

itBOMMENT OF PERFECT®
n-DEWAR’S whisky
107 Kent street, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
sr
Ruston’s Positive Valve
Gear Steam Engines.
For the Heaviest Duty.
535 Kent Street, Sydney, ,
AND
486 Collins Street, Melbourne,
3.A. Agent: C. G. DELAND, Bowman’s Bldgs., Adelaida.
HOB
PIONEER
LEATHER BELTIN6
Guaranteed.
J. C. Ludowici <& Son , Ld.
117 YORK STREETSYDNEY.
*
Take it back
! must have
UTTON’ 5
sh
HAMS ®
bacon.
CHUBB'S
WITH THE SMALLEST OF KEYS.
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets is
recommended by numerous doctors as being
• nutritious and invigorating for the diges-
:
f
hf
df
fo, INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially-prepared Tablets acts most
'beneficially when taken daily after meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
oUV. 1 _ ,
Ujb-fajttfLr (4M &\*o^(jU&
Ce %£s -fast*
A
4
A*
P J2>
V'
A
6
V
K
3
<s>
<o
£
Money advanced upon all Securities at Reasonable
Rates of Interest.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
THIS COMPANY WAS FORMED TO SBPPBESS USURY.
And at MELBOURNE, BRISBANE and NEWCASTLE.
' .
w
ƒh
STOC
D FOR
SIMPSON BROTHERS, Sole Australian Representatives, 32 8 34 Clarence Street, Sydney.
YOU SHOULD
ROOF WITH MALTHOID
The Roofing' of the Century.
EASY TO HANDLE. SIMPLE TO LAY. EVERLASTING IN WEAR.
THE PARAFFINE PAINT COMPANY, CH ALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
HOPPER WAGGONS.
ROAD-MAKING PLANTS
A SPECIALTY.
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY
g
AW.
THE* CLYDE
ENGINEERING
Locomotive Builders,
General, Mining and
Agricultural
Engineers.
Bridge Builders.
ECONOMY
ĝf
v
ili
SIMPLICITY
LTD** 63
fgĵ
A Freadi savant says that t&e great value of a mineral water lies
DEWHURST 8 HAI
i.
The Bulletin
Vol. 32.—N0. 1622.1
[Thursday, March 16, 1911.
Registered at the General Poet Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


cj ĥ
r PAPER EDITION, 3s. 6d.; posted, 4s. 2d.
Chief Editors :
F. A. Todd, 8.A., Ph.D., University of Sydney.
J. G. Uafcisaiai, M.A., LL. 8., University of Melbourne.
CLOTH EDITION, 65.; posted, 6s. 9d.
Chirp Musical Editors :
Prof. Franklin Peterson, Mus. Bac., Univ. of Melbourne.
£».C.0., City of Sydney Organist.
ASSISTED BY OTHER DISTINGUISHED MUSICIANS.
Containing Ifil Songs, Words and Music, including about 66 o! the beet Australian and New Zealand Student
Sengs; alee, Sengs of the Chief Schools and Colleges in Australia and New Zealand, and a number of Australasian
Songs by Kendall, Lawson, Paterson and others, many now first published with music, and about 80 Songs of
general interest —Grave and Gay.-
The Sengs are all pitched low enough to be sung by average untrained voices, and the accompaniments are
suffieleatty easy to be played by not very skilful pianists.
The book should have a wide appeal without as well as within the Schools .and Universities.
George Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd., 238 Pitt Street, Sydney.
AND OF ALL THE PRINCIPAL BOOK AND MUSIC SELLERS.
HUDSON’S
“EUMENTHOL JUJUBES.”
The Great Antiseptic and Prophylactic,
contains no cocaine or other poisonous
drug.
For COUGHS, COLDS, SORE THROATS,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA, ajn*i the
PREVENTION OF CONSUMPTION.
The Lancet Laboratory report is conclusive evidence
«f the value of “ Bamenthcl Jujubes as an Antiseptic."
The Lancet says :—“ Proved to be as Elective
tact erici dally as is creosote.”
fgx g
A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
C. The Branchial
Tabes of a dis-
sected Lung.
D. A Lobe of one
of the Luaga.
HUDSDN’S
\ *
tke Aust
SoM by all Chemists, pest free on reoelpt of 1/6 stamps.
CHEMICAL 08MPANY, LTD., 19 York Street, SYDNEY.
Australian States, New Zealand, aad at 320 Regent Street, London.
Agencies in all
The RED PAGE
YESTERE’EN.
Yestere’en, yestere’en, ere tbe dusk and the dew,
A brown bird was singing,
A white bird was winging,
The woodland was green and the heavens were
blue.
On the wayside about us laughed many a flower—
\Not poppies or roses;
No garden encloses
The blooms that we plucked in that radiant hour.
Red of leaf, gold of leaf they laughed through the
green;
It was all a wide wonder—
The blue skies, and (under
The skies) the sweet evening of shadow and sheen.
“Choose now,” sang a bird high aloft, “and be
wise,
For life is a river
That flows on forever,
And steals the hair’s gold and the light of the
eyes.”
Yestere’en, yestere’en, in the still, golden air
If Love was audacious,
The bee was rapacious,
And red lips are sweet as red blossoms, I swear.
My month sought your mouth, as a bee seeks a
flower,
Full-hearted and splendid ;
Sure love is intended
When color and music make drowsy the hour.
All the world, all of life, all of love grew com-
plete
As thus, in a rapture
Of triumph and capture,
I held you—blood thrilling, and Heav’n at my
feet.
Yestere’en, yestere’en, when the high skies were
blue,
A brown bird was singing,
A white bird was winging.
The honey-bee feasted, and love took his due.
RODERIC QUINN.
Wallace’s View of Life
A few years ago Alfred Russell Wallace
published Man’s Place in Nature, in whieh
he drew an imaginary line around the uni-
verse, found the solar system to be at the
centre of the whirling worlds, this planet the
only place in the system whereon the condi-
tions necessary for the development of life
were possible, and Man to be Earth’s choicest
product. Therefore man was the Top Notch
of Creation, and the Universe was made for
man. This was substantially the same be-
lief as that held in the days when the world
was flat—with scientific trimmings.
In The World of Life (Dymock’s), Wal-
lace has supplemented that argument with a
quantity of evidence to support the hypo-
theses that life implies a creative Power,
that there must be a directive Mind at the
back of Things, and an ulterior Purpose to
which the whole circus is evolving. This
is virtually Paley’s Evidences brought up to
date; the abandoned argument from design
to a Designer rehabilitated and sent forth
with the prestige of a great scientist’s
name.
The work that Wallace has done on the
Amazon and the Malay Archipelago, in ex-
plaining the theory which he lit upon at the
same time as Darwin, and in advocacy of
Land Nationalisation, entitle his opinions on
any subject to respect. The scientist, how-
ever, is as liable as anyone to go astray when
he leaves the phenomena of force and mat-
ter, and speculates about the void. Lom-
broso was undone by Eusapia Palladino, and
Eusapia’s name is now mud. Wallace has
a big streak of sentimentalism, which led
him into a belief in spooks, and towards the
close of a long life he looks into the future
from the heart and not from the intellect.
In the World of Life he asserts that
Nature is not eruel, pain is a necessity of
complex life for which we should be grate-
ful, this is the best of worlds, and man is on
the move up to the angels. No doubt
Spehcer was wrong when, in First Prin-
ciples, he attempted to define the Unknow-
able in terms of the then Unknown. Wal-
lace, with a faith which is beyond argu-
ment, looks back upon life and sees that it
is good, and fills the Unknown with a hier-
archy of angels and archangels.
It should be said that the chapters in
which Wallace reviews the distribution of
species, touches on heredity (accepting Weis-
mann’s theory of germinal selection, and
blowing out Mendelism on the way), ex-
plains the marking of birds and mammals
for purposes of recognition, and tbeir color-
ing for protection are full of interest to tbe
general reader. His evidence is fresb, and
the commentary simple. Some passages are
quoted from Seebohm’s work on Arctic birds
to justify tbe existence of mosquitoes,
which flourished on the Tundra in clouds
that darkened the sun. Gulex damnabilis
in myriads may be necessary for tbe support
of birds, but why should they also be an in-
fernal pest to the lords of creation?
The Prophet Gum
It is characteristic of man that he should
be always trying to square the circle and
account for the unaccountable. To the im-
partial observer theories about the Begin-
ning and the End have the same attraction
as other creations of the imagination. Wal-
lace accumulates large stores of fact on the
edge of the void, to make a jumping-off
place. Theo. Gum, like a spider, spins a
bridge into the future from within him-
self.
While Russell Wallace is flattering the
whole human race, Theo. Gum makes a
special bid for Australian favor. Wallace
is a mere scientist turned spiritualist, Gum
i 3 a prophet. Gum not only tells us the
way to the Millennium, but gives us God’s
Plan of the Millennium ( Worker Print,
Sydney). And Gum assures us that Austra-
lia is the most favored of all nations. The
Millennium will begin in South Australia
(already famous for its piety) by an Act
of Parliament making the hours of labor so
short that it will be necessary to employ
every hand. Thus poverty will be abol-
ished. The other States will follow South
Australia’s example, then America; but the
Old World will be reserved for wrong-doers.
War will be abolished on this side, the
cursed drink will go, gambling will cease,
gaols be emptied, and the duration of life
increased. While the millennial sheep wax
fat and prosper, they will be protected
from the wicked goats of the Old World
until, after a few thousand years, Arma-
geddon arrives, and the whole world is
washed white.
Australia is to be the centre of the New
World, and the Federal Capital will be in
the centre of Australia. In one respect
Gum is disappointing. He says there will
be over-land and under-sea railways con-
necting London with Australia —“except for
600 miles of water between Timor and Port
Darwin.” To boggle at a mere 600 miles
in the days of the millennium betrays a
leek of confidence. Otherwise he does not
falter. His pamphlet sets forth the plans
and specifications of the Millennium with
clearness and brevity; and it would be well
for King O’Malley to call the Prophet Gum
into consultation before committing himself
to any foolishness regarding Yassberra.
Gum deserves honor in his own country,
for not only does he tell Australia that she
is to be the millennial Eden; but he pre-
dicts that tbe Referenda next April will be
carried. Besides, he says: “All the writers
of the two Testaments are on the earth
to-day, walking about in the flesh. I my-
self wrote the Book of Psalms.”
The University Song Book
It has come at last. Four years ago it
was only a vague idea in the minds of a
few graduates. A board of editors was ap-
pointed. They sat upon*the idea and went
to much tronbie in order to obtain material
wherewith it might take shape and get born.
Then clothing was found for it and orna-
ments provided; and now it toddles bravely
into tbe public gaze as The Australasian
Students’ Song Book (G. Robertson and
Co.).
It is a volume of 284 pages and com-
prises 161 songs, with the music for most
of them. “The accompaniments, neatly all
of which are new, are almost without excep-
tion simple enough to be played by only
moderately skilled musicians.”
Nearly half of the songs are old stagers
like “Auld Lang Syne,” “The Bay of Bis-
cay,” ‘Cornin' thro’ the Rye,” and the in-
evitable “God Save.” We miss “The Death
of Nelson,” “The Holy City,” “Little Mary, ’
“Yip-i-addy,” and about 3785 others which
have as good claims as most of those in-
cluded in the general section. The preface
states that the Copyright Act stopped some
of them. However, the editors deserve
thanks for supplying the full text and
music of “I’ve lost my Doggie,” and the
deathless ditty which begins:
Mary had a William goat, William goat, William
goat,
Mary had a William goat whose stomach was lined
with zinc.
Chorus: Wheompte doodle, doodle-doo, doodle-
doo, doodle-doo—
Whoompte doodle-doodle-doo whose
stomach was lined with zinc.
The gifted author of this effort, which, it
is said, rouses the undergrad, soul to ec-
stasy, is not named; nor does Ben Jonson
get any advt. for his comparatively tame
lines “To Celia,” though in most cases the
words and music are credited to their re-
spective authors.
There are some new translations by E. R.
Holme, F. A. Todd, li. R. Garran, and Enid
Derham, of good German songs, and the
volume opens with the text of “Gaudeamus”
—also from Germany, where students since
the days of the Goliardi have been facile
song makers.
The first and important half of the book
is composed of University / anthems and
songs, school songs, and a few other songs
by Australian authors, such as Lawson’s
“When Your Pants Begin to Go,” and Ken-
dall’s “Song of the Cattle Hunters”—the
latter a quaint item even for this miscel-
lany. The Melbourne ’Varsity Anthem has
the advantage of being short, and its chorus
may be given in full:
Toujours, toujours,
Pour Bacchus et les amours !
Yap, yap, yap, tra, la, la, la, la,
Yap, yap, yap, tra, la, la, la, U,
Yap, yap, yap, fcra, la, la, la, la,
Pour Bacchus et les amours !
What Bacchus is doing in that galley of pie-
bald puperell does not appear. Perhaps it’s
a misprint for Barkis!
“Cras Nobis,” by Enid Derham, of Mel-
bourne, is one of the best of the Australian
songs in the collection. The air is that of
“The Boatman,” and these are some of the
words:
The day is dawning, the ocean calls us,
Too long we linger upon the shore;
But net together we face the morrow,
0 friends, farewell now for evermore !
Alma Mater, O kindest mother !
Light is breaking, we must away ;
Though one go one way and one another,
We’ll think of thee at the close of day.
And eyes we know not shall watch the compass,
And hands we know not shall set the sail;
But thou hast taught us and thou hast wrought us,
And hearts of thine shall not lightly fail.
J. Le Gay Brereton supplies a couple of
lyrics and a comic song. There are lively
verses for Commemoration Day by C. K.
Allen, and a witty “ ’Varsity Cookery Book”
by L. H. Allen; besides good singing lines
by W. P. Reeves, Mary Colborne-Veel. Annie
Rentoul, J. P. Pickburn, H. E. Whitfield
and others.
It would be unreasonable to hope for a Gil-
bert or a Sullivan amongst the Australian
contributors. The local flavor in their
work will, however, give an interest to the
book for others besides students. It is the
first collection of the kind, and may lead to
better things.
«.
The Rev. J. J. Malone, of Melbourne,
prints his notes of travel from Australia to
Egypt and Palestine as The Purple East
(W. P. Linehan, Melb., 3/6). Though born
in Ireland, the author’s spectacles are Aus-
tralian, and his view of the landmarks on
the well-worn track is therefore interesting
The reader finds here a good deal more than
diluted Baedeker and the natural remarks
of a clergyman about sacred places. At the
beginning of the book we get a tribute to
Longfellow. Then comes a discussion of
half-a-dozen Australian poets. The work
of Daley (whom he speaks of as Australian
born) is said to show “a straining after ef-
fect,” “a want of clearness and complete-
ness”! J. B. O’Hara receives a glowing
eulogy; Lawson and others more discreet
praise. Father Malone has read a great
deal of verse, and his writing is a mosaic of
quotations. Some of them are printed im
correctly, and the poets’ names also suffer—
“Brownson,” “Daly,” “Domatt,” “Patter-
son,” for example. The fault of his style
is that the imagery is seldom his own. His
memory readily supplies a line from some
poet, or phrase already too familiar, afid
that which is a pleasure when used in mod-
eration becomes a vice. This is a pity, for
Father Malone has sometimes written well.
His pamphlets on Kendall and Gordon are
the most just and eloquent appreciations of
the poets which have been printed.
* * * *
As' history Empire Builders in Australia,
by Edith Ralph (Fisher Unwin), has no
particular value. It is a popular account
of the foundation of New South
Wales, Victoria, and South Australia, the
exploration and pioneering work of the early
days, together with some information about
the aborigines and the country generally.
Her authorities are not always the best, and
a number of errors of detaii appear. Tbe
book, however, may be of service in Britain
and other countries, where ignorance of Aus-
tralia prevails, as it tries to dispel some
long-established misconceptions, and to make
the country appear reasonably attractive to
white people.
A Polish Novel
The fair land of Poland still lives in
literature, by virtue of the powerful
novels of Henryk Sienkiewicz. The sen-
sation which Curtin’s translation of
Quo Vadis made in America and Britain
will be remembered*—it was as if a new
planet had swum into the ken of fiction
readers. Since then most of Sienkie-
wicz’s other work has appeared in Eng-
lish, and the historical romances of Polish
and Russian life —With Fire and Sword,
The Deluge and The Knights of the Cross
—advanced his reputation with discern-
ing readers, though they did not attain
large circulations. The vigorous imagi-
nation which kept large groups of figures
in adventurous action is akin to that of
Dumas, and his novels of domestic life in
Poland, though without the swift rush of
events, have greater depth and better
characterisation.
The latest of these is Whirlpools trans-
lated by Max Drezmal (Werner Laurie).
The principal interest is in the love
affair of Ladislaus, a nobleman with a
highly emotional nature. In the zroun
around him are some attractive charac-
ters .and m the background is a discon-
tented peasantry making whirlpools in
which the author seems to fear Poland
wiil be submerged. Apparently he regards
socialistic agitation, as a mistake while
Russian oppression continues. One chamr'.
ter likens the Socialists to
The ants which wrangled with and bit the
working ants while the ant-eater was lying on the
ant-hilland swallowing them by thousands.
The Socialist makes a reply in kind to
the cultured man of words:
You are continually speaking in aphorisms, but
fortunately aphorisms are like paper lanterns
hung on the trees of dialectics ; in the dark they
can be seen, in the broad daylight they are ex-
tinct.
In harmony with the patriot’s view of
his distressed country, the story ends in-
tragedy and despair. Its principal value
to the foreigner is as a picture of present-
day life in a country about which little
is known; but a Potisn novelist cannot
hope to capture many English readers
when he handles such jaw-cracking names
as Krzycki, Wlocek, Szremski, etc.
•
“Pollio”: The literary event of the cen-
tury has happened in London, and the Red
Page gave us no warning! London, my
friends, has discovered the Australian poets,
and has spent an evening with them. The
programme was preceded by a dinner at the
Holborn Restaurant. When the guests
were fortified to bear the shock, the chair-
man regretted the unavoidable absence of
George H. Reid, and added that some of
the prettiest things that had ever been writ-
ten had been written by Australian poets.
Mr. Douglas Sladen, inspired by this deli-
cate allusion to his famous lines,
The baby was better and more cheerful
And condensed milk seemed to agree with it.
then declared that Kendall was a far greater
poet than Gordon, and wrote all his best
poems in honor of Mr. Henniker Heaton’s
mother. A beauty actor next recited ex-
tracts from Kendall, Lawson, Gordon, Ogil-
vie, Grant Hervey (get up and bow,
Grant!), and 0. C. Cabot (no speech,
please), while a lady indulged in Kendall
and Patterson (sic). The last remark is
correctly spelt—at least, it’s spelt in the
way I want.
Finally, Mr. Douglas Sladen—there is no
mention of an encore, but 1 suppose there
was one —announced that Gordon was a dis-
tant cousin of General Gordon of Khaitoum.
So now it’s all right: our poets, or some
of them at least, are in Society. The
others, who may want to get there, know
the way; if they can’t be distant cousins of
Lord Kitchener, all they have to do is to
write a poem in honor of Mr. Henniker
Heaton’s mother’s son. Mr. 0. C. Cabot
will oblige.
•
Frank Brangwyn, by Walter Shaw-
Sparrow, a lavishly illustrated monograph,
breathes a grave and refined enthusiasm.
Sparrow evidently loves the artistic Titan
who painted The Buccaneers with the sun-
light in his soul. He describes his art with
a gentle rapture, scarcely concealed in his
orderly prose.
His work considered, separately and as a whole,
comes within the great province of decoration,
where painting is ol>edient to an ordered scheme of
color and line required by some architectural
setting; obedient in a big and aspiring way, as
music bears obedience to counterpoint and har-
mony, or as buildings answer to the control of
their sites and rational plans.
After that early pronouncement Sparrow
gives details of the artist’s~iife and of his
youthful associations with William Morris.
Also, he discourses on the famous pictures
that filled Ernest Renan with prudent de-
light. Some of the pictures reproduced
surprise you with their almost voluptuous
virility.
The peculiar magic of Brangwyn’s craft is
that he can dignify the common and epicise
the lowliest of human activities. His fresco,
Modern Commerce in the Royal Exchange,
London, will stamp him as the artist apostle
of muscular energy. In it he has symbolised
the poetry of Labor like a reverent painter
of the Middle Ages. It is a great work of
romance and movement, suggesting that he
wielded his brush to heavenly music.
Sparrow points out that Brangwyn. has
never been trivial, trite or merely effeminate.
He has never depicted high Society de-
pressed by its ennuis and tiny despairs. He
has never painted queens of powder and
rouge, or the waxen weariness of drawing-
room teas. On the contrary, he has pre-
ferred to picture big endeavors and open day
—bluff, brown pirates and golden afternoons.
And this leads one to the conclusion that if
there is a gospel in his pictures, it is a gospel
disclosed in heroic imperatives. Each can-
vas would seem to be thundering the
message: “Be resolute, be brave; and,
above all, be strong ! ”
JEAN SIBI.


ik
w aae
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ for AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS.
OHIO ENSILAGE CUTTERS.
OHIO Blower Ensilage Cutters are offered in three
sizes, to suit all requirements. Every part is built
strong and rigid—the castings heavy and the construc=
tion perfect. The self=feed mechanism is excellent.
Large capacity, up to 15 tons an hour
on cut. Required horse=power,
5 to 16. Direct drive construction.
OHIOS cut finer and more even,
making better quality silage than any
other machine.
-.7 1
*sSss3*B» **'"< '*» il, *wBti' r i ijih;
OHIO Monarch Self-Feed Ensilage Cutter, No. 14.
Complete with Blower and Steel Truck. Price, £4B 10s.
Ohio Monarch Self-Peed Ensilage Cutter, No. 14, with Blower Elevator.
S-pwtM* to 15 tons per hour. Steam power required—B to 10 horse, B. H. P. Speed—
b&O to <OO revolutions per minute. Pulley,—L2in. x Bin., leather covered. With four
•lu £ mves ’ cuts i in - and Tin. Weight-15001b. Complete, on Steel Truck,
with Blower covered Pulley and Distributor, but no Pipe. Price, .£4B 10s.
n . n V, . a I va n i sed Pipe, in 6ft. lengths. Weight, 41b. to foot, 3s. 3d. per foot.
Cutting Kmves, 11s. each. Shredder Blades, 14s. each. P
OHIO Monarch Self-Feed Ensilage Cutter, with
Blower Elevator, No. 12.
Similar to illustration No. 14. Capacity, Bto 10 tons per hour «. engine power
required, 6 to 8 horse; speed, 650 to 700 revolutions per minute; pulley, 12in. x Bin.
leather covered ; with four 12in. knives, cuts, fin., fin., fin. and lin. ; weight, 14501 b!
Complete with Blower, covered Pulley and-Distributor, but no Pipe.. Price, £32.
lOin. Galvanised Pipe, in 6ft. lengths per ft. Weight, 41b. to ft.
3s. 3d. per ft.
Cutting Knives, 11s. each. Shredder Blades, 11s. each.
These machines we always send out fitted with four knives, but can be worked with two.
The OHIO Farming Implements illus-
trated on this page possess advan-
tages not to be secured In many other
makes, and we invite an intelligent
comparison. The OHIO name stands
for the highest-grade construction,
simplicity and maximum efficiency.
OHIO Standard Feed and Ensilage Cutter, No. 11.
Price, with Blower, £2O.
... °, H, ° standard Feed and Ensilage Cutter, with Blower, as illustrated No 11 with four
Urn kmves, cuts Jin,, Jin. and lm. Complete with Blower and Hood, but no Pipe Price £2O
knives,' figI a 6d. e each P . e ’' lengths> lB ‘ 8d - P er *o°t- Shredder Blades, interchangeable with
This machine is sent out fitted with four knives, but can be worked with two.
Thi3 T a h ddition h? N °;, ll , Feed ? nd Ensi,a S e Cutter, equipped with Blower Elevator.
w^St^^6'^ n ° me6t a ffr ° Wl " E demand for a Blower Cutter to be operated
all kinds of drv £pll the -!" 08t P°P ular s j ze io / general farm use. It is adapted for cutting
but ]i?ht DowJ t n d n,n it ensilage, is strongly and durably built, has large capacitv, and requires
but slight power to run. An auger conveys the cut material into the Blower. 4
v.- The^ ranl e throughout is of the best hardwood, rigidly put together. The knives are made of a
high carbon steel, are carefully tempered and very durable They are securely bolted to solid knife
artlonrand a we7l\ab y b ffl ta Th; iB -° f Ste , e >- * diametir" The shaft beaHngs
babb J ted * The feeding mechanism is excellent. As the upper feed roller rises to
Its use enables the operator to stop theTed'instantly ‘ S ° f ° pe,ation -
The machine will cut and elevate from 3to 5 tons of'ensilasre per hour Power 4to fi hnrsp
power; B.H.P. Speed—6so to 700 revolutions per minute. Weight—76olb. Pulley—l2in. x 4in. face.
EHPIRE STEEL CULTIVATOR
ĝ gh
We specially recommend this Cultivator,
as with the attachments it can be used
for cultivating almost any crop.
Umpire All-Steel Cultivator, with attachments
weight 901 b., 34/6.
Extra Tines, ljin., ljin., 2in., 2|in.
Sweeps ... lOin., 1 /-; 12in.,'i/l
Fair of Hilling Board Attachments, as illustrated
Extension Pieces to make into 7 Tine Cultivator
without hilling board;
... ... 6d. each
; and 14in., 1/2 each
... 10/6 pair
... 7/6 pair
THETIORGAN PATENT
SPADING HARROW.
We have secured the
exclusive right to sell the
Morgan Spading Harrow
for New South Wales, and
our experience of its sale
has only confirmed the
opinion, form-
e d after
special inves-
tigation and
extended in-
quiry, that it
is the best
implement for
pu 1 verising
the soil.
gh
Morgan Spading Harrow, fully rigged with whifdetrees, neck yoke,
cleaners and transport wheels.
A, 3ft. t one horse, 16in. spades
A, 4ft., light, two horses, Ifiin. spades ...
A, sft., light,” two horses, I6in.' spades ...
A. 6ft., standard, two horses, 16in. spades
C, 6ft., heavy, two horses, 18in. spades ...
O, 7ft., two or three horses, 18in. spades
C, Bft., three horses, 18in. spades
Weight, 2!)01b., £5 17s. 6d.
Weight, 3501 b., £6 10s.
Weight, 4001 b., .£6 12s. 6d.
Weight, 4501 b., £7 6s.
Weight, 5001 b., £8 2s. 6d.
Weight, 5501 b., £8 12s.
Weight, 6001 b., £8 17s. 6dJ
Sets of Discs, to fit to 3ft., sft. and 6ft. A, so as to immediately convert them
into Disc-Harrows 3ft., 445.; sft., 545. 6d. ; 6ft., 625. 6d.
Pair o£ Seeder Boxes, to attach to 6ft. Harrow . 93s 6d
Reverse Irons Bs. 6d. per set. I Boxes ... ... ... .'. 2s. 6d,
Sandbands ... ss. | Extra Spades ... 16in., Is. 9d. ; 18in., 2s. each.
New Attachment, to do away with the ordinary pole, making the Spading
Harrow turn round in its own length, and saving the chafing of the pole on
the horse’s side and neck 255. complete.
r
# nl r '
S ™'"StU//7WMiYZZ Ijim—■ »i«aiiSeSS”"»<ii 'i'l** -
ILLUSTRATED
PRICE LISTS
POST FREE on
APPLICA TION.
The Matthews
New Univer-
sal Excel
Harrow
Cultivator.
Weight 631 b.
For fine work among small plants where itis-desired simply to loosen and pulverise the soil, this
style of cultivator is unsurpassed. Adjustable and reversible steel teeth, diamond shaped, may be
used either end up, and may be set either straight or slanting backward or forward. One end of
each tooth is cut plain, while the other end is curved and forged as illustrated. We recommend this
implement as the strongest and best Harrow Cultivator made. Price 31s. 6d.
HORDERN & SONS,
Only Universal
Providers,
Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau.
Full Particulars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Climate Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Crown Land suitable for Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on
Better Terms than elsewhere in Australia.
Corner of Queen and T. C. TROEDSON,
George Streets, Brisbane, General Director.
Sydney Branch Office at 116 Pitt Street.—Local Director: A. MESTON.
COOLS AND REFRESHES THE SKIN
hggh ghgh
Invaluable
for fhe SKIN,
in HOT !
or COLD
climates.
Removes all
IRRITATION
-andTAN.
ĝhggghhh
Lait
Peg.,
Sole
Makers
M.BEETHAM &SON,
CHELTENHAM,ENGLAND.
Gives a
Perfect
COMPLEXION
Soft
as
Velvet.
LAIT LAROLA
VERY SOOTHING AFTER SHAVING
Congo
ROOFING
V
CONGO ROOFING is everything a good roofing should be. It is air-proof, climate-
proof, water-proof, storm-proof, snow-proof, wind-proof, and proof against every-
thing else which can damage a roofing.
If you are having trouble with your present roof, cover it with Congo and your troubles
will be over.
If vou want proof of our claims, ask us to send you a Free Sample, and when you see
how tough and strong and well-made it is, you will believe that we are not claiming too
much for it. Send at once.
Congo Damp Course for making foundations damp-proof.
AdKNTS• Noves Bros. (Sydney), Ltd., Sydney; Noyes Bros. (Prop.). Ltd.,
Melbourne • Brabant & Co., Brisbane; Walter Reid & Co., Rockhampton ;
Harioid Coiton & Co., Ltd., Adelaide ; Millar’s Karri & Jarrah Co., Ltd., Perth ;
William Hart & Sons, Launceston ; T. A. Tabart, Jr., Hobart, Tasmania.
A
EVERY CYCLIST
should send for a free copy
of the special Australasian
edition of the
B. S. A.
HANDBOOK
It contains full particulars and
illustrations of the world
famous
b.s.a. cycle fittings
EADIE COASTER HUBS
EADIE TWO-SPEEDS
B.S.A. THREE-SPEEDS
B.S.A. FREE-WHEELS
Each page is full of interest
and every rider should read
the valuable inform., tion
regarding B. S. A. TRADE
MARKS and TRANSFERS.
Write to
D. Y. RENNIE
(Representing B.S. A. Co. Ltd.)
6 Stock Exchange Building,
MELBOURNE
y
ft
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ UNIVERSAL BICYCLE.
Built of genuine B.S.A. Parts with EADIE Two=speed Coaster Hub.
Free Wheel on both gears, and Dunlop Tyres. As ridden by
FRANCIS BIRTLES. £l2 10s. Write ior Price List, post free.
Anthony Hordern ®, Sons,
Only Universal Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849. For Life Assuraace on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security ot Freehold or Leasehol
City or Suburban Properties, or o
V t
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
nf Government Debentures. Inscribed Stock of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand IPR- AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent! of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors The Hon. A. VV. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman : Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman: Benjamin
Short Esq. : The Hon. James Burns. M.L.C. : The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.; The Hon. F.E. Winehcombe, M.L.C.;
Adrian Krio'x Esq.. K.C. General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece. F.LA., P.F.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. H - w - APPERLY, Secretary.
ĥgh gh
1. A Tearing, Hacking Cough?
2. A Stuffed-up Chest?
3. A Teasing Irritation in your Throat?
4. A Difficulty in Breathing ?
5. A Cold in Your Head ?
6. A Fit of Sneezing ?
J. A Pain in Your Chest?
8. A Shortness of Breath ?
9. “Only a Bit of a Cold?”
HAVE
YOU?
IF YOU HAVE, TAKE
HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE
THE GRANDEST REMEDY FOR
COUGHS & COLDS
"A STITCH IN TIME SAVES NINE.”
FROM ALL CHEMISTS AND STOREKEEPERS, AND
W. G. HEARNE & CO., Ltd., Geelong, Vic.
N S.W. Branch Office: 5*2 George Street, Sydney.
wm
w.
CAPT. H. E. U. BURKE.
An African
Letter to ...
CLEMENTS TONIC
Testimony received from Capt. H. E. U. BURKE, late
3rd King’s African Rifles, British E. Africa, and
Assistant Master, Sydney Grammar School, College
Street, Sydney. States his opinion of what Clements
Tonic can do in cases of Fever, Wasting Illness, Loss
of Sleep or Appetite, Indigestion, or Convalescence
after severe illness.
CLEMENTS TONIC LTD.
“ The Cottage,” 250 Ocean Street,
Paddington, 17/1/Tl.
“ I have benefited much by your medicine, principally in Africa
where it was first given to me by an Australian, after a severe attack of
malarial fever. I was taken to Nairobi, the centre of Govt, in British
E. Africa, in a state of collapse. The greatest care had to be taken
during mv convalescence.
“My Australian friend gave me three bottles. It improved my
appetite, creating desire for food, the beginning of a general restoration
to health, transforming a condition of extreme debility to one of
splendid strength.
“ I was so impressed with the medicine that I recommended it to
my brother officers. I have cause to be very grateful to this excellent
medicine, and, as I am now in Sydney, I am only fulfilling a duty in
testifying to its worth. You may use this letter as you like.”
( Signed) H. E. U. BURKE (Capt.).
♦
This testimony is of a high order, and proves the singular health-creative properties this >™?/hcine
nossesses. Persons restored to health of such serious ailments as Insomnia, Bra n-fag, Detective
Memory Melancholia, Nerve-breakdown, Constipation, Broken Best, Indigestion Anaemia or Poor
Blood, Biliousness and Sick Headache, write only for the public benefit.
All Stores and Chemists sell CLEMENTS TONIC.


What
About
That 1
Dandruff?,
£53
m
. s
There is just this much about it:
Dandruff is a germ disease, is
most untidy, annoying, and leads
to baldness. When chronic, it
is very stubborn, but surely
yields to thorough and energetic
treatment. All germs must be
destroyed, the scalp must be
restored to health. Here is the
remedy: Ayer’s Hair Vigor.
Ask your doctor about using it.
Ayer’s Hair Vigor
DOES NOT COLOR THE HAIR
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mast., U. S. A.
TEN DAYS’ FREE TRIAL.
j ghgh
Packed Free. All charges Prepaid to youf
Port direct from our Factory. Highest*
grade British-made MEAD
Coventry Flyers
WARRANTED FIFTEEN YEARS.
Defiance Puncture-Resisting or Dunlop
[Tyres, Coasters, Variable-Speed Gears,
l Flyer or Brook’s Saddles, etc.
ILATEST
MODELS
£3.10 t» £9
Tyres and accessories half usual prices.
AGENTS
wanted in each district. Writo
at once, using- sufficient postage,
for Free Art Catalogue and out
Special Offer on sample machine.
MEAD cycle company,
Dapt. 280. LIVERPOOL.
JAS. J. GILTINAN, Agent, 157 Clarence St., Sydney.
FOR ALL
BLOOD DISORDERS
111
H
Packets, 3d., 6d. and Is.
[2A
■ : . ;
Always \
Reliable.
The reliability of Elev Cartridges
i has been demonstrated again and
' again on range and field. To-day
Eley Cartridges are chosen by the
most critical of sportsmen in every I
quarter of the world. \
Eley Cartridges are the perfect out-
come of 82 years of ammunition-
making experience.
THE ELEY
FOURTEN
IS JUST THE
CARTRIDGE
required for use in orchards. It does not
damage the trees, the recoil is very light,
and it is specially adapted for ladies
and boys’ use. Loaded with Eley
Smekeless Powder.
Other Eley favorites include :
12-bore Eley “ PLUTO ”33 grs. Eley
Smokeless Powder and 11-16 oz.
Shot.
12-bore Eley “ ROCKET ” 42 grs.
Eley Smokeless Powder and
11-Boz. Shot.
Obtainable through all
Gunmakers and Dealers.
ELEY BROS. LTD.,
London.
BONNINCIWS WILL ANSWER YES
s
«««?“•
irish.^9 55
Sold Everywhere.
1/6 <a 2/6.
to the question is it the best ? Yes it is undoubtedly the
best Cough Remedy that skill and purest ingredients can
produce. This preparation has been curing Coughs
3nd Colds for upwards of 45 years, and although numer-
ous imitations have appeared from time to time none
have stood against “Bonnington’s’' of 40 years fame.
Bonningtons
Irish Moss.
The ideal family medicine is equally
beneficial for Adults or Children.
Mothers can give it to the little ones
with every confidence as it is entirely
free from harmful narcotics.
Do not take imitations—just ask for “BONNINGTON’S” and
see that you get it.
«5
&
OHH***?. o** 0 **
IRISH
HEALTHFUL. ECONOMICAL. CONVENIENT.
BICKFORDS Essence of Coffee,
* OUR. JACK” Brand.
Obtainable Everywhere.
Fulfils the requirements of the “ PURE FOODS” Act.
100 CUPS FOR IJG .
A. M. BICKFORD & SONS, LTD., Pitt St., Sydney; Currie St., Adelaide; Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
How French Women
Develop
15he . . .
BUST
The absence of a full,
■well-rounded bust takes
away four-fifths of a
woman s charm.
Emaciation is really one
form of disease, and the
inability to add sufficient
tissue to round out and give to the
body a symmetrical appearance
is, in most cases, evidence that
some ailment is interfering with
the digestive and assimilative
processes.
How often have you watched
the tremendous social progress of
some of your female acquaint-
ances who, though not so fortu-
nate maybe as yourself in intel-
lectual attainments, but possess-
ing charm because of an excep-
tional figure, have carried all
before them.
As the magnet draws the steel,
so the influence created by a distinctive figure
attracts man.
Let two women enter a room together, both
strangers to the assembled guests ; let one be
as pretty as a picture in the face, thin and
slight-chested ; the other full-bosomed,
gh
gh
gjhgh
well-rounded shoulders, hips developed pro-
portionately for height, and a full, rounded
(even though plain) face. Which receives
the admiration of the gathering ? She with
the pretty figure every time ! The pretty
face is a bad second.
You are not to blame for being thin ; but
if you remain thin, scrawny and undeveloped,
the blame rests entirely on your own shoulders.
Thousands of weak, nervous, run-down,
anaemic women who, when they
came to us, w r ere mere shadows
of what Nature intended them
to be, are now, as the result of
a few weeks’ proper guidance,
perfect examples of female devel-
opment —healthy, strong and
permanently restored to vigorous
womanhood.
Send 2d. stamp, and let us tell
you, free of any cost, how you
may develop your bust. We
will also send you a FREE
TRIAL SAMPLE of Treatment.
Write at once.
FALLIERE FLESH-FOOD CO.,
5 LINDEN COURT,
Cor. Castlereagh & Market Streets,
SYDNEY. [lBO5
H
ORLICK’S
MALTED MILK
At
break-
fa s t
time or
supper time
H onlJck’s.
Malted Milk is
a delicious substitute'
for tea, coffee and cocoa.'
It is prepared in a minute'
and requires no cooking, 1
FOR
ALL
TIMES
AND
ALL
y
CLIMES
For all ages, from the nursery
upwards, HopMc k’s
Malted Milk is an
ideal food-beverage,
easily digested, nour-
ishing, invigorating.
It is indispens-
able to invalids
and the aged,
and prov-
ides a full
diet in
Of all Chemists and Wholesale and Retail Stores,
&c., &c. Samples: 82“, Pjtt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Horlick'a Malted Milk Co. Slouch, Entf.
RUPTURE
Do you suffer from this complaint? No
doubt you wish to be cured without operation.
Have you grown tired 01 wearing useless
trusses ? Then send for our little book,
giving a full description of our
AUTOMATIC
Air Cushion Appliance
by means of which a permanent cure can be
effected. We positively affirm this in spite ot
the many previous disappointments yo)a may
havejtad. This appliance i« something en-
tirely new—is in fact the Best Rupture
Appliance of the Century, and to
prove this to you
WE GIVE YOU TWO DAYS TRIAL
with each appliance that we send out. Perfect
comfort and ease Irom the first day’s use. No
ste 1 bands to torture or galling pads or
leather chafing understraps. The pad is made
of soft pliable rubber, which presses gently
but firmly on the correct spot.
Full Fart'culurs Posted Free -
WINSLOW CO.,
261 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
THROW DOWN THE BOTTLE.
Cease being a curse in your home and a nuisance to
your friends. The l)evil of Drink can be banished
for ever by DR. SHAW’S ANTI-ALCOHOL (Registered
by the Govts. Vic. and N.S. W.). A harmless remedy
—can be given secretly or taken voluntarily. Advice
Free. Write or call. DR. SHAW’S ESTABLISH-
MENTS : 54 Russell Street, Melbourne; 1161 Hay
Street, Perth, W.A. [3
Waterman's
(Ideal)
Saf^^Pen
g
SEALED
WHEN OPEN.
SEALED
WHEN CLOSED.
This is the pen you should buy if you
travel, or lead an active out-door life. The
chief characteristic of this “Safety ” Model
is that it cannot leak however carried.
When dosed, one can throw it up, shake
it, turn it upside-down and still it will not
leak. Nor will it leak when open. In
all other respects it is equal to the
Waterman’s Ideal known the World over
as the Best Fountain Pen that money
can buy.
15/- and upwards. From Stationers and
Jewellers throughout the world.
L. & C. HARDTMUTH, Ltd.,
Koh-i-noor House,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
ST
MORRIS'S
IMPERIAL
.EYE,
°INTMEHT
CURES
ghgh
ħĝh
ĝĥ
gh
Michelin
Tyres.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
To-Night—Forget!
As we foreknew Lizette,
To-night we part;
An’it maybe, forget
’Tis best, sweetheart.
To-night, this still-new bliss
Enriched with years,
Begun, ends with a kiss . . .
To-morrow—tears !
You would not have me lie?
We long ago
Knew some day, you or I,
Would wish so.
Suppose ’twas you ? Well, then,
1 would forget
In strange win e arms ; but men
Are brutes, Lizette.
Or else for self-love I
Would stay you still,
Behold you fret and die,
Yet urge my will.
Were men less good than bad,
This love, Lizette,
No sweet beginning had,
Nor end to fret,
Yet life, dear love o’ mine,
More full will be
Because of this divine,
Sweet memory.
I know your thought, and so
Read you aright. . . .
“ Your life begins, but oh,
Mine ends to-night! ”
What may I say?—forget?
Begin anew ?
All men are brutes, Lizette,
Unworthy you.
But somehow good, and so
Love moves them yet;
With love they come . . . and go
For love, Lizette.
To-morrow ends the year’s
Sweet bliss, Lizette;
Let’s kiss away the tears . . .
To-night . . . forget!
N.S.W.
W. M. WHITNEY.
The Song of the Car.
The big car sings with a deep, full note, and her
cranks, as they thrust and throw,
Keep time with the lift of my lady’s throat and
the breast where the glad thoughts glow !
The miles flash past like a by gone dream—and the
souls in the speeding car
Swing out where the worlds-in the darkness gleam,
and we ride on a bolting star !
There’s a track that leads to the Milky Way
where the gods in their gladness mote;
Where the seraphim in battalions play and the
great archangels gloat!
There’s a Track up there, and we’ll race and whir
where the clouds are pink and pearled ;
But the road-hogs rush to the sepulchre with a
roar like a bursting world !
The big car rings out a joyful peal, as she whirls
on the bushland road ;
As she swings with the strength of striding steel,
and never a whip nor goad !
When the Best Girl laughs ’tis a laugh of glee
and I know by her shining eyes
That she rides on a high-speed star with me on
the Track where the Earth-car flies !
Where the big stars swing at a racing beat, and
the meteors swiftly whirl,
We are rolling forth in a joy complete—just me
and the One True Girl!
And there is no doubt and there is no care—
there’s only the booming car,
And the wind-won touch of my lady’s hair, and
her eyes where the love-lights are 1
The big car sings—and to hear her song, as she
speeds in her strength and pride,
Is to hear the world as it swings along where the
suns and the big stars stride !
She sings from the core of her beating heart, and
the sound of her voice to me
Is a chant from a soul that hath dwelt apart in a
far land fair and free 1
And the big car knows when the Girl’s on board—
the Girl with the sun-flecked hair ;
For she sings like the saints that are round the
Lord on the Shore where the trumpets blare !
And the Best Girl knows that the car knows Her,
and the car and the Girl know me ;
When the big car sings, all the meteors stir, and
we race by the Golden Sea 1
When the big car sings—and she sang last night
v with a deep, full note I know ;
’Twas the Song of the Car—of her own delight in
her strength and her thrust and throw !
And the Best Girl said that the car had sung of
the shining Days to Be ;
Of the force and glee of a Land that clung to its
lover—the leaping sea !
When the years flash past, and are like a dream,
we shall mount on a speeding star ;
And the Best Girl’s eyes in the Night shall gleam
as we drive where the big worlds are !
There’s a Track up there, where Best Girl’s lips
shall meet in a kiss close-curled ;
But the Road-Hogs sink in a swift eclipse with a
roar like a blown-out world !
VICTORIA.
GRANT HERVEY.


Combination Couch and Bed.
CHANGED INSTANTLY.
Size when open, 4ft. x 6ft. 7in.
< H i < t » « «. *.<n-
ISfegA. 'V *V-> ■*■ *.' V I( *!
HjUjlgb* rV /■ •«■ V * A *> V > J
r\vy^>»vV.y\y S> \.
CLOSED AS COUCH.
OPEN AS DOUBLE BED.
Cannot get out of order; is
exceptionally strong and durable.
Just the thing for offices,
small rooms, or where an extra
bed is required.
Invaluable for hotels, boarding-
houses, coffee palaces, and similar
establishments.
Can be had fitted with box, to
act as linen press. Three pieces
of furniture in one.
Elegantly upholstered.
PRICES:
In Cretonne, £4 4s. ; in
Tapestry or American Leather,
£4 155.; in Rexine, £5 Ss. and
£5 15s. With Box, 20s. extra.
Can only be obtained from
MARCUS CLARK & Co. Ltd.
SYDNEY.
gh
LIQUEUR.
jh
Richardson Cushion Frame, Anti-Jar Ball
Bearing: Roller Skates.
Used exclusively in all of the largest and most successful links in America,
and by all the Champions of the World, fast and fancy. RIOHAItrDSON
SKATES have held all World’s Records for 24 years. Write for Catalogue.
Tells how to open and operate Roller Rinks.
Richardson Ball-Bearing Skate Co., 311 Michigan Street, Chicago, U.S.A.
RICHARDSON’
CHICAGO
ess
OLD
O RKNfV-
-2*
SCO
ORKNEY
Real
13
mm-
i U
AGENTS:
SYDNEY-Tooheys, Lid. .
MELBOURNE—J. R. JoWS & CD.
BRISBANE—EIIiott, Donaldson
& Douglas, Ltd.
ADELAIDE—Lord & Heseltino.
HOBART-John Ferguson & Co.
LAUNGESTON—Jonn McKenzie & Co.
THE WHISKY
FOR THE HOME
HLILs
K*
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
... SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes front
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF, from 11s. per day, or apartments:
may he secured separately by the day from 3s. Gd. andi
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted I
on application to , The Manager.
Now,
retail prices are largely governed by the method of merchandising the goods*
Closely interwoven with our policy of quality, sincerity and integrity are Cash
Principles, which mainly account for the lowness of our prices and the superiority of our
stocks* With ready money available in big sums* we are welcomed in the most exclusive
manufactories, and thus our silverplated ware is always better in design, and costs less*
We countenance neither debts nor middlemen of any kind* Be sure of the quality* Be certain
of a saving* The “Treasure House ” merits
your patronage* Some specially attractive
Toilet Ware
H 7676 —Solid Silver Frog- Fin
Cushion, 8/6
m
F72S7—Solid Silver and Cut Glass
roilet Bottle, 6iin. high, £5 ISs.
E63i>4— Sterling Silver
Mounted Manicure
Scissors, curved points,
8/6
G4S3s—Solid Silver Trinket Box, Size
5 x 3J, £4
m s -
Handsome Silver-plated Jewel Box, Satin-lined, with look and key, size 7 x 6,
high ; price £5 ss. A large selection of other designs in stock, ranging in
prices from 7/6 upwards.
G796o—Solid Silver Hair Brush, 12/6 ; with Comb, in case, 20/-
G7964—Solid Silver Hand Mirror, same Resign, 27/6
J3sol—Sterling- Silver Pearl Shgll Pin Tray, 7/6
(Kangaroo or Emu).
n
J446B—Solid Silver and Cut Glass
Powder Bo*, 10/6
G66'.)7—Sterling Silver Lavender
Salts Bottle Holder, 30/»
Stewart Dawson 8 Co
(Australia), Ltd.,
i Strand Corner, 412 George St., Sydney.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 32.—N0. 1622.
THURSDAY, MARCH 16, 1911.
Piucii 6u.
WHO HOLDS THE BLANK CHEQUE TO-DAY?
Mr Deakin said that in granting theseamendments in the Constitution they were handing over a blank cheque, ready signed, to the future Commonwealth
Government. —Daily Paper.
DEAKIN (aside): “Hush! Keep yourself hidden. They’ve forgotten that you'll go on filling in the cheque unless the Referenda are carried.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“ Australia lor the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod,
of Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mos-
man, for The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
Ltd., at the Office of the Co., 214 George-
street North, Sydney, N. S. Wales, Aus-
tralia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES: Business , 1384 Central.
Editorial, 257 City.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
I’er Annum . . .. ..£l6O
Half-yearly .. .. .. 0 13 6
Quarterly .. .. ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin
posted regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communica-
tions to be addressed to William Macleod, Manag-
ing Director.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the
paper (and, to an extent, themselves) by taking
some care as to methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, ad-
vertisements, etc.) should in no case be addressed to
the Editor, but to the Manager. To send them to
the Editor is to invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters
to anyone by name. “The Editor, The Bulletin,” is
the proper superscription for “copy.” Delay, and
even loss, is sometimes caused by addressing to per-
sons instead of officials. The person may not be
there; the official always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” col-
umn all contributions submitted, whether in the
form of Political, Social or other Articles, Verse,
Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially accept-
able), Paragraphs, Letters or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS.
when the address is specified and stamp:- are en-
closed. But no MS. will be returned, or preserved,
unless these conditions are observed. When MS. is
forwarded without stamps for return it will be un-
derstood that the copy is to be destroyed if not ac-
ceptable. Personal applications for return of MS.
cannot receive attention. The Bulletin desires,
further, those sending MS. to distinctly understand
that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea,
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any pic-
ture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
The Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on
account of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale
agents) to Victoria, West Australia, Queensland,
Tasmania and New Zealand; and on account of
Messrs. Atkinson and Co. and Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide
—at If/G per doz. nett.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British
Australasian Office, 115 High Holborn, London,
W.C.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town; Dawson and Son, Capetown; The Central
News Agency, Durban, Natal; and others.
Vancouver.— Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver
8.C.; Irvine and Forsyth, Ml Hastings Street;
Norman, Caple and Co., Stationers.
U.S.A. —Isserlis A., Seattle, Washington; Inter-
national News Agency, Los Angeles; Chicago News-
paper Agency, 170 Madison Street, Chicago.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port
Said.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Singapore. — Messrs. John Little and Co.
Aftersts’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size
6%in. x Him, will be forwarded on application.
Larger sizes can be supplied if desired.
THURSDAY, MARCH 16, 1911.
A NEW LIE, AND A POOR ONE.
A weak case calls for desperate measures;
so Australia’s apostles of the doctrine of
sitting down permanently in the same place
have raised the Home Rule cry against the
Referenda proposals. It is blandly suggested
that each of the Australian States is m
clanger of getting into the same position m
regard to the Commonwealth as Ireland is
in regard to England. And the argument is
put forward —mostly by notorious enemies
of Irish Home Rule —that every Irish
Nationalist must range himself with the
anti-Nationalists of Australia or stand con-
victed of illogical conduct. Irish patriots
who return to Australia from visiting
foreign parts, are represented as being
overwhelmed by the grim resemblance be-
tween the prospective sorrows of their
States and the existing woes of Ireland. In
short, the intelligence-insulting business
which has characterised every Tory election
campaign of recent years is in full blase
once more. The evils of Protection are no
longer mentioned, the Socialistic tiger has
been turned out to grass, the subject of
C. G. Wade’s reckless courage has been
dropped. Rational citizens are asked now
to believe that there is no difference be-
tween the governing of Australia by an all-
Australian Parliament and the governing
of Ireland by a mostly English one; that,
if the inhabitants of the Commonwealth
vote “Yes” on the 26th prox., they will
automatically drop into the present position
of the inhabitants of Munster or Kerry.
• * * *
Consider some reasons for Ireland’s un-
conquerable objection to English rule. Part
of the trouble is racial. Any time during
the past 700-and-odd years Englishmen have
been damning Irishmen, publicly and pri-
vately, for a brood of shifty, jibing, scurri-
us malcontents. During ail that time the
Irish view of the lad of the Bulldog breed
has been that he was oppressive, dogmatic
and humorless, and a congenital blunderer
where he wasn’t something worse. Of
course racial antipathy does not explain
everything. Less than half a century nas
elapsed since the Franco-Prussian war; yet
thousands of citizens of French descent in
Alsace-Lorraine have not only “forgotten
Sedan,” but are in a fair way to become
good Germans. Seven centuries of pillage,
robbery, murder, sacrilege, outrage and
sundries have, however, assisted to make
Irishmen the irreconcilables they are.
Since the day Fitz Stephen invaded Wex-
ford, sufficient Irish blood has been shed to
float the world’s navies. The establishment
of the Reformation tapped an entirely fresh
vein. Sometimes the fluid poured forth as
from a severed artery; anon, it merely
dribbled out of skulls cracked at Ulster
lairs; bur always it has been in evidence.
That the coercive spirit of Cromwell’s
day is still alive in England, and amongst
the Irish-liating residents of Ireland, was
shown only last month when the Tory
Evening News (London) reported as a
meritorious act that the principal Orange
lodge of Ulster, of which Sir Edward Car-
son, K.C. (ex-Solicitor General and Min-
ister of the Crown in the last Balfour
Administration) is President, had “invited
tenders for the supply of arms and ammuni-
tion in the event of Home Rule passing.”
Ireland is as accustomed to visits from
armed and hostile English troops as the
Australian States are to visits from English
cricketers. And it possesses the embittering
recollection of never having won a Test.
If. has made the acquaintance of more puni-
tive expeditions, in its time, than all the
missionary-swallowing islands of the Pacific
put togetner. It lias had the tail of its
coat stamped on by persons afflicted with
every variety of English, Scotch and Welsh
accents, and it has been trailed in the mud
and dust of defeat by Norman, Tudor and
Guelph sovereigns.
* " * * *
And, above everything, the government it
has had to pur up with from headquarters
lias been dreadful. Even to-day, when
England is trying desperately to do a fair
thing by Ireland—as a result of which the
Nationalist rank and file have started to
speak in a friendly fashion of English
sovereigns, while their representatives at
Westminster are losing much of their anti-
English bitterness—the inability of an alien
Parliament to understand Irish require-
ments is a matter of constant demonstra-
tion. _ The one civilised country which owns
no birth-rate problem has decreased its
population by 50 per cent, in recent years,
and its young men and girls continue to
emigrate by thousands every month. Ire-
land—the land which has given the English-
speaking world more great lawyers, states-
men and soldiers than it can count —has no
more say in the conduct of its own affairs
than Manchuria, and far less than the nigger
republic of Liberia. Not a letter-carrier or
policeman or bailiff can be appointed unless
from London. And in the House of Com-
mons, which is the only House where the
people have any sort of say, their represen-
tatives are •outnumbered by six to one.
* * * *
Now,, consider the case of Australia. No
Australian State—not even tne clamantly
dissatisfied State of N. S. Wales—has ever
been invaded by the embattled hosts of tlm
Commonwealth. in the matter of inter-
necine carnage, things have been notably
quiet here since Federation. True George
Reid intimated, some years ago, that An-
archy and* Bloodshed would arrive if the
Labor party came into power. Reid was
immediately flung out; and still Anarchy
tailed to materialise. The Labor party’s
universal service and Australian navy pro-
posals were assailed by Dreadnoughters, on
the grounds that their fulfilment would
drive members of the British Empire League
to bloodshed. Only the other day Bruce
Smith and a number of his friends foretold
the usual sanguinary trouble if their cause
was defeated. But none of these things
has ever happened, or is ever likely to
happen.. The only blood-spilling that the
Australian States have seen since they
united into a nation has been on paper or
by word of mouth. The reasons for this
stand out like lighthouses. The electors
of the Australian States —unlike the electors
of Ireland, who are unrepresented, except
in the Commons, and who are in a hopeless
minority there, have a House whose
special province it is to guard the
rights of the smaller States. So far
as a large State like N.S.W. is
concerned, it would be impossible (even
assuming both Parliaments went raving
mad and nut a demented Administration in
power) for the Commonwealth to “wrong"
it as England has wronged Ireland in the
past, without 27 N.S.W. Welshmen out of
76 Reps: arising to ask the reason why.
When it is suggested, as it has been re-
peatedly of late, that the Commonwealth
will be liable, if the Referenda questions
arc carried, to rob and otherwise wrong
all the States, the attention of scaremongers
may be drawn to the fact that the States
are the Commonwealth, and that the Com-
monwealth could do them no damage with-
out damaging itself. It is as inconceiv-
able that the Commonwealth should wrong
N.S.W. or Tasmania to gratify an evil
whim, as that the British Parliament should
devastate Kent or Yorkshire to amuse
someone in Colney Hatch Asylum. There
is no reason why the Commonwealth should
even feel like injuring one or more of its
component parts. No traditions of hate
exist here. The racial antipathies that
are still liable to manifest themselves when
a Galway man meets a London Cockney
are unthinkable in Australia, where it is
impossible to tell a Queenslander from a
native of South Australia, even beneath
the bright light of a public bar.
* * * *
It cannot be too often insisted, in iHew
of the frantic lying that is going on, time
an affirmative answer to all the Referenda
questions constitutes the irreducible mini-
mum necessary to obtain (x) the New Pro-
tection, (2) power to scotch injurious
monopolies, (3) amendment of the Federal
Arbitration Act. The Government does
not want more powers than these. And
they are all powers which 95 citizens out
of every 100 —lawyers included —believed
the Federal Parliament had until the High
Court gave its decision on the Excise Act.
It is said that they include a license _to
meddle in various purely local State affairs.
They do. Also, every shop-assistant who is
handed a five-pound note with a request for
change, is given a qualified sort of license
to bolt with the lot. But, since the law is
vigilant and stern, he rarely does it. For
the same reason Federal Ministers may be
relied on not to holt with Australian State
lights. The first insane effort on the part
of Fisher and his colleagues to sack a Vic.
policeman or interfere with the business of
a N.S.W. bottle-accumulator, would mean
rheir swift retirement into unsalaried ob-
livion —and they know it. The cry of Home
Rule for the States, as a means of propping
up the cause of reaction —even if it were
not set up by folks who have always been
rabid anti-Nationalists so far as Ireland
was concerned —would carry scant weight.
It is bogus on the face of it —a very Fiji
uncle among electioneering gags.
THE NATIONALISATION OF HEALTH.
A singular thing at the last members’ meet-
ing of the Sydney Hospital was that all
the speaker's, save a couple, laid stress on
three points—(l) the absolute hard-upness
of the institution, and of hospitals in
general; (2) the positive necessity for the
Government to come to the rescue with
money from the consolidated revenue; and
(3) that nationalisation of hospitals was a
proposal fraught with danger, tainted with
Sosh, ruinous to the medical profession, and
a road down a steep place to the sea. There
were loud "hear hears” to both of the latter
propositions. There were louder “liear-
nears” when, at the same meeting, an anti-
nationalisation speaker exposed the fact
that, owing to lack of means, nurses
were forced to sleep in an ill-ventilated
room ; and another, to account for this lack
of means, hinted that the old subscriber was
refusing cheques to hospital collectors, and
was referring them for funds to Labor,
which, “now that it had taxed land, ought
to cure its own sick poor.” The tact thus
appears to be that the old subscriber, for
whatever reason, political or otherwise, is
himself becoming converted to the nationali-
sation idea ; and despite the wails of Tory
politicians, his defection will practically
settle the question and force nationalisation,
through a strike against private benevo-
lchce. Such a strike may or may not be on
at present. It would appear, however, that
it has started. A short time ago a Sydney
hospital wanted to establish a Radium
Bank, meaning thereby to get in a stock of
the expensive material which is used in the
treatment of cancer and other diseases. The
Wade Government refused to put up the
£2OOO requisite, and thereby upheld the
glorious principles of Private Enterprise.
The daily press made constant appeals; but
there was still a shortage. The hospital
authorities were in despair, and the
Private Enterprise business went to smash,
and had to be rescued by a good-hearted
stage favorite, who, with the aid of news-
paper reclame, enlisted the services of those
peculiar people who are not at all charitable,
but always fill matinde and benefit enter-
tainments, and those other numerous people
who never give a penny by stealth, but will
give a fiver for a programme if they get
their name in the paper, or will eke out a
shilling in penny donations if they are re-
warded by the smiles of a dozen pretty
cadgers on Hospital Saturday. Only by such
anti-Sosh means as these was it that Miss
Nellie Stewart managed to rake in enough
money to start a Radium Bank in Sydney.
Contemporaneously, another generous-heart-
ed woman endeavored to use the prestige of
a vice-regal position to induce Private Enter-
prise to finance a splendid scheme for Bush
Nursing. This lady had mothered such a
scheme in Ireland, and had there substituted
trained nursing in the remotest districts for
the rough-and-ready “auld wife,” Sairey-
Gamp nursing which, with the best inten-
tions had filled many a grave. The Bush
Nursing scheme happened to conflict with
the Dreadnought craze. There was money
in abundance for the Jingo proposition for
man-killing instruments; but the springs of
Private Enterprise dried up at the idea of
subsidising man-, woman- and child-saving
devices in the remote districts of our own
bush. While the wildest district of Conne-
mara has skilled nurses at the command of
its dwellers, the pioneers of the Australian
backblocks have to take the risks of distance
and isolation. It may be taken for granted
from all these symptoms that Private Enter-
prise is dead so far as Public Health is con-
cerned.
* * * *
A nation cannot claim to be truly civilised
which, while it strenuously organises for
defence from foreign attack, deliberately
neglects to guard itself from the ever present
foe within its borders, viz., preventable
disease. We are organising our defence
system with a certain amount of intelli-
gence, discipline and energy. In five years’
time, if we push on our schemes, we should
be nationally capable of putting up a splen-
did resistance to a predatory expedition. In
the interests of defence, too, we are develop-
ing our country, encouraging immigration,
and opening our lands. Meanwhile, as immi-
grants driblile in in their hundreds, our own
citizens are departing by the Long Road of
Death in their thousands—dying of causes
which are as capable of control as are the
forces which organise the influx of people
from abroad. Tuberculosis loses the Com-
monwealth nearly 4000 lives annually. Tu-
berculosis is preventable, and, in certain
stages, curable. Why is it not cured and
prevented? Because we have left the or-
ganisation of our defensive health forces to
Private Enterprise; and Private Enterprise
has failed, not because of the lack of noble
enthusiasm in a few (there has been plenty
of such individual enthusiasm), but because
of the inertia of the bulk of those who see
no narticular advertisement for them in
parting up when there is no limelight
around.
The nationalisation of Public Health
means the organisation—on military lines
if necessary— of all the forces of the State,
the municipality and private benevolence, to
stamp out conditions which produce pre-
ventable disease, and the creation of means
available to all for curing diseases which
may be cured. Typhoid, a disease of bad
sanitation, which is the scourge of our
country towns; measles, scarlet fever and
diphtheria, which decimate children in
badly-equipped schools ; consumption, which
is a disease of bad housing and impure air
- —all these can be attacked systematically
and practically stamped out, as plague has
been. But to do it we must have organisa-
tion, equipment, hospitals, capable medical
staffs, skilled nurses in abundance, materia!
for the most serious surgical or medical
cases in even the most remote districts. We
owe it to all human beings born into or
living in our democratic State that they
shall have the same right to the best medical
or surgical treatment procurable, even in
the remotest districts, that the millionaire
has in the capital city ; that alleviable pain
shall be soothed, and that life shall not be
sacrificed for want of means which money
can buy. It may be that the life of a
pioneer, sacrificed through want of appliances
or skilled attention in the backblocks, is
far more valuable to the State than that of
a drone in the city. Yet the acme of sur-
gical skill is available to the latter, while
even the roughest aid is often unavailable
to the pioneer. The bush doctor, at any
rate, should be a civil servant, lie should
be nationalised. His big brother in the
city may not view with satisfaction the in-
terference of the State in the sphere in
which he is making a princely income; but
his big brother is less than the interests of
the State. And the country doctor should
have as good appliances, as good serums amt
drugs, as good nursing auxiliaries as tin-
metropolitan doctor; and the metropolitan
doctor should have better than he can mostly
command to-day. If the proposition stands
good that a civilised country owes it to its
members that they shall not suffer needless
pain—that not one, not even the pooresr
man, woman or child shall die through lack
of skilful treatment, nursing or medicines
which the State can supply at the expense
of all —if that stands, then we admit the
highest efficiency is necessary in the treat-
ment of disease. Have we that efficiency?
No; neither in the town nor in the country.
* * * *
That the Private Enterprise system has
hopelessly broken down is admitted. David
Fell, M.L.A., the treasurer of the Sydney
Hospital, said in Parliament: —
In the past it had been the custom to depend, to
a great extent, upon donations for the maintenance,
of these institutions; but, unfortunately, during 1
the last 10 or 15 years, those who wore in a posi-
tion had not exhibited the same benevolence as
many wealthy people had in the past, and the re-
sult was that all the leading institutions in the city
of Sydney, which catered, not only for the metro-
politan area, but for the whole community, had
found great difficulty in financing. Both the Syd-
ney and Prince Alfred Hospitals, as well as one or
two women’s hospitals in the city, had experienced
great difficulty in meeting their obligations, with
the result that a large section of the staff—it was
so claimed; he did not say it was correct —was un-
derpaid. The development of these hospitals had
also been considerably retarded. He himself, as
hon. treasurer to the Sydney Hospital, had waited
upon the Colonial Secretary, and pointed out that
they would have a deficit this year of £SOOO.
Last year the deficit was £3OOO, and next year it
would probably be larger than this year, while at
the same time the public donations showed a ten-
dency to diminish. Something must, therefore, be
done to maintain these hospitals. For some extra-
ordinary reason all Governments during the last 20
years had placed an insufficient sum on the esti-
mates for the requirements of hospitals. They
always seemed to postpone the evil day financially.
Recently Div, Mac Neill Simpson, in a
striking articre*in The Lone Hand, asked
“State surgeons and public physicians—is
the time ripe ?” and he answered “Ripe and
ro.tten ripe!” In Melbourne the Age has
for years past been publishing thoughtful
articles from members of the medical pro-
fession on this subject. Recently a medi-
cal man, in an article in that paper, pointed
out (1) that not half the sick are reached
by the present system, (2) that the rich
have a monopoly of skilled medical treat-
ment, (3) that child deterioration goes on
unchecked, since _ the State discovers the
disease in the child, but makes no provision
for the treatment; and (4) that great
numbers of people, not being rich enough
to employ expert specialist physicians and
nurses, and not poor enough to get into
the public hospital, have to submit them-
selves to the risk of “desultory second-rate
attention.” His cure was nationalisation.
The Germans (wisest of national organ-
isers-in-advance), the French, the Aus-
trians, the Danes, and the Japanese
have partially nationalised medicine. In
Japan one expert declared that syphilis was
reduced from 50 per cent, to 2 per cent,
through the application of national meas-
ures, subsidised by national funds.
Nationalisation of health also means in-
creased power to the State health authori-
ties, who in most instances can apparently
only advise a municipal body as to its
duties. If the municipality will not act,
nothing can be done, and the people die.
The Clifton case in N.S.W. is a recent hor-
rible instance of that. Nationalisation
means better hospital accommodation from
one end of the country to the other, so
that a man may not go in with a broken
leg and die of typhoid fever, as in the Tam-
worth hospital case. It means better
nursing, and better conditions for patients,
doctors and nurses. It means better sani-
tation in towns and urban districts and the
abolition of the abominable cesspit in the
country. It means by-laws against expec-
toration properly enforced. It means cleans-
ing crusades in the towns w T here typhoid is
recrudescent. It means a cessation of the
holocaust in the lives of mothers through
puerperal diseases. N. S. Wales lost 600
mothers in 1908, young women at the
acme of their value to the nation as breeders
of the nation’s sons. Many, if not most of
the deaths, were backblocks tragedies—
tragedies of pioneer life. It is a blot on
c-ur humanity that we should have lost
these, as it is that we should have insani-
tary schoolrooms which kill, cripple, and
stupefy our scholars.
* * * *
Nationalisation of health means the
study of the death-rate as well as the birth-
rate. We have bothered much over our
birth-rate. Let us now look more earnestly
to see if our death-rate cannot be dimin-
ished, and our sick-rate (which is the chief
cause of national wastage and loss) abort-
ed. Our problem will include an attempt


to co-ordinate all the services,
private, lay and professional, and to e “ p “J
all the means that science holds out to us,
in the interests of the sick, and for t P
vention of sickness. Housing the P°
a branch of the work; better local g
ment administration; wider park spa ,
building, and homing, and town-planni g
arts; the extirpation of slums, the re
building of decayed parts of cities, But, as
the N.S.W. Labor Conference lately de-
clared, there must be effective organisation.
There must be a separate Department ot
Public Health in each State, or one Depart-
ment for the Commonwealth, with full and
ample powers, and a permanent under-
secretary, an efficient staff, and the whole
of the medical profession as reserves, to be
called up if necessary. There must be
depots for serums, and divisional labora-
tories and district operating theatres and
motor ambulances. To-day it may s °und
Utopian; but in this the nation wants the
best that can be got. A Democracy which
has any pride ought not to. allow its women
to deprave themselves with the best in-
tentions by going round rattling boxes once
a year to supply the sick poor with attend-
ance ; nor should the health of a nation be
allowed to deteriorate owing to the fact
that Private Benevolence has either got
tired or is on strike because the Labor
party has come to power in politics.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Holman, the Daniel He Called to Judgment
and a Bit More of the Judgment.
Holman, the anti-Australian, State Rights Attor-
ney-General in the N. S. Wales Government, was
either ill-advised or trafficking in “bluff ” when he
quoted Justice Higgins, of the High Court, to
support liis antagonism to tho RofoiGiicia. For,
instead of helping him, the eminent constitutional
authority pursues him, metaphorically, with sand-
bags. When the Constitution Bill of 1898 was
being discussed, McGowkn (who was busily miss-
ing the ’bus then as now) was responsible for a
suggested amendment, which the N.S.W. Parlia-
ment accepted, whereby an alteration might be
made in the Constitution of the Commonwealth
by a referendum —
Provided that, respecting proposed alterations trans-
ferring to the Commonwealth any of the powers retained
by the several States at the date of their acceptance of
the Constitution, such alteration should not take effect
in any State unless approved by a majority of electors in
such State voting.
Holman recalled that amendment some days
back, and quoted aemarks made by Mr. Higgins
concerning the nutter, apparently to induce the
public to the belief that he (Higgins) was an
advocate of State Frights “It is interesting.-
to note,” says Holman, “that this proposal of
our”was spoken of by Mr. Higgins in the follow-
ing terms: — , . ..
«The truth is, Mr. Reid would have been much wiser if
he had seized the valuable and statesmanlike distinction
laid down in Mr. McGowen’s proposal—the principle that
no new subject is to be added to the 1 ederal area with-
out the consent of each of the States.... By failing t
this distinction between the two kinds of amend-
ments our Premiers have opened the door to what they
so much dread, more than anything that has been done.
They have opened the door to the gradual unification of
But Holman took care not to explain that these
remarks were not an interpretation of Mr.
Higgins’s views on McGowen’s amendment, but
an interpretation of Mr. Higgins’s views on the
paradoxical position George Reid was in. Mr.
Higgins was dealing with the amendments agreed
upon at the Premiers’ conference in Melbourne,
particularly the one to permit an alteration being
made in the Constitution by the consent of one
Federal House and a majority of voters and
of the States : and he contended that G. REID
had fallen in' badly, because, under the amend-
ments he had agreed to in conference, Victoria,
combined with two or three of the smaller States,
could force the Ma State and Queensland to hand
over the railways or anything else, even if every
living soul in N. S. Wales and Queensland howled
“ No.” That was the position that Reid and the
other Premiers had placed themselves in. With
all their care they had opened the door to the
Unification tiger that they dreaded so much.
" Far better,” said Higgins, m other words, * for
Reid, from his point of view, if he had fastened
to McGowen’s proposed amendment.” The actual
words were : :
You see, therefore, that the proposal of the Premiers
makes an addition to the subjects committed to the
Federal Parliament too easy from Mr. Reid’s point of
view. On the other hand, an alteration in the machinery
of the Constitution for the purpose of dealing with
admitted Federal subjects is still'too difficult.
If Holman can get any comfort from this atti-
tude—that, if the national movement had to be
checked, McGowen’s amendment was a better
article for the job than the one Reid accepted-
lie is welcome to it. But that won’t excuse him for
quoting Justice Higgins in such a way that the
well-known Federalist might appear as a sup-
porter of Holman and other State Frightens,
In season and out of season Higgins fought the
prevalent fallacy that the Constitution must be
rigid; and repeatedly and earnestly sounded the
alarm against the mistake of those who would
guard against possible temporary mistakes of the
people by placing mechanical obstructions in the
way of adjusting the Constitution as experience
might dictate, and as new conditions might render
expedient. He saw very clearly what was likely
to happen, and, in an early speech, uttered the
words of a prophet :
In the course of years to come, when the people of
Australia realise that, the law courts can sit in judgment
on the Legislature, and can treat a law as invalid because
of its being beyond the powers of the Legislature, the
fundamental importance of flexibility and plasticity in
the written Constitution will be even more apparent than
now.
\ s the anti-Australian Attorney used his bald re-
marks, it would appear tliat Mr. Higgins was
paralysed at the very thought of the Common-
wealth having control of the State railways, for
instance, when, as a matter of hard fact, he
denounced the Commonwealth Bill of 189Sas^“a
Bill that ought to have been called a Bill to Per-
petuate Provincialism ” for the very reason that
it refused to allow the rivers of Australia to be
treated as Australian , in Australian interests, by
Australian control, and that it prevented the
railway systems of the States being worked
for the benefit of Australia as a whole without
regard to State boundaries • Furthei, Higgins,
the Daniel called to judgment by Holman, advo-
cated handing over to the Commonwealth the
regulation of foreign and intercolonial trade and
commerce, banking, insurance, bills of exchange,
insolvency, patents, marriage and divorce, old age
pensions, conciliation and arbitration in labor dis-
putes, quarantine, sea fisheries, etc. And just as
the original Daniel sent for by Belshazzar
closed his judgment with an appropriate sum-
mary, so did the Daniel called by Holman sum
up the situation in this way : “If you scratch a
IStates-right man, you will find a reactionary
Tory.”
“ That Inward. Eye.”
“ A.W.” sees things :
The late Philip Gilbert Hambrton wrote long ago a
work on “ Imagination in Landscape Painting.” Most of
it I have forgotten, but not the way to find out whether
you possess a visual imagination. You said to yourself a
good bi<>- abstract term, and watched for the instinctive
picture your mind made of it. Mr. Hamerton chose
•‘Democracy,” and saw instantly the grey street of a
North Country manufacturing town, with the workmen
all coming out for the dinner-hour. He even saw that
the man nearest him in the picture had his waistcoat
unbuttoned. I never dreamed I had this gift till lately.
Now I know I have it. .
I was asked not long since to a drawing-room meeting,
to be enlightened by Mesdames A. and B. about the Refer-
endum We were all of one sex in that drawing-room,
except a shrinking cleric who tried to hide himself in the
fireplace. I thought of asking just quietly in his ear,
“ What doest thou here, Elijah? ” But Elijah might not
have been his name. The first of the mesdames nad a
long, thin nose, and I didn’t like her hat much. She told
us the most dreadful things about the Referendum,
though she did not say what it was. Definition always
seems sp damping. She said it would break up our most
sacred possessions, our Homes, the Foundation of our
Liberties, and upset the Monarchy which sat on top of
the Liberties to keep all snug. I saw instantly what the
Referendum was like—a sort of cross beiween a thin ele-
phant and a giraffe, with its trunk coming in at the
kitchen window, worrying the cook and unsettling her
mind. After all the trouble I’ve had to get her, too
As if chat wasn’t enough, the lady went on to tell us
about Monopolies. She said they might be anything,
from a paper-bag factory to a gold mine. She said the
Government would only have just to say so, and they
would be It. Mv mental picture of the Monopoly was
clear as daylight—a creature with a broad, flat face and
whiskers, and a deprecating smile, a sort of household pet,
with one very large flat tail that it used for sitting on,
and also to flap on the floor with, thus disarming criticism.
Is it at all like this?
When tier sermon was done we went out to tea, ana i
sidled up to ask her what the Referendum was. She
seemed rather sniffy, and gave me two little green tracts
out of a bag. Then I asked what arguments we should
use to induce the Labor people to vote the way they
didn’t want to. She kind of glared,, and said.: The
Referendum is against their true interest.” I said 1 was
sure it was, but I couldn’t think of anything to say that
would make them think so. She quivered her nostrils at
me till I felt too small for words, and gave me another
tract, pink this time. I simply crawled away ; hut it
rather hurt my feelings, when I came for a heart-to-heart
talk, to be fobbed off with tracts.
After tea another of the mesdames took charge. Her
charms were of the opulent order, less nose but more
everything else, and a far nicer hat. She talked about
Socialism till I quaked, and how we stood on a Brink—so
suggestive, like a Past, or a Skeleton in a Cupboard. I
thought Socialism —the nice kind —meant Education, and
Milk'Supply, and Water, and Lighting, and Railways, and
all that run by Government for everybody’s good hut
their own. But, no, she said, it was Bloody (or perhaps
that was the Revolution it lead to), and I know exactly
what it is like. It is a Fiery Flying Dragon, and the
Destruction that Walketh at Noonday, and its picture is
in “Thro’the Looking Glass,” and its name is Jabber-
wock. Only its waistcoat should he red, and it should
wear something saucy on its head, say, a bonnet rouge.
She gave us heaps of French Revolution, and though I
can’t pretend my blood is actually blue right through, I
could see that, with luck, 1 might go to the guillotine in
the Highest Company.
But the worst of all was the Caucus. I may have
mixed things up a bit, but my mental picture was clear-
ness itself. A round table like Arthur’s, and 22 terrible
persons sitting' at it, with large goggly eyes, and immense
numbers of obviously false teeth, which they gnashed at
frequent intervals.
When her sermon was done there seemed every pros-
pect of a third. But at this point a spirit in my feet led
me, who knows how, through the door into the street,
without so much as a “ Thank you, kindly ! ” to any of
the mesdames.
Of course, I’ve quite made up my mind to say “ No ’ to
that poking old Referendum. Only Ido hope nobody
asks me why.
♦
Concerning a Wilting Art Gallery.
Inspired by a cable message that the Melbourne
Art Gallery had acquired a Reynolds, a Hoppner
and a Morland, the S. M. Herald came out the
other day with the following :
What in particular is the New South Wales Gallery
doing towards reinforcing its collection with works of
first-class standard, and what is the Government doing
towards assisting the Gallery? The answer is obvious.
Nothing at all in particular is being done. . . . It is the
duty of the Government to see to it that an institution of
tiie value of the National Gallery is properly maintained.
That it is not properly maintained is obvious from the
fact that, since it lost the services of Sir Alfred East,
more than three years ago, it has had no expert European
adviser. . . . It confines its energies of purchase to the
annual tribute to the Art Society, an encouragement of
local art, ceruinlv ; hut this is somewhat a pathetic state
of affairs for a national gallery. The Sydney collection,
indeed, was once the finest in Australia. t It is gradually
being out-distanced as a witness to art in the Common-
wealth.
A N.S.W. institution is in a bad way when it
provokes criticism like that from a Sydney daily
paper. But the words are amply justified.
Twenty years ago the N.S.W. Gallery, though it
hadn’t any Corots or Hoppnkrs, was out and
away the worthiest in Australia. To-day it is, in
an artistic manner of speaking, a sort of Hospice
for the Dying—where it isn’t a plain Morgue.
The tragedy is not due to lack of new pictures.
Some thousands are spent each year in this
direction. It is the class of work which
has been pouring into the place during the last
15 years that is ruining it as effectually
as bad water ruins good alcohol. And the blame
for that rests with the trustees. A consideration
of the personnel of the Board is enlightening. Its
members are appoihted on political or social
grounds. They include a couple of sheep-breeders,
an auctioneer, a house agent, some q'ty mer-
chants, a newspaper proprietor, a solicitor, an
architect, a sharebroker and so forth. A man
may possess the most winning ways in the world
on an auctioneer’s rostrum ; he may have for-
gotten more about the letting of desirable villas
than Velasquez or Sargent ever knew, and yet
be an utterly futile picture-buyer. One may go
further and lay it down that the very fact of a citi-
zen having risen to Eminence as a solicitor, share-
broker, or what not, constitutes an argument
against him in the capacity of picture-buyer—
picture-buying being a job which calls for as much
expenditure of time, technical knowledge, ex-
perience and natural talent as sheep or bullock-
buying itself. Australia does not own the
leisured art-enthusiast of the Old World—the cul-
tivated amateur who, even if he doesn t paint
himself, frequents the classic galleries, the great
sales, the studios and the clubs where artists fore-
gather, so that lie becomes, ultimately, an
expert in the hobby he has made his own.
After the local business-man has got througn
his day’s toil, taken a certain amount of
exercise, interviewed his family and performed
liis social duties, he simply hasn’t time to study
the technicalities of painting. It is not strange,
in the circumstances, that when he wanders into
the field of art he should make as hopeless a mess
of the business as an artist would who, with no
legal training, proceeded to offer an “ opinion
on an involved law-point. The one essential for
the salvation of the N.S.W. Art Gallery is that
which the Herald sternly avoids mentioning—
namely, the swift and ruthless weeding-out of
present trustees. They are sound men at their
various trades, no doubt; but as picture
buyers their incapacity may be taken as proved.
A recognised expert of the calibre of Victorias
Bernard Hall needs to be appointed. And he
should be given a power of veto in regard to un-
authorised purchases by his colleagues. Failing
drastic action of that sort, the N.S.W. Gallery
must continue drifting steadily down hill, at con-
siderable expense to the public.
A Plea for the Segregation of Governors.
“H. SINGKMOINE ” :
A successor to Lord Dudley has been appointed ; and
even the McGowen and Verran Governments, pledged
though they are to the abolition of State Governors,
show no disposition to make a move. In short, the old
regime is to continue indefinitely. In the circumstances
I venture to submit a scheme which is designed to
make Governors Seem to be worth a portion of the large
sum they cost annually, even where they aren’t.
Theoretically a Governor is a person who guides the
ship of State. Webster calls him, amongst other
things, “a deity.” Anyhow, one may assume that
tlie "people are supposed to look to Governors ''’hen
wisdom and sage counsel are in demand. There
is no doubt Australia could get all the wisdom and
sage counsel that are supplied by its Governors, locally,
for a paltry sum. It is evident that the high figure
demanded by our imported counsellors is paid on the
grounds that its suppliers have not only brains and upe
experience, but wealth and, above all, titles, the latter
signifying that they are citizens of high standing - , and
hence the possessors of that probity which, as Becky
Sharp remarked, invariably marches with coin or words
to that effect. It is a queer anomaly, and a signal
example of bad economy, that Australia has barely
acquired one of tiiese extravagantly-salaried officials
before a section of the populace starts ruining the sole
asset that makes him of value, namely his character.
How many Australian Governors, Federal or State,
have left these shores with the untarnished reputations
they brought here? I can’t recall one. The luckless
import, has been accused of chronic drunkenness or flirt-
ing with other people’s wives, or beating his own, or
running separate establishments, or destroying innocent
chorus-ladies. The writer has heard tales anent the
drinking feats of one State Governor that would render
a M.L. Prohibition lecturer speechless with envy. The
official was said to habitually swallow two bottles of
whisky a day, and to pass seven-eighths of bis waking
hours in a condition of riotous intoxication. The erotic
deeds attributed to one of our earliest G.-G’s. make the
efforts of Casanova, Cellini and Abdul Hamid look like
mere two-spots. A dense haze of scandal hung over
Government House when Carrington reigned in N.S.W.,
and it descended again shortly after Hampden arrived,
and stayed there till the end of his term. Wild yarns
rattled suburban tea-cups anent the virginal-looking
Beauchamp ; and weird untruths about G.-G. Dudley
have penetrated to the remotenesses of this continent. The
most lightly-libelled Governor within living recollection,
was that inoffensive old poultry-enthusiast, Lord
Augustus Loftus. He was only charged by “ Society ”
with stealing fowls.
The cause of. all this is plain. Our Governors are too
much in evidence. The bright light that heats on a
throne is a mere circumstance to the article that
illumines a vice-regal motor-ear. A king associates with
comparatively few of his subjects. The vast majority of
those he does encounter are riveted to him by the ties
of self-interest. Australian Governors are always meet-
ing people, and, naturally, always forgetting them ;
always in evidence ; always opening urban Maternity
Homes or backhlocks Agricultural Shows; always the
centre of interest wherever they are. The average
scion of our local nobility who inhabits a city’, and
the up-country J.P. medico, auctioneer or other
magnate, have one characteristic in common, namely, an
avid desire to’chat to their friends about the Governors
they have met. It does not do to remark baldly, “ I
know the Governor,” and leave it at that. So they drag
the potentate in by the hair of an anecdote. Unfortun-
ately for Governors, “Society” takes sparse interest in
pretty little yarns of the Aunt Tabitha or Sabbath-school
variety. The citizen who mentioned that he and the
Governor once spent a beautiful afternoon plucking
flowers and discussing the Word svould not produce a
sensation, but, rather, furtive yawns and boredom. So
mostly the reminiscence is one which must be hissed be-
hind the raised beer-glass ; and. in it, the vice-regality
is limned as a cross between Hkliogabalus and Hknry
VIII.
When it is remembered that, during any given year any
given Governor makes the acquaintance of about 15,000
people, representing pretty well every grade of our local
“ Society 7,” it will be recognised that the possibilities of
slander are simply vast. There is only one remedy.
Governors need to be kept from “ Society 7 ,” in much the
same way 7 as “ Society” is kept from the residents of Little
Bay Hospital. Attempts, successful or otherwise, on the
part of social-climbers to burst into the vice-regal pre-
serves should be punished, first with swingeing fines,
next with gaol. For incorrigibles, a Habitual Governor
Chasing Act should be passed on the lines of
N.S.W.’s chronic-inebriate legislation. Gradually—as
the immense horde of house agents, solicitors, dentists,
commercial travellers. Liberal organisers, importers,
company promoters and other liars who now make folks
backs freeze with their tales of vice-regal infamies, oied
off—the tongue of slander would cease 10 oscillate. Safe
behind their barricaded residences Governors would begin
to hold up their heads again. That section of the public
which does not move in “Society” would experience a
sense of relief, inasmuch as the import at the helm would
no longer be freely 7 spoken of as a moral outcast. The
strange, new sentiment would thus gradually 7 come into
being l hat, even if his Ex. mightn’t be worth all his
lavish screw, at least he wasn’t wholly unworthy of a
fragment of it.
Public demonstrations against the “ harem skirt,
reported from various European cities, are merely
one more proof of the fact that, whilst every
crowd is conservative by nature, man is the louder
animal in expressing hatred of new fashions.
Mrs. Bloomer, the intrepid Yankee mother of
baggy knickerbockers, might have conquered the
prejudices of her own sex had the men not per-
sisted in their angry derision. As it was, she
smoothed the way for the few girls who, years
afterwards, adopted knickers as the main feature
of their shooting-party costume, and the many
girls who ventured to bring their legs under
observation when they rode a bike. In
fact, Women, as a sex, have admitted its
reasonableness by habitually wearing in secret the
“ bloomers ” that some of them sport for special
occasions in public, thus for the first time in many
centuries making their apparel actually, as well as
seemingly, quite decent in all respects. The
“harem skirt” is a new assertion of the “bloomer”
principle. It merges, so to speak, the super
fluous outer garment in the essentially respectable
under-garment, and provides a latest Paris fashion
in which there is nothing suggestively alluring
to the trousered satyr. On account of the
eminent respectability of this new departure in
women’s leg-gear, man is deeply irritated by it.
The blood ut his ancestors rebels at the sight of
the innovation, and he cries aloud —says the cable
“ Our women shan’t wear trousers.” What the
unconscious satyr means is that he objects to the
chaste simplicity of baggy pants being substituted
for the sexual suggestiveness of the hobble skirt
or the directoire gown.
♦ 7"
In all the vaporings of the State Frighters about
the disasters that will happen if the electors vote
Yes on April 26, not one has explained why these
calamities haven’t happened already. Thus ex-
Senator and preseut Rep. Best descended into
doleful lamentations about what the Federal Par-
liament (in which he is included) might do if the
Referendum were carried. “ The Bill,’ he
wailed, “ even gives power to the Federal Parlia-
ment, if it wishes to exercise it, to wipe out every
Wages Board.” It is indeed pitiable. The State
Parliament has had the same power ever since
Wages Boards came into being, but it hasn t
dreamed of exercising it. And if the Common-
wealth doesn’t get the power, the State will con-
tinue to have it; so that if the Commonwealth
isn’t entitled to wipe out every Wages Board, the
State will be. And if it is dangerous to give the
Commonwealth the power, it is also obviously
dangerous to leave it with the States ; and if
neither the Commonwealth nor the State can be
trusted with it, Heaven only knows where the
blessed thing can be stowed.
♦
The S. M. Herald is trembling gently on behalf
of the Illawarra (N.S.W.) dairy-farmers, who
met recently at Kiaina, where the ghost lives, to
form a defensive organisation and discuss their
chances of making a living now that the Rural
Workers’ Union has taken the cowyard and
opened the battle for a fair deal in wages and
hours. Unlike one maddened speaker at the
meeting:, the Herald does not recklessly go the
whole cow and say that the industry will be ruined
if the rural workers get what they are asking for.
It merely trembles and moans, and says it has
premonitory’ aches in its bones. For instance :
“ Without in any way suggesting that there may
not be details of the workers’ condition susceptible
of improvement, it is clear enough from the trend
of speeches at the meeting that the methods of
the Arbitration Court are likely to impose unwar-
rantable conditions upon employers. In other
An Elegy Written on a Dress Shirt Front.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Labor policy is fast killing all capitalistic enter-
prise.—2’ort/ wail of despair.
Fat is no more ! Obesitas is slain !
meet that we should make a gentle row,
And weep a little. Cash and carcase fade,
And all the world is full of heavy pain,
Dwelling amid the wreck of things he made ;
Rash Labor triumphs ; and old Death, the Cow,
Sits grinning where his round bulk is laid.
Large was his sole, set square on this round earth ;
His bank-account was puffed with breath of
gold
A thousand hirelings at his bidding sped.
He held long banquet in a place of dearth,
Lone with increasing mutton. Round his head
The fortunate stars of his abundance rolled.
Weep for Obesitas 1 His pride is dead !
Dead ? Shall the Fat of ages wake no more ?
So long in regal pomp he took his way !
A large, kind bloke who had a ready hand.
He used to run the market and the store,
And parliaments and councils once would stand
Waiting his bidding. We may weep all day,
But he returns no more to this sad land.
O coves, O shepherd coves, O ye who toil,
Remember all his former charity !
He used to give the racing club ten pounds
Until the land tax pinched his corn and oil
And frightened his merinos. Blood an’ ’ounds!
His wrath was then a fearful thing to see—
Like hash-house coffee raging in its grounds.
Weep for Obesitas ! He loved the poor ;
To have them always with him was his pride,
His heart was shaken when he heardtthem weep,
And unencumbered couples still were sure
To find a happy place among his sheep—
Ay, childless women o’er the place he died
Fray that his slumbers may be long and deep !
O blokes ! Remember when tall Fat was strong !
When all the happy ways were hungry-sweet,
When every parish had its own dear spite,
And every Tory had his own rich song,
Ere yet the people learned to prate of right,
When meek humility her dirt would eat,
And toil went cheaply on from morn till night.
It was a wondrous time. But fashion’s wheel
Whirls all things down the dusty way of death.
Obesitas is sleeping with the dead.
The fat, wild, ancient things that cannot feel —
Freetrade, and dragons, and old Moloch red
Who used to steal the Hebrew children’s breath—
Sit like a mass of whisky on his head.
Weep for Obesitas ! The time goes well;
The spindles fly to turn the endless thread ;
The world seems bigger since he went away ;
And in the places where he used to dwell
Sosh sits and riots all the blooming day.
Lo, people throw old jam tins at the dead
Whose holy waistcoat could not with us stay !
Weep no more, woeful blokes, the hearse is past !
Australian suns a grander harvest swell
Where the white treasure of her fields is wide.
This carcase, in the hole of ages cast,
Is but a broad expanse of bloated hide ;
Nor shall the busy future pause to tell
The way in which the large, round person died.
N. S. WALES.
PAT O’MAORI.
One Vote—No Gun!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Said the sturdy Boer Steyn :
“ It’s a notion old of mine
That the rifle and the franchise
Go together ;
That the Dopper who would vote
Must prepare to drop his coat,
And pursue his country’s foemen —
Hell for leather !
But our men who legislate
Reckon Steyn is out of date—
That his methods may suit Hollanders
And such men.
But a stomach full of drill
Would make voters very ill;
So they leave the rifle business
To the Dutchmen !
And when next election comes,
With its roll of party drums.
We shall note it as a curious
Sort of trifle,
That the men who face the box
In the fashion orthodox,
Never spent an hour a-shooting
With a rifle !
QUEENSLAND.
F.B.


Not much in names these days. Schwarz
and Nourse are both English, ’tissaid. And any
of the team might easily qualify to be labelled
good Australian, But when it comes to the
right brand of stimulant s tis a different matter.
When it’s a question of inspiring energy and
wisdom to their record effort, on every tongue
rises the name of D.C.L., the Whisky of the
Wise.*
BEARD’S British = Built Bioscope,
second to none. Sole Agents—Jerdan’s
Ltd., 393 George Street, Sydney. Let us send
you particulars.*
International Patents and Trade
Marks. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street,
Melbourne, and Eagle Chambers, Adelaide.
Thirty years’ practice. Correspondence invited.*
HARRINGTONS LTD.,
The Cinematograph
Supply House.
The largest assortment of CINEMATOGRAPHS AND
FILMS always in stock by the World’s best makers.
If you want to procure a better supply of Films than
you are obtaining at present, get into communication
with us and state your requirements. Our Film
Library is the largest in the Commonwealth.
We are the people to give you satisfaction.
SYDNEY-MELBOURNE—BRISBANE—ADELAIDE.
It is essential for defence that Australia should
be self-contained in regard to the oil engine industry,
because for land, sea and air purposes the oil engine will
have an enormous use. It is intolerable that all these
services should depend on foreign factories, and that is
why the “ Invincible ” people are asking for more duty
on oil engines. In the meantime the “Invincible”
people point out that the purchase of an Australian oil
engine means the stimulation of that industry, and that
it helps train Australians to become competent workmen.
Moreover, an “Invincible” engine is emphatically high
grade, and is acknowledged to be the equal of any built
anywhere. Therefore give your order to the “ Invincible”
Co. Of course, in the eyes of the importing crowd, it
has committed three unforgivable sins, i.e., it has proved
the excellence of the Australian engine ; it is training
Australians efficiently, and it puts up a vigorous fight
for the cause of Australian industry. That arouses
opposition ; but nevertheless the wheels at a big factory
at Woolwich Dock, Sydney, hum more merrily and
busily every day.*
ZENOBIA
Perfumes
As supplied to H.M.
QUEEN ALEXANDRA.
Sweet Pea
Blossom.
Lily of tl\e
Valley
Natural.
Nig'ht*
Scented
Stock.
The Zenobia Per-
fumes char m
everyone by their
absolute fidelity
to Nature and
their Refreshing
and Lasting
Fragrance.
#5
.
Manufactured at the Zenobia Laboratories, Lough-
borough, England.. To be obtained from leading
Chemists and Stores.
Wholesale Agents for Australia:
THE AUSTRALIAN MFC. & IMPORTING CO. LTD.,
108 Pitt Street, Sydney.
words, the case is “clear enough” to the lop-
sided Herald after hearing only one party to the
trouble. An Arbitration tribunal would hear
both sides ; and one of the sides would say things
like this, contained in a recent letter in Sydney
D.T.:—
AUSTRALIAN SLAVERY.
TO THE EDITOR.
Sir,—l am the Methodist missionary travelling eastern
Victoria and southern New South Wales.
Allow me to make a public protest against the labor
conditions prevailing on the dairy farms in the mother
State, as I find them. Family No. 1: Six members,
working from 4 a.m. to 7 p.m., milking and fieldwork,
using their own horses, and purchasing their own horse
feed; average earnings £2 12s. per month, which does
not pay for food, while the owner lives in affluence.
Family No. 2 : Seven members, same hours, average a
little more, because there are more cows, £4 per month.
They live on dry bread and tea. Imagine a man working
hard in the field on this 1
Is it not time that this should be stopped ? I want to
publish this that our Labor Government might know of
the white slavery in Australia.—Yours, etc.,
R. Maddock.
VVangrabelle, Victoria, December 16.
Apparently the Herald doesn’t want to hear
that side ; the matter is “clear enough” to suit
its book when it has heard only the Fat part of
the argument.
Admiral Henderson’s just-published report on
Australian naval defence says nothing that is un-
expected. The fleet, which should have been
started a decade ago, will not be complete before
22 years. The sole result of the efforts of
Australia’s hired-defence party is that this
country—the richest per head of population on
earth—must continue loafing on the sorely-bur-
dened Motherland for 10 years longer than it
should. Instead of one naval base, the bland propo-
sition of Sydney on the one hand and of Melbourne
on the other—the idea in each case being that the
entire navy should be anchored over against the
claimant city’s doorstep, for “the benefit of trade”
—there are to be 16. The depdt will remain at
Sydney; and till real trouble begins, and ornate
mansions and up-to-date villas start crumbling
beneath the invader’s shells, no one is likely to
object. Then will the anguished howl of smitten
Property tear the atmosphere; but in the uproar
it will pass unheard. Stress is laid on the
“urgent necessity of establishing railway
communication between Port Darwin and
Fremantle and the centres of population.”
These lines must, of course, be worked in con-
junction with existing lines. The entire railway
system is, indeed, an indispensable part of the
scheme of national defence. All the money
expended on every other work might easily
be money wasted without the support of the
railways, and that pouts inevitably to their
transfer sooner or later to the authority which is
charged with defence. Finally, says the Ad-
miral :
In establishing a fleet of her own and developing her
own naval resources, Australia is taking a large share in
the inauguration of an Imperial movement, which must
result in strengthening the sea power of the Empire. But
the ultimate success of this development rests, and must
continue to rest, with the Australian people. I have full
confidence that the people of this great country will
show that they retain those maritime instincts which are
the proud heritage of our race, and that they are deter-
mined to support their Government in having an ideal
naval force imbued with the naval traditions of our past.
It is a broad hint to anti-Australians to jettison
their unworthy point of view that this country is
incapable of doing what even the Dago nations of
S. America have achieved, and a pointed sugges-
tion that they shall now wade in, self-respectingly,
and assist the Commonwealth to do its belated
duty.
»
Joseph Cook, M.P., emitted a cry of pain and
protest last week because some political foes re-
minded him that he had voted for the inclusion of
railway servants in the Federal Arbitration Bill
six years ago. Cook was naturally horrified at
this charge, inasmuch as the anti-Labor press (to
whose tune he must dance or go out of the politi-
cal game) is now basing a considerable part of its
hostility to the Referenda proposals on the
grounds that they will mean the control of
wages, etc., in the State Railways by a
Federal Court. And this, it is argued, must
bring about the lowering of the railway-
man’s wages—though Heaven and Adipose alone
know how this conclusion is arrived at. As
Cook’s vote in favor of the policy which he now
condemns is recorded in black and white in Han-
sard, it is impossible for him to give the matter a
flat denial. Hence he is driven to try to explain
it away. Under the heading, “ Caucus Cham-
pion’s‘Bluff’ Exposed by Mr. Joseph Cook,”
Melbourne Age (8/3/T1) reports him as follows:
I notice that Messrs. Hughes and Watson are busily
resurrecting a vote I and Mr. George Reid gave some
years ago on the question of the inclusion of the railway
servants in the Federal arbitration proposals. After
completely misrepresenting our action, they go on to
say : “ What was good in 1904 should be good in 1911.”
The clause for which we voted seven years ago reads
thus: “Industrial dispute ” means “a dispute in relation
to industrial matters ... extending beyond the limits of
any one State, including disputes in relation to employ-
ment upon the State railways.” It will be seen that this
clause relates to an inter-State railway dispute, a thing
which could only happen on the failure of two or more
State Governments to prevent it. It is clear that the
new proposal is to strike out the clause for which we
voted in 1904. All the limitations are to go.
Cook seeks to exonerate himself on the plea that
he only supported a measure which would em-
power the Federal Arbitration Court to interfere
where two or more State railway systems were in
trouble. Speaking by the*card, Cook is correct.
But, in fact, he is “pointing” most shame-
lessly. He claims that he never meant the
Federal Court to have jurisdiction in the case
of a dispute between (say) Commissioner
•Johnson and the N.S.W. railway men.
Yet, six years ago, there wasn’t one speaker in the
Representatives who didn’t admit that any rail-
way dispute in one State was inevitably bound to
affect the adjoining States. And, indeed, it was im-
possible for a body of reasonable human beings to
argue differently. Assuming that Victoria were
again afflicted by such a railway strike as that
wherein Iceberg Irvine made his name, N. S.
Wales would immediately find its foreign mails
held up, its Riverina products prevented from
finding their natural markets, and commerce,
generally, blocked. Later, there would be
the immemorial trouble with “free” labor,
the refusal of N.S.W. railway men to touch
goods handled by Vic. blacklegs; and chaos.
The fact that, in Australia, any dispute in one
State railway system must mean instant trouble
in the adjoining systems was so clear to Cook in
1906 that he, in common with both Deakin and
G. H. Reid, repeatedly said so in Parliament.
And the High Court subsequently recognised the
same truth. Chief Justice Griffith’s famous
judgment was given solely on the grounds that
the Commonwealth has no power under the Con-
stitution to interfere with the State railways,
since they are “an instrumentality of State
Government.” In this matter, then, it is not the
“Caucus Champions” who are putting up a
“bluff”; it is Cook. His attitude is about as
reputable as if he were to bet that he never called
Smith a liar three years ago, and were then to try
to collect: the money on the grounds that he didn’t
call Smith a liar, but a blanky liar.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Via Wireless.”
Royal “ Our Miss Gibbs.”
Palace “Passing of the Third Floor
Back.”
Criterion “The Belle of Brittany.”
Glaciarium West’s Pictures.
Tivoli Rickards’ Vaudeville.
Lyceum Spencer’s Pictures.
Cricket Ground Naval Demonstration (22nd).
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Opera House ’Rickards’ Vaudeville Co
Her Majesty’s “Jack and the Beanstalk.”
Royal “Lucky Durham.”
Kino’s “ Woman and Wine.”
Princess’s “ Why Men Love Women.”
West’s Palace West’s Pictures.
Glaciarium Taits’Pictures.
OrEN Air, St. Hilda .. The Follies.
Olympia Spencer’s Pictures.
Lyric, Prahran Photo Plays.
—♦
That highly moral play, “ A Message
from Mars,” which follows the tracks —at some dis-
tance —of Dickens’s “Christmas Carol,” crowded
the Palace (Sydney) on Saturday night from stalls
to gallery. It is many years now since the message
was first delivered in Sydney, and most people, by
this time, knowitspurport, applaud its sentiment—
and ignore itslesson. The present co. plays the piece
well enough ; the mechanical effects are good, and
the scenery, painted by Harry Whaite, sets a new
standard. Reynolds Denniston, as the Martian,
departs from those doleful mannerisms which in
earlier Martians threatened to put an end to
further attempts to communicate with the planet,
lest it should be found to be inhabited by lantern-
jawed persons crying “ woe ” in a voice like a
coffin falling from a great height. Denniston’s
Martian might almost pass for a cove or a chap.
Harry Plimmer, as Horace Parker, creates a
general desire on the part of the audience to yell
“G’arn, y’ cow,” and no man could do much more
with the part. Mrs. Brough, as Aunt Martha,
Lizette Parkes as Minnie Templer, and one or two
others make the show the better for their help,
and they propose to continue doing so till further
notice.
** * *
The eye of the baldhead is dimmed (and it
is not all a matter of liver); the brow of the raf-
fish young Paris House frequenter—he of the
profusely-oiled hair and the scorbutic chin—is
lined with care : Grief sits like a hastily-consumed
muffin on the chest of the matinee female, and re-
fuses to be dislodged. Labor domination is not
to blame. Admiral Henderson’s report is guilt-
less. So is the Referenda campaign. The entire
trouble is due to the impending departure from
Sydney Criterion of the Clarke-Meynell “ Arca-
dians” co. Nine nights more, and the dazzling
aggregation of beauty, virtue and talent, which is
now presenting “The Belle of Brittany,” will have
vanished from our midst for ever. Dashing the
scalding tears manfully aside, The Bulletin
squares its jaw, grabs its stylo and remarks
brokenly: “Go and see them while there is yet
time.”
** * *
“Via Wireless” is booming at Her
Majesty’s, Sydney. As the writer foresees that he
will be forced to ring the changes on this remark
for many weeks to come, he is chary of further
eulogy. These are days and nights of record runs
when the army of the ink-stained learn, in the
school of bitter experience, the need of rigid
economy in the matter of laudatory phrases.
** * *
A man came down from Wayback the
other day, sat himself by the Irreligious
Editor’s desk and said: “You chaps have the
best of it. Things are always the same at Booli-
gal. They’re always different in the city.” Then,
having claimed the Irreligious Editor’s sympathy,
he went out and left the Irreligious Editor to
write the 594th paragraph to the effect that “ Our
Miss Gibbs ” was still doing brisk business at the
Royal. In the middle of it, the Irreligious
Editor broke into bad language at the top of the
stairs ; but the man from Wayback, who had said
that things were always different in the city, had
gone.
** * *
History is being made to repeat itself just
now at Sydney Tivoli by Miss Lucia Lottie
Collins, the daughter of the English music hall
star who used to do the Little Widow dance in
the days before the alleged Merry Widow was let
loose on the world, and her music added to the
repertoire of the German band which plays
waltzes to make the Sydney trams dance. Miss
Collins, who revives tier mother’s Widow fairly
well, dresses smartly and has some bright songs.
Fasola. the brown illusionist whose lion went out
in Melbourne to look for the Sosh tiger and failed
to find him ; Alexander Prince, of the concertinas ;
and Miss Odeyne Spark, who sings the hobble-
skirt song, supply other chief turns. To be right
up to date. Miss Spark should now have a harem-
skirt ditty. Probably some artiste in London is
now doing big business with one. Australia,
which imports nearly all its music, will probably
get it just about the time the biplane-blouse is
arousing public indignation. The present week
sees the last of Cooper and Lait’s frenzied sketch,
“A Man of Spirit,” wherein Mr. Cooper slashes
the morning loaf with his relative’s Light Brigade
sword. R. A. Roberts, a quick-change artist, is
promised for March 25.
Your true melomaniac loves the Wagnerian
rainstorm, with its heavy bass of thunder and the
red flashes that follow aerial artillery. Such a
storm burst over Sydney on Monday night just
before people who wanted to know the meaning of
all this Sheffield Choir talk were on the point
of catching a tram to go and find out all about it
at the Town Hall. Possibly the storm disposed
of three thousand, but the five hundred who
attended did not seem to need enlightenment.
They were all anxious to add a song of praise, a
hurrah of welcome or a coin to the scheme about
to be arranged for a welcome to the greatest Choir
in the World. Mayor Allen Taylor, Attorney-
General Holman, Judge Heydon, Mr. F. W. Jack-
son and Mr. Beeby were amongst the speakers who
talked about the welcome, and as not one, off or
on the platform, was against it, the gathering
resolved itself into the Meeting Amicable, and
carried every resolution for cheering and cherish-
ing the Sheffielders in all the capitals of the
Commonwealth. A cable from the King arrived,
wishing the Musical Festival success, and taking
on the office of patron-in-chief.
** * *
Two young things, Iris and Rex de Cairos-
Rego. gave a recital at that centre of virtue, the
Y.M.C.A. Hall, on the Bth instant. Miss Iris,
who is still in the short frock and elephant’s ears’
bow stage, possesses a strong touch and exhibits a
fine command over the piano. She opened with
Chopin’s Sonata in B flat minor (a previous per-
formance of which was favorably reviewed in
Berlin), dosing the first half with Rubinstein’s Co-
ncerto in D minor, which was very fine. Mr. C. G.
Helleman played the orchestral parts on a second
piano. Her share of the programme also included
Alberto Jonas’s “Toccata,” a couple of Pierrot
pieces by Cyril Scott, and something else of Rubin-
stein’s and Moszkowski’s. Mr. Rex possesses a
baritone voice of medium quality. His entrance
number was Beethoven’s “Nature’s Adoration,”
mournfully sung, followed by a couple of
Brahms and Van Eyken songlets with unpro-
nounceable titles and of a dirgeful nature. In
one of them, “Sehmied Schmerz” (otherwise,
“Smith Grief”), by the Dutch composer, the
translator showed some originality, as witness
these two lines: —
Well forgeth grief. No storm can destroy.
No frost can splitter. The fetters he has forged.
In the second half, a composition of the singer’s
own, “She is a Maid of Artless Grace,” was in-
cluded, together with Schumann’s “ The Two
Grenadiers.” This last, which concludes with a
portion of the “ Marseillaise,” received rather a
lifeless rendering.
“BELLE OF BRITTANY ,” AT SYDNEY
CRI.
Bloomers and
Sabots. Percy
Clifton as the
Miller.
P. Gory as the
dandy Count
Casserole.
“Lucky Durham,” at Melbourne Royal,
may be expected to fill a managerial want for its
short season of three weeks only. The play is a
distinctive specimen of mild melodrama, free
from conventional heroics, fustian villainy and
puerile comic relief. The atmosphere of truth is
not in it, although some of the characterisation is
humanly natural. The situations are stagey, the
dialogue in many places is palpably strained for
effect— i.e., the question is merely a feeder for the
answer—and the motive of the meagre plot is false
in social sentiment. Wilson Barrett’s stage story,
written mainly for himself as the hero thereof,
could never be a real story of modern life, but is
told in plausible style ; and, as a literary compo-
sition, it is farther ahead of common or balderdash
bellowdrama than it is behind the best “ drawing-
room comedies.”
* * • *
An elderly English lord has mort-
gaged his estates up to the limit. He has a
showy, empty-headed wife, bent on wealthy mar-
riages for the son and daughter ; the son being a
weakling johnnie, and the daughter a harmless,
eccentric young woman weary of being urged to
catch a capitalist. A nice girl, with a large for-
tune, has been ear-marked for the weakling son.
Her dull, respectable father and his father, who
is neither dull nor very respectable, have arranged
the match ; and, if it comes off, the girl’s money
will dispose of the mortgages. Then John Dur-
ham comes along—American millionaire, born in
England 36 years ago; self-made man, whose
success and energy in business enterprise are only
excelled by his social virtues; almost an arch-
angel and quite a bachelor; lives with
his mother, God bless her! How such a
noble character has contrived to remain so
enormously rich is beyond all understanding.
He meets the eirl who is ear-marked for Resreie.
and loves her immediately. Also, vice versa. Then
he meets the lord’s family, and at last he conies
face to face with the lord and puts that mort-
gaged scion of a degenerating race to confusion.
Practically he “ throws off” at the noble lord,
and takes up the proud position of somebody who
knows something, but ain’t a-goin’ to tell.
Strictly considered, Durham is a high-grade cad.
He chaffs people quietly for the sake of appear-
ing clever in company. In the second act cir-
cumstances induce him to make the ultra-melo-
dramatic announcement that the lord is one of his
illegitimate parents. After which, the respect-
able father of the nice girl won’t hear of
her marrying the immaculate millionaire
in preference to racketty little Reggie, the
lawful son and heir of the mortgaged father afore-
said. Moral philosophy is wasted on the absurd
old gentleman. His prejudices re unstained
escutcheons are too strong. Nevertheless, his
daughter makes it clear to the audience that she
and John are bound to be married after all. John,
having the limited mental vision of a Wowser,
fails to perceive the inevitable, and affects to be
overjoyed when it dawns upon him just before
curtain-fall; but for the audience there is no ex-
citement in the gentle passion of John for Helen,
and vice versa. He’s a dead certainty for the
Altar Stakes ; as between him and Reggie there
can be no race. Besides, Reggie isn’t a trier. His
mission in the play is to minister to the splendid
magnanimity of John (whom he doesn’t suspect of
blood relationship) by borrowing money from
him. John has but one idea, which is unworthy
of a Nature’s nobleman. He thinks to arrive at
poetic justice by buying up all the mortgages,
turning his illegitimate father out of the ancestral
home, and springing his dear old mother upon the
family portraits by way of a surprise. Dear
mother will not permit this. In the very moment
of John’s ungodly triumph she comeson the scene
and bids him restore the disencumbered property
to his unworthy father ; so the prodigal parent is
left in possession, whilst Lucky Durham goes
away with his mother and his girl to bury his
fatted revenge. There are two or three morals to
the play, and one of them is that a millionaire
can afford to be magnanimous at vast expense.
* * # *
The motive of the plot is transparently
false. An immaculate millionaire who was the
son of a grocer could marry into the average
“county family.” If he were the admitted
bastard’of a lord his millions would buy him the
approval of the most respectable plain mister in
Britain. Didn’t The Bulletin ago
moralise on the case of Henry _ Savile,
the sporting millionaire, who had kings and
princes inquiring after his health when he
lay dj'ing! Savile was the son of a lord, it
seemed ; but whereas his half-brother, the law-
ful eldest son. had inherited the title, all the
family wealth that could be willed away
had gone to the “ love child.” Therefore
he cut a much bigger block of social ice
than the peer. He was the son of a lord,
and was worth a million or two—which is John
Durham’s position in the melodrama at Mel-
bourne Royal. It is inconceivable that the
lifelong friend and admirer of Lord Mountfallon
should regard his lordship’s illegitimate son (plus
celebrity and 10 million dollars) as an unthinkable
son-in-law. Also Lady M.’s complete ignorance
of John Durham’s relationship to her husband is
as inconceivable as her utter surprise at the news of
hubby’s ruin. The play is always artificial in its
tragic and sentimental episodes; but always, or
nearly always, bright and hearty in its comedy,
Reggie, the shallow young waster who pities no-
body but himself, is amusingly sketched, and his
mother and sister are likeably unconventional at
times.
• * * *
H. R. Roberts, in the name part, never
disguises the fact that he is an actor. His art is
polished, and he has the power to put force into a
purely theatrical situation; but his passion cannot
rise superior to his feminine mannerisms. He
adds sugar to an impossibly sweet character. In
beatific goodness he challenges comparison with the
divine lodger in “ The Third Floor Back.” Hugh
Buckler gives melodramatic color to the character
of the mortgaged lord without putting a touch of
exaggeration into the performance. Miss Beatrice
Day, as his decorative wife, feelingly upbraids
him for talking damnonsense about love at his.
time of life; and Kenneth Brampton scores a
popular success as the irresponsible Reggie. _ The
part doesn’t fit his personality, but he gets inside
it. Miss Richter’s somewhat ghostly voice strikes
a true note of pathos in one of Mrs. Durham’s
speeches. Miss Gretton is neat but unemotional as
Durham’s girl ; whereas facial expression runs to
extremes in Miss Bashford’s overwrought per-
formance of Bister Helen. And some of the other
acting is rather crude.
&* * *
At Melbourne Princess’s the gentleman
who merely put a lady to sleep with her own
dagger is still getting charged with wilful mur-
der; also the “ Umptidoodlums ” are endeavor-
ing, as before, to lure Cambourne into bigamy.
And some of the other people continue to try to
account for the title of the show by quoting it as
an answer to a solemn conundrum. A couple of
men discuss the question “Why Men Love
Women,” after which Miss Ross asks, “Why
do men love women ?” and the mystery of sexual
affection is not properly cleared up until one of
the men explains that in some cases it is not to be
wondered at. As a contribution to physiological
science the “Umptidoodlum” drama deserves to be
stuffed. Meanwhile, the company engaged in
discussing it brings some effective voices to bear
on the subject. Even the hoarse villain is effective
in his weird way, and of the others whose throats


The Rapid Healer.
Rexona provides the latest short cut of Science
to a complete remedy for pimples, boils, sores,
wounds, and skin diseases generally. Which road
will you take, reader ? The old-fashioned, tedious,
lorig way round, full of irritations, relapses and
delays; or the short cut to the rapid remedy which
modern Science has provided you in the shape of
Rexona. Sold in triangular pots at Is. 6d. and 3s. *
Modern Motor-Cars.
The new 1911 Wolseley cars which have just
been landed in Sydney are up to date in every
detail, and should appeal to the most exacting
purchaser. The cars are fitted with semi-torpedo
bodies, as this style is more suitable in a hot
climate like ours than a full torpedo body;
another desirable feature is the absolute silence of
running ; this is due to an improved worm drive,
which is always running in oil. Other noticeable
features are very large water pipes, accessibility
to working parts, and the total absence of compli-
cated levers, etc. When one considers that this
car is made by the well-known firm of Vickers,
Son and Maxim, there should be no doubt le|t in
one’s mind as to the quality or workmanship of
such a production.*
A Help in
Kidney Troubles.
WOLFE’S
SCHNAPPS.
are in good going order Wingfield is tremendous,
and R. W. Riley and Frederick Reade (a promis-
ing young beginner) are impressive spokesmen.
** * *
The panto, scored its hundredth night on
Monday of this week, and is patting itself on the
back with renewed enthusiasm. One night re-
cently the remarkable acrobats missed their turn
in consequence of a mishap to the hand of Pantzer
senior; but on all other occasions the panto, has
been full weight.
*# * *
This is the second and last week of the
poor, blind soldier’s “Revenge,” at the King’s.
On Saturday the Maxwell co. will revive “Woman
and Wine,” a Bland-Holtian drama which is suf-
ficiently old for the latest rising generation not to
have seen it.
** * *
At the Opera House the bill is as it was
last week ; but the American Dancers are just
about to go, and the space they leave vacant will
be rushed by new arrivals on Saturday.
#* * *
The big Beauty Competition has closed
amid enthusiasm at West’s Palace, Melbourne.
The winner of the show is said to be a vision
named Smith, and her complexion is described as
the prettiest mixture of peaches and cream. As
regards West’s Pictures, Saturday’s attractions
included two fine films showing “Waterfalls in
Sarpsborg, Norway,” and the manufacture of
Karlsbad porcelain and crystal ware. Also, there
was produced a flicker of “ East Lynne,” which
far surpassed the drama in having the merit of
silence and the virtue of brevity.
-* # * *
Nowanights the most popular institution
in Prahran (Vic.) is the handsome Lyric Theatre,
which was opened a few weeks ago. The Lyric,
like many recently-added places of amusement,
unfolds moving pictures as a matter of conscience
and public policy. These pictures, which look
unusually clear on a patent “Mack” screen, deal
mostly with dramas of love and life, stuffed with
moral points and bits of scenery. Films of modern
fact and ancient frivolity, like the Pathd Gazette
and “ The Finding of Moses,” are also features;
and there is always a liberal sprinkling of comedy
and travel subjects. In addition, there is the cus-
tomary orchestral music, which is turned on and
off at the discretion of a gifted Italian gentleman.
“ REVENGE,” AT
MELBOURNE
KING’S.
Richard Bellairs as the
Unhappy King.
Tom Cannam as the
French Nobleman.
At St. Kilda (Vic.) The Follies pursue
their course of passionless levity. Bert Ley wood
is still the best comedian of the troupe, and his
smile continues to be as far-reaching as his pro-
fessional reputation. The banter of Crossley, the
vociferous, continues to be heard in Tasmania;
and Henry Ross’s voice stirs romantic young
ladies to fine frenzies of gush. Daisy Silvester
adds complexion to the show; and George Lori-
mer makes a “hit” in a farce, “The Would-be
Actors,” presenting himself as a delicious noodle
with a purposeless gait and a vacuous eye.
** * *
The King’s Theatre, Adelaide, admitted
after a week’s experiment that its seating is not
arranged to the best advantage, and is closed till
Easter to alter things a bit. “The Dandies”
have gone back to their old location on the Exhi-
bition, where they somehow seem much more at
home. Adelaide certainly is the place for out-
door summer shows; while thq other cities have
been swamped, this one has not had more than a
useful shower or twosinceChristmas. “TheChanee
of a Lifetime ” is such a success at the Royal that
it is announced that the Horse will positively
Walk Downstairs for several more evenings.
At the Tivoli, dogs are the main attraction.
Whether all of them know just where they are
sending the ball is doubtful ; but certainly the
goal-keepers know, and, with all the players
doing their own barracking, the excitement is
continuous. West’s and the Empire are both
showing pictures of fox-hunting and “cow-punch-
ing,” and the former adds “ King George Opening
Parliament.” Best’s and the Casino are at the
head of the other shows. The Rink is starting
its winter session ; inter-State tennis and inter-
national cricket are sharing the Oval; Elford
Mack, a ’cellist departing for London, has had a
big farewell Town Hall concert; and Hardwick
is swimming all over the place. The Government
has made new watertight regulations for Sunday
shows ; the programmes simply have to meet with
the Chief Secretary’s approval, or the shows shut
up. By the way, when Sunday opening was abso-
lutely forbidden recently, three houses resolved to
chance it. At the last moment one of these
weakened, and determined to keep the Sabbath.
The others went ahead and prospered ; while the
pious one caught fire and was burnt down imme-
diately after ! If there is any moral to this story
it has got mislaid.
AT POVERTY POINT.
Apropos of some recent stage scenes, picture posters,
and newspaper advts., a London theatrical person of note
has remarked that, even though “ the drama may not
have gone to sleep, it has certainly gone to bed.” The
success of the comedy bedroom scene in “ Diana of Dob-
son’s," and the intensely dramatic bedroom scene in
“ The Thief,” seems to have caused an epidemic of bed-
steads in bellowdrama. Certainly, the heroine’s sleeping
apartment was always open to invasion by the villain of
bellowdrama. In the old days, however, the lady made
only a hollow pretence of retiring to rest, and if she
actually appeared in a beauteous stage “nighty,” she
usually discounted the effect of the situation by getting
between the sheets with her boots on. The children who
went to “ bye-bye ” did likewise in many cases. Nowa-
days, the climax of popular sensation is achieved by
femininity in a chemise, and the next new bellowdrama
will possibly be a startling advt. for a brand of corsets.
We shall have the heroine and her lady friend sitting on
the edge of the bed in the limelight and displaying the
mystic trade-mark letters on their respective environ-
ments.
“ Monkbarns ” : The mattocking up of Coppin, Morton
King and the Melbourne Parliamentary theatricals of old
may justify a little raking of the amateur ashes in that
city. For a long time there has been naught like the
yore-time. The last spurt was by Pat Duggan, brother
of Eugenie and Edmund. His Shakspearian productions
were remarkable ; unquestionably he evinced more talent
than Barry Sullivan at the same age. The Melbourne
Garrick Club achieved considerable excellence with per-
formances of “Hamlet,” “The Merchant of Venice,”
“ Money ” and other first-rate plays. The leading mem-
bers were Ireland and Batten ; and Jack (or Grosvenor)
Bunster also figured, with Harold Stephen in the later
time. The Histrionic Club came to excel the Garrick,
with such as W. Levey, a good leading man, brother of
G.C., J.A. and O. Levey. J. A. Levey came to the fore
afterwards. H. A. Bruce was really a fine comedian. I
think he took to the stage in America. The Oddfellows’
Dramatic Club did well. Zox, afterwards M.P., was a
member. Much later, the Dagonet Club brought for-
ward Inglis, one of Australia’s best professional leading
men. His name was Whalley. In a grand tableau of
Shakspeare’s leading characters, presented by the Gar-
rick Club at the Theatre Royal, Pitt, of the Garrick’s
Head, Bourke-street, figured as Shakspeare. This Pitt
was father of the theatrical architect. Pitt, senior, like
Boucicault, cultivated a likeness to the bard.
“F.”: Apropos that dramatic performance by Parlia-
mentarians in the old Theatre Royal, Melbourne, in 1861.
Joseph Wilkie, music seller, of Collins-street, and an
M.L.A., played one of the minor Venetian gentlemen.
He was the founder of the business now known as Allan
and Co., his manager being Robert Elvy, now of George-
street, Sydney.
From Claude McKay : Writing for a paper that special-
ises always involves certain risks at the hands of the lino-
type man. This is laughably apparent in an article
supplied to the Morning Telegraph, N’York, by Bert
Levy. The paper deals almost exclusively with the stage.
Therefore when Levy', becoming reminiscent on Aus-
tralian experiences, mentioned dreamily how he looked
from his hotel window one moonlit night and saw the
decaying poppet legs of the Bendigo mines, the copy-
setter considered it time to come to his rescue and ren-
dered it: “The decaying poppet legs of Bendigo mimes.”
“Myee”: The Rubaiyat of Omar (Fitzgerald’s transla-
tion) has been set to music by Granville Bantock, and
part of the composition will be sung by Sydney Lieder-
tafel on March 29. A ladies’ chorus has been added for
“The Beloved ” portions. A womanless “ Omar ” would be
such an incongruity that even the Liedertafel has to sus-
pend its rules and call on the eternal feminine for assist-
ance. Hugh Denison presented the music to the society.
The Bantock composer is a brother of Claude, Earl of St.
Ives, in the peerage of Miss Gibbs.
Died the other night at the d.c. entrance of Her
Majesty’s (Melbourne), an old Ballarat identity'—W. H.
Malyon, the chemist. He had come up from Ballarat
with his daughter, Clarice Malyon, who is connected with
the profesh, and they went to the panto as a matter of
course. During the interval the old fellow went down
stairs. The labor of coming up again seem* to
have been too much for his 85-year-old heart, for he
paused at the top of the staircase, and finally'collapsed at
the d.c. door. Turner, the doorkeeper, who had known
Malyon for about half a century, caught him in his arms
as he was falling dead.
“ Haresfoot ” : Madame Modjeska’s autobiography is
just issued, a delight to those who have picked up
snatches in the magazine publications. Truly actresses
beat actors in rerainiscenoe: Witness Modjeska, Bern-
hardt, Terry, Ristori and Clara Morris. Now Mrs.
Brough (re-married Bell) has her chance. Modjeska’s
first London appearance, in English, was in a play called
“ Heartsease,” with Wilson Barrett. It was a translation
of “ Camille,” smuggled past the Censor, who had refused
to pass the real thing for Bernhardt. King Edward, as
Wales, went to see “ Heartsease.” Says he to the
manager :“ Is not this ‘Camille’?” “Yes.” “H’m,”
says Ed, “I must see about it.” And Sarah was soon
acting Camille.
“0.K.”: Perish the thought advanced by “Harrison
O.,’’ that the character of Colonel Pom Pom in “The Gay
Grisette ” is a second edition of Baron Popoff of “ The
Merry Widow.” In the first place, the English-made
sausage of musical comedy was produced before the Ger-
man comic opera came to light. In the next place, there
is nothing original about Baron Popoff, the diplomatist,
which could be used in the manufacture of Colonel Pom
Pom, the fire-eater. Thirdly, there is no sort of
resemblance between the two characters, the resem-
blance being only in the methods of the two men
whom “ Harrison O ” has seen playing them. Fourthly',
the peppery little soldier with a weakness for the ladies
is the oldest type of character on the boards ; and to call
Pom Pom a “second edition ” is absurd. He dates back
to the genesis of comic opera. He’s the 9999th edition. By
the way, the opening scene in “ The Gay Grisette,” with
the ladies’ seminary dropping its many eyelids in the
presence of the lady principal, and the elderly “toff”
coming to visit his daughter, is palpably' adapted from
the opening scene of “ Tambour Major.”*
“ Condot ”: Several members of the Charles Dickens
family might have done well on the stage. Percy Fitz-
gerald, in an article in the Illustrated London Maga-
zine in 1893, mentions that in May, 1870, he staged some
private theatricals, at which Dickens was present. In “The
Prima Donna” the caste included Miss Mamie Dickens
and Mrs. Charles Collins, who were Dickens’s daughters.
Dickens had carefully trained them, and superintended
the rehearsals; and Fitzgerald says “they performed
admirably, as might be expected.” During the perform-
ance Dickens kept himself “ secluded and shrouded from
observation.” After the play was over he was found by
son-in-law Collins behind the scenes, seated in a corner
in a dreamy state and abstracted. He said he thought
he was at home. Within a week Dickens was dead.
Early in life Dickens solicited an engagement at Covent
Garden Theatre. There is in existence a letter written to
the manager (Bartley), in which Dickens told him that he
believed he was cut out for a stage career.
“ Count Hannibal ” is such a success in London that,
after 100 performances, Oscar Asche added Thursday
afternoon to the previous Wednesdays and Saturdays—
nine performances a week.
The recently-floated Brennan’s Amphitheatre, Ltd., is
pushing into Brisbane, where it has secured a 10 years’
lease of the Theatre Royal—the place which Ted Holland
vacated at the end of last year. During the last couple
of months the Royal has had an overhaul, and will be a
cosy enough place when it is re-opened shortly.
Albert Morley, Australian basso and composer of songs,
has forsaken the stage, and now runs a picture show in
Mount Morgan (Q.) —the place where he first bowed to
the gods. His “ Sleep, Sailor, Sleep ” was his best com-
position, and he could sing it, too.
“St. S.”: Who is “Mile. Golda, the Australian
soprano”? She made a successful first appearance at
London Hippodrome last month, and the Referee of the
Foggy Village says she is “gifted with a sweet voice of
excellent range—created a decidedly pleasing im-
pression.”
George Stephenson has engaged Miss Phyllis Hopwood-
Foldi, the clever Australian entertainer, for a Maori-
land tour with his musical company, “The Wan-
derers.” Alfred Linley', lessee and manager of the King’s
Theatre, Wellington, will conduct the tour, which will
start at Wellington on April 15.
Adelaide Bruce, the Victorian girl whose fine voice has
recently' almost recompensed the Ma State for all the
wrongs she has suffered through the machinations of
Victoria, has been engaged to sing at the Irish annual
concert in the Sy’dney’ Town Hall on St. Patrick’s Night.
As Dill Macky did not ask her to sing “The Boyne
Water” or “The Protestant Boy,” the lady has decided
on “The Irish Emigrant ” and “ Come Back to Erin.”
“ H. 0.” : I have been waiting for some Right Thinking
paper to kick against the marriage-ceremony' burlesques
which have happened at Melbourne theatres during the
GERARD COVEN-
TRY, J.G. William-
son’s Panto. Pro-
ducer.
past few weeks. They started
with “ The Bad Girl of the
Family,” which play contained
two marriages, performed on
the quick-lunch principle, in
view of the audience. In
one case, the bride, at the
conclusion of the ceremony,
drew back her veil so that the
villain might behold that, in-
stead of taking the foam-white
heroine for spouse, he had, in
reality, been snared into wed-
ding the Bold Girl of the Bed-
room. In “The Gay Grisette ”
there is another marriage cere-
mony. The usual questions are
chanted by the comic parson of
the piece, and the answers are
intoned by the guilty parties.
After the job has been done,
the girl, who fondly but fool-
ishly imagines that she has
been hitched to an earl, dis-
covers that she is fastened
to the belted one’s mentally-
deficient valet, disguised for the
occasion in a couple of yards of
muslin. The ceremony which
Andrew Fisher and his ruffians
desire to abolish is again
travested in “ Why Men Love
Women,”in which drammerthe
god-Hke but “ jugged ” hero is
joined in holy wedlock to his devoted donah, so that
she may giving- evidence against him on a charge
of murder. The lady stands outside the prison, and her
unfortunate young bloke thrusts his arm between the
bars of his cell window, and they are made man and
missus by a stray bishop, or sexton, or some such per-
son, who happens to be wandering around in a nightshirt.
“ Haresfoot ”: The only apparent fault in the Mel-
bourne biograph “Mystery of a Hansom Cab” is that the
mystery is given away. But is this a fault ? Does the
biograph follow the novel rule or the drama rule ? In the
novel you must keep up the mystery. Where would
“ The Woman in White” and “ The Moonstone ” be other-
wise ? Yet in the successful dramatisation of “The
Woman in White”—2ooo nights, with Wybert Reeve as
Fosco—the mystery was given away. > On the other hand,
they tried keeping up the mystery in the dramatic
“Moonstone,” and the audience wouldn’t stand being
treated thus. It failed. As a rule, the audience must
have the key, while only the performers are mystified.
Nevertheless, in the successful plays of “ Victorine ” and
“Kathleen Mavourneen ” jnd the opera of “Ma Mie
Rosette ” the audience is cheated into believing a dream
real. These, however, are only exceptions to the rule.
Apropos a very effective biograph just shown is named
“ Comedy and Tragedy.” A French countryman and his
wife go to see their daughter, an actress in Paris. They
find her rehearsing with a stage villain, who shoots her.
Horror ! But the daughter jumps up all right. Then
her real lover comes and shoots her. The poor parents
think this is acting, too.
Bert Levy stated recently that dramatist Henry' Arthur
Jones told him that he (Jones) had sold the rights of
“The Silver King” to the Williamson, Garner and Mus-
grove firm for £5O. According to Henry.Bridgland (of S.
French Ltd.), in a recent London Era, the old bellow-
drama easily stands first as the record cash-raker in the
history of the stage. First put on in ISB2, it has never
been off since, in one part or another, and is computed to
have earned well over a million to date. ‘
“E.F.P.”: Some people say there is a shortage of
money in Maoriland just now, but I dunno. Nobody
appears to be going short of beer, divorces are keeping up
a fair average, the tote is growing more bloated weekly,
and the careworn theatrical manager is a rare bird. Was
in Wanganui, a town of about 8000 inhabitants, the other
night when “ The Dollar Princess," Wirths’ Circus and a
picture show were all simultaneously crowded out. For
the first-named show the booking office was advertised to
open at 8 o’clock on a Friday morning. Before 3
o’clock the first woman had arrived ; and the subsequent
proceedings were illuminated by bike lamps, candles,
torches until daylight, when a successful first night was
assured. It's a great show country, all right.
The vanguard of new attractions engaged by the Taits
will shortly be unshipped in Australia. The first to ap-
pear will be Blaschek and Miss Mildred Wrighton, who
will do that indefinite thing referred to as “society enter-
taining.” Subsequently, Miss Margaret Cooper will juggle
with a piano, and Nicola will then arrive from India with
“ the largest conjuring company ever seen on the planet.”
If nothing happens to spoil his plans, Joseph McCabe
will make another lecturing tour of Australia in 1913.
And if nothing happens to spoil his plans, R. S. Symthe
will be the pilot.
“My!”: Why will Australians turn into foreigners
when pursuing the laurel wreath ? “ Mile. Vivia de
Varennes,” who made her debut recently at Vienna, is
Miss Eastermorn Waller, formerly a pupil of Henri Staell,
of Sydney. One would think that a lady with the
Christian name of Eastermorn would be so obvious in
the musical firmament that she could desire no better
trimmings.
“ Vaudevillain ”: Ethel Loftus, at the Opera House, is
distinctly the star. Little, with a big head, and an
amazing full moon of a face, yet handsome—a compound
of Maggie Moore, Peggy Pryde, Humpty Dumpty and a
Stilton Cheese. I never saw a woman with such facial
expression, backed by the richest humor—and a cracked
voice, susceptible of appalling bursts “What shall we
do with father?” It is incomparable. There used to be
Marie Loftus, mother of Cissie, who developed into a
Marie Lohr. Melbourne Opera House also has Lucia
Collins, Lottie’s daughter, and a better artist than ever
Lottie was. She revives the sharp contrast of the demure
young widow in black, with the scarlet underclothing,
for Ta-.ra-ra jumps. Lottie had another daughter, whose
death spoiled her enjoyment of glory ; but the Austra-
lian voyage was a balm.
“Floater”: At London Palace Theatre, 10 years ago,
Anna Held gave Britain its first taste of foreign naughti-
ness in broken English. The song with which she won
the great heart of the nation was called, “Oh won’t
you come and play wiz me?" Now Anna has been
giving the same public some fragments of her bio-
graphy. She is of “mingled Polish and French de-
scent,” and was born in Paris. When her parents
died she trudged through London looking for work.
She got a job at a Yiddish theatre, and played “old
woman ’’ parts for the apparition of a salary. At the
time she was 13, and just learning the value of the eyes
that wouldn’t behave. Subsequently she toured the Con-
tinent, and, as she vaguely puts it, “ did all sorts of
things.” One of the things was to take the part of a
postage stamp in a revue, when her costume consisted
mainly of three feathers and a stamp in her hair. Lat-
terly, Anna had a tremendous boom in America, and has
now acquired the propriety which so often marches with
affluence. A result is that she doggedly refuses, these
days, to sing a song in less than half a bodice.
“S.S.” : A remnant of the old nigger minstrel scheme
remains in Australian vaudeville in the shape of the end
man. He still occupies the corners, although the circle
of blacked coons, the interlocutor, and every other
feature of the minstrel first-part have passed out. Why
is he kept on ? Certainly not for his virtues, since there
is onlv one fairly good end man left in Australia, and he
grows* old, and his schemes pall on a nation that has been
watching them for 20 years. Irving Sayles is a brisk and
cheerful corner comedian to those who have not seen too
much of him. Charley Cogill was another. Horace
Bent was a third. But the breed was rare even in the
best days of nigger minstrelsy, and the end man survives,
although the end man’s happy faculty is dead. It is high
time an end was put to the end man.
“Exile” (from London): “Henry VIII.,” by Shak-
speare has, at time of writing, been played by Beerbohm
Tree and Arthur Bourchier 200 times. The show is char-
acterised by great sumptuousness, and is remarkable for
its pageantry. Several actors who have been in Australia
have leading parts, the best of the first-rankers being
Basil Gill, whose part, nevertheless, would have been
still better played by that sterling Australian mummer,
Cyril Keightley, now succeeding in New York. I saw
Julius Knight' three seats away, looking bored and
sleepy. I did not catch sight of his legs, so have nothing
to report.
“ D.” : The late J. 0. Neild publicly dis-
owned the Orange Pup some years ago. In the
circumstances, I was amazed to identify the
animal at his funeral. There it was in the form
of one small Wowser, clad in a rusty bowler hat
and an Ally Sloper umbrella, and ribboned like
an A., H. and P. Show prize-winner. In a wholly -
rational country, Derryites, Hibernians and such-
like absurdly-clad folks would be legally prevented
from turning pathos into bathos.
N.S.W. Full Court, after a lengthy argu-
ment, has decided that the Sydney Harbor Trust
is not exempt from the Employers’ Liability Act.
The ground for contending otherwise was that the
Crown is exempt, and that Commissioners ap-
pointed by the Crown to do work that the
Crown would otherwise have to do itself
were similarly exempt. The Court, how-
ever, decreed that the Trust is not a Government
department, but a separate entity, and in the
same relationship to the Act as ordinary em-
ployers. Which was a weighty judgment, but
not nearly so heavy as the Costs; and when their
Honors announced that the verdict didn’t touch
the point as to whether the Crown itself did or
did not come under the Act, the Bar, scenting an-
other dip in the lucky bag, was with difficulty
restrained from giving three cheers.
The dear old Australasian predicted that
Protection and _the Labor party would drive
capital out of the country and. ruin the primary
producer; and this, on its own showing, is how
the dreadful thing is being done :
The Nestle and Anglo-Swiss Condensed Milk Company
commenced operations on Saturday last at Dennington
(Vic.). The buildings and plant have cost about £60,000,
and when work is in full swing the wages will amount to
between £4OO and £5OO weekly. A receiving station has
been erected at Mailer’s Flat, from which supplies will be
sent to the condensery.
Now the same crowd is predicting more dreadful
disasters if the people vote “ Yes.” But it seems
about time to cancel that crowd’s prophetic
license. It may be all right as a racehorse
tipster ; but in politics it hasn’t picked one winner
in 10 years.
The destr.oyers Parramatta and Yarra have
the honor of being the father and mother of the
Australian navy-to-be, and to celebrate their entry
into Port Jackson next Wednesday (March 22)
various official and unofficial welcomes have been
arranged, to conclude with a naval “demonstra-
tion ” on a big scale in the evening at the Sydney
Cricket Ground. The men from the British war-
ships in port will be present, and the occasion
should be one worthy of a good position in th«
annals of the six-starred flag.
SAUSAGE-DAY AT THE KAISER’S.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
New Year’s Day is one of the busiest in the busy Kaiser’s
calendar. Immediately after the soup is served, three
master butchers are ushered into the luncheon hall.
Their spokesman removes his butcher’s cap and greets
the Kaiser in verse. His Majesty' immediately causes
sausages to be served to his guests, and, after he has par-
taken of them himself, he customarily addresses some
jocular words of approval to the deputation. During the
next two or three days the delegation distribute sausages
among the other members of the royal family and the
Cabinet .—Melb. daily.
I rise me mit der lark, und don
Der uniform vot’s dustable,
Und very carefully put on
Der stomach-band adjustable.
I hie me oop to chapel, vere
Dey preaches me, mit flatteries ;
Den next review, in open air,
Der troops und all der batteries.
Den oop dey forms, und out I shout
Mein talk so brief und sermony,
Und wave der silver sword about
Und boast oop yunker Germany.
Und den—ah, den I sits me crowned.
To vait der inner gomforting ;
Und loose der stomach-band all round
Amid der trombones’ trumpeting.
Den in der Master-Butchers troop
In scarlet trappings dutiful,
Und serve der sacred sossage oop
Mit poetry' so beautiful.
Und round und round der sossage goes
All hearts mit pleazure capturing,
While Master-Butchers’ serried rows
Sing “ Hoch der Kaiser ! ” —rapturing.
Ach Gott, how sweet dot lieberwurst
Der gift of loving loyalty 1
Ach, noble Day ! Vell-nigh I burst
Mit sossages und royalty !
I clean der plate ; I vipe der lips
Und crack, ’mid salvo-gunnery,
In jointed syllables der quips,
Der simple Deutscher punnery.
Und last I takes meinself to rest,
To live, in slumber’s nursery
Once more in dream, dot Day of Zest—
Der Sossage Anniversary 1
VICTORIA.
WILHELM BLAUHOTTEL.


MEN’S ORIENT CLOTHING.
READY TO WEAR.
SAC SUIT, as illustrated, 35|-
THIS Suit is the very latest cut, an accurate fit, and the
materials are of the highest quality. For the new season
we have a splendid range of materials—the popular Switch
Tweeds, in good, strong qualities are well represented Grey
Herringbone Mixture, with Navy Stripes, Fight Giey
Mixture, with Colored Fancy Stripes; Dark Frown Mixture
with Dark Brown and Blue Stripes; Bronze Mixture, with
Purnle and Brown Stripes; Dark Grey, with Green and
Purple-striped effect. Fine Twill Navy Serge, pure Indigo
in all sizes from 3 to 10£ -
WE PAY CARRIAGE on all goods except Furniture,
Covering Kitchen and Hardware to any part of the Com-
monwSth Only on Toys when ordered with other goods.
DAVID JONES LTD.,
Opp. G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
ĝh
i
y
Don’t Select a Camera
WITHOUT CONSULTING US.
HARRINGTONS’
CAMERAS
are the PICK OF THE
WORLD’S BEST
MAKERS.
AT PRICES FROM 5/= UPWARDS.
A PERUSAL OF OUR 400-PAGE ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
WILL CONVINCE YOU. FREE FOR THE ASKING.
Harringtons Ltd.,
386 GEORGE STREET (near G.P.0.), SYDNEY.
And at MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, ADELAIDE.
SOCIETY
HIS VIEW AND HERS.
ARTIST: “ Did you pick up any works of art in
Paris?”
FAIR ONE (just returned): “ Yes, but I wont be
able to wear it for another six months—it's
quite TOO new-fashioned.”
“ Isaac Gumboil, J.P.,” his affidavit
And Sydnej' is a Wowseristic city, sadly in need of stirring-
up ! Nay, “ Augustus Blowfly ” (B. 2/2/’ll). Verily, thou
hast spent thy days upon thy back in Hyde Park; thy
heeding absorbed in aged issues of the Argus ; thy soul
adrift with memories of thy homeland o’er the seas. Lo, I,
a stranger also in this city, gainsay thee. For, one day in
the streets was I arrested by the murmuring of a multi-
tude ; sounds of violence and great tumult, which choked
the highway before me. From the centre of that heaving
mass there sounded angry curses, a clashing of steel and
cries of pain. Ever and anon, through the shifting gaps,
I saw the raising of pavement-stones, the throwing up of
earthworks and barricades. At times the struggling
central figures were exposed to my view ; some wore a
semblance of uniform ; others, singlets and trousers be-
spattered with clay ; a few wore badges or brass buttons.
One of these mounted the barricade and began to har-
angue and instruct the crowd in tones of command ; but,
alas ! he was quickly laid low by a clod of clay. On the
outskirts of the gathering small boys dashed about with
news-sheets, monotonously chanting : “ Daily war news .
Account of the street upheavals!” I was about
to seize one of these noisy vermin, when sud-
denly a burlv form I had noticed earlier in the
conflict leapt into view and towered o’er the strug-
gling atoms about him. There was a glint of steel
o’er his head as he whirled a length of gas-piping on high ;
then something flashed through the air and, lo . the
flat of a shovel struck resoundingly on his stummick and
sent him hurtling into oblivion ! Instantly there arose a
roar of malicious triumph... Heavens! Was it the
great Bruce Smith that fell? But, nun—no ! That could
not be. Was he not reported the previous evening to
be valiantlv opposing the Australian Forces at Peter-
sham !. . . * I could stand the suspense no longer.
Snatching a paper from a passing boy, I agitatedly read
thus : “ In addition to the road-openings in the declaration
of Jan. 25, the Deputy P.M.-General threatens an
attack on the South Head-road within three weeks. . .
A detachment of the S. and 3. Hydraulic Power En-
gineers are about to lay an underground main from Bay-
street, to Mountain-street. .. Two determined Tramway
Forces .are entrenched in Quay-street and Campbell-street.
... Reported that two companies of the City Surveyors
Brigade are advancing on Day-street and George-street N.
The allied forces of the Gas Ligh f , Electric Eight and
Water and Sewerage Boards are about to descend in open
order upon the city, encompassing an area of 14 streets.
Unless the City Surveyor’s and Tramway’s Forces eva-
cuate, a crushing defeat is inevitable... It is hoped that
peace will be restored by Easter; when the dissenting
forces, each having their dominions allotted them, the
streets will assume their normal appearance.” Great
Referendum ! Sydney slow?. .. What with inflammatory
Tory-Press leaders; that dangerous, dare-devil revolu-
tionary, B. Smith ; and the city corporation laborers—
why, the city’s in a perpetual state of stirring-up !
* * * *
From an Australian in New York :
On the Great White Way one moves between myriad
revolving and gyrating lights which flash the virtues of
Sox, Toothpaste and Side-shows ; hears the rumble of
Germans, the ripple of French, the splash of Polish ; sees
Hindoo, Turks and other aliens ; smells nigger; and
feels good Australian all the time. But I’ll put
in a word for the Broadway policeman whose
forte is directing strangers to the post office.
With one arm round the seeker’s waist—males only—he
waves explanations and instructions with the other, the
while directing traffic with his leg and keeping an eye on
an old lady who wants to cross. As soon as you are
safely on the kerb and started on the right track
he flits away, collects six children in one hand and
the old lady in the other, and while all the traffic
curses the delay, lands his cargo on the other
side. He’s a proud mortal, especially if mounted.
But where, and oh where, is the great American hustle J
Let it be breathed—it’s a myth. It isn’t there. It cant
be found. No two pedestrians in New York ever collided
with fatal results, as has happened in Melbourne. The
New Yorker’s motto is : “ Don’t kill yourself,” and New
York is the States. It has been remarked that Melbourne
is somewhat American. In this hustle business America
is somewhat Melbournian. Some Australians dwelling
with Uncle Sam find things so easy that they are
loath to return; others who are going to get
back to the land of gums voice the fear that there
will be difficulty in picking up the running again.
A remarkable thing is that the pronounced American
type and accent is more defined with the women, especi-
ally the young girls and the children, than among the
men. I noticed a similar phenomenon with the Maori-
landers. Environment finds women and children more
plastic. Still, even a man doesn’t need to live long under
the eagle’s wings to be able to take ice-creanr while watch-
ing the snow falling. And it no longer seems a marvel to
see waggons delivering ice in the height of a snowstorm,
though the Lord and the Americans only know what it’s
for. Perhaps it’s to keep the Hustle in storage.
“ Norseman ” : The Bulletin spoke true
words the other day when it said that, though
Australia had no right to tell Fiji
how to manage its imported
niggers, it had every right to in-
quire how it did manage its
niggers, and shut out the Fiji
sugar if the conditions were found
to be bad. The shilling-a-day
coolies, male and female, have
their allotted tasks; and if they
don’t perform them they are
liable to fine. Lately, six women
were charged with this crime.
The personal condition of these
women was evident. To do the
magistrate justice, he trounced
the. overseer properly. Had he
no eyes ? Could his wife work in
such a condition? Would he
permit his wife to do it? No!
On no account! The indignant
magistrate said he would ap-
proach the Government with
regard to these and similar cases.
Every white man in the court
gave three cheers as silently as
“order in the court” would
permit. Result: (1) Women discharged ; (2) over-
seer sent off with some more red-hot words;
(3) the Government will be approached. So we
can be certain that a report will be asked for—
and we can be almost as certain that it will be
pigeon-holed.
The Papanui, which was crippled on the
rocks at Tasmania, and subsequently fled from
Melbourne in order to get itself repaired in
Japan, is on its way back to Australia to try
to pick up a load of Coronation trippers. The
boat mav now possibly be classed A 1 at Nagasaki;
but since the dropping-out of the Waratah and
the abortive inquiry which followed, the ocean
traveller who thinks about these details hasn t
much confidence in any deep-sea hall mark. All
that he can be sure about with regard to the
Papanui is that it fled oversea to get itself re-
paired at a place where ship-repairing is cheap.
A MATTER OF TASTE.
WAITER: “ How would you like your steak, sir?”
GUEST (who has been waiting 20 minutes): “ Very much indeed!"
“Sarah” : “Our women shan’t wear
trofisers ! ” cried the men of Buda Pesth when
the harem skirt appeared among them :
Our women ! Man declines to see
That we are quite as good as he.
“ Two hearts that beat as one,” he chants —
It is his ideal, his romance.
If heart-beats, tell me, why not pants?
In Melbourne cremation has got a lift
along the way that is blocked and barricaded by
ancient anil insanitary prejudices. A poor
woman had her six-months-old son buried by the
Coburg Cemetery Trust on January 28. Eight
days later, after a spell of heavy rain, she visited
the burying place and found the grave full of
water and the baby’s coffin floating. She looked
ut> the sexton, but got no satisfaction ; so she
went to the Board of Health about it. When the
Board’s inspector visited the swamp, he found
that the crowded death-hole had had six other
children buried in it, the practice being to spread
9in. of earth over each coffin and keep galvanised
iron over the top pending the arrival of the next
corpse. When this report was laid out stark and
stiff before the Trust, the chairman sorrowfully
remarked that “it would cost a tremendous
amount of money to make a grave for
every stillborn or very young child.” So
the 'Trust just drops a few dozen of the cor-
rupting corpses into a hole, and sprinkles an
inch or two of soil over the mass ; and when the
neighborhood smells something unpleasant, it
blames the cat or a mouse—it never dreams that
it is the corpse of its own infant. If it did, it
would probably go out and blacken the Trust’s
eye, and thereafter yell lustily for the abolition of
cemeteries and the adopcion of the only clean,
wholesome and sanitary method of corpse-
disposal.
Although mixed bathing along the fore-
shores of Port Phillip Bay is now a settled habit,
the Melbourne suburban councils of Brighton and
Moorabbin still refuse to be officially aware of it.
The other day Moorabbin was asked to put up a
few bathing screens at a cost of a tenner a-piece ;
but declined, chiefly becauseaFat landlord named
Adamson averred they might lead to immorality.
Also the Bumbles refused to erect a couple of 20ft.
sheds. Apparently, therefore, Moorabbin’s
bathers will have to keep on undressing in the
open —in the interests of morality.
“ Augustus Blowfly ” —his Harbor idyll :
The small, apoplectic drunk, with the red whiskers,
lurched heavily into a seat on the all-night ferry. His
thin, white-faced companion fell into a sitting posture
beside him and ejaculated “ Hie 1 ” The little man
turned angrily upon him.
“’Oo pays fer yer board an’ tucker?” he demanded
fiercely.
“ Hie ! You do,” responded the thin inebriate.
“’Oo lent yer them second-’and striped trousers yer
wearin’ of?”
“ Hie 1 You did.”
“ An’ ’oo paid fer th’ crayfish wot’s bulgin’ outer yer
pocket now?”
“ Hie! You did.” ,
The little man rose from his seat and pranepd. An
now,” he roared, “ an’ now I serpose yer'll come along to
my house, an’ eat th’ fish off my table with yer boots
on th’ cloth, an’ drink my beer. Yer will, will yer?
“ Hie ! Cert’n’ly,” replied the thin man drowsily.
“ Then w’y,” breathed the other murderously, as the
ferrv slowed down for Balmain, “ W’y ain’t I goin’t catch
yer by th’ scruff an’ pass yer a couple afore I ’eaves yer
sprawling inter th’’arbor? W’y ain’t I?”
The thin man spat into the churn of the screw', ana
pulling a dilapidated crayfish out of his trousers, smelt it
carefully before replying.
“ ’Cos I’m th’ Bailiff,” he answered finally.
And with an air of bored proprietorship he led the way
home across the gangway.
* * * *
Members of a Melbourne church body,
discussing the coming trouserette, venture to hope
that “the ladies will observe those laws with
regard to costume that have been respected by
their mothers for thousands of years.” But this
is a case in which the ladies, looking at the old
laws, may consider themselves more honored in
the breech than the observance.
THE SUPERIOR HOME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It was more like a home than a hash-house when the bell
rang for breakfast, with brains
And tomatoes, or bacon and hen-fruit, ere the boys pal-
loped off for their trains.
It was just like a home, at a guinea, when the time came
for luncheon with chops,
And a couple of entrees and salad and beef-lea a cut
above slops.
Then, again, at the clash of the tea-bell, when we
gathered once more at the trough,
There was never a hash-housely taste in the butter, a little
bit off ;
There was never a fly in the milk-jug, nor a flavor of soap
in the cake,
For the same was selected with judgment from the best
of the twice-a-week bake.
It was more like a home than a hash-house, and the boys
were a satisfied lot
When they came in at nightfall for tucker, for some trifle
well-seasoned and hot;
When, right on the tick, it was ready, we were ready as
well, every time,
For the mutton, with trimmings, was lamb-like, and the
beef off the brisket was prime,
And the three or four green-stuffs were tender, and all
grown by a white man, of course ;
And if ever we did have a hash—why, it was never com-
pounded of horse ;
And the tea was a brand at two shillings [if one didn’t
want ale, understand]. . .
Yes, indeed !. . . more a home than a hash-house of the
old, pokey, cash-grabbing brand.
On the Sabbath, of course, there was chicken, roast or
boiled, and with stuffing, or not;
And the bones were embrothed on the Monday, with a
savory stock in the pot;
And if rabbit was served on occasions, it was splendidly
garnished and dished
By a cook who was paid like a cook, sir, and who cooked
as a king might have wished ;
And the lonely old loafers and gossips whose retreat is
the Tower of Hash,
Well, somehow', they could never get in there, our home-
loving spirits to dash
With their cackle of days when they starred it, in dim
spheres that were somewhat remote
IFrom their later existences, spent at a guinea per table
d'hdte.
lit was more like a home than a hash-house, and a guinea
a time did we pay,
And no more ; and the landlady prospered in a really re-
markable way.
Yet. . . why do I now pay my good gold out for refresh-
ment that leads to the morgue,
And sit opposite meat that is tougher than meat that is
flung to the dorg ?
Ask me now why I lurk in a hash-house, and blow my
good guineas on mush,
And put up with a half-hearted hand-out like the scran
at an eight o’clock rush ?
Well, the fact is—pray, smother your laughter, do not
add to my troubles with mirth !
j|v Superior Home is a dream, sir ! Why , there ain’t no
sick place upon earth !
VICTORIA.
THE GUINEA PIG.


II
i
®s
M
ghgh
ts
m.
For all
domestic uses
Half the toil of
household work Ss
done away with
when Sunlight
Soap enters j
JNfejthe home.
NO. 67. GUARANTEED UNDER THE
“PURE FOOD ACT, 1S08,”
BY LEVER BROTHERS LIMITED,
SYDNEY, N.S.W. No. 67.
Hunyadi
I Janos(
Is the Best
Natural Aperient Water
{ Bottled at the Springs
I Used the World Over
la Drink on arising a wineglassful for
f INDIGESTION and
1
mi . ,4tJi S, m, <P ■ ~ ':
If you want something really good in the way
of razors or razor strops, buy the Diamond Edge brand,
the best that money can buy. Razors 7s. 6d. and 10s. 6d.
each. Strops 6s. Sold only by the Sole Agent, T. Wild,
Vice-Regal Hairdresser, 30 Sydney Arcade; entrance
from George or King Streets, Sydney.*
■
fit
h 4:
Warmth without Weight
in this Shirt!
THE next few months finds the weather full of vagaries—
this Shirt will give you great comfort and perfectly pro-
tect you against chills.
The material is fine, unshrinkable Oevlon Flannel that we
buy direct from the manufacturers in designs of our own
exclusive choosing—colors in quiet grounds with relieving
stripes, and in brighter stripes in shades of Green, Blue and
Helio.
The Shirt has unshrinkable neckbands, with turnback cuffs,
or band cuffs to button.
All sizes in stock—one soft collar included with each Shirt.
Just the garment to wear NOW.
Price 9s.
Postage
6d. extra.
Peapes & Co. Ltd.
“MEN’S OUTFITTERS,”
309=311 George Street, Sydney.
“ Puketapu ” slices a bit off the past :
That Bulletin story of the capture of a Maori mur-
derer and his delivery to the police like a trussed fowl,
recalls another told me by T. W. McKenzie, “ the father
of Wellington,” who died the other day; and his word
was good enough. In the early ’4o’s the gaol at Welling-
ton was close to the beach ; arid amongst the prisoners
were five or six convicts who, after escaping from van
Demon’s Land, had been captured in M.L., and were
awaiting transport. These unfortunate wretches were
leg-ironed, but were otherwise free, and were permitted
to hobble about the beach. One day a six-oared whale-
boat was brought to the edge of the water, and, whether
by arrangement or carelessness, the crew deserted her
and hurried into the settlement. Two minutes later
there was a rattle of irons, and the half-dozen immi-
grants from Tassy precipitated themselves into the boat,
pushed off and rowed for the open sea. A hue and cry
was promptly raised, and two or three boats were sent in
pursuit; buc liberty is a wonderful incentive to rapi
movement, and the escapees held their lead into Good
Strait, where the chase was abandoned. The next thin*
the authorities did was to issue a proclamation, offering
a good purse for the capture of the poor devil g
and about a week later the boodle was claimed b s ,
a party of Maoris. It turned out that thv
whaleboat had been driven ashore at Pallisee
Bay, and after desperate exertion all hands had gor
ashore. Unfortunately, two days later they fell in witt
a party of natives who had got wind of the reward, werb
nmii.eed upon, triced up with flax, thrown into canoee
1 k? so many pigs for market, and conveyed back tos
Wellington. From there they went on to Tasmania,
where one or two of them were hanged. I didn’t ask the
old man where they went after that. Probabb 7 he didn’t
know ; and, anyhow, it couldn’t have been worse than
Port Arthur.
A month’s pounding by the surf in Disaster
Bay has put the wrecked steamer New Guinea out
of business for good; and the N.S.W. Marine
Court has suspended the master’s certificate for
six months from the time the ship shot out of the
fog on to the rocks. Judge Murray, after an-
nouncing that the stranding was caused by the
default of the master in navigating the ship “on
a circuitous inside course in order to avoid the
current, keeping the engines at full speed at a
time when the fog prevented him from seeing the
land,” handed out some very severe remarks to the
mariner; after which the boss of the lost cargo
galleon turned up his coat collar and walked out
into the rain. The gentleness of the Court
towards the man it had so roundly condemned
incites the unbiassed onlooker to ask two ques-
tions : (1) Why is the average master of a cargo
vessel so anxious to make quick passages that he
will hug the shore even in foggy weather? and (2)
Why is the Marine Court so anxious to let him
down lightly when the smash comes? A man does
not risk his precious “ticket” and the lives of his
crew for the love of the thing. What induces or
compels him to take the chances? Perhaps the
Marine Court has an inkling.
EN SUITE.
"When I met that
woman last year her
hair was grey. Now
it's black."
“ Oh, yes. You see she’s lost her husband since
then.”
One of the few callings still
utterly unorganised in Sydney is
that of the warehouse employee ;
and the wages are just what
might be expected. In one big
house, whose profits cause the
absenteeEnghsh shareholders
to blossom into annual smiles
of satisfaction, the “second
hand,” after 15 or 16 years’ ser-
vice, gets a fraction over £3 a
week. The “ second ” has to be
competent to take charge when the
comparatively affluent department
head is away, and practically needs to
know enough to run the show. Yet
his only chance of getting a decent
wage is when some other house wants
a “ head,” opportunities which he
grows grey in waiting for. As
for the working conditions of the
rest of employees, a Wages
Board would disinter some interest-
ing facts. Nominally, these people
should come under the Shop
Assistants and Warehouse Em-
ployees’ Federation, hut in practice
they hold aloof, and the union has
been too busy with the retail hands
to do more than say, “Your turn
next.” Meanwhile there is a
sporadic discussion in the press,
started by one with more spirit
than his brethren. Whereupon
half a dozen fellow-slaves has
ten into print to point out
the honor of working in a fluff
warehouse, and to express their
dread of anv attempt to better
conditions, because “it might dis-
turb friendly relations with the
employer.” They never carry the
matter any further—don’t, for in-
stance, explain how much bread-and-
butter the friendly relations boil
down to. The same men, no doubt,
continue to put up with toothache
for a year for fear of disturbing
the friendly relations between
themselves and a rotting stump.
A new city industry was
nipped in the bud, or the early
morning, or somewhere, the other day.
when a man was fined £2 for illegally dis-
charging artillery at rabbits within sound of
the G.P.O. The scene of operations was the
timber stacks on the south side of the Yarra;
going out at daylight, the marksman had made a
tidy bag when the Law asked him what he meant
by disturbing the rest of the tired police in that
fashion.
As was prophesied at the time when the
Zionist movement was particularly active, a few
years back, the Jews who were sent back to
Palestine have hung out the sign of the golden
balls over Jerusalem, and opened old clo’ shops in
the streets of Damascus. At the time it was
said that the Cohens would probably all rush the
pawnshop and old clo’ business, and try to do
business with each other and go broke in conse-
quence. But it appears that they had larger
ideas. According to the leader of the Opposi-
tion in the Turkish Parliament, the Zionists who
have secured extensive lands near Damascus and
Haifa are using various methods to compel the
Turkish Government to have recourse to them for
loans. Apparently the business methods of Abra-
ham Cohen don’t suffer from transplantation,
But it will be a serious matter for Britain if one
of its few remaining industries drifts to the region
where Jacob first displayed the possibilities of the
race.
* * * *
This comes from a sea-captain wit h 50 years
experience of the world behind him :
Thursday Island. A place of horrors, disease, death.
A veritable man-trap. The result of apathy and crimi-
nal neglect ; neglect on the part of a supine council to
make the swarms of cherished aliens keep their quarters
clean. Here we have the pitiful spectacle of white
parents weeping for their little children—poor mites
dying in the agonies of dysentery, with no possible hope
of recovery. Absolutely fatal for all children up to the
age of six : such is the doctors’ verdict. Two or more
deaths have been occurring every' day-. Amongst the
adults the colored aliens seem to have furnished the
greater number of victims, Japs especially ; but who
knows what is yet in store for the whites? There are
ugly stories of festering filth under rhe Jap houses,
and of Jap boarding-houses crowded, the in-
mates sleeping on platforms like sardines, and
refuse dropped through the floors on the ground be-
neath —and left there ! It is horrible, and a fit retribu-
tion for the departure from the expressed will of the
Australian people for a White Australia.
HER CONGRATULATIONS.
SHE: “ Well, how do you feel this morning?”
HE: “ Hoo, thanks, quite like another man.”
She: “ Oh, I'm so glad!”
N.S.W. teachers are dissatisfied with the
committee appointed by the McGowen Ministry
to report on the question of public service super-
annuation. The civil servants are anxious for a
workable scheme, but failures
in the past and the suspicion
engendered by the wobbly
scheme that 0. G. Wade
handed to the railway ser-
vice have made them cautious.
The McGowen committee
consists of 0. G. L. Boyce,
comptroller in the Treasury ;
J. B. Trivett, Government
statistician; J. Garlick,
officer in charge of Local
Government; R. F. Irvine,
member of the Public Service
Board; and E. M. Moors, of
the Sydney University. The
Department of Public In-
struction, which provides
over one-half of the public
service (7000 in 13,000), has
no representative at all. The
man who should have had a
place is Bassan. the account-
ant of the department, partly
because he seems to have the
confidence of the big body of
teachers, but mostly because
he knows more about previous
superannuation schemes and
proposed schemes than any
Other man in the service. It
is not too late to appoint him
even now; and the appointment would probably
save much time and certainly give the biggest
branch of the service a ton more confidence.
* * * *
A queer sort of “strike” is at present
proceeding on Yarra bank, among the timber
stackers and sorters. This is the ninth such
occurrence in two years; but apparently neither
side is yet full of the game. Recently the em-
ployees, who were getting Is. 3d. an hour, asked
for an increase to Is. od. The employers said the
work was as unskilled as that of a wharf laborer,
who gets Is. 3d., and they would give no more.
“Very well,” said the timber-handlers ; “ we will
make it the unskilled labor you say it is. We will
not sort the wood, but will merely do the unskilled
work of stacking it on the wharf.” And that is
all they are doing. The “bosses,” though ram-
pageous, can only “sack” them, as a lock-out
would merely accentuate the trouble. It is a
variant of the Italian “lazy” strike. But nine
strikes in two years ! Are timber-importers an
extra-cantankerous body, or are timber-stackers
extra-touchy ? And where does the public come
in ?
From a hardened South Sea Islander :
Australia knows all about the disappearance of Stan}-
forth Smith, because Staniforth Smith was an acting-
Governor. It doesn’t know anything at all about the
disappearance of many another, because they weren’t
acting-Governors, though some of them were fine men.
If the worst reports are true, and Smith and party have
heen murdered, no doubt someone will go no there, shoot
off a harmless gun or so, trot some native police round in
Government buttons, write out a long report —and the
nigger, who sits through the proceedings and smiles,
will wait his chance ; and do just the same to the next,
party coming that way in perhaps a sick and exhausted i
condition.
Among the islands, anyone who knows our colored I
brother also knows what a huge joke he reckons a man-o’--
war, and until some other steps are taken to show himi
that it costs more than a pig and a cocoanut tree to>
kill a white man, the trouble is likely to continue.
Referring to one group alone, it would only be a fair;-
thing to ask the Resident Commissioner, Solomon Islands,,
what effective steps have been taken in regard to the ex-
ceptionally cold-blooded murders of Finlayson, Oliver.-
Burns, Charlie McConville and others who during thei
last few years have left their heads in the taboo houses off
the “innocent and childlike” nigger.
This was McConville’s case. He was a Sydney maim,
and, I believe, fairly well known in boat-racing circles- iin
his day. He went to the Solomon Islands to work for
Norman Wheatley, and afterwards started in a small
way on his own account. In December, 1904, he left
Fai'si harbor, British Solomon Islands, with a colored
boat’s crew of Shortland Island boys. Some days later
two of the crew returned with the news that the boat
had capsized, and McConvilie had been drowned. These
boys, for various reasons, were not believed, and were
heid by a trader pending inquiry. Inquiry by this
trader, who called in the Marist Mission Fathers, showed
that the natives bad got McConville across the German
boundary line. This was the same pla. e, by the way,
where, so it was reported, Harry Liversei was drowned
by his boat capsizing a few weeks ago. Here they mur-
dered him, too, and looted his boat, taking his head as a
trophy. The two natives whom the trader and the
Fathers suspected afterwards made a clean breast of it,
and told the whole gruesome story of McConville’s .
murder. They were then taken to Gizo station and i
handed over to a Government official; but the man who .
took them was told that he had no right to lay hand on i
them, and they were liberated ! Nothing has been done
in the matter from that day to this.
Can Australia be very much surprised that a while-?
man occasionally disappears mysteriously?
IN TOP NET.
THE PLUMBER: “ Wot yer after me for?”
HIMCHASEUS: “ Why, you’re only been here a
few hours, and the roofs leaking!”
Premier Weary, having perceived with *
pain that Mrs. Toorak and her daughters are
largely forced to do their own washing-up, is in-
structing his new immigration agent to inspect
sundry Cold Country domestics, see that they are •
sound in wind and limb and moral character, and
ship out a whole 40 of them. And the chances are ■
that when the 40do arrive, and find that there are ■
no Minimum Wage Boards or fixed working hours >
for domestics, half of them will stray away into <
shops and factories, where these benefits doi
obtain, while half will turn waitresses or bars-
inaids. In which latter event, the last case off
John Weary will be worse than the first.
THE PANTS PROBLEM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Now Woman has the trouserettes,
Fresh troubles she will know ;
Life is all sorrow and regrets
When pants begin to go.
The glib, tea-sipping sycophants
Who climb the social tree,
Will writhe to think their satin pants
Are bagging at the knee.
And who can deal in talk that’s small,
Or plots for snubbing hatch
Ere setting out to pay a call,
When somewhere there’s a patch ?
Then when the frequent rain comes down
’Twill fill the wearer’s cup
To stop and stoop in crowded town
To turn her trousers up.
One gleam of gold in Fashion’s freak
For drapers do I see ;
For added custom they may seek
With “ Extra Trousers Free.”
N.S.W.
AH TOO SOON.
“AWAKE! ARISE!”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“It is no longer necessary for public reformers to calif
upon woman to awake, arise. She has awakened ; she-
ll as risen.”— Address to a Melb. Female League.
Time was when woman slumbered on
In vulgar apathy ;
The night of slothfulness has gone—
A sudden riser she.
She is the early bird : infirm,
Ignoble man is still the worm.
She goes ahead with lightning speed*
Her car assails the skies ;
No longer is there any need
To cry : “ Awake ! Arise !” .. *
Yet risen woman thwarts desire,
And man still has to light the fire I
VICTORIA.
SILAS.


SBto
- TTtKlc "»e *S* ,rt >
£, t\l !
cVK+rorl join our V»y '
V J -••WUh I tou\i. l»ho-M >«
'*Uowc<* o»T
v Oh! if if r«-« °"'/
yOu»s yo !
fa Oh b<w facies ajong-
ys > «* hwV se +h Oß ,e>b e forc a
r ]}i_
);. °
G ,
-to
»<^”
jrinciMc<v
wW
30,r,^
1° , I
J)rill •
_ p-
VT ! "Of Course ,you never 'nv*.
Cava '— " O no, Kind Sti', 1 l«aye 'N?**' -for-ffyL
2x Vn’-rutTon !
vajwicn,
beino Ssilow'act -fc sto|> «f» I Vfk.
dr» 1£«, \ve. of
fb*S -rf»t
't»*v l e wiifi £r
T)rii| 5’ Wtat~on ear AT?
“TDeys,” \ B ' r .
- yo Joe,A''»> r «
WAR AND THE WOWSER.
THE YOUNG GUARD.—NIGHT DRILLS AND MORAL DANGERS.
The attention of the quartermaster-general (Lieut.-Colonel Legge) was directed yesterday to the Rev. F. Mason’s notice of motion in the Methodist Con-
ference Mr. Mason asks the Conference to protest against the night drills provided for under the Defence Act, on the ground that they involve dangers to the
morals of the lads.— Daily Paper.


GOLDEN YELLOW AXLE GREASE.
A Pure Oil Lubricant for
all Axles and Bearings.
Manufactured by LEWIS & WHITTY, Melbourne and Sydney. l 2
McKENZIE’S EXCELSIOR BAKING POWDER.
Diamonds Reduced
Enormously !
For six months we will offer Diamonds in Rings and
Pendants and Jewellery generally at prices never before
attempted in Australia.
WHY ?
Well, we have undertaken a Sole Agency that calls
for an enormous output, and we have to live up to it, and
so we are offering all Diamond goods at merely a com-
mission on the actual cost.
It will pay us, because of the advertisement and the
increase of customers.
Fairfax (EX Roberts,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
Plain Figures Cash.] 23 Hunter Street.
Selected Diamonds nnd
Whole Marls, £B/8/-
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“Karee”: Who says Binghi has no ro-
mance? The death of Bauhinia’s missus prompts
the question. Bauhinia, then a Doongal (Q.)
buck of 20 odd stormy summers, succumbed, 20
years ago, to the lady’s fleshy charms. She’s been
paralysed in both arms and legs the last 10 years,
yet he’s stuck to her, carrying and nursing her
from job to job, all same white pfeller. He is an
anomaly—works like a nigger (usually doesn’t),
keeps the old camp-folks in tucker, washes daily,
and is a strict t.t. And, finally, he is the only nig.
I’ve seen using a hanky.
A BASE INNUENDO.
NEW PARSON: “ Husband at home ?” NEW PARSON: “Been ailing long?”
MRS. S MITH: “He ain't well.” MRS. S MITH: “ Him? He never touched it in his life! ”
“ Yarrum ” : When a horse is sick he
makes for a house every time, while a cow gets
into the scrub or a gully to die. Not long ago at
Monaro (N.S.W.), an old farm horse broke into
somebody’s barn one stormy night, and devoured
about half a bag of wheat. Then he went and had a
big drink of water, and he swelled and swelled,
and came along to my mansion for medical treat-
ment. Not having qualified, I could do nothing
for the poor animal; and he died like a dog on
the lawn. Another case came under my notice a
couple of years ago at Kiama (N.S.W.), where a
storekeeper had a horse stricken with internal
combustion. He sent the patient to a veterinary
surgeon on the hill, who promptly cured the
animal. Since then the old neddy has had periodi-
cal attacks ; but when he feels ’em coming along,
he hies him away to the old vet’s abode and gets
himself fixed up every time.
* * * *
“Tim ” : Many years ago, when the first
piano arrived at Kildary run, out Broken Dam
way (N.S.W.), everybody within a radius of 30
miles was invited by dad to the christening.
Amongst the guests was an old fellow named
Gerard, who had lived in the vicinity for close on
60 years. He was provided with an easy chair
beside the piano, and watched my brother, who
was the Anly musician in the company, play.
With brief intervals the key-walloper was kept at
it till daylight was so close you could have thrown
a stick into it from the top of the hill ; and as old
Gerard rose to leave, he shook hands admiringly
with my brother and said : “ Well, Frank, I have
been watching you all night, and I’m busted if I
think I could do that even now.”
NOT EXACTLY.
1ST C ADGER: “ I’m surprised at a man with
your experience in the perfession asking a
pusson for a trifle to quench your hunger."
2ND DO: “ Well, I need it , don't I?”
1ST DO.: “ Yus, yus You may need it, Hal-
bert; but ask yerself, Is it diplomatic?"
“ Cross Nibs ” : “ Sombre Billy ” was the
biff expert of Splitrails station. ’Twas he who
adorned the men’s hut with charcoal studies of
Johnson in awe-inspiring poses, and supplied to
any aspirant the trouble he was looking for.
Fifteen engagements, and every one a victory,
had been recorded in his notebook, when “Silent
Jimmy,” engaged through a metropolitan registry
office, arrived on the premises. His pitle face and
habitual reticence secured for him various ribald
remarks from the dusky William. Yet the latest
arrival wasn’t upset at all. At last the acid was
applied in the shape of an ingredient added to his
water-bag. Returning that evening from
scrub-cutting, the reticent pale-face waxed
vividly eloquent. Half an hour later the
homestead had assembled at the sheep
yards. The soot-tinted aggressor was
the last to arrive, having being
delayed in searching for his Register
of Successful Assaults. Then the
contest began. As the sooty “slam-
mer” rushed across to connect per
knuckle, James would crouch low
aiid dive between his opponent’s
legs. This would snatch the ebonised
bruiser from his foundations and cap-
size him. After effecting the tenth
descent upon his head William
quitted. Utterly demoralised, and
blinking through an accumulation
of dust and refuse, he remained re-
cumbent, what time he lodged a pro-
test with the overseer. “ I’m no
plurry waggon, boss, for dis pheller
t’ rush inter me sharfts every two
minits. You gibbit Billy de fight on
a foul I bin tinkit. Yes, my plurry
yoats; I bin knowit all one white
pheller’s rules, Markets de Quince-
berry.” The overseer, amidst popu-
lar acclaim, slapped Jimmy upon the
back, and a new champion of a
lighter shade reigned at Splitrails.
That night, beside a spluttering slush-lamp,
Billy painfully pencilled in his publication the re-
sult of his late riotous behavior, “ Robbit by de
plurry phool raferee.”
“Pick”: “Gil Gunnia ” unblushingly
states (B. 2/2/’ll) that the kookaburra never in-
fringes the sacred rights of property. Why, in
my district the housewives keep a flail handy in
every chimney corner with which to wallop off
the jackasses from their chickens. Even “Gil”
would have a bad time among them himself ; and
I guess he wasn’t hatched last season or this.
Judkins’s advocacy of a water diet re-
ceived a bad advt. in Melbourne the other day
when an eel 2ft. Gin. long was found in the hose
pipe by the caretaker of the Albert Park Cricket
Ground. A little while before that another eel
blocked up a domestic plug, and the full pressure
of a lOin. main had to be turned on to blow him out.
It must have been a Victorian who said : “Water
is a washing fluid. Some people drink it.”
* * * *
“Itan”: That insidious pest, the water
hyacinth, is spreading at a great rate in all the
coastal rivers between central Queensland and
central N.S.W., and the upper reaches of the
waterways are packed full of the vegetable. It is
only when a heavy fall of rain occurs that atten-
tion is called to the curse. Then it introduces
itself in great green and lavender rafts, swirling
down the current against the shipping until such
time as the salt water destroys it. The danger 1
foresee lies a few years ahead, when the curse
becomes so matted in the upper rivers that the
floods will be unable to dislodge it, and disastrous
overflows, will follow. Every State should have a
sub-department to deal with the water hyacinth,
prickly pear, blackberry and similar pests ; other-
wise, Australia won’t be worth Japanese invasion,
and all our defence expenditure will be wasted,
and the army of small urchins will learn right
wheel in vain.
• * • •
“ Konini ” : All this outcry about the
Maori being a waster and a loafer makes me
fatigued. Why should he toil and moil and wash
away the peace of his mind with the perspiration
of his body ? He’s got his bit of land, his horse
and harness, his whare, spud ground, gun, a
pound or two for every race-meeting in the wide
vicinity, some more to go to Wellington when te
Parliament hold te korero, and a bit left over to
cool the cockles of his thirst. All the same, he
can do hard yakker when it’s got to be done, and
he can do it well. Take a recent case: ’Way
up the North Island a sudden craze descended
upon Henare to own a telephone system all
th’ same te pakeha; and he didn’t keep the craze
fizzing long, either. With remarkable energy he
ran a network of wires right across the isthmus,
connecting up several villages, and offering a con-
venience to the white settler that that lauded
bundle of enterprise would have gone without
until the Bugle call of Doom unless he could have
got the Government to do the work. Where
the Government wires were crossed the tele-
graph officials insisted on insulation; and,
although an electrical engineer would have
done the work less roughly, he couldn’t have
improved the results. Another such system
has been for some time in operation on
the east coast of the Islands, with its own ex-
change and native operator. On slack nights,
when the lines are clear or by arrangement, all
machines on the system are connected up, and for
miles round subscribers sit and take turns at
listening to the music of a big phonograph which
has been installed in the exchange whare. It was
a great day when that system was opened; and
when the last speech had been made and the last
pig had gone the way of all pork, Henare emptied
£3OO into the wash basin to cover the expenses and
rode home smoking the pipe of peace. I’m not
very keen on the Maori myself, but I’ll give him
fair dubs; and I know that when he gets busy
something’s going to be done. All his history
proves that. But not being forced into the fool
system of eternal toil that the white man has
evolved, he doesn’t propose to dive into it for fun.
Which gives him the additional merit of being
sensible.
THE CAPITAL ON THE COTTER.
BILLJIM I.: “ Well, I'm bloiced! ’Ere we're
a-farnishin' for a drink right 'longside a
bloomin' pub."
BILLJIM II.: "Pub! ’Struth! It's as dry as
the river.”
FOR AUSTRALIA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I saw a lot of active little lads the other day ;
I thought their tasks were finished as I watched them at
their play ;
They wore a sort of uniform and carried little guns,
And manoeuvred round the playground in little wheels
and runs.
They stopped at last and were dismissed, and then, in
voices shrill,
They talked in knots of twos and threes about their
childish drill ;
They looked down one another’s guns with interest in-
tense,
And criticised their officers and babbled of defence,
Their ardor was immense !
Said I to one : “ My lad, excuse the question that I ask ;
What is this kindergarten corps, and wherefore is this
task ?
You seem a merry lot of boys—nice, harmless little-
chaps—
Hut why these guns—they may get lost, or blow you up,
perhaps ? ”
Said he : “ Look’ere, ole bloke—you’re wrong 1 This ’ere-
is our parade.
Don’t try l’ kid me you don’t know 1 We are the Sixth
Brigade,
We ain’t just doin’ this fer fun—we don’t get any pay—
We does it ’cos the Japanese is coinin’ round this way.
We’ll lick ’em any day ! ”
“ Well, well,” I said, as soon as I could speak for sheer
surprise ;
“ You look a rather truthful boy—l hope you don’t tell
lies.
But do j’ou really' mean to say that this—er —lnfant
Corps
Is all Australia’s got to show in case there is a war ? ”
“My blanky oaf!” the youngster said (I thought him
rather coarse)—
“ This is the Bosh ter Boys’Brigade—the pride of all the
Force;
There ain’t a bloke wot’s in it under seven—not a kid 1
An’ Solly Marks is near fifteen—but /e’s a bloomin’Yid—
But you seen wot we did 1 ”
I thought—“ Well, yes,” I said at last: “ I noticed you
at play;
You seemed to go about it in a very earnest way ;
You spoke about the Japanese. Of course, you are aware
Their army is composed of men. Now, would you call it
fair
For them to come and shoot at you—you’re only little
boys '!”...
That rather awful youngster made a disagreeable noise :
“ Wot are yer givin’ us?” he said. “ W’y, most of us is
ten,
An’ in about a dozen years we’ll most of us be men.
We’ll give ’em guy ver then ! ”
“ What is your father, sonny?” then I asked the cheer-
ful lad:
“ The old pot? ,’E’s a bookie, and ’e isn’t doin’ bad ;
’E lays the odds—too bloomin’ short, I tell him, but ’e
says
Until they get the bloomin’ tote ’e don’t care wot ’e lays ;
They simply got to take ’em ! Yes, he likes me bein’
drilled
*E says there ain’t no chance of war, and no one won’t be
killed.
It keeps me outer mischief. Oh! that’s wot 'e says, o’
course!
No trainin’ work for my old man —except when it’s an
’orse.
Dad’s bettin’ for Orsetralia !
“ There’s Uncle Jim—my word, ’ow can ’e tork—e’s a
Empee.
You know—the Labor member for West Jerilderie ;
’E sides with Mister Holman, and ’e says that war’s a
curse.
An’ buyin’ guns an’ powder plays the devil with yer
purse ;
An’ teaehin’ little boys to fight, though only as a game,
Is absolute on-Christian-like an’ sure to lead to shame ;
That anyone wot makes a gun, or builds a fightin’ boat.
Is clutchin’ Civil thingummy, or somethin’ by the throat—
Unc.’s skitin’ for Orsetralia.
“Me brother Jack—you’ve ’eard of ’im ; ’e plays for
Annandale,
And orter get his place next year—that is, if ’e don’t fail.
Jack says I oughter play reel well, cos I’m so quick an’
cool—
I’ll be the captain of our team when I go back to school.
’E showed me ’ow to cut and drive an’ wait f’r loose
ones, so
I won’t get out for ducks an’ keep me battin’ av’rage
low ;
’E showed me, too, a ball at which most batsmen always
jump;
Then ten-t’-one it dodges ’em an’ takes th’ middle stump.
He’s battin’ for Orsetralia.”
The Boshter Boys’ Brigade broke up and sought its
several home ;
I sadly mused on War, and then on Carthage, Greece and
Borne;
I knew how Time had always kindly waited for those
States
Whose people idled gaily by their city’s open gates.
We'd only to ask nicely of Pa Time what we required,
He’d keep the Japanese away till TEN YEARS had
expired ;
At least, so I concluded, when I read what had been done
To teach the Kindergarten class to use its little gun.
It must be silly rumor that the sands are nearly run—
That there’s heaps of trouble brewing,
That we should be up and doing
For Australia !
N.S.W.
O. C. CABOT.


Hotel
A us tra Ha
TARIFF:
From 13/- per Day
AND UPWARDS.
The Hotel is finely situated,
with abundance of air and
light. It is the most cen-
tral, largest, most modern,
most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING HALL; Guest Night
every Thursday ; excellent band engaged.
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR..
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea, with
Instrumental and Vocal Concert every
Tuesday afternoon, 4 to 5.30.
HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of guests.
Connected with Wireless.
J. URE SMITH, Manager,
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Don’t Persecute
your Bowels
Why use harsh purgatives ? They are brutal
—harsh—unnecessary. Try
CARTER’S LITTLE
LIVER PILLS.
Purely vegetable. Act
gently on the liver, elim-
inate bile, and soothe
the delicate membrane
of the bowel.
Cure Constipa-
tion, Bilious- A
ness, Sick
Headache,
and Indigestion, as millions know.
Small Pill, Small Dose, Small Price.
jgj
Carters
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS.
GENUINE must bear Signature
PLASMON COCOA
“ A Delicious Beverage of much greater
nutritive value than ordinary Cocoa."
—British Medical Journal.
PLASMON IS USED BY THE ROYAL FAMILY.
Australian Depot: 6& 7 Barrack St., Sydney.
The Royal Hotel,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Most centrally situated Hotel in Sydney.
Best place to lunch and dine in town.
J. W. COCKBAINE, Proprietor.
THE OXFORD HOTEL
KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Central and Charming Situation.
Special Attention to
the Cuisine. . . •
Lift and all Modern Conveniences.
Tel. 321.
F, 0, Robinson. Proprietor
“ Gwy ” : Be the water hyacinth curse on
the Northern rivers (N.S.W.). Things having
lately got worse, there is, of course, the usual
clamor for Government interference. But in
this respect the Ma State may do worse
than take a leaf out of Bananaland’s book.
Under that State’s Local Authorities Act,
powers are given to the Minister to deal with the
pretty iniquity. As soon as areas are “ declared ”
it becomes the duty of the occupier to destroy
this and other noxious weeds from the bank to the
middle of a non-tidal stream up to a distance of
two chains; all beyond that distance must be
destroyed by the local authority. As to ways and
means, the writer described, in the first paragrapli
he wrote for The Bulletin, in 1900, an arrange-
ment of deflecting booms, designed to keep a
strong current moving, so as to bank the vegetable
up at the side, whence it can be taken out and
burned when dry, or else treated with chemicals.
But it is a tough enemy to tussle with. In the
St. John River, Florida (U.S.A.), where the pest
first gave serious trouble in 1890, they are still
struggling with it.
* * * *
“The Sparrow” : When Le Souef, of
Sydney Zoo, declared that ’possums can’t jump
upward he proved nothing except that he doesn’t
know all the ’possums in this continent. I’ve got
one, anyhow, that arrives home every night be-
tween 10 and 11 o’clock, and mostly springs
through my open bedroom window ; and that
aperture isn’t less than 3ft. Bin. from the ground.
SUSPICION.
THE BOV: “Mother wants er pint of milk, and
she says I’m to see yer pour it in from the
cow.”
A STUDY IN VALUES.
“ Bromide ” : The two contestants for the
title of champion shearer at Toowoomba were set
a tough task all right; and, although the best
man won easily, I don’t see why he should be
hailed as “ champion ” when he only beat a man
who does not seem to be known too well. None
of the “guns” from N. S. Wales or Queensland
could give any information about Maurer, neither
could the A.W.U. men, and every shearer of pro-
minence is known to them. Zimmerle is, of
course, a well-known “ gun ” ; there is no doubt
about him. But if he wants to hold the title he
will have his hands full, although I’m tipping him
to win right through—Livingstone thrown in.
Palmer might have had a chance a few years ago,
but he is too old now. The “ guns” are divided
in opinion. Some say Zimmerle, others Living-
stone. But they nearly all say, “It would be a
close go.”
* * * *
“ Billy T”: A recent Bulletin story tells
of a romantic figure, the heroine of a township,
whose sorrows make her sacred, and who is revered
as a picturesque mourner for a lost love, whereas,
as the sequel proves, she had long since disposed
of the absent lover with a cheese-knife, and hidden
his bones under her bed-
room. I know of a
somewhat similar hero-
ine, the finish of whose
romance was even more
tragical. She, too, was
pale, and grave, and
austere, and the story of
how she was crossed in
love when sweet 18 was
incorporated in the folk
lore of Gum. Her “first
and only ” was a tall,
handsome, happy lad,
the pride of the town-
ship and district; but
lie passed out and away,
and, though she might
be forgotten, she never
forgot. She loved on,
and cherished the pic-
ture and memory of her
beloved, and became a
local monument of
wo m a n’s constancy.
Her faith was steadfast.
She knew her love would
return to her, and she
watched and prayed. He
did return, alive and well at 56, fat and bald, with
gout in one foot, and the most fantastical set of
forked whiskers that ever grew on mortal man. He
had become a rich fellmonger. When he asked
for his old sweetheart a small crowd conducted
him to her door, and there before them all, his
voice tremulous with emotion, he begged her to
give him the recipe for the sauce her mother used
to serve with stewed eels.
* * * *
“Longy ” : “ Agram’s” sft. 6in. gohanna
may take a bit of beating; but in a pub at
Abbotsford (Vic.) there is a stuffed lizard
7ft. 3in. long. It can be seen, or could when I was
there last, by drowning a modest threepenny bit
at the bar.
“Manuka”: Be tea-tree. As an Abo-
lawyer I must vote “ tea ” for once. Leptosper-
mum lanigerum, of N.S.W. and Tasmania, was
the “ tea-tree ” of the early settlers of those coun-
tries; and L. scoparium, the manuka of the Maori,
was the “tea-tree” of Maoriland’s pioneers.
“Ti” is the Maori name for the cabbage tree
generally ; but different varieties of cabbage trees
have separate names—for example, kauka,
whanake, kauru, mauku, etc. Have also seen it
misspelt “ ti-tri.” Don’t know who was first
responsible for mixing the beverage.
* * * *
“Bash ” : One thing that has particularly
struck me during the summer time in Australian
cities is the way the average waggon-driver or
milkman decks the top of his steed’s skull with
either a patch of linen the size of a well-grown
hot-cross bun, or a ludicrous-looking arrange-
ment suggestive of the King of Dahomey’s State
parasol in miniature. It seems to be a matter of
common ignorance among such gentry that “ pro-
tection ” of such a sort is worse than useless.
There is really no such thing as “sunstroke”
possible as far as the geegee’s head is concerned,
the matter being
one of heat-ex-
haustion follow-
ing upon circula-
tory congestion
in lungs or brain,
and the conse-
quent inability
of the heart to
keep up satis-
factory blood-
distribution. If
milk-oh and his
confreres would
substitute for the
ludicrous horse
cadey a frequent
and unsparing
cold hosing of
the whole body
they might use
the skull doyley
to polish the
harness. Other-
wise it is worse
thanus eless, be-
cause, by reason
of its closeness,
it prevents the
evaporation of the perspiration forming below
it, and defeats its object by blocking radiation,
and so making the long-suffering nag’s poll hotter
instead of cooler.
* * * *
“ Old ’un ” : “Gil Gunnia ” (B. 2/2/’ll)
booms the kookaburra as “the best feathered
friend in the Australian bush,” mainly because he
is sudden death on things crawling. He omits to
mention that J. Ass is also sudden death on frogs
and lizards, which destroy more crawling vermin
than any other animals on the land. .John Donkey
is also sudden death on eggs and birds too young
to leave the nest; while in the farm-yard he is
sudden death on young chickens and hen eggs.
Altogether, then, there’s far too much sudden
death about John. •“ Gilgunnia ” also whoops that
,T. Ass “ does not allow sparrows to approach the
orchard,” whereas any' country kid knows that
two or two and a half sparrows will cause the
blatant fowl to flee for his life.
“ Jimmie Pannikin Was talking recently
to a butter baron on the North Coast (N.S.W.)
who, 20 years ago, was a cane-cutter, timber-
getter and general laborer. J ust when the Big
Scrub began to take to dairying he came into a
legacy, took up land, and descended into oow-
cockeydora. To-day he is wealthy, and, like his
class, callous and forgetful. “This Labor crowd,”
he roared at me, “ will rooin every industery in
Noo South Wales. In th’ old days, we useter
git good men cheap; now, th’ blankers want
ther wages of a ship’s capt’n an’ no toil.
But we’ll beat ’em with mercheens. Me an’ the
boy can do as much work with one mereheen
before dinner as 20 of ther loafers could in 20 days.
A few more inventions an’ ther settlers’ll be able
to put a pin in ther nose of this ’ere Labor push.
Mercheens ’ll do evervthink yet, unless the Labor
mob organise ’em inter unions. And I wouldn’t
put that past ’em. I’m er great mereheen man.”
And he is, too —a sort of human mangle.
* * * *
“ Araemo ” : “ Conclamine’s ” par (B.
19/1/T1) re the scrub-turkey's nest, which he
describes as about 4ft. 6in. high at the centre,
with a diameter of about 10ft. at the bottom,
reads as though he thought he had discovered
something large in the way of lying-in hospitals.
I might have been inclined to agree with him had
I not come across this in an English paper :
In Australia are to be found the largest, heaviest and
most peculiar nests in the world. These are the nests of
the jungle fowl, so called, and are built in the form of
creat mounds, the average measurement in height being
15ft. and the circumference 160 ft. The nests are erected
in secluded, sheltered spots, and are skilfully interwoven
with leaves, grass and twigs, and such other suitable
material.
It seems that the Australian will have to learn
the natural history of his own country from
Englishmen, just as he first learnt his character
from Foster Fraser. By the way, can any Aboliars
give any information concerning the above-
mentioned jungle fowl? One alleged bushman
informed me that it was a waterfowl, about half
way between a duck and a flying cow in size, and
that it is to be found on many inland waters in
northern Australia. But he knew that I hailed
from the city.
* * * *
“ Leo Lear ” : The long, sloping tunnels
made by the brilliantly-colored bee-eater—the
bird whose orange, blue and green plumage
makes him a favorite in the vain woman’s head-
gear (slaughter-house brand)—are usually found
in colonies on sandy banks. These main halls or
corridors are sometimes 4ft. in length from the
opening to the nest cavity. But, after the bird
has made its retreat, it will put up with almost
any disturbance without deserting the nest.
Cattle trample in the front door; dogs scratch
away the hall and stairs; and through it all the
birds stick to hearth and home. But perhaps this
constant interference is changing the beauty’s
habits, as I have found odd birds building in
aerial termite mounds. The bee-eater parents
evidently belong to Sassiety, as they like to get
the maternal duties over and done with as rapidly
as possibly; therefore they commence sitting
operations as soon as the first round white egg
makes its appearance. But as the lady goes on
adding pellets to the stock, the nursery presently
contains progeny in all stages, from an unbroken
egg to a feathered youngster. As graceful fliers, I
would nominate them to beat all comers. After a
few quick wing strokes, they fold up their propel-
lers and shoot through the atmosphere like aerial
torpedoes. But as songsters they wouldn’t get a
place in even the back row of the chorus.
THE RESCUE.
BUGOLIC PERSON (who has violently yanked
chauffeur from under his car): “Another
second and it ’ud a-bin over ych! ”
“Marloo”: Be “Tooloa’s” query (B.
16/2/’11): “Are crows wholly useless?” In the
land of fried nigger dwells a crow who was
accused of dining on lambs’ eyes, raiding hen-
houses. and generally possessing those bad habits
which our brand of winged blot is delated with.
After much nasal profanity and abuse had been
heaved at the funereal bird, the Washington
Government some years ago appointed a com-
mittee to inquire into the crow question, The in-
vestigation extended over 10 years, and 1000
corpses were examined. The verdict was in
favor of the cawer. The chief entries on the
credit side were : (1) During a normal year one-
third of his entire diet consisted of destructive
insects; (2) when insects were very plentiful he
ate little else ; (3) he was particularly partial to
many insects which escaped other birds by reason
of an unpleasant “ pong ” which they use for de-
fence. Wonder would our gentleman obtain a
similar decision ? ____
FEEDING ON BEER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He had generally found the principal causes of intem-
perance to be the want of nourishing food, the use of
food improperly cooked, or want of variety in food. He
had more than once put a stop to the drinking habits of
large numbers of men by providing a better cook. —
Admiral Bosanquet, Oov. of S. Aus.
“Oh Brother, shun the vile Der-ink 1”
The curate moaned as though in pain ;
Through mists of beer I saw him blink—
The man who’d “ filled ’em up again."
“ Read this, dear friend,” the curate said,
And offered him the tract he bore ;
The drunkard slowly shook his head,
“ YVharrerer think I’m drinkin’ for?”
“Because the Fiend drags you along !"
The curate squeaked like any mouse.
“Oh no,” the drunk remarked. “ You’re wrong.
Th’ Fiend’s up cookin’ at my house.”
“ He’s mad ! ” —the curate backward jumped.
“ I’m not! ” —the drunkard, with a start,
Upon the beer-stained counter thumped
The armored roofing of a tart.
“ ’Ere ! Look at that !” he cried. “ An’ that! ”
Some speckled and destructive cake
He rummaged from his ragged hat.
“ That’s w’y I booze—’er own d n bake ! ”
“ Go ’ome an’ teach ’er how t’ cook 1
Don’ waste yer time abusin’ me I
On ’ome!—an’ take a cook’ry book,
Yer blanky fool, this is ine tea!"
The curate spun upon his heel;
Out of the place we watched him pass ;
He did not know it was a meal
The drunk was sucking from the glass !
How often in the stilly night
Do Admirals distinctly hear ;
“ By Gord ! I’ve got a appytite !
I’m ’ungry, Miss. Give me a beer ! ”
N.S.W.
FOR.


He had bought her a motor-car.
Mr. Brown Bear denied the charge.
There wasn't a thing he could think
of that he hadn’t done for his wife.
And aeroplanes hadn’t been invented
a month before he bad bought a ride
for her.
And had taken a box at the theatre
for every first night.
And a front stall at every Coronation.
She had a season ticket at the
Glaciarium
(And the moral? Merely <that some a good deal like some men.)
Petitioner admitted all
this. But what were these,
things compared with gum
leaves? Had he provided her
with gum leaves ? Respond*
ent admitted overlooking the
gum leaves.
Decree to bust the titf
accordingly.
DIVORCE IN GUMVILLE.
The N.S.W. Full Court last week heard a divorce appeal. The question was, “Is the gum tree a home?” Justice Gordon had held that there had been
no desertion, though respondent had declared that all he had for a home was a seat under a gum tree. —Daily Paper.
This recalls the last sitting of the Gumville Supreme Court, when there was also a suit in divorce—Brown Bear v. Brown Bear. Mrs. Brown
Bear charged her husband with Cruelty. The Bulletin’s artist records the proceedings.


GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
WORLD-FAMED
QUALITY.
HATS.
For
DURABILITY.
Trade Mark Case
A WARNING.
It having come under our notice that various
substitutes are sometimes sold and passed off
as 0.T., notice is hereby given that this practice
is a breach of the Trade Marks Act, and con-
sequently illegal, as O.T. is a Registered Trade
Name, and applies only to the beverage made by
this Company.
After this date all persons who so continue to
pass off other drinks as O.T. will render them-
selves liable to proceedings under the “Common-
wealth Trades Marks Act.”
O.T. LIMITED,
F. Malvin Quinn,
March 1, 1911. Acting Managing Director.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
On March 9 the N.S.W. Junior Cadets
were finally disbanded, having become lost in the
universal training scheme. Among the leave-
takers was Dr. Roth, who was appointed medical
officer of the corps when it was established in 1887,
and was first, last and only medical officer to the
cadets while they were in existence.
Old James Oddie, of Ballarat, who died
the other day, left £lOO, the income from which is
to be spent in tidying the graves of the diggers
who lost their lives at Eureka. Oddie’s admira-
tion for Peter Lalor, the Eureka leader, amounted
to hero-worship. On the occasion of the 50th
anniversary of the Stockade he published “From
Tent to Parliament,” being largely a life of Peter,
together with reprints of rare pamphlets concern-
ing the Stockade, including two contemporary
“ poems.”
MILLAR, Minister of Railways and
Labor, M.L.
Col. W. T. Reay, editor and manager of
the Melbourne Herald, has reached home after a
trip to Europe and America. He distinguished
himself by interviewing President Taft, though
it read as if Taft were interviewing him, being
more Reay than Taft. .Tack Davidson, one of the
best of inky-way farers, has been acting as editor
in Reay’s absence.
Booker T. Washington, the First Negro
of the U.S.A., is to visit Australia. It will be
interesting to listen to his opinions, and (parti-
cularly for the Conservatives) to hear him state,
as he will, that the Australian policy of a White
Nation is the best yet. Booker knows!
Lieutenant-Colonel An till, who some few
years ago resigned the army in wrath, has
rejoined, under appointment to the Common-
wealth. The Colonel is a grandson of Major
Antil), who came out with Macquarie as Brigade
Major. When Macquarie left, the original Antill
settled at Picton, and named the place after the
British General who was killed at Waterloo.
Sir John Fuller, the forthcoming Victorian
State Excellency, owns up to “five young chil-
dren” (not eight, as was rumored), and mentions
that family cares will probably prevent his wife
from bringing the small brood along to Melbourne
in his company. But she will follow a few weeks
later, and be able to bring them all, he hopes.
No previous vice-regal, within the memory of the
oldest inhabitant, has been a grass-widower when
he was sworn in. The periods of loneliness always
happened later.
Died at Ashfield, Sydney, on March 9,
Mrs. Mary Ann Hall, widow of Reuben Hall, and
daughter of the first Joseph Vickery. In the
mining boom days of the early ’7o’s, Reuben Hall
was put forward by his brother-in-law, Ebenezer
Vickery, to manage mining properties and com-
panies, which were as thick then as leaves in a
public library. In 1872 he was legal manager of 18
companies in gold, copper and tin. Many of them
were, of course, failures; but a heap of the
Vickery money dates from that boom.
A. W. Jose, who left for London this
week, came out fresh from Balliol College, got the
eucalyptus in his blood and soon became a good
Australian. After the Duke had called in to lay
Australia’s foundation stone, Britons were ready
to hear about Australia, and a long article by
Jose in The Times gave them useful information
tempered with enthusiasm. That article secured
Jose’s appointment as Australian representative
of' The Times, which job he has held since 1904.
The author of “ The Growth of the Empire ’’ is an
Imperialist, and his “History of Australasia”
(the most accurate in use) is written from that
standpoint. He goes back to Fleet-street for a
holiday, and while there will probably be re-
charged with the sound British spirit which had
evaporated in Australia.
Ballarat mourns James Oddie, its best
citizen. He came from England in ’49, and settled
at Geelong as an iron-founder. The first rush
swept him to Ballarat, where he did well at
Golden Point; and thenceforward he was identi-
fied with every local forward movement. He had
been in almost everything : he saw the Eureka
battle, being a storekeeper hard by ; was first
chairman of the municipal council ; a founder of
all the institutions and a free giver to all the
charities. Also, he paid £2OOO for the Lalor
monument, being disgusted with the absurdity of
putting Queen Victoria, Burns and Moore before
the lustrous Peter at Ballarat. Cultivating
astronomy as a hobby, he fitted the Pleasant Hill
Observatory with instruments at his own cost,
and set aside others for the Federal Observatory
—when it arrives.
Thomas Wilmor McKenzie, whose death
in Wellington was recorded last week, was the
first Maoriland journalist to be gaoled for affirm-
ing the liberty of the press. He happened to be
reporting a case before Judge Stephens, when
two jurors—a grand juror and a common juror—
were lined up for being late. The grand juror, who
was a man of cash substance, blamed his watch,
and was thereupon excused ; the common juror,
who was also a common baker, likewise blamed his
watch—and was promptly fined a fiver. Next
day McKenzie’s paper made some remarks which
considerably jarred the Bench, and Mac was
wheeled up to purge his “ contempt.” Declining
to do so, he was sent along to consider the matter,
and went on considering it for two or three weeks.
At the end of that time, Governor Hori Grey, at
Auckland, got to hear of the incident, and
ordered his immediate release. A mass meeting
of citizens welcomed him, but the Judge stayed
at home. In fact, he was so -offended that he
threw in his bleached horsetail and left Maoriland.
“ B. De 0.,” on his own responsibility :
John Cash Neild perpetrated much bad verse ; but the
weight of evidence is against the charge which was often
levelled at him in the Senate of having written the line,
“ Eftsoons the nocent waterspout.” The late Andy
Dawson persistently shouted this line across the cham-
ber at Neild. On one occasion the big Colonel became
very angry, and offered to give £2O to any hospital in
Melbourne if Dawson or any other Senator could prove
that this line was in any of his poems. A search was
made in the Parliamentary Library for Neild’s poems—a
handsome volume which had been presented to the
nation by Neild himself. But the volume was not to be
found, and there were hints that the book had been
stolen by some poetical member. Dawson, however,
borrowed a copy from someone, and he and other Senators
pored over it in search of the “ nocent waterspout ” line.
It was not to be found, and Neild kept his £2O. The only
quotable verse I can find in Neild’s book suitable to the
present moment is:—
I can hear the deep tread of thy footstep, O Death ;
On my face I can feel thy lethiferous breath,
And thine arms calmly fold me, magnificent Death !
Rockhampton Bulletin, the paper that
so long carried Kidston on its back, has changed
hands. John Blair, one of the partners, died the
other day, and old William Maellwraith, the
other partner, didn’t feel up to handling the
thing alone. So three of the firm’s em-
ployees have put on the harness. The Bulletin
broke its shell in ’6l, when Rockhampton was the
northernmost town in Queensland. The biggest
part of the paper was taken up with the announce-
ment that its price was sixpence. The first
owners were the Buzacotts ; and when one of
them died in 1880. William Maellwraith bought
his half-share. The Other Buzacott passed his
share on to S. W. Hartley, his son-in-law, who in
turn passed the bundle to J. Blair, who had the
business management and a b;ig say in charting
the course the paper followed. Maellwraith has
driven the editorial nib .for 31 years. A fine,
kindly, gentle old fellow he is, who would rather
write 10 nature-study leaders than one column of
political venom. ,
J. C. WILLIAMSON, JUST BACK FROM
EUROPE.
Lorenzo Lodge, one of the most reputable
persons in Hobart (Tas.), is dead. Born in Lon-
don, he was educated at the Royal Naval School,
Greenwich ; travelled to Victoria in 1850, and in
1854 migrated to Hobart, where he settled down
as a respectable citizen, with a tendency to tem-
perance and social reform. He leaves behind him
two capable sons, Barrister Lodge, of Hobart, and
W. Lodge, of the Melbourne Age.
Retired, after 43 years’ pursuit of Ancient
Nicholas in M.L., Rev. H. Bull, Methodist and
pioneer. For many years he spent half his time
in the saddle following the cloven tracks of Nick
across the North Island, getting so close to him
during the Maori wars that he could see the dust
rising in his wake. In later years the old parson
was a prominent figure at Methodist conferences,
being secretary to eight of them, always with the
deliberate intention of driving Nicholas into re-
tirement —and never quite succeeding.
Alf Edden, the rough diamond who is
N.S.W. Minister for Mines, reaches a rugged
eloquence when he gets on to the subject
of preventing accidents underground.
Just before Alf was born his father was
killed in an English mine, and the
widow, with the posthumous child and a
lot of others, had a hard struggle.
Alf came to Australia, and settled in
Newcastle, where, in the course of time,
he had a son killed. He described his
political genesis in these words in Parlia-
ment: “Mr. Speakyer, I coom oop out
o’ the mine, wroong the sweat out o’ me
shirt, and coom ’ere into this Parliament
to speak fur them as sent me ’ere.” On
another occasion when Alf was speaking
he was referring to the wrongs of the
children of the miners. “ How many
children have you ? ” queried Me
Millan. “Noine, and more to coom,”
was the instant reply.
“ Kobbi ” : Apropos Norman
Lindsay’s cartoonlet (8.. 2/3/T1) of the
hangman in dress-suit. I don’t know if
Australia has had a swallow-tailed hangman but
when Griffin, the gold commissioner in Clermont’s
(Q.) early days, was executed for the murder
of the gold escort in ’67, he turned up to act the
other leading part dressed in his best suit of even-
ing clothes.
The “big-gun” shearers begin to talk.
Dan Cooper, who has a record of 316 sheep in a.
day behind him, has challenged Zimmerle, the
winner of the championship match at Toowoomba.
Cooper is going to claim the pride of first place if
the challenge is not taken up. Harry Living-
stone, probably the best-known “gun” in the
North, is said to have refused a solid offer to go
to England at Coronation time with a team of
mixed champions; so probably he, too, will be
heard from later.
J. C. Neild could never stick at any busi-
ness. He described himself at various times as
“commercial expert,” “arbitrator,” and “insur-
ance expert ” ; but he was as hopeless in running
his own affairs as Parkes himself. His first
appearance in commercial life was in the mid
’6o’s, when he was recorded as J. C. Neild, junior,
commission agent, Lyons Buildings, George-
street.” Later on he was the representative of
the Lion Assurance Co., but he quarrelled with
the head office, and thus lost perhaps the best
business chance he ever had. His father was Dr.
J. C. Neild. A brother is Archdeacon Neild
(C. of E.); a sister is the wife of the Rev.
Allnutt, for 28 years rector of Cobbitty.
The paternal Neild’s household was militantly
Protestant; and in his younger days J.C., jun.,
cultivated his moustache and his Orangeism with
equal fervor. He came to loggerheads with the
pup ; but to the end he remained on terms of the
warmest friendship with the other possession.
Many of Melbourne’s most musical folk
sighed a little sigh last week on hearing that Mrs.
Pabst was dead. The Pabst pair were great
apostles of the piano and classical music ; the hus-
band figured as a teacher in Melbourne some
15 to 20 years ago, and the lady, who recently died
at Vienna, was revered as an inspirational force.
“Pabst pupils” shone among the aspiring young
pianists of their time. Percy Grainger got his
early training from Pabst, and Olive Heregard,
who became Mrs. Schartf in due course was another
star pupil. Not long after little Percy Grainger
had been packed off to Europe, the Pabsts went
away, to return no more. They made liieir home
in Munich, where the most intense musical tem-
peraments are said to find freer expansion than
many other city.
That greasy Maori quack, Ruatapu, “pro-
phet” of the Urewera, medicine man, poseur,
humbug, colored dandy and sly-grog seller, has
felt the we ght of the law’s hind leg at last; and
if there wasn’t as much steam power added
as might he hoped, there was enough to
prove to l!ua that it isn’t made of puttv.
Rua was charged at Whakatane with several
breaches of the Licensing Act, including sly-grog
selling, and the proceedings terminated with the
magistrate demanding £lOO and a bit over for
costs, and intimating that sentence on one charge
would be held back in order that it might lie
weighted with hard imprisonment if Rua didn’t
crowd into the narrow way a bit. The “ prophet ”
paid the fine cheerfully from a wad of notes total-
ling somewhere near £lOOO, and announced that
he would see the Governor.
Another brainy Australian goes oversea
for a crust —though this one doesn’t go so far as
usual. W. C. Morris is a Manning River
(N.S.W.) youngster who, in 1906, won a bursary
at Frederiekton Public School, entitling him to
three years at Sydney Training College. He put
in 12 months, was sent to Hawkesbury Agricul-
tural College, scored more honors, moved on to
Grafton Experimental Farm, returned toHawkes-
bury, took a 2A certificate under the Public In-
struction Act, and was sent back to teach the
teachers in training at Sydney Training College
how to grow the gentle spud and the sometimes
innocent cabbage. Lately the Maoriland Govern-
ment wapted a travelling Inspector of Agricul-
ture, and, after wrestling with 300 applications,
said that Morris was the man.
Joshua Thomas Bell, Speaker of the
Bananaland Assembly, who died last week, was
the son of Joshua Peter, a former President of the
Legislative Council of Queensland. Joshua Peter
was born in Kildare, Ireland, in 1827, and came
as a child to N. S. Wales. In 1847 the family
went north to what was then known as Moreton
Bay. The father, Toni Bell, was manager of Jim-
bour when it was first taken up. The owner went
to England and abandoned the place ; so Tom Bell
took possession and held it. Tom was fond of horses
and founded the Jimbourstud. He did well; but
Joshua Peter got involved before his death, which
occurred very suddenly in 1881. J.P.’s son, just
dead, was first elected for Dalby in 1893; for
some time before that he had been Samuel
Griffith’s protegd and private sec. In the mid
’3o’s, by the way, the original Tom Bell wns
Assistant Superintendent at Carter’s Barracks,
Sydney—the place where the treadmill was kept.
THE FALLEN STAR.
There are still countries where Government is carried
on according' to the principle of the sway of the phy-i-
-cally strongest, but as Australia is not one of them the
prophet of South American politics is here either a
nuisance or a joke, if not both.— Sydney D.T.
WHISKERY VOICE FROM THE WINGS: “’Ere,
come off! This is meant t' be a serious
drama, an' you're makin’ a roarin’ farce
of it!”
Captain Randell, just dead in Adelaide at
86, was the pioneer of Murray River navigation.
He had a 20-. ton steamboat on the river in 1852.
Her boiler, a kind of square-covered tank that
had to be bound round with chains to keep it from
bursting, is preserved at the Exhibition in Ade-
laide, along with S. A.’s first plough andßidley’s en-
gine. In September, 1853, Randell’s Mary Ann
crawled up to the junction of the Darling, then to
the junction of the Murrumbidgee, then to Swan
Hill—raced by Captain Cadell, who was coming
up the river at the same moment —and finally to
Maiden’s Inn, just above the Campaspe junction.
Randell and his brother received a bonus of £3OO
from the S. A. Government and a purse of £4OO
from the public for this feat. He afterwards
opened up the Murray trade in earnest, and
established a fresh-water dry-dock at Maiiuum.
DRUMMED OUT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
After Mr. Deakin’s appearance at the Town Hall last
night we should never again hear the charge that the
opponents of the Government proposals are identical with
the men who were the opponents of Federation. Mr.
Deakin is almost the last of the leaders of the Federal
movement now actively engaged in active politics.—
Triumphant bray of S. M. Herald.
Alf ain’t nothin’ to crow about,
’E doesn’t deserve a cheer ;
’E’s not the bloke to blow about,
So don’t go buy in’ him beer.
’E useter march with the Nation ;
’E useter be in command;
But we stopped his pay,
And we said “Good day !”
Now ’e’s first with the State Frights band.
Alf isn’t much of a fighter ;
There’s somethin’ wrong with his spine ;
’E’s good as a leadin’ Frighter,
But poor in a firin’ line ;
’E likes to be “ bright,” does Deakin,
And friends with the whole caboose.
“An’ quite right! ” says you.
But there’s work to do,
And a drawing-room cove’s no use.
Three cheers for the shining Fuser !
Our Alf is the Frighters’ pride !
The beggar can’t be a chooser—
'E talks for the other side.
The worker for Federation
Has turned his jacket about.
Oh ! it’s awful rot ;
But they think a lot
Of the Deakin that we drummed out.
N.S.W.
COLOR-SERGEANT.


: '
I M '
mm
I
SMfsi
i X.
SiS^W®#
m?
mm.
. :
ism!
I
-
.
/■. ■.:>■ v *V vV- v
!?• ■■'■:: :
: ..
■■■
I
lli
,
:
.
ilfc'&X' |z i Sf'
■
;
ycc
’■■
J
:
illilM
sSH
mmm
ggggg mm
■ I
: i
k ■ sidwnßißl
: ■
■
■ ■
K
MB
i
i
: :
»!P
HH
HH
I
■
* - - ,!
/
ED
1 n SB
✓"
CHAMPION GIFT SCHEME.
Smokers are specially requested to see that the COUPONS are on the Plugs, and the
BANDS are round the Tins when purchasing their Tobacco ,
v • • • < V v ' .....
For ■ Handbills of Gifts- —A ll Tobacconists.


IVTOTICE TO SAWMILLERS.— In stock in Sydney, 2 “ Robey” 1911 Model Portable Steam Engines
. Double Cylinders— 25 Nominal H.P. (87 Brake Horse-Power),
30 Nominal H.P. (105 Brake Horse-Power).
Those requiring prompt delivery for the most up-to-date Portable Engine should communicate with;
ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER & CO.,
Circular Quay (East), Sydney ; or 34 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CAPE EXPLOSIVES WORKS, LTD.
Gelignite, Blasting Gelatin, Dynamite, Detonators and Fuse supplied.
MT “NO CONNECTION WITH ANY COMBINE.”
Special Coal Mining; Explosives.
NOYES BROS. (SYDNEY), LTD., 109 Pitt Street, Sydney, (Sole Agents for N.S.W.).
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Emu Bay Railway Co. (Tasmania): —
Deberi- Deficit
Ordinary ture Capi- (Goodwill
andPre- tal and Items not
ferential Accrued Loss on Divi- Reckoned
Dec., Capital. Interest. Business, dends. Assets).
1900.. £337,172 £200,000 £9,181 Nil £115,663
Total preliminary expenses to date, £39,116 157,779
1901.. 360,000 205,234 8,078 Nil 165,857
1902.. 360,000 205,039 4,255 Nil 170,112
1903.. 360,000 210,052 4,881 Nil 174,993
1904.. 360,000 214, 566 4,703 Nil 179,696
Profit.
1905.. 360,000 214,668 3,828 Nil 175,868
1906.. 360,000 210,546 9,191 Nil 166,677
Capital written off, £6S,(UK) .. .. 101,677
1907.. 295,000 205,257 10,671 £8,750 99,756
1908.. 295,000 205,175 1,297 Nil 98,459
1909.. 295,000 205,109 6,090 Nil 92,369
Unexplained reserves .. .. £1,830 90,539
1910.. 295,000 193,318 6,198 4,375 88,716
There is a goodwill item of £lOO,OOO, described as “ Rights
acquired under V. D. L. Co.’s Waratah-Zeehan Railway
Act, and other concessions in terms of prospectus.” Cer-
tain mostly-Melbourne speculators, evidently with the
success of the Silverton Tramway Co. in their minds, got
a bill through the Tas. Parliament, and then sold the con-
cession to this co. for 100,000 shares paid to £l. It was a
great deal to ask for something tiiat couldn't of itself
earn a ha’penny a century 7; but the public paid it will-
ingly, rushed the shares, and then forced them to a sud-
den premium. After that the public sat down, thought,
and then got up hurriedly and told its broker that he
might sell. That was the last that was ever heard of a
premium. It wasn’t the £lOO,OOO of “ water ” that did
the damage. It was, as usual, the mortgage. Not hav-
ing enough share capital to do the work, £200,000 was
borrowed on debentures. Really, the mortgage is much
bigger, because the co. had to rent the Emu Bay and
Mount Bischoff Co.’s line from Burnie to Waratah ; and
that means £10,370 a year. This line is an essential part of
the scheme, so that practically the co. has a mortgage of
£400,000 ; and, except in two years, there hasn’t been
more than enough to pay the interest and rent. The
original paid capital was £260,000, including the £lOO,OOO
of “water.” Then £lOO,OOO in 8 per cent. pref. shares
was issued, 4 percent, being cumulative. Subsequently
the ordinary share-capital was nominally written down
from 20s. to 15s. per share. This was a mere juggle,
however, because though reduced to 15s. they still rank
for all practical purposes as though they were 20s. The
pref. dividend has never been paid when due, and on
December 31 there was £34,457 accrued. The divi-
dend shown as paid for the past year really
works off a little of this painful dead-horse. The
unexplained £lB3O which has dropped into a new Reserve
Fund is probably discount on the purchase of the co.’s
own debentures. The co., having a trifle saved up for
renewals, etc., has bought paper to the face value of
£11,500.
Net results certainly have been a trifle better
during the past six years ; but even at the present rate
of going it would lake five years to wipe out arrears of
interest; and by the end of that time there would be
another three years’ work to do to get rid of the
accumulation during those five years; and when
the old dead-horse had been got out of the way,
£BOOO a year would be called for to pay 7 current
preference dividend before the ordinaries could get a
bite ; and only in two years in the co.’s history has any-
thing like £BOOO been netted. And any great increase of
business is almost past hoping for. This shows the pro-
gress (or otherwise) as to traffic receipts and a few other
things:—
Available
Working for Rent, Proportion
Ex- Interest, Re- Expenses to
Earnings, penses. newals, etc. Earnings.
1900 ..£26,625 £17,475 £9,150 65-7 per cent.
1901 .. 39,005 25,957 13,030 66'6
1902 .. 42,131 25,289 16,842 60 „
1903 .. 40,818 23,264 17,554 57 „
1904 .. 42,365 24,382 17,983 57'5 „
1905 .. 50,829 24,731 26,098 487 „
1906 .. 60,170 26,654 33,516 44-3 „
1907 .. 65,658 30,746 34,912 46'8
1908 .. 57,057 31,519 25,538 55'2 „
1909 .. 58,533 28,743 29,790 497 ~
1910 .. 59,229 29,069 30,160 497 „
The co. has to depend mainly on the traffic of the Zeehan
and other West Coast fields ; and, at the best, they are
only small mines on those fields, and are never likely to
be anything else. The development of the zinc business
may make things a trifle better for this co. ; but the zinc
business means cut freights, for the present anyhow. To
make the outlook less cheerful for even the pref. share-
holder an arrangement was made about four years ago
by which the co. undertook to really begin a sinking fund
for the repayment of debentures in 1911 —and 1911 is
here now. An annual sum of £7OOO is to be set aside for
that purpose. What the end of it is going to be this
paper doesn’t pretend to know. The chances are that
demands upon the co. for the repair and renewal of roll-
ing stock and maintenance of the line will cost more than
it has done hitherto ; so it seems useless to look for any
very large increase of net profit. An argument of a very
unpleasant nature may therefore begin with the deben-
ture-holders at almost any time.
The Standard Fire and Marine Insurance
Co. (Maoriland): —
Written To Re- Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1900.. £13,494 10 p.c. =£7500 £5,994 £46,693
1901.. 11,013 10 „ „ 7500 3,513 50,206
1902.. 15,938 10 „ ~ 7500 £2OOO 6,438 56,644
1903.. 18,307 10 „ „ 7500 10,807 67,451
1904.. 12,715 10 „ „ 7500 5,215 72,666
1905.. 12,953 10 „ „ 7500 5,453 78,119
1906.. 11,570 10 „ ~ 7500 4,070 82,189
1907.. 12,697 10 „ „ 7500 5,197 87,386
1908.. 8,180 10 ~ ~ 7500 680 88,066
1909.. 12,573 10 „ „ 7500 5,073 93,139
1910.. 20,610 11*,, „ 8312 12,298 105,437
This is one of the four fine, energetic Maoriland fire and
marine offices—a group of which any country the size of
Maoriland might well be proud. The Standard isn’t a
mammoth concern ; but, if its assets are right, it is a
very sound one. This strength is mainly due to the fact
that, though it has for many years paid a very substan-
tial dividend, it hasn’t rushed the payment up
rapidly. Thus since it got its dividend on the
10 per cent, mark 10 years ago it has added
very nearly £60,000 to its reserves—a very fine perform-
ance for a co. with a paid capital of £75,000. For the
past year it did remarkably well, chiefly owing to a very
favorable experience in the matter of claims; and,
though it treats itself to a small bonus on top of the
ordinary 10 per cent., it is still able to put by £12,298
which is equal to nearly one-sixth of the entire capital.
Better still, from the point of view of safety, the
reserves have increased more rapidly than the risks.
Ten years ago the capital and reserves combined were
£121,693, and the net premiums for the year were
£55,475 ; so the funds were 219 per cent, of the risks as
measured by the premiums. The funds have now 7 reached
£180,437, and the premiums £73,370 ; so the proportion
of funds has gone up to 246 per cent. This is a rate much
above the average, which implies not only an unusual
degree of security for the policy-holders, but the same
thing for the shareholders as well. And the shareholders
are very deeply interested in large reserves, because on
each share paid to 15s. they carry a liability of £9 ss.
enough to make any man careful.
Some further Standard figures :
Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses. Expenses. Rate. Rate.
1895 .. £49,004 £32,600 £15,033 66'5 p.c. 307 p.c.
1900 .. 55,475 29,830 15,285 53‘8 „ 27’6 „
1905 .. 54,246 29,399 18,011 54‘2 ~ 33'2 ~
1907 .. 59,676 34,435 19,227 577 „ 32'2 ~
1908 .. 61,077 39,820 20,083 65'2 ~ 32'9 „
1909 .. 67,641 40,275 21,927 59‘5 ~ 32'4 „
1910 .. 73,370 36,593 23,760 49'9 ~ 32-4 „
The co. has made a spurt the last three or four years;
previously the business extension was not at all rapid.
And the spurt doesn’t appear to have been at the expense
of sound business; last year’s loss rate, as remarked just
now, has, in fact, been the best for many years. The one
feature about the accounts which isn’t wholly satisfactory
is in regard to the assets. They consist mainly of these
three items: —
Loans on mortgage £87,374
Premises and other property .. 20,560
Debentures .. 45,749
It will be seen that those three account for more than
four-fifths of the capital and reserves. A fire-insurance
office is liable to be called upon for very large sums at
very short notice; hence mortgages are not a satis-
factory form of security. As to “debentures,” the term
is too vague altogether. The one thing that can be said
in favor of the co.’s investments is that they produce
good interest; the earnings last year were £7573, or more
than enough to pay the 10 per cent. div. on capital. But
losses through shrinkage of securities are almost inevit-
able ; wherefore this co.’s reserves have to carry a risk
from which some other cos., which don’t go into invest-
ments of this kind, are exempt
Melbourne Co-Operative Brewery Co. :
Trade Written
July, Profit. Bonus. Dividends. Off. Deficit.
1904.. £l9l
1905!. £8,858 £2,782 50 p.c. = £2,816 £1715 1,354
Premiums on new shares, £6,094 .. 7,448
1906.- 27,679 10,276 110 p.c. = 10,180 4000 10,671
Premiums on new shares, £18,084 .. 28,755
1907.. 32,325 12,567 76* p.c. = 12,543 2347 33,623
Premiums on new shares, £299 .. 33,922
1908.. 14,175 78* p.c. = 14,001 3703 38,197
Premiums on new shares, £473 .. 38,670
1909.. 32,536 16,167 86* p.c. = 15,540 2049 37,450
Premiums on new shares, £17,347 .. 54,797
1910.. 31,691 15,020 73* p.c. = 15,679 1000 54,789
Premiums on new shares, £1,323 .. 56,112
1911.. 48,849 17,732 90 p.c. = 19,004 6505 61,720
The figures in the last line are approximate only ; and
this paper confesses that as to some of them its faith,
though larger than a mustard seed, isn’t big enough to
take a prize at an agricultural show if it were exhibited
as a pumpkin. The co. pays quarterly divk and also
gives a bonus to customers, the latter for the past year
at the rate of 2s. Id. in the £ on trade. During the year
the divs. actually paid were 4s. 3d. per 6s. share. This
evidently includes Is. 2d. paid as for the last quarter of
1909- leaving 3s. Id. for the first three quarters of
1910- ; and now Is. 4d. is recommended for the last
quarter, making no less than 4s. sd. per ss. share for the
year. If the Is. 4d. is paid on the whole 86,352 shares
now issued, it will amount to £5755, making with the
interim divs. the total of £19,004 stated in the table. The
bonus on trade may be more—probably is. All that has
been attempted is to add for the last quarter a sum equal to
the average paid in the other three. But, though there are
these doubts regarding some of the figures, it is a fair
thing to say that the accounts are presented much better
than they were in the previous year.
The co. began in a very small way. The old
Melbourne breweries, having settled some of their differ-
ences, in 1904 put up the price of beer. A few of the
biggest retailers in Melbourne met, and reckoned that
they could keep a brewery going themselves. They
started with a capital of £15,000. The thing boomed.
The co. had no pubs or other properties bought at frothy
prices. It hadn’t to send out travellers with pocket-
fuls of change to spend lavishly in buying trade.
Their own trade was the foundation they built on.
If others wanted beer they could have it too, and get a
discount or bonus. The idea was to cut up the profit as
equally as possible between shareholders and customers.
As mentioned above, the profit allowed of 2s. Id. in the £
being returned to Mr. Bung last year. Whether he paid
this co. more than he could have got the Curse for from
other breweries this writer doesn’t know. If the price
per hogshead is the same and the quality is the same,
then (apart from anything he may have drawn from his
shares) the co-operator got for 17s. lid. what he would
elsewhere have had to pay 20s. for. Others may, how-
ever, allow discounts too for all this writer knows.
The co.’s share capital is still only £21,588;
but after the first issue of shares a stiff premium was
demanded. Last year, it seems, 754 new shares were
issued, and the buyers had to pay £2 for them ; and
that meant a premium of 355. So far as they are con-
cerned the 90 p.c. dividend is thus only an 11 p.c. divi-
dend. The total premium reserve is now £43,620 ; so
that, on the average, rather more than 15s. has been
paid for every ss. share. The other reserves are a formal
Reserve Fund, £12,000 ; equalisation of dividend reserve,
and a trifle of unappropriated profit. Large
sums have been written off for depreciation. The plant
now stands at £37,211; it cost the co. £50,661. Land
and buildings stand at £39,971 ; £7605 has been written
off. Other movements are shown hereunder:—
1905. 1908. 1909. 1910. 1911.
Capital .. .. 11,262 17,885 17,952 21,399 21,588
Debts (overdraft,
etc.) .. .. 5,907 15,871 17,405 16,345 24,373
Buildings and
plant .. .. 15,597 56,962 60,923 68,322 77,182
Book debts .. 6,783 20,611 19,151 24,442 29,101
Stocks .. ... 1,424 6,834 6,902 8,664 10,087
Cash, etc. .. 317 2,564 1,815 894 1,240
The liabilities have grown steadily; but they are not
large considering the size of the reserves and capital.
Book debts are considerable ; but presumably Mr. Bung
mostly squares up once a month, and if 2s. Id. in the £
means £17,732, it seems that the beer turnover is about
£170,000 a year, wherefore a month’s supplies would run
to over £14,000. Otherwise the figures don’t call for
much mention. They suggest steadily growing business of
a highly profitable nature, with the co. steadily spending
money in plant, etc., to cope with it. It all amounts to
Socialism in a modified way—an attempt to put the profit
from your own trade into your own pocket, instead of
working to make profit for somebody else. And, like the
lily, the figures don’t want paint.
* * * *
The Perdriau Rubber Co. (Sydney), manufac-
turers and retailers of rubber goods :
In Reduction
Dec., Profits. Dividends. of Deficit. Deficit.
1907.. £5,804 lOper cent. =£4ool £lBO3 £12,799
1908.. 7,271 10 „ ~ 4742 2529 10,270
£52 added to goodwill account .. 10,322
1909.. 8,050 10 per cent. = 5801 2249 8,073
£63 added to goodwill account .. 8,136
1910.. 10,184 10 per cent. = 6757 3427 4,709
The co. was registered in 1904. It issued 30,000 shares,
apparently in payment for goodwill and assets, and with
the proviso that not more than half of them should be sold
within six years “ without the sanction of every director
for the time being.” At that time£lo,ooo was subscribed
and called “ B” capital; this was entitled to 10 per cent,
cumulative preference for .six years. Subsequently, in
1909, the authorised capital was increased from £50,000
to £75,000 ; but £5OOO of this new 7 capital remains in re-
serve. In the dumpy table on top of these remarks a deficit
is shown, in consequence of the intangible goodwill item
not being reckoned as an asset. Goodwill in such a case con-
sists of the business eonnectipn and tire fight to use the
name of Perdriau —a very good connection, no doubt, and
a very excellent name ; but both too vague and shadowy
to be kept in a balance-sheet. The goodwill stood orig-
inally at £15,000 ; a few odds and ends of patent rights
have since been added. The position therefore stands as
follows:
Goodwill and patent rights
Less reserves, £7294 ; depreciation a/c, £3206 .. 10,500
Deficit as above .. .. - ; .. £4,709
Besides the reserves just mentioned there is a “ Dividend
account to provide for the payment of a div. at the rate
of 10 per cent, per annum on the amount of the paid-up
capital, and sundry divs. not collected.” This item stands
at £3503. A div. reserve is a reserve quite as much as
a speckled giraffe is a giraffe; the fact that it is
speckled isn’t a bar to the beast’s giraffehood. Pos-
sibly part of the item is a reserve to guarantee payment of
the cumulative dividend, though apparently the six years
have now expired ; but it seems most likely to almost
wholly consist of money to pay the half-year’s dividend.
It boils down, then, to this ; disregarding goodwill for
the moment, the reserves certainly amount to £10,500,
and probably to a trifle more. Those reserves, however,
include a depreciation reserve, or “machinery and plant
reserve account,” as it is called ; and this looks like a
set-off against current wear and tear Depreciation of
“ furniture, fittings, etc.” (£267) is allowed for
specifically ; but apparently nothing is written off
plant. If so, it means that the true net profit
is less than the table shows, and the excess of profit over
div. is also less. There is nearly always this doubt about
a manufacturing co., which rarely cares to go much into
detail. So the plain fact is that the co. may be really doing
a good deal less well than the table shows, or it may be
paying for a heap of things out of revenue, and thus
doing even better than the figures suggest. One
has to trust the directors. Presuming they cor
rectly represent the trend of things—which, after all, is
the best they can hope to do—the 10 per cent, even on
the increased capital was more easily earned last year
than ever before.
A few other Perdriau particulars :
1907. 1908. 1909- 1910.
Liabilities .. .. £13,895 £9,790 £15,849 £14,792
Dividend account .. 2,751 3,024 3,002 3,503
Stock 24,440 27,187 35,838 42,181
Freehold, plant, etc.. 10,904 14,552 24,475 30,018
Book debts .. .. 7,781 8,065 9,625 10,433
Other assets .. .. 730 2,740 839 951
This is in each case before payment of the div. for the
second half of the year. The extra capital has thus been
absorbed in the business. Liabilities have not been
reduced to any extent worth mentioning. Apparently,
though, they are now all ordinary trade debts. Stocks
represent most of the capital; and as their value can only
be a matter of estimation, profits to a great extent can
only be a matter of estimation too. Moreover, stocks
consist largely, no doubt, of an article subject to violent
market fluctuations. It seems quite possible therefore
for the co. to make heavy losses by buying unfortu-
nately. On the other hand, the co.’s record has been very
good, its name stands high, and with a settled policy of
Protection its outlook is excellent.
* * * *
The Australasian Mutual Live Stock In-
surance 00. (Melbourne):—
To
Jan., Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
1901 .. £519 Nil £519 £739
Reserves.
1902 .. 758 Nil 758 19
1903 ' ... 771 Nil 771 790
1904 .. 839 Nil 839 1629
1905 .. 908 20p.c. =£6B6 222 1851
1906 .. 1145 18 „ „ 686 459 2310
1907 .. 1810 26§ „ „ 1283 527 2837
1908 .. 2009 23* „ „ 1283 726 3563
1909 .. 1516 16 „ „ 962 554 4117
1910 .. 1595 10 „ „ 641 954 5071
1911 .. 1928 10 „ „ 641 1287 6358
That table starts with a little deficit, representing the
last of the amount paid by this co. for the goodwill of the
old co., the Australasian Mutual Live Stock Insurance
Society, Ltd. The co. did a good deal of pioneering, and,
like most pioneers, it found that it barked its
shins oftener than it stumbled on a nugget. Even
now the great majority of the horse-stock in Vic-
toria, not to mention the other States, are uninsured ;
but a steadily increasing business is done, especially with
regard to blood stock. As for ordinary farm stock, the
man who is in the habit of getting his premises insured
for J per cent, or less stares hard when he is asked to
pay 6 or 7 or more per cent, to cover the risk on his
working teams. Still the habit is spreading, especially
among breeders. The past year shows a very remarkable
spring in the premium income :
1903. 1908. 1909. 1910. 1911.
Premiums ~ £3719 £7672 £6891 £7932 £11,658
Interest, etc. .. 151 489 473 463 547
Claims, etc. .. 2332 5108 4874 5743 8,985
Claims p.c. of
premiums .. 62 7 66‘6 707 72'4 77'1
Expenses .. 768 995 974 1056 1,291
Expenses p.c. of
premiums .. 207 12-9 14’1 13-3 11’1
During the last two or three years a few cos. doing fire
business have worked this stock insurance as a side-line ;
and naturally they are able to do it at less cost than a co.
which has to make this business stand all the exes. It
looked as though this co. might have a bad time in con-
sequence ; but it now seems quite likely that, while this
co. will hold its connection, it may gain by the presence
of these new missionaries in the field, explaining the
value of stock-insurance. The year’s figures certainly
point that way. The authorised capital is £37,500 in
150,000 shares of ss. each ; of this number 44,390 were
issued, but 18,372 have been forfeited for non-payment
of calls. (This was in the days of struggle.) The pre-
sent capital and reserves are almost all represented by
bank deposits ; and the interest earnings pay more than
three-fourths of the dividend, leaving almost all the
underwriting profit to go towards strengthening the re-
serves, and thus adding to the security of the policy-
holders.
* * * *
The Dkniliquin and Moama Railway Co.
(N.S.W.):—
Written Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves.
Dec., 1903.. £1393 3 per cent. =£lsoo £39,665
June, 1904.. 691 2* „ „ 1250 £6O 39,046
Dec., 1904.. 2412 2* „ „ 1250 1 40,207
June, 1905.. 436 2* „ „ 1250 39,393
Dee., 1905.. 3615 2* „ „ 1250 41,758
June, 1906.. 1143 2* „ „ 1250 41,651
Dec., 1906.. 6515 5 „ „ 2500 45,666
June, 1907.. 2189 5 „ „ 2500 45,35^
Dec., 1907.. 6863 5 „ „ 2500 49,718
June, 1908.. 2512 5 „ „ 2500 50,030
Dec., 1908.. 4700 5 „ „ 2500 52,230
June, 1909.. 1321 5 „ „ 2500 51,051
Dec., 1909.. 5431 5 „ „ 2500 53,982
June, 1910.. 1797 5 „ „ 2500 53,279
Dec., 1910.. 6808 5 „ „ 2500 57,587
This Co. owns a scrap of a line connecting with the Vic-
torian system at Moama. It ends at Deniliquin, which
is nowhere in particular ; but in good seasons a fair
amount of stock comes into Deniliquin from more or less
remote parts of Western Riverina, and is trucked to
Melbourne. The past season has been unusually good ;
so the traffic both in live stock and in wool has been much
greater than usual. Compare two July-December half-
years :
1904. 1910.
Live stock .. .. £1065 £2,954
Goods .. .. 3889 5,737
Allother .. .. 2124 3,843
Total .. .. £7078 £12,534
In normal seasons, however, there has been very little
development. The country is in big holdings, and agri-
culture is not practised to any extent worth men-
tioning. In good seasons wheat-farming would, no
doubt, be highly profitable, given fair prices for
grain; but the district is subject to severe
droughts. N.S.W. still has large uncultivated areas with
more certain rainfall; and it is therefore unlikely that
there will be any large increase of settlement and rapid
development of trade to be handled by this co. Never-
theless its prospects will probably steadily improve. Its
financial position is easy. It has a share capital of
£lOO,OOO and it owes £20,000 on debentures. Nine years
ago it owed £30,000. But here’s the whole position :
1901. 1910.
Liquid assets .. .. £8,790 £18,009
Liabilities .. .. 30,921 20,594
Excess liabilities ..£22,131 £2,585
Thus in nine years the co. has—(l) paid its modest divi-
dend : (2) paid for the upkeep of line and plant and for
any additions there may have been ; (3) put by £19,546.
Maintenance and renewals appear to be well provided
for. The situation, therefore, appears to be that, though
there is no reason at all to expect big dividends, the
present modest dividend will be more easily maintained
in the future than it was when the co. had a bigger
interest bill to meet; and, though traffic figures will no
doubt be erratic in the future as they have been in the
past, a shade better dividend than the present may
reasonably be looked for if even normal seasons continue.
At the same time, investors had better note that the
directors have throughout been very conservative in the
matter of divs., and have seemed readier to reduce them
than to increase them.
* * * *
The Mutual Store, Ltd, (Melbourne)
Writ- To
ten Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves serves
£ £ £ £ £
Jan., 1904.. 2604 5 p.c.= 2500 104 3,596
Aug., 1904.. 2513 £4,5/6 „ „ 2500 300 3,309
Feb., 1905.. 245 2* „ ~ 1250 2,304
Aug., 1905... 1639 3* ~ ~ 1666 2,277
Jan., 1906.. 2736 6 „ „ 2500 236 2,513
July, 1906.. 3577 5 „ ~ 2500 1077 3,590
Jan., 1907.. 3956 5 „ ~ 2500 1456 5,046
July, 1907.. 4542 5 „ ~ 2500 2042 7,088
Jan., 1908.. 4826 5 ~ „ 2500 2326 9,414
July, 1908.. 5547 £5/16/8 „ ~ 2917 2630 12,044
Jan'., 1909.. 4890 5/16/8 „ „ 2917 1973 14,017
July, 1909.. 5728 5/16/8 „ „ 2917 1400 1411 15,428
Jan., 1910.. 6097 6* „ „ 3333 1362 1402 16.830
July, 1910.. 6558 7* „ „ 3750 1086 1722 18,552
Jan., 1911.. 6422 7* „ „ 4025 520 20,429
Six months ago it was decided to issue 25,000 new £1
shares at par, bringing the total to £125,000. The co.’s
trouble was a mortgage. Ten years ago this debt was
£69,000; and, as very little progress had been made in
shifting it (especially in the earlier years), the total was
still £61,500 twelve months ago. The expressed intention
was to use £15,000 of the new capital in reduction of this
debt; but as the debt still stands at £50,000, it is evident
that the expressed intention has been abandoned, or
modified, or hung up. In view of the size of the debt, it
would no doubt have been better had the co. asked for a
small premium on the shares ; for the co. is not in a posi-
tion to give away any bonus to shareholders, and that is
what issue at par amounted to. Still, it is no use crying over
that now ; but what still remains to do is to insist that the
debt shall be reduced, in accordance with the promise of
the circular on which the new issue was consented to. The
co., as already mentioned, has a capital of £125,000. On
the other side, it has real estate valued at £103,625.
Since so much of the capital is represented by real estate
—business premises—a big dividend cannot reasonably be
looked for. A co. which is in leasehold premises,
and whose capital is all used in the business proper, can
almost inevitably show better results than suclh a one as
the Mutual Store. This, indeed, isn’t a trading co. only ;
it is a trading-citwt-investment co. ; and as the invest-
ment consists of city freehold, the capital represented by
that investment would be very well paid if it got 5 or 5$
per cent. There is always a tendency 7, especially at a
time like the present, to push directors and managers
towards big dividends; and in a trading or partly-trad-
ing concern, that too often leads to an inadequate
lay-by for contingencies and an inadequate allowance for
depreciation of stock. There should therefore be a set
made against the further rushing up of the dividend in
this co.; it ought to be insisted upon that, in view of the
manner in which much of the capital is invested, the
return is already very good indeed.
* * * *
Goulburn Gas Co. (Goulburn, N.S.W.):—
To Re- R?-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Dec., 1904 ..£llBO 15 p.c. = £760 £430 £7,414
June, 1905 .. 1111 15 „ „ 750 361 7,775
Dec., 1905 .. 1205 15 ~ „ 750 455 8,230
June, 1906 .. 997 15 „ „ 750 247 8,477
Dec., 1906 .. 1079 15 „ „ 750 329 8,806
June, 1907 .. 1273 15 „ „ 750 623 9,329
Dec., 1907 .. 1097 15 „ „ 750 347 9,676
June, 1908 .. 1216 15 „ „ 750 466 10,142
Dec., 1908 .. 972 15 „ „ 750 222 10,364
June, 1909 .. 1117 15 „ „ 750 367 10,731
Dec., 1909 .. 872 15 „ „ 750 122 10,853
June, 1910 .. 1090 15 „ „ 750 340 11,193
Dec., 1910 .. 412 15 „ „ 750 - 10,855
Don’t be alarmed ; the co. hasn’t cut down the price of
gas to Is. lid. or done any venturesome thing like that.
Practically the whole explanation of the apparent slump
in profits is that £4OO or more has been spent on plant re-
newal. The co.’s financial position is remarkably strong.
A comparison:—
Dec., 1902. Dec., 1910.
Liquid assets .. .. £4307 £10,104
Liabilities ... .. 266 320
Surplus .. £4041 £9,784
The paid capital is only £10,000; so an amount in excess
of half the capital has been accumulated in eight years.
No doubt there has been depreciation ; but that has been,
at any rate, partly counterbalanced by renewals and
extensions; and that there have befen considerable ex-
tensions one would judge by the fact that, whereas in the
last half of 1902 the gas and coke revenue was £2582, last
half-year it was £3012. No doubt every gas co. in N. S.
Wales and Victoria is in more or less danger of having its
wings clipped even if it manages to escape having its
neck wrung ; but, apart from that risk, this co. stands on
unusually firm feet.
* # * -It
Being designed to establish a new industry, the
Australian Marine Fibres, Ltd., makes out a prima facie
case for favorable consideration. Up at the top end of
the gulfs that are bitten deep into S. Australia, the still-
ness of the waters has promoted the growth of a fibrous
plant in the sandy shallows. An English co., the Marine
Fibres and Yarns, Ltd., is already at work dredging up
this fibre. Practically there is a deposit of it, the result
no doubt of ages of plant growth and vegetable decay.
There appears to be no question whatever that an enormous
quantity of the stuff is there. Very complete tests have
been made, with dredges and otherwise, as a result of which
it is “ considered safe to estimate that the [Australian
Marine Fibres] co’s 25* square miles will be found to contain
not less than 1,600,000 tons of marketable fibre.” L. Pit-
blado, an English engineer, sent out to test the areas sub-
sequently acquired by the English co., reported that
three dredges could recover 20,000 tons a year, and that
the stuff could be landed in Europe at £5 10s. per ton.
This estimate was based on actual experience with a
dredge. Of course, the figures as to the value of the
fibre are largely a matter of estimation ; but experts put
it at from 2d. to 3d. (2d. per lb. =£lB 13s. 4d. per ton).
The manager of the Alfred Woollen Mills, Williamstown
(Vic.), after working with the material, reported: “The
fibre could be successfully used not only in the making of
blankets and worsted serges . . . but also in ... low
carpets (particularly on account of its good dyeing pro-
perties), coir matting, hessian, bagging, and, I believe,
woolpacks. ... I can see no reason to alter my opinion,
previously expressed, that it should be worth not less
than 3d. per lb., and the finest grades even more.” Alto-
gether, it is a most interesting proposal, and here, in all
probability, are the beginnings of a very big business.
The vendors are not, however, giving away their property ;
they ask 310,000 fully paid shares of ss. each in a co. of
660,'000, of which 110,000 will be held in reserve; but
they have enough confidence in the business to take all
their payment in shares.
■» * * *
Harts, Ltd., formed to carry on various success-
ful cafes in Sydney, has issued 10,000 reserved £1 shares,
bringing the total to 50,000. These shares were under-
written, the underwriting being done by the present


The Pacific Cable Board
(Of which tiie Commonwealth of Australia is
ttie largest part owner).
The direct route to UNITED KINGDOM, CAN ADA,
U S.A., GERMANY, PACIFIC ISLANDS and
NEW ZEALAND.
RATES:-U.K., 3/-; Canada and U.S.A.,
from 2/4; GERMANY, 3/-: FIJI, Bd. per word.
“VIA PACIFIC” (Signalled free of charge).
I*» Sydney the Board has its own offices
at 40 Huntkr Struct, for dealing direct with the
Public for all INTERNATIONAL Cablegrams;
with special wire to Cable Terminus at Southport.
At this office all Standard Code-Books may be
consulted. At all other places in Commonwealth,
messages marked “ VIA PACIFIC ” are accepted
at Post and Telegraph ofljce. New Zealand cable-
grams, 44d. per word, “ VIA PACIFIC,” accepted
at all Telegraph Offices.'
Cablegram Forms, Maps, Pamphlets, and all
information on application to
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
40 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Imperial Buildings, 408 Collins Street,
Melbourne; or Southport, Queensland.
BETTI N CTO N
SMOKELESS BOILER
Adapted for Burning Slack.
Guaranteed Highest Efficiency.
Write for particulars to
FRASER & CHALMERS LTD.,
Equitable Building, Melbourne;
Macdonald Street, Kalgoorlie;
New Zealand: D. M. DAVIS, Agent, Hall of
Commerce, High Street, Auckland. [1
NOBEL-CLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting: Gelatine
Dynamite '
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
principal shareholders. They
Hart, the managing director, has deposited SO SOO pam
shares to guarantee dividends averaging at least / p
cent, for three years plus £2OOO t°r d
would no doubt be better ; but the big blockof ar e
a fairly satisfactory pledge Of the 000 goodw 11
items represent £18,700, which, as things go is fairly
modest. On past performances the 7 per cent, ought
to be very safe, for a while, at any rate. Iheie
is a heap* of money in supplying the public with
cooked food ; and the habit of buying cooked foo i is n
questionably spreading as the domestic servantdifficulty
becomes more acute. Given good management, there is
probably no business which holds out better prospects of
profit. # » « *
The Sydney Stock Exchange or some other
body ought to make a thorough inquiry into the Tol-
wong business. For months past qualified peop
been quite sure of the failure of the concern and were
positive that statements made regarding the output
could not be realised. The Question is, Did the manage-
ment, or any part of it, know? That means, of course,
did the “insiders” make use of information to
unload on to a public which was still being Persuaded
that the tiling was a great success? Men, no doubt, do
sometimes allow themselves to be wedded to properties,
can’t see a fault in them, and go down with the rest who
have put in money. People of that sort are only to be
pitied. But there is another sort—the sort which finds
out the truth, and gets out while the public is kept in.
That sort isn’t to be pitied. And, in its own interests, if
notin the interests of mining, the Sydney Stock Exchange
ought to stir itself and see which category some of the
Tolwong people belong to. *
The still weary record of the Elsmork Tin
Sluicing Co. (shares held mostly in Melbourne, mine near
Tingha, N.S.W.)
B ’ Written Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves.
Dec., 1906 .. £1163 Nil £B3l
J une, 1907 .. 2738 Nil £604 2965
Dec., 1907 .. 570 12£p.c. = £6OO 282 2653
Loss.
June, 1908 .. 305 Nil 2348
Dee., 1908 .. 184 Nil 2164
June, 1909 .. 497 Nil 1667
Profits.
Dec., 1909 .. 409 Nil 351 1725
June, 1910 .. 646 Nil 164 2207
Loss.
Dec., 1910 .. 746 Nil 178 1283
And this in spite of a bounding tin market, though there
has been a bad slump the last few days. The co. still has
hopes of lower costs and bigger production ; but, on the
co.'s record.it is impossible to work up any. confidence,
let alone enthusiasm.
Araluen Redbank (N.S.W.) has got B%>z. for
130 hours’ dredging, which is better than the average.
Last year the dredge worked 46 weeks and produced
£10,763 gold, out of which shareholders got £5600 in
divs. The reserve fund has been increased to £2155.
Some of the high ground has been disposed of to Tewks-
bury and Watson’s Mynpaehts Co., which had a steel-
dredging plant under order in Vic. when the S’African
prospect blew out. The Araluen Co. receives in payment
an allotment of shares.
The first consignment of coke has arrived at the
Hampden, Cloncurry, and the plant is near completion.
The two 200-h.p. suction-gas engines have had a trial run
and given satisfaction. The power house and equipment
appear well arranged. Two furnace-blowers have been
installed. A Dwight-IJoyd’s (American) sintering? plant
has been installed. The water-jacket furnace, built by
the Otis Co., Melbourne, is of similar design to the Great
Fitzroy furnace. It has a very high ore column to cope
with sulphides. Money has not been spared to make the
plant complete, and shortly the copper matte should be
flowing out to pay costs and future dividends. The con-
verter plant is to be erected later.
Unlike Hampden, Elliott has, as yet, very little
sulphide, and its ore is very fine ; so, since it cannot be
sintered, the stuff has to go to the furnace as it comes
from the mine. February completed Elliott’s first six-
months’ run. Except for the week’s holiday at Christmas,
the furnace has not stopped a day. As it has been on
h igh-grade matte, with slags high in silica, this speaks well
for North Queensland work. For the six months 3154
tons blister copper have been produced, which, with gold
and silver contents, should yield a profit of about £90,000.
Corbould’s estimate was 140,000 tons of 10-12 per cent,
ore above the No. 4 level; and allowing (say) 1 per cent,
loss, and looking at the stopes after six months’ work,
with 3154 tons of blister already railed, leaving
10,850 tons of copper to come, one would judge
he is well on the safe side. If they bump on the rich
shoot at No. 5 level it should add another 3000 tons of
blister, or £90,000 profit, to the previous estimates. If
the shoot is met with in the No. 5, it is fairly safe f;o say
it will carry down still further. With £60,000 returned
from the Cloncurry-Elliott line, and 20,000 shares under
option at £5 (and it is certain that, when the co. pays the
10s. dividend in April, the 20,000 will be taken up), the co.
will be in a strong position. Of course, it cannot pay away
in dividends the money got from the sale of shares, or
even that returned from the railway; so there will be
money to burn. With care, that £160,000 should yield
the coi a big profit—if it has the luck to secure another
Elliott or two. But Elliotts are not picked up every day ;
so it had better buy Commonwealth stock yielding 3£ per
cent., bank the dividends, and wait patiently.
The output of Charters Towers last month was
worth £31,402, so the goldfield is now living on about
£lOOO per day, after deducting dividends (which are very
moderate just now) and cost of stores. This would not
be enough to keep the pot boiling for 10,000 people ; so
the stocking has to be drawn upon. But the Towers
doesn’t depend entirely upon mining. The big horse-
sale a few days since made the money fly. *
Brilliant Extended, Charters Towers, crushed
3920 tons for £6489, and treated 2700 tons of tailings for
£1287. The average value of gold and concentrates per
ton of stone was £1 13s. Id., and the tailings averaged
9s. Id. per ton. Total working costs, including treat-
ment of tailings last half-year, averaged £llss. sd. Such
figures explain why last month’s profit on a total pro-
duction of £7776 only amounted to £375, or less than 2s.
per ton of stone crushed. Still, working numerous faces
from No. 4 level down to No. 19, Brilliant Extended last
half-year cleared a profit of £13,797. The sudden decline
in the value of the stone crushed this year is disconcert-
ing. One excuse is available —the tropical wet season has
affected cyaniding operations. Also the ventilation of
the deeper levels has been difficult. But, giving all this
in, things are not what they were.* *
New Brilliant Freehold is at the moment the
onlv mine at Charters Towers that indulges in dividends.
A sixpenny (£3750) has just been declared. The fort-
nightly clean-up—73o tons for £3o9o—following 711 tons
for £2078 was very profitable. While such plums can be
picked, the Freehold should produce a sixpenny every
alternate month. But the reserves are not strong, and
that’s the fly in the butter. The latest move is to re-
open the old Brilliant workings in order to get at some
blocks of ground. Owners of town allotments previously
stopped the working of a portion of the reef, but latterly
the Freehold (which, by the way, is a hopelessly wrong
name) has made terms with some of them.
* * * *
Mills’ United, Charters Towers, has crushed
2004 tons for £2540, which should give about £5OO profit.
The only bright feature in connection with development
work is the improvement of No. 14 east, very close on to
the New Brilliant Freehold’s boundary. #
The railway back from Cairns (Q.) is again open
for goods traffic, so Chillagoe smelting works will be able
to draw their usual supply of coke, and resume smelting
on normal lines. A good deal of coal-bearing land has
been taken up by the Chillagoe co. and by John Moffat,
on behalf of the Irvinebank co. The latter has secured
640 acres near Mt. Mulligan, Thornborough. Veteran
John Moffat, by the way, is in Sydney, slowly mending
after an operation. * # # .
Vulcan, the N.Q. deep tin mine into which the
unsophisticated Northerners let the knowing Southerners
buy at the moment when the tail of profits was just dis-
appearing over the hill, did better last half-year; but still
the directors don’t talk about a dividend. After writing
off £440 against depreciation, a P. and L. debit balance
of £3lll was turned into a credit of £487. Six months
ago the co. had worked its cash balances down to £249 ;
now there is a nice little lump of £4248 in hand. The
outlook isn’t, however, as good as the figures ; for it is
from the upper levels that the profit has been made.
Starting at 1070 ft.—in the bottom workings—Stone has
been followed down to 1170 ft. “ At this depth a block
of ground was met with which proved to be rather low in
tin values, and it was decided to let this stand for the
present.” Nothing has yet been found below that.
* * * *
The revived Stannary Hills (Q.) has crushed
873 tons from the Kitchener and Blackrock mines, and
494 tons from the low-grade Central Hill deposit—-a
total of 1367 tons for 13 tons lcwt. of concentrates. The
stuff will average over £1 per ton. Now, about costs?
South Glanmire and Monkland, Gympie, is
coming into notice again because of expected developments
on the Power reef. This make has given some payable ,
crushings in the adjoining No. 2 South Great Eastern.
The latter has paid a 3d. div. S. G. and Monkiand’s
crushing was 604 tons for 2980 z. The previous month’s
run gave 688 tons for 2980 z.; so the old Monkland is
keeping on an even keel. These crusliings come from the
Inglewood reef, which carries fine gold.
Bullfinch Proprietary (W.A.) is again being
pecked at. The cause of the present attack is that
Australian shareholders want sinking to be done on the
ISft. of 12£oz. ore officially reported to be showing in the
bottom of the prospecting workings at 100 ft. This work
would begin to settle the disputed question of perma-
nency. Even some firm friends of the mine don’t approve
of waiting for months and months while a nfcw main shaft
is sunk and a crosscut is driven. Moreover, the Board’s
promise of a £lO,OOO to £12,000 monthly surplus is queried
on the treatment of 7oz. or Boz. ore.
* * * *
Westralia’s gold output still dwindles. Feb-
ruary’s total was 12,4590 z. less than January’s, and
39970 z. less than that of the corresponding monthin 1910.
The total production since 1886 now amounts to
23,311,1610 z., valued at a trifle over a hundred million
sterling. The aggregate value of the State’s minerals
other than gold to the end of last month ran out at
£2,704,686, the total being made up as follows : Copper,
£979,357; tin, £926,808; silver, £247,147 ; silver-lead ore,
£9504 ; other minerals, £541,870.
* * * *
The old, old story. An option-holder’s agent
reported to London that the bottom of the Bullfinch
Main Lode at 50ft. was covered with ore worth 12J0z.,
and that the stuff was similar to the big mine lode. The
yarn was promptly cabled back to the West by Lionel
Kobinson as the reason for an improvement in the
market, and then the fun started. First of all, it leaked
out that the manager reckoned the formation was only
worth an ounce ; then it transpired that the option-
holder’s agent had not been near the show since the rich
strike was alleged to have taken place ; finally, the fact
was unearthed that the assay was from a piece of stone
showing gold supposed to have come from the Main Lode
lease. An independent sampling of the “find” is now
being urged, and in the meantime a whisper is going
round that the lode, although very good looking, doesn’t
run to ounces.
# * * *
Yarning with a western interviewer the other
day, geologist Dr. Maclaren reckoned that, although ir-
ternal costs had been reduced a good bit, they would
have to come lower if Kalgoorlie was going to save its
bacon. There were, said the doctor, two avenues to
economy to glance along—wages and mechanical power.
Both of these were, however, blocked. A reduction of
the former was inadvisable, even if it were possible, on
account of the high cost of living; while a change in the
latter was inexpedient on account of the great capital
expenditure entailed. Consequently something would
have to come off the taxes, direct and indirect,
imposed on the industry. In the case of profitable
mines, the benefit thus obtained might be compensated
for by an increase in the taxes on profits. Some mines in
the district, he believed, would be profitably working at
4000 ft. within the next decade; but he also believed that
a lot wouldn’t. A reduction in external costs might, he
thought, enable the latter mines to use up the lower-
grade ore of neglected upper levels. If Kalgoorlie were
nursed in this way there was hope of it supporting its
present population for many years to come ; but unless
assistance were given to the struggling mines the outlook
for the maintenance of the present status at Kalgoorlie was
gloomy. Seeing, however, that most of the so-called strug-
gling mining cos. at Kalgoorlie prefer to fritter away the
proceeds of past gold production or fresh capital sub-
scribed for further development in wrestling with wild
eats in other parts, any appeal made for assistance on
their behalf should not be listened to. If they must
have help, let them pass round the hat among their
wealthier neighbors and not ask the Government, which
has given them a railway, water supply and what not,
besides being content with a paltry 5 per cent, dividend
duty, instead of a thumping tax on profits. Considering
the money it has had to lay out on the field, the State
has had wretched help from the mostly-foreign cos.
* * * *
Shareholders who attended the Bullfinch East
statutory meeting in London last month were informed
(1) that the total number of shares allotted was 80,000 of
£1 each ; (2) that the total amount of cash received by
the company in respect of shares allotted was £BO,OOO ;
and (3) that the payments of the co. on capital account
and otherwise to date of report amounted to £52,026.
Some Westralian shareholders in both this and the Bull
Ant Co. are already clamoring to get their money back.
* * * •*
Since going into business as a finance corpora-
tion Lake View Consols (W.A.) has burdened itself with
the following assortment of more or less dead stock:
Anglo Siberian Co., 2500 £1 shares ; Brixworth Ironstone
Co., 11,400£1 pref. shares; General Petroleum Properties
(Trinidad), 10,200 £1 shares ; Kyshtim Corporation deben-
tures, £2500 ; Languiiitos 1 Oil Co., 150 £1 shares ; Maikop
Oil Co., 32,000 £1 shares ; Maikop Shirvansky Oil Co.,
30,456 £1 shares, paid up to 7s. ; ditto, 15,515 £1 shares ;
Newfoundland Oil Fields, 1000 £1 shares; Oisk Goldfields,
24,116 ss.pref. shares; Peruvian Oil Fields, 21,060 shares;
Roumanian Oil Fields, 500 £1 shares ; Trinidad Cedros
Oil 00., 2500 £1 shares, paid to 55.; ditto, 625 deferred
shares. In addition to this load, the co. is weighted
down with £47,000 worth of shares and debentures in the
Burma Mines Ltd., whose cake is now skilly. The sale-
able lines on its counter and shelves include 13,000 Zinc
shares, 66,425 Broken Hill South Blocks, 130,994 Hannans
Stars Consolidated, 126,999 old Hannans Stars 2s. shares,
which carry Is. 6d. per share in cash ; 126,999 Lake View
Stars and £86,700 worth of tramway, railway and insur-
ance scrip.
r * * * *
From Kalgoorlie: Bulletin (19/1/11), re Esper-
ance railway and harbor, says—“ Somethingauthoritative
ought to be available on the question of the alleged costli-
ness of turning Esperance into a safe harbor.” A special
meeting of the Chamber of Mines, August 5, 1901, passed
the report of a committee of investigation, which inter
alia said: “The weight of evidence enables your com-
mittee to report that the harbor of Esperance is a safe
and commodious harbor. The Government has already
spent a considerable sum of money in the erection of a
jetty, Customs sheds and public buildings, all of which
are of a permanent and substantial character ; and your
committee is of opinion that an expenditure of £75,000
would be ample to cover the cost of additional jetty
accommodation, lighthouse, buoys, floating lights, etc.”
So much for an opinion on facts.. Coming to fagts them-
selves : Fleets of deep-sea ships and coasters have landed
cargoes at Esperance without accident or inconvenience,
mainly, however, in the days before'Southern Cross-to-
Coolgardie railway was constructed. The harbor is
well equipped to start business at once as an ordinary
outport.
* * * *
Acid remarks in the report of the French mines-
inspector Kuss, who was lately sent out, at the instance
of the Paris shareholders, to inspect the Golden
Horseshoe (W.A.): “Whatever confidence Mr. Suther-
land may deserve from many points of view, I
propose to invite him henceforward to keep to
the following two rules: (1) Not to include
wholly in the tonnage at each level anything but
the sections opened up by adeep drive and anupperdrive
at least. If the upper drive is backward for any reason,
the deep drive will not be regarded as having developed
more than 50ft. height above it. In no case should ore
beneath that level be counted. (2) The grade of reserve
ores in each lode will be calculated in each section, at
each level, from the average grade of the ore already
extracted from the section at this level, both in the course
of driving and stoping, without any addition. On the
contrary, if in any section an average grade is thus
obtained exceeding 0'750z., it will be reduced 6 per cent.,
and an average grade exceeding loz., 10 per cent.,
in order to allow for contingencies.”
* * * *
Darlington Simpson, who once gave a dinner to
ex-Gov. Jerry Smith in the West, and had it dished-up
on gold plates, again bobbed up in the London Bank-
ruptcy Court on January 24. In the beginning Simpson
said he owed £11,827, but by the time all the claims were
in this sum was increased to £36,430. He was also a bit
out in his estimate of assets, as “ £40,707 worth ” only
realised £433. The debtor attributed his insolvency to
“debts contracted by him on behalf of various companies
in which he was interested, which debts were fully
covered at the time by the deposit of securities which
subsequently became worthless.” In view of this unfore-
seen misfortune, he reckoned he was entitled to a dis-
charge and an honorarium or something of the sort.
The Court, however, did not see things altogether in this
light; still, it imposed the minimum suspension of two
years, and gave Simpson the right at any time within
that period to apply for the order to be varied.
* * * *
Deep-sinking is fast going out of fashion at
Bendigo, especially as the New Chum line, New Shenan-
doah, leads the way back to light and forgotten stores of
stone. It has plugged for three years about 500 ft., let-
ting the gold won meet expenses. Call-making has
thus been averted, and about £lOOO saved out of dribs of
profits. Now there is talk of a dividend. To be fol-
lowed, presumably, by another drib or two and another
big wait. The co! has plenty to do in its Shamrock lease
with its cash, and so it had better wait till it has its puree
better filled before talking of dipping into it for a
dividend.
* * * *
Great Poseidon Alluvial (Vic.) has a big slab of
ground beyond the Poseidon Alluvial. Here someone
has had his eye glued to the boring tubes ; so the world
learns that all the preliminary difficulties, which were
“numerous and unexpected,” have been got over. A
reference to the co.’s balance-sheet sheds light on this
remark. While mine account stands at £4lOO, prelimi-
nary expenses (underwriting and broking) appear at
£2500. A volume can be imagined in respect to the
latter item. What is said of the claim is (1) that
boring has proved several leads to unite within
it • (2) that among these is the continuation of
the Poseidon lead; and (3) that there is a similarity 7
between the Berry leads and the great Poseidon system.
It is hard to see the appositeness of the reference.
The Great Poseidon people say that “ the fine gold con-
stituted the value of the one lead (the Berry) as it is ex-
pected to dp in the case of the other (the Poseidon).” At
the Dividend and the Poseidon, as well as at the Poseidon
Alluvial, fine gold has been almost a negligible quantity 7.
Still there is no harm in expecting. The Cathcart gold
is coarse, so the New Langi Logan folk “expect
to get fine gold in their lead. Still, expectation doesn t
put the gold in either place. For the Great Poseidon,
Frank Balding, who is hustling the shaft down, joins in
the chorus that the mine will have a prosperous future.
It would be wiser for him to be guarded until he gets
into the gutter. ' „ *
Gippsland copper and platinum show is on the
iig so a few sports are chagrined that back in the past
they paid more attention to backing ponies than to find-
ino, out what the show contained. In its way the ore
bodvis a freak, providing one of the very few known
examples of platinum in situ. ’Way back when the de-
posit was first worked by a Victorian crowd, the watchful
German, as to-day, was the metal buyer. Still, the odds
are that he was as ignorant of the presence of platinum
as was the rest of the world until the Victorian Geological
Department let light into a dark place. Wesley, of Lyell,
savs he has 84,000 tons to drop into a 100-ton furnace,
and he hopes to realise a profit of 20s. per ton of crudes.
There is doubt whether the Wesleys will find the Happy-
Go-Lucky more than its name indicates. They figure on
3oz. stuff. If they can get it Walhalla will engage in
prayer over what it let slip. Mount Lyell vigor hasnt
been dormant since it landed safely below the Devil s
Elbow, on which the mine lurks ; so Walhalla should see
the furnace smoking in a few weeks’ time.
* * * *
From London comes a story of Frank B.
Powell having been appointed to handle a scheme to
treat tin tailings dumps in Cornwall. Cousin John is
stated by the said Frank B. to have done his work so ill
that 18s. of good tin per ton remains in the dumps.
Robinson, his partner (Ted Clark), Baillieu, and John
Lempriere are now on the hunt after that 18s. One little
dump of a million tons has £569,000 of tin awaiting their
magician’s wand. The lightning calculator, dealing with
this dump, works out £7 14s. per share in a 40,000 share
00., with tin at £l4O. Or there’s £lO Us. per share with
the metal at £l7O. # *
Wallaroo and Moonta (S. A.) returns come out
every fortnight, and a recent one states that 2239 tons
ore were smelted and 213 tons copper produced. But
this doesn’t enlighten the man who wants to know how
much ore has been raised and its average value. The
official report of the S.A. Mines Department for 1910
makes matters clearer, foritshows that during thelast six
months of 1910 the mines treated 80,281 tons ore for 3204
tons copper. For the previous term 40,994 tons
were treated for 1569 tons copper. Thus the average
extraction looks like 3'B per cent. These results
are however, helped by the copper leached out of
tailings. Though the tonnage treated is thus made
plain," the tonnage which remains ;to be treated isn t.
Yet that is the point of most importance. ,
* * * *
The hunt for mining and other properties in
the East Indies isn’t yielding many prizes. Horton and
Freeman have now turned down the Belambangan option,
in Sumatra. “Big deposit, but too poor ”is the verdict.
It looks as though what the Britisher is offered the
Dutchman has refused. And the Dutchman knows a
thingor two about mining. Anyway, Australia imported
a Dutchman, G. D. Delprat, to manage its biggest silver-
lead-zinc mine and smelting co.
* * * *
Taranaki iron sand, the happle of the late Hee
Hem Smith’s heye, may have a chance at last. The late
A. J. Cadman’s estate, now managed by the Public Trus-
tee, holds a big interest in the option ; and the Trustee
has made arrangements with a Christchurch syndicate to
attempt a flotation and get to work by Marchj 1912.
* * * *
Every engineer in charge of factories and mills
should give close attention to the power wasted in trans-
mission of power. The Hyatt Flexible Roller Bearings
save 20 per cent, power and 75 per cent, of oil, so one of
the first duties is naturally for engineers to direct their
special attention to these bearings and to car boxes for
trucks. Hyatts are in continuous use in Cement Works,
Ore Dressing Mills, Factories, etc., in Australia. Bush-
ings of flexible rollers may be applied to loose pulleys or
truck wheels, etc. Should engineers require further
details, they can apply to the Australian Agents, W. &
J. Lempriere, Melbourne; or E. W. Hursthouse & Co.,
of Wellington, the Agents in New Zealand.*
* • • •
“Ferrodor” Paint.— Specially manufactured
for preserving galvanised iron and steel. Unaffected by
sea air, sulphur fumes, cyanogen gases. Used on Mort’s
Dock and Mt. L.vell buildings; Hawkesbury, Princes and
Victoria bridges ; P. & O. and N.D.L. steamers, etc.
Covers 1000 sq. yards per cwt. Does not chip or flake.
WM. ADAMS & CO., Ltd., Sole Agents, King and Clarence
Streets, Sydney.*
* # * *
Steam Users are invited to send for illustrated
catalogue of Engineering Specialities manufactured by
Bell’s United. Asbestos Co., Ltd. Every' description of
asbestos goods, patent “ Belfry ’’ steam valves and
asbestos packed cocks and water gauges are stocked
at the depdts of Bell’s Asbestos Australian Agency, Ltd.,
315 Kent Street, Sydney', and Beach Street, Fremantle ;
also at Victorian Agency', W. H. Lamond & Co., 328
Flinders Street, Melbourne.*
**» . *
Professor Richards, in the revised edition of his
celebrated edition of “Ore Dressing” 1909, devotes 14
pages to the Wilfley concentrating table, and, among
other things remarks (p. 1465): —“The first table sold
was installed in the Puzzle Mill, at Breckenridge,
Colorado. Since then over 12,000 have been sold. This
machine has revolutionised ore dressing, and as such is a
phenomenal success. The original form, and forerunner
of all modern shaking tables with longitudinal riffles.. has
been greatly improved.” And furtheron(p. 1478)remarks:
“One feature of the Wilfley table to which especial
attention should be called is its ability to separate sands
from slimes while making the ordinary concentration.
This separation is more complete and thorough than can
be made by any classifier, and should be taken advantage
of in designing mills.” In the extensive additions just
made to the Golden Horseshoe Mine (W.A.) a large
number of Wilfley Concentrators have been installed.
The Austral Otis Engineering Company, Limited, South
Melbourne, have the sole manufacturing rights.* [1
* • * *
FOR SALE Cheap, Second-Hand, 15 Break
H.P. Tang.ve Gas Engine, in good order. Apply Manager,
Bulletin Office, 214 George Street, Sydney.*
* * * *
“ Fibro-Cement ” Asbestos Fireproof Sheets. In
large size, Bft. 2Jin. x 4ft. x(about) Jin. thick, now largely
used for walls, for homesteads, bungalows, silos, cottages,
shearers’ quarters, dairies, stables. Fire, heat, acid and
ant proof. Strong, cheap, everlasting. Lower insurance
rate. Photos, and testimonials free from sole importers.
James Hardie Co., West Circular Quay, Sydney, and
581-583 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.* [1
• * * *
Extract from The Journal of Commerce,
Liverpool, 29/11/10: “Colonial Mutual. This office is
one of the best, and has the advantage of capable and
progressive management.”*
WOOD PIPE has won success by its great
qualities : ecofiomy, durability and increased carrying
capacity. The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Balmain,
Sydney, will send catalogue.*
Mink Managers and Engineers.—Send your
orders for miners’ drill steel, octagon, hexagon and
cruciform, solid or hollow ; manganese and chrome steel
castings and forgings ; all tool steels and engineers’ tools,
pneumatic tools, machine tools, saw blades and frames,
etc., to Bohler Bros. & Co., Ltd., 1 Angel Place, Sydney,
and at Melbourne.*
* * * *
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so,
write to Griffith and Kassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address, 163 King Street, Sydney ; ar,d
9 Queen Street, Melbourne.* * t 2
TUCKETT & STYLES, Machinery Auction-
eers Agents and Valuers, Tuckett Chambers, 359 Collins
Street, Melb. (J. W. Sty les, 20 years Expert Salesman.)*
* * * *
Nobel’s Dynamite Factory, Hamburg, at the
recent Brussels World Exhibition received the highest
awards, viz., Three Grand Prix for explosives of allgrades
for both mining and military purposes. This against all
coiners. Mine managers in New South Wales, who are
experiencing trouble, write the agents, Win. Adams & Co.
Ltd., 175 Clarence Street, Sydney. Large stocks onhand.*
* * * *
The Bolinder Oil Engine, which is known as the
simplest and most easily managed of all oil engines, is now
represented throughout Australia by Babcock and Wilcox
Ltd. Haymarket, Sydney. The advantages of the
Bolinder are small consumption of oil, ease of starting, no
complicated arrangement of val ves, and automatic lubrica-
tion and these are testified to by Australian users. The
eno-ine is made by a firm who have manufactured oil
engines for 25 years, and comes from a factory with an
output of 1500 engines per annum.* [1
One of the oldest and best-known engineering
concerns in the Commonwealth has been converted into
a proprietary company with a capital of £150,000, and will
now trade as Mephan Ferguson Proprietary Limited, the
governing directors being Mephan Ferguson and Robert
Shand. The head office and works are at Gordon Street,
Footscray, Victoria.* * *
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne
and Adelaide). Thirty years’ practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
* •
Assayers, Mink Managers, and Prospectors
write to H. B. Silberbkrg and Co., 443 Bourke Street,
Melbourne for particulars concerning mining requisites
and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc pulverisers to 200
mesh • hand sample grinders to 120 mesh; Ainsworth s
assay balances sensitive to 1/13000 grain ; prospector’s
balances to 1/1000 grain; weights; pocket transits;
gasolene combination furnaces; Morgans crucibles;
chemicals; etc.*


to
*/?
*
4
<c
*
o
Peter
A.
o
NO
E
R
H
E
-for over 35 Years Purveyor
to the Royal Household—has
received the Warrant of
H.M. KINO GEORGE V. ,
WHOOPING COUGH.
This disease is more likely to be contracted
when a child has a cold. According- to published
statistics, more deaths result from whooping cough
than from scarlet fever ; yet in all our experience
we have never heard of a case that did not recover
when Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy was used. It
liquefies the tough mucus, makes it easy to expec-
torate, and renders the paroxysm of coughing less
frequent and less severe.*
—3
The best cup of tea you
get throughout the day is,
generally speaking, the one you
get at breakfast.
You see, it’s like this, the
chances are you don’t tumble
cut of bed till the last minute
—then you’ve got to rush things.
You watch the kett e ti 1 it boils,
you wet the tea instantly, and
you’ve no time to let it overdraw,
and so it is made just as it
ought to be; besides, the
morning’s milk is fresh, and you
feel bright yourself, and ready to
enjoy it.
There is, however, one piece
of advice you ought to take
notice of, and that is always put
Robur into your teapot, and
see by the date on the package
that it is fresh every time you
buy it—you’ll enjoy your cup
of tea all ihe more if you
follow this advice.
QUALITY—BUCHANAN WHISKY
“BLACK & WHITE.
A
WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sthnev, March 13, 1911.
Mr Dear Artkt,—
Sydney week-ended in a cyclone of gaiety,
with the Joseph Wards, of M.L., in the centre
of the spinning orbit. Two afternoon recep-
tions, a monster dinner to the knight himself
and a dinnerette to the ladies of his party were
amongst the memories with which the visitors
will depart for America to-day. The Wards have
a son in New York learning to be like Roosevelt-
at-work, or a Flat-iron, or something strenuous
and aspiring.
As this letter closes an au reroir at home to
Mrs. McGowen, wife of the Premier, is raging
successfully at Baumann’s rooms. Mrs. Cann,
wife of the Speaker, and the consorts of the State
Ministers are running the pleasant function on
the well-oiled springs of diplomacy, cheerfulness
and sincere admiration for the temporarily-depart-
ing lady.
Lady Dudley asked for the godmothership of
the Philip Mortons’ surprise baby, and very
naturally will have her request gratified. Rachel
Joy will the babe be named. The very first pre-
sent little February Morton got was a pendant
sent her by her godmother-elect.
The ailing Prince spent last week at Moonbah,
Mr. Arthur Allen’s resort for the newly-married.
Visitors hurried down daily in motor-cars and
snap-shotted each other, watched the rain, and,
generally, enjoyed life.
This State’s new temporary addition to the
Supreme Court Bench, David Ferguson, was built
to be a Judge in a country which wants its Judges
to be able lawyers, and just, spotless and compas-
sionate men. While the Government was doing
a wise thing by offering him a place on the Bench,
the N.S.W. Institute of Surveyors was electing
the new Judge’s brother-in-law, Mr. Louis A.
Curtis, to be its president. Mr. Louis Curtis and
Mrs. Ferguson are the children of Mr. Robert
Curtis and Mrs. Curtis-Gardere, two of the vener-
ablesof Sydney. The old gentleman, whohasalmost
reached 90 without losing a tooth out of his head,
is probably the most virile man of his age in Aus-
tralia ; at fourscore-and-eight or nine he “walks
the earth like a buck in spring and stands like a
lance at rest.” For many years he was a pro-
fessor of French in Sydney’. Mrs. Curtis, now
among the most charming of old ladies, is re-
membered by ancients as the captivating young
Frenchwoman who was so admired in the
palmy days of Richmond Terrace. The vener-
able couple reside at Sutherland, on the
Illawarra line, and take a strong interest in the
beautiful R. T. Hall consumptive home on the
Blue Mountains, of which Mr. Curtis and Justice
Ferguson are joint trustees. The home was built
and endowed with funds from the estate of Mr.
Hall, a benevolent Quaker gentleman, long a
N.S.W. Treasury official; and most of the money
available came as a result of the prudent and
lucky administration of the testator’s estate.
Signalise this prosperous year 1911, please, by
doing something for that most worthy, unsectarian
and altruistic charity, the Bourke-street Hospital
for Women. A garden fdte will be held in the
grounds of the hospital on Thursday, Friday and
Saturday, March 30, 31, and April 1. The fete
will take the form of a Dutch Fair. I don’t know
what charity promoters and comic opera composers
would do if Holland were to burst its dykes
and wash itself off the map of Europe. The
quaint head dresses, the very much unhobbled
skirts, the wooden shoes, and, in the case of the
men, the baggy pants and long clay pipes are in-
valuable to the Australian and English Hospital
garden fete and the tourist with the kodak. (In
return, don’t our emus lay eggs, with vignettes of
Sydney harbor, for foreign tourists?) The Hos-
pital for Women has been under extra expense of
late owing to the building of an isolation ward
and new offices.
The death of Mr. Wills-Alien, sen., of Gunne-
dah, puts a lot of well-known people into mourn-
ing. A daughter is the wife of Major Antill, who
has just gone back to the army again after a spell
at the pastoral life. Two sons married two
Gidley King girls—descendants of the old-time
Admiral who made history in the early days of
N.S.W.—-and there is a youthful-looking widow
and a pretty, unmarried girl.
A farewell reception to Dr. and Mrs. MacCor-
mick is to occur at the Mayoress’s rooms at the
Town Hall next Thursday evening. Dr. MacCor-
mick has made a splendid fortune in his practice
as an operating surgeon, but he deserves it all,
for he has plucked men and women innumerable
from the arms of Azrael. He is one of the
c >olest and safest and quickest men who ever
handled a knife, and his fame is in no
small degree founded on the fact that he
always knew exactly what he was cutting and
why. He originally came to Sydney as Professor
of Anatomy at the University, and he now leaves
for a long holiday in his native Scotland, which
has given us so many able and steadfast men as
medicos, taking with him the unalloyed respect
of everybody and the gratitude of many a poor
penniless wretch to whose failing heart he brought
hope as he sat on a bed-side in the Alfred Hospital,
to which for many years he has given weekly a con-
siderable portion of his valuable time. The hon.
sees, of the popular good-bye-and-come-back
function are Mrs. Wills-Allen and MissMcGahey.
Staying at -the Australia a month back were the
ex-Mayoral Vincents, of Perth—he holidaying
after an election ; she on the way to Rotorua to
soak out some rheumatism. The process seemed
to be quite satisfactory, and the husband was
chasing back to his business, when the gentle and
popular lady, who had been left behind at the
baths, was struck with wholly-unexpeeted haemorr-
hage of the brain, and died after two hours of un-
consciousness. A distracted daughter was able
to intercept her father at Dunedin. They will
return, a sadly-wounded party, by the Moldavia.
Concerning the Sirens of the Surf, now on the
pedestal at the Glaeiarium. Why not Circes of
the Surf in preference? Circe had quite as
“taking” a way as any Siren, and she was wholly
woman as to figure. She hadn’t to go to roost, or
to moult, or perchance to lay eggs. Does back-
number history say anything about those girl-
headed birds, the Sirens, trading eggs to Ulysses ?
But it really doesn’t matter at this point of
time. In a Canadian bathing suit Circe or
Siren means the same, and sounds equally well.
What I started out to ask was : Was that Schil-
ling (who is leading in the contest) minted in
Germany, or do Wests claim her merely as an
alloy, so to speak, the maternal metal only being
Australian ? Anyway, she’s attractive metal, as
Hamlet said of Ophelia; nevertheless, much of
Miss Ivy Schilling’s success with the public is due
to the perfection with which she stages herself.
As a professional dancer she knows the tricks of
the poseuse. Many of the other Sirens at the
Glaeiarium may be beautifully-formed women ;
but the coyness with which they sought the
bubble reputation even at the camera’s mouth
spoilt their chances—and their figures.
Why wriggle so coyly even if you are a Siren
and dressed only in a wisp of stoekingette ?
West’s Sirens—a lot of them—hunched one
shoulder, or turned their heads over their shoulder-
blades (like a filly trying to lick a flv off her spine),
or drew up one’leg slightly, or mismanaged their
arms flagrantly. Miss Schilling in her flicker did
not stand rigidly; she swayed backwards display-
ing the fine bend at the back of her waist; and she
swayed forwards, in the attitude of diving. But
not once did she get her figure “out of drawing,”
as the artists might say. Her head was up when
she was at rest, and her shoulders were down and
held straightly back; she stood firmly on her
feet; and the public, which usually does not
know a perfect figure from a conventional one,
gave her flicker the only applause it evidently had
to give.
It would be interesting to know Miss Schilling’s
proportions. She may not be a perfectly-formed
woman. Her artfulness may go a long way
towards making her seem one. I would like to
know how she stands in relation to the following
classical prescription:—
A perfectly-formed woman will stand at the average
height of from sft. 3in. to sft. 7in. She will weigh from
1251 b. to 1401 b.
A plumb line dropped from a point marked by the tip
of her nose will fall at a point lin. in front of her great
toe. Her shoulders and hips will strike a straight line
drawn up and down. Her waist will taper gradually to
a size on a line drawn from the outer third of the collar-
bone to the hips.
Her bust should measure from 28in. to 36in. ; her hips
from 6in. to lOin. more than this ; and her waist should
be from 22in. to 28in. in circumference.
The upper arm of this perfect woman will end at her
waist line. Her forearm should extend so that her
fingers will be able to mark a point just below the middle
of the thigh. Her neck should be from 12in. to 14in. in
circumference, and her foot should wear a shoe just half
the size of her glove.
An Anglo-Australian tells your Akenehi this.
A diverting feature of life’s sordid round, these
days, is the horde of citizens who are, as they put
it, “going to the Coronation.” The first and
second saloons of every outgoing mail steamer are
simply packed with people who are off “ to see the
Coronation.” If by some miracle, Westminster
Abbey were to be enlarged so that it stretched
from, say, the Army and Navy Stores on the
west to the National Liberal Club on the
east, and were thus made capable of hold-
ing them all, the principals in the august
hat-fitting would get the shock of their lives.
Of course 90 per cent, of the departing enthusiasts
will not get a yard nearer the scene of the Crown-
ing than Peckham Rye! And they will be wise
if they don’t attempt to. A friend set out “to
attend the obsequies of good Queen Victoria.”
She got as close to the procession as one of the
arteries of St. James-street, and there had her
pockets rifled, her umbrella smashed and her feet
stamped on. After a three hours’ wait she saw
above the heads of many tall policeman and more
tall foot-soldiers the plumes of one Ljfe Guards-
man —an exceptionally lofty man on an extraordin-
arily large horse. That was the only fraction of
the obsequies to which she could attend.
The British aristocrat, take him for all in all,
rarely gets a fair deal from the press. Last week
a Sydney evening paper accused a harmless old
English marquis of bigamy. That is to say, it
charged the Marquis of Cnolmondeley with having
married Mrs. Stirling—who was divorced recently
—his own wife, Winifred Ida, being still alive. It
went further, and alleged that the infatuated old
gentleman had sacrificed a legacy of £30,000 to
gratify his guilty passion. As a matter of fact, it
was the vilified ancient’s son who did the deed.
Nor is it certain that he lost any money by
it. Lady Meux, the eccentric wife of the million-
aire brewer of that name, left the youth a portion
of her money “on condition he married in society.”
It is conceivable that the sheeting-home of a
charge of habitually wearing elastic-sided boots
or a cairngorm brooch might exclude a female
from the Smart Set; but the fact of having been
divorced—never ! The only socia‘l function where
the divorcee doesn’t attend in large numbers,
nowadays, is the Court; and what with the
highly respectable, not to say Wowser-like, ways
of the new Sovereigns, and the hordes of pro-'
vincial aldermen and their wives, reputable mer-
chants, niggers and carpet-bagging politicians
they gather round them, a feeling is growing
up in many minds that the Court is as dull,
un-Smart and generally stuffy as a Little Bethel.
Apropos, the S. M. Herald’s London corres-
pondent had a priceless suggestion to offer last
week :
And here, once more, do I urge that, as so many people
come to England on an occasion like this to get but a
sight of the King, who cannot attend Court or be pre-
sented, tlie Council of the Royal Colonial Institute should
endeavor to get bis Majesty the King to attend the 1
annual conversazione in full dress in his Mantle of the
Garter, accompanied by the Queen in full Court dress, so
as to let the people see their rulers in the state and cere-
mony which is not denied to those better off.
It is a very frank recognition of the great truth
that the majesty that doth hedge a king is largely
a matter of clothes.
Composer Alfred Hill, whose “ Moorish Maid ”
evoked such admiration from the cognoscenti,
has taken up the teaching grind in Sydney. He
can’t possibly have anything like the business
ability of Paderewski, who is a poultry fancier,
and who, a Sun cable says, recently sold a brace
of white fowls for £l5OO. Hill’s “Maori Sonata”
.remains unpublished; yet those who know and
who have heard it, say that it is fine enough to
lure the Heavenly Maid herself down from skyey
parts. Mr. Hill is writing something specially
for Miss Lily Seton, to be played at her concert,
by and bye, before the girl leaves for Europe.
Mrs. Alec Gordon is taking a great interest in
Miss Seton’s' concert, and will herself appear on
the programme.
Mr. Andrew MacCunn. the comic opera musi-
cal man, is twice an eligible. He is now qualified
for membership of the Automobile Club, and has
tacitly promised to love, honor and obey a
Panhard. Also, being unmarried, he is eligible
to be secured by some nice girl as a first-rate meal
ticket.
Another eligible has a new motor of a
delicate pastel shade. Mr. Maurice Toohey is
the possessor. Possession is a Hotchkiss. It
sounds more of the man-killer than the ben-slayer,
and isn’t a name you are in the habit of seeing on
the thing that runs over you in Sydney streets.
The new season’s veilings are alluring. There are
fewer of the Worst-Wornan-in-Londpn meshes,
and the Frisker-of-Babylon designs are out of
sight. Also, the reptile, creeping-insect, domestic-
and wild-fowl—in short, the zoological—veil
is no longer between you and your fashionable
fellow-woman. The new black veilings are of the
softest, dull, raven-black. There are no grotesque
designs—only a few simple geometric problems,
and the black net with the little knobs or squares
worked in with the needle. It is the handwork
that makes them so expensive. And the size, of
course : they must be so wide to suit the huge
hats. Eleven shillings a yard was what a
George-street Mrs. Hat asked me for an un-
obtrusive sample. She is a not by any means
expensive Hatter, and when I dropped the face-
softener, “like a guilty thing surprised,” she
explained that its all-silkness and the handwork
were the causes of its naughty price. Later, in
another Hattery, I saw veilings at 18s. and 20s. a
yard. The putting-on of these veils is a m nor
art. You must fold, or swathe them under the
chin ; the side-extensions of the hat will guide and
inspire you ; and the fact that you’ve paid close
upon a sovereign for your piece of veiling
will make you think twice before you lick
stamps, or absent-mindedly absorb milk-and-
soda through a straw without raising your
precious ’ mesh. So many swathings under the
chin will make artistic hoisting of the veil some-
what difficult; therefore will you frequently fore-
go afternoon tea in public places.
Saw an uncommon waist-belt lately worn with
a white linen frock. It was of green, embroidered
leaves on pale mauve linen. The yoke of the
blouse had some sprays of what looked like
dolichos, with a tiny mauve flower.
One of the imported good-lookers now flirting
in “The Gay Gordons” is going to conjugate
later in America with a young Australian. Miss
Evelyn Aborn is the girl, and the man is Mr.
Leopold Stach von Goltzheim, of St. Kilda, a son
of the late Baron of that name who stood trans-
plantation successfully. His children are hardy
Australian bloomers. Bride-to-be is a daughter
of an English landscape painter. Her fiance,
who is also on the stage, has just left for America
under engagement to the Orpheum Syndicate.
They’ve got a new and timely gag in Chronic
Miss Gibbs at the Royal. Mr. Holland asks:
“Will you hold my hand at the Coronation?
I’m going to get a tooth crowned this afternoon.”
A bright Sydney woman who has been wearing
out a good many pairs of shoes—land-shoes, deck-
shoes, sand-shoes and snow-shoes —in many years
travel in Europe, says in a recent letter to me
that ill-temper is now quite a recognised part of
the outfit of travelling married couples. “ Fifteen
years ago,” remarks my correspondent, “theyoung,
middle-aged and old couples I used to meet on
these fashionable or tourist-haunted highways got
along without apparent friction. But those I
meet to-day—well, I’m not one to put all the
blame on Eve, but I do think the wife is the
cause of this new form of travel-rash. Her hat
boxes are at the root of it. And she travels with
twice as many trunks as she did some years ago.
Hat boxes and trunks get the husband under, and
he presently scowls and later swears, and the wife
of his bosom presently sulks and later nags.
Yesterday I was at the Customs House, between
Italy and Monte Carlo, with a distracted-looking
American and his wife. The latter had 18 large
trunks in the van and 10 smaller ones in the car-
riage, and she hadn’t even the saving excuse of
being good-looking.”
Mr. J, C. Williamson arrives in Sydney the
day these lines meet your eye.
Mr. Beaumont Smith, sometime journalist and
late of the William Anderson managerial staff,
paced into my official lair 10 minutes ago in a way
that brought the words of a one-time favorite
song to mind. Something about a “manly figure
straight, with fortune, love and hope elate.” He
had the Cause with him. She is a tall, blue-
eyed, red-haired, slender Mrs. Beaumont Smith,
and they depart on the Otranto honeymooning.
“ Wonga ” sends a note to comfort me :
You suburbanites, who are spending the nights en-
tangled in winding nets, smearing yourselves at eventide
with fearsome mixtures, should thank your stars you are
not out in the Nor’-West just now. The rain has brought
mosquitoes out not in your millions, but in billions, and
young lambs, who are not provided with curtains, are
simply being driven ratty.
The forthcoming production of “Civil War”
by the Sydney Stage Society should be well worth
the entrance inoney. Mr. G. S. Titheradge is to
appear in it; also his daughter, Mr. Raymond
and Ur. Cyril Shepherd. Ur. Shepherd is among
the most skilful of our amateur mummers. Since
he left the Navy, married the eldest Miss Meri-
vale and settled down here, he has been one of the
main supports or props of the Stage Society.
The following, which is probably as authentic
as most of its kind, may impress those who
cheerily pay half-crowns to be hoodwinked by
clairvoyants. William 1., when King of Prussia,
met a gipsy fortune-teller who told him he would
be an Emperor. He asked, “ When ?” She said,
“ Think of the Revolution which ended in 1849.
Now take the numbers of that year and repeat as
follows: i
1849+1+8+ 4 + 9 = 1871.
In 1871 you will be Emperor.” “ When shall I
die?” asked William. “Repeat again,” said the
gipsy :
1871 + 1 + B+7+l = 1888.
“Will the Empire last?” “No. Repeat again :
1888+1+8 + 8 +8 = 1913.
That is the end.” So if Australia can only hold
out for two years after the termination of the
Anglo-Jap alliance, with no navy to speak of and
an army of small boys, the Cold Land should be
able to spare quite a lot of ships and grown-up
men to defend us.
A year or so ago English and Scotch illustrated
papers published the portraits and gave accounts
of the wedding of two “ high contracting parties,”
the Duke of Vizeu, eldest son of Dom Miguel of
Braganza, and Miss Anita Stewart, step-daughter
of “Silent” Smith, the Chicago millionaire. The
Duke, it seems, is the only duke working in a
stock-broker’s office. He is just an ordinary
clerk, and clerks well. As his wife is a million-
airess, it is to his credit that he does not loaf on
her.
A distinguished Sydney barrister is pondering
on the mind of a child. He is a keen High
Churchman, and enthusiastic as a keeper of Lent
and in attendance at church services. When this
Holy Season started he asked his young family
what they were prepared to do in the way of self-
denial. To his six-year-old daughter he put the
query: “Now, Silken Hair, what will you give
up?” “Please, father, if I may. I’ll give up
going to church,” was the eager reply.
With this Letter I make my valedictory curtsey
to you. Pronunciation of my pen-name has wor-
ried all but my country-people for nine years.
Now I depart for sea-and-land-faring in new
and old worlds. My successor will address you
under the rhythmic and easily-spoken name of
“ Vandorian.”
Yours affectionately,
AKKENEHI
There was once a man who bought a pic-
ture, the beautiful work of a genius. He had
denied himself many luxuries and even some of
the necessaries of life to get it, and when he got
it he placed it in a handsome frame and hung it in
his dog-kennel. There were other places where
he might have hung it so that it might have been
a perpetual spring of enjoyment, but—just why
he chose the dog-kennel is known only to the
Commonwealth Parliament and King O’Malley,
who lately told the Victorian Institute of En-
gineers that he “wished to make the Federal
capital the most beautiful city in the world.”


ARDATH
LONDON
VIRGINIA
CIGARETTES
.
i
Types of
British Manhood.
THE DOCTOR
smokes “ Winfred ” Cigarettes
because he knows the importance
of smoking only high-class cigarettes
made under hygienic conditions.
The cigarette has been
much discussed by the
medical profession, and
few brands have satis-
factorily withstood their
searching examination.
Medical experts and
smokers the world over,
however, unite in praising
“ Winfred ” Cigarettes.
10
6d.
1 /-
Plain or Gold Tipped
Obtainable of all leading Tobac-
conists, Stores, Clubs, Hotels.
&c., throughout Australia.
Sole Manufacturers:
ARDATH TOBACCO CO.,
LONDON.
500,000 Copies Sold of the Popular
Bookstall Scries of Australian Novels.
Written, Illustrated and Printed in Australia.
Price II- Each. Post Free, 1/3.
“THE HEART OF THE BUSH.”
By BRODA REYNOLDS. Illustrated by H. Carter.
Price l/=; Postage 3d.
“ The Heart of the Bush ’ shows conclusively that the people of the cities hold no
monopoly of the human passions, for the story teems with incidents in which love and hate,
jealousy and revenge weave in and out of the web of Destiny in such a way as to enthrall the
reader from cover to cover. That this gifted author has an intimate knowledge of the affairs
of the bush, as well as the affairs of the heart, must be apparent to the most casual observer,
and those of us who have either memories of Bushland, or just “that touch of Nature that
makes the whole world kin,” will revel in the absorbing atmosphere that pervades these pages.
The episodes that culminate in the duel in Dead Man’s Gully are depicted in language that
leaves no doubt.
“THE LOST ECHO.”
By JAMES GREEN (Author of “The Selector,” etc.)
With four illustrations by H. J. Carter.
Paper Cover. Price 1/- ; Postage 3d.
Mainly, this is the authenticated story of the Richmond, written by one who has made
pioneering a close study for many years, and who brings to his work the charm and glamor of
the born storyteller. Incidentally, we are treated to some very amusing episodes, and many
gallant fights both against the fierce black tribes whose strongholds were being invaded, and
against the mighty forces of primeval Nature.
Running parallel to these exciting events is the evergreen romance that gilds the stern
lives of the pioneers as surely as it kindles the hearts of kings. An altogether refreshing book,
true to Nature and racy of the soil.
“Tommy the Hawker (El His Boy Snifter.”
By EDWARD DYSON, author of “The Golden Shanty,” etc.
Fully Illustrated. Price 1/-, Post Free 1/3.
Tommy the Hawker is a “character,” and Snifter is not one whit behind. This is essen-
tially a humorous book ; but it is something more, for on various occasions the Hawker shows
himself to be a man of parts—cool, calculating, daring and courageous. The stratagem by
which he, single-handed, captured two bushrangers is in itself worth buying the book for, and
his raiding of the Chinese gambling den is a fine example of what nerve, resource and courage
can accomplish.
“TOM PAGDIN—PIRATE:.”
By E. J. BRADY. With Four Full-Page Illustrations by LIONEL LINDSAY.
Price 1/- Postage 3d.
Buccaneering in the olden days was the sailor-man’s dizzy limit, and every youth who found
the home-life humdrum made up his mind to run away to see and eventually become a pirate.
“ But there are no pirates in Australia,” you say. Well! just you read “Tom Pagdin,”
and you will find enough adventure packed rnto a few weeks’ pirating to satisfy the veriest
glutton. Fights, robberies, cannibalism, murder and heroism fairly stumble over each other,
while the ultra-seriousness of the youthful pirates becomes so positively ludicrous that even a
mute must be amused.
The author is to be congratulated on striking an entirely new vein.
LISTS SENT POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS.
N.S.W. Bookstall Co., 476 George St., Sydney.
All Branches
and
Booksellers.
HARDY BROTHERS
LIMITED
VICE-REGAL
gh
JEWELLERS
AN IDEAL
WEDDING PRESENT,
i
W
V V r
f)
a*S,
w
m
<oo^
M'S
W
"3>
SIP
in
umaiiiiwinißg
Best Quality Silverplated
Flower Stand,
IGjin. High, 22in. Long,
£6 6s.
FLOWER STANDS, FLOWER VASES and TABLE DECORATIONS IN LARGE VARIETY.
LARGE ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE FORWARDED POST FREE.
13 HUNTER ST., SYDNEY ; and 113 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE
19 CHARTERHOUSE STREET, HOLBORN CIRCUS, LONDON, E.C.


4/-
JUST TO ADVERTISE!!
A Sixpenny Bottle of CALDWELL’S
INK and a Half-Guinea 14-carat Gold-
Nib, Iridium tipped, twin feed Fountain Pen for
If you can’t buj r locally, send Postal Note
direct to
CALDWELL’S INKS PTY. LTD.,
Yarra Bank Road, Melbourne.
HAPPY THOUGHT!
A “Montserrat ” Lime Juice and small Soda
hut see it is “ Montserrat ’’—the genuine kind.
I?
ifl&sas
fef
iHt
1
j*
oftss
“Why We Win!”
“ Merit alone lasts—subterfuge and false
worth may linger along—may obtain some
success—but the inevitable crash is only
the greater. Merit has, and always will
win out. The famous French
Royal
‘P.D.’
Rustless Corsets
throughout the whole world of Fashion in
Europe, America, Australia (and where-
ever civilisation has made its way) are the
Corsets that appeal to my sisters—because
we are so exquisitely modelled, so beauti-
fully designed, and made of such fine
materials that we win our way into the
affections of all womankind by True Merit
and Worth.
“ Yours sincerely,
“A Royal ‘P.D.’ Model.’*
“None Genuine without Trade Mark.”
TRADE
i
-V7
MARK.
HAYWARD’S
Costumes 8 Riding Habits
are Known All Over Australia.
WRITE OR CALL FOR
CATALOGUE OF NEW FASHIONS.
323 George Street, Sydney
Odd.
Paling’s.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, March 13, 1911.
Mr Dear Yarrie,—
All last week the name of Flemington was
Mud. Visitors from other States took Tuesday’s
postponement cheerfully enough; hut when
Thursday brought more postponement the taverns
were full of long faces. On Tuesday, many men
and a small collection of motoring women got as
far as Flemington. The G.-G. party likewise'
arrived, and not in rainy-day dress either. The
little Countess was dressed in an exquisitely
unsuitable ivory cloth coat and skirt and a
white hat. Mrs. Prowse and Miss Bingham
looked as smart as robins in the rain. An inde-
fatigable aide hurried off in the downpour to hear
the result of the ominous consultations, and the
party took the adverse result with laughter and
applause, and bundled for motors again without
delay.
Mrs. Wally Kerr, of Sydney, and a party of
pretty girls who motored out established them-
selves on the stand, and had actually sent some
money down for the first race before the day’s
sport was cancelled. On the way back to town,
tiie water was so high that it got into the engine
of their motor. They sat in soggy misery until
the car could be induced to go again.
The racegoers who journeyed out to the course by
train are saying harsh things about pass-out
checks. The scramble for the bits of green paper
was at times too awful to face. Some cute persons,
in the struggle, managed to “ make ” several pass-
out cheeks, by mingling in the crowd and .turning
up again. And next day some cuter persons
started a brisk business in fonjed ones. The heart
of the racing world seems to be desperately wicked.
The much-postponed Australian Cup was run
at last on Saturday, and The Parisian galloped
home about eight lengths in front of the, field:
The win was easy ; but I believe the time was as
good as that put up by Lord Ullin’s Daughter—
the lady who in 1905 made a new record for the
race. Some racegoers gave aristocratic Fleming-
ton a country race-meeting look by bringing a few
babies and picnicking on the lawn. The crowd of
visitors at present occupying the guest-rooms at
Government House helped to till the vice-regal
pen. It may have been due to the break in the
weather; anyhow, I noticed a festive air about
the Governors whose passages ’Ome are booked.
Opening Parliaments and bazaars must be harder
work than it looks.
As the Coronation approaches, royal blue begins
to rage. One windy afternoon last week I
noticed a woman in a tight-fitting, royal-blue
satin dress ; a sponged-on coat of woad couldn’t
have fitted her better. Another royalist, hatted
and veiled in blue, put a blue feather boa round
her neck and showed a livid white face from the
tierce backgrounding. At Flemington there were
royal blue dabs all over the grandstand and lawn,
as if an impressionist had been throwing paint
about.
At this meeting the little Countess added to
her usual white raiment criss-cross streaks of
butter-colored lace; also, she wore some pink
pearls which would probably buy up a small
country, but which Gertie gets copied wonderfully
well in a rolled-gold shop for eighteen pence the
string. The Carmichael lady was in silver grey ;
and Governor Carmichael wore an immense silver-
grey tie like grandfather’s stock. Pretty Ruby
Madden Osborne, dimpled in black, and cousin
Miss Bingham showed a family likeness in dimples
and a pink-and-white dress. Mrs. Alistair Clarke
was tastefully garbed, but her parasol eclipsed her
dress. (The parasol, by the way, is rapidly becoming
the most assertive thing about a woman’s outfit.)
This one was black and high, and had an immense
bow of black ribbon clamped on to the stick, with a
jet button as big as a dinner plate. How happy
a woman can be with such a possession ! Mrs.
Macdonald added a hat of cerise roses to her quiet
black tailorings. Mayoress Davey had water-
lilies in her hat; the damp week must
have forced their growth. Mrs. Champagne
Teale made an autumn picture. Her dress
was dull gold smothered in black veiling;
her hat was a granny’s “ mutch” of the same
sombre hue, and her muff, woven to match, had a
small touch of fur and a cute bunch of roses.
Mrs. Doctor Ramsay Joyce, who looks like a
twin sister of visiting Mrs. Teale, wore the new
color that is like nectarines or rock melon. Mrs.
Enid-Whiting Walters backed The Parisian, and
put the luck down to her new frilly green hat.
Mrs. Sydney Wally Kerr waved plumes of
black and white, and sheltered pretty Miss
Hickey under her ostrich wing. Mrs. Geof
Syme wore Dutch blue and white and a hat
tilted from her face.
The granny’s “mutch” hat abovementioned is
among the latest millinery arrivals. It can be made
to look smart and saucy, or plain dowdy. It covers
all the hair, and has a skye terrier fringe over the
eyes. A sample worn by one unlucky girl at the
races had an edge of silver brown fur, and, as her
own locks were hidden, spectators gazed with
liorror at what looked like a wobbling wig or
witch’s mop.
The ex-Mayoral Burstons, who depart London-
wards this week, were the guests of honor at a
Gaud Mayoral spread in the Town Hall on
Friday. The councillors, their womenfolk and
half-a-hundred Collins-street medicos were the
other people round the groaning board—or the
board which might have groaned if the carpenter
hadn’t done his duty. Mrs. Burston was pre-
sented with pendant diamonds, and Miss Burston
got a turquoise and gold bracelet to wind round
her white arm. Blue is a good color to present to
a pale, Titian-haired girl. Papa Burston was
presented with a picture of himself (it was larger
than life size), which is to hang in the Town
Hall, and a small replica for his house.
Admiral Henderson, after being officially dined
by the local warriors, departed by the Orsova on
Wednesday with his Lady. Singer Mary Conly
and the other passengers on the outgoing boat
shared more or less in the pomp and ceremony of
the send-off. The wharf was brightened by a
guard of honor, with Lieutenant Biddlecombe in
command. Rear-Admiral Creswell, Major-General
Hoad, Comhiander Hyde and Captain Tickell
were also alongside, and the place gleamed with
gold braid
A Bourke-street chiffon store stopped the traffic
one day last week by getting two masked girls
dressed in harem-scarems to promenade in the
largest window. To kill time, the stared-at pair
played languidly with shoes and scarves and fans
which a beaming walk-this-way gentleman handed
for their inspection, while the immense crowd
flattened its collective nose on the window. The
store got a fine advertisement out of it, and the
bargain crowd of its life. One girl wore green
trousers, very baggy ; the other got into skimpier
tunnels of black satin. They added a burnous
each to the costume; but one Arabic burnous
was made Russian at the waist. Some of the
Parisian versions of the harem combine Turkish
trousers with up-to-date English hunting vest
and coat.
The harem skirt must be “coming” in Australia.
A Melbourne manufacturer of paper patterns
says that within three weeks every pattern she
possessed of anything approaching trouserettes
has been bought up. The rush even consumed
the wayback designs for those knickers into
which the sex crept during the bike boom. Ob-
viously man is going to have some difficulty in
holding his own.
Lace-making is becoming a craze. All the real
old lace is falling to pieces with age, and because
the hasty modern methods of cleaning don’t give
filmy treasures much encouragement to hang to-
gether. So far, no substitute has been found for
the loving care of our great and leisurely grand-
mothers who used to carefully spread every fila-
ment and bleach the cobwebs on secluded hedges
and velvet lawns, whilst they dreamed by the sun-
dial. The'Arts and Crafts people have nursed
the. reviving industry back to health, and the
Carmichael lady—who should have a fine needle
added to her crest—has acted the part of Florence
Nightingale. She courageously invited the
needlewomen in country corners to send along
“samples” ; and when, out of the cartloads of
crochet patterns, she dredged a sign of in-
spiration, she would get ■ into touch with
the owner and urge her to do better. The
“revival” has reached such a point that the
Work Association has acquired Miss Culkin, an
expert fyom over-sea, who knows all there is to
know about lace. She will teach lace-making, or
will mend priceless bits of aged cobweb. The
modern woman often inherits beautiful bits ; but
usually golf and tennis have spoilt her touch for
needlework, and she is unable to look after her
riches personally.
A big wedding like the Hordern-Bingham affair
makes one hate with a vindictive hatred the ugly
railings round St. Paul’s Cathedral. They may
have been necessary when the grass plots were
newly planted ; but it is time they were uprooted
and hidden in the crypt. From an artistic point
of view it would be better to throw open the space
and allow the flower-sellers to bank their baskets
of color against the grey stone walls, as they do in
Continental cities.
Last week the weather affected all sorts and
conditions of frivol. The Army and Bar, repre-
sented by ponderous Old Boys of 1 Melbourne
Grammar School, were to have played a dignified
cricket match on Friday ; but the desperate busi-
ness had to be put off.
Wearied out by the weather and the consequent
race postponements, no, less than 100 Sydney-
siders dragged their baggage out of one large
tavern last week and fled north like the swallows.
One party of weather-bound invaders tried to kill
time by motoring into the sodden hills. But the
motors got bogged, and all hands had to tramp
four long, muddy miles to food and shelter. They
decided then that it was time to pack up.
The Tait railway palace became a cave of rush-
ing waters on the first day of the Big Rain. The
subways were transformed into underground
rivers and the steps into cataracts. Only one
entrance point of the rambling building was ne-
gotiable. Other admittance gates were closed
with iron grilles, and yelling porters directed
advancing suburbanites to paddle on to the front
entrance. Five inches of rain in three days or so
is enough to try any building ; but isn’t it possible
to build railway stations so that they won’t be
combinations of burst aquariums and artesian
streams directly the weather gets hysterical.
Governor Dudley and his crowd have been
keeping the Taits on the jump with their “com-
mands.” The other night they had a fancy to
study the sensational picture of “The Hansom
Cab,” and requested that the film should be shown
at Government House. The masterpiece was duly
forwarded with operator, lecturer and other sun-
dries ; but when it arrived, the Government
House people were too tired or too busy to view
it, and hinted that they would give it a glance at
the earliest opportunity. The next day, or the
day after, the Taits were just about to commence a
matinbe performance at the Glaciarium, when
there was a rush of air, and a cold, even voice
announced that his Excellency would be there
directly. Immediately the small cousin of a stir
was started by Taits’ attendants clearing a pad-
dock of chairs.
The Alliance Frangaise had its first soiree of the
year on Friday evening, when the Independent
Hall was gay with the tri-color. For diversion
there was music and the reading of a French play-
let, in which the part of the leading man was
taken by Vanderkelen, the handsome amateur
theatrical star. Ougnet, brother of aviator
Cugnet, Miss Coinmans and little Miss Larnande
were also in the cast. A large party of French-
studying locals followed the comedy, and
laughed in an agonised way at the French
jokes, lest some kind neighbor should con-
clude that the point had been missed.
There was a very charming programme of music.
Miss Parker coaxed Schumann from the piano ;
Miss McFarlane, with her violin, wailed out a
romance of Rics ; Mrs. Aubertin sang ; and Mrs.
Gay, of the Titian hair and Parisian pallor, was a
graceful accompanist.
Artist Tom Humphries has a new picture
quietly stowed away in his studio while it is under
offer to the Felton Bequest people. It is the
strongest thing he has done, and represents the
work of over a year. The canvas is a study of the
Australian bush in the moonlight before the after-
glow of the sunset has faded out of the sky. The
trunks of the gums are pallid and weird in the
light of the moon, and the long tree-shadows
stretch from the edge of the forest across the open
country. It is a tine composition. Humphries
has also a collection of charming water-cdlor
sketches of the long beaches and cliffs round
Westernport.
The top notes of the approaching Sheffield
Choir can almost be heard now when the winds
are still, and no biplanes are about. There are
200 choristers, and they are all booked at the
Grand Hotel. Rehearsals should shake that
tavern to its foundations. Several of the singers
wear titles ; but they don’t cut any extra ice on
that account when on the platform.
A big private ball, which enlivened P’ran Town
Hall one night last week, is puzzling the naicest
within coo-ee. There, were no formal invitations
discoverable —you were apparently just asked to
drop in to the Champagne Ball, as it was dubbed
The host-in-chief was a man who has to do with
the fizzy liquid. He is a visitor at Guv’ment
House, and a personal friend of G.-G. Dudley.
Donald Macdonald, Melbourne’s best-known
pressman, is convalescing in Dr. Fred Bird’s pri-
vate hospital. Some internal trouble had been
worrying him, and last week he submitted to an
operation. He is now hurrying towards recovery.
Geoffrey Syme sails shortly for London with
Mrs. Geoff and the three children. They will
only be in England two months. “ But that is
better that nothing,” says the wife of the busy
man. Sister Greta Garnett returns to England
with the cavalcade after a long visit to these
shores.
Charlie Wallace has gone back to Lanark for
the first time since the sensation. After that
racket he planted himself down in the Macken-
zies’house in East St. Kilda, and left Lanark,
furniture and all, to the casual tenant. Lately,
however, the house has been standing empty ; and
to save it from becoming a white elephant, he and
his small son have gone back. The unreliable
Mrs. Rumor persists that he is shortly going to
England.
The Einmertons are back and settled down once
more at their South Yarra house. The tennis-
playing fiance of daughter Mabel met them at
Colombo and escorted them home. The newly-
returned form one of the small groups of restful
and satisfied people in Melbourne at this present
moment; the others are either packing to go or
yearning to pack to go to the Big Crush. One re-
turned tourist says: “I saw the King’s funeral;
that’s enough of a London crush for vie ! We had
expensive reserved seats, but we could not get to
them. We got up at an unearthly hour and
breakfasted in gloom and bad temper, pushed
through to within sight of our seats at eight
o’clock —and that was the end of it. We never
reached those seats. We should have been there
at five o’clock in the morning to get through the
crowd.”
A widow who changed her name a while ago,
and took her No. 2 husband abroad with her on
family business, has returned to Melbourne, and
seemingly left the new name behind her. Any-
way, her visiting cards are as they were in the
old days. She is once more the widow; or per-
haps she is merely asserting the right that belongs
to a bereaved countess who marries a noble of
inferior grade.
Memories of the Elingamite, wrecked on the
Three Kings, off the Maoriland coast, in 1902,
have been revived by the discovery made recently
by the officers of the Powerful, that the rocks
were wrongly charted. Captain Attwood, the
Elingamite’s unlucky commander, had his certifi-
cate suspended for 12 months at the inquiry into
the causes of the disaster. The sea chief, how-
ever, has been doing shore work ever since his
trouble, of which the incorrect chart is now
alleged to have been the cause. If it is so, the
wronged mariner cannot too soon have the smudge
wiped off his ticket.
Clarence Weber, the physical culturist, opened
his new' rooms in Elizabeth-street last week. Dr.
Springthorpe made the opening remarks, after
which several young men came forward to prove
that physical exercise is an industry as well as an
art ; they toiled at weight-lifting, wrestling, skip-
ping and what not. Subsequently Weber, whose
beauty is exceedingly Grecian, displayed his
strength in manifold feats. The audience was
impressed, though the evening forbade all delight
in muscular activities. The temperature was
melting, and one or two people were more in .a
condition to be measured in pints than in pounds.
News floats in of the cheerful Bland’olts. They
write from Nice of a golden holiday at Monte
Carlo, where they accumulated just enough win-
nings to make them happy.
The Albert Park Ladies’ Swimming Club is
holding an aquatic sports meeting at Stubbs’
Baths, St. Kilda, on Saturday afternoon. The
Carmichael lady has given her patronage, and
will be present. Not a man will be allowed on the
premises.
The Victorian Bulldog Club “requests the
pleasure” for Saturday afternoon, March 18, at
Cremorne-street, Richmond. The affair is the
Fourth Annual Members’ Show. This young
dog-show is a one-day affair, at which
owners can proudly parade their animals,
have them criticised by excellent judges, and then
personally , conduct the valuable things to their
own cosy kennels, Baby bulldogs and Australian-
bred bullpups will be given special prizes to
encourage them to exist. Owners of bullpups and
bulldogs know the bother of exhibiting their
animals at shows which last for several days.
Bulldogs are the most highly-strung members of
the canine community, and they resent strangers
handling them more than any other animal that
wears a bark at one end and a tail at the other.
Then they are liable to go into hysterics and suffer
afterwards from nervous prostration, if left for a
night or two in strange surroundings with no
chance of getting at the other hound.
From “Rosna,” of Adelaide :
Their Exes, were the chief exhibit at the Show at
Willunga last week. It is a curious old town, which
winds in and out among green hills; and if, after robbing
one of its beautiful fruit-gardens, you drop over the
fence, you are always liable to break your neck by falling
fathoms deep into a slate quarry.
Mayor Oohen is in hard training for his forthcoming
trip. The citizens are giving him a banquet shortly, and
he will retaliate later. In between, their Excellencies
and the lesser Great are energetically bidding him and
his wife to feast and be merry, for to-morrow they sail.
The Government is thinking about building a mono-
railway from Roseworthy station to the Agricultural
College. There is already one working satisfactorily in
South Aus., and its cheapness appeals to the Commis-
sioner.
An Adelaide bachelor-medico, Dr. O’Halloran Giles,
passed out in Victoria last week, aged only a little over 40.
He belonged to the bjg Giles clan, and had practised at
Glenelg for years. \
The State has bought Dr. Hyne’s fine private sana-
torium in Flinders-street for £ll,OOO. It is only divided
from the block of Government offices by a church, and
will be used by the Minister of Education and his
minions.
The Society of Arts is calling in exhibits for its annual
show, and at the moment of writing the high panjan-
drums of the selection committee are busy deciding
which lofial daubers are most deserving of celestial
eminence. We always sky good things in Adelaide, lest
we should accidentally encourage Art, which would be
scandalous. As witness of this spirit consider the follow-
ing advt. from an Adelaide daily
A/lUSICIAN requires situation as Handy Man in
NT place of trust ; bombardon and violin.—Gray,
P. 0., Marion.
Dr. Harold Davies’s Bach Society will intone “ The
Dream of Gerontius” on 11th April. No less than 120
nightingales and 45 accompanying instruments will make
glad and other noises on the occasion. The songbirds of
the Bach Society are bound by stern laws in regard to
rehearsals, compulsory attendance being one condition
of membership. Consequently their chorus work is as
near perfection as it is healthy for anything to be in a
hollow world. No matter how magnificent your warble,
if > r ou miss a rehearsal you must bark elsewhere.
More callers on George and Mary ! Mrs. Robert Ryniill,
her babes and Miss Riddoch, were wafted away by the
Orsova on Friday ; also the widow of late Sheriff Boothby
and the youngest Clement Sabine daughter. Likewise
Dr. Violet and Nellie Plummer. The last will meet their
medico brother Reg at Marseilles, and fly over France
with him for a fortnight before he returns to the ’Roo-
land as ship’s doctor in the Geelong.
The Frank Fishers and their family, of Mount Lofty,
are also Britain bound. They will intercept the India at
Melbourne.
“ The Players ” mean to repeat “ Charley’s Aunt ” early
in May, together with several other hilarious dramas. For
the winter months they have more solemn and serious
work in view. Talking of mumming, reminds me that
Hymen did a little hard labor for two local amateurs on
Saturday. The victims were young Davidson, son of a
cleric, and Miss Lucy Tucker, both frequent performers
in “Appendreena” shows.
There have been other knottings. On March 4 pretty
Marjory Henderson, concealed in a garment of shimmerv
white and old lace and a dream of a hat, became Mrs.
Lisle Johnson. The event occurred at St. John’s.
Dr. J. O. Verco and Miss Mary Mills are to be married
on April 13.
Sincerely yours,
JOHAÑA.
A Spanish steamer nosed into Port Jack-
son last week with several thousand tons of steel
rails for the Ma State Government. One evening
paper proudly said that the Spaniard had enough
rails on board to lay 300 odd miles of track ; the
other sunset sheet said it had enough to lay 75
miles. The track statistics, however, don’t
matter much. The humiliating fact that matters
a lot is that a foreign ship has just reached this
iron-bearing country with an immense load of
heavy steel goods which Australia ought to be
making for itself, and certainly would be making
for itself if the Australian railways had been
under one control instead of under six. In this
case, as in many others, State flights mean
National Wrongs—the employment of foreigners
instead of Australians.
“ Bookware ” : Dilke got, of course, an
ample send-off from the London press. The
point is stressed that he invariably maintained
his innocence with regard to Mrs. Crawford ; and
his intimate friend Chamberlain appears to have
never wavered in belief of his innocence. More
conspicuous was the behavior of widow Patti-
son. Dilke had proposed to her before the Craw-
ford scandal. She hung up the proposal, and
went to India. No sooner did the Crawford
affair burst forth than she wired to Dilke her
acceptance—as a proof of her firm belief in his
innocence, so ’twas put. Still there may have
been a lurking devilry in this ; for a woman may
not find out how much she loves a man till
another woman turns up. But for this smash,
what might he not have done? The newspapers
are unanimous that he would have been Premier
of England. Where would a Bannerman or an
Asquith have been beside a Dilke, so able and
with so unrivalled a knowledge of foreign affairs :


%
9
i
/
* Kk
*v
AW
93
•VS*
Site
rmw!
v:
■m.
ft*fV
V?e
SS
Ss
'
1
DEWARS
The Spirit Splendid’
In selecting a stimulant, insist, above
all things, on PURITY.
Demand, after that, those other qualities
which whisky excellence implies.
Or, with less of trouble and more of
safety, specify DEWAR’S.
Not for nothing have connoisseurs
marked preference for this famous
brand—not for nothing has a dis-
criminating public for sixty years
indicated its approval. To-day,
among stimulants, Dewar’s
Whisky stands pre-eminent


SLENDER BEAUTY.
The beauty of a slender form is the desire of
every woman. If you are too stout there is a
simple home remedy which you can procure at
any chemist’s at a moderate cost'. It will rapidly
and harmlessly reduce your weight, purify the
blood, improve the complexion and prevent-the
formation of wrinkles. Get one half-ounce of
Marmola, one ounce of fluid extract of Glycyrrhiza
B.P., one ounce of pure Glycerine B.P., and
Peppermint Water to make six ounces. Mix these
together (at home if you wish), and take two
teaspoonfuls after meals.
In order to meet a constantly repeated demand,
the above prescription has been condensed in the
form of a compact and perfect tablet knoivn as
Marmola Prescription TabUts, and those readers
who prefer them to the liquid form can obtain same
of any chemist, h 3s. 6d. per box, or post free from
The Marmola Co., 7 Barrack Street, Sydney,
M.S.W.*
ĝh
Ilk Wireless.” We have it on
* jrood authority that both
“Our Miss Gibbs” and “The
Belle of Brittany” have been
using- Cherry Blossom Boot
Polish last “Seven Days.”
They declare it unequalled, giv-
ing a brilliant shine, and it doubles
the wear of boots and shoes.
Cherry Blossom conies;in Black
and Tan at 3d. and 6d. per tin—
the largest on the market at the
price. Write us if you have difficulty in securing supplies.
Managing Agents for Australia:
SWIFT & COMPANY, 32 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
PTANCOO
liill f: ,13
We are born to
'>f=. c CR BENEFITS
HE INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
Head Office-
-263 George St., Sydney.
Complete Cover will be
granted promptly against
your liabilitjviinder
The Workmen’s Compen-
sation Act, 1910.
I'"'"
WRITE AT ONCE.
H. H. Stockfeld \
H. S. Doherty /
Joint
Managers.
SUFFERED AFTER
EVERVMEAL.
«
Life was a Burden With
Severe Indigestion*
♦
Health Completely Wrecked—
Pale, Thin and Miserable—
Cured by Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills.
Mrs. James Moody, of 31 Arundel Street,
Fremantle, W.A., found her health completely
wrecked by indigestion. Do what she would, she
didn’t get any relief until she tried Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills, and these completely cured her. The
use of this tonic in indigestion is of value because
the stomach is strengthened to a point that enables
it to do its work with ease.
“ On and off indigestion used to trouble me very
much, and at last a really bad attack came on,”
Mrs. Moody told a reporter. “It didn’t matter
what I ate or how little, the moment the food was
down I would get a dreadful burning pain at the
end of the breast bone, and the ache between my
shoulder blades was dreadful. Everything was a
burden. I didn’t want to wash or sew or do any-
thing, but just lie about whenever I could. I was
quite worn out and exhausted. I hated to hear a
dinner plate rattle against another, find the smell
of cooking made me feel sick. I hated tobein the
kitchen. The food I did take always;repeated on
me. I had wind round the heart so bad that I
had to loosen all mv clothes. If I hurried for a
tram my heart would beat furiously ; I would have
to stop and rest for a few minutes. The heart attacks
alarmed me very much. All my color left me, my
face grew thin and sallow and pasty. 1 fell away
in flesh. I never could get a good night’s rest,
and I would wake in the mornings so tired that I
could hardly get out of bed. My back ached all
over, and when I stooped the pain got worse. My
ears and head had such ringing land, buzzing
sounds, they used to make me feel quite dazed.
At last I decided to give Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills
a trial, as they had proved of great benefit to my
little girl. The first box didn’t seem to make
much difference, but in a little while after improve-
ment set in. My appetite began to picif up, and
I found that I could sit down to a meal and not
feel any pain after eating. All the pains and
aches left by degrees, and I have been free from
indigestion ever since. As to my little girl, they
saved her life. 1 ”
The price is 2s. 9d. per box, six boxes 15s. 3d. ;
and if you have trouble in getting them, send a
postal note for the amount to the Dr. Williams’
Medicine Co., of Australasia, Ltd., Sydney, and
they will be sent, post free, by return mail.* iJ
rnuirrn mminn mu ii ■m ini nm ,;t>
Low price is no
consirlerati o n
[ about a Truss.
Exact fit, full j
support, per-1
feet comfort
are vital.
C li e a p e r
Trusses there
are, but our
Special Elas-
tic Truss com-
ocnyer
Single 17/6;
Double 22/6
Call or Write.
bines these necessities. DENYER BROS.,
Makers of Trusses and Abdominal Belts,
281 GEORGE ST. (opp. Hunter St.), SYDNEY ; and
at Melbourne cr Snansron & Lonsdale Sts.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The wheels have turned quickly these
latter days. The first response to an appeal for
funds issued by the Sydney Labor Council on
behalf of the implement makers on strike in Vic-
toria Came from the Writers and Artists’ Union,
which levied itself one shilling per member. Ten
years ago a trades-hall union of writers was only
a dream. To day there not only is a union, but
evidently it is the most eager of unions.
Bullfinch railway construction in Westralia
wiped out the myth of the Government stroke.
Started on December 20, the survey was finished
on January 7; platelaying began on January 9 and
was finished on February 4, the whole construc-
tion being completed by the W.A. Public Works
Department in a week under two months. And
the actual cost was, as usual, under the Govern-
ment estimate—and with no Private Enterprise
“ extras ”to arbitrate about at great cost. The
construction engineer was W. Irvine, a young
Australian, who had charge of this and another
line, and he took them through simultaneously.
The Presbytery of Melbourne North,
“having heard with deep Concern that several
lady telephone attendants have been suspended
from duty for adhering to conscience in the
matter of Sunday work,” has publicly expressed
its regret at the action taken by the Labor P.M.G.
“Persecution for religion” was mentioned in
heated accents, and almost audible murmurs of
“burned at the stake,” “martyrs,” “hounded
down” and “ thrown to the lions ” went palpitat-
ing around the room. But why was the Labor-
administered Postal Department singled out for
attack ? Why not the Murray-governed Victorian
Railway Department, or the Private Enterprise-
governed Melbourne trams, neither of which runs
a conscience-clause of any description whatever?
Under Labor’s administration, the Postal Depart-
ment allows its telegirls to take a hpliday on the
Sabbath so long as they provide a substitute—
which is a good deal more than the break-the-
Sabbath-or-go attitude of the private trams and
State railways will do for their employees. The
haste of some reformers to defend the Cause
against Labor, while allowing others to welt the
Cause in the eye without any defence whatever,
looks suspicious.
Lurid cross-headings printed in Melbourne
Age on March 9 :
At the Trades Hall.
Railway Unionist's Threat.
Any Action Except Bomb-Throwing.
These wild whirls were presented as plain state-
ments of fact, and the average autocrat of the
breakfast table read.them aloud to his family in a
warning voice. If “any action except bomb-
throwing ” was threatened by the Trades Hall in
defence of Unionism, what was Society, what was
the Community, what was Law’n’order to expect
if a Referendum “Yes’’placed Absolute Power
in the hands of a Commonwealth Labor Govern-
ment? It was Awful! Appalling! Yet what
the Railway Unionist had actually said was:
“ There was no need for them to throw bombs.
They could win the fight by straight-out, ordinary
methods, and those methods would, he felt sure,
be employed.” It must be a magnificent cause
which has to call in that sort of weapon to score
a win.
GETTING ITS BACK UP.
TOURIST: “Say, old chap, is yonder hill of any
historical note !”
FARMER: “ That ain't no hill; that's only a bit
of my land with its back up over the bloom-
ing land tax .”
Frank Henty, maker of many good verses,
is the selected Labor candidate for Prahran at the
next Vic. State elections.
Australia can grow fruit to send abroad ;
but, according to a deputation which waited on
Tudor, of the Customs, recently, it can.
not cut the paper to wrap it in. The
deputation, which was composed of fruit-
growers and exporters, complained of the
duty on wrapping paper, whereupon
Tudor pointed out that sheets over 20in.
x 30in. were admitted duty free; it
having been considered that the work
of cutting the paper might be done
locally. Apparently without a blush,
the deputation replied that there was
“difficulty in getting the paper cut in
Australia.” Heaven only knows why
enlightened legislators should think it
desirable to encourage the cutting of
wrapping paper by a duty on small paper,
and not encourage some paper manu-
facturers to manufacture the paper itself
by giving him protection. If Australia
can’t make wrapping paper for itself,
it ought to go out of the much more intri-
cate business of making legislation and
import the article duty free.
The remarkable strides that Union-
ism has made during the last few years
is illustrated by the demand for office
space at the Sydney Trades Hall. A new
wing was opened a little more than a year
ago and was immediately filled. Now,
although the trustees have turned every
available cupboard into an office, stiil
another wing is to be built, and is certain
to be filled directly it is ready. No less
than 30 new unions were born last year
—many of them consisting of clerks, jour-
nalists and other people whom a few years ago it
was considered impossible to organise.
There are times when S. Aus. isn’t too
slow. The question of building a railway south
into the Willunga hills, where the slate comes
from, has been hung up, because Government in-
sisted'that it should be a guaranteed line. A two-
thirds majority was required to authorise the
State to go ahead. The required “Yes” vote was
just missed ; but then it was discovered that a
ballot wasn’t taken in an out-of-the-way place
which was entitled to be heard. So a special poll-
ing day was fixed ; and before it arrived, the
people who had just missed getting the required
percentage secured seme land, cut it up into
slices, transferred the slices to “safe ” men, and
on the special polling-day scored 113 votes, every
one of them for the line. Naturally, S. Aus-
tralia’s Wowser Premier says he smells bad fish,
and Costs scent the battle from afar.
No Household
Should ever be without a bottle of Dr. Sheldon’s
Magnetic Liniment; a reliable remedy for cuts,
bruises, aches, pains, rheumatism and lumbago'
Price Is. (id. and 3s.*
One commercial virtue of the typewriter is set
fortli in a letter issued at large by Stott and Hoare (Mel-
bourne).. Nothing scores-like a direct, personal appeal to
the likely buyer or client. The printed circular can’t
make that appeal; and even the imitation type-written
letter has lost its power. The typewriter people nowa-
days offer the direct,‘-personal *sfpft>arr“ We write 'the
letters supply the printed headings, multigraph the body
of the letter, fill in the name and address to match ’’—and
there you are. The job printer is evidently up against a
tough competitor.
Horan, an alleged Labor M.L.A., advises
Westralian electors to vote against the Aus-
tralian Labor Government’s referendum proposals.
“ I suppose I shall be courtmartialled,” says
Horan; “but I have broad shoulders.” The
trouble isn’t Horan’s broad shoulders, but his
thick head. He is evidently terrified lest the
Westralian workingman should get cheaper food
through the Commonwealth being given power to
take a fall out of some of the Trusts and Combines.
The S. M. Herald points out that the
strike of agricultural implement workers in Vic-
toria is playing the mischief with wheat-growers
in the Ma State. Owing to the difficulty in get-
ting ploughs, seed drills, etc., the area under
wheat will not be as great as things promised. It
is a pretty serious business for the cocky ; yet the
Herald can’t see any reason why the Common-
wealth Parliament should take industrial matters
in hand. But the cocky will see it plainly enough
before April 26.
Recent typical remark made by Sir John
Fuller, who has been appointed to the unnecessary
billet of Vic. State Excellency :
Some men in England are afraid of the Labor party;
but my experience as Whip tells me that the Labor man
in Parliament is very different from the Labor man our.
of Parliament.. It is a good thing that Labor should
undertake the responsibilities of government.
Perhaps it is as much as can reasonably be ex-
pected of an English country landowner. All the
same, it would be a blessed relief if someday
somebody, for a change, would say that the Con-
servative member is very different from the Con-
servative candidate—he is always more obstructive
than he promised to be when he was beaming on
the electors.
Of the single farm laborers who reached
Victoria among the Rangatira’s 530 “settlers,”
all found situations in a few days, and the demand
was still unsatisfied. But there was no such
eager quest for the very people whom Australia
most wants—the young, married men with small,
growing families. Had Premier Weary kept to
his original intention of appointing a Board t'o fix
a minimum wage for milkers and other farm-
laborers, it wouldn’t have mattered to the farmer
whether his employee was single or not; but, as
Weary had to deal with a House of Propputty,
the provision was thrown overboard. Which is
one more reason why industrial matters should be
passed over to a Legislature that hasn’t got a
House of Propputty.
One day last week there was a fire at
Hornsby (N.S. W.), and various buildings were
destroyed. Down the line there was a fire brigade
at Chatswood ; but the Chatswood brigade said
that Hornsby wasn’t Chatswood, and it was a
Chatswood brigade. So Hornsby burned. The
incident made the Sydney papers very angry ; it
was monstrous, they said, that Propputty should
go up in smoke just because the Chatswood
brigade tied itself down within its own borders.
And Fat said “ Hear, hear ” with enthusiasm.
The Bulletin also says “Hear, hear” with
enthusiasm, though it doesn’t know what the
morning papers mean by saying it. For they are
yelling “ Home Rule ” at the top of their voices,
and telling the people that if Queensland takes a
hand in suppressing a strike or lock-out or Trust
in N.S.W., Liberty will be as good as dead, and
N. S. Wales’ sacred Rights will be trampled to
bits. So the Chatswood brigade, in putting
the morning papers’ bogus Home Rule principles
into practice, ought to have had the Sydney
morning papers’ blessings instead of their curses.
On the other hand, this paper calls on every Fat
man and Right Thinking person who said that the
Chatswood brigade ought to be ffshamed of itself,
to vote “Yes—Yes” oh April 26, and thus save
himself from ordering just the same absurd thing
in a larger matter.
A GUARDIAN'S GRIEF.
To the State Frights push there is nothing absurd in
the idea of balancing three complete sets of violently
diverse wage laws and regulations on the pin-point where
three States meet. — Recent. BULLETIN.
“ Ho, you ungrateful young varmint! Ain't you
got no gratitude? Getting new clothes for
yourself, are you?—after your old nuss
spending weeks and weeks rankin' the nice
suit you've got on."
The French Ministry of Briand lias col-
lapsed. It is the French wav. When a Premier
is being eulogised as the one strong man who has
at last arrived for a long innings the great man
collapses and passes out.
Just about the time Admiral Fremantle
was telling a roomful of well-fed Londoners that
“Great Britain should emulate Australia and
Maoriland, and secure British seamen for British
ships, even at the cost of fewer ships and some
restraint of trade,” the damaged steamer Ban-
nockburn was staggering towards Dover. It had
been in a collision, and the mate had been
obliged to use his revolver on the panic-stricken
and mutinous Chow crew to keep them up to
the work of saving the ship. Some day it won’t
be the ship that will be in collision. It will be
the fool-nation which got into the habit of hiring
these cheap mercenaries to do its ship work. And
then the cheap mercenaries will say “ Whaffor,”
and, when the undermanned navy calls for help,
the white officers and a few odds and ends will be
all that will come to the rescue.
“ Liberalism ” lias to be content with
cold comfort nowadays. In connection with the
Enoggera (Q.) by-election, a writer in Brisbane
Coukikk remarked :
The great expenditure required to bring 1400 voters to
the poll to vote the Liberal ticket is, I know, out of all
proportion to that expended upon the 1300 Labor voters.
Then, Sir, Liberals rallied around Mr. Hawthorn to the
number of 1734 votes in 1000, and gave him a majority of
nearly 1000 over Mr. Tait. Last Saturday Mr. Trout, an
excellent and worthy candidate, polled nearly 400 votes
less than Mr. Hawthorn, and the Labor candidate more
than 500 votes more than in 1909. Where were these 400
Liberals on Saturday ?
Seeing that there were 400 less Liberal votes and
500 more Labor votes, the man who would ask
where the 400 Liberal votes went would also pro-
bably ask where the fish went if he saw a cat sit-
ting alongside the empty plate and licking scales
off its whiskers.
INTERFERENCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Under the general powers asked for the Commonwealth
will be able to interfere. ... If their legislation is in
conflict with that of a State, then the State must give
way.—S. M. Herald.
The safe-breaker picks at the strongroom lock
When he thinks that the coast is clear ;
But as he is working he hears a knock
Which gives him a sharp and horrible shock,
And he gasps to himself: “ They’re ’ere !
It’s the blankv D’s.,
An’ they’ve got th’ keys,
An’ they're goin’ to interfere ! ”
As (he water-and-milkman goes his rounds
A large motor-car ambles near;
Then he lashes his horse with fearful sounds ;
Away down the street his chariot bounds ;
But in vain is his mad career ;
For the Board of Health
Comes with speed and stealth
With his swindle to “ interfere.”
When a clerk has muddled along somehow
With a business for a year,
lie will mutter under his breath, “ Th’ cow !”
When a capable man says briskly, “ Now
We must straighten things up in here.”
He can’t understand
Why the helping hand
With his messes should “ interfere.”
When the big job baffles the bounded State,
When the problem is stark and sheer,
And the nation pounds on the grass-grown gate,
Then the little voices of Spite and Hate
All together squeak, “Notin here!
We’re not very strong,
And we may he wrong,
But we’re bl nved if you'll interfere ! ”
While the last wild rogue and the last weak fool
To the crust of the earth adhere,
Till the stars go out and the sun grows cool,
Wild asses will bray and their tear-drops pool;
But—the facts of the case are clear :
So the u’orld may roll
Eo'ry blessed soul
With his neighbor MUST interfere.
N.S.W.
E. FRANCIS.
THE PRESERVER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Speaking against the Referendum at Balmain Mr.
Garland concluded with the remark “ that he was a true
Federalist, and as such declined to cut down the Tree of
Federation.” (Cheers).— Daily paper (8/3/’ 11).
The anti-Referendum quack
Spoke out in accents free ;
He said : “ I ain’t the one to hack
The Federation Tree.
There’s some would cut and burn the butt—
A foolish notion ! Tut, tut, tut!
“For, brothers, in the Nation’s park
That Tree grows straight and tall;
And biting, stabbing on its bark
The thriving Insects crawl.
So why should we cut down the Tree
And spoil our States’-Rights Insectry?”
n.s.w.
BARSABAS BUZZ.


*
Wmm, s
If
1
'•
•• •
§
raWSv'i
:
•;, ;.y: .
m
I
BSB
fllliMlll
=*=
it*
I 'A :t •■•MI Si. <- , (• '
I JleiiilOffict' ’
1.. 'MuGcorgc. ;\freer Svdnvy '•
Sames Pianos
DIRECT FROM
FACTORY TO
PALING’S
SHOWROOMS'.
Absolutely tbe Greatest of all E-ng’ish Pianos.
Exquisite Models.
SOLD ON EASY TERMS
Perfect in Tone and Touch
CATALOGUES FREE
Old Pianos taken in Exchange and Full Value Allowed.
W. H. PALING & CO., Ltd..
338 Georg'e-street, Sydney.
NEWCASTLE. BRISBANE. TOOWOOMBA.
■v
T
V
>*
n
✓
PHONOGRAPHS
ADD harmony as well as pleasure to your Easter holidays by the
purchase of an Edison Phonograph. By the campfire, on the
breast of the stream, or at seaside or mountain, this superb
instrument will entertain and delight you.
The Edison Phonograph will reproduce anything from a coon
song to a Grand Opera selection. It will play as long as you like and
as often as you like, and is so clear, sweet and natural that you are
almost convinced that the world’s greatest artists are right on the spot
entertaining you.
Why not get an Edison Phonograph at once ? There is a dealer
near you. If you do not know his address write to us direct and we
will tell you, and also send complete lists of Machines and Records.
For Faster !
NATIONAL PHONOGRAPH CO. OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.
(Wholesale only), Dept. B, 364-372 Kent. Street, Sydney.
FARMER’S FULLY FURNISH
FIVE ROOMS FOR £135.
T
%
4
THIS pictures the Dining-Room in our scheme, and every article is
Farmer’s well-known reliable quality and sterling value, artistically designed
and faithfully made ; good through and through, with Farmer’s reputation
of three score years and ten behind it all.
We court the closest comparison and the keenest criticism, and will help you
with further expert, advice if necessary.
This scheme includes Dining Room, Drawing Room, Best Bedroom, Spare
Bedroom, Maid’s Room, with Hall and Kitchen.
We invite inspection of this scheme, which is specially arranged in our Furniture
Department to convey to those interested just how the Furniture will look in ‘
the Home.
A Full List of every article contained in this scheme wiltt be sent pcet free .
on request.
| Write for Tur**Big~!nustrated~Funiiture Catalogue7'sent*l>ost Free on request. |
FARMER & COMPANY
SYDNEY.
Limited


ROWLAND’S
KALYDOR
FOR * SKIN
Produces soft, fair, delicate skin, heals all
cutaneous eruptions, and insures a lovely
delicate complexion to all who use it.
2/3, 4/6, of Stores and Chemists.
Speechless with Wonder
Are the. friends of those relieved of indigestion,
and all stomach troubles, by Dr. Sheldon’s
Digestive Tabules. Price 2s. 6d. per tin.*
BILIOUS ATTACKS CURED.
Sufferers from bilious attacks should read this
remarkable letter from Mr. Donald Coutts, of
Condah, Vic. “ I have been a continuous sufferer
from headache and bilious vomiting attacks for 25
years. During that time I have been treated by
doctors, besides using all sorts of medicines that
proved useless. Being almost afraid I could never
be cured, I tried Chamberlain’s Tablets, and can
assure yen that they completely cured me, and I
feel like a new man. I can conscientiously re-
commend them to all who suffer from stomach
and liver troubles.”*
FOUL BREATH.
The old saying that “Distance lends enchant-
ment” was never more aptly to the point than
when applied to those people whose breath is
laden with evil-smelling and offensive odors.
Many persons appear most attracti ve at a distance,
ir?
oR5 t
ro°‘
hut produce a
feeling of pity
and disgust when
close to, because
of the condition
of their breath.
For instance, it
makes little dif-
ference how
beautiful a
woman may be,
or how charming
her manner, if
herbreathisfoul;
her charm is gone
and she is at
a disadvantage
whenever she
comes in contact
with other
people. Foul
breath in woman
arouses in man a feeling of repugnance and a
desire to get out of the company of such a woman
as quickly as possible ; and even women will avoid
her. It is, therefore, important for every woman
who values her personal attraction to take such care
of herself thatthis unpleasant arid unnecessary com-
plaint is a voided or corrected. Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills will be found a searching and cleansing
remedy, which will overcome this complaint. They
give you clean bowels, a healthy stomach, a lively
liver, and blood that is rich and red. They are a
safe, sure and reliable remedy, and will prevent
many of the complaints so common if taken once
or twice a week to keep the system in a healthy
condition. They are purely vegetable, and their
action is not accompanied by any nauseous or
griping sensation, but is mild and gentle. For all
complaints arising from imperfect digestion and
> impure blood Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are
unexcelled.* '
4
<£>
1910 MODEL
WITH
SYR U PING
RACK
Banker
AERATED WATER
Machine
Works like a clock.
MAKES AERATED WATERS
AT 3d, DOZEN.
Sold (n Terms.
NELSON CAr.BONATINC CO. LTD.
107 George St., Sydney
Professions, Etc.
To Farmers, Agriculturists, etc.
AMERICAN, college man, with Australian
experience, having thorough knowledge of
agriculture, both scientific and practical, in all
its branches, fully conversant with all farm
machinery, skilled in irrigation and dry farming,
desires management of large wheat farm, or other
agricultural proposition, on salary or small salary
and percentage basis. Apply
“YANKEE,” c/o Akgus, Melbourne.
/MINE MANAGER. —Wanted competent Man, to take
1 * charge. Hands at present employed, 60 to 70. Appli-
cant must have a good knowledge of concentrating silver-
lead ores. Good residence adjoining mine. Applications
must be accompanied by copies only of testimonials.
Mine Manager, Box 1499, G.P.0., Sydney.
’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents—RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH. KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Brewert and Offices :
Dowling Street, REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Papke’s victory over Smith at Sydney Stadium
on Saturday is much more of a testimonial to his busi-
ness acumen than to his prowess as a boxer, and the
sweetness must have been much marred for the Yankee.
But he won; that is, he got a decision in the seventh
round on a knock-out, and thereby saved that precious
reputation of his, out of which a few more dollars may be
made in Yankeeland. The trick that Papke put up on
Smith was excellent business, but it certainly bears out the
ancient proverb that the Yankee is no sport. Papke
had to remove the ugly effect created by the
walloping he had received from Smith when
the Australian boxer chased him round the ring a
few weeks ago. It was necessary for business reasons.
So he agreed to fight Smith at list. 111 b., and if either
could not make the weight he was to forfeit £lOO. Smith
trained down to the weight, and then he is said to have
struck a bad oyster which brought him down to list.
7£lb. A bad oyster seems to be an ideal weight-reducer.
Writer, however, places no reliance on that ancient fish
story, for it is almost certain that no man who had suf-
fered from ptomaines could have put up the vicious scrap
Smith did for six rounds. Papke did not train
down to the weight. Whether he could have done so
writer does not know ; but he did not look as though he
had resorted to, say, bad oysters togetdown to the pound-
age. So when the weights were announced no one was
surprised, after looking at the two men, to hear that
Pipke was “overweight.” How much was not stated.
Folks who watched the weighing said he had kicked
the beam at 13st. 31b. Others declared that those figures
were touched owing to the fact that Papke merely
bounded on to the weighing machine and off again, and
that at least 61b. or 71b. must be taken off for the jump.
But, anyhow, if appearances go for anything, Smith went
into the ring against a man at least Ist. heavier than
himself. Of course, Papke forfeited his £lOO. It paid
him to. The restoration of his damaged reputation was
worth five times that amount. What Smith wants to
study is the business side of boxing.
However, in spite of all these drawbacks, the
scrap was interesting, and the clumsiness of Papke in the
opening rounds caused one to wonder how, in the name
of the Screaming Eagle, he was ever dubbed the “ Illinois
Thunderbolt.” Grampus would have been, infinitely
better-fitting. He struck the whirlwind in the first
round, and after receiving five wallops on the nose, he
showed a disposition to hang on. While doing so, he man-
aged to land Smith a few ineffectual ones on the ribs and
one on the nose. The second round saw Papke indulging
in wild swipes, such as an untrained blacksmith’s striker
would be expected to hand out. None of them got
home, but Papke stopped a few more with his olfactory
gear, which began to be somewhat damaged, as he took
to breathing through his mouth. In the third, Referee
Baker had a busy time unloosening the holds. Smith cut
loose in magnificent style, and pasted Papke just how
and when he liked bill the Thunderbolt backed away.
Twice he landed Smith, once on the head and once on the
shoulder, and then commenced swiping again. In the
fourth, Smith got all over him, and bashed him repeatedly
with right and left. It looked for a moment as though
Papke was going out, but the gong cut the proceedings
short. Papke looked very tired in his corner and ex-
pectorated blood freely. The fifth was a wild rally from
end to end, Papke straining every nerve for a knock-out,
but being checked with straight lefts, though he caught
Smith one damaging clout on the jaw. In the sixth,
Papke was despondent. Smith went in like a dancing
sunbeam and lighted twice on the nose, twice on the eye
and once on the ear. the mouth and the chin. Papke
rocked, and then Smith went mad. Instead of standing
off and bashing the fading Yankee, he went into
clinches with him, and got a couple on the nose
that shook him badly. When they came up for the
““venth he was still feeling the effect of those two ; and,
though he drove a couple which hurt to Papke’s head,
the Yankee got in in a bad clinch, and, seeing Smith’s
point uncovered, drove his right up like a piston rod.
D >wn went Smith ; but at eight he was up, and met
P.tpke’s ferocious rush with splendid footwork. Then he
stopped another high up on the jaw, and went down
again. As he sprang up Papke got him. Taking him
into a nice fatherly clinch, Papke swung a fearful right
helly rip that sent Smith writhing. It was an awful
blow, and Smith was a long while getting over it.
• •••••
It was bad generalship that lost Smith the
fight. His game was to have kept away from the Yankee,
who was tiring fast; and he had shown that he could
keep away when he desired to do so. Had he stood off
for 10 rounds and boxed the Yankee, as he could easily
have done, he would have had that floundering but hard-
hitting grampus dead, dog tired. And then he could
have sailed in and chopped him to pieces. Of course, it
may have been that Smith didn’t feel that he could last
sufficiently long to play that game. What the average
ringsider thought writer doesn’t know; but what im-
pressed him most was the idea that, if the Yankee gentle-
man was ever a middleweight champion, what a poor lot
of middleweights thev must, have had in the States.
# ** * *
An interesting scrap was staged by Melbourne
Athletic Club the other night, when Hock Keys and Kid
M‘Coy came together again. Keys was long reckoned
Australia’s best in the “ smalls ” since Griffo. Lately he
has been keeping the Commandments, and he went in fit
and well. Young M’Coy made it a hard fight for him
from gong to finish—toughest at the finish. In the 7th,
Hock looked as if he were up against a ruthless doing,
but the Sydney-sider has two lives in a fight, and can
always be counted on coming again. He came again,
with one bright eye and one like a fine sample of passion-
fruit, and dug his beautiful left into Kid’s features till
Kid and the fight both put on a totally different aspect.
Still, M’Coy fought like a machine at the finish, and the
referee’s verdict “ Keys ! ’’ may have been right or may
not. M’Coy is certainly going to appropriate a pedestal
presently.
# * * *
Hats off to the Springboks, and their health in
a three times three ! Plucky opponents who never got
their tails down, sterling fellows who played the game in
the face of disaster and took their defeats like gentlemen !
Good fellows, too ; not a breath against them from one
end of Australia to the other. May they live long and
have many sons like unto themselves ! They started their
homeward journey- from Sydney full of jov over the
trip. Presentations poured in on them in the Harbor
City, and 2000 sincere admirers turned up to give them a
farewell cheer. At Melbourne there were more presenta-
tions and more cheers as Captain Sherwell and his team
of good sports and fine gentlemen hied away- to Adelaide.
And, best of all, there are some among them, including
the mighty Faulkner, who threaten to return and settle
in the land of Kangaroo. They are the sort of men
we want, and want badly.
Arrived at Adelaide, the Springboks made
mincemeat of the Crow-eaters. The Wheatfielders’ totals
were 240 (Crawford 57, Hill 54) and 100 (Crawford 40 n. 0.).
The Springboks made 292 and four wickets for 51, an easy
success, with six wickets to spare. Their remaining fix-
ture is the picnic at Broken Hill. The result of the tour
works out at 21 matches played, 11 won, seven lost and
drawn three. And as the treasurer announces that the
gate receipts put everything right so far as the guarantee
is concerned, everything in the garden is delightful.
* * * *
Although of the five Test Matches Australia
won four, it cannot be denied that the Springboks had
much the worse end of the bat as regards weather.
Curiously enough, in the only match where the conditions
were equal (the third Test at Adelaide), Australia was
rubbed out by 38 runs. The African eaptain also won
three of the five tosses, but was generous enough to send
the Kangaroos in on a damp wicket on two of those
occasions.
In five matches Australia surrendered 83
wickets for 3475 runs —an average of 41’86. South Africa
realised 2779 runs for 100 wickets—an average of 27 '79,
which makes an average of 14'07 for the last wicket in
every innings. Each side had a champion, as Trumper’s
effort in nine innings brought 661 runs at an average of
94'42 ; the highest score was 214 not out. Springbok
Faulkner amassed 732 in 10 innings—average 73 - 20.
* * * *
Christchurch (M.L.) is elated over a cricket
record. A player, going in first, remained in for an hour
without scoring a run. Whether this is a record or not
this writer is unable to say—the record books shed
nothing but gloom on the question. But, anyhow, if it
isn’t a record it ought to be.
# * # *
Grade cricket in Sydney on Saturday was like
a homely tea after a week of banquets and jags. The
conclusion of the round saw Gordon deposed from its seat
at the head of the competition by Redfern, the suburb
that keeps the Syrians. The score was 12 competition
points, and Gordon was second with 10. Then University
waddles along with seven, Petersham and Burwood with
four each, and Paddington and Balmain with two each.
Central Cumberland, Glebe, North Sydney, Waver-
ley and Middle Harbor range from one to 14 below
nothing. Looks as though some of these cricket
clubs require to be amalgamated. A club that after eight
matches is 14 points below zero requires burying quickly.
Perhaps the most amazing circumstance is the slump of
Glebe, which is two below zero. Waverley has been
going to the dogs steadily for a long while, and seems to
have definitely arrived there. But why pursue these
painful reflections? The winners on the day were
mostly victorious by the narrowest of margins.
Redfern beat Paddington by 14 runs (f.i.), Peter-
sham beat Gordon by five runs (f.i.), and Balmain
downed University by three runs (f.i.). Burwood smashed
up Glebe by two wickets and 92 runs, Sydney downed
Waverley by 119 on the first innings, and North Sydney
got all over Middle Harbor with 199 to spare. The only
century of the day was the 154 Thomas put up for Waver-
ley ; he included seven sixers and 15 fourers in the lot.
But it didn’t save Waverley, against which Sydney,
above all teams, had piled up 421 for eight wickets.
Among the bowlers, Folkard distinguished himself with
six wickets for 30 runs, Stack with four for 29, and Hop-
kins with five for 42. Altogether it was a dull day.
* * * *
At the N.S.W. State Championship Carnival
Longworth again met Cecil Healy, this time in the
220 yards, and made mincemeat of him. Healy got away
well, and showed a slight lead, but Longworth hurled
himself through the water and ranged alongside. The
strength with which he swam was delightful to see,
and it was soon apparent that he held Healy in
the hollow of his hand. He won by about three
yards, but there is not much doubt that he
could have beaten him by three times the distance. All
the same, he did not shake the world, and finished a
second over Australian record time, which stands to the
credit of the late Kieran and “Bogey” Beaurepaire at
2min. 28 2-ssec. Longworth is evidently a coming star.
It is only two years since he first took to the water ; and,
although only 18, he kicks the beam at list. 71b. His
strength is tremendous ; his neck is about the strongest
seen round the parts he frequents, and his heart seems
to have been cast in the same mould.
Mr. Papke showing Mr. Smith where his solar-
plexus is, last Saturday night, at the Stadium.
No less than 41 scullers have entered for the
Parramatta Hundred, which begins next Saturday on the
Parramatta River. Four heats will be run off the first
day, and the final will see 12 starters. There is something
like a riot over the handicaps, in connection with which
Dick Arnst delivered himself of the most illogical speech
ever made: “ I’m terfibly disappointed. I don’t know'
whether the haridicappers think I’m a machine. Anyhow-,
I still think I can win ; but we’ll see on Saturday.” If he
still thinks he can win, what in thunder is the young man
spruiking about ?
Some of the handicaps certainly do look startling on
paper. But with such a field they are bound to. Dick
is the only scratch man in the show. His limit man,
Tom Carter, gets away 80 seconds before the champion
leaves. Probably, the champion’s greatest danger comes
from his fellow-countryman, Tom Lawson, a hefty youth
who has 60 seconds.' Jack Arnst is in the second heat,
and will find himself opposed to Harry Pearce, who has
to concede him 18 seconds. Three steamers will follow
the race, so those who desire to follow- the tussle all
through will be well provided with accommodation. It
is going to be a great sight, and the old Parramatta will
look quite young again.
The rumpus in Victorian Oofball still con-
tinues; but so far the disturbance resembles the capers
of the players before the umpire transpires—everybody
kicks the ball about without aim or method. Of the
League clubs,’Wood and South are satisfied with things
as they are ; Carlton, Richmond and’Roy are dissatisfied ;
Melbourne, Essendon and Saints aren’t quite sure
what they w-ant; and the others are “layin’ low- an’
say-in’ nuffin’.” The Ass. clubs are similarly mixed up ;
only North and P’ran, which candidly admit having
bought their players last year, have declared forstraight-
out professionalism. Meantime both bodies have
drawn up their lists of fixtures for the coming
season; while the “reformers” have invited the
20 clubs to send delegates to a meeting to form
a new machine for control. As soon as it learned
this, the Ass. invited the League to confer with a view to
amalgamation, and the latter is at present pondering If
the League and Ass. delegates will commune in a spirit of
sweet reasonableness, and fix up a scheme of district foot-
ball with a fixed scale of allowable expenses to players—
as at cricket—and will undertake to have all balance-
sheets independently audited, then the disaster that
threatens may be staved off ; also the reformers’ new
machine will be mud.
* * * *
Canker, the worm, dry rot and white ants all
appear to come together in that branch of football
which plavj,s under the wing of the N.S.W. Metropolitan
Rugby Union. Last week secretary Wood made a clean
breast of the whole beastly business when he gave the
clubs to understand that, for the coming season, it would
be worse than useless to expect the Union to supply
trainers, guernseys and insurance for players as afore-
time. The flabbergasted clubs are now “considering the
position,” and at present it looks as though there will be
a general stampede to the prosperous, fat-stomached
League. The danger is that the League may be choked
by the rush of applications.
THE GOOGLIED BATSMAN.
The Sydney Soccer Football people have wisely
decided to reduce the number of clubs. The game was
getting spread out too thin, with the result that the
quality of the play suffered. So this season there will be
only eight teams in the Rawson Oup instead of 13. The
idea is good, and should uplift the game.
* -V * , *
The “Prince Henry tour” is to be the chief
automobile event of the year. This is a friendly match
between 50 British cars and a like number of German
make, to mark the coronation of King George V. The
cars must be the absolute property of the contestants, so
that all trade influences shall be cut out. Fifty observers
will be chosen by the Automobile Club of England, and
another 50 by the Imperial Automobile Club of Germany.
The Britons will act as overseers on the German cars,
and the Teutons will overlook the British cars. The
team losing the least number of points will be the
winner. The contest will be spread over II days—
three spent on German territory and the rest in England
and Scotland. The total distance to be covered will be
between 1500 and 1600 miles. The crowd that distrusts
Germans in any shape or form has fastened on to the
fact that the bulk of the time will be spent on British
soil with avidity. The fact that the overseers are to be
chosen from the officers of the two armies gave the idea
some faint coloring at first glance. Still there is nothing
to prevent a thousand German officers motoring all over
England at any time, and without making any fuss, if
Will wants them to.
Aviation is going to boom in Australia shortly.
In fact, it is the coming game. The potentialities of the
aeroplane for defence have hit the imaginative minds of
Australians where they live, and, thank Heaven, all the
fat men of the Commonwealth are not unpatriotic;
there are more than a few of them inquiring, “ What
shall it profit us if we beat the Labor Party right out of
Australia and lose our country to the Jap or the
German?” So the big Dunlop Rubber Ob., which has
always been a good Australian, comes forward with asug-
gestion that something should be done to .foster aero-
planingin this continent. The Dunlop Co.’s suggestion is
“ that a substantial sum be collected from wealthy com-
panies and citizens, backed up by financial support from
the Commonwealth Government, the whole to be offered
as a prize to the first aviator who accomplishes an aero-
plane flight between Melbourne and Sydney or vice versa,
the route to he divided into a number of sections, the
course to be the inter-State railway line, and the route
to be negotiated within a stipulated number of days
from the time of starting.” The co.’s idea is that
“ such a flight would do much towards demonstrating
what the future holds in this direction, and would be the
means of bringing home to those in authority the need
of taking steps to ensure that the Commonwealth
is up to date in aSrial matters. Australia cannot
afford to lag behind; and the same applies to its
citizens.” The co. offers, for its part, “ £2OO towards
a prize, and will further provide a motor-car to
follow with petrol, spares, etc., the first aviator who
makes the attempt.” The proposal was mentioned to a
member of the Federal Cabinet, who stated that the
Government is ready to support any proposition that will
further aviation in this country. J. J. Hammond, the
aviator who has been giving demonstrations around Mel-
bourne, is willing tb attempt the Melbourne-Sydney
flight should a big prize be offered. .He also considers it
probable that several Continental aviators would com-
pete.
The 56th anniversary of the founding of the
V.R.C. was celebrated by a further postponement of the
Australian Cup programme at Flemington, the course
being under water. It seems that, of the 19 men who met
at Scott’s Hotel, Melbourne, on March 9, 1864, to form a
new club in place of two previous racing clubs which
had held meetings at Flemington, there are still five sur-
vivors. Herbert and Bob Power and their old trainer,
Jimmy Wilson, sen., are three of Client. W. Leonard, a
member of the present V.R.C. committee, is another ;
and John Cleeland is the fifth of the veterans. Thesenien
who are so much on the Turf are slow to go under it. If
19 adults met together to found a football club (say), it
would be mighty long odds against five of them living
another 57 years.
* * * *
The retirement of Leslie Macdonald from the
gee-gee game is hardly more surprising than the reason
he gives for selling bis racing establishment.' “Accusa-
tions or insinuations which no honorable man could
tolerate ” have appeared in “ certain newspapers there-
fore he can find no more pleasure in the sport, he says.
Mr. Macdonald should by this time be hardened against
mere insinuations ; and if those he is referring to were
levelled at the performance of Blairgour in the New-
market Handicap, he might very well have ignored them.
The racing public in general saw nothing to excite indig-
nation in the surprising failure of Blairgour last Saturday
week. The horse had probably passed the border-line
which divides absolute fitness from staleness, and the fact
that he had previously won two races when he was a red
hot favorite seemed to dispose of any cheap doubts of his
being a genuine goer for the third event in the “ treble."
Macdonald has a very good record as an owner of first
favorites. Wakeful carried the odds-on to victory in
many races, and in Revenue he owned the hoti e»t favorite
that ever won a Melbourne Cup.
* * * *
Four days behind its appointed time the Aus-
tralian Cup struggle happened at Flemington lasi
Saturday. The average quality of the field was only
so-so; yet, moderate as it was, the hurdle-racer Obi.
with a fair amount of money on its back, looked out cf
place in such company. Apparently, a number of the
runners had not been prepared for a2J miles journey,
which accounted for The Parisian being backed down to
7to 2—second favorite to Apple Pie at 9to 4. Bar this
pair, 10 to 1 was offered, and the result proved that the
books knew what they were about. The two favorites
had the finish to themselves, The Parisian winning
very easily. The stable had previously scored at the
meeting, with Queen o’ Scots in the Newmarket and
Battery in the Hurdle Race. Trainer Wheeler has
his horses in perfect racing trim just now, and condition
brings them home. Another stone on its back would
hardly have stopped The Parisian last Saturday ;so the
gelding ranks now as a pretty good one when fit, con-
sidering that the time equalled the best on record for the
race. The Parisian is said to be a difficult animal to
train.
The two last races of the day fell to N.S.W.
horses, but the victory of North Woodleigh in the two-
year-old event couldn’t have been a throw-in for Syd-
ney punters. The winner started at 20 to 1, anyhow, in a
field of 12. The Maltchester coup in the Bourke Hamletp
was a very different story. Maltchester had been talked
of for the Newmarket Handicap on the assumption that
W. H. McLachlan would ride the horse. But Mr. Wynne
claimed his services for Hartfell, and the question as to
which stable had first call on the crack jockey was re-
ferred to the V.R.O. committee. The decision was in
favor of Agar Wynne and Hartfell. Then Maltchester
dropped out of mention for the Newmarket, and, start-
ing at 33 to 1, the Sydney horse ran nowhere all the way.
In the Bourke -Handicap, however, he was heaviiy
backed down to 6 to 1, despite his bad performance in
the Newmarket. This time McLachlan had the mount,
and Maltchester led from start to finish. He had no
chance against the favorite, Broadsword, on paper. But.
races are not run on paper.


SHOE
&
The Name on the Strep
on the " Marshall ” Boot or Shoe
is an assurance that it embodies
every essential of a good Shoe,
including comfort without
" breaking-in.” The name "Mar-
shall” on our Shoe is a guarantee
of long service and lasting good
looks.
11A LF 6a QUA R TER SIZES
All GOOD Shoe Stores keep them in
Stock. If youis doesn't, 101 ite and we
•will send you address of the nearest
Dealer, with■ Catalog.
Marshall Shoe Co.,
Makers of Men’s Fine Shoes,
Richmond, Vic. 300
Fence 18 Chains a
Day with an “Iwan”
Post Hole Digger.
g
Mr. Farmer, you
can’t realise what
it means—having
an Iwan Post
Hole Digger on
a fencing job.
Think what it
means to have the
hole cut just the
size for the post
in a fraction of
the time taken
with a spade. No
time lost in ram-
ming. Empties
with a shake, and
has no adjustable
parts to get out
of order.
With a xo-inch
(the size gener-
ally used for
fencing) users find
that a good day’s
work is to sink
120 holes ; at the
same time, users
of 7-inch and 8-
inch dia. diggers
sink upwards of
200 holes in a
day. By extend-
ing the pipe
handle the
‘ ‘ I wan ” Digger
will bore to a
depth of 35 feet.
Dia.
3in„ 7/-
4in., 7/-
sin., 7/-
6in., 7/-
7in., 7/6
Dia.
Bin., 8/6
9in., 9/6
10in., 10/-
12in., 27/-
14in M 34/-
Write for our Catalogue.
It’s Poit Free.
Thos. McPherson 8 Son,
Established SO Years.
582-588 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
The “MOTA” (Regd.).
:•: • ;;. :
The “ Mota ” Hat is conceded everywhere to be
I,he standard in style, quality and workmanship.
It is easily the most comfortable of hats, and
equally suitable for town or country wear, for busi-
ness or holidays, for walking-, driving or riding, for
week days or Sundays, for wet days or fine days,
for warm weather or cold weather.
The “ Mota ” is the hat that suits every head and
every occasion. Stocked by leading houses through-
out Australia, in all fashionable colors. Prices,
7/6 to 12/6. If unobtainable in your district,
write us direct.
THE AUSTRAL HAT MILLS, LIMITED,
ABBOTSFORD, MELBOURNE.
GUARANTEED 2 YEARS.
20-30-h.p. Chalmers
£490
s=Seater
Touring Car.
40-h.p. THOMAS,
6-Cylinder 7-Seater.
ROY W. SAND FORD,
181 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Also at 105 EXHIBITION STREET, MELBOURNE.
.A
1911 Antarctic Expedition.
m?
&
To supply the powev for his -motor sledges,
with which he hopes to reach the South Pols
CAPTAIN R. F. SCOTT, R,N. (
CHOSE
“SHELL’’
MOTOR SPIRIT;
Why?
Because he took ft to the snows of Norway and actually
tried it on his snow sledges before he" would trust
himself to use it in the unknown Arctio Region*
Its perfect purity—
that’s the point ! t
“PotPourri”
stands
for
Quality
“POT POURRI” Cigarettes.— The
highest grade obtainable, at 6d. per
packet of 10; 4/6 per 100.
“POT POURRI ” Cigars. A fragrant
smoke— 3d. each ; 5 for 1/-; 18/6 per 100.
“POT POURRI” Tobacco— 4oz. tins,
2/- ; Boz. tins, 4/- ; 8/- per lb. There is
none better than this—it is the BEST.
“POT POURRI” Pipes, Silver-
mounted, superior quality, all shapes,
2/6 each.
If not procurable at your own Tobacconist’s, call
or write for catalogue to
A. A. MARKS,
Sole Agent, 376 George St,
Sydney, N.S.W.
” AWL-YOU-WANT."
THE GEM SEWING AWL.
EVERYBODY CAN USE IT.
Repairs Bags, Belts, Straps, Harness, Boots, Shoes ; Sews
2s ■ Posted.
(Awl. 2 needles,
x reel cotton.)
Carpets, Canvas, Blinds, Tarpaulins
etc., etc., with a LOCK-STITCH.
jh
Its immense value in repairs to Boots
and Shoes is now well known, and in
repairs to Bags, Belts, Straps, etc., it
lis the “ Awl-you-want.” Thread from the
reel (which may be kept in one’s pocket) is
___ supplied continuously—a great advantage,
apparent in sewing Carpets, Canvas, Blinds, Tarpaulins, etc:
Needles are interchangeable, extra ones can always be obtain*
ed. Stout or Fine, Bent or Straight.
PRICE—Gem Sewing Awl (polished wood handle, brass
fittings, brass bobbin, 2 steel needles—l bent, 1 straight—l reel
prepared cotton), 2s. complete, post free. Extras: Cotton,
5d., post free. Needles (stout or fine, straight or bent), 4d.,
post free; 2 for 7d., set of 8 for 2s. Send postal note to
Star NOVELTY CO.. 229 Collin* Street. Melbourne.
■Have Yoti Seen
Our New Catalogue ?
If you haven’t, you should certain!)/ send for a copyf'**-
It is absolutely the best Gent’s Shoe Catalogue ever published.
A postcard bearing your name’and address will bring you
a copy by return mail.
The Boot here illustrated is a Choice Russia Calf Derby Lace
Boot, Kid lined, close welt, fine stitch. A very fine
Boot. Also in Black, 23/6, 25/=, 27/6. With
or without punching on cap. Postage 9d. extra.
TheRIGNEYSHOECO.,
“The Exclusive Men’s High-Grade Shoe Stores,”
305 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, and
179 a PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Please note that the new shop in Pitt Street
is under the personal management of Mr. P. C.
Rigney, the sole and only proprietor of the
l above firm.
RIGNEY
Free Storage
for Your Wheat
We possess one of the finest Grain
Stores in the Commonwealth, and if
your wheat is sent to us before the
end of March, for sale, can allow you
four months’ free storage in Sydney,
if desired. Take advantage of this
offer, and be in a position to profit
by a rise in the market. Our selling
charge is 2 1 /i / commission only.
A. M. L. <a F. CO. LTD.
Blig'h St.. Sydney. N.S.W.
Wool, Produce and Grain Salesmen.
B. B. ALLEN, Wool and Produce Manager. JAMES KIDD, Manager.
Also at MELBOURNE and BRISBANE.
gj
The “TRIUMPH” is a Fine Racing Machine
On the 19th of February Mr. Wilkins, riding- a “ Triumph,” and Mr. J. Ryan,
riding a new machine of another make, had a race from Wellington, via Dripstone,
to Neurea and back—a distance of 25 miles.
Mr. Wilkins finished an easy winner, although, when near Dripstone, he had a
bad fall —due to running into a washaway in the road. One spoke was broken and a
wheel buckled as the result of this spill; but even these disadvantages could not
prevent the trusty “ Triumph ” from finishing first.
Suppose you call and see one. The price is but £67 10S!i Or write for a Catalogue.
Bennett & Barkell, Ltd,
Sole Agents for “ Triumph ” in N.S.W.,
234 Pitt Street and Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
£5
It
Always
Pays
To
Ride-
DUNLOP TYRES
are ridden by every cyclist who wants THE BEST. I
For Quality, Wear and Satisfaction they have no equal.
Beware of Imitations, and only accept Tyres that bear this
„ , m Trade Mark tW
DUNLOP RUBBER CO., Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, and Christchurch. N.Z
g
MOTORISTS
CAN LEAVE ALL
TYRE TROUBLES
4NJHE REAP::
.. BY "
/USING
-M
are used by all Motorists who want the besv
Their quality and construction ensures a big mileage, and more
satisfaction thajt you can get from any other tyre.
It will pay you to specify “Dunlops.”
* • a
DUNLOP RUBBER CO., Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Perth, Biitbane, Christchurch, N.Z.
Irish Home Rulers who are being invited
into the State Frights parlor on the Home Rule
pretence had better observe the brand on the
spider. Three times out of four it is L.O.L.
That fact alone ought to make the honest Irish
Home Ruler suspicious. The average Australian
doesn’t know too much about Home Rule for
Ireland ; but if John Meagher and similar Irish
Home Rulers, who are supposed to know all about
it—if they say that Irish Home Rule is the same
as State Frights, then they can’t be surprised if
the Australian says : “ Well, no Irish Home Rule
for me!” Which, of course, is just wliat the
L.O.L. wants him tp say. The honest Home
Ruler being tricked into playing the game of his
bitterest opponent isn’t a pleasant spectacle.
Britain has produced one first-class melo-
dramatic preacher (Dr. Jowett) since the days of
Spurgeon ; and now America has captured him.
The almighty dollar has purchased the Almighty
Word. Jowett goes from Carr’s Lane, Birming-
ham, to Fifth Avenue, New Yark, for a salary
much smaller than he was offered. Henceforth
his severest trial will be in resisting the full in-
crease of salary ; and if he doesn’t watch himself
carefully the temptation will be too strong. The
climate of Fifth Avenue is very enervating.


JEWELLERY SELECTIONS«A.SAUNDERS
DAINTIER—MORE EXCLUSIVE—AND CHEAPER THAN THOSE FOUND ELSEWHERE.
aaoO
A. SAUNDERS.
loot Gold BRACELET, set diamonds and rubies, or
Sapphires, £B/10/-
Di...nonds and Olivines, £lO.
All Diamonds, £l2/10.
A. SAUNDERS.
15et Gold Heart BROOCH, pure double
cut Diamonds and Rubies, or Sapphires,
£B/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold BROOCH, pure diamonds,
Pearls and Rubies, or Sapphires,
£6/10/.
wmvmjmmmdrs:
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold 2-Bar Pearl Set Spray
Brooch,
17/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Juvenile Band BRACELET,
any name engraved, 15/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold Crescent and Star BROOCH,
Five Pure Double-cut Diamonds,
-£lO-
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold LINKS, set
pure Diamonds,
£3/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold PEN-
DANT, set 38 fine
pure double-cut Dia-
monds,
£35.
THOUSANDS
OF OTHER
IDEAS IN
OUR FREE
CATALOGUE.
SEND FOR
A COPY.
A. SAUNDERS,
loet Gold EAR-
RINGS, set fine
Tourmalines,
£2/10/.
£6/10/-
Ladies’ ISct Solid Gold
Half Hunting Keyless
WATCH, jj-plate, Expansion
Balance, £6/10/- Extra
quality £7/10/. Guaranteed
Free Repairs 4 and 5 years.
£7/10/-
OUR FREE
CATALOGUE
IS FULL
OF OTHER
GIFT
SUGGESTIONS.
WELL WORTH
SEEING.
Sold Gold
EARRINGS, set
Pearls and Tur-
quoise drop,
'25 /.
0°
<9®
1K . A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold NECKLACE, set
3 fine, pure, white, double-
cut Diamonds,
£3O
WE PAY
POSTAGE.
A. SAUiNDERS.
18ct Gold Dia-
mond, 2 Cluster,
£7/10/.
Larger diamonds,
£lO.
WE PAY
POSTAGE.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold RING,
set five pure
double-cut Dia-
monds,
£l2/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold,
Pearls and Gar-
net, or Peridot,
12/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold, set
red, blue, or
green stone,
20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, pure
Double-rut. Dia-
mond,
£7/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold 2-heart
RING, set pure
double-cut dia-
monds,
£l7/10/.
©In":
t'- <r~
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold, half-
chased Curb
BRACELET,
£3.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ot Gold Dia-
monds and Ruby,
or Sapphire,
-£lO-
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, set
4 Diamonds and
Red or Blue
E * f>
IP*
es
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold BRVELET Expanding. WATC’\ 1-p Vite,
Lever Movement. Full Jewelled, Perfectly Timed,
and adjusted,
£l<)
A. SAUNDEKS.
9ct Gold LINKS,
17/6
loot. 27/6. Initials en-
graved 1/6 extra.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold Combina-
tion Brooch PENDANT,
set Pure White Double-cut
Diamonds,
-£4O-
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold RING,
set Diamond and
Rubies, or Sap-
phires,
25/.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, Dia-
monds and Eme-
rald Cluster
RING.
£7/10.
A. SAUNDERS.
Silver HATPIN,
strong steel
Stem.
A. SAUNDERS.
;sct. Gold CRESCENT BROOCH,
Pure Double-cut Diamonds and
Rubies, or Sar"hiro S and Whole
Pearl,
£l2/11)/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold BROOCH, set Pearls and
Red or Blue stones,
1 2/<>.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Music BROOCH, Dearest,
12/0
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Half Curb MUFF-CHAIN,
pretty and neat, £24/10/-
£3, £3/10/, £4/10/. 15-t Gold,
£4/10/, £5, £5/10/, £O/15/,
£7//10.
jg§2
02
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold WATCH-BOX, £3.
Other sizes, £3/10/, £4, £4/10/.
Plain if desired.
A. SAUNDERS.
Back COMB, 9ct Gold, Scroll Mount,
15/.
I A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold' 2-Bar BROOCH, Amethyst centre,
255/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Half-round Plain BRACELET, strong safety
chain attached, 30/. 15ct. Gold, £2/15/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Com-
pass PENDANT,
15/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Forget-
me-Not Sway
CHARM,
7/6
Gent.’s Iligh-f
WATCH, full <
dust and water
Higher Grade,
;rade Solid Silver Hunting Keyless
Chronometer Balance, extra jewelled,
proof cases, perfectly accurate and
reliable,
£2.
£2/10/. Guaranteed free repairs for
Two Years.
WE PAY
POSTAGE.
£2.
HIGHER
GRADE,
A. SaJ.sDEKS.
Oct Gold PENDANT,'
set fine Pearls and
Amethyst,
22/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Leaf
CHARM,
5/6-
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold BROOCH, set fine quality
Opal,
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold BROOCH, set five pure white
Double-cut Diamonds,
£2O-
- and Rubies or Sapphires,
£l2/10/.i
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Half-chased Bamboo BRACELET, safety
chain attached,
£2/5/.
9ct Gold Sig-
net KING, 22/6.
Initials en-
graved free of
charge.
Gold, 40/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold ‘."Engraved
TIE CLIP, 10/6.
Plain, 10/.
Silver 2/6. Chased 3/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold,' Fancy Basket Pattern BRACELET, strong safety chain attached,
£?,/1 O /•
A.-SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold Spray BROOCH, Pearls
and Turquoise,
£2/10/
A. SAUNDERS.
Pet Gold Band
RING, set red
or blue stone,
lO fi
JEWELLER/
zCIOC/fj
Ik MAKER h
xjg
«**“■ SYDNEY'S LEADING JEWELLER! —«■
807,809.811,815,815,817,GE0RGE ST. (Opposite Railway Sralion) SYDNEY,N.S.W.
D SILVERSMITH
i tpVSNLTINc i
koPTICIANiI


66
DAYira
T*
NIGHT
WEAR
,Fr. r f:
(PEG? TRAOf I MAHkQ
dresses and iJndergannents.
For Children’s Frocks.
For Gentlemen’s Shirts 8 Pyjamas.
i i HIT*
Garments
do not shrink, are soft to the tenderest
skin, are durable, are sure preventions of
chill, and may be obtained in the nev/est
Autumn Designs and Colorings.
Extract from THE QUEEN :
“Once people take to this fabric, they keep
to it always.”
The “Viyella” name is a guarantee of
the good qualities of the material. See it
on the selvedge of the cloth.
To be obtained from the leading stores
in each town.
ĵfĝjfxj
T
TttE OtUY
TYRC }. .
BUILT on
/cimTinc
PRINCIPLE#
&
V
sr?:
&
DO
A
&
*vo
m oi
THE
iimmw
RUBBER (?
IB GEORGE f T
> /YDttCY
INCORPORATED 1838 BY SPECIAL ACT OF PARLIAMENT.
The Permanent Trustee Company
OP NEW SOUTH WALES, LTD. 17 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
TRUSTEES, ADMINISTRATORS, ATTORNEYS, AGENTS, Etc.
Trustee and Administrative Work of Every Description.
Estates and Properties Managed. Rents and Funds Collected.
Full Details on Application. ' A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager.
JO3IAH WEDGWOOD & SOUS, LTD,
S&tL
m
m
ESSSCMite
Registered Trade Mark, “W EDO WOOD.
Established at Etrurie, England,
1760 A.D.
as Manufacturers of
CHINA, EARTHENWARE, TEA
and DINNERWARE, TOILET-
WARE and ARTISTIC POTTERY
of all Kinc's.
IMPORTANT.— AII onr Goods are
branded “ WEDGWOOD” only. Any
addition such as " & (Jo." means you
are not buying “ Wedgwood."
Sole Agents for
AustralaUa—
WM. HODGE & SON,
91a York Street, Sydney; and
29 Elliott Street, Auckland.
fj ĵ
I
Hj
m
♦3*
-..-. r" v
.
:
i
>C
r
THE Government guarantees Chateau Tanunda
to be absolutely pure Grape Brandy—
thoroughly matured by storage in wood.
Additional evidence of ithe quality and good-
ness of this fine old Brandy is to be found in
the fact that it is used in the principal hospitals
in London and Australia, and is supplied under
contract to the Orient mail boats.
The “G.R.” label on the bottle tells you that
Chateau Tanunda is a pure standard Brandy,
and the point for you to remember is that
that is not our statement, but the Government's,
and is therefore as dependable as the hall-mark
on silver, {
jxj
xj
cmrcao
TfINOMD/3
ĵfg


MS
ay
M
s'
/fl
xV
At THE TARRANT,
MELBOURNE.
WE WANT MORE ROOM—MORE FLOOR
SPACE.
PRESENT CARS MUST GO TO MAKE
WAY FOR NEW SHIPMENTS.
Late Models
at LOW
PRICES—
28/35 Fiat
20-h.p. Rover
Our Slightly Used
Gar Department.
10/12-h.p. Aster, single seater - £lO5
6-h.p.DeDions, single seaters,£loo to £llO
12/14-h.p. Argyll, five seater - £lB5
70-h.p. Mercedes, five seater - £450
15-h.p. Ford, single seater- - £ll5
10/12-h.p. F.N., single seater - £295
20-h.p. Ford, five seater - - £220
Write To-day for full particulars.
TARRANT MOTOR CO.,
108 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Dainty Footwear
for Ladies.
xgj
Price
16/6
The superior excellence
of the Shoe illustrated has
been and is being proved time
and time again. It justifies the
highest praise we can give it. It fits
perfectly, is comfortable, looks well, wears
well, and gives to every woman who wears
it that satisfaction which accompanies
money well spent.
PRICE, 16/6.
Postage in Victoria, 9d. ; other States, 1/- extra.
LEXMING’S
BOOT STORES,
109 Swanston Street, Melbourne ;
257-259 Bourke Street, Melbourne;
303 Chapel Street, Prahran;
1-3 Errol Street, North Melbourne.
Cazeka Shoe Paste, in Black and Tan,
large tin, 6d.
Write lor our Booklet, “ Shoelight.” [1
MS
w
LOOK YOUNG
Dr. B. Alien-s (u.s.a.)
Mexican Walnut Stain
Is the only Permanent and really
satisfactory One Solution Hair Stain.
None Genuine without Signature -ALFRED ARDLEY.
AIL CHEMISTS
\ MONTHLY GUIDE for everything Aus-
j\ trali an. That’s The Lone Hand. “A
marvellous sixpenn’orth ! ”
The Safest Laxative
for Delicate People.
To overcome Constipation it is of the utmost importance
to form regular habits daily, so that assistance to nature
may be gradually dispensed with, as the best of remedies,
when needed, are to assist and not to supplant the natural
functions, which must depend ultimately upon proper
nourishment, proper efforts, and right living generally.
The assistance of California Syrup of Figs, while
endeavouring to form regular habits, is most valuable, and
for delicate people, especially women and children, there is
nothing so safe or so truly beneficial.
“NATURE’S PLEASANT LAXATIVE,’*
acts with extreme mildness, relieves congestion promptly yet gently,
overcomes sluggishness gradually, tones and soothes the entire organism
and thus encourages, not forces regularity. You can depend upon
California Syrup of Figs to have the desired effect without disturbing the
natural functions and without debilitating, while its flavour is so pleasant
that all children's objections to medicine vanish at the first taste.
xgj
When purchasing ask emphatically for
California Syrup of Figs and see that you get
the genuine, which bears this circular trade
mark in blue at the top of the package.
Of Chemists, in two sizes.
TRAPE
m
iOll
mark\
•SOj
The Spaldiivg Trade Mark
which adorns Implements used by the Most
Successful Players in all Branches of Sport.
V.OI Nq
RADE
m
LD
MARK
crem
Ask for Goods bearing this Trade Mark, for, besides obtaining the very best
article, you are also covered by the following Guarantee:
“We guarantee that any article bearing the Spalding Trade Mark will give satisfaction and a reason-
able amount of service, under ordinary Conditions and fair treat,ment. . .
« We agree to repair or replace, free of charge, any such article which proves defective in material or
° workmanship, provided it is returned to us during the season m which it was puichased.
A. G. SPALDING & BROS, are the Largest Manufacturers of Sporting and
‘ / Athletic Goods in the WORLD.
SPALDING TRADE MARK GOODS Golf, Cricket, Football, Hockey, Baseball. Lacrosse, Basket Ball, Polo,
Punching Balls, Roller Skates, Lawn Bowls, Indian Clubs, Dumb Bells, Running
' Shoes, etc.
TRADE
I
LDI
MARK.
CRI AT
•so:
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL THE BETTER DEALERS,
or
A. G. SPALDING & BROS,
of Australasia Ltd.,
228 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
V-OINc
TRADE
M
LD
MARK
CAErf
SMOKERS!! 1
Have you ruined your nerves,
enfeebled your heart, destroyed
your brain with tobacco poison ?
If so, regain health & strength
by taking
“SMOKURE” TABLETS.
Every medical man condemns the vice of
Bmokiu'T because they see the destruction
of life through tobacco or nicotine poison.
The number of youths and men diseased
in mind and body through excessive
tobacco and cigarette smoking is fearful.
“ SMOKUEE’ ’ Tablets are the antidote.
They destroy the craving for tobacco,
health follows. Send stamps for free par.
ticulars to the
Nlcoto-Manla Tablet Co.,
75 Wentworth Court,
Elizabeth Street
Sydney
AGENTS WANTED.
LIVE Representatives to control exclusive
territory for manufacturer's line of High-
grade Soaps and Toilet Articles. Sensible
assortments in beautiful boxes at low prices.
100 per cent, to 200 per cent, profit. Write for
Illustrated Catalogue.
E. M. DAVIS SOAP CO., Chicago, U.S.A.
Established 15 Years.
fj
“THE HEART OF THE AUTOMOBILE”—
iLmmSchebler Carburetor
The best Vaporising Device for ALL PETROL
ENGINES— either Land or Marine, Stationary
or Moving. If you \yant to get more HORSE-
POWER from your Engine or a GREATER
NUMBER OF MILES PER GALLON use
“THE SCHEBLER.” Booklet and all Infor-
mation Free. Correspondence Invited.
ROBERT C. SWAN & CO. LTD.,
304 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
(The Acetylene Burner House).
EDWARD FAY
The Big
Boot BlocK.
Fay is Offering You Utmost Value for Money.
Our Stores are' open
till 10 p.m. on Friday.
Close at 1 o’clock
Saturday.
WE HAVE JUST LANDED
SOME DAINTY WEAR
FOR LADIES
THE BECTIVE.
English Make.
22\6
B. 180.
Country Orders should
be accompanied, with 1/-
extra for postage.
ĵ
We specially invite you
to inspect our Stock <‘f
English and American
Footwear. Our Prices
are the Lowest in
Sydney', and the Quality
is First.
Ask our Salesman all
about “ Dreadnought ”
Soles. They will out-
last three ordinary soles.
Cent's, 1/9;
Ladles’, 1/6 Pair.
GOODS DELIVERED FREE IN CITY
AND SUBURBS DAILY.
Corner PITT 8 LIVERPOOL STREETS, 8 at 71b GEORGE STREET, HAYMARRET, SYDNEY
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted , whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (o.f any State) accompany.
Binghi: “One has only to live north of the
Tropic of Capricorn for a year or so to find that the
white labor policy would seriously affect the fascinating
pearling industry.” No doubt, no doubt. A few of us
can remember when the same yarn was told about gold-
mining in Victoria. Before that it was remarked that,
with free white labor, agriculture in N.S.W. was impos-
sible. Subsequently, a white labor policy was going to
ruin the Bananaland sugar business. No wonder Aus-
tralia has definitely thrown over the idea that the white
race is blanc mange .... Wilts : Much obliged....G. McD. .
It is plain that you consider rhyme was made for poor
devils of poet-slaves. So you say what you want to say-
like a freeman, and struggle not at all after line-endings
that chime. It is a cheerful, direct method, winch has
its advantages. Four verses :
THE SVVAGMAN.
He won’t be seen at the close of day
Foot-sore, tired and weary,
Making his way to the travellers’ hut
For he’s got a job on a Dairy.
Now he’ll be seen before break of Day
With hurricane Lamp and Leir rope,
Bailing up the Damned old Cow
With Mr. and Mrs. Cockie.
He’ll be seen on the road with a broken-down
Horse
Driving the Cream to the Factory,
And hanging around till the Mail comes in
Since he’s working on a Dairy.
He’ll be seen at night by Candle light
Foot-sore, Dam tired and weary,
Mending the Harness or Greasing the Cart
Since he’s working for a Cockie.
H. (V.): The clergyman who said he could not
christen the dying child because it was not expiring in
his parish deserved some severe remarks ; but you don’t
seein capable of supplying them. When the holy man
reaches Paradise, he will, no doubt, be surprised and
disappointed if he finds that it is not divided up into
prayer-tight compartments Boyce B. : The verses say
nothing in particular rather gracefully Waster: The
basket yawned for it... .Noel : Tim Bullktin doesn’t cir-
culate in the nursery. Its “Children’s Page’’ blew up
the morning its stipendiary Aunt Jane was heavily fined
for being a drinker of methylated spirits... .Gorse :An
extra mild curate might discover something m it to
shudder over. We are out of curates just now ...
5.8. H.: Unskilful work. The slight plot is ancient and
the handling very amateurish Semper: Mechanically
sentimental verse. As you sing about your roses we can
see you beating time with your foot-rule... .Cecee : Can-
not use... .E.E. (V.): Afraid not... .Dubbluell : Idea is
fairly good ; but you haven’t handled it with enough
5ki11....F. Grace: Verses weak. A better plan for
cleansing the continent was suggested by a Bullk.tin
writer some months ago. His idea was that Par-
lianient should be asked to pass a short Act abolish-
ing sin S.J. (Q.): Too long and labored Boyd C.:
Unsuitable.. ..Sheoak: Hardly up to print level yet.
j. R. MacC.: A fragment of sincere station verse,
with one or two original touches. Too rough for use....
Aorai: No E.A.8.: Sorry Delesia cannot be admitted.
N.E.S.T.: Rather slight, but we will look at it again.
""Cauiibchie : Neither Freedom nor Whisky lole :
Is it any good ? Of course it is :
SOULS.
What are souls ? Elusive things,
Borne about on unseen wings.
Else how could they ever fly
Hither, thither in the sky?
Souls have eyes ; down each glance
Swiftly glide, and then, re-glance.
Souls have ears, for each would hear
The other when it called “ Dear.”
Souls have lips, they would not miss
Earth’s reflection of a kiss.
Souls have arms ; they’d be so sad
If caresses they ne’er had.
Who would be a lonely soul
Wandering to and from the Pole?
Rather like dragon flies, aren’t they? J.A.K. :No
body in it, and’practically no 50u1... .Clodie : Hid our
blushes in the basket.. .Searchlight: This is a world of
unfilled wants, but we guess it has no use for your “ Ode
to Our Boarding-house Fleas.” ...W.A.A. : You will not
sing in these columns; you will not even groan C.
(V.): The humorous back-breaking story is home-circle
humor... V.B.M. : Very raw’and harrowing. The recital-
ghoul who loves to babble “The Pool of Blood” and
“Done to Death” would be terrible in it Kowhai:
Thanks for points ; but it’s too late to resurrect. And,
anyway, the point aimed at w’as the need of tree-planting.
Balmy B. : Can’t undertake to return unus d pars.
And no stamps were enclosed, in any’ case.... A.L.L.:
You’re wrong ; he had lately returned from an official
inspection of the place.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
I. : A long road to travel yet before you reach Pub-
lication Point. Bro: Drau’ing scratchy and hopeless;
but Minns might build a picture on the joke 4to B.:
Afraid General Public doesn’t know enough about the
machine to appreciate the joke.. .P.A.G.F.: A series?
Like that! In pity, don’t Garnet S.: Not much de-
mand for such jokes ; a little vomit goes a long way.
Tom Mackenzie, M.L.’s Minister for In-
dustry and Commerce, wasn’t always a supporter
of the Liberal-Labor Government in the land
where the lOU has a more powerful kick than a
herd of moas ever had. Reviewing the Ballance
Government in 1892, of which Joe Ward and
Jimmy Carroll were members, Thomas broke into
verse to express his feelings :
Y’r principle’s a simple plan :
Follow the Government a' ye can,
Talk blethers to the working-man—
On him ye doat;
Nae doubt ye'd turn Mohammedan
To catch a vote !
That is 19 years ago, and the same crowd is still
there, worse rather than better, still borrowing
from Aaron to pay Ike—still The Old Brokes At
Home. But Mackenzie didn’t flinch when he was
asked to join them. He just grabbed his port-
folio with both hands, and 10, it covered a multi-
tude of sins.
“Ex-Typo”: Miss Catherine Helen
Spence’s book may have persuaded the late
Edward Wilson, of the Akgus, to put his share
into a Trust, and feed charities with the proceeds,
as “ Condot” says in B. 16/2/T1; but a different
version was current among old Akgus hands,
some of whom remembered the palmy days before
Hugh George brought out the “ forty thieves ” to
pull down prices. They said that “the old man”
(as they called Edward Wilson) had always bit-
terly regretted that hard financial necessity had
compelled him to take Squatter Lachlan Mac-
kinnon into partnership in order to save the
paper. He didn’t like the Mackinnon clan, and
feared that they might get sole control of the
paper after his death by buying out his heirs, as
thev had tried to buy out the Spowers. Hence
the" will. 1 recollect that there was a general
feeling of relief in the office when details of the
will came to hand. Perhaps without cause, we
feared the results of sole control by the Mac-
kinnons after Hugh George had been passed out
of the general managership.


We stock all kinds bf Music and Musical Instruments at 28 Hunter Street, Newcastle, and 107 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
m,
•ttittfifti
fgj
ĵ
We stocK all Kinds of Music and Musical Instruments at 28 Hunter Street, Newcastle, and 107 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
ONCE=A-WEEK PIANO TALKS
Of course, the chief requisite in a Piano is a good quality of tone.
But how many people know what makes the tone?
Purity and resonance of tone depend upon these things among others —a properly
made sounding-board , with its bridges and methods of fixing; the exact length , thickness ,
and radiation of the strings (or wires), and the striking point of the hammers . These
are some of the details of what is known as the scale.
Now, scale-designing is a very tedious work, requiring great skill, care and patience.
The majority of piano-makers do not draw up their own scales, but resort to the simple
method of copying the frame of some standard maker. But it is not possible in this way
to arrive at the same scale, because of the shrinkages which occur in casting the frame.
Yet the scale must be correct to within a sixty-fourth part of an inch if the tone is to be
as perfect as possible. Therefore copyists can only provide poor tone-quality in their
pianos, and this is one of the reasons why cheap instruments are defective in that regard.
We draw our own scale, on exact scientific lines, make the iron frames, set up the
action, construct the sounding-board throughout, and in every detail exercise the greatest
care. The timber in the sounding-board is graded from coarse in the base to fine in the
treble, and the whole is tapered and cambered. We are able to use thicker strings than
any of our competitors because of the great strength of our patented steel tuning system,
and thus we get a more bell-like tone.
one of the most distinguished men in the musical world of London, Mr. Wilhelm
Ganz (accompanist to Madame Adelina Patti) to whom tone would be everything,
wrote us —
“ It gives me great pleasure in stating that I consider the Grand Pianoforte which you exhibited at the
Franco-British Exhibition a very first-rate instrument. I much enjoyed playing on the same. The touch is
excellent, likewise the tone —I especially admired the wonderful tone of the bass. In fact I hardly remember
a pianoforte with a more resonant sound, and Australia may be very proud of your having produced such a fine
instrument. With every good wish for your success in the production of these pianofortes, I remain, yours
' very faithfully, WILHELM GANZ.”
We cordially invite you to come and inspect our new models. The casework is
finished in the fashionable style —quite plain, in order to allow of the highest quality in
the musical portions of the piano.
If you cannot call , write for the BEALE BLUE-BOOK.
BEALE <a CO. Ltd.
PRINCIPAL SHOWROOMS-
378 George St., Sydney
(3 Doors from
G.P.0.)
127 Rundle St., Adelaide, S.A.
107 Swanston St., Melbourne
837 Hay St., Perth, W.A.
90 Queen St., opp. Pike Bros., our New and Only Address in Brisbane.
Branch Offices at Newcastle, Bathurst, Orange and Qoulburn, N.S.W.; Maryborough, Rockhampton,
Mackay and Townsville, Queensland ; Kalgoorlie, W.A.
Travellers Everywhere. Write for Catalogue. 25 Years* Guarantee.
Head Office and Factories - - TRAFALGAR. ST*, ANNANDALE, SYDNEY,
Cash or Easy Terms. Repairs and Tuning.
Save Importers* Profits by Buying Direct from the Manufacturers.
We stocK all Kinds of Music and Musical Instruments at 28 Hunter Street, Newcastle, an I HCSfc Iwanston Street, Melbourne.
We stock all kinds of Music and Musical Instruments at 28 Hunter Street, Newcastle, and 107 Swanston Street, Melbourne,


IMHAIR
OMSK!
m.
■9,
C
y
Y*
n
Assured by the Use of
CUTICURA
Soap and Ointment
All who delight in a clear
skin; soft, white hands; a
clean, wholesome scalp and
live, glossy hair will find
that these pure, sweet and
gentle emollients realize
every expectation in pro-
moting skin and hair health
and bodily purity.
Depots: London, 27, Charterhouse Sq.: Paris. 10,
Rue ue la Chaussee d’Antln; Australia, R. Towns <fc
Co., Sydney; India. B. K. Paul. Calcutta: China,
Hong Kong Drug Co ; Japan, Z. P. Maruya. I.td.,
Tokio; So. Africa. Lennon, Ltd., Cape Town, etc.:
U.S.A., Potter Drug <fe Chem. Corp., Sole Props.,
133 Columbus Ave., Boston.
w#“Pagt-free, 32-page Cutlcura Book, an Author-
ity on the Care and Treatment of Skin and Hair.
Dr. Hartmann’s
ANTINEURASTHIN
and Nervous BreaKdown.
In nervous breakdown the brain and nerve cellsniust be
FED, and not stimulated by medicines in the form of
tonics or sedatives, which give temporary relief, but can-
not effect permanent improvement.
Lecithin is the ONLY substance by which the brain
and nerves can be nourished ; and it is Lecithin which
the system requires in all eases of neurasthenic condi-
tions. (Nervous Disorders, Dyspepsia, Neuralgia, Brain
Fag, Insomnia, Depression, Insanity, etc.) If the brain
and nerves can be supplied sufficiently with Lecithin the
cure is certain ; Antineurasthin supplies that substance
and effects the cure.
ANTINEURASTHIN is the ONLY known preparation
containing an effective percentage of Lecithin in an
active organic state, completely assimilable, and with its
valuable principles undiminished in any way.
A sample of Antineurasthin, together with a valuable
treatise on Nervous Disorders, will be despatched by
return of mail by the Wholesale Distributor for Australia
and New Zealand —11. A. GODDARD, Eagle Street,
Brisbane ; and H. A. GODDARD, 194 Vickery’s Chambers,
Pitt Street, Sydney, on receipt of ninepencein stamps. [2
STOP
SMOKING!
MOST MEN would cure themselves of
the Tobacco habit if they knew they
could do so easily and without discomfort.
It takes but ten minutes for tobacco to
change the beats of the heart. To keep it
up is to tempt death by Heart Disease,
Nervous Collapse, Tobacco Cancer, and
Stomach, Liver or Kidney Disease.
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a harmless,
vegetable remedy that will make the user
of tobacco in any form absolutely abandon
the habit for good. It not only destroys
> the craving, the desire, the appetite for
tobacco, but restores to health the entire
nervous system, and aids nature in entirely
eliminating from the system the Nicotine
Poison.
You Can Try It FREE.
Send 2d. Stamp and we will post you a FREE
SAMPLE, also our FREE BOOKLET— “The
Tobacco Habit and Its Consequences.”
H. SINCLAIR & CO., Dept. G,
Victoria Arcade, Sydney, [i
OH ! Only a. Cold !
But why have it when you can throw it off so
easily? Don’t waste time with various nos-
trums. Help Nature to expel the poison from
your system by a trial of the ideal aperient,
LAXATINE,
the Lozenge Laxative.
Pleasantly flavored. Perfect in action. You’ll
feel the ‘ benefit immediately. No striping
effect. Creates new life.
1/- per box. All Chemists. [2
The PEOPLE S MEDICINE
THE BEST AND BEST-KNOWN CURE
FOR INDIGESTION
AND KINDRED STOMACH AND LIVER TROUBLES—
MOTHER
SEIGEL’S SYRUP.
The claim of Mother Seigel’s Syrup to be the people’s medicine is backed
by the most convincing testimony, based on actual experience. Men
engaged in hard work and in sedentary occupations, men working below
ground, in the fields, on the seas ; men in mills, workshops and offices,
travellers and stay-at-homes ; women wage-earners and busy housewives ;
men and women, young and old, in every walk of life, testify daily that
Mother Seigel’s Syrup has cured them of stomach or liver disorders, and
keeps them well. For forty years, it has never failed the people who
have used it! Can you wonder that to-day, in sixteen countries, it b
.their trusted medicine ? Read these typical letters from grateful people!
On April 23, 1910, Mrs. P. A. Dc
Rooke, ol 254, Canning Street,
North Carlton, Victoria, wrote to
the Proprietors of Mother Seigel's
Syrup, as follows i—
“ Five years ago, I first had indigestion ;
and for the next three years, it kept me in
constant misery and ill-health. My
appetite failed, until I scarcely ate suffi-
cient to keep a child alive. Of course, my
strength and energy ebbed away until I
was nearly helpless. What little food I
had was mostly slops, as I could not keep
down anything solid.
* I suffered at various times from head-
aches, heartburn, palpitation and flatu-
lency, constipation, clammy sweats, and
aches and pains from head to foot. Often
I had, three or tour of these distressing
symptoms together, and then I knew what
it was to feel right down ill.
“ I had medical attention, but I got no
lasting good. Then one of my friends
induced me, two years back, to try Mother
Seigel’s Syrup. I felt greatly relieved after
one bottle of this remedy, and so I kept on
using it until I had taken, in all, four large
bottles of Syrup, and it cured me com-
pletely, thoroughly building up my health
and strength. I can now eat well, have not
an ache or pain, and for these inestimable
benefits I have to thank only Mother
Seigel’s Syrup.”
Ii you have pains after eating, wind, or
a sense of fulness in the stomach, a nasty
taste in the mouth or a furred tongue,
headaches, dizziness, specks floating be-
fore your eyes, sleeplessness, languor, or
low spirits, your food is poisoning you,
instead of doing you good. Mother
Seigel’s Syrup will clear the poison from
your system, prevent fresh poison from
forming, make food nourish you and cure
your ailments as surely and as quickly as
it cured Mrs. De Rooke.
Writing on January 11th, 1910,
from 47, Thomas Street, Dedfern,
N. S. W., Mr. E. McKillop says:—
For over twelve months I suffered
very much from Indigesl ion and stomach
disorder. I lost my appetite and became
very weak, nervous and depressed in
spirits. After eating, I had dull, heavy
pains in the chest, where food seemed to
lodge in a hard, solid mass, and this was
often accompanied by flatulency and
other painful stomach trouuice. T wa«-
also subject to severe headaches.
“ I tried quite a number of medicines,
both m liquid and solid form, recom-
mended as ‘ remedies ’ for Indigestion, but
they did not help me in the least. It was
just a waste of money purchasing them.
I went on from bad to worse, until I was
induced, through reading a book left at
my place, to try Mother Seigel’s Syrup.
That was early in 1008. |
“ Mother Seigel’s Syrup proved very
different from all other medicines I had
tried, and I was soon convinced that it
was as sure a cure as I had read it was.
The first bottle considerably relieved the
worst of my symptoms, and restored my
appetite. After that, I picked up so
rapidly that, by the time I had finished
two more bottles of Mother Seigel’s Syrup,
I could eat anything I had a mind to, and
was a well man again. I was, in fact,
completely cured of my Indigestion and
other ailments and I still enjoy the good
health which Mother Seigel’s Syrup
brought back to me.”
Mother Seigel’s Syrup is a herbal tonic for the stomach, liv.r and
bowels; and that is all that people need when they suffer from stomach
or liver troubles, such as pains after eating, fulness at the ~hest,
flatulence, heartburn, biliousness, headaches, constipation, dizziness,
sleeplessness, or that “run-down” feeling. The people who have had
such troubles as these, and have taken Mother Seigel’s Syrup, have been
cured by the thousand, even after all else had failed. If you have any
stomach or liver trouble, Mother Seigel’s Syrup, the people s medicine
will quickly cure you and make you strong and well!
COLDS
TRADE
MARK
Colds and chills
require prompt treatment.
F* Freeman’s — the Original Chlorodyne, taken at the first
symptom, quickly cures, and prevents more serious complications. ,
Freeman’s is also excellent in Asthma, Bronchitis, Neuralgia, and Dysentry.
Highly recommended and used by Doctors for sixty - five years.
See * ELEPHANT ’ on every bottle, your safeguard against imitations
If your Chemist
is out of stock,
| order a bottle
he can quickly
get it
1/14,2/9 and 4/6 per bottle.
FREEMANS
CHLORODYNE
NATURAL
ENOS
HEALTH-GIVING
FRUIT
REFRESHING
SALT
INVIGORATING
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Gvvy” : Those Yankee faked foods which the
bad Australian consumes, because, being foreign, they
•must be better than the Australian goods, are having a
warm time in their own back yard. The procedure of
the men who run them is to serve up a host of scientific
or quasi-scientific statements leading to the assertion
that bread causes indigestion, and oatmeal appendicitis,
and so forth, whereas “Brown Chunks” or “Corn
Chips,” being predigested (whatever that may be), will
build up walloping big brains, and steer the consumer
clear of that tired feeling and ’most every other trouble.
One case is having particular attention. Besides boom-
ing a “ coffee,” which is no more coffee than it is shaving-
soap, a gallant “Colonel" of Michigan, runs a much-
advertised brand of breakfast fodder. The practice in
Australia and elsewhere has been to publish glowing
testimonials from users, and to allege that these docu-
ments come into the Michigan factory by the barrow-
load. This went on merrily till Oolmkr’s YV burly, the
big paper (big in ideas and courage rather than in size),
took the matter up and proceeded against the crowd for
publishing misleading statements in their advertise,
ments ; and the paper obtained £lO,OOO damages. When
the gallant Colonel got into the box, things became in-
teresting. Under gentle pressure, he admitted that the
testimonials, many of which had been secured by offers
of a dollar, were edited in the company’s office. He
would not swear that a single “ testimonial ” had been
advertised as received, and he admitted that some had
been re-written from start to finish. Now Coli.ikr’s
(7/1/11) is devoting the £lO,OOO to an extension of the
crusade against fraudulent advertising, which is a neat
way of making the enemy provide the ammunition.
* * * *
They are not too oppressively moral in S.A.
The argument about a railway to Willunga, in the rich
hill country south from Adelaide, is still raging. Two
obstacles are in the path : (1) There are at least three
routes by which the line might fairly go ; (2) the Gov-
ernment cannily demands a guarantee of expenses and
interest. The latter condition is fiercely objected to by
Walter Reynell, the richest man in the district, and a
following. At one meeting Ryan, Labor M.L.A., used
the word “ sequence.” Reynell offered to bet £lO that
Ryan didn’t know the meaning of the word. One of the
audience took up the wager ; the money was produced
and “covered ” on the chairman’s table, and; in spite of
that official’s shocked warning that everybody concerned
was breaking the law, the dispute was left to be settled
by the Crown Solicitor, of all people.
“Sand” : Re “T. P. Banger” (B. 2/2/11). My
work of chasing the elusive cheque in and out of Sydney
business houses has given me unusual opportunities of
watching the attitude of the Sydney male clerk towards
ttie typiste. Summed up, it’s respectful adoration. She
glides from manager’s room to the general office, and
generally pervades the place, like a butterfly. Prom
manager to telephone devil her greeting is a deferential
smile and soft-spoken words. As she passes behind a
row of quill-drivers they mostly try to catch a smile from
her, and have thereby developed rubber necks. If she
needs a messenger to bring her a meat-pie and a cup of
tea, the boys will cheerfully leave the mail stamping and
chase through the streets, carrying the m.p. in itsgreasy
paper bag. Whether, collectively, they’d like to wring
her neck I don’t know ; but if they feel that way they
individually manage to dissemble their hate amazingly.
■»•»**
“A. V.”: Queer tradesmen bump against
you in North Queensland. .The tinsmith and the car-
penter, who carry their swags from town to town, are
ordinary mortals; and there is also the individual who
turns a kerosene tin into a flower pot while you wait;
likewise, the chap who takes your cows’ cast-off hoofs
and changes them into cushions. Most of us have supplied
these with a few meals; but a red-bearded cove, who in-
I vaded our home the other morning and offered to make a
I bed-quilt out of the boss’s old trousers, was something
out of the ordinary.
“Boswell”: The welcome an allegedly White
Australia gives to the nigger-grown and made jute goods
(B. 19/1/T1) is paralleled by the welcome given to the
nigger-grown banana. The great Fiji banana co. or ring
colleots any low-class Hindu riffraff willing to shift its
hurdle ; and the “ wages” paid to these hawk-faced im-
portations are so unspeakably low that they scarcely
enter into the argument. The vegetable harvest of this
crowd is then dumped down on our wharves without a
query being raised as to how Australian grow ers are to
pay white wages in the face of such competition.
• « • •
“ Would-be Planter ” : Guilfoyle’s new book on
Australian botany is adrhirable. But another is much
needed. This is a bringing up to date of Mueller’s valu-
able work on tropical plants adapted to Australian culti-
vation. The last edition is dated 1885, so the information
is a quarter of a century behind. When a man actually
contemplates growing anything strange to him, he wants
precise and local information, such as we have regarding
sugar. Besides, 25 years ago, tropical Australia had not
received much attention. Everything varies under
acclimatisation ; hence the information to be good must
be new. Mueller remarked that out of thousands of
species of grasses only a few dozens had been scientifi-
cally tested. How many since?
* '-* * *
The famous kauri gum of Maoriland north has
struck a Jack Johnson in the shape of a wood-oij ex-
pressed from the nut of a Chinese tree that spreads itself
more or less over 750,000 square miles of the land where
the eangue and the cheap coolie grow. The new com-
petitor has been taken up by a European varnish ring,
which js letting M.L. know what good stdff it is,
A SONG OF SHAVING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
"Personally I would make it a penal offence for a man to
shave himself. If I want a pound of steak I buy it from
the butcher’s, and do not buy the whole animal ; cut it
up, and take my steak from the carcase. I consider that
when a man has done his day’s work he should not go
home and shave himself, but patronise us. He ought to
yive another man a chance. ‘Live and let live ’is my
motto."—The president of the Melbourne Hairdressers'
Association. v
The worst almost of thieves and snobs,
I meekly rise to say,
Is he who shaves himself and robs
The barber of his prey.
The sixpence which he thereby saved
Was due to him who should have shaved.
We give and take, we take and give—
It is the rule of Trade.
The barber has a right to live,
Else why were razors made ?
(By razors, please to understand,
I do not mean the “ safety ” brand.
I mean the open blades you shut
Between two sheaths of bone,
With which the barbers duly cut
All chins except their own.
Those “ safeties ” are inventions mean
For painless shaving, neat and clean.)
The blades that freely draw your blood
For barbers were designed,
With them they earn their daily food
And lacerate mankind.
(A thousand times, in times of yore,
The barber fiend has shed my gore.)
I deem it now a deadly sin
For you, or even me,
To clear the bristles from our chin
And sneak the barber’s fee.
(I'm, personally, quite content
To sin, and risk the punishment.)
But worse than he whose daily vice
The barber fiend laments,
Is he who will not pay the price
Of shaving implements,
But cultivates a curling mo
And lets his wicked whiskers grow.
VICTORIA.
O.K.


Amott’s Milk Arrowroot Biscuits
“THE CHILDREN’S FOOD.”
W. H. HIGGINS,
Bulb Grower and Importer,
125 Ryrie St., Geelong, Victoria.
Largest Collection of Daffodils In Australia.
Other Specialities: Tulips. Hyacinths,
Anemones, Ranunculi.
Well-matured Bulbs at Less than English Prices.
Write for 1911 Catalogue Recently Issued.
Amusements.
REAT PATRIOTIC WELCOME
H.M.A.S. “PARRAMATTA” & “YARRA”
SYDNEY CRICKET GROUND,
Next WEDNESDAY NIGHT, MARCH 22
IMPRI-SSIVE NAVAL
DEMONSTRATION.
MAGNIFICENT FIREWORKS
DISPLAY
ON A SCALE OF UNUSUAL SPLENDOR.
H
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager: J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8 O’CLOCK,
Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON presents
VIA WIRELESS.
A Drama in Four Acts, by Paul Armstrong’ and
Winchel Smith.
POWERFUL SCENES, SUPERBLY ACTED.
PLAN AT PALING’S.
Lessee & Manager .. J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING at 7.45,
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY
OUR MISS GIBBS.
RESPLENDENT REVELRY, SENSATIONAL GOWN-
ING, GAY MUSIC and LOTS OF FUN.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Prices as usual.
-|"HE LYCEUM, SYDNEY-
EVENINGS, 8. MAT., WED. & SAT., 2.30.
SPENCER’S THEATRESCOPE CO.
BRILLIANT SUBJEOTS-ALL NEW.
MR. SPENCER’S OWN PRODUCTION,
CAPT. STARLIGHT.
PRICES, etc., AS USUAL.
NOTE.—WE CHANGE MONDAYS and THURSDAYS.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY
Lessee: FRANK MUSGROVE.
CLARKE and MEYNELL PTY., LTD., SEASON.
LAST NIGHTS OF
THE CLARKE & MEYNELL COMIC OPERA CO.
in that Fascinating Musical Play,
THE BELLE OE BRITTANY
Box Plan at ELVY’S. Day Sale, White Rose.
THE GLACIARIUM, SYDNEY.
■ Opposite Railway Station—Where all Id. trams stop.
BIGGER, BRIGHTER and BETTER THAN EVER
WEST’S PICT URES,
“ BEST OF ALL.”
Proprietors—Wests, Limited. Mgr. Dir. : T. J. West.
DE GROEN’S VICE-REGAL ORCHESTRA.
6d. to 2/- Plan at. Nicholson’s (Fee, 6d. extra).
T IVOIL THEATRE, iY D W I~v7
■ Sole Proprietor & Manasrer — Mr. Harry Rickards
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS.
FASOLA, The Great Indian Fakir.
COOPER & LAIT, Musical Comedy- Artists.
MISS LUCIA LOTTIE COLLINS, Clever Entertainer.
ROUSBY’S Flashlight Scenes—GREATER LONDON.
CHARLES LILBURN, Clever Character Comedian.
ALEXANDER PRINCE, King of Concertina Players.
ODEYNE SPARK, London’s Dainty Comedienne.
And a GREAT COMPANY of Established Favorites.
PRICES—3s., 2s. and Is. Plan at Palings.
OPERA HOUSE, MEL BOURNE^
Sole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
WILD WILLIE AND WEST, Comedy Acrobats.
FRANK HARWOOD, Descriptive Vocalist.
LEIPZIG, Conjurer, Curd Manipulator.
KAVANAGH BOYS, Tennis Racquet Jugglers.
LUCIA COLLINS, Musical Sketch Artiste.
YETTA, Wire Walker.
Plan at Allan’s. XS~ PRICES— 35., 25., Is.
JHEATRE royal, mel b o urn e.
H. R. ROBERTS and BEATRICE DAY
in Wilson Barrett’s play,
LUCKY DURHAM,
FOR TWO MORE WEEKS ONLY.
Plans at Allan’s. PRICES AS USUAL.
-pHE KINO’S THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager : William Anderson.
SATURDAY NEXT, MARCH 18,
MAX MAXWELL’S DRAMATIC ORGANISATION
The Magnificent Drury Lane Spectacular Creation,
WOMAN AND WINE.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
PRICES-35., 2s. and Is.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Direction of GEORGE MARLOW, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING.
ALLAN HAMILTON’S NEW DRAMATIC COMPANY
WHY
Cast includin
MEN LOYE WOMEN.
MISS FRANCES ROSS,
MR. CONWAY WINGFIELD.
Plan at Allan’s. Popular Prices—3/-, ,2/-, 1/-
Early Doors, 6d. extra, Reserved Seat's, 4/-
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager: J. C. Williamson, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING.
Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON Presents Hewson’s Funny
Pantomime,
JACK AND THE BEANSTALK
For which a COMPANY OF COMEDIANS, SINGERS,
DANCERS and PANTOMIMISTS has been organised
such as has NEVER BEEN APPROACHED ON THE
AUSTRALIAN STAGE.
Plan at Allan’s. PRICES—S/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/-
UfEST’S PALACE, MELBOURNE.
the best WEST’S PICTURES, THB HESX
OF ALL. LIMITED. OF ALL.
Managing Director: Mr. T. J. West.
NIGHTLY AT 8.
Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays & All Holidays at 2.30.
The Greatest Pictorial Enterprise in the World.
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
Any Moving Picture Worthy of Note always to he seen at
WEST’S PICTURES. Complete Change every week.
Prices—6d. to 2s. Box Plan at Glen's.
H E
GLACIARIUM, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J.fcN.TAIT’S
PICTURES.
ALL THE LATEST PICTURES from Europe & America.
A COMPLETE CHANGE WEEKLY. Prices—2/-, 1/6,
1/-, 6d. Matin6es —Wednesday. Saturday, All Holidays.
J. & N. TAIT’S
QPEN-AIR THEATRE, ST. KILDA.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.30.
THE FOLLIES
NEW COSTUME COMEDY CO.
PRICES—I/6, 1/-, 6d.
IRTHS OLYMPIA.
EVERY EVENING AT 8
MATIMEES-WEDHtSDAYS.SAIUSDAYS AND HOLIDAYS At 2 30.
SPENCER'S'TfitATRtfCOPE <?.
PICTURES
rf/ic superior. ro pi.l others^
Popular Pjßir.ra , Pla>i as Umial •»y_|
L" Where Melbourne Suburbs Southward Meet.”
YRIC THEATRE, Chapel Street, Prahran.
AUSTRALIA’S COOLEST and PRETTIEST THEATRE.
PHOTO PLAYS
EVERY EVENING AT 8 p.m.
MATINEE SATURDAY AT 2.30.
LYRIC ORCHESTRA.
AUSTRALIA’S MOST COMPLETE THEATRE
ORCHESTRA.
Plan at Allan’s and Clias. M. Read's Bureau.
|y|AX MAXWELL’S DRAMATIC CO.
KING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE,
TO-NIGHT at 8, and EACH EVENING,
“WOMAN AND WINE,”
Business Announcements.
THE DRUM
IN POSITION
(|NVISIBLF\
DEAFNESS
And HEAD NOISES Relieved toy
Using WILSON’S COMMON-SENSE
EAR-DRUMS.
A scientific invention entirely different
in construction from all other devices.
They have restored hearing when other
devices fai ed and medical skill gave-no
relief. Soft, comfortable and invisible;
no wire or string attachment.
Write for Pamphlet. Mention this paper.
STAR NOVELTY CO„ ?29 Collin!
Street, Melbourne.
j
KURLO”— Hair-Curling Fluid. Beautful
wavy hair is most admired. “ Kurlo ” produces
| most natural-looking waves or curls in a lew
days. Very little trouble ; no tongs or pins re-
quired. “ Kurlo ” curls are not affected by fog,
sea air, heated ballrooms, etc. May be used
for I.adies’, Gent.’s or Children’s hair. Neither sticky
nor greasy; makes the hair soft and silky. Bottles,
25 6d post free, in plain wrapper. Amtrican Toilet
Ag ncy, Box 466 G.P.O , Melbourne.
a
4&L
“GRO-A-MO” forces growth of moustache and whis-
kers. Bottles, 2S„ post free, in plain wrapper.
American Toilet Agency, Box 466 G.P.0., Melbourne.
ROYAL
EASTER
SYDNEY
HOW
11th to 19th April, 1911.
ENTRIES CLOSE:
Horses - March 15
Cattle = March 16
Sheep and Pigs - = March 16
Poultry = March 17
Dogs =
Farm and Dairy Produce =
Women’s Industries
Miscellaneous -
March 20
March 21
March 22
March 23
PRIZE SCHEDULES and ENTRY FORMS
Posted on Application.
Ocean House,
Moose Stkeet, Sydney.
H. M. SOMER,
Secretary.
Model “T” Touring Car, 4-cyl., 20-h.p., 5-passenger, £270 (full equipment included).
“FORDS” are without doubt the most suitable cars for Australian
conditions, and the following features will be at once recognised by
the man from the country as being absolute essentials:—
1. Extra High Clearance.
2. Liglit Weight.
3. Plenty of Power (20-h.p.)
4. Easy on Tyres.
5. Cheapness of Maintenance.
6. Extreme Simplicity.
7. Vanadium Steel.
S. Cost (£270 complete).
9. Interchangeable Parts.
10. .Reliability.
A large, full and complete set of SPARE PARTS is always kept in stock
in Sydney, which enables us to send by return mail any spare part required.
WRITE TO DEPT. B.
FORD MOTORS, 133-137 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
STEVENS
LITTLE SCOUT RIFLE NO. 14^
fgj
ĵ
fgj
THE RIGHT RIFLE FOR THE YOUNGEST BOY.
Parts attached to action itself, making it very simple. Weighs pounds.
Chambered for .22 Long-rifle R. F. Cartridges. Will also shoot .22 Long
R. F. and .22 Short R. F.
Af' Progressive
Dealers handle
STEVENS.
Write lor Catalogue to
ARTHUR H. HILL, Australian Represent-
ative for Stevens Arms and Tool Co.,
Box 86, G.P.0., Adelaide, S. Australia.
Send for latest Fire-
arm, Telescope and
Stevens - Pope Cata-
logues. [6
Aa?
Why you should wear
)99
All-wool unshrink-
able SocKs, Stockings,
and Underwear.
Because
they are the most comfortable all-Australian-wool wear:
they are absolutely unshrinkable: they are English Made.
The '%*£££ process imparts a soft, silky finish which makes
s£222!> wear superior to all others.
Yet cost no more than ordinary hosiery and
underwear.
Socks, Stockings, and Underwear for Men, Ladies, and Children.
4/40* *|»••*«'* In all prices. Of Men’s Outfitters, Drapers, and Stores. .If your
dealer does not stock he can obtain it from his wholesale house.
In case of difficulty write for “ Jason " booklet and name of nearest
Agent, to —
Jason Hosiery Co., Leicester, England. <i>
PICTURE SHOWMEN !
fjf
£37/10/
Buy a Beard’s
British=Built
Bioscope.
THERE are dozens working in the States, and
every one is giving thorough satisfaction in
daily use—the “Beard” is the machine with a
reputation.
Do you know that, apart from the Automatic
Cut-off, which prevents any possible firing
of film—with a BEARD Machine, by the
construction of its gates, you could not
burn more than one film, even if you had
rib cut off.
A 12 months’ guarantee goes with a
Beard’s Machine to be used daily.
JERDAN’S,
Leading Cinematograph
Specialists,
393 George Street
(Facing
Royal Hotel),
Sydney,
j
<2
ta,
DON’T LOOK SUCH A BOY!
Just ns it pays an old man to look younger than he is, so it pay's a young
man to look older than his years. Grown men will never give a position
of responsibility' to a mere y r outh—or one who looks to be so. To get a
man’s opportunities you must look a man. That budding soft down of a
moustache of yours makes y'ou look like a schoolboy'. Use CAPILLARINE,
and grow the full, strong moustache of a vigorous man.
Price 10/6 a. Jar Post Free in Plain Wrapper.
The C. & A. Moustache Trainer makes the moustache a
nice shape. Worn at night. 2/6 post free.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George St., Sydney. 1
Established
30 Years. "
1
s
L n
l


Shipping.
P. and 0. BRANCH SERVICE
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
* Twin-screw.
SALOON ACCOMMODATION, AMIDSUIPS,
CONVERTED INTO VERY SUPERIOR
ONE CLASS.
LONDON £l6, £lB and £2O.
CAPETOWN and NATAL £l3 135., £l5 15s. and £l7 17s.
CILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD., 7 Bent St.
Mkt.ho'iiinr Aokntb : JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William-street.
Adkimidk & Frkmanti.r Agknts : OEO. WILLS & CO.
ORIENT LINE.
AUSTRALIA ENGLAND.
ORVIETO .. Twin-Screw .
OSTERLEY
OTRANTO.. „
OTWAY .. „
ORSOVA .. „
ORONTES „ „
OMR AH .. „ „ .
OPTIIP „ „
12,130 Regd. Tons.
12,129 „
12,124 „
12,077 „
12,036 „
9,023 „
8.252 „
6,814 „
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy. New and luxurious
12,000-ton Steamers. Cabines-de-'uxe ; State-rooms, with
bedsteads; Single Berth Room'', Private Bathrooms;
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Sailing every fortnight from BRISBANE. SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Eta.,
12 Martin Place, Sydnet.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
jjank of |)orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370.000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE,
J. MACKENZIE LEES, Genernl Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J V. CANNY.
I ,ooal Director:
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Philp&Oo., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 4 QUEEN VICTORIA STREET, E.C.
Manager: R. R. LOVE.
Bankers: THE LONDON COUNTY & WESTMINSTER
BANK LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Bank nf Ham Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
Total Capital Paid-up £2.000,000
Uncalled Capital £500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits £864,134
GRANTS DRAFTS
and Irelahd, and other places.
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great JSritain
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Jlankinir hiisiness.
THE
Australian Bank nf Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL - - - £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,197,127
PAID-UP (31st December, 1910) - - £1,145,933
HEAD OFFICE—George and King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE—2 King William Street, EC.
DIRECTORS—Sir William P. Manning, Kt., Chairman ;
George. J. Sly, Esq., LL.D.; Ciias. H. Myles, Esq. ;
Mark Siieldon, Esq. ; Arthur S. Barton, Esq.; Frank
N. Yarwood, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the world.
A. P. STEWART, General Manager.
The ...
Queensland National Bank,
Limited
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 413,484 8 10
Reserve (in Gov. Stock) 94,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock . 3,091,669 4 5
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 Specially Protected.
Directors: JAS. MILNE, Esq., Chairman; JAMES
MUNRO, Esq. ; Hon. A. J. OALLAN, Esq., M.L.C. ;
JOHN CAMERON, Esq. ; F. LORD, Esq.
General Manager— W. V. RALSTON.
Branches—London, Sydney & throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up £519,237 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. .. 161,384 0 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) .. 75,500 0 0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE. -
Gen. Mngr.: Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
The Colonial fljutual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
.Mutual File Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
V without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
41&A 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accihuulated Funds. £3,000,000.
Policies Issued 116.154—Assuring £33,888,510.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,727.264.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
t ravelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Walks:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hoi. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Shipping.
REDUCED FARES
To EUROPE
BY
Nord D
FARES TO LONDON.
SINGLE .. 1., £O6 11., £3B 10s. 111., £l5 to £l7
RETURN.. 1., 99 11., 57 15s. 111., 27 to 30 12s
PASSENGERS hooked to Egypt, Naples,
Genoa, Algiers, Marseilles, Gibraltar,
London, Antwerp, and Bremen.
w Fitted with “ Wireless ” installation.
* Arriving in London in good time for the Coronation.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
REGULAR FOUR - WEEKLY MAIL
SERVICE from Sydney and Brisbane, via
New Guinea, by Twin-screw Steamers.
For Passage and Full Particulars apply to —
LOHMANN & CO., General Agents,
7 & 9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
mHE BULLETIN POST CARDS-New
X Series. IV., V.. V|. Packet of Twelve,
6d. ; Packet of Ten, sd. . Forwarded Post Free
to any address. %
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN, PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
ĵgfj
Twin-screw Steamers.
AFRIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
Miirch 18.
SUBI/IC, 12,500 tons, to sail about
April 13.
PERSIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
May 10.
RUNIC and MEDIC to follow.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy and
Submarine Signalling Apparatus.
Only One Class of Accommodation.
FA RES—Capetown or Durban *l5 15 0 do £34 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 Co 30 0 0
Melbourne . .. .. 1 10 0
New York, Boston, Quebec,
Montreal, &c. from 35 0 0
Pamphlets and all other information on application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
DALGETY & COMPANY, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
TH€ »B€RD€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth and
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLINC AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
h Call- Hobart. Fitted Wireless Telegraphy.
FARMS— Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £57 .. £l6 Os to £2O 08.
Cape or Durban .. From £3l 109.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
P. & O. Branch Service.
Special Return Tickets available for outward passage
by Orient Line—£ll2 (First-class each way); £B5
(Second-class Orient).
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 I Os.
SALOON Cabins on upper and bridye decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the hiirhest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, ■fee., on application.
DALCETY & COMPANY, LTD., Airents in Australia.
fj
HOLIDAY CRUISES <
to Papua and the Pacific islands.
To Papua, via Brisbane, Cairns Return £2O
April 21, June 2. (five weeks’ round trip)
To Solomon Islands Return £2O
April 7, May 19. (five weeks’ round trip)
To Lord Howe Island, Norfolk Island and
New Hebrides (seven weeks’ trip) Return £25
First of every month.
Send for illustrated descriptive pamphlet, describing these
and other delightful Holiday Trips, from £lO upwards.
BURNS, PH/LP & CO., Ltd., 11 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES,
HEAD OFFICE; MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
MONEY TO LEND
To Farmers and Settlers from £5O to £2OOO,
repayable by instalments extendirijr over 30 years
with right to repay loan without penalty.
Partial repayments on fa\orable terms.
Low rates of interest.
Valuation Fees on lowest scale.
On Investment up to £25,C00 for fixed terms not
exceeding five years. Interest payable half-yearly.
Right to repay ona-fifth of principal each year
allowed.
Sssurity offered must consist of Freehold Land.
Lowest current rates of interest.
Full particulars and forms of application for loans obtainable at any Branch or Post
Crown Lands Aaents and at the Head Office, MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
Office Ajrency, or from
J. 11. Daviks, Secretary.
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
£2,817,660
£1,872,685
£2,817,660
£7,508,015
DIRECTORS:
The Hon. O. K. MacKellar, M.D.C., President.
Senator Tlie Hon. James Thomas Walker.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M,L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.O.
Auditors: Alfred George, Milso'ti, Esq. ; William Harrington Palmer, K»q.
Head Office—George St., Sydney, London Office—64 Old Broad St., E.C.
With 319 Branches in all the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji and Papua (New South Wales 159, Victoria 37,
Queensland 47, South Australia 5, West Australia 11, New Zealand 54, Fiji 3, Papua 2, London 1); and
Agents and Correspondents throughout Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India, China, Japan, and
the East, Africa, Canada, the United States, South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
Cable remittances made to, and Drafts drffwri on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Hills negotiated and
collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
' 'N j J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
FURS, Curios, Shells & Opals
The Largest Store in Australasia.
Established 1860.
Tost & Rohu,
Taxidermists, Furriers, Tanners
and Island Curia Dealers,
10, 12 & 14 MOORE STREET, Opp. C.P.0.,
SYDNEY. 0 ntral 2196.
And 605 CEORCE ST., SYDNEY. City 2374.
All Purchasks Packed Free and Labelled.
Large Showrooms and Museum, containing thousands of
Australian Souvenirs. Inspection invited.
Returning Boomerangs from 1/6 each. Carved Emu Eggs,
4/6 each. Kative Grass Dresses, 4/6. Bow and Six Arrows,
2/6 the set. Spears, Clubs, Idols, Kava and Food Bowls,
Shields, Masks, Stone Axes, Bark Belts, Tappa and Matting.
Bet Snakes, 20/- Snake Skin Ties and Watch Guards, 2/- each ;
Snake Skin Belts and Braces, 7/6; Slippers, 12/6 ; Boots,
£l/2/6 per pair. Skins made up into Ladies’ Furs, Mats,
Rugs and Foot Warmers.
Stuffed Birds and Animals in Large Variety.
Collections of Genuine Curios from £3.
THE TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS
* AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Collins>Bt., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUNL>(lnvestedin Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £37,500 0 0
Directors : R. Murray Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Chaimum ;
John Grice, Esq., Vice-Chairman ; Hon. J. M. Pratt; J. U.
MacFarland, Esq., M.A., LL.D. ; Alexander M'Cracken.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
2
msm
r DIURETIO 1
MDM&BMDDEft
REMEDY
A CORRECTIVE
OF THE
OR I NARY
ORGANS
m
IT IS
ALSO A
SPLENDID
TOM IC
Obtainable an Chemists
ffiMS
aii«
THE OCEAN
Accident & Guarantee
Corporation Limited,
Ocean House, 22 Moore Street, Sydney.
I7IIRE. ACCIDENT, WORKMEN’S COM-
-1 PENSATION, PITI3LIC RISK, BUR-
GLARY and PLATE GLASS INSURANCES
at Lowest Rates.
RHEUMATISM
m
i
Packets, 3d., 6d. and Is.
[2a
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Quaaisland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE >
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping: at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
GERALDTON (W.A.)
S.S. Kanowna, April 1 and
April 29
(To Fremantle without
transhipment), coi meet-
in? with Koo u than a
in Fremantle forNortii
West Ports.
BRISBANE
MAOIiAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Pores North to Oiirns.
S.S. Yonjrala, March 18.
S.S. Innamincka, March 25
Best and Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
To VANCOUVER, via BRISBANE,
FIJI, and HONOLULU, thence
by Rail to any part of CANADA
or UNITED STATES.
The Best Route to Europe.
SAILINGS :
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Illustrated Pamphlets Free on Application.
Agents throughout Canada, United States
and Europe—Canadian Pacific Railway Co.
For full particulars apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
.Managing Agents, 259 George-street, Sydney.
F.— n.—s.
Federal-Houlder-Shire Lines.
For London and Liverpool
Via SUEZ CANAL.
T.S.S. “ESSEX,”
11.300 Tons. T. Piilskb, Commander
Will be despatched from BRISBANE - about iiOih Mar.
~ ~ ~ SYDNEY - - ~ sth April
„ „ „ MELBOURNE „ 9th April
i, ~ ~ HOBART- - ~ 14th April
„ „ ~ ADELAIDE - „ 20th April
The saloon accommodation consists of all two-berth
cabins on the upper deck, situated amidships.
The superior third-class accommodation, comprised of
two, four and eight-berth cabins, situated on the main
deck, amidships, with dining room on the upper deck.
Well lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious decks.
Third-class passengers supplied with fresh provisions
from cool chamber throughout the voyage. Siirgeon and
■Stewardess carried. Electric light throughout. Return
and Round Trip tickets issued via Cape and (or) Suez
routes. Prepaid passages arranged.
FARES— Saloon. Third Class.
LIVERPOOL 1 . | £49 10s ’ £IS 13s ■ £l5 15s. L. 17 17s.
Steerage fares from Brisbane One Guinea extra.
To be followed at regular four-weekly intervals by fast
twin-screw passenger steamers. For further information,
illustrated hooks, pamphlets, etc., apply to
BIRT & CO., Ltd., Svdnev and Brisbane ;
lb .7ONES & CO.. Ltd., liohart;
MoILWRAITH, McEACHARN & Co., Ltd., Melbourne;
ELDER. SMITH & Co.. Ltd.. Adelaide.
Millars’ Karri S Jarrah
Co. (1902), Ltd.
We Supply—
JARRAH Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’ Scant-
ling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
72 BISHOPSGATE STREET WITHIN,
LONDON’, E.O.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
6S£ PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world
•"BRANDTS
Atmos li tp
Gas Machine,
m
Vi
Air-Gas
Machine —
For Lighting and Cooking.
Send for Catalogue.
BRANDT BROS., LTD.,
L tmphotise,;
236 Pitt St., Sydney; also
Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
For Sale.
c
HEAP,Second-Hand 15BreakH.P.
TANG YE GAS ENGINE,
IN GOOD ORDER.
Apply Manager, “ BULLETIN ” OFFICE,
214 George Street, Sydney.
THE Australian Magazine. THE LONE
HAND, the National Monthly. Price 6d,


* EORGE H OTEL,
j St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
HOTEL
CECIL
(LONDON).
(jj The largest and.
most magnificent
Hotel in Europe.
(11 Intending visitors
to the CORONATION
should book their
rooms early.
Cable Address: “CECELIA, LONDON.'’
tariff Booklet gratis
at office of this paper.
FROM SOUTH AFRICA
gf
TWO TIPS with
OSPREY.
Black, White,
Cream, and Black
ipped with White
Length, 9 inches.
5 The Bunch,
/ " Post Free.
We make this Special Offer to
advertise our Ostrich Tips. Write
to-day. Send Postal Note.
Catalogue Free.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY; also at
Corner of Bourkeand Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention The Bulletin.] [3
The Elite
Eau de Cologne
IS
EaudeColognli'lll
lIUIIIII I|:HJ I 111 iI ■ 11. i. ill ■ I ■ 11' 11. ■ll■ H M i Pll11 '■ 11 • I |||M ,l|||||mlllllllNM^^
FIDELITAS
WMzJFrwBR
F.WOLFF& SohnU
Karlsruhe
Baden
lii
Triumph of
Modem Science
Obtainable from all leading establishments
£1573| 18 j 9
at a penny a smile, the easli value
Hr. The Wayback Series,
MEDLOW BATH, Blue Mountains, N.S.W.
majestic hotel.
COMPLETE arrangements have been made by the new proprietor (Mr. W. H. Burgess), late of the Grand
C Hotel, Melbourne, for the comfort of visitors during the forthcoming season.
t, J, o ;o an The crisp mountain air is a delight, and the mountains, in their
Spring- garh, appeal to' loven of the picturesque. Arrangements can be made at the Hotel -for motors,
tarr Motor a partie d s n (L to be rS arranged any time to start from the City Offioe-or your own residence-direct
to the Majestic Hotel. . _..... . . , ,
To pedestrians Medlow offers ever-varying attractions. The views in the mountains are super!., and
hours can be spent in walks through the Hotel groune s *
Hot-air pipes are laid in many rooms. Daily Motor trips are made from the Hotel to Jenolnn Caves.
Further particulars can be obtained from the Hotel, or from the Sydney Offices, 42 Castlereagh Street.
W. H. BURGESS, Proprietor.
TASMANIA FOR TOURISTS !
Temperature mild ; Atmosphere exhilarating ; Scenery magnificent. Tourists splendidly
looked after by the well-organised Tourist Association.
Highfield Hotel, Hobart.
The Leading Hotel—the Fashionable Resort of Tourists. Lavishly Furnished; Excellent
Attendance • First-class Cuisine; Kosher Meat; Telephone; Electric Light; Select Billiard
Room, etc. Central Situation; close to River, Rail, Trains, G.P.0.. Tourist Bureau, etc.
Rooms now being booked for coming season. Early application requested.
S. H. MCDONALD, Manager, Highfield Hotel, Hobart, Tasmania.
ƒ
SCIENCE
behind it !
PEBECO is a complete scientific health
course for the mouth and teeth.
F Its alkaline properties correct the acidity ol
" the saliva, prevent bacterial inroadf, upon the
teeth and deodorise the breath. Pebeco imparts
a pearly whiteness, arrests decay, removes tartar,
and, by invigorating the tissues, remedies shrink-
ing gums.
PEBECO
TootK Paste
L
la highly antiseptic, and, if regularly used, pre-
vents many diseases of the mouth and throat.
Of all Chemists, etc.
SOLB AGENT —
0 ARNOLD, 6 O'Connell St., Sydney.
(Wholesale only.)
fjgf
VERY WOMAN KNOWS
she ought to have an ONOTO PEN
—the safe ready-to-write fountain pen
most men carry.
It is easy to write with, safe and clean to
use—the pen that FILLS itself from any ink
supply, and CANNOT LEAK——that L cleans
itself in filling.
For your own use/and for presents, buy the
jfgj
Self-Fining . -
Safety Fountain
jgf
Price 12/* and upwards at all stationer*,
stores, jewellers, etc.
British made by British labour.
Booklet about the Onoto Pen free on
application to
Trios. De La Rue & Co., Ltd.,
376 Bunhill Row, E.C.,
or the Australasian Representative,
Norman Baker, 60 York St., Sydney.
Important. —For those who require a.
larger pen with a very flexible nib, a.
special model —the new G—has been,
put on the market. It is exceptional
value for the money. Try this new G
at your stationers. ” *
Also ask him for Oncto Ink—the beot
for fountain and ail other pens.
/A
m
gfj
fgj
sfpt
PATRONAGE.
UNDER VICE-REGAL
Tkn M.HOOOO lesa€ti*G
5
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair-
workers & Dermatologists,
161 KING STREET, SYDNEY, between Elizabeth & Castlereapfh Streets.
Transformations from £4/4/- Tails from 7/S. Puffs fr°m 25/- set Fringes from 7/ .
Telephone 213 S Central. COMbINGS MADE UP.
* -Coiiiitrv-orders receive wompt attention.
WAVERIEY FOUNTAIN PENS
fgj
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE
i: FREE
DIFFER FROM ALL OTHERS B/ REASON OF
THE ELASTICITY AND PERFECTION OF THE
GOLD WAVERLEY NIB, IT DOES NOT TIRE THE
HAND AS DO THE STUBBORN LIFELESS NIBS
IN ORDINARY FOUNTAIN PENS. THE FLOW OF
INK IS FAULTLESS. ::
; SOLD BY ;
STATIONERS
AND
; DEALERS :
Wholesale Agent: ROBERT HUTTON, 321 flinders Lane, Melbourne
THROW AWAY YOUR PIPE
AND
SMOKE MY CIGARS
OMSK,
I’VE knocked around a bit over Australasia in
my time —been in the back parts of pretty
well every State and New Zealand.
I've mixed with shearers and musterers and
rouseabouts at different sheds; been at cattle
camps in Queensland; up among the snow
country of Moriaro ■ in the jarrah forests of
Westralia; in mining camps all over the Com-
monwealth ; and everywhere I ve seen the boys
smoking their pipes—and seldom a sign of a
Cigar.
Then, I've pulled out my case and handed
some DIADEMAS around. And after all this,
people say to me—“Oh, Australians won't smoke
Cigars 1”
I do just get riled when I
hear this, I tell you that
nearly every pipe-smoker,
once he gets the taste of my
DIADEMAS Cigars, swears
by them. They knock pipe-
smoking hollow!
There’s nothing but To-
bacco in them —and the best
Cigar Tobacco that is grown
—the wrapper, finest Java
leaf; and the inside filling,
all clean, straight,long Brazil.
They draw easily and burn
freely, for they are hand-
rolled by as good Cigar-
makers as there are any-
where in the world.
The boys out-back I've
given them to, as I said, just
swear by my Cigars, Men
in the Cigar trade here, too
—men with whom Cigar-
smoking is a life habit —come
to me and say —“ Look here,
those Cigars of yours are
better than any we can get
in the city. Let us have a
box as a favor.”
Now, I want you to try
my Cigars —at my ex-
pense. £
I want to convert you from
the pipe to Cigars—to my
Cigars. All I want is for you
to buy my Cigars as against
your pipe and favorite to-
bacco—and I know you'll be
a regular customer of mine.
I'll post a box of ioo DIADEMAS right to
your address for 22/6. Smoke 5 or 6of them,
and if they’re not as good as the best 6J. Cigar
you can buy send the rest of the Cigars back,
and I’ll return every penny of your money. I'll
make no deduction for the Cigars you’ve smoked
There’s no funny business about this offer,
mind. I’ll keep to every word of it, and there’ll
be no “back answers” if you want your money
back. If you want to know the kind of man
you’re dealing with, write to the General
Manager, the Commercial Bank, Melbourne,
and he’ll tell you I’m a clean, straight chap in .all
my dealings.
Send 22/6 to-day, and get the box of 100
DIADEMAS by return post. In ordering, say
whether you like the mild, medium, or strong
grade.
My Only Address is
LOUIS KAUFFMANN
34 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE
Illustrated Descriptive Booklet will be
Mailed Free to any address.
fgj
A HUGE SUCCESS!
Custard
$
Custard wimSruit
The delicious Fruits of New South
Wales, When stewed, form an exquisite
Dish with BIRD'S CUSTARD, served
either hot or cold. Most popular with
L Adults and the Youthful alike.


PIKE BROTHERS, LIMITED
THE “ CRUSH.
The “CRUSH.”
The hat of individuality. Distinguished in
Style and Quality. Adjusts itself. Fits any
shaped head. Brim can be adapted to any
stvle. Will fold without injury.
12/6
Stocked in Fawns, Cuba and Greys.
In ordering, kindly state size of hat usually worn.
BRISBANE, Townsville, Toowoomba and London
HOTEL DAN I ELL
(Late Imperial), Brisbane, Queensland.
AND ROYAL HOTEL,
Maryborough, Queensland.
A Home for Commercials and Others. - ®®
Missing: Friends.
Bennett, Robert ernest,
native of Maryborough, Queensland. Tall
and muscular ; last heard of at Mount Chalmers
Copper Mine, near Rockhampton, Queensland,
about July, 1907.
Wanted by his brother WILLIE,
Railway Department,
Gympie, Queensland.
IMPORTANT.
SHOULD this meet the eye of JAMES and
ALEXANDER WATSON, late of Cam-
busnethan, Larnarkshire, Scotland, they would
find it to their advantage to at once communicate
with their brother—Walter Gibb, 51 Campbell
Street, Wishaw, Scotland. James was at Joadja
Creek, Mittagong, New South Wales, Australia,
and later at Outtram Korumburrah, South Gipps-
land. Anyone knowing their present address
by sending this advertisement to them would be
doing a great favor to them and the advertiser —
WALTER GIBB, 51 Campbell Street, Wishaw,
Scotland.
BROWN. —Wanted known the whereabouts
of HERBERT BROWN, son of Peter
Gustaf Brown, of Maryborough, Queensland,
master mariner, deceased. Please communicate
with Queensland Trustees, Limited, Brisbane.
fgj
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BY
APPOINTMENT
fgj
TO
H.M. THE KING.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrubb & Co. on each Bottle.
fgj
IN BANANA LAND
After all, Wullie Kidston will not go
Forwards to supervise the floating of Banana-
land’s big loan. His nose is to be kept to the
Land Court grindstone.
“ P.” : Dengue is raging in Queensland.
It is well known that the mosquito is the chief
carrier of the disease; but not a single local
authority attempts to wipe out the insect scourge.
Surely Townsville, with its Tropical Diseases in-
stitute, might do something. Port Said, the very
cradle and home of dengue in “ the East,” has
been absolutely free of the curse since 1906, when
a local crusade exterminated the mosquito.
The Brisbane police, who control the city
traffic, used to be very busy preventing the over-
crowding of the trams. But the other day the
Government instructed John Hop to leave the
trams alone, evidently on the ground that if the
public overcrowded the trams it was the public’s
own fault. The Government didn’t say a word
about the duty of the co. to put on enough trams
to carry the people without overcrowding. It
might have offended a Tory supporter if it had
talked like that.
“C.S.A.” J. Dick, member of a recent
prospecting party in “The Peninsula,” found
the following trifles lying round loose within
siren-hail of a main trade route, and not too far
from some scores of millions of land-hungry semi-
starved Asiatics : Hundreds of square miles of
first-class sugar-land, naturally drained, abun-
dantly watered, and ready for the plough;
together with good harborage, and easy access to
the rich pastoral, mineral, and valuable timber
tracts of the hinterland. Land of this descrip-
tion, with a sugar-mill handy, is worth anything
up to £5O per acre. If Kink O’Malley were
turned loose here, with unlimited cash and some
Heaven-sent inspirations, things would hum.
“ Whipcord ” on a dispute that will never
end: —
“ Politicus ” (B 2/3/’ll) condemns the State Labor
party’s attitude on immigration, and asserts that the
thousands of immigrants who “ have arrived in Banana-
land during the last two years have been absorbed.” It
all depends on what he calls “ absorbed.” If he means
hanging round Brisbane, vainly looking for work, until
their money is gone, and then putting blue.v up and
tramping the roads, they have been “ absorbed ’’all right.
If he means sending them out to jobs and sacking an
equal number of Australians, he is again right. But to
my mind “absorbing” immigrants doesn’t mean these
things. I’ll defy “Politicus” to travel the country
tracks of Queensland and go a day without meeting
“ehummies” with their swags up; and they all
tell the same story: “Landed with little money and
could get no work.” I’ll also guarantee to take him to
many jobs and leave him to find out what happened
when the batch of “ehummies” came along. They’ll
tell him : “ Sacked a lot of men to make room for then’.”
If he had been at Cairns a few weeks ago he’d have met
some girls who were induced to leave an immigrant ship
by the promise of immediate employment. They were
given addresses at Atherton, and told to go there, as the
people had asked for girls ; but when they arrived they
were told, “ We didn’t send for anyone ; we are quite
satisfied.” Those girls had to find their way back to
Cairns, where they landed penniless—and a number of
people, hearing the facts of the case, collected a few
pounds for them. The Bananaland Labor party is not
against “white defenders” coming out. It welcomes
them, because it knows they are badly wanted. But
what it does object to is the bringing of them out under
false pretences; and it is “ false pretences ”to tell
them “ there is any amount of land available for imme-
diate occupation,” and “plenty of work for everyone.”
Last Saturday’s Courier contained a par to the effect
that a “ deputation of unemployed was going to wait on
Mr. Fisher.” Can,’t Queensland “ absorb ” these?
~ v
‘‘Kobbi”: That large yellow sapphire
recently mentioned by “Mario” has been re-cut
and reduced from 59 carats to 42. It was found
by old-man Dick Pullen, at Sapphire Town, who
disposed of it for £1 sterling (none of it spilt, I
hope). The buyer re-sold it for £5. It is now
valued by its gem-cutter proprietors at £4OO.
“To each man .... the legitimate fruits of his
industry ” —I don’t think.
“ Bill the Goose ” goes travelling : —-
The casualness of the Queensland railways excites my
admiration. Had occasion to make a trip to Longreach
a while back, and, as a start, hied me to the Central
Station on a wet Tuesday evening l in time to catch the
rattling machine which left there at 10.30 p.m. We
reached Rockhampton next evening 2J hours late, and
were told we should have to wait in the City of Nine-
penny Whiskies until the following evening, as
the mail trains were not run to connect. We even-
tually got to Longreach another couple of hours late.
The chief occupation of travellers is a study of the other
occupants (some human) and the railway time-tables.
On page 112 (of the time-table) the quick services are
advertised. Page 110 informs you that “colonial beer” is
Is. 6d. per bottle at refreshment rooms. On page 115 the
public is warned that it must not, on any account, travel
on the roof of a train. I didn’t understand for a while
why the Commissioner was so careful to insist that, what-
ever happened, we mustn’t get on the roof. Still,
wouldn’t it be better to fumigate the carriages than hold
this £lO fine over our heads?
ANOTHER TYRED AUSTRALIAN.
SYMPATHETIC AUSTRALIAN (to much-battered cyclist): “'Alio; 'ad a smash?”
CYNICAL CYCLIST (spitting out another tooth): “ No! Oh, no! Merely resting!"
Geraldton is in the dumps. For the month
of February that town failed to score the cus-
tomary yard of rainfall, securing only 35J inches.
Residents say all indications point to a drought.
Like Townsville, Rockhampton is now
represented in the Bananaland Assembly by a
Ministerialist and a Laborite. Of the other two-
men electorates, Brisbane North, Brisbane South,
Toowoomba and Drayton, Maryborough and
Mackay are each represented by two Government
supporters, Gympie and Charters Towers by two
Laborites, and Ipswich by a Laborite and an
Independent.
“ Nisa Orga ” : “ Leo Lear ” (B. 26/1/T1)
broke new ground that needed breaking in this
“living white” controversy. “Bromide” talks
of staying at white-cook pubs. Well, a cook
isn’t the whole show. I presume they have fruit
and vegetables at these places. If so, where do
they get them ? Not from white men, I’ll gamble.
There’s not a white man growing vegetables up
this northern way, for the simple reason that
mean beer-sellers choose to purchase from the
cheap Chow in preference to giving men of their
own color a decent price. Then, again, take the
retail fruit business and Townsville as an ex-
ample. Population about 19,000, and only three
white fruit shops ! Every fruit shop in the main
street occupied by aliens ! Then there are the
laundries —but why go on? The plain truth is
that the North is infested with the discolored
brood, and it’s the white worker who keeps them
going, and talks about a White Australia while
he does it. Some day I expect to hear of him
buying a gallon of tar when he wants to do some
whitewashing.
Song of the Sleek.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I SAT in the kirk-pew one day—
The portly were well to the fore ;
The sermon came on and they slept;
And sometimes they rose to a snore.
I gazed on their trappings so fine,
Their gorge and their eminent girth,
And the parson, I fancied, broke in with the line :
“The Sleek shall inherit the Earth ! ”
Of course, I’m aware I was wrong,
The Book has the text otherwise ;
And such an amazing misquote
Must have come from the Father of Lies.
And yet when I look for the meek
And notice their manifold dearth,
I murmur again at the end of the week :
“ The Sleek do inherit the Earth ! ”
Whoe’er in this world hath a care
For them who are hungry and sad ?
The parson himself smileth down
On raiment that’s spotless and glad.
In whispers we send round the word—
“ Ten thousand Old Portly is worth !”
Oh ! ’Twas not a phantasy quaint that I heard—
“ The Sleek do inherit the Earth 1 ”
Yea ! Earth is the birthright of them—
Its fatness, its corn and its wine ;
And we, who are Meagre, look on
And plaintively wail and repine.
But whether we ponder in gloom
Or pass on in cynical mirth
This Truth is a Truth till the Dropping of Doom
“The Sleek do inherit the Earth 1”
QUEENSLAND.
F.B.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane. March 11, 1911.
My Dear Thargomindah,—
The Maegreegor clan is no’ keeping an Eight-
’Oor Day, and, though I hate to say it, the lady
particularly shows signs of ignoring all the wise
regulations to that end. With the Scarlett aide
in attendance, the Macgregors have spent a busy
week in the Downs, opening agricultural shows
and other jamborees; and no sooner had they
returned to Brisbane than they were turning the
churn of eloquence for the benefit of a creche and
kindergarten. Vice-regal Mary, junior, is prick-
ing her fair fingers embroidering penwipers or
shaving tidies and other curiosities to help the
good cause.
Much of the Cabinet’s better half and high
officialdom’s womenfolk engineered a jumble sale
fur the aforementioned charity, t’other day, and
one new helper was our ornamental Mayoress.
“New ’ere?” genially asked a lydv customer (or
should I say client?). The Mayoress admitted
that it was her first appearance. “Thought so,”
said the lydy. “I’ve generally been served by
that yeller-’aired piece over there,” nodding com-
placently in the direction of one of the Highest.
The passing of J. T., or “Joey,” Bell, the
Speaker of the Assembly, has gloomed political
circles. Posthumous praise is too often showered
on the unjust as well as the just; but Joey’s
unique personality, his keen sense of justice and
saving sense of humor, and even his mannerisms,
endeared him to political enemy equally with per-
sonal friend. He married Mrs. Sydney Jones, a
daughter of the late John Ferguson, of Mount
Morgan, and leaves a young son and daughter.
We have lost for the time being our pretty
Consuless, Mrs. Grout, who will depart per
Otranto for the turbulent land represented by her
husband, where Alfonso, his boss, keeps one eye
on the bomb industry and another on the fire-
escape. The lady went ahead to Melbourne to
pick up a frock or two calculated to attract one of
Alf’s eyes at least, if only for lOsec.
The servant problem is acute enough in
Queensland, goodness knows, but it seems to
have reached a far more' acute stage in your sec-
tion of the continent. A pal writes me that the
other day she went to afternoon tea in one of
your suburbs and found herself eating cake con-
structed by the King of the Loyalty Islands. Up
to date Royalty hasn’t strayed into the Brisbane
kitchen; but in these revolutionary times there is
no saying when the few who are ieft in the pro-
fession or trade will be out of graft and glad to
get a job anywhere. Manoel, late of Portugal,
for instance, ought to be a good cook. He is
something of a specialist in tarts, from what I
hear.
The clan Stewart-Brown has returned to Indoo-
roopilly after a year’s absence in the Jewknighted
Kingdom. None of them look any the worse for
their share of Fog, Freetrade and other calamities;
which helps to confirm the story that the clan has
inherited a sizable parcel of soil under the will of
a thoughtful uncle or considerate aunt. A good
legacy maketh a glad heart.
Mrs. John Thorn, with daughter Evelyn and
quite a host of others, departed by the Otranto on
Wednesday. The Thorns will be in Sydney for a
while, where Miss Evelyn Taylor, of Bellevue,
will join them later.
The Collins girls are also packing their boxes
at Tamrookum, ready for your Easter outbreak of
hav-whiskers, Hereford ewes and other gaieties
common to the season.
Mrs. George Perry also proposes to precipitate
herself into Sydney, and, if she doesn’t change
her mind in the meantime, should be with you
simultaneously with this warning. She will
descend upon the city from the fastness of the
Innes-Noad fortress at Darling Point.
The tall Murray family is moving south, and
will sample sunny N. S. Wales in one of Sydney’s
suburbs—preferably one that is not under water to
the balcony. If the climate does not suit, the
trek will be resumed.
Mrs. J. T. M. Bell, the chatelaine of Coochin
Station, and her two chicks, who have been
demonstrating to the English and the Continentals
that Australians are not all dressed in the skinofa
boomerang, are home again. Son Victor, daughter
Una and a few cronies formed a welcoming party
at which Dr. Eric Molle, whose engagement to
one of the younger Misses Bell dates from before
the journey, was much in evidence.
We have just discovered that Miss Enid du
Cane has been appointed a lady-in-waiting to
Princess Christian, whereat we are gratified and
pleased. During her stay with cousin Chelmsford
at our Government shack, her quiet and charming
manner and unfailing tact made her a general
favorite. The Christian Princess can take it that
the appointment has the entire approval of Bris-
bane society.
Mrs. Eric Anning, who has been spending the
summer in Brisbane, has returned to that corner
of the northern Never-Never where hubby makes
the pin money. Her departure has been the excuse
for an orgy of tea-drinking, Mrs. A. A. Smith,
Mrs. Iliff and Miss Thompson hostessing the
gatherings.
Pretty Rose Jardine goes hence this month.
Edith White and Flo Holmes, of Toowong, and
Elaine Feez preceded her ; but, in exchange, Fog-
land passes back the Benbows, mother and
daughter, Edith Dickson, Margaret Anderson
and a few others.
A learned debate has started about our Glass-
house Mountains, known to every passenger on
every boat that winds its way into Brisbane. The
general idea was that Capt. Cook fancied they
were like the common or garden variety of glass-
house ; but a learned local person named Owen
says that near Cook’s birthplace there are
“houes” or “haughs,” ancient burial places
(Webster calls them plain “holes”), and one of
them was the Glaslioue —and that looks pretty
convincing.
Talking in Brisbane the other day, Hugh Ward
said that one of the probable results of his asso-
ciation with J. C. Williamson would be the in-
creased attention of the firm to the Northern
capital. Whereat Brisbane playgoers give three
cheers by way of encouragement.
Yours affectionately,
MARIO.


A BRIDGED PROSPECTUS .
Australian Marine Fibres Limited
(Registered under the Companies Acts N.S.W., 1899-1307).
CAPITAL £,165,000,
Divided into 060,000 Shares of ss. each,
of which
240 000 are now offered for public subscription at par, payable 6d. per share on application, 6d. on allotment, 6d. on Ist May, \9U f and Is. on
Jst July, \9\\ t to provide a cash working capital of £30,000 for the purposes hereinafter mentioned.
No further calls will be made until after 3fst October, 19 H.
JJO,OOO Shares will be held in reserve for future issue if required.
310,000 Fully Paid Shares will be allotted to the Marine Fibre Syndicate in full payment of the purchase consideration for the areas owned by
the Syndicate and for those to be taken through the Syndicate.
The Company will receive the areas at D'Estree Bay and those of the Adelaide holders for the consideration agreed to
be paid by the Syndicate for their acquisition.
660,000
The Vendors Take No Cash. 71,700 Shares Have Already Been Applied For.
Directors :
SENATOR LT.-COL. THE HON. SIR ALBERT GOULD.
THE HON. SIR LANCELOT STIRLING, K.C.M.G., M.L.C. (S. Aust.).
SIR JAMES GRAHAM, M.D.
WILLIAM D. WADE, FR.G.S. (London).
Bankers : CITY BANK OF SYDNEY.
Solicitors: GOULD & SHAW, 121 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Auditors: JOHNSON, JOHNSON & GIBB, George & Wynyard Streets, Sydney.
Brokers : SYDNEY—MELBOURNE—ADELAIDE—BRISBANE
MEMBERS OF RECOGNISED STOCK EXCHANGES.
Secretary and Registered Offices :
R. W. MASON-COX, A.1.A.V., MuLual Life Buildings,
George & Wynyard Streets, Sydney.
PROSPECTUS.
THIS Company has been formed for the purpose [inter alia) of acquiring and working Licenses
granted by the Government of South Australia for the purpose of obtaining and removing Fibre
from
(a) 6,720 acres (101; sq. miles) of the foreshore and land covered by sea, situated near Port
Broughton, Spencer’s Gulf, S.A.
(b) 3,840 ~ (6 sq. miles) of the foreshore and land covered by sea, situated in D’Estree
Bay, Kangaroo Island, S.A.
(c) 9,600 ~ (15 sq. miles) of the land covered by sea, situated near Port Broughton, S.A.
20,160 acres 3H sq. miles The term of the Licenses is for 21 years, of which in no case has
a year expired.
(d) An area of land for shore operations at Port Broughton, adjacent to the fibre areas.
Also to provide for the installation of dredges and other machinery to raise and prepare the fibre
for market.
MARINE FIBRE is the natural product of a marine plant, and is the result of the accumula-
tions of centuries.
The Port Broughton Areas are situated in a most central position, being between and
adjoining the valuable blocks acquired by Marine Fibres and Yarns Limited (a London Company
with a Capital of £400,000), and were secured after very keen competition by outsiders and the owners
of the adjoining properties.
A 5 square mile block, being’ Permit 371, adjoining on the South was sold to
a London Syndicate for £40,000 (£37,500 in Paid Up Shares and £2500 in
cash), the adjacent block of 1 square mile for £lO,OOO in cash and shares, and
some blocks to the North, known as the Melbourne Blocks, were purchased
by Marine Fibres and Yarns, Ltd., for a large sum.
OUTPUT AND ESTIMATE OF PROFITS.
Mr. J. Sheargold, the engineer who was sent to Port Broughton to examine and test the 10J sq.
miles area, reports, inter alia, as follows :
“ The fibre deposit is from 3 to 10 feet in thickness, averaging about 7 feet, and
is very dense. I took 30 tests on this block and found that the fibre ran through the
whole portion. My tests as to quantity per cubic foot were all made between high-
water mark and miles seaward, and these show an average of of clean, dry
fibre per cubic foot.
Note. —This area extends 3 miles seaward from high-water mark.
This works out at 1,372,000 tons of fibre in the IOJ square miles, but the basis
upon which the output and profits are estimated in this prospectus is only about
one-fifth of this yield.
Mr. G. F. Blombery, of Adelaide, S.A., having made exhaustive tests, gives 1,057,000 tons for
the 15 sq. miles.
It is estimated that the Company’s 25| sq. miles at Port Broughton will be found to
contain not less than 1,600,000 tons of marketable Fibre.
Colonel H. C. Stanley, M. Inst. C.E., Consulting Engineer to the Queensland Government, was
recently sent by the Syndicate to Port Broughton to examine the material to be treated, and make
investigations to enable him to advise as to the best type of machinery to be employed, etc.
As a basis of his estimates of costs, he assumed an average yield of 71b. to 101 b. of
fibre to the cubic yard, and estimated the output of three dredges, each of 10,000
cub. yds. actual capacity, at 6000 tons per annum, and the costs (including freight,
royalty to the South Australian Government, and all charges) at £ll 18s. 6d. per
ton of marketable fibre, and the profits £40,000 per annum.
Published estimates by the English Company’s engineer, Mr. L. Pitblado, M.1.M.M., who was
sent out from England to test the areas then held under option and since acquired by Marine Fibre
and Yarns, Ltd., London, give the aggregate output of the three dredges to be employed by them at
20,000 tons fibre per annum, and the costs per ton fibre delivered c.i.f. United Kingdom at
£5 10s., or say \d. to fd. per lb.
Mr. Pitblado had at this time the experience of the actual working of a grab dredge on the said
areas for a period of several months.
Taking the figures published in the prospectus of the English Company, with their minimum
estimated price for the fibre, and their maximum estimate of costs, showing a profit of only f d. per lb.,
the net profits on an output of 20,000 tons from three dredges will amount to
£140,000 per annum, an enormous return (over 100 per cent.) on the issued capital of this
Company, and although the London engineer’s estimates would appear to apply equally to this
Company, the Directors desire, for the purposes of this prospectus, to take the very conserva-
tive figures prepared by Col. Stanley, which show profits as above.
Colonel Stanley, in his report, states that he Has been careful not to under-estimate the cost, so as
to leave a safe margin against unforeseen expenditure.
Messrs. Chas. Ruwolt Prop., Ltd., the well-known dredge builders, have submitted tender for
the construction of a bucket dredge specially designed for raising and washing the Fibre.
Theoretical capacity, 23,000 cub. yds. per week of 130 hours.
Actual capacity (allowing for stoppages, etc.), 15,000 cub. yds. per week.
To cost not exceeding £10,900.
Mr. C. Ruwolt visited the Fibre areas at Port Broughton and investigated the local conditions
and the material to be treated.
Referring to the foregoing tender of Messrs. Ruwolt, received since Colonel Stanley’s Report,
and which is for a 15,000 cubic yard actual capacity dredge, the annual output of Fibre (3 dredges)
should amount to 8840 tons, and the profits:—
8840 tons at 2d. per lb., £lB 13s. 4d. per ton £165,013
Costs, including freight, royalty, administration, depreciation, and all
charges at £lO 12s. per ton 93,704
Net Annual Profit £71,309
Equal to nearly 52 per cent, on the issued capital:
Given sufficient dredging units, the output of fibre may be greatly increased.
Contracts can be made at satisfactory prices as soon as the Company is ready to give regular
deliveries.
Reliable information received from London brokers, textile manufacturers and
other sources goes to show that the market price will not be less than 2d. per lb.
(£lB 13s. 4d. per ton), and will probably be as much as 3d. per lb. (£2B per ton)
(vide reports).
Experiments carried out with the Marine Fibre, and extending over a long period, prove con-
clusively that it is a valuable marketable commodity, useful for numerous commercial purposes.
Woollen cloth manufacturers in England and Australia, having used the fibre
experimentally in their mills, report that it is admirably adapted for use in the
manufacture of cloth.
It can be spun into yarn, and used in union with wool (with the ordinary machinery now in
general use).
It will take any dye most readily, either vegetable or aniline.
It is unshrinkable, and is of very low inflammability, its charring point being 373 degrees
Fabr.
It is practically a non-conductor, and has double the length of staple of the longest staple
cotton.
It is peculiarly adapted for use in the upholstery trade.
These important points in its favor ensure for this fibre a great place in the world's markets.
ttt T he t ollowi,1 g letter has been received by the Syndicate from the proprietor of The Alfred
Woollen Mills, Williamstown, Victoria, dated 18th January, 1911.
Dear Sir , Alfred Woollen Mills, Williamstown, 1811/1911.
In reply to your enquiries, I have pleasure in informing you that I made successful tests of the
Marine Fibre at my Mills in September, 1908, in mixing the Fibre with both wool and shoddy, manu-
facturing therefrom both blankets and cloth. From further experiments made, I feel sure that crossbred
wool and fibre mixed in the proportions of 70 to 55 could be combed and spun into a worsted yarn,
; suitable for making worsted serges.
The Fibre takes the dye equally as well as the wool (which is very important in piece goods), and
this places a special value on the Fibre as a union with wool. I have examined the samples both of the
raw Fibre and the manufactured goods in the last few days, and in neither case is there any sign of
\ deterioration.
In my opinion the Fibre could be successfully used, not only in the making of blankets and worsted
serges already referred to, but also in many useful lines of textile fabrics, such, as Low Carpets (particu-
larly on account of its good dyeing properties, enabling the various shades to be brought out), Coir Mat
ting, Hessian, Bagging, and, I believe, Woolpacks. In fact, it is difficult to say to what uses, with
proper machinery, the Fibre could not be put.
With regard to value—l can see no reason to alter my opinion already expressed, that it should be
worth not less than Three Pence (3d.) per pound, and the finest grades even mone money.
Yours faithfully, WALTER GAUNT.
The Marine Fibre should be a boon to the Australian woolgrower for wool-
pa,cks. The Fibre readily takes the wool dyes, so that any stray particles of Fibre
will be unnoticed in the finished cloth.
.Recent tests at the Australian Woollen Mills, Ltd., Sydney, confirm the reports received from
England and Victoria as to the excellent dyeing qualities of the Marine Fibre with wool dyes.
Marine Fibre is not a competitor of wool, but a competitor of other fibres, now used for mixing
with wool, and as a union with low-grade wools would probably increase their uses and values.
Among numerous other purposes for which the fibre is suitable are the following
Matting Blankets
Low Carpets Bagging
Backings of Floorcloths Hessian
Backings of Linoleums Bedding and upholstery work, etc.
The low cost at which Marine Fibre can be raised and prepared for market will
enable it to take the place of other fibres now used for similar purposes.
The areas are well and conveniently situated for economical working, and are easily accessible by-
land and sea. There are practically no rocks or stones. The raising, washing, and drying of the
fibre present no engineering difficulties.
There is no expensive development of other preliminary work to be done. The fibre is easily and
cheaply raised by dredges ; it is already deglutinizcd by the process of nature, and after washing and
drying is practically ready for the manufacturer's use, thus saving the heavy expense of preparation for
market, necessary with fibres derived from other sources.
Estimates give the cost of the 3 dredges, complete with machinery, buildings, etc., and all
preliminary expenses, at £46,200.
It 4s proposed to sta,rt operations immediately with one dredge, and the necessary washing
and other machinery, which, together with shore buildings and jetty are estimated to cost £19,650.
After the first dredge has been working for a few months and the first consignments have been
marketed, it is intended to instal two more dredges and machinery, with any improvements which
may suggest themselves.
The London Company owning the adjoining properties to the N. and S. have been at work for
many months, and are now installing another dredge and plant of improved design, to enable them to
increase their output.
No cash being payable in respect of purchase consideration, the whole of the
moneys received from this issue will be available as working capital and for the
general purposes of the Company, subject only to the payment of preliminary and
promotion expenses. ,
The Directors will hold their qualification in Contributing Shares, and the other members of
the Marine Fibre Syndicate are also subscribing for Contributing Shares.
Subscribers of the present issue will have preferential rights of subscription at par for part of the
shares now held in reserve. An option certificate will be issued to each original allottee in respect of
such rights, to the extent of one share for every five shares allotted, the vendors having similar
preferential rights to subscribe at par for the balance of such shares.
Taking into consideration the enormous quantities of the fibre, the low costs of
production, and the ready market, there is combined in one enterprise the solidity of
a sound industrial concern with the immense possibilities of the most speculative
venture.
Samples of the Marine Fibre, also Yarn, Cloth, Blankets, etc., made of mixed fibre and wool,
together with full reports may be seen at the Registered Offices of the Company, George and
Wynyard Streets. *
Application will be made in due course for quotation on the official lists of the Sydney Mel-
bourne, Adelaide and Brisbane Stock Exchanges.
The usual brokerage will be paid on all applications received through members of the Stock
Exchange.
Among other reports received is a special one by Mr. E. J. Bickford (of Messrs. Marcus Clark
and Co., Ltd., Sydney), referring to the great value of the Fibre in the upholstery trade.
l>lans and Reports may be had on application at the Registered Offices
Mutual Life Buildings, George and Wynyard Streets, Sydney ; or from the Bankers or Brokers.
Copies of the contracts entered into may be inspected at the offices of the Solicitors to the
Company.
To the Directors of Australian Marine Fibres Limited,
Mutual Life Buildings, George and Wynyard Streets, Sydney.
Gentlemen,—l leg to enclose herewith the sum of £ : being a deposit of 6d.
per share payable on application, for Shares in the above Company. 1 hereby request
you to allot me that number of Shares, and I agree to accept such Shares, or any less number that
may be allotted to me, upon the terms of the Company's Prospectus and subject to the Memorandum
and Articles of Association of the Company; and I authorise you to place my name upon the
Register of Shareholders m respect of any Shares so allotted to me.
TO BE
WRITTEN
DISTINCTLY
'Name (in full)
Mr., Mrs., or Miss
Address
■ Occupation or description
Ordinary Signature
. Jbatc.
1911.
Subscribers in outlying districts should send applications and remittances by wire. List closes at an early date.


s
v:
jaMM
u
I
7/
m
a
p «figg
k
1
'
■ ■ l
m
i
I
wmmmmm a pfnp mmm «* v
...- Pi;.
W
%
mw
.....
i\ *
I
s ' - *' + f'sYl''??*'' %
IEBiB
■ - a
i a -' i
r
;•
If Hk
S ||V’ 'tr-4
«C2»J==£- i
8
♦' \
m
wamm
■■■
;i;:. V
M
m
REGULAR
111
:
and
in
■ a
nvi
S. i
*
m mb
asm
piY|TD
MmWRAITH, M?EACHARN &C? P TY L! D
OFFICES & ACENTS AT ALL PORTS


nOUSEHUIiTERS LOOK FOR TnAT NAME
WUNDERLICH
RTH appoin
RESIDENCE containing 9 rooms, jijsi com-
*pd and now ready for occupation, Wunderlich
lings in all rooms.
BRISBANE, four new VILLA residences just
completing in convenient suburb, b rooms,
idem appointments throughout. W under Men Art
etal ceilings. Wexford. Courier Ofhce
OBA
KJ. 8 roomed COTTAGE in nice locality,
U decorated, splendid order. Wunderlich
■' ilder. Mercury Office, Hobart.
t AUNCESTON. beautiful RESIDENCE in con-
venient locality. 10 rooms, recently re-decorated
fci fitted with Wu ‘ ’ ‘
>nes and Co., Launceston.
iderlich ceilings, moderate rent
cellent bathroom, all modern conveniences,
Wun.liTlich Art Mrtal ceiling. Phillips \
van ten
;wid
Cl
OSMAN, COTTAGE. 6 rooms, bathroom, all
conveniences, Wunderlich ceilings, X.Y.Z.,
ydney Telegraph, Sydney.
TZ ENSINGTON, semi-detatched Villa residence
containing 7 good Wunderlich ceilinged n r ‘ me
ell laid out garden. Marchant and CoT Oeor
T. HILDA. Queen Anne VILLA, in spin did
position, 6 large rooms, spacious ‘ '
Wuiulctlich ceilings. Landlord. Argus Office. Me
pAM BERWELL, detached brick COTTAGE, jus
4 completed, 7 rooms, wide hall, bath, Wnnderlich
■ letal Ceilings. Foxtons, Collins-st.. Melbourne.
ORTH ADELAIDE, comfortably appointed
RESIDENCE containing 9 rooms, just com-
•and now ready for occupation, Wnnderlich
all rooms.
KISBANE. four new VILLA residences just
completing in convenient suburb, 6 rooms,
nodernVappoimments throughout. Wunderlich Art
Metal ctwlings. Wexford. Courier Othce.
B
•i > yi
WV
8 roomed COTTAGE, in nice locality,
splendid order. Wnnderlich
lings. Wiilder, Mercury Office. Hobart.
AI'NCESyrON. beautiful RESIDENCE in con-
-* venient Nacality. 10rooms, recently re-decorated
id fitted withVWnnderliclp
in’eHand Co., \aunceston7
moderate rent
-4-
wl conveniences, Wunderlich ceilings. X.Y.Z
Sydney Telegraph, Sydney.
KENSINGTON, scmi-detatched Villa residenc
containing 7 good Wunderlich ceilinged room;
well laid out garden. Marchant and Co., George-si
*T. KILDA. Queen Anne VILLA, in splend
' position. 6 large rooms, spacious verand
'underlich ceilings. Landlord, Argus Office, M
CAM brick COTTAGE, ju
completed, 7 ro\ps, wide hall, bath, Wnnderlit
Art Metal Ceilings.
Foxtons,Collins-st., Melln
North Adelaides comfortably appoime
RESIDENCE combining 9 rooms, just con
pleted and now ready fol occupath
ceilings in all rooms. I
RISBANE, four new! VILLA residen
completing in convenient suburb,
modern appointments throughout. Winning
Metal ceilings. WexfordlCourier OfjT£
ttOBART, 8
roomed <m)TTAGE
four new VILLA residences just
Tng in convenient suburb, 6 rooms,
ntmonts throughout, Wunderlich
. Wexford, C</I>ricr Office.
in nice localii
HKT. 8 roomed CO I 1 AOb. in nice locain
spltndid order. Wnnderli
<®*®*™™ider, MercuJy Office, Hobart.
I AUNCES
J-* venien
md fitted
Co.. Launct
DEKTH. Gothic
~ cellent bath
A’underl
Hay st
v/tosman. cott*.\TTeJ 5
S-VI conveniences. Wnn.lci lich c
vdney Telegraph. Sydney.
ENSINGTON, semi-detatched
containing 7 good Wunderlich ,
veil laid out garden. Marchant ana
?T. HILDA. Queen Anne; VILLA, in
position, 6 large rooms, spacious
nderlich ceilings. Landlord. Argus r
'AMBER WELL, detached brick
completed. 7 rooms, wide hall,
rt Metal Ceilings. Foxtons
ORTH ADELAIDE, comfortably appoint
RESIDENCE containing 9 rooms, just con
leted and now rea«h/for occupation. Wunder!
lings in all
RISBANE. jtmir new VILLA 'residences j
in convenient suburb. 6 room
Modern appointments throughout. Wunderlich A
r letal ceilings. Wexford. Courier Office.
rOBART. 8 roomed COTTAGE, in nice localit.
h\ w(/l decorated, splendid order. Wunderlic!
Builder. Mercury Office, Hobart.
LAUNCESTON. beautiful RESIDENCE i
venient locality. 10 rooms, recently re-dect
ud fitted with Wunderlich ceilings, moderate re
ones and Co.. Launceston.
iERTH. Gothic COTTAGE, wide verandahs, ex,
celleni bathroom, all modern conveniences*
Vnnderlich Art Metal ceilings. Phillips and Co.
rOSMAN. COTTAGE, 6 rooms, bathroom, all
conveniences, Wunderlich ceilings. X.Y.Z
rdney Teletyfrh, SycTnev.
semi-detatched Villa resident
ged rooms
jeorge-st
lining 7 good Wunderlich ceilinge
it garden. Marchaiit and to., G
FI\KILDA. Queen Anne VILLA, in splendid
wr* position. 6 large rooms, spaqious vers
FViinderlich- Geilings. Landlord. Argus Office.
BERWELL. detached brick COTTAGE, j'
completed, 7 roofns, wide hall, bath, Wunderlie.
Mftal6
NORTH ADELAIDE, cotufortably appoin
RESIDENCE containing 9 rooms, j
plrted and now ready for occupation, Wnnderli
i all rooties.
»RISBANE. four new VILLA residences ju
completing in convenient suburb, 6 room
appointments throughout, Wunderlich A
■ilings. Wexford. Courier Office
fOBART, 8 roomed COTTAGE, in nic
well decorated, splendid order. Wunderlich;
•ilings. Builder. Mercury Office, Hobart
AUNCESTON, beautiful RESIDENCE
venient locality. 10 rooms, recently re-decorate
eilittgs, moderate ret
l fitted with Wund
flies and Co., Launceston
>ERTH<-’Gothic COTTAGE, wide verandahs, ex-
eiit bathroom, all modern convenience^
Vrlich Art Metal
Phillips and Co
DSMAN7 COTTAGE, 6 rooms, bathroom, all
conveniences. Wunderlich ceilings. X.Y Z.,
ey Telegraph, Sydney.,
ENSINGTON. semi-detatched Villa resident
containing 7 good Wunderlich cHlinged coom'
II laid out garden. Marchant ami Co.. George-st
T. HILDA. Queen Anne VILLA, in splendid*
1 position, 6 large rooms, spacious verandah,'
underlich ceilings. Landlord, Argus Office, Melb.j
completed, 7 rooms, wide hall, bath, Wnnderliclf
rt Metal Ceilings. Foxtons, Collins-st., Melbourne.
NORTH ADELAIDE, comfortably appointed
RESIDENCE containing 9 rooms, just coup
pleted and foe occupation, Wunderlich
Filings in jjJicfCoins.
AN E, four new VILLA residences jiis|
Pfompleting in convenient suburb, 0 room*,
odern appointments throughout. Wmub rlich Art
1 ceilings. Wexford, Courier Office. V
[OH ART, 8 roomed COTTAGE, in nice localu,,
well decorated, splendid order. Wunderlich
lings. Builder, Mercury Office, Hobart.
in coi^i
beautiful RESIDENCE ~
-Snient locality. 10 rooms, recently re-decorated
<\ fitted with Wunderlich ceilings, moderate rent
ties and Co.. Launceston.
e
EKTH. Gothic COTTAGE, wide verandahs, ex-
cellent bathroom, all modern conveniences,:
underlich Art Metal ceilings Phillips and^oj
conveniences, Wunderlich ceilings.
ydney Telegraph, Sydney'.
KENSINGTON, semi-detatched Villa residence
** containing 7 good Wunderlich ceilinged rooms.
•II laid out garden. Marchant and to. George-st.
k T. KILDA, Queen Anne VILLA, in splendid
position, C large rooms, spacious verandah,
Landlord, Argus Office, Melb.
V, lerlich Geijj
jPWPKffTTWELL, detached brick COTTAGE, just
completed, 7rooms, wide hall, bath, Wunderlich
in Metal Ceilings. Foxtons, Collins-st..-Melbourne.
ADELAIDE, comfortably appointed
wP RESIDENCE containing 9 rooms, just com-
ieted and now ready lor occupation, Wunderlich
in all rooms. J J
ANE, four /ew VILLA reside^Cs "jusjt
ompleting in Convenient suburb, *w roon
appointments throughout, Wunderlich
ford. CojjjfcMDffiyf
£)N, beautiful RESIDENCE in con
lityi 10 rloms. recently re-decoratrr
Innderlilh ceilings, moderate rejy
COTTAGE, wide verandahs, ex
afl modern conveniences
l *™ ki -“'Uings. Phillips -and Co
FTEd
WOBART, 8-roomed COTI AGE. in mce>
AT well decorated, splendid order, Wun
ceilings. Builder, Mercury Office, Hobart.
Anne- VIL L.& in splendid
rooms,'spacious verandah,
•ndlmd, Argus Office, Melb.
positio
Wunderlich cei
2 T AUNCESTON, beautiful RESIDENCE inco
* i- * venient locality. 10 room§t recently
f and fitted with Wunderlich filings, moderate rji
j Jones and — j "
brick COTTAGE, just
hall, bath, Wunderlich
|L?llins-st., Melbourne.
, in nice locality,
der; Wunderlich
Hobart!
»E. wide
othic COT
Wu
rated
.
ndahs, ex-
/eniences,
and Co.,
%
throom. all
5. •'X.Y.Z.,
eilinged
/gv-sl
Build
Office, Hoi)
ceilings.
wot
LAUNCESTON, be
venient locality. I
RESI
lendid
in s
anduh,
'
h V
nd fi
Melb.
' ™
E, just
ERTH. Gothic COT 1 AGE. w
cel lent bathroom, all tnodt
nderlich Art Metal ceilings H'
Cl •_ f • . t'
i < t'* « v* • 'WA
I\/fOSMAN, COTTAGE. (. ro,
IVi. Wnn.ln licli
SydncWTelegraph. Sydney.
%
SBA
ENSINGTON. se
K
fi
II laid
r v k -
,r^rV’.'-r M
wmi
pOSU
L*
CVMBKRWI
■Completed
tach
r f \
r. f i
plett
* k * ‘ V „ r ■ '{
t bath
,* * •
'A
und
OB ART, ST'S
well decora.
rgs. Builder.
&
ft
■
- ■
i ■ ■
J.; ■'' "■ /"y ' nx.C-..11i
i-
I
dah
Mell
’AGb
derlic
Melboui
Vunderlich Art Metal ceilings
Lay st. _
Itch
> st
justl
uns.H
AiJ
I
hit)
F. fl rooms, b&throom, all
Villa residence
:rlich ceiiimfhd rooms
n an<l*o)7. George-s
w rTirilTrnimffi . [mi VILLA, in splendid
brick COTTAGE, just
‘ : hall, bath, Wunderlich
Cpllins-st., Meibom
• : :■ V’: .J§E, comfortably appointed
9 rooms, just com,
Wnnder^Leh
..„LA residences just
-s —...venient suburb. 6 rooms,
fitments throughout, Wunderlich Art
Wexford, Courier Office
K'TT I BIoomed'COTTAGE, in nice locality,
well decorated, splendid order. Wunderlich
Builder, Mercury Office, Hobart
‘AUNCESTON, beautiful RESIDENCE
venient locality, 10 rooms, recently re-decoratcd
fitted wlih Wunderlich ceiiiUES. moderate rent
ind Co., Launceston
[ERTH, Gothic COTTAGE, wide
cellent bathroom, all modern conveniences
lerlich Art Metal ceilings.. Phillips and Co.
OSMAN, COTTAGE, 6 rooms, bathroom.
- conveniences, Wunderlich ceilings. X.Y-/
[ydney Telegraph, Sydney.
ENSINGTON, semi-.detatched Villa reside
containing 7 good Wunderlich
dl laid out garden. Marchant and Ctj^w^rge-si
r. KILDA. Queen Anne Vy+Tf A, in sple
- position, 6 large rooms, spacious vertT
’underlich ceilings. Landlord. Argus Office, Me
AMBERWELL, detached brick COTTAGE, ji
completed, 7 rooms, wide hall, bath, Wnnderli
Metal Ceilings. Foxtons, Collins-st., Melbotyl
ADELAIDE, comfortably appoint^
- -S RESIDENCE containing 9 rooms just
lieted and now ready for occupation, Wno4e- L
ilingsin all rooms.
aaBANE, four new VILLA residences
gf completing in convenient suburb, 6 roomj
ifodern appointments throughout, WunderlichAy
Intal reilings. Wexford, Courier Office. ‘
OBART, 8 roomed CO TTAGE, in nice localul
■ well decorated, splendid order. Wunderlid
'ilings. Builder, Mercury Office, Hobart. - /
AUNCESTON, beautiful RESIDENCE in ctv
—< venient locality. 10 rooms, recently
md fitted with Wunderlich ceilings, moderate ren
- and Co., Launceston
iERTH Gothic COTTAGE, wide verandahs,
cellent bathroom, all modern convenient
Phillips antHTJ®
iWSINGTON, semi-detatched Villa resident
containing Tgo.od Wunderlich ceiiitiEed room
laid out garden. Marchant and Co., George-s
T. KILDA, Queen Anne VILLA, in splendi
' position, 6 large rooms, spacious veranda
inderlich ceilings. Landlord, Argus Office, aim
AMBERWELL, detached brick COTTAGE/ m
completed, 7 rooms, wide hall, bath, Wiyeoerlit
Foxtons, Collins-st., Melbourn
ORTH ADELAIDE, comfortably appoint
<SIDENCE containing 9 rooms, just -
polntj
m
R OBART, 8 roomed COTTAGE, in nicelocabj
well decorated, sjilendid order. WimderlTc
iK'KTH. Gothic COTTAGE, wide verandahs, _
K all modern convenience
I.nderliotr Art Metal ceilings. Phillips and C
■y sl -/ n '
and now ready for occupation, Wun.
lings in all rooms.
RISBANE, four new VILLA residences ju
completing in convenient suburb, 6 room
odern appointments throughout, Wundyillgh,. A
al ceilings. Wexford, Courier Office.
•II d’ecorated, sjilendid order. Win
ilings. Builder, Mercury Office, Hobart.
AUNCESTON, beautiful RESIDENCE in od
„ venient locality, 10 rooms, recently re-decorat-
U fitted with Wunderlich ceilings, moderate re
mes and Co., Launcestdn
nrirv
_MAN, COTTAGE. 6 rooms, bathroom, a
conveniences, Wunderlich ceilings. X.Y .Z
ney Telegraph, Sydney.
ENSINGTON. semi-detatched Villa resid<#d
rnnmininp 7 good Wunderlich ceilinged room
I laid out garden. Marchant and Co.~. George-s
T. KILDA, Queen Anne VILLA, in splendi
position, 6 large rooms, spacious veraQilif
tinderlirli ceilings. Landlord, Argus Office, Mel
AMBERWELL, detached brick COTTAGE,;
completed, 7 rooms, wide hall, bath, Wiinder..,
'em I Ceilings. Foxtons, Collins-st., Melbourn
OITYJI ADELAIDE, comfortably appoint!
RESIDENCE containing 9 rooms, just col
ted and now ready for occupation, Wunderlic
lingsin all rooms.
)RISBANE, four new VILLA residences^'
I completing in convenient suburb, 6 wot.
moaVn appointments throughout, Wunderlich At
Metarceiiings. Wexford, Courier Office. -
fOBART, 8 roomed COTTAGE, in nice localifl
well decorated, splendid order. Wunderlic
ceilings. Builder. Mercury Office, Hobart.
T AUNCESTON, beautiful RESIDENCE in cor
venient locality, 10 rooms, recently re-decorate
and fitted with Wunderlich ceilings, moderate
Jones and Co., Launceston. - " "
iERTH. Gothic COTTAGE, wide verandahs,jj
i. cellent bathroom, all modern
Wunderlich Art Metal ceilings. ' Phillips and - Co
Hay-si. - . .
completing in convenient subui
'modern appointments .throughout, W
Metal ceilings. Wexford, Courier Oflv
P|\/rOS™N, COTTAGE, 6
f *>*•*■ conveniences, Wunderlich catlings. X.Y/fl
Sydney Telegraph, Sydney. \
TS ENSINGTON, semi-detatched Vrtta residence
containing 7 good Wunderlich ceilidged rooms
well laid out garden. Marchant and Co., George *
KILDA, Queen Anne VILLA, in splendj<
position, 6 large rooms, spacious verandhl
Wunderlich ceilings. Landlord, Argus Office, Melt
CAMBERWELL, detached brick COTTAGE, just
completed, 7 rooms, wide hall, bath, Wunderlich
Art Metal Ceilings. Foxtons, Collins-st., Melbourne
NORTH ADELAIDE, comfortably appointed
RESIDENCE containing 9 rooms, just comf
pleted and now ready for occupation, Wnnderjjllj
ceilings in all rooms.
TWTOSJIAN, COTTAGE. 6 roonjs.
conveniences, Wunderlich cpilii
Sydney Telegraph, Sydney.
containing 7 good Wunderlich ceilinged rooms
well laid out garden. Marchant am! Co., cieorge-st
ST. KILDA, Queen Anne VXLLA, in splendid
position, 6 large rooms, verandah
Wunderlich ceilings. Office, Melbj
/-i * m Di: nun: i r j I J\. rnTTiCC if i
CAMBERWELL, detached'brick COTTAGE, jii
completed, 7 rooms, wide hall, bath, Wunderlich
Art Metal Ceilings. Foxtons. Collins-st., Melbour
"bRTH ADELAIDE, comfortably appoints
9 rooms, just com
?d and now rafftly for occupation, Wnnderlicl
sin all roo^rs.
Ceiling Troubles Banished.
CAREFUL househunters know it is a wise economy to see that they have
Wunderlich Ceilings, for the aid to the decorative effect of the rooms,
enhancement of the general appointments, and the additional beauty given to
the whole home are undoubted. They satisfy good taste, and supply the surround-
ings with an impressive, dignified effect. 'They are of lasting benefit, perfectly
reliable, never cracking or warping, fire resisting, sanitary, and a pleasing assistance
in the scheme of the completed dwelling.
Wunderlich Ceilings help materially on the economical side, for they require
practically no attention after once being installed.
The sheets are made of the best sheet steel, coated on both sides with a good
oil paint; the outside portion treated in the style of coloring required. Each section
is protected with a lap joint, forming a complete cover, so that the finished ceiling,
when painted, forms a perfect surface without crack or crevice.
Unless Wunderlich Ceilings are installed it is almost impossible to keep ceilings
free from dust and dirt, for dust and dirt will collect on other ceilings, and it is
difficult to dislodge. It cannot be too widely known that dust is a germ carrier,
and both give the Wunderlich Ceilings a wide berth.
To ensure having Wunderlich Ceilings, see that our TRADE MARK is on
every sheet, and remember that Wunderlich Ceilings and Manufactures are
only made at the Wunderlich Factories.
WUNDERLICH CEILINGS AND MANUFACTURES ARE ONLY MADE
IN AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND.
We are Sole Agents for Marseilles Roofing Tiles, and keep large stocks at all
our depots.
CATALOGUES of Ceilings, Wall Linings and Terra Cotta Roofing accessories
sent post free on request.
WUNDERLICH LTD.
SYDNEY : 56 Pitt Steeet.
MELBOURNE: 243 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE : King William Street.
PERTH : Lord and Short Streets.
BRISBANE : 363=5 Queen Street.
HOBART : Collins Street.
LAUNCESTON : St. John Street.
N.Z. AGENTS; Briscoe & Co., Ltd.
Art
E
•m
[ ; oxtons, Collins-st., Melbourne"
NORTH aT\KLAI DE, comfortably appointed
RESIDENCE containing 9 rooms, just com-
pleted and now\eady for occupation, Wunderlich
ceilings in all room\
BRISBANE, four View VILLA residences just
' completing in convenient suburb, 6 rooms,
modern appointments Wunderlich Art
Metal ceilings. Wexfor\ Courier Office.
HOBART, 8 roomed COTTAGE, in nice locality,
well decorated, splendid order.- Wunderlich
ceilings. Builder, Mercury Office, Hobart.
LAUNCESTON, beautiful RESIDENCE incon-
venient locality, 10 rooms, recently re-decorated
and fitted with Wunderlich ceilings, moderate rent
Jones and Co.. Launceston.
JERTH, Gothic COTTAGE.iwide verandahs, ex-
cellent bathroom, all niJdern conveniences,
Wunderlich Art Metal ceiling# Phillips and Co.,
fg
T\]VrTHADELAIDE, comfortably appointed
A(y-:S k IDENCE containing 9 rooms, just com-
pleted rfrqd' now ready for occupation, Wunderlich
ceilings inSll rooms.
TDRISBANE, four new VILLA residences just
completing in convenient suburb, 6 rooms,
modern appointments throughout, Wunderlich Art
Metal ceilings. Wexford, Courier Office.
HOBART, 8 roomed COTTAGE, in nice locality,
well decorated, splendid order, Wunderlich
ceilings. Builder, Mercury Office, Hobart.
T AUNCESTON. beautiful RESIDENCE in con-
*-* venient locality. 10 rooms, recently re-decorated
and fitted with Wunderlich ceilings, moderate t rent.
Jones and Co., Launceston.
OERTH, Gothic COTTAGE, wide verandahs, ex*.
* cellent bathro >m, all modern conveniences,'
Wunderlich Art Mflml ceiliugs. Phillips and Co.,


•«v
-V'i'.z-'' * ’C ~ Q
asssss:
■353
MKw
''-v'iiV-
*3£
■»sw
m
-i.-.
1
g- Y>-:f.’
I-’;-.'
m
•'N‘ \: v
v,.
c
mw!
<C :-;: y rtit:
l-.-t.
S3S
§P®
£#4:l*
il
§&&i
S&§
Sfesf?: ;<*-
&...-. *jgy> cc:?
Si
##
r>v-
I*?®!®;
fctl
lii
sag®
sf
i&sZSK
afer-V•' :•■* • • :*V’;'t %•/*•’•.£ *r
s^s=»
iSi
fflt l _/£ rurtw—r/* ,r ' , ’ <^
j53%f&3?j33
' -£
n
gits
=K£-«
MB
H
mm
2-uft
>*• •.•■. -.J—
-«PiSS>-N
*sssv-
Warn
ttW-sm
m
£i«jCg=i
mm
fci'Sj
WS<*
< j
j- y?
* j **
m
<2l
*^I?SI3eViVS?
SWSggC?L_
■
wism
ass*s>ME-j
-Sts
>feai
I i:;«v.®i leS‘?;-. ; is?.=s ; :*k «BRRs?£^'^iB^?s23iSs§s{3Kr:*s?::
# ‘ " * - ' is : -' v- T /
0
*
o
o
«£
AvfcfeßJK
You should
Economise on
your cost of
Ploughing and general
Farm Work by using an
“1.H.C.” Gasolene Tractor.
These Tractors have been Easy
Vidors in all Public Field Tests where
entered throughout the world.
They won the Gold Medal and Sweepstakes at
Winnipeg in 1909.
They put up a World’s Record of 78-5 * of brake horse power
delivered at draw-bar, in the Winnipeg Contest in 1910.
There are less than 90 Oil Farm Tractors in use throughout
the Commonwealth —78 of them are “I.H.C.’s.”
These 78 “I.H.C.’s” are saving money for and giving satisfac-
tion to their owners every day , and there soon will be hundreds,
if not thousands, of them doing the same for other owners.
Further particulars gladly supplied on application to those who
desire to make or save money by the use of improved methods.
International Harvester Company of America (. Incorporated)
200 Roma Street, Brisbane. 37 Broadway, Sydney. 545 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
18-20 North Terrace, Adelaide. 75 York Street, Launceston.
GEO. WILLS & CO., Perth, General Agents for Western Australia.
ROBT. NETTLEFOLD, Hobart,
General A gent for Southern Tasmania.
. (517)
“1.H.C.” Stationary and
Pori able Engines are just
as good as the Tractors.
m
jgf
Have You SmoKed
Wm~ “ NIMROD ’’
—the Tobacco with the palate-pleasing aroma ? It is a blend of the
finest Tobacco leaves —so carefully intermixed that each pipeful
has the same amount of satisfaction in it as the previous one.
Fine Wafer & rttedium Cut.
Jib., 2/-; posted, 2/3
11b., 7/6; posted, 8/3
Jib., 3/9; posted, 4/3
31b., 21/-; posted, 22/3
KISMET CIGARETTES
THE BEST AND MOST AROMATIC
ON THE MARKET.
se e
VIRGINIAN.
10 in a box, 9d.; posted, 10d.
a box, 1/9; posted, 1/11
a box, 3/6; posted, 3/10
a box, 6/6 ; posted, 7/-
TURKISH.
10 in a box, 1/-; posted, 1/1
25 in a box, 2/6 ; posted, 2/8
50 in a box, 5/-; posted, 5/4
100 in a box, 9/-; posted, 9/6
ANDREW McGEE
Sydney’s Leading
Tobacconist,
5 & 7 CASTLEREAGH ST., corner Hunter St., SYDNEY.
Jshe BULLETIN POST CARDS
PACKET OF TWELVE 6d. PACKET CF TEN sd.
j
The “PLUM” Razor is sold
by Experts .
We’ve used so many “ PLUM ” RAZORS ourselves that we
offer you this splendid blade lor 10/6 post free —with the
utmost confidence. Our head barber personally tests
every blade before it leaves our shop—therefore 3'ou
MUST get satisfaction.
The “PLUM”
RAZOR, in/£
Post Free. "*/ U
The C. &A. Mous-
tache Trainer
makes the mous-
tache a nice shape.
Worn at night.
2/6 post free.
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-
PLUM Razor, in Case, 10/6.
Pair in Case, 21/-
Tiie Plum Razor Strop, 10/6 and 7/6
Other good kinds from 3/6 each.
Universal Shaving Soap, 6d.
Razoleo Lightning Sharpener, 6d.
All the abore Post Free.
We Crind and Set Razors, 1/- each.
CRAIG & AITKEN. 654 Ceorge Street, Sydney.
Established
30 Years.
Ui
Immense field open for Detroit Oil Engines. Newinvention permits operating on ordinary
lamp oil. Operates equally well on Petrol, Paraffin. Alcohol, Benzine, I distillate, Naptha
or Coal Oil. No heating device required. Stationary Engines for farms, shops, and all
power purposes. Electric lighting outfits. Pumps and pumping outfits. Sawing out-
fits. Marine Engines for boats and Marine Reverse -ears. Sizes a-h.p. to ioo-h.p. One
to eight cylinders. Engines fully warranted and built to work. Liberal commissions
paid. Special wholesale price on first outfit in a community. Handsomely finished
demonstrator engine at no extra cost. Complete Illustrated Catalog mailed FREE
Write for our proposition to agents anti o power. Bank references given.
Detroit Engine Works, 15 Meldrum Avenue, Detroit, Michigan USA
fgjg


TO-DAY
if your baby is not thriving use the
‘Allenburys’ Foods. They develop
firm flesh and bone and promote robust health and vigour.
No digestive disturbance need be feared from the use of
these pure milk and malted foods.
MILK FOOD NO. 1.
From birth to 3 months.
MILK FOOD NO. 2.
From 3 to 6 months.
MALTED FOOD NO. 3.
From 6 months upwards.
iSllenburgs Foods
fJBIP’ Pamphlet on
Infant Feeding and
Management Free.
ALLEN S’ HANBURYS Ltd., London, Sng„
and MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
zA
n-r
■MAGIC]
TfIYSIERY
I i I - and I
L IlßTrt
Vk
%
1
YOU all know the “ man who does the
tricks” at the party—don’t you?
Makes everybody laugh, puzzles and tricks
them, and they can’t tell how he does it.
YOU can be as clever and funny as he by
the use of our Tricks, Novelties and Magic Surprises. Very simple if you follow the instructions with each
Write for Free Catalogue of Makers
of Mirth and Mystery.
The Wonderful Gyroscope and
Mono-rail Top.
Perfect demonstration of the railroad of
the future. This marvellous top defies
the laws of gravity and equilibrium.
Spins in any position—on top of finger,
end of nose, edge of tumbler, etc. Baffles
Science, delights children, astounds
adults. The more you spin it, the more
it will puzzle you.
Post Free 1/3, or Larger Size. 2/3.
CO
3 S *£o4-
Chinese Ring Bar Puzzle.
Endless amusement. The idea is to
remove the handle from the rings. Looks
so simple, yet puzzles them all till they
know how. Well made of solid polished
brass. Fits vest pocket. Write for it
to-day, enclosing stamps for amount.
1/- Post Free.
©
I
The Wizard Fortune-
Telling Cards.
Endless interest. Lends
a new charm to pre-
dictinfr fortune. Sim-
ple to use.
1/9 Post Free.
r
I
w
The Wonderful Plate-Lifter.
Will make your friends’ plates and cups dance quite
unexpectedly as they sit at meals. No
one can see the cause ; works quite im-
perceptibly from the other end of the
table. Shrieks of laughter. 1/-post free.
Wondrous Disappearing
Handkerchief Trick.
This handkerchief makes anything
disappear. Very effective.
1/3 Post Free.
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
(H. L. HUTCHINSON, LTD.)
710 GEORGE STREET,
111 KING STREET,
25*27 OXFORD STREET,
SYDNEY.
THE AGCORDEON for Country Residents.
*
We don’t believe any Accordeon comes
so near perfection as the Celebrated
STAR Trombone Accordeon.
It has a powerful tone, handsome ebonised case,
lar<re bellows protected by steel corners ; 2 sets of
broad steel bronze reeds. Patent Rotary Celeste
extra
extra
Stop.
Price
Postage to any Address
in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Extra quality, with 3 sets of Reeds, Celeste and Organ Stop,
15-fold Bellows with steel corners. Price £1 7s. 6tL;
postage to any address in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Other Accordeons from 7/6 to 100/-
HEINDORFF BROS.,
Importers of Pianos and all kinds of Musical!
Instruments, Watches, Jewellery, etc.,
210 QUEEN STREET BRISBANE
V
Food
FOR INFANTS , INVALIDS AND THE AGED r
A food of great nutritive value, which can be made-
suitable for any degree of digestive power by the-
simple process of letting it stand for a longer or*
shorter period at one stage of its preparation..
Benger’s Food forms with milk, a dainty, delicious and!
highly nutritive cream, entirely free from rough and*
indigestible particles. “The Lancet” describes it as-
“ Mr. Benger’s admirable preparation.”
BENGER’S FOOD, LIMITED, Otter Works, Manchester,
fTjengers Food is sold in tins by Druggists, etc., everywhere.
B2*~
66 H> ° ° V 9
You will find far greater pleasure in spending your spare hours
at home if you have a “Bijou”' table in the dining-room.
This table is specially designed for home use —it contains all the
merits of our standard tables, with the advantage of being readily
convertible into a dining-table by means of a simple adjustment of
leaves.
It is fitted with slate bed, fast-running cushions, covered with
superfine billiard cloth, beautifully made and nicely finished.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.
Alcock & Co B
fjgfj
Billiard Manufacturers,
397 George St., Sydney. 114 Edward St., Brisbane. Lower Cuba St., Wellington.
155 Elizabeth St., Melbourne. 7 King William St., Adelaide. Murray St., Perth.^
Will Andrade for BOOKS.
Freemasonry
Explained.
—_
,A GUIDE TO THE
'CRAFT!
A LIGHT TO THE
UNENLIGHTENED
THE KEYS TO ALL
DEGREES!
COMPLETE, Is.
ffost Free, Is. 3d.
Kelly Gang, True Story,
1/-. Book of Coin Tricks,
1/.. Wrestling, by Frank
Gotch, World’s Champion,
lOd. One Thousand Ways
to Get Rich, 1/6. How Old
Mose Counted Eggs, and
115 other Recitations, 1/-.
Letter Writer, ]/-. Dr.
Foote’s Plain Home Cyclo-
paedia, latest edition, 1248
pages, 400 colored plates
and engravings, 7/6. Dr.
Faulkner’s Original Book
of Nature, the only genu-
ine and unabridged edi-
tion, 3/6, posted 4/-. Free-
masonry Explained, 1/3.
New Tricks with Cards,
1/-. How to Mesmerise, 1/-
ew~and any book
YOU WANT.
L
CHEAP CONJURING TRICKS.
Marvellously Simple 1
Simply Marvellous !
Multiplying and Van-
ishing Billiard Balls.
Produced from no-
where, appearing at
word of command be-
tween the fingers (see
illustration). Complete
with Full Instructions
(enabling the merest
amateur to perform it),
1/6 ; posted, 2 -
Two-from-Five Card
Trick. Another start-
ler, introducing some-
thing quite new in
magic. Price 6d. ; post
free, Bd.
The Above Two Tricks (which require no stage,
no confederates and no special skill), post free any-
where. with Illustrated Catalogue of Magic, 2/6.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
Mention The Bulletin.
Above prices include postage to any address.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne.
All men appreciate the comfort, the
simplicity and the absence of trouble
in using the Gillette Safety Razor,
but it is the saving of time and the
clean, smooth way it shaves that give
them most delight.
British made and sold everywhere.
Write for “Hints on Shaving," sent post free. Mention this paper.
GILLETTE SAFETY RAZOR, Ltd., 17 Holborn Viaduct, London, England.
rmiprra
NO STROPPING NO HONING
g
“ Billv T I was staying in a somewhat
superior Sydney family hotel lately an establish-
ment much frequented by the fat
in the smoking and reading-room in Jepletho^
moments after dinner, chanced omnncst
conversation. The concensus of
the slow, portly proprietors of vast acreage an
abounding flocks and herds, mosto OYf , PPf K n ff
had one leg in a bundle or walked with exceeding
deliberation on sticks, was that Labor was going
too far. One very large squatter embedded in a
corner, with four medium squatters in an' admr-
ing semi-circle about his girth after half an hour
of dissertation on the infamy of Labor in g lt |L ~.
far, suddenly propounded his ultimatum :
have to have a revolution ! To my utter
astonishment, the minor squatters agreed with
fervor. Yes, they would have to have a revolu-
tion. It was being forced on them. Labor was
going too far. If Labor continued its wicked
excursion, it would be necessary for the grea
landed proprietors to awake, arise. Here s an 1-
podean politics with a vengeance ! A revolution
from the top ! Fatman breaking heads and burn-
ing houses, throwing up barricades in the streets,
and hurling nitro-glyeerine bombs into the mi drift
of a tyrannous democracy. Gilbert and Sullivan
might have elaborated the idea, but it was pro-
pounded in all seriousness and with righteous
emotion by my five fat plutocrats.


MICK. SIMMONS LTD.
Great ANNUAL SALE
of SPORTING and
FISHING GOODS.
Every Article in 1911 Catalogue Reduced Excepting 25 Convention Lines marked thus : X.
SEND FOR SPECIAL SALE SNAPS and LIST.
SALE STARTS MONDAY, MARCH 20; FINISHES FRIDAY, MARCH SI.
Head Depot: MICK SIMMONS LTD., HaymarKet, SYDNEY.
Branches: Hunter St., Newcastle; 273 Darling; 5t., Balmain; 197 Oxford St., City;
113 King; St., Newtown); 24 Pitt St., City ; Church St., Parramatta.
Schute, Bell & Go.
LIMITED,
Wool Stores: Central Wharf. Produce Stores
Quay. Offices :44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Do not sell Fat Stock,
but only Wool, Sheepskins,
Hides, Tallow, etc., and
Marsupial & Rabbit Skins.
Each head of the Company a worker
in the interests of their constituents.
Proceeds protected Trust Account
Bank of N.S.W.
j
GIVEN AWAY
For Correct Answers.
To each and every person sending in the Corre et Solution of the following Puzzle we hereby undertake
and agree to send them the sum of
b . „, b . five pounds
sub|eot to the conditions hereunder :
Encouraged by the enormous demand for our PICTURE POST CARDS, we have devised this simple
method of advertising, with the object of making our name mere widely known, and to introduce our
tan Series. We expeot by this competition of brains to make such an impression on your mind that
talk ftbout u * to y° ur friends, ajid the extraordinary value of our FINE ART
ritlUAlii POST CARDS.
ALL WE ASK YOU TO DO IS THIS!
lull in the missing letters in the following Puzzle :
O*R P»*T C*R*S A*E T*E B**T V*L*E IN A*S*R*L,A.
Your answer must he posted and addressed to the Manager of the Fine Art Post Card Co.,hunter-
street, Sydney and received by him, and must agree with our solution, lodged in the Bank of NSW.
PRIZES WILL BE SENT PROMPTLY.
With your solution to the above Puzzle (to which there is no entry fee), send us a Postal Note for 2/6
for which we will send you Free a sample packet of thirty (30) Selected and Assorted Post Cards, and if
your solution is correct, we will also send you within a fortnight your prize of £5, and will ask you to
7 0Ur servi . o ' B {or showing our Post Cards, and recommending them to your friends
Wi GUARANTEE this Cempetition to be a straightforward Competition of brains and work. A copy
of the right solution we have lodged with our Bankers (BankN.S.W.).
Due notice of the closing of this Competition will appear in this paper, but if before the date ofthe
closing of the Competition more than 100 correct answers have been received, One Hundred Cash Prizes
of £5 each will be awarded to those sending correct answers in the order in whioh their answers shall
have been read by the Manager of the FINE ART POST CARD CO.
Should your solution reaohus before the closing date, and be oorreot according to our conditions and
not be within the first 100, we will send you FREE A SOLID SILVER WATCH AND CHAIN (Lady's or
Gentleman’s). No person will be entitled to more than one prize. J
N.8.--Y°ur solution is to be accompanied by attached Coupon which forms part of this competition,
and addressed to THE MANAGER OF ’
FINE ART POST CARD CO.,
HUNTER STREET,
SYDNEY.
My Solution to your Puzzle is as follows:
And I AGREE TO ABIDE BY THE DECISION OF THE MANAGER OF THE FINE ART POST
CARD CO., which I accept as final and legally binding,
Signed. . .
Address
Date
What You Get —Not What You Pay — COUNTS.
TRY
THE
EAGLE
Built by men who know the
essentials of GOOD WORK.
The PERFECT PRODUCT of
practical experience.
gj
Brand
Footwear
Made from Australian Materials by Australians foi Australians.
They meet the demand for STRICTLY RELIABLE and UP-TO-DATE FOOTWEAR.
They Will Satisfy YOU!
Obtainable from Leading MERCHANTS everywhere.
Sole Manufacturers and Proprietors —
The Davey Halliday Company, Limited
Wholesale Only.
BRISBANE-,
For your BOOTS and SHOES.
MELTONIAN
CREAM.
Cannot be equalled for
renovating all kinds of
Glace Kid Boots and Shoes.
(Obtainable in White and Black).
LUTETIAN”
CREAM.
For all kinds of Brown
Leather Boots and Shoes.
Has a world-wide reputation.
Made in light and dark colours.
SOLD EVERYWHERE,
Made by the Manufacturers of the Celebrated [X
MELTONIAN” BOOT POLISHES.
E. BROWN S SON
(Blacking and Boot Polish)
' Manufacturers, '
LTD., LONDON and PARIS.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OP NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GLHDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
graving's, new 190 S edition, 2s 6d posted. Meriue
England, 6d. How to Get Rich, Is posted.' Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. t Up-To-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is Cd. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Quadrille Call Book,
2s. Adventures of a Flirt, Is. 3d. Parlor Tricks
and Games, Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
Is 2d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is 2d post.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ss. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain for the
British, 6d. How to Read Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting an»
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, ls6d.
fgjfg
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dii. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Hereare answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning- mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
BOOKSELLER TO THE. COMMONWEALTH. “®|
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with lull directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
/Card Games (Rules for all Gaines), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River, os 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
•posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made EAsy, is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
ds 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers' Handybook, Is 3d.
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. HowMcDougall Topped the Score, &
Other Verses, Is 3d. The Gay Count, Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I've got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying- more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. ipP“ Established 25 Year s _
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney
(only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROn THIS ADVT.
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OP ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. Hew Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappiio, genuine,
is. OGd Bush Songs, Is 3d cost. Hit. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s (id. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions of the King,
Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. 6d. Secret
History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. Test Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post.
Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Ciievasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s (id posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy. Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (word* and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Bd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.


Cheerful Days—The Days When You Take
LAXO-TONIC PILLS.
Isn’t it Wonderful what a Difference One
Little LAXO-TONIC PILL makes ?
We all need a laxative sometimes.
How often we need it depends entirely on how we live.
If we exercise largely, and eat the right food, we need a laxative only
occasionally.
But if we live indoors, and get too little laxative effect in our food, we may
need to get it quite frequently in some other way.
Nobody can doubt the need for a laxative. The only question is.: Which
one is the best ?
And that isn’t a question now.
LAXO-TONIC PILLS are known to embody the only laxative which
acts in a gentle and natural way.
Castor oil merely greases the bowels.
Cathartics and salts, acting as pepper acts in the nostrils, flush the bowels
with fluids.
But these fluids are digestive juices, and we will lack them to-morrow if
we waste them to-day.
\axoyoriic
?©€K(i7
A
a
■\y,
M
LAXO-TONIC PILLS alone cause the muscles of the bowels to act the
same as some foods would do.
Carry them with you. Take one when you need it. You will then enjoy all
the good effects of keeping the bowels clean.
Remember they are a Tonic as well as a Laxative cleanse, strengthen and
build up the entire system. We want you to try LAXO-TONIC
PILLS. Send us your name and address, and we will send you a
Free Sample at once. The Regular Size is obtainable at all Chemists
and Stores, at 10j4d. ; Double Size, Is. 6d.
LAXO-TONIC PILL CO., 15 O’Connell St., Sydney.
Nothing can surpass
HORROCKSES’
SHEETINGS for
durability
LATEST VICTORY
GRAND PRIZE
BRUSSELS
EXHIBITION, 1910
U. St G. 3002
When Buying see HORROCKSES' name on
Face-plait, and decline all substitutes.
Sold by all First-Class Drapers and
Storekeepers.
HOLLOWAY’S
Pills (& Ointment
A TRIAL of HOLLOW AY'S PILLS has meant
The Dawning » Brighter Day
to many a sufferer from liver, kidney and stomach
troubles* For over three-score years and ten they
have been supreme in all cases of biliousness, .
headache, indigestion, depression and other com-
plaints which usually arise from constipation.
You should also use HOLLOWAY’S OINT-
MENT, which possesses remarkable healing
virtues in cases of skin affections and sores,
rheumatism, lumbago, sciatica, etc. See to
it that you always have a box and pot handy.
To be obtained from all Chemists, Stores,
etc.
Manufactured only at
113 SOUTHWARK ST. (late 78 New Oxford St.), LONDON, S.E.
Everyone Else and I.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
CLASSES and creeds of every kind compose
The world we live in—wide-mouthed cab-
men, those
Who peddle fish, policemen fat, and thieves,
Parsons and prigs, and men with waxwork shows.
We wake, look owl-like, scan our papers, see
Each budding day some fresh discovery ;
So far and fast our learning sprints that I
Wonder (in spasms) what the end will be.
So far within the pictured portico
Of erudition we have pushed (although
Why we should push at all perplexes me),
There’s really not much lefb to learn, you know !
Who first presumed to lay out and allot
The laws of “ etiquette,” and Lord knows what ?
I yearn to yell exactly what I feel 1
Why should somethings be “rude” and others
not ?
For special social functions we must don
A special kind of hat; must cram and con
“ Deportment”—rules that teach us not to trip
In rugs our Vandal feet meander on.
Why should (say) Smithers’ name be, near and
far,
Subject of smirks in smoking-room or bar
Because he wears straw hats with bathing-suits,
And with his frock-coat dons a Panama '!
I long, sometimes, to hurl the garments hence
That Culture garbs me with ; to scale a fence,
And, thereon sitting, twit facetiously
Fathers of families who wander thence.
Or else to be a cave-man, dodge “ at homes,”
Tooth-brushes, patent shoes and “classic” tomes.
And ambush, in a glade, a Deamer girl
Who never heard of hatpins, pads or combs.
What earthly use is there in learning, when
The Lord has laid our limit down at ten
And three score? Rather laugh the day through,
sleep,
Waken, and do the repertoire again.
O Fellow Toilers, clo not pant and thirst
For worthless Knowledge from the Tree accurst!
The Whole Damn Thing’s a Joke ! Hear the
prime truth—
/'he Last Man knows no more than did the First!
VICTORIA.
JAS. ALEX. ALLAN.
Murty’s Mate.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
MURTY BROWN had drifted casually
into Bill Tarkalson’s service, assist-
ing him first in the building of a
house, then in fencing his bit of farm land,
and burning off logs and stumps in pre-
paration for ploughing. Being used to
droving and station life, Murty found this
kind of work anything but congenial. But
he held on, partly on account of a chronic
state of bankruptcy, but principally be-
cause his usual mate, Jim Webb, could not
be induced, these days, to locate himself
beyond two or three hours’ ride of the
township. Murty, in short, had been de-
serted for a partner of the feminine persua-
sion. He had tried at first to cure Jim
of the courting habit, but when he found
that his old comrade had acquired in addi-
tion an intense interest in “lands for selec-
tion,” and spent what spare nights he had
studying maps, he gave him up as a hope-
less case. Murty was about as senti-
mental as an axe handle.
Then Bill married Sarah Muddle, and
went away on the river boat for the honey-
moon. When Murty emerged from the ex-
citement of that event, he discovered that
he had a new mate. He had a hazy idea
that Bill had put him on to assist in the
heavy work of levering logs, and grubbing
and splitting, but lie wouldn’t condescend
to ask. Murty had a little pride about
him. To admit his ignorance of the engage-
ment would be to lower his status on the
plantation, if it didn’t lead the stranger to
regard himself as head man. He did seek
enlightenment from the Muddles, and from
Don Garry his next neighbor; but the ex-
citement had obscured their memories also.
In the end, Murty took things for granted,
and lost no time in securing the reins of
government.
The mate’s name was Humphrey Hodge.
He was a big man of slommicky build, an
immigrant whose movements lent an impres-
sion that he had been reared in a land of
lots of time. But he was enthusiastic in
pointing out to Murty what he would do
if he owned it. Expense was immaterial
to him. It also appeared immaterial to
him whether the job in hand lasted a day
or a month. It was hot work burning off
in the middle of the day, and he made an
effort to alter the hours.
“We’re not goin’ about this in a proper,
systematic way, Murty,” he said, in a confi-
dential sort of manner. “We should work
early in the mornin’, an’ a bit at night, an’
camp through the day, ’stead o’ sweatin’
our eyes out. Fires seem to burn better at
night, too. Have you noticed!'”
Murty had noticed that Humphrey took
a lot of calling in the morning, while he
never let the sun sink on him in the pad-
dock, and he checked the threatened inno-
vation in the bud.
“ ’Tain’t a safe job to be doin’ at night,
’count o’ snakes,” he said. “Killed three
black ones to-day.”
Murty was cook. He left off half an
hour before Humphrey at mid-day to boil
the billy. Then he coo-eed. Murty could
never see. when he went back what Hum-
phrey had been doing in the interval, but
he said nothing. For a week they got along
amicably together, Humphrey proving him-
self a sociable sort in the evening, after he
had tucked away a good feed, and helped
himself liberally from Tarkalson s tobacco
store, which, he said, Bill had told him to
make use of. Then their good relationship
ended abruptly.
Murtv had coo-eed for dinner as usual,
but without response. He had his own din-
ner, and his customary smoke, before going
to look for Humphrey. He found him lying
under a tree, fast asleep. Instead of call-
ing him, Murty began chucking logs about
with a great noise a little distance away.
Humphrey jumped up, looked at the sun,
and started to work again. With a good-
humored grin on him all the time, Murty
busied himself close by, waiting for the big-
fellow to ask if dinner was ready. But he
didn’t ask; he worked all the afternoon,
worked harder than he had ever done be-
fore, and never spoke. He did not seem
to know if Murty was in the neighbor-
hood.
It was the same at tea time. He reached
for everything, whereas he used 10 ask
Murty to pass them; and he- washed up his
own things, leaving the rest on the table.
When they had lit their pipes, Murty
thought it time to mend matters.
“What ’re yer makin’ all th’ noise about,
Humphrey?” he asked pleasantly.
No answer.
“Seem to be hard o’ bearin’ lately?”
Still silence.
“Anything get in yer ear to-day?”
Humphrey slapped the bowl of his pipe
hard against the palm of his hand, blew
into the stem, then shuffled over to where
the broom Avas standing, for a 'straw.
Afterwards he went to bed without saying
good- night.
The breach widened in the morning.
Murty got up earlier than usual, and shook
the roof with the clatter lie made getting
breakfast ready. Humphrey came out, and
put his own billy on. He repeated this at
noon, and in the evening, and thereafter
he made his own damper, and boiled his
own beef and potatoes. lie worked in a
different part of the paddock, did things in
his own way, acted on his own initiative,
and never uttered a word, good, bad or in-
different.
“This don’t suit my complexion at all,”
Murty grumbled. “’Twa’n’t all rosebuds
an’ vi’lets before, but with a yahoo skulkin’
around as ought to be in th’ deaf an’ dumb
asylum, it’s th’ dead finish. Wouldn’t even
swear when he jammed his finger this
mornin’. C! unbust me if 1 think he’d let
loose if I hit him with an axe. Always
meditatin’. , Devil take such a feller. He’ll
have to make himself scarce, an’ th’ sooner
th’ quicker.”
“Kick him out,” Octo Muddle advised.
“By cripes,.l’d like to be there!” Octo was
a mere stripling alongside Humphrey.
“You’re welcome to come at once, Octo,”
said Murty quickly. “I’ll put you on in
his place, if I have to pay you myself.”
“I’d be only too glad to,” Octo said, “but
we’re very busy just now.”
Things went on much the same to the end
of the week, the monotony being relieved
once by an exchange of compliments over
the lighting of the fire. Murty had been
fire-lighter all through, but now he sug-
gested to Humphrey that he should do his
share of it. Humphrey was evidently hurt
by this departure, for thenceforth he car-
ried his own wood, and lit his own fire —
alongside Murtv’s. On the first occasion
Murty stared at the duplicate as though he
couldn’t believe his eyes.
“Lord love a duck,” he said, “if I had a
disposition like yours, Humpy, I’d put it
in a bag with a blackfeller’s dog an’ drown
it!”
Humphrey struck up a soft, low whistle
as he lowered his billy into the flame. He
had made a hook for himself out of a piece
of wire.
“Must be a burden to yer,” added Murty.
Humphrey went on whistling. “S’pose
ye’ll be puttin’ up a new fireplace to-mor-
rer ?”
Humphrey slewed sharply. “What yer
slingin’ off at?” he snapped. “Fire ain’t
in your way, is it?”
“Nobody said it was.”
“Don’t cost you anything, does it?”
“No, it don’t!”
“This is a free country, ain’t it?”
“I suppose it is.”
“Then shut yer clap-trap!”
Murty shut it as desired, but he didn’t
keep it shut long. He felt that a prolonged
association with Humphrey Hodge would
drive him to drink. Tarkalson was not
expected back for another fortnight,' and
Murty decided that the curmudgeonly per-
son would have to shift before then. They
were at the tea table when Murty spoke to
him.
“You started on a Monday, if I recollect.
Mr. Hodge?”
My. Hodge began to gather up his table-
ware very busily.
“I said, you started on a Monday?”
Murty repeated, much louder.
“I can hear yer!” Mr. Hodge bawled back
at him, with a side glance like the leer of
a dingo.
“Oh, I thought you couldn’t,” said
Murty.
Mr. Hodge cleared away with more bustle
than usual.
“I wanted to notify you,” Murty went
on, “that I won’t be wantin’ you after this
week.”
“You won’t?”
“No.”
“Oh?”
“Bill will be home by then, an’ th’ two
of us will be able to manage,” Murty ex-
plained.
* (CwUmucd on next page.)


AN ENGINEER’S
TERRIBLE BURNS
GREAT RUNNING SORES GLEANED AND HEALED BY ZAM-BUK
AFTER MANY SO-CALLED REMEDIES PROVE USELESS.
3
tSM
Mr. P. )I’ALTER, who speaks
in praise of Zam-Buk.
THE smarting, stinging pain is quickly
subdued by the prompt application of
Zam-Buk. Mr. P. Walter, of 108
North Terrace, Adelaide, S.A., who is an
I engineer, says:l sustained a severe
burn on my arm by coming in contact with
the side of a furnace. The injury caused
me intense pain. The wound became in-
flamed, and soon was in a terrible state.
Complications set in, and festers started,
and the inflammation increased. I applied
many well-known remedies, but things
grew worse.
“ Little blisters formed, which gradually
merged to great running sores, from which
matter flowed freely. My arm was in a
very bad state when a friend recommended
Zam-Buk. 1 followed his advice and felt a
soothing sensation after the first few appli-
cations. The excessive pain ceased and the
burning inflammation died away. I con-
tinued with Zam-Buk until the wound was
completely healed, and I was able to use
my arm again. Since that time I have
often used Zam-Buk for burns, knocks and
cuts, and it has not failed me once.”
Everybody’s Ever-Ready Healer.
Zam-Buk Is
Invaluable
lor all
eczema,
ulcers, ring-
worm, piles,
bad legs,
and quickly
heals cuts,
scratches,
burns,
scrapes,
knocks and
bruises.
Always
keep a pot
handy. All
chemists
and stores
sell it at
1/6 and 3/6
per pot.
THERE’S
NOTHING
LIKE
ZAM-BUK.
The boon Zam-Buk was to Mr. Walter is due entirely
to the scientific composition of this healing prepara-
tion, which must not be oonfused with the cheap
salves and coarse ointments that no amount of
rubbing will force into the pores of the skin. These
ointments are, at best, merely toilet articles, and of
not the least medicinal value. There is wisdom and
economy in buying Zam-Buk, because the ailments
Zam-Buk combats are printed on its sealed package
and Zam<-Buk does all that It claims to do. ’
urn
THE
QUESTION of the DAY.
The question of to-day,
of to-morrow and of
every succeeding day is
HAVE YOU USED PEARS' SOAP ?
If you have not, you have not
done your duty by your sKin and
complexion. If, on the other hand
—that is, on both hands, and on the
face, and on the skin generally—you
HAVE used PEARS, you can feel
happy, for you will have done the
best that possibly can be done tor
the skin’s health and beauty. There
can be no question about that.
PEARS has been making beautiful
complexions for nearly 120 years.
PEARS
Matchless for the Complexion.
“An’ what are you supposed to be?”
Humphrey Hodge inquired.
“I’m in charge ’ere,” Murty told him.
“Oh! Are yer?”
“Yes, I am!” Murty’s eyes began to flash.
"An’, see here, Humpy, I don’t want any
of your insolence. If I’ve put up with
your peculiarities so far, it’s because I
thought you was some poor crank as was
hard up. But let it end there.”
Humpy planted the heels of his palms on
the table, and leaned towards him, speak-
ing deliberately.
“Mr. Tarkalson is the owner of this es-
tate ?”
“I ain’t disputin’ it,” said Murty.
“He engaged me?”
“Well, what about it?”
“He’ll sack me.”
Saying which, Humpy turned to his own
corner with a triumphant stride.
Murty was chagrined, but he wouldn’t
admit that he was beaten. He sat back
and thought. He smoked a couple of
pipes over the disagreeable subject. Grad-
ually the hard cast of his countenance re-
laxed; and when, presently, he put on his
hat and went put, he seemed to be trying
hard to keep from laughing.
“Think yer mighty smart, Humphrey,
don’t yer?” he said, when Humphrey
couldn’t hear. A few steps further on he
looked round and spoke again. “Think yer
can do as yer like in this establishment,
don’t yer?” Still a little further on, he
flung back with increasing vim: “Think
I’m a darned fool, don’t yer - ?”
Next day was Sunday. Murty was
quite cheerful over breakfast, but soon
afterwards his face assumed a drawn,
worried aspect. In this state he went
through the house like a man walking in
his sleep, searching the drawers and
boxes, and stopping often to think, while
his fingers went mechanically to his vest
pockets. He examined his wardrobe, and
felt along the shelves, coming to a stand-
still at last alongside Humphrey.
“Now, what th’ deuce did I do with it!”
he remarked meditatively. Humphrey took
no notice; he was sewing a button on his
spare shirt.
“Didn’t see a watch about anywhere, did
yer, Humpy?”
Humpy sewed on for a few seconds as
though he hadn’t heard him, then looked
up with a jerk.
“Were you addressin’ me?” he inquired
with mocking politeness.
“Was I addressin’ ’ell!” said Murty,
turning disdainfully away.
He was gazing at the rafters, holding
his chin between his thumb and forefinger,
when Tom Muddle and Don Garry stepped
in. He asked them if they had seen a
watch in their travels. They hadn’t.
“Strange where it could ’a’ got to!” said
Murty. “ ’Tain’t th’ first thing that dis-
appeared lately,” he added, looking mo-
mentarily at the needle, which Humphrey
was now jerking about in a way that
threatened to break the cotton.
“I missed Bill’s meerschaum pipe first,”
he continued. “Then my pocket-knife
went an’ a gold pin, an’ other odds an’
ends. All in th’ last fortnight!”
Humphrey left off sewing, and measured
him slowly with his eyes.
“D’yer mean to insinuate that I stole
’em?” he demanded.
“I ain’t accusin’ anybody,” said Murty.
“All I say is, there’s only been you an’ me
in th’ house, an’ th’ things couldn’t walk.”
“Which means that I’m a thief!” cried
Humphrey, jumping up, and throwing the
cotton reel on the floor so that it bounced.
He threw the shirt after it, and com-
menced to tuck his sleeves up.
“Call me a thief!” he repeated, spitting
on Ms hands and shuffling his 'feet about
in an agitated manner. “Come on!”
He shaped up, making feints and flour-
ishes, while Murty stood with his liand3
on his hips, quiet, but expectant.
“Let me at him! ” cried Humphrey, still
exercising. His face was sickly-white, his
breath short. Nobody was stopping him;
there was nothing in his way. He hitched
his pants up, then threw his arms out like
a man swimming. “Stand back!” he said.
“Let me get at him!”
He spat on his hands again, bounded'
into a fighting attitude, stood on the
cotton reel, did a rapid skate on one leg,
and landed heavily on his back. The
other men laughed boisterously.
The fallen gladiator got up slowly, di-
recting vivisecting glances at the audience
as he did so.
“Got a dashed lot to laugh at!” he re-
marked, sulkily.
“Y’ ought to be in a pantomime,
Humpy,” said Murty.
“You look out, or I’ll put you some-
where” growled H. Hodge. “iou don’t
call me a thief for nothing. I’ve got me
faults like other people; but I’m honest.”
“What d’yer strap your swag up every
mornin’ for, when you’re in a house?”
asked Murty.
“What’s that got to do with you?” Hum-
phrey demanded.
“If a policeman was lookin’ for missin’
property,” said Murty, “’twould be th’
first thing he’d want to overhaul.”
“Well,” said Muddle, pacifically, as the
pantomime threatened to break loose again,
“an honest man courts investigation if
only to allay suspicion.”
Hodge was considerably mollified by this.
He drummed his fingers on the table for
a moment, meditating. Then he straight-
ened up and said: “Come an’ search it,”
with the air of one who was conceding a
great point.
He threw the swag on the bed, and left
it to Murty to open and overhaul. Murty
accomplished this task with alacrity.
Among the contents was a small bag.
This he turned bottom up, and out dropped
the watch, pocket-knife, Bill’s meerschaum
pipe and other items.
He gathered them into his hands, glanc-
ing at Humphrey as he picked up each
article.
“Might ’ave his faults, like you an’ me
an’ other folks,” he said, exhibiting them
ail round as he passed out, “but he’s
honest.”
Humphrey looked dumbfounded. He
was still staring at the swag, as if fasci-
nated, when the other three left the room.
He came out presently with the swag
rolled up.
“It’s a dirty, mean, put-up job, an’ you
know it; all of yer!” he said, speaking in
low jerks.
“Enough o’ tnat!” said Muddle, holding
up his linger. “The less you say the
better.”
Murty slapped two one-pound notes on
the table.
“There’s your wages for th’ two weeks
you’ve been ’ere,” he said. “Now emi-
grate like Yen’rable Henry. An’ let it be
a lesson to yer to live sociable if you do
miss your dinner sometimes.”
Humphrey put the money in his pocket
and walked away without another word.
When Tancalson came back Murty briefly
informed him that he had sacked Hodge
because he was an insolent old pig, and
Tarkalson called him a chuckle-headed
chump for doing so.
“Why, darn your eyes!” he said, “that
man was puttin’ in a month here to work
off a dead horse. He owed me five
pounds!”
EDWARD S. SORENSON.
The Minor Chord.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
LOVE is only one of the rays
The prisms of Deity show ;
Truth is only one of the bays
Where the soul-flotillas go;
Duty only one of the ways
The Walkers of Wisdom know.
Serenity knoweth nor love nor hate,
And the High Tide is serene ;
Truth retards nor hurries Fate,
And Fate hath ever been ;
Duty must in the dry creek wait,
And never the range hath seen.
“ Can Love the avalanohe suspend ? ”
Say the climbers through the snow.
“Can Truth advise of a journey’s end
Beyond her lamp-light’s glow ?
Can Duty a chart or a compass lend
Where only the condors go ? ”
There’s a minor chord in the peal of bells,
A sad, a ribald, a stark ;
There is hyssop, besides the immortelles,
Rimming the tarns of Dark :
Sunny the ranges and soothing the dells,
But list! the death-dog’s bark !
Red lavas under the sea-floor creep
With love-lode never alloyed ;
Hourly, by cranes of the Over-Deep
Is a pigmy Truth destroyed.
Yea, Duty had best to the shallows keep !
Say the Sounders of the Void.
Suns in their time into dust disperse,
Singers to sots degrade J
Satanic war is freedom’s nurse,
Revenge hath justice made.
There’s a minor chord in the universe,
In its spectrum band a shade.
A flying snake was the lark, the dove !
Man was an ape uncouth ;
The rut of the wilderness fathered love,
The fraud of magicians, truth ;
And Duty the smoke is, left above
Suttees of gelded youth.
“ When slack Love spares the strangling weeds,
When old sure salves grow sour,
And pale gods would the red new needs
Of wakening man o’erpower,
Duty must more than tell her beads ! ”
Say the Watchers on the Tower.
The night-soot falls on the demon’s plume
That at dawn was an angel’s wing ;
Through a lap of light and a lap of gloom
The sinner, the saintly spring,
To the lit hill-top or the dank dale-tomb,
As the gad-fly forces sting.
“ A harder brain than Love’s must sort
The fair folk from the stark ;
A blinder eye than Truth’s extort
Its glimmers from the Dark ; •
Barnacled Duty were better in port ! ”
Say the captains of the Ark.
Truth is a season’s scattering rose ;
Night is the dam of day ;
Ahriman leaps from his dark repose
Ormuz and Love to slay ;
God in the cell and the cosmos grows,
But so doth Divine Decay !
Yet through their laps of day and night
As dappled our souls career,
A hope grows strong, as the dead stars light
(’Tis only a hope, you fear ?)
That a dominant chord of Truth and Right
Shall ring at the last port clear.
A hope, yet more than a weakling’s wile
To gladden a dirge’s close.
That Duty is more than an old slave’s guile
To temper a master’s blows,
And that Truth is a lotus afloat on a Nile
Where Love for ever flows !
VICTORIA.
BERNARD O’DOWD.


TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Club Rum.
Dog Head Stout. King’s Liqueur Whisky,
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
Other Model* mom 7/6 to 40/-
Catalooube Sent Free.
MELBA
the ACCORDEON with
The Mellow Tone.
I. just perfection for song accompaniments,
Danes and Picnic Music. The organ-like
tone of time instruments is attained by the
nee of Ball Metal Reeds which era hand
fitted and tuned.
3 Popular Models.
THE ORGAN-TONED MELBA
Sects Bell Metal Reeds, price 33/6, postfree.
THE DANCE KING.
t acts Bell Metal Reeds, price 30/-, post frea.
THE PICNIC MODEL.
t eats Bell Metal Reeds, price 15/-, poet free.
ALLAN & CO., 276 Collins St., Melb. J
DR. J. COLDS BROWNE’S
The Original anti Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
witti each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
-1/I*. 2/8 & 4/6
jfg
Checks and
arrests Fever,
Croup, Ague.
The Best
Remedy
known for
00UQH8, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS.
Acts like a charm In
DIARRHOEA, and Is the only
in CHOLERA and DYSENTERY .
DINNE FORDS]
Magnesia
j
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequent)*
of numerous imi.
tations purchaser!
must see that
“ Dinnerord & Co."
fa on every-bo ttl*
and label.
fgjfgj
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’S, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Prize Medals.,
Works s Birming'ham, I *Eng > land,
j
These series oh
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. 1 hey glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
Of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
ITISM
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY.
GOUT, RHEUMATISM,
SCIAtrCA, LUMBAGO*
NEURALGIA.
fgj
GOUT AND
RHEUMATIC
They Neuer Fait.
They Always Cure.
fgj
The only, true and safe remedy for Gout and
Rheumatism that has stood the test of'time
AH Chemists and Stores at i/ij St 2/9perbox
Proprietors. PROUT * 60., 229. Strand,
London. England
hi
EHEEianni
GMMKTC IffilAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthraa,Nervcns Contis,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
B?,J«sg£ by CfRIMAULT & Co’s INDIAN CIGAR*
ETTES. & oJ d by all Chnnists.
CANT
B
BEAT
RIAR
PIPES
ALL SHAPES
I/- EACH POST FREE |/2
Quality Not Better
in a
Guinea Pipe
WICK SIMMONS
sroA/ey.
STOREKEEPERS* roeACCChYrST.i
SHOULD SEND FOR OUR TRADE LIST
\
/
ml
X
< Bag G >
Borated Goldenseal
Compound
A safe and simple rerriedy for'
Bronchitis, Catarrh, Hay Fever
inflammations, Irritations, ulcer*
ations of ALL mucous membranes
or linings of tlio nose, throat,
stomach or urinary organs.
AT CHEMISTS
Why not cure yourself
Treatise with jaeh bottle
or mailed on request.
Ha Brans Chemical Co.
Qadnrati Ghio.
B.S.A.
A N Australian’s Two Hands—THE LONE
Hand and THE BULLETIN. You can’t
do without either, and they both cost the same.
That reminds me!
I MUST GET
f
BEHHMSMLL&
CARBIDE.
For First-class Results use Best Scandinavian
“PERNIX” CARBIDE.
Addresses of Merchants distributing- it can be obtained
from AUGUST BLUMENTHAL LIMITED, 62 Pitt
Street, Sydney, Sole Agents for Australia.
FROOTOIDS
Cure Headache, Indigestion, Constipa-
tion, and Biliousness. They are elegant
in appearance and pleasant to take;
they are immensely more valuable than
an ordinary aperient; they remove from
the blood, tis&ues, and interna) organs,
waste poisonous matter that is clogging
them and choking the channels that lead
so and from them. Frootoids are
THE BEST
aperient medicine to take when any
Congestion or Blood Poison is present,
or when Congestion of the Brain or
Apoplexy is present or threatening. They
have been tested, and have been proved
to afford quick relief in such cases when
other aperients have not done any good
at all. Frootoids are absolutely un-
rivalled for
FAMILY
use ; their beneficial effects are evident
by the disappearance of headache—a
bright cheery sense of perfect health
taking the place of sluggish depressed
feelings, by the liver acting properly, and
by the food being properly digested.
Frootoids are a very economical
MEDICINE.
A dose taken once a week, at bed-time,
is highly beneficial. They act splendidly
on the Liver. A constipated habit of
body will be completely cured if the
patient will on each occasion, when
suffering, take a dose of Frootoids in-
stead of an ordinary aperient. The
sufferer thus gradually becomes quite
independent of Aperient Medicines.
Price 1/6. From all Chemists and
Medicine Vendors, and W. G. Hearne &
Co., Ltd., Geelong, Victoria.
tbe Centories-
SINGLETON S EYE OINTMENT.
me since 1596.
m
Autealian BHgfat, Faffing Slashes, Weak Sight
f«r i<» bigtOT.v—the book is free—or write
S- GREEK, 210, Lambeth Road, Loudon, Bag.
ssa
Manufacturers
of
Fireproof
Safes.
Strongroom
Doors.
■:
Government
Contractors.
WEARNE & BREAKSPEAR,
296 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
YOU REQUIRE A STIMULANT.
Doctors recommend Port Wine for Invalids.
V.A.V.BudgerreePoft
Nature's Gift.
!TAV?
fills this prescription.
(Refuse substitutes.)
Don’t think it is too cheap.
Buy a bottle and compare
with other brands at a greater
cost.
The secret is—we grow,
make and bottle this Wine,
thereby saving you middle-
men’s profits.
If your hotel or store does
not stock “ Budgerree Port,”
send us a P. 0.0, for 18s.,
and we will forward you a
dozen properly packed with-
out delay.
VICTORIAN ASSOCIATED
VINEYARDS CO.,
Growers and Merchants,
Basement, 78 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
And at 19 McKILLOP STREET, MELBOURNE, VIC.
fgj
Superior to
INJECTIONS
iCUBEBS sad
COPAIBA.
r Cures the same
diseases without
inoenrenience
in
48 hours, {
Each Capsule hears the Pane 2®“
gfj


Made in Australia
B
<v
cc\.
slii^
HR:
We manufacture in Australia
many rubber goods that are
required in every-day use.
They are made from the best
rubber, and the processes
are right up-to-date and
•nrety for good work.
The lines we make include
Packings, Jointings,
Gaskets, Elastic Stockings,
Wristlets, Rubber Sponges,
Calf Feeders, etc.
' Jo** send an a postcard indicating 1 in which
line* you are interested, and w© will forward our
price lists and samples. It’s worth while.
PERDRIAU RUBBER CO., LTD.,
“Tbs Best House for All Rubber Goods,”
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
fgj
House, Long-Distance and all kinds of Telephone
Equipment In stock—Low Prices.
Dynamos, Motors, Cables and Wires, and every-
thing in Electrical Supplies on hand.
WRITE FOR PRICE LISTS TO
T. K. STEANES, 37-43 Pitt Street, Sydney.
DICK’S PATENT
BELTING
THE ORIGINAL AND
GENtHKE BALATA.
TRADIc.
g. ALA T/\
MARK
The STRONGEST and most EFFICIENT yet produced
Every Beit GUARANTEED. As a gnard against ioteior
imitations, look for the TRADE MARK on every few feet.
importers: Janies Hardie & eo. f
West Circular Quay, Sydney, and at Meibourne.
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS—New
Series IY., V., VI. Packet of Twelve, 6G;
Packet of Ten. sd.
fgj
CRUTCHING MADE EASY
WITH
THE
HAND-POWER MACHINES.
VARIOUS MODELS.
Scad at once tor Catalogues and Prices to—
DALGETY & COMPANY, LTD
fgj
Agents for NAW. and Queensland; also tor TANOYE’S and CLAYTON and
SMUTTLEWORTH MACHINERY.
Tangyes Oil Engine.
Clayton & Shuttleworth
Portable Steam Engine.
ENGINES FOR THE MM 8 STATION
TANQYES Oil Engin©— Works on Ordinary Kerosene,
Very simple to operate—Thoroughly Reliable.
CLAYTON & SHUTTLEWORTH Portable
Steam Engine --Superior in every detail to any
other Engine of its dass—Very popular for Sawmilling.
Blake’s Improved Steam
and Belt-Driven Pumps
for Every Possible Service.
mm
Boiler Feed, Tank or Light Service,
Mining, Horizontal and Vertical.
Hydraulic Pressure, Combined Air
and Circulating Pumps, Single
and Duplex.
H. P. GREGORY & CO.
Engineers and
Machinery Merchants.
SYDNEY,
a a
King Street,
Largest stock in the Commonwealth of
Engineers and Sawmiiiers’ Machinery.
Sol* Agent* for Australia—
Lodge & Shipley Co.—High-Speed Lathes.
John Stlrk & Sons—High-Speed Lathes, etc.
Mark Flather Planer Co.—Shaping Machines.
National Machinery Co.—Bolt and Nut
Machinery, etc.
Sole Agents for Victoria—
Wm. Jessop & Sons, Ltd.—Mining and
Engineers' Tool Steel.
Richard Garrett & Sons, Ltd. —Portable
and Traction Engines.
Large stocks of ail the above carried.
Ewer"
Mining Winches* to lOin. Cylinders always in stock.
BROS
(Sydney) Limited,
109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
45 Adelaide Street, BRISBANE.
(Melbourne) PropyLtd.
153-7 William Street, MELBOURNE.
Commercial Bank Chambers,
St. George’s Terrace
7 Pirie Street, ADELAIDE.
1
11
THE NEm BUILDING MATERIAL.
KEY-LOCK
BRAND
'V
mm
9
' :
BLUE SUMP FUSE.
GELIGNITE,
CONCENTRATORS,
JIGS & CLASSIFIERS
fgj
1
m
fgj
DETONATORS,
ROOK DRILLS,
COMPRESSORS
263 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY; 1525 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
FOR
MINING REQUISITES.
If®?.
ID
