

fasfd
R. G. WATKINS & 00„
107 Kent Stireet. Sydney,
- FOR—
Mining 1 and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
sr
Herbert’s Capstan
and Turret Lathes.
Save Labor. Increase Output.
535 Kent Street, Sydney,
AND
486 Collins Street, Melbourne.
S.A. Agent: C. C. DELAND, Bowman’s Bldgs.. Adelaide.
—3*s '
(jadley’s Orient fjotel.
PIONEER
LEATHER BELTING
(.r wiAjrrßßi).
d. C. Ludowici & Son, Ld.
ll7 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
sd
Take it back,
I must have
HUTTON*
PineAppk Brand
HAMS ®
BACON.
CHUBB'S NEW DOOR LATCH
WITH THE SMALLEST OF KEYS.
JUNKET inside from these genuine Tablets is
recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the diges-
tive organs.
iJf3GMaZO
ďf
dsf
For INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially-prepared Tablets acts most
beneficially when taken daily after meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
ozB/
igjvy. 'Tft eo WtfrDQJ SMK/Wfi)/^
ntro
A*
b s &
A
6
K
* AF
<S>
$
&
Money advanced upon all Securities at Reasonable
Rates of Interest*
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
THIS COMPANY WAS FORMED TO SUPPRESS USURY.
And at MELBOURNE, BRISBANE and NEWCASTLE.
BENSDORPS
Royal
Dutch
ƒds
is the Queen of all Cocoas
FOP^
Aroma,Strengtfu'Purit;
PABCO
PABCO is simply MALTHOID plus Asbestos,
and can be finished White, Terracotta or Green,
In summer tbe heat-resisting* virtues of its
ivoi*y tint render it cool and delightful, while in
winter time its storm-resisting* qualities render
it cosy and w&UHn to live under.
THE PARAFFINE PAINT COMPANY, CtitALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.—D. S. EVANS, Australasian Manager.
SUPPER LAGER.
THORNE’S WHISKY
and is Good
HELIDON SPA WATER
Three reasons why HELIDON SPA triumphs as a Perfect Table Water: \
Ist Rapid absorption. 2nd -Rapid circulation. 3rd-Rapid elimination. '
DEWHURST 8 HALLORAN, 1t4.,
Aint;.
The Bulletin
Vol —No. 1635.]
[Thursday, June 15, 1911.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


SEND IN YOUR ORDER FOR
HOME UNIVERSITY LIBRARY OF MODERN KNOWLEDGE
A series of New Books specially written by High Authorities, in cloth ts. 3d. each, posted Is. 4d eech
History, Science, Art, Letters, Social Science and Philosophy.— Reviewed on “ lied Page ” Btolbtin
Id Tolumes now ready-
Parliament, by Sir 0. Ilbert.
Shakespeare, by John Masefield.
French Rerolution, by H. Belloc.
History of War and Peace, by G. H. Perris.
The Stock Exchange, be F. W. Hirst.
Irish Nationality, by Mrs. J. It. Green.
Modern Geography, by Dr. M. Newbiein.
Polar Exploration, by Dr. W. S. Bruce.
Evolution of Plants, by Dr. D. 11. Scott.
The Socialist Movement, by J. It. Macdonald.
10 Volumes to be published shortly—
Conservatism, by Lord Hugh Cecil.
The Opening Op of Africa, by Sir H. H. Johnston.
Mediaeval Europe, by H. W. 0. Davis.
History of the Papacy, by Rev. Wm. Barry.
Mohammedanism, by Prof. D. S. M rgoliouth
The Science of Wealth, by J. A. Hobsen.
Health and Disease, by Dr. L. Mackenzie.
Intro, to Mathematics, by A. N. Whitehead.
The Animal World, by Prof. P. W. Gamble
Evolution, by Prof. J. A. Thomson.
The demand fur U
ROBERTSON’S,
. large; ....
BOOKSELLERS,
vr aamuxonal supplies to arrive in four weeks
238 PITT STREET,
HUDSON’S
“EUMENTHOL JUJUBES.”
The Great Antiseptic and Prophylactic
suited for Old and Young.
For COUGHS, COLDS, SORE THROATS,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA, and the
PREVENTION OF CONSUMPTION.
The Medical
Press and Cir-
cular says:—
“ These Jujubes
should be of
ial service
to Leeturers,
Public Singers
and Speakers,
and indeed to
all who are
called upon to
use their voices
frequently for
pro lou ged
periods.”
The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
The Trachea or
Windpipe.
fsdsfd
0. The Bronchial
Tubes of a dis-
sected Lung.
D. The Lobe of one
of the Lungs.
Solti by Chemists, tins 1/6 post free on receipt of
stamps from HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL
OOMPANY, LTD., 19
THE RED PAGE
AUSTRALIAN, WRITERS—2.
George Gordon McCrae
The 29tn May last was the 7Sth anni-
versary of George Gordon MeCrae’s birth,
lie is the last survivor of a notable group
of writers who made the beginnings of'Aus-
tralian literature in the '6o’s. The friend
of Gordpn, Clarke, Horne, Daley, and many
others; a friend* l indeed to Kendall; the
father of Hugh McCrae and Dorothy
McCrae—poets both of them—these facts
alone entitle him to honor in the land of his
adoption. In addition, he has written a
large amount of verse and prose himself.
One item is believed to be the longest
poem ever written in Australia. McCrae
does not boast of record-breaking; but he
has always written to please himself, and
he likes space. Australia, a country of
magnificent distances, insists on brevity in
- verse. Consequently a large part of
McCrae’s work is unknown to the public.
The house at Hawthorn (Vic.) in
which he lives is called “Anchorfield,” after
the village near. Leith, Scotland, where he
was born. His father was one of the
select body of lawyers known as Writers
to the Signet. About the end of 1840
the legal McCrae brought his family to Mel-
bourne, where a medical brother had pre-
ceded him. They arrived in March, 1841,
and, after a short stay in the little town,
they settled down on a station property in
the wilds at Arthur’s Seat, Port Phillip.
Seven years on the station gave the boy a
love for the bush and a keen sympathy with
the blacks.
Appointed to the Survey Department in
ISSI, he was engaged-in field work on Black
Thursday, when all Victoria seemed to be
in flames. McCrae and his companions
had an exciting time and narrowly escaped
the fire. In 1554 he joined the staff of the
Audit Office; subsequently moved on to
the Chief Secretary’s Department, and be-
came Deputy Registrar-General. After
nearly 40 years’ service, relieved by a trip
to Europe and two visits to Mauritius and
Seychelles, he retired.
No doubt .McCrae began to w r rite verse
at an early date, but his first book, Two
Old Men’s Tales, was not published till
1865. Then came Balladeadro (1866)
and Mamba (1867) —attempts to preserve
in verse some legends of the Port Phillip
aboriginals. “Karakorok,” a continuation
of that work, remains unpublished. Long-
fellow had plausible material for his ro-
mantic treatment of the “noble red man,”
but McCrae could not make his dusky
heroes and their lubras into anything re-
sembling , Pocahontas and Minnehaha. He
told these two stories in the metre of The
Lady of the Lake —that which 'Saintsbury
calls “the ever-obliging-but-not-to-be-quite-
trusted-to-run-alone-octosyllable.” Scott var-
ied the pauses, introduced lyrics, and did his
best to avoid monotony; he had good stories
with an historical background, and yet he
knew on the rise of Byron that the day of
such verse as his was over. Small wonder
that McCrae, with less advantages, failed
half a century latpr!
The Man in the Iron Mash (1878) is a
metrical treatment of a standing mystery
which still has interest for the curious. An
interlude, which describes morning at sea
in the tropics, wms printed by Longfellow
in a collection of poems on places. The
feeling for atmospheric effects is very well
conveyed in that and other passages; and
is displayed with a wealth of color in “A
Rosebud from the Garden of Taj,’* which*
required four numbers of The Melbourne
Review (1878 and ’B3) for its blossoming.
The “Rosebud" deserves re-publication
for the sake of the fine procession of pic-
tures such as these: —
I Saw the haughty Genghis Khan . -
Pavilioned round with purple silk,
O’er which the fire of jewels ran—-
I saw his charger, white as milk,
His Tartar guards, with glancing spears
And steel caps glittering in the sun;
His chiefs, astrologers and seers,
And all the glories he had won.
Next Tamerlane the Mighty^-who,
A stern-browed, pale, imperial ghost—
Limped slowly past through mists of blue —
A scourge, a terror and a boast.
And Sultan Babur, all ablaze
With mingled fire of gold and gems,
Whose stolen suns of burning rays
Were snatched from fallen diadems.
Many of the shorter poems contributed to
The Australasian and The Bulletin could
be added to make a volume which many
Australians would like to have. It would
represent McCrae at his best. He. excels
in little pictures, in phrases whiqh bring a
whiff of fresh air and bit of blue sky to the
reader.
McCrae has also written dramas — Kas-
cambo, founded on a romance by Comte
Xavier de Maistre, and Charlotte Corday,
a spectacular play which was ready to be
staged in Melbourne, with Ada Ward in
the name part, but her sudden departure
blighted the author’s hopes of theatrical suc-
cess. He was fascinated by Mauritius and
Seychelles, and wrote verses and'stories for
publication there, besides a history of Sey-
chelles from the date of its discovery—•
which reposes with the other manuscripts.
A novel, “Afloat and Ashore,” ran through
The Sydney Mail in 1879, but has not been
republished.
Of the writers whom he has known
McCrae has many stories to tell, and space
will be found later on for some of his remin-
iscences. Tlje photograph reproduced here
was taken a few weeks ago, and the speci-
men of his pen-drawing represents “Orion”
Home when he was a gold commissioner in
Victoria.
A SAILOR’S SIMILE.
When Mary trips across the green
Her petticoat begins to show,
White as the rushing surges seen
Before the prow like drifted snow.
But when her arm she waves to me ;
Her mantle struggling in the wind,
Recalls a topsail bached for me
One day when Fate was more than kind.
G. G. McC.
Lilley’s Magazine
Prospectuses, whither of mines or maga-
zines, are not to be taken seriously. Their
object is to arouse curiosity, to whet the
appetite and draw the reader to the bait.
The experienced did not, therefore, expect
too much when Norman . Lilley promised a
magazine that would not be like others, and
were not greatly disappointed when the first
number of Lilley’s Magazine (published at
Bond-street, Sydney) appeared on the Ist
June. The contents may have been written
to please the authors, and not “some editor’s
badly-founded idea of what the public
wants”; they certainly are not “the best
work of Australian writers and designers.”
The way being cleared, it can be said that
the maga. has some items worth reading—
verses by L. H. Allen, C. Brennan, and
Furnley Maurice; a letter of Daley’s, an
article on Tyson’s millions by Frank Cotton,
one of J. H. Ramsay’s sketches, a little note
by N.L. himself on “A Library Purchased”
—and some drawings by Harry Julius and
Mick Paul worth looking at. A short piece
of violent prose by Hugh McCrae would have
been better in verse. On the whole, the
articles are of newspaper rather than the
usual magazine length. If this policy is
maintained, the quality will need to be
higher. Any honest attempt to interest Aus-
tralians in the work of their own writers
and artists deserves support. Lilley has
many well-wishers, and may be able to turn
his experiment into a valuable magazine.
W. S. Gilbert
There was comic opera before Gilbert
and Sullivan, but the history, of that
genre in Britain practically begins with
their work in the eighteen seventies. The
humor and poetry of William Scliwenck
Gilbert, wedded to the music of Arthur Sulli-
van, came as “a sweet boon” to audiences
whose best fare had
consisted of adapta-
tions from the
French. The Gilber-
tian comedy is essen-
tially British. The
world in which it
moves, whether called
Titipu, Barataria or
Utopia, is a logical
perversion of the
everyday life of Bri-
tain. It satirised the
people and institu-
tions of the inferior-
region with an , abun-
dance of wit, yet
with such perfect good
breeding that no one
was hurt. It was made
for its day, and re-
newed regularly until
it became mechanical,
and its vogue was
over some time before
Gilbert passed out,
bravely, at the age of
75.
He inherited a
taste for ink from his
father, William Gil-
bert, a fairly prolific
writer, now forgotten.
At\ school he distin-
guished himself in
verse competition, and,
GILBERT,
by “Spy ”in Vanity
Fair.
after graduating at London University, and
the Bar, he broke out in the pages of Fun,
then edited by Tom Hood. “The Yarn of
the 'Nancy Bell” and most of the other Bab
Ballads appeared there, with his own illus-
trations. A burlesque was accepted for St.
James’s Theatre in 1866, which proved a
success, and thenceforward Gilbert devoted
himself to writing for the stage. A series
of good comedies and extravaganzas estab-
lished his reputation before the famous part-
nership began in 1875 with Thespis, which
has not been printed. From The Sorcerer,
in 1877, to Utopia Limited, in 1893, Gilbert
and Sullivan opera was an institution qf
great profit and amusement, and has had no
equals.
Gilbert’s librettos w’ere dramatic ; they had
a well-constructed plot, and the lyrics were
relevant to its development. The satire was
often directed against matters of the mo-
ment, but a good deal of it still has point.
Even in Patience, which stabbed the {esthetic
cult of Oscar Wilde, already battered by
public ridicule, lines may be found which
apply to-day, such as Buntkorne’s advice
to aesthetes: —
Be eloquent in praise of the very dull old
days
Which have long since passed away,
And convince ’em if you can that the reign
'of good Queen Anne
Was culture’s palmiest day.
Of course you will pooh-pooh whatever’s
fresh and new,
And declare it’s crude and mean,
For Art stopped short in the cultivated
Court of the Empress Josephine.
And the quintessence of the Too Utterly
Utter poets, who were “fond of uttering
platitudes in stained glass attitudes,” is
given in Bunthorne’s unpublished “Heart
Foam” :
Oh, to be wafted away
From this black Aceldama of sorrow,
Where the dust of an earthy to-day
Is the earth of a dusty to-morrow.
Gilbert, a country gentleman and a magis-
trate, lightly llicked. the aristocrats who
“did nothing in particular, and did it very
well”; but even if there should come a time
when- —
Prime Ministers and such as they
Grew like asparagus in May
And dukes were three a penny,
he would not have the multitude forget
that —
Hearts just as pure and fair
May beat in Belgrave Square
As in the lowly air
Of Seven Dials.
The music helped amazingly in the theatrical
success, and reached a high level in The
Yeoman of the Guard; but the bare words
of the whimsical operas provide entertain-
ment, and, with the earlier plays, will make
good reading for many a day.
His patter was of the liveliest, the puns
frequent but not obtrusive, and he rhymed
with the dexterity of “Ingoldsby.” Some,
of the lyrics are flawless specimens of light
verse. “Take a pair of sparkling- eyes” in
The Gondoliers, “Love is a plaintive song”
in Patience, Mad Margaret’s song in Ruddi-
gore, and a number of others, have an inde-
pendent value.
Pooh Bah still flourishes, and “Gilbertian”
is an adjective which will serve while the
Savoyard’s travesty of reality is mimicked
by life.
Result of the Best Prose Competition held
over until next week.
* * * •
William Bede (London) writes to correct
an error in his letter on the Australian ar-
tists at the R.A. (1/6/T1). It was written
after a hurried inspection a week before
Press Day and without a catalogue. In
the crowd of pictures he missed those of
Tom Roberts and Julian Ashton. He sends
a collection of newspaper criticisms on the
show, which are unanimous in condemning
the Academy for skying Lambert’s picture,
‘The Mask.” The Times critic says that
it is the best nude in the exhibition, and the
best picture Lambert has yet painted.
The Early History-df the Sydney Munici-
pal Council, by Charles H. Bertie, has been
issued by the Council in celebration of its
70th birthday. Bertie has dug up many de-
tails of interest to Sydueians, and his well-
illustrated brochure is a useful contribution
to the history of the city. The most attract-
ive character in his gallery is John Rae,
the second Town Clerk, who wrote a good
deal of verse and printed it in book form
himself. Extracts are given from a citi-
zen's protest against shifting the dead to
make way for a Town Hall in 1845. This
specimen of floroatc prose comes like a voice
from an eighteenth century grave:—
Gracious heavens! Is it possible that in the
nineteenth century, when the universal diffusion of
human intelligence and knowledge is declared to be
the Ultima Thule of sublunary blessedness, in the
promotion of which her most Christian Majestv
Queen Victoria of all the lords, temporal and
spiritual, of her Imperial Parliament, profess to
combine, that her Majesty’s representative in Botany
Bay should be so abandoned to all sense of decency,
allegiance and duty to her most gracious Majesty
and her most loyal subjects in this remote territory,
as to propose a subject so monstrous, so inhuman
and un-Christian as the sacrilegious spoliation of
the sacred repositories of the silent dead.
Gracious heavens!!
* * * *
“Narranghi Boori”: I am loth to throw
ink at a fellow-rhymester; but H. C. McKay
has “pushed” me with his “Dawn” (“Red
Page” 18/5/11). He says:—
I watched her steal across the sky at break-
ing of the day
Certainly a suitable time for Dawn to get
busy ! ‘; \
The glances danced from out her eyes like
little cats at play
The metaphor of that line is perfect, but as
weak as its own kittens.
I saw her draw the veils of night, and raise
her sandal-shoe
To tread the little stars to dust and let the
daylight through.
The poet may be seen musing and walking
to and fro on the ceiling in order to get the
swing of that couplet.
McKay is also laying an information. It
is that of wilful destruction of celestial pro-
perty, to wit, “Crushing of the stars to
dust,” by “ reluctant and faltering feetf ”
I find the feet not guilty! Finally, the suu
rises and the dawn becomes a heap of man-
gled remains:—-
I saw her sink before his car, and die beside
his wheels. .
Here the sun is charged with the murder of
a girl named Dawn by furiously driving a
car over her whilst the accused was walking
about with faltering feet. Sun discharged.
H. C. McKay is now arrainged for Meta-
phorical Misprision.
[The writer of “Dawn,” upon being shown
the above charge, pleaded “Not guilty,” burst
into tears, and vowed that he would never
do it again.]
* * * *
The Hoe printing press made a fortune
for the late Robert Hoe, and a lot of the
money was spent by him in acquiring rare
products of earlier presses. The sale of his
library began on the 24th April in New
York, and was expected to last a fortnight.
The illustrated catalogue, sold at £l, shows
that the sale will be the greatest of its kind
on record. Hoe possessed a Bible printed on
vellum by Gutenberg, the alleged inventor
of printing .(1450-5) ; a Lactantius printed
in 1465; Malory’s Morte d' Arthur, printed
by Caxton in 1485,; and 70 other books by
the earliest printers. The list of treasures,
including the Pembroke “Hours,” written in
1440, miksals and other laboriously written
and illuminated parchments of the Middle
Ages; manuscript by Burns, Poe, Carlyle,
and Cromwell; the first folios of Shakes-
peare and ever so many rare first editions of
English and French books make the biblio-
phile’s mouth water.
Reports of the first days of the sale give
very high prices. The Gutenberg Bible went
for £lO,OOO. which must be the highest price
paid for a book, or near it. Blake’s Milton
brought £lBOO, the first French edition of
The Decameron £l4OO, the Kilmarnock edi-
tion of Burns £ll6O, a boyish effusion of W\
Cullen Bryant’s The Embargo, bought bv
Hpe-for £5, was sold for £670. The first edi-
tion of Gray’s Elegy, originally published at
6d., brought £9OO. the Caxton Morte d ’
Arthur £8560, and 10 illuminated manu-
scripts, £24,600. ’ '
* * * * St
Gambler's Gold, by Arthur Wright (Book-
stall Co.: Is.), supplies a fair amount of
racing, fighting, love and murder for the
money, together with a scene in a two-up
school, which is new in fiction. The story
is told in a business-like fashion.


A>
<a
M
m
(t
No. 18716— Sterling Silver-mounted
Hand Mirror, Empire and Knot Design,
No. 1867 A —Cut
Jar, Sterling
Silver Lid,
Glass Powder
8/6, 10/6.
Terms
Spot
Cash.
For Silverware Satisfaction
PUT PERFECT FAITH IN
Anthony Horderns’ Famous Low Prices.
No. 1871 E Sterling Silver-
mounted Hair Brush, Em-
pire Design, Special
Bristles,
No. 1827 A —Sterling Silver
Hand Mirror, Fancy Design, 10/» I//“
No. 1873- Sterling Silver-
mounted Hair Brush, /
Bamboo Design, •“*/’
S9lA— Sterling Silver Hand
Mirror, Fancy Design,
28/6.
No. 1867 L —Cut Glass Powder Jar,
Sterling Silver Lid,
6/6', 7/6, 8/6, to 21/=
No. 1871 H—Sterling Silver*
mounted Hair Brush,
Daisy Design, Special ~
Bristles,
No. IS4BA— Square Cut Glass Perfume Bottles,
Silver Cap Top. 3 sizes.
Height: 4in. sin. 6in.
• 6/6 7/6 9/6
Sfo. 1876 A. —Sterling Silver Cloth Brush, , f iA
Empire Design. 11 j O.
Fifteen Shillings
expended at The
New Palace Em-
porium will go
further than a
Sovereign ex-
pended else-
where. We prove
this to every
s h o p per who
enters our store.
Consult our
Illustrated Price
Lists, post free
on request; they
place our im-
mense stock at
the command of
everyone in
Australia.
m
'Ssm.
?f<m
No. 1848.— Cut Glass Scent-Bottle, Silver Cap Top.
Height: 3in. 4in. sin.
4/6 6/6 9/6
llffllllllllllllllllllllllllllllil'i' 1 '' 1 '
12/=
.No. 1876 B.—Sterling Silver=Mounted Cloth
Brush, Fancy Design.
No. 187 ID.—
Sterling
Silver-
Mounted
Hair Brush,
Rococo
Design.
11/6, 14/6
18/6,
No. 1871 A. —Sterling Silver Hend
Mirror, Empire Wreath Design.
No.' 1871 G. —Sterling Silver-
Mounted Hair Brush, Umpire
and Knot Design,
Special Bristles. O
No. 187IP.—Sterling: Silver-
Mounted Hair Brush,
Chased f ,
Design. *
“No. 1871. Silver-
JVlountcii Hair Brush,
.Empire Wreath t-7 //t '■»'> /a.
Design. 17/6, 22/6.
■
V-
■B
No. 17S1B.— Sterling Silver Hand 97 yc
Mirror, Empire Design. X//0
& SONS,
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace
Brickfield Hill,.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
PHOSFERINE
The Remedy of Kings
• •
tft
WMm.
The Greatest of all Tonics
A PROVEN REMEDY FOR
Debility
Influenza
Indigestion
Sleeplessness
Exhaustion
Neuralgia
Maternity Weakness
Premature Decay
Mental Exhaustion
Loss of Appetite
Lassitude
Neuritis
Faintness
Brain-Fag
Anaemia
Backache
Rheumatism
Headache
Hysteria
Sciatica
and disorders consequent upon a reduced state of the nervous system.
A further mark of Royal Appreciation has again dis-
tinguished Phosferine by the bestowal of a
ROYAL WARRANT TO SUPPLY PHOSFERINE
TO HIS MAJESTY
THE KING OF SPAIN
This world-renowned restorative medicine has
already for many years been supplied by
ROYAL COMMANDS
ďsf
To the Royal Family
H.I.M. the Empress of Russia
H.M. the King of Greece
H.M. the Queen of Roumania
H.I.M. the Dowager Empress of Russia
The Imperial Family of China
H.R.H. the Grand Duchess of Hesse
sfd
H.I.H. the Grand Duchess Olga of Russia
And the Principal Royalty and Aristocracy throughout the World
PUBLIC CAUTION
Purchasers of Phosferine (spelled Phosferine) should insist
upon being supplied with the genuine preparation, as
supplied to the King of Spain and nearly all the Royal
Families of Europe. The fact that Phosferine is The
Royal Tonic assures customers that it is highly com-
mended by the greatest living physicians. When asking
for PHOSFERINE see that the article you get is the
genuine and spelt
PHOSEERINE
Refuse any preparation of a similar sounding name
which may be offered from interested motives. The
original and only genuine PHOSFERINE is prepared by
ASHTON & PARSONS,”" LTD., LONDON.
The 2/6 size contains nearly four times the 1/- size.
Richardson Cushion Frame, Anti-Jar Ball-
Rearing Roller Skates.
Used exclusively in all of the largest and most successful rinks in America,
and bv all the Champions of the World, fast and fancy. RICHARDSOJN
SKATES have held all World’s Records for 94 years. Write for Catalogue.
Tells how to open and operate Roller Rinks.
Richardson Ball-Bearing SR .te Co., 311 Michigan Street, Chicago, U.S.A.
RICHARDSON”
'T
CHICAGO
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
Established 1849.
HAS MONET TO LEND
On Security or Freehold or Leasehold
City or Suburban Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands or on the S e ®uHty
L o OWE r s e T aS CUR y RE NT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any tine.
Dirkctor*— The Hon \\Y Meeks M L.C., Chairman : Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman : Benjamin
' Short Jo : The Hon James BurntM.L.C. : The Hon. R. J. Black, M L C.; The Hm F. E. Winchcoinbe M.L.C.;
Adrian Knox. Ksq.. K.C. General Manager ana Actuary : Richard Teece. F.l.a F P.A FS &.
HEAD OFFICE, S 7 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. H - w - APPERLY, Secre y
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau.
Full Particulars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Climate Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Crown Land suitable for Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on
Better Terms than elsewhere in Australia. /
Corner of Queen and
George Streets. Brisbane.
T. C. TROEDSON,
General Director.
Sydney Branch Office at 116 Pitt Street.—Local Director: A. MESTON.
Aa<
Choose the best when buying
SocKs, StocKings, and Under®
wear —
Buy
sfd
ďf
the guarantee that they are
Australasian-wool, and made in
With $2221 £’ you have
unshrinkable, are all-
England.
But you have more than this.
Th efjJSSf finish is distinctive —it cannot be imitated. It im-
parts that soft silky feeling which is so comfortable in wear.
“CffArtyi' Stockings, Socks, and Underwear for Men, Ladies, and Children.
wW In a u prices Of Men’s Outfitters, Drapers, and Stores. If your
dealer does not stock he can obtain it from his wholesale house.
In case of difficulty write for "Jason" booklet and name of nearest
Agent to —
Jason Hosiery Co., Leicester, England. <i>
Will Andrade roR BOOKS.
Art of Boxing and Self-Defence, 1/2 ; Gold Hunter’s Adventures in Aus-
tralia 1/9 ; Complete Book of Love Letters, .1/; How to Woo and Win, 1/1,
Astrology Made Easy, 1/1; Money-Making Secrets, 1/1 j Act
Eight Popular Farces, 1/1; Sixteen Amusing Farces, 1/1, Thirteen One Act
Farces 1/1 • Twenty Humorous Dialogues, 1/1; Home Amusements, / ,
“ How Old Mose Counted the Eggs ” and 116 Other Humorous R v c
1/1 ; Famous Dramatic Recitations, 1/1; How Sockery Set » Hen a
other Comic Recitations, 1/1 ; Famous Dialect Recitations, 1/1, 1401 Conun
drums an” Riddles, 1/1; Art’of Ventriloquism 1/1; Hypnotssm
and Cl irvo.vance, 1/1 ; Popular Horse and Cattle Doctor, 1/1 , Hpw to Tear
Animal Tricks, 1/1; What Young People Should Know, Confidential IaIKS,
1/1 • Dr Faulkner’s Original Book of Nature, the only genuine and complete
edition, 3/6, posted 3/9 ; New Tricks with Cards, 1/ ; House P ?^'
hanging, Whitewashing, etc., 1/2; 3000 Priceless Secrets, 1/8, Irish Jpkes
and Witty Sayings, 9d.; Complete Letter Writer for Ladies and Gent
i/. Dancing Without an Instructor, 1/; Lovers Guide to Courtship'.ana
Marriage 1/; Bernard Macfadden’s Physical Training, 2/91 M F° tadd ?? I s .
Buildin" of Vital Power, 5/4 ; Macfadden’s Superb Virility of Manhood, 5/4 ,
with 60 Photographic Illustrations, 1/9; Bag
Punching, lOd. ; All Steele Rudd s Aus-
tralian Books, 1/1; Road Map of Victoria,
l/l.
ANDRADE’S
MINSTREL SHOW,
or Burnt Cork
Comicalities.
A Splendid Collec-
tion of Comic Songs,
Jokes, Conundrums,
Stump Speeches,
Monologues, Dia-
logues, Farces, Inter-
ludes and After-
pieces for Minstrel
Entertainments.
1/-
Post Free.
1/2.
%0-AND ANY BOOK
YOU WANT.
Mention The Bulletin.
address. Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
Above prices include postage to any
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne.
"EVERY MAN. WOMAN and
CHILD KNOWS WHAT
CLEMENTS TONIC
DID FOR ME!”
READ THIS LETTER:
36 Morris Street, Williamstown, Melbourne, 21/3/’ll.
CLEMENTS TONIC LTD.
“It is about two years since my illness started. We had just finished loading a
ship with wheat, and were waiting for another to come up to the wharf, when, with-
out any warning, I fell unconscious with convulsions, and was carried home, where I
lay for six hours in that condition, quite as stiff as a dead man, without a relaxation
of any muscles. That was the start of a nine months’ illness for me. The doctor was
soon ‘in attendance, but I believe he was puzzled as to what my complaint was, and
treated me for some spine disease. After a time another doctor examined me, and
said I had Uric Acid, but I believe my complaint was in the spine. After a tune I
was able to get about a little by holding on to the fence. At times I could feel that
mv heart was ceasing to beat, and my head would swim round. Every man woman
and child in this part of Williamstown recollect the bent-up cripple I was, trying to
shuffle along from place to place, and were always ready to help me, for they believed
I was a permanent cripple. One doctor said he could do no more for me, so that if
I were ever to get better it must come from other sources. A neighbor who knew
from experience the value of Clements Tonic bid me try it; six bottles and I began to
feel better and have taken some pounds’ worth of that medicine, but what s that, I
have got my health back, thanks to Clements Tonic No stranger would think I
ever had a day’s illness in my life. My statement in this letter can be backed up bj
business men about here. You can use this as you think fat.
(Signed) FREDERICK JOHN HARDEN.’’
This « but one of ,He many
I, ”, Liver, Poor Appetite, or
Loss of Sleep, Constipatio , stores and Chemists sell Clements Tonic.
Low spirits, take it.


A Tonic Free from
Alcohol
Are you pale, weak, easily tired,
and do you lack nerve power?
Ask your doctor if Ayer’s Sar-
saparilla would not be good for
you. He knows, and will ad-
vise you wisely. Not a drop of
alcohol in this medicine, ft
puts red corpuscles into the
blood, gives steady, even power
to the nerves; and all without
stimulation. Make no mistake.
Take only those medicines the
best doctors endorse. Ask your
own doctor
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass,, U. S. A.
NTJ
PAT
Collison&Co.
PATENTS and TRADE MARKS
obtained In all countries.
483 Collins St., MELBOURNE.
Eagle Chambers, ADELAIDE
Write us for Inventors’ Guide. Established 1877 |
Absolutely Pure.
The very look of
Cerebos Salt suggests
purity, and indicates
the extreme care with
which the process of
manufacture is safe-
guarded.
Cerebos
Salt
Agents—Harrison & Attwood, Sydney.
YOUR EYES!
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
EYE
OINTMENT.
INSTANT
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE IT!
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-. Or by post from
Proprietors, 443 Bourke St., Melbourne.
THE
IDEAL APERIENT
COICRYST
Packets, 3d., 6d. and Is.
ra
MILNERS’ SAFES
have the Largest Sale in the World.
SYDNEY : John Keep & Sons, Ltd., Clarence St.
MELBOURNE : Briscoe & Co., Ltd., Lit. Colhnsbt.
BRISBANE : Webster & Co., Ltd., Mary St.
PERTH : McLean Bros. & Itipff.
Aus. Rep.—T. Nicholls, c/o Sydney Agents.
sfdsdf
BE. SURE YOU GET
BONNINGTON’S
IRISH MOSS.
Most chemists and retailers will give you
Bonnington’s Irish Moss directly you ask for it.
Here and there, however, you will find one who
does not maintain the dignity of the profession,
and who will try to sell you a substitute, on
which he makes a larger profit. You know the
insidious argument, “Yes, I stock Bonnington’s; but have you tried my own
mixture ? It is ‘just as good.’”
Allow no one to deceive you. There is no remedy so good as Bonnington’s
Irish Moss.
FOR THE CHEST, THROAT AND LUNGS.
Try It the next time you have a cold, and you will be satisfied.
[1
HEALTHFUL. ECONOMICAL. CONVENIENT.
BICKFORD S Essence of Coffee,
“OUR. JACK’* Brand.
Obtainable Everywhere.
Fulfils the requirements of the “PURE FOODS" Act.
WO CUPS FOR 116 .
A. M. BICKFORD & SONS, LTD., Pitt St„ Sydney; Currie St„ Adelaide; Elizabeth St,, Melbotirne.
sfd
sfd
“Even with all the salubriousness of this splendid
Australian climate, your women are not
developed iti figure as well as they should be."
—A prominent French writer at a farewell dinner.
PERFECT BUST
development.
IT is the refreshing firmness and delightful
fulness of the feminine form that capti-
vates, and the woman who is most per-
fectly developed is the one who monopolises
the endearments of the opposite sex.
A thin woman is not necessarily plain ; in
fact many thin women are admittedly pretty,
but the admission is always qualified with —
“but, poor thing, she is so terribly thin.”
If your bust lacks development and firm-
ness, and your arms, neck and shoulders are
thin and scrawny, even though your face is
pretty, you invariably take second place to
your more fully-developed, full-bosomed
associates in your own social set. It will
alw'ays be so unless you correct the iin perfec-
tions in your figure.
By following our advice, thousands of weak,
nervous, run-down, anaemic women, who
came to us suffering the ravages of constipa-
tion, biliousness, backache from internal and
functional disorders, and merely skeletons of
what they were to become, have not only been
restored to perfect health, but have been
brought up to their normal weight and devel-
oped to their correct bust, hip and limb pro-
portions.
Let us tell you, absolutely free of charge, how the
same may be done for you. All we ask is that you
enclose a 2d. stamp, arid write for our specially-
illustrated free book, “ Lovely Woman.” We will
also send a Free Sample Treatment.
Full particulars will be posted to you at once.
Our advice costs you nothing. Call if possible.
FAILURE FLESH-FOOD C 0« 8
1103 ASH STREET, SYDNEY,
Rear Equitable Building's.
T
r for all AGES.^I
from the nursery upwards,
HORLICK’S MALTED MILK
is an ideal food-beverage, easily digested,
nourishing, invigorating. It is indis-
-1 pensable to invalids and the aged, and
provides a full diet in sickness.
sfd
Especially valuable
in Hot Climates.
Of all Chemists & Stores.
Samples & Pamphlets:
82, Pitt Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Horlick's Malted Milk
Co.. Slough. Bucks,Eng.
MALTED MILK
STOP
SMOKING!
MOST MEN would cure themselves of
the Tobacco habit if they knew they
could do so easily and without discomfort.
It takes but ten minutes for tobacco to
change the beats of the heart. To keep it
up is to tempt death by Heart Disease,
Nervous Collapse, Tobacco Cancer, and
Stomach, Liver or Kidney Disease.
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a harmless,
vegetable remedy that will make the user
of tobacco in any form absolutely abandon
the habit for good. It not only destroys
the craving, the desire, the appetite for
tobacco, but restores to health the entire
nervous system, and aids nature in entirely
eliminating from the system the Nicotine
Poison.
You Can Try It FREE.
Send 2d. Stamp and we will post you a FREE
SAMPLE, also our FREE BOOKLET— “The
Tobacco Habit and Its Consequences.”
H. SINCLAIR & CO., Dept. G,
Victoria Arcade, Sydney. [i
£1573| 18/9
at a penny a smile, the cash value
0? .r. u The Wayback Series.
RUPTURE
Do you suffer from this complaint ? No
doubt you wish to be cured without operation.
Have you grown tired ol wearing useless
trusses ? Then send for our little book,
giving a full description of our
AUTOMATIC
Air Cushion Appliance
by means of which a permanent cure can be
effected. We positively affirm this in spite ot
the many previous disappointments you may
have had. This appliance is something en-
tirely new —is in fact the Best Rupture
Appliance of the Century, and to
prove this to you
WE GIVE YOU TWO DAYS TRIAL
with each appliance that we send out. Perfect
comfort and ease trom the first day’s use. No
ste-l bands to torture or galling pads or
leather chafing understraps. The pad is made
of soft pliable rubber, which presses gently
but firmly on the correct spot.
Full Particulars Posted Free
WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
; r 3Vx
There’s Ssuice for yov!
Montserrat
Lime Juice Sauce suits
all tastes, and owing to its
purity, adds a zest to food,
wi shout upsetting the most
delicate digestion It helps
your food to ieed you.
Jfsb your Storekeeper for it.
Guaranteed tree from Preservatives.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Song.
The waves were singing the Black Song hollow
No mind of a man may hope to follow.
The stars shone over the singing ripple.
There stole to the water’s edge a cripple,
Who cried —as one who awaits a token—
With bitter voice from a body broken:
O waves, still singing the Black Song hollow
No mind of a man may hope to follow,
Why from the Sleep of the Dark was driven
Soul, to pine in a shape misriven?
Cursed at, lurking beneath the rafter,
Beggar-fed, and with mocking laughter,
Life drags on, and with pain unending :
O Force, 0 Gods, from the deep ascending
Grant, from this world that the Strong inherit,
To me, in grace, that Release I merit . . .
He paused, as one who awaits a token ;
The stars were clear, and the Song unbroken:
But the waves drew back, and the breakers lifted —
Out from the bed of the furrows rifted
Fair and perfect and fault-defying,
The starlit form of a strong man dying,
Washed to the feet of the waiting cripple. . . .
The stars shone over the singing ripple:
And faintest breath Of their mocking laughter
That taints the soul, and for ever after,
Drowned in the chant of the Black Song hollow
No mind of a man may hope to follow.
N.S.W.
HUGH McKAY.
Ballad of Downhill.
Merry am I when my lady pleases,
Still can I laugh at her blithe command,
Though, when the grip of dull years seizes,
Death and the Devil seem close at hand.
Ugh! the shingles are sharp on the strand,
Cutting the feet of a limping fellow;
Zest of high living at last is banned. . . .
Now for the time of the sere and yellow!
Where the sun kissed us the blizzard freezes,
And the adventures so long we’ve planned
We must abandon; with senile wheezes,
Grimly we trudge through a hostile land.
Never again will our hopes be fanned
To an exuberance bland and mellow.
Fingers clutch wildly at ropes of sand,
Now for the time of the sere and yellow.
Gaspings and gropings and coughs and sneezes . . .
God! at the best we are half unmanned.
Dead as vile Haman our old-time ease is,
Shaky the ground upon which we stand.
Cherished illusions are contraband,
Harpies are screaming and vampires bellow ;
Life burns low like a dyiqg brand;
Now for the time of the sere and yellow!
Death! ere the hosts of our youth disband,
And your sharp teeth snap and crunch us, tell
—oh,
Tell—what dole will the gods demand
Now, for the time of the sere and yellow?
MAORILAND.
FRANK MORTON.
The Long Day.
The stranger sat upon a chair, the loou-supply be-
side,
And nibbled, as he squatted there, a beer both long
and wide;
The incandescents, all about, shone red and shed on
him
A searching light that pointed cut his length of
hair and limb.
Above him, glowing, one fine light burned splen-
didly, and he
With all his energy sat tight and drank beer con-
stantly ;
And now his glass-grip prophesied great trouble by-
and-bye—
A brilliant, hectic flush belied the dulness of his eye.
He sat beneath the flaring light, long anchored there,
a mere
Mollusc that clung upon the night, blank-staring at
his beer
In peace, or blankly gazed around, or dozed, a living
drawl
Crammed with good beer, in which he found no
blessed joy at all.
At closing-time the pot-boy bumped the stranger:
“Come on, there —
It’s time to get!” The stranger humped himself
within his chair.
“ ’Sail ri’,” he said; “ ’tain’t time for me to —hup!
—loo-leave—hie!—town !”
He raised his eyes. “I’ll wait V shee —an’ shee th’
shun go down!”
VICTORIA.
FRANK HENTY.
The Cloud-Eagle.
The young moon’s sickle holds to-night,
Above the tide’s soft flow,
The old moon’s silver web, to light
The darkening space below.
No wind’s awake; no tree-top swings;
How simply dies the day !
A dark cloud-eagle spreads its wings
Across the twilit bay.
Above the high Cathedral tower
It floats, nor passes by,
Too dark and strange a thing to lower
In such a tender sky.
And they who kneel awhile below
To pray, with meek heads bowed —
What reck they of the moon’s bright bow
Or of that baleful cloud !
So pure and pale the sky, it seems
But freshly washed with rain;
It is a night for happy dreams
That fade, and form again.
But still with evil menacings
Upon the quiet air,
They spread, those cloudy eagle-wings,
Above the peace and prayer.
N.S.W.
RUTH M. BEDFORD.


Combination Couch and Bed.
CHANGED INSTANTLY.
Size when open, 4ft. x 6ft. 7in.
■* ‘
V■ > ** *?. * v $ <fr
h *'' v * £ V }
l * *' r-* •’, .*’*-*’ •*' *\
; >; • £ 'JBc 1
CLOSED AS COUCH.
MhiiVrr -r
OPEN AS DOUBLE BED.
Commonwealth
Patent 12274.
Cannot get oat of order; is
exceptionally strong and durable.
Just the thing for offices,
small rooms, or where an extra
bed is required.
Invaluable for hotels, boarding-
houses, coffee palaces, and similar
establishments.
Can be had fitted with box, to
act as linen press. Three pieces
of furniture in one.
Elegantly upholstered.
CASH PRICES:
In Cretonne, £4 10s.; in
Tapestry or American Leather,
£5 55.; in Rexine, £6 6s. With
Box, 20s. extra.
Patent Rights held by
MARCUS CLARK & Co. Ltd.
SYDNEY.
Rheumatism, Indigestion, Kidney Trouble.
PAGE’S INDIAN COMPOUND
May be obtained from all Chemists and Stores, Price
Wholesale Agents: ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney.
Or direct from the Manufacturers, Post Free on receipt of price,
PAGE & COMPANY LIMITED, 117 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
2/6
per
Bottle.
The Goldfields Diamond Drilling Co., Ltd.,
339 Collins Street, MELBOURNE. 79 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Boulder Road, KALCOORLIE, W.A.
Diamond Drilling and Water Boring Contractors.
Sole Manufacturers of The Victoria Percussion Drill. Agents for THE SULLIVAN MACHINERY
CO.’S Diamond Drills, Air Compressors, Rock and Air Hammer Drills.
Drill Carbons and Spares for Diamond Drills stocked. Full particulars and prices on application.
Welsbach ELECTRIC Light
Metal FILAMENT LAMPS
Used in the best establishments.
ONE OF THE USERS.
ss
til
1
3]
8
n
31
in
n
in
n
a
m « i 33ia *?i 7
SlMaiiu
w^srmil
tm
llJiii IK lijj* ;f
am
Commercial Travellers’ Club, Sydney.
From all Electricians throughout Australia, and from
Welsbach Light Co. of Australasia Ltd.,
302 Pitt Street, Sydney.
390 LONSDALE STREET, MELBOURNE.
102 VICTORIA STREET, WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Proved to Assist Digestion beyond any Doubt or Question
SQUARE SCHNAPPS
ABSOLUTELY
PURE.
- ->»-
OBTAINABLE
EVERYWHERE.
The Largest Distillers
in the World.
freebooter
brand iLli
[P
SqUARE
SCHNAPPS
,T ‘S PROOoct
SQUAftt HOUAMD
pßOPßiifow~~~ J
nethehuwm DtsnuewEs
DELFT iJOLLAMD
ABDVLLA
CIGARETTES.
On this alone all nations stand agreed:
Abdullas are the only friends in need.
PALGETY&C9LT?
WHOLESALE AGENTS FOR
AUSTRALIA.
WA
K
m
\w
0
Read This hist.
Every name on it is a guarantee of excellence and merit.
Every car mentioned is manufactured from finest
material by -most skilled workmen.
Daimler
—(The favorite of Royalty).
Delaunay-Belleville
—Built by the makers of the famous
Belleville boilers used by the World’s
great navies.
Austin
—British make and British material.
F. N.
—The car built by the Belgian Small
Arms Factory.
Schacht Motor Buggy
—Specially adapted for rough country,
roads.
Halley Motor Lorry
—The Giant of Commerce/’ with
carrying capacity from 10 cwt. to
8 tons.
sfdsfd
Your inspection is invited, or full particulars of any of these
motors will be sent on application.
Dalg'ety &, Co. Ltd
Motor Garage, Phillip


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
You 32.—N0. 1635.
THURSDAY, JUNE 15, 1911.
Pluck fin.
THE RUSH TO YASSBERRA.
In connection with the controversy over retaining’ Government House in Sydney, King O’Malley (Minister for Home Affairs) suggests that the G.-G. should campon the Federal
capital aite at Yassberra. “There would be beautiful fishing for him,” says the Minister. “ Moreover, he could drink of the waters of the Cotter the purest stream in the world.
There is no water like it. And he could have splendid shooting, too. No better in the world. He would have plenty of room for his horse. Also, he could so familiarise himself
with the territory that when he returned to England he would be able to expound to prospective Governors-General what a beautiful place it is, and what would be the prospects before
them when they got to Australia. I firmly believe that there would be a tremendous rush of applications for the position of King s representative in the Commonwealth. 1 his news
of the attractions of Yass-Canberra and the prospects of spending half the year now and as much of the year as they desire later at the Federal capital would spread through the
Empire. It would be magnificent.”


NOTICE TO AGENTS.
Owing to Coronation Day falling
on Thursday, 22nd inst., “ The
Bulletin ” for that date will be
published on Wednesday, 21st.
The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper,
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod,
of Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mos-
man, for The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
Ltd., at the Office of the Co., 214 George-
street North, Sydney, N. S. Wales, Aus-
tralia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES: Business, 1384 Central.
Editorial, 257 City.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Per Annum . . .. ..£l6O
Half-yearly .. . . .. 0 13 6
Quarterly .. .. .. 0 7 0
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin
posted regularly to you every iveek for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communica-
tions to he addressed to William Macleod, Manag-
ing Director.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the
paper {and, to an extent, themselves ) by taking
some care as to methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, ad-
vertisements, etc.) should in no case be addressed to
the Editor, but to the Manager. To send them to
the Editor is to invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters
to anyone by name. “The Editor, The Bulletin,” is
the proper superscription for “copy.” Delay, and
even loss, is sometimes caused by addressing to per-
sons instead of officials. The person may not be
there; the official always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be. re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” col-
umn all contributions submitted, whether in the
form of Political, Social or other Articles, Verse,
Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially accept-
able), Paragraphs, Letters or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS.
when the address is specified and stamps are en-
closed. But no MS. will be returned, or preserved,
unless these conditions are observed. When MS. is
forwarded without stamps for return it will be un-
derstood that the copy is to be destroyed if not ac-
ceptable. Personal applications for return of MS.
cannot receive attention. The Bulletin desires,
further, those sending MS. to distinctly understand
that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea,
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any pic-
ture which has to be re-drawn — will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
The Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on
account of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale
agents) to Victoria, West Australia, Queensland,
Tasmania and New Zealand; and on account of
Messrs. Atkinson and Co. and Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide
—at JR6 per doz. nett.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British
Australasian Office, 115 High Ilolborn, London,
IV. C.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town; Dawson and Son, Capetown; The Central
News Agency, Durban, Natal; and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver
8.C.; Irvine and Forsyth, Jif/1 Hastings Street;
Norman, Caple and Co., Stationers.
U.S.A.—lsserlis A., Seattle, Washington; Inter-
national News Agency, Los Angeles; Chicago News-
paper Agency, 170 Madison Street, Chicago.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port
Said.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Ilong Kong.
Singapore. — Messrs. John Little and Co.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size
6%in. x 11/in., will be forwarded on application.
Larger sizes can be supplied if desired.
THURSDAY, JUNE 15, 1911.
A BRITISH BLESSING WHICH IS
REPRESENTED AS AN AUS-
TRALIAN CURSE.
Australia is still, for the most part, a land
of imports. The native cannot fling the
smallest brick without hitting something
that he or his forebears shipped or adopted
or imitated from England. That of itself
would he bad ; what is worse is that the vast
majority of the things are out of place in
this environment. In our coastal cities,
where for nine months of the year the cli-
mate ranges from that of the Riviera in
spring to that of Southern Italy in sum-
mer, the houses of the well-to-do are faithful
copies of the cold and wet-resistant man-
sions of Teddington and Hampstead. The
homes of the poor are dreadful everywhere,
but in Australian cities they are like the
homes of the London poor, which are the
most starkly hideous and dreadful of all.
Australia, where it rains seldom, and is
nearly always warn), is pre-eminently the
place for the out-door restaurant, which
flourishes in the Paris Bois and in the
Champs Elys6es, in Brussels and Vienna, and
indeed in all the big cities of Continental
Europe. Yet we feed patiently in hermeti-
cally-sealed eating-houses—places which
would afford a welcome escape from the
chill fog and damp of the Strand or Hol-
born, but which have no sense or meaning
here. A striking testimony to Australia’s
loyalty to English tradition is the fact that
it is impossible, in the length and breadth
of the Commonwealth, to get a rdof-garden
meal. Nine-tenths of our cooking is Eng-
lish, and hash-house English at that. Long-
staff, the artist, marvelled in the press
the other day that even in the height of
summer he saw no white worn by men in
Australia —only the drab garments that he
was used to in London. The top or plug
hat is moribund in the land that gave it
to the world, yet it appears at all our social
functions, and there are citizens who habitu-
ally wear it in the city, after the fashion of
Dickens characters. We have seven imi-
tation English kings, and seven make-be-
lieve Courts, where on levee days the most
diverting travesties of British Court-cere-
monial may he observed. The country is
full of small, scuffling, British-made reli-
gions ; and their howls of protest and abuse
and anger, and their ceaseless haggling con-
cerning long-dead historical events, amount
to a chronic nuisance. Our daily papers
are careful imitations of the thundering,
platitudinous organs of the Early Victorian
period. The average big Australian hotel
might be dumped down beside any London,
Liverpool or Glasgow railway station with-
out anyone knowing the difference. Foxes,
rabbits, hares, briars and rats have been
cheerfully adopted from England. And we are
always ready to import and welcome any
new foolishness, from a hobble skirt to a re-
mittance man or a bellowdrama. One thing
only of British origin we will not touch. In
fact, in certain quarters it is referred to in
terms of horror and disgust. And, curiously
enough, that one thing is, by general con-
sent, among the fairest products of British
genius.
It would take many issues of this paper
to hold all the extravagantly laudatory
things that have been said by the highest
authorities about the British Constitution.
Burke laid it down that the man who did
not bow before it in admiration was to be
classed with the hopeless dullard who could
not appreciate Livy or Virgil or Raphael
or Michael Angelo. Montesquieu, the
French prototype of Burke, thought and
wrote as Burke did in this connection.
Bagehot considered the British Constitu-
tion was as nearly flawless as any human
product could be. For two hundred years
the lesser authorities on State-craft have
been writing and speaking on similar lines.
One by one the various British colonies
adopted Constitutions that were framed
precisely on the British plan. France, Tur-
key and Japan have copied it as nearly as
local conditions would allow. An India,
governed and administered on the lines of
the United Kingdom, is the wild dream of
the Babu whom the Briton has educated to
be a scourge to his back. South Africa
and Maoriland have adopted it. America
affords an example of a country which has
gone on different lines —where the highest
authority, so to speak, is weak, and the
lower ones extremely strong. The result is
not calculated to cause Democrats any en-
thusiasm. In that republic, where the jar-
gon about “equality” and “freedom” and
“brotherhood” is most persistent, there are
more outrageously rich citizens than in any
other. One of them has, in his own com-
paratively short lifetime, been able to gain
control of close on two billions sterling—
more than any monarch has commanded
since the days of the Roman Empire. As
always happens in such circumstances, the
masses and the middling classes are in a
bac! way. When an American citizen has
paid Beef Trust prices for his meat, Lum-
ber Trust prices for his building materials,
and Gas Trust prices for his fuel and lighting,
and has been fleeced by the countless ramifi-
cations of the Oil, Sugar, Tobacco and Coal
Trusts, and has paid four times as much as
he should for his clothes, and has found the
cash to satiate, directly or indirectly, the
biggest Trust of them all —the Railway
Trust —he is liable to be on the financial
rocks, or thereabouts. It is not contended
here that increased prices for the necessaries
of life always constitute a national calamity.
For example, Germany has deliberately put
a heavy duty on grain and meat, though the
country is ill-adapted for raising either.
This is part of the Empire’s military policy.
Germany holds that it pays to make the sac-
rifice, in order to be self-supporting in time
of war. But there is no national benefit,
nor the faintest vestige of an excuse, for
raised prices which come from Trust manipu-
lations. The cost of living has been rising
steadily in the United States for the past
30 years, just as it has been rising here
during tile last 10 years, chiefly because,
under the form of government which is com-
mon to both countries, the central authority
has no power to scotch Trusts.
* * * *
It is strange that, though every Austra-
lian is demonstrably poorer owing to our
system of government, the deadliest reproach
in the armory of a certain section should be
“unificationist,” meaning one who advo-
cates the adoption by Australia of a Consti-
tution modelled on British lines. The lack
of democratic daily papers, and the free and
frequent lying practised by Liberal news-
papers and politicians, have combined to
leave on the popular intelligence a vague
impression that a unificationist is a disrepu-
table, reckless ruffian, who wants to filch
things, is an opponent of Freedom and the
rest of the virtues which have made the Em-
pire what it is, and is in other respects a
Menace. There are few, if any, legitimate
arguments against the British form of Con-
stitution —which is to say, Unification. The
nearest approach to a convincing objection
to the adoption of it here is that Australia
is a big place, while the home of unification
is small, and that, while it is a simple mat-
ter to govern from one centre a country
of 45 million acres, it is an impossible feat
in the case of a country which is upwards of
three million square miles. Distance, how-
ever, is largely a matter of period. Adel-
aide is nearer to Melbourne at the present
time than Ballarat was in the days of our
grandfathers. People are still living who
remember when it took three months to send
station supplies from Sydney to the Monaro.
In the pre-Reform Bill period in England it
was liable to take a politician or a document
of State as long- to travel from London to
York as it takes the meanest commercial trav-
eller to-day to travel from Brisbane to Perth.
Yet it was in the pre-Reform Bill period
that the warmest praises were heaped on the
Constitution. It is an unquestionable fact
that Australia is as small to-day, for all
purposes of government, as England was
this time last century. The main outcry
against a unificatory form of government
in Australia is, therefore, bogus. And why
is it raised? To get an answer, the
inquiring elector requires only to consider
the quarter whence it proceeds. It is raised
by the accredited spokesmen of Vested In-
terests. The people who are now fighting
to keep the Australian Parliament impotent
and the Legislative Council-controlled State
Houses supreme, are the reactionaries who
have fought every forward measure, from
Federal Old Age Pensions to the land tax.
Part of their political creed has always been
that nothing but good comes out of England.
Their present conduct in taking a prohibi-
tively anti-English stand in regard to what is
admittedly one of the Old Country’s best in-
stitutions, would be insanely illogical if the
true inwardness of it weren’t apparent.
THE PUBLIC BUSHRANGER.
“Curse o’ Moses” speaks a piece:—
Progress is a snare and a delusion. We run from
change to change alter the appearance of things,
quicken our stride or slacken our pace as fashion or
opportunity dictate; but in the end we arrive at
much the same conclusion as those who went before
us. An aeroplane is more rapid in flight than a bul-
lock dray, but it is open to question whether it is
a more wonderful invention, and it is open to no
question at all that the older contrivance got to the
end of its journey just as effectively. Most of our
alleged advances are mere alterations of nomencla-
ture ; and through modern civilisation runs the
thread of all the past, unaltered and unalterable in
spirit. Our picture-shows, with their stern Puri-
tanical fancy for pushing the collection-plate where
the flow of silver is strongest, have closed down upon
Australian pictures of bushranging. It is the re-
puted desire of the public to forget that any persons
ever bushranged in this continent, and the showmen
are ready to pander to that feeling; but the most
superficial examination of the spaces between our
gum-trees will indicate to any right-thinking per-
son that the bushranger is still abroad, and, in fact,
that bushranging is one of the primary industries of
this country.
* * * ’ *
The prototype of all bushrangers is a person called
Robin Hood, who in the twelfth century used his best
endeavors to make England merry through shoot-
ing with bows and arrows at the' king’s game, and
compelling fat abbots to provide ale and pie-
crust for the gang of cheerful ruffians who defied the
law in Sherwood Forest. Robin Hood died some
years ago; but in one form or another the pastime he
inaugurated has been revived from age to age, and in
the natural sequence of things Australia has fallen
heir to all the glorious heritage of “Stand and de-
liver!” as it was practised when CffiUß de Lion dis-
cussed stoush with Saladin, and John employed the
dentist. laureate in the profitable task of pulling out
Hebrew teeth. In our earlier days, when lumps of
virgin gold were prominent features of the landscape
of Victoria and New South Wales, and when men
speculated on the existence of the police as those who
have a thirst and no money speculate to-day on the
efficacy of prayer, Robin Hood appeared in almost
his original form as a bushranger; and the memory
of his varied exploits still fires the imagination of
politicians, sugar-boilers and trade unions. Behind
all our commerce, industry, theology, invention and
sport is a grand and joyous enthusiasm which finds
its secret inspiration in the. thought of the Old for-
mula of the Black Forest—“ Bail up!” Times,
no doubt, have changed. The softening in-
fluences of modern life are everywhere ap-
parent. There are phonographs in our homes
and German bands in our streets. Church
bells assert with violence that ours is a Christian
country ; and there are electric lights in the park at
night to save wayfaring souls from the miasma of
vice and fools from the shears of Delilah. Every-
thing is toned down, from the language of William
to the blouse of Kate ; but over all the emasculating
the chastening influences of the twentieth century
is the eternal wink of Friar Tuck, and the spirit of
the merry greenwood is as purse-loving as ever.
Bushrangers , were wont to stick up stations in our
golden days and make bearded squatters dance in
their own halls for the entertainment of unwelcome
guests. Wild words were spoken and rude jests ban-
died, while revolvers gleamed in compelling power
where previously the air had only thrilled to mention
of the sacred price of wool-in-the-grease or the hushed
and awful utterance that told of the fall in hides.
It was very dreadful; for the outlaws frequently de-
camped witn a couple of good station horses and as
much as £5O in cash and valuables. But all such
things belong to the history of the past, and Morgan
and the Kelly gang have long been out of business.
Have they ? A cold sweat gathers on the forehead
of the pastoral person as he surveys his river front-
age. Only last year Robin Hood put off his doublet
of Lincoln green and tied himself with a girdle of
conquering red-tape, lie sent out his demands in
official envelopes, and held a piece of deadly paper
level with the spectacles of squatterdom the while it
handed out a round million in the form of Federal
land-tax. Robin laughed his old gay laugh as he
pocketed the plunder. He had come upon his fat
abbot again. The world had been laughing for seven
centuries at the abbot’s antics. It is laughing still.
♦ * * -
People who read history standing on their
heads to yet the true perspective, say that Drake
and his men of Devon were belated viking raiders.
Nothing of the sort! The vikings themselves may
perhaps in certain aspects have resembled the out-
laws of Sherwood; but Drake and Hawkins and the
rest were merely following up the trail of the fat
man in the old recognised fashion. If they found
him with a cargo of silver-plate, so much the better.
They would have been equally prepared to do their
duty if the freight of the Spanish galleon had been
ingots of gold. But Drake is sleeping in Nombre
Dios Bay, with a cannon shot at his head and an-
other at his feet, and he never even sighted the shores
of Australia ! Do not be too certain about the per-
manence of that sleep ! But yesterday rich argosies
of cotton rags were freely imported into New South
Wales; and the waistcoats of ponderous merchants
were inflated with the gas of gladness as their bank
accounts grew heavy with golden gain. Who said
“Stand and deliver” ? Protection with horrid front
met the rag fleet at the water gate! The fat abbot
danced a fantastic measure by proxy on a thousand
platforms ; but the new Robin Hood, or Drake, or
bushranger, or what you will, laughed the old laugh
of Sherwood and the Spanish Main, and the big purse
was cut, that its contents might be scattered broad-
cast over Australia.
Anyone with an eye for the picturesque,
and a soul to appreciate poetic justice, must
see that it is all in the game and part of the
eternal fitness of things. What is a fat abbot for but
to plunder, and why are his legs less supple than
those of other men if not to move us to laughter
when he dances! The picture-shows may shut down
on bushranging exploits, and modern civilisation,
with its penchant for declining to look at things as
they are, may drape the nude until Venus Victrix
looks like an understudy for Mrs. Grundy’s maiden
aunt; but the spirit of outlawry is more enduring
than State bricks, and, like chaos, whisky and pre-
varication, one in its essence with the everlasting.
It is a wild, elusive thing which cannot be cajoled,
reasoned with, or diverted from its purpose, “Law
and order” are useless against it. It will strip them
naked, tie them to a tree, and go forth to meet its
victim dressed in their clothes. From age to age it
increases in popularity; and though sometimes a
Referendum or an Anti-Sosh bogey may cause it to
walk warily, it gets there every time in spite of
prayer, fasting and policemen. Never was the dread-
ful thing more rampant than it is in Australia at
the present moment. Its double-barrelled blunderbus
of the New Protection is going to make the fat abbott
shell out with both hands. A little shower of “No,
No” has temporarily damped the priming of "the
weapon, but that also is in the game, and the lock is
as good as ever. The spirit moves and grows. A lot
of other obese things will shortly be doing unwilling
capers at its bidding—State Governors, ‘ Legislative
Councils, Trusts, Monopolies, and all manner of per-
sons and institutions that have weighed heavily on
the saddle of the public mule. It is a merrv spirit
that animates the bushranger of to-day! ' Abbots
were never so fat and never so numerous, nor were
the sides of the multitude so ready to be shaken with
rude laughter.
Underlying all bushranging is a deep and divine
philosophy. Every big purse represents the plunder
of someone. Every fat person riding on a donkey
causes 20 lean persons to go afoot. To filch away the
purse and scatter its contents among the people is the
worthiest action under Heaven. There is enough to
go round if we can make the scattering sufficiently
broadcast. We want to get these things in their
right bearings and true perspective. In this gay
world of thieves and cut-throats public sympathy
must still go with the jolly thief who does not rob for
himself alone —the brigand who is content with cakes
and ale, a jerkin out of the spoils to take home to
little Tom, and a petticoat from the wardrobe of the
Baron’s daughter for Mary to wear at the fair. The
watchword of the true bushranger is never “Down
with everything!” It is “Up with everything!”
Up with the toiling clown to the dignity of man-
hood! Up with the moneyed idler to the dignity of
toil! Robbery! Spoliation! Destruction of capi-
tal ! Ruin of Private Enterprise! Who cares, so
that no Australian go hungry? The morality of the
question may be settled when the ass is saddled
again. But there is nothing so immoral as want,
and nothing more moral than the greatest good of
the greatest number.
A FLAW IN AUSTRALIAN
PATRIOTISM.
Thebe was a Northern yarn which told of
the Black Brother who was given some bad
rum to drink. He swigged it, smacked his
lips, and said —“My word, that pfeller all
right. I know him—colonial wine!” Any-
thin? that was crude was “colonial.” Every-
thing that was “colonial” was expected to
be crude. The “Made in Australia” shows
have helped to kill that idea dead. The en-
thusiastic Australian now knows that Aus-
tralia can do and make most things as well
as anybody; the comparatively few other
Australians who still cherish a little of the
old superstition actually often pay Austra-
lian goods a higher compliment still by giv-
ing an extra price for them under the delu-
sion that they are foreign, and that such
good things couldn’t be made here. For-
tunately, however, there isn’t, except here
and there, much of the old superstition left;
and the person who spurns Australian goods
is no longer regarded as a superior being.
In fact, if the Australian can offer as good
goods at the same money, and he prefers
to send his order out of the country, he is
almost universally regarded as a poor citi-
zen, and no friend of the land which sup-
ports him.
Strangely enough, there never has been
anv doubt about Australia’s capacity to
run a bank or a life-insurance office; and
even when it was fashionable to buy for-
eign clothes or food or machines, the most
un-Australian person didn’t think he was
losing caste by turning into the Bank of
New South Wales or the A.M.P. office.
When foreign life-insurance offices opened in
Australia they made little progress, and
what little they did make cost them a tre-
mendous lot of money. As for banks, the
only foreign concern that even tries to get
business is the great French Comptoir.
There isn’t so much as one English
bank in Australia; the nearest approach to
it is made by four which have their head-
offices in London, but do no business any-
where except in Australia, and at the Lon-
don office. Yet, while Australians have
supported Australian banks and life-insur-
ance offices as a matter of course, they have
until quite lately supported foreign fire-in-
surance offices also almost as a matter of
course. Thousands of men who are good
Australians in so far that they would not
thina of buying foreign goods if they could
get as good “made in Australia” goods at
the same price, have sent their fire business
to foreign cos. The Australian offices of-
fer as good terms ; they are as solvent; al-
most without exception their financial posi-
tion, in proportion to their risks, is in-
finitely superior to that of even the biggest
foreign cos.; their shareholders are Austra-
lians, and their profits are spent in Austra-
lia. But because the foreign offices got
an early foothold, and seized the best busi-
ness, the Australian cos. have not been able
to do the vigorous campaigning and preach-
ing necessary to direct wide attention to the
curious anomaly.
* * * *
Latterly things have been changing. The
man 'who sees that in order to make Aus-
tralia great, and incidentally improve his
own position, he must give Australian in-
stitutions all the help he can, is waking up
in ever-increasing numbers to the fact that
Australian fire-insurance offices are Aus-
tralian institutions just as much as Aus-
tralian life-insurance offices and Australian
woollen factories. So the future of the
Australian fire office is becoming brighter—
so much brighter, indeed, that papers which
until lately didn’t have a word to say in
their f?vor begin to see quite unsuspected
virtues in <,hem.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Cheapness First, Patriotism Anywhere.
Sydney Telegkaph talked sternly to Prime
Minister Fishek in connection with his mo-
tion at the Imperial Conference for pre-
venting “the unfair competition” of subsi-
dised shipping companies in the oversea
Australian trade. Said the Telegraph :
The question arises as to how far the Common-
wealth is being injured by the fact that the Govern-
ments of some foreign countries pay part of the
freight charges on the exchange of commodities be-
tween their people and the people of Australia. Ger-
many and France are the two nations most concerned,
and "both of them are large customers for Australia’s
staple products. The lower the freight either way the
better for us. If the whole of the freight on the
trade with their respective countries, instead of part
of it, was paid by the German and French Govern-
ments, the people of Australia would, in the shape of
cheaper goods, get the benefit of it.
This, the stock patter of the foreign trader,
comes divertingly from the paper which was
loudest the other day in the howl about the
peril in the North Sea, and the need for the
immediate presentation of a Dreadnought
(“or 20 if necessary”: Joseph Cook) to
England, as a means of coping with the


German menace. The German * s
still on deck. And every ounce of Austra-
lian trade that goes to keep the German
flag flying in these waters operates to tr ■,
sify it. There is not a single maritime co.
that is subsidised by the fatherland l>
pockets its money on the understanding- that
in time of war its vessels shall pass auto-
matically under the control of the e ™ an
Admiralty. With that end in view, all these
craft are constructed so that they may be
transformed, at short notice, into war ships.
The Telegraph, in common with the rest
of the Anti-Defence party, has all along in-
sisted that if, in an Anglo-German conflict,
Britain goes down, Australia must neces-
sarily go down too. Assuming the correct-
ness of that Babu-like view, every Austra-
lian who saves a sovereign by patronising
the subsidised German vessels is paying
out 20s. towards the foundation ot Austra-
lia’s national ruin. The Telegraph, no
doubt, appreciates that point. But there
is the immemorial doctrine of Shoddy to be
considered. These huge vessels, which are
virtually war ships, are able to carry Aus-
tralian goods cheaper than the British ships,
and the Telegraph, being a Freetrader,
can’t see why on earth they should be dis-
couraged. The advocate of dirt-cheapness
at any price was ever thus. He is capable
of masquerading as a combination ot
Hampden, Kosciusko and Bilanderson on
Empire Day; but when the martial strains
have died away, and Bruce Smith has
clambered down from the stump, he is pre-
pared to see what he conceives to be im-
perial or Australian interests, or both, in
Sheol, before lie sacrifices as much as tup-
pence on their behalf.
Religious Freedom and the Post Office.
Postmaster-General Thomas, seeking to
justify the refusal of his Department to
Handle an Italian newspaper on the ground
of its alleged blasphemy, confesses his art-
less faith in the infallibility of the clergy.
If, says he, the Archbishop of Melbourne, or
the Scotchbyterian Moderator, or the Salv’-
army Commissioner, or various other speci-
fied clerics will inspect the paper, and if
any one of them will say that it is not blas-
phemous and ought not to be prohibited, he
(the P.M.G.) will rem<r/e the prohibition.
So Mr. Thomas is prepared to have the
policy of this great Commonwealth Depart-
ment governed by one Reverend or a Salv’-
army boss. Meantime, the P.M.G., having
certain religious opinions himself, maintains
the prohibition. As Josiah Thomas, he is
perfectly entitled to his religious opinions;
but he has no right whatever to impose
them on other people in his capacity of
Postmaster-General'. If Thomas has that
right, then, supposing some Joe Syme became
P.M.G., he would have the same right to
prohibit Thomas’s hymn-book passing
through the post. And many another man
who isn’t Joe Syme would, in excess of
“Conformist” zeal, banish Thomas’s Meth-
odist hymns, not to mention the dreadful
productions of the Salvation Army, on the
judgment of whose local boss the P.M.G. is
prepared to abide. L’Asino, the publica-
tion now in disnute, appears to be neither
more nor less than a coarse, cheap, persistent
satire on the religious dogmas to which the
Postmaster-General and Australians in gen-
eral were born and bred, so to speak. It is
supported only by such as have abandoned
the dogmas, and it would be rather shocking,
perhaps to some unbelievers. But it injures
nobody that it shocks. Its satire is intended
to be educational, in direct opposition to the
Church that Mr. Thomas, and Archbishop
Clarke, and the Moderator, etc., regard as
the oracle of Right and Wrong. If it be
blasphemous, as the Post Office censor rules,
for a paper to ridicule the idea of a benefi-
cent Providence scourging a nation with
cholera, then the very parsons of Mr.
Thomas’s own church are addicted to blas-
phemy every time they talk about the warn-
ing lesson of an earthquake or other public
calamity. John Wesley of old gave God
credit for having planted volcanoes in Ro-
man Catholic countries to punish the people
for their religion. Was Wesley blasphem-
ous? If he was, then what is the P.M.G.
going to do about his works? And if he
wasn’t, what is the P.M.G. going to do about
L’Asino ?
- -+.
Shooting the Captive Bird.
During the N.S.W. censure debate, Dunn,
M.L.A., attacked an ancient iniquity with
bare knuckes, and drew from Dan Levy.
M.L.A. for Darlinghurst Gaol, the shocked
remark that “surely the hon. member did
not infer that the gaol officials placed any
obstacles in the way of defensive prepara-
tions !” If Levy ever gets committed, and
can’t raise bail—which won’t rest so much
with him as with his friends —he will gain
knowledge. In the first place, no witness
in the case will be allowed to come near
him; if his decrepit grandmother visits him
a vast warder will stand by with ears
cocked; his photo, and “prints” will
be taken and sent all over Jerusalem; he
will not be allowed to write anything with-
out permission; the censor will rigorously
scrutinise his MS. (headed “Prisoner” So-
and-So), and also the reply thereto; he
will exist on the coarsest diet (unless rich
enough to keep himself ) ; no newspaper or
any other suspicious thing will be allowed
him; he will remain in his cheerful cell 20
hours out of the 24 ; and he will strain the
muscles of his arm “saluting” various prison
satraps. Levy’s definition of “obstacles”
will then probably change. Only a couple of
weeks ago an accused person’s solicitor ap-
plied to the Supreme Court successfully for
bail where it had been refused, and the affi-
davit, ichich the Court evidently believed,
set forth that, if he wasn’t bailed, he could
not possibly marshal the necessary wit-
nesses. This man, having got bail and" the
witnesses he wanted, was triumphantly ac-
quitted. Yet how many men sent to the
dungeons can afford a solicitor, let alone the
£lO necessary to grease the cogs of the Court
machinery? The remedy is simple enough.
Monetary bail should be prima facie a right,
and the bail-money should in most cases be
almost invisible. Rex should hold his
courts_ oftener; a Public Defender should
peregrinate the land ; and the confinee await-
ing trial should be no more a “prisoner”
than the richer person who gets bail. Then
Macaulay’s words would be less apt— “I
consider that the Public Prosecutor who is
arrayed against an undefended prisoner, is
about as good a sportsman as the creature
armed with a gun, who sneaks on a pheasant
and shoots it where it sits asleep on a
branch with its head under its wing.”
The Old Lady Who Wants Fireworks.
The S. M. Herald made the worst of a bad
case the other day in a leader commenting on
the decision of the Sydney Stock Exchange
to give £45 to the hospitals, instead of de-
corating its building on Coronation Day.
“The decision,” mournfully remarked the
old lady, “is the second of the kind notified
within the past few days. We trust it will
be the last.” Seeking for arguments to sup-
port its demand for bung-bungs, it suggested
that the proprietor of a building which
could be decorated for £5 might, if he de-
cided to substitute charity for display, be
“tempted to regulate his expenditure on the
economical lines befitting charity,” and send
along a guinea to some hospital—a miser-
able suggestion that the average citizen who
might spend a sovereign in fireworks would
naturally pass a half-crown into the hospital
box if he decided to help what he evidently
considered a better cause. The Herald’s
view is the Lady Bountiful, workhouse
view, that charity is to be satisfied with a
crust on the doorstep, while ostentation and
snobbery are to be regaled in the drawing-
room. Fortunately this is not the Austra-
lian view; and when she quotes with appro-
val the squandering of £lOO,OOO on Corona-
tion foolishness by the corporation of a city
reeking with the squalor of London, tne
Old Lady Who Wants Fireworks put for-
ward about the worst possible argument in
the eyes of the decent citizens of the Com-
monwealth. It is becoming notorious that
the Sydney hospital system has broken down
in the effort to cope with its ever-growing
task —mainly because the chief means of
raising funds from the public are ludicrous
and pitifully inadequate. Doubtless the
whole business will presently be re-organ-
ised. Meanwhile people are periodically
striking, in the Herald and other papers,
cheerful items headed “No Beds: Shortage
of Hospital Accommodation,” and so forth —
among them one describing, how the other
week a sick woman was driven round dur-
ing the early hours of the morning from
one hospital to another, seeking admission
in vain. It was this sort of thing that
prompted the Stock Exchange’s sensible de-
cision, and the spectacle of the Herald
condemning it, and demanding the old fool-
ishness, which does no one any genuine good,
and has never opened a hospital door to a
suffering woman, is an illuminating com-
mentarv on the paper’s fitness to lead public
opinion.
_
The “Single Tax Fallacy” and Melbourne
“Age.”
In anticipation of a reformed system of
municipal rating for Victoria, the voice of
the Age is heard protesting against an adop-
tion of “the exploded Single Tax fallacy.”
The alarmed journal protests that, if such
a change be made- —-
In the vast majority of cases —probably 90 per
cent. —the same people will pay as now. In the re-
mainder the landowners may have to pay the whole
economic value of their land, and even more, so that
the land becomes worse than valueless —becomes
something that they would gladly give away. . . .
As regards the glaring instances of inequali-
ties in rental values, the Age remarks
A building which costs £lO,OOO is, if erected in
Collins-street, worth very much more than if erected
in a distant suburb, and that quite apart from the
land values of its site. With the increase of popula-
tion and the greater demand for commodious city
accommodation, the returns for the building increase,
so that the same argument for the communal appro-
priation of unearned increment applies to buildings
as to land.
Now, the value of city land is determined
exclusively by its position. Thus stock-
brokers must have offices which are near the
Exchange, no matter how expensive or how
primitive and insanitary and inconvenient
they may be. They would have to do busi-
ness in that locality if none but the most
miserable accommodation were available.
The Age’s argument amounts in effect to a
defence of a system which puts a premium
on mean dwellings. The good citizen who
erects a £lO,OOO edifice in Collins-street, and,
by letting it out in fiats and offices, gets a
big rental, is called on, as things are, to pay
perhaps five times more, in municipal rates,
than his undesirable neighbor who disfigures
the adjoining block with a ramshackle struc-
ture which no one inhabits unless he must.
In consequence, the proprietor of the eye-
sore is liable to find himself better situated
financially, when all is said and done, than
the owner of the £lO,OOO building. Which
is absurd and inequitable, and likewise dead
against the public interest. It is the same
in the suburbs. The man who decorates
a district with a fine, large mansion is taxed
on its relative value many times more than
the waster wlio suffers his adjoining lot to
become the abiding place of humpy-dwellers
and goats. Obviously it is better that the
value of land should not be calculated by
what is put on it (a building may be in-
ordinately big for its environment) or into
it (the best of agricultural land may be
left uncultivated), but by what could be
put on or into it with a reasonable prospect
of profit on the investment at the time of
the municipal valuation. In other words, it
is the ground landlord who should be muni-
cipally taxed, an estimate of his liability be-
ing arrived at in every case by figuring out
the average value of the premises, crops or
what not which his land is capable of sup-
porting as a fair building or agricultural in-
vestment. The proposition may be revolt-
ing to the Tory who closes his eyes to the
fact that the land is the basis of all unearned
increment in real estate; but it is none the
less sound.
A Too-Expensive Luxury.
amazing Tory uproar followed the
N S W. Government’s proposal to put the
building hitherto used as a Federal Govern-
ment House, and the fine park which sur-
rounds it, to public use. Various quaint
correspondents propounded the weird view
that the scheme amounted to “disloyalty to
the Motherland”—a debilitated old-age pen-
sioner among political arguments, which has
been trotted out in opposition to all sorts
of sound proposals, from the restriction of
alien immigration to the establishment of an
Australian Navy. The dailies rely on the
point that if the Governor-General isn’t
lured to Sydney by the bait of an immense
house and grounds, he will refuse to come
at all, and the State will in consequence
“lose prestige.” It is the argument that
was used in France by the Royalists when
the Bourbons' were ejected: America heard
it during the War of Independence; it is
still going strong in Portugal; and the ex-
perience of history proves that so far as
the general welfare is concerned, it amounts
to precisely nothing. The State that needs
a Court, imitation or otherwise, to enable
it to hold its head up in the world were
better dead anyhow. These are utilitarian
times, when an institution —whether it is a
Royal Family, or a vice-regal establishment,
or a dust-bin —must justify itself, or look
to be pushed through the window. Lord
Dudley appreciated Sydney more than any
of his predecessors, yet he put in a bare
average of three months per annum there
during his term. To secure that sort of
boon the State has, for years, been sacrific-
ing its most valuable harbor site. Elimin-
ating all the blither about loyalty to the
Empire, State prestige, and so forth, as com-
pletely beside the point, the simple busi-
ness question obtrudes itself: Is a continu-
ance of this game worth the financial
candle? The class which goes to Govern-
ment House entertainments is small. A
few big shops score when the Governor-
General gives a ball. For these exiguous
blessings the people are warned off what
ought to be the most popular part of the
public gardens and domain —a domain
which, moreover, is being steadily eaten
into to provide the hospital accommodation,
etc., that cannot well be provided anywhere
else. This paper has no objection at all to
the Government providing suitable accom-
modation for the Governor-General in Syd-
ney ; but, seeing that he is only 'here for a
month or two during the year, no Govern-
ment is justified in locking the public out of
the magnificent park which occupies the
most beautiful and most easily accessible
section of the harbor foreshores.
Melbourne’s Suburban Traffic.
The report on the proposed duplication of
Melbourne’s suburban lines, which the Vic-
torian Railways Standing Committee has
just handed in, practically snuffs out that
gorgeous notion. The lately-departed Tait,
being hopelessly wedded to steam, and inca-
pable of seeing any virtue in electricity, pro-
posed to “relieve” the already-congested subur-
ban traffic by doubling the lines from the outer
suburbs to the city, and running trains from
further out as expresses. The departmental
estimate of the cost was £650,000, which
sum, judging by the central station experi-
ence, would probably have expanded to a
million by the time the job was finished.
Before voting the amount, Parliament in-
sisted on an inquiry by the Railways Com-
mittee, and obtained a promise that no-
thing would be done till that report was re-
ceived, and unless it was favorable. Now,
after taking all the expert evidence obtain-
able, and considering the matter from all
sides, the committee finds that electric trac-
tion on the suburban lines would give a
cleaner, faster, more frequent and, above all,
safer service than is possible with steam;
and the sum needed for partial duplication
would go a long way towards meeting the
cost of electrification. As two leading mem-
bers, if not more, of John Weary’s Cabinet
are notoriously in accord with the Commit-
tee’s conclusions, there is a slight hope that
not only will Tait’s extravagant and use-
less proposal be abandoned, but that an
early start will be made at electrifying some
of the inner lines with a view to extending the
policy as speedily as may be. Then the ex-
perience of a safe, clean and qiiick means of
transport should move the citizens to rush
their municipal councils on to the business
of building and extending cross-country and
inter-railway electric tram lines, so that the
once-hustling city may lose that expression
of gradualness that now surprises the pass-
ing stranger.
— : ■
In Federal Territory.
“Six-and-Eight’s” winter-view of the
place where the jackals have persuaded the
asses to pitch the Federal capital:—
The wind is blowing through the palings of my
front garden drearily, and the sunflowers are bobbing
and bowing before the current. It has been blowing
for three days from the same quarter, and will pro-
bably blow for three or four days longer, when we
will have calm, and then more wind. Across the
vacant allotments, where a few goats graze diffidently
amongst old tins, broken bottles and hoop-iron, dark
cloud-shadows flit in continuous procession, and!
through the little breaks the sun shines grey and!
sickly.
The wind has blown all the dust from the street,,
but it still finds a handful of chilly grit to fling into,
the eyes of the stray pedestrian. The street is de-
serted, except for an occasional vehicle that drifts:
down in the eye of the wind. In cold weather our
bush horses develop a shaggy thatch of hair, a mer-
ciful idea of Providence to conceal their skeleton
ribs, except when an occasional gust ploughs a furrow
of white along the sides. Generally annexed to the
horse is a rattle-trap sulky, and in the sulky the
dried-up form of some Outback cocky. As if to fur-
nish sport to the wind, the climate promotes the
growth of hair to an amazing degree, and the breeze
moans dolefully through the whiskers of the drivers
as they jog down the street. Occasionally a woman
blows into the thoroughfare; she is usually old and
wizened and wears rusty black. She cheerfully
trundles down the street, carefully avoiding people
tacking in the opposite direction. Sometimes she
passes the time of day with an old crony. “Windy
the day,” she wheezes. “Very windy,” says the
other.
The park overlooks the township. Here, at least,
there is nothing wherewith the wind may make
dismal noises.
The western mountains are afire with the sunset,
and for a moment one feels warm; but the sunset
fades, and a bleak after-glare clothes the landscape.
In the distance a tiny trickle of track gleams be-
tween high yellow banks of clay; around lie the
straggling houses of the town. They are all old and
many are roofless; nowhere can I see any signs of
a new building. From windward comes the pungent
smell of the tannery. Across the road Ban oh Singh
is talking local politics with lling Lee. In front of
Bangh’s shop a half-score of half-caste children play
a foreign game and chatter in a foreign lingo. When
politicians lecture in the Institute they talk of many
things, but never of a White Australia.
It is getting dark. As I pass the “General Em-
porium” I glance at the goods in the Bft. “front” —
blucher boots, shovels, lingerie and novelettes. “The
Earl’s Choice” lies besides “Will She Tell ?” From
beneath a washboard peers “Lucy’s Lovers,” and in
a distant corner I see “Lost.” I debate whether I
will invest in “Lost” or spend the threepence at
Doolan’s Hotel. Doolan transfixes me in the midst
of my meditations, and I enter the bar where the
dismal light of Door, ax’s sign is reflected on the
bottles. Doolan speaks of the Federal capital, and
what a grand thing for the place it will be. I listen
to the wind sobbing through the cellar, and offend
Doolan by remarking that the place would destroy
anv capital.
When I come out it is dark, and (thanks
probably to Doolan’s rum) I can now see- the
spectres of desolation that I have heard all day.
The Royal Hat.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
How a- hat is a hat, and a head- is a head.
And there's “reason in most things ,” as
someone has said,
And a joke is a joke; but, I give you my
word,
This roofing of kings is becoming absurd.
In days neolithic, when clothing was rare,
And ' a troglodyte’s wardrobe comprised
mainly hair,
When a nose-bone and anklet were reckoned
“the thing,”
The cave-men elected a kind of a king.
Then trouble arose; for the bloke in the
street
Didn’t bow to the king when they happened
to meet;
For when a king's hairiness sums up his
clobber,
A loyalist hardly knows when he should
slobber.
This king set to work, with a serious frown,
And in less than six months he’d invented
the crown —
A mere wreath of rushes, not much of a
thing,
But it published the fact that the wearer
was king.
Now, I put it to you, as a man to a man,
There was reason and sense in that troglo-
dyte’s plan;
For, as he remarked, “ ’Tisn't much of a
fit,
But ’twill help to proclaim to the crowd I
am It.”
But he didn’t call round him his dukes and
his lords,
His cousins and aunts, and relations in
hordes,
His troglodyte bishops to blither and rave;
No, he just shoved it on in his own private
cave.
But the king who came next was a vain sort
of man
(And this is just where all the trouble be-
gan).
He was fond of a “function” and eager for
show;
And he sowed all the seeds of the nonsense
we know.
It started like that; and the foolishness grew
From inviting a friendly and intimate few,
Till the time when the whole blinded nation
was bid on
The day when a king had to get his new lid
on.
With a babble the rabble goes forth to the
Fog,
Forgetting the rent, and forsaking the dog;
They are rushing to London and all because
—Why?
To see a crown cocked o’er the boss-prince’s
eye!
From its innermost heart to its outermost
spot
The whole bloomin’ Empire has gone off its
dot.
For to count “any class” you must be in the
swim,
And shout with the crowd at the hatting,
“That’s ’im!
“That’s ’is ’ighness the King with the large
golden hat —
It’s worth twice the money to see ’im like
that!”
And every old person “of note” will be
there,
Who can dodge the collector and rake up
the fare.
Barons and bishops and boodlers in hordes,
The earliest earls and the lordliest lords,
Nabobs and niggers from India’s strand
And the juiciest Jews that they raise on the
Rand.
Marshals and marquises, brewers in sheaves,
Admirals, aldermen, stock-exchange thieves,
And the duckiest duchesses, gorgeously
gowned,
Will flock into London to see the king
crowned.
Princes and Premiers from over the seas
Will jostle the Rajahs and Labor M.P’s.;
The peerage and beerage will crowd in the
Strand,
With squatters and rotters who libel their
land.
And, when you consider the crowd and the
time,
You expect them to burst into babyish
rhyme:
“With a rumpity-bump, and a pit-a-pit-pat,
To see an archbishop put on the king’s hat.”
But I put it to you. as a friend to a friend :
What the deuce is the use of it all in the
end?
For you’d think, once he's under bis gorgeous
cover,
There ought to be something to show when
it’s over.
But, save you ! lie don t wear the thing in
tliG street,
To signify something to coves he may meet;
He wraps it in wadding and puts it away,
And wears a plain billycock tile every day!
And when all the blither and blather is o’er,
The rustle and bustle, the rush and the roar,
Then, this is what calls for hilarious laugh-
ter :
He's just as much monarch before it as'
after !
The bills and the bailiffs come round as be-
fore,
And buzz-flies will buzz in the springtime
once more,
It doesn’t make milkers or mining shares
rise,
Or cure indigestion or specks fore the eyes.
The welkin may ring with the national glee,
(You’ll know, tliougn I don’t, what the wel-
kin may be),
And the “thin crimson thread of our kin-
ship” may twang;
But that ain’t improvin’ the birthrate a
hang.
So, I put it to you, as a cobber to cobber:
Do you see the sense of this silly old slob-
ber ?
Take any old head, and take any old hat,
Shove one on the other and —what’s there in
that?
For a hat is a hat, and a head is a head,
And a joke is a joke, as Fvc previously said;
But a farce is a farce, and, I give you my
word ,
This roofing of kings is becoming absurd.
VICTORIA.
DEN.


Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery.
Is the most wonderful remedy ever discovered for
Coughs and Colds. It will relieve you when all
others have failed. Is. 6d. and 3s.*
BEARD’S British-Built Bioscope,
second to none. Sole Agents—Jerdan’s
Ltd., 393 George Street, Sydney. Let us send
you particulars.*
(ARRINGTONS LTD.,
The Cinematograph
Supply House.
The largest assortment of CINEMATOGRAPHS AND
FILMS always in stock by the World’s best makers.
If you want to procure a better supply of Films than
you are obtaining- at present, tretintocommunicatioii
with us and state your requirements. Our Film
Library is the largest in the Commonwealth.
We are the people to give you satisfaction.
SYDNEY—MELBOURNE—BRISBANE—ADELAIDE.
Andy Fisher seems to have kept his head
steady in the Conference whirl in spite of
many temptations to dizziness. Not an
easy matter for the ordinary mortal unless
his resistance is reinforced by D.C.L. wis-
dom. But to the intelligent man all things
are possible when his mental equilibrium is
maintained by D.C.L., the Whisky of the
Wise.*
The INVINCIBLE LIST.
Eor Motor Cars
Motor Repairs
Motor Accessories
Marine Motors
Farm Engines
Electric Lighting Sets
Irrigation Plants
Motor Hoists.
Invincible Motor Construction Co., Ltd.,
Works: WOOLWICH, SYDNEY.
Showrooms : 35 PITT STREET, SYDNEY;
519 LITTLE COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
ADELAIDE: BANK STREET.
Franz Josef
Lager Beer
SparKling,
Refreshing',
Exhilarating
and Pure.
Franz Josef possesses the true Lager quality
and character, being sharp, clean H and of
light gravity.
In my garden the sunflowers bow to me in mockery.
As I open the door I thank Heaven that it will end
some day. Some day I will go and live somewhere
else.
♦
The great superiority of Private Enterprise:
After some years of indecision, Launceston (Tas.)
decided in favor of municipal trams. The City
Fathers, or Granfers, dodging the responsibility of
installation, let tenders (1) for laying the track,
and (2) for building the cars; and Private Enterprise
sailed in to show How To Do It. The trouble
started on the first pay-day, when the navvies went
on strike. It appears that they had gone on to the
job, expecting 7s. per day, whereas 6s. was what
they were paid. In went the shovels, and the road
professors departed, leaving the undergraduates and
“free” laborers to push on with the track. These
pushed on at such an alarming rate that the con-
tractors applied for 100 days extension of time on
the following grounds: (1) Strikes, (2) holidays,
(3) shortage of metal, (4) bad weather. As for
strikes, that was their own pigeon; as for holidays,
if Private Enterprise cannot calculate the number of
holidays that will overtake it in the course of an
eight months’ contract, the time is ripe for closing
the business; the shortage of metal was only for
about a week ; and the bail weather was "the ordinary
brand of the article. Nevertheless, the council
granted an extension of 80 days, and on its expira-
tion on May 10, fully three of the seven miles of
track were completed. Under the contract 14 cars
were due on January 11. On May 10 not one was
complete, and the contractors attributed the position
to “the extraordinary' scarcity of skilled artisans,”
which is as good as anv other excuse for the extra-
ordinary failure of Private Enterprise. The only
grain of consolation to Launceston’s citizens is that
they may get some of their cars for nix, as the pen-
alties incurred amount to £1375. On the other
hand, there is probably a nice little law-case brew-
ing over the whole matter. The council is carrying
£29 4s. 7d. per week interest on the capital in-
volved, and as the total begins to make a serious-
looking pile, the Mayor is threatening to cancel the
contract for the track, and get the council to com-
plete it; and Private Enterprise feels that it has
every reason to be aggrieved and even indignant.
♦
Victoria’s new sub-Excellency is credited
with a desire to make himself popu-
lar, but he will have to change his tune, or
one class at any rate will love him little. A
week after landing he went up to the Mace-
don Cottage, and the “thing that struck him
most was the large areas with only a house
here and there, lie had expected to see the
country round Melbourne thickly settled,
and was looking for small holdings.” Later
on his Ex. Fuller will discover that, so far
from it being considered disgraceful to hold
large areas of unsettled land. Society puts
its very choicest brand on “the squatter,”
and especially the freeholding squatter, if
his Ex. wants to do a really good thing for
the country—one of the few things that a
Gov. can do—he will just upend that plan,
and bestow the same frigid face on the mon-
opoliser of land that the sensible person
would confer on the monopoliser of water
during a famine in a beleaguered city.
“Lex” on a High Court judgment:—
In the High Court, last week, the Chief Justice
laid it down that it is not contempt of Court for the
Press to impute partiality to a Judge, and accuse
him of repaying by his actions on the Bench the
political party to whom he owed his appointment.
Thus it appears that a newspaper may tell C.J.
Griffith that, when he was Premier Of Queensland,
he raised the Chief Justice’s salary and immediately
appointed himself to the billet —a cynical trans-
action which took the community’s breath away.
Also, it seems, a paper may allege that any particular
Judge—say, Griffith —is grossly biassed against
Labor legislation, and that his judgments are colored
by that bias; that if Justice Isaacs can be lured by
: counsel to express a view hostile to their case, they
are practically bound to have Chief Justice Griffith
searching for arguments in their favor ; that the day
before Griffith delivered judgment in the matter of
the Crown v. Nicholls, he had had a difference with,
say, Justice Higgins, and that the judgment was in-
tended more as a sort of general license to insult
Higgins than as a free permit to the Press to criti-
cise the judiciary generally. And so on.
Several of Griffith’s judgments during last year
bitterly disappointed Federal Laborites. Here and
there an exasperated politician hinti* that the C.J.
lacked that stern impartiality of political outlook
which is desirable in a High Court Judge. Conser-
vatism was up in arms at once. The suggestion was
termed “an infamy,” “an un-British attack on a man
who could not defend himself,” and conduct of which
none but ignorant and malicious Labor persons could
be capable. It turns out that Griffith’s critics
were well within their rights. The members of the
Commonwealth’s final Court of Appeal may be pub-
licly represented as not only contemptible, but dan-
gerously so (for what is more dangerous and con-
temptible than a biassed Judge ?), and the circum-
stance will not constitute contempt of Court. It
presents the Law in one of the most unfortunate
aspects it has yet adopted.
Page, M.L.A. for Botany (N.S.W.), worked
and voted No-No on the Referenda ; and the
Botany leagues refuse to be pacified until
Page is scalped as a disloyalist. Page,
scenting danger, threw himself before the
judgment seat of the central executive of the
P.L.L. That body decided that it can do
nothing but convene a conference to deal
with the whole position, provided 20 leagues
make application. In that case, what will
be sauce for Page will necessarily be
essence of cayenne for Holman, Beeby and
others. In the Assembly a few nights ago,
Geo. Black, one of the members of the
central executive, stated that he had con-
veyed a message to all Labor members of
Parliament that there was no obligation up-
on any of them to speak for or against the
Referenda proposals. In other words, there
was no obligation to assist the Australian
Labor party to carry through the Aus-
tralian Labor policy. If that is the view of
the central committee of the P.L.L., it is
time somebody made inquiries as to its suit-
ability for its job.
All the horsehair in the Adelaide Criminal
Court curled in horror last week. A jury
somehow broke away from its guardians and
came back into court with a cheerful verdict
of “Guilty, by 9 to 3.” It was such a
dreadful breach of etiquette, that the jury
was hurried back to see if it couldn’t be
unanimous. Within a quarter of an hour it
was ! In view of that peep into the works,
it is worth asking: (1) How many other
verdicts that say—have to say—they are
unanimous are really as little unanimous as
this one? (2) What is the real value of a
system that drives minorities, on pain of long
confinement and a Judge’s discouraging
frown, to say they agree when really they
don’t?
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Jack and the Beanstalk.”
Royal “ The Balkan Princess.”
Criterion “The Gay Gordons.”
Town Hall Sheffield'Choir.
Adelphi “ Driving a Girl to Destruction.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Palace West’s Pictures.
Princess West’s Pictures.
Lyceum Spencer’s Pictures.
National Amphitheatre Brennan’s Vaudeville Co.
Lyric Continuous Pictures.
Colonial (Nos. 1 & 2).. Continuous Pictures.
Glaciarium Ice Skating.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEHIv.
Princess’s “ Nobody’s Daughter.”
Her Majesty’s “Our Miss Gibbs."
Royal “The Woman in the Case.”
King’s “A Woman of Pleasure.”
Glaciarium Sousa’s Band.
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co,
West’s Palace West’s Pictures.
Olympia Spencer’s Pictures. •
Lyric, Prahran Photo Plays.
Musical comedy seems to be definitely
settling down into a medium for depicting
life in the highest social circles of Europe.
All over the world the “Princess” brand of
choral play is insidiously ousting the mere
“Girl” show. The distinguishing marks of
the new order of piece are garish male uni-
forms, glittering restaurants, herds of wine-
bibbing demi-mondaines (the virtuous and
practically teetotal stage shop-girl is almost
extinct), a waltz motif, and a hero with ..he
tastes of a Brigham Young. These shows
differ in the superficial ways in which one
attractive woman differs from the next.
“The Balkan Princess,” which arrived at
Sydney Theatre Royal last week, suggests an
extremely pretty girl witli a poor voice. The
stage-settings are exquisite, and so are the
clothes ; the chorus ladies are delightful; the
men wear their uniforms successfully ; the
picture is satisfying throughout. But the
music is for the most part undistinguished,
not to say dull. In deference to the modern
passion for the presentation of amateur
crime on the boards, two persons of the
Raffles type are introduced. They provide
considerable diversion, and, having served
their purpose, make a highly unconvincing
exit. The production is strong on the hum-
orous side, a circumstance for which the
comedians, and not their lines, is responsi-
ble.
Duke Sergius is the name of the eroto-
maniacal hero. The Bohemian Restaurant
—a draughty but artistically-designed estab-
lishment, where there is no food, but a
chronic plethora of fair and in no wise
prudish ladies —is the place where he
spends his waking hours. He loves all the
female habitues of the Bohemian Restaur-
ant, and especially one Sofia. Sofia loves
him madly ; and so do all her friends. Prin-
cess Stephanie is up against the usual matri-
monial problem which obtrudes itself on mu-
sical comedy royalties as soon as they
reach the marriageable age. So she goes to
the Bohemian Restaurant —having previ-
ously disguised herself by removing her
crown —and takes a seat. She is at once
Grossly Insulted. Sergius has the guilty
party evicted with ignominy, and wades in
to make good on his own account. How he
swiftly captures her affections (the play of
realism wherein the Juanesque hero is acidly
instructed to behave like a gentleman, and
not try to take advantage of a respectable
girl, but, instead, to drink up and go home
to his wife and grown-up offspring, has yet
to be written) ; how they waltz together;
how Sofia is simply heart-broken ; how a mis-
understanding arises whereby Stephanie and
Sergius are temporarily estranged ; and how
it is cleared up —these are events which no
lover of bogus sentiment should miss.
A MINUTE OF MELODRAMA (“ Under
Two Flags,” at Sydney Adelphi).
10.59 p.m. — Robt. Inman (Hero) scorns death.
10.59½ p-m.—Bosom friend, John Cosgrove
(Baronet), weeps.
10.59¼ p-m.—Cigarette to the rescue.
11 p.m. The tragic end. Cigarette’s death.
Frank Greene provides an unimpeachable
Duke. His Sergius is about the handsomest
royalty that Sydney has seen on or oft the
stage, and Greene manages deftly to convey
the impression that he is not absolutely
haunted by the fact. His fine baritone is
heard to great effect in “Dear Delightful
Women.” Miss Young (Princess Stephanie)
wears some gorgeous clothes, and sings her
rather poor numbers effectively. Miss Lot-
tie Sargent makes a violent and well-merited
hit as Magda. She is that rare bird, an
actress who can dance. Bert Gilbert’s
Henry, the waiter, is as good a thing as he
has done. Henry is not a lunatic in dress
clothes, but a dreary, bored, useless and en-
tirely life-like restaurant attendant, and a
wildly funny one at that. As Prince Boris,
Langford Kirby is the artist he always is.
He sings the indispensable waltz song, the
most alluring number in the show. Miss
Olive Godwin and W. S. Percy score heavily
and often, and there is some excellent danc-
ing.
** * *
The Sheffield Choir, atter unpacking its
1400 trunks and hastily chewing a cough
lozenge, was clearing its throat when the
Printer said that the Stereotyper was tread-
ing on his heels, and the Stereotyper said
the Machine-boss was pushing him, and the
Machine-boss said it wasn’t his fault, but
the Publisher was addicted to bad language,
and the Publisher said he would be an angel
if it wasn’t for the horrid necessity of catch-
ing mails. So this issue had time merely
to hear the conductor call attention with
his stick, while the great choir put on its
most business-like expression, and plunged
into Handel's “Messiah.” Every evening
this week the Sydney Town Llall is going to
be crowded; on Saturday afternoon the
Choir and the Symphony people will mingle
their noises; and those who haven’t seized
the opportunity to hear the wandering min-
strels by Tuesday afternoon will, according
to present arrangements, have to chase them
to Melbourne to do it. And, as Melbourne
is a cold place in June, it isn’t advisable to
let things go to that extreme.
*** # ;
The pantomime is in its last nights at
Her Majesty’s, Sydney. In another week
the galaxy of beauty and talent will migrate
to Brisbane. The Northerners will not
meet Miss Sybil Arundale. She is yield-
ing up the part of principal boy to Miss
Mabelle Morgan, a Melbourne girl who
smote Sydney in its affections when the
“Mother Goose” show was here some years
ago.
#* * *
The other day the writer asked one of
“The Gay Gordons” how the piece was go-
ing. “Hoots, mon!” he replied brightly,
“dinna fash yersel. The show’s aw richt.”
Which being rendered into Sassenach may
be taken to mean that the Criterion man-
agement is still raking in the bawbees, and
will shortly be able to afford haggis at
every meal.
** * «
“Driving a Girl to Destruction” is to be
staged at the Adelphi (Sydney) on Satur-
day ; and, if there is any virtue in a title—-
which in general means if there is any vice
in it —George Marlow Ltd. will have to pack
its audience by hydraulic pressure.
** * *
Drunken Dan is back at the Tivoli for a
week, thus giving Sydney a final chance to
repent and go to the dogs before it is com-
pletely crushed by the weight of its accumu-
lating bank balance. The Columbia Trio,
though capital, have not yet been driven
from the country ; the Australian Dartos still
whirl in their Danse des Apaches; Arthur
Croxton has returned to Australia with his
monologue entertainment; Fanny Powers
still, with your kind permission, gives a few
imitations of people she has seen and heard ;
and the juggling of the Kavanagh Boys,
the assorted music of Eunice and Dare, and
the apparent safety with which Charles
Zoli dances on roller skates are also matters
worth inquiring into. The Zanfrella equili-
brists and the two spinning Lillies are pro-
mises for next week.
** # *
The new programme at the Colonial Thea-
tre No. 1 (Sydney) leads off with “The Em-
barkation of Colonial Soldiers,” by the Pathd
Co. This is followed by a humorous exposi-
tion of what a man will do for love, the
thing that is said to share with money the
responsibility of making the world go round.
“The Disreputable Mr. Ragan” is described
as “a new high-class melodrama” by the
Edison Co. Edison does good photographic
work, but, as a rule, his yarns are not up to
the photographic standard of his work. The
tail end of the programme includes three
Pathe films, including “ Jael and Sisera,” one
of the most interesting and romantic of the
films produced by the great French co. At
the Colonial Theatre No. 2, just across the
street, the show opens with a splendid
representation of Rome, the city of the
Caesars and Pontiffs. Some amazing conjur-
ing tricks performed by a shadowy con-
jurer make a light snack before the glories
of Boniface VIII., by the Pathd Co.,
stream across the screen. “The Test of
L<>ve.” an Edison lolly-drama, “Elephants
Racin' 1- ,” “A Father’s Punishment,” and
“Good King Dagobert,” by the Pathd Co.,
round off a diversified programme.
#* * #
West’s Pictures, at the Princess and
Palace Theatres, Sydney, are still, in re-
sponse to General Desire, making a feature
of “A Tale of Two Cities,” Dickens’s dol-
orous drama, which gets almost as great a
hold on the weepful public as “East Lynne.’ 1
The opening of the Festival of Empire at
the Crystal Palace, London, on May 12,
makes a gorgeous display. The vagaries of
Foolshead serve as an interlude between the
harrowing and the educational, and so do
those of Tontolini and his clarionet. The
Pisa film makes a beautiful place more beau-
tiful even than it is. The industrial film
is devoted to an exposition of how electric
filament lamps are made. As most people
know, the Princess is the Bijou beautified
and renovated ; since the alterations and im-
provements it is a charming little theatre.
'Vest’s will shortly have a film showing “Our
Navy,” to which it is fondly hoped the
patriotic will roll up in their usual crowds.
“OUR MISS GIBBS," AT
HER MAJESTY’S,
MELBOURNE.
Colin Campbell as the
taxi-cabby.
Miss Fitzmaurice Gill as the Duchess
of Minster.
“Nobody’s Daughter,” which introduced
Plimmer and Denniston’s dramatic party
to Melbourne at the Princess’s on June 10,
is a drama singularly barren of actable pas-
sages, till the crisis arrives in Act 3. It
deals with two affluent families, the Framp-
tons and the Torrenses, residing in affection-
ate juxtaposition, although, 20 years earlier,
prior to present connubial arrangements, the
Torrens man and the Frampton woman had
made the usual mistake, and had left the re-
sult with a grim, religious female who could
not tell a lie. In this stony virgin’s foster-
ing care the little slip has developed into a
charming impropriety of 19. Hereabout the
dour, Scotchbyterian spinster decides that
Mrs. Frampton’s early indiscretion must go
home to roost; so Honora May is introduced
into the Frampton household, and accepted
without argument by the Frampton male as
a casual ward from the dark background,
whose career his wife and his chum have
been supervising for 19 years. Frampton is
too green to be true, and only probes into
the girl’s past with the amiable intention of
providing her with a set of legitimate rela-
tions. Of course he blunders into his wife’s
private cupboard, and discloses the bones,
and then the play wakes up. This is well on
in the penultimate act, however, when “No-
body’s Daughter” is rather past saving as a
serious contribution to dramatic literature.
Geo. Paston, who wrote “Nobody’s Daugh-
ter,” makes irritating use of the journey-
man-dramatist’s cheap device of employing
two or more characters to relate facts with
which they are already well acquainted. Of
course, the audience must be told the story
somehow, but the dramatist who is not in-
genious enough to dodge this method of tell-
ing it has mistaken his call. Miss Lizette
Parkes turns Honora May out rather well.
Her girlishness is fresh and clean. The
effort displays not much more than the sur-
face of a very nice girl, but is piquant at
that. The “auld kirk licht” who desires that
Mrs. Frampton’s sin shall find her at home
has a good exponent in Miss Pigott. This
lady presents a tough and bony emblem of
grace. Mrs. Brough, who has a faculty for
picturing middle-aged females in distress,
handles Mrs. Frampton with ability, but can-
not make that somewhat damp lady really
interesting. Nobody could. Harry Plim-
mer is the grass-green Frampton who has
allowed his wife and his male neighbor to
have a joint ward in the country for 19
years without growing curious about it.
Plimmer shows a good deal of craft in mak-
ing Frampton a kindly sort of simpleton.
Reynolds Denniston appears as Torrens,
whose attitude is silent and sensible, and the


STOUT LADIES SAGELY ADVISED.
In a few years that excessive stoutness of yours
will become inveterate—impossible to cure. Better
take time by the forelock and reduce noiv in a
natural way, if you would maintain the symmetry
of twenty through middle age. Go to vour chemist
and ask him for one half-ounce of Marmola, one
ounce of fluid extract of Glyeyrrhiza 8.P., one
ounce of pure Glycerine 8.P., and Peppermint
Water to make six ounces. Mix them at home,
but see that the Marmola comes to you in a sealed
package. Take two teaspoonfuls after meals.
This mixture makes firm-limbed, well-formed
women out of over-stout ones. It stimulates the
system to burn up the food fats instead of allow-
ing them to be deposited in the abdominal region.
Without disturbing the diet or requiring exercise
to help it out, it dissolves the superfluous fat
away. It has been known to melt away harm-
lessly as much as 16 ounces a day without causing
a single wrinkle.
In order to meet a constantly repeated demand,
the above prescription has been condensed in the
form of a compact and perfect tablet known as
Marmola Prescription Tablets . and those readers
who prefer them to the liquid form can obtoAn same
of any chemist, 3s. 6d. per box, or post free from
The Marmola Co., 7 Barrack Street, Sydney,
N.S.W.*
Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED,
PITT AND KINO STREETS, SYDNEY.
FIRE ACCIDENT, EMPLOYERS’ LIABILITY, PLATE GLASS, Etc.
Lowest Rates Charged.
’ P.ions No. '236 Central.
Settlements Prompt and Equitable. G. HOWARD POPE, Manager.
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman.
actor is comfortably bestowed. _ Miss Valen-
tine Sidney’s Mrs. Torrens is the sanest
party on George Paston s bill. She is the
wife of the offending male, and having dis-
covered the skeleton in her hubby s cup-
board, is content to spray it with bichloride
of mercury, lock the door, and lose the key.
She is a wise woman who understands the
folly of finding out too much, and on Satur-
day Miss Sidney presented her with all the
care imaginable within the limits of a din.
skirt.
** * *
Sousa’s Band is still at Melbourne Glaci-
arium where it continues to make much
music which is beautifully impressive, and
more which is irresistibly popular. I his
week there is a matinee every day, as well
as the performances beginning at 8 p.m.,
and terminating after the final encore. In
those encore numbers the art of Sousa, the
musician of business, gleams brightest.. He
raps them out without worrying the audience
with long intervals for persistent applause,
and in most cases they are rousing little
Sousa things which everybody has heard
before, but nobody has heard so well played.
Only a musical crank would bemoan the fact
that “Has Anybody Here Seen Kelly?” is
about the most widely beloved item in
Sousa’s bag of tricks. If he didn’t cater
wisely for the crowd he wouldn’t be the
father of a famous band ; and if there were
no such band its very finest performances
could not come to pass. Nor would a very
clever girl violinist, and an equally nice-
looking light soprano, be travelling with
the company.
** * *
At the King’s the present discourse re-
lates to “A Woman of Pleasure,” who de-
serts her husband with great energy, escapes
from a balloon, abandons a burning ship,
and finally returns to home and father, ac-
companied by the chimes of Christmas bells.
It is, it will be observed, a moving story
and it has also the doubtful advantage of
being lightly infused with the English
humor. This humor is full of deliberate
points, and is most finely displayed in the
gestures of a yokel and the capers of a come-
dian deprived of his pants. Pure tragedy,
however, is not forgotten, and the audience
burns with the pride of race when it sees
how brave English soldiers go to their doom.
Drawn up on the quarter-deck of a blazing
vessel, they slowly sink to a watery grave,
sans interest, sans fear, sans speech. Miss
Erris, and Messrs. Redgrave, Duggan,
Bailey and Beckett are mainly observed in
faihiliar parts ; but Miss D’Alton makes a
novel appearance as a Yankee ma with a
stolen twang. Miss Duggan, who has been
recently resting, is the excitable “woman of
pleasure,” who occasionally bursts out into
vocal fury to match the lady’s millinery.
# * *
Upon further consideration, “The Wo-
man in the Case” resolves itself into a dia-
logue for two wild women. We might dis-
pense with even Buckler’s excellent consign-
ment of frozen lawyer, and leave the two
ladies to fight the whole drama out on the
mat in the interests of vice and virtue. It
is their funeral solely. So condensed, the
woman who did, and the woman by whom
she was done, would provide an excellent and
elevating turn for Band of Hope meetings
and Recliabite shivoos. As it is, attend-
ances at Melb. Royal are large, and a
marked fall in the local consumption of the
Curse should result.
** * *
Melbournians are still crowding up the
stairs in Exhibition-street to try to discover
exactly what Sydney saw in “Our Miss
Gibbs,” and the prevailing note in popular
oral criticism is one of interrogation. Suffi-
cent excuses for moderate appreciation are
easily found, and a reasonable run seems ex-
cusable —but not a Marathon.
** * *
R. A. Roberts is concluding his season at
the Opera House in the highly-fantastic
“Coppinger” sketch. The playlet is some*
what weak as regards construction; but the
smartness of the artist is sufficient to atone
for that defect. His quickness in convers-
ing with himself as Paul Lavelle and Sir
Clifford Ross is not more remarkable than
his change from the former to the wild
figure of the pirate chief. Cadwell and
Verne are the most recent arrivals —song-
and-dance artists for whom this paper feels
no lively admiration.
** * *
The Tait firm screened its pictorial treas-
ures at the Melbourne Town Hall on Satur-
day night. Principal among the pictures
displayed was a film anent Pope Boniface
VIII., which showed incidents in his struggle
with Philip the Fair. Another good film
was “The Tumbler’s Wife,” but the feature
of the evening was “The Stolen Claim.”
The big figures in the piece are a couple of
men, one of whom collars the other’s mine,
and also annexes his promised bride. Fol-
lows a scurry of sensations in which the bad
man dies in a fit of delirium, while the good
man recovers his valuable hole in the earth
and resumes his place in the lady’s arms.
** * *
At Melbourne Olympia “The Fatal Wed-
ding” was the film de resistance on Saturday
last Among other pictures was “The Out-
law’and the Child,” which stirred the popu-
lace to its boots. The bandit saves the
che-ild from dying of thirst, and then per-
forms a picturesque perish with wavy eyes,
writhes, and protruding tongue. This week
“A Tale of Two Cities” is being most
scanned by the popular eye. Dickens’s
story has been filmed by an American co.,
and the production is a work of art.
** * *
Katherine Grey is having a change at Ade-
laide Royal. Hitherto she has mostly been
the matter-of-fact American young woman;
now she is a London waif. Desmond is al-
ready a firm favorite. As for Mackay (who
incidentally became a father on Friday
last), his work in “The Third Degree” as
the youth with no moral backbone comes as
near perfection as need be. Reichen’s al-
most incredibly trained balancing dogs are
crowding the Tivoli, which has Scott Gib-
son, Alf Holt, and other good turns as well.
The King’s has broken out into a
season of what it calls “polite vaudeville,”
with Raymond, another “handcuff-king,”
thrown in. “Henry VII.” has been filmed
at West’s, with Mrs. Reeves, a skilled elocu-
tionist, engaged to supply the words. “A
Tale of Two Cities” has followed the
pearian experiment
AT POVERTY POINT.
Much attention is directed to the condition of
Armes Beaumont, the very sweet singer of former
days. The ancient is 70 years of age, and, through
an early gun-accident, can only now see with half
an eye. In view of his professional jubilee, which is
to happen this year, a, strong committee is arranging
to get in subscriptions on his behalf. John Madden
heads the movement, and Melba is giving financial
support.
Dion Calthrop, novelist and playwright, who
“dressed” the characters for the so-called Corona-
tion performance of Bulwer Lytton’s “Money,” is a
nephew of Dot Boucicault. His father, John
Clayton Calthrop (known on the stage as John
Clayton), married the eldest daughter of the orig-
inal Dion Boucicault. Actor Clayton had a painter
brother —Calthrop, R.A.—from whom the boy prob-
ably got some of the lore that he put into his
“History of Costume.” Dion Calthrop had an as-
sortment of hereditary talent to draw upon, any-
how. It is worth noting that, although his father
was a distinguished actor and his mother’s parents
were a brilliant pair of Irish comedians, the young
fellow has refrained from going right on to the
stage. He gets no nearer than the wings.
Rupert Clarke is interviewed in London Referee,
which describes him as theatrical manager, operatic
impresario, planting pioneer in Papua, shearer of
200,000 sheep a year, manufacturer of butter and
cheese, winner of most of the Australian classic
horse-races, one of the earliest gold diggers at Cool-
gardie, a doer of very big things as a horse-dealer
in India, yachtsman, shooter, politician, and much
besides. “But I assure you,” said Rupert, “that of
all the many enterprises I have tried, the theatrical
business is the most risky and uncertain.” And for
that reason he loves it best of all.
Death took over, within the last fortnight, a
mummer of some note, Edward C. Corlesse, the ori-
ginal Cattermole in Australia. He was a member of
the Brough and Boucicault, Bland Holt and Frank
Thornton cos., but an accident had thrown him out
of the running for some years past.
“Ino”: “Bowbell” (B. 8/6/’ll) says Gilbert
“could not put an ounce of genuine human feeling
in his writing, and never touched the heart at all.”
Whose heart? I have, anyhow, known tears to rise
at the hearing of Lady Jane’s “Silver’d is the raven
hair, Spreading is the taper waist.” The pathos of
the woman who never had any charm, even greater
than that of her whose charms are waning, is stressed
in Katisha. The tragedy of the unattractive, un-
loved man is developed in Jack Point. Can anyone
see his finish without being saddened? The “Yeomen
of the Guard” is full of more or less obvious tragedy.
A lady once remonstrated with Gilbert on the mar-
riage of Phoebe to the forbidding gaoler. His reply
was: “Twelve out of every 20 marriages are un-
happy. Why shouldn’t I write about some of the
unhappy ones?”
From London: “Kismet” is a big success. It has
stamped Oscar Asche as one of the best producers of
the day. The book reads rather dull, but gives great
opportunities for spectacle, and more of them have
been neglected. The orchestra is invisible; the
music seems to come from the stage-boxes. Before
each act stray characters play a sort of prologue,
and between the scenes a cloth depicting an Oriental
street scene is dropped, and all sorts of characters
pass and repass, continuing the story and retaining
the atmosphere of the play without being an integral
part of it. Of course, Asche dominates the whole
thing. “Kismet” will go to Australia. But will the
Criterion be big enough?
Oscar Asche lost one night’s “Kismet” takings.
A pair of London burglars spent a Sabbath engineer-
ing their way into the manager’s office at the Gar-
rick, and cleared out with £4OO in notes, gold and
silver.
“Harrison O.”: The manager of the Melbourne
Theatre Royal states that “appreciation of acting is
a matter of taste.” “Snell” asserts that it is “a
matter of education and experience.” Seems to me
that with a number of our great dailies, which re-
ceive bloated theatrical advts., it is merely a matter
of form.
“Neil”: Please let me ask the Sheffield Choir to
drop the guff about ardent Imperialism. I have it
shrieked in my tired ear that the principal object
of the tour is to strengthen the silken bonds. But
when you find that the price of seeing this interest-
ing operation ranges from 10s. 6d. to 55., it raises
a slight suspicion that there will be a few gold
threads running through the silk. Who wouldn’t do
a little Empire-building if he could get an audience
of a few thousands at half a guinea a head to watch
him work ?
• “Screen”: A union of biograph operators is form-
ing in Melbourne. It is proposed to affiliate with
the Stage Hands, though their society is so weak
that I hardly ever know whether it is alive or not.
It is nothing like so hardy as the Sydney stage
hands’ union, and that again is not a patch on the
one in New York for influence. Indeed, the sub-
division of stage labor is carried to an almost ab-
surd extent in N’York through the power of the so-
ciety. The musicians rule the roost in Melbourne,
and perhaps the cino.-men can cotton on to then*.
“0.K.”: Re the remuneration of the Melba grand
opera band. The demand for an extra £1 per week
travelling allowance seems very reasonable. Even in
the time of the Duke of Plaza Toro, when there was
no musicians’ union, bandsmen were recognised as
“sordid persons,” who took a purely commercial
view of their profession. Manager Williamson’s con-
tention that the salaried resident members of the
firm’s orchestras in Sydney and Melbourne ought not
to ask for the extra £1 is practically a contention
that instrumentalists ought to be ready to sacrifice
something to oblige the management. He seems to
speak of paying proficient Sydney orchestrians £4
13s. 4d. a week in their own city, and £5 ss. when
they are in Melbourne, as a fair thing. But, ob-
viously, a Sydney resident violinist transferred tem-
porarily to Melbourne, or vice versa, isn’t sufficiently
recompensed with an additional 11s. Bd. The extra
money doesn’t pay his extra expenses if he’s a mar-
ried man with a home and family in the city he has
left. Also, he may be able to earn fees apart from
his salary in the city where he is domiciled which
he can’t earn when he is away from it. As to
special payment for rehearsals, when a quick-change
season of grand opera makes special claims on the
attendance of the orchestra, that seems to resolve it-
self into a question of how many hours’ service per
week the workers (with an all-the-year-round en-
gagement) are entitled to give for their wage. Thug
far there doesn’t appear to be any sort of under-
standing as to overtime in the orchestra trade.
“Stargazer”: At one metropolitan vaudeville en-
tertainment visited during this week (June 8) I
found three performers going so brazenly over the
odds with their patter that I borrow a brolly and a
belltopper, and set up as a Willie Wowser. The jests
in each case were flagrantly obscene; they were
rubbed in with brutal bluntness, and repeated with
the irritating iteration of a cockatoo. Two of the
performers were good enough without this grossness ;
the third was bad enough without it. Surely every
manager will admit that the scribbled jocosities of
the public latrine are out of place at a show that
professes to cater for decent people? It isn’t pos-
sible that they profit 2d. by permitting dunder-
headed obscenities. Then why ?
In his new piece—“ Fanny’s First Play”—G. B.
Pshaw pokes fun at the eminent critics. A. B.
Walkley, of the Times, who is gibed at under the
name of Mr. Trotter, gets back rather neatly. While
some rated G. B. S. for his “bad taste,” Walkley
professed that he didn’t know the person Trotter
was supposed to represent. “We rather like Air.
Trotter,” he said ; “he is a pure spiritual essence, a
weird shadow from the world of impossible dreams.”
“Screen”: They come. Will they go? A new
Melbourne picture theatre is to be built in Flinders-
street, next Ball and Welch’s, near St. Paul’s Cathe-
dral. This came out in a case before Justice
a’Beckett. The Trust estate of the Allee family
owns four shops there, and they bring in only £6 a
week. The Judge was asked to sanction a lease for
35 years to a picture co., which will erect a picture
theatre at a cost of £lB,OOO, and pay £lOOO a year
to the family. The Judge said he wouldn’t stand
in the way of a deal of that sort.
Melbourne solicitor Joe Woolf has just fired a
batch of writs at the local Sports and Amusements
Co., George Wirth and W. B. AlcCutcheon. Woolf
is acting on behalf of Henry Bardolph, lessee of
Wirths’ Skating Rink, and claims damages for various
things, including alleged assault, trespass and mis-
representation. The action, with which McCutcheon
is connected merely as solicitor to the landlord, is
said to have arisen through the co. re-entering into
possession of the skating rink upon an alleged frac-
ture of some of the lessee’s covenants.
“Condot”: Private letters state that Thomas
Barker, the Melbourne harpist, has reached Wales,
his birthplace, and has already beeen booked for two
engagements in London. He will return to Mel-
bourne in about a year. In South Wales Richard
Barker, his father, is called “The King of the Harp-
ists.” F. 0. Barker, another son, harps in London,
and has also composed a deal of music.
“The Arcadians,” finishing its second year at the
Shaftesbury, London, has got out a kind of second
edition, with new songs for Sombra, “My Heart Flies
Homing”; for Miss Kavanagh, “I’ll be a Sister to
You All” ; and for the sporting hero, “Have a Bit
on with Ale.”
James Stirtsin recently pounded the piano con-
tinuously for 86 hours at Invercargill (AI.L.), and
broke the world’s record. The amazing part is that
Invercargill, a town with a reputation for shrewd-
ness, is said to have got quite excited over the in-
sanity.
“0.K.”: Our old friend Chirgwin, the “White-
Eyed Kaffir,” completed a half-century of variety-
stage experience a while ago, and the bosses of the
music-hall world organised a Chirgwin testimonial
to celebrate the event. The veteran “Kaffir” was
presented with a memento, and the balance of the
fund was, at his request, devoted to charity, as he
has enough put by for himself. During his six
months in Australia, on a salary of £lOO a week,
he remitted £l5OO to his bank in London! Among
“JIMMIE” ATHOL-
WOOD, ACTOE.
variety artists Chirg-
win is esteemed as an
ornament to the pro-
fession and a practical
supporter of its bene-
volent fund. Origin-
ally he took half share,
or less than half, with
his brother in a ster-
eotyped nigger min-
strel duologue ; but his
brother left him in
the lurch at a mo-
ment’s notice. Their
turn was only a £ 6 a
week affair—a utility
item—so the manager
called upon the lone
Chirgwin to go on and
do something off his
own bat, or consider
himself off the salary
list. In mental agony,
Chirgwin thought that
if he were to paint a
white diamond around
one eye, the piebald
effect might deaden
the audience’s sense of
h i s shortcom-
ings. Shouts of beery
merriment gave him
heart to attempt one
or two experiments in
dumb foolishness, and
his sweet nasal sing-
ing voice did the rest.
The White-Eyed Kaffir
had arrived. For a
while he drank freely
to his good health and
fortune, but happen-
ing to notice that his
older distinguished
confreres were mostly
working up to bad
health and bloated im-
pecuniosity, Chirgwin turned teetotaler and started
to take care of his useful throat and invaluable lean
figure. So he has lived to be uncommonly well pro-
vided for.
Katherine Grey made her first effort to get on the
stage when she was nine, running away from her
home at ’Frisco to San Jose, but the effort ended in a
thrashing. Daly, she says, engaged her first at 10
dollars a week, to oblige a friend. From Ada Rehan
she got practical hints: “Sit down whenever you
can, and save your vitality,” and “eat a lot.” From
James A. Herne (who gave her her first chance in
N’York) she learned values in realism: “If you cry
about yourself on the stage the audience won’t sym-
pathise. It is only tears for the sorrows of others
that affect it.” From Mansfield and Duse she learned
management of the voice: “In an emotional crisis no
voice is pleasant,” they said.
J.F.H.” (from London): A geographical puzzle.
Glancing over the “Dictionary of Drama,” by W.
Davenport Adams, came across this item: —“Kyrle
Bellew, actor and dramatic writer, made his profes-
sional debut at Solferino, Australia, as Eglinton
Roseleaf in ‘Turn Him Out.’ ” Where is or was
Solferino? There are still some journalists of the
older time who can remember when “Curly” Bellew
was doing the Melbourne Police Courts for the Even-
ing Herald. His name then was Harold Dominick
Bellew.
Fred Marsh, of West’s, Ltd., tells the story of the
most casual marriage; and as he was the casual
himself, he ought to know. He was “advance” for
Alfred Dampier at the time, and George Buller was
manager. Marsh had arranged to be married on a
Wednesday in Sydney, and on the Monday Buller
fell sick, and his office work was suddenly piled on
to Marsh. In the rush of things on Tuesday he
arranged to do some banking business with Dam-
pier at the hour on Wednesday in which he had ar-
ranged to do some double-banking business with
the parson. Early on Wednesday he remembered
the duplication of appointments, and rang Dampier
up. “Can I get off that appointment this morning?”'
he asked. “What for?” said Dampier. “To get
married,” remarked Marsh. “Can I have an hour?”
“Take the day,” replied Dampier. “An hour will
do,” said Marsh, and it did. He was married,
sent his wife for a drive, or a walk, or something,
gave her a pass for “What Happened to Jones” in
the evening, went back to work, and kept at it till
the show closed. Then he went up to the other
show and collected his bride.
“Miles” his Tip :
Captain Chambers wants a site for the Australian
Naval College, which shall possess these attributes:
1. Easy access to the sea, or some sheet of water
suitable for boating, desirably free from sharks.
2. Fifty or sixty acres of fairly level ground,
suitable for playing fields.
3. Some way from a great city
4. No “tripper” element.
5. A first-class water supply.
6. On the mainland.
7. In close touch with the Federal Capital.
8. Within easv reach of a sanatorium in the hills.
10. An anchorage for a cruiser in the vicinity.
11. A good climate —most important point of all.
Let him, after he has viewed and turned down the
Mona Vale site, proceed due north along the Barren-
joey-road till he reaches the stretch of country which
lies behind “the Hole in the Wall.” The rising
ground to the west offers one of the finest resting-
places for a college in the world. The view of cliff-
line and ocean is matchless. The flats below were
expressly designed by Nature for cricket pitches,
football grounds and golf links. Broken Bay—an
ideal place for boating and swimming, and capable
of floating an entire navy—is within 10 minutes’
walk. The mountain air of Pymble may be reached,
in a third-rate motor-car, in half an hour. The
climate is perfect. Most of the land belongs to the
Crown. Above all, the place has the privacy of a
desert; for the road which bisects it is one of the
few in Australia that don’t lead to any pub.
Says our friend Andy Fisher: —
The revelation is complete. I am almost tempted
to wonder why we were admitted into the very in-
nermost confidences of the Imperial Government.
It may be all right; but it is so like the
talk of the man from Cat Cat (down to have
his teeth done) after his long conversation
with the ingratiating stranger whose ad-
dress is Bourke-street E., and who has a
rich uncle in Fiji, and the cunningest little
trick matchbox you ever saw. It is dis-
graceful, of course, to harbor the sus-
picion that J. Bull is handing Andy a gold
brick; but a confidence man is never more
dangerous than when he shows his hand.
And neither is a diplomat.
Westralia conducted a Liquor Question
Referendum with the Commonwealth Refer-
enda, and a great majority voted State Con-
trol, which is practically State ownership.
The success of the Gwalia Government
hotel probably helped them to the conclu-
sion ; the fact that Parson Worrall and
other Wowsers are against it because, as
Berruther Woggle says, “As well nationalise
the Devil,” will help the Eastern States on
to the same dreadful place.
Another proof that Labor is driving Capi-
tal out of the country and harrying Private
Enterprise into a financial grave! The
N.S.W. income-tax returns show that the
total amount for the year will be £300,000,
derived from incomes over £lOOO a year
earned by personal exertion, and over £2OO
derived from other sources. This is £lOO,OOO
more than when all incomes above £2OO
were taxed. That Sosh tiger becomes more
like a tame cat every day.
The rings and combines, which trod more
or less tenderly on their victims before the
Referenda, are beginning to put on their
hobnail boots. In Westralia the shipping
people have put up their rates; and the
timber combine has done the same. A
while back, when there was an agitation
against the Meat Ring, the cattle kings per-
mitted auction sales of fat stock at Kal-
goorlie. Now there are to be no stock
sales on the goldfields, because the Ring sees
no danger of the Australian Government
coming down on it, and no one outside the
Ring has any cattle to speak of, wherefore
the goldfields will pay just whatever the
Ring pleases to charge.
ON THE PRESS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He came up to the circle door;
The keeper was within.
He loudly knocked—one, two, three, four;
The keeper scowled like sin.
The youth had grass-seed in his hair,
And pants so short, his shins were bare.
“I’m on the press,” the youth confessed.
“They tell me up at Yam,
That to get in I’ve only jest
To whisper who I am,
And give the boss here my address —
And mention I am on the press.”
They pushed him rudely from the door
As he was inarching by.
“What paper are you working for?”
He answered: “Paper? I?
I ain’t a paper bloke; I’m on
The wool-press up at Coolamon.
“ ‘Jest say yer on the press,’ said Keets
(Mick works for Tommy Knox),
‘An’ they will let you pick your seats,
Or take a plush-lined box.’
I’m on the press”—with many swears
They seized and shot him down the stairs.
victoria.
S. SNELL.
ORCHESTRAL NOTES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In Barnstorm’s Orchestra, Bill Snooks
Was second violin ;
His fingers curved like fishing-hooks.
Crotchets his sermons, breves his books ;
He simply soaked them in.
And every night these lovely notes
He did regurgitate,
As sugar-ants, whose slimy coats
Are full as Bay Excursion boats,
Hand honey to their mate.
The Big Drum and the Tympana
Got paid the same as Bill;
He played, ’tis true, in opera,
But for each note Bill played a bar,
And William took it ill.
“Shall this rude boor who hangs the drum
In solemn breves, I say—
Shall he, who does not gaily thrum
A graceful semi-quaver, come
And equal me in pay ?
“For every note he plays, by Jove,
I plav a blessed score;
This rank injustice sure would move
The radiant Israfel above
To feel a trifle sore!
“In one fat semibreve, which he
Beefs from his tom-tom loud,
Lie sixteen quavers ; infamy !
What ho! The Wages Board for me,
And piecework for the crowd.”
VICTORIA.
HASSAN.


sfd
The D. J. Woollen Rug for
Renowned Throughout the Commonwealth for Quality.
21-
THE D.J. Woollen Rug: is justly famed as being the best
to be had for the price. It is an all-wool rug—manu-
factured specially for us in Australia from the best
Australian wool. This season the assortment of designs and
coloi-s is magnificent, and comprises some fine brown checks:
Light Brown Checks reversed with Dark G-reen and Red
and White Checks, and stripe designs in Blue, Green, Red,
Brown, etc. There are also some splendid Tartan Plaids—
Forbes reversed with Gordon, 42nd reversed with McKenzie,
Forbes reversed with 42nd, Gordon reversed with 42nd.
The measurements of the D.J. Woollen Rug are 80in. x 60in.,
and it weighs 51b.
FREE. —Our Travelling Book is gratis and post free. Write for
it without delay, and remember WE PAY CARRIAGE on all
Travelling Requisites to any part of the Commonwealth.
DAVID JONES LTD.
Opp. G.P.0., SYDNEY.
A GENUINE HAIRGROWER.
We have received the following recipe
from a correspondent who has found it to be
of great value. Our correspondent says
that this mixture is a hair tonic, which, if
rubbed briskly into the scalp night and
morning with tne finger tips, will not fail to
promote the growth of hair, to remedy bald-
ness, to restore grey hair to its natural
color, and to destroy dandruff.
Take l dram of Menthol Crystals and put
them into a bottle containing 3oz. of Bay
Rum and see that they are entirely dis-
solved, then add loz. of Lavona de Com-
posee, and, if desired, one teaspoonful of
To-Kalon perfume. Shake well and let it
stand for half an hour, when it will be ready
for use.
Other readers will doubtless be glad to try
this remedy which our correspondent has
sent. We understand that the ingredients
may be obtained from any chemist.
CAUTION. —A s this is doubtless a re-
markable hair grower, it should be applied
only where hair is desired A
Society
PENFOLD'S
WINES
Sometimes it is man wlio invites woman
to push her best nose forward. Thus the
wliolly-male Severn Shire Council (Glen
Innes, N.S.W.) the other day appointed one
of the inquisitive sex to be a sanitary in-
spector.
AN HONEST PRODUCER.
LADY : " Pardon me, but are these eggs fresh
laid?"
GROCER: “ Absolutely, madam! The fanner I
purchased them from won’t allow his hens
to lay them any other way.”
Melbourne has been reading a local Leah
Kleschna story, which didn’t end up in a
cabbage patch like the Tittell Brune melo-
drama did. One James Flood, motor-body
builder, of Melbourne, with an employee, had
the bad grace to remain late at the factory,
thus embarrassing the plans of a burglar.
Suspicious sounds aroused the curiosity of
Flood and his assistant, and investigation
revealed Burglar Bill busy making up the
swag. Here was Flood’s opportunity, and
he seized it. But not on conventional lines.
With every temptation to do so, he didn’t
spring forward, pinion his man, and des-
patch his assistant for the nearest pair of
handcuffs. Instead, Christian Flood stayed
judgment till Burglar Bill had stated bis
case; which he did, tearfully. The peni-
tent thief was practically starving. He had
left at home a wife and five children, like-
wise more or less starving, awaiting father’s
return with bread. As father hadn’t been
able to .get: bread, the Devil had taken a
hand, and put him on to Flood’s factory.
Flood, being probably 'addicted to the
melodrama, took the story on trust, made
the man get into his motor, wheeled him t<>
his (Flood’s) home, gave him a hearty
meal, put up a hamper for the wife and five
children, and then wheeled him off home.
Next day—and this is near the end of the
yarn—he called and got further visual tes-
timony of the truth of bis protege’s story,
left a cheque with the man’s wife, and is
now using his best endeavors to find the de-
feated burglar a steady job.
* * * *
“Lifebuoy” : A woman jumped off a busy
Sydney pier last: week, and a man had to in-
terrupt his work in order to extract her pain-
lessly from the deep. There are a lot of
places about the Ma State’s capital where
one might drown comfortably without at-
tracting attention; but the jumping lady
didn’t go to any of them. How many of the
females who attempt suicide by drowning
really want to carry the business through V
They select a busy wharf, bridge or river
bank, and only make the half-fatal attempt
after roaming about in a manner which is
later on described by the constable as “sus-
picious.” The public attempt seems to be
in the nature of a last challenge to the world
—“Save me if you can with great difficulty,
and thus prove that lam wanted.” I have
heard of a plucky rescuer being badly clawed
by a bundle of dripping garments and a
wrecked hair-pad for not being prompt
enough. “Why, I might have drowned!”
screamed the false-alarm suicide with a
vicious scoop of her hand at the dismayed
hero’s countenance.
“A.W.M.” : Randolph Bed-
ford (B. 25/5’11), writ-
ing about sea-going sky-
scrapers, seems to think
that the only means of coun-
teracting the wind pressure
on the high structure is the
submerged depth of the keel.
The effect of 10,000 tons of
cargo (exclusive ’of ballast
tanks) on the centre of grav-
ity isn’t apparently worth
talking about. Still, as fully
80 per cent, of the weight is
below water-line I’m not
losing any sleep o’ nights.
No doubt there is the Wara-
tah disaster to climb over;
but it has been proved that
the Waratah had a few hun-
dred ton§ of bunker coal
stowed somewhere up around
the flying bridge. Besides,
Bedford admits that the own-
ers in that case went against
the opinions of the architects
and contractors- —which is
evidence, anyhow, that archi-
tects and contractors know how far they can
go, or rather can’t go.
“Jack Jay” : The Maori marriage, which
has been treated with such scant respect by
the Dominion’s Judges, except when they
happen to be in the Native Lands Court, is
a simple ceremony, but just as effective and
binding as if it were performed at St.
George’s, Hanover Square. Young Hen-
are and Mere, having got their parents’ con-
sent, come before the tribe, or as much of it
as is available, and have many flower-
sprinkled words of wisdom thrown at them
for an hour or two by the elders and orators.
Then they depart quietly, and “sleep under
the one blanket” (mat in old times) ; and so
they are man and wife. If the parents don’t
agree, the lovers usually make a bolt for it,
and sleeping under the blanket mostly brings
the old folks to reason. Nowadays, an in-
creasing number of the native marriages are
“solemnised” before the registrar or: some
brand of parson ; and, in view of the trouble
made by the courts, the Maori in general
will soon drop to the necessity for this new
ceremony.
CAUGHT IN HIS OWN TRAP.
HE : “ Only fools are certain .” SHE : “ I’m not so certain about that."
HE : “ Oh, but I an?”
The Hopetoun equestrian statue finds
its best place by St. Kilda-road (Melb.),
in front of Government House entrance.
The Commonwealth’s first Gov.-Gen. fairly
deserved an athletic appearance, for the
poor fellow did strive so hard and pluckily.
The statue, unlike most statues, is really an
ornament. To be sure, its position is not
quite so good as that of Fitzgibbon, who
points to Melbourne from St. Kilda-road,
and says, “Alone I did it.” Other Mel-
bourne statuary is either poor or poorly
placed. When the Queen Victoria effigy was de-
bated in the committee, Dr. Mclnerney said :
“You can take any period of her life you
choose. She was once a good horsewoman.
Put her young, radiant and happy, on a
spirited horse.” But the fogies demanded a
venerable dowdy, though sculptor White did
not give it to them. He had his compromise,
and did all he could to make his figure he-
roic; and there it is, a stalwart 6ft. kind of
woman. Summers’s Burke and Wills had a
noble position on the hill in eastern Collins-
street. To oblige the, trams it was
shunted round the Spring-street corner to
that triangular out-of-the-way place where
Lyster wanted to build an Opera House. At
the entrance to Pitzroy Gardens the genius
of Mackennal has been employed on a statue
to William John Clarke. Who’s he? Al-
ready Melbourne almost forgets. The gen--
eration after next will wonder if it is a me-
morial of Jacky Tommy Smith, Melbourne’s
Whittington, seven times mayor. Archbishop
Goold dumped O’Connell’s statue right in
front of St. Pat’s. “No,” said Carr when he
came, “this is not St. O’Connell’s,” and
shifted the effigy on one side. By way of a
change, the Redmond Barry statue has its
appropriate niche—in front of the Public
Library, and looking towards the University.
He founded both of them.
The Oldest Inhabitant on the Oldest
Wowser: —
The account of the First Wowser given by “Dio-
genes” (B. 8/6/’ll) shows that the old chap’s lan-
tern isn’t burning as well as it might. John Towell,
or Tawell, was not convicted pf a hangable offence.
The English Quakers refused to prosecute on the
capital charge, conditionally on John pleading
guilty to having a forged note, which entailed trans-
portation for life. John did not send for his wife.
He had formed another connection in Sydney. His
wife and family, hearing of his improved position,
were sent out by “benevolent” people. He certainly
did his duty by them when they came. One son was
a doctor, and practised for a time in Sydney. Mrs.
Tawell died in England. Sarah Hart, the nurse, had
two children by Tawell, or they were reputed to be
his. He married a respectable widow, Mrs. Cut-
forth, who knew nothing about Sarah, or professed
that she did not. When John married the widow,
he was well off. The financial disasters of the
early ’4o’s, however, reduced his income, and -keep-
ing up two establishments was expensive; hence his
determination to get rid of Sarah. And he did.
The analysts were puzzled as to what poison was
used, and how it was administered. There was no
evidence of poison in the stomach, but the “symp-
toms” hanged Tawell. To-day no jury would con-
vict. His chief title to be considered a Wowser lies
in his emptying 600 gallons of rum and other spirit
into Sydney Harbor as an evidence of his teetotalism.
Evil-minded people said that there was a very small
quantity of spirit wasted, the rest being water. Anv-
how, Sydney was no more sober afterwards. Tawell,
by the way, caused “strained relations” between
Governor Denison and Premier Cowper. over attach-
ing the Seal of the Colony to some grants which the
Home Government said should go to Mrs. Tawell.
Cowper refused the Seal; but Denison entered the
Executive Council office, secured the Seal, and at-
tached it. “Slippery Charlie” resigned, but a kindly
word brought him back to office.
In 1910 there were 137 divorce cases in
Melbourne. Of the couples concerned 39 had
“no encumbrance,” 54 had one, and 25 had
two; only 20 owned more than a brace. So
it would appear that the unpopular little Aus-
tralian is at any rate of some practical
utility in keeping people out of the fierce
light that beats through the windows' 6f the
divorce court.
“Mr. Ocky” registers a complaint:—
Most Victorians who know anything about thei,
railways are getting tired of the reiteration that Regu-
lation 51 is to be revised by the Commissioners. In
answer to complaints about long hours and short pay
there is always the same old jest that Regulation 51
will be amended. When the statement was first
made the men who put in 12 and 14 hours a day
hoped for something; but now they just give a sickly
grin whenever the ancient joke is perpetrated. Some
day there will be another Sunshine smash, and the
poor, tired wretch who will be responsible for it will
get the sack, and, maybe, gaol. It would be much
better to let him get some sleep. Where I live some
of the railway men scarcely know what home-life
means.
Melbourne’s first census report, contained
in the journal of Batman’s first visit to the
Yarra site, under date June 6, 1835: —
We heard several voices calling after us. On look-
ing back we saw eight men all armed with spears,
etc. When we stopped they threw aside their
weapons and came very friendly up to us. Each
of the principal chiefs has two wives and several
children. In all, the tribe consists of 45.
According to the census of 1911 there are
591,830 people on the same site; and if the
city wasn’t so much like the head-qnd of a
tadpole, this paper might reckon that it was
a pretty fair growth for 76 years.
“Croson” has a Dreadful Afternoon :—-
It was a wet and wintry day, and there would be
little joy in watching the muddied ’oafs, and wher.
I got seated I found things so different. Lindrum
and Reece were playing their billiard match, 16,000
up. There was none of the subdued conversation
of the ordinary billiard-room. The spectators
seemed deadly serious, as though a life hung in the
balance. And it was so restful, so soothing. Every
momeht I expected to hear an organ peal out. Lin-
drum was in the throes of his long break (1239 —
1230 off the red). He stood at the top of the table
bent over his cue, and made his stroke; then ho
paused erect for a moment while the balls travelled
as though in a fixed groove, one to the pocket, the
other up and down the table and back to almost where
it started. Just as regularly the marker called the
score, and with measured step walked to the table,
took out the ball and walked back again. Mesmer-
ised by the mathematical regularity of it all, I was
slipping off into dreamland, when the thoughtless
marker murmured: “Silence, please, gentlemen.”
My neighbor had made a whispered remark to his
friend. The seance proceeded, the only sign of life
about it the rhythmical streak of the white ball, s
click and the marker’s monotonous march. There
was another party to the business somewhere, but,
except that he held a cue in his hand at first, one
could not distinguish him from one of the statuesque
spectators. Presently he put the cue aside and lay
back, blank and inscrutable. The “session” crawled
to an end, and we crept out. The rain-clouds were
past and the streets were bathed in goldep sunlight.
Men and women walked and talked; boys streaked
by, yelling of success or defeat for their foothall
favorites. Color, sound, expression, animation were
over all. Life was everywhere. And I wondered
why men should anticipate the grave, and what thev
see in this monotony of Hades, the Silence of the
Centuries.
THE RUIN OF COW.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The claims of the rural workers, if granted, would
mean ruin to dairying. —Daily Wail.
A hundred happy hours a week
They breathe the scented breath of kine
By Blossom’s brindled shoulder sleek
And Daisy’s silken flanks asliine —
Cows are delightful, on the whole,
And cow-joys fire the cow-man’s soul.
What’s this? A snake in Paradise?
Vague murmurs of a wages board ?
Shall rural labor claim its price,
And split the cow-kings’ mounting hoard ?
Show the wild notion to the door —
’Twere ruin to pay tuppence more!
The rights and wrongs of men in town,
Let statesmen settle, if they will;
Our butter world would tumble down,
And all the frightened milk would spill,
If to our happy cow-yard gates
There came a hint of union rates.
Oh, statesmen, friends of Cash and Cow,
Oh, bulwarks of a people’s right,
Awake! Arise ! Kick up a row !
Blank horror doth our souls affright,
And no man knoweth now the clay
When we may have some cash to pay !
Some cash ! Great Scott! They rant and rave !
Some cash! The sweat of agony
Rolls from our foreheads like a wave.
Must we be crushed eternally ?
Fair wages? Lift yourselves and bawl
Fair play means ruin for us all.
N.S.W.
PAT O'MAOKI.


1
M
11
P
sfdf
WON’T YOU USE
what is good and pure?
Those common soaps that
do as much injury as cleans-
ing are never tolerated where
Sunlight Soap has once j
been tried.
No. 57. GUARANTEED UNDER THE
"PURE FOOD ACT, 1908,”
BY LEVER BROTHERS LIMITED,
SYDNEY, N.S.W. NO. 57.
HUNYADI JANOS is the natural aperient water par
excellence. The average dose is a wineglassful taken be-
fore breakfast. Nature herself has mirigled its chief in-
gredients, sulphate of magnesia and sulphate of soda, in
such ideal proportions that this Water acts promptly
without griping or other discomfort, and may be used for
ny length of time and at any period of life.*
Wild’s Hairdressing Rooms, 30 Upstairs,
Sydney Arcade, George and King Streets, Sydney, is the
proper place Co go if you want the best of attention.
Electric head and face massage done in the latest
American style. Hours of business : 8.30 to 6.30 ; Satur-
t a\ close at 1 o’clock.*
dsfd
The Underwear for NOW!
WE have these Undergarments in a natural-colored wool
mixture—just sufficient cotton in them to lengthen
the wear—and they give perfect comfort and pro-
tection for our Australian Winter!
The seams are fashioned so that they have no rough edges
to irritate the skin—the ends are ribbed to prevent them
unravelling, and each garment is thoroughly preshrunken
so as to secure them against further shrinkage in the wash !
We guarantee them against this, as a matter of fact—but
though we have a standing offer to replace any garment
that should shrink, we are never called on to do so.
Price
each garment.
Undervests or Pants.
Postage 6d. extra, Inter=State 9d.
PEAPES & CO. LTD.,
“ Men’s
Outfitters,
309-311 George Street, SYDNEY.
Mary Gilmore recently made the astound-
ing discovery that, as far as Victoria is con-
cerned, anyhow, handkerchiefs are not al-
lowed, let alone supplied, in gaol. Appar-
ently some circles in Victoria regard a hand-
kerchief as a luxury instead of a common
necessity, of as much importance to the rest
of the community as to the owner himself;
for a handkerchiefless gaol, unless there is an
inside and outside supply of cuspidors, must
be an abomination to paid and unpaid, staff
alike, One object of prison discipline
should be to inculcate habits of personal
cleanliness; and a gaol department which
fosters one of the filthiest of all habits —
that of spitting-—ought to be quarantined
first and polished up with sandsoap after-
wards.
THE IMPRESSIONABLE “ COMP."
THE REPORTER : “ Hello, Reglet, ole boy, you
look cold!”
THE COMP : “ So’d' you be if you’d been setting
up articles on the Polar regions and poems
on the snows of Kosciusko all morning.”
HOPELESS.
BIGGS : " Who is that chap in the light suit?”
WIGGS : “ Oh, he’s an actor.”
BIGGS : " And that chap next to him? ”
WIGGS : “ Oh, he won’t shout either.”
Henry Howard, Christian Democrat and
popular preacher, gave an audience in Ade-
laide Town Hall some straight talk one re-
cent Sunday. Referring to the value of
faith, he took the decayed-fish habit as an
illustration of the opposite quality:—
Who are the men who have made this country of
ours, and are making it to-day? The men who be-
lieve in it! Not the sniffling pessimists who go
round running the place down. Those fellows will
get to their own country some day, and will find it
not so fair as this one.
The crowded audience decided to forget that
it was a congregation, and applauded glee-
fully. Howard, by the way, is the man
who, in publicly welcoming the last Ameri-
can revivalists that visited Adelaide, said
he would do all he could to help them ; but
it had fallen to him to follow up the work
done by the previous Yankee crowd, and two-
thirds of them didn’t stay “converted” over
three months, while a large proportion
could never be traced at all, having appar-
ently repented at the penitents’ bench, and
given a false name and address before leav-
ing it!
Melbourne’s very latest band of moral re-
formers is worth investigating. It calls it-
self the Sisters of the People, and its mission
is to keep sinners apart after nightfall. To
this end the sisters go out about the streets,
and when they see a woman approached by
a man they gently intervene, scold the hussy,
as she deserves, and advise the man to, “go
home to your dear wife, there’s a dear.” So
much came to light in a recent City Court
case. “We do it to save bad girls and men
from sin,” said one sister. “I think that if
a woman can do anything for these men and
women she should follow them about all
night.” Naturally trouble arises through
the difficulty of distinguishing the street
saints from the street sinners ; nevertheless
the former have resolved to cleanse Collins-
street, the biggest charting job the sex lias
undertaken since a notorious old lady at-
tacked the Atlantic with a mop.
After about a year’s trial of the indeter-
minate sentence system, the M.L. prison
authorities are inclined to take an optimis-
tic view. The Dominion scheme embraces
payment of “members,” and, so far, it has
induced the beneficiaries to get work. A
full day’s toil with exemplary conduct
brings in 35.; a fair day is worth 2s. 9d.;
an indifferent day, 2s. Gd. Against that is
debited the cost of the toiler’s keep, which
amounts to 2s. 6d., so that at the outside,
only 6d. a day can be earned, and depend-
ents of the prisoner can go the entire hog
on it. But, as a matter of fact, not a soli-
tary dependent in M.L. has received a cent.
What money has been earned has been ex-
pended in the luxuries of the gaol—postage
stamps, tea, coffee, cocoa, tobacco, cheese,
fish, fruit, newspapers, pipes, butter, jam,
milk, extra lighting, books and any other
privileges sanctioned. However, in order to
obtain these the loafer has been gradually
weaning himself to the work habit, and
when beer is added to the list of necessaries
which may be purchased it is expected
that all hands will be working double shifts.
Life’s little ironies. A seaman on the
Norseman, *a‘ boat which landed 320 canny
Scots in Brisbane recently, fell some 45ft.
down into the hold during the voyage, and
escaped with a bruise or two. Another tar
on the same boat stumbled over a plank—
and broke his neck. For so it was written!
Says the cable :
One hundred thousand children’s drinking mugs,
comprising the King’s Coronation order, are now
ready to be delivered to the Royal representatives.
Says Royalty: “Mugs, Mugs! Let us have
more Mugs!”
A word in the ear of the P.M.G.: —
Many of the smallest Wayback post offices are run
in connection with roadside pubs. There is a postal
regulation that mail-matter is not to be housed in
the same room as the snake-juice, so Bung is obliged
to erect a little caboose some yards from his ver-
andah. Suppose you go along for your mail. You
knock at the door of the little crib, labelled ‘Post
Office.” You wait. Nothing happens. You knock
again, and wait some more. Nothing goes on hap-
pening. You imagine someone will come presently
and attend to you. Silly fellow! That’s not the
way to get your mail i You must present yourself
at the bar in a proper manner. You make your
way through a group of blear-eyed storiy-brokes. It s
not absolutely necessary for you to shout for them.
If you can stand a couple of pounds’ worth of abuse
you need only shout for your self and the publican,
after which you may be able to inveigle him to the
post offiee to give you your letters. I wouldn’t like
to say that you always get your letters or that the
letters you post go by the mail; in fact, I know
careful people who follow the mail-coach a mile past
the mail-pub in order to hand their postal goods to
the mailman.
* * * *
Dr. Abrahams, of Melbourne, is sounding
the Jewish tocsin in alarm for the safety of
the old Scriptural Faith. It is in danger of
being assimilated and obliterated by the
“popular religions” of the Gentiles, says the
sorrowful rabbi. Practically the complaint
is that the Chosen are increasing their
riches at the expense if their dogmas; the
nations that pay them 60 per shent. in-
terest are robbing them of their spiritual
distinctiveness, and the persecution which of
yore stiffened Shylock in his hereditary be-
liefs has been supplanted by an enervating
humanitarianism. Thus genuine Judaism
is getting merged into bogus Chi’istianity,
and the average Lazarus is disposed to re-
concile pawnbroking with pork chops. From
an antiquarian point of view, this is rather
sad ; but it is hard for even a parson of up-
to-date tendencies to deplore the dissolution
of the faith that gave the world Jonah’s
whale, Abednego’s fiery furnace, Elijah’s fly-
ing chariot, and all the other indigestible tit-
bits of Bible history. In a world that has
out-lived its original opinion of the talking
Serpent of Eden, there is little real demand
for the religion of Moses. It has probably
softened the young brains of innumerable
Sunday-school children, and its awfully im-
moral anecdotes have done social purity a
terrible lot of harm, which the Social Purity
Leagues have, quite overlooked.
A union organiser from the mainland was
whipping up an audience in Tasmania.
Said he: “If any of you unionists can tell
me of any men whom you think I could en-
rol, I’ll travel 600 miles, if need be, to secure
them.” Then came the voice from the
back: “Steady, mate; you’ll go over the
side if yer not careful.”
As a result of a collision between the
Orient liner Orontes and a yacht’s dinghy,
whereby the yacht-owner was drowned, the
Tasmanian Court of Marine Inquiry, amongst
other things, found the other day:—
(1) Captain Healey saw the yacht 17 minutes be-
fore the impact, and a proper watch was not kept
on the Orontes to see that the dinghy was all right.
(2) When the collision was possible, prompt pre-
ventive measures were not adopted, the Orontes keep-
ing on her course, with her engines only stopped—-
not reversed.
(3) The Orontes did not return to see if assist-
ance was required.
(4) The log of the Orontes stated that a “boat
was lowered,” though it was admitted in Court that
it did not reach the water.
Then the Court confessed that it had not the
power to deal with the captain’s certificate.
To relieve its feelings, however, it fined him
£5O and costs. Now, how old is Tassy’s law
on the subject?
* * * *
"Melb ” : They have begun to knock down
the buildings on the south side of Collins-
street, opposite the Block, for the new Ar-
cade into Fliuders-lane —a very costly
business. The history of such things in
Melbourne has been curiously erratic. The
first was the Queen’s, between Lonsdale and
Little Bourke streets, which did fairly for
some years with toy shops and the like. Then
came the booming Royal Arcade, between
Bourke and Little Collins streets. That has
always been good property. The Staughtons
owned it, and Howard Spensley, a not-
affluent barrister, having married a Staugh-
ton, got control. Its success spurred on two
failures. The Eastern was tried between
Bourke and Little Collins streets, and the
Victoria at the Bijou Theatre. The fun-
ereal gloom of these warned off all others un-
til Cole managed to bore right through from
Big Bourke to Big Collins. The Eastern,
still feebly alive, is on the site of Coppin’s
Haymarket Theatre. The Victorian is all
drinkery, feeding the Bijou and the Gaiety.
* * * *
“Culex”: Though Melbourne has no un-
sectarian High School, Education Minister
Billson and Director Tate push forward the
Continuation School in the face of much
jealousy from the sectarians. The ostensi-
ble aim is to supply State-school teachers;
but Tate obviously reaches on towards filling
the gap between State School and Univer-
sity. The school, or more properly college,
is carried on in the commodious old Model
School, established as long ago as 5-855 by a
far-seeing Mr. Davitt as a Government exper-
iment towards Nationalisation. Tate was
educated there. So was George Turner, ex-
Premier and Federal Treasurer.
Vic. Education Department is going to
send some travelling teachers into the re-
motest parts of Gippsland. This is sup-
posed to be the result of things that Labor-
ite McLaclilan has whispered assiduously
into the ears of Director Tate. Though Mc-
Lachlan may have various bees buzzing in
his bonnet, he has learned Gippsland as no
other man knows it, pushing to the most iso-
lated homes per hobnail: —he easily holds the
long-distance walking championship of the
House —and the things that he saw and
heard at some of those family huts, cut far
off from civilisation, have made the Educa-
tion Department blush pinker than a Dago’s
stock crayfish.
SPORTING PROSPECTS .
The Collingwood Football Club is going to divide
75 per cent, of the net profits amongst the players.
News Item.
“ So, young wan , I understand you wish to
marry my daughter. What are your
prospects?"
“ Well, sir, they re not much at present; hut
I've had an offer to play half-forward with
Collingwood.”
THE DUST CART OF UTTER REFINEMENT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The new garbage cart is a dream in blue.
—The lilue Mountain Lcno.
The dust cart rolls on its scented wav, and the hat of
the driver gleams ;
lie has epaulettes on his shoulders broad, and braid
on his trouser-seams ;
llis gloves are white as the driven snow, and his
hanky is spotless too,
As ho drives around in a stately way to the bins in
his dream of blue!
Large orders gleam on liis uniform, and some dozens
of medals shine ;
Cn his massive chest they are neatly strung in a
close-packed, jingling line ;
A sword is attached to his golden belt, and his lance
(for dogs these two
Are meant, of course) in a socket sticks, on the side
of the dream of blue.
The garbage tins (they are works of art, and are
scented with new-mown hay)
Await his coming m flower-decked stands, arranged
in a costly way ;
The busted boot and the cabbage remains are wrapped
with exquisite taste—•
You’d never suspect that each bon-bon box was full
of the kitchen waste.
But better than all is the final touch to the dustman’s
glory. He
Is addressed “Sir Elegant Garbage Smith,” and he is
K.C.M.G. ;
He’s always on hand at functions grand and at Gov-
ernors’ balls, you bet;
Because of his rank he is chased to death by the Very
Naicest Set.'
This is a dream of a dust cart blue and a dustman
to match the cart;
Here it is for Australian mayors, and I hope they
will take it to heart;
A chariot blue and a dust-knight, too, I hope very
soon to find
In ev’ry suburb removing bins in a way that is quite
refined
N.S.W.
The Minister for Grace and Elegance.


o t-
(\ cfr
f fir ■ i'jlC'e'z
hj! > nl k f
L j/IHT/lfi 0
/W,
1
}fLLO^-
]) OCI
D'TTo
HAIL AND FAREWELL f
DEATH OF THE DRY DOG.
The real “Dry Dog” is no more!
Dax 11. was a dog of the dachshund persuasion
who long occupied the responsible post of Custos regnl
to the writer of this tearful tribute. Almost from
puppyhood had he kept vigilant watch and ward over
the portals of his master’s domain, and allowed no one
to enter those portals unchallenged. His bark was all
his own : full, round and explosive ; at once a protest
against intrusion upon the sacred domain over which
he was the recognised and accredited sentinel, and a
warning to the dwellers therein whose lives and pro-
perty he held, as ’twere, within the hollow of his
jaws. No respecter of persons was he when the gate-
latch clicked. Parson or policeman, tinker or tax-
gatherer, it was all one ; the alarm must be sounded I
Sex counted for nothing. The tattered shirt-waist of
yon beggar-woman might conceal a heart black with
felonious designs upon the front door-mat. The hobble
skirt of that music Miss might, peradventure, flop
about potentialities for getting away with the family
wash. Sound an alarm I
But his bark was worse than his bite. The latter
he regarded as a court of last resort, and seldom
appealed to the grim arbitrament of the tooth.
His “beat” was rather an extensive one for so
short-legged a sentinel. It extended from one street
to another, and there were three entrances, front and
back, to keep an eye on, not to mention a wall at the
back surmounted by a fence which predatory small
boys made nothing of scaling during the green-apple
season did Cerberus but nod or take an evening off.
And so it will be seen that with all the tradesmen,
pedlars, pilferers, extraneous cats, beggars, bores,
etc., going and coming through those three gates, or
over the back fence, the lynx-eyed Dax had all the
business he could look after, though he often worked
overtime. In spite of such a busy |Ue> he somehow
found time, snatched from his legitimate duties, to sit
as model for the “ Dry Dog,” well known to. The
Bulletin readers, and, it may be added, to all the rest
of the civilised world. Yes, in an inspired moment
of hip beloved master’s he loaned his personality to
aid the latter in the creation of another star in the
DA XU
Okit (Jli lia a ,?t
iff 7
{fcm/jetfidelh
already brilliant galaxy of Bulletin myths, and it may
be that upon this circumstance he may rest his surest
claim to immortality ! So it came about that his
frank, open countenance has for many years past
looked out upon the smiling faces of valued subscribers
from a thousand cartoons, and has shared the plaudits
which have greeted Australia’s popular, but erratic;
statesman in his many public appearances. He, no
doubt, has Deen taken just as seriously as the eye
glass and drawling pronouncements of the man him-
self. how much our popular High Commissioner may
owe his reputation, nay, his present exalted position,
to the vogue of the Dry Dog, and so in an indirect way
to Dax 11. who posed as a model for him, will, per-
haps, never be known.
In appearance Dax was short in stature when
standing upon all fours, lie had what motorists, I
believe, call very little “ body-clearance,” so that
objects projecting slightly above the earth’s surface,
such as roots of trees, bits of road-metal or other
irregularities, had to be walked round instead of
stepped over. But what he lacked in latitude he made
up in longitude and pedigree. No cur of low degree
was the subject of this memoir. He might, if he liked,
have traced his lineage back to the days when badger-
drawing was the sport of the Hohenzollerns, and
when short-legged dogs or hunds were bred by
German barons for the specific purpose of “drawing”
badgers out of empty beer-casks or holes in the
ground for the delectation of the royal houses of Lie-
berwurst and Sauerkraut. Dachs, by-the-bye, is
German for badger. A hund, of course, is a dog. Hence
dachshund. In spite of his rightful claims to pedigree,
however, Dax was a democrat in principle, accentuated
by long association with his master. He placed no
valu: upon lineage, and never discussed “ blood ”
witty anyone—not even with the family butcher.
He hated display of any kind, and especially detested
that artificial kind of loyalty or patriotism which mani-
fested itself in crackers, “ hungers” and other explo-
sive forms of public rejoicing. On such occasions only
would he desert his post of watch, and crawl under a
bed, to emerge when loyalty had burnt itself out.
His complexion was sallow, his countenance was
long, and, like most humorists, he wore an expression of
settled melancholy. This was all on the surface, how-
ever, for no dog ever relished a joke more than he, and
his “ smile,” whenever Geo. Reid and the ” Dry Dog ”
were mentioned in his presence was comprehensive and
infectious.
•' No further seek his merits to disclose
Or draw his frailties from their dread abode.”
The Myth of the “ Dry Dog” still lives. But his
prototype, the embodiment, the once living-essence
thereof: What of him ? The apple tree at the bottom
of the garden, the fruit of which he made his peculiar
care during his life, next Spring will shed its blossoms
like a sweet incense of gratitude and remembrance
upon the grave of the silent sentinel who was laid to
rest but the otner day beneath its shade. Tread lightly,
incautious small boy 1 Even the wraith of an honest
watch-dog may have its terrors for the purloiner of
immature apples, more potent than the effects of the
green fruit itself.
‘ " HOP
sfd
m/
111
Cj,i? pif'P
l I whs
p\
t
UNj)fR-
STi/P'f
f{ «i ,V ■
J) y f> n tt)o 9 of lj)\ bdtToy
& i" !)<* , j <?t£ffe e. .)
-
Vr)
ffiV*
F# * Oup, .
fil fcDll a^
IN MEMORIAM. GRIEF OF "THE BULLETIN” MYTHS.


Lewis & Whitty’s Harness Dressing;
(BLACK OR TAN)
Gives a brilliant finish, preserves and nourishes Bugay
or Motor Hoods, Harness, Leggings and all Leather Goods.
LEWIS & WHITTY,
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
McKENZIE’S EXCELSIOR BAKING POWDER.
DAINTY EARRINGS.
OUR STOCK IS REPLETE WITH.
HOW ?
Our very live London buyer sends to us each week the
very last word in designs, and indicates the most
fashionable jewels.
Then he sends us the unset jewels, bought in large
quantities for spot cash, and they come into the
State without any duty charges whatever.
We then make the earrings up on the premises, and so
save all along the line.
RESULT—
We do the latest and (best only) earrings at prices as low
as in London.
Ail Diamonds,
£l2/10/=
Diamonds and
Peridots, £l2/10/-
Diamonds and
Pearls, £l5/15/-
Flaln Figures
Cash.
FAIRFAX 8 ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 8 25 Hunter Street.
ABORIGIN
ALITIES
“Tiaki”: “Hamer” (B. 27/4/11), writing
anent the half-caste resuming the hue of his Hawai-
kiian forefather, takes it for granted that the half-
caste fears reversion to the darker shade. Rot!
Most of them don’t worry their brains a bit about it.
My observations teach trie that they throw to the
most prolific race, which happens to be the pakeha
at present. According to “Hamer’s” theory the con-
stant fear of a murky infant produces the very
effect desired to be avoided. If this is true, then,
as each succeeding generation of half-castes marry,
they become gradually blacker. AVho knows but that
bruiser Johnson may be the product of a cream-faced
quadroon of a few decades ago? The “kiratea,” or
pale skin, is not a sign of chieftainship. For in-
stance, the Urewcras are all as black as Satan’s
cellar. The “urukehu,” or red-haired Maori, is sup-
posed to be a reversion to the type of people who
inhabited these islands at the time of the Maori
migration, and who were either married or mur-
dered at the will of the invader. It was a case of
meat or matrimony in the good old days. And
where does the “korakorako” or albino come in?
Does there linger in the brain-cells of the mother a
dormant dread of some white barbarian whose
descendants are now making guns at Krupp’s gun-
smithy ?
WHERE COPERS WERE PLENTIFUL.
MENDICANT (with a vein of humor): “ Could
you spare a poor man a copper , doss?”
Condamine”: The adder seems to be
shunned in the Abo. page just as religiously as in the
brigalow and kindred scrubs of N.S.W. and Queens-
land, where he is the dread of all new settlers.
Usually he lies coiled up under the leaves during the
day, moving about mostly after dark, probably to
avoid his enemy, the iguana. Unlike the snake, the
adder never gets out of the way, but waits to be
walked on; moreover, he is less readily seen, being
practically the same color as the bark of the scrubs
he infests. All bush workers in adder country wear
leggings, and it is owing to this fact that, deadly
and all as he is, a death from adder-bite is rarely
beard of. The fangs will not penetrate even thin
leather, and I find from repeated experiments
that the arithmetical reptile scarcely ever bites
above the height of (say) a man’s instep. Imme-
diately the beast becomes aware of a hostile pre-
sence, it hides its head under its middle; but touch
it with a stick, and it flashes at the object im-
mediately, leaving two small drops of venom, and
instantly hiding its head again. After repeated teas-
ings it will hold on to the stick like a dog. Condy’s
crystals are believed to be of service as an antidote,
and, with a hypodermic syringe and strychnine anti-
dote, are to be found in every settler’s camp.
From George Blakemore, who is learning
America: —
Billjim, of Wayout, and other confirmed Aboliars,
may care to know a few things about how the sheep
is robbed of his winter coat in these parts.
Shearing starts in Arizona some time in February.
It takes two to three months to finish. At this date
(April) there are 200,000 sheep unshorn in Arizona.
The barbering follows from Arizona to Wyoming,
then to Utah and Nevada, on to Montana and Idaho,
and finishes in North California. The work is under-
taken by contractors with movable plants of machine-
shears, "who get 14 cents (7d.) per sheep shorn.
Of this' sum the shearer gets eight cents (4d.).
The day’s work is nine hours, not including time for
meals. I felt good to hear that the Australian is
considered the best man at the job in the world.
Hand-shearing is paid eight cents per head, same as
machine-shearing. Good machine-shearers are scarce,
and the work generally is rough, Tar is not used
on cuts, as .a rule, so that a flock of machine-shorn
sheep (or “band” as they call them here) are a gory
looking spectacle in many camps.
In the warm parts of the country there are no
shearing-sheds, shearers’ quarters, or any of the con-
veniences. The shearing camp is pitched alongside
some yards, and a bag house erected to cover the
shafting which transmits the power to the shears.
The shearer stands on the sandy ground, and shears
the sheep there. The wool is packed in chaff bags
by hand, and sent off to people who make a business
of sorting and baling fleeces.
Few of the Western sheep runs or ranges , have
fences. The sheep are mostly herded in flocks of
2000 to 2500. Each flock has two “herders,” who
live in tents and move with the sheep. Each set of
four flocks has a travelling foreman. A herder gets
about £7 ss. lOd. per month and keep; foremen, or
caporals, from £9 to £lO a month and keep.
I got from a shearing cohtractor named 0. E.
Larson, of Will aha, the statement that in a day’s
work with machine-shears, one J. J. Hill, of Beardsley,
Arizona, shore 345 sheep. Of course, I said that
was pretty good for a spin before breakfast; but
could J. .1. Hill keep going at that rate all day?
Cost of living can be put down at about 50 per
cent, more than in Australia, so the rates of pay
quoted above are, after all, not good enough to at-
tract the Australian away from God’s own country.
—and mine.
* .* * *
Dear Bulletin, —In order to remove some
misconceptions, and enlighten some ignorance in
financial circles at ’Ome, I will accept the hospi-
tality of your valuable columns for the purpose of
faithfully describing an Australian town in the jungle
that lies beneath the shadow of the unexplored Nul-
lawang Mountains. The time was evening; the sun
was humping its bloodrred swag over the horizon to
camp for the night; and all was peace, except for
the bellow of the death-adder pasturing on the flower- •
ing bunyip. The kangaroo had betaken himself to a
tree to await the coming of his prey, and the bandi-
coot sang his eyening song on the homeward wing.
Near the large seven-storied hotel, in the deep,
slowly-moving river, alligators and crocodiles dis-
ported themselves, while the children of the district
fed them from the large piles of empty bottles
stacked for the purpose along the banks. As the
evening closed in, the bush sounds died away, until
nothing broke the stillness but the crunching of the
alligators as they ground their glass tit-bits to dust
with their formidable teeth, or, the whip-the-cat of
tl}e remittance bird over its empty bellybong. All
nature was at its best. But, presently, darkness
descended even in that inaccessible spot. The
children were hurriedly sent to bed in order to be
up ere the kookaburra greeted the mayor; the hum
of the sundowmer swelled on the night breeze; the
kangaroo crouched for his deadly spring; and the
panni-cann prowled abroad seeking what it might
devour. As I write these few lines, the harmless
remittance-bird is running the rabbit up and down
the hotel stairs and 10 wild bushmen are swinging
the axe in the bar. And, strange as it may appear,
the gentle publican is encouraging them. Such is
the hospitality of the bush.*—Yours hopfully, Blue
Blazes.
* * # *
“Malik” (from Fiji) : Re the offspring
of Eurasians reverting to the original color. I knew
tvvo sons of a half-caste mother and English father,
one of whom is so white in face
and feature as to utterly conceal
all traces of his descent, while
the other brother is scarcely dis-
, tinguishable from a full-blooded
black. Strange to say, the former
has white instincts, while the lat-
ter “lives black,” although this
is probably the result of environ-
ment. “W.C.E.” is straying from
the point when he introduces the
fable of the mare that was first
mated with a donkey, and later
foaled an animal which resembled
a mule, although its sire was a
horse. The two cases are not
analogous. The latter instance
brings in what is known to veter-
inary scientists as the “satura-
tion theory,” though the leading
German authorities unite in abso-
lutely denying the possibility of
such an occurrence as “W.C.E.”
quotes. It is a common idea
among the unscientific that such
a thing as a “throw-back” can
occur, and cases crop up which
would seem to make the theory
plausible. I know of one case
personally where a mare, after foaling a fine
mule, was put to a stallion, and then gave birth
to a malformed colt, which was never reared, both
dam and foal dying soon after the event. Such a
case was wrongly claimed to support the “satura-
tion theory,” whereas, in reality, post-mortem ex-
amination by an expert revealed the fact that it was
a physical impossibility for the mare to have thrown
a second healthy foal to either a jack or a stallion.
“Gil G.”: That small bank of islands,
known as the Capricorn Group, which lies off the
Queensland coast, opposite Gladstone, should be
declared a close ground and a sanctuary. It is
one great natural aviary. I never saw anything
else like the collection—noddy terns, mollyhawks,
sooty petrels, red terns, gulls, frigate birds and
many more. The low scrub forms an ideal breed-
ing-ground, and millions of young ones must be
hatched there annually. The noddy terns are very
friendly, and you can approach the nests without
causing any undue commotion, though there is
trouble if any familiarity is attempted. They form
congregations; some of the undersized trees con-
tain as many as 50 and 60 nests, all crowded to-
gether. The sooty petrels may be the so-called
storm birds of a recent Abo. par., as they become
very excited and create a deafening din when a
storm is working up. The census-paper of this re-
markable group of islands is rounded off with
purple rock-oysters and turtles.
A MATTER OF EXPERT OPINION.
REVEREND PERSON (indignantly): “ Never before have I heard a boy of your son's age
swear so disgracefully."
MRS. BULLOCK (also indignant): “ Who are you to be critusizin' MY boy? His dad
thinks he's get tin' on first rate."
The Crown and Half-Crown Heads heap
comment on the Czar’s letter (B. 11/5/T1) :—•
I der letter of mine frendt und broder Russia
liaf read. I also to der perpetual und painful pueifel
of dis Jimmie-Willie-Pannikin-Cann Austerlitzer ob-
ject. When I your country some day a visit pay
mit ein few oi : mine Zeppelins und warfabricken
ships, I this verdomtskiczerteufel in der earhole mit
mine Mailed Fist will smite. Ach —-so. William
der Secund to None.
Brava, brava, Nicka de Russ! You giva dat
Jimmie de-Willie-Pan-Cann dc all-right smack dat
time. He writa, writa, writa de par. as long as de
spaghetti string all ’bout how he speaka himself, till
1 getta de tire. I wisha de Jim Gann would hitah
de Will Pan on de head witta de meat-axe an’
drowna himself in de Maundering Manning. Corpo
di Baccho Santa Vendetta allegro maliditto yes-ah.
Vicky de Dag.
El Senor Don Soy Majestico El Czar has spoken
bueno. El senor Cann-’e-pan-out truly is a nuisance
of the worst. Carramba, he can be no true hidalgo
to so drag his personal remarks about himself before
los excellentissimos readeros. He knows, or speaks,
much of cows. Permit it senor that he wander a
little outside his potato patch and visit me and I
will grant him the pride of place in the centre of
the Plaza des Toros that he may talk with our Anda-
lusian bulls. Alf the Onion d’Espagne.
Really old chap, pal Nicky is right, don’tcher-
know. AVe’re gettin’ awf’ly fed up with this Tinny-
Pan or Pinny-Can fellow. Dashed awful bore, y’
know. Can’t stand a bounder who keeps talkin’ to
himself and answerin’ himself back too. ’Pon mv
word, dear boy, I wouldn’t like to come back to
your awf’ly bally jolly country if I thought I’d
meet him. He’s really not sportin’—what 1 George.
Why don’t he get a girl, the gaby. Wouldn’t have
time for writing anything else, ■'hen. — Miguel
THE MIZZUELER.
“Eryander” : That North Queensland boy
who died from the sting of a jelly-fish (B. 25/5’ll),
probably fell a victim to one of the poisonous Lis-
comedusw, the offensive capabilities of which range
from nettle-sting to murder. The more dangerous
species are rare in Australian waters, but common
in Malaysia. Many Malays will boldly enter shark-
infested waters, armed only with a knife, but they
won’t chance it where the dreaded nyang is likely to
be on hand. I have seen a man dragged from contact
with one of these huge jelly-fish, in a state much like
that which follows narcotic poisoning. He survived
only half an hour, though medical assistance was at
hand. “Can’t place the thing at all,” said the
doctor —an old tropical hand —“though this is the
fifth fatal case I have seen. The action is almost cer-
tainly upon the nervous system, but what causes the
narcoma I can’t imagine.” The giant sea-anemone
of Moluccan waters is also very dangerous. Some of
these big flower-animals are over 2ft. across, and I’ve
seen a fairly large fish almost instantly killed by
contact with the internal filaments. The action isn’t
electric —at least I never found any electrical fixings
in the subjects I dissected; though, when I experi-
mented with smaller specimens, the pricking in my
hand and arm was exactly like that caused by an
electric current.
* * * *
“Boswell”: The ostrich is not the only
bird that destroys its eggs when it detects the de-
filement of the human hand upon them. The willie-
wagtail has the same objection, and when he whiffs
the scent of man on the fruits of the marriage tie,
he promptly flies off the handle and demolishes them
with less compunction than a State Fright demol-
ishes the fruits of Federation.
“Wang” introduces Billjim, artist: —
The average towny’s idea that Billjim has about
as much artistic temperament as,a buck goat, is only
another instance of the a.t.’s ignorance, as he
would admit if he could spend ' some of the long
winter evenings Away Out with Williamjames,
and observe the wondrous bits of fancy-work evolved
by that worthy from crude material. A great
carver of bones is Billjim, and many, a time I have
looked enviously at a scarf-ring cut out of a sheep’s
shin-bone with a common pocket knife, or a novel
picture-frame made from the bleached backbones
of bunny. Not so common is the necklace made
from snake vertebrae, but I have seen more than
one bush girl’s sunburnt neck look the prettier for
the ornament. In one Outback home I once came
across a model of the Leaning Tower of Pisa, made
by the artist of the family from the bones of rep-
tiles he had killed in the vicinity. It was a good
model, too. Perhaps the most popular line apart
from picture and photo, frames is the walking-
stick, and if you come across one with a repre-
sentation of a ‘ snake twined round it, you can lay
a shade of odds that Billjim carved it.
A PHANTOM WAGE.
“ Hello, Bruiser! You workin' longa that
Billy Cavanow now? Good wages, eh?”
BRUISER: "My word! That Billy Cavanow
he the man that pay the good wages-only
you never git 'em."
“Jack Kay”: Re “Drayman” on the
humor of Binghi (B. 18/5/T1). Fred White, on
his overland cycle ride, struck a tribe of Black
Brother. He saluted one of them thuswise: “Hullao,
Jimmy; where you working?” “I give up work. I
wild nigger now,” was the reply.
DAWGS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Dear Bulleteen, —Your paper is my comfort and
delight,
! read it in the Barber’s shop, and in my Bunk at
night;
But in them funny Pictures what you draw from
day to day,
There’s three familiar faces which have vanished far
away.
(1) Reid's Dry Dawg; (2) The Yalter Pwp;
and (3) George Pile’s Dawg.
1 understand that Same-Old-George has travelled
oversea,
And dawgs are not admitted in the Banquet halls
where he
Eats mightily and goes to Sleep just as he used to
do;
So Reid’s Dry Dog is off the earth; but where’s
the other two ?
(1) The Yalter Pup; and (2) George Pile’s
Da eg.
I’ve likewise heard a whisper that the last Election
gave
The Yaller Pup a horrid kick which helped, it to
the grave:
Which being so, I would not wish its Body to ex-
hume,
But what about the other Dawg that lit a nation’s
Gloom ?
(1) George Pile’s Dawg.
Your Paper ain’t the Paper what my Memories recall
(I’ve heard that in the Paper line, that’s true about
them all),
For vainly through its pages T to 44 I go,
In hope to find them cherished Pets your artists
used to know.
(1) George Pile’s Dawg; (2) The Yaller Pup;
and (S) Reid’s Dry Dawg.
VICTORIA.
P.


A.N.A, Secretary writes:
“ It is astonishing how little
we know of our own in=
dustries. I shail always use
CALDWELL’S INKS in future.”
About 2000 years ago Hero devised a steam en-
gine. Inefficient, certainly; but still the germ of a
practicable machine. His idea, however, lay dor-
mant through ages. Why did not his followers de-
velop it? The most reasonable hypothesis is that
they foresaw no reward. We dwell in a progressive
age and modern inventors can guard inventions by
“Patents.” Whether the utilization of steam, gas,
oil, electricity, those almost untouched forces wind
and waves, or the humbler domestic problems,
Phillips Ormonde, 266 Flinders St., Elevator assist.*
sfd
Carters
•ITTLE
IVER
PILLS.
The Wretchedness
of Constipation
Can quickly be overcome by
CAKTER’S LITTLE LIVER PILLS.
Purely vegetable act surely and
gently on the liver. Cure Biliousness,
Headache, Dizziness, and Indigestion,
They do their duty.
Small Pill, Small Dose, Small Price.
GENUINE must bear Signature
FUSION COCOA
“ A Delicious Beverage of much greater
nutritive value than ordinary Cocoa.”
—British Medical Journal.
PLASiYION IS USED BY THE ROYAL FAMILY.
Australian Depot: 5 & 7 Barrack St., Sydney.
The Royal Hotel,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Most centrally situate,d Hotel in Sydney.
Best place to lunch and dine in town.
J. W. COCKBAINE, Proprietor.
“Geofred”: About this color-reversion
business. Years ago I knew a family of Mahomets
living near Sydney. One of the males, an extremely
dark, full-blooded Assyrian, married a white Aus-
tralian girl. Result, three girls and one boy. The
boy and two girls were dark; the other girl (and,
strange to say, the first-born child) was a good-
looking blonde. Just 25 years ago, that girl mar-
ried a white male, and their one child, a girl,
showed absolutely no trace of the Abdullah blood.
The girl in her turn also married a white man, and
I met her recently with her 18-months-old child. It
was darker than its great grandfather, the full-
blcoded son of old Assyria.
“G.L.C.”: “Blackboy” (B. 4/5/T1) is
right from A to Z —or, anyway, to Y—about the
brumbies of V .A. 1 have spent many years along
the Great Southern line, and know the little bit of
four-legged whipcord well. The country he inhabits
is sandy, and grows very poor grass, but it abounds
with the blackboy, saltbush, and the deadly York-
road poison. The brumbies thrive on the two first-
named plants, but instinct keeps them clear of the
poison bush. “Blackboy” over-estimates their pre-
sent market value, though not their worth, when he
says they fetch anything up to 20s. apiece. I have
seen some of the finest specimens, which were cer-
tainly worth three times the amount, bought and
sold for £lO. Have ridden them for miles and
miles, and never saw one the worse for wear. They
invariably come up smiling the next day, although
the W.A. country isn’t a billiard table by any
means. I reckon those brumbies ought to be pro-
tected by the Commonwealth Government. They have
everything that makes for the perfect war-horse —
they are small, swift, sure-footed and full of stamina
—and I can sniff war somewhere in the distance.
* * * *
“Bro ”: The boss of our place (at least,
that’s Ins version of it) was making his usual round
the other night to secure the lowl-house against four-
legged bird-l'anciers, when he rushed into the kitchen,
grabbed a candle and a pot-stick and disappeared
again. I followed him, and found him preparing to
slay the biggest snake 1 ever saw. It was about
7ft. long, and extended along the trunk and branch
of a young wattle-tree. 1 was just saying, “This is
no place for me,” when the boss suddenly dropped
his wadd.v and laughed. “Caterpillars,” he said;
and so they were—a team of thousands so closely
hitched together that they mightily resembled some
new kind of serpent.
* * * *
“Yarraman”: When Ifi Y. L. Brown, Gov-
ernment Geologist, visited Anson Bay (N.T.) some
time ago, he blew into a conversation anent kan-
garoo and wallaby flesh, and declared that not even
a healthy blackfellow would eat it. Subsequently
he was entertained at dinner by one of the ladies
at Anson Bay, and the menu consisted of roasted
and stuffed venison. He passed his plate for more
than one helping, and, at tea time, preferred the
cold, venison to any other food. Not until three
days later, when well away from Anson Bay, did
the Government Geologist learn that that delicious
venison was kangaroo under false pretences.
* * -* *
“Jack Jay”: Speaking only for the
Maoriland bush, I reckon the easiest bird or beast to
pal up with is the weka —-the fellow that has no
wings and about the same amount of tail. He has
the insinuating manners of a shopwalker, and with
every step bows to right and left. 1 admit he is a
toady, but few men really hate their own toadies;
and when you find that a few crumbs will soon make
him comparatively tame, you accept his wheedling
with complacency. What’s yours is his, and that’s
the only condition that hedges his friendliness.
Boxes of matches, bits of tobacco, anything bright,
and especially soap, will go like magic if you don’t
keep them out of his way. Soap is his besetting sin,
and I’m satisfied he looks upon it as some of us
look on beer. I’ve never caught him under the in-
fluence yet, and I’ve come to the conclusion that,
like the washerwoman, he takes his dope to bed.
NOT SO PAN
TICULAN.
MR. BUNG: " ’Ere, take this tin-urn back; it
ain't got a 'ead on it."
CUSTOMER : “ Neither 'as your beer, for that
matter. But I ain't growlin’!”
“Alba Stralia”: The average bushman or
swaggie does not care a hang about snakes in the
daytime. It is at night, when dossing on the
ground, or in any old shelter in snake-infested coun-
try, that he develops: nerves. A simple scheme to
insure peace apd safety is to build a young sheep-
brake of anything white round the dossing selection;
• and four barked saplings, or a length of inch-wide
calico, laid on the ground, is as handy as anything.
Snakes will travel under, but they won’t worm them-
selves over, any bright-white object.
A COMPROMISE.
BEGGING BENJAMIN (who has refused to chop some wood
in return for a square meal): “ No,
missus, I can't chop no wood, and
I can't fetch no coal; hut if
you've got a gas stove I'll
turn it on for you."
“Snakebite”: It is not a mere superstition
that sharks won’t attack and eat blacks. Was help-
ing to survey Fiji in 1880, and had Solomon
Islanders with me, when, in crossing from the main-
land to one of the smaller islands, a squall tipped
our boat over. I was the only white man over-
board, and for eight hours we were in the water
trying to right the boat, which we did at last on a
coral reef. During that time there were dozens of
sharks swimming round us in a circle, and it was a
pretty uncomfortable time for me. The blacks had
no fear whatever for themselves, but they knew I
was in danger and kept frightening the sharks away
by beating their hollowed hands on the water. All
the time I worked in the tropics I never heard of
one instance of a shark molesting a black boy.
* * * *
“Cellu Loid”: I want to tell “J.C.C.”
something that apparently he does not know about
the Solomons. To start with, the Malaita
marriage and caste laws to prevent inter-
breeding are perfect, and death is the
punishment for man or woman who
breaks them. There must; be no inter-
mingling of blood for at least five genera-
tions. That is why Mala (that’s the cor-
rect word) swarms with population to-
day. Even maternal love is a secondary
consideration, and children, in most cases,
are early exchanged into tribes or villages
where they may afterwards marry.
“J.C.C.” says that the only thing re-
quired by a young native when he wants
a girl is the necessary dollars. That
suggests that “J.C.C.” got his informa-
tion from the steward of the excursion
boat. Long before the dollars are forth-
coming, the old men • have to decide
whether the marriage is possible under
tribal law. And there is no outlet for
the violator of the blood law; the offence
is never forgotten. In the old days, when
the Queensland labor ships haunted the
coast, escape was possible; but, no mat-
ter how long the escapee was away,
Death called upon him bright and early
when he returned. As for cannibalism
on Mala and San Christoval, it is much
of a muchness; there are no fine points
of etiquette about it in either place, and
men, women and children are eaten re-
gardless of circumstances. I knew of
three men who, having a prisoner, de-
cided to eat him. The trouble was they
had to scoff him all at once or lose a
good lot of him; so they made him hang
out as long as they could by cutting off
a limb as required and binding cane where the ampu-
tation had taken place. All the tribes are not can-
nibals, but those that are make up for the backward-
ness of the others.
* * * *
“Snakebite” : It’s a curious fact that there
are no rabbits in South Gippsland, though there are
in that district some of the best grass-lands in
Victoria, and many miles of unoccupied country.
There are a few round Dandenong, but that seems
about the farthest south they have got. Around
Flinders, on the other side of Westernport Bay.
they abound ; on this, the east side, from San Remo,
back through the well-grassed Bass Valley, there is
no sign of them, and I don’t think they have ever
been there. Why, I dunno.
“Wang” describes the genus Aboliar
To me, judging by what the Aboliar knows and
doesn’t know and his general style, he wears mole-
skin pants, a dungareee jumper, a battered clay-
covered fe.lt hat with a string of corks round it, a
battler’s pipe in his face,*ab old tattered shirt open
at the throat, bowyangs, old, heavy and rusty boots.
He carries a swag, nosebag and billycan; gets
drunk ; has three or four fights ; calls everybody . a
blanlty liar or a similar kind of cow; contradicts
everybody in the room when he is sobered up a bit;
and carries a live snake or a baby gohanna in his
pocket. That’s the popular idea of him, anyhow.
“Condot”: I am acquainted with the al-
leged 480 ft. eucalyptus alluded to in Prof. Semon’s
hook as growing in the Dandenong Mountains, and all
I have to say of it is that it has been destroyed since,
and that I question Semon’s measurement. Many giants
have been measured unofficially, and mostly un-
scientifically. Baron von Mueller has a note on a
eucalyptus amygdalina 471 ft. high, which grew at
the foot of Mount Baw Baw, and also mentioned one
at Fernshaw of over 400 ft. These measurements
were challenged, and the Baron was considerably re-
duced. One F. A. Pouchet, a Frenchman, wrote a
book with the modest title of “The Universe,” in
which he quoted, on the authority of a Berwick
(Vic.) resident, a euealypt estimated at 500 ft. '.
It is very questionable whether any Victorian tree
has ever attained 400 ft. As a matter of fact,
there is official evidence of a negative character. In
1889, at the close of the Centennial Exhibition in
Melbourne, the Exhibition Commissioners advertised
a reward of £lOO to the discoverer of any tree in
Victoria over 400 ft. high. Hundreds of claims
were sent in, and the formidable task of measuring
the trees was undertaken; but none reached 400 ft.
Indeed, the highest was under 350 ft.
* * * *
“Dynong”: For “Jeroi’s” information I
introduce myself as the man who tried scrub box,
both white and Coolibah varieties, for fencing pur-
poses, using the timber in its round state, from four
to ten inches in thickness. I am sorry now. After
a few years all the auger holes become full of dirt,
and the wire rots in every post. This happens
more quickly if there is a pipe in the post, and in
this part of the west of N.S.W. (Quambone) it is
a rare thing to get a young box sapling without a
pipe. I know any amount of fences round here that
have not been put up more than 10 years, and you.
can break a wire in any of them by s.mply taking
hold of it and giving a steady pull outwards. Box
posts, if split out of big trees, though, are as near
everlasting as anything in the fencing line except
yarran or pine.
* * * *
“Te Babarantiko,” from a dot in the Dis-
tance:—
On some of the Central Pacific Islands I have
seen and heard a bird which is, perhaps, related to
“Clancy’s” storm-bird of Queensland (B. 30/3/’ll).
Frequently my attention was attracted by a
sharp, long-drawn-out, melancholy, whistling screech
from the bush in front of my house before I in any
way connected it with the weather. Cross-examined
some natives about it, who declared that the bird,
te tera beni, invariably foretold rain and bad
weather. I watched. The bird’s cry always sounded
before rain, and was loudest before a gale of wind
with rain. When the bad weather had begun the
bird kept silent. On occasions I have heard the
alarm sounded when no rain followed, but they were
very rare. The bird is extremely shy, or I am ex-
tremely clumsy, for in all my attempts to get a
glimpse of him I succeeded but once, and then for
a moment only. He is a sooty black, about the size
of a rook, but of slenderer build, and with a longer
tail. The latter ornamental rudder somewhat re-
sembles a magpie’s.
* * * *
“O’Neill” : After many years spent
amongst the Maoris 1 can settle the argument as to
whether Henare is a bad worker. I say he is a
good worker, and equal to the average pakelia as a
bushman, shearer, grass-seeder, timber-cutter, and a
few other things. I admit he is not a “sticker,” but
that is mostly because there is no need for it in his
case. A good “run” at shearing will provide him
with enough money to last six months; a bush con-
tract will put him through the winter, and give him
money enough to keep him idle for another month
or two. Or, if the contract pans out well, he can
live in idleness till shearing time comes round again.
In the district where I am at present the Maoris
do most of the fencing, post-splitting, etc. They
also do a lot of road work, many with teams of their
own, and they make a good living.
THE QUALMS OF CONSCIENCE.
LADY (who has given tramp a plate of scraps):
“ You must feel the humiliation of begging-
for food."
TRAMP: “ It’s not. that so much , mum. What
hurts me is that I'm depriving the pore
innercent fozvls of a feed. ”
THE MINER’S STORY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The miner sat beside the shaft
At dinner-time and smoked;
He was a man who seldom: laughed,
And hardly ever joked— '
So when we asked him why his old
Bald head was battered so,
A plain unvarnished tale he told
Of thirty years ago:
“Me mate was pitchin’ to a friend
Above—a bit of skirt —■
When 1 sung out to him to send
The bucket for the dirt;
But Jim, through bein’ fairly shook
Upon the girl on top,
An’ never lookin’, missed the ’ook,
And let the oil drum drop.
“I ’eerd a whiz, and like a shot
I finds me ’ed had gone
Right through the bottom, and I’d got
. A hancient ’elmet on;
But in a jiff, me ’ed-piece growed
To twice the size erbout,
So when they got me up, I’m blowed
If they could get me out.”
The miner paused, and someone said,
Who thought the story tall:
“And did they get it off your head,
That oil-drum, after all ?”
“In time they did,” said wrathful Bill,
Embittered by this scoff.
“They soaked me in some acid till
The darned thing rusted off.”
N.S.W.
HY. E. HORNE.


V PEOPLING THE LAND.
MR. MEAD SPEAKS OUT.
“And there are a few who appear to be
doing nothing at all. Some of them seem to
be pottering round in their slippers, and
there does not seem to have been a lick of
work done on their blocks.
. That is not going to do at all. These
are the people, from what I hear, who com-
plain most, and are looking most to the State
to do things for them.
-\ -
We If aye.
*f>o-tt ermi. It" 'S
of iKM^Ton
"There are some who, satisfied with the
feed now on the ground, are getting an in-
come from their cows, but are doing nothing.
2^o\d -
Xhey are the sort to complain if the
Mate does not plough their land and plant
and cultivate their crons. That is the work
they can do for themselves, and they ought
to be doing it now instead of dawdling
about.
'' Cei'rowt" I
led to Relieve
'how' i?<2 cows I
otf f (iere g»yg
'CKC you
expec-'t'V a~o
"There are others who appear to be letting
their opportunities go They are sitting by,
waiting for the Government to do what
they ought to do for themselves.
|C*. »*V* r *?£>>
?' / //// a
/X I
CLSfU ' Uo'fy
r" —-**&, ,
x n „ ?■
A <V
»*' ij&
V=>
stfc v +<2 ' you *w^V“
_ "be do\r>e It'H'le -fcnc i*e " *_ ,
se-Hler -’ «se ? WV«re y««W
me deceo't' -scre_<\mt &r>y
-feso' oj-me -
m
om^
“This is tin* time when they should he get-
ting their hind ready and their fences up.
They want to get to work : there is not a
day for any «ue of them to lose.
(P J -^o .'N’or'K! Veil, I'll see yo«. . . 1
'farifUrCfo"»e wbaa ifc®s*~ yo uiofw*'* MC
‘Here hi 7
“ASSISTANCE!”


Laxo-Tonic Pills
Are a safe and certain remedy for Biliousness, Con-
stipation, Liver Troubles, Flatulence, Anaemia, etc.
Sold at 10Jd. and Is. 6d.*
GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
WORLD-FAMED
HATS.
For
QUALITY.
For
DURABILITY,
PERIONAL
ITEMS
W. C. Buchanan, M.P. for Wairarapa
(M.L.), has just handed over a cheque for £lOOO,
the first instalment of £4200 which is to help
build a hospital for incurables at Greytown.
Buchanan is himself an incurable, suffering from
political Toryism ; but charity covers a multitude
of sins—though it shouldn’t stretch as far as Par-
liament House.
William Moran, a Waihi (M.L.) miner,
doesn’t seem to have had a fair deal. After a
long two-hours’ battle with the sea, he saved his
mate’s life, and for that got the Humane
Society’s medal. Two days after the presentation
a mine accident blinded him. Waihi citizens
have tried to redress the balance with a good
benefit cheque and a gold medal and clasp.
Another purveyor of Stinking Fish turns
out to be the owner of a reputation even riper than
the goods he publicly hawks. A large, broody
squatter he was on the wing, homing for England,
whither most of Australia’s stinking fish birds
periodically migrate; but he roosted long enough
in one of the biggest American newspaper offices
en route to croak the old, old story of the stagna-
tion, ruin and confiscation that had followed in
the wake of the Labor successes at the Common-
wealth, N. S. Wales and South Aus. polls. For
himself, he and his hundreds of thousands of
capital had been driven out of the country, and
private enterprise was at an end. And now it is
announced —in a Parliamentary debate, too —
that part of his private enterprise was conducted
with some valueless cheques, and part of his
public enterprise was the set task of a common
gaol.
JUDGE SIM , OF M.L. ARBITRATION
COURT.
Died last week, Capt. A. McKenzie, who
was skipper of the old Birksgate when that steamer
had its sensational collision with theHowardSmith
Barra bool, off Bradley’s Head (Sydney), in the
’Bo’s. In those days the two were favorite pas-
senger vessels. The Birksgate was sunk and the
Barrabool severely damaged. Then the owners
collided in a series of costly law suits, in which
the Birksgate again came off'second best. Shortly
afterwards McKenzie forsook the sea.
Alec Hean, Acting-Premier of Tasmania,
climbed into politics through the jury box. He
was “ foreman ” in a big bush fire case, Dobson v.
the Queen, heard in 1898. The late William Per-
kins had a brief in the case, and the quality of the
foreman’s questions hit the lawyer so hard that he
dug him out, and advised him to go in for either
politics or law. Hean was a small and not over-
successful farmer at the time—and, for that
matter, he is a small and not over-successful
farmer still.
GETTING A LIFT
“Cripes!”
On the tombstone of J. F. Adams, a
patriarch who died on the N.S.W. North Coast
the other day, they will perhaps record the fact
that he introduced the sugar-growing business to
the now-thriving Clarence River district.
Brother Verran, Premier of South Aus.,
has been to Kalgoorlie and has had a glorious
time, spent almost exclusively in preach-
ing in Methodist chapels. On one day he
allowed himself to be dragged to a municipal
reception ; but when they got him into the Town
Hall the strain was too great, and, giving up the
struggle to do anything else, he started to preach
to the city fathers.
The site of Malvern (Vic.), which became
a “city ” the other day, was in the ’4o’s a part of
the cattle run of John Gardiner, who held a big
tract of land from the Government at a yearly
rental of <£l2 10s. He was one of three pioneers
who brought the first herd of cattle overland from
Sydney. Gardiner, as Malvern was then called,
was the chief source of Melbourne’s meat supply.
In 1843 some of the best of the holding was
bought right out from the Government by one
Farmer Jackson, who built a mansion upon it
and called his estate Toorak.
Died the other day in England, Felix
Spiers, of Spiers and Pond. The firm began as
Spiers and Hennelle, of the Cafe de Paris, at the
Theatre Royal in Bourke-street, Melbourne.
Then Spiers and Pond took the “ Crystal Bars ”
at Cremorne Gardens, under Coppin and Brooke.
The favorite bar was down the Yarra, alongside
the lake. The firm had imagination and pluck,
and those qualities brought it a financial lift
through the importing of the first All England
Eleven of cricketers—the Stephensons, Caffyn,
Lawrence, Mortlock, Iddison, Hearne, Griffiths,
Wells and “Tiny ” Bennett. Mallam was the
manager. Wanting a bigger field, the partners
soon afterwards cleared out to London, where
their catering became historical.
There was a centenary last week—that of
James Simpson, the discoverer of the value of
chloroform as an anaesthetic—which deserves
more celebration than 700 Empire Days. A
passage in one of de Maupassant’s stories describes
how an eighteenth-century patient, condemned to
have his leg off, was made drunk, and then
held down by a gang of laborers. His screams of
agony half-deafened the village. Ninety per
cent, of people who underwent major operations
in the first half of the nineteenth century died
from shock. The greatest operator was the man
with the strongest and most ruthless arm. Sir
James Fergusson used to take a patient's leg off
above the knee in about a minute : by a series of
mighty slashes he hewed through the flesh, and
then sawed the bone with the swiftness of a cham-
pion woodsman. Naturally, most of his subjects
were as dead as their severed limbs within an hour
or so.
Henry Cawsey, who was neither a great
detective nor a small policeman, retired from the
service of the Cabbage Garden a few days ago.
He put in 20 years in uniform and 17 out of it,
and retired as a Superintendent. Neither
brilliant nor imaginative, he nevertheless suc-
ceeded pretty well; for when he got a clue he
worried at it till he reached his victim, or a dead
end. Deeming was one of the victims; others
were Willie Phillips, the boy with the angel face;
Fatta Chand, who killed Juggoo Mull at Heales-
ville, and had to be forcibly nourished to preserve
his life till he reached the gallows ; and “ Buck ”
Millidge and four mates, who robbed a Colling-
wood bank in the ’Bo’s. Probably his best bit of
work is now forgotten—the breaking up of a gang
of young ruffians who terrorised South Melbourne
in the late ’Bo's by combining assault and robbery
with blackmailing. He convicted four of them,
and the sentences —from 10 to 18 years apiece-
discouraged the rest permanently.
Tiieie lias been some talk of Lord Rose-
bery extending his land holdings in the Northern
Territory. This lias led to an investigation in
the External Affairs Department as to what land
the “ ping-pong statesman” (as Joe Chamberlain
once called him) really possesses up north. The
records show that Rosebery’s Northern Territory
possessions don’t matter much —a few township
allotments in Palmerston and 309 acres in the
“ Hundred ”of Bray. They were all bought by
the Primrose scion on his visit to Australia. The
price was £735.
J. E. Dodd, M.L.C. and unobtrusive
Labor leader at Kalgoorlie, is the level-headed
man who, more than anyone else, has so far kept
strikes away from Westralia’s Golden Mile. His
tactfulness is likely to be severely tested in the
near future. Miners grumble ominously over the
contract system underground, and cost of living
is so increasing that a demand for increased wages
looks inevitable. Dodd is an old fellow-workman
and friend of Jack Verran’s, the S. Australian
Premier local preacher.
George E. Rich, the new Acting Supreme
Court Judge of N. S. Wales, is young for his job,
being 48 years of age. He is an Australian, edu-
cated at Sydney ’Varsity. His strong suit is
Company Law, and his practice has been mainly
in Equity. He was the late Sam Hordern’s coun-
sel in the big family suit, and journeyed to Eng-
land to argue—successfully—on Sam’s side before
the Privy Council.
J. W. Fleming, an ex-Mayor of Bruns-
wick, who was born on the Yarra Bank on June
1, 1837, and claims to be Victoria’s oldest native-
born, is the son of the long-departed ancient who
gave his name to the Fiemington suburb. Father
Fleming paid £2B for an acre near where the
Equitable Building now is in Collins-streef, and
at one time owned nine acres in the vicinity of
the present Richmond Town Hall.
George Scott becomes Detective Inspector
to the Melbourne Customs in succession to Detec-
tive Christie, retired. Scott has been 25 years in
the Melbourne police, and, as a plain-clothes man,
has often helped the hoary Christie in jthe nailing
of smugglers and Chinese breakers of the factory
laws. In fact, the choice falls on him mainly
because he is a distinguished savant on the habits
and manners of the opium-smuggling Melbourne
Chow.
“ Ben ” : Concerning the lion. LL.D. con-
ferred on Wullie Kidston by the infant Brisbane
University, there’s this one thing to be put to
Iceberg Irvine’s credit. When he resigned the
Vic. Premiership and paid a visit to Europe,
some of his doting admirers in Melbourne peti-
tioned his Alma Mater (Dublin) to confer on him
the degree of LL.D. The petition was successful
and the degree was conferred ; but the cold man
hit his admirers in the eye by declining to observ e
that the unearned thing had been left on his
premises.
Melbourne’s ex-Coroner Candler has
passed on. Though he lived to be 84, he was so
delicate as a young man that he broke down in his
medical studies, and could not go up for examina-
tion. Nevertheless he continued to be interested
in the trade, and was a competent doctor in all
but the diploma. A Tory Radical, he was most
conservative in his ways, and most democratic in
his sentiments. At the diggings, 60 years ago, he
wrote fierce newspaper attacks on Governor
Latrobe, like those to which Wilson signed him-
self “lota ”in the Argus. After the gold-fever
had died out he obtained a small country Coroner-
ship and advanced to be Melbourne District
Coroner, afterwards succeeding Youl as City
Coroner. Candler’s main recipe for prolonging
life was light eating and only one full meal a day.
N.S.WYs ex-Governor Carrington isn’t
wasting the “bale of crimson velvet” he received
on his appointment to the office of Lord Chamber-
lain. There was a danger that the fantastic old
practice was falling into disuse ; but Carrington
pressed his right to the velvet, and the Court of
Claims, after a study of precedents, made an
award in his favor, and so “ Charlie ” got “ of crim-
son velvet 40 ells.” Already he has had some of it
cut up and made into smoking-caps and slippers,
with long sweeps for the garniture of his upper
body. The superfine quality of the stuff makes it
extremely costly, and as the Lord Chamberlain is
mostly a wealthy man and draws a big salary, the
“ perk ” is a worse abomination than a well-paid
waiter’s tip.
Alfred Pengelley, just dead in Perth, was
the man who built up one of the greatest furni-
ture factories in Australia, at Edwardstown
(S.A.). The shop began by making birdcages,
and now produces almost everything up to tram-
cars. The veteran had been out of the business
for some years.
The late Chief Justice Darley (N.S.W.) —
plain mister in those days, of course—once very
nearly went into theatrical management, about
the last thing one would have suspected of hkn in
his later life. On the destruction of the old Vic-
toria Theatre, in Pitt-street, 30 years ago, the
ground landlords, the Josephson family, decided
to sell. Three men agreed to buy for £21,000.
The syndicate consisted of Frederick Darley, then
a barrister, in good practice; the late W. H.
Paling, the music merchant; and John Bennett,
the only one of the three who is still living. Mr.
Bennett had been for some 10 years lessee of the
Victoria. It was proposed to build a handsome
theatre upon the site. The partners were fixing
up details, when Darley wanted an extra £3OOO
spent on the dress circle. He wished it made
as comfortable as his own drawing-room.
Bennett, would not consent to an extra penny
going into the circle, which he considered the
worst paying part of a theatre. Neither would
five way; so the syndicate sold the land to
[arris and Ackmann at a handsome profit, and
sales rooms went up instead of the theatre.
CHIEF SECRETARY WALLIS , the
meekest looking politician , who defies the
Fat men of the S. Ans. Leg. Council.
“Beachcomber,” from the Solomons: —
Yet another murder here in the Solomon Islands,
Claude L. Bernays, formerly Government agent at
Gizo, and son of the one-time clerk of Queensland’s
Parliament, being the victim. Bernays left the Gov-
ernment service only in April last, and joined a
trader named Norman Wheatley in a venture in the
Maravo Lagoon. Ten days later Bernays was found
dead at his station. Oliver Burns, his predecessor,
was murdered at the same station less than two
years ago. After that the Government wisely closed
the Lagoon till thing 3 quietened down, and Bernays
was the Government officer who posted the notice on
Burns, Philp’s store at Gizo, declaring the Lagoon
re-opened. Wheatley’s traders have had shocking
luck. Gibbons was murdered at Oughli, McConville
at Bougainville, Finlay son at Choiseul, and Burns,
and now Bernays, at the Lagoon. Certainly there is
a theory that Bernays’ death was the result of sui-
cide; but those who knew the alert, hopeful man,
who left Gizo a few days ago, after investing money
in a motor-launch and plant, laugh at the notion.
The Solomon Islands native is an expert in the art
of shooting his man, and afterwards placing him in
a position suggesting the idea of a self-inflicted act.
The foundation of law, as expressed in native custom,
is an eye for an eye and a head for a head. A raid
was made recently on the Maravo tribes, and rightly
or wrongly, Liela, the chief, was sent to Fiji. The
general belief now is that Liela’s was a case of the
innocent suffering for the guilty; hence poor Ber-
nays’ fate.
The recent weather probably gave you something
to remember in the way of a cough or cold on the
lungs. You are not the only one. Dozens of people
are in the same position, but they are not dreading
it with Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy in the house.
Nothing that we could think of will give you the
relief that Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy gives. One
bottle will cure you of the worst cough you ever
had.*
The enterprising Australian Kodak Co.’s new Cata-
logue runs to 400 pages, and, with a comprehensive
index, is an exceptionally handy reference book for
every photomaniac. Not the least handy part of it
is a list of the books and booklets on .various
branches of photography which the man with the
camera will find useful.*
AN APPEAL TO JUDAH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Dr. Abrahams, preaching at Bourke-street Synagogue,
Melbourne, the other Saturday, told his congregation
that Judah was menaced. The children of Israel were
assimilating with other peoples. Intermarriage was
wiping out the race, and breaking down the old land-
marks.
Give ear, oh Isaac, Yacob, Cohnn !
What murd’rous Islam failed to do,
What furious Frank and fiery Don
With flame, and sword, and crushing screw
Could not accomplish, Christian charms
Now serve to bring about ! Our Abe
Is falling victim to the arms
Of unbelieving maids and marms.
All noseless are the Jewish babes.
Through centuries (since Basil II.)
Of outrage and oppression dire,
The faith and blood stood strong- and true,
The son was always like the sire ;
But, sco ched by kindness, see of late
The race of Judah fades. ’Tis shown
That quickly we assimilate.
Embrace no more the Christian mate—
Oh, sons of Judah, hold your own!
VICTORIA.
CON COHEN.
COMMISSIONER GORGE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The
{Premier "I
Agent-General I
Prime Minister <•
Kaiser
Dog Inspector '
was entertained yesterday at
a-
{luncheon "I
reception
bun-struggle V-
kaffeeldatsch I I
tiddly J
- at
the~
fTrocadero h
I Carlton I
J Savoy 1
) | Wursthaus j
Old Bull
V. and Bush J
&'
("Four
I Three hundred |
I Two hundred
I Ein hundert I
(Two J
persons were present, including High Commissione
George Reid. —Frequent cable message.
Wherever the visitors dine,
Wherever they gorge,
The cable is sure of a line—
“ Including George.”
Where teapots and orators spout
Ahead he will forge ;
No menu is perfect without
Including George.
No longer a rhyme to his name
The book will disgorge ;
So here’s to all diners of fame,
Including George!
VICTORIA.
L.


The Counting-House Commands
A Record Year.
A TEN PER CENT. PRESENT TO EVERY CUSTOMER.
During: the past forty years Gowing
Bros., the well-known men's and boys'
outfitters, and pioneer distributors of
Australasian-made goods, have only
held sales to mark important epochs in
the history of their business. The past
twelve months' trading- has been
unparalleled in their longf-continued
success. To mark its close their
counting-house has commanded that
each cash customer during the next
three weeks, from June 15 to July 8,
shall receive a 10 per cent, present.
Gowing Bros, will, in other words,
hand back to their customers 2/- off
every cash purchase of £l, or a pro
rata discount on any lower or greater
amount.
This 10 per cent, present does not
apply to specially-marked goods, but
will be made on the purchase of any
article in their establishment, and
during the next three weeks any pur-
chaser will receive a 10 per cent,
present off the listed prices in their
catalogue, which will be forwarded to
any address on application. All orders
carriage paid, as usual, throughout
Australia. For instance, a purchaser
of a 3-Guinea Austral Suit-to-measure
will receive a 10 per cent, cash present
of 6/3, bringing down the cost to 56/9♦
Gowing Bros.' address is 486-488 and
490 George Street, and 7,9, 11 13, 15
and 17 Royal Arcade, Sydney.


LLOYDS (Australia) LIMITED.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL, £500,000.
Directors :
FRANK GRIMLEY,
CALEB TERREY,
PHILIP PIENRY MORTON, TOPIN UPWARD
FREDERICK YELVERTON WILSON.
Special attention is called to the above Company’s announcement appearing- on page 33 of this issue.
PERKS, DANE & CO. PTY. LTD.
MELBOURNE
and SYDNEY.
* P.D.” Grease & “P.D.” Yarn
90 per cent, cheaper than any other system of lubrication.
FULL PARTICULARS ON APPLICATION.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Bank of New Zealand (Maoriland)
Paid Interest
towards on
Loss of Money Pivi-
Assets Ad- dend
Reali- vanced 5
Pro- Written sation by per Re-
fits. Off. Board. State. cent, serves.
Mtir t £ £ £ £ £
1900 .’.242,520 95,020 50,000 97,500 23,474
1901.. 300,242 160,665 50,000 89,577 23,474
1902.. 259.502 37,001 151,135 80,000 21,366 23,474
1903.. 290.591 15,001 174,410 80,000 21,180 23,474
1904.. 293.316 12,500 179,022 80,000 21,281 23,987
1905.. 320,909 15,001 206,312 51,978 47,618 23,987
Premium on Sale of Forfeited Shares (£19,910) 43,897
1906.. 330,330 16,001 224,329 40,000 50,000 43,897
Premium on Sale of Forfeited Shares (£37,397) 81,294
7J p.c. pref.
10 p.c. ord.
1907.. 343.881 16,000 40,000 87,500 281,675
1908.. 369,923 20,000 40,000 87,500 504,098
8J p.c. pref.
124 p.c. ord.
1909.. 368.151 15,000 40,000 106,850 710,999
1910.. 314.386 15,000 40,000 106,250 864,135
10 p.c. pref.
15 p.c. ord.
1911.. 355.270 20,000 40,000 125,000 1,034,405
Maoriland borrowed furiously and then floundered
horribly. The yarn told in that boom was just the
same as the yarn told to-day: “There is nothing to
fear, because the loans have been put into per-
manent and reproductive assets.” “Reproductive”
is an elastic term, though, and the work that earns
interest to-day is liable to earn only a third of its
own keep to-morrow. It isn’t merely a question of
droughts; the prices of staples have a large say in
the matter. In 1881 wheat in London averaged
455. 4d. per quarter, and that was considered low.
By 1891 it was down to 375., and still falling; 10
years later it was down to 255. Wool, which had
brought lid. in the earlier years when the borrow-
ing boom was raging, fell to sd. Certainly in time
prices climbed up a few rungs of the ladder; but
foreign creditors didn’t know that they were going
to climb, so wanted their -money back —-wanted to
put it in some place where it would look safer. Local
depositors in many cases had to draw because they
wanted the money; and, anyhow, they weren’t going
to let the foreigner milk the cow quite dry. This
bank, like the rest of them, had advanced borrowed
money on values based on high prices. When the
depositors wanted their money, the bank found that
the securities, if forced to a sale, wouldn’t in most
cases bring anything like the amount advanced on
them. It was in this crisis, after writing off over half a
million of reserves and being bled by the private
money-lender when accommodation was sought in a
frenzy, that the bank turned up at the M.L. Premier’s
office and said: “A million pounds, practically on
our own terms, or we’ll keep our doors closed to-
morrow morning, and you know what that means.”
Before it was all over the Government had put not one
million, but two and a-half millions into the busi-
ness—■ £ 2,000,000 represented by 4 p.c. guaranteed
stock, and £500,000 represented by pref. shares.
As remarked just now, the prices of M.L. staples
gradually recovered more or less, and, helped by
legislation which “persuaded” the big and mostly-
loafing landlords to subdivide, the tide soon rose
again. In fact, the recovery was amazing; so in
1903 a new arrangement was made between the bank
and the Government. Of the guaranteed 4 p.c. stock
£1,000,000 was renewed for 10 years, and the State
became the owner of permanent instead of termin-
able pref. shares. The State had, of course, saved
the bank. It raised and lent money at 4 p.c. at a
time when the bank could itself raise nothing. In a last
despairing effort the bank had borrowed £1,312,500
on undertaking to pay back £1,575,000 ; and this
money cost 64 p.c. Yet, though the State had
saved the concern at a time when Private Enter-
prise couldn’t or wouldn’t, the State still regarded it-
self, in 1903, as the tail of the dog. It certainly
took pref. shares. But it allowed the old share-
holders excellent terms. The ordinary capital was
in 150,000 shares of £3 6s. Bd., with a
liability of £3 6s. Bd., callable by the Gov-
ernment to make good all losses. The Govern-
ment allowed the shares to be henceforth of £ 6
13s. 4d. each, without further liability ; so that what
was formerly only a liability, which could not pos-
sibly pay a div., became capital, which on being
called up would be entitled to divs. As to divs., the
provision is that, after the prefs. get 5 p.c., the
ordinaries are entitled to 5 p.c., and thereafter the
ordinaries are entitled to 2 p.c. for every 1 p.c.
paid to prefs.; but the latter stop at 10 p.c. The
State cannot, therefore, get more than the £50,000
it drew last year; but there is no limit to what the
ordinaries may draw.
When the trouble happened, starting from 1888,
and coming to a crisis in 1891, the more hopeless-
looking assets were transferred to a special Board,
whose job was to nurse the lame ducks and send
them to market. Their estimated value was
£1,879,000, and the debt which had to be taken
over with them was £2,734,000. That debt was
guaranteed by the bank, which in its turn was
guaranteed by the State. The ducks made remark-
able progress; and they mostly brought more than
they had been valued at. This wiped off some of
the deficit; the rest was made good out of the
rapidly-increasing bank profits. To-day there are
practically none of those old assets left. The pre-
sent accounts show—Balances owing by purchasers,
£178,541 ; unrealised assets, £37,813.
There is, therefore, no longer any Assets Board;
so this comparison shows everything:—
Liabilities.
1908. 1910. 1911.
Notes in circulation .. £912,627 £919,329 £977,246
Bills in circulation, etc. 1,838,676 1,146,918 1,439,421
Deposits .. .. 12,771,413 14,687,680 17,886,746
Assets.
Liquid 7,399,884 10,921,024 13,712,973
Old Assets Board assets 471,235 333,291 216,354
Advances .. . 9,871,341 8,060,206 9,049,751
Premises, etc 321,853 359,790 423,739
The million debt to the State is payable in 1913,
and this may account for the bank maintaining so
very strong a cash position. Advances, though con-
siderably greater than they were 12 months ago, are
evidently held in with a tight rein; they are
three-quarters of a million less than they were three
years ago, although over five millions ”of new de-
posits have been received in that time. All this
new money has been added to the liquid assets. It
isn’t all unproductive coin and bullion, of course;
in fact, only £3,370,102 is in that form. The bal-
ance is mostly money at short call and Government
securities.
The capital is £1,500,000, but only £1,000,000
has been called up; the other £500,000 may be
called from ordinaries ( £3 6s. Bd. per share, equal
to the amount at present paid). The capital and re-
serves thus total £2,034,405. The liabilities (apart
from the million to the State) total £20,303,413.
This is practically £lO of public money to £1 of
shareholders’ money; and the proportion would in
ordinary circumstances be far too heavy, and would
demand an increase of share capital. ' Indeed, that
increase is desirable even as matters are. The only
thing that saves it from being imperative is the very
large holding of liquid assets, which means, of
course, that the deposits could be much reduced
without any exertion, and the proportion of public
to share capital reduced at the same time. Never-
theless, though so much is held in liquid form, it is
desirable that the capital should be increased, be-
cause, as the severe shrinkage of Consols shows, even
liquid assets are liable to take wings and make them-
selves scarce.
* * * *
The New York Life Insurance Co. —
This is one of the. three big American offices that
got into difficulties through struggling to show
bloated figures. The difficulties were, however,
tremendously exaggerated; and the offices suffered
far more than they should have done. Still the up-
roar did good. The Legislature did what probably
the offices would have been very glad to do
themselves if they could have come to an arrange-
ment among themselves. It restricted, for one thing,
the amount of new business to be taken. That, of
course, meant that the offices left off chasing busi-
ness where it was the most costly to get. In Aus-
tralia the Americans had to compete with Australian
offices with excellent records. Almost every policy
they got had thus to be fought for or bought dearly.
The Australian had a natural prolilection for his
own offices; for, curiously enough, the Freetrader,
while he said that almost every other foreign pro-
duct was better than the Australian, never said the
same thing about the life-insurance policy. Natur-
ally, therefore, the Americans’ Australian business
had been exceedingly expensive; and when they
were restricted by law as to the amount of their new
business, they either quitted the Australian field
altogether, or worked only the most fruitful part of
it. Even in the case of the Equitable, which made
the most thorough-going evacuation, complete ar-
rangements were, however, made for the payment of
claims on existing policies. On that score it has
never been possible to throw a stick at any one of
the three.
The years 1904-5 were the years of the wildest
struggle for business. In 1905 the income of this
New York Life reached £21,165,292, as against
£9,348,131 in 1898, only seven years previously.
As might have been expected, many of those policies
were thrown up; people had been carried off their
feet, and induced to take policies far bigger than
they could afford. In 1906, the income thus dropped
over a million. Since then the movement has not
been large, but it has been the right way;—
1907 £20,861.878
1908 21,008,853
1909 21,401,462
1910 22,099,262
Under the American law the securities have to be
valued yearly, and the increment or shrinkage shown
m the accounts. These movements are not exhibited
m the foregoing figures. They have been as follows—
Shrinkages. Increments.
1907 .. .. £4,736,327
1908 .. .. 49,760 £40,360
1909 .. .. 892,413 1,412,746
1910 .. .. 247,613 90,513
Profits made on actual sales were, of course, in-
cluded with the income shown above; but the
amounts are not large.
Last year’s transactions may be shown this way:
* nc ° me £22,099,262
Outlay-
Claims £11,042,745
Expenses 2,351,659
Net Shrinkage in value of assets 157,100
13,551,504
Added to Funds £8,547,758
Computed on total income the expense rate was
£lO 12s. 9d. p.c., which is less than half what
was in the days of the boom and the bloat. That,
other things being equal, necessarily means so much
more profit available for bonuses. The New York Life is
a mutual office, and all profits belong to the policy-
holders. Of the assets, approximately two-thirds are
bonds; 16 p.c. is lent on policies, 14 p.c. is in mort-
gages, and less than 2 p.c. is in real estate. The
bonds are set out to the policy-holders every year in
detail; they are mostly American. On the mean
assets (exclusive of interest and rentals accrued and
premiums in course of collection) the interest earn-
mgs for the past year averaged a very respectable
, ‘ Js. lOd. p.c. In the midst of the turmoil over
American offices the opinion was expressed here
that the Australian policy-holder who allowed him-
self to be stampeded into throwing up his policy,
would almost _ for certain be sorry for it later on •
and that opinion is being justified. The figures show
that this office, at any rate, is far more entitled to
and holds out far better prospects as to
bonuses, than it did when the vast majority of the
policies were booked.
The Intercolonial Investment, Lanti and
Building Co. (Sydney)
To Re- Re-
Oct., Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
1899.. £4,235 7 per cent. = £2,325 £l9lO £19,145
Forfeited capital .. .. .. 16 19161
1900.. 4,392 7 percent. = 2,339 2053 21’214
1901.. 4,911 7 ~ ~ 2,448 2463 23,677
1902.. 5,261 7 ~ ~ 2,537 2724 26,401
1903.. 5,900 7£ ~ ~ 2,762 3138 29.539
1904.. 6,591 9 „ ~ 3,355 3236 32,775
1905.. 7,639 10 „ ~ 3,792 3847 36,622
1906.. 8,952 12J ~ „ 4,742 4210 40,832
1907.. 9,249 10 ~ ~ 4,126 5123 45,955
1908.. 9,535 „ „ 5,659 3876 49,831
1909.. 12,018 12J „ „ 5,836 6182 56,013
1910.. 13,691 22| „ ~ 10,997 2694 58,707
April,
1911.. 8,155 10 ~ „ 3,007 5148 63,855
Six months ago the management of this very suc-
cessful co. decided on a div. at the rate of 10 p.c.
p.a.; but subsequently, after looking in the money-
box, it added a bonus, which brought up the total
distribution for the year to 224 p.c. In fact, it did
rather better than that, inasmuch as it invited the
shareholders to put the bonus, or most of it, into
new shares; so that, besides offering the bonus, Die
co. offered a 10 p.c. investment; and 10 p.c. ir./est-
ments are not to be got at every street corner. Now
the directors propose to do a trifle more. Years and
years ago, when the co. wasn’t what it is now,
18,000 shares were issued at ss. ; the others are all
15s. shares. It is now proposed, in order to bring
about uniformity, to offer the ss. shareholders one
15s. share for every three; that will bring the total
to 79,243 shares. That done it will be proposed to
offer 12,000 shares pro rata at par—say, one for every
64. The present ss. shares are not entitled to be
called up any further, except in the event of liqui-
dation; in other words, the 10s. for which they are
liable could never be converted into a dividend-earn-
ing asset. In that respect they differ from the
Burns-Philp partly-paid shares, over which there has
recently been so much commotion. The proposals
appear to be perfectly fair.
The co. is in the land-purchase and subdivision
business; and there has been a heap of money in
that lately. The kangaroo leaps which Sydney" has
been taking since it was afflicted with Federation
and other Curses, suited the co. admirably. It had
some remnants of land ; having got rid of these, first
the introduction of land-values taxation and then
the Federal graduated land tax provided the co. with
a new supply of land for subdivision. The howl of
the Anti-Labor papers and orators concerning the
fearful consequences of the Federal tax, no doubt
scared people into selling estates at prices which
they wouldn’t otherwise have looked at. This and
other cos. smilingly bought from the scared sellers;
and the table tells” trie result. How long it is going
to last this paper doesn’t of course know. The build-
ing boom will stop some day ; long before then, per-
haps, it will be very hard work to push off suburban
allotments, for undoubtedly enough allotments have
been sold during the past four years to accommodate
live times as many houses as have been built in that
time. The management of this eo., realising that,
is not taking the risk of holding much land. This
shows that and other things:—
Oct., Oct., Oct., April,
1900. 1905. 1910. 1911.
Debts (deposits, etc.) £17,417 £26,219 £44,218 £46,253
Freeholds, etc. .. 29,999 26,163 35,203 28,725
Advances .. .. 43,611 75,149 130,107 148,943
Other assets.. .. 154 1,551 3,193 349
Thus the co.’s risks are mainly in advances; these
are, no doubt, unpaid balances on land sold on time-
payment, sometimes to persons who have also got
assistance to build. Every instalment paid reduces
the risk ; so, unless the slump is very swift and very
severe, only the most recent advanees should involve
much loss at any time. That refers only to probable
losses. Probable profits are another matter; they are
likely to shrink very much indeed when the present
wave passes, and the property market again enters
the doldrums—as it is bound to do sooner or later.
The Herald and Weekly Times, Ltd. (Mel-
bourne) :
Dividends.
Pref. Written
Profits. (6 p c.) Ord. Off. Deficit.
„ £ £ £ £ £
Mar., 1904.. 3750 8 p.c. = 5000 164,131
Sept., 1904.. 13,873 3750 8 ~ „ 5000 720 159,728
Mar., 1905.. 14,887 3750 10 ~ ~ 6250 701 155 542
5ept.,1905.. 15,306 3750 10 ~ ~ 6250 706 150,942
Mar., 1906.. 13,846 3750 10 ~ ~6250 722 147 818
Sept., 1906.. 16,012 3750 10 ~ ~ 6250 724 142^530
Mar., 1907.. 15,600 3750 12 ~ ~ 7500 962 139 142
Sept., 1907.. 15,666 3750 12 ~ ~ 7500 979 135^705
Mar., 1908.. 16,579 3750 12 ~ ~7500 989 131 365
Sept., 1908.. 17,436 3750 12 ~ „ 7500 4085 129,264
Mar., 1909.. 15,485 3760 12 ~ ~ 7500 1287 126 316
Sept., 1909.. 18,773 3750 12 „ „ 7500 1568 120,361
Mar., 1910.. 17,987 3750 12 ~ ~ 7500 1338 114 962
Sept., 1910.. 20,870 3750 12 „ „ 7500 1403 106,745
Mar., 1911.. 20,868 3750 12 „ ~ 7500 1376 98,503
This co. has a share capital of £250,000, of which no
less than £198,000 is represented by goodwill,
which in a case of this sort means no more than the
7, t i,T Certaill P e °P^ e have of buying the Herald and
the Weekly Times. Goodwill is, therefore, an in-
tangible thing; it is also invisible except to the eye
of faith. Moreover, it is something that the co.
practically can’t sell except on liquidation; for ob-
viously a co. that sells its goodwill sells its right to
live. Hence the item ought to be cleared out of the
balance-sheet, and its place taken by accumulated
profits. The ordinary plan is to gradually write
down goodwill. This co. prefers to let the item
stand intact, but accumulates a reserve of liquid
assets; and though that isn’t as good a plan, inas-
much as the reserve might conceivably be used for
some other purpose, it is highly commendable. The
business has been very profitable, especially during
the last few years. This shows some of the pro-
gress : ' y 1
Liabilities.
„ . Mar.,’os. Sept.,’lo. Mar.,’ll.
Sundry creditors ... £4,016 £8,152 £7,991
Assets.
Freehold .. .. 31,243 50,542 50,611
Machinery.. .. 24,615 26,660 25 438
Stock .. .. 13,811 14,631 15,534
Liquid assets .. 38,805 70,826 79,155
The assets include everything but the goodwill. It
will be seen that, besides adding to the freehold, etc.,
the net liquid assets have improved this way:
T . .. , Mar.,’os. Mar.,’ll.
Liquid assets £38,805 £79,155
Liabilities 4,016 7,991
Surplus £34,789 £71,164
An increase of £36,375 —an excellent record. The
capital consists of 125,000 pref. and the same number
of ordinary £1 shares, all fully paid.
The Melbourne Trust, Ltd., formed in 1903,
to take over what was left of the wrecks of the City
of Melbourne Bank, the Federal Bank of Australia
and the English and Australian Mortgage Bank: ’
Deficit
(Preliminary
Oeb, Profit. Dividends. Expenses).
1903 .. £3,116
Dec-. Reserves.
1904 .. £4,899 Nil 1,783
1905 .. 4,610 Nil 6,393
1906 .. 9,925 4.V p.c. =£11,389 4,929
1907 .. 15,965 6 „ „ 17,083 3,811
1908 .. 23,616 8 „ „ 22,777 4,650
Accumulated profits on sales, £148,709 153,359
1909 .. 25,183 20 p.c. = 56,944 121,598
Assets Written up .. .. £173,987 295,585
Distribution of assets to
shareholders .. .. £246,559 49,026
1910 .. 26,289 6Jp.c. = 18,492 56,823
The ghosts of three Melbourne land-boom 'banks sit
on top of that table. When the boom burst and the
banks burst with it, the latter’s assets were handed
over to three undertakers. After a few years, as
much the same people were interested in all the
corpses, and in whatever could be got out of their
clothes, unification was decided on, and this Mel-
bourne Trust, Ltd., was formed. The new concern
issued 1,366,666 shares of 4s. each and £392,485
worth of debentures, and two of the eld cos. were
also permitted to distribute a trifle of cash. To
arrive at the proper share of each of the three lots
of shareholders, a valuation of all assets was made
on a common basis in 1899; and it was agreed that
as properties were sold debentures should be paid off.
The year 1899 was the year before Federation and
inter-State Freetrade —the year before Australia
really became Australia. When that great thing hap-
pened changes began to occur quickly. There had
been good seasons before; but one way and another
Australia was in a better position to take advantage
of them than ever it had been hitherto. Consequently
wealth accumulated, properties advanced in value,
and with almost every sale a trifle was added to the
fund which was built up out of surpluses received
in excess of the valuation on which the co.’s capital
was based. By the end of 1909 all the debentures
had been retired; and then the co. was in a position
to do something. What it did is partly set out in
the table. Twelve months ago it distributed (in
addition to the 8 p.c. div.) £34,167 in cash =l2
p.c. on the capital, making a total dividend of 20
p.c. for the year. Then during the past year it
issued a further £246,559 in either cash or 4 p.c.
debenture stock. The two distributions were equal
to 3s. lOd. per share—only 2d. less than the capital
of the co. And, of course, the old capital still stands
good. Of that £246,559 mentioned above, £193,953
is now represented by debenture stock; the other
£52,606 has been paid in cash. The co. is buying
up the stock as opportunity offers; of the year’s
profit, £1654 has been derived from discounts on
these purchases.
The co., as already mentioned, was originally a
unification of three undertakeries. There was still
another undertakery in business of the same sort—
the Mercantile Bank Assets Co. When the shuffle
occurred last year this also was absorbed, in return
for shares. Previously these numbered 1,366,666;
now they are 1,479,355. On a revaluation of the
new undertakery’s assets, a surplus of £28,782 was
disclosed; and that is included in the £173,987 by
which assets were written up, as shown in the table.
The enlarged capital and reserves, together with the
debenture stock, are represented by properties and
investments, £446,119; and purchasers’ balances,
£124,070. There are a few small debts besides the
debentures ; but they are balanced by cash. The value
placed on the nroperties is the valuation as at March
1910. These properties include sheep stations and a
sugar property in Fiji; and such assets are liable to
big changes in value. If they were marked at their
full value in March, 1910, they will probably not
appreciate much more, because land values were high
last vear, on account of the extraordinary prosperity
of the country. J
Obviously, by making a revaluation under such
conditions, and distributing cash and stock (which
is being bought back for cash) to represent the in-
crease in valuation, the co. has discounted the future,
in a sense. Anyway, the old profits, arising from
surpluses, won’t be repeated. (This, of course, is
on the assumption that the full value was taken in
1910.) So the future depends mainly upon the re-
turns from the properties; and they are very good
at present. They may be very good also in the
future; but it is equally probable that the cream has
been skimmed. And a very rich dish it has been for
some people.
The Castle Salt Co-operative Co. (Adelaide):
Nominal
Written To Re- Re-
May, Profits. Dividends. Olf. serves, serves*
1900.. £2.195 Nil £1420 £775 £775
1901.. 2,214 Nil 802 1412 2187
1902.. 5,049 Nil 2542 2507 4694
1903. 6,665 8J p.e. = £5762 1134 4463
1904.. 6,041 74 ~ ~ 4939 750 352 4815
1905.. 5,609 74 „ ~ 4939 750 4735
1906.. 5,890 71 ~ „ 4939 750 201 4936
1907.. 4,883 6| „ „ 4116 750 17 4953
Loss.
1905.. 632 Nil _ _ 4321
Profit.
1909.. 6,426 71 p.c. = 4939 2000 —380 S
1910.. 10,863 10 ~ „ 6585 3000 1278 5086
1911.. 10,909 10 ~ „ 6585 3000 1324 6410
(*Amount of “ Goodwill ” item being unspecified.)
Of the total amount written off, £lOOO is applied
to reduce the book-values of plant, freeholds, and
leaseholds respectively. The co. carries on business
in the swamps on Yorke Peninsula (S.A.) ; the salt
rises in the winter, and is scraped off in the summer
and refined. It is alleged that there is no likelihood
of the supply falling off; but that, of course, does
not admit of positive proof. The co. for some years
did very pooriy, but the Commonwealth’s Protective
tariff, coupled with inter-State Freetrade, came to
the rescue; and the co. is now on a good and fairly
safe wicket. There is, no doubt, a possibility of
more competition, because sites suitable for salt-
making by evaporation—the process carried on near
Geelong (Vic.) —exist both in N. S. Wales and
Queensland. Proposals have been made lately to
establish works in these places; but they have fallen
through, chiefly on account of the very thorough way
in which the business of the present suppliers is
organised. The Castle Salt Co. has a capital of
£65,850, but some of that is represented by good-
will. The size of this paper item is not specified.
Nothing has been written off it for 10 years at least;
and it is doubtful whether anything has ever been
written off it at all. This isn’t a satisfactory
feature. And there are others. Steps certainly
ought to be taken to build up a reserve of liquid
assets, in case things should go wrong; but as no-
thing of that sort has so far been done, part of the
dividend can only safely be regarded as return of
capital.
The Illavvarra and South Coast Steam
Navigation Co. (N S.W.):—
Net. To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
Mar., 1904.. £2692 8J p.c. =£2490 £202 £27,022
Sept., 1904.. 2192 8§ ~ ~ 2490 26,724
Profit made on sale of wharf .. 21,051 47,775
Assets written down, £15,377.. .. 32^398
£24,898 of reserves transferred to capital 7,500
Mar., 1905.. 3562 7 p.c.= 2614 948 8,448
Sept., 1905.. 2086 7 „ „ 2614 7 920
Mar., 1906.. 3062 7 „ „ 2614 448 8,368
Sept., 1906.. 3079 7 ~ ~ 2625 454 8,822
Mar., 1907.. 3348 7 ~ ~ 2625 723 9 545
Sept,., 1907.. 2628 7 „ 2625 3 9*548
Mar., 1908.. 2466 7 „,, 2625 9,389
Loss.
Sept., 1905.. 1507 Nil 7 882
Profit.
Mar., 1909.. 3456 7 p.c. = 2625 831 8,713
Sept., 1909.. 2335 7 „,, 2625 8 423
Mar., 1910.. 2636 7 „,, 2625 11 8*434
Sept., 1910.. 972 7 ~ ~ 2625 6^781
Loss.
Mar., 1911.. 3993 7 ~ ~ 2625 163
There is another way of putting the history of the past
two terms. In March, 1910, there was an Insurance
Fund of £8370 included with the reserves. This
has been cut right out at two blows. Disregarding
that transaction a profit of £5349 has been made.
In addition there is a fund for repairs, suspense,
public risk and contingencies; a few pounds have
been added to it, and it now totals £1348. Pos-
sibly this should be added to reserves ; the inclusion
of suspense items makes it doubtful, though. The
co. doesn’t tell much about itself. The P. and L.
account is a gaunt skeleton, which mocks the in-
quirer with this one entry—“ Net profit this half-year
(after providing for depreciation, etc.).” The size
of the provision for “depreciation, etc.,” is never
breathed; yet almost everythin- depends upon that.
Ihe fact that a large slice of the reserves was re-
cently written off—in fact, practically the lot—sug-
gests that the ordinary provision hasn’t been enough.
The management has no doubt been hit by poor
seasons and the general depression of the South
Coast, which has produced big landlords and dull
tenants and workpeople; but it hasn’t done much
itself to shake things up. Allen Taylor has now
joined the Board, and that is going to produce a
change. The things the new director said when he
inquired iuto some of the most recent ship-purchases
mac o by the co. would make interesting reading.
; !?c co - s financial position is only moderately good ;
it owns £17,338, and liquid assets of various kinds
(mostly book debts) can be put at about £9OOO.
The Ocean Accident and Guarantee Cor-
poration, Ltd :
Reserves
(includ-
ing Re-
serve
for
Dividends paid Added Unex-
In- during year to Re- pired
come. Profits. (less Tax). serves. Risks).
£ £ f £ g
1900.. 878,492 71,496 20 p.c. = 28,096 43,400 685,484
New share premiums .. 96,250 784 734
1901. 1,120,359 20,367 20 „ „ 36.458 768*613
Loss.
1902.. 46,936 20 ~ ~ 32,42 f 689 253
Profit.
1903. .1.130,516 48,747 20 „ ~ 32.415 16,332 705,585
1904. .1.090,527 27,124 15 „ ~24,634 2,490 708,075
1905.. 1,113,675 40,490 15 „ ~24,554 15,936 724,011
1906.. 1,178,384 141,772 20 „,, 32,739 109.033 833,044
1907. .1,480,715 230,290 25 „ ~40,923 189,367 1,022,411
Transferred to Contingency a/c, £44,000 .. 978,411
1908. 86,718 27ip.c. =45,015 41,703 1,020,114
1909.. 1.536.121.132,696 23| „ ~ 40,851 91,845 1,111,959
1910.. 1,727,069 235,872 39 „ ~66,912 168,960 1,280,919
Of these huge reserves, £581,525 is to the credit of
the fund to provide for unexpired risks; and this
fund is a very doubtful reserve. In addition, but
not included among the reserves, there is the Invest-
ment Reserve and General Contingency Fund,
£102,747. This is not included with the reserves,
mainly because the balance-sheet carries this note —
“The above investments, less the Investment Reserve
and Contingency Fund, are in the aggregate fully
of the value stated in the balance-sheet.” The divi-
dends shown are the dividends paid during the year
(though the “interim div.” for 1910 was, as a matter
of fact, not paid until January of this vear). The
divs. for the past three half-years have'been: Last
half, 1909, £32,451 ; first half, 1910, £34,461;


PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (Limited),
Trustees, Executors,
Administrators,
Attorneys under
Power, Agents, etc.
Absolute Security, Efficient
and Economical Management.
Having Handled almost every
class of Assets, it possesses a
much wider experience than
is possible for an individual.
Trust Funds to Lend
at from 4 per cent.
2, 4 and 6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
A. T. MACKENZIE,
W rite or Call for Booklet. Manager.
GREENING’S
SCREENING.
Agate Stee/, Phosphor,
Bronze, Brass.
Write for particulars to
FRASER & CHALMERS LTD.,
Equitable Building-, Melbourne;
Macdonald Street, Kalgoorlie;
New Zealand: D. M. DAVIS, Agent, Hall of
Commerce, High Street, Auckland. [2
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
last half, 1910, £32,451. The last-named, which
was payable at the end of March, will not be shown
in The' Bulletin table until the time comes round
for the next post-mortem. The co. has its head-office
in London, and is mainly English. It got its great
lift when accident insurance became very general
under the British Employers’ Liability Act. Ihe
co., having very little data to go on, made a mess
of it at first, chiefly because it didn’t realise how
often men were injured at their work ; also, no doubt,
employers who had up to that time allowed men to
remain at work, though they were partially disabled,
put them off when accident premiums had to be paid
anyhow. Hence, before the co. had time to look
round, it was landed in one year in a loss of
£46,936. It knows much better now, and by care-
ful selection makes a tremendous profit, considering
the paid capital—only £172,308. The modesty of
that capital compared with the turnover and the
profit, has resulted in a very rapid growth of re-
serves ; and last year the interest earnings alone more
than paid the div.—they could have paid a 40 p.c.
div., in fact —leaving all the underwriting profit to
go towards the further strengthening of the reserves.
Of the reserves and capital about 60 p.c. is in Govern-
ment securities and railway debentures and shares
(mainly debentures) ; only about 6J p.c. is out on
mortgage; 10 p.c. is in premises, and 12 p.c. has
been lent to the Commercial Union Assurance Co.
against securities. Of the premiums 48 p.c. went in
actual payment of claims : the balance of 52 p.c. was
available for expenses (39 p.c.) and for dividends
and reserves.
* * * *
An underwriting co. is on the market —
Lloyd’s (Australia), Ltd. The project is no doubt
mainly due to the favor at which “industrials” have
suddenly arrived. Most cos. recently floated have
been formed to acquire and extend established busi-
nesses. Practically the owners of any such business
dare not risk failure; for failure would mean loss
of prestige, and might easily mean something more
serious. In some cases the result has been that the
owners have given away large blocks of shares to
ensure flotation ; in many other cases owners, though
they would be very glad to get some public money in
for business-extension or other purposes, have let
the thing slide. The new co. proposes to go in for
underwriting pure and simple; it will consider pro-
posals for flotation, and will guarantee the success
of those of which it approves for a fixed commission
- —from 5 to 10 p.c. If the co. is well handled, and
commands public confidence, there shouldn’t be very
much risk about it, because the investing public will
naturally be more inclined to “come at” a concern
which the underwriting co. thinks "“good enough.”
The co. is making an issue of 10,000 snares, of £5O
each; it is, however, proposed to get in only £5 per
share at once. No shareholder may hold more than
10 shares. The idea evidently is to make a wide
distribution of shares, so that as many people as
possible may be got to talk about any concern which
the co. has underwritten. In this co. management
will be everything; given good management, and
assuming a continuance of good times in Australia,
the profits should be very large.
* * * *
If the Hercules and Primrose (Tas.)
people agree to amalgamate with the Tasmanian
(German) Smelting Co. for the purpose of allowing
the latter co. to operate the Oker process, they may
be sorry some day that they didn’t first find out
something more, not only about this process, but
about others as well. It is not as though there were
no other offering. E. J. Ilorwood has already
treated some Hercules ore; and before the share-
holders hand themselves over to a co. intent only
on introducing the German process, they should cer-
tainly insist on the Australian process being given
an exhaustive test. In fact, nothing else should be
done until both processes have been tested. It is all
very well to say that the Oker process, has been
proved in Germany; but what may be a success
there, with cheap labor and various metallurgical
works available to enable the different products to
be advantageously dealt with, may be ,an utter
failure here. In the authoritative accounts of the
process, hardly anything is said as to costs and re-
coveries ; and it is clear also that the ore dealt with
differs materially from that of the Hercules. The
former is heavier in copper (values are over 4 p.c.),
while the Hercules ore is higher in zinc, which is
likely to cause incrustations and other smelter
troubles.
The clear policy of the Hercules people is to first
instal a small unit of the comparatively inexpensive
Horwood plant, and get the best possible inde-
pendent expert advice on the result as compared
with What can be got from the same class of ore
under treatment at the existing works at Oker.
The amalgamation of mines and smelters on fair
terms is a good thing; but the adoption of a process,
to the exclusion of a possibly much better one, with-
out actual trials, would be suClr a piece of folly that
it is hardly possible to conceive of its being seriously
entertained.
No doubt there are circumstances in which a
mining co. would be justified in simply rushing a
co. offering a treatment process; but that could only
be where it was as clear as daylight that the new
thing was away ahead of all others, and was in
danger of being snapped up by somebody else. But
the Oker process isn’t that sort. The mixed ore is
(1) roasted, and then (2) smelted in a blast fur-
nace. The products are an impure lead bullion, a
matte, and a slag more or less rich in zinc. The
bullion is (3) refined by the Parkes process. The
matte is (4) crushed, (5) roasted, and then (6) re-
smelted, and the product is (7) refined electrolyti-
cally. The slag is (8) crushed, (9) briquetted, and
(10) smelted in a blast furnace of peculiar type, in
which the zinc, as oxide, is trapped in chambers,
flues, and finally in a bag house. The method is
clearly cumbersome and intricate, and, with so many
different processes, heavy losses are almost inevit-
able and so are heavy costs. Under the circum-
stances the absence of much mention of those two
all-important factors is quite understandable. In
the absence of those particulars, the co. that buys
the process buys a pig in a poke—-and, worse still,
buys that pig while there are owners of other pigs
saying “Buy, buy, buy! But, so far as my pig is
concerned, you can open the bag and make an in-
spection. The proper , course in such a case is
obvious. Let all the available pigs be viewed and
tried before any one is purchased.
Baker’s Creek, Hillgrove (N.S.W.)
crushed 189 tons for 183 oz. gold, including 250z.’
in concentrates. This is disappo'nting, and "doesn’t
verify the assay's taken from No. 14 level and
stopes. Prospecting north of the crosscut has not
come up to expectations, so generally the outlook
is cloudy.
Homeward Bound, Wyalong (N.S.W.),
is now producing' a little g’ood stone. The property,
which has had a very chequered career, has been
taken over by a party of tributors on a two years’
lease. They lately struck excellent mineral stone
in a 6-inch reef at the 400 ft. level, and several
crushing's should be taken out up to the end of the
year. The best stone will be treated at Cockle
Creek and the seconds locally by battery. The
co. receives 20 p.c. of the net proceeds.
A trio of German experts are in Mel-
bourne to tell Monty Cohen and John L. Wharton
what they think of the big Morwell brown coal de-
posits. Geologically, the Cabbage Garden started
coal-making a million years too late, or it didn’t get
dipped sufficiently deep under the ocean for the pre-
historic Titans to heap sandstone on it like they
did above the N.S.W. measures. Still, Nature
built up a mass of brown coal thicker than anything
elsewhere known. Bores have gone down 800 ft.
through the measures, proving coal almost all the way.
“Geology” Stirling tried to get Victorians to be-
lieve in brown coal, and went specially to Germany
to inquire into the subject. The seed he dropped
fell in barren ground, though. Others, including
G. D. Meudell, sought' to endow 7 it with vitality;
but Capital was “scarey” all through, as it always is
until some fellow with a bit himself begins to jump,
whereupon other oof birds hover round like crows
over a lamb. John Wharton, when he lit out,
dragged in the Baillieus, who may have roped in
Cohen and de Bavay. Then, it is said, Amschel, with
a big German connection, became interested —whence,
no doubt, comes the importation of German experts
in brown coal and electrical power. Electricity, sul-
phate of ammonia, oils, briquettes and other odds and
ends are to come out of the bjg deposits if science be
given play. Producer-gas is to be the base of the
electricity, which is to be delivered in Melbourne so
cheaply that the coal-lords of Newcastle will have to
fold up their banners from the outer walls. All this
is to be done for a round million or so if the three
gents, from the Fatherland say, “Yah.” Thus the
Teuton may fasten another sucker on Australian
trade, for most of the million will come hither from
his well-stocked purse. Vested interests in Melbourne
may fight hard to keep the scheme back, but they
won’t be listened to. Wharton’s real opponent mav
be the Labor party, which wants fuel, water and
other monopolies reserved for the people.
Poseidon Alluvial, Poseidon (Vic.)
2330 z. from 42 fathoms “from drives only.” This is
hot stuff. The show is one of those neat little claims
that often lead to better things. All the way down
the lead big nuggets, with a little fine gold, have
been found. The weathering of the Turnagulla “in-
dicators” accounts for these plums. Above the Posei-
don Alluvial, the Dividend claim has justified its
name from one end of the show to the other. But
the gutter isn’t a Madame Berry, though it mav
make up beyond the Goulburn. " There a big lead
exists if bores don’t lie. Most of the Dividend share-
holders are in the co. as originals, so their luck has
chased them along three claims that promise (bar
possibly the Cathcart) to be three of the richest re-
cent alluvial shows, fathom for fathom, in Victoria
Old alluvial hands never lose their fancy for deep-
lead work, and if the newcomer turns up the trumps
expected, a lot of loose cash will be invested lower
down on the gutter.
* * * *
Stanley Hunter, so it is whispered, is to
quit State coal-mining, to assume control of the boring
of the Kerrac basin. This adjoins Powlett; and
Broome, of the State coal mine, thinks, there may be
a show there as big as the 25 million ton seam be-
neath his back door. Stanley Hunter did most of the
graft at the Powlett till Broome’s advent. Since
then the latter has been sweeping hard, but none too
clean. There are a lot of young irresponsibles who
are not doing a fair thing to make this State enter-
prise a success. Broome should stiffen up. If he
can t do the tackling, the solid men among the
miners ought to talk very plainly to their less fair
and thoughtful fellows.
* * * *
Great Boulder’s case is critical. Its main
ore-shoot in depth has passed to the Golden Horse-
shoe, and it is not likely that it will come back
again; also it is improbable that any great-thin”-
will be found to take the place of the lost shoot.
On the present output the reserves will give about
four years’ supplies; but in view of the present
cheerless outlook, it is hard to see how current re-
turns or dividends are going to be maintained much
longer. The London directors must know how seri-
ous the position really is, and it is up to them to
pass on the information to shareholders.
Duncan McAulay, late of the Boulder Per-
severance, and formerly at Great Cobar, succeeds
G. M. Roberts as general-manager of the Associ-
ated (W.A.). Latter’s reorganised plant is now in
full work, and a monthly surplus of somewhere
about £3OOO is prayed for. The co. may manage
to rake in this surplus for a time; but, judging
by the condition of the mine, it is not likely to
do it for very long.
* * * *
Golden Horseshoe (W.A.) may yet try
to dish the bears by getting the loan of the Boulder
Co. s Edwards shaft to work the ore recently dia-
mond-drilled at 2800 ft. It was pointed out at the
meeting that, by taking this course, instead of wait-
ing at least two years for the co. to deepen its own
shaft and get at the ore, the latter could be reached
and made available for the mill in a few months.
Ihe chairman said the matter had not escaped the
attention of the Board, and vaguely remarked that
when the time arrived for sounding the Boulder
people on the subject, the directors would not fail to
do so.
* * if
Apologising for the condition of the mine
the Golden Horseshoe chairman said that, although the
estimate of reserves made by the French expert
Kuss fell short of what the Board had looked for it
still represented a very substantial bundle of trea-
sure. Something was also added about the future
being hopeful and the progress made towards the
resumption of dividends being considerable; but
n view of the falsifications of the Board’s previous
promises, all this may be regarded as mere hot
air. The Horseshoe has hopes of moderate suc-
cess in the future, but shareholders will have to
wait a good deal longer for the next dividend than
the Board alleges.
* * * *
(W.A.) is deepening its shaft
to 100 ft., which, in view of recent happenings, is
about the best thing it could do. So far a bulge
of ore first exposed in costeening, and since pierced by
a crosscut at 50ft., has been relied on for window-
dressing. Nothing but a favorable report by a
mining man of standing will convince the sane
section of the gambling public that the mine is any-
thing more than a bag of tricks.
Bullrush Estates (W'.A.), which recently
announced that it had had enough of Bullfinch has
turned down Reidell’s Great Unknown option at Mt
Jackson, and is looking elsewhere for a property.
Xot up to representations’’ is the official reason given
th ?> n ? t I t . ReidelPs show. A number of
other Bullfinch discontenteds, including Chaffinch have
experts nosmg round the West for something fresh.
In the event of nothing suitable being obtained
winding-up meetings will follow.
Gympie (Q.) returns for May are poor,
and, since so much prospecting is called for, calls
made were unfortunately low. Altogether 12,000
tons were crushed for 48120 z. gold. Divs. totalled
only £2920; calls ran to £2873. The chief pro-
ducers were: Scottish Gympie, 7200 tons, 16830 z.;
No. 3 N. Columbia, 844 tons, 7120 z.; No. 2 S. Gt.
Eastern, 875 tons, 4490 z.; No. 1 N. Columbia, 483
tons, 3640 z.; S. Glanmire and Monkland, 712 tons,
3430 z.; No. 1 N. Victory, 200 tons, 1960 z. Divi-
dends were declared by No. 3 N. Columbia (3d.),
£1000; No. 1 N. Columbia (2d.), £800; No. 1 N.
Victory (3d.), £600; and Phoenix (selling off),
£520.
No. 3 North Columbia returned the loan
it received from the Government before it distributed
its maiden div. Like its neighbor, No. 2, and other
shows on the Columbia line, No. 3 will depend a
good deal on _ patches of specimen stone, so there is
much uncertainty about the future.
The Cumberland, Charters Towers (Q.),
paid its shareholders their first dividend (4d.) the
other day. The previous owners took several thou-
sands out of it.
* * * *
Although Marshall’s Queen, Charters
Towers, did fairly well out of its recent crushing
from the old Queen Cross reef, which averaged £4
9s. 9d. per ton, the pace set by the market was
too rapid. The reef as opened up makes a fair
show, but the bottom level is the poorest, and
there is some doubt whether the shoot of mineral
will carry down below No. 2 level.
* * * *
Brilliant Extended, Charters Towers,
treated 26,760 tons quartz last half-year for a profit of
£6XOO. The stone averaged a shade under £2 2s. per
ton, and costs took £1 17s. sd. Reserves figure at
50,000 tons, valued at £2 ss. per ton, though it is
admitted that it is very difficult to give values for a
capricious reef like the Extended’s.
New Brilliant Freehold, Charters Tow-
ers, is showing improved prospects in the Brilliant
workings. The prospect of having deeper levels opened
when the boundary rise from Mills’ No. 14 is fin-
ished, has encouraged a few buying orders. During
last half-year 10,377 tons were crushed for an aver-
age of £4 6s. 6d., which accounts for the way this
co. has been handing out dividends. Another Is. per
share will be paid in July. There is a total credit of
£25,636, of which the forthcoming distribution
will take £7500.
The little St. Mungo copper mine at Cion-
curry (Q.) pays its sixth dividend on June 29. There
has been 6d. per share for every month this year—-
all from the rich ore which the co. is gouging out
of its narrow veins. Queensland has had no such ex-
perience since the early days of the 0.K., though the
O.K.’s bulges of ore were much larger. The O.K.
township, by the way, is now quite dead, and the
business people have scattered themselves at Chilla-
goe and Einasleigh and on the Etheridge.
* # * *
Mount Elliott (Q.) continues to send won-
derfully rich ore to the furnace. The output for
May was 572 tons blister, containing: Copper,
565 i tons; gold, 1098 oz.; silver, 5370 z. Taking
copper at £5O per ton, and gold at £4 per oz,,
the gross value was £32,720, which on 4624 tons
sent to the furnace, means £7 Is. 7d. per ton.
No wonder the co. makes a profit of from £12,000
to £15,000 per month. The total expenses are
about £19,000 per month, which is a lot to spend on
4624 tons of ore. The prediction of the Board, that
Mount Elliott would give for the first year a profit
of £1 per share, seems likely to be verified. It is,
however, up to optimistic shareholders to consider
what effect an extraction of from 50,000 to 60,000
tons of prime ore will have on the reserves, which
have been rendered more expensive to handle by the
recent creep and the heavy stoping campaign that
the upper levels have been subjected to. And,
further, the mine reports from No. 5 level are
not too good, which makes it all the more neces-
sary to regard the dividends as mostly return of
capital.
Mount Morgan’s financial year closed on
May 31, and a clean-up at the mundie-works made
the return from gold ore spell 13.18dwt., a long
jump from the 7.6ldwt. shown in April. Alto-
gether 30,505 tons were trehted—B949 gold ore and
21,556 copper ore. The aTterage was £2 16s. lOd. ;
total, £86,917. The remarkable feature of the
return is that gold and." copper gave an almost
exactly equal amount—6o9. tons of copper were
valued at £30,450; tjiq 71590 z. of gold contents
were worth a shade overi. £30,000. Thus a ton of
copper, collects within a few shillings of £5O worth
of fine gold—a happy condition which has not often
been met with in .copper mining.
* ■* * *
Balfour copper field (Tas.) is a copper
field without any copper to speak of. As a mining
camp it is blown right out of the door and over the
hills and far away, and the facts leading up to that
very proper condition of affairs are beyond dispute.
Yet Melbourne papers assist Langford to say that it
isn’t so, and some of them publish anything that the
Balfour .barrgckers like to say at 12 guineas or so
the column. Long reDorts were published about his
Ex. of Tas. turning the first sod and feeding at the
banquet to celebrate the initiation of the Stanley-
Balfour railway; and “great” papers collected the
thrilling speeches and didn’t get paid half enough
for publishing the tripe. The railway scheme may
be all right; certainly the mining end of it is all
wrong. But what is indefensible is that ignorant
people may be led to buy shares in the belief that
the scheme is of such vast public importance that
columns are printed about it. This kind of paid-for
“news” is continuously increasing. Following an Ade-
laide precedent, a two-year-old scheme of one Mel-
bourne paper is to charge for the reports of school
prize-days at 6s. an inch, and if that plan is adopted
and Madden, 0.J., distributes the prizes and advises
the universe as usual, the cost will ruin the peda-
gogue. By-and-bye about the only news inserted for
nothing will be the report regarding the dreadful
character of the man who has just been hanged.
The Birkbeck Bank (London), lately re-
moved to Queer-street, had flourished for half a
century or more on small deposits from London’s
mildest and thriftiest citizens of no importance.
The Building Society, that seems to have become
a large part and parcel of the Bank’s business, was
originally founded on the name of Dr. Birkbeck, a
philanthropic physician, who started a Mechanics’
Institute —the first of its kind—and endowed it.
The doctor had William Cobbett, Jeremy Bentham
and other men of literary note for helpers. He
was an apostle of thrift and co-operation among
“respectable mechanics,” but he had nothing to
do with the Birkbeck Building Society. This, and
the bank to which it gave birth, seem to have
owed their former strength to the management of
one Ravenscroft.
* * * *
If the Oil Trust Ltd. completes its deal
with the Taranaki (M.L.) Petroleum - Go.-, present
shareholders will receive about 10s. cash per share,
plus an equal interest in the new co., the value of
the oil already won and stored, the recently-paid
Government subsidy of £2500, and a further £lO,OOO
in the event of oil being struck in No. 5 bore before
the completion of purchase. It is estimated that
the total cash payment per share will amount to
at least 12s. 6d. So far, however, only £2OOO has
been put up by the J. Bull co.
W.G.W.: Can’t advise as to market oper-
ations.
Every engineer in charge of factories and mills
should give close attention to the power wasted in
transmission of power. The Hyatt Flexible Roller
Bearings save 20 per cent, power and 75 per cent,
of oil, so one of the first duties is naturally for
engineers to direct their special attention to these
bearings and to car boxes for trucks. Hyatts are
ln continuous use ifi Cement Works, Ore Dressing
Mills, Factories, etc., in Australia. Bushings ol
flexible rollers may be applied to loose pulleys or
truck wheels, etc. Should engineers require further
details, they can apply to the Australian Agents,
W. & J. Lempriere, Melbourne; or E. W. Hurst-
house and Co., of Wellington, the agents in New
Zealand.*
S LRRODOR” Paint.—Specially manufactured fo<
preserving galvanised iron and steel. Unaffected by
sea air, sulphur fumes, cyanogen gases. Used on
Princes and Victoria Bridges, P. and O. and N.D.L
.£ a . n ?» rs ’ etc - Covers 1000 sq. yds. per cwt. WM.
ADAMS & CO., LTD., 175 Clarence Street, Sydney.*
Steam Users are invited to send for illustrated
catalogue of Engineering Specialities manufactured
by Bell’s United Asbestos Co., Ltd. Every descrip-
tion of asbestos goods, patent “Belfry” steam valves
and asbestos packed cocks and water gauges are
stocked at the depots of Bell’s Asbestos Austra-
lian Agency, Ltd., 315 Kent Street, Sydney, and
Beach Street, Fremantle; also at Victorian Agency,
W. H. Lamond & Co., 32S Flinders Street, Mel-
bourne.*
* * * *
• The most modern, simple and effective Vacuum
Slimes Table is the “Wilfley.” It is continuous, and
consists of a revolving drum which is partly’submerged
in a tank of slimes or material to be filtered. The
drum is covered with a filter cloth supported on
grooves on the drum, which are connected by means
of holes to the interior to allow the liquid to be
withdrawn. Through the trunnions at the ends of
the drum the vacuum pipe passes to the interior.
This pipe connects with the interior of the drum,
through which the liquid and air are withdrawn by
means of a vacuum pump. The filtered slime is re-
moved by a simple apparatus placed at or below the
level of the pulp in the tank. So that directly the
cake is removed, the surface of the filter cloth as it
revolves is immediately re-immersed in the pulp
ready to receive a fresh cake, thereby preventing the
sucking in of air, and consequent loss of vacuum
between the time the cake is removed and a fresh
one is forming. The residual liquid in the slime
cake is removed by distributing water over the sur-
face of the semi-dried cake. Owing to the fact that
the filter is circular in form, it will be seen that it
is eontihuous in operation, and has no complication
of valves to get out of order; furthermore, work is
being done continuously during the whole revolution
of the filter drum. The Austral Otis Engineering
Company, of South Melbourne, have the sole manu-
facturing rights of this filter.* [2
FOR SALE Cheap, Second-Hand, 15 Break H.P.
Tangye Gas Engine, in good order. Apply Manager,
Bulletin Office, 214 George Street, Sydney.*
Exract from The Insurance Observer, London
(4/11/1910). —Combined Assurance: “When the
rates quoted by The Colonial Mutual Life for en-
dowment assurance policies arc examined, and com-
pared with those generally charged for contracts of
a similar description, one’s belief in the future of
this enterprising departure becomes stronger. A
‘combined’ policy carrying the right to participate
in profits can be had for about the same amount as
has usually to be paid for a contract which does not
include Accident and Sickness benefits.”*
* * * *
WOOD PIPE is easy to lay and cheap to transport,
it is also cheap to buy, and is practically everlast-
ing. The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Balmain,
Sydney, will send catalogue on application.*
Mine Managers and Engineers. —Send your orders
for miners’ drill steel, octagon, hexagon and cruci-
form, solid or hollow; manganese and chrome steel
castings and forgings; all tool steels and engineers’
tools, pneumatic tools, machine tools, saw blades
and frames, etc., to Bolder Bros. & Co., Ltd., 1
Angel Place, Sydney, and at Melbourne.*
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
I- so, write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address, 163 King
Street, Sydney, and 9 Queen Street, Melbourne.* [1
* * * *
An economical proposition in belt conveying of
great interest to mining and mill managers, en-
gineers, etc. “Condor” Brand Registered Black Sur-
face Hardened Conveyor Belting—specially adapted
for the Australian climate —for conveying ore, sand,
metal, wheat, coal, etc. Less than half cost of
rubber belting, giving excellent results, Kalgoorlie,
Broken Hill, and Wallaroo. Write for price lists
and particulars to Sole Manufacturers, Hopkins Bros.
& Odium Prop., Ltd., Leicester Street, Carlton, Mel-
bourne.*
* * * *
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Grinnvade and Co. Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modern scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne.*
* * * *
F. DANVERS POWER, mining engineer, is pre-
pared to purchase approved MINING properties. Ad-
dress: National Mutual Chambers, Pi’tt and Bond
Streets, Sydney.*
Nobel’s Explosives are the best and most re-
liable. We are agents for the original makers,
Hamburg. Large stocks on hand. Contracts at low
rates. WM. ADAMS & CO., LTD., 175 Clarence
Street, Sydney.*
Mine managers when requiring air compressors,
either belt, steam, or electrically driven, should not
fail to inspect the Reavell Air Compressor, when they
will be impressed by its simplicity, compactness anil
portability. Owing to the working parts being en-
tirely enclosed it can be placed to work on any part
of the mine, either on the surface or underground.
The number of repeat orders which Messrs. Reavell
have received from the mining community proves
how greatly their compressor is appreciated. The
representatives for Australia are Messrs. Babcock
and Wilcox, Haymarket, Sydney.* [2
* * * »
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign Patents obtained.
Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Melbourne, and
Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write us for In-
ventors’ Guide.*
* * * »
Assayers, Mine Managers, and Prospectors
write to 11. B. Silberberg and Co., 443 Bourke
Street, Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining
requisites and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc
pulverisers to 200 mesh; hand sample grinders to
120 mesh; Ainsworth’s assay balances sensitive to
1/13000 grain; prospector’s balances to 1/1000
grain ; weight; pocket transits; gasoline combination
furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles ; chemicals; etc.*


tiiii'lmiuiw**
HEERING
HEERING’S
COPENHAGEN
CHERRY
BRANDY.
Est. JBJB.
World
fdsfd
Renowned,
Trade Mark.
STUHR’S
Finest Table Delicacies
Genuine Caviare.
Anchovies in Brine.
Peeled Shrimps.
Shrimps Extract.
Sold by all digit-class Provision Dealers.
C. F. STUHR & CO., Hamburg.
English Export Agent: W. Lovegrove. London,E.C.
A tea-room’s not half a bad
place for a girl if she’s got her
head screwed on right—you’d
be surprised if 1 told you how
many have married well or got
into business for themselves.
Until 1 took it on. myself 1 had
no notion what a lot of men
there are who regularly take
afternoon tea indeed, there’s
quite a number who take
morning tea, too —of course, it
must be the tea they come for,
al.hough 1 have heard it said
they never go for tea where
there are only men attendants,
but 1 put that down to the fact
that waiters don’t take the trouble
to see that tea is properly made
and daintily served.
The more 1 see of people the
more convinced 1 become that if
you want to give satisfaction
in a tea-room, and make your
customers come again and again,
you must give them good tea—
I’d give them Robur No. 1
Grade —they’d come to my tea-
room if l had one.
The Waitress.
QUALITY—BUCHANAN WHISKY
“BLACK & WHITE
A
WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, June 12, 1911.
My Dear Arini, —
The dowdy appearance of the average
Government or Admiralty House lady, when
she first scatters the benediction of her offi-
cial smile on Australian Society, is a ven-
erable fact in this State. Her smartened-
up and even dressy attention to mere
clothes, after a few months’ trek through
miles of tea, turkey, truffles and hand-
shakes, is looked for with confidence. There
are two reasons for the brown-grub chry-
salis stage. Outside a decadent, gambling,
drinking Smart Set in London, the British
matron is much given to good works, thick
boots, tweed suits and impossible hats. She
is firmly convinced they go together, and
only gets into mild effusions of evening dress
because the butler expects it, and the family
diamonds demand it.
Louise Haytet Birchall, a Canadian, ex-
ploits the theory that in England “the Col-
onies” are regarded as useful repositories
for old clothes. She mentions the effect
of a Toronto Spring race meeting on the
newly-arrived wife of a Governor-General’s
A.D.C. . A cablegram sent to a London
dressmaker after the races was right to the
point: “Send clothes. They dress here.”
The Sheffield Choir includes amongst its
travelling items a doctor, three nurses, five
financial secs., and nine journalists. Six
baggage-men, laid on to the Voices for pur-
poses of rapid transit, are responsible
for the right licking of the 1500-odd lug-
gage labels. Dr. Charles Ilarriss has or-
ganised more than part-singing. He has
been a Napoleon amongst dress trunks.
“One large trunk and a hand-bag. Nothing
more.” That is his decree. “Not even one
hat-box —one teeny-weeny hat-box? They’re
getting smaller—sometimes,” murmurs the
newly-acquired Voice (feminine). “No-
thing more,” says the Head. Personally, I
don’t think women take a beating on the
luggage question without putting up some
secret line of defence. The cardboard box
the brown-paper parcel, the slender suit-
case —these things may have happened.
Anyhow, I’d like to meet the girl who has
travelled across this planet without adding
more than luggage labels to her home-packed
lingerie.
Antonia Dolores, advertised for weeks as
the star attraction of the Hospice Concert,
sent her sympathy. H. N. Southwell
handed over this valuable tribute to “the
noble charity” from the Town Hall plat-
form. The audience received it in chilly
silence. Mrs. Slapoffski earned the grati-
tude of a worried committee by bringing
her voice along at the final hour. Her
charming rendering of “The Kerry Dance”
was one of the best reasons for the presence
of a big audience.
Walter Kirby kept his word to the Hos-
pice committee under considerable stress;
and his quick trip from Melbourne to
Sydney and back again, in order to sing
for .charity, will be remembered here with
enthusiasm. Mr. Kirby’s tenor was deli-
cately served up in a flute-like warble that
meandered through “The Poets’ Song” (La
Boheme) with artistic restraint. The
typical tenor generally goes to the heads of
schoolgirl admirers when he tunes up in
ballads; and “Life,” “The Bells of Shan-
non,” and “After Long Years” evoked
storms of applause from the more emotional
and eternal feminine. Mr. Kirby’s waist
has increased its girth in the last few
years. A fat tenor is a fatality, and this
one will have to defer putting on more
weight—his present circumference being just
inside the danger line —till he becomes a
city magnate or a landed proprietor.
The “atmosphere” of the Hospice Con-
cert was charged with unrest. The ill-
ness of Mrs. Alex. Gordon, and the non-ap-
pearance of Dolores, contributed to a pas-
sionate desire in unexpected places to get
up and walk about. There was confusion
over some of the tickets. This spurred
the restless into treating the concert as a
blend of promenade and conversazione.
People walked into the hall at any old
time, half-past eight, nine o’clock. They
walked out in the same casual way. The
front seats were more permanent.
Lady Dudley’s ermine cloak was a cause
for mild envy on an Arctic night. Mrs.
Anthony Hordern’s wrap—in some warm
shade of rose—with a white fluff of os-
trich feathers up to her ears, was another
desirable-looking garment.
The Hospice is likely to benefit by the
concert to the clink of about 500 sover-
eigns.
The late grazier Wills-Alien left £277,000,
chiefly to his three sons, though there are
bequests to his wife and his two daughters.
The Wesleyan Church at Gunnedah has also
come into a bequest of £25 a year, and isn’t
likely to break out in riotous extravagance
in consequence. Agnes Marion, one of the
daughters, who gets £15,000 for her share
in the big Gunnible sheep-walk, is Mrs.
Jack Antill.
The National Council of Women, which
pondered over affairs of State in the Patri-
otic Club room last week, had its calm ruf-
fled by a few catspaws of debate. While
the lady-president murmured “I am the pre-
sident,” the battle of the Girl Scouts skir-
mished round the chair. The Girl Scouts
want to’ be folded under the wing of the
National Council. The Peace Society, in the
person of one of its members, sniffed gun-
powder, and objected to the G.S. as a mili-
tary body! It was mentioned in apology
that the word “Scout” had been dissolved
into “Aid.” The meeting parted down the
middle for about five minutes. “That the
Girl Aids be affiliated,” -was finally carried.
But the Peace Society member remained bel-
ligerent to the last gasp.
Going to scrape some snow off Koscius-
ko’s bald old head this month are Mr. R. H.
Dangar (Whittingham) and party, Mr. L.
C. Russell Jones, Mr. and Mrs. (Public
Service Board) Wilshire, Messrs. A. and
F. Mann, of this town, and Mrs. Bellson,
from Coolac, in the Cabbage Patch. When
this season’s snow began to fall at the icy
sanatorium, there w r ere already five inter-
state visitors at the hospice, including one
woman—Mrs. Yon Rieben, of Adelaide. So
they—or the male section of the party, at
any rate —had unexpected ski-ing in May.
A Kosciusko breakfast party can get as
much mental stimulant in the controversy
that rages round the word “ski” as any
Bacon Society ever dug out of Shakspeare.
Richardson, an English expert who learned
to skip the ice gutters in Norway, says
that “she” is the Norwegian way. But
the Swedes sound the k hard, and the aver-
age British and American sports are falling
into line.
The girl who skis must look to her boots
and skirts. Anything that comes down
much past the knee gives the girl a return
journey to the ice-fringed hostelry, in be-
draggled drapery that excites mirthful ci'iti-
cism from the non-ski lady who is warming
her neat hose before a fire. She needs
“gum” or rubber boots to reach to just below
the knee, and, over her ordinary stockings,
a pair of golf hose. These, worn under
the boots, turn over their tops, and keep out
the snow. A Sydney girl who didn’t know
the golf-top dodge, got her boots full of soft
powdery snow the other day. She toppled
over and kicked like an unbroken colt. Then
some strong-minded relative hauled her up
and emptied her boots. A soft woollen
bonnet and a golf jersey complete the kit.
Remember Amelia Bloomer, and wear no
petticoats under your short ski-skirt.
Two early-Australian families were recent-
ly united by a wedding ring at All Saints’,
Sutton Forest (N.S W ' mu,, hr : d-' s a
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Ettie de Mestre,
of (jiover Hill. Fitty years ago. de Aiesire
was a leading figure on the Australian turf,
and the “all black” often met the judge’s eye
first. He owned Archer, winner of the first
Melbourne Cup (1861-62). The bridegroom,
Philip A. Badgery, son of the John A.
Badgerys, also comes from ancient inhabi-
tants. James Badgery, the pioneer, signed
the requisition to Johnston to depose Bligh.
Prosper de Mestre, the bride’s grandfather,
was an American merchant who settled in
this town before it grew skyscrapers, about
a century ago.
Mrs. Barker, who died at Maryland home-
stead the other day, aged 91, was, until her
last illness, a hale old lady who had always
kept up a brisk interest in the vrorld’s work
and play. Maryland estate, which be-
longs to the late Mrs. Barker’s only
son, is a beauty place six miles or
thereabouts from Cobbitty. In the
earlier days, I fancy it was only divided
by a fence from the original Hassall
mileage in those parts. The home-
stead stands on a high green knoll, and
overlooks a magnificent stretch of park-like
land in which the native trees have been
encouraged to grow in stately groves, instead
of being axed into firewood.
_ Miss Scrutton, 8.A., who has been a be-
nign purple rosette, or something of conse-
quence, in the Girls’ Realm, is engaged to
solicitor Brimacombe, of Yass.
H. B. Irving has several claims to wear
a lion’s mane. He crossed the Bar and his
legal teeth got a good grip of criminology—
which Victor Hugo calls “the third sub-
stage, the grave of the depths.” And he
never saw his father play Hamlet. Ir-
ving’s worried expression, in his post-card
portraits, may have grown into a habit dur-
ing his inky digressions into tragic-legal
knots.
Frank Tyars, who is one of the Irving
company, holds a theatrical time-record. He
had one of the longest engagements the
mummer’s craft has ever mentioned in cold
ink —so far as I can scratch out dates in
ancient stage dust. Tyars spent 25 years
under the management of Sir Henry Irving.
He’d be still doing high-class work with his
old chief, if Death hadn’t rung down the
curtain.
Mrs. Gordon Wesche, who habitually ren-
dered first-aid at Lady Poore’s tea-parties,
has brought back her bright remarks and
fascinating frocks from foreign parts.
Mrs. Norman Cohen, of Larbert, Mac-
leay-street, who died last week, was a daugh-
ter of Louis Woolfe Levy, of munificent
memory. Mrs. Cohen was one of the most
charitable women in Sydney, but her bene-
factions seldom met the public eye. A rich
woman, she gave with both hands, and
jumped on advertisement with both feet.
Of the late Mr. Levy—whose memorial
fountain trickles in Botanic Gardens—the
George Dibbs cheque remains as an un-
common witness to the old knight’s tough
mental fibre. When Dibbs got into a libel
broil that gave him the option of a heavy
fine, Mr. Levy sent him a cheque for £lOOO
as a token of solid sympathy. Big George
stuck to his own opinion, and preferred to
go to gaol. He never cashed the cheque,
but had it framed—a curious episode that
leaves a pleasant taste in the mouth.
Prof. David is going to lift up his voice
in the Town Hall on the 30th inst. Maw-
son’s coming trip to Antarctic blizzards is
the cause. " Prof. David, by the way, was
one of the best advertisements for seal-
blubber and candle-ends as frame food that
the South Pole ever returned to an effete
civilisation. He came back from the
Great Freeze rosy and plump, with 20 years
knocked off his looks. This juvenile rally
has passed, but the memory of it suggests a
new and expensive method of fighting time.
In the days of aerial passenger ships, beauty
specialists may run summer-season Polar
shops for the neurotic rich. Illuminations
could be supplied by that well-known scenic
artist, Aurora Australis.
“Sunny Australia,” by Archibald Mar-
shall, is a glowing postscript to the writer’s
rose-tinted impressions of this continent
printed first in the Daily Mail. Being the
accredited rep. of a considerable Fogland
paper, the alleged Best People here served
up the fatted fowl and other farm-yard
produce for his benefit. Marshall, being-
grateful for many expensive dinners, men-
tions them with effusion. As thus: —
Mr. (Arthur) Allen is a prince amongst enter-
tainers. ... I find myself again in Sydney and
under Mr. Arthur Allen’s ciceroneship. This time it
was a children’s party, to which he motored me, at
Miss Walker’s beautiful house on the Parramatta
River. . . . My next experience was an interesting
and enjoyable one—a three days’ motor trip with
Mr. and Mrs. Wade down the coast. . . .
Mr. Adrian Knox, the woolly Manifolds
(Vic.), Mr. R. G. Ramsay (Darling Downs)
and other magnates of the Fat Purse are
alluded to with a grovel which recalls the
worst prostrations of old Grub-street at
the gouty feet of its titled “patrons.”
Julian Ashton throws in a few fighting
remarks (after provocation) concerning the
Royal Academy and other hide-bound insti-
tutions. He also chortles at intervals over
Minister for Education Beeby’s scheme for
housing pictures on show in this city. “The
fact is, we’ve been trying in a new country
to follow the conservative traditions that
built up the Royal xlcaderny—a method that
has been proved a failure. There are 40
Academicians elected for life —for life, re-
member. There’s a second body of 40 Associ-
ates. When a Royal Academician dies he gives
an Associate a chance; it’s one chance in
40. Then the elected Associate is frozen
into an Academician till Death thaws him
out. We were moving backwards towards
those traditions here, till Mr. Beeby saw
the point. He’s the first Minister who has
seen the point. How do I know? Well,
I’ve been climbing the Public Instruction
stairs for 15 years on deputations, so I ought
to know something about the official mind
in its relation to the artist.”
“Mist on the Creek,” by the way, exhibited
recently in the Royal Academy by Julian
Ashton, was shown here a few months ago.
It represents a water streak near Barraba,
with the blue mist of early morning making
blurred reflections under a fringe of foliage.
“It’s 30 years since I sent anything to
them,” says he, “so I thought I’d feel if
they were still in the same place—the Royal
Academicians, I mean. Before coming to
Australia I was a frequent exhibitor.”
Agnes Murphy, who is still going in front
of perambulating voices, writes to say she is
now advance press-agent for the Quinlan
Opera Co., which may strike this continent
within the next year or so. There seems
to have been a knot in its arrangements
somewhere, for May 25, 1911, was recorded
as the date of its first appearance in Mel-
bourne, with Lalla Miranda in “Tales of
Hoffman.”
According to the cables, the Quinlans
won’t tour Australia till 1912. The coming
of Melba and her stars has probably put the
original excursion out of joint.
Julia Caroli, just annexed by the Quinlan
co., is a good-looking Sydney girl, known
here as Julia Davis. She owned one of a
batch of voices that went to Europe for the
benefit of their trills five or six years ago.
Julia was blessed with two fine qualities—
ambition and unlimited capacity for work. “If
I fail, I’ll never come back to my own coun-
try,” she said to a wet-eyed farewell gather-
ing of girl friends, armed with flowers and
chocolate boxes. Julia had the fire of a
dramatic temperament. As the polished pro-
duct of study and experience, she ought to
carry weight in opera.
From a wandering Gentile, who was at
Monte Carlo some weeks ago, a dressy item
drops in. She says “the two smartest wo-
men in that centre of French models were
the Princess Tasca di Cuto, sister-in-law of
the unfortunate Italian lady-in-waiting to
the Queen of Italy, murdered by a black-
mailing gang; and Rupert Clarke’s wife.
The Italian woman, very girlish-looking and
unconventional, was one of the loveliest
visions I’ve ever seen, and her gambling was
the sensation of Monte Carlo —or rather the
manner of it. She lost magnificently, with-
out showing the slightest quiver of excite-
ment, and in one week she won £30,000
with apparent indifference.”
Mary Gaunt (Mrs. Lindsay Miller) re-
cently wrote a long letter to London Morn-
ing Post from some address in West Africa.
Mary was then assimilating local atmo-
sphere for another mahogany-tinted novel.
She was on the trail of the heathen ghost,
and found unexpected adventures in ancient,
haunted forts, dating back to the fifteenth
century. In one of these, now used for
the mundane purpose of a Custom House,
she hopes to locate the skeleton of a new
sensation.
In “The Uncounted Cost” Mary Gaunt
used West African jungles to mend the
officially-broken reputation of a naval offi-
cer. The ston' lacks the manly grip of
Beatrice Grimshaw when she handles tropic
scenery, equatorial emotions, and other
mosquito-bitten effects, but it gave a prom-
ise of stronger stuff to follow. It deserves
a certificate of merit, however, for making
the hero meet his misfortunes with “an
ugly, intellectual face.” Adonis, as the
leading gentleman in a woman’s novel,
seems to be taking a well-earned rest. For
this relief, the Young Person ought to thank
her twentieth-century stars. The Greek-
god style of male architecture, hewed out
of frozen printers’ ink by Ouida’s imitators,
once incited the juvenile feminine nose to
turn up at Common Clay, clad in a sad-
colored sac suit.
An acquaintance who had his thatch
cropped on May 31, which threatened to be
the last day of the sixpenny hair-cut in
this city, says that barrow’-loads of hair
were scooped up by the barber’s mate.
Even the long-haired fraternity hurried off
to have their hyacinthine—or grease-mat —
locks lopped at the ends. The excitement
has, however, tamed down, for the sixpenny
crop is dying hard, and the anticipated
boom in the pudding-basin cut hasn’t yet hit
Suburbia. So the really useful girl still
has time to study hair carving in the home,
before she gets into her orange-blossom
finery.
The bones of the new Society Salon, de-
signed to decorate the mental outlook of the
Best Dressed, and lend a trimming to bald
conversation, are getting a fleshy appear-
ance. Clarinda, who is one of the re-
cently-elected 50 members, tells me that if
she stops away from higher-culture meet-
ings three times running, she’ll be cut off
into outer darkness, and asked to resign.
Many other velvet gowns are yearning, on
the doorstep of Culture, to take the place
now occupied by Clarinda’s amethyst
silhouette. Prof. MacCallum is mentioned as
lending first aid. Prof. Woodhouse, who
is steeped in B.C. learning, may be per-
suaded to lend a Greek tombstone, from
the Fisher Library, if the Salon ever
breathes its last in a dead language.
As I write, the Society of Sanitary La-
dies, who nobly poke inquiring noses into
drains, dust-heaps, and other microbe tene-
ments, are distributing the results of their
sprint for hygiene at a Health Society’s
winter meet. Dr. Zlotkowski is starred to
address the gathering on the evergreen topic
of ventilation. He puts an Oriental drape
on the open window, and calls it “New
Air for Old.”
Yours, with a broad nib,
VANDORIAN.


:i\ i II ■» Ilf ifHßUitofm
mm
am
WMljf
if-
Sum m l fifl
S'*"
VOSS
yfj}/*,
Ml
/m&M
■s 3
w
i#
w ■
i\
mi %.<
i h
wpjsai
iilll
I -
M .
J&iM'
§£ >'
mm
m
m| ; $ S
HI ? >
.&2r'£y££§:l
m\
jm
m
%wxsmd%
MM ssm ,a#&
VX
t
rts*
mmmm
f
Wi.
v
wasa
Pf
mi
*rk
3mce3
N
51 ? s
jgfflßP*f£SpBs«~ .r3g»'
aPPISP?* v ~
<m
m
■•'■■■
SsSsS
{r.’K'£.r£
tea
fiiSS
!
fewstf
r^ 1
ss*
3*
? J;
V?
i -T’o£v.„..-V
■' !Sf
-*-- -»#s*&?:<
K't - #* Ui
ml'; M'*
:§m&
m
■&m
M «
H
SSMIf
to
&OWW®*
tjvSft
,-r' ..r
■V'>;^
j^Sßpgp
«P-
-• H t{. £
KSetiWXrS
HjissaS
*v>Si)ft:<s3 , Vx
.'.■•sfttfiv
kiMM
fa®
sSi»> :
Hfflffffi
MSI mm
\ •"«
•y**^*- 1
Kw
II
'-T-i*
Mi
»;;'£«'
Mmimm
Mi l ;
>
i-'s-v'-.ri
SSI
»«SI
'•'•u t >.'«lf i --. .* _■ /">
sp*£^V
?BV
ia
S<S:
ißip®
r:>S
;-tv.v
:-Sv,
: i e-xxtipXZga&f’W*
■sm
' l .‘i . • j£- - ;
'f 's&§£
i
S>;'
~ :,X»?V • > •' *
ii.«£Si
S.i ~«.-v...*.^
■fSv
. £<*¥»fr\. " :•'.% H fMrUti
f.-i-*? V; i-Sfri:®
;; f: r -.
y*<4
nil
II
V-'fv.v
SS
SSH
SSBj
39M
s^.
aipi
-f*. '•?'-
-*-•;
; - ; v
Wl*
ti 2&
sws
m
m
lll^
?WW!
■:
-
W&i
£';'- .i
itss&S
•■ jnffj
COBRA, 15he Floor Polish, is as
g'ood as COBRA, Sfte Boot Polish.
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Fco,
With the cat
And dog for crew
’Neath the tree-fern’s
Nodding frond
Floats upon
The Polish Pond.
Chunder thinks
It’s very fine
Just to fish v/ith
Rod and line
While the cat
Keeps a look out
For a nice, big,
Juicy trout.


NEWS FROM SEA LAKE, VIC.
We are indebted to Mr. Dan O’Connor for the fol-
lowing letter: “Last winter my son arid I were at-
tacked with dreadful colds. My boy was so bad he
could not attend school. I decided to give Cham-
berlain’s Cough Remedy a trial, and it was highly
successful. My cold was cured in one night, and I
feel mighty grateful to know that such a Cough
Remedy as Chamberlain’s can be purchased at such
a reasonable price.*
“SORELLE.”
The MISSES CLAPP
will be at 11 GREENKNOYVE AVENUE,
POTT’S POINT, SYDNEY, on the 3rd of
JUDY, and will show their
New Paris Models and Spring Materials.
tw.
HP
c
1
&
St
WK
-T
!ti
Dunlop
Rubber
Heels
for
Comfort
and Wear.
Walk on Soft Rubber
It’s far more comfortable, besides
being cheaper, than on hard
leather heels that rack and jar
the nerves. To get the BEST
RESULTS specify “DUNLOP”,
brand. TRY THEM I
_ ALL BOOT SKOPB.
RUBBER HEELS
DUNLOP
RU3BER CO.
ARSu*'
•nd NX.
w-
A
Once
Use a
Dunlop
Tennis
Ball
and
You
Will
Use
No
Other.
DUNLOP
TENNIS
BALLS
being freshly made and free
from perish, ensure you satis*
faction that is not obtainable
from the imported article.
Just try a “Dunlop’* Ball
and note the difference, i
Obtainable all leading Sports Depots
DUNLOP RUBBER CO. all Stain aaJ Ni J
HAYWARD’S
Costumes 8 Riding Habits
ere Known All Over Australia.
WRITE OR CALL FOR
CATALOGUE OF NEW FASHIONS.
323 George Street, Sydney
Opp.
PaUßff's.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melboubne, June 12, 1911.
My Dear Yarbie, —
Governor Fuller, on his lirst visit to
Flemington, elected to rail it home with his
secretary. The tirst train after the races
is a luxurious one, and the early homing
birds struggle for it like a lot of bees. His
Ex., with his secretary, strolled leisurely
toward the platform; whereupon the string
of cars rolled softly out of the station, under
his astonished nose. It is a terrible thing to
see a common train escape from a Governor
who has neglected to get a station-master
to hold it back for him.
His new-Ex. Fuller, making a speech the
other day, referred to “her Ladyship.” The
departed Carmichael never made that mis-
take ; with him it was always “my wife.” If
the newcomer persists in pushing his family’s
“superiority” on Victoria, an infuriated
populace will presently begin to rake up
tales concerning Fuller’s brewery-forebears,
and to murmur, “Beer will tell!”
Mayoress Davey is trying to induce the
masculine committee of the Bush Nursing
Scheme to organise some more raffles. The
lady made £2017 11s. 3d. by her exer-
tions for the City of Melbourne stall, and is
justly proud of the achievement. The
raffled motor accounted for a big slice of the
total—for so much of it, indeed, that she
longs to repeat the gamble. General Public
will be glad if she gets her way. A few
more raffles in the name of Charity, and
such a popular demand may set in for the
legalisation of the Tote that Judkins may
be driven into the Yarra.
Two early-June marryings brought the
Naicest to church again before they had
half recovered from the cake and confetti
of May. Squatter Leslie Macpherson, of
Hamilton, married Maud McCaughey,
daughter of the late David McCaughey, one
of the best-known sheep-men of the Murray.
The knot-tying was done in the Toorak
Scotchbyteriau Church, and the breakfast
and reception part was got through at
Manningham, the Fisken mansion. (The
bride’s mother is now Mrs. John Fisken.) The
bride, who is a notable smart dresser, was
simply gowned in chiffon satin made in
clinging Empire style, weighted at the foot
with heavy pearl embroidery. Dorothv
McCaughey and Nancy Falconer, in deep
cream and gold—an effective contrast to the
bride’s white —were the two bridesmaids.
Mrs. John Fisken wore a mystery of veiling-
in black and blue over blue. (It reads rather
like a bad bruise, but it looked dashing.)
Mrs. Peter Macpherson wore black satin and
carried a bouquet of violets. Mrs. Alan,
of the Macpherson clan, was in grey. All
the woolly Toorakians swelled the guest-
list; the Chirnsides and Armytages, Mur-
rays and Emmertons, Staughtons and Bowes-
Kellys, strolled and fluffed in the well-
dressed crowd.
The other June wedding happened at St.
Peter’s, on Eastern Hill, with the Rev. E.
S. Hughes as blesser-in-chief. Alice Mil-
ler, daughter of Charles Miller, of St.
Kilda, was the bride, and Edgar Julian
Bingley, of Highgate, London, the groom.
The wedding party and a regiment or two
of guests later gathered in the Masonic
Hall, where the breakfast waited. The
bride’s going-away dress was of grey cloth,
with hat and furs to match.
Old Samuel Curtis Chandler, the ex-city
coroner who died the other day, was reck-
oned the most confirmed Club-man in Mel-
bourne. There is a popular idea that the
Club-man is a jovial dog; as a matter of
fact, he usually becomes, in course of time,
a lonely, narrow old person, with few
friends and (sometimes) fewer enemies.
Chandler was that sort; and in his capa-
city as city coroner he finally gave people the
impression that he was really appointed to
sit on the living instead of the dead. He
had been a continuous inmate of the Mel-
bourne Club since 1859, the year it was
built.
A friend writing from Paris says that
Melbourne and Sydney girls are not far be-
hind the latest fashions —not more than a
sten and a skip, anyhow. The newest things
in the place where fashions are made are the
bag and the fountain aigrette. In Paris
the bags hang from the shoulders by long
cords, which allow the big, flat Hussar
things to swing above the wearer’s ankles.
They are gorgeously embroidered, and as
capacious as pillow cases. The aigrettes
start straight into the air from the squashed-
down hats like a jet from a fountain, and
then fall more or less gracefully when they
can’t hold themselves up any longer.
The two girl members of Sousa’s company
strike a new dressing note so far as Aus-
tralia is concerned, by wearing evening dress
for matinees. It must be a strictly Ameri-
can custom, like the wearing of jewellery
in the morning. On Saturday afternoon
the songstress appeared in a low-cut pink
frock, the little violin girl dressed in the
same skimpy style, but for pink substituted
white and shivers. It is not the right sort
of gear for a bleak afternoon in a building
without special heating arrangements.
The shrill incessant yapping of dogs, and
the whoops of roosters, made the Exhibition
resound last week. Doggy women, who would be
prostrated with nerves after any ordinary
clatter, spend nearly all day there, fondling
their own barking machines, and rushing
round with food and water for the dears.
The shrillest and most irritating yap was
that of the toy Yorkshire terrier. The or-
dinary-sized lorkshires are small enough;
but in “toys” the breed dwindles to an ab-
surd size. They are really only fit for man-
tel ornaments. Mrs. Captain \vaters (Enid
Whiting of your State) carried off two
prizes for her Pomeranians, small pampered
animals with carefully brushed hair. Mrs.
Nicholls’ French poodles—fearfully stagey
animals who pose and dance—took all avail-
able Firsts in their class. Two baby French
poodles in a basinette looked like white rats.
Bulldogs are becoming great favorites. At
this show there was a majestic row of glow-
ering beauties headed by Charlie Iredale’s
newest importation, a big, bandy, brindle
that sat with its flat nose in .the air, and
scorned to notice his Australian-bred neigh-
bors. The great Danes yowled dismally at
the end of their chains. The only quiet
occupants of the Big Barn were the cats,
which drowsed safely and comfortably be-
hind bars, on velvet pillows. One full-
grown cat was priced at £lOO, and
a Chinchilla kitten, that had just about
got its eyes open, offered to purr on your
hearth for £lO odd. The Permanent Pic-
tures, at the other end of the building,
screened themselves off during the noisy
invasion and admitted their patrons by the
side door.
An Italian person with furious mous-
tachios, pointed beard, and a musical name,
has arrived to rehearse the chorus for
Melba’s opera season. Just at present Her
Majesty’s is full of high C’s and temper.
Mrs. Brough got a splendid reception
from a big warm house at the Princess’s on
Saturday. The playgoers wanted badly to
hug her, but had to try to express their
sentiments in a perfect cataract of applause.
Outside the theatre a string of carriages,
with fat horses and sedate coachmen, indi-
cated that the best old-fashioned families
were helping in the welcome. Old Brough
Co. lovers do not as a rule rush with the
first nighters; but on Saturday they were
present in force.
Eizette Parkes, as Honora, otherwise No-
body’s Daughter, is a sweet ingenue. J. C.
Williamson has her engaged for two years,
and is watching her work with a paternal
eye. She is only “lent” to this company
for this season.
During the second act, in among the pro-
blems and sighs and tears of the play, the
stage suddenly becomes a fascinating “show-
room.” When Mrs. Brough begins to “dress”
her daughter—who isn’t supposed to be any-
thing of the kind —the stage fills with boxes
of hats, chiffon, coats and other lovely things.
All the women in the audience hurriedly dry
their tears to see more clearly.
Mrs. Brough, as Mrs. Frampton, remarks
at one time, “A woman who always speaks
the truth is a firebrand in any house.” Which
is very modern Scripture, indeed.
Dr. Charles Harriss, of the Sheffield Choir,
dashed through Melbourne this week. He
calculates that he has travelled 30,000 miles
in the last four months; and, of course, you
can’t linger if you want to put up records
like that. He is a Canadian, and has a
charming Canadian wife. She does not join
in the busy sprints, but stays in their Ottawa
home and reads the accounts of hubby’s
successes.
The Melba Theatre, in Bourke-street, re-
presents the first Victorian attempt at the
American idea of almost perpetual pictures.
There are always a number of street-weary
people who would willingly pay six-
pence or thruppence just for a comfortable
seat. This theatre has got ’em. All day
long there are crowds waiting for a seat —
which means that another theatre will fol-
low this venture. No standing or over-
crowding is allowed indoors. For three-
pence you get a cushion chair and a carpet.
For sixpence you are welcomed to some-
thing a trifle more luxurious. A Wedgwood
blue-leather lounge is added for the benefit
of the feminine time-killer or picture goer.
An attendant to care for hats, and plate-
glass for the powder puff—all by way of
kindness, and for sixpence! The firm is
plumping for local industry, too, and is mak-
ing many of its own films.
It is plain cruelty for a band to play brisk
two-steps to a cold-footed crowd which hasn’t
room to move its knees and elbows, much
less get up and prance about. One chill
afternoon recently, I went to the Exhibition
and sat still while John Madden, C.J.,
handed certificates and medallions to sev-
eral hundred First Aiders of the St. John
Ambulance Association, who then started to
parcel up hired small boys in nice warm
bandages. _ It was a bitter day; the rain
rattled viciously on the high, remote roof,
and the wind —which hadn’t been supplied
with a ticket —rushed round and round the
building until it found unguarded doors and
crevices, when it poured itself in as little
sighing draughts. The bandaging went
steadily on, and the audience got colder and
colder. Then, when all seemed to be ice,
and the entry of a drove of Polar bears
would have surpi'ised no one, the band start-
ed to play tripping dance music! A two-
step is no sort of First Aid for three solid
acres of cold feet.
In this year of the hobble and the harem,
croquet—the game our grandmothers played
in crinolines, pork-pie hats and prunella
boots—has “come in” again. Every sub-
urb runs a club or two, and women with
polished mallets over their shoulders hurry
to one another’s lawns, to make sport-his-
tory repeat itself. In the trains the con-
versation is mostly of these polite tourna-
ments, and how much beter it is than sit-
ting inside and waiting for pa to come home
cold and savage from the office. The up-
to-date matron does not squander the long,
chill afternoons delving into the stocking-
basket, and shaking her head mournfully at
the gas bill; instead she grabs some sort
of sporting implement and proceeds to
knock chips off her neighbor’s conceit. The
days when mother minded the house, kept
the kettle boiling and the cat purring have
gone—-for ever?
There was joy in Paradise and jubilation
in the vestibule of the St. Kilda Theatre
last week. For W. G. Lincoln is the mana-
ger of both those picture places, and his
wife and offspring had a keen financial in-
terest in the Missing Will. , The lost docu-
mentffiad been so much in his mind that
Mr. Lincoln’s cronies had lately been diffi-
dent about calling him Will or Willie lest
they might awake painful reflections. It
was Mrs. Alf Joseph’s will that vanished so
mysteriously. The executors produced a
draft copy, and reckoned that it would do,
whilst the next-of-kin (who had all been
provided for in the draft) claimed that Mrs.
Joseph had died intestate. The relatives
didn’t shine brilliantly in the wrangle. It
seems that Mrs. Willie Lincoln (the
“Pearlie” of the law-case) was chief legatee
under the missing will, but even so there
was £27,000 to be scattered amongst the
others. Now “Pearlie,” who was brought
up by Mrs. Joseph as her youngest sister,
was not a sister, but an adopted daughter.
Therefore she could not have shared in a
division of the estate if Mrs. Joseph had
died intestate, though she had ever been
the apple of the poor lady’s eye. From
this injustice she was saved by a learned
Judge, who decided that the draft of the will
was good enough to swear by.
A forgotten circumstance, which made
some sectarian stir in its day, was revived
by the evidence in the missing will case.
Mrs. Joseph was perhaps the first, if not the
only, Gentile who ever got converted to
Judaism in Bendigo. Bendigo had a lot
to say about it when Alf. Joseph, the book-
maKer, persuaded his bride-elect —Miss Ire-
land —to go to synagogue and become a
child of Israel. The mining city approved
of the Society for the Conversion of Jews
to Christianity, but the idea of Israeliting
a Christian was denounced as “scanda-
lous.” A Methodist parson of the period is
said to have even called it “an insult to the
Most High,” and his flock joined him in
offering the' Most High an apologetic
prayer.
Celia Gliiloni, who is now Mrs. Ronald
McPherson beyond the stage door, is going
touring with the Wykeham (late Ward)
Comedy Co., while her stalwart husband is
exploring in the north of this continent. He
joins Captain Barclay in his wanderings on
behalf of the Federal Government.
A grown-up Irma Caron, daughter of J.
C. Williamson’s late conductor Leon Caron,
has come back to these shores, bringing a
valuable voice with her. The girl we used
to know as a youngster has any amount of
ambition, too, so we will probably hear of
her later on.
Mrs. Watt and daughter Bonnie are two
of the Australians who “took in” Monte
Carlo during the northward half of the Cor-
onation jaunt. How many Australians dear
old Monte has taken in, in return, is not
known.
A heavily-powdered matron, whose motor
cuts up the carriage-drives of the most ex-
clusive people, quotes with great satisfaction
a speech made recently by an American
magistrate to a wife-deserter who pleaded
in extenuation that his wife had “painted like
a Red Indian”: “Cultivate a taste for the
artistic. The art of facial decoration is
one of the most necessary for the preserva-
tion of the beauty of the female sex. It
should not become a lost art. It is the one
thing that keeps a woman young and d
comfort to her husband, who grows old too
quickly through modern business pressure.
The rouge, the chamois, the powder-puff
are absolutely necessary to the happiness of
every woman.” Gallery talk, of course !
The same man would probably raise a large
crop of trouble if he found his wife piling
oatmeal on her nose on a cold day.
Two women motorists have been hauled
up recently by the Law to face the victims
of their chariot wheels. A chorus of protest
has gone up from the general public against
the licensing of women drivers. I don’t
think it is justified. The real fact of the
matter is that, after a smash, men mostly
put on a sprint and drive furiously away;
but women, being tender, sympathetic crea-
tures, stay to soothe the victim and bind
up his wounds, and so get caught by the
awful official who transpires after the tell-
tale crowd has gathered round. Anyhow, two
delinquents out of the crowd of hatpinned
“shovers” is not very alarming if you look
at the matter calmly from the kerb.
Toorak is finding it economical to do with-
out the hired-man “shover.” The other
night I saw a fine girl, hatless and in a
motor coat and muffler, confidently driv-
ing a big empty car round the busy corner
away from Her Majesty’s. She had, ap-
parently, driven Papa and Mamma and the
rest of the family in to their “Miss Gibbs”
stalls, and was off home for a comfy read
by the fire. The professional male has to
be approached with deference and coaxed.
Then, again, between 8 o’clock and 11, there
is a gap of time, packed full probably with
wasted petrol, dark ladies and other risks.
At a girls’ tea-party given on George
V.’s birthday in a loyal subbub, the chief
items on the menu were violet sandwiches.
But violet is a mourning color. Red ger-
anium sandwiches would have sounded bet-
ter. It doesn’t matter how these things
taste.
From my Adelaide correspondent:—
Damp, dull and dreary! Still we did have two
fine days for the A.R.C. meeting; but on the morn-
ing of Cup Day we just got out any old thing,
pulled on goloshes (when we had them, which wasn’t
always), and slopped out in -macintoshes. We
thought that at least in such circumstances we might
have fluked a big Tote dividend ; but there were no
violent surprises—unless one overlooks the trickle of
water from a strange person’s umbrella that was
liable to burst down one’s back at" any moment. Of
course there were furs. If it hadn’t been for new
furs, dozens of women who did go would have stayed
at home and cleaned out the stocking-mending
basket.
Fred Porter and a Cudmore girl—one of the Mur-
ray Cudmores —were married at Walkerville on a
sunny afternoon last week. The Cudmores are great
growers of sheep, and wool was all over the proceed-
ings—fine, fat, yolkv wool represented by Croziers
and Duncans and Duncan-Rugheses and Murrays.
Years and years ago the Cudmore family held “the
Pinnaroo desert.” It was just sand and mallee ; and
part of it, at any rate, was abandoned as quite value-
less. To-day the Pinnaroo is one of the richest of
the new wheat-producing districts of the State ; and
enterprising city men, like A. .T. Roberts, of the
Stock Exchange, have their “little places” there, to
which they retire when the bulls and bears have been
worrying them over-much.
Among the half-dozen mine-managing magnates
° f Broken Hill, the one confirmed bachelor was
of v°A Y , ears “*° ** went
wise verv friendly communffy Now word^mes^om
Sydney that he was married there one dav last
Like almost every “big man” in Broken Hill minine
to-day Stanley-Low is an Australian. His father
, w ? s 6ft.-something Victorian reverend, who chap
f
citizens, Edwin T. Smith, whose
day, after two years of verv indifferent health fol
lowing on a carriage accident. The deceased ’ladv
who was five times Mayoress of the city, was the
P °P ular ,. E T ’, S a , s , econtl
escaDctf * r «, had Lhldle . v
< l) ca P> *. 10m a motor accident than our Admiral-
Gov. s wife had a similar experience. The worst
damage done in the Bosanquet mishap was to the
vehicle’s fog-horn.
Sincerely yours,
JOHANNA.
‘The Heathen”: The jehads of the Jud-
kinses are bearing their Dead Sea fruit,
and Sunday is becoming more and more the
Day of Pest.


a«i
ill*
t \
■
383
DEWAR’S
WHISKY
Of High Repute
CL Dewar’s Whisky
has achieved its
exalted position for
good and sufficient
reason. cln the
opinion of discrimin-
ating men, Dewar’s
Whisky is account-
ed “Excellent in
every
way.”


OU can get ordinary whiskies in any
number, but what odds when it costs
no more to drink
WATSONS
N°lo
WHISKY
Gout and Rheumatism.
These complaints arise from the poisonous waste
matters accumulated in the blood consequent on the
kidneys, through temporary disorder or through
some disease, being unable to carry out their work.
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills rapidly reach the root of the
trouble and soon afford relief. Price Is. 6d. and
2s. 6d.*
A TONIC TO
CURE INDIGESTION.
+-
.Treatment That has Given
Good Results in Many
Cases*
Persons with weak stomachs who suffer
from Indigestion need a tonic that has no
laxative action. Purgatives may help to
move a meal along, but they weaken.
What the stomach needs is strength
to digest ordinary food. Now Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills are a tonic without any
laxative action whatever. Their mission is
to make strength, and experience has shown
that they have cured many severe cases of
Indigestion. The following typical case
shows how good they are : —-
“Bit by bit I was attacked by Indiges-
tion,” said Mrs. Jane Smith, 66 Regent-
street, Richmond, Melbourne. “First I
noticed that my appetite was falling off, and
at last I could hardly look at the meal table.
Often I could not keep down what I forced
myself to take, and I would have bilious
retching and feel as sick as could be. As
sure as I took a bite of anything I would
get a lump in my chest and I would feel
sore and tender inside right to my shoulder
blades. My stomach would swell out with
wind so that I would be most distressed. I
always had a nasty taste in my mouth and
such a thick coating on my tongue. I had
no energy left, and I would feel sleepy all
day; yet at night the least noise would
waken me. Violent sick headaches would
set in. All the top of my head would ache,
and then the pain would spread down to my
eyes. I dare not stoop at these times; for
everything would go black for a space. For
a couple of days perhaps these headaches
would come on, and many a day I could
not cook the dinner; I would have to go
and lie down. My heart would beat vio-
lently and I would feel quite faint, but I
started Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills and they
eased off all the symptoms. Before I
started them I used to be as sallow and
pasty as could be, but my color began to get
healthy as my appetite improved. Now I
can eat anything I fancy, and feel brisk and
energetic, thanks to this remedy.”
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are sold by
chemists and storekeepers, or sent by mail,
post paid, on receipt of price 2s. 9d. per box.
6 boxes 15s. 3d., by the Dr. Williams’ Medi-
cine Co., of Australasia Ltd., Sydney.
sfd
A rupture is
not improved
by wearing' a
bad Truss—
the Truss
must fit ex-
actly and give
proper sup-
port, as Den-
yer’s Special
Elastic Truss
does. This
Truss is a true safeguard and perfectly comfortable.
DENYER BROS., Truss & Abdominal Belt Makers,
281 GEORGE ST. (opp. Hunter St.), SYDNEY ; and
at Melbourne, corner Swanston & Lonsdale Sts.
dcnyer
Single, 17/6;
Double, 22/6
Call or write.
POLITICAL
POINTS
“Quail”: Agree with “Locust” (B.
1/6/T1) that political mediocrities appear
to have the best chance q|, surviving in poli-
tics. As evidence in support, there’s George
Fox, the father of the Bananaland Assem-
bly, who has been known to utter as much
as two consecutive sentences in the House.
George Reid’s official establishment in
London has been swollen a trifle lately.
A commissionaire, messengers, and a private
sec. to Captain Collins have been added, to
the staff, and their wages added to Gorge’s
own large salary, and other expenses, carry
the annual bill up to £17,000.
In the N. S. Assembly the other
night the Opposition was protesting against
the Labor party’s “caucus rule,” whereupon
George Black heaved in the'remains of a
cat which Varney Parkes chased out of the
bag in 1907. Parkes had just 'come through
what he called “some unpleasant features”
of the elections, and was protesting in the
Assembly against all Liberal candidates
being required to send in their names to the
organiser before being permitted to stand in
the party’s name. “AVliy did you send in
your name?” he was asked. “Because,” re-
plied the anti-caucus advocate, “I knew that
if I did not do so I would be blackballed,
condemned as a vote-splitter and exposed to
the full resentment of the Liberal organisa-
tion.”
Plain Alfred Edden, Minister for Mines
in the N.S.W. Government, minces no
words. Being informed in the Assembly
a few nights ago by a barracker for the
Wade party that he (the barracker) would
not vote to acquire a State coal mine, un-
less the Chief Commissioner for Railwavs
advised that it was absolutely necessary for
the working of the railways, the Minister
set out the position thus:—
All I can say is that I am not going to wait for
the Chief Commissioner to advise me. I am going
to advise him.
Being told that the Commissioner had stated
that if a Minister of the Crown dared to
dictate to him what his policy should be, he
would resign, Edden merely answered that
that wouldn’t stop him from doing his duty.
And the argument closed on the spot.
Premier Frank AAfilson, of AVestralia, has
earned an ungentle reproof from the Pall
Mall Gazette by informing a crowd of
English aldermen “that Australia would
spend her last man and shilling in defence of
the ! Empire.” The P.M.G. suggests that
perfervidly “loyal” politicians from Aus-
tralia and elsewhere would best serve the
Hempire by refraining from Jingo screams
calculated to beguile drowsy Britishers into
the belief that the —haw —“ Colonies” are
panting to fight and die for the dear Old
Mother Country. Practically, the prudent
Cockney journal confesses its fear that Brit-
ain never will attempt to get into fighting
trim whilst “oversea visitors” talk of raising
armies to come to her rescue when required.
If Andrew Fisher wants to really deserve a
front seat at the Coronation show, he will
at once inform Great Britain in a chilly
voice that Premier Wilson of AV.A. has been
talking through his neck; after which he
might turn and advise AATlson I© go home
and talk to those fat mercantile friends of
his who have struggled and still struggle
against universal training—the only system
which will make Australia much use in
fighting for anybody.
“The Growler”: I observe that the eques-
trian statue of Australia’s first Governor-
General, bought by the Australian people
with Australian money, was made in a for-
eign country by an alien artist, and has
arrived in a foreign steamer. Is it too late
to suggest that it be erectedby Chinese labor
and unveiled by Bundle Singh, the eminent
Syrian hawker?
The possibility of Watt succeeding Weary as
Premier of Victoria is still discussed. AVeary
is said to desire the post of Agent-General,
and, should he supersede the heavy-weight
Taverner, as Mrs. Rumor hopes, AA'att should
be leading a reconstructed 1 Government
within eight months. AA'att, however, will
support no intrigue to oust his tired chief.
AA'hen it was lately suggested that lie might
slide into the Premiership oh the back of a
plot, lie let it be known that'he was incapa-
ble of such dreadful treachery to an absent
friend.
OUTLIVED ITS USEFULNESS.
GLOOMY MILK VENDOR (recently fined for putting rain in his milk): “Yes, an ’ what’s
the use of it to ME?”
That stodgy representative of the staid
and orthodox in literature, Henry Gyles
Turner, has been lecturing to the Melbourne
Shakspeare Society on “The England of Rich-
ard II.” Incidentally, he spoke of John
Ball, one of the earliest of English Socialists,
who fulminated against the nobles because
they were clothed in ■ ermine and < lived in
luxury, while the common people could bare-
ly obtain enough oaten bread and water.
The Right Thinking lecturer had, of course,
to throw his gibe at the Labor party. “It
was stern reality in Ball’s time,” said he;
“but now the Socialist Pleasant Sunday Af-
ternoons on the Yarra Bank are stage-
managed party politics.” Gyles Turner has
proved himself so ignorant of so many
things,That he quite likely doesn’t know that
no political party conducts the Yarra Bank
Sunday gatherings. They are run by irre-
Sponsibles; and the ex-financial manager has
no more right to connect the Labor party
with them than the Labor party would have
to identify Henry Gyles Turner with the
‘financial troubles of 20 years ago, which
landed various managers and directors in
gaol, simply because he also happened to be
the general manager of a bank at the time.
They take their politics seriously in some
parts of Gippsland (A'ic.). At one town-
ship the big thing at the Empire Day
sports was a tug-of-war between the Labor
party and the Liberals. Fat won; and
then it was discovered that lie had tacked
an extra man on to his end. This, no doubt,
was intended to represent the House or
p a t —the loaded dice that the Corpulent
party in the States always plays with.
Newcastle is again weeping in the ashes,
first, because the N.S.W. Decentralisation
Committee passed over its artificial port in
favor of the natural Port Stephens, and,
secondly, because the Government says it
intends creating a local Harbor Trust. A\ hue
this would free Coalopolis from "Sydney
domination,” it would mean the imposition
of wharfage and tonnage rates. So the col-
liery magnates, who now get their coal
shipped free of wharfage, are kicking them
selves for having overdone the “domina-
tion” cry, and are expressing a readiness to
be over-ridden on the old terms.
Lord Dudley, orating at Townsville (Q.),
gave voice to the genuine Jingo gospel: —
There must be no question of one part of the Em-
pire asking, in respect of a quarrel, Is it a right
quarrel? They must remember that the quarrel was
against the Union Jack, and spring to its aid.
No question of right or wrong with Lord
Dudley. If Britain attempted again to force
the opium trade on the Chinese at the can-
non’s mouth, Australia must rush like one
man to assist her!
Maoriland’s census, which gives a total
of about SOOO over the million, shows that
in five years the North Island has gained
87,000, and the South Island 32,000 ; so the
Commissioners who adjust the electoral
boundaries will have to increase the num-
ber of Northern electorates at the expense
of the South. Which, of course, the South
doesn’t relish, though some of it is comfort-
ing itself with the remark tlfat “the North
will see” when the South’s long-threatened
oilfields get properly going.
From F. W. Burrows, president of the
Westralian A.L.F.: —
Par. (B. 18/5/’ll) reflects on the Labor selection
ballots in Australia ; but what for ? The_ Constitu-
tion of the W.A. division of the Australian Labor
Federation provides that “All financial members of
affiliated trades unions are eligible to vote in selec-
tion ballots,” and also that “All adult persons,
natural born or naturalised, who have been members
of a political branch of the Labor party for three
calendar months immediately preceding the closing
of nominations, and have paid the prescribed fees,
shall also be eligible to vote.” Uniform tickets are
issued by district councils to all members of a
political branch on payment of the annual fee.
Members of political branches must produce their
tickets when voting,: in order to satisfy the return-
ing-offleer that they have the necessary three months’
qualification. We 'may have some “weird” members;
but then N. S.. Wales has Holman and Beeby. Giv-
ing all the weirdness in, W.A. is the only State that
gave a “Yes” majority on the Referenda.
No doubt; and this paper gives three cheers
for the Westralian Laborite. But, all the
same, it hangs on to the idea that a State
which can give that sort of vote ought to
have a local Parliamentary Labor party
with a better record than a mere 12 months
of office six years ago.
Tlie reitei’ation of history. At John Bull's
recent conference of Empire, Joseph Ward,
of Maoriland, urged the old man to borrow
£50,000,000. As far back as Genesis it is
recorded that “Joseph went up to bury his
father.”
Westralian Premier Wilson may be right,
and Australia may be prepared to spend its
last shilling in defence of the Empire. But
when, on the Empire’s advice, an Australian
navy was begun, the Eat Australian put up
a big fight to avoid shelling out its first
shilling in the shape of a land tax.
“One of the first measures to be intro-
duced after the adoption of the Address-in-
Reply,” says Victoria’s Willie Watt, “will
be a sort of Bill for expediting public busi-
ness —an amendment of the Standing Orders
to curtail speeches in committee.” Watt
has evidently got to the penitent form.
But the abolition of the weary, vain, vapor-
ous Address-in-Reply itself demands a man
with a big mind and a strong will, and ap-
parently Watt doesn’t consider that he is
that kind of man.
Geelong Chamber of Commerce has just
had a beautiful example of how Melbourne
is bloated at the expense of the country. A
local merchant wanted to send goods
to Adelaide by rail. lie found it was
£2 per ton cheaper to send them from Mel-
bourne. So he sent them to Melbourne at
Ts. 6d. per ton, and thence they were for-
warded to Adelaide via Geelong. In other
words, the Railways paid him a bonus of
£1 12s. 6d. per ton for giving them the privi-
lege of hauling the goods to Melbourne and
back to Geelong for nothing.
Trouble has arisen in M.L. over the barb-
wire that the insurance cos. have wrapped
round the Workers’ Compensation Act. For
the loss of a finger, the compensation fixed
is at the rate of 5 per cent, of the sum pay-
able for the loss of a hand. The cos. have,
however, been refusing to pay if a fraction
of the finger remained, although total incapa-
citation of the member might be shown.
Minister Millar has now stepped in and in-
formed the technical pointers that a straight
line is the only way to avoid collision with
an amending Act.
Dean Parkyn, of Ballarat, has been rat-
tling the suppliant plate in the interests of a
Church of England Grammar School; but
all is barren. He tells a sad, true story of
one squatter who promised a gift if there
were 2in. of rain. Three inches fell, and the
good dean looked up his squatter, rosy with
expectation, and got —6d.! The big land-
owners said they couldn’t lend to the Lord
because of “the iniquitous land tax.” Ap-
parently the inference they intended to con-
vey was that if the Lord permitted such
devilish contrivances He must expect to
find money tight.
THE NET RESULT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
No Beast lias rent the marriage tie ;
No Tiger grim, with bloody claws,
And Atheism in its eye,
Has leapt upon our moral laws.
The Home is still intact, although
For months the Wreckers have been here,
With power complete to overthrow
The edifice we hold so dear.
The merchant still proceeds to toil;
The banker banks; the navvy doffs
His coat and mutilates the soil;
The loafer loafs; the golfer goffs.
In brief, no wild catastrophe
Has followed Labor’s rise to pow’r;
No wave of crime has burst. And we,
Who looked lor chaps - hour by hour,
Are puzzled as to how to act.
The only change sob!)
Consists in one small, bloodless fact —
The hangman has resigned His job.
x.s.w.
M. SAFRAN.


The World’s
Greatest
ITusicians Say
That the
STEINWAY
Is the
World’s
Greatest
PIANO
Sole
Agents
NICHOLSON 8 CO.
LiniTED,
Sydney,
Brisbane,
Newcastle,
Toowoomba,
Orange,
Warwick.
Coronation Posters
PATHE’S always Help tHe Showman.
... Magnificent...
Coronation Poster
Brilliantly Executed in Four Colors.
Order Early.^f
Price
only
6/-
per
Do z.
NOW READY. The Biggest Advertisement any show can put out for
Coronation Week. The Public will rush these Beautiful Pictures of
Make a Splash.
IT PAYS.
THE KING and QUEEN.
Make a Splash.
IT PAYS.
A big quantity has been ordered, but, as the Poster is sure to be rushed,
YOU MUST ORDER AT ONCE, OTHERWISE YOU WILL BE LEFT LAMENTING-
CALL, WRITE, or WIRE AT ONCE.
Pathe’s Coronation Poster
Remember only Os. per doz. WPA WORK OF ART.
PATHE FRERES
AUSTRALIA,
73 York Street, Sydney
50 Queen Street, flel bourne
(CX
//
\>v.
HARD HATS
—OF QUALITY —
at FARMER’S.
QUALI IY is the dominant factor in everything, and Quality
Hard Hats are giving splendid service long after the price
has been forgotten.
A wool Hard Hat inexpensively priced at first sight is quite pre-
sentable, but worthless after a little wear.
Good Quality Real Fur Hard Hats are constructed to look
smart and retain that smartness to the end. They cost but little more
than the inferior kind in the first instance, but they give three times
the wear, proving conclusively that a Quality Hat is the cheapest in
the long run.
Real Fur Hard Hats are the only kind that find a place in our
Men’s Hat Section ; and direct communication with the centres where
the Styles are made and endorsed keeps us in the fore-front as dicta-
tors of Fashion in Men’s Hats.
REAL FUR HARD HATS—
Small, Smart Shapes. Prices 7/6, 10/6, 12 y 6, 14/6, 15/6 each.
STETSON’S NEWEST SHAPES—
Self-conforming, nice Smooth, Soft Quality Fur—the last word in
Hard Hat perfection. Prices 25/= and 36/-
TWEED CAPS in the New, Full-Crown Shape.
Price 4/6 ; others from 2/6 to 6/6.
FARMER’S, Sydney.
ACMAR
W Sheep-branding Fluid
m That lasts from
¥ ro shearing.
Yer comes out completely
in rhe scouring of the wool
DOES NOT MAT THE FLEECE
Throughout the Commonwealrh
L and Mew Zealand. i


HAIR PRESERVED
AND BEAUTIFIED
BY USING I
Rowland’s
MACASSAR OIL.
It prevents baldness, eradicates scurf, is the best
dressing for ladies’ hair and for Children it is invalu-
able. Also in a Golden Colour for fair hair..
Sizes ,3s. Or!., 75., tos. 6d. Sold by Stores
Chemists, & A. Rowland & Sons, Hatton Garden,
London.
WILD AUSTRALIA.—SIvUTHORP’S SHOW coming
to Brisbane at last. —The Greatest Buckjumping
Show in the World is that of SKLTHORP’S, wnere
some 00 head of Bucking Horses, Bullocks, Ponies
and Mules travel with the Show, and a number of
the World’s Greatest Horsemen, including that King
of the Saddle and Bridle, Lance Skuthorp. He who
repeated Adam Lindsay Gordon’s Leap, and rode
Martini’s BOBS to a standstill. The Proprietor of
the Show has rented .the BRISBANE SHOWGROUND
for SATURDAY, JUNE 24. On that day the full
combination will perform. And there will be a £5O
prize for the Quickest Thrower and Tier of a Bul-
lock —the American Cowboys against the Australian
Stockmen. Also, £lOO prize for the Best Buckjump
Rider in Australia (for men), and a £5O prize
for the Best Lady Buckjump Rider; and a £lO
prize for the Best Camp Rider; £5O for the
Quickest at Catching and Saddling and Riding an
unbroken Colt. The Proprietor intends to take his
Show all round the world. Horsemen and Horse-
women that can prove themselves good enough
to represent Australia on that day pan be engaged at
a salary not less than £lO a week. All Letters,
G.P.0., Brisbane. .
THE CORRECTIVE PROPERTIES OF DR.
MORSE’S INDIAN ROOT PILLS.
Many people have no hesitation in taking
a dozen bottles of medicine in liquid form
prescribed by a doctor, but view with
alarm the suggestion to take a course
D?
DIRECTIONS
AfttLTS TUo tt.lU.fcu*
CHILDREN AHalt too
Wnou Pu-L Oisaocvrt
In
Take tn*rr retiring
INDIAN ROOT
PILLS
of pills. This misap-
prehension is no doubt
doe to the impression
that pills are merely
purgatives, which may
be correct in some in-
stances. Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Tills, how-
ever, are not merely
purgatives, acting up-
on the bowels only,
but contain more im-
port a n t properties,
which correct all dis-
orders of the Blood.
Stomach, Liver, and
Kidneys, evidence of
which is not wanting.
Thousands of testi-
monials sent us volun-
tarily and gratuitously
from all parts of Australia verify our state-
ments of what Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills will do and are doing every day. You
will find neighbors, friends and relatives
everywhere who have been restored to health
and "who can testify to the marvellous blood-
p'-v'fying and healing properties of these
pills. . ,
SCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents—RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE anti COOLCARPIE.
Brewkrt and Offices :
Dowling Street, REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
ihe visit of the Queensland Leaguers to
Sydney has been a disappointing campaign. Faced
by the best team N.S.W. could raise, the Banana-
landers had never a- hope, and were stamped flat.
Their full-back * alone seemed to have any idea of
what to do by instinct. They played beautifully as
individuals, and a lonely Queenslander would cheer-
fully charge the whole N.S.W. force and wonder why
the mischief he was promptly grassed, and the ball
wrenched from him and carried down on to the
Queensland line by a set of runners who, knowing
they were properly backed up, passed without look-
ing immediately danger threatened. The duty of the
man with the ball is to run for his life and devote
Ids whole attention to getting through, and the duty
of the man following up is to be where the ball will
be when the carrier passes it just as an opponent
charges him. Of this mechanical sort of cohesion
the Queensland team apparently had no idea, so they
were hopeless from the start. The first match was a
debacle, the second (on the Wednesday) a bad doing,
and the third (on Saturday) a crusher —-32 to 8.
The Queenslanders have faced three practically dif-
ferent teams in the three matches, and against not
one of them could they make headway. As said be-
fore, the lonely exception on Queensland’s side was
McGregor, the full-back. He played a sterling game,
and his kicking was cool and accurate. Had the rest
of the team been like him, N.S.W. would have had
to battle for its life. But it wasn’t.
The Queenslanders played a better game on
the Wednesday than they did the first Saturday,
anil they played a better game on the second Satur-
day than they did on the Wednesday. They had ob-
served the advantages that combination gave a team,
and tried hard to develop it. They followed up
much better, and generally gave the idea that all
they require tu make them formidable is a good
coach. On the second Saturday they did make
some combined rushes, which took a lot of stopping.
But it was at the last moment they failed. When
the struggle took place on the line, the Waters did
the right thing instinctively; the Queenslanders had
to stop to think, and in a struggle on the line there
is no time to think. That is where the value of good
coaching comes in—in a crisis the well-coached
player does the right thing automatically.
The League put on as a curtain-raiser a match
between city and country. It was a wearisome
affair, in which the metropolitan team put it all
over the country, and finally romped out with 29
points to 8.
* * * *
In the Union controversy the University
struck trouble on Saturday, and met its Waterloo at
the boots of Manly. Up till Saturday the Students
had not suffered a defeat this season, and had won
their five matches. On Saturday they appeared at
the Sydney Cricket Ground, and, as never in the
history of Rugby had Manly hitherto held its own
against the ’Varsity, the Students were very cock-
sure. But Manly this season is one of the most for-
midable of the Union teams, and when the ’Varsity
forwards tried to feed their back machine they were
astonished at the speed of the Villagers, who broke
up every formation, and bustled the Uni. three-
quarter line out of recognition. A savage mauling
first half resulted in no score on either side. In the
second half the Uni. back machine got moving re-
peatedly, but the Manly fellows were tigers, who,
once they got hold, never let go, and the Uni.
machine was grassed every time. Once by off-side
play it did get over the line,, but referee Swannell
squelched it. On the other hand, Manly could hot
get over the Uni. line, and it was a kick from a
mark that gave the victory to Manly by 3 to 'nil.
Eastern and Western Suburbs put up a
very pretty game at Rushcutters Bay, and the stand-
ard proves that the Union men 'are working very
hard indeed. There was improvement on both sides,
but Western Suburbs had easily the best of it, and
won by 23 to 13. In the South Sydncy-Glebe affair
the South threw the game away in the first half by
failing to press home some promising dribbling
charges. Glebe, with the heavy wind in its face,
contented itself with a strong defensive game, and
when the change of ends came let loose some royal
passing charges. And they had their reward in vic-
tory by 8 points to 3. Nobody expected St. George
to make much of a showing against the formidable
Newtown crowd. But to the amazement of the 600
onlookers St. George, with the wind in its face, more
than held its own, and w r as the first side to score.
It was in the second half, during the last lialf-hour,
that Newtown came out of its shell and won joy 19
to 6. North Sydney, which met Balmain at Epping,
made the best use of the gale in the first half ; and,
though Balmain unfolded some beautiful dribbling
charges, which were splendidly sustained, North’s
defence was always just too strong, and it won by
12 to 8.
* ' •* * *
In spite of counter-attractions, the at-
tendances at the Union game continue to grow.
Still, with all improvements, the crowds are not yet
big enough to be profitable, so the lily-white ama-
teurs continue to play the game for the game s own
sake.
* * * *
The result of the mix-up on Saturday is
to reduce University’s lead and make it share
first place with Newtown, with 10 competition points
each. Western Suburbs and Manly are in the second
line with nine points each, and Eastern Suburbs and
Glebe tail them up With six each. Balmain has
four, and St. George, South and North Sydney have
two points each, having each won one garhe and lost
five. University and Newtown are the ‘ other way
about, and have lost one and won five.
* ‘ * * *
Maoriland’s Rugby League team _ left
Maoriland for Sydney this week, and will kick off
against N.S.W. on June 22. When this campaign is
over, the Australasian selectors will settle down to
the terrible task of choosing the team for England.
Quite a number of ex-Union stars are in the Maori-
land division, including Francis, said to be the finest
forward ever bred or made in Maoriland. Gillett
and Morse are also among the crowd, and altogether
it is a doughty band. But it is going to find a
vastly improved Australian footballer, for it must be
admitted that the highest development of the Corn-
stalk ’bailer is in the League at the present moment.
* * * *
There was much bogging in of the “mud-
died oaf” last week by reason of the extra Monday
holiday in Melbourne. None of that day’s
matches amounted to much, however, the only
notable episodes being the capsizing of Carlton
by Geelong, the sound thrashing administered
to ’Roy by South, and the upending of the
Association premiers. North, by Ports. On Sat-
urday there was no football; certain gangs of mud-
larks merely splashed round in ooze and strove to
persuade a greasy bladder where it wouldn’t go,
while rings of umbrellas framed the fences and
steadily dripped moisture down the other fellow’s
neck. Carlton received ’Wood, and with difficulty
maintained the advantage of the toss and the wind
till three-quarter time. Then, with a 26-point de-
ficit, the Magpies set out for a “Collingwood finish.”
But the day didn’t lend itself to systematic play—the
Soccer game was the one for such weather—and Carl-
ton’s surer handling and neater dribbling kept the
Magpies in the mud till the end —Carlton, 55 points ;
’Wood, 22. Essendon encountered ’Roy on East
Melbourne claypan, and outed it by 55 points to 20.
This episode was enlivened by the intrusion of the
Law. A ’Roy player suddenly went down and out,
whereupon plain-clothes police jumped the fence and
began an inquiry there and then, afterwards detailing
one to make further investigations, with a view to
subsequent proceedings. Geelong visited South Mel-
bourne, and put up a good scuffle against Skinner’s
Hirelings, losing by only 13 points, 39 to 52. Rich-
mond passed the customary walloping to St. Kilda,
42 to 26, and the despised Melbourne 18 stood the
Students on their heads and poured mud over them
—67 to 39. As things now stand, last year’s first
four —’Wood, Carlton, South Melbourne and Essen-
don—threaten to arrive again, though Richmond and
’Roy may get there, and Geelong has a possible. The
others are hopeless.
The only game of the day showing a semblance of
football was at North Melb., where the well-drained
ground, gave the players a chance. Here the Vic.
Association indulged in its twelfth inter-State match
with South Aus., and a moderately skilful collision
occurred. The visitors ultimately won by 61 points
to 52—their Seventh win of the dozen games played.
After a close inspection, this writer opines that the
Murray Staters lost because they met a better team,
which observation is hereby patented. The Crow-
eaters were superior in marking, passing, handling
and kicking. They seemed to lack the strenuous de-
termination of, say, South when it is finishing a
losing game, but as they held a few points to the
good throughout, the extra vigor was not, perhaps,
called for.
Saturday’s Ballarat games were played in storms
of. hail and snow. The barrackers welcomed the
snow, and the wanderings of the umpires could be
traced all over the ground by the track of snowballs.
It was great fun—for the barrackers.
CLARENCE
WEBER,
THE VIC-
TORIAN
APOLLO
WHO
WANTS
TO MEET
JOHNSON
IN AN
“ ALL-IN ”
ENCOUNTER.
Through the week the League decided not
to proceed with the Board of Control proposal, but
suggested to the Association that they should com-
bine to create an Advisory Board. Heaven knows
what for. The League has had plenty of advice al-
ready ; the difficulty is to get it to follow any advice
whatsoever. The victorious Sou’stralians handed both
League and Association a timely word in season —to
come together and formulate a scheme of district
football. No Advisory Board can better that.
'*, * * *
The Law butted into football with great
vigor, and led off by fining Carltonian Gotz £lO
for outing Trood, of Warsity, with a woodener on
the point. Gotz is appealing, on the ground that
he is the wrong man. Two boggers-in of the Sham-
rock Brewery team have been called upon to pay the
revenue £6 and £5 apiece for stoushing a Chelten-
ham ’bailer who happened to be a John Hop. If the
Law keeps on at this rate, football will become a
moderately safe game, in which a man can take part
without preparing to meet his Maker every time he
dons his jersey.
* * * *
N.S.W. Central-Western Rugby Union
has resolved that the Northern Rugby Union game
is more attractive to the public than the Union.
Hence it proposes that, while remaining strictly ama-
teur, N.S.W. Rugby Union should adopt the League
game holus-bolus. It believes that if this is done
the Union can be saved. The point is, of course,
that the Union game will have disappeared, and the
men who now play Union Rugby will be playing
League Rugby under amateur conditions. And it is
very doubtful if the public would not continue to
flock tq the’League'grounds to see the League game
played. In which case the last state of the Union
would be worse than the first.
* * * *
The executive of the N.S.W. Lacrosse
Association has just been asked from Toronto
(Canada) if it will receive a professional team. In
Canada lacrosse is played by both professionals and
amateurs, but in Australia by amateurs only. So
the visit had to be declined. About the same time
Tahmmy Burns cabled that he was getting together
a team of North American Indians, and proposed to
take them through the States to show us how the game
is really played. But as Tahmmy’s Indians are also
professionals, they could, of course, play with them-
selves only. As nothing further has been heard of
the venture, it is presumably one of the great nest
of brilliant ideas which Tahmmy allows to go addled.
* * * *
The Pearce party is happy at last, Arnst
having been brought to sign articles which fix the
contest for the sculling championship of the world
for July 29. Pearce stuck out for July 15, and only
receded when the Maorilander remarked decisively
that if that date was insisted upon there would be
no race. So on the 29th the old Parramatta will see
another great contest. Arnst, it seems, has not been
- altogether well of late, and he held Pearce off till he
felt certain he could fix a date by which he would
have a reasonable chance of coming to the pink of
condition. When Pearce hung out so doggedly for
the loth, Arnst remarked that Pearce’s party was
evidently anxious to catch him at a disadvantage,
and he added that he was too wily a bird to be
bluffed into that sort of trap. There is not the slight-
est doiibt about 'it, Arnst will meet his most formid-
able opponent when he meets Pearce, and he will be
less fitted for a gruelling contest than at any time
in his career. Yet Arnst is so good anyhow that
Pearce, win or lose, will have the struggle of his
life.
The articles say the race is for £5OO aside and
the championship of the world, and it is agreed be-
tween the parties that Arnst is the present champion.
The winner will receive £5OO for himself, and £5OO
is to be returned to the subscribers of his stake, the
race will start at 4 p.m. on July 29 ; IVilliam Beac.i
is appointed referee and N. J. McDonald judge.
With regard to the money, £lOO aside is already up,
and £2OO more goes up on July 1, and the final
£2OO the day before the race. Default means for-
feit. The certificate of the referee is to be authority
to pay over the stakes, and resort to legal proceed-
ings is barred. # #
Billiardist Reece, with his English preju-
dices still thick upon him, clings to the notion that
the difference between ivory and composition balls in
a championship match will be fatal to Gray when lie
meets Stevenson. Like most other professors of
sports and games, Reece professes to discover things
undreamt of by the intelligent amateur. Ivory balls
will not give the same results as composition balls, and,
therefore, George Gray is bound to be at a great dis-
advantage, argues Reece. To the amateur critic it
seems that Gray’s unprecedented accuracy in playing
a stroke to which his young muscles are trained, will
be easily adapted to the slightly different conditions
in performing the same old stroke. It is shrewdly
suspected that the youngster already knows more
about the difference between ivories and compositions
than any of the English pros, can teach him. Reece
talks reasonably as regards the fact that the mono-
tony of the new billiards will inevitably kill it for
exhibition purposes, and make a return to the three-
ball game by the skilled artists absolutely necessary.
But when he says that there will be no necessity to
bar the Gray stroke to amateurs, as it is too diffi-
cult, he is not on such good ground. The “spot-
stroke” of old was too difficult for amateurs, but it
became so common it had to be barred. And hun-
dreds of smart amateurs will be so deadly on the
losing hazard from baulk that an ordinary 200 up
will consist of about two breaks.
* * * *
Australia had all the glory in the billiard
world last week with Fred Lindrum playing in Mel-
bourne while Reece looked on, and George Gray, over-
seas, gradually widening the breach between himself
and Inman. Both these Australians are mere young-
sters, so Heaven knows what they will be like when
they get really set.
* * * *
In the champion of champion bowls-com-
petition at North Sydney last week, Widerstrom just
managed to creep out ahead of Taylor with 31 to
28. At the start it looked like a runaway game, for
Widerstrom led by 19 to 5 ; but Taylor came with a
mighty effort, and the scores were 27 all. Then,
amidst tremendous excitement, Widerstrom made his
dash, and got through.
* * * *
The Union’s bike race from Picton to
Ashficld (N.S.W.) was a great success, unmarred by
any bad falls. But there’s trouble because some out-
siders are said to have made pace for their fancies.
The referees reported that these things had been
;done, and the council is getting its axe ready. There
;is no objection to competitors pacing one another,
and it is recognised that back-markers always do
so. If they didn’t they’d have mighty little chance
of overtaking the long starters. The long starter, in
reply, asks, if the pursuers are to be allowed to pace
one another, why should not the lonely long-distance
man be allowed to take outside pace? His only
hope is to keep ahead, for once the faster back-
marker comes up with him his chance has gone.
He must keep ahead or burst. The Union’s retort
is, “Then burst.”
* * * *
The Dunlop Rubber Co. has applied to the
Victorian League of Wheelmen to be allotted Sat-
urday, October 14, for the Warrnambool to Mel-
bourne run. This is Caulfield Guineas Day, and is
a week later than the usual date. The change is
desired with a view of missing the Flemington race
traffic, which, makes for a crowded finish. The
conditions will be practically the same as last year,
With one exception: contestants must wear suitable
costumes, including stockings. Some asses have
■hitherto mistaken a public road race for a private
(swimming contest.
* * * *
f The nearest approach to the Dunlop-
IWarrnambool race in Europe is the famous Paris-
Roubaix. It is held over practically the same dis-
tance as the Warrnambool, 165 miles, but it is a
Scratch event, and attracts only the best and strong-
est of the long-distance road-riders of Europe. Yet,
curiously enough, in this race of cracks, the times
have never approached those put up on the Warrnam-
bool course. This year the event fell to Lapize, a
previous winner, in Bhrs. 29min. 10sec., whereas
the record for the Warrnambool is I. R. Munro’s
7hrs. 12min. 51sec. Decadent Australia," eh?
* * * *
Avrigo, the French aviator, on Thursday
last did an astounding thing. Flying at an altitude
of 7500 ft., this reckless Frenchman covered 85 miles
in 55min., through a wind blowing at 30 miles an
hour. The man who can rush along at over 92 miles
an hour one and a-half miles above the earth, must
be. devoid of nerves.
* * * *
though the rumor that “something would
happen to the favorite” was falsified in the result of
this year’s English Derby, it didn’t follow that the
rumor was “groundless,” as the cables insinuated.
Apparently, the publicity given to the rumor sufficed
to “queer” the conspiracy. It was significant that
the number of horses that finally accepted (accept-
ance entails a payment of 50 so vs.) was the largest
on record for 40 years, notwithstanding the fact that
the favorite was reckoned an odds-on chance on its
merits. Australian turfmen are reminded of the re-
cord field that went to the post for Carbine’s Cup.
The bookmakers could see “nothing in it” save the
great horse if he didn’t meet with an accident; and
about 10 of the 39 starters were suspected of being
sent simply on an “interference” mission. But the
top-weight was raced in the first flight from the
jump, so the would-be blockers, if there were any,
never got near him. After the race, the talk of a
conspiracy to block Carbine sounded like an idle
rumor; but before the race it hadn’t seemed pos-
sible that the 10.5 favorite could be kept near the
leaders all the way round without feeling the weight
on his back.
South Aus. Jockey Club had one more
proof of the boom of racing' in the State when it
closed its entries for its four classic races, two each
for two- and three-year-olds. The entries for the four
races (the local Derby is included) totalled over 500.
There have never been as many as 300 before, and
four years ago there were fewer than 200.
* * * *
Adelaide Racing Club makes its Birthday
Cup meeting almost a duplicate of the S.A. Jockey
Club’s Cup fixture. Just on £60,000 went through the
Tote in the three days—the last one wet—-and the
club’s £4500 out of this goes a long way towards
paying the stakes. The Birthday Cup went to Cres-
wjek’s Karnattan (7st. 41b.), Eye-Glass, with 9st.
111 b., being a length away. The winner paid a div.
of £4 19s. (4 to 1), and Eye-Glass (after the cheer-
ful local custom) paid his backers 28 bob for their
sovereign. The only weight-for-age race at the meet-
ing saw Eye-Glass win easily from Salvator, Rosa
and Dhobi.
* * * *
S. Aus. Jockey Club is free of debt for
the first time in its history. It cleared £3OOO over
the three days Adelaide Cup meeting, and is going
to increase its stakes. The Morphettville course and
all appurtenances belong to the club, and are now
free from encumbrance. A. O. Whitington has been
secretary ever since (22 years ago) tne Totalisator
Act was passed, giving racing in S.A. a fresh start,
and saving the Adelaide Cup from its absurd plight
of being run in Melbourne.
# * * *
In Maoriland the race clubs are sapping
the popularity of the Tote by refusing to run a ten-
shilling machine. The small man who does not care
to whack on more than ten shillings, is cursing and
sighing loudly for the good old days when an oblig-
ing bookmaker would take as little as ’arf a dollar.
This is a mistaken policy on the part of the clubs, and
will yet lead to a return of God’s chosen people to
God’s own country.
* * * *
Ranji Burns, of Sydney, ran into Bill
Walsh, of Melbourne, at the Melbourne Athletic
Club’s Hall the other evening, and sustained sundry
concussions that incapacitated him in the tenth
round. Ranji has some of the qualities of a pug,
and might thrive at the game if he held himself to-
gether. But he is loose in style, and sprawls like a
tarantula, leaving openings to every point of the
compass. Still he knows how to defend. The trouble
is that he forgets what he knows in the moment of
greatest necessity. It was a hard, up-and-down fight.
Ranji was down twice for Bsee., and once he hooked
Walsh a beauty that shot the Melbournian clean
through the ropes. Early in the tenth Walsh whirled
his right. It was one of those moments when Burns
was forgetting, and when he came-to it no longer
mattered.
* * * *
The press scrimmaging between Clarence
Weber et al. as to the best means of self-defence,
has culminated in what is alleged to be the first of
a series of contests to decide the momentous ques-
tion. It takes the form of a scuffle between Jamie
McMurdo, of Scawtlan’, and Ryugoru Shima, Jap,
at Melbourne Guildhall, on June 15, Scotland relying
on catch-as-catch-can and Japan on jiu-jitsu, while
Weber aforesaid will act as x'eferee. As “the box”
doesn’t come into the business, the ruction doesn’t
seem relative to the issue raised by Weber, but it is
probably intended to arouse interest in later scuffles.
Also, the previously-mentioned Weber has agreed to
meet Hackensehmidt’s former wrestling partner.
Alex. Bain —not to be confounded with Willie Withers
Bain —in a disturbance for the catch- etc. cham-
pionship of Australia. Bain weighs and
Weber about 13st., and as each is just now alleged
to be a shade fitter than the other, if anything,
there is a threat of a sizeable boom on hand.
* * * *
An all-India cricket team is on its way
to England—all natives, and mostly on the veteran
side, with the Maharajah of Patiala as captain. The
Jam Sahib (who is Ranjitsinghi) was to have been
one of them, but stated at the last moment that it
was “impossible.” Probably the British Government
gave him a strong hint to stick to his job as Jam
of his little kingdom, if he wants it to stick to him.
* * * *
E. R. Voigt, five-mile Olympic champion
and one-mile English champion, is on the Medic on
his way to Australia. He may possibly be seen as
an amateur on Australian tracks; but his main ob-
ject is to do something more solid for himself by
setting up with a partner in the engineering trade.
He was, till his departure, treasurer of the Man-
chester Athletic Club, and it was at Manchester that
he made his fastest time for a mile —4min. 19 4-5
secs.
* * * *
“Iloddle”: William Nicholls, an old-time
Vic. sprint-runner, had his health drunk recently on
entering into the 70’s. Nicholls was long con-
nected with the Friendly Societies’ Grounds, which
now, after a lapse of 40 years, are once more to be
the scene of first-class sprint performances. The last
ped. trial of any note there was the 300 yards’ spin,
in 1870, between Hewitt and Harris, for £lOO aside.
The run off was to settle a prior contest between
these two fliers on the M.C.C., which had ended in
“honors even.” Somewhere about 10,000 people
turned up to watch that race. Great work is now
in progress at the old grounds, where it is intended
that clean sport shall be given a chance. The trouble
all along with the grounds has been their out-of-the-
wayness ; but it is hoped to get over the difficultv
by arranging that a fleet of motor-boats shall plv
from Princes Bridge, charging a return fare of 3d.
This will no doubt put cabby on his mettle too.


LOOK FOR NAME ON STRAP
s\¥:
Q>
5?XSi
245
JS-/V
Uiii
MERE statements of Quality,
unsupported by facts, count
as nothing. “Marshall” shoes
are good because they
combine genuine comfort,
unquestioned style, and
long wear. What more
do you ask of any shoe
at any price?
Style
No. 1515
I* xia Toe,
Dango Pat. Colt,
Blucher Bal.,
Calf Kid Quarters.
21/=
Send for Style Book .
Stocked by Anthony Hordern & Sons,
Sydney and most other Good Dealers.
Inquire of yours.
BURNLEY ST.,
RICHMOND, VIC.
ANOTHER STYLE NEXT WEEK
IWLUUI Jl 11 I UUUULUU ■ ■. .■■■■..
GUARANTEED 2 YEARS.
sfd
20-30 h. P . Chalmers
£490
s=Seater
Touring Car.
40-hp. THOMAS,
6-Cylinder 7-Seater.
ROY W. SAND FORD,
181 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Also at 105 EXHIBITION STREET, MELBOURNE.
Make^
your
own
Cigarette
If
twice
asgood
CIGARETTE
PAPER
BB.ST and VBBBST
!F NOT PROCURABLE AT YOUR
TOBACCONIST APPLY TO THE AGENTS
Jacobs Bros. L td 255? George S? Sydney
//a
O<J
/
O
The product of
One source only
More miles on *' Shell" than
on any other.
Its perfect purltv —that's
the point’
Millars’ Karri 8 Jarrah
Co. (1902), Ltd.
We Supply—
JARRAH Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’ Scant=
ling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
72 BISHOPSGATE STREET WITHIN
LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68£ PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
WEAR RIGNEY SHOES! -
y
Those gents, who look for serviceability, style and comfort in
. t . heir footwear should wear Rigney Shoes.
If it is not convenient for you to call, send us your orders by
mail.
The Shoe illustrated is a choice Tan Willow Calf Oxford Shoe
smart shape, very serviceable and comfortable.
Price 18/6.
Postage
9d. extra.
Send for a Copy of our New Catalogue.
The Rigney Shoe Co.,
“The Men’s Exclusive High-Grade Shoe Stores,”
305 George Street,
and 179 a Pitt Street, Sydney.
Please note that the new shop in Pitt Street
is under the personal supervision of Mr.
r. o. Kigney, the sole and only proprietor
of the above firm.
ld
OWNey
gf
5/
J5WK*.v.-wr.,
M 4/
OLD ORKNEY
Real LiqueurWhisky
[ AGENTS:
SYDNEY-Tooiieys, Ltd.
MELBOURNE—T. R. Jones & Co.
BRISBANE—EIIiott Donaldson
& Douglas, Ltd.
ADELAIDE—Lord & Heseltino.
HOBART—John Ferguson & Co.
LAUNGESTON—Jonn McKenzie 1
Co.
THE W HISKY
FOR IHC HOME
2800 MILES WITHOUT REPAIRS,
2800 miles is a long ride, but one that Mr. 11. F. Cooper, of Central Raleigh,
accomplished on his B. & B. Model 1 without spending “ twopence for repairs.”
Read his letter:—
“ Altogether I have ridden over two thousand eight hundred miles
on this Model 1 Road Racer, and it hasn’t cost me twopence for repairs
Wherever I have journeyed it has always been favorably commented
upon by other cyclists. For the price I cannot recommend any other
machine as likely to give more satisfaction.
sfd fd
There is no
reason why you should not ride a mount just as reliable as this. The price is but £lB
Call and see one,-or write for New Catalogue.
Bennett & Barkell, Ltd.,
Largest Clyde Building House in the State,
234 Pitt Street, and Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
Btiilt for bard Service !■
One glance at the Tubular Steel Barrow is sufficient to convince one of
its adaptability .to stand', rough
usage. The Solid Steel Trays are
without seam or rivet,-and are de-
tachable. Note how the handles pass
around
the wheel
and pro-
vi d e a
rest for
dumping.
No. 10—Barrow capacity 400!b.' to 500 lb. coal,
60/- No. 4j —Barrow capacity 3 cubic feet of
earth, 45/- No. 4 -Barrcw capacity 3 cubic
feat of earth, 33/-
Extra Tra.\s and Duplicate Parts in stock.
256-pag-e Catalogue Post Free.: Write for it !
When ivriting, please mention this paper.
St
Thomas McPherson & Son,
Established 50 Years,
582-588 Collins St., Melbourne.
“MOTA
(Regd
' > WMM
The “ MOTA ” HAT is conceded everywhere to
he the standard in style, quality and workmanship.
It is easily the most comfortable of hats, and
equally suitable for town or country wear, for
business or holidays, for walking-, driving or riding-,
for week days or .Sundays, for wet days or fine days,
for warm weather or cold weather.
The “ MOTA ” is THE hat that suits every head
and every occasion. Stocked by leading houses
thmuguout Australia, in all fashionable colors.
PRICES, 7/G to 12/6.
If unobtainable in your district, write us direct.
THE AUSTRAL HAT MILLS, LIMITED,
ABBOTSFORD, MELBOURNE.
sfdsfd
QIVEN AWAY.
To Advertise
our
ostrich
TIPS.
2/6
the Buneh
post fn-e.
Three Black Tips,
or Black Tipped
with White.
Write to-day. Send
Postal Notes.
Catalogues Free.
Miller’s Feather Shop,
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY; also at
Corner of Bourke and Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention Tun Bulletin.] its
]
A
BRAHAM
COSTUME
FOR
WINTER.
DAVID BRAHAM
AND CO.,
76 Market Street,
Sydney.
Next door to Farmer’s.
sssWell, of course
Anything worth doing is
worth doing well —so for
the antiseptic cleansing your
teeth need every day, use
CALVERT’S
Carbolic Tooth Powder
Local Chemists and Stores sell it,
F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester, Eng>


A. SAUNDERS’ JEWELLERY
IS FAMED ALL OVER AUSTRALIA FOR ITS WONDERFUL BEAUTY,
EXCLUSIVENESS—AND VALUE.
LET US SEND YOU OUR FREE CATALOG-AND REMEMBER WE PAY POSTAGE TO ANY ADDRESS.
A. SAUNDERS.
»ct Gold PENDANT, set
Pearls and Turquoise,
£2-
ks
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver MATCHBOX,
5/6-
Smaller, 4/6.
£4/10/
fsd
£5/10/-
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Solid Gold Half Hun-
ter Keyless WATCH, full-
jewelled, extra heavy,
£4/10/.
Higher Grade, £5/10/.
Guaranteed 3 years’ FREE
Repair.
A. SAUNDERS.
15et Gold “Lilv of the Valley” Spray
BROOCH, fine white Pearls,
£4-
as
Si
i
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold MEDAL,
15/.
15ct Gold, 30/;
Silver, 2/6.
4=
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold PIN and
STUD, Pearls and
Diamond,
35/.
sd
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold EAR-
RINGS, set Pearls
and Aquamarines or
Peridot or Coral,
25/.
A. SAUNDEItS.
Oct Gold LINKS,
10/6
mP
shi
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Circle BROOCH,
set Pearls and. Turquoiße,
25/.
■
Oct Gold BRACE-
LET, set Pearls,
Amethyst, or
Topaz,
£3-
sfds
fd
sfdsfd
A. SAUNDERS.
9et Gold BRACELET, Fancy Basket Pattern, Stron
Safetv Chain attached,
' £2/10/.
sfd
£6/10/-
£6/10/-
A. SAU.Nur.RS.
Lady’s Solid Gold Expanding WATCH BRACELET, the
Latest Design, lever movement, full jewelled, accurate,
reliable,
£6/10/-
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold TOOTH-PICK, 12/6- Larger, .15/, 20/.
A . SAUNDERS
40/-
S>ot Gold Pendant, set
Amethysts and Pearls,
40/-
9ct Gold Pendant, set
Amethysts and Pearls,
m
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold BAR BROOCH, Nicely Engraved,
Any Initial,
5/6-
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold LINKS,
20/-
Initials Engraved Free.
sfd
A. SAUNDERS.
Set Gold, set Pearls, Tur-
quoise, Red or Blue Stones,
20/-
sf
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold BRACE-
LET, set Fine
Opals,
£5/10/-
sfd
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold
PENDANT,
set Fine White
Pearls and
Turquoise, •
32/6.
sfdsfdsfd
A. SAUNDERS.
Silver
HAT PIN,
Amethyst
Thistle,
21-
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold
EAR-RINGS,
set Pearls and
Brilliants,
8/6.
sfd sfd
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold PENDANT,
set Fine White Pearls
and Peridot or
Tourmalines,
£3/15/.
sf sf
A. SAUNDERS.
BACK COMB, set Parisian
Diamonds,
8/6.
25/-
s
30/-
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Solid Silver Hunting
Keyless WATCH, f-plate, full
jewelled, patent adjusted bal-
ance, 25/-
Extra Jewelled Movement, SO/.
Guaranteed 1 year’s free repair.
fd
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct Gold DOUBLE ALBERT,
£3, £3/5/, £3/10/, £4.
15et Gold, £5/15/, £6/10/, £7/10/-, £B/10/.
sƒ
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct Gold “Curb” Muff CHAIN,
£3/10/, £4, £5/10/.
20/-
\
s
WF
X
20/-
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent. ’s Nickel Open Face Keyless Lever TIME-
KEEPER full-jewelled, patent adjusted balance,
non-m’agnetic time spring, dust and water
proof cases,
20/-
Guaranteed 1 year’s free repairs.
TEST
YOUR
OWN
SIGHT
WITH
OUR
FREE
HOME
EYE
TEST
CHART.
dsf
15ct Gold IJROOCH, set Green
Tourmalines or Rubies,
21/
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold Scroll BROOCH, pure Dia-
monds, Pearls, Rubies, or Sapphires,
£5 /jlO/.
dsfd
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Ivy Leaf BROOCH,
12/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold Pure
Double-cut Diamonds
£ 15.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, set Dia-
monds, Rubies, or
Sapphires,
£B/10/-
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold Wed-
ding RING,
25/- ,
18ct Gold, 30/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold, set Dia-
monds and Rubies
or Sapphires,
2KS/.
A. SAUNDERS.
18et Gold, 3 Pure
Double-cut Dia-
monds,
£5-
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Band RING,
set Red, Green, or
Blue Stones,
20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, set Dia-,
Diamond and Rubies
or Sapphires,
£3.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, set Dou-
ble Heart, Opal
and Diamonds,
£4/10/-
A. SAUNDERS.
9et Gold Signet
RING, Square and
Compass or other
Emblem,
22/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
o
50/-
Gold
NECKLACE,
set Pearls
and
Amethysts.
50/-
Gold
NECKLACE,
Pearls
nd
Amethysts.
sfd
CATA-
LOGS
OF
SILVER-
PLATE
AND
LEATHER
GOODS
POST
FREE
ANY-
WHERE.
fd
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Floral Spray BROOCH, set Pearls
and Amethyst,
12/6.
sfd
sfds
A. SAujNDERS.
loct Gold BROOCH, pure double-cut
Diamonds,
ft 4/10/.
fdsfd
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold BROOCH, set pure double-
cut Diamonds and Rubies or Sapphires,
£4/10/-
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Double ALBERT,
£ o £3/5/, £3/10/, £4.
15ct Gold,’ £5/10/, £6, £7/10/, £3/10/
A. SAUNDERS.
loct Gold BROOCH, five Pure White double-
cut Dianmonds,
£2O.
50/-
i f&M
' ■ ■
50/-
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Patent Gold-cased Hunting Keyless
Waltham WATCH, full jewelled, compensa-
tion balance. An Excellent Watch
50/-
Guaranteed 3 Years’ Free Repair.
JEWELLER,
iCIOQf.
kMAKER/
s%
SYDNEY’S LEADING JEWELLER.
507.809.811.813.815.817. GEORGE ST. (Opposite Railway Sration) SYDNEY.N.S.W.
SILVERSMITH
t ONSUL77/v c I


To JAVA,
“The Garden of the East,”
—by the ——
“ROYAL PACKET”
* It *4aA4
*
' • \
REGULAR MONTHLY SAILINGS for . . .
Java arid Singapore,
via Queensland Ports, Port Moresby, Thursday Island, Port Darwin and Dobo,
by the Magnificent New Steamers
Van Linschoten and Van Waerwyck.
These Steamers are specially built and equipped for voyaging in the Tropics.
Large, airy two-berth cabins, all situated on the upper deck, and provided with
electric fans and large windows. No port-holes. No inside cabins.
Spacious promenade decks.
Passage Tickets interchangeable with Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.
FORTY-SIX REGULAR MAIL SERVICES
throughout the Thousand Islands of the Malay Archipelago. Maintained by 64 Modern
Mail Steamers. Total tonnage, 103,900 gross.
For further information apply to
ROYAL PACKET S. N. CO.,
7 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
JOHN SANDERSON & CO., Melbourne; BIRT & CO., LTD., Brisbane;
ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide ;
EARP BROS. & CO., LTD., Newcastle.
sfd
sfd
If so, Why not purchase a musical
instrument that is easy to learn, has a
wonderful VOLUME OF TONE
Melba
The Accordeon
with
The Silver Tone
are just perfection for song accompan-
iment, dance and picnic music, grand
organ-like tone. 3 popular models.
The organ-toned Melba, 3 sets Bell
Metal Reeds, price 22/6 post free.
The Dance King, 4 sets Bell Metal
Reeds, price 30/- post free.
The Picnic Model, 2 sets Bell Metal
Reeds, price 15/- post free.
OTHER MODELS—ALL PRICES—ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE POST FREE.
Sole Agents, ALLAN 8* CO., P’ty. Ltd., 276-8 Collins St., Melb., Bendigo, Geelong.
JERDAN’S “HOME” BATTERY
fd
is Recommended
to Every Family.
You NEVER know when Headaches
or Nervous Collapses—attacks of In-
somnia—are likely to occur.
In ALL these cases Jerdan’s “Home' 1
Battery will give instant relief, and in
the end a speedy cure.
The working is extremely simple—
and it can be suited to the wants of both
adults and children.
Price 35/-
Post
Free.
LET US SEND YOU OUR
FREE BATTERY BOOKLET.
JERDANS
“ My Opticians,”
Opticians and Electricians,
393 George Street
(Facing
Royal Hotel),
Sydney.
A MONTHLY GUIDE for everything Aus-
tralian. That’s The Lone Hand. “A
marvellous sixpenn’orth ! ”
Books worth reading. The
guide to the new fiction appears in
issue of The Lone Hand.
new
each
C \M- APPo "vr^
ra
HER EXCELLENCY
THE COUNTESS OF DUDLEY.
STEIDLE & LUX
(P. LUX, Proprietor),
294 Collins Street, Melbourne,
Telephone 3429. THE BLOCK.
Ui
o*J
s'
fd
Switches of
Natural
Wavy
Hair from
3 Guineas
Upwards.
F you want your hair dressed in the very latest mode, and you
wisely decide to invest in Artificial Hair Accessories, visit the
Maison STEIDLE & LUX,
or write for ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.
fd
PfUMLi
a
i
-Si
= <
<M e
-
**
<i
’i3
*
Li
-
lH
r?:S)
ws®
ui**
.22 CALIBER RIFLES?
Models 1902 and 1904 and Automatic
With a great many shooters, it is not so much
a question of which make of .22 caliber rifle to
get, but which Winchester .22. The cost some-
times decides this. Winchester Single Shot Rifles,
Models 1902 and 1904, are low in price but durable
and accurate. They shoot .22 Short and .22 Long
rimfire cartridges, and are used extensively for
shooting rabbits and for target shooting. They
have the strong and simple Winchester bolt action,
which has been widely imitated. The Winchester
.22 Automatic Rifle costs more, but it is the
only automatic shooting inexpensive rimfire
cartridges, and is a strong, accurate and reliable
shooter. It holds ten shots, which are fired by
simply pulling the trigger for each shot. This
is the most modern of modern rifles.
WINCHESTER RIFLES ARE SOLD EVERYWHERE.


ALCOCK’S
Billiard Tables
I
T?
THE business man finds recreation and respite
from the worries of the day in billiards. Then
friends meet and together enjoy the game that
calls forth skill, judgment and concentration.
On an Alcock table the balls run perfectly, the
angles are accurate and play beautifully, adding
materially to the enjoyment of the game.
In the hotel—in the club—in the home—
wherever men largely congregate, there an Alcock
Billiard Table is usually found.
These are the same tables on which George
Gray, the Australian champion, first became famous
for his record breaks.
The “ Bijou ” is a favorite home billiard table,
fitted with fast running cushions, superfine billiard
cloth, and faultlessly finished.
Write for Illustrated Billiard Catalogue.
ALCOCK & CO. PTY. LTD.,
BILLIARD TABLE MANUFACTURERS,
397 George St., Sydney. 114 Edward St., Brisbane. Baker
Buildings, Featherstone St., Wellington. 155 Elizabeth St.,
Melbourne. 7 King William St., Adelaide. Murray St., Perth.
COLDS
sdg
SANACINE prevents the wasting and tearing of the Tissues that occurs in violent colds,
clears away the congested phlegm, and speedily allays irritation and inflammation of the
respiratory organs, and strengthens the linings of the throat and nose. Colds, Influenza,
Lung Weakness, Head and Chest Colds, throat weakness and more virulent forms
of colds immediately yield to the vigorous curative action of Sanacine. A few doses
taken in the early stages diminish the severity of an attack, and a rapid cure is assured.
sdsgd
Sanacine benefits
Russian Royal Family
A Court Official writes: “Sanacine was introduced
to the Russian Imperial Family, and they have found
great benefit from using it.”
gsd
SANACINE
NATURES LUNG HEALER
An Invaluable Remedy for
COUGHS
COLDS
ASTHMA
BRONCHITIS
CATARRH
INFLUENZA
CONGESTION
HOARSENESS
HUSKINESS
SORE THROAT
WHOOPINO COUGH
CHEST WEAKNESS
and all Disorders of the Lungs, Chest, and Throat.
Prices in Gt. Britain: Liquid and Tablets 1/1 j and 2/9. Sold by all Chemists, Stores, &c. in Australia.
ProprietorsASHTON & PARSONS, LIMITED, LONDON. E.C., ENGLAND
The Farmers* Fertilizers
Corporation Limited
(Registered under the Companies .Acts of N.S.W.)»
Capital : £150,000 in £1 Shares, 50,000
Shares being' Held in Reserve.
46,000 Ordinary Shares,
And 25>000 Preference Shares
(conferring the right to a fixed cumulative preferential dividend from date of Allotment
at the rate of 6 per cent, per annum, and to rank equally with ordinary shares for any
additional dividends after payment of 12 per cent, to Ordinary Shareholders)
ARE NOW OFFERED TO THE PUBLIC.
Of the balance of the Shares, 24,000 are specially reserved for Farmers and Agricul-
turists, and 5000 Ordinary Shares (fully paid up) issued to the Vendor.
DIRECTORS.
Arthur H. Hasell, Esq., Sydney.
(Managing Director).
W. J. Newman, Esq., Grenfell.
E. J. Lowe, Esq., “Birriwa,” Mudgee.
Aid. J. C. Reid, J.P., Newcastle.
Geo. Brunskill, Esq., Coolamon.
Thos. King, Esq., West Wyalong.
S. J. Perrw Esq., Melbourne.
H. B. Coward, Esq.. Forbes.
A. V. Booth, Esq., Wagga.
Bankers: The Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney, Ltd. Solicitors: Messrs. J. K.
Baxter, Bruce and Co., Sydney. Auditors, Messrs. Kent, Brierley and Sully, The
Strand, Sydney.
SUBSCRIPTION: 2/6 per share on application, 2/6 per share on Allotment, and the
balance by calls of 2/6 per share, as required, at intervals of not less than four
months.
OF TIIE 24.000 ORDINARY SHARES RESERVED FOR FARMERS AND
AGRICULTURISTS, 12,300 HAVE ALREADY BEEN APPLIED FOR AND AL-
LOTTED to about 300 FARMERS, and applications are being received daily for the
balance.
THE CORPORATION HAS BEEN LAUNCHED FREE OF EXPENDITURE;
NO CASH BEING PAYABLE IN RESPECT OF PURCHASE CONSIDERATION.
THE WHOLE OF THE MONEYS RECEIVED WILL BE AVAILABLE AS
WORKING CAPITAL, LESS PROMOTION EXPENSES.
OBJECTS:
THE MANUFACTURE AND SALE OF ACIDS, SUPERPHOSPHATES and
OTHER MANURES. It is proposed to acquire a site in a suitable locality in N.S.W.,
and TO ERECT A FACTORY with all possible speed.
The Corporation has ACQUIRED AS A GOING CONCERN the GOODWILL and
TRADE MARK of Mr. Arthur H. Hasell’s Fertiliser Business in N.S.W., with a
TURNOVER OF OVER 6000 TONS. The Corporation thus secures A READY
MARKET for ITS OUTPUT, without the enormous expense and loss of time of putting
a new brand on the market.
The marvellous rapidity with which the cultivation of Wheat and other Crops has
spread in this State, and throughout the Commonwealth, combined with the
GENERAL USE OF SUPERPHOSPHATES,
has caused the demand for this Fertiliser to GREATLY EXCEED THE LOCAL
SUPPLY. The great future of the industry must be obvious to everyone, in view of the
vast tracts of agricultural lands in this State at present awaiting development. A ready
sale is assured of all acids manufactured, the present demand exceeding the supply.
AT PRESENT, THERE IS ONLY ONE FACTORY for the manufacture of
superphosphates IN THIS STATE, whilst Victoria has four; South Australia, four; and
Western Australia, two; which are paying handsomely.
The estimated cost of land, plant, buildings, raw materials, etc., required for the
proper establishment of the Corporation’s operations is £50,000.
THE NETT PROFITS at the end of the first year of manufacture, ON A CALLED-
UP CAPITAL of £50,000, are estimated AT 18 PER CENT.
It is proposed to grant Special Rebates to Farmers and other Consumers (being
Shareholders), on their purchases, in order to make the business co-operative.
The usual brokerage will be allowed on applications received through members of
Stock Exchanges.
Full particulars will be given to intending investors on application.
APPLICATIONS FOR SHARES may be made direct to the Secretary, or through
any member of the Stock Exchange in Australasia, or through the Corporation’s Bankers,
Sydney, or any of their Country Branches.
ARTHUR S. DICKSON,
Secretary.
REGISTERED OFFICE—2 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
PALMER
CORD
TYRES.
gsďgs
THE
BEST
TYRES.
USED ON THE KING’S CARS.
Palmer Cord Tyres.
Only those tyres which have PROVED better than all others have the honor
of our King’s patronage
Palmer Cord Tyres must, by reason of their unique and ingenious construction,
last longer and give greater satisfaction than those built upon a canvas foundation.
Apply for New Reduced Price List issued under date Ist May, 1911.
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER CO.,
279 GEORGE STREET SYDNEY and at 33 Bolton Street, Newcastle.
GET A “PLUM” RAZOR NOW.
YES, get a lovely little “PLUM”— the Razor that just
glides over the toughest stubble and never drags a
single hair. We put the edge on each razor before it
goes out, and, being practical hairdressers, know how to do
so. We guarantee to keep all “ Plums ” sold in order for
two years free of charge.
gdsĝdg
The Plum Razor,
10/6
POST FREE
ANYWHERE.
Send for our Free
Illustrated Price
List.
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-
PLUM RAZOR, in Case, 10/6.
Pair in Case, 21/-
SAFETY RAZORS from 5/6.
The Plum Razor Strop, 10/6 and 7/6.
Other good kinds from 3/6 each.
Universal Shaving Soap, 6d.
Razoleo Lightning Sharpener, 6d.
All the above Post Free.
We Grind and Set V* each
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George St., Sydney.
Established
30 Years.


The Elite
Eau deCologn
m
K
UDECGIOCNI
*w
FIDELITAS
WJI
F.WOLFFsSOHN
■Karlsruhe
Baden
■
Triumph of
Modern Science
Obtainable from all leading establishments
The Body-Building
Power of
BOVRIL
The Standardised BEEF FOOD.
sgds
■Thus; If this ref re-
sents the amount of
Bovril taken
dsdg
' This outline dia-
gram represents
the actual
hODY-BUILD-
J NG POWER .
This diagram illustrates the
actual body-building power of
Bovril, proved by recent
independent physiological
experiments to be
10 to 20 times
tlis amount taken.
Bovril, Ltd , . hold the Royal Warrant of
Appointment to His Majesty King George V.,
an A ppointment also held for many years
from the late King Edward VII.
aW*O [JWa
•ilSiVi RJ ty
V
V
INFLAMATION
of the Knee
CURED BY
Solomon
Solution
“Sometime ago I suffered from
a swollen knee. Constant walking
on the hard pavements caused
iuflamation to set in. I consulted
a doctor, but without relief. A
friend advised me to use SOLOMON
SOLUTI ON. I am pleased to say I did,
with the gratifying result that
after a few applications I was
cured and have had no return of
the pain since.”
(Signed) J. J. Lloyd.
South Melbourne.
Obtainable in 2/6 Jars from Store-
keepers and Chemists; post free
for 3/- from
SOLOMON COX & SON
439 Bourke St., Melbourne
A
-±
A
3^)
L. R. W.
“LINSEED Kay's
Compound Essence of Linseed for Coughs and Colds.
SENSATIONAL TERMS!
SUBDIVISION OF THE FAMOUS and WELL-KNOWN
Felton Estate
DARLING DOWNS, QUEENSLAND
For 25 Years the home of the late HON. JAS. TYSON, M.L.C., the
place which he called "THE GARDEN OF AUSTRALIA,” situated
dose to the Sydney-Brisbane Railway Line, 18 miles South of Toowoomba
Comprising' 34*500 Acres Freehold
WILL BE SOLD BY AUCTION AT
CAMBOOYA, on THURSDAY, 29th JUNE, 1911
At 1 p.m., on arrival of the Brisbane Mail Train.
In blocks of from 80 to 3,000 Acres (which includes the Homestead Portion).
Southbrook Railway Station only 3 miles from the Estate, Broxburn Rail-
way Station 4 miles, Pittsworth Railway Station 5 miles, Cambooya Railway
Station 6 miles, Greenmount Railway Station 4 miles, Nobby Railway Station
6 miles, and Clifton Railway Station 10 miles.
Cheese and Butter Factories at Pittsworth and Southbrook. Butter Factory
at Clifton, and Cheese Factories at Cambooya and Greenmount.
This is, without doubt, the best property on the Darling Downs, and was one
of the earliest properties made Freehold by the late Hon. Jas. Tyson when he
had the pick of the whole of the Country.
The whole of the Estate is admirably adapted for Dairying, LUCERNE
GROWING, Maize, Wheat, Barley, Oats and Potatoes, and a large area
of the country is ready for the plough.
Ideal Fattening, Breeding, and Lamb-raising Country.
Watered by Hodgson’s Creek, a never failing stream running through the
centre of the Property.
Subartesian Water easily obtained all over the Property at from 30to Bofeet.
Rainfall averages over 30 inches per annum.
HOTE THE REMARKABLE TERMS.
TERMS :-15 Per Cent. DEPOSIT, NO FURTHER PRINCIPAL FOR
10 YEARS at buyer’# option; Interest at 5 per cent, payable half-yearly.
Recognised Agents, buying for or influencing buyers to purchase, will
receive one-half commission.
NO LAND TAX.
Facilities to inspect, and for further information, lithographs, etc., apply to
Felton Estates Office, Cambooya, or
THE AUSTRALIAN ESTATES & MORTGAGE GO. LTD.
1 Auctioneers, BRISBANE. Q.
c
n
m
m
&
\Ei&
ACIC|
YSTERY
AND
IRT/t
YOU all know the “ man who does the
tricks” at the party—don’t you?
Makes everybody laugh, puzzles and tricks
them, and they can’t tell how he does it.
YOU can be as clever and funnj as he by
the use ol our Tricks, Novelties and Magic Surprises. Very simple if you follow the instructions with each
Write for Free Catalogue of Makers
of Mirth and Mystery.
The Wonderful Gyroscope and
Mono=rail Top.
Perfect demonstration of the railroad of
the future. This marvellous top defies
the laws of gravity and equilibrium.
Spins in any position—on top of finger,
end of nose, edge of tumbler, etc. Baffles
Science, delights children, astounds
adults. The more you spin it, the more
it will puzzle you.
Post Free 1/3, or Larger Size, 2 3
Chinese Ring Bar Puzzle.
Endless amusement. The idea is to
remove the handle from the rings. Looks
so simple, yet puzzles them all till they
know how. Well made of solid polished
brass. Fits vest pocket. Write for it
to-day, enclosing stamps for amount.
1/- Post Free.
The Wizard Fortune-
Telling Cards.
Endless interest. Lends
a new charm to pre-
dicting fortune. Sim-
ple to use.
*. /
X* r V - *
i\
m
The Wonderful Plate=Lifter.
Will make your friends’ plates and cups dance quite
unexpectedly as they sit at meals. No
one can see the cause ; works quite im-
perceptibly from the other end of the
table. Shrieks of laughter. 1/- post free.
Wondrous Disappearing
Handkerchief Trick.
This handkerchief makes anythin"
disappear. Very effective.
1/3 Post Free.
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
(H. L. HUTCHINSON, LTD.)
710 GEORGE STREET,
111 KING STREET,
25-27 OXFORD STREET,
SYDNEY.
THE LONE HAND offers you the Glad
Hand. It’s the Right Hand, and a week
after publication there are none left.
WHENEVER you see a bear with a Con-
tinent on his back, think of THE LONE
HAND. It’s swag is a Continent.
MEDLOW BATH, Blue Mountains, N.S.W
MAJESTIC HOTEL.
COMPLETE arrangements have been made by the new proprietor (Mr. W. H. Burgess), late of the Grand
Hotel, Melbourne, for the comfort of visitors during the forthcoming season.
Medlow Bath is an ideal resort. The crisp mountain air is a delight, and the mountains, in their
Spring garb, appeal to lovers of the picturesque. Arrangements can be made at the Hotel for motors,
carriages and riding tours. '
Motor parties can be arranged any time to start from the City Office—or your own residence—direct
to the Majestic Hotel.
To pedestrians Medlow offers ever-varying attractions. The views in the mountains are superb, and
hours can be spent in walks through the Hotel grounds.
Hot-air pipes are laid in many rooms. Daily Motor trips are made from the Hotel to Jenolan Caves.
Further particulars can be obtained from the Hotel, or from the Sydney Offices, 42 Gastlereagh Street.
, W. H. BURGESS, Proprietor.
NEW
Queensland Railways.
Thousands of men will be working on
these shortly, and the wise ones will
wear our
Signal Brand
Boots
especially made for this work.
EACH PAIR GUARANTEED.
Take no other brand if you wish for
satisfactory wear.
Demand them from your storekeeper.
MADE WITH UNION LABOR.
Have
Green
Soles.
fHE
(REGIS
o.H:a*
TERED)
Have
Green
Soles.
The Davey Halliday
c°-
v I f,
BRISBANE, Q.,
SOLE MANUFACTURERS.
ĝ
Are you
getting: thinner
If so there is something
wrong in the nourishing
department. Take a cup of
Van Houten’s Cocoa with
each meal and you will so,pn
notice an improvement. Van
Houten's Cocoa is a
delicious beverage.
It fortifies, strengthens and
equips the body for its daily
fatigues. Pure, easily digested
and not dear, because a little
goes a long way.
Refuse all substitutes.
Ask your grocer for a free'
> sample. t
LETTERS COPIED
WHILE WRITING
By Using: Your Own Letter
Paper, Invoices,
etc., WITH THE
NSC/200
Patent ZanetiC
copying Book
&
SS:
You simply insert)
your writing; paper
in the holder and write. Whereupon you secure by
the act of writing a perfect letter and a perfect copy
(which remains in the book). There is no sign of
copying or perforated edge.
Sample of the Celebrated Zanetic Paper which
produces this result free from
S.B. ZANETIC WORKS, Welford
Road, Leicester, England.
If stamped addressed envelope enclosed, one com-
plete NSC/100 Copying 200 full size lOin. x Bin.
letters, fm- 3/6 post free ; or Copying 400, 5/-.
WHOLESALE AGENTS WANTED.


I TORE THE FLESH"
Inching, Burning Skin Eczema.
Body, Legs and Arms One Mass
of Sores. Could not Sleep with
Constant Itch, Tried Cuticura
Remedies and in Less than One
Week Skin was All Right.
“It was in the latter end of the year 1908
that a nasty itch came through my skin, and
I scratched it until I tore
ss>
V
V'
-r*
[O
the flesh. I tried several
ointments to no effect. I
went to a skin hospital.
They advised me to go to
the Hospital, but
I refused. I could not
sleep with the constant
itch. I was that way until
on or about the month of
January. One day I
chanced to see in the
papers a singular case like
mine, but I gave it no
credence. At last I said,
M will try the Cuticura
Remedies.’ With the first wash and Cuticura
Ointment I used, I found their effects. 1 got
one box of the Ointment more, and in less
than one week the skin was all right, and
left no traces after it. I have not had a return
of the same since, and I shall always praise
the Cuticura Remedies as being the means
of my cure.” (Signed) John Tyrrell, 94,
Scotland Road, Liverpool, Eng., Apr. 9,1910.
In a later letter Mr. Tyrrell adds: “The first
appearance of my skin eczema was a burning
itch which I tore and left my body, legs and
arms one mass of sore’. It caused sleepless
nights, but now I can sleep as well as ever.”
A single cake of Cuticura Soap and box of
Cuticura Ointment are often sufficient, when
all else fails. Sold throughout the world.
Send to R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.,
for a liberal trial package of Cuticura Oint-
ment and a 32-page book on the treatment of
skin troubles. Potter Drug & Chem. Corp.,
Sole Props., Boston, U. S. A.
5
/^H^You^\
si
4gr
C.
Drß.AfcLENtf
, I C U.3.A.)
Mexican
WALNUT STAIN
for Grey Hair
IS THE
only permanent and really satisfactory
ONE SOLUTION Hair Stain
ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES
cus
When Marketing
do not forget the
BIRD’S CUSTARD
Powder the busy
howse wife’s never-
failing resource;
BIRD’S CUSTARD
with STEWED or
CANNED FRUITS
forms an Exquisite
Dish.
Birds
Custard Powder
“LINSEED COMPOUND” for Coughs and
Colds. Of proven efficacy for chest complaints.
*
-o
4/
#ATH?£
&
C°
0
WHOLESALE:
R. Reid & Co., Ltd.
Sargood Bros.
Alcock Bros., Ltd.
Petersen, Boesen
& Co., Ltd.
Etc.
RETAIL:
Everywhere, at 6d.
per tin—Black, Tan,
and Ox-blood.
£
-X
Vc.V
FOR
UNDERWEAR
RELIABILITY
To pay a ridiculously low price for your Under-
wear is to court disappointment perhaps worse !
Wolsey is not the lowest priced at the outset, but it is absolutely
reliable, therefore, cheapest in the end. Wolsey pure wool,
Wolsey fit, and feel, and finish, and wear have
collectively made Wolsey the most widely
selling brand of Underwear in the world.
THE WOLSEY GUARANTEE!
Every Wolsey Garment is guaranteed unshrinkable
both in wash and wear, and will be replaced
free if it should prove otherwise
Wolsey is obtainable at
any Store.
mm
UNSHRINKABLE
STEVENS
SINGLE-BARREL GUNS
No. 90, formerly No. 105,
without Automatic Ejector.
dgd
gd
gd
No. 95, formerly No. 107,
with Automatic Ejector.
In 12, 16 and 20 GAUGES
ORDER STEVENS
FROM YOUR
DEALER.
Write for Catalogue to
ARTHUR H. HILL, Australian Represent-
ative for Stevens Arms and Tool Co.,
Box 86, G.P.0., Adelaide, S. Australia.
Send lor latest Fire-
arm, Telescope and
Stevens-Pope Cata-
logues. [S
POT POURRI
Stands for Quality.
“3*l The Highest Product of the
Tobacco Blenders’ Art.
“POT POURRI ” Cigarettes. —The highest grade obtainable, at 6d. per packet of io ;
4/6 per ioo.
“ POT POURRI ” Cigars. —A fragrant smoke —3d. each ; 5 for 1/- ; 18/6 per 100.
“ POT POURRI ” Tobacco. — 4OZ. tins, 2/- ; Boz. tins, 4/= ; 8/= per lb. There is none
better than this—it is the BEST.
“POT POURRI” Pipes, Silver-mounted, superior quality, all shapes, 2/6 each.
“POT POURRI” always the same, always enjoyable.
Clients in country or other States ORDER NOW, and it will be
posted FREE by return, with Catalogue which will interest you.
A. A. MARKS, Sole Agent, 376 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
¥//
Ik
S fi
A
if
n
Is
«?/
l-ii \
v
PRICE
2/-
per
Pot.
Watch Your Skin Grow Clearer
Using soap and water only is expecting Nature to do too much.
Chaps, rough or red skin, sallowness, blotches, wrinkles, and
other unsightly skin conditions result from the presence of ex-
traneous matter which soap and water does not always eradi-
cate. Help Nature, and keep your skin in tone by using
Icilma Fluor Cream
(Greaseless). _
Every day, especially before going out, apply a little of the
cream, and enhance your beauty. Good for preventing
sunburn and freckles.
The native girl reminds you that ICILMA is
the product of a Natural Spring in Algeria.
SAMPLE OFFER. On receipt of 2d. in stamps a dainty
sample of Greaseless Cream will be sent by
ICILMA CO. Ltd., 139 York Street! SYDNEY.
♦
♦
One of the most
valuable foods known to
the Medical Profession. —“ The
Lancet ” describes it as “ Mr. Benger’s
admirable preparation.”
Benger’s Food is distinguished from the others by
the ease with which it can be digested and absorbed.
Benger’s Food is for Infants and Invalids,
and all whose digestive powers have become weakened
through illness or advancing age.
BENGER’S FOOD LIMITED, Otter Works, Manchester, England.
senger's$enger's Food is sold in tins by Druggists, etc., everywhere.
824
The Inky Way.
“Blue Blazes”: Whenever I see the “stand-by”
newspaper leaders appearing, such as “Warning to the
Tsar,” “The Crisis in Morocco,” “Guatemala’s Threat
to the Nations,” 1 think of dead John Farrell, when
he was on the editorial staff of the Sydney D.T.
Walking into the leader-writer’s room one evening,
John observed a young man diligently at work.
“What’s it to-night?” he asked. “Oh, nothing
much ; just putting the straight tip to the sick
Turk,” was the reply. “Good enough for the
cow,” said Farrell; “good enough. It’s a wonder to
me the paper’s stood the so long!”
“N.E.”: Have often wondered, apropos the
Wowser, why no one has fitted him v\ith Charles
Dickens’s description of Mr. Dumps in the Blooms-
bury Christening. Here it is: “He subscribed to
the Society for the Suppression of Vice, for the
pleasure of putting a stop to any harmless amuse-
ments ; and he contributed largely towards the sup-
port of two itinerant Methodist parsons, in the
amiable hope that, if circumstances rendered any
people happj' in this world, they might, perchance,
be rendered miserable by fears for the next.”
A facsimile of the Book of the Dead has recently
been added to the Nicholson Museum at Sydney Uni-
versity. It isn’t, as might be supposed, a copy of
the Federal Constitution, but of the papyrus of Ani
—a roll of Egyptian funeral texts and In Memoriam
notices, some of which are said to be older than the
oldest Egyptian kings, and the youngest of them is
so dead that it is impossible for even the editor of a
“Liberal” daily to say what he either contemplated
or didn’t contemplate. The immense facsimile is the
work of a modern old gentleman of 90, who has
imitated with exquisite care the tracings of the men
who lived and died 8000 years ago.
* * * *
As showing how the dog habit has taken hold in
I our grand old Mother Country, Public Opinion, a
popular London illustrated weekly, prints a page
headed “People and Their Dogs.” An avid public
is told of Lady Sybil Grant’s exceeding fondness of
her “purp” ; a touching description is given of the
new red coat worn by Miss Frances Moore’s Clumber
spaniel; and there are some chaste and comforting
I reflections on W. J. Pegg’s bull-terriers, and a few
kind words about Lady Mintmorton’s appearance,
sitting between her two superb Danes in a glorified
dog-cart in “the Park.” There are also some general
comments on the text, apparently, “What is home
without a mongrel?”
* * * *
“The Devil”: How does the country rag achieve
a living ? I’m working in an office where I have to
roll 230 papers every Friday night. When the old
Albion has pressed the last sheet, I have to turn
around and fold the mail. The subscribers’ book is
as follows: Exchanges, 40; quack and other ad.
firms, 30; occasional contributors, 15; subscribers,
' including 40 deadheads, 145. I, therefore, roll the
piece of boiled composition across the formes 125
times without assisting the office to make a penny
to pay a portion of my long-owing wages.
THE JOURNALIST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ Vanitas Vanitatum, dixit Ecclesiastes.”
—The Vulgate.
When I am hipped, and cross and sore
My very inmost mesoblast is,
I love to take the Book, and pore
O’er worldly-wise Ecclesiastes.
I like him in his Latin dress
(Which our good Padre is so sweet on),
Or in his Greek sonorousness—
Mataiotes Mataioteton.
But though these foreign vowels be
A tube to make his voice more eery,
In good Iving-James’s-English he
Is best when all the soul is weary ;
When all sweet things the dull hours lack,
And to disgust the sick hope wanders,
When Pessimist is written black
Across the brow of him that ponders.
Contempt of glory, scorn of power,
A sneer for wisdom proud and placid,
These things, through many an evil hour,
The Preacher wrote in biting acid.
Nay, shall it profit you the least
To conquer, or to aid, your neighbor?
For each shall perish like a beast;
So eat and drink, and end your labor.
Do men seek Virtue? Even so,
Since Vice will rack with pangs too furious;
And Charity’s a bribe you throw
To sullen Fate with hopes usurious.
Who bade this cynic grim and gaunt
Stalk through the Book they christen “holy”?
What jest did those old Fathers want
To play upon our pious folly?
The Canticle is ripe and red
With lips that cling and breasts that quiver,
And pleasant fruits hang overhead
Beside its honey-flowing river;
But lo 1 the Preacher turns his eyes
As ashes dead, than ashes colder;
And, terribly and sanely wise,
He brands “In vain” on Love’s warm shoulder.
For he found all things nothing worth,
Since all goes back to dust to-morrow;
As barren as a heart of mirth,
A heart in travail with dead sorrow ;
Yea, Pity’s self, with tender hand,
To whom all maimed mankind is crying,
Dies also; and the Preacher bland
Smiles faintly as he sees her dying.
The wind blows round and round; so rolls
The useless wheel of men’s unreason;
The greatest and the basest souls
Sprout, blossom, fall; and end their season.
God gives to naked Man a day
To hunt pale ghosts he cannot cherish,
Just long enough to learn to say,
“This too is vanity,” and perish.
So when my heart is sick and sad,
And thought too empty and too vast is,
I leave my pen and blotting-pad
And turn to old Ecclesiastes.
And in that smashing, smiting fist
That breaks through falsehood, flam, and
glozing,
I see a giant journalist,
And not a worn-out Sultan’s posing.
None but a journalist could drive
His ruthless pen through such recitals—
A cynic only kept alive
By tearing out Truth’s shameful vitals.
I see him at his brilliant worst,
Setting our tribe its cruel fashion,
The craft’s best penman, and its first;
No creed, nor greed, nor pride, nor passion.
One day we serve the needs of Time,
Things sterile, whether dull or splendid.
“This too is vain.’-’ The hollow chime
Rings pitiless, and all is ended.
You ask me where a copy of
The Ancient Hebrew Thunderblast is?
I bid you take the Book I love
And read your grim Ecclesiastes.
VICTORIA.
PRIAM.


Legal Notices.
WILLIAM ALMOND.
BY an Order of the Chancery Court of
the County Palatine of Durharn (Eng-
land) made on the 17th day of October
1906. In the matter of the Trusts of the
Will of JOHN ALMOND of the Queens
Head Inn West Auckland in the County
of Durham Innkeeper deceased an inquiry
was directed whether WILLIAM ALMOND
hereinafter named survived the above-named
John Almond and whether he is now living
or dead and if dead when he died and who
are his legal personal representatives.
Information is requested as to the where-
abouts of the said William Almond if alive
or if dead as to when and where he died and
who are his legal personal representatives.
The said William Almond or any person
or persons claiming under him are person-
ally or by their Solicitors on or before the
80th day of October 1911 to come in and
as to the said William Almond establish
his identity and as to any other claimants
prove their claims at the Chambers of the
Registrar of the said Court No. 19, El vet
Bridge in the City of Durham, England, or
in default thereof such order will be made
in the premises as the Justice of the Case
mav require.
Friday the 10th day of November 1911
at half-past 11 o clock in the forenoon at the
said Chambers is appointed for hearing and
adjudicating upon the Claims.
Dated the 12th day of April 1911.
A. O. SMITH,
Registrar.
The said William Almond is believed to
have been born at Smethwich near Birming-
ham in England about 57 years ago, and
was a nephew of the said John Almond. He
was a Forgeman and lived for some time at
Lemington-on-Tyne and Consett both in
England and he went to Australia about
1891 and may have left there for South
Africa about seven years ago. If he was
alive on the 26th day of November 1908
he became entitled to a sum of upwards of
£3OO as part of the residuary estate of the
said John Almond.
GEO. WM. JENNINGS,
10, Market Place,
Bishop Auckland (England).
Solicitor for the Plaintiff.
gd
Turn
"TRO This
Button.
Pen
Fills
Itself.
gds
THE. ..
“MODERN”
AUTOMATIC
SELF-FILLING
FOUNTAIN
PEN
A FOUNTAIN PEN that
gives better .service
and less trouble in fill-
ing. This you will find in
the Modern Automatic
Self-Filling Fountain Pen.
Simply twist end, hold pen
in ink, untwist, and the pen
is filled. No joints to leak,
and the soft rubber reservoir
which contains the ink is
guaranteed for five years.
This pen has met with the
highest approval of users in
America and Europe, and
can be obtained in all styles
of holders and points.
» Address:
Modern Pen Company,
Sole Selling Agent for
A. A. Waterman & Co.,
NEW YORK.
22 THAMES STREET,
NEW YORK, U.S.A.
If it isn’t an A. A. it isn’t a
“MODERN.”
Reliable, firms can secure
the agency for this service-
able pen, and we are supply-
ing an artistic showcase to
dealers carrying our line.
Write us for particulars.
We Also manufacture a com-
plete line of standard and’
safety types. [3
śgd
“Titan” Sheet
Packing.
PERDRIAU “TITAN” SHEET PACKING
for high-pressure- steam, hot air, hot water
joints. The most effective and economical
jointing made and adapted for any class of
joint. Will conform to any roughness or
unevenness of flange surface, thus obviating
the necessity of facing a joint. Much better
results will be obtained by rlie use of “Titan ”
Sheet than by the use of ordinary rubber inser-
tions. In actual use “ Titan ” Sheet is the more
economical because of its greater durability
and reliability. Made in sheets 3ft. wide (plain
or metallic), in any thickness l-3”in. to Jin. :
price, 3/9 per lb.
Our Mechanical Rubber Goods List gives
details of the above and many other lines for
the use of engineers, etc. Gall or write for
a copy.
PERDRIAU RUBBER CO., LTD.,
“The Best House for all Rubber Goods,”
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LLOYD’S (Australia) LIMITED
(Registered under the Companies Acts)
CAPITAL, £,500,000.
Directors
FRANK GRIMLEY.
CALEB TERREY*
PHILIP HENRY MORTON.
JOHN UPWARD.
FREDERICK YELVERTON WILSON*
Secretary and Registered Office:
JOHN GOODWYN, A.1.A., 3 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
EXPLANATORY.
The principal object for which this Com-
pany has been formed is the introduction to
Australia of a safe and systematic method
of underwriting as applied to the business
of Company formation, and as the Austra-
lian public is only to a very limited extent
familiar with underwriting as carried on in
Europe and America, it will perhaps not be
amiss to preface this explanation with a
brief description of what is meant by the
term “underwriting” as so used.
Concisely stated it means insuring or
guaranteeing the successful flotation of ap-
proved Companies.
As in the business of ordinary Life or
Fire Insurance, the Insured pays to the
Company a premium for certain specified
benefits, so in the business of Company
underwriting the promoters of a proposed
Company pay to the underwriting Company
a premium for which the latter undertakes
to sell the shares underwritten to the
General Public by a certain date or in de-
fault of so doing to take up and hold them
itself until it can so dispose of them.
A REAL DEMAND.
In the past a certain amount of under-
writing has been done in Australia in a
rather haphazard way by individuals, either
at the solicitation of friends or in connec-
tion with Companies in which they have
been personally interested, but so far there
has been no large and well organised Com-
pany prepared to undertake the under-
writing of share issues as a business.
Consequently, when there has been a de-
sire to resort to this method of insuring
the success of projected flotations there ha-s
generally been as much difficulty in procur-
ing underwriting as in disposing of the
shares th'emselves, and many valuable op-
portunities have been lost owing to the
want of such facilities as this Company
offers.
Most business men have at one time or
another experienced the difficulty which
exists in carrying through a private flota-
tion of even the soundest venture, and as
very few firms or individuals are prepared
to face the discredit attaching to an un-
successful public appeal for capital, it fre-
quently happens that when underwriting
cannot be procured, advantageous oppor-
tunities have to be allowed to pass.
PUBLIC PROTECTION.
The investing public are apt to look with
suspicion upon the most genuine flotation
unless well-known names are associated
with it, a difficulty which this Company
will be in a position to overcome, as the
Directors will recommend to shareholders
and the public by their underwriting only
ventures that have stood searching enquiry,
and which they are satisfied are not over
capitalised or overloaded in any way. This
will not only protect the Company’s share-
holders, but should be a benefit and pro-
tection to the investing Public.
METHODS.
When underwriting the shares of any
Company to be formed, this Company will
adopt the practice upon which the Trustee
Companies work, and will retain the pro-
fessional men already associated with the
business introduced. The support of pro-
fessional men generally is anticipated, and
a large amount of business of the best
class should be secured through their in-
fluence.
SELECTION.
The Directors will carefully examine the
merits of every proposal made to them, and,
when approved, will undertake the flotation
for a consideration payable in cash or
shares.
PRIVILEGES OF SHAREHOLDERS.
Lloyd’s shareholders will receive early
notification of each flotation underwritten,
and will be given the first opportunity to
take up the shares.
UTILITY.
To sum up, the Company appeals
TO INVESTORS.
The Investor who by virtue of his Mem-
bership in this Company will get the
earliest information about and first call on
all shares of the issues underwritten and
will be able to invest his money with the
confidence inspired by the fact that, after
full investigation, the Directors by un-
derwriting the issue have recommended it
as a genuine concern.
TO BUSINESS MEN.
The Professional or Business man who is
willing for a consideration to pledge his
credit to a small amount but has no time
or inclination to investigate personally
matters outside his own occupation, and
who through the Company will be able
to share in whatever underwriting profits
are to be made without the trouble or re-
sponsibility of having to decide for him-
self as to the merits of any individual
proposition.
TO BROKERS.
The Broker, who, when an issue is un-
derwritten, is certain that his labor will
not be in vain owing to the failure of
the flotation, as is often the case when an
issue is not underwritten.
Having thus briefly described the opera-
tions which it is proposed to undertake, it
is now necessary to show how they can be
carried out.
CAPITAL.
In the business of underwriting, a large
amount of money is not, as a rule, required,
hut it is essential to have a considerable
sum available in case of need.
The Capital of the Company has, there-
fore, been fixed at £500,000, of which it is
intended to issue £lOO,OOO in the first in-
stance.
CALLS.
The shares, £5O each, are issued on pay-
ment of an application fee of £5 per share
and a further £5 per share is callable as and
when the Directors think fit.
It is intended not to call up more than
£lO per share without first consulting Share-
holders.
Probably not more than £5 per share will
require to be called up.
it is intended to arrange any temporary
loans which the Company may require from
time to time either with individual members,
or with its bankers on the security of the un-
called capital.
LIMITATIONS.
In order that a large number of people
may be interested in the Company’s flota-
tions, the Articles provide that no share-
holder can hold more than 10 contributing
shares, but a Director must hold 10 contri-
buting shares, and shareholders will thus
have the satisfaction of knowing that each
Director is himself taking the maximum
risk in connection with every flotation.
PROFITS.
The scope for the Company’s operations
should be considerable.
During each of the last two years the new
Capital of Companies issued in New South
Wales alone has exceeded £7,000,000.
Assuming that one half of this amount was
offered to the Public and that this Company
had underwritten 5 per cent, of this latter
amount, at a commission of per cent., the
gross earnings would have been £13,125 per
annum.
Estimating expenses at about one-fourth
of this amount, a net profit of about £lO,OOO
per annum would have been secured.
SHARES.
The Company has been registered, and a
large number of substantial people have ex-
pressed their approval and promised to take
shares. To secure an interest in the Com-
pany, all that is necessary is to fill up the
attached form and forward it to the Secre-
tary with a cheque for the amount of the ap-
plication money.
PROMOTION EXPENSES.
All shareholders come in on an equal foot
ing, and there are no bonus or free shares oi
options on shares given for promotion pur-
poses.
The Company will pay the legal expenses
incidental to registration, estimated at about
£lOO, the cost of printing and circulating
this booklet and the usual brokerage of 2i
per cent, on Capital subscribed of the present
issue, which will be paid to the Secretary
in fully-paid shares, in return for which he
has agreed to undertake the entire work of
the flotation and to pay all expenses in-
curred in connection therewith, except as
above set forth.
The Directors do not propose to commence
business until at least three-fourths of the
present issue has been subscribed.
FORH OF APPLICATION FOR SHARES.
To the Secretary,
LLOYD’S (Australia) LIMITED, 3 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
I hereby apply for Shares in the above Company, and enclose cheque
f or £> > being application money thereon at the rate of £p per share.
I agree to accept the said Shares or any smaller number which may be allotted to me
and to be bound by the Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Company, and I request
you to register me as the holder of the said shares.
Dated this g a y 0 f s ign.
Name (in full) .
Address
Occupation
Signature
N.B. Exchange to be added to Inter-State and Country Cheques.
i f
faultless
LIGHTING.
We guarantee best pos-
sible results with a
Brandt’s Improved Acety-
lene generator, which goes
far to prove their perfec-
tion. Absolutely safe and
automatic, the models
embracing latest scientific
principles of simplicity,
durability and economy
in carbide consumption.
Write for Literature.
Brandt Bros., Ltd.,
236 Pitt St., Sydney.
Elizabeth St, Melbourne
The Right Volume of
Sound for the Home
HE most distinguishing feature of .
the Edison Phonograph is that the ►
volume of sound which it produces
is of exactly the right pitch for the
average home.
It is neither too loud nor too low— >
not squeaky or metallic—but just of
that natural, sweet, pleasing quality
which makes the hearers so enthusiastic
about the wonderful perfection of the
Edison Phonograph and Records.
Ask the nearest Edison dealer to ;
demonstrate the Edison Phonograph to
you. If you. do not know his address,
write us direct and we will tell you,
and also send latest lists of Edison'
Phonographs and Records.
The EDISON
Phonograph.
National Phonograph Co. of Australia, Ltd.
(Wholesale Only),
Dept. 8., 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
JUST OUT. Price, 12/6 Posted, 13/-
DROVERS’ GUIDE
By P. R. GORDON,
Late Chief Inspector of Stock ana Brands, Queensland
Containing the latest Stock Route Maps of New South
Wales and Queens'and, the new Queensland Maps
containing Stock Routes, Tanks and Dams, Main Roads,
Border Crossing Places, Bores, Trucking Yards, etc.
WATSON, FERGUSON & Co. Ltd. BRISBANE
£3
•It
r DIURETIC
KIDNEY&DMDDER
REM EDY
A CORRECTIVE
OF THE
(JRINARY
ORGANS
PM
IT IS
ALSO A
SPLENDID
TONIC
Obr&mcito/e o>// Cbpm/s/s
Sole Australasian Agents Z 5 YORKST.SYDNCY
Prompt Relief
from Rheumatism
LUMBAGO, SPRAINS,
AND ALL ACHES AND PAINS
Assured by Applying
S' JACOBS
Sold everywhere.
•II
MELTONIAN
creamH
Cannot becoualled
for renovating all
kinds of Glace Kid
Boot< and Shoe*.
(Obtainable in Black and White l .
LUTETIAN
CREAMH
gsd
I Made in light and dark colour*).
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
Made by the Manufacturers of the Celebrated
“ MELTONIAN ” BOOT POLISHES,
E. BROWN & SON, Ltd., LONDON. Eng.
“LINSEED COMPOUND.”— The “Stockport,
Remedy ” for Ooug-hs & Colds. Of 40 years’ proven efficacy.


Shipping;.
P. and O. BRANCH SERVICE
For DURBAN, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
* Twin-screw.
SALOON ACCOMMODATION, AMIDSHIPS,
CONVERTED INTO VERY SUPERIOR
ONE CLASS.
LONDON £l6, £lB and £2O.
CAPETOWN and NATAL £l3 135., £l5 15s. and £l7 17s.
CILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD., 7 Bent St
Mki,iiO')knk Abknts : JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William-street.
Adki.aidk & Fhkmanti.k Agkxts : GEO. WILLS & CO.
ORIENT LINE.
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN D.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy. New and luxurious
12,000-ton Steamers. Cabines-de-luxe ; State-rooms, with
bedsteads; Single Berth Rooms, Private Bathrooms;
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Sailing every fortnight from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Eta.,
12 Martin Place, Sydney.
Banking;, Public Companies, &c.
of |)ortb Queensland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY 7 .
Local Director :
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 4 QUEEN VICTORIA STREET, E.C.
Manager: R. R. LOVE.
Bankers: THE LONDON COUNTY & WESTMINSTER
BANK LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Bank of |)eui Z aalan d-
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
Total Capital Paid-up £2,000,000
Uncalled Capital £500,000
_ , v T-» ~ OQCtA IQA
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits £864,134
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking busin gs.
the:
Australian Bank nf Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 tinder the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL - - • £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,197,127
PAID-UP (31st December, 1910) - - £1,145,933
HEAD OFFICE—George and King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE—2 King William Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS—Sir Wilt.iam P. Manning, Kt., Chairman;
George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D. ; Ciias. H. Myles, Esq. ;
Mark Sheldon, Esq. ; Arthur S. Barton, Esq.; Frank
N. Yarwood, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the world.
A. P. STEWART, General Manager.
The ...
Queensland National Bank,
Limited
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0 i
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. •• 413,484 810
Reserve (in Gov. Stock) .. .. .. 94,000. 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock ..3,091,669 4-6
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
Directors: JAS. MILNE, Esq., Chairman; JAMES
MUNRO, Esq. ; Hon. A. J. CALLAN, Esq., M.L.C. ;
JOHN CAMERON, Esq. ; F. LORD, Esq.
General Manager —W. V. RALSTON.
Branches—London, Sydney & throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up £519,237 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. .. 161,384 0 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) .. 75,500 0 0
£756,121 0 0
HEAD OFFICE : BRISBANE. =====s-
- Mngr.: Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London,
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
The Qoloniat (|)utual tile
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and
Annuities without Mutual Liability; also
Accident and Sickness Assurance.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds. £3,219,446.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £5,300,000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New Sooth Wales :
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors :
The Hor. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon, Brock Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Recent Secretary.
Shipping.
REDUCED FARES
To EUROPE
BT
Nord D eutscher Lloyd.
PASSENGERS booked to Egypt, Naples,
Genoa, Algiers, Marseilles, Gibraltar,
London, Antwerp, and Bremen.
w Fitted with “ Wireless” installation.
* Fitted with Gymnasium.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
REGULAR FOUR • WEEKLY MAIL
SERVICE from Sydney and Brisbane, via
New Guinea, by Twin-screw Steamers.
For Passage and Full Particulars apply to—
LOHMANN & CO., General Agents,
7 & 9 Bridge Street, Sydney ;
OSTERMEYER DEWEZ & VAN ROMPAOY, Melbourne ;
H. MUECKE & CO., Adelaide ;
L. RATAZZI & CO., Perth and Fremantle;
THOS. BROWN & SONS, Ltd., Brisbane and Townsville.
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS—New
Series. IV., V.. VI. Packet of Twelve,
6d. ; Packet of Ten, sd. Forwarded Post Free
to any address.
TN€ AB€RD€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth and
London.
PISCHAEGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLINC AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
o Fitted Wireless Telegraphy,
f One Class Only. * Not taking Passengers.
FARES — Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. ». From £57 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Oape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Special Return Tickets available for outward passage
by Orient Line—£ll2 (First-class each way); £B5
(Second-class Orient.).
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
DALCETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN, PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
sgd
Twin-screw Steamers.
MEDIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
July ,5.
AFRIC, i 2,000 tons, to sail about
August 2.
SUEVIO, PERSIC and RUNIC to follow.
Pitted with Wireless Telegraphy and
Submarine Signalling Apparatus.
Only One Class of Accommodation.
FARES— Capetown or Durban *l5 15 0 to £24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
Melbourne . .. .. 1 10 0
New York, Boston, Quebec,
Montreal. &c. from 25 0 0
Pamphlets and all other information on application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing,
DALGETY & COMPANY, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
* YOUR WINTER
HOLIDAY.
SEND for our Booklet, “Papua and the
Pacific Islands, How to visit them?”
describing many delightful Island trips from
£lO upwards. Most attractive as Winter
Holiday Cruises.
■7)'<
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., 11 Bridge St., Sydney.
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
HEAD OFFICE: MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
MONEY TO LEND
To Farmers and Settlers from £5O to £2OOO,
repayable by instalments extending: over 30 years
with right to repay loan without penalty.
Partial repayments on favorable terms.
Low rates of interest.
Valuation Fees on lowest scale.
On Investment up to £25,000 for fixed terms not
exceeding five years on Freeholds or Certificated C. is.
and Associated C. L’s. Interest payable half-yearly.
Right to repay one-fifth of principal each year
allowed.
Lowest current rates of interest.
Full particulars and forms of application for loans obtainable at any Branch or Post
Crown Lands Agents and at the Head Office, MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
Office Agency, or from
J. 11. Davikb, Secretary.
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
sgd
£2,913,820
£1,950,000
£2,913,820
£7,7 77,640
DIRECTORS:
The Hon. C. K. MacKellar, M.L.C., President.
Senator The Hon. James Thomas Walker.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, lit., M.L.C.
Auditors.: Alfred George Milson, Esq. ; William Harrington Palmer, Esq.
Head Office—George St., Sydney. London Office—64 Old Broad St., E.C.
With 330 Branches in all the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji and Papua (New South Wales 105, Victoria 38,
Queensland 49, South Australia 5, West Australia 11, New Zealand 54, Tasmania, Fiji 3, Papua 2,
London 1); and Agents and Correspondents throughout the United Kingdom, Europe, India, China, Japan,
and the East, Africa, Canada, the United States, South America. Honolulu, and the West Indies.
Cable remittances made to, and Drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills negotiated and
collected Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
COlieci,cu. jucuuc.ov/ DTlaam 1. mUNHH (i»nsval Manawr.
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney, Limited.
Capita' Paid-up £1, 500,000 0 0
Reserve Fund ... ... 3,420,000 0 0
Reserve Capital .. ... 1,500,000 0 0
£4,420,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
George J. Cohen, Esq. .. •• Chairman.
Hon H E. Rater, M.L.C Deputy -Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C. A. J. Onslow Thompson, Esq.
Hon. James Burns, M.L.C.
Auditors : E. S.; Cape, Esq., and F. W. Hixson, Esq.
General-Manager : T. A. Dibbs.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
H. H. Massie.
Head Offiqe: George Street, SYDNEY.
Manager : A. J. Soutar.
Accountant : W. R. Sayers.
Secretary: M. S. Grant.
Branch Accountant : J. Clayton.
Inspectors:
W. C. B. Tiley, W. H. Pinhey.
London Office: 18 Bircliin-Lane,
Directors : F. H. Dangar, Esq. ; lion. H. S. Littleton ;
N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manager, F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
The METROPOLITAN
ACCIDENT, FIRE
and GENERAL
INSURANCE COMPANY, LIMITED.
THE CO-OPERATIVE FIRE OFFICE.
Shares Issued to Contributors of Bu-iness.
When Your Premium is Due Get Full Particulars.
HEAD OFFICE: 30 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
BRANCHES: Victoria, S. Aus., Queensland.
‘ COAGULINE,’ ‘ KLINX,’ ‘TEFASITINE’
•Cements for breakages, manufacturing purposes, etc.
THE OCEAN
Accident & Guarantee
Corporation Limited,
Ocean House, 22 Moore Street, Sydney,
Fire, accident, workmen’s com-
pensation, PUBLIC RISK, BUR-
GLARY and PLATE-GLASS INSURANCES
at Lowest Rates.
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.,
— FOR
Ordinary 8 Industrial Life Assurance.
Directors:
H. Montgomerie Hamiltok, Esq., Chairman.
Victor E. Ludlow, Esq., L.1t.C.5.1., L.K.Q.C.P.I.
Claude Manning, Esq.
John F. Ure, Esq.
General Manager: J. A. Henderi-on.
Secretary:
Freeman J. Eaton.
Consulting' Actuary
W. R. Day, F.I.A.
Head Office:
30 CASTLEBEACH ST. (facing Moore St.), SYDNEY.
Queensland:
Metropolitan Buildings,
Adelaide St., Brisbane.
Victoria:
48 Queen St.,
Melbourne.
The “Metropolitan” always has vacancies on its
Agency Staff for reliable and trustworthy men.
“LINSEED COMPOUND”. of 40 years' proven
efficacy, for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis, etc,
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports*
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
GERALDTON (W.A.)
S.S. Kanowna, June 24
(To Fremantle without
transhipment), connect-
insr with Koombana.
in Fremantle for North
West Ports.
BRISBANE
MACIvAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Oairns.
S.S. Innamincka, June 17.
S.S. Giantala, June 24.
(Fitted Wireless Tele-
graphy.)
Best and Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can he ascertained
on application at the Company’s Olfice.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
To VANCOUVER, via BRISBANE,
FIJI, and HONOLULU, thence
by Rail to any part of CANADA
or UNITED STATES.
The Best Route to Europe.
SAILINGS :
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
* Via Auckland, New Zealand ; omits Brisbane.
Illustrated Pamphlets Free on Application.
Agents throughout Canada, United States
and Europe—Canadian Pacific Railway Co.
For full particulars apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George-sLreet, Sydney.
F.—H. —vS.
Federal-Houlder-Shire Lines.
STEAM TO LONDON
Via SUEZ CANAL.
S.S. “FIFESHIRE,”
10,000 Tons. E. T. Crkmer,, Commander.
Will be ..espatched from BRISBANE about 21st June
~ „ SYDNEY .. sth July
„ „ MELBOURNE „ Bth July
„ „ „ ADELAIDE „ 11th July
The saloon accommodation consists of all two-berth
cabins on the upper deck, situated amidships.
The superior third-class accommodation, comprised of
two, four and eight-berth cabins, situated on the main
deck, amidships, with dining room on the upper deck.
Well lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious decks.
Third-class passengers supplied with fresh provisions
from cool chamber throughout the voyage. Surgeon and
Stewardess carried. Electric light throughout. Return
and Round Trip tickets issued via Cape and (or) Suez
routes. Prepaid passages arranged.
Saloon. Third Class.
FARES .. .. £49 10s. £l3 13s. £l5 15s. £l7 17s.
Steerage fares from Brisbane One Guinea extra.
To be followed at regular four-weekly intervals by fast
twin-screw passenger steamers. For further information,
illustrated books, pamphlets, etc., apply to
BIRT & CO., Ltd., Svdnev ;
TURNBULL, MARTIN & CO., Brisbane;
H. JONES & CO., Ltd., Hobart;
McILWRAITH, McEACHAItN & Co., Ltd., Melbourne;
ELDER, SMITH & Co., Ltd.. Adelaide.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Gollins-st, Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £lO,OOO 0 0
Directors : R- Murray Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Chairman ;
John Grice, Esq.,-Vice-Chairman ; Hon. J. M. Pratt; J. H.
MacFarland, Eso., M.A., LL.D. ; Alexander M'Cracken.
JAMES BORROW MAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
'EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda., Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
Grand Central Hotel
ADELAIDE
To be opened on the 20th JUNE, 1911.
THIS Hotel is the best appointed in the Common-
wealth. CENTRAL AND COMFORTABLE.
Magnificent Dining; Hall, Elegant Drawing-
room, Spacious Winter Garden and Lounges, Pro-
menade and Garden Roof, and Sumptuous Guest
Apartments. EXCELLENT CUISINE.
Private Dinners, Afternoon Teas, At Homes and
Wedding Parties a Specialty.
Hot and cold water throughout. Elevators work-
ing day and night. One minute from Electric Car.
Tariff from 12/- per day.
D. WALKER BELL, Manager.
“ rriHE Australian thinks in Continents,because
| he is the only man who has a Continent
to think in.” THE HONE HAND is the only
Magazine that eaters for a Continent.


gds
The KODAK is the Camera
for Particular People!
There are several points of superiority about Kodak Cameras which we would like you to
remember.
In the first place, the construction of the Kodak is high-grade in every detail. These cameras
are made to produce first-class results and to last for years.
Then they are made with a view to simplicity. Nothing unnecessary is included in their equip-
ment, and they are not in any way complicated. The tyro in photography can secure good
pictures right from the very start.
The Kodak daylight plan of photography completes the chain of perfection. The darkroom
is obsolete because the Kodak has made it so.
Every operation, from loading the camera to finishing the picture, can now be carried out in
complete daylight, that is, if your camera is a Kodak.
Look for the name “ Eastman ”on the camera you buy. It is a guarantee of efficiency and
reliability. Remember, all Kodaks are cameras, but all cameras are not Kodaks.
Brownie-Kodaks from 5/- ; regular Kodaks from 26/-. Ask the Kodak dealer nearest you for
further details, or write us direct for a free copy of our new 400-page Catalogue.
“If it isn’t an Eastman, it isn’t a Kodak! ”
Austral Dry Plate Competition.
£270 IN PRIZES.
Full details will be found in the current issue of the
“Australasian Photo-Review,” or a pamphlet giving
complete particulars may be had free upon application.
The No, 3 Folding: Pocket
Kodak Camera 725. 6d.
The No. 3 Folding Pocket Kodak takes splendid
pictures, measuring 3%'m. x 4%in. —the popular
quarter-plate size—and has a capacity of 6 or 12 ex-
posures without re-loading. It is fitted with a Rapid
Rectilinear Lens of good quality, a F. P.lv. Auto-
matic Shutter, brilliant reversible View Finder, two
Tripod Sockets, and an Automatic Focussing Lock.
The total weight is only M , _ _ _
2 3 0 z., and the Price . . £ 3 12S. 6d.
The No. 3a Folding Pocket
Kodak Camera 90s.
The No. 3a Folding Pocket Kodak is the most popu-
lar of all cameras ; takes the full-size postcard picture,
3X* n - x Provided with every feature for the
most serious work, yet so simple as to be effectively
handled by a novice. Equipment includes double
rapid rectilinear lens, Kodak automatic shutter,
automatic focussing lock, brilliant reversible finder
and tripod sockets. Price . . _
Postage extra, Is. 3d. £4 8 OS.
KODAK (Australasia) LTD.,
Incorporating: Baker
& Rouse Prop. Ltd.,
379 George St., Sydney. “The Block,” 284 Collins St., Melbourne. 37 Rundle St., Adelaide.
78-80 Queen St., Brisbane. Ruthven St., Toowoomba. Flinders St., Townsville. 346 Argent St., Broken Hill. 6 Mercer St., Wellington, N.Z.
J492s—lscfc. Gold, Pearl and Blue Tour-
maline set Pendant, £2/2/-
Gl6Bo—Pearl and Tur-
quoise set, 15et. Gold
Pendant, 70/-
04178—15 ct. Gold (Palm Leaf) Brooch
Pendant, set with Pink and Green
Tourmalines and Fine White Pearls,
£7/10/-
Fullest Value —Finest Quality.
The purchasing power of ten large establishments is greater than
that of one. There are ten large Stewart Dawson establishments in
different parts of the world, the buying for which is controlled in
London. When you come to compare our prices with other prices,
carefully keeping in mind the quality and merit of design, the inevitable
conclusion you arrive at is the superiority in value and quality of all
“Treasure House” goods. Send for our Illustrated Catalogue.
J4l8 —Fine Diamond,
Pearl and Olivine
Pendant, £lB/10/=.
J323X—9ct. Gold Pen-
dant, set Amethysr,
Green Tourmalines
and Pearls, 25/-
H 2079 —9ct. Gold Plain Baud Bangle, £1 7s. 6d. Others
from 21/- to 40/-
The “ Britannic” Expanriinsr Watch Bracelet, 9ct. Gold, with
fine Lever Movement., £B/10/- 15ct. Gold ditto, £l2/10/-
15ct. Gold, Pearl set, £lB/10/-
CsBBl—lsct. Gold and Turquoise set Bangle, £6/15/-
Ditto, 9ct. Gold, £5.
Stewart Dawson 8 Co.
(Australia),
Strand Corner, 412 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
J46B3—Oct. Gold, Pearl and Amethyst set
Necklet, £2/10/-
J299s—Fine Aquamarine
and Pearl set, loot. Gold
Pendant, £3/10/-


gds
For Colds
and Coughs
13 Stanley Street, Sydney.
Dear Sirs, —For colds and coughs Angier’s Emulsion is the best remedy
that I have ever tried. I am subject to colds on the slightest change in the
-weather, which causes me great annoyance. As a representative of the
Buyers’ and Sellers’ Directory of Australia, I am compelled to travel
constantly from one State to another, and it is a great boon to me to have
a remedy such as Angier's Emulsion. One thing I find about it is that,
unlike most emulsions, it does not repeat or make one feel sick, which is
greatly in its favour. (Signed) W. E. MASTERS.
ANGIEKOMULSION
Angier's Emulsion is a simple healing tonic that is soothing alike to throat, lungs,
stomach and intestines, an aid to appetite and digestion and an invigorating tonic and
restorative. By its soothing, healing action it relieves the cough, allays soreness and in-
flammation and promotes easy expectoration, while by its tonic properties it increases
vitality and enables the system to quickly throw off a cold and to resist further attacks.
Angier’s Emulsion is unequalled for colds, coughs, bronchitis, asthma and all lung
affections.
A FREE SAMPLE
on receipt of 4d. postage ; mention this paper.
THE ANGIER CHEMICAL CO., Ltd., 7 Barrack St., Sydney.
śgd
IWj
sgdsg
COMMON AMONG MINERS.
“Like many other miners I contracted a severe
cold through coming out of the hot mine into the
cool air,” says Mr. W. Crouch, of Tabina-street,
Broken Hill, N.S.W., “and at night I would get an
awful tickling in the throat and chest, but Chamber-
lain’s Cough Remedy was the means of giving im-
mediate relief from it, and quickly cured my cold.
No other medicine was able to do this, and I had
many bwttles from the doctor.”*
1
6
I
Ready-
to-Wear
or
Made-
to-Order,
7/6
THESE PYJAMA SUITS are made of
Osman Flannelette. They are well
and comfortably cut, and are made
in our own electrically-equipped workrooms.
We have a fine stock in all sizes, but if
you send your measurements we’ll make
yours to order.
At the same price ? Yes, sir !
Send for a couple of Suits and test the
Finney Service. For clothing needs “you
can’t beat Finney’s.”
Finney, Isles 8 Co.
LIMITED,
T SSJS t BRISBANE.
IN BANANA LAND
South Queensland is pre-eminently a land
of cheap living. At a case heard in Warwick
lately, reliable evidence was given to the
effect that the cost of feeding a dairy hand
in that district ran to only four shillings a
week, while a drover travelling in the locality
could be maintained for ss. Gd. a week.
“Stan”: Kindly remove the “big gun”
shearer from the limelight, and allow the ex-
peditious cane-cutter to appear. The rival-
ry of some of these mighty wielders of the
sabre is the lie direct to the Stout Persons
who pledged themselves that the white man
could not work in the canefields of the
North. With some misgiving as to the se-
vere handling my statement may get from
cutters, I nominate as the holder of the
biggest tally to date for cutting cane alone
(that is, without loading) Charley Steve, of
Innisfail (N.Q.). He cut (before wit-
nesses) IG tons of trashed cane in nine
hours, and is prepared to repeat the per-
formance for a payable wager.
“Yorky,” the one-armed fisherman men-
tioned in Banfield’s “ Confessions of a
Beachcomber,” had an experience not
mentioned in Banfield's book, which he
took great care didn’t recur. He was
returning from the mainland to Green
Island in his “flatty,” and in about
eight fathoms of water decided to do
a bit of fishing. Unfortunately, in throw-
ing the anchor, the hook attached to his
wooden arm caught in the anchor ring, and
he was compelled to follow the ironmongery
to the ocean bed. How he managed to un-
hook himself “Yorky” could never clearly re-
member, but it seemed to him half a life-
time before he bobbed up to the surface and
managed to climb aboard. Banfield, by the
way, has been tasting a few weeks’ civilisa-
tion down South, prior to returning to his
solitary islet. Since the “Confessions” made
such a success for itself, publishers have
cultivated the recluse, and a new book will
peer through the Fog in about a couple of
months’ time.
Died a few days back, at South Brisbane,
aged 83, T. F. Merry, the virtual founder of
the big Finney Isles firm. He arrived in
Melbourne from the Cold Country in 1851,
but went back, and didn’t reach Queensland
till 18G3. Among his fellow-passengers on
that second voyage were Thomas Finney
and James Isles. Opening a draper’s shop
in Fortitude Valley (Brisbane), he gave
Finney a job, and subsequently sold the busi-
ness to him and his shipmate Isles.
“M. T. Spaces” : The Queensland Univer-
sity was opened the other day with much
blare of official trumpets and a lavish dis-
play of gold braid, colored ribbon and
Maltese crosses. Almost on the same day
it was announced that the Lady
ford Milk Institute, which aimed at supply-
ing pure milk of good quality to poor
mothers, was closing down for want of
funds, and especially of a State subsidy.
Anyone who realises how great a propor-
tion of infantile mortality is due to a bad
milk supply will understand the folly of al-
lowing such an institution to lapse. A
few hundred babies saved by pure milk
should outweigh in usefulness all the
gerund-grinding professorial pedants in
Bananaland.
UNSOLVED.
“I hear you've been fight in with Mick. Who won?”
“ Well, whin I cem to me senses Mick was gone, so I don't know which wan ov us
got licked !”
Died, in Sydney, Charles Baldwin, who
was Queensland Parliamentary caterer for
47 years, and gave up the job only a few
months ago. During his term at Parlia-
ment House he saw 25 Ministries come and
go, alnd .mostly behave very unsteadily in
between.
The oldest graduate at the recent Queens-
land University celebrations was Dr. Hay,
Scotchbyterian meenister of Rockhampton
(Q.), who took his M.A. degree at St. An-
drew’s University (Scotland) as far back as
1853. An interesting family group at the
same/ function were Donald Cameron, M.A.,
formerly -headmaster of the Ipswich (Q.)
Grammar "School, and his three, sons, J. A.,
who is an M. 8.; W.E., who is an M.A.;
and D.A., who is M.B. All took ad eundum
degrees of the baby ’Varsity.
Maryborough is indignant with the census
returns, which indicate that it has about a
thousand people less than it had 10 years
ago. Maryborough statistics show that it
possesses 400 more houses than it did 10
years ago, and local aldermen, who are
whales on figures, reckon that on this basis
they must infallibly muster at least 2000
more of a population. Rumored that Mary-
borough intends demanding a fresh census.
Nogo Station, in the Longreach (Q.) dis-
trict, was sold the other day. Included in
it is a block known as Old Longreach, origi-
nally an out-station of Mount Cornish. On
this were old cattle-yards which were used
by a man who is said to have been the orig-
inal of Starlight in “Robbery Under Arms.
He was a fine busliman, anyway. Many
years ago he “lifted” a mob of Mount Cor-
nish cattle, which he took to Adelaide. By
a piece of bad luck there was an imported
bull in the lot, and the cattle-duffer was
tried at Roma (Q.) for stealing the identi-
fiable animal, but was acquitted. His per-
formance in taking the stolen cattle over-
land to Adelaide was one of the finest pieces
of droving yet done in this country.
The mosquito is in for a bad time in and
around Brisbane. His guilt in spreading
dengue is commonly admitted; and it is now
asserted by Brisbane doctors that at least
TO per cent, of the population are afflicted
with filariasis, and the mosquito is saddled
with that too. Petrol gangs will therefore
be a regular institution next summer.
No sooner had Ividston become an LL.D.
of Brisbane University, accepting an honorary
degree which it takes the student very many
years to earn by hard labor, than the cable
emptied a pail of ice-water on his head. An-
drew Fisher, offered the same cheap “honor’
by five of the best-known English and Scotch
Universities, had firmly declined the lot.
Fisher evidently sees, what Kidston doesn’t,
that this cheapening of the EL.D. degree is
disgracefully unfair to the men who get it
by hard, honest study.
“0.K.” on the G.-G.’s Northern speech :
Gov.-Gen. Dudley, speaking up North, urged the
State Governments, for commercial reasons, to put
all their London agencies under the roof of the High
Commissioner. But the toleration of the costly State
Agent-Generalships is something more than merely
absurd from a business point of view. Lord Dudley
can see that absurdity. The other side to the
scandal is one which a British representative of
titular distinction could hardly be expected to notice.
The London offices of all the State Agent-Generals
’ are mediums for the spread of snobbery in this
country. “Australian” knighthoods radiate from
them nowadays. An Agent-General is a man who
leaves Australia as a professing democrat, and returns
,*•—if he ever does return—a tin-god Tory with a
bauble on his breast, and, generally speaking, a wife
who stands for “rank” in the social circle. A bac-
helor Australian K.C.M.G. is a deplorable thing; a
married one duplicates the calamity, fie is as dan-
gerously infectious to democracy as the Gaud-Mayors
and other individuals of no real distinction, who are
fitted with handles to their unhonored names. Aus-
tralian journalism nowadays bristles with references
to globe-trotting citizens of the Commonwealth, .who
have been basking in the smiles of “Sir John” or
“Sir James,” the Agent-Generals for their respective
States. From a business point of view, those un-
necessary officials in London appear expensive ob-
stacles to the establishing of a useful High Commis-
sioner. From a sound democratic standpoint they
can be regarded only as further illustrations of the
sin of omission, whereof our Federal Constitution
was guilty, in permitting the importation of British-
made titles into the Commonwealth’s social system.
When Times Are on the Pinch.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When times are on the pinch with me and bread is
getting scant;
When Hunger makes me half a worm and halt a
sycophant;
When beer has vanished far away, and whisky’s but
a dream,
And I must dree a hungry weird or toil in Sorrow’s
team;
When all the friends I thought I had look deadly
cold and grim,
And ev’ry second man I meet suspects I d cadge of
him;
When nightly in the park I doss and wander, daily
thinner —
Oh, let me dodge the godly crew and cotton to the
sinner!
When all the sky is cloudy-like and ev’ry prospect’s
blue,
I pray to kindly Providence, in case I worry through,
'To save me from the help of them whose one eternal
chant
Ts: “Lord have mercy on the men who cannot whine
and cant!”
Oil, save me from the aid of him, who, when he gives
a dole,
insures at petty premiums his wretched little soul,
And then goes home, serene and smug, to wolf a
lordly dinner —
Oh, let me seek his succor not, but cotton to the
sinner 1
He did not dine, that One of old, with priest and
profitmonger;
lie knew the grim companionship of Toil and Thirst
and Hunger ;
lie did not scorn the battler, and He did not shun
the poor.
lie knew the way to ope the heart of fisherman and
boor;
lie did not crave a following from the wealthy and
the great,
But gathered His disciples from the men of low es-
tate ;
And if a woman went astray, He always bent to win
her —-
He spurned the whole self-righteous crew, and. cot-
toned to the sinner.
QUEENSLAND.
P. FLAM.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, June 10, 1911.
My Dear Thargomindah,—
Harold Parker and bis newly-acquired
wife were the guests of Mr. and Mrs. Pre-
mier Denham at tea in the Art Gallery a
few days ago, when the Brisbane boy who
has climbed was littered with congratula-
tions on his work and his wife.. Much was
said of the poor show that our very own
sculptor has had so far in his native art
gallery, and the Premier, while quite non-
committal, seemed to agree with the senti-
ment. The trustees may now hope for some-
thing a year to go on with; also, there
seems some reasonable fear that the long-
contemplated memorial to the dead swaddies
of the S’Afriean mistake will be proceeded
with, and that Parker will do the deed.
The Parker tea was marred by the sudden
and rather serious illness of Edwyn Lilley,
K.C. He had just finished the few well-
turned remarks which the situation appeared
to demand, when he became so ill that (he
medical folk present were called upon to
lend their aid ; and, later, he was sent home
under their care. He is coming along all
right now. E. M. Lilley is a man that most
people like, and aH respect, which is perhaps
one reason he has been overlooked when
Judgeships have been vacant.
The choir from Sheffield, where the
knives come from when they don’t come
from Germany, was unpacked from the Zea-
landia on Saturday to the tune of oyer 200.
In spite of a howling westerly wind the
congregation almost at once gave a good
account of itself at the Exhibition. Titles
don’t count for anything extra among them,
but the Lady Noel has quite an “air.” my
dear, and, I hear, a voice to match ; but, as
she couldn’t manage the westerly, her num-
ber was called off. A large party of public
personages welcomed them and carried them
off to a lunch and a reception, where Pre-
mier Denham served the eloquence.
There is much chuckling over a recently-
announced engagement. The bridegroom-
elect was booked by Dame Rumor to an-
other unappropriated blessing ; and .it is
whispered that I’a did a good deal in set-
ting him up in sheep. But the lady dallied
too long, and an imported article has come
along and got the first clip, so to speak.
George Gray and his new wife, who was
Miss Appel, depart during the coming week
for the Cold Land, where they mean to put
in a year or more. During the recent visit
of the lady’s father to Thursday Island he
added to her already valuable collection of
pearls a three-stone ring calculated to split
at least one Commandment into fire-kind-
lings.
The shriekiest note sounded in connection
with the Sheffield Choir’s brief outbreak here
was the Imperial note. The choir is one
of the best, and worth going a hundred
miles to hear. But with the avowed objects
of Dr. Charles Harriss the crowd hasn’t any
sympathy to spare. The Doctor, who re-
ceived his prefix in recognition of his ser-
vices to church music, which were manifold,
married the widow of a wealthy Canadian
railway magnate, and if he sounds the Im-
perial note loudly enough, he may yet find
himself with another prefix. Several of the
“old nobility” are understood to be interested
in him, and altogether the Doctor seems
to have chosen his company very judiciously.
It will stand him in good steady with the
fiercely respectable party which is now on
top at the Court of St. James. The choir
has already visited Canada, and played the
note in the topmost key, and it is being
maintained in Australia. If it is screamed
loud enough it may blow half-way round the
world and cause George V. to lay aside one
little gaud for Dr. Charles Harriss and his
lady on June 22. Who knows ? If not then,
certainly later on.
Yours affectionately,
MARIO.


T
/. •
%
'til
V N
: - ; v:
m
M
%
■I
| 1
“ ■ W
i €
Hu
I H
m
' ■
' m
»
r
. y.
«tf s a i
/
-
.
■
iJ
A
: J
Kars'* j
vyesio.H
-
QUEENSLAND,
Australia’s m
Winter Paradise.
Exquisite and Enthralling Scenery. Mild and Bracing Climate.
Par excellence the trip, for which, at this time of the year, the Commonwealth offers no better.
DURING the Winter months no more enjoyable trip can be tahen than along the picturesque eastern seaboard,
through the exquisite Whitsunday Passage and Hinchinbrook Channel. These scenes of tropical beauty are
unsurpassed in the World.
The ATHERTON and HERBERTON TABLELANDS, 2000 to 3000 feet above sea-level, possess a
bracing climate, rich soil, tropical vegetation and scrubs full of magnificent timber.
The BARRON FALLS and the TULLY FALLS have no equal in Australia.
In Central Queensland, Tourists have an opportunity of visiting MOUNT MORGAN, near Rock-
hampton. This great mine—a mountain of gold—has paid over £7,500,000 in dividends.
The famous DARLING DOWNS in Southern Queensland can be reached by train from Brisbane in
four hours. , •
Full particulars and handbooks can be obtained on personal application or by letter to
The Director, Intelligence <SL Tourist Bureau,
Corner of Queen <2l George Streets, BRISBANE.
SYDNEY Branch Office at 116 Pitt Street. A. Meston, Local Director.


These pictures show our
Famous Post-hole Digger in operation.
Note the ease with which post-holes can
be bored. The back-racking, slow and
laborious method of crowbar and shovel
are now superseded by the ideal method
—not hard work, but easy, quick and
more satisfactory results at less expense.
The price is 15/3.
It enters hard earth easily—
lias an expansion blade —will hold fine
dry sand—does not bind in the hole —
—opens to discharge—bores seven
sizes of holes, 8 to 14 inches in
diameter, 3J feet deep. It is strong-
will stand rough wear.
John Cooper
and Sons,
Melbourne’s Biggest Ironmongers,
287-9 ELIZABETH STREET,
MELBOURNE.
THE FOLLY OF DRUG
TAKING.
Do nor, take tonics for nervous breakdown.
There is only one way in which nervous breakdown
can be repaired, and that is by feeding the brain and
nerve centres with Lecithin in an active, organic form.
ANTINEURASTHIN does this, and actually builds up
the nervous system by administering to it its natural food.
If you suffer from brain fag, inability of concentration
of thought, want of application, dyspepsia, indigestion,
n?u -nlria, headaches, languor and irritability, send to
t ie wholesale distributor for Australia and New Zealand,
If. A. Goddard, !)6a Eagle Street, Brisbane, Q., or 194
Vickery’s Chambers, 82 Pitt Street, Sydney, enclosing
nineperice in stamps, and a sample of Antineurast.hin,
with pamphlet dealing with nervous troubles, will be
forwarded to you by return of post. [1
dsgd
Zaw Points
iSr /nuentors
Can I Obtain a Patent ?
The quickest, wav to ascertain this,
WITHOUT EXPENSE, is to write
to me describing" your invention, enclosing- a small sketch
where necessary. Nicety of drawing'is not essential;
all that is necessary at first is to give me YOUR IDEA.
I will at once inform you whether the idea is patent-
able, and, if so, give the necessary instructions for
further procedure.
Persons desirous of obtaining really, reliable advice or
information regarding Patent matters are cordially in-
vited to consult me personally or by letter. In all eases
a careful consideration of their plans, an honest opinion,
and a prompt reply may be expected.
A. J. CALLINAN, Patent Attorney,
Citizens’ Buildings, Collins Street, Melbourne.
£REME LA FRANCE.
FRENCH LIQUID COSMETIC.
sgd
An Exquisite Lotion for Beau-
tifvinsr and frivinff Tone and
Brilliance to tlie Com-
plexion. It is most
beneficial to those
whose skin is show-
ing /a tendency to
b crfnie livid or dis-
colored. It softens
a bard, dry skin
Perfectly harmless
to t be most delicate
skin. Price 2/6,
Posted 3/- Obtain-
able from MADAME
LEIGH, Ladies’ Hair-
dresser and Hairvvorker,
23 The Block Arcade,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Wholesale: DUERDIN AND SAINSBURY, Melbourne.
“LINSEED COMPOUND” for Coughs and
Colds. Relieves Asthma and difficult breathing.
MEN S WINTER FOOTWEAR.
A NEW
MODEL.
Price 19/6.
The Glace or Box Balmoral illustrated is the result of the
best shoe-making thought obtainable, applied to the best
mechanical process and worked out in as excellent
leather as the world’s tanneries afford.
Write for our Booklet,
“ SHOELIGHT.
sgd
LEEMING’S BOOT STORES
109 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
257-259 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
303 Chapel Street, Prahran.
1 and 3 Errol Street, North Melbourne.
"ABERDEEN" Rugs
are GOOD Rugs !
It pays you well to use them ! They are
wonderfully warm and strong —and give
years of solid wear.
Rugged cows give greater milk yield-
rugged horses are kept fit for hard work.
Use the “Aberdeen” and you'll have
the most practical and most satisfactory
rug available.
Leading stores. If unobtainable, write
for price list to
A
Patent Snap
Surcingle.
Fastens quickly
and never slips.
Smith, Copeland &. Co. Ltd.,
204-206 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
AGENTS: VICTORIA—J. BARTRAM & SON, King Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND—H. I. H. ROSS, Edward Street, Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—C. WHITING, Currie Street, Adelaide.
rr
SCIENCE
behind it !
PEBECO is a complete scientific health
course tor the mouth and teeth.
Its alkaline properties correct the acidity of
the saliva, prevent bacterial inroads upon the
teeth and deodorise the breath. Pebeco imparts
a pearly whiteness, arrests decay, removes tartar,
and, by invigorating' the tissues, remedies shrink-
ing gums.
PEBECO
Tooth Paste
is highly antiseptic, and, if regularly used, pre-
vents many diseases of the mouth and throat.
Of all Chemists, etc.
SOLE AGENT—
C ARNOLD, 6 O’Connell St., Sydney.
(Wholesale only.)
sd
gsgd
The World’s Standard
Valveless Engine.
THE life history of a FERRO ENGINE would be
very interesting were we to follow it from its
embryonic stage on the blue prints of the
designers, through the various phases of infantile
life, till it emerges from the factory to be transported
to some particular spot on old mother earth, to fulfil
its destiny as the WILLING SLAVE OF INDUSTRY.
From icy pole to torrid zone, from far=off Alaska
to Australia, the sun never sets on the “ FERRO.’
THE CURSE OF ADAM has no terrors for the
men who own them. A man must needs sweat, but
he can sweat to better advantage than by yanking a
saw, pump handle or chaffcutter. Turn these jobs
over to the “ FERRO ” ; they are built to do them.
if you do not happen to own one, get busy and
write the nearest agent, who will be only too happy
to suggest the right sweat=preventer for the job.
Made in the following sizes suitable for
Stationary, Portable or Marine use:
3,4, %%, VA, 8, 11, 12,15, 11, 25 H.P.
FERRO AGENTS:
Hall Bros., Druitt St., SYDNEY.
Acme Motor & Eng. Co., 355 Lonsdale St., MELBOURNE.
Howard Motor & Cycle Co., Queen St., BRISBANE.
F. J. Langley, Torrens St. E., ADELAIDE.
sn
!
Perth Motor House, Hay St., PERTH.
Wearne & Ceard, LAUNCESTON.
Hayward & Garrett, Stuart St., DUNEDIN.
H. T. Whitson & Co., Customs St. W., AUCKLAND
H. T. Moors, APIA, SAMOA.
l v'
UNDER VICE-REGAL
sgd
PATRONAGE
The Misses Isaacs,
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair-
workers & Dermatologists,
161 KING STREET, SYDNEY, between Elizabeth & Castlereagh Streets.
Transformations from £4/4/- Tails from 7/6. Puffs from 26/- set. Fringes from 7/6.
Telephone 2138 Central. COMBINGS MADE UP.
Country orders reeeive prompt attention.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted, whether sent by post or handed
in; and.no MS. will be returned unless stamps
(of any State) accomnany.
Mimosa : Too diffuse —remember there are
a hundred others waiting to get a word in.. . W.K.C. :
London Truth has the crowd on its Black List; and
that means “Stand clear.”... .D. E. J. Mandemah:
The Bulletin doesn’t run such competitions. It pays
for what it prints. As for the rest, it wants the sort of
stuff it gets —and better Brenon: Write it; then
cut out every word that doesn’t matter ; then re-
i write what’s left, and send it along. . . .W.G.: Don’t
know whether Justice Higgins is a shareholder in the
C. Co. or not. But, anyhow, what’s that got to
do with the question whether combines and mono-
polies ought to be cheeked ? If Higgins has invested
■ (and he’s an improvident person if he hasn’t, seeing
that the High Court Judge’s billet carries no pen-
sion), he is probably content to get a fair return ;
and, desiring only that, he wouldn’t mind the busi-
ness being severely regulated... .W.E.O’H.: No; but
he was Deputy-Speaker, and acted during McCourt s
long illness.... G.M.0.: The alleged position of the
co. is that it cannot supply the goods, owing to the
failure of the American firm with which it had made
arrangements. It proposes to fulfil its orders as soon
as possible. Meanwhile, police reports are unsatis-
factory Constant Reader: Stand clear Screed:
Can only advise you that, so far, about 150 men have
joined the recently-formed N.S.W. district branch of
the Australian Journalists’ Association. In Victoria
the position is much the same; and Queensland and
South Atis. have also linked up. The all-Australian
hodv is registered as an industrial organisation under
the Federal Arbitration Act, and its avowed intention
is to hustle for improved financial and general con-
ditions of pressmen. Don’t think it matters who
the “genuine pioneers” are ; the main thing is genuine
utility Stringybarker: Thanks. Sent to Minns...
F.J.8.: Photograph verses bright; hut what’s your
name and address? L.S.K.: Topical verse should
he served fresh. Yours is like fried mummy....
Bellerive: The detective was unnaturally prompt, and
the manner of his appearance in Court suggests that
you got him off a film. However, here he is:—
WRONGFULLY ACCUSED.
Accused of having robbed his master
A man old and grey
In the felon’s dock stood
In the courthouse one day ;
I’m innocent, lie pleaded
To the serious charge,
The safe was rifled by some
Criminal at large;
I’ve been a trustworthy servant
For fifteen long years—
He told the stern Judge
And burst into tears.
A detective appeared in
The midst of the case,
As the tears trickled down
The poor veteran’s face;
He had the real culprit secure
Under lock and key,
And without a stain on his name
The old man was set free.
...D.E.D.M.: “Pannikin” and “A. William-Cann”
the tin knights—tilt entertainingly with their pen-
lances in the Aho. column lists. The hempen square
would be a poor substitute. .Diogenes: Better upend
that tub of yours and take in washing.. . .R.8.R.: Too
small and old. . . .Helen B.: Unsuitable. . . .C.W.E.:
Whiskers poem needs a lot of combing out
D. : All below print 1eve1.... T. Curfew: Feeble
poem. Needs careful nursing and plenty of nourish-
ment. .. . Kakapo: Regret unsuitable. It cost us 4d.
... .A.H.: “Barbed-wire, box-thorn and beer are the
ruin of Australia.” But we thought it was the Labor
party!... .T.P. (\V.\.) : Afraid not. “The strong
entrenched forts of Ignorance” is a humorous flash
in a very Serious poem. .. . Alie: Haven’t time to
stamp or curse. Don’t do it again. .. . R.A.S.: A
rough lament. . .Mrs. E, (Bulli) : Not skilfully done,
and the telephone trouble has been written to death.
. ...O’S. (S.A.) : Sorry too jagged. .. .Jack M,:
Immature. .. .R.S. (S.A.) : Overland line interrupted
and blown down. . . .R.J.A.: One verse from “The
Remittance Man’s Lament”:—
Oh ! Gawd for a sight of the Strand once more,
With its never-ceasing tide.
And a lunch at the Roman’s with a girl
From the Gaiety by my side.
Usually it is the cool, clear bushland and the simple
flush-girl. Quite a novelty to get a sigh for fog,
fizz and Gaiety girl Sheoak: Unsuitable
Beadle: Wilted verse. . . .Moruya: Poem so weak that
we had to revive it with stimulants before we could
get it to, the basket.... Inkwell: Crude work, which
revives memories of another funeral story.... Young
Australian (Q.) : Call round again in about eight
years’ time. , . .Colon : No. .. . S.W.Z.: You won’t in-
duce the setting sun to linger on its way with that
sort of verse... .ILK.: A brave effort to find a rhyme
for policeman:.—
They feel no fright in the glad sunlight
Who are honest, that’s a nice plan,
But with smiles bright like true men of might,
They will answer a policeman!
. ...M.8.P.: Not yet. Or shall we say “The time is
not ripe”?. ..Varzin: Fair idea very roughly handled.
. ...J.K.: Is that all you have to say about bar-
maids ?... .A. E.R.: “I think this is honestly worth
ten shillings.” Our estimate is half a sovereign
below yours. .. . A.Y.A.: Did ,you ever see a choir yet
that didn’t whisper and chatter? The Religious
Editor was driven out of the last choir he belonged
to by the'' |urtive gabbling of the people who pre-
tended to come there to sing. Any parrot-cage can
muster as much reverence as the average choir. Sorry
verses inferior. . . .Bell Buoy: We hear you tolling
faintly in the f0g.... Ixion : One whoop :
Let us wield the black inkpot
And cut sundry capers,
Bring out the loud stinkpot
And write to the papers.
Suppressed the rest of it. It just shows how wild the
unfortunate old Argus makes people as it dodders
round with Fat’s slippers and dusts the Empire in a
futile way with the Union Jack.... Kow S.: Fined
ss. for discharging platitudes, 10s. for making a false
rhyme, and 203. for obstructing the Inky Way.
A mild “perk” attaching to Ministerial
life in N.S.W. is an appointment as hono-
rary trustee of National Park, Port Hack-
ing, or Kuring-gai Chase, Hawkesbury Riv-
er. At each place first-class accommodation
is provided by the Government, and the chief
end of a trustee is a week-end. Every suc-
cessive Ministry finds a chance to appoint
trustees, and Holman and Beeby have been
prevailed upon to consent to administer the
affairs of Kuring-gai Chase for the Labor
Government.
“ M.A.R.” goes to apolitical meeting;—
Last night I attended in the local hall a People’s Party
cum Women’s National League agitation. There was an
immense dog present. A cold, thirsty little knot shivered
in the front of the hall and dealt out muffled applause
when common courtesy seemed to demand it. The
orators served up the usual hash composed of the flag,
the Empire, the good of the country, patriotism, etc.
Somebody was once roused to say “heah,heah”! The
dog ranged about the emptiness, sniffing as though hope-
ful of starting an Anti-Sosh bogey. Finally he succumbed
to the prevailing influence, and, after drinkingeopiously
from the fire bucket, slept unashamed. A local con-
stable —a very determined officer, who had been specially
requisitioned to arrest any loud vulgah Labah person—
also slept. Then the audience composed itself to make
the best of things. Later on, it was roused by the con-
cluding words of the lady speaker : “ We have made our
platform wide enough to take in women of all clauses ” !
I woke up—the W.N.L. was beginning to tell the truth !
Not a word about the marriage tie, or home burstin’, or
the bomb that Andy Fisher intends to pelt at the royal
hat—only the platform “to take women in.” But why
platform? Why not gin, or trap, or net? I left them
attempting to form “ branches ” out of the void. The
immense dog was gyrating horribly on his axis in a des-
perate attempt to catch something.


RHEUMATISM
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY.
GOUT. RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA. LUMBAGO,
NEURALGIA.
Blairs
GOUT AND
RHEUMATIC
They Never Fail.
They Always Cure.
Pills
The only true and safe remedy for Gout and
Rheumatism that has stood the test of time
All Chemists and Stores at i/i J & 2/9 per box
Proprietors, PROUT & Co., 229. Strand,
London. England
VTTFi
WHY YOU CAN TRUST MY
FREE CIGAR
TRIAL
au^\,
ALMOST everybody knows about my efforts
to make Cigar-smoking popular in Aus-
tralia.
My FREE CIGAR TRIAL is this:—l'll send
you a box of 100 DIADEMAS for 22/6 —equal, as
they are, to any 6d. Cigar on the market; really
worth £2 ss. per ,100 —and you can smoke 5 or 6
of them. If they aren't as good as any Cigar
you .have ever tried, send the remainder back to
me, and I’ll refund your money in full, without
any charge for those you’ve smoked.
sgd
Now, I want to prove to
you how straight this offer is.
You might think—-“ Why
doesn’t he send the box up
without any money,, and let
us send the money on when
we’ve tried the 5 or 6 and
found them as good as he
says, or else return the
balance then ?”
I tell you right off, I’d like
to do that. Hut that would
put all the trusting on my
side—and I’ve got to make a
living.
I know nearly every man-
jack ofyou wouldact straight
to me if I did make this offer.
But you know as well as I
there are some who would
get the Cigars, and let me
whistle for the money.
I know there’d be only a
few who would do this; but
I sell my Cigars so close to
cost—cutting off ail the ware-
houseman’s, traveller’s and
retailer's profits—that these
few would cripple my scheme
altogether. That’s why I
can’t do it and give the same
Cigar value as I give to-day.
I know you’re trusting me
in sending down the money
before you get the Cigars.
But you’ll get the Cigars
right by return post, never
fear, You can smoke sor 6
of them, and if they’re not
as goqd as you expected,
you can send what are left
right hack. I’ll return your money every
penny of it, with no deduction whatever—
and even here you needn’t only take my word
for it.
I have my banking account at the Com-
mercial Bank of Australia Limited, Melbourne.
The General Manager there knows all about
me and my way of doing business. He'll vouch
for me; and you can refer to him before you
send any order at all to me. That’s proof of my
squareness, isn’t it?
Sit down now and send me 22/6 to-day, and
I’ll forward you a box of 100 DIADEMAS —
Cigars that I promise are equal to any 6d.
Cigar sold in Australia—made from clean, long,
straight Brazilian leaf, and rolled in the finest
Java wrapper.
My Only Address is
LOUIS KAUFFMANN
54 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE
Illustrated Descriptive Booklet will be
Mailed Free to any address.
For general use
The ‘ALLENBURYS’ Diet is a
complete and easily digested food.
It is pleasant to take, readily assimilated and speedily restorative. Whilst
helping the system to recover its tone and vigour, it forms an ideal food
for general use. Prepared from rich milk and whole wheat in a partially
predigested form.
Made in a Minute
—add boiling water only —
ALLEN & HANBURYS LTD.
LONDON. ENGLAND
and
MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
sdg
DIET
How the
Square Tread is Compressed.
When the cover is entirely deflited, its tall sides
stand practically parallel as shown. The tread is
already well compressed, for that is part of the
manufacturing process.
But when the cover is fully inflated, it alters its
shape to that indicated by the dotted lines. That
is to say, the tread becomes still more tightly
compressed.
That is why the Michelin Square Tread is so
exceptionally durable—lt explains, too, why, when
the tread is cut, the rubber nearly closes the incision,
and so impedes the ingress of mud, water, or dust.
All the Leading Garages.
WARNING.—Don’t buy Michelin Tyres at
less than current prices. They may
be of old manufacture. Purchase only
from our Agents.
an
sc
e*
CAPILLAR
4
&
\
DON'T LOOK A YOUNGSTER!
A moustache is a mark of manhood—it’s as bad for success in life to look
too young as it is to look too old !
Even if you have only a soft light down on your upper lip CAPILLARINE
will make it sprout out into a strong hair growth—it just makes it grow like
lightning. Lots of men have found a single jar grow a strong, long moustac he !
Price 10/6 a jar. Post free anywhere in Plain Package.
The C. & A. Moustache Trainer makes and keeps the mous-
tache any shape you want it. Worn at night. 2s. 6d. post free.
CRAIG & AITKEN
654 George Street, Sydney.
Established
30 Years.
A
NON
RUSTABLE.
CORSET
Gives
STYLE
and
COMFORT
Australian Magazine. THE LONE
HAND, the National Monthly. Price 6d.
“ LINSEED COMPOUND ” for Coughs and
Colds. Loosens phlegm. Allays irritation.


Missing: Friends.
WANTED.— SAMPSON BEAMISH
BENNETT, Native of Ireland. Last
heard of at Tambo, Barcoo River, Queens-
land, 10 years ago. If alive would now be
over 80 years old.' Information desired as to
present whereabouts, or if dead, as to place
and time of death. Apply FOXTON,
lIOBBS & MACNISH, Solicitors, Brisbane.
A NYONE knowing the whereabouts of CHARLES
W. PILLING, late of Tas., would they please
communicate with his brother, THOMAS PILLING,
Shipwrights’ Point, Huon, Tas.
A NYONE knowing the whereabouts of JAMES
ESCREET (last heard of at Townsville, Queens-
land, five years ago), kindly communicate with
brother, GEORGE ESCREET, Carrajung, Victoria.
Legal Notice.
Estate of edward hales, late
OF NARRANDERA, Deceased.
The Next-of-Kin of the abovenamed de-
ceased are requested to Communicate with
the undersigned, giving full particulars of
kinship and identity.
T. W. GARRETT,
Curator of Intestate Estates.
Sydney, New South Wales.
.Medical. _ .
Pr.E. 6. LE6ER ERSON
formerly hon. physician Auckland and Broken Hill
general hospitals.
Also of Collins Street, Melbourne ; Macquarie Street,
Sydney ; and Hay Street, Perth,
Has Resumed Practice at 30 Collins Street,
Mnlkmarn/? Consultation Hours —
MeiDourne. U3O Lo 12 , 30 t 6 . 45 to 7.45 p.m.
Tel. 453. SPECIALTY 606.
Business Announcements.
The Wonder Air Plant
ABSORBS MOISTURE FROM THE AIR
/LOVELY FEATHERY FRONDS KEEP FRESH & GREEN
No Soil, No Water, No Care
2/6
p
Charmingly Decorative for
the Home.
Complete in Quaintly
Shaped China Bowl for
Half-a-Crown,
securely packed and de-
livered free anywhere.
T~)ECOR.A.TIVE Plants, such as ferns,
• L - / palms, &c., soon lose their attrac-
t i ve freshness when kept in the house,
and need constant attention to keep
tnem alive. The Wonder Air Plant,on
the contrary, calls for no care ; it re-
quires neither water nor soil. Suspended anywhere out of the
oirect sunlight, it preserves its beautifully fresh and green
appearance for years, the feathery fronds expanding in damp
weather, absorbing moisture from the air and glistening with
dew, ami in dry seasons becoming more close and compact.
It is set in moss and fern shreds contained in a quaintly de-
signed china bowl, that is suspended by a cord. The engrav-
ing is an inadequate representation of the lovely appearance
of the Wonder Air Plant, for it is impossible to convey even a
faint idea of the delicate shades of green of the feathery
fronds and the exquisitely graceful effect of the gossamer-like
depending foliage. We have been able to secure only a
limited number of these wonderful plants, but expect a
further supply to arrive shortly. You should order at once to
Bave disappointment. Sent to any address securely packed on
receipt of only HALF-A-CROWN. Obtainable only from
THE UNiON GO., 299 Elizabeth St., Melbourne
If you love your Wife you win make her a
ĝd
FIRELESS
COaKER
It saves 80 percent, of Fuel,halves the Cook’s labor.
No heat, no smell, no trouble, no danger, no spoilt
food. It makes tough meat tender and preserves
v the goodness and flavor. Anyone can make a
Fireless Cooker. Send Half-a-CITOWII
for Complete Drawings and full Printed
Directions, with Hints and Suggestions and
a good number of Recipes -The cost of
making a good-sized Cooker is less than 5/-
The Union Co.. 299 Elizabeth St M Melb.
Marvel Leatker Stitcher
Complete 1/6, C ™£ GE
Anyone can sole boots,
mend harness, sew leather,
rubber, canvas, See., equal
to the best tradesmen.
gd
FULL DIRECTIONS WITH EACH OUTFIT.
UNION MFC. CO. 299 Elizabeth Street, Melb.
Don’t you wish to be Taller?
THE INVISIBLE LIFTERS
inside your Boots or Shoes Quite easy and comlort
able They actually improve the fit of a tight boot,
yon may doubt this, but we guarantee it
Feather weight; made of cork, carefully
sgd
shaped to fit the feet Add nearly an inch to your height with-
out being noticeable. Usual price 2/6, but we sell the best
quality
address
for One Shilling, post paid to any
The Union Company,
299 Elizabeth Street. Melbourne.
Amusements.
Lyric a-mD colonial theatres
Nos. 1 and 2, George Street, Sydney.
Direction J. D. Williams.
PERPETUAL MOTION from 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
PATRONISED BY 60,000 PEOPLE WEEKLY.
Run Under the Continuous Show System now the Rage
of England and America.
English and American Prices of Admission.
Same Prices at Each Theatre :
STALLS 3d. DRESS CIRCLE 6d.
ENTIRE CHANGE OF PROGRAMMES TWICE
WEEKLY: MONDAYS and THURSDAYS.
Afternoon Tea is Popular. Afternoon Pictures are the
Rage.
We Cater Specially for Ladies and Children During
Morning and Afternoon Sessions.
Ladies’ Retiring Rooms and Lady Attendants.
If it is to he seen anywhere you will see it at our
. Theatres.
THE WORLD IN MOTION.
We want you to compare our Programmes and our
Theatres with others which charge twice, our prices of
Admission.
THE GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS
AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
INTERNATIONAL PICTURES. COLONIAL
THEATRE BUILDINGS, 610 George Street, Sydney.
Mr. W. J. Morgan, General Manager.
This Company supplies the Lyric and Colonial Theatres
with all their photo plays, and also supplies the leading
photo play concerns throughout Australasia. In fact,
we supply more shows with pictures than any other
three (3) concerns combined.
Don’t forget, Mr. Showman, to write or call.
We have the money-getters. We do not represent any
one firm of photoplay manufacturers, but we represent
all the best. WE HAVE THOUSANDS OF EXCLUSIVE
SUBJECTS -EVERY ONE A WINNER.
Branches : Sutton Buildings, Melbourne ; Courier Build-
ings, Brisbane ; Wellington, New Zealand ; London,
England : Dewar House, Haymarket.
Just address your wire to “International Pictures.”
That’s sufficient
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager: J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
LAST EIGHT NIGHTS OF PANTOMIME.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45 SHARP.
Mr. .T: C. WILLIAMSON presents
' “Thp Greatest of all Pantomimes,”
JACK and THE BEANSTALK
PLAN AT PALING'S.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Lessee & Manager .. J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
THE NEW COMIC OPERA COMPANY.
THIS EVENING, AT 7.50 SHARP.
ANOTHER TRIUMPH.
Spontaneous and Enthusiastic Applause Greeted the
First Performance of
THE BALKAN PRINCESS.
80-x Plan at Paling’s. Prices as usual.
RITERION THEATRE. SYDNEY.
Lessee: FRANK MUSGROVE.
A SUCCESS OF PLAY AND PLAYERS.
CLARKE AND MEYN ELL’S NEW OPERA COMPANY
in that Notable Musical Success,
THE GAY GORDONS.
Box Plan at ELVY’S. PRICES AS USUAL.
A DELPHI THEATR E,~Sf Y~3NEY.
Direction and Management, Grouge Marlow, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING, AT 7.50,
LAST TWO NIGHTS of UNDER TWO FLAGS.
SATURDAY NEXT, JUNE 17,
The Initial Appearance Here of Two Leading English
Artists in the Gigantic London Success,
DRIVING A ,GIRL TO DESTRUCTION.
POPULAR PRICES—3s., 2s. & Is. Early Door, 6d. extra.
Box Plan at Elvy’s and Theatre.
N AMPHITHEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietors .. Brennan’s Amphitheatres, Ltd.
Governing Director .. .. Mr. Janies Brennan.
BRENNAN’S VAUDEVILLE ENTERTAINERS.
EVERY EVENING, AT 8 O’CLOCK.
Matinees—Wednesdays, Saturdays and Holidays.
LAST TWO WEEKS, DAISY HARCOURT.
STARR AND LESLIE. 4 MUSICAL GAR r ' TV ’ , ”’ r \. 1
FRANK YORKE. OUR GREAT DOUBLE COMPANY.
Ordinary Prices- -2/-, 1/6, 1/-, Gallery 6d., Reserved Seats
6d. extra. SATURDAY NIGHTS, 2/-, 1/0 & 1/-.
AMATEUR TRIAL NIGHTS, FRIDAY EVENINGS.
HE
. EVERY
LYCEUM
EVENING AT B
~ C.'WA-rva a. « «.i ' - ' _ _
MATinECS-WtDNtSOAYS SATURDAYS AND HOLIDAYS AT Z SO.
C PENCER'SIifiATREJCOPE C?
J PICTURES
<» rfßtz SUPER.!Of* TO SUL OTHERS.'*
Popular Prices »i. PusilALEMdN^j
New princess theatre
(Late BIJOU, next to Glaciarium).
Also PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
COLOSSAL PEOPLE’S ENTERTAINMENTS BY
WEST’S PICTURES, LTD.
“BEST OF ALL.”
FAMILY MATINEES—WEDNESDAY, 2.30.
DE GROEN’S VICE-REGAL ORCHESTRAS.
6d. to 2/- Plan at Nicholson’s (Fee, 6d. extra).
OYDNEYGLA C l A R I U M.
REAL ICE SKATING.
THREE SESSIONS DAILY.
10 to 12. 3 to 5. 8 to 10.30.
Admission—2/-; Children : Morning & Afternoon only, 1/-
Children : Saturday Morning only, 6d.
SKATE HIRE—SIXPENCE.
Private Instruction may be Booked for Hours during
and between the Sessions.
’Phone, 492 Glebe. DUNBAR POOLE, Manager.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor & Manager—Mr. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS.
ARTHUR OROXON, England’s Monologue Entertainer.
EUNICE and ZENA, Instrumentalists and Vocalists.
COLUMBIA COMEDY TRIO, Burlesque Operatic Vocalists
MDLLE. BLANCHE CHARMEROY, Parisian Comedienne
THE KAVANAGH BOYS. THE MARLOW SISTERS.
FANNY POWERS, Comedienne and Mimic.
THE AUSTRALIAN DARTOS, Whirlwind Dancers.
And a GREAT COMPANY of Established Favorites.
PRICES —35., 2s. and Is. Plan at Paling’s.
OP ER A FoTsI MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
CADWELL & VERNE, Musical Come.dy Artists.
BLACK and WHITE, Lady Acrobats.
KELDINE and KLIMO, Comedy Trick Cyclists.
MR. R. A. ROBERTS, Protean Actor in Ringing
the Changes.
PEGGY PRYDE, Comedienne.
FRED BLUETT, Comedian.
Plan ip, Allan's. US' PRICES—3s., 25., Is.
THE KINGIS THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager : William Andkiison.
EVERY EVENING, ' %
WM. ANDERSON’S NEW DRAMATIC ORGANISATION,
in the Great Naval Drama,
A WOMAN OF PLEASURE.
Reappearance of MISS EUGENIE DUGGAN.
Box Plan at Allan’s. PRICES—3s., 2s. and Is.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager : J. C. Williamson, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING,
• Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON presents
OUR MISS GIBBS.
By an Exceptionally Strong Cast.
Plan at Allan’s. PRICES —5/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/-.
MELBOURNE.
pRINCESS’S THEATRE,
A GREAT SUCCESS.
HARRY PLIMMER & REYNOLDS DENNISTON CO. in
NOBODY’S DAUGHTER.
Played Wyndham’s Theatre, London, Seven Consecutive
Months.
PRICES AS USUAL. Plan at Allan’s.
QUEST'S PALACE, MELBOURNE.
the best WEST’S PICTURES, THl<: miST
OF ALL. LIMITED. OF ALL.
Managing Director : Mr. T. J. West.
NIGHTLY AT S.
Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays & All Holidays at 2.30.
The Greatest Pictorial Enterprise in the World.
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
Ant Moving Picture Worthy of Note always to be seen at
WEST’S PICTURES. Complete Change every week.
p r i ces __dd. to 2s. Box Plan at Glen’s.
IRTHS OLTMPIA
.every evening at 8.
Maxi nees-Wedhesdays . Saturdays and Holidays at 2 30.
CPENCERSIHtATWJCOPEfe
J PICTURES
HRE SUPERIOR ro /JI.L OTHERS.
Popular Prices Plan as Usualv^.
LYRIC THEATRE, Chapel Street, Prahran, Vic.
EVERY NIGHT at 8. MATINEE, SATURDAY, at 2.30
THE FAMOUS “NON-FLICKER”
PHOTOPLAYS
on the Marvellous “Mack” Screen, together with the
Superb LYRIC ORCHESTRA. 6d. to 2s. Plans at
Allan’s, C. M. Read’s and the Lyric Theatre Caf6.
MELBOURNE.
■yHEATRE ROYAL,
LAST EIGHT NIGHTS.
CLARKE AND MEYNELL’S GREAT
DRAMATIC PRODUCTION,
THE WOMAN IN THE CASE.
Plans at Allan’s. 13?"" PRICES AS USUAL.
Melbourne repertory theatre.
Director: Gregan McMahon.
INAUGURAL PERFORMANCES :
JUNE 26, JULY 3—“ THE TWO MR. WETII ERBYS ”
and “ THE CRITIC.”
JUNE 29, JULY 6—“ JOHN GARRIEL BORKMAN,”
At the TURN VEREIN HALL.
Tickets, 45., 35., Is. 6d. : Sets of Six Tickets, 21«., 165.,
6s. ; on sale at Allan’s and Book Lovers’ Library.
BOX PLAN at ALLAN’S, JUNE 22. Prospectus on
application at Oxford Chambers, Bourke Street.
Town hall, Melbourne
Direction of J. & N. Tait.
THREE RECITALS by
LEONARD BORWICK.
“ THE GREATEST OF ALL ENGLISH PIANISTS.”
“Leonard Borwick plays Chopin with a spirit and
verve, and a degree of lightness and delicacy which is i not
only enchanting in itself, but, coming from an English-
man, is_somet.hin<r phenomenal.”—Zeitung Munich.
BOX PLAN OPENS at ALLAN’S, JUNE 21. _
THE GLACIARIUM, MELBOURNE.
FOR A FEW MORE DAYS
sdg
I
OF 60 PERFORMERS.
MATINEES EVERY AFTERNOON. ,
PRICES : 65., 35., 2s. Plan at Gle “ 3 -
QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS INQUIRY OFFICE
During the
TOURIST SEASON
an officer from this Branch will attend on board each trip of the WYREEMA and the
WYANDKA, to give information to passengers regarding RAILWAY SERVICES in
conjunction with the steamers. ILLUSTRATED TIME-TABLES, etc., will be distributed
on board FREE OF CHARGE, and passengers can learn all details connected with
contemplated Railway trips in Queensland.
BY ORDER OF THE COMMISSIONER FOR RAILWAYS.
ARTHUR J. CROWTHER, Acting Secretary,
Brisbane.
Department of Lands,
sgd
Sydney, June 7, 1911.
CLOSER SETTLEMENT
Cole Park and Malton Estate
(ADJOINING GOULBURN),
GOULBURN LAND DISTRICT.
19 FARMS will become available JULY 10,1911
Applications lodged from 10th to 15th JULY, 1911, will he treated as simultaneous.
Full particulars, Lithographs, Application Forms, etc., may he obtained at the Information Bureau,
Department of Lands, Sydney, or any Crown Land Agent throughout the State.
CHARLES E. RENNIE, Under-Secretary.
5.E.18.
ZEISS
FIELD GLASSES
WITH ENHANCED STEREOSCOPIC EFFECT.
For:
ARMY.
MARINE.
TRAVEL.
SPORT.
STALKING.
sd
Features:
Brilliant
Definition.
Extensive Field.
Great Light
Intensity.
Mechanical
Precision.
Stability.
Tropic Proof.
NEW MODELS
With
separate eyepiece
focussing.
X 8 £8 15 0
Xl2—£l2 10 0
OF ALL
OPTICIANS AT
AUSTRALASIAN
PRICES.
With
central focussing
mechanism.
X 6 0 0
X 8 15 0
ďg
Elade in
England
Underwear
MARK
3QVHJ.
The “BIRD MARK” on your Underwear
is a guarantee that the garments are made from
the finest Australian Lambswool and Cotton,
and in some qualities Silk is added.
The garments also have patented improve-
ments and fit the figure perfectly.
The most perfect underwear for hot weather
is the “BIRD MARK” Merino and Silk
Underwear, it will stand hard wear yet light in
weight.
Sold by all Drapers and Outfitters.
Wholesale only
i. & R. MORLEY and GEO. BRETTLE & CO.,
London, E.C
Ask for THE ' BIRD MARK ’ MERINO UNDERWEAR
ON THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound ; containing upwards of Three hundred
of “ Hop’s ’ ’ best drawings. Full Bullktjn size
Price, 21s.


Pre-eminent
as the Queen of Dress Fabrics is the
LOUIS
VELVETEEN,
with all its charming lustrous
finish; draping exquisitely to suit
the clinging fashions of the day—
yet sold at a price within the
reach of all.
DO NOT TOLERATE A SUBSTITUTE.
Every Yard you buy
should be stamped L’O’IH'S
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original and Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
-1/I*, 2/9 & 4/6
sgd
Checks and
arrests Fever
Croup, Ague.
The Best
Remedy
known for
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS.
Acts like a charm in
DIARRHOEA, and is the only
specific in CHOLERA and DYSENTERY.
ENO S ‘FRUIT SALT’
A HOUSEHOLD REMEDY FOR
All Functional Derangements of the Liver, Tempo-
rary Congestion arising from Alcoholic Beverages,
Errors in Diet (Eating or Drinking), Biliousness,
Sick Headache, Giddiness, Vomiting, Heartburn,
Sourness of the Stomach, or Constipation. It is
a Refreshing and Invigorating Beverage, most
Invaluable to Travellers, Emigrants, Sailors, and
Residents in Tropical Climates.
ENO’S 'Fruit salt’ assists the Functions of the Liver, Bowels, Skin and Kidnevs
by Natural Means. There is no doubt that, where it has been taken in the earliest
stages of Bi disease, it hBS, in innumerable instances, prevented a serious illness.
CAUTION .—Examine the Capsule and see that it is marked ENO'S 'FRUIT SALT'
otherwise you have the sincerest form of flattery-IMITATION. '
Prepared only by J. C. BNO, Ltd., * FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, London
S.E., Eng., by J. C. ENO’S Patent.
Sold by Chemists and Stores everywhere.
n
(D)
4930
sgd
Frootoids to-night
and to-morrow you’re right
Few Medicines have leapt into public favor so rapidly or secured so many good opinions in so
short a time as Frootoids. They are not cure-alls—'far from it, —but in cases of headaches,
indigestion, constipation and biliousness they give prompt and complete relief. Taken occasionally
or at such times as you are feeling “out of sorts”, Frootoids will repel pessimism and depression
that are the inevitable accompaniment of a sluggish liver and re-introduce that spirit of cheery
optimism usually associated with good health
As an aperient medicine there is nothing to excel Frootoids, particularily in cases where con-
gestion or blood poison is present, or when congestion of the brain or apolexy threaten.
A dose of Frootoids taken once a week will have a highly beneficial effect on your health,
will permanently cure constipation and by degrees make you quite independent of aperient medicines.
As an economical medicine for those minor ailments, that too often are the fore-runners of
more serious trouble, it is impossible to over-estimate the value of Frootoids.
F rootoids
for Headaches, Indigestion,
Constipation, Billiousness.
Sold by all Chemists and Medicine Vendors or from
W. G. HEARNE 81 Co. Ltd., Geelong, Victoria,


ii
SURE CATCH” is Undoubtedly THE Fishing Tackle to Use.
“ SURE CATCH ”is the Tackle of DISTINCTION, QUALITY and RENOWN. It has stood the Test for^ea^thus l P^ ing itS ABSOLUTE RELIABILII Y ‘
It is used by the Most Prominent Anglers of the day, and CANNOi Bb bXcbLLbu.
“RIG FISH” TACKLE SPECIALITIES.
RODS.
Extra Ouallty Split Cane Rods, 2 joints, 2 tops, steel centre, double-
handed cork grip, strong porcelain rod and end rings, best bronzea
suction ferrules, double brazed, highly finished. Excellent value. A
perfect “ Big Fish ” Rod. 7£ feet, 57/6 each ; 8£ feet, 62/6 each.
Rod A-Very Superior “ Big Fish” Rod, made of mottled cane 3
joints, 2 greenheart tops, one top spliced with whalebone and fitted
with pulley end ring, double swelled grip, hardened snake n ”~ s >
solid winch fittings, extra strong ferrules, double brazed and rubber
button. This rod has been made to our own special instructions.
9 feet, 35/= each ; 10 feet, 37/6 each.
Rod B-The “ Queensland ” Rod, 9$ feet, 4 joints, 2 tops, made of
best seasoned greenheart, lock joints, double brazed, porcelain
bridge and end rings, hardened snake rings, and rubber button,
30/- each.
For EXCELLENCE and STERLING WORTH “ SURE CATCH ” Fishing
Tackle is ABSOLUTELY UNRIVALLED, as IS TESTIFIED by the EVER
INCREASING CROWD of SATISFIED and APPRECIATIVE ANGLERS
from near and far.
REELS.
No. 3C—Nottingham Wood Reels, aluminium lining and flange,
solid brass star back, movable check. very strong line guard. A
perfect reel for “Big Fish.” 5 inch, 22/6 ; 6 inch, 27/6, 6* Inch,
30/- each.
REELS (continued).
No. s—The New “ Lockfast” Tension Big Fish Reels, aluminium
lining and flange, solid brass star back, optional check brass
handle plates. A splendid reel. 4 inch, 18/6 ; 5 inch, 20/- ,
Quality Metal ‘‘Big Fish” Reels, nicke
rims and bars, inntiplying action, leather thumb brake for checking
speed, steel pivots, optional check, interleaved with aluminium,
which greatly strengthens the reel and reduces the weight,
3£ inch, 35/- ; 4 inch, 45/-
The MORE CRITICAL the ANGLER, the MORE EMPHATIC is HIS
APPRECIATION of “SURE CATCH” FISHING TACKLE. THE
TACKLE that CANNOT BE SURPASSED.
SPINNING BAITS.
M.S. Perfect Spinners, a splendid spinner for all game fish. Sizes—
-31 inch, 3/3 each ; 4 inch, 3/9 each.
No. 23—M.S. Paragon Spinners, made specially to our own order,
andean be had in the following sizes : 3 inch, 2/6; 31 inch, 3/-;
4 inch, 3/6; 5 inch, 4/6 each. . . .. . ,
No. 3—Extra Heavy Spoon Baits, scaled back, red insiae, mounted
with extra strong swivels, split rings, and treble hooks. An excel-
lent bait. 3 inch, 2/- ; 31 inch, 3/ ; 4 inch, 3/6 each.
No. 4—Best Quality Ring-mounted Devon Baits, xx heavy and
very strong; specially made for Big Fish.
3 inch, 2/9 ; 31 inch, 3/3 ; 4 inch, 3/9 each.
We hold the foremost reputation for all Angling Requisites.
Give us a Trial and be Convinced.
WIRE. TRACES.
“ Tiger” Traces, made from hand-twisted, flexible stpel wire. A Trace
of enormous strength. Size X, 1/9 each ; Size Y, 2/3 each.
No. I—Steel Wire Traces, li yards long, 9d. each. .
No. 2—“ Hercules” Big Fish Wire Gimp Traces, extra special
quality, 1 yard, 9d. ; l| yards long, 1/3 each.
LINES.
The “Zenith ” Plaited Flax Lines, made from best quality material,
and are splendid lines for all “ Big Fish.” To be had in lengths of
100 and 200 yards. No. 3, 6/6 ; No. 2, 6/9 ; No. 1,7/-.
No. l/o, 7/6 ; No. 2/o, 8/- per 100 yards.
CUT THIS OUT.-
FILL IN THIS COUPON with your name and address , and
roe will forward you by RETURN OF POST a copy of our
AUSTRALASIAN FISHING TACKLE CATALOGUE , the
BEST AND LARGEST TACKLE LIST EVER PUBLISHED.
The talk of the Angling world. Full of useful information.
Name-
Address
Hullrtin - ,
MICK SIMMONS LTD.,
The Largest and Most Progressive Fishing Tackle House.”
Head Depot—
Haymarket, Sydney, N.S.W.
Schute, Bell & Go.
limited.
Wool Stores: Central Wharf. Produce Stores:
Quay. Offices :44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Do not self Fat Stock,
but only Wool, Sheepskins,
Hides, Tallow, etc., and
Marsupial & Rabbit Skins.
Each head of the Company a worker
in the interests of tiieir constituents.
Proceeds protected Trust Account
Bank of N.S.W.
*A.
0
I am a Success!
It wouldn’t do for me to
say so myseif—l’m only repeating
what tens of thousands of thoughtful
friends of mine say as they watch the
even flow of ink recoid their words un-
failingly and unhesitatingly on the paper.
I work silently, unceasingly, never splutter nor scratch.
I am safe in the hands of a child, the perfect fountain
pen, made in England by British labour.
—I do not leak
—I fill myself in a flask
—I clean myself in filling
—i cost 12/- (upwards for a larger sizo):
Tell your Stationer you want an introduction to
Onoto the pen-and ask him to show you how l work.
Then take me away and use me daily. That s what
I’m meant for.
Booklet about me will be sent free to all inter-
ested on application to T. De La Rue &
Co., Ltd., 186 Bunhill Row, London,
or the Australasian Representative,
Norman Baker, 50 York St.,
Sydney.
12 1-
and upwards,
at all Stationers. &c.
44
Peri
ON THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound ; containing upwards of Three hundred
of “ Hop’s ” best drawings. Full Bulletin size
Price. 21s.
rx
\a>
HOTELKEEPERS !
We will Accept Half Your Present
Monthly Cordial Bill in Payment
of an AUSTRAL PLANT.
PERFECT SODA WATER for id. per Dozen!
GINGER ALE and LEMONADE at 3d !
3000 MACHINES IN DAILY USE.
A Postcard will bring our latest Catalogue, post free.
Eckersley & Sons,
Melbourne, and 3 Bond Street, Sydney.
Gold Aedal Paris 1900 # Grand Prize St. Louis 1904
KALODERtIA
sgd
PREPARATIONS
F.tOOLFF«SOHH, Karlsruhe ana London
KQMerma Jelly
prepared with glycerine St honey without
oil or fat, does not grease; Is most
agreeable St efficacious for preventing and allaying irritation.
Knlodermn Soap
prepared with glycerine and honey, a
most refined and delicately perfumed
Toiletsoap,the leading soap for softening fit improving the sKin.
Knlodermn Rice Powder
most popular and refined
toiletpowder. Jcf
Knloderma Shnuins Soap
prepared with the renowned
Kaloderma Jelly undispu-
tedly the most emollient shaving soap on the market,
fl refined luxury at a popular price. Jcf JcT JcT JST
Obtainable from all the leading establishments.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1908 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 6d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Quadrille Call Book,
2s. Adventures of a Flirt, Is. 3d. Parlor Tricks
and Games, Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
Is 2d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. A ust.Miners’Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is 2d post.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce. Us. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ss. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. Tiie Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain for the
British, 6d. How to Read Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, ls6d.
IS
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH. “*S
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River, os 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made EAsy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor • Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d.
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougall Topped the Score, At
Other Verses, Is 3d. The Gay Count, Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the I hist
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. pF" Established 25 Year s .
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot —
16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT.
♦
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
Is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made East, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions of the Risg,
Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. 6d. Secret
History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. 'Vest Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post.
INGERSOLL’S WORKS, Bd, 2S. HOW TO READ HEADS
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book’ over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.


The Wajtojjetßidofthaf __
kmi®
PEPS, the Novel and Direct Cure fcr
Throat and Chest Complaints.
TO BE ALWAYS COUGHING means that a
very serious strain is put upon the delicate
membranes which line the breathing pas=
sages from the back of mouth to the entrance to
the lungs. First the throat and then the bronchi
(the two tubes branching off to the left and right
lungs) are irritated ; (2) tiny blood vessels in the
walls of these tubes are ruptured ; (3) phlegm and
other obstructing matter makes the breathing
difficult; (4) the lining membranes themselves
are apt to be torn by the rapid expulsion of air
from the chest; and (5) thus that hacking cough
takes a firm hold of its unhappy victims.
It is impossible to cure that “dangerous hacking
cough ” unless the internal irritation that provokes the cough is removed.
It is equally impossible to provide against a return of the trouble unless the
torn membranes are repaired and made strong again. Herein lies the peculiar
virtue of Peps, the new breathable remedy.
Thanks to the medicinal vapor that escapes from a Peps tablet in the
mouth, and which can be breathed quite easily down the throat and into the
lungs, the old=standing cough is treated and cured at its source. Peps
clear the throat, loosen phlegm, and extend a healing, grateful and strengthening influence
to the innermost recesses of the chest tissues, far beyond the reach of mere liquid medicine.
Peps accomplish their victory over persistent coughs entirely by treating the affected tissues
direct. Peps contain no opium or other of the nerve-depressing drugs found in ordinary liquid
cough mixtures, and are thus a safe medicine for old and young, strong and frail.
m.
A
i \
v?.?
4/
s®*
VjiV
The strain ol every cent* Imtm
its traces on the lungs."
PEPS SO DIRECT TO THE LUNSS.
COUGHED DAY AND NIGHT.
“For about eight years / suffered from colds every ivinter," says Mr.
E. MA SON, of'Frederick Street, Wellington, N.Z. “I used to cough all
day and all night long, ivhich reduced vie to a perfect wreck. 1 tried
many so-called cough cures, with but little relief. So much benefit did
I derive from a sample of Peps that I determined to give them a fair
trial. 1 purchased a supply, and after a steady course I ivas com-
pletely cured. lam surprised and delighted at the efficacy of Peps
for stubborn winter colds.”
Peps are praised everywhere
by people who have proved
their wonderful power in
cases of colds, bronchitis,
chest colds, etc. From all
chemists and stores at 1/6
and 3/- large box, or direct
from The Peps Pastille Co.,
39 Pitt Street, Sydney.
rs
Fop Coughs,Colds & Bronchitis
Beauty’s Favourite.
The article which excels all others
in improving the beauty of the sKin
is naturally and deservedly beauty’s
favourite. This has been the
acknowledged and honoured
position held by Pears’ Soap for
nearly 120 years. It won, and has
maintained that position by virtue
of its complete purity, and by the
possession of those special emollient
properties which soften, refine,
and impart natural colour to the
akin. No other soap possesses
these cjualities in such a pre-
eminent degree as
PEARS
I
Matchless for the Complexion.
Before a Man Shall Forsake His
Woman.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE floods shall come like an ocean
swelling,
As once on Noah’s kin they came,
And toss man’s bridges for a game,
And beat to wrack man’s widest dwelling,
\nd raze high cities with no foretelling,
And make a waste of all things human
Before a man, that is worth the name,
Before a man shall forsake his woman.
\nd bv great beasts shall man be taken,
And set upon by hordes untame—
Loathed wickedness of unclean frame—
And be by all his kind forsaken.
Yet man shall meet the death unshaken
Else is he brute himself, and no man.
Before he shall lose his manhoods lame,
Before a man shall forsake his woman.
And cloudy thunder shall fall from heaven,
And all the earth be livid with flame,
And the sun and moon be a darkened
shame,
And the stars fall, and the planets seven ,
But man shall laugh at the dropping levin,
Facing the red night like a true man.
And bare his breast to the live stars aim,
Before a man shall forsake his woman.
MAORILAND.
AWAKINO.
The Assassin.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ -m- CAN’T meet you on Sunday. I’m not
going to meet you any more.”
Nettie leaned back among the frag-
rant Cape-broom, jutting its golden spray
through the fence, her eyes upon the ground,
seeking refuge from the open avowal Sid s
stupid obtuseness forced from her.
He stepped forward, his hand fell upon
her shoulder, turning her roughly, compel-
ling her to face the situation. His lingers
broke through the soft material of her
bl °“You hurt!” she said sullenly, her eyes
still averted. But his grip tightened. Nettie
seized greedily on the excuse for tears, l m
sick of you,” she whimpered, “so there!
“There’s someone else.” ,
He was still dragging at her, forcing her
eyes to his. He would allow her no cover,
no subterfuge. She felt she hated him for
th “ Well, what if there is?” She faced him,
a small fury. “Haven’t I a right to please
myself? Look what I’ve put up with. She
was entering up against him the long irrita-
tion, springing from a half-recognised con-
sciousness of her faithlessness and dissimula-
“lf there is ” He threw her off with
such violence that she rebounded from the
fence, and her bonnet was tossed over her
eyes. The moment was tragic, but its bit-
terness was made more bitter by the dis-
placement of a becoming coiffure. _
Nettie tore her hat off. “There is ! There
■is! There is!” she cried.
The girl caught herself up with a gasp.
Sid was looking very ugly just then. In the
eyes that stabbed her there was a vicious
heat, his mouth was slightly open, the under
jaw rigid. Ordinarily, Wood had been con-
sidered a rather nice-looking boy, but for the
moment a nasty suggestion of the gorilla
lurked in his convulsed face and hunched
figure. He seized her by the arms. She
cried out as he dragged her to him; but he
only kissed her —kissed her savagely on the
mouth. „ , ~ ,
“You little beast!” he said. He held her
tightly. “It’s Bodio.” . The pressure in-
creased, bruising her soft, slim body. It s
Bodio.” ••
“Yes, it is,” she answered, defiantly.
“A Dago. A dirty Dago!” He pushed
her away, his face full of disgust.
“He’s lovely. I don’t care what you think.
I don’t care what you say, he’s lovely.”
“A Dago oyster-puncher who smells like
a fish-tip.”
“Better than a measley clerk.”
For a moment it seemed that he might
beat her. She cowered among the bloom,
a small, silky-fair creature, like a cornered
cat, shrinking and fearful, but prepared to
scratch. He stood over her, hating her
with burning intensity. Then he swung
himself away as from some sweet lure, and
fled down the path, almost running.
For over three weeks Sidney Wood saw
nothing of Nettie, but he heard of her often,
and always in association with Gian Bodio,
the dapoer, black-eyed Italian who speared
oysters with amazing dexterity on the right
side of Silvio Panzacchi’s shop front, while
Nettie Mulholland boxed sweets and bagged
bananas behind her natty little counter on
the left. They were to be married, some-
one said, and Gian would open a shop of his
own, and with long hours and short weights,
and the aid of a pretty, indefatigable assist-
ant like Nettie —who, as his would ask
no wage—make “much-a the mon’.”
This had been three weeks of torment for
Sid. Emotions he never dreamed of bred
in his soul, and fed on him. He found him-
self still wideawake in the black morning
hours, writhing in a little hell that seemed
to well out of himself. It amazed him that
Nettie mattered so much. Of course he had
been fond of her; he knew that. But never
would he' have believed he was giving over
to her this power to afflict him day and
night with a sickness of worry, a fever of
thinking that parched him, banished sleep,
mfirdered appetite, and made ordinary com-
panionship hateful. More, there was per-
sistent physical pain. At the back of his
head was a sick nagging ache. He some-
times felt it in his limbs.
Sid had luxurious waking dreams when
his contempt and hatred for Nettie gave way
to an ineffable tenderness, and no thoughts
came but of her prettiness, the softness and
glory of her hair, the warmth of her small
mouth, her sweetness, gentle actions of hers,
loving words. Other rapturous moments
were devoted to the utter destruction of
Gian Bodio, moments full of the glorious
ecstasy of murder. .
Sid was a commonplace youth in a com-
monplace world, suddenly thrust into a vor-
tex of the emotions that make for tragedy.
He was amazed at his own capacity for feel-
in<r while failing to realise how those feel-
ings arose, or to grasp definitely to what they
were directed. Some sense of the awfulness
of life came faintly to him. He felt tear,
and with it resentment against the fates that
had betrayed him into an existence that
promised endless suffering. The Possibility
of happiness, it seemed, had gone from him
one moonlight night, after follow-
ing them like a blackmailer for an hour,
creeping meanly from bush to bush, he saw
Gian kiss Nettie good-night by the Cape-
broom hedge, where he and she had so often
parted. The Italian held her close in his
arms, and kissed her again and again, with
uncouth, noisy kisses Suddenly Sid arose
He understood now what it all meant. He
realised in a moment what the fury and the
fever had prompted. Nettie must die. He
would kill her. .
No argument followed, no self-question-
ing. In his mind there were no doubts. Ihe
one grand, all-important thing in life was
that she should be his; failing this, life lost
significance; it was an impertinence—hers
and his. He slept well that night; he was
cheerful and companionable again at his
work next day. He no longer cherished en-
mity towards Gian Bodio; his soul was ab-
sorbed in the killing of Nettie Mulholland.
That purpose of itself bred a sort of passion
as he nursed it, a passion that absorbed him.
In his mind he accomplished the deed a hun-
dred times in a hundred ways. Never had
he loved Nettie as he loved her now. A de-
licious thrill stirred him as he brooded on
the blow that would still her nimble heart,
and dim the jewel lustre of her eyes. His
dreamings of the murder-hour had all the
delight of a happy lover’s anticipations.
Again and again he went to Silvio Ran-
zacchi’s fish and fruit shop, and watched
Nettie from one of the little dark cribs in
which Panzacchi’s dubious oysters were
eaten, attracted by the white plumpness of
her throat, thinking of the faint drumming
at her side where he had heard her strong
young heart beating. “How?” was an im-
portant question. He thought of many
wavs —the thinking pleased him. He found
pleasure in protracting this murder. He
might have killed her twenty times; but
after two months he was still asking
“When?”
Then he heard she was to be at the trade
picnic with Gian Bodio, and that decided
him. At the picnic, somewhere in the bush,
before the eyes of her Dago, he would kill
her He knew now. Again and again in
his mind he enacted the scene, picturing all
the details, seeing her lying on the grass,
very sweet and beautiful in death, like a
broken flower, blood in her pale gold hair
and staining the whiteness of her linen
dress with vivid patches.
None detected the smallest evidence of
Sid’s intention as they drove to the picnic.
He was in the same drag with Bodio and
Nettie Mulholland. He sang with the rest,
no trace of the despondent lover or the reso-
lute assassin in his boyish face; yet he car-
ried with him the means to the deed, and as
he laughed his right hand clutched the
weapon with almost a caress.
Gian Bodio sat on Nettie’s left. Next her
on the right, pressed very close, was Martin
Sickert, big, black-haired, violet-eyed, hand-
some, a suburban Mephistopheles. He cej-
tainly enjoyed more of Nettie’s attention than
poor Bodio; yet Martin was nothing but
lorryman for 'Sin Me, the Banana King,
with two guineas a week and the beer habit,
Throughout the morning at Grass Creek,
too, Nettie Mulholland flirted openly and iWj
pudently with Sickert, and Bodio sat with
his back to a gum butt, and watched them,
small and silent, no emotion in his pale face,
Nettie was conscious of Bodio, but gave
no thought to Sidney, and he too was watch-
ing. It was not till after dinner, when Mar-
tin was too drunk to be companionable, that
Nettie returned to the Italian. There were
no reproaches. They sat together for half
an hour, and then went off through the
trees and along the creek.
Sid followed. He felt his moment was at
hand. For a mile they sauntered up the
creek, and then they turned. The couple
walked within a few feet of the tree behind
which he was hiding. He might have killed
her then, but he wanted her face to him,
her eyes on his. Near the camp they passed
from view beyond a clump of saplings. He
waited, but they did not re-appear.
Probably they had seated themselves. It
so, here was the place, and now the moment.
He stole forward, crept quietly to the sap-
lings, arose, and pushed his way through,
without a sound, his hand on the weapon,
nis soul hot with resolution.
He stopped. They were there. Nettie
lay upon the grass, Bodio knelt upon her,
his knee crushing her breast, his left hand
gripped about her throat. In his right hand
he held a knife, from the bright blade of
which the sunlight flamed. His face was
close to hers, his teeth bared, and he spat
Roman oaths at her with something of the
tiger, something of the snake. His face was
contorted with abominable malice, hers wild
with the horror of death.
For one tense moment Sidney Wood
gazed down upon the lovers; and then a
heart-burst filled him with blind rage. He
hurled himself at Bodio. He wormed his
body between them, striking furiously. He
felt' the knife cut into his flesh, with a
strange grating and little pain, and struck,
and struck again.
A moment later the two men were on
their feet, fighting. Nettie, crouched down,
backing under cover of the saplings, watched
them, mad with fear.
Sid was sparring and punching with bare
hands. The other slashed with his knife in
a blind fury. Instinctively Wood’s left shot
for the face with every movement of the
Italian. His arms were cut. He got the
knife in his breast again, and then he saw
Bodio’s chin as through a mist, and swung
his right with all the weight and power he
could put into it. The Italian collapsed on
himself, and went down, limp and lifeless.
Sid staggered to his knees, and then fell,
face foremost, across the body of his foe.
Nettie was running towards the picnic
party, white and wild, shrieking “Murder!
murder!”
The men found Gian Bodio on his knees,
still dazed; but Sidney Wood lay prone,
bleeding from a dozen wounds.
“Take care of Nettie,” he whispered.
“For God’s sake take care of Nettie. The
Dago will kill her!”
As they lifted him, a loaded revolver fell
from the right-hand pocket of his coat.
EDWARD DYSON.


HOW TIRED I AH!”
N o one knows the suffering some women quietly endure.
They think it is only natural for them to have pain in the back,
throbbing headaches, dizzy spells, rheumatic twinges, irregular
heart, and to feel tired and worn out before the day is half
through. And so they bear up as best they can, in patience
and without complaint, never thinking they can be cured, never
suspecting the kidneys as the cause of their illness.
But it is not right for women to be always ailing, and the
best proof of this is given in the outspoken statements of Sydney
women who have been made well, and kept well, by Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills, the great kidney and bladder medicine
for men and women, old and young. Doan’s Pills gently heal
the tired, overworked kidneys, and when the kidneys are well
they take out the liquid poisons which cause the above
symptoms, as well as bladder disorders, gravel, dropsy, rheu-
matism, lumbago, and wasting away.
Backache and Kidney Trouble Cured.
Mrs. F. V. Richards, “ Earlswood,” Rawsop Street, St. Leonards, says :—“For about 12 months I was *
martyr to kidney complaint. At times I used to cry with the terrible pains in my back ; I could not do my house-
work. Many a time I have had to get a neighbor to come and rub my back with liniment. I was treated by a
doctor for a considerable time, but he did me no good. I heard that Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills were curing
similar cases, and decided to try them. They gave me relief at once, and a cour-e of the pills perfectly cured rue.
It is four years since I was cured, and I have never had any return of the complaint. I can do my housework now
without constant torture. I cannot speak too highly of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills.”
*
m
/ 1
111
\
"frvery Picture
► Tells Story"
sgd
DOAN’S
Backache
Kidney
PILLS.
At all Chemists and
Stores , 2lp per bottle
(six bottles, ij/j) ;
or from Foster-
McClellan Coj6
Pitt Street, Sydney.
Damosseno.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HEMMED tyith the reeking crowd,
Seeing, yet seen of none,
Watching the bent necks every one
To the roped-in ringside bowed,
Silent as when on Cyprian sands
Creucante’s blood on the greedy ground
Widened and reddened —my ghostly hands
With the ghostly cestus bound —
Phantom-familiar of nights like these
Alway am I, Damoxenes,
Chosen and ehiefest then,
Lord of the circus-sand
Was I, swift body and surest hand
Of the old-world cestus-znen,
Till that black morning, memory-dim.
When Kreugas died —though I strove in-
stead —
Pollux my witness—to buffet him
As himself had buffeted—
No more; yet the dead with bay they
crowned,
Vnd scourged me with whips from the
circus-ground.
So by the hempen ring,
On floor or on trampled green,
Since that dark day I wait unseen,
Looking and listening
For the shuffle of feet on trodden grass,
The rubbing of soles in the resin-tray,
The panting as locked forms clinch and pass,
Apd the jolt in the breakaway—
Paying blood-penance, as needs I must,
Till life and the old earth drop to dust.
I have watched while stout men, set
In the hand-clasp, each to each,
On the sward by an English river-reach,
Severed and swung and met:
I have stood by tbe stolid cursing line
Of bull-faced ringmen with licking whips,
And the roar ot the crowd was as Chian
wine
To a Lesbian exile’s lips—
Till some, for their bets or their oroken
hopes,
Slipped by my elbow and slit the ropes.
When, from the crowd-skirts twirled,
The circling castor flew.
Di-opping aslant for an answer new
To a world-old challenge hurled—
From the first glad grip of the brew-stained
fist,
And the fierce intake of the sucking breath
Lest the first blood show—to the buttock-
twist
And the crashing fall beneath—
There by the stakes through the inaz*ching
years,
Were my close-cropped head and my battered
ears.
Under the dangling lights.
Here in the shouting hall,
Crammed from the floor to the topmost wall,
I stand through Southern nights,
Till the spent guard droops, the slack knee
flags .
At the quick cross-counter, and hope is gone,
And swift lights spin, and the blank mind
sags
To blind oblivion—
While, cleaving the drone of the distant
town,
A voice drops, checking the seconds down.
I am Damoxenes,
And ever the changing charm
Of weaving paces and wary arm,
Red knuckles and rocking knees,
Draws at my heart when the fight begins—
Seeing, yet seen of none beside,
Haunting the four-squai‘e ringside, since
The day that Kreugas died,
Paying blood-penance, as needs I must.
Till life and the warm earth drop to dust.
VICTORIA.
J. ALEX. ALLAN.
Snaring a Satyr.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HE classic satyr was, of course, a
mere creation of fancy ; but, since the
mias is zoologically known as Simla
satyrus, I thought the term “satyr” good
enough for a head-line. The creature’s
other name is “Orang-outang,” which is
Malay for “wild man,” and, as any Austra-
lian may observe at the Zoo, the face does
indeed present a hideous travesty of the
human countenance, though the expression,
strange to say, suggests mildness and melan-
choly rather than ferocity. Mild and harm-
less the mias is, too, unless he is attacked :
when, as we shall see presently, he can be
as fierce as his terrific congener, the gorilla.
And, though he does not equal the latter in
size and strength, he is not much inferior in
damaging capacity.
Towards the end of 1880, myself and an-
other white wanderer were sojourning at a
Dyak village near Mattang, about 100 miles
south of the Kapuas River. I had been
zoologising, and he botanising, in the neigh-
borhood for about three months, and we
were just thinking of getting further inland
towards the head-waters of the Pembuan,
when, with an escort of northern Dyaks, a big,
bearded, spectacled German person arrived,
and presented a letter from the Resident at
Pontianak, introducing Dr. Weissberg, man
of science and emissary from Hagenbach,
the great wild-beast merchant at Hamburg.
Well, ready as I was to oblige the Resident,
who was a fine, hospitable old boy, I didn’t
see much prospect of bringing the German’s
mission to a successful issue. He was pre-
pared to pay a high figure for the capture,
alive and uninjured, of a full-grown male
mias.
I shook my head when he told me. “The
only way in which it could be done,” I said,
“would be by managing to surprise one on
the ground, and then ‘roping’ him, as the
American cowboys rope the grizzly-bear.
But we have no lasso-experts here. < What
do you say about it, Jack?”
“Can't be done,” answered Fetherston the
laconic. “Ask Siddra.”
Siddra was the Orang-Kaya—the head-
man —of the Sukadana Dyaks, a crowd of
whom had now gathered round Weissberg
and his escort, much to the uneasiness of the
latter, who were Sambas Dyaks, and not on
too good terms with the Sukadanas. Siddra
agreed. An old-man mias might be caught
alive, he said, if we first disabled his arms
with our rifles. Otherwise he didn’t see
much chance. Still, if we decided to make
the attempt, he and his men would help.
<T may here interpolate that you cannot beat
a Sukadana for pluck, while, as for strength,
he is, like all Dyaks, a perfect marvel for
his size.)
Well, it was arranged that we should head
westward into the swampy forest -land near
the coast, a favorite haunt of the giant ape;
Siddra bringing with him about 20 Dyaks.
armed with spears and parangs. As 1 had
said, we had no lasso-artists amongst us,
but we thought that, if we could surprise a
mias on the ground, there would be an off-
chance that one of the Dyaks, rushing up to
within a few yards, might be able to fling a
running noose round the animal’s neck, so
that others could tail-on, and temporarily
cut off his lung-supply of air, while the rest
made him fast otherwise. The line we had
with us was 2|-ineh manila (about f-inch
diameter) ; slight enough to "run” well,
yet strong enough to hold an elephant.
The day was murderously hot, for we
were within less than two degrees of the
equator, and perhaps the temperature had
something to do with our extraordinary good
fortune. For, treading noiselessly over the
soft, swampy ground, we were suddenly
halted by a swift signal from the leading
Dyak, who then came cautiously back to
Siddra, said something in a low voice, and
pointed to a little “island” of drier soil that
rose a few feet above the soft ground The
old man gazed keenly for a few moments;
then came to me and pointed also to the
“island.”
This slight elevation was covered with
short ara-grass, and, near the middle, a
small, reddish-brown object showed up
strongly against the light green. Siddra
touched my binocular-case, and—still with-
out a word spoken—l took out the glasses
and levelled them. Yes, certainly—that
was the hideous, lead-colored countenance of
a mias, lying flat on his back, with a long
and mighty arm stretched out on each side,
and his grotesque little legs gathered up
against his hairy paunch. I nodded my
head as I handed the glasses to Siddra, who
only needed half a glance.
. “Great is our fortune this day,” he half-
whispered. “Never but once in his life
before hath Siddra beheld a mias asleep on
the ground without being near unto the tree
of safety. Consult now, my lord, with the
Tuan Federson, and with the Orang Be-
landa, for verily this is a thing that hap-
peneth not often.”
This reads almost like Scripture, but it is
the only way of doing any kind of justice to
the. flowery and circumlocutory Malay tongue,
which Siddra, by the way, expended only
upon white men. In his vernacular he
could be curt enough. “Tuan” signifies
“prince,” and Orang Belanda means Dutch-
man—which was a good enough shot on Sid-
dra’s part at the German’s nationality.
The result of our consultation was that
the Dyaks were ordered to surround tbe dry
patch, the swiftest runner of them—Rujut,
by name—being provided with a noose made
with a running-bowline on a 30-foot scope
of line, whilst the others carried supplemen-
tarv lengths, with which to bind the foe
when he should have been judiciously hall-
strangled. Then we whites tbok our places
in the cordon, and we all began to close
cautiously and silently in. So noiseless was
our approach, jn fact, that I do not think
Rujut was more than 15 yards from the
mias when the beast awoke and sprang up.
No —not “sprang,” but raised himself swiftly
on his little, bandy legs, and, with his
knuckles on the ground, stood nearly erect,
so immensely long were his arms.
For a few seconds his eyes had a dull and
bewildered expression; then, as he grasped
the situation, they flashed into ferocious scin-
tillation ; the low forehead crushed itself
down over them in savage corrugation, and
the huge, lipless mouth displayed a for-
midable armature of teeth, with “tusks”
nearly as big as a lion’s. I only saw the
beast thus for a very short space of time,
of course, but he is photographed on my
mind for ever by reason of the horribly in-
human-human suggestiveness of his appear-
ance.
Then Rujut darted swiftly forward, and
the noose flashed out. It descended fairly
upon the massive shoulders, but, before it
could be drawn taut, the mias, with incred-
ible swiftness, whipped one hand within the
loop, gripped the hauling part with the
other, as far out as he could reach, and.
with a sudden, tremendous pull, jerked
Rujut, who still held manfully on,
into grasping-distance. Then —too late—
the unfortunate Dyak let go, for, as he
turned to run, he stumbled and fell, and in
an instant the brute was upon him. Fling-
ing the noose off his neck with one hand, he
clutched Rujut’s left wrist with the other,
dragged the hand to his mouth, and —
crunch!
It was horrible. All thought of eaptur
ing the niias alive vanished instantly. I
whipped out my “Colt,” and rushed in with
the rest; but, even as the foremost Dyak
plunged a spear into the huge, hairy chest,
the furious beast’s teeth gripped Rujut’s
shoulder till we heard the bones crack. Then
half a dozen parangs cleft the huge skull,
and the mias, with an expiring effort, swiped
out on both sides with his giant arms, knock-
ing over like ninepins such of us as were
within reach. Together with Fetherston
and a Dyak, I was beaten down by.the left
arm. Fetherston, who got it on the fore-
head, was knocked senseless, the Dyak had
his teeth badly smashed; and I, who stopped
only a small portion of the dynamic,, re-
ceived a bash on the nose the effects of
which are visible to this day.
So Dr. Weissberg—and, by consequence,
ITagenbach of Hamburg—didn’t get, his
“full-grown male mias, alive and uninjured.”
And none of us were sorry, for, when the
fray was over, we found that the big and
burly German was perched tin a tree at a
safe distance from the scene of action.
Rujut did not die. He had only the
thumb remaining on his left hand, and his
right shoulder was horribly crushed, and
mangled, but: what the physiologists call
“disvulnerability” is strong in the Dyaks—
as it is also in our Australian blacks, who
often recover rapidly from a wound that
would inevitably be the death of a white
man.
MONTALEX.


The
Oil Engine
MARY
ntl MARINE
URPOS E 5
No
Carburetter
or
Vaporiser.
gd
o
Ignition
makes the following claims upon your attention :
1— It uses cheap lamp oil (such as kerosene), and other residuals.
2 The oil is injected directly into the cylinder, thus dispensing with unre-
liable and inefficient vaporisers.
3 It is very simple in construction, there being no electric ignition or other
complicated mechanism.
4 -Its speed* are such that electric generators and* centrifugal pumps may
be coupled direct.
<5 —rNo skilled labor iss required, the supply of fuel and lubricant being all
the attention necessary.
FULL PARTICULARS FBOM
The Wesiinghouse Brake Company of Australasia Ltd.,
14 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY,
Queensland Agents: Holmes & Church, Brisbane.
sgd
Latest Standard HOT
ELECTRIC
connected
Cool Handle.
Hot Iron
MADE ill 31b. and Gib. weights ; in sizes 2f"x s£", and 4" x 6£" ;
with a 330, 500 and 575 wattage. Prices 25/-, respectively. 1
It has a pressed steel top, metal covered plug—easy to re-
move—a glittering mirror finish —and, over all, our guarantee.
Thoroughly efficient for both light and heavy work; simple, yet
Strong ; clean, handy and inexpensive. Can also be supplied in
larger sizes for Laundries and Tailors up to 30ib.
FURTHER PARTICULARS ON APPLICATION TQ
W. G. WATSON & CO.,
CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Club Rum.
Dog Head Stout. King’s Liqueur Whisky.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
1
o
g 5
£££ a*!
m
o
33
!> C3L
CO
sgdsgd
NOTICE.
In consequence
.of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see that
“Dinneford &Co."
is on every bottle
and label.
Physician’s
ure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel,
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
MAGNESIA
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
li
11
sgd
2 ii„rstpower
*' Farmer’s Friend **
Portable.
ENGINES WORK
ON OIL OR GAS-
Guaranteed
2 Years.
Sawing, t _ vr _„„
and Pumping Outfits”
4, 8, or 12-h.p. complete,
Portable or Stationary.
sgd
ON TERMS
All complete, with Tanks and
Pipes, f.o.b. Sydney. You have
no fittings to buy—everything
is supplied by us.
Larger Engines at propor-
tion te Prioes and Terms.
Write for Catalogue.
RTRIDGE 8 HODGSON,
49 York Street, SYBNEY
339 Collins St., MELBOURNE
PUBLIC OPINION
is generally sane and trustworthy. It is only an really insignifi-
cant tjind unimportant matters that the sense of the community is
ever at fault. The sentiments and opinions of the world are more
likely to be right than those of the isolated critic. This is partic-
ularly true of such matters qs must be decided by the test of expe-
rience. What the majority have proved in practice to be true
ought, tp weigh with us as an established fact. Now if there is one
question more than another on which public opinion is unanimous
it' is that the excellence of BEECH AM’S PILLS as a family medi-
cine is unsurpassed. Their universal popularity has very suitably
been expressed in the world-famed expression
BEECHAM’S
PILLS
ARE WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
Prepared only by THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens. Lancashire.
Sold everywhere in boxes, price ///J {56 pi Is) & 2/9 (168 pills).
During the Progress of our GREAT REMOVAL
SALE we are offering the following-
Usual Price. Sale Price
Double - Barrelled, Breech - loading
Guns, engine-turned rib, left, bar-
rel full choke, right modified, re-
bounding locks and pistol grip.
Trial .£5 2 6 £3 12 6
Single-Barrel Duck Guns, large bore,
to kill at 100yds. Trial
Single-Barrel, HammerleSs, Breech-
loading Guns,choke bore, excellent
'stock. Trial
Double - Barrelled, Breech - loading
Guns with Greener patent wedge
fast cross bolt, choke bore, walnut
stock, pisiol grip, patent cartridge
ejector. Trial.. ..
Special Pigeon Guns, with patent
side .clips, file cut rib, top lever,
choke bore, specially selected wal-
nut stock, Greener patent wedge
, fast cross bolt. Trial .. ...10
Mauser Principle Rifles, 22 calibre,
kill at 300yds. Trial .. .. 15
Guns by All Makers in Stock.
Write for Specia.l Sale Catalogue.
ALL ORDERS FOR GUNS AND RIFLES DE-
LIVERED CARRIAGE PAID TO ANY ADDRESS
IN AUSTRALASIA.
iSmall Arms Co.
Gunsmiths &. Importers-
-242-24- Bourke Street, MELBOURNE
8 6 0 6 10 0
3 10 0 l 17 6
6 10 0 4 17 6
00 7 10 0
13 6
msmm
E
gd
isg by indian ciGAji -
J’he'Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
in use since 1596.
CURES
Austral'an Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist lor its history—the book is free— or write
S- GREEN, 210, Lambeth Koad, London, Eng.
CANT
B
BEAT
RIAP
PIPES
ALL SHAPES
J/-EACH POST FREE 1/2
Quality Not Better
in a
Guinea Pipe
MICK SIMMONS
SYDNEY.
r STOREKEEPERS & TOBACCONISTS
SHOULD SEND TOR OUR TRADE LIST
THREE WITCHES
CIGARETTES.
MORRISS I
iieeWtcf»«
CI9A*ITTIS
■X
for
HIGHEST GRADE.
§8 per 100, Post Free.
MICK SIMMONS, SYDNEY
Storekeepers and Tobacconists should
send for our Trade Lists.
sgd
Superior to
INJECTIONS
ICUBEBS and
COPAIBA.
Cures the same
diseases -without
inconvenience,
in
48 hours
i the name
m
gd
gď
G
Borated Goldenseal
Compound
A safe and simple remedy for
Bronchitis, Catarrh, Hay Fever
Inflammations, Irritations, ulcer-
ations of ALL mucous membranes
or lining's of the nose, throat,
stomach or urinary organs.
AT CHEMISTS
Why not cure yourself
Treat! se wi th jach bottle
or mailed on requost.
Hie Evans Chemical Co.
Ciadnaaii, Ohio,
o.s.aT®
s*l
i
o
BILIOUS SUBJECTS
are generally victims of Constipation, that root evil of so many
terrible afflictions ; but they are “ bilious subjects” no longer when
they adopt the famous Cockle’s Antibilious Pills as the standing
household remedy, now in the
Second Century of World-Wide Renown.
Cockle s PiUs, which doctors of six generations have taught the world
o useand esteem, haveno harsh, coercive action on the sluggish organs;
t gently stimulate, soothingly strengthen and encourage, the natural
otgamc functions, at the same time thoroughly cleansing the system and
pun vmg the vital fluid There is nothing to equal Cockle’s Pills for
ns perfect cleansing, reinvigorating, purifying combination of results,
ft is marvellous.
đg


ARCHITECTS specify
MACK PARTITIONS
and have a Kire-Proof,
•Sound-Proof
and Vermin-Proof
DIVIDING WALD.
Write for our Catalogue, or call and inspect.
maciT ltd.,
Royal Insurance Buildings,
Cor. PITT and SPRING STREETS, SYDNEY.
Willans & Robinson, Limited,
For♦ • •
Electrical Generators,
Blowers, Fans,
etc., etc.
sgd
For. ..
High Pressure
and
Mixed Pressure Steam.
AUSTRAL 1 \n
AGENCY:
T. K. STEANES, 39 Pitt Street, Sydney. l 8
Fibro-Cement
WHAT IS IT? Portland Cement, rein-
forced with A shestos. It bus the strength and
durability of concrete, and the cool and fire-proof
quality of Asbestos. It is, therefore, strong,
light, durable, cool, ant- and fire-proof, artistic in
appearance.
Made in Slates for roofing, Red, Grey and Purple.
In Sheets Bft. 2iln. x 4ft. for Walls, Lining
and Ceilings.
Used by the Australian Governments ; also for covering
Churches, Villas, Homesteads, Dairies, Silos, etc.
Write for Illustrated Catalogue “B” to Sole Importers,
JAMES HARDIE & CO.,
Circular Quay West, SYDNEY ; and
581=583 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
ri'lHE BEST STQRIES written in Australia
JL appear iu The Lone Hand each month.
Price sixpence.
WOLFE’S
The Family Stimulant.
FOR MEN
FOR WOMEN
SCHNAPPS
Motor Driven
‘BON ACCORD’
STEEL LINED
CENTRIFUGAL
PUMP
For PUMPING
SLIMES, TAIL-
INGS, etc. Also
for DREDCINC
ORES, GRAVEL,
SAND & STONES
sgd
“BON ACCORD”
Centrifug'al Pumps.
HIGH EFFICIENCY.
»
For Sand Pumping', Sewerage, Salvage, Condensing'.
Irrigating, Draining', DocK Pumping', Mine Pumping, etc.
J WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR, Ltd., 82 Pitt St.,Sydney
ENGINEERS,
IRON FOUNDERS,
BOILER MAKERS,
&Ciji &Ci
MEPHAN FERGUSON
PROPRIETARY LIMITED-
iOV ERNI'G
MEPHAN FERGUSON
ROBERT SHAND
Office and Works;
!£ Vv J'&'i'TVJ
.Ivliii MB
>' fi >'
Gordon St., Foot
Victoria.
■
Manufacturers of
WROUGHT IRON,
CAST IRON, and
STEEL PIPES.
ntral
(3236
(5221
sgd
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LIMITED"
AGENTS FOR ERNEST SCOTT & MOUNTAIN, LIMITED, GATESEND ON TYNE, ENGLAND.
ďsg
IMPROVED
DESIGNS.
EXHAUST FANS AND BLOWERS
Adapted for All Services.
Exhausting Refuse from Woodworking Plants .
Ventilating Factories and Public Buildings.
Mine Ventilation .
Forced and Induced Draft for Boilers.
Supplying Blast to Cupolas, Furnaces and Forges.
Exhausting Smoke and Fumes, etc.
FULL INFORMATION and PRICES
OR A PPLICA TtON.
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.,
Engineers and Machinery Merchants, 60 Clarence St., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
*
sdg
WRITE FOR
CATALOGUES.
MINING SUPPLIES'*" 6 *
Drill Steel, Oil, Candles,
Explosives,
etc.
a#®
t
%
TO
ROCK DRILLS,
AIR COMPRESSORS,
CONCENTRATORS, and the
World-Famed B. & M. Agitating Tanks for Cyanide
KEROSENE HOIST.
