

9
The EMBODIMENT OF PERFECTION
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
- FOR—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
■ .. ,0
1
m
Herbert’s
Machine Tools.
Less Work —More Profits.
535 Kent Street, Sydney,
486 Collins Street, Melbourne.
S.A. Agent: C. C. DELAND, Victoria Square, Adelaide.
EEOfe A.RT.
— Ufa —-
jjadley’s Orient jjotel.
PIONEER
LEATHER BELTING
Goarantbkd.
J. C. Ludowici & Son, Ld.
ll7 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
(,
1
Take it back.
I must have
MUTTON’S
Pine Apple Brand
HAMS ®
BACON.
mmm
FIT PERFECTLY
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets is
recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the digea*
fcive organs.
J
HA N S E N’S
TABLETS
For INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially-prepared Tablets acts most
beneficially when taken daily after meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prlxe Medals.
5*
279 George Street Sydney .
.0? *
Money advanced upon ail Securities at Reasonable
Rates of Interest.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
THIS COMPANY WAS FORMED TO SUPPRESS BSPBY.
And at MELBOURNE, BRISBANE and NEWCASTLE.
f
ĥ
COCOA.
SUPERIOR
IN
EVERY WAY.
The roofing you need is Malthoid
Roofing. It will protect you equally
well from the heat of summer and
the cold and storms of winter.
TOE PARAFFINE PAINT COMPANY, CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
D. S. Evans, Australasian Manager.
ħ
KUPPER LAGER.
Age
Guaranteed.
9
*
HELIDON SPA WATER
“Would be, could be” Spa’s, drawn from coal measures, limestone
regions, or saline cordial room inventions, only perform “ Gas=bag ”
duties for the seller and for the buyer too.
DEWHURST 8
Agents.
Ltd.
The Bulletin
Vol. 32.—N0. 1643.1
[Thursday, August 10, J 911.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


ĥ
Lucas and Le Souef: Birds of Australia, 215., p. 21s. 3d.
Hanson, J. M.: Frontier Ballads, 3s. 6d., posted 3s. Bd.
Mason, B. : The Song- Lore of Ireland, 7s. 6d., p. 7s. lOd.
Oambray, P. 6. : Irish Affairs, 45., posted 4s. 3d.
Humphreys/, J. H. : Proportion's! Representation, 65.,
posted, 6s. 4d.
The Great Oil Octopus, gs., posted 6s. 3d.
Miles, Mrs. E. : The Ideal House, 45., posted 4s. 3d,
Martin, G.: Triumphs and Wonders of Modern Chem-
istry, 95., posted 9s. 4d.
Alexander, J. : The Truth about Egypt, 95., posted9s. 4d.
Ward, G. H. B. : The Truth about Spain, 95., p. 9s. 4d.
O’Brien, R. B. : One Hundred sears of Irish History,
Is. 3d., posted Is. sd.
Coutts and Steplien : Library Book Binding, 95., p. 9s. 3d.
Bull, A. E. : Sound Business, 75., posted 7s. 4d.
Marshalls, A.: Sunny Australia, 3s. 6d., posted 3s. 9d. /
Harris, F. : Tne Man Shakespeare, 65., posted Gs. 4d.
Og-g-’s Weather Forecast, July to Dec., 1911, Is., p. Is. Id.
McFadden’s Sweethearts for Life, 4s. 6d., posted 4s. 9d.
ROBERTSON’S,
Booksellers, 238 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
HUDSON’S
“EUMENTHOL JUJUBES.”
The Great Antiseptic and Prophylactic,
contains no cocaine or other poisonous
drug.
For COUGHS, COLDS, SORE THROATS,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA, and the
PREVENTION OF CONSUMPTION.
The Lancet Laboratory report is conclusive evidence
of the value of “ Eumenthol Jujubes as an Antiseptic.”
The Lancet says “ Proved to be as effective
bactericidally as is creosote.”
ħ
A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
0. The Bronchial
Tubes of a dis-
sected Lung.
D. A Lobe of one
Sold by all Chemists, post free on receipt of 1/6 stamps.
EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL COMPANY, LTD., 19 York Street, SYDNEY.
the Australian States, New Zealand, and at 320 Regent Street, London.
h
The RED PAGE
A Ballad by Chesterton
Into the midst of the Coronation verse
dropped The Ballad o] the 1 White Horse
(Methuen), in which G. K. Chesterton
glorifies a King who was a king, and states,
in another way, Ins' belief in simple folk
and the power of Faith. Chesterton in a
frock coat and etceteras writing for the
penny press of a degenerate age is a strange
anomaly. He would have been happily
situated as Friar Tuck, making merry play
with quarter staff or long bow, eating his
haunch of Denison and drinking his gallon
of ale at a meal, and at whiles, delivei’ing a
rousing sermon. He preaches now by jaunty
paradox and fantastic novel. He writes of
things seen through a mystic glass, which at
aixy rate is his own. Much of his prose is
surface shpw to attract the multitude. In
verse he is more natural, and his first book
—The Wild Knight and Other Poems —has
some uncommonly good things. This long
Ballad of the White Horse reconstructs
King Alfred of the burnt cakes legend,
shows how faith made him strong, and car-
ries him with sweeping energy thi-ough a
great battle in the Vale of the White Horse
to the final rout of the Hanes. Here Ches-
terton is in his element, and decidedly in-
teresting.
“This ballad,” he says, “needs no histori-
cal notes, for the simple reason that it does
not profess to be historical. All of it that
is not frankly fictitious, as in any prose
romance about the past, is meant to empha-
sise tradition rathfer than history.” In the
dedication to his wife he explains:
Yet Alfred is no fairy tale;
His days as our days ran.
He .also looked forth for an hour
On peopled plains and skies that lower,
From those few windows in the tower
That is the head of a man.
But who shall look from Alfred’s hood
Or breathe his breath alive?
His century like a small dark cloud
Drifts far; it is an eyeless crowd,
Where the tortured trumpets scream aloud
And the dense arrows drive.
Lady, by one light only
We look from Alfred’s eyes,
We know he saw athwart the wreck
The sign that hangs about your neck,
Where One more than Melchizedek
Is dead and never dies.
Melchizedek came in handy just there. Oc-
casionally Chesterton throws the accent on
an “a” or “the” ; he borrows from Kipling
for the lines:
The people of the peace of God
Went l-oaring down to die.
and from Milton for “dazed with insolence
and ale.” But in the rush these little things
don’t matter.
“Follow a light that leaps and spins,
Follow the fire unfurled!
For riseth up against realm and rod,
A thing forgotten, a thing downtrod,
The last lost giant, even God,
Is risen against the world.”
Roaring they went o’er the Roman wall,
And roaring up the lane,
Their torches tossed, a ladder of fire,
Higher their hymn was heard and higher,
More sweet for hate and for heart’s desire,
And *up in the northern scrub and brier
They fell upon the Dane.
In the battle one named Eldred, of gigan-
tic pi’oportions, did great damage:
His face like a sanguine sunset,
His shoulder a Wessex down,
His hand like a windy hammer-stroke;
Men could not count the ci’ests he broke,
So fast the crests went down.
As the tall white devil of the Plague
Moves out of Asian skies,
With his foot on a waste of cities
And his head in a cloud of flies;
Or purple and peacock skies grow dark
With a moving locust-tower ;
Or tawny, sand-winds tall and dry,
Like Hell’s i-ed banners', beat and fly,
When death comes out of Araby,
Was Eldred in his hour.
But it was Alfred’s faith that wrought the
miracle which gave them victory.
When the end came,
And Wessex lay in a patch of peace,
Like a dog in a patch of sun.
emissaries from distant lands visited Alfred,
and pirate kings came to be christened,
For not till the night’s blue slate is wiped
Of its last star utterly,
And fierce new signs writ there to read,
Shall eyes with such amazement heed,
As when a great man knows indeed
A greater thing than he.
The Athenceum reports the death on June
20 of Mowbray Morris, who was aide-de-
camp to Sir James Fergusson when Governor
of £>.A. from 1869 to 1873. While in S.A.,
Morris wrote the well-known “Voice from
the Bush,” which unconsciously echoed Gor-
don’s “Sick Stocki-ider,” and was for a long
time included in the collected edition of
Gordon’s poems. Morris was born in 1848,
was dramatic critic for The Times, editor
of Macmillan’s Magazine, and author of
Tales from the Spanish Main, and other
books.
Young Germany in Literature
(An Interview with an Austrian writer.)
Mr. Henry Hemmer, an Austrian writer
at present in Sydney, is surveying Austra-
lian literature in order to give some idea of
it to German readers. After a good deal of
travelling in Europe and America, he finds
Australia a delectable land in which life
may be enjoyed by anyone “who does not
wake up every morning hungry for new sen-
sations, or who does not rush through each
day in a frantic chase after dollars.”
So far Mr. Hemmer has been impressed
most by the stories of Henry Lawson. He
has sent a translation of some of them to his
paper, Simplicissivius, the Munich journal
which Tolstoy thought was the best of its
kind in the world.
“In Lawson’s stories I .find the natural
man, the touch of the primitive. That, too,
is one thing which has interested me very
much in my experience of Australians; I
mean that you meet here so often the un-
sophisticated, the plain man with character.
It is a relief, believe me, after so much of the
artificial, the snob, and what Bernard Shaw
calls ‘the half mis-educated’. . . .1 think Law-
son’s stories will be liked by many German
readers. There is a group of writers there—
Young or Youngest Germany—a literary
school similar to the Impressionists in paint-
ing. These writers bring new characters
and new life into literature. Lawson’s
work, though it does not cut deep, would ap-
peal to their public.
“I understand that not much modern Ger-
man literature is known here. It is sad to
think that Frenssen’s Jorn Uhl is the best-
known German novel. How Would you like
English fiction to be represented by The
Christian of Hall Gaine? Well, Frenssen is
one of our ‘best sellers’; Sudermann, too. At
the beginning Sudermann produced a work of
art — Frau Sorge, his first novel; since then
he has made plays for the theatre, and books
for circulation
“Young Germany has no acknowledged
leader in Germany; but Hauptmann is
already a classic. The most popular writers
—amongst literary people, I mean—are
Sctmitzler, the char incur, the line analyser of
the modern soul; and Hoffmansthal, the
aesthetic, and, at the same time, eclectic poet.
Heinrich Mann is a novelist who draws his
characters from the Renaissance period with
added hysteria. Other favorite authors
little known in the Anglo-Saxon world are
Hermann Hesse, a dreamy Swiss, Wasser-
mann, a Viennese Jew, and Thomas Mann —
all novelists; Max Halbe and Ludwig Fulda
—dramatists. These appeal to people who
are both modern and moderate, the milder
readers take.to Clara Viebig, Ricarda Huch
and (God forgive them) to Ompteda, whilst
the wildly ultra modern go in for Wedekind,
who, like Richard- Dehinel, is a perverted
romanticist, and is the best representative
of litterature brutal. To the latter class
also belong O. E. Hartleben, the dipso-
maniac, and Ewers, the Poe of our day.
Then there are Volmoller, who translates
D’Annunzio and imitates his rich and sopor-
ous language (by the we translate
nearly every foreign book of any importance
whatever), and my friend Peter Altenberg,
a philosophical troubadour who writes im-
pressionist sketches of the utmost brevity,
and is trying to solve the riddle of the
Sphinx called Woman.
“You have read Weininger’s Sex and Char-
acter-. well, that is the key to Young Ger-
many, as it is the key to the Woman question.
“If I were to sum up the characteristics of
the Young German school of writers, I should
say that they were unconventionality,
straightforwardness tending to a reckless and
extravagant honesty. They disregard rusty
ideals and revered old piasters. Goethe re-
mains, for he is still vital-; Novalis has beeh
exhumed and put in his Rightful place. The
gentle habit of making things poetic,
instead of seeing them so, has been aban-
doned ; the conventional lie of rhyme has
been dropped. The new style is impressionist,
the new tempo is swift, and the new tem-
peramentl^—what shall I say ?—unreticent, un-
reined, go-straight-ahead-and-damu-the-conse-
quences. Of course, some of their work would
be objectionable to English readers, for, since
John Bull married Mrs. Grundy, he will not'
allow his children to call a spade a spade.
“The characteristic literature of Germany
is, in a pnrase, neo-romantic. It has passed
from the old romanticism which evaded the
grosser realities, through the realism which
gave nothing else, to the search for romance
in reality, and takes all life for its province.
“The great difference between the old and
the new writers is in regard to the position
of woman. The moderns eliminate the sen-
timental and bloodless, and accentuate the
sensitive and sensual. The influence of both
Nietzsche and Weininger is very great;
Weininger has this advantage: he wrote
the philosophy of an already existing litera-
ture —that of Strindberg, the Swedish drama-
tist. All cultured Germans read Strind-
berg and the other great Scandinavian,
Knut Hamsun. (Really, it is a wonder to
ine that Hamsun ha:s not been translated
into English yet.) But the Russians are
held in still greater regard—Tolstoy, Dos-
toieffsky, Gorky, Tchekov. Tolstoy was the
last of the giants—one of the old prophets
in modern surroundings. He was Mankind
raised to the highest power. Shakespeare
was a great writer; Tolstoy was a great
Man. The Russians and the Scandinavians
(many names could be added to those
already mentioned) are the models on which
Young Germany is moulding itself.
“Of course, Maeterlinck, the mystic and
really a Teuton, is Appreciated in Ger-
many. And we read the gay, frivolous, de-
lightful writers of France as you do. We
admire and copy British fashious and British
manners; but only two of their recent
authors are admired —Oscar Wilde and
Bernard Shaw. Meredith is known ; Wells,
too; but modern English literature is not an
influence in Germany. The Americans —
Walt Whitman, Emerson, Poe and Mark
Twain —stand higher. I am sorry that it
is so, as I like the British ever so much
better than Americans; but certainly most
of the present British writers seem dumb
and blind in obedience to convention, and
leave out a large part of life. They write
about things which do not matter. Aus-
tralia is a freer country, and there is a
likelihood of writers springing up here who
will interpret life with the force of Whit-
man or the humor of Twain.”
Some French Books
Charles Baudelaire intime, by Nadar (A.
Blaizot, fr. 15). This slender volume
gathers the faint memories of a friend of the
poet during his later years. Writing at a
distance of 50 years from that period, he
can add but little to the pious industry of the
Ci-epet, father and son ; a few anecdotes, frag-
ments and letters, mostly of slight import-
ance, and three portraits. One undelivered
letter (Oct., 1863), introducing Nadar to
Swinburne, thanks' the English poet for his
defence of the Fleurs du mal ( Spectator,
Sept., 1862), and concludes: “I am not such
a moralist as you kindly pretend to think. I
simply believe, as doubtless do you, that
every poem, every real work of art natur-
ally and inevitably suggests-a moral; that is
a matter for the reader. But I have a de-
cided aversion to the exclusively moral pur-
pose in a poem.” There is also a letter of
the same date to Whistler, praising his
etchings, two letters of Meryon, a skit on
Songeon, afterwards Senator, and this frag-
ment of a poem in prose: “J’habite pour
toujours un bhtiment qui va crouler, un
batiment travailH par une maladie secrhte. —
Je calcule en moi-mexne, pour m’amuser, si
une si prodigieuse masse de pierres, de
marbres, de statues, demurs qui vont se
clxoquer reciproquement, seront trfes souilles
par cette multitude de cervelles, de chairs
huinaines et d’ossements concasses. Je vois
de si terribles clioses en reve, que je voudrais
quelquefois ne plus dormir.”
G. Cfhs and Cie. announce a limited issue
of Baudelaire, Fleurs du mal, including the
condemned pieces, with variants of all the
editions, fr. 7.50, also a reprint of a docu-
ment famous in the early history of sym-
bolism, Les deliquescences d’Adore Floupettc,
parodies by H. Beauclair and G. Vicaire, sfr.
’ ’
Fermina Marques, by Valery Larbaud
(Fasquelle, fr. 3.50), had a mild boom, due
probably to the attraction a school story
has even for the blase. It is a peculiar
school, that gathers its pupils, white, brown
and black, chiefly from South America.
Here are boys, who slip out o’ nights to the
cafes of Montmarte, who kiss the youthful
laundresses / and write love letters to the
girl visitors. But the chief interest of the
book is a curious intimate study of the
school’s prizeman, Joanny Leniot. Shy and
awkward, he leads a gorgeous inner life ;
his little successes are to him the conquests
of Caesar. For these he rejects vain de-
lights, “Paris et toutes Ses nuits pleines de
peches, des peches si belles et si teri-ihles,
qu'on n’ose pas les imaginer”; he knows
that, like Caesar, it is his destiny to be ad-
mired by men and loved by women, yet
craV.ps a present sign, a “bonne fortune,” to
punish the sex and round the glory of his
last year as “dux.” Into the life of the
school entex-s Fermina Marquez, the pretty
sister of one of the pupils. Joanny lays his
fell plans, but, like his hero, has to record
one failure —“F.M., hoc unurn ad pristinam
fortunam Caesan defuit.”
Most -writers on aesthetics begin with
theories of Art and Beauty, and end in
vagueness, Leon Paschal, who is concerned
only with literature ( Nouvelle Esthestique,
Mercure de France, fr. 7.50), asks “What
is genius? What are its modes of creation?”
and leaves the reader to deduce the nature
of the works of genius, from the results of
his inquiry. He owes something to Goethe
and Taine tbut, unlike them, stresses the in-
dividual rather than the school), to Ste.
Beuve hnd Guyau, but most to the Corres-
pondance of Flaubei’t, which is to his sub-
ject what the life of a saint is to sanctity;
the fervent preacher of the impersonal ih
art supplies the pillars and roof of a system,
which regards the artist as translating his
. . .10. ‘ a
personality by the medium of a literary
form, all else being not creative but imita-
tive. His answer to the first question is
that the psychology of genius is normal
psychology, and the average man is the
genius stunted.
The book is long, but for its subject easy
reading. Paschal gathers some valuable
material, clears away much critical lumber
and defines several sorely nnsused terms’
-thus of imagination he writes: “Ima°ina-
tion, the so-called ‘creative pcr\ver and master
faculty’ of genius, is really a change of per-
sonality. ... A real work of art is in the
full force of the term, a document of general
psychology, which all the faculties have
united to accomplish. It is the projection
of the momentary personality of the author.
It is an ego expressed in its integrity
through the medium* of a work of art, and
in the ego all the activities of the soul are
joined.”
Prefixed to his own constructive work is
a criticism of previous theory—Schiller,
Groos and Lombroso (less for his value
than on account of his popularity) ; and
there are brief chapters on Art and Society,
Art and Morality; from the latter: “From
the point of view of art, there is no differ-
ence between the romancer, who puts can-
tharides in his ink, to tickle a certain type
of reader, and one who dilutes his with holy
water, to conciliate the right-thinking re-
viewer ; once and for all, sincerity is the only
test.”—V.V.V.
There is a pleasant view of family life
in England and an interesting contrast of
the JFrench and English people in The Un-
known Isle, by Pierre de Coulevain
(Dymoek’s). In the form of a diary a
French girl relates (ter experiences in a
middle-class English home, and repeats
many of her convei-sations. A thread of
story runs through the book upon which are
hung many bright remarks and' some wise
ones.
“England is the anthill and France the
beehive. With the ants there is grain for
food, strength admirably canalized, stern,
gigantic work, the aim and object of which
is extension and wealth. Theirs is mascu-
line triumph. With the bees there is the
hive which kills kings and queens, then
wings, light, blue sky, flowers, honey, varied
and fitful work an over-heated atmosphere.
Theirs is feminine triumph.”
“It seems to me that the English have
numbers and the French quality.”
“A ballad by Richepin, entitled La Glu ,
sums up for us the soul of the French
woman. La Glu asks her lover, who is
poor, for his mother’s heart to give to her
dog. He kills his mother, takes her heart
and hurries with it to the woman, but she
no longer loves him. In his haste he falls
down, the_ heart falls to the ground. In a
tearful voice the heart says: “My poor boy,
are you hurt?” ... This will give an idea
of what the French woman really is—the
woman who is supposed to be always light
and frivolous and faithless to her husband.”
Alfred Buchanan’s When Day Begins
(Ouseley, per Robertson and Co.) is a itovel
which begins with the Mount Kembla disas-
ter, froin which Henry Mordaunt emerges a
hero,' and ends with his court-martial and
execution in S’Africa. The name is a thin
disguise for that of Mot-ant, but, probably,
it is in the end alone that the fictional char-
acter is identical with the x-eal. Buchanan
makes Mordaunt a. masterful man, bitter,
ambitious, and bent on establishing a social-
istic colony in Australia. There are the
makings of a pretty tragedy when he en-
counters in love the man who had wronged
him most but the reader cannot accept the
motives for some of the actions, especially
the transfer of nearly all the characters to
S’Africa. The writing is good enough to
deserve a better plot.
E. J. Brady’s River Rovers, which ran
through The Lone Hand some time ago, will
shortly be published in book form at 3s. 6d.
It is an illustrated and picturesquely writ-
ten account of a trip in a motor-boat along
the whole course of the Murray, and, like
Bean’s On the Wool Track, it pi-esents some
of the most interesting phase's of Australian
life which are hardly known to the dwellers
in our cities.
“Some of my friends have been good
enough to ask me to publish these verses,
and I do so at their request.” So says C.
L. Andi ; ews, 8.A., LL.B., etc., in the preface
to a volume called Poems (Ilai-ston, Part-
ridge and Co., Melb.), which may interest
the friends but hardly anyone else.
The first number of The Technical Gazette
of N.S.W., edited by C. A. Sussmilch and an
advisory committee, is a creditable pro-
duction. All the work, except the linotyp-
ing and binding, has been done at the Syd-
ney Tech. The reproductions of students’
work are good, and the articles are instruc-
tive and newsy. It is intended to issue the
Gazette each term to students free of cost.
Hodder and Stroughton, the well-known
London publishers, offer a prize of £lOOO
for the best novel received by them before
the Ist January next.i


X
n
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ 18 DAYS SALE
NEARING
THE END.
Send for The Sale Catalogue
POST FREE ON REQUEST.
lI6J ‘6l »sn?ny ‘topjnjes
: Ava XSVI
Men’s Boots 8 Shoes.
Usual Reduced
„„ _ . Price.
80 prs. Box Calf Derby Boots;
GlacS Kid Lace-ups, welted,
sizes s’s to 10’s; Willow Lace-
ups, sizes 6’s, B’s, f)’s; Patent
Derby Boots, sizes 6’s, 7’s, B’s,
9’s; Patent Button Boots, sizes
s’s to 10’s .. .. . . 15/6
100 prs. Horse Hide Balmorals, stout
welted soles, self neatly-punched
toecaps, good broad heels, on
3 shapes—No. 1 a good Medium
Toe, No. 2 a Full Round Toe,
No. 3 a Square Toe for easy
wear, sizes s’s to 10’s . i 12/6
288 prs. Box Calf Balmorals, stout
welted soles, whole golosh .. 13/6
50 prs. Glacg Lace-ups, welted soles,
sizes s’s, 6’s, 7’s; Patent Lace-
ups, welted, 10’s; Tan Willow
Lace-ups, 9’s and 10’s; Tan
Glace Button Boots, size 10’s;
Box Calf Lace-ups, sizes s’s to
9’s 13/9
228 prs. Glac6 Lace-ups, welted soles,
sizes s’s to ll’s . . . . 12/6
50 prs. Glace Lace or Button Boots,
sizes 7’s to 10’s; Glace Lace-
ups, welts, sizes 6’s and 7’s,
Glace Button Boots, Patent
caps, sizes 7’s, 9’s, 10’s . . 19/-
170 prs. Tweed and Glace Lace-ups,
sizes s’s to 10’s; Tan Willow
and Tan Glace Lace-ups, sizes
s’s to ll’s; Patent Button
Boots; Tan Willow Calf
Derby Lace-ups, sizes s’s, B’s,
9’S, 10’s 10/9
90 prs. Glac6 Kid Box Calf Lace-
ups or Button Boots, sizes s’s
to ll’s; Calf, elastic sides,
sewn, square toes, sizes 6’s, 7’s,
B’s, 10’s 12/9
144 prs. Glace Kid Lace-ups for el-
derly gents, fair stitched, wide
toes, plain fronts, all sizes.. 11/9
50 prs. Bovine Calf Lace-ups, wel-
ted, sizes s’s to 10’s; Tan
Willow Lace-ups, sizes s’s to
10’s .. 13/6
50 prs. Glace or Box Calf Lace-
ups, self or patent toe caps;
Glace Button Boots, patent toe
caps, sizes 6’s to 10’s . . 8/9
120 prs. Tweed Balmorals, plain;
Glace Balmorals, medium toes,
sizes s’s to 10’s .. .. 9/6
80 prs. Glace Kid and Box Calf
Lace-ups; Tweed Lace-ups,
pegged soles, sizes s’s to 10’s 6/11
50 prs. Tweed Cossacks, pegged
soles, all leather, sizes s’s to
10’s . . . . . . .. 5/9
100 prs. Felt Slippers, felt and Lea-
ther soles, easy fitting, all sizes 3/6
200 prs. Fancy Carpet Slippers, lea-
ther soles, sewn, all sizes—
Usual Price, 1/9; During Sale, 1/5
PLUMS IN PIPES.
Usual Reduced
Price. to
30 doz. Briar Pipes, vulcanite mouth-
piece, assorted shapes .. each -/8 -/6
15 doz. Briar Pipes, vulcanite mouth-
piece, assorted shapes .. each -/9 -/8
20 doz. Briar Pipes, vulcanite mouth-
piece, assorted shapes . . each 1/- -/10
6 doz. Briar Pipes, Captain Warren
shape, with compressed meer-
schaum screw in bowl, vulcanite
mouthpiece .. .. each 1/- -7,10
9 doz. Briar Pipes, Captain Warren
shape, with compressed meer-
schaum screw in bowl, vulcanite
mouthpiece .. .. each 1/9 1/3
8 doz. Briar Pipes, vulcanite mouth-
piece, Cavalier shape, with
nicotine receiver .. each 1/- -/10
10 doz. Jackson’s Patent Asbestos
Pipes, vulcanite mouthpiece,
straight and bent shapes each 1/3 1/-
12 doz. C.M. Briar Pipes, vulcanite
mouthpiece, silver band, as-
sorted shapes . . .. each 2/3 1/9
25 doz. A.H. & S. Briar Pipes, vul-
canite mouthpiece, silver band,
assorted shapes . . .. each 2/6 2/3
25 doz. A.H. &S. Special Briar
Pipes, hand-cut vulcanite mouth-
pieces, silver band, assorted
shapes, London made .. each 3/9 3/3
50 doz. Triumph Briar Pipes, Ist
grade, hand-cut vulcanite mouth-
piece, silver band, London
made . . . . . . each 5/6 5/-
6 doz. Briar Pipes, in cases, am-
beroid mouthpiece, straight
shape only . . . . each 1/3 1/-
12 doz. Briar Pipes, in cases, am-
beroid mouthpiece, engraved rims
and bands, assorted shapes, each 3/3 2/9
20 doz. Truimph Briar Pipes, in
plush-lined cases, vulcanite
mouthpiece, silver band, as-
sorted shapes . . . . each 5/6 5/-
1* doz. A.O.C. Pipe Companions, in
plush-lined case, 2 pipes, silver
bands, 1 each - amber and vu 1 -
, eanite mouthpiece, straight and
block shape .. .. each 12/6 11/-
28 Real Meerschaum Pipes, in plush-
lined cases, amber mouthpiece,
engraved silver rim and band,
straight shape . . .. each 11/- 9/6
16 Real Meerschaum Pipes, in plush-
lined cases, amber mouthpiece,
engraved silver rim, small block
shape .. •• •• each 10/6 11/-
to
13/6
10/9
11/9
11/9
11/9
15/9
8/11
10/6
S/ll
11/6
6/11
7/9
5/3
4/11
2/11
MEN’S SAC SUITS.
FIRST-CLASS TRIMMINGS.
OUR OWN MAKE THROUGHOUT.
COAT —Single-breasted, Round or Square Out, with
padded shoulders, buttoned cuffs, stitched edges,
can be had with vent in back or plain back as
desired.
VEST—Single-breasted, with or without collar.
TROUSERS —Side or cross pockets, plain' or raised
seams.
MEN’S TWEED SUITS.
Usual Reduced
Price.. to
124 Fancy Tweed, sizes 3 to 7 .. 27/6 22/6
180 Cheviot Tweed, sizes 3 to 7, 54
to 7h 54 to 74 .. .. 32/6 25/-
104 Hairline Tweed, sizes 3 to 7, ‘SL
to 7j,i 4J to 5{ . . ... 32/6 25/-
111 Sergerette, sizes 3 to 7, 44 to
64, 44 to 7J 37/6 30/-
29 Dark Stripe Tweed, sizes 64,
74 42/-* 32/6
46 Sergerette, sizes 3 to 7 . . 45/i 35/-
69 Fancy Tweed, sizes 4 to 6 . . 45/- 35/-
151 Fancy Tweed, sizes 3 to 7 . . 45/- 35/-
93 Fancy Worsted, sizes 4 to 7.. 47/6 37/6
84 Fancy Stripe and Check Tweed,
sizes 4 to 7 . . . . . . 50/- 407-
157 Fancy Worsteds, sizes 3 to 7 . . 55/- 45/-
MEN’S SERGE
SINGLE-BREASTED SAC SUITS.
48 Black Vicuna and Black Wor-
Guns 8 Ammunition.
j 3 I. Hollis & Sons’ D.8.8.L. Hammerless Guns, 12-
gauge, Damascus Barrels, proved for all nitro
1 powders, Greener Cross Bolt, Anson and Dee-
’s fey action, with chequered Deeley-Edge Fore-
■ end Fastener, good walnut stock, left barrel
choke, neat scroll engraving. Usual Price,
£ll 17s. 6d ; Reduced ,to £lO.
3 I. Hollis & Sons’ D.8.8.U Special Pigeon Guns,
12-gauge, Damascus Barrels, chambered tor
2 Jin. cases, both barrels choke, bar locks, per-
cussion fence, hammers below line of Sl jfnt,
neatly engraved. Usual Price, £lO 2s. 6d. ;
Reduced to £9. _
2 I. Hollis & Sons’ D.8.8.L. Hammerless Guns,
12-gauge, side lock action, automatic safety-
bolt, Damascus Barrels, left choke b ° r #’
Greener Cross Bolt, half pistol hand stock,
Deeley-Edge Fore-end Fastener; neatly cm
graved., Usual Price, £9 9s. ; Reduced to
£8 15s
2 Remington D.8.8.L. Hammerless Guns, 12-
gauge, Damascus Barrels, extended rib, pistol
grip, walnut stock, vulcanite heel plate, both
barrels choke. Usual Price, £8 10s.; Reduced
to £7 ss.
56 sets Ideal Reloaders, 44 calibre. Usual Price
Bs. 9d. per set; Reduced to 7s. 9d.
7 sets Ideal Reloaders, 38 calibre, S. & W. Re-
volvers. Usual Price, 7s. 6d. per set, Re-
-20 set'rEureka Reloaders, 12-gauge. Usual Price,
4s 6d ner set; Reduced to 4s.
2900 Repeater Cartridges, 12-gauge, Schuttz Powder,
1,2, 3, 8-shot. Usual Price, 11s. 9d. per 100 ,
650 Baflistite Cartridges, 12-gauge, 2i cases S-shot.
Usual Price, 12s. 6d. per 100 , Reduced t
50 Ballistite Cartridges, 12-gau?e,, 2| ,
shot. Usual Price, 13s. 6d. per 100. Reduced
4500
5000 ?r
5500 p C^B» 4 tol» UBUa
3000 Shotted Caps, No. 2. Usual Price, 2s. 3d. per
100 ; Reduced to Is. Bd.
Vacuum Flasks Reduced.
The VACUUM FLASKS are absolutely reliable, in perfect order, 1
and will keep their contents hot or cold for 24 hours withou
chemicals, without trouble, and always ready for use.
These flasks are invaluable to travellers, motorists and sportsmen, useful home,
J : iw linniHa nr ice-cold drinks are always obtainable.
Enamelled Metal Casing, with Aluminium Top and
Drinking Cup
Imitation Leather Casing, with Aluminium Top and
Drifiking Cup -•
Enamelled Metal Casing, with Nickel Top and Bottom,
and Drinking Cup ■■■
Imitation Leather Casing, with Nickel Top and Bottom
and Drinking Cup
PERFECT VACUUM PICNIC JARS.
The Perfect Vacuum Picnic Jars will hold a Dinner for several persons, and are equally
suitable for all Foods and Beverages. They are UNRIVALLED with regard to msidatiomof
heat and cold. The screwed cover ensures the vessel remaining hermetically closed ™ whatever
position it may be placed, or however it may be shaken, whilst allowing the vessel toteopened
or closed without difficulty. IJN ' H
Enamelled Metal Casing, with Nickel Top and Bottom, and
Drinking Cup ... •
Imitation Leather Casing, with Nickel Top and Bottom, and
Drinking Cup
Leather Casing, with Nickel Top and Bottom, and Drinking
Cup ... , :.. | -
All Nickel
Usual
Price
23/6
25/6
QUARTS.
Reduced
to
25/- ■
26/6
30/- ;
32/6
The Perfect Vacuum Round Form Jugs are unequalled in regard to insmauun ui
Heat and Cold. The jug is closed by means of a cork plug, fitted with elegrant metal mou
and as the cork is not pierced, no heat can escape.
" The Perfect Vacuum Straight Porm Jugs combine a modern, artistic form with
nractical advantages which stand absolutely unrivalled. The wide opening admits of solid food
-as Meat Vegetables, Ice and Fruit—being put in and taken out in the most convenient
manner. The fug is" also excellently suited for keeping Tea and Coffee hot, as well as Iced
Drinks, Lemonade, Wine, etc. ...
Perfect Vacuum Round Form Jugs.
PINTS. QUARTS.
Usual Reduc- Usual Reduc-
Price ed to Price ed to
Nickel plated ... 25/6 21/- 37/6 30/-
Silverplated, polished 4.3/- 35/- 52/6 40/-
Perfect Vacuum Straight Form Jugs.
1-QUART. 2-QUARTS.
Usual Reduced Usual Reduced
Price to Price to
Nick el plated ... 38/6
Silverplated ... 67/6
30/- 51/6 42/6
52/6 90/- 70/-
THE BALANCE Cream Separator.
REDUCED DURING THE SALE ONLY.
. fAr f „ rrnpr e caterers confectioners, tea-room proprietors and others/ to purchase an up-to
A„ oPPjrtf Ss| increase W ,»«««y o< butter by 10 percent
No. of Separator .. 48 39 48 55 SO 100 galls.
Separation per hour .. £3/ “ /6 £7H . £9/2/6 £ll/10/- £l4/15/= £2O/10/-each.
Notk. Duplicate parts can always be supplied. Instruction Book posted free on application.
MEN’S MERCERY.
Usual' Reduced
Price. Ho
65 doz. Faniiy Striped Zephyr Shirts,
dressed Huffs and bands
75 doz. Fancy Striped Zephyr Shirts,
dressed .buffs and bands
68 doz. Fancy Striped Zephyr Shirts,
dressed cuffs and bands
25 doz. Fancy Striped Zephyr Shirts,
dressed cuffs and' bands
35 doz. Fancy Striped Zephyr Shirts,
~ .. . pressed cuffs, and.bands
36, dpz. Fancy Striped Zephyr Shirts,
dressed cuffs and- bands • . .
40 doz. Fancy Striped,Zephyr- Shirts,
~ dressed i cuffs and bands
25 doz.. White.,Self; Stripe Zephyr
Shirts, linen cuffs and band. .
50 doz. White Dressed Shirts, linen
front and cuffs
60 doz. White .Dressed Shirts, best
linen fronts and cuffs
35 doz. White Dressed Shirts, best
linen 1 front and cuffs . . ...
40 doz. White Dressed Shirts, W.M.
& Co -
175 doz. White Undressed Shirts, long
front
160 doz. White Undressed Shirts, best
linen front and cuffs
130'doz. White Undressed Shirts, short,
front, button at back
25 doz. White Undressed Shirts, open
in front .... ...
200 doz. Strong Harvard Shirts, col-
lar and pocket
150 doz. Strong Harvard Shirts, col-
lar and pocket . .
ISO doz. Strong Harvard Shirts, co.l-'
' - lar and pocket, 6in. double back
175 doz. Strong Bolton Shirts, collar
and pocket, 6in. double back. .
160 doz. Strong Oxford Shirts
120 doz. Strong Drill Shirts, Blue
Ground, with White or Red
stripe
75 doz. Strong Flannelette Shirts,
collar and pocket
40 doz. Fancy Ceylon Shirts, collar
and pocket or bands
25 doz. Fancy Crimean Shirts, col-
lar and pocket or bands
75 doz. White Matt Tennis Shirts,
collar and pocket or bands . -
80 doz. White Mercerised Matt Ten-
nis .-Shirts, collar, and pocket . .
150 doz.‘White Mercerised Shirts, col-
i lar arid pocket . .
80 doz. White Mercerised , Shirts,
collar and i pocket
35 doz. White Matt Shirts, collar
and pocket
18 doz. Balbriggan Undershirts; half
sleeves, 34 and' 36in.
6,doz. Balbriggan Undershirts, half
sleeves, 42in.
25 doz. Red Drab Merino Under-
shirts, half sleeves . .
35 doz. -Natural Merino Undershirts,
half sleeves ..
15 doz. Colored Merino Undershirts,
half sleeves, 34 and 36in.
6 doz. Colored Merino Undershirts,
half sleeves, 40in.
25 doz. Natural Wool and Cotton
Undershirts, half sleeves
15 doz. Natural Wool Jason Under-
shirts, half sleeves, 34 and 36in.
5 doz. Natural Wool Jason Under-
shirts, half sleeves, 40in.
15 doz. Natural Wool Jason Under-
shirts, half sleeves, 34 & 36in.
5 doz. Natural Wool Jason Under-
shirts, half sleeves, 40in.
6 doz. Natural Wool Pesco Under-
shirts, half sleeves, 34in.
12 doz. Natural Wool Pesco Under-
shirts, half sleeves, 36in.
25 doz. Natural Wool WOLSEY Un-
dershirts, medium weights, 34,
36in. . . - • • •
5 doz. Natural Wool WOLSEY Un-
dershirts, medium weights, 40in.
15 doz. Natural Wool and Cotton,
double-breasted, long sleeves. .
15 doz. Natural Wool Shirts, bache-
lor collars, closed front
18 doz. Red Drab Merino Under-
pants
25 doz. Natural Merino Underpants,
34 and 36in.
6 doz. Natural Merino Underpants,
40in. . . • •
30 doz. Natural Wool and Cotton
Underpants . . ....
5 doz. Natural Wool Pesco Under-
pants, 34in.
10 doz. Natural Wool Pesco Under-
pants, 36in.
5 doz. Natural Wool Pesco Under-
pants, 38in. . . . •
4 doz. Natural Wool Pesco Under-
pants, 40in.
THE SO-EZ VACUUM
CLEANER.
Hygienic,- Simple Effective, Easily Operated—no
skilled labor required. - For ©leaning Carpets
without being taken up; removes dust from Cur-
tains and Upholstery. Made of .Oxidised Steel;
handsome in appearance; a boon to the house-
wife. Usual price, 28/6; Reduced to 22/6
ANTHONY HORDERN &
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace E-mporium,
BricKneld Hill*
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
■jyr
=9.
m
m.
wjm
“«f§3sa@‘i
t
mm
mm\
YOU all know the “ man who does the
tricks” at the party—don’t you?
Makes everybody laugh, puzzles and tricks
them, and they can’t tell how he does it.
YOU can be as clever and funny as he by
the use of our Tricks, Novelties and Magic Surprises. Very simple if you follow
the instructions with each
Write for Free Catalogue of Makers
of Mirth and Mystery.
The Wonderful Gyroscope and
Mono-rail Top.
Perfect demonstration of the railroad of
the future. This marvellous top defies
the laws of gravity and equilibrium.
Spins in any position—on top of finger,
end of nose, edge of tumbler, etc. Baffles
Science, delights children, astounds
adults. The more you spin it, the more
it will puzzle you.
Post Free 1/3, or Larger Size, 2/3.
VT 111 ff
£3
a s » s a*
Chinese Ring Bar Puzzle.
Endless amusement. The idea is to
remove the handle from the rings. Looks
so simple, yet puzzles them all till they
know hpw. Well made of solid polished
brass. Fits vest pocket. Write for it
to-day, enclosing stamps for amount.
1/- Post Free.
The Wonderful Plate-Lifter.
Will make your friends’ plates and cups dance quite
unexpectedly as they sit at meals. No
one can see the cause ; works quite im-
perceptibly from the other end of the
table. Shrieks of laughter. 1/- post free.
D
The Wizard Fortune-
Telling Cards.
Endless interest. Lends
a new charm to pre-
dicting fortune. Sim-
ple to use.
1/9 Post Free.
Wondrous Disappearing
Handkerchief Trick.
This handkerchief makes anything
disappear. Very effective.
1/3 Post Free.
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
(H. L. HUTCHINSON, LTD.)
710 GEORGE STREET,
111 KING STREET,
25-27 OXFORD STREET,
SYDNEY.
COLDS
SANACINE prevents the wasting and tearing of the Tissues that occurs in violent colds,
clears away the congested phlegm, and speedily allays irritation and inflammation of the
respiratory organs, and strengthens the linings of the throat and nose. Colds, Influenza,
Lung Weakness, Head and Chest Colds, throat weakness and more virulent forms
of colds immediately yield to the vigorous curative action of Sanacine. A few doses
taken in the early stages diminish the severity of an attack, and a rapid cure is assured.
h
Sanacfne benefits
Russian Royal Family
A Court Official writes: “Sanacine was introduced
to the Russian Imperial Family, and they have found
great benefit from using it."
ĥ
SANACINE
NATURE’S LUNG HEALER
An Invaluable Remedy for
COUGHS
COLDS
ASTHMA
BRONCHITIS
CATARRH
INFLUENZA
CONGESTION
HOARSENESS
HUSKINESS
SORE THROAT
WHOOPINO COUGH
CHEST WEAKNESS
and all Disorders of the Lungs, Chest, and Throat.
Price, in Gt Britain: Liquid and Tablet, 1/1J and 2/9. Sold by all Chemist,. Storey Austria.
ProprietorsASHTON & I’AKSONS, LIMITED. LONDON. EC,. ENGLAND
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security ot Freehold or Leasehold
City or Suburban Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
Of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand ipF"" AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Dirkctors —The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman : Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman : Benjamin
Short Esq. : The Hon. James Burns. M.L.C. : The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.; The Hon. F.E. Winchcombe, M.L.C.;
Adrian Knox, Esq., K.C. General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece. F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. H. W. APPERLY, Secretaiy.
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
With her limitless potentialities, still in the process of initial development, Queensland
otters a field of unbounded scope to the investor, the scientist, the tourist, the prospective
settler and to the honest worker.
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
T. C. TROEDSON, Director.
Branch Office: 116 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W. A. MESTON, Local Director.
BILIOUS SUBJECTS
are generally victims of Constipation, that root evil of so many
terrible afflictions ; but they are “ bilious subjects” no longer when
they adopt the famous Cockle’s Antibilious Pills as the standing
household remedy, now in the
Second Century of World-Wide Renown.
Cockle’s Pills, which doctors of six generations have taught the world
to use and esteem, have no harsh, coercive action on the sluggish organs;
they gently stimulate, soothingly strengthen and encourage, the natural
organic functions, at the same time thoroughly cleansing the system and
purifying the vital fluid. There is nothing to equal Cockle’s Pills for
this perfect cleansing, reinvigorating, purifying combination of results.
It is marvellous.
Will Andrape »« BOOKS.
ANDRADE’S
MINSTREL SHOW,
or Burnt Cork
Comicalities.
A Splendid Collec-
tion of Comic Songs,
Jokes, Conundrums,
Stump Speeches,
Monologues, Dia-
logues, Farces, Inter-
ludes and After-
pieces for Minstrel
Entertainments.
Post Free,
1/2.
Art of Boxing and Self-Defence, 1/2 ; Gold Hunter’s Adventures in Aus-
tralia, 1/9 ; Complete Book of Love Letters, 1/; How to Woo and Win, 1/1;
Astrology Made Easy, 1/1; Money-Making Secrets, 1/1; Minstrel Show, 1/1;
Eight Popular Farces, 1/1; Sixteen Amusing Farces, 1/1 ; Thirteen One-Act
Farces, 1/1; Twenty Humorous Dialogues, 1/1; Home Amusements, 1/1;
“ How Old Mose Counted the Eggs ” and 116 Other Humorous Recitations,
1/1 ; Famous Dramatic Recitations, 1/1 ; “ How Sockery Set a Hen ” and
other Comic Recitations, 1/1; Famous Dialect Recitations, 1/1; 1401 Conun-
drums and Riddles, 1/1; Art of Ventriloquism, 1/1 ; Hypnotism, Mesmerism
and Clairvoyance, 1/1 ; Popular Horse and Cattle Doctor, 1/1 ; How to Teach
Animal Tricks, 1/1; What Young People Should Know, Confidential Talks,
1/1; Dr. Faulkner’s Original Book of Nature, the only genuine and complete
edition, 3/6, posted 3/9 ; New Tricks with Cards, 1/ ; House Painting, Paper-
hanging, Whitewashing, etc., 1/2; 3000 Priceless Secrets, 1/8; Irish Jokes
and Witty Sayings, 9d, ; Complete Letter Writer for Ladies and Gentlemen,
1/; Dancing Without an Instructor, 1/; Lover’s Guide to Courtship and
Marriage, 1/; Bernard Macfadden’s Physical Trailing, 2/9; Macfadden’s
Building of Vital Power, 5/4 ; Macfadden’s Superb Virility of Manhood, 5/4;
Macfadden’s Sweethearts for Lives, 5/4 ; Australian Billiard Champion Gray’s
D® - AND ANY BOOK
YOU WANT.
Mention The Bulletin.
Book on Billiards, 1/5 ; Wrestling Instructor,
with 60 Photographic Illustrations, 1/9; Bag
Punching, 10d. ; All Steele Rudd’s Aus-
tralian Books, 1/1 ; Road Map of Victoria,
1/1.
Above prices include postage to any address. Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne.
Miss
Amy
Willard,
who gives this
CLEMENTS
testimony,
TONIC
m
is well known to Sydney and Melbourne audiences as one of the
leads of the Willoughby Comedy Co. (Meynell & Gunn’s attrac=
tions). She writes to ailing women thus
“CLEHENTS TONIC LTD.
“On account of Clements Tonic being used largely by the theatrical
as well as other professions, and through its being highly recommended
to me by one of the leading actors upon the Australian stage, I secured
and used it for several weeks. I was more than gratified, as the result
was a general improvement in soundness of nerve, natural and keen
appetite, sweet refreshing sleep, which was all the more welcome because,
often through continuous study, I suffered from insomnia and broken rest.
“To women, especially those weak-nerved, run-down in health,
anaemic, with poor appetite and gene al decline of physical strength, I
consider Clements Tonic a valuable medicine, for it gives appetite and
natural sleep, and is creative of sound and permanent health.
“(Signed) AMY WILLARD.”
The testimony above is simply a message to women in ill-health that Clements Tonic is a reliever f n 1
the ills from which they suffer. If used periodically, it keeps the system in order and makes Sick or
Headache Insomnia or Broken Best, Poor Appetite, Weakness, Morbidness, Biliousness, produces
Constipation things of the past. This is gratifying, for who does not weary of the P* " S, thl
melancholy the suffering that creates despair—often penalties of neglect of natural needs of th y
refusal to keep the stomach healthy, the nerves strong, the heart sound, and the blood pure■ ig
this unquestionably splendid medicine. The medicine that gives health, gives life-arid that
dements Tonic. Get it, and get well. Every household should have it.
All Chemists and Stores sell it in the Commonwealth.


A Tonic Free from
Alcohol
Are you pale, weak, easily tired,
and do you lack nerve power?
Ask your doctor if Ayer’s Sar-
saparilla would not be good for
you. He knows, and will ad-
vise you wisely. Not a drop of
alcohol in this medicine. ft
puts red corpuscles into the
blood, gives steady, even power
to the nerves; and all without
stimulation. Make no mistake.
Take only those medicines the
best doctors endorse. Ask your
own doctor
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
Prepared by Dr. J C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass.. U. S. A.
YCHJR EYES !
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
OINTMENT.
instant
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE IT!
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-. Or by post from
Proprietors, 443 Bourke St., Melbourne.
Absolutely Pure.
The very look of
Cerebos Salt suggests
purity, and indicates
the extreme care with
which the process of
manufacture is safe-
guarded.
Cerebos
Salt
Agents —Harrison & Attwood, Sydney.
PAT§I3
X
Collison&Co.
PATENTS and TRADE MARKS
obtained in all countries.
483 Collins St., MELBOURNE.
Eagle Chambers, ADELAIDE
Write us for Inventors’ Guide. Established 1877 |
FOR ALL
BLOOD DISORDERS
GOLCRYST
Packets, 3d., 6d. and Is.
MILNERS’ SAFES
have the Largest Sale in the World.
no
■
SYDNEY : John Keep & Sons, Ltd., Clarence St.
MELBOURNE : Briscoe & Co., Ltd., Lit. Collins St.
BRISBANE : Webster & Co., Ltd., Mary St.
PERTH : McLean Bros. & Rigg.
Aus. Rep.—T. Nicholls, c/o Sydney Agents.
ħ
Grandmother Used
BONNINGTONS i
For over 45 years Bennington’s Irish Moss
has been the standard cough remedy. Grand-
mother used it, your mother uged it, and
you probably use it yourself and give it to
your children.
BONNINCTON’S IRISH MOSS.
There is no medicine like it for breaking up coughs and colds, healing inflam-
mation in the bronchial tubes and preventing serious lung troubles.
REFUSE SUBSTITUTES —get what you ask for, and ask for
Bonnington’s Irish Moss—there is no remedy “just as good,” [3
Richardson Cushion Frame, Anti-Jar Ball
Bearing: Roller Skates.
Used exclusively in all of the largest and most successful rinks in America,
and by all the Champions of the, World, fast and fancy. RICHARDSON
SKATES have held all World’s Records for 24 years. Write for Catalogue.
Tells how to open and operate Roller Rinks.
Richardson Ball-Bearing: Skate Co., 311 Michigan Street, Chicago, U.S.A.
CHICAGO
c
S'
WE are here to tell your beautiful-faced
women that faces do not attract so
readily as does figure, and we will
gladly tell any woman who writes us the
secret of how many hostesses and actresses
develop their busts and fill out the hollows of
their cheeks.
The hollow-necked, scrawny-armed and
flat-chested woman is always at a great dis-
advantage, socially, with her full-bosomed,
well-developed associates. She w'ho is most
fully-developed always monopolises the
BUST-
DEVELOPING
endearments of the opposite sex, and is a
source of envy to her ill-developed sisters.
If yvu are fiat and hollow-chested, without
bosom, and suffer from attenuation, we will tell
you, free of charge, how you may develop
your bust and figure to pleasing proportions.
Thousands of women in similar health have
accepted and followed this advice, and are to-
day, as the result, radiant in the enjoyment of
good health, a pleasing, fully-developed figure,
and a plump, well-rounded bosom.
Attenuated women who have for years suf-
fered the ravages of indigestion, constipation,
biliousness, internal functional and
various other troubles are numbered in this
category.
We surest that all lady readers who see this
article will do well to investigate the truth of these
assertions. Send 2d. stamp, and we will post you
full particulars and a Fru Sample of Treatment.
FALLIERE FLESH-FOOD CO.,
1103 ASH STREET, SYDNEY,
Rear Equitable Buildings. [lBO3
A
PERFECT
FOOD
TYPHOID & DYSENTERY
HORLICK’S MALTED MILK
is especially valuable as a diet in
Fever cases. Easily assimilated in
the weakest conditions. Whole-
some, nourishing and sustaining.
Recommended by the Medical Profession.
Of all Chemists and Stores.
SMOKERS
Can be Cured!
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a harmless
vegetable remedy that will make the
user of tobacco in any form abandon
the habit for good. It not only destroys the
craving, the desire, the appetite for tobacco,
but restores to health the entire nervous sys-
tem, and aids Nature in entirely eliminating
the Nicotine Poison from the system.
FREE TRIAL.
Send'2d. stamp and we will post you a
trial package of this grand remedy, and also
our free booklet. Trial package often effects
a cure.
Frank Ford, Blackall Plains, Queensland, on
May 14, 1911, writes“ I was a smoker from 7
years of age, and am now 73. Your Tobacco
Specific has made a new man of me.”
H. SINCLAIR & CO., Dept. G.,
Victoria Arcade, Sydney.
£157311819
at a penny a smile, the cash value
of. 3™! The Wayback Series.
ARE YOU
RUPTURED
Have you grown tired of wearing useless and
cumbersome trusses ? Do you want to obtain An
appliance that is not only comfortable to wear ;
but one THAT WILL HOLD YOUR RUPTURE UNDER
ALL CONDITIONS? Then write us, and w* Will
send you particulars and testimonials regarding
our
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE
which is something entirely new, is in fact, THE
BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE OF THE CENTURY. No
galling steel springs or chafing leather unaer-
straps. The pad is made of soft pliable rubber;
which presses gently, yet firmly on THE CORRECT
SPOT. To show what we think of the Appliance
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within the reach
of all. Can you ask for more? PERFECT EASE
AND COMFORT FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE. An
appliance suitable for men, women and children
Descriptive Pamphlet Posted Free.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
340 COLLINB 8T„ MELBOURNE, VIC.
m
JtICK
There’s Sauce for you!
Montserrat
Lime Juice Sauce suits
all tastes, and owing to its
purity, adds a zest to food,
without upsetting the most
delicate digestion. It helps
your food to feed you.
Jlik your Storekeeper for it
Guaranteed free from Preservatives.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Requiescat.
Dropping petals fringe the urn
On the dais of the dead,
Yellow-haloed candles burn
At her feet and shining head.
Gently ! Lest a footfall rob
This new stillness swathing her,
Lest a vibrant. breathing stir
While the faintest shivering sob
Of the slow bell sinks away
Into silence perfectest:
Veil her eyelids from the day,
Cross her hands upon her breast 1
Husk without a chrysalis!
(Drowned in silence die the bells)
Why should there remain but this? —
Life be left to all things else?
Even down that sunlight-arc,
Through the shutter-crevices,
Riots life that no man sees;
Here is darkness crowned with dark!
Cloak her from the commonplace,
She has striven; she shall rest;
Veil her eyelids and her face,
Fold her hands across her breast!
Looking at her, you would say
(Would you not?) that now, in jest,
She had hid her eyes away,
Crossed her hands upon her breast,
Stilled her mouth (that, like a bud
Over God’s high garden-wall
Dropped, and on her face let fall,
Seems yet ripe with running blood)
Lest it twitch, as though it were
Prisoning a laugh, and lest
That should break, betraying her—
Lay her hands across her breast!
When the shutter-shaft of light
Vanished with the dropping sun,
Just a moment since, I might,
Dreaming souls, have said that one,
Slipping up the sun-line spent,
Vanished with its vanishing—
Might have thought a brushing wing
Touched my temple as it went:
Turning swiftlier, had I
Glimpsed, perchance, some splendor-drest
Thing of fire flashing by?—
Fold her hands upon her breast!
Flowers wilt and candles fail
As did she; the Mass is said!
What shall priest and prayer avail
Her whose rest is perfected?
How shall words her stillness move?
Close the door ! Perchance she stands
There within, with glimmering hands
White against the dusk, above
That which once was she, that lies
At her feet, a thing apart—
Shining head and sightless eyes,
Fingers folded on her heart.
VICTORIA.
J. ALEX. ALLAN.
The Shadow-Third.
They met in the old conventional way,
And married, and that was the end
Of a little matter that touched three hearts—
A girl, a man, and his friend.
You see, when he saw her great blue eyes
The love of his life began,
And —well —it was money the woman craved,
Not flesh and blood and a man.
She married for money—her lover’s friend —
And thus it came to be
That the man went out of life one night
As a wind goes out to sea.
She did not smile nor sigh, they say,
She showed no sign of care,
But, ever since, ’twixt man and wife
There stands a vacant chair.
And if you meet them in the street,
The park, the gardens green,
They walk so far apart—you’ll note
A man might walk between.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
A Summer Wish.
I should like to pick a billow and transport it up
to where
In the shade of blooming gum-trees I could lounge
and ponder! There,
With a chunk of chilly seaweed for my pillow, and
a beer
On a square of pale-green iceberg placed conveniently
near,
I could pass the warmest Summer’s day—
Outside the smoke-room window, say,
With a bunch of recent papers and a partly-colored
clay.
Oh, my head would crown the billow where the white
foam-flowers blew,
And my body would slope gently to the wave-foot.
If I knew
That the neighbors had gone shopping, there would
be no neck-to-knee
On my cool, recumbent person —-in the shelter of the
tree
I should bounce upon my billow cool
And play the lazy Summer fool,
Enraptured as a duck is, drowsing round his weedy
pool!
No more the cry of Sarah as she seizes sister’s hair
Would dawn upon my dreaming as I lay in silence
there.
No more the yowl of Thomas would obtrude itself
upon
My tender ear-interior —the wild crab would be
gone!
No lone shark’s loathly, shining fin
Would penetrate those bounds within,
And for the warm, insistent sun I shouldn’t care a
pin!
I shouldn’t care a cattle-dam for sun or thirst or
flies,
And I could read my novel unperturbed by heathen
cries;
My beer upon the cooler ’d be at hand to kill my
thirst, ...
And make me even more content than when 1 bil-
lowed first!
Oh, could I choose a billow, now,
And hold its coolness to my brow,
The weather vanquished, I should be a better man,
I trow!
VICTORIA.
FRANK HENTY.


Combination Couch and Bed.
Size when open, 4ft. x 6ft. 7in.
CHANGED INSTANTLY.
—ttmrVtm .£-.331
CLOSED AS COUCH.
Commonwealth
Patent 12274.
m
c. •
OPEN AS DOUBLE BED.
Carinot get out of order; is
exceptionally strong and durable.
Just the thing for offices,
small rooms, or where an extra
bed is required.
Invaluable for hotels, boarding-
houses, coffee palaces, and similar
establishments.
Can be had fitted with box, to
act as linen press. Three pieces
of furniture in one.
Elegantly upholstered.
CASH PRICES:
In Cretonne, £4 10s.; in
Tapestry or American Leather,
£5 55.; in Rexine, £6 6s. With
Box, 20s. extra.
Patent Rights held by
MARCUS CLARK & Co. Ltd.
SYDNEY.
Rheumatism, Indigestion, Kidney Trouble.
May be obtained from all Chemists
and Stores, Price
Wholesale Agents : .ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney.
Or direct from the Manufacturers, Post Free on receipt of price,'
PAGE & COMPANY LIMITED, 117 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
2/6
per
Bottle.
The Goldfields Diamond Drilling Co., Ltd.,
339 Collins Street, MELBOURNE, 79 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Boulder Road, KALCOORLIE, W.A.
Diamond Drilling and Water Boring Contractors.
.. Sole Manufacturers of The Victoria Percussion Drill.. Agents for THE SULLIVAN MACHINERY
CO.’S Diamond Drills, Air Compressors, Rock, and Air Hammer Drills.
Drill Carbons and Spares for Diamond Drills Stocked. Full particulars and prices on application.
WELSBACH
Portable Electric Lighting Plants.
FOR CINEMATOGRAPH SHOWMEN, Etc.
Direct Coupled. Portable. Ready for Instant Use.
No Troublesome Batteries. 1
All Parts Running in Oil. Ball-bearing' Dynamo.
3-5 H.P. SET
:: IN USE.
h
Engine is . fitted with H.T. magneto, governor controlling throttle, ,-and
circulating _ pump; is mounted on wrought-iron . unbreakable bedplate, and
i- ' direct coupled to an E.C.C. Dynamo. •••
.cl 1 1 .
r l SEND FOR PRICE LIST.
NOTE.—House Lighting Sets in Stock.
Welsbach Light Co. of Australasia Ltd.,
302 Pitt Street, Sydney.
ENGAGEMENT AND
ĥ
ħ
h
WEDDING RINGS
I carry a very extensive showing of Engagement
and Wedding Rings in all the latest designs.
Importing as I do all Gems direct and in large
quantities, and mounting them in my own
factory, enables me to quote prices that are
considerably below those charged elsewhere.
MY ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE HAS A RING
SIZE CARD ATTACHED. Send for a Copy.
18et,. Gold, set with
2 Diamonds and
Rubies or Sapphires,
£2/10/-
All Diamonds,
£3/15/-
18ct. Gold, set with
5 Diamonds,
£ SHSI -
-2 Diamonds and 3
Rubies or Sapphires,
£4/10/.
18ct.' Gold, 2 Dia-
monds, 3'Eubies or
Sapphires, S.S/15l m
All Diamonds, &5-
18ct. Gold, set with
3 Pure Double-cut
Diamonds, £6/6/-
JOE DAVIS’ Lucky
WEDDING RINGS
have for 30 Years
been noted as the
Best Value in
Australia.
18ct. Gold Wedding
Ring, extra thick
and heavy, 30/-
Others S/6, 9/6,
12/6, 15/6, 20/-,
25/=, 40/=, 50/=
18ct. Gold, set with
10 Diamonds and 2
Rubies or Sapphires,
£7/10/-
All Diamonds, £9/10/-
ISct. Gold, set with
5 larjre Double-cut
Diamonds,
£l2/10/-
JOE DAVIS, 2«
The Money-Saving Jeweller,
Park Street, Sydney
One Door from Pitt Street.
Don’t worry, don’t
flurry, don’t fume
or fret;
Keep Cool—Smoke
an ABDULLA
CIGARETTE.
J>=
' > IK A
1
as
f' 1 •
1
m
W:
m
m.
W»I
mult
m.
««
-
Q
CARS forTHE COUNTRY
IT is essential that the motorist who has to drive over rough country
roads 1 should have a car comprising the best pf. material and
workmanship.
■You will find these in every ppe of the motors for' which we hold
the agencies—
DAIMLER, DELADNAY-BELLEVILLE,
E.N., AUSTIN.
To pastoralists who desire the most speedy and economical transport
for their wheat, wool and other produce, we can confidently recommend the
HALLEY MOTOR LORRY.
It is strongly and simply.built and has carried off awards in open competi-
tion for Accessibility, Simplicity and Freedom from Liability to Breakdown.
Call and inspect the models in stock , or write for full particulars.
DALGETY <&. CO. LTD.,
Motor Garage, 136?= 138 Phillip Street, SYDNEY.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 32.—N0. 1643.
THtmSPAYr AUGUST 10, 1911.
Prick On.
THE SUGAR WORKERS’ TROUBLES.
In order to bring the Colonial Sugar Refining Co. to reason, Commonwealth Ministers are proposing that the protective duty (£6 per ton) should he abolished.
THE SUGAR WORKER: "If you use the axe on the dam, you may perhaps smother the monster; but you certainly will smother me.
Why don’t you use it on the thing that’s crushing me?”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod,
of Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mos-
man, for The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
Ltd., at the Office of the Co., 214 George-
street North, Sydney, N. S. Wales, Aus-
tralia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES: Business, 1384 Central.
Editorial, 257 City.
'TERMFI TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Per Annum .. .. £ 1 6 0
Half-yearly .. .. .. 0 13 6
Quarterly . . .. . . 0 7 0
By sending direct to Tun Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin
posted regularly to yon every wed: for a year.
Cheques. Drafts, etc., and all Business Communica-
tions to be addressed to William Macleod, Manag-
ing Director.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the
paper (and, to an extent, themselves) by talcing
some care as to methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, ad-
vertiseyients, etc.) should in no case be addressed to
the Editor, but to the Manager. To send them to
the Editor is to invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters
to anyone by name. “The Editor, The Bulletin,” is
the proper superscription for “copy." Delay, and
even loss, is sometimes caused by addressing to per-
sons instead of officials. The person may not be
there; the official always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
f used.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” col-
umn all contributions submitted, whether in the
form of Political. Social or other Articles, Verse,
Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, arc specially accept-
able). Paragraphs, Letters or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS.
when the address is specified and stamps are en-
closed- Hut no MS. will be returned, or preserved,
unless these conditions are observed. When MS. is
forwarded without stamps for return it will be un-
derstood that the copy is to be destroyed if not ac-
ceptable. Personal applications for return of MS.
cannot receive attention. The Bulletin desires,
further, those sending MS. to distinctly understand
that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea,
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any pic-
ture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under ivhich such
artistic contributions icilt be received are those
applying to MS.
The Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on
account of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale
agents) to Victoria, West Australia, Queensland,
Tasmania and New Zealand; and on account of
Messrs. Atkinson and Co. and Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide
—at J//6 per doz. nett.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British
Australasian Office, 115 High Uolborn, London,
W.C.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town; Dawson and Soil, Capetown; The Central
News Agency, Durban, Natal; and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver
8.C.; Irvine and Forsyth, JR/l Hastings Street;
Norman, Caple and Co., Stationers.
U.S.A. —Isserlis A,, Seattle, Washington; Inter-
national News Agency, Los Angeles; Chicago News-
paper Agency, 170 Madison Street, Chicago.
Egypt.— The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port
Said.
llong' Kong.— Brewer and Co., redder Street,
Hong Kong.
Singapore. — Messrs. John Little and Co.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size
6%in. x 11/in., will be forwarded on application.
Larger sizes can be supplied if desired.
Postage Rates.
Single Copies, The Bulletin (Registered as a
Newspaper):—Throughout the Commonwealth, New
Zealand. Fiji, British New Guinea, Norfolk and Lord
Ilowe Islands, lOoz. id.; United Kingdom, All Sea
Route, 16oz. Id. — otherwise, Boz. Id., and Bioz. to
lOoz2ld; lOoz. to 120 z., 3d; elsewhere, J/oz., Id.,
and id. each additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, AUGUST 10, 1911.
THE CANKER AT THE HEART OF
LABOR IN N. S. WALES.
The Mother State is tilled with grief at the
calamitously level state of parties in the
Assembly. The trouble is, of course, that
under the rules of the grotesque Party Gov-
ernment game, to which Australia still ad-
heres, an evenly-balanced Idouse keeps the
country on the edge of a general election,
and no serious-minded working citizen cares
for general elections. When they result in
changed Ministries much of the legislative
good that has preceded them is nullified, and
the country is misgoverned till the new ad-
ministrators learn something about their
jobs. In any event they disorganise business,
and'cause weeks of time- wasting on a large
scale. While they are in progress the voter
is pestered with noise and lies, and the spec-
tacle of dishevelled persons howling discord-
antly in public places. They are the cause
of innumerable fights, cursing bouts, an
similar evidences of ill-feeling, and are an
excuse for an immense amount of eleemosy-
nSy drunkenness. No one profits from them,
barring publicans, beer-cadgers, paid can-
vassers, a P nd people of that class; and they
cost the State anything up to £oo,ooo. All
this uproar and expense must inevitably
afflict N. S. Wales soon, no matter how the
voting at Mudgee and Liverpool Plains goes,
and the horror of the situation is that even
after next general election —the second within
four months —a third and a fourth are likely
to follow at short intervals.
* * * *
The reason why—unless something wholly
unexpected soon occurs —the voting for State
Labor and State “Liberalism” is bound to
be just about as close as it was last April,
lies in the fact that many of the ideals of the
opposing parties are so nearly alike that they
attract (or repel, as the case may be) the
same sort of people. Speaking generally,
both McGowEN-ites and WADE-ites are
haunted by a fixed idea that the other States
of the Federation are predatory foes, and
that a friendly understanding is only pos-
sible with any of them when common cause
has to be made against Australia. During
the Referenda campaign life-long Laborites
fought the battle of the Trusts as strenu-
ously as any “Liberals.” They adopted this
amazing attitude in the name of State
Rights. They did not deny either that the
cost of living was leaping up month by month
owing to arbitrary rises in the prices of a
dozen Trust-owned commodities, or that the
only remedy consisted in the Federal Parlia-
ment being given power to declare a mon-
opoly for the thing it is, and to end its extor-
tions out of hand. Their point was that
the shadowy entity which is known as the
“dignity of the States” is of more import-
ance than the welfare of the people—a sen-
timent that every Anti-Laborite in the land
received with hearty cheers. Again, State
Labor appears to be almost as much the
slave of Sydney influences as State “Liber-
alism.” It is over three months since the
Decentralisation Commission handed in its
belated report. Yet no attempt has been
made to link up Riverina with Victoria, and
Jervis Ray and Port Stephens are as dead
and isolated from civilisation as ever they
were. Further, the humor-less Jingo blither
about “the Flag” (meaning the flag, not of
Australia, but of the United Kingdom) has
raged as briskly under the new regime as it
did under the old. One of the terms of the
Naval Agreement ratified the other day by
the British Government is that, henceforth,
on Australian war-vessels, the Australian
flag shall be hoisted in the place where the
Union Jack used to fly—a proper recognition
of the Commonwealth’s national status. Yet
there is not a State school, from Hungerford
to Cape Howe, which puts the national em-
blem in its proper place on festive occasions.
And, as a final illustration, in theory the
McGowen Government is opposed to borrow-
ing ; in practice it has borrowed more fran-
tically than any “Liberal” administration of
late years. In view of all these things, it
is not strange that the most unlikely people
—Anti-Socialists, Confirmed Geebungs, Em-
pire Leaguers, and such like —have been ex-
pressing much sympathy, of late, with the
politicians whom last April they reprobated
as thieves and Anarchists.
* * * #
Of course, there are things which the
Laborites are ready and willing to do which
no sane person expects to see accomplished
by “Liberalism.” And, since most of them
are urgently desired by electors of all shades
of politics, the circumstance is a help to
Labor. So long as Sydney Ferry Co. shares
shall continue to be held by influential
“Liberals,” it is as certain as death that no
“Liberal” Government will do more than
prattle soothingly about a North Shore
bridge or tunnel. Labor has no support to
lose by getting busy with the North Sydney
connection, and it has a heap of kudos to
gain. The Sydney Gas monopoly has for
decades been tearing inordinate profits
out of the Sydney public. Its charges are
a byword among those who know what
gas Costs elsewhere. A Labor Govern-
ment might be relied on to nationalise
or municipalise a flagrantly extortionate
institution of this sort, given a very little
more provocation: a “Liberal” one, never.
“Liberalism” is committed to the view that
a State coal mine is a wicked and
uneconomic proposition. It is certain,
nevertheless, that the people appreciate
now that a State which runs its own trains
is a reckless and illogical idiot if it doesn’t
also control the fuel which those trains use;
and from the burning of State coal on the
public’s railways, to the supplying of the
same to individual members of the public, is
but a step. Cheap coal can only come from
the Labor side of the Assembly, and State
brickworks and Law Reform and an intelli-
gent Industrial Bill and half a hundred
other badly-needed changes.
* * * *
The Labor party has a further pull, inas-
much as it is essentially the educated party.
Ten years ago that would have sounded para-
doxical : to-day it is a matter of cold fact.
Intellectually speaking, men like Holman,
Beeby, Griffith, Trefle and Carmichael
are immeasurably ahead of Wade, Wood,
Fitzpatrick and the rest of the brawling
“Liberal” horde. Carruthers, Ashton and
B. B. O’Conor had their bad points, but
they were mental dinosaurs by comparison
with the illiterates that have succeeded them.
There are not three men out of the dozen
favorites for the next “Liberal” Cabinet
whom a rational trader would trust to run
his business for a month. On the other hand,
as to the capacity of the Laborites, a morn-
ing daily which is troubled with no pro-
Labor bias was constrained to speak this
way (28/7/Y1)
Mr. Griffith, Mr. Flowers, and Mr. Trefle
proved themselves not only careful and capable ad-
ministrators, but men of moderation and fairness.
Mr. Beeby was another Minister who distinguished
himself by administrative ability. Indeed, against
not one of the retiring Ministers, from the good-
natured Mr. Edden to the unmanageable Mr. Niel-
sen, or from the urbane Mr. Holman to the serious-
mannered Mr. McGowen, with his honorary factotum,
Mr. Carmichael, is There left anything on the ad-
ministrative records other than what is personally
creditable to them.
The “Liberal” press has rarely had the
pleasure of talking in those terms of its own
Ministerial henchmen.
* * * *
The N.S.W. Labor party has, therefore,
a number of useful cards in its hand, and it
is troubled with no opposition worth men-
tioning. It ought to have tne State fairly
sizzling with enthusiasm on its behalf. The
mournful truth is, the State does not sizzle
worth a bottle of soda-water that has been
open for a week. In centres where there are
large majorities for Federal Laborites, the
State men —however honest and capable—
are regarded often with chilly distrust. The
phenomenon is due (1) to the fact that on
many of the bigger issues, anti-borrowing,
decentralisation, etc., the allegedly demo-
cratic party differs not at all from the
frankly reactionary party, and (2) to the
poisonous anti-Australian spirit of most of
the State Labor leaders. It is inconceivable
that there is any principle involved in the
provincialist game as it is played in this
State. What ethical considerations, for ex-
ample, justify the N.S.W. State Lighters'
continued refusal of the railway connection
with Victoria, which the Riverina settlers
need? One can only conclude that the State
Rights cry is reckoned good campaigning
business. Yet the political cemeteries are
full of corpses which prove the contrary,
and there is not a case on record where a
politician who jumped firmly on the wretched
thing has suffered for it. The general pas-
sion for State Rights is largely a daily-paper
myth; a fraud after the style of Dread-
nausea. Eighteen months ago the “Liberal”
papers shouted with extraordinary assurance
that Australia was mad to give Dread-
noughts to Britain, and would certainly ex-
terminate the politician who frustrated it.
In the midst of the clamor, Andrew Fisher
stood forth and said, in effect, that, if Aus-
tralia wanted to do a damphoolish thing like
that, he would be no party to abetting the
business. To-day there is not a reasonable
man in Australia but respects Fisher for
his level-headed patriotism. The State
Rights creed would fall as dead as Dread-
nausea if only a State Labor leader arose
with sufficient nerve and honesty to assail it.
Meanwhile, it must continue to do the
N.S.W. Labor party infinite harm. All that
its exploitation gains for Labor is a little
faint “Liberal” praise, which costs nothing,
and is worth about that much; a remark
which applies, likewise, to the pro-borrowing,
pro-Sydney policies of the McGowEN-ites.
On the other hand, the Nationalist and the
whole-liog Laborite are hopelessly discour-
aged, not to say antagonised, by these things.
And, lacking the enthusiasm of these two
sections, State Labor is a very sick indivi-
dual indeed.
BETWEEN THE DOCK AND THE
GALLOWS.
A few days ago, while the public hangman
was oiling his rope in a Westralian gaol,
Holman, Attorney-General in N. S. Wales,
was introducing a Criminal Appeal Bill
which, among many admirable features,
contained this one that is not admirable: —
Where any sentence of death has been passed or
recorded against any offender, the evidence
taken at the "trial of such offender, together with a
report from the presiding Judge, and the recommen-
dations of the jury (if any), shall be forwarded with
all practicable expedition to the Chief Justice, who
shall forthwith summon the Judges of the Court, or
any three of them, to such sentence, and report to
the Minister whether, in their opinion, such sen-
tence of death should be carried into effect, or
whether any, and if so, what lesser sentence should
be substituted therefor. The Judges so summoned
shall also consider a petition in favor of the pris-
oner which the Minister of Justice may refer to
them.
Put shortly, this proposal, if carried, would
allow the Government administering the
affairs of the country to retreat behind the
Judges and escape one of the highest and
most vital functions which they are sworn
to perform. #
A man who comes to be hanged, we are
told by a cynical writer, has achieved a
success —of a kind. He has become of such
fatal importance that it requires the supreme
exercise against him of the forces of society.
But if he has against him the conven-
tional forces of society (drawn together to a
point through the ages of the world for self-
protection), he has hitherto had a final safe-
guard, in this and other British countries,
in that there was, in the last and fatal re-
sort, an appeal to Cassar. After Courts
and juries and police had done their_ worst
with him, there was one chance of life for
him in what is known as the prerogative of
mercy, which might arrest the greasy hand
of the State executioner, and cause the rope
to be coiled away for another occasion. This
prerogative of mercy, in the dim past, was
vested in the Sovereign. As Constitutional
Government evolved, and power was trans-
ferred from the Sovereign to the people, the
prerogative passed with the power into the
hands of the people’s representatives, who
became responsible for the_ exercise of both
power and prerogative to the people. When,
therefore, in our system, the Judge’s black
cap had been put back in the Judge’s wig-
box by the Judge’s Associate, and the wretch
had been transferred from his previous
night’s lodgings to the dreadful surround-
ings of the condemned cell, with the words.
“May the Lord have mercy on your soul!”
ringing in his ears, he took with him the
hope that one last appeal was open to him—
an appeal which went over the heads of
Judges; an appeal to those who created
Judges, to the responsible Cabinet which,
theoretically, has the ear of the Sovereign
and is responsible to the real governors —
the people —for the acts of the Sovereign.
A wide gulf was bridged wnen democracy
got the mercy prerogative inlo the hands of
its own direct representatives.
* * * *
The responsibility cast upon each member
of a Cabinet, when a death sentence conies
up for review, is a terrible one. Two lead-
ing men in the public life of N. S. Wales,
Dibbs and Holman —men of diametrically
opposite temperaments—have almost broken
down in publicly describing their feelings
when deciding whether a man shall live or
die. The confession of these men, their ad-
mission of a poignant mental struggle, their
recital of the pains taken to find the right
course, shows that the tribunal to which
the condemned men appealed was one sus-
ceptible of the influence of human feelings
and amenable to human weaknesses, a .tri-
bunal which reflected the feelings and weak-
nesses of all of us—in short, a humane tri-
bunal. It is not unknown that this tribunal,
in its secret deliberations, seeks primarily
a valid reason for reprieve. At least that
has been so of recent years. It is said that
search is made into every detail of the
crime, into the whole life-history of the con-
demned, into all the surrounding circum-
stances, with a view, not to hang, but to re-
prieve. :.If this were not so, the solemn
council which decides upon mercy or no
mercy would be a brutal farce, which we
cannot suppose humane men would engage
in. This Cabinet tribunal to-day has all
that a committee of Judges would have—
and more. Behind it is the influence un-
known and unconsidered in the Judges’ room
—-Public Opinion.
* * * *
In the brief discussion of this phase of the
Criminal Appeal Bill, Wade, usually so ob-
tuse, seized upon this point and quoted
Todd, a constitutional authority, to show
that one of the ingredients in the considers
tion of the exercise of the prerogative of
mercy is, “to some extent, the popular feel
ing in the community at large.” Holman
challenged this view. He asked: “Do you
really imply that the Government should be
guided by public opinion in dealing with a
capital case?” To this the instant answer
though not given by Wade —is Yes em-
phatically Yes. Had public opinion’ been
effective in the past this State would have
been spared many butcheries. In the Mount
Rennie case, for example, public sentiment
was strongly for a reprieve, on the ground
of the nature of the trial, and an element of
doubt in the case of one prisoner. That
prisoner’s body has been mouldering for 20
years; and from the day of his scragghw
the well-informed public has believed he was
judicially murdered. And the public further
believes that the Judge who tried the case
was mainly responsible for the youth's
death. The theory of our law is that it is
better that 99 Duboscs should escape the gal-
lows than that one innocent Lesurques
should be hanged. The late Justice Win-
deyer might, under Holman’s scheme, have
sat on a committee of Judges to re-try the
case in a back room. Perhaps to-day that
feeling of judicial bruderschaft exists which
was expressed on a famous occasion by the
late Justice William Manning in the
phrase, “Stand by a brother Judge!” Is
it certain that this craft brotherhood would
not influence the brotherhood of Judges to
whom Holman would hand over the preroga-
tive of mercy?
X- * * «
This will not do. The man shivering in
the cell, with the shadow of the gallows and
the rope over him, must not be deprived of
the right of final appeal to Cassar. The
Ministry stands in the place of Cassar, and
the appeal for mercy is to Caesar, ■ not to
C/ESar’s clerk, not to a committee of
Caesar’s appointees, not a machine —and
a court of justice is generally a, machine.
The training of a lawyer, the experience of
a Judge, often makes him machine-like in
his judicial office. He sees the seamy side
of life in criminal trials ; he gets the “con-
victing mind.” All Judges do not fall in
this way, but many do. Who can deny this
who ever saw the laborious, patient, unre-
mitting labor of Judge lleydon when he was
a Crown Prosecutor, in endeavoring to secure
a conviction—all the erudition, all the sub-
tlety, all the craft of a skilled lawyer, con-
scientiously directed towards the conviction
of the man in the dock, often, it is to be
feared, because he was in the dock! Take
the mind of such a Judge as exposed in the
paper on mediaeval torture read before the
Roman Catholic conference in 1901. And
there is at least one other N. S. Wales Judge
who, on sentence day, plays with the unfor-
tunates as a cat plays with a mouse. Such
men as these may be called upon under
Holman’s scheme to exercise in a back room
the prerogative of mercy—men whose whole
traditions may be relied upon to prevent the
intrusion into their deliberations of the fac-
tors of human nature and public opinion,
which are indispensable in the exercise of the
prerogative of mercy.
* * * *
This argument does not touch the ques-
tion of capital punishment. It may be that
there are human brutes, such, for instance,
as the crafty Butler, the inhuman Deem-
ing. deaf to the call of nature; the callous
Nicholls and Lester, who took life for the
value of an old pack of clobber; the cold-
blooded Police Inspector Griffin, sneaking
upon his mates in their sleep. But the most
awful murderer of them all, _as a human
being, in the awful peril of his life, should
have a final Court of Mercy, which does not
shut out either human nature or public
opinion in the consideration of his fate. If,
after the consideration by such a tribunal,
and in such a manner, the last penalty of the
law is exacted, then we shall have no shame
resting upon the State, and no risk of judi-
cial murders like those which have shocked
the community in the past.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Martyred Democrat.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The annual report showed that steady progress had
been made. The membership of the TooraK branch
numbered 500. Public and drawing-room meetings
had been held, and the electorate had been canvassed.
—Report of the Vic. Wimmen’s League.
The main note of Liberal policy, as declared in
the platform, is that it is Federal and democratic. —
Melbourne Argus.
[Note. — This tragic recitation may be delivered
at ordinary gatherings without fee or charge; but
the right to recite it in “select” drawing-rooms ,
stock exchanges, boudoirs, bank parlors, directors'
board-rooms or Legislative Councils is stHctly re
served.]
( Begin breezily) :
In lady Lusiier's drawing-room, when
float the strains of Braiims,
While cultured caterpillars chew the fronds
of potted palms—
In Lady Rusher's drawing-room, upon a
summer’s day,
The democrats of Toorak met to pass an
hour away.
They hearkened to a long address by Grab-
bit, M.L.C.,
While Senator O’Sweatem passed around
the cakes and tea;
And all the brains and beauty of the suburb
gathered there, .
In Lady Rusher’s drawing-room —Miss lib-
well in the chair.
(With increasing interest) :
Ay, all the fair and brave were there —the
fair in fetching hats ;
The brave in pale mauve pantaloons and
shiny boots, with spats.
But, pride of all that gathering, a giant
’mid the rest,
Was Mr. Percy Puttipate, in fancy socks
and vest,
Despite his bout of brain-fag, plainly show-
ing in his eyes,
Contracted while inventing something new
in nobby ties.
He braved the ills and draughts and chills,
damp tablecloths and mats,
In Lady Lusher’s drawing-room, this
prince of Democrats.
( Resume the breeze) :
Upon a silken ottoman, sat Willie Dawd
lericii,


“ The Lowest Aim in Life.”
Tttf, following address to his constituents
was delivered by Jack London, in Social-
ism, San Francisco, recently, and is being
reprinted in a dozen places and poured
into The Bulletin :
Young Men: The lowest aim in your life is to be
a soldier. The good soldier never tries to distin-
guish right from wrong. He never thinks; never
reasons ; he only obeys. If he is ordered to fire on
his fellow-citizens, on his friends, on his neighbors,
on his relatives, he obeys without hesitation. If he
is ordered to fire down a crowded street where the
poor are clamoring for bread, he obeys, and sees the
grey hairs of age stained with red and the life-tide
gushing from the breasts of women, feeling neither
remorse nor sympathy. If he is ordered off as one
of the firmer squad to execute a hero or benefactor,
he iires without hesitation, though he knows the
bullet will pierce the noblest heart that ever beat in
human breast.
A (rood soldier is a blind, heartless soulless mur-
derous machine. He is not a man. He is not v .
a brute, for brutes onlv kill in self-defence. All
is human in him, all that is divine in him, all tliat
constitutes the man, has been sworn away when lie
took the enlistment roll. His mind, his conscience,
aye, his very soul, are in the keeping ot his othcei.
To which The Bulletin adds a few reflec-
tions :
Young Men: The highest aim in your life is to be
under the house or in the tall timber wne.i the Jap
or the Chow or the nigger arrives, and starts to waae
in. He never thinks, except when he is watching
the whirling shells among the buildings, and then
he merely thinks it won’t be long before the sacking
of the city commences. If the boss Jap or the Ma
darin Chow orders him to exterminate a white
people, root and branch, he doesn t knock oj t .t°
sider the ethics of the case; he only whirs his
awful machinery with greater enthusiasm , and „oie
and the grey hairs of age go guttering down
streets —your father’s grey hairs probably, and your
mother’s gore. And “the life-tide gushing from the
breasts of women” will only be part of the * •
When the mad, raging beast has been let loose, othe
things will happen besides blood-spilling. .
A good raging beast is not a man. He is persom
fled hell. All that is human in him, all that is divine
in him, went out of business when he decided that
your country was to be his, and that}
should be swept away in a river of bl °°< ." c ®‘
But don’t you worry. 1 ell him lie can do his w . ,
and give him the address of your family.
Anyhow, that’s the way they look at it in
Gladesville, Bedlam, San Francisco and simi-
lar institutions.
♦
Virtue's Reward-17s. 6d. per Week.
The horror of Socialistic legislation, in the
opinion of every thoughtful sweater, consists
far less in the immediate financial damage it
occasions the low-wage enthusiast than in
the hideous trade secrets it reveals to the
public; as a result of which sympathy is
alienated from Private Enterprise in huge
chunks. As an example ot the sort or tiling
that causes the cheap-labor specialist to
seethe with apprehension, the Shop Assist-
ants’ Union of Sydney used the industna
Court, the other day, to stir up the unsavory
question of the wages paid in the con ec
tionery shops. Girls in this business work
grocers’ hours —58 per week. 1 heir wages
range, nominally, from 12s. Gd. to 30s. pei
week. But the 305.-marker is so rare as not to
be worth discussing: in one grocery-cMm-
confectionery business, with -I) branches, in
Sydney, there is only one girl who earns as
much as 80s. The average wage is 17s. bd.,
and on that stipend hundreds of girls are
expected to house, feed and clothe themselves,
and keep clean and neat and sober and vir-
tuous till such time as they get too old and
plain for the job of unloading sweetstutts on
a fastidious public. One witness supplied
the B-’id with details of the way a girl
might lead a pure and useful, if not merry,
existehce on half a crown a day. He reckoned
that she could get a room for os. a week.
In this she would cook her breakfast and tea,
and do all her washing. It would require
to be near her work, so that she might walk
and save train fares. In the cause of health
she would need to allow herself one Sood
mid-day meal every day,” the cost ot tins
repast or banquet being sixpence. Ihere
would be nothing over for books, papers, or
similar luxuries. Incidentally, it was men-
tioned that these girls have to buy their own
clothes; that “if they are not tidy and smart
they are no good”; and that they are only
given a moment’s notice when their services
arc no longer required.” After perusing a
wad of sworn information along these lines,
the average decent citizen who isn t a Labor-
ite and who would be furious if anyone
accused him of being a Socialist, is apt to
readjust his attitude towards the social ques-
tion He understands the world well enough
to know that many of these girls need not
drag out joyless and ill-fed lives, bounded on
the one hand by work, and on the other by a
home, at 9d. a night, that is liable at any
moment to be burst up. The decent citizen
sees on every hand private bars and res-
taurants filled with well-to-do males; race-
courses teeming with absurdly-affluent book-
makers ; motor-cars and yachts and a thou-
sand other evidences of prosperity. _ H®
knows that, in innumerable cases, the girl in
the confectionery shop, whose most dazzling
luxury is a sixpenny dinner, has only to say
the word in order to be supplied with meals
which will cost more than her weekly
salary He knows that she may have com-
fort. cash, clothes, all the things that girl-
hood desires, for the asking. But, instead ot
taking these things, she grinds along
on 17s Gd. per week, because of a moral and
social code which she is loath to break.
Therein, for years and years, has lam tne
sweater’s opportunity; and in this country,
as in others, he has seized it with both hands.
Formerly the average citizen, being an un-
imaginative person, only saw the position as
in a glass darkly, if he glimpsed it at all.
The Industrial Courts and other manifesta-
tions of the Socialistic Menace are changing
all that. The man in the street is beginning
to ask himself such questions as: Why
should a girl’s predilection for keeping
straight give Private Enterprise the oppor-
tunity to penalise her with starvation
wages?” And he generally supplies the cor-
rect answer by immediately voting for more
“Socialism.”
A Hint to Empire Leaguers.
Minister Trefle, of N.S.W., caused a
fleeting sensation, the other day, by stating
that the American Meat Trust had begun
operations in Australia, and that shipments
of meat, belonging to the Trust, were already
on the water. The Trust’s methods are un-
changing. It starts by employing agents,
whose orders are to buy all the meat ottering
at any price, as a result of which the mde-
pendent buyer is gradually crowded out or
the business. The stockowner makes tat
profits under this system for just so long as
the buyers who are outside the Trust remain
on deck and solvent. From then onwards the
Trust fixes the price of meat. For some
time past, according to the Minister, "the
Trust has been carrying out investigations
as to the present value of the existing meat
works in N. S. Wales, and the possibility ot
buying them up.” And when a Combine worth
40 millions sterling starts on an enterprise ot
that sort the finish is not difficult to pio-
phesy. The Meat Trust already controls
America, and it lias a powerful footing in
the Argentine. These two countries, with
Australia and Maoriland, provide the world
with a big proportion of its meat. Ihe
poorer classes of Great Britain, for example,
are dependent, almost entirely, on imported
beef and mutton, home-grown meat being
scarce and proportionately expensive. So
long- as the possibility exists of any consider-
able shipment of non-Trust meat coming on
the British market, prices all round must,
comparatively speaking, rule low. Thus the
Trust might own 100,000 carcases of Argen-
tine mutton in London, and yet he prevented
from putting a fancy price on the goods by
reason of the fact that a mere 5000 carcases
of Australian or Maoriland mutton were ad-
jacent and liable to be unloaded at the wrong
moment. It is no exaggeration, therefore,
to say that for many years Australasia has
been Britain's main safeguard against the
curse of dear meat. And that is the chief
explanation of the Trust’s arrival in these
parts. The profits to be gained directly from
Australasia are paltry, and must be for years
tocome ; but the indirect benefits that the vast
Yankee vend must reap once it gets a firm
strangle-hold on the meat trade of the Com-
monwealth and M.L. are stupendous. A
market of 45 million meat-eaters will pass
automatically into its control; an entire
kingdom will come under the Trust’s sway,
and pay daily tribute to it. There is a vast
section in this hemisphere which is noisier
and more fulsome in its protestations of de-
votion to Britain than any similar section in
the United Kingdom. The local section is
great on saluting and exchanging and
“breaking” and wagging flags; it is fonder ot
national anthems and hymns than a bottle-o
is of mouth-organs, and it is ready to talk
or howl Empire seven days in the week.
Here is an opportunity for these people to do
the overtaxed and underfed inhabitants of
Britain something more than lip-service. It
needs no demonstration that the States of the
Commonwealth, acting individually, are im-
potent to deal with the Meat or any otner
Trust. The effective blow can only be
struck by the Federal Parliament. It may
be argued again, as it was during the recent
Referenda campaign, that the handing over
to the Federation of the powers requisite to
scotch Trusts means the sacrifice of State
Rights. But every gain necessitates some
form of sacrifice; and it is a particularly
bogus variety of Imperialist who puts, paro-
chial sentiment before such a magnificent
and humanitarian ideal as cheap food for
stonebroke Britons.
♦
Maoriland’s Troubles.
Maoriland’s Parliament rolled up its
sleeves the other day, and started in to do
nothing of much importance for the last
time before facing the country. Governor
Islington, in his remarks to the honorable
and other gentlemen, said that, in view
the long session of last year, and the large
amount of important legislation which was
then passed, his advisers were of opinion
that this session might be a comparatively
short one. With that he commended then-
labors and other jobs to. the blessings of the
Omnipotent, and hurried home in case he
should be asked to stay and be introduced to
another pawnbroker. The list ot bills
that are threatened contains nothing-
new, strange, or even startling, the
most important being a Local Govern-
ment measure, which has about the
same chance ot receiving serious attention
as it has had these many years. But it the
session is not productive of much useful
legislation, there will be no shortage ot
threats, accusations, challenges, language that
the young policemen hand up. on paper, and
other evidences of an electioneering cam-
paign such as usually marks a dying Parlia-
ment in louland. Only it will probably be a
little more marked than usual, for the reason
that the elections in November are practi-
cally Opposition leader Massey’s . last
chance. If he cannot get office this time it
will save him and his party much vain labor
and tribulation to throw the towel in; and
he wants office like the firemen and trimmers
in Slieol have wanted a rest ever since Free-
trade was invented. He ; has stumped the
country as it has not been stumped in M.L.
by the Conservatives for years, and every
possible appeal and every plausible argu-
ment has been advanced that might, at last,
bring about the hitherto hopeless task of
ejecting the Liberal-Labor Government that
B Allance bowed in exactly 20 years ago.
And there is no doubt that the prospects are
brighter now than they have been during
that time. Still, they are not as bright, as
they might be. They are not even so bright
that this paper would take 10 to 1 if all
Israel were calling the odds at the front door.
The democracy of Maoriland has long passed
the day when the political descendants of
the old, dreadful Atklnson-Billßussell
union would be given a chance to apply the
brake. Certainly that party’s mouthpiece,
the Wellington Dominion, after a recent per-
spiring attempt to prove that the Massey
crowd contains the only true Democrats, said
that, even in the strongholds of the Govern-
ment, the addresses of Opposition members,
and their attacks on the Administration, had
been cheered and applauded. “This,” said
the paper, “is a very striking thing.” But
cheers and applause don’t go for much. People
do those things because it is a habit. If it
were the habit to publicly throw stale cats
at political disasters, it would be done. But
it isn’t. Which shows what bad habits our
forefathers fell into in face of brilliant
opportunities.
*
Wanted : Another Statue.
“Australia First” calls for another statue:
The recent call for a statue to George Higin-
botham is soundly based on merit; but there is a
man who, inferior as he may have been to Higin-
botham in many ways, yet was the more picturesque
man of action, and so must the more easily catch
the Australian’s imagination and hold it the more
tenaciously. Another charming Sydney street decora-
tion is proposed in the equestrian statue of Edward
VII. There is danger to the flatulent Imperialists
in the proposition. To the Australian, a king or
other person who has not been in Australia is not
a personality, but a face, and there are at least two
men in Australia—both of the Badly Chosen race—
of whom the representation of a bluff, good-humored
podgy man on a horse would be a portrait. The
equestrian nature of the statue is a cunning scheme
enough, because the Australian is prepared to do
most things for a horse, and the animal would cover
the glorification of the pacemaker who became a
peacemaker. Yet, horse and all, the “movement
moves only in the interests of pure biz. and official-
ism. The sub. list is headed by £lOOO from an
anonymous “Loyal subject of his Majesty the par-
ticular “Majesty” not being stipulated—and the
anonymity is sure to be disclosed at a fitting time,
say "near to a date when Birthday or New Year
“honors” are to be handed out like cold meat to a
hobo S. M. Herald gives a hundred pounds and
Svdney D.T. a hundred guineas—which is £5 more
“loyal” than the Fairfaxes, and may be ascribed to
the fact that Randal rhymes well enough with
handle. The balance of a very insignificant total
has been subscribed by people whose names can be
ticked off in advance by anyone with a superficial
knowledge of “Society” and of trade directories.
Nearly all the existent statues are English or Irish
or Scotch—Toil Moore has a statue not because he
was a verv cheap kind of poet, but because he was
Irish; and Burns has a statue mainly because he
was Scotch. There are statues to mediocrities who
took public salaries for two generations, and yet
other statues to Chinese Gordon, who doesn t
amount to a row of pins in his interest to Aus-
tralians. But Higinbotham should certainly be inter-
esting. So, also, should the lesser gentleman and more
picturesque personality, Peter Lalor. No nation
was ever made without a scrap, and our nationhoocl
would not have cast a shadow yet but for Australia s
only fight at Eureka. It gave Victoria Responsible
Government; in it was born the Commonwealth as
it is to-day, though nobody was found to name the
child until 46 years after it; it smashed the aristo-
cracy of the gaoler and the bureaucrat, with its ac-
companying stupid British officialism, and the con-
vict system began to die. Let us celebrate the tact
that that officialism could not find a jury to convict
the “traitor,” but that the country did find electors
to raise the “traitor” to the highest position in the
Legislature. Crown Colony Government tried to
make of Lalor a futile rioter in another Chartist
agitation—tried to brand him an irresponsible brag-
gart and whirling demagogue; and a free State ac-
cepted him as a solid man —a leader alike in peace
and in war, and held him so to die as Speaker ot the
Victorian Assembly. Once said a member to him,
questioning his ruling and quoting May: 1 pre-
sume, Mr. Speaker, we cannot go behind May s rules
of procedure. If he is not the last authority, who
is?” And bluff old Peter answered: I am! We
don’t want subscriptions for the memorial of Eureka
to come in thousands from Loyal subjects ot soni
unspecified Majesty, nor in hundreds from tit e-
hunters and self-advertisers. Me want it in halt
crowns or shillings, with a vote at the back of every
bob. A statue of Peter Lalor, in diggers mole-
skins and open shirt and miner’s boots, with one
fist lifted and with one empty sleeve What a lot
he had up that empty sleeve ! And there s no
slavish and unintelligent Australian Jingoism behim
this either. Let’s get the best man we can get to do it,
say Derwent Wood; and for the statue that repre-
sents Australia’s first call to nationhood, we want
shillings that carry votes. As one result of Lalor s
interference with the beneficent rule that
hunted diggers, I have only one vote, but 1 11 give
10s. in its honor.
♦
The Fruit-grower and His Sugar.
One of the stock complaints of the Aus-
tralian fruit-grower is the alleged dearness o
sugar for jam-making, and one of the species
lately wailed once more, in a Melbourne
paper, that the Customs duty of .£6 per ton
was ruining the jam-making and jam-export-
ing business, and should be removed immedi-
ately. It was a plausible plea; nevertheless
it leaks. In the first place, jam manufac-
turers receive drawback on the sugar con-
tained in exported jam, to the full amount
of duty, if any, already paid. That is, tne
in exported jam pays no Customs duty
at all. Second, if the jam-maker uses Aus-
tralian sugar he does not, as the wailful
fruit-grower claims, pay a heavy tax to
“maintain a precarious Queensland
try.” The sugar industry is so ‘ precarious
that it is now firmly enough established to
meet the Australian demand, anyhow; and
even if it weren’t, the indirect tax that tne
fruit-grower pays is a trifle compared with
the protection that the fruit-grower and jam-
maker themselves receive. Ihe real trouble
with the aggregate fruit-grower was unin-
tentionally exposed by the Orqhardists Co
operative Association’s secretary, who stated,
in referring to the drawback allowed on ex-
ported sugar in jam, that the ( producer gets
none of this drawback, as all fruits aie
bought at a price calculated on the basis of
cost of manufacture for sale locally. L*
actlv ! All the jam makers pay practically
the same prices for Victorian fruits.-—which
loudly suggests either a combine or a horrible
understanding—and they pocket the dra.w-
back on the exported article, and leave the
growers lamenting. However, as the fruit-
growing districts of Doncaster, Milduia,
Somerville, etc., all voted at the Referenda
a°ainst interference with monopolies and
combines, the growers presumably approve
of those beasts of prey and their depreda-
tions.
Choice Sample of Union Tyranny.
Melbourne saw a sweet sample of “union
tyranny” the other day, when three ot the
heads of a very exclusive union considered
for several hours whether a certain appren-
tice should be admitted as a member. He
had been properly indentured, and had served
his time duly and creditably, but as his ap-
prenticeship articles provided for no wages,
the misguided youth nad toiled in his spare
time to keep liimself alive and pay his tees,
and that caused trouble. It was honorable
toil he engaged in, and quite as useful as the
trade lie had been apprenticed to; but the
union bosses, apparently wishing to keep the
“pitch” exclusive, had made a regulation
that nobody who turned an honest penny
during his unpaid apprenticeship should be
admitted to the union. As the three union
bosses couldn’t agree on the matter, they re-
ferred it to tlie full committee, which will
doubtless ponder it some day. The strange
thing about the episode is that, though every
Melbourne paper reported the case, not one
of them made any remarks about tlie gross
injustice done to an honorable, industrious,
young apprentice,” or demanded that tne
Government should interfere to prevent this
“tyrannous and high-handed action by a tew
well-paid agitators living on the game. _ .Pro-
bably the reason was that the apprentice in
question was Sol. Bloom, a well-known elo-
cutionist, and that the union to which he
applied for admission was that ot the law ;
and it took three allegedly learned Judges
half a day to decide that they couldn t decide
whether or not a man was unfit to be a law-
yer because he had done a little honest work
to keep the pot boiling
The Australian National movement is
threatened, and (more’s the pity!) the
trouble is being hatched, not in a Liberal
nest but within the N. S. Wales State Labor
movement. Already steps are being taken
to secure the selection of three Little Aus-
tralians as the Senate candidates tor 1911.
Throughout the leagues and unions an
opinion is also being sedulously fostered that
certain of the N. S. Wales Representatives
should be replaced by “better and abler’ men
“better and abler” standing for Holman-
Beeby State-Frighters, bred-in-the-bone E ree-
traders, peace-at-any-pricers, and grovelling
worshippers of the parish pump, with its
guardian House of Fat. If the plot is suc-
cessful, the intrusion of a dozen or more of
such members into the National Labor party
will spell trouble, if not disastei , and the -t>isj
Australians in the unions and leagues must
see to it that at coming conferences the
Australian policy and pledge are drawn up
so that no room will be left for any clipping
of the National ideals or tampering with the
National policy.
Who spoke of democratic things to Mabel
Banders nitch.
And likewise there, on couch and chair, with
keen, attentive ears,
Sat many sons and daughters of our sturdy
pioneers ;
Seed of our noble squatter-lords, those Demo-
crats of old.
Who held to this fair land of ours as hard
as they could hold ;
Whose motto is, and ever was, despite the
traitor's gab,
“Australia for Australians —as much as
each can grab.”
(In cultured tones) :
“Deah friends,” began Miss Fibwell, “you
—haw—understand our h League
Is formed to stand against that band of
schemers who intrigue—
That horrid band of Socialists who seek to
wrest ouali raights.
And, with class legislation, straive to 1 ’ague
ouah days and naiglits.
They claim to be the workahs of the land ;
but Ai maintain
That though they stand foah horny hands,
we represent the bwain.
Are not bwain-workers toilers, too, who
labah without feali?”
(The fashioner of fancy ties: “Heah, heah !
Quaite raight! Heah, heah!”)
“They arrogate unto themselves the sacred
name of Work.
But still, Ai ask, wheah is the task that
we’ve been known to shirk?
We’re toilahs, evTy one of us, although they
claim we’re not.”
(The toiler on the ottoman: “Bai Jove, I’ve
heard thet rot!”)
“Moahovah, friends, to serve theah ends,
they’re straiving, maight and main,
To drag down to theah level folk who work
with maind and bwain.
They say we do not earn ouah share, but,
Ai maintain, we do.”
(The grafter in the fancy socks: “The’ah
beastly rottahs, too!”)
(With rising inflexion ) :
“Yes, friends, they’ll drag us down and
down, compelling us to live
Just laike themselves—- the selfish class —on
what they choose to give.
Nay, moah, they’ll make us weak theah
clothes—plain working-clothes, for-
sooth !
Blue dungarees, in place of these.” . . . “Mai
Gaud ! Is this the troothf”
(With fine dramatic force) :
A gurgling groan ; a sick’ning thud ; a flash
of fancy socks,
And Mr. Percy Puttipate fell like a
stricken ox.
Crashed down, through cakes and crockery,
and lay, ’mid plate and spoon,
In Lady Lusher’s drawing-room one sum-
mer afternoon.
(With a rush of emotion) :
A scream from Mabel Bandersnitcii
pierced through the ev’ning calm
(The cultured grubs, alone unmoved, still
chewed the potted palm).
Strong men turned white with sudden
fright; girls fell in faint and swoon
In Lady Lusher’s drawing-room that fate-
ful afternoon.
(With tears in the voice) :
But Puttipate? ... Ah, what of him —that
noble Democrat,
As lie lay there with glassy stare, upon the
Persian mat ?
What recks he now of nobby ties, or what of
fancy socks,
As he lies prone with cake and cream upon
his sunny locks?
( Mournfully) :
Good Mr. Gkabbit took his head, O’Sweat-
em seized his feet;
They bore him to the ambulance that waited
in the street.
Poor Mabel Bandersnitcii sobbed loud on
Dawdlerich’s vest;
A pall of woe fell over all —Miss Fibwell
and the rest.
A mournful gloom o’erspread the room, as
shades of ev’ning fell,
And, one by one, they left the place, till
none was left to tell
The tale of that dire tragedy that wrecked
the summer calm —
Except the apathetic grubs who went on
eating palm.
(Suggestive pause; then, with fresh in-
terest) :
There still be men —low, common men —who
sneer at Toorak’s ways,
And e’en upon poor Puttipate bestow but
grudging praise.
But when you hear the vulgar sneer of some
low Labor bore,
{With sudden dramatic intensity) :
Point to that pallid patriot on Lady
Lusher’s floor!
Point to that daring Democrat, that hero of
Toorak,
Who lifeless lay, that fateful day, upon his
noble back !
Point to that hero, stricken down for our
great Party’s sake,
His sunny locks, his fancy socks o’er-
smeared with cream and cake.
(In scathing tones) :
Then lash with scorn the base poltroon who
sullies his fair fame,
M ho, moved by fear, attempts to smear the
lustre of that name.
Great Puttipate, the Democrat! who
perished, all too soon,
In Lady Lusiier’s drawing-room one sum-
mer afternoon.
(Finish with a nolle gesture, how grace-
fully, and retire amidst great applause.)
VICTOKIA.
DEN.


DEARD’S British = Built Bioscope,
second to none. Sole Agents—Jerdan’s
Ltd., 393 George Street, Sydney. Let us send
you particulars.*
HARRINGTONS LTD.,
The Cinematograph
Supply House.
The largest assortment of CINEMATOGRAPHS AND
FILMS always in stock by the World’s best makers.
It you want to procure a better supply of Films than
you are obtaining at present, get into communication
with us and state your requirements. Our Film
Library is the largest in the Commonwealth.
We are the people to give you satisfaction.
SYDNEY-MELBOURNE—BRISBANE—ADELAIDE.
ALL KINDS OF OIL ENGINES.
WE are SPECIALISTS in Oil Engines. We
have the LARGEST WORKS in Australia
in this line. We have a. numerous, well-
organised staff. We GUARANTEE all our en-
gines for FIVE YEARS. We have HEAPS of
testimonials showing the complete satisfaction
our engines are giving. We supply oil engines
f ''' r ALL purnoses, marine or stationary, from
2J-h.p. to 100-h.p., also electric light and irri-
euers, coils, etc.
gation outfits, reverse gears, magnetos, carbur-
Ask us to quote.
Invincible Motor Construction Co., Ltd.,
WORKS : Woolwich Dock, Sydney.
CITY OFFICE and SHOWROOMS: 35 Pitt Street,
And at Melbourne and Adelaide.
Franz Josef
Lager Beer
SparKling',
Refreshing',
Exhilarating'
and Pure.
Franz Josef possesses the true Lager quality
and character, being sharp, clean, and of
light gravity.
Tiie Weary Willie Ministry is openly
shameless in its intention to buy the coming
Victorian election with a huge road-loan pol-
icy. Acting-Minister Edgar has been tour-
ing the State and holding up his hands in
holy horror at the dreadful condition of the
roads, and the other day he listened sympa-
thetically while Attorney-General J. Dry
Brown, introducing the usual road-grant
deputation, condemned the perpetual patch-
ing of the roads, and advocated a scheme for
“building them in a permanent way,” and
“allowing posterity to do some of the paying,
so as to relieve the producers of a great bur-
den.” Brown may have winked loudly as
lie said this; but there wasn’t a sign of a
wink about the raucous Peacock as he
wound up his little bit of barrack with the
remark: “Especially in view of the near ap-
proach of the elections.” So Weary and
VVillie are to bid for the land-owning vote
with a loan, and pass the bill on to the baby.
“Public Servant” enters a protest:—
N. S. Wales Public Service got a galvanic shock
when a recent Gazette bluntly notified the removal
of two Works Department officers under Sec. 65 of
the Public Service Act. They were the two whom
Judge Hamilton, sitting as a Royal Commission,
looked sideways at in connection with the placing
of orders for Government stores. The Commissioner
explained that while nothing tangible had come out
against the pair, he regarded their actions with the
gravest suspicion. Up till the Gazette notice the
Service had flattered itself that, under the Public
Service Act, an officer charged with any offence
should be dealt with by his permanent head or the
P. S. Board, and the sudden application of Section
65, which sets out that nothing in the P. S. Act
shall take away from the “Crown” the right to re-
move any officer from the Service, has come like a
large, lorgotten creditor. Admittedly the clause is
a necessary one, but, since the officers in question
were not even charged with an offence, its employ-
ment in their case was unwarrantable. But what
the Service is mostly concerned about is the prin-
ciple that has been set up that the “Crown” can re-
move any officer without a trial or opportunity to
appeal to the P. S. Board, which is the supposed
bulwark between the defenceless Civil servant and
the political Minister. And if that principle is al-
lowed to make good, it supplies the direct avenue
for any successful political party to reach the spoils
and thus reward clamoring friends or placate
threatening enemies.
♦
“Farmer-Father” on the Cow-slavery ques-
tion :
Speaking at the recent conference of the N.S.W. Dairy
Banners’ Union, Mr. R. Aberdeen (Pyree) said that
Mr. Beeby had been misled. Mr. Mclntyre (Berry)
said: “The reports about white slavery were obtained
by questioning the children, who would not be likely
to say they had less to do than they had, but were
more likely to exaggerate. The reports were then
garnished up as a means to attack the parents. If
the States were going to interfere between a man
and his family, it was time they rose in a body to
protest.” Evidently Mr. Mclntyre thinks that the
child-slaves of the dairy farms should be left outside
the protection of law. Mr. Brooks, of Murwillum-
bah, “said he had six sons. He admitted that he took
out of them all that was possible, and he was not
ashamed of it, for he considered that it did them
good, and made them better mentally and physically.
He pointed to what Lord Dudley said at the Grafton
Light Horse Camp, that he had seen there the
best Light Horse Regiment in Australia. It was com-
posed of the sons of the dairy-farmers of the Northern
Rivers.” But Mr. Brooks did not refer to Lord Dud-
ley’s strong remarks at Ulmarra concerning unjustifi-
able child-labor on the dairy farms. And none of the de-
legates contradicted the statements made in the report
of the keen Scotch Commissioners; they ignorcu the
remark about “the most pathetic sight in the Com-
monwealth.” Some of my neighbors are very sore with
an Inspector of Schools, who has obtained reports
from many schools regarding the actual dairy-work
performed by children. They say that their children
tell lies. Truly a cheerful charge to make against their
offspring! I gave the desired information cheerfully,
because I do not overwork my children in the dairy-
yard. Mind, I believe that only a very small
minority of dairy-farmers “take out of their children
all that is possible,” but it is a mean, miserable
and malicious minority that attacks bitterly
and unfairly any official who lets the light
of day into this festering sore. The sooner
a Royal Commission is appointed to inquire
into the Cow child-slavery the better. If the
reports as to child-labor are “unfounded,” why should
dairy-farmers protest that children should be left
under the untrammelled control of their parents?
Is it not because callous, inhuman brutes must be
misusing their unfortunate children, and wish to be
left free to exploit them without interference ? I
repeat, the vast majority of dairy-farmers are warm,
loving, tender parents; but the awful sweaters of
their own children, and of the State children, want
stirring up ; and they are going to be stirred up, baric
they never so loudly. It’s the unaverage dairy-
farmer who brings discredit and disgrace upon us
average fathers.
■ +
Though 45 entries were received for the
Commonwealth’s flying-machine prize of
£5OOO, and the time of the competition was
extended for one year, not a machine was
brought forward to test, and the prize has
lapsed. And no wonder. It was the most
foolishly hypocritical offer ever made, having-
been devised by J. Cook in the days of the
Fusion Ministry, from which foolish and
hypocritical acts were to be expected. The
machine for which Australia was to give
£5OOO would have had to solve all the tough-
est riddles of aviation; it had to soar, hover,
poise, skim, and generally put the seagull
and the sparrow to shame. J. Cook might
as well have asked for a submarine as mobile
in the water as a fish. The silly pretence of
seriousness which Cook invented is now
dead, along with the Ministry which he
helped to render grotesque; and the time
now comes for the genuine organisation of
an aeronautical corps in the Australian
army. It is a comparatively easy process.
Buy a dozen sound machines of reliable type
(there are many such), obtain an expert
instructor, and the Australian officer will
soon be soaring in the air, where some of
him ought to be in time of war. For
£130,000 a year Great Britain is organising
an air battalion of 190 members, besides
building sheds for the huge dirigibles. Very
little money would pay for a proportionate
amount of aviation in the Australian army.
Make no mistake about its necessity. The
aeroplane has provided a form of military
reconnaisance never known before; and
though it hasn't done away with scouting on
horseback, yet if two sides meet in war, and
ope has eyes up in the air while the other
hasn’t, the odds are on the army with the sky-
scouts. And Australia, with its clear air
and its long marching distances, is just the
country where aeroplane reconnaisance will
have the best results.
Mrs. Emma Barker, who died last week
at Neutral Bay, was the widow of William
Barker, solicitor, of the old-time Sydney firm
of Norton, Son and Barker. Wm. Barker
joined the firm in the first ’so’s. On the
death of the original James Norton, one of
the first men admitted to practice in Aus-
tralia, the son —the late James Norton,
M.L.C., continued in partnership with Wm.
Barker for many years. A junior partner in
that ancient firm (now Norton, Smith and
Co.) was the nominal plaintiff in the case that
was brought to test the validity of the Com-
monwealth Government's land tax.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SUONVS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Louis XI.”
Roy ai, “ The Merry Widow.”
Criterion “The Man from Outback.”
Adnlphi “Ac Cripple Creek.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Palace “The Old Woman Who Lived in
a Shoe.”
Princess West’s Pictures.
Lyceum Spencer’s Pictures.
National Amphitheatre Brennan’s Vaudeville Co.
Lyric Continuous Pictures.
Colonial (Nos. 1 &2).. Continuous Pictims.
Glaciarium Ice Skating.
Y.M.C.A. Hall Joseph Blascheck.
Town Hall Leonard Borwick.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess “Via Wireless.”
Royal “ Lady Frederick.”
King’s “ Tommy Atkins.”
Opera House.. Rickards’Vaudeville Co,
Olympia Spencer’s Pictures.
West’s Palace West’s Pictures.
Glaciarium Ice Skating.
Lyric, Prahran Photo Plays.
H. B. Irving’s new production at Her
Majesty’s (Sydney) is little except a charac-
ter-study of Louis XI., a gentleman who
ruled in France while Richard Crook-back
livened up things across the Channel; the
other parts are hardly more than the puppets
that the ventriloquist employs to exhibit his
powers. The chief puppet is Nemours, son
of one of the victims of the cunning, unscru-
pulous and malignantly cruel king. It is the
execution of Nemours and the struggle of the
son to get even with the royal “headsman of
his tribe” that give the character study its
necessary action. And, in the end, when
Nemours might kill, he dramatically stays
his hand, suddenly perceiving that, after all,
he can best punish the unhappy old man by
letting him live his life of self-torture, hourly
dreading the death he fears so much that
lie becomes a gibbering idiot when he thinks
of it. To show the dreadful monarch’s
THE NEW GOVERNOR-GENERAL OF AUSTRALIA ARRIVES IN MELBOURNE.
superstition, and his passion to dodge death
the physician Coitier and the lioly-man Fran-
cois are introduced ; yet even in his dealings
with these he must cheat when it comes to
paying. These two, with Louis himself and
Nemours, fill most of the weak first act and
the absorbing four acts that follow —though
one sees afterwards that they are absorbing
only by reason of the extraordinary excel-
lence of Irving’s performance; a perform-
ance which again and again lifts the audi-
ence right away from itself. If only Irving
did not occasionally lapse into his tricks of
stagey intonation, it would be almost im-
possible to remember that it was all a put-
up show in connection with which you had
just visited _a ticket office. Acting could not
be better; if the words always suited the
action, the whole representation, so far as
Irving is concerned, could not be more con-
vincing.
* * * *
Fortunately, the play is one almost wholly
for men—fortunately, because it is on the
other side that the co. is weakest. But as
there must be a woman in the case, some-
where or other, there is a small part for
Miss Baird, who, however, doesn’t give it
much of the grace and charm that it calls for
above all things else. The only other woman
in the matter is introduced to show the
lecherous facet of the many-sided character
of Louis; and that facet, handled by Miss
Irene Browne, sparkled throughout its few
minutes of limelight. For the rest, the
Nemours of Eric Maxon was likeable, though
inclined to stamp out of the frame and pitch
himself at the audience’s head; Arthur Whit-
by, as the physician, was, on the whole, im-
pressive ; the smooging courtier Olivier
(Arthur Curtis) was excellent; the orchestra
supplied some music that was very good to
hear, and Gordon and Little some scenery
that was very good to look at.
# -#- *
“The Man from Outback” is one of those
penny dreadfuls in melodramatic guise which
may be relied on to attract packed houses
six nights a week, and maintain them in a
condition of utter bliss from 8 p.m. till the
villain’s expiring howl 2% hours later. The
new Criterion show deals with life in the
days of our hardy pioneers. The distinguish-
ing marks of a hardy pioneer, if Bert Bailey
and Edmund Duggan portray the times
aright, were whiskers and brainlessness. The
cattle-duffer, the pioneer’s bane, appears to
have been even more hirsute and less intel-
ligent than his landed victim. Far be it
from the writer to attempt to chronicle the
innumerable stirring situations arising from
the clash of Righteousness (represented by
the squatting interest) with Predatory Evii.
The hero’s escape from the burning hut may,
however, be mentioned. The cattle-duffers
tie him up and leave him to fry, but his dog
transpires and bites him loose. Also, Bert
Bailey’s wholly unexpected appearance in the
top of a tree, what time the duffers are plot-
ting insanely below, rouses considerable
enthusiasm, rising to frenzy when that in-
corrigible wag wings the distracted malefac-
tors, seriatim, with his revolver. The
scenery is fine, and there is a vast quantity
of it.
Roy Redgrave makes Dave Goulburn an
unusually dashing and genteel boundary-
rider. Redgrave’s art does not include the
nice conduct of a stockwhip, and unless the
weapon is taken from him damage must ulti-
mately result to someone —probably to Red-
grave. Bert Bailey, Edmund Duggan, Syd-
ney Winton and Gus Franks entertain
vastly even if they do not always convince ;
and Miss Olive Wilton is a comely and
natural bush maiden. The Bilanderson man-
agement suffered the house to be painfully
overcrowded on Saturday night—a practice
that should be scotched. The Cri. is no
gilded saloon of comfort at the best; when a
section of its patrons is standing on another
section’s feet it becomes horrible.
** # *
“The Merry Widow” came back to Sydney
Theatre Royal on Saturday night for a brief
term, with Miss Young in the name-part
and Frank Greene as Danilo.
** * *
The Cross remains in power at the Adel-
phi until Saturday, when Marlow’s new com-
pany opens with “At Cripple Creek” —a
rousing story of an American gold rush. The
old co. takes the track for Newcastle and the
North.
** * *
The Person Who Knew All About It told
William Anderson last week that no man
could open three shows on the same night
in Sydney without getting hurt. “I didn’t
know that,” said Anderson. “No,” said the
chap who did know ; “that’s why I’m telling
you. And, if you ask me, you’ll slump with
the pantomime at the Palace on Saturday
night.” Anderson’s own idea was that the
Palace would be packed ; and it was. Fur-
thermore, “The Old Woman Who Lived in a
Shoe” will probably surprise those people
who share the superstition that the Palace
is an unlucky house. If she doesn’t, there
must be something in the superstition. The
children are well trained, as was to be ex-
pected by those who knew that Fanny Lid-
diard was responsible for the principals, and
the fun is healthy, and devoid of that pre-
cocity which usually makes the stage child
a source of wear and tear on the nerves.
That bugbear being absent, the most grown-
up can find an hour pass pleasantly while
small folk build him one of the Old fairy
stories. The Bulletin hasn’t decided which
is the brightest girl in the show, but expects
to make up its mind by next week, about the
same time as the Mudgee and Liverpool
Plains people have made up their minds
about those other bright artists, Messrs.
Wade and Storey, tumblers, somersaulters,
etc. Meanwhile, Vera Bromley (the Old
Woman) can temporarily hold the en-
gagementring.
* * su *
Joseph Blaschcck and Mildred Wrighton,
society entertainers, now showing at the dim
retreat known as the Y.M.C.A. Hall (Syd-
ney), have been successfully discovered by a
goodly number of pleasuring explorers ; but
they deserve to be conveniently placed in
some, cosy central hall, where even the drift-
ing amusement-seeker could discover them.
Unfortunately, Sydney, which is cumbered
with about 15.000 superfluous oyster shops,
has no such building; so the entertainers’
piano has had to be planked at the top of a
steep stairway, in a dim and remote side-
street. Blascheck, unlike Mel. B. Spurr and
Leslie Harris, is not chained by necessity
to the piano stool. The musical part of the
show is attended to by Miss Wrighton, who
is an expert accompaniste and an ideally
sympathetic co-worker. This leaves him
free to move about the stage and use his
expressive hands. He is equally strong in
pathos and humor, has a bewildering reper-
toire, and at least one of his own mono-
logues-—the J.P. —is ps good as anything of
its kind the writer has seen or heard. The
tall, decorative Miss Wrighton, besides teas-
ing the piano extremely well, possesses a
rich, Well-trained voice, a vivacious, fascin-
ating manner, and a sense of humor,
* * *
With the coronation of the Fifth of the
Georges, English history has started another
gilt-edged vellum page; with the coming of
“Hiawatha”—the new “first part”—to Syd-
ney Tivoli, another dramatic era has begun.
These great changes induce sad reflections:
but the move-on clause is strictly enforced
m the busy Sundry Shows column, and the
traffic constable, with an imperious wave of
his blue pencil, drives the brooding moralist
on his way. Marguerite Ismay and her
three song-and-dance girls, and Emile Lazern,
the smiling illusionist, are the fresh turns of
the week. Lamberti, the musician with the
library of whiskers, is the big man of the
bill. _ The other names mentioned by the ad-
vertisement are Binns and Binns (musical
comedians), Fanny Powers (mimic), Alcide
Capitaine (gymnast), Pastor and Merle (ec-
centriques), and comedian Kalman. The
wide, gleaming smile of Irving Sayles had
almost escaped mention, but one-sixth of it
is hereby included.
** * *
The National Amphitheatre has treated
itself to an entirely new first part. Farm
Cove is gone, and in its stead there is an
alluring representation of a Dutch flower
market. The Piquays, Millie Doris, the
I' agges, and Reece and McGee supply the
rest of the Art, and this journal has no
bricks to fling at any of them.
** * *
“The Hobby Horse” will be presented at
St. James’s Hall (Sydney) on the 11th
and 12th of this month, by the University
Dramatic Society. The show is in the cause
of charity, and the box plan is at Paling’s.
** * *
“Margaret Catehpole,” Spencer’s new all-
Australian film at the Sydney Lyceum, leaves
little to be desired in the way of cinemato-
graphy. The acting is good ; the film itself
is flawless; and the whole thing is produced
without a flick. The picture covers the tra-
ditionally picturesque story of the life of
Margaret, from the time she was crowned
Queen of the May in her English village to
her marriage in Botany Bay; and that, of
course, includes her 70-mile ride to London,
her arrest, her escape to the smugglers’ den,
her re-arrest, her trial, and the cordial invi-
tation she got to come to Australia. As a
frill hung on the picture, the Harvest
Song is sung while the maypole dance is in
progress. Besides the Catehpole film there
is a fine one of the departure of the League
footballers for England last Saturday.
** * *
At the Princess Theatre (Sydney) West’s are
showing a picture of the launching of Maori-
land’s Dreadnought. The launching of the
loan that paid for it, unfortunately, isn’t in-
cluded in the film. At the tail-end of this
week a blood-curdling picture of the shelling
of the old ship Texas—a part of some recent
naval tests —will be screened for the special
benefit, no doubt, of the people who think
that only Australia’s enemies should have a
say in an argument of that sort. As another
co. has taken over the Palace, West’s have
only one show going, but their season at
the Glaciarium will open on September 9.
** * *
As Lady Frederick Bcvolles, .an orna-
mental, witty, warmhearted, but otherwise
reprehensible member of England’s “Smart
Set,” Ethel Irving captivated the crowd at
Melbourne Royal last Saturday. As Stella,
in “The Witness for the Defence,” the effect
of her realistic acting was somewhat
clouded by the faults of the story, but in the
present case she “creates” a character that
controls the play. The force of her charm-
ing femininity compels sympathy for a wo-
man who lives only for dress and frivolity,
who is up to her pencilled eyelids in debt,
and who, being “a lady born and bred,” is
high-minded only when she sacrifices her
polished serenity to her hot temper. Lady
Frederick is almost an Irish Becky Sharp,
blessed with a brogue, and restrained by
unexpected scruples—a widow whom Mrs.
Grundy naturally suspects because she is
irresistible. Her cynical former adorer, Para-
dine Fouldes, tells her she “would be irresist-
ible if she didn’t know how clever she is.”
but he afterwards stultifies his criticism by
renewing his vows of love. The little com-
edy is least true when most laughable—as in
Lady Fred’s scenes with the dressmaker
and the admiral —and truest when most sen-
timental.
* * * *
The former adorer has been summoned
to Monte Carlo by his sister to wrest her
son (his nephew) from the fascinations of
Lady Frederick. This boy of 22 sees only
an artless young angel in the happy-go-
lucky Irish widow of nearly 40. She could
annex him and his title and his £50,000 a
year, but even the taunts and accusations of
the boy’s mother cannot drive her to do it.
Paradine offers her a big bribe to leave the
place. She is unbribeable. A cold-blooded
millionaire bounder, who has bought her pro-
missory notes from another Hebrew, offers
her a marriage bargain. She would rather
face bankruptcy than marry the beast.
Her deceased husband was a beast. As
long- as she merely knows that she is slan-
dered behind her back, she will smile and
smile and play the siren ; but as soon as her
morals and her motives are openly attacked,
she proves herself a good sort, and puts the
other cat in the wrong. Besides, she likes
the other cat’s brother, Paradine, because he
took his befoolment philosophically in the
long ago. Therefore, when she has disillu-
sioned her boy-captive by parading herself
before him as a wrecky charmer at her toilet,
and repairing the ravages of time under his
astonished eyes, she is genuinely glad to say
Yes to uncle Paradine, whose wide experi-
ence of women has taught him that this
eccentric worldling should be an ideal wife
for a wealthy cynic.
Ethel Irving’s art is beautifully convinc-
ing. When Lady Frederick is playing a
Part Miss Irving reveals the society actress
in the character; but the moment that Lady
£ succumbs to an emotion, the genuineness
ot the woman is shown in the artist’s imper-
sonation of her. The refinement of the art
would be more fully appreciated in a


BOWEL COMPLAINTS IN CHILDREN.
The most successful medicine in use for bowel
complaints in children is Chamberlain’s Colic,
Cholera and Diarrhcea Remedy. It can always be
depended upon to cure Diarrhoea and Dysentery.*
Brought to Bay
Are those enemies of civilisation, Indigestion and
Dyspepsia, when Dr. Sheldon’s Digestive Tabules
are employed; 2s. 6d. per tin of 80 Tabules.*
Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
*
FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED,
PITT AND KING STREETS, SYDNEY.
ACCIDENT, EMPLOYERS’ LIABILITY, PLATE GLASS, Etc.
Lowest Kates Charged.
‘Phone No. 'iSO Central.
G. HOWARD POPE, Manager.
Settlements Prompt and Equitable.
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman.
smaller theatre, but an attempt at over-act-
ing would be a mistake, probably. Stephen
Ewart has much to do as the cynic, and does
it admirably. Hobbes gives a picturesque
impression of the cold-blooded bounder;
Gamble and Whitling are very good as the
lordling and a staid manservant; Miss Nel-
son and Gilbert Porteous very passable in
popular comedy parts. The aforesaid were
all in the cast of “The Witness for the De-
fence.” Some newcomers are not striking
successes, whilst P. Wilson, who did well as
an old man in the previous play, makes a
very poor show as a young man in this.
After “Lady Frederick,” which is finished
by 10 o’clock or so, comes “Dolly’s Little
Bills,” mostly a bright duologue between
Miss Irving and Ewart, with Whitling as an
occasional chorus. The lady plays her part
to the life. She is an extravagant little wife,
bereft of “the money sense,” and Ewart is
the loving husband, who has to pay 15s. a
pair for her simple domestic garters. An
atmosphere of reckless expenditure pervades
the double programme, and the staging is
appropriately luxurious.
** * *
A revival of “The Silver King,” for six
nights only, filled the Princess’s on Saturday,
as a matter of course. The old play gains
new interest in some of the parts, and loses in
others. Jaikes, as Atliolwood shows him, is less
Jaikes, as Atholwood shows him, is less
senile, and not so likely to die of cold and
impecuniosity in a snow-bound cottage, as
his predecessors were. Leslie Victor, as
Corkett, and Cyril Mackay, as Spider, bring
individuality to bear on work that tradition
has prepared for them, whereas Desmond is
only a plump, cherubic Denver, who comes
back from Colorado with the air of a man
who is sure of a round of applause, and is
looking forward to his longest speech. On
the other hand, Miss Irby Marshall is a
somewhat slight and mild Nellie, and Miss
Alma Vaughan seems a trifle faint-hearted
for the wife of the most distinguished burg-
lar on the stage. On Saturday the “Whip”
co. comes td pass at the Princess’s with “Via
Wireless.”
** * *
In “Tommy Atkins,” at the King’s, Walter
Baker is now devoting his rich style to the
portrayal of the beauteous Harold Wilson.
Harold is a parson, who, disdaining the con-
version of village idiots and super-snobs,
joins the British Army for pleasure and ex-
citement. In the Army he encourages habits
of heroism, and develops a passion for Miss
Ruth Raymond, who has been hampered with
the usual inopportune babe. Captain Mait-
land is the author of the lady’s burden, but,
though he is a very giddy wretch, whose
fondness for women in general has the
vehemence of a monomania, in the hands of
Arthur Styan he is about as exhilarating as
an elderly grocer. In the sketch of Ruth
Raymond, by Miss Frances Ross, the only
anachronism is her voice, which probably
belongs to an older period than her face.
With his shiny boots and courteous utter-
ance, Walter Baker is polished at both ends ;
while J. H. Nunn, as Stephen Raymond, is
so virtuous that he would shine all over even
among the aneels. Broad comedy is pro-
vided by Charles Brown, Frank Crossley
and Miss Mabel Russell. A couple of others
do not provide anything in particular.
** * *
Spissell Bros, and Mack, who arrived at
the Opera House last Saturday, are three
American acrobats introducing themselves as
a panto, supper party. Mack being a casual
caller with a disguised ladylike appearance.
As acrohats. the Spissell brethren are bright
and Springlike, but as pantomimists they
seem out of season. Sydney Bach, a mono-
loguer who can play the piano with his nose
when put to it, is a welcome stranger, and
would pass for a humorist if he didn’t talk
before sitting down to the piano. His open-
“LOUIS XI” AT HER MAJESTY'S ,
SYDNEY.
"You won't go to
Heaven when you
die.” St. Henry
Vibart prophesies a
hot time for Louis
(H. B. Irving).
iug remarks excite prejudice by their foolish-
ness. The skaters and the jugglers are there
as before, and a light-footed dancer with
rubber ankles is Daly, assisted by Miss
O’Brien. Two new turns next Saturday
will replace Alf Holt and A. Croxon. There
are some things in this world that can never
be replaced, and others that had better not
have taken place at all. Neither of the de-
parting guests could be one of both sorts.
** * *
At Melbourne Olympia George V. has been
inspecting his fleet and taking a drive to
St. Paul’s Cathedral, and hordes of three-a-
penny nobles have been doing various super-
fluous things in connection with the Corona-
tion. These loyal pictures, however, have
not crowded out the usual batch of dramatic
subjects, which included on Saturday a good
item entitled “In the Days of ’49.” Lhe
feature of this production was the propriety
of a gambler, who, having flirted with an-
other man’s wife, prudishly refuses her oner
to elope wuth him.
** * *
In the musical world of Melbourne a fur-
ther return and extra farewells of Leonard
Borwick are spoken of. The pianist is to
be supported by a first-class string quartet
next Tuesday night, and by a full orchestra
on a subsequent Saturday afternoon.
** * *
The Literary Theatre of Adelaide, playing
for once to a paying audience (in aid of its
new club rooms), condescended to the popu-
lar. “The Conversion of Nat Sturge” would
go well on any stage, with its farcical hu-
mors of the Bishop with a revolver and an
elderly, ugly daughter, and the captured
burglar who is offered the lady, but, after
one good look at her, prefers to take his
chance of seven years’ hard. So would
“Pot Luck” be popular in most places—
with the rural sergeant turning a cottage
upside down on a search warrant, while the
“poached” pheasants hunted for are cooking
on the fire. The “literary” element came in
with “Pride of Life.” There was also Oscar
Wilde’s “Florentine Tragedy,” with its
sword-fight and strangle-hold. Chief honors
went to Arthur Smith and Kathleen Laur-
ence ; to Frank Wilkinson as the poacher,
Rebe Bloom as a “young person,” and Mr.
and Mrs. Bastard —new recruits —as the
burglar and the abnormally unattractive
spinster.
(OLD) “ MISS
GIBBS” WHO
BEACHED HER
FINAL AND
450,000,000th
PERFORMANCE
(OR THERE-
ABOUTS) IN
MELBOURNE
ON SATURDAY.
Plimmer and Denniston are having a big
success at Adelaide Royal, and they de-
serve it. All the same, “Nobody’s Daughter”
is a dangerous play. The acting is more
than good, notably by Mrs. Brough, as the
irregular matron, and Lizette Parkes as the
girl—though she is hardly the country bump-
kin the author probably intended. As for
Harry Plimmer, after years of “support” he
is getting his chance at last, and he rises to
the occasion.
Another of England’s heroes, Dudley Stag-
poole, who won the Victoria Cross in Maori-
land in 1863, has died in the Ware poor-
house, England. Stagpoole was a drummer
in the Middlesex Regiment when he won the
coveted ounce or so of metal.
The whole trouble with David Storey is
told by the signboard on his hattery in
York-street, Sydney—“ David Storey, Im-
porter.” An importer of foreign-made goods
may have sympathy for Australian ideals;
but he has them with great difficulty.
Died at Newstead (Vic.), where he kept
an hotel, W. G. Willoughby, one of Australia’s
best-known rifle shots. When an Australian
rifle team was first sent to Bisley, Wil-
loughby accompanied it at his own expense,
and did better than most of the selected team.
On the way home he came through Canada,
and picked up the championship of the
Dominion and the Governor-General’s trophy.
He was only 48 when he finally laid down his
rifle.
Last week a daily paper mentioned the
bald fact that Captain Watt had got an
aviator’s certificate. This is the Watt who
was A.D.C. to Sir Harry Rawson, when that
salt was employed averting the disruption of
the Empire at Cranbrook (N.S.W.) some
years ago. He is married to a daughter of
Hartley Williams (the Victorian ex-Judge,
who recently returned to Melbourne) and
owns a house in Berkeley Square. He is the
first moneyed Australian to sample the joys
of flying on his own account.
Charlie McCann, who is to go to Eng-
land as Trade Commissioner for S.A., is a
brisk young man of about 30. For some
years he has had charge of the lamb export
industry for the Government in Adelaide,
where he was born and bred. He is a
nephew of ex-Lands Minister O’Loughlin,
and the son of a prosperous farmer. His
mother and her sister (who were the only
children of their parents) have 20 children
between them. He may therefore claim to
come of a family which has done very well
for S.A.
One of the most appalling grievances of
the N.S.W. Farmers’. Conference was that, if
rural workers had a Wages Board, the bosses
would be obliged to keep time-books to show
their employees’ hours of toil. The president
asked the delegates what sort of a life they
would have if an inspector could come into
their homes to pry into their private business.
Apart from the fact that the official could
examine the anti-sweating record in a barn or
a 40-acre paddock, the farmer would be no
worse off than the manufacturer, who has to
gratify the curiosity of a factory inspector, or
the storekeeper, who has to show the inspec-
tor, under the Early Closing Act, how much
overtime has been worked. And neither the
manufacturer nor the storekeeper has yet
threatened the Government official with a
gun, and there doesn’t appear to have been
any particular rush of merchants and manu-
facturers to the lunatic asylum. There
doesn’t appear to have been any rush of
them to the Bankruptcy Court, either.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“Adelaide”: “Margaret Catchpole,” with the
Botany Bay ending, played by the other Irving
(Laurence) at the Duke of York’s (London), was a
dead failure. So Australia is not likely to see it.
“The Oldest Inhabitant”: Apropos Margaret Catch-
pole. Many years ago, a company, of which the late
J. J. Welsh was a member, billed at Launceston
(V.D.L.) a play entitled “Margaret Catchpole.” On
the morning of the performance, a lady (so J. J.
Welsh told this writer) waited upon the manage-
ment, and begged that some other piece should be
substituted ; and she begged so hard that the request
was complied with. At that time some members of
the Reiby family lived close by, as the surviving
member of the family, Thomas Reiby, does now.
This gentleman was born in Mrs. Reiby’s house in
Macquarie Place, Sydney, in 1821.
“L.H.P.”: Until Irving’s revival, Casmir Dela-
vigne's “Louis XI.” has not been seen in Australia
since the Murkan tragedian, William E. Sheridan,
staged it in the early ’Bo’s. He played the usual
English version from Dion Boucicault’s pen—the
same that Charles Kean (the London original) did
at the Princess’s in 1885, and Irving at the Lyceum
in March, 1878. Walter Bentley was the execu-
tioner, and Frank Tyars the Nemours of the Lyceum
cast. The play seems largely borrowed from Sir
Walter Scott’s novel of “Quentin Durward,” a one-
time very popular book in France, and the same
dramatist’s “Marino Faliero” seems a crib from
Lord Byron. The Louis of Scott’s yarn is, however,
not altogether an unsympathetic character, while the
Frenchman’s Louis is all faults.
“0.K.”: Trade-unionism bumped rather roughly
against the Melbourne Amateur Opera i o. in its re-
cent plucky undertaking to run “Hook of Holland”
for a whole week at the Princess’s, by demanding
that the amateur orchestra should take in a number
of professional union players who are members of the
“stock” orchestra at the theatre. If the co. didn’t
take these orchestrians, it was told, it couldn’t have
the scene-shifters; so, though it is battling for its
very life, it had to give in and face 1 the extra ex-
pense. It may have been a fair thing from the union
point of view ; but, all the same, it was an unwise
(not to say tyrannous) imposition. Amateurs have
provided a” fair amount of work for pros. ; but if
they are going .to have fresh expenses heaped on
them by order of the scene-shifters, they are not
likely to provide much employment in future.
Miss Dorothy Manning, daughter of E. B. Man-
ning, of Melbourne, has been engaged for one of the
Branscombe companies of “drawing-room” musical
entertainers. “What’s bred in the bone,” etc., etc.
Miss Dorothy’s parents have been off the stage these
20 years, but they were members of the first co.
that Brough and Boucicaul t brought to Australia.
Tall, thin E. B. played various parts, and helped in
the stage-management, whilst his handsome wife
(Florence Harcourt) appeared firstly in burlesque
and afterwards in comedy.
In addition to Alfred Hill’s musical creations,
Sousa is going to give May Summerbelle’s tuneful
outbreaks three cheers on the American market
when he gets back. The “March King” reckons her
“Blue Pacific March” has a future ; and he ought to
know, because his big band played it in Sydney
Town Hall. Miss Summerbelle writes music as a
relaxation from writing “copy” for the Sydney news-
papers.
Theatre-goers who remember Edmund Gwenn’s
versatility as an old man actor —-his Lively in “Sun-
day” contrasted with the aged Earl in “Crichton” —
will appreciate a recent London notice of the good
comedian’s work in “The Career of Nablotsky”:
“Mr. Edmund Gwenn’s performance of the poor
schoolmaster was not less remarkable as a mere
personation than for the feeling with which the part
was imbued. Mr. Gwerm not only looked like a
Russian, but seemed, in his servility, to feel like a
Russian.” Gwenn must be about the best imported
character-actor this country has seen. His spry
clown in “Twelfth Night” divided the honors with
Atholwood’s inimitable Toby Belch.
“U.S.”: In her lately-ended American tour, Sarah
Bernhardt, now 67 years old, did an incredible
amount of work. In 35 weeks she acted 285 times
—often twice in the day—travelled 25,000 miles,
and visited 103 different cities. Her personal share
of the profits is alleged to be about £50,000.
“Propstick”: Without venturing definitely to cor-
rect “W.F.’s” statement that Br.ooke was intoxicated
while acting lago at Ballarat, and that Hoskins had
to take the part, I will only say that I had an
old copy of Bell’s Life in Victoria, which
stated that the offender was H. N. Warner, replaced
by Hoskins, while Brooke acted Othello. However,
we all know Brooke’s failing. I would be sorry to
think that both of them put poor Manager Hoskins
in a hole. Mathias, who became Melbourne’s dog
inspector, went round the Victorian provinces with
Brooke as a cornet player. He narrated that, one
night in Maryborough, Brooke was a very unsober
Richelieu, and, being guyed, flung his wig at the pit.
The unfortunate failing apparently spoilt his first
London season; Marie Duret would stand at the wing
with a hot grog. Brooke married, in 1851, the
lady who accompanied him to Australia. She had
charge of Fanny Cathcart, who only got £2 a week.
I don’t know whether that first Mrs. Brooke accom-
panied her husband to America, between the years
1851 and 1854. He married Avonia Jones about
1862.
“S.T.S.”: A visit, to Adelaide’s thriving picture-
shows leaves a number of confused impressions, and a
few clear ones. For instance, the way in which the
Americans “act the heads off” the various Continental
players, bar the expensive, specially-named stars.
The Frenchman or Italian of the humorous film plays
the buffoon right through, and the minor characters
cannot keep still a second ; in trying to earn their
salary they spoil the picture. A character may be
called “Bill” in the programme, but in 10 seconds
over-emphasis gives him away. (When dawns the
happy day when the work done for Australians shall
be mostly done by men whose name is Bill,
or thereabouts?) The subtlety of the serious
films has immensely increased, and they now
have to be explained in words. “Sadie, re-
turning from a theatrical tour, recognises
that her place henceforward is Home”: such was a
recent specimen. How children follow these ideas is
a mystery ; but they do, somehow. A murderer dropped
his handkerchief lately—not obtrusively—somewhere
behind the corpse. Wrong man arrested; corpse re-
moved ; kerchief lying about. Enter comic man,
puzzled at his friend’s arrest, and sits down to think
it over. Presently he saw evidence. Now, the mo-
ment he cocked his eye in that direction —before he
stirred to pick it up —a shrill yell of appreciative
delight went up from a thousand childish throats!
Finally, such few English and Australian views as
there are err in the lack of explanation. There was
a long one lately of surf-bathing in Sydney; it had
no “cross-headings” at all after the title, and left a
lot of things doubtful to people away from Sydney.
The cinematograph threatens to exterminate the
weekly picture-papers of the old type. Times were
when “loyalists” gloated over fanciful representa-
tions in (say) the Illustrated London News of
princes and princesses performing star parts. In
those times it was possible to impress the public
with the belief that a royal personage was never less
than 6Rt. high. But, nowadays, the cinematograph
fiend depicts every sort of pageant worth mention-
ing. and “loyalty” is supplied with life-like portraits
of its idols in action. And “loyalty,” which was
formerly fed and fattened by black-and-white “art”
stuff, is now getting its health somewhat undermined
by moving pictures of the truth.
“0.K.”: There used to be a story of an old sea
captain whose sailing ship brought him to Melbourne
once a year, and who always went to the Royal for
his one night at the play, his other nights being
devoted to grog. Invariably the ancient mariner
ran up against a revival of “Struck Oil.” The sixth
time it happened, he waited five minutes to convince
himself that John Stofel and Lizzie were the same
John and Lizzie, and then he asked of his next-seat
neighbor, “When are they going to change the
blanky bill at this theatre? It’s been the same for
half a blanky century.” That sea-dog might these times
go to six different picture theatres in a week, and get
practically the same bill at each. Also, he might
get the same old lot of pictures repeated in half a
dozen places at his next port of call. Then he would
regard his condition as serious. Snakes!
The advance agent who recently looked round a
just-completed Sydney playhouse, and said: “What
1 like about this theatre is the agnostics are so
good,” was the very same who alarmed the departed
Dan Barry with his mispronunciations. “Secure
supers for posse of police,” wired Daniel. Arriving
at the town he enquired if all the supers had been
rounded up. “I’ve got the posy of police, all right,
Dan,” said the agent. “Good boy,” replied Daniel;
“and how about the bouquet of soldiers?”
A new picture theatre at Brunswick (Melb.)
—where the green and orange used to battle of
yore—is a bright and comprehensive structure.
It starts with a “fairy garden” basement, and works
up to a sliding-roof. The entrance to the vestibule
has some smart shops on either side, and over thege,
running the width of the building, are a big billiard-
room and a hall for hops, lodge meetings, etc., with
a bit of roof-garden attached. “Fairy bower” and
“roof garden” are wide descriptive terms, of course;
it remains for the nobility and gentry of Brunswick
to develop the meaning of them.
“Harrison O.” : The prize-list of Ballarat’s annual
musical and elocutionary orgy is a quaint document.
There is to be a debate on “The Influence of the
Teachings of Christ on Heathen Nations.” In a
spitefully personal way, the prospectus bars “press-
men and clergymen” from competing in this subject.
There is to be a “criticism” on “Marie Corelli: her
Place in Literature.” Next year I’m told the sub-
ject is to be “Gregory Wade, V.C.: his Place in the
World’s History.” Two pounds are offered for an
“oration” on “The Coronation and the Significance
of its Ceremonies.” Bruce Smith, unfortunately, is
barred, as there is a time limit of 20 minutes. All
contests open exclusively for males are “for gentle-
men only.” Mere blokes are thus given a hint to
keep on doing something useful.
Wirths’ Circus is in mourning for a wolf. The
dog’s relative got out of its cage at Maryborough
(Q.) the other night, and after having a look round
the town, strolled out to The Pocket, a few miles
away. There it made an attack upon a cocky’s hen-
roost, and Miss Cocky, hearing the row, went to see
what was up. When the escapee saw her coming he
went to meet her. Father Cocky met the wolf at
the door with a gun, and the gun had the last word.
“Stargazer”: The other night, at Melbourne Prin-
cess’s, the audience was actually stirred to demon
strative antagonism. It is many years since a Mel
bourne theatrical audience, deluded by the rapturous
superlatives of a half-column ad., asserted its un-
doubted right to protest in a practical way when
satisfied that it was being given raw tripe in place
of the choice edibles which managerial exuberance
led it to expect. On this occasion the performers
were amateurs, but that fact was not stressed in the
advertisements, and amateurs who ask people big
prices at a prominent metropolitan theatre, if unable
to deliver the substance in good order and condition,
deserve to feel the turnip of disapproval good and
hard.
“Spider”: Who objects to disloyalty ? On the
Saturday Edward Vll.’s death was cabled we were
running an educated ape as a side-show. All other
amusements, except the hotels, closed. We really
needed the money, so kept open. Each of our shows
lasted about four minutes, with intervals just long
enough to change crowds, and we were packed from
2 p.m. till 10 p.m., when we were almost too weak
to put the monkey to bed. The only murmur about
“disloyalty” that I heard came from the ape.
A petition to the Commonwealth Govern-
ment, asking for some protection for Austra-
lian writers and artists, and, incidentally, a
bit more for Australian printers, is now being
extensively signed. The idea is to ask for
a 33£ p.c. duty on magazines and sixpenny
novels. A copy of the petition is at The
Bulletin office (ground floor) for signa-
ture.
“High” and “Low” had a pitched battle
over the election of a canon for St. Andrew’s
(Anglican) Cathedral, Sydney, last week.
The High Church party—the party of
Rather More Millinery—ran Dr. Radford,
while the Low Church —the party of Rather
Less Millinery—put up Archdeacon D’Arcy
Irvine. Mudgee isn’t as excited as the Synod
was over its poll, which ended in favor of
the Archbishop and Rather Less Millin-
ery by 163 to 119.
Magistrate Riddell, of Wellington (M.L.),
says he “does not believe in extending leni-
ency to persons who abandon little children,”
so he gave a young mother 21 days for leav-
ing her child near the Home of Compassion
in that city. She couldn’t get a home for it,
the father wouldn’t help, and she hid near-
by till she saw the infant taken into the
home. It was essentially a case wherein the
Law would have shown itself less of an ass
if it had acted more like a human being.
This paper forgives Footscray (Victoria)
its worst smell. Observing that there wasn’t
a suitable hall available for putting the
national army that is to be through its
facings, some local enthusiasts, headed by
the Mayor, have started a healthy movement
to raise funds for building a drill-hall. And
the canvassers are doing something more
than cadge coin; they are giving the
National spirit a hearty lift.
“CAYENNE.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Yet, to my mind, the drama is a bit under-acted.
We have a London replica, whereas it is usual for
Londoners in Australia to cayenne a little. —“ One
Who Pays,” in B. 27/7/’ll.
The mummers who come here to mum
In various “London productions,”
Should ne’er under-act,
Because, as a fact,
The “gods” create horrible ructions
Whenever they see that the women and men—
Pardon, ladies and gents—of the cast lack Cayenne!
Their motto should be “Let it go!”
The London originals scorning,
For “Snells” lie in wait,
With their note-books to slate
Ev’ry tame copyist. So take warning,
Ye mimes of the “natural” school, for, ye ken,
There’s a chiel takin’ notes of your lack of Cayenne !
Just show that you’re acting, my friends ;
Don’t try, I implore, to disguise it;
Your art in the Strand
May get the glad hand,
But Bourke-street may frankly despise it;
And gallery blokes may perhaps chant “Amen”
At the end of your scenes if you’re lacking Cayenne!
Milk-and-water these days won’t go down,
When good Beer is cheap—that is certain !
Show you’re people of blood,
Or your name will be Mud,
You will find at the fall of the curtain ;
While the humorous critics this epigram pen:
“The play was 0.K., but the cast lacks K.N!”
VICTORIA.
EARDLEY TURNER.


Two Good
Quality Hats.
This illustration depicts the real Indian Pith
Helmet, known also as the Solar Topee. It is exceed-
ing! v light, in weight, and quite sunproqf. The
color is grey with grey silk puggaree; it is per-
fect-ly ventilated all round head baud.
Price in all sizes
12/6
WE PAY CARRIAGE on Men’s Hats
to any part of the Commonwealth,
The Ideal Hat for the Country, with wide brim as
illustration, measuring3| inches. This hat ismadeof
fur, and is soft and pliable, and can be rolled up like a
Panama. In Reseda Green, Cigar Brown and Medium
Grey, with unbound brim. Also Grey with
bound brim
Better qualities, with 2J to 3 inch brims
9/6
12/6
DAVID JONES LTD., SYDNEY.
SAVED EXPENSE OF SEA VOYAGE.
Mr. ffm. E. Goode, 107 Victoria Street, Christ-
church, N.Z., says: “For eight years Chamberlain’s
Tablets have kept from me those terrible bilious at-
tacks from which I suffered for years. I used to
lose many a night’s rest with vile attacks of bilious-
ness, but when one is now threatening, one to three
of Chamberlain’s Tablets ward off the horrible suf-
fering again. My doctor told me the only relief I
could obtain from biliousness was to take a long sea
voyage, but after I had started taking Chamberlain’s
Tablets I saved this time and expense.”*
Rexona.
The Rapid Healer is an Ointment which heals
with remarkable rapidity. Unlike the old-fashioned
ointments, which are very slow in their action,
Rexona speedily relieves after a very few applica-
tions. Sold in triangular pots at Is. 6d. and 3s.*
SOCIETY
AFTER THE COLLISION.
THE L IDY: “ Well, yer might ’ave the per-
liteness ter s’y ‘I beg yer par ding.’ ”
From the back of Booligal:
I see that a lady in Sydney is showing the silver-
tails a new way to cook tucker by putting it in
paper bags. New! What is she giving us? _lt is
only elaborating me and Matilda's way of fixin’ up
feed. When we are on the road we mostly don’t
carry an oven or a frypan: so we simply make a
neat parcel of the item that is to be cooked, and
bury in fine hot ashes, with a layer of live charcoal
on t°P- Powder-bread, spuds, rabbit, fish, etc.,
cooked this way are second to none, and come ■ n
to the sheet of bark with a flavor that you couldn’t
buy at the best hash-house in—what’s the name of
your benighted village again?
James Edmond, after escaping to Egypt: —
One outstanding feature, of a trip through Europe
is that the road is paved with the ruins of dis-
tracted American females. They are everywhere.
The typical American party consists of three.
There is (1) Aunt Keziah, the chaperon, elderly,
pious, bony, spectacled and a poor relation. She is
either unmarried or a childless widow. Then (2)
there is her niece, aged about 25, rather good to
look upon, and also a widow. She pays the ex-
penses. It seems to me that the mortality among
male Americans must be terrible, for Europe is cov-
ered with United States widows. (I met one at
Berlin who had buried three husbands with a broken
front tooth named Smith, and she told me that all
her female relations were widows. I suppose they had
killed their husbands with bad cookery.) Lastly
(3)., there is the solitary child—a little girl of five
or so, named Massachusetts. Massachusetts is a ter-
rible child. She is in a class by herself. She does
nothing that she is told to do, and ( everything she is
told not to do. She howls at the top of her vo’ce
because she can’t have the cruet stand to play with
during meals. At sea she makes the steward’s life a
misery; she is always trying to fall overboard; and
she rubs jam on the uniform of Captain Hannibal
Columbus, the popular but rather unintelligible com-
mander. In Asiatic and African hotels she plays
wild tricks on Jupiter Ammon, the little nigger boy
who runs the lift. Life is never slow nor stagnant
while Massachusetts is around.
This party is always in trouble more or less. It
seldom makes its arrangements with Cook’s Agency,
for it is proud of the fact, or alleged fact, that the
American woman can always pull through by herself.
So these travellers struggle with their own luggage
at unintelligible railway stations and on polvglot
landing places, do battle with Italian Customs house
men and Turkish quarantine officers, mislay their
goods and chattels amid the howls of Massachusetts,
who is always getting lost, get tangled up in their
remittances, and fall into the hands of bogus persons
who drive them five miles to tenth-rate hotels and
charge them 245. for the trip. Also, each of them
blames the other for the fact that they stopped at
the last place which was the worst place on record,
and each declares that the next place (which was also
selected by the other person) will probably be worse
still. And they are always going to give up the trip
and take the: first boat home.
In betweert, times they forget their self-reliance
and consult about their future movements with every-
body. including the Italian , ship captain, who is out-
wardly calm but inwardly mad about the jam
which Massachusetts has 4-rrbbed on his uniform, and
Demetrius, the Greek commercial traveller, who is
fat and sleepy, and knows only a dozen words of
English. And Demetrius listens politely, and shrugs
his shoulders till they are 2ft. higher than his head,
and spreads out his hands till thev extend into the
next parish, and offers small consolation.
If these American ladies would only lay aside
their mutual animosities and combine to wallon
Massachusetts till that young citizeness ceases to
be a public nuisance, Europe would be a better place
than it is, and the American tourist would be several
shades less unpopular.
* * * *
Maoriland pressmen are having delicious
thrills of fear and anticipation. There are
two courses open to them. They may con-
tinue to comfort the leanness of their lives
with the “dignity” that is as much a part of
the stock-in-trade of your “journalist” as of
the starving pro. on Poverty Point; or they
may up and demand to be treated as a
union of honest literary bricklayers. Then-
attitude as a body is admirably reflected in
a warning uttered in the August issue of the
M.L. Journalist by J. Y. Birch, chief
reporter of the Auckland Herald. Says
Birch :
The whole fact of the matter is that journalism
is one of the most strenuous and nerve-wracking of
the professions. No man should enter its ranks with
his eyes blinded to that fact. To become a good
journalist one must love journalism and all the hard
work, all the long hours, and the incessant, weary
round of duty attached to it. Directly journalists
as a body begin to look for rest-cures and other
privileges per medium of unionism, they will find
themselves deteriorating in their work, and conse-
quently of less value to their papers. ... I am in
no sense opposed to the betterment of conditions for
any journalist. What I am opposed to is a union.
There is the question—whether it is proper to
maintain your “dignity” and suffer the anxi-
eties of hardupness and overwork, or kick
“dignity” out to make room for something
more filling. M.L. scribblers, however, are
so divided that they are not likely to make
up their collective mind for a long* time to
come. Too many of them will be “journal-
ists” (and bang the expense!) in the alleged
interests of “the profession”—a profession
which doesn’t pan out £6 a week to 5 per
cent, of them!
* * * *
“MacLessdin” : The Scottish Austral-
asian recently reminded its readers that
George V. owed his crown to his Scottish
ancestry. In its last issue it told a story,
1 presumably in support of that claim. Shortly
after he became king, in the fulness of his
heart George told the laborers on his royal
estates at Deeside that if anything in their
condition needed bettering they should put it
in writing and post it to him straight
away. As they were in receipt of 15s. per
week in winter, and 18s. in summer, less de-
ductions for broken time, and few of
them had more than ten children at home,
and most of them a father or so in the poor-
house, it didn’t seem possible that they could
want for anything. But the varlets asked
for another two bob a week! When George
regained consciousness, he found that the
most he could spring was an extra shilling:
there being 60 pay envelopes affected, it
mearft a drain of £l5O a year on the Royal
purse—less deductions for broken time. Some
Scotch blood in his veins! Surely, after
that, I can claim George, not for a mere rela-
tive, but for a full brither!
From the S. M. Herald (29/7/T1) :
WANTED, a good Chet, foreigner preferred.
Old England Cafe, George Street.
Good Old England, as freetrade and merry
as ever, but franker than usual!
THINGS ARE SOMETIMES
WHAT THEY SEEM.
SHE: “All the Catholic priests
are fat and seem well-fed ,
and the Protestants mostly
look starved. How is that
H E: “ They are.”
The recent conference of the Australian
Journalists’ Association, in Melbourne, did
a lot of good work, but none better than the
removal of that inter-State jealousy which
threatened to do so much damage to jour-
nalistic federation six months ago. In Mel-
bourne the fear was “Sydney domination,”
and in Sydney the cry was, "We’ll he handed
over body and soul to Melbourne.” That
foolishness entirely evaporated after the dele-
gates from N. S. Wales, ATctoria, Queens-
land and South Aus. had been at work on
each other’s views for a couple of days, and
the all-Australian movement is now firmly
established. The next conference will be held
in Sydney early next year, and it will have
some very important business to deal with.
SHE: “I thought that all you artists were
shabby Bohemians. You seem quite re-
spectable.”
HE: “My dear young lady , I can't afford to
be otherwise. One needs a private income
to be a shabby Bohemian."
The Law, whose job is to suppress sweat-
ing, can aim a brick of hard, dry logic some-
times. He was a hairdresser, and one day
last week was making voluminous excuses for
not paying full wages to a man lately “out
of his time,” when the Melbourne P.M.
chipped in: “Did the young man shave?”
“Yes.” “And cut hair?” “Yes.” “And the
customers kept on coming back?” “Yes.”
“Then wliat more do you want?” Order for
the accumulated back wage, with 20s. fine
and costs.
Though the Melbourne property market is
brisk as regard« villas and cottages, the few
big mansions that come under the hammer
draw few bids. Goatldand, built for the late
Mr. liamsden in 1880, and afterwards owned
by the late Malcolm McEacharn, went to
draper Treadway’s widow the other day, at
the slaughter-sale price of £7500. It stands
in a 4|-acre paddock, in one of the finest
positions in Kew, and the land alone is prob-
ably worth £3000; while the building,
with its £3OOO worth of gables, gargoyles,
etc., its carved blackwood hall and staircase,
its parquet flooring and carved dadoes, cost
close up to £25,000.
* * * #
During the Referenda campaign the Vic-
l.,iian cocky papers,
almost to a rag,
screamed “ N o-n o. ”
They mostly said that
their districts didn't
have anything to fear
from monopolies, and,
anyway, trusts and
combines weren’t half
as bad as they were
painted—they mostly
meant cheaper pro-
duction, and the
purchaser gained
even though the
seller did make big
profits. Now some
of those papers are
beginning to won-
der what sort of
fools they were.
In the cocky coun-
try the auction-
sale advts. are the
sweetest plums that
the local papers
have had on their
plate. But the lo-
cal auctioneers are
forming combines,
and already in one
big town, for a
start, they have
notified that they
won’t want any
more of the local
thunderer’s space—
they are going to
advertise only in
their own “official
organ,” which is a
sort of price-list, sent for nix to every
client of the associated firms. And as
that will give the glorified price-list a circu-
lation which the old newspapers can’t ap-
proach, the latter are shivering at the pros-
pective loss of other advts.
White Australia showed a commendably
stiff backbone last week in Victoria. A
Chinaman, Hop Boon Gooey, living at Gee-
long, has been in Australia for 18 years.
Last year he went to China and married.
Mrs. Gooey got permission to come to Aus-
tralia for six months—later on extended to
nine months —-but was to return to China at
the expiry of that time. However, a little
Gooey arrived, and then ma Gooey wanted
to stay longer. A deputation waited on the
Commonwealth Government, apparently to
urge that the lady had claims on Australia
for having presented it with another yellow
inhabitant. But the White Australia Gov-
ernment couldn’t see that that added to the
lady’s claim on tins country; so Mrs. Gooey
has to return to China. And she will take
Gooey, junior—and perhaps papa Gooey, for
there’s no law against tnat.
A QUESTION OF LATITUDE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Patients who die of diseases above the diaphragm
often die full of hope and confidence with regard to
their spiritual prospects. Persons who perish of
diseases below the diaphragm are nearly always
gloomy and despairing in their latter moments.
-— Dr. Oliver Wendell Holmes.
You’ve but little hope of grace
If you’ve been and gone the pace
Till your southern zone in melancholy plight is,
And the doctor tells your wife,
Ere he draws his little knife,
That your trouble’s only just appendicitis—
Just a trifle that they call appendicitis.
Hut in case you weakly wheeze
When the rain is in the breeze,
And catarrh commands the region where your nose is,
You will comfort find in this:
There is every hope of bliss
For the victims of the fell tuberculosis —-
For the men who perish by tuberculosis.
If you feel as if a clam
Underneath your diaphragm
Had got tangled in the tract they christen peptic,
You will perish full of gloom,
And your chance beyond the tomb
Is no better than the outlook for the sceptic—
Than the prospect for a Bible-smashing sceptic.
In disease “above the belt”
There is little worry felt
By the patient re his future, or anxiety ;
But a tumor on the “turn”
Makes the sky look grim and glum,
Irrespective of your conduct or your piety—-
Quite regardless of your morals or your piety.
Would you die a death of cheer,
Science whispers in your ear
“You should choose a set of complications phthi-
sical” ;
For a liver out of gear
Fills your final day with fear
For your outlook in the land beyond the physical—
In the land beyond the physic and the physical.
So it really seems to be
(Though perhaps you’ll not agree)
That your mortal hopes of heavenly beatitude,
For the future of your soul,
Are a question, on the whole,
Of your ultimate diseases and their latitude;
Salvation’s just a matter of the latitude.
QUEENSLAND.
F. BORN.


Keep your Table and
Household linen white
as snow by always
using Sunlight Soap.
DIRECTIONS ROUND EACH TABLET.
NO. GUARANTEED UNDER THS
"PURE FOOD ACT, 1908,”
BY LEVER BROTHERS LIMITED,,
SYDNEY, N.S.W. No. 57.
/
-x
r-i
This Dinner Jacket Suit
in Black Vicuna Cloth
£3131-
THE season is waning when full Evening Dress requires to be
worn, but there are occasions the year round where a man
has use for a Dinner Jacket Suit such as this.
It is absolutely correct in cut —-the material is that most in favor,
whilst the silk roll collar is the latest style feature in this class of
garment.
In ordering by mail, please advise us of your chest and
waist and inside leg measurements.
Price
the Full Suit.
PEAPE.S & CO. LTD.,
“ Men’s
Outfitters,”
309-311 George Street, SYDNEY.
The most exquisite humor of the Corona-
tion comedy was reserved for the inhabitants
of Buckingham Gate and thereabouts, whose
houses command a view of Buckingham Pal-
ace g’rounds. It was there the noble Peers
“cast” for acting parts in the comedy had to
meet for rehearsal. They couldn’t get the
use of the theatre —Westminster Abbey—
where the performance was to take place, so
the king invited them to practise their mum-
ming in his back garden. His Gracious,
being perfect in his own part (he was to
have a final rehearsal with the Archbishop
6f Canterbury at the Abbey, anyhow), didn't
need to be present in royal person at these
garden gatherings; so he was represented by
an understudy. But the Peers came along
personally with their robes and coronets in
brown-paper parcels, or big bags, to go
through their little hereditary parts. Any
“property” swords, gloves and things inci-
dental to the antique coronating ceremony
were provided by the management. The
gravity of the troubled mummers, ruminat-
ing over their duties, and waiting for their
respective cues to step forward and do some-
thing, is said to have been almost as droll as
their lapses from dignity during an interval.
They rehearsed the piece, and then rested
ere rehearsing again. Like workmen knock-
ing off for a smoke-o, they picked up their
robes, tucked the tail under an arm, removed
their coronets, mopped their brows (just
like the bald-headed peers in “lolanthe”),
and sat down anywhere to blow a cloud.
Most of them had a cigar, but the premier
duke —his Grace of Norfolk —filled up a
shabby pipe, and puffed away to the glory of
George until it was time for another re-
hearsal. Then he said “Gents, please,” or
words to that effect, and led his noble com-
rades back to work.
* * * *
The Tasmanian variety of State Insect
is a particularly venomous microbe. The
stodgy old Mercury, once described as
printed in laudanum on sheets of lead, re-
cently came out with an article printed in
sulphuric acid on a slab of dynamite, roast-
ing the Federal Government over its “dis-
loyalty” to George Rex. The trouble was
that the Commonwealth Government wouldn’t
spend a bean on illuminations or decorations
in honor of the Coronation —so different from
the “loyal” State Government, which had
shown its feelings in a proper way. Whereat
an impish member asked a question in Par-
liament, and drew from a reluctant Minister
the information that the Federal Govern-
ment had given the State £333 16s. Bd. to
splash up on Coronating. But instead of
acknowledging that it was the “disloyal”
crowd which was footing the bill, the local
State-insect Government took all the lime-
light that was going, and even stood by while
its principal press barracker threw bricks at
the benefactor.
* * * *
t Among the dusty lumber of Melbourne
University a long-lost casket has been found.
It bears an inscription showing that it was
presented to the Uni. in 1882 by 43 Austra-
lian residents in Britain, “with a list of
subscribers and the original Bill in his own
handwriting for incorporating and endowing
the University, which the then Auditor-Gen-
eral of the colony (Hugh Culling Eardley
Childers) introduced in the Legislative Coun-
cil of Victoria on the 11th January, 1853,
and which became law on the 9th Feby. in
the same year.” The papers within the
casket show that the late Lauchlan Mackin-
non, one of the original proprietors of the
Argus, started a subscription in England to
provide a memorial to Childers, as the actual
founder of the Uni. With the money thus
raised the committee bought the bust of
Childers which is now in the hall.
The “rising of the Court” is a sentence
not often pronounced by Supreme Court
Judges, but it seemed to have been made ex-
pressly for an old farmer of 77, who ap-
peared at the Criminal Sittings in Adelaide
for “shooting with intent to kill.” The prose-
cution made him out an old savage, who had
put about 90 shot into a nice, high-spirited
youth, his neighbor. But, when it came to
his turd to speak, he showed that his land-
lord’s sons had made life a misery for him
and his old wife; when he went to complain
he was “rolled in the mud and kicked; and
the father put him over his knees and
slapped him like a child in the presence of
his sons.” Then the veteran saw red, appar-
ently, and peppered one of the boys with bird-
shot ; after which he repented with equal
vigor, destroyed the gun, shot himself in
four places about the head with a little re-
volver, and had three months in hospital.
The recital left Chief Justice Way—who is
a veteran himself —eloquent with indigna-
tion. He did not think “any man living”
could hold in under the circumstances. If
they happened to himself, well, he hoped he
wouldn’t use a gun ! So the old man was
awarded “the rising,” and the C.J. saw to
it that “the rising” happened very promptly.
# * * *
The monstrous “muff” is doomed. When
the finger-warming contraption grew to the
size of a pantechnicon, the perfect ladies who
have a mania for picking up unconsidered
trifles saw its possibilities; and nowadays
shop spies and detectives are instructed to
pay particular attention to ladies'with out-
size stowaways. In at least two cases within
the last week the fashionable freak has had
painful interviews with the manager; and
the women who saw the start of the pro-
ceedings feel that they would now just as
soon be seen carrying a double-headed penny
or a bunch of skeleton keys.
* * * *
When a squad of Victorian police recently
raided an opium-joint in Lilly Buck-stleet
they were nearly asphyxiated by the awful
atmosphere of the place. The windows hadn’t
been opened, neither had the place been
swept or cleaned out within the memory of
the oldest inhabitant, but the Chows revelled
in it as a sweet reminder of Canton and
Hongkong. Outside it was a somewhat
modern, decent-looking brick building, and,
as the agent’s clerk held his nose when he
called for the rent, nobody suspected it for
a whited sepulchre. This choice breeding-
ground for plague, cholera and other luxuries
was occunied by—the Chinese Progress Asso-
ciation !
* * * *
The Vic. Assembly debate on the Workers’
Compensation Bill produced one bright
phrase. They were talking about the injury
(fatal or otherwise) of the breadwinner,
and the Labor Opposition was urging that
adopted children should be entitled to com-
pensation, when “Liberal” Gray mentioned
the case of husbands who had deserted their
wives and supported other women—and what
about these dependents? Whereupon Peter
Mcßride, who was in charge of the Bill,
promised to consider the matter of the
adopted child, but was afraid he couldn’t do
anything for “the adopted wife.”
THE QUESTION FRIVOLOUS.
“ Wot- O, Muriel! Choosin' a hat!'”
Another glimpse of a census paper. The
precise informant answered the nationality
question thus: “Australian, German con-
sent.”
* * * *
The Moe Swamp (Vic.) farmers are once
more sitting on the roof, glumly watching
“the heaviest flood for years.” The Swamp
is the most flood-haunted place in John-o'-
Yawn’s State, and nearly every winter a
gurgling shriek of distress goes up from the
man with the hoe who defies Nature by at-
tempting to grow turnips and similar mer-
chandise thereabouts. Early last week it
was reported that the people of at least six
homesteads were hemmed in, and that an
oil launch without too much encumbrance
could get a steady job by applying early. A
few cartloads of cash have been emptied into
the Swamp by past Governments, and there
is a proposal on hand to tip another
£26,000 into the drains. The drenched in-
habitants point out with chilled hands that
an outlet for the flood waters should first be
provided at the eastern end of the marsh,
and the Public Works Department is loudly
cursed for not having attended to the job
years ago. It is alleged that, whenever a
man in the Works gets delirious, he is
haunted by a damp and uneasy spirit with
sodden whiskers, which drags a hoe up and
down his bedroom, and howls at intervals
about drainage. It is the ghost of the Moe
farmer who, for lack of the naturally drained
land locked up in Victoria’s big estates, has
been forced to go in for rheumatic agricul-
ture in a wildly expensive bog.
“Phil Harum” : When a wife searches her
husband’s clothes while he sleeps, don’t
accuse her of dishonesty. She may merely
be fond of change.
FUNCTIONAL LIVER TROUBLES are for the
most part the outcome of too little exercise and too
good living. The simplest and best of all remedies
is a wineglassful of “Hunyadi Janos” natural aper-
ient water, taken before breakfast every second or
third morning.
WELL INVESTED.
"You bribed a policeman?”
“Yes, paid him five bob to advise our cook to stay!”
Weird and unexplained advt. in the Ade-
laide dailies of 3/S/Tl, dragging, in the
names of two good citizens, past and present:
THE WIDOW AND THE FATHERLESS.
Will our well-beloved Grandfather, Thomas
Rhodes, stand up with our Honorable John Carr, and
say to the widow: “Take this child and nurse it for
me, and I will give thee thy wages.” And all good
mothers and sisters will love you for ever and ever.
AMEN.
Where is this interference with the liberty
of the subject going to end ? Here is Justice
Joshua Williams (M.L.) deciding that a
man can’t do what he likes with his own,
even when he’s dead. It was his own chil-
dren and his own money that John Glasgow,
of Marton, was dealing with when he made
a will before his death last year. He left
a good bit to worry over; but an invalid son,
who needs an attendant all the time, only
got an annuity of £BO for life, and the Jus-
tice broke the Injustice’s will so far
as to give the invalid £3 a week. Which
is a pretty sort of a thing for a man to do
who has just been made a knight!
Determined efforts are being made to push
a St. Mary’s R.C. College into existence at
Melbourne University. Archbishop Carr re-
ferred to the matter at the recent opening of
a new school at Elsternwick, and said he was
informed that £20,000 would be needed for
building and £20,000 for endowment. Upon
this the Rev. Mangan, who has become
prominent in driving Upward the Newman
Club, makes a stirring address, claiming that
£7OOO would be enough to start with. He
recalls that the Anglican Trinity College and
the Wesleyan Queen’s College started with-
out any endowment at all. The site for the
building is ready and waiting. Fifty-seven
years ago the Government reserved spaces at
the University for the Anglicans, R.C.’s,
Presbyterians and Methodists, and only the
Catholics have failed to swallow their slice.
It is an absurd business, this division of the
students into Metliody and Presbyterian and
Catholic packs; but, as the other little sects
have their kennels to bark in, it may be
taken for granted that the one big crowd
which now has to learn how to bark in some-
body else’s kennel will go the way of the
others, and get a hutch of its own.
“Lud”: The hundreds of thousands who
have seen the Coronation biograplis in Aus-
tralia marvel most at the absence of crowds.
“Where are the people?” is the almost uni-
versal query. All the London papers, from
the Times downwards, note the thin attend-
ance. Seven million people in London, they
say, and so few on the route of the proces-
sion ! The biographs showed double lines of
soldiers, and in many places only a single
row of populace behind. The Times men-
tions the absolute dismay with which the
authorities noticed the failure of the crowds
to turn up. Barriers had been erected every-
where. and there was nobody to rush them ;
notices had been fixed in thousands of places
for the guidance of throngs, and the throngs
never appeared; immense preparations had
been made at railway stations, and police,
soldiers and railway hands said, “It is like
the quietest of Sundays.” At Westminster
Abbey it was the same; dress circle and
stalls were all there, but no pit or gallery. It
is the most luridly significant thing about the
whole show.
Wild’s Hairdressing Rooms, 30 Upstairs,
Sydney Arcade, Georye and King Streets, Sydney, is the
proper place to go if you want the best of attention.
Electric head and face massage done in the latest
American style. Hours of business : 8.30 to 6.30 ; Satur-
day close at 1 o’clock.*
OVERBOARD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Four of the crew were washed overboard and
frowned during a gale near the Cape.— Shipping
Now there’s four hands less to work her home!
(Pull together and watch the sea!)
Down they went in a smother of foam!
("Jump there! Jump for your lives!” says he)
Put he roared too late, like a d—d big bull,
io we’re four hands short, and it’s “ Pull, there!
Pull !’■
It takes some pullin’ to shift these yards!
(Pull together and watch the sea!)
Twas only last night we played at cards;
And Bill says “Make it spades,” says he.
But he don’t want none, for his grave is full,
And he’s done for good with this “Pull, there!
Pull !’-
Four of ’em gone and their work to do !
(Pull together and watch the sea!)
Scotty and Bill and the Wand’rin’ Jew
Gone with Hans to Eternity! . . .
1 hey’re a d—d fine crew, and they’ll rip the wool
Off the angels’ backs with their “Pull, there ! Pull!”
n.s.tv.
GABO.


jh Ye 2krr’iVaJ
oj' iA ve* Ca° v '
I If the entry of the new Gov.-General
1 into Melbourne lost a little of that im-
pressiveness which is furnished by the
concentration of great masses of people,
it had popular advantages which fully
compensated forthe loss .—Dally paper
J)*M y hoc S'<-K
-ft*. ov'er
J ADDRfff
I Of /
Welcome/
fA E>c€lUocyTfoi'l^ > is
yCo*k oj- j&ofle. .
I (jor>s't& v ble sore tbxfe of
e»v> ; y er /J
* “Mrs. Annie Besant, the well-known
authoress, said that Indians claimed free-
dom to live in white men’s countries.
It was monstrous that while whites
claimed the best-paid posts in a colored
man’s country, they claimed the right to
shut the colored man out of the white
man’s country ’’
TWi n S l 'p A X+ :
N, FVcW WUN» To -his fW” p osrh u
*-, A W x n r -to lew on wy
V a °” b Zr so noaJien.-h&s V*
!**>* o»
Nearly all our councils arq strongholds
of laissez faire. The councillors, for the
most part, are men of advanced years and
settled interests Their minds are
crusted over with antique prejudices and
wholly impervious to new ideas —Age
PowwTtu wifi f (f
i e Lo?le wl.wt' $ '
of Councilors not <W feT ||
“ For they hurried to their noble work '
bearing the insignia of ruthless murder
and orphanage fastened in their hair and
ostentatiously displayed upon their
gentle bosoms. How many helpless fledg-
lings had starved to death in their nests
owing to the destruction of the parent
birds, whose pretty feathers made that
ballroom and those charitable females
gay?”
pA°A. . \
\ \
Ac /
| ( 'Tfye Aoc. re"biAKcs
lyAiet rece n'T'/"
' b&llj
b M
"tr> Q rece*>‘ PC*'- \
"> **’ f<^ ,r dinKom +8
•fhe f* "»*!«• *o> -$« o«>} fex&e*-headed set-
The company might suffer to some ex-
tent and for some little time as a grower
of sugar in Australia, but would probably
soon adapt itself to the changed circum-
stances by extending its already large
interests in Fiji, where, it is important to
remember, the industry is not conducted
on an artificial basis, and is not subject to
threats of political interference — Argus.
T&c C°- . full me °\\
£f I'll <po -[or 1l)e v/hcvc.
Mast>y is not CO oh 2\rf.pc i^T
Ays*! is not" sybjec't'f'o •tfpeAv+s of
f>olitTc6yl interference.
VIC. AND VARIOUS.


Lewis & \V hi tty's Harness Dressing
(BLACK OR TAN)
Gives a brilliant finish, preserves and nourishes Buggy
or Motor Hoods, Harness, Leggings and all Leather Goods.
LEWIS & WHITTY, MELBOURNE and SYDNEY. [3
McKENZIE’S EXCELSIOR BAKING POWDER.
Diamonds Reduced
Enormously !
For six months we will offer Diamonds in Rings and
Pendants and Jewellery generally at prices never before
attempted in Australia.
WHY ?
Well, we have undertaken a Sole Agency that calls
for an enormous output, and we have to live up to it, and
so we are offering all Diamond goods at merely a com-
mission on the actual cost.
It will pay us, because of the advertisement and the
increase of customers.
Fairfax Roberts,
The Oldest Jewellery House In Sydney,
23 Hunter Street.
Plain Figures Cash.]
Selected Diamonds and
Whole Pearls, £B/8/-
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
THE GLORIOUS FOURTH.
Sense me (hie), Miss;
do you keep three-star
spangled brandy (hie)?"
“Wee Waa”: Self, mate and carthorse re-
cently watched as good a fight as I would wish to
see. Two large buck hares were so intent on settling
an argument that we drove up and stopped about 35
yards from them, apparently unnoticed. Another
interested spectator, who circled around the fighters,
was a third hare, presumably a doe, so I suppose the
trouble was over the same old Cause. The fight was
of the fast and furious order, and lasted about two
minutes. Each seemed intent on gripping the other
4. x. i 8 •!
underneath, and, except when leaping to avoid pun-
ishment, crouched low, and tried to get his head
under his opponent. Large flakes of white fur caught
the wind at intervals, showing that the “go” was no
schlenter. Suddenly all three hares made for the
timber as if that was the onlv thing in life worth
worrying about. Don’t know what the decision was,
but I think Snowy Baker would have declared it a
( j raw
“Boswell”: The retort courteous. The
lawyer occupied the ground floor; overhead was the
dentist. A timid man, with a dolorous look, entered
the chambers and tapped at the solicitor’s door, en-
quiring if the dentist “lived there.” “Oh! if its
the tooth-puller you want, you’ll find him upstairs.
“H’m, beg pardon. I remember my directions now.
I was to pass by the leg-puller’s office and find the
dentist upstairs.”
* * * *
“Yalgun” : The butcher bird must have a
place among the birds that kill snakes (B. 20/7/’ll).
There is a brown hawk on the North Coast that
accounts for a number of Eve’s friends, too. I have
seen him carry a 2ft. brown snake up on a tree, push
its head ’neath a splinter on a limb, and leave it
there, twisting and squirming, until some future
dining hour. As to that arch impostor, the kooka-
burra, I believe the only snakes he kills are corpses.
1 have many times seen Jack fly away with a snake
some traveller had killed and thrown across a wire
fence, but have never seen him take a live one on.
He deals in dead snakes and live chickens.
* * * *
“Yalgun” : Does any other Aboliar know
the address of a man who lived after his own funeral ?
D'ckie, of Tooloom station (N.S.W.), after being
“buried” in the orthodox nigger style, sheets of bark
over the corpse, turned up next morning at the
camp for breakfast, remarking: “My word, plenty
feller wurring (cold) down longa hole.” Dickie had
got his second wind after the punch that looked like
a knock-out, but wasn’t.
* * * *
“The Lyre”: Arrived at Bill’s tent the
other night, just in time to hear his voice raised
more in anger than in sorrow. “Ycr mean, low
cow!” he cried. “There yer go, renegged again. I’ll
be blanked if I play any more; y’ can go to ” )
“What’s the row, Joe?” I called out as I entered, I
curious to know who the other party was. There
was no other party. He explained that he was play-
ing the parson euchre; himself left hand and the
parson right, and, even with that advantage, “the
blanky Wowser wouldn’t follow suit.” I suggested
that he should play the Bishop, but he said they
were all the (usual) same, and threw the cards into
the corner. He was wild.
# * # *
The fox has worked in so close to Ade-
laide that passengers in the Gjlenelg suburban train
lately had a front seat for the spectacle of one of
him worrying a flock of sheep, within four, miles of
the G.P.O.
* * # *
“Kodak’s” tale of a Zoo: —
The damage was done in a second. Linton, whilst
drawing a plan of the mine on the bar counter,
found a sheet of newspaper in his way. “Who does
this belong to?” he said, and, throwing it on the
floor, turned to complete his plan. A quiet little old
man, with red-rimmed eyes, sprang up with a cry
of dismay. “Oh-h-h! you’ve mixed ’em all up!”
he moaned, and dived for the paper.
“Mixed what up ?” asked Linton.
“My specimens,” said the little man, resentfully,
lie straightened out the paper, and laying it flat on
the far corner of the bar, started to sort out invisible
things.
The publican winked loudly, and whispered:
“After th’ third day he begins to collect his museum.
He’s a tidy little man, and ’tis his custom to arrange
them on a piece of newspaper. Don’t mind him;
he’ll get th’ lot straightened out agin in no time.”
The crowd was prepared, to let it go at that. But
a superior investing person, of great bulk, who had
been brooding alone over whiskies and
sodas for three days of incessant rain, was
shocked to the marrow by the publican’s
revelation.
“Do you mean to sav that this old man
sits here and collects D.T.’s all day while
gentlemen are drinking?” He blew out
his cheeks at the landlord and pulled his
tweed cap down over his eyes.
“He does no harm at all, sir,” pleaded
the landlord.
“But, damme, man, it’s not right! I
—I object to this sort of thing. Ilyah,
some of you men ! Get this old man out
of the bar! Put him in the parlor or
somewhere!”
Overawed by the investor’s manner,
Jones and another approached the col-
lector, and assisted the
puzzled old fellow to his
feet; Brown lifted the
museum with exquisite
care; Smith appointed
himself beer-holder, and
took up the half-empty
glass ; Harrison opened the
door. All that was left
for Simpson to do was to
pick up the little man’s
hat and put it on his head.
“In the back parlor,
sir?” asked Jones in a re-
spectful way.
The sombre magnate
looked the dazed prisoner
over. Suddenly he
started arid jabbed a
fat finger at his hat.
“Take that off!”
Simpson snatched
off the headgear.
“No! Take the
thing off the hat !”
Simpson turned
the clean old • felt
over in his hands.
“Wot thing?” he
muttered sullenly.
“What thing!”
(The gloomy one
snluttered indig-
and fl'cked
his fingers in an
agonv of impati-
ence.) “The — the
yellow snake, you
fool!’-
Brown rose to
the occasion. Put-
ting down the pa-
per he grabbed the
hat-phantom and
dropped it with
the others. “Yeller
snake pre-sented by
th’ .gent in the
. ~ , cap!” he shouted
j l } little man s ear, as the others hastily pushed
Thedonor of snake dragged his cap right
over his eyes with a trembling hand. “Blasted
cheek! . . Rotten country! . . . Suppose there
aren’t any yellow snakes in the d—d place!”
* * * *
Slaughterers of aboriginal fauna at The
Meadows, in the hills behind Adelaide, report with
i it ±. xu • , , . .
modest pride that they have invented an aeetvlene-
;
principle, by which ’possums can be “mooned”
even on dark nights. So the harmless beast is
liable to lose his skin all through the month, instead
0 f f u n_ mo on onlv, and is likely to be pretty
~ , , . . ,
thoroughly exterminated in fame At present, how-
ever’ he « ” r 0U K S “ OU S h to be a real nuisance,
even in Adelaide suburbs.
Murphy owned about SOOO acres, and got
about Bd. worth of pleasure out of life, unless starv-
ing those who worked for him was a pleasure. To
do a big fencing job he had employed a number of
casuals, and personally saw to it that they strictly
confined their attention to the work in hand. Riding
down one morning to inspect operations, he found
one man greasing the wheel of a barrow. “What
are ye doin’ there?” he roared. “Greasin’ the
wheelbarrow.” “Well, git to blazes outer this,” cried
Murphy. “What the do YOU know about
machinery ?”
THE PERFECT
GENTLEMAN.
THIRTY TRAVELLER
(after to weary
miles) : "I takes
off me 'at to
yer!"
LICENSE To SELL
DY.HAMITE
DO ISON AND
COLONIAL WINES
“Rufus Rechabite”: Can any reliable
Aboliar tell me how to cure a bee of kleptomania?
I have a whole swarm that raids an adjacent con-
fectionery faotory daily, and makes a George Reidian
banquet on caramels and Turkish delight. I don’t
like to interfere with Private Enterprise, but the re-
sultant honey is bright red, and the public seems to
have a prejudice against honey that blushes for the
burglar that made it.
“Kobbi”: Lantana, one of Bananaland’s
many curses, has had another crime laid at its door.
This time the Government vet., in investigating the
cause of pinknose among cattle round Townsville,
points an accusing finger at the shrub. By the way,
I had a look in at Yeppoon (Q.) the other day,
where they once grew sugar. It struck me on my
tenderest all-Australian spot that some places grow
backwards. Lantana everywhere, and thick and tall.
A shake could scarcely crawl through it, while some
of the rain-clouds just brushed the top.
* * * *
“W.C.M.”: I reckon I’ve met absolutely
the champion new-chum. Set him to work to make
a bridge over an old mining race, so that I could
take a horse and cart that way. Gave him instructions
how to put saplings across, then leafy branches, and
dirt on top. Game along to see how the work was
progressing, and saw him spreading newspapers over
the branches “to keep the dirt from falling
through!”
“Arcarlo”: A few days after her baby is
born, the Malaitan (Solomon Islands) mother goes
back to her work in the gardens with the piccaninny
slung on her hip. If not fed to the sharks or pigs,
these piccaninnies seem to do very well, in spite of
the filth they live in. As children their cruelty in
play is indescribable. I positively know an in-
stance in which they held a feast with one of their
playmates for meat. They killed him in Solomon
Islands fashion, viz., with a chop over the head
with a kill-kill, or Island axe, wrapped him round
with fathoms of green lawyer-vine and roasted him.
Their torture of
dumb things is
atrocious, and
is encouraged
by the m en.
Punishment of
the children is
usually meted
out by the
heads of the
tribe, and con-
sists of sending
them into the
scrub for so
many days and
nights. If they
die there, no-
body seems to
care. They are
very clever at
training cor-
morants to fish
for them, and
thus secure
food “on their
own.” On the
coast they early
learn to swim,
and they count
the sharks as
good spirits,
having ab-
solutely no
fear of them
when they are
in numbers. But
no Solomon Is-
lander will ven-
turn into the
water when a
single shark is
prowling ar-
ound ; he is a
bad devil-devil,
who is either
mad or who has
been driven
away by his fellows. I have “shot” fish with dyna-
mite, and watched the natives and sharks bust-
ling each other for the stunned fish, and no one was
bitten. In spite of the popular belief that it is
betel-nut chewing that blackens the Solomon
Islander’s teeth, I know to the contrary. The sooti-
ness is produced by a native concoction, of which
ground charcoal forms the basis; the idea is that
white teeth form a conspicuous mark in a fight. I
know plenty confirmed betel-chewers with “sets” that
any English smile-actress would envy.
A DESPERATE POSITION.
MR. W AYBACK: "There was one time I got
bucked off 40 miles out from anywhere, and
couldn't catch my horse again.”
MISS B LOCK: "Oh, how very annoying! And
I suppose you had to take a cab all the way
home?”
“Kaylee” : “G.L.C.” forgot to mention that
the pelican shot on the Coorong, and found to sur-
round no less than 300 small fish (B. 20/7/’ll), also
contained the skeletons of two aborigines and a Jus-
tice of the Peace. It had, moreover, eaten its own
h a t and swallowed everything that had ever ap-
peared in the Aboriginality columns.
THE PIONEER AND HIS SHIRT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Though through the week we toil away on tin-dog,
round or square,
With tin-dog in our post-’n’-rail, and all that we can
bear
Of tin-stuff, three tough meals a day (it’s all that
we can get) ;
Though damper be our portion, since the baker is not
yet;
Though we who lead the van to-day lead hard and
lonely lives,
We’ll racket on tin-oyster when pay-Saturday ar-
rives ;
And later on, when Sabbath breaks, a peaceful pool
we’ll seek,
And wash our shirts, all Sunday, in the pleasant,
placid creek.
Each day we go where hard cash waits, upon some
roughish track,
And graft the morning through till dear old tin-dog
calls us back,
At crib-time, to the camp-fire and the ragged tin
once more,
To wolf the same old fare that we’ve so often wolfed
before;
But when the week is done we’ll see the Sabbath
ushered in
With wild bush-beer, and smoke, and song, anil oyster
from the tin....
And there’s a peaceful interlude ahead of us, each
week—
We wash our shirts, all Sunday, down the cool and
shady creek.
On Sunday, when pay-Saturday is past, with all its
beer,
Tin-oyster, fights and language, and all manner of
good-chcer,
We sit beside the creek, among the butterflies, and
laze
Beneath green boughs of grateful shade, and watch
the sunshine blaze
Among the crystal ripples, thinking on the beer we
bought;
We hail the smiling, splendid morn; and, with a
passing thought.
We bless our Outback freedom from the Monday-
morning beak,
What time we smoke. .. .and think... .and wash our
clobber in the creek.
VICTORIA.
FRANK HENTY.
THE NIGHT BEFORE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Draw the blinds, and pull the curtains,
Keep from me the morning light;
For my brain is dull and throbbing
From the revels of the night.
Tell me, what’s that stain of crimson
There upon the bed-sheets white?
Why, it’s blood! —My face is bleeding!
So there must have been'-a fight!
Ah, of course ! Now I remember !
We were seated at the game,
With the others gathered round us,
When lie spoke a lady’s name.
What he said I can’t remember:
’Twas an insult vile, I know ;
But the blackguard never finished,
For I stopped him with a blow.
Hook and counter, rush and rally,
Swinging blows that clove the air;
Till they parted us, and bore me
Limp and bleeding to my chair.
Ah! the words he spoke! I hear them,
Ringing like the bell of doom;
As I stagger to my mirror,
Which is whirling round the room.
Yes, I know I’ll >lose my billet.
See, my eye is turning green!
What he said was, “Hard luck, Harry—
Beaten by a measly Queen!”
N.S.W.
J. C. WILSON.


What is a patent? Can it be obtained for any
number of years ? Which would be the most suit-
able countries for exploiting my invention? Can I
obtain a provisional patent? How long does it en-
dure? Can I apply for a patent after I have sold
one of the articles? Ilow must I mark it when
patented ? Is it true that anybody can make an in-
vention for his own private use? These and other
questions are frequently addressed to patent at-
torneys Phillips Ormonde, 266 Flinders St. (eleva-
tor) Melbourne.*
Carters
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS.
Constipation
Vanishes For Ever
Prompt Relief Permanent Curo.
CARTER’S LITTLE LIVER PILLS
never ’ fail. Purely vegetable—act
surely but gently on the liver. Stop
after-dinner distress—cure indigestion
—improve the complexion—brighten
the eyes.
Small Pill, Small Dose, Small Price.
GENUINE must bear Signature
I
I
A.N.A. Secretary writes:
“ It is astonishing how little
we know of our own in=
dustries. I shall always use
CALDWELL’S INKS in future.”
PLASNION COCOA
“ A Delicious Beverage of much greater
nutritive value than ordinary Cocoa."
—British Medical Journal.
PLASMON IS USED BY THE ROYAL FAMILY.
Australian Depot: 5& 7 Barrack St., Sydney.
The Royal Hotel,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Most centrally situated Hotel in Sydney.
Best place to lunch and dine in town.
J. W. COCKBAINE, Proprietor.
. “ Bill y Bluegum”: The lyre-bird’s mound
isn t a worm patch; it’s a music-hall, “Pick” not-
sending. I' l South Gippsland, where the bird
abounds, acres of forest soil, tom up by its powerful
claws, plainly prove where its breakfast comes from,
itie mound is used exclusively by the male bird, and
mat only during winter and early spring, as the
neglected mouikls throughout the remainder of the
year show. To watch this king of mocking-birds
pirouetting on his carefully-kept dancing-floor, with
his gorgeous tail spread forward over his back, while
he sings his own song, and follows it up with a
lengthy repertoire of those of other birds, is a better
J.C.W. ever offered. The lyre’s treatment
of the screeehings of a flock of parrakeets flying
overhead is a superb reproduction; but I have never
heard one attempt the ha-hooing of the kookaburra,
nor has anyone else that I have asked. Shy, and re-
markably keen of vision, it is a difficult matter to
gain admission to the private rehearsals of these
song-and-dance artists, especially as the mounds are
almost invariably built in the thickest jungle of cat-
head or bracken fern. At sight of an intruder the
songster closes his portfolio and retires silently and
in haste, while his harems flap round in the scrub
and screecii hideously. The missus has no fine tail
to lose, and apparently knows it; also she has no
song and no powers of mimicry. The female lays
but one egg, in about a cartload and a-half of rub-
bish, and if disturbed when on the nest, never re-
turns.
*_* * *
“Phoenix”: Those who know the dense
scrub on the Northern Rivers, but more especially in
Queensland, don’t need to be told of the excruciating
pain caused by contact with the stinging-tree. The
slightest touch means torture. The vegetable, from
sft. to 10ft. high, resembles a dvvarf mulberry, ex-
cept that the leaves are of a brighter green and
larger; they are soft and inflocent-looking, and
coated with a smooth, downy substance, which gives
them the appearance of plush velvet. The trunk is
about 6in. or 9in. in diameter, and one blow with an
axe through the soft, pithy substance is enough to
fell it. But stand from under, or jump clear when
it falls ! It is shunned by every living thing except
cattle, and, strange to say, the leaves are greedily
eaten by them. Cows coil their tongue round the
juicy leaves, and lick their chops in evident enjoy-
ment. Can any wise man of the jungle explain why
the cursed vegetable treats the cow so kindly while
it serves every other living thing so unkindly?
* * * *
“Tamumu” : The alleged increase of 1000
in the Maori population of the Borrowing Baronet’s
Dominion, mentioned by “Curse o’ Maori” (B.
29/6/’ll), may be taken too seriously. In the last-
previous census, a lonely pa in the wilds of Taupo
sent in returns showing a population of close on 400.
This made the enumerator sit up and scratch his
head. I nlfss the wahines had succeeded in breaking
all birth-rate records, or Rua, the prophet, with his
retinue of wives, had pitched his tent there, the
thing was impossible. In consequence, a sub-
enumerator—whom I won’t further identify—was
sent to examine this go-ahead Maori township and
report. On investigation, he found that the boss
Henare of the pa was a humorist, who had caused
every horse, dog, cat, hen and poaka to be invested
with a resounding Maori title, and duly entered in
the returns. The exact human population was 35.
Since then I haven’t had much faith in Maori statis-
tics.
* * * *
“T.J.M.” : Does anybody handy know the
grub that is killing the boree tree ini such quantities
this year ? Or, better still, does anybody know a
defence or a remedy that I can forward to the boree,
which is a particular friend of mine since the 1902
drought, when thousands of starving stock were saved
by its foliage? At first, during that drought, squat-
ters used to chop the branches down, but the trees
assaulted promptly passed in their roots. So the plan
of threshing down the leaves with a whip of wire
was adopted, and that treatment merely produced a
more luxurious growth of hair. The clusters of grubs
that have recently formed nests along the branches,
have, however, once more smitten boree in his most
vulnerable place, which seems to be from his toenails
upward.
UNION RATES.
BERNSTEIN (to street musician): "How much
for "God Shave ze King'?"
STREET MUSICIAN: "Sixpence for a shave,
thrippence for a haircut."
“The Colt” : Is the lady magpie a flirt—-
or worse? On my Mallee selection lived a pair of
magpies. They were a respectable old couple, till
Mi. Magpie got foul of a trap, and broke his leg. I
released him, set the broken limb in light splints, and
let him go. Next day there was Sheol to pay at the
nest. Mrs. Magpie had another hubby, and the two
were playing jiu-jitsu with No. 1. The deposed
bird, handicapped by a broken leg, retired, an easy
loser. The new couple kept house for about a fortnight,
when Sheol again broke loose at the family tree.
This time hubby No. 1 (with mended leg) and Mrs.
Magpie knocked feathers out of No. 2. Since then,
peace has ruled. No. 1 is himself again, and No. 2
lives on another selection. I hate to think ill of a
lady; but —well,'what does the jury say?
A NEEDED RESPITE.
MRS. BUMPLE: “Ah! how I love to hear the roaring of the waves! "
MR. BUMPLE: "So would I, my dear , if you'd only stop talking .”
* Wang’ : I reckon good Australians
should put the hard face against this alleged
“friendly” bush animal or bird foolery. None of
them are friendly, any more than the Fat man, the
bum, the beer-sparrer, and other loafers. All they
want is to let somebody else graft for them, and
provide as much good tucker as possible, while they
take it easy, and enjoy life on a full bingy. If there
is going to be any special boom and limelight, let us
turn it off the degenerates, and on to. the healthy
little bushies who don’t have to be told to get
work.
* * * *
“The Tramp” : I tumbled, some time ago,
to the fact mentioned by “Ah” (B. 20/7/’ll) that
the swaggie nowadays isn’t likely to find triumphal
arches erected, nor brass bands playing, nor even a
“Welcome” on the doormat. Even where it is still
the rule to pass up rations to the traveller it is
done with a frigid air; and, worse still, sometimes
when he offers to graft for a bit of tucker his offer
is accepted. But I am glad to say. I have been
luckier a-wheel than “Ah” evidently has been. If
he tries it again, and casually mentions that he’s
pushing on to So-and-Sobillv, where lie’s got a job
with a mate, he’ll usually find a square meal provided,
and an offer of a job can always be sorrowfully de-
clined because the mate is expecting him. The bike
seems to lend an air of business, which lifts a man
right out of the swaggie class. Of course it has its
disadvantages, as “Ah” says. But he is no true phil-
osopher. He evidently rides in the face of stiff head
winds. Why? The wind would drop in a day or
two, surely. And even on bad bush tracks that were
unrideable, I’ve found it easier to push the swag on a
bike than to hump it.
* * * *
“J.D.K.Z.” : I think I have produced a new
kind of snake, and hasten to give Aboliars first in-
formation. It occurred this way. Last week, when
walking through the scrub, with a spade on my
shoulder, I saw two snakes—a tiger and a black—
engaged in a terrific combat. They were too busy
to notice me, so I jabbed them with the steel, cut-
ting them into about 4in. pieces. Passing along
the same track next day, I saw what appeared to be
two new kinds of snakes crawling away, and on
closer examination I discovered that they were the
same two, but that, in joining up the pieces, they
had got them mixed. Do you think I had better teil
them about it, or is it likely that they will notice
it themselves?
* * * *
“Dano”: Re “Dobbie’s” statement (B.
20/7/’XI) that Zeehan is the only “white” township
he knows of in Australia. Count in Menzies (W.A.),
too. Some years ago ■it confessed shamefacedly to
two Jap laundries and , numerous ’Ghan camel-drivers.
But the local miners’ union got busy, and estab-
lished a “white” laundry, in charge of the widow of
a late member. Bill D!orite supported it enthusiasti-
cally, and the Japs were anted in one round. They
haven’t been seen ■ since. The ’Ghan camel-drivers
also disappeared, and the smelly “ship” is now steered
into port by whites. Of course, Menzies has a few
Binghis; but W.A. hasn’t exterminated her natives as
the Speck did, so that doesn’t count—except on the
credit side of the ledger.
“Nomad”: Has any Abo naturalist
noticed Mrs. Turkey carrying her baby on her back?
Haven’t seen it mentioned, nevertheless it is a fact that
the youngster takes a strong neekhold and aeroplanes
aiong when camp is being shifted, or when, as some-
times happens, immense distances are being covered
for feed.
F.F.M. . Apropos Binglii’s picturesque
way of putting things. Jacky and his cobber were
knocking about the humpy, while Bill and I were
unpacking our tucker supplies. Rill uncovered the
whisky bottle. “What dat pfeller?” queried the cob-
ber of Jacky. “Oh, him good stuff. Make it a
pfeller feel glad quick.”
* * * *
“Mallarapoonie,” on behalf of the cook
Can any Bulletin reader settle, once and for all
(1) whether the fitsh of a poisoned animal is injuri-
ous if eaten, (2) whether any poisons affect the
flesh of the creature spifflicated, (3) which poisons’
Have known pigs to consume with impunitv the car-
cases of poisoned sheep, and have seen dogs habitually
fed with phospliorised rabbit. Also, have had ocular
demonstration that strychnine-poisoned dog won’t
kill blackfellows, or even make them feel” unwell
Among the cattle stations of the North-West Terri-
tory and Carpentaria country it is customary to
have periodical poisonings-off of blackfellows’ dogs
Out there, every six or eight months, the blacks’ big
camps are visited during the weird hours of some
moonless night by a despicable cattleman, who, with
a bag of baits on h's shoulder, passes among the
burnt-out camp-fires and ragged grass wurlies, and
sows strychnine to right and left, like a husbandman.
No sound is heard ; neither dog nor human stirs. Only
the eternal acrid stench is active —it climbs on the
still night air to the shuddering stars. Next morning
there is anything up to a score of defunct mongrels
lying round, and the atmosphere is full of wailing and
the gnashing of native dialect. The blacks generally
attribute these visitations to the Occult (or its
equivalent), and the tribal witch-doctor usually has
a busy forenoon of it. For several days after a
successful dog-poisoning ra'd the natives don’t show
up at the station in quest of meat. They hate to
see victuals wasted.
* * * *
“Kobbi”: The Australian bush breeds
some queer pests. Dry spells in Central Bananaland
have driven the scrub turkey out of his usual beat, and
a farmer at Wycarbah showed me the result —some
potatoes with the innards eaten right out. Large
patches had thus been destroyed. The turkeys visit
the place either early in the morning or at dusk—
they come in dozens. In the 1900 drought the same
insects made things so warm for a farmer I knew
there that he finally “chucked it,” and went where
he never saw a turkey except on Sunday.
* * * *
“Billcow”: A fox takes some licking in
an endurance test which means eternity for the loser.
On Port Willunga (S.A.) cliffs saw five men outside
a fox’s hole. Reynard was inside with a trap on his
leg. He’d been there four days and nights without a
glimpse of menu or wine list. The men did sentry
work alternately. Now and then they inserted a wire
hook at the end of a long pole, and occasionally got
hold of the fox, but he always managed to unhook
himself. You could hear him working inside as if
he had a contract to dig . clean through the globe in
seven days. * After the fifth day three sentries
mutinied and the whole army disbanded less than
24 hours later. Presumably, the fox then came out
to look for a restaurant.
LODGE NIGHT.
“Waratali” : The west coast of Tassy has
a sure bird in the weather-prophet business —a smali
brown fowl, of unobtrusive plumage, living mostly
in the jungle, and, I think, a bird of passage. It
appears to arrive in early spring, and leave again
in late autumn, and its agitated, cry is the best tip
I know to “smoke” for home. I have never heard its
forecast sounded in the winter, which makes me think
it is a migrant, although, perhaps, recognising the
utter uselessness of uttering warnings at a time when
28 wet days happen per month, it is then a mute.
* * * *
“Geofred”: Was chopping wood. Felt a
sharp pain on the right arm. Discovered a big “red-
back” spider. Annihilated it. Pain left for awhile.
Returned in 20 minutes. Arm became swollen.
More painful than listening to a speech by Calamity
Wade, V.C. A few poultices settled the poison.
Likewise the pain. Now want to know what amount
of covering, short of a suit of mail, would stop the
sting of these “red-backs.” At the time bitten,
arm was covered by , sleeves of following, gar-
ments: (1) Woollen singlet, (2) linen shirt, and (3)
fairly thick tweed coat. Spider’s arrow penetrated
them all, and rang the bell. I paid.
GUMP’S DISMAL DOG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Gump was the bald and dismal man
Who used to live next door;
One night to wild Afghanistan
He fled for evermore.
But, ere he wept, by 1 candle-light,
He laid on me a trust:
“I fly!” he hissed. “I fly to-night!
And take my dog you must!
“He is a good and faithful beast,
And never barks at all;
Upon your rubbish he will feast
And guard your yard and hall.
“But promise me you’ll never give
The noble brute away!
My creditors I may outlive;
Then I’ll return some day.
“And, oh, my friend, if I should jog
Back to this well-loved part,
And find no trace of my dear dog—
Ah, it would break my heart!”
He wrung my hand and climbed the fence;
The beast came shuffling in ;
It breathed one gusty sigh immense,
And nosed the rubbish-bin.
On cosy bags I dumped the beast,
To make my meaning plain ;
It . sighed ere I my grip released,
Then rose and sighed again.
“Well, don’t!” I cried, and sought relief
Indoors with social chat;
Throughout the night Gump’s Hound of Grief
Sighed loudly on the mat.
There in the dark it sat and sighed,
Until I got the hump ;
It was qs if the sad thing cried,
“What have you done with Gump?”
“Lie down, O Grief! I do not know!”
With that I threw a sack ;
I saw its ghostly eyeballs glow;
It sighed, “Will he come back?”
“Of course, Unhappy Beast!” I lied,
And thought that I was rid
Of it for good. But straight it sighed—
“ Where is the body hid?”
“’Twill soon cheer up, this Beast Absurd!”
I breathed, when dawn was nigh ;
I slept.... When I awoke I heard,
First thing of all, a sigh!
I rushed and kicked that Skin of Sighs—-
Kicked it with frightful force;
It gazed with moist, reproachful eyes,
find sighed at me—of course.
I stuff the thing with dainties rare;
Each night its bed is made;
But from the mat it asks me where
Gump’s battered corpse is laid.
I hated Gump. I hate his hound,
Yet to it I must cling,
For exiled Gump may yet call round
And ask me for the thing.
So, while the long nights wax and wane,
I sit inside and fret;
The Beast sighs on like some insane
Gas-engine of Regret.
N.S.W.
KODAK.


Cairo, Thursday. A tramway strike
of a serious character here has led to
riots. The police relentlessly sabred the
rioters, who replied with stones and
some revolver-shots. Thirty persons
were injured, including several police.
A number of cars were wrecked. Cable.
For full particulars see hieroglyphics
above (to the right of the lockup/ by
our own Egyptian correspondent.
the independent party ON its wav to the country
** ~ *»— « «~vs:
At a recent Chamber concert the per-
formers screened themselves off from the
audience and turned down the lights.
Was this modesty or a precaution against
’art bricks ?
BETWEEN the oevil. and
the ueep SEA.
Two Submarines were detected
by «« aviator from » height of
when three miles out at
sea.
.! Mt'i’Hant prospects for the
fCiug*« Navee of the future!
PORTABLE school, buildinos.
“ The problem of erecting school
building* in small, scattered centres
has always," says the Minister for
übhc Instruction, “been a difficult
one with this Department. The Depart
"r belfeves U,at il solved this
w£T2?:r * i r ection ° fwo ‘ lde " structures
to «oi;Cr» y removed ,rom ° ne
CARTOONLETS.


GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
WORLD-FAMED
For
QUALITY
HATS.
For
DURABILITY.
Australian football, judging from the car-
nival now proceeding in Adelaide, seems to be
rapidly kicking itself to the goal of popu-
larity in all the States. D.O.L. wisdom
would suggest a universal football game. A
great international educator is plaving the
game, especially when accompanied by the
genialising influence of D.C.L., the Whisky
of the Wise.*
PERSONAL
ITEMS
AN ADDITION TO THE FAMILY
MUSEUM.
The Marquis of Linlithgow, after planting a tree
in the St. Kilda Town Hall grounds, accepted the
spade as a memento of his visit. -ARGUS.
“Er, of course, old chap, Ai wouldn’t dream
of allowing the children to see it!”
J. Alex. Allan, the Victorian, thinks it
time he put some of his dainty verse-children
under one roof, so a little volume is in pre-
paration.
Gilbert and Dunn are once more the most
talked of men in Mudgee (N.S.W.). But
these two want votes; the original pair had
more use for purses.
Though Miss Anna Teresa Brennan, 8.A.,
LL.B., just admitted to the Bar, is the
second she-barrister whom Victoria has
known, the earlier one, Flos Matilda Greig,
does not practise. The second will, however,
do so, along with brother Frank, who is the
latest-elected Labor member in the Common-
wealth Parliament.
Trust a Scotchman to cling to an idea!
While the dailies were roaring at Andrew
Fisher over the Julia-Stead “interview,”
the ancient Bur-rt Stew’rrt, president of
the Victorian Scottish Union, wrote to say
that Andra couldna hae been the author o’
yon sinfu’ remarrks, for, bein’ a Scot, he
wad hae said “Britain,” and not “England.”
Bur-rt Stew’rrt has fanatically devoted his
life to this promulgation of a name, and
would rather burrn in Hades as a Briton
than harrp in Heaven as an Englishman.
George Stirling, of the big Richmond
(Vic.) rag business, has made his last bar-
gain. His father started the business humbly
in 1854, and when he died in 1884, George
and brother Belton succeeded to a profitable
concern. Belton passed out 10 years ago,
and George was the last of his tribe. A
keen business man, he nevertheless had a
soul above woollens and hosiery, and was one
of the finest amateur pianists in Vic. Even
professionalism admired him, and because he
was a good fellow it mostly admired him
without envy.
The estate of recently-deceased Allan
McLean, who was half-Prime Minister when
G. Reid was the other half, panned out at
£03,000. Allan was a tine judge of stock
and their value, and to that, and his know-
ledge of Gippsland, the bulk of the £53,000
is due.
Mrs. Isabella Hey, of the Cheltenham
(Vic.) Benevolent Asylum, died a day or
two ago, after a career of 105 years and
seven months. Some of the committee of the
home being sceptical as to the old lady’s
record, her papers were produced, and they
showed that she was born in January, 1806.
Victoria’s new Fruitgrowers’ Co-operative
Society has got a strenuous organiser in Mrs.
Elvery, who dwells on an orchard up in the
hills beyond Kinglake, and rears raspberries,
currants and similar poultry when she is at
home. She is a sister of the late Harrison
Ord, and threatens to do as much for the
apple-growers as her brother did for the in-
door toilers.
A fatal result from “wasting” for a race is
very rare in Australia, but there seems to
be no doubt that it was this which caused
the death of “Jack” Butler, son of the ex-
Premier of S. Aus., last week. He took a
lot of.weight off to ride his own horse in the
Adelaide Hunt Club’s point-to-point, and
finished fourth. Ten days later he was
dead of pneumonia, at 25.
- Henman seems to be a bit careless
It i 18 ora tory. From his first speech in
Melbourne: “I am probably one of the first
people who have returned to the Common-
wealth after being present at the Corona-
tion. His Ex. is not one of those people,
first, last or anyhow. Not having left the
Commonwealth previous to the Coronation,
he couldn’t return to it.
The man who had charge of George Rex’s
yacht during the Coronation larks-at-sea and
the trip to Ireland was Commander Ernest
Harper, a young Maorilander. He was edu-
cated at Christ’s College (M.L.), and entered
the navy to prove that the Australasian can
not only take to the sea, but can climb so
high that even Kings, Queens, and other ex-
pensive relics talk civilly to him.
Rose Boldrewood (Browne) has attained
renown, at the instance of Lord Dick Nevill,
copies of the lady’s book,
Ihe Complications at Collaroi,” to Queen
Mary and Princess Christian. Both the
royal ladies have now made “grateful ac-
knowledgments”; Mary remarked in a com-
plimentary note that she remembered Miss
Boldrewood s brother, Gerald Browne, quite
well, as that young man gave a display of
boomerang throwing when she strolled
through Australia. And though Miss Browne
wrote with the pen of angels, Queen Mary
would never know her as other than
sister of the young man who hurled the
boomerang.
From the office Viscount:—
With the death, at Sandown (Eng.) racecourse, of
the widow of the late Duke of Devonshire, came the
end of a society scandal which got to be respectable
in its old age, like an ugly house overgrown by ivy
The deceased dame, daughter of a notable German
count, was twice a duchess. Her fresh young beautv
captured a Duke of Manchester—the “guinea-pig”
Duke who visited Australia long ago, looking for
capitalists who might put financial somethings in his
way, and who accepted a trifle to go up and form-
ally declare the ravenous Silverton Tramway Co.’s
line to Broken Ilill open. Long before that time
Ins wile had become notoriously associated with Lord
Hartmgton, the sporting politician, heir to the
Devonshire dukedom. Hartington and the Duchess of
Manchester were seen everywhere together in public
-—at races, theatres, garden-parties, etc. Every-
body knew that the faded beauty was hard-faced
young Hartington’s best girl, and the sole cause of
lus remarkable abstinence from matrimony. The
upper circles” practically sanctioned the intrigue
by inviting the man to every country house where
the woman was to stay. This went on for years,
Lord Hartington remaining unmarried, whilst the
Duke of Manchester remained married. Then the Duke
died (and two successors to the title have followed his
example), but it was not until his widow had grown
old that she was free to be formally married to her
old lover. As Duchess of Devonshire she graced the
highest English pinnacle of respectability. Her
second husband died. Then she died, and the last
breath of scandal passed away.
JOE WARD , OF MAORLLAND.
Anna Teresa Brennan, who recently was
admitted to the Victorian Bar, is the second
woman to become a barrister of that State.
Three brothers—Frank (M.P.), T.C., and
M.A. —also wear wig and gown. Two other
brothers, W.A. and Harry, are in the inky
way, the former on the Argus and the latter
on the Herald.
THE BOOK-BOKNOWING THIEVES—
IN TOPHET.
Eugene McCarthy, dead in Adelaide at 77,
was one of the few Crimea veterans remain-
ing in Australia. He had been a good Aus-
tralian for nearly 40 years, but before that
he was at Inkermann, and in the Indian
Mutiny.
Bertram Mackennal, Melbourne’s own
sculptor, has not scored a success with his
new King George (English) stamps. But
there is nothing surprising in that. A man
may be a first-class sculptor and a very poor
stamp-designer. The wonder is that Mac-
kennal was ever selected for the job. Ac-
cording to the Times, the new issue “will
meet with but small favor among collectors
and artists anxious to obtain designs worthy
of the nation.” In the penny stamp the de-
sign is “overcrowded with detail, and the
general effect is weak and indistinct”; and
the portrait of the King is summed up as
poor and unflattering.” The halfpenny
stamp is “slightly more successful.” Only
halfpennies and pennies have so far been
issued; there was a rush for them on Coro-
nation Day, but no more are to be sold
until the Edward stamps are exhausted.
Nonagenarian Bucirde, of Melbourne,
after reading his own obituaries, has de-
parted at last, leaving a widow who is a
nonagenarian too. In the very long ago he
was manager of the Melbourne Theatre
Royal, under its builder, owner and
director, John Black—a man who made a
pile as carrier to the Ballarat and Bendigo
diggings and knocked it down in the Royal
which opened in 1855. The only other
theatre then was the Queen’s. Lola Montes
appeared at the Royal in Bucirde’s day, and
performed in a piece representing her own
adventures in Bavaria. Afterwards he ac-
companied her as manager in the tour round
Ballarat, Bendigo and Geelong. Twenty
years afterwards he was manager for G. B
W. Lewis, at the Bijou; but for most of his
long life in Victoria he was engaged as auc-
tioneer or timber merchant, with occasional
outbreaks into other branches of Business.
Robbery, etc.
• Bedford is to break out again
in Melbourne as a playwright; his new Aus-
tralian drama, “The Pluck-Up,” will be pro-
duced at the Princess’s on September 23.
ihe subject dates back to the early days of
Bedfordian literature, when Randolph was
hustling for recognition on the Melbourne
daily press. To the amazement of the
author’s friends, the Argus published “The
Lady of the Pluck-Up” in bi-weekly instal-
ments, and the yarn found favor in the
fattest Tory circles. Another yarn fol-
lowed from the same furious pen, but was
s ,° exciting as the first. “The Lady
ot the 1 luck-Up ’ had murder and mystery in
it, and in consideration of those old estab-
lished virtues, the Argus public overlooked
the story s besetting sins of Australian char-
acter and color. Adapted and expanded for
the stage, it should make a virile play ; also
a strangely new Australian play, in so far that
scenic artist Grist doesn’t need to naint anv
gumtrees into its background. The Pluck-
Up mining proposition cropped up beyond
Broken Hill, where gumtrees don't grow ex-
cept in rare creeks. It was a short-lived
proposition, but it served to bring at least
one woman to live and die on the scene—the
heroine of Bedford’s yarn.
Joseph Barberis, an octogenarian Italian,
died at Echuca (Vic.) on the last day of
July. He chased the golden veins through
California, South America and all the Aus-
tralian States; and though he was only a
looker-on at Eureka, he helped afterwards
to bury Peter Lalor’s arm.
Alexis Soyer, the grand-
father of the man who has
made a boom of paper-bag
cookery, was the author of a
number of books on his art
published in the ’4o’s and
the ’so’s. Ralph Nevill, in his
“London Clubs,” says Soyer
conceived the idea of his
great book, “The Gastro-
nomic Regenerator,” by ob-
serving in the elegant library
of an accomplished nobleman
the works of Shakspeare,
Milton and Jonson in gor-
geous bindings, but covered
with dust and obviously neg-
lected, while a book of cook-
ery bore every indication of
having been daily consulted.
“This is fame,” he exclaimed,
and forthwith began to
write. Madame Soyer was
a water-color artist of some
note; the husband was a col-
lector of paintings, and left
a number to the British Gal-
lery.
George Rex suffers from
no disturbing sense of humor
in his endeavor to work
royal pageantry for all it is
worth. His father was ever
ready to oblige the crowd
with a procession or what
not; but Edward had a keen
eye for the ridiculous, and
dodged it nimbly. He would
never have given the order
that son George is said to
have issued —“for a stand to
be erected in the yard of the
Guild Hall to enable the aged
poor and children in the
workhouses to witness the
procession when their Majes-
ties visited the city.” It
was like constituting himself
a pantomime, and shouting
the paupers to the reserved stalls. A speci-
ally reserved pyramid of representative
paupers favored with a commanding view
of Majesty and its spectacular accessories—
what a shriek for the cynic!
The Chapzander missioners return to Aus-
tralia in the beginning of 1912, and will
spend that whole year touring this afflicted
continent. _ They are “resting” at present,
Chapman in America, and Alexander at his
wife’s mansion, called Tennessee, formerly
TJffculme, in an aristocratic part of Bir-
mingham. That wife had a heap of money left
her as a cocoa Cadbury. Alexander’s pro-
fessional brethren live in a snug neighboring
house called Kentucky, 'which used to be
named something else —among them Hem-
inger, Naftzger, Davis and Bob Harkness,
son of ex-Mayor Abr’m, of Bendigo. Hark-
ness is a prolific composer, alike of song
words and music, these times. Both Chap
and Zander are wealthy men now. Chap
had £30,000 left him last year by million-
aire Converse, of _ the Baldwin Locomotive
Works, Philadelphia, and the big cocoa con-
cern keeps the wolf from Zander’s door.
TOMMY WILFORD, Mayor of Wel-
lington (M.L.) and Chairman of Com-
mittees, M.L. House of Reps.
Jacob Cohn, who hailed from the country
of Hamlet, and was one of the earliest
diggers of Bendigo, had a funeral a few days
ago. After a brief period spent in mining,
Cohn, in 1853, built the Criterion Hotel in
Market Square, and from its balcony fiery
speeches in denunciation of “digger bunts”
were delivered to excited crowds of miners.
These gatherings very nearly led to a Ben-
digo insurrection akin to the Eureka un-
pleasantness. A few years later Cohn built
a brewery, where he produced good lager
beer, and in the ’Bo’s he was twice Mayor.
He made periodical trips to Denmark, and
on one visit the King made him a baron. He
died wealthy in his 82nd year.
A PRINTER’S-INK IMPRESSION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I do not know the man. His name—
Charles Gregory Wade, V.C. —
From out the paper trump of Fame
Each morning blares at me.
I would not know him from a crow,
Or even from a bear ;
But down the news I watch him go
So blithe and debonair.
He scatters smiles to right and left,
This jesting hero tr’l ;
They weep who are < ,'m bereft,
And in dejection i„;i.
The little Bills of Labor play
About his mighty knee ;
He never kicks a Bill away,
But pats each tenderly.
He wrings his honest foeman’s hand,
And stern rebukes are dealt
To any of his Lib’ral band
Who hit below the belt.
A chivalrous, warm-hearted boy,
His progress seems to be
A pilgrimage of perfect joy—
All wit and gaiety.
His cause is just, his arm is strong,
His enemies retreat;
With laughter gay he sabres Wrong,
And kicks it wi.h both feet.
Blind Justice puts her wig on straight
When Wade, V.C., draws near ;
And Fame and Mercy, like Aunt Kate,
Cry “There he goes, the dear!”
I know not Wade the Great (I think
I mentioned that before),
But his fine portrait—done in ink—
Bumps daily on my door.
K.S.W.
THE HERO WORSHIPPER.


n
* 1
' sLf
0
, ■
rV"/
B.W
<SN
;>s
WrtCitcitffl.y
ilwllli
»
•\«
Wi
ry
MSiffiSME
n^n
■
w
w
WS%i
m
m
To be Well Dressed is to be Well Served.
HAVE you ever noticed how the well-dressed man gets the best of —everything ? That is the way of Life ! For over
forty years we have been studying the problem of Man’s Clothes. We have this season made the most complete
preparations for catering in every department for man’s requirements. Our Spring Suitings are now opening up and
will gratify every taste. Our old friends, Vicars, have this season excelled in finish, style and character, in their famous
“all wool, pure wool, and nothing but wool” Marrickville Tweeds. Call or send postcard for patterns and self-measure forms.
We pay carriage on all orders throughout Australia, and quote—
1. The “Austral” to Measure - - - - - - 635., 705., 755.
2. The “Austral” Special Hand Made ------- 345.
3. The Gowing Special Hand Made, Best Lining - £4 lOs., £4 155., and £5 ss.
4. The Gowing Ideal Hand Made, Silk Lined throughout, unequalled - - £6 6s.
Gowin
Bros.,
484, 486, 488, 490 George Street ; and 7,9, 11, 13,
15 and 17 Royal Arcade, Sydney.


WORTHINGTON PUMPS
For ;
ALL SERVICES.
CAS ENGINES and PLANTS, OIL ENGINES, CONDENSING APPARATUS.
apply 32-34 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
PERKS, DANE & CO. PTY. LTD.
MELBOURNE
and SYDNEY.
“P.P.” Grease & "P.D.” Yarn
90 per cent, cheaper than any other system of lubrication.
FULL PARTICULARS ON APPLICATION. Sole Agents for Queensland, E.S.C.A., Ltd., Brisbane.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
N. S. Wales loan expenditure last month
amounted to £465,983, or at the rate of over 5J
millions a year. In this matter of wild borrowing
the Labor Government is putting up a worse record
than its most extravagant predecessors. For years
past the party has charged various Governments with
reckless expenditure, and it declared that its idea
was to only spend loan money on permanent works
which would show interest and 1 p.c. sinking fund ;
but scarcely one single work undertaken by this Gov-
ernment comes up to those specifications. Any young
fool can, of course, gain a certain amount of popu-
larity by going to uncle, pledging his hopes for the
future, and scattering the proceeds with a prodigal
fist. But the bill must come in sooner or later. This
Government is aiming at, and more or less achiev-
ing, that sort of popularity. In a few months, per-
haps, in a few years certainly, the bill for this
Great Drunk will come in too. The State doesn’t
feel the pinch now, when seasons are extraordinarily
good and money is plentiful. But when the seasons
are bad, and the freight isn’t available, and the city
has very little money to spend, and the farmers are
crying for seed-wheat, and the graziers want their
starving stock shifted for nothing, and the selectors
must have their payments suspended, and the build-
ing boorn bursts, and the unemployed want relief
work, and Cohen calls regularly for his enormously
bigger bag of interest, then the Labor party won’t
be congratulated on its “vigorous policy.” instead,
it will have bricks thrown at it for its recklessness ;
it will be held up to scorn for its extravagant ad-
ministration ; it will have to bear the blame for the
distress which will unquestionably be felt.
Bananaland revenue for July was
£ 463,817, as against an expenditure of only
£225,373. This looks like economy and careful
management, but it probably isn't any such thing.
In all likelihood it only signifies that the big surplus
that should have occurred at the close of 1910-11
was quietly mopped up by the disreputable trick of
paying July expenditure a month in advance. Is
there an Auditor-General in Bananaland?
* * * *
The Australian Deposit and Mortgage
Bank., from the time when it had a belated revalua-
tion, and in consequence reduced its capital from
£909,979 to £198,935, and also wrote off £BlO7 of
alleged reserves, leaving £B4B to go on with: —
Dividends To
On Preference Re- Re-
Profits. Shares. serves, serves
June, 1905.. £3395 4 p.c. = £3352 £43 £B9l
Deo., 1905.. 3636 4 „ ~ 3352 284 1175
June, 1906.. 4369 5 ~ ~ 4190 179 1354
Dec., 1906.. 4816 5 ~ ~ 4190 626 1980
On all Shares.
June, 1907.. 5547 5 p.c. = 5000 547 2527
Dec., 1907.. 6106 5 ~ „ 5000 1106 3633
K
Pref.
5 p.c. Others.
June, 1908.. 6539 £4190 7£ p.c. = 1215 1134 4767
Dec., 1908.. 6610 4190 7£ „ „ 1215 1205 5972
June, 1909.. 6796 4190 10 „ ~ 1620 986 6958
Dec., 1909.. 6277 4190 10 „ ~ 1620 467 7425
June, 1910.. 7c60 4190 10 ~ ~ 1620 1256 8681
Dec., 1910.. 5532 4190 10 ~ ~ 1620 8403
June, 1911;. 6678 4190 12J- ~ ~ 2025 463 8866
This is one of the concerns that have got great benefit
out of the much-improved conditions of the past half-
dozen years. It made an awful mess of things in the
days of the Great Drunk, and it didn’t really face all
the trouble until 1904, though before that it had
faced some of it. As it happened, things were rather
sick —or, at any rate, they had just previously been
sick —when the axe was swung, so that the chopping
down was done more severely than afterwards proved
necessary. The old ordinary shares were allowed to
keep what looked like merely a nominal interest in
the concern —just enough to give them the right to
come for a bite and a drink in the event of things
turning out unexpectedly well. They have turned out
that way, with the result that the ordinary and
deferred shares now get 121 p.c. But, unfortunately,
that isn’t what it looks, because the ordinary capital,
which stood at £369,602 on June 30, 1904, was
written down to just under £3500. Thus the ordin-
ary shareholders got about £1 for £lOO, and the 12A
p.c. is only paid on the £1 that was saved from the
wreck. The old pref. shareholders suffered pretty
badly too: their £ 5 shares were written down to 30s!,
and they also got one ss. deferred share. So they
get 5 p.c. on 305., 12A p.c. on 55., and nothing on
the 655. which has entirely disappeared. All this
isn’t pleasant to recall: still such things must be after
every borrowing boom —and the present isn’t a bad
time to do the recalling.
When the reconstruction took place it was arranged
that, in case things should turn out better than had
been calculated upon, any surpluses realised when the
written-down properties were sold should be put into
a separate fund for the benefit of the deferred and
ordinary shares. This shows the progress of that fund
(not included with the reserves in the table) :
Profit on
Total Sales Special
Sales. Completed. Reserves.
June, 1905 .. £13,994 £794 £794
Dec., 1905 .. 20,193 1,340 2,134
June, 1906 .. 33,218 1,366 3,500
Dec., 1906 .. 52,343 9,989 13,489
June, 1907 .. 17,427 2,496 15,985
Dec., 1907 .. 14,126 7i>s 16,690
June, 1908 .. 16,979 2,124 18,814
Dec., 1908 .. 13,514 521 19,335
June, 1909 .. 16,177 16,403 35,738
Dec., 1909 .. 15.386 474 36,212
June, 1910 .. 18,569 3,493 39,705
Dec., 1910 .. 21,724 12,351 52,056
June, 1911 .. 15,386 4,036 56,092
It never has been explained, by the way, how the
deferred and ordinary shares are to get the corpus
of that fund, or when ; and it is time something was
said on the subject. The deferred capital is
£29,000; the ordinary £3406; total £32,406. So
the fund now amounts to almost double the capital
credited to those shares. Meantime, and until some-
thing definite is done with the money, holders of
those classes of shares have much to complain
n , “in' s" lom.. j;« they get a dividend in proportion
u, the fcii-ivth of I lie fund. The present p.c.,
for instance, js equal to just about 5 p.c. (the same
as the prefs. get) on the total capital and reserve to
their credit.
Fair progress continues to be made with the sale
of old assets. This shows the position in that respect
and some others: —
June, June, Dec., June,
1905. 1910. 1910. 19H.
Deposits (free) .. £7,788 £13,083 £12,870 £20,803
Deposits (fixed) .. 358,090 313.638 261,961 272,185
House properties.. 172,564 120.763 111,496 100,428
Land .. .. 144.293 27.764 28,649 27,126
Balancesowing .. 52.175 105,961 100,734 101,381
Advances .. .. 98,150 220,522 -220,515 231,948
Premises .. .. 35,000 35,000 35,000 35,000-
Liquid assets .. 65,010 71,621 45,974 68,720
The best feature is the clearing-out of vacant and
mostly-unproductive land. The new business in ad-
vances doesn’t grow very fast; still, there are worse
things than that, in view of the present high level
of values, and the extreme probability of a slump
by-and-bye. Later on, the bank may pick up ; there
is no visible reason why it shouldn’t, for, though its
cash position isn’t strong, it offers very good security
indeed to depositors. And, as a general thing, when
a bank is a good proposition for depositors, it is also
a good proposition for borrowers.
* * * *
Metropolitan Gas Co. (Melbourne) :
Works Written
Oh rged off
to Re- Stocks, Re-
Profits. Dividends. venue. etc. serves.
£ £ £ £ £
Dec.,’03..52,017 9 p.c. =38,574 9,481 2,000 572,346
June,’o4.. 48,971 9 „ ~38,574 6,901 575,842
Dec.,’04..51,941 9 „ ~ 38,574 19,293 1,434 568,482
June,’05..52,588 10 ~ ~42,860 4,207 3,207 570,796
Dec., ’05..56,565 10 ~ ~42,860 4,841 4,660 575,000
June,’o6 54,324 10 ~ ~42,860 10,672 3,101 572.691
Dec.,’06..60,833 LI) ~ ~42,860 13,651 4,291 572,722
June,’07..60,713 10 ~ ~42,860 12,376 5,167 573,032
Dec.,’o7. .65,181 10 „ ~42,860 16,926 5,238 573,189
June, ’OB. .66.84 S 10 ~ ~ 42.560 31,076 3,760 562,341
Dec.,'08..72,737 10 ~ ~42,860 15,850 5,526 570,842
June,’09..84,831 10 „ ~42,860 17,219 8,286 587,308
Dec.,’09..76,280 10 „ ~42,860 23,605 11,693 585,430
June,’10..71,955 10 ~ ~42,860 32,157 4,46 S 577,900
Dec.,’10..93,701 10 „ ~42,860 18,809 33,052 576,880
June,’11..97,255 10 „ ~42,860 21,333 26,855 583,087
The reserves are made up as follows:
Premiums on shares .. ..£466,535
Formal reserve fund .. .. 90,739
Meter renewal reserve .. .. 20^772
Unappropriated profit . . .. 5,^041
Total £583,087
they are the visible reserves. A co. may, however,
have reserves up its sleeve. For instance, a gas co.,
instead of putting its surplus profit into formal re-
serves, may use them to pay for plant and write the
cost off. In this case the co. has paid for practically
everything out of these profits for many years past. As
at June, 1901, the book value of the whole undertak-
ing was £2,139,827. It is now £2,169,526’. There-
fore in 10 years all the works that have been
charged to capital account amount to £29,699. All
the rest have been paid for out of profits. The list
shows what amounts have been thus paid during the
, st „ few terms: for four years the total is
£170,975. And that is exclusive of general re-
pairs and renewals; last half-year, for instance, re-
pairs, maintenance and renewals cost approximately
£42,000. This last is the real set-off against depre-
ciation ; the other huge expenditure was on new and
(no doubt) revenue-producing works. The additions
made to the reserves which are shown are therefore
insignificant things compared with those which are
not shown. With £2,139,827 spent on works whose
cost was paid out of the shareholders’ pockets, the
gross gas revenue in the first half of 1901 was
£136,414 ; and though the shareholders have not
since then put up another penny, so many additions
and extensions have been made and paid for out of
the profits, that last half-year the gross gas revenue
was £240,450.
If it be taken as a fact that the money put into
extensions and improvements was true profit—and
there seems very little doubt at all about it —-then
last half-year’s net profit was £70,400, or at the
rate of £140,800 a year. The capital put up by
shareholders, including premiums .on shares , is
£1,323,745, and that is at the rate of
10 2-3 p.c. The question is, Is that a fair
thing, or is it not more than a fair thing,
to make the public pay for such an article as gas
for light and power? The co., when it borrows
money—-it has £798,000 of debentures—pays 4 p.c.
But while it says that it shouldn’t pay more than
4 p.c., it compels the public to pay 10 2-3 p.c. The
thing is not just or equitable ; and cos. which act in
this greedy way are worse enemies of Private En-
terprise than the fieriest red-fiagger in the country.
The Bulletin admits cheerfully that the debenture-
holders, who are quite content to take 4 p.c., are in
a little better position so far as security is con-
cerned, than the shareholders; but the difference
isn’t 1 p.c. In fact, the investor is prepared to buy
the shares at a price which yield him frequently
only a small fraction over 4 p.c. That is what he
thinks of the security.
The municipalities have the right to take over the
works on paying 18 times the annual average of the
preceding three years’ net profits. There is a ques-
tion as to what net profits are; but it may be as-
sumed that they would be taken to be the profits
shown and not written off, but including those put
into extensions. This would mean a purchase price
now of about £2,650,000. All that ought to be
considered is, “Are the past three years’ profits
normal?” If profits are likely to shrink, then it
might not be good business to, straightway exercise
the powers of purchase in the Act. The purchase
certainly should have been made years ago ; but the
chance was missed, and the municipalities, if they
bought now, would have to pay an extra million.
Seeing that the co. is making an unfair profit on its
capital, and that the purchase must be based on that
unfair profit, the municipalities are amply justified
in competing as keenly as ever they can ’by means
of electric light and power. It is becoming a scan-
dal that the Melbourne City Council’s electric under-
taking isn’t doing anything of the sort. On the con-
trary, it is maintaining its charges at an excessive
level, in order partly to make profit for the relief of
the prouerty-owning ratepavers.
* * " * *
Broken Hill Water Supply, Ltd.:—
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves
£ £ £ £ £
June,’o4.. 9,456 5 p.c. = 5,000 4,456 35,663
Dec., ’04.. 12,080 10 „ ~ 10,000 2,080 37,143
June,’05..15,622 10 ~ ~10,000 5,622 42,765
Dec., ’05..16,197 10 ~ ~ 10,000 6,197 48,962
June,’06..21,579 1.0 ~ ~10,000 11.579 60,541
£50,000 (one-fourth) of capital returned.
Dec., ’O6. .21,796 10 p.c. = 10,000 11,796 72,337
June,’07..35,119 10 ~ ~ 7,500 37,098 62,258
Dec., ’07..40,660 10 ~ ~ 7,500 4,355 28,805 91,063
June,’08..27,422 10 ~ „ 7,500 2,291 17,631 108,6->4
Dec., ’08..25,283 10 ~ ~ 7,500 17,783 126,477
June,’o9.. 14,609 10 ~ ~, 7,500 7,109 133,586
£lOO,OOO (one-half) of capital returned.
Dec., ’09..21,954 30 p.c. = 7,5n0 99,811 48,229
June,’lo. .15,499 30 ~ ~ 7,500 7,999 56,228
Dec., ’10..30,287 3J ~ ~ 7,500 22,787 79,015
Bonus (80 p.c.) paid to shareholders .. 39,015
June,’11..25,460 30 p.c. = 7,500 1,155 16,805 55,820
Twenty-one years ago the N.S.W. Parliament gave
this co. the right to build a dam across Stephens
Creek, a few miles outside Broken Hill, and supply
that town and its mines with water. It wasn’t
given a monopoly; but for all practical purposes a
monopoly was created. The Government said to the
town and mines, “You’ve got a water supply. What
more do you want?” And promoters of other water
schemes were asked—“ What hope have you got of
competing, seeing that the existing co. has the pick
of the positions, and anybody else who comes in
will have to spend twice as much capital?” Now
and again the co. has been threatened, especially
when the supply has failed, and the whole mining
industry has been hung up. But as years went on
the prospect of getting a State scheme seemed to grow
dimmer, because it had been provided that in 28
years the whole of the co.’s undertaking should go
to the Government; so, if it carried out another
scheme, the Government would, it seemed, be merely
setting up a scheme to compete with one which it
would itself own in a few years. But Works Min-
ister Griffith is one of the Broken Hill reps, in the
Assembly; and he was able to convince the House
that a second supply was necessary, the existing
supply having already failed twice when the demand
for water was less than it is at present. Parliament,
therefore, sanctioned the work, and it has already
been started. It may be two or three years, however,
before this Umberumberka reservoir is supplying
water to Broken Hill; it may be even more, because
rains are uncertain cattle on the Barrier. What effect
the new supply will have on the co. is problematical.
As the new scheme will be costly, it will never be
able to supply very cheap water ; so this co. will no
doubt continue to do pretty well.
Still, its end will come in seven years. Formerly
the co.’s capital was £200,000 ; but in view of the
fact that its days were numbered, it accumulated a
sinking fund out of profits, and then paid back
£150,000. That left the shares nominally ss. each
(£50,000). But still the profits rolled in; for oh-
viously the repayment of capital didn’t affect the
earning capacity of the works. Six months ago the
co. had enough cash in hand to pay back all the re-
maining capital. But it saw that, if it paid back
£40,000, it would thereafter have to show capital
of only £10,000; and the dividends calculated on
that little lot would be at least 150 p.c. p.a.—and
150 p.c. divs. don’t look well when your politi-
cal pals are trying to explain what a fine thing
Private Enterprise is. So a “bonus” was declared
instead. Even now, after that payment, the co. has
about £48,000 of liquid assets in excess of liabili-
ties, and probably another £25,000 or £30,000
worth of assets which won’t have to be handed over
to the Government without payment—-say, £75,000
in all. What profit it will make in the next seven
years nobody knows; but in two years alone —if it
makes as much as it has made in the past two years
—it will add £92,000 to the £75,000 in hand.
Total, £167,000. Out of that the dividends will, of
course, be paid. And at the end of two years, even if
the State scheme then becomes a competitor, the co.
will no doubt make something. These figures explain
why, though the shares have been written down to
55., they are still quoted at 15s. in the investment
market. The £167,000 previously mentioned is
equal to 16s. Bd. But you wouldn’t, of course, pay
16s. Bd. to get back 16s. Bd. ; you would want a
little interest on your money.
* * * *
Fitzgerald’s Brewing and Malting Co.
(Castlemaine, Vic.) :
Net Added to Ke-
June, Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1900.. £6353 10 per cent. = £4OOO £2353 £14,192
1901.. 7107 10 „ ~ 4000 3107 17,299
£lO,OOO of reserves added to capital, making it.
£50,000, and reducing reserves to .. 7,299
1902 .. 6814 10 per cent. = 5000 1814 9,113
1903 .. 6268 10 „ „ 5000 1268 10,381
1904 .. 6250 10 ~ „ 5000 1250 11,631
1905.. 6423 10 ~ „ 5000 1423 13,654
1906.. 6741 10 ~ 5000 1741 14,795
£lO,OOO of reserves added to capital, making it
£60,000, and reducing reserves to .. 4,795
1907 .. 6778 10 per cent. = 6000 ' 778 5,573
1908.. 6705 10 „ ~ 6000 705 6,278
1909 .. 6308 10 „ „ 6000 308 6,586
1910.. 6463 10 „ „ 6000 463 7,049
1911 .. 6854 10 „ „ 6000 854 7,903
And you swallow it and say, “Thank you!” and then
sit down and wait for another year, when you’ll get
another nobbier so like the last that you can scarcely
tell the difference. If the directors ran a lawn-
mower over the profit column they couldn’t arrive at
much more beautiful regularity. True, the crop
has grown a trifle higher the last couple of years ; but
that only brings it level with what it was 10 years
ago. Everything depends upon the amount written
oft to cover depreciation and provide for bad debts
and other contingencies. If the profits have been a
bit better than usual, the directors no doubt simply
level things down by making a bit more provision
than usual. In bad times perhaps they don’t make
any provision worth talking about. In these circum-
stances the published accounts can’t be regarded as
particularly enlightening. Still there may be a
hint or two in the figures. Hint 1: About 10 years
ago the directors transferred £lO,OOO of reserves to
capital, and continued the old 10 p.c. div. ; and they
repeated the process five years ago. This seems to
suggest that the assets were not at the time over-
valued, which means that the reserves were real. In
fact, when a co. transfers reserves to capital, it sug-
gests that it has a bit up its sleeve. Hint 2: When
a co. transfers reserves to capital, it may reasonably
be taken to mean that the old div. was very easily
earned, and that the co. could see its way to pay the
div. on a trifle more capital. Hint 3: A larger profit
is shown now than when the last lot of reserves were
capitalised. When the directors capitalised those re-
serves, they must have been very well satisfied that
the 10 p.c. div. could be paid comfortably; and, as
they now show bigger profits, it may be safely as-
sumed that they think the present position is more
comfortable. The co. is one of the very few in this busi-
ness that didn’t load themselves up to the neck with
hotel properties, and borrow to do it. The liabilities
are nil. And, though the co. owns freehold hotels and
properties valued at £31,184, most of the purchases
were made after the boom days; as late as 1900 the
item stood at only £20,644. The advances at that
time were £17,045, whereas now the total mort-
gages are only £3315, with another £4289 secured
under bills of sales, liens, etc. As the advances have
been paid off, the money has evidently been put into
freehold, and that looks like better security. As a
rule the Australian brewery-co. balance-sheet has a
pretty thick overcoat of froth, worn since the days
when the cos. madly competed for tied houses. This
little concern kept clear, with- the result that to-day
the position looks very solid. Certainly the Wowser
threatens this co., like all the others in the liquor
trade; but, when he succeeds, the Wowser only suc-
ceeds in shutting pubs, and not to any extent in reduc-
ing the consumption of liquor; wherefore it isn’t the
brewing co. so much as the big pub-owning co. that
he will injure. And the Castlemaine Co. is only a
pub-owning co. to a very small extent.
Sargents, Ltd., caterers, etc., of Sydney and
Melbourne, who started with a deficit of £46,235,
representing goodwill ( £45,000) and preliminary
expenses:—
Towards
Reduction
Profit. Dividends. of Deficit. Deficit.
Jan., 1909.. £46.235
June, 1909.. £6865 10 p.c. = £3379 £3486 42,749
Premiums on new shares 2500 40,249
Deo., 1909.. 6433 10 p.c. = 4000 2433 37,816
June, 1910.. 6038 10 „ „ 4500 1538 36,278
Dec., 1910.. 8076 10 „ „ 4500 3576 32,702
June, 1911.. 7669 10 ~ ~ 4500 3169 29,533
So in years the co., besides paying a regular 10
p.c. dividend, has wiped out £16,702 of the original
deficit —-£14,202 by means of accumulated profit,
and £2500 by premiums on a new share issue. This
result is excellent, when it is remembered that con-
siderably more than half of the original capital was
represented only by the intangible “asset” called
goodwill. But there is one important matter that
cannot be tested —that of depreciation. In a busi-
ness of this sort wear and tear must be very large;
and if the plant has depreciated to a greater ex-
tent than it has been written down, then the profits
are less than represented. The directors give their
assurance, however, that ample provision has been
made. This provision probably takes the form of
new plant as well as renewals; in other words, be-
sides replacing the cup that is smashed utterly, the
co. probably buys a few new ones to counterbalance
the chips that have been taken out of those that are
still usable. If this is done to a sufficient extent,
the provision is ample and the declared profit is
real; but not otherwise. It is possible, no doubt,
that more than a fair allowance is made —in other
words, that in these extra-good times the co. is
putting by a bit, in the shape of extra stock, to
help it through duller times by-and-bye. On that
point, as remarked just now, we have to trust the
directors absolutely ; there can be no cheek on them.
The undivided profit is being put into business ex-
tensions. This shows the principal items: —
June,’o9. Deo., ’lO. June,’ll.
Capital £BO,OOO £90,000 £90,000
Liabilities .. .. 12,291 12,949 13,121
Freehold premises .. 7,100 19,100 19,700
Leaseholds .. .. 12,550 15,400 > 16,300
Plant, furniture, etc... 23,750 28,430 30,750
Stock 2,610 3,447 3,823
Cash 5,755 7,244 6,194
Other assets .. .. 701 951 1,092
The leasehold item is pretty large; and that asset
is also a wasting security. The accounts state that
the item is being written down; but here also no
particulars are given of the amount applied to the
purpose. So far very little of the capital and re
serves is represented by assets that would fetch
much apart from the business; so the co doesn’t
by any means offer a gilt-edged security. It isn’t
like a trustee co., for instance, whose capital and
reserves are mostly represented by freeholds, public
securities and cash which are worth their book-
value even if the business collapsed utterly. Ob-
viously a much smaller return from that sort of
co. can be regarded as quite satisfactory.
* * * *
Harts, Ltd., the co. which runs various
cafes in Sydney, was not known in the investment
market until about six months ago, when 9993 shares
( £1) were offered at par. The issue was guaranteed
to a limited extent: “The managing director (Mr
Philip Hart) personally undertakes to guarantee that
up to December 31, 1913, the shareholders [appar-
ently all shareholders] will receive divs. averaging
7 p.c. at least p.a., and that £2OOO in addition will
be set aside for reserve each year for depreciation of
assets, and, with this object in view, has deposited as
security with the co.’s bankers shares to the amount
of £20,300.” The new issue brought the capital up
to £50,000. Goodwill and other paper assets repre-
sent £18,825 (goodwill £11,700, 1. ...s.s £7OOO, flota-
tion exes. £125). In addition, there is an’ item
“Alterations and additions, £6827,” which is also of
the nature of goodwill; anyway, it is an asset which
may be of little or no value on the expiry of the
leases. The balanoe of the capital is represented bv
plant, stock and coin. As at June, 1911, the co.
owed £5069 to sundry creditors; but on the other
side it shows cash £10,830. For the 12 months to
the end of December the net profit was said to be
£5296; £2OOO of that was transferred to a depre-
ciation account; a 7 p.c. dividend absorbed £2BOl,
and £495 was carried forward. It does not appear
that anything was written off for depreciation apart
from the £2000; if nothing else was written off
then all or part of the £2OOO was not profit. For
the past six months a profit of £4168 is shown. Of that
amount £125 is written off flotation exes.; £lBOO
is transferred to depreciation reserve, a div. at the
rate of 8 p.c. p.a. absorbs £2OOO, and £243 is car-
ried forward. The. reserves thus total £4538 (depre-
ciation reserve, £3800; unappropriated profit, £738).
But again it is not shown whether any provision is
made for depreciation apart from the £lBOO. If no
other provision was made, then the true profit was
less than £4168, and the £3BOO is not a true re-
serve. Nothing seems to have been written off even
the leaseholds. The co. is now taking a 21-years’ lease
of new bakehouses, etc., paying 6 p.c. on the out-
lay; and that is about "the same as an issue of pref.
capital; the co. has, however, the right to purchase in
seven years. The business is no doubt profitable; but
the absence of substantial assets, apart from plant,
etc., reduces the value of the concern as an invest-
ment. And if nothing is written off leaseholds, etc.,
the figures turn the sugared side of the cake to the
world.
The Adelaide Steam Tug Co. (S. Aus.) •
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
June, 1906.. £4040 12} p.c. = £3600 £440 £9,258
Dec., 1906.. 3931 10 ~ ~ 2800 1131 10,389
June, 1907.. 6196 12} ~ ~ 3600 2596 12,985
Dec., 1907.. 5912 12} „ ~ 3600 2312 15,297
June, 1908.. 5971 20 ~ ~ 5600 371 15,668
Dec., 1908,. 5467 10 „ „ 2800 2607 18,276
June, 1909.. 1420 5 ~ „ 1400 20 18,295
Dec., 1909.. 3801 8 ~ ~ 2240 1561 19,856
June, 1910.. 3714 10 ~ ~ 2800 914 20,770
Dec., 1910.. 1945 10 „ „ 2800 19,915
June, 1911.. 3092 8 ~ „ 2240 852 20,767
Or take this view of five years’ progress
June,’o6. June,’ll.
Assets apart from plant .. £11,007 £28,698
Liabilities 2,431 1,424
Surplus £8,576 £27,274
Thus, in the five years, besides providing its divi-
dends, the co. has put by £18,698, in addition to
paying for repairs and renewals. It doesn’t appear,
however, to have added much new plant; if any has
been added, it has been paid for in the same way.
The business is rather erratic, partly because of the
variations in seasons (which means big seaward
trade in a fat year and much less in a lean year),
and partly because tugs and such-like are liable to
many bumps and other vicissitudes. Thus, the co.
just lately got a verdict for about £lOOO for ser-
vices rendered to a French barque that went aground
in the Gulf, while the co. itself has to face a claim
for nearly as much arising out of a recent collision.
In a general way, though the new Outer Harbor at
Adelaide must have cut into one part of the co.’s
business, the agricultural spurt (which means more
trade at the outports) and the big Broken Hill ex-
port trade that looms ahead give the co. very cheer-
ful prospects.
The Perpetual Trustees. Executors and
Agency Co. op Tasmania (Hobart)-
Dividends and Written To Re- Re-
June, Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves.
1903 .. £1473 8 p.c. =£B4o £713 £5,422
1904 .. 1361 8 „ ~ 840 £521 5,943
1905 .. 1535 ' 8 ~ ~ 840 -- 695 6,638
1906 .. 1371 8 „ „ 840 531 7,169
1907 .. 1519 8 „ ~ 840 679 7,848
1908 .. 1376 8 „ ~ 840 536 8,384
1909 .. 1701 8 ~ ~ 840 861 9,245
1910 .. 2395 9 ~ ~ 956 1439 10,684
1911 .. 2053 10 ~ ~ 1121 932 11,616
The trustee co, shows sundrv creditors, £13,341;
on the other side, sundry debtors, £20,392. It is
most unsatisfactory for a trustee co. to borrow
money in order to lend it out again, because the
capital, whose one job ought to be to safeguard the
beneficiaries under trusts, has then to also protect
the creditors money has been risked in ad-
vances. Probably, however, the money is borrowed
to temporarily assist estates in hand, and on un-
doubted security ; and, if so, the fact that it is not
a general deposit and loan business, ought to be
made clear. Apart from the sundry debtors, the co.
has £6306 in cash and deposits,. £5525 on mort-
gage and £3258 in property; and besides this in-
surance fund for the protection of clients and others,
there is £40,000 of •uncalled capital to whistle for
in case the co. doesn’t do the thing it has under-
taken to do, and the client thereby suffers loss.
From the shareholders’ point of view a satisfactory
feature is that, while the profit shows over 9 p.c.
on capital and reserves combined, the funds are for
the most part in tangible securities, which don’t de-
pend on the business for their value. To a large
extent, in fact, they are liquid assets.
* * * *
0.T., Ltd., which carries on a popular
cordial business, established originally in Melbourne,
but now in full swing also in Britain, is offering
100,000 shares for subscription. The present capital
of 0.T., Ltd., is £70,000, in 140,000 shares. But
John Dixon and Co. apparently carry on the busi-
ness independently in London ; and the idea now is
to extend the O.T. Co. in order to buy out Dixon
and Co. altogether. The purchase price for the
London business, with all trade-mark registrations
for other countries, is £30,000 in 60,000 shares.
The capital will then be in 300.000 shares of 10s.
each (140,000 in present co., 60,000 to vendors for
the London business, etc., and 100,000 to provide
capital for business extensions). Another 100,000
shares will be held in reserve. The profits of the
two businesses are stated as follows: 1907, £5743;
1908, £8302; 1909, £9352; 1910, £9898. If the
new £50,000 of capital earned nothing at all for a
year or two, and if last year’s profit were main-
tained, there would be more than sufficient to pav
6} p.c. on the total proposed capital of £150.000.
The figures, moreover, indicate a steady increase of
business and profits, apart altogether from what the
new capital may earn.
* * * *
Understood that metallurgist Gillies, who
has the big Tasmanian hydro-electric scheme in


PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (Limited),
Specially constituted by Act ol
Parliament to act as
Trustees, Executors,
Administrators,
Attorneys under
Power, Ag'ents, etc.
Efficient and Economical Management,
Absolute Security.
Trust Funds to lend on Farm
and Station Properties at
from 4 per cent.
Write or call for Booklet giving full information.
2, 4 O Spring Street,
Sydney.
A. J. MACKENZIE,
Manager,
GREENING’S
SCREENING.
Agate Steel, Phosphor,
Bronze, Brass.
Write for particulars to
FRASER & CHALMERS LTD.,
Equitable Building:, Melbourne;
Macdonald Street, Kalgoorlie;
New Zealand: D. M. DAVIS, Agent, Hall of
Commerce, High Street, Auokland. [2
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelati
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
band, has got the underwriting fixed up in London.
The power is to come from the Great Lake, and it
is going to shake up Hobart. Incidentally, Gillies
has a mountain of faith in his own process for the
electrolytic manufacture of metallic zinc (spelter),
which belongs to the co. ; but that, of course, has
yet to prove itself a commercial success.
* * * *
There is going to be a battle, evidently,
over the old Sunny Corner mine leases. One Car-
michael, to whom they were lately granted, has ap-
plied for labor suspension on the ground mainly
that an action has been begun by the former lessees
(who did nothing with the mine for very many
years) to test the validity of the new titles.
Great Cobar (N.S.W.) has made better
running this year than it did last. Two months
(May and June) gave 1222 tons copper, 50290 z.
gold, and 23,6340 z. silver. The quantity of material
handled and the costs are kept secret, but a few
people seem to be able to get inside information,
and some of the English shareholders are at last
starting to kick. The Mines Department says Great
Cobar handled 293,324 tons last year for 6248 tons
copper, 22,0480 z. gold and 109,4210 z. silver. The
net value of these products is given as £372,046 ;
the gross value was, of course, much more than that.
Production is helped by purchased ore; for instance,
Budgery sent 3210 tons, containing 196 tons of
copper, and this show has recently resumed its ship-
ments of 64 p.c. ore. Cobar Gladstone is also likely
to send in a considerable quantity of ore, though the
Great Cobar doesn’t appear to offer specially good
terms compared with smelters on the coast.
* * * *
Tbe Sulphide Corporation’s Cockle Creek
smelting works (N.S.W.) produced £381,138 worth
of silver, gold and lead last year. The bullion is
shipped to foreign refiners, in spite of the fact that
Australian-refined lead and silver from the B. H.
Prop, works is of exceptional purity. In other words,
Australia shows its ability to do the work, but
doesn’t get it to do —or, anyway, not all of it.
Something will have to be done about this before
long.
* * # *
At Wyalong (N.S.W.) appearances point
to a revival of prosperity as regards one property at
least. It is now nearly two years since the True
Blue and Brilliant leases were acquired by James
Channon, owner of the Junction. Under the manage-
ment of Fred Chudleigh, these properties have been
worked conjointly, and a large amount of develop-
ment has been done, principally at the 900 ft. level.
Excellent stone, both battery and mineral, is now
coming up, and altogether about 80 men are em-
ployed. Neeld’s are still looking for the lost shoot
at the 800 ft. level, without any luck.
* * * *
Mining is now State-aided in Westralia
by 34 batteries, 24 cyanide works, a number of
slimes plants and two tin dressers. From the initia-
tion of the system to the date of the last available
official figures, 784.407 tons of gold ore were treated,
and produced £2,944,433 by amalgamation, £402,676
by cyanidation, and by slime filtering;
while 45,492 tons of tin ore produced £63,887.
The total production was thus £3,480,670. . Capital
expenditure has so far absorbed £284,300, two-thirds
of which has been paid out of loan funds and the
balance out of revenue. Working expenditure has
exceeded receipts by £21,379.
Oroya Exploration has exercised 8., M.’s
option on the Transvaal at Southern Cross (W.A.),
after nearly a year of development. The mine has
made good at 250 ft., and the arsenides are rich
enough to overcome their refractoriness.
The Oroya Exploration Ltd. has now so
many mining irons in the fire that it finds itself
compelled, on top of a recent new share issue, to
accept financial help from a concern formed by
“Hail Columbia” Hoover and a few kindred philan-
thropists, and to give these worthies a call on a
block of its unissued shares as part payment for ser-
vices rendered.
Great Boulder’s recent development at
1480 ft. is simply one of tbe temporary market pick-
me-ups that were tipped to happen (B. 20/7/’ll),
and nothing more. A look at the plan shows that
the ore penetrated by the drill is a corn or bunion
on the Ivanhoe east lode, which butts into the
Boulder boundary at or about 1500 ft., and then draws
back into Ivanhoe ground again a little deeper.
Hamilton, the Boulder manager, says that it goes
hack into the Ivanhoe at about 1600 ft. It does;
and judging by what can be seen in the Ivanhoe
below that point, it doesn’t seem to have the slightest
inclination to go near the Boulder again.
For about the 50th time during the past
six months the local papers say that the time has
arrived for erecting a plant on the Bullfinch. Well,
no one audibly says it isn’t; but plant means heavy
capital expenditure, and heavy capital expenditure
in this case means stirring up shareholders for more
money. Somewhere about £30,000 of the Bull-
finch’s original working capital now remains, but at
the present rate of outlay on development, this
amount will be all gone in less than a year, and
then another £50,000 or so will be required to
carry on, and get the property somewhere near the
producing stage. With this financial burden loom-
ing ahead, and the fact of the 300,000 vendors’
shares in the co. becoming marketable on the 15th
inst., Doolette and Robinson have not done too badlv
in getting £63,000 cash for 100,000 shares which
they induced Bull Ant shareholders to accept in ex-
change for their own scrip.
Golden Bullfinch (W.A.) has fluttered
away from its rotten perch at Derwent Jack, and
alighted on a new spot at Ennuin. Latter is de-
clared to have “most encouraging prospects” ; but,
then, the same and a lot more was said about the
old roost, and yet a close and costly examination
failed to show that it was gold-tipped. At first “a
fine-looking reef” was stated to be visible under-
foot; then, after a little time had been allowed to
elapse, a meeting was held, and the announcement
made that there were five gold-bearing reefs to be
seen, and not merely one, as had been previously re-
ported. After that each successive progress report
said less about gold than the previous one, and finally
shareholders were informed that it had been decided
to wind up. The present whereabouts of the five
reefs is, as the Evening Bloodspot says, “wrapped
in mystery.”
The news that the Bullfinch East has de-s.
cided to wind up doesn’t seem to have astonished
anyone. Ever since the property’s flotation in No-
vember last, almost everybody has wondered how the
capital for its development came to be subscribed ;
and, while the Board has been a bit slow in getting
a move on, it is comforting to know that ’the farce
of regarding the show as a mine has at last dawned
upon these London people.
Payne’s New Find (W.A.) has attracted
the attention of option-hunters, and one of them has
taken the Thistle and Sweet William leases on appro.
Assistant-Government Geologist Woodward, who
visited the field a week or two ago, says the reefs
are well-defined but small, and although some of
them are rich, he doesn’t think they are things for
cos. to bother about. With crushing facilities, how-
ever, the district should support a community of
working miners for some time to come. This de-
scription bears out what was said about the find in
B. 13/7/’ll.
* * * *
Having nothing more cheering to say at
the Fingall meeting, chairman Algy Moreing spoke
about the 2oz. ore showing in the winze below No. 17
level, and expressed the opinion that an entirely new
reef had been proved between the No. 17 and No. 19
levels. He quoted from the report of geologist Dr.
Maclaren, who said that the Fingall ore-body was
something like the Indian Ivolar Co.’s reef in ap-
pearance—-a reef from which eight million ounces
had been won, Moreing added that, although the
mine bosses had recommended a policy of wait-
awhile, the Board had decided to push ahead with
the sinking of the main internal shaft Ik low No. 13
level. The past year’s development has certainly
shown the ground in the bottom workings to contain
patches of fair-to-middling and high-grade stuif ; but
without the fine hoisting plant and treatment equip-
ment, to say nothing of the mass of money already
sunk in mine development, the co. would not be able
to carry on and make a profit as it is doing.
Cumberland (W.A.) has had a final and
battery-scaling clean-up for a return of about £2OOO,
and the remains of the property are now being rooted
by tributors. Developments in the co.’s new option,
at Mount Kirk, are reported to be satisfactory ; but
as this or something similar is said about every tin-
pot show that is taken in hand in the West, share-
holders should insist on getting some more definite
information about how prospects are shaping—either
that, or kick against the expenditure of any more
money.
* * * *
Re the illegal employment in Westralian
mines of Dagoes and others who can’t talk
Shakspeare’s tongue. It seems as though the authori-
ties were waking up. At Boulder Police Court the
other day, the manager of the Perseverance was
fined £lO for employing a foreigner who didn’t know
enough English to tell a mate if anything went
wrong. It is a handy hint, for £lO per Dago, re-
peated half a dozen times, would mean a lot to some
mines.
* * * *
There is something pathetic in one part of
a message that struck the aptly-named Emerald
Options Co., of South Melbourne, last week from
Yalgoo (W.A.): “Very rich stone along bottom
drive; quartz smothered fine gold. Beaten right out
by water. Absolutely impossible to combat same
with present appliances.” How unfortunate! This
follows: “Have taken an average sample along the
footwall for width 3ft. and length 30ft. Gold shows
freely.” So the addendum, “Consider we have a de-
cidedly valuable property” could have been done
without, unless, in view of Mount Maroomba and
Bullfinch, the optioners have become a very cautious
crowd. Still, who is to say that 30ft. x 3ft., plus
the work at the other shafts, justifies a new co. in
40,000 shares, with 20,000 to the vendors?
* * * *
Another of the litter of Poseidon pups
(Vic.) has opened its eyes, and has been chained to
300 acres at the north end of the Great Poseidon
Alluvial claim. In return the latter show takes
£3OOO cash and £15,000 in fully-paid (10s.)
shares. Seeing that the Great Poseidon Alluvial is
only a claim, and not a mine that has proved gold
bv work in the gutter, it is putting a very high
value on its offspring. The pup is to be in 70,000
shares —which makes one yearn for the old Creswielc
days, when the floaters generally put a thousand or
two to the credit of the new co., limited the issue
to 15,000 or 20,000 shares, and mostly took up the
bulk of them in a determination to see the thing
through. The £3OOO is to help to pay for the min-
ing at the Great Poseidon Alluvial; and the
cash will be wanted. Away with the thought that
found expression at the co.’s meeting, that if a
second block of the claim could be floated, the cash
should be distributed! That is, unless the directors
want to mine on the Stock Exchange rather than on
the field.
* * * *
Victorian Manganese, at Buchan, has got
£60,000 lodged in London. This deposit was insisted
on by Acting-Premier Watt as a preliminary to the
introduction of the co.’s railway bill. To ensure
safe-keeping, the £60,000 is to be transferred
hither, whereupon the Bill will be hustled through
Parliament.
* * * *
John Leishman showed up as lively as a
kitten at the Birthday Tunnel (Vic.) meeting,
though he dates back as an original in the Madame
Berry. Tonnage averaged only 2dwt. llgr., but, ac-
cording to Leishman, a profit was made. Good for
Manager Hansen if that be so ! But if the Board is
running the plant and mine on so narrow a margin,
it was imprudent to cut up £llOO in hand for a
div., only leaving £lOO to come and go on. There
is no defence in saying that 25,000 tons have been
opened up north; for with such low-grade stuff you
can’t talk till the numbers go up. Hansen is going
to tackle the ground beyond the No. 1 break south,
where he may alight on a new shoot; but that
means money for development. The Board, there-
fore, should have held on to the profit.
* * * *
The large heap of accumulated slimes at
the Magdala-ctm-Moonlight, Stawell (Vic.), esti-
mated to contain about 200,000 tons, and assaying
somewhere about 4dwt., some time ago attracted the
attention of a South Aus. and Westralian crowd. A
large Butters vacuum filter plant was erected on the
property, this plant being the first of its kind on the
sunrise side of Australia. So far as mechanical
efficiency goes,, the plant, which is operated by an
88-h.p. suction-gas engine, and can handle about 300
tons a day, proved quite satisfactory; but the owners
found that the process of extracting enough gold from
Stawell “deep-ground” ore is not as easy as melting
butter. This fact had been more than suspected by
many cyaniders who had tackled the problem before,
and particularly so in regard to the tailings from the
Mag.’s neighbor, the Sloan and Scotchman, a little
proposition over which several of the fraternity have
come to grief. But in cyaniding, as in many things,
the man who comes generally thinks he can show a
thing or two to the misguided person who is fleeing
towards the horizon. The unsatisfactory extraction
from the Magdala slimes is attributed to the necessity
for further grinding the slime, so the proprietary is
erecting tube mills and a second suction-gas engine of
110 h.n. If this application of the most modern
methods to the ore of one of the oldest and most de-
funct of Australian goldfields proves unsuccessful,
the name of Stawell deep-ground slimes will pro-
bably be Mud for some considerable time to come.
* * * *
With its old capitalisation and its dread-
ful debt, Stannary Hills (Q.) only had Buckley’s
chance. In its later days the old co. carried
£lOO,OOO of 6 p.c. debentures, and £20,000
of 10 p.c. debentures, the latter issued at
a discount of 20 p.c.; so that the co. was
paying £lO a year interest for £BO, or really
12) p.c. In the last shuffle the share capital was
practically wiped out; 120,000 6 p.c. prefs. of 10s.
each were issued in exchange for the debentures, and
80,000 ordinaries were issued in exchange for the old
shares. These ordinaries, which have been providing
the working capital, are now 4s. 6d. paid. The paid
capital is thus under £BO,OOO, there is no debt, and
the co. has been relieved of an interest burden of
about £B5OO a year.
A great .deal of the money put up in the old days
was very badly spent, otherwise the mill wouldn’t be
where it is, five miles from the mines. But until
very much larger ore reserves are exposed, the man-
agement can’t change it; for, apart from the shifting
of the mill, the removal to a new site near the mine
would call for £20,000 or so to be spent on a dam
and pumping plant. So the mill has been to a great
extent remodelled in the old spot, and is now crush-
ing about 700 tons a week, which is about half its
capacity. This means higher costs than if the thing
were going full speed ahead; but more ore isn’t
available at present. The co.’s chief trouble in that
respect is that the Ivanhoe has failed so far. There
was a very fine body of ore in the old shaft, but the
workings from the new shaft have not been able to
pick up that or any other body of much account,
though there is a small but promising show near the
surface. The Kitchener is the stand-by at present,-
and particularly an open-cut on that mine. The
stuff isn’t rich—about p.c.—but it is cheaply
worked, and there would perhaps be a trifle in it,
even if it were only § p.c. In fact, with tin at
present prices, the big open-cut body further along
the dyke is a constant temptation, although it goes
only 0.4 p.c. Still, on past experience there is
nothing in that grade of stone. The fact that even
J p.c. stone can be looked at shows that the co.
has made, big improvements in North Queensland tin-
handling ; and it is a bigger achievement still, in
view of the fact that there is a good deal of lead in
some of the ore, and, to escape smelters’ penalties,
that metal has to be separated out. No estimate of
ore reserves is possible ; an estimate practically never
is possible in N. Q. tin mines, because the tin occurs
in erratic bunches, and, though one may be reason-
ably sure of finding a lode at a given level, one can’t
tell whether there will be any metal in it or not. A
modest profit is, however, being made at present, and
that will no doubt be put into prospecting. And, as
the Vulcan’s present experience shows, you never
know what the prospector may stumble into in these
tin gambles.
Gympie returns for July were only very
medium —8637 tons crushed for 40400 z. There was
but one dividend ( £2OOO. by No. 3 North Colum-
bia), while the calls ran to £3820. The chief pro-
ducers were: Scottish Gympie, 4400 tons for 1020 oz. ;
Nd. 3 N. Columbia, 819 tons for 1017 oz. ; No. 2 S.
Great Eastern, 850 tons for 6240 z. ; No. 1 N. Col-
umbia, 700 tons for 2870 z. ; S. Glanmire and Monk-
land, 712 tons for 2170 z. ; N. Smithfield, 144 tons
for 160 oz. No. 3 N. Columbia has a large ore-body,
from which some good specimens have lately been
won. No. 2 S. Groat Eastern has intersected the
Inglewood reef at 1750 ft., and results from crushing
therefrom will be watched with interest. Great
Northern, after a lengthy absence, has again joined
the producers, 89 tons yielding 460 z., and crushing
is now going on.
Hampden Consols, Cloncurry, has arranged
with the Government railway for a siding to its ore
bins and main shafts. Pretty large shipments of
picked ore have been made to Port Kembla, part of
a contract to supply 1000 tons. Development has
proved a fair quantity of ore, containing enough
iron and sulphur to flux more silicious stuff. There
is talk that Hampden Cloncurry will acquire this
show. Hampden shares are in better favor, mainly
because both the north and south faces on the Treke-
lano lode, at a depth of 80ft., give good assays. The
total distance driven north and south is 100 ft., and
the assays run high. It looks as- though the Hamp-
den Co., which got the show for £5OOO, made a
lucky purchase. Something certainly was required
to give vitality to the share market, which relapsed
when it was discovered that the deepest level, at
550 ft. in the Duchess, would probably have to face
as long a blank north of the shaft as the 400 ft. level
met with. Still, judging by the bottom of the winze
to the north, the shoot of ore has been proved ahead
of the level, though it is certainly very much smaller
than in the upper zone.
* * * *
Mount Elliott, Cloncurry, expects to re-
sume smelting in September. The profit for the
April-June quarter works out at £52,500; but
against that, of course, has to be set the heavy ex-
penditure incurred in preparing the mine for that
smelting campaign. * #
For a run of four weeks to July 8 Maori-
land’s big show, the Waihi, crushed 26,540 tons for
£52,108. Bullion shipped in its impure form to
London includes a good deal of silver, which is
taken at 2s. per oz., or a shade under the average
price, so the return may be in excess of the estimate.
Tonnage and value of output have been reduced
nearly 60 p.c. as compared with 1910, which gave
a total of £926,100, and, of course, dividends have
also come down. Still, four quarterly payments of
2s. each ( £198,362) equal 40 p.c. on the original
capital. The Waihi lodes are subject to such rapid
changes that reserves are difficult to estimate. Thus,
a run of what had been poor ground in the Edward
lode, recently opened out 20ft. wide, and- was worth
£2 17s. per ton. As to the new hydro-electric
scheme, all that can be said is that it is one of the
biggest undertakings of that kind in the world ; but
it is going to make a big hole in the cash resources
of the Waihi, which has yet to prove itself worth
the outlay of £160,000.
Alpha.: Don’t know anything about the
show... .E. 8.: No information whatever.
* * * *
Mount Lyell long ago saw the end of
its available wood fuel, and now imports N.S.W.
coal at great freight cost. The mine and works are
within 70 miles of the Great Lake, and the co.
should long since have provided its own hydro-
electric power, for when Lyell mines are gone
Mount Lyell is too big and well-organised a
concern to stop business in a country so full of in-
dustrial chances. Now Gillies and Co. have the
rights, and if Gillies and Co. don’t make good,
Mount Lyell won’t let the big opportunity go _ a
second time. Meanwhile, it seems likely that Gillies
and Co. will get the capital, and if so. Mount Lyell
will probably have to be a customer for power.
St. Mungo copper mine, 80 odd miles
from Cloncurry (Q.), puts up a remarkable record
as a consistent producer of 25 p.c. ore. For six
months it gave 600 tons of this grade, and the divi-
dends paid on 10,000 shares amounted to £l5OO, or
3s. per share. In spite of its remoteness, the mine
made a clear profit of over £lO per ton of copper.
The half-year closed with reserves increased to 1000
tons of high-grade ore; this increase was due to the
discovery of a second deposit, extending 35ft. hori-
zontally into the hanging-wall. The favoring condi-
tion is when the narrow vein in horn blende makes
a contact with granite. So far two of these deposits
have been discovered, but the upper one, at a depth
of 60ft., is nearly worked out. When the railway
comes along past the Duchess, St. Mungo will secure
cheaper transport.
Clermont <"Q.) feels better than it has
done for years, though its gold output for June did
total only a microscopic £5OB. It is coal that has
come to the rescue. Altogether there are three coal
centres in the big district. Blair Athol is only 11
miles from Clermont township. Here, at the parent
mine, electrical plant has been installed, and the
long-promised electric cutters will soon be ready.
The output for June was 5300 tons. A fire, promptly
stamped out, lately gave the co. a scare. The new
Blair Athol North has its shaft down 125 ft. and is
already in coal. The Bluff colliery people have ap-
plied for 320 acres in this neighborhood. There are
three shallow shafts on the ground, one of which
struck coal at 30ft. Per contra, the Blair Athol
people are hankering after some of the country at
the Mammoth —where the Bluff people hope to make
their pile some day. The two centres are by rail
130 miles apart.
Every engineer in charge of factories and mills
should give close attention to the power wasted in
transmission of power. The Ilyatt Flexible Roller
Bearings save 20 per cent, power and 75 per cent
of oil, so one of the first duties is naturally for
engineers to direct their special attention to these
bearings and to car boxes for trucks. Hyatts are
in continuous use in Cement Works, Ore Dressing
Mills, Factories, etc., in Australia. Bushings .oi
flexible rollers may be applied to loose pulleys or
truck wheels, etc. Should engineers require further
details, they can apply to the Australian Agents,
\v. & J. Lempriere, Melbourne; or E. W. Hurst-
house and Co., of Wellington, the agents in New
Zealand.*
“FERRODOR” Paint. —Specially manufactured fo<
preserving galvanised iron and steel. Unaffected bv
sea air, sulphur fumes, cyanogen gases. Used on
Princes and Victoria Bridges, P. and O. and N.D.L.
steamers, etc. Covers 1000 sq. yds. per cwt. WM.
& CO., LTD., 175 Clarence Street, Sydney.*
The undisputed benefit of asbestos covering for
steam-pipes and boilers has been exemplified by a re-
cent scientific treatise of the principles of steam
conveyance. Tests made have established the fact
that 100 square feet of pipe covered with this
materia], at a pressure of 2001 b. per square inch, and
coal at 16s. per ton, will save £7 per year, and
prevent loss of pressure equal to 13.84 B. Th. U. per
square foot per minute. Bell’s Asbestos Non-con
ducting Composition, supplied in the cut bags, or
applied by experienced workmen at contract rates.
Bell’s Asbestos, Ltd., 315 Kent Street, Sydney.*
Professor Richards, in the revised edition of his
celebrated edition of “Ore Dressing,” 1909, devotes
14 pages to the Wilfley concentrating table, and,
among other things remarks (p. 1465) : “The first
table sold was installed in the Puzzle Mill, at Breck-
enridge, Colorado. Since then over 12,000 have been
sold. This machine has revolutionised ore-dressing,
and as such is a phenomenal success. The original
form, and forerunner of all modern shaking tables
with longitudinal riffles . . has been greatly improv-
ed.” And further on (p. 1478) remarks: “One feature
of the Wilfley table to which especial attention should
be called is its ability to separate sands from slimes
while making the ordinary concentration. This sep-
aration is more complete and thorough than can be
made by any classifier, and should be taken advant-
age of in designing mills.” In the extensive addi-
tions just made to the Golden Horseshoe Mine (W.A.)
a large number of Wilfley Concentrators have been
installed. The Austral Otis Engineering Company,
Limited, South Melbourne, have the sole manufac-
turing [i
FOR SALE Cheap, Second-Hand, 15 Break H.P.
Tangye Gas Engine, in good order. Apply Manager,
Bulletin Office, 214 George Street, Sydney.*
Extract from The Insurance Observer, London
(4/11/1910). —-“Combined Assurance: When the
rates quoted by The Colonial Mutual Life for en-
dowment assurance policies are examined and com-
pared with those generally charged for contracts of
a similar description, one’s belief in the future of
this enterprising departure becomes stronger. A
policy carrying the right to participate
in profits can be had for about the same amount as
has usually to be uaid for a contract which does not
include Accident and Sickness benefits.”*
* * * *
WOOD PIPE has “made good” in Australia as in
other parts of the world. It is specially suited to
districts where acid and mineral are potent in soil
or water, as it has no exposed metal. Address: The
Australian Wood Pine Co., Balmain, Sydney.*
* * * *
SIMPITROL AIR GAS —the light that is nearest
daylight and almost as cheap. The Simpitrol Air
Gas System has all the advantages and none of the
disadvantages of other systems. It is simple, abso-
lutely safe, and is the most economical light you can
have, costing one-sixth that of electricity, one-quarter
that of oil, and one-fifth that of acetylene lights. It
is not explosive, and does not entail tedious winding
and regulating of burners. Write for Illustrated
Booklet, Simpitrol Lighting (Australasia), Ltd.,
84-88 William-street, Melbourne. Dept. W.*
Mine Managers, Engineers.—Do you want a first-
class Pneumatic Tool, Machine, or an Air Com-
pressor. Ask for the NILES. BOHLER BROS. AND
CO., LTD., 1 Angel Place, Pitt Street, Sydney, and
183 Queen Street, Melbourne, will provide you with
it. Also with Castings, solid and hollow Miners’
Drill Steel, Cast Steel for all purposes, Motor-car
Steels, Tools, etc.*
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
L so, write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address, 163 King
Street, Sydney, and 9 Queen Street, Melbourne.* | .
* * * *
An economical proposition in belt conveying of
great interest to mining and mill managers, en-
gineers, etc. “Condor” Brand Registered Black Sur
face Hardened Conveyor Belting—specially adapter
for the Australian climate —for conveying ore, sand,
metal, wheat, coal, etc. Less than half cost of
rubber belting, giving excellent results, Kalgoorlie,
Broken Hill, and Wallaroo. Write for price lists
and particulars to Sole Manufacturers, Hopkins Bros.
& Odium Prop., Ltd., Leicester Street, Carlton, Mel-
bourne.*
* » * *
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from l-elton, Grimwade and Co. Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modern scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitung laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne.*
F. DANVERS POWER, mining engineer, is pre-
pared to purchase approved MINING properties. Ad-
dress: National Mutual Chambers, Pitt and Bond
Streets, Sydney.*
* * * *
Nobel’s Explosives are the best and most re-
liable. We are agents for the original makers,
Hamburg. Large stocks on hand. Contracts at low
rates. WM. ADAMS & CO., LTD., 175 Clarence
Street, Sydney.*
* * * *
Mine managers when requiring air compressors,
either belt, steam, or electrically driven, should not
fail to inspect the Reavell Air Compressor, when they
will be impressed by its simplicity, compactness and
portability. Owing to the working parts being en-
tirely enclosed it can be placed to work on any part
of the mine, either on the surface or underground.
The number of repeat orders which Messrs. Reavell
have received from the mining community proves
how greatly their compressor is appreciated. The
representatives for Australia are Messrs. Babcock
and Wilcox, Haymarket, Sydney.* [2
* * * *
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign Patents obtained.
Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Melbourne, and
Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write us for In-
ventors’ Guide.*
*• * * »
Assayers, Mine Managers, and Prospectors
write to H. B. Silberberg and Co., 443 Bourke
Street, Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining
requisites and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc
pulverisers to 200 mesh; hand sample grinders to
120 mesh; Ainsworth’s assay balances sensitive to
1/13000 grain; prospector’s balances to 1/1000
grain ; weight; pocket transits ; gasoline combination
furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles; chemicals; etc.*


Wpfgf
HEERING’S
COPENHAGEN
CHERRY
BRANDY.
Est. JBIB.
i r auks racirn.
STUHR’S
Finest Table Delicacies
Genuine Caviare.
Anchovies in Brine.
Peeled Shrimps.
Shrimps Extract.
Sold by all High-class Provision Dealers.
C. F. STUHR & CO., Hamburg.
English Export Agent: W. Lovegrove, London, E.C.
Robur
Tea
h
ĥ
ħ
has no scenty, bitter,
strong taste.
IT
has a rich, full,
natural flavour that
leaves a soft, silky,
satisfying sensation
upon your tongue
after you’ve drunk
it —it is very refresh-
ing—it is very good.
The "ROBUR” Tea Co.,
Janies Service & Co.,
Proprietors.
QUALITY—BUCHANAN WHISKY
“BLACK & WHITE.”
A
WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, August 7, 1911.
My Dear Artni, —
Concerts of all shapes and sizes smote
this city last week. The wail of fiddles, the
crash of chords, and the growl of ’cellos side-
stepped “The Merry Widow,” now refusing
about 14 proposals of marriage nightly at
the Royal. While, at Her Majesty’s, Louis
XI. remembered he had once been a dauphin,
Carrie Lanceley’s return-home concert was
studded with Australian tourmalines in the
Town Hall.
At _ this last outburst of song, Acting-
Iremier Holman handed the Girl the Jewels
—the part usually copyrighted by the hero
in an Adelphi play. Carrie, who wore the
handsomest drapery that has swished across
the Town Hall platform for i some weeks,
made a one-line reply, and gbt away with
the tourmalines, which were given by some
Sydney admirers. Her voice shows no signs
ot wear, and her carol is very sweet and
clear. A pretty morsel by Alick Maclean,
“Hold Me with a Charm,” was a gilt-edged
item in the song-burst. Laurence Godfrey
Smith was at the piano, Bryce Carter behind
the ’cello, and George Grimm in charge of the
male warbling; and a waggon-load of flowers
trimmed the North Sydney girl’s return.
Five minutes before Conductor Joseph
Bradley claws the atmosphere, a Symphony
concert in the Town Hall is like a den of
wild beasts. Squeaks, groans, and shivery
sounds like pencils scratching new slates in-
troduce the players struggling into tune.
Last Saturday’s programme included a little
thunder in Tschaikowsky’s Symphony in E
Minor, and a delicate trifle by Debussy, a
Prelude which opened the last half of the
concert. Iris de Cairos-Rego was at the
piano later, when Cesar Franck’s symphonic
variations were produced here for the first
time. The Girl and the fiddlers were ex-
cellent, but the plain citizen won’t tear his
hair if Saturday happens to have been the
last time of hearing this composition. Bar-
rister Lingen and Judge Backhouse rested
from the law at the fiddling. Mr. and Mrs.
Will Macdonald looked in; she was the
charming song-bird Kate Slattery, and her
tall white, weeping, Lancer plume did
everything a fashionable feather is expected
to do at a matinde concert. The learned
Miss Louisa Macdonald, M.A., who presides
over Blue Stockings in the Women’s College,
was also amongst the throng. The eastern
gallery had to bear a flash of August sun-
shine that interrupted the general harmony
by hunting for crow’s-feet and rice powder.'
Leonard Borwick opens the door of the
screen which now conserves concert sounds
on the Town Hall platform, and glides on to
the piano stool before anyone has time to
realise how he got there. Then he lays
hold of this city by the scruff of its musical
neck, or some other handy part, by his mag-
nificent technique and charm of style. The
noisy old type of ivory banger was as active
as a cat, and squirmed all over the keyboard.
Ihe modern Borwick manner is suppressed
into a mild movement of a small forelock.
F. S. Kelly drank in the mighty music of the
Sonata in C. Major” on the first night of
Borwick’s appearance in this city. With
him in the audience were Miss Mildred and
Miss Marcia Lamb and an elderly male
chaperone.
Austral String Quartet crept across
the Y.M.C.A. platform the other evening,
and buried their bodies behind a screen,
while the lights went down with a loud click.
From the gallery four heads were visible.
Cyril Monk (first violin) showed a patch of
forehead, Alfred Hill (second violin) ex-
posed one ear and a few locks of hair. Vost
Janssen (viola) and Carl Gotsch (’cello)
were distinctly seen to breathe if they moved
towards the perpendicular. Mrs. Grace
Miller Ward’s delightful lilt in “Elaine”
escaped over the top of the barricade and
captured a determined encore. Young men
and maidens in the audience gave classic
music a fair trial in a twilight gloom, and
an occasional giggle was reminiscent of a
tunnel without the smoke. The idea of an
invisible choir is not new. Whether it ought
to be encouraged here till it registers as the
Wedding March Co. Ltd. is a matter for
further consideration.
For women who nibble at concerts every
night, and gorge on two when Saturday
comes along with its matinde hat, the problem
of how to look clean though musical is going
to work back to morning dress. Rags of
half-soiled evening gear, with doubtful drabs
of lace sagging down under the hem of
crumpled finery, are frequent fatalities. If
a cloak which has once been fine, but is
now degenerating into dirty old age, is
smeared over the frowsy frock, the tragedy
of “evening dress” is made so apparent that
even the usher notices it. In protest, some
of Sydney’s habitual song-tasters are garbing
themselves in ordinary walking-dress, and
sport Eve’s temptation toques in the galleries
as tributes to the evening air.
When F. S. Kelly composed his serenade
for flute and orchestra, on the voyage to Aus-
tralia, the churning of the screw’ or the beat
of a sea-gull’s wing was his only external
aid to rhythm. F. S. has a gift of pitch
which is like a sixth sense, and makes him
read sounds in the back of his brain, while
his fellow passengers read Elinor Glyn or
other serious writers. He never touched the
piano—even by accident —from the Thames
to the Yarra. The usually astute John
Geinmone, also on the ship, was deceived,
and guilelessly piped to F. S„ who was ab-
sorbing ideas for the flute solo in his
serenade. John was the most astonished
man this side of Kingdom Come when the
mail-boat heaved in sight of Sydney Heads,
and F. S. Kelly produced the composition.
From a Coronatrix :
Mrs. J. C. Williamson, with Dolly Castles for com-
pany, lias tripped across to Paris to see daughter
Marjory make her bow in t rench comedy—not as a
professional, but as a student. The brilliant girleen
was chosen from some hundreds to take the r6le be-
cause of her dramatic force.
Ex-Minister Fuller and his missus have made a
deep impression on John Bull. The N.S.W. South
Coast representative has all the points of a successful
social man, while the lady, besides her commanding
height and figure, owns brilliant conversational gifts.
At the Ascot gee-gee foregathering the pair received
a command to come within the Royal pen ; and they
came and conquered.
Prime Minister and Mrs. Fisher have grown very
weary of the kow-towing. Yet they have been much
sought after and “honored.” At Royal George’s gar-
den party at Buckingham Palace, the P.M. and his
bulky dame were bidden to appear before the Royal
tent to clasp the hands of George and Mary. After
that, of course, all things were possible to them.
Peers grew tired and stiff from waiting before the
great event. Some slipped out the back door of the
Abbey for a smoke. As the procession approached
they adjusted their coronets, tucked their ermine robes
under their arms, and, showing much calf, did a
scamper back to their exalted places.
With her coronet, robes and jewels, every peeress
carried a satchel. Hardly had the crowns been placed
on the Royal heads when they drew forth their
sandwiches and flasks and nibbled and sipped to the
accompaniment of the Lord’s Prayer. 1 didn’t smell
the flasks.
Melba was marked for Royal favor. The Aus-
tralian skylark was a guest of honor, and sat within
the Royal rails in the Abbey. Nellie wore such ropes
of pearls and diamonds that might be the envy of
every peeress present.
Our old friend “Tryphena”—Dame Doughty—had
a busy day. She burst forth into an impressive
ode in the London Morning Post, and took train
to her husband’s constituency immediately after the
Abbey performance, to entertain 25,000 children at
a bun party.
Falstafflan John Forrest, of Westralia, was the
most swollen Commonwealth figure in the Abbey.
Like an illuminated bow-window he sat ablaze with
splendor. Meanwhile his dame lost some of her
decorations. A search took place in the Abbey, with
good results. The beautiful cluster of diamonds and
opals that went astray was a presentation from
Westralian mining people, and the finding was a
matter for Forrest hallelujahs.
There was some weeping and gnashing of teeth
at the High Commissioner’s office, for at the eleventh
hour it was discovered that the Papuan Lieutenant-
Governor’s wife had been omitted from the Abbey
list. But the damage was repaired, and cards came
along at 11.55, so to speak.
High Commissioner George blew out completely
after the Abbey ceremony. Too tired to cross the
Westminster Hall for luncheon, he, with his fair
dame, dropped on a stone seat outside the building,
and wrapped himself in rest, dead to the streaming
crowds that passed out.
The wife of Papua’s Gov. Murray, whose
card for the Abbey ceremony on June 22
went missing until the last moment, is a
daughter of the late Dr. Jenkins, who once
cultivated prize bulls in the rolling uplands
of Nepean Towers. The late Mrs. Jenkins,
sen., had bagpipes in her family tree. For
years the Murrays lived on the Parramatta
River, where Mrs. Murray assiduously culti-
vated prize fowls and other domestic virtues.
Of late she has mostly lived in Switzerland.
Concerning the new cookery, one type of
handmaiden who used to burn saucepans in
otherwise happy homes is alleged to be set-
ting the suburbs in a blaze with experimental
paper-bag bonfires. Even well-trained hus-
bands are getting restive on a diet of parch-
ment cinders.
A man who is addicted to Food sends me
this: —
Paper-bag cooking is a fraud. In the first
place the expense is great. Each bag has to be
greased, and the result is the wasting of about 21b.
of good butter over every meal. The bags burst
with exasperating frequency. The Soyer recipes,
which are the only paper-bag recipes extant, demand
the use of the most costly and out-of-the-way in-
gredients ; and the only remedy Soyer has to suggest
when the bag explodes and distributes the priceless
contents about the stove, is to grease and fill another
bag and start over again. The most illusionary and
mythical benefit of all has to do with the alleged
welcome escape from the drudgery of pot- and
pan-cleaning. From the kitchen comes the emphatic
word that it is easier to clean three pots than grease
one full-sized bag. And, finally, a subtle but power-
ful flavor of paper haunts every dish. It may be dif-
ferent when the great chef’s own bags transpire; at
present one is disposed to think that someone had
some rather evil-smelling paper to dispose of.
Lord Dudley put in most of his time playing
golf, what time he waited here for the Or-
vieto and medical assurance that his A.D.C.
was out of danger. Mrs. T. H. Kelly and
Mrs. Philip Morton were among those who
gave dinner-parties in his honor during the
week.
The Home Rule triplet, W. Archer Red-
mond (M.P.), R. Hazelton (M.P.), and J.
Donovan (general utility), now touring Aus-
tralasia, are looking for spare cash for the
Cause. They leave for Queensland on Sat-
urday, and hope to get a good alluvial pick-
ing in the North.
Archer Redmond’s fighting weight is any-
thing from 14 to 16 stone. He stands about
six feet high, and generally sits down in
a cloud of tobacco smoke. He is elusive in
conversation, but drops fat compliments at
the feet of the Australian Girl. “Where,”
he asks through a heavy fog of smoke, “will
you find better-looking and better turned-out
women than those one sees in Sydney? Not
in London —not in Paris ! Home Rule —all
women believe in Home Rule, on the domes-
tic hearth, anyhow—we’re going to get in
about two years. That’s my opinion.” Red-
mond, careless in his millinery, is the an-
tithesis of the carefully-groomed Hazelton.
In the matter of socks. Mr. Ilazelton, of
Dublin, though he sits for Connaught, refuses
to be drawn, though his fancy lends itself to
stripes—green, on a dark background. “It’s
merely a matter of taste,” says he. “As for
waistcoats? Well, I don’t like them home
made.”
The brains of Ilazelton, M.P., are apparent
in liis cold, judicial argument on the Woman’s
Suffrage question in Britain. “I believe in
the Woman’s Vote, and voted for it in the
House. Not that I think its results will be
as great as its most enthusiastic supporters
believe. Like all other reforms, it will
neither fulfil the great expectations of those
who are fighting for it, nor be the
failure its opponents predict. You can’t
make the world a paradise by Act of Parlia-
ment —you may make it better. If women
have a political trend of mind, why shouldn’t
they use their ability? No one blames the
Primrose Dame for using her influence.
Then why condemn Woman’s Suffrage?”
Mr. Donovan at this crisis hurriedly res-
cued his hat, on which Archer Redmond was
about to distribute 14st. of matter. He is
the mild-mannered end of the fighting party,
has a chastened recollection of having once
scoured the wild west coast of Tasmania,
prefers ladies’ society, liked Maoriland, may
even carry a few dozen photos of M.L. belles
in his breast pocket, and is too polite to
admit he’s still a bachelor, because it might
give an impression that he’s a block of Aber-
deen granite, with no eye for beauty.
Gov.-Gen. Denman, according to the gospel
of Hazelton, M.P., ought to be popular in
this patch. He was in charge of Irish affairs
in the House of Lords, and was well liked.
Miss Bernice Edwell’s recent show of min-
iatures, landscapes and leather attracted a
steady trickle of visitors to her lair in the
late Douglas Fry’s old studio. The walls
wear a new dress of pale-brown paper, and
female intelligence has vigorously applied
putty to a venerable leak over the window,
where the mere male caught the drip in
spare crockery. Miss Edwell has a clever
trick of snaring the wrinkles of old age in
her miniature work. The portrait of Mrs.
Cathels, a sprightly 88 or thereabouts, repre-
sents Bernice at her best. Mrs. Shaw’s tiny
white collar, black dress, and soft curls
make a delightful early-Victorian study which
suggests sandal-slippers, pattens in a storm,
and a sedan chair in an emergency. Dr.
Cyril Shepherd’s little daughter Rosemary
looks out of her tiny frame with blue forget-
me-not eyes under a bright crown of golden
hair. Before land-resumption has torn all
the ivy whiskers off the faces of old ruins,
Bernice took the likeness of some elderly
cottages in the Ryde district. One of these,
with wistaria eyebrows and a green and
yellow trimming of foliage, is a typical bit of
old N.S.W.
The Freemasons will have aired their
baubles at a ball in the Town Hall before
this reaches you. The Lieut.-Gov. Cullens
and civic grandees will retire to the usual
shrine set apart for the Really Great, and
the arch of steel will clash at about 9 p.m.
The frost which fell upon the effort to lure
coin from the Marys of this State for the
Coronating gift to English Mary, is now ad-
mitted in public places. The fund fell down
exhausted at £73. (There may ha-ve been
some half-pence, but they were cut off as a
tail of no importance.) The English Mary
sent an autograph letter of thanks the other
day. N.S.W. women —Marys included —are
not mean; but they are made to appear so
through this attempt to thrust a piece
of gratuitous folly down their throats. There
was no sense in asking for help from the
Mary who was struggling to keep the daylight
out of her small boy’s breeches; and the rich
Marys seemed to think it equally ridiculous
to ask them to hand out a proof of their
loyalty in hard cash. So, still another foolish
fad, otficially persisted in, has given this State
still another bad advertisement —bad. any-
way, to those who don’t know why our Marys
snapped their purses.
The Medical Congress, in September, is
liable to break an occasional stay-lace, or
burst a tight waistcoat button, if it consci-
entiously feeds according to the official pro-
gramme. There will be three garden parties
-—the Lieut.-Gov. Cullens, Miss Walker and
Army Medical Corps are to be responsible—
two balls, a conversazione in the Town
Hall, an extensive frivolity at the Yacht
Club’s place, a tea-spread at the Rose Bay
Golf House, a display of academic frills at
the ’Varsity, a Government harbor excursion,
men’s dinners, a ladies’ luncheon-snack at
Paris House (to exceed all other snacks in
elegance), and a perpetual speckle of private
parties. When the Medical Congress pulls
itself together after 10 days of such serious
business, it will take the first train for home,
and order itself large doses of nux vomica.
Marie Axarine, of Melba’s Opera Co., the
youthful Russian Patti, is going to set this
town in a flame with golden hair, petite
beauty and French frocks. She’s so French,
in spite of her Russian birth, that she thinks
with a Parisian accent, dreams in chan-
sons. As Marguerite in Faust (to be played
here in French) Marie makes the average
Russian so far forget his politics while she
sings “The Jewel Song ” that he doesn’t
know whether he makes bombs or pearl neck-
laces.
The handsome Pole (the coming opera
team has a reputation for female charms),
Jeanne Wayda, a dramatic soprano, can
chatter in German, Italian, and a few other
tongues. She is now taking on the English
language, and hopes to get it beaten in about
16 rounds. Jeanne Wayda, by . the way,
created the heroine’s part in Paderewski’s
only opera.
The youthful tenor, McCormack—he’s not
more than 27, according to his personal friend
Hazelton, M.P., who knows most things—is
only second to Caruso. McCormack is a
great Home Ruler, and may have to be
chained to Her Majesty’s stage door if the
echoes of a Home Rule meeting get out into
the night air when he ought to be attending
to his duties in “Traviata.”
Mr. Hope Johnstone, of the Annandale
clan, and rounder of the male Pioneer Club
in this city (the female pioneer teas in an-
other pen), is temporarily taking his tartans
oft to the other side. Me won’t find any
pioneer with a firmer grip on two continents
than the N.S.W Antill family possesses,
ihe male Antill has the right to drink cock-
tails in an ancient pioneer club in U.S., “The
Mayflower.” For about two centuries
Antills have been doing things in New Jersey
one Anna, the daughter of the historic Gov-
ernor Lewis Morris, having married there
an Edward Antill. Morris was one of the
69 who signed Uncle Sam’s Constitution.
Major Henry Antill, who left America as a
joined the British Army as ensign in
179 b, and eventually came here as A.D.C. to
Gov. Macquarie, gave the Australian end of
the clan its first push on to the Picton soil.
Miss Mildred Wrighton, who is the fair-
liaired vocalist of the Joseph Blascheck tour
was surprised, but not seriously hurt, by the
figures that were hurled at her head, on its
arrival, re the wriggles of Sydney Harbor
foreshores. “We got up early, determined
not to miss anything, and scrambled up on
deck,” she says. “A magnificent sight—one
bay opening into another! But did you say
hundreds of miles of shore?” I said it again,
and added, “Two hundred miles of Jeep-
water frontage!” and hoped it was right—a
mile or two here or there is the surveyor’s
funeral, not mine. “I expected to have
been disappointed in the Harbor,” murmured
Mrs. Blascheck over the lid of the teapot,
“as I had been with the Bay of Naples—as
one generally is with anything much praised :
but. its beauty exceeded my highest antici-
pations.” Miss Wrighton, making a rapid
recovery from the figures, washed down some
cheerful recollections of foreign ports with a
second cup of tea.
“Akenelii” drops in from Salt Lake City
(Utah) :
A small city of glad grass, trees, trim gardens
and toy villas. We saw the whole in two and a-half
hours by motor. Yet the hotel in which we stay
would do for New York. Claimed that there are no
poor here.
This is not intended to drive persons of weak
religious convictions to wear Mormon harem-
skirts.
Lieut. Bundock, of the R.A.G.A., has been
officially transposed fr,.m the velvet lawns of
Victoria Barracks to the breezes of Queens-
cliff (Vic.). Mr. Bundock has a serious re-
putation for pleasing manners, and is the
Chesterfield, jun., of the Ancient Armory
department. In spite of rumors to the con-
trary, he is still open to engagement.
Beatrice Grimshaw crowds vivid Papuan
“color” into “When the Red Gods Call”
(Roycroft Library). She’d almost deceive
her own sex into believing she grew whiskers
or- clean shaved, if she didn’t sign the fem-
inine handle to her name. “After all a wo-
man is just a woman, and one need not ex-
pect too much.”. .. . Or, “The Hannabada
girl cried when she saw him, being a woman,
and therefore foolish.” Or, again, a closer
cut: “Like most really adorable women,
Stephanie had not much sense of humor.”
This is all the kernel of masculine tradi-
tion. but at last the brilliant Beatrice for-
gets firearms and other masculine gear, and
melts into a mere woman in one line: “She
(Stephanie) must have had at least three
starched petticoats on, to mrke such a rustle
getting away.” The male novelist would
have accounted for this scuffle in skirts, with
“silk lined.” Only women and steam-laundry
proprietors know the amount of riotous noise
three starched petticoats can make if they
are flurried.
Yours, with a broad nib,
Vandorian.
The doctors of Australia had cause to
bless the Dudley rdgime, and, incidentally,
the Dudley household had cause to bless the
Australian doctors. Lady Dudley arrived
an almost helpless invalid. She had under-
gone severe operations in London, and a year
after reaching these parts she went back to
England for a further bout with the sur-
geons. She returned as ill as ever, yet Dr.
Shields, of Melbourne, put her right. The
Duchess of Bedford came to Australia with
a serious heart trouble. Sydney’s Dr.
Stewart McKay attended her, and she wrote
from Vancouver—on the way home —to
say she was better than she had been for 10
years. And now Dr. Clubbe has so success-
fully dealt with Captain Rome’s appendix
that the warrior is talking of leaving within
p f^rtni^ht.


w
•w.
S.s'.Ss'jf.s’’
Wi
■ ■T;t
! -,
1
‘j
y
vt
\ >
■jfi y..~:w*p.
il
/"
s s
£5
7,
*#
■lgiggiM
:-my*
tv&.
rsMmf
p#
A
§.
/ SdSKEBSL
6-<mm
V
m
Vi,
X
sj?
‘&&M
’■<
Sal
aSK*
<*
as
COBRA
J
'ib"‘
M
8
> '«&,;
v
SR®
*)
V-!
7r/
-4>
qraettf
i *
:■ - ■
a^i 2 ?
\j
/ 'Wm
&:&%meUHmMii
m
ililft
/V /'y; Vss R
7
£
/7^
sSwS&H? -*
7/
• •“^<‘7sf>;^
wte
-2Y^'*T-'.'"VVjV-cW/
f /
7;7>
>vw>
,v '
'VV*
V. \ >, jj
>7 \ i. i f
I * i r <2&dM
?3
*
5*
ggs
7-'
,-'7\
mflmm
A,
f\
V
* : §
nS
?3>
||k 7
-CA
mm®
%
,7"
’ V 7 > 74
aF-cj
SB?
7 '7
/'#
: ;: 7 :
Ilfiliiilili
K
s^jii
7%r-I
\
\
v\\
gKJwwSS
ru
V. \
4
.
3*S
WjfiW»«g«S>SSUMp>v
<, ~i7 i
3^
s&?*&', JHs, ', 7r..<S
’^i?V
*
:Vf
?>'7
&
12
!i^*7
7.-' :
f -i
W&Sgoill3lh i
Hk. i!l */ \^'. x <*ahs l «., ’iifc. '•i^ijjjSSsisßS
7*7
WOl
w^ss&§
*^?3?es%sasa»i«sfe
'fVi'iAV:
?*?
s^,
.-5 J
m
f®ff:'r'^7 v ' 722 —' • WBHBSi
w
tmm ■ hHB
SB
.
ssst®
*■7;
WM? : J>. I
HISS
"■■ Jpf.;
■S s -f(‘;Ai}:
£bwjs
I si
»N>gC
COBRA, Boot PolisH.
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Had his Coron-
Ation too.
No one could
His claim demolish
To the title,
“ King of Polish.”
Chunder, when the
Primate crowned him
Whispered to the
People round him:
‘All the best
Archbishops use
“COBRA” polish
On their shoes.”


HICKS, ATKINSON & SONS PTY., LTD.,
The Collins Street House, Melbourne.
MRS. TRENTHAM,
with NEW PARISIAN MILLINERY, MODEL
GOWNS and the choicest of SUMMER NOVEL-
TIES OF DRESS requirements, will be at
THE HOTEL METROPOLE, SYDNEY,
from the 28th inst. to September 1 inclusive.
Appointments invited.
N.B.—The visit must be positively limited to
five days.
DUNLOP
RUBBER
HFFI C «
For
Quality
Wear
and
Comfort
*
I.
m
ALL
LEADING
BOOTSHOPS
Dunlop Rubber Co.
All States & N.Z.
h
It
Pays
to Ride —■
DUNLOP
TYRES
Owing to the Wear
and Satisfaction they
give.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS. NONE
GENUINE WITHOUT THIS fUT
ĥ
DUNLOP RUBBER CO, Ml State* end NX
Dunlop Tyres -
Ensure Easy &
Comfortable Riding.
ħ
h
Costumes § Riding Habits
arc Known All Over Australia.
WRITE OR CALL FOR
CATALOGUE OF NEW FASHIONS.
323 George Street, Sydney
Opp.
Pafing's.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, August 7, 1911.
My Dear Yarrie, —
Vice-regal arrivals are alarmingly fre-
quent ; but Melbourne always seems to have
a race meeting ready to supply the newest
cocked hat and tiara with immediate enter-
tainment. On Saturday, the V.A.T.C. struck
a beautiful day ; and a Spring meeting crowd,
which included the G.-G. and the Pony,
trained and motored out to sunlit Caulfield
to see the Australian Hurdle Race. The
frocky women were mostly caught napping
by Spring’s unexpected sprint, and moaned on
the lawn about the new dresses not yet made.
For the despised winter coverings they had
on they apologised almost tearfully. The
few examples of new Spring frocking drew
Ml eyes, and a perfect blizzard of envious
criticism. Lady Denman was in a nattv
black and white tweed, with a small black
hat. Mrs. Leslie Macdonald paraded trium-
phantly in a light tailor-made, and a big
white hat. The Mount Schank Clarkes also
scored heavily over the mournful, be-furred
rabble. One sister looked smart in a white
dress and brown suede shoes. Another was
clothed attractively in a tight blqe-and-pink
costume, whose skirt didn’t altogether ob-
scure her blue stockings and shoes.
Lady Denman and the Fuller lady are old
friends. After the ceremonious bustle of
landing and swearing was over, the two
foregathered for a quiet yarn. Probably, as
newcomers, they bewailed their mutual ignor-
ance of what not to do as regards people
they didn’t know, and how not to do it.
Both sets of newly-imported Government
Mouse people invaded the Theatre Royal on
Saturday night for Lthel Irving’s new piece,
"Lady Frederick.” They filled two boxes
comfortably, and the surplus aides flowed
over into the circle. Lady Denman, in a
robe of black and gold, and wearing dazzling
diamonds on her neck, and more diamonds
in her hair, looked slender and smart. The
G.-G. himself, very calm and satisfied with
bis new billet, sat alongside, and a brace of
reverent aides lurked in the shadows. In
the lower box the Barttelot pair had Miss
Quirk for company. Lady Barttelot wore her
hair in natural black curls, and was wrapped
in a cherry-colored chiffon cloak with ermine
trimmings. Flowers swamped the ledges.
Miss Qujrk had yellow poppies on her black
dress and Lady Denman scarlet carnations.
It was a busy night in town. Round the
corner, “Miss Gibbs” was taking a long,
tumultuous farewell, amid speeches, flowers,
presents and applause; and the two audi :
ences were so well motored that, at break-up
time, the walking classes had to leap in two
directions at once to save hospital expenses.
The fact that Lady Denman’s father, Lord
Cowdray, made his money as a contractor for
gigantic undertakings all over the world, is a
reminder that a former occupant of Mel-
bourne Guv’mint House, Lord Brassey, owed ,
his presence hereabouts to a contractor —his
father. A Melbourne man remembers meet-
ing Cowdray (he was then Sir Weetman
Pearson) in Mexico, where he was casting a
critical eye over some extensive public works
tor which he had been responsible. After
that he got into oil; and incidentally he had
a great fight with the Standard Oil people—
a fight that is not over yet.
Lady Puller is the latest press agent for
Royal stodge and piffle. The lady sends
Lnglish papers to the “tenantry” in Vic-
toria s backblocks, and announces: “It is
especially desirable that Coronation num-
bers of good periodicals be sent to as many
as possible of the schools, and I therefore
appeal for gifts of English illustrated papers
giving pictures of the Coronation.” Poor
little Australian, maize-pulling and cow-
slaving when he should be at school, and his
glimmering intelligence of his own wondrous
country dimmed with stodgy English publi-
cations showing Royalty as it is not!
Lady Norah Noel, of the departed Sheffield
Choir* gushes over a dry remark made by
Acting-Prime Minister Hughes. At a dinner
at Menzies’, hosted by Hughes, she was telling
of a concert given in America by the Choris-
ters, at which Taft was present. The big
man asked the choir to sing Gor’ Save for
him. It obliged. The audience demanded
an encore. “That was just splendid,” gushed
the Lady Norah; “it seemed as if all the old
enmity had been wiped out by the singing of
our National Anthem.” “Yes,” said Hughes
musingly, “it was quite a leg-up for Royalty,
wasn’t it?”
John Madden’s spouse took charge of the
Victorian Bush Nursing Association’s meet-
ing on Thursday, and for the vacant Beech
Forest appointment selected Nurse Tucker.
The lady is a prominent member of the Vic-
torian Trained Nurses’ Association, and was
working at a private hospital in South Yarra
when the Forest post was rendered vacant
through a male person tumbling off a rail-
way tricycle and falling in love with the
first Forester. At the same meeting, Nurse
Hurnall was appointed to the new Buchan
centre, and the Panmure station is to be
filled next.
People who love unnecessary fuss are
braying at South Melbourne. That suburb
actually allowed the new G.-G. to drive
through its streets without an ambuscade of
aldermen armed to the teeth with an address
of welcome.
Mrs. Pinschof and Mrs. Tallis together
hostessed a rhododendron-trimmed at
the Vienna last week, and Carmen, the pretty
Pinschof daughter (now Mrs. Harris), helped
in a dream of a turban. The new Conser-
vatorium was the chief topic. The musical
people have been squeezed out of the present
stronghold, and some of the teachers have
had to take refuge in private teaching rooms.
However, a suitable roomy building has been
secured in Yictoria-parade. It used to be a
pub, and it requires remodelling and decorat-
ing before topnotes are let loose in it. The
musical ones of Melbourne Society are
struggling to raise the necessary cash for the
work, and the Victorian Artists are helping
their neighbors with the revenue derived
irom the sale of the ball tickets. The fund will
be swelled further by an operatic matinee at
Her Majesty’s, on Thursday of Show Week
(September 7). -Florence Towl, the musi-
cally-distinguished ex-pupil who went off and
married Mainr Collins, of the Indian Army,
will appear in a scene from “Traviata.” Her
husband was lately ordered to Aden for some
months, and his singing wife took the oppor-
tunity to visit home.
The amateurs who played “Miss Hook of
Holland” are throwing up their Dutch hats
over a fine profit of £3OO. Another batch
of ambitious mimes, who followed on with
“Veronique,” fared badly. Their voices
proved to be inaudible to the paying gods,
who, losing patience, guyed the poor players
unmercifully. The Fuller pair were present
at the ordeal; but, despite this, the dress
circle was sparsely furnished with people in
evening clothes, and the shivering aides
crept out in' the interval through a waste of
untenanted seats. The leading lady—or the
lady who should have led—retired to bed at
the eleventh hour with influenza, and an
understudy had to do her best.
President Pirani and Vice-President Mrs.
Brennan conducted the Fuller lady round the
Women’s Hospital the other day. Every
baby got at least one kiss, and every avail-
able mother received a word of goo-goo ap-
proval from the star visitor.
Amidst the Coronating whirl in England,
Alexander Landale, one of Victoria’s sheep
barons, died in a train from heart
failure. Fairbairn, M.H.R., was waiting on
the platform for him, when a porter rushed
along with the startling news. After the
wedding of daughter Jessie, “Aroona” was
shut up, and all the family booked to Eng-
land. The tragedy happened on the door-
step of the gaieties they had been planning.
Our Dr. Dunhill, who went to London to
Coronate, has remained to be praised by
the faculty thereabout for his expert
knowledge of goitre. The Collins-street man
pulled a Dudley daughter through a severe
illness at Melbourne Government House; and
when the Dudley children departed to Eng-
land, the Countess asked him to travel by
the same boat. It was a rush, but he man-
aged to gain the gangway with a pair of
socks or so,. and sent wireless messages of
instruction to his locum tenens whpn the
liner was at sea.
Miss Brennan is the newest thing in Por-
tias locally. _ She comes second in the Vic-
torian feminine legal field. The first woman
lawyer here was Flora Greig. who broke
down after practising in Melbourne for
some years. Brother Frank acted as
Miss Brennan’s sponsor at the Full Court
ceremony. .
Pianist Hal Elvins is returning to these
parts at the end of the year. He has been
sitting at _ the feet of Continental masters,
strengthening the keyboard knowledge gained
at the Melbourne “Con.” At present he has
an engagement for a Norwegian and Russian
tour with a company that includes Bokken
Lassen, a Norwegian prima donna, and
Andrea Ferrier, a fine baritone who is likely
to invade Australia soon.
A Melbournian who is jaunting in Paris
says he recently took 5 o’clock tea with
Addie Hine. She is with a “Quaker Girl”
co., and does a remarkable specialty dance
with another girl and a man.
Talking of striking features of the News-
boys’ Ball, most votes seemingly were scored
by Miss Ivy Clarke, Miss Esther Fairbairn,
and _ a very pretty girl who suggests the
heroine of a a rench novel. Ivy Clarke, -the
youngest daughter of the late Janet Lady,
is of the dainty, fluffy-liaired type that
finds fullest expression in Paris fixings, and
her mole might have been placed by an
artist. The Fairbairn charmer, for that
matter, is harmonious in everything but hex-
baptismal name. That is her false note.
A tall Amazonian figure, topped, by Titian
hair, doesn’t blend with “Esther.” It is the
name of a timid little mouse in an old-
fashioned love-tale, not to mention the self-
sacrificing daughter of Israel or Judah- who
gazes out of a picture in Melbourne’s Na-
tional Gallery.
Re Melbourne’s first brewer, John Mills.
His recently deceased widow, Hannah Robin-
son (she annexed the Robinson by a second
marriage), was not the devisee (as life
tenant) of all his property. Mills’s only
child, Emma, came in for two city blocks',
and several pf John’s brothers for other
pieces. Daughter Emma married W. A. C.
a’Beckett, eldest son of the first Chief Jus-
tice. A large slice of the propertv in Flin-
ders-street, on which Prell’s and other build-
ings now stand, was part of the Mills estate.
This was the site of the old Dundee Arms
Hotel, and the widow had a life interest in
it. It was brought under the Transfer of
Land Act some years ago under circum-
stances that now threaten more Costs.
According to Arthur Levy, the manager
for Clarke and Meynell (who ought to be a
sound critic), the most beautiful of the
women in the Coronation show were Prin-
cess Patricia of Connaught and the Duchess
of Westminster. But, then, a little beauty
in a young princess, or the wife of a million-
aire duke, goes such a long way that even a
hardened connoisseur may succumb to the
glamor of Birth and Bullion. Levy came back
by the same boat as the G.-G. Denmans, who
greeted him as a confirmed courtier when
they found him in charge at the Royal on
Saturday night.
Thanks to the biograph, the stay-at-home
loyalists have had a chance to show their
respect for the Throne and Person. At
West’s, the other night, while the Corona-
tion film was wending its way across the
sheet, my view was frequently interrupted
by two of them rising every time the King’s
coach appeared. This happened about every
three minutes. I presume these people
wouldn’t dream of looking at a pill advt.
with the King in it without reverently re-
moving their lids.
I enjoyed the spectacle of the bishops
carrying the “props” for the ceremony into
the Abbey. One stout prelate bore his par-
ticular bauble on a cushion like a triumphant
butler bringing in a fine, fat turkey on a dish.
The struggle of the well-fed churchman to
get down the stone steps without tripping on
his flowing gown, or Spillihg the gravy,
made a much finer picture entertainment
than the monotonous pageant in black and
white.
Miss Nancy Madden and her chubby sisters
(of the Frank, not the John, branch of the
family) have lost none of their old ardor for
Glassy Harem skating; some other devoted
patrons or yore are, however, missing. The
Tait damsel is gone for ever, along with
popper; other girls and boys went Coronat-
ing; and Bob Jackson, the star expert, is
turning his legs to_ cash account on the
Clarke-Meynell stage. But the Maddens glide
as. before, and Miss Nancy is the moving
spirit, or genial soul, of a hockey set which
chases the flying ball on Saturday after-
noons, and doesn't look quite complete with-
out an honorary sawbones in attendance.
The late Martin Cussen, M.L.A., was an
irrigation enthusiast and a good fellow per-
sonally ; but he did his irrigating on the Rod-
ney Water Trust, which, although it shouted
liberally for the countryside, found it hadn’t
enough money in its pocket after many
rounds of drinks. A goodly portion of the
score is still chalked up.
McCall, who, as Usher of the Legislative
Council, used to bow three times for every
sentence he uttered, and back out of the
Chamber after announcing the approach of
an Excellency who was already on hand, has
been moved up one. He is now Assistant
, Clerk of the Council, and has done with
Black Rodding.
Acting-Premier Watt’s suggestion, that
three males be appointed to keep six fatherly
eyes on our mob of assorted charities, has
raised a silken rustle of indignation. “Why
should not one of the members be a woman?”
is being repeated over and over again in the
committee rooms. Almost every charity
here is engineered largely by women, and the
sex feels that it is entitled to have one rep.
anyhow on the supreme body. Mr. Watt’s
proposal seems to argue that the sex which
makes a dissipation of collecting subscrip-
tions and selling tickets has no “head for
figures,” whereas Jane, Ethel and Tabitha
protest that balance-sheet results have proved
them, to be much less unbusinesslike than they
are painted. In face of a common enemy the
most diverse winter jackets stand shoulder to
shotilder, and every variety of hatpin is
drawn for action.
An extremely young divorce in elevated
society had almost reached the court stage,
but has been settled, more or less happily,
without the help of his ’Onah and the daily
papers. The pair have decided to remain
hitched —in the eyes of the world, anyhow.
Another domestic trouble has been ended by
a judicial separation. The separated lady
and her daughter have retired to the coun-
try, while the husband remains in town to
support existence, with the help of his club.
Melba has called her new home near Lily-
dale Goombe. Cottage, after a place she used
to dote on at Coombe in the vicinity of the
occasionally-mentioned Thames.
The town has been overrun by wild and
woolly men down for the. Sheepbreeders’
bhow. The men who exhibit the sheep are
always wild—-except the man who owns the
champion. And what slaves they are to the
beasts! Well-fed, autocratic men were
everywhere assuring city friends that thev
would have to be back at the rooms by a cer-
tain time to feed the heaps of wool, or were
trying to remember what time the Duke and
Duchess of Merino usually dined. No paid
employee (with or without encumbrance )
was allowed to wait unaided on these over-
coated monopolisers of broad acres. Scott’s,
Menzies’ and other taverns foolishly neglect
to have grass paddocks attached'to their
premises; so Squattocracy had to cut its
Sunday dinner short in order to rush round
to Goldsbrough’s store, where the pampered
beasts were staying, and hand them their re-
freshments before closing time. In the ab-
sence of strawberries, they .condescended to
m finch turnips, carrots and similar trifles.
My Adelaide correspondent writes:—
For many weeks the local peerage was busy talking
about old silver, and examining the marks on its
electro-plate, and it all culminated in a “silver-show”
at Government House, whereat, for half a crown, you
could pace the vice-regal carpets, drink tea, and gaze
at spoons and teapots, and inwardly rejoice or fume
at the worth (or otherwise) of your own part of the
show. It was surprising l how much old ware turned
up for exhibition. All for charity, of course, and
charity should be several coins richer.
.Premier Verran is determined to make some
change in Government House. If he can’t move the
whole affair, he’s at least going to move the wall;
and he won’t have to climb over our corpses to do
it. The present stolid, grimy stone affair is an eye-
sore, and merits its Ministerial description of “gaol-
like.”
. The , .Hunt Club’s Point-to-Point Steeplechase
brought crowds of road followers, who were agree-
ably surprised by a decent day. Honors were divided
between Mr. Cudmore, on Texas, and one of the
Colleys, on Landrost. Queerly, these are the two
who were so badly shaken in the amateur steeple at
Oakbank, so Landros_’s close win was watched with
double interest. Both riders are keen horsemen, and
good sportsmen. The- liquor strike was responsible
for an absence of anything stronger than tea —which
fact should rejoice the Premier’s heart. He advo-
cates the sun-down closing of all hotels! •
The Wattle Day League .is getting to work. A box
of the bloom has been despatched to the Wide Com-
missioner, so that it may be displayed at the Colonial
Oflice on September 1. And a school children’s com-
petition has been floated, with prizes on offer for
essays, sketches and the like. On September 1 you
may expect to hear of us all being smothered in
yellow, and very patriotic.
The Denmans will form no good impression of us
this time. The day they arrived was damp and vile,
so that official visits were dashed through in pelting
showers and splashing mud.
Talking of Governors, the Ladies’ Field tangled
itself in its Coronation number, and established a
vice-regal scandal. The photographs of Lady Bosan-
quet and Lady Chelmsford got mixed, with painful
results.
Mayor and Mayoress Prosser, of Norwood, gave a
combined concert and dance the other night. There
were pink roses and asparagus fern, likewise a pleas-
ing innovation—huge fires in the dressing-room.
This is where the maiden wallflower goes to hide
her diminished head, and it seems hard that it is
usually her lot to be frozen as well as ignored.
There has been trouble as a result of the City Cor-
poration taking over the strip of plantation along
North Terrace. Like all bodies of the sort, it has a
malign passion for “rockeries.” Till now the plan-
tations have been barren of flowers, but they have
boasted decent lawns and shady trees. The trees
are vanishing, turf is being removed in large areas,
and cartloads of rough stone are arriving. North
Terrace residents have raised a howl of protest •
Town Clerk Ellery replies that the scheme adopted
will be a “vast improvement” ; and Professor Stirling
and Dr. Poulton have joined in the frav. The casual
outsider can’t form an opinion at this stage, but one
thing is sure —the rockery mania has rendered Mel-
bourne sufficiently hideous, and this place, in sum-
mer, can stand such things far less than the Vic-
torian capital.
This week-end the Hunt club was to w-,. ~
Strathalbyn, ana a Utixicc iiiiu o tiler were
\ is ncell «i- After
strathalbyn’s S ar Jack ” Butler > one of
businesi^Tade^hta r St P^^ tt
and there’s not a traveller but will 4
his hand-grip. wIU 111188 hls smlle
has been a black week all round. At Port
.fr”® Pr L- ris mg man in his profession died
from C Melbonrne a J e ?L da / s ’J lln< ® s ; now comes
Hard work resulted in°a -enertf f !,r°e f a k<kf rt ”
went away for rest and ehansre i„a k ;, an<l he
£> late. 7 His wife was. a ®
family > and an off-shoot of the
P T 00 u .
Newman, who made a hiTTlurnirr nC n of , stanle - v
The papers speak of his artistic Ind dramS
as well as of his voice. J. C. Williamson
p° wers > and made more than one attempt to tret him
oper i J r ; but tbe sin ffer pitches his ambi-
minister? who announced his intention of M quittto£
the. Church if the son reflected on his
takin §: to the sinful stage.
Sincerely yours,
‘
JOHANNA.


m
»-■ V ;
**¥ ">''
■> v- ■■ '***&? v>:
s
3
C
H
i H
l W
■M
«! ■>
m
\-x *
:
m
m
.*f*;
•••
fe ri
t
.^■' :
Sl 'm
W&Jt
‘
M
c
If
§Bl
>. j >.-
c
K:<
I' ‘
1
■
V-
i I m
\
m
11 ■
> ■ - . ■:
kSmn
i -
■
gjr
IfSPV
■
h
¥:si
JOSEPH SiMPSO
~ ' '
Copyright and property of John Dewar & Sons, Ltd., Distillers to His Majesty the King, H.I.M. the German Emperor,
H.M. the King of Spain , and H.M. the King of Sweden.


cm6'::
r,i*.
rny
Cu4tor*v*i(<S'.
.s*** yfa&trni Hsu.-,
\>t 2^u'mA&is. £•.';':
IF you hold four of a kind you've
got a full hand, but if the
kind be
WATSON’S
NO. 10 WHISKY
You’ve just the loveliest, mellow
kindly feeling a fellow can have.
No bite in it—so smooth,
so luscious!
RELIEVED AFTER MANY YEARS.
“Chamberlain’s Tablets have been the means of
relieving me of indigestion,” writes Mr. James
Coffey, ex-Station Master at Mentone, Vic. “I was
for many years with the Victorian Railways, but
am now retired. In the rush of work there one is
apt to neglect oneself and fly to all sorts of alleged
remedies. In Chamberlain’s Tablets I have found
the right one and the best one I have ever tried.
These tablets are a certain cure for indigestion.”*
Covered with a Rash
♦— ; —
.Distressing Case that Continued
until Blood Treatment
was Tried.
Impurities in the blood causing Skin
Rashes and Eczema can be treated satis-
factorily only by driving the impurities
from the system. That is really the only
common-sense way. Ointments and greasy
things to rub on often make matters worse
by clogging the pores.
Mr. M. O’Mara, of 409 Lonsdale Street,
Melbourne, found his life miserable for
months with Eczema, drawing not a par-
ticle of benefit from all the things he rubbed
on. He finally cured himself with Dr. Wil-
liams’ Pink Pills, which have a specific ac-
tion on the blood and are strongly recom-
mended in these cases.
“For months I suffered with Eczema,”
said Mr. O’Mara. “It appeared first on
my arms, then it spread down the front of
my body, on my thighs and as far as the
calves of my legs, in the form of a dry
scale, which you could rub off in a white
powder. If I rubbed the skin hard it would
go quite raw and inflamed. I could not go
to business for some weeks, as my clothes
irritated the parts dreadfully. Countless
tiny red pimples, with matter, would push
through the skin and itch, and a rash would
come out in large patches. I might say
that my poor body was covered with small
sores, and as fast as some would go others
would come. I got very thin. I could not
eat or sleep for the terrible itching. I was
told if I took mineral water baths I would
get better, so I went to Dalesford and took
them for weeks, and they didn’t do me any
good. I bought some ointment and took
sulphur, thinking that might cure me, but
it did not. It would only stop the itching
for a little while. I grew quite ill, with
worry and weakness. I thought I was per-
manently affected, when one day I read that
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills had cured Eczema,
so I sent at once and got some, and took
between nine and ten boxes, and here is the
result. I am completely cured, and my skin
is as clean as ever it was. If it had not
been for Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills I don’t
think I would ever have got better. I am
sure no one has ever suffered more than I
did, and after trying various treatments, for
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills to cure me proves
their worth. I shall speak well of them
wherever I am.”
The price is 2/9 per box, six boxes 15/3
and if you have trouble in getting them send
a postal note for the amount to the Dr.
Williams’ Medicine Co. of Australasia Ltd.,
Sydney, and they will be sent post free by
return mail.
iuPTCIRE 4
I
Our large
stock of the
latest Trusses
for all kinds
of Hernia is
a real boon
to sufferers.
D e n y e r’s
Special
Elas t i o
Truss, fitted
to size, ends
qenyer
©
Single, 17/6;
Double, 22/6
Call or write.
all trouble, discomfort and fear.
DENYER BROS., Truss & Abdominal Belt Makers,
281 GEORGE STREET(opp. Hunter St.), SYDNEY ;
and at Melbourne, cr. Swanston & Lonsdale Streets.
POLITICAL
POINTS
AWFUL THREAT.
Lord Denman, the new Governor-General, will
come to Sydney in the middle of September, and the
question of the occupancy of the Sydney Government
House will be considered. —Daily paper.
HOLMAN: “ Can't come in .”
NEW GOV. -G ENERAL: "Very well. You'll
find out , I won't open a single bazaar for
you !”
The Australian (Sydney) Gaslight mon-
opoly, which is so hard hit by the Federal
Land Tax that it can’t afford to reduce the
price of gas, has just donated 50 guineas to
the fund to erect a statue in Sydney to
King Edward. And it didn’t even consult
the poor millionaire widow about it, either.
Treasurer Vaughan (S.A.), in his new
District Councils Bill, has provided that
parsons, if the ratepayers want them, may
be elected to District (municipal) Councils.
Hitherto, they have been barred, just as they
have been shut out from the State Parlia-
ment
Sydney D.T. claims that Wade’s pairing
agreement with McGowen has been kept “to
the letter.” And as to the spirit? “Oh,
yes,” said the fine sportsman in effect: “I
won’t interfere with your horse. He can
have a straight run.” But, though he didn't
interfere with the horse, he had a word or
two with the rider.
After all the scream about “caucus
tyranny,” “rigid machine politics,” and “hide-
bound organisation,” the heroic Wade bullied
Bathurst-member J. J. Miller so loudly and
publicly that the latter injured person was
driven to tender his resignation from the “Lib-
eral” party and from Parliament. But no
squeal for individual liberty of conscience
came from the Tory press.
Another “Liberal” myth has gone to smash.
Only for the cursed caucus lots of
“Liberals” were in the habit of alleging they
would vote Labor. They need have no com-
punction now. Last week the S. M. Herald,
which is the “Liberals’ ” Holy Writ, came
out with a column headed “The Liberal
Caucus : Mr. Wade’s Version.” This was
the secret meeting, the jumbled particulars
of which Mr. Wade says the press obtained
by sinister means. Still, next day, the D.T.
used the word “caucus” no less than 10
times for the same old scare purposes.
The most regrettable outcome of the
N.S.W. political tangle is the resignation of
Nielsen as Minister for Lands. Nielsen
proved himself one of the most strenuous, the
most far-sighted, and the most fearless of
Lands Ministers known to this generation.
But his no-more-freeholds policy scared the
as yet unenlightened country cocky, and
future generations of cockies, whom Nielsen
wanted to safeguard, unfortunately haven’t
got votes. So, rather than back down one
inch, the implacable Minister resigned his
job, and Fred Flowers, the Government
rep., in the Home for Old Men, succeeds
him.
Savs the Sydney Telegraph :
The position of the Government would be none
the less humiliating, since a Ministry which de-
pended on any sort of bargain with the Opposition
would be able to command no respect from either
the House or the country.
Yet, if Wade could only win the two vacant
seats, he would grab office and piit up with
all the “humiliation” of having to depend on
a bargain with the Independents. Probably
he would “command no respect from either
the House or the country,” but he would cer-
tainly command all the support that the
Telegraph could give him.
The progressive land tax is having good
effects in the most unexpected places. Though
it doesn’t touch the way-out or any other
leaseholds, it is leading to the improvement
of the back country, where those leaseholds
prevail. In this way. Sheep-owners who
have had to move on from runs which
ought years ago to have been under cultiva-
tion are picking up remote lands, and water-
ing and otherwise improving them ; and while
that means more employment at the moment,
it will also mean bigger and surer produc-
tion in the future.
It is understood that the union of Tory
political bodies in Victoria is being greatly
hindered by the obstreperousness of the
Wimmen’s League. This curious crowd has
a platform of its own, and has been insisting
on the inclusion of" some of its planks in the
general programme of the amalgamated
parties. The ladies have been especially
pressing about the planks relating to “Purity
of the ‘Ome” and “Loyalty to the Throne” ;
but the Commonwealth “Liberals” refuse to
accept such rotten and superfluous pieces of
wmod. The result is a pretty conflict, in
which both sides are showing a spirit of
dreadful independence.
The N.S.W. Government had an expert on
the spot, and well advanced with his in-
quiries into the possibilities of an iron and
steel industry in N. S. Wales, before any-
thing at all was known about the matter.
The expert is F. W. Paul, late general man-
ager of the Scotland Steel Co. The Gov-
ernment has in its mind the establishment of
State works, partly for its own supply, partly
as a Socialistic aid to that brand of Private
Enterprise to which iron and steel are raw
material. It is mainly on the latter ground,
by the way, that Wm. Sandford, the founder
of the iron industry (what there is of it) in
Australia, has all along claimed that pig-
iron making, at least, should be a State job.
Coombe, who has hurt the feelings of the
“Liberal” party in S.A., by voting for the
Labor Government in the last no-confidence
motion, has dubbed his late leader, Peake, a
“revolutionary Conservative.” If Peake was
in England, says his late colleague, he
would not be as advanced as Balfour or
Lansdowne even, but would be howling down
Liberalism and Democracy with Hugh Cecil
and Willoughby de Broke. Coombe at
present is a party by himself, with a leaning
towards Labor; he is the real author of the
Council Veto Bill, which Attorney-General
Denny has been pushing through the S.A.
Assembly.
The Fat Landlords of the Weary State
are already at their old game of postponing
democratic measures, so that, later on, they
can protest against being rushed into passing
hasty legislation The other evening
stodgy Embling calmly took the control ot
business out of the hands of the Government
by moving that the Scaffolding Inspection
Bill be considered that day fortnight. Attor-
ney-General Dry Brown was perturbed, but,
after a feeble protest, agreed. He had to.
THE CRY FROM THE TOP.
“ Here , leave me alone , Hughes; leave me
alone! You musn't touch me — you're a
Minister , y' know, and must be impartial."
The village pump is a hardy vegetable in
N.S.W. For example, that anaemic giantess,
the S. M. Herald, says concerning the
Liverpool Plains election :
Mr. Perry represented the district in the Legisla-
tive Assembly for three years. While in the House,
however, he secured £14,000 to provide a water
supply for the town. The remembrance of that
little service will not do Mr. Perry any harm in the
present campaign, and many Liberals assert that he
will receive more support than would have been
forthcoming had anyone else been chosen to run in
the Liberal interest.
In plain words: “I’m no good as a states-
man, and can’t legislate for sour apples; but
I’m a perfect hero in milking the State cow
in Sydney. I may be silent in the House,
but you should hear my speeches to the
Works Department!”
The dairymen of the N.S.W. South Coast
met recently, and discussed the price of milk.
The milk companies in Sydney control the
price to their own advantage, and the dairy-
men reckon it about time they had a speak.
One member stated that the farmers should
work in unison, and thus be in a position
to fix the price—9d, per gallon in winter, 7d.
in summer. Failing that, they should keep
the milk at home, and thus promptly bring
the cos. to reason. Yet the Cow men, who
followed those remarks with loud applause,
are shocked at the Rural Workers’ Union
demanding a living wage, or, indeed, at the
farm hands wanting to form a union at all,
and when a strike is even hinted at —in
other words, when men propose to keep
their labor at home —these one-eyed teat-
pullers immediately go into hysterics about
“these Socialistic Labor agitators.”
‘THAT ABOVE ALL!’
Treas. Yaughan (S.A.) told the Assembly
that the State lost £IO,SOO by its ven-
ture in the “egg circle” business which
was started 5y Lands Minister Coombe in the
time of the p eake Government, and was
wotmd up by the Verran Cabinet. “We have
some old stock on han d ,” added the Trea-
surer) presumably as a hint to politicians to
C ome in and take the over-ripe goods off the
market before the next election comes
around.
Frank Wilson’s
Westralian Govern-
ment tries hard to
dodge the knock-out
blow in store for it at
the October elections,
and bit by bit it has
adopted most of La-
bor’s platform. Lately,
the Acting-Premier al-
most tearfully prom-
ised that, if returned
to power, his party
would bring in a
Workers’ Homes Bill.
But, in connection
with most of this so-
cial legislation, it is
the administration
that counts; and you
can’t get sympathetic
administration of La-
bor measures from a
“Liberal” crowd, which
has only passed them
with its tongue in its cheek.
John Quick’s foolish outburst in the vain
baiting of Andrew Fisher by wild-eyed “Im-
perialists” was to be expected, for John has
of late years regarded himself as being very
near to the Throne. When he received his
tinpot knighthood—a contemptuous K.B. —
John said humbly that the honor was too
great for the man; but, he added, “Her
Majesty knows best.” Her Majesty at the
time was poor, weary Queen Victoria, who
knew no more about John than a crocodile
knows about the water-beetle that basks on
one of its scales.
“Tommy” Taylor, the Maoriland M.H.R.,
true to his lifelong fad, gave the watercart a
final push just before Death turned his light
down. With his last fluttering breath he
sent the following message to the party:
“1911 is our year of emancipation, if we are
true to God and our opportunities.” In
other words, “Bog in for the national prohi-
bition issue at the local-option poll in
November.”
CONGRUITIES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
.Australians, whilst remembering Empire Day,
would never forget that the foundation of New South
Wales was on January 26. — N.S.W. Yellow orator.
We must remember Empire Day
And tales of British glory ;
We must remember George and May
And all the silly story ;
So, also, let our hope be flxt
On Jannery the twenty-sixt’.
For on that day did England’s fame
Begin on seas Pacific;
On that glad day the Ships of Shame,
With gallows scientific,
And lash and gyve and ball and chain,
Swung dolefully into the Main.
The rich, who’d stolen land and chance,
Built prisons for the starving;
The little thief in air must dance
(The lords the land were carving) ;
And if not worth a tinker’s dam,
You’d hang for sheep or hang for lamb!
They would not change the laws that bound
The masses to grow thinner;
The starving serf old Newgate found
A gallows for a dinner;
And so they sent them oversea —
Gaolers and chains and felonry.
There are some days we’ll not forget—
The day of old Eureka,
When British bureaucrats had yet
Not made a “traitor” —Speaker!
Nor of that day when Sydney Quay
Saw the last convict ship to sea.
There was a day ten years agone
That saw the borders ’minished,
When the unnamed Republic lone
With Little Statehoods finished,
And Nationhood rose from its knees
In this White Island walled with seas.
But these are days too good to link
With false Imperial glory,
With faked reports, and facts that blink,
And sham, and perjured story ;
So those with whom the “Empire’s” fixt
May take the shameful twenty-sixt’.
VICTORIA.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
MIXED FEELINGS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There are things more unlikely than that the
Weary-Watt Government will try to make an elec-
tion war-cry out of “Good roads.”—B. 20/7/’ll.
“The remedy? Roads! ... I feel very keenly
for these people. I feel not only for the strong-
hearted men, but for the women and children. . . .
In many localities there are no schools and no roads.”
-— Acting-Minister for Public Works of Victoria,
“interviewed” by the Argus, 1/8/Tl.
I feel for the farming throng
Who struggle with mud-caked boots,
For the Cowmen sad who long
For a bag of Latin roots.
I feel for the Cowman’s son
Who toils till he’s quite a fool;
Who studies when work is done
And trudges to work from school.
For the farmer great or small,
I feel till I’m feeling blue ;
I feel for his kids and all
Of his ten-bob toilers too.
For the folk who Labor d —n
With Liberal blasts of H —l,
I’m feeling for them I am —
And I’m, feeling for votes as well!
VICTORIA.
FRANK HENTY.


THe
<sr
LEADING HOUSE
FOR
PIANOS
STEINWAY BRINSMEAD
FEORICH
THE PIANOS INVARIABLY SELECTED
BY
THE WORLD’S GREATEST ARTISTS.
EASY TERMS.
NICHOLSON 8 CO.
LIMITED,
Sydney,
Brisbane,
Newcastle
Toowoomba
Orange,
Warwick.
Picture Showmen!
THERE IS NO TIME TO LOSE.
THE NEXT OF THE
PATHE Star Series:
“La Jacquerie,”
or “The First Bid for
Freedom in France.”
Book this Film for your Picture Theatre
and secure your Posters and Souvenirs
AT ONCE!
No Show Can Afford to be without this
STRIKING and MAGNIFICENT PRODUCTION.
Pathe
50 Queen St.,
MELBOURNE.
ħ
Freres,
51 Elizabeth St.,
SYDNEY.
Foremost in Fashion!
Farmer’s Victor Saits
Ready-to-Wear.
h
The quality beneath the surface is a factor
often overlooked when buying- a Suit of Clothes.
Linings and Trimmings determine the life of
a suit just as much as the Material, and in this
particular direction FARMER'S “VICTOR”
SUITS are thorough. The Linings are of the
best quality, the Material the best and smartest
obtainable, and the Cut, Style and General
Appearance of every “Victor” Suit defies any-
one but an expert to distinguish it from
made-to-measure garments.
In Navy Serge, with fashionable shoulders,
extra length, the new long roll collar.
Prices 355., 405., 455., 505.,
555. and 635. the Suit.
Rough Navy Serge: Price 50s.
the Suit.
Tweeds: Prices 55s., 40s., 45s. to 63s.
the
Suit.
FARMER’S, Sydney
tot
4
7
/
the
ana y^i£
Vacmarl
It do
tee
9 ' J <*
4


ROWLAND’S
KALYDOR
FOR - Sill
Produces soft, fair, delicate skin, heals all
cutaneous eruptions, and injures a lovely
delicate complexion to all who use it*
2/3,. 4/6, of Stores and Chemists.
Make^
your
own
Cigarette
IHO
twice 1
as gooey
CIGARETTE
PAPER
IF NOT PROCURABLE AT YOUR
TOBACCONIST APPLY TO THE AGENTS
Jacobs Bros. 12? 2S5 a George S? Sydney
THE “MOTA
(Regd.).
99
HAT
THE man who studies style and comfort in hat
has more than a DESIRE for the “ M° ta „ 1
has a NEED for one. For the Mota at a
small price is the most comfortable and most ms-
tinctivelv stylish Soft Felt of the day.
For motoring, cycling, riding, driving and genera
wear for town and country it is the Ideal Hat.
The material is good-it will wear well; the brim
and crown is easily adapted—it will suit vonrst •
Prices 7/6 to 12/6. in all fashionable colors, at
leading stores throughout Australia. .
The name “ Mota” is registered, and the design
also. Beware of infringements.
If unobtainable in your district, write us direct.
THE AUSTRAL HAT MILLS, LIMITED,
ABBOTSFORD, MELBOURNE.
’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE.
West Australian Agents—RICHARD HOLM’'
NO PRESERVATIVES.
f, CO-, PERTH, KALQOBRLIE and COOtCARBIE.
Brkwery and Offices :
Dowling Street, REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
After the declaration of first forfeits, 110
entrants were left in the Caulfield Cup and 150 in
the Melbourne Cup, which shows clearly enough that
the price of the second forfeits ought to be raised
for both events. If owners choose, with non-sporting
motives, to lumber the list of “first acceptances”
with a lot of dummy candidates, they should be re-
quired to pay a penalty of (say) £lO a head to the
stake for these flat-catching animals. Every horse
that remains in the race for months, without a
million-to-one chance of winning it, is merely a snare
for the careless quids of ignorant punters. By the
way, one that dropped out of the Caulfield Cup a
day or two before the declaration of first forfeits was
Grafton King, which had been reasonably suspected
of a good chance. Punters are grateful for small
mercies in these matters. Had Grafton King been a
“first acceptor ” he would have brought a lot more
grist to the mill of Moses. As it was, he must have
tempted many punters to take 100 to 1 about him,
although the price should have warned them that the
“books” foresaw a scratching.
The quality of the rank-and-file hurdlers
just now must be poor indeed. Towards the finish
of the Australian Hurdles at Caulfield last Saturdav.
the top-weights Arquebuse and Obi (first and third
in the Grand National a month ago) were the only
two in it. Obi was leading the S’Australian cham-
pion at the last jump, where he blundered and fell,
nearly bringing his follower to grief with him. Yet,
in spite of this serious interference, Arquebuse could
win, the pace at the finish being very slow—slower
than it usually is on the sandy Caulfield course when
there has been no rain to bind it. What price, then,
the little crowd that couldn’t pace it with the top-
weights ? Arquebuse, after lying back a long way,
strode past them as though they were roadsters.
And this is the animal whose contemptible per-
formances a week or two previous to his G. N. win
were declared by the V.R.C. stewards to be “quite
satisfactory” ! Or the stable’s explanation was “quite
satisfactory,” which amounts to the same thing.
The Australian Steeple next Saturday promises a
better race. There seems to be a reasonable chance
of something turning up (for the Ring) in front of
Grafnax, Confide, Field Trial and old Bribery—-the
favorites at time of writing. Among commonplace
performers, with little to carry, Leah Kleshna has a
chance on her Flemington running, and Southerly
(on the 9st. mark) is much improved of late. The
awful length of the journey may enable Leah to plod
home ahead of them all.
* •* * *
The Bananaland House of Fat turned it-
self into the House of the Fat Bookmaker last week,
when the Police Offences Bill was under considera-
tion. Among others, E. J. Stevens, of the Courier,
unloaded a vast quantity of misinformation. He
wept over the poor farmer who would be ruined if
he couldn’t sell half a ton of hay to the racehorse-
owner, because, of course, “horseracing would be
impossible without bookmakers.” It was a dreadful
thing to say about hbrseracing, and if it was true
horse-racing ought to be abolished. But only an
Australian Legislative Councillor could be so ignor-
ant as not to know that horse-racing in S. Aus. only
began to flourish when the totalisator arrived and
the bookmaker was abolished utterly. In fact, in
the days of the bookmaker in S. Aus., horse-racing
was so utterly dead in that State that some of the
old local events were actually run in another State.
The Victorian Racing Club’s report re-
flects the gilt with which these boom days are plas-
tered. The club paid out £57,723 in prize-money
during the season ( £4249 more than the previous
term), and yet ended with a profit of £9316. The
Jubilee Cup meeting carried a profit of £14,164 :
but there was a loss on the Autumn and Winter
meetings. The V.R.C. begins the season with build-
ings, etc., valued at £181,487, and a credit balance
of £32.990. #
Adelaide Racing Club has just on 500
entries for its two days’ Grand National meeting.
Till three years ago, the number (with six events a
day) was under 300, and even with seven it has
stuck at 400 till now. The Fulham Park Plate, for
two-year-olds, has gone up from 13 entries to 53
which looks good for the future. The club has fixed
up with the Adelaide Corporation a long extension of
its lease of a slice of the park lands, so the citizens
will continue to get free racing on the flat; and the
lawns, being things of beauty, are just the place for
a municipal garden party.
* * * *
The annual wash-up at the end of the
M.L. racing season shows Soult at the head of win-
ning stallions for the third year with £18,4831,
the greatest amount ever credited to a sire in one
season’s racing in the Dominio-*. Merriwee, with
£10,926*, has changed places with Stepniak, being
second; and Birkenhead, £.10.797J, is third. The
list of winning horses is topped by Danube (£3185),
which preserved an unbeaten three-year-old record.
Culprit landed £2665, Waimangu £2360, Madam
Madcap £l9OO, Equitas £1789, Lady Medallist
£1640, and Los Angeles £1620. G. D.
Greenwood captured £BO4 5 in stakes, George
Clifford £6987 and J. D. Ormond £6175. Jockey
H. Gray rode 78 winners on the flat, and W. Young
27 firsts over the jumps. Young also rode 31 win-
ners on the flat, and is a versatile sort of youngster,
scoring over hurdles, big country, and on the flat,
and he piloted a second in a trot.
* * * *
With the worthy object of encouraging
equine “stayers,” the Ilawkes Bay -l ockey Club
("M.L.) has, after a five years’ battle, got the M.L.
Racing Conference to rule that there shall be in
every day’s racing at least one race of H mile or
over. And the crowd that has for years been breed-
ing weeds for gambling purposes —what time they
kidded the multitude that their object was to im-
prove the blood-horse, on patriotic grounds—has been
blaspheming ever since. # #
The Australasian Rugby League team
heaved its presentation bags aboard the Orvieto on
Saturday, and left for England, where 35 matches
(including three tests —one each at Newcastle, Edin-
burgh and Birmingham) will comprise the labors ot
the tour. The band is youthful, the oldest of the
team being 29; therefore, the programme shouldnt
be more than it can satisfactorily handle with credit.
The enterprising Svdnev Sun “wirelessed the team
the results of Saturday’s football; but how many
appreciated the news depends on their ability to
side-step sea sickness.
The League football team, which left Syd-
ney for England on Saturday, took with it this “war-
cry” :
Murr-ah-wuh goo-le-ah bar-ah-gid-ee ngnea-ann-ee,
Will-ah-wirr-ah burr-an-gid-ee,
Burr-an-dah curr-ah-dill-ee,
Dhrou-001-coo-lee ah coo-mul-lah-gid-ee,
800 tha-ngnea-ann-ah-man coo-mul-lah-ngoon-gul,
Tul-ah-wee-ar dhit-ah-null-ee wail-wirr-ee nug-gun-
mun,
Too-rall-dhill-ee wull-un-do-wan-gan,
Coo - mull - gee-wung-gun nur-ah-moo-gah-mull-ah-
gah-lah,
Narr-an-ooh-ngea-murr-00-lin-whoo.
The Bulletin offers a few remarks in the same
tongue:—
Dro-pthi-s infe-rna lr-ot.
Isn-tgoo-daust rali-angoo-deno ugh !
Yo-ucom efro-maw-hitema nscou-nt ry,
Whi chwa-ntsto-bek now-nasaw hitema-nsco-un-
try,
An-dtoat-trac toth-erwhi-tem en —
Whe-reyo uca-ntse eabla-ckma-non ceinab-luemo on.
Do-ntb eaf-001.
N.S.W. was “tried high” by being pitted
against Victoria for the first match of the Australian
football carnival in Adelaide. The Sydney men got
a strong reinforcement from Broken Hill, which
plays nothing else, but a mixed team takes some
time to get together, and at half-time the Melbourne
men had 9 goals 10 behinds to 5 goals 3 behinds.
Afterwards Ma more than held her own, thanks to
some almost “record” straight shooting for goal, and
she lost only by 13-18 to 11-6. Pincombe., of Broken
Hill, got three of the goals; but, for Victoria, Lee
and Gardiner kicked four each. Other two-division
teams are Westralia (Coast and Goldfields) and Tas-
mania (North and South), but Vic. and S.A. rely on
their metropolitan clubs only. Queensland is the
only State missing from the carnival, and even she
sends delegates to the football council, which is
sitting simultaneously.
STEVEN.
SON , CHAM-
PION BIL-
LIARDIST,
FROM
ENGLAND.
The dropping- of players into the depart-
ing League team for England made no difference in
the energy of Saturday’s Rugby League competition
in Sydney. The feature of the day was Eastern
Suburbs’ defeat of South Sydney by 24 points to 14.
It was a stirring exposition of football, in which Mes-
senger’s right boot recorded six goals (four from
tries and two penalties). In the other matches,
Glebe had a runaway win over Newtown by 21 points
to 3 ; Western Suburbs defeated Annandale by 13 to
3; and Balmain wiped out N. Sydney by 15 to 6.
Glebe has now been lifted to the table-top with 18
points; South Sydney has 16, E. Suburbs 14, New-
town 13. The other clubs are out of the hunt. The
strenuous play throughout these matches gave an
extra spurt to the ambulance folk; and the supply
of sticking-plaster and bandages must have well-nigh
run out ere the day ended.
Queensland Rugby League XIII. suffered
a further indignity on Saturday in a defeat by a
Newcastle-Maitland touring team —19 points to 9.
The victory is. likely to cool the anger of some of the
touring team who missed a berth to England. Ban-
analand is evidently a long way to rearward, so far
as the League brand of football is concerned.
N.S.W. Rugby Union team defeated
Queensland on Saturday at Brisbane, by 24 points
to 3, and thereby retrieved some of the reputation
lost through its annihilation by Central Queensland
at Mount Morgan on the previous Wednesday. Only
4000 patronised the side-show, which doesn’t over-
crowd faith in the Union game keeping its financial
feet in the northern section of Australia.
The monetary result of the Maoriland
Rugby League’s recent roam through Australia shows
League football to be a payable mine. The M.L.
share of the gate was £4OOO ; expenses took £lOOO,
and the balance will buttress the League game in
the Rickety Isles. While on tour, each player is
stated to have got a weekly £3 10s. ; and if this
branch of football can recompense so freely for “loss
of time,” it won’t be long before the haughty M.L.
Rugby Union begins to crack.
Saturday’s Soccer matches in Sydney
didn’t alter the positions much. Balmain still leads
for the Rawson Cup with 16 points; the Navy and
Granville come next with 15 each. Canterbury and
West Sydney are where the tin is that the dog drags
after his interview with the bad boys. Glebe, which
was third last week, has fallen to fifth. There were
only two Rawson Cup matches on Saturday. Sydney
beat Canterbury by 2 to 1, a match which didn’t
count much, as they have only 6 and 4 points re-
spectively. Granville and the Navy clashed at Lvne
Park, and neither side scored. West Sydney for-
feited to Newtown. For the Gardiner Cup, Balmain,
after having two attempts to down Corrimal —first
match stopped owing to bad light, second drawn—
won on the third attempt by 5 to 1. Balmain B
and Auburn Kia Ora drew, 1 goal each. Powerful
is the only team which has qualified for the third
round in the Gardiner Cup. #
Soccer football in Tasmania is to be
awakened by an invasion from N.S.W. —the initial
Soccer visit from Ma-land.
* * * *
There being no League ’ball in Melbourne
by reason of the Adelaide carnival, the Ass. seized
the chance of a fine fat “gate,” and staged its chief
attraction, Brunswick v. ’Scray, on the Metropolitan
Ground. When it was all over the crowd opined
that these Ass. teams play fast, clever and fair ’ball,
but lack earnestness and vim. Probably, for the
same reason, the umpiring bettered the League
article. ’Scray held its end up till half-time, then
went to pieces ; ’Wick won by 90 points to 53. None
of the other games amounted to a row of pins, and
the results made no difference—Essendon 132 points
to Preston’s 43, North’s 56 to Brighton’s 34, P’ran’s
66 to ’Town’s 39, and Port’s 83 to ’Cote’s 31.
A collision that deserved a good attendance, but
didn’t get it, was that between South Fremantle
and ’Roy. The ’Gropers were runners-up in their
League last season, and have been in the final four
ever since the beginning of things over there; but
though ’Roy spelled five of their best men, the
visitors had no hope of winning, and went out by
58 to 38. They are an earnest lot of boggers-m;
they got no financial assistance from their controll-
ing body, but raised the needed £350 themselves
before starting. #
The Law liad another try at suppressing the
uproarious barracker, and had as little luck as it
deserved, having summoned a ruffian for actually
calling an umpire a “rotter.” The beaks naturally
dismissed the case. The episode suggests that the
police are as blind to the barrackers’ faults as that
individual is to the umpire’s virtues. “Rotter” is
complimentary compared with some of the epithets
heaved at the official, to say nothing of pickets,
clods and other expressions.
* * * , *
H. C. A. Harrison, who claims to be the
(or a) founder of the Australian game of football,
has been giving some account of its beginnings. His
cousin T. W. Wills, the cricketer, coming back from
Rugby school in 1858, started to play with him, but
considered Rugby rules “too violent and dangerous.
We didn’t draw’ up any rules on paper, but made
them up as we went along. At that time it was
impossible to obtain the oval ball. ... I was cap-
tain of the original Melbourne club. We played for
about eight years without any definite rules. ... In
1866, at the Freemasons’ Hotel, the rules were
adopted as I had drawn them. ... A number of
games were played by our club against the 14th and
40th Regiments. The soldiers were fresh from the
war in Maoriland, and played a vigorous and dare-
devil kind of game. During all this time we had to
play on unfenced ground. Three-card trick men
would frequently take up their stands in the midst
of where we were playing.” As the game grew
popular, “people would come in tens of thousands.
We would have to play down a passage about as wide
as the street. At last, in 1874, the M.O.C. agreed
to let us play one match. Some of the committee,
after looking over the ground next day, told me that
we had ruined it. Two years later they closed it to
football, and the other controlling bodies in the
State followed suit. A year or so later they allowed
a match, and the gate-money amounted to about
£450. Next season they opened the ground for two
months—May and June. The M.C.C. had at last
been forced to admit that football was improving
the ground, which had hitherto been little more than
a quagmire in the winter. I think the game made
the M.O.C. It had before the advent of football about
200 members, and an income of not more than £4OO a
year. It has now risen to be the greatest sporting
organisation in the world.”
At Menzies Hotel (Melbourne) last Thurs-
day, a number of nervous amateurs competed for a
highest-break trophy. A modest 21 did the trick.
H. W. Stevenson gave the trophy—gold sleeve-links
.—and the winner ought to reckon himself one of
Fortune’s favored children. This tournament of in-
vited guests followed an exhibition of billiards and
snooker by Stevenson and Memmott, a table being
fixed in the big reception-room, and the social
gathering was otherwise entertained with afternoon
tea. Host Norman Menzies, who ran the show, was
presumably the originator of the neat little sporting,
notion of a highest-break competition. The red and
one of the whites were placed in easy positions for
“losers” into the middle pockets, and each man in
turn .played from the baulked D for all he was
worth. Given a cool head and a bit of luck, any
fort of amateur might have scored higher than the
21, which took the sleeve-links.
Sickness prevented Fred Lindrum from
getting going in the early stages of his fin"! game
in Melbourne with Reece, but he seemed to pi->y him-
self into form for his match with Stevenson. This
should be the most interesting event of the present
busy season at Alcock’s. #
The 11th annual contest for the five miles
cross-country championship of Victoria was held at
Ballarat on Saturday, and attracted close on 200
entries from 31 teams, which is a record. G. M.
Sproule (Melbourne ’Varsity), the latest Rhodes
Scholar, finished 2yds. ahead of A. Richardson
(Ballarat), with Stan Long (Geelong) plugging
away some 15yds. further back. The watches made
young Sproule do the distance in 29min. 31sec.,
which is good going for a course that was on the
heavy side, with a taste of barbed-wire to make the
run spicy. The ’Varsity ped., who is very popular,
is 21 vears voung, sft. 6in. short, and weighs 9st.
91b., and he ’drags a B.A. after him. He leaves for
Oxford at the end of the month. “I am going as an
Australian,” he says, with emphasis, “and I intend
to return as one.” #
Amateur running in Victoria is booming,
Many new clubs have been popping up and others
are in the incubator. The forthcoming 10 miles
cross-country championship is now attracting most
notin''. In addition to all the local clubs, the Botany
Harriers (N.S.W.) will make the trip, with possibly
P. J. Randles, the international champion, who re-
cently arrived from the Big Smoke. Two teams
from Tassy, and Ambrose Luton (Bananaland) —he
pipped Frank Kerr (’Varsity) for the half-score, last
year—will also invade Melbourne. If Voigt (the
Olympic champion) can snatch a few moments for
training, he will also be there.
Two more records have been put up in
England. Motor-cyclist Hart-Davies rode from .John
o’ Groats to Land’s End (7877 miles) on a 3-g-h.p.
cycle, in 29hr. 12min. —3hr. 3min. better than the
previous best; and in a six days’ race, W. J.Clark, on
a 31-h.p., rode 2557 miles, of which 492 miles were
left "behind on the first day. # #
Satisfactory entries have been received for
the Adelaide-Svdnev relay cycle race. The go is to
be between , motor-cyclists and foot-pushers, the
former to concede 24 hours’ start. In the 1909 Ade-
laide-Sydney cvele relay the time was 691ir. 35mm.,
and the motor’record is 39hr. 53min., with no night
riding ; so the motorists haven’t soft thing on.
In the past three week-end road races
arom-m Svdnev.7 N.S.W. amateur eharfimou athlete
T. J. Wood, from scratch, has recorded slaAim,
“fastest time” efforts. On Saturday he sped over
five miles of roadway in 29min. 16sec., and finished
third behind W. O'Reilly (50sec.) and A. Palmer
(90sec.). Unfortunately, when fixing up the lati-
tude to be allowed to less speedy athletes, handicap-
pers seemed to think that Temple Wood is a motor-
car.
Ever since R. Burman, the American
speed-motorist, put up the world’s flying car-record
of 25.45ec., his friends have introduced him: “Yes,
sir, Mr. Burman —travelled faster than anv other
man in the wurld ; and he is Amurkan !” Now Bur-
man’s glory has fled ; he Is not the swiftest man on
earth. The title has gone to Yedrines, of Europe,
who recently flashed over 72 miles in less than 30
minutes. He travelled at the rate of 150 miles per
hour, with a howling gale behind him. And when
he alighted in safety, the first thing he did was to
cross his hands on his stomach and vow never to do
it again.
Sydney baseball premiership has now an
open aspect: Lane Cove, 14; Leichhardt, University
and Wavcrley, 12 each; Petersham, 10. Paddington
is at the South Pole, having won only one match out
of nine. The biggest streak of glory on Saturday
fell on the Waverley blokes, who beat the Lane Coves
by 6 runs to 1.
The Kemp Sculling Club, which will be
the headquarters of professional sculling in Sydney,
was pushed into existence at Peter Kemp’s boatshed,
Abbotsford, on Saturday. The new club will fill a
big hole in the sport, and its supporters are not
likely to let the club sink. The handicap of the day
was won by' Alf Felton (the principal supplier of
pace to Arnst in his recent training). He hadn’t
much difficulty in demoralising the opposition from
the scratch mark.
* * * *
Sydney lacrosse finished the second round
on Saturday with the first-grade clubs this way:
Petersham 24 points, Sydney 22, Stanmore 21, Mos-
man 17 ; the others outside all hope of glory. These
four leading clubs will battle in the semi-final:
and, before the final, wanderers from Victoria and
Queensland will look in on August 19 and 26.
Bombardier Wells is now finding a use for
his disused paws as the hero in a London vaudeville
sketch. The playet is entitled “Wanted —a Man,”
and it is Wells’s job to batter the villain with the
large naked growths that he calls fists. Naturally,
he has the gratifying experience of coming out a
winner every time.
« » • *
On Saturday, Parramatta Rifle Club won
outright the McCallev Cup rifle-shooting competition
(which had extended over three years), with Aus-
tralian Rifles A, Sydney and Randwick close at their
heels. The disappearing object and shifting-disc
comprised the final shoot, and Parramatta outdis-
tanced the opposition in scoring 924 points—or 88
better than the effort of the Australian Rifles. Th'
big attendance on the mounds makes this paper fee!
hopeful.
FREQUENT THROBBING HEADACHES
There’s many a
cause. Men are
not often troubled
by headaches;
when they are it is
generally due to
Biliousness or Indigestion. But
women have headaches which
seem peculiar to their sex, fre-
quent throbbing headaches. Does
it not seem that such headaches
peculiar to women must be at
once related to w’omanly dis-
ease? Women who suffer with
diseases peculiar to the sex do
not realise the drain of vital
strength and nerve force they
undergo as a consequence of
disease. It is this that causes
the headaches of sick women.
In other cases these pains and disagreeable
feelings are generally symptoms or some
other complaint, such as Indigestion, Bm-
ousness and Constipation, all ot which arq
caused by corrupt, noxious matter clogging
the circulations; hence a stream or rush ot
blood to the head, and by the excitement a
great pressure on the brain. Giddiness,
headache, loss of memory, dimness ot sight,
and various other complaints are the result.
Thus it will be seen that all the above paintul
and distressing maladies owe their origin to
the blood. Dr. Morse’s Indian Koot I ills are
acknowledged to be the only medicine that
will thoroughly purify the blood. They enter
lhe stomach and unite with the blood, and
follow the stream of life on its jour-
ney through the system. They roo
out all foulness and impurity, and
drive out everv unhealthy obstruction. Ihej
should be taken every night in sufficient
quantities to operate freely, .by commencing
with two pills on going to bed, three the
next night; four the next; if the symptoms
are not removed, commence again with two
pills, and go up again as before. Continue
in like manner until the blood is thoroughly
purified, and all pain and distress is entneli
removed.


THE
Natural Talking
Machines.
£3 t 0 £27/10/-
favorite
DOUBLE
SIDED
3/-
each.
3/-
each.
Needles 9d„ 1/-, 1/3,1/6 per box.
PA THE ATTACHMENTS.
Sound Boxes ... 17/6 each
Sapphires ... 2/6 „
CATALOGUES ON APPLICATION.
V\ rite to us or our Agents—
d. HESS & CO.,
199 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
am
) Farmers and
Orchardists
Need One !
0" IXG to the prohibitive price on a
Purveyor’s TRANSIT, and the dread
I ot attempting the use of such an in-
fl ru^® nt to ascertain the lay of his land
the iarmer and Orchardist has to rely on
guesswork. It s too risky to attempt to lay
? u ? drains, P lan a channel, or find' the
height ol a spring with the eye only. If
S. l i?^»rI IiSCOVer th at levelling
USSTRUJEM and TRANSIT No. 998
would save your guessing and guarantee
an accurate job, that it was easier to
manipulate than a binder, and. further,
that the price was easily within your
reach. 80/- complete (but a fraction of the
cost of a surveyor’s transit), wouldn’t it be
\ aluable on your Farm or Orchard ?
No. 99F, with telescope, long legs, ground
and graduated level glass £7/10/-.
Levelling Instrument No. 101 46/-.
DON’T GUESS IT. BE ON THE
SAFE SIDE!!
Full particulars in our 256-page
Catalogue. Write for it.
Thos. McPherson 8 Son,
Established 50 Years,
582-588 Collins Strsst, Melbourne.
Entertainment
for Every Home
'T' HERE is no bettor form of entertainment
than that offered by the Edison Phono-
graph. It embraces the entire range of melody
and harmony ; it will sing, 'render any kind of
instrumental musie, ®aiTa talks 4t' is a mar-
vellous reproducer of sound, and especially of
the sort of sounds which, combined, produce
music. It costs less than the hiring of a
small orchestra for a single evening’s enter-
tainment.
There are Edison dealers everywhere. Go
to the nearest and hear the Edison Phono-
graph play both the Edison Standard and
Amberol Records. Get complete lists from
your dealer or from us.
EDISON
Phonographs
National Phonograph Co. of Australia, Ltd.
(Wholesale Only),
Dept* 8., 364-372 KENT STREET, BYDNEY
A
\ Yon get more Fnel Miles
out or
SHELL
than out of any other Motor Spirit.
THAT'S WHERE ITS PER
FECT PURITY SAVES YOU
MONEY.
V
Direct Importer. Repairs a Specialty.
GUNS
fbr Australia from £1 to £5O, all guaranteed British
manufacture and personally tested by D. Mackintosh.
W. W. GREENER, Mack’s All-round Gun, £7/10/-
C. J. BONEHILL’S Guns from £3 to £6/10/-
SPECIAL PIGEON Guns from £lO/10 - to £25.
Any Gun delivered throughout Australia for 3/6 extra
to nearest railway station, and money returned if not
satisfied.
WRITE FOR PRICE LIST.
DONALD MACKINTOSH,
400 Bourke Street
MELBOURNE.
f
1
d; id
OLID
*3.
LIGHTING
SCIENCE.
Brandt’s Patent Acetylene
Generators are solidly con-
structed, are without faults,
or flaws, and combine sim-
plicity, durability and
economy—best principles for
the production of acetylene
gas. They fitly represent the
perfection attained after years
of experience in scientific
lighting. Send postcard now
for literature.
BRANDT Bros., Ltd.,
LAMPHOUSE,
236 Pitt Street, Sydney,
Elizabeth St., Melbourne
HpHE Australian Magazine. THE LOIS 1 E
_l_ HAND, the National Monthly. Price 6d.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee : FRANK MUSGROVE.
Sub-lessee and Manager : WILLIAM ANDERSON.
EVERY EVENING.
Return of WILLIAM ANDERSON’S Dramatic Organisa-
tion, in the realistic Australian melodrama,
THE MAN FROM OUTBACK.
A thrilling story of the Cattle Duffing Days
way down upon the Snowy River.
Box Plan at ELVY’S. Prices: 35., 2s. and Is .
Lyric and colonial, theatres,
Nos. 1 and 2, George Street, Sydney.
Direction J. D. Williams.
PERPETUAL MOTION from II a.m. to II p.m.
PATRONISED BY 60,000 PEOPLE WEEKLY.
Run Under the Continuous Show System now tile Rage
of England and America.
English and American Prices of Admission.
Same Prices at Each Theatre :
STALLS 3d. DRESS CIRCLE 6d.
ENTIRE CHANGE OF PROGRAMMES TWICE
WEEKLY: MONDAYS and THURSDAYS.
Afternoon Tea is Popular. Afternoon Pictures are the
Rage. V
We Cater Specially for Ladies and Children During
Morning and Afternoon Sessions.
Ladies’ Retiring Rooms and Lady Attendants.
If it is to be seen anywhere you will see it at our
Theatres.
THE WORLD IN MOTION.
We want you to compare our Programmes and our
Theatres with others which charge twice our prices of
Admission.
THE GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS
AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
INTERNATIONAL PICTURES. COLONIAL
Theatre Huildings, 610 George St., Sydney.
Mr. W. J. Morgan, General Manager.
This Company supplies the Lyric and Colonial Theatres
with all their photo plays, and also supplies the leading
photo play concerns throughout Australasia. In fact,
we supply more shows with pictures than any other
three (3) concerns combined.
Don’t forget, Mr. Showman, to write or call.
We have the money-getters. VVe do not represent any
one firm of photoplay manufacturers, but we represent
all the best. WE HAVE THOUSANDS OF EXCLUSIVE
SUBJECTS -EVERY ONE A WINNER.
Branches: Sutton Buildings, Melbourne ; Courier Build-
ings, Brisbane ; Wellington, New Zealand ; London,
England : Dewar House, Haymarket.
Just address your wire to “International Pictures.”
That’s sufficient.
OWN H~A lT I. , SYDNEY.
Under Direction of J. & N. TAIT.
AUGUST 10 and 12.
LEONARD
BORWICK
Ujaia-UF THE VVUBWS GREAT PIANISTS.
PIANOFORTE RECITALS.
PRICES fi/-, 3-/, 2/- and 1/-. Box Plans at
Y.M.C.A. HALL, Bathurst Street, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING.
WILLIAM ANDERSON presents
The Greatest Humorist and Entertainer of the Day,
JOSEPH B L ASCII EC K,
supported miss MILDRED WRIGHTON.
Prices—3/- Reserved, 2/- and 1/- Plan at Paling’s.
Shaw Stanley, Manager.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager : J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
LAST NIGHTS OF
MR. H. B. IR VI N G’S SEASON
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MR. H. B. IRVING and
MISS DOROTHEA BAIRD
in LOUIS XI.
PLAN AT PALING’S.
THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
1 Lessee & Manager .. J. C. WILLIAMso.V. Ltd,
THE MUSICAL SUCCESS OF THE CENTURY.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON presents
the Marvellously Successful Comic Opera, in Three Acts,
TH E MER RY WIDOW.
plaved by the Popular Favorites of
THE NEW COMIC OPERA COMPANY.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Prices as usual.
h
L I EUR.
BENEDICTINE,
“B. & B.” Cycles Prove Their Value.
ĥ
THEY embody principles that give strength and endurance ; the perfect adjust-
ment of every part makes for easy running, and the care taken in their con-'
struction ensures satisfaction to you.
£l3/10/- is a price everyone can afford to pay, and for that sum you can purchase
our Model A made from B.S.A. Parts throughout, and as good a machine as you
could desire to ride.
Dunlop-Welsh Multiflex tyres, superior finish of frame, which is the latest Aus-
tralian style, are some of its good features.
We will be pleased to show you one if you call at our Pitt Street Depdt, which is
open till 9 p.m. Fridays. Catalogue on request.
Bennett & Barkell, Ltd.,
Largi-st Ovcle Banding House in the State,
234 Pitt Street, and Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
Rig'ney Shoes for Men ! i
THERE’S never a pair of Shoes at Rigney’s that cannot be
relied upon to he of the very best quality obtainable. The
highest standard is fully upheld. In quality, style, price
and every detail Rigney Shoes are bound to please you.
The Shoe illustrated is a Choice Tan Russia Ca'f Oxford
Shoe, very neat, serviceable and dressy.
Price 25/- Postage 9d. extra.
Send for a Copy of our NEW CATALOGUE
The Rigney Shoe Co.,
“The Men’s Exclusive High-Grade
Shoe Stores,’’
305 GEORGE ST., and
179 a PITT ST., SYDNEY.
ħ
Please note that the new shop in Pitt Street is under the personal supervision of Mr. F. C. Rigney, the
sole and only proprietor of the above firm.
J
00 (double‘o')
Old Orkney Whisky.
A^ELPH 1 THEATRE, SYDNEY.
T . l a,,fi Management. Gkokge Marlow, Ltd
LAbi XWO NIGHTS of THE POWER OF THE CROSS'
SATURDAY NEXT, AUGUST 12,
__ F ‘ r - st Presentation in Australia, bv
GEORGE MARLQW’S NEW and BRILLIANT
DRAMATIC CO.,
of the Great Western Mining Drama,
AT CRIPPLb CREEK.
*r v^s a,K ® White Rose Confectionery.
POi >'LAB PRICES—3s,, 2s. & Is. Early Door, 6d. extra.
DAL ACE THEATRE, SYDNEY
Lessee and Manager : WILLIAM ANDERSON.
„ EVERY EVENING.
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S JUVENILE PANTOMIME
LILLIARD’S LILLIPUTIANS
in the Charming Australian Pantomime,
THE OLD WOMAN WHO
LIVED IN A SHOE.
Box Pan at Elvy’s. Popular Prices—3/-, 2/- and 1/-
EM I n NAl !' AMPHITHEATRE, SYDNEY?
Sole Proprietors—Brennan’s Amphitheatres, Ltd.
r ,_ T P ovfe rning Director—Mr. James Brennan.
BRENNAN’S VAUDEVILLE ENTERTAINERS.
EVERT’ EVENING at 8 O'CLOCK.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS.
THE BEST IN VAUDEVILLE.
MILLIE DORIS, She of the Hot + Bun
THE PIQUAYS. THE VAGGES, Bag Punchers.
McGEE & REECE. Our Great Double Company.
Saturday, AUG. 12, Direct from America, EVA MUDGE
AMATEUR TRIAL NIGHTS, FRIDAY EVENINGS.
IM EW /t e 1^?,? 01588 THEATRE
(Late BIJOU, next to Glaciarium).
COLOSSAL PEOPLE’S ENTERTAINMENTS BY
WEST’S PICTURES, LTD.
“BEST OF ALL.”
FAMILY MATINEES-WEDNESDAY, 2.30.
DE GROEN’S VICE-REGAL ORCHESTRAS.
,6d. to 2/- Plan at Nicholson’s (Fee, 6d. extra).
YDN E Y
GLACIARIUM
REAL ICE SKATING.
THREE SESSIONS DAILY.
10 to 12. 3 to 5. 8 to 10.30.
Admission—-2/-; Children : Morning & Afternoon only, 1/-
Children : Saturday Morning only, 6d.
SKATE HIRE—SIXPENCE.
Private Instruction may be Booked for Hours during
and between the Sessions.
’Phone, 492 Glebe. DUNBAR POOLE, Manager.
HE LYCEUM
every evening at 8.
M ati nets -Wednesdays Saturdays and Holidays at 2 HO.
C PENCER'SIHeatrekoPE <°
J PICTURES
+//&£ 31/PZK.tOft ro /Til or/fEJZS. *»
Popular Prices Plah at Palings.
TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ Sole Proprietor U Manager—Mr. Hardy IttfiKardsI
MATIN PUS WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS
LAMBERTI, Impersonator of Great Masters of Music.
BINNS & BINNS, the Comedy and Music Vagabonds.
ALCIDE CAPITAINE, The Perfect Ladv Gymnast.
PASTOR & MERLE, Singing and Dancing Eccentnques
MARGUERITE ISMAY AND GIRLS.
FANNY POWERS. TED KALMAN.
EMILE LAZERN. IRVING SAYLES.
And a GREAT COMPANY of Established Favorites.
PRICES—8s., 2s. and Is. Plan at Paling’s.
Q P E R A HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager. Mr. Ilarrv Rickards.
SPISSELL BROS. & MACK, Eccentrics & Pantomimists.
DALY & O’BRIEN, Tanglefoot Dancers.
SYDNEY BACH, Pianist.
McLALLEN * CARSON, Roller Skaters.
FRANCIS & ALFRi D, Comedy Jugglers.
ARTHUR CROXON, Monologue Entertainer.
TOM DAWSON, Australian Comedian,
Plan at Allan’s. Ji-fT PRICES—3s., 2s., Is.
THE KING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
* Sole Lessee and Manager : William Andkrson.
EVERY EVENING.
WM. ANDERSON’S NEW DRAMATIC ORGANISATION
in the Great Military Spectacle,
TOMMY ATKINS.
Reappearance of WALTER BAKER & FRANCES ROSS
Box Plan at Allan's. PRICES—3s., 2s. and Is.
HEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
FOR LAST NIGHTS OF SEASON.
MISS ETHEL IRVING and her LONDON COMPANY in
LADY FREDERICK,
Followed by
DOLLY’S LITTLE BILLS.
Plans at Allan’s. PRICES AS USUAL.
%A#E S T’S PALACE, MELBOURNE.
THE BEST W ES I S PIC1 (JRES, XHE best
OF ALL. LIMITED. OF ALL.
Managing Director : Mr. T. J. West.
NIGHTLY AT S.
Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays* All Holidays at 2.30.
Tiie Greatest Pictorial Enterprise in the World.
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
Any Moving Picture Worthy of Note always to be seen at
WEST’S PICTURES. Complete Change every week.
Prices—6d. to 2s. Box Plan at Glen's.
LYRIC THEATRE, Chapel St., Prahran, Vic.
EVERY NIGH Tat 8. MATINEE, SATURDAY, at 2.30
THE FAMOUS “ NON-FLICKER ”
PHOTOPLAYS
on tlie Marvellous “Muck” Screen, together with the
Superb LYRIC ORCHESTRA. 6d. to 2s. Plans at
Allan’s, C. M. Read’s and the Lyric Theatre GafA
|yg ELBOI'KNE GIACIARIUAI.
ICE SKATING
EVERY AFTERNOON and EVENING.
ADMISSION—AFTERNOONS, 2/-; CHILDREN, 1/-.
EVENINGS, 1/-.'
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 12.
RETURN OF
Mr. J. C. Williamson's Popular “ Whip” Co.
in
VIA WIUELESS,
A ROMANCE OF THE SINGING SPARK.
Prices as Usual. Plan at Allan’s.
WIRTHS OLYMPIA..
.EVERY EVENING AT 8
M atinees-Wednesdays. Saturdays and Holidays at 2 -30.
C PENCER'SIHEATREJCOPE <?.
'*/*&£ SUPERIOR TO ALL OTHERS.
Popular Prices —Plain as lisuAL.c


A. SAUNDERS’ DAINTY NEW JEWELLERY
FOR BIRTHDAY OR WEDDING GIFTS.
£2.
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Solid Silver Hunting
Iveyless WATCH, Jewelled
Movement, Patent Adjusted
Balance,. £2-
Extra Quality, £2/10/. Works
Kept in Free Repair for 2 \rs.
£2/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold LINKS, 10/6
15ct Gold Links, 25/.
Silver, 3/6.
A SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold EAR-RINGS,
set Pearls and Turquoise
or Amethysts, 27/6-
A SAUNDERS.
Oct Gold PENDANT,
set Pearls and Ame-
thyst, 25/-
A. SAUNDERS.
9et Gold Claw-set
RING, Garnet, Ame-
thyst, or Topaz,
EXQUISITE GOODS, CHARAC-
TERISED BY DELIGHTFUL AND
ORIGINAL FANCY, AT ENTIRELY
MODERATE PRICES.
OUR FREE CATALOGUE IS A
BEAUTIFUL PRODUCTION, FULL
OF THOUSANDS OF GIFT SUG-
GESTIONS.
LET’S SEND YOU A COPY.
A. SAUNDERS.
Lsct Gold Secret Name BROOCH, Ruby
or Sapphire, £2.
Diamond-set, £2/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold, 2-Bar BROOCH, set Ruby or
Sapphire, 25/-
A. SAUNDERS.
9ict Gold PEND-
DANT, set Fine
Pearls and Ame-
thysts,
27/6.
9et Gold Hand-clasp
RING, 25/.
loct Gold, 40/.
ISct Gold, 50/.
A. SAUNDER&.
9ct Gold LINKS, 17/«-
15ct Gold Links, 35/.
Initials Engraved, same
price.
A. SAUNDURS.
15ct Gold EAR-RINGS,
set Pearls and Peridot
or Tourmaline, £ J 2.
7/6.
h
m
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver SOVEREIGN
PURSES, Plain 7/6, 8/6;
Silver-filled, 5/6; Nickel,
3/6.
8/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Curb Bar and Heart
BROOCH, 5/6-
Larger, 7/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold, Diamonds and Rubies or Sap-
phires, £2/10/-
Three Diamonds, £3/10/.
SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold, Expanding, WATCH BRACE-
LET, the Latest Design, Lever Movement,
Full Jewelled, a Perfect, Accurate, and
Reliable Little Timekeeper,
£6/10/.
Extra Jewelled Movement and
Heavier Bracelet,
£7/10/, £B/10, £lO.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold SOUTHERN CROSS
BROOCH, set Red, Blue, or
Orppn Stones, 7/6.
w
ISA
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct Gold Bar BROOCH, set Diamond and
Red or Blue Stones, 25 /•
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Double Bamboo BRACELET, with Safety Chain
attached, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold, Ivy Leaf BROOCH, 112/G-
-15ct Gold, 25/; Diamond, 40/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Plain Juvenile BANGLE, 15/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold, 2-Bar and Circle
set Red or Green Stone,
BROOCH,
10/6-
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct Gold, set Red
Stone or Olivine,
10/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Bird and Heart
CHARM.
7/0-
A. SAUNDERS.
JBct Gold, set Dia-
monds and Rubies or
Sapphires or Oliv-
ines, 3-row Half-hoop
RING, £7/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, set Fine
Pure Double-cut Dia-
monds, £l2/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, set Dia-
monds and Rubies or
Sapphires, £2-
3 Diamonds, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold BAR BROOCH, Any Names
Engraved, 5/G-
BEAUTIFUL
GIFT.
N
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold NECKLACE,
set 28 Fine Pure Double-
cut Diamonds and Three
Beautiful Green Tourma-
lines or Opals,
£25-
A. SAUNDERS,
old “Dinna For-
get” CHARM,
10/.
Larger, 12/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
:i Set. Gold set 5
Pure Double-cut
Diamonds,
£7/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, Dia-
monds and Emer-
alds, Cluster RING,
£7/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, set Dia-
monds and Olivines,
£4/10/.
V. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold,
Set Pearls
and Garnet
Dr Peridot,
12/6»
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Crescent Pheasant BROOCH,
Pearls and Turquoise, ,50/-
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold, Fancy Basket Pattern BRACELET, Strong
Safety Chain attached, £3-
A. SAUNDJiKS.
Dct. Gold CURB NECKLET, Strong and Neat, 15/,
20/, 25/, 30/. loot Gold, 30/, 35/, £2, £2/10/, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct Gold, 2-Bar BROOCH, set Diamonds and Rubies
or Sapphires,
25/-
A. SAUNDERS.
9et Gold, 2-Bar BROOCH, Amethyst Centre,
loet Gold, £2.
£2.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Solid Silver Hunting Keyless Lever
WATCH, Full Jewelled, Non-magnetic,
Strong, Reliable, £2-
Guaranteed Free Repairs for 2 Years.
Extra Jewelled Movement, £2/10/.
£2/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold MEDAL,
15/-
15ct Gold, 30/.
Silver, 2/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold Plain Half-Round BRACELET,
Strong Catch and Safety Chain, £3/10*
15ct Gold, £5/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold MEDAL,
set with Ruby or
Sapphire,
17/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
qpl Gold “Heavy Trace” MUFF CHAIN, Particularly Handsome and Exclusive, £4/10/, £5/10/.
9 ’ lfict Gold, £6/10/, £7/10/, £lO, £l2/10/.
15/-
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Nickel, Open-faced, Keyless, ?•
Plate WATCH, Patent Adjusted Balance.
Non-magnetic, Time Spring, an
Water Proof Cases, loh
Higher Grade, 25/-
20/-
JEWELLER, 1
lopf
MAKER
SYDNEY'S LEADING JEWELLER.
807.809.8II.8I5.8I5.8I7. GEORGE ST. (Opposite Railway Sralion) SYDNEY,N.S.W.
OSSULT/Afe
OPTICIAN


FOR
David Braham 8 Co.,
TAILORS,
76 Market St., Sydney
(Next Door to Farmer’s).
Call or Write for Patterns.
When there are Miles Between Inkstands.
When the nearest inkstand is very far away—you will
be glad to have an Onoto Pen —it makes writing so easy.
At home, at the office, everywhere, any time—it is the
pen that’s always handy—always ready for use—always
of service.
You know about the Onoto. That it is
—the fountain pen that fills itself in a flash
—the fountain pen that never leaks, soils and spoils
—the fountain pen that always writes smoothly and
without scratching or spluttering.
flow is the time to get an Onoto Pen. It is British made throueh-
out. It costs 12/-, and can he obtained at all stationers, jewellers
and stores.
Go to-day to the nearest stationer’s and say—“An Onoto Pen,
please.”
Booklet about the Onoto Pen free on application to Thos. De La
■Rue <fc Co., Ltd., 253 Bnnhill Bow, London, E.C., or the Australasian
Representative. Norman Baker, 50 York Street, Sydney.
l 4Z vr -
andUpwardf.
Onoto
Self-Filling - - Pnin
Safety Fountain ® ■
IMPORTANT.—For those who require a larger pen with
a very flexible nib, a special model—the new G —has been
put on the market. It is exceptional value for the money.
Try this new G at your stationer’s.
CONFIDENTIAL Letters
U REMAIN PRIVATE
when the Zanetic
N. S. C. Copying
Book is used. _
>iSC/ 200
Patcnt ZanetiC
CODING
is
You slip your letter
paper into the
holder, write your letter, and the copy is made as
you write. Letter shows no sign of copying. The
letter is ported and the book locked up. 400 octavo
(Bin. x sin.) letters, or 200 quarto, can be copied in
NSC/100, post free for 3/9 ; or 800 octavo, or 400
quarto, in NSC/200, post free for 5/-. Sample of the
celebrated Zanetic ink paper which produces this
result, free, if stamped envelope sent to
S. B. ZANETIC, Zanctic Works,
Wdford Road, LEICESTER, ENGLAND.
WHENEVER you see a bear with a Con-
tinent on his back, think of THE LONE
HAND. It’s swag is a Continent.
Jj
i
i
C
s\
%
7l
&
a
0
Nowhere more urgently needed than on the farm!
Wherever you find a successful agriculturist ; you will find evidence, in the shape of Artificial
Power, that he has realised the truth of the above.
And on the farms of MORE THAN ONE HUNDRED AND SEVENTY-FIVE THOUSAND
of these successful men, the artificial power in use is an “1.11. C." Gasolene Engine.
Astonishing figures, truly!—more especially when they concern an Engine practically unknown
six years ago—but figures that represent Ice Cold Facts.
Their position—a long way in front —is due solely to their Deeds and the good words their
users have for them.
“1.H.C." Engines have invariably proved their superiority.
They've proved it to their users on the farm and elsewhere.
They've proved it to the entire satisfaction of the judges and spectators alike, in Open Compe-
tition against the world's “next best" Engines, at Aurora, Illinois, at Amiens, France, and twice
at Winnipeg, Canada.
They've proved it in a Non-stop Day-and-Night Ploughing Exhibition held at Werribee, Vic., on
August, 1910, by ploughing 66 acres in 56 hours, at a fuel and lubricant cost of 2/3%d. per acre.
To such an extent have they proved it that the International Harvester Company's Factories,
although manufacturing more than One Thousand of them per week, cannot fill the orders of those
to whom “More Power" represents “1.H.C." Engine power.
In Australia, as elsewhere, the position these Engines hold is “right in the front." Last fiscal
year their sales were extraordinary; and to further popularise them, we started this fiscal year, July
Ist, by making considerable reductions in both cash and terms columns of our Jan. 1911 Price List.
In addition to this, we have now determined to put an “1.H.C." Engine within the immediate
reach of any responsible but “can’t-afford-it-just-yet" engine buyer who acts promptly.
To do this, we are making an
*
\
m
EXTRAORDINARY SPECIAL OFFER
whereby he can, by ordering during the months of August and September, 1911
(but not a day later), and for delivery to suit himself, procure an “I.H.Con
positively the most favourable and by far the easiest terms ever offered to
Engine buyers in Australia.
Don’t make any mistake about it; this is such a genuine opportunity
that no Engine buyer can afford, under any consideration whatever,
to place his order elsewhere until he has dropped us a line,
asking for full particulars.
Do yourself “well” by mailing your letter to-day.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AMERICA
200 Roma St., Brisbane. 37 Broadway, Sydney. 545 Bourke St., Melbourne.
18-20 North Terrace, Adelaide. 75 York St., Launceston.
ROBT. NETTLEFOLD, Hobart, General Agent for Southern Tasmania.
Local Agents throughout all important Agricultural Centres in the Commonwealth.


GeethiiUL
trouble banished by
SCOTT’S
Emulsion
in a case which seemed al-
most hopeless. Mrs. Lillie
Austin, Coledale, N.S.W.,
writes (28th Feb., ’10) that:
“A few months ago my little son was
very ill with gastritis and teething
troubles, and we thought he
would die. He ivas so weak
and thin that he had to be
carried on a pillow. A dvised
to try Scott’s Emulsion,
we did so, with wonderful
results. The gastritis is
now a thing of the past, he
has cut four teeth without
trouble, and is gaining
flesh every day. Scott’s Emulsion
saved his life.”
h
Aiding life year in, year out,
Scott’s Emulsion is the
only emulsion with a repu-
tation in all parts of the
world for curing teething
trouble and gastritis. Taken
in good time, Scott’s
Emulsion prevents such
troubles altogether. Ask
your doctor about the reputa-
tion and record of Scott’s
Emulsion. No emulsion
bought instead of Scott’s,
can give you the proof
which Scott’s provides by
world-wide testimony. This
CERTAINTY should be
worth to you many times
the price of Sco 11 ’ s Emul-
sion. Therefore, do not ask
for ‘ * emulsion ” —ask for
SCOTT’S EMULSION.
Of all Chemists and Dealers in Medicines.
'3B
THE MOTOR MAID
KNOWS THE COMFORT
AND 'WORTH.
OF
Barnet Glass
Motor Tyres
due to the high quality of
the materials from which
they are made, and to the
care and skill used in their
manufacture,
GLASS’ TYRES
contain a maximum percent-
age of pure rubber, and only
the toughest Egyptian cotton
is used as their basis.
Barnet Glass Rubber Co. Ltd.
231 Clarence Street, Sydney.
And all States.
Before
HARE’S
COMPOUND
will grow a LUXURIANT
MOUSTACHE, and cover
Bald Patches when all else
fails.
Price, 5/6 Post Free.
Sk/m
After
London Specialities Ae'ency,
44 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
A MONTHLY GUIDE for everything- Aus-
tralian. That’s The Lone Hano, ''A
marvellous sixpeun’orth ! ”
MEN’S WINTER FOOTWEAR.
A NEW
MODEL.
Price 19/6.
SrSw
m
The Glace or Box Balmoral illustrated is the result of the
best shoe-making thought obtainable, applied to the best
mechanical process and worked out in as excellent
leather as the world’s tanneries afford.
Write for our Booklet,
“ SHOELIGHT.”
LEMMING’S BOOT STORES,
109 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
257-259 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
303 Chapel Street, Prahran.
1 and 3 Errol Street, North Melbourne.
THe Drink. Evil!
The only commonsense treatment, making
no extravagant pretences to cure the
drinker without his knowledge, is the
PROVED Hapwell (London) Treatment.
Nothing mystic. Passive co-operation only
asked at first. A combined physical
and mental treatment that cannot fail
if properly applied. The only logical
method. Write to-day. Consultation
Form and particulars in plain envelope.
Address : The B. Hapwell (London) Treat-
ment, 479 Collins Street, Melbourne. If
case uryent, treatment sent by return post
on receipt of Postal Note for £1 Is. State
case fully. Inviolable privacy assured.
LEADING MELBOURNE LAWYER SAYS:-
H“ The best guinea’s-worth ever offered for
this purpose !”
a
MILLERS
5
OSTRICH TIPS
From South Africa.
Black, White, Cream,
Natural, or Black Tipped
with White.
5/-
Length, 12 Inohes.
POST FREE.
The Feathers we offer you
cannot be bought for twice the
money in any other house.
Send Postal Notes or Money
Order payable to John Jlillkk.
Illustrated Price List Free.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP
Corner'Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY ; also at
Corner of Bourkeand Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention This Bulletin.] [*
STEVEN S
SINGLE,-BARREL GUNS
No. 90, formerly No. 105,
without Automatic Ejector.
m
No, 95, formerly No. 107,
with Automatic Ejector.
In 12, 16 and 20 GAUGES.
ORDER STEVENS
FROM YOUR
DEALER.
Write for Catalogue to
ARTHUR H. HILL, Australian Represent-
ative for Stevens Arms and Tool Co.,
Box 86, G.P.0., Adelaide, S. Australia.
Send for latest Fire-
arm, Telescope and
Stevens-Pope Cata-
logues. [3
ĥ
The World’s Standard
Valveless Engine.
TA TUP PADMFD the . FERRO ENGINE has
lU lllly rAKiuLK, p roven itself an inestimable
boon by relieving him of the hard work about the
farm, such as pumping water, chaff and ensilage
cutting, bagging and hoisting, corn grinding, husk=
ing and shelling, sawing wood, separating cream,
driving winnowers or any machine for which
.moderate power is required. Also on account of the
increased profit made by their use, which in many
cases has more than paid for the entire outfit before
the f rst season Is over.
Drop a postcard to the nearest agent, giving par-
ticulars of machine or plant for which you require
power, and he will advise you of the most suitable
engine for the purpose. YOU WILL REMEMBER
THEIR HONEST SERVICE LONG AFTER YOU
HAVE FORGOTTEN THE SMALL COST.
Made in the following sizes suitable for
Stationary, Portable or Marine use:
5,4, 5.K, 7«, 8,11,12,15,17, 25 B.H.P.
ħ
FERRO AGENTS: .
Hall Bros., Druitt St., SYDNEY.
Acme Motor & Eng\ Co.. Lonsdale St., MELBOURNE.
Howard Motor & Cyclo Co., Queen St., BRISBANE.
F. J. Langley, Torrens St. E., ADELAIDE.
Perth Motor House, Hay St, PERTH.
Wearne & Ceard, LAUNCESTON.
Hayward & Carrett, Stuart St., DUNEDIN.
H. T. Whitson & Co., Customs St. W., AUCKLAND
H. T. Moore, APIA, SAMOA.
ICILMA
Dry SHAMPOO
POWDER.
TWO SHAMPOOS FOR THREEPENCE.
LADIES!
When your hair gets dirty and greasy,
And the winds are cold and breezy,
There’s a SHAMPOO DRY
That you should try
Called “ICILMA” —it’s efficient and easy.
NO
WATER
AT ALL
NEEDED
USE
DRY
3d.
PER
PACKET.
All Chemists and Storekeepers, or post free from
ICILMA DEPOT, 139 yoriTstreet, SYDNEY.
GAPILLARINE the moustache producer
-a
ha.
HOW A MOOSTACHE IMPROVES THE APPEARANCE.
It fills out the features and gives you a better appearance. If you are
having any trouble with yours, try CAPILLARINE. It will Soon produce
a moustache where none exists, or will bring your present “straggly ” one
on to perfection. CAPILLARINE has a 30 years’ successful record
behind it as a guarantee.
DDirP 101* POST FREE ,N PLAIN WRAPPER
T 0 ANY PART of the world.
The C. &A, Moustache Trainer shapes the moustache. Worn
at night. No. 1, 2/6 ; No. 2, 3/6; No. 3, 5/6. Post free.
CRAIG & AITKEN, «4Georte Start. Syta*. SPBET 1
1
n
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted, whether sent by post or handed
in; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps
(of any State) accompany.
J.8.F.: The firm says it couldn’t carry
out its undertaking because of the failure of some
foreign co., but adds that things will be right pre-
sently. The police have had their eye on the busi-
ness for some time, and there seems to be a good
deal of suspicion in the eye. .. . J.K.P.: Keep off
them ... .Anti-Fat: No hope. .. . Strathearn: Bulle-
tin office will find him. .. .Kimbolton: Too long-
winded. Think of the size of the beat this paper
has to cover, and then send us just the marrow....
J.H.M.: No, thanks; not in our line. .. . W.P.: Not
enough freshness in the matter to call for the resur-
rection of the corpse.... Rouseabout: Not enough
meat in the pie. We haven’t got much use for nice
frills round the dish....Utu: Held for a second
reading. Bright work, but hardly up to standard.
Try again T.G. (S.A.) : Nothing quite good
enough in the batch. The verses might be worked
up again. There is a false rhyme in the first stanza,
and the whole thing needs overhauling. . . .Jas. F.
(V.): Neither suitable. .. .Arthur H.: What! —
Oh! Phyllis in the early hours
Before the dewdrop’s beauty sours, . . .!
You are thinking of cowdrops, surely.... Hix: Un-
suitable. .. .E. Mansfield: Your pen needs a lot more
practice Benita: Regret tc inform you that none
of them survived the ordeal.... Armis: You have
provided a climax, anyway:—
I met a girl the other day
Her eyes were bright and her name was May
She asked me if I would stay
And pass an hour or two away.
I acquiesced in a trice
And thought at once how very nice.
Then down we sat unon the chair.
The side door opened and just there
Her own boy stood with golden hair!
...E.D.S.: A pleasant jingle, but not strong enough
to make the journey to the printer.... Priscilla:
Only exquisite treatment can make that old idea
worth while. Afraid the humorous one is out of
date Bedrock: Large junk of verse very roughly
chiselled. . .J.C. (Melb.) : Firmly rejected. . .F.L.8.:
It isn’t vours ; and, anyhow, nobody now asks watch-
men “What of the night?” For one thing, night
watchmen are so hard to wake up....Clex: Bright,
but too slight Bellerive: We will take the sombre
one, please:—
MURDER IN THE BUSH.
As the call of the mopoke wafted out
With the breath of the woodland Breeze,
An old stockman witnessed a ghastly Deed
Amid the tall and ruffling Trees.
“Murder in the bush!” the veteran gasped.
“Oh God it were break of day !
The victim weltering in his gore!
Robbery and brutal foul play!”
While upon the wild timbered nooks
The pale mystic moon did gleam,
He beheld the grim and gory corpse
Consigned to a babbling stream.
Horrified the stockman mounted his horse
And galloped off with all his might
To break the news to the village police
Of the crime ’neath the pale moonlight.
. ...Halmil: You have rhvmed “matter” with ‘to-
bacco.” Do you think you could, by force or other-
wise, persuade “johnnycake” and “doughnut” to trot
side by side? W.K.F.: Unsuitable Echo
(Broken Hill) : It merely hobbles < along. Clumsy
work W.T.S.: Bright. Will-look at it again....
H E.M.: No. . . .G.R.11.: Sorry not suitable, even in
amended form. You might place it elsewhere....
Fencer D.: It falls short. As near as we can esti-
mate, the distance is 35 miles. . . .Wearv B.: We
will take neither your word, your sworn declaration,
nor your lOU John X.: In a literary way of
speaking, you don’t blaze ; in fact, you are only just
looking for the matches to start the fire with....
Homo: Come in:—
A dreadful screech rent the still night air,
Followed up by fully half a dozen more,
Each of which seemed nearer, deadlier
And more blood-curdling than the one before.
Whilst abject Terror thrilled me to the Soles,
And. a shudder ran through every finger-tip,
I rushed very cautiously outside,
For a victim surely writhed in some fierce
monster’s grip.
A ghastly, gruesome tragedy .
Soon did meet my horror-stricken sight.
As I took in its appalling detail.
Aided by the grim assassin’s light.
The next-door woman the revolting deed
Had perpetrated, and her poultry stud
Now contained one less in number,
Through that awful deed of blood.
My wife remembered how, that very day,
Had Mrs. Snaggs declared a-cup - *
Of broth was what her run-down husband
Wanted most to build him up.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CONTRIBUTORS.
AH W • Good; but it would be Choctaw' to 90
per cent, of Australia Biltong: The Irishman
who put down 2d. for Beer, drank the Beer, and then
told the expostulating lady that it was she and not
be who was a penny short, has been ■ wandering into
this office once a week for 10 years. Please send us
the address of the lady (now 85), and we il wire
her a postage stamp and square thematter for good.
N.Z.: Hopeless every way vV.G.S.. Very pro-
mising. . . .Bang: Criticism! No ; don t ask us.
Our axe is away getting sharpened Clement H. .
All of them pensioners.
The crowning of George V. gives a new
gloss to Walter Savage Landor’s verses on
the five Georges :
George the First a scoundrel was
So was George the . Second ; _ ■ ,' •
And wliat mortal ever heard
Anv good of George the Third ?
When George the Fourth from earth descended,
Thank the Lord the Georges ended.
The new George, luckily, is something ;dif-
ferent from those Georges who . described
eaqh other and their families as canaille, as
well as from those who kicked their wives and
their valets, and bullied their Ministers, and
spoke German with fluency and English
with difficulty.
About America’s special ambassador who
went to the Coronation in his ordinary
clothes: —
John Hays Hammond is a small, wiry/man with a
large head, who has ' found the earth small. When
still a youngster he was consulting engineer for the
Central and S. Pacific Railway. Quitting railroads
he adventured in Mexico, and since has salvaged
abandoned mining properties all over the world.
Barney Barnato gave him 40,000 dols. a year to go
to S’Africa, but he soon joined Rhodes, who offered
him 60,000 dols. He earned the rise by telling
Rhodes to drop surface mining and dig to levels
lower than were then considered sane. The hint made
it possible for C. Rhodes to lend money to King
Ned Hammond tried to stop Jameson’s mad raid,
and fought for political reform in S. Africa. Old
hi an Kruger gaoled him, and gave Mrs. Hammond
her chance to put up a memorable fight for her hus-
band Kruger let him go for £25,000. When he
got to London, pretty well broken up, he asked for
fairer treatment for the Boers (Kruger excepted,
probably). Hammond’s wife met him in Germany;
married him when he got £3OO per annum ; went
with him to Mexico, and slept under the same cart
with the same saddle for pillow and a baby to look
after- cooked his food and mended his clothes in
the Transvaal; and rubbed his back with horse lini-
ment in Rhodesia when there wasn’t doctor or medi-
cine for 200 miles around.


Seamless Socks and Stockings
mw.
aKßgsaa.
WwA'Jiihi
JUp
11
*?)
£ :
i
It?
5.-. K
in
MM
ffissp
v;-*
>T> •■* v . •
y ‘££
t-5> Kl rCI-'V.'C'
| f I|^g^
II
Ml
»
| j \
%O?3M
; >p-;
i'. |
§S
/O
:
s|f|§l!
SKI®
@1
*4ss™
<&«
v I m mmmm®
•I bM«S#U&
1
s Mmmm
IjxL
§Mss
'Affi'fi i\rO~ is*?!**
F&a?v v
WmmM
8ms&l
SM
m
m
tftK> j4!9tinSSPiih:
&h». v
io®/*'•? " -ir ?J?Ar
-
V Vsxs£
sss^SESsSisfiJE?-
WM
b
i .
*
II
Ki i
Ah
SilPi
t fpkv.
im;\ WOZOM
■‘U
m
i'&S
w
SffifM \\ >\
%
iH
i/sa
Mi
W
®S
SUfl
ysK
'c l ’.
Fv*£
MM
mti
wm
m
II
>7-
% 0.
m\wm
mm
Ub
jy£
i m
iPf^g
1 w$
vs-s
ill
fe
## f.j|j
£wmiMmm m
-•' ■ ■
*p<j
wM
m
?V-: !
1
s®gg*
5T jpg*
1 gfM
m-
iwa
M : ' &< ,(x$
<y fc-y
sfi #a
®WM
P#f
ffi
Sill
E .SWfsf® ■
t i
£S
k 's. fe
SSTis* - 8 te |#4:
?WII
!f S
m
"lJim
■re «s£s& [9£
mi
zi'Sp:Z S Ip(y\
m I is 4
ft II
m
[ip;
m
m
i«£
»
if P
ipi
M te
w
%$ m h ftm
lIS 1«
SII 111 l
Itil
mM
Hi
M
m w
iifc?£ies;.S
a*
%
fcbz OTyXvv l
m
f»k®
fyiv<-
■
aaMi
aga
IsM
?4
i Stew
ESI
I i
M^a
mm#m
: --'■
7itei7iiv-
a?.)j
t w«
V 33 S
m
j:.7:-
lif
i&srM-
«MM
s i'Ma
Him
mm
■*;£b
mm
11l
r p I'ifCffi
aiiil
mm
smnmi
f m
m
mu
W>
pg^.v-is^a'sf-
mmvm
gif'?
Pig
r^7:
Sa ; <!
iw« - - - /V m
For Men,
Women O.
Children,
EAGLEY
NATURAL WOOL
UNDERWEAR
and HOSIERY
IS UNEXCELLED.
It is Made in Australia
from pure. Australian Merino Wool,
naturally;« shrunk, and not treated
with any harmful chemicals. With
ordinary care in washing,
“ Eagley ” will be found prac-
tically unshrinkable. All
the best stores in the
Commonwealth stock
“ EAGLEY”
U nderwear
and H
osiery.
Ask for
“Eagley’
Wholes: le Only. The “ EAGLE Y” CO. TTY. LTD., 8g York Street , Sydney; igj Flinders Lane , Melbourne; and 7 win Street, Adelaide.
Natural Wool Underwear


Plight and Day, Cried All the Time.
Used Most Everything. Cuticura
Remedies Cured Itching in 3
Days. Healed in 8 Days.
“I was taken with the itch in April, 1904,
and used most everything. I had a friend
m
m
)ii\V\\\
pay me a visit from
Cumberland, and she
advised me to use
Cuticura Remedies
which I did. The
cure was certainly
quick, and I use them
to this day. I had it
terribly under my
knees. I only used
one box of Pills, but
two boxes of Cuticura
Ointment, and I use
the Cuticura Soap all
the time. I hope this
will benefit others, as it lias me, after Dr.
and others could do nothing lor me.” (Signed)
Miss Lu Johnson, 15t!3 Ninth St. N. W., Wash-
ington, D. C., April 3, 1910.
In a later letter Miss Johnson adds: “The
trouble began with an eruption under my
knees, and extended upwards toward my
waist, until I was not able to sit clown.
It kept a constant itching and burning all
the time, night and day. I went to my
doctor but he could do me no good after I
do not know how many medicines he gave me,
and then told me I would be compelled to
go to a skin specialist, which I positively
refused to do. 1 cried all the time. Finally
I made up my mind to try Cuticura Rem-
edies, and tried Cuticura Pills, Ointment
and Soap, and was entirely cured of the itch-
ing three days after I started using them.
The healing took about eight days. I con-
sider Cuticura Remedies marvelous, and
would recommend them everywhere. I hope
everyone suffering with any skin disease will
try Cuticura, for it is'mine forevermore.”
Cuticura Soap and Cuticura Ointment are
sold throughout the world. They afford the
speediest and most economical treatment for
skin diseases, asingle set beingoften sufficient.
Send to R. Towns & Co., Sydney. N. S. W
for liberal trial box of Cuticura Ointment and
a book on skin und scalp health.
Her Youth
■cr
rB.AfcLENS
l||.. (<->..5. A)
Mexican
WALNUT STAIN
for Grey Hair
IS THE
only permanent and really satisfactory
OKE SOLUTION Hair Stain
ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES
A FAMOUS DOCTOR
testifies to the
value of
SAMOL
as a successful treatment of Rheumatism, Gout,
Sciatica, and kindred complaints.
Professor Dr. William Turk (University Lecturer
and Imperial Chief Physician, Vienna) says:—
“SAMOL. I have used Samol in my hospital in
various ailments. The ointment has been invariably
used on patients without the slightest irritation to
the skin, and brought about excellent results, par-
ticularly in cases of severe myalgia (muscular rheu-
matism).”
No remedy sold to the public has received such
recognition from the scientific world.
Samol is sold in tubes, price Is. 6d., 3s. 9d., and
65., and can be ordered through chemists or obtained
direct from the Wholesale Agent, H. A. Goddard,
96a Eagle Street, Brisbane; or 194 Vickery’s Cham-
bers, 82 Pitt Street, Sydney. [l.
Dr. E. <5. LE6ER ERSON
formerly lion, physician Auckland and Broken Hill
general hospitals.
Also of Collins Street, Melbourne ; Macquarie Street,
Sydney ; and Hay Street, Perth,
Has Resumed Practice at 50 Collins Street,
M/ilkno-../. Consult tion Hours
Melbourne, n. 30 to 12.3 , y. 45 to 7.45p.m.
Tel. 453. SPECIALTY 606.
BEST STORTES written in Australia
I appear in The Lone Hand each month.
Price sixpence.
iC
*
«o
-o
■Jo
'h ■ #ATHf£ «
WHOLESALE:
R. Reid & Co., Ltd.
Sargood Bros.
Alcock Bros., Ltd.
Petersen, Boesen
& Co., Ltd.
Etc.
RETAIL:
Everywhere, at 6d.
per tin—Black, Tan,
and Ox-biood.
A 1 icock!s
h
Plasters
The World's Greatest
External liemedy.
5S
Pains in the Back
Allcock's Plasters have no equal.
Strengthen Weak Backs
as nothing else can.
Pains in the Side
Allcock's Plasters relieve promptly
and at the same time
strengthen side and restore energy.
Allcock's is the original and genuine porous plaster.
For over 60 years it has been the standard remedy for
all aches and pains. Apply wherever there is Pain.
When you need a Pill
take a Brandreths Pill
Purely Vegetable t
(Est. 1752-)
For Constipation, Biliousness, Headache, Dizziness, Indigestion, Etc.
SOLD BY CHEMISTS EVERYWHERE.
ALL COCK MANUFACTURING CO., Birkenhead, England.
You Need This
Splendid Buggy Rug.
Out in a storm or a sudden shower the ABERDEEN
WATERPROOF Buggy Rug will protect you well.
It is quite different from glazed and rubber-covered rugs.
Never cracks, becomes sticky nor emits unpleasant odor. The
special waterproof and rot-proof cloth is lined with Sealskin,
All-Wool Check, or Kersey Cloth. Size rug : 70in. x 50in.
Colors : Brown or Khaki.
If unobtainable locally, send for price list.
Smith, Copeland & Co. Ltd.,
204-6 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
AGENTS:
QUEENSLAND: H. 1. H. ROSS, Edward Street, BRISBANE.
VICTORIA: J. BARTRAM & SON, King Street, MELBOURNE.
S. AUSTRALIA: C. WHITING, Currie Street, ADELAIDE.
TASMANIA: SEABROOK & NEAL, Collins Street, HOBART.
m
' - -
Ask, also, for Aberdeen Horse
and Cow Rug's, and Tents.
BRONCHITIS
| not
Yields
quickly
In Bronchitis,Freeman's—the Original -Chlorodyne has proved
its curative, soothing and life-saving properties again and again.
For Asthma, Influenza, Colds and all forms of Chest Trouble there is
nothing better in the world. Price 1/I£, 2/9 and 4/6 per bottle.
Recommended by Doctors for over half-a-century.
See “ Elephant" on every bottle—your safeguard against imitations.
TRADE
MARK
If your chemist
i is out of stock,
I order a bottle
can quickly
get it
FREEMAN’S
CHLORODYNE
DINNEFORDSj
> Magnesia
DINNEFORDS
i IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tationspurchasers
must see that
“ Dinneford & Co.”
is on every bottle
and label.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
MAGNESIA
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
#
*
Food
FOR INFANTS, INVALIDS AND THE AGED.
A food of great nutritive value, which can be made
suitable for any degree of digestive power by the
simple process of letting it stand for a longer or
shorter period at one stage of its preparation.
Benger’s Food forms wilh milk, a dainty, delicious and
highly nutritive cream, entirely free from rough and
indigestible partitiles. “The Lancet” describes it as
“Mr. Benger’s admirable preparation.”
BENGER'S FOOD, LIMITED, Otter Works, Manchester, England.
ganger's Food is sold in tins by Druggists, etc., everywhere.
The Inky Way.
“A. Kito”: A few days ago I rode along Bruns-
wick-street, Fitzroy (Vie.), and saw men demolish-
ing the Champion Hotel, long time kept by Jerry
Boland, one of the pioneer sweep promoters. In a
corner I saw a bricked-in recess —the safe where
the sweep money was deposited. A new building is
to cover the old ground. Years ago Marcus Clarke
and Grosvenor Bunster did some good work at the
old pub. They had been told off by the Age and
Argus to go out to Yan Yean, in connection with
the big water-supply scheme, and hired saddle hacks
for the trip. Fitzroy was a very different place
then. From the Eastern Hill, looking northwards,
there appeared a forbidding stretch of forest. We
know from the oft-quoted preface to Gordon’s poems
how Clarke viewed the “weird melancholy” of the
bush, and .it is understandable that the cheery old
Champion Hotel offered more congenial conditions
than a bush track and the Plenty Ranges. The
pair put up at the pub, and ran up their expense", as
journalists ought at all times to do. After a lcvelv
time they thought it advisable to return to head-
quarters. The horses were lent to boys, who were
instructed to get them covered with mud and travel
marks; that done, the scribes landed in town, ob-
viously wearied after the long journey, but thor-
oughly capable of turning out excellent descriptive
copy about the immense watershed, and the future
possibilities of the system. I could almost imagine
that Clarke prophesied Fitzgibbon and the Metrop.
Board of Works in his excellent story of what he did
not see.
“Wellington”: Re the wail of “Derwent” (B.
13/7/’ll), which obviously refers to the directors of
the Hobart Post. Writer says the local pressmen
who asked for increased pay, etci, collapsed on the
doormat. If they did, more than likely the weight
of their own cheek caused the disaster; for with
that modesty with which this Writers and Artists’
Union is now famed, they presented the directors with
a schedule of wages which provided that the sub-
editor should get £1 a week more than the general
manager was getting. The Post supports the Labor
party because the man who controls the paper’s des-
tiny believes in it, but the W. and A. Union evidently
thought that milch cows were kept on the premises
in place of directors, and, when it was suddenly
discovered otherwise —well, the above-mentioned door-
mat collapse event'-ated. Even the r| vnographical
Union, when appealed to, scornfully refused to sup-
port the scale.
The struggle for telegraphic brevity has quaint
results sometimes. A wire reached Hobart the other
dav that Frank Thorn ( 9st. 51b.) and Jim Arm-
strong (9st. 71b.) had fought at Broken Hill. But the
telegraphist wanted to save money, so he knocked
out the “st.” and the “lb.” ; and the paper “howled”
next day that Thorn was 95 and Armstrong 97, and
the beautiful yarn was headed “Ancient Competi-
tors.”
“J. Shay”: For brassy impudence C. G. Wade
takes the V.C. In the House the other night, when
the Government proposed to prolong the sitting, the
Hero of Ivembla almost wept over the cruelty of
keeping Hansard and Gallery scribes working such
inhuman hours. Yet no Premier ever sweated the
scribe* as Wade himself did when he ran the foundry.
When'lie Wanted a Bill bullocked through, or an
item smuggled in without criticism, he didn’t hesi-
tate to keep the House sitting actually days on end.
On one occasion he kept all hands at it from Wed-
nesday till Friday morning. When the great Jour-
nalists’ Association does get busy, if ever it does,
one of the evils it will tackle is the unholy sweating
that goes on in connection with prolonged Parlia-
mentary debates. But of all politicians, Wade will
certamlv be about the last the pressmen will go to
for either sympathy or justice.
A new weekly blossoms in Melbourne early this
month. Society it will call itself, and it proposes
to “light-heartedly comment upon current events.” It
will be propelled by R. P. Thompson (late of Ade-
lide Critic), assisted by Harold Ilansell, the manu-
facturer of “Dewdrop Dandy.”
• * * »
At the Empire Press banquet in the Prince’s re-
staurant, London, Geoffrey Fairfax, who was born
into the S. M. Herald. remarked that he had been
asked how it was that the oversea press had attained
such a high standard. Speaking for the Australian
Press, he thought the answer was because they took
the London papers as their models, and tried to pre-
serve the same tone. Whereupon a cvnical ancient
who was present, remarked quite audibly that, in
that case, it was a pity the Herald’s models were
40 years old. "*
KING BILLY CHIPS IN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Boss Oberseer, Dat Bullumtin 1 Goo’ day, boss!
Flurry ’ot!
Bloke tell me writum Bullumtin, bin plenty bacca
got.
“You Billy, makuin writin’-yabber,” bloke he say
to me ; j
“Him quick bin pay fer writin’ —plenty tsugar,
plenty tea.”
S’pose mine write it pretty good, you gib it two-
t’ree poun’ ?
Bin teachum mishum station plenty good write
yabber down.
Mine jes’ bin readin’ Bullumtin alonga scrub.. Ma
word !
Mine tink it Gub’mint yabber ’bout de bes’ de kin’
I heard.
Mine tink it pitcher budgerry—dat Lin’say an’ dat
Hop.
Mine tink it dem corrob’ree songs been alia same up
top.
Bin plenty good, dat lubra yabber; Red Page, berry
tine;
Dat White Australia policy jes’ same alonga mine.
But, tell yob straight, boss, all dat talk ’bout pos-
sum, ’roo and snake,
Bin pull your leg, mine tink it. It bin all a plurry
fake.
Mine s’pose dem blokes bin walkabout dat bush down
Sydney way.
Bin talkuin t’ro’ dcre ploomin’ hat ’bout eberyting
dey say !
Bin eatehum snake, mine tink it, outer bottle, longa
pub.
Too much dam lie about dem tings dey neber seen
in scrub.
Ma wud! Mine plenty bin in bush ; bin plenty much
out back,
But neber meet dem pfellers anywhere alonga track.
Mine tink dey catchum too much corns dey walk
alonga scrub,
Dey don’t bin losum sight of bed an’ plenty pfeller
grub.
Mine neber meet dat “Dandalup,” or “Wang,” or
“William Cann.”
Dat “Quail,” mine tink, drive butcher cart, an’
“Snell” bin tramway man.
Mine tell you, bos3, dem blokes no good; dey all
bin habin’ you.
Mine tink dat “Chimmie Pannican” bin plurry
chackeroo!
So boss, you listen longa me; you make quick
catchum sack,
An’ Billy him bin send you, plenty yabber ’bout
outback.
S’pose you gib it glassercum, mine writum Wil’ Cat
too.
You gib it bottle rum, mine run whole plurry show
for you.
Don’ bin forgettum bacca, rum, when you bin writin’
nex’ ;
Mine wantum plenty bad ; ma wud 1 Mine bin yours,
Billy Rex.
VICTORIA.
C. J. D.


WHY YOU CAN TfiUST MY
FREE CIGAR
TRIAL
iZU/Y\,
ALMOST everybody knows about my efforts
to make Cigar-smoking popular in Aus-
tralia.
My FREE CIGAR TRIAL is this:—l’ll send
you a box of ioo DIADEMAS for 22/6 —equal, as
they are, to any Gd. Cigar on the market; really
worth £2 ss, per 100—and you can smoke 5 or 6
of them. If they aren't as good as any Cigar
you have ever tried, send the remainder back to
me, and I’ll refund your money in full, without
any charge for those you’ve smoked.
ĥ
Now, I want to prove to
you how straight this offer is.
You might think —“Why
doesn’t he send the box up
without any money, and let
us send the money on when
we’ve tried the 5 or 6 and
found them as good as he
says, or else return the
balance then ?”
I tell you right off, I’d like
to do that. But that would
put all the trusting on my
side—and I’ve got to make a
living.
I know nearly every man-
jack ofyou would act straight
tome if I did make this offer.
But you know as well as I
there are some who would
get the Cigars, and let me
whistle for the money.
I know there’d be only a
few who would do this; but
I sell my Cigars so close to
cost—-cutting off all the ware-
houseman's, traveller’s and
retailer’s profits—that these
few would cripple my scheme
altogether. That’s why I
can’t do it and give the same
Cigar value as I give to-day.
I know you’re trusting me
in sending down the money
before you get the Cigars.
But you’ll get the Cigars
right by return post, never
fear, You can smoke sor 6
of them, and if they’re not
as good as you expected,
you can send what are left
right back. I’ll return yout money every
penny of it, with no deduction whatever—
and even here you needn't only take my word
for it.
I have my banking account at the Com-
mercial Bank of Australia Limited, Melbourne.
The General Manager there knows all about
me and my way of doing business. He'll vouch
for me; and you can refer to him before you
send any order at all to me. That’s proof of my
squareness, isn’t it?
Sit down now and send me 22/6 to-day, and
I’ll forward you a box of 100 DIADEMAS —
Cigars that I promise are equal to any 6d.
Cigar sold in Australia- —made from clean, long,
straight Brazilian leaf, and rolled in the finest
Java wrapper.
My Only Address is
LOUIS KAUFFMANN
34 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE
Illustrated Descriptive Booklet will be
Mailed Free to any address.
ħ
Look manly and
smart by growing an attrac-
tive Moustache. ‘MOUSTA,’
the True Moustache Grower,
speedily forces one at any
age like magic. Quite harmless to use.
Boys, become men. ‘ Mousta ’is used
all over tbe world and is strongly
recommended by the Medical Pro-
fession. Entire success or money willingly
returned. ‘ Mousta ’ produces astonishingly
quick results and is the talk of London.
Full Treatment, sufficient to promote Good
Growth, 5/- (postage 6d. extra), sent at once
in plain wrapner on receipt of International
Money Order, 5/6. Send now to —
F. DIXON & CO,, 42, Junction Road,
London, N., England.
h
The'Standavd Kennedy which has outlived the Centuries-
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
la use sine. ISM.
CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ash your chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
s. GREEN, 210. Lambeth Road, London, Eng.
“ nriHE Australian thinks in Continents, because
I he is the only man who has a Continent
to think in.” THE LONE HAND is the only
Magazine that caters for a Continent.
~mr
RIRP" ARK
•^UNDERWEAR
Hade in
England
trade
My v w
The “ BIRD MARK” on your Underwear
is a guarantee that the garments are made from
the finest Australian Lambswool and Cotton,
and in some qualities Silk is added.
The garments also have patented improve-
ments and fit the figure perfectly.
The most perfect underwear for hot weather
is the ‘‘BIRD MARK” Merino and Silk
Underwear, it will stand hard wear yet light in
weight.
Sold by all Drapers and Outfitters.
Wholesale only
I. & R. MORLEY and GEO. BRETTLE & CO.,
London, E.C
Ask for THE 4 BIRD MARK ’ ME INO UNDERWEAR
ONTHE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound ; containing upwards of Three hundred
of “ Hop’s ” best drawings. Full Bulletin size
Price, 21s.
THREE WITCHES
CIGARETTES.
40RR1SS KjWJ
hree Witches
D CIOARtTTB3 \sgl
-"tlriUltS
6’ for 10 |
London raw-
HIGHEST GRADE.
6s per 100, Post Free.
MICK SIMMONS, SYDNEY.
Storekeepers and Tobacconists should
send for our Trade Lists.
V,, \
7/
m
%
■7
17
7
tt
'//,
II
///■//#//' y/ZZr
iWm
l I
w/
/r
Ws
•'wS-w
-
Jr,
wm*
s s
y//y
vr-v**
m
ALV*
• -y7 •
: i
/
'*.-«.V"
ri\«;
1 W
v*?*
JjJ=Y£
9
*T»
X
r ‘<r
ui
•V s *
f*
Sr
fSrv
Ml
<>
£8
/
<>*
ss
f'vV
Tyres in the Making.
2. Cleansing the Rubber is perhaps the most important process
in the preparation of the raw material. Dirt, stones, pieces of bark,
leaves, foreign substances of many kinds become deposited in it; and
before the rubber is fit for rolling and mixing every particle of these
impurities must be removed by a long process of very careful washing.
STOCKISTS*
14
All the Leading' Agents.


Shipping.
P. and 0. BRANCH SERVICE
For DURBAN, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
* Twin-screw
SALOON ACCOMMODATION, AMIDSHIPS,
CONVERTED INTO VERY SUPERIOR
ONE CLASS.
LONDON .. „ .. £l6, £lB and £2O.
CAPETOWN and NATAL £l3 135., £l5 15b. and £l7 17s.
CILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD., 7 Bent St.
Mki.iiournk Agents : JOHN SANDERSON Ac CO.,
11l William-street.
Adelaide Ac Fremantle Agknts : GEO. WILLS Ac CO.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA. ENGLAN D.
Pitted with Wireless Telegraphy. New and luxurious
12,000-ton Steamers. Cahines-de-luxe ; State-rooms, with
bedsteads; Single Berth Rooms, Private Bathrooms,;
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Sailing every fortnight from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Place, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
of north Queensland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of George and Bridge Sis.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director :
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 4 QUEEN VICTORIA STREET, E.C.
Manager: R. R. LOVE.
Bankers : THE LONDON COUNTY & WESTMINSTER
BANK LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Bank of |)eui Z ealan d-
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
Total Capital Paid-up £2,000,000
Uncalled Capital .. £500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits £1,034,405
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, iNew Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
THE
Australian Bank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL - - - £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,198,344
PAID-UP (30th June, 1911) - - - £1,180,812
HEAD OFFICE—George and King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE—2 King William Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS—Sir William P. Manning, Ivt., Chairman;
George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D.; Ciias. H. Myles, Esq. ;
Mark Sheldon, Esq. ; Arthur S. Barton, Esq.; Frank
N. Yarwood, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the world.
A. P. STEWART, General Manager.
The ...
Queensland National Bank,
Limited
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. £800,000 0 0
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. .. 413,491 8 10
Reserve (in Gov. Stock) .. .. .. 94,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock . 3,091,669 4 5
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
Directors: JAS. MILNE, Esq., Chairman; JAMES
MUNRO, Esq. ; Hon. A. J. OALLAN, Esq., M.L.C. ;
JOHN CAMERON, Esq. ; F. LORD, Esq.
General Manager— W. V. RALSTON.
Branches—London, Sydney & throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up £519,237 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. .. 161,384 0 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) .. 75,500 0 0
£756,121 0 0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE.
Gen. Mngr.: Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London,
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
The Colonial mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and
Annuities without Mutual Liability ; also
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds. £3,219,446.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £5,300,000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The IIor. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Shipping:.
REDUCED FARES
To EUROPE
BY
N ord Deutscher L/loyd.
PASSENGERS booked to Egypt, Naples,
Genoa, Algiers, Marseilles, Gibraltar,
London, Antwerp, and Bremen.
All Steamers fitted with “ Wireless ” installation.
* Fitted with Gymnasium.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
REGULAR FOUR - WEEKLY MAIL
SERVICE from Sydney and Brisbane, via
New Guinea, by Twin-screw Steamers.
For Passage and Full Particulars apply to—
LOHMANN & CO., General Agents,
7 & 9 Bridge Street, Sydney ;
OSTERMEYER DEWEZ & VAN ROMPACY, Melbourne ;
H. MUECKjE & CO., Adelaide;
L. RATAZZI & CO., Perth and Fremantle ;
THOS. BROWN & SONS, Ltd., Brisbane and Townsville.
COLOREp POST CARDS, by Harry J.
Weston “ WEEKLY WORRIES.”
Set of six, posted free, 6d. Bxjlletin
Newspaper Co. 214 George St., Sydney.
THC AB€RD€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth and
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
All steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy,
f New Steamer.
FARES— Saloon. 3rd Class.
London ... ... From £57 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Special Return Tickets available for outward passage
by Orient Line— £ll2 (First-class each way); £B5
(Second-class Orient.).
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the niftiest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
DALCETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN,PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
Twin-screw Steamers.
SUEVIC, 12,500 tons, to sail about
August 30.
PERSIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
September 27.
RUNIC, MEDIC and AFltlC to follow.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy and
Submarine Sijrnallinjr Appiratus.
h
Only One Class of Accommodation.
FAUKS— Capetown or Durban *l5 15 0 to £24 3 0
London .. -• 19 0 0 Co 30 0 0
Melbourne .. .. •• 1 10 0
New York, Boston, Quebec,
Montreal, Sc. from 35 0 0
Pamphlets and all other information on application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
DALGETY & COMPANY, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
YOUR WINTER
HOLIDAY.
SEND for our Booklet, “Papua and the
Pacific Islands, How to visit them?”
describing many delightful Island trips from
upwards. Most attractive as Winter
Holiday Cruises.
ĥ
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., 11 Bridge St., Sydney.
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES,
HEAD OFFICE: MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
MONEY TO LEND
To Farmers and Settlers from £5O to £2OOO,
repayable by instalments extending: over 30 years
with right to repay loan without penalty.
Partial repayments on favorable terms.
Low rates of interest.
Valuation Fees on lowest scale.
On Investment up to £25,C00 for fixed terms not
exceeding five years on Freeholds or Certificated C. P s.
and Associated O.lYs. Interest payable half-yearly.
Right to repay one-fifth of principal each year
allowed.
Lowest current rates of interest.
Fall particulars and forms of application for loans obtainable at any Branch or Post
Crown Land-" Agents and at the Head Office, MOORE STREET. SYDNEY.
Office Agency, or from
J. 11. Davies, Secretary.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital .... ..... £2,991,560
Reserve Fund ...» - ..... £1,969,435
Reserve Liability .... { ----- £2,991,560
£7,952,555
DIRECTORS :
The Hon. C. K. MacKellar, M.L.C., President;.
Senator The Hon. James Thomas Walker.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Nonnand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.C.
Auditors : Alfred George Milson, Esq. ; William Harrington Palmer, Esq.
Head Office—George St., Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle St., E.C.
With 332 Branches in all the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji and Papua (New South Wales lds, Victoria 38,
Queensland 49, South Australia 5, West Australia 11, New Zealand 57, Tasmania 1, Fiji 3, Papua 2,
London 1); and Agentsand Correspondents throughout Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India, China,
Japan, and the East, Africa, Canada, the United States, South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
Cable remittances made to, and Drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills negotiated and
collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up ... ... £1,500,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 1,460,000 0 0
Reserve Capital .. ... 1,500,000 0 (1
£4,460,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
George J. Cohen, Esq. .. .. Chairman.
Hon. 11. E. Rater, M.L.C. .. .. Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C. A. J. Onslow Thompson, Esq.
Hon. Jambs Burns, M.L.C.
Auditors : F. W. Hixson, Esq., and W. L. Docker, Esq.
General Man aye r : T. A. Dibbs.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
H. H. Massie.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
Manager : A. J. Soutar.
Accountant : W. It. Sayers.
Secretary : M. S. Grant.
Branch Accountant: J. Clayton.
Inspectors:
W. C. B. Tiley, W. H. Piniiey.
London Office: IS Bircltin - Lane.
Directors : F. 11. Dangar, Esq. ; Hon. 11. Si. Littleton ;
N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manager, F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout Lite world.
The METROPOLITAN
ACCIDENT, FIRE
and GENERAL
INSURANCE COMPANY, LIMITED.
THE CO-OPERATIVE FIRE OFFICE
Shares Issued to Contributors of Business.
When Your Premium is Due Get Pull Particulars.
HEAD OFFICE: 30 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
BRANCHES: Victoria, S. Aus., Queensland.
THE LONE HAND offers you the Glad
Hand. It’s the Right Hand, and a week
after publication there are none left.
THE OCEAN
Accident & Guarantee
Corporation Limited,
Ocean House, 22 Moore Street, Sydney.
IMRE, ACCIDENT, WORKMEN’S COM-
- PENSATION, PUBLIC RISK, BUR-
GLARY and PLATE GLASS INSURANCES
at Lowest Rates.
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.,
FOR
Ordinary 8 Industrial Life Assurance.
Directors:
H. Montgomerie Hamilton, Esq., Chairman.
Victor E. Ludlow, Esq., L.R.C.5.1., L.K.Q.C.P.I.
Claude Manning, Esq.
John F. Ure, Esq.
Ceneral Manager: J. A. Henderson.
Secretary: Consulting Actuary:
Freeman J. Eaton. W. 11. Day, F.I.A.
Ilead Office:
30 CASTLEREACH ST. (facing Moore St.), SYDNEY.
Queensland: Victoria:
Metropolitan Buildings, 48 Queen St.,
Adelaide St., Brisbane. Melbourne.
The “Metropolitan" always has vacancies on its
Agency Staff for reliable and trustworthy men. ,
A N Australian’s Two Hands—THE LONE
HAND and THE BULLETIN. You can’t
do without either, and they both cost the same.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO,
(LIMITED). '
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports,
FOE MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping- at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
GEBALDTON (VV.A.)
S.R. Kyarra (7000), Satur-
day, Sept. 2.
S.S. Kootnbana, for Fre-
mantle direct, at an earlv
date.
BIIISBANE
MAOKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Oii
S.S. Innamincka, Aug. 12.
H.S. Marloo, Aust. 19.
S.s. Grautala, Aug. 26.
Best and Cheapest Route to Goldfields,
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable alter tin-
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on a'
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company's Office.
G. S. VUILL Sc CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 URIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE “ ALL-It EH ” ROUTE.
To VANCOU VER, via AUCKLAND
(N.Z.), FIJI, and HONOLULU,
thence by Rail to any part of
CANADA or UNITED STATES.
The Best Route to Europe.
SAILINGS :
And every 2S days thereafter.
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Illustrated Pamphlets Free on Application.
Agents throughout Canada, United States
and Europe—Canadian Pacific Railway Co.
For full particulars apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George-street, Sydney.
r.— n.—s.
Federal-Houlder-Shire Lines.
STEAM TO LONDON
Via SUEZ CANAL.
T.S.S. “SUFFOLK,”
11,400 Tons. P. Davies, Commander.
Will be uespatched from SYDNEY about 24th Aug.
„ „ „ MELBOURNE „ 30th Aug.
~ ~ „ ADELAIDE ~ sth Sept.
The saloon accommodation consists of all two-berth
cabins on the upper deck, situated amidships.
The superior third-class accommodation, comprised of
two, four and eight-berth cabins, situated on the main
deck, amidships, with dining room on the upper deck.
Well lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious decks.
Third-class passengers supplied with fresh provisions
from cool chamber throughout the voyage. Surgeon and
Stewardess carried. Electric light throughout. Return
and Round Trip tickets issued via Cape and (or) Suez
routes. Prepaid passages arranged.
Saloon. Third Class.
FARES .. £49 10s. £l3 13s. £15155. £17175.
Steerage fares from Brisbane One Guinea extra.
To be followed at regular four-weekly intervals by fast
twin-screw passenger steamers. For further information,
illustrated hooks, pamphlets, etc., apply to
BIRT & CO., Ltd., Sydnev and Brisbane;
H. JONES & CO.. Ltd., Hobart;
McILWRAITH, McEAOHARN & Co., Ltd., Melbourne;
ELDER, SMITH & Co., Ltd.. Adelaide.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Colline-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £41,000 0 0
Dirkctors : 11. Murray Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Chairman :
John Grice, Esq., Vice-Chairman ; Hon J. M. Pratt; J. H.
MacFarland, Esa., M.A., LL.D. ; Alexander M'Cracken.
JAMES BORROW MAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda., Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
HVT OTICED the recent increase in the bulk of
The Lone Hand ? Of course, it is the
advertisers who are primarily to blame. They
will rush it. But it enables the proprietor to
give more reading matter for the same pri«e—
Sixpence. .
Millars’ Karri 8 Jarrah
Co. (19021, Ltd.
Wk Supply—
JARRAH Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’ Scant-
ling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
72 BISHOPSGATE STREET WITHIN,
LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, Via
C3£ PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Blanches in all parts of the world.


4
St }
n
%
¥
&
M
n
O
> /FA
*r J> j
v-i
S*» ,;
CAMERAS FOR
THE CHILDREN
FOR children (and grown-ups, too) the Brownie-Kodak Cameras
offer endless enjoyment and wholesome, instructive fun. They
offer opportunity for the cultivation of love for the beautiful
without irksome, tiresome attention to detail.
Your boy or girl can quickly become conversant with the
delightful pastime of picture-making with the Brownie-Kodak. Every
operation is simple and sure. No dark room or previous experience
is necessary. It's daylight all the way with Kodak photography,
and it's interesting, edifying and fascinating from start to finish. Come
in and learn more about these splendid little Cameras, or write for a
free copy of the Kodak Catalogue, which furnishes complete details.
No. 1 BROWNIE, 5/-
Takes pictures 2£in. x
and has a carrying capacity
of 6 exposures without re-
filling. Weighs only Boz.
Price 5/-; Postage 6d. extra.
No. 2 BROWNIE, 10/-
Mak'es rectangular pictures
2£in. x and has a
capacity of 6 exposures,
without reloading. Only
weighs 13oz.
Price 10/-; Postage 9d. extra.
No. 2a BROWNIE. 12/6.
Takes 6 or 12 pictures 2.2 in.
x 4£in. without reloading,
and weighs 21oz.
Price 12/0 ; Postage 1/- extra.
No. 3 BROWNIE, 17/6.
Makes 12 quarter-plates,
x 4|in., without re-
loading. Weighs 250 z.
Price 17/6; Postage 1/- extra.
No. 2 FOLDING BROWNIE,
21/-
For Pictures 2|in. x 3|in.,
and makes 6 exposures
without reloading. Weighs
16oz.
Price 21/- ; Postage 9d. extra.
No. 2a FOLDING BROWNIE,
30/-
For pictures 2/rin. x 4£in.,
and makes 6 or 12 pictures
without reloading.
Price 30/- j Postage 1/- extra.
No. 3 FOLDING BROWNIE,
37/6.
Makes 12 quarter - plates,
x 4£in., without re-
loading. Weighs 250 z.
Price 37/6 ; Postage 1/- extra.
No. 3a FOLDING BROWNIE,
42/.
The popular postcard size, 3Jin.
x siin. Has a capacity for 12
exposures without reloading:.
Price, with Single Lens, 42/-;
Rectilinear Lens, SO/- ; Post-
age 1/3 extra.
No. 2 STEREO BROWNIE,
50/-
For Stereo Pictures, each 3Jin. x
2Jin., and has a capacity for 10
st.ereo exposures without le-
loading. With a pair of Aoluo-
inatic Meniscus Lenses.
Price 50/-; Postage 1/3 extra.
KODAK (Australasia) LTD.,
Incorporating Baker
& Rouse Prop. Ltd.
(Sole Agents for THE GAUMONT CO., LTD., Cinematograph Experts),
379 George St., Sydney. “The Block,” 284 Collins St., Melbourne. 37 Rundle St., Adelaide. 78-80 Queen St., Brisbane.
Ruthven St., Toowoomba. Flinders St., Townsville. 346 Argent St., Broken Hill. 6 Mercer St., Wellington, and at Auckland, N.Z.
m
o
/
X
Fine New Diamond
and
Platinum Jewellery
at the Treasure House.
No. i—Choice Diamond Set Necklet. Set with Finest
(Quality White Diamonds in Real Platinum, with Fine
Platinum Trace Pattern Chain. £55.
No. 2 — Exquisite Diamond Set Brooch. Set with
Specially Selected Fine White Diamonds in Real
Platinum. £45.
No. 3— Beautiful Diamond Set Necklet. Set with Finest
Quality Brilliant Cut Diamonds in Real Platinum.
£42.
No. 4—Handsome fiamond Set Flexible Bangle. Set
with II Pine Quality White Diamonds in Real
Platinum, and Isct. Gold. £75.
No. 5 — Exquisite Diamond Set Heart Pendant. Set
with Specially Selected Fine White Diamonds in i cct.
Gold. £3O.
No. 6— Dainty Diamond Set Earrings. Set with 6 Fine
Quality Brilliant Cut Diamonds in Real Platinum and
iSet. Gold. £l7/10/=
No. 7 —Elegant Diamond and Pearl Earrings. Set with
Fine White Diamonds and Whole White Pearls
£lO/10/=
No. B— A Unique Diamond Set Crossover Ring. Set
with 9 Fine White Diamonds in Real Platinum and
i Set. Gold. £2l.
No. 9— Quaintly Designed Diamond Set Necklet. Set
with Specially Selected Fine White Diamonds in Real
Platinum, with Fine Trace Pattern Platinum Chain.
£5O.
No. io—Very Effective Diamond Set Ring. Set with
Fine Quality Diamonds in Real Platinum and lSct.
Gold. £lB/10/=
Stewart Dawson
STRAND CORNER. 8 Co. (AuSt.) Ltd.
412 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.


Lung Trouble
and Wasting.
Footscray, Victoria, Aus.
Dear Sirs, —After an attack of pleurisy followed by pneumonia I suffered
from debility with much loss of weight, and could not regain strength. The
doctor said I was in a decline and ordered me away. I determined instead to
give Angier’s Emulsion a trial, and I am very pleased that I did so, for the
result has been most gratifying. My friends are greatly astonished at the
improvement in my appearance, and I can honestly and thankfully say that I am
better now than I have been for many years. Ido not wish you to publish my
name, but will gladly answer any enquiries that may come to you concerning
this testimonial. (Name and address furnished privately).
A FREE SAMPLE
sent on receipt of 4d. postage. Mention this paper.
THE ANGIER CHEMICAL CO.. Ltd., 7 Barrack St., Sydney.
ANGIERffMULSION
Angler's Emulsion is invaluable in all throat and lung affections ; also for digestive
disorders and wasting diseases. It soothes and heals the lungs and air passages,
promotes normal, healthy action of the digestive organs, and builds up health and
strength. Angier’s Emulsion is pleasant to take and agrees perfectly with delicate
stomachs. Of all chemists, 1/3, 2/9 and 4/6..
Join the Army
Of those who have tested the wonderful remedial
virtues of Dr. Sheldon’s Magnetic Liniment. It
gives speedy relief whenever applied to a burn,
blister, bruise, or a pain or sore of any nature.
Price, Is. 6d. and 3s.*
The
NATIONAL
EXHIBITION
BRISBANE will be en fete in
August. The City will be
crowded with visitors. They’ll
come in in thousands to see what we
can do —and we’ll show them. And
do you know that Finney’s will be
one of the principal Show places ?
That the Roof Garden Cafe will be a
feature that no other Australian city
could “ put up” ? That the beautiful,
big Showroom, with its wealth of
Millinery and Costume Models, will
delight many thousands every day ?
That Finney’s will prove to anyone
who wants proof that their Prices
are the Lowest in the Land ?
Hadn’t you better come yourself?
Finney, Isles 8 Co.
LIMITED,
BRISBANE.
Legal Notices.
N THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES.
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION. BE-
TWEEN JESSIE NEWBY (formerly Jessie Guthrie)
Petitioner and WILLIAM PENMAN NEWBY Re-
spondent.
To WILLIAM PENMAN NEWBY late of Balmain
carpenter. TAKE NOTICE that the said JESSIE
NEWBY has commenced a suit against you in this
Honorable Court and is applying for a dissolution of
marriage on the grounds of desertion without just
cause or excuse during three years and upwards ami
take notice that you are required to enter an appear-
ance to the said suit at the proper office of thi-
ll onorable Court on or before the twenty-seventh da'
of October next and in the event of your not doing
so within the time limited or obtaining further time
the Petitioner will proceed and the suit be heard and
determined your absence notwithstanding. A cop.'
of the petition filed herein may be had on application
to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this 25th day of July, a.d. 1911.
R. J. M. FOORD,
Solicitor for Petitioner.
Lombard Chambers, 107 Pitt Street, Sydney.
FOR THE REGISTRAR.
JOHN GEO. LEARY (1.5.).
Chief Clerk.
Estate of WILLIAM BIDDLE, late of Nerrigundah.
deceased.
NOTICE is hereby given to THOMAS BIDDLE and
ELIZABETH BIDDLE, two children of the late
Richard and Ann Biddle, of Nerrigundah, that the>
must prove their title to a share of the above Estate
within one month from date. If the said THOMAS:
and ELIZABETH BIDDLE are dead, their children
(if any) are requested to communicate with the un-
dersigned within the time specified.
T. W. GARRETT, Curator of Intestate Estates.
Sydney, 4th August, 1911.
IN
BANANA LAND
The new Standing Orders of the Banana-
land Assembly provide for the election of the
Speaker by exhaustive ballot in place of the
open voting which has been the method
hitherto.
A Bananaland drover, named Broadhurst,
recently put up a good performance; he
took 2065 fat bullocks from Roslyn Station,
in the Upper Burnett district, to the Glad-
stone meat-works without losing a single
beast.
Died at South Brisbane on July 29, Dr.
Joseph Lauterer, a well-known scientist, who
had served as a surgeon in the Franco-Prus-
sian war. Some years ago he made investi-
gations into Zamia poisoning for the Bana-
naland Stock Department.
James Forsyth, M.L.A., who should have
been Treasurer in the Denham Cabinet, has
been playing the part of candid friend to the
extravagant Ministry he is supposed to fol-
low. According to Forsyth, if the Denham
Ministry doesn’t haul in, financial calamity
is a certainty. Forsyth gave a similar warn-
ing to the old Philp crowd many years ago,
and the old Philp crowd smiled. But he was
right that time, as he will be this time.
Brisbane dailies protest vehemently
against the growing “irreverence” of the
State M’s.L.A., as exhibited when Speaker
Armstrong reads the daily prayer. It ap-
pears the members stand and gossip at the
bar during the minutes devoted to Divine
supplication, and then troop in to call one
another liars and scoundrels from 3.30 to 11
p.m. The press doesn’t mind the Billings-
gate, but it hurts the Courier and the Mail
to find only one M.L.A. out of 72 on hand to
say “Amen” when the prayer ceases.
Labor member Adamson asserted in the
Bananaland Assembly the other night that
M.L.A. Crawford wasn’t fired out of the
Labor party because of his vote on the Bible
in State Schools Bill, but because he
stated at Mount Morgan that the members
of the party were manacled, and ivould be
glad to break away from certain things if
they could. According to the ex-reverend,
Crawford was given a chance to retract this,
but wouldn’t do it, so out lie went. All the
same, the Mount Morgan man’s Bible-in-
State-Schools vote was one of the four mat-
ters on which charges were made against
him byjihe local league.
Parson Niemeyer, of Hatton Vale, the head
of the German Apostolic Church in Banana-
land, a most enthusiastic barracker for Aus-
tralia, celebrated the 25th anniversary of
his appointment to the job the other day.
During the last three or four years he has
introduced about 600 immigrants from
Kaiser Bill’s land into the Northern State.
The guileless public generally imagines
that brown bread is more nourishing than
white, but a recent Bakers’ Conference in
Brisbane threw a light on the subject. Ac-
cording to one dough-puncher, “brown bread
may mean simply dirty flour”; while a lead-
ing baker remarked cryptically : “Hardly any
brown bread is put on the market that has
not had some qualities added to it.” No
wonder Gov. Maegregor, who was presiding,
thanked Heaven that he himself was raised
on parritch. ,
The pastoral industry of Western Queens-
land is busy counting its chickens, some
hatched, others still in the shell. Probably
over half the income tax of Bananaland is
derived from graziers, great and small, and
the gorgeous motor-car flourishes profusely
on Western stations. The other day, in 15
minutes, a few Longreach pastoralists sub-
scribed £15,000, to start a motor-carrying
co. for the Western wool trade.
THE GEE AT AUSTRA-
LIAN SLANGUAGE.
BILL THE BREAKER: “ lean
manage them others all
right , but that black ’orse is a fair cow.”
It cost the Government £5OOO to settle the
Waipara argument with the B. I. and Q. N.
Co., and not £5OO, as originally reported.
Perhaps it was cheap, even at that price;
anyway, -Costs never looked so disgusted
since the Robb arbitration case was finished.
“J.F.”: Re passengers alighting from
tram-cars on the wrong side. The new Bris-
bane Tramways Regulations provide a pen-
alty of £2O for anyone committing that fool-
ishness, and Home Sec. Appel says the rule
will certainly be put in force, though the pub-
lic will be warned before proceedings are
started. So Badger, of the Tramway Co.,
isn’t going to be told to spend a few pbunds
in fencing the blind sides on cars running
on double-track routes; all the expense the
co. will be put to will be in printing a couple
of notices to tell the venturesome or thought-
less passenger that, if he escapes being killed,
he will be fined £2O. The prospect is cheer-
ful, and maybe the intelligent Appels will
now make it optional for shipping cos. to
rail in their decks. It would be much less
expensive for the cos,, to post up a notice
threatening the passenger who fell over with
a fine —if he wasn’t drowned.
A Chant of Dodery.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Our Legislative Councils contain representatives of
all that is best in our commerce and leading indus-
tries. —Brisbane daily.
We render thanks to Providence,
Who raineth on us pounds and pence,
That, in this day of grief and guile,
Of raging Democratic wile,
To Us (who be of much bereft)
There is at least one haven left —-
One spot where We,
From cumber free,
Can sit in Fatted Calm and sigh
To see the wicked world go by.
For hob-nailed Hodge our Council fair
Has little room and space to spare;
But Stodge and Podge
And Devious-Dodge—
Those genial gents who always wear
A waistcoat white and broadcloth rare
And shining hats—are always there.
Its cushioned seats, its gilded hall,
Shed gentle Peace on one and all;
And oft we catch on passing breeze —
“How blessed be the mortgagees!”
How happy he whom Trade or Beer
Has sent to sleep right regal here !
And We must see
That none but We,
Whose bankbooks give a Guarantee,
Shall trespass where these splendors bel
For hob-nailed Hodge our Council fair
Has mighty little room to spare;
But Gents who wear
Their broadcloth rare,
A shiny hat, a waistcoat white,
And pants that always crease aright,
Like Stodge and Podge,
And Devious-Dodge,
And Blenkins Stout (of Blither and Blare),
And all their clan are always there.
QUEENSLAND.
A. FOSS HILL.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, August 5, 1911.
My Dear Thargomindaii,—
The Macgregor’s foot is once more on the
social heath, and his lady melts again with
gentle compassion for his over-worked condi-
tion. And, taking one thing with another,
my dear, it is just as well that we do not
pay our Exes, at piece-rates, or the bill would
be so big that there wouldn’t be enough left
to enable the gifted Denham to import those
stalwart pick and shovel athletes from Brum-
magem. Since he recovered from his recent
indisposition, the Chieftain has been toiling
like a demon, watching football matches,
making congratulatory remarks to charity or-
ganisations, blinking an interested eye at
Technical and other Colleges, shaking hands
with a Bakers’ Conference, and planting
another stone from which a public building
is to sprout at Ipswich. The trouble is that
Queensland is not the only State where this
sweating of George V.’s ambassadors is going
on, and any day I’m expecting to hear that
the Industrial Union of Governors has been
formed, affiliated with the Trades Hall,
signed the party pledge, and applied for a
Wages Board. Then, if the union gets a
fair deal, its members will be granted an
eight-hour day, and time and a-half for any
champagne that has to be guzzled overtime.
With all the above-mentioned work to be
done by the Boss, Lady Mac and daughter
had to go frivolling by themselves. Their
prettiest dresses were reserved for the Naval
and Military ball.
Sir Day and Lady Bosanquet, who are
also members of the Governors’ Union, will
arrive this evening, and the best Doulton and
fine linen are being made ready to welcome
them. Per Omrah cometh Mrs. Herbert
Nicholls, whose husband is the youngest of
Hobart Judges. She will linger awhile with
Mrs. Elkington, and shed some of that light
upon local Sassiety which makes her such a
shining mark in Tasmania’s literary circle.
Concerning that Naval and Military ball,
there is trouble, trial and tribulation for the
secretaries, and, weeping, wailing and gnash-
ing of teeth for the Very Best, who were the
guests. The reason is that the secretaries
neglected to send invitations to the news-
papers. The papers, therefore, neglected to
go, and all the expensive frocks remained un-
lionored and unsung. And that was not all.
The popular Mayor and Mayoress, whose
cakes and tea Naval and Military femininity
has eaten so often, were similarly slighted.
Now the senior officers are bursting their
epaulets explaining, “the demned junior
oflicah of to-day can’t be trusted to do any-
thing.” Still, I do not think that is quite
fair, because the ladies of “The Whip” _Co.
trusted that they would get their invita-
tions, and I didn’t hear that they were disap-
pointed.
On Wednesday one Norman Lethem, a son
of C.B. of that ilk, and a surveyor of note,
induced Miss Evelyn Martin to share his
worldy goods, including a silver tea and
coffee set and entree dishes, presented by
his staff on the Warwick-Mary Vale railway
line, where he is resident engineer. The bride
was a dainty centre-piece in ninon and
satin, and her maids were only a trifle less
fascinating in cr&me net and pink rose ha_ts.
The bridegroom is a nephew of Chief Justice
Griffith.
Dolores arrives to-morrow evening, and
her many friends are getting ready to say
the usual welcome with an unusual amount
of meaning. A garden party in her honor
also is threatened.
Your tennis veterans, Parker and Ilice,
have won every rubber at Charters Towers,
in spite of the fact that they were playing
on ant-bed courts. Next week they will
play here (d.v.), with a fine background of
other exponents of the superior ping-pong
art fi'om N. S. Wales.
A steady stream of country visitors con-
tinues to flow into Brisbane, and it requires
the talent of a Sherlock Holmes, these days
before the weary wanderer can find some
place to lay his head, to say nothing of the
family’s Even “Our Miss Gibbs,” whose
advent has been so eagerly looked for did a
house-to-house canvass before she could eet
rooms in which to dwell for the first week
of her stay.
On the 24th of this month dainty Evelvn
Thorn marries Clive Statham, who superin-
tends a collection plate somewhere lh the
Sydney side. Evelyn belongs to the pioneer
family of Thorns, whqse great-grandfather
came to Australia with the first batch of sol-
diers and other early troublesome importa-
tions from Bull Land.
Rumor says that Mrs. Joey Bell will leave
shortly for England, and that daughters Enid
and Ella Sydney Jones go with her. Melba
while visiting Australia recently, opined that'
if London had the chance, it would
make itself very agreeable to these two young
people. Enid Sydney Jones is seen every-
where with the Macgregoj clan. The sisters
will be among the hostesses of the vounger
set during Show week.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
“lUM” : The best bloomer I’ve beard in
the mulga came the other day from an
ancient who holds a grazing farm outside
Emerald (Q.). The ancient had been to a
township where a new general agent had
hung out a shingle. When he got back thev
asked him who the new bloke was. “Oil,
him! He’s one of them repentance men.
Got into a row in England, and he had to
quit, and his ole man sends him 10 quid a
quarter.”
How a Queenslander roughed it in South
Africa:—
The train steward came bustling along the cor-
ridors. “Luncheon is served, gentlemen.” We made
our way to the dining-car, passing from coach to
coach on pivoted gangways, protected at the sides
by a netting arrangement. Soups, hot and cold
meats, sweets, fruit, sound Cape wines (extra at 9d.
a bottle), snowy cloths, flowers on the tables, and
the brown veldt rolling past. Then coffee and cig-
arettes. “Two and sixpence, please, and thank
you.” There is nothing like seeing how these ignor-
ant, boorish Dutchmen mess things up to make an
Australian proud of the way things are run in his
own country. Being modest, however, I didn’t
mention it.


A Drinß, a Tonic,
a Digestive Combined.
A
X
6
S'
U
Without Alcohol or Gas.
A wineglass of O.T. neat, sipped after meals is of ex-
cellent service in restoring the healthy functions of the
digestive system.
c A
<n
mu*
OKTROU
golP
Specially approved
and recommended
as a pure product
by the British
Analytical Control.
A body formed to protect the
food supplies of the public of
the United Kingdom.
O.T. is quite unlike any other beverage—
It stands alone. It has a delightful flavor
of its own, and has as well that satisfying
“ bite ” which Is one of the most attractive
qualities of Spirits.
Compared with other non-alcoholic drinks
O.T. is well endowed with qualities which
they lack-CHARACTER, DISTINCTION
and BENEFICIAL EFFECTS.
tu* 1 *
"Kcir
0
oASM
WHISKY
©RANDY
WlNt OR
uit
ft* BEER *>>
makes a
WATIR ft
DELICIOUS
LtHON*»]
DRINK -V
alsotmi
V n
BEST
» COwD
Wuy
LIQUEUR
fe'
«TIM MEALS
•SI«r«
J-DIXON&O
|QH 5T p^hmhv, Ct ;
3
** G/?5*7 C(/«£
INDIGESTION
GOLD MEDAL and
DIPLOMA,
Paris Exhibition
Internationale ?
1909 .
O.T. meets the requirements of those
adverse to taking Spirits, and of those
often called on to take a “Social Glass”
who wish to avoid the effects of too much
Alcoholics or too much gassy drink. It
appeals to all ages, conditions and classes
of men, women and children in all seasons,
in all climates, in all countries.
SEE THAT YOU GET THIS BOTTLE.
CONSIDER THE BENEFITS YOU
OBTAIN FROM O.T.
O.T
is derived from Fruits and Herbs, recognised for their nutritive
and beneficial properties, and having essentials favorable for the
blending of ’a delicious, healthful drink. Agreeable to the palate
and distinguished for its favorable effects on the constitution, O.T. is an everyday
beverage that can be taken at all times with happy results —it is always a safe and
desirable form of refreshment for use at Home, at the Club, at the Bar.
Having ,the same warming, exhilarating and cheering effects as spirituous
liquors, but being without any intoxicating quality, O.T. is the happy medium
between a soft and a hard drink, and the nearest approach to a substitute for
alcohol that has ever been produced. Full-bodied, new, and distinctive in charac-
ter, charming in flavor, not too sweet, not gassy, its taste grows on you, and after
the first bottle you just begin to fully appreciate its deliciousness.
Added to water (hot or cold), Lemonade, Ginger Ale or Soda Water,
O.T. improves the flavor and forms a blend more grateful and more power-
ful in allaying thirst. A dash of O.T. improves the flavor of Whisky,
Schnapps, Gin or Wine in a remarkable manner, lessens their intoxicating
effect, and leaves its own sweet aroma on the breath.
In Country districts, where the cost of Aerated Waters is too expensive, O.T.
and water (hot or cold) will be appreciated both for its deliciousness and economi-
cal cost. *
In all seasons O.T. has excellent qualities to recommend it, but for the Winter
BEWARE OF FRAUDULENT PASSING OFF.
Refuse inferior drinks put up by unscrupulous manufacturers in
their endeavor to imitate 0.T., as these imitations do not contain the
same ingredients and have not the virtues and merits of O.T.
Insist on Getting the Genuine.
Traders who pass off other drinks as O.T. will be proceeded
against under the Commonwealth Trade Marks Act.
If unable to get Genuine O. T. in your locality
please send us the name of your trader.
it is specially suitable, as it is the only non-alcoholic drink capable of promoting
warmth. Its stimulating effect on a cold day improves the circulation and pro-
motes the warmth in the body necessary to ward off Golds and Chills. Taken ip
time, it will counteract the effects of a Chill and drive out a Cold that may be
coming on you. It is invaluable to athletes, outdoor workers, and to those working,
travelling or driving at night.
O.T. has excellent properties as a stomachic, and is of the greatest service in
promoting appetite, helping digestion and assimilation, and enabling you to obtain
the greatest benefit from the fpod you eat. Drink in some form is indispensable to
the solution and digestion of food, and, because of its beneficial influence, O.T. is
without doubt one of the best Meal-time drinks. No beverage sits so agreeably on
the stomach, so refreshes |he system, or forms a more grateful repast. As a liqueur
after meals O.T. is more efficacious and has more value as a digestive than many
so-called liqueurs, and, not containing alcohol, its use is specially recommended to
ladies.
O.T. has a soothing and tonic effect, and if you wake up unrefreshed
in the morning, with a furred tongue and a bad taste in the mouth, a glass
of O.T. will clear the digestion, correct the liyer, and make you fit and
well again. If you suffer from Indigestion arising from erorrs in diet,
Fulness after meals, Flatulency or Colic, you have an excellent remedy
in O.T. On a winter night, to promote a healthy glow and ensure a good
night’s rest, a glass of O.T. hot is the best of nightcaps.
O.T. is now sold in the following Countries : —-
Australia, New Guinea and Pacific Islands, Dutch East Indies, Straits Settlements,
Ceylon, India, China, Japan, Manila,' South Africa, West and East Africa, Eng-
land, Ireland, Scotland, Norway, Sweden, Denmark, Holland, Newfoundland,
Canada, West Indies.
BUY A BOTTLE AND TRY IT.
As with everything else, the practical test
of O.T. is the one to go by. You can obtain a
bottle at your grocer’s at a small cost, and if
you put it to the test you will find O.T. will
prove to be the most delicious and most bene=
ficial drink you have ever known.
SOLE MAKERS of 0.T.—0.T. LIMITED, Sydney, Melbourne and London.
Branches and Depots throughout the World.


WINCHESTER
•.vX .
m- -. i '7 w m
tt
'"•V;
•sap
%
$■•;:
\p; :&&&-
V •.';’.*•';;• ;;A:v;^^v/:V;V; r
<• ;irw
jprs ~ v.jM^*TA
5 %«?•.. .:>;3*SHSBbB&SS
M
a***
A
;-v.'v?>v. t;*./
5 • f //%«
vr; ;
:#k
WW: U v/;.v,- t 3&>: % v .-;'v\ * *\-'x‘
*’/••>-r*.£< | .i*ioVV-VV^’.*)-vv*V.• • *?. *..’*• * V
.*.•.'r•*•'«r\ v s’~:.. '• .vxv: :*••?.•/*. ' : • ••:
Shotgun Cartridge
"NEW RIVAL”
Made in America by Experts.
The effectiveness of your gun is enhanced by using good
cartridges in it. If you have not used “New Rival” car-
tridges, do so next time you go shooting and you will then
understand why they are sold in such large quantities.
• These cartridges are made in America, where there is more
shooting done with the shotgun than in any other country.
They cost more than other makes, because they are worth
more; and they are worth much more to you than the
slight difference in price. Every shot counts when “New
Rival” cartridges are used, and you realize your full skill.
SOLD BY DEALERS EVERYWHERE
m
“i
t=
L
s
Alcock
Tables
exeel,
Consult any competent judge of billiard tables, and lie’ll
promptly tell you that there are no tables equal to “ Alcock's.”
Many of the leading billiard matches have been played on
these tables—the Melbourne match between George Gray
and Fred Lindrum, jun., when Gray scored 830, 831 coming
off the red, is another proof of the marvellous accuracy and
perfect construction of our billiard tables.
Each table is fitted with Imperial Low Cushions, and
bears our trade mark.
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.
ALCOCK & CO. Pty. Ltd.
Billiard Table Manufadurers,
397 George St., Sydney. 114 Edward St., Brisbane. Baker Buildings,
Featherstone St., Wellington. 155 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
7 King, William St., Adelaide. Murray St., Perth. [5
77
h
v
I ■—^
<?
£/
1
The
Good
Samaritan
JUST
IN
-TIME
HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE
The Grandest Remedy for
COUGHS ana COLDS
A dose or two is generally sufficient
KEEP A BOTTLE IN THE HOUSE
SOLD by all CHEMISTS and STORES
%
Jt
AlUwool unshrinfta
able Socks. StocKings,
and Underwear.
There is no wear so healthy and hygienic as wool not
a mixture of wool and cotton —but all wool.
If the name y&ss is on the socks, stockings, and underwear
you buy you will know that you have all - Australasian - wool wear,
and more —that they are absolutely unshrinkable.
, Further, the process makes them as soft and com-
' fori able as silk. And <^222 * are made in England.
Stockings, Socks, and Underwear for Men. Ladies, and Children.
In all prices. Of Men’s Outfitters. Drapers, and Stores. If your
dealer does not stock ‘‘fazd&nl.’ he can obtain it from his wholesale house.
AaB
In case of difficulty write for “ Jason ” booklet and name of nearest
Agent to —
Jason Hosiery Co., Leicester, England.
3 Sets Bell-Metal Reeds.
LEATHER BOLND-BELLOWS.
Music, as you like it>,
becomes doubly beautiiul when played
on the
Melba
The Accordeon
with
The Silver Tone
The Best Accordeon. Sounds the Best.
Haunting melodies are never so sweet as when
they are played on this instrument. The
Church Organ-Like Tone is Just Perfect!
MELBA now charms many a home—one
would charm Yours —Why not NOW?
The Test Tells The Tale.
Trice 21/- post free.
Complete with instruction book.
ALLAN & CO. p ISBi±
Other Models—7/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/6, 27 6, 37 6.
Complete colored illustrated Catalogue t ree.
SOLE AGENTS
d., 276-8 Collins St., Melbourne. Bendigo and Geelong
S-'
<3-
UNDER VICE-REGAL
ħ
PATRONAGE.
The Misses Isaacs
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair-
workers & Dermatologists,
IGI KINC STREET, SYDNEY, between Elizabeth & Castlereaprh Streets.
Transformations from £4/4/- Tails from 7/6. Puffs from 25 - set. Fringes from 7/6.
Telephone 2138 Central. COMBINGS MADE UP.
Country orders reoeive prompt attention.
THE LONE HAND
A Monthly Guide for everything
Australian.
6d


COUGHS
Colds, Asthma, Bronchitis and "
Lung troubles quickly cured by
POWELL’S
BALSAM
OF
ANISEED
Of
AU Store*
%
tsM Chemists,
v *ade
Wholesale Agents for Victoria: DUERDEN &. SAINSBURY, Melbourne.
CARBIDE.
For First-Class
Results use
Best
W~“PERNIX” CARBIDE.
Addresses of Merchants distributing: it can be obtained
from AUGUST BLUMEINTHAL. LIMITED, 62
Pitt Street, Sydney, Sole Agents for Australia.
CORSET
Gives
STYLE
And
COMFORT
The Chalmers has been
recommended to me."
h
Day after day, both in Sydney and Melbourne, intending purchasers come to our showrooms to
see the Chalmers —men from the North of Queensland, men from Tasmania, men from all over
We take this condition to mean that the Chalmers car has not only now made a good reputa-
tion in our country, but also that the Chalmers Company has succeeded in building cars that
appeal to the careful buyers here.
Out of the 46 cars we have sold since Christmas, 35 of them were Chalmers cars; out of
these 35 purchasers, 12 were experienced motorists —men who had previously owned cars. Again,
there were four repeat orders from Chalmers owners.
From Sydney to Narromine, 300 miles, at an average of 33 miles per hour, and over 20 miles
to the gallon of fuel. From Warialda to Newcastle, 310 miles, in daylight. Seven thousand
miles in 10 weeks, and the front tyres still good. These records speak for themselves.
20-30 H.P. Touring Car
Both
Guaran-
teed
Two
Years.
35-40 H.P. Torpedo
equipped with Five Lamps,
Generator, 880 x 120
Tyres,
£490
with full equipment
and 920 x 120
tyres,
£790
ART CATALOGUES ARE FREE.
GET ONE.
ROY W. SANDFORD
Agent for Chalmers and Thomas Cars and Empire Runabouts,
105 EXHIBITION ST., MELBOURNE; 181 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY.
rz
//
, 1
/j
m
m
m
>■
%
Y
fl
aw ~* ■
I
EcCno rT a it y» u ca rk d r°eq^ rit,g Sd't° ,a than * ll
VJdh .farm tV ° rk ,„ as com Pare Aus«^ Ita tn earn
and other*Z?n<* ° nly the Farms °> AU Eng ine
VJZt&tr °' O ‘JS o eoSS w> »°« - p wif «*s,
* S?*«-
z»**c » ms so ** 9 °“ ,20 hp- En ,2S
'Fractions c terms s ° , |to li> feU , l» ck !L ra aions
Tear, «&£?*»££ isO - <** "
mo»«» ' Larslockaf f,o 7 P HC “
<" e „ a " PorwyffJ?,ed«cl‘° ns N<l aeraH‘ r ” ex ' d
Mncess,on
Don t aMi
Several
2nd hand
Steam Engines,
replaced by
“Buffalos ."
for sale at
Bargain Pi ices
ITn'crnalional Harvester Company of America
200 Roma St., Brisbane. 37 Broadway, Sydney. 545 Bourke St., Melbourne. 18-20 North Terrace, Adelaide. 75 York St., Launceston.
ROBT. NETILEFOLD, Hobart, General Agent for Southern Tasmania.
Local Agents throughout all important Agricultural Centres in the Commonwealth. (327)
ĥ
f DIURETIC
KIDM&MM
REMEDY
A COBRECTIVE
OF THE
URINARY
ORGANS
ħ
IT IS
ALSO A
SPLENDID
TO/NIC
Obr&mciti/e e/t Chf>m /sfs
ESSE
r* HEAP, Second-Hand 15BrakeH.P.
TANQYE GAS ENGINE,
IN GOOD ORDER.
Apply Manager, “ BULLETIN ” OFFICE,
214 George Street, Sydney.
In HEALTH or SICKNESS
Take regularly the ‘Allenburys’Diet. It is most easy of assimilation, increasing vitality
and diminishing fatigue. It restores the impaired digestion and gives tone to the whole
system. Prepared from pure, rich milk and whole wheat, combined in a partially
predigested form, the ‘Allenburys’ Diet is a complete food, and is valuable alike*for
the Invalid and Robust. Made in a Minute add boiling water only.
Allen & Hanburys
Ltd.
LONDON, ENGLAND, and
MARKET STREET, SYDNEY
mm
m
DIET


MELBOURNE,
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 30.
Central CITY PROPERTIES
I (carrying an Hotel License),
367-377 COLLINS STREET,
“THE OLD EXCHANGE ” and “CAPEL COURT.”
THESE MAGNIFICENT PROPERTIES have a
1 FRONTAGE to COLLINS STREET, the first of
63ft. lOlin., by a DEPTH OF 314 ft. lOjin. through
to Flinders Lane, with roadway along 205 ft. of the
depth, this giving perfect access and light. The ad-
joining property (Capel Court), occupied by Messrs.
Baillieu, Patterson and Co. Pty., Ltd., has a front-
age of 33ft. sJin. by DEPTH of 110 ft. sJin. to broad
area and roadway having access to two main streets.
On the Property are Erected:
TWO FINE BLOCKS OF BUILDINGS.
Situate in the midst of the financial and business
centre of the best street in the city, and the fact
that there is
AN HOTEL LICENSE
attached to the property makes the possibilities in
many ways very great.
PLANS and full particulars will shortly be avail-
able.
JOHN BUCHAN & CO.,
325 Collins Street. Melbourne;
YEO, CROSTHWAITE & CO.,
98 Queen Street, Melbourne,
Auct'cn.’ers in conjunction.
THE CAUSE OF TOOTH
DECAY IS “ACID
MOUTH.”
THE Acid is Lactic
Acid, present in
most mouths,
and caused by fer-
menting food par-
ticles. It gradually
eats through the
enamel of the
teeth.
;
O
u
As
A
As
©
A
As
PEBECO
TOOTH
PASTE
overcomes
Acid Mouth.
While Pebeco
cleans the teeth
and keeps them
white, it over*
comes soft, bleeding
gums and maintains
the mouth in a
healthy condi-
tion. It is a soft,
smooth paste,
pleasant to the
taste, and valuable
in overcoming un-
pleasant breath.
G. ARNOLD,
6 O’Connell St., Sydney
(Wholesale Only).
h
Turn
This
Button,
Pen
Fills
Itself.
A Self-Filling Fountain
Pen—that is Different.
Users of Fountain Pens
will find the
“MODERN”
AUTOMATIC
SELF-FILLING
Fountain Pen
especially desirable for com-
mercial or home use. You
simply twist the button at
the end, hold pen in ink,
untwist, and the pen fills
itself. There are no joints,
therefore avoiding any
danger of soiling the fingers
or clothing. Costs no more
than the ordinary fountain
pen. Made in both plain
and fancy holders, with a
variety of nibs.
Modern Pen Company,
Sole Selling Agent for
A. A. Waterman & Co.,
NEW YORK.
22 THAMES STREET,
NEW YORK, U.S.A.
Agent for Australia—The
Commonwealth Storage &
Supply Company, .
Melbourne, Australia.
We also manufacture a
complete line of lower end
joint and safety types.
Dealers will find our entire
line a profitabe one. Write
for trade prices. They will
interest you.
If it isn't an “ A.A.” It
isn’t a “ MODERN.”
•- * a
L&w Points
Inventors
Can I Obtain a Patent ?
’ The quickest wav to ascertain this,
WITHOUT EXPENSE, is to Write
to me describing your invention, enclosing a slnall sketch
where necessary. Nicety o{ drawing is not essential ;
all that is necessary at first is to give me YOUR IDEA.
I will at once inform you whether the idea is patent-
able, and,"if so,-give the necessary instructions for
further procedure.
Persons desirous of obtaining really reliable advice or
information regarding Patent matters are cordially in-
vited to consult me personally or by letter. In all cases
a careful consideration of their plans, an honest opinion,
and a prompt reply may be expected.
A. J. CALLINAN, Patent Attorney,
Citizens’ Buildings, Collins Street, Melbourne.
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS ,
Oak-Apple Gold-Mining Co. Ltd.
OaKs Rush, Kidston, North Queensland.
CAPITAL £31,250, in 125,000 Shares of ss. each.
Of which 25,000 are issued as fully paid up. These will be accepted by the Vendors, together with
£l2OO cash, in full pavment for the property. 100,000 are Contributing Shares, which are now otleied
to the Public at 3d. on application and 3d. allotment, calls not to exceed Id. per month.
DIRECTORS.
W. A. McLEOD, B.Sc., General Manager Brilliant Extended G.M., Ltd., Charters Towers.
J. V. SUTER, Esq., of J. V. Suter and Co., Hughenden.
J. BOTTON, Esq., Managing Director of Brownliill, Kirk and Co., Townsville.
G. T. H. GOUGH, Esq., Oaks Rush, Kidston.
GEO. E. BRAY, Esq., of Bray and Oakes, Assayers and Ore Buyers, Mareeba and Charters Towers.
BANKERS: Australian Bank of Commerce, Charters Towers.
SOLICITORS: Marsland and Marsland, Charters Towers.
SECRETARY: Geo. ,T. Niel, Mosman Street, Charters Towers.
The obiect of the Company is to purchase and amalgamate three well-tested claims adjoining Thomp-
son’s “Rip and Tear” property, which has already yielded 1104 oz. of gold from 495_ tons. These are of a
combined knr anr&a and rnmnrisp The Rone of Confer
main shaft),
moved bv°crushfngs* to* go 7 to 8 dwts. 'from wall to°wali, on which no work has been done, beyond pot-
liolino- on the surface, and one cross-put at a depth of 20ft. This lode the Company proposes to work
immediately. The success of the companies already established on the field, and the growing recognition
of its wealth, induce the promoters to place the proposition before the Public with every confidence. 1 ros-
pectuses, with forms of application for shares, may be obtained from Messrs. Turner and Brownliill, Syd-
ney, and all recognised Brokers on Charters Towers, in Brisbane, Townsville and elsewhere.
' Applications close for Queensland on August 20 ; other States, August 20.
THIS 1016 WATCH FOR 3/11.
Guaranteed.
(Posted 6d. extra >
Interstate 9d.)
TO induce you to smoke our Corn Cob Tobacco and King of Al r
Cigars we will sell this regular half-guinea watch, railway dial, fo
3s. lid on the following terms :
CIGARS: 4 fori/-; Sample Box of 10, 2/6 ; 50 for 9/6: Box of 100, 18/6.
All post free. Higher grade, 6d. each. 6 for 2/6 ; Box of 50, 17/6
post free.
TOBACCO : 2oz. Corn Cob, packet cut light or dark, iod ; Watch 3/II ;
postage 6d. Total 5/3. Interstate 2d. extra. 402. Corn Cob, plug,
light 'or dark, 1/4 ; the “ Corn Cob ” watch, 3/11 ; postage 6d. Total
5/9. Interstate 3d. extra. Per .lb. boxes, 6/-. 2oz. packets, 6/6.
Interstate 3d. extra. The Watch only, 10/6 post free.
CRAIG 8 AITKEN, 654 George St., Sydney.
Established
30 Years.
Operation Avoided by Using
Illllltl
“For 23 year* I suffered with an enlargement of the wrist. Three'medical men
pronounced it incurrable without an operation. A friend advised me to use SOLOMON
SOLUTION, which I did—only a tew jars—and it has perfectly cured me. It is the
best liuimeut I have ever used.”
(Signed) Jas. E. Chevei.e
Bungerang North.
Obtainable in 2/6 Jars from Chemists or Storekeepers, or post free for 3/- from
Q SOLOMON COX a SON, 439 Bourka St., Melbourne. Q
NEW
Queensland Railways.
Thousands of men will be working on
these shortly, and the wise ones will
wear our
Signal Brand
Boots
especially made for this work.
EACH PAIR GUARANTEED.
Take no other brand if you wish for
satisfactory Wear.
Demand them from your storekeeper.
MADE WITH UNION LABOR.
Have
Green
Soles.
OTRT
IHE
(REGIS
am
TERED)
Have
Green
Soles.
The Davey Halliday CL
BRISBANE, Q.,
SOLE MANUFACTURERS.
IHPROVED MOTOR FRAME.
NOTICE is hereby given, that the patentee of Aus-
tralian Patent No. 12,374, dated 2nd September,
1908, for “Improvements in or relating to road
vehicle suspension arrangements,” are prepared to
SATISFY any DEMANDS and all requirements of
the public respecting the said invention. Further
particulars and information obtainable from COLLI-
SON and CO., Patent Attorneys, 483 Collins Street,
Melbourne, and Eagle Chambers, King William
Street, Adelaide.
The Elite
Eaude Cologne
(rr-
a
%
m*m*r
Wj.+mm
:
?ls
• »•
.:jt>
FIDELITAS
55s
• >V ! i
fr.s- r
MrbMß}
sSS^WI;
1»o/ V»
y-
sat*
Triumph of
Modern Science
Obtainable from all leading establishments
BOOT POLISHES
O F RENOWN.
MELTONIAN
CREAM
Cannot be equalled
for' renovating
kinds of Glace Kid
Boots and Shoes.
Cannot be equalled
for' renovating %U
kinds of Glace Kid
Boots and Shoes.
ĥ
LUTETIAN
creamH
For all kind* of
Brown Leather
Boota Sc Shoo.
(Made in light and dark colour*).
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
.. -
Made by the Manufacturer* of the Celebrated
“ MELTONIAN ” BOOT POLISHES,
E. BROWN & SON. Ltd, LONDON. En«
The Body-Building
Power of
BOVRIL
The Standardised BEEF FOOD.
thus: If this repre-
sents the amount of
tovril taken
This outline dia-
gram represents
the actual
i BODY-BUILD-
ING POWER
Tuis diagram illustrates the
actual body-buil ding power of
Bovril, proved by recent
independent physiological
experiments to be
10 to 20 times
the amount taken.
Bovril, Ltd., hold the Royal Warrant of
Appointment to His Majesty King George V.,
an A ppointment also held for many years
from the late King Edward VU.
ħ
During the Progress of our GREAT REMOVAI
SALE we are offering the following
Usual Price. Sale Price
Double - Barrelled, Breech - loading’
Guns, engine-turned rib. left bar-
rel full choke, right modified, re-
bounding locks and pistol grip.
Trial .. .. £5
Single-Barrel Duck 6mi«, large bore,
to kill at lOO.yds. Trial
Single-Barrel, Hammerless, Breech-
loading Guns,choke bore, excellent
stock. Trial
Double - Barrelled, Breech - loading
Guns with Greener patent wedge
fast cross bolt, choke bore, walnut
stock, pistol grip, patent cartridge
ejector. Trial..
Special Pigeon Guns, with patent
side clips, file cut rib, top lever,
choke bore, specially selected wal-
nut stock, Greener patent wedge
fast cross bolt. Trial .. .. 10 0
Mauser Principle Rifles, 22 calibre,
kill at 300yds. Trial
6 £3 12 6
S 5 0 5 10 0
3 10 0 1 17 6
5 10 0 4 17 6
0
15 0
7 10 (l
13 6
Guns by All Makers in Stock.
Write for Special Sale Catalogue.
ALL ORDERS FOR GUNS AND RIFLES DE-
LIVERED CARRIAGE PAID TO ANY ADDRESS
IN AUS TRA LA SI A.
Small Arms Co.
Gunsmiths & Importers.
242-244- Bourke Street, MELBOURNE
JUST out,
Price. 12/6 Posted. 131-
h
By P. R. GORDON.
Late Chief Inspector of Stock ana Brands, Queensland
Containing the latest Stock Route Maps of New Soutt
Wales and Queensland, the new Queensland Waps
containing Stock Routes, Tanks and Dams, Mam Roads,
Border Crossing Places, Bores, Trucking Yards, etc.
WATSON, FERGUSON & Co. Ltd. BRISBANI
FOR
RHEUMATISM
m
itl
tii
Packets, 3d., 6d. and Is.
[2a


\vw\vvww
««
tnmum
CUSTARD
gJamiCreamy
S3»®SHI gt EGC-liKe
"ISS
The World’s Daily Delicacy
-—From 1837 to 1911
Bird's
Custard
Crowns every meal with enjoyment
Children l-evel in it; you co
right to indulge their liking for
this creamy wholesome dainty,
with its rich stoieof nutriment.
■*" Insist on BIRD’S Custard.
No substitute can be so pure or
so wholesome.
dL
7i
&
This
lady
knows
howto
make
-
her
friends
welcome.
She gives
them a
cup of
| VAN
HOUTEN'S
COCOA
It never fails to please.
PURE, SOLUBLE AND CHEAP,
BECAUSE A LITTLE
GOES A LONG WAY
Ask your grocer for a
gratis Van Houten Novelty.
ssa> Well, of course
Anything worth doing is
worth doing well —so for
the antiseptic cleansing your
teeth need every day, use
CALVERT’S
Carbolic Tooth Powder
Local Chemists and Stores sell it.
F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester, Eng,
PHOSEERjNE
The Remedy of Kings
A further mark of Royal Appreciation has again distinguished
' Phosferine by the bestowal of a
ROYAL WARRANT TO SUPPLY PHOSFERINE TO
H.M. THE KING OF SPAIN
This world-renowned restorative medicine has
already for many years been supplied by
ROYAL COMMANDS
To the Royal Family
H.I.M. the Empress of Russia
H.M. the King of Greece
H.M. the Queen of Roumania
H.I.M. the Dowager Empress of Russia
The Imperial Family of China
H.R.H. the Grand Duchess of Hesse
H.I.H. the Grand Duchess Olga of Russia
And the Principal Royalty and Aristocracy throughout the World
m
mm
m
Mr. Grahame White
British School of A viation,
Hendon, writes:
“In preventing and over-
coming the iU-eftects of
exposure and relieving
nerve strain, I have found
Phosferine most effective
for bracing and toning the
svstem."
Mr. Henry Far in an
The Famous Aeroplanist,
writes:
“ Phosferine imparts and
stimulates a mental alert-
ness and physical energy
which has contributed im-
mensely to the success of
my serial flights."
M. Louis Bleriot
The First Man to Fly across the English Channel,
Baraques to Dover, July 25, 1909, writes:
"I can with confidence recommend Phosferine as a
bracing nerve tonic and a restorative for loss of vitality."
The Greatest of all Tonics
A PROYEN REMEDY FOR
Debility
Influenza
Indigestion
Sleeplessness
Exhaustion
Neuralgia
Maternity Weakness
Premature Decay
Mental Exhaustion
Loss of Appetite
Lassitude
Neuritis
Faintness
Brain-Fag
Anaemia
Backache
Rheumatism
Headache
Hysteria
Sciatica
and disorders consequent upon a reduced state of the nervous system.
PUBLIC CAUTION
!,, x
Purchasers of Phosferine (spelled Phosferine) should insist upon
being supplied with the genuine preparation, as supplied to the
King of Spain and nearly all the Royal Families of Europe.
The fact that Phosferine is The Royal Tonic assures customers
that it is highly commended by the greatest living physicians.
When asking for PHOSFERINE see that the article you get is
the genuine and spelt
PHOSEERINE
Refuse any preparation of a similar sounding name which
may be offered from interested motives. The original and
only genuine PHOSFERINE is prepared by
ASHTON & "PARSONS, LTD., LONDON.
The 2/6 size contains nearly four times the 1/- size.
33
'C?
r*
Prizes Value
IN THE
£3OOO
8-HOUR
ART UNION
and SPORTS
(Under sanction of the Attorney-General). Drawn October 28,1911.
Ist Prize, value £650. 2nd Prize, value £350.
3rd Prize, value £2OO. And 347 other Valuable Prizes.
The First Prize last year was won by Mrs. D. Owen, Bnlli, N.S.W.,
for the modest outlay of ONE SHILLING.
GET A TICKET AND HAVE A CHANCE FOR 1911.
Results of Drawing will be advertised in this paper on November 2.
To any person forwarding- stamped addressed envelope, a list of
the results will be posted. Tickets may be had from Agents in all
towns, or direct from
JOHN W. DOYLE, Secretary, Trades-Hall, Sydney.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original ant! Only Genuine
Convincing
■ Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS. .
Prices in
England—
t/li, 2/9 & 4/6
V 1
Checks and
arrests Fever,
Croup, Ague.
The Best
Remedy
known for
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS.
Acts like a charm in
DIARRH^EA 9 and is the only
specific in CHOLERA and DYSENTERY.
[RHEUMATISM'
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY.
GOUT. RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA, LUMBAGO,
MEURALGIA.
Blair’
GOUT AND
RHEUMATIC
They Never Fail.
They Always Cure.
Pills
The only true and safe remedy for Gout and
Rheumatism that has stood the test of time
All Chemists and Stores at i/i J & 2/9 per box
Proprietors. PROUT & Co., 229. Strand.
London. England
m
ARE YOU
DEAF?
If you are deaf, or going deaf, you will
be glad to hear of a simple and scientific de-
vice which will restore your hearing, no mat-
ter how old you are. There is no mystery
or secrecy about it; we describe it fully and
explain just how it acts.
You use spectacles as sight magnifiers, and
in the same way you may use this sound
magnifier as an aid to weak hearing. But,
unlike spectacles, the Wilson Common-sense
Ear-Drums are invisible and c.omfortable.
You can’t tell you are wearing them. No
one else can, either, because they are not
seen.
They rest the ear nerves by taking the
strain off them —the strain of trying to hear
dim sounds. What a blessed relief to have
done with that tiring strain!
Being made of the purest and softest Para
rubber, they cannot be felt, even when the
head rests on a pillow. For the same reason,
a blow on the side of the head will not hurt
the ear. In fact, they protect the ear, the
tender inner parts that are so sensitive, from
cold winds, dust, sudden and piercing sounds.
So that you may clearly understand why
these facts are true, and why the Sound Mag-
nifier restores the hearing, we give an illus-
tration of one as it lies in the ear. You will
notice . that the Sound Magnifier is shaped
like a trumpet, and so conveys even the
faintest sounds right to the natural ear-
drum. Being of the softest rubber, it cannot
ĥ
ħ
h
ĥ
hurt the ear. It fits the orifice of the ear
with precision and comfort. The division
that runs across the mouth is to allow the re-
moval and insertion of the Ear-Drum, and to
brace it.
The shape of the Wilson Ear-Drum has
been chosen after years of experience as the
best adapted to carry the faintest sound right
down to the natural ear-drum.
To persons '\yho are nearly deaf, it is not
only trying to have people shout at them,
but it hurts the ear-drum. When age comes
the ear-drum sometimes gets thickened, or
loses its tightness, and shouting does not act
properly on it. It only makes a confused
and tiring noise. But the ' Sound Magnifiers
concentrate the sound in the best spot for
perfect hearing.
Of course, if you have lost the hearing-
nerve completely, or were born deaf, we can-
not pretend to cure you. Only a miracle
could do that, in spite of some of the absurd
claims made to-day. But if you can hear the
faintest sound, do not despair. You will
never regret trying the Wilson Ear-Drums.
We have letters to show you from deaf people
in Australia and New Zealand who have been
cured, and you can be cured, too. You may
wear the Ear-Drums day and night, and take
them out whenever you wish. Children can
wear them (we have special sizes for children
from six to twelve). Even a child can insert
and remove them without the least danger.
The price is £1 (the fee for a doctor’s
single yisit). This includes a pair of Drums
(they are only sold in pairs), a fine nickel
remover and also an inserter. After the first
pair is bought you may purchase a single
drum at any time for Bs., but the pair you
get at first will last quite two years. Do not
ask for a trial pair. We do not send them
out on trial, and so they are never second-
hand. Use the Order Form below, and the
Outfit will be sent to you at once, with the
fullest instructions. Don’t delay, but have
the comfort of good hearing as soon as you
can.
ORDER FORM.
STAR NOVELTY CO.,
103 Premier Buildings,
229 Collins Street, Melbourne (Vic.).
Please send me an Outfit containing a pair
of Wilson Common-sense Ear-Drums, an In-
serter and a Remover, for which I enclose
One Pound.
Name
Address
NOTE. —Send by Money Order or Postal
Note. If a Bank Note or Sovereign is sent,
you must register it.


“SURE CATCH” is Undoubtedly THE Fishing Tackle to Use
“ SURE CATCH ” is the Tackle of DISTINCTION, QUALITY and RENOWN. It has stood the Test for Years, thus Proving its ABSOLUTE RELIABILITY.
It is used by the Most Prominent Anglers of the day, and CANNOT BE EXCELLED.
“ big fish** tackle specialities.
RODS.
Extra Quality Split Cane Rods, 2 joints, 2 tops, steel centre, double-
handed cork srrip, strong porcelain rod and end rings, best bronzed
suction ferrules, double brazed, highly finished. Excellent value. A
perfect “ Big Fish ” Rod. 7J feet, 57/6 each ; 8£ feet, 62/6 each.
Rod A —Very Superior “Big Fish” Rod, made of mottled cane, 3
joints, 2 greenheart tops, one top spliced with whalebone and fitted
with pulley end ring, double swelled grip, hardened snake rings,
solid winch fittings, extra strong ferrules, double brazed and rubber
button. This rod has been made to our own special instructions.
9 feet, 35/- each ; 10 feet, 37/6 each.
Rod B—The “ Queensland ” Rod, 9J feet, 4 joints, 2 tops, made of
best seasoned greenheart, lock joints, double brazed, porcelain
bridge and end rings, hardened snake rings, and rubber button,
30/- each.
For EXCELLENCE and STERLING WORTH “ SURE CATCH ” Fishing
Tackle is ABSOLUTELY UNRIVALLED, as IS TESTIFIED by the EVER
INCREASING CROWD of SATISFIED and APPRECIATIVE ANGLERS
from near and far.
REELS.
No. 3C— Nottingham Wood Reels, aluminium lining and flange,
solid brass star back, movable check, very strong line guard. A
perfect reel for “Big Fish.” 5 Inch, 22/6 ; 6 Inch, 27/6 ;6J Inch,
30/- each.
REELS (continued).
No. s—The New “Lockfast” Tension Big Fish Reels, aluminium
lining and flange, solid brass star back, optional check brass
handle plates. A splendid reel. 4 inch, 18/6; 5 inch, 20/-;
6 inch, 25/- each. . , . . , .
No. 16—Finest Quality Metal “ Big Fish ” Keels nickel-plated
rims and bars, mutiplying action, leather thumb brake for checking'
speed, steel pivots, optional check, interleaved with aluminium,
which greatly strengthens the reel and reduces the weight,
31 inch, 35/- ; 4 inch, 45/-
The MORE CRITICAL the ANGLER, the MORE EMPHATIC is HIS
APPRECIATION of “SURE CATCH” FISHING TACKLE. THE
TACKLE that CANNOT BE SURPASSED.
SPINNING BAITS.
M.S. Perfect Spinners, a splendid spinner for all game fish. Sizes—
-31 inch, 3/3 each ; 4 inch, 3/9 each.
No. 23—M.S. Paragon Spinners, made specially to our own order,
and can be had in the following sizes : 3 inch, 2/6; 31 inch, 3/-;
4 inch, 3/6; 5 inch, 4/6 each. - . . . . , .
No. 3—Extra tieavy Spoon Baits, scaled back, red inside, mounted
with extra strong swivels, split rings, and treble hooks. An excel-
lent bait. 3 inch, 2/- ; 31 inch, 3/; 4 inch, 3/6 each.
No. 4—Best Quality Ring-mounted Devon Baits, xx heavy and
very strong ; specially made for Big Fish.
3 inch, 2/9 ; 31 inch, 3/3 ; 4 inch, 3/9 each.
We hold the foremost reputation for all Angling Requisites.
Give us a Trial and be Convinced.
wire: traces.
“Tiger” Traces, made from hand-twisted, flexible steel wire. A Trace
of enormous strength. Size X, 1/9 each; Size Y, 2/3 each.
No. I—Steel1 —Steel Wire Traces, li yards long, 9d. each.
No. 2—“ Hercules ” Big Fish Wire Oimp Traces, extra special
quality, 1 yard, 9d. ; 1J yards long, 1/3 each.
LINES.
The “ Zenith ” Plaited Flax Lines, made from best quality material,
and are splendid lines for all “Big Fish.” To be had in lengths of
100 and 200 yards. No. 3, 6/6 ; No. 2, 6/9 ; No. 1, 7/-.
No. I/O, 7/6 ; No. 2/o, 8/- per 100 yards.
■ CUT THIS OUT.
FILL IN THIS COUPON with your name and address, and
we will forward you by RETURN OF POST a copy of our
AUSTRALASIAN FISHING TACKLE CATALOGUE, the
BEST AND LARGEST TACKLE LIST EVER PUBLISHED.
The talk of the Angling world. Full of useful information.
Name
Address
Bullktin, May 4.
MICK SIMMONS LTD.,
The Largest and Most Progressive Fishing Tackle House.”
Head Depot—
Haymarket, Sydney, N.S.W.
Schute, Bell & Go.
limited
Wool Stores: Central Wharf. Produce Stores:
Quay. Offices :44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Do not sell Fat Stock,
but only Wool, Sheepskins,
Hides, Tallow, etc., and
Marsupial & Rabbit Skins.
Each head of the Company a worker
in the interests of their constituents.
Proceeds protected Trust Account
Bank 6f N.S.W.
ENO S ‘FRUIT SALT’
A HOUSEHOLD REMEDY FOR
All Functional Derangements of the Liver, Tempo-
rary Congestion arising from Alcoholic Beverages,
Errors in Diet (Eating or Drinking), Biliousness,
Sick Headache, Giddiness, Vomiting, Heartburn,
Sourness of the Stomach, or Constipation. It is
a Refreshing and Invigorating Beverage, most
Invaluable to Travellers, Emigrants, Sailors, and
Residents in Tropical Climates.
Eno’S ‘FRUIT Salt’ assists the Functions of the Liver, Bowels, Skin, and Kidneys
by Natural Means. There is no doubt that, where it has been taken in the earliest
stages of a disease, it has, in innumerable instances, prevented a serious illness.
CAUTlON.— Examine the Capsule and see that It is marked ENO’S 'FRUIT SALT,’
otherwise you have the sincerest form of fIattery—IMITATION.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd., ‘FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, London,
5.8., Eng., by J. C. ENO’S Patent.
Sold by Chemists and Stores everywhere.
POT POURRI
Note that
is the Highest Product of the
Tobacco Blenders’ Art. ob m °ail BY
“ POT POURRI ” Cigarettes. —The highest grade obtainable, at 6d. per packet of io ;
4/6 per ioo.
“ POT POURRI ” Cigars.— A fragrant smoke— 3d. each ; 5 for 1/- ; 18/6 per ioo.
“ POT POURRI ” Tobacco.— 4oz. tins, 2/= ; Boz. tins, 4/- ; 8/= per lb. There is none
better than this—it is the BEST.
“POT POURRI” Pipes, Silver-mounted, superior quality, all shapes, 2/6 each.
“POT POURRI” always the same, always enjoyable.
Clients in country or other States ORDER NOW, and it will be
posted FREE by return, with Catalogue which will interest you.
A. A. MARK S, Sole Agent, 376 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Gold Aedal Paris 1900 « Grand Prize St. Louis 1904
xilodermbi
IB PREPARATIONS
P.QDOLFF a SOHtl. Knilsnihe and London
Kaloderma Jelly
prepared with glycerine Si honey without
oil or fat, does not grease; Is most
agreeable * efficacious for preventing and allaying irritation.
Kalodermo Soap
prepared with glycerine and honey, a
most refined and delicately perfumed
Toiletsoap,the leading soap for softening fit improving the skin.
Kaloderma Rice Powder
Kaloflerma Slw«ins Soap
most popular and refined
toiletpowder. Jcf
prepared with the renowned
Kaloderma Jelly undispu-
tedly the most emollient shaving soap on the market,
fl refined luxury at a popular price, jc/"
Obtainable from all the leading establishments.
n
Is the most perfect Preservative for the Skin
and Complexion. Invaluable for the SKIN
in HOT or COLD Climates, removing all
ROUGHNESS, IRRITATION and TAN
COOLING AND REFRESHING TO THE SKIN, KEEPING IT SOFT
AS VELVET ALL THE YEAR ROUND. VERY SOOTHING IF
APPLIED AFTER SHAVING
M. BEETHAM & SON, CHELTENHAM, ENGLAND
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1908 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 6d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
op Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth, 1/6.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Quadrille Call Book,
2s. Adventures of a Flirt, Is. 3d. Parlor Tricks
and Games, Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
Is 2d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is 2d post.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ss. Not Guilty (Blateh-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God ’and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain for the
British, 6d. How to Read' Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. Theory of Value, Is 6d. French!Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Thought, 1/3.
How to MakeSwests, Jams and Syrups, ls)2d. New
Trices with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, is-2d Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, ls6d.
ħ
HOME cyclopedia
RMBRACINO
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Natute as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
m- BOOKSELLER TO THE
COMMONWEALTH. -W
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Plano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
* Speaking Made EAsy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor • Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d.
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougall Topped the Score, &
Other Verses, Is 3d. The Gay Count, Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, os.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Lee’s Priceless
Recipes, 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. CHSF Established Q 5 1 eaTs.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot—
-3 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT.
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere tor the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OB
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage,
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genmn,
is. Old Busii Songs, Is 3d post. Dr. Milford s M
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, J
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made hAST,
Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions of the Km
Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. 6d.
History Court of England, Is 3d post, lovkk-
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, is
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocwi
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, hi ™ p
Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevassk a ADvrcs to
Wife, 3s (id posted. Wonderful Budget bo.
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. • ■
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each P
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers an»-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wipes
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy, Is P „
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness a
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Websteirs Lar ■
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 lllus., t 4
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is \ jo. ■
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore s U *
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 P®*® ’
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason , v -
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-1M


rSOLDIER & ARCTIC EXPLORER*
Tortured by 17 Years* Indigestion.
V
W ~v^
/•\
if
fifcjj/
res
X
I\V
“ Bile Beans put New Life and Energy into Me,”
says Capt. Siddons, aged 80.
SOLDIER, Arctic Explorer, and Master Mariner
—the life of that fine, rugged-faced, healthy-
looking octogenarian, Mr. James Siddons,
has indeed been an eventful one. He
secured his Master Navigator’s Certificate
early in life ; served for three years in the
war at Crimea, and also served throughout the
Maori war ; and made two trips to the Arctic regions
with Captain Penny on board the “ Lady Franklin.”
The rough nature of his callings was the cause of his
contracting a bad form of Indigestion, to which he
was a martyr for 17 long years, and he gives a
graphic description of his sufferings, his vain en-
deavors to obtain relief from doctors, specialists and
many so-called remedies, and his remarkable rest-
oration to health by Bile Beans, for the benefit of
fellow-sufferers, as follows :
“ Veterans’ Home, Mount Rosklll, Auckland,
‘‘the Bile Bean Mnfg-. Co., Sydney.
“ Dear Sirs, —For seventeen long years I was a great
sufferer from Indigestion, brought on by hardship during
many years of seafaring life. At times I ivas completely
prostrated with dizziness, pains in the side and back, attacks of
retching, sick headache and other distressing symptoms, and
was often utterly incapacitated for work. I tried many so-
oalled remedies in the hope of ridding myself of the Indiges-
tion, but my efforts were in vain. I sought the advice of doctors, chemists
and other medical men, but their treatment, too, proved utterly futile, and I
continued suffering.
“The wonderful curative properties of Bile Beans were brought to my
notice by a friend in Gisborne, who strongly advised me to give them a trial.
And a sound recommendation it proved. I at once procured a box of the
Beans, and started on them. Even from the first few doses I began to feel their
beneficial virtues : the pains in my back and side disappeared ; my appetite,
which previously was so poor, began to return, vomiting became a thing of
the past, my head no longer ached as though it were under a heavy weight,
and my eyes became clearer and brighter. I continued taking Bile Beans—
gave them a fair trial and underwent a thorough course—and was soon cured
of the Indigestion, after having been a martyr for 17 long years. In fact, I
honestly believe that Bile Beans were the means of saving my life. I served
for three years in the Crimean war, and am well on in years now, having
passed my 79th birthday, but still very active for my age, and I attribute my
health and activity to Bile Beans. If at any time I feel run down, a Bile Bean
puts new life and energy into me. I cannot speak too highly of this great
family medicine, and urge all sufferers to give them a trial.
“ Yours faithfully (Signed), JAMES SIDDONS, Master Mariner.”
| THE STANDARD FAMILY MEDICINE.
Bile Beans are a proved remedy for Biliousness, Indigestion, Headache, Con-
stipation, Piles, Loss of Appetite, Bad Blood, Retching, Nausea, Water-
brash, and all ailments that owe their origin to disordered condition of the
Stomach, Liver or Digestive Organs. Obtainable from all chemists and stores.
m
and
2|9
per box
He
ea/is
Beauty’s Favourite.
The article wbicb excels all others
in improving' the beauty of tbe skin
is naturally and deservedly beauty's
favourite. Tbis bas been tbe
acknowledged and honoured
position beld by Pears' Soap for
nearly 120 years. It won, and bas
maintained tbat position by virtue
of its complete purity, and by tbe
possession of tbose special emollient
properties wbicb soften, refine,
and impart natural colour to tbe
skin. No otber soap possesses
tbese qualities in sucb a pre-
eminent degree as
PEARS
Matchless for the Complexion.
“They May Laugh at Old
Romances.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
lAM weary of the Market, all its
methods and its lies;
h lerce my heart is filled with hunger
„ ~ * or tae sun-emblazoned skies,
lor the starlit waters sleeping, for the wide,
triumphant wind —
But, my love, I dare not leave you, lest I
leave my heart behind,
iou have snared me with your glory,
As the Helen of old story,
For whom Heroes in their glamor fought
through seven long years and pined.
Like to Paris, I would reive you, though I
P-tagged my soul in war,
lor the Man that burns within me, for the
Woman that you are;
As they robbed the Sabine women in the
days of long ago,
As they bore the Lowland women —laid
across the saddle-bow.
All the devil and the daring
Of my rebel blood, uncaring,
Bids me lift you in the stirrups, turn 11s
forestward and go!
In the days when “Jolly Roger” floated
grimly from the peak ;
In the days when Kidd went sailing out of
sultry Mozambique;
In the days when Henry Morgan scoured
the Indies through and through,
lou had learned, my pretty lady, what a
man of parts might do.
With the pistol and the powder,
T\ here good shot and steel spoke louder
Than their puling merchant voices, I had
spoken out for you !
In our rotten rags of progress, faith, our
blood is turning white!
Now we thrust with knitting needles, now
with fountain pens we fight,
We are breeding Knights of ledgers, brave
Crusaders of the pen,
But those days of force and fibre bred, at
least, a race of Men.
Oh, they laugh at old romances,
But the Woman in your glances
Fires my fancy with the longing to have
lived and loved you then.
Of their flat and wicked faces I was wearied
long ago !
Oh! to swing the backward sabre and to lift
you up and go,
With a clatter ’cross the cobbles, and a shot
a-down the street,
To the clasp along the roadway and the
quick hedge kisses sweet!
Though absurd my fierce desire is
In your eye a certain fire is—
Tells me still, my pretty lady, that it sets
your heart to beat.
I am sick of sour convention, I am tired of
stale deceit,
And their manners cold and modern as the
stones beneath my feet,
l must back to Truth and Nature, to the
Forest and the Sea,
Where my heart can find expansion and my
spirit may be free.
You may laugh at old romances,
But the woman in your glances
Tells me, even though I reive you, that
you long to go with me!
VICTORIA.
E. J. BRADY.
Tired.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
KELLY’S grandfather, a blackblocks
farmer, had hanged himself at the
ripe age of 76. After they had
"cut him down” they found the following
note, written in a round, laborious hand, on
a scrap of newspaper in the pocket of
his moleskin trousers: “Tired of every-
thing.” Kelly, aged seven, had been pre-
sent at the post-mortem proceedings, and,
with the acute perception of details com-
mon to childhood, had wondered fearfully at
the bulging eyes and the ugly band of purple
round the withered neck. But in a little
while the incident passed from his memory.
He was 12 years older when his uncle, a
cashier in a city bank, followed the old
farmer’s example, with the difference that
he released a weary spirit with the aid of
the bank’s revolver. Kelly’s uncle, too, was
tired—too tired to give much more informa-
tion than his father had done. “Too much
work; too little pay; no other damned in-
terest in life”- —that was his explanation.
This affair was present in young Kelly’s
mind oftener than was good for him. He
wondered frequently what there was in life
to impel a man—a hard-headed, practical
man as he supposed his grandfather to have
been, or an ordinarily respectable, conven-
tion-loving one like his uncle—to seek the
doubtful refuge of the grave.
Now, at the age of 36, Kelly understood.
It was not what there is in life; it was what
there is not. Kelly, like his grandfather
and his uncle, had become tired. Not phy-
sically nor mentally, for his faculties were
as alert as ever they had been. He was not
m debt. He had, in fact, no worries worth
mentioning. The whole trouble, if he had
cared to define it, was that he had no d—d
interest in life, and he was tired of nothing,
and of everything.
At five o’clock one day he straightened up
the papers on his desk, placed some import-
ant documents where they could easily be
tound, and walked home thinking, in his
dispassionate, colorless way, that hanging
leaves a nasty discoloration on the neck,
and that shooting is liable to annoy those
whose business it is to collect the corpse.
However, he could settle the matter after
tea. He ate a good meal, discussed the
weather and the political aspect, as usual,
and retired to his room for the serious busi-
ness of the evening.
A good fire was burning—it was a cold
night—and his armchair was comfortable.
It was a tiresome business, this deciding
how best to kill oneself. Occasionally an
electric tram rushed noisily down the street.
In the intervals there was not enough sound
outside to prevent the silken swish of the
waves on the beach, just over the hill
coming insistently to his ears Drowning
had its effects, too. He had seen a bodv
dragged, with little ceremony, he remem-
bered, out of the sea at Sandringham, and
the sight had disgusted him.
The fire was verv comfortable, and it was
cold outside. It would be colder in the
morning, when he would have to get up at
half-past seven, dress uncomfortably in the
cold, and give himself 10 minutes to break-
fast and catch the beach tram that had
taken him into the city about 300 times a
year for he had forgotten how long. Then
he recollected that ne would not want that
tram again. He wondered, still quite dis-
passionately, whether the girl in the brown
coat would miss him. And then a sentence
that he had read somewhere recurred to
him, and brought him back to the matter in
hand. “The most gratifying feature about
Death,” so it ran, “is that you don’t have
to get up in the morning.” That was the
idea—to go to sleep without having to wake
up next morning, or the following morning,
or any other morning for ever.
So laudanum it would be. It was rather
annoying that he had not thought of it
sooner. He would take just the correct
quantity; there would be no pain; nothing
to upset those who found him in the morn-
ing. There would, he understood, be a feel-
ing of drowsiness; later a faint tinkling of
tiny hammers on a silver anvil deep in his
brain, and then he would go to sleep. It
was very simple, for he had a bottle of
laudanum in the drawer of his dressing-
table.
And then ne sat down to write his last
memorandum. “I am about to cheat the
Reaper, he wrote, and immediately tore it
UP- wrote again: “I am tired, or some-
soft- lam going to kill myself.
Whether this is a brave tiling to do, or a
cowardly thing, does not interest me.” And
as ne laid down his pen, he made the dis-
covery that the bottle was empty.
It is possible that other men in similar
circumstances would have rushed off to the
nearest chemist for another bottle. But
Kelly had lost interest. He tore up his
note, went to bed and slept fairly comfort-
ably, and in the morning dressed in the cold
a ad caught the beach tram as usual.
Hie girl in the brown coat took no man-
ner of notice of him.
BERKELEY.
The Reformer.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WE were engaged, Jim and I, and
were travelling to Brisbane. At
Helidon a benevolent, bald-headed
old gentleman stepped into the carriage, and
began to eye us with a fatherly interest. A
reverend air clung round him like the halo
on “The Third Floor Back,” and a certain
unctuous flavor in his voice wrote Wowser
all over him. He addressed Jim tentatively
and half apologetically.
“Pray, sir,” he said, “do you drink?”
Jim replied promptly : “Ask me at the next
refreshment room, and you’ll soon find out.”
“Ah! I was afraid so. Leave it, my
young friend ; leave it. Wine is a mocker.
Strong drink is raging. Why should a man
put an enemy into his mouth to steal away
his brains? Let me hand you this little
tract, my friend, wherein you will find de-
picted in life-like colors the unhappy story
of James Jenkins, who started by taking a
nightcap every Saturday night, and wound
up by dying as senior partner in a gigantic
brewery—a brewery, sir, that has sent thou-
sands and thousands down to a drunkard's
grave.”
The genial old moralist now turned his
attention to me.
“Pardon me, young lady, if I venture to
ask you do you belong to the Sabbatarian
League ?”
Following Jim’s example, I replied
politely : “No, I do not!”
“But perhaps you are a member of some
branch of our Anti-Dancing Association?”
I replied that I had not that privilege.
“Ah! I was afraid so. Consider, my
dear young lady, what is happening to the
Sabbath. Desecrated by picnics, vulgarised
by so-called sacred concerts, dedicated in
many places to sports, deeply do I fear that
the keening of the Sabbath is a thing of the
past. Reform, my dear young lady. Re-
form while there is yet time. And then you
dance. How many innocent girls have been
lured to destruction by the giddy waltz and
the seductive polka? Salome danced before
Herod, and what was the result? John the
Baptist’s head on a charger! How many.
of our proudest scions of nobility have been
ruined by ballet dancers! . . . But I cannot
do better than give you a copy of my little
pamphlet—‘The Doom of the Dancer’!”
Jim pocketed the Wowser literature, and
at the next station he and I left the carriage
to get a cup of tea. A burly commercial
traveller whom Jim knew, Philip Manson,
joined us at the table, and he and Jim
were soon yarning. Philip took charge of
the tracts, and left before us.
On re-entering the long first-class carriage
we discovered the Wowser seated at the far
end, and Manson occupying the cushions just
opposite. Philip was gazing on his vis-a-vis
with a hungry eye.
“Pray, sir,” said he, “do you drink?”
Sir!!!”
“Ah!” said Manson. “it is as I feared.
Leave it, my friend; leave it! Wine is a
mocker—strong drink is raging. Why
should a man put an enemy into his mouth
to steal away his brains? But I sincerely
trust that you keep the Sabbath holy, and,
above all, that you do not dance”
“Sir, you are not justified”
“Oh ! I am in error—you do dance. Con-
sider the dangers you run from the giddy
waltz and the seductive polka, to say no-
tuing of the wiles of the ballet dancer! Let
me leave you here two pamphlets I am dis-
tributing—the story of James Jenkins, who
started with a modest nightcap and died at
tne head of the biggest brewery in the
Southern Hemisphere; and also my latest
effusion, ‘The Doom of the Dancer’!”
Just then we ran into the Brisbane Cen-
tral Station. My last glance into the far
corner of the carriage fell on an elderly
bald-headed gentleman lying back speechless
with indignation.
F.B.


THE KIDNEY
SUFFERER.
Backache from Morning till Night—Tired,
Miserable, Sleepless, Nervous, Restless,
Rheumatic, Dizzy, Weak, No Appetite, etc.
The housewife with
kidney trouble finds
every little house-
hold task a burden.
Stooping sends a.
sharp pain through
her back ; she feels
drowsy and tired
early in the day;
her nerves seem “ on
edge” : the least
thing irritates her.
Her night’s rest is
spoiled by the dull
ache in her back.
No one whose kid-
neys and blood are
clogged with kidney
poisons could be dif-
ferent. And worse
troubles dropsy,
gravel, urinary dis-
orders, stone, rheu-
matism,headache, ir-
regular heart action
—follow. What is
needed is a medicine
that will cure the
kidneys that will
make them strong
'J
S
Ns
UN
VI
K \
m
\*
y
ve
Tells
£
and well. This is what Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are
for —they quickly relieve the tired-out kidneys—give them
new life and energy. Thousands have been cured of serious
kidney disease by this medicine —cured to STAY cured.
Two Sydney People Cured*
Mr. Alfred Hairsine, “Farnley,” Cowles Road, M osman, Sydney,
says:—“For many years my wife suffered with the kidneys and
bladder. The symptoms were striking, aching pains in the back,
and inability to retain the secretions. She would have to get. up
four or five times every night, and this spoilt her rest. Besides
this, the urine contained sediment, and was stringy. Ten years ago
when in England she consulted a doctor in Leeds; he failed to do
her any good, and remarked to her : ‘There is something about your
case that I cannot understand.’ (I mention this fact because
kidney trouble is often misunderstood.) On our return to Sydney
she went to one of the leading doctors ; he said she was. suffering
from Catarrh of the bladder (commonly called inflammation of the
bladder). He prescribed for her, but his medicine did her no good.
She had several other prescriptions made up, and used various
remedies, but she was getting worse all the time. She was scarcely
able to get about, and would be confined to her bed for days at a
time. She commenced to take Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills in
January, 1904, and they soon made an improvement in her health
by driving out the impurities through the secretions in a natural
manner. Before long she was able to walk about, the backache
was cured, and the secretions were regulated: thus she was no<i
disturbed at night. Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills have done her
a wonderful power of good. Seeing how Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills had benefited my wife, and not feeling quite well myself—l
had painful symptoms of urinary trouble, and difficulty in passing
the urine—l also commenced to take them. They proved just as
good in my case by regulating the secretions, and expelling the
sediment and other impurities. We both feel better than we have
felt for years, and the thanks is due to Doan’s Backache K.dney
Pills.”
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are sold by all Chemists and
Storekeepers at 2/9 per bottle (six bottles 15/3), or posted on
receipt of price by Foster McClellan Co., 76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
[OiTITTI
BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS
PILES—A LASTING CURE BY DOAN’S OINTMENT.
Mr. Geo. Risby, grocery store, corner Hunter and O’Connell Streets, Parramatta,
says:—“For some considerable time I suffered from itching and protruding piles.
Day and night I got no ease. I could not sleep for the pain and irritation, and
during the day I was worn out for w r ant of sleep. I was tortured with this ailment,
and I used so many remedies without getting relief that I thought I would never get
better. However, I had the good fortune to get Doan’s Ointment, and this was the
beginning of the end of my torture. The first application gave me ease, and two
pots cured me absolutely and completely. I let some time go by before writing you,
to be quite sure my cure was permanent. It is now six months since I used Doan’s
Ointment, and I am still well, so can safely say Doan’s Ointment has cured me of
itching and protruding piles.”
Two years later Mrs. Risby says“My husband has had no return of the Piles.
We are very grateful to Doan’s Ointment for his cure.”
Doan’s Ointment is sold by all chemists and storekeepers at 2/9 per pot.
The Fare.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
FARES, please!”
“One!”
“How about the lady?”
“What lady?”
“Lady in the car said you’d pay.”
“Why should I?”
“No good at conundrums. She said the
gentleman outside would give her fare.”
“How nice!”
“You’re the only man out here —all the
rest are ladies.” .
“Must be some mistake. Ask her again.
Feminine smiles wrinkle the atmosphere.
“How about that fare?” _
“Well, what did she say?”
“Says you’re her husband, and you re to
pay at once.”
“Her husband ! Why, I’m not even mar-
ried !”
“Oh, come on, part! She doesn t see any
fun in this kind of fooling, and I haven’t got
time.”
“Was it that slim, pretty woman who got
in at the corner?”
“Yes.”
“Says I’m her husband?”
“That’s so!”
Titters like motor-exhaust splutter on all
sides.
“Come on —I can’t stand talking here all
day!” . ,
“She doesn’t look that sort. I suppose it s
some new blackmail gag.”
"Fares, please!"
“Well —make it two.”
General giggle. Conductor relapses into
thoughts of higher things.
* * * *
“Stop here, please.!”
Lady alights.
“John is getting absent-minded. He for-
gets to pay my fare, and now he has got
carried on ! How annoying !”
Another tram sweeps up. John hops off
before it stops, like a man late for work.
“I dropped my umbrella just as your tram
started, dear. Had to wait and catch the
next. You haven’t been here long?”
“No.” ' ■
“Well,, what.do you want to cry for? I
couldn’t help it.”
“And those horrid Miss Sykes were on
the front of my tram!” Sobs.
“That’s 'no reason for turning on the
water supply, is it?”
“No-—but I wonder who it was that paid
my fare !”
CHAS. P. SMITH.
Breakfast for One.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
MIND you eat all your breakfast!”
shrilled a female voice from the
top of the house.
The red-nosed old gentleman alone in the
sunny breakfast-room poured himself out a
stiff nobbier of whisky, and drank it shud-
deringly in furtive haste.
“Do you hear what I say?” demanded the
voice.
The old gentleman poured a little water
into the glass he had used, swilled it round
and emptied the mixture over a treasured
fern. Then, deftly as a barman, he wiped
the tumbler with his silk handkerchief and
replaced it gently on the sideboard amongst
its clean brothers, just as the maid with his
breakfast-tray came hurrying up the hall.
“James! Please be good enough to pay
attention to me! You must eat every bit
of your breakfast, mind!”
“Yes all right!” he shouted testily, and
seated himself at the table, while the maid
arranged the hot food in front of him.
“Have you taken your tonic?” persisted
the voice.
“I have!” he replied, with a frightful
grimace. , _ .
“I hope you have now! You know it s
been doing you the world of good. You
have eaten every scrap of your breakfast
for the last week.”
The maid, having laid out the repast, re-
tired. , ~
The moment she had gone, the old gentle-
man said “Pah !” and pushed the steaming
plate of fish from him disgustedly.
“You’ve been looking ever so much better
since you started taking”-
But the old gentleman, unable to bear
any more, kicked the door to. Then he
pulled a folded newspaper out of his tail
pocket, and, spreading it on the table, ar-
tistically smeared the plates with the differ-
ent kinds of food. That done, he scraped
the herrings and tomato sauce, the stewed
prunes and junket, two pieces of toast, and
some sundries into the paper, twisted the
four corners till it formed a sort of paper
bomb, and pitched the thing through the
open window. After which, with a savage
grunt of satisfaction, he lit a cigar, and,
opening the morning’s paper, began to read.
There was an interesting crisis in Tibet,
and when he heard the front-door bell ring
violently he paid no particular attention. In
another minute or so the sound of a
strange, high-pitched voice, talking tirelessly
in the hall, made him drop his paper to his
knees and look over his glasses at the closed
door. He listened as well as he could till
he heard hurried footsteps ascending the
stairs.
With the utmost deliberation, he rose
from his chair, and, opening the door, walked
out on the landing.
“Oh, sir,” panted the maid, there s a
gentleman” , , ,
“All right! All right!” he chattered, and
looked over the banisters at a white-
bearded olu soul standing in the hall with a
piece of toast in his trembling right hand,
and his frock coat and white vest decorated
with tinned fish and junket. “Who is he,
and what does he want?”
The hysterical old man in the hall looked
up and shook his buttered toast in the air.
“Look at me!” he cried hoarsely. “Look at
the state I’m in!” .
“What’s the matter with you? snapped
the master of the Jjouse, recognising in the
ancient below a morning-train identity with
whom he had had a fierce argument about
a jumped seat some months previously.
“Matter!” shouted the old man below.
“Why, I’m all over food!”
“What’s that got to do with me/ de-
manded the old man above, with sublime
calmness. .
“It came out of your house, sir.
“Who gave it to you?” .
“Confound you, nobody gave it to me.
It was thrown at me over the fence, or out
of one of the windows. I was passing by
and” „ , . ,
“James! What on earth is all this shout-
ing about?” The hidden females voice rang
out insistently above the clamor.
“It’s all right!” shouted the householder
over his shoulder.
“It isn't all right! Who is that man, and
what is he so angry about? Tell me at
ODC6 !”
“I’m covered with food !” shrieked the old
man in the hall, overhearing the lady s de-
mand for correct information.
“What does he say, James?”
“He says he’s covered with food I
shouted James, furiously.
There was a stunned pause.
“Oh, how disgusting! Tell him he must
go outside at once!”
“You’ve got to go outside at once. blus-
tered James very readily.
“I won't go outside !” howled the mania-
cal old man with the toast. “Someone in
this house threw a parcel of food at me.
I won't go outside the place unless I go tor a
policeman!” . , . ~, , -
“Go and get sober, sir!” shouted, the des-
perate breakfast-thrower. “I believe you
are drunk and that you have fallen into a
dust-box! How dare you come here and
talk nonsense about parcels of food being
thrown at you !” „
“Ridiculous!” shrieked the female voice,
“He must be mistaken!” . .
“I’m not mistaken!” fumed the victim.
“The parcel came out of one of these win-
dows and burst on me chest! I m smothered
in it!” .
“Janies!” cried the Voice, “give him a
shilling and some of your old clothes, and
tell him he must go away at once. .My head
is perfectly splitting with the noise he is
making.”
“Keep your shillings and old clothes!’
yelled the old man, flourishing the toast. “I
liTQiif Timtiop f**
“James ! tell him he must not scream so!
I don’t know what on earth he is saying,
Ask him why he wants custard, and make
sure he is not drunk.”
“Justice!” roared the old man, “Justice
—not custard! And I’m not drunk! If
another person says I’m drunk, I’ll have
the police here as fast, as a cab cad bring
them ! Oh, it’s criminal —it’s outrageous !
Here I am covered with tinned fish, and
prunes and —and curdled milk! I tell you
all, someone’s thrown a whole breakfast
over me, and I won’t stit out of the place
till I know who it is. Now, who is it?”
Dead, blank silence.
“James!” intoned a distracted, yet ter-
rible voice. “James!”
“It’s no use screaming at me!” called
James, defiantly. “I know nothing abouf
it!”
A door upstair flung open, and a tall,
wrappered form hurried out and hailed the
lower deck harshly. “Alice, what did Mr.
Dibworth have for breakfast this morn-
ing?”
The maid flew up from the kitchen and
started to recite the menu: “Herrings an’
tomato sauce; prunes an’ junket; toast” —
“I thought so!” yelled the old man in the
hall.
James recognised that he was lost. “The
fish was bad !” he shouted.
“Oh, Mr. Dibworth!” protested the maid.
“But even so, what necessity was there
to throw it out the window?” demanded the
furious housekeeper.
“Why did you throw it at me, confound
you?” interjected the old man below. “You
threw your whole breakfast over me !”
“Oh, surely not!” faltered the lady on
the bridge.
“Come down and have a look at me!”
screamed the victim.
“I will do nothing of the kind ! Take that
and call round later for some old clothes.”
Half a crown soared over the banisters
and fell jangling in the hall.
“Oh, d —n your money!” •
“I can’t, and won’t stand any more of
this!” sobbed the lady of the house. The
telephone on the landing whirred impera-
tively, and she asked for —qr demanded —
the police station. The whole house listened
in a sort of horrified trance. The exchange at
last put her on, and she started : “Is that
the police station? . . . Well, I am Mrs.
Dibworth, of Marine Parade . . . Yes, Mrs.
Dibworth ... of Marine Parade. . . . There’s
a dreadful man here who says he is all
over food. What? . . . Yes, all over food!
... I can’t hear what you’re saying. . . .
No. I don’t think he has stolen it.”
{“What!” from the hall) ... “I want you
to send up a policeman.” (“Tell ’em to
send two while you’re at it!”) . . . “Hurry,
please! He seems to be getting worse.”
(“So I am!”) . . . “What are you saying?
.. . What? Oh, how foolish of you! Why
didn’t you say it was the grocer’s at once?
. . . Don’t be impertinent!” . . . The bell
whirred again, and the transmitter hung
up with considerable violence. “James!”
she called. And again— “James!!”
The maid cantered half-way up the hall.
“Mr. James has just gone out, Mrs. Dib-
worth.”
“I’m sorry to hear it!” shouted the old
gentleman.
“Impossible !” cried the lady on the bridge,
ignoring the shouter.
“But I saw him!” wailed the maid.
“There is no way out,” protested the
swooning mistress.
“He went through the dining-room win-
dow, Mrs. Dibworth. He got John the gar-
dener to bring the long ladder while you
were at the telephone.”
A stifled scream of rage from the lady,
and, a second later, the door shut with a
vicious and conclusive bang.
The strange old man, quite wearied out,
dashed his piece of toast on the floor, and,
picking up the half-crown, thrust it at the
girl. “Here,” he chattered, “telephone for
a cab for me. I’ll be in the garden.” He
doddered out with threats of iegal proceed-
ings in his mouth and a sizable bit of her-
ring on the back of his collar.
Within ten minutes the maid got definitely
on to the livery stable, and the house was
resounding with her staccato directions:
“You’ve got to send a cab up to Mrs. Dib-
worth’s Yes, a cab An old gentle-
man with food on him wants to go to his
lawyer’s No, the food isn’t luggage—
he’s got it on him! .. . . Yes, a cab ... to
Mrs. Dibworth’s, in Marine Parade. .. .An
old gentleman wants to go to 1aw!”,...
KODAK.


W estinghouse
Oil Engine
For STATIONARY
and MARINE
PURPOSES
No
Carburetter
or
Vaporiser.
h
No
Ignition
Apparatus.
makes the following claims upon your attention :
1— It uses cheap" lamp oil (such > as' kerosene), and other residuals.
2 The oil is injected directly into the cylinder, thus dispensing with unre-
liable and inefficient vaporisers.
3 It is very simple in construction, there being rio electric ignition or other
complicated mechanism.
4 Its speeds are such that electric generators and centrifugal pumps may
be coupled direct.
5 No skilled labor is required, the supply of fuel and lubricant being all
the attention necessary.
FULL PARTICULARS FROM
The Westinghouse Brake Company of Australasia Ltd.,
14 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY,
Queensland Agents: Holmes & Church, Brisbane.
£?t!. t J?* andard H OT POINT
ELECTRIC IRON. Instantly
connected. Hot Iron and
Cool Handle.
MADE in 31b. and 61b. weights ; in sizes 2£"x 54", and 4" x 64" ;
with a 330, 500 and 575 wattage. Prices 25/-, respectively.
It has a pressed steel top, metal covered plug—easy to re-
move a glittering mirror finish—and, over all, our guarantee.
.Thoroughly efficient for both light and heavy work; simple, yet
strongclean, handy and inexpensive. Can also be supplied in
larger sizes for Laundries and Tailors up to 301 b.
FURTHER PARTICULARS ON APPLICATION TO
W. G. WATSON & CO., Limited,
CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
WHY WORRY ABOUT YOUR LUGGAGE?
When Travelling: by Rail or Boat
or ’Phone us upon landing, and we will do the rest. OUR
CHARGES ARE MODERATE and our SERVICE UNEQUALLED. We remove furni-
ture, and forward all descriptions of merchandise by land or sea. Agents in all States, Great
.Britain and on the Continent. All business carefully and promptly attended tp.
SANDERS,SUTTON & WNITENEAP Ltd.,
Corner King and Kent Streets, Sydney, N.S.W.
Phones: Central 476, 2028,4012,1973, 2525 j City 1290,1617. Contractors for N.S.W. Covt. Railways.
N-B. Furniture, Luggage, Merchandise, etc., packed and stored.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Club Rum.
Dog: Head Stout. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
The Rig'ht of Solution of
the Engine Problem.
ĥ
lou want an engine that is Simple, Economical, De-
pendable and Durable. It must be simple so it will not
get out of. repair, and so it will be easy to keep in
good working condition. It must be economical, so
that it will not eat up the profits that it makes for
you. It must be dependable because that is the only
kind of an engine you can rely on. And your engine
must be durable so that it will keep on paying you big
dividends year after year.
Very few engines meet these requirements, yet
«t?a m ‘ Pcl tn talio chances. Choose the
FARMER'S FRIEND” OIL ENGINE. They have
proved their worth in all kinds of work, in pumping
water, in drainage work, in irrigating land, and for the
thousand and one other jobs to which a good engine
can be put.
£t
Farmer’s Friend” Oil Engines
w 1 St y, 1 l es , and all sizes. Choose the “Farmer’s Friend”
Cn»ine, and you will have the best in portable or stationary Engines,
or portable wood-sawing outfits'. But whichever “Farmer’s Friend” you
choose it will save you more money and make more money for you than
any other similar engine you can get.
the ‘^arirmr’s°Fj-ionm’ l n , your satisfaction. Write a postcard now for
the laimei s lUiend Catalogue, which goes into details of construction
a , nci raaterials used in making “Farmer’s Friend” Engines. You will be
pleased with the catalogue, and you should not buy any engine until you
read it. Simply address a postcard. 8 you
A Few Pri «» = 2-k.p., £25; 3-h.p„ £35; 4-h.p„ £45; 6-h.p„ £65;
U.p„ £B5; 12-h.p., £125.
SMALL DEPOSIT—LONG TERMS.
PARTRIDGE S HODGSON,
49 York St., Sydney,
339 Collins St., Melbourne.
As A Family Medicine
nothing has yet been put before the public to be compared with Beecham’s
Pills. For over half a century this medicine has been an easy First Favourite
in countless households, and the name and fame of Beecham’s Pills have
spread all over the world. The reason for the enormous popularity of this
remedy is not far to seek. Experience has shown that there is nothing better
for derangements of the stomach and digestive organs generally. Taken in
accordance with directions, Beecham’s Pills give quick relief, stimulate the
organs to healthy action and have a tonic effect upon the whole system.
They are compounded of the best and purest ingredients and there are very
few people who would not feel better for an occasional dose of
Beecbam’s Pills
If you have not tried them and have any doubt as to their real value and
efficacy, get a box and judge for yourself. You will find Beecham’s Pills a
valuable aperient and unequalled in regulating the stomach, bowels, liver,
and kidneys, and restoring the powers of digestion. A periodical dose will
enable you to keep well and “fit,” ready for work or play. By eliminating
impurities from the system, Beecham’s Pills increase the appetite, promote
assimilation of food and establish good health. No household should ever
be without a box. Many thousands have proved the worth of Beecham’s Pills
and there is no doubt at all that they
Are Tl?e Favourite Remedy.
BUSINESS MEN and OTHERS in need of FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE
SHOULD CONSULT
CITY FINANCE COMPANY LIMITED,
Palmer’s Chambers, 289 Pitt St., Sydney,
who LEND MONEY on any REASONABLE SECURITY
from 10 PER CENT, per annum. FRED. McWILLIAM, Manager.
HOWTO
GROW HAIR
A Simple, Safe and Reliable Way that Produces Surprising Results.
NEW PREPARATION CAUSES BIQ STIR AMONG HAIR SPECIALISTS
The above clearly shows Results from a Short Course of my True Halr=Growing Compound.
10,000 FREE TRIAL BOXES.
Those who are troubled with falling hair, dandruff,
baldness, itching scalp, etc., know full well the
humiliation that they cause. There is no need, how-
ever, of such conditions. These troubles can be
quickly overcome by my True Hair Grower.
I am not an advertising quack, but am a business
man. My hair began to grow thin about the time
I reached the age of thirty. When I had reached the
age of thirty-five the top of my head was quite bald.
I had considerable pride, and sought for something
to cause renewed' growtln I invested in every pre-
paration that I could see or hear of, and here let me
say that not only did I try all the English so-called
restorers, but those of Continental Europe. I also
visited specialists. My experimenting cost me many
sovereigns and considerable time —yet the hairs came
not. I had given up the idea of ever growing hair
again. One afternoon, while enjoying a brief i.usi-
ness respite by an Alpine trip, I fell in with an old
collegiate chemist, whose hair was particularly plen-
tiful. I jokingly remarked that I wished he could
spare some of his hair for my benefit. This led him
to tell me that he understood the human hair as. well
as a good dentist understands teeth. He wrote out a
formula, and suggested that I have a quantity of the
CANT
B
BEAT
RIAR
PIPES
ALL SHAPES
1/-EACH POST FREE 1/2
Quality Not Better
in a
Guinea Pipe
MICK SIMMONS
SYDNEY.
STOREKEEPERS * TOBACCONISTS
SHOOED SEND EOR OCR TRADE UST
SfcNT4i
AJID'f
Superior to
INJECTIONS
ICUBEBS and
COPAIBA.
Cures the same
diseases without
inconvenience
In
48 hours.
Each Capsule bear* the name
ħ
compound prepared. I did this a few days later I
was astonished to see the hair coming forth after
several applications, and within six weeks my head
was covered by a firm, yet soft, black growth of hair
Since then the hair on my head has been as luxuriant
as when in my school days. Having arranged for
the legal right to do so, I have for some time been
privately selling this marvellous hair-growing com-
pound. I hold over one thousand letters from people
who have actually grown new hair through the
mediuni of my true hair grower. I do not pretend
to say it is the only -hair grower in the world—l am
not interested in decrying others—but I do assert
that it is the most reliable, and in the end by far the
cheapest.
Baldness, Dandruff, Itching, etc.,
Free Trial Coupon.
Cut out this Coupon and send with 3 stamps
to cover postage, etc., and I will immediately
post a large trial box of my True Hair Glower.
John Craiven Burleigh, Dept. Rl4, 107 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
Prompt Relief
r from Rheumatism
LUMBAGO, SPRAINS,
AND ALL ACHES AND PAINS
Assured by Applying
S'- JACOBS
Sold everywhere*
ASTHMA C
GRIMAULTS INDIAN fMRFTTFS
relieved by 6EIMAULT & e i y
ETTES. Sold by all Chemist INDIAN «GAB.
BOOKS WQRTH READING. The nei
guide to the new fiction appears in eae
issue of The Lone Hand.


ARCHITECTS specify
Mack Partitions
and have a Fire-Proof,
Sound-Proof
and Vermin-Proof
DIVIDING WALL.
Write for our Catalogue, or call and inspect.
maciTltd.,
Royal Insurance Buildings,
Cor. PITT and SPRING STREETS, SYDNEY.
Melbourne Office: 19 Queen Street.
HOUSE LIGHTING.
Electric Generating Sets, Steam, Oil
and Petrol; and Storage Batteries*
with all necessary fittings,
Lamps, etc., for complete installations.
Write for particulars to
T. K. Steanes, 39 Pitt Street, Sydney. B
Fibro-Cement
If 0 A C | nC f e ’ a T d the 0001 and file-proof
of . Asbestos. It is, therefore, strong,
glift, durable, cool, ant- and fire-proof, artistic in
appearance.
Made in Slates for roofing, Red, Qrey and Purple.
In Sheets Bft. 2lin. x 4ft. for Walls, Lining
and Ceilings.
Se< 3iu >,v -^ l } s *' ra '’ an Governments ; also for covering
Churches, Villas, Homesteads, Dairies, Silos, etc.
Write for Illustrated Catalogue “B”to Sole Importers,
JAMES HARDIE & CO.,
Circular Quay West, SYDNEY; and
581=583 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
WOLFE’S
FOR MEN
FOR WOMEN
The Family Stimulant.
SCHNAPPS
Motor Driven
‘BON ACCORD*
STEEL LINED
CENTRIFUGAL
PUMP
For PUMPING
SLIMES, TAIL-
INGS, etc, Also
for DREDGING
ORES, GRAVEL,
SAND & STONES
h
“ BON ACCORD ’’
Centrifugal Pumps.
HIGH EFFICIENCY.
For .Sand Pumping', Sewerage, Salvage, Condensing.
Irrigating, Draining, DocK Pumping, Mine Pumping, etc.
J. WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR, Ltd., 82Pitt St.,Sydney
ENGINEERS,
IRON FOUNDERS,
BOfIER MAKERS,
MEPHAN FERGUSON
PROPRIETARY LIMITED.
Governing Directors
fMEPHAN FERGUSON
tROBERT SHAND
Office and Works:
Gordon St., Footscray, Victoria.
, Hi m
Manufacturers of
WROUGHT IRON,
CAST IRON, and
STEEL PIPES.
Central
(3236
\5221
mm
v - '
EL]
>■
and GENERAL ENGINEERS,
Removed Offices & Workshops
Wax:
7, 309, 311 Ken
(near Erskine
Street),
Sydney
m
s
-
'■v '"'- V- ■ * •
v’• 'I
for All
tjm
S.
ervi
SI fl
ĥ
Piston and Outside Packed
Plunger Type for —
Mine Sinking, Cyanide Works, Battery
Supply, Tank Filling, Boiler Feeding, etc.
aiso ELECTRIC and POWER
FOR
AUSTRALASIA
A 1
1
M
■I
Engineers 8
Merchants,
ice St., SYDNEY, NS W
ħ
The Fastest Drilling Machine extant.
Consumes less air than any other drill.
The most economical in upkeep.-
Light, extremely strong, and very simple.
Recent Repeat Orders, after trial—
-1 Mine 6 Drills, 2 Mines 3 Drills each .
M
zmxsm.mTWT.
m
Agents
E
r »
mm
263 George Street, SYDNEY;
525 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
