

m
The EMBODIMENT OF PERFECTION— UtWMttd WniOIVT
R. <3-. WATKINS & CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOR—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
Sr d? ter
Jeffrey Elevating and
Conveying Machinery.
For Handling All Classes of Goods in Bulk.
535 Kent Street, Sydney,
AND
486 Collins Street, Melbourne,
S.A. Agent: 0. C. DELANO, Bowman’s Bldgs., Adelaide.
ECOBJvriX.
3SIS- —
Ijadley’s Orient Hotel.
PIONEEf?
LEATHER BELTING * '*•
Guarantbbd.
J. C. Ludowici & Son, Ld.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
h
Take it back,
1 must have—
HUTTON’S
Pine Apple Brand
HAMS S
BACON.
ĥ
a
£ to
u - ui
Sosu
S w <
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets is
recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the diges-
tive organs.
ħ
irnnESSS
h
For INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these speoially-prepared Tablets acts most
beneficially when taken daily after meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
V \ ,/•«:■ ■... > '
&{&,
COiUJ&v « £&-
$9 H/clUa,oMjL' Ur&JLxtu&sj tymnL' Urfiio/<jy to Vfrtds.
sJ* A
\
s.
V*
K
&
o
Money advanced upon all Securities at Reasonable
Rates of Interest.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
THIS COMPANY WAS FORMED TO SUPPRESS USURY.
And at MELBOURNE, BRISBANE and NEWCASTLE.
ĥ
ħ
Royal
Dutch
h
is the Queen oM Cocoas
■ FQI^
lAimStrei^th^Purity:
The Best Insurance Policy Ag'ainst Roof Troubles
Malthoid Roofing.
THERE IS NO WEATHER BAD ENOUGH TO/AFFECT IT.
5 •' . . ‘I.
THE PARAFFINE PAINT COMPANY, CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.—D. S. EVANS, Australasian Manager.
KUPPER LAGER
There is QUALITY,
PURITY and
THORNE’S WHISKY
in the Square
Black Bottle.
DON SPA WATE
“ Would be, could be ” Spa’s, drawn from coal measures, limestone
regions, or saline cordial room inventions, only perform “ (ias=bag ”
duties for the seller and for the buyer too.
1
DEWHDRST g HALLORAN, Ltd..
Ajrats.
The Bulletin
Vol. 3Z. — No. 1633.]
[Thursday, June I, 1911.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


A BOOK FOR EVERY AUSTRALIAN-
OFFICIAL YEAR BOOK OF THE COMMONWEALTH
IJJSO pp. WEIGHS FOUR POUNDS. PRICE, 3s. 6d POST FREE „
Containing Authoritative Statistics for the Period 1901-1910, and Corrected Statistics for the Period if
PUBLISHED UNDER THE AUTHORS OF THE MINISTER FOR HOME AmZ 90 °-
" ~ ” KNIBBS, C.M.G., COMMONWEALTH STATISTICIAN
OF AUSTRALIA.
POST
By G. H.
OBTAINABLE AT
ROBERTSON’S, BOOKSELLERS, 238 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
FOR THE VOICE! THROAT!! LUNGS!!!
Hudson’s “Eumenthol Jujubes. 9 '
AN IDEAL REMEDY
yjo
■
POWERFUL
AUDTWAU**
GERMICIDE
MEDICAL
SHOULD PWOVC
votfi
ON
22fe5tS
SOLD ONLY IN TINS, Price 1/6.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats, Bronchitis,
influenza, and the Prevention of Consumption.
Containing No Cocaine or other Poisonous Drug.
Suited for Old and Young.
Thk Lancet say s . ‘Proved to lie effective bactericidalh
as is cfeosote.”
Unlike cough medicines, “ EUMENTHOL JUJUBES” do
not interfere with the Digestion ; on the contrary, they
have a beneficial effect, as their antiseptic properties
prevent abnormal fermentation of the food when taken
after meals.
Sold by All Chemists, or
Post Free on Receipt of
1/6 in Stamps.
COMPANY, LTD., w york street, Sydney.
THE RED PAGE
THE LOVER TELLS OF THE SANCTU-
ARY OF HIS DREAMS.
Not to the garish, ghastly thoro’fare
That turns night to a harlot, flushed with
wine
And decked with shameful gauds, my steps
incline—
The dull and heedless crowd, the gas-lamps’
flare,
The dissonant, loud laugh, and foolish stare
I shun with lips yet burning, sweet, from
thine,
And eyes yet bright with phantasies divine,
And cheek yet hallowed by thv warm, soft
hair.
Ah, no! Swiftly from these I haste apart,
Thro little, quiet streets, whose darkness
seems
The shadow of my soul, where nothing mars
dim hushed sanctuary of my dreams;
My face uplifted to the splendid stars,
And their great silence chanting in my
heart.
N.S.W.
FRITZ S. BURNELL.
TO ONE WHO DOES NOT WORRY.
Don t worry? By the foolish grin you wear
Who ever thought you could? Go your
_ sweet way
Oblivious, glad, saying your silly say,
And leave the burdens for a man to bear!
Count all the blazing centuries that flare
.Reflected fire of war across your gay
White canopies of slumber, where you pray
That he who shirks the cost the spoil may
share!
O demi-gods of Intellect who tear
The dim, reluctant secrets from the grey
Observant jealousy of rocks and clay—
Is your life worryless and lily fair?
Who tx-oubles Trouble in its dragon lair
Fearless if he be vanquished or slay,
’Tis he who frames the loafers’ careless day
And pays with Death for all your roses
rare!
For hearts that never worry, never dare ;
Severed of soul, white from lost blood are
they
Who wrench the sleeping nations from the
sway
Of poppy-blooms called “Smile” and “Never-
care” !
VIC.
FURNLEY MAURICE.
HOME.
High ih the air the call of some sweet sky-
ling,
New blooms for plundering bees,
New leaves on olden trees,
And Helen with her child above me smiling.
How good to be at home, though white and
ailing,
Though wan and weary-eyed,
To have Helen by my side
And the morning clouds along the sunlight
sailing.
High in the air the little bird still hovers:
Our hearts go up to him
Like winged seraphim—
He sings the marriage-song of constant
lovers.
QUEENSLAND.
HAMILTON WOOD.
MORS TYRANNUS.
Thrice-hateful Death ! well wert thou named
A monster; what a work is thine!
"rnu a . l ? ™ou wilt —and all-unblamed
The vile, the old, the weak who pine
in vain for strength, or those whom Care
Has conquered; these we would not save
Who cumber earth—but leave the fair,
The strong, the beautiful, the brave!
The liP s that once were fraught with fire
Hie cold and mingled with the soil;
The breasts that once were men’s desire
mu r< l m °hld that writhing worms despoil;
The tender and expressive eyes
.That shone with youth and. health and iov
The blank with Death, whose lovely prize
The grave’s foul harpies now destroy.
AT! ’tis a sorry scheme of things
. That sets thee, blind, to strike abroad
■a bold and craven, churls and kings—
At those who bear and those who load.
M ®h P rat es of righteousness and truth
While all that’s good and all that’s brave
Hass from us in their proudest youth,
And age and evil cheat the grave!
Tt has been said thou hast no sting—
Tis but a childish human boast,
Repeated for self-comforting
By those who hate and fear thee most.
The Cross, the Crescent and the Star— >
Ay! all the symbols that men raise
Defiant at thee, Time, will mar
With dust from the uncounted days.
Some talk of future life and bliss ;
’Twas half-believed in long ago:
We want ho better life than this
Released from sickness, want and woe.
And thou, Death, brought to know thy place
Of servitor —not Tyrant; then
The world shall house a god-like Race
And Paradise appear to men.
N.S.W.
O. C. CABOT.
John Long staff
There has not been much alteration in
John Longstaffs appearance since he left
here for London 10 years ago. The grey
note in the hair is new; an inch or so may
have been added to his middle distance, and
the general effect is a shade more English
than it used to be. In the street he would
pass for somebody in the wool or wheat line
—doing well. In the studio at the
Royal Art Society’s rooms, where an un-
finished “head” of Prof. MacCallum beamed
as naturally as life from the canvas, Long-
staff is the same keen, rapid craftsman whose
“Henry Lawson” was done in oil in two
sittings. He talks in short sentences,
mostly about the other fellows —Lambert,
Streeton, Bunny and the rest of the Austra-
lian colony in London —not much about Art,
and very little about himself. Some leading
questions provoked a few remarks, which
may be interesting.
JOHN LONGSTAFF.
“Yes, lam very glad to be back. I came
out to see my people in Victoria. I should
have returned this month, but two commis-
sions here (Professors MacCallum and An-
derson Stuart) will keep me awhile. There
is also an attractive offer from another
State. I should like to stay—yet there are
reasons why I must go back soon. I had
plenty of work in London: you can make
money and spend it there; lots of things do-
ing, pleasures and so on; you get caught
in the whirl, and it’s hard to get out. But
you could paint here—the things you want
to paint.
“One thing that strikes me on coming back
is the color in Australia. You appreciate it
much more after being away from it. Really,
it’s a revelation. The greens and greys
of the bush seem softer, more beautiful, and
there’s more variety than I’ve been used to
lately. I’m speaking more particularly of
the Victorian bush, which I know best. I’d
like to stay long enough to get studies for
some ‘subjects’ 1 have in mind.
“Of course, an artist finds many advan-
tages in London or Paris which he cannot
get here. There is a larger picture-buying
public for one thing. But, then,, the com-
petition is greater. I should say that a man
has just as much chance of getting out
what’s in him here. He might be better if
he began there—l don’t know. Looking at
some of the things I painted before I left I
am surprised that they’re so good—that is
from my present standard.
Artists certainly cannot complain of the
Government in N.S.W. The proposal to build
a gallery for exhibiting painters seems gen-
erous. It ought to do a lot of good.
“Considering their age and size, Sydney,
Melbourne and Adelaide have very fair col-
lections of pictures. I don’t know what gre
the present arrangements for buying in
Europe. You say ‘unsatisfactory.’ Well,
why not appoint a committee of Australian
artists in London to act for the State? You
might be able to get, say, three of the best
to give up the necessary time. They know
Australia, and know what pictures there are
here. Besides, their interest in the.country
would make them anxious to get the best
they could for the money. Australians
abroad are very patriotic, you know.”
Longstaff’s suggestion cordially recom-
mended to the notice of the gentlemen whom
a strange destiny has made the arbiters of
the Art affairs of N.S.W
Australian Artists at the R.A.
William Bede writes from London:
The Royal Academy opened its doors to
the public on May 1. Australia continues
to be well represented, and notably by one
exquisite thing of Fred Leist’s. We also
have George Lambert, A. Henry Fullwood,
Bertram Mackennal, Arthur Streeton, and
er ~' new-comer to these shores.
Kupert Bunny is absent—all his work hav-
mg gone to the Salon; and George Lam-
bert s best thing of the year was sent to the
Modern Portrait Painters, where, within an
hour of the opening of the doors, it found
a purchaser at 500 guineas.
In the picture exhibited here, Lambert
has succeeded admirably iu producing a de-
corative arrangement of two figures—male
and female—the dominating notes in color
being brown, ivory-white, and blue. The
male figure holds up to the woman a lovely
mask typifying Time, but one somehow feels
either that the male figure is a trifle too
brown, or that the woman —typifying Love
—is a trifle too powdered. It makes me
wonder whether Lambert is intentionally
testing his own impeccable technique.
Arthur Streeton’s landscape is a rendering
of the relative values of white clouds to
white chalk cliffs. The just relation is
missing, since the cliffs are done with the
same white-beladen paints as. are the clouds.
Nevertheless the noble design is a worthy
appreciation of the possibilities of the Eng-
lish landscape, and the whole thing tells
as a massive, joy-giving effort. Fullwood’s
“Way to the River” is a view of Old Rich-
mond Bridge, with a humanising group of
figures bathed in that quasi-sunlight so
typical of the Thames Reaches. It shows
a firm grasp, and confidently deals with the
problem of aehitecture plus figures.
Fred Leist’s picture is of a little girl—
Ids daughter, by the way—who is shown
standing by a mirror in an angle of a room.
Although on the line, this creation of a sensi-
tive, nature-loving painter would have re-
ceived no more than justice if it had been
“centred.” The first of Bertram Macken-
nal’s contributions is a recumbent figure for
the tomb of General Buller. There is a fine
bigness of treatment, and a refined sense of
balance in its treatment of detail. The
other is a beautiful sketch model for a
statue of Gainsborough, to be erected at
file latter’s birthplace. The figure at the
base is influenced by the modern French
school of sculpture, and would be an exem-
plification of a most deft blending of the
conventional with the pictorial treatment
of statuary if carried out.
M. S. Power, though, as I have said, a
newcomer, has seen Hunting and felt its
call. I lis “In Full Cry” will appeal alike
to poet, painter, and M.F.H. Tom Roberts
is not represented this year, as he lias sent
all his work to the big exhibition in Rome.
The magnificent and indeed Sargentesque
bust of him, by Derwent Wood, however, is
like to keep him well in memory. It is one
of the finest instances I can recall of the
application of bronze to portraiture.
Modern Dramatists
Ashley Dukes is a man who lias a point-
of-view and definite opinions about the dram-
atic work of recent years. His book on
Modern Dramatists (Sydney Book Club) is
a valuable survey of the pioneer dramas
since Ibsen, showing how that iconoclast
freed the theatre and improved the form of
plays, and tracing his influence upon
Bjornson, Strindberg and the leading drama-
tists of Germany, Austria, Russia and Eng-
land. Most of their plays we cannot hope
to see acted in Australia until we get a
national theatre. Many of them are un-
suitable for foreign audiences. Yet they are
of interest to the reader here as reflections
of the spirit of the respective peoples.
Strindberg, “an outcast in this age,” is
neither for the many nor the cultured few.
Ilis 46 plays are for the future, and one
fact, according to Jukes, sums him up:
Nietzsche admired his work.
However great Sudermann may be as a
novelist, he is second-rate and boui’geois—
a mere pedlar, as a dramatist. Hauptmann
is a poet, and in dramatic form he has
passed beyond Ibsen.
Hugo von Hofmannsthal, an Austrian,
who published his first play at the age of 17,
is regarded by Jukes as the chief hope of the
modern theatre. His best work is in verse,
and the verse is untranslatable.
In England Shaw’s outstanding position
is “largely due to the flatness of the sur-
rounding country.” Yet he is, judged by
the whole of his work, the greatest individual
-force in modern drama. Shaw’s service is
the revelation of a personality engaged in
criticism of life. “With one passion and
much wit he has given this criticism drama-
tic force”:—
There is none of that “broad Alpine sur-
vey of the Gomic Spirit” extolled by Mere-
dith in the preface to The Egoists, which,
while it watches over sentimentalism with
a birch-rod,” is, nevertheless, "not opposed
to romance.”
His one passion is indigfiation. His car-
dinal defect is that he fails to arouse the
emotions —-“the melting mood” which he
says he desires more than anything else.
And he fails because his opposition to ro-
mance has resulted in a loss of beauty.
Shaw tore the hero limb from limb, and
GrauVille Barker is engaged in piecing him
together again
He has been reconstructed upon strictly
Shavian lines, dispassionately and without
romance. At present he appears something
of an invalid, pallid, bloodless, hobbling upon
the crutches of intellect into the consulting-
room of wit.
Galsworthy, who has eliminated the hero
altogether, has tried to make great drama
out of little people.
Summing up, Jukes finds definite national
characteristics in the modern drama—there
are “frontier walls which not even the
strongest individuality can altogether de-
stroy.”
So one might envisage them all from the
Scandinavians to D'Annunzio, a grown
ot travellers whose tales are the more wel-
come because each so clearly has liis home
Nationality becomes articulate.
New French Books
Edmond Rostand, par L. Haugmard (San-
sot, lfr.). The author has no illusions as
to Rostand's greatness as a poet; he credits
him with a pretty fancy and an amazing
skill in rhyming—nothing more. The vol-
ume contains autographs, portraits an
bibliography.
Nouveaux dialogues des amateurs, pa
Remy de Gourmont (Mercure de France, f
8.50). The subjects range from divorce t
Joan of Arc. In this, as in the previous vo -
ume, he captures fewer ideas than in th
earlier series; the dialogue form is mor
wordy than the paragraphs of Epilogue
A la maniere de, par P. Reboux and
Muller (Grasset, fr. 3.50), is an enlargec
edition of a collection of parodies, mostl
of contemporary authors, that appeared i
1907. They are parodies of incident o
mannerism. The more delicate art of style
parody, of which Max Beerbohm is an ex
ponent, our authors rarely attempt, but the
get a good deal of fun, by exaggeration an
inversion, out of Octave Mirbeau, Madam
de Noailles, Tristran Bernard and others
These are too long to quote, and some ar
unquotable. Here is portion of L’omelett
aux confitures, in the manner of Iluysman
(the Huysmans of A vau Veau and the poem
in prose of Le liar eng) :
Dejfi l’entrecote n’est plus qu’une bidoch
carbonisee, et les haricots verts racorni
commercent hpuerle roussi... Dans la poele
cependant, le beurre fondu crachote et pSte
La mixture triturde y culbute pour un mo
ment ; son gresillement s’ach&ve sur un pla
de vieux Strasbourg craquele, ou des roses
viol litres s’accouplent a des feuillages d’un
vert acide. Alors le souillon liappe un poi:
de confitures; it l’dclat des ors, des ambres
des orpiments, des chromes opulents et des
cadmiums fougueux la gel€e de groseilles
vient ajouter la vehemence redoutables des
laques carminees et la fanfare des garances
The sestet of Le Cable, an Hdrddian son
net, is a fair sample of the verse:—
Les grands requins beants et les horribles
scombres
Des gouffres bleus d’en haut plongent aux
gouffres sombres
En frolant les fucus de leur ventre poli.
Et, parmi les coraux ou s’enfouit le cable
ils s etonnent, roulant leurs gros yeux pleins
d’oubli,
De cet inerte et long serpent inexplicable.
* * * #
Two good sensation novels, the first with
a hint of H. G. Wells, are La merveilleuse
aventure par Cyril-Berger (Ollendorff), a
prophecy of the year 2100, as in the Time
Machine, “les hommes-taupes,” the under-
world, have the last word; and Le mort
vivant par M. Donat (A. Michel) wherein a
savant invents an automatum in his own like-
ness, which his valet substitutes for its in-
ventor. Both are skilfully managed, but
neither is of equal interest with a volume
of short stories in a similar kind by Maurice
Renard, published earlier in the year: Le
voyage immobile (Mercure de France) —three
fancies, a fourth dimension adventure and a
horror that turns on the pei’sistence of hyp-
notic suggestion after death. Each at fr.
3.50. „
* * * *
Calmann-Levy announce for May, a new
novel of Anatole France, Les anges a Paris.
M. Blaizot has in the press Baudelaire in-
time, by the late Pierre Tournachon, better
known as “Nadar,” photographer, carica-
turist and balloonist; it will contain unpub-
lished portraits and caricatures.
J. M. Dent and Co. have in preparation a
cheap series of French authors in the orig-
inal. It will number 100 volumes, all of
which they hope to publish within the next
In months, and is intended to be representa-
tive of French literature from the eleventh
Century to the present day. Among early
issues will be Alfred de Musset: Pofisies,
Balzac: Le p4re Qoriot, and Chateaubriand :
Rene and Atala.
V.V.V.
Miss Cora Minnett, an Australian who
published a book of verses here some years
ago, is now in London. A novel of hers—
-1 he Bay After To-morrow —has had some
success, and another one called The Model
Millionaire is to be issued by a new pub-
lisher, Mr. Ham-Smith, who has taken over
the business of John Milne.
The latest instalment of Everyman’s
Library includes Miss Sheppard’s novel—
Charles Auchester, in which Mendelssohn.
Berlioz, Jenny Lind, Hullah and other musi-
cians are represented. There are also edi-
tions of The Ring and the Book and The
Old Yellow Book, on which Browning
rounded his poem; Anson’s Voyages and
Herbert Spencer’s Essays on Education.


At
w aae
cos®
spy
V y
fim
\
O
If
11
Y%
*Z-- \ so—
C&4 •£*
**■= o
k > ,,llJ v r
■3CS. W
<=>
■SC
i-T
MM- 8
?t
DESCRIPTION OF ILLUSTRATIONS.
The Queen Knitted Golf Coat, new Sac Shape, Turn-back Fronts,
Turn-down Collar ; Colors —Leaf Green, Reseda, Old Rose and
Ivory 37/6
Similar Style, No. 440 ; Single-breasted, Navy, Brown, Myrtle, Green
and Ivory... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 32/6
Similar Style, No. I, with Strap, Ivory only ... ... ... 29/6
The Oxford Knitted Golf Coat, Sac style, Collar and Cuffs, finished
Silk Braid, Vent at back ; Saxe, Navy, Reseda, Brown, Old Rose
and Cream ... 29/6
The Rink Knitted Sports Coat, extra weight, Myrtle, Amethyst,
Brown, Ivory and Black... ... ... ... ... ... 11/6
No. 42—Knitted Wool Tennis or Golf Coat, extra weight, Norfolk
Style in Cream and Cinnamon Brown, only ... ... ... 22/6
No. 35—Knitted Wool Golf Coat, Norfolk Style ; Kingfisher Blue,
Navy, Myrtle, Golden Brown, Dark Brown, Reseda, Cardinal,
Black and Cream 11/6
Similar Style, No. 105 ; in Cream and Navy, only 13/6
Similar Style, No. 2082 ; in Brown, Myrtle, Grey, Cream and Brown
and Green, Heather Mixtures ... 19/6
Also No. 2080 ; Reseda, Navy, Brown, Old Rose, Cream and Black, 15/6
No. 8169 — Boys’ Navy and Cream Tunics, fastened at side,
double-breasted effect, circular collar, extra fine Serge—
Sizes —00, 11/6; o, 12/6; 1, 13/6
No. 100 — Girls’ Jerseys, fancy and plain designs, fastened at side, roll
collar ; colors—Navy, Cardinal, Myrtle, Brown and Cream —-
Sizes —-I, 1/11 ; 2, 2/3 ; 3, 2/6 ; 4, 2/9 ; 5, 3/=
No. 132— Boys’ Cream Knitted Tunics, fastened on shoulder,
double-breasted effect, suitable for children, 2 to 6 years—
Sizes —I, 5/= ; 2, 5/6 ; 3, 6/= ; 4, 6/6
No. 2252— Maids’ Fledgling Dressing Gowns, deep circular collar,
piped fancy cord, in Sky and Cardinal, suitable for girls from 8 to
16 years— Sizes —27, 8/6 ; 30, 8/11 ; 33, 9/6 ; 36, 9/11 ;
39, 10/6; 42, 10/11 ; 45, 11/6; 48, 11/11
Also a nice range of assorted colors in Flannel and Flannelette.
No. 4 — Girls’ Reefer Coats, suitable for children, 1 to 4 years—
Sizes —16, 5/11 ; 18, 6/6 ; 20, 6/11 ; 22, 7/6
No. 6320— Girls’ Rough Serge Paletots, in Green, Brown,
Amethyst, and Navy, collar and cuffs, trimmed Velvet to match—
Sizes—36, 19/6 ; 39, 20/6 ; 42, 21/6 ; 45, 22/6
Anthony Horderns
for Everything.
E are Family Drapers, Manufacturing Jewellers,
VV Complete House Furnishers and Universal
Providers, and our immense store, with its
Magnificent Stock of the World’s Choicest Commodities,
offers attractions that cannot be obtained elsewhere.
Write for our Illustrated Departmental Price Lists of
anything you want, posted free on request. They place
our immense stock at the command of everyone in
Australia.
Fifteen Shillings expended at the New Palace
Emporium will go further than a sovereign spent elsewhere, c
The goods are fresher, the assortment greater, and
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ FAMOUS LOW PRICES
ARE THE LOWEST IN THE LAND.
9J.
P§sm j
3K 0
. m
»■*
?r
Hr
*
-»:
8169
00
132
&
B B
CV*
L/jfffe
fm
m
Ofa t
owe*,
2ZSZ
6320
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
v:
*B*l4“
t't’WOtftCf
PUBLIC CAUTION
When asking for PH OS FERINE see that the article
you get is the genuine and spelt
PHOSFERINE
Refuse any preparation of a similar sounding name
which may be offered from interested motives. The
original and only genuine PHOSFERINE is prepared by
ASHTON & PARSONS, LTD., LONDON
h
The Royal Example
ĥ
Phosferine is used by the Royal Families of Europe,
which, in plain language, means that every user of
Phosferine knows and feels that this famous Tonic is
recommended by the greatest living Physicians.
Indeed such has been its fame and recommendations, that
there is scarcely a Royal Residence in which PHOSFERINE
is not used and favourably spoken of,
PHOSFERINE
THE GREATEST OF ALL TONICS
No other medicine has received such absolute proof of its
extraordinary properties in restoring shattered constitutions
and in giving back to the prematurely aged new life and
energy. It is a proven remedy for Neuralgia, Nervous
Debility, Indigestion, Sleeplessness, Exhaustion,
Loss of Appetite, Lassitude, Faintness, Brain=Fag,
Headache, and all disorders consequent upon a reduced
state of the nervous system.
ħ
Remember.
Imitations of Phosferine
are similar only in
name. Insist upon having- the genuine
Phosferine the kind that is supplied
by Royal Command
h
To the British Royal Family
H.I.M. the Empress of Russia
H.M. the King of Spain
H.M. the King of Greece
H.M. the Queen of Roumania
And the Principal Royalty and Aristocracy throughout the world.
{The Genuine Phosferine is sold by all Chemists Stores, etc., in bottles, f /- and 2/6.
The 2/6 size contains nearly four times the 1/- size.
H.M. the Queen of Spain
H.I.H. the Dowager Empress of Russia
H.I.H. the Grand Duchess Olga of Russia
H R.H. the Grand Duchess of Hesse
The Imperial Family of China,
Richardson Cushion Frame, Anti-Jar Ball
Bearing: Roller Skates.
Used exclusively in allot the largest and most successful rinks in America,
and bv all the’ Champions of the World, fast and fancy. RICHARDSON
SKATES have held all World’s Records for 24 years. Write for Catalogue.
Tells how to open and operate Rolleijßinks.
Richardson Ball-Bearing: Skate Co., 311 Michigan Street, Chicago, U.S.A.
RICHARDSON
CHICAGO
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security or Freehold or Leasehold
City or Suburban Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Government Debentures. Inscribed Stock or Treasury Gills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaving
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Dirkctors — The Hon. A. VY. Meeks. M.L.C., Chairman : Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman : Benjamin
Short Esq. : The Hon. James Burns. M.L.C. : The Hon. R. J. Bla,ck, M.L.C.; The Hon. F.E. Winchcombe, M.L.C.;
Adrian Knox, Esq., K.C. General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teeee. P.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. H. W. APPERLY, Secretary.
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau.
Full Particulars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Climate Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Crown Land suitable for Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on
Better Terms than elsewhere in Australia.
Corner of Queen and
George Streets* Brisba
T. C. TROEDSON,
General Director.
Sydney Branch Office at 116 Pitt Street. —Local Director: A. MESTON.
1
Aa7
Why you should wear
)91
6*
All=wool unshrink-
able SocKs, Stockings,
_ and Underwear.
Because
they are the most comfortable dl-Australasian-wool wear:
they are absolutely unshrinkable: they are English Made.
The %g£S3> process imparts a soft, silky finish which makes
wear superior to all others.
Yet cost no more than ordinary hosiery and
underwear.
"jZCL&OTIL Socks, Stockings, and Underwear for Men. Ladies, and Children.
In all prices. Of Men’s Outfitters, Drapers, and Stores. If your
dealer does not stock "fZctdvril he can obtain it from his wholesale house.
In case of difficulty write for “ Jason " booklet and name of nearest
Agent, to —
Jason Hosiery Co., Leicester, England.
<i>
Will Anprape ™ BOOKS.
Dr. Thomas Faulkner’s
GREAT
BOOR OF NATURE
and ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE,
1908 Edition.
Vastly Improved.
The ONLY GENUINE
UNABRIDGED EDITION.
3/6, Post Free 4/-
Write for Descriptive
Circular of Contents,
post free anywhere.
Kelly Gang, True Story,
1/-. Book of Coin Tricks,
1/-. Wrestling, by Frank
Gotch, World’s Champion,
lOd. One Thousand Ways
to Get Rich, 1/6. How Old
Mose Counted Eggs, and
115 other Recitations, 1/-.
Letter Writer, 1/-. Dr.
Foote’s Plain Home Cyclo-
paedia, latest edition, 1248
pages, 400 colored plates
and engravings, 7/6. Dr.
Faulkner’s Original Book
of Nature, the only genu-
ine and unabridged edi-
tion, 3/6, posted 4/-. Free-
masonry Explained, 1/3.
New Tricks with Cards,
1/-. Howto Mesmerise, !/-
AND ANY BOOK
YOU WANT.
Mention The Bulletin.
CHEAP CONJURING TRICKS.
7 2
&
Marvellously Simple 1
Simply Marvellous !
Multiplying and Van-
ishing Billiard Balls,
Produced from no-
where, appearing: at
word of command be-
tween-the finders (see
illustration). Complete
with Full Instructions
(enabling: the merest
amateur to perform it),
1/6 ; posted, 2 -
Two-from-Five Card
Trick. Another start-
ler, introducing: some-
thing quite new in
magic. Price 6d. ; post
free, Bd.
The Above Two Tricks (which require no stage,
no confederates and no special skill), post free any-
where. wir.h Illustrated Catalogue of Magic, 2 6.
Above prices include postage to any address. Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne.
A CLEMENTS TONIC Letter
from the Proprietress of the Beach
Hotel, Williamstown, Victoria.
Why Mrs. Hayes and her Family Enjoy such Good Health.
Beach Hotel, Twyford Street,
Williamstown, 21/3/’ll.
Clements Tonic Ltd.
“It is a few years back that I was getting out of sorts or run down, that I used
Clements Tonic first. At that time I had a burning sensation at the back of my
head, and my eyes became very much affected. I believe it was a nervous disorder,
and, if it had not been checked, might have led to something serious. I was very
fortunate in the choice of Clements Tonic, for I have always found it a grand medi-
cine. Most of my family are grown up, but if any little ailment overtakes them,
they always go for Clements Tonic. I think that is why my family enjoy such good
health. First they never let a complaint get a hold, second they take the right
medlCme ‘ (Signed) EMMA HAYES.”
Here is Another Letter of Gratitude. Read Each Word.
347 Fitzroy Street,
Fitzroy, 25th Feb., 1911.
Clements Tonic Ltd. „ _ , . , „ ...
“I would like to let you know the benefits I have received from your medicine,
Clements Tonic. It was early in 1!)05 that my illness started. I was under the
care of the doctor for quite six months without any benefit. Another doctor was
called in, hoping that change of treatment would have the desired effect. I had his
attention for another six months. They both said I had Liver complaint in a very
bad form, and was hysterical. I know my nerves were in a very bad way, that I
had great pain of body, especially in the shoulders. I was never able to sleep more
than two hours out of twenty-four. I cared for very little food. I was an out-
door patient of two hospitals, giving each three months’ trial. I was so weak and
thin my friends had to help me tlrnre and back. I met with the same disappoint-
ment there; it looked as if I was never to recover my health. I took a number ot
other medicines, which was only a loss of time and money. Fortunately at that
late period a Clements Tonic book was put under my door, and in that I found a
case corresponding with my own. I started on that medicine and took a bottle a
week for twelve weeks, and for this last twelve months I have enjoyed perfect
health. Dee this as 5 -ou think lit. (gigned) MABEL SHEIMPTON."
To Victorian people in any part of the country where medical men are few and a good
reliable medicine is required, Clements Tonic is the one that should be kept in the
house. It never fails to relieve in cases of Constipation, Biliousness, Low Spirits,
Poor Blood, Loss of Sleep, Sluggish Liver, Sick Headache and Palpitation.
Keep it always in the house. All Chemists and Stores sell it through Australia.


Arc
You
Thin?
Paic?
m
I
m
m
/■
All run dc*vn, easily tired, nerv-
ous? And do not know what
to take? Then go direct to
your doctor. Ask his opinion
of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. It con-
tains no alcohol, no stimulation,
and is a blood purifier, a nerve
tonic, a strong alterative, an aid
to digestion. Ask your doctor
about Ayer’s non-alcoholic Sar-
saparilla as a strong tonic for
the weak.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer Sl Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
YOUR EYES!
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
EYE
OINTMENT.
instant
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE IT!
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-. Or by post from
Proprietors, 443 Bourke St., Melbourne.
Ask your Friends
why they use Cerebos
Salt ; you will find
they use it because of
its purity, or its good-
ness, or its daintiness
—-or for all three
qualities,
Cerebos
Salt.
Agents—Harrison & Attwood, Sydney.
m
NTS
PAT
Collison&Go.
PATENTS and TRADE MARKS
obtained in all countries.
483 Collins St., MELBOURNE.
Eagle Chambers, ADELAIDE
Write us for Inventors’ Guide. Established 1877
For RHEUMATISM
GBLERYST
and all BLOOD DISORDERS.
Packets, 3d., 6d. snd Is.
RUPTURE
Do you suffer from this complaint? No
doubt you wish to be cured without operation.
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
trusses ? Then send for our little book,
giving a full description of our
AUTOMATIC
Air Cushion Appliance
by means of which a permanent cure can be
effected. We positively affirm this in spite ot
the many previous disappointments you may
have had. This appliance is something en-
tirely new —is in fact the Best Rupture
Appliance of the Centuryj and to
prove this to you
WE GIVE YOU TWO DAYS TRIAL
with each appliance that we send out. Perfect
comfort and ease from the first day’s use. No
steel bands to torture or galling pads or
leather chafing understraps. The pad is made
of soft pliable rubber, which presses gently
but firmly on the correct spot.
Tull Particulars Posted Pree f
WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
h
Good for
The Children
Every mother knows that there is
no better Cough Medicine for the
little ones than “Bonnington’s Irish
Moss.” Its soothing and healing
properties are at once noticeable. It
is pleasant to take and affords relief
from the first dose.
Guaranteed entirely free from harmful narcotics
BONNINGTON’S IRISH MOSS
gained its place in public favor by sterling worth, and keeps it by the same
unchanged efficiency. For the relief and cure of Coughs and Colds, Bronchitis,
Whooping Cough, Croup, this remedy is unsurpassed.
BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTES.
Always ask for "BON IMI NGTON’S’
1/6 & 2/6
HEALTHFUL. ECONOMICAL. CONVENIENT.
BICKFORDS Essence of Coffee,
OUR JACK” Brand.
Obtainable Everywhere.
Fulfils the requirements of the " PURE FOODS” Act.
100 CUPS FOR 1/6.
A. M. BICKFORD & SONS, LTD., Pitt St„ Sydney; Currie St„ Adelaide ; Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
How French Women
Develop
Tshe . . .
BUST
The absence of a full ,
well-rounded bust takes
away four-fifths of a
woman’s -charm.
Emaciation is really one
form of disease, and thp
inability to add sufficient
tissue to round out and give to the
body a symmetrical appearance
is, in most cases, evidence that
some ailment is interfering with
the digestive and assimilative
processes.
How often have you watched
the tremendous social progress of
some of your female acquaint-
ances who, though not so fortu-
nate maybe as yourself in intel-
lectual attainments, but possess-
ing charm because of an excep-
tional figure, have carried all
before them.
As the magnet draws the steel,
so the influence created by a distinctive figure
attracts man.
Let two women enter a room together, both
strangers to the assembled guests ; let one be
as pretty as a picture in the face, thin and
slight-chested; the other full-bosomed,
*
/
well-rounded shoulders, hips developed pro-
portionately for height, and a full, rounded
(even though plain) face. Which receives
the admiration of the gathering ? . She with
the pretty figure every time ! The pretty
face is a bad second.
You are not to blame for being thin; but
if you remain thiq, scrawny and undeveloped,
the blame rests entirely on your ow T n shoulders.
Thousands of weak, nervous, run-down,
anaemic women who, when they
came to us, were mere shadows
of what Nature intended them
to be, are now, as the result of
a few weeks’ proper guidance,
perfect examples of female devel-
opment- —healthy, strong and
permanently restored to vigorous
womanhood.
Send 2d. stamp, and let us tell
you, free of any cost, how you
may develop your bust. We
will also send you a FREE
TRIAL SAMPLE of Treatment.
Write at once.
FALLIERE FLESH-FOOD CO.,
5 LINDEN COURT,
Cor. Castlereagh & Market Streets,
SYDNEY. [lBO5
ĥ
ħ
Especially
valuable in hot
climates.
IDEAL FOOD FOR
CHILDREN FROM BIRTH.
Only the choicest Malted Barley,
Wheat and Pure Milk used in the
manufacture, and so combined as
to form a perfectly nutritious
food suitable to all ages.
Beware of Infants’ Food containing Starch.
Horlick’s Malted Milk is passed by the Board of
Health for Australia, as Free from Starch.
Requires No Cooking. No added Milk.
Prepared instantly by stirring in water.
Wholesome. Invigorating. Sustaining.
Recommended by the Medical Profession.
Sold by all Chemists and Stores.
Samples:—B2, PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Horlick's Malted Milk Co., Slough, Bucks., England.
Free t> Smokers!
Mr. R. J. Hinton, Jerrara Creek, Marulai*.,
N.S.YV., writes: —
“It gives me great pleasure to inform you that I
have been completely cured of the Tobacco
Habit by your wonderful Tobacco Specific, after
using tobacco heavily for seven years, sometimes
Boz. to lOoz. in the week. It is now 12 months
since I last used tobacco, and, although I am con-
tinually in the company of smokers, I do not have
the least desire to smoke, therefore I consider
the cure permanent.
“My general health is now perfect; all my
former complaints, such as irregular Heart
Action, Dizziness, Nervousness and Stomach
Trouble, which I have every reason to believe
were caused through the use of tobacco, have en-
tirely disappeared, and are only remembered as a
hideous nightmare. I eat and sleep well, and feel
fit to face the world again. It will give me great
pleasure to recommend your remedy to others.”
free sample.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you a FREE
SAMPLE of Tobacco Specific, also Booklet, Testi-
monials, etc.
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
DEPT. G, VICTORIA ARCADE, SYDNEY, [I
£1573|18/9
at a penny a smile, the cash valm
The Wayback Series
v'
A WISH:
Let good Digestion
Wait on Appetite
And Health on Both.
“ Montserrat”
:: :: Sauce
the basis of which is
“MONTSERRAT” LIME
FRUIT JUICE, helps to
fulfil this cheery wish.
Ask your Storekeeper for it.
Guaranteed free from Preservatives.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Land of Upside-Down.
When I was still a tiny kid I thought, poor little
soul,
Suppose I took the garden spade and went and dug
a hole,
And dug, and dug, and dug, and dug, by sun and
candlelight,
That I should find Australia near when I knocked
off at night;
And if I dug down deep enough, right through the
cabbage beds,
I’d find the aboriginals all standing on their heads.
Well, many a year had come and gone before I
reached my goal;
I went at last by P. and O. —instead of through the
hole!
I found the aboriginals, like other people, stood,
And all the white men walking, just as other white
men would.
Yet soon I saw a thousand things my childish
doubts to crown,
And soon I learned their mode of life was mostly
upside-down.
In Europe, as a general rule, the countries that you
meet
Have a microscopic coastline, and an awe-inspiring
fleet;
But dear old quaint Australia, with her countless
miles of coast,
Has a numerous Armada of —two gunboats at the
most.
Ilqr poets don’t wear flowing locks, and velvet coats
and furs,
They breast the bars in Bush hotels, and ride in
long-necked spurs;
The Oxford men don’t lunch at clubs, and dine in
evening dress —
You find them at the shearing-sheds, cooks mostly,
Snore or less!
If I were back, a child again, and thought, poor
little soul,
That if I took the garden spade and went and dug
a hole,
And dug, and dug, and dug, and dug, by sun and
candlelight,
I’d find Australia upside-down—well, wouldn’t I be
right ?
SCOTLAND.
W.H.O.
Is Love Confest?
Is Love confest when Springtime flows,
Or when the breeze of Summer blows,
When clear in ev’ry bush is heard
The merry note of mating bird,
And sweetly flusht is ev’ry rose?
Or when the violets shy unclose,
Or when the Night her garland shows,
And starry deeps are softly stirred,
Is Love confest?
Not so! But well the lover knows
That when the color comes and goes,
When lips have lost the ready word,
And eyes with sudden tears are blurred,
And all the cheek with passion glows,
Is Love confest.
QUEENSLAND.
F. BORN.
You.
A bird on a bush, waking,
Brush’d its downy wing with its beak,
And the silence was just a sound like the fall
Of the eyelash on your cheek.
The step of a young stag
On a mossy bank I heard,
And the echo was like the wave of your hair
When the south-wind stirr’d.
But your open lips on my heart,
Naked to feel its bliss,
Was neither a silence nor yet a sound,
But just a kiss.
N.s.w.
MARY FITZMAURICE GILL.
The Merry Christchurch Dances.
There is a waltz entrances
My soul with mystic might;
Beneath its dominance is
A sea of old delight,
Through whose moon-lit expanses
A tide of memory swirls —
Ah ! merry Christchurch dances !
Ah ! bonny Christchurch girls !
My heart, as in a trance, is
Raised to a heaven’s height—
And distance but enhances
That charm of faces bright:
In ringing resonances
The merry music skirls ;
Ah ! merry Christchurch dances !
Ah ! bonny Christchurch girls!
Then youth’s exuberances,
And longing infinite,
Shone like the conquering lances
Of squadrons bold in fight;
Then boyhood’s shy advances,
Set girlhood’s heart in whirls:
Ah ! merry Christchurch dances !
Ah ! bonny Christchurch girls !
Ah! dainty sweet romances
That blossomed in a night,
And led to happy chances
We knew to seize aright !-
For young love’s governance is
A sway of eyes and curls —
Ah ! merry Christchurch dances !
■ Ah! bonny Christchurch girls!
But youthful countenances
Grow lined, and hair turns white;
And full of dissonance is
The tune once true and light;
And Fortune’s look askance is;
And Youth his silk sail furls —
Ah ! merry Christchurch dances !
Ah ! bonny Christchurch girls!
Lost Lady Mine! Your glances
Were lovelier than pearls!
O belle of Christchurch dances!
0 Queen of Christchurch girls!
MAORILAND.
C.


Combi licit ion Couch and Bed.
Size when open, 4ft. x 6ft. 7in.
CHANGED INSTANTLY.
<■*<.< ? « « -v «.
S>sa v-<► ' » V v T V.> It »
iV i. -»- V * A i> v K
CLOSED AS COUCH.
Commonwealth
Patent 12274-.
I JR!
OPEN AS DOUBLE BED.
Cannot get oat of order; is
exceptionally strong and durable.
Just the thing for offices,
small rooms, or where an extra
bed is required.
Invaluable for hotels, boarding-
houses, coffee palaces, and similar
establishments.
Can be had fitted with box, to
act as linen press. Three pieces
of furniture in one.
Elegantly upholstered.
CASH PRICES:
In Cretonne, £4 10s.; in
Tapestry or American Leather,
£5 55.; in Rexine, £6 6s. With
Box, 20s. extra.
Patent Rights held by
MARCUS CLARK & Co. Ltd.
SYDNEY.
ON THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound ; containing upwards of Three hundred
of “ Hop’s ’ ’ best drawings. Full Bulletin size
Price, 21s.
h
UNDER VICE-REGAL
ĥ
PATRONAGE
The Misses Isaacs,
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair-
workers & Dermatologists,
161 KING STREET, SYDNEY, between Elizabeth & Castlereagh Streets.
Transformations from £4/4/- Tails from 7/6. Puffs from 25/- set. Fringes from 7/6.
Telephone 2138 Central. COMBINGS MADE UP.
Country orders receive prompt attention.
The Goldfields Diamond Drilling Co., Ltd.,
339 Collins Street, MELBOURNE. 79 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Boulder Road, KALCOORLIE, W.A.
Diamond Drilling and Water Boring Contractors.
Sole Manufacturers of The Victoria Percussion Drill. Agents for THE SULLIVAN MACHINERY
CO.’S Diamond Drills, Air Compressors, Rock and Air Hammer Drills.
Drill Carbons and Spares for Diamond Drills stocked. Full particulars and prices on application.
WELSBACH AIR GAS MACHINE.
15—30 —50 —100—and 150 Light.
AIR
GAS.
The CHEAPEST
Light on Earth.
1000 Candle
Power per hour
for One Penny.
NO
,V.-. . , 5 - '
Intricate Meters for Measuring the Air.
Buckets to Measure the Petrol.
Needle Float Yalves.
NO
Mercury.
Sight Feed Valve.
Flooding of
Carburetter.
The ONLY Plant which will successfully convert ordinary
Motor Spirit into Gas without the employment of heat.
The Gas is suitable for Cooking and Heating, is practically
odorless, and is absolutely safe —being non-explosive.
Write for Particulars to
Welsbach Light Co. of Australasia Ltd.,
302 Pitt Street, Sydney,
Or Branches— 380 LONSDALE STREET, MELBOURNE.
102=4 VICTORIA STREET, WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Proved to Assist Digestion beyond any Doubt or Question
SQUARE SCHNAPPS
ABSOLUTELY
PURE.
>» ->»
OBTAINABLE
EVERYWHERE.
The Largest Distillers
in the World.
freebooter
brand —-
REOISTeREt)
SqiJARE
SCHNAPPS
IT '5 PPOOUCE
SQUARE HOLLAND
proprietors
HETHEIHArroj msTlufftiK
DEUrr HOLLAND
ABDULLA
CIGARETTES.
Abdullas all day
Keep the doctor away.
Turkish, Egyptian, Virginian.
dmvuvr.
WHOLESALE AGENTS FOR
AUSTRALIA
ħ
On the Road
to Reliability.
!———b——m— -i
“There is no Royal Road to Learning,” the proverb says;
but you are on the Road to Reliability and Efficiency
in Motors if you select any of these :
Daimler
—the favorite of Royalties on the Road. It is used by H. M. th e
King (8 Daimlers), the German Emperor, the King of Spain
and other Royal Personages.
Delaunay-Belleville
The Flower of the
French Automobile
Industry.”
—tile Car of sound British Material and Construction.
F.N. —the product of the factories of the Belgian Small Arms.
SchacHt Motor Buggy —Best
Halley Motor Lorry
The Giant of Com-
merce,” transports a load
up to 8 tons.
Call and Inspect the Models in Stock at our Garage.
DALGETY 8 CO. LTD., 136-138 Phillip St., Sydney


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 32.—N0. Ifi33.
THURSDAY, JUNE 1, 1911.
PIUOK OD.
FORGOTTEN!


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper,
“Australia lor the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleou,
of Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mos-
man, for The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
Ltd., at the Office of the Co., 214 George-
street North, Sydney, N. S. Wales, Aus-
tralia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES : Business, 1384 Central.
Editorial, 257 City.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
I’er Annum . . .. f 1 6 0
Half-yearly .. .. .. 0 13 6
Quarterly .. . . .. 0 7 0
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin
posted regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communica-
tions to be addressed to William Macleod, Manag-
ing Director.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to Tiie Bulletin would oblige the
paper {and, to an extent, themselves ) by taking
some care as to methods of address.
Business letters {with regard to subscriptions, ad-
vertisements, etc.) should in no case be addressed to
the Editor, but to the Manager. To send them to
the Editor is to invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters
to anyone by name. “The Editor, The Bulletin,” is
the proper superscription for “copy.” Delay, and
even loss, is sometimes caused by addressing to per-
sons instead of officials. The person may not be
there; the official always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” col-
umn all contributions submitted, whether in the
form of Political, Social or other Articles, Verse,
Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially accept-
able), Paragraphs, Letters or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS.
when the address is specified and stamps are en-
closed. But no MS. will be returned, or preserved,
unless these conditions are observed. When MS. is
forwarded without stamps for return it will be un-
derstood that the copy is to be destroyed if not ac-
ceptable. Personal applications for return of MS.
cannot receive attention. The Bulletin desires,
further, those sending MS. to distinctly understand
that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea,
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any pic-
ture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
The Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on
account of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch {wholesale
agents) to Victoria, West Australia, Queensland,
Tasmania and. New Zealand; and on account of
Messrs. Atkinson and Co. and Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide
—at fi/6 per doz. nett.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the , arrival ,of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British
Australasian Office, 115 High Ilolborn, London,
W.C.
South Africa.— The Central News Agency, Cape-
town; Dawson and Son, Capetown; The Central
News Agency, Durban, Natal; and others.
Vancouver.— Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver
8.C.; Irvine and Forsyth, 1/1/1 Hastings Street;
Norman, '. Caple and Co., Stationers.
U.S.A.—lsserlis A., Seattle, Washington; Inter-
national News . Agency, Los AngeVes; Chicago News-
paper Agency, 110 Madison Street, Chicago.
Egypt! —-The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port
Said.
Hong Kong.- —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Ilong Kong.
Singapore. — Messrs. John Little and Co.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size
6%in. x 11/in., will be forwarded on application.
Larger sizes can be supplied if desired.
THURSDAY, JUNE 1, 1911.
THE NUDE IN POLITICS.
Ever since the first court dressmaker or-
dained that the beauty of the human form
should be enhanced by a string of shark’s
teeth and a few daubs of green paint, it has
been generally recognised that the simple
nude is objectionable to our advancing civi-
lisation. Prehistoric sumptuary laws made
it penal for any warrior of the tribe to go
abroad wearing less than one feather, or for
any lady to be seen in public without the
seemly and sufficient covering of a bone ring
worn modestly in the nose; and the up-to-
date civic authorities of pork-packing Kan-
sas City have within the present year put
the keystone in the arch of modern decency
by decreeing that the classic statues in the
public park shall be henceforth draped in
garments of spotted cotton. The world’s
sense of shame has been progressive, and, in
proportion as city slums, millionaires, beef
trusts, shipping rings, and other respectable
institutions have grown, the objection fo the
nude has increased. In really civilised parts
of the world small household dogs have shared
in the delicate fastidiousness of their mis-
tresses, and there is reasonable hope that
the day of the naked cow and the ungar-
mented horse is fast drawing to a close.
Everywhere the crude handiwork of Nature
is being adorned and improved upon. Shoul-
ders, waists and hips are wrought to Parisian
design ; and at the present moment there is a
wild outcry against the fashionatle heresy
which dares to suggest that the human fe-
male is bifurcated, and possessed of nether
limbs which extend above the feet and ankles.
The glorious recognition of the fact that
manhood consists mainly of tweed, and wo-
manhood of silk and cotton, has come to us
in all its fulness. We think of the crude
beginnings of respectability in the days of
bead necklace, flowing whisker, and tawny
leopard skin, and we rejoice to think that
even the wild persons who disport them-
selves in the ocean surf wear a hundred per-
cent. more clothing than all the gods of
Olympus could have mustered in their en-
tire wardrobe. By what a wealth of textile
wonder is the washerwoman of to-day better
than the goddess of old time !
Yet there are persons among us—persons
whose natural inclinations run counter to
all forms of respectability—who insist on
perpetually bringing to our notice the shame-
ful fact that Nature produced us wfithout any
clothes at all, and that a vague, fantastic
thing which they call truth is closely asso-
ciated with equally vague sublimities called
art and beauty. Although, out of respect
for the predilections of the police, or sensi-
tiveness to the cold airs of Heaven, these
people themselves wear clothing, they are
constantly producing statues and pictures
which are as innocent of all attempts at de-
cency as a rose-bush or a domestic cat. In
the face of the general view of civilised hu-
manity, they are ready to declare that the
human form in all its nudity is more beauti-
ful than a Paris gown, and a simple maiden
in her nothing-at-all more exquisite than a
millionaire bride standing mystic and won-
derful in the modern equivalent of white
samite. Fortunately for the race, these peo-
ple are not to be taken too seriously. By
the great dietary law which ordains that the
first need of an artist’s soul shall be bread-
and-butter, it is possible to keep the most
riotously and impossible unrespectable person
within the bounds of convention. Cash is mas-
ter of the situation, and with financial bars
can shut out the objectionable in art. Even
pictures must be sold, or the painter will
starve, and respectability holds the purse,
and jingles gold coin as the reward of clothed
and decorated virtue. The picture buyers,
the police and the dressmaker oppose their
taste and zeal to the fantastic crudeness of
the artist’s pursuit of truth, and the result
is a splendid economy of skill, purity of con-
ception, and grandeur of treatment. So
complete is the success of civilised respecta-
bility in its influence upon art that there is
every reasonable hope of the nude being ban-
ished from all public galleries; and it is
even possible that ancient pictures of estab-
lished reputation may be improved by the
addition of neck-to-knee costume, in keeping
with modern thought and the proprieties.
Australia, while in the main sharing the
general reprobation of the nude in actuality
and art, is sadly behind the more civilised
communities in other respects. To call a
spade a spade has long been the rude and
simple custom of the inhabitants of this
country ; and not only do we describe horti-
cultural implements in terms of the nude, but
our bareness of language is such that we use
adjectives which suggest by inference that we
are not content to have ideas devoid
of all covering, but that we con-
sider it necessary also to skin them and
lay bare their veins and arteries. Austra-
lian speech uses no draperies to conceal Aus-
tralian thought. It does not follow the
mode of Paris or London. It is naked and
unadorned as Athene when she met the
gaze of Tiresias, or a Maori chieftain lead-
ing a halca. The thing is to be deplored, and
the more so that our citizens seem to take a
pride in their own lingual depravity, and to
glory in the fact that but for a sulphurous
exclamation or purple adjective they ex-
press themselves with the same unpolished
rudeness as may be found everywhere in the
works and activities of Nature. In a word,
the Australian loves language in the nude,
and his artistic or uncivilised soul looks with
contempt upon the frills and flounces which
adorn the lisping tongues of polite peoples.
But the Australian lack of respectability
is shown in yet another department of ac-
tivity. If there is one sphere in which
civilised humanity loves dress and adorn-
ment more than another it is amid the show-
rooms and ribbon-counters of politics. There
is in other lands an unwritten rule of public
decency that political ideas may masquerade
in coat of mail, robes of imperial purple, red
cap and peasant’s blouse, puritan toggery
of loose and baggy homespun, or conventional
bell-topper and frock coat, but that they
must not under any circumstances go stark
naked. In Australia, on the other hand,
they parade the streets morning, noon and
night with no more to cover their shame than
is worn by the average telegraph-pole or cab-
horse. You meet them thus in public bars,
capering on public platforms, invading the
homes of the people, and even (though on
such occasions they usually wear at least a
gum-leaf) drinking afternoon tea in other-
wise most respectable drawing-rooms. The
delicacy of older lands is wholly absent. A
proposal which in England would wear a
swelling crinoline of precedent, overlaid with
yards and yards of silky platitudes, and a
high-necked blouse of oratorical evasion,
goes abroad without so much as a bit of red-
tape round its waist. The reform which in
America would wear the cap of Liberty, the
corsets of the Declaration of Independence,
and an apron of stars and stripes, will trip
from the Leeuwin to Cape York, with no
more on than a winter morning wears after
the fog has lifted. The shocking state of
affairs is tolerated by all parties, and the
nude in politics is thought no more of by the
average citizen than the nude in geology is
regarded by the man of science. Even the
noble Tory is caught in the vortex of the
people’s shame. His old rags of decency
have one by one been discarded, and he has
ceased to hide the fact that he pulls strings
and rolls logs for the good of his order and
the health of his purse. Thus, when the
party of reaction required to buy votes to
defeat the people’s will at the recent Refer-
enda, who suggested that any secret should
be made of the matter? The votes were
wanted, the cash was available, and what
good end was to be served by disguising the
nefarious thing in theatrical garments, or
pretending that the money was needed to fit
out a new coffin for the corpse of sainted
Methuselah? Heedless of naked shame,
the printed request for subscriptions went
abroad, and when the necessary coin re-
sulted, it was spent in open daylight,
less who might see the undraped rotundity of
the fat thing it represented. The most that
it was allowed to do was to keep the shady
side of the street, and hide in doorways from
the full view of passing trams.
But the nude in politics reaches its deepest
depth and barest display within the ranks
of the Labor party. There it has full scope
and freest play. Should a statesman at-
tempt to wear a collar of individual prejur
dice, or carry an umbrella to hide a little
personal ambition, there are Trades Councils
and P.L.L. Conferences and doughty artists
in Nationalism who will tear away every
shred of decent disloyalty, and hardly leave
him so much as a blush to cover his abashed
cheek. The awful immodesty of it all does
not appal them in the least. They will have
a square thing ; and the square thing which
they seek is naked reality in purpose and
action. While respectable politicians of
other lands prefer round things that will
turn and roll easily, Australian workers in
the political nude have set their hearts upon
that old disreputable notion called truth.
Often their vision is a trifle crooked, and ob-
jects get for the moment out of focus, so
that a respectable falsehood dressed in
theatrical tights is allowed to pass. Such a
production was the swindle of Yassberra,
with its imaginary wetness where the water-
courses are as dry as the tears of Beelze-
bub. Labor was tricked and deceived by an
optical illusion; but once it really finds out
the nature of the thing that was foisted upon
it, there will be a row like that of several
beer-astonislied elephants dancing on the red-
hot lid of hollow Tophet. The shame of
Labor and the degradation accompanying its
rule in Australia are subjects almost unfit
for polite print. The great respectable forces
of society—plunder and monopoly, for ex-
ample—gather their skirts about them in
deadly fear. Who knows how long they will
have any skirts left to hide them from the
gaze of an unpitying continent? If the
practical studies of Labor artists in the
nude should continue, there will scarcely be
one thing left with enough decency to appear
other than it is. The people, fed on crude
truth, will be unwilling to accept the most
ancient and orthodox falsehoods in econ-
omics; and the nation, shorn of all the deli-
cate frauds and romantic shams which made
the past joyous with hunger, may sink at last
in a slough of contentment, patriotism and
prosperity from which there can be no re-
covery.
AMERICA’S MISTAKES AND AUS-
TRALIA’S LESSONS.
From an American lawyer who happens to
be in these parts on business :-
During the late campaign I was repeatedly urged
to express views on your Referenda proposals. I
thought it the height of bad taste for an American
to intrude himself at such a time ; and, moreover,
many questions, the result of your own development,
had to be : understood and can best be settled by those
who, through mature study and born pride of
country, can truly feel and determine them. It may
not be amiss now, however, to deal with con-
ditions you will have to determine, as they appear
to an outsider in birth and education, if not in ap-
preciation and affection for your country and its
great destiny.
The greatest question before the United States
to-day, though not spoken of generally, is the
gradual necessity of closer co-operation, a more logi-
cal system of laws, the making technically of a nation
as it is in all ways in spirit. Most of our problems,
the most serious ones, arise from the way the
country, like Topsy, first grew up; and while im-
provements have-taken place in all manner of human
endeavor, the machinery of the law remains cum-
bersome and out of touch with the needs of the
country and modern civilisation. Unification is cer-
tainly the ultimate ideal, both sentimental and
practical—“ One Country, One People, One System,
One Economy.” This cannot be attained in a day,
but with bloser relations in business. and family
connections, it beconies more apparent and more a
necessity, and the older trammels are more irksome.
First and foremost we are united against the outside
world, but how within? The law’s differences
amount, in the aggregate to a vast injury and in-
justice, and endless duplication and expenditure. A
note good hree is worthless there; land laws compli-
cate the making of wills and transfers, and lead to
endless litigation ; residents of one State are in law
aliens of another; and subject to endless annoyances;
divorce laws are notoriously at variance, and lead to
endless family and estate complications. The various
systems and courts enable petty dealing and delay
amounting to gross abuse, and sometimes travesty
of the law: “promotions” permissible in certain
States, by lack of■ understanding simply “gull” the
residents of others. Taxation runs riot, and schemes
of evasion are as plentiful as autumn leaves.
And then there is that very modern and important
question of corporations. The United States of
America, itself a civic corporation, with its presi-
dent, a Board of directors and heads of departments
and employees, is unable to cope with the littlest of
any of the corporations in any State, being powerless
in many and essential directions. Each State has its
own corporation laws, each vies with the other, each
in turn can govern all others doing business within
its boundaries. But there comes the great theory of
comity of States; in other words, what you can do
to me I can do to you, so nothing happens. But
above all, the littlest company in any State is, in
many essential regards, free from the United States
as United States. True, great bodies like the inter-
state Commerce Commission, do great good and are
the means of restraint, but they are very cumber-
some, and do not reach the pith of the question,
which is that the U.S. should be the greatest cor-
poration, and its power and machinery invocable
by the simplest citizen anywhere. To avoid long
and involved a principle of law is re-
ferred to which may make the point of View plain.
A document in order to govern or cancel another
must be of equal or greater weight. If you make
a power of attorney you cannot go to the telephone
and cancel it. You must issue a cancellation or a
new power under all the ceremonial of the first, or
there would be no safety to anyone. The test is
simple. You can apply it. How much power do
you want to give? If you give none, chaos will re-
sult, as it actually has resulted in the U.S. The
question of “How much?” must be determined from
time to time, but always in one direction.
Let me say here this is no anti-Trust brief. Great
development must come through great use of wealth
and brains. If certain things do not please you, say
so plainly. If others seem wrong, say so. But I
have yet to act for a corporation which would not
welcome plain, just laws, a full knowledge and per-
fect security in undertakings once begun. I could
multiply examples—almost numberless instances —
of great embarrassment and wrong resulting from
loose or conflicting laws, not only to the corpora-
tions involved, but to innocent investors and others
dealing with the corporations. You can have no
greater boon than sane, simple and just corporation
laws, and a steadfast policy—directed as much
against crime or semi-crime as you wish, but drawn
and carried out with one definite policy. The pre-
sent of your country is in land and its products;
but if you are to grow great you must use your raw
material, you must build up your industries, give
your growing generation something besides Govern-
ment office or billets to look forward to; and to
keep them here and to meet the markets of the
world you must have a foundation so stable and just
that work wiU proceed here and not elsewhere. The
great danger at home has been in the competition of
States, and in the- different laws administered by dif-
ferent courts. Looked at from a purely unsenti-
mental, financial point of view, the multiplication of
expenses of administration is in many directions un-
warrhntable. No business house could stand it;
and it is not to be wondered at that no Government
is out of debt.
But the problem is greater than that. Local sen-
timent extends frorii your : residence section to the
town, to the country, to the State and nation.
And much that is good in that should be preserved,
always bearing in mind the greater object—the up-
buildjng of the nation as a nation. Time-added
facilities and inventions and family ties all go to
that end. But, with all that, certain things are
essential to good government, peace and economy.
And many of the things that should be done can be
done—equality of laws, one judicial administration,
and one system of taxation, and, above all, of de-
velopment.
* * * *
A word about State rights. There are, strictly speak-
ing, none. The history of States is merely one of tem-
porary necessity, due to physical conditions and de-
ficiencies of means of travel and communication.
In the U.S. the 13 colonies were separated by forests,
vast tracts, great rivers; everywhere the Indian and
many other dangers. Men gathered together for
their own protection and for convenience. Boun-
daries were mostly unknown, vague and undeter-
mined. It was impracticable to govern from a cen-
tral spot. To-day the balance is gradually, but
surely, the other way; and what rights the States
gained by self-development are, as I see it, merely
the right not to be sacrificed, hampered and held
back by any new system or development of govern-
ment.
Australia has an immense future. You and our-
selves are one by many ties, endeavors and aspira-
tions ; you and we are both profoundly interested in
the Northern and Southern Pacific questions. A
close study in the United States, by a committee or
Board, of conditions there, and a free discussion
with the people as a jury, but with v fuH facts and
up-to-date facts, would help wonderfully in your
avoiding our mistakes, and in a mutual understand-
ing. I have travelled much in my own country, in
my continent, and in Europe, and nowhere have I
seen greater courtesy—“from the inside out,” as we
say—nor more splendid open-mindedness, good spirit
and clean grit; and I think a permanent commis-
sioner in the States would be of inestimable value
to both countries.
THE TORY: WHAT SHOULD WE DO
WITH HIM?
“H. Singemoine” calls for violent meas-
ures:- —
One of the curses of modern times, responsible
directly or indirectly for all sorts of disasters, from
low wages to Peter Bowling, is the Tory. He
exists in two forms—the bad and the hopeless.
The hopeless Tory is being gradually silenced, if not
exterminated, by the spread of education; yet he is
still to be noted occasionally in the smoking-rooms
of big hotels, clubs, squattages, and so on. He is
not only opposed to every legislative or other change
that is projected, but hates all the reforms that
have been accepted by the world since he first began
to take notice. There are Still a few elderly dod-
derers who curse bitterly whenever they are reminded
that the Mother State is part of the Australian na-
tion, instead of being a Colony with a military
force of its own, and hence capable of declaring
war against the hated upstarts on the other side of
the Murray. The least vestige of an excuse serves
to evoke from these deplorable people lawless cries of
Secession, Civil War and Revolution. A secession
movement, with all its attendant bloodshed and
rapine, was seriously threatened by the leaders of
Toryism in N.S.W., in the event of the Yassberra
plot or swindle being defeated; and only the other
day Bruce Smith, M.P., offered the Commonwealth
the choice between a “No” vote on the Referenda and
Revolution. Many of these, people would replace
Australia’s- system of Government-owned railways
with the Private Enterprise railway curse, from
whose toils Britain and America are striving to
escape. Also they--would wipe out our existing in-
dustrial legislation, substitute- workhouses for old-
age pensions, reintroduce fogging for petty theft,
and generally get back to the good old days when
hardly anyone washed, and there were no drains,
and the member of the lower orders who knew how
to read was regarded by his betters with mingled
suspicion and dislike.
* * * «
This whole-hog variety of Tory is too stupid and
futile to do the cause of progress much damage. In
fact, his tendency is rather to reduce the Conserva-
tive attitude to absurdity. And, anyhow,- he-repre-
sents but a small fraction of his party, being vastly
outnumbered by the more calamitous species which
wastes no time repining about the reforms that
have arrived, but concentrates his energies on hold-
ing up the changes which threaten in the immediate
future. In this pursuit the amount of lying he
does in the course'of-a year is calculated to shock
Ananias, and the swiftness he displays in leaping
from one untenable position to another outrivals
the speed of the wild antelope. As recently as a
decade ago he forecasted commercial ruin and the
flight of Capital - if the Arbitration principle were
introduced here. It was introduced, and Commerce
has done excellently ever since. To-day the Tory
has ceased to assail Arbitration. Instead, he dis-
charges at the New Protection all the old gags that
did service in the Anti-Arbitration campaign—the
piffle about “reckless experimentalisin’’ and “fool-
ish attempts to interfere with the unalterable law
of supply and demand,” and so on. The Melbourne
Argus opposed minimum wage legislation in Vic-
toria 12 years ago, on grounds that it would be
“disastrous to the aged worker.” It has long since
ceased opposing a minimum wage in the interests of
the laboring classes. But it joined with the Sydney
Telegraph last month in an audacious attempt to
convince Laborites that the Constitutional amend-
ments asked for by the Federal Government would
mean “financial disaster,” in consequence of lowered
wages to workers. In 1899 Brisbane Telegraph
remarked, in the same spirit: “It [viz., an agita-
tion against Federation] will cost a little money, but
it is better to pay for Freedom at the price of a
. few meetings than to pay the slave master for ever
afterwards.” The present opponents of Unification
never mention that tfiev are proved liars as to the
effects ol Federation; all the talk is of the freedom
and prosperity of which the Commonwealth will rob
itself if it adopts the form of government under
which Britain has done very well for years and
years. If persistent public lying of the most cynical
kind does a country the damage that the moralists
say, the Tory- has a lot to answer for.
The list of beneficent measures which the modern
Tory has violently opposed, and afterwards swal-
lowed, is stupendous. Less than two years ago one
of the hall-marks of the Anti-Progressive was a rabid
objection to an Australian Navy. Most school-
children can recall the things that were said about
this proposal by political self-advertisers at the Em-
pire Day functions of a year or so back—scornful re-
marks concerning “mosquito fleets” and the grotesque-
ness of Australians aspiring to own real battleships
like the inhabitants of grown-up countries. Those
were likewise the days when the Tory orator and
the Tory newspaper denounced compulsory service
as “un-English,” and talked of the “curse of con-
scription,” and reprobated the idea of compelling
young men of the “upper classes” to learn the mili-
tary business alongside coalheavers’ children. The
crowd which fought for hired defence is the same
crowd which fought against alien immigration re-
striction, and whose clamors for a colored Australia
are still occasionally heard. It is the crowd which
cheered the wire-netting theft, accepted Geokce
Reid’s Socialistic Tiger as a genuine man-eater, and
has, at various times, opposed Eight Hours Icgish-


tion, Factories, Pure Food and Eavly Closmg Acts,
and both State and Federal Old A o e Pensio
If experience taught the Tory anything he would
be less dangerous. But it d°esn t. immediately
to o be o found gr The Trust
tiins'hfrfbSng To ’ its swiff growth as
EPS 1 iig;
cost of living out of all reason. To the su OH cstion
that the Commonwealth Parliament—which, un
our Constitution, is the only one of s : seven
Parliaments that can deal adequately with Trusts
shall be empowered to scotch these abuses, the io y
presents aTaspeet of hostility, with the customary
old contention that “the time is not ripe. he
Australian manufacturer has had bumper years
late Aided by a tariff which, though weak i n
spots, gives adequate protection in ’
he has piled up inordinate But he has on y
raised his wage-schedule from a Freetrade to a living
basis where he has been ordered to do so by the
State Courts; and not always then. In many m
dustries the State, for a multitude of reasons, has
been impotent to assist the worker, leaving the manu-
facturer on velvet. A simple scheme, designed to
compel manufacturers who profited by the tanir
to pav their employees decent wages, was proposed.
The Tory fought that proposal, and is still fighting
it, as he is fighting a Federal Land-tax, Criminal
Appeal Courts, the Compulsory Notification of Con-
sumption and other deadly diseases, State Gas and
Coal, and a thousand other things whicli the country
needs, and knows it needs. It seems an obwous
proposition that the moment an abuse or injustice
is sighted, the time becomes automa.tiCcilly ripe to
make some attempt to mitigate or abolish it. Also,
it appears reasonable that, in face of an admitted
evil, any likely-looking suggestion for wiping it
out is worth trying. And if these two premises
are admitted, the Tory, to whom they are anathema,
falls immediately into his proper place—a public
enemy.
* * * *
The other day several ordinarily law-abiding citi-
zens were fined in Sydney for obstructing the traffic,
by delivering Referenda speeches in a street. Yet
against the infinitely more dangerous people who, as
a matter of habit, deliberately get in the way of
every reform that is mooted, there is no redress.
Fractious, mule-headed opposition, from this quarter,
to the Factories Apts—as a result of which this re-
form was delayed for years, and, when it did come,
was adopted in an emasculated form in all but one
of the Australian States —brought death and disease
to thousands of workers. It is impossible to esti-
mate the needless misery that was caused to old people
by Tory opposition to State and Federal Old Age
Pensions. Many an innocent man is now in gaol
or in his grave who would be alive and free had
conservatism been able to grasp the necessity for
Criminal Appeal Courts. It is no exaggeration to
say that, in such ways, Tory obstruction has done as
much damage as several wars and a bloody revolu-
tion or two. Logically it is absurd that a State
which sets its legal machinery to work to punish
citizens who delay the passage of a few drays, should
stand inert in the presence of citizens who are
directly responsible for delaying the application of
remedies to innumerable injustices, cruelties and
crimes. When it is remembered that most of the
measures which the Tory opposes are by way of being
insurances on his own life and property (it may be
accepted as an axiom that wherever the Tory suc-
ceeds in averting reform for a prolonged period, he
inevitably loses all, and decorates a lamp-poyt or
block, as witness the case of the Bourbons), it be-
comes advisable, in his own interests, to set about
removing his opportunities for evil. So the time
appears to be ripe when the fact of being a proved
Tory shall be punishable with a fine, or imprison-
ment, or a term in a hospital or an asylum.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Empire, and the Righteous Men Who
Have Rot Made It.
Amid a welter of blither that ascended in Aus-
tralia in Empire Day, an effort of the Rev.
Cakebread, of Sydney, stood out as a monu-
ment of fatuous ignorance. According to
the daily press, he “delivered the address,
basing his remarks on the text ‘Righteousness
exalteth a nation’ (Proverbs xiv., 34).
The occasion, he said, gave a stimulus to the
people of the city to take a wider view of
things. We could think of the heroes of
the Empire, whose names would live. Refer-
ence was made to statesmen who had made
the Empire great. What were the charac-
teristics of men like Gladstone and Salis-
bury?” etc. In selecting Gladstone and
Salisbury as types of Empire-makers the
speaker betrayed that unerring capacity to
fall-in which distinguishes the cleric. If
the average intelligent layman were asked to
name two British statesmen who, in their
respective ways, were the antitheses of Em-
pire-makers and “Imperialists,” he would
prqbably mention Gladstone and Salis-
bury. Neither of them added, of his own
volition, a foot of soil to the Empire. Salis-
bury frankly despised “the Colonies,” and de-
clined, to the end of his days, to have any-
thing to do with “Colonials,” however distin-
guished. The flamboyant spreadeagleism of Dis-
raeli, which found popular expression later
on in some of Kipling’s worst work, and
which has supplied the note for every “Em-
pire” celebration of recent years, was abhor-
rent to him. The dislike of Gladstone —
the greatest of the Home Rulers, the first of
the Little Englanders, and the man who was
known to his generation not as an Empire-
maker, but as an Empire-breaker—was not
like that of Salisbury, intellectual, but,
rather, moral. It was because Gladstone
was essentially “righteous,” and pitiful and
sympathetic to the weak and oppressed,
whether in Armenia, or Africa, or Ireland,
that he made a hopeless mess of that form
of robbery-under-arms which is known as
Empire expansion. Thirty years ago cir-
cumstances impelled him to reach out for the
Transvaal. But his conscience failed him.
He lacked the cold unscrupulousness neces-
sary to consummate the steal, and the grim
business was left to be done 20 years later by
a genuine “Empire-maker.” It is one of
the platitudes of modern world-politics that
the righteous—meaning sincere persons _ of
fine moral fibre —are not satisfactory Empire-
makers. The immemorial type is Joseph
Chamberlain, a sort of sublimated busi-
ness man, as remorseless, unimaginative and
resolute in advancing towards the goal in
view, over broken treaties, dead bodies and
all other obstacles, as any U.S. Trust mag-
nate. Where, as in the case of Australia,
the Empire hasn’t been aggrandised more
or less by accident, the thing has been done
through the agency of men the reverse of
Good. Chamberlain and Rhodes, whose
stark, unyielding attitude over the Transvaal
infamy gave the Empire South Africa, bear
many points of ethical resemblance to
Clive, to Warren Hastings, and to the
politicians who added Canada to the Empire ,
and it will certainly be a politician of their
moral calibre that will ultimately cause
Egypt to be colored red on the map.
The Impregnable Trust.
According to Melbourne Age, “the decision
of the American Supreme Court against the
appeal of the Standard Oil Company means
a matter of some £6,000,000 of a fine. It
is perhaps the largest monetary fine ever
inflicted in a court of law.” This suggests
a stern, relentless process of United States
justice in regard to the Trust curse, which
is directly contrary to fact. The decision
in the American Supreme Court was not
concerned with any fine. True, the Stan-
dard Oil Co. was ordered, years ago, to pay
a fine of six millions sterling. It was
charged in Missouri, under the Sherman
Anti-Trust Act, with getting unlawful re-
bates on the railways, and the vast, impres-
sive fine was imposed by the Federal District
Judge of the State. But the co. took the
case on to the Circuit Court of Appeals,
and without any trouble got the fine quashed.
And there the matter ended. The case
which was adjudicated on the other day
raised an entirely different point. The
Supreme Court was asked to say whether
it is legal for the Standard Oil to trade
as it does, under a multitude of names, a
controlling interest in each co. being held
by the parent co. The Court decided that
it was illegal, and ordered the Trust to
dissolve. But, even as to this matter, the
Supreme Court is bound to be flouted by the
Trust, as every other Court has been.
There are scores of ways by which the order
to dissolve may be defeated. For example,
the Trust may make a show of dissolving,
turn its Board of Directors into a “Council
of Advice.” or what not, and work under
what is knowm as “a gentleman’s agree-
ment.” There is honesty—the honesty that
arises from self-interest —even among
Trusts; and so long as a Trust refrains
from putting an illegal compact into writ-
ing, it may be considered safe. This Ameri-
can case has a peculiar interest for Austra-
lians, since precisely the same things are
happening here, in a small way. Our com-
bines are unassailable in the Courts, so long
as they take the precaution to operate under
“gentlemen’s agreements,” or “honorable
understandings.” They are indissoluble—
though they may be so flagrant that the
veriest idiot recognises them for what they
are —so long as Parliament lacks the power
to point to them, and say : “Enough of legal
quibbling! Those and those are injurious
combines. They must go.”
The Immigrant Scum.
A series of boom articles on immigration
has been appearing in the Melbourne Argus,
in which Canada’s leap in population of 60
per cent, in 10 years has been held up to be
gasped at by an admiring Australia. We
are told to undertake a feverish imitation of
Canada, and raise the population of Austra-
lia to 10,000,000 by the time the 1921 cen-
sus arrives. We are even ordered to exploit
the same fields of immigration; so, naturally,
in the whole 12 columns which the Argus
has printed, not one word is said regarding
the nature of the refuse which Europe is now
pouring into North America —Canada and
the United States alike. In the first eight
years of this century, it is true that Yankee-
land received seven millions of immigrants,
and Canada a million and a quarter; but
what were they? Professor Stephen Lea-
cock, a good and patriotic American, sums
them up thus :
They are in a great measure mere herds of the
proletariat of Europe, the lowest class of industrial
society, without home or work; fit objects indeed
for philanthropic pity, but indifferent material from
which to build the Commonwealth of the future. In
this great change of domicile, the people of the
lowest economic development are in the vanguard.
The Professor calls a good many of them
“ethnological curiosities,” for they contain
hordes of Galicians (who may be seen still
dressed in sheepskins on the railway plat-
form of Winnipeg), Doukhobors (a race of
Russian fanatics who leave their farms to
seek Christ at His second advent, and are
hunted back in droves by the Canadian
mounted police), Poles, Ruthenians, and
Buckdwinians (and the Lord knows what
Buckowinians are). In 1882 the virile
races of Western Europe supplied North
America with seven immigrants to every one
who came from the backward south and east
of Europe. In 1905 the south-eastern
hordes were four times as numerous as the
westerners, and this position is steadily grow-
ing worse. Southern Italy, Poland, Gali-
cia and Hungary are the great recruiting
grounds nowadays; and Australia will be
well advised to keep her hands out of that
mess. To undertake an immigration boom
among the most degraded European races
would be a deadly injury and wrong. We
do not want the illiterate, ignorant, and
backward mobs that America is absorbing.
In Russia, the percentage of illiteracy in the
adult population is 41 per cent. ; in Hun-
gary, 46 per cent.; in Italy, 54 per cent.
Any policy of immigration which takes no
notice of these odorous facts would be a
crime against the Australian people.
♦
Do It Now!
The N.S.W. Decentralisation Commission
handed in its report last week; and, simul-
taneously, the Government’s last shadow of
an excuse for further temporising on this
question disappeared. For half a century
N.S.W. Governments have caused the State
railways to be built and administered, and
the back country to be developed, for the
benefit of Sydney commercial interests. Spe-
cial railway rates, and a studied omission to
connect the southern parts of N.S.W. with the
Victorian railwa.y system, have diverted
mountains of Riverina grain thousands of
miles out of its natural course, to the ad-
vantage of none but the middlemen of Port
Jackson. Railways have been withheld from
the ports north and south of Sydney, with
all the resoluteness that the health authori-
ties show in withholding diphtheria patients
from the general public. The Commis-
sioners’ recommendations are designed to re-
move some of those anomalies. For ex-
ample, the construction of the Finley-Tocum-
wal line, which they favor, will halve the
distance over which the Riverina producers’
grain is hauled for export. That is to say,
it will halve it, if the N.S.W. railway bosses
abandon their present sharp practice of
carrying Riverina wheat to Sydney at a
dead loss- —which is to say, at the State’s
loss —in order to swell the banking accounts
of Sydney wheat-handlers. To link up the
Riverina with the Victorian railway system,
and then cut rates for Riverina traffic on the
railways leading to Sydney, will be equiva-
lent to casting good construction money into
the sea. It is essential, too, for the settlers
of the middle West that a railway should be
run from their district to Jervis Bay. Port
Stephens, likewise, is a priceless natural as-
set which no State that was not run by a
rival port would neglect for a moment. But
the Monaro needs a line to Twofold Bay
rather more insistently than the Yass dis-
trict needs one to Jervis Bay ; and the open-
ing up of Port Stephens is not going to do
any particular good to North Coast dairy-
men and the people behind them, who must
continue to send their stock and produce by
devious routes to Sydney, so long as Byron
Bay and Coff’s Harbor remain boycotted.
Briefly, the Government will need to do
rather more than the Commission has recom-
mended, and it will need to do it in an Aus-
tralian spirit, if it wants to go down to
posterity as the first N.S.W. Administration
which ran things not so much for Sydney as
for the State. Also, it will be wise to
start soon. The Sydney Telegraph’s re-
cent bland suggestion that time should be
taken “to consider whether the plan is ac-
ceptable, in itself and at the price,” is the
worst possible advice from the Ministerial
standpoint. There are folks who take time
to consider the question of putting out the
fire which is menacing their uninsured prop-
erty. But they never do any good for them-
selves.
♦
Transcontinental, or
When Kitchener advised the Common-
wealth that some of its railways were ad-
mirably fitted to help an invader, he said
what many other people thought; for Aus-
tralian railways were built for peace freights
primarily, even if they were also constructed
to help centralisation and the commission
agent. The East-and-West Transcontinen-
tal. designed as much to help against in-
vasion as for land development, must be
built to suit Australia first; and that calls
for the slaughter of what is understood to
be the present intention. The Common-
wealth is to build the line from Port Aug-
usta to Kalgoorlie; from Ivalgoorlie to the
sea the work is to be in the hands of Wes-
tralia, which is to put down a standard-
gauge line by the side of the present narrow-
gauge line from Kalgoorlie to Fremantle.;
Westralian State railway construction has
beaten railroad building by Private Enter-
prise in the West in decreased cost and
rapidity of construction, and to that extent
the Commonwealth’s line is in good hands.
But though that is important, far more im-
portant is the question of the safety and
value of the line from the National (which
means mostly the Defence) point of view.
It is this consideration of safety which calls
for the modification of the present plans.
The narrow-gauge railway comes in from
Ivalgoorlie on the north side of the Swan
River; then, after passing Perth, the line
crosses the river, and so reaches the port at
Fremantle. Thus the destruction by an
enemy of one wooden bridge would isolate
the port from the city, and leave the whole
railway system in mid-air. The Common-
wealth’s wireless telegraphy station, first
decided for the northern bank —which is
really a peninsula—has wisely been removed
to the south bank; and the naval dock
should be placed near it, for up to that site
there is deep water. The broad-gauge
Transcontinental should be built on the same
side, crossing over to it above the Canning
River, and thus coming down in safety to
Fremantle. While thus the National or
Defence cause will be served, the State will
be the gainer also, for it owns most of the
land on the south side. With that country
awaiting development, it would be absrjfd
to build a line close alongside the present
line; and it would be all the more absurd
because, even if it were done, sooner or
later the State’s narrow-gauge system would
have to be extended to the south bank to
carry the wheat and timber traffic which
now gluts the suburban tracks on the Perth
side.
“Lex” puts the case in simple terms: —
The High Court gave judgment last week on the
40-year-old boundary row between S. Australia and
Victoria. In 1847 the Governors of S. Aus. and
Vic., who —under direction from Downing-street—
were the autocrats of their respective territories,
found themselves faced with the necessity of saying
where the State ended and the Province began. It
was decided that the boundary line should be on
the 141st degree of E. longitude. Science was in a
comparatively primitive state in those days, and an
error of two miles was made in the location of the
meridian agreed upon. Twenty years later S. Aus.
suddenly awoke to the fact that it was minus
340,000 acres, which would have accrued to it if the
boundary line, fixed by the old-time officials, had
been accurately demarcated; and it started to agi-
tate accordingly. C.J. Griffith, in giving judg-
ment last week on this matter, routed the plaintiff
State all along the line. After pointing out that
the demarcation was originally agreed upon by per-
sons competent to do so, and that their finding was
accepted by both States, he went on to remark that
a boundary-line so ascertained was presumed to be
correct till the presumption was displaced. Did the
fact of error displace it? No. Effective occupation
of the disputed territory having followed on the
adoption of Wade's and White's line, the Crown
would not use its prerogative to disturb the settle-
ment, and the High Court could not do so. The
only possible way in which the boundary error
might have been corrected after 1847, and certainly
the only way in which it could have been corrected
after 1861 (when the Act 24 and 25 Vic. was
passed), was by agreement between the States con-
cerned. In any case, the C.J. wound up, S. Aus.
would have had no hope at this time of day, since it
had delayed taking action an unconscionable time.
Justices Isaacs. Barton and O’Connor concurred;
Higgins dissented. Judgment for Victoria accord-
ingly. It will appeal to the man in the street as
about the most horse-sense decision that the High
Court has been guilty of to date. Also it wi II mean
a lot to settlers on the disputed territory whose
deeds for land are issued by the Vic. Government,
and who would have found themselves awkwardly
situated had the affair gone the other way.
■+■
Poking into the census figures, the S. M.
Herald finds that “the growth of the metro-
polis is almost appalling. In the case of
the country town, stagnation, if not decay,
is the general rule. Unluckily, many things
Lend to aggravate this tendency. In our
case the railway system might have heen
invented to aggrandise the metropolis, so
surely do all its roads lead to Sydney.”
There is something superb in the effrontery
of that “might have been.” The Herald,
as the mouthpiece of the old Calico Jimmy
crowd for the best part of a century, has
fought for Sydney interests as consistently
as the timid old lady can fight for anything,
and the keynote of that eang’s policy was
to shove and drag everything into Sydney,
first, last, and all the time. There was no
“might have been” about the railway sys-
tem. It was and is. What the lines run-
ning to Sydney missed was covered by
special and discriminating rates, which help
the stagnation and decay of the country
towns. And the Herald hasn’t yet kicked
about those rates, which are a deadly blow
aimed at country manufacturers and busi-
ness men competing with the big Sydney ad-
vertisers. Also when the liiverina wanted
the Finley terminus hitched up to the Vic-
torian railways, and half the distance in
mileage thus cut out, the Herald heard the
late Minister for Works treat the request
with scorn, and this paper doesn’t remember
that the Herald heaved so much as a pebble
at the Government. But it aimed a whole
battery of boulders at the party which tried
to shift that Minister and that Government.
Anti-Sosh (Australian variety) has begun
to talk seriously to Mother. A Sydney Stock
Exchange circular last week called her to
order and reason in this way:—
One of the newest examples of Socialistic folly is
the British Government’s proposal for insurance
against sickness and unemployment. As if the
majority of people in Great Britairi were not poor
enough already, they are to be impoverished still
further by heavy taxation to foster indolence and
malingering! It does not seem to occur to people
that these grandmotherly attempts at charity may
possibly make it harder for the industrious poor to
live, and in that way cause more suffering than they
relieve. By thus increasing the cost of living, in-
fantile mortality is augmented. It is not easy to
estimate how manv young children die from insuffi-
cient suitable food, to pay for each inferior adult
life that is prolonged by such well-meant measures
of philanthropy.
Probably Asquith and Haldane never
knew before what baby-murderers they were.
Still Anti-Sosh (Australian variety) ought
to buck up. Mostly its idea is that the more
British capital this country lays hold of the
better; so obviously the more dreadful the
goings-on of the Socialistic House of Com-
mons and the Anarchistic House of Lords,
the more strenuously will capital fly out of
that country to find a refuge in this.
♦
A breathless cable from England tells us
that Mr. McGowen walked a mile and a-half
in a low-level drain or sewer. It is pleasant
to know that the Australians attending, the
royal and Imperial grovel are enjoying
themselves. The art of prostration is a fine
one, and all but lost in this country. The
splendid salaams of - the nigger-infested
Asian tropics, the humble crawl of Saracen
and Turk, the low and courtly bow of Euro-
pean king-shows, the glorious military
salute of gorgeously uniformed persons
whose doubtful legs are entangled with tlm
scabbard of a glittering sword, the bob of
the village maiden, and the pulling of the
The Clerk.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
For pure self-sacrificing philanthropy, commend
me to the city clerk who votes the Labor ticket.
Being a clerk myself I speak feelingly, and when I
hear of a fellow-clerk voting that way I resent it
as an act of treachery against his own class. —
“City Clerk,” Collins-street, in Melbourne Age.
The unsoiled hand, the sleek, black coat,
The servile, ledger-haunted hours,
The knowledge that my freeman’s vote
Is humbly cast to please "the powers,”
A futile spite against the mass,
A small, weak hate of Labor's side,
These privileges of Our Glass
I cherish with a puny pride.
The sycophancy of the snob,
The day-long cringe, the life-long fear
That I may lose a steady job—
That “job genteel” I hold so dear —
These be the splendid attributes
Of one who yearns to emulate
His master; and all work-soiled brutes
Regards with mean, reflected hate.
Not mine the arrogance of wealth,
No pride in honest labor mine;
But while I still hold life and health
My pet ambition is to shine
A small, pale star that faintly glows
In Fat’s impressive firmament,
The while I earn mere food and clothes,
And help the boss to cent, per cent.
Ambition? E’en my timid soul
Dreams of a day when I shall rule ;
When I may heckle and control
The trembling slaves of desk and stool;
When I shall be of Fat myself
Who now but dangles at his skirt.
A magnate! Armed with pow’r and pelf.
Meet recompense for eating dirt.
I mark the lowly toiler rage.
“Resist!” he cries. “Resist! Unite!”
The while I sue for patronage—
A deferential parasite.
Then to my aid comes Pride of Glass,
I take my stand beside the Boss.
I earn his praise!. .. .Although, alas,
His gain, mayhap, will be my loss.
For who would risk a master’s ire—
That deity who rules my life,
That god who may, in vengeance dire,
Snatch happiness from child and wife?
“Rights !” shout the horny-handed. “Rights !”
The dolts defy the pow’rs that be,
While I watch through the restless nights,
And tremble for my salary.
Oh. what rash madness moves these clods?
E’en my own fellow serfs, alas,
Speak treason ’gainst the money-gods
And turn black traitors to Our Class.
Our Class! That genteel, cultured band,
Well-dressed, respectable, elite—
The servile mind, the soft white hand —
Patrician class of Collins-street!
Cohorts of Collins-street. arise !
O legions, wake in Flinders-lane!
Let each pale hero recognise
His class, and fight with might and main.
Fight for the Master sturdily!
What though his profit be our loss ?
And let our watchword ever be,
Our Class! Our Billet, and OUR BOSS !
The sleek, black coat, the unsoiled hand,
The proud assertion of the worm.
Behold the Class! Oh, noble band!
Itild, desk-worn yeomen of “The Firm.”
With swagger of the over-dressed.
With meekness of the underpaid,
They flout the plaint of the oppressed,
And stare at Liberty, afraid.
VICTORIA.
DEN.


BEARD’S British = Built Bioscope,
second to none. Sole Agents—Jerdan’s
Ltd., 393 George Street, Sydney. Let us send
yon particulars.*
■ARRINGTONS LTD.,
The Cinematograph
Supply House.
The largest assortment of CINEMATOGRAPHS AND
FILMS always in stock by the World’s best makers.
If vou want to procure a better.supply of Films than
you are obtaining at present, tret intocommunication
with us and state your requirements. Our Film
Library is the largest in the Commonwealth.
We are the people to give you satisfaction.
SYDNEY-MELBOURNE—BRISBANE—ADELAIDE
Motor Car Repairs.
Promptly, Efficiently,
and at Reasonable Rates.
INVINCIBLE MOTOR
CONSTRUCTION CO., LTD.,
Works: WOOLWICH DOCK, SYDNEY.
SYDNEY Office and Showroom : 35 PITT STREET.
MELBOURNE : 519 LITTLE COLLINS STREET.
ADELAIDE : BANK STREET.
Franz Josef
Lager Beer
SparKling,
Refreshing,
Exhilarating
and Pure.
Franz Josef possesses the true Lager quality
and character, being sharp, clean, and of
light gravity.
yokel’s forelock —all have departed from the
laud where men become intoxicated with
the breath of eucalyptus, till they elect
Labor to place and power. Still, a Corona-
tion is a gilded function, and one which can-
not well be attended standing erect. Even
an Australian must bag the knees and other
sections of his pants if he attends one, and
the pride which kept his eyes fronting the
dawn and the hatpins of Maky must be
duly abased. Mr. McGowen is evidently
getting into training. A low-level sewer is
an excellent place in which to shake off the
dust of arrogant manhood. It would hardly
be possible to get lower down; and by the
time James comes to fall in adoration be-
fore the Imperial bootlaces of the most
gracious George he should be thoroughly
expert in the act of ordering himself lowly
and reverently before his betters. To medi-
tate among the tombs may be good, but to
contemplate the ways of humanity from
the vantage ground of a London sewer must
be one of the very finest tonics for mortal
pride.
On the arrival of a new Rubber Stamp:—
The staging of Excellency Sir John Fuller in
Melbourne last week was not an effective show.
Throughout the several tableaux, one had a painful
impression of two or three Fat and Important per-
sons straining to the point of an apoplectic seizure
in their heroic effort to give the whole business an
atmosphere of tremendous significance. The big-
barrelled brigade, with the Argus as the barrel or-
gan, deems it necessary to make a jubilant to-do
over new Governors fresh from the hand of Majesty.
These latter stand for the Imperialism that is
sourly anti-Australian, for extreme “Englishness,”
and, directly or indirectly, for most of the preroga-
tives, pretensions, privileges and perquisites of
Class. Hence the need of swelling up the Imperial
nominee, the clamorous insistence on the good man’s
consequence, and the purple efforts to make Public
Indifference look like General Rejoicing.
There was a time when Melbourne people made
flocks and herds of themselves to witness the landing
of a Governor. Sir John Fuller’s advent com-
manded the attention of a few unemployed women,
and sundry money-grubs, politicians, aldermen, and
officials. The “great bulk” of the metropolis lifted
its Paris hat reverently, but the big majority scarcely
troubled to turn its head as Sir John jingled from
point to point, where ruthless mayors were lurking
to pounce on their prey. He encountered 10 of
them, and, after being dragged at their heels for
four hours, reached cover at Stonington, and the
ceremony was ended. Victoria had been duly pro-
claimed Fuller’s earth for a term of years.
♦
The average Tory paper’s capacity for tell-
ing the thing that is not true is only equalled
by its ability to bowl itself out every innings.
Thus, on May 9, the Argus scare-headed an
article thus: “Shortage of Farms. De-
mand exceeds Supply. Prompt Action Re-
quired.” The demand, that is, of coming
settlers and land-hungry Victorians. Yet
for years this same Argus has been shriek-
ing and puffing that there was no need for
any compulsory resumption, as the big
holders were cutting up their lands into
blocks without waiting for Government in-
tervention. In fact, the big holders were so
afraid of Labor domination that they were
realising in urgent haste, and taking them-
selves and their capital out of the country.
Now the same Argus says this tvas all bun-
kum, and that the big landlords are holding on
for an increased price on account of the in-
creasing immigration. The Argus idea, of
course, is that the State should pay that in-
creased price quick and lively, and thus
fasten a crushing load on the shoulders of
the newcomers. The small native or immi-
grant land-hunter doesn’t matter, as long as
the Argus can further fatten its friend the
fat landlord. So naturally it doesn’t even
whisper that, if the present land-tax isn’t
keen enough to do its work—and that is
what the Argus statement amounts to —it
should be sharpened up a bit.
“Mallarapoonie” on the large question of
“living white”: —
“Ecla” (B. 20/4/T1) uses some torrid language
on the subject of “living white,” but gets no nearer
the root of the matter. Like a lot of other people, he
fails to put forward a remedy for Chow cooks,
Mongolian bakers, Monkey washerwomen and Hindoo
pedlars.
It will be agreed that the case of the yellow agony
in the kitchen is worst. Now, as a matter of plain,
bald fact, there is a lamentable scarcity of good
white male cooks throughout the length and breadth
of this continent; and until some new system of or-
ganisation becomes the vogue, whereby a supply of
good white chefs may be imported, begotten, in-
vented, or otherwise come by, the yellow evil will
continue to flourish. In Australia at present there
is no system of technical training in cookery for
male persons worth speaking of; no organisation of
culinary skill worth a darn; no cooks’ union that
seems to count; no encouragement of cooks in any
way; no nothing. Also, no one deliberately starts
out to breed cooks, neither do they grow on.gum-
trees. Cooks just happen. And they don’t happen
often enough.
The Yellow Peril must be gradually driven out by
the demands of white workers for his job. I move
that the question be now put, and that all hands
don’t speak at once. Who wants a cook’s billet?
Is that dead silence I hear around me?
That is the position. The business is to remedy
it. Meantime a. Pong cook or baker is better than
no cook or baker. But let the white cooks of Aus-
tralia organise and hold their heads higher; let
them register as an trades’ union, and let
every duly qualified man holding diplomas for
sobriety—and meekness—apply for work through
any local union, be it in Croydon, Cloncurry and
Ravenswood or elsewhere, and the chrome excre-
scence will begin to go out with a bang and a smell
of burning joss-sticks.
«.
On the Cow Slavery scandal:—
In the beautiful Ulawarra district of N. S. Wales,
a cocky, whose cream cheque is £BO for the month,
employs a family—father, mother, and five children,
ranging in age from eight to 18 years—and gives it
a whole £l4 monthly for its services! It should
be worth £4O at least. One family, getting £l5
for the four weeks, stayed with a cocky prince for
a fortnight only. The other day Mr. Cocky remarked
that the family was too dashed lazy for anything.
They had been used to turning out at 4 a.m. i That
didn’t suit him; his milkers had to be out in the
yard by 3.30, so as to have the juice to the train by
seven. He remarked further, that such people could
never expect to get on in the country. Writer knows
a family of eight grafting for £l2 10s. a month;
but he is not surprised, as that family has been in-
termarrying ever since the district was settled, and
has, in consequence, no better sense. All the same,
it is a howling shame to take a mean advantage of
such people.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Jack and the Beanstalk.”
Royal “ The Dollar Princess.”
Criterion “The Gay Gordons.”
Adkli’ui “ Under Two Flags.”
Tivoli Rickards' Vaudeville Co.
Palace West’s Pictures.
New Princess’s West’s Pictures.
Lyceum Spencer’s Pictures.
Town Hall Sousa’s Band (till June 3).
Lyric Continuous Pictures.
Colonial (Nos. 1 & 2).. Continuous Pictures.
MELBOURNE SHOWS Poll COUINU WEEK.
Princess’s “Seven Days.”
Her Majesty’s “Our Miss Gibbs.”
Royal “The Woman in the Case.”
Ring’s “ The Executioner’s Daughter.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co,
West’s Palace West’s Pictures.
Glaciarium Tails’ Pictures.
Olympia Spencer’s Pictures
Lyric, Prahran Photo Plays.
Firmly wedged as it is in the affections of
Sydney, the panto, at Her Majesty’s was
able to gaze unperturbed at the efforts of
rival shows on the 24tli inst. The stirring
melodrama of Bruce Smith, M.P., and the
broad comedy work of ’Enley, M.L.A., failed
signally to divert public attention from the
affairs of Mrs. Trott’s imperial-minded Cow
and J. Cannot’s truly regal efforts to in-
gratiate himself with the populace.
** * *
“The Dollar Princess,” still coining money
at the Sydney Royal, has now been joined
by a Dollar Prince, whose other name is
Hugh J. Ward. .T. C. Williamson will leave
Sydney on Monday for the Cold World, and
Hugh J. will then commence to look after
the firm’s business in this section. At
present he is only working on the job day
and night, but the man who, besides run-
ning his own business, has managed to raise
140,000 dollars for charitable purposes in the
past 12 months, reckons that a mere matter
of detail.
** * *
“The Gay Gordons” continues to attract
vast crowds to Sydney Criterion. A new
blade-mange has had to be constructed for
Act 1, and the sandwich “Charlie” was re-
placed by an understudy last week, owing
to wear and tear due to persistent bouncing
on the hard boards; but otherwise the fine
cast remains unaltered.
** * *
“Under Two Flags” continues to crackle
cheerfully at Sydney Adelplii. The man-
agement serves out cartridges so liberally to
Cigarette’s forces that the audience smells
powder almost continuously from 8 till 10.40
or thereabouts. The warm red garments
of the Foreign Legion, and the red-hot sand-
hills of Algeria, are blessed spectacles these
chilly nights, when the flat, frozen draught
slides down between your collar and your
spine like a sword of ice, and your feet feel
like wet tombstones.
** * *
Sousa will shake his stick at his fine band
for the last time in the Sydney Town Hall
on Saturday, June 3. In addition to the
evening performances, matinees are adver-
tised for this (Thursday) afternoon and Sat-
urday ; so there is no earthly excuse for that
dismal thing, the chronic procrastinator. If
that animal doesn’t manage to hear Sousa’s
sirens, before they depart, it had better retire
with its broken crockery name into- a damp
and dmughty cave, and there gnaw the
bones of lost opportunities till Time is thor-
oughly ripe and Eternity is at hand.
-51 c
Eunice and Zena, two tastefully-dressed
girl instrumentalists, are the latest arrivals
at Sydney Tivoli. They manipulate a
variety of sound-scattering instruments, in-
cluding thf piano, violin, coaching horn, cor-
net, military bugle, and a metallic animal
like a large calabash pipe, which buzzes
amiably like a singing fly. The juggling
Perezoffs and the Columbia Comedy Trio
supply the best turns on the programme. The
exceedingly tall, tragic Columbian who stalks
restlessly about the stage, and treats his two
partners with contempt, while singing in
perfect time with them, is one of the most
satisfying figures the Religious Editor has
seen on the Rickardian boards.
x* * *
West’s Sydney picture-houses continue to
star “Henry VIII.”; and you can crowd
into the cosy little Palace these nights, and
watch how the most-married monarch in
English history caught his prey—or some of
it. There have been a few other pic-
ture plays equally great from the spec-
tacular point of view—“ The Siege of Troy,”
for instance —but in “Henry VIII.” you get
a personal interest as well as a spectacle,
for you see actors like Beerbohm Tree and
Bourchier and Violet Vanbrugh, whose
names are familiar wherever Poverty Point
is mentioned in English.
** * *
The J. D. Williams picture theatres are
going to star some English football films
during the next week or two. The big item
will be the English Cup tie—Bradford
City v. Newcastle United—described as the
finest game played in the Cold Land during
the season just ended.
** * *
Hugh Ward having abandoned solo man-
agement, Reginald Wykeham has taken over
the box of tricks, and on Saturday, at Mel-
bourne Princess’s, presented his company of
comedians to a house crowded beyond the
utmost limits of the law. “Seven Days,”
their first play, is essentially a good joke. It
was a sharp notion to take a bunch of curi-
ously-assorted guests, pen them in a quar-
antined house, with a trapped burglar, the
cook’s best constable, and the host’s wife
once removed, and work comical complica-
tions out of the promising materials. The
joint authors are, however, stronger on the
basic idea than they are on hilarious develop-
ments, otherwise “Seven Days” might have
been labelled high grade in this particular
line of American canned goods.
Still, though “Seven Days” is factory-
made, it is funnier than a cricket match,
and more rational than a charade; and there
was .well sustained uproar encouraging to
the management, saving what time a masked
lady wriggled in the Enigma Dance. The
dancer had passionate hands and a fetching
ripple down her spine, and one little spasm
of actual dancing thrown in among the con-
tortions raised happy expectations; but, on
the whole, a masked female fluttering in the
gloom may be set down as an amiable error.
Robert Greig, as the divorced housefather,
whose late wife has come home and taken
cover in a coal-scuttle, is an enlarged ver-
sion of Wilson, who in Sydney was a spry,
staccato sinner in the featherweight division.
Greig makes a courageous attempt, and
doesn’t actually mis the ’bus, although the
efforts leave him scant of breath. Very fat
comedians are funniest in unctuous repose,
with their feet in hot mustard and water —
vide 9000 farces. Mallalieu is an actor
who has raised the natural pose to perfect
negligence; as the young husband he drifts
about comfortably, but is a bland, semi-de-
tached entity. Wykeham’s efforts as an ordin-
ary man of 38 are very like the customary
meanderings of a male person of that age.
Hardinge might get more fun out of Flan-
nigan, the mislaid policeman, but H. Wal-
lace couldn’t very well go further with the
half-baked burglar, who seems to spend the
seven days coursing up and down a chimney
and in and out of an oven. Miss Ruby
Baxter makes the jealous ex-spouse of Mr.
Wilson something of a personality, the sort
of personality any man would be glad to be
divorced from. Knowles, ex-Wilson, has
tender moments, just as a cat’s claw has.
Miss Baxter’s contribution gives a little in-
sight into the soul of a woman in quest of
her nrey, and deserves a better setting. Miss
Maud Chetwynd and Miss Celia Gliiloni are
generous contributors to the night’s joy, and
Miss Flo Redfern provides a rather nice
girl for the above-mentioned, ordinary, un-
deserving man of 38. Wykeham’s season
at the Princess’s is a mere sprint, which will
end next week.
" HENRY VIII" AT WESTS PICTURES.
Henry VIII. (Arthur Bourchier) orders Sir
Herbert Tree out of the film.
Last Satui*day’s dramatic demonstration
at the King’s was “The Executioner’s
Daughter,” served up with the usual sauce
compounded of eloquence and falling bodies.
The principal character is Monsieur Roche,
public executioner to the city of Paris.
Roche is secretive about his trade, and suf-
fers from ague when its nature is explained
to his beautiful daughters. Thereafter he
becomes wildly unaccountable. Banished
by his offspring, he assumes the role of a
prudent phantom flitting in and out to the
pizzicatos of the fiddles. In the third act,
however, he reappears more definitely. The
scene is the prison yard at Rouen, where the
requisites for an artistic execution include a
guillotine, which looks quite capable of bi-
secting a blanc-mange. Here Roche is
asked to execute his daughter, Annette; but
he makes such a fuss about it that the lady
is reprieved by the comic relief. The en-
tire play is a mosaic of such “thrilling situa-
tions.”
* * * *
Roy Redgrave is seen as the hero, Rou-
vell, who submits his beer-drenched soul to
moral ablutions. Felix Marius, “thief and
gambler,” is played by Rutland Beckett;
Bert Bailey is an active servant; while
Temple Harrison is a blue-bloused “tough”
given to covert crime and public prayer. As
a raging executioner Ned Duggan has a
scream of four full octaves, and young Max
Clifton is a sinful johnny w T ho wears a smile
and a fancy wig that don’t seem to have
much to do with the case. Miss Burdette,
as the daughter Annette, has raised elocu-
tion almost to the grandeur of a rite. At
times her articulation' is rather pretentious,
though in scenes of love she has an utter-
ance as sweet as the twitter of birds.
Although “The Woman in the Case” could
easily be compressed into a smart, one-act
curdier, there is no general suspicion that
patrons are not getting their money’s worth,
and last week-end Melbourne Royal was re-
ceiving a good deal of what attention the
public could spare from Imperial pyrotech-
nics, and the rejection and reception of
sundry governors. The drama is an effec-
tive artificiality, and the artifice is as ob-
vious as a gasometer, but nobody seems in-
clined to fret over it. The mother-in-law,
honestly played by Nellie Mortyne, with nice,
comfortable, little middle-aged touches, is
deliberately towed in now and again to work
oft a splutter of Fitch jokes, and then
leave the room. The author sometimes finds
it a trifle awkward to get rid of her, especi-
ally in Act 2, but the ejectment happens
somehow. Likewise Harry Halley’s man-
servant is a subdued object deserving of the
favorable reflection which it didn’t get in a
previous notice.
** * *
“Our Miss Gibbs” is described as an en-
tertainment for “people who are easily
pleased.” An Ibsen or a Shaw drama, cost-
ing one-tenth as much to put on, covering
about one-twentietli of the space Gibbs wal-
lows in, and calling for only a small fraction
of the paint and other materials, is for those
who are entertained with difficulty. This
is like offering a tun of champagne to slake
a moderate. thirst, while setting aside a pint
of stout to irrigate the trained, hardened, and
capricious drinker. In truth, from the
managerial point of view, there’s nothing
easy about “Our Miss Gibbs,” and to the
Melbourne Majesty’s public, which still
revels in it, its prodigality is its main suit.
*■ * * *
Pushed into the Opera House bill on Sat-
urday, the Misses Black and White gave an
acrobatic turn which made up in animation
what it lacked in polish. It was greatly
admired by the congregation, which observed
that Providence had been good to the ladies
in the way of legs. Ivelaine and Ivlimo,
who also appeared on Saturday, are cyclists
whom this paper includes in its list of serni-
demi-stars. Their stock of ginger is small,
and somehow their performance recalls
memories of the days when grandfather was
a boy.
** * *
Sousa and his band open at the Mel-
bourne Glaciarium on Monday, June 5.
* * * -:k
Gregan McMahon’s company of amateurs
makes its first appearances in intellectual
drama at the Melbourne Turn Verein Hall on
June 26 and 29, and July 8 and 6. On two even-
ings the programme will comprise St. John
Hankin’s three-act comedy, “The Two Mr.
Wetlierbys,” and the second act of “The
Critic,” by Sheridan. The other twice the
company will be heard in Ibsen’s “John
Gabriel Borkman.” Tickets for these shows
are procurable from Allans’ or the Book
Lovers’ Library, Gollins-street, or direct
from the Repertory Theatre Rooms, Oxford
Chambers, Melbourne.
** * *
At the Melbourne Glaciarium on Satur-
day the Taits pictured some alleged incidents
in the life of Judas Maccabams. Judas,
according to the film, is a handsome youth
who turns a cold, stony face to the frank
advances of an amorous queen. Obviously
the lady dislikes the boy’s scorn of her vio-
lent passion, and in a moment of pique and
bitter disappointment, reserves him as meat
for the executioner. In the last scene poor
Judas is duly, slain; whereon the queen hurls
herself on his stiffening corpse and sheds
enough tears to float either a liner or a
loan.
** * #
Spencer is now regaling his Melbourne
patrons with the lengthy and very popular
film of "The Fatal Wedding,” accompanied
by the cheerful singing of a juvenile chorus.
There is also the usual batch of imported
pictures, including a humorous “Dr. Cupid,”
which is better than the average, though it
leaves one wondering how such an ugly old
elephant of a father came to have such a
gazelle of a daughter.
* * *
The Adelaide society calling itself the
“Literary Theatre” had one joyous evening
last week, when it produced four one-act
plays, mostly new to Australia. “The Point
of View,” by Gertrude Robins, is all love-
making. and the trying on of a troqsseau,
till it is found that the bridegroom has a
Past reaching right up to the present. Only
hard lying— not the comic, but the deadly-
earnest sort —saves the situation. Lady
Gregory’s “Workhouse Ward” is of the new
school of Irish humor, and chiefly noticeable
for the fact that the two principal characters
are in their little beds from start to finish.
The first of Schnitzler’s “Anatol Episodes”
to reach Adelaide is the one in which Anatol
recalls his many love affairs. The acid fla-
vor tells in every line. Bernard Shaw’s
“Dark Lady of the Sonnets” is even more
so. It would go with any audience, this
audacious episode of unknown W. Shaks-
peare meeting Queen Elizabeth one sum-
mer’s night. William compares her father
with his, to the disadvantage of hers; he


Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
*
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED,
PITT AND KING STREETS, SYDNEY.
FIRE ACCIDENT, EMPLOYERS' LIABILITY, PLATE GLASS, Etc.
Lowest Rates Charged.
'Phone No. 236 Central.
Settlements Prompt and Equitable.
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman.
G. HOWARD POPE, Manager.
Nipped in the Bud.
A cold, cough or influenza can be nipped in the
bud by a few doses of Dr. Sheldon’s New Dis-
covery for coughs and colds. Price Is. Gd. and 3s.*
disarms her by gross flattery, disguised as
impudence; lie carefully takes down any re-
mark of hers which will do for a play, as All
the perfumes of Arabia” (spoken about her
freckles!), and “The rest is silence.’ ( I
will kill someone with that line, ’ says he,)
Also he outlines the plot of two potboilers
he has had to write, “damnable foolishness _
both of them: “called ‘As You Like It
(meaning not as I like it), and ‘Much Ado
about Nothing,’ which indeed it is.” The
rest is a thinly-disguised plea for the modern
endowed or municipal theatre. The acting
of the playlets varied from fair to bril-
liant, newcomers being prominent. Ray
Walsh and Muriel Craigie put up some
natural lovemaking, and were not found
wanting when pathos came in. George
Clarke was an unconventional Irishman, and
Royston Marcus (son of manager Marcus of
the Tivoli) was equal to most professionals
as the careless Anatol. Shaw’s play pretty
nearly “acts itself,” but Frank Johnston and
Dorothea Jacobs did it full justice.
* * * *
The “competitions” just ending at Unley
(suburban Adelaide) have more excuse for
existence than their kind elsewhere; for,
though now swollen, and open to all comers,
they developed out of the competitions of lit-
erary societies between themselves. Every
Adelaide suburb has such a society, steady
in work, and unsparing in criticism. The
supply of competent actors and actresses is
a by-product; what matters is that young
men (and women) learn to write sound
English, and to make a speech without stam-
mering. S.A. Parliament is getting the
benefit of a lot of men thus trained. Nicola
has continued to crowd the Exhibition. His
feats can be simple or incredible. The pub-
lic really prefers the former. When he gets
out of a water-filled tank, or a carefully-
nailed packing-case, there must be “fake”
somewhere; _ but he can, in full view, liter-
ally, buck bimself out of a rope, or even a
strait-jacket, and there can be no fake about
that. The Tivoli bill is very strong. The
Potter-Hartwells leave the house wearied
with applause and laughter, and the Zan-
frellas do balancing and contortion that
would be fine anywhere, but on the top of a
seven-foot pillar a foot wide are amazing.
In pictures, the Empire varies from hansom
cabs to Judas Maccabaeus, and West’s are
getting ready to reproduce Beerbohm Tree’s
“Henry VIII.” .Wondergraph has instituted
a local record, in which Adelaide can see
itself laying a foundation-stone, backing a
loser, or making pointed remarks to a foot-
ball umpire. The Royal is running, for
the Birthday Cup week, “Paid in Full,”
with a powerful cast.. It is first
appearance in Adelaide, but the others are
mostly old favorites.
“ Stony-but-Proud ” : Melbourne has one
really thankful clerk. Without intentional sar-
casm, he wrote to the No Progress press con-
cerning bis happy lot in the employment of a
wool firm, and seriously explained that he bad
“ never worked after 10 o’clock at night ” for his
kee-ind employers, “ and not one Saturday after-
noon.” This is the sort of humble, grateful cuss
whom wild horses would not drag into a Clerks’
Union, and only wild kicks will ultimately shift
out of the way of Progress.
“Vagabond”: Minister for Customs
Tudor’s proposals to check the sale of naughty
books in Australia reminds me of the row in
Wellington (M.L.) some time ago. A bookseller
had exhibited for sale a story winch wrought the
Truly Virtuous to fury and landed the seller
before the Court, where he was fined. I asked
the man who runs my lending library for the loan
of a copy. “No chance,” he said. “Wouldn’t
think of it. Wouldn’t expose it for sale either,”
he continued, “but—l’ll sell you a copy.” And he
reached under the counter. He told me he had
sold out his second consignment and had had to
cable for more, although there had hardly been a
request for it before the local Judkinses gave a
hand. “And when trade gets slack again, he
whispered, “ we’ll draw lots to decide who shall
expose the goods for sale. Then there’ll be a row,
and we’ll pool the fine. It pays.”
The fads of an old identity named Jones :
First, old Dave’s fad used to be to fret to work hard on
the 7th and 13th of the month. Ten vessels went down
on the Australian coast on July 13 (seventh month, too),
1566. The H.M.S. Orpheus had previously perished on
February 7, and, later, the Lord Ashley, Norman by, City
of Foochow, C imbridgeshire, Susannah Cuthbert, Wind-
hover, Corsair, Examiner, Indus and Megaera went down
either on the 13th or the 7th. Ten vessels sank (three on
the same day), each losing seven lives. David has a
fondness, too, for Wavatahs. On June 2, 1864, a Waratah
left Newcastle for Sydney and disappeared. There were
seven aboard. He marks the Dunbars, too. He has
gathered in the Dunbar, the Duncan Dunbar and the
Phoebe Dunbar. But the name Johnson has got Mr.
Jones beaten. Johnson was the only man saved out of
120 in the famous Dunbar wreck. Only one man out of
59 was saved when the Cawarra was wrecked near New-
castle nine .years later. A man named Johnson saved
him. Years before, the cutter Mermaid was lost in
Torres Strait, and the crew was rescued by the Swiftsure.
The Swiftsure’s cap’n was Johnson. This evidently em-
bittered Jones, so he wrecked the Swiftsure ; but the
Governor Beady happened along and saved everyone.
Jones waited a while and wrecked the Governor Ready,
and drove Johnson and the crews to the boars. D. Jones
would have collected the lot, almost for certain, if John-
son hadn’t been there. As he was there, the Comet
called in and salvaged them. Mr. Jones wrathfully and
immediately wrecked the Comet, but the Jupiter hove
in sight and gathered in the combined crews of the Mer-
m id, Swiftsure, Governor Ready' and Comet, with John-
son a little shaken and wet. The overcrowded Jupiter
was just about home when Dav.y made a last despairing
effort and ran her ashore, damaging her so much thatshe
was practically useless, but leaving Johnson with nothing
worse than a bad cold.
The N.S.W. Full Court took a long time
over the. job, but it appears to have arrived
at the right conclusion concerning the local
option vote of 1910, and its bearing on
licenses which, under the 1907 poll, are ex-
piring on a time. compensation. Bung ar-
gued that, in districts where “reduction”
was carried in 1907, and “continuance” in
1910, the last expression of the people’s will
over-ruled the earlier decision —that all pubs
domg business were under review, and took
right to continue from the ballot-box.
Ihe Court unanimously informed him that
each poll was allowed to shoot at its own
birds, and, once shot, the birds were wound-
ed beyond resuscitation. Bung didn’t talk
back at the time, but he proposes to have
a word with the High Court on the matter.
If there be men in Melbourne who can
swallow that abominable decoction (B. car-
toon, 25/5/T1) called methylated spirit, the
Customs. officers, instead of worrying over
an imaginary loss of revenue, should treat
the lunatics with well modulated doses of
D.C.L. wisdom. For redressing abnormal
cravings there is nothing so good as D.C.L.,
the Whisky of the Wise.*
AT POVERTY POINT.
“Percy Furious”: I was diverted by the remarks
of “Vagabond” (B. 25/5/’ll), re the original exer-
cises of Sousa whilst leading his wind-orchestra.
The cheerful “Vagabond” apparently regards the con-
ductor as superfluous. So he is; the German street
band proves it by worrying along without having a
loafer thrashing and prodding the atmosphere while
it blows its exquisite strains with faultless precision
through the swing doors of pubs. It is unnecessary
to repeat here the story of how Wagner on his death-
bed declared that the music of the average German
street band left nothing to be desired, and very
little to be hoped for. The extravagant folly of
threatrical managers in paying the salaries of tim-
ber-waving loafers indicates that the great horde
of unsuccessful dramatists have a genuine grievance;
these ignorant people who run theatres really don’t
know their business. If “Vagabond” likes uncon-
ducted music, or can’t see the difference between it
and the other variety, he must be a happy man, for
the German band is never out of earshot. (I regret
to say it is never within gunshot.) I have my
doubts about “Vagabond” and his travels. I be-
lieve he went to the Town Hall under the impression
that Sousa was a new drink.
“Taree”: If “Brither Scot” was talking by the
book and not by the boards when he said that the
famous clap-trap line, “My foot’s upon my native
heath,” etc., was Helen Macgregor’s, and not Rob’s,
in the play of “Rob Roy,’! all I can say is “Ma
conscience!” The line is put into Rob Roy’s mouth
by Scott, and I have been thrilled by it many a
time, although I forget who had the rendering of it
on the boards. When the redoubtable Rob, who went
by the name of Campbell in the Lowlands, where
his ancient patronymic was proscribed; was return-
ing home to the Highlands, in the company of
Francis Osbaldistone, he resented the term “Camp-
bell” in these ' stirring words: “Do not ‘Mr. Camp-
bell’ me; my foot’s upon my native heath, and my
name’s Macgregor.” This never failed to call forth
the approval of the gods. By-the-bye, “Rob Roy”
used to be revived annually at Princess Theatre,
Glasgow, where it was as popular as a pantomime,
and ran for months at a time. With some of the
“Auld Scots Sangs” it is a splendid piece for the
stage, and I would give a saxpence extra to see it
now.
“Snell”: Do you realise the future of crockery
in dramatic art ? It first dawned upon the cave-
dweller who went home and found his mammoth
steak burnt to a cinder, and his wife talking
women’s rights with the she-troglodyte over the hill,
that a man could best give eloquent expression to
his grief and despair by smiting the rock with horn
cups and drawing-room ornaments of thin flint.
Quite recently a dramatist hit upon the idea of
bouncing fragile utensils on the boards as a means
of accenting profound emotion. Since then the fall
of glassware bn the British stage has assumed
ruinous proportions. At each of three Melbourne
shows visited by me last week—a glorified melo-
drama, ; a vaudeville entertainment and a picture
play—a character under the stress of supreme feel-
ing pounded an article of crockery on the floor. The
time is coming when all theatrical excitement will
be illustrated with plates. One plate for an ordinary
display of peevishness, ranging right up to a crate
of them to give the impression of an awful brain
storm.
. “Bromide”: Australian flicker showmen are miss-
ing fine opportunities to do some good for the
country they are making their dough in, and, inci-
dentally, to Swell their bank balances at the same
time. Nearly every show screens so-called “Cow-
boy” films, made up of foolery, lovemaking, riding
along roads or open country, and much blazing at
the sky with revolvers. By free advertising they
have created a taste for these pictures, of which 98
per cent, are palpable “fakes.” About the best of
them is “Ranch Life in the Great South West,” yet a
much better picture of rough riding, handling of
cattle, etc., could be got in the cattle country of
Australia. In this star “Cowboy” film the horses
don’t buck, they merely pig-root; the bullocks are
no harder to ride than those of Australia; and, as for
tlio steer-throwing and tying, I’d sooner watch an
Australian at work in our own style—riding up
alongside the beast and catching him by the tail and
throwing him —than all the cowboys throwing
lariats and choking a beast into submission. The
showmen have cultivated a taste for “Cowboy”
films; let them set to work to get good pictures of
Australian station life, and, besides increasing their
receipts, they will be showing the people what is
going on in their own land. If they want “action
pictures” let them start out with a party of mus-
terers, and they’ll get all they want—rough riding
galore on real buckjumpers, smart work in collect-
ing the cattle in all sorts of country, excitement
when “cutting out” is in full swing, and wild riding
after the breakaways.
“Cockaigne”: Oscar Asche scores a great success at
the London Garrick with “Kismet,” a translation from
the German; The plpt is an accumulation of Arabian
Nights business, witli a long east and heaps of gor-
geous spectacle. Asehe’s part gives scope for all his
talent, both in the Christopher Sly and Othello line,
farcical and tragic. Grimwood is well fitted with a
grim tyrant; Lily Brayton shines fairly. Souper
now at the Melbourne Royal, in the “Woman in the
Case, is replaced by Webster in “Kismet.” Souper
did not half like that “jab” he got from Count Han-
nibal s broadsword in Sydney. Let the supes re-
ceive the hacks.
“10'2-4”: E. G. Hemmerde, K.C., in whose play
The Butterfly on the Wheel,” Madge Titheradge,
Beryl Faber and others well known to Australians
have scored successes, is an unusual character. He
is about 36, and is the only working K.C. who has
written a play and had it produced. At Oxford he
•ii the reputation of being capable of quarrelling
with Job in the latter’s most sainted mood. He is
6ft. 2m., and extremely good-looking, in a dark
Family Herald-isli style. There is no doubt that,
in going to the Bar, he abandoned a matchless career
as a shop-walker. He once won the Diamond Sculls.
S® * s ,f. n M-P-> Recorder of Liverpool, represented
tne British insurance cos. in Jamaica throughout the
earthquake cases (drawing, it is said, £lO,OOO for
” ls °. ne Horatio Bottomley’s counsel
tf le rare occasions when that persistent litigant
elects not to conduct his own case.
At one Melbourne theatre, the other evening, when
a critical moment in the love affairs of Horace had
been reached, and the house was tingling with emo-
tion, a missile from the gallery smote a fiddler so
violently on the head that he was knocked off his
perch. The crash diverted common interest from the
stage to the orchestra, where a rueful musician sat
caressing his head, and looking pitifully at a large
apple, which mischievous fruit had again brought
about the fall of man. Then a shrill voice piped
from the gallery, “Hi, mister, I didn’t mean that
for you. Give it to the hero, see!” The apple was
a love offering, a Cupid’s dart that had missed its
mark.
“Early Door” : The heavy dragoon “show-girl” who
has become a feature of the musical comedy begins
to be a weariness. In comic-opera days the centre
of the stage was reserved for the principals, and the
show-girl stood in the background as one of the
chorus. Nowanights half a dozen of her nod and
wave in the middle distance, and periodically inter-
rupt the plot by dancing on and doing something
unnecessary. I do wish somebody would tell her to
fall back a few yards, and mingle once more with
tlm simple villagers. The fact that she is called
Lady Sybil Sniallpart on the programme, and trails
round m gorgeous clothes, is her only visible excuse
for being away from them.
“Crade”: Florence Challis, of the Bull and Bush,
returns in October to rehearse for J.C.W., Ltd.
Australia will see more of her as a panto, boy.
“Battleaxe”: “Ancient Pistol” . (B. 18/5/’ll)
states that the present generation of playgoers has
had no chance to hear “Once more unto the breach ”
etc., by professionals. “A.P.” evidently missed the
short revival in the hyper-martial days of Mafeking
—May, 1900. George It. was Henry V., and Howard
Vernon negotiated the Pistol rSle.
London music halls and theatres combined two in-
dustries in the ’6o’s and early ’7o’s. When Offenbach
was the rage, one manager engaged a chorus more
for its perfection of form than for its vocal excel-
lence. His 70 charmers received Ss. per week, half
of it paid in counters to be expended in the saloon
wi er S^oW * made a more or less respect-
able living. Stars set no great example to the
chorus ladies. The celebrated singer, Grisi, who
married the equally great tenor, Mario, had four
children—two before she was married to Mario and
two after. They resembled each other to a remark-
able degree. Grisi always referred to the first two as the
Gnsettes, and to the other two as the Marionettes.
In olden days the ancient Philharmonic, at Islington,
was a favorite resort of certain exalted personages.
On one occasion a chorus charmer re-appeared, after
a temporary absence, carrying an infant. Whereupon
the greenroom assembly arose as one person and
sang the National Anthem.
“Rosna” (from London): Stanley Newman, the
Adelaide singer who brought his basso to the Fog
for polish some two years ago has been collecting
- S a member of the Crossley company in
S Africa. The obliging residents of Capetown built
WILLIAMS,
THE WELL-
KNOWN
ENGLISH
CUEIST, AT
PRESENT IN
AUSTRALIA.
a romance for
Crossley and
the fascinating
basso, beauti •
fully oblivious
of one rather
important item,
viz., Dr. Fran-
cis Muecke. On
arrival from
Britain, the
twain discov-
ered that they
had been all
but married by
the inhabitants,
and Ada had
to arise and
publicly an-
nounce that she
was perfectly
satisfied with
the husband
she had, thank
you all the
same.
• “l ibi ” : P ro b al >ly the greatest theatrical producer
m the world to-day is Max Reinhardt, an undistin-
guished-looking German of Berlin. Reinhardt first
attracted attention by the uncanny realism with
which he presented Shakspearian, Greek and modern
tragedies. Subsequently he tried his hand at lighter
drama and pure pantomime, and made an exquisite
success of Sumurun,” a wordless play of an Oriental
kind This year he has been guilty of a more as-
tounding achievement. Taking the second part of
Goethe s 1< aust, he put on the whole in 47 scenes
a colossal production which ate up six hours of
time and the labor of over 400 people.
“Screen”; The magnificent biograph of the “Siege
of troy errs in the introduction of eavalrv.
Homer does not mention any horse-riding. Horses
were only used for chariots. It is believed that
the Scythians invented riding. The Egyptians,
Babylonians, and so forth, practised it, as did the
Greeks after Homer’s time, and the Romans. The
Israelites seem to have learnt it from the Egyptians.
I, Stargazer Clarke and MevnelPs manager wrote
the Age, criticising the critic’s criticism of “The
Woman in the Case.” “Appreciation of acting,”
says he, is a matter of taste.” Appreciation of
acting, when a theatrical criticism is under dis-
cussion, is a matter of education and experience and
some artistic perception. Taste for acting is as
variable as dramatic fare and histrionic ability, and
both range from excellent to unutterable. The man
who knows what he likes” in art matters usually
means that he likes what he knows, and it generally
happens that he knows very little. People who have
no taste whatever have appreciation for acting, par-
ticularly bad acting, and it is the duty of the
cntic to correct popular taste, and direct it to
u thln ff; In fact ’ y° ur daily-paper critic
should be a Wowser in art, crying out against vulgar
appreciation, and endeavoring to lead the people to
the light beyond.
Zangwill was it who said that the dram-
. c „®, r t J st asked for only “two boards and a pas-
sion? Hi “The Woman in the Case” one bawd is
found sufficient.
Jean S. : Speaking of Moriee’s “He is Risen
Again (mentioned in “Poverty Point” the other
day), I think the writer is also finely satirical in his
description of Christ’s reception at the Three Kings
Piib, Place de 1 Etoile. Here, if my memory serves
me, the Saviour simultaneously receives 300 journa-
lists in 300 rooms, and to each He is shown as the
scribe s deification of himself! Surely there is some-
thing almost Voltairean in that sardonic thrust at
modern egotism.
“Harrison O.”: After long reflection I’ve come to
the conclusion that Australian theatre-goers buy
their amusement like their beer and butter, by
quantity, said quantity being about three hours. A
good play that lasted only two hours would almost
certainly be a rank failure financially. Further-
more, the representatives of leading Australian
theatrical firms assure me that the public will not
tolerate curtain-raisers,” and this appears to be
the truth. The result is seen in the too-frequent
unnecessary acts sandwiched into plays to spin them
out. Latest example of this is “Paid In Full,”
which works to a good climax in the third act, and
should end there; but, as that would only be qual-
ity without quantity, a fourth act, unnecessary and
inartistic, and obviously cribbed from Ibsen's “A
Doll s House,” is tacked on, though it really spoils
the piece.
“ Cat Head ” on the things we trust our
lives to :
Re the stability of the modern liner, any old “ shell ”
will admit that a vessel, however cranky, will wallop
around in all weathers, if her cargo is stowed “ below
the water line,” and even above it, if secured properly.
I bar, however, wool in the lower hold and pig-lead in
the ’tween decks.
Was once an unwilling party to grossly overloading a
steamer in Sydney. There appears to be no limit to the
weight of deck loads leaving our ports. This small ship
had timber piled on top of deck houses, and there were a
few launches, boats, etc., strewn about. Before she left
she tried to push the wharf over. The Penny Liar had
it that “ the fresh-water boiler tank burst,” whereby
between 50 and 100 people nearlv found the Promised
Land. The wicked truth is this. Owing to faulty
design the vessel refuses to remain upright, even when
loaded, unless one of her water ballast tanks is full. The
person, who, finding that the ship would not take any
more deck cargo, ordered this tank to be emptied was an
idiot and narrowly escaped being something worse.
Another serious matter. A vessel had sailed from
Australian ports for three years, and I had the luck to he
present when her port lifeboat was swung out for the
first time a few months ago. It refused to go, the davits
being too close by three feet 1 This in a cranky ship 1
I catne from the Cold Dart in a small vessel now
running weekly out of one of our ports. Before we left
it was rumored that she did not pass ihe stability tests.
We luckily had fine weather all the way. On arrival
she for a time amused the lumpers by laying down to it
when Cis hung over the rail to say good-bye to Billo on
the wharf, finally staggering out of sight on one bilge or
the other. Lately she has behaved better. Did someone
say “ bricks ”or “ pig-iron ” ? Who knows ?
Why is all this thus? Are there no real shipping laws
in Australia? Maoriland, I’m glad to admit, does things
a bit better.
The Age hates to remember its defeats
and, when one of its schemes is a corpse, it
leaves the poor thing in the gutter and
wouldn’t own it on any account. On May
22 it patted Prime Minister Fisher on the
back for so far promising nothing in the
way of Imperial defence —“when he said that
Australia must first be able to defend her-
self before she can consider her share in the
general defence of the Empire, he exactly ex-
pressed the general sentiment of the Austra-
lian man of the street and the countryside.”
Yet only a few months ago the same Age
was rounding up subscriptions for a Dread-
nought for the North Sea, and was cuffing
Fisher for preaching the very policy it now
upholds.
Somebody seems tremendously anxious
that the Melbourne Tramway Co. shall be
bought out of the remaining five or six
years of its lease by the State Government.
Every few months the Argus comes out
with the announcement that everything is
on the point of being arranged, the consid-
eration being the £2,000,000 mentioned by
the co. for its stock and fixings and the
“ingoing.” But that cock won’t fight. The
right people to own the city and suburban
trams which traverse the city and suburban
streets are the city and suburban councils;
and if there is any profit to he made out of
them it is those councils—-or preferably one
council for the lot —that should benefit.
The suburban councils are eager; the brake
on the wheel is the City Council, which
wants all the say.
The smell of something burning in M.L.: —
The old Tory party in Maoriland politics is ener-
getic, even if it has no luck in the present and only
the prospect of an inglorious grave in the future.
After the land-jobbery charges made by Hine had
exploded without much harm to anybody, and least
of all to the Government, things dulled down for a
while; but James Allen, one of the most bitter of
the Oppositionists, has brightened them up again
by setting a match to the Supreme Court Bench.
Starting with the assumption that a Judge might
be influenced by the Government voting him money
in payment for services on Commissions, he sud-
denly put his torch to Chief Justice Stout. Stout
had asked, he said, that the Judges should be re-
lieved from hearing the Hine charges; and although
his Honor had not been asked to comment upon
them, he said in his letter to the Premier that one
of the charges was “the reproduction of the babble-
ment of an election contest.” Allen then pointed
out that Stout was a member of the Statutes Com-
pilation Commission, which cost £5OOO, of which
he received a considerable share, and a member of
the Native Lands Commission, which cost £9BOO.
And:
“Was it not a fair thing to say that either
consciously or unconsciously the Chief Justice was
influenced by the fact that he had been appointed
to these Commissions by the Government, and that
large sums of money had got into his pocket from
these Commissions ?”
Then the Press rushed in and poured kerosene on
the premises, and everything blazed v ith great
vio-or. At latest advices, sparks were flying towards
London, where louseph Ward is sitting on the ruins
of his Imperial Council scheme of fireworks.
THE EMPIRE CHILD’S REVERIE,
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“As imitative as a child.”— Axiom.
In the course of a recent Empire oration Mr.
Henley, M.L.A., misplaced 184 aspirates.— Fact.
What ’appiness hit his to me,
Ileach 24th of May
To lay my ’and upon my ’art
And h^ e a 7ya°l lfit le a chfid?’
Hand hit his Hempire Day.”
The Hempire measures miles. Whites, browns,
Black, greys and yellows dwell
HltS C ° ld
And some hof hit ean , t ead h ’ or writ
Hand most hof hit can’t spell,
Hand hev’rywhere, from ’Amstead ’Eath
uLmSL ’ ■«
Lila/ ’Enley, m.1.A., are n6 ’
Who love to watch small kids wave flags
Hand ’owl “ ’lp, ’ip Way.”
Ko! ’ow Hi ’ope, when Hi grow hup,
in a m.A? 11 ™ 'fZ,i < s /av, ~
Helect/ify my state; 1 my words
Nor care, so long as’iLingland’s saved,
’Oo wastes the haspirate.
n.s.w.
MARAUD SAFRAN.
AN INTERLUDE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Upon his chest her beauteous head
Was pillowed, while a smile divine
Played on her lips. “Love me,” he said,
And then,” he breathed, “the world is mine!”
The scrumptious leading-lady’s slow,
lied’ sumptuous smile was passing sweet.
Look out!” she whispered, soft and low,'
You ass, you’re treading on nry feet!”
VICTORIA.
STONY.
KICKS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
She was a dainty dancing girl
With feet like roseleaves gaily blown;
Each skip, and kick, and graceful twirl
And genuflection, all her own 1
Gus watched her prance with wild delight—
He went to see her every night.
Gus sent to her a little note
In which he spoke of Cupid’s smart;
He said her feet in rhythm smote
All day upon his aching heart;
His Pa had died, and left a pile—
Oh, might he hope 1 He got a smile.
They met, and met. A year went by.
But man is fickle, though he kill.
He left his dear without a sigh.
She made no loud lament. She still
Has money in her kick. Gee wizz 1
There’s not a blessed cent in his.
VICTORIA.
SILAS SNELL.


WHY NOT GIVE YOUR BOY THE
COMFORT OF A JERSEY SUIT?
THE TAUNTON JERSEY SUIT,
illustrated, is just what you need for him,
and will only cost you
12/6
IT is knitted from good wool, excellently shaped to ensure a
good fit. It consists of three pieces—a knitted woollen Cap,
a Jersey and Knickers exactly as illustrated ; the Cap being
a smart Polo with tassel. In shades of Ivory
Brown and Navy. Sizes—lB, 20 and 22 inches ..
12/6
WE PAY CARRIAGE on all Goods except Furniture,
Floor Covering, Kitchen and Hardware to any part of the
Commonwealth. Only on Toys when ordered with other goods.
DAVID JONES LTD.,
Opp. G.P.O.
SYDNEY
•; '
Aching Back-
The bane alike of the housewife and of the
working man. In some eases every movement of
the body is accompanied by a sharp stabbing pain
in the small of the back, and in others the pain is
dull and continuous. These are symptoms of
kidney disease. Arrest its progress by using Dr.
Sheldon’s Gin Pills, which will act in a surprisingly
prompt manner. Price Is. Gd. and 2s. 6d.*
SOCIETY
PENFOLD'S
WINES
“Shark’s Fin” : Melbourne papers have
not touched the true scandal in connection with
the payments made to medical men after railway
collisions. The biggest lump of Sawbones money
is made when the Department goes to the medi-
cal attendant, saying : “ Your patient asks us for
£5OO ; tell him he had better take £3OO, and we’ll
pay doctors’ bills.” The doctor gives the advice ;
the patient acquiesces, knowing pretty well that
the size of the compensation will be largely
governed by the doctor’s opinion as to the size of
the damage ; and, things being thus satisfactorily
arranged, the bone-setter understands that no
questions will be asked about the size of his bill.
APPEARANCES APE ODIOUS.
JIMMY (as Julius Fitzherhert , the great " star ,"
passes): “ Say, Joe, that cove must be one
of those great men wot the teacher's always
fellin' us about."
JOE: “Gam! That's th' cove as owes mother
a deener f'r ’is washin ’.”
The most sublime example of the virtue of
thrift, and the most whole-hear ted follower of the
doctrine of “Waste not, want not,” turned up in
the S. M. Herald’s “Personal and Missing
Friends ” column the other day. He advertised
this way :
GENT.-, 40, with Knitting Machine, would like to
meet Spinster or Widow, 30 to 35, capable finish-
ing up, view to Matrimony.
Not to waste the knitting machine, he will put up
with a wife—“capable of finishing up” preferred.
It opens up a large and fertile field which “ Mr.
James” ought to cultivate. For instance, why
not run in a few advts. like this :
Widow, with a crosscut saw, will entertain proposals
view to above. Trial indispensable; wood provided.
Pearl, 259 Taylor-street, Redfern.
Or: —
Disguised duke, necessarily living incognito, in conse-
quence of having killed 34 people in duels, with a large
wardrobe (mostly soiled), will be glad to hear from an
experienced laundress with a view to matrimony. Must
be able to clear starch. Apply Monday morning,
Fitzpercy,
Baiting with these 'fictitious sprats, the attenu-
ated Herald might land a lovely mackerel in the
shape of anew and very profitable advertising
section.
Maoriland Justice Denniston says: “I
am always gratified when a mother has the cour-
age to face the position and make the best of it,
rather than force her daughter into a marriage
tiiat will prove unhappy.” He was referring to
the “ compulsory ” marriage, and to the experi-
ence of the Dominion’s Judges, that half the
cases of desertion-divorces spring from that par-
ticular brand of matrimony. Still it’s a wise
mother who knows how any marriage is going to
turn out, “compulsory ” or otherwise.
* * * *
The beer vendors of Westralia are now
practically on strike. Under the old Licensing
Act a bountiful crop of bona-fide liars flourished
in the Sandy State. It was only necessary to say
you were a bona-fide, traveller on the Sabbath to
obtain a quencher in any pub in the realm—at
double rates. Bung interpreted the Act widely,
and on the Sabbath knew not his own next-door
neighbor by sight. But, alas for boozers ! pair
by pair the new Act has blown them out. Under
this Draconian measure the onus of proving that
his customers are bona-fide travellers falls on
Bung, and, if he fails, a fine of £SO falls on him
for each drink supplied. The risk is too great, so
Bung has in congress assembled decided he will
serve no one, bona-fide or spurious; not even
lodgers are to have their lives saved on Sundays.
By this Spartan dodge Bung hopes to cultivate a
healthy public spirit on the subject—something
ardent that will hum loudly about next election
time.
* * * *
Anew terror has arisen. In Maoriland a
man, when about to marry his niece, was asked
by the Registrar if there was any lawful impedi-
ment. He cheerfully swore there wasn’t, and the
Voice breathed accordingly. Later on, it came
to the ears of Authority that the bride was the
man’s niece ; whereon the Law indignantly ran
him in, and charged him with having made a
false declaration. Counsel pointed out that the
only list of prohibited degrees of marriage avail-
able to the public was that contained in the
Anglican Book of Common Prayer. And that, of
course, was not official, and neither was it
correct, ns it prohibited marriage with a deceased
wife’s sister, which was perfectly legal. The
jury said it didn’t see how the man could know
he was making a mistake ; and if he was ignorant
of the prohibition he couldn’t have been guilty of
intent to make a false declaration. Wherefore,
Not Guilty. Presumably the Law will now take
steps to post up on police stations, railway wait-
ing rooms, telegraph poles and other places lists
which will begin with : “A man may not marry
his grandmother ”
Judge Gordon is making a good name for
himself in Adelaide. One day he is telling an
astonished lawyer that a ruling given by an Eng-
lish Judge in 1840 is not going to keep him from
doing justice to a housebreaker of 1911; another
day he is declining to consume valuable time in
listening to elaborate evidence about the hard-
ships of a coachc! river’s life, because he has often
handled the reins himself, knew all the drivers of
the past, and still corresponds with one of them.
Last week he burst up a most promising land
squabble, which had a K.C. and four other coun-
sel engaged on it. The proceedings took this
form :—r
After plaintiff had given evidence, the parties, at the
suggestion of his Honor, conferred with a view to com-
ing to an agreement. On returning into court, Mr.
Cleland said the difficulty was not as regarded the main
terms, but as to the subsidiary details. . ..
His Honor: £IOOO after last harvest? I think that
would be oppressive. You might ease it off till after next
harvest. . . . Suppose we make it due on March 1, 1912,
with 4 per cent, interest, and give proper security over
the growing crop?
Mr. Murray, K.C.: 4 percent, is a ridiculously low rate.
It should be 5.
His Honor: Split the difference and make it 4J per
cent. Then £IOOO in 1913, and so on.
And all parties were bustled into a fair com-
promise, while Horsehair simply curled at the
idea of a Judge settling a point which might have
given five lawyers a pleasant afternoon’s argu-
ment by calmly “ splitting the difference’’—just
as if he were a mere common-sense business man !
PAST, PRESENT AND FUTURE.
[Fob The Bulletin.]
The Woman with a Past it is
Who makes herself extremely pleasant,
, All in the way of plain, hard biz ;
She in the Future seeks her Present.
N.S.W. R. AND B.
* * * *
Federal tyranny, injustice and arrogance
got another well-merited showing-up last week: —
Alderman Baker (Mayor of Randwick) and several
other aldermen complained to the Electric Lighting
Committee of the Sydney City Council that, in connec-
tion with the lighting of Bunnerong-road, the city
engineer, contrary to an agreement with the suburban
council, had erected the standards on the western side
of the road instead of on the eastern boundary. The
explanation was that the Federal authorities harassed
the city authorities in such a way that, in order to expe-
dite matters and carry the current to the penetentiary
at Long Bay, Mr. Mackay had taken the matter into his
own hands, and erected the standards on the opposite
side of the road without waiting for permission from
Randwick. In any case it would not have been possible
to erect them on the eastern side.
It reminds the writer of a letter he had thought
of opening and reading the other day. So exas-
perated was he, however, by the harassing action
of the Federal authorities in regard to the im-
portation of dried rats from China, that he was
driven to the extreme step of burning the
document—a desperate measure which lie would
have taken in any event, the envelope being, on
the face of it, the lurking-place of a wine and
spirit merchant’s bill.
EQUIVOCAL.
ELLA: “He paid me a compliment—said I was very pretty .”
CORA: “ Well, dear , he never paid me a compliment, hut he often said I was pretty .”
Shampire Day in Sydney this year was
more frosty than ever. When the Orient boat in
port didn’t put on any gay rags and was spoken
to by some revolutionary Bruise Smith in conse-
quence, the reply was, “ Shocking ! But just go
and talk to the Admiral about it.” Then note
had to be taken of the horrible fact that the Pah’-
ful was flying no more rags than usual—except
that it was blanket-washing day, and the lines
were full of yellow bedclothes. The fact of
course is that the tremendous Imperialists of the
B. Smith brand are flying in the face of the
wishes of both George and his late father. Natur-
ally these two didn’t want a defunct sovereign
perpetually flung in their teeth.
Editor Bulletin, —Sir, I see by the busi-
ness paper of the N.S.W. Assembly, which is
delivered at my studio daily, that Mr. Peters is
sentenced to move that capital punishment be
abolished. Now, sir, before we go any farther, I
would like to know where this interference with
the occupations of the people is to stop.
At the same time, I will admit that if my
means of livelihood are suddenly to be
withdrawn from under me, it is better
that the job should lie done legally and
openly than by the confiscatory and
underhand methods adopted since the
Labor party came into power, whereby
several parties have hardly had time
to make themselves comfortable in the
condemned cell and arrange their earthly
concerns before being incontinently
evicted by the Government. Sir, what
confidence can be placed in a Government
that so tampers with the judgments of our
Courts and pollutes the font of Justice?
Why, no man is safe in the condemned
cell five minutes running nowadays. My
friend the Daily Telegraph put the
position very clearly the other mormng
when it said that it was the aim of Labor
to burden the citizens with serious ad-
ditional taxation. Look at the cost of
imprisoning men for life compared with
the trifling fee for hanging them ! I say
that no man who has a stake or gallows in
tlie country can come to any other con-
clusion about this objectionable Caucus
Government than that long ago arrived
at by my other well-known friend, the
Mourning Herald—that interest will
never be made to coincide with justice
in any form of government until the
people learn to do justice to their own
interest. —Yours at command. The
Indignant Hangman.
“Jimmie Pannikin ” : The statement of
Gov.-General Dudley at the Ulmarra (N.S.W.)
Show banquet, that the dairying industry needed
much regulating, and that unjustifiable child-
labor must be stopped for the good of the country
and the children, draws forth my loudest “ hear,
hear.” And I want to say a word to the Mayor
of Ulmarra, who, while admitting that the prin-
ciple of child-labor was bad, contended that the
facts had been largely exaggerated by inspectors
of schools and others. Now, I am one of the
school inspectors who have said much about this
child-slavery, and there has been no exaggeration
about my charges ; also, I believe other inspectors
and teachers to be equally truthful. There are
good and bad dairy-farmers, and it is the latter
only who will be hurt by Labor legislation deal-
ing with the evil. Along some parts of the
Manning River (N.S.W.) the children are better
fed, better clothed, better educated and brought
up, and lead healthier and happier lives than in
the pre-cow days; but there are other parts of
the Rivers district where regulation is urgently
needed to check some disastrous doings, and the
sooner it operates the better for the small slaves
and Australia.
A NEW ZEALAND INDORSEMENT.
In the home where there are young children
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy is indispensable, as
you will see by the following letter written by Mr.
Robt. Bowman, Ilerekino, N.Z.: “I have found
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy to be a certain cure
for croup, and the only medicine I could get to
cure my children of whooping cough. It cured them
of this disease after I had used all sorts and descrip-
tions of other remedies.”*
Westralia is overrun by exploring parties
just now. There is a Cambridge expedition in-
vestigating the fauna and flora of the North
West; and a German scientific expedition in-
quiring into the habits and customs of the natives
in the same region ; Mr. Conigrave, with apartv.
is off to explore the rivers and islands of Kimber-
ley coast; and Mrs. Daisy Bates (one of the best
authorities on native customs) has started for the
country between Laverton and Menzies. The
lady has a couple of camels, and will spend about
six months inquiring further into the social cus-,
tom of totemisrn, or tribal divisions for matri-
monial purposes. It was some infringement of
this tribal law, she thinks, that caused the tight
between the blacks near Laverton last year, when
so many were killed. Mrs. Bates ought to be
able to shed a ray or two of new light on the dark
subject when she returns, as she understands the
gentle art of collecting information in cxeclsis.
THE INTRUDERS.
CHOURUS OF BIRDS: “ We cannot even have toe
ai r' to ourselves."
Victoria’s acting-Judge Gurner, formerly
Crown Prosecutor, is taking full advantage of his
powers to suspend sentence, on the wise general
principle that a person is worth more out of gao’
than in it. At last month’s General Sessions, of
11 persons convicted, no less than seven were thus
treated; but the conditions imposed were so
stringent that some of the victims weren’t sure
they wouldn’t rather have missed the clemency.
One youth, who had broken into a warehouse,
got 12 months, but was allowed his liberty on
giving a bond of £25 and finding a £5O surety to
be well-behaved for two years, the bond further
stipulating that accused should not be out later
than 8 p.m., should not enter a hotel, should not
associate with racing people, and should report
himself fortnightly to a probationary officer.
This suggests that, as Judkins hasn’t a hope of
getting his “ reforms ” through Parliament, he
had better add to his already numerous profes-
sions by reading law and getting himself ap-
pointed a Judge.
QUADRILLES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There was a brilliant spectacle at the ball at Bucking-
ham Palace last night. The King and Queen Mary and
the German Emperor and the Empress Victoria opened
the quadrille.— Cable.
Buckingham Palace aglow with light,
And kings and queens in a grave quadrille ;
Melody echoing through the night;
An orderly crowd, white-faced and still.
What does it signify? Nothing much !
The kingly relatives meet once more ;
They smile and bow and their fingers touch,
While dancers pass on the polished floor.
The cold North Sea in a shroud of sleet,
And Dreadnoughts dancing a mad quadrille ;
No sound is made by the battle fleet,
Rehearsing figures that maim and kill.
What does it signify ? Everything !
Here is the truth that the ballrooms lack !
Here is the sword of the dancing king,
Unsheathed and keen in the ocean rack !
n.s.w.
FOE.


Keep your Table and
Household linen white
as snow by always
using Sunlight Soap.
DIRECTIONS ROUND fcACH TABLET.
J
NO. 87. GUARANTEED UNDER THE
“PURE FOOD ACT, 1908,"
BY LEVER BROTHERS LIMITED,
SYDNEY, N.S.W. No. 57.
OCCASIONAL CONSTIPATION is a fertile source of
many of the minor ills that flesh is heir to. The best way
of restoring- a state of healthy activity to stomach and
bowels is by taking a wineglassful of “ Hunyadi Janos”
natural aperient water every alternate day before break-
I I
&/>e Rig'Ht Shirt
for Present Wear.
THE vagaries of our Australian Winter-heat alternating
with cold all in one day, makes a woollen shirt an
essential safeguard against chills and chest troubles !
This Shirt fills the need exactly. It may be had in
Slate, Brown and Green Grounds, over which bright stripes
are run. The Neckband is unshrinkable, and you may have
it either with Turn Back Cuffs or Band Cuffs to Button. A
Soft Collar is included as well.
Price 9/6
Postage 6d. ;
Inter-State Bd. extra.
Please State Size of Collar Worn when Ordering.
PEAPES & CO. LTD.,
“ Men’s
Outfitters,”
309-311 George Street, SYDNEY.
Possibly there is no connection, but the
plea of the Princess Dhuleep Singh, who refused
to register her dog, as a protest against the with-
holding of the suffrage from women, recalls the
case of the Bendigo woman who ran away with a
commercial traveller and a quantity of her hus-
band’s belongings. The lady explained in court,
some time afterwards, that she had repeatedly
told her husband of the leak in the kitchen roof,
and had at length determined to “show him.”
In Melbourne newspaper offices Willie
Judkins’s name is Mudkins since the harvesters’
strike ended. While the strike was on the saj’--
ings and doings of little Willie and Packer, the
unionist who quitted, ran into columns, and their
New Unionism was greeted in hydra-headed
articles two spans long. Two days after the
strike was called off, Jud. and Packer’s revolution
had already shrunk so pitifully that it could be
dealt with in a nine-line item, and it is plain now
that the Peace press is preparing a tiny grave in
which Judkins’s tender and loving employer and
Packer’s humble and affectionate workman may
lie down together in brotherly burial. Positive,
pack; comparative, Packer; superlative, com-
pressed cold meat.
OUR TROUBLES
The price of haircutting has been raised to Is.
News Item.
FASTIDIOUS.
MRS. WILLIE: “ Precise! Mrs. Cotter precise? Why, the woman would wear a figleaf
if she thought it was fashionable."
MRS. JIMMIE : “ Yes; but she would be very particular about its quality.”
From the discursive “ Lud ” :
Linlithgow, Hopetoun’s son, to be with us presently,
was married at St. Margaret's, Westminster. ’Twould
be an Unpleasant Church! for King George and Queen
Mary to visjt, and I don’t think they have ever been
there. Why? Well, the magnificent pictured east
window contains portraits of Prince Arthur, eldest son
of Henry VII., and his bride-to-be, Catherine of Aragon
—who marrifed, instead, his brother, Henry VIII. The
window was presented by the citizens of Dort, Holland,
to commemorate the nuptials of Arthur and Catherine,
and was intended for Henry Vll.’s chapel, Westminster
Abbey. Of course it was never stuck up there. After
being in two Other places, it was buried underground by
General Monk, to escape Cromwell’s Puritans. Dug.up
at the Restoration, it was sold by Charles 11. to a gent.,
who sold it to St. Margaret’s. The Abbey authorities
said it belonged to them, and wanted to put it in Henry
Vll.’s chapel. Much litigation. Decided against the
Abbey. If it had been in the chapel when the present
King George married, it would infallibly have come down
again, and might have disappeared mysteriously.
“ Binnacle Boy ” : Several windjammers
are anchored in Hobson’s Bay, waiting for crews.
The skippers, of course, curse our laws, our high
wages, and the blackguards of sailors who
leave them and their handsome £3 10s. a
month. They don't allude to the law of
a supply and demand which at other
times- emplbyers mouth so glibly.
Yet the truth is that the supply is
poor because the treatment is
i vile. : A ship leaves England,
sav, for’Frisco. On top of the
Board of Trade allowance,
breakfast in the form of
rice or oatmeal is served
out. At ’Frisco one or
two of the men clear out,
and are replaced by
others at £5 a month.
The vessel sails for
Australia. First morning
out, no breakfast. The
watch goes aft to see the
* Old Man about it, and
the answer is: “While
I’ve got to pay £5 a month
for any man aboard this
ship, you’ll get your pound
and pint and no more.”
Naturally, when they get to
port it does not need a steam
crane to drag the men out. If
Jack wants clothes and asks
for money, he is given an
order on a ship’s tailor instead
—generally the one who will
give the captain the biggest
rebate. I can’t swear, of
SSp course, to the rebate, but I can
* swear that I’ve had to hand over
a 21s. order for a 16s. pair of gum
boots. Certainly I protested ; but
what was I to do? I had to have
the boots, and I didn’t have the cash,
though the money was coming to me !
A tear from the Oldest Inhabitant
Last week the only surviving hotel at Long Creek, near
Mudgee, known as the Commercial, closed its doors.
. That shingle was an old landmark. In the old mining
days of the ’so’s, there were some 20 hotels within a
radius of two miles, and the Commercial held a high
place amongst them.
The Melbourne Argus is understood to be
preparing to fight the Journalists’ Union on
various points. Amongst other things, it insists
that its sub-editors shouldn’t be members of the
Journalists’ Union. The Bulletin is inclined to
agree. Its idea is that they should join the
Tripe-dressers’ Union.
Victoria is menaced Jwith a “national”
memorial to the soldiers who died in the Boer
war; Jawn Madden and a few uninfluential per-
sons advocated it at a recent ceremony around
the inartistic monument which disfigures St.
Kilda-road. This fearsome structure was erected
by surviving members of the Fifth Victorian Con-
tingent, and not by the public. The present
agitation is to have something erected by
a sorrowing people. Already almost every suburb
of Melbourne and every little;Victorian hamlet
has a water-tap or other butchering monument,
and there is no visible disposition to add another
terror to the Boer war. There is only one more
hideous monument on earth than that on St.
Kilda-road, and that is the one in St. Kilda pro-
per, where a sort of pyramid has been erected of
a bilious-green tesselated tiling, with sickly-
yellow facings and a swaddy of heroic propor-
tions made of one huge tile—perhaps the biggest
single«tile in Australia —glaring fiercely out
oyer the bay to see if he can find something to
kill some fine morning.
“Vic.”: The cables from Mexico recall
that lately I read a letter received by an authority
here from the Mexican Minister of Education
asking for information about the Australian High
Schools, as some influential Mexicans had an
idea of sending their sons to Melbourne to acquire
culture. The Melbourne man answered with regret
that all the High Schools are connected with
religious denominations. It is an astounding
fact that we here have nothing to match the
unsectarian Grammar or High School of Sydney
or the Grammar School of Brisbane.
Dr. B.— Be Yic. Gov. Fuller’s fool-talk
abt Aust. defce & Territorial Army (B. 18/5/T1).
Best thing to date abt Terr. Army was prosecu
tion of alleged deserter. London police crt
Magistrate remitted him to Children’s Court; he
was under 16. Fact. Kpow space precious;
have I abbrev. suff’ly ?—Yrs, T.
The M.L. Supreme Court has been argu-
ing the point with a murderer and some solicitors
—which is a strong combination to have a differ-
ence with. One Alfred Cash killed his wife last
December; he was sentenced to be hanged, but
was reprieved and ordered to be imprisoned for
life. The woman, who possessed a good deal of
property, died intestate, and, as she left no issue,
the estate in ordinary circumstances would have
gone to the husband. But the Public Trustee rushed
that gentleman out of his cell to the court, and
demanded a ruling as to whether a convicted mur-
derer could inherit his victim’s property. The dis-
turbance was increased by a claim being advanced
on the estate by the assignees under Cash, who
were the solicitors employed to defend him on his
trial. Mrs. May brick, Crippen and several other
well-known citizens were introduced to Justice
Chapman and materially assisted his Honor in
framing his judgment, which was that both the
murderer and the Gents One had better get work,
for they’d get no money. Following precedent he
decided that Cash could not inherit the property
of his victim, so, as no property went to him,
there was none to assign to his solicitors. The
Public Trustee thereupon collected the lot for the
benefit of the dead woman s next-of-kin other than
the gentleman with the broad arrow on his repu-
tation, and the Court resumed the even tenor of
its horsehair.
An Outback Westralian Miners’ Union
lately carried a motion condemning the banks for
their niggardly treatment of their clerks; and
the combined clerk doesn’t know whether to
pocket his class pride and give three cheers or
remember that he’s a cut above thqse miner-
fellows and feel very'much annoyed about it.
* * * *
The local synonym for the once-oppro-
brious epithet “Pro-Boer”—now so out of
fashion, by the way, that a colonel was loudly
cheered in Sydney last week for mentioning that
he was “glad he had not shot General Botha’’—
is “ disloyalist.” According to Sydney’s astound-
ing daily press, those citizens who omit to
“salute the Flag” (meaning the Union Jack) or
fail to go and hear B. Smith orate or otherwise
celebrate May 24, are “ disloyalists.” Well, there
must be a prodigious number of them; for the
cables say nothing of Empire Day celebrations,
in Canada, India or S’Africa. Neither the
King nor the Queen, their offspring nor any
other member of the Royal family attended
an “Empire service,” or speechified or
saluted the Flag. Prime Minister Asquith
collaborated with Opposition-leader Balfour in
treating Empire Day as frigidly as the normal
burgher treats Washing Day. The members of
the British Chamber of Commerce did not sus-
pend operations while political has-beens fired
vaudeville patriotism at them. In short, to
admit the premises of the local “loyalist” is to
arrive at the preposterous conclusion that about
the only loyalists of the British Empire are B.
Smith and his friends Smithurat, Hyman and
’Enley.
“The Shover”: On £4OO per annum,
propose to a girl and tell her that you have five
acres, a cow, and a lovely, large tent to offer her,
with every facility for doing her own washing,
cooking, dish-swabbing, eating, sleeping and
darning in the open air. For a moral, she will
spurn your offer, even though you be an Australian
Adonis with an income guaranteed for life. On
£3OO per annum, offer a girl a wedding-ring and a
“ handsome villa” in alow-lying part of a “ nice”
suburb—a villa with small windows and next to
no ventilation, furnished with expensive, dust-
and-germ-harboring carpets and arm-chairs—and,
if you are in any way decent looking and are pre-
pared to allow her a bit for dress allowance, she
will leap readily into your loving arms. It is an
artificial, unsatisfactory, unnatural, insanitary
state of affairs.
THE GENTLE GAME.
"Did you see our silly ass of a skipper lose
his head?”
“No; and I'm glad I didn't—it was horrid,
enough to see him when he lost his ear.”
Dr. Burnett; Ham’s promise, on behalf of
the Melbourne Metropolitan Board of Health, to
offer a superior breed of rat-catching cats at bar-
gain rates, recalls that an up-country Vie. coun-
cil adopted the same policy a few years baqk, in
the hope of weedingout rabbits. But the plan
was a failure, and the council dropped it when it
found that it was merely providing two Chinese
camps with cheap meat.
Wild’s Hairdressing Rooms, 30 Upstairs,
Sydney Arcade, George and King Streets/Sydney, is the
proper place to go if you want the best of attention.
Electric head and, face massage done in the latest
American style. Hours of business : 8.30 to 6.30 ; Satur-
day close at 1 o’clock.*
RIGHTEOUSNESS REGAINED.
[FOR THE BULLEITN.]
“As I get older I become more careful in the use of
adjectives.”— Melbourne parson.
Gone are the hot, red days of j'outh,
The fiery times of yore
When I, a reckless curate, used
Contempt and scorn to pour
On Beelzebub ; nor care a scrap
How bitterly 1 swore.
The slightest sign of Satan’s hoof
Sufficed, at once, to throw
My angry youthful passions loose ;
My heart with rage would glow,
And ffo’in my lips.wild expletives
Wouldrush, like “ Bosh ! ” and “ Blow ! ”
Grim phrases, such as “ horrid man,”
“ Disgraceful naughtiness,”
“ Rude fellow” and the like surged forth :
It shames me to confess
The stern remarks I hurled at folks—
For instance, “ Fie 1 ” and “ Bless ! ”
In time my speech became less like
Some lingual arabesque ;
The snap and vigor that had made ' r .
It almost Worrall-esque ? <\
Departed, leaving it more suave,
If not so picturesque.
To-day von might invade my church,
Withhold your petty cash,
Disturb the sermon, ogle at
My trusted deacon’s mash,
Yet not contrive to ring from me
One solitary “ Dash ! ” %
x.s.w.
10-2-4.
HER HAT.
[FOR THE BULLEITN.]
Beneath a hat enorme I saw
The dainty face of Mary ;
She seemed to Arid within its fence
A kind of sanctuary ;
And I, who hate such hiding gear,
Could only then berate it,
And yet was such a prey to fear
I dared not violate it.
Had it been just a parasol—
-0 Face that used to haunt me !
From taking place and tender toll
No tremor e’er could daunt me ;
Beneath a shade of green or blue
No mischief could befall me,
And ne’er a witch of all the crew
With cunning craft appal me.
Bub now, beneath a straw-built cage
I catch a blushing vision
So shy, demure, and yet secure,
I dare nob ask admission ;
Send back, ye gods, the parasol,
That canopy of Venus,
And ban to Hades’ sulph’r.v hole
The hat that comes between us !
QUEENSLAND.
F. BORN.


aviators and the
CORONATION.
London, Wednesday.—Mr.
Winston Churchill, Secre-
tary for Home Affairs,
has given notice to in-
troduce a Bill into the
Commons providing for
the prevention of aero-
planing over London
during the Coronation
celebrations.
7 '/creß \
SHOW
'APMIV' 0 *
7 Htl-
SU-^ L
The reasons for the regulation are
obvious. A falling aviator might hurt
himself very badly if he landed on a
Suffragette’s hatpin.
But It Is difficult to st J 3 how the
thing is to be done. The white*
gloved hand of a London bobby
held up will stop street traffic
till further orders; but aero-
planes are not omnibuses.
T 3
I ?iLLC,R IM3 ?Ro^
AJp v |
C r ft fa t T'Ln
r INHERE Dip
J/JDASISC/IRIQ
%
S?E N DTrl^
5h b k e is ? ."
4 D I'l'v.s " •"
-\
Besides, articles dropped by careless
airmen from a great height might have
unpleasant consequences. Imagine our
High Commissioner, for instance, hav-
ing his after-dinner nap spoiled and
his digestion ruined by a spanner fall-
ing from the skies through the sky-
light upon his “ bread basket.”
The conservative person who sat
down on Jo Ward's Imperial Council
scheme probably jumped out of a flying
machine. It was such a sickening
thud I
The Acting Chief Secretary (Mr. Flowers) has directed that the licensees
of all places Having permits for Sunday concerts shall be notified that in
future the music must be of a sacred character, and the cinematographic films
must be of a sacred or suitable character. And, further, that a collection
shall be taken up at the close of the performance, not as a practical demand
for the price of admission at the door.
A cracked bell to be rung for half an hour or so before each performance
would add materially to the sacredness of these Sunday shows, and would
dispel ait? lingering objections on the part of the Truly Good.
TALK ABOUT FISH YARNS t
A fight in mid-air with a giant eagle was the sensational experi-
ence that M. Oibert, one of the competitors in the Paris-Madridrace, had.
Luckily, M. Oibert had a revolver with him, and drawing the
weapon at the first opportunity, he got a shot at close quarters, and
the eagle, releasing its hold of the machine, dropped to the earth,
mortally wounded.
Amateur fisherman (referring to above): “ ’Taln’t no use, Tom,
we’re outclassed! ”
MORE OR LESS MORAL.


LEWIS & WHITTY’S OLIVE OIL.
Guaranteed in conformity with the PURE
FOOD REGULATIONS of the Australian States.
LEWIS & WHITTY,
Melbourne and Sydney. t j
McKenzie’s excelsior baking powder.
Diamonds Reduced
—Enormously.
Selected Diamonds
and 1 Sapphire,
£l2/12/-
Blue White
Diamonds, £2O.
For six months we will offer Diamonds in Rings, Pendants, and Jewellery generally, at prices never
before attempted in Australia.
WHY ? Well, we have undertaken a Sole Agency that calls for an enormous output, and we have to
live up to it, and so we are offering all Diamond goods at merely a commission on the actual cost.
It will pay us, because of the advertisement and the increase of customers.
Flaln Figures
Cash.
Fairfax & Roberts,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“Pick”: The Hackenschmidt and Gotch of
the insect world are the black hornet and the water-
spider. I was yabbying in a dam, beside which a
hornet was dressing a pellet of clay for the walls of
a nursery he was building, when. I saw under the
root of a willow the glittering eye of a spider,
which winked at me as if, to say “You watch the
Yankee start I’ll presently give that fellow.” The
spider got a sudden holt by springing from his
corner as the hornet fussed near, and the air at once
became thick with fur, feathers, kicks and profanity.
The spider was Hackenschmidt. He wrestled fairly,
and was on top until forced to jump back on all-
sixes to avoid the piston-stroke prods of the other
fellow’s business end; but he still held on some-
where, and over they went together into the dam.
The heat of their argument made the water bubble,
and such a swirl did they create on the surface that
a frog lying-to near the reeds to watch the fun be-
came a total wreck. I got a yabby bite just about
then, and when I looked again all three’ had disap-
peared. I believe they swallowed one another.
PLAYED OUT.
MRS. S MITHERS: “ Go to
the ant, thou sing-
gard!”
W ILLIE: “No use, mum, she’s jest as close-
Jisted as the rest o' me relatives."
“F.E.”: "When Aboliars have finished dis-
coursing on the, origin of “running the cutter,” they
might turn their intellects on to the momentous
problem of the whenqeness of the similarly-used
phrase, “Running the rabbit.” It is more often
applied to one of the gentle sex than the other, men
being mostly in the habit of visiting a bar to talk
about the eternal dog; but when you see three or
four scandal-agents foregather at the house of one of
them in certain Melbourne suburbs, you will pre-
sently see one emerge-—or a small girl may be des-
patched—with a handbag, basket, or other vehicle.
In that article will be a bottle, for the seemly con-
veyance of liquid refreshment. The woman, girl or
damsel may go thus once, twice, or half a dozen
times; it depends on the number and capacity of the
newsmongers foregathered. And if a mate asks her
what she is doing, she will reply, “Runnin’ th’
rabbit.”
“Berkeley”: “Te Babarantiko’s” remarks
(B. 13/t/’ll) are hardly fair to traders in the Solo-
mon Islands. With very few exceptions, it is re-
garded as a serious breach of etiquette for one man
to encroach on another’s hunting ground, so far as
copra getting is concerned; but with the beehe-de-
mer, snail-shell, or ivory-nut trade it is different. A
trader is held to be quite justified in taking these
from wherever he is lucky enough to find them. The
worst offender against the understanding with regard
to copra is a certain trading company which intro-
duced itself by providing missionaries, who, amongst
other things, preached that the trader was a bad
man. When that teaching had soaked in, the mis-
sionary t/aders began to pay double the amount of
tobacco offered by the other traders, and from one
stick of “tubbac” for a string of 10 cocoanuts, the
price had risen two months ago to 10 sticks, or
more than the copra was worth. The co. will still
pay that when the opposition is killed—l don’t
think! Still, generally speaking, the Solomon
Islands trader is doing pretty well —well enough to
fancy he is not making wages unless he is clearing
from £2O to £3O a month. And, as a class, these
men are very different from those described by
“T. 8.” They may be' rough, and of all nationali-
ties ; but they stick together as white men should.
Furthermore, the nigger is not boss —far from it;
but the trader, or planter, who hasn’t the tact to
keep on friendly terms with him had better throw
up his job. lie’s only wasting his time, and in
places risking his life.
* * # *
“Vagabond”: Dunno about frogs, but it’s
a cert, that music works the oracle on the savage
breast of a snake. Once had a pet “carpet” and a
phonograph. Didn’t matter where the phono, was
put, as soon as the music started snake would make
a bee-line for the box, rear himself up on tip-toe and
slide right down inside the horn. I’m sure it was
the crowning sorrow Of his life that Nature had
neglected to provide him with an outfit for doing a
proper heel-and-toe to the Two-Step and Buck-and-
Wing tunes. I was just trying to teach him to
do his best by rapping his nose and tip of his tail
on the table to the proper time when he died from
an attack of broom-handle which he caught from a
girl who came to visit me when I happened to be
out.
* * * *
“Snrleigh Knott” : My pal and I landed
in Port Moresby, Papua, absolutely “stone mother-
less,” after working our passage. Soon bumped a
pub. My pal and I had previously formed a plan
to return the shouts that are always flying about at
the port. We shared one glass, as it came to us
per medium of black-boy waiters, and put the other
one behind us on an empty hogshead. Presently the
crowd looked longingly at me, as if expecting some-
thing. I spoke to the boy, and presently I came to
light with the drinks—-all beers. I’m a sport.
“Cellu Loid”: I see some Aboinnocents
are out looking for tall trees. On the hill, at the
rear of the Government residence, Gizo, Solomon
Islands, there stood a tree that would make most of
those so far mentioned look like saplings. This par-
ticular toothpick was preserved by a Government
official with an eye for
beauty and usefulness,
and was an ornament and
a landmark for trading
vessels entering the har-
bor, until one day an-
other official happened
along, who had no eye
for anything, and set out
to remove it. It took
nine good axemen six
days to' fell this little
beanstalk, and, as it ab-
solutely refused to burn,
I guess it’s there yet. We
measured it, and the tape
showed 28ft. diameter
from sap to sap. From
buttress to buttress it
went considerably more.
The trunk was without
mark or blemish for
120 ft. to the first limb,
and the wood was a beau-
tifully grained red and
black, fit, as I was after-
wards informed by a tim-
ber man in Sydney, for
the finest woodwork, such
as bank counters, etc. The
decapitated trunk was a
blot on the landscape, and
the officers of one of the
gun-boats, on patrol • in
the Group, offered to re-
move it. In the centre
of the trunk was a clean
hollow, about Bin. in dia-
meter, and this was
stuffed with Heaven knows
how much gun-cotton, with
a good long fuse attached.
Several ewts. of stone and
rubbish were piled on top
of this. They reckoned
to blow that splinter right
off the earth. They didn’t.
When the explosion oc-
curred it just blew the
stcnes a mile or two out
to sea. There is a day
coming—and it’s not far
distant when Australia
will be a land of stumps and regrets. Then
will the timber-yard man exploit the wonderful
timber-country where millions and millions of feet
of the finest hard and soft woods in the world swing
their huge tops to the south-east trades. In fact, I
know of one co.—it helps to keep the world’s face
clean—that is already quietly shipping logs from
where I mention. That co.’s motto is: “Say nothing
and saw wood,” so it hasn’t many competitors.
* * * *
“S. Q. Whyffe” : “Montalex” (B. 4/5/’ll)
contradicts Randolph Bedford as to the changing
habits of the English oak in Australia. Perhaps he
does not know that different kinds differ in habit.
Some drop their dead leaves in early autumn; others
wear theirs through winter into spring, when the old
leaves are pushed off by the buds of the new crop. I
know two trees, about 80 years old, growing side by
side and proving this assertion. The weeping wil-
low, in Queensland, undresses for about three months
in winter; in Tasmania, it stands naked for nearly
six.
THE ELOQUENCE OF TILE BUSH.
BILL: "Yairs, Lize ; and I ’ opes these ’ere fingers'll soon be milkin' in me own cowyard."
“St. S.” (B. 30/8/T1) ques-
tions whether snakes fascinate birds. Speaking for
the semi-cleared portion of the N.W. coast of
“Tassy,” where a snake census would dwarf that of
any other section of the Commonwealth, I say they
do. In this portion of Tas. small bird-life simply
swarms —blue heads, cocktails, saucy fans, fire-tails,
etc. —and constitutes the principal provender for Mr.
Snake. This is how I’ve seen him go marketing many
a time. Snake shows himself, and, as soon as a bird
sights him, her top-note brings up all the others in
the vicinity. Snake then gets on the move with a
party after him, until he finds a suitable piece of
ground, where he bides his time. After he has been
lying in the one position for about 10 minutes with-
out moving, the. birds come closer and closer, those
in front taking on a peculiar fluttering. Then snake
moves very slowly towards them, until, with about a
foot of ground to cover, he makes a rush at the
menu, and yells, “Poultry, one.” He gets it every
time.
* * * *
“Truthful .Tames” : I would like to know
what methods the infernal aboliars employ when
manufacturing damper under similar conditions to
the following: (1) The usual torpid heat of central
W.A. ; (2) very little water; (3) no cooking uten-
sils. One party I was with in this region num-
bered amongst its members a hardened old wealth-
seeker, who, with the reluctant assistance of a fat
and stodgy mate, gave a practical demonstration of
what he considered the most satisfactory method.
The stodgy gent was requested to remove his shirt
and lie face down on the ground, curving his spine
downward to make a hollow just below the shoul-
der blades. In the depression the meal was mixed
without a drop of the precious liquid being wasted.
I don’t know how the damper tasted, because I
wasn’t hungry that evening.
“Eryander”: “Yalguu” (B. 20/4/T1) re-
minds me. I had hold of one end of a moderately
heavy log—mate at the other —when I got a severe
prick in a finger, followed by a dart of pain right
up the shoulder. Involuntarily I let go; and my
mate, doing ditto in a great hurry, got it on the
toes. He was coming at me with slaughter in his
eye. “What the blazes?” he was beginning, when
something in my appearance suddenly changed his
note. “Why, old man—what’s happened you? You’ve
turned green.” “Bitten by something,” was all I
could say, holding out the finger. He looked closely
at it. “Not a snake,” he said. “Must have been a
centipede or a scorpion.” Then, tearing off the
loose bai'k at my end of the log, we dislodged and
slew half a dozen scorpions. Little grey fellows they
were, about an inch long, and the way I suffered for
weeks with that hand and arm made me wonder what
would have happened if I had fallen foul of one of
the big three-inch chaps I had seen in the tropics.
“The Tramp” : “T.J.M.” (B. 11/5/T1)
wanted a decoction that would choke off the busy
blow-fly from the horse’s hurt leg. Here’s a sure
thing: Paint the wound with collodion. If the gee-
gee has a yawning chasm, of course you should bind
up his wounds. But for a common or garden
wound or scrape, collodion is the stuff. It forms a
skin over the wound (the same stuff, I believe, is
sold at a fancy price under a fancy name), and the
most armor-penetrating buzz-fly will be foiled in his
attacks. Still, I’d advise “T.J.M.” to gently knock
the nag over, and get the heaviest member of the
family to anchor down his head when the dressing is
being applied; for you can look out for fireworks
when the Friend o’ Man feels the sting. The smart
takes a second or two to develop, though, so if you
look sharp you may get it on before he wakes up to
the trouble.
Randolph Bedford : “Montalex” objects to
certain statements in my article, “The Rebellion,” as
to the imported oak in Australia becoming less and
less deciduous, and works out the idea that, if 43
years ago the Fitzroy Garden oaks kept their old
leaves a month longer and found the new leaves a
month earlier, by now they should be evergreen. That
should be provable if “Montalex” has fixed a reliable
table of progression, but as he hasn’t, he is stating a
non sequitur. The keeping of 1 the leaf longer and
the bursting into bud earlier was pronounced enough
to justify my statement. “Montalex” carries the
oak into my statement about the betterment of types
by southern environment, when he must have known
that I was speaking of animal types. I make a
statement about eucalypts in Corsica flowering amid
the snows of winter, and he rebuts this with a state-
ment from Professor Semon’s book as to “the
dwarfish specimens of eucalypts found in Italy.”
Corsica isn’t Italy, and I did not suggest that the
Corsican-grown eucalypt was in the same street as
the eucalypt in the country of its origin, and it
would have been right against my own argument had
I suggested it. I did not know that the rifle-fish was
an Old World type, and will be grieved to hear
that the ceratodus is also. “Montalex” missed a
point he might have made. I said that the Austra-
lian rabbit was bigger than his English prototype,
and I should have said that he is hardier and more
fecund. But for all practical purposes of fact “The
Rebellion” stands good. The trouble is that in a
big country like Australia the man who only knows
a bit of it applies his little knowledge generally, and
contradicts the man who knows a big area of it.
“Montalex” says the Australian gum is much finer in
its own country than in others, and that is so; yet
I have seen better gums in California than in some
parts of Australia, where the life of a tree is a des-
pairing struggle. Even if Professor Semon compared
Tasmanian blue-gum and the giants of the Black
Spur with the sprawling eucalypts of Italy, “Mont-
alex” should know enough of the varying conditions
of Australia to refrain from using him in argument.
THE LAST TRUMP.
[FOR THE BULLEITN.]
The train was whirling on its way like four-and-
sixty devils;
It clattered round the sweeping curves and roared
along the levels ;
Two hours and more the speed-mad wheels had
yelled their iron chorus.
The Bishop, wearied out by it, snored like a stout
Thesaurus —
A good and stout Thesaurus.
Four keen commercials, travel-proof, were seated
near His Gaiters;
They played at cards like sinful men, for they were
parson-haters;
And as the noiseless spades and clubs were cast upon
the “table”
(A bag on end), the gamblers four set up a joyous
babel —
A loud, excited babel.
The Bishop stirred and shuddered once, then went on
lightly sleeping;
The last card fell, and in the air the conqueror was
leaping; i
“Last trump!” “Last trump!” he yelled in glee
at players three dejected
The Bishop woke and grabbed his hat. “O Lord,
how unexpected!
How very unexpected!”
N.s.w.
KODAK.


A.N.A. Secretary writes:
“ It is astonishing how little
we know of our own in-
dustries. I shall always use
CALDWELL’S INKS in future.”
h
Carters
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
Your Liver
is Clogged Up
That’s Why You’re Tired— Out of
Sorts—Have No Appetite.
CARTER’S LITTLE LIVER PILLS
■will put you ripht in a few days.
They do their duty. Cure Consti-
pation, Biliousness, Indigestion, and
Sick Headache.
Small Pill, Small Dose, Small Price.
GENUINE must bear Signature
PLASMON OATS
Scotland s Best —“ Enormously increased
the addition of Plasmon.”
4 Minutes Boiling only. — Lancet.
PLASMON is used by the ROYAL FAMILY
Australian Depot: 5& 7, Barrack 8t„ Sydney.
The Royal Hotel,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Most centrally situated Hotel in Sydney.
Best place to lunch and dine in town.
J. W. COCKBAINE, Proprietor.
“Andra”: Out West in the Ma State,
there s a lot of betting as to the destination of a
big cheque, which will presently take charge of a
man who, every four years, for the past 30, has
started for a holiday in Sydney or Melbourne and
has never got past the first pub. This time his
cheque runs close up to £2OO, and whether he
heads for Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide or Brisbane,
lie 11 be waylaid by a grog emporium before he
covers 100 miles. So far he hasn’t decided Which
route to follow, and Messrs. Beer, Barrel and Bung
arc sitting up all night in case he tries to pass
through in the darkness. For the sake of a bet I’ll
lay a rabbit-trap that he doesn’t get past any of
them in the daylight unless Hammond, the aviator,
could be induced to call round fob him with his
flying omnibus.
METAPHOR.
FIRST BATCHER: “What’s the matter, Bill?”
SECOND BATCHER: "!!!!! This pig of a meat-safe won’t keep its swine of a door shut;
and the dogs of flies have got into this cow of a steak! ”
“Eryander”: Sat on a bench t’other day,
at Bondi, beside a man who was doing a kind of
three-cornered act between an open book, his watch
and the sun. Thought at first he was dotty; but
when he shut the book with a disgusted snap, I
guessed what the trouble was. “Cardinal points?” I'
gently murmured. He opened the book again has-
tily, found a particular page, and thrust it under
my nose. “Read that, - Mister,” he said, “and then
try the blanky trick for yourself. The book was about
physiography, and I read: “To find the cardinal-
points. Direct the hour-hand of your watch to the
sun, and half-way between that and the 12 will be
due south.” It was then about 2.30, and the point
thus worked out on the ’Ticker” was very nearly
west. I looked at the title-page. Printed in London.
Then I knew. “On this side of the world,” I said,
“it’s north you’ve got to find first. Reverse the pro-
cess. Point the 12 to the sun and take half-way to
the hour-hand.” He experimented. “That’s got
’er!” he triumphantly exclaimed. “By gum, Mister,
yortarbin a hadmiral!” I didn’t see the point, but
I suppose it was complimentary.
QUITE USELESS.
J.P.: “ Did ’ee have an agreement with him?”
THE PLAINTIFF: “Yes; we had a verbal
agreement. ”
J.P.: “Tul, tut —not worth the taper it’s
written on.”
“Snooker”: The dead-beat was close up
to the end of things when his mate visited him in
the hospital to cheer him up a bit. “You’re blanlty
sick, Jim,” he said, sympathetically. “Yes,” whis-
pered the other. “I serpose y’ll die.” “Yes, I’m
goin’ to die, Joe.” “’Ave you thought of ’Eaven
and all that?” “No; I carn’t get to ’Eaven. I’m
afraid it s Hell fur me, Joe.” “Oh, I dunno; and,
anyhow, yev got some sort of a ’ome to go to at
larst.”
The strife is o’er; the battle done, but are not
improvements possible? Do you recollect the old
system of voting? Its crudities and deficiencies?
The ballot of to-day was a wonderful advance. But
is it perfect? Why not mechanical aids? Depress-
ing a button should register “Yes” or “No,” and
automatically credit the corresponding division. Not
only should machine voting ensure accuracy, but
reduce poll attendant’s work and the final figures
directly the poll closed. On instructions the attor-
neys at 266 Flinders Street, Melbourne, patent in-
ventions.*
“Leo Lear” : I have been for years, and
am still, on the lookout for any insect, bird or
animal that will give reliable information re the
approach of rain, and I’m rapidly coming to the
opinion that they don’t exist —anyway, along the
coast of Queensland. My conclusion is that, as the
majority of Nature’s marriages occur during the un-
settled spring months, “the voice that breathed” has
erroneously become connected with a precipitation
of moisture. For instance, the croaking of bull-
frogs in the verandah-spout is hailed as foretelling a
deluge. But the amphibian sings with equal vigor
when thunder from a dry storm rolls overhead.
Likewise he maketh a row during and after rain,
that being his season of matrimonial celebrations.
Nor do I place much cash on birds as rain prophets.
The migratory storm-bird (channel-bill cuckoo) ap-
pears in my district (Burnett, Q.) in the early
spring, which is the thunderstorm period. Ilis rasp-
ing cry grinds out irrespective of sunshine or shadow,
being as often heard at night as in the day. Here
again observe the breeding season corresponding with
rain. Nor will the theory of moths and other pests
crowding round lamps prove that there is water in
the air. These insects, hatched in the hot, damp
weather, singe their wings with equal cussedness
while the wet is plumping on the roof. Take ants.
If their meteorological department was reliable, the
“found drowned” list would be very considerably re-
duced. And so on right through the chapter. I
don’t wish to disparage the intellectual calibre of
the wild life of Coastal Bananalan'd; but, unless
something more definite in the way of liquid seers
is produced from other parts of the continent, I
place my money on Dad’s rheumatism in preference
to the bulk of things.
* * * *
“Gip” : Satisfied that dogs have the sense
of language, as anybody will admit when I point it
out. You are sitting in the humpy and Paddy
barks. “Somebody coming,” says the stranger. “No,”
chirps young- Bill ; “it’s only old Smith passing.”
Another bark. “That’s Norman,” remarks Dad, and
goes to open the back door. Or: “Hullo, Paddy’s
put up a fox. Must be in the creek. Pity there
ain’t a moon.” Or: “Wonder whose bullocks is in
th’ paddock.” The bark for each is distinctly dif-
ferent. Then there’s the one that says from the
woodheap on Sunday, “Hurry up, boss, you’ll never
get to the Round Waterhole and back before dark” ;
and the one when Paddy remarks to Bill, just before
dawn, “Come for a scoot across the horse paddock,
sonny—just the time for rabbits.” And others that
I can’t remember.
‘ Eddyson” : Dinny Peach has a creek on
his selection at Gimlctgum, and he is mightily proud
of it. It is nothing in the nature of a raging tor-
rent even in the wet season, and in the summer
becomes so attenuated a stream that a thirsty cow
has been known to suspend its flow for 15 minutes
Nevertheless, Dinny loses no faith in “me crick,” and
will walk you miles out of your way to let you look
at it if you happen to be a stranger and susceptible
to persuasion. He may even let you have a drink
of it if he is in a genial and generous humor. The
creek meanders many miles before dropping in on
Dinny, but in Dinny’s mind it is Dinny Peach’s creek,
and all other persons making use of it are insolent
embezzlers and unmannerly scamps. On the day of
my arrival at Gimletgum, Dinny, as a great favor,
carried me off to see “me crick.” When we reached
the place where the creek had been, the track of that
splendid watercourse was slightly moist, but there
was no visible movement. Dinny Peach uttered a
cry of frenzy, and started up the bed of the missing
stream at an amble. He returned to his house and
home five hours later, with one black eye, one bruised
lip, two teeth less than usual, an ear like a purple
plum, and this explanation: “’Tis alwiz the like whin
the Corcorans have a washin’ day.” On inquiry I
ascertained that the land of the Corcorans was seven
miles off by the creek route. But Dinny would have
run them down had it been 70.
“The Pariah,” from another beautiful
spot :
I enter a 56-year-old nomination, and back
it up. “September 14, 1854.—We came in sight of
Cape Otway about 10 this morning. It had a very
hazy appearance while far-distant; but, as we came
nearer, we found it to be one mass of plantations
and very beautiful scenery. It was one of the most
splendid views I have seen. Perhaps it is the Pisgah
of this land of promise.” The “mass of plantations”
is still there, but the giant blackbutts that were so
imposing in ’54 were nearly all killed off by the
“Innamincka” fire 14 years ago. Now, their bleached
naked trunks and limbs strike skyward above a
tangled and luxuriant growth of tree-fern, hazel,
snap-bush and satin-box. Hardy young eucalypts
are everywhere springing up. The ordinary track
winds round spurs and over gully heads to the Cape,
which is now and then visible through the foliage.
On near approach it presents the appearance of a
vast well-ordered vineyard, except where the newlv-
planted marram grass has begun to spread. Swing-
ing downward to the dangerous ford on the Aire,
you plod upward through the shifting sand, and wind
round the spurs towards the Calder swamps, to come
suddenly on a more wonderful panorama than any
you have ever seen. Over the tops of stunted scrub
shows a silver streak where the Aire winds between
high marram-crossed sand-drifts. Away out, the
grey of the horizon, growing bluer and bluer as the
eye travels shorewards; then the white sand of the
beach; the ruddy and slatey sand of the unplanted
drift; the green of grass and tree, and the steel-grey
sandstone battlements of Moonlight Head. Bathe
these in the soft light of an autumn sun, and they
make a color-scheme that would be the despair of
any artist. The preface to Paradise? This is Para-
dise beatified!
* * * *
“9-3-11”: “T.J.M.” (B. 11/5/T1) wants
an ointment that will vote “No, no” to buzz flies on
the injured leg of a horse. Here you are. Ingredi-
ents: Soft soap (procurable at any saddler’s), boracic
acid, lysol, and oil of eucalyptus. Mix two table-
spoonfuls of soft soap, one teaspoonful of oil of euca-
lyptus, half teaspoonful of lysol, and one tablespoon-
ful of boracic acid. (Be careful the lysol doesn’t
burn your fingers.) Allow it to set overnight. In
the morning heat before a fire, and apply with the
tip of a feather. This, besides voting “No, no” to
Buzz and all his relations, will cure the wound in
quick time.
UNEXPECTED SUCCOR.
“ What are you doing under my window? Go
away, or Til call somebody who’ll take
you! ”
“A thoushansh thanksh, lady—if it wouldn't
be (hie) too much trouble.”
ARABELLA.
[FOR THE BULLEITN.]
Gentle reader (I am certain
You are gentle), hear the ditty
Of fair Arabella Curtin:
It will move your heart to pity.
Arabella lived at Bondi;
Though her parents were not wealthy
They looked on her with a fond eycy
And her appetite was healthy:
Arabella’s Pa was making
Money at his own profession ;
He spent all his time in taking
Bottles into his possession:
Arabella’s Ma —a Lady—
Used to take in single boarders',
One of them was ratuer shady—
Two of them were prison-warders.
Arabella’s Ma owned pets—two:
Pip, a pug, and a corella ;
Frequently the twain had sets-to
in the home of Arabella 1
All the gallant single boarders
Paid, as was their bounden duty,
Heed to Arabella’s orders —
Homage at the shrine of Beauty.
One, a newspaper reporter,
Careless of the neighbors’ strictures,
Often ventured to escort her
To the skating-rink or pictures.
One, who dubbed himself a scholar
Thinking to win Arabella,
1 Purchased Pip, the pug, a collar,
And a cage for the corella.
Each of the bold prison-warders
Also urged his haughty suit; he
Cowed the more civilian boarders,
While the other was on duty !
Thus in that bright home Time fleeted—
All the boarders loved her madly !
But a fickle Fortune treated
Arabella very badly!
For a friend, quite well-intentioned,
Said: “Keep single; stand alone, girl I”
When the salary was mentioned
Bella soon became a Thohe-Girl!
This caused grief and consternation
To the loving, hopeful boarders,
And a grim determination
In the slighted prison-warders !
For some months fair Arabella
Revelled in her independence;
Bought new clothes; a new umbrella;
Ties and hose of great resplendence!
And in meditation pensive,
While she listened to the “Hellos!”
And vocab’laries extensive,
Arabella dreamed of fellows —-
Fellows of extreme refinement
Far above the common boarders:
“Boys” select as the confinement
Supervised by the two warders !
Dressed to kill, and eating hearty,
She pursued her way untroubled,
Till there came the Labor party,
And her pay was nearly doubled !
Then she bought a sealskin jacket,
And a huge and floppy chapeau,
Giant hatpins by the packet,
Stockings, gloves and scarves da capo!
And she treated all the boarders,
And their presents, and their passion.
With disdain ; and both the warders
In a patronising fashion!
For she told each humble lover,
Who to win her hand had tarried,
That that nonsense was all over;
She had no wish to get married !
So they left her, and departed—
All except the shady lodger,
Who, though almost broken-hearted.
Was a calculating codger !
All day long she dreamed of dresses
’Mid the clicking and the howling,
And of gems to deck her tresses ;
But the public started growling.
For the public used to ring up—
Ring and ring and RING quite vainly—
Jump, and bang, and stamp and spring up,
Making rude remarks quite plainly !
And its comments were unsparing—
One might never quite forget them;
When the people started swearing
Arabella simply let them !
For some years the game continued—
Arabella’s pay still ris'ng—
If you’d only heard the din you’d
Say, “This is indeed surprising!”
But stern Nemesis was tracking
Her (How far the goddess ranges!),
For a rumor rose of sacking
Her, and closing the exchanges!
Tn its white-hot indignation,
This the public did, nor missed ’em ;
For there was an installation
Of the Automatic System !....
'raholla then got married,
Thinking it would be much nicer,
To the only man who’d tarried ;
But, alas! He proved a twicer!
So t.bcv took him with precision—
Shadiest of all the boarders—
And thev put him in a prison,
Guarded by the haughty warders!
Now the peerless Arabella,
Haded, frayed, and cursed with bunions,
Keeps Pa, Ma, Pip the corella,
And herself by peeling onions!
N.s.w.
O. C. CABOT.


Upon Mr. George Reid has fallen the
duly of ushering the Labor Ministers
into the glare of their new-found
,l or y—the same Oeorge Reid who a
few years ago stumped Australia in
order to show that Labor was .he
tiger’s cub which in its growth would
rend Australia into ruin *
SOUTH AFRICAN MEMORIAL
Major M'incrney said that the monu-
ment on St Kilda-road was not a pub-
lic memorial It was the obligation o*
the citizens of Victoria <o see that Vic-
toria’s baptism ‘n wat should no. gn
unrecorded bv » nations' monument
& r
i,7x- Br.^
yy ' *<* «*»• H,s a*)**? tyti to ' e ™ n '” ** SM,!:
0 0 " J 0< fo Keyhole
/ 0M '"*'<» r j n the match between University
' and Carlton. H. Trood, a University
player, was felled by a cowardly
and unprovoked assault. He was
stunned and carried off the field,
and for some time
lay in the dress-
ing-room unconscious^
Le* S oe
' 'bd.u w«li n**er %^^ a
for \\M te Peolieryjto till
ojLQoe? r « 6/e
r "' i cyoef
~^(<L
‘f^ c . e ( J -nSW - |,9S, l „ jW r s d.-V
'*''- - ........
1
rib The. £verlastihq
memory °f BllLs rt, TH.
Who lost H»S L»ft '
&y TVjl Premature-
£*PLOs'on A
T»H OF MEAT WHlift
Jot*« Kijwwwy
pftiHTEBS Kopje.
IV«"^
THE LAW'S OELAVS
•Thai court proceeding* are Ire*
quently unnecessarily long is a propo-
sition that few men would
be bold enough to deny
Aa*v
y
r
A\a^
>*£-
S'-5 t
MA^
V labour in W a«»-W
t. m a v r»+«c.t>b k of the Con,mo
+iwe wUn you v/owT-be +o
Melbourne. *or it* monam-on+s.
» ►>r>vi ,v », nine *
if*, "r-j |>roW
xlone °f «S
" * ?e,ri ' deprived
v on*' Votes-
"The Princess Duteep Singh <daugb>
let of the Earl of Coventry) has been
fined JE> in a police-court for refusing
to pay a dog-license. The Princess
explained that she . was refusing to
pay the tax as a protest on behalf of
the Suffragettes against being deprived
of a vote "
(\r l f>ersor
tfjaJ w,,<
no+ b* '’unduly cvtietJe y-
~
is
ordin7\r>l
frectis of- '
iKe Courtj ”
THE VICTORIAN VARIETY SHOW.


GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
WORLD-FAMED
For
QUALITY.
HATS.
For
DURABILITY.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
London Daily Mirror says George Reid
is a many-sided man. This evidently refers to
his politics, not to his person.
Peter Peterson, of Rosenthal, near
Warwick (Q.), who died the other day, was a
cousin of Dr. Jameson of the Raid.
Died at Longreach (Q.) on May 17, aged
75, James Hickey, who fought in the Indian
Mutiny, the Burmah War and the last Maori
War. He was one of the ancient pensioners of
the still more ancient East India Company.
JIM ANDERSON, OF ADELAIDE, K. C.
AND SPORTSMAN.
The grammarians are wrong. Australia
was full up of imported sub-excellencies, and now
she’s got Fuller.
Customs Minister Tudor was lately asked
if his department proposed to confiscate the
wooden leg in which a Perth Chinaman had
smuggled ashore certain prohibited goods—opium,
to wit. “ No,” said he, “ but if Ah Sin makes a
regular practice of storing opium in his leg, we
shall have to proclaim it a bonded store.”
“G.L.C.” tells of the fall of a Scotchman :
A chauffeur drove the three Exes.—Bosanquet, Gibson
Carmichael and John Fuller—to the Adelaide hills on
Empire Day. They journeyed to Hahndorf, a pretty
little German hamlet, to see artist Hans Heysen at work.
The chauffeur offered to lead them to the painter’s deu.
“This way, your Excellencies,” he said. “Ah, here we
are at last,” exclaimed Gibson. “No, that isn’t the
studio; that’s the woodshed,” said the guide. The
search for Hans was becoming dry and tiresome, so John
Fuller suggested a drink. Carmichael ordered—a
whisky? No! Champagne? No! A beer—just com-
mon Orstralian beer. And the others followed suit. Now
the price of beer threatens to rise tuppence a bottle.
The Rev. Parfitt, of West Oxford, Canter-
bury (M.L.), has thrown up his billet as Scotch-
byterian parson of the district, and has turned
road-navvy. The trouble was cash. His salary
was £lOO a year, paid at long, hungry intervals,
and he reckons he is better off at Bs. a day paid
regularly. And probably the world is too. There
are comparatively few parsons who wouldn’t
have made better navvies had they been caught
young.
When the M.L. Supreme Court discharged
a writ of attachment the other day against T.
Kennedy Macdonald, M.L.C., in connection with
his trusteeship of an
estate, on the ground
that he is a physical
wreck and that im-
prisonment would im-
peril his life, a long
public life flickered
to a lamentable close.
Macdonald was a man
of many gifts—a bril-
liant speaker, tire-
lessly energetic and
enterprising. He was
founder and director
of the Wellington city
tramways (now muni-
cipal), and of many
other successful com-
mercial concerns, a
member of numerous
Commissions, super-
vising valuer of lands
for the Government
for six years, chairman
of the Wellington
Harbor Board for a
time, and one of
Riel uirdSeddon's chief
confidants, private and
£olitical, all his life.
iast year he was
charged before a Par-
liamentary committee with being party to some
shady land transactions, but was exonerated. The
present trouble appears to be the dead finish.
Nairne Guthrie Elder, the grazier of
Rnkewood (Vic.), who died a little while ago, has
left a six-figure cheque to his widow and children.
His will shows £83,813 real and £24,0(50 personal
estate. Go on the land, young man —though
you’ll have amazing luck if you get there on the
terms that the Elders did.
One of the first jobs awaiting Auckland’s
new Anglican Bishop Crossley was to open a
creche, presented to the “Sisters of the Good
Shepherd” by that generous old giver of good
things, John Logan Campbell. The benefactor
has now had some 95 years’ life, of which 73 have
been spent about Auckland.
The latest freak in the walking-round-the-
world business to reach Australia is a Greek
named Aroantides. He is alleged to be “ a man
of means,” in search of amusement; and, having
walked from Cairo to the Cape, is coming to Syd-
ney intending to set out thence to Fremantle on
foot—for amusement. Some men of means have
quaint notions of amusement.
An old identity of the Chatham Islands,
known as “Chatham Bill,” has gone the way of
all old identities. He was a monster grey shark,
almost as well known as “ Pelorus Jack ” in M.L.,
but minus the popularity. In fact, his attitude
to respectable fishermen in small boats had
become so aggressive of late that the question had
arisen whether Bill should be fed legularly on
fresh fishermen or abolished. Bill having no
vote, his cake was seaweed. He measured 35ft.
at the graveside.
Tom Gibson Carmichael will live in Mel-
bourne remembrance as the jocular Scotchman.
In every speech he delivered he used the term
“joking aside,” which was often the first indica-
tion that he had been joking. But he really made
a joke one hot day in Bendigo, when he paused in
the middle of a speech to mop his spouting brow,
and said to the chairman : “ Man, but the fellow
who invented the habit of joking ought to be
prosecuted for cruelty to Scotchmen.”
“ Floater ” among the prophets :
“ 5.5.,” in his discussion with “ W.R.W.,” declares (B.
18/5/’ll) that Bernard Shaw is an “exuberant appreci-
ator” of Nietzsche. Well, Shaw wrote in the Saturday
Review, about 15 years ago : “ Not for one moment will
I suffer anyone to compare me to him (Nietzsche) as a
critic. Never was there a deafer, blinder, socially and
politically inepter academician. He has fancies concern-
ing different periods of history, idealising the Romans
and the Renaissance, and deducting from his idealisa-
tion no end of excellences in their works... . After this,
one is not surprised to find Nietzsche blundering over
politics and social organisation and administration in a
way that would be impossible to a man who had ever
served on a genuine working committee long enough—
say 10 minutes—to find out how very little attention the
exigencies of practical action can be made to pay to our
theories when we have things to get down, one way or
another.” That hardly shows exuberant appreciation
It would be flattery to call it even mild respect.
Forty-nine years ago James Ashcroft
landed in Maoriland from London, and after a
few dealings with Business, etc., moved
on to Dunedin, where he turned over the page
into the Inky Way column, and for five years was
editor of the stolidly respectable Otago Daily
Times. Subsequently, he was Official Assignee
in Bankruptcy at Dunedin and Wellington,
where he was also Coroner. An aged, gaunt,
cadaverous man, with a penchant for writing
laudatory poems to dead citizens, he looked the
part, and none ever said: “Here comes Ash-
croft ” ; but “ Here comes the Coroner.” Yet
he had his sense of humor, as was shown to some
pressmen in the M.L. Arbitration Court, during
the hearing of a butchers’ dispute. The butchers
wanted increased pay, and this is how Ashcroft
stated the case :
Deftly his bloody trade he plies ;
His bloody hands disgust his dame.
That such a bloody man be paid
Low wages is a ditto shame !
Now Ashcroft has gone on to inquire into the
Eternal Mystery.
An ancient of Neutral Bay, Sydney, Cap-
tain J. G. Barron, crossed the bar last week, aged
7<>. He hailed from the United States, and was a
so iof Senator Joseph Barron, of Topsham. At
tie age of 21 he was a master mariner. He first
a rived in Sydney in 1856 in the Ganymede, sub-
sequently commanded various well-known clip-
p rs, an 1 in 1866 settled down ashore as shipping
agent and providore near Circular Quay. For
some years past lm had been out of business; his
last stan I was in York-street, where a black boy
(i i iron) was stationed on the kerb to hold the
horses of customers who were trading inside.
IN TOPHET.-THE CORONATION
OF FAT.
The National Review (London) talks
thus of Australia’s Governor-General, with a few
other lordlings known to Australia :
.. .. “ Statesmen ”of the intellectual calibre of Lords
Carrington, Beauchamp, Pentland, Denman, Lucas, etc.,
few, if any, of whom would be worth 30s. a week to any
business-man. Their appearance in debate is not infre-
quently a signal for merriment, and the obiter dicta of
Lords Carrington and Denman might be worth preserv-
ing. We trust that the Australians may be able to take
Lord Denman seriously—he is, after all, an authority on
cattle-driving.
There is a nasty sting in that tail.
Ingersoll once said that a man of genius
should be careful in choosing his ancestors.
Similarly mothers should be discriminating in
naming their offspring. The progenitors of
Charles Albert Hugh Thompson Horatio Nelson
Akeroyd doubtless never dreamt that he would
have developed Mormon tendencies, or they would
have called him Brigham. As it is, the Horatio
Nelson part probably merely unsettled him.
Anyway, he appeared at a Melbourne Courts few
days ago and confessed to having wedded three
different ladies—one in 1906. another in 1908, and
a third in 1911. A little while ago an old-age
pensioner died in Victoria who had carrii d
through life the name of E. PlurihusUrium Smith.
Lieutenant-Governor Cullen’s shift into
N.S.W. Government House seems to be only the
second instance on record of the Lieutenant-Gov.
occupying the official residence. The other occa-
sion was when Chief Justice Darley went into
residence in old Govt. House while he was
Acting-Governor. When Hercules Robinson
went to Fiji for six weeks, James Martin, then
Chief Justice, sought the, full honors of Lieut.-
Gov. under the Dormant Commission. Henry
Parkes, however, blocked him, chiefly because,
though Hercules was away, Lady Robinson was
“ still in residence.” The outcome of that little
episode was the appointment of Alfred Stephen
as Lieutenant-Governor.
Some London newspapers noticed recently
the birthday of Richard Crichton, who reached
the century on April 3. It is said that he was
the oldest voter to go to the poll in England in
January last year. In 1839 Crichton came to
Australia, and he, his brother and an army sur-
geon named Hill became partners in a sheep run,
“40 miles from Sydney Harbor.” Twenty years
later Crichton went back to England and settled
at Caterham. Until he was 97 he played billiards
every day, and, though lie has given up the game
now, he has been following the feats of Gray with
vast interest, and claims him as a fellow-Austra-
lian. The old gentleman belongs to the family of
Crichtons of Cluny, who claim the Admirable
Crichton as an ancestor.
Concerning the lately-dead manager of
L mdon Times :
Moberley Bell, lately dead—the Times werit into
blackened columns as for a monarch—hit the eye of the
Times with stuff, curiously enough, which it wouldn’t
and didn’t print. Bell as a very young man went to
Egypt (where he had been born) as a clerk. He observed
that, with a little ingenuity, news could be got to
England two or three days before the Times usually got
it. So he began sending, and won the billet of correspon-
dent. While the Canal was being made he walked from
Port Said to Suez, and wrote a splendid account for the
big paper. That was the article that made Delane and
Walter sit up. But the Times believed that the Canal was
“ a great mistake,” so the stuff was basketed, though the
writer was remembered. Still no big chance came his
way until the Arabi Pasha war, wherein he did so well
that soon afterwards he was called to London as assistant
manager. John Walter the Third had the Times on the
road to ruin ; the Parnell business was only one of his
blunders. Bell, especially when he got the reins fully,
had the tremendous job of rescuing it. There has been
unbounded sarcasm over what have been called his fads —
the Book Club, “Encyclopaedia Britannica,” enormous
supplements and so forth. There would have been none
of these things, though, if the second and greatest
John Walter had been succeeded by Moberley Bell at the
helm. The paper would have kept up its prestige. But
that was irrevocably gone, and Bell had to play a bad
hand. It was very generally agreed that he inade the
best of it; so he departs in what almost amounts to a
blaze of glory.
Australia’s most eloquent blind man died
last week—Anderson Gardiner. Seotchbyterian
parson of Manly (Sydney). He was not always
blind ; a hunting accident in his young and unre-
generate days started the trouble which elided in
total eclipse. A fine, forbearing, liberal-minded
old man he was, inside the tabernacle as well as
out of it.
For the fourth time within about five
years Percy Hunter, director of Ma’s Intelligence
Department, has been granted a round-the-world
trip at the Government expense. He left the
other day for America, for the second time this
year, with his luggage labelled, “Percy Hunter,
Immigration Agent, etc., N.S.W.” The letters
N.S.W. stand for, “Now ! Stop Winking.”
Vivian Lewis, managing director of the
limited co. that bears his name, did an uncntn-
tnonly decent thing in Adelaide after the High
Court had inflicted fines of £B4O fob breaches of
the Customs Act. He called the shareholders
together and told them that he (1) had paid the
fine himself; (2) intended to pay all the heavy
costs himself; and (3) resigned the position of
managing-director. And the meeting, with every
appearance of spontaneous enthusiasm, declined
to let him do any of the things.
Passed to his fathers a week or two ago,
at the Runnymede aborigines’ home, “ Old
Devil,” one of the most ancient of the full-blooded
blacks on the N.S.W. Northern Rivers. Years
ago, before the splay foot of the cow had dese-
crated the Upper Richmond, the Rev. Henry
Porter (first incumbent of St. Mark’s, Casino)
was introduced to “Old Devil.” Said the rev.
gentleman: “Why don’t you get another name ?
Devil too much bad.” With a goburra burst of
laughter, “Old Devil” answered : “Allri, you
change too. Porter too much likeit drink.”
“Christian Berriel,” regarding some vio-
lent people:—
The first, person hanged in Australia was a hardened
ruffian of 17, whose brittle tvtts robbery. ItoWeVfer, they
Were satisfied to hang him only once. Joe Samuels, in
1803, they strung up three times, and each time the rope
broke. Then the Governor reprieved him. In 1830
another “ hardened criminal ” of 17 fought for his life on
the scaffold, and gave the executioner such a bad time
that he wanted to throw up his job. When Owen
McQueeny was hanged in Melbourne in 1858, a woman
made a peculiar request for permission to “ have her
hands streaked over with the hands of the dead man.’
James Murphy was hanged at Geelong in 1863, the exe-
cutioner being an old mate who, according to the
chronicle of the time, “ was much affected at having to
officiate on a friend.” Elizabeth Scott, the first woman
hanged in Victoria, was disposed of half an hour before
the time publicly announced, fears of a disturbance
being entertained. When Michael Flanigan, an ex-
mounted constable, was executed in Melbourne in 1867,
lie dressed for death in his uniform. John Weechworth,
suspended in Melbourne in 1875, remarked on the scaffold
that he had never known a thief die worth a shilling—
which only showed that John’s acquaintance with thieves
had run on narrow lines. Possibly the most touching inci-
dent connected with an execution is of comparatively
recent date. When John Coleman was hanged at Ade-
laide two or three years ago, every man at the fish-
market (where Coleman was a dealer) bared his head as
the clock struck eight, and remained silent for a few
minutes while the executioner (several miles away) was
doing his work.
GODLEY,
BOSS OF
THE
MAORI-
LAND
FORCES.
About a big man who seems to have come
to the end of his tether :
There was a beastly promptness about Porfirio Diaz
that had a lot to rlo with his long and lucrative rule in
Mexico. He always knew who to strike, and he struck
like lightning. Once he was all but caught; napping. The
old man had a weakness for pretty women, and the
conspirators,found one who infatuated him. She was an
American adventuress. One night she gave a small,
select and absolutely secret dancing party—it wasn’t
large enough to be dignified by the name of a ball. This
was in 1889, a few weeks after Marshal Fonseca had de-
throned Dom Pedro 11. of Brazil, and the conspirators
accepted the success of the Brazilian revolution as a
happy augury. Diaz had been lured to the dance, and in
the middle of a waltz he found himself looking down the
barrel of a revolver, while a man in uniform informed
him he was under arrest and had been deposed. Diaz
sneezed, tried to speak; sneezed again, and reached for
his handkerchief as he sneezed a third time. At last out
it .came; a bang, and the captor rolled dead, shot
t hrough the brain. Then Diaz made a break for the win-
dow, and with bullets whistling round him escaped to
the barracks of a regiment he knew he could rely upon.
That revolution was stamped out in two hours.
RHEUMATIC PAINS RELIEVED.
“I have been a great sufferer from rheumatism,”
writes Mrs. Jane Pierce, 1340 Sturt Street, Ballarat,
Vic. “The excruciating pains have caused me hours
of misery. I thought I would never get relief, but
the first bottle of Chamberlain’s Pain Balm showed
me it was possible. Now at the first signs of the
rheumatic pains returning I apply hot fomentations,
then rub Chamberlain’s Pain Balm well in,, and it
certainly wards off what used to be days of pain
and suffering.”* ,
A SERIOUS OMISSION.
[FOR THE BULLEITN.]
By the steamev Comrie there has been shipped to Lon-
don 231 mammals, birds and reptiles, for King George’s
collection. The consignment is described as the finest
ever shipped.— Cable.
The thought has oft occurred to me,
How well acquainted George must be
With toads !
The dreadful things as cold as stone
That crawl round ev’ry standing throne !
He must know loads of toads 1
Just think how many solemn owls
He must encounter when he prowls—
Yes, owls !
Vipers and asses, foxes too ;
Why, ev’ry king must owrn a zoo,
Including lots of owls. \
From us George has the fleet e-mu,
Also the bounding kangaroo—
Our ’Roo.
The speed3' thing of quaint design
Upon whose tail the bushmen dine—
The queer, delicious ’roo.
But this is what I want. I wish
To know if there’s a certain Fish—
Yes, h'ish !
In that immense and costly lot?
’Tis not complete if it has not
The Australian Stinking Fish !
N.S.W.
THE FISHMONGER.


m
m
M
| H
hE£3
H
HI
ft
y
Pi
a
m
’A
i* n
fflSSj
H
is
PBB
m
l&K
-
m
m
Bajgjll
'•v. 1
wSSi.
B
R®®gs
i
mm?®
m
<o7)
SKSs
H
; m
a SB
I! S
H I
B 8
1
H
iuTUTtS
H 1
“CUT.
V
N “THE AUSTRAL SUIT,” there is everything in the cut —ease, comfort and style.
As regards our range of tweeds, these have been selected from an experience extending ovei
43 years —we were established in 1868 —and we specialise in Australian woollens, all wool,
are wool and nothing but wool,” made by our old friends, Vicars of Marrickville
We quote 635., 705., 755. machine made, or 845., 905., 95 s -> io s s - hand made, and, on
:ceipt of a postcard, will send you full range of patterns with self-measurement form.
ĥ
Pioneer Distributors of Australian Goods,
486, 488, 490 George Street; and 7,9, 11, 13, 15
and 17 Royal Arcade, Sydney.


PERKS, DANE & CO. PTY. LTD.
MELBOURNE
and SYDNEY.
** P.D.” Grease & “ P.D.” Yarn
90 per cent, cheaper than any other system of lubrication.
PULL PARTICULARS ON APPLICATION.
The WILD CAT
COULMN
The Bank of New South Wales
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Mar., ’04.. £119,582 10 p.c. =£loo,ooo £19,582 £1,368,024
Sept.,’o4.. 120,435 10 ~ „ 100,U00 20,435 1,388,459
Mar.,’os.. 127,811 10,, ~ 10 1, 000 27,811 1,416,270
Sept.,’os.. 126,963 10 ~ ~ 100,000 26,963 1,443,233
Mar.,’o6.. 129,385 10 „ ~ 100,000 29.385 1,472,618
Sept.,’o6.. 130,115 10 ~ ~ 100,000 31,115 1,502,733
><V7 /141,581 10 „ ~ 10’,000 26,581 I , . w ,
‘ " (Voted to Provident Fund 15,000 / i ’’ ’
Sept.,’o7.. 142,966 10 p.c. = 110,635 32,331 1,561,645
Mar.,’oB.. 156,742 10 ~ „ 124,399 32,343 1,593,988
Sept,.,’oB.. 167,928 10 ~ ~ 125,000 42,928 1,636,916
Mar.,’oo.. 176,426 10 „ „ 125,000 51,426 1,688,342
Sept.,’o9.. 182,362 10 „ „ 125,000 57,362 1,745,704
Mar., TO.. 178,939 10 „ ~ 125,000 53,939 1,79.),643
Premiums on new share-’.. 56,720 1,856,363
Sept.,TO.. 184,689 10 p.c. = 133,709 50,980 1,907,343
Premiums on new shaves.. 46,735 1,954,078
Mar.,’ll.. 20L,492 10 p.c. = 143,457 58,635 2,012,113
If this country was not full of false prophets, this
bank would be in a bad way by now. Federation
was going to do dreadful things to N. S. Wales,
where its headquarters are; and what Federation
didn’t do, Socialistic legislation would —it was going
to drive capital out, and wear General-Manager
Russell French to a shadow. To do him justice,
General-Manager Russell French didn’t join the false
prophets in regard to Federation, at any rate. What
is probably worrying him now is, not that capital
is flying, but that so much of it wants to stay that
he can’t find safe and profitable use for it. This
shows how present totals compare with those of 10
years ago:—
Mar., ’Ol. Mar.,’ll.
Notes and bills. £3,836,352 £6,729,590 Inc. £2,893,238
Deposits.. .. 21,596,076 33.265,497 Inc. 11,675 4-1
Liquid assets .. 8,081,992 16,656,056 Inc. 8,574,065
Bills receivable
and advances.. 20,074,426 27,771,302 Inc. 7,696,876
Premises.. .. 655,000 740,000 Inc. 85,000
Thus in a single decade the deposits have increased
by over 50 p.c. And without a doubt the improve-
ment has been greater than even the figures indicate,
because of the large increase in the value of many
of the assets.
Ten or 15 years back there wasn’t a bank in Aus-
tralia which didn’t have more or less inoperative
accounts; the banks were really waiting for a chance
either to force their clients to realise or to realise
themselves. The past 10 years-—-the past five, especi-
ally—have immensely favored these realisations;
hence, even though a bank didn’t show any increase
in advances at all, it might be in a very much im-
proved position through getting live accounts in ex-
change for dead ones. Triie, having got rid of one
lot of troubles, this and other banks may be laying
the foundations for another lot. Generally, how-
ever, it is quite clear that a very cautious policy
is being pursued. One great thing in their favor is
that, in spite of the very large increase in clients
and business, there has been no addition to the
banks of Australia for nearly 25 years; so they
have not been driven by more ffirious competition
into a policy of which their better judgment dis-
approved. What they really need now is a larger
range of business. They will get that when it is
made quite clear that Australia’s settled policy is
effective Protection. Nothing is so disastrous as
uncertainty. It is the same with wages, etc. Tell
the manufacturer or other business sfpian what he
has got to pay, and he can work out; (the rest of the
problem for himself. If, instead of Itumping their
heads vaguely against Arbitration, Wages Boards,
New Protection, etc., Trade and Coiriifaierce'.would
ask for stability, they would be doing more, good for
themselves and the country. And then the ,B.N,S.W.
mightn’t think it necessary to keep 53 p.c. of\ its
deposits and other public money stowed away in. the
vaults or held in other liquid forms.
V-.\\ U -
In 12 months the changes have been as follows: —
March, TO. March, ’ll.
Notes .. .. £1,149,153 £1,218,534 Inc. £69,381
Bills, etc. .. 4,330,772 5,511,056 Inc. 1,180,284
Deposits .. 30,348,580 33,265,497 Inc. 2,916,917
Liquid assets .. 18,990,204 21,395,066 Inc. 2,404,862
Advances .. 20,561,443 22,932,291 Inc. 2,370,848
Premises .. 706,500 740,"00 Inc. 33,50)
In consequence of the rapid growth of deposits, the
bank a while ago decided to get in more snare capi- ,
tal. Ten years ago it was £2,000,000. Subse-';
quently it was increased to £2,500,000. Last year.
it was decided to issue another 25,000 new £2O
shares at a premium of £5. Practically all that money
was paid in last half-year ; some of it, being prepaid,
bore 5 p.c. In the table on top of these remarks
the profit is shown less this interest. Yet so ex-
ceedingly plentiful has public money been, and so
much of it’ has been pressed on this bank, that the
public money exceeds £8 for every £1 of the
shareholders’ money (capital and reserves). That
would mean large risks under ordinary circum-
stances ; but in this case the risk is much re-
duced on account of so large a proportion of the
public money being in liquid assets, which involve
hardly any risk of losses.
Owing to the new capital falling in from time to
time, it is impossible to say exactly what the profits
are, calculated on capital and reserves combined.
Approximately, they are equal to £8 7s. p.c.—
which isn’t anything extra; several Australian banks
show much better. But the policies of banks differ.
Some prefer to have big hidden reserves, wherefore
(for example) they write their premises down to
almost nothing. A bank which pursues that policy
will, of course, show large earnings in proportion
to capital and visible reserves. No doubt the
B.N.S.W. has something up its sleeve too; but it
does not write its premises down so hard, and the
chances are that its accounts show its real position
much more faithfully than those of some other
very prosperous Australian banks do.
* * * *
The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance
Society, Ltd. :
Added
Provided to In-
Ex- for Depre- surance
Dec., Income. Claims. penses. ciation. Fund.
1899.. £409,744 £209,907 £75,832 £124,005
1900.. 406,428 218,526 77,735 £67,969 42,198
1901.. 412,816 226,783 79,577 106.450
1902.. 429.263 226,512 81,002 121,749
1903.. 438,825 236,874 87,731 114,220
1904.. 454,758 248,313 95,175 111,270
1905 . 461,663 281,453 101,078 50,000 29,132
1906.. 466,326 335,946 104,564 25,!-16
1907.. 483,486 273,080 107,141 103,2t5
1908 . 488,932 321,453 98,473 69 000
1909.. 482,038 307,035 86,915 50,000 38,088
Standard Lif9(business secured.
1910.. 557,103 333,339 115,976 107,788
In life assurance nothing succeeds like success.
When an office has to fight hard for every policy it
writes, and then loses very many of them before they
have got out of baby-clothes, it is almost bound to
show a high expense rate; and an office with that
sort of rate finds it almost impossible to pay glit-
tering bonuses; and an office that can’t hold out
glittering bonuses has to fish without the most at-
tractive of all baits —for the -flathead especially;
and in finance there are more flatheads on land than
there are mullet at sea. The Colonial Mutual got
into the backwash. It tried many little schemes to
pull itself out into the stream; but none succeeded.
Among other things, it crowded on local Boards —
mostly poor—and it pushed into S’Afriea and Eng-
land, and thereby gave its competitors the chance to
say that it was busiest where it was least known.
But it got very little for’arder. One of its troubles
was that a great proportion of its funds was in
freeholds and leaseholds; and when the public viewed
that fact, and noted, moreover, that the average in-
terest return was extremely low, it sniffed, said
“Foreclosures!” and probably also “Rotten securi-
ties!” and crossed over the road to the opposition
shop. In 1895 the eo. had a renewal premium in-
come of £282,615; in 1907, after 12 years’ constant
raking, the total had only risen to £305,139.
Things had, however, begun to improve. Many
changes were made in the management; new officers
arrived, who, not having themselves been responsible,
didn’t mind pulling aside the curtain and showing
that there was dirt and wreckage to be cleared out.
Also, as it happened, time and tide were helping
the office. A big “Properties” item in an insurance
balance-sheet doesn’t smell so much like a stranded
whale as it did a few years ago. Suburban allot-
ments are not yet, as a rule, at the idiotic level
of the early ’9o’s; but cos. that were landed with
city and country lands have mostly been able to get
out with a long sigh of relief and a bit more solid
in some cases. The most uncertain feature about
the Colonial Mutual’s accounts nowadays is that,
instead of the freehold and leasehold item being re-
duced, it has actually been increased. This shows
the assets now and 10 years ago put into a few
large heaps:—
1900. 1910.
Cash and deposits .. £246,768 £112,066
Public securities.. .. 245,142 335.772
Mortgages 1,028,395 1,475,945
Freeholds and leaseholds 650,551 875,789
Other assets .. .. 620,838 460,905
Total .. .. £2,791,694 £3,260,477
Now see how the heaps look in proportion to the
aggregate:—
1900. 1910.
Cash and deposits .. 8 - 9 p.c. 3 5 p.c.
Public securities .. 8 8 ~ 10’3 ~
Mortgages .. .. 36’8 ~ 45'3 „
Freeh Ids, etc. .. 23'3 ~ 26'9 ~
Other assets .. .. 22"2 ~ 14‘0 ~
Thus freeholds and leaseholds actually form a larger
proportion of the whole now than they did 10 years
back. Still the property assets must have im-
proved in value; if 10 years ago a management
had deliberately tried to select property which
would show no increment in value in the next de-
cade, it could scarcely have succeeded.- The ex-
planation of most of the growth of the item no
doubt is that many securities which formerly figured
as loans on mortgage have of recent years been
foreclosed by the new management. It is to be
hoped that this represents a thorough cleaning up;
for by this time the Colonial Mutual ought to be
quite convinced that nothing does so much damage
to an insurance office as a doubt about the value of
the funds —and very rightly so, too. That there
has been an improvement in the value of the assets
is pretty clearly indicated by the improvement in
the interest earnings:—
Interest Earned on Average Funds.
1903 .. £3 19 8 per cent. 1907 .. £3 16 9 per cent.
1904 ..414 ~ 1908 .. 411
3905 .. 317 11 „ 1909 .. 4 3 3
1906.. 318 1 „ 1910.. 4 310
It still isn’t all that it should be, considering that
so little is in public securities; but its nose is
turned the right way.
The first table mentions that the business of the
Standard Life Association has been acquired. The
Colonial Mutual says it wanted a ready-made Indus-
trial organisation, wherefore this purchase. As at
June, 1909, the Standard’s liabilities were valued by
the co.’s own consulting actuary at £98,949, and
the funds, apart from shareholders’ capital, amounted
to only £38,203, leaving a deficiency of no less
than £60,746. The Colonial Mutual not only took
over the policies, but paid for the business—actually
paid shareholders of the Standard to relieve them
of their heavy liability. But the Colonial Mutual has
had a good time lately, and is thus able to pay a
much larger bonus than usual, and still provide for
the bulk of the Standard deficiency. The Industrial
department reckons the balance as an asset —
£22,000 “value of business and organisation secured
bv the purchased control of the Standard Life.”
This item will no doubt disappear when the office
can spare the profit to wipe it out. Besides the
Industrial business, the office took over 4795 Ordin-
ary policies, and a quantity of accident bus'ness from
the Standard. This big lump of new business has
not, however, been got cheaply, so the expense rate
is still high:—
Expenses Compared with Total Income.
1901 .. £l9 5 6 per cent. 11906 i. £22 8 8 per cent.
1902 .. 18 17 5 „ 1907 .. 22 3 2
3903.. 19 19 10 „ I 1908.. 20 210
1)04 .. 20 18 7 „ I 1909 .. 18 0 7
1905 .. 21 17 10 „ | 3910 .. 20 16 4
'The policies taken over from the Standard are in-
cluded with the new business. The Bulletin’s
practice, in order to ascertain the cost of new
business, is to charge renewal premiums 7 p.c. and
annuity business 3 p.c., and regard the balance of
-expenses as incurred in connection with new busi-
ness. On that basis the cost of the latter was
82 p.c. of the first year’s premiums. But the big
-lump of Standard business has probably brought the
years new-business rate below the normal. In 1909
it was 138 p.c.; and that was a thick slice under
previous records. If the office, getting business in
the ordinary way, can write it at anything under 100
p.c., it may very well wear an extra feather or two in
its office-duster, if it doesn’t care about wearing them
in its hat. Seven years ago even that much didn’t
seem possible. If the society’s prospects improve
in the next seven years as they have in the past
seven, far better things than a 100 p.c. new-business
expense rate are possible.
The Industrial department was established during
1909. The earlv history of every try to establish
an Industrial business is a history of heavy expendi-
ture. The position, after 18 months’ work, is that
this society owes:—
Ordinary department (advances) .. ..£37,609
Guarantee Fund . . ' . . .. .. 230
On policies issued .. .. .. .. 51,370
Total . . . . : £89,209
And all it has in the way of tangible assets is
£7048, which includes office furniture and sundries.
The deficit is represented by that shadowy item called
Extension of Organisation Account. It is a pretty
tough proposition to face. Of course a large part
of that big deficit was taken over from the Stan-
dard.
The new Accident department seems to be shaping
very well. Premiums totalled £6460; and, after
paying claims and exes., and allowing for unexpired
risks, a profit of £lOO2 for the year is estimated.
The Carlton Brewery, Ltd. (Melbourne) :
• Deficit
(Goodwill
To- not
wards Reckoned
Dec., Profits. Dividends. Reserves, an Asset).
1900 .. £15,533 Nil £15,533' £371,048
1901 .. 26,712 Nil 26,712 344,336
1902 .. 21,443 Nil 21,443 322,893
1903 .. 11,024 3 p.c. =£B37. 10;i87 312,706
£4OOO added to goodwill 316,706
1004 .. 17,788 3 p.c. = 956 16,832 299.874
1905 .. 4,911 3 „ „ 1183 3,728 296,146
1906 .. 7,612 3 „ „ 1183 6,429 289,717
Goodwill item nominally extinguished 135,717
1907 .. 4,103 3p.c. = 1184 2,919 1 32,798
190 S .. 10,594 3 ~ „ 1184 9,410 123,388
, Reserves.
Assets written up, £386,371 .. .. 262,983
1909 .. 15,058 3 p.c. = 1184 13,874 276,857
Unexplained additions .. 18,872 205,729
1910 .. 26,202 5 p.c. = 2017 24,185 319,914
The profit figures in the last line don’t quite tally
with those in the published accounts. The totals in
the last two lines are made up this way:—
Added to “ Surplus account” .. .. £18,872
Profit for year (P. &L. account).. .. 27,194
Added to plant depreciation account .. 177
■ £46,243
Less written off freeholds depreciation
reserve . 1,169
Total net additions for year .. £46,074
The “Surplus Account” mentioned above calls for
some explanation ; for that matter, so does the whole
table. We had better recall the history of the con-
cern :
1895. —Carlton and West End Breweries, Ltd.,
still in existence, though feeling very sick after the
collapse of the- boom. Capital, £240,000 ; liabili-
ties, mostly debentures, £893,502.
1896. —Carlton Brewery, Ltd., formed. Assets re-
valued, and property written down from £671,354
to £316,225. All but about £40,000 of the old
capital written off.
1903. —New arrangement made with the creditors
under which the debenture-holders were to get half
the profit in reduction of debt; this made it pos-
sible to pay a small div. out of the other half. Div.
promptly paid.
1905. —Victoria Brewerv bought with 75,000 new
shares, paid to 2s.
1906. —Carlton and United Breweries, Ltd.,
formed, better known as the Melbourne Brewery
Combine. Carlton Brewery, Ltd., allotted 40 p.c.
of the capital in the new concern. Goodwill had
hitherto stood in the books at £150,000. This was
nominally wiped out, the item being thereafter in-
cluded in “shares held in other companies”—mainly,
of course, the C. and U. 8., Ltd.
1909-10. —Assets (written down in 1896) re-
valued. The estimated depreciation in 1896 was
£355,129; and small sales of the properties
( £10,968) were subsequently made. The re-valua-
tion of all assets, new and old, resulted in a writ-
ing-up of £386,371. The premises of the Carlton
and the Victoria breweries are valued at the amounts
at which the C. and U. 8., Ltd., holds options of
purchase. Before that re-writing-up of assets
the balance-sheet showed a debit balance, caused by
depreciation, of £261,302. When the assets were
written up by £386,371, the differcnce( £125,069)
was shown as a “Surplus Account.” To that in
1909 £4365 was added without explanation; and
last year another £18,872 was added, also without
explanation.
It is not at all certain where this extra “surplus”
comes from. Part of it may be from the sale of
properties. The real estate was 12 months ago
valued at £318,087. This has now been reduced
to £306,418; -and probably some sales have been
made at something beyond the written down values.
Then there may also have been profits from other
investments and holdings. Besides this co.’s large
interest in the Melbourne brewery combine—-the
Carlton and United Breweries Proprietary—it owns
the Victoria brewery ; and the profit from the latter
holding, totalling £16,175, has not been divided.
Apparently this amount has not been taken into
Profit and Loss, and it may be included in the year’s
addition to the Surplus Account. The co.’s holding
in the combine has a face value of £40Q,000. The
combine issues no accounts, but the Shamrock 00.
lately showed a return of about 10 p.c. on its hold-
ing, and, allowing for adjustments, probably 9 p.c.
was paid. That meant £36,000 for this Carlton Co.
In the early part of this post-mortem it was ob-
served that the co. had a heavy debenture debt. It
still owes a very solid amount. This shows:
1903. 1908. 1909. 1910.
Mortgage debentures £563,495 £538,537 £532,255 £524,278
Mortgages .. ... 186,706 197,'92 189,359 180,571
Other debts .. .. 67,583 5,787 15,087 21,374
That £726,223 is a heap of debt for a co. with a
share capital of only £40,347. At the same time,
it has to be remembered that the capital was written
down very severely on a revaluation which took too
gloomy a view of the situation. Or, rather, perhaps,
it was a just enough valuation at the time, but very
properly didn’t allow for the great improvement
which subsequently arrived vvhen the cut-throat com-
petition was stopped, and, when at the same time
or thereabouts Melbourne property values began to
jump ahead, keeping pace with the State’s general
prosperity. With a big debt carrying a fixed rate of
interest, the surplus revenue available as profit must
show very large ups and downs. For instance, if
the assets represented by the debt only earn 1 per
cent, more in one year than in another, it makes a
difference of, say, £7250 in the profits, equal to no
less than 18 p.c. on the total share capital. Half
the profit must, however, go in reduction of the de-
benture debt. But that sort of repayment is all to
the good of the shareholders. If you owe £lO,OOO
on your business, and that £lO,OOO is represented
by premises or plant, and you pay £5OOO off out of
profits, you are still £5OOO to the good, because you
really own that much more premises or plant than
you did previously. Still, while the position is good
in that way, the big fact sticks out that very nearly
all of the £400,000 represented by the combine
shares is paper—that is to say, goodwill. If the com-
bine fell to pieces—a thing which this paper cer-
tainly doesn’t expect—the bulk of that value would
disappear, and along with it all the reserves and
capital. In fact, there would be a deficit, just as
there was before the combine was formed and the
goodwill item created.
The Swan Brewery Co., Perth (Westralia)
W ri t-
ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
Mar., ’04.. 29,717 32 p.c. =16,213 346 13,158 128,601
Premiums on new share issue .. 5,265 133,866
Sept.,’o4.. 19,571 24 p.c. =12,174 326 7,071 140,137
Securities wrii ten up .. .. 1,350 142,287
Mar., ’05..24,706 32 p.c. = 16,232 238 8,236 150,523
Sept., ’05.. 19,668 24 „ ~ 12,174 267 7,222 157,745
Mar., ’06..24,383 32 „ ~16,232 186 7,965 165,710
Sept.,’o6.. 13,038 24 ~ ~12,174 832 32 165,742
(And Div. Tax.)
Mar., ’07..24,601 24 p.c. =12,783 617 11,201 176,943
Sept.,’o7.. 14,528 24 „ ~12,783 1020 725 177,668
Mar., ’08..22,829 24 „ ~12,783 786 9,260 186,928
5ept.,’08..15,265 24 „ ~12,783 697 1,785 188.713
Mar., ’09..24,743 24 „ ~12,783 1777 10,183 198,896
Sept., ’O9. ,17,355 24 ~ ~12,783 1500 3,072 201,968
Mar., ’10..27,223 24 ~ ~ 12,783 2229 12,211 214,179
(Pref. div., 6 p.c.)
Sept., T0..17,350| 2 g p -° , =l2 j-1167 2,954 217,133
Mar., ’ll. .35,424 j 2 g ” ” 12 ’|®f } 2972 18,842 235,975
This co. was formed in Melbourne in the wild boom
days, when almost anything was good enough to
hang a co. on. Westralia was then mostly , regarded
in the Eastern States as a large, distant patch, chiefly
sand. Consequently, when the liquidators of boom
banks, etc., began to put on the screw, this co. was
forgotten; and in Perth itself it seems to have been
managed just anyhow. Then came the gold dis-
coveries, and with them a magnificent thirst. The
eo., which had been forfeiting shares freely, had
been getting its house in order, and the faster the
thirst grew the more the co. prospered. At the end
of 1900 (or as close to the end as the accounts
bring us) a reserve of £58,155 had been accumu-
lated. Then 20,290 new 255. shares were issued at a
premium of 205., and the £20,290 was put to re-
serves. The balance of the reserves, which now
stand at £235,975, has been made up out of un-
divided profits—£ls7,s3o in 101 years. And all
the time phenomenal divs. have been paid—mostly
24 or 32 p.c. Twelve months ago the share capital
was £101,450, in 81,160 shares of 255. each. They
were then all ordinaries. There was an overdraft,
though one not worth worrying about; and ap-
parently the directors thought shareholders might
as well have a chance to earn the interest that the
bank was getting; so 50,000 6 p.c. cumulative pref.
£ 1 shares were created, and 26,253 were issued. Or-
dinary shares, with cumulative prefs. waiting in
front of them for the first bite, are, of course, not
so good a risk as ordinaries which are entitled to
the first bite themselves. In this case, however, the
proportion of pref. capital compared with ordinary
capital is so small that the ordinaries’ position re-
mains very nearly as good as ever it was.
The liabilities amount to £46,649, the bulk of
which has been borrowed on mortgage of hotel pro-
perties. This holding of hotel properties may be a
weak point. Among assets totalling £404,714, the
property items are as follow:—
Brewery lands and buildings . £76,976
Hotels 204,1189
O.her freeholds, etc. .. .. 2,421
Tot al .. .. £253,6^6
All that is in at cost; nothing has been written off
against depreciation. No doubt Perth properties
have appreciated enormously in value during the
past 20 years, and verv likely some of the properties
bought in the earlier years of the co. are worth six
or eight times more than was paid for them. Hence
it is quite probable that the appreciation has coun-
terbalanced the depreciation. But that doesn’t alter
the fact that there has been wear and tear and decay
of oremises, and that that wear and tear and decay
is a charge against the revenue under normal con-
ditions. The time will almost certainly come when
the depreciation will equalise the appreciation (un-
less, of course, large sums are spent on renewals,
and paid for out of revenue and charged to working
expenses) ; and after tnat something will have to
be written off for depreciation. In other words, so
far a large bite out of the profits has only been
rendered unnecessary by the big increase in the
value of the assets bought in the earlier days of the
co. The small amounts shown in the table as written
off have been in reduction of the “Leasehold liabil-
ity guarantee and trade account.” In addition, some-
thing is regularly written off for depreciation of
machinery, plant jnd furniture; brewery plant and
machinery, which cost £92,954, has thus now been
reduced to a kook value of £40,121.
Presumably with the idea of reducing the size of
the dividend, which is bloated enough to attract at-
tention, it is now proposed to double the ordinary
shares, paying for the new shares out of the reserve
fund ; this will mean the transfer of £101,450 to capi-
tal account. The profits for the past half-year would
be equal to paying more than 24 p.c. on the watered
capital; but, then, the profits for the past half-year
were unusually bloated, though there is nothing in
the accounts to explain the bloat.
* * * *
The Sandhurst ,and Northern District
Trustees, Executors and Agency 00. (Bendigo, Vic.):—
Added
Written to Re- Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves. serves.
1899.. £1174 5 p.c. =£looo £174 £2,234
1900.. 1273 5 „ ~ 1000 273 2,507
1901.. 2365 s£„ ~ 1100 1265 3,772
1902.. 1452 6 „ ~ 1200 252 4,024
1903.. 2386 7,, ~ 1400 986 5,010
1904.. 3091 8,, ~ 1600 1491 6,501
1905.. 4156 10 ~ ~ 2000 2156 8,657
1906.. 3092 10 ~ ~ 2000 1092 9,749
1907.. 3592 10 ~ ~ 2000 £750 842 10,591
1908.. 1922 8„ ~ 1600 322 10,913
1909.. . 2415 10 „ ~ 2000 415 11,328
191.0.. 2801 8,, ~ 1600 1201 12,529
The profits for last year included £550 transferred
to a Commissions Account,; this is probably an
amount not yet fully earned. The paid capital is
£20,000, in 40,000 £1 shares paid to 10s. ; this
and the reserves are in public securities (£10,000),
office property and mortgages. The co. does a steady
and highly remunerative business, and its prospects,
like (hose of every other well-managed trustee co., are
excellent; for there is no doubt at all about the
growth of the tendency to hand over trustee and
executor business to people who are trained to do it,
and have the organisation, and, moreover, give guar-
antees that it will be done properly.
Solomon Islands Development Co. —
This co. was hatched in Burns, Philp’s Sydney office
about four years ago to acquire and develop proper-
ties in the Solomons. There was, of course, a lot
of planting and other preliminary work to be done,
and 12 months ago, when the third annual meeting
was held, the co. had called up £27,820 of capital,
while it owed £3391 on various accounts, and had
received £1175 for produce; and on the other side
it had estates, plantations, etc.-, and £2891 of cash
and book debts.* In the past ,12 months a gross re-
venue of £ 2548 has been got from trading (mostly
produce sold) ; and besides a further expenditure of
capital (which now amounts to £30,910), some
further debts have been contracted. The liabilities
to the public (including laborers) amount to £5981 ;
and the cash and book debts have been reduced to
£l6ll. The subscribed capital is £61,800, in £lOO
shares, of which £5O has now been called up. This
current year another £l5 is to be got in. No
Profit and Loss account is submitted; but of the
year’s revenue of £2548, it is stated by the direc-
tors that approximately half represents the cost of
production. If that is so, the net revenue for the
year was equal to 4 p.c. on the capital. Whether
the estimated cost of production includes deprecia-
tion is, however, uncertain; and, anyway, with so
much development work still in progress, the figures
must be little better than guess-work. The pro-
moters did originally expect to pay a dividend at
this time; but the usual troubles have occurred.
The co. builds its hopes very largely on colored
labor, and the South Sea Islander won’t rush to
enlist for hard, regular work at the mere raising
of even “Beepy’s” finger. He can get most things
he wants without that kind of toil, so he generally
wants to know why he should toil. Hence, so far,
the cultivation consists only of the folowing: Cocoa-
nuts, 1626 acres; para rubber, 62| acres; sisal
hemp, 15 acres. Bananas and maize are planted
between the permanent crops. It doesn’t look much
for the money. Still, if £2500 worth of goods
could be marketed at a profit of £1250 in the
present infancy of the plantations, there ought to
be something sweet coming in by-and-bye.
Castlemaine Brewery and Wood Bros., ol
Newcastle, had a lively half-yearly meeting, several
shareholders trenchantly criticising the manage-
ment. The outcome was the appointment of a com-
mittee of three to assist the directors in running the
co. “according to statutory requirements.” Some
directors would resign after a vote like that.
The first accounts of the Newcastle-Bel-
mont Collieries, Ltd. (Sydney), have been issued.
This is a Concern of 1,000,000 shares of Is. each,
of which about 425,000 are unissued. The mining
property, whose value has yet to be proved, stands
in the books at £35,485; but £11,977 of that is
owing, and, presumably, will have to be paid out of
profits. l Meantime the debt evidently carries in-
terest, so that there is really a pref. issue ahead of
the ordinaries. It is alleged that a net profit of
£66 was made in the past year; but the bulk of the
expenses have been debited to “Development.” The
actual revenue appears to have been £2174, and
the actual expenditure £5055. This leaves a deficit
of £2BBl. At the statutory meeting held in Sep-
tember last the report said: “The co., through its
directors, had arranged for the shipment of the
colliery’s output of coal up to 1000 tons per day.”
Up to that time the co.’s output had “represented
about 2500 tons.” As the sales to the end of March
totalled £2039, it looks as though mighty little was
• done in the past six months, and that the talk about
arranging for shipment up to 1000 tons a day was
just hot air.
The Ipswich Gas and Coke Co. (Q.) :
To Re- Re-
Feb., Profit. Dividend. serves, serves.
1910.. £1869 10 p.c. = £l2OO £669 £5537
1911 .. 2181 10 ~ ~ 1200 i.Bl 6518
It looks as though the reserves have to cover depre-
ciation ; and in that case the profits are not true
profits and the reserves are not true reserves. The
present financial position is satisfactory; there are
now £l5OO of debentures, and the only other lia-
bilities are a few trade debts ( £277). On the other
side there are liquid assets (mostly cash) totalling
£5234. The one doubt is as to the size of the ae-


By Appointing
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (Limited),
to act as
Trustees, Executors,
Administrators,
Attorneys under
Power, Agents, etc.
You are assured of Absolute Security,
Efficient and Economical Management,
etc.
Trust Funds to Lend
at from 4 per cent.
2, 4 and 6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
A. T. MACKENZIE)
Write or Call for Booklet. Manager.
GREENING’S
SCREENING.
Agate Steel, Phosphor,
Bronze, Brass.
Write for particulars to
FRASER & CHALMERS LTD.,
Equitable Building', Melbourne;
Macdonald Street, Kalgoorlie;
New Zealand: D. M. DAVIS, Agent, Hall of
Commerce, High Street, Auckland. [2
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
c mulating renewals and repairs; but the margin
between net revenue and dividend is so spacious that
there is no reason to anticipate trouble. *
The hi? law struggle oA T er the flotation
nrocesses for extracting zinc have begun in Sydney
Five parties are interested. I>( ' ttc j(' va * a m gt a ]g Ul by
chemist, who made a concentration of metals Dy
milverising the ores, mixing the wet pulp with oi
and acid, and thus floating off the metalhc par-
ticles. The Sulphide Corporation introduced another
oil-acid process, working it under license from the
Minerals Separation Co-an Anglo-Scotch concern
The Elmore Co. also owns an oil-acid process. In
England the Elmore Co. and the Minerals Separa-
tion Co. have been fighting through court after
court; the Separation Co. won in the end. in Ger-
many. however, the Elmore people scored a win.
The Sulphide Corporation has been paying royalty
to the Minerals Separation Co. The Elmore and
Potter people, of course, say it has been paying the
money to the wrong people. The fifth party inter-
ested, more or less, is a group including the
Amalgamated Zinc Co. and the Broken Hill Prop.
These two have processes of their own; but, pre-
sumably to avoid litigation, they made an arrange-
ment with the owners of the Potter patents.
The case, or series of cases, is a forest of techni-
calities. The processes look the same, if you only
look quickly; but they vary in details, and_ especi-
ally in the manner in which the oil and
acid are applied to the ore from which
it is intended to extract the zinc, silver
and lead. The Zinc Corporation has no process of
its own, but has hitherto used tie Elmore process;
now, however, it has installed a Minerals Separation
plant. If the Courts should decide that the process
belongs to, say, the Potter people, there may be
trouble ahead for the Zinc Corporation. As for the
Sulphide Corporation, it is understood to be held
protected in the event of the case going against the
Minerals Separation Co., to which it has been paying
the royalty. These disputed patents cover the whole
of the zinc separation business, which has now
reached a very big size at Broken Hill.
The one process which isn’t in the dog-fight is
the Murex. This is a magnetic, or partly-magnetic,
system. For years the, German metallurgists worked
with magnets; but the flotation system beat that
idea out. Besides, the dust rendered the process
horribly unhealthy. The Murex gets over the latter
difficulty by working wet. It makes a beautiful
separation of the metal from the gangue; unfor-
tunately it doesn’t separate the metals from one
another. It, too, uses oil, for the purpose of making
the particles more glutinous ; in the flotation process
the oil is used to assist the metallic particles to rise
to the surface as a scum. So the two don’t clash.
8., M. and Co. have taken up the Murex, and
will quite likely make a big success of it in con-
nection with simple, low-grade copper ores.
* * * *
The B. H. Junction North, which tried to
make itself believe that it had a decent mill, whereas
it really had a thing of shreds and patches, will no
doubt be the next to get to work with the Minerals
Separation process. The idea is to do a rough con-
centration to get out some of the silver and lead,
and then grind the “tailings” and feed them into
the pans.
Kyloe (N.S.W.) is deepening its main
shaft, and will by-and-bye open a lower level than
No. 5, which has been a sad disappointment. The
south drive, though showing some slight improve-
ment, is in ore assayin' l- only 4.2 p.c. for a width
of 4jft., and it is very doubtful whether that .will
pay.
» * # *
Westralian results for April :
Ton- Re- Pro- Value
riage. venue. fit. per ton.
Great Boulder .. 17,126 £48,082 £27,004 56/2
Kalgurh 10,805 23,035 10,510 42/8
Sons of Gwalia .. .. 13,650 23,388 9,286 34/3
Great Fingall .. .. 10,467 15,435 3,094 29/6
Golden Horseshoe .. 25,579 35,429 3,586 27/9
Boulder Perseverance.. 20,0 >3 23,913 4,212 23/10
Oroya-Brown Hill .. 22,000* 4,610 2,426 4/2
I van hoe.. .. .. 20,124 40,246 18,016 40/-
Oroya-Black Range .. 4,200 8,450 2,215 40/3
Souih Kalgurli .. .. 9,302 12,139 2,423 25/11
Golden Ridge .. .. 2,773 6,259 2,803 45 2
IdaH. ..' .. .. 1,344 4,405 1,310 65/6
Mararoa 2,610 4,492 1,807 34/5
Ingliston Consols .. 1,150 5,515 3,791 96/
Associated Northern .. 1,466 f 3,141 43/-
Blaok Range ~ .. 2,285 8,508 1,900 75/4
Lake View-Star' . .. 13,042 16,125. 972 24 9
Gwalia Souih .. .. 2,105 3,185 745 30 3
Hainault .. .. 4,440 6,026 36 27/2
Chaffers .. .. 3,390 4,543 121 26/6
Lake View Consols .. 8,339* 1,714 501 4/1
Boulder No. 1 .. .. 2,012 2,380 41 23/7
Loss.
Northern Mines .. 7,361 7,496 547 20/4
Gruy i Links .. .. 7,527 8,951 858 23/9
Morning Star .. .. 819 1,799 161 44/-
*old residues. (Including public crushings.
The operations at the Ivanhoe (W.A.)
for 1910 resulted in a net surplus of £236,785,
which, added to the unappropriated balance from
1909, made a total credit of £239,313 to be dealt
with. Dividends accounted for £220,000, and
directors’ fees for £875; the general reserve fund
was increased by £5OOO (to £100,000), and £5OOO
was chipped off the book value of investments, leav-
ing £6563 to be carried forward. Reference is
made in the report to the shortening of the main ore
shoot south of the main shaft at 1820 ft., 1970 ft. and
2120 ft. levels, and in this regard the consulting
engineers (8., M. and Co.) make the following cheer-
ful observations: “As development work is being
pushed on at the 2270 ft. and 2420 ft. levels, an en-
richment of the ore body may again be met with in
the south end of either of these levels. There is
no reason to suppose that the impoverishment of this
portion of the lode is other than temporary.” Since
those remarks were written three winzes sunk from
2120 ft. have shown distinct signs of a change for the
better in the character of the ore, while an im-
provement has also lately taken place in the south
drive at 2270 ft. AVhen the year closed the co. had
four years’ ore reserves of a dividend value of nearly
a million sterling, a. 20,000 worth of stores, and
cash, bullion and investments amounting to £ 276,022.
Boulder Perseverance’s first annual re-
port since restarting the partially-burnt mill states
that, during the five months the plant was in opera-
tion, ore treatment yielded £115,360, which, with
sundry small receipts, made a total revenue of
£115,961. Expenditure (including £14,411 outlay
on upkeep during cessation of work as a result of
the fire) absorbed £136,874, so that a deficit of
£20,913 on the year’s working is shown. The
feature of the year’s development was the opening
up of a new level at 2050 ft., where payable values
have already been exposed for a good length.
Actual ore reserves show an increase in quantity
from 380,772 tons to 482,834 tons, but the grade
has fallen from 6.548dwt. to 6.o9dwt. “Probable”
ore has expanded from 249,080 tons to 289,380
tons, and in grade from 4.943dwt. to 5.08dwt., and
the estimated gold contents of the combined re-
serves are given as £936,309, as compared with
£791,469 of 12 months ago. The co. still owes
about £50,000 to its bankers and sundry creditors,
and, although this indebtedness is being gradually
reduced, it will probably be well on towards the
middle of 1912 before the liability is completely
wiped off, and perhaps another year or so before a
reserve fund is built up and the payment of divi-
dends can be legitimately resumed.
* # * *
For the half-year ended March 31 Cum-
berland Co. (W.A.) recovered £4638 from 1192 tons
of quartz. Receipts also included £25 received
from the sale of sands, and £2Ol tributors’ royal-
ties. The co. had £6559 in hand on March 31.
Greenfinch Co.’s Boodallin property is
labelled dangerous in the West. Before State Min-
ing Engineer Montgomery’s inspection, big bodies
of 2oz. to soz. ore were alleged to be exposed on the
surface, while the quartz showing in the bottom bf
the prospecting shaft was reckoned to be worth from
soz. to 6oz. Montgomery failed to get anything like
those assays: in one costeen which was said to ex-
pose 17ft. of 2oz. to soz. ore, he got only 18gr. The
dump gave the best values; but, then, dumps usually
do assay well in cases of this sort. Since the
publication of Montgomery’s report, someone else
has certified to the presence of 6ft. of 3£oz. ore
in the crosscut at 50ft., with sAoz. ore showing in
the face; but in view of the chameleon way in
which the reef appears to change in value, the wise
man will require good proof of the big values.
* * * *
News conies from the West that the Bull-
rush Co. has taken an option over the Great Un-
known leases at Mount Jackson, and by this time it
should have about made up its mind whether it is
going to do business or not. The Unknown appears
to belong to the specimen variety of show.
Golden Ridge (W.A.) is drilling from
400 ft. to locate the reef at 700 ft., and, incidentally,
satisfy itself as to the best site for a new main
shaft. The working of the mine from this new
shaft will bring down the underground costs con-
siderably, as the faces of ore now being operated
on are a long distance from the present haulage way.
Phillips River, Ravensthorpe (W.A.), has
shut down, and all hands have been put off until
rain comes. Meantime everybody who is able to
get away is clearing out, and those left behind are
mostly business people, who fill in their time gazing
down the deserted thoroughfare and lamenting the
exodus and the non-payment of store accounts.
* * * *
Morning Star Co. (W.A.) reckons it lias
got on to something good at 100 ft. level. So far 38ft.
of ore is exposed in the crosscut, 16ft. of which as-
says from 575. 6d. to 70s. per ton. The co. has
taken an option over the adjoining Cushie Doo
leases; the purchase price is fixed at £2500.
Lately announced that New Moon, Ben-
digo, one of the most consistent div. payers on the
field, intended to put off half its staff of 100 men
because of the poverty of the dirt. A little work
will be continued on the Suffolk reef, and the cross-
cut is to go out from the bottom of the main shaft
when sinking is finished there. The co. was regularly
on divs. for a longer period than almost any other
Bendigo Claim has been, and its departure into the
call-paying realm hits a lot of people who don’t want
to try their luck at unprofitable deep-mining just
now.
* » * *
The Francis Ormond, of Castlemaine
(Vic.), was one of the troubles of old Geo. Lansell’s
life. It used to give just enough good quartz, now and
again, to whet that old pioneer’s appetite. Then a
long season of calls would take the sharp edge off
his enthusiasm, until he settled down to the con-
viction that the Francis Ormond was a “stringer” of
the worst description. Now the old story is re-
peated. The mine has been landed in the lap of
tributors, who, having broken into neglected ground,
have got a nice block of dirt. North of Francis
Ormond is Dyason’s old claim, which has had about
as dreary a record as the Francis Ormond. Still
farther along lie the Forest Creek Gold Mines, be-
longing to a British crowd, represented by E. J.
Hartley. The line has eaten up boxes of sovereigns,
till it isn’t safe to mention it at the Beehive, or even
in Castlemaine itself. John Brandon’s Bendigonia
is still boring on the White Horse channel of
country thereabouts. At 193 ft., 475 ft. and 712 ft.
colors of, gold were got in the core. This has been
enough on which to form a co. with a capital of
£4OOO (cash) to sink a shaft. The Bulletin sub-
scribes its sympathy and best wishes.
* * * *
New Dempsey, Gaffneys (Vic.), takes a
turn for the better. The old crowd sticks to it as
only mountaineers will to a claim with a good re-
cord. Their handicap is a plug of debt, which they
say would disappear like the mists oyer Gaffney’s
Creek, if an old-time patch or two could be got to
the mill. The present sweetening comes from the
reef which is being underhand stoped at No. 5 level,
where, until very lately, results have been disap-
pointing. While the co. hopes for good stone near
the new shaft, the directors aren’t idling along the
dyke. Everywhere in the Woods Point district the
big pots have been made out of the quartz in the
dyke or junctioning it. The Rose of Denmark is the
latest exemplar, and AI has had cheerful indications.
New Dempsey should always spare a few pence to
prospect on the lines laid down by Nolan, sen.
Gippsland copper and platinum mine, near
Walhalla (Vic.), is to be turned over to a Melbourne
co. The first return (nine days’ work) was 50 tons
of matte, containing tons copper, 2870 z. silver,
30oz. gold and 320 z. platinum. Somehow Tasmania
got word that the platinum return was 3200 z., and a
jig w-as started; but Melbourne threw on a wet
blanket, ami the market slumped rather heavily to
12s. 9d. Altogether 700 tons copper ore and 15 tons
quartz were treated, so the extraction was under 3
p.c. copper and ldwt. gold. That might do if there
were no doubts about the reserves. AV. 11. Cundy,
who was commissioned to report, considers that
deeper development is required, and has marked out
a shaft. Some rich patches were obtained 50 odd
years ago, but the old hands didn’t, as a rule, leave
much cream behind them; hence the need to go
deeper.
Mt. Lyell shirks the publication of plans.
So the world cannot tell whether the bunch of rich
bornite it is gouging out at 1100 ft. is alongside the
Blocks boundary or a big bit off it. The Bulletix
first let out the secret of a change in underlay back
from the Blo'cks, and the steadiness of the market
since has confirmed the statement. Sticht’s last
half-yearly “pitch” shows that the North Lyell’s de-
velopment nearly kept pace with production in the
six months. Want of workers is one plaint. Then
why not pay the same decent screw as at the Bar-
rier? The answer is that 10 p.c. on wages means
10 p.c. off profits, which are getting tearfully near
Is. a half-year. Gutting out developments at 850 ft.,
where more ore has been proved by further contour
work, the last six months clear up some of the clouds
over the 1100 ft. level. No. 41 stope is a bonanza, and is
believed to be identical in turn with No. 34 stope
at the 1000 ft., which in turn goes up to No. 22
stope at 850 ft., which last was also “bonzer.” Then
No. 36 stope goes first to No. 31 stope in the 1000 ft.
level, and into No. 20 in the 850 ft., while No. 37
stope in turn also runs up to 850 ft. The biggest
stope in the mine is No. 20, at the last-named level,
but No. 22 has still to be delimited. Stoping for the
six months was busiest at the 850 ft., 1000 ft., and
1100 ft. levels. Developments generally tend to con-
firm the idea that the shoots of ore have contracted
in the 150 ft. which lies between 850 ft. and 1100 ft.
But the richness of the bornite makes some of the ore
“show-dirt,” and maintains the name of the North
Lyell as one of the treasure-houses of the copper
mining world.
Mount Lyell Board has voted £l5OO
to Secretary Alfred Mellor’s widow. Everyone ap-
plauds, for the dead man was as straight as a rush,
an enthusiastic worker, and possessed of the imagin-
ation that helps to make an ideal secretary. Mellor
and Sticht, or Sticht and were made to run
in double harness; and Bowes Kelly and Knox, by
fastening them to their big job, did a fine thing for
the co. The combination was the best of its kind
south of the line.
Mt. Bischoff Extended, next door to the
big Tasmanian mine, puts up this record: March,
1910, 6132 tons crushed for 98 tons tin oxide;
September, 1910, 6629 tons for 84% tons; March,
1911, 6951 tons for 66% tons. These returns in-
dicate falling values, but there are bright spots.
The present high price of tin is one. If the mine,
after its long training, cannot be got to the divvy
post with tin at record figures, then it is time to
give it up. In explanation of last half-year’s lower
return, it is said that the new furnace didn’t work
smoothlv. The best find of late has been a
new surface lode; it is only 22 inches wide, though,
and carries pyrites and antimony, and a mixture
like that wants a big furnace. Then there is what is
termed “the lode channel” at the surface, where the
old miner is presumed to have left pay-dirt. Maybe ;
but the odds generally are that he cleaned up care-
fully as he went, so it won’t do to count much on
that.
# * * *
There is a fair prospect of Marshall’s
Queen getting on the Charters Towers dividend list.
Marshall’s is working a footwall reef on the
Brilliant formation, and No. 6 and No. 7 levels are
carrying a strong reef of fair quality; but the pre-
sent revival is mainly due to good developments on
what is thought to be the old Queen Gross reef, near
the Queen Central boundary.
* » * *
Hampden-Cloncurry (Q.) is so far only
running its furnace on experimental lines; and no
doubt the smelting practice will improve. The first
run of matte was not up to converter grade, and the
expenses in overcoming smelting difficulties threaten
to be heavy.
** l * *
No. 2 S. Great Eastern, Gympie, crushed
815 tons for 4490 z. gold, which is much below the
loz. this old mine was getting quite accustomed to
win from the Power reef. The stopes are not look-
ing so well as they did, particularly those going
north at the 1100 ft. level. Shaft sinking is in pro-
gress, and the crosscut at 1750 ft. is being pushed
along in the hope of striking a big make of quartz
when the Inglewood formation is reached. The latter
is low-grade, but bulky: the Scottish Gympie re-
cently put through 6800 tons of it for £6150.
# * * *
No. 3 North Columbia, Gympie, crushed
844 tons for 7120 z., following 614 tons for 5370 z.
These returns are so encouraging that the directors
are seriously thinking of buying a battery. The
stopes show 3ft. of crushing stuff in places, _ but
values depend to some extent on patches of specimen
stone. The conditions are rather uncertain; but
having struck the right kind of country rock, it is
quite likely that No. 3 will pay a few dividends.
Vulcan (N.Q.) is in for one of its cheer-
ful periods; though the bottom is still poor, enough
8 p.c. stuff is showing to guarantee some sweet re-
turns for a few months.
At a meeting of the Blair Athol Co., held
at Rockhampton (Q.) the other day, the directors
who recently gave an option to purchase for £65,000
cash and £lOO,OOO in paid shares, were empowered
to varv the terms by accepting £85,000 cash, with-
out any shares.
* * * *
Annan River tin mine, near Cooktown
(Q.), recently sluiced 5500 cubic yards for 2 tons
6cwt. black tin, which means a shade over lib. to
the yard; so Annan will have to cut costs fine to
make profits. Certainly, some conditions are favor-
able; the face of stuff, for instance, is 40ft. high.
* * * *
From Maoriland: Waihi pays no bonus
for the past year; shareholders will have to be con-
tent with the 16s. dividend, and think themselves
lucky to get it. The gross profit was £559,000, as
against previous year’s £606,000. Divs. (with in-
come taxes) absorb £441,000, capital expenditure
£18,500, depreciation £37,000, and £30.000 has
been provided for pushing on the Horahora hydro-
electric scheme. There is still £57,700 to be carried
into the 1911 accounts. The new electric pumping
plant, to assist the existing plant in unwatering the
1150 ft. level, has just been installed. Values lately
developed in the low levels keep poor. Waihi Grand
Junction gives its shareholders the pleasant surprise
of a shilling dividend. This is the first pay-out in
13 years, and will absorb £20,000. Also, a balance
of £7155 is carried forward, after allowing £14,626
for machinery depreciation and £16,845 for mine
development redemption. “Long Drive” Walker got
the mine off in London in 1897, but for a while
work was badly carried on through the foolishness
of the London Board. Of late years a better policy
has been followed, and the mine has been steadily
increasing its returns. Costs, outside development,
have been brought down in a year from 225. lOd. to
15s. 3d. pei a. Milling and mining have both been
cheapened an . extraction improved. Grace, the
superintendeni puts the actual millable reserves at
132,000 tons, vith 30,000 tons more partially blocked
out.
* * * *
Kulamadau, Woodlark Island, reckons it
made a profit of £l2OO for six weeks. The gross
value of the return was £3352 from 1590 tons; so,
apparently, the co. extracted an average of £2
2s. 2d., and made a profit of, approximately, 15s.
per ton. Total costs run to £1 17s. per ton. The
stopes in three levels show from 4ft. to 10ft. of
crushing material; but either the Papuan native
labor is poor or a good deal of picking has to be
done, otherwise costs would be lower. The new
shaft was sunk 40ft., and has still more than 200 ft.
to go to reach a level corresponding with No. 5.
That will be a lift below the deepest level now
being worked. The shaft they are now sinking was
originally started by the old Woodlark Island Prop.,
but heavy water was met with and funds didn’t last.
The present co. will undoubtedly meet with a heavy
flow below No. 4 level, so there’s some fighting
ahead.
Every engineer in charge of factories and mills
should give close attention to the power wasted in
transmission of power. The Hyatt Flexible Holler
Bearings save 20 per cent, power and 75 per cent,
of oil, so one of the first duties is naturally for
engineers to direct their special attention to these
bearings and to car boxes for trucks. Hyatts are
in continuous use in Cement Works, Ore Dressing
Mills, Factories,’ etc., in Australia. Bushings of
flexible rollers may be applied to loose pulleys or
truck wheels, etc. Should engineers require further
details, they can apply to the Australian Agents,
W. & J. Lempriere, Melbourne; or E. W. Hurst-
house and Co., of Wellington, the agents in New
Zealand.*
“FERRODOR” Paint.—Specially manufactured for
preserving galvanised iron and steel. Unaffected by
sea air, sulphur fumes, cyanogen gases. Used on
Princes and Victoria Bridges, P. and O. and N.D.L.
steamers, etc. Covers 1000 sq. yds. per cwt. WM.
ADAMS & CO., LTD., 175 Clarence Street, Sydney.*
Steam Users are invited to send for illustrated
catalogue of Engineering Specialities manufactured
by Bell’s United Asbestos Co., Ltd. Every descrip-
tion of asbestos goods, patent “Belfry” steam valves
and asbestos packed cocks and water gauges are
stocked at the depots of Bell's Asbestos Austra-
lian Agency, Ltd., 315 Kent Street, Sydney, and
Beach Street, Fremantle; also at Victorian Agency,
W. H. Lamond & Co., 328 Flinders Street, Mel-
bourne.*
The Bigelow Patent Rock Breaker commends
itself to mine managers who welcome an effective
machine which is cheaper to maintain and repair
than Gyratory and other crushers. This machine is
of the well-known Blake type, but has some ad-
ditional improvements which have justified in prac-
tice all the claims advanced by the patentee. The
work of crushing is done on the down-stroke of the
pitman instead of the up-stroke; there is no strain
on the pitman cap; two large side rods resist the
thrust of the toggles, and enable the jaws to be
regulated within a large range; the back toggle is
so made as to resist all legitimate strains of crush-
ing, but will shear under exceptional conditions and
save the machine. The shaft and eccentric bearings
are self-lubricating; the jaws are convex and con-
cave, and with the cheek plates are made of steel
and are reversible. The Austral Otis Engineering-
Company, of South Melbourne, have installed a great
number of these machines, and hold the sole manu-
facturing rights for the Commonwealth.* [3
FOR SALE Cheap, Second-Hand, 15 Break H.P.
Tangye Gas Engine, in good order. Apply Manager,
Bulletin Office, 214 George Street, Sydney.*
Dick’s Patent Balata Belting, invented and made
by R. and J. Dick, Glasgow, is the only original and
most reliable Balata Belting. To ensure getting
real article, branded with makers’ name, obtain from
Sole Importers, James Hardie and Co., West Circular
Quay, Sydney, who carry large stocks, guaranteeing
quality.* [2
Extract from the Financial News, London
(29/7/1910): “The bonus is one of the best yet de-'
dared, and, in the opinion of the actuary, . ‘the
prospects of distributing satisfactory bonuses in the
future are better now than they ever were before.’
The Colonial Mutual has certainly earned its repu-
tation for financial strength and fair treatment of
policy-holders. ” *
WOOD PIPE has been found to be not only
cheaper, but more efficient and durable than iron or
steel. The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Bal-
main, Sydney, will send catalogue on application.*
Mine Managers and Engineers. —Send vour orders
for miners’ drill steel, octagon, hexagon and cruci-
form, solid or hollow; manganese and chrome steel
castings and forgings; all tool steels and engineers’
tools, pneumatic tools, machine tools, saw blades
and frames, etc., to Bohler Bros. & Co., Ltd., I
Angel Place, Sydney, and at Melbourne.*
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting ?
If so, write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address, 163 King
Street, Sydney, and 9 Queen Street, Melbourne.* [1
An economical proposition in belt conveying of
great interest to mining and mill managers, en-
gineers, etc. “Condor” Brand Registered Black Sur-
face Hardened Conveyor Belting—specially adapted
for the Australian climate —for conveying ore, sand,
metal, wheat, coal, etc. Less than half cost of
rubber belting, giving excellent results, Kalgoorlie,
Broken Hill, and Wallaroo. Write for price lists
and particulars to Sole Manufacturers, Hopkins Bros.
& Odium Prop., Ltd., Leicester Street, Carlton, Mel-
bourne.*
* * * *
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co. Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modern scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne.*
F. DANVERS POWER, mining engineer, is pre-
pared to purchase approved MINING properties. Ad-
dress: National Mutual Chambers, Pitt and Bond
Streets, Sydney.*
Nobel's Explosives are the best and most re-
liable. We are agents for the original makers,
Hamburg. Large stocks on hand. Contracts at low
rates. WM. ADAMS & CO., LTD., 175 Clarence
Street, Sydney.*
Mine managers when requiring air compressors,
either belt, steam, or electrically driven, should not
fail to inspect the Reavell Air Compressor, when they
will be impressed by its simplicity, compactness and
portability. Owing to the working parts being en-
tirely enclosed it can be placed to work on any part
of the mine, either on the surface or underground.
The number of repeat orders which Messrs. Reavell
have received from the mining community proves
how greatly their compressor is appreciated. The
representatives for Australia are Messrs. Babcock
and Wilcox, Haymarket, Sydney.* [2
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign Patents obtained.
Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Melbourne, and
Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write us for In-
ventors’ Guide.*
Assayers, Mine Managers, and Prospectors
write to H. B. Silberberg and Co., 443 Bourlce
Street, Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining
requisites and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc
pulverisers to 200 mesh; hand sample grinders to
120 mesh; Ainsworth’s assay balances sensitive to
1/13000 grain; prospector’s balances to 1/1000
grain ; weight; pocket transits ; gasoline combination
furnaces ; Morgan’s crucibles; chemicals; etc.*


m
Esteb
1818
World
h
Renowned.
Trade Mark.
STUHR’S
Finest Table Delicacies
Genuine Caviare.
Anchovies in Brine.
Peeled Shrimps.
Shrimps Extract.
Sold by all High-class Provision Dealers.
C. F. STUHR & CO., Hamburg.
English Export Agent: W. Lovegrove. London,E.C,
R°B"R
7
• r
4
a
Th
You’ve no idea what fun it is
being in a te.-room wh t,
between the johnnies at lunch,
and the girls in he afternoon,
and the old cats scandalisirg
each other all day long, one’s
kept pretty well amused —of
course, running backwards and
forwards with cups o’ tea and
things all day long is very tiling,
but as 1 said before the time passes
quickly enough when there are
lots of people about.
It’s a money-making business
too, is a tea-room, if you’ve got
the trade —and the best way to
get a trade and keep it is to give
people good tea—they’ll come a
mile for a good cup o’ tea.
If ever 1 start for myself I’ll
give ’em tea they’ll talk about
—l’ll give ’em “Special ” Grade
R o b u r, the very best tea money
can buy—they’ll come to my
place if giving them good tea
wilJ bring them.
The Waitress.
QUALITY—BUCHANAN WHISKY
“BLACK & WHITE.”
A
WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, May 29, 1911.
My Deak Arini,-
Empire Day gave Acting-Premier Holman
and Minister for Education Beeby strenuous
exercise chasing the young child to its un-
defended scholastic lair. Mr. Henley’s blood
boiled at a dinner party, and Mr. Bruce
Smith champed his patriotic bit in the
Royal Exchange. The chairman at the lat-
ter gathering was Mr. A. F. Robinson, who
had presumably been chosen for variegated
reasons. He is president of the Exchange.
He is a mild-looking old gentleman who
seems incapable of hurting a foreign mos-
quito—except in self-defence. And his re-
marks are not likely to set Europe in a
blaze, for they didn’t travel farther than
the platform water-bottle. Arundel Orchard
conducted his Liedertafel in a pen at one
side of the Exchange. This was the star
item, though Bruce Smith was head-lined as
chief performer.
The Admirable King-Hall lacks the charm
of platform manner that made Sir Richard
Poore so popular in public places. The
King-Hall naval address at the Exchange
flag-flap was like chilled beef after the Bruce
Smith stampede through blood and glory.
It was a frozen review of facts, clear cut,
impartial, and not antagonistic to Austra-
lian national sentiment. His naval Ex., how-
ever, has the same habit that often tripped
up dear old Governor Rawson. He suddenly
stumbles for a word—one word on earth.
No understudy, no substitute, nothing else
will he have. And while he searches for it
the Empire and other hard-working institu-
tions must take two bars rest. The Admi-
rable starts briskly on his missing-word com-
petition. He finds his lost property. Then,
until the next crisis, all’s well with the
world.
The Admirable King-Hall’s first garden
party was lucky in its weather. Soft as
the touch of a feather, a balmy breath of
autumn crept over the garden wall. Flowers
are wearing shabby garb just now,
but a few brilliant scarlet blooms nodded
over green velvet lawns. From Admiralty
House verandah, Sydney, on a May after-
noon, makes a Turneresque color-patch,
smoke grey against a western sky of pearl
and gold. Artist John Longstaff fell in
love with it all over again, and lapsed into
a mental fit of oil paints when he ought to
have been lionised on the lawn. He suffered
this later, and roared as gently as a cooing
dove, while Society and others poured melted
butter over him.
Mrs. King-Hall, tall and slender, swal-
lowed Sydney Society in a large dose, with
mild resignation. The present Admiralty
House lady is safely fenced in by an amiable
non-committal manner. She will never let
down the slip-rails of candid comment with
(he frequent and frank indiscretion of her
lovable predecessor. Lady Poore stirred
dull committees with epigrams, and shivered
the timbers of naval etiquette with a raking
cross-fire of spicy anecdotes. She was the
vital spark that galvanised Flag-Lieutenants
into brisk social attentions. We’re not
going to meet her like again, in the usually
heavy-weight circle that keeps Britannia
polishing up her Pacific Ocean brass work.
The wide hat with the long ostrich fea-
ther, the most alluring form of millinery
that women, young, old or uncertain, can
put upon their headpieces, is creeping back
into its old-time place. At the Admirable’s
party, Mrs. Ralph Verney, in one of the
cx-eamy-white cloth gowns of the moment,
wore a wide Romney hat with a great droop-
ing feather that ought to have had its pic-
ture taken on the spot. Miss Mary Fairfax
was handsomely plumed. Mayoress Allen
Taylor, in black velvet robes of state, was
another of the richly-feathered tribe. Mrs.
Harry Levy, one of Sydney’s habitually
best-dressed women, garbed in mogul drapery,
wore a large, decorative, feathered hat, first
cousin to a genuine Gainsborough. Miss
Nora Anderson, a slim young thing of
charm, top-dressed her dark gown with a
sash of sealing-wax red, and let its long
ends dangle down in front. This vivid
touch of Oriental color, with a green hedge
behind it, and a spruce, gold-mounted young
man beside it, was a bright interlude' in a
drab official group. Miss Nesta Griffiths,
another attractive young person, showed a
peach-bloom complexion to the inquisitive
eye of day.
The new season’s millinery, turned sharply
back off the face, is wickedly trying to any-
thing over 30. It’s the Revelation of
Time’s cruel little feet.
Mrs. (Ethel Turner) Curlewis, in blue
velvet, with eyes en suite —the correct thing
in color, accoi’ding to a London writer who
fell into columns of cold print over the Lin-
lithgow-Milner wedding—wore a wide feath-
ered hat on her fluff of fair hair. She
says she never enjoyed spilling ink as
much as she does over her recent blue-water
trip, now steaming through the Daily Tele-
graph as “Ports and Happy Havens.”
She’s getting a return-ticket’s worth of joy
in the revived memories of shopping in
Colombo silk bazaars.
Saturday afternoon’s rain didn’t damp
the ardor of enthusiasts who trekked for the
Symphony Orchestral concert in the Town
Hall. Plain persons squelched in goloshes
through greasy mud, and the motors of the
Merely Rich filled the Q. V. Markets with
whiffs of petrol-perfume. Inside the hall
Joseph Bradley took his place as conductor
in a deal annexe that looked like a white-
pine butter-box. He got brilliant orches-
tral effects out of his merry men by sawing
the air with his arms —he uses no baton.
The white kid gloves that clothe the hands
of Sousa wouldn’t last for five minutes of
the strenuous Bradley gymnastics. He fights
space with his closed fist, he grapples it
with crooked fingers, he beats it with open
palms. There’s no referee to watch the
rounds, and those outside the ring can only
picture the first violins giving their conduc-
tor a rub down when it is all over, while the
second fiddles play cold water over his musi-
cal brow.
The Sydney Symphony Orchestra gives
the public good value for its cash. Satur-
day’s programme cost threepence. It was
worth it, for it supplied ample notes of ex-
planation and purple patches of color in
picked bars of music from the principal
themes. The overtui-e to “Oberon” was a
charming performance, beginning with an
introduction as delicately soft as the flutter
of butterfly wings. The organ symphony
dedicated by Saint-Saens to the memory of
Franz Liszt was the strong meat of the
menu. Mr. Hellemann crept up to his
perch at the big instrument with the stealthy
step of a burglar breaking into a church.
One sneeze, from the crowded eastern gallery,
was the only accident.
The Glaciarium ice-patch opened its sea-
son on the day that Admiralty House held
its garden party. Confirmed skaters
dribbled quietly away from the official jun-
keting, and hurriedly motored off to the
first-day freeze. _ Miss Charlton cuts new
ice in a skimming, swallow-like way that
incites the unwary beginner—who usually
skates on his head —to wonder why he, too,
wasn’t born with wings on his feet. The
tight skirt—black velvet, with a knitted
golf coat, is this year’s obsession —is going
to get itself disliked. The really capable
skater wears her garments wide. The "fair-
to-scrambling minx gets into a yard and a
half of velvet, and measures her Noah’s
Ark figure on the ice. Incapable of lifting
a toe to save herself, she obstructs the traffic
and has to be raised to her perpendicular by
two or more able-bodied friends. She falls
down flat at frequent intervals, like a joint-
less wooden doll. Male chivalry gets a
sprain in its muscle, and a twist in its
patience, and goes on skating.
Invitations for the
Coronation ball, to be
given by Mayor Allen
Taylor, in Sydney
Town Hall, don’t stray
round the city without
a chain. A new and
ingenious device - I
suspect Mrs. Taylor or
W. G. Layton, or
both —is gummed on
to the placard, to ex-
tract replies from the
polite procrastinator.
Any person who for-
gets, or is too lazy, to
say “Yea” or “Nay”—
the “Yeas” have it—
will have to put up
with the cold conse-
quences ; he won’t get
a patent-pump toe in-
side the door. After joyfully accepting the
Mayoral Coronation caper, the person indi-
cated in the first board of preliminary ad-
vice will get a card of entree. This is the
only certificate of merit the recording-angel
in official livery will consider worthy to
grease the hinges of the big front door.
Sydney is getting ready to spread its hos-
pitable wings over the Sheffield Choir, which
will reach Brisbane on June 10. Club secs,
have already indited pyramids of hon. mem-
bers’ cards. They’re not quite so numerous
as the sands of the sea, but are more in evi-
dence. Piled up in bundles lashed with whip
cord, they look like half-grown bales of wool.
Any person under the baton of Dr. Coward
who wants five minutes to himself will have
to hide his voice in a drain or something
such.
One member of the Harriss team was a
census clerk, whose top notes failed to melt
the icy rigor of heartless Authority. He
had to stay in his native town and ask the
indignant woman how old she really is. while
the choir gleefully steamed away to Canada.
Despair made him put up a record fight
against long odds. He won, tumbled into
various means of transit, and arrived in
Vancouver just in time to put a stitch in
his seven-league boots. With his second-
last breath he gasped the name of Charles
Harriss, and shed notes of joyful greeting
on the necks of Sheffield’s male harmonic
chords.
H. N. Southwell is suffering from an
acute attack of choiritis. He lives, breathes
and occasionally (when he isn’t catching in-
ter-State trains) sleeps “Sheffield.” The
microbe also begins to infect some ordinarily
germ-proof bushmen. One badly-bitten en-
thusiast writes that rather will he retrench
on pumpkin and ’possum for the rest of his
days than miss a trip to hear the Harrisses.
A souvenir programme of 64 pages is worry-
ing its pictorial way into a large edition. A
thousand persons, seizing Southwell by the
forelock, applied for seats for the first con-
cert a week before the plan opened at Pal-
ing’s. (A million musical microbes won’t
tear the word “Sheffield” out of my lacer-
ated nib again for at least one week.)
The long-threatened has come within ear-
shot. It moves heavily, with bated breath,
for it bears upon its back Art, Literature
and Music. Mrs. Ebenezer Vickery has
given it her blessing. If it lives long
enough, it will grow into a club for the men-
tal uplifting of expensively-dressed young
women in this city. Mrs. King-Hall is al-
leged to have been secured as a vice-presi-
dent. The Society girl will open her pretty
mouth, and into it ’Varsity dons will work
overtime to drop sugar-coated pills of soliQ
information. For months this tragic at-
tempt to hurl heavy chunks of knowledge at
butterfly brains has been solemnly discussed
over the best Orange Pekoe.
The scent of orris-root sachets, and dead
Greeks, and the groans of Dante’s Inferno
will mingle with the squeak of high-heeled
shoes. Prof. MacCallum dealing out British
classics, while Society glues one eye on its
wrist-watch; Miss Louisa Macdonald in-
dustriously digging in 8.G.; Prof. David
hand-feeding slim silhouettes, in velvet gowns,
with hard lumps of geological strata; Prof.
Fawsitt (perhaps) towering over a gather-
ing of thinly-disguised yawns, with a learn-
ed dissertation on chemistry—this, Arini, is
the skeleton form of the new club. Brains
in batter will be elegantly served in pud-
ding-basin toques.
The leakage of a recent proposition made
to Lady Dudley on monogram paper was a
blunder with a satisfactory climax. The fare-
well memorial committee asked her Ex.
whether she would have her portrait paint-
ed by Longstaff, or add a loving cup to the
Dudley plate locker. This somehow got in-
to print before an answer came from Gov-
ernment House. Sitting for a portrait is
not robbed of its terrors of physical fatigue
because one of the world’s leading portrait
painters wields the brush. Lady Dudley’s
health has been uncertain during the whole
of her stay in this sunlit patch ; yet if she
had felt physically unable to sit or stand for
the big picture, the refusal would have
flashed overseas, and looked uncommonly
like a polite smack in Artist Longstaff’s
face. Being a woman first, and a semi-
invalid second, her Ex. decided on the por-
trait. Next time a query of this kind is
put to some person in the public eye, the an-
swer ought to be planked down before every
drawing-room tea party in Sydney has had a
chance to cackle Over the nossible result.
The engagement of Oliver Osborne, one of
the Ben Osborne family, of Hopewood, Bow-
ral, to Miss Valerie Willis, has been in the
MR. AND MRS. H. B. IRVING—THE COMING STARS.
air for some weeks. Now it is in the press. A
quiverful of sturdy sons and daughters, with
a stake in the wool trade, have come from
the Hopewood homestead. Oliver, who is
acquiring a nice girl, had the usual jaunt
abroad which is alleged to put a polish on
the Australian youth in the matter of silk
hats, fancy ties, and chippy remarks. Since
then he has been chiefly wool-gathering.
The Hon. Caroline Grosvenor signed her-
self “Chairman of the Committee of Colonial
Intelligence for Educated Women” (London
W.), at the foot of a letter that appeared
in Sydney papers a few weeks ago. It
doesn’t hurt us very much. A friend, now
in London, writes re this alleged outbreak of
“Colonial” Intelligence in London West. She
clambered up the innumerable stairs of a
tall, narrow-chested house with fashionable
antecedents. Colonial Intelligence was dis-
guised in the persons of well-meaning,
smartly-dressed women who had “taken up”
the philanthropic role of providing Austra-
lia, of which they knew' nothing, with British
lady-helps who knew less. A Society edition
of Mrs. Jellyby was up to her finger-nails
in an inky track of correspondence. She
paused occasionally, to ask what language
was generally spoken in Australia, and how
poor, dear little children contrived to get a
smatter of .education “out there.” She was
quite amazed to hear that schools and gover-
nesses were common complaints. The colos-
sal ignorance of this amateur Intelligence de-
partment was the most imnressive thing the
Sydney girl had met in London West.
The smart young man-about-town is as-
siduously putting his fingers into vivid
canary-colored gloves. He carries both
hands under cover —a Georgian departure
from the Edwardian one-glove fashion.
A friend who has suffered much from the
efforts of young persons to career up and
down the keyboards of broken-spirited pianos
recently travelled with the Ernest Wunder-
lichs, on the Scharnhorst, to an inter-State
port. He says, “Mr. Wunderlich got music
out of a ship’s piano. He is an accom-
plished musician, and made me break the
pledge never to sit in the vicinity of ama-
teur effort if I could find a fire escape.” The
Wunderlichs have acquired the captain’s
cabin for the voyage, and consequently tra-
vel in considerable comfort. Mrs. Ernest
plays duets with her husband. They’ve been
practising together for about 28 years, and
don’t need an automatic machine to click
the time-beat.
The Daily Mirror gives large headlines
to Ola Humphrey and her Egyptian Prince,
who wasn’t sounding the loud timbrel when
the camera man snapped him at the
Strand Registry office. This photo shows
Ola Jane in walking dress, with a narrow
skirt stretched to its extreme circumfer-
ence, sprinting across the pavement. The
whereabouts of the bridegroom is like a
guessing competition. Presumably he's
buried in shadow at one side. To the right
of Ola Jane is the suggestion of a male
figure with a straw hat as the most notice-
able article of his attire. A more bride-
groomy-looking person, in the Registry office
doorway, is also dissolved in shadow. Next
to him, coming out, is a rather shabby,
down-at-the-heel male, with large buttons on
his waistcoat. Probably he’s the witness,
or the casual spectator, or a tax collector for
the Cairo water rates. Anyhow, a picture
of this kind ought to have an index.
Yours, with a broad nib,
VANDORLAN.
“O” : The no-confidence debate in N.S.W.
Assembly drifted round to the difference be-
tween Labor Caucus and Liberal Caucus.
Labor pledge and Liberal pledge. The
Caucus may be new, but disciplinary
methods are' old. There is to-day a man
occupying the highest place in the N.S.W,
Legislative Council who, happening to di-
verge from the Liberal party’s views, was
pursued by the chief of the party—Henry
Parkes —with a vitriolic hatred amounting
to malignity. Political death to “apos-
tates” was the Liberal motto, and
Parkes, emblazoning the motto on his shield,
pursued Francis Suttor to Bathurst in 1889.
and succeeded in slamming the door of Par-
liament in his face.


it
T7l
"A ;
iMAA ~
•'A :
7i/v»*rtfV
Eg
I Chi ;: ’• rM
3 wi
isi:!]!'iin#l ! pi«|iiw
i?^;!::!l;iiMtfeliMl
.1? !;f !r-*>
ViSk
0 ‘
Us
Mi
aa
f-a-jf/V-JP 1 fP
mm
m
mi
V:f\
Mi
\>s
Hffi
jfUgP
/s^fs 59 "
■ »!'
ss&®£
|so|
««Wes«Kfe 'V • V vl rn 5 ••;■:.'?
%s>•*/ wmvlMm I }, a »s -
%f !?■ v. Mitf £ fgfe?S *;: bi-fy . • .
i 7’?i MH.vfiiff': fo: : t'i -4*
1 ; ? &sfc ■} \wm n (• tft ■ &,•
§ '~|»I II ll^Pf' »-& ;|/'
H,!
;;n
iiiii
'ii-fetP
“»?s«sryjyy
HiK
l|!!|®
li;
111
ii
; v £ <v
g
(}|
■A.fX
m
■ '< 5
i : ’.ill
I mm
< S’V i:“i fis
1
?:•>!
cW
:j{|| , f
?. jf. f
’ Hi
V :U
j^l^l
5 A'
v.
H ii
H
.m
.'./A
srfs
w*-i\ «
* \ K
ill
s^v
#■ f
S!
&
!.Sy'
, - * h
mu
'&z
mb.
MM
u
mmW^^
v
Mr,
ml
im
Wi,
U.y f ,
*s«
fcjw..
Sggsfi
p.w
m
Ssssfi
■ ■
i»4a
>,
m
¥3
■
vs\
. a ■;■'
»g| !
W,,
m
m
me- 1
wws*
as
m
■■■
M}mF4
m
■::
m
iV;j
"> / V
■xwjyrj
;V?V:V e
:§j}y '; .
•^C'if- ; >|
iS#ii
S'-r
fy’y.
SM&p,
v. &
■<%£&** y
M
mm
T" t&r/!~-f\
Utf&p
•'■ ’Ww s
;-^«v. v -:..'’. / .••• - -~>>v
w-
IS
2*
. .<• ■ - .:.-.m- va--; V •
>mss*r&
• r* A • Vi. ;.i'v,;i A<f.-»VT •;
* l ’ • V V/ < ’ f A#'. •;j
miMM
e
V-Y
f A
m
, f
MM
■/, ',■ •_ V -- * V. r'. 7 -•
"S
to
m
■Oi .y.»
w
as
7-Asc^wy:-i<3aft3-i'*
•
»S(
•w. ■)
M
ii
Hi
«A
COBRA, ?she Floor Polish, is as
good as COBRA, 15he Boot Polish,
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Travels in his
Old canoe
Down the shining
Hallway River
Where no whisp’ring
Reed-beds quiver.
Like Dick Arnst on
The Zambesi
Chunder paddles
Gay and easy.
No wild hippos
Can demolish
Him! THE RIVER’S
MADE OF POLISH!


The
pleasure
of
Cycling
depends
on the
Tyres
used.
kv
77
/?
7
an
»
WW I f!
If you ordei
DUNLOP
TYRES
you make a certainty
of riding the Best that
money can produce, for
these Tyres are Easily
the most Reliable and
Durable obtainable.
Accept no cheap substitutes.
Protect yourself by
seeing that Tyres bear
this Trade Mark
ALL AGENTS.
ĥ
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.. All State, and N.Z.
m
oli
ce
7eaS
TRY THEM!
We desire users of Rubber Heels to
try our “ POLICE ” brand, they
being of special thickness and quality.
They will cost you a few pence more,
but the extra Comfort and Wear
WARRANTS IT.
ONE TRIAL will convince you that
these Heels are unequalled for Wear
and Comfort. Be sure that the Heels
are branded “ Dunlop Police Heels.”
OBTAINABLE ALL LEADINC BOOT STORES.
■A
every
man
we
recom-
mends
DUNLOP
RUBBER CO.
All States & N.Z
HAYWARD’S
Costumes 8 Riding Habits
are Known All Over Australia.
WRITE OR CALL FOR
CATALOGUE OF NEW FASHIONS.
323 George Street, Sydney
Opp.
Paling's.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, Mat 29, 1911.
My Dear Yarrie,—
New State Governor Fuller is small in stature,
intensely domesticated, and owns a deep bass
voice which made the oath-taking ceremony of
last week quite impressive. A selected trio of
children represented the full-Fuller-Fullest nur-
sery, and listened at his left elbow. The Fuller
lady is a very pretty woman, and looked it even
after the fag of an Adelaide-to-Melbourne train
journey. It was cruel to heap the swearing-in
ceremony on top of a rush like that; but I sup-
pose there is some good reason for extracting the
promise to be good and true as soon as possible.
The six very small children, bunched in
an open landau with two very big aides, made an
attractive group. They all wore the same sort of
simple powder-blue costume and round “Peggy ”
hat garlanded with wild flowers. All have hair
fair as maize tassels, and you can’t tell whether
any of them are bigger than the others till you
look twice.
Sassiety got to the House early, and sat
squashed in the galleries and corners of the Coun-
cil chamber for a solid hour and a half. Later
arrivals crowded into Queen’s Hall. The
arrival of one small but swelling dig-
nitary after another kept the well dressed
flock interested during the long wait. Arch-
bishop Clarke, in black and scarlet robes,
nodded on his bench while the hands of the clock
toiled round. The blare of the anthem woke him
up and everybody else, and the new Excellencies,
entering, almost wilted under the concentrated
stare.
Lady Fuller’s sables held every feminine eye.
They were spread in a great cape of tails over the
green dress which swathed a tall and wil-
lowy figure. A Gainsborough hat with plumes
hemmed in her reddish-fair hair, and made an
artistic frame for an oval face. The Oath-taker
himself wore a blac-k and silver uniform, and a hat
or helmet with beautiful feathers sprouting from
its crown, which added a foot or more to his
height. It was most impressive headgear, no
doubt; but it caused some confusion, for the
Bible on which the oath was taken took up nearly
all the room on the table, and so crowded the
millinery that it nearly toppled over. His Ex.
dived to save it, and an aide carried it out of
danger.
Justice Hodges, wrapped in his horsehair head-
rug, stood over the swearing Governor, and
engineered the ceremonial book-kissings, which
amounted to frantic dabs.
Then followed the presentation of the legisla-
tors. They filed past in a long crow-like stream,
and solemnly pumphandled first his Ex. and then
her Ex., who smiled and seemed to enjoy it.
Later on another pumpliandling ceremony was
gone through in Queen’s Hall. Members with
their wives and daughters filed past the dais in a
steady card-laden stream. New Aide Awdrey
seized the pasteboards with an anxious look and
passed them on to Secretary Victor Hood, who
breathed the names into the Governor’s ear with
the glibness born of long practice.
Lieutenant-Governor Madden and his lady
supported the new vice-regal pair. The lady did
her handshaking in a grey frock with squirrel
furs cosily tucked round her. Daughter Beatrice
stood in the background, in a blue cloth dress
and a large flat black hat. Mrs. Frank Madden
made friends with the children, who were “on”
in this scene also. Miss Phipps, a sister of Lady
Fuller, is a tall, handsome brunette. She wore a
red dress with black furs, and kept a watchful eye
on the three infants. The Chinese Consul-
General wore a learned look and large spectacles.
His wife is a dainty little woman with an ivory
face and a scarlet button of a mouth. She wore
no hat; her Chinese dress included a tunic of a
gorgeous blue, like lapis lazuli.
The new aides have amazing things in the way
of Scotch dress. Aide Awdrey sported plaid
stockings of pink and white, with an enormous
check. The hats are magnificent white towers
with scarlet feathers waving from the top.
Tea was the final item of the day’s doings, and
great was the rush to it.
The Fullers appeared on Saturday afternoon at
Melbourne Cricket Ground for the football match,
and motored across Princes Bridge to the
Cathedral on Sunday morning. Barraeker to-day
and bishop to-morrow —it looks as if the family is
going to proceed on safe lines !
Malvern, where the imported State Governors
have hung out their coats-of-arms to dry since the
Commonwealth came into being, lias been pro-
claimed a city. To celebrate the event. Mayor
and Mayoress M‘Kinley will hold a reception in
the local gardens on May 30, just when this letter
is being soldered together. Governor Fuller is
to read the proclamation, and the citizens are ex-
pected to cheer loudly and wave their top-hats.
Miss GSnone Molesworth, youngest daughter of
the late Judge Molesworth, is to be wedded in
London on 7th June. The husband-to-be is F.
B. Lefroy who owns a big place in Ireland, as
well as some position in the Prince of Wales’s
Leinster Regiment.
Miss Mollie Ryan, who is to shortly wed with
Dr. Lang, is a member of the family which has
for headlights Lady Charles Scott and Dr.
“Plevna” Charlie. Miss Mollie—the consular
medical warrior’s niece—does not sit wholly in the
shadow; she paints other people’s faces upon
ivory with considerable success. Dr. Lang is a
son of the late “Pat” Lang, well known in the
Victorian squattocracy.
When Ola Jane Humphrey married her
Egyptian cup of coffee she took him along to
the Strand Registry Office, and the whole busi-
ness was through in half an hour. The witnesses
were the American Consul, Oscar Comte de
Nevers, and Mr. J. J. Edwards. They all
motored to the office from the theatre. Ola
Jane wore a little blue toque on her auburn hair ;
the rest of her was disguised in a pearl-grey dress,
with a blue silk scarf over her shoulders. Ibrahim
Hassan, who is something over 30, wore just the
ordinary tubes that Englishmen wear, with a
black morning coat and a silk hat. That for a
prince of the Ottoman Empire !
One of the prettiest of Melbourne Sassiety
girls, Maud Fitzgerald, indulged in a simple
wedding in the month of May. The bridegroom
was Ted O'Keefe, of Adelaide Vale. Only the
nearest relations of the two were present. The
bride wore a grey tailor-made travelling-dress,
and sister Nance was bridesmaid. The couple
afterwards went to Healesville for a few days
before leaving for a European wedding trip.
The Hughes mayoral pair, of St. Kilda, have
asked a lot of people to desert their firesides in
order to hop and otherwise disport themselves to
music on the evening of June 20, which is in the
close neighborhood of the Coronation.
Children’s dances and Punch-and-Judy parties
we to be prominent items on the winter bill of
fare. Children are “in.” The Fullers have
made them popular for the moment. So far, these
chickens have appeared everywhere—or repre-
sentative contingents of them ; only the baby
hasn’t made a public bow yet.
The Princess’s was packed on Saturday night to
welcome the Wykeham frivollers, and if there
wasn’t a feast of reason there was a light supper
of laughter. “Seven Days” is all non-
sense, pretty girl and froth. Ruby Bax-
ter wears Palotta-chosen gowns with a Viennese
snap about them. One is of brilliant
paddy-green satin, and black veiling, with aged
cream lace. Another dream is in honey-colored
crepe. Miss Baxter is a finely tinted brunette, so
the color harmony is perfect. Miss Redfern wears
something striking in rose color and peach, and
Maud Chetwynd dances in pink and white sti iped
“ pashas.” A “Melbourne Sassiety girl,” masked
and anonymous, shows an excellent figure in a
Judith dance, which is mostly writhing. Every-
one is guessing hard as to the identity of the white-
limbed lady with the swirling draperies.
Vida Goldstein, twice a Victorian candidate for
the Senate, writes that she is cari-ying all before
her with the suffragett* s in England, and is over-
whelmed with invitations to the “best houses.”
Press accounts show that her platform addresses
are immensely applauded, and altogether she's the
next-best Australian petricoated advertisement
after Melba and Ciossley. Though Vida is more
than 17 she has the advantage of not looking the
much more that she is, and there isn’t likely to be
such a fine woman on the British political boards.
H. H. Champion, of Melbourne, formerly associ-
ated with Burns and Hyivdman, is her brother-
in-law ; and that meant introductions and some
very useful signalling ahead.
From a woman in one of the outposts of the
Northern Territory :
Oh, ves, we have our “ help ” troubles, too. But when
our Mary Ann goes alonga bush (wil hout notice) or gets
sacked (without nonce) for stealing sugar, we can’t fall
back on the past-O’-cook or ham and beef shop,< but
have to make our own bread and cake and pastry, and
cook our own meals, and do our own everything else.
We make all, or nearly all, our own and our husband’s
and children's clothes and hats, mend our own boots,
and make our own furniture. As far as newspapers and
magazines will help us, we keep in touch with the ques-
tions of the day, and can generally hold our own in an
argument. If you were to visit us, you would find us
anxious to hear all ihe latest news, and eager, to see the
latest fashions ; and in return we wou d probably give
you a menu something like the following, every bit of
which would be cooked by ourselves: —
Breakfast: Native-companion steak, eggs, coffee and
hot scones.
Dinner: Roast kangaroo leg, potatoes, onions, peas,
tomatoes, pudding and custard.
Afternoon tea : Tea, scones, cake, bread and butter,
jam.
Tea : Kangaroo-tail soup, curried duck, stewed fruit,
jelly and custard.
Miss Sumner Locke, who has pushed a smart
little pen in sundry journals, publishes her first
book, “Mum Dawson Boss,” at an early date.
Souter attends to the illustrations.
Doy Bird, the popular daughter of Dr. Fred,
has her trunks labelled for Fogland, and is being
farewelFd by ninny friends. Lynn Tcare gave
her a jolly good-bye at the Quamby Club, to
which a flock of girl chums were bidden. The
chief amusement was crystal-gazing, and it kept
the function going at full speed. A veiled lady
conducted the performance and handed out the
information about fair and dark men. The red-
haired man never seems to be mentioned.
Enid Derham, one of Melbourne’s youthful
blue-stockings, is lecturing the Women’s Political
Ass. on “ Women and Literature.” So far, she
has shown that the tight-lacing fashion is nearly
5000 years old—as witness the wasp-waisted terra-
cotta figures, of Crete 3000 B.C. —that Sappho of
Lesbia was a suffragette, and that “in Athens
women h id to be either respectable and bored, or
unrespectable and happy.” All of which is very
literary.
Grace Palotta had bad news as a whip to hurry
her away from Australia. Her mother is seriously
ill, and Grace is flying to Vienna as fast as the
Osterley will take her.
The Wykeham season, which opened at the
Princess’s on Saturday night, had a “wireless”
from Grace Palotta to wish the new management
good luck. Cocos Island picked up the message
and transmitted it to Fremantle; thence it was
dropped in to Melbourne.
Lady Halle, who died a month ago, stirred
musical Australia to enthusiasm in days when
the country was not so bombarded by celebrities.
Her public career stretched over 65 years ; for,
as Wilma Netuda, she played a Bach sonata
when she was no bigger than her violin. London
took to her a little later as Madame Norma
Neruda. Queen Alexandra made her “Violinist
to the Queen ” ; then King Edward passed round
the hat to recognise her genius, and a
couple of other musical monarchs went on
the subscription committee—the King of Sweden
and the King of Denmark. With the proceeds of
that remarkable “benefit ” she bought a mansion
near Venice. Sir Charles Haile, with whom she
visited Australia, was her second husband. They
had divided the last years of their life between
London and Berlin. Probably the Venetian
palace was shut up for lack of Mary Anns.
Oaklands Hunt Club races at Moonee Valley
on Saturday drew the motored in large quantities.
The soupfon of gentleman-riders in the jockey
list takes the butterflies even to the Valley on an
east wind day. The keen sporting women were
mostly disguised in waste-paper basket hats and
furs.
Brief note from a girl-friend in distress :
Walt Whitman called grass “ the beautiful green
hair of graves,” didn’t he? Well, he would enjoy our
lawn ju3t now. The mower is a ruin ; and since the long-
dead day I tried to give the crop a hair-cut and retired
hurt, the machine has slumbered in the woodshed under-
neath the coal. Meanwhile the grass has gone on grow-
ing. Mo her looked at the waving wilderness of green
the other morning and a bright idea lit her face. “ We’ll
get a lamb,” she said ; “ it will be cheaper than a gar-
dener.” But I’m sure it won’t do. If one lamb, alone
and unaided, can eat all that sword-edged stuff, Australia „
couldn’t have run more than four lambs to each State.
So I urged th - maternal head of the house to hire a man
with a scythe. Mother, who is like a Royal Commission
in such matters, is now engaged thinking it over in five
volumes ; the grass is shooting skyward like a broadside
of green rockets ; and the side of the garden where the
best roses are is utterly lost to me. I can see she is
giving up the lamb idea with great difficulty.
“Madame” bad only just been imported to
adorn the showroom, and had not vetinet’Arriet.
“Good morning,” she said sweetly. “Something
I could show you ? ” “An ’at !” ’ “Ah ! This is
very chic —and it would make you look much
taller.” “Ur! Thanks! Me bloke’s short.”
After which she knew ’Arriet just a little bit
better.
The sensational Darios, who used to throw
each other round the stage to music, are keeping
a dainty Paris parasol shop these days. The
male partner had an accident, and the doctors
prohibited all dancing for some time to come.
Hence the sunshade establishment. When he is
quite recovered, the pair will probably take
engagements again and let someone else sell the
red umbrellas.
From my Adelaide correspondent:—
Empire Day and a plethora of State Governors foreed
the local bunting to work overtime this week. The
Meath festival caused the various statues to blossom into
wierdly unsuitable festoons of greenery. A bronze-
mounted horseman does not. look bis best trimmed as if
he were a section of a suburban ballroom.
On Saturday the old and the new Governors of Vic.
arrived more or less simultaneously. Detachments from
Government House met them and presented them to the
Hills In a semi-official sort of way, and there were motor
jaunts and much hurried sight-seeing. The Gibson-
Carmichaels departed for Madras by the India.
The S.P.C.A. is clearing its decks for action with a
vigor which should bring comfort to many ill-used
animals. The society has always done good, useful
work in a quiet way, but is now spreading its wings for
further flight. There are rumors of various innovations,
from extra inspectors downwards. The annual meet-
ing, which is billed for Monday, has secured vice-regal
patronage, and, what is more to the point, has made a
successful bid for the sympathy of well-known racing
men and sportsmen.
Apropos sportsmen, the treatment which the Adelaide
Hunt Club deals out to its hounds is a useful object
lesson for the public. Tne kennels are models of spotless
cleanliness and good order. Many a human might almost
envy the “ dog's life ” of the inmates of the club's pre-
mises.
The Literary Theatre scored a double success on Tues-
day night, when it strove to raise funds to furnish the
Literary Club. The house was packed, and laurels
sprouted all over the players.
Another excellent show was Miss Cheek’s concert at
the King’s Theatre. The songsters got a helping hand
from violinist Nora Kyffin Thomas and pianist Gordon
Short.
The wife of E. T. Smith is ill, and Adelaide is very
sorry. The lady got a severe shock in a carriage smash
some time since, and never properly recovered ; but it is
only quite lately that her condition began to cause her
friends anxiety.
Minda (the home for weak-minded children) is gradu-
ally developing a “ policy.” The secretary's repori at the
annual meeting mentioned that the authorities ha\e
grasped the fact that, even if the poor mites are taught
to read, they can’t get much at th«* meaning of things;
so the teachers get them to memorise as much
as possible—especially simple rhymes which may help to
awaken any imagination that may exist.
Weeping and gnashing of teeth prevails in the Willunga
district, which split itself into two factionsandsquabbled
violently over the to-be or not-to-be of its railway. The
financial guarantee required by the Government was the
rock on which it was rent. Finally the “ yes ” faction
won, but now the whole thing is upset because of some
informality. The row is said to be the first thing that
has ever been loud enough to wake Willunga up.
Sincerely yours,
JOHANNA.
Mrs. Carrie Nation, the window-smaslier,
broke into the next world at Leavenworth City,
Kansas, on April 10. Carrie’s plan in temperance
reform was to walk down the street with some
bricks wrapped in old newspaper, and heave them
through pub as she passed. For this
little foible she was gaoled 22 times in various
American cities from ’Frisco to N’York. The
lady’s most classic performance was when she
entered the N York beer saloon of John L. Sulli-
van with a brick in each hand. Johnell had
fought Slavic, but he fled from Mrs. Nation, and
hid himself in the kitchen until she departed.
Unfortunately, she never met J. Johnsing.
Carrie’s “anti-rum campaign” led to prohibi-
tion in some western States of America; so the
chemist who is now making a fortune out of the
medicine on the top shelf has much to thank her
for.
J. P. Wilson, S.A. Minister of Agricul-
ture, is a bootmaker, and some time ago ex-
Premier Peake sneeringly threw at him the pro-
verb, “ The shoemaker should stick to his last.’
By general consent of the producers, however,
Wilson has made a much better head of the Agri-
cultural Department than any of his three prede-
cessors for the last five or six years, namely,
Farmer O Loughlin, Journalist Coombe and Dry-
Farmer Paseoe. They all lacked courage, initia-
tive and imagination.
“Hamer” : One of the Coronation
hangers-on called at Hamerville th@ other day
and wanted to sell some decorations for Corona-
tion Day. He had some flags which purported to
be Union Jacks, but weren’t, and were apparently
made in Germany. He also had some portraits of
King George and Queen Mary, which were pub-
lished in Vienna; some handkerchiefs with the
royal phiz upon them which came from Paris;
and a litter of other rubbish which came from
almost every where except Britain or Australia. I
told him I didn’t know anything about the
Coronation, and therefore didn’t feel inclined to
speculate ; and when he told me that George was
to be crowned king, I expressed surprise and said
that I did not know Lord Dudley was dead.
He tried to enlighten my ignorance; but when I
asked him if Britain was the place where the
revolution occurred, he staggered away in a dazed
condition.
London papers lately recorded the exhi-
bition of what is alleged to be Oliver Cromwell’s
bead to the members of the Royal Archaeological
Society. A parson, one H. R. Wilkinson, is its
present proprietor. When Oliver died his head
was embalmed, and later it was impaled on a pike
on the roof of Westminster Hall. In a violent
storm in 1686 it was blown down, and the yarn is
that a thieving sentry carried it home under his
cloak. Nearly 100 years ago the Rev. Wilkinson’s
grandfather bought it from the daughter of a man
who had been exhibiting it at half a crown per
spectator. The learned archaeologists at the exhi-
bition in April expressed themselves as quite
satisfied that the head was originally the property
of Oliver.
J. R. Anderson, South Australia’s new
and comparatively youthful K.C., has begun to
chip in to the tongue-warfare that goes on when-
ever Symon and Paris Nesbit meet in court on
opposite sides —which is nearly all the time. The
other day Symon complained of the way Ander-
son shouted in court, whereupon the junior came
in with the soft answer that turns oh wrath : “Of
course, my friend never shouts”—which is a com-
pliment or otherwise, just as you take it.
Maoriland is gaping with astonishment
over the details of the troubles which have hit
the two Bowrons who held up the business end
of the old leather firm in London. The London
firm, which isn’t connected with the M.L. firm
nowadays, smashed badly a few months ago, and
presently a warrant dropped in for the arrest of
the two principals and a man n mied Knight, who
is alleged to have been a dummy of theirs.
According to the prosecution, Knight, who
represented the Phoenix Wharf, had a habit of
signing documents purporting to show that the
wharf had received vast specified consignments of
skins from Maoriland, and on the«e documents
another firm—Booth and Co.—made advances.
When the Booths smelt something, and went to
look for their skins, they weren't there, and
neither was a handy little £28,*170. Then the
smash happened ; and now Costs are going to
argue at great length whether it’s a criminal
matter or a good old “ custom of the trade.”
ON THE ROAD.
[FOR THE BULLEITN.]
The Fatman whirls on his cushioned way.
I see him frown as his motor passe- ;
A peaceful road and a bright blue day,
But he fouls it all with his dust and gases ;
The rich man rides,
And the poor man strides;
I belong to the walking classes.
N.S.W.
FRANCIS E.


SCHWEPPES’ DRY GINGER ALE
RWSJI*
'll
rw
■ *>.
iv>
' 0
V
v /
~/k
9*
{ W %¥
1 *&
RSS •■
Ml !
r 4 T k ffi
M k .;• : £***
• I it, s*. ■ ■
Always Order
Schweppes’
Dry Ging'er Ale.
jZ7
Avoid Substitutes
and Imitations.
Awarded
i
Grand Prix,
London, 1908.
£5O REWARD.
PASSING off SUBSTITUTES for SCHWEPPES.
IMPORTANT NOTICE.
OWING to the increasing practice of passing off cheaper substitutes for our Brands when asked for. we desire
to give notice that this practice, being a breach of the Trade Marks Act, is illegal. “ SCHWEPPES ”is
a Registered Trade Name and applies only to the Productions made by us exclusively.
We would call the attention of Vendors to the fact that if a person calls for SCHWEPPES’ SODA DRY
GINGER ALE and the Hotelkeeper or Vendor by his Servant or Agent puts down another Brand, without saying
distinctly and definitely that it is not Schweppes’, such person is liable to proceedings being taken by way of
application for an Injunction with costs.
After this date, the above proceedings will be taken, under the Commonwealth Trade Marks Act, against all
persons who continue to pass off other substitutes as ours.
A REWARD OF £5O IS OFFERED TO ANY PERSON giving such information as will lead to a
successful prosecution for passing off, conditionally on the recovery of the costs awarded by the Court against the
defendant.
Head Office: 49 PALL MALL, LONDON.
SCHWEPPES’ CHILLIE PUNCH
Wholesale Price, 10/6 per dozen.


WATSON'S N° 10
WHISKY
There’s a richness—a ripe, full=
flavored goodness in Watson’s No.
10 you will find in no other Whisky.
It never varies—one bottle like
another.
fwr»
<***&
"£&tvrule&-
Laxo-Tonic Pills
Are both laxative and tonic in action. They do
not gripe, but do their work quickly, effectively
and painlessly. Sold at 10jd. and Is. Gd.*
NOT ENOUGH BLOOD
TO KEEP GOING
This Woman fell away to a
Shadow.
Weak and Miserable; Heart
Palpitation, Headaches, In-
digestion: Cured by Dr.
Williams' Pink Pills.
How good Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are in
cases of Anaemia or bloodlessness is shown
in the case of Mrs. M. Bell, 43 Belmore
Street, St. Peters, Sydney. She was typi-
cally anaemic, and had all the worst symp-
toms. She was attended by doctors, but
obtained no benefit and continued to suffer
for years. Mrs. Bell says that Dr. Wil-
liams’ Pink Pills increased her blood supply
and quite cured her. The following state-
ment was made by Mrs. Bell: —
“I showed signs of anaemia at about 14.
My appetite failed completely. All my
strength and brightness ebbed away. My
flesh wasted till I was terribly thin. My
blood was so watery that my lips and cheeks
and gums were like chalk. The veins would
not bleed at all if I cut my finger. My feet
and hands were always cold and clammy.
My ankles and wrists would puff up very
much. My head would ache so distractingly
I had to get glasses, as my eyes were af-
fected. I would feel utterly done up all the
time ; I took no pleasure or interest in any-
thing. I dare not walk quickly, for my
breath would go and my heart would thump
so furiously. I rarely got a good night's
rest; I would just toss about for hours and
wake up after a doze quite unfit to get
through the day. The doctor said I was
anaemic, and I had a good deal of advice and
medicine, but found no benefit whatever. I
remained in this state for some years. It
was not tiii I tried Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills
that my health came back. Some days I
could not keep my food down, and in any
case I never relished it. It had no taste
to me unless it had an acid flavor. _ I would
get such queer faint turns too, as if I were
about to swoon. I vrould long to sit about
all day, and not lift a finger. I started tak-
ing three pills a day, as my mother, who had
been cured of Rheumatism by them, begged
me to try them, and after a fetv doses I
fancied I was a little brighter. My mother
got some more, and presently I could feel my
strength returning. I began to look for-
ward to meal time. My blood began to turn
richer, and tne color tinged my lips and face
and showed in my eyelids. Tne headaches
yielded, and I took an interest in what was
going on around me. I began to fill out,
and in time every symptom wore away.”
Remember, only the genuine Dr. Williams'
Pink Pills cure. Don’t be gulled into tak-
ing something said to be just as good. Of
all dealers at’ 2s. 9d. per box, 6 boxes 15s
3d., or from the Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co.
of Australasia Ltd., Sydney.
Mptore
OENYER
Single, 17/6;
Double, 22/6
Call or write.
A good Truss
—D en y er’s
Special Elas-
tic Truss— is
a perfect sup-
port and safe-
guard. Per-
fectly com-
fortable ; n o
chafing.
We give
exact fit.
Denyer BrDS., Makers of Treses & Abdominal
281 GEORGE ST. (opp. Hunter St.), SYDNEY : and
at Melbourne, cor. Swanston & Lonsdale Streets.
POLITICAL
POINTS
JOHN FLEETWOOD FULLER ,
GOVERNOR OF VICTORIA.
the Arr tlm other dflV
Said the AGE the Otnei (laj .
The representatives of the over-sea dominions, now
in England, are there receiving their full share ot
attention. Mr. Fisher cannot coruscate in oratorical
fireworks, but the good sense of Englishmen has long
ago learned the lesson that the mere orator is often
a being possessed of a solitary gift, which is fre-
fluently delusive as to his true ability.
Alfred Deakin?
During his recent visit to Sydney Deakin
told interviewers that “he was not talking
politics.” But he never does: he just talks
round politics.
According to the “Liberal” Acting-Premier
of Victoria, Conservatism thereabouts is
dead. Willie is wrong. The lady has merely
taken the name of the party she is living
with at present.
At Gwalia (W.A.), where J. Bull owns the
best gold mining properties, much, if not most,
of the underground work is done by Italians
who can’t speak English, and Afghans are
employed as wood carters. The Mining Act
forbids' the employment of Asiatics and
others who can’t speak English, but the
Mines Department has apparently gummed
down that leaf of its copy of the law.
The Westralian Labor party, which lias
a rosy chance of getting on the Treasury
Benches after the approaching general elec-
tion, has determined to run a candidate for
every constituency in the State. The idea
is to keep the enemy closely engaged, and at
the same time test the party’s strength in
places supposed to be sacred to the bat ot
Groperdom.
The municipally-owned trams of Adelaide
have hitherto drawn their .power from the
Private Enterprise electric light co. Pri-
, vate Enterprise can always, of course, “do
the thing better” ; still, whenever there was
an extra-heavy load to lift, the cars had a
habit of refusing to budge. The Trust soon
saw that it must make its own power, so a
factory has been built at Port Adelaide, and
within a few days the Trust will be inde-
pendent of P.E., and Adelaide will be surer
than ever that it has the finest tram-service
in the whole world.
The N.S.W. Labor Government is deadly
slow in one matter. Notwithstanding a
number of hints, it doesn’t take up the idea
of spending public money on a book describ-
ing the transcendent qualities of Ministers.
Now, George Reid had hardly time to get
into office and send out for three-penn’orth
of lollies before he had a book in prepara-
tion, with one picture of himself and others
of Cook and Gould and Carrutliers _ and
Garrard and Syd Pumpkin, and other illus-
trious henchmen, all finely displayed at the
expense of the jolly and fat taxpayer.
As usual, B. Smith rushed round on
Shampire Day asking school youngsters
what they would think of anybody who told
them that, after their mothers and fathers
had brought them up, they ought to forget
all about the old people, and clear off with-
out giving them any return for all their
services. B. Smith didn’t ask what the
youngsters would think of anybody (B.
Smith, for instance) who would tell them
that, after the old people had brought them
through childhood, they should continue to
loaf on the old people for Defence and such
like.
Victoria’s costs in the action which settled
the ancient dispute about the boundary line
between that State and South Aus. came
to £5500, of which K.C.’s Mitchell and Ice-
berg Irvine and Professor Harrison Moore
and lawyer Starke annexed £3350. Be-
sides the strip of land that the row was
about, the Murray State gains some £34,000,
part payments for railway works carried out
around Serviceton. That is to say, one
State Treasurer has that much more to spend
and the other that much less; but Australia
is exactly where it was before —except that
a quantity of money which might have been
spent in development has been spent in jaw.
Labor organisation in N.S.W. has made a
• notable advance by the affiliation of the two
large country workers’ associations with
the Labor Council^—the A.W.U. and
the Rural Workers’ Union. The latter,
„ after a battle, has \ started to grow
rapidly. The infusion of the Aus-
tralian sentiment which characterises the
Shearers’, and which will probably be found
also in the Rural Workers’ Union, won’t harm
the Labor Council, which has had an ab-
normal idea of the importance of Sydney.
Senator Rae is one of the delegates of the
Rural Workers’ Union; and that is one
pretty good sign that its spine isn’t made of
soap.
Amazing the diverse views a Right Think-
ing daily paper is capable of taking on dif-
ferent dates. This is what the Sydney
Telegraph: said when it was striving to in-
duce Laborites to vote “No” to the Refer-
enda proposals :
To give a vote on party lines is to sacrifice the
fundamental principle of the Referendum. Such a
proceeding renders the final appeal to the people
absolutely useless; for the result is merely a re-
flection of the strength of parties in the representa-
tive assemblies.
And this is what it said when, admittedly
as a result of Labor voters supporting the
Anti-Labor ticket, the proposals were de-
feated :
The undeniable truth is that the amendments were
brought forward as essential if the Government was
to be allowed to effectuate its policy; consequently
the people carried a no-confidence motion aqainst
the Government more emphatic and authoritative
than any that could be passed by Parliament.
And the Telegraph has the nerve to repro-
bate spielers who get there by means of
double-headed pennies!
The councillors of Richmond (Vic.) passed
two significant motions at a recent meeting,
Labor councillors protesting. The first was
for the expenditure of certain rate-money on
decorating the town hall on Coronation Day;
the next for floating a loan to improve some
of the city’s main streets. Both proposals
were sponsored by pawnbrokers. Which re-
vives Trenwith’s old gibe, in the days when
he was a vile Democrat—“ This council is
composed of brokers, oawnbrokers and stone-
brokers.”
A PROTEST.
SYDNEY DAILY TELEGRAPH takes exception to the
Imperial Conference being closed to the Press.
THE D.T.: “ There , now! That's what it
weans."
J. B ULL: “ Tut, tut, tut! You forget yourself
—this is a meeting of the dear old Hempire,
and not of the Labor party!”
When Gregory Wade, Y.C., moved his
spirited want of confidence amendment in
the N.S.W. Parliament, the Daily Tele-
graph spanked him for wasting time, point-
ing out that the Government would have a
certain majority of one when it came to the
vote. Owing to a typographical error, no
doubt, the figure 3 was dropped. The vote
resulted: For the amendment, 25; against
it, 38; majority, 13.
Melbourne Argus still harps on its pleas-
ant little idea of an electoral jerrymander to
give the city 24 seats and the country 36,
which would mean that two men in the
country would have as much political “say”
as three in the city. When the dreamy old
paper wakes up it will perceive that no re-,
distribution of seats is possible this Parlia-
ment, and the constitution of the next is on
the knees of the gods and the Labor Leagues.
Doubtless redistribution is needed, but unless
a swindle is worked, Fat’s best if not his
only hope is to break up the big estates and
get the land genuinely settled. And he has
an idea that that medicine is worse than the
disease.
Over 3000 applications have been re-
ceived by Labor Minister Millar (M.L.)
from workers wanting to get a roof of their
own under the Workers’ Dwellings Act.
Any landless worker with a tenner can put
it down with his application for a house
and section of land up to £6OO in value, and
is required to pay no more till he gets the
house and begins to make his yearly pay-
ment of £7 per £lOO, by instalments. In
25 years these payments will leave him with
a free roof-tree. But he must not be earn-
ing more than £175. a year when he applies,
and he must be satisfied to be put into spe-
cial settlements. The 3000 applicants have
a poor show thi« year, as only £15,000 was
voted to start the scheme; but Millar ex-
pects to get his hands on £lOO,OOO for next
year, and the Rentlord is shouting for help
at the top of his voice, and forgetting all
the beautiful things he ever said about the
virtue of thrift.
The wife deserter is a solid upholder of
State Frights. The State law can pursue
him only as far as the imaginary barrier or
creek which separates it from the next cab-
bage patch ; once the fugitive is over, it has to
turn its horse round and ride home to open
up negotiations with the foreigners. Acting-
Premier Holman is going to try to arrange
that an order obtained by a deserted wife
in Maoriland, Victoria or South Aus. may
be enforced against the husband in N.S.W. —
the other nations, of course, to reciprocate.
If the thing is fixed up by the four Parlia-
ments, the deserter in future will have to fly
to Queensland, Westralia, or Tasmania. Of
course in time the rulers of those distant re-
gions may also fall into line. But, before
that is accomplished, seven Parliaments will
have to wrestle with the subject; and a lot
of time can ripen and rot before seven herds
of politicians agree about anything.
“Locust”: Reference (B. 27/4/T1) to
the “long-distance” men in the N.S.W. House
of Assembly—to wit, Levien, McFariane,
Charlie Lee, John Nobbs and W. McCourt
—brightens up the fact that political medio-
crities appear to have the best chance of
surviving in politics. Of the bunch,
McCourt is the only man of fair political
capacitv. A few years ago the two long-
distance men of the House were the Browns
(brothers), who stopped in for nearly 30
years each. Then there was the allegedly
unbeatable “Jack” Barnes, who had a long
innings. All these were silent members,
who merely voted and drew their salaries
(when there were salaries to draw) —-men
who did nothing remarkable, and did not
even allow anything special to remain un-
done. Of course there have been long-dis-
tance exceptions to this rule, such as Parkes,
but he had to shift from constituency to
constituency, and finally he was contume-
liously bumped out by Jessep in Waverley.
Melbourne Argus got out its feather duster
and dealt another death-blow to Labor the
other day, when it published a list of secre-
taries and others receiving pay from the
various unions, under the heading, Living
on Unionism.” The price of each secre-
tary was set opposite his name. Cut
of the 55 listed only one gets more than z. 4 —-
for a job which entails a lot of solid graft-
ing. Strange to say, the Argus omits from
its list a late member of its own staff, who
fell in for a juicy billet as hired organiser
and barracker for an association of Affluent
Employers, at a screw equal to about as
much as any three of the Labor secretaries
draw. It is now up to the organ with the im-
placable conscience to run out another article
headed, “Living on Non-Unionism,” with re-
flections on the exceeding advantages of the
system from the employer’s point of view.
Wilfrid Laurier, of Canada, wants to
make naturalisation certificates granted in
any one part of the British
Empire hold good in any
other part. Under this beau-
tiful scheme anybody of any
race or color, after fulfilling
conditions in England, where
a nigger is more precious than
a lord, could become a natur-
alised Australian. Of course
the matter, which is to be
brought up at the Imperial
Conference, will be passed out.
But what a cranky notion to
come from Laurier, who is
having more than enough
trouble nowadays trying to
keep American niggers and
Chows out of Canada!
“Liberal”-Colonel Ryrie mentioned during
the Vampire Day celebrations that he had had
a shot at Botha at 1750 yards in S’Africa.
He missed, and Botha was preserved for his
big useful job of Prime Minister. Civilisa-
tion benefits by the misses of the Colonel
Ryries; Freedom mostly goes into mourning
when they hit.
AN ELEGY.
[FOR THE BULLEITN.]
Acting-Premier Watt, of Victoria, was understood
■to announce the decease of the party on which his
Ministry depends. He did so in the simple and
affecting formula —“Conservatism is dead.”
Dead ! Let us deck with rue the mournful hearse,
Tie our black hatbands with memorial crape,
And with a melancholy music drape
Our souls in gloomy trappings of sad verse!
He slept. The happy solace of slow breath
Rose like dim incense round him as he lay;*
The blossoms blushed, the world without was gay —
His heaving waistcoat gave no hint of death.
,He slumbered on. The.quiet gum-leaf drew
Sustaining vigor from the self-same bough;
Unholy Labor with wrath-furrowed brow
1 Shook not the quiet moss that round him grew.
; Large words could not awake him, nor the cry
Of falling parties thundering to their doom ;
He oped no eye to mark the world a-bloom
With the red rose of Sosh athwart the sky.
“He will awake,” we said, “he will awake;
His strong soul from the mist of slumber freed
Will thrill the land with wondrous work and deed,
And Progress, like a sunburst, o’er us break.”
Yet through the years his quiet breath he drew;
Men came and went with curses or with prayer;
Calm and unmoved, oblivious of all care,
; He took his sleep of office, and his screw.
Victoria, bound in fetters called his name;
Her homeless wastes groaned wide beneath their
sheep;
The curse of mutton and the blight of sleep
; Left her with empty hands to weep her shame.
He did not wake; he did not lift his head;
All silent and unmoved ne passed away;
I We had not known, but that we heard him say—
“My sleep is over, lam henceforth dead.” •
Dead! And the tale is told, the wine is spent!
Down the dark way the hearse is toiling slow;
The dark plumes wave, the sombre trappings show
j Murray and Watt in one deep burial blent!
i Dead! With the wine-grapes glowing in the press!
Dead ! E’er the loud elections struck the blow !
Dead in deep sleep, and slain, as all men l:noiv,
By sheer inanity and uselessness!
N.S.W.
PAT O’MAORI.


THE WONDERFUL
AUTO-
THE ONLY PERFECT PLAYER PIANO.
Closed as an ordinary Plano.
Open as a Player Plano.
The Player-Piano that is “Different.”
We sell on the Easiest Possible Terms.
Full value allowed for your ordinary Piano.
NICHOLSON U CO. LIMITED
SYDNEY, NEWCASTLE, ORANGE,
* TOOWOOMBA and WARWICK.
Book Early! Book Early !
FOR THE PATHE PICTURES of the
Unveiling of Queen
Victorias Statue
By THE KING and QUEEN
in presence of a crowd of Royalties, including THE EMPEROR AND
EMPRESS OF GERMANY.
REMEMBER! Australia is represented in the Memorial, and the Prime
Minister assisted at the Ceremony.
50 COPIES COMING OUT TO AUSTRALIA.
ARRIVE HERE MONDAY, JUNE 19. You Must Book At Once.
Arrangements have been made by PATHE FEE RES
(Australia) for Special Pictures of all Topical Events.
50 Copies coming of the following Big Events, at Prices which
will Startle the Picture World.
Look Out
For the Coronation Naval Review at Spithead. Battleships.
For the Royal Agricultural Show at Norwich.
For the Horse Show at Olympia. g CQ j ( £ ar jy
For the Naval and Military Tournament.
Fnr thp Rnval Asrnt Magnificent Representations
ror ine noyat Hitoi. of al , these coming
PATHE FRERES
50 Queen Street, Helbourne
73 York Street, Sydney
FOR DRESS FUNCTIONS
Farmer’s Quality Tailoring.
TO know that your Dress Clothes are right, and to feel that indefinable
complaisance which well cut, well finished clothes always give, is'
to be at ease in any company and under any circumstances. We aim
at perfection in each Suit entrusted to our care, and from the selection of
materials to the final touch, it is supervised by one of our expert cutters.
Gentlemen’s Dress Suits, Dinner Jackets, etc.
In Black Venetian Dress Coating, Vicuna Cloth, or File Dress Worsted Coatings.
Dress Suits
Dinner Suits
Dinner Jackets
Dress Vests
Dress Trousers
Prices, £6/6/-, £7/7/-, and £3/8/-
... Prices, 95/-, £5/5/-, £5/15/-, £6/6/-
... Prices, from 57/6
... Price, 17/6 each
Price, 21 per pair
FARMERS, SYDNEY.
'VACMAR
Sheep-branding Fluid
rhat lasfs from shearing
to shearing.
Yer comes ouf completely
m rhe scouring of Itie wo
DOES NOT MAT THE FLEECE
V
Vacuum Oil Company Propry. Ltd.
ThroughouT The Commonweairh
and New Zealand.
h


HAIR PRESERVED
AND BEAUTIFIED
BY USING
Rowland’s
HIAGASSAR OIL.
It prevents baldness, eradicates scurf, is the best
dressing for ladies’ hair and for Children it is invalu-
able. Also in a Golden Colour for fair hair.
Sizes 3 s. 6d., 75., 10s. 6d. Sold by Stores
Chemists, & A. Rowland & Sons, Hatton Garden,
London.
GROUND,
BRISBANE.
HOW
GREAT COMBINATION.
RED INDIANS, COWBOYS AND
SKUTHORPS BUCKJUMPERS.
INDIAN VILLAGE, REDSKIN CHIEFS, MEDICINE
MAN, BRAVES. SQUAWS AND PAPOOSES,
AMERICAN COWBOYS.
SKUTHORP’S GREAT BCCKJUMPING AND ROUGH-
RIDING COMBINATION,
TOMMY BURNS,
The World’s Greatest Bucking Horse.
£5O to anyone who can ride him for five minutes in a
hunting saddle.
WILD LIFE OF AMERICA & AUSTRALIA.
SPECTACULAR. SENSATIONAL, REALISTIC.
ADMISSION—Is.; Grandstand, 25.; Children, Half-price.
Direction : A. A. Amusements, Ltd., and Skuthorp.
The British and Colonial
Aeroplane Company Ltd.
(Head Offices 8 Works: Bristol, Eng.).
Contractors to the
BRITISH AND RUSSIAN ARMIES.
THE PRICE OF A
“Bristol” Biplane
complete with 50-H.P. “ GNOME ”
Engine delivered f.o.b. Bristol is
£lOOO
This price will purchase an exact- reproduction of the
machine which has been so successfully demonstrated
throughout Australia by the Company’s Pilots.
IMMEDIATE DELIVERIES.
For Further Particulars apply
SYDNEY E. SMITH, Manager,
c/o Union Bank, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE.
West Australian Agents—RICHARD
NO PRESERVATIVES.
HOLMES * CO., PEHTH. KALCOOELIE and COOLOARDIE.
Brewert and Offices :
Dowling Street, RJEDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Arrangements have been completed for
bringing off the World’s Sprint in
Sydney. The event will occur either on June 17 or
on July 8, and the distance will be 130 yards.
World's champion J. Donaldson (of Australia), Hol-
way (ex-champion), Taylor and Postle will be the
starters, and the purse will go 45 per cent, to the win-
ner, 30 per cent, to the second, 16 and 10 to third
and fourth respectively. The picture proceeds will
be part of the “gate.” On form the race looks
like a monte for Donaldson.
* * * *
Clarence Weber writes to say that he is
anxious to meet “Snowy” Baker in a contest for the
all-round championship of Australia. The trouble is
that Baker and Weber cannot agree upon a pro-
gramme. Baker wants to include lemon-cutting,
tent-pegging, life-saving, water-polo, cricket, hockey,
etc. Weber maintains that these are pastimes
pure and simple, and he cannot see any athletic
significance in them. If Baker sticks out for them,
Weber will demand the inclusion of tearing packs of
cards, weight-juggling, wood-chopping, sheaf-tossing
and potato-peeling—all exercises in which he is ad-
mittedly high-class. But if Baker will leave out
his fancy list, Weber will agree to include —(1)
running, (2) hurdling, (3) jumping, (4) pole-vault-
ing, (5) putting shot (light and heavy), (6) throw-
ing the hammer (one, two, or three styles), (7)
cycling, (8) walking, (9) swimming, (10) rowing,
(11) strength test, (12) physical development, (13)
boxing, (14) wrestling, (15) tossing the caber. That
little list should satisfy anybody.
* * * *
One Ryugoro Shima has propelled him-
self into the “all in” argument with a challenge for
a bout of jiu-jitsu versus catch-as-catch-can. Shima
says Weber can dictate his own terms and conditions,
may divide the “house” any way he pleases, and may
have any side-wager he likes. And what more can a
man want ?
* * * *
“Bilbax”: The first pug v. wrestler battle
that I saw was in Adelaide, 30 years ago, between
Jack Thomson, a capable boxer, and Maurice Ewans,
the Ballarat wrestling champion. It lasted three or
four rounds. The wrestler had all the worst of it
till he gave his opponent “the flying mare,” and
simultaneously reduced the population of the Holy
City by one.' ' As a test of the respective merits of
the noble art and its rival, this contest was marred
by the fact that both men were • loaded with beer.
Some years later I witnessed a contest between
Harry Dunn, the world’s champion Cumberland
wrestler, and Jack Connors, the catch-as-catch-can
crack, in a private bar of the Messageries (formerly
Mace and Thompson’s) Hotel, Melbourne. Dunn
was something of a boxer, having fought Dick Pet-
tingell for the championship of M.L., and made a
fair showing. Connor was no pug. Dunn got
home two punches before Connor gripped with a two-
armed neck-hold, and butted his cannon-ball head
three times into Dunn’s face. Connor the winner;
and I’ll refrain from anything descriptive of the re-
markable rearrangement made of Dunn’s features.
But, here again, beer was a disturbing factor. Tom
Lees was a clever wrestler as well as, for a time,
Australia’s champion pugilist. He made but a
second-rate show against Peter Jackson when the
darky relieved him of the championship. Yet, in
two go-as-you-please impromptu battles with Jack-
son —one in Sydney, the other in America—he was
having nothing the worst of it when spoil-Sports
pulled them apart. True, most of the fighting was
on the ground, but that’s fair to the wrestler. Beer
had a say in these fights also, but Lees carried most
of it. Bill Curran (son of the old-time champion)
told nic that a talk with Donald Dinnie on this
question led to a frieiidly trial. Curran shot his
clever left. Dinnie evaded and gripped his oppon-
ent’s wrist, and for a minute after stood pivoted
With Curran whirling round him in mid-air, prepara-
tory to a fall that would have served for a lot more
than the necessarv 10 seconds. The trouble in get-
ting at the respective worth of pugilism v. wrestling
as the means of salvation in a fight for life is that
practically all pugs know a good deal about wrestling,
and most wrestlers have some knowledge of boxing.
If a contest could be arranged' in which the wrestler
would be held strictly to wrestling rules, and the
boxer to Queensbury or P.R. rules, I’d bet 2 to 1
on the boxer. That being obviously impossible, the
only alternative seems to be the “all-in” contest,
refereed by a medical man, who will deliver his ver-
dict when he has ascertained that one of the com-
batants is quite dead. In this style, if the wrestler
were also a fairly good boxer, I’d lay a shade of odds
on him.
* * * *
“Jack Kay” : I see an “all-in go” between
Mr. Weber and Mr. Johnson is on the cards. The
latter is willing to weffir the loose jacket, etc., stipu-
lated by C. Weber; but there is still barneying about
other conditions. I propose that the two gentlemen
meet somewhere in the vicinity of Moray-street,
South Melb. Both to wear ordinary street clothes,
bare knuckles, and gpt to it on the unsoft pavement.
The Flying Angels would of course grace the pro-
ceedings with their presence, and in the event of Mr.
Weber winning, perhaps a couple of the “Angels”
could be persuaded to take him on, pickets and ob-
scene language to be permissible. A side-wager of pots
for the crowd would be groatlv appreciated. This
would be a fair-dinkum “all in go,” and about the
only one of the sort I’ve yet heard suggested.
Saturday was a dreary day in Sydney,
with slush under foot and rain in the air. But the
conditions did not prevent 10,000 football fiends
rolling into the sloppy Wentworth Park to see Glebe
smash the hitherto unbeaten Newtown team, by 13
to nil. In spite of the heavy going it was a fast
game, in which the Glebe forward pack simply
smothered opposition. Peter Burge was raging
like the heathen, and led the beefy pack at top
speed from beginning to end. Newtown’s kicking
was shocking, both Russell and Graham missing
easy shots at goal. At the Sports Ground 3000
fanatics watched Eastern Suburbs and Balmain kick
up the slush. Balmain played the better game, but
East had the luck and won by 16 to 11. Craig, in
the pack, and Frazer at full-back, starred for Bal-
main, while Messenger displayed his glory for East.
Two all was the result of a match at North Sydney,
in which Annandale tackled the local team. The
ground was like a skating-rink, and the play Of the
two full-backs was the only feature of the match.
Western Suburbs, whose defeat of North Sydney ap-
pears to have stirred it up, went close to surprising
THE WHITE MAN’S BURDEN.
BOXER V. WRESTLER.
JACK JOHNSON AND CLARENCE WEBER
WILLING TO MEET.
—Daily Paper Headings.
J. JOHNSON: “ Who said chicken?”
itself and all Israel by all-but defeating the formid-
able South Sydney crowd. At half-time the scores
were five all, and it was not till the second half was
far spent that South managed to squeeze ahead,
winning by 13 to eight.
Playing on Moore Park, under Australian
rules, Newtown totted up a level hundred against
Sydney Training College, who managed to rake in
30 odd points. ' Y.M.C.A. again got loose, this time
on Rushcutters’ Bay Oval, and slaughtered Padding-
ton —79 to 18. East Sydney fell on North Sydney,
at the Northerners’ No. 2 Oval, and bashed up 57
against 44. The Sydney-South Sydney flare-up hap-
pened on Moore Park, the Sydneyites proving alto-
gether too good for the Souths, whom they dished
by 96 to 21. In this competition Y.M.C.A.,
Sydney, and,East Sydney have not yet lost a.match,
and are worth 16 points apiece. Newtown is close
behind with 12, Paddington a long way in the rear
with four, while North Shore, South Sydney and
the Training College have yet to get their faces
out of the mud and chalk up a win. #
Saturday was Newtown’s evil day, for
while the Glebe crowd was pulverising its League
team, University was dragging its Union crowd
through the slush at University - Oval, winning by 13
points to six. This was the first defeat of the New-
town Union team also, itt Epping, where the white
elephant grows, Western Suburbs fastened on to Bal-
main, and notched 17 to nil. At Erskineville St.
George tackled the dragon from South Sydney, and
scotched it by 15 to three. Manly and North Sydney
had a very even tussle, out of which Manly emerged
with six to three. A knowledge of surfing was of
great assistance to the Manlyites. Eastern Suburbs
went for Glebe at Sydney, Cricket Ground, and
floated home by 14 to nine. ■ .
The defeat of Newtown by Glebe puts South
Sydney on top of the League competition with nine
points; Glebe comes next with eight. Then the
procession runs: Newtown seven, East Sub. six, and
Annandale five. Balmain has distinguished itselt
by failing to win a match, and is perambulating at
tiie rear in a helpless way.
In the Union Competition University
leads with eight points, chased closely by Western
Suburbs with seven. Newtown and Eastern Suburbs
run next with six apiece; then Manly and Balmain,
five and four respectively; Glebe and St. George,
two each; and North Sydney and South Sydney, with
not a solitary match, 0.
The chief titbit provided for Melbourne’s
football followers on Saturday was the South-Col-
lingwood encounter. Two successive defeats had im-
pressed on the premiers the need for taking all the
chances they could get and giving none, and in the
first half-hour they acquired 19 points to South's
nine. Thence out, it was a hard-fought, strenuous
and willing battle; but the Magpies kept a lead and
won by 40 points to 34. Geelong held its own
against ’Roy most of the afternoon ; but at the tail
end of a vigorous, though unscientific scuffle, the
seasiders faded away, and ’Roy won by 65 to Sleepy
Hollow’s 32. Richmond’s supporters returned from
Carlton, sour and disgusted, with an 89 point to 39
walloping to chew over. The Essendon-’Varsity argu-
ment might have proved interesting had not three
of the Students’ best men been away in Adelaide;
as it was, they made a moderate attempt to save
appearances —’Varsity, 42 points; ’Dons, 86. The
new State Excellency, with Lady 1 uller and six
little Fullers, shed the light of their countenances
on the Melb.-St. Kilda scramble, and appeared to
be pleased therewith, which is understandable at
present. When Fuller knows more, he won’t waste
afternoons on games like that. Melb. won by 69
to 31. # t
The liveliest Ass. disturbance was between
’Pran and North—an even, orderly struggle, ending m
the outing of the Two Blues by two points only—
-65 to North’s 67. The unbeaten Essendon played
Brighton, and led easily in the first half ; but after
the interval the constituents of the late T. Bent
bogged in to such purpose that the ’Dons lost the
run of things, and only just staved off defeat 46
to Brighton's 41. The rising Port team voyaged to
Williamstown, returning later with a 75 point to
44 victory in their bag. Those two hopeless dis-
organisations, Preston and Northcote, duly suc-
cumbed to ’Scray and Brunswick respectively—
-137 to 47 and 64 to 38. #
Through the week the conference between
Ass. and League resulted in recommendations that
—(1) they should amalgamate and form a Board of
control, to consist of six delegates from each, three
to retire annually; (2) that each senior club should
subsidise a junior team, from which it should draw
its players; and (3) that the various club secre-
taries should confer frequently and earnestly. The
Ass. promptly accepted these proposals, but the
League postponed the question for consideration.
There seem to be some ideal Fat Landlords among
these League delegates. The League also rejected
the invitation of the ’Roy delegate to limit the
weekly amount paid to players to 305., one repre-
sentative cheerfully assuring the mover that they
“would bluff him in the matter of paying players,
as they did before the amateur rule was rescinded.”
Which was doubtless a most trustworthy statement,
and bears out this writer’s contention that profes-
sionalism means the slaying of the poorer clubs by
the richer. Nothing but a strictly administered
scheme of district football will give these weaker
ones a chance, and it wouldn’t be too rosy even then.
* * * *
N.S.W. Rugby League’s determination to
biff the savages whiffed away in smoke when seven
plavers were brought up to the penitent form last
week. Only in one case was anything like justice meted
out, and that heathen only got a mere month’s rest
for “indiscriminate kicking.” The others were “se-
verely cautioned,” “cautioned” and “censured.”
* * * *
As' a variant on the eternal squabbles be-
tween ’oofball players and club officials, the Umpires’
Ass. of Broken Hill has now got talking, and has
notified the local ass. that, if fees aren’t increased
from 305., 10s. and ss. for central, boundary and
goal umpires to 405., 205., and 15s. respectively, it
will strike. The-er-employers have offered half the
increase demanded; but the umpires, being all good
unionists, have rejected it, and at present there is
every appearance of the games having to be played
without umpires from the first of this month. In
which case those games will be worth watching.
* * * *
Although only four rounds of the Svdney
lacrosse premiership have been decided, a long tail
already begins to obtrude. Petersham is alone at
the head, and Saturday’s great upsetting of Sydney
(which had shared leading honors), by 12 goals to
six, gives an impression of the possible result of the
premiership.
* * * *
Fogwell, of Richmond River (N.S.W.), is
off to England on Saturday to tackle Ernest Barry
for the championship of England on the Thames. The
match was arranged by sportsman Siefert, of Maori-
land, who financed Fogwell when he pulled off the
Maoriland championship recently. Fogwell has
been pacemaker for Dick Arnst in his training; and
if the advance agent defeats Barry, Arnst shouldn’t
have much difficulty in collecting that alleged £750
offered for a match with him.
* * * *
A curious feature of the Arnst-Pearce
match is the absence of sanguine confidence on the
part of Arnst. Lately he is reported to have said
that he still fancies he has a chance of retaining the
title. Which has airing of despair about it.
The sculling match between Frank Hagney
and Alf Felton, for £5O, eventuates next Saturday
on the Parramatta, and is considered very open in-
deed. The race is to be pulled over the full cham-
pionship course, and should prove interesting.
Felton is only 21, and has of late been busy raking
in the prize-money floating about the Northern
Rivers of N.S.W., and as he also landed the large
end of the swag in a handicap at Foxton (M.L.)
some 12 months ago, there should be possibilities in
front of him. * * *
Kid McCoy, featherweight, scored another
plume for his bonnet at Melbourne Athletic Club’s
room the other evening, when he met Frank Thorn
for the second time. Frank Thorn is not one of the
best, but he is never far behind, and always takes a
lot of beating. Thorn was 9st. 41b. and McCoy
9st. 441 b., and the lads were just well enough
matched to provide the kind of fight that comes
along once in a blue moon. They might have been
in clutches a little less, but there were lashings of
fight, and both went the pace the whole distance.
Hundreds of punches were planted, but no bruises
or contusions bloomed, and when the crowd had had
full and plenty, referee Jack McGowan said McCoy
had won by a nose. It was a correct verdict, quite
in accordance with the evidence. Sam Grey’s young-
ster now threatens the top-notch feather, and will
certainly ruffle his plumage when they meet.
* * * *
Yet another yelp from Dollar Land. One
Tony Biddle, billed as America’s millionaire amateur
boxer, lets loose and says that the stoush artist is
scorned too much by the community at large; all of
which he proposes to abolish by making it compul-
sory for scrap patrons to wear evening-dress. _ Hats
off to Tony! The originality of the notion is
prime. But besides nutting Billo Rabbits and Micko
Bottles in their evening togs, why not go the whole
hog, and hand the ladies free invitations? A room
might also be allotted to the use of the , ’
who could come along so that Ma might di
between rounds and see that baby was all rignt.
The latest about pug Johnson is that he
is broke —stone-broke. This, it is given out, is ' .
he is selling his string of motors, a ? < ~ j
yarn about going to the Coronation in dial F?
tiaras, etc., is now said to be mere guff. As Jon-
son states there is plenty more money where wnat
he has blewed came from, he will probably snap
up the £5OOO offer of the Melnstoush to quell tne
winner of the McVea-Langford disturbance which will
rage in September. *
Sydney Agricultural Society will
out into a Motor Show in October. Alread> 20
firms have notified their intention of taking part.
The society hopes to make it an annual affair, which
will shed much radiance on the right kind of car to
buy for any particular purpose. Thus the brand or
breed that is indispensable if a man’s chauffeur has
the privilege of taking young ladies on giddy joy-
rides is quite unnecessary if one intends to merely
take the family out, and potter round in a humdrum
way. An annual show will make this and other
tangled problems clear. # #
Against the automobile the horse still
holds his end up fairly well in Australia, but in the
Cold Land he is fading out fast. In all Australia
there are some 10,000 motor vehicles of ail kinds ,
in London one can see that number in a morning;
and Paris is becoming horseless with still greater
swiftness. In London the taxi-cabs alone number
6280, and another co. has just been formed, with a
capital of a million, to flood London with a fleet of
taxis of a new and said-to-be improved design. And
on top of all these there are the innumerable private
cars, and the fleets of vehicles run by the big carrying
cos. Roughly, there are to-day only about one-taird
as many horses in London as there were two years
ago. Good-bye, gee-gee!
W. F. Pattison put up a good afternoon’s
work at the Sydney ’Varsity charnp’onship meeting
last week, gathering in the 100yds., 440yds. and
880yds. events. Thereby he affixed to his belt the
much-sought-after athletic championship of the ’Var-
sity’ *
The M.C.C. had a high time at bowls in
Melbourne this season, gathering in the four rink
club championship, the three rink pennants, and the
“B” and “C” rink championships; in fact, the
crumbs which missed the rich club’s table would
scarcely keep a canary’s body and soul together.
* * * *
The N.S.W. Bowling Association execu-
tive is still out, and refuses to go back again till its
policy is adopted by the members. The executive
proposes to levy a 25.-per-annuin tax on all mem-
bers, with which to pay a good secretary £2OO per
annum. So far, the majority of the few who
have rolled up to discuss the question has been
hostile. Some of the malcontents propose that the
clubs should be taxed to provide the money, but it
is pointed out that such a course would press heavily
on the small clubs. Under the per capita arrange-
ment, each man will pay his humble florin and won t
miss it, and everything will proceed smoothly. The
Lord onlv knows why anybody is making any fuss
about it.' Looks as though the Association is split-
ting up into cliques, which have the knife into each
other. #
The Paris-to-Madrid aeroplane race lias
been won by Vedrines, the Frenchman. It took him
738 minutes to traverse 737 miles. When nearing
the end of the journey the strain began to tell, and
the man became half-stupefied. While crossing the
Pyrenees (he reached a height of 6600 ft. at this
point) he was attacked by an eagle, but managed to
shake the bird off by descending and rising sudden-
ly. This is the second aeroplanist to be attacked
by an eagle within the week. The other man carried
a revolver and blew daylight through the bird just
as it closed in to do mischief.
The defeat of Wilding by C. P. Dixon in
the Surrey lawn tennis championship has something
of the writing on the wall about it. The English-
man won by 22 games to 12, and as he is one of
the English' players chosen to battle for the Davis
Oup, and Wilding would have been one of the de-
fenders, perhaps it was just as well that little
arrangement fell through.
For the past two weeks Sydney Sun has
been reiterating that it_ is importing Vardon, the
English golfing crack; and daring all that time the
rest of the Sydney papers have been asserting that
the leading clubs are combining to bring the cham-
pion here: Out of the ashes Of a controversy
which ought to be burnt out, if it isn’t, rises
Phoenix-like the bald fact that Vardon is coming.
He has been described as “the Trumper of golf,” the
“brightest player that the game has produced.”
Next we shall hear of “the most sparkling under-
taker in Christendom.”
* * * *
The Vic. Amateur Athletic Ass. has an
idea that amateur cycle racing would boom if given
a start; and as a new three-lap asphalt track is
being laid down at the Amateur Sports Ground
(late Friendly Societies’ Gardens), it has asked the
L.V.W. to define the status of the Melbourne Ama-
teur Wheelers, with a view to starting a real ama-
teur cycle-racing body, and holding track and road
races.
* * * *
Club-swinger Tom Burrows pursued the
even tenor of his foolishness, last week, by swinging
the wood for 76hrs. lOmin. at Grafton (N.S.W.).
This annihilated all previous efforts. About half-
way through the need of sleep nearly outed Bur-
rows ; but the committee lent a hand by singing so
horribly that Sleep fled in terror.
* * * *
The yearling colt by Sylvanite, lately
bought in Sydney for J. McCann, of Adelaide, has
had a short career. The first time they tried to
get a saddle on him in his new home, he played up,
slipped, broke a leg, and had to be destroyed.
GOLFING CHANTEY.
[FOR THE BULLEITN.]
A Sunday or two ago the writer saw a large party
of golfers making for one of the links, followed by
a retinue of 30 boys, who were to act as their cad-
dies. The boys would probably earn two or three
shillings apiece, and would be away from Sunday-
school and church all day. What a training for
their future life! —Horrid News Item.
Thirty boys in their Sunday best —
Yeo-ho 0! and a bundle o’ clubs I
Seeking the links at the Devil’s behest —
Yeo-ho O! and a bundle o’ clubs!
Thirty lads for the Golf-links bound—
Yeo-ho 0! and some money to burn!
Willing to walk some miles of ground—
Yeo-ho 0 t and some money to earn !
Fast they fleet where the white balls roll —-
Yeo-ho 0! and the language they hear!
Golf will “foozle” each youthful SOul —-
Yeo-ho 0! and the language they hear!
Blue is the sea* and brown the shore —
Yeo-ho 0! and right merry’s the day!
Hark to the horrible cry of “Fore!”—
Yeo-ho O! let’s get out of the way!
Clang of bells sounds everywhere—
Yeo-ho 01 and the Wowsers complain!
Brothers, the Old ’Un is busy there —
Yeo-ho 0 ! and the Wowsers complain !
Why are sueh godless things allowed?
Yeo-ho 0! and yet nobody cares!
Not a Collect among the crowd !
Yeo-ho 0! and yet nobody cares!
’Tis good-bye to the grand old rule —
Yeo-ho 0 ! and the Thrippenny Bit!
Plenty of church and Sunday-school—
Yeo-ho 0! and the Thrippenny Bit!
“What a training for future life!”
Yeo-ho 0! and the churches are wild !
Men are weary of wordy strife —
Yeo-ho 0 ! and the churches are wild!
We shall be dead a long, long time —
Yeo-ho 0! that’s a Positive Fact !
So we drink the Sunshine while church bells
chime —
Yeo-ho 0 1 ’tis a rational act I
Vainly the Wowser smites his chest —
Yeo-ho 0 ! let him cackle of Doom!
Golf and God’s sunshine still suit us best—
Yeo-ho 0! and the Devil take Gloom!
N.s.w.
O. C. CABOT.


THE
LOOK FOR NAME IN SHOE.
mmmm
you insist that your clothing he of the latest cut
**■ and shade. Why not be equally particular about
your shoes ? Shoe styles change from season
to season. “ Marshall Style Book will
keep you posted as to the correct
ones.
Marshall foot moulded lasts
enable us to fit your feet as
perfectly as your cus-
tom-maker can
better, in fact, for
we follow Na-
ture s own lines.
The saving in
price is also
worth con
sider-
ing.
ĥ
21/-
Style
No. B 1518
Dango Tat. Celt
lllucher Oxford.
Tlie Bogo Bact.
Send for Style Book.
Stocked by Anthony Hordern & Sons,
S\dney, atid most other Good Dealers.
Inquire of yours.
240
MARSHALL SHOE CO.,
RICHMOND, VIC.
ANOTHER STYLE NEXT WEEK
GUARANTEED 2 YEARS.
20-30 h.p. Chalmers
£,490
s=Seater
Touring Car.
40-h.p. THOMAS,
6«Cylinder 7-Seater.
ROY W. SAND FORD,
181 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Also at 105 EXHIBITION STREET, MELBOURNE.
Make^
your
own
Cigarette
It is
twice
as good
CIGARETTE
PAPER
BBST axvd VBBBST
IF NOT PROCURABLE AT YOUR
TOBACCONIST APPLY TO THE AGENTS
Jacobs Bros, li* 255“ George S* Sydney
a. *
Zaw Points
/nventorj
Can I Obtain a Patent ?
The quickest, wav to ascertain this,
WITHOUT EXPENSE, is to write
to me describing' your invention, enclosing a small sketch
where necessary. Nicety of drawing is not essential ;
all that is necessary at first is to give me YOUR IDEA.
I will at once inform you whether the idea is patent-
able, and, if so, give the necessary instructions for
further procedure.
Persons desirous of obtaining really reliable advice or
information regarding Patent matters are cordially in-
vited to consult me personally or by letter. In all cases
a careful consideration of their plans, an honest opinion,
and a prompt reply may be expected.
A. J. CALLINAN, Patent Attorney,
Citizens’ Buildings, Collins Street, Melbourne.
/
o
HtLl
The product of
tjne source only
More miles on 11 Shell" than
ou any other.
Its perfect purity Jhat's
the point'
The Rigney Shoes for Men!
IT is gratifying to us to know that the tremendous
business we have built up is due to the fact that our
Customers appreciate the “ Superiority of our Shoes,”
“The Newest of our Styles," and “Our Square Deal
Policy.”
The Shoe illustrated is a Choice Tan Russian Calf
Oxford Shoe, Back Counter, Circular Vamp, Per-
forations, Pine Stitched Welts, 23/6, 25/“ Also
Dark Tan Willow Calf Shoe, 18/6. In Lace
Boots, ditto. Also Black, 21/-, 25/>
Postage 9d. extra.
Send us your name and address
for a copy of our New Catalogue.
1
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.
“The Men’s Exclusive
High-Grade Shoe Stores,”
305 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY ; and 179 a PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Please note that the new shop in Pitt Street is under the personal management of Mr. F. 0. Rigney, who
is the sole and only proprietor of the above firm.
Old
OW<N£y
ft
SCO
OLD ORKNEY
Real LiqueurWhisky
w
•J
4®
AGENTS:
SYDNEY-Tooheys, Ltd.
MELBOURNE —T. R. Jones & Co.
BRISBANE—EIIiott. Donaldson
& Douglas, Ltd.
ADELAIDE—Lord & Mine. ,
HOBART—John Ferguson & Co.’
LAUNGESTON —Jonn McKenzie & Co.
THE WHISKY
FOR THE HOME
Built for Australian Conditions.
The “B. & B.” Motor Cycle ig a medium-weight machine. It is heavier than the
ordinary light-weight 901 b. or 1001 b. Cycle, but not as heavy as the usual type
designed for hard service. '
Instead of being stayed with bulky trusses, it is scientifically designed to give the
greatest strength with the minimum metal. The engine is a 2£-h.p. J.A.P.,
which, owing to the light-weight construction of the frame, is more effective than many higher-
powered Cycles.
Call and see one. The price is but JESS, and the machine is worth every penny of it.
ħ
Bennett & Barkell, Ltd.
Largest Cyole Building House in the State,
234 Pitt Street, and Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
Don’t Trust Your Eye;
Get Guaranteed Accuracy!!
/"■
h
IT’S too risky to attempt to lay out a drain, plan a channel, or
find the height of a spring with the eye only. No doubt if
the “man on the land” owned a surveyor’s transit, these
matters would be easy ; but the price of same is prohibitive.
Here’s the remedy. Levelling 1 Instrument and Transit
998 saves guessing, and gives the truth. The price, 80/-, complete with extension legs, is
but a fraction of that charged for a surveyor’s instrument. Simple to use, and full
instructions with every instrument. Also
99F, with Telescope Extension Legs, ground and graduated
level glass. £7/10/- Levelling Instrument only, 46/-
Full particulars in our 258-page Catalogue, showing over 2000 Tools.
Write for a copy. It’s Post Free!
Thomas McPherson & Son,
582-588 Collins St.
MELBOURNE.
THE “MOTA”
( Regd.).
m
The “ MOTA ” HAT is conceded everywhere to
be the standard in style, quality and workmanship.
It is easily the most comfortable of hats, and
equally suitable for town or country wear, for
busines- or holidays, for walking-, driving or riding,
for week days or Sundays, for wet days orfine days,
for warm weather or cold weather.
The “ MOTA ” is THE hat that suits every head
and every occasion. Stocked by leading houses
throughout Australia, in all fashionable colors.
PRICES, 7/6 to 12/6.
If unobtainable in your district, write us direct.
THE AUSTRAL HAT MILLS, LIMITED,
ABBOTSFORD, MELBOURNE.
Millars’ Karri 8 Jarrah
Co. (1902), Ltd.
Wb Supply—
JARRAH Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’ Scant-
ling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
72 BISHOPSGATE STREET WITHIN,
LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
63A PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
LETTERS COPIED
WHILE WRITING
By Using Your Own Letter
Paper, Invoices,
eto., WITH THE
N SC/ 200
PATtNT ZANETIC
COPYING &OOK^
&
You simply insert
your writing papgr ...
in the holder and write. Whereupon you secure by
the act of writing- a perfect letter and a perfect oopy
(wliiMi remains in the book). There is no sign of
copying 01 perforated edge.
Sample of the Celebrated Zanetic Paper which
produces this result: free from
S.B. ZANETIC WORKS, Welford
Road, Leicester, England.
If stamped addressed envelope enclosed, one com-
plete NSC/100 Copying 200 full size lOin. x Bin.
letters, for 3/6 post free ; or Copying 400, 5/-.
WHOLESALE AGENTS WANTED.
ĥ
Satisfactory
Lighting
With a BRANDT’S
ATMOSLITE. A
lighting machine ab-
solutely automatic,
safe, always ready,
efficient and cheap
to maintain. Results
guaranteed. Tested
under local' ren-
ditions. Write to-day
for full particulars.
„ f.
Brandt Bros., Ltd.,
LAMPHOUSE,
236 Pitt St., Sydney.
Elizabeth St, Melbourne


JEWELLERY SELECTIONS «A. SAUNDERS
DAINTIER-MORE EXCLUSIVE-AND CHEAPER THAN THOSE FOUND ELSEWHERE.
A. SAUNDERS.
loot Gold BRACELET, set diamonds and rubies, or
Sapphires, £B/10/-
Diamonds and Olivines, £lO.
All Diamonds, £l2/10.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold Heart BROOCH,
cut Diamonds and Rubies, o
£B/10/.
pure double
r Sapphires,
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold BROOCH, pure diamonds,
Pearls and Rubies, or Sapphires,
£6/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold 2-Bar Pearl Set
Brooch,
17/6-
Spray
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold LINKS, set
pure Diamonds,
£3/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold PEN-
DANT, set 38 fine
pure double-cut Dia-
monds,
£35-
THOUSANDS
OF OTHER
IDEAS IN
OUR FREE
CATALOGUE.
SEND FOR
A COPY.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold EAR-
RINGS, set fine
Tourmalines,
£2/10/.
£6/10/-
£7/10/
V'
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ 18ct Solid Gold
Half Hunting Keyless
WATCH, J-plate, Expansion
Balance, £6/10/- Extra
quality £7/10/. Guaranteed
Free Repairs 4 and 5 years.
OUR FREE
CATALOGUE
IS FULL
OF OTHER
GIFT
SUGGESTIONS.
WELL WORTH
SEEING.
A. SAUNDK^a.
Sold Gold
EARRINGS, set
Pearls and Tur-
quoise drop,
25/.
_ A. SAUNDERS.
Isct Gold NECKLACE, set
3 fine, pure, white, double
cut Diamonds,
£3O
WE PAY
POSTAGE.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold Dia-
mond, 2 Cluster,
£7/10/.
Larger diamonds,
£lO.
WE PAY
POSTAGE.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold RING,
set five pure
double-cut Dia-
monds,
£l2/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold BRACELET Expanding, WATCH f-plate,
Lever Movement. Full Jewelled, .Perfectly Timed,
and adjusted,
-£lO-
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct Gold LINKS,
17/6-
15ct. 27/6. Initials en-
graved 1/6 extra.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold CRESCENT BROOCH,
Pure Double-cut Diamonds and
Rubies, or Sapnhires and Whole
Pearl,
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold Combina-
tion Brooch PENDANT,
set Pure White Double-cut
Diamonds,
-£4O-
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct Gold BROOCH, set Pearls and
Red or Blue stones,
12/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Music BROOCH, Dearest,
12/6-
Set with pearls, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Half Curb MUFF-CHAIN,
pretty and neat, £2/10/-
£3, £3/10/, £4/10/. 15ct Gold,
£4/10/, £5, £5/10/, £6/15/,
£ 7//10.
A.. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Juvenile Band BRACELET,
any name engraved, 15/.
A. SAUNDERS.
loct Gold Crescent and Star BROOCH.
Five Pure Double-cut Diamonds,
-£lO-
A. SAUNDERS.
Back COMB, 9et Gold, Scroll Mount,
15/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9et Gold 2-Bar BROOCH, Amethyst centre,
25/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9et Gold Half-round Plain BRACELET, strong safety
chain attached, 30/. 15ct. Gold, £2/15/.
ħ
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold,
Pearls and Gar-
net, or Peridot,
12/6-
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold, set
red, blue, or
green stone,
20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, pure
Double-out Dia-
mond.
h
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold 2-heart
RING, set pure
double-cut dia-
monds,
£l7/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ot Gold Dia-
monds and Ruby,
or Sapphire,
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold, half-
chased Curb
BRACELET,
£3-
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, set
4 Diamonds and
Red or Blue
stones,
£2.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Com-
pass PENDANT,
15/-
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Forget-
me-Not Spray
CHARM,
7/6-
Gent.’s High-f
WATCH, full C
dust and water
Higher Grade,
rrade Solid i Silver Hunting Keyless
Ihronometer Balance, extra jewelled,
proof cases, perfectly accurate and
reliable,
£2-
£2/10/. Guaranteed free repairs for
Two Years.
WE PAY
POSTAGE.
£2.
HIGHER
GRADE,
£2/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold RING,
Bet Diamond and
Rubies, or Sap-
phires,
25/.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, Dia-
monds and Eme-
rald Cluster
RING,
£7/10-
A. SAUNDERS.
Silver HATPIN,
strong steel
Stem,
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold WATCH-BOX, £3-
Other sizes, £3/10/, £l>
Plain if desired.
£4/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold PENDANT,
set fine Pearls and
Amethyst,
22/G
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold BROOCH, set fine quality
Opal,
£2/10/-
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold BROOCH, set five pure white
Double-cut Diamonds,
£2O-
- and Rubies or Sapphires, £l2/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Leaf
CHARM,
5/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Half-chased Bamboo BRACELET, safet}
chain attached,
£2/5/-
9et Gold Sig-
net RING, 22/<>.
Initials en-
graved free of
charsre.
15ct. Gold, 40/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold Engraved
TIE CLIF, 10/3.
Plain, 10/.
Silver 2/6. Chased 3/.
A. SAUNDERS. , . .. . .
9ct Gold, Fancy Basket Pattern BRACELET, strong safety chain attached,
£3/1 O/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold Spray BROOCH, Pearls
and Turquoise,
£2/10/
A. SAUNDERS.
<>ct Gold Band
RING, set red
or blue stone.
in/«.
JEWELLER.
UtfCHsC IOCK
Ik MAKER A
J
SAUNDERs
SYDNEY'S LEADING JEWELLER.
807. 809.811. 813.815.817. GEORGE ST. (Opposite Railway Srahon) SYDNEY. N.S.W,
SILVERSMITH
t0 HSULT//y c i


ZEISS
FIELD GLASSES
WITH ENHANCES STEREOSCOPIC EFFECT.
ARMY.
MARINE.
TRAVEL.
SPORT.
STALKING.
ĥ
Features:
Brilliant
Definition.
Extensive Field.
Great Light
Intensity.
Mechanical
Precision.
Stability.
Tropic Proof.
With
separate eyepiece
focussing.
X 8 £8 15 0
NEW MODELS
OF ALL
OPTICIANS AT
AUSTRALASIAN
PRICES.
With
central focussing
mechanism.
X 6 0 0
X 8 15 0
i
WL
JA.Y
Fib
&
<SV
£^rinkas^
UNSHRINKABLE
UNDERWEAR
The extreme comfort of JAY Underwear is ensuring for
it an ever=increasing sale in ail parts of the world. It is
durable, economical, and guaranteed against shrinking.
Made of the Finest Australian Wool
All the wearing parts are strengthened by patented
improvements, and there are no irritating seams. Made
in all weights and sizes for men, women and children.
SOLD BY ALL HOSIERS AND OUTFITTERS.
Wholesale only: I. & R. MORLEY and GEO. BRETTLE & CO., London, England.
N.B. —The genuine JAY UNDERWEAR bears the above Trade Mark.
ħ
Turn
"Wi This
Button.
Pen
fills
Itself.
THE . . .
“MODERN”
AUTOMATIC
SELF-FILLINO
FOUNTAIN
PEN
IS not to he confused with
tiie ordinary fountain
pen. There are no joints
to leak, and you simply have
to twist end, hold pen in
ink, untwist, and the pen is
filled. This pen was de-
signed to meet all require-
ments of the most critical
writer, being made in all
style holders and points.
The soft rubber reservoir
which contains the ink is
guaranteed for five years. It
has met with great success in
both America and Europe.
We are making attractive
propositions to dealers carry-
ing oitr line. We also manu-
facture a complete line of
standard and safety foun-
tain pens.
Address:
Modern Pen Company,
Sole Selling Agent for
A. A. Waterman & Co.,
NEW YORK. ■'
22 THAMES STREET,
NEW YORK, U S A.
If it isn't an A.A. it isn’t a
“ MODERN.”
[2
For YOU and ME
There is Nothing to Equal
Solomon
Solution
Its Soothing, Healing Powers have been
proved beyond a shadow of doubt.
Rheumatic Gout, Sciatica, Rheumatism,
Neuralgia, Sprains, Strains, etc,, all yield
to its irresistible potency. One jar will
convince you !
2/6 Jars obtainable from your Chemist or Store-
keepers; post free for 3/- from
SOLOMON COX & SON
439 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
MILLERS
<53
OSTRICH TIPS
From South Africa.
Black, White, Cream,
Natural, or Black Tipped
with White.
5/-
Length, 12 Inches.
POST FREE.
The Feathers we offer you
cannot be bought for twice the
money in any other house.
Send Postal Notes or Money
Order payable to John Miller.
Illustrated Price List Free.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY; also at
Corner of Bourke and Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention The Bulletin.] [4
•‘LINSEED COMPOUND” for Coughs and
Colds. Loosens phlegm. Allays irritation.
REDUCTION
of
From 5 to lO °,
in the
PRICES or
IC
TYRES
Send at once for latest Price List.
9a
STOCKISTS :
ALL THE LEADING GARAGES
WARNING.—Don’t buy Michelin Tyres at less than
current prices. They may be of old manufacture.
Purchase only from our Agents.
THE LOME HANP
THE AUSTRALIAN MAGAZINE,
monthly guide for everything Australian
6cl
0. ■ l


The London Bank of Australia Limited.
Authorised Capital
Subscribed Capital
Paid-up
Uncalled, including Reserve Liability
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits ..
£2,586,067 10 0
1,270,747 10 0
548,152 10 0
728,595 0 0
140,387 19 3
BOARD OF DIRECTORS.
DAVID FINLAYSON, Esq., Chairman. 0 n
GORDON HUNTLEY CAMPBELL, Esq. The Right “on. ILKEOTON, P.G.
ANDREW CUNNINGHAM, Esq. V llIlD ’ i Q '
DAVID QUIXANO HENRIQUES, Esq. GEORGE SLADE, Esq.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT.
Presented at the Ordinary General Meeting of Proprietors, held at Winchester Hoitse, Old
Broad Street, E.C. (Hall No. 174), at 12 O’Clock Noon on Wednesday, 3rd May, 19H.
The Directors present their Report, accompanied as usual by Audited Accounts, loi
the year ended 31st December last. , , ,
The Profits as shown by the annual Statement of 1 rofits, after deducting
management charges and all taxes, including the recently-imposec
Australian Commonwealth land tax and State Government land taxes, g
amount to .. .. •• •• •• . " ” ” oi’(i«o 4 1
To which is added the amount brought forward . . • • • • • • • °
After providing for interest at 44 per cent, on the transferable deposit
receipts for the year, amounting to
There remains a balance to be dealt with of
Which the Directors recommend be appropriated as follows:
Dividend of 54 per cent, on the preference shares tor the
year ended 31st December, 1910 . . • • • • ■ • 19,40 b o
Additional Dividend of 14 per cent, for the same period,
making 7 per cent, for the year, in terms ot the Bank s
Articles of Association .. • • •• •• •• u
Dividend of 5 per cent, on the ordinary shares tor the
same period .. • • • • ••, , • v • 1S >
Amount to be set aside in terms of the Bank s Articles ot •
Association • ■ • • ■ • * * * * qa’ivwi h
Transfer to Reserve Fund .. ’’l’ ,
Bonus of 10 per cent, to the Staff °’ UUU u
£121,289 18 4
30,901 19 1
£90,387 19 3
68.015 13 6
TOO OT9 Pi <)
Thp hnlance carried forward to next account .. •• • • •• 7, >° 4 . . .
The favorable conditions referred to in the last report continue, and the outloot is
p romismg; co r danc e th@ Articles of Association, the Directors propose to make the
additional payment of 14 per cent, to the preference shareholders as the first of the Ine
JeaHy payments required to discharge their preferential rights to dividends and to carry
the balance of divisible surplus profits, amounting to the sum of £-5 <8 19s. to a special
,U “ i Dor?ng'rtM year branches have been opened at East Raleigh and Taree in New South
'' rft *The'Direcibr 0 retiring vmder The'provisions of the Bank's Articles of Association is
Mr David Finlayson, who, being eligible, offers himself for re-election. „
The Bank’s auditors, Messrs. Price, Waterhouse and Co., retire, and again o er
them Thrwa f rrants el f e o C r t dWidends, less income tax, will be issued, payable on and after the
sth May next, to those shareholders whose names appear on the register on the 18t
mstant ‘ By order of the Board,
W. H. BARBER, London Manager and Secretary.
71 Old Broad Street. E.C., London, 18th April, 1911.
BALANCE-SHEET, 31st DECEMBER, 1910.
LIABILITIES.
Authorised Capital—
-61,603 ordinary
shares of £22
10s. each .. £ 1,386,06 1
150,000 prefer-
ence , shares of
£lO each . . 1,500,000
10
0
0
0
£2,886,067 10 0
Subscribed Capital—
-49,103 ordinary
shares of £22
10s. each,
£ 1,1 0 4,8 1 7
10s.; Less
Uncalled and
reserve liabil-
ity, £736,545 ;
calls in arrear,
£240—£736,-
785 — £368,032
10s.; Add —
Amount pre-
paid by trus-
trees in re-
spect of un-
called capital
and reserve lia-
bility, £Bl9O
£3 7 6,2 2 2
10s.; 17,193
preference
shares of £lO
each, fully
paid, £171,930
—Capital paid
up
Reserve Fund
Balance of undi-
vided profit
Transferable deposit receipts, due
1917 .. . . . . • • 608,444 4 8
Other deposits and current ac-
counts . . . 4,301,476 18 2
Bills payable and other liabilities
(including reserves for doubtful
debts) 838,074 15 11
Notes in circulation (secured as
per contra) .. .. • • 171,873 0 0
£548,152 10 0
50,000 0 0
90,387 19 3
£6,608,409 8 0
ASSETS.
Coin, bullion,
cash balances,
and notes of
other banks £1,008,420 10 5
Money at call
and short no-
tice in Lon-
don . . 65,000 0 0
Investments and
bills receiv-
able on hand
and in tran-
sit -. 1,065,200 17 9
Investments held
b y ■ trustees
against notes
in circulation 140,028 7 7
£2,278,649 15 9
Bills discounted, advances and
other assets of the bank .. 3,943,855 4 9
Bank premises .. . • • • 385,904 7 6
£6,608,409 8 0
STATEMENT OF PROFITS FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1910.
Balance of undivided profits as per last report •• •• •• •• £64,537 19
Less: —Dividend for the year ended 31st December, 1909—-
On preference shares .. .. • • • • • • *9,456 6 0
On ordinary shares . . .. • • • • • • 1°»401 6
Transfer to Reserve Fund .. . • • • • • 15,000 O t)
Profits in London and in Australia after providing for ;,n-
-terest due and accrued on current deposits, deducting
rebate on bills, and making provision for bad and
doubtful debts .. .. •• •• . .±191,801
Less: —Salaries and general expenses in Australia in-
cluding remuneration to local directors, rent, rates, re-
pairs, stationery, travelling, etc. . . £73,802 13 6
Salaries and general expenses in London —
including directors and auditors’ fees,
rent, repairs, stationery, telegrams, etc.
Land Tax, Income Tax, and tax on note
issue
11,230
. 7,158 14
6 2
Deduct interest at 4i per cent, on transferable deposit receipts
Balance of undivided profits as above
£21,680 4 1
8 4
92,191 14 1
99,609 14 3
£121,289 18 4
30,901 19 1
.. £90,387 19 3
D. FINLAYS ON,
ILKESTON,
E. V. REID,
Directors.
W. H. BARBER, London Manager and Secretary.
AUDITORS’ REPORT.
Wp certify that we have obtained all the information and explanations we have
rennired We have to report that we have examined the above balance-sheet with the
books at the head office, and the returns from the branches and in our opinion it is
nronerlv drawn up so as to exhibit a true and correct view of the state of the banks
properiyuiawu up information and the explanations given to us, and
S-XIS boiks Sreturi. PBICE. WATEEHOUSE ,od Oo„ Auditor..
AGGREGATE
BALANCE-SHEET
OF
The Bank of New South Wales, March 31, wii.
LIABILITIES.
Notes in Circulation.. £1,218,534 0 0
Deposits, Accrut d In-
terest and Rebate .. 33,265,497 5 11
£34,484,031
Bills Payable and other Liabilities
(which* include Reserves held for
Doubtful Debts and Amounts at
Credit of Investments Fluctuation
Account, Officers’ Fidelity Guarantee
and Provident Fund and the Buck-
land Fund) .. .. -• •• 5,511,056
Paid-up Capital bear-
ing 6 months’ divi-
dend £2,824,480 0 0
Paid-up Capital bear-
ing 3 months’ divi-
dend 89,340 0 0
5 11
1 8
Reserve Fund ..
Profit and Loss
£2,913,820 0 0
. 1,896,735 0 0
. 261,715 711
5,072,270 7 11
£45,067,357 15 6
Contingent Liabilities —
Outstanding Credits, as per Contra..
841,481 15 2
£45.908.839 10 8
ASSETS.
Coin, Bullion and Cash
Balances .. ..£8,639,803 13 5
Australian Notes .. 1,351,687 0 0
Queensland Govern-
ment Notes . .. 96,841 0 0
Notes of other Banks.. 118,709 0 0
Money at short call in
London .. .. 2,881,862 10 0
Investments —
British and Colonial
Government Secur-
ities 3,285,556 3 3
Municipal and other
Securities .. .. 188,264 211
Due by other Banks .. 93,332 4 6
Bills Receivable in
London and Remit-
tances in transit .. 4,739,009 19 #
Bills Discounted, and Loans and Ad-
vances to Customers
Bank Premises
22,932,292 2 3
740,000 0 0
Liabilities of Customers and others on
Letters of Credit as per Contra
£45,067,357 15 6
841,481 15 2
£45,908,839 10 8
Dr
PROFIT AND LOSS, MARCH 31, 1911.
Cr.
Balance proposed to be dealt with as follows
To Dividend at the rate of 10 per cent, per
annum £143,457 10
Interest at 5 per cent, to March 31, 1911,
on Capital paid in advance on other
than the fixed dates .. •• •• 2,879 18
~ Augmentation of the Reserve Fund .. 63,365 o
Balance carried forward 62,112 1J
£261,715 7 11
By
Amount from last Account
Balance of Half-Year’s Profits after de-
ducting Rebate on Current Bills,
Interest on Deposits, paying Note and
Other Taxes, reducing valuation of
Bank Premises, providing for Bad and
Doubtful Debts, and fluctuations in
the value of Investment Securities,
and including Recoveries from Debts
previously written off as bad
±57.342 10
204,372 17
6
£261,715 7 11
Dr
RESERVE FUND,
MARCH 3
Cr
To Balance
(Of which £750,000 is invested in
British Government Securities, and
£500,000 in those of States where we
are represented—in all, £1,250,000.
The balance is employed in the
business o' the Bank).
..£1,950,000 0 0
£1,950,000 0 0
By Balance n
„ Premiums on New Stock paid up .. i 0,736 0 U
„ Amount from Profit and Loss.. .. 53,265 0 0
£1.950,000 0 0
By Balance
£1,950,000 0 0
J. rjiiiiNUtl, Oen ral Manager.
W. E. SOUTH KRDEN, Chief Accountant.
A. G. MILHON, I
VV. H. PALMER, f
Auditors.
V
Shave With a “ PLUM ! *’
Great Razor it is—ringing silver steel blade, keen and
keeps its keenness. We guarantee to keep youis in order
free of charge for two years, and put the right shaving
edge on it before it goes out to you—which, as practical
hairdressers, we know how to do. But get the genuine
PLUM—from us. Imitations are about.
PLUM RAZOR
10/6
The C. & A. Mous-
tache Trainer
makes the mous-
tache a nice shape.
Worn at night.
2/6 POST EJtEE.
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-
PLUM RAZOR, in Case, 10/6.
Pair in Case, 21/-
The Plum Razor Strop, 10/6 and 7/6.
Other good kinds from 3/6 each.
Cake Universal Shaving Soap, 6d.
Razoleo Lightning Sharpener, 6d.
We Crind and Set Razors, 1/- each.
All tbe above Post Kree.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 Ceorge Street, Sydney.
Established
30 Years.
A MONTHLY GUIDE for everything Aus-
tralian. That’s The Lone Hand. “A
marvellous sixpenn’orth ! ”
THE LONE HAND offers you the Glad
Hand. It’s the Right Hand, and a week
after publication there are none left.
tiirwi •-- * * ~*- y *‘* **** r "’ *i* *. v " ‘!ii"
•.:=t*
3®
»?SS
\ J?
i. V
Um-:
v
♦V V
•WINCHESTER
SHOTGUN CARTRIDGES
“NEW RIVAL”
In America, the national trap shooting average was won
the last two years with Winchester Shotgun Cartridges.
Last year the average beat all records, being 97.20 70
for 8,235 targets. Consider what remarkable shooting
this was —less than three targets dropped out of every
hundred —and it was done on all sorts of grounds, in all
kinds of weather and under varying conditions. This
shows the wonderfully uniform shooting of Winchester
cartridges, because any variation in pressure would
probably have prevented such accurate shooting. New
Rival” shotgun cartridges will give the best results
in your gun. Ask for them —The Red W Brand.
FOR SALE BY DEALERS EVERYWHER
E.


The Elite
Eau de Cologne
r~
0
> r—
o I*l
>rjl
gw *1
z”»
iW
m O
M
Joo" r 1 / N - l>C * jgifc
fi
oor.
n
tm
*
ms
\M
«>
PI
ir :•.-
MSS
)fr
\ 4
Triumph of
Modern Science
Obtainable from all leading establishments
THE GEM SEWING AWL.
EVERYBODY CAN USE IT.
Repairs Bags, Belts, Straps, Harness, Boots, Shoes ; Sew*
Carpets, Canvas* Blinds, Tarpaulins
etc., etc., with a LOCK-STITCH.
2s. Posted.
(Awl, 2 nefivlles,
i feel cotton,)
h
Its Immense value in repairs to Boots
and Shoes is now well known, and in
repairs to Bags, Beits, Straps, etc., it
is the " Awl-you-want,' 1 Thread from the
tee] (which maybe kept in one's pocket) is
_ supplied continuously—a great advantage,
apparent m sewing Carpets, Canvas, Blinds, Tarpaulins, etct
Needles are interchangeable, extra ones can always be obtain-
ed, Stout or Kine, Bent or Straight.
PRICE—Gem Sewing Awl (polished, wood handle, brass
fittings, brass bobbin, 2 steel needles—r bent, r straight—r reel
prepared cotton), 2s. complete, post free. Extras : Cotton,
sd„ post free. Needles (stout or fine, straight or bent), ad.,
set °‘ 8 for *S. Send postal note to
MAR NOVEhTr CO.. 228 ColUns Street. Melbourne.
THE DAZZLES
ĥ
ħ
h
J> es t P°cket Lamp on the market. Instantly available—
press the button and a brilliant light floods forth. Can’t blow
ou v n ° sm °ke, np oil, no matches. Powerful simple battery,
can be re-charged with water. Strong case, tits the.hand and
hts the pocket. A wonderful demonstration of tile every-day
utility of electricity, as light is quite safe near gunpowder,
g IS, naphtha, etc. A novelty, ami good fun-may be used
tn a hundred mirth-provoking ways. Fitted with new a-cell
battery (having 6 times the life of the old style 3-cell) and
new metallic filament lamp (giving a brighter light on less
current than the old carbon lamp). Lamp, complete. Os
post free. Extra cells when required, is. gd. ; bulb lamps to
ht, is, 9d., post free. Scarf-pin lights, to attach, 3«. 6(1. Send
postal notes.
STAR NOVEL*Z UO., 229 Collins Street, Melbourne.
ĥ
4 * KURLQ "-Hair-Curling Fiuid. Beaut ful
wavy hair is most admired. “ Kurlo ” produces
most natural-looking waves or curls in a lew
days. Very little trouble ; no tongs or pins re-
quired. “ Kurlo ” curls are not affected by fog.
- sea air, heated bahrooms, etc. May be used
for ladies’, Gent ’s or Children’s hair. Neither sticky
nor greasy; makes the hair soft and silky. Bottles,
as. 6d„ post free, in plain wrapper. Atm rican Toilet
Ag.ncy, Box 166 G.P.0., Melbourne.
&
“ OKO-A-MO " forces growth of moustache and whis-
kers. Bottles, 25. , post free, in plain wrapper.
American Toilet Agency, Box 466 G.P.0.. Melbourne.
with 4 months
Medicator. «lza
3) lachea long.
WHAT IS CATARRH ?
Catarrh is inflammation of the lining
membrane of the nose and adjoining
passages. If this inflammation is not ar-
rested it invades the passages which lead
from the nose to the head, ears, throat and
lungs. It injures the sight and hearing,
destroys the sense of taste and smell, ren-
ders the breath offensive, breaks dean
the affected tissues, and consumes the
nasal cartilages. The discharge, passing
through the lungs and stomach, causes
dyspepsia, also consumption. Do you
want relief and cure? If so, try our
great remedy.
RAMEY'S MEDICATOR cures Catarrh,
Hay Fever, Catarrhal Deafness, Head-
ache, Neuralgia, Colds, Bronchitis, Asth-
ma. Write for booklet free, or send
Postal Note ros. for Medicator complete
treatment, post free anywhere.
Address: Btar Novelty Co., 009-231 Collins Street,
Melbourne. (Box 466, G.P.0.)
e zl/f • •
THE DRUM
IN POSITION
(INVISIBLE* i
DEAFNESS
And HEAD NOISES Relieved by
Using WILSON’S COMMON-SENSE
EAR-DRUMS.
A scientific invention entirely different
in construction from all other devices.
They have restored hearing when other
devices fai ed and medical skill ga've-no
relief. Soft, comfortable and invisible;
no wire or string attachment.
Write for Pamphlet. Mention this paper,
STAR NOVELTY CO., 529 Collim
Street, Melbourne.
“LINSEED COMPOUND’’ —Trade Mark of Kay’
Compound Essence of Linseed for Coujfhs and Colds.
©
&I
? /
O
SKVK
1070
© ©
hh
You will find far greater pleasure in spending your spare hours
at home if you have a "Bijou" table in the dining-room.
This table is specially designed for home use—it contains all the
merits of our standard tables, with the advantage of being readily
convertible into a dining-table by means of a simple adjustment of
leaves.
It is fitted with slate bed, fast-running cushions, covered with
superfine billiard doth, beautifully made and nicely finished.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.
ħ
Pty.
Ltd.
Billiard Table Manufacturers,
397 George St., Sydney. 114 Edward St., Brisbane. Baker Buildings, Featherstone
St., Wellington. 155 Elizabeth St., Melbourne. 7 King William St., Adelaide.
Murray St., Perth. r 4
J*
c
mm
* %
%
l
a?
f*
#S'-«S
AGICJ
:>
Tj* !
br
i
m
m
mat
h
YOU all know the “ man who does the
tricks” at the party—don’t you?
Makes everybody lauyh, puzzles and tricks
them, and they can’t tell how he does it.
YOU can be as clever and funny as he by
the use of our Tricks, Novelties and Magic Surprises. Very simple if you follow the instructions with each
Write for Free Catalogue of Makers
of Mirth and Mystery.
The Wonderful Gyroscope and
Mono-rail Top.
Perfect demonstration of the railroad of
the future. This marvellous top defies
the laws of gravity and equilibrium.
Spins in any position—on top of finger,
end of nose, edge of tumbler, etc. Baffles
Science, delights children, astounds
adults. The morp you spin it, the more
it will puzzle you.
Post Free 1/3, or Larger Size, 2/3.
Chinese Ring Bar Puzzle.
Endless amusement. The idea is to
remove the handle from the rings. ,-Looks
so simple, yet puzzles them all till they
know how. Well made of solid polished
brass. Fits vest pocket. Write for it
to-day, enclosing stamps for amount.
1/- Post Free.
V t
w r V->
3ST
'l'S.
The Wonderful Plate-Lifter.
Will make your friends’ plates and cups dance quite
unexpectedly as they sic at meals. No
one can see the cause ; works quite im-
perceptibly from the other end of the
table. Shrieks of laughter. 1/-postfree.
The Wizard Fortune-
Telling Cards.
Endless interest. Lends
a new charm to pre-
dicting fortune. Sim-
ple tof use.
Wondrous Disappearing
Handkerchief Trick.
This handkerchief makes anythin?
disappear. Very effective.
1/3 Post Free.
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
(H. L. HUTCHINSON, LTD.)
710 GEORGE STREET,
111 KING STREET,
25-27 OXFORD STREET,
SYDNEY.
MEDLOW BATH, Blue Mountains, N.S.W.
MAJESTIC HOTEL.
COMPLETE arrangements have been made by the new proprietor (Mr. W. H. Burgess), late of the Grand
Hotel, Melbourne, for the comfort of visitors during? the forthcoming - season.
Medlow Bath is an ideal resort. The crisp mountain air is a delight, and the mountains, in their
bpring garb, appeal to lovers of the picturesque. Arrangements can he made at the Hotel for motors,
carriages and riding tours.
M°to r .parties can be arranged anytime to start from the City Office —or your own residence—direct
to the Majestic Hotel.
To pedestrians Medlow offers ever-varying attractions. The views in the mountains are superb, and
hours can be spent in walks through the Hotel grounds.
Hot-air pipes are laid in many rooms. Daily Motor trips are made from the Hotel to Jenolan Caves. !
Further particulars can be obtained from the Hotel, or from the Sydney Offices, 42 Castlereagh Street.
W. H. BURGESS, Proprietor.
NEW
Queensland Railways.
Thousands of men will he working on
these shortly, and the wise ones will
wear our
Signal Brand
Boots
especially made for this work, i
EACH PAIR GUARANTEED.
Take no other brand if you wish for
satisfactory wear.
Demand them from your storekeeper.
MADE WITH UNION LABOR.
Have
Green
Soles.
THE
DH£*l»
(RECIS
Have
Green
Soles.
The Davey Halliday C? t - a
BRISBANE, Q.,
SOLE MANUFACTURERS.
Fashionable ~
Favorite-Perfume
r *"
OLFFJiSOHN
I! i'W "T ,7!"
F. Wolff &Sohn
PERFUMERS
KARLSRUHE
BERLIN • LONDON
Obtainable from all the Leading Stores.:
BOVRIL
V
Tickles tiie Palate


LIMY
m
©
hwO
* i, 1
IS
CUTICUBA
SOAP
And Cuticura Ointment.
They do so much for
poor complexions, red,
rough hands and dry,
thin and falling hair.
They do even more for
skin-tortured infants.
9
Her Youtfe
/if
L
TkS.AfcLEN3
. . ( L/.5.A.)
Mexican
WALNUT STAIN
for Grey Hair
only permanent and really satisfactory
ONE SOLUTION Hair Stain
ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES
MILNERS’ SAFES
have the Largest Sale in the World.
SYDNEY : John Keep & Sons, Ltd., Clarence St,.
MELBOURNE : BrisCQ,e& Co., Ltd., Lit,. Collins St.
BRISBANE : Webster & Co., Ltd., Mary St.
PERTH : McLean Bros. & Rigg.
Aus. Rep.—T. Nicholls, c/o Sydney Agents.
“LINSEED COMPOUND” for Coughs and
Cidels. Of proven efficacy for chest complaints.
WHENEVER you see a bear with a Con-
tinent on his back, think of THE LONE
HAND. It’s swag is a Continent.
Ar
-a
&
•V.
*5
ft
C°
'^cturin o
WHOLESALE:
R. Reid & Co., Ltd.
Sargood Bros.
Alcock Bros., Ltd.
Petersen, Boesen
& Co., Ltd.
Etc.
RETAIL:
Everywhere, at 6d.
per tin—Black, Tan,
and Ox-blood.
WOLSEY
FOR UNDERWEAR COMFORT
Wolsey Pure Wool Underwear keeps the warmth in and the
cold out; it maintains the body at an equable temperature;
it absorbs perspiration and keeps mischievous chills at
bay. Its splendid softness and elasticity, its perfect fit, its
freedom from chafing seams, all make for unrivalled comfort.
Wear Wolsey garments next
your skin by night and day
and note the splendid differ-
ence Wolsey makes, not only
to your comfort, but to health
GUARANTE E D
UNSHRINKABLE
PURE WOOL
selected by experts
for its durability
and sound quality.
Wolsey Pure Wool Under
wear is made for service ,
its skilful shaping and spien-
did workmanship conduce
to your entire satisfaction
REPLACED IF
IT SHRINKS
Wolsey Pure Wool Unshrinkable Underwear is sold everywhere in a wide variety
of garments, and in many weights, sizes and qualities, for men, women, and children.
PALMER
CORD
TYRES.
USED ON THE KING’S CARS.
Palmer Cord Tyres.
Only those tyres which have PROVED better than all others have the honor
of our King’s patronage 1
Palmer Cord Tyres must, by reason of their unique and ingenious construction,
last longer and give greater satisfaction than those built upon a canvas foundation.
Apply for New Reduced Price List issued under date Ist May, 1911.
THE SILVERTOMfN RUBBER CO.,
279 GEORGE STREET SYDNEY and at 33 Bolton Streel, Newcastle.
THE
BEST
TYRES.
■AiijetvD JO] spuejf IHHflOd IOd„
The Highest Product of the
Tobacco Blenders’ Art.
“ POT POURRI ” Cigarettes. —The highest grade obtainable, at 6d. per packet of io ;
4/6 per ioo.
“ POT POURRI ” Cigars.— A fragrant smoke— 3d. each ; 5 for 1/- ; 18/6 per 100.
“POT POURRI” Tobacco. — 40Z. tins, 2/- ; Boz. tins, 4/- ; 8/- per lb. There is none
better than this—it is the BEST.
“POT POURRI” Pipes, Silver-mounted, superior quality, all shapes, 2/6 each.
“POt POURRI ” always the same, always enjoyable.
Clients, in country or other States ORDER NOW, and it will be
posted FREE by return, with Catalogue .which will interest you.
A. A. MARKS, Sole Agent, 376 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
I ——»
s^>
lip
Watch Your Skin Grow Clearer
Using soap and water only is expecting Nature to do too much.
Chaps, rough Or red skin, sallowness, blotches, wrinkles, and
other unsightly skin conditions result from the presence of ex-
traneous matter which soap and water does not always eradi-
cate. Help Nature, and keep your skin in tone by using
Icilma Fluor Cream
(Greaseless).
Every day, especially before going out, apply a little of the
cream, and enhance your beauty. Good for preventing
sunburn and freckles.
The native girl reminds you that ICILMA is
the product of a Natural Spring in Algeria.
SAMPLE OFFER. On receipt of 2d. in stamps a dainty
sample of Greaseless Cream will be sent by
PRICE 2/- p"
ICILMA CO. Ltd.
(Dept. D),
139 York Street, SYDNEY.
♦
J FOOD
is for Infants and Invalids
and for those whose digestive
powers have become weakened by
illness or advancing age.
If the digestive functions, however weak, can do
at all they should be given work to do to the
their powers . In the easy process of its prepara-
tion the digestibility of Benger’s can be regulated to give
this work with extreme nicety.
The “British Medical Journal” says—“Benger’s Food
has, by its excellence established a reputation of its own.’
BENGERS FOOD. LTD., Otter Works, Manchester, England.
Bender's Food is sold in tins by Druggists , etc., everywhere
any
extent of
823
The Inky Way.
In its anxiety to hit the eye with its headlines,
Sydney Telegraph falls into some queer situations.
But it was really unkind to sacrifice a friend like
this:—
"A PIG IN A POKE.
“Colonel Onslow, M.L.A., speaking at the Woman’s
Patriotio Club,’’ etc.
The Maoriland Worker, the official organ of the
Federation of Labor (as distinct from the federation
of Trades and Labor Councils), has now got into its
stride as a weekly. R. S. Ross, its new editor, has
brightened it up so that even Fat will find it read-
able. But he had better not read it —Ross writes
so convincingly sometimes that he might be con-
verted.
* « © •
“McGoonk”: This yarn is apropos the common
idea that when one wants to know anything, all one
needs to do is to “write to the paper” and ask about
it. I was striving for a crust in a Goulburn Valley
(Vic.) town, where I had to report for the local
press the usual fortnightly meeting of the Gobung
Benefit Society. The subject for one night was the
Life of Adam Lindsay Gordon. Through procrasti-
nation I arrived at the office with my yard of copy
when the type had been set. “Too late,” said the
editor (and proprietor). He had concluded I had
forgotten my duty, and had written a par. himself.
He produced it for my inspection. It was a vague,
but eloquent, tribute to “that famous general who
lost his life at Khartoum.”
* * # •
“B. de D.”: “Blue Blitzes” (B. 4/5/’ll) denies
my statement that casual men are in a
worse position than the rankest junior; nevertheless
I spoke that which I did know, and testified that
which I had seen. Also, I spake not of Sydney, but
of Melbourne. It is perfectly true that on one big
Melbourne daily a casual may be entered for a meet-
ing, and if his report be not used he draws nothing.
1 know that some Melbourne papers engage an oc-
casional man for a day and pay him 10s., and I
also know that one Melbourne paper, under this
rule, has paid ss. for nearly two columns of copy.
The victim of this sweating was a man who was
entered in the book for an afternoon engagement,
and his labor was regarded as half a day’s work at
10s. a day. He protested, but was informed that the
rate could not be varied. I don’t think that even
“Blue Blazes” would regard half a crown a column
as good pay for the rankest junior.
* *■ * *
W.A. Journalists’ Unon is suffering from palpita-
tion of the pluck. They wouldn’t strike or do any-
thing like that; and an attempt to affiliate the
Journalists’ Union with the Typo. Society was
killed by the bosses’ men. The rank and file were
told that affiliation would be “social outrage” and
the journalists would “lose caste.” The caste of
the 50s. reporter! One Westralian daily has a
man wh© has been doing cables for eight years for
455. a week; another has a leader writer for 60s. a
week; yet another has junior reporters at 30s. doing
senior work ; and a paper run by an insanitary Demo-
crat who preaches raucously against sweating pays
£4 10s. to a sub-editor who has to write from 10
to 12 columns a week. Yet these sweated helots ap-
pear willing to block the betterment of conditions
by talk of “social outrage” and “loss of caste! ”
* * * *
“Billo”: A John Farrell yarn. John, then a
country brewer, but afterwards poet and editor of
the Sydney Daily Telegraph, was at one of the first
Rugby matches played in the south (N.S.W.). It
was a gory mix-up, played at Queanbeyan between
a local side and a team of wiry, long-haired fellows
from Cooma. The afternoon was warm and the
players ill-trained; and every few minutes they
adjourned to a water-bucket. John witnessed the
carnage, and threw out the not unwelcome hint that
beer would be a good substitute for water—and beer
it was. Alongside John was a shanty-keeper from
the fringe of what is now the Federal capital, site.
He watched the gasping Rugbeans at the barrel,
heard the beer gurgling down a couple of score of
gullets, and then turned to John with a wistful look
in his eyes. “By eripes,” he said, “I’ll have a foot-
ball club at my place next summer.”
“Mr. Ocky”: Re these ancient sheets. Seems to
me that the first Australian butcher must have had
a shipload of them as part of his stock-in-trade.
Till recently I thought I was the only person in the
Commonwealth who had a copy of the Mercury, but
[ learn that a man in Gippsland has one also. Very
well, I thought, I am the only chap who has the
Gazett!*, anyway; but “Gideon” jumps in with ex-
tracts from ithe identical issue. And then, just as
I was preparing to write a really good Bulletin par.
anent the “Perfect Diurnal,” etc., in dashes “Con-
dot.” If anyone else precipitates himself into the
subject and beats me with a reference to the
Weekeley Newes, I will pitch my collection of old
rags into the fire. My copy of the Newes is dated
1606 (far more ancient than the others referred to).
It contains “A Brief Discourse upon the Arraignment
and Execution of the eight traytors—-Digby, the two
Winters, Graunt, Rokewood, Keyes, Bates and John-
son alias Guy Fawkes.” The writer of the “dis-
course” evidently has no love for “traytors.” He
remarks that “they were committed to his Majesty’s
Tower of London, where they wanted nothing that,
in the mercy of a Christian Prince, was thought fit,
and indeed too good for so un-Christian offenders.”
He goes on to describe the executions in quite an
interesting way. Below this comes a message dated
“Worcester, Janu. 28, 1606”: “Two traytors were
here executed, one Perkins and his man, of the re-
ceiving and concealing of other traytors. God be
blessed for it.” Some of my old papers go back
to still earlier dates. There is the English Mer-
cury of July 23, 1588, “published by authoritie for
the prevention of false reportes” (evidently there
were some Tory rags in existence in those days). It
contains particulars of the English scrap with the
“Spanish Armado.”
“Condot”: It is mentioned (B. 13/4/’ll) that a
whole edition of “Whitaker’s Almanac” was once
sacrificed because of a serious error. The same dis-
aster happened to the 1856 edition of “Men of the
Time.” The article on Bishop Wilberforce began
thus: “Oxford, the Right Rev. Samuel Wilberforce,
Bishop of, was born in 1805. A more kind-hearted
and truly benevolent man does not exist. A sceptic
as regards religious revelation, be is, nevertheless,
an out-and-out believer in spirit movements.” The
sentences, including the remarks about scepticism
and belief in spirits, had dropped out of the biogra-
phical sketch of Owen Robert, the co-operator. The
edition was cancelled when the error was discovered;
but a few copies had already got into circulation,
fend curio-hunters regard them as valuable books.
THE IMPRESSIONIST.
[FOR THE BULLEITN.]
“Let us get drunk,” the artist said,
“Let us get very drunk, indeed ;
I have a scheme of blue and red
That runneth riot in my head ;
Let us get drunk to match our need.”
“The world is all of formless hue,”
The very drunken artist said,
“Behold a miracle of blue
With red of passion smitten through—
I am exceeding fond of red.”
The artist painted with a spade,
A very soulful wight was he,
An ocean large and fine he made,
But being drunk himself mislaid,
And tumbled headlong in his sea.
And when repentant dawn grew grey,
A-thirst arose that artist elf,
He said, “The blank.v thing may stay,
I really meant to paint the hay—
’Tis an impression of myself.”
The pictured canvas hung on high,
The people came in flocks to view,
And while some gazed with anguished eye,
A man who knew was heard to cry:
. “It’s him, and blanky like him, too!”
N.S.W.
MARY McC.


Missing: Friends.
IF JOSEPH HOLDSWORTH anc
ROBERT HOLDSWORTH, brothers
of RICHARD HOLDSWORTH, late of the
Starke, near Cooktown, Queensland, Miner
deceased, or in case of their death their or
any of their representatives will communi-
cate with the undersigned on or before the
Twelfth day of August next, they will hear
of something to their advantage and any in-
formation concerning them will be thankfully
received.
Dated this eighteenth day of May, 1911.
ROBERTS LEU & BARNETT,
Solicitors, Townsville,
Queensland.
GEORGE BROWN (otherwise GEORGE
CHARLES BROWN) formerly of
Cairns, Queensland, Engineer, and husband
of BETSY BROWN, late of Charters
Towers, Queensland, deceased, or any one
knowing the whereabouts of the said George
Brown (otherwise George Charles Brown),
is requested to communicate with the under-
signed, the Solicitor for the Executors of the
Will of the said Betsy Brown deceased.
Dated at Charters Towers this Nineteenth
day of May, 1911.
H. H. MARSLAND,
Solicitor, Charters Towers,
Queensland.
WANTED.— SAMPSON BEAMISH
BENNETT, Native of Ireland. Last
heard of at Tambo, Barcoo River, Queens-
land, 10 years ago. If alive would now be
over 80 years old. Information desired as to
present whereabouts, or if dead, as to place
and time of death. Apply FOXTON,
HOBBS & MACNISII, Solicitors, Brisbane.
Legal Notice.
N THE SUPREME COURT OF
QUEENSLAND, TOWNSVILLE.
No. 30 of 1911.
MR. JUSTICE SllAND.—Between AR-
THUR JOSEPH CARR, Plaintiff, and
QUEENSLAND TRUSTEES, LIM-
ITED, the Administrator of the goods
of RICHARD HOLDSWORTH de-
ceased, Defendant.
PURSUANT to an Order of this Honor-
able Court made in the above action on the
twelfth day of May, One thousand nine
hundred and eleven, the persons claiming to
be next of kin to the abovenamed RICHARD
HOLDSWORTH, late of Cooktown, in the
State of Queensland, Miner, deceased intes-
tate (who died on or about the seventh day
of May, One thousand nine hundred and
nine, administration of whose personal estate
was granted by the said Court on the fifth
day of March, One thousand nine hundred
and ten, to the abovenamed QUEENSLAND
TRUSTEES LIMITED), living at the time
of his death or claiming to be the legal per-
sonal representatives of such of the said next
of kin as are now dead, are by themselves or
their Solicitors on or before the twelfth day
of August, One thousand nine hundred and
eleven required to come in and prove their
claims at the Registry of this Honorable
Court at Townsville or in default thereof
they will be peremptorily excluded from the
benefit of the said Order.
The sixth day of September, One thousand
nine hundred and eleven, at half-past 2
o’clock in the afternoon at the said Registry
is appointed for hearing and adjudicating
upon the said claims.
Dated the eighteenth day of May One
thousand nine hundred and eleven.
CIIAS. S. NORRIS,
Registrar
ROBERTS LEU & BARNETT,
Solicitors, Townsville,
Town Agents for CHARLES PATCHING,
Solicitor for Defendant,
LuuKluWn.
“ riJHE PUBLIC TRUST OFFICE ACT,
_L 1908.”
Section 50 (New Zealand).
IN the Estate of GEORGE TUCKWELL,
late of Sydney and Cobar, in the State
of 'New South Whiles, Laborer, deceased.
ALL PERSONS claiming to be entitled
to the Estate of the abovenamed deceased
and any persons having any claims against
the same are required to prove the same to
the Public Trustee of the Dominion of New
Zealand, whose Office is at Wellington, in
the said Dominion, on or before the 23rd
March, 1912, or in default thereof they will
be excluded from all benefits under the said
estate.
Wellington, New Zealand, Ist May, 1911.
FRED FITCHETT,
Public Trustee.
NORMANBY SYNDICATE LIMITEDr
IN LIQUIDATION.
"TENDERS are invited for the purchase of the
1 Harper’s Hills Copper, Gold, Silver Mines,
comprising about 160 acres Mineral Leases at
Harper’s Hill (Q.), together with Winding, Milling
and Pumping Plants and Machinery. Particulars
and schedules on application to
R. N. KIRK, Liquidator,
16 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Only
3/6
post
free
h
FAIRY CHIMES
the sweetest and most delightful music.
Very easy to play and charming to near.
Krerj'one knows how entrancing is the
music of the bells, and these perfectly
toned chimes produce the most dulcet
melody. They stand 6 inches high, are
handsomely nickel-plated and strongly
mounted. Cannot get out of order.
Delivered anywhere for 3s. 6d., with
figured tunes that anyone can piay.
THE UN lON COMPANY,
299 Elizabeth St.. Melbourne.
The Practical Typewriter
Writes equal to many £25
machines. So simple that ft
child can use it. yet
good enough for busi-
ness correspondence.
Send for specimen of
its work, you will be
surprised. Delivered
ianvvvhere for 10s. Gd.,
with full instructions.
Only 10/6
Union CO-.9 299 Elizabeth St., Melb.
Marvel Leather Stitcher
Complete 1/6, ca p^ 1 i d ge
Anyone can sole boots,
mend harness, sew leather,
rubber, canvas, &c., equal
to the best tradesmen.
FULL DIRECTIONS WITH EACH OUTFIT.
union MFG. GO., 299 Elizabeth Street, Melb.
ĥ
“LINSEED COMPOUND” of 40 years’ proven
efficacy, for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis, etc.
The Fiftieth
Number of
The Lone Had
Published on June 1.
Four Big Features of
this Big Number:
1. The New Serial.
“ The Recipe for
Rubber/’ a Ro-
mance of the South
Pacific, by a new
anonymous author.
If you cared for
“Treasure Island’’
The Heroine of the New Serial.
you will revel in “The Recipe for Rubber."
2. The Hidden Shame.
The concluding article of the series of
exposures of Sweating in Sydney. The
N.S.W. Government has promised a Royal
, Commission to investigate the whole
question of women’s labor.
3. How “The Lone Hand” is Produced.
“ The Making of a Magazine " shows how
contributions are dealt with, how the blocks
are etched, how the pages are printed —in
brief, it furnishes an interesting inside view
of a new and growing Australian Industry.
4. How to Begin as a Black-and-white Artist.
Valuable suggestions to the art-student by
Lionel Lindsay.
PRICK the usual UQ«
Something New in Bioscopes.
ħ
The New Beard British Built Bioscope, with extra
sprocket and new Film Boxes. Price, £45.
The New Wrench Models. Type C and OOC absolutely
up-to-date. Maltese Cross action. Perfect mechanism
and chain drive. Price, £35 to £55.
The Latest Continuous Picture Machine and splendid
combination of English and French workmanship.
Unequalled by any—a regular giant cinematograph.
Price, £lOO
WE ALWAYS HAVE IN STOCK—
The Beard Perfect Projector
Standard Bioscope.
IT WILL OUTLAST ANY MACHINE.
Built to give honest wear. At least 500 of them in
use to-day. Price, £37 10s.
Secondhand Machines.
Beard’s, £27 10s.
Edison, £25. Pathe, £3O.
Full Particulars on
Application^
JERDAN’S,
“My Opticians,”
Leading Cinematograph Specialists.
393 George Street
(Facing
Royal Hotel),
Sydney.
CAPHIARTMIr THE MOUSTACHE PRODUCER
h
ĥ
ħ
GROW A MAN’S MOUSTACHE.
You look such a youth with that while, soft down on your upper lip.
“Oh, he’s only a boy !” people say slightingly, when they speak of you. Grow
a moustache, sir. Yes, you CAN. CAPILLARINE will give you a splendid
moustache growth. Simply forces the hair out long and strong.
No one can tell you use it! Spend half a crown on a Moustache Trainer,
too. Worn at night, 2s. 6d. post free.
Capillarine costs 10/6 a jar. Posted to any part of the world in plain
wrapper. Send for our free illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
Established
30 Years.
p
4>
Thomas Alva
EDISON.
'“pHE EDISON PHONOGRAPH
was invented by Thomas Alva
Edison, and is the only sound-
reproducing instrument that has had the
continuous service of the great inventor.
It is still controlled by Mr. Edison,
and it still has the constant benefit of
his efforts as an inventor and his advice
as a scientist. No other sound-repro-
ducing instrument has so distinguished
a man at its head.
You ought to know more about the
Edison. There is a model to suit every-
body’s means, from the Gem at £2/12/6
to the Amberola at £45. Get com-
plete lists from your dealer, or from us.
The EDISON
Phonograph.
National Phonograph Co. of Australia, Ltd.
(Wholesale Only),
Dept. 8., 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
h
A
BRAHAM
costume;
FOR
WINTER;
DAVID BRAHAM
AND CO.,
76 Market Street,
Sydney.
Next door to Farmer’s.
RHEUMATISM]
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY.
GOUT. RHEUMATISM.
SCIATICA, LUMBAGO,
NEURALGIA.
Blair’s
GOUT AND
RHEUMATIC
They Never Fait.
They Always Cure.
Pills
The only true and safe remedy for Gout and
Rheumatism that has stood the test of time
All Chemists and Stores at i/i J & 2/9 per box
Proprietors. PROUT A Co., 229. Strand.
London, England
ĥ
FOP YOUR BOOTS & SHOES
MELTONIAN
PASTE
In Black
or Brown.
“The World’s Boot Polish.”
vox Onw
►OXI
KIIM JLXUMVOOTWWC XUN
[%]
(fa aw™
UmisHwc
GLACE KlOet.
M*rst av
e.brown *son
A 1 THtlfc MU.TOMIAM MANUFACTORY
_ rCAMICKS’ WNOON W.C
?**wt atncEKE,
The belt and alto the cheapest Paite Polish on
the market for cleaning, polishing and pre-
serving all kinds of Leather Boots, Shoes, etc.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
E BROWN & SON, Ltd , LONDON, Eng.
COLORED POST CARDS, by Harry J.
Weston -1 “ WEEKLY WORRIES. ”
Set of six, posted free, 6d, , Bujxi-jtin
Newspaper Co. 214 George St., Sydtfey.


Shipping.
P. and O. BRANCH SERVICE
For DURBAN, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
ħ
SALOON ACCOMMODATION, AMIDSHIPS,
CONVERTED INTO VERY SUPERIOR
ONE CLASS.
LONDON £l6, £lB and £‘2o.
CAPETOWN and NATAL £l3 135., £l5 15r. and £l7 17s.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD., 7 Bent St.
Mki.homrnk Aornts : .10IIN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William-street.
Auki.aidk & Rrrmanti.k Aornts : OEO. WILLS & CO.-
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN D.
011 VI CTO .
OSTERLEY
OTRANTO .
OTWAY .
ORSOVA .
ORONTES
OMRAH .
OPHIR
ORAMA (Building)
Twin-Screw
12,130 Regd. Tons.
12,129 ~
12,124 „
12,077 „
12,036 „
9,023 „
8.282 „
6.814 ..
13,000
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy. New and luxurious
12,000-ton Steamers. Cahines-de-luxe ; State-rooms, with
bedsteads ; Single Berth Rooms, Private Bathrooms;
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Sailing every fortnight from BRISBANE, SYDNEY
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
l2 Martin Place, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
jjank of Dorth Queensland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director:
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 4 QUEEN VICTORIA STREET, E.C.
Manager: R. R. LOVE.
Bankers: THE LONDON COUNTY & WESTMINSTER
BANK LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Bank of Dew
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
Total Capital Paid-up £2,000,000
Uncalled Capital £500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits £864,134
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at In terest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usnal Banking business'.
THE.
Australian jjank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL - . . £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,197,127
PAID-UP (31st December, 1910) - - £1,145,933
HEAD OFFICE—George and King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE—2 King William Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS—Sir William P. Manning, Kt., Chairman ;
George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D.; Ciias. H. Myles, Esq. ;
Mark Sheldon, Esq. ; Arthur S. Barton, Esq.; Frank
N. Yarwood, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the world.
A. P. STEWART, General Manager.
The ...
Queensland National Bank,
Limited
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.*
Subscribed Capital .. .. '.. .. £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 413,484 8 10
Reserve (in Gov. Stock) 94,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock . 3,091,669 4 5
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 Specially Protected.
Directors: JAS. MILNE, Esq., Chairman; JAMES
MUNRO, Esq. ; Hon. A. J. CALLAN, Esq., M.L.C. ;
JOHN CAMERON, Esq. ; F. LORD, Esq.
General Manager— VV. V. RALSTON.
Branches—London, Sydney & throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
Th£ Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up £519,237 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. .. 161,384 0 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) .. 75,500 0 0
i u u
HEAD OFFICE : BRISBANE.
Gen. Mnjrr.: Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mnfpr.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London,
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
The Colonial mutual £ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and
Annuities without Mutual Liability ; also
Accident and Sickness Assurance.
Hf.au Offick :
418 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds. £3,219,446.
Amounts_paid to Policyholders exceed £5,300,000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. -Liberal Bonuses equitablv distributed.
Chuck Offick for Nkw South Walks :
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hor. C. J. Robkrts, C.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruck Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Shipping:.
REDUCED FARES
To EUROPE
Nord D
eutscher
'loyd.
PASSENGERS hooked to Egypt, Naples,
Genoa, Algiers, Marseilles, Gibraltar,
London, Antwerp, and Bremen.
h
w Fitted with “ Wireless ” installation.
* Fitted with Gymnasium.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
REGULAR FOUR-WEEKLY MAIL
SERVICE from Sydney and Brisl >ane, via
New Guinea, by Twin-screw Steamers.
For Passage and Full Particulars apply to —
LOHMANN & CO., General Agents,
7 & 9 Bbidge Street, Sydney ;
OSTERMEYER DEWEZ & VAN ROMPAOY, Melbourne :
H. MUECKE & CO., Adelaide ;
L. RATAZZI & CO., Perth and Fremantle;
THOS. BROWN & SONS, Ltd., Brisbane and Townsville.
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS—New
Series. IV., V.. VI. Packet of Twelve,
6d. ; Packet of Ten, sd. Forwarded Post Free
to any address.
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth and
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
ĥ
o Fitted Wireless Telegraphy,
f One Class Only. * Not taking Passengers.
FARRS— Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. ... From £57 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Special Return Tickets available for outward passage
by Orient Line—£ll2 (First-class each way); £B5
(Second-class Orient).
ROUND THR WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets. Time-Tables, &c., on application.
DALCETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN, PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
ħ
Twin-screw Steamers.
RUNIC, 12,. r >oo tons, to sail nbout
June 7.
MEDIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
July 5.
AFIIIC, SUEVJO and I'EItSIC to follow.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy and
Submarine Signalling- Apparatus.
Only One Class of Accommodation!
FARKS—Capetown or Durban £l5 In 0 to £24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
Melbourne 1 10 0
New York, Boston, Quebec,
Montreal, &c. from 25 0 0
Pamphlets and all other information on application.
LUGGAGE Received Onlv on Day of Sailing,
DALGETY & COMPANY , Ltd.,
A'tents in Australia.
w
YOUR WINTER
HOLIDAY.
CEND for our Booklet, “Papua and the
Pacific Islands, How to visit them?”
describing many delightful Island trips from
upwards. Most attractive as Winter
Holiday Cruises.
<!
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., 11 Bridge St., Sydney.
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES,
HEAD OFFICE: MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
MONEY TO LEND
To Farmers and Settlers from £5O to £2OOO,
repayable by instalments extending- over 30 years
with right to repay loan without penalty.
Partial repayments on favorable terms.
Low rates of interest.
Valuation Fees on lowest scale.
On Investment up to £25,000 for fixed terms not
exceeding-five years on Freeholds or Certificated 0. P’s.
and Associated O.L’s. Interest payable half-yearly.
Rig-ht to repay one-fifth of principal each year
allowed.
Lowest current rates of interest.
Full particulars ai
Crown Land-"
i forms of application for loans obtainable at any Branch or Post Office Agency,' or .'from •
gents and at the Head Office, MOORE STREET, SYDNEY. J. 11. Daviks. Secretary.
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
1%
gjSS
£2,913,820
£1,950,000
£2,913,820
£7,777,640
DIRECTORS:
The Hon. O. K. MacKellar, M.L.C., President-,
Senator The Hon. .lames Thomas Walker.
The Hon. Reginald Janies Illaek, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Norniand MacLa
in, Ivt., M.L.C.
Auditors: Alfred George jlilson, Esq. ; William Harriott, on Palmer, Esq. ' !
Head Office—George St., Sydney. London Office—64- Old Broad St., E.C
With 330 Branches in all the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji and Papua (New South Wales 165, Victoria 38
Queensland 49, Soutli Australia 5, West Australia 11, New Zealand 54, Tasmania », Fiji 3 Papua
London 1); and Agents and Correspondents throughout the United Kingdom, Europe, India, China Japan’
and the East, Africa, Canada, the United States, South America. Honolulu, and the West Indies ’
Cable remittances made to, and Drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills negotiated and
collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up £1,500,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 1,420,000 0 0
Reserve Capital 1,500,000 0 0
£4,420,000 0 0
DIRECTORS r
George J. Cohen, Esq. .. .. Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Ivater, M.L.C. .. .. Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C. A. J. Onslow Thompson, Esq.
Hon. James Burns, M.L.C.
Auditors : E. S. Cape, Esq., and F. W. Hixson, Esq..
General Manager : T. A. Dibbs.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
H. H. Massie.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
Manager : A. J. Soutar.
Accountant: VV. R. Sayers.
Secretary: M. S. Grant.
Branch Accountant: J. Clayton.
Inspectors:
VV. C. B. Tiley, W. H. Piniiey.
London Office: 18 Bircliin - Lane.
Directors : F. H, Dangar, Esq. ; Hon. H. S. Littleton ;
N.-D: Cohen, Esq.
Manager, F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
The METROPOLITAN
ACCIDENT, FIRE
and GENERAL
INSURANCE COMPANY, LIMITED.
THE CO-OPERATIVE FIRE OFFICE.
Shares Issued to Contributors of Business.
When Your Premium is Due Get Full Particulars.
HEAD OFFICE: 30 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
BRANCHES: Victoria, S. Aus., Queensland.
‘ COAGULINE,’ ‘ KLINX,’ ‘TENASITINE’
—Cements for breakages, manufacturing purposes, etc.
THE OCEAN
Accident & Guarantee
Corporation Limited,
Ocean House, 22 Moore Street, Sydney.
Fire, accident, workmen’s com-
pensation, PUBLIC RISK, BUR-
GLARY and PLATE-GLASS INSURANCES
at Lowest Rates.
THE TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS
■* AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Coliins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Investedin Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £37.500 0 0
Directors : R. Murray Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Chairman ;
John Grice, Esq., Vice-Chairman ; Hon. J. M. Pratt: J. H.
MacFarland, Esa., M.A., LL.D. ; Alexander M'Cracken.
JAMES BORROW MAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
CO. Limited.
HEAD OFFICE :
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY,
CAPITAL - £500,000.
Fire Insurances
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Marine Risks. .
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
THOMAS M. TINLEY. Manager.
“ fTIHE Australian thinks in Continents, because
I he is the only man who has a Continent
to think in.” THE LONE HAND is the only
Magazine that caters for a Continent.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Quasnsiand Ports*
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
GERALDTON (W.A.)
S.S. lianowna, June 24
(To Fremantle without
transhipment), connect-
ing- with Koombana
in Fremantle for North
West Ports.
BRISBANE
MACIvAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Olirns.
S.S. Wollowra, June TO.
S.S. Innamincka, June 17.
S.S. Grantala, June 24.
Best anc/ Cheapest Route to Goldfields'.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO.. LTD.,
Aa-ents, 6 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
To VANCOUVER, via BRISBANE,
FIJI, and HONOLULU, thence
by Rail to any part of CANADA
or UNITED STATES.
The Best Route to Europe.
SAILINGS :
h
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
* Via Auckland, New Zealand ; omits Brisbane.
Illustrated Pamphlets Free on Application.
Agents throughout Canada, United States
and Europe—Canadian Pacific Railway Co.
For full particulars apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
.Managing Agents, 269 George-street, Sydney.
r.—h.—iS.
FederaUHoulder-Shire Lines.
STEAM TO LONDON
Via SUEZ CANAL.
S.S. “FIFESHIRE,”
10,000 Tons. E. T. Crkmer, Commandef.
Will be despatched from BRISBANE about 20th June
~ SYDNEY „ 27th June
„ „ MELBOURNE „ 4th Julv
.. ~ ADELAIDE „ 11th July
The saloon accommodation consists of all two-berth
cabins on the upper deck, situated amidships.
I The superior third-class accommodation, comprised of
two, four and eight-berth cabins, situated on the main
deck, amidships, with dining room on the upper deck.
Well lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious decks.
Third-class passengers supplied with fresh provisions
from cool chamber throughout the voyage. Surgeon and
Stewardess carried. Electric light throughout. Return
and Round Trip tickets issued via Cape and (or) Suez
routes. Prepaid passages arranged.
Saloon. Third Class.
PARES .. .. £49 10s. £l3 13s. £15155. £l7 17s.
Steerage fares from Brisbane One Guinea extra.
To be followed at regular four-weekly intervals by fast
twin-screw passenger steamers. For further information,
illustrated books, pamphlets, etc., apply to
BIRT & CO., Ltd., Svdnev ;
TURNBULL, MARTIN & CO., Brisbane;
H. JONES & CO.. Ltd., Hobart;
MeILWRAITH, McEACHARN & Co., Ltd., Melbourne;
ELDER, SMITH & Co., Ltd.. Adelaide.
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.,
FOR
Ordinary 8 Industrial Life Assurance.
' Directors:
It. Montgomerie Hamilton, Esq., Chairman.
Victor E. Ludlow, Esq., L.H.C.5.1., L.K.Q.C.P.I.
Claude Manning, Esq.
John F. Urk, Esq.
General Manager: J. A. Henderson.
Secretary:
Freeman J. Eaton.
Consulting- Actuary
W. R. Day, F.I.A.
Ilead Office:
30 CASTLEREACH ST. (facing- Moore St.), SYDNEY.
Queensland:
Metropolitan Buildings,
Adelaide St., Brisbane.
Victoria:
48 Queen St.,
Melbourne.
The “Metropolitan” always has vacancies on its
Afrency Staff for reliable and trustworthy men.
IX
'EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda., Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
“ LINSEED COMPOUND” for Coughs and
Colds. Relieves Asthma and difficult breathing.


The Pleasures of Photography
are Greater if you use a
KODAK CAMERA!
The Kodak Camera solves every photographic problem for those who desire to secure
the utmost pleasure from the pastime*
It makes the securing of perfect results a remarkably easy matter indeed, because it has
abolished all mystery and bother from each operation. The camera can be loaded
and unloaded in daylight; the films can be developed and printed in daylight;
everything is simple, pleasant and certain.
For your protection, you should ask for the Kodak Camera by name, and LOOK FOR
THE WORD “EASTMAN” on the instrument you purchase. “IF IT ISN'T
AN EASTMAN, IT ISN'T A KODAK/'
There are Brownie Kodaks, from 5/- to 50/-; regular Kodaks range from 26/-
upwards.
The Kodak Catalogue will be sent free upon request if you cannot call.
y-. —i
' ■ '‘2. i
*; ' . , ■■•'■•■'./>• ■
* * *
m
■£"’ ’* * • -*-’ ,c .;..
rtsSK a*
V.
■' ■ ■ ■ • „■ -
~ » ■~ .
irVi
: •■]-
a -t
:,,m
SiP r
■ i
<?.
■'o'^/S ' ijw*
i—i L—
_
£,270
in Prizes
Austral Standard Plate Prize Competition.
CLASS A
(Professional Studio Pictures
only)
£lOO
h
CLASS C (Junlor3).
For Photographers under the
Age of 20 Years.
First Prize £25
Second Prize 10
Third Prize 5
Fourth Prize 2/10/-
Fifth Prize 1/10/-
And 12 of 10/- each.. 6
£5O
CLASS D.
Special Class for Professional
Outdoor & Press Photographers.
First Prize .. £l2
Second Prize.. .. 5
Third Prize .. .. 3
Conditions of the Competition are
obtainable from all Kodak Agents,
or direct from any. of our branches.
KODAK (Australasia) LTD.,
Incorporating Bakor
& Rouse Prop. Ltd.,
379 George St.. Sydney. “ The Block,” 284 Collins St., Melbourne. 3/ Rundle St., Adelaide*
78-80 Queen St., Brisbane. Ruthven St., Toowoomba. Flinders St., Townsville. 346 Argent St., Broken Hill. 6 Mercer St., Wellington, N.Z.
Now,
retail prices are largely governed by the method of merchandising the goods*
Closely interwoven with our policy of quality, sincerity and integrity are Cash
Principles, which mainly account for the lowness of our prices and the superiority of our
stocks. With ready money available in big sums, we are welcomed in the most exclusive
manufactories, and thus our silverplated ware is always better in design, and costs less.
We countenance neither debts nor middlemen of any kind. Be sure of the quality. Be certain
of a saving. The “Treasure House ” merits
your patronage. Some specially attractive
Toilet Ware.
H 7676 —Solid Silver Frog Pin
Cushion, 8/6
m
is
F72B7—Solid Silver and Cut Glass
Toilet Bottle, 6Jin. high, £5 15s.
E6s34—Sterling Silver
Mounted Manicure
Sensors, curved points,
8/6
G 4835 —Solid Silver Trinket Box, size
5 x.3i, £.4
Jso3s—Handsome Silver-plated Jewel Box, Satin-lined, with lock and key, size 7 x 0,
3£in. high ; price £5 Ss. A large selection of other designs in stock, ranging >n
prices from 7/6 upwards.
G796o—Solid Silver Hair Brash, 12/6; with Comb, in case, 2C/
G7964—Solid Silver Hand Mirror, same design, 27/6
J3sol—Sterling- Silver Pearl Shell Pin Tray, 7/6
(Kangaroo or Emu).
J 4168 —Solid Silver and Cut Glass
Powder Box, 10/6
c:
G(sl>o7—Sterling Silver Lavender
Salts Bottle Holder, 30/=*
Stewart Dawson 8 Co.,
(Australia), Ltd.,
Strand Corner, 412 George St., Sydney.


-'LungTrouble
and Wasting.
. Footscray, Victoria, Aus.
Dear Sirs, —After an attack of pleurisy followed by pneumonia I suffered
from debility with much loss of weight, and could not regain strength. The
doctor said I was in a decline and ordered me away. I determined instead to
give Angier’s Emulsion a trial, and I am very pleased that I did so, for the
result has been most gratifying. My friends are greatly astonished at the
improvement in my appearance, and I can honestly and thankfully say that fram
better now than I have been for many years. I do not wish you to publish my
name, but will gladly answer any enquiries that may come to you concerning
this testimonial. (Name and address furnished privately).
ANgier
Angier s Emulsion is invaluable in all throat and lung affections ; also for digestive
disorders and wasting diseases. It soothes and heals the lungs and air passages,
promotes normal, healthy action of the digestive organs, and . builds up health and
strength. Angier’s Emulsion is pleasant to take and agrees perfectly with delicate
stomachs. Of all chemists, 1/3, 219 and 4/6.
A FREE SAMPLE
sent on receipt of 4d. postage. Mention this paper.
THE ANGIER.CHEMICAL CO.. Ltd., 7 Barrack St., Sydney. gO:
WINTER COUGHS
are' dangerous without you stamp them out quickly.
What to use may puzzle you, but we are never dis-
appointed by recommending our subscribers to use
thq old tried remedy, Chamberlain’s Cough Rem-
ĥ
Winter
Coat for
18/11
Our Stock of Coats
this year is fine.
Take this one as an
example.
It’s made of nice
quality Tweed in
Greys and Greens ; it
has wide revers and
turned-back cuffs.
18/11
The Price for AH
Sizes is 18/11.
Then we have other styles—not any better
made, because the i.B/ll coat is splendidly
made, but better in the material —at 21/-,
23/6, 25/6, 27/6, 32/6, 37/6 up to
49/6.
'ln Navy Serge—long lengths, coats
trimmed with black military braid on the
collar, cuffs and skirt ; we have many nice
styles at 18/11, 23/6, 27/6, 35/=, 39/6.
SEND FOR CATALOGUE.
Finney, Isles 8 Co.
LIMITED,
The Big
Block)
BRISBANE
IN
BANANA LAND
No Queensland constituency (South Bris-
bane excepted) wobbles so much as Rock-
hampton. When Ividston resigned, the
town elected John Adamson (Labor), and
then promptly stultified its action by giving
the “Noes” on the Referendum a majority of
over 300. Mount Morgan, a few miles away,
serves as a corrective, and votes Labor all
the time.
The Denham Cabinet has decided to build
the long-desired Drayton deviation. In 1903
the Philp Ministry refused to construct this
line, and Jim Tolmie, driven by the boot-
toes of infuriated constituents, deserted
Philp and caused his downfall. To-day
Tolmie is a member of Bananaland’s Cab-
inet, and the deviation comes as a matter of
course. In fact, almost any deviation
comes as a matter of course to the alleged
Democratic Government of Digby Denham.
Queensland’s fighting parson, Hulton-Sams,
has entered for the North Queensland ama-
teur championships, to be knocked off in
August at Charters Towers. If he wins
through, he will in September, at Brisbane,
battle for the amateur lightweight champion-
ship of Australia. And if he wins that he
will retire definitely from the ring, and use
his uppercuts and right and left hooks on
the jaw of the Devil only. Satan is appar-
ently in for a bad time.
Bananaland is to luxuriate in petrol-driven
“auto-cars”—handsome coaches which will
(on paper) carry 75 passengers, and have a
speed capacity up to 60 miles an hour (also
on paper). The idea is to run them on
small country branch lines, where the traffic
is not heavy, but suburban travellers may
also be given a show. A beginning is to be
made with five, costing £24,000. The Rail-
way Department got the hint from America,
where nearly 100 are running. But it didn’t
take the whole hint. America builds its own
cars. Bananaland is to import its little lot.
At a concert in aid of the Longreach Con-
vent during “show week”—“the West’s”
great annual shivoo —the Rev. (Anglican)
Hicks began the, evening with “Father
O’Flynn,” and the Streeton, of the same
Anglican Bush Brotherhood, ended it with
“Off to Philadelphia in the Morning.” The
sectarian devil lias a hard row to hoe in
Western Queensland.
Daniel Kingsland, who has spent 20 years
making money in America, has returned to
Bananaland, where he formerly held the
reins for Cobb and Co. Leaving Australia,
Daniel helped to pioneer the export cattle-
trade of the Argentine. Four years ago he
reckoned that it was a fair thing to retire
from business, so he went to live in Eng-
land: but the call of Australia kept ringing
in his ears, and so he is back in the land
where, he spent many rollicking days in the
good times of Gympie and thereabouts.
LENDING COLOR TO SUSPICION.
MRS. SNAGGERS (finally): "D'yer wanter know my opinion o' you? Well, my opinion
is as how the woman what gels black eyes when her lorful ’usband’s away in the
West ain’t no better nor she orter be.”
Died at Warwick, on May 13, aged 51,
Charles Free, a well-known Bananaland
wheat-breeder. He successfully raised the
variety called Free’s Abundance, which is
much in favor on the Darling Downs.
Anti-Sosh has got another tough bit to
chew in Bananaland. A while back the
State decided to help the afflicted
Western children, who were losing their
sight wholesale from ophthalmia; and the
latest, report says that, whereas four years
ago 33 per cent, of the school children were
’afflicted at one school, the number has now
been reduced to 1 per cent. Of course, the
Government yarn is that this State-enterprise
isn’t Socialism. But, then, nothing is
Socialism once it succeeds.
His Choice.
[FOR THE BULLEITN.]
Personally I’d rather be born poor than a mil-
lionaire, and 1 have some experience in both direc-
tions.—Andrew Carnegie.
Though in wealth he roll and revel,
Never short of vulgar tin,
If again his earthly level
He could choose and new begin,
He would never start with millions, for he’d like
his way to win;
And the wild, insensate gamble
Stirs the inmost reiving blood,
As the peaceful, quiet amble
Of Existence never could
In the veins of him whose wealth comes in here-
ditary flood.
He who’s rocked in cradle lowly,
And is fed with wooden spoon,
Feels a battling joy unholy
That the soft, blue-blooded loon
Never dreams of as he dozes in his golden hearted
noon.
Mark the eye fixed on the dollar,
Mark him pressing to the fore,
Mark him straining in the collar
As he feels within his core
Greed immortal ever calling—“Give us millions!
Give us more!”
As he presses through the battle
With the force and fire of ten,
In his mind it is but cattle
He is smiting, never men,
And the meaning high of Mercy never cometh in
his ken.
Were he rocked in cradle golden
He would never, never know
All the raptures fierce and olden
That in struggle ebb and flow,
And the joy that fiercely floods us at a fellow’s
overthrow;
And to live Existence tamely,
As a rank and fattened weed,
And to batten trim and tamely,
When beneath the Flag of Greed
He might win a golden guerdon, were a choosing
poor indeed!
QUEENSLAND.
PHILANDER FLAM.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, -May 27, 1911.
My Dear Tiiargomindah,—
His Ex. and Lady Macgregor, accom-
panied by the Vision and her two guests,
Miss McPliillamy and Miss McKellar, and
attended by the Scarlett aide, ornamented
the vice-regal box at the races on Wednes-
day. Lady Mac. was gowned and hatted in
mauve, and the Vision was glorious in pale
blue. Mr. and Mrs. Jack Thomson (she
used to be Miss Forsyth, of Sydney) were
also of the party in the vice-regal pen.
Charles Evans, Bananaland’s new Rail-
way. Commissioner, has been 44 years in the
service of this Northern State. He served
his apprenticeship with the Great Western
in England, and his father was 40
years with that co. The new Commissioner
was for many years Traffic Manager in North
Queensland, and when General Traffic Man-
ager Dunbar retired, three years ago, he
came south and took on that large job.
The Queensland Women’s Electoral
League lined up about 500 strong last . Mon-
day for its annual hurrah. Premier Den-
ham patted the lady lovingly on the vanity,
and assured her that only bargain-sales
Could take her down. Denham himself is
a remnant in proof. '
The citizen homeward plods his weary
way these times in darkness, or by the fitful
glim of a lucifer, for the gas-men are on
strike, and the night has come into its own.
h or myself I can say it has been a blessing
in disguise. I have at last discovered a use
tor Hansard reports; they take the place
of a gas-stove admirably.
Church and State are again wrangling
over the Yarrabah Mission Station. The
argument on one side is that whatever fail-
ures have come about have not been the fault
of the clerical managers, but have been
due to the hostility of outsiders, the interfer-
ence of the Chief Protector of Aborigines
and the ravages of Providence, who flayed
the place with four successive cyclones. On
the other hand, it is contended that the in-
dustrial and agricultural development at
the station has been too dilatory to catch up
with the requirements of the scheme for
Binghi’s salvation, and that an ounce of
practical experience is worth a cwt. of
Mothers’ Help Society theory. All the
same, if the Government takes the advice of
a lot of people qualified to speak, it will
leave our half-caste sister at Yarrabah, even
in the present make-shift conditions, rather
than encourage her to go to service in the
city, which is : what a few, people want the
Government to do.
Minister Appel is still braving the
dangers of the deep in the old tub Otter,
k rom the accounts one gets the party seems
to have had a joyous picnic, and to have
been received with open arms by the North-
ern citizen wherever the wandering barque
made port.
The Assembly Ball last Tuesday was not
as cheery as one would have liked it to be.
Fully 58 disconsolate wallflowers lined the
room during every dance, and the chaperons
wore a chilled and discontented air. This
bears out the suspicion aroused at the be-
ginning of the season that these hops would
languish for want of a sufficient supply of
man. Even this might be overcome if so
much of the rare animal as is available
were more widely distributed. There is im-
mediate success awaiting a ball-room com-
mittee which will decide by raffle the part-
ners for, say, every other dance. That
would give some of us a sporting chance, at
least; and we’d manage the rest ourselves,
thank you.
Miss Ivo Brenan is now in the
Land of the Plague and Great Unrest,
and is having a gorgeous time. Uncle is
one of the “High Chief Military Man” of
those parts, and faithful subalterns and
curry-cured majors are plentiful. Several
girls hereabouts have registered a solemn
vow to pouch the necessary pennies until the
required fare is forthcoming, to enable them
to follow in Miss Ivo’s footsteps. “Indialin
our time” is the war-cry, “especially Durbar
time.”
Yours affectionately,
MARIO.
Premier Denham’s Oxley constituents have
presented him with a set of cutlery. The
gift was no doubt suggested by an incident of
1903, when the Philp Government fell under
the knives of men who had vowed to be loyal
to the death.
Bananaland State legislators have taken
careful note of the result of the S.A. Refer-
endum on the raising of legislators’ salaries,
and are thanking Providence that Queens-
land M’s.L.A. raised their own screws before
last election, and took the electors’ approval
for granted.
Brisbane is fond of its little yelp about
the Democratic constitution of its new Uni-
versity. Hence it is exceedingly gratifying
to read that the first Senator’s robe will be
merely “trimmed with a scarlet ribbon, with
real gold bullion Russia braid over the tip-
pet at the back, and down the front on both
sides,” and that “the Chancellor’s stole con-
sists of seven Maltese crosses in blue silk,
surrounded by real gold bullion in a circle
of gold Russia braid, the ends of the stole
being finished off with real gold bullion
fringe.” Now, if there had been eight Mal-
tese crosses on the Chancellor’s stole, The
Bulletin would have had doubts about the
Democratic government of the plain, home-
spun show. But a mere seven crosses
show that the institution will suffer no frills,
and is just going to seek wisdom, and cake
nothing about anything else.
Walker’s Ltd., of Maryborough, last week
took a day off to celebrate the completion of
its 150th loco, for the Queensland railways;
and engine No. 150 drew the train contain-
ing the management, the employees, and
their families and friends —1500 all told—-to
I’ialba, Maryborough’s seaside spot. C. J.
Booker, M.L.A., presided at the dinner, and
in the course of his speech said that
Walker’s had topped the Australian, if not
‘he world’s, record, by turning out, with 400
hands, engines at the rate of one a week,
simultaneously with much mining,, sugar and
general machinery and bridge work. They
expected to be able to complete the remain-
ing 15 engines of the current contract at the
same rate. Other States had endeavoured
to secure, contracts with Walker’s for the
construction of locos.; but as there was every
probability of the Queensland Government
keeping the firm busy for some time, outside
orders were not being rushed at present.


Comstock’s “Dead Shot” Worm Pellets
A Safe, Sure and Reliable Remedy fob the
Eradication of Worms in Children
and Adults.
Worms, by their movements, and the interrup-
tion they offer to the contents of the bowels,
generally occasion pain or uneasiness in the abdo-
men, sometimes spasmodic, sometimes gnawing or
biting, and not infrequently of a vague, indescrib-
able character, and yet very distressing. Sympa-
thetic with this is a sensation of itching at the
anus and at the nostrils, producing a disposition
to scratch the fundament and pick the nose,
which is characteristic of this affection. The
bowels are often disordered, sometimes consti-,
pated or stopped, and sometimes relaxed with
occasional bloody discharges, as in dysentery. The
discharge is sometimes in shreds or flakes, which
are not infrequently mistaken for fragments of
partially-digested food. It is not uncommon for
portions of undigested food to pass with the dis-
charges. The appetite is exceedingly variable; in
some cases natural, in others deficient, craving
or depraved; one condition not infrequently
alternating with another. The abdomen is often
hard, swollen and tympanetic, the breath heavy
or foetid, and tongue furred, with' disagreeable
taste, and a copious flow of saliva ; swelling of the
upper lip, bleeding of the nostrils, and disposition
to grind the teeth during sleep are other charac-
teristic symptoms. The effects, however, often
extend beyond the alimentary canal, and various
derangements of health are experienced inconse-
quence either of the direct irritation of the worms,
or of the disordered digestion which they occa-
sion. Among the most common of these are
nervous affections, such as fretfulness, irritation
of temper, wakefulness, or disposition to exces-
sive sleep, disturbed sleep, sudden starting out of
sleep, as if from fright, dizziness, spasmodic
movements of the eyelids, dilated pupils, per-
verted vision, temporary blindness and deafness.
General convulsions are. not infreciuent in chil-
dren, and symptoms strongly resembling “Water
on the Brain ” have been ascribed to worms and
have ceased on their expulsion.
Cases of St. Vitus’ dance, melancholia and ner-
vous diseases, and even insanity have been attri-
buted, with the most apparent reason, to the
same cause. In addition to these affections may
be mentioned obstinate cough, spasm of the
glottis, palpitation, languid circulation, pale and
yellowish skin, sunken eyes, a livid circle about
the eyelids, and a general emaciation. This con-
dition is often accompanied by fever, and is-then
called worm fever. Persons in apparently perfect
health may be afflicted with worms, and the only
symptoms may be periods of irritableness or a
constant desire for something to eat, which may
last for months until the system breaks down, and
the worms manifest their presence in some other
manner.
Worms have frequently heen described by
medical men as “The Children’s Enemy.” Un-
doubtedly there is no greater enemy to health,
happiness and comfort of children than the
presence of worms in the stomach and intes-
tines; causing an indescribable irritation and
gnawing in the bowels, which upsets its victim,
*mpairs the health, spoils the temper, and drives
the mother to distraction, and earns for the little
innocent the harsh and undeserved reputation of
being “a cross child.”
Unfortunately many mothers fail to recognise
the faet that their little ones are suffering intense
pain and distress, and-are practically irresponsible
for the outbursts of temper, restlessness and
peevishness, and until some more serious symp-
toms appear nothing is done to alleviate the dis-
tress. The symptoms of this disease are some-
what variable, but generally they are so charac-
teristic that no mother need have any doubts.
The best proof of worms is worms, and if the
general conduct of the child is such as to give the
slightest suspicion, an examination of the stools
(evacuation from the bowels) will afford ample
proof.
A child who is aff octet! with Thread Worms
will often appear to the eye to be in an indifferent
state of health. It becomes peevish and irritable
in its temper, and complains of itching of the nose,
whilst the same symptom may be very prominent
indeed in the lower part of the bowel. Another
point to which the attention of mothers should be
specially directed is that the child is apt to start
in its sleep, its repose being in this way of a dis-
turbed nature. Note also that many children who
are in the habit of wetting their beds do so by
reason of the irritation which these worms produce
in the body, the irritation extending to the bladder
and causing it involuntarily to part with its
contents.
In every heap of decaying matter there is al-
ways to be found a nest of worms. They breed
and multiply in impure matter. And so it is in
tlie human system. The accumulation of partially
digested food in the intestines, which becomes
putrid when the bowels arc* constipated, induces
the presence of worms. A few doses of Comstock’s
Dead Shot” Worm Pellets, followed by a dose
or two of Dr. Morse’s Indian Koot Pills, will dis-
turb them in their nest and drive them out of the
system.
Pin Worm, Thread Worm, or Seat Worm.
Is an Inhabitant of the Lower Bowel.
The Long Thread Worm measures from one
inch to two inches in length, the upper portion
being thin, and the lower two-thirds about twice
as thick. This variety also infests the large
intestines and the rectum.
The common Thread Worm derives its name
from its thread-like appearance. The average
length is about one-third of an inch, this descrip-
tion applying to the female worm. The male
worms are much smaller, and do not exhibit
half the length of the females. The favorite situ-
ation of the Thread Worm is the large bowel
which forms the terminal portion of the intestines.
These worms cause severe itching at the lower
passage and picking at the nose. Anaemia, rest-
lessness, irritability and loss of appetite are also
frequent symptoms. A child or adult so affected
can find no relief from the terrible itching, and
consequently becomes restless and upset at the
slightest provocation. A purgative medicine will
sometimes afford temporary relief by the expulsion
of some of the Worms congregated near the
rectum ; but the Worms multiply so quickly that
the trouble returns. To get rid of the Wornjsand
their eggs, their nests also must be removed, and
that requires a specific remedy. Comstock’s
“Dead Shot” Worm Pellets are unfailing in
their results.
Bound, or Stomach Worms.
The Round Worm in its appearance, save in
color of course, somewhat resembles the earth-worm
in shape. As in the case of the Thread Worms,
the female worm very much exceeds the male
worm in size. Whilst the Thread Worm inhabits
the large intestine of children, the Round Worm
is found in the small bowel, or that portion of the
intestine which immediately comes off from the
stomach and makes up the succeeding 20ft. in
length of the digestive tube. Adults, of course,
are frequently also affected with Round Worms,
and it may be added that they are also subject
to be troubled with Thread Worms. The danger
of the Round Worm appears to be that in some
cases the parasite has the habit of making its way
through the walls of the intestine. Occasionally
it will pass into the stomach from the bowel itself,
and it has also been known to cause liver troubles,
when one of these parasites has contrived to pass
from the bowel into the duct or tube which leads
the bile from the liver into the intestine.
If the worm penetrates from the bowel into the
general cavity of the belly, inflammation of a fatal
kind may be set up. The symptoms are very
much like those produced by the presence of the
'lhread Worm. In addition, however, a good
deal of thirst represented in patients, along with
a disturbance of sleep, with a debased appetite,
the patient developing a liking for all sorts of
strange and unwonted foods. Itching of the
nose may also be here a prominent symptom.
All Traces of Worms Eradicated.
Mrs. H. Campbell, Corbett Street, West End,
Brisbane, Queensland, writes: “My little girl,
aged five years, suffered from thread worms for
some months. I took her to the doctor, who pre-
scribed a syrup, but found it did not do much
good, as the symptoms still remained. I saw
Comstock’s ‘ Dead Shot’ Worm Pellets advertised,
and procured a packet, which proved very effec-
tual. They greatly relieved her and she immedi-
ately seemed to lose all trace of the trouble. The
dry cough and the restlessness at night and other
symptoms left her, and she is now in splendid
health. You may use this, if you wish, as a testi-
monial.”
Thread. Worms in a Child, also Adult.
“ My little girl, aged seven years,” writes Mrs.
A. Bristow, of 37 Regent-street, Sydney, “was
subject to Thread Worms, which caused her to be
peevish, irritable and restless at night, with a
voracious appetite, and I procured all sorts of
remedies for her, but without avail, until I saw
Comstock’s ‘Dead Shot’ Worm Pellets adver-
tised, and my husband told me to buy them. I
did so; and after she had taken one box and a
part of the second, all traces were eradicated,
having passed great numbers of them. Since then
a friend of mine who had suffered also from
Thread Worms for 20 years, enduring much dis-
comfort, rendering her pale, sallow and thin, and
which caused her much internal trouble with a
feeling of sickness, during this time using all sorts
of remedies such as turpentine and different Worm
Powders to remove them, without avail. At
length she was induced to try Comstock’s ‘ Dead
Shot’ Worm Pellets, and after taking the third
box (following the directions minutely) she was
pleased to find that the worms not only ceased to
trouble, but that all trace of them had left her,
that her health was returning, she was increasing
in weight and getting a better color. She cannot
speak too highly of them, and recommends them
to all whose children are suffering in this way.”
Child Alive with Worms.
Completely Relieved aftek Many So-stalled
Remedies Fail.
Mrs. M. Johnson, 135 Elizabeth-street, Wel-
lington, N.Z., writes : “Permit me to express my
grateful appreciation of the value of Comstock’s
‘ Dead Shot ’ Worm Pellets. My little girl, aged
three years, was very bad, continually picking her
nose, jumping about in her sleep at nights, and
she was afraid of being left alone, night or day.
My husband, after bringing home several different
so-called remedies and ‘certain cures,’ all of no
earthly good, decided to give Comstock’s ‘ Dead
Shot ’ Worm Pellets a fair trial. I smiled when I
saw what he had, as I was sick and tired of trying
to cure the poor child. After taking the first
dose the result was marvellous; she must have
been simply alive with worms. I continued the
treatment, giving her a pellet in the morning and
a teaspoonful of castor oil at night, and I am <
pleased to say that she is thoroughly cured, and
has had no return of the symptoms.”
Stomach and Thread Worms Expelled.
Mrs. Willmott, of Cooma, N.S.W., states: —
“Hearing about the wonderful success of your
Worm Pellets, I decided to give them a trial. I
gave my three children, Roy, Phyllis and Horace
a dose each, as they had all the symptoms of
Worms. The pellets were taken at 6 o’clock in
the morning, and at 10 o’clock Roy had passed a
Stomach Worm about 12 inches in length, and
the other children passed quite a number of Thread
Worms. Since taking the pellets the children
seemed greatly relieved, and appear to be better
in health. I shall always recommend them to my
friends, and you may use this testimony for publi-
cation in any way you please.”
The Use of Purgatives.
Although the use of medicines which are simply
purgatives may cause the discharge of some small
worms, such medicines are useless to thoroughly
eradicate the pest. Physics which do not kill the
worms and their eggs have no permanent results,
as the worms pass through the matter in the
intestines and reach the upper portion of the
bowels or the stomach, or fasten themselves to
the membranes of the intestines until the effect of
the purgative is over. Worms require a specific
medicine, and there is no remedy so effective as
Comstock’s “Dead Shot” Worm Pellets. They
kill the worms, destroy their eggs and dislodge
their nests.
Comstock’s “Dead Shot” Worm Pellets are a
scientific preparation, prepared in the form of a
sweet that children eagerly take. They are
packed in glass tubes with full directions in each .
and are for sale hy chemists and stores generally at
2s. 9d. per packet, or six packets for 15s. ; and if
unable to obtain locally, will be mailed post free
on receipt of price. Prepared only by The W.
H. Comstock Co., Ltd., 23 Lang-street, Sydney,
N.S.W. ; and Farish-street, Wellington, N.Z.
m Hi
II
m
m
wkvr
X?
Ws
£
r
m
a?
Wt
\
i'B
if
i&M
rfP 5
m
Cy
1
I MIN*
1
*•
<0
i-?
a
ypti
&
<V
?•:■■
M
>. %* -
*
Every Forty Seconds a Bottle of
DR. MORSE'S
INDIAN
ROOT PILLS
passes into the hands
of a Customer in
alone.
Nearly one
Million Bottles
sold annually
in A usiralasia.
: tm FAVOURITE RtMtIJY OP 'I
WOMEN OF THE HIGHEST TYPE-
DAY AND NIGHT, year in and year out, a bottle
of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills passes across the counter into
the hands of a customer. No other remedy has such a steady,
clock-like sale, which is the strongest evidence of the merits
of these Pills. They are not advertised as a great Cure-all,
but as a safe, sure and "reliable remedy for the Little Ills or
Life. For people who eat and drink too much and get their
digestive system out of order from any other cause, they are
unexcelled. They stand without a rival for Constipation, Bilious-
ness, Indigestion, Inactive Liver, and for all Female Ailments.
I
w>


V>he
‘Boulevard.
The Latest
and
Smartest.
ħ
Will not
slip at heel.
PRICES—
-14/6, 18/6 & 21
Pumps and low-cut Oxfords are the fashionable
Shoes for Women’s wear. The great objection to
pumps in the past has been that they would slip
off the heel.
THE “BOULEVARD,”
an entirely new style, is so cut that it cannot
slip. It is decidedly smart, and we guarantee it
to stay where it belongs.
Prices 14/6, 18/6 and 21/-
Postage in Victoria, 9d. ; other States, ]/- extra.
Gazeka Shoe Paste, in Black and
Brown. Large Tins 6d.
Write for our Booklet “Shoelight.”
LEEMING’S,
109 Swanston Street, Melbourne ;
257-259 Bourke Street, Melbourne;
303 Chapel Street, Prahran ;
1 & 3 Errol Street, Nth. Melbourne.
THE FOLLY OF DRUG
TAKING.
Do not take tonics for nervous breakdown.
There is only one way in which nervous breakdown
an be repaired, and that is by feeding the brain and
nerve centres with Lecithin in an active, organic form.
AN'TINEURASTIiIN does this, and actually builds up
the nervous system by administering to it its natural food.
If you suffer from brain fag, inability of concentration
of thought, want'of application, dyspepsia, indigestion,
neuralgia, headaches, languor and irritability, send to
the wholesale distributor for Australia and New Zealand,
H. A. Goddard, 96a Eagle Street, Brisbane, Q., or 194
Vickery’s Chambers, 82 Pitt Street, Sydney, enclosing
ninepence in stamp*, and a sample of Antineuiast.bin,
with pamphlet dealing with nervous troubles, will be
forwarded to you by return of post. [1
QREME LA FRANCE.
FRENCH LIQUID COSMETIC.
m
An Exquisite Lotion for Beau-
tifying and giving Tone and
Brilliance to the Com-
plexion. It is most
beneficial to those
whose skin is show-
ing a tendency to
become livid or dis-
colored. It softens
a hard, dry skin
Perfectly harmless
to the most delicate
skin. Price 2/6,
Posted 3/- Obtain-
, able from MADAME
LEIGH, Ladies’ Hair-
dresser and Hairworker,
23 The Block Arcade,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Wholesale : DUERDIN AND SALISBURY, Melbourne.
1
&
C
MnOUtfg
- iv*« nouini?
r VAN 1
HOUTEN'S
COCOA
The Standard
Cocoa of
the
World.
21
Add 1/- extra for Posting.
21 1-
ASpecial in High-Class
Footwear for a Guinea.
It is one of America’s Best Styles, and the
Famous George E. Keith Make; Selected Real
Glace Kid, shaped on the Latest Round Toe
Last, Hand-sewn, Special Bark-tanned Soles.
Specially cut to conform to the arch of the
foot and the shape of the instep—-thus giving
smartest and most comfortable fit.
EDWARD
FAY,
Corner Pitt and
Liverpool Streets,
and 716 George Street,
Hay market, SYDNEY.
More MilK
from the
“ABERDEEN”-Rugged
Cows !
’TTPfWI!.;
IT has been proved by Government test that
unrugged cows lose about 18% in milk
yield. Put the good, warm “Aberdeen”
Rugs on your cows, and you’ll get more milk.
Put them on your horses, and you’ll get more
work from them. These rugs are of ample,
good-fitting dimensions, and are strong
throughout. Patent snap surcingle fastens in
a moment, and can’t slip.
Sole Manufacturers:
Smith, Copeland
8 Co. Ltd.,
204-206 Clarence St., Sydney.
AGENTS:
VICTORIA: J. Bartram & Son, King
Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND : H. I. H. Ross,
Edward Street, Brisbane.
S. AUSTRALIA: C. Whiting, Currie
Street, Adelaide.
COLDS
SANACINE prevents the wasting and tearing of the Tissues that occurs in violent colds,
clears away the congested phlegm, and speedily allays irritation and inflammation of the
respiratory organs, and strengthens the linings of the throat and nose. Colds, Influenza,
Lung Weakness, Head and Chest Colds, throat weakness and more virulent forms
of colds immediately yield to the vigorous curative action of Sanacine. A few doses
taken in the early stages diminish the severity of an attack, and a rapid cure is assured.
h
Sanacine benefits
Russian Royal Family
A Court Official writes : "Sanacine was introduced
to the Russian Imperial Family, and they have found
great benefit from using it.”
ĥ
SANACINE
NATURES LUNG HEALER
An Invaluable Remedy for
COUGHS
COLDS
ASTHMA
BRONCHITIS
CATARRH
INFLUENZA
CONGESTION
HOARSENESS
HUSKINESS
SORE THROAT
WHOOPINQ COUGH
CHEST WEAKNESS
and all Disorders of the Lungs, Chest, and Throat.
Prices in Gt. Britain: Liquid and Tablets 1/1$ and 2/9. Sold by all Chemists, Stores, &c. in Australia.
Proprietors ASHTON & PARSONS, LIMITED. LONDON. E.C., ENGLAND
igSfc'dL
m
<HSH
SCIEMCE
behind it !
PEBECO is a complete scientific health
course for the mouth and teeth.
Its alkaline properties correct the acidity of
the saliva, prevent bafcterial inroads upon the
teeth and deodorise the breath. Pelteco imparts
a pearly whiteness, arrests decay, removes tartar,
and, by' invigorating the tissues, remedies shrink-
ing gums.
PEBECO
Tooth Paste
is highly antiseptic, and, if regularly used, pre-
vents many diseases of the mouth and throat.
Of all Chemists,, etc.
SOLE AGENT —
c ARNOLD, 6 O’Connell St., Sydney.
(Wholesale only.)
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No, notice (except of a hostile character) will he
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted, whether sent by post or handed
inj and no MS. will be returned unless stamps
(of arty State) accomnany.
F.G.S.: Not much substance in it and it
isn’t dished up very skilfully.... Seaman: You give
the much-abused Storm Fiend his due as a sports-
i man, anyhow :
The storm-fiend somewhat tiring
Is inclined to stay his breath —
He cannot help admiring
The good ship’s fight with death.
Rest of the poem is unoriginal and too full of
sunken reefs O’Flan: Sorry. It has some humor,
but the handling is far too rough. .. .H.A.N.: Very
labored Loxton: Move on! You are obstructing
the Inky Way C.W.E.: Both unfairly feeble
W.G.: It is not necessary to defend Edison at great
length against an attack by an obscure publication
which lives principally by small borrowings. Other
item is badly aimed. .. .8.W.W.: Don’t write any
more in pencil. (P.S. —Better not write in ink
either.) ... . Bellerive: Herewith the latest addition
to the All Red Series: —
VENGEANCE.
God protect me, cried a Woman
In fearful alarm,
, When a once sweetheart clutched
Hold of her arm,
You are mine and you’ll not live
To give birth to his child,
He fiercely resumed
In his frenzy Wild;
As the doomed creature trembled
In horror and fear,
I’ll cut your throat, he hissed,
From ear to ear;
He ydrew a razor and dealt
The death-dealing slash,
And lamrhed as the gore upon
His garments did splash.
With the brand of Cain
Upon his guilty Brow
He exclaimed Rich rival
You can have her now.
. ...G.D.N.: Cheerful shipboard jingle only. Practi-
cally no shore value. .. .Kellino : Unoriginal thought
rather dowdily attired.... W.H.L. : Unsuitable
E.G.S.: N 0.... Simon: Desperate rhyming. For in-
stance :
A dashing winsome lass is she
With a sparkling eye that match her
Arching brows and dimpled charms
Like the nut-brown hair that thatch her.
....James F.: Take Mary’s first and only speech:
“Not now,” she cried. “I couldn’t bear any more
of it! Not another word.” And after we had
plugged through the first three dull pages and hur-
riedly searched through the remaining 16, we under-
stood why, after firing off those remarks, she
“rushed wildly from the scene and came back no
more.”... .Moruya: Poem hurries along on wooden
legs. One verse: —
When pre-historical man was rife
A warrior died in the lust of strife,
Or a jester calmly departed this life,
Even as now did they then.
And both were buried, our scientists say.
In mode reflecting the thought of the day.
“Even as now did they then” isn’t so much a line
as a fatal accident... .W.R. (S.A.) : Simple imita-
tive bush rhvmes. No doubt the making of them
gave you pleasure... .G.B. (Q.): Cannot use any
of it... .F.G.8.: No bite. ... Bellubera: Hopeless...
W.E.8.: Very crude. .. .S.L.A.: You have a poor
armory of words, and you always contrive to select
the wrong weapon. It is a unique gift, but unpro-
fitable.... Spuds: Most refreshing. It expresses the
average man’s opinion admirably:—
Why can’t old George get made a king without this
i useless braying ?
The chaps who run the show can’t have much
sense;
Why don’t he shove it on his head and then just
stand up saying
“All come and have a beer at my expense” ?
S.M. (Java) : Unable to use it... .F.8.Q.: Your
St. Peter is a good soul, but much too prosy. The
sketch promised to be bright, but it ended' like a
curate’s first sermon.... Narruc: Destroyed... .A. 11.:
Ineffective curse Helen B.: Neither A.W.
(V.) : “Joe’s Mate” not well enough done
Ivareela: Unsuitable.... Dubbo: Leave it a10ne....
Yalg.: To ensure the rejection of paragraphs
The Bulletin has consistently advised correspond-
ents to write on both sides of the paper. Another
good plan is to write with faint pencil on “flimsy.”
Joseph W.: An old Yankee-paper idea
11.L.H.: Haven’t the space to acknowledge pars. If
they are accepted they are printed. If they are not
printed they are not accepted.... Tom Bourke of
Ours: Williamson’s co. played “The Girl from Kay’s”
at Melbourne in June, ’O4, and Sydney in August,
’O4.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CONTRIBUTORS.
J.O:S.: Some merit in drawing ; but subject poor.
....Fencer: You haven’t rammed this one home...
H. 0.: Let’s hear from you when you are 25....
Jonquil, M. A. 8.: Unsuitable W.B. (Hobart):
No good to us... .Simon P.: There’s hope in it....
J.D., Billabong, W. Car.: Old-age pensioners.
Barristers Tighe and Edwards have writ-
ten, and the Law Book Co. of Australasia
has published, the N.S.W. Workmen’s Com-
pensation Act, with a valuable index and an
informative introduction, expressing in plain
terms the effect of the provisions of the new
law.
From a man who is trying to keep cool :
The scientific world has generally got a bee of some
sort in its bonnet, and just now the stability of the globe
upon its axis is worrying it. For years there has been a
desire in France to let the Atlantic flow into the vast
depression of the Sahara, and, by creating a new sea,
open up a fresh region to white settlement. But a crowd
of trembling scientists recently arose in agitation and
vetoed the idea on the ground that the shock of the
Atlantic pouring into, roughly, a million and a half
square miles of depression, if it did not crack the earth’s
crust, would at least throw the globe off its axis, and, by
diverting the Gulf Stream, turn Scandinavia, Britain,
Holland, Belgium and north France into a new arctic
region. Now another scientist has awoke to the suspi-
cion that the axis is in trouble, anyhow, and that the
accumulation of ice at one end of the globe is getiing in
its work, and the tropical area and temperate regions are
shrinking rapidly. It was some such catastrophe which
is said to have overwhelmed and smashed up the old con-
tinent of Lemuria. When the polar accumulation of ice
and snow makes that portion of the globe heavier than
the centre, the idea is that the increase of weight will over-
come the momentum of the earth’s spin, whereupon the
whole show will turn half over, and the Pole will point its
vast mass of ice and snow at the sun, and then, when the
mass has been melted, the weary old globe will swing
back again, and resume business on the old lines. Still,
there’s a crumb of comfort to be got out of the fact that
there is some doubt whet her it will happen at all; and if
it does happen at all it probably won’t happen for
10,000,000 years—and to this pre-ent generation, at any
rate, there is at least half a crumb of comfort in that too.
From a wanderer in Paris :
France has at last ranged herself with the other Euro-
pean nations in adopting Greenwich mean-time, hut
hasn’t yet mustered enough courage to call it so—that
would be too severe a wound to Gallic amour propre. So
the designation is to be “ West-European time,” which is
officially explained to mean “ Paris time, less 9 minutes
and 21 seconds,” Paris being that much ahead of Green-
wich. It was odd to see, on the day after the change,
the two times side by side in the watchmakers’ windows.
All the available clocks were displayed ; those in the left
half of the window marked (say) 12. 9 and a fraction
(Paris time), while those in the right indicated noon
(Greenwich time).


THROW AWAY YOUR PIPE
■ AND
SMOKE MY CIGARS
I>VE knocked around a bit over Australasia in
my time—been in the back parts of pretty
well every State and New Zealand.
I’ve mixed with shearers and musterers and
rouseabouts at different sheds; been at cattle
camps in Queensland; up among the snow
country of Monaro - in the jarrah forests of
Westralia; in mining camps all over the Com-
monwealth; and everywhere Ive seen the boys
smoking their pipes—and seldom a sign of a
Cigar,
Then, I’ve pulled out my case and handed
some DIADEMAS around. And after all this,
people say to me—“ Oh, Australians won't smoke
Cigars!"
ħ
I do just get riled when I
hear this, I tell you that
nearly every pipe-smoker,
once he gets the taste of my
DIADEMAS Cigars, swears
by them. They knock pipe-
smoking hollow!
There’s nothing but To-
bacco in them—-and the best
Cigar Tobacco that is grown
—the wrapper, finest Java
leaf; and the inside filling,
allclean, straight , long Brazil.
They draw easily and burn
freely, for they are hand-
rolled by as good Cigar-
makers as there are any-
where in the world.
The boys out-back I've
given them to, as I said, just
swear by my Cigars, Men
in the Cigar trade here, too
—men with whom Cigar-
smoking is a life habit—come
to me and say—“ Look here,
those Cigars of yours are
better than any we can get
in the city. Let us have a
box as a favor."
Now, I want you to try
my Cigars —at my ex-
pense.
I want to convert you from
the pipe to Cigars—to my
Cigars. All I want isfor you
to buy my Cigars as against
your pipe and favorite to-
bacco —and I know you'll be
a regular customer of mine.
I'll post a box of ioo DIADEMAS right to
your address for 22/6. Smoke 5 or 6of them,
and if they’re not as good as the best 6d. Cigar
you can buy send the rest of the Cigars back,
and I’ll return every penny of your money. I’ll
maim no deduction for the Cigars you’ve smoked
There’s no funny business about this offer,
mind. I’ll keep to every word of it, and there’ll
be no “back answers” if you want your money
back. If you want to know the kind of man
you’re dealing with, write to the General
Manager, the ■ Commercial Bank, Melbourne,
and he’ll tell you I’m a clean, straight chap in all
my dealings,
Send 22 16 to-day, and get the box of 100
DIADEMAS by return post. In ordering, say
Whether you like the mild, medium, or strong
grade.
My Only Address is
LOUIS KAUFFMANN
34 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE
Illustrated Descriptive Booklet will be
Mailed Free to any address.
RD
When Marketing
do not forget the
BIRD’S CUSTARD
Powder the busy
howsewife’s never-
failing resource;
BIRD’S CUSTARD
with STEWED or
CANNED FRUITS
forms an Exquisite
Dish.
Birds
Custard s*oujd6F
h
ĥ
ħ
a~
Q
Medium Sized Women
The La Diva Corset No. 718 which is here
illustrated is unequalled for short and medium figures,
especially those requiring short boned corsets. It
increases the apparent height, giving to the figure a
graceful, svelte appearance, and insuring the proper
set of the gown. While snug and cosy, the fit is
so perfect that absolute comfort is achieved with it.
Wherever well-gowned women are seen, at the
theatre, at dinners, at balls, etc., you may be sure
that many of them owe their chic appearance largely
to a La Diva Corset.
You should ask your draper to show you
these Canadian Corsets.
DOMINION CORSET CO., QUEBEC, Canada,
21-11 Makers of the famous DA A Canadian Corsets.
7ia
SENSATIONAL TERMS!-
SUBDIVISION OF THE FAMOUS and WELL-KNOWN
Felton E-state
DARLING DOWNS, QUEENSLAND
For 25 Years the home of the late HON. JAS. TYSON, M.L.C., the
place which he called “ THE GARDEN OF AUSTRALIA,” situated
close to the Sydney-Brisbane Railway Line, 18 miles South of Toowoomba
Comprising' 34*500 Acres Freehold
WILL BE SOLD BY AUCTION AT
CAMBOOYA, on THURSDAY, 29th JUNE, 1911
At 1 p.m., on arrival of the Brisbane Mail Train.
In blocks of from 80 to 3,000 Acres (which includes the Homestead Portion).
Southbrook Raifway Station only 3 miles from the Estate, Broxburn Rail-
way Station 4 miles, Pittsworth Railway Station 5 miles, Cambooya Railway
Station 6 miles, Greenmount Railway Station 4 miles, Nobby Railway Station
6 miles, and Clifton Railway Station 10 miles.
Cheese and Butter Factories at Pittsworth and Southbrook. Butter Factory
at Clifton, and Cheese Factories at Cambooya and Greenmount.
This is, without doubt, the best property on the Darling Downs, and was one
of the earliest properties made Freehold by the late Hon. Jas. Tyson when he
had the pick of the whole of the Country.
The whole of the Estate is admirably adapted for Dairying, LUCERNE
GROWING, Maize, Wheat, Barley, Oats and Potatoes, and a large area
of the country is ready for the plough.
Ideal Fattening, Breeding, and Lamb-raising Country.
Watered by Hodgson’s Creek, a never failing stream running through the
centre of the Property.
Subartesian Water easily obtained all over the Property at from 30 to 80 feet.
Rainfall averages over 30 inches per annum.
NOTE THE REMARKABLE TERMS.
TERMS :-15 Per Cent. DEPOSIT, NO FURTHER PRINCIPAL FOR
10 YEARS at buyer’s option; Interest at 5 per cent, payable half-yearly.
Recognised Agents, buying for or influencing buyers to purchase, will
receive one-half commission.
NO STATE LAND TAX.
Facilities to inspect, and for further information, lithographs, etc., apply to
Felton Estates Office, Cambooya, or
THE AUSTRALIAN ESTATES & MORTGAGE CO. LTD.
Auctioneers, BRISBANE. Q.
h
The World’s Standard
Valveless Engine.
THE life history of a FERRO ENGINE would be
very interesting were we to follow it from its
embryonic stage on the blue prints of the
designers, through the various phases of infantile
life, till it emerges from the factory to be transported
to some particular spot on old mother earth, to fulfil
its destiny as the WILLING SLAVE OF INDUSTRY.
From icy pole to torrid zone, from far=off Alaska
to Australia, the sun never sets on the “ FERRO.”
THE CURSE OF ADAM has no terrors for the
men who own them. A man must needs sweat, but
he can sweat to better advantage than by yanking a
saw, pump handle or chaff cutter. Turn these jobs
over to the “ FERRO ” ; they are built to do them.
If you do not happen to own one, get busy and
write the nearest agent, who will be only too happy
to suggest the right sweat=preventer for the job.
Made in the following sizes suitable for
Stationary, Portable or Marine use:
3,4, y/ 2 , VA, 8,11,12,15,17, 25 H.P.
FERRO AGENTS:
Hall Bros., Druitt St, SYDNEY.
Acme Motor & Eng. Co., 355 Lonsdale St., MELBOURNE.
Howard Motor & Cycle Co., Queen St., BRISBANE.
F. J. Langley, Torrens St. E., ADELAIDE.
Perth Motor House, Hay St., PERTH.
Wearne & Ceard, LAUNCESTON.
Hayward & Carrett, Stuart St., DUNEDIN.
H. T. Whitson & Co., Customs St. W., AUCKLAND
H. T. Moors, APIA, SAMOA.
wmmm
m
'■ /
■
HI i
These pictures show our
Famous Post-hole Digger in operation.
Note the ease with which post-holes can
be bored. The back-racking, slow: and
laborious method of crowbar and shovel
are now superseded by the ideal met hod
—not hard work, but easy, quick and
more satisfactory results at less expense.
The price is
15/3.
It enters hard earth easily—
has an expansion blade —will hold fine
dry sand—does not bind in the hole—
—opens to discharge—bores seven
sizes of holes, 8 to 14 inches in
diameter, 3J feet deep. It is strong-
will stand rough wear.
John Cooper
and Sons,
Melbourne’s Biggest Ironmongers,
287-9 ELIZABETH STREET ,
MELBOURNE.
£11 EAP, Second-Hand 15 Break H.P.
TANQYE GAS ENGINE,
IN GOOD ORDER.
Apply Manager, “BULLETIN” OFFICE,
214 George Street, Sydney.
“LINSEED COMPOUND.”— The “Stockpor*
Remedy ” for Coughs & Colds. Of 40 years’ proven efficacy


\
Motor Overcoats.
PERDRIAU MOTOR OVERCOATS are made
to give' the fullest measure of satisfaction
in warmth, comfort, appearance and ser-
vice. Get one».of these superb Coats :
PERDRIAU MOTOR OVERCOATS, made of
Best Quality, Heavy Irish Friezes, Bannock-
burn Tweeds and Worsteds in Dark Shades
and Good Patterns. Cut full, with latest
style innovations, and double-breasted.
PRICE:
With Loose Fleece Dining ..£4/10/-
With Soft Heather Lining £5/5/-
VVith Soft Heather Detachable Lining £6/6/-
LADIES’ MOTOR OVERCOATS from 50/-
to 105/-
Let us fit you with one of these Cods to-day,
or order by mail, stating your height and easy
chest measurement to ensure a correct fit.
We pay postage on all Overcoat orders.
Write for a copy of our Illustrated VVinter Price
List and Sample Book of Materials. They are free.
PERDRIAU RUBBER CO., LTD.,
“The Best House for all Rubber Goods,"
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Amusement
Town hall, Sydney.
Direction DR. CHARLES HARRISS.
THE FAMOUS SHEFFIELD CHOIR.
.. “The Messiah”
“ Festival Concert ”
“ Dream of Gernntius ”
&“ Blest Pair of Sirens”
“Beethoven Concert ”
“Golden Legend ”
.. .. “Elijah”
Miscellaneous
Coronation Concert
Tuesday Evening, June 13
Wednesday Evening, June 14
Thursday Evening, June 15
Friday Evening, June 16.. “ Pan
Saturday Afternoon, June 17
Saturday Evening, June 17
Monday Evening, June 19..
Tuesday Afternoon, June 20
Tuesday Evening, June 20
PRICES —10/6. Reserved Plan now open at Paling’s.
7/6. Reserved Plan opening Monday, June 5.
Unreserved—s/- and 2,6.
m H. N. SOUTHWELL, c/o W. H. Paling & Co. Ltd.
Melbourne repertory theatre.
Director: Greqan McMahon.
INAUGURAL PERFORMANCES:
JUNE 26, JULY 3—“ THE TWO MR. WETIIERBYS ”
and “ THE CRITIC.”
JUNE 29, JULY 6-“ JOHN GABRIEL BORKMAN,”
At the TURN YEREIN HALL.
Tickets, 45., 35., Is. 6d. : Sets of Six Tickets, 215., 155.,
6s. ; on sale at Allan’s and Book Lovers’ Library.
BOX PLAN at ALLAN’S, JUNE 22. Prospectus on
application at Oxford Chambers, Bourke Street.
Amtisments.
Lyric and colonial theatres
Nos. 1 and 2, George Street, Sydney.
Direction J. D. Williams.
PERPETUAL MOTION from 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
PATRONISED BY 60,000 PEOPLE WEEKLY.
Run Under the Continuous Show System now the Rage
of England and America.
English and American Prices of Admission.
Same Prices at Each Theatre :
STALLS 3d. DRESS CIRCLE 6d.
ENTIRE CHANGE OF PROGRAMMES TWICE
WEEKLY: MONDAYS and THURSDAYS.
Afternoon Tea is Popular. Afternoon Pictures are the
Rage.
We Cater Specially for Ladies and Children During
Morning and Afternoon Sessions.
Ladies’ Retiring Rooms and Lady Attendants.
If it is to be seen anywhere you will see it at our
Theatres.
THE WORLD IN MOTION.
We want you to compare our Programmes and our
Theatres with others which charge twice our prices of
Admission.
THE GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS
AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
INTER NAT I ONAL PICTURES. COLONIAL
THEATRE BUILDINCS, 610 George Street, Sydney.
Mr. W. J. Morgan, General Manager.
This Company supplies the Lyric and Colonial Theatres
with all their photo plays, and also supplies the leading
photo play concerns throughout Australasia. In fact,
we supply more shows with pictures than any other
three (3) concerns combined.
Don’t forget, Mr. Showman, to write or call.
We haxe the money-getters. We do not represent any
one firm of photoplay manufacturers, but we represent
all the best. WE HAVE THOUSANDS OF EXCLUSIVE
SUBJECTS-EVERY ONE A WINNER.
Branches: Sutton Buildings, Melbourne; Courier Build-
ings, Brisbane; Wellington, New Zealand; London,
England : Dewar House, Haymarket.
Just addrayer’your wire to “ International Pictures.”
That’s sufficient.
| V O L I T HEAT R i, SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietor & Manager —Mu. Harry Rick ards
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS
THE SEVEN PEREZOFFS, Comedy Jugglers.
EUNICE and ZENA, Instrumentalists and Vocalists
COLUMBIA COMEDY TRIO, Burlesque Operatic Vocalists
MDLLK. BLANOHECHARMEROY, Parisian Comedienne
THE KAVANAGII BOYS, Novelty Club Jugglers and
Racquet Spinners. SCOT GIBSON, Scotch Comedian.
CADWELL & VERNE, English Comedy Sketch Artists
And a GREAT COMPANY of Established Favorites.
PRICES—3s., 2s. and Is. Plan at Paling’s.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Hurry Rickards.
BLACK and WHITE Lady Acrobats.
KELDINE and KLIMO, Comedy Trick Cylists.
MR. R. A. ROBERTS, Protean Actor in Ringing
the Changes.
PEGGY PRYDE, Comedienne.
FRED BLUETT, Comedian.
Plan at Allan's. JST PRICES—Ss., 25.. Is.
•yH E ATR E ROY AL, MELBOU R N E.
EVERY EVENING,
CLARKE AND MEYNELL’S GREAT
DRAMATIC PRODUCTION,
THE WOMAN IN THE CASE.
Plans at Allan’s. PRICES AS USUAL.
BOOKS WORTH READING. The new
guide to the new fiction appears in each
issue of The Lone Hand.
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY'S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee aiul Manager: J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45 SHARP.
Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON presents
“The Greatest of all Pantomimes,”
JACK AND THE BEANSTALK
PLAN AT PALING’S.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Lessee & Manager .. J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.50,
Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON presents
THE NEW COMIC OPERA COMPANY in the Most
Exhilarating Musical Play of Many Seasons,
THE DOLLAR PRINCESS.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Prices as usual.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee: FRANK MUSGROVE.
A SUCCESS OF PLAY AND PLAYERS.
CLARKE AND MEYNELL’S NEW OPERA COMPANY
in that Notable Musical Success,
THE GAY GORDONS.
Box Plan at ELVY’S. PRICES AS USUAL.
DELPHI THEATRE, SYDN E Y.
Direction and Management, Gkokgk Marlow, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING, AT 7.50,
UNDE It TWO ELAGS.
Special Dramatic Adaptation of “ Ouida’s ” World Famous
Novel ON A SCALE OF UNPRECEDENTED SPLENDOR.
Interpreted by the full strength of GEORGE M ARLOW’S
BRILLIANT DRAMATIC COMBINATION.
See Cigarette’s Famous Ride in full view of the audience
on real Arab Horse. POPULAR PRICES —35., 2s. & Is.
Box Plan at Elvy’s and Theatre.
ĥ
»
ff
ieuii:
Town hall, Sydney.
EVERY EVENING AT 8 P.M.
FINAL, PERFORMANCES.
SYDNEY SEASON POSITIVELY CLOSES SATURDAY,
JUNE 3. Prices—s/-, 3/-, 2/-
ME LYCEUM
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Mati nets -Wednesdays . Saturdays and Holidays at 2 30.
C PENCERStiTfATREKOPt (p.
J PICTURES
« *RE SUPERIOR ro ALL OTHER'S.
Popular Prices Plan at PAHNoa,
New princess theatre
(Late BIJOU, next to Glaciarium).
Also PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
COLOSSAL PEOPLE S ENTERTAINMENTS BY
WEST’S PICTURES, LTD.
“BEST OF ALL.”
FAMILY M ATTN EES—WEDNESDAY, 2.30. '
DE GROEN’S VICE-REGAL ORCHESTRAS.
6d. to 2/- Plan at Nicholson’s (Fee, 6d. extra).
A N Australian’s Two Hands—THE LONE
HAND and THE BULLETIN. You can’t
do without either, and they both cost the same.
Amusements.
‘HE KING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager : William Anderson.
A GREAT SUCCESS.
WM. ANDERSON’S NEW DRAMATIC ORGANISATION,
in the New and Original London Drama,
The EXECUTIONER’S DAUGHTER
Box Plan at Allan's.
PRICES—Ss., 2s. and Is.
LJER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
* * Lessee and Manager: J. C. Williamson, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING, >.
Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON presents
OU It MISS GIBBS.
By an Exceptionally Strong Cast.
Plan at Allan’s.
p RIN C ESS’S
PRICES—S/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/-.
THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING. MATINEE WEDNESDAY.
REGINALD WYKEHAM’S NEW COMPANY OF
COMEDIANS,
including MISS CELIA G HILO NT and
I MISS MAUD CHETVVYND,
in the Joyous Whirl of Fun,
SEVIS i\ DAYS.
PRICES AS USUAL. Plan at Allan’s.
HIEST'S PALACE, MELBOURNE.
the best WEST’S PICTURES, THK best
of ALL. LIMITED. OF ALL.
Managing Director: Mr. T. J. Wkst.
NIGHTLY AT 8.
Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays & All Holidays at 2.30.
Tub Grkatkst Pictorial Entbrpkisb in tiib World.
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
Any Moving Picture Worthy of Note always to be seen at
WEST’S PICTURES. Complete Change every week.
Prices—6d. to 2s. Box Plan at Glen's.
HE
GLACIARIUM, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J.fcN.TAIT’S
PICTURES.
ALL THE LATEST PICTURES from Europe & America.
A COMPLETE CHANCE WEEKLY. Prices—2/-, 1/6,
1/-, 6d. Matinees— Wednesday. Saturday, All Holidays.
IRTHS OLYMPIA.
EVERY EVENING AT 6
Mati MEE3 -Wednesdays . Saturdays and Holidays at 2 30
SPENCER-SIfEATOtSCOPE^.
PICTURES
» PRE SUPERIOR. TO P/.L OTHERS
Popular Prices —»- Plan as Usual-^I
Lyric THEATRE, Chapel Street, Prahran, Vic.
EVERY NIGH Tat 8. MATINEE, SATURDAY, at 2.30
THE FAMOUS “ NON-FLICKER ”
PHOTOPLAYS
on Lae Murveilnus ‘ Alack " screen, togewier uiwi the
Superb LYRIC ORCHESTRA. 6d. to 2s. Plans at
Allan’s, C. M. Read’s and the Lyric Theatre Caf6.
Australian Magazine. THE LONE
M HAND, the National Monthly. Price 6d.
Parrot
Brand
t recistep^d^A.
BOSISTO’S PARROT BRAND
EUCALYPTUS OIL
Used by all
Athletes. X®
Parrot
Brand
HtCISTfcRrD
Refuse all substitutes
that may be offered.
if#
'*> ■' *■. &IV7 -vl-f; ' ». • ' yp&jffljSk
¥ *im at-k ;“
:
msm
'mm
. '
mm
m
m
mm
'■:■'
M
*. aly-|H
, tig;
'sT'. <■
m
MM
m
MM
m
I
m
m
M
■
i
m-:-
>;/*■•:
a
Insist upon having
Bosisto’s “Parrot Brand.”
Bosisto’s “ Parrot Brand” Eucalyptus Oil, the famed remedy for Rheumatism,
Sprains, Bruises, Wounds, Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis.


DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original and Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
-1/IJ, 2/9 & 4/6
h
Checks and
arrests Fever,
Croup, Ague.
The Best
Remedy
known for
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS.
Acts like a charm in
DIARRHOEA, and is the only
specific in CHOLERA and DYSENTERY.
Preeminent
as the Queen of Dress Fabrics is the
LOUIS
VELVETEEN,
with all its charming lustrous
finish; draping exquisitely to suit
the clinging fashions of the day—
yet sold at a price within the
reach of all.
DO NOT TOLERATE A SUBSTITUTE.
Every Yard you buy
should be stamped L’O’U'l'S
ENO S ‘FRUIT SALT’
A HOUSEHOLD REMEDY FOR
All Functional Derangements of the Liver, Tempo-
rary Congestion arising from Alcoholic Beverages,
Errors in Diet (Eating or Drinking), Biliousness,
Sick Headache, Giddiness, Vomiting, Heartburn,
Sourness of the Stomach, or Constipation. It is
a Refreshing and Invigorating Beverage, most
Invaluable to Travellers, Emigrants, Sailors, and
Residents in Tropical Climates.
Eno’s ‘FRUIT salt’ assists the Functions of the Liver, Bowels, Skin, and Kidneys
by Natural Means. There is no doubt that, where it has been taken in the earliest
stages of a disease, it has, in innumerable instances, prevented a serious illness.
CAUTION. - Examine the Capsule and see that it is marked ENO'S ‘FBUIT SALT,'
otherwise you have the sineerest form of flattery —IMITATION.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO Ltd., ‘FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, London,
S.E., Eng., by J. C. ENO’S Patent.
Sold by Chemists and Stores everywhere.
Uv
m
I MEARNE S 1
BRONCHITIS CURE
.NO.IA
. FORCOUCH^
Convalescent!!
rOLOSO/ -v ?
SJ ASTxn* iM
W.CHEABN&
f.r-
2t*'v
A.; 4 -*'•'.*
■*©s*A
CTLV.
<iN%r
ift?
82
«V*'
W?
■Hr-j
P*i
The Great Healer
ij
i Mll
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure
For many years now Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure has been carrying its healing influence
into the homes of the people in all parts of the Commonwealth, giving relief to sufferers from
Bronchitis, Coughs, Croup, Asthma, Hoarseness, etc., effecting complete cures and doing the
good work necessary to ensure a permanent recovery.
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure will be found most comforting in allaying irritation in the
throat, giving strength to the voice and in preventing coughs or asthma developing the chronic
#
stage that leads to serious forms of chest disease,
At this particular season of the year Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure should be kept in readiness
in every home. One dose taken in good time will safeguard you from the troublesome and
mischievous illnesses that threaten even the healthiest and strongest people during the
Winter months,
Call at the first Chemist’s on your way home to-night and get a bottle of this famous remedy.
Sold by all Chemists and Medicine Vendors and
W. G. Hearne 81 Co. Ltd., Geelong, Victoria.


SURE CATCH” is Undoubtedly THE Fishing Tackle to Use.
“ SURE CATCH ” is the Tackle of DISTINCTION, QUALITY and RENOWN. It has stood the Test for Y ears, thus Proving its ABSOLUTE RELIABILITY.
It is used by the Most Prominent Anglers of the day, and CANNO I Bb bACbLLbu.
“BIG FISH” TACKLE SPECIALITIES.
RODS.
Extra Ouality Split Cane Rods, 2 joints, 2 tops, steel centre, double-
handed cork srrip, strong porcelain rod and end rings, best bronzed
suction ferrules, double brazed, highly finished. Excellent value. A
perfect “ Big Pish ” Rod. 7* feet, 57/6 each ; 8£ feet, 62/6 each.
Rod A—Very Superior “Big Fish” Rod, made of mottled cane, 3
joints, 2 greenheart tops, one top spliced with whalebone and fitted
with pulley end ring, double swelled grip, hardened snake rings,
solid winch fittings, extra strong ferrules, double brazed and rubber
button. This rod has been made to our own special instructions.
9 feet, 35/- each ; 10 feet, 37/6 each.
Rod B—The “Queensland” Rod, feet, 4 joints, 2 tops, made of
best seasoned greenheart, lock joints, double brazed, porcelain
bridge and end rings, hardened snake rings, and rubber button,
30/= each.
For EXCELLENCE and STERLING WORTH “ SURE CATCH ” Fishing
Tackle is ABSOLUTELY UNRIVALLED, as ISTESTIFIED by the EVER
INCREASING CROWD of SATISFIED and APPRECIATIVE ANGLERS
from near and far.
REELS.
No. 3C— Nottingham Wood Reels, aluminium lining and flange,
solid brass star back, movable check, very strong line guard. A
perfect reel for “ Big Fish.” 5 inch, 22/6 ; 6 inch, 27/6 ;6t inch,
30/- each.
REELS (continued).
No. s—The New “ Lockfast” Tension Big Fish Reels, aluminium
lining and flange, solid brass star back, optional check brass
handle plates. A splendid reel. 4 inch, 18/6; 5 inch, 20/-;
6 inch, 25/= each. „ , „ . . , . , . ,
No. 16—Finest Quality Metal “ Big Fish Reels, nickel-plated
rims and bars, mutiplyingf action, leather thumb brake for checking 1
speed, steel pivots, optional check, interleaved with aluminium,
which greatly strengthens the reel and reduces the weight,
3b inch, 35/-'; 4 inch, 45/-
The MORE CRITICAL the ANGLER, the MORE EMPHATIC is HIS
APPRECIATION of “ SURE CATCH” FISHING TACKLE. THE
TACKLE that CANNOT BE SURPASSED.
SPINNING BAITS.
M.S. Perfect Spinners, a splendid spinner for all same fish. Sizes—
-3b inch, 3/3 each ; 4 inch, 3/9 each.
No. 23—M.S. Paragon Spinners, made specially to our own order,
and can be had in the following sizes : 3 inch, 2/6 ; 3J inch, 3/= ;
4 inch, 3/6 ; 5 inch, 4/6 each.
No. 3—Extra Heavy Spoon Baits, scaled back, red inside, mounted
with extra strong swivels, split rings, and 'treble hooks. An excel-
lent bait. 3 inch, 2/- ; 3b inch, 3/; 4 inch, 3/6 each. *
»o. 4_Best Quality Ring-mounted Devon Balts, xx heavy and
very strong ; specially made for Big Fish.
3 inch, 2/9 ; 3b inch, 3/3; 4 inch, 3/9 each.
hold the foremost reputation for all Angling Requisites.
Give us a Trial and be Convinced.
WIRE. TRACES.
“ Tiger ” Traces, made from hand-twisted, flexible steel wire. A Trace
of enormous strength. Size X, 1/9 each; Size Y, 2/3 each.
No. I—Steel Wire Traces, 1J yards long, 9d. each.
No. 2—“ Hercules ” Big Fish Wire Gimp Traces, extra special
quality, 1 yard, 9d. ; 1J yards long, 1/3 each.
LINES.
The “ Zenith ” Plaited Flax Lines, made from best quality material,
and are splendid lines for all “ Big Fish.” To be had in lengths of
100 and 200 yards. No. 3, 6/6 ; No. 2, 6/9 ; No. 1, 7/=.
No. l/o, 7/6 ; No. 2/o, 8/= per 100 yards.
CUT THIS OUT.
FILL IN THIS COUPON with, your name and address , and
vie will forward you by RETURN OP POST a copy of our
AUSTRALASIAN FISHING TACKLE CATALOGUE , the
RESTAND LARGEST TACKLE LIST EVER PUBLISHED.
The talk of the Angling world. Full of useful information.
Name
Address
Rui.lf.tin, May 4.
MICK SIMMONS LTD.,
The Largest and Most Progressive Fishing Tackle House.’
Head Depot
Haymarket, Sydney, N.S.W.
Peter Pen Tells You The
ONOTO Pen Never Leaks
“ It’s true.
“ Everyway, anyway, however carelessly you carry it—the Onoto never leaks—
never soils—never spoils.
“And it is so easy to fill —it fills itself in a flash from any ink supply.
“ As for writing—it’s the perfect pen—and it’s British made.
“ Did you say you wanted one with just the nib to suit your hand ?
“ Get one to-day—and as sure as my name is Peter Pen you’ll thank me when
I said to you ‘ Get an
a
4
V 4
m
Price 12/- and upwards from all stationers,
jewellers and stores.
Booklet about the Onoto Pen free
on application to —
Thos. De La Rue <fc Co., Ltd.,
194, Bunhill Row, London, E C.,
or the Australasian Representative
Norman Baker, 50 York Street,
Sydney.
IMPORTANT.—For those who require
a larger pen with a very flexible nib, a
special model —the new “G”—has been
put on the market. It is exceptional value
for the money. Try this new “G ” at
your stationers. ’
Onoto
Pen
Self-Filling - -
Safety Fountain
Ask your stationer
for ONOTO INK
best for fountain
and all other pens.
Schute, Bell &Co.
_J limited
Wool Stores: Central Wharf. Produce Stores:
Quay. Offices :44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Do not sell Fat Stock,
but only Wool, Sheepskins,
Hides, Tallow, etc., and
Marsupial & Rabbit Skins.
Each head of the Company a worker
in the interests of their constituents.
Proceeds protected Trust Account
Bank of N.S.W.
STEVENS
MAYNARD JR. RIFLE NO. 15.
ĥ
ħ
Measures 33 inches over all. Weighs pounds. “ Take Down” Feature.
Chambered for .22 Long Rifle —will also shoot C. B. caps and
.22 Short R. F. and .22 Long R. F. cartridges.
Ask your Dealer.
Insist on
STEVENS.
Write for Catalogue to
ARTHUR H. HILL, Australian Represent-
ative for Stevens Arms and Tool Co.,
Box 86, G.P.0., Adelaide, S. Australia.
Send for latest Fire-
arm, Telescope and
Stevens-Pope Cata-
logues. [9
h
HOTELKEEPERS !
We will Accept Half Your Present
Monthly Cordial Bill in Payment
of an AUSTRAL PLANT.
PERFECT SODA WATER for Jd. per Dozen 1
GINGER ALE and LEMONADE at 3d!
3000 MACHINES IN DAILY USE.
A Postcard will bring our latest Catalogue, post free.
ECRERSLEY 8 SONS, 3 Bond Street, Sydney.
Queensland Agents—ELLIOTT, DONALDSON & DOUGLAS,
108 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Important to Advertisers!
Seen the Statutory Declaration of the Circulation of
THE LONE HAND ? it appears in the May issue.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
HOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
graving's, new 1908 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrib
England, 6d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, is.
llow to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, ls3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Quadrille Call Book,
2s. Adventures of a Flirt, Is. 3d. Parlor Tricks
and Games, Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
l 8 2d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is 2d post.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Baris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ss. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God ’and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain for the
British, 6d. How to Read Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, ls6d.
ĥ
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
prBOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &e., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Plat Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made EASy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d.
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougall Topped the Score, &
Other Verses, Is 3d. The Gay Count, Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. IPT" Established 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT.
4
Write for my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. Hew Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
Is. Odd Busii Songs, Is 3d post. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 9 2 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions of the Ring,
Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. 6d. Secret
History Court op England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. 'Vest Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post.
Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy. Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.


■CONSTIPATION
Health Completely Shattered —Suffered Terrible
Agony—Hospital Treatment Failed to Cure—A
Busy Housewife’s Gratitude.
“I was a most terrible sufferer from con-
stipation,” says Mrs. G. England, of No. 1
Avon Place, off Haines Street, North Mel-
bourne, “ which brought on severe headaches
and torturing indigestion, and I owe my
deepest gratitude to that grand family
medicine, Bile Beans, for my wonderful
recovery.
“ I was so bound up with constipation that
I had to go into the hospital, and they
treated me there with various medicines,
but failed to give me any relief.
“ The indigestion inflicted terrible tortures.
The pains in my chest were awful, and a sensa-
tion as of a large lump would settle there and
make life really a perfect burden. Then I would
get a short, sharp pain in the left side, like a stab
from a knife, the suddenness of which would make
me gasp. Violent headaches used to nearly rack
my head to pieces, and I lost my appetite com-
pletely, and became very thin.
“It was at this time that my attention was directed
to Bile Beans. My mother had some time since
llfc#Tli.l
fa
! MRS. ENGLAND,
5 who tells of her wonder-
l ful cure by Bile Beans.
used this splendid medicine for her complaints, and the thorough and
perfect manner in which they cured her we regarded as really marvellous;
so I thought I could not do better than adopt my mother’s remedy and try
Bile Beans. I did so, and have been richly rewarded for the trouble, for
Bile Beans at once broke down the constipation and regulated the bowels ;
removed the pains in the chest; the heavy, distressing feeling, as from a
weight, disappeared ; the dizziness, to which I was previously a great
victim, ceased to prostrate me ; and my appetite began to return. It was
simply wonderful the relief Bile Beans gave me, and, persevering with
them, the unpleasant and painful symptoms gradually died away, and I
began to feel my health rapidly returning. After undergoing a full and
thorough course of Bile Beans I was completely cured of the constipation,
indigestion and headaches, and able to eat and enjoy my meals as of old.”
THE STANDARD FAMILY MEDICINE.
He
eans
Bile Beans are a
natural and proved
remedy for indiges-
tion, biliousness, liver
trouble, constipation,
flatulence, stomach
disorders, bad breath,
piles, colds, rheu-
matism, liver chill, in-
fluenza, general de-
bility, loss of energy,
anaemia, tack of am-
bition and all female
ailments. Of all chem-
ists and stores at 1/1J
and 2/9 per box.
NATURE’S REMEDY.
Beauty’s Favourite.
The article which excels all others
in improving the beauty of the sKin
is naturally and deservedly beauty’s
favourite. This has been the
acknowledged and honoured
position held by Pears’ Soap for
nearly 120 years. It won, and has
maintained that position by virtue
of its complete purity, and by the
possession of those special emollient
properties which soften, refine,
and impart natural colour to the
sKin. No other soap possesses
these qualities in such a pre-
eminent degree as
PEARS
Matchless for the Complexion.
Doubt.
[FOR THE BULLEITN.]
HERE is the ti-tree glade again
That bore the blasts of centuries,
And from the stress and war and pain
Grows bloom and beauty for the bees !
Below the ribboned capeweed spreads
Riping new seed for newer springs—
And honey that the pollen sheds
A lawn of starry saffron things.
The wattle-golds o’erareh the track;
The honeysuckle’s golden lamps
Light all her palace green, and back
Reflect the un-dried dews and damps.
Green tents, whereof the kingpoles are
The fluted columns of the trees ;
A domed cathedral leaf and star —-
High built above the tranquil seas.
White boats that arch like a white bow
Upon the shield of ruffled steel
Below, where swallows come and go
And stately seabirds slowly wheel.
Flute of the magpie, blackbird’s lilt,
Song of the high, ambitious lark,
Call of the robins that have built
In the wood’s coolest, greenest dark.
All the new beauties new Spring hath
Of calyx, pistil and raceme —
The coppice and the dewy rath- —
The dappled shadow and the gleam.
The ti-tree bloom, the wattle’s tross ;
The broad awns of the nodding grass;
S:> new they but revive the loss
It is to know that all things pass.
For life is dead when youth is dead ;
Much dies as dies the old year’s leaf,
When all the clean illusions fled—
The pure, strong, youthful, clean belief.
And so the beauty leaves me old
So that I may not joy ; but feel
The Spring a-shiver as with cold !
The bowstring on the shield of steel!
The ti-tree quiet after stress,
Like souls that drew the bitter breath
And, agonised to quietness,
Quiet await the Last Friend—Death.
And yet the ti-tree’s glad with bloom,
After its long-drawn storm, and pain!
. . .So my new strength shall laugh at Doom,
And get itself to war again!
Sun—bright as sun has ever shone —
Throws down its challenge to the sea!
The dawn and all my dreams are gone!
The Day and Work begin to be.
VICTORIA.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
The Nocturnes of St. Job’s.
[FOR THE BULLEITN.]
IT was while living in St. Job’s Cham-
bers I got bitten by the microbe of
photography, and when the period of in-
cubation was past I found I had the disease
in its most virulent form. So I wasted my
substance on many text-books, sat up all
night reading them, and banished the girls
who were making too free with my rooms,
resplendent with the furniture of the ab-
sconded beauty-actor. Then I cleared out
what had been the beauty-actor’s dressing-
room, and, hiring a plumber and a carpenter,
turned it into a dark-room. Instead of
spending my evenings on the roof with a
singing girl propped against my shoulder,
I fooled around with negatives and evil-
smelling solutions, and one Sunday morning
stumbled on to the fascinating pastime of
carbon printing. This, it may be explained,
is a system of printing by which water-color
pictures are produced in monochrome from
photographic negatives.
So, because the boss had a wide range of
cameras which I borrowed with all the mag-
nificent impudence of your true photomaniac,
I made some charming pictures, although I
say it myself.
At first I stuck religiously to landscape.
Then the girls who swarmed in St. Job’s
Chambers found I had become a camera-
fiend, and instantly I was inundated with
offers “to sit.” Then it flashed on me
that I was indeed blessed. I was a picture-
maker, and among the girls of St. Job’s were
samples of every style and type. Therefore
it was wisdom to make a collection of
samples of female loveliness while I abode
in a garden of it. So I turned my dining-
room into a studio, curtained my windows,
laid in a supply of reflectors, and started on
the long contract of photographing all the
girls of St. Job’s. In photography form is
everything, complexion nothing, and I soon
found that the plainest girls made the best
pictures.
Stimulated by this discovery, I scorned no
girl’s offer to sit. Even an ugly girl has her
uses; so I made a clean sweep, from the
Junoesque widow in the next suite, to the
little black-haired, hollow-eyed housemaid
who brought the morning cup of tea.
One night I let photography go, and
climbed out on to the roof, in the hope that
the girl with the brown-gold hair and face
of cream-and-roses would flash her milk-
white arms in the moonlight, in the place
where we used to sing songs before I com-
menced to spend my nights printing on gas-
light paper.
I scrambled to the gable that overlooked
where the long line of palms in pots made a
sort of roof garden. Sure enough, a girl in
a white dress and short sleeves was reclining
there, and humming an old song of ours.
Taking careful aim with myself, I deposited
my mat and shot down the slate gable, ar-
riving with a crash at her fet. She scram-
bled up in alarm.
“My gracious ! How you frightened me!
Are you hurt?”
It was the wrong girl.
“Hurt, no!” I replied. “You’re evidently
new here. This is how we always travel
down the gables—it saves a lot of walking.
I’m sorry I scared you; I thought you were
an old sweetheart of mine.”
“No, I’m a new arrival here ; only came in
last night. It’s a very lonely place for a
girl without friends.”
“Most places are,” I expostulated.
“Yes, I suppose so. But then I’m new in
the city. Came from England a month ago
to get employment from some ladies’ guild.
I found the members of the ladies’ guild un-
congenial employers, so now I’m looking for
work where I can have a few nights a week
to mvself. I don’t suppose you know any-
body'who wants a good drawn-thread worker,
do you?”
“Well, no! I can’t remember anybody
at the moment. But just sit here till I
think—-I may presently.”
She laughed, and there was a ring of
worldly wisdom in her mirth. But she sat
down again, and stayed there talking foolish-
ness till the post-office clock chimed 11, when
I suddenly realised I was both hungry and
thirsty.
“Have you ever considered the beauties of
supper for two?” I inquired sympathetically.
“Where?”
“In my rooms —I have a dining-room, a
dark-room for photography, another apart-
ment, and a lumber repository.
“Any intruders?” she inquired.
“No, none. The rule in St. Job’s is that
you stick a fork in the keyhole when you are
not at home.”
“What an excellent system of freemas-
onry ! Really, this is quite interesting. I
think I would like to know more about St.
Job’s. It seems a dream of a place.”
“Very well, come along. I have half a,
crayfish, two of stout, one and a-half of
hock, some rolls and a quarter of butter.”
“Excellent. But tell me, how do you
slide up the gables?”
"That’s the drawback. We have to climb
them—there’s a ladder at each end. Give
me your hand.”
It was a nice hand, plump, soft and alto-
gether unlike a hand that had spent much
time cleaning stoves. I led her over the
gables, with my sliding mat tucked under
my arm; reached the parapet, let her down
on to my scrap of balcony by the simple pro-
cess of clasping her round the waist and let-
ting her flop. After that we felt as though
we’d known one another quite a long time.
While I inserted the fork in the keyhole
she arranged the table. And then, when
my eyes had grown accustomed to the light,
I saw that her features were of the volup-
tuous type. Full lips of bright red; tawny
hair, and plenty of it; a full bust and all the
rest of it. While she assimilated crayfish I
studied her. trying to make up my mind how
she would “take” best, and decided on flow-
ing draperies.
Having demolished the crayfish, and mop-
ped up the stout, we grew confidential. I
told her she would make a heavenly portrait
in loose flowing robes, and suggested that
she should try some on just to see how she
looked. For I had remembered that in my
wardrobe the Junoesque widow had recently
deposited a number of expensive wrappers,
which she said would be quite ruined in the
cramped-up chest of drawers with which her
apartment was furnished in lieu of a ward-
robe.
"Have you some stock wrappers, then?”
she inquired.
I switched on the light in the bedroom.
“Right-hand wardrobe. Choose some-
thing with a violet or heliotrope tint in it!”
I said magnificently, waving my hand to-
wards the gorgeous bedroom of the absconded
beauty-actor.
In less than two minutes she was back,
draped in a long flowing cx-eation of pale
violet, with deep purple borders. She looked
glorious; and I dived for the dark-room,
where I had a few inches of magnesium
ribbon.
* * * *
It was after 1 a.m. when I took her out on
to the roof again, and steered her over the
tiles to where the passage led to her room.
At the door she lingered.
“You’re horrid, you know; but I’ll come
along again to-morrow night and try that
dark-blue wrapper. Perhaps I might try
that pale pink one, too.”
“Right!” I said, holding her hand linger-
ingly.
“What are you waiting for?”
“Well, you look so charming I’m just dy-
ing to kiss you!”
“It’s taken you over two houi*s to find that
out —I’m accustomed to more rapid con-
quests. Good-night! Three to-morrow af-
ternoon !”
“No, this afternoon.”
And I switch-backed down to the head of j
my own stairs feeling, somehow, that I had i
been what is known as “dead slow.”
* * * *
She was a model that artists dream about,
but seldom find. Versatile, well-read, artis-
tic, with a wonderful range of expressions.
She was full of admiration for her own
beauty, and would go to infinite trouble to
have a beautiful picture made of herself.
Which is a glorious thing in a photomaniac’s
girl.
When I had taken a few portraits of her
I found that color did count for something
in photography. On oi-dinary photographic
plates her tawny hair printed dark, and
gave her face a strangely wistful, resurrec-
tion sort of expi*ession, subduing the volup-
tuousness of her features. On a color-coi 1 -
rected plate it printed lighter, nearer its
exact value in scheme of light and shade, giv-
ing a suggestion of amorousness—alluring,
wicked. This was invaluable, for by using
different plates I could make her either a
Madonna or a Venus, just as I required.
So the fork was always in the keyhole,
and the negative rack began to fill up as I
used packet after packet of plates on her.
Narcisse —I had named her —faded out of
St. Job’s as suddenly as she had come into
it. She left without saying good-bye or pay-
ing her rent. And the gap in my life was
worse than the crevasse in my vanity. To
think that she should have thought so little
of all the glorious hours we had spent to-
gether as to go off in that way broke me
up. My only consolation was that I had
carefully concealed from her the fact
that I really felt I could not live
without her. I felt depressed for
nearly a week, and then the “taking” of
the rest of the girls of St. Job’s re-started,
and gradually I forgot all about her. Only
when I had a clear day, and started out to
(Continued on next parte.)


! That BacK!
Ache! Ache! Ache ! Takes all the life, all the energy
out of you. Makes you miserable. There is danger in it, too.
Neglect the warning of a bad back, you neglect an appeal from
the kidneys. When the back is bad, when it s lame or weak,
when it aches, when it’s tired, the kidneys are sick, demand
attention. D oan’s Backache Kidney Pills relieve quickly the
aches and pains and weakness of a bad back. Doan s Backache
Kidney Pills cure all kidney ills, cure urinary troubles, too fre-
quent urinary discharges, retention of the urme, and all dangerous
disorders of the kidneys and bladder. If you fail to help the
kidneys in time, Diabetes, Dropsy, Bright’s Disease are sure
to follow. Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are endorsed by
friends and neighbors, by people you know.
A SYDNEY WOMAN’S CURE.
Mrs. K. Helmka, 27 Ada Street, Pyrmont, Sydney, says “ About 13 years ago I caught a severe
cold, which flew to the small of my back, and seemed to affect my kidneys. My back was lame, and when
cold weather set in the pain would be dreadful. When I worked the sewing machine my back ached worst,
and I could never stay at it for any length of time. Having a large family to sew for made it very hard for
me. I heard of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and sent for some. Belief came almost immediately I
started to use them, and now my cure is perfect. I am pleased to recommend these pills to all kidney
sufferers.”
Nine years after the above was given Mrs. Helmka says: —“I have seen the above statement
appearing in the papers. It is quite true, and my cure has stood the test of time, for I have been well for
over nine years.”
ro
m
0
Ns
£
it
e
Tells
2LS
Duurs
Backache
Kidney
PILLS.
At all Chemists and Stores , 2\9
per bottle (six bottles, 15/3),
or from Foster-McClellan Co
76 Pitt Street , Sydney.
make carbon prints of her, working her
beautiful figure into landscapes in a series
ot delicate nocturnes, I felt the old hunger
return.
One evening Norman Englehardt wan-
dered up with me. When the crayfish had
gone, and all the bottles but one were emnty,
he arose, and gazed fixedly at a nocturne of
Narcisse I had hung on the wall.
‘‘Your work?” he asked, incredulously.
“It is—l thought it was my own girl,
too, but, somehow she got off the hook.”
“Um! Pity! If I got a model like that
I’d marry her rather than let someone else
get away with her. Who stole her?”
I told him of Narcisse, and he went on
turning over the pictures of her as I talked.
When I had finished, he remarked quietly:
“She’s a pearl beyond price! Gosh; no
wonder you got good pictures with a gem
like that to work on! Now, listen. I’m
going to propose you down at the Society.
These carbons are just it. They’ll wipe the
floor with anything there. The annual exhi-
bition comes off in six weeks, and I want
you to exhibit these.”
“Why?”
“Well, a blighter named Grayson, a hog
with heaps of cash and a studio with about
£5OO worth of up-to-date appliances, has
mopped up every prize in the carbon division
lor five years. I want to see him licked, and
these ’ll do it! I’ll propose you the very
next meeting.”
“What’s the use? I haven’t time to at-
tend any meetings.”
“Lots of use! We have all sorts of ap-
pliances. You can enlarge these pictures
there, and make big ’uns of ’em; and how
will they look! Jerusalem, I’m as pleased
as if I’d picked up a bag of notes!”
I made a set of six pictures, and when I
saw them mounted and framed 1 realised
that the wondrous beauty and versatility
of Narcisse would, indeed, be hard to beat.
Printed in a moonlit landscape, she floated
elf-like over the surface of a lily pond. In
the next, a ghost picture, a baby was start-
ing from his sleep to see between him and
the curtains, pencilled against the moonlight,
the shadowy form of his lost mother, with
the moonlight and the curtains showing
through her wraith-form. I sighed as I
thought of how many failures we made of
that picture before I got Narcisse, with the
requisite exposure. The third was Nar-
cisse, in the darkened room, a book on her
knee, with a shaft of light issuing from the
fireplace and falling on her pensive face and
black hair, listening as though she had
heard a voice; and over her shoulder, with
naked throat and tumbled hair, her own
face again, with the light hair, and a mock-
ing devilish laugh on her features, alluring
and wicked, all in Bartolozzi red. Behind
me Norman Englehardt whispered: “Call it
‘Her Other Self !’ ”
Then we fitted into the frame the great
green seascape, with the mighty roller, foam-
crested, the light streaming down from riven
clouds, and in the midst of the wave the
beautiful form of Narcisse, her hair stream-
ing out to the crest of the water, laughing,
exultant.
After Englehardt and Hunter had gone
I sat looking at the masterpieces we had be-
tween us evolved from the pictures of Nar-
cisse. And, sitting there, 1 fell to wonder-
ing where Narcisse was that night; and
there, in front of Narcisse’s picture, I
dropped to sleep.
I was awakened by a light touch on the
forehead, and opening my eyes saw Narcisse.
She sank down on my knee and put her
arms round my neck.
“You went away without saying good-
bye, even!” I said, reproachfully.
“I couldn’t trust myself! The glamor of
this room, the charm of the pictures you
had made of me, the Bohemianism of our
friendship—all tugged at my heart, all made
it impossible to say good-bye. If I had come
here I should probably never have gone. In
spite of your seeming indifference I was
vain enough to think you liked —shall I say
almost loved?—me. And I was so tired of
work, so weary of the uncertain future, the
terror of penury. That’s why I went away
without a word, and asked Mrs. Mack to
say, if you inquired, that I had gone with-
out paying my board.
“And why are you back ? Where did you
go?”
She looked at the pictures without reply-
ing. I waited.
“Are you going to show those pictures
of me to win the carbon prize at the exhibi-
tion?”
“I am. You don’t mina, do you?”
“Surely you wouldn’t make an exhibition
of me!”
“They are so beautiful that it would be
a crime to hide them. llow did you come
here ?”
“Over the gable. I want you to do some-
thing.”
“What?”
“Keep those pictures for the following
year. If you exhibit those you will win.
And I don’t want you to win till next exhibi-
tion.”
“Then you want someone else to win?”
“Mr. Grayson—my husband !”
“Good Lord !”
“Yes ; it was to marry him I went away.
We met, he proposed, I accepted. He is
well-to-do. I know—l sold myself, and all
the rest of it! ... I only ask you to post-
pone your victory till the following year.”
“If I show these it will mean trouble for
you. I suppose?”
“No; he will not see them.”
“Why?”
“He is dying of lung-trouble —he is in bed
now. He will barely live till the results are
announced. And always he babbles of win-
ning for the sixth year in succession. Will
you wait?”
“I must!”
“I knew you would. Now, having won
my way, I must go. And the cruel-
lest part is that I don’t want to
go. I’m a bad nurse, and, I sup-
pose, a worse woman; and I’d give my
soul almost to stay here and eat crayfish
and drink hock.”
She stood up and looked more beautiful
than ever.
“Will you come back?”
“Need you ask —I’m dying to have more
pictures taken!”
C. A. JEFFRIES.
The Butterfly.
[FOR THE BULLEITN.]
ERVES,” said Buxton, holding a
match on the top bar of the grate,
’ until it lighted with a splutter—
“l’ve had ’em!”
He puffed at his pipe in silence, staring
hard at the fire.
“Remember that big walking trip I went
on my own —it was.. . after... that er—
smash I had?”
We remembered the smash; also we re-
joiced to a man that the red-headed little
devil had been found out in time.
“Well,” he continued, “I got that way
that any sudden sharp sound would make
me leap in the air as if I had been shot. I
was stewing hard for my last exam. All
day long I fought with the different noises
in the house, and I must have been pleasant
sort of company. The poor wretches crept
about as if the baby was dead. It was only
when everything was absolutely still that
I could get a grip on my work, and then if I
stopped for a moment I was frightened like
a child in the dark. I would watch the
door, expecting her to come in, all the time
longing and dreading to see her again...
You know that desperate feeling of loneli-
ness that only tears a man’s soul once?
Thank God we never feel again in the same
way!...Well, one red-hot night I was slog-
ging away as usual. The windows were
open to the street and the blinds down. On
the table where I was writing someone had
put a Japanese palm-pot with a black and
yellow butterfly painted on it. As I paused
for a moment a woman’s laugh sounded in
the street. That low, gurgling laugh of a
happy woman suddenly sent my thoughts
swinging backwards. Work grew impos-
sible. With my head propped mmy hands
1 stared straight before me ; life seemed to
me to have become a ghastly—panorama—of
—lost —opportunities....
“The house was very silent —a sudden,
deatli-like silence seemed to fill the room. I
felt as if I were choking. I tried to get up—
to call out. And then the door commenced
to slowly open... As I crouched over the
table I knew I was going mad, for the but-
terfly on the palm-pot moved its wings and
came to life!...With one wild yell that
brought the household tumbling to my res-
cue, I dashed at the uncanny insect
“When I came to a little later, I found a
lot of good whisky going to waste on my
shirt collar. Also I discovered the remains
of a real black and yellow butterfly, twin
brother to the one on the fern pot, mashed
to powder in my inky right hand.”
“And the opening door?” queried Bal-
combe the literal.
“Draughts,” answered Buxton, knocking
his ; oe out on the heel of his boot.
BOH.
The Laughter of Thor.
[FOR THE BULLEITN.]
HEY buried Thor in an olden shrine,
By the surge of the dark North Sea,
And two and two, ’neath the singing
pine,
Went the priests of Galilee.
Yet none were by who saw the bier,
Nor the death on his ruddy hair,
When the wide black night was full of fear
For the soul that its wings must bear.
The White Christ came from the glowing
East —
Oh, His word was a healing balm —
And the dark North turned from the battle-
feast,
To the chant of a war-sick psalm.
Slow in the steps of the Man of Peace
They tutored wild feet to tread,
Nor marked that the thunder did not cease.
Nor the lightning flash less red.
“They have buried me deep,” laughed Thor
on high,
“With words have they piled my grave,
But my beard is forked in their peaceful sky.
And my hammer is strong to save.”
And two and two, ’neath the singing pine,
Went the priests of Galilee,
Where they kept the altar lights a-shine
By the shores of the dark North Sea.
Shrive us of sin, for the blood leaps red ;
Bid the weary vigil end ;
The war-keels rust while the prayers are said.
And ill may the strong neck bend !
And the hammer of Thor was heard on high,
It battered the doors of cloud,
And the red, red lightning split the sky
O’er shrines where the pale priests bowed
Shrive us of sin, for we must away !
Christ’s love ! Let the sword Lite deep .
There are I’aynim spears in the field to-day,
Where our arms shall a God-tryst keep !
For the meek White Christ on the fougliten
field
Hate smote in the cause of love,
And over them long the tempest pealed
From the thunder-skies above.
They kissed the cross in their mortal pain,
They prayed for an hour of grace ;
And the wild Valkyries bore the slain
To stand before Odin’s face.
And two and two, ’neath the singing pine,
Went the priests of Galilee,
Where the beard of Thor was seen to shine.
Red-forked o’er the dark North Sea.
And a laughter of ages shook the world
For the psalm and the vigil vain,
Where the wrecks of the younger peace were
hurled
O’er the tomb of a war-god slain.
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.


The
h
For STATIONARY
and MARINE
PURPOSES
No
Carburetter
or
Vaporiser.
ĥ
No
Ignition
Apparatus.
makes the following claims upon your attention
1— It uses cheap lamp oil (such as kerosene), and other residuals.
2 The .oil is injected directly into the cylinder, thus dispensing with unre-
liable and inefficient vaporisers.
3 It is very simple in construction, there being no electric ignition or other
complicated mechanism.
4 Its speeds are such that electric generators and centrifugal pumps may
be coupled direct.
5 No skilled labor is required, the supply of fuel and lubricant being all
the attention necessary.
FULL PARTICULARS FROM
The Westinghouse Brake Company of Australasia Ltd.,
14 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY,
Queensland Agents: Holmes & Church, Brisbane.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
'&XX : XXX, i; % ;\i Xv :■ ■ ‘': ■;;" :: ; 'XXX X: ; • X.Xx - : -XX'XxX-X.XS ..;,' X : ;X^* XxXX'^' : "XX' >? - ; '■ : -
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Club Rum.
Dog Head Stout. King’s Liqueur Whisky.
Manufactureirs of Aerated Waters and Cordial.
DINNE FORDS,
* Magnesia
nwHgragg
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see that
“Dinneford &Co.”
is on every bottle
and label.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
ħ
Tile Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
3 Sets Bell-Metal Reeds.
LEATHER BOUND-BELLOWS.
Price 21/- post free.
Complete with instruction book.
ua vuu itac il
7
becomes doubly beautiful when
on the
Mclbii
with
The Silver Tone
The Best Accordeon. Sounds the Best.
Haunting melodies are never so sweet as when
they are played on this instrument. The
Church Organ-Like Tone is Just Perfect!
MELBA now charms many a home— one
would charm Yours—Why not NOW ?
The Test Tells The Tale.
Other Models—7/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/6, 27 6, 37/6.
Complete colored illustrated Catalogue Free.
- SOLE AGENTS
ALLAN & CO. Prop. Ltd., 276-8 Collins St., Melbourne. Bendigo and Geelong
mss
m
W:
BRIGHTEN EXISTENCE.
It is not difficult to know when a mild aperient
is required. One feels dull and depressed; there is
acid in the stomach, oppression at the chest, numb
pain in the back, possibly a sharp attack of indigestion
or biliousness and headache.
Cockle’s Pills quickly dispel all such distressing symptoms of disorder,
cleansing the system thoroughly, restoring tone and stability to the whole
digestive apparatus, purifying the blood, and generally renewing normal
physical conditions as well as mental brightness. In a word, Cockle’s Pills
brighten existence by keeping the K ody fit and well. The purer skin
and clearer complexion are the sure signs of it.
Of all Chemists, l/li and 2/9 per box.
Yon Know What To Expect
in certain circumstances. All doubt is, eliminated. The result is a
fore-gone conclusion. To persons in doubtful health this must surely
be welcome news: and yet how many spend good time and money in
useless experiments! There is absolutely no excuse for this, because
in nearly every case of ordinary ailments a cure can be easily effected.
When Yon K;e
Beecham’s Pills you can safely predict the result. They have been
tried by so many people for so many causes, and in so many parts of
the world with such unvarying good results, that you know what to
expect. This can be said of very few medicines. It is surely consol-
ing when your food disagrees with you—or if you cannot sleep or you
are bilious and headachy —to know that all you require is a course of
Bccdiam’s pills.
This preparation ensures the healthy action of the
Stomach, Bowels, Liver, and Kidneys.
Sold everywhere in boxes, price 1/14 (56 pills) $ 2/9 (168 pills).
During the Progress of our GREAT REMOVAL
SALE we arc offering the following-
Usual Price. Sale Price
Double - Barrelled, Breech - loading
Guns, engine-turned rib, left bar-
rel full choke, right modilied, re-
bounding locks and pistol grip.
Trial £5 2 6 £3 12 6
Single-Barrel Duck Guns, large bore,
to kill at 100yds. Trial .. ..8 6 0 610 0
Single-Barrel, Hammerless, Breech-
loading Guns,choke bore, excellent
stock. Trial 310 0 1 17 6
Double - Barrelled, Breech - loading
Guns with Greener patent wedge
fast cross bolt, choke bore, walnut
stock, pislol grip, patent cartridge
ejector. Trial 5 10 0 4 17 6
Special Pigeon Guns, with patent
side clips, file cut rib, top lever,
choke bore, specially selected wal-
nut stock, Greener patent wedge
fast cross bolt. Trial .. .. 10 0 0 7 10 0
Mauser Principle Rifles, 22 calibre,
kill at 300yds. Trial .. .. 15 0 13 6
Guns by All Makers in Stock.
Write for Special Sale Catalogue.
ALL ORDERS FOR GUNS AND RIFLES DE-
LIVERED CARRIAGE PAID TO ANY ADDRESS
IN AUSTRALASIA.
tSmall Arms Co.
Gunsmiths & Importers -
242-244 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE
QP
r Big G
Botated Goldenseal
Compound
A safe and simple remedy for
Bronchitis, Catarrh, Hay Fever
inflammations, Irritations, ulcer-
ations of ALL mucous membranes
or linings of the nose, throat,
stomach or urinary organs-
AT CHEMISTS
Why not cure yourself
Treatise wl th jach bottle
or mailed on request.
The Evans Chemical Co.
Ciarianali, Ohio,
U.S.A.
The'St fin (lard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
in use since 1596.
CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Load, London, Eng.
Prompt Relief
from Rheumatism
r
LUMBAGO, SPRAINS,
AND ALL ACHES AND PAINS
Assured by Applying
V JAGOBS
OIL
Sold everywhere.
CANT
B
BEAT
RIAR
PIPES
ALL SHAPES
1/each POST free I/s
Quality Not Better
in a
Guinea Pipe '
MICK SIMMONS
SYDNEY.
Storekeepers & tobacconists
SHOULD SEND TOR OUR TRADE UST
THREE WITCHES
CIGARETTES.
MORRISS !
tree Witches
CWABITTBS
-•imtll!
10
HIGHEST GRADE.
Sb per 100, Post Free.
MICK SIMMONS, SYDNEY.
Storekeepers and Tobacconists should
send for our Trade Lists.
m
GMAULTS INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expeetoratihn. Asthma, Nervous Coußhs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GRIMAULT & Co’s INDIAN CIGAR.
ET'PES. So d by all Chrmists.
h
Superior to ,
INJECTIONS
iCUBEBS and
I COPAIBA.
Cures_ the same
diseases without
inconvenience},
in
48 hours
Each Capsule heart the name
ĥ
?s2> Well, of course
Anything worth doing is
worth doing well —so lor
the antiseptic cleansing your
teeth need every day, use
CALVERT’S
Carbolic Tooth Powder
Lo:al Chemists and Stores sell it.
F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester, Eng.
\TROUCHETSJ
// DiußEnrio
fHDNEY&DHDDHu
REMEDY I
A CORRECTIVE
OF THE
URINARY
ORGANS
to
IT IS
ALSO A
SPLENDID
TOM 1C
Obr&m&bte <?// Chpmtsts
iHißinatf,
' Sole Austr&i'&sisn Agents. 75 YORK ST.3YDNEY


ARCHITECTS specify
MACK PARTITIONS
and have a Fire-Proof,
•Sound-Proof
and Vermin-Proof
DIVIDING WALL.
Writ* for our Catalogue, or call and inspect.
MACK LTD.,
Royal Insurance Buildings,
Cor. PITT and SPRING STREETS, SYDNEY.
HOUSE LIGHTING.
Electric Generating: Sets, Steam, Oil
and Petrol; and Storage Batteries,
with all necessary fittings,
Lamps, etc., for complete installations.
Write for particulars to
T. K. Steanes. 39 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Fibro-Cement
WHAT IS IT? Portland Cement, rein-
forced with Asbestos. It has the strength and
durability of concrete, and the cool and fire-proof
quality of Asbestos. It is, therefore, strong,
light, durable, cool, ant- and fire-proof, artistic in
appearance.
Made in Slates for roofing, Red, Orey and Purple,
in Sheets Bft. 2sin. x 4ft. for Wails, Lining
and Ceilings.
Used by the Australian Governments ; also for covering
Churches, Villas, Homesteads, Dairies, Siles, etc.
Write for Illustrated Catalogue “ B ” to Sole Importers,
JAMES HARDIE & CO.,
Circular Quay West, SYDNEY ; and
581=583 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
rriHE BEST STORIES written in Australia
I appear in The Lone Hand each month.
Price sixpence.
WOLFE’S
The Family Stimulant.
FOR MEN
FOR WOMEN
SCHNAPPS
Motor Driven
‘BON ACCORD’
STEEL LINED
CENTRIFUGAL
PUMP
For PUMPINC
SLIMES, TAIL-
INGS, etc. Also
for DREDGING
ORES, GRAVEL,
SAND & STONES
h
“BON ACCORD”
Centrifugal Pumps.
HIGH EFFICIENCY.
For Sand Pumping, Sewerage, Salvage, Condensing.
Irrigating, Draining, DocK Pumping, Mine Pumping, etc.
J. WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR, Ltd , 82 Pitt St.,Sydney
ENGINEERS,
IRON FOUNDERS,
BOILER MAKERS,
&Gi) &Ca
NEPHAN FERGUSON
PROPRIETARY LIMITED-
Governing Directors
MEPHAN FERGUSON
ROBERT SHAND
Office and Works:
Gordon St., Footscray, Victoria.
Manufacturers of
WROUGHT IRON,
CAST IRON, and
STEEL PIPES.
Central
3236
5221
MINING
1
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LIMITED
AGENTS FOR ERNEST SCOTT & MOUNTAIN, LIMITED, GATESEND ON TYNE, ENGLAND
—162 Clarence St.,
IMPROVED
DESIGNS
ĥ
Adapted for AH Services.
Exhausting Refuse from Woodworking Plants -
Ventilating Factories and Public Buildings -
Mine Ventilation .
Forced and induced Draft for Boilers .
Supplying Blast to Cupolas, Furnaces and Forges.
Exhausting Smoke and Fumes, etc .
FULL IN FORM A TION and PRICES
ON A PPLICA TION.
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.,
Engineers and Machinery Merchants, 60 Clarence St., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
• ••
m
m;
KEYSTONE PORTABLE DRILLS
ħ
For Artesian Water, Mineral Prospecting, etc.
TRACTION AND NON-TRACTION.
A recent buyer writes: “ The machine (No. 5 Traction) is doing splendid work, so much so that we are ordering
another. The country we are drilling in is very hard, but we have bored as much as 51ft. in a day.”
Nos. 4 and 5 IN STOCK for Immediate Delivery.
Sole
Agents
*•
E
N.
263 George Street, Sydney.
525 Collins Street, Melbourne.
