

The EMBODIMENT OF PERFECTION— DEWAR’S WHISKY
it. G-. & co.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
’ —FOB —
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
awkrtv .Smj&Ja
McLaren
Traction Engines.
The Finest Hauling Locos.
535 Kent Street, Sydney,
AND
486 Collins Street, Melbourne.
B.A. Agent: C. C. DELAND, Bowman's Bldgs., Adelaide
ECOB^R.*r.
3HB
Radley’s Qrient Ijotel.
piONEE
LEATHER BELTING
Guaranteed.
J. C. Ludowici & Son, Ld.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
"Take it back,
I must have
HUTTON* S
Pine-Apple Brand I
HAMS 0
BACON.
CHUBB’S SAFES
with PATENT ASBESTOS INNER DOORS.
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets is
recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the diges-
HANSENS
J
4*
For INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially-prepared Tablets acts most
beneficially when taken daily after m§als.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
Ciffo,
cuv. ICTcuU^w
fixTiu, /BZO. &i£L jetuf
09
%
Money advanced upon all Securities at Reasonable
Rates of Interest.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
THIS COMPANY WAS FORMED TO SUPPRESS USURY.
And at MELBOURNE, BRISBANE and NEWCASTLE.
BENSDORPS
Royal
Dutch
is the Queen of all Cocoa
FOI^
Arom^treiigtKt'PuritjC
MACTIiOID ROOFING.
MALTHOID IS NOT ONLY A ROOFING. It is a complete waterproofer for most things. In conjunction
i with P. & B. PAINT it is very satisfactorily used for making Dams, Artificial Lakes and Troughs; also
for waterproofing Floors,, Bathroom Floors, Spray Tower Floors, and other such kinds of work.
MALTHOID is the best material for you to use because it is made from a pure mineral which is backed by
26 years of successful use.
Write us for fuller particulars, and we will ensure your being satisfied.
I; THE PARAFFINE PAINT COMPANY, CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
FRICTION CLUTCHES and CLUTCH PULLEYS.
MANURE DRYERS, STEAM ENGINES.
C. A. MACDONALD LTD.,
63 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
CREAM COOLERS, BUTTER FACTORY REQUISITES.
Old
as the
Hills.
THOBNE’S
WHISKY.
F ragrant
as the
Heather.
HELIDON SPA WATER
The efficacy of HELIDON SPA ties in its
solvent power and cleansing properties.
DEWHURST g HALLORAN, Ui„
Agents.
The Bulletin
Vol. 32.—N0. 1621.]
[Thursday, March 9, 1911.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


books on engineering and electricity.
SEND FOR. OUR LIST
ON THESE SUBJECTS.
Vernon-Harcourt: Civil Engineering, 19s, posted 20s.
Hiscox 6. D.: Modern Steam Engineering, 15s, p. 16s.
Horner, J.: Modern Milling- Machines, 15s, posted 16s
Webb W. h.: Railroad Engineering, 15s, posted 16s 6d.
Roxburgh, W.: General Foundry Practice, 12s6d, p. 13s 3d
Ripper, W.: Steam Engine, Theory and Practice, 9s, p. 10s.
Wannan’s Engine-Driver’s Guide, ss, posted 5s 6d.
Warren, W. H.: Engineering- Construction, 21s, p. 22s 3d.
Goodman : Mechanics Applied to Engineering:, 10s 6d,
posted 11s 3d.
Foster : Electrical Engineer’s Pocket Book, 255, p. 265.
Lupton : Electricity as Applied to Mining, 14s 6d, p. 15s 6d
Walker, S. F.: Electricity in Mining, 10s 6d, posted lls 6d.
Estv : Alternating Current Machinery, 15s, posted 16s 6d.
Tho Standard Handbook for Electrical Engineers, 20s. posted 21s.
CEORCE ROBERTSON & CO., PROP., LTD., Booksellers and Stationers, 238 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
udson’s “Eumenthol Jujubes
AN IDEAL. REMEDY
PH
§2$
MEtHCAL «AT*rrt*SKXS-j'S\ \
VO'S
teSrc.HUDS.ON:
SOLD ONLY IN TINS, Price 1/6,
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats, Bronchitis,
Influenza, and the Prevention of Consumption.
Containing- No Cocaine or other Poisonous Drug.
Suited for Old and Young.
Thf. Lancet says: “ Proved to be effective bacterieidalh
as is creosote.”
Unlike cough medicines, “ EUMENTHOL JUJUBES”do
not interfere with the Digestion ; on the contrary, they
have a beneficial effect, as their antiseptic properties
prevent abnormal fermentation of the food when taken
after meals.
Sold by All Chemists, or
Post Free on Receipt of
in Stamps.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL COMPANY. LTD., w vork street, Sydney
THE RED PAGE
A Gentleman of Leisure —P. G. Wodehouse (Dy-
mock’s). A light and entertaining story,
which appeared somewhile ago in America
as The Intrusions of Jimmy. That two
separate titles should so often be used is a
mystery ; also a nuisance.
The Mountain of God —E. S. Stevens (G. Robertson
and Co.). A love story of English people
in Syria, by the author of The Veil. The
book was evidently written to explain the
Bahai doctrines, “ which might be described
as a religious progressivism, in which the
most humanitarian and practical ideas of the
West are wedded to devotion and mysticism
of a very high order.” The mountain is
Carmel, where the Persian exiles who preach
the new religion under ; Abdul Baha have a
monastery. The spread of Bahaism has been
remarkably rapid, and this story, shows that
“ The Master ” is a high-class spell-binder.
The Jews: A Study of Race and Environment, by
Maurice Fishberg (Contemporary Science
Series, 65.). The Jews of Western Europe and
U.S.A. are mixing with their neighbors and
losing their orthodoxy ; their birth rate de-
clining as they become free and prosperous.
The Eastern Jews remain poor, orthodox and
prolific. Russian oppression, therefore, helps
to keep the religion pure and maintain the
supply of Jews. These are the conclusions of
Fishberg’s wide and thorough study of the
present position of his race.
Victor Daley’s “Wine and Roses”
Twelve years ago and more, wrapt in the
glowing perfection of a Sydney June, I sat
looking at Victor Daley’s first volume, won-
dering how to get on paper the warmth
and color and the magic of it. “The
sun,” I wrote at last, “is master of Daley’s
verse. What though it begins with the
fading day, by Lethe, by Kendall’s grave-
turn the page, and we are in sunshine; the
world is aflood with it, the wine is full of
it, it sets the verse aflame.”
To-day I have been reading the second
volume. The twelve years may have some-
thing to do with it. . . but the sun has gone
in, and the colors have paled; and one
feels but rarely the thrill of the old magic.
Nor is it the true Daley magic: without
the glow lie seems often a mere understudy
of Kendall. Twelve years ago, it would
seem, we caught him just as the inspira-
tion began to slacken; we would not be-
lieve him when he told us that
All the glory and the glow
Of life are passed, and dead, and gone.
But he knew better.
So much, has to be said first. The lover
of At Dawn and Dusk must be warned
that Wine and Roses is no twin-sister.
The splendor of the earlier verse was
unique, and Daley could not recover it, any
more than the Henley of Hawthorn and
Lavender could re-acquire the splendid con-
fidence of the London Voluntaries. You
will not find another “Sunset Fantasy,”
another “Passion Flower.” But you will
find beautiful verse still.
In Avonaise, in Avonaise,
Where all is dead and done,
The folk who rest there all their days
Care not for moon and sun.
That is the Daley of “Cares,” wearier
and older, but magical still.
And softly over all is drawn
The quiet curtain of the grass.
That is the tender, delicate poet of the
Lines on Violet Varley:
And now I stand with back against the wall,
A beetle pinned against the wall of Fate :
I think—if God is, as I think Him, great—
That He will wipe my score out, once for all.
This is a new Daley, broken and old,
with vital forces well-high spent—past car-
ing, but not past appealing (you must read
the whole poem; one stanza cannot sum
it) to the eternal justice. And where one
cannot —as one can regarding the last three
quotations—sample the whole poem by
quoting a few lines, yet glimpses of the old
magic are seen: as this of the sea:
Yet in her heart-deeps tragic
The lost Atlantis lies ;
and this, Kendall-wise:
At times by some green-ey el ashed pool
She lies in slumber deep ;
Her slender hands are white and cool
As are the hands of sleep;
or the verses on Sydney Harbor:
The long reflections shine,
Quivering tremulously
On the waters velvet-dark ;
And those shining spirals seem to me
Tall golden columns Byzantine
Of palaces under the sea ;
or the great boast of Woman:
In ages ere the stars took flame
There brooded on my breast the dove,
And from my womb the white worlds came.
Notable, too, as a reminiscence of the old
Daley in his epigrammatic mood is this:
I learnt the language of the birds ;
A new Saint Francis I would be ;
But, when I understood their words,
The birds were preaching unto me.
Passing up and down the volume, one
comes at last to an understanding of its-
keynote. Daley was tired —he could sing
his splendid song no longer; he was disil-
lusioned —and he could not live without
illusions. He was disillusioned, that is,
as to the present; and all the more ear-
nestly he recalled, and sought to re-create,
the illusions of the past. Kipling and he
both agree that Romance is not dead; and
Kipling and the Daley of At Dawn and Dusk
would have meant the same thing by that
statement. But this Daley means some-
thing very different. Kipling’s Romance
is the ruler, the inspiring soul, of Reality,
but Daley bids us cast off the fetters of
Reality and seek the shrine of a dea,d Ro>
mance, the haunts of Blanaid the Fair and
Gold Gudrun —he longs to follow the
Green Harper to the Wood of Broceliande.
And that longing, that command, as imag-
ing a set mood of the mind, is fatal.
Rare and lonely is the man who dares
live without illusions; but the illusions
must be our own, not borrowed. No two
men see the same rainbow; no man, or
woman, dreams another’s dream —though
sometimes two dream the same by divine
good-fortune, and go on dreaming it, and
that is marriage. But to look for com
fort and nourishment in the dreams of
other lands and other ages is mere quest
of starvation —at any rate for so warm-
blooded a man as was Victor Daley.
What starved him? What wore his heart
out? It is a matter that Australians need
to consider very earnestly. What do we
do with our poets, that this is the end of
them? It is a cheap answer that it has
always been so—that in all ages the poetic
temperament has been found incompatible
with money-getting; that Milton only got
£lO, or £s,' or whatever the pittance was,
for Paradise Lost, and so on. In so far as
the general statement is true, it is irrele-
vant. We have managed, despite all pre-
cedents, to raise the wages of the artisan;
We do our best to encourage the inventor
(unless, apparently, we are Railway Com-
missioners) ; we are consciously and delib-
erately moving towards an age when every
citizen with capacities useful to the State
shall be given the opportunity to use them.
But for the poet, who is as essential a citi-
zen as the Professor of Chemistry, or the
Lord Mayor, we can provide, seemingly,
nothing but columns of statistics to add
up. A free allotment at Rookwood would
be simpler and less cruel.
N.S.W.
ISHMAEL DARE.
Lindsay’s "Petronius”
The company of great grotesques in
literature, which includes Pantagruel, Fai-
staff, Sanclio, Tartar in and a few others,
has no more finely-drawn character than
pot-bellied Trimalchio —a superior Chris-
topher Sly, with whom fortune played a
joke which lasted for years. He is the
central figure of a fragment which is all
that We have of the earliest novel. Whether
written by Petronius or not is unproven,
THE NOTARY.
but reasonably certain. The Arbiter Ele-
gantiarum, whose artistic suicide at the
order of Nero is mentioned by Tacitus,
may have been such a person as Sienkie-
wicz re-created in Quo Vttdis, or Marcel
Schwob drew finely in Vies Imaginaires;
all we know of him makes him just
the man to write a brilliant realistic
novel. After a score of centuries his work
seems as vital and interesting as most
fiction of our own time. It is more modern
in spirit than The Golden Ass of a little
later date; more modern even than Nash’s
Jack Wilton, the. best of the picaresque
romances of the Elizabethan period.
The text of Petronius, edited by S.
Gaselee, and the earliest translation into
English (that of William Burnaby and
others, published in 1694), have been
printed on a hand-press- by Ralph Straus,
of London —the Straus who wrote The
Scandalous Mr. Waldo and the biography
of Robert Dodsley, publisher. This large
quarto volume is a splendid specimen of
the printers’ art; but its principal value
is as a commentary on 100 illustrations
by Norman Lindsay.
* For the first time a Latin classic has
been illustrated by an artist who has thor-
oughly entered into its spirit. The time is
that of Rome’s decadence under Nero, and
the characters of Petronius are representa-
tive. They are pictured here in pen and
ink lines which seem to quiver with move-
ment and life. The subjects are admirably
TRIMALCHIO AT BALL.
suited for Lindsay’s pen, and his dexterity
has seldom been seen to such advantage.
This is not the place to praise his quality.
Let it go at the phrase of the S. M. Herald
reviewer—“the soul of Aubrey Beardsley
in the resurrected body of Hogarth.” As
a book of special interest for more than
one reason, Lindsay’s Petronius is bound to
go up in value. Already Hugh McCrae’s
Satyrs and Sunlight, illustrated by Lind-
say, has advanced from one to five guineas
and there are no sellers. A few copies of
Petronius are obtainable from Angus and
Robertson and Dymock’s Book Arcade at
£6 6s. each.
«.
A venture of some interest to Australians
is the new quarterly review of the politics of
the British Empire, called The Round Table ,
published by H. C. Morgan, 55 Fetter Lane,
London, at 2s. 6d. per copy. It promises to
give “a regular account of what is going on
throughout the King’s dominions, written
with first hand knowledge and entirely free
from the bias of local political issues, and to
provide a means by which the common prob-
lems which confront the Empire as a whole
can be discussed also with knowledge and
without bias.” He is a feather-brained opti-
mist who expects discussion of any value
without bias.j still, like the star to which
you should hitch your waggon, it is a good
ideal for the editor to keep before him.
The first number, dated November last,
has unsigned articles on Anglo-German
Rivalry, India and the English, the Consti-
tutional Crisis in Britain, Home Rule, Cana-
dian and South African politics.
The clear and logical statement of the
causes which have led up to the present
relations between Britain and Germany is a
model for publicists. The writer does not
assume too much knowledge on the part of
the reader, but gives him all the necessary
facts, connects them and explains them
lucidly. If each number of The Round
Table has only one article of that quality it
•will be worth getting. There is no agent in
Australia at present ; but orders can be sent
to the publisher'direct, or through any book-
seller.
Tolstoy’s Politics
“E.D.” (Toowoomba) wants to know if
Tolstoy was ever a Socialist, and what was
his influence as a political writer. . . ,
Hard to say what Tolstoy wasn't at one
time or other, but after he got religion he
advocated political reform by means
of the Single Tax and withdrawal
from the army and the administration.
Seeing the State in Russia as a military
bureaucracy, supported by the Church and
working for the Devil, he thought the best
course was to drop out, and urge others to
do the same. As far as he was able he
went to the root of things, and preached
first principles, without caring whether
they were practicable or not.
If his teaching and example had been
generally followed, anarchy would arrive
before its time; but his-ffniluence has been
a vaguely diffused one, and the Tolstoyites
are not thorough-going.
Anarchy or no-government is an ideal
held by many who do not consider it within
the domain of practical politics. Oscar
Wilde is not regarded as a political au-
thority, but he put the case very well in
The Soul of Mon , /
H. G. Wells’ is an anarchist in a
sense. In the Days of the Comet he said:
“The anarchist world is our dream. The
way to that is through education, disci-
pline, and law. .... Socialism is the
schoolroom of true and noble anarchism,
wherein by training and restraint we shall
make men free.” Probably Tolstoy re-
garded that way as too long.
There are lots of people pointing
ways out of present troubles. “This age,”
says Wells in. The Neiv Machiavelli, “far
beyond all previous ages is full of powerful
men, men who might, if they had the will
for. it, achieve tremendous things.” Many
of these are anxious to mend civilisation
and put Society on the right track. As-
sume Society to be the central fact —the gi-
gantic, loosely-cohering conglomerate in
which there is so much unwisdom, injus-
tice, absurdity, etc. The reformers are tug-
ging. away to get the concern out of the
ruts, and their ropes ray out like the
spokes of a wheel. She does move a little,
this way and that; and one man shouts,
and then another, that if all would pull
his way the durned thing would move
ahead in a straight line. . . . There are
more on the Socialistic side than on any
other, and many of them have been cheered
by the example of Tolstoy, tugging honestly
at the other side, all alone.
The Romantic Movement in French Litera-
ture traced in a series of texts selected and
edited by IT. F. Stewart and A. Tilley
(Angus and Robertson). Here you have the
history of a movement which profoundly
affected French literature told by the docu-
ments—beginning with Madame de StaeTs
He L'Allemagne and including Victor Hugo’s
prefaces, Sainte-Beuve’s reviews, Gautier’s
Histoire du Romantisme, etc. The influence
of Balzac and others in deflecting and finally
breaking up the movement is explained in
the notes. The book is an admirable one for
students of French literature, for though, as
the editors say, ‘ ‘ the romantic theory of life
with its exaggerations and puerilities has
passed away; the romantic theory of
literature abides. French literature. .. .
has never abandoned the great prin-
ciple which the Romantic movement . . .
came to teach— that a work of art springs
from the emotions and is shaped by the
imagination of the individual artist.”
—, •
A new magazine from America — Adventure
(Ridgway Op., New York) promises to be full of
thrills every month. The contents list of the
December number has these titles: “ Home
Through Hades,” “A Poisoned Blockade,” “The
Sword-edge of Chance,” “Where Hell is Frozen
Over.” One yarn, “Fear,” has some good psy-
chology in it. .. . A story by Randolph Bedford
was to appear in the January number.


Jk
*G ,
**■////
No. 1061— Oak Liquor Frame, First
Qu ility Electroplate Mounts, 3 Gut Glass
Bottles, Hanrlsomelv Finished, with
Lock, '57/6.
No. 1024—China Biscuit Barrel,
Mounted Electroplate on Nickel
Silver, Choice Pesigri, 10/-
No. 1025— Biscuit Box, Electroplate on
Britannia Metal, Chased Design, 32/»
WA'c
Erf--'-'-'
No. 1013—Single Jam Dish, Electroplated
Frame and Cover, Crystal Glass Dish, Chased
Design, 10/6.
No. 1019 —Tilting Kettle and Stand, Electro-
plate on Britannia Metal, Rjchlv Engraved
5 half-pints, 50/- ; 6 half-pints, 56/-
Butter
Knife,
Electro-
plate on
Nickel
Silver, with
Pearl
Hamiie,
Anthony Horderns’
FOR
Silverware Satisfaction.
N". 979— Toast Rack, Electro*
plate oa Nickel Silver, 14/-
No. lx— Flower Vase,
Electro - Silverplate on
Nickel Silver, with Opal
Glass Vase, 10/6.
No. 1010— Single Jam Dish,
Electro-Silveiplat.e. on Niokel
Silver Frame, Colored Glass
Dish, 8/6.
Nc. 1047—Oval Entree Ltlalioe, loin. EKutro-
plate cn .Nickel silver, 56/- pair.
Sugar Basin and Scof ",
Electio-Silverplate 01.
Britannia Metal, hand-
somely engraved, 18/6.
No. 994— Breakfast Cruet,
Electroplate on Nickel Silver,
4 Cut Glass Bottles, 19/=
No. 1071—Epergne, Electroplate
Metal, Engraved Glass Vase and
. about 18in., 40/%
on Britannia
Dish, height
Illustrate!
Price List
Posted Free.
s
imsi
mi
Handsome Flower Stand, with 4 Glass Tubes,
Electroplate on Britannia Metal, 35/-
m
Butter Dish, Electroplate on Nickel
Silver, Chased Design, 8/-
No. 993— Breakfast Cruet
Electroplate on Nickel Silver,
4 Cut Glass Bottles, 23/-
No. 1005— Butter Dish,
Electroplate on Britannia
Metal Frame and Cover,
Crystal Glass Disli, 12/-
No 1049— Oblong Entree Dishes, Electroplate
on Nioktl Silver, 10in., Elegant Design,
75/- pair.
Sugar Basin and Scoop, Electro
Silverplate on Britannia Metal
pretty design, 16/-
No. 1004— Butter Dish, Electro-
plated Frame and Cover, China
Dish, 17/6.
Jam Spoon,
Electroplate on
Nickel Silver,
“with Pearl
Handle, 1/8.
Mo. 998 —Dinner Cruet, Electroplate
on Nickel Silve', Out Glass 1 ottles,
i bottles, 35/- ; 6 bottks, 4? /6.
Oak Biscuit Barrel, mounted Electrc
Silv erplate on Nickel Silver, 13/-
No. 1022— Oak Biscuit Barrel, Mounted Electr< -
plate on Nickel Sih er, Chased Lid, 20/=
No. 996— Dinner Cruet, on Nickel Silver,
four Cut Glass Bottles, 20/»
No. 1020 —Sugar Scuttle and Scoop,
Electroplate on Britannia Metal,
Handsomely Engraved, 18/6.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Kent Brewery, Sydney
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau.
Full Particulars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Climate Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Crown Land suitable for Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on
Better Terms than elsewhere in Australia.
Corner of Queen and T. C. TROIiDSON,
George Streets, Brisbane. General Director.
Sydney Branch Office at 116 Pitt Street.—Local Director: A. MESTON.
ZEISS
FIELD GLASSES
WITH ENHANCED STEREOSCOPIC EFFECT.
For:
ARMY.
MARINE.
TRAVEL.
SPORT.
STALKING.
Features:
Brilliant
Definition.
Extensive Field.
Great Light
Intensity.
Mechanical
Precision.
Stability.
Tropic Proof.
With
separate eyepiece
focussing.
XB. £8 15 0
Xl2—£l2 10 0
NEW MODELS
OF ALL
OPTICIANS AT
AUSTRALASIAN
PRICES.
With
central focussing
mechanism.
X 6 0 0
X 8 —£9 15 0
Ya
i
JA.Y
Fl\
S^RINKA®
UNSHRINKABLE
UNDERWEAR
The extreme comfort of JAY Underwear is ensuring for
it an ever-increasing sale in ail parts of the world. It is
durable, economical, and guaranteed against shrinking.
Made of the Finest Australian Wool
All the wearing parts are strengthened by patented
improvements, and there are no irritating seams. Made
in all weights and sizes for men, women and children.
SOLD BY ALL HOSIERS AND OUTFITTERS.
Wholesale only: I. & R. MORLEY and GEO. BRETTLE & CO., London, England.
N.B.—The genuine JAY UNDERWEAR heirs the above Trade Mark.
AUSTRAL AERATED WATER Machines
m
• ">S
There are ten times as many Austral Aerated
Water Machines in use to-day as any other make.
The Austral Machine is used by all the leading
Hospitals in both Sydney and Melbourne.
Being manufactured here, duplicate parts can
be obtained without delay.
From 250 to 300 dozen of superior quality
Aerated Waters can be made daily with these
machines.
All machines are fitted with the turnover
syruping rack.
Our latest machine is a distinct advance in con-
struction and usefulness on any other machine on
this market.
Write for illustrated and descriptive catalogue.
Manufacturers >F>Y & SONS,
3 Bond Street,
SYDNEY.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
FAS money to lend City or Suburban Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined*, Pastoral and Agricultural Lands or oni the Security
?r f ananTtatrs^rNe e w t X^Ta:d RATES 'of INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors—The Hon. A. W. Meeks. M.L.C., Chairman : Senator the Hon. J. T. "_alker, Deputy-Chairman : Benjamin
Shon Esq : The Hon. James Burns. M.L.C. : The Hon. R. J. Black. M I C.: The Hon uV.lL Winchcon.be M.L.C.,
Adrian Knox, E=q.. K.C. general Manager ana Actuary : Richard Teece. F.l.a K! F ‘^ S '
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, H. W. APIKKLY, Secretary
HEARNE’S
Bronchitis Cure
The Grandest Remedy in the World for
COUGHS & COLDS
ONE DOSE IS GENERALLY SUFFICIENT.
THOSE who have taken this medicine are amazed at
its splendid healing power. Sufferers from Bron-
chitis, Cough, Croup, Asthma, Hoarseness, Difficulty
of Breathing, Pain or Soreness in the Chest, experience
delightful and rapid relief; and to those who are subject
to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a
complete cure. It is most comforting in allaying Irrita-
tion in the Throat and giving Strength to the Voice,
and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become
chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption is
not known where “Coughs” have, on their first appear-
SMALL
SIZE :
2/6
ance, been properly treated with this
medicine. No house should be without
it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose or
two is generally sufficient, and a com-
plete cure is certain.
LARGE
SIZE:
4/6
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS and MEDICINE VENDORS, and
W. G. HEARNE & CO., Ltd., Geelong, Vic.
Forwarded to any Address when not obtainable locally.
N.S.W. Branch Office: 522 George Street, Sydney.
Clements Tonic Saved *2 Life
It may Save Yours if You Need Health. Read this Wonderful Letter.
(Exact copy of letter received.)
CLEMENTS TONIC LIMITED.
It is with the deepest feeling of gratitude that I write to tell you that in rny
opinion Clements Tonic is a remedy of most marvellous powers and the most
wonderful medicine known.
I have been for 28 years in business in Hobart. lam well known to every-
one there, and 24 years ago I was taken very ill with Hydatids of the Liver,
which resulted in several serious operations, and which led to continuous ill-
health afterwards. Like a sick woman will, I tried many experts and their
medicines, and these failing, I resorted to advertised medicines, without regain-
ing my health or strength.
I suffered, as the result of the operations, from LOSS OF MEMORY,
NERVOUS BREAKDOWN, DIZZINESS, CHRONIC INSOMNIA or
LOSS OF SLEEP, POOR APPETITE and INDIGESTION. I could not
walk across the room I was so weak ; in fact, I thought I would never be able
to attend to my business again.
Seeing Clements Tonic advertised, I decided to try a bottle, and found it to
act like magic in giving me an appetite and better nerve strength, sol decided
to continue it, and this is the result: To-day lam alive and well. Although
this critical period of my life happened 24 years ago, I am here m the flesh
to-day thanks to that splendid medicine, which cured me of the ailments
specified in this letter, NERVOUS BREAKDOWN IN PARTICULAR. I
had no more sleepless nights, and in a few weeks, after taking it, I was strong
and well, and used to rise in the morning as happy as a lark. I can give you
the names of dozens of Hobart citizens who know these words are true, also the
name of the chemist there who sold me the tonic, Mr. A. P. Miller, Liverpool
Street, Hobart, and from whose pharmacy I have often bought it since.
I always recommend Clements Tonic to persons in ill-health, because I
know what it is and what its use means for women, and I hope you will use this
letter in the great cause of suffering humanity.
(Signed) MRS. MINNIE NIETOM,
Witness to signature :
Mr. F. Fowler, J.P.,
Enmore, iN .S.W.
132 Liverpool Street,
Hobart,
21st November, 1910.
All rhe Clements Tonic testimonies can be fully verified. In this instance Mrs. Nietom cabled in person,
whilst on a visit to Svdney, and gave this splendid testimony without any request for it. It proves what
Th s splendid medicine ca h really do, and what a boon it is to the rub-down man or woman continuously
out of sorts and ill through worry, over-work or study, hereditary weakness, insomnia or loss of sleep,
constipation, sluggish liver, or kidney irregularities. Women who-have a tendency to anaemia, sick
headache neuralgia, melancholia, nervous breakdown, the result of fever, periodic illness or shock,
should get it and get well. Thousands swear by it and recommend it for use all over Australia, and to this
general all CHemists Stores sell it throughout the Commonwealth. Get it.


We Ask
“WHY ■
COUGH?”
iPHi
V-
Q. What is good for my cough?
A. Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral.
Q. How long has it been used?
A. Seventy years.
Q. Do doctors endorse it ?
A. If not,we would not make it.
Q. Do you publish the formula?
A. Yes. On every bottle.
Q. Any alcohol in it?
A. Not a single drop.
Q. How may I learn more of this?
A. Ask your doctor. He knows.
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral
Prepared by Dr. J, C. Ayer it Co,, Lowell, Mass., U.S. A.
NTS
Collison&Co.
PATENTS and TRADE MARKS
obtained In all countries.
483 Collins St., MELBOURNE.
Eagle Chambers, ADELAIDE
Write us for Inventors’ Guide. EstahlisiikdlB7.7
YOUR EYES!
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
EYE
OINTMENT.
INSTANT
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE IT!
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-. Or by post from
Proprietors, 443 Bourke St., Melbourne.
For RHEUMATISM
and all BLOOD DISORDERS
Packets, 3d., 6d. and Is.
n
Fashionable
Favorite-Perfume
F.WOLFF&SOHH
iil! , |ini|j
F. Wolff &Sohn
PERFUMERS
, KARLSRUHE j
• LONDON mJj
Obtainable from all the Leading Stores.
WHENEVER you see a bear with a Con-
tinent on his back, think of THE LONE
HAND. It’s swag is a Continent.
Good for -
The Children
Every mother knows that there is
no better Cough Medicine for the
little ones than “Bonnington’s Irish
Moss.” Its soothing and healing
properties are at once noticeable. It
is pleasant to take and affords relief
from the first dose.
Guaranteed entirely free from harmful narcotics
BONNINGTON’S IRISH MOSS
gained its place in public favor by sterling worth, and keeps it by the same
unchanged efficiency. For the relief and cure of Coughs and Coldsj Bronchitis,
Whooping Cough, Croup, this remedy is unsurpassed.
BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTES.
Always ask for "BON N I NGTON'S"
1/0 & 2/6.
HEALTHFUL. ECONOMICAL. CONVENIENT.
B/CKFORD_S Essence of Coffee,
“ OUR. JACK” Brand. Fulfils the requirements of the "PURE POODS" Act.
Obtainable Everywhere. 100 CURS FOR IJ6.
A. M. BICKFORD & SONS, LTD., Pitt St„ Sydney; Currie St„ Adelaide ; Elizabeth St„ Melbourne,
An Absolute Cure
Veins
Mr. G. VECSEY,
Founder of the
VECSEY VARIX-ARIUM
Hundreds of people who had suf-
fered for years from Varicose
Ulcers and Varicose Veins, think-
ing themselves incurable through
the repeated failures of various
advisers to do them more than
temporary good, have been entirely and absolutely cured in a
few weeks by a wonderful discovery now being generally
adopted, and known as
THE VECSEY METHOD OF TREATMENT.
It is essentially a home treatment. It requires but a few moments each day out of the 24 hours, and
the godsend it is can be fully appreciated when one realises that it gives substantial relief in bad cases
almost with the first application.
Harmless, positive, efficacious and reliable, this method of treatment offers relief and cure to all who
suffer from this dread complaint. NO laying-up or detention from business.
Ulcers that have defied the known methods of treatment for years have been .successfully healed and
absolutely cured in a few weeks. Varicose Veins that have almost incapacitated their victims, in some
cases totally so, for weeks at a time, have been rapidly eliminated and completely cured.
Mr. H. BASEDOW, of Penrith, writes For over six years I.was an acute sufferer, unable to get
more than temporary relief from the many doctors I had seen. For many nights I would not sleep more
than an hour. Your wonderful treatment has now cured my legs, and restored me to the full use of them.
I shall always be glad to recommend your method.”
WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE BOOK. Consultation FREE.
If you suffer from Varicose Veins or Ulcers, come in and see our chief consult ant. He will explain our
method of cure, and will give you all particulars of this wonderful treatment. No fees for interviews or
advice. IF YOU CANNOT CALL, send 2d. stamp and we will post you a free copy of our Illustrated
Descriptive Book. HOURS—9 a.m. to 5 p.m. daily. ' [1825
THE VECSEY VARIX-ARIUM,
104 LINDEN COURT, SYDNEY
(co ner Market A Castlereagh Streets)
*pl CLASSO/S"
IORUCK^I
Halted milk,
; TS AN
IDEAL FOOD BEVERAGE
BOTH
Nourishing & Invigorating.
In Hot Climates it makes a most
delicious drink for use in Soda
Fountains.
Horlick’s is on draught at
most Chemists in Australia, &c.
On sale by Chemists and Whole-
sale and Retail Stores, &c. Sam-
ples: 82 Pitt St.. Sydney, N.S.W.
HORLICK’S
MALTED MILK CO.
Slough, Eng,
——-r^L
RUPTURE
Do you suffer from this complaint ? No
doubt you wish to becured without operation.
Have you grown tired ol wearing useless
trusses ? Then send for our little book,
giving a full description of our
AUTOMATIC
Air Cushion Appliance
by means of which a permanent cure can be
effected. We positively affirm this in spite ot
the many previous disappointments you may
have had. This appliance is something <n-
tirelv new —is in fact the Best Rupture
Appliance of the Century, and to
prove this to you
WE GIVE YOU TWO DAYS TRIAL
with each appliance that we send out. Perfect
comfort and ease Irom the first day’s use. No
stc 1 bands to torture or galling pads or
leather chafing understraps. The pad is made
of soft pliable rubber, which presses gently
but firmly on the correct spot.
Full Particulars Toited Free
WINSLOW CO.,
261 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
THE DEMON OF DRINK.
HAS HE
GOT YOU ?
Drunkenness, the curse of so many homes, has for
years baffled scientists, but now a remedy has been
found. Dr. Shaw’s Anti-Alcohol (Registered by the
Govts, of Vic. and N.S. W.)is a certain cure—is harm-
less, and can be given secretly or taken voluntarily.
Advice Free. Write or Call. Dr. Shaw’s Establish-
ments, 54 Russell Street, Melbourne; 1161 Hay
Street, Perth, W.A. [2
MILNERS’ SAFES
have the Largest Sale in the World.
SYDNEY : John Keep & Sons, Ltd., Clarence Sfc.
MELBOURNE : Briscoe & Co., Ltd., Lit. Collins St.
BRISBANE : Webster & Co., Ltd., Mart' St.
PERTH : McLean Bros. & Rijrg-.
Aus. Rep.—T. Nicholls, c/o Sydney Agents.
OVRIL
N
v
m.
Tickles the Palate
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Our Kid Retaliates.
I have only just recently learnt to speak—
To be precise, it was yesterday week ;
And I learn with surprise
What I characterise
As libels —to put it more pithily—lies
Have been printed concerning Yours Truly.
Remarks have been made that occasion me pain,
I’ve tried to ignore them, but tried in vain;
For wherever I go
Rude grown-ups say, “Oh,
We’ve heard all about your antics, you
know ;
We’ve read about you in the Bclly ! ”
Whenever I go for my afternoon stroll—
I’ve just learnt to stagger—it harrows my soul
To think of that verse.
If it wasn’t for Nurse—
She’s so easily shocked—l’m sure I could curse—
Dad’s poems are horribly sloppy !
Unaccustomed to writing, I take up my pen
My mummie has hold of my hand ; but then
It’s hard not to blot,
And it wobbles a lot—
fo state that a dadda should promptly be shot
Who out of his kiddie makes copy !
He writes about me as if I were a freak,
But of his own faults lie forgets to speak.
He brings me home toys
That don't make a noise ;
He can’t know the least little bit about boys,
Or how could he be so neglectful !
I don’t think he’s strong ; when I ride on his back
In less than an hour he loses the knack.
Though I want him to stay
In the mornings and play.
He goes a ta-ta to his office each day ;
It doesn’t to me seem respectful.
I forgive him for writing his slushy ohl rimes,
But I find as a father he’s trying at times.
I don’t think I’ve luck
In the daddie I’ve struck ;
Why, when I take some of his matches to suck
He flies into one of his rages !
When I bring him the morning paper in bits,
All carefully torn up, he goes into fits.
It doesn’t seem quite
Good-tempered or right;
And he’s not sympathetic—nor even polite—
When out of his books I tear pages.
And though he my habits has harshly maligned,
I doubt if a stupider father you’d find.
When I wake up at four
He does nothing but snore,
Though I’m ready to play at Big Bears on the
floor.
Oh, he’s not a success as a daddie !
When I poke his eyes open to tell him I’m there,
I’ve frequently heard what I think was a swear.
When I sit on his nose
To wake him he shows
Me none of the gratitude you would suppose
A father would feel for his laddie !
N.S.W.
ARTHUR H. ADAMS JUNIOR.
Spring-tide.
Spring came with skies amber and blue,
Rich color, sweet scent!
I looked in your soft eyes and knew
All Spring’s coming meant,
Birds mating with fabulous song
Love woke in my breast,
A roulade of passion, and long
Lips unto lips prest.
Spring gave the world nothing so sweet
As your maidenhood ;
You laid your young life at my feet
For evil, for good—
Your heart, a voluptuous bird’s,
Homed close to m3' heart,
While I in a torrent of words
Sang madly my part!
About us buds burst, and above,
In Heaven’s deep blue,
The sun in a girdle of love
Ensnared me and you ;
And o’er the green glory of earth
Spring hastened to greet
The love-flower and treasure its worth,
Desirable, sweet.
Spring comes, and to greet her buds blow,
Birds mate in old scenes ;
I look in your soft eyes and know
All Spring’s coming means. . . .
A sunburst of gladness, rare scent,
Rich color, life seems
A vista of Spring-tides o’er-sprent
With passionate dreams 1
N.S.W.
W. M. WHITNEY.
The Beckoning.
Afar is fled the sweet intoxication.
The ruddy marriage torches glimmer low;
And Joy ebbs on, in waves of soft elation,
Around the house where Passion held us so.
And half-expectant, half in fearful wonder,
We venture forward in a foreign land,
Where ’mid the future mists that part asunder
We catch the beck’ning of a baby hand.
QUEENSLAND.
F. BORN.


Combination Couch and Bed.
CHANGED INSTANTLY.
Size when open, 4ft. x 6ft. 7in.
L* -i i * •« « •» .*■ • •"! t \
V- > *r V/‘ V, *}
m
'vl-
closed as couch.
m
kfS
*s»
OPEN AS DOUBLE BED.
Cannot get out of order; is
exceptionally strong and durable.
Just the thing for offices,
small rooms, or where an extra
bed is required.
Invaluable for hotels, boarding-
houses, coffee palaces, and similar
establishments.
Can be had fitted with box, to
act as linen press. Three pieces
of furniture in one.
Elegantly upholstered.
PRICES:
In Cretonne, £4 4s. ; in
Tapestry or American Leather,
£4 1 55.; in Rexine, £5 ss. and
£5 15s. With Box, 20s. extra.
Can only be obtained from
MARCUS CLARK & Co. Ltd.
SYDNEY.
The Bulletin Post Cards.
NEW SERIES. IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve
Packet of Ten
.. Grl
.. 5d
Dwyer’s High-Grade
Vehicles
arc a Delight to the Eye
and a Pleasure to ride in.
Aw srded Over
600 First Prizes.
Factories
/CROWN STREET, WOLLONGONG.
1144-6 KING STREET, NEWTOWN. SYDNEY.
The Goldfields Diamond Drilling Co., Ltd.,
339 Collins Street, MELBOURNE. 79 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Boulder-Road, KALCOORLIE, W.A.
Diamond Drilling and Water Boring Contractors.
Sole Manufacturers of The Victoria Percussion Drill. Asrents for THE SULLIVAN MACHINERY
CO.’S Diamond Drills, Air Compressors, Rock and Air Hammer urins.
Drill Carbons and Spares for Diamond Drills stocked. Full particulars and prices onjrpplication^
Proved to Assist Digestion beyond any Doubt or Question
ABSOLUTELY
PURE.
7*
OBTAINABLE
EVERYWHERE.
The Largest ‘Distillers
in the World.
freebooter
brand
RfClSTfßet)
SQUARE
SCHNAPPS
•T |J PPOOuCt
O u Aftt HOLLAND
proprietors
IffitHEIHArtDJ DISTIIIERJEs
DEI/T HOILAMD
ABDVLLA
CIGARETTES .
Byron had
ABDULLA CIGARETTES
in his mind, when he wrote:
“ Sublime tobacco which from east to west
Cheers the tar’s labor and the Turkman’s rest."
PAWETY&C9LT?
WHOLESALE AGENTS FOR
AUSTRALIA.
m
h
¥
i
Q
Fullest Value —Finest Quality.
The purchasing power of ten large establishments is greater than
that of one. There are ten large Stewart Dawson establishments in
different parts of the world, the buying for which is controlled in
London. When you come to compare our prices with other prices,
carefully keeping in mind the quality and merit of design, the inevitable
conclusion you arrive at is the superiority in value and quality of all
“Treasure House” goods. Send for our Illustrated Catalogue.
J 4925 ISct. Gold, Pearl and Blue Tour-
maline set Pendant. £2/2/-
Gl6B0 —Pearl and Tur-
quoise set, 15ct. Gold
Pendant, 70/-
04178 —lsct. Gold (Palm Leaf) Brooch
Pendant, set with Pink and Green
Tourmalines and Fine White Pearls,
£7/10/-
J4lB—Fine Diamond,
Pearl and Olivine
Pendant, £lB/10/-
dine, set Amethyst,
Green Tourmalines
and Pearls, 25/=
H2o79—Oct. Gold Plain Hand Bangle, £1 7s. 6d. Others
from 21/- to 40/»
The “ Britannic” Expandin': Waicli Bracelet, 9ct. Gold, with
fine Lever Movement, £B/10/- 15ct.. Gold ditto, £l2/10/-
15ct. Gold, Pearl set, £lB/10/-
g>
C5BBl--15ct. Gold and Turquoise set B ingle, £6/15/-
Ditto, 9ct. Gold, £5.
J46B3—Oct. Gold, Pearl and Amethyst set
Necklet, £2/10/-
J299s—Fine Aquamarine
and Pearl set, 15ct. Gold
Pendant, £3/10/-
Stewart Dawson 8 Co.
(Australia),
Strand Corner, 412 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 32.—N0. 1621.
THURSDAY, MARCH 9, 1911.
Prick 6n.
UNCLE SAM AND THE INFANT.
LONDON, February 23. —The New York correspondent of the Daily Telegraph says that the determination of the Commonwealth to discourage the
American Meat Trust is viewed with envious admiration by Americans, who are powerless in the hands of the Trust.-— Cable.
UNCLE SAM: “THAT’S THE MEDICINE, SONNY. I WISH I’D USED IT WHEN I WAS YOUR AGE.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia ior the White Man.”
Printed and Published by William Maclicod, o'
Musprave and McLeod Streets, Mosrnan, for
Tiik Bullictin Newspaper 00., Ltd., at the
Oflice of the Co.. 214 Georgre-street North,
Sydney. N.S. Wales. Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
TELEPHONES : Business, 1384 Central.
Editorial, 257 City.
TEIiMS TO SUItSCTi IBIS RS.
(in Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 IS 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to Tiik Bullktik Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have. Tiik Bullictin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communication
tube addressed to William Maolkod, Managing Director.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to Tun Bullktik would oblige the paver
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bullktik," is the proper
superscription for “copy." Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
oflicials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, ivhere practicable,
acknowledge in the “Correspondence" column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
tree columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
Tiik Bullktik ivill return all unsuitable MS. when the.
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But no
MS. ivill be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. Tiik Bullktik
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to Thu Bullktik original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for dirkct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The. conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Tiik Bullktik is foiivarded direct to agents on account
of Messrs. Gordon and-Gotch (wholesale agents) to
Victoria, West Australia, Queensland, Tasmania, and
Neio Zealand; and on account of Messrs. Atkinson and
Co. and lhgby, Ltd., Adelaide —at 4/S per doz. nett.
Copies of Tiik Bullktik can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gutch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High llolborn, London. W.C.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Capetown;
Dawson and Son, Capetown ; The Central A eivs Agency,
Durban, Natal; and others.
Vancouvkr. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, 8.C.;
Irvine and Forsyth, 44 1 Hastings Street; Norman,
Caple and Co., Stationers.
U.S.A.— lsserlisA., Seattle, Washington ; International
Neivs Agency, Los Angeles ; Chicago Newspaper Agency,
170 Madison Street, Chicago.
Egypt. —'The Colonial Book and Lews Stores, Port Said.
Uong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder-st., Hong Kong.
SiHGAroRK. — Messrs. John Little and Co.
Agents’ Special Notice.
Tiik Bullktik metal advertising plates,size Sjlin. x lUin.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
THURSDAY, MARCH 9, 1911.
THE ANTI-REFERENDA CAMPAIGN TO
DATE.
The first Lord Coleridge once turned to the
jury, after cross-examining a heraldry expert, and
said: “ Why, gentlemen, this foolish person
doesn’t know the rudiments of his own foolish
trade.” It is a sentiment which must occur to
the average citizen who considers the “Liberal ’
objections that have been lodged, so far, to the
Referenda proposals. On the evidence, “Liber-
alism” doesn’t even know the State Fright trade.
Nearly all those who assail the Federal Govern-
ment’s proposals leave details, authorities and
the legal aspect of the question severely alone.
Reliance is mainly placed on a whirling verbal
riot about “ robbery,” “buccaneering,” “filched
rights” and “fractured compacts”—large, abusive
phrases which sound effective enough at street-
corner meetings and so forth, but cut no ice in
cold print. Employing much the same tactics as
G. H. Reid used in his 190 G campaign, the anti-
Nationalists seek to convince the multitude that,
unless success lights on their cause —a cause which,
significantly enough, is barracked for by every one
of the low-wage, Freetrade, Anti-Sosh crowd that
has stood by reaction in the past—some un-
specified calamity will smite Australia. Reid s
menace or spook was a Socialistic liger,
an utterly incredible animal which was going
to destroy the Australian home, abolish the
marriage tie and plunge the country in anarchy
unless its author became Prime Minister. I he
opponents of the Referenda proposals have con-
jured up a similar horror. They blandly ask a
people who are not naturally half-witted, and
who have enjoyed over a quarter of a century of
compulsory education, to credit that the result of
an affirmative vote next month will be the
“spoliation of the States at the hands of the
Federation,” and a condition of things so mtoler-
able as to drive Bruce Smith to revolution and
bloodshed. m „
* * * *
Six years ago Australia examined G. Reid’s
Titter, and decided to treat it with lightsome
indifference, not to say scorn—as a result of which
Reid endured one of the severest biffs of his
career. The electors adopted this attitude be-
cause, being in their right senses, they appreciated
that, under Australia’s present Parliamentary
system, no home-bursting or anarchy could occur
without their approval. And it is the same to-day.
Certainly, if the Commonwealth Government is
granted the amendments it asks for, it will be able
todomany things it cannot doat present. Going on
the Privy Council’s decision in Canada’s case and
the High Court’s judgment on ours, it is unlikely
that, even if Federal legislators wished to, they
would be legally permitted to do the astounding
things, in the way of “ turning the industries of
the Commonwealth upside down ” (to use a recent
Sydney Telegraph phrase), that the State
Frights party says they want to. 1. he trade and
commerce power, as interpreted by the hignest
authorities, does not include the power to regulate
the details of trades. What sane person believes,
anyhow, that the Federal Arbitration Court would
investigate or attempt to investigate an industrial
trouble “ not extending beyond half a dozen mem-
bers of the Bottle Accumulators’ Union, Sydney
—a possibility dangled before State Frightism by
the Sydney Telegraph last Saturday ! But even
assuming an affirmative vote meant that the Aus-
tralian Parliament acquires a free license to
control not only all Australian industries, but, in
addition, every other detailof social life, what then !
It signifies no more than that the Federal Houses
would be invested with the same powers the State
Houses have held since they came into being.
According to the anti-Referendaline of reasoning,
N.S.W., and every other State, lays itself open,
at every general election, to be burgled, devas-
tated and rendered a laughing stock in the eyes of
tho nations. That is to say, at every election it
puts in the hands of its Wades, Woods, Holmans
and McGowens practically unlimited legislative
power. For over half a century N.S.W., like
every other State, has been in the grim position
that, at any moment, its Parliament might
suddenly pass legislation forcing every inhabit-
ant of the State to keep, under penalty of
death, a pet bloodhound, dressed in oilskins.
The N.S. W. Assembly is at liberty, if it feels that
way, to order Sydney to be razed to the ground.
It could declare the excited but innocuous Lee an
outlaw, and have his fellow-agitator, Joe Cook,
drawn and quartered for dropping his aspirates
in public places. Parliament has never done any
of these things. Of course, it never will. The
country possesses the surest of buttresses against
bad, mad or anarchical legislation, namely, the
fact that its electors, being sane, do not send
demented legislators to represent them in Parlia-
ment.
• * * *
Consider the measures which the Fisher
Government is asking for power to put on the
Statute Book. They are so little revolutionary
or evil, in themselves, that ex-Minister Garland,
of N.S. W.— one of the few State Right spokes-
men who have abandoned vague howls about
“ wrongs” and “robbery,” and handled the sug-
gested amendments more or less on their merits
—had this to say concerning them, last week :
They [the proposed amendments] consisted, firstly,
of “ power to give effect to the New Protection policy.”
He was a Freetrader, but if they must have heavy Pro-
tective duties, stuffing the pockets of manufacturers with
money taken from the people to the detriment of the
latter, then he believed in the manufacturer’s employee
getting a fair share of that money—a fair and reasonable
wage. If, in these circumstances, the New Protection
were a separate issue at the Referenda, he ventured to
think it would be carried by an overwhelming majority.
The second requirement of the Federal Government, as
stated by Mr. Hughes, was power over “industrial legis-
lation to cover those matters only partially covered or
altogether neglected by State legislation.” In so far as
giving the Federal,Arbitration Court power to make a
Common Rule, here again he was solid behind Mr.
Hughes; it was only an act of justice. Thirdly, Mr.
Hughes told the State Cabinet that with regard to the
new powers asked for in connection with trade and com-
merce and corporations, “no class of measures not
covered by existing powers is contemplated.” Then why
ask for further powers}
Even Garland, the Freetrader, approves of the
New Protection policy ; and Garland, the anti-
Socialist has nothing against the Common
Rule principle. But he jibs at the Trade and
Commerce clause, and cries, wildly : “Why do
they ask for these further powers ? ” The answer
to a query which is depressingly common, and
which would not be put by one wdio understood
the rudiments of the Referenda case, is that,
under the High Court's decision on the Excise Act,
neither the New Protection nor the Common Rule
may become operative unless the powers asked for
in connection with trade, commerce and corpora-
tions are also granted to the Federal Par-
liament. The State Rights party has been
moaning for days past that the Federal
Government lumped the Referenda questions
together, in an impudent attempt to bull-
doze voters and force those who approved of
the New Protection or Common Rule or both to
also support the hated Commerce Clause, or get
nothing. It was cited as yet another instance of
Labor’s arrogant, coercive temper. This paper
was inclined to think, at first, that herein “ Liber-
alism ” was deliberately slandering the Fisher
Government for party purposes. Garland’s
ingenuous bewilderment, above noted, suggests
that it was not so. Evidently the moans were
uttered not in malice, but in ignorance. State-
Frightism simply doesn’t know its own trade.
The whole situation, in regard to the Referenda
questions, may be stated briefly as follows : Aus-
tralia has an opportunity to give effect to legisla-
tion which, even anti-Laborites recognise, will
ensure a fair wage for workers in every industry
which benefits under the existing tariff. The jus-
tice of that principle is so plain that while the
New Protection proposals were before Parliament,
the most irreconcilable Freetrade papers spoke
vehemently in favor of it. A chance is provided
to for ever scotch the Trusts with which America
is crippled and with which this country is threat-
ened. (A cable of last Thursday mentioned that
America viewed “ with envious admiration,” the
Commonwealth Anti-Trust legislation—the legis-
lation which, though, seemingly, America doesn’t
know it, the High Court has declared ultra vires,
and which must remain so unless the Referenda
questions are carried.) The Federal Arbitration
Court is offered a chance to be of real service to
the nation. In the event of a negative answer to
the Government’s proposals, manufacturers may
continue to enjoy the benefits of the tariff, while
their employees will be liable not to bene-
fit at all, but rather, in many cases, to
be prejudiced by it. Inequality of indus-
trial conditions must arise; one result of
which will be to set inter-State freetrade at
naught. Brown, of Albury (N.S.W.), whose em-
ployees’ wages have been fixed by his State’s
Wages Boards at 455.. will go down (commercially)
before Smith, of Wodonga (Vic.), who only has to
pay his men 40s. And the language discharged
by the “ wronged ” centre at its rival across the
border will be awful. The only coherent objection
to the Australian Government’s proposals that
has been adduced so far is that, in the event of
the Common weal tli being given the powers it
wants in regard to trade and ciimmerce, it may do
something inequitable or. villainous to the States.
Put otherwise, Australia is asked oy local
“ Liberalism ” to reject laws which only last week
Britain’s leading Liberal paper described as “ les-
sons full of instruction for the United Kingdom,
lest the Fisher Government should use them to
“rob” and “plunder” Australians who have put
the FiSHER-ites where they are, and who, assum-
ing the latter behave like lunatics or criminals,
are at liberty to throw them out of public life for
ever. As a working Menace, it is on a par with
W. Elliott Johnson’s assertion during the
“Liberal” campaign against the Australian navy
scheme, that “if an Australian fleet came into
being its guns would be turned on the Mother-
land’s vessels ” —an argument which would be an
insult to the intelligence of a kindergarten class.
HONEST FOOD AND HOW ONE CITY IS
TRYING TO GET IT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Adelaide is lucky in many ways. Colonel Light
took the “office” from Nature, and established
the capital on a site which charms every visitor.
That is good. But there is something better.
The site and the design lend themselves with rare
facility to a faultless system of sanitation. That
is excellent. But there is something better still.
Adelaide is a city whose skirts trail wide sweeps
of lawn, color-splashed by gardens. That is de-
lightful. But there is something even more im-
portant still : Adelaide’s fine effort to secure pure
food for its citizens.
* * * *
The food adulterater is a contemptible and
cowardly thief. The burglar gives you a sport-
ing chance of catching him. He is a brute of
audacious enterprise. But the man who waters
your milk, “doctors” your bread, or crams a
pound of butter with hidden lies is a mean,
sneaking rascal who robs the invalid in the hos-
pital and the baby in the cradle. Adelaide was
late in beginning its campaign against this reptile.
For one tiling, the business had not been quite as
bad there as in many other places; indeed, in
many directions the record had been singularly
happy. But Adelaide had not been free from the
fraud by any means, and the crime was growing.
So the authorities decided to delve seriously into
the iniquity of food-faking. In 1908 the Govern-
ment introduced a Food and Drugs Bill, to repeal
existing laws which for many years had been as
dead as Scrooge. The officials could have been
as dead as him, too, for all the influence they had.
Yet, in the face of this historic farce, the Govern-
ment measure actually provided for “ voluntary”
co-operation on the part of local bodies. Dr.
Borthwick, Officer of Health, and Mr. T. E.
Ellery, Town Clerk, of Adelaide, long-sighted
and long-headed men, saw that it would not do.
Very few do anything voluntarily when it hurts ;
and, as this was going to hurt, the law required
provisions with hooks on them. Dr. Borthwick
and Mr. Ellery seized the skirt of opportunity,
and, with the powerful aid of the Adelaide
City Council, got the voluntary clauses
knocked out; and, before many were aware
of it, Adelaide and suburbs had been fixed with
an amendment embodying the principle of com-
pulsion. Most of the local institutions had been
asleep for 20 years, and they woke up with a
yawn. That was the birth of the Metropolitan
County Board, and Dr. Borthwick and Mr.
Ellery are its proud parents. Who is the father
and who the mother need not be fought out.
There is the child —16 months old, a healthy, pro-
gressive, useful infant.
* * * *
There was no time to lose, and none was lost.
The baby was given a sound constitution. An
advisory Board of technical officers met and fixed
standards. Each member has special qualifica-
tions. There is the chairman of the Central
Board of Health, the Professor of Chemistry
at the University of Adelaide, the Gov-
ernment Analyst, the chairman of the Health
Committee of Adelaide, and three other com-
petent men. The County Board’s field of
authority extends over a 10-mile radius from
the Adelaide Town Hall, and its personnel
is comprehensive enough to give parochial and
vested influence no chance. There is no loop-
hole for the subtlety of personal influence or preju-
dice. That trouble may easily happen with a small
committee ; but this Adelaide body consists of 22
men, representing various districts with various
views about various people and various things.
Then, again, it has been found that the district
delegates have become red-hot champions of the
movement. They have gone out into the little
world of South Australia —east, north, west and
south—preaching the gospel, crusaders for pure
food, Davids using the sword against the Goliath
of adulteration. Inspectors, officers, well-equipped
laboratories and an ambitious programme—the
new machinery started to thump. What has been
done has only emphasised the need to do things
still undone. And the record shows with what
earnestness, and with what zeal, the Metropolitan
Countv Board and its officers have worked.
Standards have been fixed for milk, butter,
margarine, ice-cream, cream, bread, cakes,
cheese, meat, flour, jam and marmalade, biscuits,
pastry, meals, infant food, fruit, jelly, crystals, pre-
served fruit, dried fruit and vinegar. And, later
on, other things will challenge attention—aerated
waters, confectionery, coffee, cocoa and temper-
ance drinks. A spacious net of supervision this,
and so fine in the mesh that only very acrobatic fish
can get out of it. Now, those standards mean
simply that you shall get what you pay for. If the
chemist in the laboratory proves that you are not
getting it—well, then the vendor finds that when
he sold his fake he bought a deal of trouble at the
same time.
* * * *
Not yet, but by-and-bye, the authorities intend
to deal with everything you swallow. When you
read the results of analyses, it makes you shudder
to think what you have passed down your throat
since the faker got abroad in the land—so many
frauds that we can thank Heaven we started off
scratch with our mothers anyway ! The most
elusive food-thief is the milk vendor; and Ade-
laide quickly found it must get a motor-car to
catch him. Dishonesty goes on fleet foot, and the
inspectors can tell of many exciting captures of
these offenders against the confidence of the pur-
chasing public. Samples are bought from the
carts every day, Sundays included. The munici-
pal policeman carries a supply of small bottles.
He takes out three, and has them filled from the
big can. The milk seller may have one for a check
analysis if he pleases. Another is sent to the
Government analyst, the third is kept in
the office. Of course, the milk adulterator
usually says he is as innocent of fraud as
the baby he is starving. But, humanly
speaking, the analysis cannot lie; and there
are the figures. Then excuses trip on the vendors’
tongue. The cow was not up to the mark, and he
had been going to get rid of her for a long time.
Or a boy had turned the tap into the can while he
(the vendor) was in the hospital—and he never
explains how the boy learned the trick. Occa-
sionally the dairyman stands up and argues that
the analyst is a liar. A fine settles the dispute.
Under the County Board law £2O is asked for the
first offence ; after that, £5O and £lOO. If the
initial fraud be a particularly flagrant one, the
magistrate may make the fine £5O, and the next
time the milkman goes to gaol for six months to
think it over. Where there has been a second
conviction the name of the individual is pub-
lished right through the metropolitan area
as a malefactor. And this means that 180,000
people or more, scattered over 155 square
miles hear about him. It is the brand of
Cain. This step has already been taken in one
instance, following a heavy fine. The policy of
“no quarter ’’has had excellent results. Before
the County Board began its campaign for honest
food, milk adulteration, fed by official ineptitude
and administrative inefficiency, was common.
Now, according to the chief inspector: —
In no metropolitan area of equal population in any
part of the world is a purer milk supply, as a whole,
guaranteed to the consumer than is supplied in this
Metropolitan County District.
There is every reason to believe that these big
words are true. The authorities go back to the
source. Dairies are inspected and kept up to the
mark. The Board has the handle of the whip—it
issues the licenses. The habits and history of the
vendors of the milk are noted, and a person with
a communicable disease is promptly dismi se t
from the business. No detail is too small, since t
relates to the people’s food. In the first year of
the Board’s operations 1800 inspections of dairies
were made. It was a busy 12 months for dairy-
men. This year the chief inspector has a bolder
scheme still. He is going to make a bacteriolo-
gical examination of the milk. As a matter of
fact, arrangements have been made already for
examining it for tubercle bacilli. Dr. Borthwick’s
object is to secure such a supply as shall be safe
enough without the pasteurisation and sterilisa-
tion which destroy useful bacteria. An eye is
kept on all consignments of country cream and
butter. As a rule, the merchants heartily co-
operate, and say where the stuff comes from ;
and, hand in hand with a powerful body like the
Central Board of Health, whose-operations ex-
tend far afield, no time is lost in tracing the sup-
pliers who are in need of a few earnest words of
advice. Samples are constantly being obtained,
and these tell the tale. Butter or cream obviously
"off color” is promptly destroyed.
« * * *
Practically the same vigilance is applied to
other food and drink stuffs—meat, fruit, fish, ice-
cream, sweets, beer, whisky, and even Judkins’s
lemonade. The municipal policemen are always
on the beat. No warning is given. The regula-
tions and the date when they will come into
operation are notified, and that is all. The man
who has just bought a pound of sausages may be
an inspector for all the butcher knows. Slaughter-
houses, butchers’ shops and carts, produce markets
and cold stores, ice-cream carts, hotels, jam and
sauce factories, restaurants, grocers’ shops, fruit
shops—the inspectors go to all these places and
more, fossicking after impurities in the people’s
food, buying samples and taking them to labora-
tories.
* * * *
The picture is not all drab. There are bright
patches. On the whole, the campaign has not
been extensively resisted. The County Board
showed it meant business, and, if necessary, fight;
and, after inspecting its powers, the vendor of
foods and drinks mostly saw that for the future it
would pay him to go straight, just as in the
past it may have paid him to go crooked.
Take a few of the analyses, and the tale
need not be adorned. The adulteration of
milk is becoming very rare. Last year no bad
marks could be found against butter, sweets,
spirits and glucose. Of 14 specimens of olive oil,
only one gave evidence of interference. The
County Board has conquered, and is still conquer-
ing ; and its record is beckoning other cities to
come along the same road.
E. W. P.
LABOR IN MAORILAND.
In spite of the long-announced downfall of
Joseph Ward in the 1911 election fight, the
M.L. Premier departs Coronationwards with
Findlay, his chief lieutenant, in that tran-
quil frame of mind familiar only to those
who have at odd times had a “dead bird”
in their possession. Joseph has just completed a
stump of the country waving his new 10 U’s; he has
assured the public that the finances are sound, that
Cohenstein is as affable as of yore, that the
bridge across the creek will be built before the
month is out, that the recent mists of depression
have fled before the rising Loan, that the winter
is over, and the time of the singing of birds is
near, and the voice of the turtle dove will soon
be heard in the land. And the public has
risen from the banquet table, and, witli
champagne in its voice, given three cheers at the
request of the mayor. Meanwhile, Plain Bill
Massey, the leader of the Opposition, is just the
same old Bill, and politically more plain than
ever. His method of fighting the Government is
about as encouraging and definite as knocking
nails in with the butt-end of a sausage ; also the
chance of his mostly-Tory gang again getting
power is as remote as the green hills of Sheol.
Meanwhile, too, Tommy Taylor, thernan who could
probably harass Premier Ward more than any-
body else, has not only taken off his coat to flail
the traducers of Joseph, but has given his word
that, unless Massey complies with certain de-
mands, that gentleman will be politically flayed.
* * * *
There remains only to be considered the position
of direct Labor. The strongest Labor body in the
Dominion at the present time is the Federation of
Labor, composed of the powerful shearers’ and
miners’ unions, and various of the hitherto
scattered and independent trades and labor coun-
cils ; and it is frankly opposed to both Ward
and Massey. What this new' body expects to
do at the coming elections it would be interesting
to know ; but by all the signs it will be nothing to
whoop about. The Federation appears to have
got into the control of some local Petek Bow-
lings, who pursue the millennium with vapor and
other intangible weapons. One of their first
demands was “ a new Constitution giving the
workers of this Dominion full power to control
their own affairs and to meet the needs of their
own life.” Their official manifesto issued last
August concluded :
With Karl Marx, we believe in fighting for the im-
mediate aims, for the enforcement of the monetary inte-
rests of the working class, and, in that bitter stiug = le of
the present, take care of the future.
The president of the Federation agrees with P.
Bowling that, “ had the workers been organised


upon class-conscious lines, making an injury to
one an injury to all, the Newcastle coal-
strike would not have lasted one week.
He says that the need of the present is “a Par-
liament of industry,” whatever that may be, and
the building up of a federation of all labor that
will reflect the intelligence of the working class
a federation that aims first at the education of the
working class in the principles of industrial
unionism and economics. Without an educated
working class, he declares, sound organisation is
impossible; and to this end the M.L. Federation
has purchased much literature on industrial
unionism and economics to distribute amongst
workers as a brain tonic. Said President Webb
recently :
Once the masses think on class fines, it’s good-bye to
craft unionism and Arbitration Court, along with the
capitalist system which produces them. The so-called
Labor leaders will be the servants, not the masters, of
the Labor organisations, and the intelligence of the
thinking mass must and will rise in rebellion against the
chaotic form of Labor organisation which now prevails.
Which may or may not be correct, but it is vague
and unreliable —like M.L.’s Dreadnought, sta-
tioned at Hongkong, will be when war is ham-
mering with both hoofs at the front door of the
Dominion. The dream of a Socialistic Common-
wealth may come in time if the gods and men work
for it, but it is not to be captured by throwing
verbal chaff on the out-going wind. In fact, it
will be found at right angles to Dreamland, at the
end of a long,long road, and the things that
block the way will take a lot of steady shifting.
And the patriot who comes armed, like the M.L.
Labor Federation appears to be, merely with a
vague, high-flown remark, won’t shift much. The
Labor movement in Australia, which is shap-
ing to be the most important in modern
political history, is essentially practical, practi-
cable and fairly simple in its methods. It could
be improved, of course—but not by the views that
Peter Bowling has recently been hawking for
the amazement of the credulous and innocent
Maorilander.
* * * *
All of which is by way of showing that the forces
presently to be opposed to I O U. Ward are not
such as to keep him awake after normal hours
wondering whether the end of 1911 will find him a
broken political jug that went to the pawnshop
once too often. It is perfectly safe to say that
Joseph will still furthur help to wear down the
familiar step at Cohen’s door before the M.L.
Labor party evolves itself into a solid organisa-
tion, with a simple but effective pledge and plat-
form, instead of sky rockets and colored lights.
Which is a great pity.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Some Oversea Opinions of Australian Labor
Legislation.
It is a habit of the local “Liberal” to represent
that vast masses of capital are continually being
diverted from Australia as a result of “ wild-cat
Labor legislation.” It is also claimed that the
Australian Labor party’s doings inspire “think-
ing foreigners” with contempt and distrust.
These large, vague assertions are, in the nature
of things, difficult to rebut. The seeker after
details concerning some specific case where
the Commonwealth was deprived of capital
owing to the machinations of Labor, is gener-
ally referred to a letter which appeared
in Melbourne Argus or Sydney Telegraph
signed “Union Jack” or “ Clapham Junction,
wherein the writer mentioned that he had arrived
in Australia with the object of investing a million
sterling, but, solely owing to the Labor Party s
insensate conduct, had decided to hurry back to
London and take his cash with him. Satisfactory
proof of the oversea nation’s contempt for Aus-
tralian legislation is equally hard to secure. I he
oversea nations never by any chance mention it.
On the other hand, the papers constantly publish
items like these, which appeared in the cable page
of the Australian metropolitan dailies last Tnurs-
day:
London, Tuesday.—Admiral Fremantle, speaking at
the .Navy League dinner, said that Great Britain should
emulate Australia and Maortiand, and secure British sea-
men tor British ships, even at the cost of fewer ships and
some restraint of trade.
Ottawa, Wednesday.—A sensation took place in the
House of Commons last night during the debate on
reciprocity. . . ,
Mr. Clifford Sifton, an ex-Mimster in the Laurif,r
Cabinet, formally abandoned the Liberal party. After
quoling Australian action against the Meat Trust
and pointing out that Canada was exposing herself de-
liberately to similar dangers, Mr. Sifton declared that
the Prairie West was being made Chicago’s back yard.
New York, Tuesday.—The determination of the Com-
monwealth to discourage the American Meat Trust is
viewed with envious admiration by the Americans wdio
are powerless in the hands of the Trust.
As recently as last Federal elections the Liberal
party laid it down that if the Laborites continued
to insist on living conditions and a wages schedule
in the Australian coastal trade, designed to
attract white men of British extraction,
the United Kingdom would regard this coun-
try as hurrying to its doom. For 10 years
Australian Laborites have advocated the employ-
ment of none but white men on ships trading
between Australian ports; and for 10 years
“Liberalism” has barracked for Lascars and
Seedy boys—in the name of England ! And
now it is an English Admiral, possessed of special
knowledge, who tells the indigenous “Liberal”
that he is an ass. The Labor party’s anti-Trust
legislation has always caused “Liberalism” par-
ticular apprehension. It was going to do Aus-
tralia more harm in the way of demonstrating to
foreigners that this country was quite mad than
the Graduated Land Tax itself. The American and
Canadian viewpoint is that they wish to Heaven
they had an instalment of the alleged Curse
themselves. It is not too much to say that
Australia’s efforts to deal with the Trust evil have
given the Commonwealth the best advt. it has
ever had in the U.S. In the last few months the
British Government has adopted, practically in
its entirety, Australia’s Alien Immigration Re-
striction Act —the measure which evoked the
Petriana lie and which George Reid pronounced
“a blot upon civilisation.” According to the
newly-arrived Admiral King-Hall, the authori-
ties at the British Admiralty and War Office have
“nothing but admiration for Australia’s plucky
and self-respecting determination to defend itself
on land and sea.” Nor did he so much as hint at
the "Liberal” defence alternative of hired
British ships and an occasional presentation
Dreadnought. It was said of Oliver Cromwell
that “he first made the British navy feared
abroad.” Similarly, the Australian Labor party
may claim that it has provided the first Govern-
ment whose measures won the “ envious admira-
tion ” of foreign countries.
A N.S.W. ’‘Argument” Against the
Referenda.
A true-blue Geebung erupted in the Sydney
press last week as follows:
A large proportion of the Labor party will vote “ No ”
to those questions that affect State Rights. The incident
over the Federal loan business showed them that Victoria
was first in the field in grabbing what she could of the
loan money available. I do not blame her either, for she
is playing for keeps, which is one of the first laws of
nature, and we should do the same. But we will not be
doing it if we surrender our State Rights.
The grotesque suggestion that N. S. Wales was
“wronged” because Victoria burst into the
Federal Mont de Piete a pace or so ahead of her,
would be negligible were it not apparent
that the “Victorian oppression” gag is to
be used freely by the baser sort of N. S.
Wales “Liberal” during the Referenda cam-
paign. Already the Ma State Storeys, Lees and
Onslows are wailing about the possibility of
“Melbourne domination”; and they forecast
“ruin” for their State if anything of the sort
comes to pass. It is an ancient and utterly dis-
credited line of argument. Old John Robertson
originated the gospel of fear and hatred of Vic-
toria nearly half a century ago. In those days the
patriotic Sydney importer spat with fury when a
Victorian entered the Reform Club. Various
N.S.W. politicians carried on the evil old tradi-
tion. It reached its full expression during the
fight for Federation. Jack Want described
the inhabitants of Victoria as " thieves and
wolves.” In George Reid’s famous contest with
Barton, East Sydney was placarded with posters
stating that Reid’s pro-Bill opponent had been
“bought with Victorian gold.” The Sydney
Telegraph, in a leading article, propounded the
view that “Victorians were only united in the
desire to plunder N. S. Wales.” These slanders
undoubtedly won a lot of votes for the anti-
national cause. And they are expected to do it
again. A decade ago the State Fright alarmist
cried that N.S.W. would be ruined if Federation
came to pass. Now he howls that N.S.W. will
be ruined unless the Referenda questions are
negatived. Now, as then, there is a complete
absence of details as to how the catastrophe is
going to occur. In a flood of whirling words
the Wades and Woods lay it down that, if the
Referenda are carried (1) the Victorians of the
Australian Parliament will be invested with cer-
tain vague, new “powers” to harm N. S. Wales;
(2) that they will instantly use them. On pre-
cisely similar lines 11 years ago the anti-National-
ists of N.S.W.—the identical people who are now
fighting the Referenda proposals—predicted ruin
to N. S. Wales at the hands of Victoria, if Feder-
ation was accomplished. And this is what the
S. M. Herald (13/2/T1) had to say concerning their
prophecies:—
N.S.W. is enjoying a period of vast material progress.
Every test that can be applied proves this. The returns
of oversea trade, the inter-State movements, the expand-
ing railway earnings, the record bank’s clearing-house
figures, the reports of our industrial undertakings, the
volume of business on the investment side of the stock
and share market which has never been larger, the out-
put of our factories, the buoyant state of the labor
market, and the extreme difficulty in getting some classes
of labor at all, all point in one direction, and that is of
unexampled progress.
Nor do the most rabid of one-time anti-Federalists
question the truth of that assertion. The
N.S.W. elector should judge the N.S.W. State
Fright prophet of disaster on his past form. This
wordy fraud has foreseen the downfall of the
State, in every national measure that has been
proposed within living memory. Meanwhile, the
State has grown steadily richer. Not one of his
prophecies has been fulfilled. It is surely a fair
thing to conclude that none of the demented
tilings ever will be fulfilled—and to vote accord-
ingly.
♦
The People Who Are Expected to be Grate-
ful for Being Used as Bait.
When Premier John Weary arrives back in Vic-
toria from his Coronation jaur.t—if he doesn’t
happen to stay iD the Ageut-General’s office—
there will be a pleasant surprise waiting for him.
The State elections will be drawing close ; and
one of the first noises he will hear from the deck
of the incoming steamer will be the speeches of
Labor candidates; and, with one accord, they will
be explaining how the State Land Tax came to be
imposed. So, as soon as John Weary lands, he
will have to get to work to explain matters and
answer questions; and some of the questions, like
those the Queen of Sheba put to Solomon
some time ago, will be very hard to answer.
There is no doubt that, when the Weary
Government imposed its land tax, it did
so with the deliberate object of putting a spoke
in the wheel of Labor. It was loudly avowed
that the tax was necessary on account sometimes
of the prodigality, and at other times of the par-
simony, of the Federal Labor Government. Then
the exemption was cut down to £250, so as to
catch almost all land-owners; but, as showing
conclusively that revenue was not really wanted,
the tax was, in a very off-hand manner, reduced
from a penny to a half-penny in the pound. The
best proof of the conspiracy, however, was the
haste with which theFatmen passed the measure.
Finally, after the Bill had been passed, the admin-
istration was made as irritating as possible. The
Federal Government announces that owners of
less than £3OOO worth of unimproved land-value
need not send in returns at all. But every
land-owner in Victoria has to fill up his
form and send it along, even though he owns
only a pocket-handkerchief allotment. Even the
trustees of cemeteries have to send in returns.
At first, as Premier Weary expected, the Labor
party was heartily cursed. But then the Labor
men began to have a few words to say ; and, as
time goes on, they will have many more things to
say. Especially they will ask what the land-
owner, and especially the small landowner, thinks
of a friend who will deliberately put a piece of
steel through his (the landowner’s) innards for
the express purpose of making him believe
that the injury was done by somebody else.
John Weary and his “Liberal” Government want
to catch the fish of office at the next elections;
and the Labor party will ask the small landowner
what he thinks of a “ friend ” who will put him,
wriggling, on the hook in order to land the fish.
For that is the position : The Weary Government
has jabbed the hook through the small landowner,
in spite of the protest of the Labor party, whose
members sought to raise the exemption. Now,
the small landowner is expected to be grateful to
the Government which used him as bait. Well,
John Weary will see when he comes back.
The Sanctity of Water-Melons.
The Fatman’s indifference to life and limb where
the sacred rights of Propputty are involved was
naively instanced in the N.S.W. law courts a few
days back. One Rowland, a mere lad, with some
other lads, one evening last year invaded the holy
domain of a Parramatta fruit-grower, with the
objectof “lifting” a melonortwo. Before they had
the chance of exploiting the melon patch, however,
Propputty was right on top of them with a loaded
gun. They ran off ; but Propputty, strong with
the instincts of his class that human life is a cheap
and paltry affair beside a melon or two, fired on
the retreating boys. Rowland received over
30 pellets in his legs and lower body, was taken
home by cart in a state of collapse,
and was for 14 days in hospital. Then Prop-
putty, to rub salt in the unfortunate lad’s
wounds, prosecuted him for trespass; whereupon
the magistrate, keeping sternly in view the
sanctity of water-melons, fined the lad 31s. 6d.,
with the option of gaol if he didn’t pay. As a
matter of law, the shooting was as entirely with-
out justification as the trespass; and Rowland
thereupon sued Propputty in the Supreme Court
for damages for his very serious injuries. At the
trial, Justice Pring told the jury that its task was
simply to assess the damages, as the plaintiff
legally was entitled to full compensation for his
injuries. But the jury, men of propputty (all
Supreme Court jurors are men of propputty),
still keeping in view the divine rights of water-
melons, awarded the plaintiff one farthing ! An
attempt was made, last week, to induce the Full
Court of N.S.W. to send the case down for a
re-assessment of damages on the ground that a
farthing was utterly incommensurate with the in-
juries inflicted ; but the Court, while frankly
admitting that Propputty had no shadow of right
for the shooting, refused to disturb the verdict.
So the boy Rowland has been shot down and also
fined 31s. 6d.; and itnowstandsforlawin N.S.W.
that the pettiest coin of the realm is ample com-
pensation for him. Years ago in England, by the
harshness of the law, 1 fe-transportation followed
as a matter of course acts of paltry theft. This
was properly abolished long since. But now a
propertied jury of N.S.W. has invented a scheme
of self-help in substitution. “Don’t rely on the
law,” it says ; “protect your pumpkins yourself
with a gun. And if you chance to shoot a man—
pooh ! Life and limb are very cheap. Keep a
farthing ready and we’ll stand by you 1 ”
The Enemies Within.
Frank Lundie, the thin piece of wire and whip-
cord who does most of the cracking for the
A.W.U. in S. Aus., got a very necessary lump of
ice down his back the other day. Lcndie’s idea
seems to be that it isn’t any use having Labor
Governments in office unless Laborites make the
pace hot while their rule lasts; consequently, he
and a few Other “Dreadnoughts” have been
shaking S. Aus. up, and doing things which they
wouldn’t have dared to do if Labor Governments
had not been in power. First, there was the
laborers’ trouble, over which they tied Verran in
a knot; then the carters’ trouble, in connection
with which there was a nearer approach to an-
archy than there has been in regard to any other
labor trouble in Australia for many years past;
and, finally, there were ructions between the Mil-
dura (Vic.) and Renmark (S.A.) fruit-growers and
their employees. It was in connection with this
last trouble that the ice was applied where it was
badly wanted. Since the dispute affected more
than one State, Justice Higgins, of the Common-
wealth Arbitration Court, summoned a confer-
ence. Lundie, allegedly for the Laborers’ Union,
answered exactly as he has been answering
Verran, the S. Australian Premier: “We will
settle quicker and more satisfactorily without your
aid,” with the additional information that they
wouldn’t send representatives. The ice arrived in
the shape of a telegram that Mr. Lundie and his
colleagues had better think over it, and if they
didn’t change their minds quickly a tine of £5OO
would follow for a start. It was so unlike the
reply that the S. Australian Government has been
in the habit of giving, that Mr. Lundie and his col-
leagues thought over it very promptly. Attorney-
General Hughes supplemented the ice with some
acid, and between the two it is to be hoped they
will mend Lundie’s ways, not only for his own
good, but for the good of the small tribe he repre-
sents. No sooner had McGowen become Premier
in N.S.W. than he had trouble with the same
kind of people. In that case Griffith did the
plain talking. Unfortunately, there was nobody
to do it in S. Aus. Verran is a weak man, and
Lundie and his little group knew it. The true
friend of the Labor party would have taken par-
ticular care not to expose that weakness by trad-
ing on it. But that would have called for
a larger view and more self-denial than they
were capable of ; they preferred to snatch a tem-
porary victory at the expense of the prestige of
Labor Governments.-* And their leader richly
merits all he has got from Justice Higgins and
the spokesman of the Commonwealth Govern-
ment. His own union might now appropriately
follow it up with some pointed words of counsel.
Manning the Australian Navy.
The Old Soldier’s views :
“ W.M.” (B. 23/2/’ll) makes remarks about the Aus-
tralian warships. He wants someone to suggest to Mr.
Feauck, the Minister for Defence, that the men, presum-
ably on board the new destroyers, should be given better
sleeping and eating quarters. He wants the quarters 10
times bigger, and 1000 times better ventilated. “ W.M.”
does not say where space is to be found for the enlarge-
ments. The modern warship is nothing but a big iron
box of machinery, always, in the nature of things, un-
comfortable to live in. In the British navy, crews of
destroyers, when they live on board, get an allowance
called “hard-lying money." There is good reason, no
doubt, for “W.M.’s” complaint; but it applies to all
modern warships. The space occupied on a, battleship by
the gun-mountings, which have to be built into the frame
of the ship, is enormous. Then there are the ammuni-
tion-hoists, one for each turret, and secondary gun-
positions, to secure the safety of the excessively-
dangerous ammunition on its way from the magazine to
the gun. On the larger ships the crews have certainly
more cubic space per man than on destroyers, but even
they are crowded. The ventilation difficulty is always
felt on modern warships. There are few or no portholes;
they weaken the sides. And it is still worse in action, be-
cause, as every pound of available power is then wanted
to drive the ship and work the armament, there is none
to spare for the air-pumps. It is quite possible that if aa
action were very severe and long-continued, someone down
below, especially among the sick and wounded, would be
suffocated before it was over. That, of course, would be
with things at their worst. Yet with things at their best,
the modern warship is not the sort of place to choose for
a permanent residence. It is built for fighting, not for
living in. Nevertheless, the inconvenience does not ex-
plain why only three men re-engaged out of 79 who had
finished their five years’ term of service here recently. If
all that “ W.M.” wants were provided, two more might
have engaged for another five years ; but it is unlikely.
No ; if the Commonwealth intends to do anything with
its navy it must provide depot ships or barracks for the
crews when they are not at sea, so that they can have a
good rest on shore between cruises, and it must also give
them a £lO or £2O bounty on re-engaging, and higher pay.
If it cannot make up its mind to that, the only thing is
compulsion—national service, in fact. Now, which will
it choose? National service means short service—three
years at most. The present volunteer folly means long
service, difficult recruiting and constant shortness of men,
unless high bounties are paid and costly privileges given.
<♦
Beer.
“ Curse o’ Moses ” reflects on humanity :
The word has gone forth that beer is to have its sting
drawn, and to make glad (or sad) the heart of man with-
out producing the malady which fills the all-night trams
with song. There is joy in Wowserdom over the an-
nouncement, and arrangements are being made to pro-
perly inaugurate the millennium which must follow.
Tankards will still foam and gilded locks bow over shining
beer-pumps ; but the devil in the cup will have taken his
way back to the eternal Tophet. In England, where the
purgation of the tipple is recorded as having begun, they
probably know all about it by this time. Already John
Smith is swearfully wondering what has happened to him
that his thirst should be so thoroughly quenched while
his soul remains sad. Unfortunately for the Wowser side
of the calamity, there is no living person who really likes
beer for its taste and color alone. If man were a wholly
natural animal, active, naked, hairy and unworried, he
would prefer plain water to every other drink. Unfor-
tunately, again, man is civilised. He puts himself under
a tremendous mental and nervous strain, in order to live
an altogether unnatural life, and every fibre of his being
cries out for something to ease the tension. Alcohol does
it at a price. The price is big, but he deliberately decides
to pay the bill. The truth which every Wowser misses,
and which every person who tries to pull the fangs of
beer will find himself up against, is just this : A reason-
able amount of alcohol makes a man feel exactly as he
ought to feel without it. The only line that the beer-
emasculator can safely take is to preach a gospel of pure
animalism. Let us abolish cities and farms, mines and
ships, schools and hash-houses, cleanliness and trousers,
and all the varied and complicated enormities that go to
make up civilisation, and go out to face nature with
neither shame nor pride. Then we may be able to untie
Civil War.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We are on the eve of a civil war.—B. Smith.
It is revolution.—Solemn Lee.
I heard a most terrific little row,
Making a gentle uproar on the heights
Of frighted balconies. I heard the jar
As of grey tomcats in tormented nights;
And someone mentioned that a civil war
Was then in progress. Horror, like a cow.
Sat on my chest and smothered all delights.
Clear were the 6kies, soft was the pleasant sea,
But all my heart was wrapt in horrent gloom ;
I dreamt of fields of death and vales of woe,
And thought to hear the awful cannon boom,
And brazen-throated trumpets start to blow
Like German bands gone mad. I thought to see
Men, like fat mutton, rushing on their doom.
A civil war ! Great Scott! My brothers bleed !
Somewhere the loud bolt shrieks along the sky.
The flames of burning cities, slaughter-red,
Lift their appealing clamor. Women fly
Affrighted through the havoc, and the dead
Are absolutely corpses. Gory steed
And mangled rider in red ruin lie.
Give me a sword ! A butcher’s knife will do.
Where is the battle, where the ensanguined row?
What is the racket over, and who wins ?
I must away to slay the blood-stained cow
Who smote my brother ! Our Australian sins
Are heavy on our shoulders. Strike me blue !
The mark of Cain is on the nation’s brow !
I followed that terrific little row
Until I found a place of swinging lights.
High-set on a suburban balcony,
And found a small collection of State Frights
Throwing some words at William Smith and me
Words that seemed weighty as the zealous wow
Of the house-poodle yelping e’er he bites.
The speakers did not fill me with much dread ;
Their angry words provoked a weary smile
From those who gathered round them. Though
they threw
Some rocks that missed Australia by a mile,
They seemed a rather tame and worn-out crew ;
And as I listened one dull speaker said—
“ This is a civil war.” And then I knew.
I knew it was a very civil war-
A war with mops against a rising tide ;
A war with broomsticks ’gainst a giant’s flail;
A war in which the only things that died
Were spite and malice, and some odors stale
Of long-departed fishes. Scratch or scar
The gods to such a battle had denied.
A civil war ! Great Scott! And this was all!
Fat’s last, lorn hirelings in their sorry plight,
Making a bluster and a dull pretence
Of keeping up an ancient parish spite
To save Australia from plain common-sense.
War ! Let the six-legged cockroach fiercely crawl
To battle with the snining stars of night!
N.S.W.
MARY McCOMMONWRALTH.
Room for the White Man For’ard?
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
London, Ist March.—At the Navy League dinner last
night Admiral Sir E. R. Fremantle said Great Britain
should emulate Australia and Maoriland, and secure
British seamen for British ships, even at the cost of fewer
ships and some restraint of trade.— Cable.
From th’ Thames to Madagascar,
An’ from Glasgow to ’Ong Kong,
We’re relyiu’ on th’ Lascar
For to shove th’ ships along.
’E will ’andle coals or cargo,
’E will polish brass or plates,
From Colombo to Otago—
An’ ’e wants no White Man’s rates.
Is there room for th’ White Man for'ard ?
Is there room for an ’Art of Oak ?
For th’ smelt of th’ nig is ’orrid.
An’ ’c isn’t a decent bloke.
’K ain't no good when there's trouble,
For 'e ain't got any nerve !
Will yer send ’im ’ome at th’ double.
For a reel White Naval Reserve !
When lead flies th’ nig’sa starter
For the bunkers or the bush,
For ’e ain’t no bleedin’ martyr ;
So ’e never needs no push
When th’ friends of ’is good bosses
Starts to give ’is bosses ’ell;
’E just jabbers to ’is josses
An’ goes ’omeward like a shell.
Is there room for th’ white man for’ard l
Is there room for an ’Art of Oak l
Me sea-kit ain’t much, ’cause it’s borrurcd,
An’ me family plate’s in soak;
Th’ Admiral says that yer need me —
Which I’m willin’ to bet is true.
I’ll sign on if yer'll pay an’ feed me,
An’ I’ll fight later on for you!
N.S.W.
JOE SALT.


The electors are not lacking in counsellors
as to how to vote on the Referendum. But the
“free and independent,” who is not entirely
dominated by party, will obtain the best
counsel to independent thought from D.C.L.
Wisdom. The happiest results to personal and
collective progress eventuate from following the
cheerful inspiration df D.C.L., the Whisky of
the Wise.*
BEARD’S British - Built Bioscope,
second to none. Sole Agents—Jerdan’s
Ltd., 393 George Street, Sydney. Let us send
you particulars.*
Nipped in the Bud.
A cold, cough or influenza can be nipped in the
bud by a few doses of Dr. Sheldon’s New Dis-
covery for coughs and colds. Price Is. 6d. and 3s.*
HARRINGTONS LTD.,
The Cinematograph
Supply House.
The largest assortment of CINEMATOGRAPHS AND
FILMS always in stock by the World’s besr, makers.
If you want to procure a better supply of Films than
you are obtaining at present, get into communication
with us and state your requirements. Our Film
Library is the largest in the Commonwealth.
We are the people to give you satisfaction.
SYDNEY—MELBOURNE—BRISBANE—ADELAIDE.
Every day the man on the land tends to become
a man on or at a machine ; and the time is coming when
he will need to be an engineer, as well as a farmer. It is
the oil engine that is working this tremendous revolution ;
and already it has lifted a good deal of the heavy drudgery
the tiller of the soil had to tackle. For farm or station
simplicity of construction should be the keynote. Good
results cannot be expected from mechanical puzzles; it
annoys any man to find that he has purchased a box of
elusive tricks instead of an easily managed engine.
Steadiness, reliability and endurance ; these you must
get, and one great safeguard is to have an Australian
guarantee. All theserequirementsaremetby the engines
supplied by the Invincible Motor Construction Co. Ltd.
As to simplicity—anyone can operate these engines. As
to strength—their guaranteed horse-power is much below
their actual power. As to the guarantee—the great
Works of the Invincible Co. at Woolwich, Sydney, stand
behind the Five Years’ Guarantee given by the co. A five
years’ guarantee remember, given by the leading Aus-
tralian concern in this line.
Write for illustrated lists. Invincible Motor Construc-
tion Co., Ltd., Works Woolwich, Sydney. Showrooms,
35 fitt Street, Sydney. And at Melbourne and Adelaide.*
Franz Josef
Eag'er Beer
SparKling,
Refreshing',
Exhilarating'
and Pure.
Franz Josef possesses the true Lager quality
and character, being sharp, clean, and of
light gravity.
the cord that alcohol has twisted round humanity. Of
course, it can’t be done all at once ; but in a million years
or so the primitive taste for water might perhaps return
to us. Meanwhile, beer is beer ; and if beer be unbeered,
wherewith shall it be beered again 7
Now that the premature retirement of Lord
Dudley from the position of Governor-General is
definitely announced, and previous contradictions
of rumors are proved to have been mere coquetting
with the truth, it seems reasonable to ask that
future occupants of the most highly-paid office in
the Commonwealth shall be required to take it
seriously. The reasons, genuine or otherwise,
given for Lord Dudley’s retirement are very
good reasons why he should never have
been appointed. We are gravely informed
that he and his wife “ naturally desire to be near
their children, who are about to resume their
schooling in Great Britain.” Obviously, an earl
whose young children are bound to be educated in
Britain, and who wishes to live within 12,000
miles of them, is unfitted for an appointment to
five years of Governor-Generalling in Australia.
Such a one comes here on a political mission with
the certain knowledge that he will not wish to
fulfil it. All things considered, an Australian-
born Governor, possessed of an Australian wife,
would seem to be the only sort of Excellency
likely to regard this country as “home” for a
long period, and unlikely to be suddenly attracted
to Britain for domestic reasons. If an Excellency
is essential to the Constitution, his position is
worthy of being taken seriously. Therefore, the
practice of appointing figureheads who merely
desire to put in two or three years “ abroad,” and
are humming “Home, Sweet Home” all the time,
should be promptly discontinued.
Melbourne Trades Hall Council struck an awk-
ward subject for discussion the other night. A
delegate moved: “That this Council gives its
unanimous support to the Shop Assistants’ and
Warehouse Employees’ Federation of Australia
(Vic. branch), in the endeavor to abolish trading
after 6 o’clock on Friday nights.” Let it be noted
that the S.A. and W.E.F., although affiliated
with the Trades Hall, doesn’ttalkof bringing strike
force to bear on the employers of shop and ware-
house labor. It merely asks for the support of the
Trades Hall in an endeavor to procure the rule of
6 o’clock closing on Fridays, the day when shop-
keepers are authorised by law to keep their em-
ployees at work until 10 p.m. And the Trades
Hall Council, apparently, is indisposed to give the
support asked for. Thus unionism is in conflict
with unionism. The Labor which stands solid in de-
fence of the Eight Hours principle candidly admits
itself unfavorable to that principle where other
sorts of Labor are concerned. Workers who
claim a monopoly of the title protest that exces-
sive labor for shop hands, on at least one day a
week, is necessary to the convenience of fac-
tory hands and other workers. They would
thus sacrifice Peter to suit Paul. In short,
they are now confronted with the fact that,
whereas trades unionism has hitherto professed
anxiety to extend the eight-hours principle to all
branches of labor, and has sneered loudly at the
black-coated and “ genteel ” worker who remained
outside the Trades Hall sphere of influence,
they are not actually prepared to do unto their
black-coated brother as they do unto themselves.
To tell the bald truth, Labor— i.e., the Labor
which in Melbourne returns members to Parlia-
ment —brooks no interference with its personal
convenience. At the Trades Hall the other night
it talked of “the needs of the people” in a
purely class spirit. It was thinking only of the
workers in trades who knock off work at 5 p.m.
They are the people for whom shop employees
must stick to an unhealthy occupation for 13 hours
on Fridays.
:
A few banks and other companies which make
all, or practically all, their profits in Australia
have their head-offices in London ; and some of
these concerns have lately developed a habit of
refusing to transfer shares from the London to
the Australian register. The real objection, no
doubt, is, not to Australian shareholders, but to
the possible loss of control and the pickings
which attach thereto. This is not a ques-
tion of compelling foreign shareholders to
sell to Australians. But if Australians,
among whom the profit is made, choose to pay
the price which English shareholders ask, then
no co. which is permitted to do business in
Australia should be allowed to practically refuse
to the Australian the right to buy. Australia has
money to invest now ; and, from the national
point of view, it cannot invest some of that money
better than in buying shares, the dividends on
which are sent out of the country. Every foreign-
held share means a debt by this country to some
other country ; and the purchase of that share by
an Australian means the extinction of that debt.
Any rule or regulation adopted by a private
co. to prevent that purchase is therefore an
attempt to keep this country in debt to the
foreigner, and to compel this country to earn
dividends not for its own people, but for
some foreign people. The Australian Govern-
ment has not the right to say to the com-
pany with a foreign registration: “You shall
transfer shares to an Australian register if an
Australian buys them.” But it has the right to
say: “ You shall not do business and make pro-
fits in Australia unless you establish an Austra-
lian register, and give Australians the right to
buy from the foreign shareholder and transfer to
the Australian register without restriction.” And
no Commonwealth Companies Act will be com-
plete unless it says that unmistakably.
Colonel Ryrie, the dull, uninteresting person
who is carrying the-half-mast flag of Toryism in
the North Sydney Federal by-election, asked a
meeting the other evening why the Commonwealth
should “control all labor and industry and leave
the State Government with nothing but the con-
trol of diseased meat, obscene literature and the
cemeteries.” if Ryrie had taken the trouble to
read the S. M. Herald that day he would have
been given one reason why Frights should
be permitted to administer only dead meat.
Referring to the desolation of 65,000,000 acres of
Western land, handed over at various times by
past “Liberal” Governments to their friends the
big grazing lessees, the paper said :
The carrying capacity of the country is small. It used
not to be so low, but the greed of the early lessees in
overstocking the country and their half-hearted attempts
to cope with the rabbit pest caused the disappearance of
some of the best fodder plants. And when grasses
and herbage became scarce, edible trees and shrubs were
ruthlessly cut down and left to rot, instead of being
lopped. Thus the soil, mostly of a sandy nature, lost the
factors that bound it together, and the extraordinarily
high winds that prevail at times in the west lifted the
soil in the air, converted level ground into a succession
of sand hummocks, which continually shifted according
to the strength of the wind. The so-called “ Darling
showers” were the outcome of the denudation of the land.
That is what the Frights party, of which Ryrie
is a representative, can do in a State Lands
Department when it is not hampered by an
overbearing, tyrannical national Parliament. And
that is only one instance in one department. The
other failures, and jobberies, and crab-walking,
and parochial meannesses, and utter futilities are
matters of history which Ryrie may read for hin? :
self if he is so ignorant that he does not already
know them.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Via Wireless.”
Royal “ Cur Miss Gibbs.”
Palace “ Message from Mars.”
Criterion “The Belle of Brittany.”
Glaciarium West’s Pictures.
Tivoli Rickards’ Vaudeville.
Lyceum Spencer’s Pictures.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Opera House Riokards’ Vaudeville Co
Her Majesty’s “ Jack and the Beanstalk.”
Royai “ Lucky Durham.”
King’s “Revenge.”
Princess’s “ Why Men Love Women.’
West’s Palace West’s Pictures.
Glaciarium Taits’Pictures.
Open Air, St. Hilda .. The 'Follies.
Olympia Spencer’s Pictures.
4.
Pinkney is manager of Durant’s steel
works, and not so much a villain —in the sense
the chronic melodrama-patron understands the
term —as a person of weak and reckless character.
By comparison with one of Bilanderson’s full-
blooded, gore-stained machinators, he is a mere
anaemic Wowser. Lieut. Sommers, naval officer
and inventor of the Sommers gun, resembles a
human being more than he does a stage hero.
They both love Frances Durant, who in no wise
differs from any other fair young girl in a hobble
skirt. Marsh is one of Durant’s employees, a
gun-inventor and a perfectly credible old toiler.
Pinkney has swindled Marsh out of 90 per
cent, of the royalties due on his invention,
assuming it proves a success ; but of this Marsh
is ignorant. The demon jealousy impels Pink-
ney to procure the ruin of Sommers’ gun in the
forging. Sommers suffers from the trouble which
afflicts lads of the hero breed wherever the drama
flourishes—namely, rank, blithering, chuckle-
headedness. Being warned that there is shady
work afoot, he turns up at Durant’s to see his
weapon forged. The man in charge of the job is
fighting-drunk, and ill fitted, in consequence, for
the deed of subtle villainy he has to perform.
But Sommers sees nothing. His gun is destroyed
before his eyes. All he achieves by his visit is
an absurd suspicion that the blameless Frances
has been misbehaving herself in a locked office
with Pinkney. The parties are next discovered
at Madeira. A Scotland Yard detective informs
Sommers that his gun has burst, killing and
maiming several innocent seamen. All hands start
aboard Durant’s yacht for England and an
“ enquiry.” How the yacht runs on a reef, how
her whereabouts are made known, by wireless, to
the Mongolian ; how that immense vessel steams
to within 3ft. of the wrecked passengers and hauls
them aboard with a rope, require to be seen to be
appreciated. Pinkney’s undoing and subsequent
removal by the Law occur in time to allow the
suburbanite two (2) alcoholic nerve-soothers before
flinging himself aboard his last tram.
“ VIA WIRELESS ,” AT SYDNEY HER
MAJESTY'S.
Ambrose Manning as
Marsh (in the toils
of the villain).
Eardley Turner as the
gun manufacturer and
kindly old father.
Such is “ Via Wireless,” which was pro-
duced at Her Majesty’s, Sydney, last Saturday
night. The writer regards it as a deliberate
attempt to undermine practically all the melo-
dramatic traditions that have come down to us,
through Bland Holt and his rivals, from London
Adelphi and the old Surrey-side playhouses. Not
a single revolver, howitzer, rifle or fowling-piece
is discharged in the entire show. The villain is a
non-smoker. The hero flaunts the deadly cigar-
ette in the eyes of his worshippers. There is no
cloaked, betrayed and distracted female; no angel
child ; no infuriated father avid for blood ; no lost
marriage lines, Faces at the Window, dying howls,
stabbings, poisonings or corpses in the limelight.
The old-time melodrama folk were unreal; taken
in conjunction with their surroundings they be-
came preposterous. Because the people in V la
Wireless” are natural, every-day folk, their strange
adventures become almost conceivable. As a re-
sult, there are thrills in the new show which even
the Sydney Telegraph's snapshots of niggers
being eaten by sharks cannot give. The gun-
forging scene, the wireless business on the Mon-
golian, and the representation of the wrecked
yacht are about the best things in their line that
have been done in Sydney. Miss Evelyn Kerry,
Miss Emma Temple, Miss Elsie Wilson, Leonard
Atwill, Vivian Edwards, Eardley Turner, Charles
Blaekall and Ambrose Manning are some of those
who help to make the production a success.
* * * *
The Bulletin’s remarks this week con-
cerning “ Our Miss Gibbs ” are penned by the
only man in the office who has not seen the lady ;
or, if he did see her it was away back when she
first appeared—so long ago that he has forgotten.
It is comparatively easy to remember ordinary
matters of history, such as Plutarch censuring
Herodotus for not having sufficiently boomed the
fame of some of the Grecian cities; the murder of
Amaziah, son of Joash, by the inhabitants of
Jerusalem ; or Xerxes lashing the Hellespont for
disobedience, and ordering for it a pair of hand-
cuffs or leg-irons or something; but even the
Oldest Inhabitant couldn’t be expected off-hand
to recall whether he had or had not at some
remote period seen Miss Gibbs. Anohow, there s
no hurry; and the writer intends to have a stall
one night about a fortnight after the referenda
are carried. By that time the last howl
of the scattered and overwhelmed State Frights
will have died away in the tall timber, and peace
will be upon the land. The advertisement an-
announces that the piece is “going for the second
century,” and if it was good enough to last one
century it ought to last another one. By then
The Bulletin man who hasn’t seen the show will
have repaired the oversight or died in the attempt.
* * * *
“The Belle of Brittany ” continues to draw
admirers to Sydney Criterion. Some meritorious
features which went unnoticed last week are the
male choristers, Miss Nelly Cavanagh, and two of
the fairest and finest equerries or principal boys
that the writer has ever seen gathered together on
a stage.
* * * *
Having been renovated, the Standard
Theatre (Sydney) was re-opened on Saturday
night as a variety hall, Strenuous advertising of
a “ shadow dance by lovely types of womanhood ”
was ho doubt largely responsible for the audience
that packed the building, and furtive whiskers
here and there proved that the Wowser had
rushed in where angels appeared for bed. But
long before the Wowser had arrived the police had
had a private view of the unrobed posings which
appeared in shadowgraph against the sheet, and
satisfied themselves that the only shock the
Wowser was likely to suffer from the exhibition
waS fhe shock of disappointment. There are
several novelties in the programme, and the
management promises to shake the old style of
variety entertainment into a new lease of life.
* * *■ #
Fasola, the eminent Indian lion-loser, still
heads Sydney Tivoli bill; and his smart perform-
ance would be more enjoyable than it is if he
would direct the orchestra to play with less vigor
or else order it to go out and have a drink. On
the night the Religious Editor attended, at least
one raw, hungry howl by the cornet or trombone
should have been no-balled. If the uproar is
necessary to drown the noise of illusion-working,
this paper will remorselessly deduct 10 per cent,
from its astonishment and 15 per cent, from its
applause. If some distracting sound is necessary
to the performance, the mellow-toned gong which
the gorgeous brown wizard hits when the most
important tricks are about to be completed, might
be smitten continuously. The brazen thing gives
forth soft, soothing vibrations, and does no violence
to the ear whilst the eye is being entertained.
Alexander Prince, the concertina artist; Cooper
and Lait, the musical comedy pair; Miss Odeyne
Spark, and Baby Watson are also amongst those
present.
* * * *
An all-Australian show will be on view at
Sydney Criterion on the 30th and 31st inst.—
“The Grey Kimona,” a musical comedy with a
libretto by artist D. H. Souter and music by
F. Wynne Jones. R. B. Orchard is to play the
hero, with Miss Amy Murphy as his lady love.
Others in the cast are Miss Rosalind Smeaton and
Arthur Gibbs. Also, Miss Pressy Preston, who
was one of the most alluring features of J.C.W.’s
“ Hqmpty Dumpty” show and the sweetest of
Gretchens in “ Mother Goose,” is returning to the
stage in a part that should suit her.
* * * *
At time of writing, Spencer’s Theatre-
scope is still at the Pahice ; but the Lyceum, re-
juvenated and decorated, will reopen with a
matinee on Saturday. Among the star items are
“The Golden Supper,” a film in which beautiful
realism is said to have run mad. It certainly
is a very fine thing, and worth going far
to see. Napoleon flits across the uncertain
screen, and whatever faults he may have had,
Napoleon was never uninteresting. One is
brought back to the present by a fine film
of the launching of the new Dreadnought, the
Thunderer. There are the usual “comics,” and
the industrial side is represented by “ Karlsbad
and its Pottery Industry,” from which one learns
how the business has changed since the days of
Omar Khayyam, when the stuff was thumped
hard.
J * * * *
West’s Pictures, at Sydney Glaciarium,
boom with “The Sirens of the Surf.” People
who are under the impression that Australians
are not interested in things Australian can have
the truth made clear to them by blowing along to
the Glaciarium any night and listening to 4000
people deciding which is the prettiest of
the 30-odd belles that have been culled
from the beaches between Cronulla and Manly.
Writer frequently goes surfing, and sees a varied
assortment of beauty ; but, of course, in the surf
one never looks. When, however, the ladies
stand on a revolving pedestal by the seashore,
and allow themselves to be biographed—well,
what does one pay the price of admission for?
Although the Sirens of the Surf is the star film, it
is not the only one at West’s. The usual pro-
gramme is gone through; but the glory of the
beach-girls eclipses all else.
WILLIAM HASSAN.
THE ANIMAL
MAN IN MEL
BOURNE
PANTO.
“JACK AND
THE BEAN-
STALK
The amazing drama of “ Revenge,” dimly
remembered in Melbourne as one of Bland Holt’s
occasional excursions beyond the limit, was staged
at the King’s on Saturday by Max Maxwell.
Absurdity is clothed in military and naval
uniform in this story of foreign affairs. Inco-
herence wears a supposititious crown. Also, the
comic relief makes reference to the bond of lan-
guage between Britain and America, and a naval
captain does his courting under the ironical super-
vision of a seaman from the fo’castle, which
suggests H.M.S. Pinafore. There is nothing
to be said in favor of "Revenge ” except that it
doesn’t belong to the order of “bedroom dramas,”
so called, and has nothing pornographic in its
title. Seeing that two of the latest atrocities iu
British bellowdrama (not yet inflicted on Aus-
tralia) are “ The Midnight Sin ” and “ The
Soiled Shop Girl,” one may say that
"Revenge” is sweet. Some parts of the
performance are distinctly good as bellow-
drama work goes. Miss Beatrice Holloway
is an appealing little heroine; Mabel Russell
REVENGE!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
At the time of Stuff-and-Nonsense, in the land of
Lordknowswhere,
There schemed a burly Villain with pomatum on
his hair, ,
Who ran an insurrection, which occurred behind
the scene,
For the purpose of effecting his designs upon the
Queen.
His villainy was awful, and from nothing did he
shrink ;
He even put some lyddite in the captain’s pot of
ink.
The ink, of course, exploded, and the wretch
began to sing;
Now, wasn’t that a wicked plan to overthrow the
King?
The Captain’s wife was giddy, and he’d waxed
exceeding wild
On learning that the villain was the father of his
child
(A midshipmite in buttons, who had loved his
mother dear,
Till he heard behind a curtain that her character
was queer);
And when the ink explosion left bun sightless for
a time,
He swore to be Revenged upon the author Of the
crime.
His hate, alas! seemed hopeless, for he lived as
in a fog— .
He was just a Poor Blind Soldier mooching round
without a dog ;
Still the midshipmite adored him, and, amidst the
war’s alarms.
The Queen found time to nestle in her Poor Blind
Soldier’s arms.
True, she wasn’t yet a widow, but she hadn’t long
to wait,
For the Villain stabbed the King and took
possession of the State.
(Sing a song of sixpence, a pocketful of rye,
Four-and-twenty dramas baked in a pie !)
The Villain grew more wicked than he hitherto
had been,
He meant to kill the Captain in the presence of
the Queen :
But that humorous deceiver wasn’t blind, as you
might think;
His eyes had quite recovered from the fatal pot
of ink.
He could see to slay the Villain with pomatum on
his hair; '
Revenge was what he wanted, arid he got it then
and there.
And the Queen, whose gentle passion had been
modestly confessed,
Went and nestled more than ever on the Poor
Blind Soldier’s chest.
VICTORIA.
O.K.


Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
*
FIRE
Lowest Rates Charged.
’Phone No. 236 Central.
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED,
PITT AND KINO STREETS, SYDNEY.
ACCIDENT, EMPLOYERS’ LIABILITY, PLATE GLASS; .Etc.
Settlements Prompt and Equitable. G. HOWARD POPE, Manager.
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman.
ii
LOOK YOUNG
Dr. B. Allen s (u.s.a.)
Mexican Walnut Stain
Is the only Permanent and really
satisfactory One Solution Hair Stain.
None Genuine without Signature—ALFßED ARDLEY.
ALL CHEMISTS.
handles a difficult slie-boy character very expertly;
Styan is a weighty matter-of-fact villain ; Miss
Vera Remee shapes well as the impossible
American girl, supposed to take Tom Cannam
seriously; Brown of the raucous voice is the
Brown of old; and Maxwell deserves credit for
not being insufferable as the Poor Blind Soldier
who never changes his uniform. The most ridicu-
lous episode in Maxwell’s career happens off the
stage. His alleged affliction is always laughable
on account of how lie set the ink-bottle ablaze;
but it is most chiefly funny when the Queen sees
him walking innocently into a river and sends her
comic-opera maid to guide his steps aright. The
maid in question (Miss Rae Cooper) would be
more acceptable if she lengthened her skirts and
took the ribbons off her hair. A doleful comic
footman adds a pair of bad imitation whiskers to
his other offences; and the stout naval captain is
almost as weak in comedy as the slim villainess is
weak in tragedy.
** * *
To-morrow (Friday) is the last of “The
Gay Grisette” Gordons at the Royal. Melbourne
will see the company never more, but it faces the
impending loss very philosophically, because the
other C. and M. opera co. will be back in the near
future. Meanwhile a serious-minded co. is to deal
with “ Lucky Durham ” for three weeks. H. R.
Roberts takes the name part in Wilson Barrett’s
play ; Miss Beatrice Day is the principal lady in
the case; and Hugh Buckler and others make up
a cast which is limited to 13 names. The fact
that “Lucky Durham” has the Devil’s number in
the cast possibly explains why it was Barrett’s
last play.
” * * * *1
Every Wednesday and Saturday two per-
formances of the panto, transpire at Her
Majesty’s; on four other days Jack scales the
Beanstalk only once. On Sundays the Beanstalk
doesn’t grow at all. By the way, a recent Bulle-
tin par. was misprinted to say that the evening
curtain rose at 7.15, instead of 7.45, since when
the multitude has started to assemble at the doors
half an hour earlier than before. The Bulletin
gracefully acknowledges this tribute to a wide
circulation, but regrets the error which has
caused the multitude to bolt its evening meal.
THE GAY GRISETTE," AT MELBOURNE
ROYAL.
Maggie Knight
as Miss
Basingstoke.
Carleton Stuart as Hans
Hockheimer.
The change of hellowdrama companies at
the .Princess’s has brought Melbourne tip against
the o d-istablished fact that “Men Love
Women.” A drama in sundry acts, staged last
Saturday, professes to explain why ; but its bear-
ing on the question is not specially direct. The
hero who gets “jugged ” for a murder he didn’t
perpetrate suffers his cruel fate at Simla, and a lot
of hot air from the Himalaya Mountains envelops
the proceedings in general. Incidentally it may be
remarked that the lady who wasn’t murdered has
really been poisoned, and is suffering from a mere
trance of death, which resembles the real
thing. Therefore, the hero is not hanged.
Nevertheless, he has a hard job to marry the
heroine, after all. She gave her vast fortune to
the Indian Famine Fund, with a view to securing
his hand, but a villian intervenes and the engage-
ment is nearly broken off by the hand of cruel fate.
Finally, the drama proves to its own fatuous
satisfaction that a properly-loved woman doesn’t
regret her sex. Hilliard Vox villainises with
lurid effect; Miss Frances Ross is the lone, lorn
spinster, reduced to impecuniosity for hero Wing-
field’s sake; whilst Cambourne and Miss Clara
Stephenson provide comic relief of a sort. The
mounting is mostly picturesque, and an Indian
potentate, who loves the heroine with a pure
brown passion, adds to the pomp and circum-
stance of an inane narrative.
** * *
A new arrival at the Opera House is Leip-
zig, a conjurer who doesn’t mix his legerdemain
with mechanical illusions. In a smaller building
Leipzig would be more strikingly clever, but
under present conditions his art of making things
disappear and reappear is very smart indeed.
The advertisement calls it “ incomparable,” any-
how. Six American Dancers are quitting the bill
this week, but Wild, Willie and West will
knock about till further orders. The three
silent navvies are droll by inference and
innuendo, as well as by direct’assault. Ethel Loflus
is another forcible success. Ethel has a loud,
hoarse, Cockney utterance, three clean, quaint
songs, and a cheerful sense of grotesque humor to
match her other possessions. Ethel, in short, is
a “ trick,” and a new variety of “ trick ” at that.
Lucia Collins passes as a decorative feature of
the show. Her voice lacks music, and her attem pt
to sing “ The Little Widow,” in imitation of her
late mother, Lottie Collins, is merely a reminder
that the widow of old wore deep mourning over a
red petticoat. But she has the family good looks,
and her millinery is poetic.
** * *
Another big drama of local manufacture
was tried at the Melbourne Glaciarium on Satur-
day last. This film biographs “ The Mystery of a
Hansom Cab” with due regard to the narrative’s
blood and thunder. Most of the episodes are
given in an inteiesting manner, and are
described by an assiduous person who trusts
little to the audience’s imagination. In-
cidentally the murder, which is supposed to
occur at one in the morning, is pictured at one in
the afternoon—a piece of excusable license on the
part of the adapters, who desired the benefit of
daylight to photo, the crime in the hansom cab.
The acting in the picture is generally good, and
makes dumb show look more like an art than an
aberration.
** * *
A pictorial version of “John Halifax,
Gentleman,” arrived at Melbourne Olympia on
Saturday. Scanned closely, the picture is better than
the novel, for it has the maximum of story with a
minimum of snuffle. All the principal incidents
in the book have been included, .and are acted
with character and force. The lady who plays the
daughter of Fletcher, the miller, is quite natural
and pleasing, Fletcher himself is vigorous and
human all the time, and John Halifax presents a
model of conduct that all love but few copy.
«* * *
Max Maxwell has moved on from Adelaide
Royal. The co. has gathered in Miss Maud
Plunkett, a young and particularly gifted Ade-
laide amateur ; it is understood that she is to
have the reversion of Miss Strong’s female-viliain
parts, when that lady takes her lurid smile away
to the U.S.A., which is almost immediately.
Another horse-drama now holds the stage at the
Royal—“ The Chance of a Lifetime,” finely staged
by William Anderson, with the historic theft of
the Ascot Gold Cup as its central incident. The
Tivoli has a star turn in the football-playing dogs.
A strong co. includes Holt, who makes strange
imitative noises on an American basis; and the
juggling Martin, who also comes from the land of
Peary and Lynch. At West’s, the Beauty Com-
petition rages with unexpected fury. For the
first week, a youthful No. 17 went ahead by hun-
dreds ; then the public fancy seemed to change,
and a mature No. 15 is first into the fifth thousand.
Perhaps the farmers—in town, in myriads, for the
Show Week—prefer them maturer? The Empire
is relying largely on the pictured bushranging ex-
ploits of John Yane, while the Casino takes
lunch-time snapshots at busy corners, reproduces
them at night, and invites the public to come and
win prizes for recognising itself. Harold Hard-
wick is at the City Baths, Johnson and Jeffries
are fighting their shadowy battle at various
suburban halls, and—possibly as a counterblast—
Edward Reeves has recited “The Sky Pilot” for
the edification of the Methodist Conference dele-
gates.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“Billy B.”: Hugh J. Ward is only 40, hut he has been
living on stage boards and grease for 23 years. I asked
him, the other night, how many parts he had played.
“ sir ,” he said < “ 1 was curious to know that
m y. Belf . recently ; but my private secretary died of
ST. op’3 o'S'onTb.’&VSi. Sbllc to
vaudeville; 1889, joined Murdoch’s “ Hoop of Gold ” co.,
and played over 20 leading parts, making a hit in “ The
Artful Dodger ” ; 1892, toured the Bermudas, playing in
“Two Orphans,” “ KathleenMavourneen,”“ A Celebrated
C , ase ’’and others ; then (m different places of the world)
played leading parts m “ A Naval Engagement, “ Ten
Nights In a Bar-room,” “ Hoss and Hoss,” “ Rosedale,”
Z*SLl^wSs&“<ij3 f »oJ’E£
ment,” “Moths,” “Young Mrs. Winthrop,” “Pink
Dominoes,” “ Frou Frou,” “ The Galley Slave,”
“Ours,” “Twelfth Night,” “The Fencing Master,”
“The Silver Lining,” “Blow For Blow,” “The Hurly
SWn' £ o l f , l“ D ? ‘,.‘2 ew ,u
“Jack Cade,” “Brother Against Brother," “Cross Roads
of Li{e> » .. Michael Strogoff,” “Lady Lil,” “The Vir-
ginians,” “East Lynne,” “Rosedale,” “Captain Swift,”
“ Niobe,” “ A Night Off,” “ War to the Knife,” “ In Spite
of All,” “May Blossom,” “The Private Secretary,”
“Friends,” “ Wages of Sin,” “The Bells” (Matthias),
oaste (Eccles), “Cricket on the Hearth” (Caleb
Plummer)( “Little Lord Fauntleroy,” The “Ensign,”
“ Uncle Tom’s Cabin,” “ The Two Orphans,” “The Octo-
roon ’’ (Salem Scudder), “The Colleen Bawn,” “The Big
Bonanza,” “Jim the Penman,” “The Wife,” “Turned
Up," “Jane,” “Diplomacy,” “Dr. Bill,” “The Jilt,”
“ Twelfth Night,” “Alabama,” “Trilby,” “ Held by the
Enemy,” “New Clown,” and many others unknown to
me as well as all the later pieces known to everybody .
„ *, j .. . . ,
O.K. : Already there is a quarrel over the first
appea rance of the flickergraph ; and it is even alleged
that Boer War Pictures were the earliest, or nearly the
earliest, put upon the screen in Australia. As a matter of
fact, the flickergraph was familiar to Australia in 1897,
when Rickards "starred” it as a principal turn, and
showed Queen Victoria’s Jubilee Procession, etc. It was
then said to have been going strong in London for the
previous six months as the Biograph, though the original
title of living pictures on the screen was Cinematograph.
Phil Newbury supplemented his shilling pops with a Bio-
graph in 1898. The Boer War didn’t start until October,
|99, and the first pictures taken in S’Africa were not shown
in Australia uruil some eight months later. Actually the
first cinematograph film shown in these parts was staged
by the McMahons; but the picture wasn’t magnified in
those days. Tbe same people, by the way, staged the
first phonograph—in 1890. It was a very spluttering and
cranky work of Edisonian art, worked in conjunction
with an explanatory lecture delivered by one Professor
Douglas Archibald, M.A.
“The Shover”: Bent, at one time Premier of Victoria,
and now in another place, was well and unfavorably
known among Victorian audiences for his habit of burst-
ing into platform-song on the slightest provocation. It
now appears, from the reports of A. Deakin’s recent out-
break at Ballarat, that Alfred has added himself to the
ranks of show-men in the same line. At this meeting,
“ led by Mr. Deakin, the audience sang a verse of the
National Anthem, and the meeting terminated with
cheers." Certainly, the reporter might have mistaken
the National Anthem for “MyCountry, ’tis of Thee,”
which has the same dreadful tune. But that isn’t likely.
A. Deakin isn’t thinking of his country just at present.
He seems to be thinking mostly of the wretched person
who took his job, and of ways and means of getting that
job back.
That go-ahead body, the Adelaide Literary Theatre,
has issued its programme for the coming winter. It is
going to tackle 15 or 16 authors, including Ihsen, Maeter-
linck and Sudermann, Shaw, Yeats and Masefield, Upton
Sinclair, Gertrude Robins and Louis Esson. The subscrip-
tion has been doubled ; but ss. for a seat for eight perform-
ances cannot be called excessive. The first venture, in
April, will be Rann Kennedy’s semi-religious mystery,
“The Servant in the House,” which is like “The First
Floor Baek ” —only more so.
H. N. Southwell is about to light beacon fires all over
the continent, so as to give warning of the advance of
the Sheffield Choir. Commencing in Sydney Town Hall
next Monday, a series of public meetings will be held in
each city to suitably provide for greeting the Yorkshire
Dumplings. At the Sydney meeting, Mayor Allen Taylor
is to preside, and brief speeches by VV. A. Holman, G.
S. Beeby, Judge Heydon, W. P. Manning, Bruce Smith
and Win. Atkins (who is hon. boss of the local Yorkshire
Society) will tell us all about it. This oratorical pill will
be gilded with a good musical programme.
Of the 100,000 shares in the Amalgamated Biograph
Co. which has taken over the two Melbourne picture
businesses of J. and N. Tait and Johnson and Gibson, the
vendors soak up 20,000 and the public 30,000 ; the other
50,000 will be sent to market later. Of the £30,000, a
first slice of £11,500 will go into the vendors’ pockets in
payment for the stock-in-trade ; the 20,000 free shares
are for the goodwill. The second slice will pay for the
Biograph Theatre, to be built in Flinders-street, next
Bali and Welch’s. The Taits have an option to lease this
little bit of the earth for 30 years.
“Bloggs”: The current London papers are sizzling
over one “Harriet" (nobody knows her identity), who
wrote to various butlers, attached to the stately homes
of Old England, asking for news of scandals in High Life.
She said she wanted details of the wickednesses current
among the British nobility, in order to send them to
American “Society” papers. The London sheets are
falling like tons of masonry on the Yankee press which is
capable of “ so unscrupulously libelling a virtuous and
deserving class.” Yet they don’t fall like even £cwt. of
masonry on the British stage, though, that is the place
where the aristocrat (home and foreign) is more villain-
ously slandered than anywhere else. Who ever saw a
musical comedy, whose action was laid in the U.K. that
didn’t contain at least one utterly deplorable Debretter ?
In melodrama, in 99 cases out of 100, if the villain
isn’t an army captain he is a Bart. The melodrama has
yet to be written whereof the main villain is a stone-
mason. H. A. Jones, Pinero and the rest fill theirsociety
plays with gambling dukes, erotic earls and viscounts,
and financially unstable barons. In tbe matter of hurling
mud and other unpleasant matter at folks in high places,
the British drama beats the Amurrcan news-sheet out of
sight.
“Stargazer”: The actor is civilisation’s spoilt boy, and
he puts on all the airs of the petted kid. Notice him
(her or it) performing in the evening after a matin6e ;
observe the languor and the weariness, hear the sighs of
the weary spirit. The pro. has put in 2f hours in the
afternoon, possibly is “on ” for 1J hour, and is all-out
when called upon to repeat the dose in the evening.
His obvious lassitude and his groans of anguish advertise
his martyrdom to an audience that is expected to be
compassionate. The stuff he (she or it) is handling may
be tawdry balderdash, the acting calling for as much
intellectual effort as directs the caperings of an ape on a
twig, but the pitiful bids for sympathy go out over the
footlights just the same, and the night’s performance is
scamped and flat. So it remains for me, a solitary, cal-
lous scoffer, to cry : “ Yah ! get work ! ”
“Haresfoot”: Max Maxwell returns to Melbourne a
much bigger man. When he was with Bland Holt he
had the misfortune to have three good men in front of
him—Baker, Styan and Norman. So his parts were apt
to be quite beneath him. He first showed me what he
could do as Sneer, in Sheridan’s “Critic,” at a matinee ;
and long did he persevere with such things as Gecko, in
“Trilby.” His position with Bland was not altogether
unlike that of Phelps with Macready. Brooke would not
submit to such jamming down. Macready engaged him
and billed him as Ghost in “Hamlet.” “I only play
Hamlet,” said Brooke, and quashed the engagement.
After three years of pin-pricks, Phelps determined he
would have no more of it either ; but the wisdom of his
spouse prevailed, and he signed on for another three
years. Then said Mac: “Come with me to America.”
“No,” said Phelps, and he let Jack Ryder go. And it
was well ; for Macready, like Irving, lost ground by
going across the pond.
“ Harrison O.”: Concerning Mrs. Jordan, the famous
actress who, although she never married, was, neverthe-
less, a'great mother, “ Busk ” (B. 16/2/’ll) states she had
four children by Ford. This, I think, is incorrect; at any
rate, I can trace only two children, both daughters.
Ford was a city magistrate and a scion of one of the pro-
prietors of Drury-lane; furthermore, he was bad-tem-
pered and unpopular. The general public was under the
impression that the two were married. “ Busk’s ” state-
ment that the actress gave up Ford for the Duke of
Clarence is strictly accurate, yet hardly does the lady
justice. When Clarence “ proposed ” she went to Ford,
told him of the royal proposition, and offered to decline
if he (Ford) would agree to marry her. He, however,
refused to make her an Honest Woman, so she flew to
the dook. Afterwards Ford pursued her, and appears to
have acted like a beast throughout.
Violinist Ernest Toy has become professor of the fiddle
at the Marshall-Hall Conservatorium, Melbourne. Ernest
was born in Bendigo, and “topped” his musical educa-
tion at Berlin. He has travelled over a good part of
Europe and Australasia on professional tours, and last
year was noticeable as leader of tbe J.C.W. Grand Opera
orchestra. Altogether, he is a very clever young man,
usually surmounted by an absurd little hat.
“Busk ” : The cablegrapherislike a lion catching mice.
He condescends to tell us that two supes were wounded
in a recent stage fight. How many others? Irving’s
“Romeo and Juliet ” opened with a great stage battle.
The saying was that men were wounded every night, and
there was always one in hospital. Bandmann, as lago,
stabbed Mrs. Steele as Emilia ; she was laid up three
months. Hans Phillips, as Richmond, hit Creswick as
Richard 111. ; but old “ Crezzy ” came up bravely. As
long as that magnificent wig stuck on, he wouldn’t care.
Darrell’s London season was spoilt by a knife wound;
that was in “The Sunny South.” Warner, too, was badly
wounded as Michael Strogoff, and had to be replaced by
H. J. Byron,
“ Battleaxe ” : Re Dickens as an actor (B. 16/2/T1). Sir
Henry Hawkins, in his Reminiscences, referring to cer-
tain private theatricals arranged at Knebworth by Lord
Lytton, in which Charles Mathews, Macready, Douglas
Jerrold and others took part, comments as follows:
“ Next was another illustrious man whose name will live
for ever, and who was not only one of the greatest
authors of his time, but also the most distinguished of
non-professional actors. Had he been on the stage,
Mathews himself could not have surpassed him. This
was Charles Dickens.”
“ Melb ” : The disappearance of the old Queen’s makes
me think again of Beauchamp, who was an actor there
and afterwards became stage doorkeeper at the Theatre
Royal—like poor old Charley Burford in Sydney, the
Cassio of Brooke’s first Australian appearance, and the
Joseph Service of the Melbourne Royal opening. To what
base uses, Horatio ! However, Beauchamp rose again.
He disappeared from the door, and turned up in a few
years with a long white beard as Eider Beauchamp, preach-
ing Mormonism ! He was a mate of Joe Smith, thepresent
Mormon president. But Melbourne’s best exhibit in that
way—after Elijah Dowie, of course—was Wroe, a follower
of Joanna Southeott. She died without bringing forth the
Messiah. A Manchester Museum still keeps the 500-
guinea silvercradle and Royal diapers, etc., prepared for the
Expected. Wroe developed the cause into the Christian
Israelites, or Beardies, who still have their fine Milestone
church in Fitzroy, Melbourne. When he Avatar-ed,
there was yet another development. Jim Fisher, of
Nunawading, charcoal burner, started the Church of the
Firstborn, which mounted up to 120 ladies and gentle-
men, meeting in a log palace ; but that caper is pretty
well known to moderns through the revelations at full
length in the newspapers.
“Char”: Though Hall Caine still goes down in Mel-
bourne, his vogue is quite dead in London. Despite
countless huge posters representing the Pope blessing
Tittell Brune, “ The Eternal Question ” was a dead frost.
The Divorce Commission was sitting at the time the show
was produced, and Hall connected his work with the
Commission in some vague way ; but even that didn’t
avail to save the situation. After three weeks, “The
Eternal Question ” left the Garrick, allegedly to “go on
tour until a more suitable West End theatre could be ob-
tained.” The “ more suitable theatre” is still unfound.
“Varden”: Dickens approved of a few dramatic
adaptations. What he most objected to was their anti-
cipating the end of his novels. Yet he even approved of
just one of these daring affairs, “ Nicholas Nickleby,” at
the Adelphi, with Mrs. Keeley as a fat little Smike,
Wright as Squeers, O. Smith as Noggs, Sam Emery as
Browdie, and Yates as Mantalini. He authorised
Albert Smith’s adaptation of “The Cricket on
the Hearth”; but, then, 11 others, unauthorised,
were acted in London at the same time ! Amid
all the presentations in Melbourne, Jefferson’s Caleb
Plummer stood forth pre-eminent. He also acted,
Newman Noggs. His support in “ The Cricket on the-
Hearth ” included : Dot, Mrs. Heir ; Bertha, Rosa Dunn
Tilly Slowboy, Emma Neville ; Mrs. Fielding, Mrs,.
Phillips (Mother of Hans); May Fielding, Dolly Green
(Doloreo Drummond); Peerybingle, Heir; Tackleton„
Lambert; Stranger, Ireland (Harrie’s father). How
sweet was Rosa Dunn (Mrs. L. L. Lewis) as the blind
girl 1 How touching the scene with her father, when she
said, “I see you in your nice blue coat, with the brass
buttons.” Jefferson wore at the time an old sack, in-
scribed “ Glass, with care,” on the back, and was paint-
ing spots on toy horses.
Tittell Brune’s moderate success, “The Girl of the
Golden West,” has been made into an Italian opera, to
music by Puccini, and played successfully in New York.
The music seems to adapt itself to the melodramatic
action all right. (What would be the tuneful “ motive ”
or “phrase” to the heroine’s extraction of the ace from
her stocking?) But the Italian librettist has been up
against a hard thing, for he had to struggle with such
speeches as : “ Say, boys, I’m homesick, and I’m broke,
and I don’t give a damn who knows it. I want my folks !
I’m done ! ” The gentle Italian renders that by singable
phrases such as “ Son rovinato ” (I am ruined), and makes
the cowboy want to see “ la mamma mia.”
A Bert Levy yarn : “When Sarah Bernhardt was acting
in Melbourne a regular wave of French lessons passed
over the city. I remember a story told of a ladies’ school
visiting the Princess Theatre. All the girls sat in the-
front row in charge of their teacher. Each one had ai
book of ‘ Camille’ in French and English, while they en-
deavored to follow the tragedienne. In a very quiet
scene one of the damsels was heard to remark : ‘Oh, she
forgot to say ‘ Exit.’ It’s in the book.’ ”
“Harrison O.” : First act, a young ladies’ seminary ;
second act, a beer garden. Always the way with musi-
cal comedy, nowadays. Skirt-clad collegians and alcoholic
vegetation occupy prominent places in “The Orchid,”
“ The Girls of Gottenberg,” “ Miss Hook of Holland ” and
other pieces as numerous as drunks in a no-license dis-
trict. Now we have them in “ The Gay Grisette.” Most
of the characters in the “ Grisette ” are cheap reprints of
alleged classics, the copyright of which expired before
they were published. Captain Jack Canary is a good
imitation of Otto of Saxe-Hildesheim, in “The Girls of
Gottenberg ” ; Colonel Pom Pom is a second edition of
Baron Popoff, of “ The Merry Widow ” ; and Rev. Amos
Basingstoke carries a chest-protector and shrieks remem-
brance of Frank Thornton in “The Private Secretary.”
I note, with patriotic approval, by the way, that the
grand old Union John did its best to wave proudly from
the flagpole of a French chateau which, throughout the
first act, is constantly visited by French military officers
with a habit of observing “ Yive la France.”
From Captain J. Neville—whom this paper doesn’t,
know — writing from Calcutta : “ The Bulletin will re-
member the ‘ Cornish pixie,’ whom I had on exhibition
in Sydney and elsewhere in Australia. I now write to-
inform you that he died this morning (8/2/T1), after a
short but painless illness ; that he is being buried this
afternoon as a member of the Church of England, and
that his age is given as over 21 years. We had just con-
cluded a tour of S’Africa, and arrived here some 10 days
ago. At this place he contracted a severe cold, and died
of acute nephritis this morning. He was under the care
of Dr. W. S. Allan, 3 Esplanade-row, Calcutta, during his
illness.”
A DARLINGHURST IDYLL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Each evening, as I take my way
Towards my home, I pass
A stream of mummers going west»
The wild-hued chorus lass
Flits by, and comic men galore,.
And “ leads” of every class.
Munching the remnants of a bun,
Fitz Curse goes hurriedly ;
His mild, dyspeptic countenance
And inoffensive eye
Do not suggest the Perfect Fiend
He will be by-and-bye.
Fitzcurse—encountered in the street —
Resembles nothing more
Than one of those meek men with bags
Who to the city pour
Each morn, and then trot home again.
One meets them by the score.
The dashing, front-row ballet girl,
Observed at half-past six
P.M. is destitute of dash.
The colors do not mix
Upon her hair or hat or cheeks ;
Her claims to charm are nix.
A spotty youth, in spectacles,
And dusty shoes of tan,
Proceeds unnoticed to his job :
No eager females scan
His face with looks of passion—yet
He is a Beauty Man.
And I, that ridiculeth them,
What do they think of me ?
A short, fat, futile man, no doubt;
A shop-band, possibly,
Or ill-paid clerkling, hasting back
To his vile hash-house tea.
So night by night we pass like trams,
Upon the crowded street,
Nor say a word —our furtive eyes
With ill-hid scorn replete,
And all the vague intolerance
Of folks who never meet.
n.s.w.
10-2-4.
A MODERN AMENDMENT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. Hammond, the Australian aviator, yesterday made
a fine flight over Melbourne. —Neivs item.
The earth-folk heard the biplane sing'
Its crackling anthem in tbe blue ;
The airman steered the darting thing
That swooped and soared on canvas wing
And bowing, took a bird’s-eye view.
A stout man shuddered on his feet
And asked us how a man could dare
To soar so high above the street.
He moaned, that man of weight and meat:
“ None but the brave deserve the air ! ”
VICTORIA.
NE'EROPLANE.


The Motoring Party.
There is a tremendous pleasure in motoring when
a whole party is able to indulge in this glorious
pastime together.
We have just received some magnificent new models
—fine capacious cars of the same supreme makes
that are always associated with our name—
38 h.p.—Daimler—38 h.p.
Austin, 18-24 h.p.
Delaunay Belleville, 18-25 h.p.
all embodying’ every modern in-
novation and improvement.
Sole Agents —
Dalgety S Co. Ltd.,
136=138 Phillip Street,
SYDNEY.
m
TRUSTY TRUNKS
Write for our Travelling: Booklet, Post Free on request,
and remember vve paint name or initials free of charge
on Trunks, also that
WE PAY CARRIAGE on all Goods except Furniture, Floor
Covering, Kitchen and Hardware, to any part of the
Commonwealth. Only on Toys when ordered with
pther goods.
at DAVID JONES ltd.
Indestructible Sheet Fibre Regulation
Cabin Trunks.
HERE is an inexpensive, durable
Trunk, made of sheet fibre, abso-
lutely indestructible, and is
covered with Brown or Green Canvas.
Has convenient drop back lid, best four
lever lock and heavy straps right round.
Neat in appearance, unequalled for
strength and reliability, we can
thoroughly recommend this Trunk to
those about to take a sea voyage. May
be had in two sizes :
30 inches long - - 82/6
36 inches long - - 95/*
DAVID JONES LTD.,
A 3 N a AS
••o ‘d *o «“*o
Society
PENEOLD'S
WINES
AGTRESS WORSHIP.
"She’s on the stage!”
Melbourne Advocate proposes that the
name of (Jollins-street should be altered to Bat-
m in-street. A misprint, no doubt, for Fatman-
street.
“10-2-4”: A subject I should
admire to see handled by Havelock Ellis,
Lombroso, Joe Cook or one of the other
Masters of Sociology, is the astounding
capacity for indignation that a man ac-
quires as a result of becoming a suburban
alderman. I have again and again
seen the irreconcilable. He looks as
mild a proposition as ever wore the
plug hat and bulbous gamp of hopeless
respectability. lam told, by those who
should know, that his temperament
—outside council hours —is a sunny one.
Encounter him in the street, and he is
merry and bright; bump him in the
execution of his duty as a suburban
alderman, and you get a roaring lion
and a sniffing jaguar. Everywhere it is
the same. All over this vast continent
aldermen are perpetually engaged bark-
ing blood-thirstily at one another over
the merest trivialities; yet the out-
laws are mostly the mildest of men in
the home circle. What is the answer
to it? Does the burden of civic res-
ponsibility weigh the holder down so
that his nerves get on edge? Is he,
contrariwise, maddened by a haunting
suspicion of the futility of his job?
Does his sense of the aesthetic become
frayed by ceaseless debates re the
wisdom or otherwise of deporting the
corpse of Jones’s dog from its resting-
place on the border line of the adjoin-
ing bailiwick, or abolishing the open
drain outside the beer-palace of Smith?
These are problems I yearn to see
resolved by Forbes Winslow or Dill Macky,
or some other medical authority.
* * * *
Professor Abell, of the chair of Naval
Architecture at Liverpool University, says that
future Dreadnoughts will be oil-driven, almost
submerged and protected by a thick, horizontal
deck. It seems that they will either have to be
something like that or not be at all. The 15-inch
naval gun recently arrived, and the possibility of
a weapon that size tires out the lay imagination.
Meanwhile, both British and German sea-gunnery,
with the present 12-inch giants, has become horri-
bly accurate and ruinous. The new battleship
Neptune, at a range of five miles, threw five 12-
inch shells within 150yds. of the target. The
experts reckon the broadside would have crippled
any battleship afloat. A cable a few days later
said that a German cruiser had performed much
to the same effect; so there is seemingly no great
difference between the markmanship of the two
great rivals. The heavyweight battleship’s punch
is already terrible enough to make sub-marining a
matter of urgency ; in another year or Jso it will
be a matter of necessity.
* * * *
“ J.W.” tells the story of a “ scoop ” :
lie the alleged scoop by Melbourne Argus (B. 25/2/’ll).
The N.Z. Herald did a similar trick a while back. When
Alex. Hogg was bumped out of the Ward Ministry, he
stumped Maoriland advocating a third party. After his
visit to Auckland a meeting of union officers and others
was convened, and the press was informed that no re-
porters would be admitted, but that a report would be
supplied, which promise was kept. Next day the city
■was agog over a column report in the Herald, which
asserted that a Herald reporter disguised as a lumper
had attended the meeting and had hurrahed for Labor
and groaned at the mention of Ward in approved style.
Likewise, the lumper-reporter detailed how in an excess
of enthusiasm a Labor Ministry was formed on the spot
and the portfolios whacked out with magnificent gene-
rosity. In brief, he depicted Labor’s rapacity and selfish-
ness and disrespect for law’n’order and propputy in a
manner that delights the typical Tory. When the
Journalists’ Institute took the matter up and talked of
maintaining the dignity of journalism the Herald men
burst up the show.
However, Labor waited. About last May the same re-
porter-lumper ran across the President of theLL.P. at
Auckland, and casually inquired whether anything was
happening in Labor circles? With child-like simplicity
the President was mysterious. Mr. Reporter smelled some-
thing, was all attention at once, and courteously invited
the President to come up to the office and have a smoke
and a chat—just for information, of course, not for pub-
lication. In the course of an hour’s conversation the
unsuspecting President let out that efforts were being
made to effect a coalition with the Opposition (Massey)
Party ; that the organisation was proceeding apace, as
many as three meetings being held per evening, all behind
closed doors ; that funds were being accumulated, etc.
After a final cigar, Mr. President departed, promising to
give the Herald the tip when things were ready.
Next morning, as he expected would be the
case, the Herald had a column of information
obtained from “ a prominent Laborite,” with a
sub-leader commending Labor for getting a bit
of sense. Also it Press Ass’d the news, and for a fort-
ni«ht the Opposition-Labor combine was the main topic.
Then, questioned by the Herald as to further develop-
ments, Mr. President grinned, and declared that the
thing had never been talked about or discussed by Labor
not even suggested. With a breezy “Ta ! Ta ! ” and a
promise to look in if anything fresh occurred, the Presi-
dent dodged out, leaving the Herald scratching its head
and slowly waking up to the awful fact that it had played
with edged tools and been damaged.
■# * * *
One-half of a Collins-street (Melb.) shep-
herd’s address to Flinders-lane and adjacent
places, on the occasion of a recent dinner-hour
service, was devoted to a condemnation of back-
biting, the other half to abuse of that very good
friend to the clergy—the Devil
A vision of the Fiend we had,
With leech-like figures, darkly clad,
Upon his back —a multitude
In greedy imbibition glued.
It called for constant care and skill
To gnaw and gnaw', and not to kill.
This is his fate, poor devil, doomed
To be devoured, and not consumed.
HIS FATHER WAS AN ANGLER.
TEACHER: “Now, who was the man
the whale swallowed?”
BRIGHT PUPIL: “Ananias!”
The lawyer who “ takes silk,” as a batch
have been doing lately, has some curious language
cast at him. The quaint phraseology of the
Letters Patent issued to him is a relic of the days
of Queen Bess, who started the business in IGO4
by appointing Francis Bacon to be Queen’s Coun-
sel Extraordinary. And the Oath matches the
Letters
I do declare that well and truly I will serve the King as
one of His Counsel Learned in the Law, and truly council
the King in his matters when I shall be called, and duly
and truly minister the King’s matters and sue the King’s
process after the course of the law and after my cunning.
For any matter against the King, when the King is party,
I will take no wage nor fee of any man. I will duly in con-
venient time speed such matters as any person shall have
to do in the law against the King as I may lawfully do
without long delay, tracting or tarrying the party of his
lawful process in that to me belongeth. I will be attend-
ant to the King’s matters when I be called thereto. So
help me God!
“After my cunning” doesn’t mean now quite
what it meant when it was first written. But, all
things considered, it would be a pity to change it.
THE BORROWING HABIT.
GERALDINE : “Give me one kiss before I
leave thee!”
HAROLD: “I cannot give; but here is my
I—O—U.”
“A. Borig What a hardy annual is the
(Sydney) North Shore Bridge proposal! Rum-
maging in an old Sydney Gazette of 1835,1 found
an article advocating the connection of Dawes
Point and the North Shore. Said the 1835-er
However difficult such an undertaking may appear to
a common observer, to an engineer who knows what he
may have to contend with, and the means to be em-
ployed, these appear but trifling, particularly since the
discovery of the means of working under water. By the
success of such an undertaking, the value of the land at
the opposite side would increase to an enormous amount;
the various coves might then be connected, and roads
constructed branching in all directions from the Hawkes-
bury and neighboring towns.
That was 75 years ago, and the engineers are still
explaining how easy it is !
* * * *
A young road-hog, employed by some
Tooralc people, came up the other day before the
Prahran Bench. The Bench, J.P., referred regret-
fully to the fact that in fining the chauffeurand in
disbelieving the evidence of two Toorak ladies it
was passing trouble along to old friends. Neverthe-
less, though they were old friends, the Bench’s
sense of duty triumphed, and it fined the road-hog
£3. But at that point Duty apparently felt satis-
fied, or retired hurt, or something. Any-
way, when the prosecuting inspector asked that,
in view of a number of previous convictions,
the road-hog should have his license revoked,
The Bench, J.P., said, “ We are not going to sus-
pend the license.” So the the young roadhog, with
his carload of Toorak, may still whirl up the dust;
and even if he kills anybody, his license seems
safe. Licenses seem safe no matter what hap-
pens. When anybody gets killed, it is the fault
of the deceased. It always is. It is never the
fault of the driver (who always gets off sooner or
later—generally sooner), and nobody dreams of
laying the corpse at the feet of fool magistrates,
who won’t revoke licenses, even when they get the
straight tip from the police and the records to
do so.
* * * »
The recent Criminal Sittings in Adelaide
illustrated the foolishness of the ‘•compromise”
verdict in a case in which the jury cannot decide
whether or not you (say) stole a horse, and finally
decides that you embezzled its shoes. In this
Adelaide case, prisoner was being tried on what
is elsewhere called a “ capital charge,” though it
is not so in S. A. The victim described the terrible
and long-continued struggle. Prisoner merely
said in defence that he was a welcome guest, and
that he and the lady together consumed during
the seance three bottles of beer and two of
wine. Also, he pointed out that he has only one
arm. The jury was hopelessly puzzled between
the two stories, and came back into court to say
that it couldn’t agree; then it went away, and
returned with a feeble verdict of indecent assault
—which carried one year’s gaol for a man who
either is innocent or deserves a long term. Judge
Homburg seemingly shared in the puzzlement;
for next day he called the prisoner up, said un-
flattering things about the jury—which had gone
home—and’ reduced the sentence to three months.
• » * *
When the Rangatira lined up
alongside Port Melbourne pier on the
last day of February, an interesting
and interested little group of old-time
immigrants went down to have a look
at her and get their memories refreshed.
For the Rangatira was the latest repre-
sentative of the modern emigrant ship
—had brought over 1000 new Aus-
tralians from Tilbury Docks to the old
Town Pier without one sight of land,
save a glimpse of Teneriffe and a hasty
glance at the blurred outline of Table
Mountain as it showed through the
fog. The old-timers were impressed ;
it was all so different from “their
time.” Very few babies or childrtn
then and few women, and the men
were all in mad haste to rush away
to “ the fields.” To-day everything
is tabulated and registered ; no mad
rush, no bother. But the old timer
would have none of it. “Too much
Guv’ment now—we just up with our
swags and found our own way around.”
The new comers had other opinions.
The liner unloaded 530 settlers at Mel-
bourne —the rest went on to Sydney
that same evening—and before she left
all had been planted in comfortable
lodgings and their luggage had been
delivered. Three days later less than
a tenth of them remained in Melbourne.
That shipload of 1000, so easily
handled, so quietly and swiftly dis-
posed of, was in reality a magnifi-
i cent advertisement of the “re-
sources of this great country.” If
the Commonwealth and the shipping
cos. can keep that stream in full flow,
there would be less fear of what may
happen after 1915.
* * *
A cow of a meeting was held in
Lismore (N.S.W.) on a very recent
date. The object of the bovine gather-
ing appears to have been to strew
cow-grease along the path of the Rural
Workers’ Union. The employees whom
these cow men are so anxious to check
are. of course, dreadful fellows entitled to no con-
sideration at all. Only the day before one of them
had allowed himself to be drowned while attempt-
ing to swim across the swollen Tweed River to
obtain relief for one of his master’s cows.
A SONG OF SUNDAY OFF.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A deputation representing the Council of the Churches
urged the Postmaster-General to-day to respect the con-
scientious objections of telephone attendants to work on
Sundays. Rev. J. T. Robertson said it was a moral
offence for a Christian telephone attendant to do work
which facilitated gossip on Sundays about the frivolities
of the week.
The toilers of the telephone
Must cultivate the>r moral tone ;
One day a week, and one alone,
Is suitable for that —
The day when ev’ry Christian Tarings
His thoughts to bear on holy things,
And reads about the Jewish kings
Whom other kings “ begat” ;
Six days a week they meekly bear
The constant strain of “ Are you there?”
And shudder when subscribers swear
And scoffers gaily scoff ;
But as an antidote to cure
Their poisoned minds of words impure,
And ease the pain their hearts endure,
They want the Sunday off.
No other day, in any case,
Can offer them the time and place
For saying prayers and finding grace
Upon their humbled knees ;
They contemplate with cold disdain
Mere aids to recreation vain,
Who work the Sunday tram and train,
For they are not as these.
The toilers of the train and tram
Have got no souls to save or damn,
They cut no ice, nor put on jam,
Nor dream of playing “ goff.”
They, like the members of the Press
(Who have no misdeeds to confess),
Are always working more or less,
And need no Sunday off.
But operators at the ’phone
Must have their day to sigh and groan,
And bow their heads before the Throne
Whereof the parsons speak ;
Their day to worship and adore,
Or loaf upon the sad sea shore
Collecting grace—a goodly store—
To last them through the week.
And then, if sinners ring the bell,
A fiend whose name we know too well
Will roar the mandate : “Go to”
(Just here we pause to cough).
The Wowser saint, by Heaven blest,
Who runs the show and knoweth best,
Will recognise no Day of Rest
Except the Sunday off ;
And, ere we be much older grown,
lie’ll wowserise the telephone.
VJETOMA.
O. K.


Rich Women need Sunlight Soap.
Poor Women need Sunlight Soap.
All Women need Sunlight Soap.
IT DOES WHAT IT PROMISES.
What’a -
put
in
the
Soap
come*
out
in
the
clothes.
Na. 87.
guaranteed unde) 1
the "Pure Food Act, 1908,"
by Lever Brothers Limited,
Sydney, N.S.W,
No. W,
I
OCCASIONAL CONSTIPATION is a fertile source of
many of the minor ills that flesh is heir to. The best way
of restoring a state of healthy activity to stomach and
bowels is by taking a wineglasSful of “ Hcnyadi Janos ”
natural aperient water every alternate day before break-
fast.*
As Shapely and Serviceable a Boot O C f _
as Yon Could Wish to Wear, for
It’s a stout, strong boot, comfortable to a degree, with a
medium toe, a boldly-designed toe cap, and a wide
welted, heavy sole.
We have it in Black Horsehide or in Tan Willow Calf,
leather lined in both instances. With much wet
weather close at hand, and heavy walking under
foot, this boot is just what you need. An ideal
Winter Boot.
When ordering, don’t forget to tell us what
size you take.
Price - 2 5/-
Posted 9d. extra; 1/3 Inter-State,
Peapes & Co. Ltd.
“ MEN’S OUTFITTERS,”
309-311 George Street, Sydney.
According to cabled information, the
M.L. Government has purchased a nugget of gold
as a Coronation gift; and if George V. has the
same luck with it as the man had who should have
found it, he will have the misfortune to break his
royal neck. Over 20 years ago an old miner
named McCarthy was working a claim at Ross,
on the West Coast, in full confidence that he
would find a barrow-load of gold owing to
an extremely vivid dream. In that dream,
which came to him more than once, he
saw himself dragging the golden egg out
of its nest and polishing its shell with his
shirt sleeve. Unfortunately the dream never
showed the exact part of the claim where the
property was hiding; and one day, while mentally
ticking off the places where it possibly might be,
he fell over the tail-race and fractured his neck.
After that the claim was abandoned until last
September, when a couple of men named Scott
and Sharp had ago at it. They found the old
man’s nugget all right; but as he was then too
dead to take any interest in the matter, they
could do no more than drink his health. The
nugget is a very fine specimen, shaped like a
man’s head, weighing 990 z. 12dwt. 12gr., and
valued at £4OO.
Once upon a time, the poor benighted
Fijian lived the Simple Life and was happy.
When he was hungry the ripe banana dropped
into his mouth ; when thirsty, the milky cocoanut
fell at his feet—if on his head, it didn’t matter,
for that was armor-plated by Nature. He enjoyed
tlie song and dance, and went surf-bathing with-
out a clammy costume. To give life a zest and
keep himself in condition, he now and then had
a collar-and-elbow tussle with his neighbor, or a
elub-swing'ing contest with his enemy. The sur-
vivor of a fight ate the victim to save funeral
expenses, and no one was any the worse. Life
was a long holiday. Next it was written :
“Better a cycle in Fiji than five years on the
plantations.” That was after the white man had
come into his paradise and tempted Fiji with rum,
and he had drunk thereof. For when he awoke the
Fijian found himself encased in a white shirt, with
a hoe in his hands, working for one white brudder,
while other white brudders preached to him out of
The Book to repent of his manifold sins and work
harder. And each preacher said to him ; “You
must believe alonga me and not alonga other
white preachers, or you be damned.” By and bye
the benighted heathen found that, with the glass
beads and tomahawks, the white man had brought
him the whooping cough and the small-pox and
other invisible devils which made his people
wither away. Poor Fiji was sad, and to shake off
his sadness he had a song and dance on Sunday.
Then the preachers all brandished The Book at
him. Whereat Fiji got very angry and burned The
THE HOBBLES.
THE LADIES: “Oh! What a cruel shame!”
Book. So when, in March, A. n. 1911, the
Methodist Missions had their annual corroboree
in Sydney, the Boss got up and lamented that
poor Fiji was still tike a child ; and he called for
help to save him, and stop him from disturbing
the Sawbath, and teach him to work better for the
white brudder. A Rev. Dr. announced that the
Sunday-school kiddies at Strathfield had given
them toffee money, even £52, to help in the
Blessed work. Whereupon the meeting whooped
for joy. and went home rejoicing that Fiji is likely
to be plucked from the burning after all.
“How dare you have six dances running with the same man?"
“Hush! Be qiciet. It's not a man! ”
“ Carton ” : Slowly and silently she laid
the white, lifeless little form in the place that had
been prepared for it. Tenderly and gently she
rose, and gazed for the last time on that which
she had borne. Mute, dry-eyed, alone, for a short
space she leant over the little rounded body
that was fast growing cold. Suddenly those
who were near, all unconscious of the scene
•that was being silently enacted within a
stone’s throw, were disturbed by the ear-
splitting, heartrending shriek that echoed
through the stillness of that early summer’s
morning. Again there was silence; then
a second shriek; then shriek upon shriek.
Hastily getting into a pair of slippers, I
rushed in my pyjamas to the spot. I raised
the lifeless little body, carried it to the house
—and had it fried with some bacon for breakfast.
The old spotted hen had done her duty again.
* * * *
“Miles”: “E.S.C.” (B. 16/2/’ll) makes
a far bigger “bloomer”—or rather three of them
—than either Seymour, Lucas or De Neuville.
He speaks of the “rifles ” of the troops employed
in the Gordon Riots. The rifle was not intro-
duced into the British army till nearly 11 years
after the Gordon Riots. Also, Lucas is perfectly
correct in showing the bayonets on top of the
barrels. The bayonet was first fixed in the barrel;
then (about 1760) it was fixed on top, where it re-
mained till approximately 1825 or 1826. (I speak
from memory, not having my Greener here.)
The introduction of the rifle led to the
bayonet being placed on the side (Snider and
Martini-Henry), where it remained until
about 15 years ago, when the introduction
of the magazine rifle led to its being placed below.
So De Neuville is right, too, if “E.S.C.” refers to
Rorke’s Drift, for that fight was in 1879, when
most of the troops were armed with the M.-H.
rifle, Mark 1. De Neuville is recognised as a
most accurate historical painter, and for his de-
tails would naturally go to either the Tower of
London or the Woolwich Rotunda. “ E.S.C.”
might do likewise before criticising. Possibly he
would regard it as a “ bloomer ” if he saw pictures
of troops using leather cannons, four-barrelled re-
volvers or bronze swords ; but the pictures would
still be right if the dates were right.
* * * *
N.S.W. Works Minister Griffith has ex-
tended the glad hand to a deputation of local
government bodies, which made application for
power to keep the unsightly hoarding fiend at
bay, and cast his placard to the 44 winds and his
colored shriek to the rubbish-tin. When the
Local Government Act was passed the councils
had authority to deal out trouble to the dis-
figuring nuisance, and some of them did
it to the extent of 10s. a foot. But a
word in the Wade Government’s ear sufficed to
gain for the paste-pot permission to roam at will,
and leave its unsightly tracks over the beauty
spots of the city, suburbs and harbor. Griffith
has now stated his intention of re-delegating the
control over advertising hoardings to the local
bodies, and the unclad lady whose buzzom bulges
over Smith’s corrugated corset will be ordered off a
considerable number of streets before long, arid
the outraged feelings of harbor trippers will be
soothed by the removal of the awful paunch
belonging to the naked infant who was fed on
Bullpup Concentrated Stuffing. The trouble is,
the scheme doesn’t go far enough in its optional
form, because there are several councils whose
views on the unsightliness of their neighborhood
are regulated only by the cash accompaniment.
It comes back to the urgent necessity of a Minis-
ter for Grace and Elegance, armed with an Act of
Parliament with a long reach ana a big punch.
“D.” : Said the Rev. C. J. Prescott, in
his presidential address to the Methodist Confer-
ence: “ The Church has no right to become the
friend of the working man if the price of it is that
she become the enemy of the rich man.” What
of the Scriptural declaration re the rich man, the
camel, the needle’s eye, and the Kingdom of
Heaven? What of half a hundred similar pro-
nouncements from holy writ, teaching that the
rich man is out of the scope of grace by simple
reason of his riches ? But why argue ? The plate’s
the thing. Give and be forgiven.
Captain Young, of the steamer Nolise-
tnent, rolled into Melbourne last week witli an
idea for a sensational sea novel. Last November,
whilst bound for Buenos Ayres, he picked an un-
clothed mariner out of the ocean some 60 miles
from St. Vincent. There wasn’t a ship in sight
at the time, or a smudge of smoke on the horizon
to indicate that there had been one. When the
lone man had been hauled in, and dried and re-
freshed, he explained that he had fallen overboard
from a steamer called the Milton, he didn’t quite
know when, and had been swimming ever since.
He only remembered tearing his wet shirt off in
strips, and guessed that he had got rid of the rest
of his clothes whilst swimming in a trance. When
he tried to get a rest by floating, the attendant,
fish mistook him for a dead body and started to eat-
ins arms and legs, and he had to swim ceaselessly to.
keep them off. Yet that man’s first words, on
being helped up the rescuing steamer’s ladder,,
were a sort of apology for having screamed for
help. “ I thought you were going to pass me,”'
he gasped. They landed him at Buenos Ayres ;;
and unless he has been killed by slipping on a.
banana-peel, he is probably afloat once more..
Davy Jones has plainly no use for that man.
“Kaysim,” from N’York :
Two or three years back one misfit light upon a tiny
paragraph about Australia, tucked up in a corner ot a
New York daily, about twice in a twelve-month. Now
the word “Australia” hits my homesick eyes with the
force of a southerly buster at least twice a week from the
leading pages of the dailies. In the delectable 20 minutes
in which it takes the subway cars to whirl me to and
from business morning and evening, the jamb of humans
is too tight to give one the chance to move anything but
eyes, and these I occasionally lift to meet the words
“ Pure Australian Wool,” writ large and arrestingly in
commendation of somebody’s wear for men. That “ad ”
is the only comfortable piece of furniture in the subway
system. The costliest blankets are advertised by the
best and most expensive firms as being made of
Australian wool. And on January TO, in Moquin’s,
the principal entree of the day read: “Australian kan-
garoo braise au vin blanc ! ” cents—half a crown.
Moquin’s is, next to Martin’s, the nest French restaurant
in the States. Another Australian animal is being uti-
lised in the adornment of fashionable and wealthy New
York women, who will this winter wear Australian
’possum furs. And they’ll pay for them a price that
would almost buy the selection where Billjim caught
them.
* * * *
The angry words of a newcomer to the
Northern Territory :
The Northern Territory has a heavy handicap in the
clique that runs things at Port Darwin. Anyone coining
in with a view of “locating” is met with a hot volley of
stinking fish or a cold shower of stand-offishness. There
is no social life of any kind. But, though that is bad,
there is something worse. Local merchants buy the most,
inferior stuff imaginable. Goods condemned in the South
are considered good enough for the North. I ordered!
some groceries from Port Darwin. When they arrived!
the currants and raisins were full of maggots, and the
bacon and everything else full of weevils. I threw the lot
out; then wrote and stated the condition the things were
in and deplored the fact. I received a reply that they
did not keep groceries that would suit me, and they sug-
gested that I should try somewhere else. I need hardly
say that I did ; also, I need hardly say that I got no re-
fund of the money I had paid. I don’t believe weevils
and worms are better eating in the Northern Territory
than anywhere else, and I don’t believe they will attract
settlers, and I don’t think the people whom we are trying
to get into this part of the Commonwealth are less en-
titled to pure food than others. Wherefore the sooner
the Commonwealth Government pushes a vigorous hand
into the business the better.
THE MOURNER.
At Busselton, Westralia’s early-day whal-
j n g p or t of call, the State’s first Gin v. White
man maintenance suit was tried last month. The
verdict went against the bad white, who was
ordere d to hand Mary 4s. a week until the black -
and-tan offspring is 16.
.
ypl , wan t something really good in the way
G f razorsor razor strops, buy the Diamond Edge brand,
the best that money can buy. Razors 7s. 6d. and 10s. 6d.
each. Strops 6s. Sold only by the Sole Agent, T. Wild,
Vice-Regal Hairdresser, 30 Sydney Arcade; entrance
from George or King Streets, Sydney.*
IN A YEAR OR TWO.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
•‘Th’ pris’ner ” sat in the spiky dock ;
His head was bandaged—his face was white
Like one who’d suffered a fearful shock.
“ Probably been in a brawl last night.”
That was the judgment the court-house horde
Passed on the man who waited in pain,
Till someone read from a sheet—“ James Ford—
Dhrunk whilst in charrge of an airyplane ! ”
N.S.W.
TILL THE RISING.
BALLADE OF REASSURANCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Sweetheart, I would not have you grieve,
When in your glass you look and see
Your beauty vanishing ; nor fear
Its ultimate effect on me.
In ev’ry age, in ev’ry clime.
In ev’ry dialect and tongue
Thinkers have laid this maxim down :
“Those whom we love are always young.”
You say your hair is turning grey,
And that your eyes, which used to hide
A thousand, thousand dancing lights,
Each one of which I deified,
Are fading :—Darling, smile again ;
Move unperturbed the world among ;
Heed not Time’s devastating hand ;
Those whom we love are always young.
The fairest flowers of them all
Must bud and blossom, bloom and die,
(A natural provision which
Applies, of course, to you). Shall I
Attempt to cavil at a law
Whose beauty myriads have sung?
No ! No ! mine own. And, anyhow,
Those whom we love are always young.
Envoi.
Angel, be reassured by this.
Which is a moral certainty—
However old and plain you get
It will in no wise worry me.
I still will love, although my heart
At other, fairer feet be flung—
Accordant with that mighty truth :
Those whom we lov e are always young !
N.S.W.
J.B.D.


J^OTICE
TO SAWMILLERS.—In stock in Sydney, 2 “ Robey ” 1911 Model Portable Steam Engines-
Double Cylinders — 25 Nominal H.P. ( 87 Brake Horse-Power),
30 Nominal H.P. (105 Brake Horse-Power).
Those requiring prompt delivery for the most up-to-date Portable Engine should communicate with;
ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER & CO.,
Circular Quay (East), Sydney ; or 34 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CAPE EXPLOSIVE* WORKS, LTD.
Gelignite, Blasting Gelatin, Dynamite, Detonators and Fuse supplied.
“NO CONNECTION WITH ANY COMBINES
Special Coal Mining Explosives.
NOYES BROS. (SYDNEY), LTD., 109 Pitt Street, Sydney, (Sole AjrentsJor_N.S.W^_
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Westport Coal Co., Maoriland’s biggest
coal-mining concern :
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
Dec., £ £ £ £ £
1904 .. 15 p.c.= 42,000 90,540
1905 .. 69,224 15 „ „ 42,000 5000 12,224 102,764
1906 .. 61,451 15 „ „ 42,000 5000 14,451 117,215
1907 .. 50,216 12J „ „ 35,000 5000 10,216 127,431
1908 .. 51,244 12£ ~ „ 35,000 5000 11,244 138,675
£BO,OOO of reserves capitalised .. .. 58,675
1909 .. 38,598 12J p.c.= 35,000 5000 57,273
1910 .. 52,622 10| „ ~ 37,333 5000 10,289 67,562
This is Maoriland’s biggest coal-mining concern ; and it
appears to be also one of the most prudently managed
cos. in the Dominion. One has so often to find fault with
Maoriland public and private finance that it is a
blessed relief to be able to say that, so far as
financial management goes, the Westport is a model
which Australian coal cos. would be all the better
for following. The past year’s figures show a Diyr
improvement on those of 1909. That, however, is mainly
due to the fact that during 1909 the co. suffered from a
fire, which not only lessened production, but cost
£12,000. Now what appears to be the normal has been
reached again. Certainly the old 15 per cent. div. has
not been reached ; and probably it was not expected,
since the capital has been watered up from £280,000 to
£360,000 by the transfer of reserves—a process, by the
way, which is now being repeated to the extent of £40,000.
This latter amount will not, however, be represented by
new shares, but will be applied to fully paying the 400,000
shares, which lately have had a liability of 2s. Apparently
this transfer will not affect the visible reserves ; the amount
will come out of a contingency fund, which the directors
had up their sleeves, and which they spent in construction
work at the Denniston mine. The work done here has
increased this mine’s possible output from 900 to at least
1200 tons per day.
The table shows £5OOO a year written off. This
is a sum put aside for the return of capital. The manage-
ment of the Westport doesn’t humbug itself as to the
.nature of its property ; it realises that the best of mines
must be worked out some day, and that every ton taken
out brings it a ton nearer its end. lienee, what is called
a sinking fund has been established, and vested in trus-
tees. The total amount paid to them has been £35,000 ;
interest accretions bring the total to £39,862. But be-
sides the amount set apart for sinking fund, and shown
in the table as written off, unspecified sums are written
off revenue to provide for unmentioned contingencies.
This table shows how the chief Property item has
shrunk, in spite of the expenditure on new works :
Re- Re-
Total. duction. Total, duction.
1904 .. £351,298 | 1908 .. £335,698 £11,904
1905 .. 354,699 1909 .. 317,085 18,613
1906 .. 350,573 £4,186 1910 .. 317,027 58
1907 .. 347,602 2,971 |
Or the progress of the co. may be shown this way:—
1904. 1909. 1910.
Liquid assets .. £91,221 £176,260 £193,399
Liabilities .. .. 43,978 51,493 54,670
Surplus .. .. £47,243 £124,767 £138,729
In six years, therefore, £91,486 has been earned and put
by. Meantime regular dividends have been paid and very
large sums spent on works.
Last year’s output was a record. For some few
terms past the figures have been :
1904 . 632,228 tons. 1908.. 613,218 tons.
1905.. 1909.. 560,809 „
1906.. 570,000 „ 1910.. 616,531 „
1907.. 610,750 „
A large quantity of the output is consumed by the war-
ships, which burn Westport even when lying in Sydney
Harbor; and this no doubt had some influence indeciding
the Admiralty to make more use of Auckland Harbor in
the future. But the worship demand cannot be relied
upon. The oil-propelled warship is already here.
Moreover, Queensland will some day certainly be a com-
petitor for the supply of smokeless coal. Nearer at home
the co. has its troubles in the opening up of State mines
to supply the railways and other good customers. Still,
as to a market, the Westport has no troubles worth
mentioning compared with those which most Australian
cos. have to face.
Two or three interesting changes have been
made lately in the constitution and management of the
co. General-manager Joachim, who has nursed Lhe
co. during 25 of its 29 years, has been made
managing director. At its present rate of pro-
gress, another 29, years will see the sinking fund
reach the total of the capital. The shares hitherto have
been £4 10s. paid, with a 10s. liability. Lately they were
divided into £1 shares with a 2s. liability, which liability
is to be wiped out by a bonus and an equal call, as men-
tioned just now. The life of the mine isn’t officially
estimated, although it is declared that the sinking fund
will total the paid capital long before the endoomes.
The Union Bank op Australia
Written Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves.
£ £ £ £
Feb 1903.. 109,649 Bp.c. = 60,000 50,000 1,019,793
Aug 1903.. 126,330 10 „ „ 75,000 47,000 1,024,123
Feb 1904.. 112,182 10 „ „ 75,000 10,000 1,051,305
Au<"’ 1904 115,830 10 „ „ 75,000 25,000 1,067,135
Feb 1905.. 100,374 10 „ „ 75,000 10,000 1,082,509
Aug.’ 1905.. 100,767 10 „ „ 75,000 10,000 1,098,276
Feb ’ 1906 100,879 10 ~ „ 75,000 10,000 1,114,155
Aug’ 1906.. 152,251 14 „ ~ 105,000 10,000 1,151,406
Feb 1907 227,904 14 „,, 105,000 70,000 1,204,310
Amr’ 1907 146,560 14 „,, 105,000 10,000 1,235,870
Feb’’ 1908’ 145,188 14 „ „ 105,000 10,000 1,266,058
Aug'.’ 1908.. 136,386 14 „ ~105,000 10,000 1,287,444
Feb ’ 1909 . 335,562 14 ~ ~ 105,000 10,000 1,308,006
Au<-’’ 1909.. 135,873 14 „ ~105,000 10,000 1,328,879
Feb 1910 . 136,049 14 „ „ 105,000 10,000 1,349,928
Aug’.’, 1910.. 141,454 14 „ ~ 105,000 15,000 1,371,382
It is something of an anomaly that this bank has not in-
creased its capital for just over 30 years. A while ago
the profits of the bigger banks increased so much that
the choice lay between putting up the dividend beyond
10 per cent, and increasing the capital while continuing
to pay the 10 per cent, rate all round, on new capital as
well as on old. The bigger and most prosperous Austra-
lian banks which were on the 10 per cent, mark resolved
upon the latter course ; and from several points of view
it was the wiser choice. The Union and the ’Asia, how-
ever, both managed from London, chose to increase the
.dividend bevond 10 per cent., and thereby un-
doubtedly cried aloud for hostile attention. Certainly
tthis paper is not prepared to say that the Union
•wants more capital in the business. But that is
.only for two reasons: (1) because it holds such a very
(large sum in liquid form, and (2) because it seems quite
.certain that it has a large internal reserve. First, how-
ever, let us drop in this little block of figures
Liabilities.
Aug., 1909. Aug., 1910.
TCntes £440,176 £463,404 Inc. £23,228
Rills " 1,409,778 1,580,783 Inc. 171,005
Deposits .'.'19,879,569 21,449,290 Inc. 1,569,721
Liquid assets ..10,230.046 10,942,914 Inc. /12,868
Advances .. ..13,872,594 14,979,367 Inc. 1,106,7,3
Premises .. 560,762 547,579 Dec. 13,183
So the total liabilities are £23,493,477. The shareholders’
capital and visible reserves amount to £2,871,382. The
bank therefore holds about £8 3s. of the public’s money
for every £1 of the shareholders’; and, under ordinary
circumstances, that would be too much, and would call
for more capital in order to make things reasonably safe
both for shareholders and for creditors. Not that in this
case creditors need worry even if the proportion
got much larger, because they have the protection of a
shareholders’ reserve liability of £3,000,000. But, while
SJ to 1 is, in general, too big a proportion, obviously the
risk is reduced if a very large proportion of the borrowed
money is in coin or practically non-shrinkable securities ;
and in this case no less than 47 per cent, of all liabilities
is in that form. Further, it is quite clear that £1 of the
shareholders’ funds in one bank may be worth much
more than £1 in some other bank. That is to say, while
one bank’s assets may be overvalued—in which case the
reserves may not really exist at all—another bank s
lot may be undervalued, in which case there is
a hidden or contingent reserve as well as the
visible article. One can’t tell, of course, what a bank has
up its sleeve ; but one can form some sort of an opinion.
First, there is the test of the earnings. On its capital
and visible reserves the Union’s profits last half-year
were at the rate of £9 18s. Bd. per cent, per annum ; and
when a bank keeps nearly 50 per cent, of its deposits and
other liabilities in liquid form, and then shows nearly 10
per cent, profit, one can only conclude either that the
bank is doing a very risky business, which happens to be
turning up trumps at the moment, or that its assets are
under-valued, and that it therefore has hidden reserves.
Here is another comparison :
Liabilities.
Aug., 1900. Aug., 1910.
Notes .. .. £439,205 £463,404 Inc. 5*5 p.c.
Bills .. 1,808,665 1,580,783 Dec. 12'5 „
Deposits .. 15,226,186 21,449,290 Inc. 4'l „
Assets.
Liquid assets . 5,644,998 10,942,914 Inc. 93.9 „
Advances .. 13,697,373 14,979,367 Inc. 9*3 „
Premises .. 731,375 547,579 Dec. 25*1 ~
Note the shrinkage in the premises account. In these
10 years the bank has spent probably quarter of a million
in land and buildings, some of it rent-producing, yet the
item stands at £183,796 less than it did 10 years ago.
That is as good a proof as anyone can want that the
bank has been building up a very solid internal re-
serve. In the table large sums are shown as
written off. Most of these have been struck off the
premises account; but some—the past half-year’s
£15,000, for instance—have been used to write down
Consols. No doubt it is very proper to write down these
reserve-fund assets; but, all the same, they don’t bring
in a ha’penny less interest than they did before they
were written down ; so, from one point of view, the
amount written off is an internal reserve also. Probably
that explains why this writing-down is done out of dis-
closed profits, instead of being treated as an ordinary
shrinkage to be charged to Profit and Loss.
“ And, gentlemen,” said the acting chairman to
the shareholders in London, “ you may feel sure that
your kindly recognition at these meetings of their valued
services is greatly appreciated by the staff ”; and a
“cordial recognition of the staff’s services was carried
unanimously.” It is to be hoped that the clerk’s butcher
will cash the appreciation for at least a pound of break-
fast chops. By the way, the dividend was declared in
cash.
Apropos this matter, those English shareholders
who want to do something more for the staff think that
the best thing that can be done is to strengthen the
Superannuation Fund. It may be a good thing, but it
is not the best thing. Better salaries would be more
appreciated, especially by the younger men. And
that system would, in the end, also pay the bank better.
When a man who, instead of getting a bigger salary, gets
a bigger interest in a superannuation fund, or an interest
in a bigger superannuation fund, it is natural that the
chief officials should be very much disinclined to
remove him for anything but actual dishonesty ;
so the service becomes crowded with amiable incompe-
tents and never-sweats. Dissatisfied officers also remain
rather than sacrifice their pension rights ; and dissatis-
fied officers are a weakness in any concern. There are
several good insurance offices in Australia. Let the
Union and other banks pay their men better salaries,
and (if they please) let them insist on their officers insur-
ing in one or other of these concerns. They would find
it would pay better in the long run.
* * * *
The City Mutual Life Assurance Society
(Sydney):—
Added to
Written Assurance
Dec., Income. Claims. Expenses. Off. Fund.
1899.. £50,291 £22,890 £11,023 £l5Bl £14,797
1900.. 55,713 24,450 16,265 1950 13,048
1901.. 61,979 19,435 15,997 2209 24,338
1902 63,552 31,850 14,717 1555 15,430
1903.. 63,732 34,877 14,142 1468 13,245
Assets written up 3,071
1904.. 65,619 29,610 14,227 1586 20,196
1905.. 70,242 27,015 15,615 1971 25,141
1906.. 76,874 31,955 18,666 2006 24,247
1907.. 82,388 33,001 18,875 2055 28,457
1908.. 93,442 29,894 24,162 562 38,824
1909.. 106,689 34,512 27,078 5805 39,294
1910.. *134,210 f 51,974 28,961 7388 45,887
*This includes “ premiums purchasing paid-up policies
allocated from cash bonuses not drawn.”
fThis includes £13,309 “ cash bonus declared for 1909.”
No table which has to be followed by explanatory notes
is satisfactory ; wherefore the table on top of these re-
marks isn’t satisfactory. As the directors put it: “ The
figures in the revenue account are presented in a slightly
different form this year.” As a matter of fact they
are presented in a form so different that it is
almost useless to try to compare the last line in the table
with those that march ahead of it. No doubt there is a
simple way out of the difficulty, only one can’t be sure
that it is quite the right way. If the bonuses employed
to purchase additions to policies were shown separately,
we could just cut them off the total; and then we could
deduct the bonuses thus used from the total bonus
declared for the year, and show among the claims the
balance as bonuses paid in cash. That has been the
society’s own practice hitherto. But, unfortunately, the
bonuses employed to purchase insurance are lumped with
other things—“ Single premiums, including single pre-
miums purchasing paid-up policies allocated from cash
bonuses not drawn.” Hitherto no single-premium business
has been shown ; and probably 95 per cent, of the item this
year represents bonus additions to policies. If we regard
the whole lot as of this nature the last line would run
this way :
Ex- Written Added to
Dec., Income. Claims. penses. Off. Fund.
1910.. £121,588 £39,352 £28,961 £7388 £45,887
For purposes of comparison with previous figures, no
doubt that is a much fairer statement of the case.
Though it doesn’t show so large an increase in
the income this way, it still shows a very satisfactory in-
crease indeed. A growth of more than 100 per cent,
in 10years is excellent; it means that in the past lOyears
the co.’s income grew more than it did in the previous 22
years of the society’s life. During the last period there
have been considerable changes in the management.
George Crowley, who was “ manager ” (iri rather small
type) 20 years ago, became general manager in 1900, and
managing director in 1906 or thereabouts. There can be
no doubt whatever concerning the enthusiasm which he
has thrown into the business. Nor has he waited for
other and larger offices to do things. He hasn’t been
afraid to “play his own game.” For instance, among
the payments is a line : “ Payment to members by way of
Hospital allowances.” The investments are also a
rather unusual lot. In 1907 the co. began to purchase
stocks and shares in public cos. ; and in the beginning of
1909, when the item stood at £9665, the directors ex-
plained that “this represents an investment in the shares
of a few of our leading- banks and other first-class trad-
ing cos. At the present market values a profit of con-
siderably over £lOOO could be made by a re-sale. The
item has now reached £27,463, besides £lO,OOO debentures
of public cos., together nearly 8 percent, of the total assets.
Mortgages (property) represent 38 per cent,, public securi-
ties 15 per cent., freeholds and leaseholds over 14 per cent.
The management has explained at various times, referring
to the high rate of interest earned on the investments,
that a good deal of money is lent in comparatively small
sums, and more or less on the security of the borrower’s
character. This is a class of business which the big office
can’t well touch. There is a lot of risk both in this class
of advance business and in investment in trading cos.
shares ; and any responsible general manager who cannot
give the business personal attention is not likely to con-
sent to its being done at all. This society’s management
is skilful and watchful ; and, out of business of the kind
mentioned, it is certainly liable to make good profits
for the policy-holders. Indeed, a profit of £3500 is shown
on investments for the past year. (This is included
with the income in the table.) But it is a matter of
backing the management, which in this case, there is
little doubt, means the managing director ; and it is a
question whether trust funds of a life-insurance character
ought to be put into such securities, even though they
are selected by one whose judgment may in general be
unusually good.
For the reason mentioned early in this post
mortem report, it is very little (if any) use comparing the
expense rate with that of previous years. If, how-
ever, the single premiums are discarded altogether, and
the whole expenses are thrown on to the other business,
this would be the result: —
Expenses Compared with Total Income.
1901 ..£25 16 2 p.c. 1906 ..£24 5 6 p.c.
1902 .. 23 3 2 „ 1907 .. 22 18 2 „
1903 .. 22 3 9 ~ 1908 .. 25 17 1 „
1904 .. 21 13 7 „ 1909 .. 25 7 7 ~
1905 .. 22 4 7 „ 1910 .. 23 16 9 „
The true figures for the past year are probably slightly
under those given in that list. Still, as they stand they
compare very favorably with those of the previous couple
of years, notwithstanding that the new business—always
the most expensive item—has been larger than it was in
either of those years. The mortality experience is un-
usually satisfactory ; and though the actuarial report
does not accompany the accounts now available, it is set
out in the directors’ report that the annual profit or sur-
plus has jumped along this way:—l9o6, £8322; 1907,
£8935 ; 190 S, £11,204 ; 1909, £16,824 ; 1910, £21,167. And
meantime a contingency fund of £6OOO has been pro-
vided to safeguard investments. It isn’t a large reserve ;
but it is a reasonable start towards a larger one.
With regard to the change in the manner of
presenting the accounts, the old form seems the better.
The new form no doubt swells the figures ; but it seems
to be undesirable that the same amounts should figure in
the accounts twice—first as claims when the bonuses are
declared, and then as claims again when the same
bonuses added to policies, fall due for payment to the
policy uolder. * * *
Toohkys, Ltd., of the Standard Brewery,
Sydney:—
In Reduc-
Net tion of
Profits. Dividends. Deficit. Deficit.
July, 1904.. £10,440 4 p.c. =£ll,ooo £65,057
Jan., 1905.. 15,554 4 „ „ 11,000 £4,554 60,503
July, 1905.. 11,842 4 ~ ~ 11,000 812 59,661
Jan., 1906.. 9,930 4 „ „ 11,000 60,731
Reserve funds (£18,000) written off ; capital
written down from £550,000 to £400,000
(goodwill reduced to £22,500), leaving.. 16,231
July, 1906.. 12,128 5 p.c. = 10,000 2,128 14,103
Jan., 1907.. 11,528 5 „ ~10,000 1,528 12,575
July, 1907.. 13,471 5 ~ ~ 10,000 3,471 9,104
To Re- Re-
Jan., 1908.. 19,964 5 „ „ 10,000 *9,964'
Julv, 1908.. 13,977 5 „ „ 10,000 3,977 4,837
Jam, 1909.. 18,796 5 „ „ 10,000 8,796 13,633
July, 1909.. 17,545 5 „,, 10,000 7,545 21,178
Jam, 1910.. 19,911 5„ „ 10,000 9,911 31,089
July, 1910.. 20,025 6 ~ ~ 12,000 8,025 39,114
Jam, 1911.. 22,756 6 „ ~ 12,000 10,756 49,870
Thi? co. was floated in 1902. Australia in general and
Sydrtey in particular had been celebrating various things
during the preceding two or three years—the inaugura-
tion of the Commonwealth, the visit of the Duke, and
“fall,” “relief," etc., in S’Africa. The co., formed on
the basis of 3£ years’ bloated profits, soon struck not
only the usual headache in the morning, but a couple
of bad drought years in the country; and there
were a lot of bad debts to provide for. It
looked as though the co. had been over-capitalised
seriously ; and no doubt it had been to some extent. The
two Toohey estates, which had got £85,000 for goodwill,
met the co. most handsomely. They agreed to the straight-
out cancellation of 50,000 of their shares, on condition
that all the other shares—their own included—were
written down from 20s. to 16s. That reduced the capital
from £550,000 to £400,000. No sooner had that vigorous
pruning been done than Sydney floated into good times
again. The directors, however, evidently still had a few
things that they thought ought to be written further down
or off ; anyway, the disclosed profits for the next couple of
years were very moderate. Then they started to bubble ;
and they have gone on bubbling. The progress is even
better than the list above shows, because latterly larger
sums have been appropriated on account of depreciation.
This shows the, visible amounts written off; —
July, 1907 ..£2500 I July, 1909 ..£3OOO
Jan., 1908 .. 2500 Jam, 1910 .. 4000
July, 1908 .. 2500 July, 1910 .. 3000
Jan., 1909 .. 3000 | Jam, 1911 .. 4000
Those amounts come off for depreciation of plant and
machinery. The mon^y—£24,soo in four years—has not
gone in upkeep ; the directors report: “ All expenditure
in connection with machinery and plant has been de-
frayed out of current revenue, as heretofore.” Presum-
ably, therefore, it has gone into new plant.
Whether anything is written off buildings and
leaseholds, and if so, how' much, isn’t to be told from the
published accounts, which haven’t nearly as much to say
for themselves as Spoof Smith or W. Judkins. All the
details, in fact, can be gathered into this small or after-
noon-tea table: —
July, ’O6. July, TO. Jan.,’ll
Liabilities, less cash .. .. £55,569 £29,514 £25,248
Breweries, hotels, etc. .. 322,139 338,415 345,338
Stocks .. .. ~ .. 59,945 56,993 55,/12
Book debts .. .. .. 100,882 110,720 112,767
Gross profit on brewings, etc. 31,629 47,195 56,107
Rent and interest .. .. 7,629 7,744 6,756
Management, wages and
charges 27,130 31,914 36,107
It is fairly obvious that the turnover has increased ; the
two lines, “ Gross profits on brewings, etc.,” and “Man-
agement, wages and charges,” show that pretty plainly.
To comfort W. Judkins, this can, however, be assumed to
be due to the development of the ginger-beer branch of
the business. With £345,138 in a lump, represented
mainly by premises and properties, it is clear that the
shareholder and investor have to take a very great deal
on trust; if these assets or any of them are depreciating,
and the management is not writing off enough out of cur-
rent revenue to provide for that depreciation, then the time
will inevitably come when something large will have to be
written off in bulk, either out of reserves, or, if re-
serves are not enough, out of capital also. On the other
hand, the management may be taking a very conservative
view, and may be writing off more than enough. Nobody
who can’t get behind the counter can tell. But if the
directors are doing just the fair thing, then excellent
progress is being made, and a net profit for the past 12
months of a shade over 10£ per cent, w'as made—a piofit
which allowed very nearly 5 per cent, to be laid by. In
three years, ori the same assumption, £49,000 has been
stored up, in addition to whatever has been written off ;
and that amount laid by ought to be earning £2500
a year at least for the co. The reserve appropriations
for the past half-year, by the way, include £lOOO to start
a Public Risk Reserve and Contingencies Fund. A Public
Risk Reserve makes a frequent first appearance these
days. The idea is to have something in the stocking in
case a trolly of beer runs over a Wowser and the Wowser
recovers damages for the insult, and things of that sort.
* * *
Winchcombk, Cabson, Ltd., with head office in
Sydney, was put on the market in July last; but th“
business carried on by Winehcombe, Carson and Co., Lid.,
was taken over as from April 1, 1910. The old co. was
formed in 1899, and was of the private sort. The new
co. is in 400,000 shares, of which, however, only 205,755
have been issued. The vendors took 105,755 shares; the
public—mostly constituents —jumped at the chance of
taking the other 100,000, and rushed them to a premium.
On these latter shares 10s. was paid on Dec. 31, leaving
a 10s. liability. It was a walk-in-walk-out sale. The old
co. transferred even its reserve fund (L 10,254) to the new
one. On the other hand, the new co. was loaded with
£41,983 of goodwill; so, discarding that as an asset, the
new co. really started with a deficit of £31,729. The
position then and since then may be put as follows :
Towards De-
Profits. Dividends. Reserves, licit.
April, 1910 - £31,729
Dec., 1910 .. £13,549 6 p.c.= £5670 £7879 23,850
From this it appears that the average amount of capital
in the business during the nine months was £126,000.
The profit was at the rate of £18,065 a year. On the
mean capital employed, that profit would show a return
of 14j per cent. Seeing that only a 6 per cent. div. is
paid, a very large margin is allow ed to lay by and eventu-
ally wipe out'the goodwill item. Depreciation has also
been provided for, but to what extent is not disclosed ;
and as the new co. was to pay “ expenses, including stamp
duty, legal costs and other fees connected with the in-
corporation of the new c 0.,” these non-recurring items
have presumably been charged up with the ordinary ex-
penses. This probably explains why the £20,774 which
was stated to have been averaged in profits for
five years was not quite reached last year. Still
14 per cent, is not to be despised. Seasons will, however,
come when it certainly will not be realised in a stock and
station agency and produce-selling business of this sort,
unless all past history has to be thrown overboard as
valueless for reference. As before remarked, the co. on
December 31 had only called up 10s. per share. It had,
however, received £10,037 on account of uncalled capital,
and this and other debts brought the liabilities up to
£88,385. Further, the co. is extending its business in
Brisbane, where it is building ; **b it was
quite certain it would want more capital that it had on
December 31 last; and as the present is an unusually
good time to get it, the co. very wisely asked foranother
ss. per snare after the accounts iyvere made up.
* * * *
Standard Mutual Building Society (Melb.):
Profit on Writ-
Property ten Re-
Profits. Sales. ’ Dividends. Off. serves.
Jan., 1904.. £2230 £612 6 p.c. =£1434 —£14,400
July, 1904.. 1986 534 1 6 „ „ 1434 £338 15,148
Jam, 1905.. 2076 221 6 ~ „ 1434 16,011
July, 1905.. 1880 170 6 „ „ 1434 258 16,369
Jam, 1906.. 1869 441 6 „ „ 1434 17,245
July, 1906.. 1789 317 74 „ „ 1752 200 17,399
Jan’., 1907.. 2087 581 7$ „ „ 1752 18,315
July, 1907.. 1958 313 74 „ „ 1752 150 18,684
Jam, 1908.. 1952 288 7 S „ „ 1752 19,172
July, 1908.. 2102 753 8 ~ „ 1912 700 19,415
Jan., 1909.. 2009 379 8 „ „ 1912 19,891
July, 1909.. 2211 161 8 „ „ 1912 20,351
Jam, 1910.. 2319 294 8 „ „ 1912 21,052
July, 1910.. 2233 1239 8 „ „ 1912 501 22,111
Jau'., 1911.. 2342 1043 8 „ „ 1912 23,584
The co., getting into the usual trouble in the ’9o’s, coni-
promised with its creditors iii 1893. With the bi£
ideas then prevalent—and the remarks of to-day fre-
quently recall the remarks of 1893 and thereabouts
—the society undertook to pay off the principal
debt in seven years, and meantime allow 5 per,
cent, interest. In 1895 the society, having sobered
up, did the usual thing: it crawled in, in a pern-
tent spirit, and said it would try to pay the principal
when it could, and meantime would the depositors
(representing about £139,000) plea-e take 24 per cent.! 1
In 1900 it interviewed Justice Holroyd, and told him
that when it had previously been suffering a recovery it
had whipped the cat too severely. It proposed, there-
fore, still another compromise : If the Court would allow
it to go ahead with ordinary business, it would write
off half its capital, so as to allow for shrinkages in the
value of assets, and present a clean balance-sheet; and it
would pay the old depositors 4 per cent, on certain con-
ditions. At that time only about £37,000 remained to
pay off. The new scheme was accepted, and things went
ahead as follows: — ,
July,’ol. Jan., TO. July, TO. Jan., 11.
Liabilities .. £37,015 £31,117 £30,865 £33,188
Advances .. 19,998 68,757 62,841 i 0,455
Foreclosures.. 72,305 43,182 38,899 35,266
Costs, etc. .. 2,778 114 946 911
Meantime, as the first table shows, steadily-increasing
dividends have been paid on the written-down capital.
These have been helped by very substantial profits on
sales of properties—profits in this case being of course the
excess over the written-down values. As properties have
been sold the money has been put out in new' advances.
In many instances, no doubt, these advances are amounts
ow’ing by purchasers who have bought properties on
terms. The extent of the real building society business
which the co. has secured, is, therefore, uncertain.
And no doubt, in these days of State banks and other
similar aids to the struggling little man to get on his
feet, the field for the building society is much restricted,
and its chances of making big profits are hobbled ; while
tiie Starr-Bowkett societies are powerful competitors for
such building society business as there is.
The cinematograph businesses of Johnson and
Gibson and J. and N. Tait have been floated in Melbourne
into a co. with a capital of £lOO,OOO, half in reserve. The
amount was over-subscribed at the first fell stockbroking
swoop. Flickergraph cos. will presently be counted by the
hundred, and a lot of them are going to be the graves of
confiding capital and unreasonable hopes; for “pictures”
are the one form of show business in which the, newcomer
with no previous experience can supply practically the
same entertainment that is offered at the old-established
cinematograph theatres. Moreover, he can do it during
six months of the year without providing cover for the
audience, and on warm nights his cheap and easy way of
doing it is an additional attraction. Wherefore keen
competition is inevitable ; for many of the competitors
will be prepared to lose money—for a while, as they
think—by undercutting. # #
The British Broken Hill directors are holding
on to the Elmore flotation process better than Block 10
did. But the slimes are the trouble. The British is throw-
ingabout half its possible profits into its rapidly accumulat-
ing slime dumps, which is not good for the shareholders.
Even the De Bavay process, which at the Amalgamated
Oo.’s works is making good-sized profits, is only doing so
because spelter is at such a pleasant price. A slimes
dump, which means lost profits, is being piled up there
too ; and when it gets high enough to trip up the chair-
man of directors the Amalgamated Zinc Co. wil] also
start thinking. # # #
Broken Hill Junction is about doomed as an in-
dependent mine. B. H. Central manager Hebbard has
once more told the directors what he thinks about the
derelict concern, and especially its patchwork mill and
its as-good-as-new steaming plant. He has also told
them how much money they will have to spend in order
to ensure a bare margin of profit on the ore in sight at
present metal prices. It all works out something like
this : If a man builds a house at a cost of £lOOO, and sells
it immediately for £7OO, how much profit does he make?
In other w'ords, if the directors spend the thousands re-
quired to turn the mine into a profit-making concern at
the present price of metals, the visible profit on the whole
of the ore in the mine would not reimburse them for their
outlay. The outlook is, therefore, not encouraging.
Broken Hill South Blocks, after sticking at it
for 15 years, arrives with a dividend, “ of Is. per share,
less English income tax of Is. 2d. in the £.” Talk about
driving capital out of the country P Australia supplies
the mine and England collars Is. 2d. in the £ of the net
proceeds. The co. has sold the zinc Jump (about 30,000
tons) at a price which, it is anticipated, will leave a profit


Steam Users are invited to send for illustrated
catalogue of Engineering Specialities manufactured by
Bell’s United Asbestos Co., Ltd. Every description of
asbestos goods, patent “ Belfry ” steam valves and
asbestos packed cocks and water gauges are stocked
at the depots of Bell’s Asbestos Australian Agency, Ltd.,
315 Kent Street, Sydney’, and Beach Street, Fremantle;
also at Victorian Agency, W. H. Lamond & Co., 328
Flinders Street, Melbourne.*;
The Bigelow Patent Rock Breaker commends
itself to mine managers who welcome an effective
machine which is cheaper to maintain and repair than
Gyratory and other crushers. This machine is of the
well-known Blake type, but has sonie additional improve-
ments which have justified in practice all the claims
advanced by the patentee. The work of crushing is done
on the down-stroke of the pitman instead of the up-
stroke ; there is no strain on the pitman cap ; two large
side rods resist the thrust of the toggles, and enable the
jaws to be regulated within a large range; the back
toggle is so made as to resist all legitimate strains of
crushing, but will shear under exceptional conditions
and save the machine. The shaft and eccentric bearings
are self-lubricating ; the jaws are convex and concave,
and with the cheek plates are made of steel and are
reversible. The Austral Otis Engineering Company, of
South Melbourne, have installed a great number of these
machines, and hold the sole manufacturing rights for the
Commonwealth.*
FOR SALE Cheap, Second-Hand,, 15 Break
H.P. Tangye Gas Engine, in good order. Apply Manager,
Bulletin Office, 214 George Street, Sydney.*
The original “Balata’ Belting, patented by
R. and .1. Dick, Glasgow, maintains its high standard
of excellence, and is distinguishable from inferior imita-
tions by the maker’s name and brand on every few feet.
Sole importers, James Hardie and Co., West Circular
Quay, Sydney and Melbourne.* [4
Extract from The Finance Chronicle, London,
15/11 /’TO : “ Colonial Mutual Life Office. We have been
favored with a copy of an exceeddy businesslike prospec-
tus just issued by this well-managed Life Assurance
Society, setting forth the superior advantages of their
combined life, aocident and sickness policies; On coin-
paring the rates charged in the tables shown in the pro-
spectus, we find that at most ages, the premiums quoted
are exceedingly moderate ; in fact, the rates are in many
instances about the same as the average premiums
charged by most offices for endowment life insurance
WOOD PIPE is easy to lay and cheap to trans-
port, it is also cheap to buy and is practically everlasting.
The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Balmain, Sydney,
will send catalogue on application.*
Mine Managers and Engineers.—Send your
orders for miners’ drill steel, octagon, hexagon and
cruciform, solid or hollow ; manganese and chrome steel
castings and forgings ; all tool steels and engineers’ tools,
pneumatic tools, machine tools, saw blades and frames,
etc., to Bohler Bros. & Co., Ltd., 1 Angel Place, Sydney,
and at Melbourne.*
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
If so, write to Griffiith and Hassell, registered Patent
Attorneys for information. Address, 163 King Street,
Sydney, and 9 Queen Street, Melbourne.* [1
An economical proposition in belt conveying of
great interest to mining and mill managers, engineers,
etc. “ Condor ” Brand Registered Black Surface Hardened
Conveyor Belting—specially adapted for the Australian
climate —for conveying ore, sarid, metal, wheat, coal, etc.
Less than half cost of rubber belting, giving excellent
results, Kalgoorlie, Broken Hill and Wallaroo. Write for
price lists and particulars to Sole Manufacturers,
Hopkins Bros. & Odium Prop., Ltd., Leicester Street,
Carlton, Melbourne.*
Mining and assay requisites can be procured
at lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co. Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces, and
all modern scientific appliances kept in stock. Estimates
supplied for fitting laboratories. Head office : Flinders
Lane, Melbourne.*
Nobel’s Dynamite Factory, Hamburg, at the
recent Brussels World Exhibition received the highest
awards, viz., Three Grand Prix for explosives of all grades
for both mining and military purposes. This against all
comers. Mine managers in New South Wales, who are
experiencing trouble, write the agents, Wm. Adams & Co.
Ltd., 175 Clarence Street, Sydney. Large stocks on hand.*
Mine managers when requiring air compressors
either belt, steam, or electrically driven, should; not fail
to inspectthe Reavell Air Compressor, when they will be
impressed by its simplicity, compactness and portability.
Owing to the working parts being entirely enclosed it can
be placed to work on any part of the mine, either on the
urface or underground. The number of repeat orders
which Messrs. Reavell have received from the mining
community proves how greatly their compressor is
appreciated. The representatives for Australia are
Messrs. Babcock and Wilcox, Haymarket, Sydney.* [2
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne
and Adelaide). Thirty years’ practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
Assayers, Mine Managers, and Prospectors
write to H. B. Silberbkrg and Co., 443 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining requisites
and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc pulverisers to 200
mesh; hand sample grinders to 120 mesh; Ainsworth’s
assay balances sensitive to 1/13000 grain ; prospector’s
balances to 1-/1000 grain; weights; pocket transits;
gasolene combination furnaces; Morgan's crucibles;
chemicals; etc.*
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (Limited),
2, 4 and 6 Spring Street,
,'i. , Sydney. , '
Specially qualified to act as
Trustees, Executors,
Administrators,
Attorneys under
~ Power, Agents, etc.
Absolute Security combined with Effi=
cient and Economical Management.
Trust Funds to Lend
at from 4 per cent.
A. J. MACKENZIE,
Write or Call for Booklet. Manager,
GREENING’S
SCREENING.
Agate Steel, Phosphor,
Bronze, Brass.
Write for particulars to
FRASER & CHALMERS LTD.,
Equitable Building', Melbourne;
Macdonald Street, Kalgoorlie;
New Zealand : D. M. DAVIS, Agent, Hall of
Commerce, High Street, Auckland. [•>
NOBEL-GLASCOW EXPLOSIVES
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine. Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
of £lO,OOO. Hence, probably, the dividend. The last
accounts certainly didn’t justify it otherwise.
• * * *
Diamond mining in Inverell district (IST.S.W.)
is getting a move on again. A syndicate, headed by Dr.
Flateau, who has had bad luck with four tin dredges in
Glen Innes district, has made a start on what is known as
the Old Farm at Copeton. A trial shaft bottomed at, 60ft.
on 3ft. of wash gave 15 carats diamonds and 201 b. of
tin to the load; and another washing of 15 loads is re-
ported to have given 352 carats, valued at £4OO. Other
shows are bucking up, partly by reason of a better local
demand for the stones.
* * * *
At the Queen Bee (N.S.W.) the main shaft has
been sunk 20ft., making it 63ft. below the 570 ft. level; so
it will not be many weeks before another level can be
opened. The deepest level has been driven 84Sft. to the
north, and the end shows soft slate and quartz carryinga
little copper, not payable at present. Southern ore-body
prospects have also been poor lately.
* * * *
Principal Westralian results for January :
Value
Bevenue. Profit, per ton.
Tons. £ £ s. d.
Gt. Boulder .. .. 16,558 44,407 23,421 53 7
Ivanhoe.. .. .. 19,511 37,871 18,031 38 10
Kalgurli .. .. 8,450 21,336 10,631 50 6
Boulder Perseverance 20,003 25,808 6,589 25 9
Golden Ridge .. .. 2,702 7,018 3,760 51 11
Gt. Fingall .. .. 10,185 15,388 2,611 30 2
Mararoa 2.66 S 6,412 2,836 48 0
South Kalgurli .. 9,220 12,138 2,449 26 4
‘Oroya-Brown Hill .. 21,332 4,723 2,142 4 5
Lake View and Star ... 13,316 16,494 697 24 9
‘Oroya-Black Range.. 4,350 8,731 2,223 40 2
‘Lake View Consols .. 9,443 1,676 431 3 6
Black Range .. .. 1,909 6,206 2,064 65 0
Northern Mines .. 6,617 7,575 1,651 22 10
Sirdar 1,100 858 160 15 7
‘Hills Proprietary .. 1,700 1,533 276 18 0
Boulder No. 1.. .. 1,912 2,444 106 25 6
Ingliston Consols Ex-
tended .. .. 1,120 2,826 656 50 5
Menzies Consolidated 2,236 3,995 319 26 9
Cumberland .. .. 222 806 237 72 7
Ingliston Extended .. 820 1,980 5 48 3
IdaH 1,232 3,930 1,175 63 9
Loss.
Golden Horseshoe ... 22,418 25.626 .1,902 25 6
‘Marvel Loch .. .. 900 420 381 9 4
Oroya Links .. .. 7,515 8,956 526 23 10
‘Treating residues only'.
* * ‘ * *■'
Great Boulder (W.A.) now estimates its ore
reserves at 760,177 long tons, containing 670,821 fine ozs.,
valued at £2,423,135. At the present rate of output,
this puts the mine about 3J years ahead of the mill; or,
put in another way, there is an approximate net profit in
sight of 11s. per share. Compared with the estimate of
12 months ago, the present one shows a slightly increased
tonnage, but a drop of £101,865 in gross money value. ,
# • • *
IVfore prodding with the diamond drill at
2800 ft. in the BOulder (W.A.) shows the body of ore
located plumb on the Horseshoe boundary to be 9ft. wide
ahfiworth 28d\vt. Additional boring at that depth from
the'Boulder shaft also shows the two narrow rich veins
to have 3ft. of 89s. stuff. So far as Boulder is concerned,
the question of speculative value is wholly confined to
the' things that development may bring forth below
2650 ft., where the co.’s present, bottom works are situ-
ated. In the case of the Horseshoe, whose shaft is still
some 800 ft. short of'2Booft. in depth, there are possibili-
ties in the shape of the discovery of good ore at the
various levels to be opened up en route. Ivanhoe also
Has a bit up its sleeve in this respect, as the ore body cut
by the drill is probably the downward continuation-of
the Boulder loop lode, on which little or no work has
been done below 500 ft.
* * * *
Golden Horeshoe (W. A.) has tacked a number
of improvements on to its new mill. Coarse screens are
used on the battery boxes and the pulp is run through
tube mills. The stuff is thus ground fine, and a lot of
time is sfived in doing it. Both the battery and tube
mills are driven by- electricity. Other additions to the
plant are a 65ft.-in-diameter tailings wheel, 12 extra
Wilfley tables, and four 200-ton cyanide vats filled by belt
conveyers. The fact of valuable ore being struck by- the
Boulder bore in Horseshoe ground 800 ft. vertically below
the present bottom level takes some of the roughness off
the track which the co. is now treading.
* * • *
Hans Irvine, ex-newspaper man, had rare luck
when-he pouched the Black Range (W.A.), chiefly for
himself, but incidentally for a decent lot of sports in
Western Victoria. This is the way things have gone to
date:—
Tons. Oz. Gold. Dividends.
Battery .. .. 110,071 103,614 1 „ Ifia Kf ,„
Cyanide .. .. - 26,236 / 500
The high yield accounts for the creamy milk in this
cocoanut. Costs nowadays’ are being cut sharply, and
work out at 14s. 3Jd. per ton for mining and crushing,
3sj 4d. for-hauling and pumping, Is. 3£d. for office and Mel-
bourne expenses, and Is. 1-Jd. for etceteras, the whole
coming to 20s. Jd. per ton. Development meant 7s. 1 jd.
per ton additional for the past six months. This is stiff; but
the co. has spent a lot of money in going north to find out
if the stone makes beyond the crosscourse there, and has
had the luck'at No. 5 level to prove the pitch a good one.
This isn’t the best.piece of news by any means, though,
because at Nos. 7 and 8 levels assays for a run of nearly
400 ft,, oyer a width of 3Jft., average lfoz. per ton. Well
may Haris Irvine do a gush that values “ continue to ini-
prove-with depth,” and that shareholders can “ look with
eVety confidence to divs. for some years to come.” He has
made a. reputation as a .mining tipster, so one could wish
he had built his prophecy on a wider base than 45,000 tons
of ore in sight. Allowing 28,000 tons handled annually,
that is a two years’ reserve ; so it is, clear .that a big slab
of stone yet unproved is counted on to occur beyond the
crosscourse Or at greater depth. Nevertheless, seeing
that No. 8 level is only 550 ft. vertical, and that the shoots
have lengthened in the bottom levels!, Irvine can be given
some latitude, though even for a successful prophet it is
safest to stick to ore proved on three sides.
* * ■* *
Anxious inquiries are being riiade in the West
concerning the whereabouts of the Derwent Jack Syndi-
cate. When the Bullfinch boom was in full blast, this
concern acquired a lease some three miles from the main
camp, and as a- result of reports that the 2oz. lode was
“ exactly similar to Bullfinch,”:the £lO shares issued to
the public .soared to £26 10s. Then the market tumbled,
andlatterly the shares have disappeared frdtri the quota-
tion lists. Recently word reached Perth from Adelaide
that the syndicate was about fojloa.t itself info a larger
co. ; but attempts made by, interested parties to confirm
this report or even get word aS t<s what is going on' behind
the scenes have 1 proved futilbib If this should meet the
eye of the lost, stolen or'strayed syndicate, it is requested
to make an effort to come forward and show itself; and
any reliable information respecting its intentions will be
gratefully received, especially by VVestralian shareholders.
The four battlers who own the Gimlet (W.A.)
paid for some quick sinking on the Gimlet South. They
sank an underlay shaft, 13ft. by 7ft., 375 ft. at the rate of
15ft. per working day—two shifts for three weeks, and
three shifts for one week. There were three men in the
bottom, and one used to give a hand to the engine-driver.
The ground was steatite, with iron and quartz leaders in
it, and it all went through the mill at the rate of 13’4 tons
per stamp per day. It averaged 9s. per ton over the
plates and 9s. in the slimes, and the ore was as slimy as
a snail farm in France.
* * * *
Babylonian (W.A.) came into the world with a
scream, and has held its breath ever since the float. It
was in 150,000 shares of 10s., of which 80,000 were issued
at 2s. application and 2s. allotment, and 70,000 fully-paids
and £5OOO cish went to the Greenfinch G.M. Syndicate.
Reports stated that “bulk samples of assays from the
ironstone lode, exposed for some distance by potholes
and where reef was exposed, gave a return of loz. 15dwt.,
and other assays made by Mr. J. L. Wallace gave from 2oz.
tolOoz. from the whole of the samples he took.” That un-
compromising pessimist, Mr. B. B. Pettigrew, also stated
that “gold shoot proved 400 ft. long ; surface values from
2oz. to lOoz. per ton.” A few weeks ago they costeened
the “ lode,” and found it to be floaters lying on granite.
The show may have a chance yet in the iron lode from
which the floaters presumably were shed ; but the 70,000
shares and £5OOO cash look a vast deal to pay for the
chance.
* * * *
Cabled that the Westralia United Goldfields,
Ltd., has been floated by Herman Mandelstam and some
others of the Badly Chosen People, and that the W.U.G.
will have a capital of £750,000, and will work, among other
things, a collection of blue ducks at Kalgoorlie, known as
the North End mines. The cable doesn’t say how much
of the £750,000 is paper and hot air, nor whether the co.
is registered in England, where 5 per cent, of the capital
must be put up before registration ; or in Jersey, where
you can register a £20,000,000 co. if you have just enough
to pay the fees.
•X * * *
Randolph Bedford sticks to his high opinion of
Bullfinch: —“Bulletin (9/2/11) prints the yarn of ‘an
old mining man who swears he hasn’t a penn’orth of per-
sonal interest in the matter.’ The O.M.M. makes many
misstatements. No. 1 shaft of the Bullfinch bottomed
in ore ;,No. 2 is in schist, because lodes have a habit of
going out of shafts at some time or other; andtheNo. 2 ore
body dipped out at 90. There is a quartzite bar between
Nos. 1 and 2, and that is why two shafts were sunk 40ft.
(not 30ft.)apart; and as the No. 1 ore body is distinct from
the ore body in No. 2 shaft, driving from No. 1 wouldn’t
have proved the height of the richer ore in No. 2. No. 3
shaft was sunk in country and off the track of the ore
body. No. 4 shaft is 70ft. from No. 1, and is in 6oz. ore,
with 7oz. ore in the drive from No. 1 advancing to meet
it. The water shaft ore body, 275 ft. to the S.W., is un-
doubtedly identical with No. 2 ore body, and the work
now being pushed on will prove it so. Fred Morgan
states the value of the great body of ore in the water
shaft at 1305., and his statement is more to be
trusted than the 9dwt. prospect of the mysterious
‘ visiting engineer,’ and the anonymous ‘ indepen-
dent expert' who wasn’t permitted to go below.
The Bullfinch i- big enough to beat all the mysterious
‘independent experts.’ Prophecies are bad things to
make, as a rule ; but I dare say that, on the evidence of
the newest development in the water shaft, the connec-
tion of that working with No. 2 shaft should add
£500,000 to ore in sight dow'n to the 100 ft. level."
* * * *
Shareholders were all smiles at the Gold In-
dustry of W.A. lheeting, held in Perth on February 16.
The co.’s accounts show a profit of £46,098 on transactions
to date, and the previously-declared dividend of £35,000
—equal to 100 per cent, on the subscribed capital—was
vociferously agreed to. The co. now holds, among other
assets, 40,000 Bullfinch Prop, shares, and in his address
from the chair Vincent Shalleross said that the Board had
refused £2 apiece for 10,000 of these shares, and had also
declined to sell at even a higher figure.
Last year Whim Well (W.A.) produced 5738
tons shipping ore averaging 16 per cent, copper, and 16,462
tons smelter ore containing 5 per cent, copper, together
equalling 1741 tons fine copper. Total ore shipments
for the period were approximately 8500 tons of 16 per
cent, by steamer, and the balance,averaging 11 percent.,
by sailing ship.
* * * *
The pioneer productive mine of Collie (W.A. ),
the Wallsend Proprietary, is a roaring hell again. Old
smouldering walls in abandoned workings, which were
directly responsible for two deaths from “black damp”
in New Year, week, have broken out beyond control.
Pqison fumes are now within a long hop, stop and a jump
of the old pit mouth, seriously jeopardising £llOO worth
of doal-cutting machines. The happening will have the
effect of hustling along the opening of a new tunnel on
the company’s extensive area.
Bendigonia hasn’t done much of a crawl yet.
This is the show the Argus puffeth in the hope that a hit
will swell up Bendigo’s business and ease down the call-
list. Bendigonia’s object is to prove that Bendigo
saddles exist at Ohewton. Scientists wheeze out that the
beds of Silurian there belong to the same age as those
to which the New Chum, Hustlers, Moon and other famous
bores at Bendigo belong, and that gold should, in conse-
quence, be got. Two Bendigonia bores have, however,
hit nothing but barren slates and sandstone, whereat
“ Geology ” Dunn went and covered himself with sack-
cloth and ashes. Queen-street luck came with; thb third
bore, which seems to have alighted on a, speck.of gold.
The Bulletin does not want to check John Brandon’s
vigor, because it likes a straight go. Still, with a wide
experience of boring results, it cannot yet boil its billy
with enthusiasm because a speck of quartz and gold have
come out of the core of a diamond drill. All the same,
it gives J. Brandon hearty ehbouragement to go on
boring. On the law of averages, it’s time for him to get
a decent show, to take away the taste of the failures that
have floated in and out of Queen-street during the last
five years.
★*’ * *
Two of the Finks keep a watchful eye over the
fortunes of the Great Southern Consols, Butherglen
(Vic.), just as one or two of them used to keep a finger
moving in the Burnt Creek pie. Their invasion has not
helped the decaying alluvial show. Just £385,000 has
been dropped into the Great Southern Consols, of which
nearly every shilling went down No. 1 shaft, for the mag-
nificent return of £19,000 in divs. Of course, the £385,000
didn’t all come out of shareholders’ pockets. That isn’t
the Victorian way; their bit was £46,000, leavings the
mine to provide the rest. This policy leads I/ictprian
deep lead shows into the worst of plights. Otie call to
keep the banker sweet, a six months’ run of work, then a
bit of a share flutter should there be one or two decent
yields, and away back to the banker again .for another
advance. If hard cash had been put up, panelling
stopped till wash was opened up and drained, and a
power of men to then rush out the wash, the Consols’
12Jdwt. dirt ought to have paid well, and should pay
still. With the run of gold narrow, this, indeed, is the
only way to make it pay. Manager E. Visick has started
a new shaft to better affairs, but if he crawls in the old
style the same round will be recorded. Good ground, he
says/ extends from 29 to 30 rises. Why not get a slab of
the gutter drained? That will give shareholders a show.
* ■* * *
• Champion, Ten Mile (Vic.), is an out-of-the-way
claim that, having just crushed 520 tons for ‘2490z., talks
divs. and booms as freely as any Bullfinch fledgling-. Cham-
pion is no novice. He has been in the share ring 1 ever
since the Star of the West shed brilliance on the mining
horizon. Crushings like the forementioned promise to
keep him there a bit longer. He is not a squib so far
as size of reefs'go. At No. 3 intermediate there is 14ft.
of indefinite matter described as “formation”; and, at
No. 2, stone 7ft. wide is boldly claimed to be pay-
able. So things are happier with the Champion than
they have been for many a day. Yet the Board
let one Morrison, a director, fork out £l7s' to meet cur-
rent exes, until the clean up. The same Board announces
that “ with the enormous quantity of crushing dirt in
sight, the future of the mine seems assured ” ; wherefore
dependence on Morrison, whether Morrison acted out of
generosity or not, was poverty policy. Champion has a
future, provided it can live down the reputation of the
Jamieson district for patchy ore. Water is available and
power cheap, so low-grade dirt will pay. The trouble
will be to convince the speculator that the Champion’s
big body has much vital matter in it.
* * * *
The Wonga, Stawell (Vic.), of which great
things were expected on account of the Moore vacuum
filter process, blew out as badly as any of the' other
attempts to work this alluring proposition on a big
scale. It only worked through about 60 tons or so, after
which operations ceased. There was some talk of im-
porting an electric hoist from America; then came a
re-sampling of the faces and the pronouncement that the
stuff was too poor to pay. As every load carted from the
open-cut was supposed, after exhaustive testing, to be
“ highly payable,” and as the highly-payableness could
hardly have evaporated in the open air, the end came as a
surprise to Stawell; but as the co. went into liquidation
and sold the plant, everybody has arrived at the harrow-
ing conclusion that “ there must have been something
wrong," though nobody knows exactly what. Whether
it was too little capital, too little gold, too little
experience, or a combination of the lot, the fact
remains that the latest attempt to work the
Wonga has resulted in more shattered hopes, reputa-
tions and banking accounts ; and the only people to date
who have no reason to shiver at the word Wonga are
the old-time miners who rooted out the best runs of
the stuff and crushed it and passed it slowly and care-
fully over copper plates and blanket tables. And most of
them are dead and past shivering, anyhow. Present
situation is that any man who wants a big Stawell repu-
tation can get it by merely dropping in and making the
Wonga lode pay. There is undoubtedly a lot of gold,
though it seems only a fair thing to add that it is mixed
with a lot of dirt.
* * +.. *
For three months to the end of January Mt.
Elliott (Q.) smelted 11,450 tons of ore for 1521 tons
copper, thus obtaining an average extraction of practi-
cally 13 per cent, copper. A ton of blister can thus be
run out of between seven and eight tons of crudes, as
against 40-odd tons at Mt. Lyell and 30-odd tons at Mt.
Morgan ; and while this high extraction lasts, blister can
be produced for £2B per ton. Immediate needs are pfo-
videdfor; but a change must come someday. At 31ft.
down the winze below No. 4 level the ore assays only 7
per cent. ; and No. 5 level (550 ft. vertical) has been driven
219 ft., without meeting with better than 4 per cent. ore.
* * * *
Last fortnightly crushing of the New Brilliant
Freehold, Charters Towers, was 711 tons for £2708, or £3
16s. 3d. per ton. The deeper levels are not looking too
well; but the Freehold gives a wide scope for prospect-
ing. No. 5 level, on the hanging-wall reef, is showing a
decided improvement at 272 ft. from the boundary. This
is at the same vertical depth as No. 5 in the East Mexi-
can. There is a fair quantity of backs over this level in
the Freehold lease, although ultimately the reef will
slant upwards into the Mexican. The latter co. has not
done any prospecting for this body, because its levels are
fairly close to the boundary. It is becoming certain that
both the hanging-wall and footwall shoots are pitching
from east to West and into the deep levels of Mills’
United. Fortunately for the Freehold, it has 1200 ft.
along the line, besides having a number of parallel and
cross reefs to explore.
* * * ■*
The Roma Mineral Oil Co. (Q.) has been search-
ing for a plant to bore 4500 feet. At a meeting of the
shareholders held recently it was announced gloomily
that no further applications had been made for shares.
One Joseph Porter wrote to say he had a plant capable of
boring to any depth ; and as the co. is mighty anxious for
a “friend in need,” Porter may possibly prove to be the
“ friend indeed.” The co. adjourned its meeting to talk
with Porter.
* * * *
Mount Morgan could do with more luck— or
something. One of the old jackets the other day blew'
out; and that and the recent floods, which.hindered the
arrival of fluxes, will shrink the output for; February, a
short month in any case.
* * * *
Blair Athol North Coal Mines is the name of a
little co., formed to work a mineral lease (No. 26),
near Clermont ,(Q.). The area, of 200 acres, adjoins
Spring’s mine, now owned by the Blair Athol Co.
Spring's mine at one time supplied the Government rail-
ways w'ith coal. The hew co. is'sinking 150 ft., though it
is expected that the seam will be found in less than that.
• * *' *
Many years ago gold was discovered at Mount
Witty, in the Logan (Q.) district. Nothing much was
done with it till a few. months ago, when a local co. was
formed with the object of thoroughly testing it. Trenches
and shafts have been sunk, and assays show results rang-
ing from sdwt. to 2oz. 7dwt. Seven cwt. sent to Sydney
gave a return of joz, of pure gold. Boring has been com-
m'enced to test the property at depth.
* * * *
The Gqorge tin mines, comprising a group at
Sandy Creek (Q.), were floated in London lately with a -
capital of £50,000, under the name of the Standard-Con-
solidated Tin Mines. Present issue is 30,000 £1 shares ; and
J. Bull has an option over the remaining 20,000. Gerald
Williams—who does Australian mining, work for London
Times—gave an exhaustive and, on the whole, favorable
report oh the proposition. 1 As there is a good tonnage
of 3 to 4 per cent, stuff in the dumps, the co. shouldn’t
waste any time in rushing up a mill and. thus getting the
benefit of the present boom prices for tin.
**- * • *
R. Boyd, who for 10 years managed the Wood-
lark Island Prop., before it passed into the hands of the
Kalamadau Co., reckoqs he has something big on Misina
Island, about 130 miles from Samarai. This is his reckon-
ing : “ A gold-mine wi th a lode, the face of which is 140 ft.
high and 80ft. wide, and from which, in 5J years, 1050 oz.
of”gold has been taken.” Ari 80ft. lode, and 1050 oz. in
51 years. The thing seems out of perspective, somehow.
* * * *
Kulamadau (Woodlark Island) advises 1372 tons
of mine and hill ore treated for 815 oz. and 24 tons concen-
trates ; total value, £3455; profit, £1650. Btapingjis being *
carried on faces of ore from 4ft. to Bft. thick. The latest ;
level opened up is No. 2 South’ on 6ft. of ore. A rise is
now being put through to the surface for ventilating pur-
poses, and a start has been made in the main shaft. '
About July should see this shaft down to a depth corres-
ponding with the No. s,level, and when a connection, is
made the co. will have a chance of opening up on a large
scale.
’ * •* * *
Mt. Bischoff (Tas.) intends to develop the
northern slope of the mountain, where large boulders of
ore have been found, but so far no defined ore body.
Large sums of money- are to he spent on the central rock-
breaking plant, 'aerial ropeway and another reservoir.
Reserves of payable ore, with tin at £lBO, are fairly large,
because at that price very low-grade dirt will pay; ;but
the reserves of better r grade (for instance, those at the
brown face) are not heavy; the average of £ percent,
oxide proves that.
Capt. Richard, of Mount Morgan, practically
says ditto to Dick Williams, the mine superintendent of
Waihi ; and he couldn’t well say anything less cheerful.
He took little time over his e.xa,inination ; wherefore
shareholders in M. L. are still calling for a report from an
engineer appointed by themselves.
Every engineer in charge of factories and mills
should give close attention to the power wasted in trans-
mission of power. The Hyatt Flexible Roller Bearings
save 20 per cent, power and 75 per cent, of oil, so one of
the first duties is naturally for engineers to direct their
special attention to these bearings and to car boxes for
trucks. Hyatts are in continuous use in Cement Works,
Ore Dressing Mills, Factories, etc., in Australia. Bush-
ings of flexible rollers may be applied to loose pulleys or
truck wheels, etc. Should engineers require further
details, they can apply to the Australian Agents, W. &
J. Lempriere, Melbourne ; or E. W. Hursthouse & Co.,
of Wellington, the Agents in New Zealand.*
* » • *
“Ferrodor” Paint.—Specially manufactured
for preserving galvanised iron and steel. Unaffected by
sea air, sulphur fumes, cyanogen gases. Used on Mort’s
Dock and Mt. Lyell buildings; Hawkesbury, Princes and
Victoria bridges ; P. & O. and N.D.L. steamers, etc.
Covers 1000 sq. yards per cwt. Does not chip or flake.
WM. ADAMS&CO., Ltd., Sole Agents, King and Clarence
Streets, Sydney.*
**. * *


THE OXFORD HOTEL
KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Central and Charming Situation.
Special Attention to
the Cuisine. . . .
Lift and all Modern Conveniences.
Tel. 321.
F. 0. Robinson. Proprietor
Ideas. “If I could add an invention to the
world’s happiness what would it be ? Would it save
work in factories ? No. In another direction is ipecjal
thought needed. Though remarkable for much, the last
century was unremarkable for lessening women’s house-
hold duties* The greatest need to-day is appliances or
systems to diminish the sum of domestic duties. If I
could add to the world’s inventions' it would be a
mother’s ‘help’” he said, turning to patent agents,
Phillips Ormonde, 266 Flinders St M Melbourne.*
LEWIS & WHITTY’S OLIVE OIL.
Guaranteed in conformity with the PORE
FOOD REGULATIONS of the Australian States.
LEWIS & WHITTY, Melbourne and Sydney, u
McKENZIE’S EXCELSIOR BAKING POWDER.
A BORIGIN-
ALITIES
“Jimmie Pannikin”: Evidently, sheep
have a better effect on man than cows have.
Most sheepmen, in my experience, have improved
their standard of living as they have prospered—
built better homesteads, surrounded themselves
with the comforts of civilisation, worn better
clothes, enlarged and beautified their gardens,
and entertained more often and more hospitably.
On the other hand, the cattlemen, as a rule, “pig
it,” just as they had to do in the old days of
strenuous struggle. Their bank balances bulge ;
but their homes and their home-life remain as
painfully plain as of old. One famous cattleman
right out back had no outhouses on his premises
—and still has none. When he bought the station,
he pulled down the fences round the expensive
vegetable garden and the lovely flower garden,
and turned the cattle and horses in for a “ blanky
good blow-out.” When remonstrated with, he
said he had “no flamin’ time fer picnickin’.” He
is only one of many, and if any Abo. can elucidate
the matter I’d take it as a friendly act. No
suburban Abo. need apply.
AN UNJUST CHARGE.
THE MEENISTER: “ McPherson , you hue brought
dishonor to Bonny Scotland the day."
THE McPHERSON: “ Dinna ye (hie) fash yerself,
mon. It didna (hie) cost me a nickel."
According to Howard, Chief Protector of
Black Brother in Bananaland, the Northern
Binghi is an accomplished person in the art of
making new words. Barracking for the Austra-
lian black brother as against the South Sea
Islander, Howard mentions that when the
islanders first became acquainted with hooks they
didn’t invent a name for them ; but waited until
the missionaries told the English name, and
then they called books as near to that as
their tongues could take them. Binghi, on
the other hand, noticed that a book had
two covers, that it opened and shut, and that
it was hinged at the back. It reminded him
of a mussel, so he promptly called it “ mooy-oom,”
which is what he calls that shellfish. “ Yacca” is
his word for work, and he calls reading, writing
and anything else done with a book “mooy-oom
yacca.” He calls the sun “ beegy,” and as it is his
clock, he calls anything in the shape of a watch or
a clock “beegy.” With him “paiango” means
sick, so when he found out what medicine was for
he called it “paiango-ba” (sick stuff). From
“mawgool” (head) he made “ mawgool-aba ”
(hat), “aba” being his word for covering of any
kind.
“DaveH. R.” : An appalling amount of
ignorance has been displayed by suburban Abo-
liars concerning the friendliness of native birds.
Why, blow it, some of these buslimen seem to be
stunned with amazement because a tomtit perches
on their nose, or builds a nest in Mrs. Bushman’s
hack hair. Bah ! Time after time, when I have
been “whaling,” and have bad nothing but the
bit of tea I’ve cadged at the last station, and have
put the billy on to boil, ducks, sometimes as
many as three, have flown up and dived straight
into the billy, and thus provided me with a meal.
Greater love hath no bird. The only trouble was
the feathers. Once, on the Barwon, I heard a
tremendous quacking amongst a mob of ducks,
and eventually out they all waddled on to the
bank and drew straws, and as soon as they decided
which bird had the shortest,' all the rest fell upon
it and plucked it before dropping it into the
billy. That’s what I call friendliness. And
then this gas about bird surgery! Surgery,
forsooth ! Here ! I’ve seen (and many a time
at that) a herd of birds corroboreeing over
one of their mates with a broken leg, and when
they’d decided on the best kind of bandage, some
of them have flown in and torn strips off my
shirts and other clothes, and taken out my needle
and cotton and sewn a bandage round the wounded
limb; and once a magpie flew into my humpy,
took my bottle of Friar’s Balsam out, and applied
some of it to the wound of a mate who had
suffered from a hawk. These instances are the
rule Outback; and if it’s Outback we’re talking
about, let’s have it from the men who know. I
tell you straight, old sundowners like “J. Panni-
kin” and myself and a few others are getting
full up.
* # * *
“Stoopid”: This is the plain tale of a shock-
ing case of broken resolution. Two ladies and a
small male cherub —the cherub asleep—shared the
first-class carriage on a S. Aus. long-distance
journey with me. In the course of a fond eulogy
from the mother, it transpired that the cherub was
four. After a time the angel awoke—apparently
with a liver, because, on my shutting a near-by
window, it addressed itself to me with a flow of
profanity which made me blush for my early edu-
cation. Whereupon the fond mother exclaimed :
“ Oh, my ! his father will he so disappointed.
This is the first time he has sworn for twelve
months .”
* * * #
“Martin K.” : In Bulletin 19/1 /’ll
“Giddap” asks: “Is the wood mouse marsu-
pial?” Some of him are. During’97 I was cut-
ting “ snap and rattle ” for Boulder mines in Bulla
Bulling (W.A.). There were a few mice about.
On high moral principles, I kill all mice, snakes
and gypsies. Killed a mouse one day. On con-
ducting a post-mortem on the deceased (always
conduct post-mortem on snakes, sometimes on
mice, but never on gypsies), found the usual mar-
supial pouch with three dead young ones and one
still alive in it.
* * * *
“Leo Lear” : The other day I saw the
first rounds of a hush battle that for endurance
promises to hold out till the Conclusion of Things,
when the last three-hall sign shall have been
* hurled back over the walls of Jerusalem
and the cracked bones of dead beings
are awash in their desolated cellars.
The row started when a colony of white
ants laid the foundations of their citadel
round a prickly-pear bush, and encased
the bottom stories of the pronged curse
in mud. As fast as the termites build
skywards, the anathema also climbs, its
top leaves at each stage becoming the
trunk of a new plant growing on the
roof of the nest. Now, I know of
nothing that will beat a vegetable
hedgehog, and am likewise ignorant of
the thing that a white ant won’t master.
So the plant will keep oh sticking its
tail through the insects’ chimney pots,
and the ants will continue to smother it
as it grows, until the Last Trump is
played, and the firemen of the Bottom-
less Pit are bellowing in a loud voice
for a wages board to reduce their hours
of labor; and when the final politician
who turned dog on his country has been
slowly boiled in kerosene, and there is
nothing more for the Devil to do but
turn the lights out and impale himself
on his tail, the night-watchman in
Paradise will look over the waste of waters
and see a prickly-pear leaf waving above the
flood With the sole survivors of the ant nation
sitting jii the dry side waiting for daylight.
* * * *
“ The Downy Bird When it comes down
to sheer friendliness, I’m for the butcher’s canary
or meat-hawk. This genial little songster counter-
balances its individual smallness by assembling in
vast hordes in the vicinity of anything which can
he eaten or used as a promising field for the rear-
ing of its young. There is a pub I wot of in the
Aberfeldy Valley (Vic.), where dinner can only
be eaten free from their attentions by sending a
boy to ring the dinner-bell 300 yards away in the
bush. Every butcher’s canary within earshot flies
madly to the spot, and by the time the stratagem
is discovered all the diners are safe inside, the
windows shut and the door barred. The boy has
to stay outside until the others have finished, but
ttie language of the birds, keeps his meal hot.
* * * *
“ Gil Gunn ia ” : “Camp Fire’s” scheme
for baffling bugs—namely, by warding them off
with a blanket—is (1) old, (2) useless. I have tried
and I know. If “Jimmie Pannikin’s” wayback
castle is really Howard-infested, he will be well-
advised to absorb the following straight tip: Let
him take half a pound of potassium cyanide, and
melt it in his bedroom. The Norfolk-haunted
chamber should be kept closed up during the
process. After an hour the place will be
habitable. “ Pannikin” should beware of touch-
ing the cyanide with his fingers; also, let
him escape promptly, and leave no eatable
nor any living thing that he loves in the room
while the fumigating is in train. If James is
desperate and cyanide is unprocurable, I would ad-
vice him to fix up a hammock to the walls of his
sleeping apartment with a strand of manila. The
enemy cannot cross rope, and thus the bush ex-
pert will sleep undisturbed, save for the impotent
curses of the Howards below.
A TRIFLING MISTAKE.
BRIDGET GWENDOLINE: "Take these coppers , and. the missus sez
go away wid yer noise and don’t play here."
“ San “ Bash ” (B. 9/2/’ll) reports that
transplanted eucalypti are attacked by hares and
rabbits, while the “self-planted” escape. The
former vegetables are no doubt attacked because,
when first transplanted, the treelings droop a
good deal, and in that state are in some way
tastier to the beasties. It is known among
gardeners that a transplanted seedling is most
liable to attack by snails during the drooping
stage, and, if protected during that period, will
be immune afterwards. I have known snails to
gallop miles to eat down a drooping young del-
phinium ; yet, save the plant from their jaws,
and it will afterwards provide a roostmg-place for
the shelly reptiles without being in any danger of
being eaten by them.
“ Moulamein Concerning chummy bush
birds. At one of our backblock camps an un-
tamed magpie shared the family life. Other
small birds he jealously drove from the place.
We called him “The Guardian Angel,” mainly
because, during severe heat, he perched above us
with wings outspread. When a beast was killed
he sat beside the slaughterer, his beak red to the
eyes with sheep liver. At such times his smile
was good to see. After an absence of three years
we re-visited and stayed a night at the old camp.
At daylight Maggie appeared and demanded
breakfast with as much assurance as though we
had never left. Then he took his old verandah-
perch and warbled a song with his waistcoat
visibly broader.
“Yarraman,” from the Remote North, on
weather prophecies:—
A tribe near Anson Bay (N.T.), acting under instruc-
tions from its wise men, recently built u small raft of
wood, charred it and left it on the beach well .loaded with
stones. When the tide takes it away the rains will come.
At present, there is very little rain, because some blacks
further down the coast are jealous of those that are here,
and their medicine men are sending strong winds to keep
the rains away. Only when they are overpowered and
fall asleep will rain come. So the old men of oqr tribe
are waxing fat, because the more presents they get the
more influence wnl they exert oyer the distant wind-
blowers, and the sooner will the rains come.
* * * *
“M.V.”: Once and for all, both emus
attend to the hatching of the eggs. I don’t know
what shifts they work, but dad is off duty some-
time after sundown, when he booms a serenade to
ma. One curious fact is
that when leaving or ap-
proaching the nest the
prospective parents walk
on the points of the toes,
making a faint three-
pointed track, very diffi-
cult to follow ; and the
same track is never fol-
lowed twice. Directly the
youngsters arrive from
Eggville the old man takes
sole control, shepherding
and steering them towards
the best emu apples and
wilga berries in the
vicinity. Mum never in-
terferes in the l manage-
ment of the flock. When
two cock emus guarding
young families meet, they
immediately advance to
battle, leaving their re-
spective offspring huddled
together. The victor col-
lects both broods and
departs for his home-
stead. In red country I
have seen a big, white-
necked cock with 45 young
ones of various sizes, and
birds with 20 and 30 are
common. Another un-
mentioned fact is that in
the emu’s plumage there
are two separate feathers
on the one stem. In
fact, there are so many unmentioned facts about
the emu that I call only conclude the writers on
emus have obtained their information from a
cursory examination of the relative of the ostrich
at the Zoo. For their special enlightenment I add
that the ben bird mostly lays the eggs.
* < ■ * . * #
“ Tin dog ” : Before we who live in
Broome (W. A.) were hit by the cyclone the other
day we knew that something was going to happen,
or was happening somewhere, though we didn t
know what. The air was dead, yet there was an
extraordinary sea-swell. When the storm came
it lifted the bottom out of ‘Roebuck Bay, and de-
posited it in the town. Fish were blown clean
out of the water. A large octopus Was whizzed
yards inland ; after gaining his breath he started
to cakewalk back to his native element again on
the extreme ends of his tentacles. One pearler,
who saw the beast first, thought he “had’em,’’
but being assured that the pub kept only the
best of spirits- in stock, he set the monster down
as the biggest daddy-long-legs on record.
“Bingo”: Notice that another “ Abo-
liar ” objects (19/1/T1) to the importation of dogs
from Britain, because, as he states, hydrophobia
is just as prevalent there as in France. Yes,
that’s so, as per official record for the last three
years :
Oases of hydrophobia (proved) in England .. Nil
Ditto Ditto ~ ~ France .. Nil
Probably the sterner prohibition against French
dogs is on account of their being liable to be bitten
by wolves, dogs, cats and rabbits from beyond the
five frontiers.
A VOICE FROM THE BAR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A brewery chemist has discovered a method of extract-
ing the alcohol from beer and stout and yet leaving those
muoh sought after beverages just as good in sparkle,
taste, flavor and nutritious and digestive qualities. In
this great discovery brewers and temperance men can
join, for it offers a fine field for both.— Gruesome news
item.
Wot blanky rot! It won’t be blanky beer !
D’ye think I'm goin’t’ drink th’ blanky stuff ?
I want th’ blanky same as I got 'ere !
What blanky rot 1 It won’t be blanky beer !
What 1 Temperance f’r me 1 No blanky fear !
No alkerhol ? W’y, there ain’t ’arf enough !
What blanky rot 1 It won’t be blanky beer !
D’ye think I'm goin’t’ drink th’ blanky stuff?
'Oo found it out ! That’s what I’d like t’ know !
What good is beer if it can’t make yer shiok ?
’Oo says that alkerhol’s me blanky foe ?
'Oo found it out l That’s what I’d like to know !
Th’ beer’s all right! Why carn’t they leave it so ?
Teetotal slops! Gorstrooth, it makes me sick !
'Oo found it out ? That’s what I’d like to know.
What good is beer if it can’t make yer shick ?
Some blanky people don’t know where to stop !
I reckon it’s a crime to fool with beer !
They think a pub’s a blanky chemist’s shop !
Some blanky people don’t know where to stop !
Ain’t it enough to make yer go off pop ?
I’d like to ’ave that silly blanker ’ere 1
Some blanky people don’t know where to stop !
I reckon it’s a crime to fool with beer 1
N.8.W.
E.O’F.
HERCULES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
/SING a song of Hercules,
A Grecian hero he;
You see , him not when first
you step
Within the oysterie.
Deft Spiro takes your order, oi
Demetrius the slim ;
You see no sign of Hercules—
There is no need of him.
But when some fighting drunk
holds forth,
And proudly scorns to pay—
“ Gen-out, you blanky Dagoes
(hie)
I'll fight yer for th’ Cray ! "
Then from some weird mysterious fair
There sounds a fearsome shout -
A huge fierce shape , all teeth and hair,
Comes . rolling swiftly out.
And, 10, the hero Hercules!
With wild uproarious hoist
He heaves the rebel to the pave
From out the unpaid oysl!
So here's a health to Hercules,
A Grecian hero he—
The hairy chucker-out on chain
At my pet oysterie l
VICTORIA.
AUSGUSTUS BLOWFLY.


Carters
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
Your Liver
is Clogged Up
That’s Why You’re Tired—Out of
Sorts —Have No Appetite.
CARTER'S LITTLE LIVER PILLS
will put you rit'lit in a few days.
They,do their duty. Cure Consti-
pation, -Biliousness, Indigestion, and
Sick Headache.
Small Pill, Small Dose, Small Price.
GENUINE must bear Signature
The Royal Hotel,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Most centrally situated Hotel in Sydney.
Best place to lunch and dine in town.
J. W. COCKBAINE, Proprietor.
Clement=Bayard
Motor Cars.
1911 MODELS.
SQUATTERS are afraid sometimes to buy a
Motor Car, because they fetft that they
(without an engineer or chauffeur) will not
be able to run it without trouble.
This is a fallacy as regards the Celebrated
Clement-Bayard, 1911 Model, Cars. Every part
is automatic, and the machinery issosimpie that a lad can successfully do everything that is necessary,
A child can drive theirt —there is absolutely nothing to do but steer.
Clement-Bayards are 2*5 per cent, lower in price than other first-class cars.
They are lighter (yet stronger) than most cars.
Th ( ey are the Acme of Perfection, of Material, and Finish.
Thfey are guaranteed for two years.
They are extremely light on Naphtha and Tyres.
They are specially made to our order for Australian requirements. They have very high clearance.
-■:-
8-14 h.p. 4-Cylinder, as shown,
with Detachable Back Seat,
£275,
Sole Agents:
Office—
Garage—
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street.
STANTON COOK LTD.,
Electrical and Motor Engineers,
6, 8 anti 23 Underwood Street,
off 37 Pitt Street.
THE BEACHCOMBER.
[For The Bulletin.]
Yes, that is what they name me, in pity and contempt,
A man with none to claim me, ill-mannered and un-
kempt ;
A beer and whisky shifter, part madman and part knave,
A hopeless, aimless drifter, spent flotsam of the wave.
Well, it is no misnomer. So, 'when I hear it said .
“SeeBlank, that old beachcomber!” with shakings of
the head
In Pharisaic unction, I pay no heed at all ;
Not thence can rise compunction within me for my
“fall.”
The sun still shines above me, and warms me through
and through,
And as for “ none to love me,” I know that love, I do !
The fond affection clinging to money, lands and stock,
The swift revulsion swinging from him who “ takes the
knock.”
I’ve felt “ the tender passion.” I might have lived,
unbanned,
In quite another fashibn, in some much staider land,
If Phyllis had been fonder, if Corydon less green—
I do not care to ponder upon what might have been.
More sinned against than sinning at times, perhaps, but I
Am noway now beginning my paths to justify.
I take a reputation that I’m too old to mend,
For, high or low in “ station,” we’re level in the end.
I have my pipe to cheer me, I’m lying by the sea,
A native girl is near me, she knows no god but me ;
I wear a lava-lava, ns frequently as not,
And drink my fill of Kava whenever I am hot.
I hear the palm-fronds making their trade-wind-trembled
croon ;
The white-roofed combers breaking beyond the reefed
lagoon ;
Mesmeric iteration of what I’ve learned so well,
The simple incantation that weaves the tropic spell.
So slip the days behind me, no turmoil in their wake ;
So their successors find me, quite satisfied to take
What good the gods have sent me to counter-weigh the
past,
A dolcefar niente, oblivion at last.
POLYNESIA. JlAKI.
* * « *
“ Bush Botanist ” : “ Marloo ” puts
“ Nunawading’s ” “ tea ” or “ ti ’’-tree (B.
12/l/’ll) deeper in the mud than ever. Captain
Cook, like most YorkieS, was fond of plant bever-
ages, from extract of barley and hops to lime
juice. His botanist, Joe Banks, backed him up
in this. Hence in Australia and Maoriland the
young shoots of Leptospermum soopartum were
taken on board, and from the captain to the cabin
boy all had “tea.” From that time to this, that
species of Leptospermum has been called tea-tree.
There is also a Leptospermum in S’Africa called
the tea-bush. Thousands of times the young
shoots have been used to make a pleasant aromatic
beverage. I have often used them myself. The
Melaleuca, which grows in swamps, is the ti-tree,
or, more properly, tie-tree. The strips of bark
were used by the firsters at Ports Jackson, Phillip
and Arthur in tying up the wattles in the making
of their wattle-and-daub huts. Some Melaleucas
produce a fibre strong enough to hang the man
who first said the tea-tree was the ti-tree and the
ti-tree was the tea-tree.
THE BLESSINGS OF PROVIDENCE.
COCKY : “ Did the storm do much damage at your place, Willie? ”
WILLIE : “ Nothin' to speak of. It jest blew a tree over on the ole woman and broke her leg,
and a limb fell on the ole man and laid him out. But none of the cows was hurt."
“T.J.M.”: Be hats off in court (B.
26/2/11). It depends on the presiding beak. Let
“ Wigo decline to remove his tile in a court
presided over by Read-Murphy, the Vic. P.M.,
and I’ll bet him ginger-beer for the crowd that he
gets at least three days.
“ A. William-Cann ” : My
withers are unwrung by the
intimation (B. 16/2/’ll) that,
henceforth, “J. Pannikin”
proposes to “ignore” me.
It is a way James has in
certain circumstances. A
month or two ago Jim
and I were divagating,
in quest of bush lore
and so forth, back o’
Turramurra (N. S.
Wales). A cry of joy
told me that some-
thing particularly
choice in the golden-
glory - of - the - bush
line was adjacent.
In a trice, or less,
“ Pannikin ” had left
the main road, clam-
bered over a low
fence and started
hacking pieces off a
flowering shrub. A
few seconds passed,
and then an ominous
howl, wherein rage
and amazement
fought for mastery,
jjpunded from a villa
“'on the right. Simul-
taneously an im-
mense Australian—
to judge by his
physique one of the
Best or Sunset Side
crowd—-surged clamor-
ously in the direction
of “ Pannikin.” Jim’s
decision was arrived
at with the speed of
the master-strategist.
He (James) decided to
ignore the enemy—and
to do it soon. I remem-
ber the old foot-racing:
days at Sir Joseph
Banks’ Ground ; I have
seen a Chow bookmaker
leave a baclcblocks race-
course with half a hun-
dred bilked clients in his
wake ; and I have watched
Liberal voteresses advanc-
ing on an electioneering
“at home”—in fact, bar-
ring the rush of capital
from the Commonwealth, I
have observed most of Life’s
speedy things in my time.
The ignoring of that suburbanite
by “ Pannikin ” beat the lot. It is said
that Jim reached Cowan Creek under the hour,
and was only deterred from continuing to ignore
his pursuer in a boat by the solemn assurance of a
party of motorists that the letter had long since
given up the chase. A quaint feature of this
episode was the fact that the shrub whose at-
tempted ravishment had caused all the trouble
was not a wattle, after all, but a unique specimen
of the Ranunculus Asiatious Superbissimus. This
the maddened householder informed me when he
returned, hot and dusty, from his effort to inter-
view my discreetly-exclusive travel-companion.
“Walt. K. Harris”: “Agram” (B.
26/1/T1) says he has been all over Australia, and
awards the prize for biggest trees to Nana Glen,
via South Grafton (N.S.W.). I was in that dis-
trict when my Bulletin reached me. Promptly
I looked for the champion trees, but I saw nothing
to alter my contention (Lone Hand, Jan., 1911)
that not only Australia’s, but the world’s, tallest
trees are in Gippsland (Vic.). If “Agram” had
said that the biggest trees on the N.S.W. North
Coast are at Nana Glen he would have been
nearer the mark; though I saw some giants in
muddy Dorrigo to run those of the Glen pretty
close. “ Agram ” also backs the gohannas in the
Glen as the biggest in N.S.W., and mentions one
which measured sft. 6in. If “Agram” will ex-
plore Mangrove Mountain (near Gosford) he will
get a drayload of specimens that length. I took
a photo, of one which measured sft. 7in.; and even
that giant didn’t make the local inhabitant a bit
astonished.
AT THE BOOKING OFFICE.
BILL BACKBLOCK (putting down a sovereign);
“Single to Hyde, Mister .”
CLERK: “ Change at Strathfield.”
BILL BACKILOCK: “ No, you don’t, Mister. Just
you give rue my change here, or else there'll
he trouble."
“ T. J.M.” : If everyone is finished curs-
ing the cow, I want to make a few remarks about
the boss. In this (Goulburn Valley) district he
is god. The cookies lean against the fence at
church on Sunday and talk about him till the
preacher comes. They rise at any time between
2 and 4 a.m. to feed him ; and 10 o’clock at night
sees whiskered visions, lamp in hand, letting him
out of the stable. When Cocky, jun., goes to see
his girl on .Sunday night, he must feed his horses
first; and when he gets to the old man’s place he
finds a few blokes talking horses. About 11
o’clock they start to disperse, remarking: “Oh,
well, my horses are in the stable yet.” “So are
mine, by cripes ! ” “ Oh, Bill ’ll leave mine out.”
So he gets a yarn to his girl at last; but if it’s a
long yarn, and he has to hurry far through the
moonlight, he doesn’t turn in “’cos the hosses ’ll
have to be fed by four.”
* * * *
“Poll”: “Skidadle” says that a dame
at Cairns (Q.) is the first woman he has known
to do wood-slogging to keep the pot boiling.
When the Chalk’s No. 1 mine at Carisbrook (Vic.)
was lumbering the shareholders with calls, a, 20-
stone woman had a contract for supplying part of
the wood for fuel. It was no matchwood either—
6ft. ironbark logs cut and carted eight miles by the
lady herself. But she was three women lumped
into one ! ’Twas said she proposed marriage to
an eligible bachelor thereabouts. Business im-
mediately compelled him to leave the district.
The lady continued wood-slogging for five years
or more, and then passed out suddenly, dying in
harness. Anyhow, the horse was in harness and
she in the dray.
POST AND RAIL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Melbourne, Wednesday.—Mr. Justice Hood to-day de-
cided in the Practice Gourt that a watercourse or a creek
was a fence within the meaning of the Fences Act. —
News Item.
The solution this is of a riddle immense ;
No longer need anyone seek
For water at ’Berra. Since a creek is a fence,
Then a fence must be surely a creek.
If I’m wrong I’ll be glad if you’ll all set me right
(I know I am foolish and dense)—
When the spectre of Drought haunts the capital site
Will O’Malley then build them a fence !
N,s.w.
FRANK JESSUP.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
Nonotice (except of a, hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on .1 [S3. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted , whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned tinless stamps (of any State) accompany.
Bellerive: It only needs a simple accompani-
ment to make a successful pathetic ballad :
DAISY MAY.
I miss thee, sadly miss thee, Daisy May,
Like a dream from this world thou passed away ;
No more for thee I wait by the dear old homestead gate,
Thou art anchored with the angels, Daisy May.
Sad and lonely I wander, Daisy May,
Memories hover o’er me where’er I stray ;
The golden sunlight gleameth
And the stars of night doth beameth
Upon thy sepulchre in the churchyard, Daisy May.
Jack M.: The topical rhyme is the better of the two,
but both are outers J.R.C.: The central idea is old.
Some good descriptive patches, but on the whole uneven.
T. VV.A.: Do you think you could write a paragraph
in three volumes? ...Waring: Good album verse ..
Sauterelle: The lizard rhyme ends weakly and the other
lacks point ...A.C.: Unsuitable. No stamps enclosed
for return. T.A.R.: Bright beer rhyme; but if you are
not certain whether or not it is your own, it must go the
way of all tripe E.H.F.S.: Drunk rhyme, like a good
many others of the same sort, not very enter-
taining. Verses feeble....G.T. Jr. (Melb.): (Jan’t use
it Clanmaek: Sympathise with you, but both
sets of verses are below summer level....Klifton :
Afraid the hat trick cannot be performed....
J.H.G. : Your appeal to “Let a sleeping dog lie ” duly
noted, and disallowed on the ground that you are not a
sleeping dog—unless you are given to yelping in your
dreams A.C.8.: How blest is the dairy farmer who
rises at 3 G.M. by lamplight, in order that he may get his
morning milking over and rush to the show, and gallops
home immediately after dinner, so that he may do his
afternoon milking and grab a few hours’ rest before it is
time to milk again ! Sorry the verses embodying these
remarks are not good enough for print J.M.B. : Had
an idea of printing two verses of your pastoral poem,
with the cuckoo omitted; then found that the cuckoo
had swallowed the rest B.R. (Q.): After writing
seriously and sympathetically of the bush, and remark-
ing that the clouds were made for angels’ shrouds, it is
fatal to make an after-dinner admission of this kind :
I found to-day a scrub turkeys’ nest,
And I took their eggs for food ;
After dining I laid me down content
In a calm state of beatitude.
A soulful poet should never be seen recumbent with his
hands folded over his waistcoat.. . .Norseman : Weha\e
taken the liberty of rejecting it . . .C.T.E.B. : It reads
like an illuminated address :
FAREWELL TO A FRIEND.
It is with feelings of regret
And a sprinkling of pleasure
That friends have come from far and near
To show our guest what great respect
We have for one so dear.
We all admire the busy life
That she has led amongst us ;
To sick and poor she’ll find her way
Through sunshine and through shower.
It is nice, easy verse to write. Here is a slight addition
by the Religious Editor:
Although I am not acquainted with the lady,
It affords me considerable pleasure
To note that her friends have rolled up in large quantities
to see her off.
The general esteem in which she is held
Is very gratifying—even to a perfect stranger like myself.
It is to be hoped that when she goes to visit
The sick and the poor “through sunshine and through
shower”—as mentioned above —
She is always careful to take her goloshes, macintosh
and umbrella.
Because this weather is really terrible.
One can’t depend upon it for an hour.
Is she staying long?
Bellendion.: Neat verses. We refer to the penman-
ship.. .Juniper: Very dry gin story indeed P.J.W.:
It uan’t surmount the basket. .. G.P.0.: No name or ad-
dress, and a very inferior rhyme C.W. (S.A.): Note
that you have several pieces of poetry which you consider
good enough for any paper. Thanks for the “ charity
piece.” Have extracted one verse :
Yes, the daylight doth shine and Glitter,
Then the birds begin to sing and flitter,
And with their little songs so sweet
Our waking ears so sweetly meet.
.„..R.F. (S.A.): “The, Rhyme Editor” said that he
reckoned the two passionate love poems were the same
old conflagration. The Prose Editor, the Basket Editor
and the Religious Editor concurred. Then the Full
Court adjourned to the pub round the corner where the
barmaid flirts with difficulty and does her best not to look
middle-aged and stout An Australian Briton : The
statement of Premier Murray, of Victoria, that the bar-
maid is a siren is no subject for wrath. Be merry about
it, and tell the barmaid, who sobbed on your shoulder
when the boss had gone out, to cheer up and put her com-
plexion straight. Meanwhile you may sing as follows :
There is many a girl in a lighted pub
To whom I would be a brother,
And there’s many a woman who serves strong drink
That’s a jolly good wife and mother.
Perfectly correct. Also, some of them are so motherly
that their bars are haunted continually by grown-
up, red-nosed orphans, who can obtain sympathy
nowhere else —not even from their wives......
H.S.M. : This isn’t a nursery for spreading chestnut
trees J.K. .- Best thing you can do is to buy a sixpenny
grammar b00k.... R. B.T. :No hope unless you boil it
down A.E.C. : True; but why make the public ex-
plore for the truth in a Sahara of words? Topsail
Yard: That nail has been hammered already Jona-
than Backhand: Mr. Horsecollar has taken bis winkeis
off. Now, if you’ll do the same we’ll be square.
“Midd”: As to the friendliest feathered
friends, what has willy wagtail done that he’s not
quoted at all ? Dash it, I reckon Wag the neatest,
friendliest, oftenest and uncheekiest of all our
Australian birds, and his chatter re “Sweet
pretty little creature ” about the most cheerful
noise in the bush. As regards the dignity and
old-world courtesy of “Scapegoat’s” thrush —
why. Wag has far more dignity and real Austra-
lian courtesy (and that’s a long way ahead of the
ancient land's politeness). By the way, I’m cer-
tain “Pick” must drink, or he’d never herd with
such a bold, sore-headed cuss as the soldier-bird.


THE
BEAST
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Part I. —/ please my wayward senses;
’Twas but a week or two ago
I drew a picture ; not for show,
But to adorn my studio.
“This virgin Sheet,’’ I cried, “shall hold
All prowling monsters new and old
That gruesome Fiction ever told.’’
A horrid Hydra first I drew,
A sensual beast he was to view;
And near him was a Loup-Garou.
Amid a terrifying flock
Of slimy Dragons, on a rock
I drew a Snark and Jabberwock.
Also a Bunyip I had drawn,
A Bunyip basking on a lawn,
Laved in the livid light of dawn.
And Gorgons and Chimaeras dire,
With heads held high and tails held higher,
Were spouting smoke and spitting fire.
Such frightful creatures as I took
From fact and fancy, brain and book !
The picture had a Jim-Jam look.
Part 11. The A wful Consequences.
A Friend came in : a man of grace:
An Ornament to any place;
A Bachelor of Arts; his face
With meditative wisdom shone.
He was a Leader-Writer on
The Daily Megatherion.
He saw my Picture, and he shied ;
He wagged his head from side to side;
His knee-joints trembled; then he cried:
“ Good God , the Labor party !" —and
Foamed, spat and slavered; couldn’t stand *
And when I helped him, bit my hand.
I shuddered at his maniac wrath,
But wiped his whiskers free from froth,
And flicked him with a moistened cloth.
And when his frenzy had decreased,
And foaming at the mouth had ceased,
He wrote a Leader on the Beast.
It was a funny thing to do.
But Leader-Writers hold the view
That Labor is a Loup-Garou.
VICTORIA.
P.


y
Here we We life ta '*’ d
fcv A Sec«W KK&
~%e. Sbrno. Jxir forming in A'd of "#>&
locW cb^t\
SUNDAY CONCERT.
PROTEST BY MINISTERS.
At Friday night’s meeting of the
borough council a letter was read from
the Stawell Ministers’ Association pro-
testing against the proposed concert on
the following grounds “It Is contrary
to the best conditions and usage of the
British people that the Sabbath be used
for mercenary and secular purposes,”
etc.
-r , I
"I+- drinK v/of cJkmv me *o do.i'ie cntvje
-btCTir (WSVb'ic* me.
-fe dnnK 1
Henry Fiven, a youth, was charged ai
the Colllngwood Court to-day with hav-
ing used abusive language. Mrs. Fiven,
who appealed for leniency, explained
that the cause of her son's trouble was
the temptations of the counter lunch.
KooK*t >^
|| pc^cocK
. i
Cv'kJc nc**t**J
W,II Y vfeif - D'd
«j v ' e y? u *2 S°.° A } 7-
Z\ yotTno Ye<, on-HTe refer-e ndW
Youn.V.c Are /oo owi•"«,
be'tter reAS 0 ”* f o> ' vo '"%>
PAID FOOTBALL.
ASSOCIATION ACTION.
PROFESSIONALISM ADOPTED.
R^in^
tfaJf-bacK
A* 1
Ad^o^c^
N. yvioVe^e^
■ /l '- .. - .
7 Delin'— ""liKy N
I'stWi"*, re '
It has remained for the present Govern-
ment and the majority behind it to,
render the value of a referendum next
to nothing.... Injures both those who-
give it—the Commonwealth—and those,
who receive it—the States.' (Prolonged,
during.)— Dcskiit.
THIS AND THAT IN MELBOURNE.


GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
WORLD-FAMED
For
QUALITY.
HATS.
F or
DURABILITY.
Trade
Mark
ru
AND [ jj)
Tihm
APS
FOR INDOOR WORKERS.
Cooling! Refreshing!
Thirst Quenching! Bustainingl
PERSONAL
ITEMS
A man who was remotely connected with
Australia’s first beer, passed out the other day when
Timothy Small died at Ryde, aged 77. His grand-
father, James Squire, arrived in Sydney by the
first fleet, cultivated hops, and established the
first brewery in Australia, at Ryde. It is well he
got in early ; had he waited long enough he would
certainly have heard that beer could not be made
in Australia.
Died on the Upper Orara (N.S.W.), aged
94, the Rev. John Bannatyne, one of the pioneer
ministers of the Seotchbyterian Kirk of Australia.
He was a graduate of Glasgow University, and
could keep silent in six languages—except at an
Assembly meeting, where no good Presbyterian
divine can keep silent at all. When he was much
younger he pioneered the roughest districts of
Maoriland ; but Dr. Lang induced him to come to
Australia and start shepherding on the North
Coast.
Thomas George Clarke, a big grazier with
holdings in the neighborhood of Wangaratta
(Vic.), died in Egypt the other day of pneumonia.
Tom Clarke, his father, was one of the first set-
tlers in north-eastern Victoria. His mother, who
is still alive, is a daughter of the late Joseph
Docker, a pioneer parson. She claimed to have
been the first white woman to cross the Murray.
Thomas George, who was born on a station 54
years ago, leaves a young widow, lots of money
and no children.
SCANTLEBURY-THE HILL END
CAESAR.
J. W. Colville, who has been 48 years in
the Vic. Public Service and 26 years secretary of
the Board of Health, has just retired by effluxion
of age. The Department that cares for Victoria’s
innards will suffer by parting with him ; but the
State will be no loser if he can help it, for he’s full
of political aspirations. He was among the Labor
party nominations for the last Kooyong contest;
but was thrown out in the final ballot, and will
now most likely keep his eye on the P’ran seat,
with a view to shifting Donald Mackinnon when
opportunity offers.
Thomas W. McKenzie, one
of the best-known figures in Well-
ington (M.L.) history, moved on
last week to the land where there
is neither longitude nor latitude,
and time is not. He was 84 when
the Man with the Scythe tapped
at his door. McKenzie sailed from
London with his mother in the
emigrant ship Adelaide, and
reached the colony in March, 1840.
Soon afterwards he was apprenticed
to S. Re vans, the proprietor of the
first newspaper published in M.L.
(the M.L. Gazette and Britannia
Spectator). For many years he
followed the rough inky way of the
time; was one of the founders of
the old Wellington Independent,
and afterwards the sole proprietor;
established the Wellington Mail,
also the Almanac ; and for long was
manager and secretary of the Times
(still in existence). A man of strong
personality, McKenzie’s influence
was very marked in local politics,
and his probity amongst the early
settlers and later citizens was
reckoned at par with the currency.
Wherever Charity was moving its
machinery, it was safe to look for
him oiling the wheels, and earning
for himself the Order of Merit in
the Promised Land. *
Artist John Loqggtaff is back
in Melbourne, increased in girth
and reputation. He has been away
in the Fog for about 10 years, and
has returned to seek some days in
the sun. During his stay he pro-
poses to meet a lot of Australian
friends and paint a set of Australian
scenes. The latter will be taken to England in
May, and will form the nucleus of a London
exhibition.
Rose Bay Lodge, another of the “historic
homes” of Sydney, is up for auction. It was
built and occupied by Dan Cooper, the first
baronet, and was the home for many years of
John Hay, President of the Legislative Council.
The lodge was the only possession of the Coopers
that Anthony Trollope envied them. At least,
Anthony said it was the only one.
Nasty remark of the Age :
Lord Dudley’s successor as Governor-General of Aus-
tralia will be Baron Denman. Thomas, third Baron Den-
man, comes of a purely professional stock—lawyers,
clerics and medical men. Lord Denman has nothing to
be ashamed of in regard to his forebears.
As the boarding-house missus might say, “Lawks,
mum, as soon as I claps eyes on the label on your
luggage I says, * This is a lady.’ Now, the last
party as was here ”
You can tell the immigrant ship from the
liner, nowadays, by the youths and children who
don’t crowd the liner’s decks, but do the immi-
grant’s. Kiddies by the score swarmed the Ran-
gatira as she came in last week. Two sets of
parents boasted 10 each. An ex-imperial ser-
geant brought his seven strapping sons along.
Another had four sons and three girls, who will
all have votes in a year or two.
When Iceberg Irvine, K.C., in Victoria,
applied to be made a K.C. in N.S.W. also,
Attorney-General Holman searched for prece-
dents as to the appointment of an absentee prac-
titioner. Not finding any, he threw the Iceberg’s
application out. In theory, at least, K.C.’s are
appointed who are locally available to assist the
Crown when needed; and with two new K.C.’s
“taking silk” this week, there are already 16
silk gowns at the N.S.W. Bar, not counting Dr.
Donovan, who has retired, and G. H. Reid, who
is in England keeping the dog dry.
The Argus recently printed an article
about suppressed Australian books. The writer
mentioned that the Parkes Government ordered
the burning of all convict lists in N. S. Wales.
But, before separation, copies of these lists—well-
bound books—were sent to all police out-stations.
The late Justice Kerferd found a case full of them
in the Sale (Vic.) courthouse, and ordered them to
be sent to the Vic. Crown Law Offices. After-
wards Kerferd became Attorney-General of Vic-
toria, and, visiting Sydney as an ambassador re-
garding something in dispute between the two
States, fancied he was coldly received in official
circles. Whereupon he recalled that case of
books, and chuckled over the way he had pre-
served what N.S.W. thought it had annihilated
forever.
D. G. Ferguson, who will be Acting-Judge
of N.S.W. Supreme Court in the absence of
Cohen, J., is a local product, an old Fort-street
boy and a B.A. of Sydney University. At one
time he was on the Sydney press, and has been a
member of both the N.S.W. and Queensland
Hansard staffs. He reported several speeches
made by Lord Rosebery, when that eloquent
nobleman was in these parts. Rosebery used to
say that Ferguson reported him more intelligently
than any member of the craft he had ever met.
The new Judge is a Common-Law man, about the
best “pleader” at the local Bar, and as full of
modesty and diffidence as he is of learning.
N’York papers report the death in an asy-
lum of Robert Caldwell, the chief witness in the
Druce case. Caldwell, who is known in the land
of the tin ham as “ the king of affidavit-makers,”
swore that he put 2001 b. of lead into a coffin and
buried it —the coffin being supposed to contain
the body of T. C. Druce. The case of the
claimant to the Portland dukedom was that T. C.
Druce and the duke were one, and that the bogus
burial, sworn to by Caldwell, was the eccentric
old aristocrat’s method of ending his dual life.
However, when the coffin was opened, it was
found to contain a body whose profuse whisker-
ings and other disfigurements enabled it to be
readily identified as the defunct Druce. So
Caldwell bolted with a warrant for perjury in his
wake. America, possibly as a tribute to his unique
lying powers, gave him sanctuary from British
justice till he died.
NELSON ILLINGWORTH, the Sculptor,
whom the Maoris have made a chief
out of love for his “grey mud-pictures.”
Many thousands of years ago the Maoris,
in their monster war canoes, came over the waters
from Hawaiki, and peopled Maoriland. With
them came the tribal wood carver, who used to
make ugly little gods with fat bingies and three-
fingered hands. His name was Raurakitai, and
he came in one of the famous Arawa canoes.
Nelson Illingworth, the Australian sculptor, has
been doing a lot of good work with Maori sub-
jects, and whilst living amongst them at Rotorua,
the brown men became so enamored of the grey
mud pictures that they made him chief, and called
him Raurakitai. Somewhere in this issue is a
picture which shows how he dresses the part.
Dead, aged 80, ex-Puisne Judge Robert
Patten Adams, of Hobart—“ Cookie” Adams, in
the familiar language. He was the last of the
three Judges whom the present Judges succeeded,
his confreres being th 9 late Lambert Dobson,
C.J., and A. Inglis Clark. Evidently he had a
great opinion of these two, for he always con-
curred with them. Till a year or two ago, he
was what the dailies called “ a picturesque figure ”
about town —but not much of a figure ; only about
4ft. In politics, he was a virulent anti-Sosher,
and most of the other things that his brainy col-
league, Justice A. Inglis Clark, wasn’t.
Albert Dorrington has got London by the
wool. The Pall Mall gives him the place of
honor for a serial, and booms it thus: “Has
broken ground where the Goddess of Science still
beckons from her unsealed pinnacles . . . Keen
vision combined with a perfect genius for dramatic
situations . . . startle and bewilder the human
mind.” The first story turns on the theft of £6OOO
worth of radium from a locked laboratory.
Sherlock Holmes himself might have been puzzled.
The stuff, it seems, was taken by a trained rat,
sent up a drain-pipe !
The Oldest Inhabitant:—
As Akenehi says (B. 2/3/T1), the red tiles of North
Sydney won’t need to blush for the family of Colonel
Ryrie, even if their owners do drop him—a square peg—
into the round hole of a Parliamentary seat, and subse-
quently blush for his knowledge of politics. Stewart Ryrie,
of Sydney andArnprior, Braid wood, was one of 12 brothers,
Scotch. He was in the Commissariat service—looked
after the tucker for the army—and served in the Penin-
sular and at Waterloo. At Waterloo he received from
General Picton the field-glass he(the General) used during
the battle. (Mem. : Picton was killed.) Stewart Ryrie
came to Sydney in 1825 as Deputy Commissary-General.
He married twice. His first wife was Anne Stewart,
sister of General Stewart, who was Acting-Governor for
18 days in Dee., 1825. General Stewart lived at Mount
Pleasant, near Bathurst, and is buried under some
tons of monumental masonry there. The second
wife was Isabella, third daughter of John Cas-
sels, of Arnprior, Scotland. She was the sister of
his daughter-in-law. Among the children of this
second marriage was Alexander Ryrie, M.L.C. ; the
latter married a daughter of Captain Alured Tasker
Faunce, who settled in N. S. Wales in 1832. The candi-
date for North Sydney, Colonel Granville De Laune
Ryrie, is the son of this Alexander Ryrie.
A few years ago, Benjamin and Mary
brought their long hair and gold teeth to Australia.
They were special agents of the Almighty, and
their particular purpose waB to collect a band of
zealots to follow them into an elysium near
Chicago. There, according to Benjamin, people
enjoyed an eternal existence freed from material
worries and mundane cares. Between them, the
couple actually secured about 80 adherents,
who gave up their trades and j*bs for the joys
of an exquisite immortality. Arrived at the
selection, however, they found that it was rather
spoilt by a primitive system of drainage. More-
over, they discovered that the boss crank was a
tyrant, with a sordid love of riches, and a despotic
control over the £6OOO he had got from the “con-
verts.” He exhorted them to starve their passions
by subsisting on potatoes and haricot beans, and
eschew marriage ; but, as regards himself, being
already, no doubt, sufficiently chastened, lie put
fine clothes on his back and better dinners in his
stomach. Finally, there was a revolt of the least-
deluded, and several have now left the tents of
Benjamin and the footstool of Mary; and the
whole beautiful piece of humbug is in danger of
collapse.
Some March birthdays :—Philip Fysh, 76
on the Ist; Edward Dyson, 46 on the 4th ; Sur-
veyor-General Strawbridge (S.A.), 68, and
General-Manager Russell French (Bank of
N.S.W.), 64 on the sth; Oscar Seppelt (S.A.),
proprietor of the biggest winery in Australasia,
60, and Government Botanist Barley (Q.), 84 on
the Bth; Artist Tom Roberts, 55 on the 9th ;
Judge Homburg (S.A.), 63 on the 10th ; Much-
Travelled R. S. Smythe, on the 13th ; Rupert
Clarke, 46 on the 16th ; Clem Hill, 34 on the 18th ;
Admiral Bosanquet, 68 on the 22nd; Bishop
Anderson (Riverina), 52 on the 24th; Professor
Mitchell (S.A.), 50, George Giffen, 50, and Mrs.
Campbell Praed, 60 on the 27th ; Col. R. E. Roth,
53, and Professor Tucker, 52 on the 29th.
The Denman who achieved a peerage, and
thus made it possible, as things are, for his grand-
son to become G.-G. of the Commonwealth, was
Brougham’s colleague in the defence of Queen
Charlotte, when that Royal blackguard, the fourth
George, tried to divorce her. George abandoned
the illiterate woman when the first child was born.
As soon as he got formally to the Throne, 24
years afterwards, divorce proceedings were begun
in the House of Lords. Brougham and Den-
man no doubt had a weak fool for a client;
but their defence was so brilliant that the
business was dropped. The lady had previously
been shut out from Westminster at the
Coronation ; and the story is that the blow killed
her. Anyhow, she was dead within a month.
There was, by the way, a rather sensational and
more successful divorce matter in the Denman
family itself—in the second generation.
Sir John M. P. Fuller, the new Governor
of Vic., is the first “ moon-raker,” or Wiltshire-
man, to get into an Australian Government House
as lord thereof. The Fuller family has been
associated with West Wilts for a long time, and,
thanks to a large income, partly derived from
brewery shares, numerous members have taken a
prominent position in most matters. Sir John’s
father, G. P., was M.P. for the division for several
terms, though he was more at home driving a
coach-and-six than in the House. Son John has
had at least two curious election experiences.
One was when he unsuccessfully fought North-
West Wilts against his bosom friend. Sir John
Diekson-Poynder. The two candidates went
about arm-in-arm, sometimes speaking after each
other at meetings. The second was when he re-
won West Wilts for the Liberals. He had married
Miss Phipps, a charming Wiltshire lady—she
being, as he said, a worse Radical than he was—
whose father was an old Tory and chairman of the
Tory party association. The old man did his
best, by canvassing and speaking against him, to
defeat his son-in-law. Fuller, was deliberately
educated for a political a fair speaker,
though no orator, is of the jolly rather than the
serious type, has plenty of common-sense, and in
his county was regarded as strongly democratic.
L. McCLELLAND,
Victoria’s newest Railway Commissioner.
When E. W. O’Sullivan first passed out,
the N.S.W. unions tumbled over one another in
their desire to do something to perpetuate his
memory. A committee was formed to raise
funds ; but big strikes supervened, and the com-
mittee raised only a little over a hundred pounds.
It is, however, proposed that a new wing to be
built at the Trades Hall shall be called “ The
O’Sullivan,” and a statue of the departed en-
thusiast placed in the vestibule. He earned the
honor ; for, with all his financial faults, O’Sullivan
was a generous man to Unionism. In fact, about
the only good thing he was not generous to was
himself.
THE ONLY SOLDIER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Strange to say, in this very matter whereon Mr. Con-
roy attacks them the women have proved their prefer-
ence for the fighting man. Whom did they select
amongst the list of a dozen aspirants, including an ex-
State Minister, an ex-senator and other distinguished
politicians? Why, the only soldier amongst them,
Colonel Ryrie.— Argus (2S/S/'ll.)
To meet Colonel Ryrie.—The Mayoress of North Syd-
ney requests the pleasure of your presence at the Town
Hall on Friday, March 3, at 3 o’clock. R.S.V.P.
The “ Lib’ral ” from his feather-bed springs up to face
the foe,
While swarms of eager women watch their lovely
soldier go
Into the tea-fight. Strong his arm to pass fresh buns
around
When perfect-lady leaguers thump high heels upon the
ground.
No matter what the risks may be,
With all a curate’s ardor, see
The Liberal from his feather-bed spring up to hand the
tea 1
No feather-bed has power to hold the fighting Colonel
back
When Duty calls him plainly tj get busy on the track
Which leads ahead to glory, per the tea-pot and the host
Of cream-puff girls who think that he will Fisher spread
on toast;
Hail him, the fighter in the van,
Rushing around with tea, to fan
The flame of parlor wrath ! Pour on, courageous soldier-
man !
There is no ease in feathers with plain Duty calling loud
For fighting-men to down the bold, blood-lusting Labor
crowd !
Who will come forward bravely, with his feather-bed
forgot,
And aim old tarts with martial skill at all the Labor lot?
Here is the man ! Oh, see him take
The standard up for Duty's sake
And gallop into battle, armed with loads of tea and cake !
VICTORIA.
FRANK HENTY.


1 1
I
r
/ ,
1
$
f V r
m
m
W:
-. •%
ri-i
i
w
rMi
m
m
I
1
»
<w
■S~
/V
ill
m
“The Austral.”
There is nothing better. It is the utmost
development of our experience, extending
down the years since 1868. We quote 635.,
705., 755. machine made, or 845., 905., 955.,
105 s. hand made, and, on receipt of a post-
card, will send you full range of patterns
with self-measurement forms.
Gowing Bros.,
Pioneer Distributors of Australian Goods,
486, 488, 490 George Street; and
7,9, 11, 13, 15 and 17 Royal
Arcade, Sydney.


As a refreshing and blood-cleansing drink
for the hot weather, take “Montserrat” Lime
Juice; but be sure it’s the genuine “Mont-
»*
SERRAT.'
MATCH Cherry Blossom Boot
Polish with any other you
know of, and you’ll find that it
will win the test easil}-. Wet
weather or fine makes no differ-
ence to this superb paste—it
never fails to score, no matter
how extreme the conditions.
Cherry Blossom comes in Black
and Tan at 3d. and 6d. per tin—
the largest on the market at the
price, and the best at any price,
us if you have any difficulty in securing- supplies.
Managing Agents for Australia:
SWIFT & COMPANY, 32 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
TRIED IT ON THE HORSE.
“When driving: from Tamworth to Bowling
Alley Point, one of my horses took bad with
gripes and got down kicking and struggling,”
say's Mr. Sam L. Pyrke, of Bowling Alley Point,
N.S.W. “Those who passed me considered the
horse would die. As I always carry Chamberlain’s
Colic, Cholera and Diarrhoea Remedy for my
own use in case of emergency, I put a whole
bottle of it in half a pint of water and gave it to
the horse. In less than a quarter of an hour he
was up and started to feed. It is Chamberlain’s
Colic, Cholera and Diarrhoea Remedy that I have
to thank for saving me a good horse.”*
Aching Back,
The bane alike of the housewife and of the
working man. In some cases every movement of
the body is accompanied by a sharp, stabbing pain
in the small of the back ; and in others the pain
is dull and continuous. . These are symptoms of
kidney disease. Arrest it 3 progress by using Dr.
Sheldon’s Gin Pills, which will act in a surpris-
ingly prompt manner. Price Is. 6d. and 2s. 6d.*
Nagging Neuralgia.
+
This Woman Spent Weeks in
Agony Until She Tried the
Tonic Treatment,
Many who are tortured with neuralgia will
read with interest the statement of Mrs. J.
Adcock, of Bunburv, W.A., who was cured of a
very severe case by Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills.
Her experience is only one of many, as these pills
have cured a host of cases, and those who have
used them for neuralgia have gone on sound
medical lines. Neuralgia is a nervous disorder,
and experience has proved that there is no better
nerve tonic than Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills. Mrs.
Adcock, whose husband has a store on Whites
Road, lives at the corner of Railway Parade and
Carey Road. ' She stated :
“ We were living in Derby, and the climate there
affected my nerves and brought on neuralgia. I
suffered dreadfully for weeks, and in spite of all
the remedies I tried I could not find any relief.
The pain was present all the time. I could not
sleep or eat, and fell away in looks. I would try
applications of hot salt and hot bran, and anything
that I might get a little ease from. Every nerve
of my face gave me pain. It would throb up to
my temples and affect the back of my eyes. I
could not see to read or sew. At night I could
not sleep. I would rise and walk about quite
frantic. It was in cold weather and I dreaded to
go outside, the nagging, shooting pains always felt
worse, and I would often have to bandage my face
to avoid a chill. ■ I don’t know how I got through
the day’s duties, but they had to be done. I tried
many remedies all in vain, then I read in a news-
paper about Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills, and Mr.
Adcock got them forme out of ourstore. They grad-
ually toned up my system, and drove the neuralgic
pains away. I am always glad to recommend
this tonic, for I have never had an attack since,
my health remaining capital. I took three boxes
altogether.”
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are sold by chemists
and storekeepers, or. sent by mail, post paid on
receipt of price, 2s. 9d. per box, six boxes 15s. 3d.,
by the Dr. Williams Medicine Co. of Australasia,
Ltd., Sydney.*
%
<2
zmnm
£
It is essential
that a Truss
firs correctly—
for safety and
eomf ort. As
Specialists w e
ensure exact fit
in every case.
Our Special
Elastic Truss
gives perfect
safety and has
no irritating springs. DCNYCR BROS
Truss and Abdominal Belt Makers,
281 GEORGE ST. (opp. Hunter St.), SYDNEY ; and
cr. Swanston & Lonsdale Sts., Melbourne.
DENYER
Single 17 6;
Double 22/6
Call or Write.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The clay when the Labor party was com-
posed of men with corns on their hands has
passed—-if it ever prevailed. There were two
by-elections in Queensland the other day. One
Labor candidate was a clergyman ; the other a
tutor.
Bigjohn Forrest is no happier than he was
a month ago. His Bunbury seat in the local
Assembly was captured by a Laborite the other
day. Newton Moore, ex-Premier and now on his
way to the Agent-General’s office, had been sit-
ting in it lately.
The Brunswick (Vic.) Council has decided
to float a loan of £30,000. The example of various
State Governments is certain to spread, and this
is the first Victorian instance to date. At such
times as the present nothing is easier than to
float a loan ; but there are a number of easier
matters than repayment, no matter what the
times are. Such an idea as striking a higher rate
is too simple ; besides, it might make Brunswick
councillors unpopular.
W.A. Premier Wilson is in a curious fix.
After all the scheming to get the Redistribution
of Seats Bill through, some one has found a hole
in it. Outside Albany is Breaksea Island, with a
population of six ; and Breaksea has been left off
the new electoral map, wherefore the blessed
Con’stooshun is alleged to be shivering. But it
isn’t shivering half as much as Wilson, who sees
the great jerrymander in danger of being cap-
sized.
Grant, the new Minister for Public In-
struction in the North, is reported to have told
his Rockhampton (Q.) constituents that he “re-
luctantly accepted a portfolio.” It is time some-
body invented a fresh way of accepting a port-
folio. Will some politician please earn The
Bulletin’s gratitude by saying, “I accepted the
position of Minister with joyful alacrity, and
intend to hang on to it as long as ever I can ! ”
“At present any claimant under a State
law had the right of appeal to the Federal Court,
and no protest was made against this over-riding
of State jurisdiction or sovereignty. The Flinders-
lane merchant recovering a debt, or the Collins-
street stockbroker pursuing a claim, had a right
of appeal which nobody questioned ; but when a
Sunshine worker asked for the same power, then
the sovereign rights of the States were in danger!”
—Andrew Fisher , on the Industrial Referendum.
Prime Minister Fisher made a good point
when removing the “nationalisation of the drink
traffic” red herring from the referendum trail.
“ We have read,” said he, “that the whole tem-
perance section of the community is up in arms
against our proposals because they will give power
to nationalise the drink traffic. The States can
do so now, if they wish. Apparently the people
who say these things think the States can be
trusted better than a Government whose every
member is a teetotaler ! ”
A Victorian Wages Board decided recently
that certain bootmaking work, hitherto done by
men operatives at 545. per week, may in future be
done by women at 20s. It is one of many sound
reasons for voting “Yes” on the Referenda
questions. Neither Queensland nor N. S. Wales
permits cheaper labor in the boot industry.
Which means that the Murray State manufac-
turers, while acting in a legal manner, will get an
inequitable advantage over the manufacturers and
operatives of the other States until there is some
authority to bring the conditions into harmony.
Melbourne Argus is only an unmitigated
State Rights’ advocate when there isn’t any
authority more Tory than the State in view.
When it can see something more Tory, then
sacred State Rights are all humbug. Just now
the old paper is quite peevish because it suspects
every morning that the Murray Government con-
templates scooping up the tramways. The idea
of the Argus at the moment is that the running of
tramways is the sacred duty of municipalities.
The whole explanation is that the municipal coun-
cils are still Tory bodies, and so the Tory Argus
harks back to them. The “sacred rights,” in
short, always belong to the Toriest body.
The Argus, and Fatman in general, wept
crocodile’s tears over the Victorian ironworkers,
and pointed out to them that they were making a
clear loss in wages of £4972 per week. Fat
always weeps the same tears; but when, as in
this case, other employers lock their workmen
out, he quite forgets to bewail the folly of em-
ployers in scorning their bread and butter. In
such a case the employers “ make a momentary
sacrifice for the sake of an abiding principle” ; and
Fatman applauds his brother vigorously for it.
The probability is that Edward Tregear,
the recently-retired Secretary for Labor (Maori-
land), will shortly enter politics, and the side of
the fence on which he will be was made clear a
few days ago. Sowise :
He would like to say that he saw in the Labor move-
ment, the only hope for the majority of the men in this
world, whatever hope they might have of another. He
saw in the Labor movement that desire for the spread of
human helpfulness and friendship, a feeling without
which it would be impossible to raise the masses, and the
masses could not receive it without their bodies were
first well clothed and fed. They must remove the
drunkenness, the debauchery, dirt and disease before
they could make room for the higher ideals which, like
other property, was at present the possession of people
with palaces and motor-cars.
Tregear says that he is glad to be quit of his
official job, so that he can be of still more service to
the workers. Which makes the above-mentioned
probability more probable.
HIS VALENTINE.
Premier Denham, who spent a foolish,
futile fortnight battling in Rockhampton (Q.) to
save the meek Tory lambs from the ravening
wolves of Labor, made the usual remark after the
election that the Rockhampton result did not
indicate the state of politics in that town. Some-
how the remark always reminds The Bulletin
of the lady who told Ferguson, the Broken Hill
strike leader of ’92, after his arrest, that “stone
walls do not a prison make nor iron bars a cage.”
“No, madam,” said Ferguson, as he looked out
through the grating. “ Perhaps not. But I find
them a wonderfully effective substitute.”
At McCutcheon’s meeting in Melbourne,
according to the Age report: —
Mrs. Morton, of the Australian Women’s League, urged
the ladies to make sacrifices to secure men to vote against
the referenda questions. Women had great influence,
she said, her first convert having been made in the
Garden of Eden.
What does the lady mean ?
NO FAULT OF HIS.
THE AVIATOR: “Dash it all! And my
doctor told me to give up sea bathing!”
There is one point which can’t be driven
home too hard and too often—the Commonwealth
Government does not ask for an atom of power
which the State Government does not already
possess ; it does not ask for leave to do one single
thing which the State is not entitled to do already.
Thereupon the question arises, is Fisher to be
trusted less than McGowen ? Or (supposing the
Labor party to be thrown out, as no doubt it will
be some day) is Joe Cook the monster who is
going to produce the dreadful things which will
drive Spoof Smith to rebellion?
Elwood Mead, who went up to Swan Hill
the other day to see how his “ novices ” were get-
ting on, found one man, who had landed in Mel-
bourne last Christmas, already making £2 15s. a
week from butterfat. Besides this he has pigs
and poultry, and was busy ploughing when
the irrigationist looked in. Next to him, another
new chum was drawing £3 a week from the butter
factory, and a third £2 18s. Some of the families
are still living under canvas; but they realise that
tent life in Australia isn’t quite the same as tent
life in the Cold Land, and are bogging in hopefully.
The other night, when Deakin was burb-
ling on the referendum at Ballarat (Vie.), he im-
plied that the nationalisation of Australian rail-
ways would be a terrible indiscretion. A little
later in his oral fantasia, however, he produced
this stimulating statement
There is a certain aspect of railway management which
relates to defence,, and there Australian interests pro-
perly override every other interest.
Thus Alfred makes out the strongest plea for the
nationalisation that he bitterly dislikes. Which
again demonstrates the futility of refuting the
gentleman’s arguments. He refutes them himself.
The crowd which shrieks “No” to the
Referenda, being very hard pushed for argu-
ment, thinks it has a trump card in the Home
Rule gag. It asks the world at large to consider
the “ inconsistency ” of a party which advocates
Home Rule for Ireland and “seeks to destroy
the complete system of Home Rule in Australia.”
There is, of course, no analogy. The Australians
of Perth and of Sydney are considerably more
alike and have more interests in common than
the Englishmen of Devon and Durham ; yet there
is no proposal to make Devon and Durham sep-
arate States. But, on the other hand, the Irish-
man belongs to a subject race which has never
been assimilated, and his interests are not those
of England. Newcastle possibly has, in its re-
lation to Sydney, some analogy to the position of
Ireland in relation to England. Both places have
been sacrificed for the bloating of the other place ;
and if the people vote “Yes,” Newcastle will be
a step nearer to getting Home Rule for itself.
Justice Sim’s administration of the Maori-
land Arbitration Court isn’t unlikely to lead to
trouble. Recently the Otago Trades and Labor
Council Wrote to Minister for Labor Millar tell-
ing him that, unless something was done immedi-
ately, the unions might have to be advised to
adopt some other method of settling industrial
shindies :
If it is intended to mark time and allow things to drift,
there is likely to be an industrial upheaval such as Maori-
land has never previously known, during which thou-
sands of innocent people will be made to suffer. If you
will take a strong stand and say this state of things shall
not continue, we have no hesitation in saying the Con-
ciliation and Arbitration Act will be as acceptable to the
majority of the workers as it was in days gone by.
One of the leading M.L. newspapers, in referring
to a recent judgment, said : “It would not need
many such decisions to bring the whole system of
arbitration into disrepute.” Another remarked,
“The Arbitration Court is doing its best to defeat
the wise purpose of the Legislature.” Still
another : “ A few more decisions of this kind will
Strain the patience of the workers to the breaking
point.” Millar talks about amending the Act.
But the unions reply, “ It ain’t new law we want;
it’s new Judge.” And, by the look of things, new
Judge it has got to be.
An old passage in the Yic. Assembly
in the early "’!)o’s is recalled for the
benefit of Spoof Smith and Solemn Lee.
“Thank God for the sacred right of
revolution!” cried Jack Hancock. “And
thank God for the sacred right of hanging,”
replied Dunky Gillies.
The Age and Deakin have forgotten their
political differences, and have become the hap-
piest of friends again. The latter now compli-
ments the former by quoting from its columns,
and the former retaliates by describing his meet-
ings as “ enthusiastic.” Yet with all their love,
inspired by hostility to the Referendum, they
contradict one another in a reprehensible fashion.
For instance, Alfred observed the other day
It has remained for the present Government to render
ttie virtue of Referendum next to nothing, for they have
put together four separate clauses with five sub-clauses,
and while you should have at least five votes, you have
to give one “Yes” or “No.” Isay that the proposal is
monstrous.
So far from declaring the proposal “monstrous,”
the Age recently declared :
They (the four clauses) hinge upon one another, and to
a large extent are interdependent. To put thi ui in the
shape of four separate Referenda (for the purpose of
securing a “Yes” or “No” on each different question)
would complicate and embarrass what is in itself a simple
proposition.
It is most disconcerting to find the leaders of a
campaign quarrelling like this.
SCREAMS FROM CROW'S NEST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He foresaw that if the referendum was carried, and
the Labor party dominated ail the legislation of Australia
through a central Parliament, they would be as close up
to a rebellion as it was possible for any people to be. It
all pointed to revolution.— Solemn Lee at Crow’s Nest
(N.S.W.).
When they found Mr. Bruce Smith exhibiting a con-
dition almost of hysteria and talking about “political
buccaneers,” and Mr. Lee indulging in an excited fashion
in prognostications about “ revolutions’’—when they
found conditions such as that agitating all these ordi-
narily placid gentlemen, they could reckon something
was afoot in which they had an interest. (Laughter and
applause.)— J. C. Watson.
“ Caw ! Caw 1 ” said the elderly crow. “ Caw ! Caw ! ”
His manner was wild and his voice was raw.
“ I never have seen
The country so green !
Fanners no more on overdrafts lean !
Not a trace of drought,
And nowhere about
Is anything wanting its eyes picked out!
The country is prosperous, there’s no doubt!
From what 1 can see
There’s nothing for me ! ” . . .
“ I stnell revolution ! ” croaked Old Crow Lee.
“Caw! Caw!” screamed the solemn old crow, “Caw!
Caw !
There’s death for certain in Labor-made law !
Each orderly crow
Will very soon know
When up in blazes his tail feathers go !
Don’t linger in doubt,
For murder will out!
My nose tells me there is powder about!
There’s trouble in store for each crow who’s stout!
Our nests they will glow
And our blood will flow !
Labor is loose! ” yelled the terrified crow.
“Caw! Caw!” yelled the maddened old bird, “Caw!
Caw ! ”
Red visions of blood in his rage he saw.
“ Friends ! Listen to me •
Give ear to Crow Lee !
They’re going to rummage in ev’ry tree ?
Each jay and jackdaw,
His brood and his squaw,
Will all be subject to Federal law !
Look well, my friends, to your sticks and your straw !
I fear for the worst!
Our race is accurst!
I feel that something is ready to hurst! ”
“ Caw ! Caw ! ” yelled the crow on the tall, dead tree.
“ Observe us waiting for trouble, we three !
Smith, Deakin and I,
We flap and we cry,
And yell for our lives to the empty sky !
There’s rain in the east,
And every beast
Has acres of grass—but we want a feast!
But nobody seems to care in the least.
Don’t stir up the foes !
Why, afiy fool knows
That fighting and gibbets are bad for crows ! ”
“ Law ! Law ! ” croaked the trio of crows, “ Law ! Law !
The rats of the Caucus at red-tape gnaw !
Oh, let us be bound
By those in the ground !
Constitution-makers lie all around !
With reverent ‘ Caws ’
We honor their laws
And cling to our perch with determined claws !
If they cannot rule us—then blood and wars !
/teed the dead , who know,
Or the blood will flow,
Is the final word of the watchful crow ! ”
N.S.W.
E. FRANCIS.
BALLADE OF LOST SHACKS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Sydney’s State-run flats destroy the family life and
strain the marriage tie. The inmates, after having given
them a fair trial, are so disgusted with the result that
they openly express sorrow for the loss of the once so
bitterly contemned and abused private landlord of the
old days.— Sydney Evening News (15/2/’11) :
They long—the common people—for
The hovels which they used to know ;
They languish for those dear old homes,
Whose roofs and walls were burst and low.
From out their Socialistic flats
They gaze, with sorrow in their eyes,
And brood upon those lost delights—
The Shacks of Private Enterprise.
The dwelling which the State provides
Discourages the typhoid germ ;
Consumption may not flourish there,
Nor filth nor gloom for any term
However short; which causes grief,
And rage, and scorn, and shocked surprise,
To folks who’ve lived with Death, among
The Shacks of Private Enterprise.
The State flat lacks the stuffy yard
Abutting on the ruined lane,
The long-dead hound whose corpse obstructs
The vast and clamant open drain ;
Likewise the garbage he p wherein
A wealth of nameless Horror lies —
All of which luxuries pervade
The Shacks of Private Enterprise.
Envoi.
The Socialistic Tiger tears
At Ferry Co. and Sugar Trust;
Beneath his devastating claws
The Marriage Tie is rudely bust.
The landlord grabs his capital
And flees abroad with plaintive cries ,
The worker stays, and hungers for
The Shacks of Private Enterprise.
K.S.W.
HENRI SINOEMOINE.


THE WONDERFUL
an
■
Closed as an ordinary Rlano.
Open as a Player Piano.
The Player-Piano that is “ Different/ ’
We sell on the Easiest Possible Terms.
' Full value allowed for your ordinary Piano.
NICHOLSON 8 CO. LIMITED
SYDNEY, NEWCASTLE, ORANGE,
k TOOWOOMBA and WARWICK.
[ARDATH
LONDON
VIRGINIA
CIGARETTES
Whatever test is applied
to “ Winfred ” Cigarettes
proves them to be free
from all the causes which
make ordinary cigarettes
injurious. Manufactured
from scrupulously
selected, natural tobacco
leaf only, they are free
from all deleterious
matter and adulteration.
II
Types of
British Manhood.
THE MOTORIST
smokes “Winfred” Cigarettes
because he can get them wherever
he finds a high-class tobacconist.
10
6d.
1/-
Plain or Gold Tipped
Obtainable of all leading Tobac-
conists, stores, Clubs, Hotels,
&c„ throughout Australia.
Sole Manufacturers:
ARDATH TOBACCO CO.,
LONDON.
FARMER’S for
MOTOR Clothing.
FARMER'S have specialised in
Ready-to-Wear Motor Clothing.
Brains, time and energy have been
concentrated on producing the utmost
in quality, style and sterling value.
To-day Farmer's Stock of Motor Cloth-
ing is unequalled in the Commonwealth.
We quote instances: —
DUST COATS
READY-TO-WEAR.
In White Duck, Single-Breasted ... Price 15 6
In White Crash, Single-Breasted . . Price 17/6
In Brown Holland, Single-Breasted Price 14/6
In Brown Holland, Douhle-Breasted... Price 16/6
The materials for these coats are thoroughly shrunk, and will give plenty of hard wear.
Chauffeurs’ Uniforms
READY-TO-WEAR.
Double-Breasted Coat, and the Breeches are correctly cut to meet Leggings at the knee.
In Brown Tweed Price 55/- Suit.
In Blue Serge ... Price 55/- Suit.
In Myrtle Green Serge ... Price 60/- Suit.
Leather Leggings.
In Black or Tan, Puttee Prices 8/6, 13/6, 16/6 Pair.
In Black or Tan, Spring Prices 13/6, 15/6 Pair.
WRITE FOR OUR FULL CATALOGUE OF MEN’S WEAR.
FARMER & COMPANY Limited,
SYDNEY.
m-M
The Steady
White Light
The Famous/2ay& Lamp
There are Lamps that cost more, but there is no better
Lamp made at any price.
Constructed on Absolutely Scientific Principles.
The Rayo Lamp is made of Solid Brass throughout, with
handsome Nickel Finish. Suitable for any room in any house.
Every Dealer Everywhere.
If not at yours, write for descriptive Circular to
VACUUM OIL CO. PTY. LTD.
MELBOURNE
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
ADELAIDE
FREMANTLE
WELLINGTON
AUCKLAND
CHRISTCHURCH
DUNEDIN


m
\9>
h
J’ Abb
“Awake in the morning and
up with the lark” isn’t half as
good advice as have a ni;e cup
of tea brought to your bed, and
then snoogle down for half-an-
hour’s snooze before you tumble
out.
A freshly-made cup of R o b u r
so soon as you wake is the
height of luxuriousness. It
starts you Tight for the day, and
a good start is everything.
, CHARLES
HEIDSIECK
has the Royal Warrant of King
George V. for
CHAMPAGNE
World
Renowned.
Trade Mark.
STUHR'S
Finest Table Delicacies
Genuine Caviare.
Anchovies in Brine.
Peeled Shrimps.
Shrimps Extract.
Sold by all High-class Provision Dealers.
C. F. STUHR & CO., Hamburg.
English’Export Agent: W.Lovegrove, London,E.C.
QUALITY—BUCHANAN WHISKY
“BLACK & WHITE.”
A
WOMAN’S
LETTER
Stdnev, March 6, 1911.
Mr Dear Arini,—
So at last Lord Dudley really is retiring. For
about two years I have been regularly hearing, on
“absolutely unimpeachable authority,” that he
meant to return to England within a month.
When the grotesque libels in regard to him were
being circulated most busily, “well-informed”
people dashed about saying that he meant to flee
before the impending storm “this very week.”
I fancy they cherished a mental picture of
the G.-G. departing disguised as a coal-
heaver or something, on a tramp steamer.
A humorous feature in connection with the
official announcement of his departure is the
excited rush on the part of some of the news-
papers to mention that they foretold it all along.
So might Wragge take credit to himself when the
next drought arrives. There are prophecies which
simply must come off if one waits long enough.
The new man. Lord Denman, is a curious
appointment. Till a few years ago he was better
known as an accomplished steeplechase rider than
anything else. lam told by one who has met him
that he looks like a hoy of 25, and is an excellent
public speaker. He married the only daughter
of a millionaire.
The Joseph Wards, of M.L., and their daughter
leave Wellington to-day, and if the vessel makes
a good run they ought to be here next Friday
forenoon. If they don’t, the Women’s Patriotic
club will be what the London policeman said he
wasn’t when the Suffragette slapped his face —
perturbed. _ The ladies of Bull’s Chambers have
rushed out invitations to an afternoon At Home to
the two ladies Ward, the invitees having pro-
mised their presence by cable.
On the following Saturday afternoon the Presi-
dent of the M.L. Association, Mr. E. Owen Cox,
will be “At Home” at the A.B.C. Rooms, in
Pitt-street, to meet the M.L. knight and his con-
sort. These joy-bones (no, not jaw-bones) thrown
to Society during Lent are specially acceptable
because of the season. Society rises from its
ashes with alacrity to seize and gnaw them.
But the dinner to be given to the M.L. Premier
on Saturday night will bo the Feast Beautiful.
Tickets, 255. each ; Paris House catering ; diners
to choose their own wines: the banqueting hall
(St. James’s) to Tie transformed into a Maori
kianga, or village, with deer’s head, native mats,
and carvings from M.L. Tourist Bureau, and the
motto, in Maori, “He is the great link that
unites us,” glaring from an arch in front of the
platform.
“Sunda)',” remarks Montgomery, of the
Bureau, “the Prime Minister desires to observe
as a day of rest.” A very natural desire after
such a crowded Saturday. On Monday the visi-
tors depart Coronationwards.
Drift-words of the Hordern-Bingham wedding,
blown hitherward, tell mainly of the elegance and
distinction of Mrs. Hordern, the bridegroom’s
mother, as she appeared in a gathering where
good looks were nearly as numerous as the
wedding presents. Her gown “developed” (a
really good word that, and much in use in dress-
making houses of quality) in Sydney, was a cream
chiffon over pale mauve satin,"with special extras
in the way of silver embroidery. A loose coat of
the chiffon shpwed the lines of the wearer’s tall,
slender figure, and was trimmed with point de
gaze. Satin and feathers are mentioned in con-
nection with her hat, and diamonds and pearls
increased her face-value.
Thq importance of being Mary (or any of its
variants) is not appreciated by the Maries of this
State, It was a thin congress of mostly-thin
Maries that answered the Mayoress's call to the
Town Hall in connection with the Queen
Mary Coronation Gift Fund last week. City
organist Truman was pealing out the first
item ; of the usual Wednesday .afternoon’s
programme grave allegro moderate when
some 25 Maries (and variants thereof), look-
ing like delegates to a pessimists’ conference,
filed gravely—allegro moderate—into the Mayor-
ess’s rooms, sat down dispiritedly, and gazed
blankly at Mayoress Allen Taylor, Mrs. Severn
and civic aide-de-camp Layton. Mrs. Taylor and
Mr. Layton were the only persons in the room
who were not named Mary, Maria, Molly or May
(save, of course, a few press persons, who are
really not persons at all, only Intelligences).
Where was General Gordon? As the principal
Maria in this State, he should have been present.
General John Maria Gordon’s loyalty must have
white ants. Perhaps the Army is Unsound !
There is no ; enthusiasm about the Mari-gold
job. The N.S.W. Maries think their gold and
coppers might be better disbursed than in gifting
a lady who already has everything under Heaven
that money can buy. A souvenir from the Maries
of Queen Mary’s own circle of friends is a just and
reasonable suggestion. Lady Mary Trefusis/who
started the Mary mania, ought to be told to go
and get occupation.
Mrs. Taylor addressed the dismal company,
the third button of whose collective blouse was
divorced from its legal hole, and whose general
hat looked like an AH Night Vigil in the rain.
Mr. Layton then made a hurried reconnaissance,
found Miss Mary Sutter, and made her hon.
treasurer of the fund. Mrs. Severn, as already
mentioned, is hon. sec.
Concerning the foregoing: I cut the following
guff from a London daily :
“ Will you please accept my three stamps for our dear
Queen gift, as I have always taken a keen interest in all
her doings? She was married the same time as myself,
and all her children came the same time as mv own,’only
] have two girls and four hoys. Hoping Queen Mary will
have a long life and happiness, I remain, Maria .”
This letter, in simple spelling and handwriting, from a
woman in Warwickshire, was received by a member of
the executive committee which is arranging the Corona-
tion gift to the Queen from the women and girls of the
Empire named Mary, May, Marion, Marian, Maria, and
Marie. The contributions are coming in at a rate which
bids fair to establish the success of the pretty idea.
Isn’t the expression “simple spelling” the quin-
tessence of charity ?
The two Irish delegates who are due in .Tune,
should cause a flutter among the marriageable
maidens of the Commonwealth. Mr. Hazeldon
has been described by one who should know as
“the best-dressed man in the House of Com-
mons.” His photograph discloses a romantic-
looking youth with straight features and the
crisp, wavy hair beloved of romanticists like Vic-
toria Cross and Marie Corelli. He is a University
graduate, and the richest man in the Irish party.
Mr. Redmond, his colleague, is a son of John
Redmond, and is M.P. for North Tyrone. His
mother was one of the Daltons, of Orange.
When the made-in-Germuny bigamist comes
out of Wormwood Scrubbs, after doing his 10
years, he will be rather out of date for further
conquests. That is one comfort. His first mar-
riage was contracted 21 years ago; so he must
liave been old enough to be the father of the
youthful Ella Caspers, who was his last victim.
Speaking in the light of belated wisdom, musical
Sydney is rating the brother of the contralto for
not making inquiries about the creature who
called himself Ogilvie. But the young man only
reached London shortly before the wedding at
which he gave his sister away; and for that
matter how rarely do parents or guardians play
the sleuth-hound when an apparently desirable
suitor is in the leading r6le ! Men who possess the
bigamist habit usually have good, plausible man-
ners, and practice is supposed to make perfect.
THE HORDERN BRIDE.
Photo.—The Broothorn Studios, Melbourne.
BRIDEGROOM ANTHONY HORDERN.
Photo.—The Falk Studios, Sydney.
Nothing remains of the £3OO subscribed by the
Sydney publ c for Miss Caspers. Some months
ago the co-trustees of the fund, Dr. Stewart
Mackay and Mr. Southwell, hearing that her
engagement was “off,” and that she was in want
of money, cabled her, in two instalments, all that
remained of the money.
Miss Doreen Milner, whose marriage to Lord
Linlithgow, son of our first Gov.-Gen., occurs
about Easter time, has a stature that lifts itself
almost into the blue ether (whatever that may be).
She is a vertical six-feet-two. Much too tall for a
woman. Not once in a mandarin moon will you
see grace and over five-feet-seven go together.
However, Australians aren’t going to for-
bid the Hope-Milner banns because the
bride-elect has seven inches up above other
tall women. By the way, Miss Milner is a
first cousin of the Mrs. (Major) Sitwell, who was
in this State with her rather sick husband some
j-ears ago. Lord L. and his bride will come to
Australia soon after their marriage, so a London
paper says.
The W.S.P.U. will have hatpins ready for Miss
Muriel Matters when she gets back to London.
She has got engaged, so Adelaide asserts, panting
as it speaks with excitement, to one of the Pro-
fessors at the Conservatorium. During her stay
in Adelaide the good-looking Suffragette seemed
to adore and be adored, and He made the musical
setting to the recitation she gave.
Mrs. Dora B. Montefiore is back in Sydney
after some years’ sojourn in England. She is the
lady who, with the help of her maids, barricaded
her house near London when the income-tax
collector called, as a protest against the il-
liberalism of the Government in not granting
women the suffrage. Mrs. Montefiore is not
in political line with Mesdames Pankhurst, Law-
rence and the rest of the suffragettes who want
the franchise for women householders only—on
the same lines men have it. She asks for adult
suffrage, and was hon. sec. of the Adult Suffrage
Society. Her pamphlet on “The Position of
Women in the Socialist Movement” is weighted
with wisdom and rebellion.
Miss Alice Ireland, of Drummoyne (Sydney), was
safely bestowed upon Gordon Inglis, formerly of
the Sydney D.T. literary staff, but now of George
High Commissioner’s staff, at Mayfair (London),
recently. There was quite a gathering of Sydney
University men to give them.a good start down
the road that, as Stevenson said, “lies long and
dusty to the grave.” O. A. Ireland, who gave
his sister away, was one; G. V. Portus, a
Rhodes scholar, was another ; R. S. Waddy, also a
Rhodes scholar, was another ; and C. E. W. Bean,
the S. M. Herald’s young man in London, was
another. H. P. Cronshavv, the managing reverend,
was at Oxford with C. G. Wade and Primate
Wright, or they were at Oxford with him—l don’t
care which as long as I don’t have to bear part of
the recriminations —and the spaces were filled in
with Australians abroad, rice, Londoners at
home, confetti, Irish lace, breakfast at the Cri-
terion and more good wishes than could be packed
into the departing motor-car.
Another cherubic trousseau is on the mind of
the designers, and under the needles of the
workers. Miss Wall, of Randwick, will be the
wearer, and Dr. Dick, of the same suburb, is the
winner—of the bride-elect, of course.
I see the S. M. Herald has been bewailing the
plight of our Art Gallery, and, like the thor-
oughly consistent anti-Socialist sheet it is, has
been calling on the Government to “do some-
thing” in the matter. What can the Government
do except abolish the trustees, of whom, by the
way, the Herald’s “Mr. .Tames” is one? The
two pictures which he bought in Spain the other
day deserve to be led .briskly, to the auto-da-fe,
and there dealt with according to the Inquisition
methods of their country of origin. Of course,
the N.S.W. Gallery hasn’t the money to spend
that the Melbourne and Adelaide institutions
have. We possess no Felton or Elder Bequests,
for the reason that the wealthy N. S. Welshman
has not yet been born who considered his cash
well bequeathed for Art. But more than
enough subsidy money has been squandered in quite
recent years, on arrant trash, to buy many of
the pictures the Herald clamors for. The trouble
is our present trustees don’t understand that it is
desirable in the public interest that the Gallery
should have such pictures ; nor would some of
them appreciate the value of the works if they
fell over them in broad daylight.
Now is the time when the indent merchant
whom one encounters on the ferry-boat, and the
Gentleman One who pervades the matutinal
tram, talk heatedly about the curse of Labor
domination, and glancing, loweringly, from their
paper, cry that all who are not innately evil or
mad must vote “No” to the Referenda ques-
tions. Time and again have I essayed to dis-
cover from various prosperous males of my
acquaintance the inner meaning of the trouble. In
vain. Their demeanor under cross-examination
becomes absolutely shifty. Almost I have been
inclined to suspect that, to them, the whole
Referenda problem is an insoluble mystery. Any-
how, I beg to submit the following short cate-
chism, failure to satisfactorily answer which
should be held to disqualify daily-paper students
from dogmatising till after April 26 next: —
(1) What is the Excise Act (1906)?
(2) Give a brief summary of (a)C.J. Griffith’s decision in
regard to the New Protection scheme, and (6) of the dis-
sentient judgment of Isaacs (J.) on the same matter.
(3) State shortly, giving reasons, the time, if any, that
will elapse between an affirmative vote on the Referenda,
and an outbreak of revolution and bloodshed in N.S.W.,
as predicted by Mr. Bruce Smith M.P., Mr. bee anti
others.
(4) What is the meaning of a “ Common Rule for Aus-
tralia”? Do you disapprove of it? If so, why?
(5) Analyse the Trade and Commerce Clause. Mention
a few of its possibilities, (a) assuming that Federal
legislators all go raving mad ; ( b ) that they remain sane.
(6) Define “Section 65,” “robbery,” “tacking on,”
“spoliation bv the Commonwealth,” “Revolution,” and
“ right-thinking citizen.”
Ip my opinion, the harassed wife who dashes the
above at her aggressively “Liberal ” spouse, sud-
denly, and before he has had eight or nine hours
to get the questions up, will have him so
thoroughly discredited and cowed that he will be
a; bearable companion for years.
i The other day I picked up a newspaper and
noticed that “ Mr. Rupert Oarington ” aspired
to be a director of the Gas Company. Just that
ahd nothing more ; and yet it amounted to a whole
sfermon on the local investor’s blank indifference
to titles, family connections and such like things
which weigh heavily elsewhere. The aspirant is,
presumably, the old gentleman who married a
daughter of Mr. Horsfall, of Widgiewa, years ago,
aind is now settled in Sydney. He is a brother of
tjie festive Carrington who, in his hot youth,
governed N.S.W. for a space. He is colonel of
aj local volunteer regiment, and owns a pair of the
Ipngthiest and yellowest moustachios in the Com-
monwealth. Also, he went to the war and got a
H. 5.0., and was named Smith till 1880, when lie
qbtained a Royal license to call himself Caring-
tpn. All these things would be eagerly mentioned
liy one seeking a directorship in England ; but in
Australia they cut no ice.
! John Lane, the London publisher, has accepted
a novel by Mrs. Forsyth, of Dudley (N.S.W.),
qnd will put it on the Australian market shortly.
4 Peter of Sunteroy ” the volume is named, and it
deals with sporting folks here and abroad,
i Life is brighter by a charm since the kodak
ctame into the life of man and woman. There is a
kodak exhibition raging at Baker and Rouse’s, in
George-street. Providence in His mercy sent it
ho make a luminous hole in the greyness of Lent.
There are 248 specimens of His mercy. The first
is from the kodak of her Majesty the Queen
ilother, and the last from the snapper of Living-.
ston Hopkins. Between the Queen Mother and
“Hop’’there are a host of well-known and un-
known humanity ; but their work is awfully good.
Picked specimens all.
Who are the “two Sydney society belles” ad-
vertised by the Standard Theatre management as
making “ their first appearance on the stage in an
unclothed shadow dance” ? Also, is this another
result of the surf-bathing craze? There seems a
certain significance about the fact that the play-
house where this turn occurs notifies itself as
“ next to the Fire Brigade Station.”
Mrs. Short, the daughter of Mr. Griffin, a
Haberfield resident, who returns with her hus-
band to their adopted home in Alaska by the
Makura, bears the uncommon baptismal names of
Australia Zealandia Americania. Her father
named her first after the land he came from,
secondly for the land of her birth, and thirdly for
the continent to which he intended to migrate.
The girl has herself carried out her geographically
minded father’s intention. Burdened as she is
with the names of two continents and an 800-
miles-long island, heredity should count, and
there will surely be a little Alaska and a small
Klondyke in her family.
The Smiths are always doing something. There
have been so many of them since the time of their
common ancestor, Tubal Cain, that there must Vie
a good poll of striking Smiths. One Mr. Smith,
a tenor, lias carried off a singing scholarship at
the Adelaide Conservatorium. A Miss O’Dea, a
mezzo-soprano, annexed the other scholarship.
There were 28 competitors for the two bay-leaves,
but a third, an extra, was awarded to Miss Prim-
rose James. The three birds come out of the
aviary of Prof. Winsloe Hall. You may remem-
ber his wife, Georgina Delmar, singing hero in
opera. If you don’t recall her voice, you must
remember her eyes and her opals, or were they
turquoises?
AMacquarie-streetsurgeon was seen a few weeks
ago to dash forth from his house, holding liis tele-
plione account in one hand and the ’phone itself,
torn from the wall, intheother. Hehurled the Ar-
e into the gutter, muttered an incanta-
tion, put the bill in his pocket and re-housed
himself, looking like a man who had crowned a
day with a deed.
Mr. John Tighe Ryan, editor of the Catholic
Press, is going hence to be “amongst those we
noticed ” at the Coronation. His friends are
making him a presentation of something yellow
and sterling.
The Australian Destroyers will be here in a
little while. Mr. Talbot—you remember, tall hut
honest (he is 7ft. upwards), who was Calves pilot
star? He is getting up something to commemor-
ate the visit; but for the life of me I cannot re-
member what form the function is to take. Per-
haps the Destroyers are to be “ at home ” in the
water. Time will tell.
Mrs. Lachlan Beaton and her small son are
travelling Australia-wards, aboard the Mooltan.
Among the Moldavia passengers was Mrs.
T. H. Kelly, Sydney-bound, after a four-months’
tour of India.
Herewith a curtsey to the lion. secs, and other
organisers of the fete in aid of St. Vincent’s Hos-
pital. Close upon a thousand pounds will be
Chubbed.
Miss Justine Kong-Sihg, the clever miniaturist
who has exhibited several times with the Sydney
Societies, and who has been working in theLismore
district, has returned to Sydney, and taken up her
palette and brushes at 26 Hunter-street.
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI


«fe;^3v*as'ir' %
■om
Pi :
y
am
■
■fVff.
wm
m
w~»
•'
m
WM&
&
wmrn
m
m
l\2
-
mmmmm
IBHI
ii?
Iw
1 1
H X*
5S@
S&«s
fy
H*
>rs
ftfSßr
->■■■:•. ■- 1
r
>?
-t-Vr
: mn
5t «$$
V?
*?>
;rs.t
ffilf
H
llll;
u
■ Ha
Ulm rV|
m 21:
| !■« SHTri/." 'JeSlm'sJl
will
v
utl
Vw
s
1
1'
firtt
m
Him
t*}
!t:w
iiisi!
m
,• ./-v-r ,
Sfe®t
%
>*s
tiM
W&p-
■M
U>
'wSSfi&ft
—''tSdSsi*'* SfeS
-r7s; w
' V.
m
%us
m
.
aia fgral
■-r‘
K
v«
as
-sMnm
■* •••->«■
ICv,
' w P*jhrmc
sSS|
:* *
, VMW /v,,?<
mm
/»
Mg
Mi' <ZUy.:^:..^
VAC
if
asHSfe
4
JBSl!
smds
•iv gj
*
gmf
?>t
ii
i^ 7 V
m
m
-Jm.t *r m
tjjjM&s \ x } %
fmim/ >\i \ S.
r /m
HS&
a
/i
§&%&
mm
m
Ufa
feiSi
5. I
HHm:
y
#ss»
‘■''■i.'t&'i A v vp-
life
SI
w
WSSgOi
fr i ify * r~~r*r -
-.)V
kSS
iit
-Sssn 5 ,.-t ; ‘" j .,'.s’ : 'T
.; I .;~ I 111 .. I ' 1 _jl|jpn r~||~
sag
l#l-
y.X'V
m
sfri*
*' -rJ.
m
SSar
«
I^l
: fe-3
ir
m
m
H
MSS 'j
>,'■ iii!
.©jySjj
«K*
M
m
mmmmsm.
mimmmm
<
mm
w
Hi?*
Wm
588
■>7; v :
■Si
#i/H
'MmM
vr,A
H’-
m.
m
m
S«
m
M t>
rvi
»g
COBRA FLOOR POLISH is as
good as COBRA BOOT POLISH.
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Polishes the
Floorcloth, too,
Till you say,
For goodness sake
It’s like walking
On a lake I ”
Cobra Polish
Always use
For the floorcloth,
Boots and shoes ;
And this maxim
Think upon :
Chunder puts the
Polish on ! ”


THANKS FOR PUBLISHING HAIR
FORMULA.
Remarkable Results Described by Reader.
Dear Editor, —I want to thank you for the
remarkable results I have secured by using the
hair formula which appeared in a recent issue of
your valued paper. As directed, I went to my
chemist and had him put up 3oz. Bay Rum, loz.
Lavona de Composee, and dram Menthol Crys-
tals. He told me- that this preparation was un-
equalled for hair and scalp troubles, but, I did. not
look for the astonishing- benefits which followed.
For a long time I had been troubled with dandruff
and falling hair, and my hair had become so thin
and lifeless that I feared I would become com-
pletely bald. I applied the tonic twice a day,
rubbingdt ipto the-scalp with the finger tips, and
yont can imagine my delight when at the end of the
third! day II found that the dandruff and scalp
itching had completely disappeared ; within two
weeks the falling out had entirely ceased, and now
at- the end of eight weeks the thin places are
covered with a thick growth of new hair nearly
six inches long. For the benefit of others who
suffer as I once suffered I would suggest that you
publish the formula again.
The preparation was also used by my husband,
who was not only delighted with its refreshing and
invigorating effect on the scalp, but says “it is the
best hair tonic he has ever used.”
Gratefully yours,
TINA H. PRATT.
NOTE. —The formula mentioned in the above
letter was published some time ago. Readers are
cautioned to avoid applying where hair is not
desired*
Are
Ygu
If
y
oUNLOp
MOTOR
IYRK
r
If not-try them!
They are now easily
the best wearing Tyfe
on the market, their
QUALITY and their
CONSTRUCTION en-
suring a bigger mileage
than any other Tyre.
« M *
Save money and trouble
by using “ Dunlops.”
mm*
DUNLOP RUBBER CO . All jut— ft
DON'T THROW AWAY
YOUR WORN OUT
WRINGER ROLLERS!
We re-rubber
them -
Better than
when new.
\ mm
?S\ f 1 %
\ -■ n
X
Otfc ,
V,. ' -
j-K
_
[THE DUNLOP RUBBER CO.l
will re-rubber your worn-out
Wringer Rollers and return
without delay, at following prices
(excluding carriage): —lO xlf in.,
4/- ea.; 11 x If in., 4^6ea.; 12 x
If in., 5/- ea.; 14 x If in., 6/- ea.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO., Melbourne. Sydney, Perth.
Adelaide. Brisbane. Christchurch, Wellington, N.Z.
HAYWARD’S
Costumes 8 Riding Habits
are Known All Over Australia.
WRITE OR CALL FOR
CATALOGUE OF NEW FASHIONS,
323 George Street, Sydney
Opp.
Paling’s.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, March 6, 1911.
My Dear Yarrie,—
The opening of the Autumn meeting at Flem-
ington on Saturday was a success from the social
point of view ; but the business-like racegoers,
who don’t care a dump for fashionable clothes or
the beings inside them, had a dismal time, for the
favorites were laid low with ghastly regularity.
“Back royalty” would have been a profitable
motto, had the army of baffled punters only known
it. Queen o’ Scots made the big win of the day ;
Royal Fleet was the only favorite to get safely
home ; and Comedy King, after a hard gallop,
beat Trafalgar by a length.
Afterarather soggy summering, Fashion crisped
up at the Newmarket. The vice-regal box was
packed with interesting clothing. Both G.-G.
Dudley and Gov. Carmichael were in grey sac
suits, and, like the aides, wore white gardenias in
their buttonholes. The Countess wore butter-
colored lace bows in a deep cream hat. The
Duchess of Bedford wore some pearls and her own
wrinkles. It is quite a pleasure to see an old lady
wearing her wrinkles in these days of massage and
beauty parlors. Her hat was English—and
dowdy. The terms are synonymous when ap-
plied to hats. The English representatives always
brush up in the matter of headgear after a vice-
regal term in Australia ; it seems to do them
nearly as much good as a visit to Paris. The
Carmichael lady reared an excellently groomed
and hatted head from the depths of the box.
Mrs. Tony Hordern, whose wedding was the
event of last week, wore her bridesmaids’ white
and Royal blue in the box, and showed a dazzling
complexion. Festive sky-blue plumes waved
from another exquisite coiffure in the plush
seats. Beatrice Madden wore roses in her hat.
Lord Dick Nevill shone for one of his last few
appearances before his departure. He will be
missed from our little social round. The pair of
Governors went away before the last race, and
left the women folk to gossip alone. Splendid
creatures in livery dashed about with suit cases
and the leather cages of the stove-pipe hats, and a
little later the great men disappeared into their
motors in Inverness capes.
The Gaud Mayor and his Mayoress, who may
soon be Lady Davey, promenaded the lawn. . She
wore a coat of chain-mail woven from cut jet, and
black plumes waved bravely from her helmet.
Mrs. Jim Purves, in mourning black, drifted out
for her first race meeting. She appeared to be
very proud of her newly-admitted barrister hus-
band. Doctor Stawell accompanied a lady who
was hidden completely beneath a monoplane hat
with propellers of mole-colored choux.
Some anxious fashion-platers wore the new
Laplander hat, which concoction was invented
in honor of either Peary or Cook (I forget which).
It has a tight band of suede round the head,
smothering ears and hair and almost quenching
the eyes; from this band a quantity of silk flops
back in the lop-sided craze of the moment like a
very drunk Tam-o’-Shanter. Those girls must
have been almost stifled, for the spectators in the
stand, though garbed mostly in light frocks, were
briskly fanning themselves all the afternoon.
A smart little tea party happened after the
Newmarket at the Grand Hotel. Mrs. Geoffrey
Syme was the hostess; she is a small brunette,
and her frock was the color of iced rock-
melon served with sherry. When she appeared
on the lawn she unfurled a parasol that was
like the palanquin roof of an Oriental princess.
The new monster upside-down handle rose from
its middle, and it drooped into yards of white silk
fringe from blue and white silk embroideries.
One other purple awning of much fringe and
great acreage paled into insignificance before it.
Mrs. Syme’s sister, Miss Greta Garnett, who
helped at the little party, wore a Marcos Stone
dress covered with pale pink bows.
The Women’s Hospital is spreading its new
wing for the further shelter of the sick. Mrs. ex-
Mayoress Burston laid the foundation-stone. She
was one of the chief workers fov the bazaar that
dug up the funds last year. The addition is to
consist of a new infirmary and a septic ward. So
many people were interested in the ceremony that
it was a crowded function. A drove of kind-
hearted and feather-hatted dames crushed their
fine dresses as recklessly as. if it were a
Cup meeting. But, in spite of all their
crowding, the speeches from the mere men
orators could not be heard ;. the fine rounded
periods drifted overhead, and dropped in ir-
ritating scraps on to the close-packed listeners.
Archbishop Clarke, during his turn, spoke of the
children having the advantage of the institution’s
care for the first two years of their lives. “Non-
sense!” exclaimed an ex-committee woman.
“ Two years! Why, we couldi not afford to keep
them two months! Too many other mothers
coming along and demanding oar care. Twelve
days is the average time we> keep, the babies, if
the poor little mites are in good, howling health.”
Premier Murray and Gaud Mayor Davey also
lauded the work done by this hospital. In fact,
it has so much, to doi that, in. spite of the thou-
sands that women-workers have-collected for it, it
started the year £2ooo' in. debt.
The last will and testament of the late Malcolm
McEaeharn was dragged into an English law
court lately on a question of “ interpretation.”
Poor, sick Malcolm was evidently much troubled
about the last will which he signed seven months
before his death. He hitched two codicils to it on
the day of signature, and two more codicils after-
wards. Daughter Mary’s legacy was originally
weighted with certain conditions re her matri-
monial hopes; but these were amended on a codicil.
The question of interpretation turned on a matter
of blanks. These were left for the testator to fill
in; but he ignored one of them—by design or
accident—and the unfilled blank was of vast im-
portance to the widow. As the will stands, she
inherits the whole of her husband’s Australian
estate, amounting to about £250,000, as well as a
part of the English estate, which is equally corpu-
lent. The trustees suggested to the Court that
Malcolm meant the two estates to be “ pooled,”
more or less. The learned Judge, however,
decided there was no evidence before the Court to
indicate that the dying man had not intended his
wife to be an enormously wealthy relict. Mrs.
McEaeharn, as all Australia knows, was an heiress
‘‘on her own”—one of the daughters of J. B.
Watson, the Bendigo millionaire. Another
daughter was widowed the other day, when
cricketer “Billy ” Murdoch lost his wicket.
The Alfred Hospital Fair is almost ready for
launching. A bridge party in aid of it happens
at Cliveden on March 14. The tickets, which are
a humble half-crown apiece, are obtainable from
the Mayoress or at Allan’s. Charitably-inclined
folk will pay in their winnings, if they happen to
accumulate any. Work competitions are raging,
and the products will be sold at the Fair.
From an ex-Alfred nurse :
Oh yes ! we are going to have a horse-raffle too for the
Alfred bazaar. A well-known Melbourne undertaker has
presented the P’ran stall with a pony. I don’t know his
idea ; perhaps he thinks one good turn deserves another.
March 1 was St. David’s Day; so the Welsh
section chartered a steamer and went down the
bay with the Prince of Wales feathers fluttering
in the salt breeze. The jolly voyagers sang all
the way there and back ; also the Welsh language
raged fore and aft. This year, the proceedings
were extra-joyous on account of the new Prince,
whose investiture is to be a feature of the forth-
coming Coronation whirl. His health was drunk
many times with strange and baffling toasts. The
Russian language is considered one of the most an-
gular, and therefore deadly for purposes of assault;
but consider the barbed-wire entanglement of
syllables which surrounds the rampant gryphon
crest: “ Y Ddraic coch a ddyry cyehwyn.”
The Beauty Competition which has been hap-
pening on the screen at West’s Pictures these last
two weeks was, of course, preceded by a private
gathering of the rival goddesses. The originals
of about 20 selected photos, were summoned to
West’s Building on a Friday afternoon, in order
that Mr. Lyall, the operator, might run the
camera over them. It was as nearly an informal
gathering as could be, and with one or two excep-
tions, the girls (who ranged from very young to
decidedly older) soon forgot to feel nervous.
“Hats off” was an absolute command; but
“hair down” was optional with the sitters. One
by one they posed on a revolving pedestal, and
the photographer “took” them from back to
front, whilst they simpered gently over a bunch
of flowers and toyed with a fan. They mostly got
through the ordeal without a tremble. One jaunty
spinster, who had evidently been filmed before,
scored a point by throwing flowers and kisses to
the audience she was picturing in her mind ; but
one of the prettiest candidates made the foolish
mistake.of peering languorously into space, under
the impression that she was doing deadly work
with her eyes. The voting at the end of last week
was in favor of No. 24 for first prize. No. 24 is
said to be a Williamsonian stage girl, handsome
in fact, and picturesque in her method of posing
for the camera. No. 12, the second in the running,
is also an advanced student in the art of looking
pretty.
The new military regulation relating to the
retirement of senior officers is causing a stir. The
way that ages are mentioned in the morning paper
is enough to give the hardiest old campaigners
twinge. Some of our defenders must know now
how a woman feels when she is presented with a
census paper and told to put down in black and
white how long she has been on earth. In 1921,
quite.’ a lot of people will escape the ordeal by
taking to the air for a day or two. Colonel
Ballenger, whatever his years, is pretty nearly as
youthful as his two little daughters who have just
reached the hair-up stage. They are good horse-
women, ride astride, and are their father’s most
attached A.D.C.’s.
Miss Essie Perrin, who is in England, and Mr.
Fred. Kcrouse, who is in Melbourne, are to be
married soon. As there is a long, weary journey
between them, they intend to divide the distance
and get the knot tied in Ceylon. The prospective
bridegroom will go to the Island of Tea and wait
for his dainty bride. Miss Perrin will stay with
tea-planter Gordon and his wife. Mr. Gordon
will act the proud and heavy part of father, and
give the guest away. Afterwards Mrs. Essie-
Perrin-Kcrouse will become a fair Australian and
settle down in Melbourne. The bride-to-be has
just recovered from an attack of diphtheria.
Fred. Kcrouse haunted the cable office during the
anxious time, sending and receiving.answering
budgets about his lady’s progress.
Dr. George Cuscaden’s doctor son, W. J., has
asked Miss Beryl Eadie if she will; and the lady
will. She is a daughter of Dr. James Eadie, now
of Balaclava. Another medical engagement is
that of Dr. Shorney, of Adelaide, with Miss
Millicent Berry, daughter of Henry Berry, of
Kew.
Miss Charlotte Campbell Langtree, a twig of
the Langtrees of Toorak, is on the verge of matri-
mony. Her buttered toast in the days to come
will be-passed by a Major Milner, of the Royal
Irish Regiment,, who has relatives in “Who’s
Who.”
A grey-headed romance will shortly be sealed
at a suburban altar. The lady is Miss Eva Mary
Dent, daughter of Captain Dent, of this city,
and the man is Mr. J. M. Rylah. For many
years he conducted the higher arithmetic in the
counting-house of the Sargood people, and is both
a widower and a grandpapa ; but out of his books
he dug somewhere the secret of perpetual
juvenility. In manner and gait he is younger
than most men of 35, and his smile would make
a “flapper” even of a woman of 35.
Ex-newspaper man Beaumont Smith, nowadays
secretary to William Anderson, is to be married
in a couple of days. He is engaging to buy frocks
next summer for Miss Elsie Fleming, a tall, graceful
girl of almost Titian coloring. After the wedding-
the pair voyage to Europe.
Two items of gossip-interest re the Horderri-
Bingliam wedding. The fair bride, young as she-
is, has a year or two of advantage over the youth-
ful groom. And it is remarked with awe that the-
Sydney guests for the wedding were conveyed’ to
and from Melbourne in a special train.
Aviator Hammond during the week gave two
public shows of flying at Altona. Boats and
trains were “ laid on”; but the exhibitions hap-
pened at 5.30 in the mornings, which meant a
sweetly early start. The early birds who caught
the fly rave about the “opal tints of the
sunrise.” Hammond has done a good turn
for Nature by inducing these people to
get up early for once and look aloft.
He has accomplished some wonderfully good
flights in the calm, early morning; but, so far,
he’s “ afraid to come home in the dark or the
strong daylight either. Before the sun gets to
business is his time for racing trains, skating
along jagged stone walls, and darting seaward.
There is a hope in the Hammond heart that the
gilded youth of the town are being bitten with
the air play. The youngest of the Baillieux—one
of the members of the clan left behind in the
general exodus toward Coronation —was the first
Melbourne man to spend a fifty-pound note on a
flight as a passenger; and Philip Schuler, son of
Editor Schuler of the Age, also took a trip.
Soprano Mary Conly farewelled in Melbourne
Town Hall on Thursday to such good effect that
she was forced to come back for an encore good-
bye on Saturday night. Freddie Beard backed
up the “Inflammatus” with his choir and the
organ, and played the ballad piano accompani-
ments for the brilliant songstress as cap-
ably as he had guided the pale blue and
pink choir girls in the more imposing
items. Mendelssohn’s “Hear ye, Israel,”
beautifully sung, was a gem set in a fine pro-
gramme. Baritone Frederic Earp sang a song
composed by Frederic Beard—a delicately roman-
tic effort called “ Love’s Reflection.” Du Boulay
and his violin were added at the Saturday con-
cert, and Kerry thundered at the organ.
Mrs. Edwin Millar, who is one of the Coronation
jaunters, was nearly kept at home by a bad motor
accident, in which she was considerably cut and
bruised. However, she managed to get away on
the Malwa, and hopes that the long voyage will do
the necessary nerve-soothing. The shaken lady
took her young niece, Belle White, along with her
to the city of crowds.
Wilfred Beaver, who is captaining one of the
little expeditions that are in search of the missing
Staniforth Smith, is a Melbourne man. He used
to live in Brighton and on the Block, but is now
a Resident Magistrate in the Western Division of
Papua. He has been helping to look after our
Possession for seven years. Beaver and his
fellow searcher Ryan have taken the launch
Taaneera, which they will leave at Goaribari, and
make a dash inland behind Sir Arthur Gordon
range, following the lost party’s tracks as far as
possible. They are going to have a hard time, for
they will go as far as they can make their rations
stretch.
Ernest Clarke, the “ Lone Fisherman,” was
back at Melbourne in time to jaunt down to
Flemington and see his horse, Eyeglass, win a
race on Saturday. The grave, good-looking
bachelor, the despair alike of maids and widows,
had been away in Maoriland on his annual trout-
fishing expedition. Ernest is the complete
angler—the good-natured man who, because he
“ wouldn’t hurt a fly,” takes a fiendish delight in
landing the speckled fish which never sees a fly
without wanting to consume it.
It was whispered broadly that a harem skirt,
with a pretty actress within its discreet folds, was
to walk down Collins-street, from one big chiffon
store to another, in the most crowded hour of
Saturday morning. Awful cables about; the mob-
bing of English and Continental fashion-pioneers
were evidently too much for the lady’s nerves, for
she did not materialise. Now, I guess, she must
be grieving in secret over the £5O bet that Mrs.
Gossip gravely' asserted she was to rake in if she
dared.to do it.
An astounding story comes by cable from
Russian Turkestan about the eating by wolves of
all but two of a wedding party numbering 118.
The unreliable submarine thing asserts that the
last to be killed were the bride and bridegroom,
and that they were flung to the pack by the des-
perate pair of survivors. This is the second time
I’ve heard of the wedding party being also the
wedding breakfast. The other furiction happened
in the South Seas. But in that ease the relatives
of the bride and bridegroom did the swallowing.
The swallowed were a guileless group of specially-
invited guests from another island.
From “Rosna” of Adelaide:—
Her Ex. opened another bazaar last week.
Gawler had a race-meeting the other Saturday, and
hordes of city folk were there. A £2O dividend right at
the tail-end of the proceedings was the most exciting
circumstance of the day.
The T. E. Barr Smiths leave for Britain at the end of
the month.
The Agricultural Show has come again, and the Duke
and Duchess of Hayseed, their suite and their motor-
cars are crowding us mere modest citizens out of house
and hostel into the park lands. Sundry attractions have
been provided for the visitors. One evening there was a
prize-fight, at which, by the way, a perfect lady was alleged
to have attended, masquerading as her brother man, A
pressman declares he suspected the lady, taxed her with
it, and the confiding soul fell on his heck and confessed.
There is also Bilanderson’s “ The Chance of a Life-time.”
By the way, our Mary Aimlessness is mostly due to the
Backblocks aristocrat, who is now too affluent to let his
•daughters go to service. Country towns are even wor?e
off in the Mary Ann respect than the city. One good-
sized northern hamlet hasn’t a maid from end to end,
and only one washer-lady for the whole population.
The new little, blue little King’s Theatre opened on
Tuesday eve, and the popular “ Dandies,” transplanted
from the Exhibition Gardens, are to make melody there
till further notice. Its blue is of a restful shade, and the
[ square gallery and dress-circle are so constructed that
from the side seats you have a beautiful view of the ceil-
ing and your neighbor’s hattery. The present show is a
:gay and lightsome one, and the opening night was spread
with Tolleys, Bevans, Gordons, Buchanans, Wendts, and
the great Others-too-numerous-to-mention family.
The Barbarossa denuded S.A. of some more population
last week, among the wanderers being Miss Hay, daughter
■of the late Major Hay. Her mother was a Stirling, sister
of S’Lancelot, and tile damsel goeth to Britain to live with
some of the maternal relatives.
The women of the non-party political association have
taken in haiid the question of a memorial to the late good
Catherine Helen Spence, and a committee of weight and
intellect will shortly show the world that the question is
not going to be shelved, like some other memorials we
are too polite to mention. Suggestions to date are : (1)
To promote effective voting ; (2) to purchase the ground
and building for a kindergarten at Bowden ; (3) portrait
for the Art Galleryand (4) building to be erected for
women for use for political purposes. If Miss Spence’s
wishes or tastes are to have any bearing on the scheme,
number 3 can be struck out at one blow, for she wAs
eminently not' the woman to want her picture in any old
.gallery. Probably the effective voting scheme would be
the truest compliment to her memory, but we should
need a second Catherine Helen Spence to carry it
•through. And we haven’t many of them.
Kubelik, who advised the'copper-haired youngster,
Daisy Kennedy, to take her fiddle to Europe, has been
handing more compliments and advice to her in Vienna.
She played to him for an hour, and he returned the com-
pliment for a similar period. He says she has mastered
the Seveik method already, and concert experience
is her greatest need. He has also promised to use
his mighty word with managers for a London appearance
for the damsel. Daisy and an elder sister “batch”
together in the Austrian capital. The rent of their
rooms includes hot rolls and coffee every morning. By
the way, every Viennese wants to learn English, and
there are plenty of pupils for the student who wishes to
help finance herself in that expensive city. One Austra-
lian girl had a fierce-moustached young doctor-pupil, who
insisted on learning “ I bleed, thou bleedest,” “ I shall
kill,” “ We will dissect ” !
Those people who did not care to grapple with the
original French may now read “ Vers la Lumifere,” the
novel about Us, published last year by our citizeness,
Mrs. Marie Lion. George Robertson has just issued a
translation under the title of “ The Black Fearl,” illus-
trated with some goodly photographs and reproductions
of paintings by the author’s charming sister, Mrs. Mou-
chette. It is an interesting story, and the existence of
certain live South Australians among the characters
makes it doubly entertaining to Adelaide.
The Commonwealth Club, always kind to hungry
visitors, last week fed Mr. G. H. Knibbs, who manages
the Commonwealth’s arithmetic. He has come here to
take our census.
Sincerely yours,
JOHANNA.


r mid diry
tKe Trjen •pniYkorctal.
Would
rcy drir\K-dOsT^eppes*]ime- Juice: (orpiat^!
a
u-
\
n
Jr
rt
0
m
i
■c
a
v&%..
3r:
V_
S?
52?
C?
w
4
mnncWe
oil*;
tt/.
L
r
rO
SCHWEPPES’ LIME JUICE CORDIAL
Made solely from Montserrat Lime Fruit Juice, by Special Arrangement with the Proprietors of Montserrat.
SCHWEPPES’ LEMON SQUASH.
Made from Fresh Lemons. ■ »
Schweppes’ Mineral Waters and Pure Fruit Cordials are the Standard of Comparison throughout the World.
THEIR ANNUAL SALES EXCEED 200,000,000 BOTTLES. ‘
< . •**•** * S JT' ...
Purveyors by Special Appointment to His Majesty King* George V*


POSTAGE
On all These Beautiful
Silverware Goods.
YOUR ORDER WILL BE PROMPTLY AND PER-
SONALLY ATTENDED TO, CAREFULLY PACKED,
AND SATISFACTORILY RECEIVED.
A. SAUNDERS.
PICKLE JAR, Pure Silver-plated, Nickel Sil-
ver, A 1 Quality, Finest English Cut Glass,
85/-
A. SAUNDERS.
EGG FRAME ANE SPOONS, Pure Silver-Plated
Nickel Silver, A 1 Quality, Richly Fluted, Gilt
Lined Cups and Spoons. Embossed Base.
40/.
( ■''i - ‘
V M V V V V
& & X
■, ■; •
wv?
r
A. SAUNDERS.
HEART SALT CELLARS, Pure Silver Mount, and
Spoons, Fine Cut Glass Howls, in Silk Lined Case.
13/G.
A. SMINDERS.
CRUEI, SIX BOTTLE, Pure Silver-Plated, A 1
Quality, Costal Cut Glass Bottles, with Shield,
70/-
A. SAUNDERS.
DOUBL" PRESERVE DISH, Pure Silver-Plated
Nickel Silver. Solid Base. Fancy China Dishes.
12 /«.
Better Quality, 15/6.
1
■ (
A. SAUNDERS.
REVOLVING SOUP OR STEAK DISH, Pure Sil-
ver Plated, A 1 Quality, Handsomel" Engraved and
Embossed Handles and Feet.
i :jo/-
A. SAUNDERS.
CREAM JUG, Pure Sil-
ver-plated on Nickel
Silver, Hand Engraved,
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-plated,
SERVIETTE KING,
Richly Engraved, Satin
Finish,
21-
SPECIAL LINE.
A. SAUNDERS.
PRESERVE DISH, Pure Silver-
plated, Handsomely Decorated China
Dish, with Server,
5/6.
TE'tPOT, Pure Silver-plated, A 1 Quality,
Hand-engraved and Fluted, 30/’-
A. SAUNTERS.
BREAKFAST CRUET,
Pure Silver Plated Nickel
Silver, Crystal Glass
Bottles,
10/6.
A. SAUAUERS.
SUGAR SCUTTLE, Pure
Silver-plated, A 1 Quality,
Handsomely Hand Em-
bossed,
25/-
A. SAUNDERS.
CARD RECEIVER, Pure Silver-
Plated, A 1 Quality, Handsome
Floral Design.
15/6-
SPECIAL VALUE,
15/6.
SPECIAL VALUE,
15/e
A. SAUNDERS.
SUGAR AND CREAM STAND,
Pure Silver-plate Nickel Silver, A 1
Quality, Highly Burnished.
3 51-
WE SEND
CATALOGS
OF EACH
DEPART-
MENT,
POST
FREE,
ANYWHERE
MENTION
WHICH
ONE TS
REQUIRED
AVHEN
ORDERING.
A. SAUNDERS.
CAKE BASKET, Pure Silver-Plated
Burnished or Satin Finished, Either
Finish.
so/.
A. SAUNDERS.
SAUCE BOAT, Pure Silver-plated;
Silver, Richlv Embossed,
30/
Plain., 15. 20/.
Nickel
HONEY JAR and
SERVER, Silver-
plated Top, Crystal
Glass Jar,
A. SAUNDERS.
SUGAR BASIN, Pure
Silver-Plated Nickel Sil-
ver, Richly Embossed,
Gilt Lined.
30A
A. SAUNDERS.
HOT WATER .JUG,
Pure Silver - Plated,
Richly Engraved and
Fluted,
50/.
BREAD SERVER, Solid Silver, Richly En
graved and Embossed, in Silk-lined Case
Tin. long,. 20/-
BISCUIT BARREL,
Pure Silver - Plated
Mounts, Hand Painted
Floral China 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTER DISH, Pure Silves-
Plated Nickel Silver. A 1
Qualjtv, Cut Glass Dish. *
JH*/-
. v
A. SAUNDERS.
HOT WATER KETTLE and STAND, Pure
Silver-plated, A 1 Quality, Rustic Stand,
Richly Embossed,
40/-
A. SAUNDERS
SPECIMEN TUBE, Two-Branch
Pure Silver-Plated, Satin Finish,
12/0.
Daffodil Design,
Gilt Lined.
A. SAUNDERS.
JAM SPOON and BUTTER KNIFE, Pure Silver-
plated, Handsomely Engraved, in Silk-lined Case,
10/G
A. SAUNDERS.
FERN POT, Pure Silver-plated on White Metal,
Beautifully Embossed, 4£im High,
12/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
BREAKFAST PLATE COVER, Pure. Silver-plated,
Hand Engraved, Fern Design. Size, 8 inches.
30/
A. -SAUNDERS.
SALAD BOWL AND SERVERS, Fine Crystal Cut
Glass. Pure Silver-Plated Mounts.
50/.
JEWELLER.
\k maker a
}
SYDNEYS LEADING JEWELLER.
807.809;8H.8I5.8I5.8I7. GEORGE ST. (Opposite Railway Sration) SYDNEY.N.S.W.
) SILVERSMITH


%
npp-s£EEge&
£275 Prize Competition.
Amateur and Professional
Sections-
See details in the “Australasian Photo.
Review ” for February.
Develop in Daylight
with the Kodak Tank!
W H !.. spend hours and hours in a
stuffy dark room, when you can do
all the work in comfort—in daylight —any
time —anywhere—with the help of the
Kodak Tank ?
Compared with dirk-room development,
it is not only convenience against incon-
venience, but it is science against guess-
work.
The Kodak Daylight System of Tank
Development ensures absolute uniformity
of results, and a greater percentage of
perfect negatives than is possible by dark-
room methods. It saves time by enabling
you to develop a roll of film, or a dozen
plates, or flat films at once. It saves space,
as any one of the tank outfits can be stowed
handily in a corner of your bag, ready
for instant service on your holiday trips.
The prices of the Kodak Tanks are :
Brownie Box, 7s. 6d. ; Brownie Tank Developer, 14s. 6d. ; 3^4in. Kodak Tank Developer, £1 7s. 6d. ;
sm. Kodak Tank Developer, £1 10s. ; 7in. Kodak Tank Developer, £2 7s. 6d.
The prices of the Eastman Tanks for plates are:—
sin. x 4m. Eastman Plate Tanks, 15s. (takes also x size, and also postcard); sm. x 7in.
Eastman Plate Tank, £1 2s. 6d. (takes also x size).
The prices of the Premo Film Pack Tanks are :
No. 1, for 12 3/4in. x 2}4in., 16s. 6d. ; No. 2, for 12 x x 3or sm. x 4in.
films, £1 ; No. 3, for six 7m. x sin. films, £1 7s. 6d.
Call and we will demonstrate the Daylight System of Development to you free of charge.
Explanatory Booklet sent free upon request.
KODAK (Australasia) LTD.,
379 George St., Sydney. “ The Block,” 284 Collins St., Melbourne.
Incorporating Baker
& Rouse Prop. Ltd.,
37 Rundle St., Adelaide.
78-80 Queen St., Brisbane. Ruthven St., Toowoomba. Flinders St., Townsville. 346 Argent St., Broken Hill. 6 Mercer St., Wellington, N.Z.
mmm
m
io*-
R\V.
O/o
w?UinrMii«ST/«i
MALT
H ISKr
&STQ!i
(|r r»
The extensive flavor of Joshua's Australian Whisky
is imparted by age.
The Government puts the stamp of purity on every
bottle, thus safeguarding you.
OBTAINABLE AT-
THE CIVIL SERVICE STORES,
Pitt Street, Sydney.
And leading Wine and Spirit Merchants throughout the Commonwealth.
:WINCHESTER
m
X ...
mm§rnm
M
HJS&&
KB
£33
Hr*
KC
• •>;& :v a#### ;££s&•;•%'. •s*** V£vfcss!
■■■■ .•;*..•••'*•> aas>.sSx3s§«3^
'•i
>. tr
M
&}
»G
SHOTGUN CARTRIDGES
“NEW RIVAL”
It’s the way they shoot in a gun that marks the differ-
ence between “New Rival” shotgun cartridges and other
kinds. They always shoot, and shoot accurately and
uniformly. This is brought about by their method of
construction and loading, together with the extensive
experience of their manufacturers. The loading is all
done by automatic machinery, which exactly measures
the quantity of powder and shot, seats the wads
evenly and crimps the mouth of the cartridge firmly.
All guns shoot better with “ New Rival ” shotgun
cartridges. They are blue in color and have a corruga-
tion around the head to prevent its pulling off.
FOR SALE BY ALL DEALER
S .


HAIR PRESERVED
AND BEAUTIFIED
BY USING
Rowland’s
MACASSAR OIL.
It prevents baldness, eradicates scurf, is the best
dressing for ladies’ hair and for Children it is invalu-
able. Also in a Golden Colour for fair hair.
Sizes 3s. 6d., 75., 10s. 6d. Sold by Stores
Chemists, & A. Rowland & Sons, Hatton Garden,
London.
British and Colonial
Aeroplane Company Ltd.,
BUILDERS OF THE
Bristol BIPLANES
as used throughout Australia by
MR. J. J. HAMMOND,
and also by other World-Renowned Aviators.
Sole Agents for Great Britain and Colonies for
,heC ~ GNOME Engines.
THU RUSSIAN ARMY HAS ORDERED
EIGHT BRISTOL BIPLANES.
For Exhibitions and Particulars apply
SYDNEY E. SMITH, Manager,
Menzies’ Hotel, Melbourne.
HEARTBURN AND INDIGESTION.
Heartburn is a . symptom of indigestion, and
consists of a most distressing and gnawing pain in
the stomach; often with sour, acid belchings,
nausea and fainting. When the food is only par-
tially digested, it gives rise to an accumulation of
wind or gas generated from the excess of acidity
from the imperfectly digested-food. To overcome
this complaint you should, eat sparingly of plain
digestible foods, and take a course of Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills, which will strengthen the
digestive organs, and remove all acidity from the
stomach. These pills do not merely alleviate the
trouble, but get at the cause, and thus perma-
nently overcome the trouble.
Mr. E. B. Garland, “ Henbury,” Ruthven
Mr. Ifi. i>. Garland.
.(From a photo.)
Street, Waverley, Sydney,
states: “ For some consider-
able time I have suffered
greatly from-heartburn, in-
digestion and liver and
kidney troubles, and at times
the pain would be very great.
I was recommended by a
friend to try Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Rills. I started
on a course, and found on
continuing that they gave
me great relief, and although
I have had a return of the
symptoihs, a dose of Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills
never fails to put me right,
and restore me to health again. We always keep
a bottle handy in case of need. I have pleasure
in sending you this testimony, which you may use
as.you think proper. I have recommended Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills to many friends, who
now always use them.”*
ALE
&
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency tFeGWeYnoF-Gerieral:
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents—RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH. KALCOOELIE and COOICAMHE.
Brewery and Offices :
Dowling Street, REDFERN,SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
The final Test at Sydney was joyful in its weird
unexpectancy. On Friday the sticks were drawn with
Australia 281 for the loss of three wickets, and the crack
batsmen still in the pavilion. Saturday was bright; so
the cricket fiend rose early, cut his whiskers, sharpened
his pencil and “ records ” bump, and to the number of
24,321 rushed to Sydney Cricket Ground to revel in a
mammoth total. Never was greater promise of a bumper
score. But the bottom fell out, and instead of a bats-
men’s feast it was a bowlers’ banquet. The Australian
tally was 345 for five wickets when Schwarz seized the
leather. Then there was chaos. Trumper, Hill, Hans-
ford, Armstrong and Cotter fell before that wily bowler,
and the side ivas in a heap for 364—0n1y 19 runs after
Schwarz commenced his butchery. His figures oil the
day were five wickets for six runs, and on the innings six
for 47. Great was Schwarz !
But he must share his glory with wicketkeeper
Sherwell, who was cat-like in his agility. Schwarz
tempted Hill, Ransford and Cotter, and Sherwell did the
rest. No other visiting stumper has shown such excel-
lent work as Sherwell; up to the end of the first innings
of the last Test he had stumped nine and caught eight-
-17 of the SO Australian wickets which had fallen in the
Test campaign. Great is Sherwell!
Had the Africans been nearly as terrible with
the bat as with the ball, the game would have been won.
But they were not, and amidst the banter of an un-
generous crowd, the Springboks were butchered for 160.
The slayers were Armstrong (two for 17), Whitt.v (two for
33), and Hordern (four for 73). The day ended with
Africa hiding its face in a follow-on, with one wicket
down for 33 runs. But on Monday Africa was once more
serene. Zulch smashed the bowling for 150, and Faulkner
slashed it for 92, and altogether 368 were accumulated
for six wickets. It was a match of startling changes and
reversals of form that would drive a bookmaker crazy.
The end came on Tuesday, when Africa was dismissed for
401. In Australia’s second innings Macartney hit up a
brilliant 56, Bardsley went down before a straight one at
39, Ransford notched a duck ; and Trumper (74 not out)
and Kelleway (24 not out), with sundries (5), provided the
wherewithal for a seven wickets victory.
. * * ■* *
The previous week saw the Springboks put up a
stern fight against N.S.W. ; but just as Hannibal failed
to save Africa 2000 years ago, so Schwarz and Sherwell
failed to save it last week. N.S.W. scored 436 and 458—a
total of 894. Africa responded gamely, and smacked 408
and 442, and lost in an aggregate of 1744 runs by only 44.
Which was a mighty close thing.
What ruined Africa in that case was the sudden
awakening of Macartney. After scoring 15 or so in the
campaign, he suddenly burst, and, giving scarcely a
chance, smacked up 119 and 126. Now, how was Africa
or anyone else to know that Macartney would burst in
this amazing fashion? Even the most case-hardened
Mac-barracker was stricken dumb when his idol followed
up this exploit by making 137 in the final Test. It is
told that Macartney went to Alec Bannerman and got
himself polished up. Anyhow, the sudden bursting of
Macartney is the talk of the place.
The first All England cricket eleven had an ex-
perience which never came the way of another visiting
team—they were in a wreck. The trouble happened to
the City of Sydney, in almost the spot where the New
Guinea piled up the other day. All the cricketers
were got ashore safely.
* * * *
The benefit match to cricketer Warne, of
Carlton, Will commence on the Melbourne Cricket Ground
to-morrow (Friday), when Australia will meet the Rest.
* * * *
Up to the end of February J. W. McLaren,
the Fortitude Valley (Brisbane) fast bowler, had taken 50
wickets for 211 runs in first-grade cricket. And McLaren
doesn’t present sundries by the dpzen to the other side,
either.
• * * *
Cricket was mostly tedious in Melbourne last
Saturday. The bowler of the day was Maerow, of Rich-
mond, who took seven Northcotes for 32. No other
trundlers'were at all destructive, but some of the bats-
men were most offensive. In the moist heat McKenzie
made 192. for ’Roy against North, despite the fact that
the enemy tried nine different bowlers. Hartkopf, 166
not out for University again t Melbourne, carried, his score
to 183. Melbourne, in response, produced a person named
Johnstone, who whacked 111 not out. Warne and Hick,
of Carlton, showed a craze for scoring at Essendon’s ex-
pense —the former 95 and the latter 100 not out.
Much interest clung round the meeting be-
tween Healy and Longworth, at Sydney Domain
Baths on Saturday, in nhe 100yds. sprint. The memory
of the unexpected defeat of Healy by the youth from
Rose Bay was still fresh, and followers of the sport were
anxious to see how the risen and the rising stars would
compare in the shorter distance. They, apparently, had
made up their minds to save themselves for the final burst,
so the first 50 yards was not a cracker, and the lame ducks
in the race kept up easily enough. Not till 50 yards had
been covered did the stars really begin to,move, and then
there was a successionof spurts which brought them to
the 75yds., with Healy in front. With a magnificent
effort Longwortli ranged alongside Healy and let himself
go. He kicked up the water like a White Star liner, and
tore great holes in it with his arms. Healy was hard
pushed, but managed to win by a touch, and a miss was
as bad as a mile to Longwortli. There is no denying the
fact, though, that Healy is in the unpleasant position
of knowing that always alongside him is the
man who will, sooner or later, seize his king-
dom. Longworth is the rising star. It was a great
race at the finish, but the dilatory tactics of the first
half reduced its importance from a time point of view.
They took 60 seconds to cover the 100yds. Longworth said
afterwards that he is a long-distance man. But that is a
mistake. W.hen he has learned to use his great strength
in the short sprint he will be just as formidable over 100
as 880 yards..
As if to bear out his remark, the race for the
880yds. championship of the Ma State was a mere pro-
cession. Hardwick, the holder of the title, did not, of
course, defend it, being on the high seas. Longworth’s
only competitors were Cecil Healy and S. C. Wright, of
North Sydney. It wasn’t a race. Longworth led from
start to finish, and beat Healy by 50 yards. Healy passed
his licking on to Wright, whom he left. 40 yards behind.
Longworth’s time was lluiin. 31S-‘C., while Kieran’s
record is llmin. 2 l-ssec.
* * ■ * *
There is a Spring freshness about the sculling
world. Harry Pearce and Sydney Kemp will, it is.under-
stood, row for the championship of the world ; and if
Pearce can down Kemp, it is understood that "Richard will
be accommodated with his pet stake, £5OO, and requested
to show his title deeds to the championship. The idea of
a race between Pearce and Arnst is causing much talk,
and if it does come off, as everyone hopes it will, what a
day we shall have on the old Parramatta !
* * * *
However, Pearce is not the only Richmond in
the field. Among the swarm of athletes who will try
their luck in the Parramatta Hundred is one Thomas
Lawson, of Maoriland. He stands 6ft. 2in. in his socks,
weighs 13st. 31b., is apparently made of twisted steel and
toughened wire. He can walk, run, jump and fight with
the best of them, and he is in Sydney with a view to
clearing things up. If he sweeps the sculling board he
will attack Arnst. One way and another Richard has a
fairly strenuous time ahead of him.
■A * * *
The gentlemen who are running the Parramatta
Hundred are likely to find themselves swamped by suc-
cess. No less than 41 scullers are anxious to take part in
what is probably a record field, fleet, or flood, or what-
ever it may be. No less than five liandicappers are
struggling with the problem of arranging the allowances.
On the day of the final, March 26, there will be a display
of decorated motor-boats, and a race for the Ladies
Championship of Australia and a wager of £3O in skiffs.
The lady contestants will he the present holder, Miss
Gertie Lewis (married since she won the championship),
and Miss Kathleen Ryan, championess of the Northern
Rivers.
* * * *
The eight-oar championship of S. Aus. was a
horrible fiasco this year. The Port River was rough,
and naturally the Port Adelaide crew are better water-
men than those of the city, who practise ordinarily on
the shallow and sheltered Torrens Lake. At the end of a
mile, three of the four boats were full of water. Mer-
cantile sank, and the steamers “ stood by ” to help.
Adelaide and University got to shore, emptied their
boats, and made a good fight for second place. Mean-
while Port had covered the course alone.
* » * *
“ B.” : There’s no sensible reason why the
wrangle with “ Not-at-All ” should be prolonged. After
the third Test was gathered in by S’Africa with the help
of Sundries —a large pile of which was due to the no-ball
defaulting of Kelleway and Cotter—this humble person
suggested that “ the Australian selection committee has
the glorious option of smothering players who persist in
their efforts to present ‘the ashes’ to the other side.”
The Australian bowlers aforesaid “didn’t persist”; on
the other hand, they took the hint, showed that their
lapse was carelessness, and have been cricketers of high
standard ever since.
MACART NETS
LITTLE WAYS.
In the first three
Test, matches he made
15 runs. In his last
three innings he
made three centuries.
J. N. Crawford is getting restless already. He
announces that he will throw up his billet as a master at
St. Peter’s College, Adelaide, at the end of the present
term, and may probably go “on the land.” His breach
with Surrey county is understood, however, to be
quite healed now, so pretty well anything may happen.
Since coming to Australia Crawford has been simply a
bowler ; but on a recent Saturday he showed some of his
old-time batting, knocking up a chanceless 182 in two
hours on the Adelaide Oval against the bowling of Wright
and Travers.
* * * *
In the Melbourne Oofball’s discussion of the
proposal to abolish rule 29, which prohibits the payment
of players, a delegate beautifully put it that, under con-
ditions of “ non-payment,” “ the players are asking more
than the clubs could afford ; last year our men demanded
and got £447 out of a total revenue of £680.” Another
delegate suggests district football and: an amalgamation
with the League. His motion to that effect won’t come
on for a fortnight, by which time anything may have
happened. Whatever eventuates, Vic. football is a sort
of hashmagandy at present, and it might not be . a bad
idea to get the Noxious Trades Board to investigate the
subject.
* * * *
When the great Oofball question was under
official discussion in Melbourne, a representative of the
University F.O. wanted to know “whether we have to
deal with a game or a business?” Which was highly
characteristic of “gentleman amateurism.” Football,
of course, is a game, like cricket, hockey or lacrosse ; but
the fixing up of contests which draw hundreds of pounds
of o-ate-money is a business. Therefore the players are
engaged in assisting a business whether they get paid
for their services or give them gratis. Cricket is
none ■* the less a game because a number of the
players earn their living at it. Practically the pro-
fessionals are paid out of gate-money, for if
there were no gate there’d be ho fixed salaries for the
honest pros, or fees and “ expenses ” for the fraudulent
amateurs. Nor is football any the less a game because
professional players are now throwing aside all pretence
of secrecy in accepting payment. In the original and
true sense of the word, an amateur could play no part in
any game or sport which takes place within any sort of
enclosure where .money is charged for admission. The
Melbourne University fellows are obviously employed in
somebody’s business if they kick about in a gate-money
show, and the question as to whether they are playing
the game for love or money is beside the point.
* * * *
On Tuesday of last week the Vic. Oofball
League decided not to pay players openly. On Wednes-
day the Association agreed “to reimburse players for
their services.” The League has been boss body ; but
this action of the Association means that it must tumble
down in a hurry from its attitude of pretending to a
virtue which everybody knows it doesn’t possess, and
follow the Association’s suit; or else keep its secret pay-
ments up to a scale high enough to prevent the rival
body buying up its men. Many League delegates thought
that, with professionalism admitted, the good player
would open his mouth too wide. He does that now, and
every time he opens his mouth the League puts its oof
in i,; - „ „ ,
* * * *
Adelaide has had a fight for what called itself
the Lightweight Championship of Australia, and Hugh
Mehegan covered himself with honor in it, both as boxer
and as sportsman. It did not go the agreed 20 rounds.
After the second, Jim Armstrong showed that he was not
good enough. In the third, he was down for 8 seconds,
and then for nine ; but he battled along most gamely till
the ninth round, when he went down four times, and
finally stood up helpless. Here was Mehegan’s chance.
He took it ; but not in the usual way. He stood back
and refused to hit a man who was unable to hit back.
Then the gong went and saved Armstrong ; but Micko
Walsh, referee, stopped the fight and gave it to Mehegan,
with the loser gamely but ungratefully clamoring to be-
allowed to go on and get stoushed some more.
* * * *
Australia will have a nice string of athletes at
the English Festival of Empire Sports at Coronation
time. W. A. Woodger (M.L.) will go for the 100yds. and
2.2oyds. run; “Dad” Wheatley (Vic.) for the half-mile
and the mile; and Harding (M.L.), Marden, Lynch
(N.S.W.), Larking (Victoria), and denies (Tasmania) will
nibble at the middle distances. Davis(Melb. ’Varsity), the
hurdler, is unable to leave the shop, as it would interfere
with his medico exams.; so Frank “ Moroomba” Brown
(Vic.), who was the Australasian champion hurdler a few
years back, has been selected. Harold Hardwick will try
for the 100yds. and mile swims, with Maorilander M. E.
Champion and J. Lord (N.S.W.) to assist,, Hardwick will
be in the heavy-weight boxing contest, too. E. W.
Schnieder, wrestler and bikist, is to represent this little
bit of the earth in the Hackenschmidt business. Wilding
(M.L.), Doust (N.S.W.), Heath and A. W. Dunlop (Vic.)
will be within coo-ee of the tennis courts. New South
Wales wants about £250 for its representatives’ exes., but
Victoria only require £l2O for Wheatley, as Brown is
standing the damage of his own trip. “Bustle” is the
order of the day, and the hat is being taken round vigor-
ously. • *'
Tile Vic. Athletic Association, finding a few
coppers in its pocket at the end of its year, has dropped
them into the hat of the people who guaranteed the
awful Athletic Pageant of 12 months ago. The Ass.
isn’t legally liable; but it is going to keep on digging
until it has raised enough to pay off every penny. Ten
shillings in the £ has now been wiped out.
* * * *
Died last month, at Southampton, Charles
Barr, perhaps the greatest yacht-skipper the world has
known. He sailed the America Cup defender Columbia
when she heat, Shamrock in 1899 ; also, Shamrock 11. in
1901; and Reliance when she beat Shamrock 111. in 1903.
Deceased was only 46, and his trouble was heart disease.
*** * -
Young George Gray’s opponents in England
can put some pathos into their complaint that he com-
pels them to “ sit and get cold on it” whilst he is piling
up his losing hazard breaks. If Fred Lindrum grew
weary of watching whilst his young friend was scoring
400 or 500 in an innings, what about the woes of Diggle?
The Englishman has to sit and nurse his cue whilst Gray'
makes 1402 in 115 minutes t The monotony of the old
spot stroke was as nothing compared with this, for
the player was always on the move from side to side
of the table, and his scoring was much faster than
Gray’s. The Australian remains always behind the baulk
line, and is not required to shift his feet more than a few
inches. When the billiard world has satiated its wonder-
ment in watching the new specialist there is bound to be
a demand for a means of stopping the losing-hazard
monotony. Professional billiard playing must be attrac-
tive to live, and variety of strokes is its only abiding
attraction. But the rules of the game as regards hazard-
strike from the “ baulk crescent ” can’t be amended, with
fairness to Gray, until he has won the championship. If
Stevenson is well advised he will arrange a test match
with the Australian phenomenon as soon as possible
before the novelty has worn off the young-
ster’s monotonous game. A championship meeting
between the pair would draw the biggest “ gate ”
there ever was for a billiard show ; nor would the easy
victory of Gray—which seems an- inevitable result—
immediately exhaust public interest in the competition
between “ all round ” and losing hazard play. But if
Gray is allowed to go on makihg hacks of Diggle and
others in exhibition games, there wonß be much gate-
money' left for a championship match with Stevenson or
anybody else.
* * * *
“ Klifton ” : With the object of defeating the
bicy'cle thief, a Melbourne citizen has invented a handle
which can be affixed to or detached from one’s machine
at will, A person having to leave a bicycle out in the
street can, by a simple movement, render it headless,
and thus block the thief pretty effectively. Certainly'
the thief might be a trick rider, who could do without
handles, or he might haye a spare handle up his sleeve ;
but the owner will have to risk that. Still, what’s the
matter with a small padlock fastened round the chain?
* * * *
A queer thing happened at last Geelong race-
meeting. The Peach ran second in the Connewarre Purse.
The judge (J. O. Inglis) says that, before streaking for
Melbourne, he told his assistant to hoist The Peach’s
number below the winner’s. However, that official mis-
takenly put up the figure belonging to Brig o’ Doom Now
the V.R.C. rules say that the judge must make any alter-
ations in his decisions inside half an hour. So the
“bloomer” has to stand, with all its attendant bad
language and injustice.
The Raid of the Aeroplanes is being rehearsed
in France. On Saturday last, Captain Bellunger left Pau
for Parisiwith a fleet of aeroplanes in battle formation.
The affair would appear to have been successful. What
with armored motor-cars, raiding aeroplanes, submarines
and other recent and devilish inventions, war is beooming
a filthy business in which no one will find any glory.
* * * *
True Scot is a real gentleman, who does his
duty in any state of life to which he may be called.
After winning a lot of races, he broke down at the Ade-
laide Cup meeting last May. Since then he has had a
season at the stud, being considered a hopeless proposi-
tion so far as racing is concerned ; but at Caulfield the
other day' he ran fourth in a big field. Braw Scot, winner
of the Hawkesburn Handicap, is a younger brother.
CHAMBERLAIN’S TABLETS.
A remedy in tablet form -having specific action
on the stomach, liver and bowels. Easy to take,
prompt and gentle in their action and beneficial,
in results. Try a box if you are troubled with
constipation. Sold everywhere Is. 6d.
If the racing at the V.R.C. Autumn Meeting
could be kept up to last Saturday’s level of interest, the
attendances would get a lot nearer to Cup-time figures.
The public saw some sport on Newmarket Handicap day.
It was an occasion for the breaking of time records. The
winners didn’t “ fluke ” home ; they had to get there on
their merits. And.the best thing about the racing was
that, although it was not better for punters than the
average bookies’ bean feast, it was mostly a confirma-
tion of form. Even the sour surprise which the
Wilson stable sprung on the public in the St.
Leger go was within the bounds of reasonable
expectation. Dinaus won the Caulfield Guineas
in brilliant style, and subsequently trained light, after
getting a bad bumping in the Eclipse Stakes ; and be-
cause those subsequent performances were,over longer
distances than the Guineas course, the spry little son of
Bobadil was wrongly assumed to be a squib. In the
Leger race Danaus went out to make the pace, and stayed
in front to the bitter end, just as J.P.A. did in the Vic.
Derby of yore, where Emir and Sweet Nell, his stable com-
panions, were the public fancies. In this case the punters
took even money about Bobadea ; but if its despised
stable companion was able to win from end to end in ex-
ceptionally good time, they had nothing to complain of.
The Newmarket was spoken of as a boil-over,
inasmuch as Blairgoiir, after running brilliantly over 5£
furlongs, and seven furlongs at Caulfield, failed to repeat
its flyaway form up the straight six furlongs at Fleming-
ton. In this case, the opposition was stronger, the pace
was faster from the outset, and all the horses that Blair-
gour had beaten for the Futurity were meeting him on
much better terms. Of these only Desert Rose, the
N.S.W. mare, showed an unreasonable reversal of form.
She went out at 33 to 1, and finished absolutely
last at Caulfield; whereas she was backed dpwn
to 15’s at Flemington and finished second, with
Queen o’ Scots and Broadsword fore and aft of her. For
the rest the running was satisfactory enough. Broad-
sword, the most dangerous opponent of Blairgour on
paper, would probably have won if he had got nearly as
good a start as Queen" o’ Scots did. He was never in the
front rank until the end of the struggle, and then he,got
within a length of the winner.
The advantage of being a bookmaker is very
evident in the result of such races as this. There were
■29 runners, and most of them well backed. The first
and second favorites start at 7 to 4 and 5 to 1 respect-
ively. Neither wins. Consequently the public all round
is left lamenting'; and yet the result is riot a turn-up.
The 20 or so rank outsiders are never in it, with the
exception of England, a 60 to 1 chance, who finished
fourth. The winner is actually third favorite, and .four
of the first five favorites till Ist, 2nd, 3rd and sth places.
All the same, the books collectively win tens of thou-
sands of pounds on the deal, because Blairgour ran dis-
appointingly, and Broadsword didn’t happen to get a
gbod start.
Up to last Saturday, the visiting gees were doing
very badly agginst the local talent in the Melbourne
autumn competitions. Possibly they will have com-
menced to assert themselves before Thk Bulletin is pub-
lished. Victoria, seemingly, has three unquestionable
w'.f.a. “cracks” in Comedy King, Trafalgar and Alawa,
and it is good to see the trio being raced against one
another by owners who get more satisfaction from a vic-
tory than from the cash value of it. They had a great
go for the Essendon Stakes (1£ mile), in which Trafalgar
was expected to'turn the Melbourne.Oup tables on Comedy
King, if ever he could do it,. The Wallace horse was
almost jaunty in his fitness; Comedy King’s coat glistened,
-and Alawa, although a bit above himself in condition,
looked quite capable of snatching a victory if the pace
was slow at the outset. To obviate which, possibility
Trafalgar’s owners started a pacemaker in one Bibben-
luke, who, by the way, barely succeeded in taking the
lead from Son of the Marsh for the first half-mile. When
the two leaders were spun out Trafalgar went ahead.
The idea was that Comedy King might tire under his
Bst. 111 b. burden ; but the black horse proved too good
for Trafalgar after all. He won by a length in the record
time of 2min. 31£sec. It was the race of Trafalgar’s life
thus far ; but he carried 61b. more than the winner, and
couldn’t sprint with him when the crisis was .reached.
Alawa had been practically knocked out by the other two
champions three furlongs from home, yet he fairly beat
the other four starters for place money.
An illustration of the honest uncertainty of the
Turf—as-distinguished from the uncertainty which is
fraudulent—was supplied by the imported horse Eye-
glass at Caulfield and Flemington. At Caulfield, he was
reckoned by trainer Scobie to be a moral for one of the
minor handicaps. He never gave his backers a hope.
Trainer could only say that Eyeglass ran a very bad race.
There were no excuses for the defeat. A week later, at
Flemington, the stable had some misgivings as to how
the animal would perform, but this time Eyeglass ran
gamely and won a hard race.
“.Timothy Tufthunter” : Read this in a
London paper for January 6 about Australia :
“In this country nearly as much is spent upon
cigarettes as upon national defence.” When we
have been Japanned, think of this for an epitaph:
“They preferred cigarettes to Liberty.”
C. Y. O’Connor, one of the best engineers
Australia has ever known, strongly advocated an
overhead railway from East Perth through Perth,
so that the city should not be carved in two by
banks and cuttings crossed by bridges. That whs
as far back as 1896. But the Government kept on
bridge-building and city-bisecting; and now the
Barrack-street bridge-widening calls for resump-
tions and heavy payments, principally because
the people who didn’t know wouldn’t listen to the
man who did knowi


LOOK FOR NAME ON STRAP.
m
mm mm
NO FOOT CRAMP!
MO one type of last will fit all kinds of feet,
but by the Marshall scientific method of
last modelling, all types of feet are fitted
Comfortably, whether your taste
runs to the extreme styles favored
by the young men of to-dav,
or to more conservative
models.
Sand for our free Style Book,
and see how varied and superior
are the Marshall Styles.
Why not try good-look-
ing shoes - plus ease?
"No breaking-in”
is applied to Mar-
shall Shoes
with TRUTH
22/6
Also made in “ Ktini-ax" IQ ICt
(our Alt. 2 Grade), at 10/U
Style No. 1516.
Dango
Pat. Colt Bal.
Calf Kid Quarters,
Bogo Last
(also in Blucher).
Sold
in ovei
500 Towns
MARSHALL SHOE CO.,
RICHMOND, VIC
262
ANOTHER STYLE NEXT WEEK
BOilt for bard Service!
One glance at the Tubular Steel Barrow is sufficient to convince one
its adaptability to stand rough
usage. The Solid Steel Trays are
without seam or rivet, and are de-
tachable. Note how the handles pass
around
the wheel I
and pro-
vi d e a
rest for
dumping.
No. 10—Barrow capacity 4001 b. to 500ib. coal,
60/- No. -Barrow capacity 3 cubic feet of
earch, 45/- No. 4 -Barrow capacity 3 cubio
feet of earth, 33/-
Extra Trays and Duplicate Parts in stock.
] 256-page Catalogue Post Free. Write for it ! j
When writing, please mention this paper.
Thomas McPherson & Son,
..
Established 50 Years,
582-588 Collins St., Melbourne.
L I OJJ EUR
BENEDICTINE
ROYAL
EASTER
SYDNEY
11th to 19th April, 1911.
ENTRIES CLOSE:
Horses - March 15
Cattle - March 16
Sheep and Pigs = = March 16
Poultry = March 17
Dogs = = == =
Farm and Dairy Produce
Women’s Industries
Miscellaneous =>
- March 20
= March 21
- March 22
- March 23
PRIZE SCHEDULES and ENTRY FORMS
Posted on Application.
Ocean House,
Moore Street, Sydney.
K. M. SOMER,
Secretary.
1 i. «\A
00*
-tSNxao
cno
SSSI
OLD ORKNEY
Real LiqueurWhisky
Wl
•J
'
AGENTS:
SYDNEY-Tcoheys, Ltd.
MELBOURNE —T. R. Jones & Co.
BRISBANE—EIIiott. Donaldson
& Douglas, Ltd.
ADELAIDE—Lord & Heseltino.
HOBART—John Ferguson & Co
LAUNGESTON—Jonn McKenzie & Co.
THE WHISKY
FOR THE HOME
THE “TRIUMPH” Always Scores.
Most motor cyclists in this State know Kowen Hill, just outside
of Queanbeyan. It has the name of being a particularly stiff
climb, and the machine that can get to the top without help
is indeed a good one.
Last month three “ Triumphs”—one without any pedalling gear
whatever—made a clean climb to the top, while a fourth
machine—of another make—had to be helped by pedalling.
Come in and let us show you some of the patented features which
make the “Triumph” the peer of all Motor Cycles.
Bennett & Barkell, Ltd,
Sole Agents for “ Triumph ” in N.S.W.,
234 Pitt Street and Castlereagh Street
t Sydney.
■Our New Catalogue
is Out!
We want to send a copy to every man interested in
High-Grade Footwear.
It shows the latest styles in Gent.’s Quality Shoes.
Send for a copy.
The Boot illustrated is a Patent Kid Lace Boot, dull
Calf Kid leg, with patent lace facing. Walking or
dress wear. Prices 27/6 and 30/-.
The RIGNEY SHOE CO.,
“The Exclusive Men’s High-Grade Shoe Stores,”
305 George Street, Sydney, and
179 a Pitt Street, Sydney.
Please note that the new shop in Pitt Street is
under the personal management of Mr. F. C.
Rigney, who is the sole and only proprietor of
the above firm.
THe “ MOT A” (Regd.)
The “Mota ” Hat is conceded everywhere to be
the standard in style, quality and workmanship.
It is easily the most comfortable of hats, and
equally suitable for town or country wear, for busi-
ness or holidays, for walking:, driving: or ridings for
week days or Sundays, for wet days or fine days,
for warm weather or cold weather.
The “ Mota ” is the hat that suits every head and
every occasion. Stocked by leading- houses through-
out Australia, in all fashionable colors. Prices,
7/6 to 12/6. If unobtainable in your district,
write us direct.
THE AUSTRAL HAT MILLS, LIMITED,
ABBOTSFORD, MELBOURNE.
ST*
Antarctic Expedition.
: :
To supply the power for his motor sledges,
with which he hopes to reach the South Pols
CAPTAIN R. F. SCOTT, R,N. (
CHOSE
“SHELL”
MOTOR SPIRIT;
Why?
Because be took it to the anowsof Norway and wtrtaflfr
tried it on his snow sledges before he‘ would trust
himself to use it in the unknown Arctic Regional
It* perfect purity—
that’s the point ! t
GUARANTEED 2 YEARS.
20-30 h.p. Chalmers
£,490
s=Seater
Touring Car.
40-hp. THOMAS,
6=Cylinder 7=Seater.
ROY W. SAND FORD,
181 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Also at 105 EXHIBITION STREET, MELBCURNE
TR9UCHETS
DIURETIC
KIDM&MM
REM EDY
A CORRECTIVE
OF THE
URINARY
ORGANS
IT IS
ALSO A
SPLENDItf
TOM 1C
Obr&mdb/e o>// Chpm/s/s
AGENTS WANTED.
I'VE Representatives to control exclusive
, territory for manufacturer’s line of Hisrh-
grade Soaps and Toilet Articles. Sensible
assortments in beautiful boxes at low prices.
100 per cent, to 200 per cent, profit. Write for
Illustrated Catalogue.
E. M. DAVIS SOAP CO., Chicago, U S.A.
Established 15 Years.


Shipping.
P. and 0. BRANCH SERVICE
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
* Twin-screw.
SALOON ACCOMMODATION, AMIDSHIPS,
CONVERTED INTO VERY SUPERIOR
ONE CLASS.
LONDON £l6, £lB and £BO.
CAPETOWN and NATAL £l3 135., £l5 15s. and £l7 17s.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD., 7 Bent St.
Mklkournk _ .Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agknts : GEO. WILLS & CO.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN D.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy. New and luxurious
12,000-ton Steamers. Cabines-de-'uxe ; State-rooms, with
bedsteads; Single Berth Roonr, Private Bathrooms;
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Sailing every fortnight from BRISBANE, SYDNEV,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Place, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
flank of florth Queensland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J P. CANNY.
Local Director:
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 4 QUEEN VICTORIA STREET, E.C.
Manager: R. R. LOVE.
Bankers: THE LONDON COUNTY & WESTMINSTER
BANK LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
flank of |)eui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
Total Capital Paid-up £2,000,000
Uncalled Capital £500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits £804,134
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
transacts all other usual
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
Banking business.
THE
Australian Bank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL - - - £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,197,127
PAID-UP (31st December, 1910) - - £1,145,933
HEAD OFFICE—George and King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE—2 King William Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS—Sir William P. Manning, Kt., Chairman ;
George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D. ; Ciias. 11. Myles, Esq. ;
Mark Sheldon, Esq. ; Arthur S. Barton, Esq.; Frank
N. Yarwood, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the world.
A. P. STEWART, General Manager.
The ...
Queensland National Bank,
Limited
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1803.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 413,484 8 10
Reserve (in Gov. Stock) 94,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock . 3,091,669 4 5
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 Specially Protected.
Directors: JAS. MILNE, Esq., Chairman; JAMES
MUNRO, Esq. ; Hon. A. J. CALLAN, Esq., M.L.C. ;
JOHN CAMERON, Esq. ; F. LORD, Esq.
General Manager— W. V. RALSTON.
Branches—London, Sydney & throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up £519,237 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. .. 161,384 0 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Gove. Stock) .. 75,500 0 0
HEAD OFFICE : BRISBANE. -
Gen. Mngr.: Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London,
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
The Colonial mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds. £3,000,000.
Policies Issued 116.154 —Assuring £33,888,510.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,727,264.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors :
The Hot- C. J. Roberts, C.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Shipping:.
REDUCED FARES
To EUROPE
BY
Nord D
PARES TO LONDON.
SINGLE .. 1., £66 11., £3B 10s. 111., £l5 to £l7
RETURN.. 1., 99 11., 57 15s. 111., 27 to 30 12s
PASSENGERS hooked to Egypt, Naples,
Genoa, Algiers, Marseilles, Gibraltar,
London, Antwerp, and Bremen.
w Pitted with “ Wireless” installation.
* Arriving in London in good time for the Coronation.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
REGULAR FOUR-WEEKLY MAIL
SERVICE from Sydney and Brisbane, via
New Guinea, by Twin-screw Steamers.
For Passage and Full Particulars apply to—
LOHMANN & CO., General Agents,
7 & 9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
fTIHE BULLETIN POST CARDS-New
X Series. IV., V.. VI. Packet of Twelve,
Gd. ; Packet of Ten, sd. Forwarded Post Free
to any address.
TN€ AB€RP€€N LINC.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth and
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLINC AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
h Calls Hobart. Fitted Wireless Telegraphy.
FARF.S — Saloon. 3rd Ciass.
London .. From £57 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
P. & O. Branch Service.
Special Return Tickets available for outward passage
by Orient Line—£ll2 (First-class each way); £B5
(Second-class Orient).
ROUND THE WORLDS Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
DALCETY & COMPANY, LTD., Asrents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN, PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
Twin-screw Steamers.
AFRIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
March 18.
SUBVIC, 12,500 tons, to sail about
April 13.
PERSIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
May 10.
RUNIC and MEDIC to follow.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy and
Submarine Signalling- Apparatus.
Omy One Class of Accommodation.
PARKS—Capetown or Durban fclo 15 0 to £24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
Melbourne . .. .. 1 10 0
New York, Boston, Quebec,
Montreal, &c. from 25 0 0
Pamphlets and all other information on application.
LUGGAGE Received Onlv on ])av of Sailing,
DALGETY & COMPANY, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
HOLIDAY CRUISES
to Papua and the Pacific Islands.
To Papua, via Brisbane, Cairns Return £2O
Mar. 10, April 21. (five weeks’ round trip)
To Solomon Islands Return £2O
April 7, May 19. (five weeks’ round trip)
To Lord Howe Island, Norfolk Island and
New Hebrides (seven weeks’ trip) Return £25
First of every month.
Send for illustrated descriptive pamphlet, describing these
and other delightful Holiday Trips, from £lO upwards.
BURNS, PH/LP & CO., Ltd., 11 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES,
HEAD OFFICE: MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
MONEY TO LEND
To Farmers and Settlers from £5O to £2OOO,
repayable by instalments extending over 30 years
with right to repay loan without penalty.
Partial repayments on farorable terms.
Low rates of interest.
Valuation Fees on lowest scale.
On Investment up to £25,C00 for fixed terms not
exceeding five years. Interest payable half-yearly.
Right to repay one-fifth of principal each year
allowed. , .
Security offered must consist of Freehold Land.
Lowest current rates of interest.
Fall particulars and forms of application for loans obtainable at any Branch or Post Office Agency, or from
Crown Land'! Agents and at the Head Office, MOOItE STREET, SYDNEY. J. H. Paviks, Secretary^
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
£2,817,660
£1,872,695
£2,817,660
£7,508,015
DIRECTORS:
The Hon. C. lv. MacKellar, M.L.C., President.
Senator The Hon. James Thomas Walker.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Thonias Buckland, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.C.
Auditors : Alfred George Milson, Esq. ; William Harrington Palmer, Esq.
Head Office—George St., Sydney. London Office—64 Old Broad St., E.C.
With 319 Branches in all the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji and Papua (New South Wales 159, Victoria 37,
Queensland 47, South Australia 5, West Australia 11, New Zealand 54, Fiji 3, Papua 2, London 1); and
Agents and Correspondents throughout Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India, China, Japan, and
the East, Africa, Canada, the United States, South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
Cable remittances made to, and Drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIjIECT. Foreign Bills negotiated and
collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
FURS, Curios, Shells &. Opals
The Largest Store in Australasia.
Established 1860.
Tost & Rohu,
Taxidermists, Furriers, Tanners
and Island Curio Dealers,
10, 12 & 14 MOORE STREET, Opp. C.P.0.,
SYDNEY. Central 2196.
Large Showrooms and Museum, containing thousands of
Australian Souvenirs. Inspection invited.
Returning- Boomerangs from 1/6 each. Carved Emu Eggs,
4/6 each. Native Grass Dresses, 4/6. Bow and Six Arrows,
2/6 the ,set. Spears, Clubs, Idols, Kava and Food Bowls,
Shields, Masks, Stone Axes, Bark Belts, Tappa and Matting.
Bet Snakes, 20/-, Snake Skin Tie? and Watch Guards, 2/- each ;
Snake Skin Belts and Braces, 7/6 ; Slippers, 12/6; Boots,
£l/2/6 per pair. Skins made up into Ladies’ Furs, Mats,
Rusrs and Foot Warmers.
And 605 CEORCE ST., SYDNEY. City 2374. Stuffed Birds and Animals in Large Variety.
All Purchases Packed Free and Larrlled. Collections of Cenuine Curios from £3.
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.,
VoR 1
Ordinary 8 Industrial Life Assurance.
Directors:
H. Montgomerie Hamilton, Esq., Chairman.
VICTOR. E. Ludlow, Esq., L.1t.C.5.1., L.K.Q.C.P.I.
Claude Manning, Esq.
John F. Urk, Esq.
Ceneral Manager: J. A. Henderson.
Secretary:
Freeman J. Eaton.
Consulting Actuary
W. R. Day, F.I.A.
Head Office:
30 CASTLEREACH ST. (facing Moore St.), SYDNEY.
Queensland:
Metropolitan Buildings,
Adelaide St., Brisbane.
Victoria:
48 Queen St.
Melbourne.
The “Metropolitan ” alvyays has vacancies on its
Agency Staff for reliable and trustworthy men.
THE OCEAN
Accident & Guarantee
Corporation Limited,
Ocean House, 22 Moore Street, Sydney.
Fire, accident, workmen’s com-
pensation, PUBLIC RISK, BUR-
GLARY and PLATE-GLASS INSURANCES
at Lowest Rates.
HE TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £37,500 0 0
Dirkctors : R. Marray Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Chairman ;
John Grice, Esq., Vice-Ohairnian ; Hon. J. M. Pratt; J. H.
MacFarland, Esa., M.A., LL.D. ; Alexander M‘Oracken.
JAMES BORROW MAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
CARBID E.
For First-class Results use Best Scandinavian
carbide:.
Addresses of Merchants distributing it can be obtained
from AUGUST BLUMENTHAL LIMITED, 62 Pitt
Street, Sydney, Sole Agents for Australia.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports*
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
GERALDTON (W.A.)
S.S. Kanowna, April land
April 29
(To Fremantle without
transhipment), connect-
ing- with Koombana
in Fremantle for North
West Ports.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Porta North to Oairns.
S.S. Gtantala, March 11.
S.S. YongaFa, March 18.
Best and Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company's Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
To VANCOUVER, via BRISBANE
FIJI, and HONOLULU, thence
by Rail to any part of CANADA
or UNITED STATES.
The Best Route to Europe.
SAILINGS :
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Illustrated Pamphlets Free on Application.
Agents throughout Canada, United States
and Europe—Canadian Pacific Railway Co.
For full particulars apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD:.
Managing Agents, 259 George-street, Sydney.
F.—H.
Federal«Houlder-Shire Lines.
For London and Liverpool 1 .
Via SUEZ CANAL.
T.S.S. “ ESSEX,”
11,300 Tons. T. Priske, Commander-
Will be despatched from BRISBANE - about 24th Mar.
„ „ „ SYDNEY - - ~ Ist April
„ „ „ MELBOURNE „ 6th April
~ ~ ~ HOBART- - „ 10th April
~ „ ~ ADELAIDE - ~ 18th April
The saloon accommodation consists of all two-berth
cabins on the upper deck, situated amidships.
The superior third-class accommodation, comprised of
two, four and eight-berth cabins, situated on the main
deck, amidships, with dining room on the upper deck.
Well lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious decks.
Third-class passengers supplied with fresh provisions
from cool chamber throughout the voyage. Surgeon and
Stewardess carried. Electric light throughout. Return
and Round Trip tickets issued via Cape and (or) Suez
routes. Prepaid passages arranged.
FARES— Saloon. Third Class.
[ £49 10s - £l3 13s - £is 15s - £l7 17s -
Steerage fares from Brisbane One Guinea extra.
To be followed at regular four-weekly intervals by fast
twin-screw passenger steamers. For further information,
illustrated books, pamphlets, etc., apply to
BIRT & CO.. Ltd., Svdnev and Brisbane ;
H. JONES & CO.. Ltd., Hobart;
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN & Co., Ltd., Melbourne;
ELDER. SMITH & Co., Ltd.. Adelaide.
Millars’ Karri S Jarrah
Co. (1902), ltd.
We Supply—
ARRAH Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’ Scant-
ling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
72 BISHOPSGATE STREET WITHIN,
LONDON, E.O.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68J PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
*"BRANDTJy
ATMOSLITF
Gas Machine
Air-Gas
Machine —
BRANDT’S
ATMOSLITE.
For Lighting and Oooking.
Send for Catalogue.
BRANDT BROS., LTD.,
Lamphouse,
236 Pitt St., Sydney; also
Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
For Sale.
c
HEAP, Second-Hand 15BreakH.P.
TANQYE GAS ENGINE,
IN GOOD ORDER.
Apply Manager, “BULLETIN” OFFICE,
214 George Street, Sydney.
TBIHE Australian Magazine. THE LONE
I HAND, the National Monthly. Price 6d«


Concerning the home of the lately-deacl
“ Jimmy ” Russell: —
Barunah Plains Station forms part of the immense
slieep-run of the Mercers which, no longer than 50 years
ago, comprised all the rich country between the Barwon
and the Leigh (Vic.). Afterwards the squatter kingdom
was cut into six or seven fine stations. The original run
was called Weatherboard. Its present name is Inver-
leigh. There was nothing between Weatherboard, in the
elbow of the Barwon and the Leigh, near Geelong, and
Golf Hill (which belonged to the George Russells), on the
upper fork of the Leigh towards Ballarat. The Mercers
owned this great piece of land as a sheep run ; but they
lived in Scotland and left it to a manager to work. They
had another gigantic place for cattle and horses at Mount
Mercer, near Ballarat and Buninyong. There were no
fences and consequently no paddocks ; the sheep were
shepherded by day and yarded with movable hurdles at
night. One Bob Bass was a famous shepherd on this
run, and his wife helped him to move the hurdles. A son
and daughter of the couple afterwards carried on the
>hepherding job as a sort of hereditary privilege. Bass
wars an old Van Demonian, but, for all that, was
a fine old chap, much trusted by his employers.
Most of the men employed in that part, at that
time, were of the same type. They were the earliest con-
victs of Tasmania, and formed a sort of aristocracy. A
later crowd were counted unmanageables, and from them
the earlier “forced immigrants ” held themselves aloof
with all the uppishness of any other older aristocracy.
The tyranny of English laws and the ferocity of English
Judges helped the early squatters to man their vast tracts
of country. But tyrannical laws and ferocious Judges
sometimes did better for their victims than they in-
tended ; for many a hard-working honest man of the Bass
type carved a niche for himself in Australian wool his-
tory, and filled it to the great profit of his family.
YOU DON'T KNOW WHAT A
* SMOKE * IS TILL YOU'VE
TRIED MY CIGARS
o^y\>
I’M going to have my Cigars smoked over every
part of Australasia—and the most confirmed
pipe-smokers are going to be the biggest
smokers of my Cigars, too.
Talk about joy! Why, to sit round a camp
fire, over a billy of tea, pitching to your mates,
each of you smoking one of my Cigars, joy isn’t
in it! It’s just simply bliss!
As the yarns go round, the blue smoke
curling upwards in a fragrant cloud, the
smooth cool Havana flavor lingering on your
lips—l tell you, you'll spend some of the
happiest hours of your life.
%<lt£h
Letters are coming in to
me in shoals from all over
Australasia, praising up my
Cigars. Take one I've just
got as I write this, for in-
stance—it's from a chap on a
cattle station up in Northern
Queensland, He writes:—•
“Those DIADEMAS Cigars
ofyoursare just alright. I've
always smoked a pipe—but
no more. Not that I’vegiven
up pipe-smoking altogether;
but when I want a real smoke
—something rich —I light up
one of your DIADEMAS,
and give myself up to its
pure enjoyment."
To make you acquainted
with my Cigars, and prove
their value, I make you this
FREE OFFER of
5 or 6 CIGARS
you may select.
Send for 100 of any of
Remit the amount, and
I will deliver promptly,
postage or carriage paid,
to any address in Aus-
tralia.
Smoke 5 op 6 of them, and if they’re
not superior to most Cigars at double the
price, send the remainder back to me, and
I’ll return every penny of your money —no
charge made for the Cigars you’ve smoked.
My Cigars are made from the very finest
mild, rich mellow Tobacco, the filling or inside
heart of the cigar being all straight long
, leaf. The Cigars are hand-made by skilled
workers, and every box has to pass me before
it goes out to a customer ; and is guaranteed
to burn freely and draw easily.
There s no “catch” about this offer—it’s just
plain and honest. To prove it, you can refer
as to my financial position and way of doing
business to the Manager of the Commercial Bank
of Australia, Collins Street, Melbourne. He’ll
vouch for me.
Send down for a box to-day—once you smoke
them you 11 make it a habit, and buy regularly
from me. When ordering, say whether you
like light, medium, or dark colors,
My Only Address is
LOUIS KAUFFMANN
34 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE
TASMANIA FOR TOURISTS!
Temperature mild ; Atmosphere exhilarating ; Scenery magnificent. Tourists splendidly
looked after by the well-organised Tourist Association.
Highfield Hotel, Hobart.
The Leading Hotel—the Fashionable Resort of Tourists. Lavishly Furnished ; Excellent
Attendance; First-class Cuisine; Kosher Meat; Telephone; Electric Light; Select Billiard
Room, etc. Central Situation; close to River, Rail, Trams, G.P.0.,-Tourist Bureau, etc.
Rooms now being booked for coming season. Early application requested.
S. H. MCDONALD, Manager, Highfiekl Hotel, Hobart, Tasmania.
MEDLOW BATH, Blue Mountains, N.S.W.
MAJESTIC HOTEL.
COMPLETE arrangements have been made by the new proprietor (Mr. W. H. Burgess), late of the Grand
Hotel, Melbourne, for the comfort of visitors during the forthcoming season.
Medlow Bath is an ideal resort. The crisp mountain air is a delight, and the mountains, in their
Spring garb, appeal to lovers of the picturesque. Arrangements can be made at the Hotel for motors,
carriages and riding tours.
Motor parties can be arranged any time to start from the City Office —or your own residence—direct
to the Majestic Hotel.
To pedestrians Medlow offers ever-varying attractions. The views in the mountains are superb, and
hours can be spent in walkthrough the Hotel grounds.
Hot-air pipes are laid in many rooms. Daily Motor trips are made from the Hotel to Jenolan Oaves.
Further particulars can be obtained from the Hotel, or from the Sydney Offices, 42 Oastlereagh Street.
W. H. BURGESS, Proprietor.
A PHENOMENAL BREAK
836
4
• ;;'
3273
NO more positive proof of the worthiness of an “ Alcock ” billiard table could
be given than by the splendid performance of George Gray, the young
Queensland player, in his match with Fred Lindrum, jun.
A Standard “Alcock” Billiard Table was used, and certified to by the
Amateur Billiard Association of Victoria (which is affiliated with the Billiard
Association of Great Britain and Ireland).
Gray* who made 836 —831 coming off the red, and thus made two world’s
records —used Crystallite balls, and the marvellous accuracy with which they came
off the cushions, the ease with which the most difficult shots were accomplished,
speaks for itself of the merit and superiority of “ Alcock” Billiard Tables.
Write for illustrated catalogue—it’s full of information.
Billiard Manufacturers,
397 George St., Sydney. 7 King William St., Adelaide. Lower Cuba St., Wellington.
155 Elizabeth St., Melbourne. 114 Edward St., Brisbane. Murray St., Perth. [ 3 .
♦
FOOD
is for Infants and Invalids
and for those whose digestive
powers have become weakened by
illness or advancing age.
If the digestive functions, however weak, can do
any work at all they should be given work to do to the
extent of their powers. In the easy process of its prepara-
tion the digestibility of Benger’s can be regulated to give
this work with extreme nicety.
The “British Medical Journal” says—“Benger’s Food
has, by its excellence established a reputation of its own.”
BENGER S FOOD. LTD., Otter Works, Manchester, England.
Bengers Food is sold in tins by Druggists, etc., everyivkere
823
HOTEL,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
HOTEL
CECIL
(LONDON). '
The largest and
most magnificent
Hotel in Europe.
Intending visitors
to the CORONATION
should book their
rooms early.
Cable Address: “CECELIA, LONDON.”
L
tariff Booklet gratis
at office of this paper.
A
A HUGE SUCCESS!
BIRDSJPp
'
Bird’s
Custard itoith 3ruit
The delicious Fruits of New South
Wales,when stewed, form an exquisite
Dish with BIRD'S CUSTARD, served
either hot or cold. Most popular with
Adults and the Youthful alike.
*' AWL-YOU-WANT."
THE GEM SEWING AWL.
EVERYBODY CAN USE IT.
Repairs Bags, Belts, Straps, Harness, Boots, Shoes; Sew*
2s • Posted.
(Awl, 2 needles,
x reel cotion.)
Carpets, Canvas, Blinds, Tarpaulins
etc., etc., with a LOCK-STITCH.
Its immense value in repairs to Boots
and Shoes is now well known, and in
repairs to Bags, Belts, Straps, etc., it
i is the “ Awl-youiwant,” Thread from the
reel (which may be kept in one's pocket) is
supplied continuously—a great advantage,
apparent in sewing Carpets, Canvas, Blinds, Tarpaulins, etc:
Needles are interchangeable, extra ones can always be obtain*
•d, Stout or Fine, Bent or Straight.
PRICE—Gem Sewing Awl (polished wood handle, brass
fittings, brass bobbin, 2 steel needles—l bent, 1 straight—l reel
prepared'cotton), 2s. complete, post free. Extras: Cotton,
5d., post free. Needles (stout or fine, straight or bent), 4d.,
post free; 2 for 7d., set of 8 for 2s. Send postal note to
STAR NOVELTY CO . 229 Collins Street, Melbourne.
THE DRUM
IN POSITION
(invisible
DEAFNESS 1
And HEAD NOISES Relieved br
Using WILSON’S COMMON-SENSE
EAR-DRUMS.
A scientific invention entirely different
in conttruction from all other devices.
They have restored hearing when other
devices fai ed and medical skill gaveno
relief. Soft, comfortable and invisible;
no wire or ttring attachment.
Write for Pamphlet. Mention this paper.
STAR NOVELTY CO., 5 29 Colilm
Street, Melbourne:
ASTHMA CURE
GHIAULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma,NervousCoughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GRIMAULT & Co’s INDIAN CIGAlt*
ETIES. Sn db>i all Chrmisls.
“KURLO”—Hair-CurJing Fluid. Beaut ful
wavy hair is most admired. “ Kurlo ” produces
most natural-looking waves or curls in a lew
days. Very little trouble ; no tongs or pins re-
quired. “Kurlo ” curls are not affected by fog,
r,e i air, heated ballrooms, etc. May be used
for Ladies’, Gent’s or Children’s hair. Neither sticky
nor greasy; makes the hair soft and silky. Bottles,
2S. 6d., post iree, in plain wrapper. Ami rican Toilet
Agency, Box 466 G.F.0., Melbourne.
&
"GRC-A-MO” forces growth of moustache and whis-
kers. Bottles, 25., post free, in plain wrapper.
American loilet Agency, Box 466 G P. 0., Melbourne.
A MONTHLY GUIDE for everythin? Aus-
tralian. That’s Thk Lone Hand. “A
marvellous sixpenn’oi th ! ”


HOTEL DAN I ELL
(Latb imperial), Brisbane, Queensland.
A ™ ROYAL HOTEL,
Maryborough, Queensland.
A Home lor Commercials and Others.TKl
4/-
JUST TO ADVERTISE I!
A Sixpenny Bottle of CALDWELL’S
INK and a Half-Guinea 14-carat Gold-
Nib, Iridium tipped, twin feed Fountain Pen for
If you can’t buy locally, send Postal Note
direct to
4/-
CALDWELL’S INKS PTY. LTD.,
Yarra Bank Road, Melbourne.
Laxo-Tonic Pills
Are both laxative and tonic injLCikih. They do
not gripe, but do their wfarlc effectively
and painlessly. Sold at 10£d. aBKP?w'6d.*
Get Patterns of
Our Autumn
Dress Materials.
'T'HE Manager of our Dress
A Goods Department spent
the greater part of last year in
England and the Continent,
buying for this season’s trade.
Some of the values he se-
cured are simply staggering.
Even he, himself, admits that
he has never seen such values
in Australia before.
And it’s of these wonderful
lines that we want to send
you patterns. Say what
materials you would like to
see —Armures, Tweeds, Crys-
tallines, Poplins, Coating Serges,
any of the hundred, and we will
send patterns post free.
Finney, Isles $ Co
LIMITED,
BRISBANE.
“For Valour”
The foundation of all greatness is
laid in the food of the children,
which should give them the strength
of future years—the courage of life.
Cerebos
Sair
makes all food more nourishing.
A gents—Harrison and A ttwood, Sydney.
IN BANANA LAND
Bishop Duhig, in his Lenten pastoral, re-
marks re the Bible in State schools business :
‘‘As servants of the State, Catholic teachers are
free to give the Scripture lessons provided in the
State-school curriculum.” Quite true. But the real
trouble is that, no matter what may be the con-
scientious objections of Catholic (and other)
teachers, they are not free not to give the Scripture
lessons. Conscience is coerced to make a Wowser
holiday.
Some papers, like some politicians, go right
round the clock. The Rockhampton Record,
once the child of Stewart Hartley; was, in State
politics, the most Tory rag in the Northern inky
way. But Hartley died, and younger fingers took
the pen. To-day, the Record is a Labor paper,
and has just put up a good fight for Adamson.
On the other hand, the Rockhampton Bulletin,
which was at one time the hope of the Labor
party, travelled round the other way, and has now
reached the 12 o’clock midnight of Tory gloom.
Mt. Morganaire Walter Hall keeps in re-
membrance the spot where he and Luck made a
fortune for him. His cheques for £5OO each have
lately reached one hospital at Mount Morgan, two
at Rockhampton, and two at Brisbane. There
were plenty of other Morganaires ; but they have
drifted into chronic absenteeism, and the Fog has
blotted Queensland out of their memory. Mount
Morgan hospital, by the way, is one of the hap-
piest in the State. Every toiler in the mines has
a small fraction docked from iiis pay, and, though
lie practically doesn’t know it is docked, it gives
him the right to a hospital which he has good
reason to be proud of.
Though the Bible in State schools ques-
tion has been settled by Bunanaland’s
the accounts of the Labor members who forgot
their platform have yet to be audited. Crawford,
who represents Fitzroy, was one of those who
forgot that the platform said—“ Education,
secular and free.” He recently sent his subscrip-
tion to the Fitzroy W.P.0., Mt. Morgan. A
special meeting was held, and Crawford got his
Bs. back, and this resolution with it: “That the
subscription be not accepted, and that Mr. Craw-
ford be informed that he is consequently not a
member of the Fitzroy W.P.0.” Now, Crawford
has written to the sec. of the Parliamentary Labor
Party for a helping hand; and meanwhile the
Fat elector of Fitzroy chuckles and thanks the
Devil once more for sending the insectarian curse.
Harry Mikalsen, a driver in the Royal
Artillery at Brisbane, lately climbed again to the
top of Coonowrim, one of the Glasshouse Moun-
tains. He was the first man to scale the peak,
which had been previously considered inacces-
sible. That was on March 11,1910, and he has got
to the summit three times since ; but says he
won’t tackle it any more. On his last trip he
was accompanied by Tom Roberts, a local timber-
getter, and Tom Welsby, a well-known Bnsbane-
ite. Welsby had climbed the other peaks of the
Glasshouse many years ago; but lie’s not as
young as he used to be, and had to give in when
about two-thirds of the way up Coonowrim.
Many years ago the blacks living thereabouts told
Welsby that no Binghi had ever scaled the peak,
which was said by them to be the abode of devils
of a particularly virulent type.
Trout just managed to hold the Enoggera
seat, vacated by Hawthorn, for the Denham
Government. The new member is a local butcher
: and a decent sort, whose reputation for letting
the beef bill run on has undoubtedly saved
Premier Digby from a nasty bump.
“The Jester” : Re W. H. Ramni’s claim
on the Bananaland Government for £5OOO, for
discovering that inoculation with the blood of a
recovered beast is a preventive of tick-fever in
cattle. My experience is that the immunity is
only temporary; and if a beast which has been
inoculated should be over-driven or knocked
about, it is liable to take tick-fever without hav-
ing any ticks on it at the time. Moreover, if
employed on milch cows it causes them to go dry.
In these circumstances, what is the use of the
inoculation, and what possible claim can Ramm
have on the Bananaland Government ?
If ever a town was politically bought and
bought in vain, that town was Rockhampton at
the election of 1909. It was notorious that the
Government candidates on that occasion owed
their victory to the lavish promises of the expen-
diture of Treasury money on railways, local
works, etc. Then Higgs came along and settled
the hash of the Federal Conservative candidate.
Now Laborite Adamson carries the much-bought
town into the Democratic fold, and all the mag-
nificent local railways have been promised and
built to no purpose. Even the proposed Ten
Million loan won’t save the Tory hash much
longer.
A MATTER OF CONSCIENCE.
MR. SOKER (astounded): “ What? You voted for reduction? Why?"
MR. BOKER : “ Twenty-eight pubs in our district, my boy. Can't .get round 'em all in
one evening. Must reduce 'em!”
“ The Interpreter ” to the rescue : —
You can scoff if you like, but that parson is quite
correct about the Waybaek runs and their retinues of low
women. I struck one such place when I was seeking my
fortune in the Mulga— struck it one afternoon wheri my
form contained little but a longing for home and
mother, and my boots were trying to surround the two
tenderest feet outside of Sheol. There were 73 Flossies
on the ranch on my arrival. There had, at one time, so I
heard later, been 204 ; but, business Wing slack, they had
resorted to cannibalism. Hence the Shrinkage. Jumbuck
and his missus had long since gone the way of all sinners
who import Flossies and overlook the tucker department.
My arrival was greeted with loud crie$ of joy, and the whole
73 bore down on me as one Flossie. I, being young and shy,
blushed. That was my last blush* on earth. I have a
hazy recollection that J was torn limb from limb and
eaten raw, though I may have been boiled first. I have
been killed in a Victorian train and carried away, limp
and lifeless, by victorious Norfolk-Howards in a Sydney
doss-house ; but death at the hands of starving Deliluhs
is the worst death of all. If that parson is going to wipe
those places out of existence, please forward him one
tobacco tag at my expense.
“Bromide” on the “ livipg white ” cam-
paign :—
I have been kicking about the Darling Downs the last
few weeks, and know now that there is one part of
Queensland where you can walk about without falling
over a colored alien every yard or two. They are here
all right, but not as plentiful as in other parts, mainly
because a big percentage of the people won’t patronise
them. The Conservative Downs cocky is evidently a
much better Australian than the so-called “good-Labor-
ite ” shearer “ Leo Lear ” has been fraternising with. I
reckon the crowd “Leo Liar” knows takes A.W.U.
tickets when it goes shearing because it’s got to. That
lot talks Labor and Union until your head aches—when
it is out West. But when it gets back on the farm, or
into the city, you never find it taking an active part in
anything. No doubt it-supports the Chow hotel and
Ram Chunder all right—the “ good ” Laborite doesn’t.
And one needs to choose as carefully in Brisbane as in
the North. I have padded the hoof for several hours
going from pub to pub in the city looking for a “ white ”
house, and couldn’t find one. Mr. Beerpump tells you “ I
can’t get a white cook.” In Brisbane, mind you. He’d
get white help all right if his best customers turned heel
on the place as long as it was manned by the discolored
sort.
The Optimist.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Optimism is the ability to take a brig-ht view of the
misfortunes of other people.— Recent definition.
WHEN some folk collar others’ cash
Or scoot with others’ girls ;
When raging villains madly bash
Some other’s teeth of pearls;
When other men sit down and mourn
The girls they haven’t kissed,
I bear those woes with lightsome mien—
I am an Optimist !
When some one kicks my neighbor’s toes,
Or grinds his tender corn ;
When grog-blooms on my neighbor’s nose
Induce his wife to mourn ;
When neighbor Jones has broken bones
From neighbor Jenkin’s fist,
I greet them both i n happy mood —
I am an Optimist!
When other men with others’ wives
Will “carry on ” too free,
And desolate each other’s lives
And flit to gay Paree;
When he who’s ta’en his neighbor’s grain
Doth call it lawful grist,
I have no grief for theft or thief —
I am an Optimist!
’Tis bad enough to have to weep
A toothache of your own,
Without a-spoiling of your sleep
Through hearing others groan ;
When grumblers moan their fortune flown
I never even list,
But take to flight in pleasant plight—
I am an Optimist!
I always strive with eager zest
To never have a care,
And always do my level best
No others’ grief to share ;
But if the whiners come my way
I always bid them “ Hist!
My view of life is always gay—
lam an Optimist! ”
QUEENSLAND.
F.B.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, March 4, 1911.
My Dear Thargomindah,—
Your Mario has often looked with longing eyes
at the charming strip of green turf at the back of
the Legislative Assembly House, and pictured to
herself how well it would fid in as a background to
a well-run tea fight. The same idea seems to have
struck Mrs. Holmes A’Court, and last week she
planted there half a hundred small, rose-decked
tables and three times as many folk to sit at them,
stationed a “ Made in Germany ” Band in the
hinterland, laid in a large stock of ice creams and
sweets, and the thing was done. Everyone who
was anybody went along and shook daughter
Gladys good-bye. The farewelled will leave in a
fortnight’s time for America, there to wed a
cousin. Mrs. A’Court said “how-de-do” in a
black and white striped grenadine gown, and
Miss Gladys was in ivory crepe. The very latest
bride, Mrs. Carl Palmer, shone in a French con-
fection and a fringed tile ; and a pretty maid from
Melbourne, Miss Davidson, who came with Mrs.
Jopp, made many conquests.
Miss Dorothy Brockway (whose doctor-father,
by the way, has written a new book to follow the
readable “Castle Cavarkas”) has returned from a
three-years’ visit to the land of fogs. Most of
that time she put in at the Southport College of
physical training, odd time being given over to
study in the Big Smoke itself ; and she is now
prepared to teach the local infant how to enlarge
a chest and broaden a back and grow up a solid,
straight Australian. To watch the young lady
skip and heave clubs one would imagine she was
like the American canvasser : “ One-haff caaper
wire and one haff fiddle-string.”
Celia Ghiloni, in emerald green clothes, hit
Brisbane in its most hittable eye on Tuesday, and
before it could recover itself Hugh Ward had
jumped upon it, disguised as the Professor in
“Rector’s.” Palotta’s gowns and the Judge in
buttons were the next two most popular things
in the effervescence, which was suspected of being
something shocking, but which in reality
shouldn’t hit the genus Wowser half so heavily as
the “ Waltz Dream,” over which he entirely
neglected to bleat.
Talking of the profession, Miss Tempe Pigott
is here on a very brief holiday, after six months
in the country managed for Cohen by Joseph
Ward. She waxes eloquent over the “happy
family ” air which fittingly pervaded the “ Lover’s
Lane ” Co. This week she will be in Sydney to
rejoin the co. for the Palace season.
Brisbane is to have the first look at the Hawaiian
singers, instrumentalists and “Hula” dancers,
whom Harold Ashton discovered on his way back
from America. In its native undress, the “Hula”
is said to be (and my informant was speaking first-
hand) a measure to which it would not be advis-
able to take a Young Women’s Guild of Christian
Helpers; but it has had clothes hung round it so
that the comment of the Y.W.G.C.H. may be
turned aside.
A returned tripper wails to me of the discom-
fort of travelling overland by the Sydney-bound
mail train. The 27 hours’ journey is bad enough in
itself, but it is made even more depressing by the
failure ohi the part of the management to make
those small improvements in the service which
mean so much to exhausted all-nighters. I can’t
say how much justice is in the complaint, but the
great and increasing number of people who travel
by boat would seem to give it some support.
So glad you liked the cultivated voice of Miss
Lena Hammond in the “ Elijah.” She was bred
in Brisbane, and comes of a singing family ; but
she is one of those quiet, hard-working people,
apt to be overlooked when limelight is being
served out. What that girl wants is a good,
healthy trumpeter, with twin-screw wind-power.
Mention of trumpeters naturally turns my mind
in a military direction, and reminds me that
Brisbane has another Lieut.-Colonel on its list in
the person of the energetic Hubert Harris, who
commanded one or two Australian contingents
during the Chovvth African war, which General
Buller’s announced book promises to make more
smeilful than ever. In his spare moments H. H.
is the busiest man alive; what he must be like
when he is busy I tremble to think.
Constable Burke, of Brisbane, a John (both
by profession and by christening), has been
singled out by George V. for a King’s
Police Medal. The valiant officer grappled
with a desperado who was shooting wild
and free in the merry town of Croydon. Unfor-
tunately, he did not get in quickly enough to save
the marked-up victim of the man with the gun,
but he did his best, and, when it came to the
royal ears, their owner said : “ It’s good enough
for me.” So the medal’s on its road.
Elaine Feez, with the musical fingers and Titian
hair, departed from Sydney last week, intending
to pick up more music made in Germany. Arrived
in the land which is blessed with two Providences,
the other one having the front name of Bill, she
will, I hear, be received into the family of her old
master as a lamb which has strayed awhile.
Two returnees of note are the Slades, mother
and daughter. That is to say, they haven’t struck
this city as yet; but a pal ran into them at the
Australia, looking bonnie after a lovely time in
Egypt. There will be joy in more than one gal-
lant uniform-covered breast when they do reach
Pinkenba once more.
On “ the very best ” authority, Thargomindah,
my dear, I am informed that July will see us
with a new military commandant, as Col. Lyster
is to retire. Who the new man will be, goodness
alone knows. But if Providence could see a way
to give us some 1 hing young and dashing—well,
we would be grateful, that’s all.
G. W. Gray, who sits in the elderly Legislative
House, and is a good sport, is in your city this
week, watching the Springboks trying to scoop up
what is left of the ashes with a cricket bat.
Mrs. Gray is with him at the Australia, where, I
hear, Premieress Denham, with her daughters,
will be discoverable in a few days’ time.
Among the other Queenslanders at your harbor
side are Mrs. George Munro, Mrs. Lex Craig
(who will return to us by the Otway on the 20tli),
and the Ernest Baynes women-folk, who still
linger in the blue mists of the Fly Mountains.
Yours affectionately,
MARIO.
Dr. D. F. Macdonald, who fought the
cause of a White Australia in the “blackest”
district of Bananaland, and carried out original
research work in regard to the causes of the earth-
hunger disease, passed out recently in Liberia,
W. Africa.


THE HILL END GOLD MINES.
The Story of the Great Amalgamation at Hawkins Hill.
• . V** * o’
An Interview with Scantiebury by Jeffries.
The story of Hawkins Hill is a fascinating
one. The first of New South Wales’ quartz
fields, it flung fortunes in the faces of its
pioneers for single crushings. Breaking out
stuff for the mill, the miners frequently
came on what was almost solid gold, or
hunks of gold slightly adulterated by frag-
ments of quartz. Men went on to the field
destitute of even blankets, and in a few
months rooted out fortunes. There has been
no field on earth like it. Fortune herself
was never more capricious. And when the
men who had taken tons of gold out of
claims barely large enough to decently bury
themselves in, sold their mines, for what in
those days were fabulous sums, to com-
panies, the gold did what they called “gave
out.” That is to say, it dropped to a few
ounces per ton, and then the people who
had been accustomed to playing with masses
of gold, and to making fortunes in a few
months, disgustedly faded away. Scattered
over the area known as Hawkins Hill were
170 gold mines, and the field was like Eng-
land in the days of the Heptarchy. No
Egbert appeared to consolidate it, and it
faded right out of the list of the world’s
great gold fields, after having done prob-
ably more than any other field on earth to
establish the gold supremacy of Britain at
a time when the wealth of plundered India
had been squandered; and helped to make
Australia known the world over as a land
where gold could be found in solid masses.
And what has been done on that ancient
field is an alluring story. Two years ago I
met Scantlebury, gripsack in hand, on the
railway station. “Where to?” “Hill End.
A fine book for you some day,” he laughed
as he dashed for the train.
Night after night he talked of this
bewildering Tom Tiddler’s Ground, and ex-
pressed his belief that there was almost un-
limited gold there yet for the seeking. And
he talked of the difficulties, of all the con-
flicting interests that still, ghostlike,
haunted the dead El Dorado. He battled on
bravely, making explorations, crush mgs, and
working heroically to bring about an amal-
gamation. The trouble was that on Hill End
there was a wonderful belief in the place.
The wealth of Croesus was hidden away
there. Some day must be found, and he
would hang on, spite of fate, till that great
day of discoverey and fortune came. And
it was against this blind faith that Scantle-
bury battled. Against this fanaticism he
could bring only cold logic, and the possi-;
bility of getting the public to supply the
money for a further investigation of the
field. And now, impossible as it seemed
right up to a few weeks ago, he has man-
aged to bring about the consolidation that
alone can restore the field to its ancient
glory, and, who knows, discover a Golden
Mile in New South Wales.
Then he launched his prospectus. All
conflicting claims have been adjusted,
and are offered to the public under the name
of Hill End Amalgamated. It rests with
the public to say whether work shall go on
or not. Many queries have been made as to
why this great achievement had not been
carried out before, and I went and asked
him a number of “whys,” and this is what
he said:
“Twenty acres of the 93 acres now offered
to the public produced over a ton of gold to
the acre, and I shall not have to live many
years to see it produce another ton to the
acre; for it produced over 20 tons of gold
within 400 feet of the surface. And if
there are not tons of gold still left above as
well as below the 400 feet, I am a mining
fool —one of the biggest in Australia. And
that is saying a lot.
“Remember the surface area of Hawkins
Hill is only half worked. Look at the
plan. It does not require any mining
knowledge to see that the eastern boundary
of the 23 little claims occupying less than
25 acres ended just before the crown of
Hawkins Hill is reached. Also, that though
a few rich specimens were found by one
Bill Adams on the surface, the reefs were
invariably poor, and it was not until Carroll
and Beard reached 80 feet that any rich
gold appeared in the reefs. And it was
only then that the rest of the claim holders
went hammer and tongs down. Hence the
little rush because of Bill Adams’s Sunday
morning find early in ’69 did not develop
into a big rush until over a year. Mean-
while the leasing system was adopted and
the crown of Hawkins Hill, as well as the
eastern slope of it, was occupied by a num-
ber of 5 and 10 acre gold leases. Several
tunnels were started to intercept these
other surface reefs at from 500 to 750 feet
below the crown of the hill.
“The rock on that side is very dense, so
progress was slow, and so, although several
thousand feet were driven, not one tunnel
was carried into the defined auriferous
channel, consequently all the reefs, and
there were many of them, beyond the east-
ern boundary of the famous Hawkins Hill
claims, which reefs were equally poor on
the surface, remained in their virgin state.
“Now, that is a serious statement to
make, but it is made deliberately, and with
knowledge aforethought. Had one of the
tunnels been continued from the eastern base
of Hawkins Hill, these reefs would have
all been cut within 1500 feet, and another
500 to 1000 feet would have intersected all
the reefs worked in Krohmans, Beyers and
Holtermann’s, Paxton’s and other claims at
700 to 800 feet, or 300 to 400 feet lower
than they have ever been worked.
“So here we have a field, the richest in
Australia, lying derelict and dormant, with
only one-half of its surface area touched,
and I most solemnly declare that there is
no other gold field in Australia with such
a record remaining in such a condition.
That is a stigma on N.S.W. mining intelli-
gence and enterprise which with the public
help is going to be removed. Dead Haw-
kins Hill, as sure as I’m alive, is going to
be revived, and will produce many more
tons of gold, and will continue its great
gold production many years after I am
dead.”
* * * *
This sweeping and emphatic statement
moved me to ask some questions.
“Can you say why this amazing field has
remained ‘derelict and dormant’ all this
time? In fact, there are several ‘Whys’
that I wish to put to you.”
He replied: “Well, to your first. Be-
cause of the absence of the consolidation
which it has taken me more than a year to
bring about.”
“Well, why didn’t amalgamation take
place while the claims were rich?”
“Of all times that is when it is most im-
possible, simply because they are rich. Re-
member, they were not equally rich, neither
were they simultaneously so. I remember
when I was working in the Bendigo mines
it took ten years, to amalgamate four
claims on one line of reef. Mines are never
amalgamated when they are rich. How
many years ago is it since they first talked
about amalgamation of Broken Hill? I re-
member writing in The Bulletin about it.
And yet, athough the benefits-of amalgama-
tion are as patent there as elsewhere, not a
single amalgamation has taken place. Ten
years ago it was proposed to amalgamate
all the mines in the Golden Mile, Kalgoor-
lie, and only one has been brought about,
namely, the Oroya with the Brownhill.
“Producing mines also produce vested and
conflicting interests, and while these exist
adjustment .of values for amalgamation is
impossible. When they become poor they
lean towards each other. And I stepped
into the breach at Hill End when that camp
had reached its most pathetic starvation
stage. Had I gone before, like others, I
would have failed.”
“Well, why were they not amalgamated
when the famous bonanzas gave out ?”
“Here’s the answer, from ‘Gold Mines and
Mining in Hawkins Hill,’ published 1880.
‘lf the owners of the small claims between
the Star of Peace and Krohman’s could
safely surrender their titles so as to work
the area by one company, capital would be
forthcoming.’ Up to that time and for
some years afterwards N.S.W. Mining Law
compelled the giving up of one title before
another for a larger area could be ob-
tained, and, as it gave no preference, each
one had to take his luck in a new gamble.
Consequently, no one would take the risk,”
“Well, why on earth weren’t they amal-
gamated when this fool law was changed?”
“Well, many attempts were made. The
Nitrate King, Colonel North, of Chilian
fame, sent his representative to the field
specially for the purpose; and prepared to
pay a lot of money. But not as much as
the owners were prepared to ask. Also,
there was such a number of them that what
seemed a modest price became a ruinous
one by reason of the multiplicity. Harry
Newman, of Lucknow, secured a number of
the claims for £70,000 cash and would
probably have brought about the amalga-
mation and floated a company in London to
work the field but for the death of the
Duke of Manchester, who had visited ’.lie
field when the scheme was inaugurated.”
“And why were they not amalgamated
when the Government subsidy of £30,000
was proposed?”
“Simply because of the subsidy. It
might have been done before, but not after-
wards. As Government Geologist Pittman n
says: ‘Hawkins Hill can only be success-
fully worked by a powerful company, as the
necessary operations require a very consid-
erable amount of capital, and the subscrib-
ing of the capital would only be warranted
by the possession of titles to a considerable
area of land.’ ”
“Well, after all, why was not work con-
tinued without amalgamation? There must
have been some gold about?”
“Make no mistake, it would have been had
the rich gold remained. But it didn’t.
Let me try to picture to you the transfor-
mation that took place. Krohman, ac-
cording to translations I have had made
from his German diary, had been raking
out gold at the rate of from 100 to 1000
ounces per ton for several crushings. Then he
sold his claim for 80,000 sovereigns, and
went back, and at the first crushing he pro-
duced for his shareholders a ton of gold,
worth £95,000, and paid his shareholders ±1
per share dividend. It was the first, and,
as far as I know, the last. Beyers and
Holterniann sold their mine for £70,000,
and from a 16,000 ounce crushing
tney paid a 75 per cent. dividend.
But I can find no record of any other.
‘.Northumberland Jimmy’ got two tons
of gold out of the smallest claim on
the field, and then sold to a company, but
I can find no record of that company pay-
ing any dividend. These things made
men mad. All sorts of companies were
floated. Amalgamation was never dreamed
of —more probably people considered the
advisability of cutting Paxton’s 125 feet
claim into four or five, after two tons pro-
duced 4200 ounces. The reefs without a
single exception remained, and can be seen
to-day. No change of country came in, but
a mighty change of richness. The gold
did not entirely disappear. But it dropped
from many ounces per ton to less dwts.
‘Such a falling off was there!’ Think of
the moral effect on these people who had
been accustomed to hearing of tons of gold
being cleaned up. One instance: A
report of 1872. ‘Great disappointment is
felt at Beyers and Holtermann’s last crush-
ing only going seven ounces to the ton. It
is a mistake to anticipate large yields
when comparatively inferior stuff is being
put through.’ Seven ounces to the ton,
and they are greatly disappointed! There
was disruption, chaos, if you like, but not
amalgamation.”
“Well, why is so much money—£7o,ooo —
It’s a tremendous swag.”
“Well, I’m hopeful that it won’t be
wanted. But it’s better to have too much
than too little. You can’t mine without
money, but that has been tried too often
in this country. If less than half this
money is required, the money will not be
wasted. There will be no extravagance or
whste if I can help it. But it will be
there if it is required.”
“And what are the chief aims of this
amalgamation ?”
“To work Hawkins Hill as one great
mine,-instead of the 170 which once occu-
pied it. Just as the large areas were a
good thing for the squatters in the old days
when population was scarce, so closer settle-
ment on Hawkins Hill in those days was
excellent, but large areas are wanted at
Hawkins Hill to-day.”
“Give your reasons.”
“Every tunnel site can be availed of.
The little claims were compelled to work
with shafts. So they sank over 50 of
them, and altogether they did enough sink-
ing to have gone down to 4000 feet instead
of 400, had it been confined to three shafts.
They did enough tunnelling to pierce Haw-
kins Hill from one end to the other, and
from one side to the other, had it been
confined to two tunnels instead of 20. So
the tunnelling was in vain, but the drives
are there waiting to be extended now the
ground is in possession of one company.
This company will of course have its own
stamp mill and other equipment. In the
old days the claim owners were dependent
on public batteries. I assume that
they had over 100 managers. Think
of the offices, secretaries, etc., they
had to keep up, and the 40 pubs (24 on the
road to Bathurst), all had to be maintained
out of the mines. There were seven hotels
there right up against the shafts on the
crown of the ridge, bleeding it.”
“Now, I want to ask you this. These
are worked-out mines. Now, WHAT HAS
BEEN LEFT?”
“To start with, the worked stopes are
full of mullock, many thousands of tons of
it, and 2000 tons crushed an average of
6 dwts. There is a big dump remaining
on the surface. Many years ago a bat-
tery was worn out crushing over 30,000 tons
of it. What it went I don’t know, but I
do know that men are making a living on
it to-day, and have been doing so for up-
wards of 20 years And no man can
make a living by culling and dollying a
mullock dump without leaving enough gold
behind to pay for crushing it It is exactly
the same as with the dredging areas all over
Australia and the world. It was the cus-
tom for children to watch for the tipping
of the mullock, whereupon they would
scramble over the heap for specimens. So
that if the mullock on the surface which
has been so impoverished is still good
enough to crush, then-the chances are that
there are dividends in that below, and the
2000 tons crushed is proof of it.
‘Then tnere are big ore faces left Bear
in mind that up to the last few years it was
impossible to get at these because all the
working shafts had fallen in. Access has
now been given by the Consolidated Tunnel,
and during last year several old
levels and workings have been cleaned out.
You can see the faces at Beyers and
Holtermann’s, Kroliman’s and Paxton’s, and
other reefs and formations which were too
poor to work in the 70’s, and consequently
abandoned after some hundred feet dt de-
velopment and prospecting work on them
had been done. They were too low grade
to pay, but the low-grade proposition of
the 70’s all the gold-mining world over, is
the high-grade proposition of to-day. These
faces have been sampled by bulk crushings,
the lowest of which was 12dwts. to the
ton, and the average has been an ounce.
Another cleaning up will take place at the
end of this week, and I saw the stuff in
the battery paddock ten days ago, and I’ll
wager that it will go over an ounce to the
ton. I have satisfied myself beyond the
shadow of a possible doubt that these aban-
doned faces will pay to work to-day.”
“What about the chance of the recur-
rence of bonanzas?”
“We’re not building on that. This is
not an off-chance proposition, but, if I take
Bendigo, where I worked for years as a
miner, as a guide, there is every prospect oi
their recurrence. Why, 25 feet below the
tunnel level last year the most easterly
worked vein became enricned. Three
crushings averaged 10 ounces to the ton. I
don’t go much on it, because the vein
is small —very small. But it is evidence
that the high-grade ore is likely to recur at
any time. Had the Bendigo mines stopped
at their 300 to 500 feet poor zone, there
would have been no Bendigo to-day, and had
the same conditions there existed they
would have stopped.
“No doubt the intersection of these reefs
by ‘indicators or droppers’ accounted for
their phenomenal richness in the vicinity of
contact. These ‘droppers’ did not confine
themselves to one reef; they passed through
one to the other, therefore each was rich in
turn. If that is their general nature there
are several reefs that have not been inter-
sected, and the untouched reefs to the east
must be intersected at higher levels. To
illustrate: The Hawkins Hill reefs have
an easterly underlay of from one in four to
six feet. The ‘droppers’ have a similar
underlay in an opposite direction. Now
the reefs and ‘droppers’ are contained in
an auriferous channel several hundred feet
wide, so that the intersection that would
take place in one reef on the eastern side
of the channel would be several hundred
feet above the intersection of the reef to-
wards the west. In some cases intersec-
tion has taken place, and it only remains
for development to prove what effect con-
tact has on other reefs.”
“Have any rich deposits been missed?”
“I do not know, but should think so. I
remember some old working being exposed
in a deep gorge at Hillgrove by a tremen-
dous landslip, shewing how antimony de-
posits had been missed by a few feet. If it
were possible to open the old claim on Haw-
kins Hill like the pages of a book, undoubt-
edly some missed bonanzas would be ex-
posed.”
“What do you propose to do in the way
of prospecting, development, and equip-
ment ?”
“To keep the present battery running to
sample the different faces exposed, also on
the mullock dumps as well as that in the
stopes, and to erect a big battery when war-
ranted by the sampling done by the little
one. To thoroughly clean out old levels, and
to expose other faces of stone. To extend
the present tunnel further east, to intersect
other reefs known to exist in that direction.
To start a deeper level tunnel, and to clean
out the Star of Peace shaft, and to do some
prospecting at the bottom.”
“In what ways does Hill End resemble
other great Australian goldfields?”
“In many ways. In all producing gold-
fields such as Bendigo, Ballarat, Charters
Towers, Gympie and others permanent gold
is invariably associated with other metals
and minerals, such as galena, graphite,
plumbago, mica, black, greasy lava slates.
And we have them all in the mines of Haw-
kins Hill. It is almost a replica of Ben-
digo in its surface geological features. It
is the only place I know of in N.S.W.
where you have a wide auriferous
channel containing several different lines of
reefs, and distinct formations extending
over miles.”
“And what are your chances of pulling
this through—how is the money coming
in?”
“Not so rapidly as I would like. But we
are receiving share applications from all
over New South Wales. Queensland has
made a start. I anticipate Westralia will
this week. Victoria and South Australia
would but for their Chaffinch debacle. The
applications are numerous enough if thev
were big enough. It looks as if
we will have to get 2000 shareholders
before the list is filled. What I would
like to conclude with is this: If 10 per
cent, of The Bulletin readers of this inter-
view will subscribe for an average of only
100 shares each, the issue of 400,000 shares
will be accomplished. And I would like
you to advertise the application form below
this yarn, so that it will be ready for every
reader who wants to become a Hill End
Amalgamated shareholder.”
FORM OF APPLICATION FOR SHARES,
To the Secretary, Amalgamated Hill End, Limited, Equitable Building, Sydney.
I hereby apply for shares in the above-named Company on the terms of the Company's Prospectus,
dated the 23rd day of February, 1911, and I hereby agree to accept the same (or any smaller number that may be
allotted to me), and to pay the balance of two shillings per share on allotment, and I authorise you to register me as the
holder of the said shares. I enclose £ being the application money of two shillings per share for the shares
applied for by me.
Name (in full)
Address (in full)
Profession or Business
Signature
Date
.IQTI.
Use this form, or write, or wire for Full Prospectus and Plan to The Secretary Amalgamated Hill End, Ltd., Equitable Building, Sydney.


Of SKIN TORTURE
Slight Red Eruption Grew to be
Terrible —Sleepless Nights and
Restless Days Made Life a Burden
—Was Completely Discouraged.
CUTICURA CURED AFTER
16 YEARS OF SUFFERING
“For sixteen long years I have been
suffering with r. bad case of skin dis-
ease. While a child
there broke out a red
sore on the legs just
in back of my knees,
caused by a tight, col-
ored garter. At first
it seemed to be a
slight affair but grad-
ually it waxed from
bad to worse, and at
last I saw I had a bad
skin disease. I tried
many house remedies
and also many widely
known doctors in dif-
ferent cities but to no satisfactory result.
The plague bothered me more in warm
weather than in winter and being on my
leg joints it made it impossible for me
to walk, and I was forced to stay indoors
in the warmest weather.
“My hopes of recovery were by this
time spent. Sleepless nights and rest-
less days made life an unbearable bur-
den. At last I was advised to try the
Cuticura Remedies and I did not need
more than a trial to convince me that
I was on the road of success this time.
I bought two sets of the Cuticura Rem-
edies (Cuticura Soap, Ointment and
Pills) and after these were gone I was
a different man entirely. The Cuticura
Remedies certainly did a great deal for
me, as it changed my wholo career from
bad to good. I am now the happiest
man that there is at least one true cure
for skin diseases. Leonard A. Hawtof,
II Nostrand Ave., Brooklyn, N. Y.,
U. S. A., July 30 and Aug. 8, 1909.”
Reference: R. Towns & Co., Sydney.
Cuticura is the most economical treat-
ment known for torturing, disfiguring
affections of the skin, scalp and hair of
infants, children and adults. A single
tablet of Cuticura Soap and box of Cuti-
cura Ointment are often sufficient to cure.
Sold throughout the world. Depots: London, 27,
Charterhouse Sq.; Paris, 10, Rue de la Chaussee
d’Antin; Australia, R. Towns & Co., Sydney; India,
B. K. Paul, Calcutta; So. Africa, Lennon, Ltd., Cap»
Town, etc.: U. S. A., Potter Drug & Chem. Corp,
Sole Props., Boston.
«iPPost-free, 32-page book," How to Cure the Skin."
AN EMPEROR S APPRECIATION.
The Emperor of Austria has conferred a unique
distinction, as also has the Vienna Chamber of
Science conferred its highest award, upon Dr.
Scheuble, of Vienna, for his discovery of
“Samol,” a treatment for Rheumatism, Gout,
Lumbago, Sciatica, and kindred ailments. So
effective is this treatment that pain is relieved
within a few seconds of its application, and the
poisonous causes of these ailments rapidly
neutralised and eliminated.
As soon as the necessary arrangements can be
made, “Samol” will be obtainable from all chem-
ists ; in the meanwhile, in order to allow sufferers
to test the efficacy of this great discovery, it can
be obtained, price 3/9 and G/- per tube, post free,
from the representative of Dr. Scheuble—H. A.
Goddard, Eagle St., Brisbane ; or H. A. Goddard,
194 Vickery’s Chambers, Pitt St., Sydney. [1
Free i» Smokers!
Mr. R. J. Hinton, Jerrara Creek, Marulan,
N.S.W., writes: —
“It gives me great pleasure to inform you that I
have been completely cured of the Tobacco
Habit by your wonderful Tobacco Specific, after
using tobacco heavily for seven years, sometimes
Boz. to lOoz. in the week. It is now 12 months
since I last used tobacco, and, although I am con-
tinually in the company of smokers, I do not have
r.lte least desire to smoke, therefore I consider
the cure permanent.
“My general health is now perfect; all my
former complaints, such as irregular Heart
Action, Dizziness, Nervousness and Stomach
Trouble, which I have every reason to believe
were ; cajjsed through the use of tobacco, have en-
tirely disappeared, and are only remembered as a
hideous nightmare. I eat and sleep well, and feel
fit to face the world again. It will give me great
pleasure to recommend your remedy to others.”
FREE SAMPLE.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you a FREE
SAMPLE of Tobacco Specific, also Booklet, Testi-
monials, etc.
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
DEPT. Q, VICTORIA ARCADE, SYDNEY. 0
£1573(18/9
at a penny a smile, the cash value
of y .°. a . The Wayback Series.
BEAUTY’S FIRST STEP
Mrs. Wentworth-Lang, the well-known Beauty
Specialist, says
“if you wou:d be beautiful, you must be
healthy ; to be bright and healthy, your bodily
functions mu3t be regular. Take, whenever
you feel you need it, a Laxatine Lozenge.
LAXATINE
will cleanse your system, without Interfering
with either your work or your pleasure.”
All Chemists and Storekeepers, 1/- box.
[1
A BEAUTIFUL FOOT ....
Makes a Woman Attractive.
Ladies know what a stylish, well-shod foot means.
A smart shoe tones up the entire costume and
stamps the wearer as being well dressed.
We keep our fingers on the pulse of every depend-
able source of shoe supply in the world, and
gather in the best styles as soon as produced.
The Shoe illustrated is one of the newest
and neatest models, and is reasonable
in price, being quoted at 16/6.
Price 16/6
LEEMING’S BOOT STORES,
109 Swanston Street, Melbourne; 257=259 Bourke Street, Melbourne;
303 Chapel Street, Prahran; I=3 Errol Street, North Melbourne. [ Q
I
\
r".
I V///'
At THE TARRANT,
MELBOURNE.
WE WANT MORE ROOM-MORE FLOOR
SPACE.
PRESENT CARS MUST 00 TO MAKE
WAY FOR NEW SHIPMENTS.
Late Models
at LOW
PRICES—
28/35 Fiat
20-h.p. Rover
Our Slightly Used
Car Department.
10/12-h.p. Aster, single seater - £lO5
6-h.p.DeDions, single seaters,£loo to £llO
12/14-h.p. Argyll, five seater - £lB5
70-h.p. Mercedes, five seater - £450
15-h.p. Ford, single seater- - £ll5
10/12-h.p. F.N., single seater - £295
20-h.p. Ford, five seater - - £220
Write To-day for full particulars.
TARRANT MOTOR CO.,
108 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Cigarette Smokers
Ruined.
Fearful Death List amongst Young Men l
The death-list caused by excessive smok-
ing of tobacco and cigarettes is an appalling
one in Australia, where men in thousands
become nervous and commercially-useless
wrecks.
Daily the sacrifice of human wrecks goes
on, the certain system of slow poisoning by
nicotine being proved by the yearly death-
list. Nicotine is one of the deadliest pois-
ons known to science, and no man can be
healthy whose blood is steeped in it. The
nervous system must suffer, as well as the
heart, liver, lungs and brain.
Would You Like To Eo Strong-?
You can soon overcome the habit or vice
of smoking and eradicate every trace of the
poison from your blood by taking a course
of “ SMOKURE” Tablets, the great French
specific and nicotine antidote. This re-
markable remedy restores nerve and heart
strength, makes the brain and body vigor-
ous, Send stamps to
THE NICOTO-MANIA TABLET CO.,
75 Wentworth Court, Elizabeth St., Sydney,
for free particulars sent to iany address.
The'Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
in aw since 1596.
CURBS
Austral'an Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist foritshistory—the book is free—or write
S- GREEN, 210. Lambeth Hoad, London, Eng.
JMINE MANAGER. —Wanted competent Man, to take
* * charge. Hands at present employed, 60 to 70. Appli-
cant must have a good knowledge of concentratimrsilver-
lead ores. Good residence adjoining mine. Applications
must be accompanied by copies only of testimonials
Mine Manager, Box 1499, G. P. 0., Sydney.
IT FILLS ITSELF
If you use an Onoto
Pen, there’ll be no
filler to break or lose—
because the Onoto fills
itself in a flash. It
cannot leak. Suits
every hand and eveiy
style of writing. It is
perfection and it is
British made. Get one
to-day and use it.
It costs 12/- and up-
wards at all stationers,
jewellers and stores.
Booklet about it free
from the makers,
THOS DE La RtJE <fc CO., Ltd , 381 Bunhill Row,
London, E.C., or the Australasian Representa-
tive, Norman Baker, 50 York Street, Sydney,
Onoto
Self-Filling - -
Safety Fountain M A
Important.— For those who require a larger
pen with a very flexible nib, a special model —
the new G—has been put on the market. It is
exceptional value for the money. Try this
new G at your stationer’s. Also ask him for
Onoto Ink, the best for fountain and all
other pens.
THREE WITCHES
CIGARETTES.
tfORRISS l
hree Witches
vtaffto
10
for
Hade
HIGHEST GRADE.
5s per 100, Post Free.
MICK SIMMONS, SYDNEY.
Storekeepers and Tobacconists should
send for our Trade Lists.
it
Pot Pourri”
stands
for
Quality
“POT FOURBI ” Cigarettes.— The
highest grade obtainable, at 6d. per
packet of 10 ; 4/6 per 100.
“POT POUKRI” Cigars.— A fragrant
smoke — 3d. each; 5 for 1/-; 18/6 per 100.
“POT POURRI” Tobacco— 4oz. tins,
2/- ; Boz. tins, 4/- ; 8/- per lb. There is
none better than this—it is the BEST.
“POT POURRI” Pipes, Silver-
mounted, superior quality, all shapes,
2/6 each.
If not procurable at your own Tobacconist’s, call
or write for catalogue to
A. A. MARKS,
Sole Agent, George St.,
Sydney, N.S.W.
EDWARD FAY,
THe Big*
Boot Block.
We carry one of the Largest Stocks In N.S.W. of English Boots, and guarantee them
to be the latest Styles from Leading Makers.
A SK our Salesman all about our
/v “ Dreadnought” Soles. They
will outlast three ordinary soles.
Cent’s, 1/9 ; Ladies’, 1/6 Pair.
(B. 132)
The Bostock i
Boot, ZIF
Ladies should see our American
Shoes. They are the daintiest wear
in Sydney.
"TUE BOSTOCK make is known all
1 over the world, and needs little
describing. It is a Boot made to
wear, and built from the finest
materials. We can recommend it.
Sold by some stores at 25/-
Country Orders will
receive prompt atten-
tion. Just state the
size required and
shape. You can
rely upon our
selection.
Corner PITT 2 LIVERPOOL STREETS, 2 at 716 GEORGE STREET, HAYMARKET, SYDNEY
The Inky Way.
When tlie last English mail left, still another paper for
the enlightenment of J. Bull with regard to Australia was
breaking out of the shell. The new chick is ta be called
the Australasian News, and is to appeal to the intending
emigrant at a ha'penny a time.
“ Eryander ” : The dignified-looking but clums3 T Roman
notation is gradually dying the death of the superfluous
—even for monumental purposes. The maximum of cum-
brousness was reached with ISBB—MDOCCLXXXVIII.
With 1900 we came down (or should have come down) to
MOM. That is, M = 1000 ; CM = 1000 less 100 = 900. Hence,
the correct notation of the present year of grace is
MOMXI, and not, as I observe it rendered on the title-
pqge of some official books, MDOCCOXI.
“Ivanhoe ”: “ Penman ” (B. 12/l/’ll) utters a melodra-
matic wail about the “ white-chokered blackleg ” in the
inkslingers’ camp. Why should a man be damned in this
way because he happens to be a parson ? Lawyers,
doctors, travellers, school-teachers and many others can
turn an honest penny by a little scribbling; but if a
parson, who doesn’t draw anything like as g'ood a salary,
tries to do the same, “ Penman ” and his kind fall upon
him with loud shrieks. Why shouldn’t a parson write if
he can? I have known more than one parson-contributor
to The Bulletin. At his best, James llebblethwaite was
amongst the most gifted versifiers that the Red Paper
ever knew. If “Penman” finds that the parson writes
better than he does he needn’t get mad about it; let him
go and break stones or kill pigs or do something else that
he is fitted for.
* * * *
A new evening paper is projected for Hobart, in con-
nection with the Daily Post. The only evening sheet in
the island is the Tasmanian News, which, after 25 years
of battling for a more or less adequately buttered crust,
under several separate proprietors, finds itself tangled,
and is offering to sell itself to any ambitious youth who
aches to own a newspaper. But, so far, the ambitious
young man with the price of the paper’s redemption in
his fist, has not heaved in sight The trifling sum of
£4OOO would, it is said, about buy the show ; which
doesn’t seem a great deal to pay for a going concern like
an evening paper in a city of 40,000 inhabitants, most of
whom can read.
• * * *
Tasmanian Writers and Artists’ Union, wearv of
waiting for the settlement of the squabble between
the Melbourne and Sydney press gangs, has decided to go
ahead on its own. A scale of wages has been drawn up
for all men on daily paper staffs, from sub-editors to
copy-boys, and the proprietors are being asked to meet
the scribes in conference thereanent. The Union is
affiliated with the Tas. Trades and Labor Council, and
has for president Labor-member W. A. Woods, and for
secretary P. L. Griffiths, an ex-MEUCURY senior reporter,
who is at present trying to add to his M.A. and LL.B.
the right to be described as Gent One.
* * * *
“O. N. Lines": “Martin,” in his reply to a recent
paragraph of mine, says: “If he considers the stony
tracks of Sydney any easier for the free-lance writer to
travel than those of M.L. or Tasmania, he had betu r
forget it. Since perpetrating ‘ Übique, the Scientific
Bushranger’(a matter of 12 months or so ago), I have
earned about £2 journalistically." All I have to say to
“ Martin " is that, if he can’t earn more than £2 in 12
months on the ink road in Sydney, it is up to him to
carry the blame. I’ve got no brief for the bulk of the
Sydney publications as encouragers of stray literary
talent, but 10 and 20 times more money can be made in
Sydney than in the whole of M.L. and Tasmania put
together. I know men—more than one or six—who, on
lines, are making in Sj’dney from £3 to £5 a week easily.
This on the dailies; and probably none of those lines-
men would join the permanent staffs (although some
have had the opportunity), for the reason that
their conditions are much better as free-lances.
There are not too many senior staff men in Sydney receiv-
ing £6 a week, and less receiving £7 and £8; and
“ Martin ” can take it from a man who knows, that they
earn all they get. All hours look alike to the proprietors
of the big dailies as far as staffmen are con-
cerned ; roughly, it comes to seven days and
nights a week, starting about 10 a.in. and finish-
ing one side or the other of midnight—proba-
bly a year’s average would work out at 12
hours a day. But the linesman is different. He is not
at the beck and call of a nervous or cantankerous news
editor or chief reporter. When he drops his day’s work
into the sub-editorial lap he is finished. Night work is a
rare occurrence, and his average hours, counting his
search for copy, would not be more than seven per day.
One of the linesman’s difficulties in the past was to
keep his account down ; although I grant that that
difficulty has been considerably reduced within the
last couple of years. Not long ago linesmen on the
Sydney News were making up to £lO a week—two
nien in point being Claude McKay (now secretary to
J. O. Williamson) and E. J. Hill (now secretary to the
Public Service Association). Possibly “ Martin ’’ is refer-
ring to what we call “original manuscript” writers—
stories and verse —but that would hardly fit in with my
original statement, as is shown by the subsequent para-
graph of “N.0.T.0.N. Lines ” (B. 10/11/’10). In any case,
if an “original manuscript” writer cannot make more
than £2 a rear in Sydney, he ought to get busy—at
something else.
* * * *
“Rata Joe”: The rapidly-growing feeling amongst
Australian pressmen to arise and say things to the pro-
prietors ought to wake up the Maoriland Institute of
Journalists. Back ir. the old days when it started, it was
instrumental in obtaining for staff-men an annual holiday
of 14 days, since when it has done nix or even less. Its
constitution might have been framed at a conference of
bosses, so much does it seek to benefit.those thankless
persons, and so little does it hold out to the grafting
pressman. There are 10 clauses in the constitution;
seven of them are in the direct interest of employers, and
of the other three, only one is of faint importance.
Years ago a small section of members sought to drive the
association under the wing of the Conciliation and Arbi-
tration Act, and a leading barrister, who was then lion,
counsel, advised that it could be done by throwing over-
board proprietors, editors, leader-writers and such like
ornamentation, and forming a reporters’union. Such a
drastic course, however, was too dreadful to be thought
of by the majority ; besides, the employers would have
felt hurt. So the gentle Institute went its useless way,
stopping occasionally to pledge the toast of “Journalism,”
or —when the sound of salaries being sliced down reached
its ear—shaking its head mournfully, and shouting
“ Gadzooks ” in a whisper.
“X.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The cross marks the exact spot where the crime was
perpetrated. Vide evening paper.
This is the place where the deed was did ;
Where the new-laid corpse w>as vainly hid ;
Where John Dunns bold of its legs got hold,
And pulled it out from beneath the mould,
X!
This is the place where the squeal rang out,
When the victim stopped the well-aimed clout,
That knocked him flat on his own door-mat,
And smashed his skull and his black hard hat,
X!
This is the place where they dragged the pool,
Three feet from the bank (by a two-foot rule),
And found the clock, and the corpse’s sock,
And the poker, bent by the fatal knock.
XI
This is the place where the womenfolk
Of the neighborhood heard the silence broke
By such awful screams—since when, it seems,
They’ve heard the row in their troubled dreams.
XI
This is the place where we made the scoop,
And billed it big, with a large black whoop,
Re the corpse’s leer, in the moonlight clear ;
And the sorrowing undertaker’s tear.
X!!
This is the place where the clue was found,
That made the cops some suspects impound,
They’ve lumbered three, and are filled with glee—
For the rest, our late edition see !
XM!
N.S.W.
WIROMA.


'//■
0©
A Bag of Tricks.
Our great collection of Clever Tricks, Novelties and
Surprises offers worlds of fun. Full instructions with
each. Send f»-
v,; v
IS/ ' '
H
v
The Wonderful Plate Lifter.
Will make your friends’ plates and cups dance quite unex-
pectedly as they sit at meals. Worked imperceptibly from
the other end of the table. Shrieks of laughter. 1/- post free.
Marvellous
Multiplying
Ball.
Rapidly increases in
numb e r, and as
rapidly returns to
the one-ball state.
2/- post free.
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.
(H. L. HUTCHINSON LTD ),
710 George Street, Sydney; also
111 King Street 8 25-27 Oxford Street.
TWO MAUTIES
iMlil
V
to
l v %
£
a
Do
t~n
o
C>
o
? SX lIJ 01
s?
m oruY
TYRC J
BUILT 01Y
/CIEIWIC
priiacipleJ'
TfU
/ILVERTOW
RUBBER C
m GEORGE r
TYDEIEY
Model “T" Touring Oar, 4-cyl., 20-h.p., 5-passenger, £270 (full equipment included).
“FORDS” are without doubt the most suitable cars for Australian
conditions, and the following features will be at once recognised by
the man from the country as being absolute essentials :
1. Extra High Clearance.
2. Light Weight.
3. Plenty of Power (20-h.p.)
4. Easy on Tyres.
5. Cheapness of Maintenance.
6. Extreme Simplicity.
7. Vanadium Steel.
8. Cost (£270 complete).
9. Interchangeable Farts.
10. Reliability.
A large, full and complete set of SPARE PARTS is always kept in stock
in Sydney, which enables us to send by return mail any spare part required.
WRITE TO DEPT. B.
FORD MOTORS, 133-137 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
Are You a Surfer ?
If so, you should write at once for particulars of Brocks’
Surf Beach Estate, Mona Vale. This is one of the
finest surf-bathing properties around Sydney. The bath-
ing is especially safe, and nowhere is there a better beach.
We have a few beach frontages left which you ought to
inspect at your earliest opportunity. The Manly-Newport
Coach passes the Estate, and it has the added attractions
of splendid golf links and an up-to-date Hydro. Beach
frontages, 50ft., from 37/6 per foot; other blocks from
.£37. Terras, £1 down, and 10/- per month for every £3O
of purchase money. Torrens Title.
Write to-day for plan and full particulars to Dept. C.
ARTHUR RICKARD 8 CO., LTD.,
84 B PITT STREET, SYDNEY, Auctioneers 8 Realty Specialists.
75he BULLETIN POST CARDS
PACKET OF TWELVE 6d. PACKET CF TEN sd.
rr
SCIENCE
behind it !
PEBECO is a complete scientific health
course for the mouth and teeth.
7 .. Its alkaline properties correct the acidity of
the saliva, prevent bacterial inroads upon the
teeth and deodorise the breath. Pebeco imparts
a pearly whiteness, arrests decay, removes tartar
and, by invigorating the tissues, remedies shrinki
ing gums.
PEBECO
Tooth Paste
is highly antiseptic, and, if regularly used, pre-
vents many diseases of the mouth and throat.
Of all Chemists, etc.
Q ARNOLD, 6 O’Connell St., Sydney.
(Wholesale only.)
Few mem can strop a razor properly
—most men biting instead of sharp-
ening it The Gillette Razor needs
no stropping nor honing.
B’rltish made and sold everywhere. Write for •"‘Hints on
Shaving;** sent post free. Mention this paper.
GILLETTE. SAFETY RAZOR, Ltd., 17 Holbora Viaduct,
London, England.
Gillette
NO STROPPING NO HONING
Safety
Razor
The Best Ploug'h Shares
Money Can Buy
“ Anvil Brand Hard Steer ” Pfotigh
Shares have long since establisiiied ftheir
name for cheapness, thoroughness and
durability. None but the best qiuafi'ty
materials and most skilled laJxjr are
embodied in their manufacture. They
stand the strain of breaking new, hard
ground. The socket is far superior to
others—no rivets or studs to shake loose.
They are easily laid, cut clean, will not
break, save time and money. Full par-
ticulars free.
Price 4|* each.
EASILY LAID.
John Cooper U Sons,
287-9 ELIZABETH STREET,
MELBOURNE.
Will Anprape ~ BOOKS.
Plays,
Comedies,
Farces, etc.
The Largest St< ek in
Australasia.
Write for new PLAY
CATALOGUE,
also Supplementary Cata-
logue of FREE-ACTING
EDITIONS.
SPECIAL AGENT for
Samuel French, London,
and American Publishers.
Kelly Gang, True Story,
1/-. Book of Cow Tricks,
1/-. Wrestling, by Frank
Gotch, World’s Champion,
lOd. Gnu Thousand Ways
to Get Rich, 1/6. How Old
Mose Counted Eggs, and
115 other Recitations, 1/-.
Letter Writer, ]/-. Dr.
Foote’s Plain Home Cyclo-
paedia, latest edition, 1248
pages, 400 colored plates
and engravings, 7/6. Dr.
Faulkner’s Original Book
of Nature, the only genu-
ine and unabridged edi-
tion, 3 6, posted 4/-. Free-
masonry Explained, 1/3.
New Tricks with Cards,
1/-. How to Mesmerise, 1/-
m~AND ANY BOOK
YOU WANT.
Mention Tiie Bulletin.
CHEAP CONJURING TRICKS.
7 J
.
Marvellouslt SIMrLK t
Simply Marvellous !
Multiplying" and Van-
ishing- Billiard Balls,
Produced from no-
where, appearing at
word of coinmand be-
tween the fingers (see
illustration). Complktk
wrrn Full Instructions
(enabling the merest
amateur to perform it),
1/6 ; posted,2 -
Two-from-Five Card
Trick. Another start-
ler, introducing some-
thing quite new in
magic. Price 6d. ; post
free, Bd. ,
Tiir Above Two Tricks (which require no stige,
no confederates and no special skill), post free any-
where. with Illustrated Catalogue of Magic, 2,6.
Above prices include postage to any address. Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 Bourke St,, Melbourne
•v
*6.
SHAVE WITH A “PLUM.”
We sell the genuine “ PLUM ” Razor—the razor that never
drags, that cuts the roughest bristle and lea\es the skin
like velvet. We put the right edge on every “ PLUM ”
before you buy it, and guarantee to keep it in order
free for two years. Send for a “ PLUM ” to-day.
The “PLUM”
Post Free
Anywhere
The C. &A. Mous-
tacheTrainer
makes the mous-
tache a nice shape.
Worn at night.
2/6 post free.
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Handsome Case. 30/-
PLUM Razor, in Case, 10/6.
Pair in Case, 21/-
The Plum Razor Strop, 10/6 and 7/6
Other good kinds from 3/6 each.
Universal Shaving Soap, 6d.
Razoleo Lightning Sharpener, 6d.
All the above Post Pree.
We Crind and Set Razors, 1/* each.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
Established
30 Years.


The Australian medical brotherhood is
grieving that Frederick Treves, the great surgeon,
will not be at the big medical congress next
spring, as arranged. Treves himself is a patient,
and his medical advisers won’t let him come.
Grown weary of waiting for the Sydney
and Melbourne journalists’ unions to settle their
differences and get the all-Australian Union regis-
tered, the Tasmanian Writers and Artists’ Union
has presented the newspaper proprietors of
Hobart with a wage-scale, and has asked them to
give it their kind and early consideration. There
are indications that the claims will not be enthu-
siastically agreed to. and in the event of trouble
an attempt may be made to obtain “free labor”
horn outside the Island. But it is unlikely that any
pressman worth his salt will rush an invitation to
swoop down on the Tasmanian job of his brother-
scribe. The job is not much of a prize, anyhow,
and as the trippers and tourists have about used up
this season’s supply of the Speck’s summer climate,
there is very little in Tasmania to induce much
immigration at present. The Tas. W. and A.
. Union, being a straight-out industrial organisa-
’ tion, affiliated with the local Trades Council, is
looking for some assistance from other unions, in-
cluding the Typos. Linotypes are such highly in-
telligent and extremely sensitive machines nowa-
. days, that any attempt to feed them with
non-union “copy” might be resented.
Sir John Sinclair, of Caithness, the shocked
Scotchman who says Australia is the saddest
r country he has ever seen, betrayed his grim Cale-
donian concern right throughout the Common-
wealth tour of the Scottish Agricultural Com-
-4 mission. At one big farm, near Beeehworth
* (Vic.jSir John’s astonishment on finding the hands
still a-bed at 5.30 a.m. was so great that he could
eat no breakfast.
Dan O’Connor keeps turning up. When
last heard of he was going round to various ladies’
schools in England broguing about the bright
prospects, matrimonial and otherwise, which Aus-
tralia offers. Daniel’s silver oratory must have
an effect. Canada’s advertisement for 50,000
brides was a big enough thing in its way ; but
C mada hasn’t got a Dan O’Connor to talk its big
thing. Australia can anticipate a steady flow of
Entrlish beauty during the next few years.
Australian farmers and others have lost tens
of thousands of pounds this year through sprouting
in the bags—partly because of the excessive rains,
partly because of something else. In its effort to
protect the farmer the Commonwealth law pro-
vides that the standard wheat sack, besides being
of a certain size, shall weigh 2jlb. But the natural
villainy of the Indian jute manufacturer has led
him to, “load” his bags with a preparation of
cheap sago flour, so as to bring the flimsy material
up to the weight. This swindle is bad enough in
itself; but the worst of it is that sago flour acts as
a germinator and stimulates the growth of the
wheat roots. If the bags were manufactured in
Australia, under proper supervision, this disaster
would be avoided ; but the farmer fancies it pays
him to patronise the cheap black labor of India.
Now he is finding out that it doesn’t.
Missing; Friends.
Bennett, Robert ernest,
native of Mary! orough, Queensland. Tall
and muscular ; last heard of at Mount Chalmers
Copper Mine, near Rockhampton, Queensland,
about July, 1907.
Wanted by his brother WILLIE,
Railway Department,
Gympie, Queensland.
RICHARD WILLIAMS.
WILL RICHARD WILLIAMS, son of
William Williams, of Llanelly, Wales,
who came to Queensland about the year 1868,
and resided for some time in Cooktown, or any-
one knowing Ins whereabouts, please communicate
with Messrs. Thynne & Macartney, Solicitors,
Brisbane, at the earliest.
Business Announcements.
EDISON
S' i
S'
/
THE Edison Phonograph is the clearest,
sweetest, purest sound-reproducer extant.
Its fund of music, songs and stories is
unlimited. With eacli new record, whether it
be an air from a musical comedy, an excerpt
from grand opera, a lilting ballad, a lively waltz
or two-step by hand or orchestra, a comedy hit,
or an entertaining story, the Phonograph
becomes a new pleasure.
Call on the Edison dealer nearest you, and
hear for yourself the Edison Phonograph—the
pioneer and peer of all sound-reproducing in-
struments. If you do not know the address of
a dealer, write us and we will tell you, and also
send the latest lists of Edison Phonographs and
Records.
National Phonograph Co. of Australia, Ltd.,
(Wholesale only),
Dept. B, 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
Farmer’s Simplex
Bookkeeper. K2U o'V
Simplifies Land and Income Tax Returns, and
Keeps Your Business in Thorough Order.
1000 soTd E in A vv!a EADY Price 12/6, Posted 13/9.
E. S. WiggSSoiv Ltd., Perth
Also obtainable at Angus & Robertson, Sydney;
Watson, Ferguson & Co., Brisbane ;
Cole’s Arcade, Melbourne.
Amusements.
jy|AX MAXWELL’S DRAMATIC CO
KING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE,
TO-NIGHT at 8, and EACH EVENING,
“REVENGE.”
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee ami Manager: J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8 O’CLOCK,
Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON presents
VIA WIRELESS.
A Drama in Four Acts, bv Paul Armstrong and
Winehel Smith.
POWERFUL SCENES, SUPERBLY ACTED.
PLAN AT PAYING'S.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Lessee & Manager .. J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING at 7.45,
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY
OUR Ml S S GIBB S.
RESPLENDENT REVELRY, SENSATIONAL GOWN-
ING, GAY MUSIC and LOTS OF FUN.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Prices as usual.
pALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
SPENCER’S THEATRESCOPE CO.,
UNTIL FRIDAY, MARCH 10,
CHOICE GEMS AND RAPID CHANGES.
Prices as Usual. Plan at Paling’s.
RE-OPENING LYCEUM MATINEE, SAT., MARCH 11.
CRITERION THEATRE. SYDNEY.
Lessee: FRANK MUSGROVE,
CLARKE and MEYNELL PTY., LTD., SEASON.
A BRILLIANT SUCCESS,
THE CLARKE & MEYNELL COMIC OPERA CO.
—IN—
THE BELLE OE BRITTANY
MATINEE—WEDNESDAY, AT 2.
Box Plan at ELVY’S.
The glaciarium, Sydney.
Opposite Railway Station—Where all Id. trams stop.
BIGGER, BRIGHTER and BETTER THAN EVER
WEST’S PICT U RES,
“BEST OF ALL.”
Proprietors—Wests, Limited. Mgr. Dir. : T. J. Wkst.
DE GROEN’S VICE REGAL ORCHESTRA.
6d. to 2/- Plan at Nicholson’s (Fee, 6d. extra!.
IVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietor & Manager— Mr. Harry Rickards
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS.
FASOLA, The Great Indian Fakir.
COOPER & LAIT, Musical Comedy Artists.
CHARLES LILBURN, Clever Character Comedian.
ROUSBY’S Flashlight Scenes —AROUND PARIS.
ALEXANDER PRINCE, King of Concertina Players.
ODEYNE SPARK, London’s Dainty Comedienne.
BABY WATSON, LORNA and TOOTS POUNDS,
And a GREAT COMPANY of Established Favorites.
PRICES—3s., 2s. and Is. Plan at Paling’s.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor <te Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
WILD WILLIE AND WEST, Comedy Acrobats.
FRANK HARWOOD, Descriptive Vocalist.
SIX AMERICAN DANCERS.
LEIPZIG, Conjurer, Card Manipulator.
KAVANAGH BOYS, Tennis Racquet Jugglers.
LUCIA COLLINS, Musical Sketch Artiste.
YETTA, Wire Walker.
Plan at Allan's. It3T PRICES—3s., 25., Is.
JHEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
SATURDAY NEXT, MARCH 11,
H. R. ROBERTS and BEATRICE DAY
in Wilson Barrett's play,
LUCKY DURHAM,
FOR THREE WEEKS ONLY.
Plans at Allan’s. PRICES AS USUAL.
THE KING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager : William Anderson.
A GREAT SUCCESS.
MAX MAXWELL’S DRAMATIC ORGANISATION
—IN— i
E. Hill Mitchelson’s Romantic Costume Play,
REVENGE.
Box Plan at Allan’s. PRICES-35., 2s. and Is.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Direction of GEORGE MARLOW, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING.
ALLAN HAMILTON’S NEW DRAMATIC COMPANY
in
WHY MEN LOYE WOMEN.
Cast including MISS FRANCES ROSS,
MR. CONWAY WINGFIELD.
Plan at Allan’s. Popular Prices—3/-, 2/-, 1/-
Earlv Doors, 6d. extra. Reserved Seats, 4/-
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager: J. C. Williamson, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING.
Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON Presents Hewson’s Funny
Pantomime,
JACK and THE BEANSTALK
For which a COMPANY OF COMEDIANS, SINGERS,
DANCERS and PANTOMIMISTS has been organised
such as has NEVER BEEN APPROACHED ON THE
AUSTRALIAN STAGE.
Plan at Allan’s. PRICES—S/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/-
IA/EST-S PALACE, MELBOURNE.
the best WEST’S PICTURES, TH e best
OF ALL. LIMITED. OF ALL.
Managing Director : Mr. T. J. West.
NIGHTLY AT 8.
Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays & All Holidays at 2.30.
The Greatest Pictorial Enterprise in the World.
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
Any Moving Picture Worthy of Note always to be seen at
WEST’S PICTURES. Complete Change every week.
Prices—6d. to 2s. Box Plan at Glen's.
HE G LACIAR IU M, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J.&N.TAIT’S
PICTURES.
ALL THE LATEST PICTURES from Europe & America.
A COMPLETE CHANGE WEEKLY. Prices—2/-, 1/6,
1/-, 6d. Matinees —Wednesday, Saturday, All Holidays.
J. & N. TAIT’S
Q PEN-AIR THEATRE, ST. HILDA.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.30.
THE TOLLIES
NEW COSTUME COMEDY CO.
PRICES—I/6. 1/-. fid.
I RTHS'OLYMPIA
, EVERY EYENING AT 8.-
Matinees -Wednesdays. Saturdays and Holidays at 230.
CPENCER'SIheaTREJCOPE <?
J PICTURES
tartßE SUPERIOR TO /ILL OTIfERS
Popular Prices Plaw as Usual^v
The Union Bank of Australia Limited.
BALANCE-SHEET, AUGUST 31, 1910.
LIABILITIES.
Capi t a 1, £4,500,000 ;
Less: Reserve lia-
bility, £3,000,000
Paid up .. ..£1,500,000 0 0
Reserve Fund—
Invested in the names
of trustees—as per
contra, £1,000,000 ;
not specifically in-
vested, £330,000 .. 1,330,000 0 0
Balance of undivided
profits 146,382 9 2
£2,976,382 9 2
Circulation .. .. £463,404 0 0
Deposits (including in-
scribed stock deposits) 21,449,290 9 1
Bills payable and other
liabilities (including
reserves held against
contingencies).. .. 1,580,782 11 4
23,493,477 0 5
£26,469,859 9 7
ASSETS.
Specie on hand and cash balances ..£4,669,743 7 4
Bullion and advances on bullion .. 149,012 7 5
Money at call and short notice in London 1,930,000 0 0
Investmentsßes erve
Fund: Consols,
£750,000; local loans
(Imperial Government
stock), £250,000 ..£1,000,000 0 0
Other Investments:—
Consols, and other
stocks of, or guaran-
teed by the Imperial
Government, £227,386
os. 9d.; India Govern-
ment sterling stocks,
£50,224 15s. ; Colonial
Government, public
boards, and municipal
stocks and debentures,
£677,045 19s. 3d. .. £954,656 15 0
1,954,656 15 0
Balance of remittances and drafts in
transitu, and bills receivable at London
office 2,239,501 4 9
£10,942,913 14 6
Bills discounted, loans ana other secur-
ities at the branches and in London .. 14,979,367 4 4
Bank premises and properity in the
colonies .. .. .. .. 428,093 2 9
London leasehold premises£l42,3o4 19 4
Reserves against same
and accrued interest.. 22.819 11 4
119,485 8 0
£26,469,859 9 7
STATEMENT OF PROFITS,
-^>alance of undivided profits on February 28, 1910 .. .. .. .. .. ►, .. .. ..£144,927 15
Less: Dividend and bonus—July, 1910 106,000 0 0
Leaving- a balance of £39,927 15 S
Profits of the past half-year, after making provision in respect of bad and doubtful debts
and other contingencies £304,571 7 3
Less:
Remuneration to the local directors—and salaries and allowances to
the colonial staff £98,445 11 5
General expenses in the colonies—including rent, taxes, stationery, etc. 39,508 5 10
Remuneration to the board of directors and auditors, salaries of
London office staff, rent, taxes, stationery and general expenses 16,799 511
Income tax 9,363 10 7
163,116 13 9
141,454 13 8
£181,382 9 2
£15,000 0 0
20,000 0 0
35,000 0 0
Balance of undivided profits at this date .. ~ ■■ .. ~£146,382 9 2
London, January 10, 1911.
Deduct—
Provision for depreciation in the bank’s investments
Transfer to Reserve Fund ..
ARTHUR FLOWER,
ARTHUR P. BLAKE, V]
CHICHESTER, J
Directors,
A. O. WILLIS, Manager.
O. M. 0. SHANNON, Accountant.
AUDITORS’ CERTIFICATE AND REPORT.
In accordance with the provision of Section 113 of the Companies (Consolidation) Act 1908, we report to the
Shareholders as follows :
We have examined the above balance-sheet with ttie books at head office, and have had access to the branch
accounts transmitted to the head office from the colonies. We have verified the correctness of the cash, money at
call and short notice, investments, and the bills of exchange held in London ; and having obtained all the informa-
tion and explanations we have required, we are of opinion that such balance-sheet is properly drawn up so as to
exhibit a true and correct view of the state of the company’s affairs according to the best of our information and
the explanations given to us, and as shown by the books of the company and the said branch accounts.
London, E. 0., January 10, 1911.
WHINNEY, SMITH and WHINNEY,
Chartered Accountants.
Auditors.
Y'JillgiVtK'iaHimi'lW.HiHllgail!
?
A MANLY MOUSTACHL !
You are sensitive about your youthful appearance—you imagine slights ate
put on you because of your boyish looks, and that people remark about your
not being able to grow a moustache. Give the lie to these unkind critics—
just use CAPILLARINE at night before going to bed—rub it in gent.lt
where you want the hair to grow—and see how soon the laugh will be with
you. Oapillarine will start the hair growing luxuriantly—it cannot fail to,
because it is a hair food of proved value over 30 years of trial.
10/8 a. Jar Post Free in Plain Wrapper.
The C. & A. Moustache Trainer makes the moustache a
nice shape. Worn at night. 2/6 post free.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George St., Sydney.
Established
30 Years.
TO PROPRIETORS OF
CINEMATOGRAPHS.
FILMS
FOR
HIRE.
Advice
Free.
Over 250,000 feet of Films
are in our stock ready for
sale or hire —every foot
fresh, novel, interesting
subjects.
Whatever you want we
can sup p 1 y—N e w
Machines, Films, parts
and improvements.
We have competent oper-
ators—g iv e entertain-
ments anywhere, or will
hire out machines to
responsible persons.
Write us for particulars—
we are one of the largest
Cinematograph dealers
in Australasia.
<3>
“’Xtra Spechul! ”
JERDAN’S,
Leading Cinematograph
Specialists,
393 George Street
(Facing
Royal Hotel),
Sydney,
OSTRICH PLUITES
FROM OUR FAMOUS FARMS IN SOUTH AFRICA.
BLACK, WHITE, CREAM, GREY, NATURAL, or BLACK
TIPPED WITH WHITE (Length, 15 inches).
This style of Ostrich Feather is very fashionable.
10/6
POST FREE
to any address.
The Feathers we offer you cannot be bought for twice the
money in any other house. They are the Best Value in
Australia. Write to-day. Send Postal Notes or Money Order
payable to John Miller. Illustrated Catalogues Post Free.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner of Strand Arcade,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
[Mention The Bulletin.]
Also at Corner of Bourke and Swanston Streets, MELBOURNE.


Cushion Frame, Anti-Jar Ball-
Richardson
Bearing: Roller Skates.
Used exclusively in all of the largest and most successful rinks
and bv all the Champions of the World, fast and fancy. RICHAKDbUJN
SKATES have held all World’s Records for 24 years. Write for Catalogue.
Tells how to open and operate Roller Rinks.
Richardson Ball-Bearing Skate Co., 311 Michigan Street, Chicago, U.S.A.
RICHARDSON’
CHICAGO
For comfort and health you must wear
all-wool stockings, socks, and underwear. Nothing
else will do. Most all-wool wear shrinks.
Wear —the hosiery that is made of soft, fleecy,
absorbent Australian wool, and nothing but
wool, and that is absolutely unshrinkable.
“Jason” Stockings, Socks, and Underwear, for Men, Ladies, and Children.
In all prices. Of Men's Outfitters, Drapers, and Stores.
If your dealer does not stock "f<t-&cr£
he can obtain it from his
wholesale house.
In case of d'fficnlty wr-ts for
" Jason " Ugoltlet and
name of nearest Agent,
to
Jason Hosiery Co..
Leicester, England.
UNDER VICE-REGAL
PATRONAGE.,
The Misses Isaacs,
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair-
workers & Dermatologists,
161 KING STREET, SYDNEY, between Elizabeth & Castlereagh Streets.
Transformations from £4/4/- Tails from 7/6. Puffs from 25/- set. Fringes from 7/6.
Telephone 213 S Central. COMBINGS MADE DP.
Country orders receive prompt attention.
STEVEN
FAVORITE RIFLE NO. 19
UNERRINGLY ACCURATE.
The Ideal Rifle for Miniature Rifle Clubs.
Same Specifications as Favorite No. 17, except fitted with Lyman Front,
Stevens Leaf and Lyman Rear Peep Sights.
Insist on
STEVENS
when ordering
from your Dealer.
Write for Catalogue to
ARTHUR H. HILL, Australian Represent-
ative for Stevens Arms and Tool Co.,
Box 86, G.P.0., Adelaide, S. Australia.
Send for latest Fire-
arm, Telescope and
Stevens-Pope Cata-
logues-
[s
%
ll
A WISH:
Let good Digestion
Wait on Appetite
And Health on Both.
“ Montserrat
:: :: Sauce
the basis cf which is
“MONTSERRAT” LIME
FRUIT JUICE, helps to
fulfil this cheery wish.
Ask your Storekeeper for it.
Guaranteed free from Preservatives,
\ N Australian’s Two Hands—THE LONE
HAND and THE BULLETIN. You can’t
do without either, and they both cost the same.
The. Elite
msam
m
W "a'aS
<>XV*e
y***"--
eaudeColo
Ell l !ii
FIDELITAS
m
m
JV
mm
P
«
m
F.W0LFFaS0HN
-Karlsruhe
ill
Triumph of
Modem Science
Obtainable from all leading establishments
M2
l»U
SP? ll> 5%'
bnMfcfe Bn
y^e
•<?
N.
%NV
l*
m
$
(5
»V>
jrv
i
&
\\
O O OOfi
°oooO‘
fifoflk
Jg?
'A# rf* C\£L^
£
G
ft 1
Y *
v'«
i®r
X
c
VK
rv.
<r
! w
Bibenduni s Tyre Lectures .
No. i.
On the front wheels.
It stands to reason, gentlemen : The safest combination of Tyres for the front wheels
is that which will reduce the possibility of side-slip to the minimum, and so enable you to
travel in greater comfort and save your car from many of those severe strains which so often
entail costly repairs. That front wheel combination is a
Non-Skid and Square Tread
—with the non-skid on the left wheel, of course, seeing that the rule of the road is “keep to
the left,” and that, in most cases, it is along their sides that roads are wettest and greasiest.
Michelin non-skids, unlike so-called non-skids made wholly of rubber, do not wear
down into ordinary smooth treads. They are efficient all the time because their treads are
protected by stout lea'her and solid steel studs.
Michelin Square Treads, besides bemg moulded in one piece—which makes them so
much stronger than ordinary plain covers —are so made that, if cut, the incision has a
tendency to close rather than to open. I'he advantage of this is that water and dirt cannot
find their way in nearly so readily.
ALL THE LEADING AGENTS.
WARNING. —Don’t buy Michelin Tyres at less than current prices.
They may be of old manufacture. Purchase only from our Agents.
THE BULLETIN POST CARPS
NEW SERIES—IV., V., VI
Packet of Twelve, 6d. ; Packet of Ten, stl


MICK. SIMMONS LTD.
Great ANNUAL SALE
of SPORTING and
FISHING GOODS.
Every Article in 1911 Catalogue Reduced Excepting 25 Convention Lines marked thus : X .
SEND FOR SPECIAL SALE SNAPS and LIST.
SALE STARTS MONDAY, MARCH 20; FINISHES FRIDAY, MARCH 31.
Head Depot t MICK SIMMONS LTD., Haymarket, SYDNEY.
Branches: Hunter St., Newcastle; 273 Darling St., Balmain; 197 Oxford St., City;
113 King St., Newtown 5 ; 24 Pitt St., City ; Church St., Parramatta.
Schute, Bell & Go.
LIMITED
Wool Stores: Central Wharf. Produce Stores:
Quay. Offices : 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Do not sell Fat Stock,
but only Wool, Sheepskins,
Hides, Tallow, etc., and
Marsupial <& Rabbit Skins.
Each head of the Company a worker
in the interests of their constituents.
Proceeds protected Trust Account
Bank of N.S.W.
GIVEN AWAY
For Correct Answers.
To each and every person sending in the Corre ct Solution of the following Puzzle we hereby undertake
and agree to send them the sum of
FIVE POUNDS
subject to the conditions hereunder :
Encouraged by the enormous demand for our PICTURE POST CARDS, we have devised this simple
Method of advertising, with the object of making our name mere widely known, and to intro duce our
1911 Series. We expect by this competition of brains to make such an impression on your mind that
you will be compelled to talk about us to your friends, and the extraordinary value of our FINE ART
PICTURE POST CARDS.
ALL WE ASK YOU TO DO IS THIS!
Fill in the missing letters in the following Puzzle :
O R P**T OR S A*E T*E B**T V*L*E IN A*S,R,L # A.
Your answer must he posted and addressed to the Manager of the Fine Art Post Card Co., Hunter-
street, Sydney and received by him, and must agree with our solution, lodged in the BankofN.S.W.
PRIZES WILL BE SENT PROMPTLY.
With your solution to the above Puzzle (to which there is no entry fee), send us a Postal Note for 9/6,
for which we will send you Free a sample packet of thirty (30) Selected and Assorted Post Cards, and if
your solution is co rect, we will also send you within a fortnight your prize of £5, and will ask you to
accept lhi3 reward for your services for showing our Post Cards, and recommending them to your friends
WE GUARANTEE this Cempetition to be a straightforward Competition of brains and work. A copy
of the right solution we have lodged with our Bankers (Bank N.S.W.).
Due notice of the closing of this Competition will appear in this paper, but if before the date of the
closing of the Competition more than 100 correct answers have been received, One Hundred Cash Prizes
of £5 each will be awarded te those sending correct answers in the order in which their answers shall
have been read by the Manager of the FINE ART POST CARD CO.
Should your solution reach uj before the closing date, and be correct aooording to our conditions, and
not be within the first 100, we will send you FREE A SOLID SILVER WATCH AND CHAIN (Lady's or
Gentleman’s). No person will be entitled to more than one prize.
N.B.—Your solution is to be accompanied by attached Coupon which forms part of this competition,
and addressed to THE MANAGER OF »
FINE ART POST CARD
CO.
HUNTER STREET,
SYDNEY.
My Solution to your Puzzle is as follows:
And I AGREE TO ABIDE BY THE DECISION OF THE MANAGER OF THE FINE ART POST
CARD CO., which I accept as final and legally binding
Signed
Address
Date
What You Got Not What You Pay — COUNTS.
TRY 1? A r i 1?
THE l/AvLly
Built by men who know the
essentials of GOOD WORK.
The PERFECT PRODUCT of
practical experience.
rJ
Brand
Footwear
Made from Australian Materials by Australians for Australians.
They meet the demand for STRICTLY RELIABLE and UP-TO-DATE FOOTWEAR.
They Will Satisfy YOU!
Obtainable from Leading MERCHANTS everywhere.
Sole Manufacturers and Proprietors —
The Davey Halliday Company, Limited
Wholesale Only. BRISBANE.
your
BOOTS and SHOES.
Meltonian
PASTE.
!n BLACK and BROWN.
The best and also the cheapest
PASTE POLISH on the market
for cleaning, polishing, and
preserving all kinds of Leather
Boots, Shoes, Harness, &c.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
tfONM*
PAStt
fyCLtMM
UPOLISHING
6MCEt«B»I
MAOE. &Y “
E.BROWN
AT TH* IA MU-TOMIAM 6I.ACK.IWC. HAKWrftCTOIW
ojnr 3MAU.QUUITITY
Made bv the Manufacturers of the Celebrated
" MELTONIAN ” BOOT POLISHES.
E. BROWN 6 SON ( B,ack^ n “? a d ct B u°re t r S Po,,Bh) LTD - LONDON aivd PARIS.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1908 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 6d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dit. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy’, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handy book, Is 3d. Quadrille Call Book,
2s. Adventures of a Flirt, Is. 3d. Parlor Tricks
and Games, is. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
Is 2d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illns., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ G uide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is 2d post.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, Us. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ss. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, fid. Britain for the
British, 6d. How to Read Faces. Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. Tiie Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, .Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is 6rt.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
KMBRACINO
THE POPULAR "PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
mr- BOOKSELLER TO THE. COMMONWEALTH. **l
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Ss.cr.kts and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
•to-Date, Is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
■Speaking Made Easy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d.
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Elements ok Social
Science, 3s 6d. HowMcDougall Topped the Score, &
Other Verses, Is 3d. The Gay Count, Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, os.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying: more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. Established 25 Yearn .
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT.
»
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Makk Ur, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d uost. Hr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s fid. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions of the King,
Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. 6d. Secret
History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. 'Vest Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s fid post.
Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Bead Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevassk’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s fid posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s fid posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (woids and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.


TERRIBLE BILIOUS ATTACKS.
DOCTOR SURPRISED AT WONDERFUL
HEALTH-RESTORING POWERS OF BILE BEANS.
a
S 3
&
30k
MRS. E. EVANS, urateful to Bile
Beans for Biliousness.
Every woman should rely on Bile Beans
as her safeguard against sickness and ill
health. “For ever ten years Bile Beans
ave been a constant companion in my
home,” says Mrs. E. Evans; of Marion
Street, Charters Towers, Q. “I have
never felt better in my life than
since my last boy was born, and
during my severe illness I took
nothing but Bile Beans. Peri-
> odical splitting headaches, to-
I getliex* with acute bilious attacks
and constipation, were a source
i of great misery to me.
“Acting on the advice of a
friend, I commenced with Bile
Beans, and this medicine put
r me right almost immediately.
I By continuing with Bile Beans I
improved so much and put on flesh,
that my doctor and his wife both
remarked on my altered appearance.
I used to walk about my room holding
my head with the aching and throb-
bing, but now I can go about cheer 1 -
fully, and find a pleasure in my
household duties. I take a dose of Bile
Beans regularly, and they keep the
system in good condition, and ward off 1
biliousness and indigestion.”
Nature’s Own Remedy.
BILE BEANS are the standard remedy for biliousness, headache, indigestion, consti-
pation, piles, dizziness, swimming in the head, nausea, spasms, belching, “ wind,” pains
in the chest, flatulency, heartburn, vomiting, anaemia, impure blood, fulness after meals,
loss of appetite, disturbed sleep, summer fag, debility, and all disorders of the liver,
stomach and digestive organs. Bile Beans are obtainable from all chemists and stores at
Is. l£d. and 2s. 9d. for large family size (containing three times the Is. size), or
direct from t|je Bile Beans Manufacturing Co., 39 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Riie beans
MM for biliousness.
Beauty’s Favourite
The article which excels all others
in improving' the beauty of the skin
is naturally and deservedly beauty's
favourite. This has been the
acknowledged 4 and honoured
position held by Pears' Soap for
nearly 120 years. It won, and has
maintained that position by virtue
of its complete purity, and by the
possession of those special emollient
properties which soften, refine,
and impart natural colour to the
akin. No other soap possesses
these qualities in such a pre-
eminent degree as
Matchless for the Complexion.
Aidenn.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
BY the banks of the chrysolite river,
That flows to the opaline sea,
There are leaves of large healing a-quiver,
And golden fruits ripe on the tree ;
And, wrought with the wonder of ages,
O’ermarked with the mystical Seven,
Is the little gold mosque of the sages
In a bright river suburb of Heaven.
Aflash in the scintillant weather,
The domes and the palaces rise ;
A-flutter with pinion and feather
Are all the blue paths of the skies ;
The cerulean ether is clouded
With tufts of immaculate down,
Where the wings of gay angels are crowded
O’er the clean, hall-marked pavements of
town.
A twenty-four carat cathedral
Grows up like a rose on its stem,
With glittering lights tetrahedral,
And fretting of lustre and gem ;
And round the best parts of the city
Are mansions of saintly delight,
Wrought with rubies as red as God’s pity,
And diamonds as clear as his sight.
Far-stretching by river and harbor
Are gardens of blossom a-gleam,
Deep Edens of vine-arch and arbor.
Mist-dim with the silver of dream ;
And a music trails over and after,
Wind-pure without sorrow or sigh,
Like the soul of a child’s happy laughter
That has wedded the pipe of the sky.
Beyond are delectable mountains,
Ail keen in the airs of the west,
Attune with the spray-song of fountains.
Aglow with dim roses of rest,
Leaning out of an ether of wonder,
As lined with a pencil of morn ;
God chained to their summits his thunder
The day that young Laughter was born.
Afloat on the fire-hearted ocean
Are ships that creep up from the night,
Clear sails with the statelier motion
Of white birds that wmg to the light;
And thefreightof young souls that they carry
Is light on each crystalline keel ;
Bride-sweet is the gladness they marry
To the heart-sweet of rapture they feel.
The keels grate the emerald shallows,
A music leaps out from the land.
Oh, wings that were swift as the swallows,
Fold now, for your bliss is at hand !
Plunge anchors of gold in the waters —
The hour of new joy cannot wait—
The City of Laughter’s tall daughters
Wave welcoming plumes at the gate.
Who comes through the portals resplendent ?
11l fits this bright guise with a saint—
No whiskers of holiness pendent,
No anchorite looks of restraint.
A maker of jest in world spaces,
A gardener of riotous bloom—
Will the angels avert their pure faces,
Will the saint with the keys give him room ?
Lo, wide where the glories are thronging,
The voice of his welcome runs clear
From angels, a-tiptoe with longing,
“ The maker of laughter is here ! ”
And up through the heavenly spaces
A tumult of gladness is blown,
Till the clear rainbows shake in their places,
By the pillars of Allah’s white throne.
He had planted the flower of his jesting
By the weary, brown pathway of years!
A bloom that grew skyward protesting
Against a world’s weed-growth of tears;
And now for that one rose of lightness
The portals of pearl open wide,
Great Allah leans low through the brightness
And calls up his son to his side.
Pale ghosts with dim halos of sorrow
Creep in without welcoming cry ;
But for him is the splendid to-morrow
In the banqueting halls of the sky,
Where the feast of the song never closes
’Neath the mark of the mystical Seven ;
For the God that made sunshine and roses
Has a throne of high laughter in Heaven,
By the banks of the chrysolite river,
Where the lilies and asphodels kiss,
There are leaves with dull harpings a-quiver,
And harsh voices that grumble at bliss ;
For Allah, in wonder of pity,
Has built for their special delight
A wowser-mosque, far from the city,
In a second-rate suburb of Light.
But wide in the scintillant weather
The domes and the palaces rise;
A-flutter with pinion and feather
Are all the blue paths of the skies;
And music trails over and after
Where the high throne of Allah is set,
’Mid the clear, holy chords of white laughter
That holds all the worlds in its net.
s.s.w.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
The Cat and the Statue.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THERE are some very bad statues in
Melbourne—including that of Fitzgibbon,
which you will see jtwsfc as you cross
Princes Bridge into the-St. Kilda-road.
One. forearm of the Fitzgibbon effigy juts out
at right angles. If it had been otherwise Con-
stable O’Rafferty would not have written his
classic first report, and the Victorian Police Force
would have been denied much innocent laughter.
All this happened ages ago, and O’Rafferty has
become a senior-constable. But he never passes
the Fitzgibbon statue without blushing. Yet it
takes a good deal to make a senior-constable
blush.
Once upon a time three small boys found a
deat cat in a gutter in Little Lonsdale-street.
After they had dragged it about on a piece of string
for three days the infuriated inhabitants began to
notice something wrong, and chased them out of
the street. They went down to the Yarra bank,
where, as evening fell, they gave the cat a swim,
always on the end of the string. Cats do not like
water, as a rule, but this one didn’t object,
except in the one way possible to defunct
organic matter in summer time. Even the small
boys were convinced at last that, as a plaything,
the cat was no longer possible. From this you
may judge the full infamy of it.
So the boys tied a stone to one end of the string
—the cat was at the other—and carried their
burden up to the Fitzgibbon statue. They threw
the stone over the arni, and hauled the cat up. It
was beautiful, brigjit moonlight, and the boys
pnjoyed the effect of Fitzgibbon holding the dead
cat by the tail. Many passers-by noted the effect,
too, but their enjoyment was marred by a certain
objectionable quality inherent to the cat.
Constable O’Rafferty was then a raw recruit
from a little country town. He had been in uni-
form for six wee)**, and liked himself very well
in it. He had been placed upon the bridge at the
evening change of section, and was simply burst-
ing with the desire for a case. So far, he had not
justified his position in the force. Young Pickens,
who had joined at the same time as himself, had,
alone and unaided, run in a drunken woman a
week ago, written a report on a fine, blue official
form, appeared in court against his prisoner and
secured a conviction. Some fellows had all the
luck.
Meanwhile the cat on the statue dissolved
slowly in wafts of odor as the soft southerly
breeze blew along St. Kilda-road. One of these
wafts smote Constable O’Rafferty in the midriff,
and all but slew him. “ Wan iv thim dahm fish-
hawkers bin emptyin’ his harry into the gutther
agen,” murmured the constable. You will per-
ceive by bis speech that O’Rafferty was of the
material from which excellent policemen are made.
Slowly he tracked down that grisly smell, and
at last, with the craft of an expert ’possum-
hunter, gkied the cat against the moon over Gov-
ernment House. As he got it, another gust of
radio-active cat set him swearing and spitting
again. He looked up at the station clock, perched
high on its skeleton tower. Eleven o’clock ! The
senior was due at a quarter-past. This suspension
of offensive fclidae upon the image of Melbourne’s
greatest citizen was probably a terrific offence.
Here was a case at last. It was not a pleasant
case, but duty is not always pleasant. It was
highly indecorous to allow the cat to remain
where it was. So O’Rafferty, climbing carefully
up to windward, cut the string, and the cat fell
with a sort of phosphorescent glimmer of odor
Upon the grass-plot beneath the pedestal. The con-
stable, with many bad words and frequent expec-
toration, took it back to his point, holding it care-
fully by its remaining two inches of string, and
walking, like Agag, delicately, lest he should jolt
it. As he reached the little sentry-box on the
middle of the bridge the senior came up.
“All quiet?” he asked.
“Yis, sorr,” replied O’Rafferty. “Exceppin’
Oi found this " —he thrust the horrific mass under
the senior’s nose—“hangin’ on ould Fitzgibbon’s
stattv.”
“Hell !” cried the senior. “Take it away—
pah ! ”
“ PhWat shall Oi do wid ut, sorr?”
The senior was annoyed. From a distance of
10 good yards he spake: “Do with it! Better
take it to Russell-street when you’re relieved, and
write a good long report about it. Then take it
down to Billy Davidson, at the Morgue. Unless
you want to eat it.” The cat flung its aura play-
fully at him, and he departed without further
sarcasm.
O’Rafferty was not a clever man, otherwise he
would not have been in the Victorian Police Force.
Sarcasm was wasted on him. His chance to
write his maiden report had come. At 4 o’clock
he clove his way into the inquiry-room at
Russell-street and set the cat down on the
senior’s chair while he wrote his piece. The
senior in charge was not in charge. He
was chatting with the telephone orderly and
the roundsman of the Clarion in the next room.
“Const. O’Rafferty 34,201,” wrote that young
man. “I have to riport that at 11 o’clock p.in.
last night, in consequence of noticeing a bad smell
on Princes Brigde, I made inquireys and found
the boddy of diseased hanging from the arm
of ”
“Holy Moses!” said the senior in the next
room, plaintively. “Must be a dead rat under
the floor, Mac.”
“Maybe, Jim,” replied Mac, the telephone
orderly. “ I noticed it a while ago ; but I thought
it was your breath, only I didn’t like to say any-
thing. Some blokes are so sensitive.”
“ the stattue of the late, diseased Fitz-
gibben, K.G.M.C. I cut the boddy down, but
found that life was extinked. I wanted to”
“Good Lord !” moaned the senior in the next
room. He rose and came to the door. “ Phew ! ”
he said, “ it’s worse in here.”
“ throw it in the river,” wrote Constable
O’Rafferty, “but Senior-Constable Montygue
. directed me to convey”
“ Say. O’Rafferty,” inquired the senior, “have
you been sitin’ anv of them German cheeses? ”
“No, sorr.” O’Rafferty wrote on, his tongue
hanging out. “ the diseased to the
how d’ye spell Morgue, please, senior ?”
“ Morgue ? Is that where you’ve been ? ”
“ No, sorr. Oi’m afther goin’ there whin Oi’ve
writ me repoort.”
“ A'report f’r the coroner ! Have you brought
a dead body up here?”
“No, sorr—only this.” O’Rafferty held up the
cat.
“ Great Caesar’s spectre ! ”
“Oi was eroin’t’ t’row ut in th’ river, but Senior-
Constable Montygue tould me to wroite a repoort.
Havin’ writ it Oi t’ink O’ll lave vous th’ cor-rpse.
It’s near made me sick.” O’Rafferty handed the
blue paper-form to the astounded senior and was
gone before the cat could be hurled at him. Very
reverently the senior bore the remains into the
street, the telephone orderly and the Clarion
roundsman following behind the cortege with
averted noses. Over the fence, behind the old
City Court, was a rank growth of dockweed and
Bathurst burr. The magistrate, for a week after-
wards made heartfelt remarks concerning the
sanitation of the court.
Sitting on the kerb, outside the police barracks,
the senior-constable, telephone orderly and re-
porter read-the report with howls of admiration,
waiting till the cloud had departed from the
inquiry room. Then the senior, not perceiving
the full value of the document, gave it to the
Clarion roundsman in exchange for a woefully
indifferent cigar.
HASSAN.


ARE YOUR KIDNEYS WEAK
Thousands Have Kidney Trouble and Never Know It.
Weak and unhealthy kidneys are responsible for more sickness
and suffering than any other disease ; therefore, when through
neglect or other causes, kidney trouble is permitted to continue,
fatal results are sure to follow. Your other organs may need
attention —but your kidneys most, because they do most and
need attention first.. If you are sick or “feel badly, begin
taking Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, the great kidney and
bladder remedy, because as soon as your kidneys are well they
will help all the other organs to health. A trial will convince
anyone. The advice of friends, of neighbors, of Sydney people
is good, for Sydney testimony is easily proven.
Sydney Proof.
Mr. John Moroney, Ham and Beef Shop, 228 Elizabeth-street, Sydney, says About 18
months ago I began to suiter with Backache, and got a feeling in the small of my back as if I had a
growth there, or as if some foreign substance had lodged there ’; it did not show outwardly, but
troubled me more than you would suppose. I could not lie in bed with comfort.. I saw in the
paper that Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills had cured a man I know, and one day I asked him for the
full particulars of his case. He told me he had been very bad, and this remedy cured him, and
strongly advised me to try it. I did use them, and have not much to say beyond that they cured
me also ; the backache and the unpleasant sensation have quite gone. I strongly recommend the
use of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills to all who suffer with backache. I hear good reports about
them on all sides, and if anybody calls to see me I will be pleased to give fuller particulars of my case.
When asked about the above eight years later Mr. Moroney says “ Thanks to Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pills lam still well and free of backache. This remedy cured me eight years ago, and
I’ve not had the slightest return of the ailment since.”
Gvery
Picture/^
Tells
A StoryjSt
In
K
EJ
Backache
Kidney
At all Chemists and
Stores , 2/p per bottle
r " J .-a* • ' »
(six bottles, ijjlj) ;or
from Foster-Me Clellan
Co., 76 Pitt St., Sydney
Ta-Mahinna.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
MOON islands out in the shimmering
splendor
Of the moon’s white pathway of silver
fire;
Moon shadows touching a dream-world tender—
O Ta-Mahinna ! 0 heart’s desire !
Were you only a dream with a dream’s surrender,
A moon-spun glory that must expire?
A fate-flung phantom out in the distance,
A rose in the greyness of life’s grey chart,
Shall I wrestle with fiends in a fool’s resistance—
O Ta-Mahinna ! my restless heart
Craves thee again with a fierce insistence,
And we are drifting—apart ! —apart!
O Ta-Mahinna ! Shall Time’s dividing
Quench the white lustre of moons gone by ?
Is there no land of a great abiding
For the beacons that beckoned from lip and eye
Love’s lost stars out in the darkness hiding
Beyond the gates of the grave’s good-bye ?
No lotus land where the gods are tending
The lone lost stars of our exile drear ;
No glad green twilight of peace descending
From Love’s own land of the Always Near,
Where we’ll gather the blossoms of joy unending,
With the faith of the children that know not
fear ?
In the radiant lap of a land unsmitten
By death and darkness and dreams that die,
Where no soul walks in the darkness bitten
With the listless languor that makes no cry,
Shall they live in the essence of things unwritten,
When the hills are dust and the seas are dry ?
Who shall say ’—While the dead are sleeping,
Arid fettered souls in their prisons fret—
If this be the end of our time of weeping?
We dream it may be, and yet!—and yet—
If one should waken with pulses leaping
For glad remembrance—and one forget ?
Ever the hunter of lives is calling—
Calling for sacrifice fair and fresh ,
Where the strong souls wrestle their bondage
galling.
And the weaklings languish in bond and mesh ;
Shall he ever have ruth for life’s red rain falling—
For the strong soul cleaving the quivering flesh?
Nay ! —it is written-!—the pale years fleeing
Like a train of ghosts to the far away,
Bear all our treasures beyond our seeing,
And the earth-heart yawns for the senseless
clay
That has lived and labored and spent its being
Like the swift, sweet breath of a summer day.
Ah Ta-Mahinna ! My heart is yearning
For life’s full measure ! —and life is o’er.
And I am hungered and sick with learning
The weary wisdom of world-old lore.
This is the end ! —God ! —the slow sands turning—
And then the darkness —for evermore.
VICTORIA.
MARIE E. J. PITT.
On the Land.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
f P'l HEY told me to see Smith —Jim Smith
of Showery Plains. They said I would find
Jim a well-informed and interesting old
settler.
I found him in the cow-yard, waving a bucket
at a herd of milkers.
“ Ah, yes ! ” Smith said, “it makes good read-
ing, does all this blessed preaching about the man
on the land making money for himself out of
crops and cows. It suits the money-lender and
the middle-man and the cove in office all right,
doesn’t it ?”
Here he broke off and ran to block a cow from
doubling back to the paddock. He blocked the
cow, and turned to me again.
“Making money for himself out of crops and
cows, eh ! ” Smith laughed—a short, choky sort
of laugh. “Now, look here ’’ —standing the bucket
on a corner post and placidly removing his old
slouch hat—“ if there’s to be the great Judgment
Day that we hear so much about—if a Grand
Jury is to weigh all our actions and award us all
our just measure of fire, or molten lead, or
whatever it is to be, then all I’ve got to say is,
God help the boodlers ! ”
I said I was sorry he took such an extreme
view of things.
‘‘You needn’t be sorry,” Smith answered.
“ I’m only one among a great many that take it —
that have to take it. This farm here, which I’ve
no doubt is a profitable looking concern to you.
with all those buildings and yards and machinery
about it, I bought for £2 10s. an acre. I got it
from a syndicate, and I had 20 years to pay by
instalments. Do you follow me ? ”
I followed him.
“ Well, to meet those instalments and at the
same time to make a living for the family, I
worked and grafted from daylight to starlight
year in, year out, and so did the wife—living on
just the bare necessary food, and doing with the
scantiest bit of clothes that you could think of.
We were not exactly like John the Baptist, more
like a whole family of him, with the difference
that perhaps we worked a lot harder. Ah
yes ! it was all work. There was never any leisure
or pleasure about it. Whenever there was any bit
of a gathering on —a picnic, a concert, a little race-
meeting, and God knows they very seldom happened
along—we could never dream of showing up. In
the first place, we could never afford, to give any-
thing towards it. In the second place, our clothes
were a lion in the path.
“ Anyway, as seasons came and went, we reaped
some pretty good crops, and some were that bad
that we didn’t reap them at all. But by dint of
constant plugging and battling, the soil, on the
average, yielded enough to clear the place of debt,
and to keep us all alive, and pretty humble.
The ghost of the Syndicate ceased haunting
us in our sleep, and the little home at last became
our very own. That was a great moment in my
life. Shall I ever forget the relief it brought !
Heaven may be all it is cracked up to be; but if
it holds only half the happiness the parting with
that Syndicate brought to me, then I’m prepared
to crawl on my hands and knees over precipices
and glass bottles to get there.
“ With the money which hitherto had gone to
meet principal and interest we now began to
get a few comforts. And how they were wel-
comed ! A brighter and softer side of life
started to reveal itself to us—aside we had hardly
known before. And we began to plan little
schemes for improving the holding, and bettering
our position—schemes laid out upon modest lines.
In short, we decided to go in only for such things
as we could afford to pay cash for as we went
along. Up to this time, mind you, we had only
erected a rude slab hut —it stands over there still
and does service as the kitchen—a cow-yard,
and a bit of fencing. And had we continued along
those lines, I would be a different man to-day.
But there’s the rub !
"A sudden change came over the district. I
don’t know why, or how it came. It certainly
was not because farmers were making any more
or any less out of produce than they had been
making all along. But new-comers from the
south came crowding down upon us—new-comers
who might have been agricultural Solomons in
their own cabbage gardens, for ought I know to
the contrary, but who knew little or nothing of
the conditions here. Well, they were all piloted
round the country by the Government, at our
expense, and they talked themselves hoarse about
the vast heritage they saw us sitting down on,
and declaimed loudly of the beauty and the
wealth of it all, and never grew tired of declaring
that our bit of earth was leagues ahead of theirs m
the South, which people were falling over one
another to buy at £5O an acre! And everything
they uttered was hungrily devoured, and printed
in large letters in the newspapers, and a lot that
they didn’t utter at all was printed there. Then
a young town started to rise up all round the rail-
way station. Town allotments were auctioned,
and purchased at big figures. Costly two-storey
pubs were erected. Commission agents opened
offices. Then, with horses and sulkies and supplies
of optimistic views on land values, they started
tearing through the district in the Devil’s own
hurry.
“ This new order of things was a staggerer to us
old hands. For the life of us we couldn’t make
out what the rush was all about, neither could we
see what there was for the ‘ town ’ to exist upon.
But when the Bank of North Jonah came along
and erected a branch office and hung out its luring
signboard, we were more then ever perplexed.
Some of us began to suspect the presence of a
secret gold-mine somewhere. Ah yes! it was
more of a wonder to us than a late frost. We
gave it all up at last, and sat down and waited
for a solution. We hadn’t long to wait. The
manager of that branch bank propelled himself
through the district at greater speed than the
commission agents. And in turn he called upon
us with a full explanation. This is how he ex-
plained matters to me :
“ 4 Now,’ said he, sitting down in the old humpy
that was, ‘ what do you reckon this farm of yours
is worth, Smith, if you were going to sell it ?’
“ " Well,’ I answered, ‘ I reckon I paid as good
as four-quid an acre for it, and if anyone wants it
I wouldn’t take a boh less.’
“ He laughed a sad, cynical sort of laugh, and,
looking wiser than a whole hospital full of doctors,
said :
“ ‘ Do you know what its value really is ?’
“I got a fright. An awful suspicion that my
hit of earth, after all those years of toil and worry,
was only worth about five boh or so, crept all over
me. and I went cold. Anyway, I kept silent
and waited for the worst.
“ ‘ Ten pounds an acre! ’ he said.
“ 4 What l’ And I jumped to my feet like a
scared wallahv. ‘ You’re joking ! ’
“‘Possibly twelve' he added, looking as calm
as though it were cucumbers we were talking
about.
“ That was far too much for me, and I went off
on a go-as-you-please round the room. I must
have done about 20 laps before my senses were
restored.
“ ‘ Why, dammit, then, I must he worth £4oool’
I yelled, stopping in front of him.
“ ‘ If there’s 400 acres in it you are,’ he said.
“ 4 There's 420 acres ! ’ I shouted.
“ 4 Then you’re worth £4200.’
44 1 didn’t say any more. I grabbed him by his
two lovely white hands and shook them for joy.
4 4 When I had done shaking he laughed a short,
grizzly sort of laugh, and Said he could under-
stand my feelings. Then from that he got right
down to business, and what that manager didn t
know about his side of the business wasn’t worth
knowing.
“ 4 What you should do with this place. Smith,’
he began, 4 is to improve it properly. You want
a good barn, and a bore and windmill, and large
haysheds and a lot more machinery, and all that
sort of thing.’
44 1 was delighted to hear my own idea of things
confirmed by such high authority, and right away
let him into the secret of our little scheme —that
old-fashioned scheme of going slowly and paying
for everything as we could afford it. He laughed
one of those wretched, disparaging laughs that
always makes a fellow feel lie’s a fool.
44 4 Pshaw /’ he said; 4 that’s no good to you.
Our bank will advance you all the-money you re-
quire, rightaway, up to6opercent.of its full value;
but, of course, you would have to put it into im-
provements.’
44 That started me thinking in a dazed sort of
way, and while I was thinking he got further
down to business. He gave me a lot of pleasant
information about the beneficent side of banking,
and showed me clearly that by pursuing my own
wretched idea of finance I would only be marking
time. Also, before he left he gave me about
£2OOO out of his bank at 5 per cent., which I, at
various times, called found for later on.
44 That’s five years ago ! ” Here Smith paused
a while, and stared dreamily at the dim horizon.
44 And my farm, now worth £lO an acre, doesn’t
yield me any more than it did when it was only
worth £2 10s. But”—lie paused again—“my
yield to the bank is a lot more than it was. On
that £2OOO I’m paying 7£ per cent, now instead of
5 per cent. In fact, I’m just about working for the
bank. And whenever there’s an election about,
somehow I’m always voting for it !
44 Ah, yes,” Smith concluded, lifting the bucket
from the corner post, “it’s wonderful what we
farmers are making out of crops and cows —in the
newspapers !”
STEELE RUDD.


TOOHEYS LIMITED
l. '■'• ; • • j \ 1 I ' “
Standard Bottle Ale &. Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Club Rum.
Dog Head Stout. King's Liqueur Whisky.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordial?.
THE BESSES O’
THE POCKET
have gone, but the
Besses o’ the Pocket
have come to stay.
ACK
OR)
Built to Beat the Band
<| The Reeds are made
of Bell Metal, and
are Tuned to Perfec-
..
Crackaiack Mouth Organs
MADE in six styles
Crackajack Professional, 40 Reeds, 3/- Crackajack Double, 40 Reeds ... 1/-
Crackajack Senior, 20 Reeds . . . 2/- Boss Cracker, 20 Reeds ....... 1/-
Crackajack Junior, 20 Reeds . . . 1/6 Crackajack Cadet, 20 Reeds .... 6d.
SOLD EVERYWHERE
Sole Agents ALLAN & CO. PROP. LTD. Melbourne
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original anti Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with eacii
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
-1/I£, 2/9 & 4/6
Checks and
arrests Fever,
Croup, Ague.
The Best
Remedy
known for
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
D/AR
like a charm in
GEA, and is the only
ict DYSENTERY.
Dinneford's]
Magnesia
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see that
"Dinneford &Co.”
is on every bottle
and label.
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
ENO S ‘FRUIT SALT’
A HOUSEHOLD REMEDY FOR
All Functional Derangements of the Liver, Tempo-
rary Congestion arising from Alcoholic Beverages,
Errors in Diet (Eating or Drinking), Biliousness,
Sick Headache, G-iddiness, Vomiting, Heartburn,
Sourness of the Stomach, or Constipation. It is
a Refreshing and Invigorating Beverage, most
Invaluable to Travellers, Emigrants, Sailors, and
Residents in Tropical Climates.
Enos fruit Salt' assists the Functions of the Liver, Rowels, Skin and Kidneys
by Natural Means. There is no dount that, where it has been taken in the earliest
stages of a disease, it has. in innumerable instances, prevented a serious illness.
CAUTION.- Examine the Capsule and see that it is marked ENO'S 'FRUIT SALT'
otherwise you have the sincerest forni of flattery-IMITATION. ’
Prepared only by J. C. ENO. Ltd., ‘FRDIT SALT’ WORKS, Iioiiflo".
S.E., Eng., by J. C. ENO S Patent.
Sold py Chemists and Stores everywhere.
An Imperative Need.
Until you are free from the tendency to constipation you are
bound to suffer from the symptoms —torpid liver, inactive
kidneys, delicate stomach, loss of appetite, indigestion, bilious-
ness, headache, feverishne s, and the rest. In your condition
Cockle’s Pills are an imperative need. They will not only
speedily ease you of the distressing symptoms named, but will
recruit the impaired system, repair the whole alimentary tract,
and minimise the liability to a congested state of the organs.
Don’t resort to drastic purgatives.
PILLS
'Well Regulated fan] Hies
are fully alive to the importance of being prepared for those troublesome
attacks of Indigestion and kindred ailments common to all, and of effectively
dealing with them in the early stages before they have become dangerous
or chronic. Well regulated families are careful to have always a sound
reliable remedy immediately available, and as experience has clearly proved
the undoubted superiority of Beecham’s Pills as a family medicine, a box of
this invaluable corrective is always kept at hand. For removing such
distressing disorders as Dyspepsia, Biliousness, Liver troubles in general,
and Constipation, it is ever the wisest and most satisfactory course to
Jake
Beecham’s Pills. The remedial properties of these pills, however, are not
limited to the cure of digestive troubles alone, but exercise a specific and
beneficial influence upon the nervous system. Well regulated families are
aware that there is no finer tonic, nor any more certain means of banishing
disease from the household than may be secured by a judicious and regular
use of
Bcectoi’s pills.
Sold everywhere in boxes, price ///£ (56 pills) & 219 (168 pills).
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY.
GOUT. RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA. LUMBAGO,
NEURALGIA.
Is
GOUT AND
RHEUMATIC
They Always C>
The only true, and safe remedy for Gout and
Rheumatism that has stood the test of time
All Chemists and Stores at t/t J & 2/9 per box
Proprietors, PROUT & Co., 229. Strand.
London. England
8 5 0 5 10 0
3 10 0 1 17 6
5 10 0 4 17 6
During the Progress of our GREAT REMOVAL
SALE we are offering the following
Usual Price. Sale Price
Double - Barrelled, Breech - loading
Guns, engine-turned rib, left bar-
rel full choke, right modified, re-
bounding locks and pistol grip.
Trial £5 '2 6 £3 12 6
Single-Barrel Duck Guns, large bore,
to kill at 100yds; Trial
Single-Barrel, Hantmerless, Breech-
loading Guns, choke bore, excellent
stock. Trial
Double - Barrelled, Breech - loading
Guns.with Greener patent wedge
fast cross bolt, choke bore, walnut
stock, pis ol grip, patent cartridge
ejector. Trial..
Special Pigeon Guns, with patent:
side clips, file cut rib, top lever,
choke bore, specially selected wal-
nut stock, Greener patent wedge
fast cross bolt. Trial .. .. 10 0 0 7 10 0
Mauser Principle Rifles, 22 calibre,
kill at 300yds. Trial .. .. 15 0 13 6 !
Guns by All Makers in Stock.
Write for Special Sale Catalogue.
ALL ORDERS FOR GUNS AND RIFLES DE-
LIVERED CARRIAGE PAID TO ANY ADDRESS I
IN AUSTRALASIA.
vSmall Arms Co. j
Gunsmiths &. Importers.
139 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE j
Superior to
INJECTIONS
CUBEBS and
Copaiba.
Cures the same
diseases without
inconvenience
in
48 hours
Each Capsule bears the name
m
/As
' Bro
Borated Goldenseal
Compound
A safe and simple remedy fori
Bronchitis, Catarrh, Hay Fever 1
' X
n seal \
miedy for\ .
Hay Fever *■“
Inflammations, Irritations, ulcer-
ations of ALL mucous membranes
or linings of tlio nose, throat,
stomach or urinary organs.
AT CHEMISTS
Why not cure yourself
Treatise w 1 th jach bottle
or mailed on request.
. The Enos Chemical
Cmcanali, Ohio,
U.S.A.
rself -
bottle
uost.
al Co. /
CANT
B
BEAT
RIAR
PIPES
ACL SHAPES
l/- EACH POST FREE \fZ
i Quality Not Better
I in a
I Guinea Pipe
MICK SIMMONS
SYDNEY.
'sTOKEAEEPEKSj, raBACCOMsn
should sexd pop oupthadeusi
FROOTOIDS
Cure Headache, Indigestion, Constipa-
tion, and Biliousness. They are elegant
in appearance and pleasant to take;
they are immensely more valuable than
an ordinary aperient; they remove from
the blood, tissues, and internal organs,
waste poisonous matter that is clogging
them and choking the channels that lead
to and from them. Frootoids are
THE BEST
aperient medicine to take when any
Congestion or Blood Poison is present,
or when Congestion of the Brain or
Apoplexy is present or threatening. They
have been tested, and have been proved
to afford quick relief in such cases when
other aperients have not done any good
at all. Frootoids are absolutely un-
rivalled for
FAMILY
use ; their beneficial effects are evident
by the disappearance of headache—a
bright cheery sense of perfect health
taking the place of sluggish depressed
feelings, by the liver acting properly, and
by the food being properly digested.
Frootoids are a very economical
MEDICINE.
A dose taken once a week, at bed-time,
is highly beneficial. They act splendidly
on the Liver. A constipated habit of
body will be completely cured if the
patient will on each occasion, when
suffering, take a dose of Frootoids in-
stead of an ordinary aperient. The
sufferer thus gradually becomes quite
independent of Aperient Medicines.
Price 1/6. From all Chemists and
Medicine Vendors, and W. G. Hearne &
Co.. Ltd.. Geeiong, Victoria.
YOU REQUIRE A STIMULANT.
Doctors recommend Port Wine for Invalids.
V.A.V.BudgerreePort
Nature,'s Gift.
IAY?
fills this prescription.
(Refuse substitutes.)
Don’t think it is too cheap.
Buy a bottle and compare
with other brands at a greater
cost.
The secret is—we grow,
make and bottle this Wine,
thereby saving you middle-
men’s profits.
If your hotel or store does
not stock “Budgerree Port,”
send us a P. 0.0, for 18s.,
and we will forward you a
dozen properly packed with-
out delay.
VICTORIAN ASSOCIATED
VINEYARDS CO.,
Growers and Merchants,
Basement, 78 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
And at 19 McKILLOP STREET, MELBOURNE, VIC.


p
4
Mechanical Rubber Goods.
We manufacture at our Drurn-
moyne factory all rubber goods
required for engineering pur-
poses, and are able to ensure
prompt and satisfactory de-
livery of all orders.
If you require anything in the
way of Packings, Hose, Sheet
Rubber, Valves, Linings,
Tubings, Washers, Rings,
Springs, etc., you should ask
us for estimates, or write for a
free copy of our Mechanical
List No. 13. It will pay you
to get it and keep it by you
for reference. Write for a
copy to-day.
PERDRIAU RUBBER CO., LTD.,
“The Best House for All Rubber Goods,"
270 George Street, Sydney.
REFPSE DESTRUCTION.
Combined Electricity and
Destructor Undertaking's
are becoming general. The “ HEENAN ” Patent is the last thing in
Refuse Destruction—
PAYS FOR ITSELF IN A FEW YEARS.
Full particulars on application to
aus a t q r e a nc a y s ! an T. K. STEANES, 39 Pitt Street, Sydney. [4
'Fibro-Cement
WHAT 13 IT? Portland Cement, rein-
forced with Asbestos. It has the strength and
durability of concrete, and the cool and fire-proof
quality of Asbestos. It is, therefore, strong,
light, durable, Cool, ant- and fire-proof, artistic in
appearance.
Made in Slates for roofing, Red, Qrey and Purple.
In Sheets Bft. 2Ain. x 4ft. for Walls, Lining
and Ceilings.
Used by the Australian Governments ; also for covering
Churches, Villas, Homesteads, Dairies, Silos, etc.
Write for Illustrated Catalogue “B” to Sole Importers,
JAMES HARDIE & CO.,
Circular Quay West, SYDNEY ; and
581=583 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS-New
Series, IV.. V., VI. Packet of Twelve, 6d;
Packet of 1 Ten. sd.
WOLFE’S
The Family Stimulant.
FOR MEN
FOR WOMEN
“SENTINEL
JUNIOR.”
SIMPLE
ENGINE.
DIRECT
DRIVING
A DYNAMO
FOR
ELECTRIC
LIGHTING
PURPOSES.
m
SEND FOR CATALOGUES.
SENTINEL
AIR COMPRESSORS
Special Designs to meet all requirements.
HIGH-SPEED ENGINES
Economical in Steam Consumption and Thoroughly Reliable.
HIGH-PRESSURE STEAM TRAPS
The Best High-Pressure Trap now in use.
Feed Water Filter S Oil Separator
* Simple and Efficient, with large Filtering Surface.
J WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR, Ltd ,
82 Pitt Street, Sydney; Prell’s Buildings, Mel-
bourne; and 228-30 Elizabeth Street, Brisbane.
ENGINEERS,
IRON FOUNDERS,
BOILER MAKERS,
&Cajp &Gi
MEPHAN FERGUSON
PROPRIETARY LIMITED.
Governing Directors
MEPHAN FERGUSON
ROBERT SHAND
Head Office and Works:
Gordon St., Footscray, Victoria.
Manufacturers of
WROUGHT IRON,
CAST IRON, and
STEEL PIPES.
Contra /
(3236
\5221
ELECTRICAL MINING MACHINERY SPECIALISTS
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LIMITED-
AGENTS FOR ERNEST SCOTT & MOUNTAIN, LIMITED , GATESEND ON TYNE, ENGLAND.
162 Clarence St.,
SYDNEY.
POWER TRANSMISSION APPLIANCES—
Wood and Steel Split Pulleys, Shafting,
Adjustable Hangers, Post Bearings,
Plummer Blocks, Couplings, Collars, Etc.
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
write for price lists. 60 Clarence Street, Sydney.
a
263 George St., Sydney.
525 Collins St., Melbourne.
ROAD
“The Champion.”
FOR m m •
Fire-Break Making,
Corse and Tussock Cutting,
Drain and Road Making.
Send for Descriptive Matter.
mmmmm
No. 65. Weight 2201 b. 2to 6 Horses.
PLOUGHS.
“The Champion”
Earth Scoops, etc.,
Railroad Ploughs,
Rock Crushers.
CONSULT US.
