

Ike EMBODIMENT OF PERFECTION-
R. G. WATKINS & 00.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
iwr ■ * —for—
Mining ancl Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY.
NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
W&9W, .battle fr &f
Gibson, Battle Road=
Making Machinery
Adopted by 28 Councils.
535 Kent Street, Sydney,
486 Collins Street, Melbourne,
B.A. Agent: C. C. DELAND, Victoria Square, Adelaide.
idley’s Orient jjotel.
PIONEER
LEATHER BELTING *V.
Guaranteed.
J. C. Lucfowici <& Son, Ld.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
sfdg
Take it back.
I must have
HUTTON’S
finc-Applc Brand
HAMS ®
BACON.
CHUBB’S SAFES
with PATENT ASBESTOS INNER DOORS.
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets is
recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the diges-
tive organs.
J
HANSENS
sdf
fo, INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially-prepared Tablets acts most
beneficially when taken daily after meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
VJ
J-yYt4
279 George Street Sydney .
>VV> v
Money advanced upon all Securities at Reasonable
Rates of Interest.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
THIS COMPANY WAS FORMED TO SUPPRESS USURY.
And at MELBOURNE, BRISBANE and NEWCASTLE.
DRINK
♦
BECK’S LAGER BEER
PABCO
(Asbestos Coated Malthoid).
The White Roof—the Cool Roof—the Best
Roof for the Australian climate is
P A B C O.
A scientific blending of Asbestos with the
famous Malthoid Roofing embodying the
virtues of both.
THE PARAFFINE PAINT COMPANY, CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
D. S. Evans, Australasian Manager.
HOPPER WAGGONS.
IQAD-MAKINC PLANTS
A SPECIALTY.
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY L TD
g
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY L T °
Locomotive Builders,
General, Mining and
Agricultural
Engineers.
Bridge Builders,
_ IMPERIAL
Oil Tractor
c? 6 'TTUtcA
l&iasi, tstoxAum^
~Vi/ill&dU6wAjL Z(c)cdcA£,A>
H<rLvt6,
XojfatVirtue £ti
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
7 Bent St. (op. Lands Ottice) Sydney, N.S. W
mm vds Noamti
A French savant says that the great value of a mineral water lies 1
in what it deports rather than in what it Imports into the system* J
DEWHURST § HALLORAN, Ltd..
Agents.
The Bulletin
V01.32.—N0. 1652.1
[Thursday, October 12, 1911.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,


The Only Standard Work on Factory Organisation and Costs Ever Published
FACTORY ORGANISATION AND COSTS
By J. LEE NICHOLSON. 1
Treats on Organisation and Cost Finding, Wage Systems, Analysis of Cost and Aeoountino- re.t -u *. .
Indirect Expenses, General Intro, to Forms and Systems, Designs and Explanations PnrmU ° o b ’— ngr °*
Raw Material, Cost Records, and many other chapters of great interest ’ Purohase Requisitions,
16 Page Prospectus Posted to Any Address on Request.
George Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd., 238 Pitt Street, Sydney.
HUDSON’S
“EUMENTHOL JUJUBES.”
The Great Antiseptic and Prophylactic,
contains no cocaine or other poisonous
drug.
For COUGHS, COLDS, SORE THROATS,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA, and the
PREVENTION OF CONSUMPTION.
The Lancet Laboratory report is conclusive evidence
of the vaiue of “ Eumenthol Jujubes as an Antiseptic.”
The Lancet says :—“ Proved to be as effective
bactericidallv as is creosote.”
sdfg
A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
C. The Bronchial
Tubes of a dis-
sected Lung.
D. A Lobe of one
of the Lungs.
Sold by all Chemists, post free on receipt of 1/6 stamps.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL COMPANY, LTD., 19 York Street, SYDNEY.
the Australian States, New Zealand, and at 320 Regent Street, London.
Agencies in all
The RED PAGE
Verses by Andrew Lang
THE ODYSSEY.
As one that for a weary space has lain
Lulled by the song of Circe and her wine
In gardens near the pale of Proserpine,
Where that AEaean isle forgets the main,
And only the low lutes of love complain,
And only shadows of wan lovers pine,
As such an one were glad to know the
brine
Salt on his lips, and the large air again,—
So gladly, from the songs of modern speech
Men turn, and see the stars, and feel the
free
Shrill wind beyond the close of heavy
flowers,
And through the music of the languid
hours,
They hear like ocean on a western beach
The surge and thunder of the Odyssey.
S'
PARTANT POUR LA SCRIBIE.
(Scribie,. on the north-east littoral of Bohemia, is
the land of stage conventions. It is named after the
discoverer, M. Scribe.)
A pleasant land is Scribie, where
The light comes mostly from below,
And seems a sort of-«ymbol rare
Of things at large, and how they go,
In rooms where doors are everywhere
And cupboards shelter friend or foe.
This is a realm where people tell
Each other, when they chance to meet,
Of things that long ago befell—
And do most solemnly repeat
Secrets they both know very well,
Aloud, and in the public street!
A land where lovers go in fours,
Master “and mistress, man and maid;
Where people listen at the doors
Or neath a table’s friendly shade,
And comic Irishmen in scores
Roam o’er the scenes all undismayed c
A kind where Virtue in distress
Owes much to uncles in disguise;
Where British sailors frankly bless
Their limbs, their timbers, and their eyes ;
And where the villain doth confess,
Conveniently, before he dies!
A land of lovers false and gay;
A land_where people dread a “curse”:
A land of letters gone astray,
Ur intercepted, which is worse;
where weddings false fond maids betray,
And all the babes are changed at nurse.
OA> happy land, where things come right!
We of the world where things go ill;
Where lovers love, but don’t unite;
Where no one finds the Missing Will—
-Dormmon of heart’s delight,
Scribie, we’ve loved, and love thee still!
BALLADE OF THE SOUTHERN CROSS.
Fair islands of the silver fleece,
Hoards of unsunned, uncounted gold,
W hose heavens are the haunts of Peace,
Whose boys are in our quarrel bold ;
Uur bolt is shot, our tale is told,
Our ship of state in storms may toss,
But ye are young if we are old,
Ye islands of the Southern Cross!
Ay, we must dwindle and decrease—
Such fates the ruthless years unfold;
And yet we shall not wholly cease,
Yv e shall not perish unconsoled;
N ay, still shall Freedom keep her hold
Within the sea’s inviolate fosse,
And boast her sons of England mould,
Ye islands of the Southern Cross!
All empires tumble —Rome and Greece—
Their swords are rust, their altars cold !
For us, the children of the Seas,
Who ruled where’er the waves have rolled,
h or us, in Fortune’s book enscrolled,
I read no runes of hopeless- loss ;
Nor —while ye last —our knell is tolled,
Ye islands of the Southern Cross !
Envoy.
Britannia, when thy hearth’s a-cold,
When o’er thy grave has grown the moss,
Still Rule Australia shall be trolled
In islands of the Southern Cross!
THE MOON’S MINION.
(Fbom the Pkose of Bavdelaiee. )
Thine eyes are like the sea, my dear,
The wand’ring waters, green and grey;
Thine eyes are wonderful and clear,
And deep and deadly, even as they;
The spirit of the changeful sea
Informs thine eyes at night and noon,
She sways the tides, and the heart of thee
The mystic, sad, capricious moon!
The moon came down the shining stair
Of clouds that fleck the summer sky;
She kissed thee, saying, “Child, be fair,
And madden men’s hearts even as I;
Thou shalt love all things strange and sweet,
That know me and are known of me;
The lover thou shalt never meet,
The land where thou shalt never be!”
She held thee in her chill embrace,
She kissed thee with cold lips divine,
She left her pallor on thy face,
That mystic, ivory face of thine;
And now I sit beside thy feet, .
And all my heart is far from thee,
Dreaming of her I shall not meet
And of the land I shall not see!
Andrew Lang
Someone enquired recently whether An-
drew Lang was still writing fairy tales, anc
whether he had written anything else. The
enquirer, probably, is young, and only ac-
quainted with the name of Lang through
the colored volumes, in which are to be
found the best fairy lore from many lands.
Lang has written fairy tales of his own, now
out of print, and at least one, Prince Prigio,
is worth a place with those which he has
translated or edited so successfully. He has
written other things—poems, translations,
parodies, novels, short stories, histories,
biographies, essays, and has written
about ' a great variety of subjects. At
one time he held, and may still hold,
the record for separate entries in the
British Museum catalogue. So multi-
farious are the works of Lang that he is
charged with being a syndicate. But, such
is Fame, he may be remembered the day
after to-morrow only as editor of Fairy
Tales.
This champion Odd Job Man of literature
was “Andrew of the brindled hair” to Ste-
venson, and was in the flood-tide of produc-
tivity when his fellow-Scot “arrived,” witli
Henley, Dobson and Gosse a quarter cen-
tury ago. The years have not left much of
the brindle, for his age is' on the musty side
of 60. Doubtless he is still at work, as his
Short History of Scotland is announced.
He has already made a long one, and Scot-
land stands where it was.
ANDREW LANG
A few months back he issued a selection of
Ballades and Rhymes (Longmans, 2s, 6d.),
taken from volumes of which the first was'
printed 30 years ago. The author remarks
sadly in the introduction:—
Looking- back at the little book ‘what
memories it stirs’ in one to whom
. Fate has done this wrong
lliat I should write too much and live too
long.”
Certainly he has survived the day when
ballades and rondeaus were popular. “The
sonnet,” he says, “endures... .A few great
poets have written immortal sonnets. ... On
the other hand, no man since Francois
Villon has been immortalised by a single
ballade Mats ok sent les tieiges d' ant an { ”
Though the form has been soiled by ignoble
use, there is still pleasure in it when filled
gracefully and flippantly. Lang’s skill with
it was less than that of Dobson and Henley;
but his fame as a versifier does not depend
upon the fixed forms alone. He was at his
best in translation, and some of the finest
specimens are in Ballads and Lyrics of Old
l ranee, which was for a long time inacces-
sible, save in Mosher’s pirated edition. It
has lately been reprinted in the same style
as Ballades and Rhymes, and is sold for half
a crown.
A few of the verses are quoted on this
page. They may be familiar to some readers,
but there is always a new generation com-
ing along, and if they like these, the price
of a Tattersall s ticicet will procure them two
prizes of certain enjoyment.
Many short poems are left in the old
volumes, which would make a new book
worth having—innocent trifles such as the
Ballade of Difficult Rhymes” :
With certain rhymes ’tis jiard to deal;
For “silver’ we have ne'er a rhyme
On “orange” (as on orange peel)
" r h'e bard has slipped full many a time.
With babe there’s scarce a sound will chime
Iho ugh astrolabe fits like a glove;
But ye that on Parnassus climb,
Why, why are rhymes so rare to Love?
and the “Tourney of the Heroes,” wherein
the knights of old romance did battle with
the David Grieves and Daniel Derondas of
modern fiction :
And goodly Porthos, as of old the famed
Orthryades,
Raises the trophy of the fight, then, falling
on his knees, a
He writes in gore upon his shield, “Romance,
Romance lias won!”
And blood-red on that stricken field goes
down the angry sun.
Night falls upon the field of death, night on
the darkling lea ;
Oh send us suen a tournav soon, and send
me there to see !
This also is worth preserving from a budge
of translations of the gems of the Greek An
thology. It is Meleager’s lament for Helio
dore, freely paraphrased :
Tears for my lady dead
Heliodore!
Sait tears and sad to shed
Over and o'er!
Tears to my lady dead.
Love do we send,
Longed for, remembered,
Lover and friend!
Sad are the songs we sing,
Tears that we shed,
Empty the grace we bring,
Gifts to the dead !
Go, tears, and go, lament,
Ear from her tomb,
Wend where my lady went
Down through the gloom!
Ah, for my flower, my love,
Hades hath taken,
Ah, for the dust above
Scattered and shaken!
Mother of all things born,
Earth in thy breast
Lull her that all men mourn
Gently to rest!
Lang’s lengthiest performance in verse is
Helen of Troy, first published in 1882. The
tale is told in about 350 eight-line stanzas,
which are langorous in movement, reminis-
cent of parts of The Earthly Paradise, and
without any conspicuous original note. -The
heroine is the traditional Helen, save that
she is made the unwilling victim of the
gods. She is also made to mix metaphors
in replying to Aphrodite :
Is it thy will that like a golden cup
From lip to lip of heroes I must go,
And be but as a banner lifted up
To beckon where the winds of war may
blow V
These stanzas near the end by way of illus-
tration
How many a strength hath fallen since thy
fall,
Ah, Troy! yet still must men remember
thee,
Though none doth weep o’er Corinth’s
funeral,
Nor Carthage left forsaken by the sea,
Orcliomenos, nor Thebes, nor Nineveh !
All these have been and are not, but the fate
Or Troy that never was, how wondrously
It moves our hearts in these swift years and
late!
A castle built in Cloud-land ; or at most
A crumbling clay-fort on a windy hill,
Where needy men might flee a robber host,
This, this was Troy! And yet she holds
us still;
And 1 that rhyme, right sore against my
. will.
And lingering long before the words of woe,
This ending of my task must I fulfil,
And tell the tale of Ilios’ overthrow.
The first half of the last stanza is about the
highest mark reached by Lang in origina
verse.
Few men of to-day are so well acquainted
with Homer and the literature relating tc
him as Lang, and he is partly responsible
for the best of all translations of the
Odyssey. There is less satisfaction with the
Lang, Leaf and Myers versioh. of the Iliad.
On his own account Lang made a transla-
tion of the idylls of Theocritus, Jiion and
Moschus into English prose, which is likely
to remain unapproached in excellence for
many a day.
There are so many Langs—-one can’t at-
tempt to appraise them all. the an-
thropologist, folk-lorist and glmst-lorist
doesn’t count to the present writer. Lang
the novelist came near success in The Dis-
entanglers and some of In the Wrong Para-
dise. His Tennyson was a job done toler-
ably well, and his Life and Letters of Lock-
hart remains to be read.
While translation is, perhaps, his finest
achievement, Lang is most attractive as a
gossipy essayist on books and bookmen, or
parodist of dead authors. With all his learn-
ing he is no pedant. He touches life at
many points, is a good sport—at least he
writes cheerfully about cricket, fishing and
golf—and if his judgments are noK pro-
found, they are usually sane. He has his
prejudices. A romantic to the core, he can
sec no good in the realists, and shares the
delight of ordinary mortals in stories
“wropped in mystery’’—-in “Miss Braddon
and Gaborieau.’’ How hearty is his praise
of Dumas in Letters to Dead Authors !
The brilliance of your dialogue has never
been approached: tnere is wit everywhere;
repartees glitter and ring like the flash and
clink of small swords. Then what duels are
yours! And what inimitable battle-pieces!
I know four good fiahts of one against a
mult, tude in literature. These are the Death
of Greter the Strong, the Death of Gunnar
of Lithend, the Death of Hereward the
Wake, and the Death of Bussy d’Amboise.
We can compare the strokes of the heroic
fighting times with those described in later
days, and upon m.y word I do not know that
the short sword of Greter or the bill of Skar-
phedin. or the bow of Gunnar, was better
wielded than the rapier of your Bussy, or
the sword and shield of Kingsley’s Hereward.
The parodies in Old Friends, letters from
one fictional character to another, are amaz-
ingly clever. Isn’t this bit of a letter to
Betsey Prig very like the original Sairey?
Whereby Mrs. Harris, she have often said
.What do them blessed infants oc-
eupy theu- little minds with afore they are
called into that condition where, unless
changed at nuss, Providence have appointed
mem.' And many a time have 1 said-
keek not, Mrs. Harris, to diskiver, for we
know not wot’s hidden in our own hearts
and the torters of the Imposition should not
make me diwulge it.”
Amongst other things, Lang has obligingly
explained How to Fail in Literature , an
article which should be in the hands of everv
aspirant. J
He has told elsewhere of his own methods
of work, which are that he has none. He
does not use books of reference, nor trouble
to verify a quotation; and naturally he
has often gone astray. His sentences com-
monly hold quotations in solution, which is
characteristic of a writer who has read
much and has thought little. Still, Andrew
Lang, as a very charming introducer to big-
ger men, has rendered a considerable ser-
vice to literature. May he live long!
♦
OF HIS LADY’S OLD AGE.
(Rqnsakd, 1550.)
When you are very old, at evening,
You’ll sit and spin beside the fire and say
Humming my songs, “Ah'well, ah well-a-
day!
When I was young of me did lionsard sing.”
.None of your maidens that doth hear the
thing,
Albeit with her weary task foredone,
Hut wakens at my name, and call you one
Llest, to be held in long remembering.
I shall be low beneath the earth, and laid
On sleep, a phantom in the myrtle shade,
While you beside the fire, a grandame grey,
My love, your pride, remember and regret -
Ah, love me, love! We may be happy yet,
And gather roses while ’tis called to-day.
♦
With the Lost Legion in New Zealand,
by “Maori Browne” (Colonel G. Hamilton-
Browne) is a book which, without being a
well written book, is never dull, and "is alto-
gether valuable. He himself calls it a
“badly-written yarn,” but there are any
amount of well written yarns that are not
so worth reading as this. It is history
thrown into the form of a story, and is a
plain, obviously truthful and interesting con-
tribution to the scanty literature of the
fierce wars which were the birth-pangs of
the present-day Maoriland. Its author de-
scribes the part he took in a campaign of a
sort that has never been equalled for hard-
ship and danger. Apart from the personal
interest which belongs to the tale of Col.
Browne's adventures while fighting the Ilau
Haus and chasing .Te Ivooti, the book has
justification for its existence in the fact that
it is a useful footnote to military history.
Exact and accurate accounts of the Maori
Wars do not give the reader half so clear, a
notion of their nature as does this unpre-
tentious, slangy, straightforward and fas-
cinating narrative. . . Published by Werner
Laurie. " ' '
C. R. Fletcher and Rudyard Kipling have
been wafioped by a good many English re-
viewers for their astonishing History of Eng-
land. Its colloquial style offended most of
them; its significant omissions condemn it
tor others. John Masefield jumps on it in
Manchester (Guardian for its crude
.Jingoism, and says: “It is little more than a
glorification of bloody and violent deeds. . .
As a work of history it is nearly as worth-
less as a book can be; as a work designed to
influence the minds of children it is the most
pernicious we have seen.” One, of Mase-
field s quotations, with an omitted middle, is
a beauty :
A monster of cruelty and selfishness?
les, Henry was just that He was a
great patriot, a great Englishman.”
About 25 printed pages, which say nothing
new or worth - saynsr.' •mne*”- m t..,- disiiu.-e
ot a book labelled Rudyard Kipling: his Life
, arks,' by Cecil Charles. Samples of '
Charles Cecil’s criticism: “Occasionally his
power to interest is obscured by too great a
wealth of detail. This fault, however, sel-
dom obtrudes itself.... Perhaps his greatest
3P ( ! Jhpst enduring poem is ‘The Recessional.’
it is full of intense, palpitating life, and yet
singularly restrained and refined; it is in
every sense a greht poem, taking in, as it
does, with one mighty sweep the immensity
ot the British Empire, etc.”
Most English _ publishers follow the old
practice of dumping large numbers of books
upon the market at two periods of the year,
lhe autumn season has begun, and the fol-
lowing were among the interesting announce-
ments : Hail and Hair well, more autobio-
graphy, by George Moore; Word Portraits,
a translation of character sketches, by the
famous German editor, Maximilian Harden;
Loom Hood, a new epic, by Alfred Noyes;
tt ec °rd of an Adventurous Life , by H.
M. Ilyndman; Autobiographic Memoirs, by
I rederic Harrison; Tennyson and his
trlends, by various writers, edited by Hal-
lam T.; The Collected Poems of Edmund
Cosse; Peter and Wendy, a new book by
Larne; Across Australia, by Prof. Baldwin
Spencer and F. J. Gillen, a popular account
of the travels which yielded so much good
scientific material.
A line o’ type in last week’s “Page” went astray.
I-n the second paragraph of the first article it was
stated that the Cambridge University Press “took
over Encyclopedia Britannica and has had.” It
should have been “took over the Encyclopedia
Britannica and had.” And “battle of Valley Forge”
should have been “camp.”


a
Summer Fashions for Maids and Matrons
9A
mm
, •
P 9
SOI
6036
/JiVtK.mv Nor,!
3fc
No. P 9 Linen Blouse, pin tucked, fasten
at front
No. 007 —Coat and Skirt Costume, of Fancy White
Pique, with fine stripe in Black, Green and
White, Black and White, finished buttons to
match. Sailor Collar .. .. .1
Similar styles in White Pique, with Black
stripes only, ordinary Collar, with new shaped
Revers and Black Linen Facings.
No. SO20 —Mercerised Spotted Lawn Shirt Blouse
fasten at front, in Grey, Rose, Navy, Black
Saxe
No. SOI —Black Cashmere Blouse, trimmed Witt
Braid, fasten at front
No. 331 —Smart Striped Cambric Shirt Blouse
dressed Cuffs and Collar, in Heliotrope, Saxe
Pink. Green, Navy and Black
No 333—Smart Striped Cambric Shirt Blouse
dressed Cuffs and Collar, in Heliotrope, Pink
Blue, Black, Green and Navy
No. 8036 —Striped Delaine Shirt Blouse, detach
able Collar, fasten at front, in . Rose, Navy
Saxe and Green
13/6
39/0
32/6
6/6
5/6
S/ll
5/6
4/11
y*f n/ %e , s>
/ff/ej
No. H427— Princess Press, of White Soft Bleach
Linen, trimmed Imitation Broderie Anglaise,
also in Saxe Blue .. •• • • •• •;
No. 1018 — Smart Coat and Skirt, of nne All-wool
Summer-weight Coating Serge, trimmed Black
Rat Tail Braiding, Coat unlined, new Panel
Skirt, in Navy ••.,•;
No. 463— Effective Sicilian Coat and Skirt, finished
Black Satin Collar and Cuffs, edged Fancy
•Silk Braid, shaped piece on Hips, trimmed
Black Silk and Russia Braids to match, Coat
lined Cream Silk Polonaise, in Saxe, Rose,
and 'Navy
No. 2216— Black Taffeta Silk Shirt Blouse, finely
pin tucked, fasten at front
23/6
59/6
89/6
17/6
PATRONS who are unable to per-
sonally inspect the Magnificent
Display of the Season’s Latest
Creations shown in the Green Room at
the New Palace Emporium, should con-
sult our Summer Fashion Book. Write
for a copy, posted free on request.
iJM, i
848
857
m i
a
843
«-. 3)
844
No. 857—Children’s Costumes and Costumettes,
Tussore Silk, Princess style, band at neck,
embroidered with silk to match, suitable tor
girls from 4 to 10 years —24in., 10/6; 26in.,
11/6; 28in„ 12/6; 30in. ... • • •• ••
No. 528—Girls’ Costumes, Striped Galatea, yoke
of self material, outlined with Braid to match,
finished leather belt, suitable from 4 to 10
years—size 1, 4/-; 2, 4/6; 3, 5/-; 4, 5/6; 5, 6/-; 6,
No. 848—Children’s Costumettes, fine White Mus-
lin. Magyar stvle. trimmed neck, waist and
sletwes, with fine muslin insertion, elbow
sleeves, suitable from 1 to 3 years—l Bin., 4/3;
20in„ 4/9.; 22in. .. .. ... • :
No 844—Girls’ Costumes, Ivory Silk, trimmed
Valenciennes Insertion, full gathered skirt,
lined through Muslin slip, suitable from 6 to
,14 years—27in„ 18/9; 30in., 19/9; 33in„ 21/-;
36in„ 22/6; 39in • ■ ••
No vBsG—Girls’ Linen Costumes, in pretty shades
of Sky. Pink and Brown, yoke of White
tucked Muslin, outlined at waist and left side
with fancy braid to match, suitable for girls
from 8 to 14 years—27in„ 8/6; 30in.. 9/6;
33in„ 10/6; 30in.. 11/6; 39in • •
Nov 843—Maids’ Costumes, Cream Silk Strips f an-
vas Voile. Magyar style of bodice, pleated
Skirt, elbow sleeves, finished at waist with
deep folded belt of Cream Glace Silk, suitable
' for girls from 14 to 18 years—Skirt length. 30in.,
24/6; 32in., 25/6; 34in„ 26/6: 3fiin
13/6
6/6
5/3
23/6
12/6
27/6
WE are Men’s Outfitters, as well as
Family Drapers and Universal
Providers, and our Illustrated
Price Lists place the immense resources
of the New Palace Emporium at the
command of everyone in Australia.
Send for Price Lists of anything you
want, posted free on request.
m
mm
fMU
%
347
328
315
jy (ojtumej
No. 327—Blouse and Skirt Costume, of self-color
Zephyr, trimmed hemstitched tucks, detach-
able Collar, fasten at front; colors: Pink,
Heliotrope, Saxe, lied, Green, Navy, Grey .. 10/0
No. 315 — Striped Cambric Blouse and Skirt Cos-
tume, trimmed colored pipings to match and
Swiss Insertion, detachable Collar, assorted
stripes .. . . .. .. .. 12/(i Hat, 15/G
No. 328 — Princess Costume of self-color Zephyr,
‘trimmed hemstitching, embroidery and tucks;
colors: Grey. Navy, Red, Saxe .. 12/6 Hat, 15/0
No. 305 — Shirt ' Blouse and Skirt Costume of
striped, soft Cambric; finished self-pipings
and strappings, detachable dressed Collar,
with bow of self Pink, Heliotrope. Saxe and
Navy .. .. .. . . . . 9/11 Hat, 30/-
Simila'r stvles with White Linen detachable Col-
lar, No. 312. Blue and Heliotrope Stripes. 10/6;
No. 319. White and Black Stripes, 11/6; also
with Soft Fixed Collars, No. 301, 7/11; No.
SOS .. 8/11
Blouse and Skirt Costume, of Navy Cambric, with
fine White Stripe detachable dressed self Col-
lar . 8/6
■ :
!'/
t
648
458
No. A GOD — Coat and Skirt, of Cream Sicilian, with
fine Black Stripe, Collar and Cuffs finished
Black S,atine and Buttons, Coat lined Cream
Twill, new Panel Skirt .. •• 49/6 Hat,
No. 648— Coat and Skirt, of Fine Cream Coating
Serge. Collar trimmed Cream Russia and hi at
Silk Braids. Revers and Cuffs of Cream Satin
and Braid, Panel Skirt trimmed Braid to match
No. Blol— Shirt Blouse, Cream Japanese Silk,
fasten in front, trimmed pm and i-inch tucks
No 458 — Sicilian Coat and Skirt, Coat lined with
Twill Silk, and finished Black Satin Collai
and Cuffs, and pleated Black Silk Waist Belt
with Oxidised Fancy Buckle, shaped-Panel
Skirt to match: in Saxe, Navy, Terra Cotta..
30/-
49/6
7/1
84/-
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium»
BricKfield Hill#
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


Arnott’s MilK Arrowroot Biscuits
“THE- CHILDRENS FOOD.”
TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
STEV E. N S
“LITTLE KRAQ” RIFLE NO. 65
BOLT ACTION. SIMPLE CONSTRUCTION.
Weighs pounds. For .22 Long Rifle R. F. Cartridges.
STEVENS RIFLES hold more Records for accuracy than all other
makes combined.
Order
STEVENS
from your
Dealer.
Write for Catalogue to
ARTHUR H. ■ HILL, Australian Represent-
ative for Stevens Arms and Tool Co.,
Box 86, G.P.0., Adelaide, S. Australia.
Send for latest Fire-
arm, Telescope and
Stevens-Pope Cata-
logues.
[4
THE fICCORDEON for Country Residents.
sdfg
We don’t believe any Accordeon conies
so near perfection as the Celebrated
STAR Trombone Accordeon.
It has a powerful tone, handsome ebon ised . case, extra
tars'* bellows protected by Steel corners 2 sets of extra
broad steel bronze reeds. Patent Rotary Celeste Stop.
Price £1
Postage to any Address
in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Extra quality, with 3 sets of Reeds, Celeste and Organ Stop*
15-fold Bellows with steel corners. Price £1 7s. 6d.;
postage to any address in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Other Accordeons from 7/6 to 100/-
HEINDORFF BROS.,
Importers of Pianos and all kinds of Musical
Instruments, Watches, Jewellery, etc.,
210 QUEEN STREET BRISBANE
T 7
Royal
Mothers
use
Ashton & Parsons’
Infants’ Powders
for the
Little Princes and
Princesses
during the time of
teething and for fretfulness
and the many ailments common to infancy
Recommended by H.R.H. The Crown Princess of Roumanla.
MISS FRANKr.IN, c/o Capt. Embury, R.E., Blackdown Corner, near Leamington, writes!
“ I have been asked to write to you by an Austrian Lady, to know if you will send her two boxes,
each containing 100 of your Teething Powders. She says they are the same you have supplied
to the Crown Princess of Roumania, from whom she first heard of them."
ASHTON & PARSONS'
INFANTS' POWDERS
are guaranteed to be perfectly harmless » they cool the gums-comfort the child - produce
a natural, calm, refreshing sleep-render teething quite feasy prevent pain and disorder
hre pleasant to the taste —ate mild and gehtle in action —may be given to the youngest and
test delicate babe “-and there is no possible objection to their frequent and continued use,
sdfg
. * .Supplied by Royal Cottitnana to-*
HIM. THE DOWAGER EMPRESS OF RUSSIA
H.R.H* THE DUCHESS OF FIFE
e.r.h, the crown princess of ROUMANIA
H.I.H. THE GRAND DUCHESS OLGA OF RUSSIA
H R H. PRINCE CAROL OF ROUMANIA
$
H R.H. PRINCESS ALEXANDER HoHENLOHE
o#* Ashton 6? Parsons' Infants’ Powders are guaranteed to bo hamless
Prks ia Great Britain, Boxes, containing ao Powders, t/tii 60 Powders, a/o: too Powders, 4/6,
To be obtained at Chemists and Stores throughout the World.
PROPRIETORS ASHTON & PARSONS, LIMITED, LONDON. E.C, ENGLAND
Reduce the Cost of Trustee Administration by appointing .
THE PERMANENT
or NEW SOUTH WALES,
LIMITED,
TRUSTEE COMPANY
17 O'Connci: St.
SYDNEY.
Incorporated 1888 bj r Special Act of Parliament to act as
Trustees, Executors, Attorneys, Agents, Etc.
ESTATES, PROPERTIES, FUNDS, Etc., MANAGED EFFICIENTLY AND ECONOMICALLY.
Full Particulars on Application.
A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD. Manager.
Congo Roofing is a tough,
pliable water-proof felt. It
can be laid by unskilled la-
bor, and will give ten years
of faultless service.
That “ten years” is ab-
solutely guaranteed by a
free Surety Bond issued with
every roll by the Royal :
Exchange Assurance of
London.
Further details on request.
Congo Damp Course is a
tough felt somewhat similar
to Congo Roofing,, which is
immune from deterioration
by dampness or acids. It is
used for lining the exterior
foundations of buildings to
exclude dampness and ver-
min. It is made in various
widths and is easily applied.
It is the most economical
kind of underground water-
proofing.
AGENTS : —Noyes Bros. (Sydney), Ltd., Sydney ; Noyes Bros.. (Prop.), Ltd., Melbourne ; Brabant & Co.,
Brisbane ; Walter Reid & Co., Rockhampton ; Harrold Colton & Co., Ltd., Adelaide ; Millar’s Karri
& Jarrah Co., Ltd., Perth ; William Hart & Sons, Launceston ; T. A. Tabart, Jr., Hobart, Tasmania.
Will Anprape ~ BOOKS.
Hypnotism,
Mesmerism,
and
Clairvoyance
An Illustrated
Guide for the Amateur,
describing the various
methods adopted by
professors both before
and after Mestner, and
showing how the mystic
power may be developed.
1/-, Post Free 1/2.
Art of Boxing and Self-Defence, 1/2 ; Gold Hunter’s Adventures in Aus-
tralia, 1/9 ; Complete Book of Love Letters, 1/; How to Woo and Win, 1/1;
Astrology Made Easy, 1/1; Money-Making Secrets, 1/1 ; Minstrel Show, 1/1;
Eight Popular Farces, 1/1; Sixteen Amusing Farces, 1/1 ; Thirteen One-Act
Farces, 1/1; Twenty Humorous Dialogues, 1/1; Home Amusements, 1/1;
“ How Old Mose Counted the Eggs ” and 116 Other Humorous Recitations,
1/1 ; Famous Dramatic Recitations, 1/1 ; “ How Socker.v Set a Hen ” and
other Comic Recitations, 1/1 ; Famous Dialect Recitations, 1/1; 1401 Conun-
drums and Riddles, 1/1 ; Art of Ventriloquism, 1/1 ; Hypnotism, Mesmerism
and Cl irvovance, 1/1; Popular Horse and Cattle Doctor, 1/1 ; How to Teach
Aniihal Tricks, 1/1; What Young People Should Know, Confidential Talks,
1/1 ; Dr. Faulkner’s Original Book ofcNtature, the only genuine and complete
edition, 3/6, posted 3/9; New Tricks with Cards, 1/; House Painting, Paper-
hanging, Whitewashing, etc., 1/2; 3000 Priceless Secrets, 1/S; Irish Jokes
and Witty Savings, 9d. ; Complete'Letter Writer for Ladies and Gentlemen,
V; Dancing Without aJi Instructor, 1/; Lover’s Guide to Courtship and
Marriage, 1/; Bernard Macfadderr’s Physical Training, 2/9; Macfadden’s
Building of Vital Power, f>/4 ; Macfadden's Superb Virility of Manhood, S/4;
Macfadden’s Sweethearts for Lives, 5/4 ; Australian Billiard Champion Gray’s
W&-AND ANY BOOK
YOU WANT.
Mention The Bulletin.
Book on Billiards, 1/5 ; Wrestling Instructor,
with 60 Photographic Illustrations, 1/9; Bag
Punching, lOd. ; All Steele Rudd’s Aus-
tralian Books, 1/1 ; Road Map of Victoria,
1/1.
Above prices include postage to any address. Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne
1
CLEMENTS
TONIC
GIVES HEALTH.
MANY members of the theatrical profession
have testified to the health-creating
powers of Clements Tonic. Scarcely
any profession so exactingly demands from its
members so mutch of brain-strength and mental
concentration in the studies of important and
nerve-trying rbles. This extends to members
of Comedy or Drama, also to those of Operatic
Choruses where singing r6les must be perfectly rendered. The letter published below in the
form of a Clements Tonic testimony was received from MISS ALICIJ MITCHELL, a
member of the J. C. Williamson New Comic Opera Company, who lately appeared at the
Theatre Royal, Sydney. Miss Mitchell, who keeps- in the best of health by using Clements
Tonic, speaks of it as follows :
“CLEMENTS TONIC LTD ,
“After taking your valuable tonic for some
considerable time during an extended tour of the
Commonwealth and Now Zealand, / find myself
in perfect health, and strongly recommend this
medicine to anyone run down or suffering from
over-taxation of the nerv&s* l also fihd it' keeps
the singing voice clear and strong*
"(Signed) ALICE MITCHELL.’’
Throughout Australia demerits Toftie is used in ptofemWi &h<Tits value as a health
restorer appreciated. The merits df this medicine are voicda by those who speak from practical
knowledge of its strength*creating powers. Miss jMiitchell is but one of hundreds who voice
their opinions thus, and who also recommend thi.-* me»3iditi*e because they know by BENEh ITS
received that in giving it to their side friends they ;a : re giving them the medium to something
beyond price, lasting and robust health* All CJf£ flfiists *&nd Stores sell Clements ionic.


Do
You
Want
~y.
Long, Heavy Hair?
Then treat your hair well. See
that it is properly fed. Growth
of every kind demands proper
food. Starved hair splits at the
ends, turns prematurely gray,
keeps short and dry. Then feed
your hair. Feed it with proper
food, a regular hair-food. Feed
it with Ayer’s Hair Vigor. Thus
help nature all you possibly can
toward giving you rich, heavy,
luxuriant hair. Ask your doctor
about your hair and about Ayer’s
Hair Vigor. Follow his advice.
Ayer’s Hair Vigor
DOES NOT COLOR THE HAIR
Prepared by Dr. J. C, Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U, S, A.
RHEUMATISM
mm
Packets, 3d., 6d. and Is
r?A
TEN DAYS’ FREE TRIAL.
Packed Free. All charges Prepaid to your
.Port direct from our Factory. Highest*
grade British-made MEAD
Co v Fly ers
WARRANTED FIFTEEN YEARS.
Defiance Puncture-Resisting or Dunlop
Tyres, Coasters, Variable-Speed Gears,
Flyer or Brook’s Saddles, etc.
MODELS £3.10 to £9
Tyres and accessories half usual prices.
APPMTQ wanted in each district. Write
Audi 1 u at once, using sufficient postage,
for Free Art Catalogue and our
Special Offer on sample machine.
sdf
MEAD
CYCLE COMPANY,
Dent. 280, LIVERPOOL-
■ * ,
:
V» j
m
Always
Reliable.
I The reliability of Eley Cartridges
f has been demonstrated again and
again on range and field. To day
Eley Cartridges are chosen by the
most critical of sportsmen in every
quarter of the world.
Eley Cartridges are the perfect out-
come of 82 years of ammunition-
making experience.
THE ELEY
FOURTEN’
IS JUST THE
CARTRIDGE
required for use in orchards. It does not
damage the trees, the recoil is very light,
and it is specially adapted for Indies
and boys’ use. Loaded with Eley
* Smokeless Powder.
Other Eley favorites include :
12-bore Eley “ PLUTO ”33 grs. Eley
Smokeless Powder and 11-IGoz.
Shot.
12-bore Eley “ ROCKET ” 42 grs.
Eley Smokeless Powder and
11-Boz. Shot.
Obtainable through all
Gunmakers and Dealers.
ELEY BROS. LTD.,
London.
BONNINGTON’S WILL ANSWER YES
$
e °nW?°“
MOSS
IRISH
Sold Everywhere.
1/6 <a 2/6.
to the question—is it the best ? Yes it is undoubtedly the
best Cough Remedy that skill and purest ingredients can
produce. This preparation has been curing Coughs
and Colds for upwards of 45 years, and although numer-
ous imitations have appeared front time to time none
have stood against “Bonnington’s’' of 40 years fame.
BONNINCTON’S
Irish Moss.
The ideal family medicine is equally
beneficial for Adults or Children.
Mothers can give it to the little ones
with every confidence as it is entirely
free from harmful narcotics.
Do not take imitations—just.ask for “BONNINGTON’S” and
see that you get it.
HCIO**
HO5 5
IRISH
Richardson Cushion Frame, Anti-Jar Ball
Bearing: Roller Skates.
Used exclusively in all of the largest and most, successful links in America,
and by all the Champions of the World, fast, and fancy. RICHARDSON
SKATES have held all World’s Records for "24 years. Write for Catalogue.
Tells how to open and operate Xtoller Rinks.
Richardson Ball-Bearing: Skate Co., 311 Michigran Street, Chicago, U.S. A.
gsd
“RICHARDSON"
CHICAGO
(1403.)
3-C
)
FLAT-CHESTED WOMEN!
Misfortune may Lave been your lot in so far as natural de-
velopment was concerned, but science Las found a way to cor-
rect your deficiency. Even though you Lave never been full-
bosomed, and although you have been attenuated all your
life, if you suffer from no wasting disease your bosom can be
fully developed and your weight increased to normal.
It is the refreshing firmness and delightful fulness of the
feminine form that captivates, and the woman who is most
perfectly developed is the one who monopolises the endear-
ments of the opposite sex.
No woman need fjtay thin and undeveloped. Dr. Ealliere’s
Flesh-Food is a harmless, perfect, flesh-builder. It increases
the vitality find improves the general health. Some cases re-
port a gain in weight of over five pounds a week. Send 2d.
stamp for a free trial sample and free book.
I'ALLIERE FLESH-FOOD CO., UO3 Ash Street,- Sydney (rear Equitable Life Building).
£2O FREE
EVERY WEEK!'
Try to Solve
this Puzzle.
EVERY WEEK we give away Cash Order Prizes that
average over £lOOO a year—or its equivalent in high-class
■jewellery—to persons who are willing to use their brains
'and talents. If you can And the “boss” in this picture,
mark it and send it to us. If correct we will send you a
Cash Order for your portion of this week’s allotment, and
full particulars of our conditions. Under them you can
win many articles of jewellery— Gold Watches and
Chains, Rings, Bangles, Guns, Cuff-Links, etc., etc.
This offer is made to advertise our famous Electine
Pills four kinds, for which successful contestants may
become our agents. Eight packets sent with Cash Order.
No successful contestant ever received less than a Four
Shilling Order. This offer open for limited time only.
This farm hand is diligently work-
ing because his Employer is near,
though hidden. Find the Employer.
rx
-rOAr-
ELECTIVE MEDICINE CO., 203 EEECTINE BUILDING, SYDNEY.
fg
A
PERFECT
FOOD
IN
TYPHOID & DYSENTERY
HORLICK’SMALTED MILK
is especially valuable as a diet in
Fever cases. Easily assimilated in
the weakest conditions. Whole-
some, nourishing and sustaining.
Recommended by the Medical Profession.
Of all Chemists and Stores.
82, Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S W.
Horlick’s Malted Milk Co.,
Slough, Bucks.
England.
&
Tobacco
Kills!
MOST MEN would
cure themselves of
the Tobacco Habit if
they knew they could
do so easily and also
without causing
themselves discom-
fort. ... It takes but
ten minutes for To-
bacco to change the
beats of the heart.
To keep it up is to
tempt death by heart
disease, nervous col-
lapse, tobacco cancer
and stomach, liver or
kidney disease.
ft
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a harm-
less, vegetable remedy that will make the
user of tobacco in any form absolutely aban-
don the habit for good. It not destroys the
craving, the desire, the appetite for tobacco,
but restores to health the entire nervous sys-
tem, and aids Nature in entirely eliminating
from the system the Nicotine Poison of
Tobacco.
FREE SAMPLE.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post yOu, under
sealed cover, a Free Sample, also our Book-
let, “The Tobacco Habit and its Consequen-
ces.” Write for particulars and Book to-day.
H- SINCLAIR CSb CO.,
DEPT. Q VICTORIA ARCADE, SYDNEY
56 tons 7cwt.
The weight of the quarter-
million Way tack Books
sold to date.
Waterman’s
Ideal]
FountamPen
sdfg
sfd
The
Pen to Trust.
The mote useful an article is, the more
imitators it has. There are now many Foun-
tain Pens, there is only ooe Watermans
Ideal Only one pen wnich possesses the
essential characteristics of a perfect
Fountain Pen omy one, and that is
Waterman s Ideal.
You w 11 not have trouble with Water-
man’s Ideal. It will always write when
you want it to write, it will neither leak
nor sp"rt, it wi 1 not get out of order, it will
last a lifet me. Nibs supplied to suit any
handwriting.
12/6 and upwards. From Stationers,
Jewellers, &c., throughout the world.
L. & C. HARDIMUTH, Ltd„
Koh-i-ncor House,
London, England.
AsW to see Watering’s Ideal Safety
Pf»ns *r»<J Pnmo-fi l>ng P^n^.
f ETTERS COPIED
WHILE WRITING
By Using Your Own Letter
Papci, invoices,
etc., WITS! THE
N 5 C / 200
PATENT Z-ANETIC
CoPY.NO &00»Vj
ft
You simply insert
your writing paper
in the holder and write. Whereupon you secure by
the act of writing a perfect letter and a perfect copy
(which remains in the booh)- There is no sign of
copying or perfora'ed edge.
Sample of the Celebrated Zanetic Paper which
produces this result fr< e from
S.B. ZANETIC WORKS,
Welford Road, Leicester, England.
If stamped addressed-envelope enclosed, one com-
plete NSC/100, Copying 200 full size lOin. x Bin.
letters, for 3/6 post free ; or Copying 400, 5/-.
Please send Money Orders only, not P.O.’s.
WHOLESALE AGENTS WANTED.
THE LONE HAND offers you the (jlad
Hand. It’s the Right Hand, and a week
after publication there are none left.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Nocturne.
White, mile-long rollers tumble all
Sea’s magic gems upon the shore;
Above, red-burnished meteors fall,
Like souls whose splendid dream is o’er.
Near-by, save sounds that come and go
As wind footfalls, there is no sound ;
Far off, a hundred arc-lamps glow
Where pleasure placed her glory-ground.
A stifled sob i’ the throat o’ night,
As yonder strives a gull o’erta’en
By darkness, ere its dizzy flight
Gains rest, and, striving still, is slain!
The -wind plays in the pines, and parts
The grey-blue veil, and with its breath
Some feel Love step within their hearts’
Wide-open doors —and some feel Death!
Out in the dark at some rude jest
A fool guffaws—his joy complete—
And as an engine taking rest,
Earth’s virile, rhythmic pulses beat.
Leaf-hid, two happy-mated birds
Coo in their nest, so warm it is,
While lovers whisper honeyed words
Beneath the boughs, and kiss—and kiss!
Night holds earth’s sorrow to her breast
For comforting, as mothers hold
Their sick babes to the bosom-nest
And croon to them songs never old.
Fools laugh, love kisses, red stars fall. . .
Who cares to know what they portend ?
To read the riddle of it all,
Solve the beginning, seek the end?
N.S.W.
W. M. WHITNEY.
No Reason Why.
i'm dull to-night, and out of sorts,
I’m neither smart nor spry,
My soul within me whines and snorts ;
There is no reason why.
The night' is still, and in the sky
A white moon suavely floats;
But still my music’s all awry,
And has no golden notes.
There’s something sinister that gloats
Upon me as I lie ;
My dreams have ulcerated throats. ..
There is no reason why.
I’ve not an impulse sweet or glad ;
I’m smitten hip and thigh
By Something ; all my thoughts are sad :
There is no reason why.
My secret, dear ambitions sigh,
And slowly slink away;
There’s nothing seems to signify,
And all the world is grey.
The things I might have done to-day
(And didn’t) scold and cry;
I think I’m very common clay
There is no reason why.
But someone comes to comfort me
With sweets I can’t deny. . .
I’m very dear to Marjorie:
There is no reason why.
Kind Heav’n, it may he, saw that I
Was somewhat out of gear;
So sent this winsome mite to try
And help me through down here.
Grim times or gay, dark skies or clear,
She’ll cheer me till I die:
Or so I think. It’s very queer. . .
There is no reason why.
MAORILAND.
FRANK MORTON.
The Temple.
From out the stately temple’s deep ,
I heard the organ roll,
And felt the noble .music sweep
Resurgent through my soul.
I saw the people bend and kneel,
And heard the hymns arise,
And caught the prayers whose soft appeal
'• In incense sought the skies.
And all the while, in mute amaze,
There stood beside the door
A starveling boy—and all a-gaze
Devoured the scene before;
And wondered how —if God on high,
Were good, as preachers said,
He e’er could let his children die
For want of children’s bread.
Till sudden on his wonderment
The closing anthem came,
And stealthily he turned and went
To hide his timid shame.
And, as he fled the temple proud,
On bare and shivering feet,
The Christian crowd in praise were loud —
But Christ was in the street.
QUEENSLAND.
F. BORN.
The Disused Drawing Room.
In almost ev’ry cot you know,
There is a place of gloom
Where people hardly ever go —
The sacred drawing room.
Who turns the handle of the lair
Feels ice upon his face;
It is the chill and musty air
That fills the tomb-like place.
No clock ticks in that silence vast;
No living footstep falls;
Only the grouped and photo’d Past
Is nailed upon the walls.
Beyond its stillness and its dust
They live who own the house,
The carpet fades, the fire-irons rust,
And moths hold high carouse.
And only once in many weeks,
Or months—or years, maybe,
A soul comes in with whitened cheeks
Some portrait old to see.
The record found, the seeker trips
On tip-toe to the door;
One frightened glance—the handle snips;
The tomb is closed once more.
N.S.W.
KODAK.


Combination Couch and Bed.
CHANGED INSTANTLY.
Size when open, 4ft. x 6ft. 7in.
Sfei V.*'i V v <<- V.'V 1) »
SjSgfellL*- /■ -i- V * * -i V 1
?>N
!JBBP!SWE
CLOSED AS COUCH.
Commonwealth
Patc.it i 2274.
m
OPEN AS DOUBLE BED.
Cannot get out of order; is
exceptionally strong and durable.
Just the thing for offices,
small rooms, or where an extra
bed is required.
Invaluable for hotels, boarding-
houses, coffee palaces, and similar
establishments.
Can be had fitted with box, to
act as linen press. Three pieces
of furniture in one.
Elegantly upholstered.
CASH PRICES:
In Cretonne, £4 10s.; in
Tapestry or American Leather,
£5 55.; in Rexine, £6 6s. With
Box, 20s. extra.
Patent Rights held by
MARCUS CLARK & Co. Ltd.
SYDNEY.
WAVEfiLEY FOUNTAIN PENS
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE
:: FREE
DIFFER FROM ALL OTHERS BY REASON OF
THE ELASTICITY AND PERFECTION OF THE
GOLD WAVERLEY NIB. IT DOES NOT TIRE THE
HAND AS DO THE STUBBORN LIFELESS NIBS
IN ORDINARY FOUNTAIN PENS. THE FLOW OF
INK IS FAULTLESS. ::
; SOLD BY ;
STATIONERS
AND
; DEALERS :
Wholesale Agent: ROBERT HUTTON, 321 Flinders Lane, Melbourne
RIFE
RAM
PUMPS WATER
DAY AND NIGHT
AUTOMATICALLY.
Low in first cost, easy to instal, no expense to operate, any capacity desired for
Country Homes, Farms, Dairies, Gardens, irrigation, Town Plants, Railroad Tanks, etc.
RIFE HYDRAULIC RAMS
Raise water 30 feet for every foot of fall.
Satisfaction yuarariteed. over7oooin use.
It there is a stream, spring or pond within a mite— Write for Free Plans and Book.
GET OUR FREE TRIAL OFFER.
2613 Trinity Bldg.
RIFE ENGINE CO.
New York
3SS
HOTEL
METROPQLE,
. . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF, from 11s. pei - day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 3s. 6d. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to The Manager.
THE NEW TYPE
(LARGE and SMALL)
Boomerang Grand
gsfd
IIITEBCHAHCEABLe
parts
ALBERT'S SYSTEM
hand n tEO
*teos
Is the Mouth Organ of quality, tonality and durability; its sound is pure, sweet and musical.
The BOOMERANG GRAND is a hundred years ahead of all those Mouth Organs styled under
sumptuous names. The GRAND has no pretentions; it is simply the best of the best; because,
apart from its numerous qualities, it oossesses two more cardinal ones, viz.: The GRAND wastes
no wind, and has a larger range of REEDS than any of the Modern Mouth Organs. Again, the
Large and the Small GRAND are nobly finished in enamel or nickel, with gold lettering.
PRICE: The Large GRAND BOOMERANG, with 48 Reeds, 6/6
The Small GRAND BOOMERANG, with 24 Reeds, 3/6
To be had, post free, from any respectable dealer (who does not attempt to talk you over
into a substitute), or
direct from the makers.
J. ALBERT & 50N, 137-9 King Street, Sydney.
I
The Hall-Mark of
Efficiency in All
Things Pertaining
to Photography.
PHOTOGRAPHY!
The Highest Grade Photographic Apparatus
existing at Popular Prices is obtainable from us.
CAMERAS from ss. up to £2O.
Either for Glass Plates or the Popular
Daylight-Loading Roll Films.
OUR CAMERAS ARE SELECTED FROM THE
WORLD’S BEST MAKERS.
g
lIP
The Leading Photographic Merchants 355 George Street, Sydney
in Australasia and New Zealand .. . Branches in Every State and N.Z.
You Can Depend on
PERDRIAU HOSE.
And, of course, you DO want a Hose that will stand you in good stead,
in season and out, for many a day.
There are four grades of Perdriau Hose, for each of which we append
a condensed scale of rates at the price per foot, if purchased in
coils of a multiple of 10ft.
“PROSPECT” is a really good hose, and the best possible at the price,
lin. x 3 ply, 51d. foot; fin. x 3 ply, Old. foot. lin. x 3 ply, Sd. foot.
“BARREN JACK” is a strong quality hose, and will give good service
with ordinary use. lin. x 3 ply, Old. foot; fin. x 3 ply, 81d. foot;
lin. x 3 ply, lOd. foot.
“CATARACT” is a splendid hose, suitable for liigh-pressure and con-
stant service, lin. x 3 ply, 71d. foot; fin. x 3 ply, lOd. foot; lin. x
3 ply, Is. foot.
“WATERSHED” RED RUBBER garden hose is the best made. It
will stand plenty of hard service, and resists sunburn, perish, kink-
ing, splitting and bursting better than any other kind. lin. x 2 ply,
71d. foot; lin. x 3 ply, 81d. foot; fin. x 3 ply, lid. foot; Jin. x 4
ply, Is. Id. foot; lin. x 3 ply, Is. 4d. foot.
Order a coil to-day. If you cannot call, you should write for free samples
and Illustrated Price List.
Perdriau Rubber Co., Ltd.,
“The Best House for all Rubber Goods,”
270 George Street, Sydney,
And 105 Elizabeth Street, between Collins and BourKe
Streets, Melbourne.
10-inch
Double
Records
“Every Record
a Picked One !
ENft
Double-Records
12-inch
Double
Records
MAY BE PLAYED ON ANY MACHINE.
JLatest 12-ixicK Selections.
We will gladly post you Complete Catalogue FREE.
GRAVEN TAYLOR & GO., LTD.
226 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY; 54 BODRKE STREET, MELBOURNE.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 32.—N0. 1652.
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 12, 1911.
Prmjk 6».
THE DOWNFALL.
ANCIENT WESTRALIAN ROMAN: “Go and tell that you have seen Marius sitting among the ruins of Carthage.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod,
of Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mos-
man, for The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
Ltd., at the Office of the Co., 214 George-
street North, Sydney, N. S. Wales, Aus-
tralia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES: Business, 1384 Central.
Editorial, 257 City.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Per Annum .; . . ..£l6O
Half-yearly . . .. .. 0 13 6
Quarterly .. .. .. 0 7 0
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin
posted regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques. Drafts, etc., and all Business Communica-
tions to be addressed to William Macleod, Manag-
ing Director.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the
paper {and. to an extent, themselves ) by taking
some care as to methods of address.
Busitiess letters {with regard to subscriptions, ad-
vertisements, etc.) should in no case be addressed to
the Editor, but to the Manager. To send them to
the Editor is to invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters
to anyone by name. “The Editor, The Bulletin,” is
the proper superscription for “copy.” Delay, and
even loss, is sometimes caused by addressing to per-
sons instead of officials. The person may not be
there; the official always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is' hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” col-
umn all contributions submitted, wlie'ther in the
form of Political, Social or other Articles, Verse,
Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially accept-
able), Paragraphs, Letters or Newspaper Clippings.’
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS.
when the address is specified and stamps are en-
closed. But no MS. will be returned, or preserved,
unless these conditions are observed. When MS. is
forwarded without stamps for return it will be un-
derstood that the copy is to be destroyed if not ac-
ceptable. Personal applications for return of MS.
cannot receive attention. The Bulletin desires,
further, those sending MS. to distinctly understand
that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
diiiect reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea,
but unfitted for direct reproduction — -i.e., any pic-
ture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received; are those
applying to MS.
The Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on
account of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch {wholesale
agents) to Victoria, I Vest Australia, Queensland,
Tasmania and New Zealand; and on account of
Messrs. Atkinson and Go. and Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide
—at lif6 per doz. nett.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South; Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town; Dawson and Son, Capetown; The Central
News Agency , Durban, Natal; and others.
Canada.- —Thomson Stationery Co.. _ Vancouver,
B.C. ; G. S. Forsyth and Co., Hastings Street;
Jepson Bros., Nanaimo, B.C.
U.S.A.—Golden Gate News Co., 789 Market Street,
San Franciscp ; C. W. Jewett, Utah, U.S.A.; Childs
News Agency, corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego,
Cal.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port
Said.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
IJong Kong.
Ceylon.— ll. John and Co.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size
x V/in., will be forwarded on application.
Larger sizes can be supplied if desired.
Postage Rates.
Single Copies, The Bulletin (Registered as a
Newspaper):—Throughout the Commonwealth, New
Zealand. Fiji, British New Guinea, Norfolk and Lord
Howe Islands, ltloz. id.; United Kingdom, All Sea
Route, 16oz. Id. — otherwise, 802. Id., and Bio2. to
lOoz., z\d; lOoz. to IZoz., Sd; elsewhere, J/oz., Id.,
and \d. each additional Sox.
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 12, 1911.
PREFERENCE TO FOREIGNERS.
AtiSTKALIA waits, as it has long waited, for
news of the next revision of the tariff.
Theoretically, the Federal Labor party is
mostly Protectionist and wholly Democratic,
but in practice it appears to have altogether
too great an affection for imported nigger-
made, low-wage-made and non-union-made
goods. So the question of the revision of
the tariff—its revision, that is, ‘ in the in-
terests of High Protection —hangs fire. The
party doesn’t say that it is Freetrade, nor
does it say that it prefers imported goods to
Australian, nor yet does it definitely refpse
to revise the tariff. It merely does nothing,
and says very little.
During the first eight months of 1911 the
imports of the Commonwealth were worth
£44,247,426, which was £6,180,139 more than
the figure for the first eight months of 1910.
In the same period exports increased by
£506,455, so the Commonwealth became de-
pendent on the foreign, low-wage, and often
nigger, and frequently non-union producer,
to the extent of £5,673,684 more than in the
corresponding period of last year. Between
January 1 and August 31, 3910. the exports
of Australia were some £4,000,000 more than
its imports, which meant that the country
was making provision at the rate of
£6,000,000 a year for the interest on its
foreigD liabilities. Between January and
August, 3931, the imports exceeded the ex-
ports by nearly £2,000,000, which signified
that the country was, for the time being,
making no provision at all for the interest
on its foreign liabilities, and was drifting
back into debt. Local production—the
production of goods manufactured under the
best conditions in the world, even though
these conditions still call for improvement
—was still increasing when the last figures
became available, but the expansion has
been very moderate of late. On the other
hand, the purchase of goods made under all
sorts of miscellaneous conditions —including
the worst conditions in the world —is grow-
ing out of all reason and proportion. The
supporters of the Labor party are wearing
and using and eating and drinking more and
more low-wage and long-hour and non-
union and nigger-made and sweated pro-
perty. Their indifference to this fact shows
how strong is still their faith in the glozing
lies of the Freetrade Tory press.
On the face of things, one might expect
that the policy of the Labor party would be
strongly in favor of the abolition of imports,
a great increase of local production, and a
liberal influx of desirable white immigrants.
It is widely known that in no country of the
world, save the United States, and perhaps
Canada, are wages so high as in Australia ;
and in hardly any country are hours so
short. There are few lands in which the
trade union principle is so strong; and out-
side Australasia Labor Governments are
almost as rare as hens that speak the
Hebrew language. In a country with an in-
effective tariff these are disadvantages.
The reasons why imported goods are so widely
used in place of Australian, and why they
are so rapidly gaining on Australian-made
products are that they are, in a great
measure, sweater’s goods, nigger goods, or
plain “scab” goods. These circumstances
make them cheaper, and they compete suc-
cessfully because of their cheapness. They
come into Australia by reason of qualities
which would make Australian goods doubly
and trebly accursed, and these qualities seem
to be counted to them for righteousness in
some quarters where such a state of mind
would hardly be looked for. The more
people are employed in Australian factories
the more people are employed under the best
conditions on earth —even though these con-
ditions still call for improvement—which
seems a desirable thing. Also, the larger
the industrial population the more possible
recruits there are for Australian unionism,
and the less of this country’s money goes to
bloat the utterly obnoxious sweater who
lives abroad and so keeps out of our juris-
diction, and to fatten the local importer, an
individual who pays very humble wages, and
whom unionism has so far failed to bring to
any reasonable frame of mind.
The immigration problem is really the
problem of local industrialism over again.
On this matter Labor is curiously divided.
Certain Labor Governments encourage a
moderate influx of desirable white citizens,
while certain Labor unions meet the white
immigrant with wholesale and retail hos-
tility. Yet, in a country which possesses an
effective tariff, and which manufactures for
itself, an influx of desirable whites seems
rather an advantage than otherwise. If
Australia had' 100,000,000 people (i.e.,
100,000,000 consumers to give employment
to 100,000,000-producers) there could be no
reason, bar shamefully bad government, why
unemployment should be greater than when
there , are 5,000,000 consumers to maintain
5,000,000 producers. So long as there is
land enough to produce from, the advantage
seems to rest with the larger population,
inasmuch <is it would make the debt burden
only one-twentieth as much per head as it is
now, and materially reduce many other
burdens. And it certainly seems better, in
the interests of humanity, to have 20 people
living under fair Australian conditions than
one person. The immigration subject is a
sort of triangle. The Tory Freetrade im-
porter wants free imports and an influx of
population, so that the horde of strangers
may be driven by lack of employment to
work .for him at starvation wages. The
Democratic Protectionist wants a high tariff
and an influx of population, so that Aus-
tralia’s goods may be made in Australia
under good Australian conditions, which
state of things would deprive the Freetrade
Tory importer of his useless job, and liberate
this country from its disgraceful dependence
on a system which is really the survival of
the cheapest, and the thinnest, and the one
whose ribs are most visible. And the
Labor party appears to be partly on one
side and partly on the other, and partly un-
able to say which side it is on.
While affairs remain in this state of sus-
pended animation, the manufacturer’s posi-
tion is unsatisfactory. There is one huge
and immensely affluent monopoly in Aus-
tralia —an affair that is partly a local manu-
facturing business, partly an agricultural
job, and largely a mixed foreign concern,
employing cheap colored workers in Fiji.
And because of its great profits there is a
tendency among wily people with an axe
to grind, and foolish people who grind axes
that don’t belong to them, to lump the whole
manufacturing class as “monopolists” and
such like. Yet, on the average, the factory
owners of Australia are small men with 20
employees apiece—if the great sugar mono-
poly is left out, as a largely foreign affair,
the average number of employees is below
20. The factory owner has to pay better
wages than the iarmer, and work his people
far shorter hours. He isn’t allowed to em-
ploy child-labor —often unpaid child-labor —
in the shameless fashion that is permitted
to the cow-cocky. He is inspected and ven-
tilated, and compelled to provide sanitary
arrangements. He isn’t, like the wheat and
wool men, producing goods of which the
world’s supply is growing short; rather, he
has to face fierce competition on all sides.
When he sends his produce by rail it is
charged from three to 12 times the rates
levied on the agricultural man’s output.
If his- industry is in the country, and he
sends his goods to the city per coastal
steamer, he has to send them by a white
labor steamer paying Australian wages, and,
as a rule, it is a steamer that gets no mail-
subsidy ; the importer’s goods, on the con-
trary, come from England by a cheap labor
boat, often a subsidised boat, and sometimes
a nigger-manned boat. The factory owner
makes considerable losses through strikes,
while the cocky farmer and the importer are
generally, free from that drawback ; their ill-
paid toilers are hardly organised up to the
striking point. Yet, strangely enough, the
term “monopolist” is hurled, even by Labor
people, at the heavily-handicapped employer
of 20 people or less, with a fury that is
never shown in the case of the much
wealthier importer—The bringer of Chinese
and Hindu and leper-made goods to these
shores, the sweater’s agent and the foreign
non-unionist’s middleman.
The present tariff was a humble and
moderate and unsatisfactory tariff when it
was created some years ago ; in some lines it
was hardly any tariff at all. When the Aus-
tralian textile industry, for instance, bumped
up against that of Freetrade Britain, where
the factories employ seven ill-paid women to
every four ill-paid men, and where over ”2,000
children under 14 are employed at hardly
any perceptible wages, the duties were
wretchedly inadequate. But bad as things
were to begin with, they became worse as
time went on. The New Protection was
ruled out as unconstitutional, and Labor
took up the attitude that there would be no
raising of the tariff until the New Protec-
tion was made constitutional, so that any
increase of duties might be conditional upon
payment of a certain scale of wages. As a
result, the manufacturer can’t get any more
Protection until this ‘question is settled;
but, meanwhile, wages and rents and the cost
of raw material don’t wait for any settle-
ment. They just go up when they feel that
way. In 1907 the wages of factory
employees averaged all round, including
women and youths, £77 3s. sd. per
head; in 3909 they -were £S3 os. 2d. per
head. In 1907 there Was left to the manu-
facturer, after paying the three big items
of raw material, fuel find wages, £lB 15s.
out of every £lOO worth of goods produced.
This had to cover rent, bad debts, interest
on borrowed money, wear and tear of plant,
purchase of new machinery, wages for the
owner, who is mostly a working owner,
board and lodging for his family, and profits.
In 3909 the margin was only £l7 11s. 7d.,
yet the rent was more; there was a great
deal more machinery to keep in repair;
there was far more capital to pay' interest
on; and with a greatly increased turnover
there was much more risk of bad debts. Be-
tween 1907 and 1909 the capital invested in
N.S.W. factories alone, expanded by
£2,793,055. Yet the amount left after pay-
ing the wages, fuel and raw material bills
only increased by £49,789. That didn’t
nearly cover the wear and tear on the extra
£1,300,000 worth of plant and machinery
employed, let alone the extra outlay in rent,
bad debts and sundries, so the new capital
yielded less than nothing. Wages rose by
over. £1,000,000. but net profits went down
heavily. Meanwhile the earnings of the im-
porting firms, which went on employing the
old low-priced clerk and importing the old
foreign sweater’s goods in the old cheap
labor ship, improved considerably. Also things
looked up with the cockv, who is still allowed
to make his small children get up at 4 a.m.
to milk the cows gratis. And. strangely
enough, these individuals haven’t come in
for one-tenth the vituperation that has fallen
on the manufacturing “monopolist.”
* * * *
The importing person—the Tory whose in-
terests are represented by the Argus, S. M.
Herald, Telegraph, Courier, etc. —se°ms
content with the position. Australian
manufacturers are his enemy, and the enemy
is having a bad time, Australian goods are
his abomination, and the abomination’s
luck is not too good these days. With his
cheap clerk at this end, and his cheap
sweated child- or nigger-worker at the other
end. and the cheap foreign ship as the con-
necting link between the other two cheap
circumstances, he is gble today his imported
hand proudly on the imported vest which
covers his imported stomach, and say that
he, at all events, doesn’t want to be coddled
by any tariff. He says the manufacturer is
a “monopolist,” and is pleased when a sec-
tion of the workers re-echoes his cry. He
also, says that there must be an end of tin-
kering with the duties, and the tariff must
be settled once and for all; and the proposal
sounds so frank and plausible that a great
many people think it quite a fair thing for
the insufficient tariff to remain fixed, while
wages and the cost of materials gyrate in the
wildest fashion. The importer sees, with no in-
ward objection, Labor shoving up wages to
a point which the absurdly low scale of
duties can’t stand much longer, whereby he
hopes that the Protectionist Party will be-
come discredited on the ground that its Pro-
tection has failed to protect, and the Laborj
party will become an object of public mirth,
for the reason that its minimum wage policy
has left the worker without any wage what-
soever. Meanwhile, he is‘selling more black
labor goods to White Australia, and more
cheap labor goods to the advocates of the
minimum wage, than he ‘ever did before. So
he has nothing to complain about. His only
danger is that he may explode with' mirth,
and perhaps split down the back.
THE CORNSTALK TOTE.
The question of the introduction of the
tote in N.S W. is again in the air, and the
guileless Minister Flowers was waited up-
on the other day by a deputation, which
searched him for his vote and influence.
Mr. Flowers seems to have put his hand
to his head in a dazed fashion, and tried to
remember what on earth the tote might be,
and what it was used for. Then it gradu-
ally dawned on him that there is an animal
—oftentimes a brown or bay animal —called
a horse; that, under certain circumstances,
one horse often tries to run faster than an-
other horse, and usually fails; and that
people gamble on the reshlt. The verdict of
Mr. Flowers was that, if it could be shown
that the N introduction of the tote would re-
duce the amount of gambling on the animal
that generally fails to run as fast as the
other animal, he would be in favor of the
instrument. On the .whole it was an illogi-
cal conclusion. In the first place, it is
possible to tell how much gambling isqdone
on the tote, which keeps an honest record,;
and pays a percentage of its winnings to
some good cause or another; but it isn’t
possible to'say how gambling is done
by Benjamin the bookmaker.
He supplies no such information, and lies
very low, and always says that he is Ruined.
Therefore, no one can tell whether tlie tote
reduces gambling or not, and anyone who
professes to tell is a plain and obvious fraud.
Certainly, if the bookmaker is killed quite
dead, and the tote takes his place, all credit
betting, and all early- or long-distance bet-
ting will be abolished, and the whole busi-
ness will be concentrated on the racecourse,
and confined to race days, and done on a
cash basis. So the tote is capable of abol-
ishing something. And though the amount
of tote-gamblirg may be bigger one year than
the year before, there is no evidence that the
increase is out of proportion to the growth
of population and wealth, or that the gam-
bling done by Benjamin Short-Odds
wouldn’t have increased just as fast, or per-
haps twice as fast, if there had been no tote.
■Therefore, Minister Flowers was asking the
impossible, which is always an un-
wise proceeding. And in any case the re-
duction of tlie volume of gambling
isn’t everything, any more than the
reduction in the volume of drink, or
the diminution of Flossie, or the shrinkage
or subtraction of any particular vice. It is
something to deprive gambling of its worst
surroundings; and it is also something to
have pure liquor sold in a clean and quiet
and tidy house, instead of having poison
vended in a hovel with six boneless inebri-
ates behind and three free fights in front;
and it is a matter of importance to have
Flossie made less of a blot on the land-
scape than she might be if she were more of
a blot than she would be if she didn’t blot
so much.
As matters stand, the pious of the
N.S.W. community authorises and recognises
gambling as conducted by Benjamin Short-
Odds, the bookmaker. It may not have
passed any law providing for his existence,
but it knows that he exists, and it doesn’t
pass any law for his abolition. Presum-
ably, it occupies this position because the
“gambling evil” is too strong for it. There-
fore, if it stood aside and allowed other par-
ties to replace the bookmaker by the tote, it
would be no more guilty than it is now. On
the other hand, by throwing in its vote
against the tote, it stands forth as the
champion and supporter of Benjamin
Short-Odds, which is a very absurd posi-
tion, seeing that it has neither gambled,
drank nor painted the city red with that
person, and hasn’t the slightest personal
knowledge of him. By reason of this sup-
port, the holy congregation enjoys the bless-
ing and support of Benjamin, and his bless-
ing isn’t a creditable thing for any set of
saints to have about the house. There are
a number of reasons why the alliance be-
tween the Bag and the Pulpit should be
broken, if the Pulpit would only listen to
reason, but, so far, that hollow piece of fur-
niture has been stone deaf. The following
are some of the reasons :
(1) If the tote were made the only legal gamble
the bookmaker would disappear, and he is accused
of being (a) always an utterly useless and non-pro-
ductive person ; (b) occasionally a person of drink-
ing habits; (c) frequently an individual of dubious
morals; (d) sometimes a swindler, who hires mis-
guided jockeys to run “stiff” ; and (e) now and then
a person who profanes the tabernacle and the Legis-
lature by hiring loud and corrupt parsons and holy-
seeming politicians to denounce the tote in his own
sordid interests.
(2) Credit betting, as aforementioned, would
vanish, for the machine doesn’t give tick.
(3) Betting before the event would pass out, as
hereinbefore alluded to, for the machine only
gambles on the course.
(4) Shoo and street betting would be extinguished,
as already hinted at, because the machine doesn’t
walk around looking for customers.
(5) Jockeys, trainers, etc., would have a better
chance .of going to Heaven, as previously indicated
or adumbrated, because the machine doesn’t hire
these people to work swindles.
(6) The profits, instead of going to support a
wholly unproductive class, would be devoted to some
good purpose, such as the maintenance of hospitals
or the reduction of the public debt.
(7) The interests of Art would be conserved, for
the tote can be made an architectural adornment,
and painted a nice fresh, green, and decorated with
spring blossoms, while the bookmaker is often fat,
frequently flushed, sometimes even carbuncled, and
mostly wears his blossom on his nose. And that
blossom is permanent—not spring.
Against these positive and obvious advan-
tages—less noise, less drink, less Flossie,
possibly less gambling, more' beauty,
more honesty, and a large contribu-
tion to some noble purpose—the pious
brigade has two chief arguments to urge;-
One is that the money, which the tote would
supply to the hospitals or the Public Debt
Sinking Fund, would come from a “tainted
source.” It is difficult to understand the
frame of mind which is capable of' this form
of reasoning. All money comes, first, from
the ground, and, secondly, from the Kings
mint. The ground isn’t tainted, nor (let us
hope) is the King. Yet in a sense all money
is , tainted—even the widow’s mite, and the
twopence of the Good Samaritan, and the
.ipenny that was rendered unto CLesar. The
handful of coin which pays the parson’s
weekly salary has probably wandered, dur-
ing the previous three months, through opium
dens, houses of ill-fame, gambling shops,
bars and even worse institutions. The
threepenny has been carried'in a Chinaman’s
ear, and the sixpence has purchased an
adulterated cigar. The preacher who tried
to live on “clean” money would starve, and
even if he 1 took his pay in kina, the vege-
tables might be grown by a bigamist, in
grffund where a murderer had buried his
victim at the dark of the moon; and they
might be carted to the pastor’s door in a
vehicle built by an atheist, dragged by an
ill-used horse, and driven by a professional
perjurer. The other argument is that the
State ought not to “recognise” gambling,
but the State recognises gambling quite as
much by failing to abolish the bookmaker, as
it would by failing to avoid the establish-
ment of the totalisator. • Any. inspector of
nuisances can define the situation out of the
depths of his own experience, The fine for
having a dirty and offensive back yard is the
same, whether the tenant put the dirt in tue
back yard himself, or whether he moved into
a house with a dirty yard, and neglected to
clean the hinder premises. To say that the
dirt is ancient dirt is no excuse. In any
case, the pious aggregation, on which the
bookmaker relies for support, puts itself out
of court by professing not to know dirt when
it sees the article. Its attitude is that it
has no personal experience of the ‘gambling
evil,” and never haunts racecourses, and
never loses its money on the bob-tailed quad-
ruped. It doesn’t know that the bookmaker
is better tl«i ; ii. the tote,-’or even half as good ,
in fact, dt-professes stupendous ignorance an
round. People'- who really have personal
knowledge of the gambling evil —decent citi-
zens who have backed the wrong horse tor
many years, and acquired information a
great cost —are prepared to swear tnat tne
tote is the minor evil, but the Wowser da
will neither acquire information direct, nor
listen to the information of those who nav
acquired the article. By some strange mental
perversion the clerical push will hsten to
no evidence save that of Benjamin Shoe
Odds, the bookmaker. Exactly what bo »
there is betwen the cleric and BenJamiM n
one has yet discovered, but, if there is
bond, then Benjamin has got a shameful
loan’of his clerical friend.


CHRISTMAS EDITION of
“THE BULLETIN,” 1911.
A Special and Enlarged Issue
Published on DECEMBER 14.
It will contain the best Stories, Verse and
Sketches, grave and gay (mostly • gay), con-
tributed during the year by the foremost Aus-
tralasian writers.
The illustrations, by “Hop,” Alf Vincent, Nor-
man Lindsay and other leading representative
artists, will be the finest Black and White work
obtainable in Australia, and will reflect the
national humor.
The Bulletin Christmas Number is the annual
reflection of the life and thoughts of our country,
and therefore useful as well as interesting.
Agents will be supplied, at the usual rates, but,
in consequence of the heavy outlay on this Special
Edition, NO RETURNS will be accepted.
ORDERS FOR EXTRA COPIES should reach
us not later than the 18th NOVEMBER to ensure
supply.
Single, copies post free to any part of the Com-
monwealth States and Muoriland, 7d.; Foreign
addresses, 9d.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Breakage in Westralia.
It is a long time since a Ministry struck
such a boundless and unutterable snag as
that on which the Westralian Tory Govern-
ment wrecked itself last week. It had a
small but workable majority in the old Par-
liament onlv a few days ago; now it has
hardly anything, and looks like a lost pea-
nut in the middle of Sahara. The returns
are in for 46 out of the 50 constituencies,
and Gabor has captured 31. About half the
Ministry has gone overboard, and some 17
Ministerial candidates polled such a handful
of votes that they lost their deposits. There
have been such defeats before —notably when
Neil Gewis was struck by a falling cliff: in
Tasmania in 1903, but that was only an ex-
change of one Tory for another. Even when
the Fusion fell dowm and broke its neck last
year, it didn’t break its neck in quite so
many places, nor at quite such short notice.
The new development puts the Labor party
in power in three States —N.S.W., South
Australia and Westralia; as well as in the
Australian Parliament. Also, the Northern
Territory is under direct Labor administra-
tion. So the State Governments of Queens-
land, Victoria and Tasmania alone remain
to represent the old order of things, and, ex-
cept in Tasmania, there has been such a
vast change in the old order that if the old
order of 50 years ago could rise from its
dusty tomb and see its present-day represen-
tative it would utter a wild shriek and say
that Anarchy was loose in the land, with a
torch in its hand and a garniture of snakes
in' its hair. The tally of Australian Labor
Ministries now reaches 10, being nine Gov-
ernments and two half-Governments. The
nine complete Governments were the Federal
ones of Watson' and Fisher (two) ; and
those of Andy Dawson (Queensland),
McGowen (N.S.W.), Earle (Tasmania),
Verran (S.A.), Daglisii (W.A.) and
Scadden (W.A.). The two half-Govern-
ments were the Morgan-Browne coalition
in Queensland and the Price-Peaice combine
in S.A. At first, Gabor Governments were
sudden, ephemeral things: Andy Dawson’s
lasted six days and John Earle’s seven
days. But now they show signs of having
come to stay. This is especially the.case in
South Australia, where it is proposed to
procure a fine dried and stuffed Tory for the
Adelaide Museum, it being noticed that the
large size or old-man Tory shows signs of
dying out. There are still giants in the
land —gigantic Tories, that is-,-but they are
growing scarce, and giving way to a smaller
breed, as the mastodon gave way to the ele-
phant. And a stuffed elephant is a very
poor apology for a stuffed mastodon or a
well-preserved Bruce Smith.
The Indispensable Iron.
Every month it becomes more evident that
Australia can’t afford to leave its most im-
portant manufacturing business, the produc-
tion of iron and steel, in the present private
hands. When the Commonwealth was born,
and when presently the offensive Jap
started to push his nose over the
horizon, Australia had the beginnings
of just one iron-works —at Lithgow, in
New South Wales. They had been run for
years by William Sandford, who, in the
absence of a decent amount of State support,
had been obliged to lean more and more
heavily on a bank. Things reached a crisis;
and then a piece of bad luck happened to
Australia —the works fell- into. thgphands; of
the Hoskins’ firm. Its members (are, no
doubt, very fine engineers ; but labor unions
are to them like red rags to an already in-
furiated bull. There is probably no indus-
trial concern in Australia more frankly hos-
tile to almost everything which organised
labor regards as more or less sacred. The
inevitable trouble soon started, and it lia.s
been breaking out every few weeks ever since.
What ought to be a great national under-
taking had not been in the new control more
than a few weeks before its managers were
charged with a flagrant violation of the law
for the preservation of industrial peace, and
heavily fined —a fact which shows more
clarly, perhaps, than anything else the spirit
of the employers in this nationally-indispens-
able industry. In a new undertaking of this
sort, where the conditions of the trade are not
well defined, there is bound to be some friction,
most if not all of which could be easily
enough got over by conciliatory methods.
The Hoskinses, however, apparently know
nothing about conciliation; and when the
labor union meets them it meets them as
antagonists, so that instead of difficulties
disappearing new ones are almost invariably
created. For two months the Githgow busi-
ness has been in a state of strike ; but in-
stead of bending all their efforts to come to
an understanding with their old employees,
the conductors of this heavily-subsidised con-
cern—the one concern upon which Australia
depends for its home-made iron and steel
supplies—are struggling to get in outside
labor. The position is intolerable, and, how-
ever great the other merits of the firm may
be, it always will be intolerable under , the
present control. The Hoskinses are, no
doubt, honest and sincere. They believe,
doubtless, that labor unions are a
curse, not only to the employer, but to
the workman as well. But no amount
of honesty and sincerity will make the wheels
go round smoothly in an industry controlled
by men with such ideas. The best proof of
the pie is in the eating. Australia has been
eating the Hoskins pie for a couple of
years, and has found it full of stones. The
Commonwealth can’t afford to go on in this
way. The business is too vitally important
to the nation. We cannot risk delays _of
days, let alone months. It is not a question
of 'wiping this firm out. If it is right, time
will tell. But while it is performing its Hon
Quixote manoeuvres, Australia’s competi-
tors and probable enemies are sweating at
the real thing. Let the Hoskinses fight out
their alleged principles if they please; but
meantime let us sweat too —let us have iron
and steel. And since the Commonwealth
Government, as the defender of this country,
is the most deeply interested in the produc-
tion of the metals, it is the Commonwealth
Government that ought to take steps to end
the present deplorable state of affairs by the
simple process of undertaking the job itself.
The Marriage Contract in its lusiness
Aspect.
The ’Murkan story of the Unkissed Bride
and her recent law suit promises to become
historic. It breaks new ground for divorces.
Moreover, it presents the frequent hypocrisy
of the pretentious church marriage cere-
mony in a positively repulsive form. The
Unkissed Bride or Edward Victor Gambier,
cashier at the Merchants’ Exchange, Noo
York, had refused to come to loverlike terms
with him before marriage or subsequently.
She accepted him as sweetheart and husband
by word of mouth, but rejected him persist-
ently by act and deed. Finally he gave her
up as a bad job—an abnormal prude—and
left her to shift for herself. But not until
after she had told him she had “married him
merely for support.” When he ceased to
support her, she wrote to him promising to
be “acquiescent.” He was justified in dis-
believing her assertions —in the opinion of
the Judge who, havin' 1 - summed up both par-
ties in court, dismissed the wife’s claim, for
alimony. So far the case was only amusing.
Its- importance lay in the Court’s suggestion
that Edward Victor Gambier might sue for
annulment of his marriage contract on the
ground that his wife had obtained it under
false pretences, “her declaration that she
loved him being untrue.” Thus far in human
civilisation, the ordinary “self-respecting”
female has never doubted her right to “marry
for a home.” Her relatives and friends have
usually blessed the fraud and called it holy,
whereas the friends of the occasional male
impostor who married for money have at
least held him in contempt. Society has
draw.n a broad distinction between the two
social crimes. The fortune-hunter who sells
his manhood is a scoundrel. The fortune-
huntress who traps a man by persuading him
that he has captured, or will capture, her
tender affections, is thought to be only play-
ing the sexual game. She ranks as a re-
spectable sport. As to whether she pre-
sently grows fond of her husband, or finds
him more or less hateful, nobody . worries
(save the man) as long as she is “properly
provided for.” It is a quite common fact
that a wife talks to her she-friends of her
lack of fondness for her husband, and gets
their, sympathy, or a pretence thereof, on the
ground that she married the wrong man,
poor thing! Nevertheless, her claim to his
support remains strong as ever in Society’s
eyes; Similar complaints by husbands ate
rarely uttered.. In the first place, few men
would say that they didn’t think themselves
in love when'they married, and if they did
say it they would get no sympathy from
others. Anyhow, the law compels them to
go on supporting the missus—and rightly
compels them. In lawfiil matrimony the
male offender against natural law must
alwayg pay the penalty of his own crime:
and hitherto every innocent male victim of
his wife’s offence against natural law has
had to go on paying for it as though it were
his owh. But the Yankee Case of the Un-
kissed W,ife opens up a fairpr prospect for
the husband who can convict his wife of
having married him under false pretences.
In this extraordinary case the ' woman has
left herself without any visible means of de-
fence. By; both word and deed she admitted
to getting a marriage contract signed. by
false pretences. If it was God who joined
her to her husband under those conditions,
it must be high time to leave the Almighty
out of the marriage question. Even the
Church will hesitate to declare that God was
an accessory before and after the crime in
Edith Russell Gambier’s case. But her
discomfiture in a divorce court will not lead
to a rush of aggrieved husbands with peti-
tions for annulment of their marriage con-
tracts. The normal man-deceiving woman
admits her fraud by word only, if she admits
it at all. She retains her legal hold on her
unloved husband, as firmly as the unloved
wife retains her grasp of the man she
honestly captured. What she will lose —if
Gambier gets his divorce and creates a pre-
cedent —is her present confidence in the jus-
tice of her claim to sympathy and respecta-
bility as a lawfully married lady when s ic
sadly tells her friends (or shouts the awful
truth at her husband) that she got married
under her own gross misrepresentations.
♦
The Meat Trust and Higher Shipping
Freights.
From September 1 the shipping cos. charge
an extra one-sixteenth of a penny for carrying
the Australian cocky’s frozen lambs to John
Bull’s markets; and as the cold meat has
lo compete with similar eatables from other
countries, it is certain that the Australian
cocky, big or small, will have to take less for
his young jumbuck, thanks to the splendid
success of Private Enterprise. And as the
success of the sheep business nowadays hangs
wholly on the disposal of the surplus animal
overseas, the rise in freights, though it doesn’t
look much, is going to hurt. At present the
extra cost is put down at £56,000 per annum,
and it follows on a similar rise last year.
As the trade is, or should be, a growing one,
the toll will go on getting heavier and
heavier. Almost simultaneously it is an-
nounced in various quarters that the big
Meat Trust has arrived in Australia. There
may be no relation between the two circum-
stances. But if there isn’t now there may be
later on. Special rates have been the stand-
by of the Yankee Trust from the beginning.
Australia’s one-eyed sheepmen have so far
held that the fact of the railways being
State-owned was an all-powerful factor
against the intrusion of the Trust, seeing
that the deadly “special rate” was out of the
question with Government-controlled lines.
But as the octopus doesn’t enter into the
meat business seriously till the goods are on
the ship destined for outside markets, this
faith in the State railways is an insufficient
argument. The Trust would like to have the
ear of the folk who own the railways, but if
it can get a loan of the ear of the people
who own the ships it will pull through. If
special rates can be secured by any means
on oversea frozen meat, the Trust will
speedily freeze out all opposition ; and then
the “backbone of the country” will wonder
sadly what has struck him. The only visible
remedy lies in State-owned ships. _ State-
owned railways are a protection against the
octopus Trust, as regards purely inland
trade, but in foreign trade matters State-
owned ships are still more essential. Their
introduction may be Socialism; but the
cocky will have to put up with that, or stand
the risk of not only losing his sheep but his
own pelt as well.
The White Man in the Tropics.
A few days ago Sydney Telegraph —doing
its usual subterranean clamor for a Black
Australia —held forth thus about the alleged
or bogus impossibility of the white man
living in the tropics :
But it may be pointed out that the white man has
hitherto failed to make good his foothold in the
tropical regions of other countries. The almost com-
plete disappearance of the pure white stock planted
by the Spaniards and Portuguese in Central and
South America is a significant fact which cannot be
ignored, etc.
It was such an outrageous and insolent lie
that The Bulletin was moved, in its issue
of 28/9/Tl, to point out, what every intelli-
gent schoolboy knows, that instead of com-
pletely disappearing the pure white Spaniard
and Portuguese have multiplied and flour-
ished in Central and South America until they
number many millions. But further argument
is needless, for the Telegraph, one day last
week, cut its own throat, or put its foot into
its own mouth, or called itself a liar, or
something of the sort. Speaking of the
Italian invasion of Tripoli it said: —
If the organisation of the desert tribes is accom-
plished, a very strong fighting force will come to the
assistance of Turkey. The Tuaregs are the real rulers
and buccaneers of the desert. Mr. C. W. Furlong
in his interesting work, “The Gateway to the
Sahara,’’ describes them as “a people as mysterious
as the trackless sands. . . . The Tuaregs are masters
of a territory half the area of the United States in
extent. It reaches from Barbary to the Niger, from
the fever-laden districts of Semmur and Senegal on
the Atlantic to the land of the wild Tebus, who 'oc-
cupy and control the districts east of Lake Chad.
Out of the million and a-half square miles of Tuareg
territory, scarcely more than the area of New York
city is cultivated land, and even this, in most cases,
is saved only by a constant fight against the relent-
less march of the drifting sand. Fearless and en-
during must a people be who can live, travel and
thrive in such a desolation.
“STRANGE AS IT MAY SEEM, THE TUAREG
IS OF THE WHITE RACE, and, were it not for the
fierce exposure to sand-storm and desert sun, these
swarthy children of Nature would undoubtedly count
many of a Saxon fairness among them.”
In fact, the white man has here and there
pegged out the hottest parts of the earth for
his allotment, and has flourished there from
time immemoral. But it was a very bad
break for the Telegraph to make. After its
many yarns about how the white man “can’t
live in the tropics” it should have sworn
that the Tuareg—who, by the way, is sus-
pected of being an Arabianised Frenchman
and a descendant of some of the wrecks of
the army of Louis IX.—was simply a black
blot against a background of yellow and
blue. . . - ... ■
.
Private Railway Enterprise in Great Britain.
The horribly ill-paid British railway worker
made a greater success than he expected of
his recent hold-up; even in his wildest
dreams he hardly anticipated the luck that
came his way. It was poor luck at the best,
but ther the wildest dreams weren’t san-
guine. In the year - 1908 (later complete
T«>ur"s are hard to p'Pt) the average wages of
the English and Welsh railway toiler were
255. Old. per week, which was less than he
received in 1599, 1900, 1904, 1905, 1906 or
1907. The figure in Scotland was 225. Bjd.,
which was less than the record for any one
of the previous 10 years. The Irish wage
was 19s. 83d., which was less than the spay
in 1906. When allowance is made for the
highly skilled workers who had to receive
rather better pay, the rank and file collected
a miserable amount —12s. a week, in many
cases, for full-grown men—and the hours of
labor are tremendous. The despairful fea-
ture of the case, however, was that the miser-
able amount was actually fading (though the
German railway man got his wages pushed
up 25 per cent, during the last 10 years),
and that the cost of food in Britain kept
rising out of all reason. The great victory
achieved by the British railway strikers pro-
bably just puts them back about where they
were a few years ago, considering the rise in
the cost of food m tlie interim. Now the com-
panies have begun to try to make good the
loss by reducing their staffs; the London and
North-Western co. has “fired” 700 men from
its Crewe works alone. Probably this sort
of thing will lead to more trouble. There is
really something to be said for the railway
companies in Bull’s Private Enterprise
country. They are on a very ordinary kind
of wicket these days. The capitals are ab-
surdly large to begin with, but then in the
early days the railway builders were shame-
lessly robbed by the people whose land they
had to acquire, and they have never got over
the shock. Also, they had to spend huge
amounts in what was practically bribery.be-
fore they could even get permission to think
about starting work. Furthermore, Britain
is a Freetrade country which simply hates
to seriously tax the foreigner at the Custom
House, so to make up it has to tax its own
people in a manner that no other nation on
earth is acquainted with. For instance, on
all fares that exceed Id. per mile—practi-
cally all first- and second-class traffic —it
levies a duty of 2 per cent, as regards town
traffic, and 5 per cent, as regards all other
traffic. That is quite apart from ordinary
taxes and the very heavy local rates. The
total tax burdens of the railways are now
well over £5,000,000 a year, and in the last
10 years they have increased by over
£1,250,000. They are still going up, and, of
course, other things go up. Third-class fares
are higher than in France, Germany, Russia,
Austria, Hungary, Italy, Switzerland, Hol-
land, or Belgium. They are also higher, in
many cases, than the figures for Australia.
Yet the average British dividend is only 3£ per
cent., which isn’t especially gorgeous. Among
the 33 principal lines of the United King-
dom, so Whitaker’s Almanac (which
brings its figures up to 1909) alleges, two
pay nothing (these two, in fact, never seem
to'pay anything) ; one pays ss. per £100;
one 17s. 6d.; one pays 1 per cent.; and then
there are such dividends as £1 12s. Gd.; £1
155.; and £2 15s. per cent.; and so
on up to one gorgeous example which
hands out G* per cent. It is a
small local line and hardly worth considering
in the averages. Twenty-one out of the 33
paid less in 1909 than in 1907, and the divi-
dends average 1 per cent, less than they did
25 years ago. These are mighty poor results
from lines which have the use of such. re-
markably cheap labor. In fact, there is. a
vague sort of feeling that Private Enterprise
(helped on its mad career bv Private Land-
lordism) has made a hash of things in many
ways. And J. Bull is becoming sq con-
vinced of this that even Ministers have begun
of late to talk of following the policy of Aus-
tralia and making railways State property.
The Validating Sham.
It is to he hoped that next time a Labor
Government comes to office it will announce
that it will not pass any “Validating” Bills
—and keep its word. Last week, the Vic-
torian Parliament slipped through the ex-
pected Municipal Coronation Expenditure
( Validating) Bill, with only a slight protest,
as though the condonation of illegal acts were
a matter of course. Pretty nearly every time
an event happens that gives Bumbledom a
chance to air its “loyalty” at other peoples
expense, half the councils, boards and other
assemblages of noodles spend public money
in fireworks or feeds regardless of the fact
that the law straightly prohibits them from
doing so; and just as regularly Parliament is
asked and agrees to square the misappropria-
tion by a little Validating Bill. If a private
trustee similarly splashed another person s
money on fireworks, not only would he get
no Validating Bill, but he would have to
make good the coin out of his own pocket,
and he would probably be shot into gaol as
well. Moreover, if the swindle was suddenly
ended this country would learn exactly how
much “loyalty” there is in it when the
loyalty has to be paid for. If, on the other
hand,'no Ministry is game to stiffen its neck
and force these dishonest trustees of public
monev to walk a straight track, then it
would he more honorable to go the entire
hog, allow them to spend their whole revenues
just as they please, and validate everything.
“Sz” —liis complaint:—
Melbourne is weary of being tied with knotted
strings to the old railway lines and tram-lines. Ine
people are stacking themselves, in more and more
thousands every year, close beside these lines, anm
they cannot get away; for the out-of-date steam*
trains won’t carry them fast enough to the outer.’
suburbs, and the Octopus Tram Company won t de-
velop its slow cable lines any further. The Kent-
lord near the lines rejoices, and everyone else groans.
The Traffic Commission’s report of last week now
tells the Melbourne populace that for £5,000,000,
perhaps £6,000,000 (either amount to be spread over
many years), it can cut itself loose and become the
freest-moving city populace in the world. The figures
are these: —
Electrifying railway lines .. .. £2,128,800
Electrifying tramways and making
80 miles more track . . . . 2,650,718
Duplicating railway lines .. .. 674,000
£6,253,618
More cost would be added by duplication of railway
lines not mentioned in the report, and by buying out
the business of the Octopus Company—though not at
its own exorbitant price. The price of liberty mav
be taken roughly at £6,000,000. The people would
pay it in fares, but not in higher fares than at
present. They would save it in time. They would
save it in better business opportunities. They would
save it in money going into the public revenue instead
of into the mouth of the Octopus. They would save it
in the rent now screwed out of them because they
are compelled to live close to present trams and
trains. The sensible thing for the people of Mel-
bourne to do is to pay the price, and cut the strings
which tie them up.
♦ ——
Remarks by “H.S.”
The N.S.W. “Liberal” party has become the by-
word and howling public jest it is, owing in great
part to the damphoolishness of the underground
organisers in Pitt-street. Their chief aim in life
appears to be to maintain a healthy supply of
“Liberal” deadbeats and wasters in the Assembly,
regardless of all other considerations. At rare in-
tervals a reputable candidate offers. He invariably
gets the leavings of derelicts, who ought to have
been on the rubbish-tip years ago. Take the case of
Jimmy Graham, M.D. Unlike nine-tenths of the
Parliamentary “Liberals,” Graham is an educated
and decently-behaved citizen and a good debater and
platform speaker. Also, he is solvent. So the
clique in the cellar give him Surry Hills to contest
—a seat that couldn’t be won by a “Liberal,” in a
At Last.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There was a stagnant feeling in the air;
Some clocks had stopped, and some of them
had burst;
There was no light but just a vicious glare ;
Si.mt citizens with lank, disordered hair
Waved paper fans and strove to quench
their thirst. *
The city gasped, and commerce took the
count;
The sizzling sun drove wretched Dagoes
mad ;
Of grief each Greek became a ruined fount,
For, through the heat, a very great amount
Of perishable produce had gone bad.
Bad fish and fruit perfumed the prostrate
land ;
The sea spoke seldom in a muffled roar;
And only then, when, on the white-hot sand,
It wished to trundle with its lace-edged hand
Some limp, dead thing it wanted nevermore.
P.N.’s fell due; each curse came home to
roost;
Fatmen exploded, and the moon went blue ;
From all these signs great reasoners deduced
That some terrific Force had been unloosed —
Earth’s youth had ended, and the End was
due.
Dull stars burned dimly,in the tainted air,
Like dying candles in a poisoned shaft:
There was no life—no gladness anywhere;
All things had stopped. And everybody’s hair
Stood up on end when once a madman
laughed.
“What is this curse?” The mighty moan
went up,
And died like thunder in an organ pipe.
Right to the brim was filled pale Sorrow’s
cup—
No Grief was left whereon Earth's fools
might sup.
When someone screamed, “7 know ! THE
TIME IS RIPE ! !”
N.S.W.
THE REELIGIOUS EDITOR.


READING Australian
Company transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident 8
live Stock Insurance.
TO RUM A SUCCESSFUL
MOVING PICTURE SHOW
YOU REQUIRE
Ist. A reliable projection machine.
2nd. The Best and Most Reliable Film
Service in Australia.
3rd. To Trade with a Firm who will
Give You Prompt Attention and
Study Your Interests.
PLACE YOUR ORDERS WITH US,
and you will get satisfaction.
TUI: LI:API\(i CINEMATXKiRAPHIC
* PHOTCXiPAPHIC MhUCH.WLS
SYDNEY
ADELAIDE
m
BRISBANE
WELLINGTON.N Z
Football, the game in which sportive com-
bativeness expresses itself by violent col-
lision with the other fellow, now gives way
to cricket, in which it expresses itself by
scientific collision between bat and ball
But both players and onlookers in each case
are _ inspired to their best sportsmanlike
qualities by occasional counsel with that
sportive spirit of geniality, D.C.L., the
Whisky of the Wise.*
OIL ENGINES.
The Simplest.
The Most Reasonable in Price.
The Most Economical in Oil.
For AH Purposes, and Up to
Any Power.
And Guaranteed for Five Years.
Invincible Motor Construction Co. Ltd.,
WORKS: WOOLWICH DOCK, SYDNEY.
SHOWROOMS: 35 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
And at Melbourne and Adelaida.
No Household
Should ever be without a bottle of Dr. Sheldons
Magnetic Liniment; a reliable remedy for cuts,
bruises, aches, pains, rheumatism and lumbago.
Price, Is. 6d. and 3s,*
CHOWMEN! Write for particulars of the
Kelvin Generating Set for cheap electric
lighting. Terdan’s Ltd., 393 George Street,
straight-out go, if he combined the genius of a
Napoleon with the virtues of an Archangel.
Now, for some obscure reason, barrister H. E.
Manning yearns to board the doomed “Liberal” hulk.
He has many of the qualities ascribed above to
Graham. He is, accordingly, to be allowed to con-
test the Glebe, Hogue's old seat, and Rev. Craw-
ford's present one—a militantly Wowser consti-
tuency that wouldn’t vote for a Romanist to avert
Revolution.
Admittedly, Ware is a rotten skipper; but what
is a man to do with su_h a crew? On the other
hand, if the crew were different 1 suppose Wade
wouldn’t be skipper.
♦
The Transcontinental Railway Gauge.
The dispute about the gauge of the trans-
continental line to Westralia is a matter of
minor importance, the great essentials being
that the railway should be thoroughly fitted
for fast traffic and built in a great
hurry. All the same, there is an
element of weariness about the Federal
Government’s devotion to the curious 4ft.
B£in., or “standard” gauge, or, rather, about
its , constant slavish repetition of the word
“standard.” The 4ft. Bsin. gauge is the
“standard” in some countries, and not in
others. The longest line in the world—the
trans-Siberian—is a sft. proposition. In
India, under British rule, the “standard” is
sft. Gin., in Spain and Portugal it is sft.
sjin., and there are others. Ireland, for in-
stance, has the sft. 3in. standard, and the
coming land of South America believes in
sft. Gin. The 4ft. B£in. arrangement was
not based on a Divine revelation or anything
of the sort. The odd half-inch is supposed
to have come in by accident—probably a 4ft.
Gin. gauge was aimed at, and the measure-
ment was bad. Some kind of gauge had to
be adopted, and as the narrow lines varying
from Ift. Gin. to 3ft. Gin. were considered
unfit for fast traffic, and the 4ft. B£in. was
amply qualified to carry what was then re-
garded as fast traffic, it was widely adopted.
Yet it was nothing save mere accident which
prevented it being 4ft. 7in. or 4ft. lOjin.
Now that really fast traffic is an immense
amount faster than it was when the 4ft.
Biin. gauge came to the front, many engi-
neers regard the sft. 3in. as preferable. Cer-
tainly, if the roads are equally well-built
and the rolling-stock equally good, the wider
line creates less noise and smoother travel-
ling. On the other hand, it is more costly
to build. Australia, being an island, has no
need to trouble with European and Ameri-
can “standards.” As there is never likely to
be railway connection between Brisbane and
San Francisco or Fremantle and Brindisi,
this country is an entirely separate proposi-
tion. In short, it has a chance to think for
itself. At present, it has more completed and
working railway on the sft. 3in. gauge than
on the 4ft. 85m., and if the new transcontin-
ental were built on the broad principle, there
would be through communication immedi-
ately all the way from Fremantle to Albury
(N.S.W.). The adoption of the so-called
“standard” means that there will be a 3ft.
Gin. line from Perth to Kalgoorlie; a 4ft.
B£in. affair from Kalgoorlie to Port
Augusta, and then a long stretch of sft. 3in.
That is a drawback. On the other hand, there
must be uniformity some day, and the cost
of making railways wider is much more than
the cost of making them narrower. So the
3ft. Gin. arrangement would be the cheapest
and least efficient gauge for all Australia;
the 4ft. Biin. would be dearer and better, but
whether even it is quite good enough for swift
long distance traffic is not certain ; the sft.
Sin. would be dearest and best, but whether
the extra superiority is worth the extra cost
is not certain. The question is one to
ue considered on its merits, but it hasn’t
been so considered. The 4ft. B|in. contrap-
tmn may be the best; still it started
with a long lead, partly because
the Yankees have called it “standard” when
it isn’t “standard” —it is only tlieir stan-
dard ; partly because of the slavish tendency
to follow English precedent (though Irish
precedent might perhaps be as good) ; and
partly because the Ma State has the 4ft.
Siin. system—it is the only Australian State
which has—and the Ma State has a habit
of assuming that Australia should follow its
lead all the time.
♦
“Locust” writes:—
The sudden war over Tripoli—a brutal piece of
aggression—recalls to mind the previous experience
of Italy in Abyssinia. That war was commenced by
Italy in a similar way to this present one. Dissatis-
faction at home forced the Italian Government to
try the desperate expedient of war abroad. So a
“nigger nation” was to be offered up as a sacrifice
to appease the malcontents, and all the social and in-
dustrial discontent was to be swallowed up in an
Italian equivalent of Mafeking. In a few months the
Italians were defeated in many skirmishes and one
pitched battle—Adowa. The men were taken pris-
oners by the thousand. Their semi-civilised foes had
quite African ideas of a victory. They mutilated their
prisoners. Some had one foot cut off, some had one
hand, and many more were subjected to nameless
mutilations which rankle in the Italian breast to-day,
and color Italian journalism and literature and art—
a horror upon the national coriscience. If a surgeon
like our Dr. Fiaschi (who hastened to Abyssinia and
found the Italian soldiers still festering for want of
surgical aid) would tell the bare truth over that
business, it would be a human nightmare. In the
face of the defeat and horror, Italy hurriedly with-
drew her troops, and has let Abyssinia carefully
alone ever since. Now she is up against the Turk,
whom everyone who knows him calls a “fine soldier
and a fine fellow.” The Turk is bad in spots, of
course. He is addicted to polygamy just like the
British, French and German aristocracy (and the
practice is not unknown under the Southern Cross).
But he is surrounded by Christian nations whose re-
putations make the visitor blush. There is a saying
that “The Greek robs the Turk; the Jew robs the
Greek; and the Armenian skins the lot of them!”
The Turk is an easy-going, pleasure-loving chap, but
he can fight. He has still enough fanaticism to be-
lieve that “Heaven is to be found in the shadow of
crossing swords.” When the Greeks made war upon
him in 1897, and invaded his territory, he chased
them all the way back over the border. The Greeks
ran nobly, led by the Crown Prince. It was a regu-
lar “retreat from Moscow,” but the route was blazed
by Prince George’s champagne bottles, which were
strewn for miles and miles. The Greek soldiers
never caught up to Prince George, and the Turks
only occasionally caught up to the Greeks. It was a
tarce of which the spirit is admirably shown in
Shaw's „“Arms and the Man,” and the “Chocolate
Soldier.” I heard the war correspondents in Tokio,
in 1903, talking about the steady and disciplined
bravery of the Turks, and praising them for every
manly virtue in the field. Most of the men who
talked had been on the Greek side; and they had the
best view of the Turk, steady when attacked, brave
in defence, splendid in attack. So Italy is not going
to have its brutality justified as easily as it thinks,
the awful shadow of Adowa must be over the army •
and it may congratulate itself that it is dealing with a
civilised branch of the Mahommedan group of nations,
and not again with the half-savage Abvssinians; who
boasted that they sent the Italian prisoners back
in such a condition that they could never again be
invaders—nor even breeders of invaders—of the
sacred soil of Abyssinia.
At a meetiug oi laimers ai Shepparton
(Vic.), the other day, to discuss the wages
question, one of the delegates named Gawne
referred to the Workmen’s Compensation
Gill, which, he said:—
Was of more importance to farmers than wages
or hours. It seemed to him that the country was
gomg mad. Because a man had property he was to
be made liable for all these things.
At a meeting in Melbourne on the same
evening, Donald Mackinnon, M.L.A. nut
it this way :
The question of accident assurance was before
lariiament at the present time. It was a disgrace
to the state that such a measure had not been in-
l be t? T re \ Victoria was the only State that
had not a Workers’ Compensation Act.
Gawne appears to be a relic of the lovely
days of old, when the injured workman was
shot out, his wages stopped, and his wife
and family, if he had any, left to support
themselves as best they could. The employer
didn t trouble. There were whips of work-
men ; and it was an article of faith with the
employer that his interests were paramount,
in tact, the workman wasn’t supposed to
have any interests at all. But those good old
days have gone, and to-day even slow-moving
Gull has a Workers’ Compensation Act.
it s a fairly sudden measure in places, too.
As an instance, not very long ago, a ship’s
ofiicer in charge of the watch was seen safe
on the bridge at 7 a.m., but after that was
not witnessed again. There was no evidence
as to what happened to him, but he had com-
plained of feeling sick and giddy. Compen-
sation, was claimed by his dependents, and
the Judge, deciding that the presumption
in the circumstances was that the man
tell overboard and was drowned, by
an accident arising out of his employ-
ment, allowed the claim. An appeal by the
employers, first to the Court of Appeai and
if,^? ouse , °f Lords, was jumped on.
btill, GAWNE s opinion is worth having, just
the same as the hide of a pterodactyl would
be worth having. In fact, it would almost
in near in this instance that one covers the
other.
During the discussion in the JNT.S.W. As-
few days ago, concerning the pro-
posed Dunedoo-Coonabarabran railway Var-
net Parties exposed some under-planks in
the platform of the local timber business.
Two N.S. \V. firms, he said, have a mono-
poly of the sleeper trade, and—
they sublet the contracts to unfortunate small
cutters Sometimes 2000 or 3000 sleepers are sent
up to Sydney... The sub-contractors are informed
that a certain number of sleepers have not passed
th ® Government inspection; they are seized, and
what becomes of the sleepers no one knows...
Thousands and thousands of sleepers are thus ob-
tained in the city of Sydney or at some port of de-
livery. They disappear; they are never paid for •
they become part and parcel of this great monopoly.
j . 18 < j a j e they [the Government] would be
justified in seizing the forests, and cancelling the
leases they have given. 8
Minister for Works Griffith did not give
any hint that he proposed to go to that ex-
tent, but he made it clear that he had
already taken steps to place contracts in
hands of “small” sleeper-getters direct,
and that he was sharpening his axe to ring-
bark one more monopoly—one that flourishes
in the very place the Sydney Tory news-
papers declared, when the Referenda was
under discussion, to be a clear patch.
>♦
J. C. Williamson’s fortune, according to American
newspaper estimates, was a million dollars when he
landed at ’Frisco. It was five millions when he
reached Chicago, and seven millions in New York.
He is waiting till it reaches 10 millions, and then he
will make them prove it.
f'O.K.”; The renovated Her Majesty’s (Melb.) re-
minds one of the adaged vessel that is spoilt for lack
of another ha’porth of tar. Looking towards the
stage, or gazing upwards right round to the back of
the gallery, everything is light, bright and clean.
Buff and gold, an arc of electric lights, clusters of
ditto, a general air of newness. But behind all this
splendor there remains the sombre wall paper an
environment of gloom. Looking towards the audi-
torium from a box, or glancing left and right from
tne centre of the circle, one gets an impression of
dull care waiting on frivolity. The highly illumin-
ated proscenium, of course, is a very trying frame
for a shabby stage picture; but that is a matter
apart from the other incongruity. The picture is
oftener gay than shabby, and for a panto, the frame
cannot be too gladsome.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMTNO WRRK.
Her Majesty’s Melba Opera Co.
Royal “The Speckled Band.”
Criterion “Lady Frederick.”
Adklphi “ Humping the Bluey.”
Tivoli RicKartis’ Vaudeville Co.
Palace “Nobody’s Daughter.”
Lyceum Spencer’s Pictures.
National Amphitheatre Brennan’s Vaudeville Co.
Lyk.ic Continuous Pictures.
Colonial (Nos. 1&2) .. Continuous Pictures.
Alhambra Continuous Pictures.
Glaciariom West’s Pictures.
Victoria Continuous Pictures.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK
Princess’s “A Girl’s Temptation."
Her Majesty’s “Louis XI.”
Royal “ The Chocolate Soldier.”
Kino’s “ The Sorrows of Satan.”
Opera House Rickards’Vaudeville Co
Glaciarium Taits’ Pictures.
West’s Palace West’s Pictures.
Olympia Spencer’s Pictures
Lyric, Prahran Photo Plays.
Athenaeum Hall Nicola.
Town Hall Ben Davies and Esta rPArgo.
“Faust,” with Melba as the flaxen-haired
Marguerite, excited a mild riot in Her Maj-
esty’s (Sydney) on Monday night. The
Nightingale’s notes have squeezed through
their recent throat trouble without any sign
of damage, and the flawless purity of tone
remains in its old place. In the “Jewel
Song”—so often butchered by unpromising
sopranos—Melba broke, smashed up and
tore away from her own record. The audi-
ence eventually found its self-possession and
its latchkey and took the last tram home.
Puccini’s opera “La Tbsca,” with the Polish
Wayda and John McCormack in the star
trills, was due last night, and happened, bar
accidents. Tosca, with musical trimmings,
is raising her voice in song for the first time
on this continent. And The Bulletin
hopes that Scarpia has a long and miserable
death to slow music. He is a bad character
and deserves it. When Mrs. Brown Potter
slew Bellew hereabouts, his end was not so
bad as it should have been, but it was as bad
as the lady could make it, seeing that she
was in a hurry. There are fears that
Wayda, out of the kindness of her heart, may
not slay the Baron quite dead enough.
* x- *
“Nobody’s Daughter” continues to boom
at the Palace. As the advt. remarks, “there
are tears in it,” and tears are as appealing
to one section of the community as beers are
to another.
* * * *■
On Wednesday next, “Lady Frederick”
withdraws her bright smile, bewitching
brogue, highly-finished art and other price-
less assets from Sydney, certainly for long,
and it may be for ever. It is a show that
should be visited by those who wish to say,
hereafter, that they saw one of the finest
comedy actresses of her generation, in a part
that suited her well.
“LADY FREDERICK"
AT SYDNEY CRT.
Lady Frederick refuses the
hand of Admiral Carlisle
(Gilbert Forteous). The
successful suitor (Stephen
Ewart) in attendance.
A r i i\/r j-- t 1 , n, „
Maude Mortimer, Johnson and Wells
9H een an d He Brun, the 1 otter-Hartwell
jT 1 ® a tbe magnets on which
m^ na S e ™ ent has
been relying dunng the past week. The
rst-named will be heard no more after I ri-
day next, but the rest will continue to
charm and astound, as of yore.
. The Smugglers” was the chief attrac-
tion at the Lyceum picture-show during the
week—a good story of the inside running of
American smuggling gangs. “Australian
Cadets Leaving London” is *a film of local
carf 1 he"* wlsdl v °rpcnkn pwi faCGtb e crowd
Phipk ” nr? From Egg to
Self k At WnnlHn t r i rplrP iC « tUre ’, e ? plams
nnnv' ia n CGr S I® 11 ?
p , ? ]f . Sweet Tsell, which
stewnrf is i n tho r,nw wee^s ‘ -^ el lie
Stewart is in the name part.
All for Gold, the Australian photo-plav
which won the prize given by West’s, was
screened on Monday evening to a large audi-
ence composed of all the photo-actors in
Sydney, plus the public. The photo-actor
nas a joy that no other actor ever has * he
can see himself act. “All for Gold,” writ-
ten by l'ercy, the comedian, is admirably
produced. It is a wild and whirling tale
about a mining claim, and a girl, and a polite
but terrible villain. This villain pinions
tbe hero, and throws him over a cliff with-
out any serious effect on his constitution, and
the girl rescues him per medium of a motor-
launch, motor-car and horse. The storv is
too long drawn out; but has its exciting mo-
ments, among which the race of the motor-
car with the Hornsby train is a triumph
ot photo art. The production shows that
the photo-play can be manufactured just as
well in Australia.
"THE SPECKLED
BAND."
Fred Cambourne
as Mr. Arm it aye
(son of a
Methodist.)
Between the intervals at the Adelplii
there is a Marlowdrama, named, for some
unknown reason, “Humping the Bluey,” in
which appear a hero, a heroine, several vil-
lains, an English new chum, and some funny
people. The villains get shot; the others
have more luck than they deserve, and are
still alive at 11 p.m. The play is a busli-
ranging yarn of a poor settler, who is caught
by a gang which demands ransom. The
only available person likely to have the
money is a squatter with whom the settler’s
wife has had a row. He will only produce
the cash on condition that she runs aivay
with him, and, after nearly chewing two
fingers off, she consents. Next, the villain
is shot, and the settler, who has been liber-
ated, is gaoled for it. Later, in a scrap
with the police, an outlaw is wounded and
caught. He confesses to the murder, then
dies, and the settler—etc. Cecil Mannering,
as the settler. Ada Guildford as his wife.
Stanford as the bushranger, and Ronald
Riley as the villain, are the chief partisans,
and they do just as well as they have done
many times before, though most times they
have had better material to do it with. The
scenery is very good, particularly a water-
fall scene.
** * *
Horror is being supplied, not in single
pints, but in barrels, at Sydney Royal these
nights. Vast crowds roll up as soon as the
doors open, to see Gaston Mervale gibber,
and Atholwood, his butler, cringe; and there
are hosts . of admirers, both for the real
snake, w r hich appears in Act 2, and for the
property reptile, which is waggled at Sher-
lock Holmes (and subsequently beaten about
the head by him") at the end of the play.
Altogether, a production which no lover of
the penny dreadful in dramatic guise should
miss.
*# * *
The two Finneys’ crystal tank act is the
latest inducement offered by the Tivoli man-
agement to its patrons. The lady is graceful
and a fine performer; but it is the male
partner who supplies the largest thrill by
remaining submerged for nearly three min-
utes. during, which time he eats, sleeps,
drinks and picks up coins in his mouth. This
part of the turn indirectly suggests that a
sketch of a company promoter making money
out of watered stock might draw. A State
Treasurer head over ears in I O U’s, .and
still able to eat, smoke and sleep in comfort
would be too commonplace a spectacle, j The
Saxonys, a newly-arrived team of dancers,
also assist the bill. Other amusement pro-
viders still available are Zelini (juggler),
Armstrong and Kelly (comedians), the four
Kasracs (acrobats) and Harry Allister (im-
personator).
** * *
The principal Adelaide features in a quiet
week have been the fine playing of Harcourt
Beatty and Dorothy Grimston. at the
King’s, in a Russian spy one-act drama
(which needs a few more vigorous incidents
to brisk it up), and the baritone voice of
Ossipofif at the Tivoli. The latter house
has a “sketch” also, but of the comedy
order, played by Frank Hawthorne’s co-
Albert Rees is a pleasant frivoller, . and
McLallen and Carson have just come in.to
skate. The Royal gets busy again with
“Jack and the Beanstalk”; Adelaide is
thankful for an occasional pantomime, and
makes it welcome any old time it likes to
drop in.
** # *
“The Bells” that broke up the. Burgo-
master will ring no more at Her Majesty’s
(Melb.) after Friday. Meanwhile, Matthias
Irving is groaning and sweating under a
weary conscience, like a true son of his
parent. His conscience ought not to be
weary, seeing that it slept for 15 years; but
strange things happen in melodrama, especi-
ally to actors whose lines, as a rule, are cast


CHRISTMAS EDITION of
“THE BULLETIN,” 1911.
A Special and Enlarged Issue
Published on DECEMBER 14.
It will contain the best Stories, Verse and
Sketches, grave and gay (mostly gay), con-
tributed during the year by the foremost Aus-
tralasian writers.
The illustrations, by “Hop,” Alf Vincent, Nor-
man Lindsay and other leading representative
artists, will be the finest Black and White work
obtainable in Australia, and will reflect the
national humor.
The Bulletin Christmas Number is the annual
reflection of the life and thoughts of our country,
and therefore useful as well as interesting.
Agents will be supplied at the usual rates, but,
in consequence of the heavy outlay on this Special
Edition, NO RETURNS will be accepted.
ORDERS FOR EXTRA COPIES should reach
us not later than the 18th NOVEMBER to ensure
supply.
Single copies post free to any part of the Com-
monwealth States and Maoriland, 7d.; Foreign
addresses, 9d.
'AUSTRALIAN MEAT EATERS.
Australians' are such heavy meat eaters that we are
fast becoming a nation of dyspeptics,' and it is telling
on the general health of the country. Constipation
is the forerunner of this complaint, and if you have
anv signs of it you should not hesitate to get a box
of Chamberlain’s Tablets at once. They are a posi-
tive cure for this complaint.*
International Patents and Trade
Marks. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street,
Melbourne, and Eagle Chambers, Adelaide,
-•-hirty years’ practice. Correspondence invited.*
Keep it
On Hand
WOLFES
SCHNAPPS.
The Household Disinfectant
Carbolacene
Cleanses and Disinfects in One Act.
Sold Everywhere.
l/3
in gruesome places. Last Saturday the
Scotch College boys gathered at Her Maj-
esty’s, and Irving did his best to congeal
their young blood, and make their flesh
creep and turn them into fretful porpen-
tines as regards their heads of hair. Pro-
bably he failed in his artistic endeavor, for
it takes a terrible lot to scarify a boy. Next
Saturday (14tli), Irving will convert him-
self into Louis XI., and after six nights of
that badly-slandered old monarch, he will
divide his attentions between Dr. Jekyll and
Mr. Hyde.
“ THE BELLS ”
AT HER
MAJESTYS,
MELBOURNE.
Matthias (H. B.
Irving) hears the
bells.
There is neither rnyme nor reason in Roy
Redgrave’s version of “The Sorrows of
Satan,” staged very liberally at Melbourne
King’s last Saturday. It abounds in tire-
some small-talk and claptraptious twaddle,
and seems unsuited even to a public that is
attracted by its Corellian title. Moreover, a
number of uninteresting background parts
are horribly unsuited to the co. Most of the
talk and action are shared among Roy Red-
grave, Rutland Beckett, Miss Olive Wilton
and Miss D’Alton. The Devil that Red-
grave impersonates gets the lion’s share of
the “fat” —the sort of fat that delights the
average actor and makes the average audi-
ence feel ill early in the evening. Beckett
plays his long and foolish part with notable
ease and intelligence, and Miss D’Alton’s
presentment of a lady journalist is more
sweetly complimentary to the craft than the
appearance of Bailey and Harrison as male-
animal journalists. These are outrages when
sober, and brutal atrocities when drunk.
Seeing that any sort of journalist character
must necessarily be degraded if it is to touch
the low-comedian level, there can be no need
for the low comedian to kick it when it is
down.
** * *
The season of “The Chocolate Soldier,” at
Melbourne Royal, ends in the week after
next. Once in a way, Miss Amy Murphy
takes Miss O'Connor’s place as Nadina, but
usually the cast is as it was in the begin-
ning, and always the chorus is the same, or
even better.
“A MAID OF HONOR ”
AT HER MAJESTYS
(Melbourne).
The Maid
of Honor
(Dorothea
Baird) decides
to die with
her lover.
Last week's bill at the Repertory Theatre
was “The Revolt,” a gloomy playlet of the
wife versus husband order, and “The Foun-
tain,” which is a political-economy comedy
in three cheerful acts, by George Calderon.
The curtain-raiser amounted to nothing
worth mentioning either as a moral lesson
or an amateur performance, though the lady-
mummer in the case—-Miss Tanswell—scored
a pictorial success. ’ The Fountain,” what-
ever may be its intention, practically pleads
for Labor Government in Britain, by ridi-
culing the futility of Private Enterprise in
an attempt to help the “lowah ordahs.” Mr.
Wren confines himself to the preaching of
Socialism, whilst young Mrs. Wren, with
the connivance of an unfledged parson, starts
a benevolent pawnbrokery and financial aid
society on her own. Ultimately, she dis-
covers that her private income is squeezed
from the very slum-dwellers she is trying to
assist, after which her husband reduces her
generous impulses to subjection; and they
return to their comfortable home to wait for
the Government to do something. Miss
Maud Joliffe, who shines brilliantly among
amateurs, played the leading part in her
happiest style, and Miss Handley, Miss
Rubina Ward and Miss Barnes were more
satisfactory than a lot of other people—ex-
cept, perhaps, Donald Alsop as Mr. Wren.
To-night (Thursday) the present session at
the Repertory closes with a second perform-
ance of “The Voysey Inheritance.”
** # *
A woman scorned, or a maniac in an iron
tank, is a calm, reposeful episode compared
to “A Girl’s Temptation,” the Marlow-
drama, which commenced to gibber at the
Princess’s on Saturday night. After sitting
through four acts of blithering incoherence,
this paper came away with the most con-
fused notions as to what it was all about —
and if so, why? George Cross, the son of a
millionaire, conceives a “pewer and honor-
able affection” for one of the nymphs em-
ployed at his old man’s mill. Dodging the
bitter curses of their respective parents, the
two run away together, much to the annoy-
ance of Lady Constance, an aristocratic
female with a hard voice, who has ear-marked
George for her own. In the next act the
fond runaways are found living together,
with matrimony still in view. To put an
end to this unseemly state of affairs, villain
Diver arranges for the hard-voiced lady to
lure George to London, whereupon he enters
the heroine's bedroom and removes his col-
lar. coat and vest. The unmaking of his
toilet has just reached an interesting stage,
when George Cross, greatly expected by all
who know him in the audience, returns to
tell his lady-love, Kate, that her real name
is Flossie. Naturally, he curses Diver like-
wise, and rushes into tne wings. In the
next act George is suffering from gin, Kate
is suffering from the usual infant, and the
audience is suffering from ennui. Every-
body continues to suffer more or less for a
couple of acts, and on the first night it was
not until 11.15 that the millionheir took his
mill-girl in his arms, and left Diver to be
dealt with by the mills of God. George
Cross looks like a hero who has been brought
up on Somebody’s patent food ; while Harry
Diver’s villain looks as if he has gone with-
out food for a long time, and is suffering
from a stiff neck. The heroine is really
only an animated sniffle; however, Elwyn
Harvey does as well as can be expected with
the part. Oriel Hotson’s impersonation of
Lady Constance Heathfield only increases
this writer’s profound disrespect for the Bull
aristocracy.
** * *
Although the warm weather has, so far,
failed to eventuate, the ice at Taits’
Glaciarium has melted, thawed and re-
solved itself into a Jew—a Polish
Jew, to be precise, who is nightly
murdered, on the picture screen, by Arthur
Styan, and deposited in an adjacent lime-
kiln. After listening to H. B. Irving shriek-
ing through three acts of “The Bells." to
sit and watch this silent pictorial dramatisa-
tion has the same soothing effect as a copl
beer after a heated argument. “The Bells’’
picture is a local production, in which
Matthias is played by Arthur Styan, who
murders the Hebrew with creditable neat-
ness and despatch.
** m *
Napoleon’s finale at St. Helena was ably
pictured at West’s, Melbourne, last week.
Pathe Frferes are said to have arranged
and photoed the scenes on the very Rock
that Julius Knight was told to beware of.
An interesting picture shows ancient
Pesaro snoozing in a midday sun, while a
curious item by a London firm details the
manners and customs of aquatic beasts. It
was interesting to see a crab consume a worm
much in the style of an old gentleman chew-
ing a prawn.
at * * &
“What Women Suffer” was the chief rest-
less picture at the P'ran Lyric (Melb.) last
Saturday night. The long and rather dis-
jointed story contained some delightful vio-
lence and hugger-mugger. In “Proving His
Love” there was much affection of a gluey
nature; also “The Country Cupid” was
stuffed with amorous moments. “Hell Up-
to-date” gave numerous glimpses of a
T.ophet fitted up as a cross between a foun-
dry and a modern hotel.
* * * as
J. P. Ling re-arrived at the Opera House
on Saturday, and gave an imitation of a
wild Caledonian at a hoofball match. Clarke
and Mostol have talked and danced their way
into the collective heart or the “gods.” The
two shuffle their feet with praiseworthy
unanimity, and their patter is moderately
amusing along strictly conservative lines.
The last nights are announced of Alcide
Capitaine, about whom a poem could be
written, only the Beauty Editor, who attends
to this class of poetry, is at present suffering
from delirium tremens. Others who figure
in large tvpe in the bill are Louie Tracy,
who impersonates types of masculinity met
with only on the vaudeville stage; and Sam
Mayo, whose singing resembles the hoarse
gurgles of a choked-up waterspout on a
rainy afternoon. Also, Ridiculous Recco is
still among those present; this fact is merely
mentioned as an indication of the patience
and forbearance of Mr. Richards’s patrons.
** * *
“Maoriland”: The Macmahon brothers,
who have already successfully established,
in Wellington (M.L.), a “Continuous” pic-
ture theatre by reconstructing the old Fed-
eral Hall in Manners-street,- and evolving it
into a pretty and commodious picture-play
house, are now building a similar theatre in
Queen-street, Auckland, next to the site of
the new G.P.0., which is about the pick ot
the city. The theatre, it is claimed, will be
one of the most up-to-date of its kind in the
Southern Hemisphere. It will be ready for
business about five weeks hence.
THE SORROWS OF SATAN.
[FOR THE BULLEITN.]
Prince Satan lived in London at an up-to-
date hotel, . . ■
Where he passed the time in talking of Ins
famous Fall to Hell.
For the lines His Nibs was built on
llad been penned by poet Milton,
And his mother was the Marie whom, tor
short, we call Corell.
Here he talked and talked absurdly with a
strangely silly set;
And to tempt mankind to evil was his rule
of etiquette ;
But he brooded on the morrow
In an agony of sorrow.
And he wiped his pencilled eyelids to express
his deep regret.
Ilis pal and pupil, Geoffrey, was a multi-
millionaire . .
Whose wife made love to Satan, being trail
as she was fair;
And all the other ladies
Loved the weepful l'rince of Hades,
Save a literary person by the name ot Mavis
Clare.
When he offered sweet temptation, which
they cdulun’t well resist,
There was nothing left for Satan but to add
them to his list;
Thus he deepened his distresses
With professional successes, < 1
Till, at last, he struck an angel in the lady
journalist.
His friends were mostly “goners,” and his
heart was very sore ; .
The matron who had wooed him lay a-
corpsSd on the floor!
The hour was past eleven
When he got his glimpse of Heaven,
Through the woman-writer mentioned in the
stanza heretofore.
The moment had arrived for Geof. to vanish
from the scene
With the master whose disciple he had inno-
cently been ;
But the Devil, kind and human,
Cried: “Here’s me, and there s the
woman;
We are rival propositions, and 111 let you
choose between.”
The doom of Geoffrey melted like a summer
morning mist;
He made a dash at Mavis, and he caught her
by the wrist;
And the Devil rose to glory
As the hero of a story
Which The Bulletin accepted trom that
Lady Journalist.
VICTORIA.
O.K.
AT POVERTY POINT.
Herbert Favel, who was rushed into the name-
part in “The Chocolate Soldier” when Leslie Gaze
fell sick, had never before figured on the stage, even
as an amateur. Gaze’s official understudy (Wallace)
was not yet ready to take up the part, so the man-
agement, knowing of Favel as a young singer who
had learned the music and words, asked him to till
the understudy’s place pro tern. All things con-
sidered, he did well. He made his first crude attempt
at three hours’ notice, in a matinee performance,
and managed to get through. That night, and tor
one more night he filled the gap, improving with
practice. Then Wallace was ready for the part,
and young Favel retired from the limelight with the
new title of second understudy. He is a Sydney
boy, a pupil of Asprey, and he intends to take his
voice to England next year, and try his luck on the
operatic stage.
“Milo”: At the Poster Exhibition, in the Mel-
bourne Town Hall the other night, I saw an excellent
display, before a crowd of interested ladies, by
gentlemen of Weber’s Physical College. I begin to
suspect that there may be truth in the gibe that
women are only employed in the ballet because they
are cheaper than men. Weber’s pupils only wore
waistlets or hiplets, so the ladies gazed on truly
magnificent displays of muscles in arms, backs,
chests and stomachs. Limelight was flung on the
performer, with a black background; and thus the
great antique statues were displayed m flesh and
blood, the Apollo Belvidere, the Qumt rhrower or
Discobolus, Dying Gladiator, and so forth. What a
shriek there would have been over this m the last
generation! Now, nary a pulpit in Melbourne ob-
jected ; and surely the ladies didn’t.
“Condot”: Otto Linden, one of Melbourne’s best-
known musicians, died suddenly last week. He came
of an old Swedish-German family, and was adequately
proud of his origin. In his youth he scratched for
gold in California, and prospered; then, in the 50s,
he moved to Melbourne and tried to soothe the savage
breasts of the feverish folks of the diggings days
with music. They didn’t want soothing, so he re-
turned to California. In the ’7o’s he came back to
Victoria, and achieved some distinction. He and
T H Guenett conducted popular concerts of cham-
ber music, with a lot of success for many years.
He was musical director of the Hobart Exhibition,
and had the same billet at the Coolgardie Exhibition.
After a little sojourn in Perth he returned to Mel-
bourne, and waved the waddy for St. Pat s Cathedral
choir. His principal work in Melbourne was the pro-
duction of the opera, “Tzar and Zimmermann, which
was staged in aid of chanties, and did everybody
proud. His daughter, Margaret, is on the stage.
“Stargazer”: A feature of Dorothea Baird’s peculiar
stage behavior is her apparent inability to sit down.
If the business calls upon her to be seated, she
assumes a partially-crumpled attitude, but never gets
right down to the chair or sofa. During rehearsals
she can get comfortably into a seat, but in front of
an audience she is apparently never able to let go
of herself so far as to subside comfortably. It is no
doubt an effect of the peculiar “stringing-up” with
which most pros, are familiar.
“Parasine”.: The story of “The Bells” was first told
in dramatic form at the little Theatre Cluny in
Paris, where Irving saw it played. The original
Matthias was Taillade, though Got and Coquelin
also played the part. The Gallic conception was a
fat, sleek, stolid hypocrite ; the emaciated tarantula-
like Yid being Irving’s idea entirely. Irving's
Matthias was really, of course, a maniac. Yet it was
a matchless work of genius in the eccentric and im-
possible, such a wild and glorious bit of painting
as, one may see in the most erratic excursions of
Turner or Tintoretti. By the way, the adapter of
“The Bells,” Leopold Lewis, a London solicitor,
was ruined by his success. He died a pensioner on
Irving. His mid-Victorian clients fell away when
they found their legal adviser was anything so
frivolous as a playwright.
“Theorbo” : All the Melbas of the future will not
keep “Faust” alive as the churches will keep alive
Gounod’s “Messe Solennelle.” By very long odds it
is the most popular of all masses. Cardinal Cullen,
the Irish Primate—Cardinal Moran’s uncle—forbade
it as sensuous, but it sprang up again,' even in Ire-
land. The present Pope, going further, condemns
even Mozart, Haydn and Weber in one batch. How-
ever, Popes come and go; the “Messe Solennelle”
keeps on for ever. St. Pat.’s, Melbourne, had it on
Sunday, October 1, for Archbishop Carr’s silver
jubilee. This, they say, was the finest Australian
performance, and no doubt they are right. There
was a choir of 75, with oraan, drums, trumpets,
horns, violins, ’cello, full orchestra —all worthy of
the Paris Madeleine. Professor Beard, as conductor,
was a special enthusiast, having played the organ,
at Birmingham Cathedral, when Gounod himself
conducted this mass. An ebullient Ttbman writes
that it is the favorite mass of Sydney, Melbourne,
Buenos Ayres, Chicago, Cologne, Dublin, Florence,
Geelong, Lisbon, London, Madrid, Mexico, Milan,
Montreal, Naples, New York, Paris, Rio, Seville,
Tipperary, Toledo, Venice and Vienna. After which
I withdraw the flute from my lips to take a breath.
“Cassandra”: In reply to Edwin Geach (B.
28/9/’l 1), lam not president of the Ice Carters’
Association or the Pessimists’ Club, but I am presi-
dent, secretary and general committee of the newly-
formed I Told You So Society, founded for the dis-
couragement of Rash Enterprise. Edwin Geach may
be quite right that 95 per cent, of the population are
pining for picture shows; but the I Told You So
Society’s contention is that picture-show promoters,
in their spacious optimism, have .multiplied the
population by two or three, and are catering ac-
cordingly. The love of roller-skating has never died
out in Melbourne; but rink-promoters, profiting by
sad experience, of late years have kept supply down
to demand, and are happy in consequence, in former
years they were not so wise, wherefore Melbourne is
strewn with the wrecks of one-time rinks, now doing
duty as Salv’army barracks and dance-halls. In
1885, James Service optimistically sketched for the
visiting J. A. Froude an Australia having at the
end of half a century 50 million inhabitants.
Froude, being the owner of a refrigerating plarit,
had his doots about the matter (he would have been
eligible for our society). There are 25 years still
to run, and we only want another 45,000,000 inhabi-
tants to justify the far-seeing Jamie Service. Still,
let them all come, for at the present rate of picture-
show promotion, the anticipated 50 millions will be
fully catered for.
“Ami”: The late Stirling Whvte came to Aus-
tralia with H. H. Vincent, John Owen, Walter Rey-
nolds, Marian Meadway, Ella Carrington and Grace
Hathaway, all consigned to Coppin’s order, for the
Melbourne Royal, in 1873. When the Royal had
been rebuilt, after the fire of 1872, Coppin uttered
ominous words about new blood being needed. The
pros, said it was only owing to a desire to overload
the market and pave the way for salary-cutting.
The new blood opened in “New Men and Old Acres,”
then made popular in England by Ellen Terry and her
husband Kelly. Whyte was always an old-man actor,
and his taste was for Scotch characters, such as
Bailie Nicol Jarvie, Dandie Dinmont, and Jock
Howieson, in “Cramond Brig.” With a bad voice,
recognised under any disguise in a moment, he was
always distinct. As a character-actor he only got
proper scope with Rignold. He was at his very best
in something which inclined to the rogue and vaga-
bond. Yet in real life he was sterling and white, in-
deed. It was absolutely painful for him not to pay
in advance; hence he was, perhaps, the greatest of
all favorites with landladies. How such a plain
business-man came to be stage-struck is one of the
mysteries. He ought to have been a millionaire
dealer in plaids, or an Aberdeen or Leith boss her-
ring-man. Whatever he was, he would be one of the
best, in the sense of uprightness.
New York telegrams in the latest London papers
announce that May Yohe, who started her variegated
career as a member of Frank M. Clark’s “Silk Stock-
ings” Co., at the Victoria Hall, Melbourne, is about
to marry for the fifth time. “Jack McAuliffe, former
lightweight champion,” is the gentleman nominated.
Reuter mentioned about six months ago that May
was singing during dinners at a San Francisco
restaurant, and, while so engaged, was stricken with
partial paralysis. At one time she was a prospective
Duchess, the wife of Lord Francis Hope, brother and
heir-presumptive of the Duke of Newcastle ; but she
threw away her chance of wearing a coronet by
eloping with a son of Major Strong, of N’York,
whom she married, after having been divorced by
Lord Francis. She was again divorced by Strong,
whereupon she married Newton Brown, of N’York,
whom she subsequently exchanged for a Canadian
named Murphy. There is no boundless exclusiveness
about May.
“Sanitas” on a painful subject:—
When the Medical Conference delegates visited
Jenolan Caves (N.S.W.) the other day, they were
accompanied by a person “in an advanced stage of
consumption,” who repeatedly spat, as he wandered
round observing the beauties of underground Nature.
A medical man wrote in horror to the Sydney dailies,
pointing out that, in the still, damp, sunless atmo-
sphere of the caves, phthisis germs would thrive and
multiply exceedingly ; and he called for penalties to
be imposed on all who so endangered their fellow-
citizens’ lives. But why limit the thing to con-
sumptives in caves? Why should anyone be allowed
to spit in any place where people have to walk?
The pavements of Sydney and Melbourne provide
loathly examples, every day of the week, of the
chronic spitter’s disregard for the health and com-
fort of others. He should be scotched just as de-
cisively as the cave-frequenter, and regardless of
whether he is phthisical or otherwise diseased, and
so must spit; or is well, and a spitter for no other
reason than that he is a natural hog. If the Sydney
and Melbourne police did their duty in this regard,
as the Adelaide police have done, the pavement de-
filer could be exorcised in short order. As they ap-
parently won’t, other measures might be tried. It
would pay the cities concerned, if only by way of
improved “health, to offer rewards to those who re-
ported offenders against the spitting by-laws.


Two Good Quality fiats
gsd
This illustration depicts the Real Indian Pith
Helmet, known also as the Solar Topee. It is
exceedingly light in weight, and' quite sunproof.
The color is Grey, with Grey Silk Puggaree; it
is perfectly ventilated all round head i'J/fa
band. Price, in all sizes u / u
The Ideal Hat for the Country, with wide brim
(as illustration), measuring 3Jin. This Hat is
made of Fur, and is soft and pliable, and can be
rolled up like a Panama. In Reseda Green, Cigar
Brown, and Medium Grey, with unbound n
brim. Also, Grey, with bound brim V O
WE PAY CARRIACE on Men’s Hats to any part of Australasia or the Pacific Islands
DAVID JONES LTD., Sydney.
No Wood! No Coal! No Gas!
No Ashes, Dirt, Smell, Smoke or Soot.
The New Blue Flame
PERFECTION Oil Cook Stove
CHEAPER THAN GAS!
QUICKER THAN WOOD!
L. : ; CLEANER THAN COAL-
VACUUM OIL CO. PTY. CTO.
SOCIETY
Robinson Snowball, who represents the
pipped Orange in the Vic. Assembly, thought
to work off a choice piece of sarcasm by ask-
ing the Weary Government if it intended in
its future contracts to grant a preference to
non-unionists; but the stupidity got only the
necessary formal reply from Watt. Never-
theless, this paper is glad to assume that
Snowball disapproves of preference, and
wouldn’t dream of giving preference to a
Derryite over a Catholic, other things being-
equal.
FULL DETAILS.
HAND MAIDEN: “Is Mrs. Smith in? I'll go
and ask. Stand right there in the light so
she can see you through the keyhole. Then
I'll tell you whether she's in or not.”
Private Enterprise, of a sort, got some-
thing of a shock in Victoria the other day.
It was a builder, and happened into court at
Coburg on charges of putting unsound
material into and neglecting to properly con-
struct a building in that suburb. The coun-
cil’s engineer swore that the enigma, nomin-
ally a house, was insecurely framed, out of
plumb, and lined with rejected material
which was largely knot-holes. The floors
were cracked and uneven, the window-frames
dry-rotten, and the roof so badly tied on that
it could be pushed up and down with the
hand. The putty used appeared, he said, to
be of fair quality, and more than fair
quantity, but every other item in the menu
had something wrong with it. Also, the
blessed thing had blown over once while in
course of erection, and there was no guaran-
tee that it wouldn’t do so again and get in
the way of the neighborhood’s lt
was an unusual charge for a council to lay,
though Heaven knows it ought to be very
frequent: but possibly its scarceness is ex-
plained by the Bench’s remark at its con-
clusion —“40s. on each charge.” No order
that the eyesore should be pulled down and
built afresh ; no direction that the plans be
submitted to the council beforehand; no
nothing. Just “forty bob,” the same as any
old uproarious “drunk.”
If Victoria’s House of Fat proves com-
plaisant, that State will shortly present its
sweated clerks with a Minimum Wage Board,
and then commercialism will for a while be
an enraged and rabid beast. At least some
of it will, though, for tne present, banks, in-
surance offices, building societies, friendly
dittos, trustee companies and Gentlemen One
will escape, the Weary Government having-
decided that to include all clerks in one sud-
den act would cause Fat to bellow that the
time had not yet arrived, and reject the reso-
lution. In moving the resolution, Minister
Watt gave the Assembly a few figures furn-
ished and vouched for by the Victorian
Clerks' Union. Firm a had 17 clerks, six
of whom were adults, and none got more than
40s. a week. Firm B had four, all adults ;
wages 505., 305., 2os. and 205.; hours from
52 to 70 per week. Firm C has 40 clerks,
of whom eight adult males receive 255. a
week each. Firm D has 41 clerks ; one adult
gets 205., three get 255., and four 30s. a week
each. But it was a pity Watt didn’t give
the names of the firms, because next day the
Employers’ Federation secretary rushed into
print to state that none of these firms, ob-
viously big ones, belonged to his organisa-
tion. There is, indeed, an unreliable rumor
that the Employers’ Federation really con-
sists of president Blackwood and the secre-
tary.
* * * *
“G.S.A.”: After battling for it from the
time the original Angas landed, the people of
Angaston (S.A.) have a railway—just an
ordinary railway. At first the officials who
were sent up had a lot of trouble with the
inhabitants, mostly bush-bred Germans, over
the sale of tickets. But they have got edu-
cated now ; and when they are asked for a
“go-away” they simply a single, and when its
a “come-back” they pass out a return.
Thus “Brass
Button”: Any-
one wh o reads
the shipping col-
umn in the pa-
pers may see re-
gular notices of
the arrivals and
sailings of the
barge Helen Den-
ny. It is an in-
teresting craft,
one of the old-
time square-
rigged wincT-jam-
mers, and back
in the ’6o’s a
fast - passage
Southern Ocean
clipper. What
would the skip-
pers who walked
the' snowy decks
under the shadow
of the towering-
pyramid of can-
vas say if they
could see their
ancient pride
wearing
out its bones
ferrying coal and
timber to and
fro over the Tas-
man Sea? It was
one of the first of
the steel-built
ships launched
from the famous
yards of Denny
of Dumbarton,
and the figure-
head it still car-
ries is a present-
ment of the lady
whose name it bears, the wife of Colonel
Denny. Fifty years of steady work is not
a bad record, especially when a big lump of
it was the rack and strain work of quick
passages in days when skippers took a de-
light in being pointed to as “devils to drive,”
and would rather see a sail blown to rags
than take it in.
UP AGAINST IT.
THEATRICAL MANAGER: “ You're a
comedian, eh?”
APPLICANT FOR ENGAGEMENT: “ Yes, sir.”
T.M.: “Ever make people laugh?"
APPLICANT: “ Yes, sir.”
T.M.: “ Well, make me laugh.”
“Briner” : The blowing up of the French
ironclad Liberte makes me think of some-
what new and old. There have been a dozen
diving expeditions after a Spanish treasure
snip blown up 300 years ago off Tobermory,
on the western Scotch coast. Burnes, a
canny Scot, took on the job last year, but
first went inquiring to Spain, where he
found the ship had no treasure at all. She
was properly Italian, the Duke of Florence,
sent from Genoa as a contribution to the
Spanish Armada. She staggered round the
top of Scotland with a good deal of drainage,
and put into Tobermory, the stronghold -of
the McLeods. There she got repaired with
an undertaking to pay with treasure. Also,
the captain lent the McLeod 200 Spanish
soldiers for operations against the McDon-
olda When Hio «hir> o-nino- vv:iv tl,„
aids When the ship was going away, the
McLeod sent Dougai Bias aboard toi tile
treasure. He was scotted at, and received
the glassy eye and the metallic laugh. So he
went below and blew the ship up, and the air
was full of death and Dougai. The recent
Fiench disastei is charged by some to the
Socialists, the same as the sinkage last year
of a new German Dreadnought, the Nassau,
in the Elbe. In fact, some folk charge the
Socialists with blowing up Vesuvius bn the
Last Day of Pompeii.
*.* * *
“Eryander”: “The attitude of the Indian
Mohammedans towards the Tripolitan situa-
tion is a serious matter, in view of the fact
that our Indian army consists almost en-
tirelv of True Believers ” Ghoice niece of
bosh! this, from a Sydney dail?. The bulk
of the Indian army is composed of Sikhs,
Gurkhas, Mahrattas, Rajpoots, Dogras,
Jats and Rohillas—all races that would
ask nothing better than an out-and-out scrap
with Islam. But the Ghazi is pretty sure
to put himself prominently into evidence.
The said Ghazi is a conundrum, unless we
try to read him by the light of the Malay
amokker— himself a psychological puzzle.
The main difference between the two lies in
the fact that the Malay who “cuts loose”
appears to be the victim of sudden homicidal
mania, assignable to any cause or/ none,
whereas the Ghazi’s seizure may be fairly
described as an acute attack of the leligious
fanaticism which has theretofore been merely
chronic in him. In both affections the sub-
ject loses all regaid for Ins own life, and is
exterminated as promptly as possible, to the
tune, in the one case, of Amok. Amok.
and. in the other, of “Deen! Deen!” (“The
Faith! The Faith!”).
“Tied Tape, junr.” : After a long course
of literature in the lift, I conclude that the
Sydney Morning Herald is the limit and
the dead finish. Here is the proof. Recently
a sleeper was found lying across the rails
near Charlevilie (Q.), whereby a special
train’s life wasendangered. Now. a little
time before that, a number of immigrants
had landed at Brisbane, en route to Charle-
vilie, and, without any reliable evidence in
support, S.M.H. put up the headings : “At-
tempts to Wreck a Train,” “Intimidating
Immigrants,” and proceeded largely as fol-
lows :
Fifty immigrant navvies were expected to arrive
at the Wallal railway extension works., by special
train .yesterday, and it is significant that the obstruc-
tion was placed on the line a few miles on the
Charlevilie side of Westgate siding, where the navvies
would leave the train. However, it is fortunate the
navvies did not arrive as expected, their arrival from
some cause being delayed. It is rumored there
will be trouble when the navvies ARRIVE at Wallal.
Next day a small paragraph was printed to
say that
The attempted derailment was the work of a
lunatic, who has been arrested and sent to Too-
woomba for medical observation.
I haven’t seen any apology yet to the people
—presumably unionists —who were hinted at
as would-be murderers; also I don’t expect
to, knowing the Herald as I do.
A DEFINITION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It would appear from a discussion which took
place incidentally, at to-day’s session of the Presby-
terian Church General Assembly, that there is a defi-
nite rule or definition by which that ecclesiastical
body defines what constitutes a congregation. A
speaker was asked how many persons attended the
services at a mission on the North-West Coast, to
which he replied, amid general laughter, “the wives
of a few men.” The Clerk of the Assembly: “That
is not a proper congregation.” The Speaker: “That
is the best I can do.” — Tasmanian news item.
This is the daily question—this is the riddle set:
•‘What is a congregation?” No one has answered
yet!
What is a congregation? Is it a well-dressed crowd
Gabbling prayers in a whisper, or singing hymns out
loud ?
Is it a row of bonnets loaded with feathers and
frills —
With, haply, a bald head shining—and worrying over
bills ?
Is it a mournful “mission,” preaching a God of
Gloom —
Begging the Sinner to join them —and, so, dodge
Awful Doom ?
Is it a mob of fanatics, crowded in line on line,
Waiting to see a Wonder —hoping to get a Sign?
Is it a darkened chamber, packed with credulous
fools,
Seeking a Fourth Dimension —that goal of the
“psychic” schools?
If I were asked to define it, this is what / should
state:
“A congregation is—Persons Who Drop a Bob in the
Plate!
Still is the daily question—still is the riddle set—
“ What is a congregation?” . . . No one has an-
swered yet!
K.S.W.
CLARENCE O’HAGAN.
CLASS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In Heaven all are equal; but I fancy that in Hell
all of our social inequalities and, class-divisions are
rigorously maintained. —Melbourne sermon.
Bill Smith, the simple butcher, died;
And down the grim and trackless way
His soul went seeking far and wide
On ether waves where no stars play,
The house of sorrow or of grace
To be his long abiding place.
At length, by some instinct led,
He came where wondrous, four-fold gates
Of twisted iron, glowing red,
Burned in abysmal night. The Fates
Had fixed his home. He knew it well —
This was the awful gate of Hell.
Smith bowed submissively, and strove
To pass the fiery door. An imp
Rose up with curses deep, and drove
The butcher forth, abashed and limp,
To seek afar, a small, dark door
With “Tradesmen’s Entrance” written o’er.
VICTORIA.
SILAS SNELL.


fg
tfll
For all
domestic uses.
Half the toil of
household work is
done away with
when * Sunlight
Soap enters
Jthe home.
No - ®J. GUARANTEED UNDER THE
PURE FOOD ACT, 1908,*'
BT LEVER BROTHERS LIMITED,
BTONCV. N.S.W.-RO. 67.
Himyadi
Janos 1
The best Natural Aperient Water
for sluggish bowels. Brings relief
in the natural easy way. Speedy,
sure and gentle. Try a bottle
—and drink half a tumbler
lon arising, before breakfast, for j
CONSTIPATION
Wild’s Hairdressing Rooms, 30 Upstairs,
Sydney Arcade, George and King Streets, Sydney, is
the proper place to go if you want the best of atten-
tion. Electric head and face massage done in the
latest American style. Hours of. business: 8.30 to
6.30 ; Saturday close at 1 o’clock,*"
sfg
FOR SUMMER
Our Blue Underwear.
For many years we have made this a leading line with
us, and it has given unvarying satisfaction.
We require manufacturers who supply us to conform to a
standard of our own —one our experience endorses —and find
this far more satisfactory than selling Trade marked lines.
This Blue Underwear is wool, and of light texture—just the
right weight for the summer. It is thoroughly shrunken —our
standing offer to replace any garment that shrinks is never
availed of. The seams are fashioned to prevent friction With
the skin, and the sleeve and leg ends ribbed, to prevent them
unravelling !
In ordering by Post, please state your waist and chest measure-
ments, and add 6d. per garment for Postage.
51 9
THE GARMENT.
Undershirt or Pants.
Write for our Hand Book of Men’s Wear—just published.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
“ Men’s Outfitters,”
309=311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Judge Gordon ran against a Hard Case in
the S. Aus. Criminal Court last week. He
was an ordinary-looking boy, charged with
an ordinary-looking larceny ; but, after read-
ing through his police record, the Judge (who
is not in the least addicted to nagging at
prisoners) called him a sex-pervert and a
“reeking moral leper.” Being two months
under IS, he couldn’t, by S.A. law. be sent
to gaol, and to send him to the Reformatory
would be to corrupt that institution, /which
is meant “to discipline boys who are high-
spirited, but not bad.” Eventually, it was
arranged to isolate him Tor the two months;
and meantime Gordon is suggesting that the
No-gaol-under-I8 law'is a little too rigid, and
might be ihiodified to meet special, cases such
as those of-“reeking moral lepers.”
It would seem that, after all, the first
count was incomplete, and the teetotalers
rejoiced too soon, and cried aloud prema-
turely in the market place and the tea em-
porium. Maine (U.S.A.), it is now re-
ported, has decided to go back to liquor—
Maine, which has been “dry” for 60 years,
which led the way in Prohibition, and in
honor of which the great and wonderful
Dry Statute was named the “Maine Law.”
So there will now be eloquent explanations
from the apostles of drought, who will pro-
ceed to show: (1) that the result doesn’t
represent the real feeling of the people; (2)
that it will presently be reversed ; (3) that
it never happened. The best men are often
the worst losers.
Melbourne City Court beaks are strug-
gling with the adjourned case of an un-
speakable Chow immigrant, who claims to
have been tyorn in Australia of an English
mother, and to have returned when he was
eight yeais old to his Chow fatherland. He
backs up his story with a ,birth certifi-
cate, obtained through a Hongkong mer-
chant, but the Crown challenges his identity
with the tacit allegation that he either got
the certif. irom the real original half-breed,
or knew of him as being dead, and obtained
the in liis place. The claimant
failed in his “prohibited immigrant” exam.,
and gave no evidence of having lived
amidst the Australian language un to the
age of eight. So he was handed over
to Professor Berry and Dr. Robert-
son, of the Anthropological Society,
who tested liis skin and his hair, and took
measurements of him, and scrutinised some
marks on his arm for evidence of alleged
vaccination. The men of science agree in
thinking Ah Loy a Chow at all points, fore,
aft and ’midships. Their evidence centres
human interest in the question of his mater-
nal parentage. If Ah Loy did have an Eng-
lish dam—which he probably didn’t —the
fact that his heathen poppa gave him all
his physical characteristics may admit of
explanation by a veterinary surgeon and a
dog fancier sitting in Royal Commission.
A FATAL STAGE.
“Hold’s yer mother ter-day?”
"'The docter says she’s convalescent.”
“Poor dear! My old man ua fist gettin' rid
of the Javer whin he got convaiesence, an’
it took ’im off.”
There’s many a true word spoken in advts.
The Melbourne Argus of October 4 printed
this: —
JUNIOR CLERK, with Knowledge of Shorthand
and Typewriting. Food Prospects for Capable
Youth.
“Food prospects” just about expresses what
is ahead of the junior clerk.
“Philoyid” : The Brisbane Synagogue has
accep ted a convert to Judaism, and the
J , . , , - nnti „„ r ri
event is rare enough to call toi notice, lhe
Jewish Church sternly discourages verting,
an( i looks with a cynic eye on the practice as
regarc [ s other faiths. Rabbi Cohen, of the
Synagogue, approves the Pope’s Ne
® i
Temere decree, and so do most of the otliei
Jewish pastors. The Jew, like the poet, is
porn, not made. And, moreover, he cannot
p e ma j[ e by any process whatever. Further,
p e canno t be un-made. The Disraelis, Men-
delssohn-Bartholdys and the rest might turn
Christians, but could not denude themselves
0 f a particle of their Jewry. They only, as
r we re, put on an overcoat or a second hat.
Nay, Chr.st remains a Jew to the end, like
Paul.
One of the wonders of
Sydney is Cook’s River
Road, a long and crowded
and dreadfully mean,
brown highway or crooked
alley about 40ft. wide. It
runs through some of the
poorest of the 41 remark-
able municipalities of Syd-
ney, and these can neither
pay for widening and repair,
nor agree about how the job
should be dqne. The great
concentration of popula-
tion in Sydney has, how-
ever, made reconstruction
essential, and the same
concentration has run up
(he price of the adjacent
hovels so as to make the
job expensive. Minister
Griffith has his eye on
the problem, and estimates the price at
£200,000. A hostile pessimist, Varney
Parkes, suggests £700,000, but Varney in-
herited neither his father’s hair nor his reck-
less cheerfulness.
A queer litle act of himperialistic foolish-
ness was perpetrated at Rutherglen (Vic.)
last week. Eighteen months ago, the local
State-school committee forwarded a flag to
Rutherglen (Scotland), and, after a year
and a-half’s consideration of this remarkable
token of brotherly feeling, the public school
magnates in Rutherglen (Scotland) for-
warded a flag in return. The bunting from
the Auld Country was solemnly unfurled at
Rutherglen (Vic.), “ipL the presence of 1000
adults and children,”4 and Bowser, M.L.A.,
and other adults exhorted the kiddies to
cheer the flag and ,j.ove Britain, and clothe
their young minds in imported sentiments
for the blessed sake. Amen !
“Harrison O.” : A study of the Melbourne
Directory discloses appalling information.
There ars in and about the city no fewer
than 23 George-streets; 57 streets, alleys,
lanes and parades named after the late Mrs.
Victoria, and 30 after her husband; a score
bear the name of Alfred. because a prince
was so christened, while the widow of Ed-
ward VII. has saved certain municipal in-
tellects from breaking doyn under the strain
of selecting an original and appropriate name
for 13 thoroughfares. Nobody, it would
seem, thought it worth while to name a
blind alley after Grimes, the Surveyor-Gen-
eral, or Lieutenant Robbins, commander of
the Cumberland, who were the first two
known British subjects to make . footprints
on the earth which is now occupied by the
Yarra-side village. Also, nobody bothered
to give the late Batman the. chance to get
his cognomen on the map, until the Common-
wealth named one of the Federal elector-
ates after him.
“Brass Button”: Some people appear to
have hazy notions as to why seamen have
been striking lately. They should read an
item or two from the subjects discussed at a
Seamen’s Union meeting. There was the
recent case of the chief officer of a boat in
Cape Town harbor. lie struck a casualty
while in the judicial murder of his duty, and
lost a leg. He was shipped into hospital,
and tied up there for six months. At the
end of that spell he was stranded in a
foreign port without shipmate, friend, ship
or money. The president of the Union got
under way, and tried to shake up the owners
to discover a few dollars for their total-
wreck servant. The shipping co. hung in the
wind for a long time, during which the luck-
less one was presumably feeding on fine fresh
air, and at last it generously sent forward the
huge sum of £l5 to buy a wooden leg and
get a move on. Why a shipping firm is not
liable for compensation to its Workmen like
any landlubber co. is a mystery to anyone
but a seaman. He is too used to being-
worked like a galley-slave when he’s well,
and slung out when he’s sick to wonder at
anything. And when you come to think that
the statute lets a shipwrecked crew have
their pay stopped the minute their ship goes
under, and takes no notice of men who are
left high and dry on the shores of Timbuctoo
—it doesn’t even compel the owner to replace
the clothes that went down with the rotten
ship—you can’t wonder that the sailor be-
lieves firmly that the laws were made by the
Devil and the' ship-owners.
Douglas Mawson’s aeroplane trip to the
South Pole is off, and if the party ever gets
there it will have to go per boot or bear
or otherwise. Lieut. Watkins, who was in
charge of the machine, bumped against a
very unfriendly breeze while making a trial
trip in Adelaide, and the whole affair toppled
over and came back to earth wrong way up.
The woodwork was broken, and the wooden
propeller smashed to pieces; and, to make
things more hopeless, a crowd of “Adelaide-
for-culture” vandals rushed the ruins, un-
screwed or broke off everything removable,
and took away every fragment of the pro-
peller, thus putting out of the question re-
pairs which otherwise could have been
affected. As Mawson was building a lot of
hope on the machine, the accident has upset
his plans, and unless another vehicle can be
obtained the Polar part of the programme is
scratched.
A regiment of Melbourne parsons waited
on Willie Watt, the other day, and tried to
oersuade him to pay time and a half for all
Sunday work on the railways. The deputa-
tion tearfully admitted that a certain number
of Sunday trains were necessary—church
trains, for instance—but pointed out that it
was particularly iniquitous for the depart-
ment to make profits out of Sabbath-break-
ing. The holy men evidently hadn’t con-
sidered the possibility of higher pay inducing
the workmen to desire to break the Sabbath
more desperately than ever. In fact, as in-
creased wages womd give the hands more of
the profits, the deputation’s earnest desire
would appear to be to save the department’s
soul at the expense of the souls of several
hundred employees. And since it is generally
recognised that the department hasn’t got a
soul, the churchmen’s whole attitude seems
to be sadly lacking in righteousness.
Premier John Weary, of Victoria, went to
iflasgow, it seems, to catch an echo of what
is really a Cockney-born denunciation of
the modern tea-room evil. He talked with
a meenister of the Kirk, who told him that
“the deterioration of the Scottish race (in
the toons) is due to a change of diet. For-
merly oatmeal and milk were the chief diet,
but now the people take bread, butter and
tea.” The result is that “it is' pitiable to
see the undersized weeds of people in Scot-
land.” Long before the consumption of por-
ridge had begun to appreciably diminish in
Scotland, the deterioration of town physique
in the “middle classes” was attributed to the
fact that the offspring of a mutton-chop-and-
beer generation were feeding their early
manhood with tea and cake. The tea-shop
was the curse of England ere it became the
curse of Scotland. The derrink that isn’t
beer, wine or whusky, and which works its
wicked way in conspiracy with the godly
bun. is reducing the chest measurement of
English-speaking people in more countries
than Britain. Also, it is doing its deadly
work among the French. But John Weary,
as a rabid teetotaler, refrains from any
direct allusion to the light luncheon habit,
and merely quotes the Scawtch parson s
lament for the days of oatmeal and milk.
Moreover, he overlooks the fact that the new
woman clerk and typist, and their cousin the
waitress, have helped largely to lure man-
kind from the old eating house to the modern
bun-shop. # ,
“A Registered Dairyman” lately assured
the Svdney Telegraph that really there is
no “child slavery”—it’s only ring-a-ring o
roses: —
Now, my little daughter of five runs over to the
bails, and just for pastime milks three or four or
five cows, and enjoys the fun ; while her big brother
of seven milks from seven to 10 cows with perfect
ease.
AD VICE.
T HE ACTOR: “I propose introducing the great
Shakspearian play of ‘ Hamlet' to your town.
How would it go , think you?"
BLOODTHIRSTY R ESIDENT: “Any murders?”
THE A CTOR: "Murder is a special feature.”
B.R.: “Well, if yer calls it ‘The Murder of
’Amlet ’ yer can reckon on a full ’ousel’
Pastime ! Fun !
Poor little kid
of five and her
“big brother of
seven.” Also,
the cow-be-
witched father,
who really
seemed to think
he had finally
cleared his god-
dess from all
aspersions, had
further to tell
t r iu m p hantly
how “when I
was six I usu-
ally milked
eight or nine
cows in the
morning before
starting for
school, which
meant a four-
mile ride.” And
there isn’t any
reason to doubt
that there he wrote the dreadful, sorrowful
truth. In fact, he writes like a person who
might have milked 20 cotvs and missed the
school altogether.
ROŚE &
OYOTER
[For The Bulletin.]
One lover built on
roses red
To win his dar-
ling s heart.
He never nearly
turned her head;
They drijted far
apart.
Another forth to
suppers gay
7 'ook Flo in dainty
frocks.
He reigned a twelve-
month and a day
Who built on
Sydney rocks !
VICTORIA. S.S.


"l*fe
The committee of the Melbourne hos-
pital gratefully accepts the suggestion
contained in the letter to the Argus by
Mr. W. Britton Harvey, that a “ Weekly
Egg Day ” be arranged for the institution.
is nol^iryo
m ifrs E-SS.^i 3 , *
Tbr vetssT 6
sen/ine Cons ]#"!>*"?!> of W to 1f >*
Joor<, of a, .
&° lA b °o • I ca^r"si 'ky
ll>m, 1 WonTpo Witfr you
me. ajone witi? my Me^onfi^
The discovery, it is considered, will
prove of great value to orchardists, who
are looking forward anxiously to clearing
their trees from the borer troubles.
During the past week large numbers ot
the wasps have been released, including
1000 at Mt. Cole, in the Ararat district.
yV e VJie/<2
V diyovev.oo w^sp'
i^ 1 of * borer Ko.
Wiw -rfl'i s u44e.ry 'fcry vX~ jo reference.
fo Unionists ? Ibc c [*y> tlV>^ ,vv ftfS
o c*te<sl (jrefer'citce I*7 ope *)osT~
deface n't"•
lr,
S iee h%
HR. MURRAY'S IMPRESSIONS.
“ENGLAND IS SLUMBERINa.”
, You ma y take it from me, England Is
slumbering.
Speaking of infant saving, Dr. Barrett
said that between October and March
next 700 or 800 babies in Victoria, prin-
cipally in Melbourne, would be swept off
by Infantile diarrhoea. This was to be
the result of the Insanitary conditions
under -which cows’ milk would be de-
livered in the city.
John Wevy’ A cv>t~
winK of- Sleeb in
-ybir John Sulls &y*fu\ snonrjo Fbr ~H?e
|ove of* 'ttea l ye o »>e To 1?-ed f "
Ytc you bolitTc»v»s tjaye.
ro*<te' / Uw<J to deaj wM -se.
wretched oirl who tier
child . lsnT club
tor b^r
wHoje Wilful irt^gli^once
is responsible tor "$l5 Awful
f "
BY HOBSON’S BAY.


Squatter Sheep Branding Oil
SCOURS OUT OF THE WOOL.
Does not contain Pitch, Tar or other injurious ingredients.
LEWIS & WHITTY, Melbourne and Sydney. H
McKENZIE’S EXCELSIOR BAKING POWDER.
DIAMONDS
Reduced
Enormously.
WHY?
We took on sometime a pro a Sole Agency calling for an
immense output, and to live up to it we are sellimr
Diamonds at merely a broker’s commission on the
actual landed cost.
Choice Diamonds and
Pale Pink Corals, £7/7/-.
Diamonds and Whole
Pearls, £lO/10/-
Diamonds and
Peridots,
£l2/12/-
They are shown loose, and set in rings, pendants and jewellery generally, and we feel sure that our new
departure will pay us, owing to the advertisement and the increase of customers.
Plain Figures
Cash.
FAIRFAX 8 ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 8 25 Hunter Street.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
DANS FIRST VISIT TO
THE SEA.
YOUNG DAN ( watching the tide
going out) : “ My oath, dad.
They can do with some rain
down here. Why, I can
see the blessed dam dryin'
up."
“Dun Brown”: I am told that when the
transcontinental line is built, a great and special
attempt is to be made to Christianise our colored
brother in the Northern Territory. It is surely time
that the Government interfered with these missions -
or at least controlled them—so as to give Binghi as
little misery as possible during his last days. In the
natural order of things, Binghi is going off, and, when
he gets hold of the white man’s clothes, food, drinks
and patent pills, he goes faster than need be. Finally,
when he gets some of the diseases of civilisation, and
his enfeebled constitution is struck by news of the
white man’s hell, Binghi drops his bundle and goes
altogether. Some years ago a religious station was
founded at Rapid Creek, and, later on, another arose
at the Daly River, where an attempt was made to
combine industry with Christianity. It was not
long, however, before the expensive plant and build-
ings were left to the white ant and the gohanna. A
newer scheme, I hear, has been, or is to be, launched
at Melville Island. At present the niggers there are
only civilised so far as association with a few buffalo
shooters is concerned. But they are probably more
contented than they will be when the religious
teachers begin to make them work on the planta-
tions, and tell them about perdition.
* * * *
“Gip,” of Monaro, gathers that the metro-
politan fashions did not please Mrs. Keogh: -
“How did you like Sydney?” I heard someone ask
in condescending tones. “It’s all right. Groceries
is terrible cheap ; but I wus glad ter get me Julia
’ome. The women down there’s goin’ about real
ondecent.” (Superior person expresses polite inter-
est. Julia, matured and mottled, sits dully by, wear-
ing the sulky expression of a working bullock.) “Yes;
they’re showin’ all they can now long, scraggy
arms, an’ legs an’ necks like turkey gobblers. I ses
to Julia when we got there: ‘Now, don’t be spendin
yer rabbit-money on nothin’ o’ that kind. But one
day I wus out at me niece Alice’s place, and oo
should I meet when I was cornin’ ’ome but Julia.
And, oh Lor’, she was a sight! Dancin’ shoes an
stockin’s wot you could see ’er legs through; a bit uv
a skirt about arf the size uv ’er father’s pants, an
just coverin’ ’er shape; ’er neck all showin’, blue
earrin’s, an’ a big ’at on ’er ’ead. She wus oldm
out a sort er little portmanter sif she wus onerin it
ter people. I never seen no daughter er mine look
like ’er afore. ‘ ’Ere, me girl,’ I ses, get ome
an’ under cover,’ I ses. ‘And yer father’ll ’ear about
this, I promise yer! Outer them things quick an
lively, an’ inter yer green meriner,’ I ses. ‘Gawd
knows where y’ll end!’ Wiv that I leads ’er ’ome by
the portmanter, and gets ’er noo elo’es off with ther
potato-scraper. And next mornin’ I pays me bill and
catches the early train, ■ before all the town gits to
’ear of ther girl’s disgrace.”
* * * *
“Jimmie Pannikin”: “Locust” can rest
assured that the Australboy has changed since
he (“Locust”) and I were at school. In those
days the male infant-in-the-eye-of-the-law who did
not own a catapult and make war on the little fea-
thered natives was looked upon as a “Sissy-boy” ;
“Jimmie Crow”: If “Gip” (B. 3/8/T1)
wants to cause sudden death to those foxes, let her
use lard with a grain or two of strychnine in it.
Lay the lard on a piece of paper sprinkled with oil
of aniseed, so that all human smell left after hand-
ling the bait will be removed. Also, aniseed will
attract any animal’s attention. This is the only way
that dingoes can be poisoned in some districts, and it
will also murder eagles, hawks and crows, and even
pawnbrokers.
* * * *
When the Bowen (Q.) district was first
settled, 50 years ago, sheep-rearing was tried, but
spear-grass and dingoes killed the business, and
cattle-breeding soon took its place. Closer settle-
ment, however, has wiped out the spear-grass and
the dingoes, and it is proposed to give the jumbuek
another run for his money.
but- during the past few years of my wanderings
West-o’-Sunset and nearer-in I have seen only one of
those elastic-sided guns, and the average youngster
has grown to love the birds too well to kill them
for “sport.” There is no reason why Australia
should not have as highly-developed a civic senti-
ment as Germany. I am a firm believer, after many
years’ experiment and experience, in the great cap-
acity of the Australian boy or girl, for sound, sen-
sible self-government. For instance, at the Edwards-
town Public School, via South Gundagai (N.S.W.),
is a glorious grape-vine, running along the front of
the building. The present teacher planted it 24
years ago. The children, a happy-faced lot, never
interfere with the grapes till they are quite ripe.
When the teacher says the fruit is fit, the children
share and share alike. And Gundi’s kids are not
peculiar. Give them the chance elsewhere, and the
“civic sentiment” will rise up and astonish you.
AT YASSBERRA.
BUNG (putting down whisky bottle):
“Water?”
TRAVELLER (observing immature tad-
poles in the water): “ Er, no
thanks, I'm a vegetarian."
“Tiaki” : The octopi devoured by the Nea-
politans (B. 14/9/’ll) must have been decrepid
insects when the boys allowed them to attach their
feelers to their arms while they (the boys) beguiled
them into coming ashore. I saw a Maori who got
one tentacle of an octupus glued to his arm one
day. It raised a row of lumps like inverted thim-
bles, from which the blood oozed like the exuda-
tions from a half-cooked steak, nor did it quit the
mortgage until some time after the feeler was cut
off. I guess the bloke who tried to yank that
octopus ashore for lunch would get sucked in. Was
diving for crayfish, once, in about 10 or 12 feet of
water, when I noticed a long, brown, sinuous thing
come wriggling towards me. How did I ascend to-
wards the blessed sunshine. Henare’s blistered arm
was before my eyes, and his shriek of horror was
ringing through my brain. I resolved, if spared,
to devote the rest of my life to miss:on work, and
let the missioned do the cray-diving. It was
only an extra swirl of the water which had sent a
loose strand of seaweed writhing over towards me,
but I didn’t go after any more drunkard’s suppers
that day.
* * * *
“Phizz”: “Phoenix” (B. 10/8/T1) says
cattle will eat the leaves of the Queensland stinging
tree. Probably. After seeing them tuck into the
“sensitive plant” I believe them capable of eating
anything. This sensitive plant is a rank weed,
which grows profusely in Fiji. Its runners quickly
spread along the ground, and from them grow stems
culminating in narrow leaves. These leaves are
protected at close intervals by short, sharp thorns,
similar to rose thorns, and equally aggressive. Upon
the slightest contact, the leaves close up and
droop for quite a time, hence the name. For several
years, a man I know kept a double-barrelled cow in
a paddock in which this weed had overgrown the
place to a depth of a foot, and choked all the other
grass. Nevertheless, when the local butcher arose one
day and slew one barrel of the cow, it turned the
scale, when dressed, at 8121 b. Which is “going
some” for a cow. That is not a solitary instance.
All the same, horses wouldn’t look at the sensitive
tucker if you paid them cash.
“Gulgong” : It is a grim coincidence that
the same issue of the S. M. Herald that contained
Beeby’s announcement of the land policy of the Ma
State Government likewise reported that the good-
will of a leased farm in the Mudgee district had been
sold for £6OO. As there were only 50 acres in the
farm, this panned out at £l2 per acre. And the
lease had only six and a-half years to run. It is
proudly claimed as a local record, and every Aus-
tralian patriot will fervently hope it may remain
one! When a farmer —the bloke that does the hard
g ra ft —has to pay £l2 per acre as goodwill, in ad-
dition to his rent, to secure a piece of soil, it is fair
evidence of the sort of land monopoly that is chok-
ing this country. Likewise it is a blistering reply
to the Tory assertion that leasehold will not attract
farmers. If private landowners can secure such
shocking competition for the right to work their
land, the State should be on a good wicket, con-
sidering the difference in conditions.
“Boronia” : i The Australian bush breeds
absent-minded, men. The loneliness of existence
Outback must be held accountable. It is often very
painful to watch an ancient forest-dweller trying to
remember where he last put something. Once knew
a kangaroo-hunter, who left his camp with the in-
tention of doing a bit of shooting. It wasn’t until
lie had travelled about a mile that he remembered
he had left his rifle at home, so he laid the gun
down and went back for it. On another occasion,
Bill Stone, a lonely far-out cocky, wandered into a
shop, and had given an order for a few tons of fer-
tiliser and fencing-wire before he discovered that he
was in a drug store.
“Boronia” : The average backblocks toiler
takes his pleasures sadly. Was conversing recently
with a bushwhacker who had just returned from a
week’s spell in Perth (W.A.). I asked what sort of a
time he had had. He answered: “Not too bad. Th'
first day I ’ad er look over th’ asylum vv’ere me
brother-in-law’s sister is campin’. By cripes, she is
crook in ’er ’ead. She reckons she’s some piece wots
been shut up against ’er wish, an’ if yeh go near ’er
she starts t’ curse an’ scream, an’ reckons if yell
don’t ” I stopped him here, knowing that if I
didn’t he would occupy an hour or more in describ-
ing the disorganised mental state of his relative.
Questioned regarding the appearance of the botanical
gardens, he made reply: “Oh, them! Blode if 1
didn’t fergit all erbout lookin’ at ’em; but I spent
er kupple iv days lookin’ through ther cemet ries.
My oath! they wuz all right. Ain’t there some
bonzer carvins’ on them toombstones! No, I fergot
all erbout th’ hart gall’ry; but I went t’ th’ wax-
works three days runnin’. There wuz some bonzer
pitchers iv murders there. Yeh could sde th’ blood
quite plain all over one bloke’s ’ead, an’, by cripes,
yeh orter see th’ pitcher w’ere ” Here I took
him into a bar and gagged his grisly rememberings
with alcohol.
*
RUM FOR THE HAIR.
[FOR THE BULLEITN.]
The long, lean, lank, wide-whiskered one,
Well-tanned by wind and scorching sun,
Strode in and planked his silver down
And swung his hat off. Bald and brown
His cranium rose above his face,
A desolate and wind-swept place,
Whereon no trace of stubble grew.
For rum he called, as some men do,
And, as the draught he did advance
Towards his well-worn countenance,
Mirth-wrinkles wreathed his hide;
“Rum for the hair!” he sighed.
He gazed into his glass, and then
Slowly he loaded it again,
And muttered, as he lapped it up,
“Come on, I’ll have another sup;
I never touch this tack, y’ know —■
I only want me hair to grow,”
And let the good, red liquor slip
Across his eager, bearded lip.
The pubster watched him, doubtful, dumb,
As carefully he poured the rum
Into' his open head. ..
“It’s for me hair,” he said.
The curious few who sat around,
Resting their feet upon the ground,
And sipping stuff to kill their cares,
Regarded him with patient stares;
And he whose faith to rum was pinned,
Waving his fourth one, winked, and grinned
“Whenever hair is turnin’ grey,
Or when it’s failin’ out, they say
It wants a stimulant,” he said,
And passed his hand across his head,
And rubbed it thoughtfully.
“Rum makes it grow,” said he.
Then up spake one whose speech was thick,
Whose face was tinted like a brick,
Whose eye rolled wildly as he spoke—
A simple, silly sort of bloke,
Who pointed at the hairless pate,
And said: “ ’Old on ! Lor’ blimey, mate,
Rum for the hair ain’t used ivshide!”
The bald one very gravely eyed
The simple soul. “I oughter know!”
He said. “For years I’ve tried to grow
A bit of hair, this way...
I may have luck, to-day!”
VICTORIA.
FRANK HENTY.
HIS LESSON.
[FOR THE BULLEITN.]
The minister accosted gloomily
City broker Brown —
A wicked, worldly man, on whom he
Oft had cause to frown —
And shook him fatly by the hand,
With warmth he well could understand.
“Oh, thank you! thank you!” with effusion
Said the pulpiteer;
“You gave a generous contribution
To our church, I hear.
Our grateful elders are elate;
You put a sovereign in the plate!”
“I don’t deserve,” replied the broker,
“Thanks for what I did.
I, dreaming, we were playing poker,
Anted-up that quid !
For me it’s been a lesson plain,
I’ll never sleep in church again.”
VICTORIA.
E.D.


sdf
Carters
WITTLE
■ IVER
[ PILLS.
Your Liver
Is Clogged Up
That’s Why You’re Tired-Out of
Sorts—Have No Appetite.
CARTER’S LITTLE LIVER PILLS
will put you rit'ht in a few days.
They do their duty. Cure Consti-
pation, Biliousness, Indigestion, and
Sick Headache.
Small Pill, Small Dose, Small Price.
GENUINE must bear Signature
gsdf
A FINE
PICTURE, showing Cap-
tain Cook’s Statue and the Aus-
tralian P lag, with Calendar from
July to June, will be sent free
of cost on receipt of your name
and address.
Please Write to
THE INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LTD.,
“The 1.0. A.,"
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth,
Hobart, Rockhampton, Townsville.
51-
JUST TO ADVERTISE I !
A Sixpenny Bottle of CALDWELL’S INK
and a Half-Guinea U-carat Iridium
Tipped Twin-Feed Fountain Pen for C/
If you can’t buy it iocall v, semi Postal
Note direct i,u
CALDWELL’S INKS PTY. LTD.,
Yarra Bank Road, Melbourne.
PLASMON COCOA
“ A Delicious Beverage of much greater
nutritive value than ordinary Cocoa."
—British Medical Journal •
PLASMON IS USED BY THE ROYAL FAMILY.
Australian Depot: 5 & 7 Barrack St., Sydney.
The Royal Hotel,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Most centrally situated Hotel in Sydney.
Best place to lunch and dine in town.
J. W. COCKBAINE, Proprietor.
“Eddyson”: Carne was a young medical
gentleman. He built himself a nice little crimson
Queen Anne villa at Woollybutt, and hung his brass
plate on the outer wall. An epidemic of infantitis
followed. There was a baby in every home. Dr.
Carne was doing so well that he bought a statue,
and stood it in the centre of his small lawn. It was
a cement replica of a coy nymph, wearing a roguish
expression and a protecting palm branch. Carne
thought it beautiful and perfectly harmless. Great
was his surprise when he found that Woollybutt (a
thoroughly Wesleyan community) was up in arms
against the undraped abomination. Elders of the
Little Bethel went right round Cuthbert’s orchard
to avoid the gleaming white sin, and good Cousin
Jinny mothers beat their children for peering
through Game’s pickets., Later, a deputation from
the Bethel waited upon Dr. Carne, and besought
him to remove from the light of day and the pale
glimpses of the moon that whitewashed scarlet
woman of Babylon. Carne refused with violent and
scornful objurgations, and for a fortnight after that
was kept busy tearing off his art object fragmentary
garments, surreptitiously hung on the nymph by the
Wowsers of Woollybutt. Came a morning when
Woolybutt missed the naked iniquity. Dr. Carne’s
nymph had been stolen in the night. An angry
search revealed no clue. Carne was furious. He
called in a detective, and, after several days’ silent
seeking, Sherlock Jones discovered that Elder Veal’s
garden path had been freshly gravelled. Searching
more closely he found on the path a cement nose,
portion of an ear, two fingers, and other recognisable
remains of the missing nymph. Confronted with
this evidence, Brother Veal proudly admitted his
guilt. He told the Court he had stolen the statue
because it was an abomination in the sight of the
Lord ; he had broken it because it was a snare and
a temptation and an instrument of Satan. “And
why did you use it to gravel your path?” asked the
P.M. Because it ’twould be shame to waste it.
Wastefulness be a grievous sin,” said the pious elder.
Dear Bulletin, — Having no sympathy
with those cow-cockies who sweat their children, I
would like to describe how a dairy farm can be
run on pleasant lines by a careful man. I’ll take
the Spring-time, when things are willing. At 4.45
a.m off goes the alarm, and Basil, my second boy,
aged 16, gets up quick and lively and goes after the
cows. The missus turns out at 5 and lights the
fire; Mildred (14) helps her get breakfast, while
Muriel (12) dresses the small fry—there’s three of
them, ranging from eight down to three years.
Hector (10) feeds the pigs, and then we all sit down
to breakfast. I’m always up for breakfast, to see
that they get away to the yard, without any trouble.
While the missus and the nippers are milking, I fix
the separator and get the horses in, and, after milk-
ing is over, Basil separates, and Muriel feeds the
calves. As soon as the cream is ready, and the
horse yoked up, I get away to the factory. It is
generally dinner-time when I get home. When the
youngsters have washed the separator, cleaned out
the dairy, and helped the mother a bit in the house,
they get ready for school. They have only three
miles to walk, and I’m rather proud of the fact
that they’re always there by 11 o’clock. Basil has
left school. I never had much schooling myself;
don’t hold with it; kids learn enough these days
without school. By the time the nippers are back
from school, I have the cows in, and they (the
nippers) and the mother get to the milking. They’ve
only 42 to do among four of them, and sometimes, if
HIS FAILING.
JULIA: “ Wasn't theirs a runaway match?"
MAUD: “ Well, yes. He tried to, but he couldn't
run fast enough. She caught him.".
1 m at home, I bail up for them, or I might even
milk a few. We generally have family tea about 7,
and by the time the kids have done their home les-
sons, and I’ve had a look at the paper, it’s getting
on for bed time. Taking it all through, dairying
isn’t a bad game, though, like everything else, it
has its drawbacks. —Yours cheerfully, Jobber.
In one day’s newspaper. G N ,of
Euroa (\ic.), aged IS years, accidentally shot him-
self in the groin with a pea-rifle, and died. J
D , aged 16, was in the line of fire of a friend’s
pea-rifle at Diamond Creek, and the bullet went
through his brain. His case was hopeless some days
ago, so he is probably dead. A M , owner
of a station in N.S.W., was killed by a pea-rifle dis-
charging into his forehead as he opened a gate. Being
killed, he is naturally dead. And this is only Sep-
tember. What will the pea-rifle do when the shoot-
ing season really begins?
HIS DOUBLE.
OLD LADY: "How dare you
take up all the footpath!
Let me pass!"
BLOGGS: "Shorry—Can't you
pass BETWEEN, me!—hic."
“Billy T.” : I had seen her home, and was
returning. The hour was late, and my way was
along Dandenong-road. Drawing near the big gates
of St. Kikla cemetery, my ear was assailed by a
minor disturbance, and presently I came upon two
belated citizens clamoring at the iron bars. At
least, one clamored while the other brandished a line
of pork sausages and sang “Rule Britannia.” The
knocker had a lamb cutlet in his button-hole, and a
chaplet of lettuce leaves and lobster salad decorating
the rim of his boxer. “Why does he want to get
in?” I asked the sausage-and-Rule-Britannia man.
“Becaush he wantsh to go ’ome.” “Home? Does
he live here?” “Of coursh he does. Can’t yeh shee
he does? He’s a ghost. I’m sheein’ him ’ome.
Hi, there, open, open! ” The ghost, who wore a
light grey suit and a white linen hat, leaned with
his back to the gate and moaned. The spectre’s
guardian rattled the portal, and demanded vocifer-
ously was there nobody at home. “But couldn’t a
ghost go home alone?” I asked. It seemed this one
couldn’t. “Foolsh forgot hish grave. I foun’ him
wan’erin’ round, homeless ’n’ alone. He’s Billy
Morley’s ghost. Knew Billy Morley well. Anny-
borry kin see he’s Billy Morley’s ghost. Ho, within
there. Comenopen gate!” Billy Morley’s ghost
wrapped the sausages three times round his neck,
and sat down. When I left, the good Samaritan
was giving the spook of the late Morley a leg-up
over the cemetery fence.
“Ellae”: Re “The Undertaker's” (B.
14/9/ 11) little growl about the general avoidance
of the word “dead.” I would point out that there is
a word that beats it by about blankteen lengths in
the Never-Mention-It Handicap. Who ever hears, in
ordinary conversation, of a man being “drunk”?
When Jones comes zig-zagging gracefully down the
street, singing love songs to a lobster, you might ask
a hundred people of every age, sex, size, rank or
color “What’s the matter with Jones?” without once
getting a plain “He’s drunk.” The staid and digni-
fied citizen will say he is “intoxicated” or “inebri-
ated,” the average boy that he is “shickered,”
“blithered” or “tonicked,” your grandmother that
he is “tipsy,” the parson that he is “in the grip of
the Demon Alcohol,” the dustman that he is “blue-
blind-paralytic,” Jones’ chum that he has “been in
the sun or “tumbled off the water-waggon,” and so
on indefinitely. In some parts of England he is
“mortal” (witness the vanman in “The Wrong
Box”). I have heard it said that he “had a fly on
his nose.” Even a newspaper report will onlv sav
“drunk and disorderly” in about 10 per cent, of
cases; , the usual thing is “Under the influence of
liquor.” As for the words supplied by individual
fancy, such as “skew-whiff,” “umpty-doo,” etc., who
would undertake to number them? “Dead” ' and
drunk are bedrock facts. The slurring over of
them shown by “passed away” and “inebriated” is
simply the outward sign of one of the deepest-rooted
weaknesses of human nature—the idea that if a fact
can be ignored or hidden, it ceases to be a fact
“Pick” : The Birighis, dark Marys, piccan-
innies and dogs of Wallaga aborigines station(N.S.W.)
have gone out on strike. During a recent visit of
inspection to the camp, a member of the A.P. Board
severely admonished the dusky residents for their
lack of industry. After the official slang-whanging
the camp held a meeting, and resolved, almost unani-
mously, to strike against any further use of “Gub-
ment” tucker or clothing. Since then all but the
blacklegs have abandoned the station, and wandered
away north to long-ago hunting and fishing grounds.
Dear Bulletin,— Again the handiness of
the Australian is exemplified. Some of him were
lately engaged in dragging a lot of sawmilling
machinery into the heart of a Westralian jarrah
forest, when wet weather supervened and burst up
the hauling operations. A fortnight later, when the
dampness had taken up, all the shocking objurga-
tions and amazing effervescence of three combined
teams of bullockies failed to budge the heavy port-
able engine and boiler from its moorings. The con-
traption was hopelessly bogged. The great iron
YISS INDADE.
MRS. McPHLAM: “Me daughter is a most con-
trairee gerril; whin Oi want her to do
phwat she wants to do she doesn't want to !”
wheels had sunk during the wet, and let the weighty
boiler down to its gratings on a usually hard gravelly
natural clearing in the forest. Remarkably enough,
the hardware had subsided with only a slight list to
starboard. So the resourceful persons just let it
go at that, laid down the shaftings, built skids and
benches and things round it, and now the bogged
sawmill is doing good work, turning out material
for railway and jetty construction in three States of
the Commonwealth, besides sawing jarrah paving-
blocks for odd places, like Dunedin and Liverpool, in
its spare time.—Yours, etc., Mallarapoonie (at the
bogged sawmill).
“The Apostle Percy”: The sulphur-crested
cockatoo, about this time of the year, is as heavilv
powdered as the talented lady who mans the beer-
pump. Scratch cocky, and you bring away handfuls
of his Bloom of Ni,non, or whatever brand he affects.
Is he simply a yellowed sepulchre? Or does the en-
terprising bird get his suit dry-cleaned, instead of
unthriftily casting it off per moult?
“Quineeeha”: Kangaroo Island, the sum-
mer resort of the over-heated Adelaide folk, should
offer good copy for a novelist. Flinders, in 1782,
landed where Ivingscote now stands, and a monu-
ment is erected on the spot. After he left he met
the French explorer Baudin, in what is now known
as Encounter Bay. Flinders sailed on towards Tas-
mania, and Baudin, who had come from that direc-
tion, went round south of 1v.1., and. up Spencer’s
Gulf ; then back again along the north coast of the
island. He landed at what is now llog Bay, and on
a rock by the shore one can still read an inscription,
carved by the ship’s carpenter. Flinders was after-
wards held prisoner by the French for eight years.
In the' meantime Baudin published his discoveries.
After Flinders was liberated he got his own adven-
tures into print, but died the day after their publi-
cation. The French have always claimed that
Baudin landed on the island before Flinders, and
declare that the date on the aforementioned rock is
1782. Owen Smythe, of S.A., wrote to the Geogra-
phical Society of France, stating that the date is
plainly 1 1 83, and that, therefore, Flinders was
ahead of Baudin. The first settlers on K.I. were
escaped convicts from Tasmania. For years there
were only two men there, each trying at intervals
to kill the other. When the representatives of the
South Australian Co. came along they found an old
whaler with a couple of gins in possession. He called
himself “Governor Wally,” and “Government
House” can still. be seen. In after years Kingseote
was a whaling and sealing station, and there are
some weird tales in connection thereof. A certain
sealer named Smith was a notable bully, and hated
by his men. One day he was sealing on the south
coast. They used ropes made from seals’ skin to haul
themselves up the cliffs. Smith was hauled up last.
When he was about four yards from the top the rope
was cut, and Smith is supposed to be still falling.
Until quite recently nobody thought much of Kan-
garoo Island, but within the last three years the
place has gone ahead marvellously.
» * * .
“Taieri”: Noo South isn’t the only home
of the cow-cocky sweater. Took a job recently ie
Central Otago (M.L.), and this is what I got for it
Boused at 4 a.m., collected and squeezed dry la
female bulls; delivered extract per boot; breakfast
about 9 a.m. ; pulled and sledged four or five loads
of turnips; ploughed till 3 p.in. ; milked and de-
livered some more; finished for the night about 8
p.m., unless Mrs. Cocky wanted the mangle turned.
I received, under protest, 15s. per week for this, and,
when I left, after three weeks, Cocky called me “a
blarsted Socialist.” I didn’t talk back. After all, I
didn’t have to do any ploughing on Sundays.
♦
“Irrigator” : Given that the patience of
Cohen does not expire, and certain demands
to quench an enormous thirst are met, the
face of the Ma State threatens to become
vastly altered. The sunburnt plain and
starved sheep will become mere echoes of a
bad, old past, and mud will replace dust
over a few million acres at least. For this
particular thirst requires water and not
beer. After countless wasted years a general
awakening promises an embarrassment of
riches. It is certain that to carry out all
the irrigation schemes now yelling in the
public ear will be impossible during the life-
time of the greatest of I O U Ministries.
Apart from the big Burrinjuck business,
Coonamble has afoot a generous project to
use artesian bore water to run a big irriga-
tion settlement. In the western country
there is absolutely no room for question as
to the quality of the soil. Given water it
will grow anything and everything. Dubbo
and Narromine folk are out. to have the Mac-
quarie banked back, and an area equal to a
European principality turned into another
irrigation territory. And all the time, right
close to the Congested Port, there is a steady
pull to bring the Warragamba scheme into
effect. Here the Nepean will be dammed
and a large slab of Cumberland county
watered. Then away out on the Lachlan, at
Cudgellico, the oldest inhabitant invariably
seizes the latest arrival, and points out that
with six feet added to the embankment, there
will be more water in the lake than there is
in Sydney Harbor. For that matter, anyone
vho sees Lake Cudgellico for the first time
must wonder why more is not done with
such a fine sheet of water. Here, again, the
soil is of the best, and £lO,OOO, it is reckoned,
will establish a good irrigation settlement;
but a railway must be built out«to the Lach-
lan. Now, on top of these jobs the north-
west people loom on the horizon with a pro-
posal which, they claim, makes little country
waterworks of all the rest. They want a
dam across the Namoi below Wee Waa.
This, it is reckoned, will impound 500,000.000
acre feet of water as against the 770,000
acre feet at Burrinjuck. The Namoi dam
is to serve 5,000,000 acres, including Pilliga
scrub and the country between Walgett and
Boggabri. As there are other less majestic
schemes in the carpet-bag of sundry “local
members,” the irrigation movement in the
Ma State should keep Minister Griffith
“moving” for quite a time. Considering that
the Burrinjuck scheme has yet to make good,
it would be better, probably, if all attention
was directed to getting some settlers on that
first, and the other attractions could be
seized later on.


BUCKING UP.
TRIPOLI (after the retreat): “Well, Allah be praised, I didn’t plant all my cities on the coast like these Australians. There’s still a chance
for a big fight, and these fellows are having a long walk.”


GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
II
WORLD-FAMED
For
QUALITY
gsfd
For
durability,
20th Century Moleskin
The Best for Hard Wear.
wm,
Registered Trade Mark.
J(WERRArmjDPURECOTTo|fj)
See Chat the above Registered Word and
Trade Mark are on and inside every garment.
Garments can tie obtained at all Storekeepers.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
C. Pj. W. Bean, the S. M. Herald man
who made a hit with his “On the Wool
Track, and then went to London .to keep
his eye on the Empire in “Mr. James’s” in-
terest, has written another yarn, full of back-
country color; and when this “Dreadnought
ot the Darling” is presently published it is
expected to make something of a splash.
Moorabbin (Vic.) has a shire councillor,
W. O. Burgess, who has had the extraor-
dinary fortune to be returned unopposed for
JO years. The other night, at Bentleigh,
the ratepayers entertained him and made
Pip l , vlc tim of a purse of sovereigns,
lhat also was unopposed.
BTi Treglown, an amiable citizen of
.Ballarat (Vic.) who died last week, was the
city s best-known crank. For three years he
had made regular pilgrimages to his own
grave site, which he planted with flowers and
tended religiously. Notwithstanding the at-
tractions of the spot he had so beautified, Tre-
glown was not in a hurry to make it his per-
manent home. He had a haunting horror of
being buried alive, and prescribed that his
funeral should be delayed as long as possible,
to avoid accidents. He had his wish : the un-
dertaker didn’t finish his job until every
doubt had been removed.
AVent out a few days ago after a long
period ot comparative retirement, the bril-
liant William Astley, once “Price Waning,”
of The Bulletin and other papers, lie
was 56 years of age when he left,
in his day he did good work in many lines,
but he will be best remembered by his “Tales
on. tae System,” published in this paper.
Ihey were a strange, powerful, gruesome
A?o?i :ion ’ .P, n d ie time they were written
JN.S.VY. still seemed so near to the convict
cat-and-gallows days—that the
cat-and-gallows stones had a fresh and liv-
-1??^m l tere I set - A decade of Federation has
shifted the. convict period 100 or 200
u?u rS dk ac k ip the national perspective, and
the System now looks almost as if it were
concurrent with the Norman Conquest. But
the literature of that period, as William
Astley wrote it, would seem fresh even if the
convmt days were away at the other side of
the _ Deluge. There were marvellous col-
lections of ghosts about old Sydney—though
many of them have been run over by tram-
cars and killed in these later, crowded times
;and Astley was on hand-shaking terms
with them all.
MUSICAL TEAGEDY.
SQUATT: “Ah, married life so soon unhappy, eh?”
STREEK: “Alas, my wife—lfind she cannot sing.”
S QUATT: "Put ees that, then, such sorrow?”
STREEL: “Alas, my wife —she think she can!”
The Commonwealth Government has got
Judge Gordon, of S. Aus., to act as chair-
man of the Sugar Commission, and he
ought to be a first-rate man for the job.
Probably because it had known him from a
youngster, and had always thought of him
as a politician rather than as a lawyer,
S. Aus. wondered what he was doing on the
Supreme Court Bench when he went there;
but it never wonders now. Gordon, as a
Judge, has been a great success, not because
ot his horse-hair, but because of his horse-
sense. He never pretends that he doesn’t
know as much of life as the ordinary man;
and he has so little regard for Costs and
other conventions that, if two parties are
wrangling, and it’s a toss-up as to which is
right, he is always liable to make the wias
curl with horror by chipping in with: “Well
suppose you split the difference.”
\\. H. Carpenter is putting up a record
as the champion sampler of Parliaments in
Australia. Twelve years ago, Encounter
Bay, having got tired of King O’Malley’s
bird-o’-freedom habits, sent Carpenter to the
S. Aus. Assembly in his place. But Carpen-
ter soon struck trouble in Encounter Bay,
and the King and the Carpenter met next
in the House of Reps.—one as a Tasmanian
member, the other as a Westralian.
Carpenter mislaid his bundle, however, and
went back to find another one; and it turned
up last week, when he easily won the Fre-
mantle seat in the local Assembly.
THE AERIAL POST.
1ST PARTY: “I suppose he’s having a paper
chase? ”
2ND D ITTO: “Oh, no! It must be one of the
mail bags got foul of the propeller."
To what base uses may we come, Horatio!
The house in Grote-street, Adelaide, which
belonged to Speaker Kingston (he bought
the land in 1836), and in which C. C.
Kingston was born, is now the residence of
the caretaker of a lolly factory.
Since South Australian self-government
was established only once has a Solicitor-
General been appointed. That was J. T.
Bagot, who held office in 1857, and he got no
pay. Probably that is the reason why no
other politician chose to fill the position.
J- P-_Franki, the fiery little manager of
Mort s Dock, Sydney, who has his own views
concerning State docks, has retired from
the presidency of the Iron Masters’ Associa-
tion, after seven years of office. His suc-
cessor is named Irons, which seems to sug-
gest something or other —probably some-
thing. If not, it must be other.
Major-General Hoad, commander of Aus-
tralia’s little army, died last week of heart
failure, aged only 55. He was an exceed-
ingly capable officer who had worked up
from the ranks, but because he wasn’t an
imported man—he came from Goulburn in
N.S.W.—every mean, squalid, gilded little
lory regarded him with suspicion, and
scoffed at his abilities. Yet he had great
abilities and fine qualities. His only draw-
back was that he was Australian.
“0.K.” throws a violet on a former G.-G.’s
grave
.. p ity. that two or three of the late Northcote’s
after-dinner speeches in Australia were not phono-
graphed for patterns to his successors! Their tone
was so strictly official, their matter so good of its
kind, and their embellishments in such good taste.
The unaffectedly oratorical formality of Northcote’s
speech when he proposed the toast of the festival, was
quite impressive and almost charming. He knew
exactly what not to say, and how to express himself
fully without appearing to watch his words. He was
a master of the game—a modest artist, rather than a
professor. When he rose to talk he seemed a rather
comical little person, pqrched on a hollow dignity;
but presently he looked, like a big man standing on
his solid merits and quietly commanding respect.
Northcote’s respectable intellect had been trained to
tactful official work whilst; it was very young; and
having kept it in fair condition all the time, the
veteran could catch-on to\a 'subject and swing him-
self like an old gymnast oh, a bar.
Died in Melbourne, last week, two honor-
able old identities of the most opposite types.
Otto Linden, the musician who ended his
professional career as choirmaster at St. Pat’s
Cathedral, came to the Victorian metropolis
in the ’so’s to go gold-digging, then went
away and returned in the ’7ols, to preach the
gospel of Wagner. At various times the tall
and handsome Otto did some';musical direct-
ing in Tasmania and the West; but in Mel-
bourne he was best the sun
went down on Linden manyfold friends shed
a sigh. The other identity, [was Tom
Purves, seedsman and Scotchbyterian church-
man. Purves in his Melbourne tiffie (which
dated back to 1863) must have sold the
germs of Victorian crops innumerable. Col-
lins-street knew him for years as the manager
of Adamson’s seed shop, and subsequently he
became a partner in the kindred business of
Brunning. The trade could have better
spared a less honest man.
N.S.W. Public Service Board, after pon-
dering over the subject for best part of a de-
cade, has advertised for an astronomer at
£BOO a year, plus £lOO house rent. Applica-
tions close with the Agent-v>eneral on No-
vember 30 —in London. So apparently no
Australian need apply. If the trades-
unions clamored half as loudly against the
importation of bishops, astronomers, school-
masters and shoddy, which are not wanted
as they do against the importation of arti-
sans, who are wanted very badly judging by
the quantity of goods which this country
imports, they might do a lot of good.
One of the Belmont small-holdings,
near Geelong (Vic.), has been selected
by Piper Kidd, a hero of the Gordon
llielanders’ charge on Dargai Heights.
In that famous rush Kidd had his
pipes shot from under him; but, not
wanting to be altogether unobjec-
tionable, he picked up the rifle of a
slain swaddy and advanced up the
steep. The enemy, thinking the time
was not ripe for the ascent, riddled
both his legs with bullets. The sur-
geons got one of the limbs, but the
game Kidd is still hopping vigorously
with the other. He takes Mrs. Kidd
and the Kiddkins with him to the se-
lection, which he has already started
to scrub-edit.
Higgs, M.H.R., lifts and seats him-
self with all the slow and stately grace
of an extension ladder at a city lire,
otherwise the Deacookin party would
now be explaining why it was not in
the House to vote on the late
lamented censure motion. The Op-
position, to a man, had fled from
Higgs s denunciations, and Minister
Pudor suddenly realised the oppor-
tunity of having the question put.
Higgs began to fold up his speech and
himself, but, before he had taken more
than three reefs in the mainsail of
his carcase, there was a sound like
the blowing of autumn leaves along
u e * gangway, and beautiful were
the teet of Palmer, the bringer of good
f'nings. A shrill, agitated voice cried,
’ Speaker, and in another minute
the solemn protest of Liberalism'’
was again in full blast. All by rea-
son of the time the non-collapsible
Higgs took to fold himself up and put
himself away.
Three notable men passed out last week at
a comparatively early age. Federal Mini-
ter Fgerton Lee Batchelor was 46; General
rioad w'as 55; and William Astley, journal-
W u\ 56 ; f^i W 0 of , thei P passed out
through heart failure, which is the favorite
door into the Beyond these days.
George Murray K.C., who was offered a
temporary Judgeship in S.A. when Judge
Bordon was given the chairmanship of the
Commonwealth Sugar Commission, is one of
JJ or tune s favorites—handsome, tall and
clever, with charming manners and a private
fortune. He declined the offer on the alleged
ground that one of his partners is away on a
holiday. At 48, he is young as such things
go, and popular opinion suggests the Chief
Justiceship for him when Way (who is well
ov .er 70) drops the bundle of old age. Mean-
while, Attorney-General Denny states plainly
that he himselt is not in the field for a Judge-
ship; so, whoever gets the billet, the first
judicial appointment made by a Labor Minis-
try will also be the first in S. Aus. for 40
years on which the breath of gossip cannot
blow.
Handed in his earthly resignation at
Balmain (N.S.W.), the other day, Cap-
tain John Pearson, one of the best-
known of the sailing-ship skippers in the
Australian-Maoriland trade. It was Pear-
son who displayed such skill and courage
when the timber scow Whangaroa, of which
he had charge, sprang a leak, and was aban-
doned in mid-ocean, after the crew had
been roosting on the deck-house for nearly
a week. All hands reached Lord Howe
Island, mainly as a result of their skipper’s
efforts, and, later on, when the N.S.W.
Marine Court was officially told the story, it
took its horse-hair hat off to Pearson, and
said he was “Bosker,” or words which meant
the same thing.
Egerton Lee Batchelor, Federal Minister
tor External Affairs, dropped dead last Sun-
day without notice. He was only 46, and
was a vigorous, wiry-looking, abstemious
man Also, he came to his end while en-
gaged in a healthy, yet gentle form of exer-
C 1?? A % WaHaby Club of pedestrians, to
which he belonged, had just set out for a
pleasant Sunday walk when the trouble hap-
pened. Even the maddest religious crank
< rf 0 n f t , extract a moral from the death of
Batchelor. Though he was still a young
man, he had had a fairly long political
, He u entered the S.A. Assembly in
was aged only 28. At the age
the S.A. Labor party, and he
was Minister of Education and Agriculture
under Premier Hold r when he was 34
lhen he entered the Australian Parlia-
ment, a,nd held a safe seat as long as he
jived. In fact, his seat became safer the
longer he lived. In 1901 South Australia
was polled as one constituency, and Batche-
ioao u e seven members
T} eC vm.‘ defeated Solomon at
Boothby by 9 1 3 votes. In 1906 he was un-
opposed, and in 1909 he defeated Paris Nes-
bit—a man of vastly greater tonnage than
Solomon, ffy 4240 votes. He had a nort-
tolio in each of the three Federal Labor Min-
istries. It is questionable if any man in the
Australian Parliament was more popular or
more deserving of popularity, and in noint
ot intellect he ranked either first or a
very good second among the members of the
Eisher Ministry. Australia will find Eger-
ton Lee Batchelor hard to replace
The Orthodox Greeks of Melbourne have
imported a new priest, the Rev. Archiman-
drite Theophanis Androutzopoulos. As a
concession to righteousness, the s.s Oceanien
didn’t charge cargo rates for the name.
The Judge whom the Commonwealth has
got to inquire into the sugar business is one
ot two quaintly-named but unrelated Gor-
dons who formerly pervaded South Aus-
tralia. One, the Government rep. in the
Leg. Council, was John Hannah, the present
Judge; the other, the Slate Commandant,
was Joseph Maria, nowadays Commandant
in N.S.W.
Frank Lawry, M.H.R., Maoriland, who
has, with one brief break, been a member of
the Reps for the past 30 years, will not seek
re-election in November. He started Mara-
thon politics in 1881, but it was a false
start. Next election, 1884, Maurice
O Rorke (afterwards eight times Speaker of
the House) tripped him up at Manakau.
Lawry, however, made a fresh start in 1887
at North Franklin, and has been a sure
thing ever since. Twenty-one years back he
offered himself to the Parnell electors, and if
he hadn’t resigned or died he would never
have got rid of them. Attorney-General
Findlay, M.L.C., has “agreed” to contest the
seat, but Lawry denies that he was induced
to give it up for that purpose. Apparently,
it is one of those convenient coincidences
which astonish everybody—that is, nearly
everybody.
THE LATE EGER TOLL LEE
BATCHELOR, Minister for Ex-
ternal Affairs.
Arthur Balfour, ex-Prime Minister of Eng-
land, as “Vanoc” (who is Arnold White)
sees him in London Referee (20/8/’ll) :
Mr. Balfour seems the apotheosis of that graceful
and willowy softness which is making history . . .
exhibits a quality associated with the female mind
• . . is the embodiment of the spirit that compels
a schoolboy to refuse the extraction of his tooth
without cocaine or ether ... a male spinster. . . .
The followers of Mr. Balfour know him as a jealous
leader. How many promising careers on his own
side in the House of Commons has he not disbudded
in their youth? As soon as these young men have
reached a certain position in public esteem, they are
squelched. He is not an English oak, but an “elm
that hateth mankind and waiteth Till every gust be
laid, To drop a limb on the head of him That any
way trusts her shade.”
The Balfourian spirit will not fight until it is
kicked, and then always loses . . . The tone of his
mind is not healthy. In our country’s present plight,
a man with backbone and belief who cannot play
golf is preferable to a champion of negation with a
handicap of two. . . . To awaken the new force Mr.
Balfour must go. Until he is stellenbosched, further
“regrettable affairs” will contribute to the story of
“How the Empire Crumbled.”
In S.A. the Deputy Speaker wears neither
wig nor gown. There is no Mace, and no
specially-attired Sergeant-at-Arms. When
two o’clock comes the Speaker assumes a
sitting attitude without any ceremony, and
the clerk announces “The Speaker’s in the
Chair.” By-and-bye he may even drop that
remark, unless the House achieves a blind
member. There is no procession or fuss of
any kind, and there is seldom anybody
thrown out.
The S. Aus. Labor Government is showing
a lot of people the way to dodge the Rent
fiend. The State has had a bank of its own
for years past, it wasn’t until lately
that it built an Advances for Homes branch
on the same foundations. To-day. through
that branch, the S., Australian, if he can
raise £lOO of his own, can borrow £4OO to
put into a home; and by paying 12s. 3d. a
week for the rent of the £5OO premises—less
in most cases than the landlord would bleed
him of —the place becomes his absolute pro-
perty in 20 years, and the fiend is thereafter
dead for ever.


KIS
A
Mm*
jjmm
*2
V?
-
/,
lIJMIIHII,
«Ul4]i
lillli
iiffiliii!/]
1
ODoygoi
eo]6^
y
The Australian
National Smoke
Motorists Prefer <s Havelock ”
Because, no matter how fast the pace, its coolness,
smoothness, and evenness of combustion never
vary from the first touch of the match to the
last lingering whiff.
COT (IN TINS) FLAKE OR MIXTURE.
ALSO IN PLUG FORM.


WORTHINGTON PUMPS
For
ALL SERVICES.
GAS ENGINES and PLANTS, OIL ENGINES, CONDENSING APPARATUS.
"" 32-34 CLARENCE STREET. SYDNEY
ORE BUYERS.
Cash Advances Made Against Consignments.
CORRESPONDENCE SOLICITED.
EDWARDS’ ORE REDUCTION COMPANY,
HEAD OFFICE: SEBASTOPOL, BALLARAT.
Telephone N 0.—283 Cable AddressPYRITIC,” BALLARAT. [2
The WILD CAT
COLUM
N. S. Wales had a revenue of £3,358,308
last quarter, and notwithstanding a gain of
£142,362, compared with the corresponding quarter
■of 1910, it borrowed £696,392 more. The little
bill in account with the pawnshop was £1,166,166,
or at the rate of just upon £5,000,000 a year.
“And all of it raised in Sydney,” says the enthus-
iastic chronicler; meaning thereby that the Ma
State has left off giving Cohen an I O U, and now
gives herself an I O Me. Which of the two is the
more insane it would be hard to say. If Ma has the
money to pay for railways, culverts, etc., and must
have them, she would save herself a lot of worry,
ink, paper and humbug by paying up, and have done
with the thing. She will have to pay, whether she
pays to-day or 50 years hence, and the bill won’t be
any the less for being kept on the file for 50 years,
and she won’t be a penny the better off for paying
herself interest while it is on the file. Besides the
£1,166,166 of pawnshop money, the pledged-to-
eeonomy Government spent £3,954,506 on revenue
account, £240,209 out of the Public Works Fund,
and £124,371 on Closer Settlement account—a total
of £5,485,252, or £897,653 more than for the
corresponding quarter of last year.
Victoria had a revenue of £2,056,385, or £94,836
more than for the July-September fragment of 1910 ;
railways brought in £185,466 more, thus counter-
balancing the drop of £128.497 in the subsidies paid
by the Commonwealth. Hitherto a big railway re-
venue has been almost universally regarded as a
thing to be proud of; but some day the public may
begin to suspect that the country would be a good
deal better off if the congestion policy didn’t compel
it to carry its goods such unnecessary distances and
pay such unnecessary freights. Queensland had a
quarter’s revenue of £1,586,349, and a quarter’s
expenditure of £849,313, plus three months’ interest
uncharged. On loan account, Denham got through
£636,360, or at the rate of £2,500,000 a year for a
handful of 605,000 people. Most of this money is
being spent on railways, though already, to the end of
June, Queensland had a mile of State railway to every
156 people, whereas N. S. Wales, though it is one of
the most heavily-railwayed countries in the world, has
but one mile to every 438 people.
S. Australia has had a quarter’s revenue of
£991,888 a gain of £112,921. Expenditure figures
are not mentioned. Westralia got in £850,815, and
spent £893,107, so the alleged surplus of £13,302,
with which the year started, has been changed into
a deficit of £28,990, and, on top of that, the
new Labor party begins with a gloomier agricultural
outlook than any the State has had for 10 years.
Tasmania collected £231,184, as against £209,932
for the first one-fourth of last year; bpt the Speck
preserves a dark silence concerning its outgoings.
* * * *
The South British Insurance Co. (Maori-
land) v
Net To Re- Re-
Aug., Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1900.. £39,488 20 p.c. =£12,926 £26,562 £223 644
1901.. 36,975 22£ ~ ~ 14,541 22,434 246,078
1902.. 44,896 25 ~ ~ 16,157 28,739 274 817
1903.. 43,925 25 „ „ 16,157 27,768 302,585
1904.. 75,532 30 ~ ~ 19,388 56,144 358,729
£32,314 Reserves transferred to Capital .. 326 415
1905 -f 58 ’ 691 25 p.c. = 25,000 33,691 360,106
( New Share Premiums .. 9,411 369 517
1906.. 72,103 27J p.c. = 27,500 44,603 414 120
1907.. 48,121 30 „ „ 30,000 18,121 432‘>41
1908.. 40,308 30 „ „ 30,000 10,308 442,549
1909.. 53,991 30 „ ~ 30,000 23,991 466 540
1910.. 74,740 32£ „ „ 32,500 42,240 508,780
1911.. 83,382 35 ~ ~ 35,000 48,382 557,162
The accounts show surplus revenue or profit for the
past year of £87,174; but that can be recon-
ciled with the £83,382 shown in the table;—
Revenue account balance .. .. .. £87,174
Transfer to Re-insurance Fund .. .. 10*000
Total . . . . .. . . £97
Less written off leaseholds, etc. ..£2670 ’
Written off Investment Reserve 419
Grant to Officers’ Fund .. 4303
Bonus to officers .. . . 6500
13,792
Net profit £83,382
The £lO,OOO transferred to the Re-insurance Fund
carries that reserve up to £150,000. The £lO,OOO,
though included with the net profit, is, however, only
profit provided certain things happen—or, rather, don’t
happen. It is really an amount put by to provide
for the increased risks assumed during the year, and
still current at the end of the year. In the same
way, the £150,000, which is included with the re-
serves, is only a reserve subject to the same quali-
fications. There are few concerns more profitable
than a successful fire insurance co. ; but not every
co. that is started is a success. In fact, five out of
every eight of the Australian and Maoriland cos.
that were doing business in the early ’Bo’s, when the
South British was a 10-year-old, have disappeared—
the Adelaide Marine and Fire, the Australasian, the
Australian General, the Canterbury, the Colonial of
Maoriland, and so on through a dreadful list of in-
fant mortalities. The nursing has a great deal to
do with the result. In general, big dividends in the
early years and big business in the later years, don’t
go together. The client, of the bank and the insur-
ance office alike, is an undiscriminating fool in many
respects; but at least he knows that if the share-
holders collar the money, it can’t be in the till too;
and he is only interested in the money that is in the
till, and thus available to pay his probable or pos-
sible losses. This co., even when it was doing re-
markably well, paid only 10 p.c. divs. ; in fact,
when it came of age, it was still paying only 10
p.c., and it had never done any stock-watering in
order to swell its bite at the profits. So its re-
serves piled up, and to-day they have reached such a
sum that interest and rents actually pay the whole
30 p.c. dividend on capital, thus allowing the co. to
lay by the whole of the underwriting profit. This
glittering result, in the main the result of early
self-denial, commands business; hence the figures
continue to climb skyward;—
Net Ex- Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses. penses. Rate. Rate
1895.. £209,239 £136,160 £50,229 65-0 p.c. 24‘Ope
1900.. 215,730 130,123 57,925 60‘3 „ 26‘9 , '
1905.. 297,822 180,009 82,366 60’4 „ 27‘7
1907.. 333,131 218,314 92,032 65‘5 „ 27'6
1908.. 317,620 200,414 102,438 63T „ 32‘2 ’
1909.. 310,437 185,203 96,225 59'6 „ 30'9
1910.. 336,542 197,320 94,824 58’6 „ 28T ”
1911.. 353,240 187,832 103,260 53‘17 „ 29.23,,
Though the profits are so large the loss rate is high,
which, no doubt, can be put to the debit of the
co.’s big marine business. The same thing explains
the comparatively low expense rate. No doubt it
would be still lower but for the fact that the co.’s
shingle hangs out almost everywhere; and if you’ve
got a world-wide insurance business, and don’t want
to fall into the soup, you’ve got to bid high for
specially qualified inspectors. And it pays to bid
high for the specialist, as the South British found
over its Asiatic marine business, which is reputed to
be exceedingly profitable.
The eo.’s capital remains at the old £lOO,OOO,
shareholders having resisted the temptation to trans-
fer any of the reserves to capital. This leaves them
open to be called on to pay no less than £900,000.
But when they consider the £557,162 of reserves,
which stand between them and calls, they probably
don’t lose much sleep over the liability. The funds
are invested as follows: Landed property. £257,984 ;
mortgages, £222,690; deposits and various public
securities, £200,012. Floating cash balances run
to about £86,000. There certainly is a very large
sum tied up in properties and mortgages, and the in-
vestment fluctuation reserve (£2564) is very trifling
considering the risks; but the interest return is very
high—approximately 5J p.c. on the invested funds.
This may indicate that the securities are under-
valued ; on the other hand, it may just as probably
mean that some of the securities are risky, and a
more ample provision to meet contingencies is de-
sirable.
* * * *
The Civil Service Co-operative Society of
N.S.W., Ltd. (Sydney):—
Dividend (10 p.c.)
and Bonus on
Net. Purchases (10 To Re- Re-
Profits. p.c. Bonus). serves. serves.
Jan., 1905..-f# 8 ’ 1 ? 5 £7 ’ 25 ° £a4s
( Premiums on new shares 6887 23,610
July, 1905.. 8,410 7,188 1222 24,832
Jan., 1906.. 8,925 7,751 1174 26,006
July, 1906.. 8,062 6,995 1067 27,073
(11J p.c. Bonus.)
Jan., 1907.. 9,138 8,298 840 27,913
July, 1907.. 5,809 8,251 558 28,471
Jan., 1908.. 9,298 9,034 264 28,735
July, 1908.. 9,697 9,043 654 29,389
Jan., 1909 . 10,507 9,970 537 29,926
July, 1909.. 9,388 9,531 29,783
Jan., 1910.. 11,864 10,401 1463 31,246
July, 1910.. 10,272 9,763 509 31,756
Jan., 1911.. 12,082 10,477 1605 33,360
July, 1911.. 10,908 10,140 768 34,128
One or two guesses have to be made in that last
line; in particular, it is assumed that £350 of the
bonuses to which purchasers are entitled, will not be
called for, in which event the amount will be for-
felted. Some amount always is forfeited ; the si fie
of it mostly depends upon the weight of the public’s
purse and the importance of sixpence. For instance,
in the first half of 1904, when sixpence was sixpence,
the uncalled for bonuses were only £260 ; last half-
year, when sixpence was only about tuppence-ha’-
penny, in a manner of speaking, the unclaimed total
was £459. The bonus is the same good old 2s. 3d.
in the £ which would be a very dazzling bonus,
indeed, if you were always quite sure that some of
it wasn t sometimes put on the goods for the special
purpose of enabling the co. to ceremoniously take it
off again. Still, if some goods are marked up so that
they may be marked down again, you can’t get any
evidence of it from the published accounts; on the
contrary, the steady growth of the business suggests
that the society offers some very solid advantages.
In fact, if it buys well and works at a low expense
rate, it simply must offer solid advantages, inas-
much as, apart from its small dividend ( £694 per
half-year), practically all the profit goes, back to the
purchaser, this shows the total receipts and the ex-
pense rate: —
Gross Proportion
Cash Profit on Working Expenses
. Receipts. Sales, etc. Expenses, to Receipts
Jan., 1900.. £67,522 £15,997 £10,158 15'04 pc’
July, 1908.. 115,130 28,354 17,106 14-86 '
Jan., 1909.. 125,908 31,821 19,983 15 87 ”
July, 1909.. 122,629 31,063 19,929 16‘25 ”
Jan., 1910.. 133,247 34,643 21,181 15-90
July, 1910.. 126,780 32,600 20,272 15-99 ”
Jan., 1911.. 139,740 35,976 21,953 15-71 ”
July, 1911.. 136,860 36,362 23,174 16'93 ’’
The expense rate has moved up; but that is pro-
bably due to crcumstances beyond the directors’ con-
trol. And, anyhow, neither the dividend nor bonus
“ “ Q d o a ? ge F -I et - The co.’s capital is a very modest
£13,884; but as the reserves are pretty large, and
as almost all the customers pay cash, and as the co.
has nothing invested in freeholds or leaseholds, it
n l ana S es to do without overdrafts or other
liabilities, but is able to pay cash, and thereby earn
large discounts. These discounts alone last half-year
were equal to 10 p.c. of the capital—which shrieks
the advantage of cash trading at the top of its voice.
S. Aus. Farmers’ Co-operative Union
Ltd. which handles a large quantity of the S. Aus!
wheat crop, markets frozen meat, and deals in agri-
cultural requirements:— °
. To Re- Re-
lorw6 ’ IjOSS - Dividends. serves. serves.
1907.. - £6OB
1908.. £6,692 Nil _ De 6,084
Profit. Reserves
1909.. 20,364 6 p.c. = £lBB9 £18,475 12 391
Loss. Deficit,
1910.. 18,649 Nil _ 6,258
ion a Reserves.
1911.. 15,649 6 p.c. = 2200 13,449 7,191
Tll ? r ® a good deal of gambling in this business;
and that is due to wheat-dealing. The co. cuts out
the speculative element as much as it can, but it
hasn t yet been able to get business and avoid all risk
at the same time. The margin of profit under aver-
age conditions appears to be too small; a co. that
made a loss of £18,649 in one year certainly ought
to have been able to accumulate bigger re-
serves than £7191 in 20 years. Suppose, for
instance, that it had made the same loss
1.. 19 . 11. as mad e in 1910 (and that
would be very easily possible), practically two-thirds
ot the capital would then have disappeared ; and if
the same loss were made the third year—well, some-
thing very unpleasant would happen. From even the
foregoing brief table it will be seen that the co
can t have even one bad year without showing a de-
ficit; that is to say, its reserves are so weak that
they cant stand even one bad year’s losses. Alto-
gether, it looks as though the S. Aus. farmer is a
poor co-operator; the only alternative is that this
co. doesn t do its job properly. The object of co-
operation of this sort is to save the co-operator the
middleman’s profits. The working exes, of the co-
operative concern ought to be no greater than those
of a Private Enterprise concern; but, whereas Pri-
vate Enterprise pockets the commissions, etc., in excess
of working exes., the co-operative concern holds that
excess m trust for the co-operators. Co-operation
gives' the producers a service at actual cost price •
and if Private Enterprise can do it for less, it can
mean only one of two things: the co-operative con-
cernisnt working as cheaply as the other concern,
or the other concern is gambling—that is to say is
giving its customer an advantage to-day, in the hope
of taking a bite out of him to-morrow. Theoreti-
cally, the producer who doesn’t co-operate is a fool
In practice, however, the co-operative concern mav
give poorer results than the other; but if it does
it must be due to one of the two things mentioned
above. Either the business management of the co-
operative concern must be poor, or Private Enter-
prise is throwing a sprat to catch a mackerel. The
trouble that besets most people who run co-operative
concerns is that their half-baked co-operative clients
want the sprat, but don’t want to be the mackerel
they want to swallow the Private Enterprise bait
without taking the hook. So when P. Enterprise
being on for a gamble, offers a tempting price, he
gets the business; and the co-operative concern is
only fallen back upon when P. Enterprise isn’t offer-
ing baits. This doesn’t give the co-operative concern
a fair chance, or half of it; what these half-baked
co-operators won’t realise is that the co-operative
concern is themselves, wherefore it is really them-
selves that they are handicapping. "
T . get baek , to , s - Aus - society in particular.
It has a present capital of £38,368, and as some of
this has been got in during the last few months, the
amount of the dividend has had to be estimated in
the last line of the table. Liabilities include:
Clients’ wheat and other produce in trust, £385 181 •
sundry creditors, including deposits, £128,302’
Almost all the capital is invested in freehold and
plant; so all the financing of the big business has
to be done with other people’s money. Apparently
strenuous efforts have been made to get in more
capital, but not with much success—-and one can’t
be very much surprised at that on the dividend re-
cord. Yet the concern ought to be, and no doubt is,
immensely valuable to the S. Aus. farming com-
munity ; and, after 23 years’ life, it ought to have a
reserve of £lOO,OOO or so. That it hasn’t much
more than 100,000 shillings and that its dividend
record is so poor, says very little for the co-operative
spirit and the good sense of the S. Aus. farmers as a
body. And they are not excused even if they say
that the management isn’t good. On that point The
Bulletin knows nothing. But if it isn’t good, it is
the S.A. farmers’ own fault.
The Queensland Civil Service Co-operative
Co. (Brisbane)
Writ-
Dividends. Purchasers’ ten Re-
Profits, and Duty. Bonus. Off. serves.
Dec., 1904.. £729 5 p.c. =£l4o 6J p.c. =£282£63 £1212
July, 1905.. 817 4 „ ~ 139 7 ~ „ 427 46 1417
Jan., 1906.. 954 4 „ „ 127 7 „ „ 493 46 1706
July, 1906.. 775 4 „ „ 129 7 „ „ 533 46 1774
Premiums on shares, £6 i7§o
Jan., 1907.. 906 4 p.c. = 133 7 p.c. ~ 590 44 1919
Premiums on shares, £3 ~ 1922
July, 1907.. 1216 4p.c.= 159 7 p.c, ~ 57? 347 2055
Jan., 1908.. 1165 6 „ „ 165 7 „ „ 700 97 2253
July, 1908.. 936 6 „ „ 164 7* ~ „ 688 42 2300
Jan., 1909.. 884 6 „ „ 164 6£ ,» „ 654 41 2325
July, 1909.. 1233 6 „ „ 163 6£ >, „ 633 110 2652
Jan., 1910.. 1063 6 „ „ 165 6£ „ ~ 675 51 2824
July, 1910.. llf)0 5 „ „ 163 „ 629 99 3123
Jan., 1911.. 909 5 ~ „ 165 6J „ „ 674 18 3175
July, 1911.. 1253 5 „ „ 165 6i „ „ 682 103 35<>S
The total sales for the half-year Wbte £19,821-
seven years ago, for the corresponding six months’,
u l ? y ,. we ]i e £12,953. The progress is satisfactory,
but the figures are Still much below what they should
he- The Co., with a paid Capital of £5OlB, Owes
£3463, exclusive of dividends arid bdhuSes, and its
own book debts ariiOurit fa) £3371. The figures are
not large, yet they are too large for a co-op. concern
whose SuCCeSs depends mainly on cash trading.
The Denton Hat Mills, Ltd. (Melbourne),
from the last issue of a few new shares in the old
co. at a small premium:—
t . . Written To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves. ser\ es
mo?- 10 p.c. = £2450 - £664 £4OBO
1901.. 2857 10 ~ ~ 2450 407 4487
1902.. 2955 10 „ „ 2450 - 505 499?
1903.. 3268 10 ~ ~ 2584 £1045 4631
1904.. 3117 10 „ „ 2990 - 127 4758
1905.. 3208 10 ~ ~ 3000 208 4966
1906.. 3363 10 ~ ~ 3000 363 5329
1907.. 3684 10 ~ ~ 3000 684 6013
1908.. 3969 10 ~ ~ 3000 969 6982
New co. formed ; capital increased to £45,005,
of which only the odd £5 appears to have
been paid in cash.
1909.. 5636 9 p.c. = 4125 1511 1511
1910.. 6923 12£ ~ „ 5626 1297 2808
1911.. 7919 13f„ „ 6188 _ 1731 4539
The old co. was in 30,000 shares; the new is in
45,005. The odd £5 was apparently paid up in
cash; the other 15,000 seems to have been made up
by capitalising visible reserves and creating other re-
serves by the simple process of writing up assets.
1 hose assets may have been worth the extra money *
this paper can’t say anything further than that there
appears to have been a revaluation. Also, it can’t
say anything definite as to whether depreciation and
wear and tear are now being adequately written off.
It they are not, then, of course, the profits are over-
stated. The accounts, however, say that deprecia-
tion of plant is provided for ; but the amount isn’t
mentioned. The co. ha.s done well for a good many
years, and appears to be doing even better now. It
got a good start under Victoria’s old Protectionist
policy, and it had the further advantage of getting
under the wing of the wholesale distributors, so that
it didn’t have to battle so hard and spend so much
money in breaking down a-nti-Australian prejudice
before getting a market, and it was never worried
by bad debts. Its financial position is very good ;
including some contingent liabilities it owes only
£6778, and its liquid assets (including book debts')
total £13,631.
* * * *
The Commercial Building and Investment
Co. (Sydney) :
Loss on
Loss on Property Total
June, Business. Sales. Loss. Deficit.
1901 .. £lB6 £IS6 £9,479
1902 .. 45 45 9,524
Profit. Profit.
1903 .. 708 708 8,816
1904 .. 286 286 8,530
Loss. Loss.
1905 .. 396 £8165 8561 17,091
Profit. Profit,
1906 .. 758 758 16,333
1907 .. 327 327 16,006
1908 .. 819 V—. 819 15,187
Profit.
1909 .. 2425 2500 4925 10,262
Loss. Loss.
1910 .. 790 5850 5060 15,322
Reserves.
Capital written off, £106,024, reducing
it to £54,624, and leaving .. .. 22,474
Loss on Loss on Total
Business. Sales. Loss.
19H .. 907 6645 7552 14,922
The capital was £200,000 in £lO shares; but there
were 4393 shares whose owners didn’t come up to
the scratch when calls were made, and their forfeit-
ure left 15,607 alive. On the 4393 dead shares,
£23,745 was unpaid; on the live shares there was
£1 apiece uncalled; total, £39,352. Deduct that
from £200,000, and the nominally live capital on
June 30, 1910, was £160,648. The co. was formed
in 1881 to deal mainly in Sydney city and suburban
property, much the same yarn being told then that
one hears to-day—Sydney must go ahead, and con-
sequently property values couldn’t possibly look back.
As everybody knows, they not only looked back, but
avalanched back, and when this co. got its breath,
it found that it had not only its own capital, but a
vast quantity of borrowed money sunk in unsaleable
property. In 1893, with a paid capital of £50,000,
the co. stood this way: Liabilities, £228,896; city
properties, £238,418; suburban ditto. £40,415.
Already the properties were showing a loss ; for the
mortgagee wants his interest whether the “magnifi-
cent home sites” are bringing in anything or not.
then a dreadful struggle started with the interest
bill, and the rates and the taxes and the office’s
exes, and various other monsters, and the beasts
were only pacified by calling up capital and throw-
ing it to them. By June 30, 1910, a few sales of
city and suburban properties had reduced the hold-
ing to £245,249 (book value); and another £110,648
ol capital had been squeezed out of the shareholders.
Between the sales and the calls the liabilities had
been reduced to £104,185. At that point the
co. decided to find out approximately where it stood,
and a revaluation of assets was made. To balance
the accounts it then became necessary to write the
£lO shares down to £4 10s. (£3 10s. paid). It
is, however, doubtful whether the writing down is
severe enough; still, enough capital was written off
to provide a fair contingency fund, allowing of a
further shrinkage in values. The weak point in the
situation is that the premises owned by the co. are
now mostly aged—it is about 25 years since the
bulk of them were acquired—and the outlay on up-
keep and repairs is consequently heavy; thus, last
year, while the rentals brought in £11,381, the re-
pair bill was £4124, though that was something
more than the average. And on top of that is the
bill on a debt which still amounts to
£75,587. Nevertheless, future results ought to be
much better than those shown in the last line of the
table printed above. Under normal conditions and
- L- ? V6raSe biH l° r repairs > etc -> there should be
a small business profit instead of a loss; while the
big loss shown on sales was apparently made on a
KT™ £ ot “*“ y leto ' the
Melbourne Permanent Building Society
Business Profit on Total Dividends Be-
S’.. 2S Ss-
Loss.
1902 .. 4733 10 4723 i 6 no,
1903 .. 4460 485 3975 _ 20 006
Capit 1 written down from £177,164 to ’
inn. £'0,866 ; £257 being added to Reserves 20.263
1004 .. 4012 4012 _ 0107=
1905 .. 2617 2617 £1741 d’H?
1906 .. 2874 2874 1737 26^288
1907 .. 3244 3244 27,445
Profit. (± r» c )
1908 .. 4012 1172 5184 2780 29,843
191 n " lf?n 0 10 6291 31,647
1910 .. 4119 3no 4476 3493 32 6’9
Loss.
1911 4067 533 3534 3490 32,667
Perhaps it would be just as Well to brand those rto
■?£“ . ‘"omina!” ; but The Bulletin will give
It th , e do fbt for another 12 months:
still, the fact that a loss is shown Oil the sales made
dur * n & tbe P as t year suggests tjulte audibly that the
wnting down in 1903 wasn’t severe eriough The
management seeitis to think so. tdd, because the cofi-
fu,nd {’ithertp included With the reserves;
i U thß othel- side of the balance-
the item appears rioW in this form-
Hbuse property at Valuation (.£93,666), leii Cori-
tlnZenty Furid < £18,624), £75;042;” btill evert
T 1 m nai ® nt * n S' ency i tl ! nd all stamped; there is
£ 14,044 Of Reserves left; There is, Of bourse, n 6
certain way bf telling Whether the house property
nLr/i’VT 1 , -l 75 ’ 012 ; and certainly isn’t tod
cheerful to find that net rentals from properties ill
possession totalled only £3165 for the past year
for that means less than 4} p.c. on the £75,042.’
The interest return admittedly isn’t an infallible
test; but on general principles one would say that
the properties ought to show more than 41 p.c., and
if so they can’t be worth £75,042. As money has
been got in from the sale of properties it has been
100-5 ly appll ® d to the re 'P a yment of old debt. In
1893, when the crash came, the deposit and deben-
liability wag £435,536; but there is less than
a fourth of that unpaid now. This shows what has
been done of late years:—
, _ New Advances
mo. Old Debt. Deposits, etc. to Clients,
1000 •• ±w5 ’ 577 £1,608 £31,325
1909 .. 126,160 17,828 100,972
1910 .. 112,065 12,507 111,224
1911 .. 101,580 10,793 113,568
“Advances to clients” are no doubt mostly unpaid
balances on properties sold on terms. Apparently
there rsn t much new building society business offer-
mg; tn fact, the society had a few thousands on de-
posit at call at the end of the year, which is pretty
good proof that the borrower on building society
terms isn’t very plentiful at present. Perhaps it’s
just as well ; for the chances are that the man who
wants a cottage home will pay an abnormal price for
it it he buys just now. And, besides, even in those
places where lie can’t borrow from the State at pre-
sent, he has hopes of being able to do it be-
long; a " d . the State can fairly lend on terms
which the building society can’t reasonably ap-
proach. The building societies have done some
splendid work, and they didn’t deserve the bad odor
their mismanages pushed them into; but it looks
very much as though the State would for the future
take their place, and even the Anti-Sosher will find
it awkward to throw a brick at a scheme for help-
ing the* thrifty to provide themselves with homes.
The Newcastle Coal Co. (N.S. W.)
Writ-
ii ten To Re - Re -
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves serves
June, 1904.. £5660 7Jp.c. =43750 £5302 £11969
I T )ec -’ 7107 5 „,, 2500 7963 8,613
June, 190:,.. 3582 Nil 2688 £894 9,507
Dec., 1905.. 6854 6 p.c. = 3000 6137 7 224
June, 1906.. 5376 6 „ „ 3000 3601 - 5 999
Dec., 1906.. 3682 6 „ „ 3000 2093 - 4 588
Deo"’ 1907 6 » » 2500 2556 1771 6.359
Dec., 1907.. ,i 561 5 ~ ~ 2500 1.143 1918 8 277
June, 1908.. 7633 5 „,, 2500 6326 7’084
? eC- ’ tnnn'' 8211 5 ” ” 2500 5430 281 7,’365
June, 1909.. 7014 5 ~ ~ 2500 5234 6 645
Dec., 1909.. 3807 Nil 4134 _ k qio
June, 1910.. 2698 Nil 4305 4’u?
Dec., 1910" 2963 Nil 3600 -
June, 1911.. 4967 5 p.c. = 2500 2351 116 4,190
This is one of the Newcastle concerns which ate all
a v 6W °f the cake, and then looked in
the cupboard to find it. Naturallv. it wasn’t there.
lb ®” 11 lo ° ked m its purse to sec if it had enough
another one; and though there wasn’t
t 0 >Uy a c ? ke ’ reckoned that it might,
PUt depos,t on a scone, and trust to
luck to pay off the balance. As a matter of fact, it
™.i one far better than it deserved; for though the
Whitburn, the property it got hold of at Maitland,
didn t promise too well at first, it has been opened
at very small cost, and is now producing very good
coal. As for the old mine, there is very little left
thOU& K , the , mineral rights of small adjacent
scraps are being bought in order to keep it going a
bit longer. The once profitable Ocean leases were
exhausted early this year, and have been abandoned.
Hie new Whitburn property consists of 546 acres of
freehold and a small leasehold, and cost £13,732
the lot. The position after that deal was made com-
pares with the present showing as follows; —
T . , ..." 1907. 1911.
Liabilities . . . . £h ( 6oB £18,490
Liquid assets .. . . 13,654 18,603
Surplus .. .. £2,046 £ll3
So, though the co. has not got in any new capital,
it has managed to pay for the development and par-
equipment of the new colliery without going into
debt. It has merely eaten up most of the small
surplus with which it started. And some of the
i S acd ually been paying a modest dividend,
this result is a wicked temptation to coal-mining
cos. to be improvident. Still, mining cos. won’t
always find circumstances so favorable—as witness
the struggles of the Heddon Greta.
* * * *
The Sydney Meat Preserving Co. (Sydney):—
Loss
on ists’ Writ- Added
Busi- Subsidy ten to Be- Re-
cess. Received. Off. serves, serves.
Dec., 1994.. £4367 £4549 £lB2 £50,232
June, 1905.. 6315 3619 _ 47,536
Dec., 1905.. 4390 4529 139 47,675
June, 1906 4229 4401 172 47,847
Dec., 1906.. 4949 5663 714 48,561
Profit.
June, 1907.. £930 930 49,491
Dec., 1907.. 103 103 49,594
Loss.
June, 1908.. 4,028 - 45,566
Profit.
Dee., 1908.. 700 700 46,266
June, 1909.. 2,152 2,152 48,418
Dec., 1909.. 13,985 £5OOO 8,985 57,403
June, 1910.. 10,281 10,281 67.654
Dec., 1910.. 4,117 4,117 71,801
June, 1911.. 4,498 4,498 76,299
Twelve months or so back it seemed as though this
co. might turn over a new leaf; but nothing hap-
pened, as usual, for nothing happens easier than
anything else. The trouble was that a man who
owned no live stock had inherited some shares; and
though these shares represented an interest in a co.


Skilled Organisation
Brings Success.
Expert management to-day accounts for
businesses quickly taking the lead, caus-
ing chagrin to competitors. The “live”
concern, ever ready to improve, pro-
gresses. Half-hearted, misguided methods
invariably bring failure. We’ll skilfully
and successfully work your company,
float your undertaking, and arrange for
subdivision and selling of your suburban
or country estate. We also act as Trus-
tees and Attorneys under power. Call.
Telephone—Central 2437.
J. Earle Hermann Ltd.
(CAPITAL £150,000).
J. EARLE HERMANN, Managing Director.
B. J. McDOUGALL, Sec.
Imperial Building's,
16 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
KYNOCH
SUCTION OAS
Engines & Plants
HIGHEST ECONOMY,
HIGHEST EFFICIENCY,
ABSOLUTE RELIABILITY.
Full Particulars at
KYNOCH LTD., 90 William St., Melbourne
KYNOCH, Brisbane j JAS. HARDIE & CO., Sydney;
McCLEN & CO., Adelaide ; MALLOCH BBOS .Perth^
Every engineer in charge of factories and mills
should give close attention to the power wasted in
transmission of power. The Hyatt Flexible ltoller
Bearings save 20 per cent, power and 75 per cent,
of oil, so one of the first duties is naturally for
engineers to direct their special attention to these
bearings and to car boxes for trucks. Hyatts are
in continuous use in Cement Works, Ore Dressing
Mills, Factories, etc., in Australia. Bushings of
flexible rollers may be applied to loose pulleys or
truck wheels, etc. Should engineers require further
details, they can apply to the Australian Agents,
W. & J. Lempriere, Melbourne; or E. W, Hurst-
house and Co., of Wellington, the agents in Ne"'
Zealand.*
Ferrodor Paint —specially manufactured for pre-
serving iron and steel. Unaffected by sea air, sul-
phur fumes and cyanogen gases. Used on the Princes
and Victoria bridges, and large quantities supplied
to the Mount Lyell. Broken Hill Proprietary, Walla-
roo and Colonial Sugar Companies for ironwork and
roofs. Ironwork of N.S.W. State Governor’s resi-
dence at Moss Vale painted with Ferrodor, and also
ordered by A. A. Dangar, Esq., of N.S.W., for roofs
of his Baroona homestead, Singleton, and all station
properties. Supplied in all colors in paste or ready
mixed, lcwt. covers 1100 square yards. Write for
particulars to sole agents, William Adams and Co.,
Ltd., of Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, and Perth.*
The undisputed benefit of asbestos covering for
steam-pipes and boilers has been exemplified by a re-
cent scientific treatise of the principles of steam
conveyance. Tests made have established the fact
that 100 square feet of pipe covered with this
material, at a pressure of 2001 b. per square inch, and
coal at 16s. per ton, will save £7 per year, and
prevent loss of pressure equal to 13.81 B. Th. U. per
square foot per minute. Bell’s Asbestos Non-con-
ducting Composition, supplied in cwt. bags, or
applied by experienced workmen at contract rates.
Bell’s Asbestos, Ltd., 315 Kent Street, Sydney.*
Professor Richards, in the revised edition of his
celebrated edition of “Ore Dressing,” 1909, devotes
14 pages to the Wilfley concentrating table, and,
among other things remarks (p. 1465): “The first
table sold was installed in the Puzzle Mill, at Breck-
enridge, Colorado. Since then over 12,000 have been
sold. This machine has revolutionised ore-dressing,
and as such is a phenomenal success. The original
form, and forerunner of all modern shaking tables
with longitudinal riffles . . has been greatly improv-
ed.” And further on (p. 1478) remarks: “One feature
of the Wilfley table to which especial attention should
be called is its ability to separate sands frorn slimes
while making the ordinary concentration. This sep-
aration is more complete and thorough than can be
made by any classifier, and should be taken advant-
age of in designing mills.” In the extensive addi-
tions just made to the Golden Horseshoe Mine (W.A.)
a large number of Wilfley Concentrators have been
installed. The Austral Otis Engineering Company,
Limited, South Melbourne, have the sole manufac-
turing rights.*
» * * *
Extract from the Saturday Review, January 7,
1911: —“Insurance: A Colonial Mutual Departure.
—Policies, combining life or endowment as-
surance with other benefits are gradually
coming into favor. Their popularity seems to be
justified. Why should one be compelled to take out
two or more policies when several risks can just as
easily be covered under a single contract? It was
a consideration of this kind that some short time ago
impelled the Board of The Colonial Mutual Life
Assurance Society to introduce in Australasia a com-
bined Life, Accident and Sickness policy, and as the
experiment was attended by a most welcome increase
in New Business, it was recently decided to extend
the issue to the United Kingdom. There were evi-
dently sound reasons for the departure. Neither life
nor endowment assurance policies afford quite the full
protection needed by most persons, because no pro-
vision is made for accident or sickness that do not
end fatally Regarded as a whole, this new
policy possesses many attractions. It is decidedly
cheap, and will appeal to those who cannot afford
to disburse large sums yearly in the form of insurance
premiums.”* # ,
PIONEER WOOD PIPE represents a powerful
combination of qualities—economy with durability.
All charges on Wood Pipe are lighter than on metal
pipe, and it is practically everlasting. Catalogue
may be had from the Australian Wood Pipe Co.,
Ltd., Balmain, Sydney.*
* * * *
Mine Managers, Engineers. —Do you want a first-
class Pneumatic Tool, Machine, or an Air Com-
pressor. Ask for the NILES. BOHLER BROS. AND
CO., LTD., 1 Angel Place, Pitt Street, Sydney, and
183'Queen Street, Melbourne, will provide you with
it. Also with Castings, solid and hollow Miners’
Drill Steel, Cast Steel for all purposes, Motor-car
Steels, Tools, etc.* # ,
F. DANVERS POWER, mining engineer, is pre-
pared to purchase* approved MINING properties. Ad-
dress: National Mutual Chambers, Pitt and Bond
Streets, Sydney.* ,
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so, write
to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address, 163 King Street, Sydney ,
and 9 Queen Street, Melbourne.* ’- 2
* * * *
The Bolinder Oil Engine, which is Known as the
simplest and most easily managed of all oil engines,
is now represented throughout Australia by Babcock
and Wilcox Ltd., Haymarket, Sydney. The advant-
ages of the Bolinder are small consumption of oil,
ease of starting, no. complicated arrangement of
valves, and autcmatic lubrication, and these are testi-
fied to bv Australian users. The engine is made by
a firm who have manufactured oil engines for 25
years, and comes from a factory with an output of
1500 engines per annum.* [1
* * * *
One of the oldest and best-known engineering con-
cerns in the Commonwealth has been converted into
a proprietary company, with a capital of £150,000,
and will now trade as Mephan Ferguson Proprietary,
Limited, the governing directors being Mephan Fer-
guson and Robert Shand. The head office and works
are at Gordon Street, Footscray, Victoria.*
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign Patents obtained.
Coldison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Melbourne, and
Adelaide. Thirty years' practice. Write us for In-
ventors’ Guide.*
* * * *
Assayers, Mine Managers, and Prospectors
write to H. B. Silberberg and Co., 443 Bourke
Street, Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining
requisites and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc
pulverisers to 200 mesh; hand sample grinders to
120 mesh; Ainsworth’s assay balances sensitive to
1/13000 grain; prospector’s balances to 1/1000
grain ; weight; pocket transits; gasoline combination
furnaces ; Morgan’s crucibles; chemicals ; etc.*
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire .
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
with very valuable properties, they returned him
nothing, because the co. pays no dividend, and doesn t
want to. Its object in life is to make the public
bid up for its meat. If the co. went into the
market, and competed on even terms with other
buyers, nobody could complain ; but, instead of doing
that, it gets from the bulk of the big stock-raisers
a rebate of id. per lb., so it can afford to bid (say)
£8 for a beast for which it knows it can only afford
to pay £7 12s. 6d. But if the public wants that
beast, then the public has not only to bid, but to
actually pay, more than £B. The public is there-
fore bidding all the time against a fictitious bid;
and that’s liow it pays the shareholders in this co.,
who are mostly big stock-owners, to own shares that
don’t yield a dividend. In fact, if this co. made a
big profit, it would prove that it hadn’t bid high
enough for what it had bought, and, therefore,
hadn’t compelled the public to bid high enough for
what the latter had been obliged to buy. So it hap-
pens that the less profit this co. makes, the better
service it does as a rule for its shareholders. Alto-
gether it is a beautiful scheme, developed 38 years
ago, and continued w\th great success ever since.
The N.S.W. Under-Secretary for Mines
has written a report, advising the Minister that the
proposed export duty on crude ore wouldn’t be good
for the mining industry. The Under-Sec. apparently
thinks that Australia ought to go on digging up its
irreplaceable metals, and sending them to Germany
and elsewhere to have the dirt taken out of them at
foreign works, provided by foreign capital and
manned by foreign labor. The Australian workman
may cost a few shillings more per week; and the
Under-Sec.’s idea is that the mine-owner might con-
sequently have to pay a few shillings more per ton
if the job were done in Australia. The national ad-
vantages of having the job done in Australia, where
it would profitably employ both labor and capital,
don’t appeal to the department. Old George Dibbs
ran up against such a one-eyed view 20 years ago,
when he talked of putting an import duty on coke.
“Ruinous!” screeched the one-eyed man. “You’ll
make coke expensive, and that will make smelting
expensive, and the mine-owner and the miner will
have to pay for it.” But George Dibbs said “Rats!”
or something similar, and put on the duty. At
that time the Australian smelters were paying over
£4 10s. per ton for coke. The N.S.W. Statistical
Register for 1890 shows that in that year 38,174
tons of coke, valued at £192,503, was imported into
N.S.W. —an average of over £5 per ton, including
freight, of course. Last year the Mines Department
annual report shows that, Dibbs’s duty having estab-
lished the industry, the output had grown to 282,337
tons, valued at 13s. sd. per ton. Consequently, ore
which couldn’t be looked at 20 years ago, is now
being smelted at a profit. The duty may have in-
creased the costs a trifle for a few months, but, after
that, it has reduced them for all time. Moreover,
Australian workmen have the coke-making job, which
formerly was done in Belgium or Germany or Wales;
and presently the Commonwealth will start to pro-
duce the valuable by-products of coal, and thus have
employment for a further few thousand men and de-
fenders.
It may be admitted at once that the Australian
smelter can’t, at this moment, compete with the
foreigner. If he could, he wouldn’t want the export
duty. Also, it may be admitted that if the Aus-
tralian mine-owner has to give Australia the job of
smelting Australian ores and refining Australian
metals, he may for a while be out of pocket—unless,
of course, the Government adds a bonus, which the
smelter will pass back to the producer. But what is
going to happen to the Australian miner if the two
or three Australian smelters are closed up? What
is going to happen if the foreigner gets the Aus-
tralian smelting in his own hands? Especially
what is going to happen to the little men—the
owners of the small shows which produce only a few
tons of ore per week or month —the men who want
prompt cash for the stuff to pay the grocer’s bill?
And, anyway, Australia wants its metals. It at
least wants the chance to have first bid for them.
Until the other day, if it wanted a ton of zinc,
though it was producing more zinc ore than any
other country in the world, it had to send to America
or Europe for the goods. It probably bought its
own zinc—after the stuff had had a voyage to Bel-
gium or Germany and back again. Naturally, that
was a handicap on Australian manufactures. The
Commonwealth uses a good deal of copper wire; the
G.P.O. and the railways and the electricians want
it. Australia is; one of the world’s big copper pro-
ducers, and Germany greedily takes its copper on
account of the high conductivity of much of the
metal. Yet, Australia is buying “German” copper-
wire—probably its own copper, drawn by German
workmen in German factories, and burdened with the
cost of an utterly unnecessary voyage up and down
the earth. In these days a nation can’t command
greatness unless it commands metals ; and by passing
on its ores to foreigners Australia not only loses the
command of the metals itself, but hands it over for
the sake of a few temporary pence to the trade rivals
of to-day, and the possible enemies of to-morrow.
And for the sake of those few temporary pence, the
N.S.W. “Departmental report” says things shouldn’t
be interfered with. The Bulletin trusts that the
N.S.W. Mines Department is proud of its report.
* * * *
General-manager Freeman’s estimates of
the reserves in the Harden (N.S.W.) have always
been exceeded ; and though, going on the old prac-
tice, he reported 9539 tons, worth 60s. per ton, as at
June 30, he added: “It is extremely probable that
the stopes now working will yield not less than
12,000 tons, representing 12 months’ crushing and a
profit of not less than £10,000.” In addition, there
are the low-grade bodies in the Harden Central; “so
that, even should No. 6 level prove disappointing, it
is felt that supplies for the mill are assured for at
least two years.” Shareholders cannot, however,
rely on handling the £lO,OOO. No. 5 level has been
a complete and to open up No. 6 will cost a
good deal of money. As at June 30 there was only
£589 in hand, so the money for the work at the
lower level must be earned; and that work is indis-
pensable if the mine is to be given a chance to have
a future. It is a gamble, of course; yet Freeman
says “there has been no alteration in the geological
features of the reef or the enclosing rock,” so “there
is no reason why payable makes of ore should not
recur.” It is to be hoped they will, for the mine
has been most honestly worked by people who have
had no eye to spare for the share market.
* * * *
Things at Meekatharra (W.A.) could be
bettered. In one or two instances the expenditure
of a couple of months’ surplus in plant and extra de-
velopment would effect a substantial saving in
costs; yet shareholders buck at the idea of going
without dividends for even a month, so things are
allowed to remain as they are. What ought to hap-
pen is the amalgamation of the producing mines on
the main line into one, or perhaps, two groups.
Such cos. would earn more money for everyone, and,
besides, the field would get a better advt.
Fenian (W.A.) ranks as Meekatharra’s
most prolific gold producer. Its lode matter is dis-
torted and twisted in a most remarkable manner,
and resembles somewhat that found in the Ivalgoorlie
mines. A month or two ago a report got into circu-
lation that the bottom level was sick, but a look at
it shows that there is no truth in the yarn. io
date, Fenian shareholders, who number less than
half a dozen, have received £106,000 in dividends.
* * * *
In a managerial report dated June 30
Boulder Perseverance’s ore reserves are estimated at:
Actual, 504,695 tons, assaying 265. per ton; prob-
able, 277,280 tons, assaying 20s. 4d. ; total, 781,975
tons averaging 245. Compared with the estimate
for the previous half-year the figures show an in-
crease of 9761 tons, and a decrease in value of 3d.
per ton. Now that expenditure on broken ore ac-
count has been reduced to a nominal sum, more at-
tention is being devoted to exploratory work. So
far, however, results have been nothing to get ex-
cited about. _
* * * *
Gold Industry of W.A., Ltd., has got rid
of its 40,000 Bullfinches at an average of about 15s.
apiece, and gone in for 38,000 paid Bullrushes in-
stead. An “unsatisfactory market” and “other cir-
cumstances” are the reasons given for quitting the
former stock. In view of the exuberant announce-
ment at the last meeting; that £2 per share had
been refused for the lot, shareholders must feel like
sympathising with the dog that bit at the shadow
and lost the substance. As a sort of consolation, it
is intended to refund shareholders 10s. per share
capital at the next meeting, conditionally on the co.
having the right to call it up again if required.
Kyarra (W.A.), over which the Bullrush
Co. has an option, and in which it owns an eighth
share to go on with, has a peculiar appearance.
Principal workings are on two irregular shoots,
shaped something like the letter S, and having a
proved length of 70ft. and 40ft. respectively. They
do not appear to have any connection, but further
work may prove that they have, and that a fault is
responsible for the break. In all, about 700 tons
have been dug out by the prospectors, for a return of
19000 z., and the value of what has been exposed
since is said to be all right. Nothing has so far
been done below 35ft., but the option-holder pro-
poses to sink a little deeper should inducements
warrant.
* * * *
Chunderloo (W.A.), on which the Bull-
finch South is spending some money, appears to have
a chance. There are about 250 tons of ore, esti-
mated to assay 13dwt., lying on the surface, and
underground there is probably an additional 6000
tons exposed above water level. Copper is showing
in the ore, but this obstacle can, it is asserted, be
payably overcome by concentration.
The work done in the Queen of the Hills
(W.A.) forcibly illustrates what an enterprising co.
like the Orova Exploration can manage when it
takes its coat off. Over 6000 ft. of development has
been done out of capital on a rare and rather sus-
picious-looking formation, and now a lot more cash
is being planked down for power and treatment
plant. The probable profit in sight is estimated at
£102,000, and when crushing starts, an output of
£5OOO or more a month is expected. A big body of
ore has already been proved to a depth of 250 ft.,
and if it goes down the Queen of the Hills must
bulge out into something big. But a lot depends on
the “if.”
* * * *
The Murex Magnetic treatment plant re-
cently ordered by the Whim Well Copper Co.
(W.A.) is on the water, and is expected to start
operations early next year. #
Wodgina’s (W.A.) new find of lode tin
promises to be something out of the Ordinary. Least-
ways, local reports say so. Practically nothing has
been done so far to prove the extent of the deposit,
but wherever there is an outcrop, rich stuff can be
seen. A Straits Settlement co. has taken an option
over some of the best ground, and its expert has just
gone back to Singapore to report. The arrival of
some natives at Wodgina, with specimens of shed
tin, is stated to have led to the discovery of the lode.
Norseman (W.A.) badly wants some addi-
tional means of support. All its old-time props are
either bent or broken, and now the Mararoa, on
which it has leaned for some years, is causing con-
cern. It was thought that diamond-drilling in the
bottom at 600 ft. (underlay) might help matters,
but so far it hasn’t, and the prospects are not pro-
mising. This co. has lately acquired the adjoining
Esperanza, a 12-acre lease, which the manager be-
lieves will prove “a valuable acquisition.”
. * * * *
Dreadful reflections are thrown on some
Westralian Boards by the price of their shares. Take
South Kalgurli, for instance. Its cash resources are
worth Bs. per share. On the mine itself there is a
plant in full work, and a reserve of ore which will
give assured employment for several years, at a
profit of (say) £20,000 a year. Moreover, pros-
pects are good so far as deeper ore is concerned.
Yet the shares stand at Bs. 6d —that is, sixpence for
the mine, its ore, plant and prospects. The Associ-
ated Northern is another: it actually has more cash
in hand than the total market value of its shares.
But the public knows that the directors of
Westralian cos. have the habit of “investing” cash
in mysterious ancient mines in Mexico, and such
like, only holding on to enough to assure the pay-
ment of fees and a flutter in the market now and
again. The Westralian Government is now taking a
hand in the game, and will impose an income tax
instead of a dividend tax. This will take a share of
the profits as they are reported, so there won’t be
the present inducement for cos. to accumulate profits
from year to year, and then “blew” them on some
foreign wild-cat. #
The owners of the Collie Burn coal-mine
(W.A.) have tried to settle the troubles with their
miners in a new way. “Take the mine,” they say
in effect; “you work it and manage it, and well
handle the outmit on a commission basis.” The
owners (Splatt, Wall and Co.), of course, keep some
interest in the property ; but, no matter how big his
interest, one shareholder isn’t to have a bigger say
in the co. than any other shareholder. But the
scheme hasn’t met with general approval, by any
means. ,
Mount Morgan (Q.) is supposed on the
figures to have done better in September than it did
in August; nevertheless we get a candid admission
that matte had to be sent to Port Kembla (N.S.W.).
Last month 316 tons, containing 40 tons copper and
4460 z. gold, were shipped, and at the end of the
month there remained on hand 655 tons of matte,
containing 82 tons copper and 9280 z. gold. Ship-
ping matte, carrying only from 12 to 13 p.c. copper,
must be poor business. Great Cobar, to cope with a
similar trouble —low-grade matte —had to put in
reverberatory furnaces to raise the matte to con-
verter grade; but Mount Morgan hopes to escape
that expense by increasing the blowing power.
Until the result of that experiment is known, we
shall not be able to say much about the big mine s
probable future costs. #
Charters Towers feels better than f° r some
time past. Mills’ United has taken out £59,937
worth of gold this year, while its neighboi,
New Brilliant Freehold, gets ahead of that with
£60,591. The Freehold is out with another Is. divi-
dend, and its shares are a bit fir ™® r n £ eca f “ se s ° f ch th a
Brilliant Deeps’ development at 2540 ft., tor sucn a
strong reef as the one in the Deeps may have a
chance of reaching the Freehold’s boundary. Bn-
liant Stockholm cleaned up £3421 worth °f »
few days since; this included £1023 from the bat-
tery plates, leaving £2218 as a return from 00l
tons of stone. There are 260,000 shares, and Day
Dawn developments in the old Brilliant lease are as
yet somewhat indefinite. Brilliant Extended made
a profit of £3318 last month; 4280 tons of stone
gave £B4OB, and 3600 tons of tailings £1839 ,
total revenue, £10,247. The profit ( £3318) only
allows 325. per ton for costs, which is ss. sd. less
than the last half-yearly average.
* * * *
Brilliant Deeps crushed 103 tons from No.
4 level for 2760 z. This crushing was obtained in
driving 30ft., so the reef is breaking about. 3 $ tons
per foot. No. 4 is at 2540 ft. vertical. When first
struck the reef was divided into hanging-wall and
footwall sections, each side carrying 2ft. of quartz
and much mineral, with a few leaders in the forma-
tion between the two sections. This development is
a long way east of the old workings over No. 1
level. The stopes over No. 1 level are still turning
out small quantities of stone from a reef sloping up-
wards towards the boundary of the Brilliant Blocks.
The future depends to a large extent on the down-
ward continuation of the rich shoot of stone below
No. 4. This can be tested by bringing m another
crosscut to a deeper level; the shaft is deep enough
to allow of this.
» * * *
Gilmore’s (N.Q.) realised £1904 on its
crushing of 200 tons of ore. After paying the
August accounts, there was £4124 in the till.
Prospecting is to go on, and deeper levels are to be
explored. Unfortunately, there isn t a deep tin
mine thereabouts, and Smith’s Creek, which did
some sinking on a big formation, has recently sold
part of its boiler plant to the Vulcan. #
Hampden-Cloncurry (Q.), for a run of
three months, smelted 7409 tons ore for 2068 tons
matte, estimated to contain: Copper ils tons, gold
6970 z„ and silver 99660 z., or from £5 to £6 per
ton. September gave 757 tons matte, containing 268
tons copper, 2660 z. gold, and 36250 z. silver. fine
most encouraging feature is the improvement in the
grade of matte produced. Development is not dis-
closing anything wonderful at the Hampden; there
is a good deal of low-grade ore, but it is heavily
charged with silica, and concentration is already
talked about. A short shoot of rich ore has been
developed at the 550 ft. level in the Duchess mine,
and a rise at 260 ft. north has holed through to the
winze sunk from the 400 ft. level, proving ore for a
depth of 150 ft. This development makes the
Duchess the deepest mine on payable ore m Glon-
curry. # *
Great Fitzroy (Q.) has put its recon-
structed mill on a trial run, and got the very good
extraction of 81 p.c. of the copper and 65 p.c. ot the
gold. If it can work up to that, the management
expects to show a small working profit this month.
One way and another most things went wrong last
month, and the co. drifted to leeward another £l2OO.
Toole, of the New Langi Logan, has done
his duty to the Poseidon Alluvial, though the market
takes his statements sadly. Long since The Bulletin
warned people that the results got from drives in
wash-dirt were often as misleading as a footpad s
pitch. At the Main Leads they soared high, but
when panelling came to be done in bulk, black hat-
bands became fashionable. On the other hand, the
Cathcart had no gold showing in the wash drives,
yet stoping furnished big returns. Still, Poseidon
shareholders would persist in backing the drive re-
sults, and they now shudder over the lower averages
facing them. Up the lead the run of gold is narrow
down the gutter the wash is wet and the ground
heavy. Toole wants more work put in down the lead ,
he orders water rises and development generally.
Failing that, costs will run up, and there may have
to be S a contraction of operations. With a narrow
cutter, and narrower runs of gold, 1000 ft. of panel-
ling ground ahead isn’t enough reserves; so Poseidon
Alluvial will have to go in for more vigorous develop-
ment if it is to keep up its pace. #
Victoria Proprietary, Bendigo, held what
promised to be a most gentlemanly meeting in
London, on September 5. All was Yf ry P?V te ™
the chairman had finished his speech, which was a
conglomerate of “extensive development, decreased
ore ” “miles of excavation, and Mr. Cundy (who
had evidently told him things were very promising
indeed ”) Then a shareholder mildly suggested in a
wake-up-England tone that, seeing there was a loss
of £6394 for the year, the result was unsatisfac
tory and the directors’ and secretary s fees should
be at once reduced. You could then hear the babel
down in Hans Irvine’s cellars, 300 yards away.
What, indeed, would mining be without respect-
able” Boards of directors in London? #
Daylesford (Vic.) mines for two months
show up thus:- August September.
Tons. Oz. Tons. Oz.
1350 517 • • 1150 450
Frenchman’s .. • • ||s 1 64 ! ! 300 80
North Nuggetty ‘ ' 933 1437 . . 963 1451
« y biie A e jax :: “8 "8 W “8 ft
The average of looks better than it really
is If North Nuggetty be blotted out, there is a fa
to under 0 Bdwt. gg No?th Nuggetty shines the more
dazzlingly because it can thump a 3s. div. on tne
table with the promise of more to follow. It now
appears as one of the three div.-payers of the
More stamps are to be added to tne parteiy,
to Churn out still better divs., but he is wise who
a. thp flittin 0 * of the early birds. Properly the
show should 1 belong to the
SS™'’■£? Mdi «hL“t ‘2? d ? tad
are both Slipping down to lower grade stone. As
to -inesoutrtd u e Agx
district because of its surprises and the vim of the
dealing whenever a bit of gold is seen.
* * *
The Oriental battery, Stawell (Vic.), has
passed into the possession of Sloane and Scotchman s
Co through a deal by which more capital has been
~ 0- ’ Ju, /Ifr, the property, in exchange for the
shares lying in the office. Another 10-head is to be
installed together with Wilfley concentrators and
an Edwards roasting furnace, to deal with the
mineral in which most of the gold is contained. A
cvanide plant will form part of the outfit, and,
when the improvements are effected, the ore body
in Sloane’s will be given a chance to show whether
it is high-grade enough to warrant development. At
present th! stone is undoubtedly on the low-grade
side- but if the coming outfit will only provide a
margin over working expenses, there is always a big
chance in country like Stawell of stumbling on a
rich patch. At any rate, if Sloane’s can prove their
deep-ground stone profitable, that, and the profitable
operations of Wilkinson and Co. on the oxidised ore
further along the Big Hill line will supply a much-
needed stimulus to mining m Stawell.
* * *
The Lyell miners are sticking to White,
and insist on his reinstatement as a sine qua non.
The directors say he was a trespasser, who broke a
rule and, as discipline must be maintained, they
won’t reinstate him. The question is: Did the men
know of the rule against trespass? Did White know
of the rule ? If not, then the offence wasn t deliber-
ate and the directors might well take a middle
course by offering the man employment somewhere
else.
The prospectors from Daylesford (Vic.)
who sailed out to the Pacific Islands, to pick up
the gold left at Guadalcanar by the old Sydney
syndicate, won’t vouch for the gold, as not a trace
was obtainable. So they advise the co. to reincar-
nate itself, and buy a cocoanut plantation.
* * * *
Bananaland still produces its rich
“pockets.” The other day a bit of a hole was sunk
in a stockyard near Pentland, on the Northern line,
and £429 worth of gold was dollied. And, at the
Boreas mine, on the Etheridge, £648 was gouged
out of a mullocky leader.


Charles Heidsieck
\ Good Condition and
always FIRST
R°B“R
My doct-ah told ms to be
dcv-lish careful what 1 drink,
and so l nev-ah take anything
now but tea —Ro-bah tea! —
a little of the very best is always
good enough fo-ah me, and
having found out that those
analyst chappies pre-fah Ro-bah
tea to any other, 1 take jolly
good care that 1 drink Ro-bah
too, don’t-cher-see.
My landlady says she can’t
always afford to buy the No. 1
Grade Ro-bah expressly fo-ah
me, but 1 kick up a bally row
if she gives me any other —
and so you see she has to get
it and jolly good tea it is,
don’t-cher-k row.
The Johnnie.
QUALITY—BUCHANAN WHISKY
“BLACK & WHITE.”
A
WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, October 9, 1911.
My Dear Arini. —
Staniforth Smith, the Papuan Adminis-
trator, who was massacred a few months
ago, came to Sydney by the Van Waewyck
last week. For a man who has been kiiled
and eaten, he is in astonishingly good con-
dition, and is looking forward with quite
improper glee to a six months’ rush to
Europe, and then a rush back through the
Philippines. As a matter of fact, he con-
firms the report that the news of his mas-
sacre was exaggerated. Arriving in Sydney
on Mondav. after a strenuous four years
in Papua, Mr. Smith drank in the sight of
the Eight Hour crowd, and then scurried off
to book seats at the theatre for every spare
hour he had in Sydney. But booking-
offices, in these piping times of prosperity,
can t do much even for Administrators who
have been massacred and eaten by cannibals
in half the papers of the Empire, and Stani-
forth Smith had only drawn a succession of
blanks, when Rupert Clarke dug him out and
heard of his tribulations. After that all
was front stalls and private boxes till
Wednesday evening, when the big, bronzed
corpse, who has been doing things for Aus-
tralia in its great, undeveloped Possession,
rushed, to Melbourne to talk Papua with
the Minister, before continuing the flight
Europewards.
The G.-G. Denmans’ first garden party
was filled with salvia, sweet-scented stocks,
fresh air, new chiffons and “society” man-
ner* The old zoological methods of driving
the wild animals into a gravel patch outside
the iron gates, letting them in under careful
supervision, and heading them off in twos
for the vice-regal finger, was revised with
good results. The kangaroo drive was less
obvious to the eye. Society and others
paced through the main hall, mobilised in
the ballroom, and were hand-spiked in a
variegated manner by Chamberlain Nevill
(who has mislaid his memory for faces), and
with frank civility by the sporting Gee-Gee
Denman.
The Kangaroos browsed on the lower lawn
to the tinkle of teacups, and the cheerful
blare of a brass band. Uniforms were
sprinkled amongst the chiffons of the fair,
and the elderly and fat did themselves well
in purple and fine lace.
Blue and dove-grey gowns fought tussore
for pride of place at the G.-G.’s fresh-air
parade. Mrs. Harry Levy crossed a patch of
green lawn in a frock of periwinkle blue
that bolted from all other blues in the height,
depth and acreage of its lovely floral garni-
ture. Miss Quirk, with the willowy waist
which the novelist prefers for his best girls,
was like a slender pink and white hollyhock
with a touch of black on its graceful head.
Mrs. Brennan joined the tussore fray, while
daughter Adfele, garbed in white, showed one
of this season’s tight little posy bouquets at
her waist.
The new bow—of the Madame Butterfly
religion—waggled a cheerful gleam of
pink silk over the good-looking white frills
of the youthful Mrs. David Maughan. The
lady’s male parent, Edmund Barton, got
down from his Hiah Court nest for the
recent revels, and looked brisk and hearty at
the great Government House kangaroo
drive, where 2000 heads and tails are said
to have frisked round the outer edge of the
new Gee-Gee.
He-fashion says: “Be beautiful in your
socks and lily-of-the-valley in your button-
hole.” Mr. Alfred Nathan was emphati-
cally both at a recent Gee-Gee entertain-
ment, where the azure flutter of muslin worn
by Mrs. Alfred, and the Tyrian blue sheen
of silk that garbed Mrs. Sam Hordern, were
attractive counterblasts to the all-grey-satin
girls.
Shakspeare, in fragments, tramped round
the Town Hall, at St. Vincent’s bail, in
search of prize money, and Mr. Colin
Hughes, as Julius Caesar, got away with the
hve guineas presented by Mrs. Scot Skir-
ling, to the owner of the best fancy togs.
Julius Caesar Hughes was a credit to his
millinery, and, with the pretty Rosalind
(Miss Nell Riley), who snatched another
prize, stamped up to be inspected by the
Excellencies and their battle bri-
gade. The warriors were unarmed, and
wore the blue-edged livery of the Govern-
ment House staff, gold sticks in waiting, or
official quill-drivers, etc., and occupied an
impregnable position on the vice-regal dais.
His Ex. made himself agreeable to all-
comers. Her Ex. flashed the sheen of old-
gold satin, under a glorified fichu of black
and gold, with two long tails behind. Lady
Barttelot, in soft dark draperies, danced
with Sir John Fuller (a Victorian loan ex-
FypV) • Mrs. T. H. Kelly got round the
official hop with Baronet Walter Barttelot.
Mr. T. H. Kelly retired to a corner as King
Lear, being obliterated by a sorrowful beard,
nn oyer-mantel, and leg trimmings lashed
with fancy rope lattice-work.
Mrs. Kenna, as Desdemona (unsmoth-
ered), tripped round the ballroom with her
coffee-berry, Othello (Mr. Cecil Riley), and
the Merry Wives of Windsor trailed at the
heels of Falstaff (Dr. R. Davies), one of
the best-dressed persons who nibbled at
khMispeare in the cause of charity. Fal-
staff s Indy friends must have been incurable
optimists, for their top-heavy millinery and
bandaged chins were indexed by Will 'Shak-
speare as “merry.” Mrs. P. Quinn was in
charge of flags, vegetable matter and other
decorative trimmings of St. Vincent’s ball.
Shylock, rather down at the heel, shambled
round the ballroom, with the forlorn manner
that marks his exit from the argument with
Portia.
“Althea” —Her Plaint: —
A feature of the St. Vincent’s ball was a City
Council employee who lurked on the main staircase
leading to the galleries, and shooed off any dancers
who essayed to come that way. His alleged instruc-
tions were to see that “the public” advanced on the
galleries via the stairway, while the dancers clam-
bered there by means of the organ loft. It seems a
sufficiently imbecile arrangement, even assuming that
there was a likelihood of the gallery frequenters
being crowded out by a rush of people from the
floor of the hall. Considering that there was always
room both upstairs and down for an additional regi-
ment —not to say army—of revellers, the thing as-
sumed the dimensions .of a wild joke. Long after
the galleries were practically bare and the ball-room
reft of all but keen dancing-enthusiasts, the City
Council’s weird servitor held the fort, and firmly
pushed people back who tried to pass him, whether
going up or down. Undoubtedly, one of the reasons
for the growing unwillingness of the public to roll
up satisfactorily to Town Hall shows is the un-
couthly tactless conduct of the baser order of at-
tendant. The citizen who has paid good money for
the temporary use of the hall and environs resents
being treated, when he gets there, in the spirit in
which a traffic constable treats a riotous bottle-oh;
and it is natural that he should.
The Ragged Schools were at home in the
Y.M.C.A. Hall the other afternoon, when
Sir John Kirk, who specialises in London’s
numerous rags—as worn by its illimitable
submerged millions —was welcomed to these
sunlit shores by the S. M. Herald Knight,
the admirable King-Hall, Archbishop
Wrighteous and other worthy citizens who
take a hand in filling up the half-clad juven-
ile with hot soup, illuminated texts and
arithmetic.
Sir John Kirk’s visit to these prosperous
parts may be worth another dab of white-
wash to this continent, when it’s blackened
on the other side. “I am now aware,” said
the Ragged Knight, “that Australia wants
her vacant places filled with young men and
women, healthy both in mind and body.”
'Now” presupposes that formerly this visitor
believed in the bad old scheme of filling up
Australia with physical derelicts, remittance
men, unwanted relatives of Britain’s peerage
and other public nuisances.
The husband of the “Society” missus in
this patch knows his place, which is oblivion
and the business end of a cheque book. The
Australian Patman is taking off his coat to
fight the U.S. citizen for the job of being the
‘best husband on earth.” In Sydney the
male bird of means usually roosts in the
background, hops down to provide the lady-
bird with worms, cash, etc., buries his head
under his wing, and never struts beside his
mate in public. Peering over the barbed-
wire fence which hedged in the recent “So-
ciety” scrap, I fancied the Kookaburra was
wiping the Eagle’s eye in the matter of
generally effaced.”
GUSTAV SLAPOTTSKI,
Now conducting at Her Majesty's Melbourne , for
the Irving Co.
Mrs. Philip Morton gave a vast supper-
party to Government Housers and others at
the Australia, on Saturday night. The meal
was served at a number of small tables in
the drawing-room. Each table held eight
feeders and was more profusely and brilli-
antly decorated than the next.
One of the Powerful men stood his friends
a small-and-early dance on the same even-
ing. It was timed to finish at such an hour
as would permit of people getting back to
the Morton supper, and to another outsize
repast of the .same sort tendered by some
members of the White clan. However, it
didn’t; and belated supper-seekers trailed
into the Australia at all hours of the night.
By the way, the big Castlereagh-street
hostelry deserves a free advt. for the im-
provement that has taken place in its cook-
ing. A year or so back, a dinner or supper at
the Australia was by no means the sort of
thing that the discerning eater rushed.
Lately, the place has bucked up wondrously,
and as good an “ordered” meal is to be got
there now as at any restaurant in Australia.
The Australian Club Ball was less
crowded than functions of the sort generally
are. Long before supper the throng had so
thinned that all who fancied dancing on the
truly awful Town Hall floor had ample
space for the laborious business. The more
one sees of these affairs, the more inexplica-
ble it is that the two big clubs don’t put the
profits of a couple of their balls into the pur-
chase of an adjustable floor for the Town
Hall—one which would be more resilient
than concrete and less bumpy and grimy and
splinter-infested than a wood-blocked street
The decorations weren’t so effective as of
yore. There were lots of them, but the pink
and red flowers clashed. A cherry-blossom
color-scheme of some years back showed the
wranglmg-place of our civic fathers at its
best. Clothed in delicate pink as with a
garment, the angular old edifice looked on
that occasion almost beautiful.
Mrs. Lyell (Melb.), who walks up and down
the face of the earth for pleasure—when so
disposed—crossed over from the Cabbage
Patch to have a look in at Randwick’s horse-
play. As one of the delightful feminine
persons who don’t worry as to which end of
a horse meets the judge’s eye first, Mrs.
Lyell enjoyed every minute of a race in
which her own money cantered in last.
The flower-like beauty of the first race
day frills wasn’t so much in evidence at
Saturday’s final flutter. Some of the films
of lace, muslin, or other inflammable gear
were draped with microscopic panniers of
black lace round the hips. Mrs. Herbert
Marks was garnished with one of these lace
fancies, over flesh-pink chiffons.
The silk bow that gets into the decorative
business in any portion of the female back
view wanders on to the stern of the new
hat-bonnets, and flaunts its huge ears on
the nape of the neck, when it isn’t sitting
down in comfort on the lady’s waist line.
The winged fowl is not confined to Lohen-
grin’s lair on the Scheldt, and Lady Den-
man’s head flew the better half of a white
cockatoo at Saturday’s dress fray. The
Napoleon brand of millinery is another chal-
lenge to the male person who has long lost
his copyright in nearly every rag he
possesses. The cocked hat. worn with dis-
cretion on an eyrie of well-groomed locks,
is rather a dashing affair, and Mrs. Steer
Bowker and Mrs. W. G. McArthur tossed
two upstanding Napoleons at one race-week
revel, with immediate success.
Mrs. Phil Morton, at Randwick, on Sat-
day, in a yard or two of pink silk, was hand-
somely hatted and veiled in the fashionable
cream mesh, with a wriggle in its pattern.
Mrs. Louis Henderson —one of the tussore
ladies present—also got behind the new veil
that shows a jabberwock squiggle in its de-
sign. W. G. Layton, the “better not” Walling-
ton of Town Hall social riots, led his own Best
Girl —the other girls had a chance later —in
grey, with a twinkle of cut steel on her slen-
der person, across the Randwick turf, amid
a mild orgy of handshakes. W.G. ought to
be dragged up by the municipal roots and
transplanted to the Cranbrook garden plot,
there to pour oil, lard or melted butter over
the fierce wrath of persons who rage against
the Yerney clan.
Something seems to have dragged the
formerly civil Private-Sec. Verney into an
atmosphere of hostility to everyone out-
side the rarefied atmosphere in which the
A.D.G. breathes, bridges, whiskies and sodas,
and otherwise performs his arduous duties.
Even the “Society” girl is getting her tem-
per on edge re the walking-over Verney man-
ner.
The polo Whites, the large and healthy
Knox family (unsweetened by Colonial
sugar), the Kelso King triplet (father,
daughter and said daughter’s nice step-
mother), the Osborne clan whose woolly
tartan has large gold specks, Mrs. Carey’s
well-dressed chickens, the horsey Hills from
a Yassberra wool patch, and the brisk Gee-
Gee with his acreage of British giant, went
towards the making of a spring weeping at
Randwick.
Prince Alfred Yacht Club has cut another
tooth, and is now branded “Royal,” a fine-
weather gaud that won’t fill its sails in a
dead calm.
Sultan Mohammed V. has been often des-
cribed as “a pathetic, harmless, necessary
old gentleman,” with a special claim to
reign over Turkey because he blinks at ruc-
tions with a good-natured desire to do no-
thing. Even though the hosts of that great
soldier, the Duke di Peanutto, are now roar-
ing at the gate, there is no news of the old
gentleman having been chased out of his
usual calm. But one would think the
seraglio would be getting a move on. There
was a time when the closely shut-up Lady
of the Yashmak might look from the window
of Constantinople and see nothing in any
direction save hundreds of miles of Turkey,
full of other shut-up ladies. But now, with
the intrusions of Bulgarians,_ Greeks, Aus-
trians and others, the empire is getting
small. Armed with a good telescope, the
Lady of the Harem will be able to see the
New Woman in the distance —the one who
wears a big hat, goes to theatres, Hies gaily
around in cabs, and sometimes has a vote.
This will surely bring about a change. If
Mohammed V. toddles away over the rim of
the horizon to see how his army is getting
along in its combat with the serried hosts of
the Duke di Peanutto, his harem may revolt
in his absence, and when the ancient poten-
tate finds the Italian bayonet in front and
the hatpin of the harem threatening in the
rear, he will indeed be surrounded.
The kindly soul of clever John Hoad,
Major-General of the slow-growing Australian
defence force, has passed over the brink of
this small precipice into the infinities. The
dead man’s official career was stabbed with
pinpricks; and the wire-pullers, log-haulers
and other forest devils who tried to drag
under, or roll over the just John Hoad,
have lost the lion in the track.
Mrs. E. W. O’Sullivan was lured by a
blue sky and large invitation placard to come
out of her retirement to the Gee-Gee’s
flower-edged party last week.
Mrs. John Lane’s new book, “The Ty-
ranny of Clothes” (Dymock’s) is good jour-
nalese served up curried between covers. “The
Tyranny of Clothes” is full of the smart
things most of us think of the day after they
ought to have been said. One is, “Who has
not been kept from attending Divine Service
by a hat that refused to get wet?” Others:
“The top hat wails and weeps against the
walls of Jerusalem (or Potts Point), and it
turns up in the solitudes of a desert” ; “To
have no expression is the aim of the highest
civilisation”; “Have you ever, in the pur-
suit of your social studies, fastened your
eyes on a man’s boots? As an experiment,
like putting a pin through a beetle, it is
very interesting—it gives the man unex-
plained suffering.”
“How little it takes to swell the average
human being’s head —how proud he is of his
big bank account, his little intellect, his
social position, or any other thing by which
he can proclaim his superiority (?) to his
fellow worm,” muses Mrs. Lane, who serves
her chestnuts with a spicy flavor.
Manager George Portus celebrated his
birthday on October 4 by getting married to
the widow of Max Maxwell. St. James’s
Church was the place. The parson delivered
his oration to the roof. The verger croaked
in response, and Id. N. Southwell was best
man. Claude M‘Kay, of the J.O.W. staff
Mrs. Mayne, the bride's sister, and Mrs. e!
H. Major were also present at the orange-
blossom proceeding. The snowy roof that
crowns the George Portus head is one of
the most popular appearances on tour this
side of Tripoli, and the wedding breakfast
at Paris House was bombarded with tele-
grams from every port of call on the Aus-
tralian map.
Eleanora de Cisneros and her Cuban
Count have been assiduously hand-fed by
Sydney “Society,” which pursues titles of
any age or vintage with breathless persist-
ence. Society gets to heel when it sniffs the
foreign flavor of castles in Spain, etc., and
its best-looking matrons meekly followed in
the wake of the Count and his camera, and
his handsome song-bird, through the horse-
play of the spring carnival. Eleanora, in
raven plumage dashed with vivid blue, wore
a great rosette of blue and black shut hard
down on her front hair—the velvet hat being
its roof-covering—and walked the earth at
Randwick the other day like some classic
goddess who’d paddled back to solid land via
Charon’s ferry and Paquin’s sign of the
stitch.
Mrs. Sharman, of Auckland (M.L.), for-
merly the bright and volatile Juliet Wray of
musical comedy in these parts, recently got
off the Dominion’s movable crust for a holi-
day on this firm foothold. Grapes showed a
luscious fruitage on the mountain peak of a
wide headpiece, which shaded the piquant
face of Juliet when she unloaded a few stage
memories over a teacup the other afternoon.
Before packing up his vast voice for the
Melbourne sprint, Ben Davies again tore the
emotions of a big Sydney audience on Satur-
day night, by his demand, entreaty and bold
request to Maud to come into the garden.
Gounod’s “Lend Me Your Aid” was the
strong meat of Benjamin’s song-burst, with
Schumann’s “Who is Sylvia” as a savory-
snack, in brackets with two other Schumann
lilts. Esta d’Argo was heavily laden with
floral tributes from admiring friends, and
got through in an agreeable manner with a
generous number of recalls switched on to
her best efforts —notably Tosti’s eternal
“Good-bye” and the “Slumber Tree.” Pianist
Edward Goll grows in grace, and made
sweet music in a Brahms Intermezzo with a
skilful suggestion of having a few organ
pipes stowed away up his sleeve.
Yours with a broad nib,
VANDPRIAN.


7*6
II
HARDY
BROTHERS
LIMITED
WSSS
VICE-REGAL JEWELLERS.
GRANDFATHER CLOCKS
IN HANDSOME OAK CASES.
CHIMING HOURS and QUARTER-HOURS.
A New Shipment just to hand
PRICES RANGING FROM
£.13 -- to £.35/-/-
INSPECTION INVITED.
13 Hunter-st., Sydney
118 Queen-st., Brisbane
LONDON OFFICE :
19 CHARTERHOUSE ST., HOLBURN CIRCUS,
800,000 Copies Sold of the Popular
“Bookstall” Series of Australian Novels.
Written, Illustrated and Printed in Australia.
Price Is. each; Post Free, Is. Id.
“ GENTLEMAN JACK.”
By DON DELANEY. Illustrated. Price 1/-, Post Free 1/1.
Bushranging for revenge, not ‘for profit, is the keynote of “Gentleman Jaetc,” and those who
are in search of startling episodes and splendid situations should peruse this veritable romance
of bushran-ing. “Dr. Jekyl and Mr. Hyde” is not one whit more remarkable than this tale of
the man bushranger, and lover by turns, and who creates that air of mystery througho
that 'rattling story, apart from the fact that the doings of the notorious Ben Hall
gang are woven in with the main plot, and lend it a keen note of tragedy.
A book one is likely to read from cover to cover before leaving oil.
“BILLY PAGAN, MINING ENGINEER.”
By RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
With four half-tone illustrations by Percy F. Spence.
PRICE 1/-, POSTAGE Id.
The mining expert sent out by the syndicate to see if the mine under offer ]s “salted ” or
otherwise has often to pit his wits against the low cunning of underground engineers, and is not
alWa He S must S be l as observant as Sherlock Holmes, as wary as a tiger, and as brave as a lion, for,
wViati hanlkpd the vendors are apt to become dangerous. . ' .
Mr. Bedford has intimate knowledge of the things whereof he writes, and the power to
depict situations and sketch character in a most masterly manner.
The cases cited here are both drilling and amusing.
“MUM DAWSON, ‘BOSS.*”
By SUMNER LOCKE.
With 12 illustrations by D. H. Souter.
PRICE 1/-, POSTAGE Id.
“Outback” is an unknown country to thousands of Australians, and on that account possesses
_ charm that is all it” own Very few of our writers have given faithful accounts ot things as
thev Ire out there • some are all gloom, others all caricature; but in Sumner Locke we have an
author who strikes a happy medium with the happiest results. Mum Dawson is a pen picture
worthv of Dickens ■ drawn, seemingly, without effort, so natural is it. and illumined with bright
splashes of humor which are inimitable. It is safe to predict that this new author will have a
vogue that will rival, if not outrival, any of the present-day Australian writers.
“DAN KELLY, OUTLAW/’
Being the Memoirs of Daniel Kelly (brother of Ned Kelly, leader of the Kelly Gang).
Ed ted by AMBROSE PRATT. With Four full-page Illustrations by Percy Spence.
PRICE 1/-, POSTAGE Id.
In the whole history of Australian Bushranging no gang was more notorious than that
captained by Ned Kelly. Various accounts of the doings of this gang have appeared, but none
hears the hill-mark of truth so pointedly as these leaves from a dead man’s diary, as edited by
Mr. Pratt, who has presented the story so convincingly that, for tense interest and exciting reading,
has e^^’ w /g on ]y member of the gang who escaped the clutches of the law, and his
account of the last stand at Glenrowan is a veritable human document.
Lists sent Post Free to Any Address.
N.S.W. Bookstall Co., 476 George Street, Sydney,
all branches and booksellers.
Aft Inspiring Organ Recital
OR A
Brilliant Orchestral Performance in Your Own Home.
"THE AEOLIAN ORCHESTRELLE endows you with the ability of the organist and
the orchestra leader combined. It enables you to enjoy in your own home an oigan re-
cital in which you employ majestic tonal effects similar to those of the Great Oigan. Or you can
have a superb concert in which you virtually direct a full orchestra of skilled msti umentahsts.
'T*
m j *
ns
i
!v
mm
SE
Prices from 60 to 900 Guineas
The Aeolian Orchestrelle
The Pianola Principle Applied to the Organ.
In playing the Orches-
trelle you practically have
mastery over many different
instruments. You can play your
favorite music, using any orches-
tral tones you prefer.
For example, you can use the
flute, the oboe or the violin for
a simple ballad ; the trumpets,
horns and piccolos for a march.
Or you can combine them all
with impressive effect in ren-
dering some great symphony or
overture.
The HUolian Orchestrelle is
absolutely unique among musical
instruments. There is nothing
else like it in the world.
The HLolian Orchestrelle —
like the Pianola —may be played
without any knowledge of music.
Though one of the most artistic
of all musical instruments, it is
just as available to the untrained
music-lover as to the skilled
musician. It can be seen and
played at Pianola Hall, and full
.particulars will be sent if you
will write for Catalogue “ C.”
,**o
THE PIANOLA COMPANY,
pianola hall, 357 George Street, Sydney (Next David Jones Ltd.)
And at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, London, Berlin, Paris and New York.
™ f *» r. 0
IM THI CEAMAI* «M»Uu»


Messrs. Michelin and Cie., the well-known motor-
tyre manufacturers, who have already done so much
to encourage aviation, have offered prizes amounting
to £6OOO, with a view to testing the practicability
of the aeroplane for offensive purposes in time of
war. The object of the competition is to demonstrate
whether aeroplanes can be used to drop projectiles
on fortresses, arsenals, bodies of troops, bridges,
railway lines, warships, etc. Aviators must take up
at least five projectiles, each weighing a minimum
of 441 b., and must drop them from a height of at
least 656 ft. The projectiles are to be dropped one by
one each time the aviator passes over the target 10
metres in diameter. Another test is to drop pro-
jectiles from a height of 3280 ft. in a rectangle 100
metres long by 10 metres wide. Since 1908 Messrs.
Michelin and Cie. have given over £20,000 in prizes
to encourage aviation in England and France.*
Race
Millinery
that charms
Our Millinery Showroom looks perfect
in its collection of models, that have a
distinct charm and grace all their own.
The hats being worn are of various
shapes and styles, and this permits of an
excellent choice.
Continental creations —that are solely
our own importations—are here in such
a selection as will please the most criti-
cal.
and Costumes
that are smart and stylish, and, above
all, quite new.
From one of the leading British Manu-
facturers we have just received a con-
signment of Ready-to-wear Linen and
Muslin Costumes —a showing of most de-
sirable Gowns.
and the etceteras
which make for perfect appearance:
Parasols, Handkerchiefs, Handbags,
Belts, Lace Collars and Jabots,
Shoes and Hose. In these our stock
is at once refined and complete.
To Visitors to Melbourne during the
Racing Carnival, we extend a cordial in-
vitation to call and inspect our stocks.
BALL & WELCH
PTY., LTD.,
180=188 Flinders Street,
MELBOURNE.
Opposite Princes Bridge Station.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, October 9, 1911.
My Dear Yarrie, —
Henley Day is approaching, and Mel-
bourne, which has hardly a real houseboat
to its name, begins to look to its lighters and
mud punts; also, the local maiden’s fancy
turns to paper flowers and other decorative
trivialities. The firework tail of the river
carnival will clash with the first appear-
ance of the Melba grand opera co.; but that
won’t interfere with the people who would
rather listen to soaring top-notes than the
hiss of ascending rockets. Lady Northcote
and her late husband gave the first leg-up to
the rowing enthusiasts, who have made the
thing a popular success. She wisely sug-
gested that the first money spent should go
towards beautifying the river banks. Every
year more money has been devoted to this
purpose, and the one-time dreary stretches
of dusty footpath have been turned into an
entrancing gai-den promenade. Rose soci-
eties and other flower-loving cults have their
own specially-tended patches on the banks;
they are object-lessons in scientific garden-
ing, and the lecturer in botany frequently
leads his pupil there to show how the thing
should be done. The transformation con-
soles the Melbourne multitude for the fact
that it costs two-and-sixpence to walk beside
the river between Princes’ and Richmond
bridges on one day per annum.
The South-street competitions opened last
week with a 100-c.p. (child power) howl.
Alfred Deakin, who was billed to perform
the opening ceremony, was too ill to appear;
so Willie Watt played the part in a much-
braided suit. Then the vast, banked-up
crowd of children on the stage rose up and
howled “The Unfurled Banner.” There are
5000 entries, and the singing birds of the air
have gone to board in Central Queensland
for the next month or so.
Inspired by the shrieks of contending
genius at South-street, Sub-Excellency Ful-
ler offered quite a tidy heap of gold for an
essay competition. The subject chosen was
“The Racecourses of Victoria”! The first
prize (£5O) was won by a bookish-looking
young man, whose thoughtful brow was a
dumb protest against the subject he had
studied so well. If he was really an invet-
erate punter in disguise, his make-up was a
work of art. In addition to the cash re-
ward, he also raked in a medal left by Lord
Dudley, and adorned with the Dudley arms.
The prizewinner thought that a speech was
required of him; so he ambled on for 15min.,
and showed no symptoms of knocking off
till he was howled down.
The event of the Scotch Collegians’ jubi-
lee week which got most support from the
eldest generations was the parade at the col-
lege itself. Grandpapas and crabbed old
bachelors met and swapped memories and
achievements. A somewhat pathetic figure
amongst the old boys was William Knox, of
the fiat, who, in spite of all disabilities, came,
saw and collected round him a group of
friends. As a Freetrader, etc., William may
be politically lamentable; but his big family
of strapping is an extenuating circum-
stance.
By the way, Ranfurlie, the big Knox
place, has gone the way of most of the big
mansions. Our generation seemingly hasn’t
the home instinct —or else the retainers
haven’t. Royston, the late Thomas Luxton’s
fine home, is also about to be cast before a
public that will probably turn it into a
boarding house or private hospital.
The Scotch College diamond jubilee threw
many fossilised suburban homes into a state
of delightful unrest. Mother (who had not
taken the air in an opera cloak for years)
wore the alert air of a smart setter, and
the head of the house surprised the family
with one or two comparatively new anec-
dotes of his school days. Men who fought
one another scramblesomely at school, met
and slanped one another’s backs; Time hav-
ing given them other and deadlier enemies,
such as the Labor party. The feverish ex-
citement of the celebrations is just about
petering out now, and the old generations
are straggling back to the darning and slug-
hunting; but it was great while it lasted.
The Tom Youngs recently brought into
Horsham, for a wedding dance, all of their
Wimmera friends who will be unable to get
down to Melbourne for daughter Amy’s wed-
ding and the subsequent festivities at Men-
zies’ next week. The local frivol was held in
the largest hall available. The doors and
windows were draped daintily with pale-
blue curtains and baskets of roses hung from
every square foot of ceiling. Next morning,
the small bride-elect hurried down to Mel-
bourne to complete the trousseau-buying.
Rupert Clarke and his lady were observed
in a box at Her Majesty’s, the other night.
She was wrapped in a sunset cloak of orange
and purple, which could only have come from
Paris. Her Titian locks were smoothed
tight back over her head, and caught into a
bun at the back. Some close observers said
that she looked thin and pale and rather ill;
others who saw her descend the stairs noted
that her slippers were made of black satin,
with handpainted butterflies and pansies on
the toes.
Margaret Cuthbertson, a remarkably level-
headed young woman who has been Senior
Inspectress of Factories to the Victorian
Government for some time, has been com-
missioned to go to Fogland to help repair
the local shortage of feminine factory labor
by capturing skilled workers and shipping
them out. Secretary Whitehead, of the
Labor Bureau, has been armed with au-
thority to pick up the required male toilers.
The boys and girls are to be debarred from
mutual acquaintance aboard ship. Immigra-
tion under such conditions implies tantalisa-
tion, hut, on the word of experienced sea
captains who have studied the social ques-
tion in its marine aspects, these tyrannical
separations of God’s creatures are “all for
the best.”
* Mayoress Mrs. Davey and the John Mad-
den lady are organising a smart concert in
aid of the Bush Nursing scheme. It is to be
given in the old council chamber of the Town
Hall, on Monday, November 13. Beatrice
Madden, Maggie Stirling, Frankie-Oliver-
Stewart-Murray, Mrs. Norman Brookes and
Walter Kirby will all figure on the pro-
gramme. One item is bound to be a success.
It is a raffle.
A doctor has discovered the probable cause
of young Jack Wynne’s suicide. The poor
fellow, who had been motoring in the ex-
treme cold of the day before, was suffering
from measles, and must have been delirious
when he did the deed. Great sympathy is
felt for his mother, who only arrived back
from England on the day of the tragedy.
Bonnie Watt, the nattiest horsewoman in
Melbourne, who went coronating with
mamma, stayed on in Fogland as the guest of
Admiral and Mrs. Stewart at their moated
grange. The Admiral’s son, Lieutenant Ste-
wart, who was once in Australia on the
Challenger, is also somewhere about the
moated circumstance aforesaid. Mrs. Ste-
wart, who was Mrs. Edwards when Sydney
and Melbourne knew her in the days of her
widowhoqd, has lately been having a re-
union of old Australian friends.
One of the most recent returns from Lon-
don is Mrs. Tom Fairbairn. Mrs. Tom
once sparkled in Toorak as the leader of a
little ultra-smart clique, which was known
locally as “The Set.” Those were the days
of netted fringes and sailor hats. The
hobbled maiden of to-day laughs when she
strikes a photograph of the period in some
old album. Since that bygone time, Mrs.
Tom has dwelt much abroad, and Toorak
is now so close to South Yarra and other
hash-haunted localities, that you can’t tell
the difference, except by noticing whether it
puts on side or front. If it puts on side, it’s
Toorak; if it just puts on front, it’s South
Yarra.
On Wednesday of last week, Arthur Leo-
fric St. Aubyn Wake wedded the Elma
Highett orphan heiress. Uncle Edward
Jolley Crooke, who sits in the Upper ’Ouse
and blocks hasty legislation, gave the bride
away; Cousin Adey Russel bridesmaided;
and a Henty man supported the bridegroom.
Mrs. Arthur Leofric, etc, had shied at the
conventional bridal gear, and arrived at the
church becomingly garbed in a white walk-
ing dress, and with a touch of pink in her
hat. After the ceremony, the gathering,
which included Auntie Payne and the politi-
cal husband, hastened to Menzies’, where
speeches trickled to the bubbling of cham-
pagne. A horse made of icing decorated the
top of the cake, as a tribute to the bride’s
prowess in the hunting field.
Mrs. Bleasby, the genial daughter of the
late Tom Bent, was at home at the Austral
Salon, last Monday._ Daughter Nancy (who
has grown, of late, like the pantomime bean-
stalk), garbed all in white like her mother,
was on. hand to help. The room was decor-
ated with about a train-load of pink roses,
and the refreshments and music left nothing
to be desired, and very little to be hoped for.
Rupert Clarke’s interest in the flying gee-
gees has been declining towards zero since
the days when his Sweet Nell won the Caul-
field Cup, and F.J.A. (the colt named after
another lady) annoyed the “stable” by beat-
ing Nell for the Melbourne Derby. This
year restless Rupe will miss Caulfield races.
He is off to Queensland to run his proprie-
torial eye over a new station, whicn he has
not yet inspected. If he is away a full
month, as he intends, he will return only
just in time for Melbourne Cup.
Mrs. John Osborne (Olive Atherton as
was) is back with her husband from the
honeymoon in Japan. The matron looked
cheerier than ever as she trailed her smart
rags on the terrace at Flemington the other
day. Hubby, for his matrimonial part, is a
trifle thinner than the bachelor he used to
be.
An Englishwoman, who is on her first visit
to Australia, raves about the common lilies
that flourish anigh the drain in every little
back yard. Says the stranger from oversea:
‘ Ip London I have known people to pay two
shillings each for them; but here they grow
like weeds, and you think nothing of them.”
The same remark, of course, applies to rab-
bits. A bushman I know, tells a story about
a simple Billjim who heard casually that
rabbits were worth a lot of money in Lon-
don ; so he collected a large mob and started
to overland them to the village by the
Thames. The narrative winds up with the
wild drover standing somewhere on the nor’-
west coast, and babbling about “floods,”
while his mob of fats take swimming exer-
cise in the Indian Ocean.
A man who hopped at the Victorian
Artists’ masquerade has been going round
since that function in a partially stunned
condition. He chummed up with a delect-
able veiled hotiri, who, instead of wearing
the ordinary mask, had enveloped her neck
and shoulders in a thick gauze veil. “You’ll
have to unmask very soon, you know,” said
the iniatuated male person after their
severalth dance together. “When I do,” said
the sylph, “you’ll be disenchanted. lam an
old woman of 60.” “Oh, nonsense!” said
the man. But when the unmasking bell
rang, a pair of white hands deftly removed
the disguise, and a slender little old woman
laughed mischievously at him.
Melbourne medico Harbinson, who ban-
dages occasional verses of his own in emer-
ald green and gilt edges, is a cousin of Money-
penny, editor of the just-published “Life of
Disraeli.”
Daylesford had a locally-fashionable hop
and a horrid shock simultaneously the other
evening. The trouble started over the local
hospital committee’s annual report, which
alleged that all the year’s operations had
been successful. There was a tremendous
buzz in the papers about it, and various
people—an M.D. included—said that the
operations might have been successful, but
some of the patients had gone to the ceme-
tery all the same. The belligerents had got
to the point of throwing infuriated poetry
at one another, when the fashionable hop
happened, and one of the oppositionists
arrived dressed as a corpse, with this in-
scription on his winding sheet: “The result
of a successful surgical operation. Have
one. Several ladies immediately had hys-
terics, and the corpse was instructed to go
away and bury itself.
Polo is becoming more popular with the
moneyed section, as G.-G. Denman is keen
on the expensive sport; moreover, he is a
good polo weight, and obviously possesses
the necessary elasticity of collarbone. As a
guarantee of his support, he has just in-
vested 250 sovereigns in four Queensland-
bred polo ponies. The old polo club petered
out —probably because the supply of collar-
bones and enthusiasm became exhausted.
But there is every prospect of a vigorous
new one being formed with the*G.-G. in the
lead. If all goes well, a start will be made
about Cup time on the Moonee Valley
course, where the earliest gang of polo
knights used to joust.
The Victorian Artists’ Society is rousing
up for its annual show, and the painters are
in the usual rage with delinquent frame-
makers. The attitude of these sordid
artisans is cynically similar to that of
the band, which gives so much slow musical
color to a melodrama, but gets no personal
glorification out of it. Makers with artistic
yearnings are longing for a return of the
old fashion of signed frames, under which
the fencers of canvas got their share of the
applause. The show opens on Friday, some
score of hours after this issue sheds the radi-
ance of its colors on the bookstalls.
Major-General Hoad, who was buried in
the rain on Sunday last, had for months been
a sick man, whose waking hours were filled
with massage exercises and sunbaths on the
lawn. The long-after effects of a nasty
head wound helped to break down his con-
stitution. He was privileged to keep his
camera by him in the Russo-Jap struggle,
and secured some particularly valuable
battlefield photographs.
A dimpled Sassiety miss, who had hard-
ened her heart for three years against a
devout lover, was playfully flourishing a
golf club on a verandah where the man was
basking in the sun. Suddenly there was a
thud and a scream, and the lover, his head
bleeding profusely from an ugly wound, took
the count. It looked like a tragedy, but it
merely turned out to be the second last chap-
ter of a romance. The girl’s pity was so
near akin to love that she couldn’t tell the
difference; and now she sports a handsome
diamond ring, in earnest of a plain gold one
to follow. Will he ever trust her to chop
the wood?
A Melbourne Judge, tired of worrying
over the monetary value of breaches of pro-
mise, has suggested that the old custom of
signed marriage contracts be reverted to,
but that a modern clause be added fixing the
amount to be paid by the male defaulter if
the match does not eventuate. Soon the
blushing engaged maiden will go round pub-
lishing, not only the value of her catch, but
the amount of forfeit to be paid by the
hooked one if he fails to turn up. They will
agree to get married to a finish under Mar-
quis of Queensberry rules, as it were, no for-
feit being imposed upon the female heart-
bruiser. _ But the scheme won’t work.
There will still be legal appeals for varia-
tion of the contract and reduction, or even
obliteration, of damages, on the pleas of
undue influence, excitement and unfit state
of mind at the time of signing, false repre-
sentation, subsequent depreciation of the
girl and many other points.
The municipal fathers of Footscray lately
put a stop to the local Sunday picture-shows
on the ground that they were diverting pub-
lic attention from religious exercises. Now
they have a scheme for running a Sunday
display of purely moral pictures in connec-
tion with sermonettes and hymns. Since the
announcement of this remarkable conver-
sion, a number of Sunday cinematograph
merchants in the other Melbourne districts
are seriously thinking of sporting white ties
and buttoning their collars at the back.
Otto Linden, who died the other day at
South Yarra, was the sort of musician who
could quiet a whole drawing-room of para-
keets by playing the prelude of a song. His
masterly touch simply compelled attention.
Governor Hopetoun.was one of his keenest
admirers, and, during his first reign, often
got him to finger the Government House
pianos. ’Cellist Lieber, long since dead,
played often to Linden’s accompaniment.
Linden was a much-travelled man, and an
accomplished linguist. He passed on his
gift of tongues to statuesque daughter Molly,
who uplifts a small sweet voice in Clarke-
Meynell choruses.
Amy Castles farewelled brilliantly, on
Saturday night, in the Town Hall. She
draped herself for the occasion in a pink
silk gown, that clung about the feet in a
classical way, and hound her hair in a
pretty snood, which was of great assistance
to her smiles and dimples. A big circle of
governing folk sat comfortably at her feet, in
big, blue, easy chairs, and smiled back their
appreciation of her delightfully-fresh top-
notes. Lady Fuller showed the roof of a
well-groomed head comfortably cushioned
against the back of her big chair; tall
Auntie Phipps, in a gorgeous blue cape like
the legendary cloak of content, changed seats
at intervals with John Madden’s two
daughters; and the Madden lady listened
intently, without a stir. The Gaud Mayor
also lent a willing ear. and charged no in-
terest on it. The Gaudess, alongside, looked
a handsome circumstance, in black and white
chiffon feathering. A brace of attentive
Gentleman Helps provided a humorous touch
for the group ; they sat bolt upright on hard,
high chairs, and seemed to envy—with be-
coming respect, of course—the blue-uphol-
stered refuges of their slightly betters
The Repertory Theatre is keeping its end
up, and promoter Gregan McMahon smiles
as he watches the public crowding along. The
Turn Yerein Hall is not such a very small
place, but it fills up very easily now, and
when a sufficiently loud demand goes up for
a larger show place, the McMahon, who be-
lieves in catching his public before he pro-
vides a big theatre, will look round. Last
week, Gregan gave his people a curtain-
raiser as well as the usual play. It was
called “The Revolt,” and the moral seemed
to be that when a woman gets thoroughly
used to a Beast and his insults, she cannot
do without him. The heroine, after re-
nouncing her worse half, demonstrating that
she is independent and making a fine exit,
creeps back in the moonlight and meekly
submits to his scoffs. And he is no smail
scoffer, either.
There was a rumpus in a certain hostelry,
the other night, due to the wife-thumping
proclivities of an imported mummer. The
lady is not herself a member of the profesh,
nevertheless she emulated her bigger half on
this occasion by “singing out” from her bed-
room rather alarmingly. The landlord, going
to restore order in the camp, heard enough
to justify him in thumping the thumper.
From my Adelaide correspondent:—
No longer can football be regarded as outside the
sphere of feminine interest. Of late, the various ovals
have been packed on Saturdays with female bar-
rackers. Adelaide Oval fairly swarmed with them
last Saturday, the occasion being the “final” of the
season that is now dead, and their enthusiasm was
nearly as beautiful to behold as their clothes.
On the same day of semi-rest, the socially-inclined
journeyed to the Walkerville garden fete. Walker-
ville is famous for its rose garden, and Archdeacon
Dove is said to know as much about roses as
any man in the State. Walkerville is waking
up, and has set itself to build a rectory—hence the
fete. The scene of action was the Van Senden’s
garden. The presence of Government House vouched
for a following of the elect, and as the elect put their
rm. S in their pockets, the affair was a success.
The latest engagement concerns a son of George
Rrookman—one time an M.L.C., and permanently
a man of property” and Miss Nan Burden, o‘f
Mount Lofty; while Rex Wallenan, of Burnside, is
to be married to Miss Nettie Trench, whose father
manages the Union Bank at Port Adelaide. Further-
more, Miss Gertrude Field (a daughter of the late
Canon Field) is to make her future home in Eng-
land, she having determined to wed a Suffolk man,
who owns the somewhat ponderous name of Bigsbv
Harsant.
Both Government House and Mayor Cohen promise
us revels in the near future. The mayoral garden
party is billed for October 27, and Government
House announces a small similar event on October
24, and an At Home—9 o’clock—on the 31st. Miss
Bosanquet recently deserted the much-disputed vice-
regal residence, and fled for a peaceful few days with
Mrs. Gordon Macfarlane (formerly Doris Hawker) at
the Lakes.
News from Melbourne speaks more hopefully of
Mr. Langdon, who came to grief here in the hunt-
ing field. The doctors have removed a splinter of
bone from the spine, and speak cheerfully of the re-
sult. His sister (Miss Marjorie Langdon) is still
visiting friends in this State.
Miss de Lissa has returned from Westralia. She
has been giving the sister State hints on kinder-
garten work.
On Wednesday Mrs. Peter Waite gave a small
dance. Urrbrae is an ideal house fpr such frivoli-
ties, and boasts a perfect ballroom.
Medicoes are returning from the Sydney conference
in force. The De Crespignys are back, likewise the
Higham Wiggs and their daughter. Mrs. Max
Anderson is also with us again.
From “Lady Kitty,’" in London, comes the news
that the hitherto anonymous author of “Letters to
My Son” is Winifred James. Miss James hailed
from Victoria; on the other hand, she had a tea-
room here for some time, so we claim a sort of part-
interest in her success.
The sensation of the week has been the trial of
the aeroplane, which was .to have been used in the
Mawson Polar expedition. Lieutenant Watkins has
made a host of friends here, and many Adelaideans,
both men and women, were keen to “fly.” The pre-
liminary flights at Cheltenham (in the first light of
dawn) had brought residents of the neighborhood
to their doors and windows, more or less sparsely
attired, and all seemed to be going smoothly. The
news of the smash caused general consternation, but,
fortunately, things are less serious than was first
feared.
The Mary Anne question continues to burn. The
immigration committee met again t’other evening,
and besought the Government to import girls from
the Lawrence orphanages in India. The official reply
is to the effect that Miss Walker is finding ample
material in England and Ireland, so the Anglo-
Indian orphans are not in immediate demand.
The Anchises brought back to us Mr. and Mrs.
Maughan, who’ve made Britain their headquarters
for the last six months. During his travels the
Chief-Inspector has inquired vigorously into educa-
tional matters.
There are ructions over Dr. Basedow. An over-
zealous M.L.C. asked questions in the House which
were intended to help the medico-geologist. The
Minister’s reply was something of a jar for the
energetic young man in question.
Rev. John Nelson, the ex-missionary, who is en-
deavoring to solve the Mary Anne question by the
“orphans from India” scheme,- has caught the pre-
vailing marriage fever. His fellow-victim is the
widow of a local cleric.
Mrs. Birks, who died so suddenly, was one of the
leading spirits in the work of the Y.W.C.A. She
was in the act of presiding at a meeting when she
collapsed. She came of a family that was strong
on social reform and good works generally. The late
Robert Kyffin Thomas was her brother.
The Glenelg Golf Club had a cheerful day on Sat-
urday, when the feminine portion of the Glenelg,
Seaton, North Adelaide and Strathalbyn clubs was
entertained on the local links. Mrs. O’Leary (presi-
dent of the Glenelg Ladies’ Club) gave the tea, and
saw Mrs. Driscoll, Miss L. Gordon, and Miss N. Law
Smith take the trophies.
Yours affectionately,
JOHANNA.


PASSING-OFF. We have been advised by Messrs. Schweppes Ltd. that, in consequence of the numerous imitations of their productions both in similarity of label and get-up, against which, according to the
various decisions of the High Court, the Commonwealth Trade Marks Act affords no protection whatsoever, they have changed the name of their Aerated Sarsaparilla to SARTO.— Brisbane Courier, Oct. 5.
■'ySv/' L>fscl€^s^fcyj'cl
the Unscyupulouc.
"to "trke G>ottle-’6>o\ldeir‘‘yoo
most Vo+tle, a.
‘fi'Ctd 9 for !S we pP es
Ihe Tr>r\te<
"•be-.
d I'oVNS
l\hel .
"Yoo coujdYnt" “fell / <-> .
Jtm «>a/r * SVA ty'T^tev- 1 '
?eWec.r"sA.irf tfje. U.M- " Still.,
l'd bettev'
r ' 1 Solicitor "
w/v )\
p2\SS , M slid tt)t
o' LAV-
/Ti)ese.
tt-je, Kf^eu)
~to A sw <y l~
p'fop't , WiTk acr\ jv\fovrY\b v 'n'\/E Wii\K
Vt's 'Steppes'
lo
"tf) e.
r^e \v I y (Xyo uJn e (L ir)
To In )) i or> S 0”T
/pAtTolu* WsT
tys IgTTER.
lilt „ IK ' Bo ><-
I
Ifarii or»e ho
OoT of (
h»S l W'f'i e>\ he.
Y'eAcL
~-ti^r
vSweppes^
M
OU/I Y\^
“to
Tfije. 7
'to
«|
•
T^disTev'ed
• I+
dte*r ) he wv»oM“ ke. pYbsect//e.<jl
J^°, r V dj l d'rtT~ \Y)rvencC
fys 3uS>ncSi >v»eTl>o 0(3 * "Yes
(ruJT “his * Xjsfttfcr vvouldl Oe.
Vo\dL of *f h«- did n't
"the >v<\)rv\e •» c > . He. would
doit a<y\d risk Q>nse.c^cYie.e.s
'Never •*
fIONOY’ th)€^
r7 ? e '~C. %y A. CA.se of Impost for\
£"!s drm* Tt w ce ' ■'he -pWiiner to }>*y J /,pjo Cos T f
T / vv ft o/K»s y>ro d octhr) , WiV) a
low The. loos M AYiufAcTurer l5.
tfjcjf . The. cruel jper\A' 1 )' mere Cou y e^.
CONSTERNATION IN THE POP TRADE. THE PRODUCTION OF "SARTO.”


A Christinas Suggestion.
It is as difficult to choose the perfect
Christmas present as the perfect wedding
present. Now is the time when you are
worrying over the Christmas reminder
you will send to your friends overseas.
The perfect Christmas present for the
other side of the world roust be easilv
packed; it must not be fragile; it must
not be the sort of gift that could be
bought in your friend’s town ; it must be
uniquely Australian —in short, it must
be the half-yearly bound volume of The
Lone Hand.
This gift, the May-October volume, is
bound handsomely in cloth with gold em-
bossings. It is the essence of Australia
—as characteristically Australian as. the
scent of gum leaves. Not only is it a
beautiful present, but it is a great
national advertisement for your own
country. It tells your friends overseas
more about Australia than all the letters
you could write.
As the volumes are now being bound,
it is advisable for you to send in your
order at once —Price, 6/6. Postage :
Australasia, 1/2; otherwise, 2/4.
The onlv guarantee readers have of
getting The Lone Hand regularly
month by month, without missing a num-
ber, is to subscribe. The subscription
rates are :
Australasia: 6/- per annum l, post free ;
or 3/- for six months , post free.
Abroad: 9/- per annum , post free.
HER OBJECTION TO IT.
“The only objection I have to Chamberlain’s
Cough Remedy is that the children are always asking
for it,” writes Mrs. J. S. Phillips, of Rockwell Street,
South Broken Hill, N.S.W. “My kiddies have both
been subject to colds and croup ever since they were
born. My eldest boy was so bad at one time that he
was in bed for a week. In fact, we despaired of his
life, but thanks to Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy he
was soon well again.”*
The Rapid Healer.
Rexona provides the latest short cut of Science to
a complete remedy for Pimples, Boils, Sores, Wounds,
and Skin Diseases generally. Which road will you
take, reader? The old-fashioned, tedious, long way
round full of irritations, relapses and delays, or the
short cut to the rapid remedy which modern Science
has provided you in the shape of Rexona. Sold in
triangular pots at Is. 6d. and 3s.*
TAKEN EVERY YEAR
TO THE HOSPITAL.
♦
With Violent Attacks of
Sciatica*
This Man Suffered for Fourteen
Years, but at last Found a Cure
Every year, for 14 years, as the cold
weather of Junfe came on, Mr. W. Clarke,
214 Gouger-street, Adelaide, S.A., was taken
with crippling attacks of Sciatica, and had
to be taken to the hospital, where he would
be an inmate for three or four weeks. Not
a single year in 14 was he without an attack,
but he passed the fifteenth without a sign of
Sciatica. He had found a cure. Acting on
the experience of others who had been cured
by Dr. Williams’ Fink Pills, he tried them,
and obtained wonderful relief. The follow-
ing are Mr. Clarke’s own words: —
“Some years back I got several severe
wettings when out fishing. Subsequently I
was subject to severe sciatic pains, particu-
larly in the back of the hips. The pains
were as if someone was driving a knife into
my hips. For 14 years every June I have
had to go to the hospital, with the result
that I had to remain there each time for
three or four weeks. I would leave the hos-
pital very little better than when I went in.
About eight months since I saw an adver-
tisement in a paper about cures effected by
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills, and having heard
people talk about them also, I determined to
give them a trial, and I am glad I did. My
wife bought one box at Guenthers, the chem-
ist in Gouger-street, and 1 started taking
them. I found so much benefit from the
first box that I bought two more boxes, and
have felt so well since that this is the first
year I have not had to go to the hospital for
past 15 years. Any of my neighbors can
tell you what I suffered for years, and or
the wonderful improvement in my health
since I took Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills, and
now, although I am 59 years of age, I can
do more work than I could at any time dur-
ing my previous 15 or 20 years. I can sleep
and eat and enjoy life as well as any man
of my age, and I attribute it all to my use
of Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills, my only regret
being I did not use tbem before.”
Remember, only the genuine Dr. \vil-
liams’ Pink Pills cure. Don’t be gulled into
taking something said to be just as good.
Of all dealers at 2s. 9d. per box, 6 boxes
15s. 3d., or from the Dr. Williams’ Medicine
Co. of Australasia Ltd., Sydney.
MptorS
Denyer’s
Special Elas-
tic Truss en-
sures perfect
safety and
comfort—full
support with-
out irritation
Being Truss
Specialists,
we can fit you
D ENYER
©
17/6 Single;
22/6 Double.
Other makes
from 3/6.
exactlv. Call or write us.
DENYER BROS., Makers of Trusses & Abdominal
Belts, 281 GEORGE ST. (opp. Hunter St,). SYDNEY ;
and at Melbourne, corner Swanston & Lonsdale^St^
POLITICAL
POINTS
TOO MUCH DELAY,
THE O UTPOST: “Get your troops on quick; the
Japs are coming.”
A USTRALIA: “Can't do anything. Why they
haven’t even agreed yet about the gauge
for the railway.”
Politician Ball clamored fiercely last week
because the farmers in the southern part of
N.S.W. have on hand “hundreds and thou-
sands of bags of wheat ” which they can’t
get to market, partly because there aren’t
enough trucks, partly because such trucks
as there are take a deuce of a time to get
all the hundreds of miles to Sydney and
back, and partly because the long, congested,
single line can’t carry the trucks. And
Politician Ball gibbered bitterly about the
need to duplicate the railway, though that
won’t bring these farmers an inch nearer
to a port than they are now. If Ball’s con-
stituents were capable of understanding that
there is no Divine law against the existence
of other seaport cities besides Sydney, they
would set their member to shout for a line
to their nearest port, which would be much
more to the point. People who can’t realise
a small matter like that, deserve to have
millions of bags of wheat on hand —or even
billions.
Question by J. C. L. Fitzpatrick in the
N.S.W. Assembly (4/10/’ll) :
For what purpose is it proposed to use the blue-
nietal from Port Kembla quarry ?
Reply of the Government: —
Any purpose for which blue-metal is suitable.
So, as long as the quarry holds out the Oppo-
sition will be able to find arguments why
Speaker Willis should not remain in the
chair.
The N.S.W. mining prospector is an un-
lucky beggar. He is always missing millions
through not getting a Government grant, and
when he does get a grant he misses the mil-
lions just the same. The State has to be re-
paid “if minerals are won in payable quan-
tities” ; yet of £420,858 which the State has
so far handed out, only £2OlO has come back
to the Treasury.
A Royal Commission has recommended
that Tasmania should receive from the
Commonwealth £900,000, to make up for
losses incurred through the imperfect records
kept during the first 10 years of Federation.
There is no possible objection to the pay-
ment, but, for fear Tassy should go on a
burst with the endowment, it would be much
better not to hand it over in cash. The
island has a litle loan of £844,833 falling
due in 1913, and if the bulk of the £900,000
was applied to the extinction of that item, it
would do Tassy a lot more good than the
biggest spree it could have over-night, and
the largest head it could wake with in the
morning.
Both Deakin and Cook have been members
of Governments which, when they have is-
sued loans, have notified that “applications
will be received through any member of the
Stock Exchange” ; and nine out of 10 pros-
pectuses to which guinea-pigs put their
names run the same way. In other words,
though there are dozens of brokers who don’t
belong to the stock-brokers’ union, Fat al-
most invariably says—“l’ll employ any
broker so long as he is a unionist. The
other fellows may be able to do the work,
but I prefer to employ those who are doing
something to improve the status of brokers.”
Fat doesn’t even say: “Applications from
union brokers will have preference.” He
simply won’t recognise applications that
come through the other sort. That’s busi-
ness. But when it comes to applying the
same rule to bricklayers as to brokers, the
fair-minded Fatman calls it tyranny.
Maoriland’s new Parliament
House, to replace the old build-
ing destroyed by fire a few
years back, is estimated to cost
a quarter-million of loan money,
revenue being mostly occupied
in paying interest to Abraham
Pawnshop. The winners of the
£lOOO prize offered for a design
were John Campbell (Govern-
ment Architect) and Claude
Paton, and the second prize-
winner was J. S. Seddon,
youngest son of the late lam-
ented Richard. Young Seddon
was articled to an achitectural
firm only five years ago, and is
making progress on a fairly-
large scale. Colonel Vernon, of
N. S. Wales, who judged the de-
signs submitted, reckons that
from the plans tendered an edi-
fice can be erected wherein
Joseph Ward will be able to
swing the financial cat com-
fortably.
Dr. Arthur, of N.S.W. Gassembly, gave
the McGowen Government a gratuitous cer-
tificate of death the other night at Mosman,
describing it as “a corpse offensive to eye and
nose.” This shows what incapable under-
takers C. G. Wade and his men are. The
Hero of Mt. Kembla and the other coffin-
carriers have been trying for weeks to start
the funeral with censure motions, abuse,
screams, hoots and blither. But the hearse
is still standing empty at the door of the
Macquarie-street House.
Local Liberals express confidence... they point
out that the electorate is one in which farming in-
terests predominate, and trust to the political
affinity between Liberalism and the man on the land
to give them the majority when the numbers go up.
-Recent news item.
A RURAL ROMANCE.
Amid the general downfall of the “Lib-
erals” in Westralia, W. B. Gordon, Minis-
terial Whip, deserves a line. In 1908 he was
top of the pole in a triangular struggle at
Canning, getting 877 votes out of 2068.
Last week he was fourth among five candi-
dates, with 299 votes out of 3277. As a
successful loser of public confidence Gordon
stands high.
On the eve of the Westralian State elec-
tions, Melb. Argus said: “The general
opinion is that the Ministry will be returned
with a majority of three or four.” Which
suggests that the Tory press is not wilfully
blind to general opinion, but takes a natur-
ally wrong measurement of it. The Argus
had no possible purpose to serve by making
a prediction that was almost certain to be
falsified in its next issue. It wasn’t trying
to influence voters in Westralia; it was
merely laboring under the old idea that
General Opinion is a red-faced person in a
white vest, who stands at the window of his
club and snorts at the passing “masses.”
“Montalex” : I read in the S. M. Herald
that, “Man for man, the fanatical Mahome-
tan would in all probability be a match for
the modern Italian, who is quite another
type of man from his Roman forebears.” Of
such twaddle are the “great’‘dailies composed.
Taking no notice of the lovely syntax of
this deliverance, let us dissect the “modern
Italian!” Precious little of him is Roman.
He is—taking him from north to south —
Gaul, Ligurian, Ostrogoth, Lombard, Etrus-
can, Oscan, Slav and Greek. As for the
“fanatical Mahometan,” who “would in all
probability be a match for” this extremely
complex product, he may belong to any one
of half a hundred races, and may, as a con-
sequence, vary indefinitely in fighting
capacity.
BRENNAN’S GYROSCOPIC MONO-
RAIL CAR.
The simple device which everybody seems to
overlook while clamoring as to whether the
transcontinental railway gauge shall be
4ft. or 5ft. 3 in. This swift vehicle
needs no gauge at all —and is equally ready
to stand still or run like the wind on one
wheel.
The transcontinental railway to the West
is to be built with borrowed money, so a
good Federal Labor principle goes overboard.
It seems a case of turning dog on very
small provocation. The railway is a mere
£4,000,000 job at most. If the work is
spread over two years, that would mean
£2,000,000 a year; if over four years it
would mean £1,000,000 a year. It is quite
possible to dig either amount out of revenue,
for the Federal income grows bigger every
day. This is the first time the Federal Labor
party’s non-borrowing principle has been
seriously tried, and it is a pity that it should
go overboard at the first time of asking.
The Fisher Government has an incurable
tendency to accept advice from its enemies.
They told it that Australia should have a
mean little bit of Federal capital territory,
with no coal or water power, and no chance
to do a big experiment in Government own-
ership of land or industries —that the capital
should be a mere suburb of Sydney, so that
the trade would all go to the city, where the
Tory Telegkaph and Herald and Evening
News have their habitat —and that it was
the business of the Commonwealth to be a
sort of advance agent for the N.S.W. Con-
gestion party. They told it that it
mustn’t do anything to give its notes a reli-
able circulation, but must depend wholly on
the private banks. Also, they assured it
that large public works couldn’t be built
except with borrowed money. And the
Fisher Government took the advice of Fat
everv time.
“T. Tufthunter” writes :
Anti-Defencites of the Red
Flag breed should read French-
Socialist-leader Jaures on “The
Duty of Citizen-Soldiership.” He
mentions that “the proletariat is
not outside patriotism,” and ad-
vises them “to furnish the great-
est possible number of officers to
the new army,” as “the capital-
ist policy of repression and com-
pression will be by so much the
less easy if its commands to the
democratic army have to pass
through a series of chiefs, of
whom the greater number sym-
pathise at heart with the work-
ing class.” As Carnot said:
“Whenever one particular section
of the people remains constantly
armed whilst another is not, the
latter necessarily becomes the
slave of the former.”
The Australian Defence Department has
a grievance over a matter of cloth. It
called for tenders for 88,000 yards of water-
proof khaki, which it wanted made in Aus-
tralia, and only received tenders for 32,000
yards. Therefore, it feels that its efforts
to promote Australian industry are not
properly anpreciated. One wonders what
the Department expects. The Australian
cloth factories are very small, and the Gov-
ernment does its best to keep them small.
They have to pay about double the wages, for
short hours, that many of their foreign com-
petitors do for long hours. They are under
rules and regulations from which their rival,
the importer, is exempt. The Protection
they receive is utterly inadequate to cover
these differences, and they are told that the
duties can’t be revised till the New Protec-
tion question is settled. Meanwhile, wages
and rents keep going up. orators at eight-
hour meetings talk of reducing the working
day to six hours, and the importer brings
in his cheap-nigger-labor goods in larger and
larger quantities. So, having carefully kept
the factories down to a one-pint basis, the
Government suddenly offers them a two-
quart order, and regards it as base ingrati-
tude that they don’t fill it. It is like en-
couraging native industry by offering a
blacksmith a job to build an ironclad at
short notice, after first making dead sure
that he isn’t, and hasn’t been allowed to be,
anything more than a blacksmith.
Enlightening item from Melbourne Age
(4/10/T1) :
It is the intention of Dr. Burnett Ham to call a
meeting for next week of the medical committee
appointed by the Government to report on and ad-
vise legislation against a certain malignant disease.
And only the other week the Age was de-
ploring the “false shame” which debarred
people from naming the disease in question,
and urging that the unhealthy darkness that
clings round the subject of syphilis should be
dispelled.
“Public Servant”: According to political
rumor in Sydney and to the more important
fact that Premier McGowen, when challenged,
would not make a denial, it is the intention
of the N.S.W. Labor Cabinet to appoint J.
R. Dacey, M.L.A., as Under-Secretary of
Labor and Industry when that
billet is created. Now, I’m not
going to question Dacey’s abil-
ity, nor the party reasons why
he should get a good job, but I
do question the., wisdom of the
move from a political point_ of
view. If the good billets going
in the Service are not to be the
reward of long years of struggle
on the lower rungs of the Ser-
vice ladder, but are to be, in-
stead, the perqs. of disappointed
politicians, then Labor can take
it, from a man who knows, that
the next time the Service
prances round to record its vote
it will be in a very different
frame of mind than it was at
last general elections. Of course,
Daeey hasn’t got the job yet;
and i hope he won’t get it. One
job leads to another, and a
series of jobs is liable to lead
to the Devil, and if Labor re-
quires to learn that old lesson
it is more short-sighted _ than
even Bruce Smith thinks it is.
“Barb Dwyer”: If it is true, as alleged
by the Black Australia push, that the white
man is a complete failure in the tropics, why
is the said white man so much more pro-
gressive in North Queensland than in Tas-
mania? I badly want to know.
The immigration restrictioh test seems to
be a net with a pretty wide mesh. Last year
3931 Asiatics and other discolored persons
got through, and only 32 persons of all kinds,
including two Japs and five British, were
shut out. Most of the 1955 Chinese who
passed in managed it on the “previous domi-
cile” racket, and Heaven only knows how
much hard lying there was in that parcel.
Altogether, though the official return is issued
on the unimpeachable stationery of the Ex-
ternal Affairs Department, it doesn’t look at
all pretty.
REASONABLE DOUBT.
[FOR THE BULLEITN.]
The Argus on the Westralian elections: “In spite
of the tale told by the figures, it may reasonably be
doubted whether the verdict of the people is in
favor of the policy put forward by the Labor party.”
These Westralian elections were conducted on a
system of preferential voting, put forward by the
Liberals, about which system the Argus has declared
with righteous warmth that by such means alone can
the true and earnest desires of the electors make
themselves felt. But there is still room for “reason-
able doubt.”
When it chances an election
Puts the Fatted Party in,
There’s no evil in connection
With the fact. Should Labor win
It’s an accident, a sin.
And all about
There’s an opening wide as Hades for a “reasonable
doubt.”
If the people take and batter
“Liberals” all around the shop;
If the party’s ranks they scatter,
As the sickle does the crop.
And all Chaos is on top—
Still they shout
That about these consequences there is reasonable
doubt.
When old Fat’s at length extended
In his coffin ’neath the grass,
And his monument’s upended
By the remnants of his class,
We shall carve upon the brass:
“Down and Out!”
But we’ll leave sufficient room beneath for “Reason-
able Doubt.”
VICTOItIA.
EDDYSON.


RONISCH
SOLE AGENTS
These Highly Artistic Pianos
Have been proving their
excellence in Australia for
the past 45 years.
To such g'ood purpose Have
they done it, that we find it
difficult to Keep pace witH
orders.
The last consignment re-
ceived are better than ever,
there being a poetry in their
tone that will appeal to all
musicians, whilst their case-
worß is very chaste.
As to tbeir durability, we
cannot speaß too Highly, and
we substantiate what we say
with our full g'uarantee.
"We sell these Pianos for
cash or on easy terms, and
our Catalogues are yours
for the asKing.
W. H. PALING (a CO., LTD.
338 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
And at BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE,
TOOWOOMBA and LISMORE.
Beauty’s Favourite.
The article wbicb excels all others
in improving' the beauty of tbe sKin
is naturally and deservedly beauty’s
favourite. Tbis Has been tbe
acknowledged and honoured
position beld by Pears’ Soap for
nearly 120 years. It won, and bas
maintained tbat position by virtue
of its complete purity, and by tbe
possession of tbose special emollient
properties wbicb soften, refine,
and impart natural colour to tbe
sKin. No otber soap possesses
these qualities in such a pre«
eminent degree as
PEARS
Matchless for the Complexion*
Farmer’s High-Grade FoOtWCdf
FROM THE WORLD’S FINEST MANUFACTURERS.
BI. —GENTLEMEN’S SPECIAL- VALUE
BOOTS, in Tan Calf, Derby, and Balmoral;
splendid quality leather,' smart shape;
worth 21/- pair. Price, 16/6.
B3.— TENNIS SHOES, with thick rubber
soles, in White and Brown Canvas, 12/6 ;
in Buckskin, 21/-; in Tan Calf, 25/ -.
Write for our Men’s Wear
Catalogue, sent Post Free
on request.
B2.— ALL PATENT BOOTS ; America’s finest
production. Cut from the finest material, in
Bal. and Derby shapes ; light and flexible;
suitable for any occasion. Price, 35/-.
84.—-GENTLEMEN’S CONTINENTAL FOOT-
WEAR. These are cut from the very finest
skins, and are very pliable. We can fit
any foot. Made in sizes and -} fittings,
anil in the following styles: Glace Kid,
patent caps (as pictured), Glace Kid
Derby, Box Calf Lace, Box Calf Derby,
Tan Calf Lace (dark shade), Tan Calf
Derby (dark shade). Price, 35/-.
FARMER’S, SYDNEY.


Speechless with Wonder
Are the friends of those relieved of Indigestion, and
all Stomach Troubles, by Dr. Sheldon’s Digestive
Tabules. Price, 2s. 6d. per tin.*
STIFF JOINTS.
From whatever source arising there can
be no greater cause of pain than that
inflicted by Stiff Joints. Like a badly fitting
door, the bending or straightening of the leg
'«5 ?
or arm, or the part
affected moves with a
jar, so excruciatingly
painful that it is
only a matter of time
before the joints be-
come fixed. Bathing,
friction, oils, lini-
ments and ointments
have in thousands of
cases proved utterly
unavailing. Stiff
Joints that resisted
all other treatment
have yielded to the
powerful influence of
Comstock’s Nerve and
Bone Liniment. Per-
severing use' of this
Liniment will cause the most stubborn case
to relax.
Sold by all leading chemists and store-
keepers, price 2s. 6d., or will be sent post
free at same price by the W. H. Comstock
Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street, Sydney.
Auction Sale.
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 26,
AT TWO O’CLOCK,
At Rooms, 281 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Grand City Freehold,
The “ Commercial Travellers’ Club,”
Flinders Street,
Opposite East Entrance Central Passenger Station.
CJ. and T. HAM (in conjunction with
• BAILLIEU PATTERSON & SONS
PTY LTD. and G. G. HENDERSON), are
instructed by the Commercial Travellers’ As-
sociation of Victoria, in consequence of its
contemplated removal to its new premises, to
SELL BY PUBLIC AUCTION, as above-
Land having a frontage of 40ft. to Flinders
Street, by a depth of 140 ft. to 16ft.
right-of-way at rear, on which is erected
that
HANDSOME and IMPOSING PILE
of buildings known as the “Commercial
Travellers’ Club,” comprising basement,
ground floor and six other floors, and
containing spacious entrance-hall and
offices, dining-hall 64ft. x 27ft. 4in., bar,
vestibule, and 92 other rooms, the whole
fitted with full club equipment of modern
comfort and luxury.
The magnificent, central, and wonderfully
accessible position of this property
ON THE CITY FRONT,
facing the central station, practically at the
junction of the principal lines of train,
connecting the great north, south and
eastern suburbs with the two city railway
stations, adjacent to the business premises
of the Metropolitan Gas Company and Ball
and Welch, Limited, gives it unrivalled ad-
vantages for
CLUB, ASSOCIATION, or FLATS,
while its capability of easy conversion to
SPLENDID SHOP PREMISES
should recommend the present opportunity
to the prompt and efficient attention of any
one seeking an
IDEAL CITY EMPORIUM.
Terms. —One-fifth cash, balance in mort-
gage up to 10 years, reducible by equal yearly
instalments of 4J per cent., payable quar-
terly, with right to pay off whole or portion
of purchase money at any time, at one quar-
ter’s notice, or cash at one month.
For particulars of title apply Messrs.
Madden and Butler, Collins Street, and for
further particulars as to the property to C. J-
and T. Ham, 281 Collins Street; Baillieu
Patterson and Sons Pty. Ltd., 375 Collins
Street; or G. G. Henderson, Equitable Build-
ings, Collins Street.
Makes you look man(y
Before
1
After
A Proved Moustache Producer.
Though you have only the “slightest showing of down” on your lip,
CAPILLARINE will assuredly bring to perfection in a very short time
a moustache that you will be proud of. CAPILLARINE is indetectable
in use, and needs only rubbing on with the tips of the fingers before
retiring at night.
PRICE 10/6 A JAR.
Posted to any address in the World in plain wrapper.
The C. & A. Moustache Trainer shapes the Moustache. Worn at
night. 2/6, 3/6, 5/6 each, post free.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE POST FREE.
CRAIG AND AITKEN,
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established 30 Years.
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents—RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLQARDIE.
Brewery and Offices :
Dowling Street, REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Punters with Cup investments in view
will find more warning than encouragement in
these tables of betting figures. A Melbourne book-
maker’s card, published 10 days before the Metrop.,
offered prices as follows. (Previous lists from the
same leading firm had, of course, included a num-
ber of false favorites that were subsequently
scratched, and whose names don’t appear on the card
of temptation, issued 10 days before the event.) : —-
Bookmaker’s Starting Prices
Card. (Melb. Argus).
Flavinius . . . . 20 to 1 . . Non-starter.
Posadas .. .. 20 to 1 . . Non-starter.
Cisco . . . . 25 to 1 . . Non-starter.
Beverage . . . . 25 to 1 . . Non-starter.
Blairgour . . . . 33 to 1 . . Non-starter.
Malt King . . . . 25 to 1 . . sto 1
Didus . . . . 14 to 1 . . sto 1
Lady Medallist . . 12 to 1 . . 10 to 1
Cadonia .. . . 7 to 1 . . 10 to 1
Vice-Admiral . . 10 to 1 . . 14 to 1
Hartfell .. . . 14 to 1 . . 14 to 1
Bridge . . . . 12 to 1 . . 14 to 1
Britain . . . . 12 to 1 . . 14 to 1
Flava .. . . 16 to 1 . . 14 to 1
Sandath . . . . 10 to 1 . . 16 to 1
Los Angelos.. .. 16 to 1 .. 20 to 1
King Bee .. . . 100 to 1 . . 40 to 1
Duke Foote. . . . 20 to 1 . . 50 to 1
Woad . . . . 16 to 1 . . 50 to 1
Lady Lucy . . . . 20 to 1 . . 100 to 1
Piastre . . . . 66 to 1 . . 100 to 1
370 476
It appears, then, that of the 16 starters abovenamed
(three other starters carried no money at all) only
three had been worth backing 10 days before the race.
Two others (Flava and Lady Medallist) did shorten
a couple of points, whilst Hartfell remained sta-
tionary ; but their early backers profited little or
nothing by the risk they took of losing their money
on a non-starter. As for the other 10 horses, they
could be backed at longer prices at the post than the
bookmakers had offered 10 days before. The aver-
age price of the 16 had lengthened from 24 to 1 to
29 to 1; and in the meantime any one, or every one,
of them might have gone amiss in training.
* * * *
The fact that Cisco is the first-born of
his dam is no recommendation of the A.J.C. Derby
winner for Melbourne Cup honors. Lady Wallace
was only a six-year-old when she produced Cisco,
which suggests that some of her later offspring will
be tough ones, anyhow. Nevertheless, the objection
to the smart little colt as a two-mile Cup candi-
date is only negative. His way of winning the
classic event at Randwick was the way of a stayer,
and if he can repeat the offence at Flemington he
will start first favorite for the Cup.
Critics of Comedy King, who reckon him
an over-rated horse, incapable of humping a heavy
weight in front of a first-class field, are always up
against his Essendon Stakes record. With Bst. 111 b.
on his back, and with Son of the Marsh to set the
pace for a mile and more, Comedy King tackled
Trafalgar in the straight and beat him by a length.
Time for the 12 furlongs, 2min. 31lsec. There’s
no questioning the excellence of that particular per-
formance. It was a day of fast times over all dis-
tances, certainly; but none of the other winners were
record-breakers.
The A.J.C.’s four days’ rush for the spoil
saw £29,327 distributed over 24 races. N.S.W.
owners got away with £24,550, while only £2977
and £IBOO drifted to Maoriland and Victoria re-
spectively. Those in the rush were J. O’Brien with
£4208, D. I. Watt with £3555, E. J. Watt with
£2867, E. J. Craven with £2031, W. and F. Moses
with £2015, and F. Merton with £2013. Some 39
other fellows picked up the crumbs which fell from
the rich men’s table. Of the winners, 20 were bred
in the Ma State, two in Victoria, and one each in
Maoriland and England. The efforts of the jockeys
also had a one-sided drift, W: H. Smith and j. Pike
steering five winners each, and W. McLachlan three,
while the remaining 11 events were won by the same
number of different riders.. Altogether the A.J.C.
Spring Meeting seems to have been the Ma State’s
ideal of a Federal bargain.
The Randwick Plate was the star event
of the last day of the Spring Meeting. Prince Foote
carried the bulk of the public money, but he is
either off-color or incapable of humping 9st. 61b.
over two miles. After passing the five furlongs
post, on the journey towards the straight, he faded
right out and finished unplaced. Trafalgar, who
won easily from Cadonia and Bridge, has now per-
formed the hat trick, so far as this event is con-
cerned. In the paddock afterwards, the Mitchell
brothers’ good and faithful old servant looked as cool
and blandly calm as though he had just completed
an exercise walk.
The Dowling Steeplechase was an unsensational
affair to watch. Hautapu fled to the front from the
start, and, jumping faultlessly, was 20 or 30 lengths
ahead after the first mile. He was never collared,
and won by the length of half George-street from the
second favorite, Loch Fyne. Leah Kleshna, who was
backed down to 6 to 4, refused at the Kensing-
ton double, and so lost a furlong or two, but she
gave her backers scant hope at any stage of the race.
Blast won the Highweight Handicap, but his ad-
mirers had to buy their money by laying 5 to 2 on
him. Mashtun, the other 5-to-2 on proposition, was
beaten out of a place in the Members’ Handicap, and
another favorite went down in the Final. Altogether,
it Was a gaunt, bony dav for backers.
* * * *
The Prince Alfred Yacht Club (Sydney),
having put up the necessary amount of “stuff,” takes
on the prefix Royal. Hitherto, the yacht squadron
had all the royalty to itself, and the P.A.Y.C. was
looked on as quite a democratic crowd in conse-
quence. Now the brand of the head station is on
that also. But there will always be a freer air
about the P.A.Y.C. Most of its members are mem-
bers of “the Royal,” and in the past they have been
in the habit of being dignified at the Yacht Squadron
and happy at the Prince Alfred. The habit has be-
come chronic. The Royal Prince Alfred Yacht
Club, on Saturday, joined in with the Sydney
Amateur Sailing Club, and opened the season in
style. It was a great afternoon, with just enough
east-nor’-east breeze to make things move pleasantly.
The yachts did not grapple, and the occasion was
strictly snectaeular, with races among the open boats
and dinghies to amuse the ladies, after the Lord High
Admiral had got through the onerous duties which
followed his living of the signal “to come aboard
the flagship.” The order to come aboard the flagship
is always a joyful occasion—the soda-water tastes
better there.
* * * *
The annual struggle between the Rugby-
ites of the North and South Islands of Maoriland is
the occasion for much deep feeling. Maoriland gets
as excited over its hoofball as other lands do over a
foreign war, and for about a month before this
battle—it is generally as much that as a match —-
North and South hate each other with a fierce inten-
sity. But this is the day of the North; and, as
usual, North rubbed the team from what it is pleased
to call “the Antarctic regions,” right out, by 19
points to nine. The South Island is a sullen An-
tarctic place this week.
* * * *
Lord Denman bought four polo ponies
from Queensland last week, at an average of £6O
per steed. The G.G. has a big reputation as a horse-
man, but his powers as a polo-player 'lurk, at pre-
sent, beneath a bushel, as it were. Captain Nut-
ting, a member of his staff, is also buying ponies.
They are an easy pair to mount. Both, it is under-
stood, scale the lightweight limit, at Government
House Stadium, with the utmost ease.
According to the mail accounts, the swim-
ming of the English Channel would appear to be a
feat in drifting, enduring, and taking advantage of
the'currents, rather than swimming. In fact, except
in the last dash for the shore against the tide, swim-
ming, apart from the ability to keep afloat, appears
to have had but little to do with Burgess’s great
achievement. For seven years he had been struggl-
ing at intervals in the Channel, and his successful
effort was the 14th attempt. During his previous
excursions he learned a lot about the currents. There
is, of course, no doubt that on his former attempts
he was just as great a swimmer as on his last and
successful effort; but it was his knowledge of the
drift that got him over this time, in 22 hours 35
minutes. It was a wonderful feat of endurance, for
his only protection from the cold of the water was a
thick coating of lard that had been scientifically
laid on. He protected his head with a swimming
cap, and the sea was kept out of his eyes by goggles.
But they did not work well, and at one time his
eyes were very much inflamed. His chief trouble
was three hours of sickness; but he overcame it.
For 15 solid hours he kept up a regular motion of
24 strokes to the minute. Talk about club-swinging!
Stings from jelly-fish were minor troubles, though
they made him throw a few objurgations around.
To keep him up he was supplied with hot milk, cho-
colate and grapes every half-hour, and he howled
loudly for gingerbeer; but, as it was known to be
harmful, it was strictly barred. Nearing the French
coast, he “got the blues,” and demanded that the
Crew of the motor-boat should sing. Someone started
the “Miserere” from “Trovatore,” but he threatened
to leave the water if that was kept up, and deman-
ded the “Marseillaise.” This cheered him mightily
till he got an attack of cramp over the heart, which
compelled him to heave to for tabloids and pepper-
mint. The real struggle commenced 400 yards from
Cape Grisnez, where a current gripped him and
threatened to carry him down the coast. Then he
put his ears right back, and by a gigantic effort
managed to beat the tide and struggle ashore.
Apparently the modern Englishman is not the
stolid cuss his forefather claimed to be but
probably wasn’t, for when Burgess got to
land he burst out crying, and some of his party
howled with him, much to the amusement of the
Frenchmen. The only fly in his ointment was that
he had not equalled Captain Webb’s time, that
tough old seadog having paddled over in 21 hours
45 minutes.
Sydney’s second round of first-grade
cricket commenced on Saturday under ideal batting
conditions. But, for some reason, environment went
for nothing, and the ball dominated the situation.
Only two batsmen blossomed into centuries. Good,
old reliable “Mary Ann,” the world’s greatest cric-
keter, piled up 118 in 170 minutes, against Balmain
for Paddington; and E. P. Barbour, of University,
did 109 in 125 minutes, against Glebe. The smaller
lights were E. M. Fisher, also of the Uni., who
bashed 88 against the same foe; L. A. Cody and C.
Bosward, of Paddington (75 and 59 against Bal-
main) ; H. L. Collins, of Sydney (67 against North
Sydney) ; and R. B. Minnett, of Uni. (65 against
Glebe). The stars among the bowlers were R. Makin,
of Redfern, who took five Middle Harbor stumps for
31 ; and J. Randell, of Middle Harbor, who got away
with four Redfern stumps for 25. F. Middleton, of
North Sydney, scattered five Sydney wickets for 45.
Woolcott, of Middle Harbor, badly damaged four lots
of Redfern timber for 37 ; and S. Emery, of Redfern,
retaliated by taking five Middle Harbor wickets for
37. In the actual scoring, Paddington, owing to
Noble’s big figures, topped the list with 283 for seven
wickets. Burwood put up 183, and Gordon re-
sponded with 88 for five wickets. Middle Harbor
fairly collapsed before the onslaught of Redfern,
creeping out with a miserable 79. Redfern replied
with 184, and then Middle Harbor lost one wicket
for one run. Petersham popped up 189, and Central
Cumberland smacked up 104 for the loss of three
wickets. Sydney totted up 163, and North Sydney
responded with 50 without losing a wicket.
Died, last week, James Thompson, of
Rylstone (N.S.W.), one of the biggest horse-breeders
the State ever sheltered. From his stud the famous
Lochiel and Grafton strain of blood-horses was spread
throughout Australia, and the winners of races
which were bred by him are as easy to count as
the sand of the sea-shore. At last year’s yearling
sales, the firm of which James Thompson was the
head submitted 61 prads, which realised 13,5521
guineas.
* * * *
The English railway directors are chewing
the cud of reflection somewhat bitterly over the
recent big strike. While +he trains were held up
people who had motor vehi les of any sort made a
mighty harvest with passengers and freight. Some
of the big firms found that, with a little organisa-
tion, they could evolve a cheaper service than the
railways supplied, and now a number of the big
motor firms are placing freight cars on the roads,
and cutting into the traffic for parcels and
small lots in a way that the railway magnate re-
gards as simply fiendish.
The various State cycling bodies have
now sorted out their representatives for the big
Warrnambool affair, and in the bike world it is the
calm before the storm. The Launceston-Hobart
(Tas.) struggle was a very swift affair, in which
J. C. Keenan slithered over the 120 miles from the
12min. mark in 6hr. 22min., winning the first
prize, the road championship of Tasmania, and the
right to carry the Tassy banner in the Warrnambool.
Also, he chipped 22min. off the previous best time,
and cut a great dash generally. South Australia’s
sweating match was over the 100 burning miles that
lie between Burra and North Adelaide. The favorite,
W. E. Grigg, won from scratch in shr. 39min., and
thereby established anew record for the run. He
raked in a five-guinea gold watch, the road cham-
pionship, the blue ribbon of South Australia,
and the right to carry the Crow-eater standard at
Warrnambool. Queensland discovered its rep. in
W. 11. Ilolker. who justified his claim over a 100-
mile run.
Although he is no sport, the Yankee is
thorough enough in some things. With a view to
finding out what the motor-truck is capable of,
someone loaded up a Saurer waggon with a camp
equipment, timber for shoring up bridges, and a
winch with which to haul the contraption out of
bog-holes, provided the bog had an adjacent tree to
tie the winch to. Then the procession left ’Frisco
for Noo Yark, over a 5000-mile track. The brute
got through. It lost most of its beauty on the way,
but it got through. It is understood to have proved
a lot of things, chief among which are that some of
the Yankee roads are a disgrace to civilisation.
** * *
The ridiculous old balloon race is still
maintained in the U.S.A., mostlv because the local
folk have been in the habit of winning it. This year
the race had hardly started, when fearful weather set
in, and the Yankee balloons became sodden. They
sank, and gave out with a noise resembling the last
exhausted gurgle of an empty soda syphon. Only
the French and German representatives kept afloat,
or a-fly, or whatever is the term, and eventually the
Deutscher won, having careered 75 miles further
than the gentleman from gay Paree. Now the Yanks
will nrobably take a sudden dislike to ballooning.
** * *
“0.K.”: How many more flocks of 20,£00
is Sydney going to provide for the glory of colored
aliens and the stultification of the White Australia
principle? The excuse for the crowd that went to
see Thomas Burns contemptuously clouted by Brud-
der Johnson was in its foolish belief that Thomas
would prove the black man to be an inferior animal.
In the case of McVea v. Lester there was no “cham-
pionship of the world” at stake, nor any widespread
delusion re the respective merits of the boxers. The
crowd looked admiringly for the victory of Black
Sam, as of old it looked for the victory of Black
Peter Jackson over his white opponents. If it de-
rived any racial comfort from the fact that the genial
nigger won on points merely, where he might have
scored by a knock-out, it was a very gullible crowd
anyhow. Where is the sporting interest in a “fight”
between an accomplished representative of the
dominant boxing race and a white man of
the chopping-block order? In London, recently,
a legitimate sporting protest was raised against a
showman’s proposal to give £2OOO to an English-
man who would stand up to be knocked down by
Johnson. The inequality of the men was both a
sporting and a political reason for prohibiting the
unholy show; therefore, the prohibition was thrown
as a sop to the Wowsers. Now, the inequality of
Wells and Johnson wasn’t nearly as certain as the
superiority of McVea to Bill Lang, who is engaged
to suffer a White Australia humiliation on the 28th
inst. Has Sydney any sporting spirit, or national
pride, or common -olitical sense?
If Jack Johnson sidesteps the coming box-
ing season in Australia, the fortune-tellers will pro-
bably be to blame. The champion fairly haunts the
parlors where magic is sold at half a crown a time,
and few important moves are decided on till his
vast paw has been “read,” or till the crystal has
been gazed into on his behalf, or the mysteries of the
astral plane pierced in one way or another. A
favorite method of inducing Johnson to do anything
really big is to recommend him to a magician who
has been previously bribed to warn him that trouble
will result unless he follows the course desired by the
magician-squarer. The Texan calamity is said to
have acquired his present complete faith in the in-
fallibility of the fortune-teller as a result of a visit
paid to one of the tribe a year or so ago. The seer
gazed at Johnson’s 17st. of bone, muscle and ebony
hide, and at his closely-shaven head and blazing
diamonds, hearkened to the stertorous breathing of
his 60-h.p. car in the street without, and then cried
with an inspiring air of certainty, “You are a cham-
pion pugilist.” Johnson has never jeered at a for-
tune-teller since.
* * * »
If wrestling isn’t absolutely brutal it is
at least a sport in which, as the English lordling
said, “they’re demnition rude to each other!” The
Gotch-Hackensehmidt bout was no exception to this
rule. The night before the battle Hackenschmidt
was unnerved. He was worrying about the match,
and felt far from fit, owing to his left knee having
been injured while training. So worried did he be-
come that he was unable to sleep, and demanded to
have the lights turned on. The darkness frightened
him. The trainers became anxious, and at last a
tuneful German, named Koch, was hauled in, filled
with beer, and commanded to sing the “lion” to
sleep. He sang till his throat cracked, but the
“lion” would not be comforted, and spent a ghastly
night. He was intensely nervous all through the
day, and entered the ring with his knee in a band-
age. In the second bout Gotch unbalanced him, but
Hack, recovered quickly. So the noble-minded Gotch
took no risks, and threw away no chances. Crash-
ing into Hack’s injured leg with his own sound
knee, he brought the Russian to the floor in a heap.
“Don’t break my leg!” yelled Hack. And Gotch
didn’t. Instead, he seized him by the toes of the in-
jured member, and forcing them back till they were
just leaving their sockets, compelled Hack., scream-
ing with pain and frothing at the mouth, to turn his
shoulders to the mat in quick order.
* * * *
Mr. Billiam Lang, the well-known pugil-
ist, recently made a matinee appearance as an ama-
teur policeman. Mr. Lang was at a football match
when his ears were assaulted by a turgid flow of
language. Looking round, he found that it pro-
ceeded from a beery gentleman, and observed with
horror that ladies were present. Mr. Lang sat down
beside the offender, and tried moral suasion, but the
only result was to increase the language. So Mr.
Lang rose softly, hoisted the wordy one by the slack
of his pants, and gently shot him forth into the
outer calm. Then. Mr. Lang’s identity becoming
known, various stout people arose, shook him by the
hand, and assured him he was a gentleman.
* * * *
Intense indignation rages in the Yankee
sporting press over the fact that Stanley Ketchell’s
grave is unfenced untended, and devoid of a head-
stone. “Why don’t the men who bummed on him
for drinks put up a memorial?” howl the sporting
papers. “Why don’t the papers for whom he made
interesting copy do the thing decently?” howl the
bummers. In the meantime Ketehell goes without a
headstone. His troubles!
* * * *
Possibly because the King of Spain plays
polo in public whenever he gets a chgnce, the game
has come to be recognised as one in which monarchs
and vice-monarchs may engage without derogating
from their dignity. A queer example of the un-
reasonable arbitrariness of fashion is the fact that
though a Governor (say) may play polo without
scandalising the lieges, there would certainly be an
unholy uproar if he played football, which, after
all, is merely polo minus the animal element. If
Lord Denman announced his intention of riding in a
Caulfield Grand National—a job he is as well fitted
for as most of the “pros.,” on his English form —
there would be a record muster to observe the event;
and it would add to his popularity, and doubtless
amuse him personally. He refrains, presumably
for fear of assisting in the bursting-up of the Em-
pire. It suggests either that the Empire is perilously
fragile, or that the rules which have been framed
for its preservation require drastic revision.
* * * *
E. L. Jones was the one at the Strath-
field (N.S.W.) tennis tourney on Saturday. Although
he was downed by Dr. Sharp in the singles, he easily
made up for it in the doubles, when he and Rice beat
Sharp and Clark by 4-6, 6-4, 8-6. This was far and
away the best game of the afternoon. Jones’s alac-
rity and accuracy and Rice’s step-dancing were good
to look upon. E.L.J. is easily the best doubles player
of the tourney, but the cognoscenti still affirm that
the Brookes-Dunlop combination is the one for the
Davis Cup. In fact, many consider that it is quite
equal to the formidable Brookes-Wilding combina-
tion. Wilding’s absence is now a mournful cer-
tainty, but there is balm in Gilead; it is announced
that, owing to pressure of business, champion Larned
will not represent the U.S.A. Larned is what the
Yankees describe as a “real, howling, ring-tailed
roarer.” Lord knows what it means, but it sounds
terrible, anyhow.
For some reason, the big sculling guns did
not notice the Ulmarra (jN.S.W.) £IUO handicap,
and the small fry had the purse to them-
selves. And there were sixteen of themselves who
put up a very wild struggle, out of which Frank
Starr tottered home winner, with Galton and Atkins
behind him in that order. This Starr is anew
luminary on the horizon, and has been only six
months at the profession, having thrown up a job in
the country to take it on. He is a fresh-water
mariner of the Arnst stable, and his “form” is allur-
ing to the onlooker, though horrible to the other
fellow. In fact, it is so horrible that it has scared
off quite a small crowd of young aspirants. The
second and third men are also water-pups, and of
considerable promise. #
J. Fair, the N.S.W. motor-bikist who
started last Tuesday on the task of establishing a
straightaway record between Sydney and Melbourne,
would probably have done better had he left it till
a little later in the season. Then he would have had
the benefit of a few more hours daylight, and the
roads would certainly have been in better condition.
Harry James ran miles in 24 hours, in the
Western District of Victoria some years ago, and got
over 506 miles in 26 hours; and as the distance be-
tween Sydney and Melbourne is 577 miles, under or-
dinary conditions Fair should have had no difficulty
in getting over the distance in the hours he was
scheduled for.


The Perfect
Entertainer.
The entertainment offered by an Edison
Phonograph is irresistible. It appeals to all
tastes and all ages. It is renewed every time
a new record is bought. It lasts as long as
music is written. No matter how many ideas
are introduced into the making of records, no
matter how many kinds of entertainments,
dialogues, specialties, songs or selections are
made into records, the same Edison Phono-
graph reproduces them all with the same
Edison sweetness, clearness and fidelity.
Select the Edison Phonograph which you
can afford, and be sure that whatever amount
ot money you invest in it, you will get your
money s worth in the enjoyment. Get com-
plete lists from your dealer or from us.
THE EDISON
PHONOGRAPH
National Phonograph Co. of Australia, Ltd.
(Wholesale only),
flapt. 8., 364-372 Kent Street, SVDNEV.
New White Leads Silver Lead Mining Co,
NO LIABILITY.
Sale of Leases, Plant, Buildings and Stores
AS A GOINO CONCERN.
TENDERS are invited, and will be received by the
undersigned, up till MONDAY, the 16th day of
OCTOBER, 1911, for the purchase, in one lot, of the
LEASES, PLANT, BUILDINGS, STOKES, etc., on the
Company’s Mine at Broken Hill.
Inventory and all particulars at Office of Company.
By order of the Board,
D. G. STOBIE, Manager.
31 Queen Street, Nelbourne.
18th September, 1911.
Millars’ Karri 8 Jarrah
Co. (1902), Ltd.
We Supply—
JARRAH Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’ Scant-
ling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68£ PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
JASON
Unshrinkable
HOSIERY.
gsfd
You get more Fuel Miles
out of
SHELL'
than out of any other Motor Spirit
THAT'S WHERE ITS PER-
FECT PURITY SAVES YOU
MONEY.
g
“THE HEART OE THE AUTOMOBILE”—
The. .
Famous
Schebler Carburetor
The best Vaporising: Device for ALL PETROL
ENGlNES—either Land or Marine, Stationary
or Moving:. If you want to get more HORSE-
POWER from your Engine or a GREATER
NUMBER OF MILES PER GALLON use
“THE SCHEBLER.” Booklet and all Infor-
mation Free. Correspondence Invited.
ROBERT C. SWAN & CO. LTD.,
304 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
(The Aoetylene Burner House).
FOR ALL
BLOOD DISORDERS
xsurn
wm
wiwriwiwiwm
Packets, 3d., 6d. and Is
[2A
00 (double‘o')
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS
are Nature’s Remedy.
The days of outward applications in the treatment of piles are over, What ointments
did temporarily is now done by Murphy’s Pile Pills permanently* They are equally
effective in the treatment of Doth external and internal piles, no matter how long-
standing or how severe the case.
They eradicate the trouble by purifying the blood, which no outward application
can possibly do. They are non-aperient, can be taken with the utmost safety, give instant
relief, and effect a speedy and permanent cure.
Murphy’s Pile Pills are sold by all leading chemists and storekeepers. If you cannot
obtain supplies, send Postal Note for 3s. to the proprietors, and a box will be sent you,
post free.
GET A BOX TO-DAY.
SOLE PROPRIETORS:
ANDREW MURPHY, Ltd.,
Oept. B, 109 Regent St.,
SYDNEY.
MEN or TASTE
sfdg
are convinced of the wisdom of wearing 1 “Rigney” footwear.
The Rigney Shoe is a strictly high-qualitv shoe, made for
service and comfort from the very best materials.
The Shoe illustrated is a Choice Tan Willow Calf Oxford
Shoe, smart shape, very serviceable and comfortable.
Price 18/6. Postage 9d. extra.
SEND FOR A COPY OF OUR CATALOG.
The Rigney Shoe Co.,
• #
“ The Men’s Exolusive High-
Grade Shoe Stores,”
305 George St., Sydney,
and 179a Pitt St., Sydney
Please note that the new shop in Pitt Street is under the personal management of Mr. F.
the sole and only proprietor of the above firm.
!. Rigney*
/■
A. M. L. 6 F. CO. Ltd.
(Australian Mercantile, Land S Finance Co., Ltd.)
♦♦ * FOR .* „
Top Prices. Quick Returns.
Liberal Advances When Required.
Wool, Produce and Grain
Salesmen,
Stocß and Station Ag'ents,
B. B. ALLEN,
Wool & Produce
Manager.
SYDNEY
JAMES KIDD,
Manager.
Also at Melbourne Brisbane
THE PERFECT TRIUMPH .
The “Triumph” Motor Cycle is one with great speed possi-
bilities. But it is also reliable. It takes you to your destina-
tion in very short order, over practically any road you want to
drive it.
No other cycle has a more flexible, reliable engine, or a car-
buretter that could give less trouble. Come in and let us show
you other good points connected with the “Triumph.”
PRICE, £67/10/-
BENNETT (EL BARBELL, LTD.,
Sole Agents for “Triumph,” Rudge-Whitworth and 8.5. A.,
Motor Cycles, and Manufacturers of “ B. & B.” Motor Cycles,
234 PITT STREET, and CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
sfdg
N*‘
w . ,
H
u UN Lo p
BAIATA
smNsk£s3&M.
/
4k i'-r%
■
re
flt
2
m
w$
JdL ■■
THE
QUALITY
OP-
Dunlop
ENGINEERING
RUBBER GOODS
Ensures You 3<atbfaction-
Long Wear and Economy.
SAMPLES AND PRICES
ON APPLICATION.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
108 Flinders St., Melb.
255 Clarence St ,
Sydney.
92 Pirie St., Adelaide
268-270 Adelaide St..
Brisbane
67 King St., Perth.
Worcester Street.
Christchurch
Once more the Law in N. S. Wales has
been ruminating over the old question of
what is “a place.” This time it meandered
in from the town of Coonabarabran. There
a whiskified party was summoned for being
drunk and disorderly in a public place, to
wit, the Schools of Arts, somewhere about
midnight, and playing cricket with the time-
piece, waterbottle and other artistic fittings.
The magistrate, after hearing sound argu-
ment, unsound platitudes and plain non-
sense, dismissed the charge on the ground
that, in the circumstances, the School of
Arts was not a public place. Whereupon
the cop in charge of the case had the law on
the beak, and the Crown Solicitor hired a
friendly horsetail to lend him (the cop) a
hand. Neither the beak nor the clock-
hurler appeared to say a word in their own
favor, but even with this advantage, the
friendly horsetail was unable to convince
the Judge in Chambers that a School of Arts
was a public place where clocks could not
be battered with impunity or anything else
handy. Which verdict will probably meet
with the entire concurrence of the clock-
manufacturing business. Certainly it met
with the approval of the gent in the clock-
wrecking business.


THOUSANDS OF NEW IDEAS IN WEDDING GIFTS AT
A. SAUNDERS
THE DIRECT AND LARGEST IMPORTER OE THE CHOICEST UP-TO-DATE
HUP’ SILVERWARE, OFFERED TO YOU AT THE SMALL ONE-PROFIT PRICES.
Let us Send you our Magnificent 180-Page Silverplate Catalog. It’s Free.
£2/15/.
HOT-WATER KETTLE and STAND,
Pure Silver-plated, Richly Hand
Embossed or Encraved; Rustic Stand.
25/-
BISCUIT BARREL, Polished Eng-
lish 'Oak, Pure Silver-plated, Highly
Burnished Mounts, Patent Handle,
Carved Feet.
EUGAR and CREAM CASTORS, Pure
Silver-plated Nickel Silver, Hand-
decorated, Real China.
7/6.
CAKE or FRUIT DISH, Pure Silver-plated,
Fancy Floral China.
15/6.
AFTERNOON TEA SPOONS and TONGS, Pure
Silver-plated. Fnihos°"d Handles.
10/6.
Pure Silver-plated on Nickel
Silver CRKAM JUG, Gilt-
lined.
WE PAY
POSTAGE
ON ALL
GOODS
except
CHINA.
CHINA DESSERT DISH, Hand-painted, Floral
Design, Full Size. Other Styles, 4/6, 5/6, 6/6.
£2/5/.
LIQUEUR BOTTLE, Hobnail Cut
Glass, Pure Silver-plated Nickel
Silver Frame.
TEA-STRAINER and DRIP STAND,
Silver-Plated, Hard Metal
Base.
mmz-
7/6.
TWO-BRANCH SPECIMEN TUBE,
Pure Silver-plated, Floral Design,
Burnished, Gilt Lined.
207-
jam DISH, Pure Silver-plated
Nickel Silver, Fine English Cut
Crystal Glass.
22/6.
CHINA TEA SET, 40
Pieces, Handsome Floral
and Gilt Design.
2^
IfV?
ESQ
25/-
WAITER, Silver-plated on Nickel Silver,
Hand-engraved, Fancy Edge, 8 inches.
Larger, 30/, £2/10/, £3.
8-HOUR
ART
UNION
TICKETS,
1/- EACH,
POST
FREE.
sfd
£650
FIRST
PRIZE.
BUY A
LUCKY
TICKET
NOW.
15/6.
CAKE BASKET, Handsomely Embossed.
“Grape” Design. Highly Burnished.
£2/10/.
AFTERNOON CAKE STAND, Comprising Sugar and
Cream, Cake, Bread, and Butter Trays, Pure Silver-
Plated on Nickel Silver, Highly Burnished, Gilt Lined,
Handsomely Fluted, on Ball Feet.
12/6.
BREAD SERVER, Pure Silver-plated Nickel Silver,
Mother-o’-Pearl Handle.
5/6.
TEAPOT STAND, Fancy Tile Base, Silver-plated
Frame.
SALAD BOWL and SERVERS, Handsomely Decorated
Blue China, Silver-plated Nickel Silver Mounts.
VEGETABLE DISH, Pure Silver-
plated Nickel Silver, Highly Bur-
nished, 2 Divisions.
WM
At,*-
Silver-plated Nickel Silver SUGAR
BASIN and TONGS, Blue Glass
Lining.
mnvtlni
m i
8/6.
HONEY or SUGAR JAR,
Silver-plated Frame, Fancy
“Pansy” Design, China
Bowl.
»v-S
5/6.
BUTTER DISH, Pure Silver-plated,
Highly Burnished and Fluted; Glass
Dish.
10/6.
JUVENILE SINGLE EGG-CUP,
STAND, and SPOON, Silver-plated,
Highly Burnished and Fluted.
•J» l
»)))
15/6.
FERN POT, Pure Silver-
plated, Richly Embossed
and Fluted.
10/6.
BREAKFAST CRUET,
Pure Silver-plated,
Cut-glass Bottles.
FOUR BRANCH FLOWER STAND, Silver-
plated Frame, Golden-tinted Glass Tubes.
TEAPOT, Pure Silver-plated, Richly
Hand-engraved and Fluted.
15/6.
PICKLE JAR and FORK, Pure
Silver-plated Nickel Silver, Crystal
Glass Jar.
imt
&
E.IHI
rlrlrl
IS
pip
r|r
17/6.
DINNER CRUET, Pure Silver-plated;
Crystal Glass Bottles.
£2/10/.
BREAD BOARD and KNIFE, Pure Silver-plated,
Richly Engraved, Best Sheffield Steel Blade Knife.
JEWELLER/
tMAKERj
gsfd
SYDNEYS LEADING JEWELLER.
807.809,811.815.815.817. GEORGE ST. f Opposite Railway Station) SYDNEY.N.S.W.
,
y cO »SULT%i
koPTICIAN^


H
m
\»A
Win
VERY careful man has an Oncto Pen—and every
careful woman too.
It’s a pen for the careful—always ready to write
and write well.
, __. , It has two supreme merits —it FILLS itself
rom any ink supplv and it CANNOT
LEAK.
Are YOU careful—then ask yout
stationer tor an
Onoio
Pen
Self-Filling . .
Safety Fountain
Price 12/* and upwards aw
all stationers, stores,
jewellers, <Src.
Made in Britain by British
labour.
Booklet about the ONOTO
PHN free on application to
'lhos. De l a Rue & Co., Ltd.,
290, Bunhill Row, E-C. or the
Australasian Representatives
Baker <ft I.onghurst, 50 York
Street. Sydney.
IP.IPORT ANT.—For those who require alarrer
pen with a very flexible nib, a s| eeial modal
—the new G, lias been put 011 the market.
It is exceptional value for the money.
Try this new G at your stationer's.
Also ask him for Onoto Ink, the best for
fountain and other pens.
Protect Your Feet t? wearing Patent Asbestos Socks.
■! '■ j
\
k/,‘;.v.v
spa
/^v.v.V
Befort Using.
No More Pains In the Feet. The Comfort Experienced
IP * earing Asbestos Socks Is Absolutely Marvellous.
Hot, Perspiring, Inflamed and Tender Feet. Corns,
Bunions and Bad Feet Prevented and Absolutely Cured
b y wearing Patent Asbestos Socks, (soles).
An Army Surgeon discovered that soldiers after marching suffered more from
Soreness of the feet than from actual physical fatigue. After long study he
In! -k . thls £', as d . ue t 0 the lrrit at’°n set up by the smooth leather insoles of
| men boots. The Asbestos Socks, made from impregnated asbestos with a
slightly rough grained surface prevents the foot slipping inside, and walking is
thus less tiring. Asbestos being a non-conductor the feet are kept
.Tn, 6 Va . rl^ tlons caused bv hot or cold weather, a genuine joy
in d^ e io« g i In fact the comfort experienced
so . cks Is absolutely marvellous. Try a
pair at once. Satisfaction Guaranteed or money refunded.
They will renew the feet of anyone wl.o has to stand long or do much
waking, such as shop assistants, policemen, nursel, sailors,
soldiers, postmen, cyclists, athletes etc. Made in two qualities, 1/- and
Z/- per pair, postage 2d pair extra. Six pairs either quality sent for price of
...... 1 o State size and name this paper.
Universal Supply Co. 460 George St. Sydney, N.S.W.
After Using.
Wbat is AEROCEN CAS
It is Petrol Air Gas (non - explosive)
produced by a weight-driven machine.
The Ideal Light for Country Houses,
Stores, Hotels and Billiard Rooms.
The following are some of the users
New South Wales Railways Departments; New
South Wales Public Works Departments; Mr. L. A.
Dangar, Warialda ; Mr. D. Copland, Wagga ; Mr.
J. Loneragan, Mudgee; Victorian Railway Depart-
ments; Victorian Home Affairs Departments; Sir
John Madden; Mr. H. Alan Currie; Mr. H. W.
Grimwade; Mr. Gordon Chirnside; Mr. Ernest
Austin ; Major C. Campbell.
For further particulars and catalogues apply to:
Sole Agents for Australia :
PHILIPS & PIKE, Equitable Buildings, Sydney;
St. James’s Buildings, Melbourne.
Distributing Agents :
HANNAMS, Ltd., Sydney; CIIAS. ATKINS & Co.,
Ltd., Adelaide; ALCOCK & Co., Pty., Ltd.,
Perth ; E. RICH & Co., Ltd., Brisbane : V.
REID & Co., Ltd., Rockhampton; ALF SHAW,
LTD., Townsville.
m
m
rillHi rrrr
• iii
sr//>
<2=**
5
The Brooks that run up-hill
and down dale all the world over are——
BROOKS
SADDLES.
A long life and a steady one,
\ is their motto, for their perfection of
build and material makes all
the Brooks models not only
durable, but most effective
in absorbing vibration.
Of all deah rs.
TnTTXT I * 6 XT A rnTr a i l ? < ? excellence of ICILMA toilet preparations is due to the virtues of the
ICILMA NATURAL SPRING IN ALGERIA.
ICILMA
FLUOR
CREAM.
Drives out of the skin all that makes it look old and sallow, and all that renders it liable
to. irritations from heat and wind.
rnlnrww£ ulates the P rod H ction > t>y nature itself, of that firm, soft, white skin and lovely
color wmcn every woman long's to keep always.
it cannot grow hair. Needs no powder to hide it.
'from^sunbura 6 ' 1 Wdl int ° the Skin BEFORE soing out, protects even the most
Price 2/- pot.
Alt Chemists and Stores.
Send 3d. Stamps to-day for Sample Tube te
ICILMA DEPOT DEPT., 139 York Street, SYDNEY.
mi
8
%
8
A
ec^ u APPO, "n,
Y
*
s
HER EXCELLENCY
THE COUNTESS OF DUDLEY.
SteidlegLux
294 Collins Street,
.. MELBOURNE ..
The Latest and Most
Exclusive Designs in all
ARTIFICIAL HAIR
ACCESSORIES.
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE. POST FREE.
V./
For Comfort and Durability,
invest in one of our latest
HAIR SUPPORTS.
PIN CURLS, various
Styles and Sizes,
from
3'6
THE “BANKER
AERATED WATER
MACHINE.^>-
No. 905—The “ Banker" 1910 Model, with Automatic Turnover Syrup Rack and latest improvements.
Sold on Easy Terms. Backed with our 5 Years’ Guarantee.
WORKS LIKE A CLOCK.
THE “BANKER” produces perfectly aerated water —10 gallons can be thoroughly
saturated in three minutes. Better and snappier sodawater than produced by any
other machine. No failure of the working is possible. Connecting pipes pure tin.
Water can be connected direct from the water main, every particle of gas being used. No
perishable rubber hose or tedious rocking of the cylinder.
ACCESSORIES. —Syrups, bottles, cases, gas and every requirement for the mineral
water trade at lowest market rates,
“BANKER” SYRUPING RACK. —The best on the world’s market. Note the solid
construction. The smallest detail has been attended to on the “ BANKER,” and 40 Dozen
canbe filled and syruped by a boy in one hour.
Marble Socle Fountains, Carbonators,
Draft Arms, Ice Boxes* write for particulars.
EVERYTHING SUPPLIED FROM A STRAW TO A SODA FOUNTAIN.
Complete Machines (Rocking System) • £,30
NELSON CARBONATING CO. LTD.,
167 GEORGE STREET NORTH, SYDNEY.
Agents for Queensland - SHORT & WILKINS, Queen Street, Brisbane.
„ „ N.Z. - - A. H. TUCKER & CO., Christchurch.


“UNABLE TO EAT!”
INDIGESTION AND BILIOUSNESS
Cured by
MOTHER SEIGEL’S
SYRUP.
Mrs. C. Mahaney, of 209 Berkley Street,
Carlton, Vic., on May 4, 1911, said: —
“I was but a slip of a girl, between 16
and 17 years of age, when I first began to
suffer from biliousness and indigestion.
“When the attacks were working up, I
would feel out of sorts with everything and
everyone, peevish, low spirited and depressed,
unable to eat, unable to work, and unable
to sleep, with aches and pains here, there
and everywhere. I would get worse and
worse, until at last i would vomit large
quantities of a nasty greenish yellow fluid.
“Then, four years back, these attacks took
a more serious turn. If I ate anything,
however small the meal, my stomach would
be distended, as if I had eaten a hearty din-
ner. The food also caused painful spasms.
I dreaded to go to bed, as 1 was too restless
to lie in one position for more than a few
minutes at a time, and the constant tossing
and turning got on my nerves terribly. I
became so thoroughly ill and weak that I
had to lie up altogether. A friend, however,
persuaded me to try Mother Seigel’s Syrup,
To my great astonishment it gave me almost
immediate ease and relief. A little of this
well-known remedy made a great improve-
ment in my health, and soon it banished all
my troubles.”
Whether you have suffered much or little,
if the cause of your suffering is some dis-
order of the digestive organs, Mother Seigel’s
Syrup is the friend you need. The herbal
extracts of which Mother Seigel’s Syrup is
made tone up and strengthen the stomach,
and gently stimulate the action of the liver
and bowels. Thus the Syrup banishes pains
after eating, wind, palpitation, headaches,
biliousness, constipation and sleeplessness,
and gives you good health.
IF YOU CARRY A
■SWAM
FOUNT
PEN .
you are always ready to “jot it
down.” The “SWAN” has
no intricate or delicate parts
—consequently it never
gets out of order, and is
always ready to write
without adjusting or
coaxing. Good for
a lifetime.
gsfd
Sold by
Stationers
and Jewellers.
Catalogue free
from
MABIE, TODD 8 CO.,
LONDON, or
JAS A. BURKE
(Wholesale Only),
15 WALTHAM BUILDING,
24 Bond Strest, Sydney, N.S.W.
Salimenthol Tablets
for RHEUMATISM.
DO you KNOW of any one who has been cured of
Rheumatism by Mysterious “cureall” pills and
medicines, the composition of which is kept
secret? Of course you do not.
Have you ever known a Doctor to recommend
them or a hospital to use them ? Of course you
have not.
Would anyone but a lunatic take internally an
article containing a drug without knowing what that
drug was? Of course he would not. SALIMEN-
THOL TABLETS and SAMOL Ointment are pre-
scribed by some of the greatest of the world’s Phy-
sicians and Specialists, and are being used in scores
of hospitals.
THERE IS NO SECRET ABOUT THEM.
Particulars of their composition are published,
and can be obtained by anyone.
SALIMENTHOL TABLETS can be taken by the
most delicate, or where an application is preferred,
SAMOL Ointment can be used.
SAMOL Ointment is not an irritant, and does not
require friction when applied. It is a means of
giving Salicylic Ester of Menthol by absorption.
Salimenthol is sold in glass Cylinders, price
3s. 6d. ; and Samol, in Tubes, price, Is. 6d., 3s. 9d.,
and 6s. Obtainable from any chemist, or direct
from the Australian Agent, H. A. Goddard, 3 Eden’s
Buildings, 108 George Street, Brisbane; or branches,
194 Vickery’s Chambers, 82 Pitt Street, Sydney; 9
to 16 Stock Exchange B’ld’gs, Queen Street, Mel-
bourne ; 3 Ellershaw’s B’ld’gs, Cliff Street, Fre-
mantle; 213 Watson’s B’ld’gs, Auckland.
FROM SOUTH AFRICA.
I)\ N
TWO TIPS with
OSPREY.
Black, White,
Cream, and Black
ipped with White
Length, 9 inches.
The Bunch,
Post Free.
We make this Special Offer to
advertise our Ostrich Tips. Write
to-day. Send Postal Note.
Catalogue Free.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY; also at
Comer of Bourke and Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention The Bulletin.] [3
Michel in
Tyres.
THE Australian Magazine. THE LONE
HAND, the National Monthly. Price 6d
ABSOLUTE RELIABILITY. NO BELT TROUBLES.
The 2=Speed Speedwell
as
Motor cycling under Spring weather conditions
is an ideal recreation. The pleasures of such
a pastime are enhanced by the knowledge that
your machine is absolutely reliable —and that,
being gear-driven, there can be no vexatious
bell troubles to mar the enjoyment.
Again, motor cycling is inexpensive if you
select your cycle with judgment.
We invite the closest inspection of the 2-speed
Speedwell, and are ready to give all informa-
tion to anyone contemplating the purchase of a
machine.
For the convenience of those whose time is
too occupied to allow of their visiting us in
ordinary hours, we remain open till 9 o’clock
every Friday Night. Come and let us tell you
of our Special System of Easy Terms.
BENNETT 8 WOOD, LTD.
Comer of Pitt and Bathurst
Streets, Sydney.
50,000 MILES upon a 20-H.P. FORD
upon all roads —under all conditions —and driven
fay innumerable drivers.
STILL AS GOOD AS NEW.
Made second fastest time in the Macedon Hill Climbing
Contest, and was one of the FORD Cars to climb the
Macedon Hill on top Gear.
THE FORDS WERE THE ONLY CARS TO ACCOMPLISH THIS FEAT.
HERE AGAIN IS ABSOLUTE EVIDENCE OF THE
GREAT and LASTING VALUE of the 20-H.P. FORD.
So/e Agents TARRANT MOTORS PTY. LTD.
Telephones:
Central 3030, 2942, 6280, 6534.
104-112 Russell St., Melbourne ,
VU
M
yj/ t
6?
en
Airy
/(/tjC
tn<
To Pipe Smokers
Not the Most Expensive, but certainly
the FINEST Blend of Tobacco produced
in the World for discriminating Smokers.
Unobtainable only from my Stores.
4oz. Tins, 2/-; Boz. Tins, 4/-; 8/- per lb.
ORDER BY MAIL—POSTED FREE.
A. A. MARKS
376 George Street,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
r KELVIN
GENERATING SET
i
THE BEARD British
Built BIOSCOPE.
Second to none for every-
thing that makes the per-
fect Bioscope. The greatest
value for the money.
£37/10/-
TO THE BIOSCOPE SHOWMAN!
The KELVIN
PORTABLE
Engine 8 Dynamo
The most reliable set you can buy at
anything like the price.
The Cinematograph Showman doesn’t
want anything better. It is noted for its
simplicity and its low, full consumption.
Absolutely the most suitable apparatus
for Cinematograph Shows than anything
else in the world.
Easy to start- —gives no trouble —does
its work perfectly.
Two-cylinder Engine, 50 Amps, 60 Volts,
Dynamo, Shunt Regulator, Switch-board,
Tool Box, etc. Quite complete, and
mounted on substantial truck, with remov-
able sides and top.
ASK US TO SEND YOU MAKER’S SPECIFICATION.
JERDAN'S,
“MY OPTICIANS,”
Opticians and Electricians,
393 George Street
(Facing
Royal Hotel),
Sydney,
guaranteed.
Half-Price Watch Offer!
To advertise our Famous “Corn Cob” Tobacco and
our “King of All” Cigars, we sell you this Railway
Dial 10/6 Watch for 3/11, and guarantee it as a
timekeeper for five years.
Here is the way to get this watch under half-price—
make any purchase from this list: —
K
KING OF ALL REINA VICTORIA.
4 a 1/-, posted; 5 for 1/-, over the counter.
Sample Box of 10, 2/6, Post Free.
Box of 100, 18/6, Post Free; 50 for 9/6, Post Free.
KING OF ALL BUENOS, 6d. EACH.
3 for 1/-; 50 for 16/6: 100, 32/6, Post Free.
TOBACCO:
2oz. Corn Cob, packet, cut light or dark, lOd.; Watch, 3/11. Postage, 6d. Total,
5/3. Inter-State, 2d. extra. The Watch only, 10/6, Post Free. p , Q _.
4oz. Corn Cob, plug, light or dark, 1/4. The “Corn Cob Watch, 3/11.
6d. Total, 5/9. Inter-State, 3d. extra. Per lb. Boxes, 6/- 2oz. packets,
6/6. Inter-State, 3d. extra.
CRAIG AND AITKEN
654 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
Established 80 Years.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted, whether sent by post or handed
in; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps
(of any State) accompany.
W.V.: “Plug” is a fine explosive yarn, |
but there isn’t much of it, and the blown-up person
arouses little interest. .. .304: It is so dull that we
wouldn’t doubt its truth for a moment.... Kanuck:
Yes, the Canadian Pacific railway paid 4 per cent,
on preference, and 94 on ordinary stock. And if
this writer had a free hand he could make the N.S.W.
State railways do better than that, at much less
cost. He would simply hand over the State’s public
lands to the Railway Department, as Canada handed
its lands to the C.P. railway, and call the land re-
venue railway revenue, and the thing would be done..
Uckle: Passed out reluctantly on the casting vote of
the horse reporter... Bellerive: The poet who makes
careful inventories of his bygone delicious sins is
sometimes merely the big brother of the small boy
who darkly confesses to many acts of piracy on the j
Spanish Main. However: —
A STRAIGHT PATH FOR A GUIDE. I
Gay men may boast of
Their cards races and Wine
And the hearts they’ve left
To ponder and pine
Give me a clear conscience
What ever betide
Honest toil for a living
And a straight path for a guide.
’Tis hideous folly to
Rogue, plunder and plan
It brings ruin and disgrace
And life’s only a span
Give me a clear conscience
Whatever betide
Honest toil for a Living
And a straight path for a guide.
....Phoenix: Back to the ashes. .. .A. 8.8. (V.) :
Declined with yawns. .. .H.R.R. (Q.) : No value....
Hannibal: Fairly crude work. ... J.S.A. (W.A.) : A
cheery jingle, but it won’t chime in anywhere....
Hero: Unsuitable. .. .N.G. (age 17): You are un-
usually wild for one so young. Six yelps:—
MODERN WOMEN.
Oh ye modern women
With your harems and your hobble,
Ye cannot even walk straight
But merely strut and wobble.
With your figure, O ! so slim
Your corset strings pulled tight
Gan you wonder men are shy
And keep away in fright?
Oh woman in a Beehive bonnet
Or the latest ostrich feather,
What are your emotions when you don it?
Not of your home on that I’ll swear.
Emancipated woman in your trousers
Henpecked men are in the background,
A damn, a swear for ancient Wowsers
Oh women what are you coming to ?
You “goff” and “mote” the whole day long
In skirts whose lengths are shocking,
What would your ancient grandsires say
To see you show your stocking ?
At night in frocks decollete
You do the round and splash at bridge
While hubby who at home must stay
Cooks the kids and baths the eggs.
... .D.D.: Not B. stuff. Try it on one of the week-
lies.... J.: Ring Jess up on the ’phone, and ask her
if she loves you. . . .H.C.8.: Mechanical humor....
R.C. (S.A.) : Far too young and tender.... Armis:
Printed by special request of the Sydney Howlo-
phone Suppression League:—
I am living now in ——- Street
They have a phonograph downstairs.
Nearly every night a party meet
And play a hundred airs;
I have a room-mate nearly deaf
But won’t admit the fact
Talks quite loudly to himself
Unconscious of the act!
The tram ran off the line quite near
There were cries, and groans, and shocks.
He smiled. “They say I’m deaf. Why I can hear
Waddlebat’s musical boxl”
... Dorothea: Some grace,* but not sufficient skill...
D. M. Mac: Burnt the martyr cheerfully. He was a
long, dull martyr. . . .F.E.A. (M.L.) : Verses have no
value whatever. Returning MS. Cannot answer
queries by letter.... Boronia: Monotonous and com-
monplace... .Esdalia: Hope again in 10 years....
Benzy: The marginal note, “The author’s dead a
long time,” disarms us. Basketed in silence.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CONTRIBUTORS.
T. Glover: Fairly humorous, but the drawing is
hardly good enough.... Ekom: The drawing won’t
do, and the moral isn’t as plain as two or three
comedy stars that The Bulletin has seen lately....
P.P.P.: The idea of depicting the bookmaker as a
spider is so wildly novel that it would probably
break up the older e-eneration. Go slow with these
mad innovations.... Alf K : Poor picture and very in-
ferior fish pun. . D.L.H.: Sorry; pictures hardly suit-
able. You give no address for return, except the
name of a very big city, and the stamps you send
are, unfortunately, of no value here.... Cirkus:
; None of them struck us. In fact, we dodged....
Jessup: Doesn’t seem either humorous or probable.
The caddy is sometimes supposed to swear. But he
seldom states in advance that he is a horrible curser.
You find that out as you go on.
The language of “Mayne Stay” :
So it has come at last. The A.U.S.N. Co. is ad-
vertising that it wants cadets on its ships. It pro-
poses to charge £5O premium, and pay £9O in the
shape of wages, that is £4O for four years’ work. I
wrote years ago that the Australian shipowner would
have to do somethin"- to keep up the supply of
mates. The premium system is the most economical,
but it is about played out in England, and I hardly
think it will be rushed in Australia. Outside the
status of cadet and the brass button that maketh
glad the heart of the flapper, I fail to see the ad-
vantage of it, although all of us who served an ap-
prenticeship have a leaning towards the young idea
being trained in the same way. (Trained is merely
a figure of speech.)
A boy of 17, with any brain, can, in a couple of
years, learn all that a Junior officer needs to know,
even on our coast, except enough breadth of shoulder
to carry the responsibility of keeping a watch on
his own. As the law does not require a certificate
for a junior officer, it is going to be a very paying
proposition to have cadets at £lO a year to do what
the companies now pay £lO a month for.
If there is any guarantee to provide billets for the
cadets when the indentures are up, the scheme is not
quite so one-sided as it might be if it was more one-
sided than it would be under the above circum-
stances.
Meanwhile the poor misfortunate mate is going to
have an additional burden, and by no means a light
one. thrust upon him. Still, perhaps, he will find
compensations. Boys at £3 a month are none too
easy to find nowadays, so if the new departure is to
receive his early instruction in the art of wielding
brass rag and broom, as in the sailing ship days, he
may come in handy. If he is to be of the bridge
ornament type, my cadet, when he materialises, will
receive a thorough grounding in the keeping of logs
and overtime, and making up accounts'of wages for
all ratings. One day this innovation might even
bring me within coo-ee of an eight-hour day myself.
Speaking by and large: Good luck to the Australian
coasting cadet.


Hi
a
m
s?S
t;
m
Wi&m
'J-W
m
m
k'k\
m
%,, '
>«k
m ID
X?,
v^l
y*«£
iß£>
uui
3s
■sir:
#-
-v:
mm:
WSPS.
"%r
yferi^
%\Vf„. -*
<
l\. '
JPcctfe <& Sa/ft4
takers of flifh- Grade Pianos
A German Opinion of BEALE PIANOS
“ M usical Opinion and M USIC T rade Review,” London, July, 1911, says:—
“A Hamburg trade journalist, who has just returned from the Antipodes, states that the pianos
"manufactured by the Beale Company in Sydney greatly resemble in touch and in tone those tiirned
“out at the best German factories. The Beale is sold at forty-five pounds and upwards, and enjoys
“a good reputation not only in Australia but in India, Java, South Sea Islands and other colonial
“countries with hot climates. The ‘Hamburger’ fears that if these British colonials extend their piano
“manufacturing operations there will be little room left for continental makers in the musical
“instrument line.”
BEALE HIGH-GRADE PIANOS.
‘•The Utmost Care in tlie Smallest Details.**
Uprights, £45 to 135 Guineas. Horizontal Grands, 150 to 250 Guineas.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE IF YOU CANNOT CALL.
0.
0
A L
L T
378 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY (3 Doors from G.P.0.)
127 RUNDLE ST., ADELAIDE, S.A.
107 SWANSTON ST., MELBOURNE
837 HAY ST., PERTH, W.A.
90-92 QUEEN ST., opp. Pike Bros., our new and ONLY Address in BRISBANE.
Offices also at Newcastle, Bathurst, Orange, Goulburn and Broken Hill, N.S.W.; Maryborough. Rockhampton, Mackay
and Townsville, Q. ; Kalgoorlie, W.A. cash or easy terms, write for catalogue. 25 years’ guarantee.
Head Office and Factories - - TRAFALGAR ST., AN NAN DALE, SYDNEY.
Save Middlemen’s Profits by Buying Direct from the Manufacturers.


Unsightly Eruptions are
Needless Afflictions
Those who suffer from pimples,
blackheads and other disfiguring
facial eruptions; red, rough hands,
itching, burning palms and shape-
less nails; dry, chin and falling
hair, with itching, scaly scalps—
all should make trial at once of
Cuticura Soap and Cuticura Oint-
ment. No other emollients cost
so little and do so much. No
others so pure, so sweet, so speed-
ily effective for torturing, disfig-
uring eczemas, rashes, irritations,
scalings and crustings of infants,
children and adults.
Cuticura Soap and Cuticura Ointment are sold
throughout the world Send to R. Towns A Co..
Sydney, N S W . tor free 32-page hook on the
elila and liberal trial box ot Cuticura Ointment.
An
Experiment.
If you would like to see the alteration Grey
Hairs make, just lay a piece of paper over each of
the two halves of the above portrait. The Grej’
“ half ” will then be seen to have the appearance
of 45 years of age, whereas the other half looks
only SO. Dr. B. Allen’s (U.S.A.) Mexican Walnut
Stain will make all those years of difference if you
are grey or prematurely grey. It is perfectly
harmless, easy to apply, and will quickly restore
the hair to the natural shade of youth, or younger
years.
Dr. B. Allen’s (u. B .a.>
Mexican
Walnut Stain
is offered as a Superior Stain. It contains no lead,
mercury, silver, sulphur, etc., and is equally suit-
able for Ladies’ Hair, or Hair of the Beard or
Moustache. None genuine without the signature
of —Alfred Ardley (Registered in the Patents
Office of the Commonwealth).
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
g
Rat
Death
a Reliable Rat Destroyer
Prepared from formula supplied
by DR. BURNETT HAM.
Price
per large
Tin.
Very Attractive and Always Fatal to RATS and MICE.
WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTING AGENT—
DUERDIN 8 SAINSBURY, MELBOURNE.
Before
HARE’S
COMPOUND
will grow a LUXURIANT
MOUSTACHE, and cover
Bald Patches when all else
fails.
Price, 5/6 Post Free.
After
London Specialities Agency,
41 OASTLERISAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
HORROCKSES’
LONGCLOTHS and
MADAPOLAMS
LATEST VICTORY
GRAND PRIZE
BRUSSELS
EXHIBITION, 1910
G. &G. 3001
have a guarantee if they will see
HORROCKSES’ name on Selvedge that they
are getting the very beat that the Old Country
Produces.
Decline all Substitutes
So'd by all First-Class Drapers and Storekeeners.
COUCHS
TRADE
MARK
For Coughs of
rail kinds Freeman’s
—the Original—Chlorodyne brings quick and sure relief. It stops
the trying night cough, enabling the sufferer to secure restful sleep.
In cases of Influenza, Bronchitis, Asthma, and other Chest complaints
FREEMAN’S effects the most gratifying results. 1/IJ, 2/9&4/6 per bottle.
___ Used by Doctors all over the World. Refuse imitations, which,
cannot possibly possess the wonderful healing powers of Freeman's.
If your chemist
is out of stock,
order a bottle,
he can quickly
get it
FREEMAN’S
CHLORODYNE
&
*1
LC
%
On busy days
when it’s “ too much bother” to cook, then it’s “ Skipper”'
Sardines to be sure. No trouble to prepare —-just a turn-
of the key and you have as dainty a dish as was ever set
before a king. “Skippers” are re different from the old sorts.
Skipper Sardines
Sole Proprietors : ANGUS WATSON & Co., Newcastle-on-Tyne, England.
j*‘ Keep smiling—there’s always Skipper Sardines 1
SPALDING GOLD MEDAL
Are the most correctly modelled and highly-
finished clubs ever turned out by any manu-
facturer, and whether driver, brassie or iron,
each has beeh selected with the greatest care
from the playing clubs of the most celebrated
amateurs and professionals.
Every head is cut from a clear block of
either Dogwood or Persimmon, and the irons
have all hand-forged heads, hammered on our
own forges at Putney Wharf, London. Every
shaft is specially selected from the finest sun-
dried, split Hickory obtainable, and only
the most experienced workmen are engaged
to make up these clubs.
Prices : Drivers or Brassies, 10/6; Irons, 9/“
* All goods: bearing- the Spalding Trade
Mark are Guaranteed.
From all the better dealers, or
GOLF
CLUBS
Model o—Driver0 —Driver or Brassie
A. G. SPALDING & BROS, of Australasia Ltd.
228 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
NATURAL
ENOS
HEALTH-GIVING
FRUIT
REFRESHING
SALT
INVIGORATING
*
FOOD
is for Infants and Invalids
and for those whose digestive
powers have become weakened by
illness or advancing age.
, If the digestive functions, however weak, can do
any work at all they should be given work to do to the
extent of their powers. In the easy process of its prepara-
tion the digestibility of Benger’s can be regulated to give
this work with extreme nicety.
The “British Medical Journal” says—“ Benger s Food
has, by Us excellence established a reputation of its own.
BENGER S FOOD. LTD., Otter Works, Manchester, England.
Bengers Food is sold in tins by Druggists , etc., everywhere
823
The Mummer Abroad.
The story of Dr. Coward, the well-beloved founder
of the Sheffield Choir, was lately published in book
form. As an eight-year-old boy he was apprenticed
to a Sheffield cutler, and for 12 years he worked
at the trade. Whilst growing to manhood he taught
himself to read and write, getting his spelling lessons
by studying the advt. placards in the streets, on his
way to and from the factory. His parents were
crudely musical —t'.e., his father had been a “nigger”
minstrel, and his mother a cheap ballad singer at
the ’alls—so the boy was tunefully disposed. He
got tuition in fluting and fiddling from a kindly
amateur. He studied the theory of music, joined
a tonic-sol-fa class, and rose to be a teacher where
he had been a pupil. Then he retired from the
cutlery trade, and formed the Sheffield Tonic-Sol-Fa
Association, which duly developed into the Sheffield
Musical Union. Meanwhile, he had acquired the
Oxford degrees in music, being the only Doc. of the
cult who ever got there without any practical know-
ledge of pianoforte playing. A wonderfully self-
made musician is the Sheffield cutler. And ironical
fate gave him the name of Coward.
Somebody has restored to notice a popular love
ditty of the time of Henry VIII., which that famous
domestic character is said to have warbled to Jane
Seymour when he had marked her for wife No. 3: —
Ah, my little sweeting;
My little, pretty sweeting,
My sweeting will I love wherever I go;
She is so proper and pure,
Full, steadfast, stable and demure;
There is none such you may be sure,
As my sweet sweeting.
It amounts to about the same thing as “Sweet
Marie.” _ The saccharine English love-song for the
masses is not less maudlin to-day than it was 300
years before music-halls came into vogue. During
the early Queen Victorian period it was more
maudlin. It sank to its lowest depth of absurdity
when women’s crinolines were at their widest.
Now that a deplorable Englishman has patented
a device for producing harmony from old meat tins,
it only remains for a boardinghouse-keeper to invent
a system of making faint music by means of old
meat. There must be subtle differences between the
“hummings” of various kinds of old age. A loin
chop may yield a higher note than a chump chop.
A plateful of venerable rabbit probably sounds dif-
ferent from a long-neglected helping of ox tongue, and
so forth. And then there are the lullabies, dead
fish-can drone, and the various breeds of cat 1 A de-
ceased cat that hath not music in its soul is fit—
well, ’tis fit only to be pitched at a political candi-
date who has lost his deposit.
“Ajacks”: Hen. Irving said: “The drama to suc-
ceed as an art must prosper as a business.” The
millionaire theatre which set out to be to N’York
what the ComSdie Frangaise is to France, has failed,
and falls into the hands of private speculators.
Critics are now blaming this New Theatre for not
encouraging local writers. Out of 23 productions,
only four were made in America. Maeterlinck’s
fairy drama, “The Bluebird,” is named as the most
successful production, but the same author’s “Mary
Magdalene” was spoiled by Olga Nethersole’s
“atrocious acting” in the title r6le. “The Merry
Wives of Windsor” was “a failure from every point
of view, except the scenic artist’s” ; George Paston’s
(Mrs. Symonds’) “Nobody’s Daughter” was con-
sidered a hastily-chosen stop-gap. , But N’Yark’s and
Australia’s tastes may differ. They do in musical
comedy, anyhow. “Our Miss Gibbs” struck N’Yark
as insipid, and lasted just three weeks.
“J.F.H.”: London County Council has placed a
memorial tablet on 12 Seymour-street, Portman
Square, the residence of Michael William Balfe, com-
poser of “The Bohemian Girl.” Is there anybody
now alive who can authoritatively identify the Syd-
ney house inhabited by William Vincent Wallace,
composer of “Maritana”? If so, the Gaud Mayor
might do worst than brand it.
“Chasuble” : Members of the Eucharistic Congress,
just held at Madrid, visited Seville Cathedral, where
they saw the curious Dance of the Seises, performed
on Sunday before the sacrament, upon the altar.
It is.annually given on Corpus' Christi day. Ten
boys dance through a graceful minuet. They are
dressed in blue and silver cavalier suits, with,'plumed
hats. , There is nothing like this in any other church
of the world, but it has beeri in Seville for centuries.
Abdtft 50 years ago the Cardinal Archbishop of
Toledo had doubts about the affair, and sent the
boys to Rome to show the dance to Pius IX. The
Pope said: “It is innocent and beautiful. I would
not allow such an innovation anywhere else, but you
can use your own discretion.” So the church dance
goes on.
“J.F.H.”: London Opera House, with the scaffold-
ing removed, presents a magnificent white stone
fagade to Kingsway, the new highway carved through
central London by the County Council at a cost of
a couple of millions. This enterprise of Hammer-
stein, the New Yorker, looks like becoming a for-
midable rival to dingy old Covent Garden, the scene
of Melba’s triumphs. It opens in November with
“Quo Vadis.” Hammerstein says he was told by the
N’York newspapers that he was not wanted there.
“But,” he says, “I soon got there with both feet,
and I’m going to get here with both feet, too.” He
is going to present the most dramatic operas he can
find, and that is why he is starting with “Quo
Vadis.” With Israelitish ingenuity Hammerstein
had euchred the Water Board, and evaded its heavy
charges by sinking 500 ft. underneath his opera house,
and securing a water supply of his own. Israel has
been dodging the Water Board ever since Moses
struck the rock.
“Lud”: I think H. B. Irving’s performance in
Windsor Castle was the first there since the early
days of Victoria. Numerous other royal shows have
happened at Sandringham and elsewhere. The
Windsor Castle performances were stopped by the
action of Jimmy Rogers, comedian. Managers refused
to pay for the Windsor nights, but the Queen handed
out salaries on a regular scale. Performers thought
this mean. Rogers appeared in the Bow-street Police
Court one morning, and addressed the magistrate
with: “Your Worship, I have much pleasure in hand-
ing to the poor box the sum of thirteen shillings and
fourpence, the joint contribution of her Majesty
Queen Victoria, and James Rogers, comedian.”
“How’s that, Mr. Rogers?” “Well, sir, it is the
sum I received for acting at Windsor Castle last
night.”
Walter de Freece, one of the magnates of the
British music-hall world, has created a commotion
by proclaiming that a combine is in progress of
formation, which “aims at the power to say to an
artist that his maximum salary shall be so much,
and no more.” London Telegraph devotes a lengthy
article to the subject. Concludes that such a com-
bine is impracticable, for to be effective it would
have to embrace America as well as Britain. The
spirit of competition is too keen on both sides of
the Atlantic. “At the same time,” says the Tele-
graph, “it is indisputable that the salaries of star
performers have gone on increasing by leaps and
bounds. Three years ago a salary of £3OO a week
was quite exceptional; nowadays a popular comedian
would consider he was letting himself go all too
cheaply by accepting such a figure. Sarah Bern-
hardt probably touched high-water mark when she
obtained for herself £lOOO a week at the Coliseum.
What an amazing change has been affected in the
financial and social status of the variety artist!
Fortunate, indeed, the singer who, a quarter-century
ago, received as many shillings a week as his lucky
successor to-day receives pounds. Grimaldi, in his
time, earned £6O a week; Harry Lauder receives
£800.”
The latest thing in N’York entertainment enter-
prises is the Restaurant Grand Opera House For
two dollars you get a ticket that entitles you to a
first-class dinner, an operatic interlude, a vaudeville
show on a roof garden and a taxi-cab ride home.
Ruth Lincoln’s twin-looking sister Tina is now
playing the Irish girl in “The Arcadians” with one
of the English touring companies, sister Ruth being
in S’Africa the while.
The “cinephonograph,” the latest of Edison’s in-
ventions, will, it is alleged, reproduce not only the
action of a play, but also the words. Hitherto, all
attempts to do it have failed ; but if the wizard has
succeeded he has given the picture palace a hew
lease of life.


wgss*
ii
B
3
- -V :
a
J
£
Wmm
Soti)€ of tl}€ New
Encyclopaedia Britapoka
THE feature of the new Encyclopaedia Britannica which most sharply
distinguishes it from its predecessors —and, indeed, from all other
great works of reference—is its small bulk. By the use of India
(or Bible) paper, the new work, though containing two million words
more than the 10th edition, has been compressed into one-third of the
space, without any decrease in legibility. The annexed illustration,
from a photograph, explains itself —the new edition, containing over 40
million words, is no more than a good armful.
Of the features which characterise the contents of the new Encyclo-
paedia Britannica, perhaps the first to find mention should be its comprehen-
sive scope. This was by no means a quality of the Encyclopaedia
Britannica in its earliest edition, which ignored both history and biography,
and bestowed but scanty attention upon geographical headings. But
subsequent editions enlarged the scope of the work, until, with the present
issue, the Encyclopaedia Britannica may fairly be said to include every
topic as to which the reader may reasonably ask a question.
The feature of the new edition which will most impress those who are
familiar with the 9th is the well-considered distribution of more
exhaustive information under a larger number of headings. The
tendency to dismiss an important subject in one comprehensive treatise
has been superseded by the planning of a scheme according to which this
or that subject should be dealt with in a series of connected articles under
the headings most favorable to its exhaustive treatment, and most
likely to prove useful to the reaoer and the inquirer.
Finally* the full treatment of all subjects by leading experts renders the
book attractive even to the reader who turns to it merely for entertainment.
The purchaser of the new Encyclopaedia Britannica brings into his house a
resource which he knows will not fail him for reference or for study. But
in its pages he will also possess an inexhaustible store of good
reading. Ho other book can compare in interest to this one, in
which the whole world, all its great men and women, its history, its various
races, its activities in science, art and industry, its speculations and its
faiths, are described by the authorities whose word carries most weight.
CUT HERE
TO THE CAMBRIDGE UNIVERSITY PRESS,
9 Bridge Street, Sydney (P.O. Box 1612)
CUT HERE
Please send me, gratis and
post free, the prospectus and
56 specimen pages of the
new Encyclopaedia Britannica.
Name
Address
Occupation *.
Artistic and Fashionable Flexible Bangles
Here are some of the many pretty Bangles, now to be seen in our Sydney showrooms. They are made by us locally,
and favorably compare with the best English and French jewellery. We guarantee their quality, and when you
consider the lowness of the prices, you quickly see they are unusually good values.
We pay the postage, and give our best attention to orders received through post. Town or Country residents are equally
well attended to at the “ TREASURE HOUSE.”
C 6883. Fine Quality Tourmaline (Assorted Colors) Set 9ct. Gold Flexible Bangle, £5/15/-.
C 6885. Fine Quality Tourmaline (Assorted Colors) Set 9ct. Gold Flexible Bangle, £5/5/-.
a
IS m
C 6884. Fine Quality Peridots (Pale Green) Set 9ct. Gold Flexible Bangle, £5/10/-.
3
C 6886. Fine Quality Green Tourmaline Set 9ct. Gold Flexible Bangle, £4/10/-.
3
J 7104. Fine Quality Turquoise Set Oct. Gold Flexible Bangle, £5/5/-.
Any of the above Bangles can be supplied in 15ct. Gold. Prices on Application.
WE PAY
THE
POSTAGE.
sdf
(aost-raua; uoonreo.
412 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY •
Write for
Illustrated
Catalogue.


Shipping;.
P. and O. BRANCH SERVICE
For DURBAN, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
gsfd
SALOON ACCOMMODATION, AMIDSHIPS, t '
CONVERTED INTO VERY SUPERIOR
ONE CLASS.
LONDON .. .. £l6, £lB & £2O.
CAPETOWN & NATAL, £l3 135., £l5 15s. & £l7 17s.
CILCHItIST, WATT & SA 'DEItSON, LTD.. 7 Bent St.
Melbourne Agents: JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William Street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents: GEO. WILLS & CO.
ORIENT LINE
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy. New and luxur-
ous 12,000-ton Steamers. Cabines-de-luxe; State-
rooms, with bedsteads; Single Berth Rooms, Private
Bathrooms, Electric Lifts and Laundries
Sailing every fortnight from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Place, Sydney.
Banking:, Public Companies, &c.
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES.
HEAD OFFICE : MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
FARMERS AND SETTLERS’
LOANS TO £2OOO
for 31 years,. .Repayable by half-yearly instalments.
J. H. DAVIES, Secretary.
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF
NEW SOOTH WALES.
HEAD OFFICE: MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
MORTGAGE LOANS FROM 4
TO 5 PER CENT.
up to £25,000, with special repayment privileges.
J. H. DAVIES, Secretary.
gank of florth Queensland
S LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. . . .. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves . . 370,000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director:
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 4 QUEEN VICTORIA STREET, E.C.
Manager: R. R. LOVE.
Bankers: THE LONDON COUNTY & WESTMINSTER
BANK, LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Bank of |)em Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
Total Capital Paid-up .. .. £2,000,000
Uncalled Capital . : . . . . £500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits £1,034,405
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Bri-
tain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
THE
Jjustralian Bank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. ..£2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED • £1,198,344
PAID-UP (30th June, 1911) .. £1,180,812
HEAD OFFICE—George and King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE—2 King William Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS—Sir William P. Manning, Ivt., Chair-
man : Gecr:;f .7. Sly, Esq., LL.D. ; Chas. 11.
Myles, Esq. ; Mark Sheldon, Esq. ; Arthur S.
Barton, Esq ; Frank N. Esq.
Brandies throughout New South' Wales & Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonw'eaith,
New Zealand, and all the princ;pai"‘towns pf the world.
A. P. STEWART, General Manager.
The ...
Queensland National Bank,
Limited
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. 413,494 8 10
Reserve (in Gov. Stock) ~ . . 94,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
Directors: JAS. MILNE, Esq., Chairman; JAMES
MUNRO, Esq. ; Hon. A. J. CALLAN, Esq., M.L.C. ;
JOHN CAMERON, Esq.; F. LORD, Esq.
General Manager —W. V. RALSTON.
Branches—London, Sydney & throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
g
REDUCED FARES
To EUROPE
Nord D
eutscher
doyd.
PASSENGERS hooked to Egypt, Naples,
Genoa, Algiers, Marseilles, Gibraltar,
London, Antwerp, and Bremen.
sfdgsfdgfdsgsdfgfd
All steamers fitted with “Wireless” Installation.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
REGULAR FOUR-WEEKLY MAIL SERVICE
from Sydney and Brisbane, via New Guinea,
by Twin-screw Steamers.
For Passage and Full Particulars apply to —-
LOHMANN & CO., General Agents,
7 & 9 Bridge Street, Sydney ;
OSTERMEYER, VAN ROMPAEY & Co., Melbourne;
H. MUECKE & CO., Adelaide;
L. RATAZZI & CO., Perth and Fremantle;
TITOS. BROWN & SONS, Ltd., Brisbane & Townsville.
COLORED POST CARDS, by Harry J.
Weston “ WEEKLY WORRIES.”
Set of six, posted free, 6d. Bulletin
Newspaper Co. 214 George St., Sydney.
TH€ AB€RD€€N LIN€
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth and
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLINC AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
dsfgsdfg
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
fiNew Triple-screw Turbine Steamer,
f For the Melbourne Cup. * Third Class only.
FARES— Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. From £57 £l6 Os. to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban From £3l 10s. £l3 13s. to £l7 17s.
Special Return Tickets available for outward passage
by Orient Line —£112 (First-class each way);
£B5 (Second-class Orient).
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £126 10s.
SALOON CABINS on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest stan-
dard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
DALCETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN, PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
sdf
Twin-screw Steamers.
RUNIC, 12,500 tons, to sail about
November 8.
MEDIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
November 22.
AFltlO, SUEVIC and PERSIC to follow.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy and
Submarine Signalling Apparatus.
Only One Class of Accommodation-
Fares —Capetown or Durban £l5 15 oto £24 3 0
London . . .. 19 0 oto 30 0 0
Melbourne . . . . 110 0
New York, Boston, Quebec,
Montreal, etc., from 25 0 0
Pamphlets and all other information on application.
LUGGAGK Received Only on Day of Sailing,
DALGETY & COMPANY, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
POES THIS APPEAL
TO YOU?
A CRUISE through the coral isles of the Pacific,
affording tourists an opportunity, previously un-
thought of, of viewing the strange inhabitants of
the various South Sea Islands in their still semi-barbarous
state.
If so, we will be happy to forward you our pamphlet
describing our different island tours.
•59 a
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., 11 Bridge St., Sydney.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
g
£2,991,560
£1,969,435
£2,991,560
£7,952,555
DIRECTORS:
The Hon. C. K. MacKellar, M.L.C., President.
Senator The Hon. James Thomas Walker.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Normand MauEaurin, Kt., M.L.C.
Auditors: Alfred Geor<re Milson, Esq,; William Harrington Palmer, Esq.
Head Office—Georgre St., Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle St., E.C.
With 332 Branches in all the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji and Papua (New South Wales 100, Victoria 38,
Queensland 49, South Australia 5, West Australia 11, New Zealand 57, Tasmania 1, Fiji 3, Papua 2,
' London 1); and Agentsand Correspondents throughout Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India, China,
Japan, and the East, Africa, Canada, the United States, South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
Cable remittances made to, and Drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills negotiated and
collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manasrer.
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up . . £1,500,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. 1,460,000 0 0
Reserve Capital .. 1,500,000 0 0
£4,460,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
George J. Cohen, Esq .. .. Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C. . . Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C. A. J. Onslow Thompson, Esq.
Hon. James Burns, M.L.C.
Auditors: F. W. Hixson, Esq., & W. L. Docker, Esq.
General Manager: T. A. Dibbs.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
H. H. Massie.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
Manager: A. J. Soutar.
Accountant: W. R. Sayers.
Secretary: M. S. Grant.
Branch Accountant: J. Clayton.
Inspectors: W. C. B. Tiley, W. H. Piniiey.
London Office: IS Bircliin - Lane.
Directors: F. H. Dangar, Esq. ; Hon. H. S.
Littleton; N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up . . £519,237 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders' . . • 161,384 0 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) 75,500 0 0
£756,121 0 0
HEAD OFFICE : BRISBANE. r.-v
Gen. Man., Edwd: D. Day. Asst. Man.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budgre Row, Cannon Street, London,
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents add Correspondents throughout the World.
The Colonial mutual |)ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and
Annuities without Mutual Liability; also
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,219,446.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £5,300,000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales:
23 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The lion. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
THE OCEAN
Accident & Guarantee
Corporation Limited,
Ocean House, 22 Moore Street, Sydney.
T7IIRE, ACCIDENT, WORKMEN’S COM-
-E? PENSATION, PUBLIC RISK, BUR-
GLARY and PLATE GLASS INSURANCES
at Lowest Rates.
THE TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS
* AND
AG ENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE I UND (Invested in Deben-
tures, Stock, & First Mortgages • • £41,000 0 0
Directors: R. Murray Smith," Esq., C.M.G., Chairman ;
John Grice, Esq., Vice-Chairman; lion. J. M. Pratt;
J. H. MacFarland, Esq., M.A., LL.D. ; Alexander
M'Cracken. JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
THE PERMANENT TRUSTEE COMPANY
OF NEW SOUTH WALES LIMITED.
Incorporated by Act of Parliament. #
The TWENTY-FOURTH ORDINARY GENERAL
MEETING of Members will be held in the ROYAL
EXCHANGE, on MONDAY, OCTOBER 23, 1911, at
Noon.
BUSINESS.
To receive Reports and Balance-sheet to September
30, 1911.
To Elect One Director in place of Lesley Herring,
■Esq., who retires (under Clauses, 77 and '7B of the
Articles of Association), and who offers himself for
re-election.
To Elect Two Auditors in place of Messrs. W.
Clarke and F. Phillips.
To consider any other business, of which due notice
shall have been given in accordance with the Articles
of Association.
A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager.
17 O’Connell Street, Sydney, October 4, 1911.
dsfg
vv Points
j£r /ni/entors
Can I Obtain a Patent ?
The quickest, wav to ascertain this,
WITHOUT EXPENSE, is to write
to me describing 1 your invention, enclosing a small sketch
where necessary. Nicety of drawing is not essential ;
all that is necessary ai first is to give me YOUR IDEA.
I will at once inform you whether the idea is patent-
able, and, if so, give the neces-ary instructions for
further procedure.
Persons desirous of obtaining really reliable advicfe or
information regarding Patent matters are cordially in-
vited to consult me personally or by letter. In all cases
a careful consideration of their plans, an honest opinion,
and a prom >t r<-plv may be expected.
A. J. CALLINAN, Patent Attorney,
Citizens’ Buildings, Collins Street, Melbourne.
Shipping;.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
GERALDTON (W.A.)
S.S. Kyarra (7000), Satur-
day, Oct. 28, and Nov.
25. Transhipping at Fre-
mantle to all N.-VVest
Ports.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
towns vi ble
And Pores North to Oairns.
S.S. Marloo, Oct. 14.
S.S. Gran tala, Oct. 21.
S.S. Woilowra, Oct. 28.
Best and Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can lit
ascertained on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL. MAIL LINE.
THE “ ALL-RED ” ROUTE.
To VANCOUVER, via AUCKLAND
(N.Z.), FIJI, and HONOLULU,
thence by Rail to any part oi:
CANADA or UNITED STATES.
The Best Route to Europe.
feA I Ijlln (J;
sdf
And every 28 days thereafter.
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Illustrated Pamphlets Free oi\ Application.
Agents throughout Canada, United States
and Europe—Canadian Pacific ltaihvay Co.
For full particulars apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George Street, Svdney.
F. — H. S.
Federal-Houlder-Shire Lines,
ST£AM TO LONDON
Via SUEZ CANAL.
Twin-screw Steamer
“ARGYLLSHIRE.”
12,300 Tons. Captain Chicken.
Will be despatched from: —
BRISBANE, Oct. 10. MELBOURNE, Oct. 24.
SYDNEY, Oct. 17. ADELAIDE, Oct. 31.
Carries Saloon Passengers only.
The STATE ROOMS are situated on DECK amid-
ships ; DINING SALOON, SMOKE-ROOM and
LOUNGE situated on UPPER DECK. Doctor and
Stewardesses carried. Wireless Telegraphy fitted.
Return and Round Trip Tickets issued via Cape
and (or) Suez Canal Routes. Prepaid' passages
arranged.
FARES —Single, £4O to £45.
Return, £6B to £76 10s.
From Brisbane £2 extra.
To be followed at regular four-weekly intervals by
fast twin-screw passenger steamers. lor further in-
formation, illustrated books, pamphlets, etc., apply
to—•
BIRT & CO., Ltd., Svdnev and Brisbane;
McILWRAITH, McEACRARN & CO., Prop., Ltd..
Melbourne.
ELDER, SMITH & CO., Ltd., Adelaide.
IT. .TONES & CO., Ltd., Hobart;
The METROPOLITAN
ACCIDENT, FIRE
and GENERAL
INSURANCE COMPANY, LIMITED.
THE CO-OPERATIVE FIRE OFFICE.
Shares Issued to Contributors of Business.
When your Premium is Due Get Full Particulars.
HEAD OFFICE: 30 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
BRANCHES: Victoria, S. Aus., Queensland.
Hotels, &c.
m
non
George hotel,
St. Hilda., Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
Superior Inducements to Colonial Visitors at the
Westminster Palace Hotel.
VICTORIA STREET,
LONDON j England.' of Parliament.
Opposite Westminster
Abbey and the Houses
A thoroughly comfortable Ilome-like Hotel,
located in one of the, best districts in London.
Most convenient situation for business or pleasure.
Single bedrooms from 3/C, and Double Bedrooms
from 5/6 per dav, and NO ATTENDANCE
CHARGES.
Illustrated Tariff Booklet S> nt on Request.
GEO. J. BRINK WORTH, Manager.
gs
K6eHOTEL VICTORIA,
Victoria Place, Brisbane, is MOST CENTRAL,
LARGE NEW BEDROOMS, with all latest Modern
Conveniences. Tariff from 6/- a Dajr.
JOHN BROSNAN, Proprietor.


mm
wmm
. ■ .
" Iff !■ *
V
; "i
wags? ,
»' -
s
SS
am
*** fll
$
„ ~~2 Z* r ? ■
m
: .
5- v ’ ;
tr"
m
mM
warn
m
"■ I
~
i
ggfP*
*B^
•t; • •
11
gjggP
•■; .. K
•1
n
:«c®s "jvj.
iH
Si
mMM
■PH
H
1
PH
■h
■
. «
I
i*
■ ■
m
m
1
%
■
. l
I HI
M
m
:
Hh
■
B
;
M,:
mm
m
Wm
11 k
V'.-!
m
11
►Jjf
% la
' 4 V
WmM.
■i
Mf
■ fist
■ II
: JS^
ijr
■
. ;■••';'■
wmm
m
i
m
Cl
A m§.
*o*
■H
*■'<>-iSIsIIISI
REGULAR &
FREQUENT SAILINGS BETWEEN
TAU
VICTORIA. NEW SOUTH WALES. QUEENSLAND
and a!! ports in each
AUSTRALIAN STATE
HR
ADELAIDE S. C° L TD
/ARD SMITH C9LTP
M9ILWRAITH,
A.U.S.N.C? LIMITED
TD
*4 % *i '4 ..
OFFICES & AGE NTS AT All P° R T


m
* ,
IS
SA
t:
itsy
BASE, STYLE and
SHAPELINESS.
This is an actual Photograph of the
QUALITY SHOE
Stocked in
Black Qlace Kid, Patent CaTf Skin and
Tan Willow Calf,
retailing at
21 1-
Post free if cash
accompanies order.
It is a serviceable shoe a perfect fitter. In medium, pointed and natural footshape lasts.
PIKE BROTHERS „ Ltd., Brisbane.
Legal Notice.
Estate of VALENTINE EGBERT ARMFIELD,
Late of Hospital lor Consumptives,
Waterfall, Deceased.
~VT OTICE is hereby given to JAMES
JLi ARMFIELD, the father of the aboye-
named deceased, that he must prove his claim
to the Estate of the said deceased on or be-
fore the Ist FEBRUARY, 1912. The said
JAMES ARMFIELD was a coach-driver,
and was last heard of at Adelong about 21
years ago. Any persons acquainted with
JAMES ARMFIELD are respectfully re-
quested to communicate with the undersigned.
T. W. GARRETT,
Curator of Intestate Estates,
Sydney.
Missing Friends.
Roland ell wood terry shutt
—or TERRY. Anyone knowing the
whereabouts of above person, who left
Loughbro’, England, November, 1908, for
Otorohanga, W. T. W., New Zealand, thence
for Sydney, August, 1909, please communi-
cate with
W. A.,
Bulletin, Sydney.
AY TANSEY is requested to communi-
cate with
BROTHER L.,
Cromwell, N.Z.
K
FRY, GEORGE, ELIZA and ELIZA-
BETH, children of Louisa Jane Iry.
late of Cascade-road, near Hobart, or their
children, or any person who can give infor-
mation concerning them, are requested to
communicate at once with the Curator of
Intestate Estates, Hobart, who is now dis-
tributing the Estate of the said Louisa Jane
Fry, deceased.
dfg
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BY
APPOINTMENT
sdfg
TO
H.M. THE KIN&
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaiuable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRURB & CO., LTD./LONDON, ENGLAND.
None Genuine without tlie Signature of Scrubb Sc Co. on each Bottle
dsf
IN
BANANA LAND
The late John Forrest was one of Banana-
land’s biggest commercial men. He arrived
in Queensland in 1868, and went squatting
on the Dawson River. Then he managed
Gin Gin for Thomas Mcllwraith, and, at
various times afterwards, was sugar-growing
in Bundaberg, pastoral inspector for
the Q. N. Bank, and managing director
of Moreheads Limited. And he might have
been Bananaland’s Agent-General when
Horace Tozer gave up the billet had he been
willing to quit Brisbane.
One Northern paper sees, in the arrival of
a further 50 Russian immigrants, a deep-
laid Labor plot to blow up the C.S.R. refin-
eries, and establish a Republic on the ashes.
It therefore seriously proposes approaching
Digby Denham to prevent further Slav
arrivals, though what the unctuous butter
merchant has to do with immigration restric-
tion it doesn’t explain.
At last, the Auditor-General has dropped
on to the juggling by which Queensland
Treasurers for the last two years have
dodged the Audit Act and got rid of their
surpluses, instead of using them, as the law
directs, for the reduction of the public debt.
According to the Auditor: “£140,000 in 1910
and £200,000 in 1913 ” were charged to June
expenditure, which really belonged to July
and August. He says further: “I have sug-
gested to the Government an amendment of
the Audit Act, so as to require the Trea-
sury books to be finally closed on June 30, of
each year... but, so far, I have not feden
any sign of the suggestion being adopted.”
Under the present disgraceful manipulation,
a Queensland budget gives no idea whatever
of the financial position.
When the Old Month’s Gone!
[FOR THE BULLEITN.]
Now the old month’s gone,
And the new month’s here,
I’d like to go and daily shout myself another beer :
But Snip and Snob are waiting at the corner of the
street,
And what they say 1 wouldn’t like to carelessly
repeat.
For the way they scatter scandal
On a man’s good name,
If they get the slightest handle,
Is a burning shame.
O Snob and little Snip,
They have got a lot of “lip.”
And I cannot turn the corner but 1 catch them on
the jeer,
When the old month’s gone and the new month's
here.
When the old month’s gone,
And the new month’s here,
1 gaze upon my dollars with a melancholy tear ;
For half of them are owing unto Washerwoman
Brown,
And the hash-house lady tells me she would like
Cash Down.
And although I stand her mutton
With a patient grin,
She doesn’t care a button
For a thing but tin.
If I’d pay her little lot,
She would hunt me on the spot—-
But I keep her on the see-saw of alternate hope and
fear,
When the old month’s gone and the new month's
here.
When the old month’s gone,
And the new month’s here,
I’ve got a job to put myself in presentable gear;
I’ve got a woeful collar and a lamentable hat,
A vest that is too narrow for a waist too fat;
In a pitiable manner
I must keep off brew,
And I catmo’t bet a tanner
But my luck goes blue ;
And my only sort o’ fun
Is the dodging of a dun,
Or inventing novel legends if he chance to hover
near,
When the old month’s gone and the new month's
here.
When the old month’s gone,
And the new month’s here,
If Luck would only whisper in my soft pink ear,
I’d got myself up gaily in a fresh new rig,
And pay off Snip, and brand him as a mercenary
prig;
My hat should sit undinted
On a well-groomed head,
And the town should all be tinted
With a sweet, bright red ;
And the debts of other days
They should scatter in amaze;—
But—alas! —l’m only dreaming. It’s a visionary
beer
That a Stonybroke is quaffing—and the New Month’s
Here!
QUEENSLAND.
F. BORN.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, October 7, 1913.
My Thabgomindah,—
Our Vision has departed. On Wednesday,
guarded by Lady Mac, she set sail in the
mail train for your city, where she expected
to find steam up on the French liner Nera to
carry her to the land where Britannia sits
proudly on the back part of her own penny
piece. Later, Miss Mac will split a Switzer-
land winter with sister Lady Paget. She
said “so-long” to her Queensland girl friends
over a pint of tea with a dash of sugar on
Monday morning, and, since then, local girl-
dom has had the regretful tear balancing on
the eyelid. Good-byes were also quavered at
a tea-junket, given by Miss Florence Bren-
nan, who departs for Sydney to-day after a
visit to Mrs. Ned Tully and the Justice
Real household.
The J. A. Robertsons have returned, after
holidaying in various civilised and uncivil-
ised parts of the globe. Mrs. “Jim,” a niece
of the Toorakian Knox clan, is one of our
THE MOTOR FIEND AGAIN.
HOISTED ONE: "Why th' ’ell didn't you blow your ’ orn ?”
Very Smartest —a regal-looking woman with
exquisite dress taste. She left daughter Mar-
jorie, whose skirts have recently lengthened,
in the chaperonage of an English aunt.
Cupid is causing more trouble locally. This
time he will have to answer for the engage-
ments of two of our popular Sassiety misses
to foreigners. First, there is Miss Constance
Parry-Okeden, the only unmarried daughter
of W.E., one-time Police Commissioner, who
will hie her to Fogland to preside over the
destinies of another Parry-Okeden, a cousin,
who recently visited us. The second is Miss
Isabel Forrest (Bebe), the youngest daugh-
ter of “Pom Pom” Forrest, who is booked to
say “Certainly” to Mr. Southwell Lord, of
Fiji (mind that comma). The bride-elect is
at present visiting a brother in Fiji, but will
come back to secure her “dozen of each” at
the end of the year.
The departure of the George Eddingtons
to Melbourne will rob us of a hostess whose
parties have become a frequent and pleasant
habit. Jerdenfield alternated between open-
ing its hospitable doors to the willing and
eager Elect, and unfolding its wide veran-
dahs to the school friends of daughter
Leonore. The gardens were among the
show places of the city.
The Harold Parkers have fled by the Ar-
gyllshire, and will be able to wave an affec-
tionate handkerchief at Pa and Ma Robin-
son somewhere off the South Coast. On
Wednesday they received several scores of
people on our one roof garden (Finney’s),
amidst swarms of palms and other vegetables.
In the party were several returned Queens-
landers, whose stay in London had been
brightened by the Agent-General Robinsons
—notably Mrs. and Miss Milne and the
Misses Dickson.
Ascot sported little or naught in the way
of new frocks to-day; also, the vice-regal
box was occupied only by the four winds
and a vagrant spider. Amongst the best-
SSfi™ fe/iXSd Va h i ftS
SWlftf fc WMif' McWb,t *“
1 T fc MS ‘ 77 l * ett W hite.
Just because the Argyllshire is the largest
vessel which has successfully rounded the
curves of our river, the manager of the com-
pany, backed up by Mrs. Manager, yarded on
the quarter-deck most of those who could,
an they would afford to pay the passage
Home and filled them with the glad wel-
come and strawberries Looking round the
ship I was particularly attracted to a sta-
bility chart, which shows how much of a
Mad it can carry without turning turtle.
This so appealed to a male pal of mine, who
is somewhat given to night-owling, that he
inquired earnestly if a pocket edition sta-
bility chart could be obtained to warn a man
whether it was safe to leave the club and
make heavy weather home, or whether he
should remain where he was. The skipper
has promised to ask the company’s Head
Rechabite in London.
At His Majesty’s. “The Balkan Princess”
is still contemptuously refusing five ardent
suitors per night, to the amazement of every
spinster in the audience. More thrill is pro-
mised the unmarried at the end of the week,
when “The Merry Widow” will waltz to the
front, or the Devil, or somewhere.
Included in the comic opera co., at pre-
sent in Brisbane, are several girls from the
Marshall-Hall conservatorium in Melbourne.
Miss Gladys Frost, who was also a pupil
there for a considerable time, intends hold-
ing a sort of joyful reunion while her erst-
while fellow students are in Brisbane, and
on the 15th will feed them on her pretty
lawn which overlooks the Milton reach of
the Brisbane River. There will be corned
beef for those who don’t care for lawn.
Elsie Wareham, daughter of popular E. B.
and Mrs. Wareham, who has been an in-
mate of the Alexandra Hospital for a week
or two, is rapidly progressing towards
health, and will soon be able to return to
the paternal roof. Elsie has leanings to-
wards theatricals, and elocutes in a finished
manner.
Denizens of Southport and Brisbane, who
remember Mr. de la Poer Trench, will be
right glad to hear that he is well on the road
to recovery, after his painful accident at
Fanning Island at the beginning of the
year. Mr. Trench is now in Port Ade-
laide, where Trench pere manages the
Union Bank.
Mrs. F. J. Skipper gathered in about 50
of the young of two of the sexes at her
home, Mossleigh, on Thursday evening, in
honor of Miss Frances Davy, of Melbourne,
who is on a visit to the North. None of
them blamed her.
Last evening, the popular headmistress of
the Girls’ Grammar School said, “Now I
hope you will enjoy yourselves” to about 200
school girls and their adopted brothers and
favorite cousins. The halls of yearning were
decorated with frivolous fiowers and bunt-
ing, and the Wilkinson lady, who believes
in the influence of dress on the growing
girl, wore lovely rose point lace over white
satin. Likewise, the music was good, and
the supper more so.
Frank Ivnyvett, who left these parts, after
the Boer war, for Maoriland, where he mar-
ried and settled down until the compara-
tively recent dust-up concerning his alleged
breach of discipline as a volunteer captain,
has returned to Brisbane.
Scores of enthusiastic' motorists dashed
to Redcliffe this afternoon, snatched the
waiting bun and sandwich, and joyously
raced each other back, with a simple and
unfailing faith in the absence of police
traps. Dr. Herbert Stewart was respon-
sible for the afternoon tea. and Mrs. Stew-
art who, until recently, was a Miss Rubv
Taylor, hostessed prettily and well.
A Brisbane business man is not likely to
give any more of his friends a playful’ dig
in the ribs. One of them who was treated
in that way last February, brought an
action for assault, and was awarded £46 13s.
damages. It was stated that, as a result
of the dig, two ribs were broken, and the
fractured end of one penetrated the lung.
Yours affectionately.
AUSTRALIA JANE.
Queensland’s Premier told a rustic audi-
ence recently that; what Bananaland wanted
was ‘‘the three IPs —Rain, Railways and
Resoluteness.” Judging by Denham's recent
record, one would say that in his opinion
the "four B’s, Borrow, Boom, Blither and
Burst,” better filled the bill of Queensland’s
requirements.
According to the Courier, Digbv Den-
ham. “in shirt sleeves and bowyangs
turned the first sod of the Allora-Goomburra
railway. The eminent politician was also
equipped with a silver-gilt pick and shovel,
and filled and emptied a painted and var-
nished barrow. But "bowyangs” ! Ye gods!
Who shall dare to say that the butterm'an
doesn't represent the real toiler, after this!
The policy of dragging everything to Syd-
nev reached the pinnacle a few days ago,
when the s.s. Eastern and 251 people, many
of them niggers and darkly suspicioned of
smallpox, were brought all the way down
the Queensland coast to be quarantined at
tne Ma capital. The Malays on board were
bound for the North Queensland pearl fish-
eries, so they were carried 1700 miles beyond
their destination, and will have to be carried
1700 miles back. This is the triumph of the
doctrine of Superfluous Haulage.
E. L. Batchelor, the Commonwealth Min-
ister, who died very suddenly last week, had
a longer Cabinet experience than any other
Laborite in Australia. When the late Fred
Holder formed his second S. Aus. Govern-
ment, he offered the friendly Labor party a
portfolio. The party had just witnessed
Andy Dawson’s futile attempt to carry on a
straight-out Labor Government in Queens-
land ; and it trusted Batchelor so completely
that it decided to try the experiment of a
Labor infusion. Results were so satisfac-
tory that the arrangement wasn’t disturbed
until the Commonwealth arrived, and Holder
and Batchelor went to the Reps. When J.
C. Watson formed his first Federal Ministry
it contained three men with previous Cabinet
experience—Batchelor, Fisher and Dawson:
and, curiously, the eight days’ experience of
Fisher and Dawson, in Queensland, ended
the very day Batchelor’s 18 months’ experi-
ence began.


Kia-Ora Lemon
Squash.
MANUFACTURED BY O.T. LIMITED.
H thirst Quencher & Blood Purifier
Kia-Ora forms a delicious blend with Plain Water,
Lemonade* Soda Water* O.T** Whisky or Gin.
Made by our own Special Process
From the Finest Selected Lemons
And the Best Refined Cane Sugar.
A cooling and wholesome
draught with most valuable
powers for improving health,
for refreshing the body, and
for dispelling tired feeling
and summer languor.
Kia-Ora is exceedingly re-
freshing, and is a much
superior beverage to the over-
sweet, thick-syrup Lemon
Squashes on the Market.
It is purer and has more
virtue than the usual home-
made Lemon Squash.
A Glass of Kia-Ora and Soda
Water Half an Hour before
meals is an excellent system
purifier tHat clears out the
irritating acids of unclean
fermentation.
20 DRINKS IN EVERY BOTTLE.
Take home a bottle and try it—TO-DAY.
::V.
O.T.
LTD
Si
O.T
LTD
Cf)
XON
CIHTRAI
r®
:
s
Kia-Ora is specially concen-
trated by a method which
conserves all the goodness of
the fruit. It is not too sweet,
nor too dry, and is free from
any admixture of deleterious
substances. It is not only
most delicious to the taste
and most powerful in allay-
ing thirst, but it is a most
valuable drink for torpid liver,l
catarrhal jaundice, rheuma-i
tism and gout, and is a;
powerful agent for
and removing scurvy.
AsK distinctly at the Bar for
Kia-Ora Squash-don’t taKe
ahother brand and imagine j
that it is “just the same.**
Kia-Ora is obtainable at first-class Hotels, Soft
Drink Shops and Restaurants by the -GLASS, and
at Stores by the BOTTLE.
Kia-Ora is richer in Lemon
Fruit Juice than any other
brand of Lemon Sqirasht
Some so-celled Lemon Squashes
have little if any Lemon Fruit
Juice in their Composition!
Sole Makers: O.T. LIMITED, Sydney, Melbourne, London


i-''
if|V HSfSfe?
11
' > i
-
■
BW
gfcl
m • usssj $ -j
1 W*M *
•’fig' mffleßSfljp ■<,■,
Sf
m
m
(■ r S v J:
IM
ImSsU
MPIB
I (Uplebnateb
pu«r
MALT .
VIRES®!
I ’. ‘rfd I
Bi
•. ■ , t '
.: . :
brewed from
malted- barley
TO>Vfr<BRIDCtW
> Vy'
V.t-& h
iiniMK
gsdf
CARBIDE.
For First-Class
Results use
Best
W“‘PERNIX” CARBIDE.
Addresses of Merchants distributing it can be obtained
from AUGUST BLUMENTHAL, LIMITED, 62
Pitt Street, Sydney, Sole Ag nts for Australia.
jsaWellof course
Anything worth doing is
worth do : ng well —so fcr
the antiseptic cleansing your
teeth need every day, use
CALVERT’S
Carbolic Tooth Powder
Lo:aI Chemists and Stores sell it.
F. C. Calvert & Co.. Manchester. Fnpt
B
BEAT
RIAR
PIPES
ALL SHAPES
I/-EACH POST FREE 1/2
Quality Not Better
in a
Guinea Pipe
r MICK SIMMONS
SYDNEY.
STOREKEEPERS 4, TOBACCONISTS
SHOULD SEND FOR OUR TRADE UST
nwr™
1
JJ
7/ DIURETIC \\
fwmkwsssm
I REMEDY 1
A CORRECTIVE
of the:
ORINARY
ORGANS
M
IT IS
ALSO A
SPLENDID
TONIC
Opr&inab/e «?// Chpm/sts
I CLARTON,HODGSON & C? L?? *
So/e Aus/ra/asiao Agents. 73 YORKST.SYDNEY
The Standard Kemedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
in w sine. 1506.
CURES
Anstralian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history - —the book is free—or write
S' GRKEN ?10. T.amhoth boar!. T.onrinn. Vn
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES i
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Coughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GRIMAULT & Co’s INDIAN CIGAR-
ETTES. Bold by all Chemists.
rri
m
t
s<
T?
R
&
22
a
ALCOCK’S
Billiard Tables
THE business man finds recreation and respite
from the worries of the day in billiards. There
friends meet and together enjoy the game that
calls forth concentration, skill and judgment.
On an ALCOCK table the balls run perfectly,
the angles are accurate and the cushions play beauti-
fully, adding materially to the enjoyment of the game.
In the hotel; in the club; in the home —
wherever men largely congregate, there an Alcock
Billiard Table is usually found.
These are the same tables on which George
Gray and Fred Lindrum, jun., have become famous
for their record breaks.
The “ Bijou ” is a favorite home billiard table,
fitted with fast running cushions, superfine billiard
cloth, and faultlessly finished.
Write for Illustrated Billiard Catalogue.
ALCOCK & CO. PTY. LTD.,
BILLIARD TABLE MANUFACTURERS,
397 George St., Sydney. 114 Edward St., Brisbane. Baker
Buildings, Featherstone St., Wellington. 155 Elizabeth St.,
Melbourne. 7 King William St., Adelaide. Murray St., Perth.
Conjuring Tricks, Puzzles, Surprise 8 Joke Novelties
LOOK AND LAUGH GLASS.
gfds
See the Passing: Show.
Your friends gro-
tesquely photo-
graphed— stout people
look thin —thin people
look stout. The
Laughing Camera
f urnishes all this and
more. By getting a
focus on passingpedes-
trians, horses, wag-
gons, trains, trams,
etc., tlie most gro-
tesque and ludicrous
pictures are wit-
nessed. All grow fat from laughter. It is well andj
strongly made, and cannot get out of order. Price 1 /-,!
post free anywhere.
THE U.S.A. LIQUID PISTOL.
Will
atop the
111 o 8 t
vicious
dog or man without
permanent injury.
Invaluable for cy-
clists, unescorted
ladies, cashiers,
night -watchmen,
homes, etc. Has more
effect on beggars and
tramps than a watch-
IV\
B
dog. Fires and recharges by pulling trigger. Over
20 shots in one loading. Reloading unlimited. It
creates great amusement for young and old, it is
strongly made of polished nickel, and is one of the
most useful, durable, reliable and economical novel-
ties ever produced. Used with water or ammonia.
Price, post free anywhere, 3/-
H. L. Hutchinson L-
New York Novelty Company.
710 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
eSs,
BN
' ..
urn 1 H
m
• '
m
o ®
'iioy,
PUZZLE PURSE.
The Latest and Best Puzzle Purse on the market.
Even our most industrious puzzle enthusiasts baffled.
Three entirely different moves before purse can be
opened. It is made of superior leather, with inside
pocket, and strong polished nickel frame. Illustrated
directions enclosed. Price, post free anywhere, 2/-.
Do not miss this chance of obtaining one of the best
and most useful puzzles ever produced.
PUZZLE POCKET KNIVES.
g
A Puzzle Pocket
Knife is one of
the most useful
novelties obtain-
able. Best qual-
ity steel blade,
buff horn hand-
les, spring back.
Puzzle to stmt as well as to open. Makes a splendid
knife for general use, also asuperior rabbiter's knife.
Price, with full directions, 2/-; post free any-
where, or same quality in larger size, 3/2 post free.
Postal Addras3—3oX 3, HAYMARXET POST OFFIOE, SV'DNEY. Write for Price Lists, free upon application.
Branches—lll KING STREET; 25 and 27 STREET, SYDNEY.
I ADIES desirous of having their hair dressed in the latest styles should
call on the .. .
VICE-REGAL,
sfdg
HAIRDRESSERS,
The Misses Isaacs,
161 King Street,
SYDNEY.
Tails, Fringes, Transformations, Puffs, ancf all Acoi ssories for the prevailing
Phone 2138 Central. Fashions always In 8t >ok. Write for Catalogue.
sfd
ARE YOU
DEAF?
If you are deaf, or going deaf, you will
be glad to hear of a simple and scientific de-
vice which will restore your hearing, no mat-
ter how old you are. There is no mystery
or secrecy about it; we describe it fully and
explain just how it acts.
You use spectacles as sight magnifiers, and
in the same way you may use this sound
magnifier as an aid to weak hearing. But,
unlike spectacles, the Wilson Common-sense
Ear-Drums are invisible and comfortable.
You can’t tell you are wearing them. No
one else can, either, because they are not
seen.
They rest the ear nerves by taking the
strain off them —the strain of trying to hear
dim sounds. What a blessed relief to have
done with that tiring strain!
Being made of the purest and softest Para
rubber, they cannot be felt, even when the
head rests on a pillow. For the same reason,
a blow on the side of the head will not hurt
the car. In fact, they protect the ear, the
tender inner parts that are so sensitive, from
cold winds, dust, sudden and piercing sounds.
So that you may clearly understand why
these facts are true, and why the Sound Mag-
nifier restores the hearing, we give an illus-
tration of one as it lies in the ear. You will
notice that the Soiltid Magnifier is shaped
like a trumpet, and so conveys even the
faintest sounds right to the natural ear-
drum. Being of the softest rubber, it cannot
hurt the ear. It fits the orifice of the ear
with precision and comfort. The division
that runs across the mouth is to allow the re-
moval and insertion of the Ear-Drum, and to
brace it.
The shape of the Wilson Ear-Drum has
been chosen after years of experience as the
best adapted to carry the faintest sound right
down to the natural ear-drum.
To persons who are nearly deaf, it is not
only trying to have people shout at them,
but it hurts the ear-drum. When age comes
the ear-drum sometimes gets thickened, or
loses its tightness, and shouting does not act
properly on it. It only makes a confused
and tiring noise. But the Sound Magnifiers
concentrate the sound in the best spot- for
perfect hearing.
Of course, if you have lost the hearing-
nerve completely,- or were born deaf, we can-
not pretend to cure you. Only a miracle
could do that, in spite of some of the absurd
claims made to-day. But if you can hear the
faintest sound, do not despair. You will
never regret trying the Wilson Ear-Drums.
We have letters to show you from deaf people
in Australia and New Zealand who have been
cured, and you can be cured, too. You may
wear the Ear-Drums day and night, and take
them out whenever you wish. Children can
wear them (we have special sizes for children
from six to twelve). Even a child can insert
and remove them without the least danger.
The price is £1 (the fee for a doctor’s
single visit). This includes a pair of Drums
(they are only sold in pairs), a fine nickel
remover and also an inserter. After the first
pair is bought you may purchase a single
drum at any time for Bs., but the pair you
get at first will last o,uite two years. Do not
ask for a trial pair. We do not send them
out on trial, and so they are never second-
hand. Use the Order Form below, and the
Outfit will be sent to you at once, wdth the
fullest instructions. Don’t delay, but have
the comfort of good hearing as soon ‘as you
can.
ORDER FORM.
STAR NOVELTY CO.,
103 Premier Buildings,
229 Collins Street, Melbourne (Vic.).
Please send me an Outfit containing a pair
of Wilson Common-sense Ear-Drums, an In-
serter and a Remover, for which I enclose
One Pound.
Name
Address
NOTE.—Send by Money Order or Postal
Note. If a Bank Note or Sovereign is sent,
you mutl register it.
fßinging for More!'
-.yljtiki,. |y
l«=^*
"W
Bird’s
Custard
stands alone in its absolute
purity, delicious flavor and
rich, egg like creaminess*
Has stood the test of time
Over 70 years ’ success.


NEW
Queensland Railways.
Thousands of men will he working on
these shortly, and the wise ones will
wear our
Signal Brand
Boots
especially made for this work.
EACH PAIR GUARANTEED.
Take no other brand if you wish for
satisfactory wear.
Demand them from vour storekeeper.
MADE WITH UNION LABOR.
Have
Green
Soles.
Dm
DH.C?L*
TEfltD)
THE
- (RECISU -u^,
S/ mm
Have
Green
Soles.
The Davey Halliday
c°-
BRISBANE, Q.,
SOLE MANUFACTURERS.
The Elite
Eau de Cologne
tAUDEfCoLoS
Uliuiumn D 3
rIDELITASSIIi:
r.WOLFF&SOHN
, -Karlsruhe
Baden
Triumph of
Modem Science
Untamable from all ieauing establishments
gsd
fg
sdf
Look manly and
smart by growing an attrac-
tive Moustache. ‘ MOUSTA,’
: IsWl*rite Moustache Grower,
Speedily : one at any
age like vhcgic. Quite harmless to use.
Boys become men. - * Mousta ’ is used
all'over the world and is strongly
recommended by the Medical Pro-
fession. Entire, suc-ess‘ or money willingly
returned. ‘Mousta’ produces astonishingly
quick results ar.d is. the talk of London .
Full Treatment, sufficient to promote Good
Growth, 5/ m (postage 6d. extra), sent a.t once
in plain wrapper on receipt of International
Money Order, 5/6. Seifd now to—
F. DIXON'& CO„ 42, Junction Road,
London, N., England.
4 MONTHLY (jUI DE for everything Aus-
ix tralian. That’s Thk Lone Hand. “A
marvellous sixpenn’orth ! ”
CHALMERS CARS
ACKNOWLEDGE NO COMPETITOR.
1912 MODELS and PRICES—
30-36 H.P. New Model, 4-speed gear —self starter (air
pressure)—36-inch wheels—long stroke motor. Fully equipped
with hood, screen, five lamps, generator, horn, tools, jack, etc.,
20=30 H.P. Touring Car or Torpedo, unaltered for 1912.
This is the car of which we have sold 60 odd since Christmas.
Fully equipped as above.
20-30 H.P. Torpedo, 2=seater same construction as touring
car, except II inches shorter in the wheelbase.
Fully equipped as above.
SEND FOR CATALOG. ~mS
£6OO
FULLY EQUIPPED.
£4 7 5
FULLY EQUIPPED.
£445
FULLY EQUIPPED.
gsdf
ROY W. SANDFORD,
(WE GUARANTEE SERVICE).
CHALMERS THOMAS EMPIRE,
105 EXHIBITION ST., MELBOURNE; 181 ELIZABETH ST„ SYDNEY.
COUGHS
Colds, Asthma, Bronchitis and
Lung troubles quickly cured by
POWELtS
BALSAM
OF
ANISEED
gfd
Of All Stores
BMSAMOrjfr
%
*<"Rade maß**
mnd Chemists.
sg
Wholesale Agents for Victorias DUERDEN & SAINSBURY, Melbourne •
sfd
The World’s Standard
Valveless Engine.
gsfd
Careful consideration of the prices of the FERRO
Engine will readily convince intending purchasers
that this outfit brings within their reach a plant
that has hitherto been beyond the “pocket” of many
would-be buyers. At the same time, we would like
to impress upon all that, although the Plant is low
in price, it is .NOT LOW IN QUALITY. We assert,
without hesitation, that there is NOT A BETTER
ENGINE MADE than the FERRO. The low price
is accounted for by the enormous output and the per-
fect organisation of the Ferro Co., combined with
the fact that the design of FERRO Engine omits a
number of parts necessary in ordinary Oil Engines.
In all fifteen parts per Cylinder are eliminated,
and all of them parts which call for greatest ac-
curacy in design and workmanship. It is evident,
therefore, that a FERRO Engine cambq made of
highest class materials at a LuWER PRICE than a
Valve Operated Engine using the same. grade iof
material —which few manufacturers attempt.
It must also be borne in mind that the failure of
aby one of the fifteen parts mentioned will throw
the Engine’ out of business until it is‘replaced, and
the FERRO has fifteen less chances of stopping when
there is work to be done.
Don’t'forget this: TIME IS MONEY.
Made in the following sizes suitable for
Stationary, Portable or Marine use:
3,4, SJ, 7£, 8, 11, 12, 15, 17, 25 H.P.
FERRO AGENTS:
Hall Bros., Qruitt St., SYDNEY.
Acme Motor & Eng. Co., 355 Lonsdale St., MELBOURNE.
Howard Motor & Cycle Co., Queen St., BRISBANE.
F. J. Langley, Torrens St. E., ADELAIDE.
Perth Motor House, Hay St, PERTH.
Wearne & Ceard, LAUNCESTON.
Hayward & Garratt, Stuart St., DUNEDIN.
H. T. Whitson & Co., Customs St W., AUCKLAND
H. T. Moore, APIA, SAMOA.
m
c?
Prizes Value
IN THE
8-HOUR
£,3000
ART UNION
and SPORTS
(Under sanction of the Attorney'-General). Drawn October 28; 1911.
Ist Prize, value £650.
3rd Prize,, value £2OO.
2nd Prize, value £350.
And 347 other Valuable Prizes.
The First Brize last year was won*-by Mrs. D. Owen, Bulli, N.S.W.,
for the modest outlay of ONE SHILLING.
GET A TICKET AND HAVE A CHANCE FOR 1911.
Results of Drawing will be advertised in this paper on November 2.
To any person forwarding stamped addressed envelope, a list of
the results will be posted. Tickets may be had from Agents in all
towns, or direct from
JOHN W. DOYLE, Secretary, Trades-Hall, Sydney.
THE CAUSE OF TOOTH
DECAY IS "ACID
MOUTH."
THE Acid is Lactic
Acid, present in
most mouths,
and caused by fer-
menting food par-
ticles. It gradually
eats through the
enamel of Che
teeth.
W,
PEBECO
TOOTH
PASTE
overcomes
Acid Mouth.
While Pebeco
cleans the teeth
and keeps them
white, it over-
comes soft, bleeding -
glims a■ d maintains
the mouth in a
healthy condi-
tion. It is a soft,
smooth paste,
pleasant to the
taste, and valuable
in overcoming urn-
pleasant breath.
G. ARNOLD,
6 O’Connell St. p Sydney
(Wholesale Only).
THREE WITCHES
CIGARETTES.
2$
MORRIS'S I
ireeWtches
CItARITTI*
for
Undos
ratn
HIGHEST GRAGE.
5s per 100. Tost Free.
MICK SIMMONS, SYDNEY
Storekeepers and Tobacconists should
send for our Trade Lists.
gfds
g
Big G
Borated Goldenseal •
Compound
A safe and simple remedy tor
f Bronchitis, Catarrh, Hay Fever
lnflammations, Irritations, ulcer-
atlona of ALL mucous membranes
or linings of the nose, throat,
stomach or urinary organs.
at chemists
Why not cure yourself
Treatise ■with jach bottle
or mailed on roquost.
The Evans Genial Co.
Cincunmii, Ohio.
U.S.A.
sfdg
The Celebrated
French-Russia n
Ointment and
Cure for Eczema
in all its forms,
Nettle-rash, Erysipelas,
and all Chronic Skin
Diseases and Eruptions.
A certain, quick cure in even the
worst cases. _ ,
PRICE 6/6 A POT ; FOUR POTS, 25/-
These Remedies will be sent post free on receipt
of amount by THE PETERS MEDICINE CO., Pall
Mall, Bendigo, VICTORIA (Sole Commonwealth
Agents). >
RADI-OLKA
dsf
gsd
Si
•a
<*
o
fg
sfdg
sfd
£ y ts
gfds
g
rr
' 0t%
<p
fdg
sdf
Vi
gsfd
g
■MORRIS'!
IMPERIAL
-EYE.
ointment
cures


Amusements.
Lyric and cojloniajl theatres.
Nos. X and 2, Georg:© Street, Sydney.
Direction J. D. Williams.
PERPETUAL MOTION from 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
PATRONISED BY 6<>,noo PEOPLE WEEKLY.
Run Under the Continuous Show System now the Rage
of England and America.
English and American Prices of Admission.
Same Prices at Each Theatre :
STALLS 3d. DRESS CIRCLE 6d.
ENTIRE CHANGE OF PROGRAMMES TWICE
WEEKLY : MONDAYS and THURSDAYS.
Afternoon Tea is Popular. Afternoon Pictures are the
Rage.
We Cater Specially for Ladies and Children During
Morning and Afternoon Sessions.
Ladies’ Retiring Rooms and Lady Attendants.
If it is to he seen anywhere you will see it at our
THE MOTION.
We want you to compare our Programmes and our
Theatres with others which charge twice our prices of
Admission.
THE GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS
AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
INTERNATIONAL PICTURES. COLONIAL
Theatre Buildings, 610 George St., Sydney.
Mr. W. J. Moroan, General Manager.
This Company supplies the Lyric and Colonial Theatres
with all their phoio plays, and also supplies the leading
photo play concerns throughout Australasia. In fact,
we supply more shows with pictures than any other
three (3) concerns combined.
Don’t forget, Mr. Showman, to write or call.
We have the money-getters. We d< not represent any
one firm of photo plav manufacturers, but we represent
all the best. WE HAVE THOUSANDS OF EXCLUSIVE
SUBJECTS-EVERY ONE A WINNER.
Branches: Sutton Buildings, Melbourne ; Courier Build-
ings, Brisbane ; Wellington, New Zealand ; London,
England : Dewar House, Haymarket.
Just address your wire to “ International Pictures.”
That’s sufficient.
HER MAJESTY'S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager: J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
THE MELBA GRAND OPERA SEASON.
THE GREATEST MUSICAL OCCASION IN THE
HISTORY OF AUSTRALIA.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
THTTPcinAV CARMEN (Matinee).
THURSDAY (12th) { LA BOH EME (Evening).
FRIDAY (13th), SANSONE E DALILA.
Box Plan at Paling’s.
THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
* Lessee Hi Manager .. J. .. Wll ..,1 ,\Ms>o.>. in n.
THIS EVENING AT 8 O’CLOCK;
THE SPECKLED BAND.
THE DRAMATIC SENSATION OF THE YEAR.
Included in the Cast will be :
WILLIAM DESMOND, CYRIL MACKAY. J. B. ATHOL-
VooD, LESLIE VICTOR, SUSIE VAUGHAN, DOROTHY
DIX and GASTON MERVALE.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Prices as usual.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee: FRANK MUSGROVE.
THIS EVENING, AT 8 O’CLOCK.
England’s Most Notable Actress.
ethel Trying, in comedy.
A Revelation to Australian Audiences.
LADY Fli E DERiC K,
in Three Acts, by W. Somerset Maugham.
Box Plan EL-VY’S.
A!) ELP H I THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction and Management., Gkorok Marlow, Ltd,
TO-NIGHT AND EVERY EVENING.
GEORGE MARLOW’S BRILLIANT DRAMATIC CO.
in the Great Australian drama,
HUMPING THE BLUEY.
A GREAT SUCCESS.
Box Plan at Elvy's and White Rose Confectionery.
POPULAR PRICES —35., 2s. & Is. Early Door. fid. extra.
PALACE THEATRE. SYDNEY.
Direction Ai.LAN HAMILTON.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
PLIMMER-DENNISTON SEASON.
FOURTH WEEK and CONTINUED BRILLIANT
SUCCESS of
THE BEST ENGLISH PLAY OF THE YEAR,
NOBODY’S DAUGHTER,
POPULAR PRICES. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
FOR THE NURSES.
■f OWN HALL, SYDNEY.
SATURDAY NEXT, OCTOBER 14, at 8 p.m.
Messrs. Nicholson and Co., Ltd., with the assistance of
SYDNEY’S LEADING ARTIS IS, will tender a CONCERT
to the NURSES’ CLUB to aid tnem in purchasing a suit,
able Library for their new Imme in College Street-
Tickets may be obrained at Nicholson’s, and at the
various public hospitals. Prices: 3/- (Reserved), 2/-, 1/-
Plan now open at Nicholson’s.
GEORGE S. HOLBURN, Concert Manager.
National amphitheatre. Sydney.
Sole Proprietors—Brennan s Amphitheatres. Limited
Governing Director —Mr. James Brennan.
BRENNAN’S VAUDEVILLE ENTERTAINERS.
Farewell Appearance POTTER-HART WELL TRIO.
MAUDE MORTIMER, the Comedienne with a Voice.
JOHNSON and WELLS, Featuring “ Coon Opera.”
Ten Minutes of Laughs. QUEEN &LE BItUN.
WILL SULLIVAN, Lancashire Comedian.
PRICES AS USUAL.
AMATEUR TRIAL COMPETITIONS, FRIDAY
EVENINGS. Ist Prize, £2 2s. ; 2nd Prize, £1 Is.
JHE LYCEUM, SYDNEY.
SBENCEB’S PICTURES TTD.
Direction : C. SPENCER.
THE PREMIERE PICTURE HOUSE
IN AUSTRALIA.
PRICES AND PLAN AS USUAL.
WE CHANGE MONDAYS AND THURSDAYS.
gYDNEY GLACIARIUM
COLOSSAL PEOPLE'S ENTERTAINMENTS BY
WEST’S PICTURES, LTD.
“BEST OF ALL.”
FAMILY MATINEES—WEDNESDAY, 2.30.
DE GROEN’S VICE-REGAL ORCHESTRAS,
fid. to 2/- Plan at Nicholson’s (No extra Fee).
THE ALHAMBRA THEATRE,
Haymarket, Sydney.
Direction : E. J. KILPATRICK.
HOUSE OF CONTINUOUS EXCLUSIVE
PICTURES.
ALL AUSTRALIA.
“CROWNING GLORY” BIOGRAPH CONTEST.
£4O PRIZES.
For Entry Forms and all information address
ALHAMBRA THEATRE, SYDNEY.
-X
The victoria, pitt stree-K Sydney.
Direction FRANK MUSGROVE.
CONTINUOUS PHOTO-PLAY p”.
COOL, COMFORTABLE, SLIDING ROOFS.
TO BE SEEN !
“AT THE VICTORIA FIRST,”
ENTIRE CHANGE OF PROGRAMME TWICE
WEBKLY-MONDAYS and THURSDAY. ;
Id. and 3d. 0»a«, F, Jokm, Manager,
Amusement*.
TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
* Sole Proprietor .Si .Manager—Mu. Harry Rickards.
M ATI N FES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS
THE FINNEYS, in their Tank Divingand Swimming Act
THE SAXONYS, Vaudeville Dancers.
BARNEY ARMSTRONG & KELLY, English Comedians.
ZELINI, Last Word in Comedy Juggling.
THE FOUR KASRACS, European Comedy Acrobats.
HARRY ALLISTER, Character Impersonator.
And a GREAT COMPANY of Established Favorites.
PRICES—Bs., 2s. and Is. Plan at Paling’s.
Op eiTa hod se, iielboc rn e 7
Sole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
J. P. LING, Comedian and Mimic.
CLARKE and MOSTOL, Comedians and Dancers.
SAM MAYO, Coined an.
LOUIE TRACY, Character Impersonator.
GODFREY JAMES, Sing.ng Collier.
RIDICULOUS REOCO, Burlesque Acrobat.
BINNS and RINNS, in Cornedv and Music.
ALCIDE CAPITAINE, Lad/Gymnast.
Plan at Allan's. t-GT PICIOEs —as., 25., Is.
Amusements.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee : GEO. MARLOW LTD.
EVERY EVENING.
GEORGE MARLOW’S BRILLIANT DRAMATIC CO.
in
A GI IvL’S TEMPTATION.
Prices as Usual. Plan at Allan’s.
A
THEiM/EUM HALL, MELBOURNE.
Direction of j. <& N. TAIT.
EVERY EVENING.
THE ACKNOWLEDGED EMPEROR OF MAGIC—
NICOLA! NICOLA!
AND HIS ORIGINAL AMERICAN COMPANY OF
SENSATIONAL MYSTIFIEHS.
The Grandest ami Most Ari istie Production of the Age.
3/-, 2/- and 1 - Mitinees Wednesdays <fe Saturdays.
4/- in the £
DISCOUNT.
WE ARE TAKING OFF ALL
ELECTRO-PLATE TABLE WEAR.
WE have been able to make special
arrangements with the greatest and
best Manufacturers of England to
sell their Electro-Silver Products at 20 per
cent. Discount off their English Wholesale
Catalogue Prices.
This forced us to make similar reductions
on all our Electro-plate Stock.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
Plain Figures
Cash.
23 8 25 Hunter St.
Best Electro-plate on Hard White Metal, t3in. high..£6 0 0
Less 20 per cent .. 14 0
£4 16 0
BEST
sfdg
QUALITY
Sharpe's Sharp Castrating Knife
Made in SHEFFIELD by Expert Cutters.
Cutting blades, 2| inches; Fleam, Picker and Tweezer;
Smooth Horn Handle, inches; 4/6 Post Free.
SATISFACTION, or MONEY BACK. Other designs, 2/6 to 4/6.
SHARPE <& SHARPE, 18 Bridge Street, Sydney
WRITE
FOR
KNIFE
AND
VET.
LIST.
The BESSES O’ THE
POCKET
The Besses o* the Barn
have gone, but the,.,...,
Besses o* the Pocket
have come to stay.
CRAC
ACK
(SENIOR)
Built to Beat the Band
<1 The Reeds are made
of Bell Metal, and
are Tunsd to Perfec-
tion.
Crackajack Mouth ° r s ans
~V ■ «T* made in six styles
Crackajack Professional, 40 Reeds, 3/- Crackajack Double, 40 Reeds ... 1/-
Crackajack Senior, 20 Reeds ... 2/- Boss Cracker, 20 Reeds 1/-
Crackajack Junior, 20 Reeds ... 1/6 Crackajack Cadet, 20 Reeds .... 6d.
SOLD EVERYWHERE
Sole Agents————ALLAN & CO. PROP. LTD. Melbourne;
dsf
GUARD YOUR HOME AGAINST DISEASE.
Use Hycol, 18-20 times stronger than Carbolic Acid, and
Non-poisonoos. GET IT NOW*
Particulars from: — F. H* FAULDING & CO.,
Sydney.
the MQST PQWERf\jI
DISINFECTANT^
Amusements.
|_g ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
SATURDAY NEXT, OCTOBER 14.
FOR ONE WEEK ONLY.
MR. H. B. IRVING and
MISS DOROTHEA BAIRD
IN
LOUIS XI.
Prices as Usual. Plan at Allan’s.
TOWN HALL, MELBOURNE
■ Under direction of J. & N. Tait.
COMMENCING SATURDAY, OCTOBER 14
FOUR CONCERTS ONLY.
BEN DAVIES, England's Foremost Tenor,
and
ESTA d ARGO (Hetty llolroyd).
The Brilliant Soprano.
Supported bv HERR EDWARD GOT.L, Pinn'st.
BOX PLANS AT ALDAN’S. 3P-. ■> ~ 1,
The king’s theatre, Melbourne.
Sole Lessee and Manager : VViu.iam andkkhon.
A GREAT SUCCESS.
WM. ANDERSON’S DRAMATIC CO. in
ROY REDGRAVE’S version of MAI!IE CORELLI’S
novel,
THE SORROWS OE SATAN.
Box Plan at Allan's. PRICES—3s., and Is.
I*HEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE
A NOTABLE ATTRACTION.
Messrs. CLARKE and MEYNELL’S NEW
OPERA CO. in
THE CHOCOLATE SOLDIER
Plan at Allan’s. PRICES AS USUAL
OLYMPIA, OLYMPIA,
LYMPIA. MELBOURNE
(Just across Princes Bridge).
SPENCER’S THEATRESCOPE CO.
Presentinjr the Unrivalled
SPENCER’S PICTURES.
POPULAR PRICES FOR PERFECT PICTURES.
WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS at 2.30,
and EVERY EVENING at 8.
The glaciarium, Melbourne.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J.&N.TAIT’S
PICTURES.
ALL THE LATEST PICTURES from Europe & America.
A COMPLETE CHANGE WEEKLY. Prices—2/-. 1/6,
]/-, 6d. Matindes—Wednesday, Saturday, All Holidays.
U/EST’S PALACE, MELBOURNE.
the best WEST’S PICTURES, the best
OF ALL. LIMITED. OF AI.I*
Managing Director : Mr. T. J. Wkst.
NIGHTLY AT 8.
Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays & All Holidays at 2.»>.
Thk Grkatkst Pictorial Enthrprisk in tiik Worli>.
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
Any Moving Picture Worthy-of Note always to be seen at
WEST’S PICTURES. Coinplete-Change every week.
Prices —6d. to 2s. * \ ' Box Plan at Glen's.
LYRIC THEATRE, Chapel fit., Prahran, Yic.
EVERY NIGH fat 8. MATINEE" SATURDAY, at 2.30
THE FAMOUS “NON-FLICKER”
PHOTOPLAYS
on trie Marvellous “ Mack ” screen, tocetner wiwi the
Superb LYRIC ORCHESTRA. 6d. to 2s. Plans at
Allan’s, C. M. Read’s and the Lyric Theatre Caf6.
gsd
AIR-GAS IS SAFE
No danger to ani-
mal or plant life.
Safest light known.
Atmoslite Air Gas
consists of 98 per
cent, air and only 2
per cent, petrol, en-
tirely obviating all
possibility of acci-
dent. Cheaper and
more brilliant than
coal ga. . Adaptable
to lighting, heating,
cooking and shirt-
ironing. Send post-
for free cata-
logue.
Brandt Bros., Ltd.
LAMPHOUSE.
236 Pitt Bt., Sydney.
Elizabeth St., Velbiurne
MiqH.
Superior to
INJECTIONS
.CUBEBS and
COPAIBA.
Cures the same
diseases without
inconvenience
in
48 hours
Each Capsule bears the name
( m')
m
\WMVt at\A
Ho Mother shou\& he Wvthout \\.
\ ow request.
g
fdsg
A progressive dietary adapted to the growing digestive powers.
Milk Food No. 1
From birth to 3 months.
Milk Food No. 2
From 3 to 7 months.
Malted Food No. 3
From 7 months upwards.
sdfg
15-17 Market Street, Sydney


V
The Cup that
cheers but does
not inebriate!
Try it!
VAN
HOUTEN'S
COCOA
Best & Goes Farthest
w
Ask your grocer
for a gratis Van
Houten Novelty-
OLUr
The Friend of
Suffering Humanity
Solomon
Solution
Brings speedy, sure relief in most cases of
Rheumatism, Sciatica, Gout and kindred
troubles—and will cure the most obstinate
case if persevered with. Invaluable also
Sprains, Cuts, and many other simple ills.
2/6 Jars obtainable from your Chemist or Store-
keepers; post free for 3/- from
SOLOMON COX & SON
439 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
ARE YOU
Ruptured
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtsin an Appliance that is not
only COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one
THAT WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS. Then write us, and we will
send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE
Never mind if you have tried everything
else. This is something ENTIRELY NEW;
it is, in.fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing
leather understraps. The pad is made of
soft rubber, which exerts a GENTLE yet
FIRM PRESSURE on the CORRECT SPOT.
To show what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within
the reach of all. Can vr>u ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT, and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men. women & children.
lESCKIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins-st , Melbourne, Vic.
nVTOTICED the recent increase in the bulk of
XU Ihe Lone Hand? Of course, it is the
advertisers who are primarily to blame. They
will rush it, But it enables the proprietors to
give more reading matter for the same price—
Sixpence.
Australian Mutual Provident Society,
Establish™ 18,(1. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Princlots.
HAS MONEY TO LEND City S^»r U Suburban Properties, or 01
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
?rana V nTt^o“ e Nirz;i?anr LOWEST CURRENT HATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowinir Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to-20 ner cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Dirsctor“ The Hon A W. Meeks. M.L.C.. Ciiairinan : senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman . Benjamin
Shon Es a : The Hon. James Burns. M.L.C. : The Hon. R. J. Black. ML.C. : The Hon. F. E. W meheomoe M.W .
Adrian Knox. K«q.. K.C. General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece. Ua.,^H-A^,
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. H. W. APPERLY, Secreta y.
ROYAL
*!+
EXAMPLE
is a GUARANTEE for every purchaser of Phosferine that
the tonic is the verv best obtainable, embodies the highest skill,
and being the most potent remedy, benefits everyone equally
with Rovalty. The original and genuine preparation is spelt
PHOSFERINE
Honoured by
Commands from
The British
Royal Family
H.I.M. The
Empress of Russia
H.M. The
King of Greece
This world-renowned restorative medi-
cine has already for many years been
supplied by
ROYAL COMMANDS
To H.I.M. the Dowager Empress of
Russia
H.M. The Queen of Spain
H.I.H. the Grand Duchess of Hesse
H.I.H. the Grand Duchess Olga of
Russia
And the Principle Royalty and
Aristocracy throughout the world
THE KING’S STATE
BARGEMASTER
Honoured by
Commands front
H.M. The
Kin,/ of Spain
H.M. The Queen
of Roumania
The Imperial
Family of China
Mr. W. G. East, the King’s Bargemaster, writes: “Phosferine considerably increases one’s
powers of muscular endurance. Since taking Phosferine I have been free from Neuralgia and
Influenza, and have a better appetite and sleep well, and taking it all round I am sure I owe
it to Phosferine that I keep so well as I do ; Phosferine is the only tonic that agrees with me.
The Greatest of all Tonics
A PROVEN REMEDY FOR
Debility
Influenza
Indigestion
Sleeplessness
Exhaustion
Neuralgia
Maternity Weakness
Premature Decay
Mental Exhaustion
Loss of Appetite
Lassitude
Neuritis
Faintness
Brain-Fag
Ansemia
Backache
Rheumatism
Headache
Hysteria
Sciatica
and disorders consequent upon a reduced state of the neryous system.
SPECIAL WARNING
Insist upon having the original and genuine Phosferine (spelt
Phosferine) as supplied to Royalty, and prepared only by
Ashton & Parsons, Ltd., London. Similar names and styles are
deliberate attempts to deceive the purchaser, so do not be tricked
by appearance and sound into buying worthless imitations of
PHOSFERINE
The real Phosferine is the Royal Tonic, which fact assures
users that it is highly commended by the greatest: living physicians.
Refuse all imitations under names that mav be confused with
the original and genuine Phosferine, prepared only by
ASHTON & PARSONS, LTD., LONDON.
The 2/6 size contains nearly four times the 1/- size.
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
With her limitless potentialities, still in the process of initial development, Queensland
otters a field of unbounded scope to the investor, the scientist, the tourist, the prospective
settler and to the honest worker.
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
T. C. TROEDSON, Director.
Branch Office : 116 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W. A. MESTON, Local Director.
YOU DON’T KNOW WHAT A
* SMOKE 1 IS TILL YOU’VE
TRIED MY CIGARS
ftl
aufr\.
I’M going to have my Cigars smoked over every
part of Australasia —and the most confirmed
pipe-smokers are going to be the biggest
smokers of my Cigars, too.
Talk about joy! Why, to sit round a camp
fire, over a billy of tea, pitching to your mates,
each of you smoking one of my Cigars, joy isn't
in it! It’s just simply bliss!
As the yarns go round, the hlue smoke
curling upwards in a fragrant cloud, the
smooth cool Havana flavor lingering on your
lips—l tell you, you’ll spend some of the
happiest hours of your life.
Letters are coming in to
sdf
me in shoals from all over
Australasia, praising up my
Cigars. Take one I've just
got as I write this, for in-
stance —it's from a chap on a
cattle station up in Northern
Queensland. He writes: —
“Those DIADEMAS Cigars
ofyoursare just alright. I’ve
always smoked a pipe—but
no more. Not that I’ve given
up pipe-smoking altogether;
but when I want a real smoke
—something rich —I light up
one of your DIADEMAS,
and give myself up to its
pure enjoyment.”
To make you acquainted
with my Cigars, and prove
their value, I make you this
FREE OFFER of
5 or 6 CIGARS
you may select.
Send for 100 of any of
Remit the amount, and
I will deliver promptly,
postage or carriage paid,
to any address in Aus-
tralia.
Smoke 5 op 6 of them, and if they’re
not superior to most Cigars at double the
price, send the remainder back to me, and
I’ll return every penny of your money —no
charge made for the Cigars you’ve smoked.
My Cigars are made from the very finest
mild, rich mellow Tobacco, the filling or inside
heart of the cigar being all straight long
leaf. The Cigars are hand-made by skilled
workers, and every box has to pass me before
it goes out to a customer; and is guaranteed
to burn freely and draw easily.
There sno “catch" about this offer—it’s just
plain and honest. To prove it, you can refer
as to my financial position and way of doing
business to the Manager of the Commercial Bank
of Australia, Collins Street, Melbourne. He’ll
vouch for me.
Send down for a box to-day—once you smoke
them you 11 make it a habit, and buy regularly
from me. When ordering, say whether you
like light, medium, or dark colors.
My Only Address is
LOUIS KAUFFMANN
34 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE
SPRING SUITINGS, in
the Latest Novelties,
now opened up.
David Braham § Co.,
TAILORS,
76 Market St., Sydaey
(Next Door to Farmer’s).
Call or Write for Patterns.


OUR SPECIAL SNAPS.
m
C. H. Crawford’s D.8.8.L. Gun,
12- or 16-gauge, top lever, double bolt, 30in. barrels,
left choke, pistol grip, walnut stock, scroll engraved, bar locks, nitro proof, weight
of 12-gauge, about 7|lb. ; of 16-gauge, about 6ilb. ;
Greener cross-bolt. DELIVERED,
£4 12s. 6d,
gsfd
Stevens' “Little Krag,”
22 Calibre Rim Fire, bolt action, blued steel
round barrel, 20in. long, walnut stock, steel scroll trigger
guard, V-sight, length over all, 36in. ; weight about
Postage—l/6 N.S.W. ; 2/8 Inter-State.
78s. <ad.
SEND FOR OUR
Illustrated SPORTS,
FISHING and
TOBACCO LISTS,
FREE!
0
©
&
The “Continental” Combined Double
Barrel Shot Gun and Rifle,
30m. Krupp Steel Barrels, bar locks, cross bolt, the pun barrel full choke, 12-
gauge shot, 32 Winchester Rifle calibre, weight about 7£lb.
CARRIAGE PAID.
£6 10s.
g
“ Winchester ” Single Shot
Rifle, 1904 Model,
for 22 short or long rim fire cartridges, 21in. heavy
aeel barrel, plain trigger, bolt action, ladder rear sight, length of rifle over-
all, 37£m., bead front sight, with patent alloyed tip,
which will not tarnish ; weight, about 41b.
Postage—l/9 N.S.W. ; 3/2 Inter-State.
245. 6d.
MICK SIMMONS, Ltd.
Head Depot, HAYMARKET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches—Hunter St., Newcastle ; 273 Darling St., Balmain ; 197 Oxford
St., Sydney; Church St., Parramatta; 311 King St., Newtown. [3
Schute, Bell & Go.
LIMITED,
WOOL and PRODUCE BROKERS,
44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Sell on Commission only.
New and thoroughly up-to-
date Stores. Inspection
invited. Personal atten-
tion a feature of the
business.
A Steadily growing com-
pany.
WOOL STORES Harris Street, Pyrmont.
PRODUCE STORES—Athlone Place.
r
\
EVERY CYCLIST
should send for a free copy
°f the special Australasia
edition of the
B. S. A,
HA N D BOOK
It contains full particulars and
illustrations of the world
famous
trade marks
B.S.A.
B.S.A. CYCLE FITTINGS
EADIE COASTER HUBS
EADIE TWO-SPEEDS
B.S.A. THREE-SPEEDS
B.S.A. FREE-WHEELS
Each page is full of interest
and every rider fhould read
the valuable information
B , SA - TRADE
MARKS and TRANSFERS.
Write to
D. Y. RENNIE
(Representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.)
S Stock Exchange Building.
MELBOURNE
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ UNIVERSAL BICYCLE.
Built of genuine B.S.A. Parts with EADIE Two-speed Coaster Hub. Free Wheel
on both gears, Back-pedalling and Front-rim Brake, and Dunlop Tyres. As *
ridden by FRANCIS BIRTLES. £l2 10s. Write for Price List, post free.
Anthony Hordern vSons,
Only Universal Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
WILLIAMS’ Shaving Stick
lasts six months and costs
ONE SHILLING, or one quarter
of a farthing per shave.
You can buy CHEAP and RANCID SOAP for half
this price, and thus save one-eighth of a farthing on
each shave. Is it worth while?
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OP NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
graving's, new 1908 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 6d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter,, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth, 1/6.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Quadrille Call Book,
2s. Adventures of a Flirt, Is. 3d. Parlor Tricks
and Games, Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
Is 2d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. Howto
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc.. Is 2d post.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength; 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ss. Not Guilty (Blateh-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain for the
British, 6d. How to Read Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. Theory of Value, Is 6d. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, ls6d.
ss
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR "PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young-and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting- their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
i*“ BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH.-*!
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to
Win- at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle's
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River 5s 6d
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is Evepy
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made E A sy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is * post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), is 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d.
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How MoDougall Topped tiie Score, &
Other Verses, Is 3d. The Gay Count, Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
os 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Lee’s Priceless
Recipes, 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. |Established 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only)
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS A DVT.
♦
Write lor my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere {or the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, la
posted. New Thicks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
Is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d Dost. Hr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made, Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions of the King,
Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. 6d. Secret
History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. \ f.st Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post.
Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over SCO latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
ls2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy. Is post. lOONew
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and ls 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. Tiie Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.


KIDNEY TROUBLES AND BACKACHE.
A Great Sufferer Cured by
DR. SHELDON’S GIN PILLS.
S 3
3S
!
i
y*
>/
•v
s* *•
Mrs. MYRA LAKE
(From a Photo.).
Gin Pills are a splendid medicine for all women, and I shall
them, and also keep a bottle in the house.”
“I have been a
great sufferer with
kidney troubles
and gravel ever
since my baby was
born, about 18
months ago,”
writes Mrs. Myra
La*ke, 11 Hartley
Street, Rozelie,
N.S.W. “The pain
in my side was so
severe that I used
to moan. I also
suffered with scald-
ing, and my water
was like mud. For
my complaints I
tried everything I
could think of, hut
I derived no bene-
fit whatever. One
day I managed to
crawl up to my
mother’s place, and
she gave me a
bottle of Dr. Shel-
don’s Gin Pills, for
she said they were
the only thing that
would do me any
good. I took my
mother’s advice
and used the pills,
and they cured my
back, also my
other ailments, and
have made a new
woman of me alto-
gether. I can
now get ahead
with my house-
hold duties as well
as ever I did in my
life. Dr. Sheldon’s
always recommend
The Reliable Remedy for Ailing: Women.
Backache and Kidney Trouble are only too prevalent nowadays, and to suc-
cessfully cure them it is necessary to use a special remedy designed particularly
for this trouble. Such a remedy is Dr Sheldon’s Gin Pills, which have attracted
so much attention in. Australia during the past two years, on account of their
having relieved and cured so many cases of this kind.
They are a specially prepared Backache and Kidney Pill, entirely different
from any other remedy on the market, and infinitely more efficacious. A trial
will convince the most sceptical. Sold in two size glass containers, at 1/6 and
2/6 per bottle.
Dr.Sheldoris
GI N PILLS
BACKACHE
and Kidney Troubles.
THE LONE HAND
A Monthly Guide for everything
Australian.
6d
HOLLOWAY’S
Pills Ointment
A TRIAL of HOLLOWAY'S PILLS has meant
The Dawning of » Brighter Day
to many a sufferer from liver, kidney and stomach
troubles* For over three-score years and ten they
have been supreme in all cases of biliousness,
headache, indigestion, depression and other com-
plaints which usually arise from constipation.
You should also use HOLLOWAY'S OINT-
MENT, which possesses remarkable healing
virtues in cases of skin affections and sores,
rheumatism, lumbago, sciatica, etc. See to
it that you always have a box and pot handy*
To be obtained from all Chemists, Stores,
etc.
Manufactured only at
113 SOUTHWARK ST. (/ate 76 New Oxford St.), LONDON, S.E.
Ballad of St. Dynamite.
[FOR THE BULLEITN.]
The chief interest of the book is in a number of
explosions in . verse, more forceful than elegant.—
llecent Red Page review of a Yankee bard.
OLORD, in Thy ledgers of Heaven,
’Midst entries three-billions-and-
tliree,
Let One Line of Credit be given
To the Bards Who Have Blasted and Striven
To make this humanity gee !
There is praise for the deacons seraphic,
There are harps for the saints in the
pews;
In the census of souls and their traffic
Keep a space for the Bards Who Are
Graphic
And abrupt in expressing their views!
For Thou knowest that each is a prophet,
And that fervor abides in his curse ;
0 Lord, lest the Wowsers should scoff it,
Keep a page or a small corner of it
For the praise and reward of each prophet
Exploding in Verse!
Yes, Lord, ’midst the rust and corrosion—
’Midst the dross and the slush and the
11am ;
There is need for the Priests of Explosion;
So. here, I give notice of motion
Ere the Books of Eternity slam!
It is moved that a saint’s white apparel
Be reserved for the Bard Who Goes Bang;
Keep a harp and a crown—keep a barrel
For the Bard with a Fuse to his Carol,
And whose psalm stirs the herd with its
clang!
Yea, Thou knowest that Man needs a spasm
To arouse him from slumber and worse;
When his feet graze the edge of the chasim —
Then, to waken the stiff protoplasm,
There is need for a Bard with a Spasm
Of Dynamite-Verse!
In days when the hearts of the Chosen
Were estranged from the worship of
Thee ;
When the faith of old Judah was frozen,
Didst Thou send them a score or a dozen
Of Bishops in full panoply?
Nay, Thine hand from the earth mixed a
Singer—
Into dust didst Thou breathe forth Thy
soul;
And the Bard who was fierce and a stinger—-
He was sent as Thine own challenge-
flinger,
And he dragged stupid Man to Thy goal!
Wherefore, Lord, in a day that is cruder —
Yea, when Man breathes his prayers to
the Bourse ;
As Thou blest then the Wakers of Judah.
Keep a crown for the Bards Who Are
Ruder —
Who are blasting an age that is cruder
With Brimstone in Verse!
Keep, I pray, a fair saint-ship in Heaven
For the Bards Who Explode With a Vim;
They have toiled and have called and have
striven —
Unto each let a halo be given ;
Also, save them a harp and a hymn ! .
They are Thine —’tis Thy spirit volcanic
Which inspires them to howl and to smite;
They are foes to the creed aldermanic—
And in days when the earth quakes with
panic
There is need for the Saint Who can
Fight.
For Thou knowest that he is a Preacher,
Shoving hard at Inanity’s hearse;
In the Day when each wakened beseecher
Calls aloud. Thou shalt say: “Bring the
Teacher —
There in room ’mid the stars for the Preacher
Who Blasted in Verse!”
Victoria.
GRANT HERVEY.
Antonio McGinnis—Destroyer.
[FOR THE BULLEITN.]
DID you ever hear of Antonio Mc-
Ginnis?” asked the spare, bronzed
man in the opposite seat.
The so-called express had run into a.
swarm of grasshoppers on a hot hillside 38
miles from anywhere, and had been brought
to a full-stop with its hundred or so wheels
so greasy that there was no more grip in
them than in oiled glass. The train crew
were doing something to clear the line, but
only the more feverishly energetic passengers
had climbed down to watch them at it; the
majority of the train’s population preferred
to sit in the baked carriages and enjoy the
rest. 1 had commenced a travelling friend-
ship with the man opposite by lending him
an American magazine containing an article
on the passing of the chestnut trees owing to
the ravages "of a deadly fungus. This he
had been reading when he suddenly fired the
question about Mr. McGinnis at me.
“No-o,” I replied doubtfully. “I can’t
say that I ever heard of him.”
The bronzed stranger dived his thumb and
forefinger into his right waistcoat-pocket,
and extracted a scratched silver matchbox.
He opened it and shook it twice gently over
his open palm. At the second try, a small
red beetle fell out and lay on its back, kick-
ing out sleepily with about 20 legs.
“That’s Tony,” said the stranger, and
carefully turned the beetle right side up. It
immediately started a six-days’ race against
time, going slowly round and round at an
even pace on the floor of hard, brown flesh.
“Did you christen him yourself?” I asked.
“Not exactly,” replied the stranger in a
sad voice. “Antonio McGinnis is the near-
est I can get to his proper Latin luggage-
label. Have you seen enough of him?
Bight!” He carefully replaced McGinnis in
his silver house, put the house back in his
tight-hand vest pocket and dived into his
left, from which he took out a gunmetal
toatchbox. Out of this he emptied a black
beetle about half the size of the departed
McGinnis. “Peter Jackson,” he explained
firoudly; “the best-hearted beetle ill the
World! He ..would have saved me if I had
bnly made his acquaintance a few toOfitliS
earlier than I did. But he did his best,
and I’m grateful for it. Back you go, Jack,
bid boy!” The small, dazed insect was
tinned gently into his case, and replaced in
the vest pocket. Then the stranger took up
the magazine again and leant back in his
seat. “This article reminded me of old
times, he went on in his mournful mono-
tone. “It makes me think of the days when
I had a 99-year lease of one of these South
pea volcanic boil-over islands, with, a few
hundred half-tame niggers, and the material
tor h hew breakfast food in the shape of a
superior variety of banana. I discovered
that Eden for myself; and I reckon I would
have been President of the Chamber of Com-
merce by now, with a motor-car and a house
at Bellevue Hill, but for a scientific beast
called Midgely and this d —d McGinnis.”
He tapped his waistcoat-pocket, and some-
thing chinked inside, “Wonder if the top of
that matchbox is loose?” he mumbled, feel-
ing with his thumb and forefinger.
I seized the opportunity to jump up and
reverse my suit-case in the rack just above
his head.
“There’s no destroyer like the one you can
stick in a matchbox or lose on a threepenny-
bit ; and the man who knows where to find
him and how to sool him on is more danger-
ous than the boss of a Japanese army corps.
Turn 10,000 men into a place and tell ’em
to do their worst. They will only cut down
and destroy for a generation or two; but
get a handful of fungus, or a pair of the
McGinnis family, and they'll settle your
bash for good and all. If you would care to
hear the yarn, I’ll tell you how I found out.”
Now I hate listening to stories; for most
of them are merely long-winded lies; but,
most of all, I hate listening to a long story
in a clattering train where you have to lean
forward in an uncomfortable position, and
strain your ears in order that you may get
some' inkling of what the storyteller, or liar,
is gabbling about. But this man had me
nailed ; I had encouraged him to begin, and
there was no escape. So I clasped my hands,
and said I would be delighted.
He started on the. instant, like a fretting
favorite when the gate flies up in front of
the field. “About 20 years ago I was super-
cargo on a recruiting schooner in the Solo-
mons. One night we were anchored in a
God-forsaken bay when another schooner,
with ‘Emerald’ on her bows in gold lettering,
came up from nowhere in particular, and
dropped anchor close by. The skipper and I
jumped into the boat, and went across to
pay our respects, and find out what she was
after.: A big, blue-eyed fellow met us at the
gangway and took us below, where, over a
bottle of squareface, he told us that he was
making for Sydney with a cargo of copra,
and had put in for fresh water. We yarned
for an hour or two ; then fie brought out a
new variety of banana he had picked up on
a little island distant about four days’ sail.
I tasted the fruit, found them delicious, and
immediately became interested. I was al-
ways imaginative in a commercial sense, and
I began to see myself as a capitalist knocking
the stuffing out of the Fiji banana trade with
a new variety of the stodgy picnic-basket
stand-by. I asked him questions, and more
questions till he was dazed and dry in the
mouth; and I came back to the old black-
birder resolved to get a lease of that island
and start. Well, to make a long story
snort”
I sighed.
“I hope I’m not tiring you,” he snapped.
I pulled myself together hurriedly. “Not
at all!' Please go on.”
“Well, after a lot of trouble, I got a lease
of the island. Then I got some capital and
bogged in solidly. Within two years I had
a small army of boys working for me, some
thousands of bearing trees, and the begin-
nings of a trade. (I am leaving out the
details so as not to weary you.)”
“It is really very interesting,” I mut-
tered, beginning to feel faint.
“Although I was making something like a
fortune, I wasn’t satisfied to let it go at
that. I had an idea of making a patent
breakfast food out of my fruit. 1 wanted to
get my fingers into the wool of the world’s
trade, scoop the pool, get out of business,
get into politics, and win a knighthood, or
else buy one by donations to charities. It
was a fine large programme; but I was set
on carrying it through, for I wanted a cer-
tain girl who had told me five times (twice
orally, twice by mail, and once by cable)
that she had set her heart on marrying a
nobleman. Personally I wouldn’t have given
a hundred quid for a dukedom ; but I was
gone on the girl; and, as she was wonder-
fully pretty, and moved with the best soci-
ety. she looked to have a pretty fair chance
of getting a K.C.M.G. at the very least. How
to get rich quick, and be made the first
banana knight, kept me awake for many
nights in my lonely bungalow, until I struck
tne idea of the breakfast food. I made a
few experiments, which satisfied me; then I
started to get busy and write to flour-millers
and people of that sort. At last I had to
come to Sydney, where the girl was living,
to make arrangements for the manufacture
of the stuff' on a large scale. I went to see
Evangeline as soon as I got ashore, and I
didn’t need a th&rrpOmeter to see she had
cooled off considerably so far as I was con-
cerned. The reason for it was spread out on
a cane armchair in the verandah. It was a
miserable rat of a University chemist by the
name of Midgely. God only knows what
made that peerless girl take a fancy to such
a d —d snipe of a man!”
“Excuse me!” I mumbled, turning pale,
ana groped for my book, which had slipped
off mv knee.
“Anyhow, there he was in full possession ;
and I bad to get back to my ocean hermit-
age by the next boat, which was due to leave
in three weeks time. It was a maddening
situation. I felt that I could not leave her
there with him ; and yet there seemed to be
nothing else for it, I turned the thing over
in my mind, and at last I struck the idea of
asking the lot of them—that is, Evangeline
and her mother and father —to come back
with me ard, stay on the island for a month
or so. The scheme tickled the old man’s
fancy, and as he had tons of money and
time to burn, the whole thing went through
line smoke, bajr one point. He asked me to
invite Midgely also.
“All things considered, Midgely and I got
on pretty well together on the island, and
bloodshed was averted. But the first time I
got him alone on the plantation, I told him
plainly that Eva and I were half engaged,
and that I Would take it as a favor if he
would lose himself occasionally, instead of
falling in on the othef aide, aa he had been
doing Up to theh, whenever I asked her out
to have a look at my tree-wealth.
“ ‘All right,’ said the little snipe, qUiet as
you like; and from that day, whenever I sug i
gested a promenade, he'would get his butter-
fly net or some gear of the kind and go off
on a lonely bug-hunt.
“I suppose I was so infatuated I really
didn’t know what I was doing. I don’t think
I would have declared war openly in that
fool way if I had been in my ordinary busi-
ness senses.
“Well, the month ebbed away day by day
and I went about like a blithering idiot, tak-
ing it for granted that all was right with the
world, until the morning fixed for the de-
(Continued on next page.)


wm
u
US
M
; S';i<
v/S/sA w/ssj/-
•>:*
UMK
THE EVER-READY HEALER
AND PERFECT SKIN-CURE.
IN the course of her duties the nurse is
brought into contact with every descrip-
tion of skin disease. She is also brought
to fully realise the need for a reliable healing
balm which can be applied to diseased and
wounded skin with every confidence that
only good will result.
The fact that hundreds of nurses use
Zam-Buk in the course of their
duties is further proof, if such were
needed, that in Zam-Buk the public
is furnished with a reliable healing
balm and skin-cure, the purity and
power of which cannot be denied
Below we quote the opinion of three
of the many trained nurses who have
of Zam-Buk.
I
v?
t
written in praise
in
NURSE SMITH
NURSE SMITH, who resides in Underwood
Street, Paddington, Sydney, writes:—‘‘After exten-
sive experience 1 can confidently affirm that Zam-
iiuk is t)ie best healing halm I have ever used. In
my professional work I often have urgent need of it,
as, on account of its great antiseptic virtues, I find
it unequalled for use in cases where dangerous
symptoms threaten, as in the after-effects of child-
birth. I would not be without a pot of Zam-Buk in
the house.”
■m *V,^ RSE LAWSON, of Evelyn Street, Balaclava,
Melbourne, says:—“As an all-round healer for all
descriptions of home hurts, I consider Zam-Buk
invaluable. I have used it in connection with my
nursing cases, and have pleasure in testifying to its
sterling antiseptic and healing qualities.”
, NURSE SHAW, of 7 Gibbs Street, Balaclava,
Melbourne, Vic., says “ For 25 years I have been
a resident of Balaclava, and most of that time I
have devoted to nursing. In my experience I
have found Zam-Buk of very great use. I have
used Zam-Buk for cuts, sores, and all
criptions of skin disease, which liave
brought under my notice, all with
vellous success.”
des-
been
niar-
frmßiik
□
EVEftV HOME NEEDS A .a n ,
Zam-Buk is a
proved remedy
for eczema, boils,
sores. bruises,
cuts, blackheads,
pimples, sore
feet. etc. From
all chemists and
stores at Is. 6d.
and 3s. 6d. per
pot.
EVENTUALLY!
5^
WHY NOT NOW?
Write for Particulars
GENERAL MANAGER: W. J. MORGAN.
COLONIAL THEATRE BUILDINGS, 610 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
A BIG CONCERN WITH A BIG REPUTATION.
Biggest Buyers of Photo Plays in the World.
ADVERTISE YOU SHOW INTERNATIONAL PICTURES, AND
WATCH YOUR RECEIPTS GO UP.
WRITE FOR PARTICULARS, OR CALL AND SEE IT IN ACTUAL OPERATION.
THE POWERS’ CAMERAGRAPH
Used at the Colonials, Lyric and Melba Theatres for Twelve Hours Daily. Enough Said.
BRANCHES—
SUTTON’S BUILDING, MELBOURNE. FOWLD’S BUILDINGS, WELLINGTON.
COURIER BUILDINGS, BRISBANE. DEWAR HOUSE, 11 HAYMARKET, LONDON.
The Greater J. D. Williams Amusement Co.
Capital £200,000. Ltd.
parture of the party in my lugger to catch
the monthly steamer.
“On that day I had awakened a bit earlier
than usual, and was taking an early-morning
stroll, when I came upon Midgely examining
the trunk of one of the young trees in a
business-like way. He had his back to me
and_ didn’t notice my approach. I stood just
behind him for a minute watching; then I
said: ‘Good morning. Got anything new
there ?’
“The little beggar jumped about 10ft. in
the air. When he hit the ground again, he
turned round, red as a turkey-cock, and, mut-
tered something about a new species.
“‘What is it like?’ I said; and, going
over, saw a little, red beetle, a shade bigger
than a fly, hurrying upstairs at the rate of
five inches an hour. ‘Doesn’t look anything
out of the way,’ I remarked.
“ ‘lt isn’t, old man,’ said he. ‘Let’s go in
and have a drink.’
“I thought at the time he seemed to be in
a hurry to get away from that beetle; but I
didn’t worry about it. Next morning, at 7,
I stood on my own busted bit of coral strand
and waved my hat to the lugger; and
Midgely, with one of my cigars stuck in his
face, waved back with the others. In the
plantations at my back, about 15 colonies of
the McGinnis family were getting ready to
start on a jamboree. Of course, they had all
been set up in business by Midgely, but that
fact didn’t occur to me until three months
later, when the place was found to be alive
with the little beasts. Then I remembered
the morning I had surprised Midgely.
“Well, I didn’t sit down and wait for red
ruin to crawl all over me. I cabled right
away to Sydney, and kept cabling until a
first-class man was on his way up. I. met him
at the steamer terminus and rushed him to the
island as fast as I could. As soon as we
landed, I hurried him out and showed him
one of the infected trees. He nipped a glass
out of his pocket and dug at the trunk until
he got one of the little blighters. One look
at him satisfied the bug-hunter. ‘That’s An-
tonio,’ he says, ‘Antonio McGinnis. There’s
only one thing that will beat him, and that’s
Peter Jackson.’ (That’s as near as I can
get to the name he gave him.)
“ ‘How soon can we get Peter Jackson
after him?’ said I.
“ ‘I brought him with me on spec,’ says
the bug-hunter, ‘as he was more likely to be
wanted than anybody else. If we can get a
few colonies well started, and the weather
keeps hot, we may be able to save the trees.
Peter will knock spots off McGinnis, and eat
him afterwards—that is a sure thing. But it
is hard to say if he will do it in time to
save the trees, because the McGinnis crowd
have a long start. You should not have
started without Jackson —no planter should.
It is like a city starting without a police
force.’
“That chap fixed up his Peter Jacksons
in summer quarters, gave them his blessing,
and looked after them like a certificated
nurse and three grandmothers rolled into
one. When he had got them to rights, he
showed me the trees, and said, ‘ln two
months the McGinnis family, who are now
higher up burgling the upper branches and
the fruit, and blighting the future worse
than an Upper House, won’t know what’s
struck them. You wait and see.’
“I wanted to see badly; but I had to
wait, and a hard job it was. Luckily the
weather kept hot, and the Jacksons’ sum in
multiplication wasn’t interrupted by rain.
One blistering morning, Masfield —that was
the bug-hunter’s name—yelled out, ‘Get up
and have a look ! The Jacksons are acting
on information received, and are going up-
stairs after the McGinnis gang !’
“I was out of bed and scooting for a tree
almost before I was awake. Masfield pointed
to the thin, black trickle of Jacksons and
laughed. ‘Look at them ! For all the world
like policemen coming out of the station to
go on duty. See this chap here who’s stopped
for a minute to rub his second pair of legs
on his stomach! He’s buttoning up his
tunic! Look at this chap rubbing his front
legs over his head! He’s putting his helmet
straight! There’s one rubbing his nippers
together! Either someone’s told him some-
thing, or else he sees the McGinnis he wants
right ahead, and has spat on his hands for
luck! In about half an hour the police will
be up with the gang, and you’ll be able to
see for yourself how they handle them. In
the meanwhile, we may as well get our break-
fast.’
“We went in and swallowed the morning
meal. Then I got a couple of the boys to
bring along a ladder, and we went out to see
if any arrests had been made. I tell you it
did me good when I climbed up the first
withered tree and saw the first Constable
Jackson knocking h—l out of a fat McGin-
nis stuffed with plunder. First he would
life him into the air and bang him on tin-
floor ; then he would lift him above his head,
whirl him round, bring him down with a
crash, and trample on his chest with his
hind legs. This performance, so Masfield
told me, was merely the preliminary to a
cannibal feast which would last for days.
Once a Jackson locked his nippers on a
McGinnis, he could not be separated from
him; you could pull him in half, but his grip
would not relax. Well, I spent the morning
going round and watching the force dealing
it out to the red robbers. The only thing
that kept me from cheering was Masfield's
doubt as to whether the trees would recover.
Of the extinction of the McGinnis trouble
within three months he had no doubt what-
ever ; but the salving of the trees was an-
other matter. It would not be possible to
say until the beginning of the year. That
meant nearly 10 months waiting. He said
he would like to have stayed, but he had to
get back to his duties. I paid him twice the
fee he asked, and told him that, if the trees
recovered, and the breakfast food was a suc-
cess, I would do something mox-e for him.
A week later, he went off proud and happy ;
and I sat down to wait for the verdict. At
the end of the term, my beautiful trees —the
only ones of their kind—were dead, and I
was a ruined man. There was a general
cleaning-up and cleaning-out, the end of
which was that I paid a penny in the pound
(40.000 pennies), and went on a monumental
jamboree.”
The spare, bronzed stranger sighed, clasped
his hands, and looked long and sadly at his
boots. I began to hope that he had finished,
for I feared that my hair was standing up. But
he hadn’t. Before I could head him off, he
resumed again above the roar and clatter of
the wheels.
“I didn’t see Eva until eight years after
I had filed my schedule. It was up in Bris-
bane at some d —d bazaar or other, where
I was acting as doorkeeper. (Yes, I had
come down to that.) She sailed in like a
ship under full sail on the arm of a wizened
old man who looked like a steamy little pro-
vidore’s tug. I suppose I must have gone
mad, for I chucked my handful of tickets on
the floor, and ran after her, crying out, 'Eva,
don’t you know me? I’m Jack 1 Eva,!’
In a minute that rotten show was buzzing
like a hatful of bees. 'The man’s drunk!’ I
heard a woman say. 'lie’s calling Lady Bar-
case by her Christian name!’ At the same
moment, something caught me from behind
and spun me round. I found that a red-
faced sergeant of police had hold of me.
‘Are you a re-lation of Lady Barcase?’ he
demanded.
“‘Who is Lady Barcase?’ I panted.
“ ‘The lady you insulted be hailin’- —wife of
Sir James Barcase, Chief Justice.’
“ ‘Take me out!’ I said, for I felt sick.
“‘I will that!’ muttered the sergeant, and
he propelled me through the crowd to the
manager’s office in the grounds, where I man-
aged to clear my character and get away
without meeting Sir James or his lady. I
have never met Eva since; and to this day 1
don’t know why she never married Midgely.
The strange part of the affair is that I
have never been able to trace Midgely.
I got over yearning for Eva years ago; but I
want Midgely worse than ever. I would
give all I’ve got in the world for five min-
utes with him. I would not keep him long.
I merely want to strangle him with my own
hands. After I have done with him anyone
can have him.”
“Good God !” I muttered, recoiling from the
rage-distorted face of my fellow-passenger.
The train commenced to slow down. The
disappointed man jumped to the window and
looked out. “My station!” he said, and
started to tug at the handle of his bag at the
back of the rack.
“Be careful!" I cried, with a chill fleeing
down my spine, and jumped at my tottering
suit-case. To save possible trouble, I lifted
it off the rack altogether and put it on the
floor with the name downwards.
He got out, put his bag on the platform,
and shut the door. “Hope I haven’t bored
you?” he remarked in his mournful way.
“Not a bit,” I said in a cold perspiration.
“I found it most interesting. Good-bye.”
_ The guard’s whistle shrilled out, the en-
gine hooted hoarsely in reply, and the train
drew out of the station on the last stage of
its journey. When I recovered my senses I
looked at my watch. It was just 11 a.m.
In three more hours I would be on the
England-bound mail-boat, with nothing to do
for six weeks but take my ease and conjure
up pleasant visions. It had been a hig’hly-
profitable trip, and I could look forward to
settling down in London for good.
I sighed gratefully. “There are advan-
tages,” I said, “even about small-nox and
baldness. They are a disguise.” I turned
my bag over and looked long and earnestly
at tire inscription upon it—“J. M. Midgely.”
It fascinated me as if I had never seen it
before
KODAK.
The Last War.
[FOR THE BULLEITN.]
HE person who wore a goat skin
climbed the mountain. The crisp
snow was cold under his feet, but the
sun shone warmly on his shoulders and back.
And as lie looked out over the world he
exulted in his pride, and cried aloud: “Why,
strike me pink, I’m the boss of this blooming
planet. Behold, I have killed a lion and a
he-bgar, and I’m blowed if I think even an
old man-eating tiger could down me in fair
go.”
And as he exulted in his pride, Brahm
tiddled with a little piece of dirt.
And as the man went down the mountain
he met a woman that was fair to look upon.
And . straightway he loved her, and said:
“What ho, Eliza! Let’s go to the registrar
and fix it up. for, behold, we be two proper
persons, and the whole world boweth at our
feet. Yea, and moreover, I’m jiggered if we
ain’t boss of the whole show, Eliza.”
And as they went on their way to tin
registrar, Brahm twisted the dirt until il
became very small in his fingers.
So the man and woman were wed, and
their children were many and strong. And,
behold, they builded them cities, and planted
cabbages and onions, and appointed land-
lords to collect the rents, and waxed fat, and
became a great people.
And Brahm gave unto the little piece of
dirt that was in his hands six legs.
And the people of the children of Eliza
made unto themselves civilisation. Yea, they
wrapped themselves up in many clothes, and
wore belltoppers, and spoke mincingly; but
their meat was the beef of bulls, and their
drink the beer of Beth-horon.
And Brahm gave to the piece of dirt that
was in his hand wings that it might fly.
And the people that were of the children
of Eliza said : "Behold, we are a great people,
and there is nothing that we cannot accom-
plish if we damn well please.”
And Brahm whispered to the little piece
of dirt, and it flew away.
And the sons and daughters of Eliza
feasted and sang. They also gave charity
matinees, and rolled themselves amid the
surf that is upon the sea shore. And they
said : “Behold, we are as gods, and if we pay
sixpence we will have sixpenceworth.”
And Brahm laughed.
And, behold, the thing with six legs that
Brahm had made gat him a wife; and the
multiplication of their children was exceed-
ing great.
And while the children of Eliza rioted and
feasted in tne cities of their building the
children of the thing that Brahm had formed
made war upon them.
And Brahm laughed.
And the people of the children of Eliza
rose up early in the morning and swore
mightily, but their enemies prevailed against
them until much people died. .
And Brahm laughed.
arose all the mighty ones, the sons
and the daughters of the man that was the
husband of Eliza: and they took unto them
disinfectants, and medicines, and kerosene,
fui 1 *° f r C i£ lone ! a ’ and pressed hard after
the host of them that had six legs.
, This is the last war ; and it shall be
spoken
CURSE o’ MOSES.


r‘~
/•
ngme
hmi
For STATIONARY
and MARINE
PURPOSES
No
Carburetter
or
V * A
Vaporiser.
sfdg
No
Ignition
Apparatus.
makes the following claims upon your attention :
1 — It uses cheap lamp oil (such as kerosene), and other residuals.
2 The oil is injected directly into the cylinder, thus dispensing with unre-
liable and inefficient vaporisers.
3 It is very simple in construction, there being no electric ignition or other
complicated mechanism.
4 Its speeds are such that electric generators and centrifugal pumps may
be coupled direct.
5 No skilled labor is required, the supply of fuel and lubricant being all
the attention npcessary.
FULL PARTICULARS FROM
The Westinghouse Brake Company of Australasia Ltd.,
14 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY,
Queensland Agents: Holmes & Church, Brisbane.
fsd
Live in Comfort
in the Hot Weather
IT COSTS VERY LITTLE FOR OUR FANS.
THEY RUN FOR SEVERAL HOURS for Id.
W. G. WATSON 8 CO., LTD.,
171 Clarence St.,
SYDNEY.
THE LARGEST PLANT—WELL ORGANISED !
In every phase of removal and carrying work, we are experts.
We have spacious storage accommodation, large vans, and small carts
manned by experienced men. We can save YOU time, trouble and
money. May we send you a quote ? ’Phone City 1290.
SANDERS, SUTTON & WHITEHEAD LTD.,
Removal, Storage and Carrying- Experts,
HEAD OFFICE 43 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
DEPOTS: Chatswood, Mosman, Waverley, Burwood, Dulwich Hill,
Kogarah, Parramatta and Manly.
FRIEND
r
GUARANTEED TWO YEARS.
gsfd
g
fdsg
This is our
4-h.p. Portable
Wood Saw
Outfit.
WE ARE THE ONLY FIRM ADVERTISING
OUR PRICES OPENLY.
Don’t be misled by competitors who offer “lowest prices and long terms.”
No one can sell an engine of equal quality under DOUBLE OUR PRICES.
Get their prices and compare them with ours. We have an immense
sale, and this allows of small profits on our big turnover.
dg
All complete, with Tanks and Pipes, f.o.b.
Sydney. You have no fittings to buy—
Everything is supplied by us.
Small Deposit.
Long Terms.
Write lor Catalogues and full particulars of All Kinds of Oil Engines,
Pumping, Chaffcutting, and all other Classes of Machinery.
PARTRIDGE & HODGSON,
!3£.,49 YORK STREET, SYDNEY; 539 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
THE BEST STORIES written in Australia
appear in The Lone Hand each month.
Price sixpence.
BOOKS WORTH READING. The new
guide to ttie new fiction appears in each
issue of The Lone Hand.
.
/T
V
v.
d
N
n
V
2?
A
Ws.
o*y/A
?r
%
Yu
LOOK WELL AFTER
BEEChAM’s Pills
AND YOU WILL LOOK WELL AFTER.
BUSINESS MEN and OTHERS in need of FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE
SHOULD consult
CITY FINANCE COMPANY LIMITED,
Palmer's Chambers, 289 Pitt St., Sydney,
who LEND MONEY on any REASONABLE SECURITY
from 10 PER CENT, per annum. FRI O. McWii.u.xM. Manager.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
kjw—n—■ '«.l’-g-mii'i.-mjm'.'*WLWmmwUMlMJtHaiflWM.aiLßlfcflgaMM—
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Club Rum*
Dog Head Stout. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
Dinnefords
Magnesia.
DINNEFORDS
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see that
“Dinneford & Co.”
is on every bottle
and label, i
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
MAGNESIA
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heattburn, Indigestion, Sour Eruetations, Bilious Affections.
sfd
Colored and Artistic
Post Cards.
NO MONEY WANTED.
Send us your name and address and we will forward vou 12 packets, each
containing d of our colored and high art Post Cards to sell for us at *d.
per pac ;et. \\ hen you have sold the cards, return us our s., and we will
send you for your trouble any present you may choose from the list of
jewellery which we forward. v continuing the sale of our cards you
can earn a Ladies’ or Gent.’s Silver Watch and Chain.
Remember, we want to do business with you again. ;,nd to do this
we must give you full satisfaction We take all the risk. v on
can return the cards if not sold. We have no connection with;
any other Firm. we are the largest dealers in post cards in Australia, aim import our
jewellery, or we could not mase you this liberal offer, he the first in your district. Our post
cards sell at once, wherever seen.
REGAL POST CARD CO. 126 BMD ST.. SYDNEY.
fsd
F
R
E
E


ARCHITECTS specify
Mack partitions
and have a Fire-Proof^
Sound-Proof
and Vermin-Proof
DIVIDING WALL.
Write for our Catalogue, or call and inspect.
MACK LTD..
Royal Insurance Buildings,
Cor. PITT and SPRING STREETS, SYDNEY.
Melbourne Office: 19 Queen Street.
TELEPHONES.
House, Long-Distance and all kinds of Telephone
Equipment in stock—Low Prices .
Dynamos, Motors, Cables and Wires, and every-
thing in Electrical Supplies on hand.
WRITE FOR PRICE LISTS TO
T. K. STEANES, 37-43 Pitt Street, Sydney.
DICK’S PATENT
gsfd
THE ORIGINAL AND
GENUINE BALATA.
TRADfc.
3E33E5
g
The STRONCEST and most EFFICIENT yet produced
Every Belt GUARANTEED. As a guard against inferior
imitations, look for the TRADE MARK on every few feet.
Sole
Importers:
Hardie & Co.,
West Circular Quay, Sydney, and at Melbourne.
Tangye Oil Engine
GUARANTEED
TO GIVE THE BEST POSSIBLE RESULTS
for
SHEARING, SAWING, PUMPING,
CHAFFCUTTING, etc.
DALGETY 8 CO. LTD.
Agents for
Australia.
%
\felf
I
HE
MACHINES
& CO
Clayton and Shuttleworth
Portable Steam Engine
THE LONG ESTABLISHED FAVORITE
WITH AUSTRALIAN PASTORALISTS.
FOR US£ ON THE FARM AND STATION.
DALGETY 8 CO. LTD.
Agents forN.S.W.
and Queensland.
H.P. GREGORY cCO.,
Engineers and Genera! Machinery Merchants,
74 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Fay & Egan Co. ’s
Planers, Matchers, Mo/ders,
Single and Double Spindle
Shapers, Sanders, Saw Benches, Band Saw Machines
Wood ' - '
Simonds’
Circular Saws, Wide and Narrow Band Saw
Blades and Files, Saw Sharpeners, Emery
Wheels, Shafting, Steel Split Pulleys .
IN STO CK—Co triple te Lines of Machines and Suppiies for the
Sawmiiier, Cabinet Maker. Write for Catalogue.
fdsg
DRILL
Over
Five Hundred
in use on the
Rand.
Successful
Trial in
Australia.
fsd
Rock Drills,
Hammer
Drills,
Coal
Cutters.
BEFORE BUYING OTHER HAVE A FREE TRIAL.
International Channelling Machines, Sheffield.
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA:
DIERCKS & CO.,
459 Collins Street, Melbourne,
And at BYDNEY.
NOYES BROS.
(Sydney) Limited,
109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
45 Adelaide Street, BRISBANE.
(Melbourne) Propy., Ltd.
153-7 William Street, MELBOURNE.
Commercial Bank Chambers, DFDTU
St. Qeorge’s Terrace, rUK 111,
7 Pirie Street,
"KING-LOC”
STEEL DROPPERS.
No Ties, Wedges, or Staples. Won’t Burn.
isren
FIRST* FOREMOST
MACHINE
With dll the Latest"
ď
Sole Agents
Dan gar GedyeeXpSydney
i
gfds
fgsd
THE KEYSTONE
Traction and Portable.
NUMEROUS TESTIMONIALS.
SEND FOR PARTICULARS TO THE SOLE AGENTS—
g
C (
-
Friction or Cog Hoist.
Nos. 4 and 5, with All Equipment, in
Stock for Immediate Delivery.
■Ol7 3301HH1A9 'N
263 George Street, Sydney
525 Collins Street, Melbourne
sfdg
