

WHISKY
DEWAR’S
The EMBODIMENT OF PERFECTION
X£. 6. WATKINS CO.,
107 Kent street, Sydney,
Mining- and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
Stow, &• k-
Mann’s Steam
Carts
Do heavy carting 50 per cent,
cheaper than horses.
535 Kent Street, Sydney,
486 Collins Street, Melbourne.
B.A. Agent: C. C. DELAND, Victoria Square, Adelaide.
, aWK
fiadleys Orient jjotsL
p
lONEED
LEATHER BELTING
Gcarantbkd.
J. C. Lucfowici & Son, Ld.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
Ĥ
r Take it back,
. I must have—
HUTTON* S
Pine Apple Brand I
HAMS ©
BACON.
CHUBB’S UIAGONAL BOLTS
FIT PERFECTLY.
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets is
recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the diges-
tive organs.
'
HANSENS
L
U
Ħ
INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially-prepared Tablets acts most
beneficially when taken daily after meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
Vi
279 George Street Sydney.
Aju ej\»
Money advanced upon all Securities at Reasonable
Rates of Interest.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
THIS COMPANY WAS FORMED TO SUPPRESS USURY.
And at MELBOURNE, BRISBANE and NEWCASTLE.
H
Ĥ
Ħ
H
COCOA
Royal
Dutch
SUPERIOR
IN
EVERY WAY.
P & B
■
To maKe the Home cosy and comfortable
at all times use P. (EX B. Building' Paper
for lining the walls, floors and ceilings.
A durable, sanitary, draught-proof lining
that will prove to be a boon.
THE PARAFFINE PAINT COMPANY, CHALETS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
D. S. Evans, Australasian Manager.
KUPPER LAGER
Call
For
THORNE’S
OHM
BLACK
SQUARE
BOTTLE.
H ELI DON SPA WATER
; , ;"• . - • ■ • / - •' ,7 * ■' ■ ' ■ '
Piease choose your “ SPA ” carefully .
You may be penalised otherwise .
DEWHURST 8 HALLORAN, Ltd.,
Agents.
The Bulletin
V01.32.—N0. 1649.]
[Thursday, September 21, 1911.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


CENTENARY EDITION OF CHARLES DICKENS
Each Volume Contains the Dickens Centenary Stan p
Printed in large, clear type, with reproductions of the Original Illustrations Bv Georo-e <v,n
shank, Phiz, Marcus Stone, Maclise, George Oattermole, Sir Edward Landseer, John Leach Sir John
Tenniel, Clarkson Stanfield, Richard Doyle, Frank Stone, F. Walker, G. J. Pinwell Sir Luke Kilries
Complete in 36 volumes, or separately in one, or two vols. 3/6 per vol. ; posted 3/10 ner v«l
Boohs Complete in One Volume: Oliver Twist, American Notes, A Child’s Historv of
Christmas Books, Hard Times, Tale of Two Cities, Great Expectations, The Uncommercial Traveller'
Edwin Drood, Reprinted Papers. * Havener,
Books Complete in Two Volumes: Sketches by Boz, Pickwick Papers, Nicholas Nicklebv The Old
Curiosity Shop, Barnaby Rudge, Martin Chuzzlewit, Dombev and Son, David ' Copnerfleld Bleak' House
Little Dorrit, Our Mutual Friend, Christmas Stories, Miscellaneous Papers. 1 u e ’
Full Particulars of the Illustrations of Each Book are sent with- Ea-'i V„lum» Supplied or on Application
ROBERTSON’S, Booksellers -238 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
HUDSON’S
“ EUMENTHOL JUJUBES.”
The Great Antiseptic and Prophylactic,
contains no cocaine or other poisonous
drug.
For COUGHS, COLDS, SORE THROATS,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA, and the
PREVENTION OF CONSUMPTION.
The Lancet Laboratory report is conclusive evidence
of the vaiue of “ Eumenthol Jujubes as an Antiseptic.”
The Lancet says :—t“ Proved to be as effective
bactericidally as is creofsote.”
UJ
A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voioe.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
The Bronchial
Tubes of a dis-
sected Lung.
A Lobe of one
Sold by all Chemists, post free on receipt of 1/6 stamps.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL COMPANY, LTD., 19 York Street, SYDNEY. Agencies in all
the Australian States, New Zealand, and ar, 320 Recent Street, London. *
The RED PAGE
Well Lyons
Since the time of Dickens the poorest
classes of London have provided a good deal
of material for the novelists. Either as
comic background or as pathetic objects
who give the star characters a chance to dis-
play their noble natures, they are, nine
times out of ten, as much alike as the old
stage Irishmen. Richard Whiteing put
some genuine specimens into No. 5, John
Street. Gissing knew the poor of the strata
just above the lowest. He was stricken
with the pathos of their grey lives, and the
tragedy of their thwarted efforts to climb
out of “the nether world”; but missed the
humor which Wells found in his Lewisham,
Kipps, Mr. Polly and others.
Neil Lyons is one of the very few writers
who have treated the poor with artistic re-
spect. The people of his books have been
transferred, all alive, from the lowest dregs.
The frequenters of Arthur’s coffee stall and
the patients of Dr. Brink disport themselves
in their natural grime and depravity; their
pride, and sometimes their nobility; their
cunning, and, above all, their humor. Lyons
does not laugh at his derelicts nor weep
over them. Those who have tears can shed
them on some of Dr. Brink’s dreadful cases
in Sixpenny Pieces, and there is a tinge of
sadness in the laughter over such a story as
“Love in a Mist,” in Arthur's. But in the
main his people are happy, even when
hungry; and they emphatically resent any
attempt to “do them good.”
One of the many amusing scenes' at
Arthur’s was that in which a sailorman
came in—a sailorman with mumps. A bit
of it is quoted for the sake of the doggerel:
He was a harmless fellow, and drunk
enough to be lovable. And this (so near hs
I can reduce its metre to a typographical
form) is the haunting sea dirge with which
he introduced himself to us. Repeat in a
hoarse guttural voice with a moaning in-
tonation, and strike a table with some hard
instrument at appropriate intervals:-
“So theer e sot
a spettin’ op
the purple blood
like wine. So
theer ’e sot a
spettin’ op the
purple blood
like wine, cos ’ •
Joe Golightly
Joe Golightly
. stabbed ’im in
the spine. When
! Joe Golightly
very rightly
knifed ’im in
the spine, ’e
sadly sot a'
spettin’ op the”
etc.
The love of crude gore, which is characteris-
tic of his kind, was illustrated ip the other
fragments of song with which this sailor-
man favored the company
“For it’s ’ome, dearie, ’ome
An’ its ’ome I’d like to be
With me raw, gapin’ wounds
Bein’ bandaged up be thee.”
“I sor my loved one’s ’ands was red
It looked to me like blood.
’Twas only monkey’s gore, ’e said,
An’ fainted where ’e stud.”
Sixpenny Pieces, episodes in the practice
of a Limehouse doctor, whose consultation
fee was 6d.» and whose income was £l2OO a
a year, is at times painful in its realism,
which suggests so much sordid horror 'be-
yond what is told; but most of the patients
are very comical, and the doctor is a jewel.
Mrs. Gluekstein, who “had four chips, a
comprehensive bust and no visible waist
line,” was one of the callers :
“I want you to eggshammun me, young
man. I gut low spirited.”
“Will you show me your tongue, please?”
said the doctor pleasantly. But said Mrs.
Gluekstein, “rtubbutch!”
“Rubbutch!” she repeated. “Y/at you
vanter see me tongue for? Do I keep me
spirits on me tongue, then? I gut low
spirits, I tell you, tfnd the indigistions. Vot
I vant is a Noirve Tunnuk. Ain’t you got
none ?”
“I can give you a nerve tonic, of course,”
assented the doctor. “But don’t you think
I’d better go through the form of making
sure that you need it?” ....
“You’ll do your best, no doubt, Ducitter,”
she said; “but I dink dem Nelson’s Beans
is vat I relly vant. And Mr. Gluekstein
(God bless ’im; long life to ’im) ’e dinks
id too. But dey cust a lut o’ money, Duck-
ter, dem Nelson’s Noirve Beans. A shillin’
a bux I dink it is dey cust. And Mr. Gluck-
stein (may ’e walk in blessedness) he is a
wise man.
“ ‘Shall ve slay the ox,’ ’e seth, ‘ven der
sheep custs not so dear?’ He dinks the same
as me det it is good medsun, the Nelson’s
Noirve Beaus; ’is own mudder (may she live
to be ninety) vas cured from going blind
by dem.
“But ve seth to vun annudder. ve seth ‘a
shillin’ is dear for a medsun.’ So Mr.
Gluekstein (may the Lord be friends vid
’im) ’e consulted vid me, saying—
“ ‘Never mind about dem Noirve Beans foi
de dime bein’,’ ’e seth. ‘You ain’d so bad
enough in der meandime,’ he seth. Ye’ll try
der duckter foirst,’ he seth.
Lyons lived for some time in the country
and became acquainted with a new lot oi
characters who have been made into a de-
lightful Cottage Pie. Mr. Tracey alone is
worth knowing. He was a gardener, so he
said ; a believer in the “antikew,” who hac
no time for modern fakements. When asked
what he had done with the butter beans, be
replied
- “I throwed the blarsted things away.
What be the good of puttin’ in sich ugly-
mannered, noo-fangled truck as that be?
What’s the matter with a scarlet runner?
Can you beat a scarlet runner? Did ever
your father eat a butter-bean, or whatever
’tis you call the funny thing? No, nor mine
neither. Scarlet runners was good enough for
them. A proper scarlet runner, properly
growed, properly cooked, that .will beat all
your noo-fangled, ugly-mannered American
truck. Major-General Tinker, ’e would ’a
died afore ’e’d eat a butter-bean.”
“Tell me this, Mr. Tracey,” I said.
“Have you ever seen a butter-bean in all
your life? Don’t mind owning up, you
know. They are very little known in Eng-
land.”
“Pardon me, sir,” responded Mr. Tracey,
but tell me this: Can you beat a scarlet
runner?”
Cottage Pie, which is as clean and as
healthy as the one your mother made, was
censored by the British Libraries. Their
action could not affect Lyons, but it helped
the sales of his books. Its style is admir-
able, though the humor seems a trifle forced
compared with the London sketches, and in
his latest series —The Chronicles of Clara,
now running in T.P.’s Magazine— Lyons
has wisely returned to the slums.
A. NEIL LYONS.
[This is only a
memory slc etch
Of Neil Lyons,
and my con-
science refuses to
admit that it is
entirely success-
ful. 1 make this
confession lest
one of the plea-
ds a ntest fellows
i n England b e
unduly malign-
ed. I remember
him as being
rather short, ra-
ther stout, with
a round, youth-
ful face and a
deeply - interest-
ed bye. His jocu-
lar habit of in-
troducing into
his stories pun-
gently personal
remarks about
his own appear-
ance is not. jus-
tified b y facts.
But this modesty
is merely one of
the many becom-
ing sides of his
personal ity.
—Norm an Linu-
SAt.]
The biography of his friend Robert Blatch-
ford (published in handsome form by the
Clarion Press at 35.) is also something like
a history of The Clarion, with a sketch of
that rollicking contributor, “The Bounder.”
As a member of The Clarion staff, Lyons
had no easy task in writing an account of
his editor, whom he admires greatly, while
disagreeing with him on many questions.
Blatchford has been a force of some magni-
tude, a William Cobbett on a small scale,
and his writings were meant for their day.
If they sink in the flood there is a good
chance of Robert Blatchford’s name being
carried a good way further on by the book
of Neil Lyons.
Lyons was born at Kimberley, South
Africa, 31 years ago. He has made his mark
with sketches of mingled humor, pathos and
satire, unlike anything else in English, and
will probably try the novel or drama. What-
ever he prints will be worth your reading,
for he is a fine artist and a born humorist.
Artists in Reply
To Criticisms of the R.A. Exhibition.
J. S. Watkins .says that Australian art
cannot be Australian, and the critics are too
literary :
The criticism of the Art Society’s Show,
in the “Red Page,” was written with so evi-
dent an intention to be honest, and does say
a good word of general advice to the artists
that it is a pity to cavil at what is clearly
a step in the right direction. May I, how-
ever, be permitted to speak a piece about
the genus “Art Critic” in Australia?
In the matter of the art of painting, it is
very difficult to make any appeal to the art
critic. At the back of his mind he has some
vague literary idea of art—he has a feeling
that he raises the goddess on a higher pedes-
tal if he gives a literary reason for her exist-
ence, As though somewhat ashamed of this
attitude, he tells us he does not regard sub-
ject as of any importance, and in the next
breath he asks for the "meaning” of a pic-
ture. “Why not,” he says, “paint a picture
which means something ?” “Why does not
the Australian artist paint Australian sub-
jects?” “Where is the feeling of the Aus-
tralian bush?” “Where is there any Aus-
tralian art?”
There is no Australian subject! There is
no Australian art! Art is art, and belongs
to the world ; the accident of subject is of
no consequence. A portrait, a landscape, a
swagman, a bit of George-street, is no more
Australian than is a picture of Mars or a
portrait of the man in the moon - f and the
only peculiarity about an Australian picture
is that it is painted by an Australian. If
there is anything distinctive in Australian
work it will show itself in a painting of the
North Pole, a bunch of carrots, or the
“Blacksoil Plains.” I may instance a pic-
ture in our gallery, which is none the less
French although the artist has a German
name, and/ the subject is American—“Sui-
les toits.” This cry for what is called Aus-
tralian subjects is purely the cry of the
writer, and the work itself is entirely the
province of the writer. It can be done
better by him, and it should be really the
only way to appeal to the literary sense.
The art of the artist, as distinguished from
the illustrator, should be purely decorative,
and, if his picture fulfils all the demands
which the highest class of decoration calls
for, there is no need to find an excuse for it,
there is no need for a title, and there is no
need to classify it in any particular school,
for it will refuse to be classified. The
framed picture is the particular property of
the art critic. This is the only kind of
decoration he understands, because it is sup-
posed to represent something tangible—-
something he has seen. “A Portrait of Mr.
.Tones”—the critic can tell if it is like him;
he knows if there are more creases in his
coat than there should be; he can tell you
if you have left out a button or a button-
hole. He can tell you that your sunset is
wrong, and your sunrise “shows promise,”
that your nocturne is a copy of Whistler,
that Whistler is a copy of Velasquez, and
that Velasquez is a copy of Lambert. The
only drawback to art is that he cannot tell
a good picture from a bad one.
Norman Carter thinks that the critics
want educating :
Referring to the way in which current
It.A. Society’s exhibition has been treated
in the daily press, I wish to say that we are
not afraid of “ criticism ,” but what we do
feel is the total absence of “ true criticism."
To my mind, almost all the "notices,” for
they are nothing more, revealed a deplorable
lack of knowledge of the subject in question,
and, what is worse, many of the so-called
“critics” sought to hide their ignorance and
divert attention from it, by resorting to what
they suppose is humor. It would be inter-
esting to know how many of those who are
let loose in an exhibition to write a press
notice ever think of pictures in the interval
between the_ shows, or if ever they seek to
improve their knowledge by even an occa-
sional voluntary visit to the private studios,
or by studying the writings of those who
understand what qualities a picture should
possess. Surely, if it takes years of study
to reach even the standard which has been
attained by the artists, it must demand an
equal effort on the part of those who set up
to criticise the pictures.
A fair critic is a helpful link between the
painter and the public, but when the critic-
tries to teach a knowledge of the craft we
prefer the help of an expert who lias been
through the mill. To anyone who is striv-
ing sincerely to improve himself, the flatter-
ing notice, without knowledge, is just as
irritating as the writing of a humorist who
looks upon “doing the picture show” as a
pleasant change from council meetings and
the turnip market.
I will say that several writers about the
present exhibition have occasionally stum-
bled on the truth, and I, for one, have
made a mental note of their comments.
This is intended, not as a growl against
what has been said about individual can-
vases, but as a protest against the attitude
of the press towards artistic matters in gen-
eral, and the Art Society’s exhibition in
particular.
[Artists, and critics have quarrelled since
the Neolithic age, and will be at it
when the last picture is painted. It is not
criticism that the painter wants; what he
hungers for is praise, lots of praise; butter
by the keg; even margarine; axle-grease
rather than nothing. He has suffered un-
justly when his methods have been new and
his paintings in advance of their time: and
the fiercest criticism has, come from technical
experts. Manet. Whistler, and manv another
have survived the bombardment. The aver-
age newspaper critic is no more than the
voice of his time; He represents the general
public who are invited to look at and buy
the alleged Art. And the vulgar public has
a notion that a photograph is better than
“A Portrait of Mr. Jones” which fails to
resemble Mr. Jones except in the number of
creases and buttonholes of his coat.
Mr. Watkins rightly says that “Sur les
toits” is French, although the subject is
American. In the same way Conrad Mar-
ten’s paintings of Australia are English.
But Streeton’s “Fires On.” to take one ex-
ample in the Sydney Gallery, is unmistak-
ably Australian. More distinctive landscape
art of that kind is what this Page hopes to
see.]
A New Australian Novelist
.. / le Muck Rake, by Norman McKeowi
(Constable), is a melodramatic story o:
mining life at Kalgoorlie, W.A., with a good
plot and some novel features. The sensa
tional episodes are not too extravagant, and
tue characters—some of them need a little
more “filling”—are reasonably true to type
.he idea is that a Syndicate of men, work
ing in various mines, are stealing gold
with which salted a “duffer” mine whost
shares are run up for the benefit of the
members. By accident, the existence of the
Syndicate becomes known to a venal police
inspector and a villainous share manipu-
lator. The latter wishes to become a mem-
ber of the gang, and his bogus initiation
makes a good scene. In the meantime the
"hero” has visited a station -in another State,
where Isobel appears and the inevitable
happens. This conversation explains the
leading character and the book’s title: —
‘‘Dr- you remember that chap you were
telling me about —the one that went rooting
among the mullock-heaps while another fel-
low stood over him with a golden crown’”
Isobel nodded. “The Man with the Muck
Bake.
“That's the one. I am the man with
tue muck rake. I have spent my life
picking up chips and tin cans aiid old
Hoop-iron. I never knew any better. I
. °tliers around me scrambling and
lighting tor the chips and hoop-iron, and
1 scrambled and fought likewise. There
were no rules—it was simply a question of
getting what you could ; the how was of no
consequence. It is only since I have been
here and met you—that I’ve caught sight of
the golden crown, and”——
“Yes, yes,” she said, carried out of herself.
1 ve come to realise what a lot of time
1 ve wasted, and to know tfiat some of the
dirt has stuck.”
“Nothing that won’t wash off,” she said
gently.
Into the old framework McKeown has put
something that is new. His sense ’of dram-
atic values is sound, the events are dove-
tailed neatly, and the end is that which the
Circulating Libraries desire. If he can put
more stuffing into his characters, with as
good a plot, his next book should be some-
thing out of the way.
—— :
A new edition of Sydney Partrige’s
Rocky Section has been published by The
JN.S.VV. Bookstall Co. at Is. A young bush-
man who hates women has to live in a lonely
Put with a handsome girl, who begins bv
hating him the situation is interesting, anil
there is only one way out. Sydney Partrige
caines them through skilfully.
\f nd the bowser is an alluring
Jhl w Yen us came to Sydney what would
the Wowser dot Bernard Ingleby has
worked it out in a play of two acts which
is dedicated to “The Society for the Promo-
tion ot I agan Ivnowdedge.” It is good anti-
Wowser; but rather bad pro-Venus The
Syfiney, U for 2. tamed from ox 1634 G.P.0.,
Harvard University is the first to confer
The or e P l l ; oflL :iency in book-collecting.
muhterlinftnA DDale f le Hearing, has accu-
mulated 10,000 volumes—all on fishing! The
vmOf?' may be useful for reference; but it
to fhe , m f° re apprc) P ria te to give a degree
David C i oi Sood book on fish....
H.n m - ? f fe l dne y» m qualifying for
tl.c unofficial Order of Merit by making his
able ° Ur dsbes , aad fisheries a°vail-
/H seneral reader. His handbook
of ti l b'ilh UeS ° f Australia, A Brief Review
of the t ishcri.es of N.S. IP., and a number of
scienfim fl S ai ? val V able to fisherman and
ZSraL iw « S 0 , edlts Th , c Muarium in
ion™*/f f brooks and Co.), a sixpenny
journal foi those who like silent pets.
iJIV-B.”: “Bed Page” note (B. 17/8/T1)
regarding the new edition of Winwood
aim rt V r %f n of Man, and the lament-
fJviai iaC l °1 tlfis marvellous book
au! 1 o 0 1; ■ °’ OOU coples > fails to claim for
llie Bulletin, as it rightfully may, a hand in
the nmkmg ot the comparatively big Aus-
tralian sales. The Bulletin commended it
to readers over 25 years ago, when (and
fi-tmiln 106 ’ that mat ter) the book was
friendless so far as press notice is con-
«un!f d ' ? Ut fi 1 ® pric e at that time (nine
f ‘ r ia f s , K pa ! d for my copy) was a long
way outside the limit of the average book-
buyer. I rank Anstey, the Brunswick Labor
member, has largely helped the Melbourne
circulation by his occasional lecture on The
Martyrdom of Man.
* * *
i Australia is Britain’s best customer in the
book line, according to the figures quoted
recently in Ihe Publishers ’ Circular.. The
value or the exports in one year to the five
largest buyers is given as under: —
Australia . . . .£461,303
U.b.A .. .. 440,355
Canada .. .. 168,626
Maoriland .. 132,702
Germany . . . . 103,090
~4, fiai'Sfitful Piquant little lover is the
Molly Make-Believe of Eleanor H. Abbott.
Her effort to raise a crust by starting a
benal-Letter Co. which supplied real letters
from imaginary persons for invalids and
lonely people is carried out with agreeable
thoroughness. The book is a delicious trifle,
and it costs Is. net. You should give it to
your best girl or your wife so that she may
know how to write when you’re away.


Jk
XL
Anthony Horderns’ for Ansonia Accuracy.
The Windsor Ansonia, Black
Walnut, Eight-Day Clock,
Silvered Cupids, Plate-Glass
Mirrors, Half-hour Strike,
Cathedral Gong. Height,
Dial. sin. 22/6.
Ansonia Clocks set a standard of Accuracy that place them in
the front rank of popular timekeepers. The assortment of
Marble, Wood, Bronze, Enamelled Iron and Porcelain Clocks
we offer cannot be equalled south of the line.
TOP QUALITY
at BOTTOM
PRICE is the
GOLDEN RULE
at the
NEW PALACE
EMPORIUM.
Umii
m
The Bizet Bight-Day Marble Clock; Half-hour Strike; Cathedral Gong;
Height, 9in.; Width, lSjin. ; Dial sin. Similar to Illustration. 46/6.
CONSULT OUR
ILLUSTRATED
PRICE LIST
for ANYTHING
YOU WANT.
TERMS:
SPOT CASH.
The Triumph Ansonia, Black Walnut,
Plate Glass Mirrors, Silver Cupids,
Eight-Day, Half-hour Strike. Cathe-
dral Gong. Height, 24Mn.; Dial 6in.
27/-.
The Parisian Ansonia,
Walnut Eight-Day
Half-hour Cathedral
Strike. Height, 23in.;
6in. 18/-.
Black
Clock;
Gong
Dial,
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
REIGN SUPREME.
The Berlin Ansonia, Enamelled
Iron, Eight-Day, Half-hour
Strike, Cathedral Gong. Height,
94in.; Width, llMn.; Dial, sin.
24/-.
The Dover Ansonia Enamelled
Iron Eigrht-Day Clock. Half-
hour Strike; Cathedral Gong;
Height, lOiin.; Width, 9}in.; Dial,
2O/-.
POSTAGE MUST BE ADDED TO
THE PRICES QUOTED ON
THIS PAGE.
BUY EVERYTHING
AT ANTHONY HORDERNS’
NEW PALACE EMPORIUM.
The Arditi Ansonia, Bight-Day
Marble Clock, Half-hour Strike,
Cathedral Gong. Height, 9Jin.;
Width, 11 Jin.; Dial, sin. 38/-
%JL/
s,
II
The Monarch Ansonia, Black
Walnut, Bight-Day,; Half-hour
Strike, Cathedral Gong. Height,
24Jin.; Dial, 6in. 37/-.
The King: Ansonia, Black
Walnut Eight-Day Clock,
Half-hour Strike. Cathedral
Gong. Height, 24in.; Dial,
6in. With Alarm, 20/-;
without Alarm, 18/6.
PATTERNS AND PRICE EISTS
POSTED FREE
ON APPLICATION.
The Bright Ansonia, Fancy Gilt
Clock, One-Day Time. Height,
6iin.; Porcelain Dial, 2in. 10/-.
Octagon Drop. Rosewood, Gilt
Eight-Dav; Halfihour Strike
Height, 21in.; Dial, lOin. 21/-.
TOP QUALITY
AT
BOTTOM PRICE.
The Brook Ansonia, Fancy
Gilt Clock. One-Dav Time.
Height, sfin.; 2in. Porcelain*
Dial. 10/-.
The Kensico Ansonia, Black Walnut, 1 '
Eight-Day Clock, Half-hour Strike:
Height, 22in.: Dial, 6in.; Cathedral
Gong. 12/6.
£
The Venice Ansonia, Eight-Day Iron Clock,
Half-hour Strike. Cathedral Gong. Height,
10|in.; Width 16£in.: Dial, sjin. Similar to
Illustration. 35/-.
The Victory Bronze Ansonia Clock,
Day; Cathedral Gonsj; Half-hour Strike
siin. 62/6.
Bisjht-
; Dial,
The Capri Ansonia, Enamelled Iron Eight-Day
Clock: Half-hour Strike. Cathedral Gong.
Height, 12iin.; Width, 15in.; Dial, sin. 38/6.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W


TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
STEVENS
MAYNARD JR. RIFLE NO. 15.
Measures 33 inches over all. Weighs pounds. ‘‘Take Down” Feature.
Chambered for .22 Long Rifle —will also shoot C. B. caps and
.22 Short R. F. and .22 Long R. F. cartridges.
Ask your Dealer.
Insist on
STEVENS.
Write for Catalogue to
ARTHUR H. HILL, Australian Represent-
ative for Stevens Arms and Tool Co.,
Box 86, G.P.0., Adelaide, S. Australia.
Send for latest Fire-
arm, Telescope and
Stevens-Pope Cata-
logues. [9
m
UNSHRINKABLE
IS w vsfW unonmnixHL
®g|> UNDERWEAR
JAY
FI JV
The extreme comfort of JAY Underwear is ensuring for
it an ever-increasing sale in all parts of the world. It is
durable, economical, and guaranteed against shrinking.
Made of the Finest Australian Wool
i
All the wearing parts are strengthened by patented
improvements, and there are no irritating seams. Made
in all weights and sizes for men, women and children.
SOLD BY ALL HOSIERS AND OUTFITTERS.
Wholesale only: I. &R- MORLEY and GEO. BRETTLt * t*>., London, England.
N.B.—The genuine JAY UNDERWEAR bears the above Trade Mark.
SANACINE prevents the wasting and tearing of the Tissues that occurs in violent colds, clears
away the congested phlegm, and speedily allays irritation and inflammation of the respiratory
organs, and strengthens the linings of the throat and nose. Coughs, Colds, Influenza,
Lung Weakness, Head and Chest Colds, Throat Weakness and more virulent forms of colds
immediately yield to the vigorous curative action of Sanacine. A few doses taken in tire early
stages diminish the severity of an attack, and a rapid cure is assured.
H
Sanacine benefits
Russian Royal Family
A Court Official writes : “ Sanacine was introduced
to the Russian Imperial Family, and they have found
great benefit from using it.”
Ĥ
SANACINE
NATURE’S LUNG HEALER
An Invaluable Remedy for
COUGHS
COLDS
ASTHMA
BRONCHITIS
CATARRH
INFLUENZA
CONGESTION
HOARSENESS
HUSKINESS
SORE THROAT
WHOOPINQ COUGH
CHEST WEAKNESS
and all Disorders of the Lungs, Chest, and Throat.
Price* in Gt. Britain: Liquid and Tablets 1/1§ and 2/9. Sold by all Chemists, Stores, &c., in Australia.
Proprietors : -ASHTON & PARSONS. LIMITED, LONDON. E.C., ENGLAND.
Mil'
1
t 4 UB
W
THE
SUNVI P‘
Forest Devil.
This One Caps Them All!
“I have owned one of the ‘ Bunyip ’ Forest Devils
since 1909, and have used it in all classes of green stumps
and trees, large and small, and it has given every satis-
faction. I pulled two large trees in the township of
Marong, and plenty of the watchers stated that the
machine would not shift them. They were both pulled in
a very short time and with little trouble. I have pulled
large trees, one being x6ft. Bin. round the girth. The
machine, while in my use, never cost me one penny, and
is still in perfect order. I have used lots of other
machines, but this one caps them all."
(Signed) E. J. OSBORN, Marong, via Bendigo.
JOHN COOPER & SONS,
287-9 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne
When writing, please mention this paper. (Op. St. Francis’ Church).
Will Anprade « BOOKS.
Dr. Thomas Faulkner’s
GREAT
BOOK OF NATURE
and ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE,
1908 Edition.
Vastly Improved.
The ONLY GENUINE ~m
UNABRIDGED EDITION.
3/6, Post Free 4 -
Write for Descriptive
Circular of Contents,
post free anywhere.
Art of Boxing and Self-Defence, 1/2 ; Gold Hunter’s Adventures in Aus-
tralia, 1/9 ; Complete Book of Love Letters, 1/; How to Woo and Win, 1/1;
Astrology Made Easy, 1/1; Money-Making Secrets, 1/1 ; Minstrel Show, 1/1;
Eight Popular Farces, 1/1; Sixteen Amusing Farces, 1/1; Thirteen One-Act
Farces, 1/1; Twenty Humorous Dialogues, 1/1; Home Amusements, 1/1 ;
“ How Old Mose Counted the Eggs ” and 116 Other Humorous Recitations,
1/1 ; Famous Dramatic Recitations, 1/1 ; “ How Sockery Set a Heti ” and
other Comic Recitations, 1/1; Famous Dialect Recitations, 1/1; 1401 Conun-
drums and Riddles, 1/1; Art of Ventriloquism, 1/1 ; Hypnotism, Mesmerism
and Cl irvo.vance, 1/1 ; Popular Horse.and Cattle Doctor, 1/1 ; How to Teach
Animal Tricks, 1/1; What Young People Should Know, Confidential Talks,
1/1; Dr. Faulkner’s Original Book of Nature, the only genuine and complete
edition, 3/6, posted 3/9 ; New Tricks with Cards, 1/ ; House Painting, Paper-
hanging, Whitewashing, etc., 1/2; 3000 Priceless Secrets, 1/8; Irish Jokes
and Witty Sayings, 9d.; Complete Letter Writer for Ladies and Gentlemen,
1'; Dancing Without an Instructor, 1/; Lover’s Guide to Courtship and
Marriage, 1/; Bernard Macfadden’s Physical Training,. 2/9; Macfadden’s
Building of Vital Power, 5/4 ; Macfadden’s Superb Virility of Manhood, 5/4;
Macfadden’s Sweethearts for Lives, 5/4 ; Australian Billiard Champion Gray’s
pf -AND ANY BOOK
YOU WANT.
Mention The Bulletin.
Book on Billiards, 1/5 ; Wrestling Instructor,
with 60 Photographic Illustrations, 1/9; Bag
Punching, lOd. ; All Steele Rudd’s Aus-
tralian Books, 1/1; Road Map of Victoria,
1/1.
Above prices include postage to any address. Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne.
Miss
Amy
Willard,
who gives this
CLEMENTS
TONIC
testimony,
Ħ
is well known to Sydney and Melbourne audiences as one of the
leads of the Willoughby Comedy Co. (Meynell & Gunn’s attrac-
tions). She writes to ailing women thus • • • •
“ CLEiIENTS TONIC LTD.
“ On account of Clements Tonic being used largely by the theatrical
as well as other professions, and through its being highly recommended
to me by one of the leading actors upon the Australian stage, I secuied
and used it for several weeks. I was more than gratified, as the result
was a general improvement in soundness of nerve, natural and keen
appetite, sweet refreshing sleep, which was all the more welcome because,
often through continuous study, I suffered from insomnia and bioken rest.
“To women, especially those weak-ner\ed, run-down in health,
anaemic, with poor appetite and gene al decline of physical strength, I
consider Clements Tonic a valuable medicine, for it gives appetite and
natural sleep, and is creative of sound and permanent health.
“(Signed) AMY WILLARD.”
The testimony above i 8 simply a women in LVfsTck o°r NeTvous
£i“ln9rn».rV. k .nE.. i P«^
Constipation things of the past. This is ,£a?r-otten penalties of neglect of natural needs of the body, the
melancholy, the: suffering that" sound, and the blood pure by the use of
this^nquestioiiabh^splend^d'methcine! 16 The medicine that gives health, gives life-and that medicine,s
Clements Tonic. Get it, and get well. Every household should have it.
All Chemists and Stores sell it in the Commonwealth.


Arc
You
Thin?
Pate?
mi
m
m
m
mm
All run dt'vn, easily tired, nerv-
ous? And do not know what
to take? Then go direct to
your doctor. Ask his opinion
of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. It con-
tains no alcohol, no stimulation,
and is a blood purifier, a nerve
tonic, a strong alterative, an aid
to digestion. Ask your doctor
about Ayer’s non-alcoholic Sar-
saparilla as a strong tonic for
the weak.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
FOR
RHEUMATISM
H
Packets, 3d., 6d. and Is
[2a
m
NTS
PAT
Collison&Co.
PATENTS and TRADE MARKS
obtained in all countries.
483 Collins St., MELBOURNE.
Eagle Chambers, ADELAIDE
Write us for Inventors’ Guide.
Established 1877
Ask your Friends
why they use Cerebos
Salt ; you will find
they use it because of
its purity, or its good-
ness, or its daintiness
—or for all three
qualities,
Cerebos
Salt.
Agents—Harrison & Attwood, Sydney.
YOUR EYES!
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
EYE
OINTMENT.
INSTANT
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE IT I
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-. Or by post from
Proprietors, 443 Bourke St., Melbourne.
MILNERS’ SAFES
have the Largest Sale in the World.
SYDNEY : John Keep & Sons, Ltd., Clarence St.
MELBOURNE : Briscoe & Co., Ltd., Lit. Collins St.
BRISBANE : Webster & Co., Ltd., Mary St.
PERTH : McLean Bros. & Rigg.
Aus. Rep.—T. Nicholls, c/o Sydney Agents.
Ĥ
Grandmother Used
BONNINGTONS !
For over 45 years Bennington’s Irish Moss
has been the standard cough remedy. Grand-
mother used it, your mother used it, and
you probably use it yourself and give it to
your children.
BONNINCTON’S IRISH MOSS.
There is no medicine like it for breaking up coughs and colds, healing inflam-
mation in the bronchial tubes and preventing serious lung troubles.
REFUSE SUBSTITUTES —get what you ask for, and ask for
Bonnington’s Irish Moss—there is no remedy “just as good.” [3
Richardson Cushion Frame, Anti-Jar Ball
Bearing Roller Skates.
Used exclusively in all of the largest and most successful rinks ip America,
and by all the Champions of the World, fast and fancy. RICHARDSON
SKATES have held all World’s Records for 24 years. Write for Catalogue.
Tells how to open and operate Roller Rinks.
Richardson Ball-Bearing Skate Co., 311 Michigan Street, Chicago, U.S.A.
CHICAGO
RICHARDSON
(1404.)
“Salt-Cellars” and No Bust
do great harm to a woman’s appearance. You can increase
your vitality, build up your strength, develop your bust to
normal, and fill out the unsightly “salt-cellars.
A thin woman is not necessarily plain; in fact, many thin
women are admittedly pretty, but the admission is always
qualified with—“but, poor thing, she is so terribly thin.
No woman need stay thin and undeveloped. Dr Falliere’s
Flesh-Food is a harmless, perfect flesh builder. It increases
the vitality and improves the general health, home cases re-
port a gain in weight of over five pounds a week.
We publish an interesting book on the subject of attenua-
tion and development, and will send same and a Free Sample
Treatment to you free of charge upon receipt of a 2d. stamp
All communications private and confidential. Write or call
for full particulars.
FLESH-FOOD CO., 1103 Ash Street, Sydney (rear Equitable Life Building)
FAELIERE
£2O FREE
EVERY WEEK!'
Try to Solve
this Puzzle.
EVERY WEEK we give away Cash Order Prizes that
average over £lOOO a year —or its equivalent in high-class
jewellery—to persons who are willing to use the l r brains
and talents If you can find the boss in this picture,
mark it and send' it to 11s. If correct we will send you a
Cash Order for your portion of this week s allotment, and
fiffl particulars of our conditions. Under them you can
win many articles of jewellery— Gold Watches and
Chains. Rings, Bangles, Guns, Cuff-Links, etc., etc.
This offer is made to advertise our famous Electine
Pills, four kinds, for which successful contestants may
become our agents. Eight packets sent with Cash Order.
No successful contestant ever received less than a Pour
Shilling Order. This offer open for limited time only.
EEECTINE MEDICINE CO., 203 EEECTINE BUIEDING, SYDNEY.
This farm hand is diligently ivork-
ing because his Employer is near,
though hidden. Find the Employer.
Ħ
FOR ALL AGES,
from the nursery upwards,
HORLICK’S MALTED MILK
is an ideal food-beverage, easily digested,
nourishing, invigorating. It is indis-
pensable to invalids and the aged, and
provides a full diet in sickness.
H
Especially valuable
in Hot Climates.
Of all Chemists & Stores.
Samples & Pamphlets:
82, Pitt Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Horlick’s Malted Mi.k
Co., Siough, Bucks,Eng.
Ĥ
SMOKERS
CAN BE CURED!
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a harmless veg-
etable remedy that will make the user
of tobacco in any form abandon the
habit for good. It not only destroys the crav-
ing, the desire, the appetite for tobacco, but
restores to health the entire nervous system, and
aids Nature in entirely eliminating the Nicotine
Poison from the system.
free trial.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you a trial
package of this grand remedy, and also our free
booklet. Trial package often effects a cure.
Mr. H. Smith, Park Farm, Jericho, Tas., says: " I
was a hard smoker for 30 years, but since taking your
sample ot I obacco specific 1 have never had asmoke."
H. SINCLAIR & CO., Dept. G,
Victoria Arcade, SYDNEY.
Drunkards
Cured. “ Golden Specific ”is perfectly harmless
and can be given secretly. It has often cured a most
violent drunkard in a few days. Send 2d. stamp for
Free Sample and Free Descriptive Booklet.
GOLDEN SPECIFIC CO.,
Dept. 4, 10(H MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
56 tons 7cwt.
The weight of the quarter-
million Wayback Books
sold to date.
BOVRIL
a h.
Tickles tke Palate
CONFIDENTIAL Letters
REMAIN PRIVATE
when the Zanetic
N.S. C. Copying
Book is used.
-NSC / 200
*ATIN7 ZANETIC
Copying
&
$
is
You slip your letter
paper into the
holder, write your letter, and the copy is made as
you write. Letter shows no sign of copying. The
letter is ported and the book locked up. 400 octavo
(Bin. x sin.) letters, or 200 quarto, can be copied in
NSO/100, post free for 3/0; or 800 octavo, or 400
quarto, in NSC/200, post free for 5/-. Sample of the
celebrated Zanetic ink paper which produces this
result, free, if stamped envelope sent to
S. B. ZANETIC, Zanetic Works,
Welford Road, LEICESTER, ENGLAND.
THE LONE HAND offers you the
Hand. It’s the Right Hand, and a
after publication there are none left.
Glad
week
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Love and Wine.
Of Love and Wine the poet sings,
And so indeed do I ;
We are inclined to mix these things
Together heedlessly.
’Tis not that Love, which frets the heart
With jealous thoughts and fear,
Drives me to drink (and, for my part,
My normal drink is beer).
Nor is it that, as some may think
Whom passion cannot move,
’Tis only when I’m full of drink
I’m fool enough to Love.
But, when Love in my bosom burns,
It sets such fancies free,
The magic of its passion turns
All things to Wine for me.
N.S.W.
HAMER.
The Girl.
You may nurse a great ambition till your latest
dream falls swooning,
You may strive to help your fellows till you die;
You may feel unfeigned contrition for your fibbing
and your mooning,
To soothe your conscience as the days go by ;
You may do the things you ought to with precision
staid and humble,
You may dodge the slimy quags and fashion’s
swirl;
But your perfect peace and pleasure (for this life’s
a dreadful jumble),
Will depend, when all is said, upon the Girl.
You may heap up teeming riches till the haughtiest
ladies coax you,
You may win the howling plaudits of the crowd,
You may foil the crawling devils that would circum-
vent and hoax you,
You may be with every blessed gift endowed;
You may prove a very angel to the starving and for-
saken.
You may cheat Perdition where Hell’s breakers
curl,
You may stand ’mid all temptation honest, stalwart
and unshaken ;
But you can’t be happy, if you miss the Girl.
You may live a life so splendid, that, when life for
you is ended, on your coffin shall be blended
all the tears of all the just;
You may pluck the bays of victory from the hot-
test of the battle •,
You may overcome completely all your foes, and walk
discreetly where the virtues bloom most
sweetly, till your dust goes back to dust;
You may win the mute, sad worship of all dumb,
hard-driven cattle;
You may see your hopes bloom grandly to magnifi-
cent fruition, and ’scape all shafts that Satan’s
hand can hurl;
You may win the grace of Heaven, but whatever
your condition, your Star shines in the
bosom of the Girl.
MAORILANP.
FRANK MORTON.
After.
Her hair is all of Autumn golds,
Shot through with ruby fire ;
Her eyes are like the Spring that holds
The spell of young desire;
Her mouth is warm with Summer’s glow
New stolen from the West;
Of Winter she has nought to show,
Unless it be the piled snow
Of her untroubled breast.
And now the dull year lilts for me
No Spring song in the brake;
My listless eyes no longer see
The rose of Summer wake;
No gold and amber Autumns reign,
No diamonds gem the frost.
The world swings in its orb in vain,
Returning not to me again
The love that I have lost.
VICTORIA.
E.D.
The End of the Holiday.
Half-speed! We’re in the river now ; our journey’s
end is near ;
The rain-wet wharves are slipping past. We’re nearly
there, my dear.
The sodden awning weeps to see the cold, grey city
rise;
For we have come from summer seas, gold sands
and turquoise skies;
The old, grey river’s placid face is pitted with the
rain;
It is a day to part with Joy and grip with Care
again!
Our rippling wake that winds along the wise old
river’s coils,
Fades out. This is the city’s slave, and we are in
its toils!
Upstream! Each bend we slowly round imprisons
us, my dear.
Now dimly through the rain you see the masts of
ships from here!
Far out beyond the river mouth they ride the clean,
green sea;
Round us the city’s arms are wound —we are no
longer free ;
The engines’ throbbing, deep and slow, grows slower,
slower still ;
The rudder chains creak softly—’neath the counter
waters rill.
The helm’s hard up ! Another turn between us and
the sea 1
I swear I heard the river laugh and turn a rusty
key !
Dead slow! The deep and solemn gongs have rung
our journey’s knell;
Our vessel, creeping to her berth, lifts to another s
swell,
And with a rustle of disdain the outward-bound
sweeps by—
The black smoke banner blowing free, the signal
disc on high!
Downstream! Ah, when shall we once more escape
from here and go
From endless care and breathless streets to where
the sea winds blow?
What joy to lean upon the rail —to watch the lights
and trace
The long, lamp-bordered course, and meet the fresh
wind face to face!
N.S.W.
E. FRANCIS.


Combination Couch and Bed.
Size when open, 4ft. x 6ft. 7in.
CHANGED INSTANTLY.
CLOSED AS COUCH.
fcvfelifi
/•>•'./ •-
OPEN AS DOUBLE BED.
Commonwealth
Patent 12274.
Cannot get out of order: is
exceptionally strong and durable.
Just the thing for offices,
small rooms, or where an extra
bed is required.
Invaluable for hotels, boarding-
houses, coffee palaces, and similar
establishments.
Can be had fitted with box, to
act as linen press. Three pieces
of furniture in one.
Elegantly upholstered.
CASH PRICES:
In Cretonne, £4 JOs.: in
Tapestry or American Leather,
£5 55.; in Rexine, £6 6s. With
Box, 20s. extra.
Patent Rights held by
MARCUS CLARK & Co. Ltd.
SYDNEY.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original and Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
,
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
-1/I£, 2/9 & 4/6. Made in England
tffilcrcdf*
Checks Fever- J
ishness, and
effectually
cuts short all
attacks of
SPASMS and COLIC.
The Best Medicine for
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, and in
the cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Acts like a?charm in
DIARRHOEA and simple DYSENTERY.
The Goldfields Diamond Drilling Co., Ltd.,
339 Collins Street, MELBOURNE, 24 Bond Street, SYDNEY. Boulder Road, KALCOORLIE, W.A.
Diamond Drilling and Water Boring Contractors.
Sole Manufacturers of The Victoria Percussion Drill. Agents for THE SULLIVAN MACHINERY
CO.’S Diamond, Drills, Air Compressors, Rock and Air Hammer Drills.
Drill Carbons and Spares for Diamond Drills Stocked. Full particulars and prices on application.
WELSBACH
Electric Eig^ht
Metal Filament Lamps.
: "C$ \' - F ar '
% & r.O l. Strength#
For
Quality
-- ;
I
1
I
The life of the lamp is in the strength
of the Filaments. Hence the instant
success of the WELSBACH LAMP.
Write—NOW—for particulars to
Welsbach Light Co. of Australasia Ltd.,
302 Pitt Street, Sydney.
380 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
102-4 Victoria Street, Wellington.
GEO. WILLS & CO., Brisbane and Perth.
DIAMOND ENGAGEMENT
f RINGS! I
I My Prices are the Lowest in Australia.
II I carry a very extensive assortment of pretty designs in Engagement
Rings. 1 import all stones direct from the cutters and mount them
in my own factory, thus saving ail intermediate profits.
18ct. Gold, set
with 2 Diamonds
and 3 Rubies or
Sapphires,
*l/15/-
All Diamonds,
£2/10/-
18ct. Gold, set
with 2 Diamonds
and Rubies or
Sapphires.
£2/10/-
All Diamonds,
£3/15/-
18cti Gold, set
with 5 Diamonds,
£5/15/-
2 Diamonds and 3
Rubies or Sapphires,
£4/10/-
18ct. Gold, set
with 2 Diamonds
and 3 Emeralds,
Rubies or
Sapphires, £7/10/-
All Diamonds,
£lO/10/-
18et. Gold, set
with 12 Double Cut
Diamonds,
£6/10/-
Larger Diamonds,
£B/10/-, £lO/10/-
18ct. Gold, set
with 3 Pure
Double Out
Diamonds. &5H5!'
Larger Diamonds,
£7/10/-
18ct. Gold, set
with 3 Double
Cut Diamonds,
Beautifully matched.
£.21.
18ct. Gold, set
with 2 First Water
Diamonds.
Very Brilliant.
£.lB/10/-
WRITE FOR A COPY OF MY CATALOGUE WITH RING SUE CARD ATTACHED.
JOE DAVIS,
The Money Saving Jeweller,
26 Park Street, Sydney,
One Door from Pitt Street.
ABDULLA
CIGARETTES.
Fastidious smokers welcome the “ABDULLA.”
They tone the system while they soothe and rest the
brain. They are just the Cigarette to enable a man
to get the best out of a smoke, apart . from the
pleasure of smoking.
ASK YOUR TOBACCONIST FOR THEM.
bn
3
ri
• o
I 'O
WHOLESALE AGENTS FOR
AUSTRALIA
Ħ
Save Time—Save Life.
m
Cars for Doctors
THERE are a large number of Doctors to-day enquiring for Motor
Cars specially suited to their wants. We can recommend for
this work two of the cars for which we are agents, namely the
Austin (illustrated above), and the E.N.
Austin
The distinguishing characteristics are power, flexibility and
wonderful acceleration. You can get up a 50-mile speed in
400 yards. All parts easily accessible. The Austin is generally
considered one of the highest grade pocket valve cars made.
F.N.
This combines nearly all the features of high-grade cars at a
low price. The new models' have lengthened springs, and
the chassis is reinforced. All the well-known features of this
car are retained. The change speed arrangement has been
still further simplified.
Both of the above cars are eminently suitable tor the constant hard
wear required by a Doctor.
Call at our Garage and see the new models, or send for catalogue
and all particulars, post free on application.
We are also Sole Agents for the Daimler, Delaunay-Belleville,
Schacht Motor Buggy and Halley Motor Lorry.
DALGETY & COMPANY LTD.,
Motor Carage, 136-138 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vot. 32.—N0. 1649.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 1911.
PIUOK 6d.
THE OVERLOADED HORSE.
The Commonwealth Liberal party at its annual conference in Melbourne agreed to amalgamate with the Peoples I arty.
Mr. Deakin, the president, said that the prospects of Liberalism were more favorable than ever before. -Daily Paper.
DEAKIN: “Now we’re right, Joe. The favorite ain’t got a hope of beating the three of us.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod,
of Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mos-
man, for The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
Ltd., at the Office of the Co., 214 George-
street North, Sydney, N. S. Wales, Aus-
tralia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES: Business, 1384 Central.
Editorial, 257 City.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Per Annum .. . . £ 1 6 0
Half-yearly .. .. .. 0 13 6
Quarterly .. .. .. 0 7 0
By sending direct to Tub Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin
posted regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communica-
tions to he addressed to William Macleod, Manag-
ing Director.
Haw to Address Letters.
Correspondents to Tiie Bulletin would oblige the
paper (and, to an extent, themselves) by taking
some care as to methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, ad-
vertisements, etc.) should in no case be addressed to
the Editor, but to the Manager. To send them to
the Editor is to invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters
to anyone by name. “The Editor, The Bulletin,” is
the proper superscription for “copy.” Delay, and
even loss, is sometimes caused by addressing to per-
sons instead of officials. The person may not be
there; the official always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” col-
umn all contributions submitted, whether in the
form of Political, Social or other Articles, Verse,
Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, SOOO words, are specially accept-
able), Paragraphs, Letters or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS.
when the address is specified and stamps are en-
closed. But no MS. will be returned, or preserved,
unless these conditions are observed. When MS. is
forwarded without stamps for return it will be un-
derstood that the copy is to be destroyed if not ac-
ceptable. Personal applications for return of MS.
cannot receive attention. The Bulletin desires,
further, those sending MS. to distinctly understand
that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
DIItECT reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea,
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any pic-
ture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
The Bulletin is forwarded ,direct to agents on
account of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale
agents) to Victoria, West Australia, Queensland,
Tasmania and New Zealand; and on account of
Messrs. Atkinson and Co. and Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide
■ —at 4/6 per doz. nett.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town; Dawson and Son, Capetown; The Central
News Agency, Durban, Natal; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., 441 Hastings Street;
Jepson Bros., Nanaimo, B.C.
U.S.A. —Golden Gate News Co., 789 Market Street,
San Francisco; C. W. Jewett, Utah, U.S.A.; Childs
News Agency, corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego,
Cal.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port
Said.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Redder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon. — ll. John and Co.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size
6% hi. x 14in., will be forwarded on application.
Larger sizes can be supplied if desired.
Postage Rates.
Single Copies, The Bulletin (Registered as a
Newspaper) :— Throughout the Commonwealth, New
Zealand, Fiji, British New Guinea, Norfolk and Lord
Ilowe Islands, lOoz. id.; United Kingdom, All Sea
Route, 16oz. Id. — otherwise, Boz. Id., and Bioz. to
10oz., 2id; lOoz. to 120 z., Sd; elsewhere, 40z., Id.,
u.id \d. each additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 1911.
HIGH RENTS AND TALL BUILDINGS.
The eviction question—the plain old Irish
eviction question—arose lately in Sydney,
and there being no immediate answer at
hand, the matter was postponed. Postpone-
ment isn’t settlement, but at least it is
breathing time, and breathing time is the
last resource of the incapable.' The elements
of the dispute were simple enough. There
was a narrow, dishevelled street, of the dog’s
hind leg pattern, which was a disgrace to
any high-class civilisation, and the street was
lined with dirty, condemned dwellings. The
Municipal Council had, most commendably,
resolved to pull down the dirty, condemned
dwellings, and make a new street. And the
more or less condemned occupants refused
to get out of the condemned dwellings, on
the ground that they couldn’t get accommo-
dation that was within their means, and
within possible distance of their work, sup-
posing they had any work, which is uncer-
tain. They declined to sit permanently on the
edge of the pavement, and the city by-laws
prevented them boiling the billy in the Do-
main. So, after great excitement among
aldermen, members of Parliament, and other
animals, these condemned tenants were
allowed to remain in their condemned build-
ings, and the improvements were left to the
future. Meanwhile, there is a constant
plaint about High Rents, and about the fact
that rents keep getting constantly higher.
Even the price of a condemned dwelling has
soared up till it is little more than a speck
against the sky. Between the difficulty of
finding, within reasonable distance of Syd-
ney, the kind of house that is wanted, and
the difficulty of paying the sky-high figure
demanded for it when it is found, the toiler
is up against some troubles.
* * * *
The housing question is, more or less, the
woe of every big centre. In a city of (say)
200,000 people the toiler can generally live
so near to the business centre that he can
easily walk to his work. In a city of
700,000 people he is shoved further out —pro-
vided he wants to lead a fairly healthful
existence —because the business centre is so
much larger, and he has to amble back and
forward by tram or train or ’bus, or else
spend an absurd proportion of his time in
pedestrian exercise. In the city of 2,000,000
or 4,000,000 people the trouble is aggravated.
The worker in a city of 700,000 or 4,000,000
people gets no more for what he produces
than the man in a city of 200,000 people,
while the time wasted in the struggle to get
to and fro reduces his earning capacity, and
the money wasted in transit increases the
cost of living. Then there sets in an insane
competition for the houses that are fairly
near to the working centre, though in a
large city even they may considerable
distance away; and increased rents are
added to loss of time in travelling and loss
of money in travelling expenses. Yet the
wharf-laborer (say) who pays a high rent in
a big city probably gets no more for his
wharf-labor than the one who pays a lower
rent, and carries bags on the wharves of a
smaller city. He has three extra wolves
gnawing at his income—loss of time, extra
rents and travelling expenses—but the in-
come doesn’t necessarily increase in propor-
tion.
* * * *
In many Old World centres the difficulty is
met by packing the workers closer, without
regard to comfort, decency or health. Hence
comes the awful and insanitary tenement-
house, in which the dwellers are crowded like
fowls in a crate. The tenement-house pro-
duces notable results in the way of enabling
man to habitate close to his job. And if the
streets are narrow, so that the tenements can
be packed tightly together, and the buildings
are so high as to almost blot out the light
of day, and there is a whole family in each
room, and the landlord makes no foolish
waste of space by providing anything beyond
the irreducible minimum of sanitary conveni-
ences, and he puts subterranean dwellings
under each tenement, the results are more
than notable —-they approach the marvellous.
Even then, of course, in a really huge city
like London, the housing problem isn’t fully
solved, and, at the best, rents are high. In
London, according to a Board of Trade re-
port (dated 1905) 7s. 6d. a week is quite
a possible rent for a skyey shanty of
two apartments, while the same amount of
accommodation can be got in Cork (Ire-
land) for Is. 9d. But the tenement-house
method, to a considerable extent. Gets There.
To take the boasted model municipality of
Glasgow as an example, that place, includ-
ing suburbs, holds about 200,000 more people
than does Greater Melbourne, and compresses
them on less than one-thirteenth of the
space. It puts some 800,000 inhabitants on
an area about half as large again as Rand-
wick (Sydney), or three times the size of
Essendon (Melbourne). Glasgow has Got
There in good earnest, though there are
places that beat it badly. And even now
the workers of the old Clyde-side city com-
plain at times of being shoved too far out.
If Sydney isn’t going to adopt the loath-
some and degrading tenement-house system,
with all the misery it represents, the next
alternative is to make a stupendous effort to
deal with tfie question of transportation.
Thanks to the great prosperity of Australia,
and the policy which makes Sydney practi-
cally the only seaport of its State, the growth
of trade and manufactures in that city is
very large. Shops, warehouses and offices
are eating up the old residential districts
and shoving the people further back. The
little that is being done in the way of widen-
ing streets and destroying old, unsavory
slums is shoving the people still further back.
The great influx of new arrivals increases the
pressure, and the people are again shoved
back. The cry of the Furthest Out is that
cost of travelling eats seriously into their
incomes, and the loss of time in struggling
back and forward by a rather antiquated and
much-overloaded means of communication
makes a serious inroad on their time. The
howl of the Halfway Out is that they exped-
ience both these grievances in a minor degree,
and that the whooping up of rents is a third
and almost unbearable woe. Assuming the
tenement-house curse to be an unthinkable
expedient, Sydney, according to the present
policy of the country, will soon be up against
the absolute necessity for a railway through
the city, for a network of tube railways
underneath it, and for both bridges and tun-
nels to connect the city with Balmain and
North Shore. Probably £40,000,000 or
£50,000,000 is not an excessive estimate of
the bill which will have to be faced within a
comparatively few years, if the N.S.W.
metropolis is to improve just a very little,
instead of relapsing into the barbarism of
old European slums. Even Glasgow, despite
the genius which enables it to put some
800,000 people on an area between one-
seventh and one-eighth the size of Sydney and
its suburbs, finds the need not only for tram-
cars, but for main-line surface railways, local
overhead railways, and lines underground, in
order to drag its population to and fro.
And Sydney, by reason of its hills and dales
and countless inlets, is a far more difficult
problem from a traffic point of view than
London or Glasgow or Melbourne. In fact,
barring sodden and water-logged places like
Venice or Amsterdam, it is one of the worst
problems on earth.
It is not likely that the works above
enumerated will yield gorgeous profits. They
will not be in the same category with the
subterranean railways of densely-packed old
cities of Britain. They will cost much
money, yet if the overcrowding evil and the
tenement-house curse are to be avoided, they
must carry passengers comparatively long
distances for comparatively low fares,
through districts that will be thinly peopled
according to the worst Old World standards.
The fares must be low if the worker isn’t to
be badly handicapped by loss of monev as
well as loss of time. It is a serious problem,
but when it is the policy of a State to have
one city of (say) 1,000,000 people, in place
of four cities of 250,000 each, such problems
must be faced. Congestion is a luxury (or
a vice) that has to be paid for like "other
luxuries (or vices). Of course it may be
urged, and quite truly, that even if New
South Wales had never adopted the policy
of discouraging or disqualifying every port
save Sydney, the traffic problem of that city
would still turn up one day or another for a
very expensive settlement. But it would turn
up much later, and the State would be better
fitted to cope with it. For instance, the
census of 1901 described Toronto (Canada)
as a city of 208,000 people, and the capital
of a province with a population of 2,182,000;
while Sydney, at that time, was mentioned
as a city with 487,000 people, and the capi-
of a State possessing a population of
1,359,000. In other words, considering the
matter from a mere population standpoint,
Sydney had more than twice as large a
traffic and housing problem as Toronto, yet
the State it represented had a much smaller
population to pay for the solution of the
problem. And, since then, Sydney has grown
till it stands for a far larger proportion of
the N.S.W. population than it did in 1901, so
the problem is more top-heavy to-day than it
was 10 years ago.
Just now there is a clamor that the Gov-
ernment or the municipalities should take a
hand and provide house accommodation for
the working classes. The idea is an excellent
one; in fact, complete Government ownership
of cities is a proposal that can’t be too
highly commended. But, while Government
ownership should be an exceedingly good
thing for the Treasury, it is difficult to see
how it would do very much to meet this
especial difficulty. The State can’t turn
three miles into two. or two into one. If
the city toiler who lives in a privately-
owned cottage at Strathfield is now eight
miles from his job, public ownership
of that cottage wouldn’t reduce the
eight miles to four. No decent Govern-
ment could proceed to solve the hous-
ing problem by running up six-storey rook-
eries in Redfern and Paddington and Surry
Hills; it would be more likely to start
tearing down the crowded lanes that already
exist, and replacing them by wide streets, and
this ejection of the present slum-dwellers
would only add to the trouble. If the State
or the municipalities built a certain number
of good workmen’s houses, conveniently ad-
jacent to the city, and let them at moder-
ate rents —that is to say, at lower rents than
Private Enterprise is now charging—it would
have to make an invidious selection of its
tenants. Every city workman would want
to secure one of the good, cheap residences,
and, in the scuffle, Brown would be unjustly
taken, while Smith was inequitably left. And
whether the preference was given to Angli-
cans or Roman Catholics, to wharf laborers
or boiler makers or produce clerks, to tee-
totalers or moderate drinkers, to people who
voted for the Government or other people,
to church-goers or footballers or agnostics,
there would be grievous ill-feeling. Also,
the relief would be very limited. If, on the
other hand, the State did a gigantic resump-
tion, and constituted itself the sole landlord
of Sydney and its suburbs, it would under-
take a very large contract, for which it is
possibly not quite prepared; and even if it
accepted lower rents than Private Enterprise
demands, the man who requires to live near
his job and can’t get there, would still bo a
disturbing and infuriated element. The
traffic problem would remain as large as be-
fore and quite as expensive. Municipal
ownership of workmen’s dwellings has been
tried in various places, notably in Glasgow
and Berlin. It has its advantages, inasmuch
as rents are not excessive, and at the same
time the municipality makes a profit. In
Berlin, too, the municipal property is
beautifully clean; in Glasgow it is just
about as dirty as any other property. But
in neither place has any attempt been made
to solve the congestion trouble. The mayor
and corporation can no more get a quart
into a pint pot than can the private land-
lord. So these two municipalities have
simply heaped up gigantic tenement houses
and crowded the workers together in such a
fashion that Berlin has an average of
86,279 people to the square mile, and Glas-
gow about 44,000. That isn’t the sort of
arrangement that Sydney hankers after.
Yet it doesn’t know any reliable alterna-
tive. In fact, the struggle to build a great
city in which people will live on a decent
healthv plan is a struggle to do something
that the world has never yet accomplished.
Perhaps it would be best to abandon the
craze for especially great cities.
THE MINISTRY OF DAMN THE CON-
SEQUENCES.
The Labor Government of N.S.W. burst
out last week in a new place, or else it
burst out with new violence at an old place,
which is very much the same thing in the
end. Anyhow, it burst out, and this burst,
like so many other things of the sort, is to
be done with borrowed money. There is some-
thing so utterly shameless and cynical about
the McGowen Ministry’s loan policy that it
stands almost alone among the Ministries of
the Ma State. In the days when Labor was
in Opposition and was hungering for office,
it took to making a pretence of being the
party of honesty and solvency. It professed
to swear off the husks and the beer, and to
live cleanly. As a result, certain planks ap-
peared on the Labor platform which implied
that there was going to be a most commend-
able new departure. Loan expenditure was
to be limited, and people naturally thought
that when expenditure was limited it was to
be reduced no matter how little —not reck-
lessly increased. Then, loan moneys were
only to be expended on permanent and repro-
ductive works which would pay interest on
their cost and a modest sinking fund as
well. Of course, it is practically impossible
to say in advance whether a public work
will or will not pay interest and sinking
fund, but, if it doesn’t, the trouble can always
be met by charging part of the cost against
ordinary revenue, and leaving the work
with no more debt burden than it can carry
on the basis above set forth. It was a per-
fectly feasible reform which the Labor
party proposed, and many people fancied
that it was an honest one. They didn’t
know then that the McGowen Ministry
could be just as unprincipled and as un-
scrupulous, when it felt that way, as the
worst of its predecessors. To-day it is the
great Razzle-Dazzle Cabinet, and all its pre-
tences at honest finance have gone to the
winds.
* * * *
Last year the N.S.W. loan expenditure
climbed up to £4,190,886, a figure that has
only thrice been equalled in the State’s his-
tory, and the total debt, at June 30 last
was nearly £00,000,000. Apparently the
great debt centenary, when the £100,000,000
hgure will be reached, is due in about an-
otner year, and it is time to get the flags
ana the bonfires ready. Since June 30 the
loan money has been shovelled out at the
rate of £5,000,000 per annum, which is a
record for the State, and is nearly five times
the figure for 1907. An increase of close on
500 per cent, in four years is a curious kind
of “limitation.” And apparently even this
strenuous pace is to be accelerated, for last
week the Minister for Works set to work to
rush through Bills providing for the con-
struction of five new railways, one devia-
tion of an old railway, one sewerage scheme
and one harbor improvement idea. Also, he
proposed that there should be referred in
haste to the Public Works Committee 18
new country railways, one suburban rail-
way, one city railway (to the eastern
suburbs), the Sydney-North Shore bridge,
the Sydney-North Shore railway tunnel,
two new tramways, three sewerage schemes,
four water supply schemes, two harbor im-
provement schemes (Port Kembla and Coff’s
Harbor), one floating dock (Newcastle),
one meat market (Sydney), a plan for
locking the Darling liiver, and a proposal
for the establishment of State-owned ferry
services on Sydney Harbor. Pie nad such a
gorgeous day out that 52 consecutive motions
on the Assembly business paper commenced
with the words: “Mr. Griffith to move,”
and every time Mr. Griffith moved it was
to propose the expenditure of more loan
money. An intensely movable person was
Mr. Griffith. All these things consti-
tute a stupendous order. The country
railways are doubtless required, but in the
absence of any serious proposals for opening
up new ports—the only hint in that direc-
tion is the suggested “improved shipping
facilities at Coff’s Harbor” —they will only
make the railway congestion worse than it
is at present, and hasten the time when very
many millions of good red loan money will
have to be spent on the duplication of exist-
ing lines. The other works also look, at the
first glance, fully justifiable, though the
North Shore bridge and the Central meat
market are more properly undertakings for
the Greater Sydney Council, if such a body
existed. Unfortunately it doesn’t exist, nor
does it seem likely to arrive within any
reasonable period. In the rush for the halls
where the banquet of the Great Loan Drunk
is spread this very essential question ap-
pears to have been once more obliterated
and lost sight of. It is a sober, business-like
matter, and not nearly so dazzling as the
Great Loan Drunk.
But the fact that the proposed works are
in many cases absolutely essential doesn’t
justify the borrowing madness of the
McGowen Ministry. Food and clothes are
also essentials, but none the less the person
who owes for all his food and clothes gets
into serious trouble. The starting of a large
public works boom may be good for the
party at the forthcoming elections, but it
is likely to be very bad for the State in the
end. Huge and sudden borrowing makes
loan money dear, and that adds to the cost
of public works. A sudden and frenzied de-
mand for labor and material sends up the
price of each, and further adds to the cost of
the works—especially when the demand comes
at a time of prosperity like the present. And
in proportion to the size of the boom is the
size of the_ army of workers that has to be
turned adrift when it is found necessary to
slacken the pace. Th'at sudden slackening
of the pace is the curse of all public works
booms that are built on the national I O U.
If the McGowen Government had; provided
a genuine sinking fund for the steady repay-
ment of the public debt, and if it applied the
land revenue to public works purposes,
which is the least that any honest and sol-
vent community could do, then its new un-
dertakings wouldn’t be quite all in pawn to
Solomon. Cohen, and instead of its works
policy being a temporary madness it might
be a steady continuous institution. Unhap-
pily, the crowd in office seems about the very
last crowd from which anything steady and
continuous in the way of finance can be ex-
pected. For the last financial year the de-
ficit was £338,202. The payments to the
various little Sinking Funds (£409,349)
were £11,685 less than during the previous
year, though there was much more debt that
required to be sunk; so the great bulk of the
alleged Sinking Fund was really paid out of
temporary , borrowings. The increase of ex-
penditure in the mere ordinary work of gov-
ernment was £116,720. The old deficit— s the
ghost that has been on the premises for a
whole quarter-century—isn’t extinct even
now; while on June 30 last the business of
building a new deficit was well in hand. It
promises to be a fine large structure when
finished, for during the first two months of
the new financial year the Treasury has
managed to spend nearly £BO,OOO more than
it has received ; and thus it is falling back-
ward at the rate of nearly £500,000 per an-
num. It is in tne midst of very bleak cir-
cumstances that the greatest public works
boom in N.S.W.’s exciting history is being
inaugurated. The McGowen Cabinet pro-
mises to go down to posterity as the Min-
istry of Damn the Consequences.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The 4ft. 8½in. Line.
The announcement made by the Fishes
Ministry that the railway to Westralia is
to be built on the 4ft. gauge, and that
that gauge “represents the policy of the
Government,” again suggests that the
Government has got very deeply into the
old groove or ancient rut. So far as is
known, it hasn’t made the slightest attempt
to discover by personal research, before
starting on its great railway-building
career, whether the Brennan mono-rail is
a real success or not. The record of that in-
vention is that it has answered every trial,
and that those engineers who have seen it
working have admitted that it lived up to its
pretensions. Of course Britain, France, Ger-
many, Switzerland, Italy and even the
United States look upon it with a gloomy
eye. These countries have already built on
,the two-rail system most of the lines they
ever expect to want, and the proposal that
they should tear these gigantic works to
pieces in order to instal a new system
doesn’t appeal to them. When Louis Bren-
nan told the British railway shareholders,
for instance —shareholders who have about
1300 million pounds invested in railway en-


terprises in their own little islands —that
he had devised a great improvement which
would tend to put all their old methods on
the scrap-heap, they naturally enough told
him to go speedily to perdition, and take his
great improvement with him, and make a
present of it to the Devil. And there _ are
enougn railway shareholders in the British
House of Commons to make it dead sure
that that body won’t encourage the building
of rival lines on the new _ principle. The
same trouble is met with in all the older
countries, and the foolish attitude of the
newer countries is that the invention can’t
be of much account, else the older ones
would have taken it up. It is another case
of sticking to the venerable rut and keeping
in the hoary groove. Yet there are enough
possibilities about the mono-rail device to
justify Australia in voting £IOO,OOO or more
in order that the inventor may come out
here and demonstrate on the spot what can
be done. Most of this country’s lines are yet
to be built. Most of those that are already
built will have to be reconstructed, for the
foolish old diversity of gauges is an evil that
must be tackled sooner or later. It is
claimed for the mono-rail that it is cheaper
to construct than the old double-barrelled
style of line, that it is as cheap to work,
and that it can give, with safety, very much
greater speed. Not one of these claims has
been disproved—in fact, they have been
widely accepted and corroborated. But on
the other hand, it nas been proved that when
an inventor bucks against a complete, estab-
lished system wnich, in the little British
Isles alone, stands for over £1,300,000,000,
and tries to explain to the owners that the
thing is antiquated and played out, he is
liable to get a very cold reception. The
Bulletin doesn’t profess to say that the
Brennan mono-rail device is a huge suc-
cess. But it does say that it looks like
enough to a success to call for close investi-
gation, and so far there doesn’t seem to
have been any serious attempt at investi-
gation.
More Worry for John Weary.
The Commission which Premier Weary ap-
pointed to inquire as to Melbourne’s
transport requirements—appointed because
Weary was too much so to go into the busi-
ness himself—has passed up its report and
practically told the alleged leader of the
State to get a move on in the obvious direc-
tion without delay. Briefly, it recommends
the electrification of the suburban railway
system, the purchase by the State of the
existing tramway lines, the extension of
those lines and the construction of sundry
patently-necessary connections, and the
creation of a metropolitan municipal trust
to manage the whole tramway outfit. There
is nothing remarkable about the report,
though it would have been remarkable if the
commission had recommended anything else.
The trouble now is to waken the Premier
and get him into something dimly resembling
motion. Since the tramway system was
planned the city’s extension has been so
great that pretty nearly every line now
needs carrying from one to three miles
further out, and the railway system has been
so constructed that there is room between
every line for a fast tramway service,’ which
would be a payable proposition from the
start. Also, there is a large demand for
inter-suburban lines, so that a man who
wished to go from Brunswick to Northcote,
from Camberwell to Caulfield, or from Caul-
field to Brighton Beach, would not be com-
pelled to cover thrice the distance by riding
into the city and out again. As for electri-
fying the suburban railways, the need for
doing so was obvious before the foreign ex-
pert Merz was imported to furnish a re-
port —which was duly paid for and duly
pigeon-holed. It is unfortunate for the
Weary Government that three commissions
—on traffic, tramway fares and the removal
of noxious trades—have handed in reports
inviting it to turn up its sleeves and do
something just when Weary’s Ministry has
to give- an account of its stewardship to the
electors. Those electors should give Weary
and co. an anxious time concerning the
things they ought to have done but haven’t.
If they don’t put in the place of the worn-
out Ministry a Government that will do
something they will get just what they de-
serve —nothing.
Lip-loyalty and Importerdom.
Last Friday, in one of those moments of
perception which occasionally hit < ven the
Australian Jingo, S. M. Herald wrote as
follows: —
We must look with some suspicion on the growth
of foreign mercantile marines, more particularly
when they are buttressed by heavy subsidies, which
their purely commercial aspects hardly justify. ' It
is essential that the Empire should never allow itself
to be outclassed in merchant ships of great tonnage
and speed, which may become a. factor at the first
outbreak of naval war.
That is the importing person speaking as an
Imperialist. It is the sort of fine, large pro-
nouncement that, when howled on Empire
Day by Bruce Smith or any of the other
licensed Empire-preservers, provokes volleys
of applause. But that is all there is to it.
When the importing person speaks as an
importer—which is to say, about 99 times
out of a hundred —his attitude is entirely
different. This question of the perilous in-
crease in Australian wmters of “foreign mer-
chant ships of great tonnage and speed” was
raised by Prime Minister Fisher at the Im-
perial Conference. He suggested that steps
should be taken to prevent it. At once the
local Importing interests forgot Imperialism
and remembered only Importerdom. Sydney
Telegraph said: —
The question arises as to how far the Common-
wealth is being injured by the fact that the Govern-
ments . of some foreign countries pay part of the
freight charges on the exchange of commodities be-
tween their people and the people of Australia. Ger-
many and France are the two nations most con-
cerned, and both of them are large customers for
Australia’s staple products. The lower the freight
either way the better for us. If the whole of the
freight on the trade with their respective countries,
instead of part of it, was paid by the German and
French Governments, the people of Australia would,
in the shape of cheaper goods, get the benefit of it.
In his capacity of importer the noisy Aus-
tralian “loyalist” doesn’t care a cuss that
these ships, which carry goods to and from
Australia so cheaply and so swiftly, are
able to do it mainly because they are heavily
subsidised by their Governments; and sub-
sidised on the express understanding that,
in the event of war, they shall at once re-
vert to their national Admiralties. All that
the importer — qua importer —remembers, in
this regard, is such soul-stirring phrases as
“The lower the freight either way the better
for us.” The same stupefying attitude is
observable in a hundred other directions.
Last week, for example, one of the Sydney
dailies gave explicit details concerning the
establishment of a branch of the U.S. Meat
Trust in this country. Now the vast Yankee
Meat Trust doesn’t need Australia s com-
paratively paltry business. It is here because
the Commonwealth promises, in the near
future, to be the only place, in the world on
which the 46 million inhabitants of Britain
can rely for cheap meat. The Trust already
has America in its grip; Argentina is prac-
tically in the same position. When the pos-
sibility of the London meat market being-
disorganised by a sudden rush of cheap car-
cases from Australia has been eliminated,
the Trust will be in a position to fleece the
meat-eating Briton as it is now fleecing the
American. And immediately and automa-
tically the day of the Bursting of Empire
will proceed to draw several miles closer.
Yet when Australian Nationalists ask for
power to scotch this indisputable menace,
the local Empire leaguer objects in the name
of State Rights, Anti-Socialism and similar
absurdities. In reality, the Australian Im-
perialist” is, for all practical purposes, the
most dastardly of disloyalists. In his Em-
pire Day plug hat and other accoutrements
he claims to be willing to sacrifice his all for
the Imperial cause; in his business clothes
he invariably puts the saving of 2d. worth
of freight charges, or the defeat of a Labor
Government before every ImDerial interest
from Westminster Abbey down to the
meanest S’African kraal.
Josiah’s Disingenuousness.
Last week, in Melbourne, an ill-directed
attack on the early-closing policy of Josiah
Thomas, P.M.G., was easily repulsed by a
few statistics. As a matter of fact, the un-
successful attack came from the wrong quar-
ters, and the P.M.G. had nothing to beat.
Affable Deakin introduced a deputation
mostly of country town councillors, who
babbled of the inconveniences and business
losses inflicted on their brother citizens by
the economical system —new to Victoria ot
closing post and telegraph offices at b p.m.
instead of two hours later. The change re-
presents a saving of £70,000 a year, the
three most expensive States being now
brought into line with Queensland and Wes-
tralia, where 6 o’clock closing hour has been
established for a quarter of a century.
Against this financial position the deputa-
tion had only feeble charges to make. As
soon as a small town councillor voiced his
petty grievance, Mr. Thomas stated the
paltry average number of telegrams 2j or
so—that had been formerly despatched from
the complainant’s town between 6 and »
o’clock at the deadest time ot year. The
figures blew out the grievance, lhe Mayor
of a Melbourne suburb, who professed
deep concern on behalf of local “workers,
was the least extinguishable of the crowd.
But the P.M.G. got over the difficulty by
averaging the figures from _ 231 Victorian
telegraph offices, and declaring that if he
were to return to the recent system as re-
gards N.S.W., Victoria and S.A., he would
have to apply it also to the States where it
was abolished long, long ago. The deputa-
tion, being mostly from the country, did not
point out to Thomas that the loss of con-
venience is not equally shared among 231
districts. Nearly half the population in Vic-
toria, as in N.S.W., is confined to a tew
miles radius. Crowded metropolitan dis-
tricts have something to make a song about,
but they don’t make it. Their material
grievance is not great enough to inspire a
truly pathetic song, apparently.
♦ —
Amid outcries of horror and wrath N.S.W.
“Liberals” rushed into the recent fray at
Mudgee and Liverpool Plains, calling upon
the country to awake, and arise, and throw
out anybody who dared to decry the sacred
rights of Propputty, which, they declared,
centred in “Freehold.” Freehold? What is
it? It doesn’t exist! Not in the Ma State,
anyhow. McDonald, of Bingara, was the
man to draw attention to this fact. In the
debate, or scramble over, or dog-fight round
the “address-in-reply,” the Opposition tore
the dense atmosphere of Parliament House
into shreds as they raved at the Government
for “hunting people out of N.S.W. into
Queensland.” Nobody on the Government
side took any notice of the allegation till the
boy from Bingara (he is only 27) rose with
his little lot, which appears in Hansard of
September 7: —
This is the position: A man buys a freehold from
the Crown, and we find under the Mining Act that
the Minister has power to declare any part of the
earth a mineral. . , . ...
Mr. Price: But the Crown cannot interfere with
the surface rights without compensation!
Mr. G. R. W. McDonald: The Crown owns the
minerals, and has the right to declare that any other
part of the earth is a mineral. The Crown owns
the water—that is, any lagoon, swamp, river, lake or
creek—-and the Crown also owns the timber that
grows on the land. I should like to ask what else
there is to own f After you have got what is left—
and apparently there is nothing left—you cannot
transfer what is left without the written consent of
the Minister. So much for the freehold. When the
next election comes round, and the public become
more acquainted with the Acts under which they are
living, when they know that this statement of the
Opposition about giving the freehold is nothing more
or less than humbug, I hope they will give a different
vote from what they have been giving so far as hon.
members opposite are concerned.
Whereat the WADE-ites sat like so many
Lot’s wives, after the lingering lady had
started the salt industry. A little further on
in the debate the trouble started again:—
Mr. G. R. W. McDonald: Hon. members opposite
have repeatedly stated that the leasehold system of
the Labor party is hunting people out of this State
into Queensland.
Hon. Members: Hear, hear !
Mr. G. R. W. McDonald: Hon. members applaud
that statement; but the point is, that people who go
to Queensland can only get a leasehold when they
reach there.
It was such a beastly awkward business
that the Great Dailies of Sydney took the
line of least resistance and didn’t report it.
On September 4 Melbourne Argus blazed
forth as follows re the “absentee clause” of
the Land Tax Act: —
One of the most disreputable anomalies [in the
measure] is the way in which an investor, not living
in Australia, is penalised . . . These British in-
vestors are merely our commercial clients, with whom
we have relations for mutual advantage. Australia
receives the use of their capital, with the benefits of
employment, population and national wealth, which
it helps to produce; they, on the other hand, receive
interest and dividends.
In the same issue the Argus discussed the
affairs of the Van Diemen’s Land Co., which
put very little capital—in fact, hardly any
capital at all—into a most fertile section ot
Tasmania about the time when the kan-
garoo still sprang off his tail in Collins-
street, Melbourne. It got a vast amount of
land on easy conditions, one ot which was
that it must raise within a certain time a
certain small amount of produce. It raised
the minimum of produce, and being too tired
to look for a market, dumped a propor-
tion of it into the sea near Burme? Then it
abandoned agriculture and sat down to
await a rise in prices and collect such tew
rents as came its way without exertion. It
didn’t build a railway—local capifal had to
do that; it kept the land a howlipg wilder-
ness ; it did hardly any good for itself; and
it was no use to man or dog. It was largely
responsible for the tact that Tasgy has, on
so many occasions, showed an actu’al decrease
of population. Now, the graduated land tax
having shaken it out of its slumbers, it is
selling to a Melbourne syndicate. This Aus-
tralian concern reckons it knows how to
make money, despite the land tax, put of an
estate for which it pays a huge price, while
“foreign capital,” though it got the pro-
perty for practically nothing, could only
make a wilderness. God bless foreign capi-
tal !
The Melbourne Age seriously urges that a
great Federal Government refinery should
be erected near the Australian .capital of
Yassberra, it having become fairly evident
that the fury and swelled head of the Col-
onial Sugar Refining monopoly ig bringing
about a crisis. But (apart from the fact that,
till the Australian Parliament is granted the
enlarged powers which the Age helped
to deny it, last April, it has no legal right to
go into business as a sugar-refiner)
what is the use of talking about
anything of the kind at Yassbera?
The Australian Government hasn’t much
land there. The district doesn’t supply
coal. There is no water power available;
in fact, there isn’t even a supply of water to
be obtained by gravitation for the use of the
capital city unless it is a mere big village,
and coal will have to be constantly brought
at huge expense to drive the pumping en-
gines which will pump incessantly to force
drinking fluid into tne town. And then,
instead of cheap and handy water carriage
for the removal of the goods of
the proposed refinery, there is to be a
railway of considerable length leading to a
dry port that ends at high-water mark. It
was largely because of the abundant water
power and "the consequent facilities for cheap
manufacturing that The Bulletin urged
the selection of a capital site on Monaro, but
a great number of the Laborites of the day.
though they did lip service to the cause of
Public Enterprise and Public Land Owner-
ship, hated it in their hearts, and gave their
votes for a place which had but one notable
qualification—its utter unfitness for any pur-
pose save that of a small and fairly pictur-
esque residential village. So the Federal
sugar refinery at Yassberra had better con-
sider itself born dead.
♦—
“F.” writes from John Weary’s capital:
“Australian Manufactures Week” in Victoria may
have been an impressive occasion for a few country
towns, but in Melbourne the shopkeepers mostly ig-
nored it. Very few drew attention to the fact that
Australia has manufacturing industries; none of
them—bar a notable suburban emporium—made a
notable fuss about it. The movement that looked so
promising six years ago seems to have lost force,
somehow. “Australian Manufactures Day” was in-
troduced to as many Melbourne shopkeepers as
would give Charles Atkins a hearing on the sub-
ject—he being president of the Vic. Chamber of
Manufacturers at the time. The day gained popu-
larity in the next three or four years, but subse-
quently the original simple patriotic doctrine was
corrupted. The V.C.M. offered prizes for an Aus-
tralian Goods “window-dressing competition,” which,
as the ex-president protested, would discourage the
little shopkeepers who had previously shown a keen
rivalry in their annual display. The prizes were
only for the large shops with lots of window space.
Now that the one-day prize competition has been
superseded by an “Australian Manufactures Week,”
neither the big nor small shops are enthusiastic,
Their patriotism is of sickly growth, and a breath
of cold wind withers the leaves. The seed of it
was planted in other soils, however, and in
Maoriland and Queensland cities, and in Sydney
it has been fruitful. Also, the practical Mr.
Atkins must have planted the seed in poor old
England. When he was there, two years ago, he
suggested to the Secretary of the London Chamber
of Commerce that there should be a display of
British goods in the shop windows, with the back-
ground of Australian raw material, so that the
Cockney world might perceive the local need for
Protection, and the Australian reason for Protec-
tion at one fell swoop of the eve. The secretary
pooh-poohed this attempt to foist a beastly kaw-
lonial notion upon Britain’s Freetrade policy—but
he made a note of it, and the recent “All British
Shopping Week” in London was no doubt directly
due to the beastly kawlonial notion.
♦-
From “Jeames” :
We put up with a lot of anomalies in Australia,
in the name of Loyalty, Established Usage, Empire,
etc., and among the most flagrant of them, as The
Bulletin has often pointed out, is the insane prac-
tice of paying heavy bonuses for the free feeding of
the rich. State Government Houses we must have,
as the State Constitutions insist on the presence of
Governors of some sort. But, so far as Sydney is
concerned, it is wholly unnecessary to subsidise the
Gov.-Gen. by means of a costly palace, grounds, and
so on, on condition that he puts in a quarter of the
year more or less in that city. Few, if any, Federal
Executive Council meetings are held there. The
Sovereign is represented adequately and officially by
the State Governor. Yet the N. S. Wales Labor
party’s horse-sense proposal to resume Federal Gov-
ernment House and grounds for public purposes is
met with howls of protest from the well-to-do. Con-
sider, in terms of hard cash, what the G.-G.’s oc-
casional presence in Sydney means under the present
arrangement. The value of Federal Government
House is not less than £lOO,OOO. Surrounding
it are 36 acres of land, worth, at least, £4OOO per
acre = £144,000 ; total, £244,000, or, at 3£ per
cent., £8540 per annum. Add to this £6OOO for
up-keep, and it will be seen that N. S. Wales pays
some £14,540 per annum for the privilege of having
the Gov.-General on the premises during a fraction
of each year. The social advantages of his presence
are distributed among 2500 people on the
“garden party list” (of whom only 50 per
cent. attend), 900 on the “ball list,” and
200 on the “dinner list,” the last two in-
cluded in the first. Thus, the free feeders at the
most number only 1250. Their extra expenditure
in connection with Government House festivities
works out at about £2 per head, and the
spends a similar sum on each ; the total is thus
£5OOO, which is distributed amongst the local
tradespeople. The residue of £9540 is paid by the
general body of taxpayers, and is equal to a subsidy
of £7 12s. 7d. per person entertained. It is a quaint
circumstance that this big bonus on cheap amuse-
ment is fought for passionately by the very class
that objects, on principle, to a “white” sugar bonus,
an iron bonus, and kindred grants whose objective
is to make a nation of Australia. What, one wonders,
is the opinion of the electors on the subject.
G.D.: Less than three years ago Won-
thaggi (Vic.) was just as it had been be-
fore Captain Cook was born. Then the
Government started a Socialistic coal mine
there, and though it works on a very small
scale, the place has already a population ot
9000, and provides work and wages for three
bankers and their assistants, two solicitors,
three doctors, five commission agents, and
many shopkeepers, property . dealers and
sundries. As a result of all this, a patch ot
scrub of negative value has become worth
something approaching £400,000 without the
expenditure of a penny —that is to say, it
has acquired an unimproved value ot some-
thing like that sum. This is the money that
has been made out of nothing by the mere
aggregation of a few people on the spot, it
gives some faint idea pf the sums N.o.W. s
absurd Government is fooling away by
hanging on so desperately to its policy ot
dragging everything to Sydney for the en-
richment of the private landlord of that big
city, instead of building railways to some ot
the fine neglected ports and allowing new
State-owned cities to grow there. There are
possibilities about Port Stephens and Two-
fold Bay that Wonthaggi will never possess.
It is a one-horse mining town, and as mines
even at the best are precarious and evanes-
cent, a purely mining town is always more
or less one-horse, however big the horse may
be. The cities which N.S.W. hasn’t got
would have a prospect of being Liverpool or
Glasgow or Sydney or Melbourne over again
—great permanent centres worth all the
State’s public debt, big as that is. And
there is nothing one-horse about that out-
look.
One of the present jests of Westralian poli-
tics is the Collie electorate. Premier Wil-
son represents Sussex electorate just along-
side Collie, and at last election he scraped
in by 77 votes, a lamentable drop as com-
pared with his majority of 360 three years
earlier. Now there were five townships in
Sussex where, in 190 S, the Premier got
altogether only 61 votes, while his opponent
got 283, and the Premier probably didn’t
want these places in his electorate any more.
And in the adjacent Collie electorate, though
it returned a Laborite, there were three
solid Conservative townships which gave the
Government candidate 318 votes to Labor’s
102, and the Premier could probably do with
these three places. So when the redistribu-
tion of seats happened the three Conserva-
tive centres were cut out of Collie and
added to Sussex, and the five Labor town-
ships were cut out of the Premier’s elector-
ate of Sussex and added to Collie. That
didn’t make the .Labor member any safer at
Collie, because he was absolutely safe there
already; it only increased his assured
majority, which was a matter of painting
the rose and whitewashing the lily. But it
turned the Premier’s small and very much
faded majority in Sussex to a very solid and
reliable affair. Incidentally, the new elec-
torate of Collie is the exact shape of a mad
dog; it looks as King Division (N.S.W.)
The "Old and Experienced Member”
Protests.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Lack of familiarity on the part of the Speaker
with usages of the N.S.W. Legislative Assembly,
and the enforcement of new readings of the standing
orders, are the primary causes of much of the con-
fusion of the past few weeks. Old and experienced
members become, like novices in Parliamentary life,
puzzled how to proceed. It was causes of this kind
that led to the removal of Mr. Wood, member for
Bega, from the Chamber last night.—S. M. Herald.
’S’truth, lads, ther place ain’t bin the
blanky same
Since this yer blighter Willis took the
Cheer;
One curse (and, boys, I mention it with
shame),
Hout goes the curser on ’is blanky ear.
Larst week that ’ero of a ’undred fights
(Or rather challenges), ’Erb Skiter, tries
Ter stoush the smallest o’ the Laborites.
The Speaker makes bold ’Erb apologise !
On Tooseday Blogson (bein’ on the tank)
Starts ’eavin’ insults at the ’Ouse at large;
And wot does Willis do —-the blanky
blank —-
But go and give our poor old pal in
charge.
A month ’as passed and never one tree fight,
Or unrestricted cursin’ bout ’as come
To cheer the day and brighten up the night
Of them wot makes the ’Ouse their second
’ome.
T he days are seemin’ly for ever done
Of oaths and scraps and beer and wild
hub-bub;
The good old times when Parliament was
run
Upon the lines of some gay care-free pub.
Wot wonder that our Lib’ral braves are
dazed ?
Poor blokes, they’re like some lawless
push or crowd
Confronted by a blanky cop—amazed,
Demoralised, dejected, stunned and cowed.
N.S.W.
EHEU FUGAOCES.
Faint Yelps.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. Willis went on to refer to the resolutions
that had been carried in various centres, calling
upon him to resign. He remarke 1 that at the Mus-
wellbrook meeting, where 15 1( agues were said to
have been represented, there were only 11 persons
present. Four of them stood by him. In Aberdeen
there were six on each side, and a motion was car-
ried on the casting vote of the chairman. He did
not regard that as a condemnatory mandate from his
electors. —Sydney Telegraph.
The small dog yelps in his safe backyard
when the moon is shining bright;
He makes the neighborhood rage and curse
in the silver, placid night
Till a vengeful being with heavy boots comes
out and madly kicks;
Then silence falls like a healing balm and
the neighbors drop their bricks.
The cur that yelps is a wretched thing which
ought to be shot on sight;
But it is his own shrill, genuine yelp with
which he spoils the night;
He doesn’t pretend to ye.p for scores and
hundreds of yelping pals;
In which respect he’s superior to some of
your Liberals.
When next despatching a yelp machine,
please tie him with nice pink cord.
And give him a first-class bag and brick to
sink to his just reward ;
He doesn’t deserve from a weary world the
watchdog’s box and bone;
But give him credit for this good point— his
horrible yelp's his own!
N.S.W.
FOE.


TO RUN A SUCCESSFUL
MOVING PICTURE SHOW
YOU REQUIRE
Ist. A reliable projection machine.
2nd. The Best and Most Reliable Film
Service In Australia.
3rd. To Trade with a Firm who will
Give You Prompt Attention and
Stuc y Your Interests.
PLACE YOUR ORDERS WITH US,
and you will get satisfaction.
Tut leaping cinematographic
& photographic merchants
SYDNEY
JiD.EISIDE
Ħ
BRISBBM&
WfcLLIrtGTGrt.NZ.
Write for particulars of the
Kelvin Generating Set for cheap electric
lighting. Jerdan’s Ltd., 393 George Street,
Sydney.
.EVERY INCH AN AUSTRALIAN.:
Every part of an INVINCIBLE engine that
CAN be made here IS made here at our Works at
Woolwich Dock, Sydney. And we use Australian
material wherever it is suitable.
We have our own aluminium, bronze, and iron
foundries —probably the most complete in the
Commonwealth. All imported metals are bought
specially, for us, and each lot is subjected to
careful tests by our London expert.
Our staff is highly trained, and our machinery
at ' Woolwich Dock is elaborate and up-to-date.
We have several thousand pounds’ worth of pat-
terns, covering oil engines of all powers and
type*. We also carry a very heavy stock of
duplicate parts, and are, therefore, able to
execute all orders with the most satisfactorv
celerity. These faculties mean SATISFACTION
TO YOUR PERMANENT SATISFACTION.
Buy an “INVINCIBLE”—the Australian En-
gine—reliable, economic, reasonable in price, and
GUARANTEED FOR FIVE YEARS.
Invincible Motor Construction Co., Ltd., Works,
Woolwich Dock, Sydney. Showrooms, 35 Pitt
iStreet, Sydney. And at Melbourne and Adelaide.,
Franz Josef
Lager Beer
SparKling,
Refreshing',
Exhilarating'
and Ptire.
Franz Josef possesses the true Lager quality
and character, being sharp, clean, and of
light gravity.
might do if it were stretched to take in part
of Pitt-street, Sydney, also Bourke, Albury
and the Old Men’s Home at Liverpool. And
Sussex electorate alongside looks like a paper
collar that has been bitten by devils. But
these are mere trivialities.
Fairbairn, from an Equine Point of View.
There was a gathering at P’ran (Victoria),
the other evening, to welcome Squatter
Fairbairn, who sits in the House of Reps,
for Fawkner, back from his Coronation trip.
Fairbairn is a wealthy land-owner, and he
represents a thoroughly Tory constituency.
It was natural, therefore, that such pure
merinos as Norman Bayles, M.L.A., and
Embling, M.L.C., should be amongst the
speakers. Pretty well everything was in
keeping with the occasion, where all present
were “select,” and “right-thinking”; but
Fairbairn made the following remarks: —
Industrial peace was more easily obtained from
the Wages Boards than from the Arbitration Court.
(Hear, hear.).
He was glad to see that Australia was being kept
white. Numbers of Chinese and Japanese were
flocking into Canada. He believed that the sister
Dominion would regret the day when she allowed
those aliens to enter. (Hear, hear.).
These remarks are more interesting than
they look. They represent the regular de-
velopment of the Tory mind —not the worst
variety of Tory mind, though. Wages
Boards nowadays seem rather ordinary
things, but if one projects himself backwards
into the past, he will find that only yesterday,
so to speak, they were looked upon as very
extraordinary, indeed. Just before the end
of last century, when George Turner and
Arthur Trenwith started out in Victoria
to put down the worst forms of sweating, by
the simple process of raising wages per me-
dium of Act of Parliament, these two
politicians were regarded as raging icono-
clasts who were madly butting up against
the inevitable —the inevitable being the
alleged blessed Law of Demand and
Supply, described by Walter Besant
as the Law of Elevenpence Ha’penny
a Day. No Tory of the Fairbairn or
Embling stamp had a good word for Wages
Boards in those days, though plenty of Tories
speak more or less kindly of them now. It
is the same with the White Australia policy.
The moderate and not wholly incurable Tory
always arrives in course of time, just as does
the jibbing horse that is towed behind the
vehicle. At the end of the day’s journey he
is much further forward than he was at the
beginning. The trouble about him is: (1)
that he is as far behind the vehicle in the
evening as he was in the morning; (2) that
be hasn’t dragged the vehicle one inch, but
the vehicle, tbe name whereof is Progress,
has dragged him; (3) that if he hadn’t been
dragged he wouldn’t liave moved at all; (4)
that though he approves in a cautious sort of
way of tbe progress he has made, he isn’t
any more ready to help at hauling the
vehicle than he was before, consequently,
next day, and all the succeeding days, he has
to be dragged again; (5) that he annoys the
vehicle by affably assuming credit for the
mileage that has been covered already, and
expresses his lofty but reserved approval of
the whole business with a maddening air of
patronage. That is the situation as regards
Tories of the Fairbairn stamp. The Emb-
ling variety is worse. It represents the horse
that was left behind because it wasn’t worth
dragging, and that animal is still eating
grass away back in the paddock of the Middle
Ages.
A Debt which is Impolitely Treated.
The average State politician behaves to-
wards the Public Debt with great lack of
courtesy. He will never look it frankly in
the face ; he will avert his eyes whenever it
raises its head to speak on its own behalf;
he will even deny its existence. This is Very
rough on the Debt, which is a homely and
affectionate creature, fond of calling upon
its friends on payday. Treasurer Willie
Watt, of Victoria, is the latest person to
display lack of manners towards the perti-
nacious but unoffending Debt. In his Budget
speech, last Thursday, Willie remarked
(with a free use of capital letters) :
The State works gave a Net Return of £1,841,509
In addition, we’ received in Interest on
Advances .. .. .. .. 208,269
Making the total available for payment of
Interest .. .. .. .. ..£2,049,778
The interest on the Total Public Debt
was . . .. .. . . . . 2,001,956
So that we had a Surplus of . . . . £47,822
over and above our Interest liability.
I use these figures to assure those interested that in
the full sense of the words There is No Public
Debt.
Watt is as strenuous in denial as Peter.
After such a scarifying, the lorn and hapless
Debt ought to go away into a corner and
weep. But supposing Willie were to apply
his argument to a simple little case like
this: —
I have a house mortgaged to the last
brick, and I pay annually in interest £5l 18 6
But I pay myself, as landlord, per annum 52 0 0
Leaving a surplus of .. .. ..£Ol6
Therefore in the fullest sense There is No Mort-
gage, and I am the proud owner of an unencum-
bered property.
That would be exactly Willie’s position.
The people of Victoria have to pay Holy
Moses £2.001,956 per annum. They pay
£2,049,778 from one to another of their own
pockets, and pay the interest out of the
second pocket. Then comes Willie, fresh
from Bedlam, and slapping them on both
pockets in turn, he cries, “You haven’t paid
any interest! You haven’t got any Debt!”
It is lunacy. Worse, it is abominably rude
to the Debt, which has been howling for
proper acknowledgment ever since it was
born. The Debt will have its revenge. It
won’t be explained away, for it is the one
permanent Fact. The railways may tumble
to pieces. The waterworks may bust. But
the Debt will sit patiently, waiting to be
recognised at last.
“Phil Harum” : Touching the infamy of
Caucus rule; the N.S.W. Country Party,
now out in search of candidates in view of
the pending general election, is responsible
for the following:—
Each candidate for selection shall submit his nomi-
nation in writing to the returning officer, and shall
also forward to the general secretary of the executive
council an undertaking that he will retire if not
selected, and that if selected he will advocate the
Association platform during the election, and that
he will loyally support and advance the various
planks of the platform if returned to Parliament.
Each candidate for selection shall also agree that, in
the event of being selected by the branches in the
electorate, the same being endorsed by the executive
council, he will not retire from the contest without
the consent of the branch or branches responsible for
his candidature, and of the Executive Council of the
Association.
Yet, Ass orators, from President Patten
downwards, have the gall to condemp the
cast-iron pledge of the Labor party.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Hbr Majesty’s Melba Opera Co.
ROYAL “ A Waltz Dream.”
Criterion “Lady Frederick.”
Adelpiii.... “The Fatal Wedding.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Palace “Nobody’s Daughter.”
Lyceum Spencer's Pictures.
National Amphitheatre Brennan’s Vaudeville Co.
Lyric.. Continuous Pictures.
Colonial (Nos. 1 & 2).. Continuous Pictures.
Alhambra Continuous Pictures.
Glaciarium West’s Pictures.
Victoria Continuous Pictures.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “ The Lady of the Pluck-Up.”
Her Majesty’s “ The Lyons Mail.”
Royal “ The Chocolate Soldier.”
King’s,.... “ Struck Oil.”
Repertory “Candida.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co
Glaciarium Ice Skating.
West’s Palace West’s Pictures.
Olympia Spencer’s Pictures.
Lyric, Prahran Photo Plays.
Atiiejleum Hall Nicola.
In Puccini’s essentially modern opera,
‘Madame Butterfly,” which has been the
week's event at Her Majesty’s (Sydney),
two-thirds of the music is charming in a
light and graceful fashion, with a flutter of
wings in its softer moods. The fraction left
over is commonplace. There the orchestra
twangs its fiddles on a lower plane than the
Olympic heights of perfect harmony, from
which heights Angelini’s troubadours look
down on the squeak of plain, or twopenny
melody. The present production of “But-
terfly” is handsomely trimmed in its stage
setting (an important item in this opera, as
in “Samson and Delilah”) with a wandering
moon, a well-trained flock of electric fire-
flies, and a Jap village that twinkles its
lights up to time—the sunset having been
previously shifted by the stage carpenter.
On Saturday night the performance of so-
prano Jeanne Wayda, as Mrs. Butterfly, was
a sensational success, with a few weak spots.
Wayda made a poor beginning, partly be-
cause the first act is, in its opening scene,
thin and talky, and partly because she was,
or appeared to be, nervous. But after her
magnificent rally in the rolling river of song
with which Butterfly and Pinkerton-McCor-
mack decorate the end of Act 1., Wayda
(perhaps remembering Lot’s wife) never
“LA BOHEME ”: Three Bohemians —Me.
Cormack , Scandiani and Kanffinaun —saving
and freezing in a garret at Her Majesty's
Theatre , Sydney.
looked back. Her dramatic fire, charming
personality and fine voice took the premises
and the contents thereof by storm. Tenor
John McCormack, as Pinkerton, is lost, in
the U.S. or elsewhere, during the greater part
of “Butterfly,” and with the exception of
the golden-throated duet with Wayda, gets
few opportunities. A British chronicler once
mentioned, with a quill pen, that James I.
was a “Compleat Ass.” The character of
Pinkerton fills this bill, and leaves some
donkey over; and the tenor who takes the
part in any production of “Butterfly” is
probably pleased that his character does get
lost, so that he can go out and buy himself
drinks with which to drown the sense of his
own identity. Scandiani, the Sharpless of
Saturday night’s performance, grips his high-
water mark as actor and singer. This city
might spare Dill Macky or various other
potentates, but it won’t part with Scandiani
without a tear-drop. Australian Rosina
Buckman snares a small slice of fat out of
Susuki’s part as Ministering Angel to the
love-lorn Jap lady. The feeble story of
Madame Butterfly” gives a Geisha the in-
stincts of Mrs. Grundy, but spares her the
traditional elastic-side boots and scraped-
back coiffure of that Avenging Deitv.
Wayda-Butterfly’s heathen lapse into hari-
kari is a gruesome purple patch, but it
doesn’t spill things on the carpet.
** * *
The past week at Her Majesty’s was
largely one of alarums and sudden substitu-
tions. Miss Axarine was called on at short
notice to replace Melba in “La Boheme.”
It was an invidious job, considering that at
least 98 per cent, of the audience had bought
their seats in the sure and certain hope of
a glorious evening with the star. But the
little Russian lady faced the music gal-
lantly, and grappled with it as successfully
as could be expected. Palpable nervousness
hampered her singing; on the other hand,
she looked and acted Mimi to the life.
* * * *
On Thursday Eleanora de Cisneros
handed over the role of Dalila to Miss Ran-
zenberg. The new-comer has not the voice,
the fire nor the vocal art of the great mezzo;
but her acting and appearance are eminently
satisfactory, and she invests the part with
an appropriate atmosphere of barbarism. To-
night (Thursday) “Carmen,” with de Cis-
neros in the title role, will be staged.
** * *
“Nobody’s Daughter,” in which the Plirn-
mer-Denniston Co. opened at the Palace
on Saturday night, is a somewhat crudely-
fashioned play. The joints creak loudly,
for example, when Colonel Torrens and Mrs.
Frampton tell each other how, years ago,
they loved without so much as the sanction
of a registrar; how Honora May resulted;
how they constituted themselves guardians
of Honora, and built an ornate edifice of lies
around her origin, in order to shield their
own reputations; how no trace of the old,
mad, bad passion now lurked in either of
them, both being devoted to their respective
spouses; and various other facts, which,
though ancient history to the speakers, are
essential to a proper grasp of the plot on the
part of the audience. The joints creak
some more in connection with Frampton’s
discovery of The Truth. After much indis-
creet and officious, and generally unjusti-
fiable prying, he arrives at the flamingly-
obvious conclusion that Honora’s parents
weren’t married. The average charitable
human being, having unearthed a skeleton
like that, would return it hastily to its cup-
board, double-lock the door of the receptacle
and lose the key. Not so genial, sunny-
natured, bullock-hearted old Frampton. He
attaches himself to the horror with the en-
thusiasm of a W.C.T. Unionist. Having an
aged Wowser nurse to deal with, who will
not lie even to preserve her adored charge
from the slur of illegitimacy, his unwarrant-
able inquiries are successful. These things
make the play (indeed, the situation that
arises from Frampton’s sudden appreciation
of the deception that has been practised on
him by his wife and his best friend, is the
most stirring event of the evening), but
they represent neither good art nor nature.
For the rest, there is a wealth of bright dia-
logue, and of moments calculated to bring the
tear of sympathy Jo the eye of sentimen-
tality.
* * * *
The mostly-Australian Cast is good right
through. Miss Lizette Parkes makes Hon-
ora a most graceful, human and pathetic
little maiden. Her acting has gained greatly
in ease and force in the last year. Mrs.
Brough, as Mrs. Frampton, has a part that
might have been written for her, and the
same applies to Miss Beatrice Day. Miss
Tempe Pigott gives a powerful sketch of a
female with rigid morals, but an affectionate
disposition. Harry Sweeney has a hard row
to hoe as the chauffeur-hero. He meets the
difficulty by being about one-tenth mechanic
and nine-tenths beautiful and fluent young
actor ; and the audience loves him the better
for it. Harry Plimmer and Reynolds Den-
niston comport themselves like artists, and
the other parts are well, played.
** * *
The final bars of “The Waltz Dream” are
being played, the dancers already have
their eyes on the sup-
per-room, the servitor
with the shaving-water
approaches, and the
black moment of awak-
enment is at hand —in
fact, to drop metaphor,
the Opera Co. will
shortly leave Sydney
Royal. There is yet
time for the few who
have only seen this
production seven or
eight times, to get into
double figures, but
little more.
** * *
On two more occa-
sions only, including
to-night (Thursday),
will Miss Ethel Irving,
as Stella Ballantyne,
exterminate her loathly
consort at the Criterion. On Satur-
dav she opens in “Lady Frederick,” a comedy
which, despite the notorious fact that it ran
for two years in London, is reported to be
full of merit.
** * *
.Johnson and Wells, Ethiopian comedians
from that fair, free land where they boil
colored persons for less than bogus humor,
are now at the National Amphitheatre.
The crowd likes them, so there is no oc-
casion to pursue the matter further. Maude
Mortimer, another new-comer, is a sprightly
maiden, whose turn brings a welcome dash
of gaiety into the drab life of Angus and
Robertson’s night-watchman, 100yds. down
the street. Will Sullivan is still at the Cas-
tlereagh-street institution; also, the acro-
batic Totos, Maurice Chenoweth, and a heap
more talent and beauty.
* * * -*-
“The Angel of His Dreams” will oil her
wings and fold up her halo, which by this
time has swelled to size 10, and leave the
Adelphi on Friday. The worries of “The
Fatal Wedding” are to be revived on Satur-
day, when 60 children will resurrect the Tin
Can Band.
“FAUST" AT SYDNEY
HER MAJESTY’S.
The malinie Faust amongst the giants — Mdlle.
Voluntas-Razenberg arid Edmund Burke.
Although “In the Grip of Alcohol,” at the
Lyric, is the old story retold, yet it is re-
told in such a way as to make everyone
swear off at once. A man, happy with his
family, takes one drink with some friends,
and slides headlong on the glass to perdi-
tion. He is dismissed from his office, ejected
from his home, and coffined in a padded cell.
The picture cannot fail to affect all who see
it—in some way or other. Pathe’s Gazette
tnis weeK shows some good views of the
Liverpool strikes and some better aeroplane
pictures. Between pictures, the Talk-o’-
phone renders Melba selections and saves
you the 10 guineas you had made up your
mind to spend on a box for the opera.
*- * * #
No new planets having been discovered in
“the home of the stars,” last week’s astron-
omical notes for Sydney Tivoli will serve for
this issue also. The Religious Editor, lying
on his back in the office observatory,- and
using an empty rum bottle as telescope, re-
ports that the eclipses, occupations and other
celestial phenomena are practically the same
—that is to say, Clark, in conjunction with
Hamilton, is shedding most light on the
second part, and Clarke and Mostol, who
imitate express trains with their feet, are
close up. McLallen and Carson, roller-
skaters, appear to be going a lot faster than
Halley’s' comet, which recently played a
brief season in these parts; and Harry Allis-
ter, character impersonator, is shining fairly
well with the celebrities. Another bright
in the vicinity of the Southern Cross
has been identified by the observer as the
star Bluett.
** * *
West’s Pictures people have definitely en-
tered the ranks of Australian picture makers,
and the photo-play written for the co. by
W. S. Percy will be filmed and screened
about the time this issue reaches the hand of
the public. Among other people who are
hard at work making photo-plays for the co.
is Hilliard Vox, who is turning out a little
thinv of a sporting nature. So West’s are
forming a stock company of artists of repute,
including Herbert Bentley, who used to play
Rupert of Hentzau and other big parts in
Julius Knight’s august lime-light. The ac-
tual photography is in the hands of Mr.
Frank Barratt. But the gem of the co. is a
beautiful Melbourne' girl, whose aspect is
said to eclipse that of the famous Dolly
Nicholson, the demoiselle who made the for-
tune of the American Biograph Co. as the
heroine of their plays.
** * *
The Ben Davies-Esta D’Argo season opens
at Sydney Town Hall next Saturday
A feature of the combine is Edward (Toll,
the Bohemian pianist. The artists are to be
officially received and fed by their admirers,
in the Hall aforesaid, to-morrow (Friday)
night.
** * *
Sliakspeare drops out of discussion at Her
Majesty's (Melbourne) on Friday, and on
Saturday the H. B. Irving Co. will deal
with unpoetic melodrama in the form of
“The Lyons Mail,” lately advertised in Mel-
bourne on the picture screens. Also, the
local public has received glowing accounts
from Sydney of Irving’s prowess as a charac-
ter actor in his father’s parts.
** * $
What might have been a dire calamity to
“The Chocolate Soldier,” at Melbourne
Royal, is merely a misfortune which mat-


H
The STECK Piaho conforms in every
way to the exacting demands of the most
cultivated musical taste, and it is a Piano
of exceptionally beautiful' tone quality.
For fifty years STECIC Pianos have been
made in one grade only—the very best pos-
sible. They don’t change in tone with
time. As Manufacturers of the STECK, we
stake our reputation oh its being one of
the finest Pianos possible to buy.
THE PIANOLA COMPANY
PROPY. LTD.,
357 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY
(next David Jones’).
88 RUNDLE STREET,
ADELAIDE.
252 COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE
(on The Block).
311 QUEEN STREET,
BRISBANE
(opp. Q.N. Bank).
London, Paris, Berlin
and New York.
i
I
New Shipments Of STECKS monthly
in Burl Walnut, Circassian Walnut,
Rosewood, Mahogany, Waxed Oak, Ebony
Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED,
PITT AND KING STREETS, SYDNEY.
FIRE ACCIDENT, EMPLOYERS’ LIABILITY, PLATE GLASS, Etc.
Lowest Rates Charged,
'Phone No. 236 Central.
Settlements Prompt and Equitable.
SYDNEY H. GARY, Chairman.
G. HOWARD POPE, Manager.
ters only a little. Last week Leslie Gaze
disappeared from the name part for some
unstated reason, and next day Miss O'Con-
nor retired with a sore throat. Miss
Murphy, of Maoriland. stepped into the
prima-donna’s shoes, and after a new small
Bumerli had been unsuccesfully staged at
the Wednesday matinee another understudy
(Wallace) took up the running. Wallace is
lean and dryly droll where Gaze was plump
and effusively frivolous. To people who had
seen the first principals in their parts the
difference was interesting. Miss Murphy
hasn’t the bright, flawless soprano of Miss
O’Connor, but her singing is good, and her
less retiring manner, in contrast with that of
a less presuming Bumerli, helps to har-
monise the new effect with the previous one.
The opera maintained its old level, or nearly
so. All the same, the changes of cast should
have been advertised to prevent the possi-
bility of bloodshed resulting.from argument
between parties who have seen the show-
under different conditions, and don’t know
of the alteration.
** * *
At the Princess's the serpent that tempted
Sherlock Holmes to make a miss-hit will
shuffle off its mortal coil on Friday. Ran-
dolph Bedford's drama, “The Lady of the
Pluck-Up,’' is billed for Saturday. Bed-
ford, who knows Australia as no other
dramatist Knows it, promises to bring “the
atmosphere of the Great Plains by magic to
the city,” and warm the tepid soul of tem-
perate townsfolk with a presentation of “the
rough kindliness of primitive conditions.” If
the primitive conditions and truthful types
of the Real Australia are sophisticatedly
mummed by Bedford’s Co. an expectant Mel-
bourne will call him blessed. There is hardly
anything else that he has not already been
called by his admirers and critics at one
time or other.
** * *
Sam Mayo, a comedian of great weight in
the advt., was due to make a first Austra-
lian appearance at the Opera House last
Monday. This paper, not having yet sampled
Samuel, records his advent without preju-
dice. The other turns that loom large are
Albert Rees, Sydney Bach, Miss Capitaine
(of the enchanting contour) and the two
Binns. The Binns fooling, which is very
cleverly musical towards the finish, intro-
duces touches of novelty into old business.
The tw-o men are two ancient individual
types, but the combination is unusual, and
the ingenuity of some of their mechanical
jokes would justify one of them in discard-
ing the crude absurdity of baggy pants. One
gets weary of baggy pants in musical
sketches.
** * *
Two performances of Bernard Shaw’s
“Candida” are to open the second innings
of the Repertory Theatre next week —Mon-
day and Thursday being the appointed
nights. “Candida” is hardly long enough for
even repertorian notions of a dramatic en-
tertainment, so the playlet “Makeshifts”
will follow it on each occasion. Meanwhile,
Gregan McMahon begs to remind students
of modern stage literature that the Reper-
torv . Theatre is identical with the Turn
Verein Hall, Victoria Parade, and that
coupon season tickets for the forthcoming-
series of six performances in bi-weekly in-
stalments can be obtained on bargain terms
at Oxford Chambers, or the Book Lovers’
Library. •
** * *
At the Athenaeum Hall, where Brans-
combe’s Jesters are usually located, the
Taits are about to start a season of
wizardry and vaudeville. Nicola, Prince of
Magic and Grand - Duke of Deception, will
wave his sceptre at the borrowed hat on
Saturday next, the 23rd. Nicola is a Yankee
royalty , and his illusions, his handicraft and
nis American accent are said to be wonder-
ful. Anyhow, his visit has an opportune ap-
pearance, for Melbourne has gone wizardless
for quite a long time.
*
Last Saturday’s crowd at Melbourne
Olympia '*ms refreshed by the usual heap of
fiction, and informed by the usual batch of
facts. Among the latter “The Ironworks at
Donetskey, Russia,” showed that the treat-
ment of iron ore is toilsome and somewhat
dirty. The film of “The Delayed Proposal”
was charming for its gentle fun ; while the
tale of “Nature’s Nobleman” was uplifting
for its moral views. Interesting, also, was
“When a Man Fears,” which displayed some
of those scenes of grey mornings and misty
trees invented by the dreamy Corot.
** * *
Amy. Castles, not to be out of the fashion,
was laid up with a sore throat when she
should have been trilling her farewell lays
at the Town Hall. The Tait announcement
of the song-bird’s attack of croup appeared
on Saturday morning, and the first concert
had been fixed for that night. On the Mon-
day, they couldn’t say when the two events
woiuld transpire, but the arrangement for
Amy’s flight to Europe on the 27th is appar-
ently holding good.
it- it- *
“Struck Oil” drew a great crowd to the
King’s last Saturday long before the doors
were opened—a crowd that had been mostly
unborn when the honest little Yankee drama
first came.to light with Maggie Moore as its
leading Lizzie. The play can’t be said to
live on its old identity nowadays. It could
not so long have survived the expansion of
Miss Stofel’s figure and the shrinkage of her
singing voice had it not been artistic in its
flimsy plot, cheap pathos, broad humor and
simple characterisation. It gives the John
Stofel and Lizzie every chance to be con-
vincingly lovable if they act up to their re-
sponsibilities, and it offers a scene of tragic
realism to John what time he is crazy.
Good acting makes an interesting story.
Maggie Moore and H. It. Itoberts are equally
forcible in their parts. The lady carries a
few stone more than Lizzie Stofel’s weight
for age, but her art wins all the way. Her
voice is as effective as ever for dialogue pur-
poses, and her dramatic instinct could never
have been keener than it was last Saturday.
Roberts is always growing stronger in his
performance of the genial Dutchman and the
crazed ditto. He presents a striking picture
of John returned from the dead, and the
heart of the house goes out to lnm when he
recovers his long-lost memory. For the rest
there are John Forde as the lurid old hypo-
crite of the piece, Beatrice Esmond, Charles
Brown and others who have been there be-
fore.
Wondergraph pictures, at Adelaide Town
Hall, run so far by a local syndicate, have
floated themeselves into a company, and
Manager Fin'kelstein proposes to extend
them to the other States. The various pic-
ture-shows have been strangely of one mind
lately in starring a dramatic film, “A Dead
Man's Honor.’' The Tivoli has a bill strong
and new, headed by the Spissells and Mack.
Lamberti, imitating various musical prodi-
gies, burlesques Paderewski rather savagely ;
he has now introduced Svengali’s death-
scene. Pastor and Merle are at the Tivoli,
too; also, Alexander Prince, of the organ-
like concertina. At the King's, Miss Toby
Claude heads the bill, and the First Part is
in the hands of a “Mascotte pierrot five,”
who certainly deserve to get their indivi-
dual nqmes on the programme. “The Whip”
has had a packed fortnight at the Royal,
though its mechanical effects had to be
cramped sadly to get them on. This play
will be remembered as the only one on re-
cord iri which the object of the comic lady’s
jealousy of the comic man was the “be-
trayed” secondary heroine! Also, as having
an alleged hero who is tricked by one
woman, and repairs liis ruined fortunes (by
a catch bet with an intoxicated bookmaker )
on a stable secret betrayed by another, his
horse having meanwhile to be saved by a
third female. The talk is unusually good
for this kind of play, Miss Temple getting
the best of it. Positively epigrammatic is
her remark when her age is called in ques-
tion : “In the name of the prophet, no
dates!” “The Arcadians” has now come in
for a return visit. The people of Arcadia
are mostly new, but back in London the old
faces are welcomed —poor Edwards always
excepted.
Melbourne
Theatre
Royal
Scene
Painter —
PHIL
GOATCHER.
“H. Singemoine” on a time of trial: —
It is up to every student of the bizarre in Life to
attend' a “Trial Night” at Sydney Amphitheatre.
Here, on Fridays, amateur vaudeville performers are
provided with an orchestra, a stage, and a big
audience, on the understanding that they will submit
to whatever comes their way from the front of the
house. The typical “Trial” male makes Irving
Sayles look like an artist; and the “Trial” ladies
bear about the same relation to the First Part stars
as the comic female of bellowdrama does to (say)
Ethel Irving.
Lo ! where Joe Cosh comes, heralded by the mana-
ger as “Balmain’s Greatest Singer of Laughing
Songs.” Joseph suggests an agitated tram-guard—
or, again, he might be a perturbed waiter or a
grocer’s assistant. He wears a suit of sober grey;
humor being adumbrated by a reddened nose. A
howl of execration greets him. An apple hurtles
past his head. By way of indicating professional
calm, he gnaws a fragment of the missile, and grins
wanly. Amid ominous mutterings, he begins his
song-- -consisting mostly of “ha, ha ha” and “ho ho
ho,” delivered in a prolonged scream, and with
violent contortions expressive of merriment. The
audience finds this insufferable, and says so. The
footlights are doused; in the resulting gloom the
staff is observed struggling with Joseph ; when the
radiance is born again he is gone. He has
achieved “the Bird.”
A “Balladiste” follows. She might be 16 and a
factory hand. A dogged jaw, the garish Sabbatii
costume of the working flapper, and an ashen face,
are her leading suits. In a penetrating nasal voice,
containing something of the timbre of torn calico,
she tells of one Liza who was Ruined. A sample
verse:—
“Ar! do not go in,” the old woman said,
Though ’er footsteps was ’altin’ and lame.
“Come back to your fambly, your ’ome, and your
bed,
Don’t bring your good parints to shame.”
But the Girl pushed ’er orf, with a shake of the ’ed,
And entered the ’ouse of ill-fame.
Her success is immediate and iminense, for the
audience is moved. What is the psychology of this
fervent interest which the poorest classes of play-
goers always display in seductions? The middling
and wealthy classes haven’t got it to anything like
the same degree. Possibly it arises from the fact
that the peril of this particular social tragedy is
greater in the case of families which can’t give their
daughters many of the joys of life, and are unable
to hedge them with governesses, chaperons and all
the other walls which wealthy people build round
their girls’ virtue. Anyhow, there the phenomenon
is.
A stout young woman supplies some spicy re-
marks in a hurried yell; two dirty children dance
and sing with horrible precocity; all are received
with rapture.
These shows indicate that Sydney has a big public
for anything that is truly hideous —hideous in senti-
ment, physical conformation, art or humor. The
performer has to be rotten indeed before the Amphi.
patrons turns their thumbs down. It is a pity,
This instiution might do a public service by dis-
couraging stage-struck incompetents in large gangs
every week ; actually its pernicious effect is to make
most of these curses more avid for the limelight, and
more sickeninglv self-satisfied than before.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“Star”: The reminiscences of Seymour Hicks are
put up in book-form, and the volume is a useful
example of a common habit of building one’s house
with other people's bricks. Hicks had at one time
the reputation of being the Pirate King of the pro-
fession. He took the gag from any man’s mouth,
and no joke was so sacred as to be safe from Sey-
mour. Any Performance of his was a sort of
dramatic patchwork quilt, made up of the bright
pieces of < other comedians. Well, all the jokes Sey-
mour Hicks gathered during a long life, he has put
into a book, and he dubs them reminiscences. He
does not include the first chapter of Genesis and
“The Seven Ages,” but everything else Seymour
could remember is there. The sub-title should be
“Hicks Facet.”
“Cassandra”: Taits’ new picture theatre, just got
under weigh in Flinders-street, Melbourne, adjoining
Hall and Welch’s, and opposite Prince’s Bridge
railway station, seems to be about the best site, for
its purpose, that could' have been selected. All
suburban trains discharge passengers practically at
the doors, likewise all south suburban trams. Rich-
mond trams pass the door, as likewise those of Carl-
ton and North Fitzroy. while all others flit past
within a block’s length. Methinks, however, the
beginning of the end can’t be far off as regards
picture-show promoters. A limited population must
inevitably get the tired feeling, and that before long.
History has a bad knack of repeating itself. Tons
of money were swallowed; up, and lost, in the roller-
skating business 20-odd years ago. Same with cyelo-
ramas. Even though all the trams in creation were
to pass the door every half-minute, the picture-
show will nerish when its time comes, and I expect
that time early next year. Also, 1 am betting that
the interval between the obvious beginnings of decay
and the imperishable slump will be just about a
month.
“Harrison O.”: Louis Esson’s most ambitious
dramatic effort, which is to be staged by McMahon
in connection with his Melbourne Repertory Theatre
before the end of the year, is a comedy of Austra-
lian politics, “The Time Is Not Yet Ripe.” Esson,
while editing a news rag at Bathurst, came in contact
with several typical “Liberal” politicians, who,
recognising that procrastination is the thief of pro-
gress, were always certain that the time for reform
was not “opportune.” The chief character in Esson’s
play is a Prime Minister, sketched on Spruce Myth
lines, who alleges that he is simply bursting to re-
form things—when the time is “ripe.”
London dramatic season was just ended at latest
mail advices. The Daily Mail, reviewing it, says
it has been a “commercial success” on the whole.
One theatre made a profit of £35,000. Another,
close by, lost £24,000. A certain syndicate dropped
£30,000. The season was remarkable for the un-
usual number of adaptations of foreign plays. Then
Shakspeare ran right through at Her Majesty’s,
where the Trees and the Bourchiers —a powerful
combination —have joined forces. The theatre will
resume with another Shakspearian revival —“Mac-
beth.” It was not a good year for British authors —
29 of their plays produced 16 failures. “But,” adds
the Daily Mail, “fortunately the losses fell on men
outside the theatres who found the money and con-
cealed their identity behind managers.” There is a
good deal of this sort of speculating in plays in
London, and sometimes the speculator makes a big
hit and an immense profit. Oscar Asche has made
one of the biggest scores of the season with “Kis-
met,” which is still drawing packed houses in spite
of the heat-wave. Among the frosts of the season
were Hall Caine’s “Bishop’s Son” (six nights),
Cyril Maude’s “One of the Duke’s,” “The Green
Elephant,” “Half a Crown,” and “Above Suspicion”
at the Haymarket. The last-named was quickly con-
victed and executed.
The first of Bernard Shaw’s comedies to run for
100 consecutive nights is “Fanny’s First Play,”
which Lillah McCarthy introduced to London. The
size of the house —the Little Theatre —seems to ex-
plain the comparatively great success of G.B.S. in
tliis instance, anart from the fact that “Fanny’s
First” is one of his most humorous works. Old and
new admirers of the author are sufficiently numerous
to keep it going. The audiences are almost wholly
sympathetic, and the actors, being so close to them,
can make every point in the dialogue without un-
natural effort. There i? no chance for a comedy of
words, rather than action, to gain popularity in a
large theatre where it loses half its claim to even
educated appreciation, and where, by the way, the
expenses of rent and upkeep are heavy.
An energetic young Australian is Mary Fitz-
maurice Gill. She appcareiJ in leg. drama (“The
Sign of the Gross,” etc.), and later in leg.
comedy—as an ornament of “Our Miss Gibbs.” In
her spare time she writes short stories, and a collec-
tion of them is soon to be published in book-form.
In some more spare time she has composed a batch of
pleasing songs, yet she isn’t exactly a spare lady,
being rather nicely rounded than otherwise.
“Waif” (London) : Haddon Chambers comes again
with “Passers-By” (produced at Wyndham’s). It
hasn’t a motive. Haddon smartly tricks you into
thinking he’s out to preach a sermon, then blows the
text to perdition. Character stuff saves the hash,
likewise good acting, but the piece isn’t much. There
are four acts without change of scene. Peter Waver-
ton, a rich young bachelor, with rooms in Piccadilly,
has loved, effectively, his sister’s governess. She.
being sacked, has gone seamstressing and increasing
the population. He, corrupted by his man-servant,
takes to entertaining cabmen and dead-beats, and,
last, but not least, he takes in Margaret, a crushed
woman with a cough that would shake a lion to
pieces. Margaret was wound up to go as far as
his front door, and was threatening to tarnish the
brass knocker with her dead body. Of course, Peter
is engaged to a young smart-setter, else there couldn’t
be four acts. Margaret stays. Cabmen and deadbeats
come and go, likewise the fiancee. Then the child,
who is supposed to be the consequence of sin, takes
the floor, and of course Peter marries the perambu-
lating Cough. Peter’s former best girl accepts
“the chuck” philosophically. “The chuck” is her
own expression, and as it is her own chuck, I sup-
pose she has a right to call it by any name she
pleases.
Archibald T. Strong, Melbourne Herald’s literary
coroner, is to play the strong, simple parson hero in
the forthcoming production of Shaw’s “Candida” in
Melbourne.
According to a blatant English showman who ran
a Punch and Judy theatre, or something, at Mosman’s
Bay (N.S.W.) last summer, this is a country “where
nobody works except the income-tax collector.” The
force of the wandering showman’s essay on “The
Land of the Loafer” lies in the allegation that in-
comes grow apace in Australia like ill weeds. They
are not sown or planted. The cash tree springs up
naturally all over the place, and Government agents
are kept busily engaged in plucking berries off its
luxuriant growth. Good old Australia! The Para-
dise of the Non-working Man !
“Busk”: Tom -Kingston was one of the best Eng-
lish leading men in the second line. He would have
been in the first but for his husky voice. He was
always somewhat delicate. He took violent exer-
cise, the kind of thing which made the tenderfoot
Roosevelt, and killed that other tenderfoot, Ilope-
toun. The same thing is said to have helped in
slaying Dickens. Kingston would strain his slim
athletic powers on the bike, with the delusion that
he was putting on muscle, yet he remained as thin
as an alibi. One paper before me says his nanv
was Shipwright, another, Johnston. I believe it
was Johnston. [A Bulletin man here interposes to
say that he went to school with Thomas Kingston,
and that his name certainly was Shipwright.
Besides, a man with his face couldn’t be
Johnston.] His support of Nance O’Neil and
Tittell Brune was highly appreciated by both those
artists. Even in such an unfit part as Macbeth he
was beyond the creditable, and his Parsifal, in the
Rev. Tavlor’s Australian version, created a full em-
bodiment. His Sherlock Holmes, however, was not
better than Desmond’s, and sank below that of Cuyler
Hastings by much. In comedv I did not think
Kingston so much at ease with “Brewster’s Millions”'
as in serious parts. Yet he was himself a very lucky
speculator, which is not a very common experience-
in the case of a religious crank, and in his latei-
da.ys that term fairly described Kingston. “Brew-
ster’s Millions” ought to have appealed to him.
“Billy T.”: The pathological experts in “The
Speckled Band” would have ruined Conan Doyle’s
play if they had discovered evidences of snakebite
on Dr. Primsby Rylott’s miserable victims, and that,
no doubt, is why they overlook the obvious. The
particular breed of serpent to which the speckled
band belongs is not hinted at, but it is Indian, and
even in India snakes do not kill with the dramatic
suddenness of a thunderbolt, nor do they bite with-
out puncture. The girl victim dies within a few
seconds, and Rylott expires with the same velocity.
The speckled band leaves no teeth-marks that a
curious medical gent seeking for unexpected causes
can light upon. Quite a lot of Sherlock Holmes’s
mysteries depend for their effect more upon the
simplicity of the reader than the preternatural
sagacity of Sherlock.
“Propstick”: It had to come. A budding news-
paper man genius discovers that 11. B. Irving is
better than his father. Reminds me of Oxenford
When appointed critic to the London Times, he wrote
something really critical on Fletcher or somebody.
The somebody called on Editor Delane. Said Delane
to Oxenford: “I have no doubt that what you wrote
is true, but I can’t be bothered with these follows.”
Oxenford did not bother him again.
Hetty Holroyd, coming back to Australia as
Madame Esta D’Argo,” finds it necessary to explain
the change of name. The Italians, she says, are very
poor on an initial H, and Esta is their nearest to
her own Christian name. “And D’Argo ?” “The
Italian name of a supporter of mine,” is the only
explanation the lady gives of that. It is uncom-
monly like “Dago,” anyway.
Coming to Australia with Hilda Spong is the
American drama, “Every Woman.” The author’s;
death happened a few days before the play’s first ap-
pearance, and the corpse formed a valuable ad. Plot
and dialogue deal with stage “morality” and “im-
morality” in a sermonic spirit, and Noo York is;
said to be accepting the spicy drivel for dogma.
Died in New York lately, after a two months”
struggle against public indifference, “Our Miss
Gibbs,” better known as “the greatest musical suc-
cess of the century.” Also perished, after a few
days’ season, the bizarre Sherlock Holmes’ drama,
“The Speckled Band.” The droll absurd,tics of “The
Band” angered New York, and drove some of the
critics to a shrill pitch of reproach.
“0.K.”: The storms of contention that rage around
11. B. Irving recall the hurricanes that whistled
through the father —without doing him any harm,
apparently. When he played Macbeth, shortly after
his Hamlet success, the Athenaeum said: “His slow
pronunciation, and his indescribable elongation of
syllables, bring the whole performance near bur-
lesque. Mr. Irving has youth, intelligence, ambition,
zeal and resolution, but he has vices of style which
have strengthened with the actor’s successes, and, like
all weeds of ill growth, have obtained excessive de-
velopment. They will, if not checked, end by ruin-
ing his career.” And the Times said of his
Othello: “The movements of his body are as the
movements of his voice; so slow as "to excite the
impatience, or so quick as almost to excite the
laughter, of the spectator.” And yet Henry
continued to flourish. Instead of killing his career,
liis peculiarities made him a popular success, by fas-
cinating many people. It suggests once more that
the world doesn’t want the perfect actor; it prefers
one with a few kinks that it can hang its afternoon-
tea talk upon.
“R.E.”: Eva Mudge, of the National Amphitheatre,
who doesn’t take quite as long to dress as the or-
dinary woman, was the first motoress in America.
She made her public debut on the box-seat at the
first automobile show of America, held at Madiso.n*
Square Gardens, N’York, in 1900, when she had,
passenger, millionaire J. J. Astor.
The fete for the Actors’ Orphanage in Lon dory was* 1
a big thing this year. Cyril Maude ran a scream ing;-
burlesque of the bellowdrama ; Bourchier ran a dog-
show, with Alexander, Lily Elsie and Gertie Mi Har-
as judges. Hawtrey ran a Punch and Judy, Pauline-
Chase a shooting-gallery, Grossmith and Payne an.
Eastern village, Wilkie Bard and Robey a “pre-
historic” music-hall. Marie Lohr was at the flower-
stall. Mrs. Asche made dolls, and Phyllis Dare soldi:
them. Beatrice Fcrrar had a genuine pie-stall ; Maudi'
Allan blacked boots. Visitors were rooked for every-
thing they possessed (the veteran Phyllis Broughton,
alone took in £l5O over a hat-trimming competi-
tion), and the loot ran into thousands.
REAL GEESE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A novel and interesting feature of this production
will be a flock' of trained geese, introduced in one
of the rural scenes. —Melbourne theatrical gossip.
A novel feature. ’Tis not so.
In recent years they’ve turned ’em loose
Upon the stage to come and go.
More than the well-stocked farmyards know,
And comic opera still makes use
Of any pert, engaging goose.
I’ve watched a goose play Juliet,
And goosey Romeos increase.
Then why should these producers fret
The barnyard biped now to get?
If geese are pros., then, in this piece,
Why not let pros, appear as geese?
VICTORIA.
SILAS SNELL.


Ħ
“Orient” Sac Suits
to Measure 63-
In this illustration you see the style of our “Orient” 63/- Sac
Suit to Measure, which may be had in any color or design re-
quired. Tweeds of all shades in Greens, Browns, Bronzes and Blue
with Fancy Stripes are very popular, and obtainable in our Made
to Measure Suit at 63/-. Also, we specialise in all shades of
Grey Flannel Suitings and Bough Marine Indigo Serge at the
same price.
Now for a word about the cut. the make and the quality of
our 63/- Sac Suit to measure. They are cut and tailored by
experts, perfect in fit, and possessing the highest characteristics of
quality and finish. In fact, each Suit leaves us with our guarantee
of satisfaction, or your money refunded.
Price 63/-
WE PAY CARRIAGE
On Men’s Clothing to any part of the Commonwealth.
DAVID JONES LTD.,
Opp. G.P.O, SYDNEY.
ALWAYS RECOMMEND IT.
“On a number of occasions during the past three
years I have used Chamberlain’s Colic, Cholera and
Diarrhoea Remedy, and cannot speak too highly of it
for giving ease and relief,” says Mr. J. H. Bicker-
staff, of Napier, N.Z. “I might also mention having
recommended it to customers who were equally well
pleased with results. For pains in the stomach,
diarrhoea and dysentery there is nothing equal to
Chamberlain’s Colic, Cholera and Diarrhoea Re-
medy.”*
Join the Army
Of those who have tested the wonderful remedial
virtues of Dr. Sheldon’s Magnetic Liniment. It gives
speedy relief whenever applied to a burn, blister,
bruise, or a pain or sore of any nature. Price,
Is. 6d. and 3s.*
Next to the actual Coronation cerenjpny, the most
momentous happening in the annals of the hritisn
Throne is the Investiture of the Prince of W ales, tna
takes place in the little city of Carnarvon, in Wales.
Here, on July 13 last, our present heir to the lhK®
was invested with all the feudal circumstance tn»
time has sanctified. The official luncheon-a magn
ficent banquet—was attended by representatives
all the crowned heads of Europe, and quaint toas
that have come down with tradition were honorw.
It is worthy of remark that the only Whisky serv
at this official luncheon was Watson s No. 10, grea
tribute to its work could not be paid.*
SOCIETY
The yarn of the ticket-checker: —-
It isn’t the people that worry us; it’s the hours
and the long-continued strain. There are 60 gates at
this Melbourne Central station, and its average of
150,000 passengers a day make it the busiest station
in the world. Yes, that’s a fact. Those 60 gates
are all in use Only on
special occasions; usually
from a dozen to 30 are
open. During the regular
morning and evening
rushes each of us has to
examine up to 3000 tic-
kets per hour. A good
many tickets have to be
nipped, but many of the
passengers we know bv
sight, and can “pass” in
safety; others
we know, and
that’s why we
look at their
tickets hard.
The regulars
don’t give
much trouble,
though ; nor
does Bill
Backblocks.
He isn’t in a
hurry, and, if
there is any-
thing irregular
about his tic-
ket, Jie’ll
cheerfully wait
till the rush is
over. The
worst trouble
is the woman
who mistakes
herself for a
lady. She
never has her ticket
ready, and she’s deaf when
asked to stand aside to
let others go by. Often
she can’t find the “lost”
ticket, and has to go to
the window and buy one.
Still, it’s not the people
—it's the hours that get
us down. From 5.30 in
the morning till 1.30
p.m., and then again
from 4.30 to 8.30, is one shift. Another runs
from 9 a.m. to 11.30 p.m., with two hours
off for meals; another from 10 a.m. to
11.30 p.m., and so on. We get time off
when a slack season comes—which is never
nowadays—or time and a-quarter after eight hours,
which isn’t enough to discourage overtime. And,
anyhow, the habit of working men 14 and 15 hours
a day, even if they were paid double rates for over-
time, isn’t the correct thing, especially when we’re
sometimes called up at uncivilised hours to go and
do fog signalling.
The Law in Victoria was lately con-
strained to tell one of its officers that, though
he was a conscientious person who had
faithfully carried out his duty, it would
have been better for everybody concerned if
he had been otherwise. The trouble arose
over a bit of land in Richmond, once owned
by Henry Major, who took up an allotment
on the Golden Shore 57 years ago, no less.
Major’s son has presumably held the block
ever since, but of late years he has ceased
to interest himself in it, and as there were
overdue rates amounting to £4 13s. the local
council took stock of the matter. It found
that the land was still in the name of Henry
Major, deceased, so it got from the County
Court an order for substituted service and a
decree for the sale of the lot or messuage,
and sold the parcel to Robert and Alfred
Anderson, who owned contiguous blocks, for
£7O. The County Court registrar conveyed
the land to them, and everything looked
normal, but when the purchasers sought to
have the area brought under the Act the
Commissioner opined that the County Court
had nothing to do with the matter, the de-
cree for sale was ineffectual, and the order
for substituted service was bad Three
Supreme Court Judges backed him up, with
regret—also with costs. So the position ap-
pears to be that Henry Major, very much
deceased, still owns the land in Heaven ; the
Richmond Council has got its £4 13s. of
rates and £65 7s. which it apparently ought
to have paid to the dead man, but which it
doesn’t know now what to do with ; and the
Andersons are out of pocket £7O, plus costs.
Heaven knows how the matter is going to be
sorted out. Three Judges having decided
that the order for substituted service on
Henry- Major was bad in law, that person
will apparently have to keep on owning the
land to all eternity, while overdue rates will
accumulate until they finally swamp the
municipality, the State and even the Com-
monwealth.
Though only 13 years old, the s.s. Papanui.
which was much in evidence of late, has had
a chequered career, and its life has been
somewhat crowded with incident. It was
wrecked on the Tasmanian coast, and had
most of its bottom torn out. Then it lay-
in the Victoria Dock, Melbourne, for months,
till the owners sold it by auction. Repaired
temporarily, it was taken to sea by a crew
of Filipinos, in an allegedly unseaworthy con-
dition, and against the Marine Board’s
orders, and navigated to Nagasaki. Repaired
some, more there, it returned to Australia
and took a cargo of Coronators Londou-
wards, but in the Red Sea something went
amiss, and it had to rush into Perim to get
its boilers puttied up and its engines sol-
dered. In London the owners tried to get a
cargo of cement to bring out, but the ship-
ping ring blocked them. Then the Papanui
gathered in a squad of immigrants, and now
the cable tells that the marine sensation-
monger has burnt herself to a cinder at St.
Helena, together with her cargo, valued at
£140,000 sterling. During most of her career
the Papanui was a good ooat to have nothing
to do with as often as possible.
SOUND FINANCE.
THE H ONEYMOONER: “Fred has given
me a banking
account. He
banks at the
Consolidated,
but I shall
bank at the
Capricornian.
Its larger , and
must hold ever
so much more.”
The usual untidy demoiselle with the sloppy
narrative fell into Melbourne’s central police
office about 2 o’clock the other morning, and
breathlessly unbosomed herself to a scornful
squad of ’tecs and others. She had been
proceeding placidly homewards, she said,
when two men in a sulky drove up alongside,
seized and gagged her, and straightway con-
veyed her to Brighton, where she was
humped to a vacant allotment and violently
assaulted, then left to walk back to town.
Though somewhat disordered, she was hardly
CONCLUSIVE.
BEERHOUXD
DAN (earn-
estly): “Is
it true, Hen-
house., that
yer picked up
’arfer quid
this morning?
HENHOUSE SAM (bitterly): “Is it true I
picked up ’arfer quid? Ain’t I sober?"
sufficiently so for such an experience, so the.
Law winked to itself, and turned a coupl-e of
its agents on to the job, and, after they had
extracted the narrative again, separately, it
began to show discrepancies in the middle,
and to sag at the ends. Finally, after the
pump had been worked for a good while, the
pleasing victim confessed that it was all a
fairy tale —all except the two men. She
had communed with two men early the pre-
vious evening in a strictly proper manner —
the rest was imagination, or the result of a
course of London Journal. As the girl had
apparently no relatives or other belongings,
she was persuaded for the good of her health
to place herself under the care of a “suitable
person” for a space. “Suitable person” is a
vague term, but doubtless it is all right.
The Young Australian National Party
has got as far as its first Conference —or,
rather, is just about to get there. The
Y.A.N.P. will confer at the Assembly Hall,
Collins-street, Melbourne, on the sth, 6th
and 7th of October —the curtain rising at
8 p.m. punctually every evening. A patriotic
attempt “to Unify, Simplify and Purify the
Government of Australia” is not a move-
ment that could be planned in a hurry, so
the first business of the leading conspirators
will be to reorganise the precocious party
and look for flaws in its platform. The in-
evitable sordid question of Cash and How
to Raise It involves the suggestion of a
Young Australia newspaper. _ A party that
lacks ready oof, or has no visible means to
keep up the supply of nourishment, is a
house built upon sand. The Y.A.N.P. must
have an unpretentious of its own, like
any other missionary society. You can’t
unify, purify and simplify the Government
by nserely preaching the gospel in Assembly
Halls at long intervals. On the other hand,
a little newspaper is a dangerous thing un-
less it is loyally supported, loyalty in such
matters needing to be secured by subscrip-
tions in advance. Probably the political
purists could not do better for the Cause
than by privately floating the party as a
fortnightly gazette and co-operative adver-
tising company (Limited). Thus might it
make the Policy its Profit and push it to
the Commonwealth’s advantage.
“C.” : Police-Magistrate Shropshire (Vic.)
innocently asked in a slander case at
Echuca (the one where the fireman was
charged with pausing to hug while on his
way to a fire) whether “cuddling” will in-
clude the embrace of the waltz. No; it ought
to, but waltzing has degenerated. Nowadays,
it is a polite teetotum exercise; not as when
Byron wrote: —
Hot from the hands promiscuously applied
Round the slight waist, or down the glowing side.
To-day, alas! one may waltz with 12'damsels
in an evening and merely be saddened by 12
lost opportunities.
“P.S.British and other foreign archi-
tects are barracking to have the oversea
architectural societies included among the
adjudicators of the designs for the Federal
Capital, and S. M. Plekald, true to its import-
ing instincts, reckons that “it (the foreigners’
claim) will be upheld by public opinion gen-
erally.” Well, perhaps it will, but before
Public Opinion does anything rash, it might
profitably mount its motor-car and take a
look through Sydney. Then Public Opinion
will be able to see exactly what the imported
city-builder has done, and what, the local
city-builder has to perform in consequence.
Public Opinion will then see whole blocks of
insanitary, jerry-built hovels being yanked
down; it will behold narrow streets being
made broad; and it will perceive (all this
through whirling dust and the objurgations
of the inconvenienced populace) crooked
streets being made straight—and if Public
Opinion could only view the bill for these
operations at the same time, it would prob-
ably gasp. Public Opinion, during its tour,
will furthermore become cognisant of other
crooked streets that want straightening, and
other narrow streets that require broadening,
and more whole blocks of alleged houses that
should be demolished; but this work
can’t be done just yet, because the expense
A PARADOX.
THE M AID: “Out? 'Ow d'yoo know Miss
Lottie's out?”
THE BOY: “'Cause I just showed Mister
Flickett in.”
would scare seven years’ growth out <>f
Rockefeller. And having remembered that
all this demolition and dust and smash and
broadening and straightening is rendered
necessary by the crass ignorance of the im-
ported city-builder in making an unholy
botch of Sydney in its infancy. Public
Opinion may perhaps feel that it worjd hk"
to keep an eye on its own Federal Capital
job.
VANISHED MARY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There’s a missing Melbourne spinster
Whom the Melbourne “D’s” are seeking ;
But they can’t strike up against her —
In a vulgar way of speaking.
Be she truly dead and planted,
They would fain learn where her grave is ;
She is sadly, sorely wanted,
Is the vanished Mary Davies.
Gruesome questions are debated
By excited folks and placid:
Has poor Mary been cremated,
Or consumed by burning acid?
Did she disappear in pieces?
Was she melted down to gravies?
Oh, the haze of doubt increases
Round the quest for Mary Davies.
Was she sick, as is asserted ?
Did the doctor who attended
Say the things ’tis said he blurted
Re the way the trouble ended?
If the lady’s youthful lover
An imaginative knave is,
The police may yet discover
The retreat of Mary Davies.
They have found in sundry places
Certain “clues” that proved delusive;
Now they muse with frowning faces,
For the truth is so elusive
In the “proofs” they are collating.
But the doctor calm and suave is,
Whilst the coroner sits waiting
For the corse of Mary Davies.
Time is chanting as he passes—-
“Lo ! your webs of fate are woven ;
Some are cut down like the grasses
And then cast into the oven ;
Bill lies rotting in the mallee,
Ben beneath the bounding wave.is.”
And an echo from the valley
Answers “Where is Mary Davies?”
VICTORIA.
O.K.
THE BLUE TERROR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Regulation is called the Blue Terror, because
the formal notice of the charge against the officer
concerned is printed on blue paper.— Federal Public
Service Commissioner.
Sweetheart, I love the color blue ;
It is the color of your eyes,
Or like unstained September skies
Where Heaven’s rays come dancing through
For me and you.
There is no more delicious hue
Than that deep azure, dear, which lies
In mountain lakes at morning-rise,
When the glad sun leans kissing to
The trembling dew.
Ah, were I but a poet true!
I’d... what? A letter?... “Please advise..
Sub-section 40...” Blank my eyes!
And blank and dash and dot-dash too
That color blue!
VICTORIA.
C.


SUHLICB7
NO. 87. GUARANTEED UNDER THE
'PURE FOOD ACT. 1908,"
BY LEVER BROTHERS LIMITED,
SYDNEY, N.S.W. No. 57.
Xl 0,0 00,000
r tabletsof SunV\
light Soap are\\
sold every week
this is the high- >
est possible proof
that Sunlight
Soap comes up
to expecta-
A SLUGGISH CIRCULATION, begotten of seden-
tary liabits, leads to congestion of the brain, liver
and other organs. The best remedy for this unde-
sirable state of affairs is to stimulate the activity of
the whole bodily economy by taking a wineglassful
of “HUNYADI JANOS” natural aperient water every
morning.*
Wild s Hairdressing Rooms, 30 Upstairs,
Sydney Arcade, George and King Streets, Sydney, is
the proper place to go if you want the best of atten-
tion. Electric head and face massage done in the
latest American style. Hours of business: 8.30 to
6.30 ; Saturday close at 1 o’clock.*
H
NO LIGHTER, NO BETTER
SUMMER UNDERWEAR.
'ihese Undershirts and Trunks are made from Madras Cot-
& Summer” “ m<>l ' e Suitable
The small cord pattern gives them a good appearance
not helßS t 0 SWatbe the body with air * and they are
niiHnfnn°'!r,a he^ C ° at buttons down the front, to facilitate
putting on and the cool, trunk-length pants!
Price 4/- each.
UNDERSHIRTS or TRUNKS. Postage 4d. extra each Garment.
Please send Chest and Waist Measurements when ordering by post.
PEAPES & CO., Ltd.,
“ Men’s
Outfitters,”
309-311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Apparently nothing less than an amending
Act of Parliament, specially to meet the case,
will prevent the fool honorarium of Victoria
from showing his sympathy with the adul-
terating milk-vendors. Only a few weeks
ago a Melbourne dealer, whose seven previous
convictions had cost him £3O, was handed an
eighth penalty amounting to £5O. and the cir-
cumstance was ordered to be published. Yet
last week the same man was up again for the
same thing, and this time the Court let him
off with a £lO fine. So he is now on the down-
grade, and, if he continues his unlawful
course, he may expect to get the penalty re-
duced to £5, and then to nothing, and after
that the Court will declare a dividend when
it meets him. The case seems rather to be
one that calls for gaol with the indeterminate
sentence. That sentence was intended to
meet the case of inveterate offenders, and if
a person who has been convicted nine times
of an offence which may be summarised as
wilful murder of infants for profit, isn’t “in-
veterate,” it would be interesting to know
who is.
* * * *
“Julep”: The pub-killer in Melbourne
strikes for high game. There was the false
alarm over Young and Jackson’s. I was
amazed to-day by seeing a notice on the
Baths Hotel, in the heart of Bourke-street,
that it had lost its job. Business is trans-
ferred to the Bull and Mouth. The Baths
Hotel, a fine three-storey edifice, was one of
Hosie’s. It is between the Bull and Moutli
and Royal Arcade, and near the site of Mel-
bourne’s first theatre, opened in 1841. Ilosie
began about half a century ago with a little
pie-shop next the Royal Arcade. Sold out
to Duncan, and took big premises, now
Rubira’s. From these Ilosie went to the
Baths Hotel, with Turkish baths. Sold this
to Barbeta, and went to the corner of Flin-
ders and Elizabeth, still called Hosie’s Hotel.
There is not much doubt that an equally-
profitable business can be found for the
Baths Hotel, but there is not the privilege of
John Cleeland, who transferred the Albion
business to the luxuriously-appointed cellar,
and has a music shop on the ground floor,
with much else overhead. The De-License
Board has knocked out 400 Victorian
drinkeries in four years.
A LUCKLESS SYMBOL.
COCKER J OHNS: “ That erbout horseshoes
bringin' luck ain't fair dinkum , if yer ask
me. I picked one up yes'day afternoon. ”
M ADGE: “An what 'appened?"
COCKER JOHNS: “ Lars' night I got a job."
A Strathfield (Sydney) man returned
home the other night and found £5O worth
of goods missing, and the following literature
in its place: “Sorry I had to relieve you of
your jewellery—Bill Sykes.” The Strath-
field man admits the joke was on him, but
he is holding on to that humorous missive,
and he reckons when it turns up in Court
and convicts B. Sykes on his handwriting,
the joke will be on B. Sykes. And the
Sykes who makes evidence against himself in
the shape of handwriting, is clumsy enough
to deserve the joke.
THE PRIDE OF THE FAMILY.
DAD: “ Now , 7 don't see why your mum shouldn't have a turn-out like that."
“Tiaka” : Was speaking to Meri Makarini
the other day re the pakeha “innovation” of
paper-bag cooking. Meri said that she
would like to see
the demonstration,
and I made ar-
rangements accord-
ingly. Meri looked
on stolidly for a
while, and then
ejaculated, “He Icai
takai” (food which
is parcelled). Then
I remembered the
culinary art of
Henare in the days
when the Icereru
(wood - pigeons)
were as numerous
as Wowsers are to-
day. He would
knead to the de-
sired consistency a
fistful of clay, wrap
up the bird in it
until it looked like
a muddy dumpling,
and bung it into
the centre of a hot
fire. When half-
cooked (experience
taught when tha t
was) it was raked
out of the embers
(mind, I am speak-
ing of bush excur-
sions ), and carried
about the hills un-
til the luncheon
bell sounded. The
heat remained in
“the dish” long
enough to complete
the cooking. Then
the clay was peeled
off, and with it
came the feathers,
and the bird was
as clean as a
scalded pig. I never
saw Henare’s nose
(figuratively speak-
ing) turn up at the
dish. Neither did
mine. Again, the
Maori haangi, or
copper-Maori, which consists of a hole
in the ground filled with hot stones
upon which the fish, spuds. shark,
kumara, enemy or mother-in-law is placed,
was in vogue in Moaland long before Cap-
tain Cook’s grandfather had cut his first
teeth. The wet matting which is placed
over the whole and then smothered with
damp earth imprisons the steam and the
juices of the delicacies.
* * * •
“Vagabond”: All this clamorous erf, for
kilts by the MacStralians is getting a whole
lot wearisome. I want to know if any of
these rabid Hielanders wear ’em as a usual
thing. Do they go to the office in ’em? Do
they gird an apron over the kilt and weigh
out the currants in the grocery? Do they
deck themselves in kilts when they trot their
bonnie Jean tae kirk? If not, why not?
You would think that life wasn’t worth
living without petticoats, by the way they
talk. “What is Home without a Kilt?”
might be the permanent motto, tacked up in
the parlor; “Death before Dishonor or
Trousers” their battle slogan : and “Tim Old
Guard Dies, but Never surrenders its Short
Skirt” their epitaph. I’m surprised that
O’Stralians don’t raise an Irish whoop and
demand that their regiment should fall in for
drill in the national costume of knee breeches,
tail coat, round hat with clay “caubeen”
stuck in the band, and shillelah. Then the
Bullstralians would appear in their cartoon
and stage outfit, with top boots, flowered
vest and all complete. The Francstralians
could dress like the Three Musketeers, and
the Dagos tralians turn out as toreadors or
brigands, and smell of garlic. New York-
stralians, if there are any, could wear a
dollar bill and a wild cat. And then the
army would be complete. It would include
everybody save the Australians.
In a recent issue of Melbourne Age ap-
peared a big, self-complacent heading:
“Crime in Victoria! A Large Decrease!
Interesting Statistics!” The figures set
forth that in 1881 the arrests in Victoria
numbered 37,638, while, in 1910, despite the
growth of population, there were only 20,650.
And in another issue during the same week
the paper mentioned that the disgusting-
offence of destroying ladies’ dresses with
vitriol or acid is becoming rather conumm
in Melbourne, and the police have failed to
capture any of the offenders. The Melbourne
police hardly capture anybody these days.
They can’t even arrest the public eye. It is
necessary to distinguish between a decrease
of crime and an increase in the imbecility of
the bobby establishment. They both tend to
empty the gaols, but there the resemblance
stops.
* * * *
A Melbourne character with an alleged
cure for drunkenness is rounding up Aus-
tralia’s chronics per circular. Here is a
fragment:—
Come, all ye weary drunks, come unto me!
I guarantee a cure—for a guinea fee.
Come with your reeking breath, bleary eves and
jowls of death —
Come and be cured !
Roll up, ye swinish sots —fall into line !
Send in your postal notes—bacchanalian swine!
If you are suff’ring hell, come to me— l’ll make you
well!
Come, tosspots, come!
Line up, O mellow ones! hysterical and grave,
I can eradicate your all-absorbing crave,
Let’s see your guinea first —or go to Hell and slake
your thirst!
Dropsic, drivelling drunks!
If that doesn’t bring in business the old
English sonnet has outlived its usefulness.
Dear Bulletin, —N.S.W. State Premier
McGowen has been gushing to his inter-
viewers about his British experiences, and
has fixed among other things on the favorite
old gag about tbe “green lanes”: —
We hear them talk of the green lanes andl
beautiful hills, but what all this really means can-
not be adequately realised unless one has had the
opportunity, as 1 had, of seeing the country in the
fulness of its beauty.
Also, one requires Premier Jim’s abounding
faith, and his town-bred ignorance of the
wasteful farming indicated by the green
lanes, and the rank-growing hedgerows that
go with them. If Premier Jim had read
Rider Haggard’s just-published book, “Rural
Denmark,” and its disclosures of the state
of things in Rural Britain, his admiration
would b r very much qualified. The land of
the British islands is no longer a source of
livelihood, but a play-ground for the people
who live on it. Even the territorial aristo-
crat, who entertains house-parties in his big
country house and brags about his great
estate, feeds his guests on Danish butter,
Dutch cheese, Australian dour and, possibly,
Argentine beef. If he manages to get enougii
milk, fruit and vegetables from the home-
farm to supply the house he does well. His
income is derived from foreign investments,
and the only thing for which he values his
estate is the sporting privileges it gives him.
He is quite content if the rents and the pro-
ceeds of the sales of game, etc., and possibly
the rents of the house and the shooting when
he is away, cover the outlay. Naturally, lie
is not fond of farming tenants who want to
improve. That is why the U.K. contains
4,000,000 dogs and 700,000 deer; against
1,100,000 dogs and 550,000 deer in Germany.
But Germany has 22,000,000 pigs and
21,000,000 cattle against 3,500,000 pigs
and 11,720,000 cattle in Britain, which is
so devoted to hunting and shooting that it
cannot afford to grow food for its people.
It is Sport that is depopulating rural Bri-
tain, and nothing else. Yours truly,
Ancient Warrior.
The Victorian Treasurer, in his Budget
statement, unconsciously casts further ridi-
cule on the knighting of ex-Railway Com-
missioner Tait. During two of the pros-
perous years of Tait’s regime no addition
whatever was made to the railway mileage.
In 1908-’O9 an addition of 15 miles was
made, and in 1909-’lo—which was Tait’s
last year—another 81 miles of rail were
laid. “There are now in course of construc-
tion miles.” And for thus doing his
’’•orst to delay settlement on the land, and
prevent Victoria from strengthening its
means of defence Thomas Tait was knighted.
He was one whom the King delighted to
honor for his services to the Empire. He
declared that the Melbourne suburban rail-
ways were run at a heavy loss. The Budget
statement includes the announcement “that
the metropolitan service show’s a profit for
the past year.” Tait wrongly checked the
development of the State, and wrongly
checked the figures of his Departmental re-
turns. So he was knighted—rightly enough.
Chief Commissioner O’Callaghan gently
insinuates that the example of Victoria is
being emulated by the Eondon police bosses
in a recent determination to arm the con-
stabulary with the Webley-Scott pistol and
teach their Cockney idea how to shoot.
O Callaghan, it seems, had previously armed
some of his men with the same weapon, and
the “Brunswick shooting case” was a lovely
illustration of their skill in marksmaship.
-that is to say, the Melbourne policemen
can point to the fact that he didn’t hit the-
fugitive as conclusive evidence that
merely aimed at space. He hit space alb
right. Had he missed space there wouldi
have been a to-do.
Re an Inquiry that evoked no reply:—
The Melbourne P.M., who, after holding a corra-
mission of inquiry, declared himself incapable of
judicial decision” on the Brunswick shooting case
has been officially requested to reconsider his verdict,
and find somebody “blamable”-—which is a mild
word, anyhow. There were only two bodies in the
case—a harmless youth, said to have been quite
naturally scared by the conversation and subsequent
action of the plain-clothes policeman who “fastened
on to him” m the street late at night, and the
policeman aforesaid who appears to have honestly
mistaken the harmless youth for two different sorts
of criminal. The shooting episode, which led to the
inquiry, accentuated the error of the policeman, but
didn t touch the question of his justification or con-
demnability (if there be such a word). Also it
cast a heavy shadow of doubt on the truth of’his
statement that the youth had fired off an undiscover-
able pop-gun, or what not, before fleeing from the
armed and explosive bobby. Yet it doesn’t prove
him —the bobby—to have been a wilful liar. No,
thing is proved, except that an “experienced officer”
of the law, with a good record, inflicted two false
suspicions upon a young citizen who happened in his
way. Firstly, he scared the youth by walking beside
him, and suggesting that he was a loathsome sexual
criminal, and then he terrified his companion by
acting on the suspicion that he was a robber. As an
“experienced officer,” the man showed that experience
had not made him wise. Whether unwisdom is
blamable or excusable in a member of O’Callaghan’s;
force, is the conundrum for the P.M. to answer.
Evidently the boy was not blamable for getting
scared. He had no proof that his obtrusive questioner
was a plain-clothes member of O’Callaghan’s foorce -
and had the proof been forthcoming it might have
aggravated his alarm. As matters stand in Melbourne
anybody is entitled to flee from a policeman
SPRING—IN THE SOUTH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Bus’ness Man feels debonair.
He gives a blithe guffaw;
He drops his Winter lid to wear
A jaunty little straw;
His fat-striped overcoat is shed,
He feels inclined to sing!
Biff ! —influenza, drugs and bed !
He feels the hand of Spring.
The Dago blooms in new-starched sleeves,
Who waits for biz in vain,
Glares skyward at the dripping eaves
And gets a bath of rain.
The crayfish droop, the oysters die,
The shop with flood’s afloat ;
He sinks beside his oyster-fry
And cuts his frozen throat.
The Lady Fair goes forth to bask
In sun, in muslin gown;
And Spring puts on his icy mask
To wear that lady down;
The dust flies up, the chill wind sweeps
The hatpins from her head;
A tattered wreck to port she creeps
And spends the month in bed.
The Poet, from h's attic grave,
Springs up with gestures bland,
Rolls down the stairs and takes the pave,
A blossom in his hand,
To kiss a red-nosed wench, who vents
Her coldness in a wail—
A wet policeman drags him thence
To spend the Spring in gaol.
But see, beside his leering lamps,
Who rubs his fatted hands ?
Who battens on the coughs, the cramps,
, The croups, the swollen glands?
’Tis lie! amid the world’s chill moan
I hear him sweetly sing,
The cheery chemist—he alone—
“Gawd bless the merry Spring!”
VICTORIA.
SIR RUPERT GARGOYLE.


I b "fcT I V*7
sMfck - *’
Vi Hi® W**
af * rece«r
Sco^
VETO ON KILTS.
SCOTTISH REGIMENT TO DISSOLVE.
SENATOR PEARCE'S DECREE.
)ovj raj> rzyz
of of
<to I>r*eKs
Off fi\ Vrdn7V7
le -
Vwllle
W’*#"
Wi,fr - Hoofi, ! T)mrr& yei-scl I"I
-tfree V ot£t, ./ e K ' cn ’
The Boy -'A». W'll.e,
wee fV 'S
W* ' , /M
\y, :
S ovl 9e/
j<Jee\ V*' I
SecK "lo dty o bf’h
Of l«otA<j ,
"fye j
recoil
i(f*KHi**/
')<, / /
'fiy 'loo I I
SOOVT • i
Senator Pearce, during bis absence, charged
his country MOO extra for five or six months’
holiday making at the Coronation. This,
taken in conjunction with the Eastern
retinue of the Prime Minister, does give rise
to the natural remark that Labor Ministers,
whatever else they may be, are not economical
in their demands on the State; nor in the
least enamored of Spartan simplicity in the
matter of pay.—Age.
Ij "tffe
lo go
not hz>ye.‘ S<>
t —
It the present rate of relative expense con-
tlnues, the people of this generation will live
to see more women than men engaged as
vvage earners In our factories, and they will
hear the question earnestly propounded : “What
shall we do with our men?" In a word, the
Australian woman has displayed a strong pre-
ference for bread winning, and a marked disln-
I her°V,° r6B: “ rd Wl,eh °° d Bnd “-o‘herhood
as her primary vocation. And she has em-
P aslsed her preference by Insidiously and
successfully assarting every stronghold of mas-
culine employment. —Age
Lieutenant Watkins, the aviator, who is to
accompany the Mawson expedition to the
South Pole, is a passenger by the R.M.S.
China. “Suppose you were about to make a
dash for the Pole from a given point, what
would be the longest period you could remain
in the air?” was asked.—Argus.
C)u^
* hjo/M ide* a| x r ,
WiCt'KiVi^
✓{'o*' j^ole^^-
Ba't’"purely you worK?
si'tt'i*rg Bill: Nojydie, elbowed ou^~
\.i. .. Combc+iffotj.'
W : - B ,
pill; beveM wom v^
i«i TFj^vellih'
KILTS, POLAR EXPLORATION, AND SUNDRIES.


LEWIS & WHITTY’S OLIVE OIL.
Guaranteed in conformity with the PURE
FOOD REGULATIONS of the Australian States.
LEWIS Jl WHITTY,
Melbourne and Sydney, n
McKenzies excelsior baking powder.
CLEMENT-
BAYARD
Motor Cars
Speak for Themselves.
Extract of a letter from
the late Manager, “ Motor
Transit Company of Aus-
tralia,”Glen Innes: “ During
the time I was managing
‘ The Motor Transit Co. of
\
8-h.p. 2-cylinder Clement-Bayard Car, £2 ?5-
Australia,’ we had plying , , ,
between Glen Innes and Inverell an 11-16 Cletnent-Bayard Car, which we purchased as second-hand. We
did about 60,000 miles with her up to the time of my leaving (she is still going well). Nearly all the running
was done between Glen Innes and Inverell, over the famous Waterloo R inge, some of the grades of which
are one in six. The Car was invariably overloaded, and was given very little care; but in the face of the bad
usage sbe received at our hands she stood up wonderfully well, and the only repairs that were effected were
two ball races lor road wheels and a set of new valves.”
Call and allow us to explain the reason why our prices for Cars generally, Commercial Lorries and High-
wheel Buggies will be found to be 25 per cent, lower than the usual Sydney quotations.
10-15-h.p., 4 Cylinder, fitted with one wide Seat and Boot at the back, £36 5»
12-18-h.p., 4 Cylinder, fitted with Touring Body, £4-75*
15-h.p., 6 Cylinder, fitted with high>class Touring Body, £550. t
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
Oarage—6 & 8 Underwotl Street, off 37 Pitt Street.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Srdttejf,
23-25 HUNTER STREET.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
THE UNGRATEFUL ANCIENT.
[For The Bulletin.]
Some lads were drinking in a pub;
Full of conceit was each loud cub;
A blear-eyed ancient near them sat
And toyed with his decrepit hat.
They loudly called for pony beers;
The ancient eyed then! through his tears;
One turned his head and said, “I think
This poor old blanker wants a drink.”
The ancient one made no demur,
But murmured meekly, “Thank you, sir.”
He loved his beer, ’twas plain to see,
And gripped the tankard gratefully.
He drank the beer that sixpence bin’s ;
He wiped his mouth, and then his eyes.
The cub said to his ancient brother,
“You poor old blanker! Have another!”
Again we watched the pot appear,
Full to the brim of good brown beer;
They filled him up in lordly style,
And called him “blanker” all the while.
When he with thirst was like to choke,
He did not care what way they spoke;
But suddenly—a strange effect!—
The beer restored his self-respect!
And then his eyes with fury glowed ;
The tears no longer from them flowed ;
He doffed his hat and coat and rose
And smote a shouter on the nose.
“Don’t call me ‘blanker’ to me face!
You blanky boys don’t know your place !
I’ll teach you better, strike me blue!
Come on you cheeky blankers, you !”
Amazed, they tumbled through the door,
And left him stamping on the floor ;
It seemed to all of them absurd
That he should hate that jovial vyprd.
MAORILAXD. C.W.E.
* * * *
‘"Benita” : Although I have never seen a
yellow snake (being on the square for some time
now), I have seen a pure white snake. He was about
3ft. long, and had been violently ejected from a rock-
formation during blasting operations in the Marmor
(Rockhampton, Queensland) stone quarries. The
reptile had no eyes, and died immediately on his
eruption upon the face of the earth; but although
we had whips of time to examine him, we didn’t
take advantage of it. The odor was too discourag-
ing.
AN ANOMALY.
PAT (catching sight of his first kangaroo): “By the Hivins ,
what sort av a crayture is that? Whenever he runs
he jumps, a n’ whenever he stands tip, he
sits down! ”
“Bollo”: While doing a bit of prospect-
ing on the Campaspe (Vic.) in the day of the
abundant Binghi, the solitude was broken by the ad-
vent of a camp of aborigines on the river bank.
“You lend me one pfeller chisel, boss ?” said Tarboy
at the tent-door one morning. Shortly afterwards
he reappeared with the chisel dripping blood, and re-
marked in a pleasant sort of voice: “My Crikey, boss,
next time Lizzie run away longa ’Chuea, mine tink it
I track her.” Looking towards the camp I discovered
Lizzie hopping on one foot, alternately keening like
an Irish Banshee, and shrillv stigmatising Tarboy
as “a plurry cow.” He had chiselled the gin’s middle
toe off. The other lubras stuck a couple of pounds
of ashes on the injured foot and bound it up in a
cloth, and in about a week Lizzie was bounding
around as lively as a young gohanna.
“Romun” ; Re snakebite cures. Saw a boy
of the Binghi breed punctured by a black snake
once. He immediately leapt into an adjacent water-
hole, and there lurked, with only his face showing,
during the rest of the day and the whole of the fol-
lowing night. He climbed up the bank next morn-
ing, clean, but well.
If “Phoenix” (B. 10/S/’ll) is
ever stung by the nettle-trees of the North Coast,
let him try rubbing the afflicted part with the under-
surface of the nettle-tree leaf. This is a sure anti-
dote. Anybody who gets string by the oldest in-
habitant will have to find an antidote for himself.
I don’t know any.
* * * *
“J. O’N.”: For a discolored population,
Waiora, Hawkes Bay (M.L.) will take some beating.
On the North Clive side of the river, pakeha, Chow,
Assyrian and Maori struggle for race supremacy, and
judging by the number of children of different shades
to be found in that neighborhood, the discolored
person is more than holding his own. The Chow has
cornered the vegetable, laundry, fruit, and sly-grog
trade, while the Assyrians seem to thrive on
“brummy” jewellery and shoddy drapery. One
billiard-room, two boarding-houses, one livery stable,
and a store are in the hands of Jack Maori. A white
man keeps the pub. When I wandered into Wairoa
some months ago, I found the variegated population
enjoying a taste of Jap rule. A month previous, a lost,
son of Nippon had arrived, and promptly kicked,
punched, shoved, and jiu-jitsued the greater portion
of the male population almost into Hades. The in-
fernal female was the cause of most of the trouble.
Saw the “Yellow agony” and a Maori do battle for
the possession of a white girl. The Jap won, but
before I left the town I had the pleasure of seeing
him sent along for a well-deserved 18 months’ hard
quod for almost murdering an inoffensive old man,
who had objected to Mr. Nippon’s carryings-on with
his daughter.
* * * *
“Pick”: If the barrackers for the fast
shearing and cane-cutting champions will hold their
breath for a while, I would like to edge in a say
for the greased-lightning fencer. At Windellama
(N.S.W.) I once saw Amby Carter —then over 60—-
and his son throw up 172 panels of one-rail fence in
a day, and I advance that as a big performance to
begin with. Of course, I have heard of the fellow
who fenced so far in a day that it took him three
days to walk back to his camp, but the men I speak
about were ordinary fencers, not hogs at the game.
* * * *
“Yalgoo,” from the Mnlga, AY.A.: The
other day I found that one of my dog-traps had
been lifted by a dingo. Followed his trail, and dis-
covered that he had got over a rabbit-proof fence
4ft. high; he couldn’t get under, because the net-
ting was 4in. below the surface. Came up with him
where he was having a siesta in the butt of an old
gum-tree. He’s still sleeping. I’ve heard t’other-
siders talk about dog-proof fences, but I’d be
charmed to know how high a dingo-proof fence would
have to be. I believe the original Hebrew dingo climbed
the wall of Solomon’s Temple. My friend carried
an 81b. trap over the 4ft. fence, and he wasn’t feel-
ing very well when he did it.
* * * *
“T.J.M.” : The Hindu hawkers who trail
their van loads of brummy jewellery, drapery, boots,
etc., about the country have troubles of their own.
I was present at a court-martial of one of the tribe
lately. He was found guilty of accepting cooked
food from a wood-cutter’s camp, in defiance of some
religious decree. Ten brother Hindoos formed the
court, and they fined the villain six pairs of boots,
10 yards of calico, six pairs of sox, 6 pocket knives
and a dozen pipes. The “court” whacked the spoil,
and then adjourned sine die.
“Bogan Bill" : The Murrunibidgee whaler
is an artist >in the mud-paste method of cooking.
Scotty the Wrinkler, big-gun cook, brightest of
freelances and most renowned of whalers, was an
enthusiastic barracker for the mud-paste system.
It is as easy as falling off a log, too. A paste of
kneaded mud is moulded round the joint, bird, etc.
The brick is laid on the fire, sprinkled with hot
ashes, and banked with red coals. ’Possum baked
’ thus is a luxury. Even carnies are palatable. Fish
require to be scaled, not gutted. The Christmas
turkey is simply beheaded, neither plucked nor
cleaned. When baked the feathers or fur have dis-
appeared, and the innards have shrivelled to the size
of a marble. I’ll guarantee the flavor. Then, think
of the time saved in skinning and plucking. Like-
wise, imagine how pleasant it is, when John Dunn
comes mooching round looking for Mrs. Rooney’s
prize buff Orpington, to have no incriminating
feathers floating round the premises. My oath, we
whalers are a progressive and up-to-date crowd.
Paper-bag cookery ? I smile !
INTENSE
MODESTY.
WOWER:
"Gertrude ,
look this way
the sun is
going to bed.'"
“Tiaki”: Don’t agree with “Curse o’
Maori” and others that Henare is returning to his
native hardihood, I rather think he is fattening for
racial decay. Henare and Meri may have advanced
a little numerically by mixing with whites, but I
reckon the increase is only temporary. The Native
Land Act of 1909 gives them greater facility to sell
the soil from under their feet than they previously
had. AVhat Maoriland has to guard against is a
brown aristocracy and a brown pauperism. Nothing
will save Henare and Co. except to return to the old
hardy life of hunting the woodhen and tuna. Every
man (and woman, too) had to be an athlete in the
pre-pakeha days in order to get tucker, or else he
(and she) became tucker for someone else. When I
see an 18-st. Henare and a ditto Meri exhausting
their scant breath in waddling from their expensive
motor-car to the railway train, I guess the end is
• not far off. It seems impossible that these can be
the people Who, a couple of decades ago, climbed 60ft.
trees in the freezing dawn to knock down pigeons
whose prehensile grip' had not yet been thawed by
the warmth of the snn.
“Whit'e Horsetralian” “Yalgun” (B.
29/6/’ll) asks if there is any mining township in
Australia that is free from Chinese ? Yes—Yerran-
derie (N.S.W.). But the small silver field has a
Hindu storekeeper who does a flourishing business.
He advertises in an ,obscure country paper thus:
“Your old, kind, fond friend is still at- Yerranderie !”
And alleged good .Australians patronise, the kind, fond,
cullud pusson, to the detriment of their blood-
brothers trading in the same town.; -
**• * *
“Eddyson”: It appeared that Crowther
and Smith, when returning from an unsuccessful
prospecting : tour, came upon Michael Lowe in the
centre of Ash Pit,'otherwise the* Grey Plain. Michael
was a complete stranger to the mates. He was
sprawling in the fine sand, under a sweltering sun,
wearing nothing but two-fifths of a pair of cotton
socks, crooking his . finger. at - nothing, and uttering
a cooing sound. Crowther and Smith took Lowe in
hand, nursed him for two days, and then carried
and cajoled him over 37 miles of vile country into
Pie Flat, where he was given up to Mrs. Crowther’s
tender care. Mrs. Crowther nursed, and fed and
doctored Michael Lowe at Crowther’s expense, and when
Lowe was well 'enough to do for himself again, he ran
away with Crowther’s wife —also at Crowther’s ex-
pense. Crowther was the recipient of almost uni-
versal sympathy. Pie Flat felt for him all the more
by reason of the fact that his old mate Smith had
seized this unhappy moment to “dog” on him. Smith
was very virulent in his comments on the bereaved
Crowther, and when pressed for an explanation one
night at the Bridge Inn, blurted out: “Crowther’s a
mean, selfish hog, that’s what. Why didn’t he let
me take the man home ? I had first claim on him.
I saw him first!” The breach between Smith and
Crowther remains to this day, and Smith is still
living with his missus. She never succeeded in find-
ing another man.
“Vagabond’s” gasp of inquiry:—
Why is the farmer in Australia such an out-of-
dater at the use of motor-power for his field and
farm work ? He is wide awake enough in other
machinery lines, and ready to sit up all night to
grab first at any improvement in reapers, ploughs,
etc., but apparently he doesn’t understand that the
tractor will do all the fixed engine’s work and prac-
tically any job a horse can tackle, to say nothing of
the heap a horse can’t look at. It only costs about
the.same as a first-class team; it doesn’t have to
be fed and groomed and-watered, and have a staff
of teamsters to wait on it; it has been proved in
tests to do the work at less cost; it is not limited
to the number of hours a day it can work; you can
start her off at dawn, and keep plugging along till
dark, and it there’s ‘desperate need to get an extra
hustle oh at getting the ploughing done or the har-
vest scooped in, you only need to hang out a lamo
or two, give her another swallow of benzine, and
whoop her up again for an all-night run. When the
implement isn’t being, used at field work, it can
haul goods to or from the'railway, or hull the com,
or milk the cows, or rock the baby, or any other
old thing. In dry weather, when the land has its
tongue hanging out for a drink, it can pump the
nfceessary up from the river and spurt it over the
dust-heaps. It has the old steam, traction-’engine
beaten to scraps;. it .hasn’t any bailer to bust or
spark-spitting funnel to set fire to things.' Alto-
gether, you’d think the farmer would welcome the
motor-tractor like a long lost brother that owed him.
money, whereas he stands afar off and gazes on it
with a cold and glassy eyei Ariybody know why?
* * * *
“Ilong,” o^f' Maoriland, plays cricket in
broken English-; '
Nircha lie son te’ oharrenge we> pray to korikir.
town Hukuwai,. an’ las’ week we hire te trag .air
trive towii. We te‘koo't team ; we’beat ’em,'l pet.
Patene he pat te firs, make te, tuck—he .to tub.,, Ten,
Tito he ko in, he make te eight. Ket powl. Ten 1
ko in. Py.Gott, I make te cent’ry, I. pet. Rakfttai
he - powl te koot pori (ball), I hit, him past nex’
Kerismas. Kaitawe lie chasft te pori, Kaitawe tog
he chase te pori too. Te tog b° win py te sort
rength, krab te pori. Py Gott, I make te huntret
one hit, preak te recort. Te crowt chase te tog, he
karrup away, trop te pori on TWi’iraha’s grafe, to\vn
py te kereek. Tc tarn pori he tapu. Py Gottv I kef
te hard ruck, ony make twenty-two that hit. Ten
we eat te tinner, trink te peer. Pime-py we think
we ko home, ket te trag. Kb six-seven mile, Tito—
he pretty near trunk, I think —sing te Merry Witter,
friten te' horse, preak te trace. Ten we have to walk
home, fife mile. I peen tired ever since. PyGott,
that kerikit te rotten kame, I think. I pray te
footpall nex’ time.
“Romun”: The Australian nigger is
rapidly dying out, but it is not owing to white men’s
diseases, nor yet to the white man’s alcohol. The
main cause is that the young gins won’t have picca-
ninnies ; and their methods of defeating maternity
are effective, if somewhat crude. One piccaninny to
60 gins is about the position in the average
camp. The niggers say that they have a hard time
gaining an existence themselves without supporting
young blacks or half-castes, as the case may be. I
have struck blacks’ camps of 60 or 70 inhabitants
• where the, youngest member was 27 years of age.


The Army of
Constipation
Is Growing Smaller Every Day.
CARTER'S LITTLE
LIVER PILLS are
responsible—they not
only give relief—
they permanently
cure Constipation.
Millions use
them for /
Biliousness,
Ĥ
Carters
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS.
Indigestion, Sick Headache, Sallow Skin
SHALL PILL, SHALL DOSE, SMALL PRICE.
GENUINE must bmr Signature
There are at least three kinds of monopolies—
monopolies due to location, monopolies due to privi-
leges or patents and monopolies belonging to Govern-
ments. Of the three, the only one that L. L. Lacey
could have aspired to was a patent. But of this he
made good use, and though it was only a germ
destroyer for telephone mouthpieces he sold it to
W. Walton of Texas for 1000 dollars. Patent and
trade mark attorneys, Phillips Ormonde & Co., 266
Flinders St. (ascend by elevator), Melbourne.*
CALDWELL’S,
High
Quality
INKS
' V ' ' Stocked by
ANTHONY HORDERN 8 SONS,
Universal Providers, Brickfield Hill.
PLASMON COCOA
"A Delicious Beverage of much greater
nutritive value than ordinary Cocoa."
—British Medical Journal .
PLASMON IS USED BY THE ROYAL FAMILY.
Australian Deoot: 5 & 7 Barrack St.. Sydney.
The Royal Hotel,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Most centrally situated Hotel in Sydney.
Best place to lunch and dine in town.
J. W. COCKBAINE, Proprietor.
“-.w. T. Soon” : Niggle and Crabbe owned
adjoining selections on a rich out precipitous slope.
They differed on most subjects, had frequent wrangles
across the boundary fence, and at intervals forbade
their respective wives and families to have anything
to do with “that there crowd.” Notwithstanding
all this, they managed to rub along together without
actually declaring war until the record rain fell, and
sleepy Nature allowed the cloak of the hill (valued
at £2O an acre) to slip gradually from its shoul-
ders. The two families were in the township attend-
ing the show when the landslide happened, and they
got home in the dusk, only to find the main road
buried. Far up the hill two drunken houses leaned
heavily against the atmosphere, and the roots of a
diving bluegum flourished gaily in the air, like the
termination of a whale. Niggle, owner of the lower
selection, after a distracted survey of the scenic
alterations, approached Crabbe’s dray threateningly.
“Here! Look at this! Your d —d place has
crawled all over mine! What are you going to do
about it?” Crabbe pointed wildly at the blocked
highway. “What am I going to do? I’m going to
do nothing! Why don’t you keep your place from
slipping its moorings and sliding all over the road?
My lot has moved down after it because it had to,
you fool! You can practise agriculture on the
road, and fix it the best way you can with the
Council, for I tell you straight I’m going to chase
after my little lot with the plough!” “Look here!”
shouted Niggle, “some of your land’s lying on top of
mine; and as I can’t get at my own, I’m going to
farm yours!” “Oh, are you ?” retorted Crabbe, and
removed his coat. They fought on the spot; and
subsequently the two families had three pitched
battles, 25 skirmishes, and half a Hague Conven-
tion. No decision being arrived at, they put on
their best clothes and went down to Melbourne to
get the trouble put through a horsehair sieve. The
lawyers settled it satisfactorily. Niggle and Crabbe
don’t own selections now; they work on the
wharves and argue in their spare time across a
suburban paling fence.
* * * *
“Walt. K. Harris”: “Itan’s” par. (B.
17/8/’ll), regarding the curative properties of Aus-
tralian bore-water for certain ailments, especially
rheumatics, reminds me that some time ago, away
out at Charleville (south-west Q.), I heard a story
about the owner of a Melbourne Cup winner. He
had arrived in Charleville, crippled with rheumatism,
and almost dead. For three months he stayed
there, having a bath in the bore water every night
and morning, and a rub down by a local racing
man after each. The treatment completely cured him,
and I have no doubt it would cure hundreds of others
if the Government would take sufficient interest in
the matter to spread the glad tidings. But perhaps
the Denham cripples are too near death’s door to
worry about other wrecks.
OUT OF FASHION.
OLD MINER: “No, yer don't run across many
big nuggets nowadays. Why, if a man
was to find one, everybody ’u'd be pointing
him out in the street for weeks after."
VISITOR: “Yes; I can quite understand it
would be very embarrassing. Would make
one feel so behind the times, don'tyerknow."
“10-2-4” : They stand no damnonsense in
the Aramac (Q.) Smart Set. Scrutinise the follow-
ing:—
ARAMAO QUADRILLE ASSEMBLY RULES.
Rule I.—That no person be allowed to engage any
lady, only for the first and last dance.
Rule 2.—ln advent of any girl refusing to dance
with any person will be asked to sit the dance
out by the M.C.
Rule 3.— A1l Gents to leave the ladies when the first
whistle is blown at the begining of each
dance.
Rule 4.- —No man allowed in the Hall in any un-
decencey state or under the influence of Liquor.
Rule 5.—A1l dances must abide by the M.C. decision.
Rule 6. —-All members must pay monthly advance.
Rule 7.—A1l persons behaving in an objectional
manner be Ejected.
In Aramac, ’tis said, an effete Southerner attempted
to introduce the two-step. The M.C. whistled.
Heedless of etiquette the stranger persisted. The
M.C. thereupon “jobbed” him to such good purpose
that he was insensible for eight hours. A whistle
and a ready punch are practically the only real
essentials in an Aramac Society leader.
“Eddyson”: Patrick Mackaboy, an orna-
ment of the threepenny-bar, told me of the quaint
case of Mrs. Looney. “She was an Irish body, one
of those sedate, elderly Hibernians, who drift to
Mass in dingy black garments of the period of Brian
Boroimhe, and she attracted my attention by her per-
nicious habit of stealing in by the side door for
‘three pen’orth more.’ Whisky was her weakness.
She took it in a 6oz. medicine bottle, which she
corked securely, and dropped into an old stocking,
carefully banking her treasure in the slack of her
upper garments before leaving. Mrs. Looney was
so obviously a non-alcoholic that my native and in-
veterate curiosity was excited, and I ingratiated my-
self with a persistent sweetness of tone and manner
preliminary to investigating. ‘True for ye, sir, I
niver taste iv lit. ’Tis fer Tim’s wake, ut is. No,
Tim ain’t t at dead. Not t’ say dee-ceased, but ’tis
a likely thing, come Chewsdee, him havin’ that
manny disases. ’Tis a long time Tim’s been dyin’,
’n’ I saze the opporchunity iv ivery spare bit t’ in-
vest it in whisky fer the dacent wake iv me poor
bye. Whin I get home I pour this wid th’ rest in
a bit iv a dimmyjim I have hid by me safe ’n’
sacrit. ’Tis a manner of savin’ money.” After that,
whenever Mrs. Looney called for ‘three pen’orth
more,’ I got hints of the rise and progress of Tim’s
ailments. ‘Very bad he was lahst night. Ye might give
me six pen’orth, she said on the Wednesday. On
Thursday he couldn’t live the night out, and
Mrs. Looney took a shilling’s worth in twin
phials. Then Tim would take a turn for the better,
and frugal Mrs. Looney dropped back to three
pen’orths again. Then came a Friday morning when
Mrs. Looney arrived early, in evident excitement.
‘ ’Tis the end,’ she said. ‘Six pen’orth, plaze.’ In
an hour she was back, more agitated than before.
‘Me dimmyjim’s near full,’ said she; ‘but ye might
gimme three pen’orth. He’s brathin’ his latest,
I’m told.’ She came again before evening for an-
other six pen’orth. Tim was not yet dead, but his
case was ‘virry imminent ’n’ precautious.’ Mrs.
Looney came no more, and I judged that Tim had
gone to his reward. Sauntering in the air on Sun-
day morning, I met Mrs. Looney coming from early
Mass. She had a black eye and a most woebegone
expression. She put up her hands with the air of a
hopeless woman abandoning mankind to its fate.
‘ ’Tis Tim done it,’ she moaned. ‘Bad cess to him,
he found the whisky!’”
“Jimmie Pannikin” : Slowly but surely the
motor-car is conquering Right-Out-Baek. Cleary, a
well-known coach-owner, of Broken Hill, is about to
run a motor-vehicle, instead of the good old trap,
between the Hill and Menindie. The distance is be-
tween 70 and 80 miles. What a time passengers
will have when the motor-coach breaks down half-
way between Oh-Lord and Where-are-we.
* # * *
“WarradullaV: I consider that the wild
cat of the Australian bush is the hardest beast or
fiend to kill in this hard world. Caught a huge
grey male once in a rabbit-trap, about 30 miles
north of Broken Hill. Immediately the iron jaws
closed on his leg, he bounded into space, and con-
veyed the trap with him, despite the fact that the
bow had been hammered tightly into the ground.
Alighting a few yards away, he again leaped, cover-
ing nigh on 10 yards in the jump. After touching
dirt the second time, all trace of his proceedings
vanished. Whether he aeroplaned, biplaned, or
merely flew I know not. All I know is he dis-
appeared from that locality. About a week later I
met him in an old woolshed, more than two miles
from where he was caught, with my lost trap still
adhering to his broken and badly-swollen leg.
Though gaunt and much subdued with pain, he still
had the glint of battle in his green eyes, and he
spat ferociously when I approached. I adminis-
tered two stern, rebuking cracks on the skull, which
undoubtedly would have stunned a rhinoceros; but
Tom merely yelled his wrath and made hurriedly for
the sky-line with me in pursuit. When utterly ex-
hausted, he stood at bay under a mulga, giving vent
to exclamations of mingled despair and pleadings
for mercy. My hard heart softened! I wished the
job done. So, fearing a collapse, I struck a has-
tened and terrific blow at his unprotected pate. He
ducked, and the waddy broke harmlessly on the tree.
Those watery green eyes blinked and looked up into
mine. That settled it. The evil within me was
crushed. So I loosed Tom from the trap without
further hostilities, and watched him beat it for home
and a box of ointment.
NATIVE PRIDE.
C ITYITE: “ Well , Jacky; what yon think of
Sydney? Big place, eh?”
JACKY : “I bin thinkit this one not as big as
where I come from."
CITYITE: “Where yon come from?"
JACKY : “ Why, I come from the plurry bush!"
“Sa Wen”: It may interest “The Pariah,”
“Wang,” and other tram-drivers to know that fiddle-
back is being used every day for panels, cabinets,
pianos, etc. Certainly it entails a trifle of toil in
the dressing, but it misses being the hardest Aus-
tralian wood by several superficial feet. “F.C.”
nominates a piece of yellow-box for the biscuit, but
he is not prepared to wager on it. Good job for
him. If he and the others I have mentioned will
get a fairly sharp axe, whirl it wildly once or twice,
and then smite a hunk of Tasmanian oak, they’ll
know for certain which is the hardest Australian
wood—that is, they will after they recover con-
sciousness.
* * * *
“Pick”: Unlike “Geofred” (B. 31/8/T1).
I have not subjected the lady emu to any mathema-
tical tests to determine her ideas of a decent-sized
family, but I have proven that if some of the fruit
be daily abstracted from her basket, the missus will
keep on producing eggs throughout the season in
order to have the usual four for incubation. My
trouble is to learn whence Margaret gets her surplus
supply. She brings forth four only if the be
left unmolested, but always seems to have others lying
about handy to replace any that disappear during
the laying period.
OFFICIAL INCOMPETENCE AGAIN.
“ Why was the proposed amendment of the
Conslitntion voted down at Hossville? ”
“Because of Federal mismanagement of the Post
Office .”
“G.F.” : “Dutchy’s” question (B. 17/8/T1)
as to whether 20,000 rabbits were poisoned in a
single night on one station, near White Cliffs
(N.S.W.), recalls the incident to me. But the
beasts weren’t poisoned. The station was Nundora,
and the year about ’9O or ’9l. The tanks were low,
and they were being fenced in to prevent the sheep
carrying water away in their wool. The netting
used had rather a large mesh, and when Brer Rabbit,
sneaking down the first night after the work had
been completed, to see about a beer, found the Early
Closing Act. in full operation, he squeezed his
emaciated body through it. Then he had several
long beers, and started off with his load for home.
But if the entrance had been a tight squeeze for an
empty rabbit, the exit for a full rabbit was hopeless.
When the fencers arrived next morning there were,
as far as I remember the tally, 20,000 bunnies within
the fenced enclosures, and waddies, dogs and other
instruments closed the incident.
“Theodolite”: The description of the
North Coast (N.S.W.) stinging tree, given by
“Phoenix” (B. 10/8/’ll), as “a vegetable from sft.
to 10ft. high,” is misleading. Matured trees grow
from 50ft. to 60ft. in height, and from 3ft. to sft.
in diameter. They grow equally well in rich allu-
vial or in mountain brush, and there are two
species—one with a big, round leaf of a smooth,
fluffy appearance, and another with a smaller leaf,
darker green, and more like the mulberry, without
the down. The latter species is not so plentiful, but
is far more dreaded than the former, as it is less
conspicuous. Have been amongst both species for
nearly 50 years, and have never seen stock eat the
leaves, nor any sign of them having done so.
One Fred Turner, F.L.S., did Australia
good service at the last meeting of N.S.W. Lin-
nean Society, by his show of the grasses of Northern
Australia. He produced samples which grow from
a fathom to 12ft. high, and others averaging a good
3ft. These grasses, which abound over very large
areas, are much relished by cattle, though one might
think that only the tree-climbing cow could tackle
the larger specimens. The more the North is inves-
tigated the more the garment of reproach drops from
around it.
“Mallarapoonie’s” explorations:—
The other day I blew into Bunbury, Westralia's
biggest export centre—the principal outlet for
Westralia’s greatest hardwood forest country; the
sandy village to which ships from all quarters of
the globe come to load jarrah and karri. Besides
being The Birthplace, Bunbury is also famous for
its beer. Artesian wells within the precincts of the
town are the primary source of the brown fluid, and
of such excellence is the frothy substance that it
seems a regrettable thing that all artesian wells
haven’t their accompanying breweries. They would
fill a long-felt want in Western Queensland, for in-
stance. Another creditable industry in Bunbury is
the milling business of Robert Forrest. While big
brother John went exploring and politicianing and
gallivanting around, brother Bob sat quietly at home
and ground wheat. And a man who sits quietly at
home and grinds wheat for 30-odd years deserves
some thanks of his country. Of the two brothers
quite a lot of people consider miller Robert to he
the better citizen. He gave people good bread, while
politician Jack has given them hot air and a swag
of debt. Some of this debt is represented at Bun-
bury by half a million pounds’ worth of harbor im-
provements—permanent and reproductive public
works that are annually becoming more inadequate
to the demands of commerce, and each year getting
nearer the scrap-heap. Among the permanent insti-
tutions there is £280,000 worth of breakwater,
which is being slowly put out of action by sand.
Hence, another scheme is afoot to dredge a channel
from Koombana Bay into the Preston River estuary,
to dredge the estuary to a minimum depth of 30tt.,
and to institute an inner harbor generally. Ims
scheme is estimated to make a big hole “f
£1,000,000. And it isn’t certain that silt won i
be an awful bugbear even then.
BEYOND.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Beyond the dismal sandscape
Lies the Land of God-forgot,
Whore the ice-cream does not flourish
And the counter-lunch is not;
There is sand and there is sorrow,
There is soreness of the eyes,
There’s a scarcity of oysters
And a plenitude of flies ;
And every pain and every ill
That falls to mortal’s lot,
Hath nibbled at my vitals
On the track to God-Forgot.
Beyond the fringe of mulga
Lies the Land of Dreadful Thirst,
Where the wild bull-camel yageth,
And the camel-man accurst
Smiles behind his inky whiskers,
When he contemplates the scene
Of a weary swagman limping
Down the track to Never-green.
But the language of the swaggie
Is unfit for me to quote—-
Yet it seems to suit the climate
Of the Utterly Remote.
Beyond the final gum-tree
Lies the Land of No One Knows—•
Where the spinifex and saltbush
And the stunted samphire grows;
Where the emugator creepeth
And the kangarooster flies,
Where the jillawarra sleepeth,
And the fierce giramel cries ;—-
Where the whatsit and the whoyoo
And the neversawim grin,
At the chap who hugs Matilda
As a penance for his sin.
At the back of Jumbuek station,
’Tis a peaceful thing to rest
And review the situation
As the sun sinks in the west;
And it helps a man’s devotions
"When he kneels at evening prayer,
If the ants are in his whiskers
And a scorpion’s in his hair.
When a snake crawls up his trousers.
You can bet he’s proud and fond
Of “living close to Nature”
In the Utterly Beyond.
N.S.W.
TOM BEASLEY.


THE MOVABLE GRIFFITH.
One day last week there appeared on the business paper of N.S. W. Assembly 52 notices beginning, “Mr. Griffith to move.” In each case the Minister
was moving that some new railway or other public work should be built out of loan money. Yes, the Minister moves right enough. At present the borrowed
cash is moving at the rate of £5,000,000 a year.


GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
WORLD-FAMED
HATS.
For
QUALITY.
For
DURABILITY.
20th Century Moleskin.
The Best for Hard Wear.
Risiitcred Thao* Mark.
((WARRANTED PURECtnjQfjT|
See that the above Registered
Trade Mark are on and inside ever} ganne
Garments can be obtained at all Storekeepers^
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Mrs. Coleman, who told the Adelaide pub-
lic the other day that her grandsons had
determined to go to gaol rather than attend
military cadet drill, is a Quaker of over i 0
years standing. Her husband’s people
Quaked also. They came to S.A. a few
years after the State was founded, having
previously lived in Tasmania. They dwelt
in Mount Barker 70 years ago, and built
there a little Quaker chapel, which was long
ago demolished.
Gone to join the innumerable caravan of
the dead, William Kelleway, aged S 4, one of
the really ancient ink-spreaders of the Com-
monwealth. He was born at Norwich (Eng-
land), but came to Australia over 70 years
ago. He toiled in the Government Printing
Offices of N.S.W., Queensland and Maori-
land ; was one of the primeval compositors
on the Brisbane Courier, and later owned
the Northern Star, which shone at Lis-
more (N.S.W.). He leaves a family of 11.
STICKING TO HIS COLORS.
MRS. L OLLYSHOP: “ Wot'll you ’ave? Scotch
mixtures or some French almond rock?"
I KEY: “No danks. Some Jew-jubes, please."
“Gyrus D.” : That ancient Browne family
which has lately had some Bulletin men-
tion, apropos the death of veteran J. D.
Browne, of Liverpool (N.S.W.), started
with “Merchant” Browne, of Sydney's
earliest days. Coming as an ex-officer of the
East India Go., he got fr@m the prodigal
Government 3400 acres at Lake Illawarra
and 800 acres at Port Hacking, the latter
now partly included in National Park. The
merchant provided himself with a “desirable
town residence,” on the northern corner of
George-street and Bridge street, extending to
the Tank Stream; and there is a legend in
the family that ships came right up the creek
and discharged at the warehouse doors. On
the George-street frontage the second genera-
tion of Brownes built the Crooked Billet Inn ;
the site is now occupied by the Star
Hotel. A grandson, W. J. Browne, was a
well-known sportsman of the ’so’s (some old
hands may remember Kauri Gum and Half
Caste, two of his horses), and was after-
wards in the Customs. He still lives, aged
about 90.
The oldest man in Adelaide has decided
that it was a fair thing, and passed out. His
name is of no importance, but his obituary
says that he leaves sundry children, 19
grandchildren, and “one great grandchild
aged 79 years.” So the deceased couldn t
well have been less than 121, or more than
199.
William Steward, of Maoriland, kniglit.
M.P. for Waitaki for 35 years, Father
of the House, and wearer _of the “white
flower of a blameless life,” is retiring from
active politics. He was Speaker from IS9I
to 1593, and has always been a useful
opponent of Toryism. His pet scheme for an
Elective Executive has just struck its usual
streak of ill-luck once again.
Among the Civil List Pensions granted
by the British Government for the current
year was an amount of £lOO to the children
of Frederick Greenwood, the London jour-
nalist who founded the Pall Mall Gazette.
It was Greenwood who, learning by some
means that the Egyptian Khedive's Suez
Canal shares were on the market, suggested
to Disraeli their purchase by the British
Government. The results of the deal are his-
torical. Greenwood died a poor man, and
£lOO to his children doesn’t seem too much
in the way of gratitude.
“Te Ruruku” butts in:—
You have had some paragraphs lately about a de-
ceased gentleman, known as Judas Iscariot, said by
legend to have been a man of education and page to
Pontius Pilate. And in your issue of August 3 you
say he “hanged himself.” But did he hang himself ?
St. Matthew says he did, but St. Mark, St. Luke, and
St. John give no account of his death. In the first
chapter of the Acts of the Apostles, it is stated that
Judas, who is vaguely described as a bishop, bought
a piece of land with the reward (305.), fell down
thereon, and hurst himself. Judging by my exper-
ience of public companies, I presume he had issued
too many debentures, yet, for all we know, he may
have been grubbing out a stump. Again, he may
have been over-full of beer. Anyhow, the evidence
is equal, and Judas should be given the benefit of
the doubt.
“N”: While Vida Goldstein expatiates
in England another Vida, or rather Veda,
has sprung up in Victoria. This is Miss
Veda Martin, travelling agent of the
Women’s National (Tory) League.. Veda
first came before the public as a violinist.
She threw her fiddle to the dogs and the
four winds of Heaven when she discovered
her great talent as an agitator. Vida Gold-
stein is somewhat hampered in Australia
through being so conscientious. In the
Senate election the Women Tories and
Women Laborites were both against her.
Also the Bebrewesses, because she declared
• herself of the Church of England. Veda
goes the whole Tory hog, while Vida
dabbled a bit in Socialism, and yet would
not go that hog either.
J. Havelock Wilson, M.P., the fighting or-
ganiser and president of the great British
Sailors and Firemen’s Union, who is re-
ported to be coming to Australia, used, 30
years ago, to be before the mast in a small
timber schooner on the coast of N. S. Wales.
Returning to England, he joined Plimsoll,
M.P., in trying to ameliorate the condition
of the sailor, and soon found himself leader
of 80,000 well-organised men, with contin-
ental alliances in case of a row. After sev-
eral strikes, in which hair, skin and fur
flew invariably, and which were generally
followed by a crop of slander actions
against Wilson, he tackled the Middlesbro’
seat in 1592. His opponents were the pre-
sent Lord Justice Robson and Hugo Bell, a
big ironfounder. Robson was selected by the
Liberal “400,” but on the advice of an Aus-
tralian M.L.A., who happened to be around at
the time, Wilson appealed to the people in the
market square of Middlesbro’, and had 5000
hands held up for him. So he ran, and
was triumphantly returned, and was strong-
enough to carry his defeated opponent, Rob-
son, Q.C., in at the next election for South
Shields, near-by. That able lawyer, thus
started on a Parliamentary career, became
Solicitor-General, then Attorney-General,
and finally Judge.
“Scribe” speaks discursively about an old
pioneer:—
I have been shown a lithograph copy of Fawkner’s
first Melbourne newspaper, the Advertiser, published
in 1838. It was in manuscript; whether written by
Fawkner or an employee nobody knows. Probably
not by Fawkner, because the penmanship is so very
good.' It can well be understood that the composi-
tion is by the proprietor himself —a roughly pic-
turesque style of writing, with a great shriek of
capitals. However, the news does not go for much.
Many people who have seen these lithographs are
under a delusion that they are originals. The
lithos. used to be sold for 6d. each. They are all of
issue No. 2. No. 1 is, I believe, irrecoverably lost.
I think a copy of No. 2, held by the Melbourne
Public Library, is an original. The local news is
months old, showing irregular publication. Fawkner
is a large advertiser, though not so large as Rucker.
I think he was Fawkner’s partner at the time. Of
course Batman is nowhere; always an enemy. He
claimed to have seen the site of Melbourne first,
when he said: “This will be a nice place for a vil-
lage.” The Advertiser notices that the wool ship
Hartley is laid on for London, and the cutter
Jemima for Launceston. The Lapwing schooner
trades to Geelong. A lady has lost a gold earring
at Batman’s Hill. Fawkner’s Hotel offers to the
lodgers a free use of the library of novels, theology,
poetry, history, philosophy, chemistry, and the en-
cyclopaedia. A number of these books are in the
Melbourne Public Library, with Fawkner’s auto-
graph. Weatherly, a baker, offers a month’s credit,
which seems rash on the part of Weatherly. The
blacksmith next to Fawkner’s will shoe horses for
7s. cash or 9s. credit. About a quarter of a century
ago, perhaps less, I saw a notification that Fawkner’s
hut, the first house built in Melbourne, was to be
destroyed. I tried to persuade people that it ought
to be taken to pieces and put up in the National
Museum, but could not find any backers. However,
I had a look at it, in the yard of the Union Club
Hotel, kept by Oscar Asche’s father. It appears
that Fawkner’s' Hotel was on that corner. Replaced
by the Shakspeare Tavern, and that replaced by the
Union Club. Fawkner’s hut was further interesting
as the locality of the first printing press. There is
a painting by Blamire Young in the Geelong
Museum, showing Fawkner pulling proofs. His
schooner, the Enterprise, was wrecked at Warrnam-
bool. There are said to be relics of her. They
ought to be in the Melbourne Museum.
“I shall always remember him as Calam-
ary Russell, or if he prefers the popular
name, he can call himself Squid Russell.”—
Tory Senator Vardon on a political oppon-
ent.
Senator Millen, pouring forth his an-
guished soul about the alleged gorgeousness
of Prime Minister Fisher during his visit to
England, said his retinue was “almost
worthy of an eastern potentate.” Where
Millen got his ideas re the special gorgeous-
ness of the presidents of Bolivia. Chili, Peru
and such-like places, it is difficult to guess.
They are really plain unpretentious men,
and don’t wear their best diamond nose-
rings at breakfast or put on the family
necklace at lunch time. The “eastern po-
tentates” should sue Millen for defamation.
James Rutherford, pioneer and head of
the firm of Cobb and Co., drove right out of
this world last week, aged 85. He came to
Victoria from America in 1852, and a little
later joined with Whitney, Robertson, Hall,
Bradley and others in taking over the busi-
ness of Cobb and Co. The new firm made it
the boss coaching concern of Australia. In
1862 Rutherford moved on to Bathurst
(N.S.W.), which was thereafter his home.
He was a staunch Protectionist, and, in
1873, with John Sutherland and others,
founded the Lithgow (N.S.W.) ironworks,
with a capital of £lOO,OOO. The cash petered
out in a few years, and another mint was
dumped into the business, which after a
while began to lift up its smoke-stacks a bit.
The works were afterwards leased, and then
sold to W. Sandford. Rutherford was one
of the biggest station-owners in N.S.W. and
Queensland. He leaves a widow and 10
children—five sons and five daughters.
“Tibsen” says a few words: —
“Mallarapoonie’s” appreciation of the late G. Y.
O’Connor, whom W.A. should have taken to its col-
lective bosom, but didn’t, ought to be framed by
every resident of the Groperian sand-patch who saw
the transition from the condenser days of the Gold-
fields to the time when he could revel in the joys
of a genuine wash. The spot where O’Connor’s effigy
has been reared, amid the smoke of steamers, the
rattle of waggons and the booming of the daily time-
gun, is a fit termination to the brutality of a bowel-
less people, who, spurred on by the shouts of a few
gutter journals, derided the efforts of the great man
until he gave up the ghost. Then it was too late to
repair the insult. What really actuated him to take
His own life is not known. Certainly it could not
have been any doubt as to the workableness of his
colossal Mundaring-Goldfields water scheme. His
engineering was too sound to raise any fear in his
own mind. A post mortem cannot reveal the worries
of a man who is not understood by minds incapable
of understanding anything they have not had
previous cognisance of. From the inception
of his wonderful scheme Charles Yelverton
O’Connor was ridiculed by 50 p.c. of the
populace, and pallid bank clerks, flushed book-
makers and other non-producing parasites shook their
heads in a way that was amazing to behold. It is a
wonder some of their heads _ did not _ fly off. They
continued their shriek of ridicule until the shudder-
some news of O’Connor’s death scared them into some-
thing like silence, and the completion of his scheme
shut them up for ever. I can’t say how the croakers
felt when, on a sweltering Saturday afternoon, the
representatives of every Government in the Common-
wealth assembled at Kalgoorlie to see Bigjohn Forrest
turn the water on, but I can put my hand on the
nearest Bible and say that, a day or two later, I
had the first decent bath I had known for years.
F.P. BOWDEN ,
Tasmania’s
Manager of
Telegraphs, and
Cricket
Enthusiast.
“Bro. Rabbet”
about certain
parsons:—
Some want to
make Pastor Ed-
gar the Methodist
Bishop of Mel-
bourne, on the
American prin-
ciple. He is nick-
named “the Bis-
hop” already. Mel-
bourne Methodism
lacks bite and
edge, impetus and
momentum. All
behind the Catho-
lics, Anglicans,
Presbyterians and
Baptists in pro-
gress. Too much
Fitchett and Sug-
den ; too hig h-
toned ; a good old
fanatical lea ven
wanted. Edgar is
anxious to retire
from the Central
Mission, and will
b e succeeded b y
McCallum, when
Mac's presidency is up. The next President will be
S. Adamson. Taylor, of Sydney, would do a power
of good by putting in a year at the Melbourne
Central Mission.
A candidate for the late Luxton’s seat in
the Victorian House of Rich Landlords is
Henry Skinner, the napoleonic Melbourne
caterer. Skinner is the great panjandrum
of South Melbourne football, and that at
least, suggests that he is a man of movement.
He is said to be launching out in other
directions besides buns, politics and ’ball.
A new picture theatre in Chapel-street,
Windsor, is the spec, of himself and a brother
licensed victualler.
JUDE
CHAPMAN
OF
MAO INLAND.
By The Bulletin’s Oldest Inhabitant:
An old Australian identity died at Melbourne re-
cently in his 81st year. This was William Henry
Stephen, only surviving son of Sydney Stephen, who
was a Supreme Court Judge in Maoriland many years
ago. Sydney Stephen was the eldest son of John
Stephen, an early Judge of New South Wales, and
brother of Alfred Stephen, who was Chief Justice and
Lieutenant-Governor of the Ma State for many years.
Three brothers of W. H. Stephen, James, Harry and
Francis (the later father-in-law of Chief Justice Mad-
den), predeceased him, as did his sisters Mrs. Carre
Riddell and Mrs. Hamilton. The lately-departed re-
tired from the post of Stock Inspector some 18 years
ago.
George Fowlds, of Maoriland, who has
resigned his several jobs of Minister for
Education, Minister for Immigration, Minis-
ter in charge of Mental Hospitals and Fire
Insurance Department, and Minister for Cus-
toms, after six years of administration, gave
lou ward a liob-nailed farewell in the Re-
presentatives a few days ago. Said he: —
Whenever a truly democratic party arises in this
country, a party pledged to definite principles, prin-
ciples which it believes in, and which it is prepared
to fight for, it shall have my whole-souled support,
and if it should become numerous enough to enable it
to form a Government and invites me to join it, my
services will be available.
When the mail left Labor was fitting the cap
on and accusing Fowlds of being a man of
sense and vast discernment. louseph’s
opinion wasn’t mentioned.
“Sr”: Re the sitting-rooms of M’s.P.
Father established one after he was elected
for the State constituency of Blight. That
was five years ago. You should see that
audience chamber now. It looks as though
a N.S.W. Assembly had been electing a
Speaker in it. In all those years it has
sustained an average of at least 10 callers a
day, not excluding Sundays. The civil ser-
vant is on top as the most regular wearer-
out of the sitting room. Policemen and
railway men lead the van in the matter of
grievances, with school-teachers next and
birth-registrars a good fourth. They take a
long time to explain what they want, and
they always have a big sheaf of documents
that have to be all looked through. You
can’t put them off with a promise to do your
best. They make an appointment for you
with the Minister or the head of their de-
partment. The civil servant lias worn out
at least two chairs and one-fifth of the car-
pet in our sitting-room. The best class of
wearers-out are those -who want money—the
indigent citizen in search of a pension, a
help from the local benevolent grant, a pass
to a hospital, a job or a meal. The “vag,” or
impostor, always cries first, lie wants to
pay back what you might please lend him.
He dodges your offer to obtain him work at
the bureau. He doesn’t want that exactly,
only something to see him over the week.
He always voted for you, and at the last
election he got 14 votes in one small street,
and he wants a loan of 30s. till next Friday
at 10 o clock. Cadgers, honest and otherwise,
have worn out about a third of the carpet.
The remaining seven-nfteenths is partly
hidden with the sofa, and the rest has capi-
tulated to the crank visitor. One young, well-
dressed fellow wanted to know how to learn
to get into Parliament by four months’ con-
tinuous study. We gave him an anonymous
letter to the sec. of the Wimmen’s National
Leg., and we presume he pulled it with
his novel tale. Blokes arrive with inven-
tions for reclaiming Port Phillip Bay ancT
turning it into a cow paddock. Coves with
unfittable keys and all the weird schemes of
the worst rejected patents come along. The
person who bears with him a halo of old
beer and wants thrippence to write home
to Hingland for his regular allowance, which
somehow didn’t turn up last week, would be
a bearable visitor only he spits in the hall.
The lies we tell to these folk and the bigger
ones they tell to us have also added to the
worn appearance of the sitting-room. Take
it for all in all, we had a better sitting-room
and a pleasanter home when the old man
was navvying.
BOYS: A LAMENT OR DIRGE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In the days F. Lassetter spent with the Melbourne
auctioneer he dined from a penn’orth of biscuits.
One day his master caught him lunching, and in-
quired what he was at. “I am at lunch, sir,” was
the innocent reply. “At lunch, Lassetter! Never
you dare eat lunch again while you are in my em-
ploy.” The boy stood astounded, and meekly poc-
keted the remains of his frugal meal. What « con-
trast with the average city boy of to-day! —S. M.'
Herald.
Ah, times ’as changed and morals too
Since them grand days of old,
When lads their proper places knoo,
And none was rude nor bold,
And working youngsters fairly floo
To do what they was told!
Strikes, graspin’ strikes, fer ’igher pay
And shorter ’ours bespeak
The lowered ethics o’ the day.
I mind when folks looked bleak,
Wot failed to get stout lads for, say,
A half-a-crown a week.
Then, boys toiled ’ard from six a.m.,
Till dusk suffused the street;
No cries of “sweater” came from them ;
They reckoned it a treat,
As gracious as some precious gem,
To be allowed to eat t
And as fer ’umbleness! Well, there !
Words fail me, and disgust
For modern manners ’its me fair.
The old-time lad, when cussed
Did not so much as frown or stare;
’E grovelled in the dust.
The Sosherlists ’ave spoiled our boys,
And all our profits shook;
But ’ere’s what Lib’ral peace destroys,
And makes the crowd go crook:
Our only ’age’s in bags o’ noise
Like Wade and Wood and Cook.
N.S.W.
RIGHT-THINKING CITIZEN.


WILL. S’ 3
SMOKING-
ZMIXTUREr
THE FAMOUS BRAND OF W. D. & H. 0. WILLS
CjWILLS’S “VICE-REGAL” is a Smoking
Mixture combining rare qualities of flavour
and richness, securely preserved in 1 oz. &
2oz. airtight tins, in two strengths—
Medium and Full.
/«{
f
A
A
i&i
m
m
4
&
r.
527©
The Gdfeo Smoke
|]l Where gather those men who delight
in a good game of Golf, no less
„ian a good smoke, there will be
found the most enthusiastic
devotees of "VICE-REGAL.


WORTHINGTON PUMPS
For
ALL SERVICES.
GAS ENGINES and PLANTS, OIL ENGINES, CONDENSING APPARATUS.
apply 32-34 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
PERKS, DANE & CO. PTY. LTD.
MELBOURNE
and SYDNEY.
“P.D.” Grease & "P.P.” Yarn
90 per cent, cheaper than any other system of lubrication.
PULL PARTICULARS ON APPLICATION. Sole Agents for Queensland, E.S.C.A., Ltd., Brisbane.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Melbourne Tramway and Omnibus Co.:—
Net Re-
serves, in-
cluding-
Dividends on Capi-
£2so,ooo Writ- Added talised
Actually Paid by ten to Re- Re-
June, Profits. Shareholders. Off. serves. serves.
1900.. 73,270 151 p.c. = 38,400 10,000 24,870 470,926
1901.. 107.505 24 „ „ 60,000 10,000 37,505 508,431
1902.. 92,538 24 ~ ~ 60,000 10,000 22,538 530,969
1903.. 80,944 19 ~ ~ 48,000 32,944 563,913
1904.. 24 „ ~ 60,000 44,579 608,492
1905.. 102,555 24 ~ ~ 60,000 42,555 651,047
1906 / 131 - 649 24 >. ~60,000 71,649 \ ...
I Overpaid municipal r tes .. 24,758/
1907.. 137,661 £2B 8/- = 72,000 65,661 813,115
1908. .148,315 38 8/- ~ 96,000 52,315 865,430
1909.. 163,578 38 8/- ~ 96,000 67,578 933,008
1910.. 172,962 38 8/- ~96,000 76,962 1,009,970
1911.. 797.38 8/- ~96,000 125,797 1,135,767
This co. got a 32 years’ lease of the Melbourne a-nd
certain suburban tram lines dating from July 1,
1884. A municipal Trust was formed to build the
lines; and the co., in return for the lease, undertook
(1) to pay interest on the capital borrowed by the
Trust and spent on the lines ; (2) to provide a sink-
ing fund to extinguish the Trust’s debt; and (3) to
keep the lines in repair and hand them back
in good working condition. The co. has had no diffi-
culty in thus far fulfilling the first and second con-
ditions ; and not only the interest payments but the
sinking fund contributions as well are deducted
from the profits shown above. Looking at the tram-
ways as a single business undertaking, the results for
the past three years would show up as follows:
1908. 1910. 1911.
Profit as shown above .. £148,315 £172,962 £221,797
Sinking fund for Trust .. 45,000 45,000 49,500
Interest on Trust’s debts 74,250 74,250 74,250
Total net revenue £267,565 £292,212 £345,547
The lease expires in 1916 ; the co. has undertaken
to hand over the lines in good order on June 30 in
that year. So far as it has any right to assume, it
will therefore cease to exist in less than five years
from the present.
The question of interest to the investor is, How will
it come out of the business, and what are its pros-
pects for the five years ? All it will have to hand
over is the permanent way and certain fixed plant.
This property does not, of course, appear in the co.’s
balance-sheet. Its own assets (gross and net) are
shown hereunder:—
1909. 1910. 1911.
Liquid assets.. .. £995.415 £1,023,708 £1,152,249
Freeholds .. .. 244,507 248,641 247.018
Other property .. 149,541 156,116 157,953
Total .. £1,389,463 £1,428,465 £1,557,220
Less (Jpbts .. 212,878 145,310 155,795
Surplus .. £1.176,585 £1,283,155 £1,401,425
There are a few leaseholds ( £8342) ; but they have
been disregarded in this last compilation. “Other
property” consists of cars, tools, ropes, furniture,
horses, etc.; and The Bulletin doesn’t, Of course,
know whether they will be worth £157,953 when
the co. hands the undertaking over. The chances
are that the co. will be in a position to drive a
pretty good bargain; for, though the municipalities
or State may resolve to proceed with an electric
scheme as soon as this co. is cleared out of the way.
the change over will take time, and meanwhile
plant, etc., will be needed. If, then, the assets are
accepted as being worth their book value, the posi-
tion is that on June 30 there was £1 9s. 2d. per
share in hand. Further, there are the five years’
prospects to consider. In the past two years
£224,840 has been added to the surplus of liquid
assets, or at the rate of £562,100 for five years;
and that is equal to another 11s. Bd. per share.
Moreover, that £224,840 has been added in two
years after paying a dividend of £96,000 a year.
Nominally, this is at the rate of 20 p.c., but it is
at the rate of over 38 p.c. on the amount actually
paid up by shareholders, £230,000 of the capital
(of £480,000) having been transferred from re-
serves.
There are other possibilities, however. It may be
that, instead of the co. getting its lease extended,
as it no doubt hoped at one time that it would, it
may be cordially invited to leave before June, 1916.
Recently the Government appointed a Commission—
with Swinburne, M.L.A., of many Private Enter-
prise concerns, as chairman —to consider Melbourne’s
tramways from several aspects; and its conclusion
was that the sooner the co. put on its hat and left,
the better it would be for the city. Still, it will
have to be bought out, for there is, apparently, no
power to dispossess it; Parliament made a horrible
mistake 26 years ago, and this generation has to
pay for the blunder. What the payment amounts to
may be judged by the fact that the shareholders
put up only £250,000; and the public last year
paid so much for the poor service rendered by the
co., that the profits, after paying interest on the
Trust’s debt, amounted to £271,297. If Private
Enterprise reckons that that is a fair thing to make
the public pay for an every-day necessary, like city
and suburban transport—well, so much the worse
for Private Enterprise.
* * * *
The Victoria Life and General Insurance
Co. (Melbourne): —
Funds
(apart
Ex- Dividends, from
June, Income. Claims, penses. etc. Capital).
1901 .. £14,050 £11,506 £1484 25 p.c. = £lO,OOO £299,613
1902 .. 13,068 9.179 1419 25 „ „ 10,000 292,083
1903.. 12,434 10,146 1535 25 „„ 10,000 \ p „ ft
Written off securities, £20,000 / " ’
1904.. 11,976 9,776 1426 25 p.c. = 10,000 (
Written off securities, £lO,OOO f
1905 .. 11,587 14,294 1330 25 p.c. = 10,000 229,573
1906 .. 12,270 13,193 1540 25 ~ ~ 10,000 217,110
1907 .. 11,468 9,525 1281 25 „ „ 10,000 207,772
1908 .. 11,478 10,490 1308 25 „ „ 10,000 197,452
1909 .. 10,869 7,876 1286 25 ~ „ 10,000 189,159
1910.. 10,253 12,906 1186 37*,,,, 15,000 170,320
1911.. 11,330 11,783 1191 62* „ „ 25,000 143,676
This co., having issued no policies for 21 years, is
now entitled to change its name; and this paper
suggests the Victoria Death and General Resurrec-
tion Co. It is really a sort of undertaker, though it
doesn’t want its clients to die —it wants them to
go on living and paying premiums. It was formed
62 years ago, in days when nobody suggested that
Private Enterprise couldn’t do the thing better. It
is true that the A.M.P. had just previously arrived
on the scene; but the A.M.P. was small potatoes in
those days, and the public hadn’t been educated up
to insurance co-operation and profit-sharing. By-
and-bye, realising that its cake was going to be
dough, this co. decided to give up the costly pursuit
of new business; and ever since then it has been
pocketing the surplus premiums, and its fat share-
holders have been getting fatter and fatter. The
reserves are made up as follows: Assurance fund,
£131,227; contingency and reserves, £12,314; un-
appropriated profit, £135. Theoretically, the as-
surance fund is the exact provision to meet liabilities
under policies ; but the chances are that the majority
of the persisting policy-holders have lived beyond
their expectation of life, and that means so much
more unexpected premium income, and so much more
profit for this lucky co. What it will draw out of
the concern is, therefore, still an unknown quantity.
Its funds are nowadays nearly all in public securi-
ties and cash ; a mere £8952 is in house property,
and £28,849 is out on mortgage; so there isn’t
much likelihood of a heavy loss on the sale of
securities. In fact, it realised £2314 as surpluses
on sales last year.
* * * *
The Victoria Insurance Co. (Melbourne)
To Re- Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
1901.. £17,374 27 p.c. = £13,481 £3,893 £58,646
1902.. 23,923 27 ~ „ 13,481 10,442 69,088
1903.. 28.195 36 ~ „ 17,975 10,220 79,50 S
1904.. 28,068 36 „ „ 17,975 10,093 89,401
1905.. 27,571 36 „ „ 17,975 9,506 98,997
1906.. 28,330 36 ~ ~ 17,975 10,355 109,352
1907.. 22,762 36 „ „ 17,975 4,787 114,139
1908.. 14,723 36 ~ „ 17,975 110,887
1909.. 23,058 36 „ ~ 17,975 5,083 115,970
1910.. 16,351 27 „ „ 13,481 2,870 118,840
1911.. 29,049 36 ~ „ 17,975 11,074 129,914
This co. was formed in 1879, to take over the fire
and marine business of the Victoria Life and Gen-
eral Insurance Co. and Savings Institute. Its second
annual report showed a gross premium income of
£144,879; to-day, 30 years later, the gross income
is no more than £167,242, notwithstanding the enor-
mous expansion of business and the vast increase of
insurable property in Australia. The truth seems
to be that the co. was born with fat dividends hang-
ing all round its cradle. In the very first year of
its life it paid a div. of 100 p.c., and it went on
doing so for some years. This affluence spoiled it;
for mere hustling was beneath its dignity. Almost
worse even than that, when it found that a lot of
its assets had been blown away in boom froth, and
when keener competitors pushed into the field, it
didn’t know how to pull its dividend down to a fair
thing. In the early days of the co. the 10s. shares
were quoted at £7, by reason of the bloated divi-
dend; and people who paid £7 for a 10s. share only
got a 3i p.c. return out of a 50 p.c. dividend. So
the div. was kept up preposterously; and the public
soon realised that the money that was divided among
shareholders couldn’t also be available for the pro-
tection of policy-holders. Hence, considering its
opportunities, the co. made wretched progress—or no
progress at all —for many years. Latterly, it has
woke up to some extent, though there is still a good
deal of the old leaven in the lump. It does a con-
siderable marine business, and that explains some
of the high loss rate. On the other hand, that sort
of business —which usually falls in in large masses —•
partly explains why the expense rate is compara-
tively low. Sixteen years’ history is shown in this
table: —
Net Ex- Expense Loss
premiums, penses. Losses. Rate. Rate.
1895.. £66,472 £15,297 £35,437 23'0 p.c. 53'3 p.c.
1900.. 82,217 19,080 46,405 23’2 „ 56’4 „
1905.. 82,276 22,544 36,710 27'4 „ 44-6 „
1908.. 91,304 23,295 58,425 25'5 „ 64’0 ~
1909.. 90,619 24,016 48,835 26‘4 ~ 53‘9 ~
1910.. 94,870 25,471 58,192 26‘8 ~ 613 „
1911.. 104,006 26,715 54,332 257 ~ 52‘2 „
In spite of the big divs., reserves have grown faster
than the business; and that is a good thing from
the insurer’s point of view, because the fewer
people to be protected by the co.’s funds, the more
certain the insurer can be that the funds will go
round in the event of any big disaster. Further, to
add to the extremely comfortable feeling of the in-
surer, the assets are an unusually liquid lot. Loans
on mortgage, in which some cos. have so large a
proportion of their funds tied up, represent in this
case less than 5 p.c. of the assets, while liquid assets
(mostly deposits and public securities) represent
over 70 p.c. If it knew how to hustle harder, the
co. would no doubt soon put itself into a position
where both shareholders and insurers would have to
risk more; but while the risk might be more, the
increased profits should beat the other growth hollow.
* * * *
The Victoria General Insurance and
Guarantee Co. (Melbourne): —
Added to Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1901.. £4741 20 per cent. = £4OOO £741 £11,979
1902.. 4301 20 „ „ 4000 301 12,280
1903.. 3957 20 ~ ~ 4000 12,237
1904.. 3736 20 ~ „ 4000 11,973
1905.. 3334 15 „ „ 3000 334 12,307
1906.. 3534 15 ~ „ 3000 534 12,841
1907.. 3845 15 ~ ~ 3000 845 13,686
1908.. 4216 20 ~ ~ 4000 216 13,902
1909.. 3340 15 „ „ 3000 340 14,242
1910.. 2799 10 ~ „ 2000 799 15,041
Reinsurance fund disclosed .. 2161 17,202
1911.. 3971 15 per cent. = 3000 971 18,173
This co. was formed 22 years ago to take over some
of the odds and ends of the Victoria Life and Gen-
eral Insurance Co. when the latter decided to die a
lingering but remunerative death. The parent was a
person of large dividends, and the infant early con-
tracted the habit; consequently it has accumulated
poor reserves, for you can’t have your profits and eat
them too. The public naturally won’t flock of its
own accord to insurance offices with poor reserves,
and this concern hasn’t had the driving habit; so
the premium income has actually shrunk during the
past few years:—
Pre- Ex- Expense Loss
miums. penses. Losses. Rate. Rate.
1900.. £11,324 £2864 £6387 25 4 p.c. 56'4 p.c.
1905.. 9,443 2973 4429 31‘5 „ 46'9 „
1908.. 8,971 2783 3331 31'T „ 37’1 „
1909.. 8,648 2843 3805 321) „ 44’0 ~
1910.. 7,324 2007 3814 27'3 „ 52'0 „
1911.. 8,127 1920 3521 23’6 „ 43'3 „
The expense rate is low; this is no doubt due chiefly
to the fact that the co. does not pursue business
ravenously. It is quite an easy matter to show a
low expense rate in any business, if you are content
to let the business run down. Also, this co. probably
does some reinsurance business; and that, while
helping to explain the low expense rate, also explains
the rather high loss rate. The co.’s paid capital is
£20,000; and this and its reserves are satisfactorily
represented by cash (£11,435), public securities
( £15,914) and real estate ( £12,040).
* * * •
Elder, Smith and Co., Ltd. (Adelaide), pas-
toral finance and woolbroking people:—
Written To Re- Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1900.. £28,631 9p.c. = £17,100 £11,531 £35,454
1901.. 25,283 9 „ „ 17,100 £5OOO 3,183 38,637
1902.. 28,078 9 „ ~ 17.100 6396 4,582 43,219
1903.. 29,964 9 „ „ 17,100 5000 7,864 51,083
1904.. 33,967 9 ~ „ 17,100 5000 11,867 62,950
1905.. 36,532 10 ~ ~ 19,000 4000 13,532 76,482
1906.. 45,940 10 „ „ 19,000 3000 23,940 100,422
1907.. 60,674 10 ~ ~ 19,667 1500 39,507 139,929
1908.. 43,457 10 ~ „ 25,000 18,457 158.386
1909.. 51,266 10 ~ ~ 25,000 26,266 184 652
1910.. 59,521 10 „ „ 29,991 29,530 214,182
1911.. 73,784 10 ~ ~ 30,000 43,784 257,966
This co. was formed in 1888 to take over Elder’s
Wool and Produce Co., for the goodwill of which it
paid £40,856. That original co. was in 20,000
shares of £lO, paid to £2 10s. The new co. issued
80,000 more shares, making the total 100,000. For
many years the new shares were paid to £1 155.;
then 15s. was called, making them all paid to
£2 10s.; and a couple of years ago a further 10s.
was got in, making all paid to £3, and liable for
another £7. It is very probable that some
of this will be called up shortlv. The co.
has been very prudently managed, 'and, helped
by a wonderful run of good seasons, has put
itself into a strong position, notwithstanding
the heavy losses which it sustained in cht
90’s. In the past 10 years, while it has paid
£218,958 in dividends, it has put £219,329 to re-
serves ; and that is in addition to various liberal
amounts written off. Goodwill has long since en-
tirely disappeared from the accounts; and land,
premises and plant, which cos+ £200,094, have been
written down to £133,024. All this points to
sound finance. Certainly, since the co. works to a
great extent upon borrowed money, much of which
is let out on pastoral securities of one sort and an-
other, very substantial reserves are called for. This
is in the interests of the shareholders more than of
the depositors and other creditors, inasmuch as the
latter are already pretty well protected by the share
capital called( £300,000), and unealled( £700,000).
The extent of the liabilities and some other particu-
lars are shown next: —
1900. 1908. 1909. 1910. 1911.
£ £ £ £ £
Deposits,
etc. .. 474,068 941,662 1,055,480 1,260,155 1,715,863
Other lia-
bilities 79,672 216,290 190,870 238,602 280,959
Premises,
plant.. 57,268 78,756 79,195 104,340 133,024
Govt, stock,
cash.. 235,173 187,473 339,590 632,029 475,393
Advances,
etc. .. 414,844 1,144,855 1,046,553 1,114,872 1,656,905
Other
assets 53,299 167,754 228,164 176,698 304,466
The total liabilities are thus £1,996,822. Public
securities and cash, plus amounts in transit and other
assets which may be reasonably called liquid, total
£779,869, and equal 39 p.c. of the liabilities. It
looks a safe proportion; still one can’t say much
about that until one knows the nature of the liabili-
ties. These are equal to about £3 12s. in propor-
tion to every £ 1 of the shareholders’ own funds;
or, put in another way, the co. has over £1,099,000
of other people’s money in “advances, goods, etc.,”
apart from advances on produce shipments. For a
co., with capital and reserves totalling £557,966.
this is a very weighty responsibility ; and, as before
remarked, a very weighty reserve fund is in con-
sequence a desirable thing to have on the premises.
It isn’t at all safe to regard the big profits as having
been fully earned until the next drought comes
along. In a pastoral finance co. the lean must be
taken with the fat. Just at present only the fat is
visible. But the lean is in the bag all right ; and
the co. that realises it, and puts by a big proportion
of the fat to meet future probable losses, is the co.
that is going to feel least sorry for itself by-and-bye.
* * * *
The Pastoral Finance Association (Sydney):
Bonus
to Wool-
selling To
Visible Share- Written Reduce
June, Profits, holders. Off. Deficit. Deficit.
1901 £25,925
1902 .. £2,530 £1037 £1493 24,432
1903.. 1,611 915 696 23,736
1904.. 3,117 1129 1988 21,748
1905 .. 3,983 1411 £2OOO 572 21,176
1906 .. 10,675 1819 8856 12,320
1907 .. 10,983 1982 9001 3,319
Divi- To Re- Re-
dends. serves, serves.
1908 .. 6,668 1663 Nil 5005 1,686
1909.. 13,749 1624 5 p.c. = £6307 5818 7,504
1910.. 12,418 2140 5 „ ~ 6307 3971 11,475
1911 .. 9,660 2018 5 „ „ 6307 1335 12,810
This and other selling brokers, who work on a fixed
commission, suffered last season from the poor prices
got for wool—poor, that is, by comparison with the
high rates of the two previous seasons. Hence the
shrinkage in the year’s profits. Besides its wool-
selling business this co. carries on a frozen-meat
export trade: it has freezing works at Gunnedah,
Young and Dubbo, and a dep6t at North Sydney.
This department’s profits were also cut into during
the year by a slaughtermen’s strike. And under
the best of circumstances profits are never tremen-
dous. The co. was handicapped for very many years
by having about £25,000 of its capital unrepre-
sented by tangible assets, while the rest of its capital
and part of its liabilities were represented by the
expensive buildings that look across at Circular
Quay from the North side of Sydney Harbor, and
seem to be asking in a pale-faced sort of way how
they ever came to be put there. Probably the people
who built these premises were merely 50 years or so
ahead of their time. They saw that the wool and
produce trade of Sydney would soon have to be
shifted from Circular Quay; they saw that the
Redfern bottle-neck wouid soon be horribly con-
gested ; and they concluded that the natural thing
would be to bring the northern wool, etc., down
by train from Hornsby to Milson’s Point, and get
the rest of the goods across to the north side of
the Harbor somehow. It may come some day; but
for the present the trade, driven out of Circular
Quay, has been sent around to Darling Harbor, and
the P.F.A. premises remain the one solitary wool
warehouse across the water. And, in spite of its
expensive water-side premises that have the Admiral
for a neighbor, the P.F.A. has been compelled to fol-
low the stream, and provide itself with other accom-
modation for its produce department at Darling Har-
bor. All this has meant a very large sum, not of share
capital only, but of borrowed money as well, sunk in
premises which no doubt give but a poor return.
The capital required to finance the business has had
to be borrowed, too. Hence in one way and another,
the liabilities are very solid indeed. This shows the
debts and the assets:—
1902. 1909. 1910. 1911.
£ £ £ £
Mortgages, deben-
tures, etc 102,217 57,453 75,966 70,549
Other debts .. .. 17,077 16,895 47,107 70,109
Freeholds, plant, etc. 125,700 133,538 157,997 178,008
Advances .. .. 87,412 74,287 103,019 105,856
Stocks.. .. .. 3,111 6,280 5,788 1,554
Besides the troubles in connection with its own
property-investments, it got into the usual morass in
the days of the pastoral boom, and was left struggling
with numerous dead horses hanging on its feet. In
its first 17 years it thus paid only three divs. It
worked down its advances gradually—partly, no doubt,
by writing them off out of undivided profits—but the
total has been swinging along again at a speed that
will attract the notice of the traffic constable
presently. Considering the risk that this means,
there ought to be a great deal more profit in the
business, and there ought to be a much bigger lay-by
to meet the unpleasant contingencies that will be
pretty sure to poke their nose in when the first
drought happens. Certainly there may be an internal
reserve; in fact, its existence is hinted at. But in
the absence of any definite information about its
size, it can’t be safely accepted as a thoroughly
effective shield.
* * * *
The Austral Hat Mills, Ltd. (Melbourne),
which began with a deficit of £273, representing
preliminary exes.:—
Dividends,
-■ A Written Re-
June, Profits. Pref. Ord. Off. serves.
1908.. £2282 7p.c. = £224 10p.c.=£95 £437 £1251
1909.. 1612 7 „ ~1190 3£„ „175 174 1324
1910.. 2559 7 ~ ~ 1190 10 „ ~500 269 1924
1911.. 2678 7£„ ~ 1275 10).- „ ~525 412 2390
This co. was formed in 1907 with a canital of
£22,000, in £1 shares, of which the public took
17,000 cumulative preference, and 5000 ordinaries
went to the old proprietary co. The old co. took
nothing for goodwill, but had the right to call for
another 5000 ordinary shares at par. The pref. shares
are entitled to a first 7 p.c.; ordinaries then take
up to 10 p.c.; after that the two lots share alike.
It is now proposed, and practically agreed, to make
all shares of the one denomination. The prefs.,
under this arrangement, will relinquish their right to
a first bite; on the other hand, the ordinaries will
relinguish their right to a bite of 10 p.c., while the
prefs. are feeding on 7 p.c. It seems a fair arrange-
ment ; in fact, all through, the old co. —which is
largely represented on the Board—has shown a dis-
position to do the strictly fair thing:. Simultane-
ously, it has been decided to issue another 8000 shares
at a premium of 2s. 6d., and this issue has been
over-subscribed. The net premium will come in very
to strenguien the reserves, which are not
what they ought to be. The extra capital is wanted
badly. At the end of the co.’s first year its total
liabilities were £213, and it had £3461 of cash in
JV* ncl - Trade has, however, improved very much since
tne;n, and the outlook for Australian manufactures has
steadily improved. For one thing, the co., on the
merits of its goods, secured the contract for hatting
the Commonwealth’s baby army. That meant not
only more plant, but also a bigger stock of materials ;
wherefore on June 30 the liabilities totalled £19,414,
while the cash in hand had shrivelled to £49B—
lodged on deposit for the performance of con-
tracts. It is a matter for regret that the div. has
been put up (8 p.e. is paid on prefs. for the past
half-year, and 11 p.c. on ordinaries). But the way
of the Australian manufacturer hasn’t been an eas'v
one. This country, while calling for Protection, has
got into the vicious habit of returning Freetraders,
either because they are ancient institutions, or because
they yelled Anti-Sosh, or threatened to do something
drastic to the Pope ; and the natural result has been
that the Australian investor has never been sure of
getting enough Protection to hold the trade. There-
fore, in good times the manufacturer has got into
the habit of declaring dazzling divs., with the object
of capturing fresh capital when circumstances have
demanded it. It has nearly always meant deplorably
weak reserves; but the brick that in ordinary cir-
cumstances would be thrown at the management,
ought, for the reasons mentioned above, to hit the
fool-public which votes for Freetraders, and then ex-
pects them to hatch out Protection. And if there is
half a brick to spare it belongs to the patriot who
yells for Australian manufactures, and then buys the
goods that are offered by the foreigner who has his
fingers on the Australian manufacturer’s throat.
Standard Mutual Building Society (Melb.):
Profit on Writ-
Property ten Re-
Profits. Sales. Dividends. Off. serves.
July, 1904.. £1986 £534 6 p.c. = £1434 £338 £15,148
Jan., 1905.. 2076 221 6 „ „ 1434 16,011
July, 1905.. 1880 170 6 ~ „ 1434 258 16,369
Jan., 1906.. 1869 441 6 „ ~ 1434 17,945
July, 1906.. 1789 317 7J ~ „ 1752 200 17,399
Jan., 1907.. 2087 581 7£ ~ „ 1752 18,315
July, 1907.. 1958 313 7| „ „ 1752 150 18,684
Jan., 1908.. 1952 288 7£ „ „ 1752 19,172
July, 1908.. 2102 753 8 ~ „ 1912 700 19,415
Jan., 1909 . 2009 379 8 „ „ 1912 19,891
July, 1909.. 2211 161 8 ~ „ 1912 20,351
Jan., 1910.. 2319 294 8 ~ „ 1912 21,052
July, 1910.. 2233 1239 8 ~ ~ 1912 501 22,111
Jan., 1911... 2342 1043 8 ~ ~ 1912 23,584
July, 1911.. 2626 1710 8 „ „ 1912 26,008
It is just a little over 10 years ago since this so-
ciety went to Justice Holroyd and said it felt better,
thank you. It was the old story. First it had a
glorious drunk and pawned everything, and ran up
a fine score on the slate. “Pay up!” said Bung.
“Cer’nly! Pay you ’morrow. Pay auyshing.
Heapsh money ’morrow.” As a matter of fact, it
agreed to pay the depositors, etc., in seven years,
and meantime allow 5 p.c. interest. Presently it
felt sober and sorry ; and with a dreadful head, and a
brown lime-kiln in its mouth, it declared that it was
sure it wouldn’t be able to pay for years and years,
and nothing more than 2i p.c. interest was possible.
Finally, 10 years ago, it felt better, and asked the
Court to sanction a new arrangement. It offered, if
it were allowed to go ahead again, to write off half
its capital, clean up the balance-sheet, and pay its
old creditors 4 p.c. interest. The scheme was sanc-
tioned, the writing-down was done, and this shows
most of what has happened since:—
July,’ol. July, TO. Jan.,’ll. July,’ll
Liabilities .. £37,015 £30,865 £33,188 £35,877
Advances .. 19,998 62,841 70,455 80,388
Foreclosures.. 72,305 38,899 35,266 30,973
Cash, etc. .. 2,778 946 911 234
The years have suited the co. right down to the
ground. Ten years ago it had £72,305 of the old
foreclosed properties on its hands. To-day, though
no doubt a few have fallen in meantime, the total is
only £30,973. The £42,000 or so that has been
realised has gone into new advances. The surplus
profits have gone the same way; and those profits
have been considerably swollen by the sale of pro-
perties at more than their written-down values.
These consistent surpluses speak well for the value
of the properties that remain on hand. And, any-
way, they are not dead properties; last half-year
the net rents were £ll2O, or at the rate of 6} p.c.
on book value. That doesn’t look like over-valua-
tion. Probably nowadays there is more risk in the
new advances; for, instead of being written-down,
many of them have been made during a period of
high prices. (The best proof of the high prices is
that the co.’s own assets have been realising so
much more than they were valued at a few years
ago.) The reserves are, however, substantial; and
they ought to be ample to protect the capital, even
in the event of a pretty bad slump, unless the man-
agement has been far less careful than it seems to
have been.
* * * *
Swallow AND Ariell, Ltd. (Melbourne), manu-
facturers of foodstuffs :
Added Reserves
to Re- (Nomi-
April, Profits. Dividends. serves. nal).
1900.. £6,359 2\ p.c. = £3648 £2,711 £31,235
1901.. 7,124 2j ~ ~ 3648 3,476 34,711
1902.. 15,883 3f „ „ 5473 10,410 45,121
Loss.
1903.. 4,097 Nil 41,024
1904.. 15,420 Nil 25,604
Profits.
1905.. 10,658 Nil 10,658 36,262
1906.. 12,140 11 p.c. = 1824 10,316 46,578
1907.. 12,209 2J „ „ 3648 8,561 55,139
1908.. 2,234 21 ~ „ 3648 53,725
1909.. 9,696 21 „ „ 3648 6,048 59,773
1910.. 12,167 3| „ „ 5473 6,694 66,467
1911.. 17,169 51 „ „ 8209 8,960 75,427
This co. was formed in 1888. Melbourne was look-
ing at things through a champagne glass; and, after
taking the observation, it mostly waved its hand in
the usual lordly way, and said, “Do the thing
properly!” The thing was usually done very
properly. This co.’s first balance-sheet showed most
of the assets in a lordly lump—“ Original purchase
of freehold properties, machinery, horses, rolling
stock and goodwill, £148,500.” Presumably the
goodwill stood for a very solid sum. The capital
paid up was £134,922 ; so the amount subscribed
wasn’t enough to pay even for the one item men-
tioned above. The capital to represent stock, book
debts, and plant and property additions had therefore
to be borrowed. Liabilities at the outset were about
£76,000, and before long they reached £lOO,OOO.
Trade, moreover, wasn’t presently as good as it
should have been, considering the high quality of
the co.’s manufactures; to a great extent the co.
was a pioneer in the tinned foodstuffs which the bad
Australian thinks must be all the better for a
long voyage. Fortunately that bad Australian isn't
as numerous as he used to be; but while he was
numerous he added himself to this co.’s other
troubles. Also, the co., trying to protect itself
against a threatened rise in the price of its raw
material, laid in heavy stocks, and then found that
the market slithered down instead of up. Thus, be-
tween one thing and another —heavy goodwill, heavy
debts, wicked prejudice against Australian goods,
and unfortunate speculations in foodstuffs —Swallow
and Ariell had a pretty bad innings; and there was
a time when, in view of those things, and the con-
tingent liability, £1 shares were sold for Id. The
last few years have shown great changes. Federa-
tion threw open the markets of Australia to the
co.’s goods; the stupid old prejudice which im-
pelled people to buy marmalade from sorye foreign
factory that never saw an orange tree in its life, is
rapidly disappearing; the co. has kept its dividend
down to a very modest figure, and has thus very
much improved its finances; and good times have
improved trade enormously. Even now, however,


You cannot
Control your
Executor
and you therefore want one com-
bining Strength and Security
with technical knowledge and
business ability, so that your
Estate will be safeguarded and
preserved for the benefit of your
heirs. This can be best ensured
by appointing
Perpetual Trustee
Company (Limited)
Reasonable Charges.
Booklet on application.
2, 4 & 6 SPRING STREET,
SYDNEY.
GREENING’S
SCREENING.
Agate Steel, Phosphor,
Bronze, Brass.
Write for particulars to
FRASER & CHALMERS LTD.,
Equitable Building, Melbourne;
Macdonald Street, Kalgoorlie;
New Zealand: D. M. DAVIS, Agent, Hall of
Commerce, High Street, Auckland. [2
Every engineer in charge of factories and mills
should give close attention to the power wasted in
transmission of power. The Hyatt Flexible Roller
Bearings save 20 per cent, power and 75 per cent,
of oil, so one of the first duties is naturally for
engineers to direct their special attention to these
bearings and to car boxes for trucks. Hyatts are
in continuous use in Cement Works, Ore Dressing
Mills, Factories, etc., in Australia. Bushings oi
flexible rollers may be applied to loose pulleys or
truck wheels, etc. Should engineers require further
details, they can apply to the Australian Agents,
W. & J. Lempriere, Melbourne; or E. W. Hurst-
house and Co., of Wellington, the agents in New
Zealand.*
“FERRODOR” Paint.—Specially manufactured for
preserving galvanised iron and steel. Unaffected by
sea air, sulphur fumes, cyanogen gases. Used on
Princes and Victoria Bridges, P. and O. and N.D.L.
steamers, etc. Covers 1000 sq. yds. per cwt. WM.
ADAMS & CO., LTD., 175 Clarence Street, Sydney.*
The undisputed benefit of asbestos covering for
steam-pipes and boilers has been exemplified by a re-
cent scientific treatise of the principles of steam
conveyance. Tests made have established the fact
that 100 square feet of pipe covered with this
material, at a pressure of 2001 b. per square inch, and
coal at 16s. per ton, will save £7 per year, and
prevent loss of pressure equal to 13.84 B. Th. U. per
square foot per minute. Bell’s Asbestos Non-con-
ducting Composition, supplied in cwt. bags, or
applied by experienced workmen at contract rates.
Bell’s Asbestos, Ltd., 315 Kent Street, Sydney.*
Professor Richards, in the revised edition of his
celebrated edition of “Ore Dressing,” 1909, devotes
14 pages to the Wilfley concentrating table, and,
among other things remarks (p. 1465): “The first
table sold was installed in the Puzzle Mill, at Breck-
enridge, Colorado. Since then over 12,000 have been
sold. This machine has revolutionised ore-dressing,
and as such is a phenomenal success. The original
form, and forerunner of all modern shaking tables
with longitudinal riffles . . has been greatly improv-
ed.” And further on (p. 1478) remarks: “One feature
of the Wilfley table to which especial attention should
be called is its ability to separate sands from slimes
while making the ordinary concentration. This sep-
aration is more complete and thorough than can be
made by any classifier, and should be taken advant-
age of in designing mills.” In the extensive addi-
tions just made to the Golden Horseshoe Mine (W.A.)
a large number of Wilfley Concentrators have been
installed. The Austral Otis Engineering Company,
Limited, South Melbourne, have the sole manufac-
turing rights.* [1
FOR SALE Cheap, Second-Hand, 15 Break lI.P.
T’angye Gas Engine, in good order. Apply Manager,
Bulletin Office, 214 George Street, Sydney.*
Extract from the Financial News, London
(29/7,V910) : “The bonus is one of the best yet de-
clared, and, in the opinion of the actuary, ‘the pros-
pects of distributing satisfactory bonuses in the
future are better now than they ever were before.’
The Colonial Mutual has certainly earned its repu-
tation for financial strength and fair treatment of
policy-holders.” *
PIONEER WOOD PIPE has three things to recom-
mend it in preference to metal pipe; it is more
economical, more durable, and has greater carrying
capacity. Catalogues may be obtained from the
manufacturers, the Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd.,
Balmain.*
Mine Managers, Engineers.—Do you want a first-
class Pneumatic Tool, Machine, or an Air Com-
pressor. Ask for the NILES. BOHLER BROS. AND
CO., LTD., 1 Angel Place, Pitt Street, Sydney, and
183 Queen Street, Melbourne, will provide you with
it. Also with Castings, solid and hollow Miners’
Drill Steel, Cast Steel for all purposes, Motor-car
Steels, Tools, etc.*
F. DANVERS POWER, mining engineer, is pre-
pared to purchase approved MINING properties. Ad-
dress: National Mutual Chambers, Pitt and Bond
Streets, Sydney.*
* * * *
Nobel’s Explosives are the best and most re-
liable. We are agents for the original makers,
Hamburg. Large stocks on hand. Contracts at low
rates. WM. ADAMS & CO., LTD., 175 Clarence
Street. Sydney.* *
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
If so, write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address, 163 King
Street, Sydney, and 9 Queen Street, Melbourne.* U
* * * *
For driving bands, conveyor and elevator belting
of all kinds, Hopkins Bros, and Odium Prop., Ltd.,
Leicester Street, Carlton, Melbourne. Leading
machine belting manufacturers. With largest stocks
and factory in the Commonwealth. Invite enquiries.
Leather belting (Australian and English) all sizes
stocked. Genuine British Balata and Taylors’
Patent Faced Camel Hair Belting, all widths up to
18in. Conveyor belting a specialty for ore, sand,
metal, coal. Write for price-lists and discounts.
Agents wanted.*
* * * *
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co. Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modern scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne.*
* * * *
Mine managers when requiring air compressors,
either belt, steam, or electrically driven, should not
fail to inspect the Reavell Air Compressor, when they
will be impressed by its simplicity, compactness and
portability. Owing to the working parts being en-
tirely enclosed it can be placed to work on any part
of the mine, either on the surface or underground.
The number of repeat orders which Messrs. Reavell
have received from the mining community proves
how greatly their compressor is appreciated. The
representatives for Australia are Messrs. Babcock
and Wilcox, Haymarket, Sydney.* [2
* * * *
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign Patents obtained.
Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Melbourne, and
Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write us for In-
ventors’ Guide.*
Assayers, Mine Managers, and Prospectors
write to H. B. Silberberg and Co., 443 Bourke
Street, Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining
requisites and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc
pulverisers to 200 mesh; hand sample grinders to
120 mesh; Ainsworth’s assay balances sensitive to
1/13000 grain; prospector’s balances to 1/1000
grain ; weight; pocket transits ; gasoline combination
furnaces ; Morgan’s crucibles ; chemicals ; etc.*
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire .
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
the co. can’t entirely do without the bank, though
the debt is not very heavy. This shows: —
Liabilities.
1905. 1908. 1910. 1911.
Capital .. .. £145,953 £145,953 £145,953 £145,953
Overdraft.. .. 46,875 47,242 50,453 46,943
Mortgages, etc. .. 16,512 15.052 12,260 12,080
Other Debts .. 11,844 20,612 20,871 21,030
Assets.
Original Purchase 148,500 148,500 148,500 148,500
Other Properties.. 28,756 35,561 37,282 39,602
Book Debts .. 25,470 34,119 35,210 36,781
Stock .. .. 54,542 65,996 78,306 80,802
Gash .. .. 178 173 213 308
The least satisfactory feature is that the “Original
Purchase” item hasn’t been cut down at all; no-
thing, therefore, has been written off goodwill. Still,
if the goodwill is worth as much as it was in 1896
(and that seems highly probable), and if repairs and
replacements have kept up the value of the plant
and premises, it can be safely said that the co. is
now at least £55,000 better off than it was 15
years ago. In one respect the business must always
remain speculative, because the co. must hold a big
stock of stuff that is liable to great fluctuations in
value; but, apart from that, the changes of the past
few years have been all to the good of this co.
Beard Watson, Ltd. (Sydney), bouse fur-
nishers, etc.: —
Dividends.
Pref. To Re- Re-
July, Profits. 6 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
1909.. £5,341
Premiums on new shares .. £46 5,387
1910.. £12,232 £768 10 p.c. = £4374 7090 12,477
1911.. 11,875 900 10 „ „ 5000 5975 18,452
Until a couple of years back, this was a private co.,
formed in or about 1900, to take over an old-
established Sydney business. Apparently the old and
presumably affluent proprietors had gone out or
died, and the new co. had to lean pretty heavily on
the bank; for the motor-car and the carriage draw
up in front of Beard Watson’s door, and you mustn’t
always ask the motor-car and the carriage for cash
on delivery. Besides, a stock of furniture of the
non-painted variety runs to a heap of money. So
the public was invited to consider the profits, and
27,560 ordinary and 7500 6 p.c. cumulative pref.
shares, all of £1 each, were issued, making the total
50,000 ordinaries and 15,000 prefs. Even after this
issue of new capital the co. still had £38,123 of lia-
bilities, including £6300 of debentures; and in the
past 12 months the total has crept up to £39,874.
Practically all the eanital, reserves and liabilities are
represented by stock (£76,790) and book debts
( £45,057) ; all other assets amount to only £6997.
There are no freeholds; and it is a very satisfactory
feature of the accounts that neither goodwill nor
leaseholds figure as assets. This absence of city free-
hold investments helps to explain the large return
shown on capital—a return that has averaged over 18
p.c. p.a. for the past couple of years. But while capi-
tal invested in city freehold doesn’t usually give any
18 p.c. to the owner, it has the advantage of mostly
being there when it is wanted, whereas capital repre-
sented by book debts has a bad habit of quitting
mysteriously for Callao or some other badly-charted
plaee. Also, capital represented by stock values isn’t
always as dependable as it might be. Under these
circumstances, a liberal return on Beard Watson’s
capital is no more than might reasonably be expected;
and the management does the proper and prudent
thing in putting large sums to reserves. In fact, in
no other fashion can it give the concern solidity. It
isn’t, by thg way, altogether satisfactory to note that
the profits for the second year are less than they
were for the first year; in the natural order of
things, £7090 having been added to the reserves,
there ought from that source alone to have been a
small spring in the net takings.
* * * •
After a voyage through much stormy
water, in the course of which the two Sydney K.Cs.
who figured on the prospectus took the lifeboat for
shore, the Co?operative Assurance Co. proposes to get
to work on October 3. Besides taking ordinary and
industrial business, the co. is going to make a speci-
alty of house-purchase endowments—a side-line not
hitherto worked in Australia.
If the directors’ proposals are carried out,
Dudley Smith, who did some very fine work for the
Queensland Copper Co. at Mount Perry, will run
the tape over the Canbelego (N.S.W.), and then, if
the results are satisfactory, the people whom F. H.
Snow represents will advance the money to put up a
smelting plant on the mine, and, presumably, the
stuff will go on to Kembla for refining. Audley
Smith will also become consulting engineer. The
shareholders have had a good deal of encouragement
to put up capital, but they have jibbed, not being
too well satisfied with the management. In fact, at
the meeting the other day, they refused to adopt the
report and balance-sheet, and scattered without doing
anything beyond cursing heartily.
* * * *
This comes from one of the most experi-
enced mining men at Broken Hill: “The British has
been boomed so vigorously, and so many questionable
figures have been published about it, that it is time
the management, for its own protection, called in
some outside expert—say Hebbard, of the Central, or
Weir, of the North. The management may be quite
honest and honorable, and it is not necessary to at
present impute anything at all to the contrary. But
there have been so many instances of managements
becoming so enamored of a mine, that they have
been able to see ore in mullock, and feet where
other people could detect only inches. The public
has been led to believe, for instance, that at
the 600 ft. level there is a body 600 ft. long and
fully 150 ft. wide, and consisting of splendid ore.
Now, does the sloping south from Thomson shaft
suggest anything of the kind? At that point ore
has been beaten out for 100 ft. in length, and there
is a grave doubt whether it has been worked for
more than 16ft. in width on an average; and the
ore was by no means ‘splendid.’ It is, indeed, a
question whether the body so much talked of is a
new body at all; it is at least probable—very pro-
bable—that it is merely the continuation of the lode
that was being worked on the 600 ft. level when the
mine was shut down some two or three years ago.
As for other published measurements, the manage-
ment ought to take independent opinion as to
whether the drills have gone across the lode at right-
angles, or have more or less run along its course.
It is so easily possible that the latter has been done,
that those who accept the published figures, without
further confirmation, are in danger of making a most
serious miscalculation.”
* * * *
Depression still hangs heavily, like a dark
cloud, over Wvalong (N.S.W.), and the gold yield
for this year will he a considerable reduction on the
previous one, unless something unforeseen takes
place. Neilds are still boring for the lost shoot at
the 900 ft. The Keep It Dark Co. is trying to keep
pace with the output of inferior stone, by the mono-
tonous regularity of the calls; and the Homeward
Bound, restarted recently by a party of tributors on
a two years’ lease, has been reluctantly closed down,
the stone not panning out up to expectations. Wya-
long’s best yield was in 1897, when the output was
37,0000 z. gold, valued at £140,000.
Y-Water, Tingha way (N.S.W.), has had
a kindly summer and a kindlier winter, so it has
brought in shekels for the fat Melbourne crowd that
owns it. “Method” has been the motto all through.
Having got the ground, the co. sampled it with the
care of a beer drinker at a keg. When stuck up for
water the directors tapped every supply that would
serve When they had water, they ripped out tin.
Their luck has been to hit a splendid market for the
metal, so the half-year’s bag pans out a net profit of
£BBOO, allowing four Is. divs. To provide for a
dry spell, £5OOO was put to reserve. The net result
of all this forethought and good management is a
hint from the directors that divs. will appear at
regular intervals. A. H. P. Moline, who runs'the
show, has yard-sticked the claim. He assures five
or six years’ work ahead, with a bit more tagged
on if some prospecting he is at shapes kindly. His
trouble clearly is not going to be supplies of drift,
but dry seasons.
Westralia’s gold output for the eight
months ended August, totalled 899,0750 z., compared
with 969,7690 z. for the corresponding part of 1909.
On all sides the Government is being asked to do
something to break the continuous fall; but as it is
powerless to prevent the principal mining cos.
gradually reducing yields, and as it is not able to
put gold into stone when it isn’t there, or make un-
aided or State-aided prospecting parties find new
mines that don’t exist, the question arises: How can
the State do it? #
Bullfinch West (W.A.) has flitted to
Leonora, and alighted on the old King of the Hills
mine. This show was once owned by an English co.,
which, failing to make a do of things, cleared out.
Subsequently it passed into the hands of a local
prospector, who claims to have worked it success-
fully. A complete milling and cyanide equipment
covers portion of the surface.
Golden Butterfly (W.A.) continues to get
favorable reports about its new acquisition at
Kookynie, and it is expected that “with active de-
velopment a good mine will be discovered.” Mean-
time the co. has decided to abandon its Bullfinch
delusion, and await events. The new show was
formerly known as Shearer’s Find, and was once held
under option, and thrown up by 8., M. and Co. At
that time the lode became unpayable at 160 ft., but
the manager claims that with deeper sinking the ore
became richer again.
Golden Ridge (W.A.) has decided to re-
duce both output and dividend, and judging by the
appearance of the mine in depth, this decision has
not been come to any too soon. At the 67 oft. level
the ore is worth only 245. per ton, while in other
workings current assays range from Bs. to 30s.
Taking the tricky nature of its reefs into account,
it is surprising that the mine has lasted so well.
Additional power plant has been ordered
by the Lady Miller Co. (W.A.), and, according to a
cable received last week, work is to be resumed in a
month or two. An expert who has just given a look-
in estimates the value of the first 260 ft. of reef
opened up at the 114 ft. level, at 38s. 9d. per ton.
In view of this, the Board reckons that it is well
worth while risking a bit the property.
Undismayed by past experience, Murchi-
son Associated (W.A.) has decided to have another
go at its derelict Day Dawn prooerty. Some further
work is to be done at the No. 3 level, and a recent
surface find is to be tested to see if it is any better
than the hundred and one discoveries that were made
in days gone by, and which all proved worthless.
* .a. # * *
Menzies Consolidated (W.A.) battles on.
Something is wanted to improve the present situa-
tion, so the co. has decided to go nap on sinking,
and when that has been done it will open up another
level, in the hope that it will turn out better than
the one just driven. This show has been producing
gold off and on since the middle ’9o’s, and while the
value of recent monthly outputs has ranged from
under to well over £3OOO, the cost of production and
development has been too much to allow share-
holders to get a taste. # #
To the end of its last half-year (June B 0)
Black Range (W.A.) had paid £184,812 in divs.,
of which all but £23,625 has fallen to the share-
holders of the lucky co. which the luckier Hans
Irvine formed in 1906. The idea of “passing” a
monthly ninepenny div. never enters the office nowa-
days ; and 9d. a month means 45 p.c. a year. (The
capital is £72,500 in £1 shares.) The least cheer-
ful feature presents itself when you study the plans,
and find hqw close No. 10 level of the main workings
is to the western boundary, the make of stone being
very flat. Beyond the crosscourse north there is,
however, a big area of unprospected ground, and
No. s—the5 —the deepest level on ore in that part—has
proved good values.
North Nuggetty, Daylesford (Vic.), didn’t
declare the talked-of 3s. dividend, despite its 14510 z.
vield for August, whereat Ballarat felt sick, because
it had a load of shares at 60s. or so, which, 48 hours
later, it had to slop out at shillings less. All through
this gamble Ballarat hasn’t been smart enough for the
Artful Dodgers on the Melbourne side of the phone.
That a 3s. div. will come is certain, but it isn t
time yet for play of that kind. When the 3s. ap-
pears, the public should recall what happened to the
outsiders in the flutters in Ajax, in Nuggetty Ajax,
and in Cornish United. Then, if it still wants to
gamble, it will probably prefer to try spot* mg The
“goers” in the football finals. North Nugg' .oy, first
of all, is a small claim; next, it has to prove the
vertical reefs to be pavable, and show over 50s. in
sight; and, finally, it has to shake off the Stock
Exchange element. So there are several claws that
may scratch a too-confiding public.
Harry Dodd, of the Cathcart (Vic.), isn’t
off the Board by a long way. He is too old a eam-
paigner to be beaten easily. In the midst of the
struggle to oust him, out pops a Is. 6d. div. Dodd
knows how kindly the average shareholder regards
the director who can pour out dividends. Still, tms
eighteen-penny div. was a daring piece of diplomacy.
The new shaft has to go down, plant has to go up,
and the lead has to be reached and opened up. And
with the Is. 6d. paid there won’t be cash in the bank
ahead to cover all the expenditure. However, the
Cathcart has never failed yet, and The Bulletin
will be astonished if Dodd can’t say, when the new
shaft is in use, that he still bit in hand.
After long thinking Lindesay Clarke and
David Currie, of the Briseis, have said a few things
to the Mutual Hill (Tas.) crowd. These people are
either too hard-up or too unwilling to face bringing
in water to the Mutual Hill claim, so they turn to
the fat Briseis Co., and cry: “Give, give. iney
get little more than most beggars. > Joske, when ne
made his deal with Briseis for h is New Brothers
Home No. 1, wrung out pretty well half ot the
profits. The Mutual Hill people are cut down to
25 p.c., and this only after Bd. has been lopped off
returns for every cubic yard of over-burden or drift
treated. One extra scrap thrown to the Hillites is
that if the wash at any time nets more than Is. 6d.
per cubic yard, a modest additional 5 p.c.
is to reach them. The proposal is of the
best Mailed Fist order. Briseis has water, which it
gets from the Ringarooma and the Mam Creek
for nothing. It can’t use all its supplies in the
winter, but it can compel the heaviest toll from any
poor brother, who, if he had the waste, could turn it
to account. So Mutual Hill must take what it is
offered, unless it is prepared to face a big outlay on
its own account. The undertaking may be measured
up this way. With metallic tin at £lBO per ton, or
£135 for 75 p.c. black oxide, then the price gross
per lb. would be under Is. 3d. Deduct Bd. foi
sluicing, and charge for smelting, etc., and there
won’t be much left for the Hillites. When work was
most expensive at the Briseis, the average sluicing
cost was below 6d. Costs given of the removal oi
over-burden at the Ringarooma, including the heavy
basalt treated there, is 5.89 d. per cubic yard. The
Mutual Hill dirt is child’s play compared with that
basalt-capped deposit. Yet Mutual Hill is to be
charged Bd. The State, which lets the Briseis have
its water for nil, and lets it sludge up the river beds,
ought to take to itself s, le power with regard to
these agreements, in the interests of other claim-
holders.
An accident to the winding gear at the
Vulcan (N.Q.) caused the output for August to slump
to £1602 from 323 tons of crude ore. The co. s
half-year closed on July 31 with a credit of £ 11,39 J,
an improvement of £7152 on the cash balance at the
commencement of the term. The mine Pent J; 0 ,^ e
Irvinebank mill 3824 tons, which produced 207 tons
concentrates, worth £16,742. There are no less than
264,000 shares, which explains why only a penny
dividend followed the improved prospects. More
recently the co. paid 2d. ( £2200), and the sugges-
tion is now made that the co. should save up for a
sixpenny. The Id. caused a fall, the 2d. a recovery,
and the promise of 6d. has brought Vulcans into
favor again. The recent development at the 600 ft.
level shows payable ore for 70 ft. in length; at the
south end there is only 2ft. of ore showing, but in
other places there is a width of 15ft. By rising and
sinking this ore body has been proved for 80ft.
Gympie (Q.) returns for August show a
decided improvement on those of the previous months
of this year. Altogether, 12,105 tons yielded
84650 z. ; dividends, £8200; calls, £3625. Chief
producers were: Scottish Gympie, 7800 tons, 22560 z.;
No. 1 N. 1 ictory, 313 tons, 12600 z. (div. Is. 3d.=
£3000) ; No. 2 S. Great Eastern, 1195 tons,
7200 z., and plates 3380 z. (div. 4d. = £2400); No.
3 N. Columbia, 1173 tons, 6470 z. (div. 6d. =
£2000) ; No. 1 N. Columbia, 736 tons, 3140 z. (div.
2d. = £800). The South Glanmire and Monkland
battery has been hung up during the month, owing
to tailings in the river-bed blocking the water
supply. The farmers will have the benefit of these
tailings later on. No. 1 N. Victory, which has veri-
fied Bulletin piedictions of December 22 last, by
paying a good dividend, is one of the most northerly
mines on the old portion of the gold field. No. 2 S.
Great Eastern has had a crushing from the Ingle-
wood reef at 1750 ft.; the stone went about 4dwt.
per ton, and was thus not up to the value of the
same lode in the adjoining Scottish Gympie.
The Dee Rush (Q.) has ceased to be a
rush or even an amble. Alongside of the Dee River,
seven miles above Mount Morgan, the ground, some
half-dozen years ago, produced numerous isolated
nuggets, worth £4 Is. Bd. per oz., which is a record
for alluvial. But the “run” or lead disappeared,
and the thousand miners disappeared with it. Now
only six or so chase the yellow stuff, what time a
few settlers find more money and less disappoint-
ment in' the milker and the cabbage.
* * * *
Northern Territory Mines and Explora-
tion Co. has got its report from Frank B. Powell.
He drives King and Nelson, the prospectors, on to
the ropes, but does not knock them out. J. H. Nel-
son, on November 14, reported to the co. that at
Barney’s Creek the lode was 30ft. to 50ft. wide, and
that at the “end of outcrop large hill appears, moun-
tain galena, and has every indication of carbonates
of lead and chloride of silver.” On the indications,
Nelson concluded that he had hit another Broken
Hill. Powell says: (1) No massive bodies of galena
are showing 1 \ (2) outcrop is well defined, com-
posed of silicious gossan containing a little carbon-
ate of lead and carbonate of zinc, with
bunches of galena in places; (3) the out-
crop is big, and looks very promising; (4)
prospective value of mine is good, especially as to
Cook’s lode; (5) expenditure of £5OOO is war-
ranted ; (6) copper show on Limen’s is not worthy
of attention at the present time. Hence Nelson
and King come out of it very well, for Powell is so
cautious that if he suggests spending £5OOO, it
means that he bottles up a chance for the co. As his
report weighs with a certain Collins and
streets crowd, the question is: Will they fork out the
cash to try so distant a bit of country as the hinter-
land of the Gulf of Carpentaria? The Bulletin has
its doubts, though it believes there is a big mineral
belt there which deserves testing.
“Rough Coal,” from S. Australia: Premier
Verran visited the Iron Knob the other day. Iron
Knob is claimed to be the largest deposit of almost
pure iron known on this planet, .Pegged out by one
Synett, in the latter ’9o’s, and acquired by the
Broken Hill Proprietary Co. in 1900, for the oft-
mentioned song, it has provided a valuable supply of
iron flux for Port Pirie smelters, 60 miles across
Spencer’s Gulf. There are several big hills °f solid
ironstone, and the bore has proved, to 150 ft., nothing
poorer than 95 to 98 p.c. ore. The probabilities of
bottoming the lode and ascertaining its full extent
are too remote possibilities to worry about for the
next century or so, and this on the one hill alone,
where operations are being conducted. As the co. s
lease contains several hills of a similar nature, Pre-
mier Verran talks of resuming a portion of this ex-
tensive property, in which event another outburst oi
State Enterprise may be expected Leigh Creek
coal, blended with Newcastle, will be the fuel selected
for making pig-iron at Port Augusta, where the
Jenkins Government’s smelting furnaces are still
rusting. ■ * *
Wallaroo and Moonta (S.A) pays a Is.
dividend (£8000) on September 26; this makes the
total £2,091,250. Two fortnightly returns to Sep-
tember 2 show 532 tons of copper, and apparently
the works are shaping for an average output of 500
tons per month. As it takes only £BOOO to pay a
shilling dividend, the position is much more com-
fortable than it was a while ago. #
More cheerful news comes from the Waihi
(M L ) The Empire lode has been cut at the 1150 ft.
level, and when opened on the footwall side, averaged
£3 Vs 6d. per ton for a width of 3ft. After pass-
ing through this good stone the crosscut met a band
of mullock, but the stone appears to be making good
again. It was largely owing to the indifferent pros-
pects overhead in No. 9 that Waihi shares got such
a set-back ; so the improvement at this deeper level
may be highly important. #
Waihi Grand Junction (M.L.) is opening
up well at depth. Developments below No. 5 level
are the star feature. This level in the Junction
corresponds roughly to No. 9 (1000 ft.) in the
Waihi and apparently the Junction is finding some
of the prizes which the parent mine overlooked. At
the bottom of the shaft, which is now 110 ft. below
No 5, a nice-looking body of quartz is showing
about 9ft. being exposed—and the management is
hoping it is identical with the 2ft. band intersected
in the main S.E. crosscut on No. 5. If so, the reef
has gained in value as well as size, as a sample over
the full width in the shaft gave an average of over
£2 whereas in No. 5 it was worth only 19s.
Several winzes sunk on the Empire lode from No. 5
level followed good ore for depths ranging up to
80ft.
* * * *
The Taranaki (M.L.) Petroleum 00.
seems to have brought off the deal with J. D. Henry’s
people in London, and has also sold its crude oil at a
good price. The London co. is to have a working
capital of £200,000, instead of the originally pro-
posed £lOO,OOO, and it is looking to lou Ward for
help in the shape of bonuses.
Barwon: Everything hangs on the ex-
traction, and the success of that has yet to be proved
on a commercial scale Commandeer: Approxi-
mately £1 12s. per share Tin: Can’t advise....
E.S.L.: Yes; but keep your eye on the £4 liability.


H
fSteb
1818
World
Ĥ
Renowned
Trade Mark.
STUHR’S
Finest Table Delicacies
Genuine Caviare.
Anchovies in Brine.
Peeled Shrimps.
Shrimps Extract.
Sold by all High-class Provision Dealers.
C. F. STUHR & CO., Hamburg.
English Export Agent: W. Lovegrove, London,E-C.
ROBUR
V
It is not everybody who has
the patience to nurse sick people;
poor things, they do need such a
lot of attention—on the other
hand, half the nights you sit up
you might just as well be in your
bed fast asleep for all the good
you can do. Still, somebody’s
got to keep near them or they’d
begin to imagine all sorts of
things, and that wouldn’t be
good for them.
Of course, one gets used to
the work in time, but even then it's
trying to have to sit and watch a
patient in pain when you can’t do
anything—it gets on your nerves,
I can tell you; and if it were not
for being able to get a cup of tea
now and then, the work would
be unbearable. A cup of "Robur”
Tea is a great steadier, it seems
to keep one up and fit, when
otherwise you’d feel like giving
in. The Number "One” Grade
"Robur” is tea you’d like — it
is quite pure you know.
The Nurse.
QUALITY—BUCHANAN WHISKY
“BLACK & WHITE.’’
A
WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, September 18, 1911.
My Dear Arini, —
Droves of school girls, rounded up by
female shepherds, stampeded into the
Y.M.C.A. Hall to hear Miss Mary Hall’s
account of her trek from the Cape to Cairo.
This British globe-trotter, who is plump and
pleasant, made a caravan excursion for plea-
sure over some of Central Africa’s wettest
swamps, baked in the mid-day sun, was
severely bitten by African small game at
night, and enjoyed herself immensely, with
a tremble in her knees when darkness fell
for the first time on her all-black camp of 40
niggers. Snores and cattle-stealing were
their chief sins. An infuriated colored
Nabob, with his entire army placed on a war
footing, dashed into the trek at one of its
blackest moments. Mary Hall, unarmed, sat
down on a packing case, scattered her 40
Thieves at a judicial distance, and received
a murderous array of raging heathen with
the calmness of despair.
In the middle of loud language, and much
stabbing of the air with ferocious spears,
the Sultan yelled, through two interpreters,
that these premises were his selection, and
he wouldn’t have any cattle-duffing or kid-
napping within his borders. If the lady
wanted some of his live stock why didn’t
she ask for it, anyhow? Mutual apologies
arose when the White Pusson expressed ber
surprise and wrath at the loose morals of
the 40 Thieves who’d “picked up” a local
and most unwilling guide without giving
him time to change his coiffure. After an in-
cident that looked like massacre with large
headlines, Mary Hall says: “We parted the
best of friends. The Sultan (?) pressed me to
accept the help as guides of two of his men,
and he posed for his photo. Which shows
that a little courtesy and calmness go a
long way even in Central Africa.” The Mary
Hall photos of this jungle-walk are so good
that if the lady ever takes to the camera for
a crust she’ll be able to earn a fat smear of
butter as well.
Amongst the miniatures that make a soft
splash of color on a table in Melba’s eyrie
at Rose Bay, is one of her “Daddy” which
she picks up with tender affection, and two
portraits at which she sometimes stares
with the frank curiosity of a butterfly for
its primitive shell. “Look at this little girl,”
said the Skylark, the other day; “she has a
determined face, I think. And this—it isn’t
much like me now. Perhaps it isn’t a fight-
ing face, yet it is I, and was taken when
my boy was small.” Schoolgirl Nellie ML-
chel’s miniature, with a mane of hair on
either side the handsome wilful little face,
shows a bumpy forehead full of brains. The
profile of the young matron, Nellie Arm-
strong, might belong to some meek daughter
of the Manse, and was obviously painted be-
fore the Battle of the Voice had left a scar
or two on the owner’s sensitive skin.
If soprano Jeanne Wayda, the Mrs. But-
terfly of Puccini’s opera on Saturday night,
goes on creating an uproar in Her Majesty’s
Theatre, she’ll render herself liable to be
run in for inciting peaceful citizens to
riotous conduct. Wayda “arrived” in the
love song at the end of the first act of
“Madam Butterfly.” Otherwise well-behaved
persons rose from their seats in gallery and
circle and furiously cheered the Polish lady
before Angelini’s baton fell on the last bar
of the orchestra. Then they roared again,
and flung into the air portions of their per-
sonal attire handkerchiefs, etc. while
Mrs. Butterfly dragged McCormack-Pinker-
ton. Angelini and other musical friends be-
fore the curtain. But the Polish lady was
entirely to blame, and she had to hurry
from her hari-kari orgy to throw a tired
smile across the footlights.
Wayda, as Mrs. Butterfly, gets into some
gorgeous garniture. The kimono, as plumage,
is an alluring piece of vanity, and the
Japanese woman who wants to acquire a
smear of western varnish in her skirts, is a
mere fool. The exquisite hand-embroidery
which Mrs. Butterfly flaunts under the nose
of the casual Pinkerton, was a poem in
pink westeria. The limpid tone of a shallow
pool of sea water —neither green nor blue —
with silken birds in flight across its shim-
mering folds, and the Oriental blaze of flori-
culture on the black, proved that the Jap
lady understood frocks better than men.
Goro, an excitable old heathen match-
maker (Franchetti), defended himself with
a red fan when Mrs. Butterfly chased him
round the room. Tenor McCormack’s voice
is mislaid somewhere at the back of the
stage during the larger half of the show, and
his hands got into a semaphore action during
liis first warble scene with handsome Wayda.
Pinkerton’s character is pale grey with a
wet rag where his backbone ought to be, and
every actor who’s taken this “sick” part
here seems to realise that the person is
an ordinary bounder who ought to have his
head punched at an early stage of the en-
tertainment. A first-night audience at the
opera almost repeats itself. The boxes
house the same tenants. Stalls and circle
were much the same at “Butterfly” as at
“Boh&me” up to the detail of the Marshall-
Hall collar stud.
The youthful Ciccolini, of the grand opera
Aviary, carelessly poured a drop or two of
carbolic into one eye, instead of lotion, and
the kindly Jeanne Wayda, always ready to
help, innocently advised the sufferer to put
out the fire with cold water. The language
that followed this recipe was probably florid
Italian, and not intended for publication
Clem. Wragge has been hustling the
heavens with much success in his Y.M.C.A.
Hall lectures. On Friday night he bumped
into a thunderstorm which went growling
round the town, but he had no other acci-
dent in his lantern-slide scamper through
“The Eternal Heavens.”
The G.-G. Denmans’ train got into the Cen-
tral Station, which included a large acreage
of flags and red carpet, nearly half an hour
late on Saturday morning, and thus gave
three extra-large policemen ample time to re-
arrange the crowd, and tell it to “Get back
there, carn’t you!” when it wasn’t coming
forward, and had been back all the time.
The R.A.G.A. band exploded in a joyful
blare as the express slowly grunted in. A
vast area of British officer, in scarlet and
gold, with his head buried in black bearskin,
lay in wait for the arrival, but the Austra-
lian gunner, in workmanlike dark blue kit,
and white roof, looked several centuries
ahead of the mediaeval busby beaux. Major
Quilter, Military Sec. to his Ex., must
breathe the air nearly Bft. above sea level
when he’s in his tall fur hat, and, like Cap-
tain Sir Walter Barttelot, A.D.C. (an inch
or two shorter) cultivates a waist. What a
Seaforth Highlander like Captain Stewart
Richardson, A.D.C., leaves on the ostrich
isn’t worth mentioning, and the Magnificent
Being in kilts on the G.-G.’s staff, who
waves the plucking of an ostrich farm at an
altitude of 11 fathom, is the last gasp in
feudal finery.
G.-G. Denman, fair, clean-skinned and
alert in manner, gives the impression of a
man who’s going to tackle his job without
any frills. Her Ex. scattered a brisk smile
round officialdom, which held its hat in its
hand, but mercifully refrained from pulling
a forelock in the Presence. Mayor Allen
Taylor, with Deputy Town Clerk Layton,
hastened to the fray; Archbishop Wright
hopped out of the express, and sprinted down
the platform lest he might miss the vice-
regal paw; Premier Jim McGowen, garbed
in the Coronating glory of a tall hat, frock
coat, etc., was with Mrs. Jim, who lurked
behind a large offering of vegetable matter
for her Ex.; Minister Holman, careless about
his outer shell, contributed a new straw hat
to the occasion, but had forgotten to cut the
cotton when he tore off the price.
Lieut.-Col. Clarke and Lieut.-Col. Jack
Antill hovered round the armed guard. Act-
ing-Gov. Cullen’s honiton lace front was ex-
tinguished by the beauty of the Scarlet
Giants.
The new G.-G. Denman’s footman, who
spent half an hour on the Central Station
waiting for his lord on Saturday morning,
wore an air of complete detachment only
possible to a china mantelpiece ornament
and a certain type of Cold Land servant.
The adjacent crowd discussed every article
of his apparel—from the crested buttons on
his maroon swallow-tail, to the pale pink
tops of his beautiful boots. The wearer of
the wardrobe, a fresh-colored Importation,
never whisked an eyelash, and might have
been a nicely-painted image.
Gov.-Gen. Denman’s Illuminated address
misery began soon after his escape from the
armed inhabitants of Victoria Barracks, who
shouldered rifles in defence of his cocked hat
on its arrival in Sydney. The Chamber of
Commerce is one of the first offenders, and
its “loyalty” and “hearty welcome” were
designed and illuminated by Miss D. R.
Holding, who made a success of her job.
This address resides or leads its unobtrusive
existence in a heavy leather-clad cover, and
it contains v/ater-color sketches of Aus-
tralian wild flowers, the yawning mouth of
South Head Gap, a pioneer prospector with
a nice clean-looking landscape behind his
hat, and the G.-G.’s crest —two infuriated
red lions tearing at the feathers in a
knight’s visor on which stands a careless
fowl (probably a falcon) calmly taking
no notice. The Chamber of Commerce as-
sures his Ex., in elegant gold lettering, that
“his duties will be discharged with honor to
himself,” etc.
If several tons of illuminated vellum
must be shot at every Governor who comes
to this patch, why not wait till he’s packing
up his official hand-shake for ’Ome? If he’s
been a popular Importation, the dreary busi-
ness of carting away several loads of framed
parchment would be borne with resignation
by the recipient—he’d feel that the good
wishes were not entirely built of thin air.
If he’s the type of Grand Llama who slips
away with the station-master and a stray
dog to see him off —even one illuminated
farewell would be more comforting than
several bricks.
Gov.-Gen. Denman’s heraldic motto, re-
suscitated from a dead language, is “Pru-
dent and Constant,” or something there-
abouts —a useful head-line with a trace of
copy-book morals.
Miss Gwladys Kerr-Clark, who married
Lieutenant Prickett, R.N., of the Chal-
lenger, at Garden Island last week, is a
grand-daughter of the late plain citizen
John Robertson, M.L.A. Old Jock, whose
long locks and straight politics travelled
between Watson’s Bay and Macquarie-
street for many years, emigrated to this ham-
let in his youth, pushed his way to the front,
and shook a vigorous fist in the first Free
Selection scrap. The girl’s father, the
late J. Clark, of the big Ghoolendaadi
sheen walk, left £200,000, or thereabouts, to
his family, so the naval Prickett gets a well-
dowered Australian bride —a casualty which
frequently occurs when a large green wed-
ding wreath flutters from ’tween masts of
one of the British Admiralty’s cruisers in
these waters.
Talking of naval matters, the Powerful
has been frustrated in its effort to give a ball
this year. The only night available was
Thursday in race-week. But in the middle
of race-week, for the first time in our rough
island story, the Admiral (to whom social
functions count as nothing) has decided that
the Powerful shall coal. There is a garden
party at Government House on Thursday,
and, if the wind is in the right quarter,
there will be some black chiffons and blue
language before nightfall.
Mr. and Mrs. “Jim” Osborne leave on a
visit to the Jeffries’ home in America next
month.
Miss Noni Fiaschi, younger daughter of
the Macquarie-street surgeon, has just be-
come engaged to a Mr. Tennant, of London.
Her sister Clarissa crowded into a few
years an engagement with Mumm, the cham-
pagne “prince” (who died and left her a
quarter of a million), marriage with an
Italian Marquis, and the acquisition of two
children. Miss Noni, who is abroad at pre-
sent, is only 17.
Mr. William Gilhooley, who was recently
married to Miss Mary McShane, is a son of
the late Dr. Gilhooley of this town, whose
tastes were mostly artistic. Mr. Gilhooley
carries the burden of his heredity in the
shape of a tendency to orchestral music. A
sister, Mrs. Tom Hughes, is a notable
amateur in Arts and Crafts. She hand-beats
brass till it rises up in horticultural form,
and, when she’s at home, carves wood into
shapes that suggest the decorated gate of
Paradise.
Colonel Le Mesurier, who’s going to take
the S. Australian job of military command-
ant —Sapper Lee having dropped out under
the Aged Officers’ Pole-axe Act —is one of
the best-liked men in the Ancient Armory
service—an amazing fact, because he has
most of the amiable foibles the continental
press glues on to its caricatures of an Eng-
lish officer. He wears an eyeglass—did so
on active service, and will probably wear it
floating over his head instead of a halo
later on. Also, he has the outer frills of
English Johnnydom. Yet he achieved years
ago the barrack room V.C., which is the
title of “White Man,” and bubbles over with
a reckless brand of courage that will some
day help him to break his neck, off a horse
for preference.
Before this reaches you, Mrs. Anderson
Stuart will—bar burglary, fire, earthquake,
civil commotion, battle, murder or other pos-
sible hindrances—have added about £65
worth of solid silver, including a good-look-
ing rose bowl, to her household furniture.
It’s the gift of graduates of the Sydney
Medical School, and is presented by them
out of a nest-egg left over from the fund
for Longstaff’s portrait of Prof. Stuart —to
earmark the 25th birthday of the big stone
Medical House where they demonstrate. The
picture is a fine likeness of Anderson Stuart
when he’s trimmed up with academic mil-
linery, and it’s going to be handed over on
the same occasion.
Rupert Clarke and his lady with the cop-
per-tinted thatch, have returned to this
garden plot with some imported servants and
no limelight. Baronet Rupert, before being
swallowed up in the J. C. Williamson Ltd.
amalgamation, may have backed a horse he
didn’t understand, but if it be true that the
Lord loveth a cheerful loser, ex-Manager
Clarke will get a stained-glass window for
his efforts to make the great theatrical race
a fight to a finish.
“Jeames” supplies this item: —
According to a cable message, last week, Admiral
Sir Hedworth Lambton is adopting the name and
arms of the Meux family, in consideration of Theo-
bald’s Park and a fortune. The late Lady Meux, to
whom the Admiral owes his windfall, was one of
the vast army which has stepped into Debrett over
the footlights, so to speak. She was a woman of
great force of character, and ruled her eccentric hus-
band from the day of their marriage till his death,
11 years ago, with a rod of steel. She was one of
the horsiest women in England, which may account
in part for the good turn she has done the sporting
house of Durham. But there is no doubt that the
chief factor in the business was her desire to score
off the Meux family, which was foolish enough to
“cut” her after her capture of its chief. By the
way, an unconscious bit of humor in connection with
Lady Meux’s will, was a legacy to a young man
friend of hers, “on condition he married a woman
in Society.” He lost the money by espousing a con-
siderably-advertised divorcee.
The tall and handsome Eileen Tyson, who
was married to young solicitor Sydney
Paton, at St. Mary’s (R.C.) Church, North
Sydney, is the granddaughter of the Tyson
sister who got a thick slice of the million-
aire’s financial loaf. A Tyson married a
Tyson somewhere in the remoter branches of
the family tree. The bridal plumage was a
vision of satin and lace, and the reception at
Petty’s was one of the most decorative cham-
pagne parties of the season.
Golf balls have been vigorously smacked
into the right holes- —or otherwise —on the
Rose Bay links during the last week or two.
There’s an inrush of inter-State golfers, and
the caddies sprint like grasshoppers—busi-
ness in the golf porterage line being brisk.
A raging westerly on Saturday afternoon
blew adjectives about the green velvet
patches in the lower swamp ground, but no
breakages are recorded. Norman Brookes,
who golfs when he doesn’t tennis, has taken
a hand in the recent battle of the ball.
Golfers J. D. Howden, A. F. Maiden and R.
S. Banks are also over from the Cabbage
Patch for the present happening.
Architect Hardy Wilson, who is careering
after an Industrial Art Museum for this
city, has been gently bumped by Mr. R. T.
Baker, who says there is such a hiding-
place for choice rags, bones, brass, etc., in
the Technological pile at Ultimo. The Tech,
has gathered together some good-looking
crockery, and caged it in glass; but there’s
an icy gloom about the show that’s liable to
drive the searcher for artistic remains to
flannel underwear or drink. The arrange-
ment is cold and unattractive, and the
Museum is generally mislaid in a Harris-
street dust storm. There’s some good stuff,
however, copies in brass or crockery—a
model of an alleged jug of Will Shakspeare’s:
a fat white teapot (middle English) copied
from Queen Charlotte’s favorite pot; models
after early Greek, Roman, German and Rus-
sian food and fancy ware; an ancient hour-
glass lent by Mrs. (Essie Jenyns) Wood:
and the china duplicate of a bronze pot found
in Aberdeen in 1886. The original contained
12,267 pennies, and the typical Aberdeen
man who’s accused of spending nothing as a
regular habit must have wept over a bronze
bank which paid no interest.
The Acting-Governor Cullens, with a
gentleman-lielp at their heels, made a serious
progress through the R.A. Society’s pump-
kin patch the other day. President Lister-
Lister, Secretary Daplyn and business-man
G. W. Hadfield, who follows and occasion-
ally overtakes Art in his spare moments,
assisted at this memorial service. Lister-
Lister, by the way, snares the eye with
some charming South Coast sand-and-sea-
gull water-colors.
The R.A. Society also broke out in its
annual conversazione last week, without
any damage to the fresh eggs and other
produce framed on its walls. On the
following afternoon tea was poured out
by Mrs. D. Fell and Mrs. Simpson for a
gathering that included the Ethel Irving
smile, a gleam of sunshine that only flickers
sometimes in the wet atmosphere of “The
Witness for the Defence.”
The Pill and Porous Plaster Party—offici-
ally indexed as Medical Congress—is making
its presence felt in this city. A dreadful rumor
that there are 40 sawbones boarding in one
hotel suggests fatalities. They may take to
prescribing for each other after evening par-
ties.
Dr. Antill-Pockley, president of the Medi-
cal Congress corrobboree, was leading gentle-
man, as host, at the first Pill and Powder
party which broke out in the learned pre-
cincts of Sydney Uni. on Saturday after-
noon. Mrs. Pockley helped her medical mate
to wring the hands of several hundred visi-
tors, who had put on their best clothes for
that purpose.
The Ladies’ Entertainment Committee,
which helps to fill up the Medical Congress
with food —when it isn’t filling itself up with
learning and other things—has chosen the
shores of Kirribilli Point for its evening
revel on Friday. The Royal Yacht Squad-
ron’s anchorage will be the place. Ex-
plorers who set out from the Circular Quay
side of N.S.W. will kindly continue their
travels to the brink of Fort Macquarie.
Yours, with a broad nib,
VANDORLAN.


m
l immn • \
:mi i /i ;.<;•in Mm '■
imm
u i mrut •?
}••*|i- UlpU
i; Um n:. i >j: ?• '
;hf jiAif ai •: . ? m-« ; »*. v.•
s MM
'. ‘ v )•
IS
m
!; i if! ]‘-j :; \rf $ xs &d j
lui'n ii-<| iifip ifiitiws
Jlji"; f/i l| jMiH
!: ’ :•’ ! > ; ill; \ fcff * >)|| Ji’ ■! >S’( sM§'*s
■' * i
ttn
LHpPi
f Of
1 ? >;fl
!
■ f
Mi
sn
mi ■
j ; j| | •;ih
m
m
\-"i'
>;- ;y|
Wmm
jjKfysty'j
sni
spas
inil it illiwi
r^
gas
ml
SK'
I
fi&V
5
m
’!’?/* f?~
® ;
I pl r P H |ll
Is?: . $ 1 rittl
wll
<iSpiK%-
pfe.'vS
tel
S&Si?
MM
¥
./ »/*«>*** _*Kt^
o
' I
i i f
*\B
.V
n:
<:
IP
'MM
urn
tfK r
«5i
Ilf
> / V /
' -'Mi
5rT/
sas
-M
&*».«!
m
Nv
'MM
liar?'
MSM
IK
BS
5^
1
s>!r ; .
PS
mm
¥m
wM
JS3»
IBS
a*
W&mS£k
:
■ '
Bm§m
m-v
mm
m
m
'ii'''.■■'-•'s' 'yV \ -.;• /
»
—;M>M. ,
at*
Ssm
h :
mm
mm
m
Wsu£
•MM--; -• >v ;MM'4 iMi'MM''''''-.'
7 :^SS^r
‘j*'-}*
522
I&* 1 ?
w*
m
mult
,'ifi a/
I
? '
w r/iac. m -j
•Kl®
11
m
.'• V
ii
a
COBRA, Floor Polish, is as
good as COBRA, ?5hQ Boot Polish.
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Travels in his
Old canoe
Down the shining
Hallway River
Where no whisp’ring
Reed-beds quiver.
Like Dick Arnst on
The Zambesi
Chunder paddles
Gay and easy.
No wild hippos
Can demolish
Him! THE RIVER’S
MADE OF POLISH!


Madame Masseran,
Corsetiere,
of 9 Collins Street, Melbourne, begs to in-
form her Sydney clients that she will be at
the Hotel Metropole, from Friday, 22nd, to
Wednesday, 21th inst., both dates inclusive.
NEURALGIA.
If the affected parts are bathed freely with Cham-
berlain’s Pain Balm, those stabbing, burning, dart-
ing pains will soon disappear. Rub the Balm well
in several times during the day, keeping the patient
warm and out of the cold wind. Dozens of people
suffering from neuralgia have been cured by the use
of Chamberlain’s Pain Balm.*
DUNLOP
GARDEN
HOSE
n
ry^
M
V.
JHC
SVT'*
THIS HOSE
is the Finest that
you can obtain.
Its quality ensures
long wear, and
its Construction
no kinking or
bursting.
The fact that more “ Dunlop”
Hose is sold in Australasia
than any other brand speaks
volumes for its Quality and
Durability. ONLY ACCEPT
“DUNLOP” BRANDS.
Sample Section on Application.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
Melbourne, Sydney. Adelaide,
Perth, Brisbane, Wellington
and Christchurch. N.Z.
DUNLOP
RUBBER
For
Quality
Wear
and
Comfort
/.
m
: ALL
SHOPS
Dunlop Rubber Co.
AU Stale* aN-Z. ..
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, September IS, 1911.
My Dear Yarrie, —
Last week the hillmen came down from
above Lilydale and Yarra Glen to their
Hunt Club races at Moonee Valley, which
place, in spite of its suburban residences
and neighboring factories, has a breath of
the country about it. The horses often
startle a rabbit or hare out of its hiding
place, and occasionally a local cart lumbers
informally round the innermost ring of the
course. It is doing its ordinary delivery
round, and is taking a convenient short cut
across country. The sportsmen brought a
goodly number of clean-heeled nags to jump
the brushwood fences, and country sassiety
came along in its best clothes to watch from
the grand stand. Generally the baby was
brought along, too.
The Fiskens were in smart race garb —
the men wearing tweeds cut with a fashion-
able waist, and the women in the very latest
frocks and colored stockings. It is the
woman now who wears the hot hoisery,
whilst the male image clothes his feet of
clay in something dull and earth-colored.
(One enterprising Melbourne dame utilises
some of hubby’s rainbow purchases by tack-
ing them on to tops cut from hosiery of her
own that has gone in the feet.)
On the lawn, Mrs. McCracken was en-
veloped in green. A whole ostrich had been
dyed to provide her hat furnishings, and her
magenta parasol struck a shrill color note. The
Yarra Glen Boyds and the it Beckett clan
were in full feather. The Cave Hill Mit-
chells—who really should have the word
Melba coupled on to their name with a
hyphen—left their fastnesses, and the Kil-
more Taylors came down from the moun-
tain district. Nancy Grice arrived in mourn-
ing, escorted by Papa Jim, and Mrs. Alister
Clark was an interested watcher. George
Cumming, the Rupertswood manager, spent
the whole day in the depths of his tan over-
coat, and Mrs. Allen journeyed out from the
city attired in tweeds.
The Victorian artists masqueraded on Fri-
day night, for Marshall Flail’s Conserva-
torium, with a limited amount of abandon.
The first part of the show was rather self-
conscious .and restrained; but at 10.30 a
flashlight picture, a general unmasking, and
the dropping of the ropes which barred the
entrance to the supper room rapidly set
things going. The revolutions were calcu-
lated at thousands to the minute after that,
until the revellers flew off the pivot alto-
gether at 2 a.m. It is only when homing-
masqueraders get loose in the grey, dreamful
streets that the real fun begins. Three gor-
geous Orientals, witn orange turbans and
gleaming scimitars, drove off in an every-
day jinker drawn bv a cynical-looking horse
which had been kept from its stable through
the dreary hours of waiting. The pierrots
and Pierrettes chased one another towards
the suburbs; and a trio of girls in bathing
gowns walked up Collins-street without a
word ol protest irom the police force of the
city. Disguised as Red Indians, a batch of
students had tracked stealthily round the
dimly lighted ball-room carrying a horrid
head on a spear. These, too, decorated the
commonplace thoroughfares as they strode
home topped off with the pirated furnish-
ings of the hen’s uncle. Legs which are
concealed with great care under ordinary
circumstances, are displayed proudly when
the owners get into fancy dress. Some very
neat understandings were on view at this
frivol. A Cupid in pink tights with a trophy
heart or so, and a mystery in black velvet,
cut high from the floor and low from the
ceiling, excited the curiosity of all. The
ceiling, by the way, was splendidly decor-
ated. as also were the balconies; and the
forest in the organ loft was much appre-
ciated. i\ell Payne did it all, and refused to
be rewarded, save by thanks and apprecia-
tion. Coloreu paper birds with electric light
innards flew as far as their wires would let
them, and shed illumination on the scene.
Mrs. McCubbin was engineer-in-chief of the
show, and Lou helped with a poster. Esther
Paterson did lightning sketches during an
interval under ond of the balconies, and sup-
plied some extra entertainment. An auction
of the dance advertisements was to have
been held; but the carnival got so hilarious
that business became an impossibility, and
the event was scratched off the programme.
The Glassy Harem, last week, indulged in
a masculine inter-State ice hockey match.
The keenest hockey players in Victoria are
really the flappers. They play on grass or
ice, and roam about armed with clubs in
chattering bunches of about a dozen. You
will know them —-if they haven’t got their
sticks with them —by their brilliant com-
plexions, abbreviated skirts, knitted coats
and jaunty caps. In later life they take to
tennis, and finish their athletic old age
with golf. A match between teams of nice
girl players would have been a better draw'
for the Harem. I trust the management will
take the hint next time, and get two crowds
of flappers to pursue and smite the flat disc
which flies up in the faces of the spectators.
The Menzies’ juvenile ball in aid of the
Children’s Hospital, which is to be held at
the big hostelry next Saturday, is to bang
all records. Norman Menzies and his wife
are turning the tall pub inside out for the
spree, and many expect that the barmaidens
will have to sell drinks in the open air. The
tickets are priced at half-a-guinea; but one
grown-up can escort two children on a
guinea ticket. The unattached adult who
monopolises room at the average children’s
party is to be gently discouraged. Grown-
ups will only be tolerated when acting as
attendants to youngsters. The decorations
and food are to be on a sumptuous scale,
and each mite will attend in fancy or poster
dress. Prizes are to be awarded for the best
costumes. Florrie Green is putting the
small folk through rehearsals to ensure that
every dancer will use the same brand of
minuet, waltz and two-step.
Cumbrae Stewart, the clever girl artist,
had a modest show in Cole’s Art Gallery,
the other day. The general public did not
roll up as it should have; but the painter
had the satisfaction of knowing that the art
lovers appreciated her pictures. Discrimin-
ating people, like Rupert Bunny and Ber-
nard Hall, looked at the canvases and dived
after cheque books. Hall bought a charm-
ing pastel of a head, and Bunny foreclosed
on a landscape.
Artist Scheltema will have very few pic-
tures to take away from the gallery at
Tuckett’s Chambers. There are 88 in all,
and about 60 flaunted the red label a week
ago. J. FI. Scheltema —wise in his Dutch-
Australian generation—put tempting prices
on his pleasing little landscapes (as low as
from three to five guineas, in many cases,
and under 10 in most), with the result that
people who came to see remained to buy.
Some of the larger prices, too, were soon
snapped up. John Grice bougnt the striking
picture with cattle in it, at the far end of the
room. Whilst country folk were crowding to
the show of live stock at the Agricultural
Society’s grounds, “townies” trickled into
the Scheltema exhibition and took up grazing-
areas on catalogue terms. Nearly all the
paintings are in the artist’s modern style.
The distinctively Scheltema subject of yore,
with its placid stream, thirsty cows and pale
misty background, is rarely apparent. He
seems to have left his old familiar manner-
isms behind him when he tripped away to
Europe some three years ago. In Scotland
he caught the spirit of the heather, and on
his return to his adopted country Scheltema
improved his former acquaintance with the
spirit of the bush.
The Poster Picture Show (as a flippant
world will call it), otherwise the Children’s
Hospital Exhibition of Advertising Art, to
give the novelty its proper title, will draw
Melbourne to the Town Hall on the last
three days of this month. September 28,
therefore, is the opening day. The Art of
Advertising promises to appear in all its
dignity in this exhibition. The original de-
signs for posters one sees on the hoardings
will be surrounded by the originals of many
a striking newspaper ad. Prints and litho-
graphs are to have one section only. It will
be otherwise a loan collection of pictures
already sold to advertisers, as well as a sale-
able collection of new works. Also, Art,
with a capital A, is to provide such side-
shows as sketching competitions, concerts for
the promenaders and poster tableaux. Any
suitable frivolity that can tickle the crowd
and help the charitable cause will be intro-
duced. The Children’s Hospital wants a
little more cash to complete the new building,
and this happy idea should raise the needful.
The Fullers, the Maddens and the mayoral
Daveys are leading features on the bill of
natrons, whilst Public Curiosity is on the
look out.
Last week the Stork called at the South
Yarra house of Mrs. S. P. Mackay, formerly
known as Miss Fanny Dango. The bird
left a babe of the male persuasion.
Alfred Weedon, son of the buzzsome
“Talma” knight, proposes to supply poppa
with material for a bridal group. Miss Vere
Henry, a St. Kilda girl, it was who whis-
pered the bridegroom elect the soft answer
that turneth away misgiving.
Mrs. Campbell, a woman of vast sheep-
fold wealth, died rather suddenly last week
in Melbourne. She spent most of her time
in England while the wool and banking ac-
count flourished on this side of the line.
Her largest possession was Murray Downs,
a property of 90,000 acres with a river
frontage that has retarded the growth of the
town of Swan Hill for years. That hamlet
can’t get up and stretch itself without
bruising its arms against the fences of Mur-
ray Downs. The land tax almost induced Mrs.
Campbell to cut the place up; but the im-
post can’t be the burthen that many people
make out, for sue decided to hang on, and
the acres still shoulder one another in a
brotherly way. . She also commanded Keri-
nel-nel, a place of smaller acreage near Bal-
larat. This she occasionally used as a resi-
dence. Son Major Campbell is an energetic
member of the Royal Agricultural Society,
and was busily engaged with show matters
when his mother fell ill. He indulges his
agricultural inclinations near Mornington.
A daughter of the deceased lady married
Colonel Dallas, and lives in India. Another
is married and living in England. A third
is Mrs. Johnstone. The youngest son, Colin,
is generally to be found in Melbourne.
News comes that Irene Bagot, late of this
village, has been engaged for one of George
Edwardes’ cos. in agitated England. Irene
should make her mark. She has charm,
brains, style and youth, and is a remarkably
fine linguist. A younger sister, Olga Bagot,
is in training for the boards.
The title of Randolph Bedford’s coming
play has suggested a nom-de-plume for the
best-dressed she on these shores. A clubman
has labelled her the Lady of the Tuck Up.
She is in smiling evidence again, with a Ger-
man maid, some glorious French novelties
in gowns and hats, a coiffure of almost
blushing redness and a wonderful dog. No,
the dawg is in quarantine, not in evidence.
Winifred O’Connor’s overtaxed strength
gave out in the third week of “The Choco-
late Soldier,” and at time of writing she
has a bad throat as well as a good baby to
attend to. The melodious young matron is
nursing them both with tender care. Her
laryngitis must be largely due to the baby,
for that sweetest, dearest and most miracu-
lous of young Australians is only four
months old, or less, and the O’Connor lady
is a prima-donna who. takes her maternal
duties seriously. She should have commenced
the rest cure after the matinee last Wednes-
day. When the curtain was raised for a
moment in the finale, the applauding crowd
in front had only time to catch sight of
poor Nadina fainting on the stage, and then
down came the curtain again in a hurry.
Nevertheless, she struggled through her task
at night, after which the doctor issued an
injunction, and her understudy (Miss
Murphy) was called upon to lure the Choco-
late Warrior to his matrimonial fate.
A number of girl students had a Shaks-
pearian outbreak last week in the Wyselaski
Hall, when a cast, composed entirely of the
hatpin sex, did “The Merchant of Venice.”
Shylock looked rather like a nice Irish ter-
rier, and suffered from nervousness, which
may be ascribed to the trying make-up for
the part. However, the player won through.
The affair was originally intended to be a
mere rehearsal for the Christmas break-up;
but so much interest was aroused, that it
developed into a show on its own. The
players charged their sister-students 3d. a
head; cousins and aunts came in at higher
figures. It drew splendidly ; a whole thousand
tickets were disposed of.
The University and all its relations and
friends went up to the armchair of learning
on Monday, to hear H. B. Irving on his
friend Hamlet. The Wilson Hall was
packed tight with the spectacled and the
learned, who waited patiently for the actor,
whilst a frivolous orchestra on the platform
played comic opera selections. H. B. Hamlet
arrived at last, in charge of Chancellor
Madden, who piloted him to his place, then
hurried out and came back with Sub-Ex-
cellency Fuller. But, even then, things were
not quite ready for the start. There was
still a belated Governoress to-arrive. A little
later, Lady Fuller, wearing rather agitated
feathers and a hurried air, bustled up the
aisle with a gentleman-help striding duti-
fully in her wake. It happened to be a wet
day, and the highly-polished Chancellor car-
ried a ’brella like a magic wand during all
his excursions. After Lady Fuller had
arrived; he stood the brolly in a corner, and
allowed it to drip loyally while he beamed
on the proceedings. Then Hamlet Irving-
mounted a reading-desk, and the trouble
began.
After an hour of speechifying, the gather-
ing became a tea-party. Irving could not
stay, as he was due at the theatre; but
Ophelia Baird, with blue roses in her bonnet,
consented to be taken refreshmentwards by
a girl in a pu’ ,r> le University gown. Mr.
Hamlet was escorted to his motor with much
ceremony, while the uncultured wind howled
round the corner and chilled both the learned
and the furtively ignorant in a thoroughly
impartial way. The great actor looked like
a Dickens illustration. He wore a tall hat,
n plum-colored coat with black revers, and
tight trousers which seemed to terminate at
the ankles. For departure he adopted a
tragic air—possibly because he had missed
the tea.
The tannin function was held in the Con-
servatorium, which, once upon a time, was
the museum. The bones of the whale dangled
dismally outside the windows, and Ophelia
lilies draped the balconies. Nevertheless,
things were very cheerful, as the frivolous
band was present with a selection of bright
Sousa music. Gyles and Mrs. Turner were
in the thick of the hosting. Professor Nan-
son’s daughter, Mrs. Meyer, was artistically
draped in a purple cloth cloak. Mrs. Peter
Mcßride sported gold earrings and some
smart clothes ; and Mrs. Deakin towered over
the crowd in a mole-colored dress. The pro-
fessors’ wives buzzed amiably on the dais,
keeping their well-clad backs to the crowded
room and their faces towards Mrs. Irving.
A proposed premengde of the grounds was
declared off, owing to the rude blast pre-
viously mentioned and the driving rain.
Amy Castles unhappily acquired a sore
throat, and was forced to postpone the Town
Hall warblings which had been advertised
for Saturday and Monday. The turretted
and moated family has been striking bad
luck lately, for Sister Eileen had to relin-
quish the projected grand opera appearance
in Sydney owing to an untimely attack of
influenza. Sister Dolly has been motoring
about Melbourne in a cute white suit and
bonnet these last few days. She and Amy
were keeping house in Sydney for awhile
with Eileen.
The Swastika Dramatic and Musical
Circle’s second outbreak will include two
new playlets. One is “The Amateur
Phrenologist,” and the other “The Scribes,”
by Laura M. Palmer Archer (“Bush-
woman”). These are to be played by
the Circle at the Swastika Club on the even-
ing of September 25.
My Adelaide correspondent writes-
Our Art Gallery, which always has funds in hand
from the Elder or the Morgan Thomas bequests for
the encouragement of Australian artists—and which
never spends thousands on any one picture—has
bought “The Smoky End of Melbourne,” from
Blamire Young’s little show now being held in Ade-
laide ; also from Rupert Bunny's Melbourne exhibi-
tion, “The Coiffure” and a study of pollard willows.
Adelaide is spotted over with measles just now,
and schools everywhere are half empty in conse-
quence. Adults are not exempt. Last week, first a
nurse, then the doctor, and then the patient (who had
just been operated on for appendicitis) got measles
in quick succession, in the order named, and that,
too, in a hospital.
Octogenarian E. T. Smith has ceased to be patron
of the Commercial Rowing Club. Members learned
of his resignation with regret, and the committee
made him a life member of the club.
The W.C.T.U. is now out after the scalp of the
Gambling Evil; also, it has a violent grievance
against the tea and chocolate sellers who promise a
cricket match or a trip to Mars to whoever collects
the greatest number of their wrappers. Such cus-
toms, according to the temperance advocates, rouse
the worst passions in the infant breast. I wonder
what they’d say to the wife of a prominent race-goer
here, who invariably collects useless totalisator
tickets for her children to play with!
Talking of music, Frederick Bevan is to be lost,
in part, if not altogether, to the University here.
He’s decided to help in the directing of Edward
Branscombe’s shows. It is possible, however, that an
“arrangement may be made,” whereby a portion of
him, at any rate, will still be available for ’Varsity
work.
The Hunt Club race meeting approaches, and last
week the club rode between the Grange and Glenelg,
at the back of the Henley Beach-road, and over part
of the Point-to-Point Steeple Course. It wasn’t a
spot to attract a vast number of road followers. The
jumping was good ; the boy that laid the drag being
the only horseman to bite the earth.
Distracted by the scarcity of Mary. Ann, certain
dames met in the Mayor’s parlor on Thursday, and
indulged in discussion, of which the upshot was
that the Government be requested to fill the aching
blank by importing orphan girls from India. The
prospective servitors are not colored, being the off-
spring of British Tommies—so there seems no reason
whv the scheme shouldn’t catch on, provided there
is any appreciable amount of orphan Tommy-ess.
On Monday ni'-ht the Conservatorium students en-
tertained the dancing world in the Elder Hall. The
C.J.’s dame, backed by Mrs. "VVinsloe Hall, Mrs.
Willie Magarey (she who was Miss Guli Hack), and
other feminine pillars of the Conservatorium, smiled
pleasantly at the incoming guests, and took charge
of the vice-regal party when it arrived at 10 o’clock.
Red and pink festoons were the main feature of the
decorations, and various composers’ names, tacked
against the wall, made spots for rendezvous. Here
the committee gave cause for jest, having cheerfullv
mis-spelled Haydn. And at a music students’ ball,
too!
Mrs. Edwin Thomas also gave a small two-step at
her house on Dequetteville Terrace.
The rest of the week has been mainly “Show.”
On the opening day (Wednesday) Lady Bosanquet
turned up with a daughter and some aides, and
looked as interested as her husband. And there was
a fair sprinkling of “Society”-—especially that sec-
tion which “squats.” As usual, the Angases scooped
the pool for the cattle prize, and the popular Mel-
roses did well with the sheep. Despite wailings for
rain, the hayseed fraternity looked short of neither
food nor cash, and the woman who prides herself on
being up to date had the pleasure of seeing weird
travesties of her garments in all directions. There’s
a fortune to caricaturists in a show crowd. The
jumping events called forth most interest, and a trial
of hunters resulted in a nasty spill for “Bob” Cud-
more. His smash at Oakbank kept him for ages out
of the saddle, and it is bad luck that he should come
to grief so near the end of the season. Which re-
minds me that Mr. Langdon seems no better.
The Bosanquets have been feeding successful
squatters in heroic fashion all this week. An aide
was heard to refer to these affairs as “the Fat Beast
dinners”—a subtle reference to the waist-lines
of the pastoralists.
Apparently, Shows at the present ground are num-
bered. The accommodation is too limited, and nego-
tiations with the Government have practically con-
cluded in an arrangement which will take us to
Keswick in the spring and autumn of the future.
The change isn’t likely to eventuate for two years.
This week saw the return of the J. ,T. Duncans,
who’ve put in a cheerful eight months of travel.
Died t’ other day G. A. Wyld. Though, worth a
matter of £30,000, he spent years building, with
his own hands, a house in North Adelaide. It is
still unfinished.
Bordertown was flung into a condition of sizzling
excitement t’ other day by the discovery of a body
lying casually in the roadway. The local coroner,
undertaker, and other notables processed to the
scene and held solemn conclave, in the midst of which
the corpse sat up and asked for refreshment.
Blamire Young has hapnened along with a load of
pictures, which he’s exhibiting at the Art Society’s
rooms on North Terrace. The first buyer was old
Mr. Barr Smith, who was there in person. It’s not
often that he appears in public these days.
Sincerely yours,
JOHANNA.


tv
4
o
.
1
■
m
Mi X
x ***
—f .-v. 'tj
WjLs&~di
'X&Z < > / p
t*
mm
:
i
11111
*
¥
¥
*
¥
Stf/INDN
♦
L..»m
WGWtiCM
fM£ ttj$T9AJAt
STMMIP /• ,
AiL~
F:1
FI
chateau tanunoa tixitw
r% . scvn» r> XX
chateau tamunoa umitco
THAT round label on the Chateau Tanunda Brandy bottle Is
insignificant enough in appearance, but it has a significant
meaning.
Placed there by the Commonwealth Government, it proves, first,
and most important of a 11, that Chateau Tanunda Brandy is a
PURE AUSTRALIAN STANDARD GRAPE BRANDY.
In these days, when doctors are protesting so vigorously against
the use of raw, fiery alcohols distilled from improper materials, it is
important to know that CHATEAU TANUNDA BRANDY is a
STIMULANT ABOVE SUSPlClON—guaranteed so by the
Government.
Before this label is affixed to the bottle, the Customs officers
have to be satisfied that the contents have been —
U Distilled WHOLLY FROM GRAPE WINE by a pot
still, or similar process, at a strength not exceeding 40
per cent, overproof.
2. Matured by STORAGE IN WOOD for a period of NOT
LESS THAN TWO YEARS.
3. Certified by the Commonwealth officer to be PURE
BRANDY.
GOVERNMENT GUARANTEED.


H
AT the Official Banquet on the
occasion of the Investiture at
Carnarvon of HJR.H. the
Prince of Wales, last July . 13th,
the ONLY Whisky served was
WftTSOH’S No. 10
WHISKY.
That's proof for you.
Rexona.
The Rapid Healer is an Ointment which heals
with remarkable rapidity. Unlike the old-fashioned
ointments, which are very slow in their action,
Rexona speedily relieves after a very few applica-
tions. Sold in triangular pots at Is. 6d. and 3s.
SUPERSTITIONS
ABOUT RHEUMATISM.
Magic Rings and Other Foolish
Treatments*
There is Really Only One Way to
Successfully Treat the
Complaint.
People have Rheumatism when their
blood becomes tainted with Rheumatic acid.
Rheumatism is cured when the acid is
driven from the system. Some tew people
adhere to the old-fashioned idea that rub-
bing the affected joints with a hot limment
or something else will cure the trouble. -Lh ls
is foolishness, because the trouble is m the
blood, and the rubbing does nothing to re-
move the cause of the trouble. -To wear a
steel ring said to be magnetic, to cure Rheu-
matism, is a silly superstition.
The question of curing Rheumatism is
solely a' question of driving the acid out or
the system. Tnen there will be nothing to
cause Rheumatism, and the aching swollen
joints and all the pains will be gone. What
is needed to cure Rheumatism is a blood
medicine like Dr. Williams Pink lills.
They are for the blood. They tone the whole
system to a point that enables it to exp|
tiie Rheumatic poison through the natural
channels of the body. The following case of a
man who suffered with Rheumatism and was
cured proves their value in this complaint.
“My Rheumatism came on suddenly in
both legs after a wetting I got, said Mr. J.
M McLean, Kelvin Grove, Lormanby, Bns-
bane. “It troubled me most at the knees
and ankles. I was laid up more than a week,
and after that could only hobble about and
couldn't go outside the house. I was rubbed
with liniments to try and ease the sharp
stabs of pain, but I was only eased tor the
moment. I could not wear boots, as my
ankles were so swmllen and very red and
sore and dreadfully tender to the touch
when I was in bed the parts would feel as
if they were red hot, and it was out of the
question to get much sleep. My legs weie Jo
stiff I couldn’t possibly bend them. A fnend
advised me to give Dr. Williams Il i‘kPiUs
a trial. I noticed a change for the bette
when I was half-way through the second
box, and from then the pains rapidly de
creased. The swelling began to go dowi
and I could put on my boots and
freelv, and the stiffness went off. Two boxes
cured me, and I’ve never bad an attack
since. The way Dr. Williams Pink Pill
made me eat was wonderful. . . ;,
You can judge the shopmans opinion of
vou if he tries to sell you anything else
when you ask for Dr. Williams’ Pink Pils-
Those “just as good’’ remedies are ne\e
offered unless he thinks the customer easy
to gull. The price is 2/9 per box six boxes
15/3 of all dealers, or from the Dr.
hams’ Medicine Co., of Australasia Lt
Sydney.
MPTfiRg
S n ff er e r s
everywh ere,
secure safety
and freedom
from discom-
fort in Den-
ver’s Special
Elastic
Truss. Made
to exact size,
support andcomfort. Noirriratin^prin^DEHYEß
BROS., Truss & Abdominal
GEORGE STREET (opp. ll ““g*i LonsdaleStreels.’
and at Melbourne, cor. Swanston & Lonsdaie_stree_^
DENVER
©ii
\ A
17/6 Single;
22/6 Double.
Call or write.
POLITICAL
POINTS
ONE BIRD AND ANOTHER.
With regard to the labor question, I am ready to
admit that the existence of unions for industrial
purposes is a necessity, but when they become poli-
tical unions, and when their officers are used to pro-
mote strife and disturbance, we are confronted with
a problem that Parliament will have to deal with.
Extract from Deakin in Australian Parliament.
DEAKIN: “You’re a fine bird, but you ought
to be kept in a cage."
The dreadful Weary Goverment of Vic-
toria is sending to England for 160 miles of
steel rails to cost £160,000. That order, if
tilled in Australia, would employ the heads
of over 700 families (representing, say. 6000
persons) at more than £4 per week each.
And the Government would get so much
back from these 3000 local people in cus-
toms, excise, stamps, railway fares, income-
tax, local rates and sundrie's, that even if
the local rails cost 25 per cent, more than
the imported ones the investment would pay.
A 75 per cent, duty might perhaps draw
Weary’s attention to this point.
It is alleged on bad authority that the
rather ill-tempered Wood, M.L.A. <°
N.S.W.), has only struck the floor twice
since the present session began. Ihe rest
of the time he has been in the air, flym>,
out under compulsion.
When the N.S.W. “Liberal” member
quotes one of the dory papers at Speaker
Willis that gentleman has a cold, callous
habit of asking if he will vouch for the
truth of the statement. And he wont. Up
to now there has been never a vouch.
David Storey, in the New South Wales
Assembly the other night:
Brutus was a very great man, and so am •
I am still the leader of the Democratic party.
A contemporary patriot held the sword on
which Brutus flung himself after messing up
his democratic party, but as swords are out
of fashion nowadays Harry Levien might; be
induced to smother the noblest importer ot
them all in his own pot-hat.
Treasurer Watt’s Budget, as was feared,
offers no ray of hope for advanced Vic-
torian patriotism. It promises a consider-
able expansion of the inland railway sys-
tem, and talks of presently starting on the
electrification of the Melbourne local ser-
vice. Not a word about giving the Western
District its due and Portland its proper
place in national estimation. A railway line
that led to the establishment of a big ship-
ping trade at Portland would add immensely
to the wealth and strength of the State. Ihe
conversion of the. present Melbourne rail-
ways into an electric traction service will
merely please the city by ridding it ot a
little noise and a lot of sooty particles at a
large initial cost.
Weary Willie’s poor, little, weakling Bill
that proposes to compel Victorian boot-manu-
facturers who make brown paper boots to
brand them for what they are, has already
roused the ire of some of Melbourne s hoot-
case makers, and they lately told Vi att his
measure was harassing and a menace to en-
terprise. They omitted to state that it would
drive capital out of the country, but they
did say that, under the Watt scheme, certain
boot-sellers would be in an awkward posi-
tion, and would be in danger of gaol. J-he
deputation grew so hysterical over this latter
possibility that Watt hastened to allay then-
fears and promised consideration. Heaven
knows why Watt was so touched. Presum-
ably he wanted to send swindlers to gaol, and
his - grief when he heard they were likely to
get there is inaccountable.
By Galleryite :
Brew Smith, on the Address-in-Reply in the Reps.,
delivered himself of a hours’ lecture, speaking
from an unusually high—even for him—moral alti-
tude. But his was a very wily morality. He tom
Fisher that a self-respecting Ministry would have
resigned, in view of the majority cast against its
proposals at the Referendum. Webster rudely asked
Brew why he did not resign' his seat when he found
that he had been put in by a minority of the electors.
Whereupon the Shining Light of politics turned upon
him and said, “The hon. member must know that
if I do not reply to his interjections I have the
right to cut them out of the Hansard proofs.
This is a fact, being a custom established by Speaker
Holder. But it was an unheroic get-out of an awk-
ward position of the Lofty Member for Parkes. He
was also cornered over a reference to Fisher s action
in bringing the uniform decimal weights question
before the London Conference. He said that a reso-
lution in favor of the system had been passed by the
Australian Parliament in a House of 13 or 14 mem-
bers Fisher produced the Votes and Proceedings
and showed that it had been carried by 35 votes to
two. and the Superior Person was biffed again
The London Chamber of Commerce has
made a pamphlet of its resolution against
the Australian land tax and its stormy in-
terview with Prime Minister Fisher. J-he
dreadful Sydney D.T., quoting “instances ot
where the tax was more than the income,
adds that “British investors have sufficient
reason for fighting shy of Australia. Natui-
ally, the D.T. doesn’t explain what advan-
tage to Australia or any other country an
investor is who grabs a vast slice of tern-
tory and does so little with it that it doesn t
produce enough to pay threepence or four-
pence in the £. There is many a. small
farmer in Australia who, working Ins own
land, has lately been producing enough to
pay 15s. in the £. In fact, The Bulletin
knows of a S. Australian case where a sheep
run was turned into small cultivation farms,
and the net yield the first year was enough
to pay 300 pence in the £.
President Blackwood’s address at the
annual meeting of the Victorian Employers
Federation argued a sad lack of imagina-
tion. There were the same old diatribes
about the “trend of things,” about “viewing
with alarm” and “regarding with disfavor
the measures and proposals of Labor, but in
concluding his weep, Blackwood made a dis-
covery. After warning his hearers against
the tiger Sosh, ’he urged those who had any-
thing to lose to combine together (hitherto
they have doubtless "bbrnbined separately) m
their own defence, there being tens of thou-
sands of workers who had homes and sav-
ings to be guarded ffiom destruction. Black-
wood didn’t explain'how‘this destruction was
to be brought about, ~ atfd as the Statists
figures show that a majority of the citizens
possess savings and- tt-fair proportion own
homes, it looks as if the devastating animal
Sosh consisted Solely df Ctlie impecunious
remnant. The only devastation that has
happened to the small landbwner lately lias
been the State land tax, bjJL surely Black-
wood doesn’t accuse John Weary of being
Sosh? • - •
Victoria had three records this year. The 12
months’ revenue to 30/6/’ll was £9,14-,5o4,
which beat all past revenues out of sight.
That was one record. The other day a bit
of land in Bourke-street, Melbourne, was
sold at over £1075 per foot, which left even
the figures of the land boom period hull down
on the horizon. That was the second record.
And by way of a third record, John Mur-
ray, who used to be the most exhausted
Premier in Australia, is showing signs of
being more tired than ever, if it is possible
for Murray to be more tired without being
buried.
Hans Irvine, the Victorian Tory whine-
grower, has exhorted the House of Reps, to
take warning from “the disastrous
experience of Portugal after seven
months of Socialistic Government.
Poor old Portugal, the sunny land
of intellectual destitution and the
paradise of mendicancy, is supply-
ing Hans Irvine with an object
lesson in advanced politics! From
the awful spectacle of Portugal
demoralised by its non-Socialistie
Past, the eyes of Hans Irvine turn
to “his district” in Victoria, where
the land tax has decreased the
price of land 20 per cent.” Its
price, he says, has dropped from
£40 to £25 an acre, which, if . the
statement is true, means that the
grower gets as big a crop now oft
£25 worth of land as he used to
get off £40 worth. It almost seems
an advantage somehow. Appar-
ently the new order of things gives
the farmer 40 per cent, on his in-
vestment where he used to get only
25 per cent.
“The Speaker was roundly cheered.” . . .
“The meeting closed with cheers for the
Speaker ”... “It would be difficult to say
really wliat was the dominant impression
created by the address. ■ Sydney Tele
graph trying hard to put a good face on
things.
The S. M. Herald in its United States
letter (16/9/T1) reported a growing agita-
tion to shift Uncle Sam’s metropolis from
Washington to some site on the banks ot the
Mississippi, and its tone rather suggested
approval than otherwise. Washington is
Yassberra on a big scale. It has no special
advantages —coal, iron, water power, harbor-
age scenery, defensible position, etc. to
justify it in being a city. It simply repre-
sents the final compromise arrived at by a
crowd of infuriated State Frights—the same
as Yassberra. It is a conglomeration ot
hotels, hasn-houses, statues, Government
buildings and the like —just as Yassberra is
to be. And the Herald hints that it is going-
one of these days the way foolish old
’Berra will go one of these days.
The strike among the wheat lumpers at
Darling Island, Sydney, led to some curious
results. Seeing that all the wheat export
business of N.S.W. is crowded into Sydney,
and Sydney is so much crowded that only
half a’ dozen wheat ships can load at once,
the Sydney grain lumpers boss the situation.
So when they did their famous hold-up, the
wheat of the Cornstalk State was divided
into three parts—(1) the lot that was eat-
ins: its head off in Sydney; (~) the lot (a
million bags or more) that was gloomily chew-
ing its ear at country railway stations; and
(3) the lot that was starting by circuitous
routes to Melbourne, to seek a way of escape
there. There being no alternative port in
N.S.W.. Melbourne was the only outlet, it
made the good old parochial push mad to
see the trade going there, but it was the
natural result of the good old parochial
policy.
MORE LIKE A FRIEND!
It is the contention of this Government that its
administration has been harmless, and that, whatever
its policy may be, and however feebly it may at-
tempt to redeem its election pledges, it has at least
done no wrong.— D.Y. on Labor.
FATTY THE BOODLER: “ I do b'leeve I'd miss
him awf'ly now; I'm so used to his quiet,
inoffensive presence; and he never., by any
chance, steps beyond his reg[?]lar beat!"
The struggle to get the wheat of N.S.W.
along the congested lines to the one port
supplies some interesting results at times.
Figures were recently published showing the
amount stacked or bogged or bailed up at
country railway stations awaiting shipment,
for each week to September 9 for each of the
last three years. Four times m 1909 the
stock got above a million bags (maximum
1 089,830). In 1910 it got above the million
bag mark 34 times; for 13 weeks (out ot
36) it exceeded two and once it
srot above three millions (maximum
3101252). In 1911 the figure exceeded a
million 34 times out of 36; it was over two
million 19 times; and was over
three million (maximum 3,396,044). lhat,
bv the way, was in February, long before the
Darling Island strike. No wonder the bottle-
-neck becomes crowded.
NOT IN
HIS LINE.
INGRNDE:
“ See here ,
boss, you
owe me
three
weeks."
When are you going to cough up?
IRVING BERNHAROT: “Lady, I am an actor—
not a prophet!"
THE LONG-FELT WANT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
This is the Long-Felt Want.
This is the letter the secretary wrote to the member.
This is the letter the member wrote to the P.W.D.
This is the official of the P.W.D. who said, “D —!”
This is the Minister who remarked, “Well, I’m
d!”
This is the acknowledgment sent to the member.
This is the member’s proud note to the secretary.
These are the drinks the secretary had with the
chairman on the strength of things.
These are the drinks the chairman had with the
secretary on the strength of things.
This is the interval that elapsed.
This is the secretary’s reminder to the member.
This is the member’s indignant letter to the P.W.D.
This is the official of the P.W.D., who said, “D —!”
This is the Minister who also said, “Oh, H—l”
This is the “approval by the Minister” of the Long-
Felt Want.
This is.the intimation to the member that “the hon.
the Minister for Works had, etc., etc.”
This is the prompt note sent by the member to the
secretary.
These are the drinks the secretary and the chairman
joyfully had together on the look of things.
This is the interval that elapsed some more.
This is the furious reminder that the secretary wrote,
“In the name of my Board who are astounded,”
etc., etc.
This is the wrathful letter of the enraged member
to the P.W.D.
This is the P.W.D. that handed the wrathful letter
of the enraged member to the official, who said,
“D—!”
This is the Minister who remarked, “ the fel-
low !”
This is the letter from the P.W.D., stating that “the
Minister had been pleased to approve the sub-
mission of the scheme ‘to the P.W.D. com-
mittee’ for Inquiry.”
Tliis is the P.W.D. Committee for Inquiry.
This is the interval that went on lapsing some more
still.
This is the report of the P.W.D. committee.
This is the regretful letter from the P.W.D. to the
member.
This is the still more regretful ditto to the secretary.
This is the language of the secretary.
This is the ditto of the chairman.
This is the (Still) Long-Felt Want.
N.S.W.
O.C.C.


NICHOLSON'S
Tor PIANOS
NICHOLSON’S
MUSICAL
INSTRUMENTS
Strinway
PIANOS
Brinsmcad
PIANOS
Feu rich
PIANOS
Mignon
PIANOS
Nation
PIANOS
v We Sell on Very Easy Terms.
We Allow Full Value for Old
Pianos.
NICHOLSON 8 CO., Limited
342 GEORGE STREET.
And at Haymarket, Sydney ; Brisbane, Newcastle, Orange,
Toowoomba.
“ In the Grip
of AlcoHol!”
The Greatest Picture
Drama of the Year!
II
MR. SHOWMAN!
If you want your Pichire
Theatre to be packed , you
must book this film at once!
n
YOU CAN ONLY GET IT FROM
Pathe
50 Queen St.,
MELBOURNE.
Ĥ
Freres,
51 Elizabeth St.,
SYDNEY.
Ħ
H
FARMER’S PYJAMAS
ARE TAILOR CUT.
That, means they look shapely and fit the figure smartly, and are comfortable
to a degree. They are made in our own workrooms and carefully supervised.
They are obtainable in the following Summer-weight materials, with Patrol
or new Polo Collars, and Pearl Buttons. PROG ORNAMENTS, AS SHOWN,
2/- EXTRA.
No. M 72. —Cotton Crepe Pyjamas. In
fancy stripes; all tlie latest
designs. Light and cool tor
Summer wear. Patrol or Bradford
Collars.
Sizes 36 to 42in. Price, 9/6 the suit
Sizes 44 and 46in. Price, 10/6 the suit
No. M7O. —Fancy Oxford and Zephyr
Pyjamas. We stock these in all
sizes, in fancy stripes and checks,
latest patterns. Strong and dur-
able. All fast colors. Patrol or
Bradford Collars.
Price, 9/6 the suit
No. M 79. — Ceylon Pyjamas. Wool and Cotton Mixture, best qualities, in
fancy Stripes and Checks. Patrol or Bradford Collars. These are very
strong and durable. We stock a large assortment of latest designs.
Sizes 36 to 42 inches, 9/6, 12/6, 14/6 the suit
Sizes 44 and 46 inches, 10/6 and 15/6 the suit
FARMER’S, SYDNEY
%s.
m
JL
m
w
'n-
the
v
Insure the price,
whol clip
■and'
Vacmar,
It da


REACH’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE.
NO PRESERVATIVES.
Brewery and Offices
West Australian Agents—RICHARD HOLMES tc 00., PERTH. KALGOOOLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Dowling Street, REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
The final of the N.S.W. Rugby League
premiership, at Agricultural Ground (Sydney), on
Saturday, put up the shutters on the League’s most
successful season, when an attendance of 20,000 pat-
ronised the deciding struggle between Eastern Sub-
urbs and Glebe for the right to take hold of enough
jewellery to open a shop. At the end of the first
half Glebe led by only five points to two, having
failed to take advantage of the favoring high wind ;
but, in the second half, Messenger turned the breeze
to good account, and full time arrived with Eastern
Suburbs leading by 11 points to eight. Eastern
Suburbs can for the manyth time take off its head-
gear to Messenger for hauling it out of the broth,
for, during the afternoon, the Eastern Suburbs cap-
tain booted four goals—eight out of the 11 points
amassed by the side —and won the game. Glebe
scored two tries against one by Easts, and the de-
feated team crawled off the field, satisfied that, until
it can dig out a kicker with Messenger’s capacity,
the glory is likely to be one-sided. The game was .
hard and fast —a trifle too hard at one time, when
two men were sent off the field for showing more
attention to each other than the ball; but, although
the ambulance people had a busy time with ban-
dages, nothing worse than the loss of some inches
of skin and hair is recorded.
* * * *
During the present Rugby League season,
Glebe and Eastern Suburbs have clashed four times,
and, as the premiers lost only the first match (by
eight to nil), Glebe were wholly and truly wal-
loped. It was a case in which Glebe defeated most
Of the others, and Eastern Suburbs squashed Glebe
at the end.
* * * *
The early League struggle was over the
President’s Cup, for the possession of which Eastern
Suburbs squelched Western Suburbs by 15 points to
two. Although the match was far from being vigor-
ous, it supplied the only large injury of the day,
when McGowen was presented with a broken leg.
* * * *
The Australian Rules challenge final at
Erskineville Oval (Sydney), on Saturday, provided
an interesting tussle, when East Sydney trampled
down jSydney and won the premiership, and the right
to have its name engraved on the Rawson Cup. At
quarter-time the scores were two points each; at
half-time East led 10 to 2; and thereafter kept get-
ting ahead till, at whistle-time, it led by 29 points
to 16. The feature of the play was the fine defensive
play on both sides, and the low scoring shows that
each man was in his place. The big attendance at
the final blow-out, besides putting cash into the cof-
fers, emphasises the fact that the Australian Rules
brand of football is getting more than a toe-grip
amid the rush of the various brands for the spoil.
Metropolis v. H.M.S. Challenger supplied the early
fun, and the sailors were waterlogged by 65 points
to 49. The game was a trifle one-sided, and Jack
Tar probably found it much harder than splicing
rope and doing manv other things for the Glory of
the Empire.
* * * *
Messenger has put up a mighty record in
Rugby League football this season: In 14 competition
matches, he scored 148 points out of 251 piled up by
Eastern Suburbs —124 of which came from booting
62 goals. In three matches all the points of the side
were scored by the football leviathan; and, alto-
gether, Messenger’s right boot was more to be feared
than half the balance of the team. And now they
say he is going to get married. When shall we
sec his like again ?
The eastern section of Sydney found its
cup of joyfulness overflowing after Saturday’s foot-
ball. One "Eastern Suburbs team closed pn the Rugby
League competition medals and shield ; another stowed
away the President’s Cup in the Rugby League dis-
trict premiership; whilst yet another gathered the
challenge final under Australian Rules. Most of the
glory in this season’s football has dropped into the
(•astern pantry; and the balance of the city is in
sackcloth.
East Sydney’s success in the Rawson Cup
(Austral Rules) ended a long run of bad luck. In
1908 and 1910 the club hung out till the final, when
Y.M.C.A. crushed it; therefore the capture of the
glory this year is not out of turn. East’s victory
further hindered the Rawson Cup from getting a final
resting-place in Sydney’s pantry ; but the utensil will
probably not lead the wandering life much longer.
Y.M.C.A. and Sydney have each had two wins for the
mug, and another success by either club will consti-
tute absolute ownership.
Victorian League’s second semi-final, be-
between Carlton and Essendon, drew a mere 40,600
crowd —5000 less than last week—who paid £1397
17s. 3d. to see a quarter-hour’s real football. The
rest of the episode consisted of scrimmages and
scramblings. Carlton led off, and with difficulty
held on to its eight point lead up to lemon-time.
Both teams relied on main force, and the kicking
all round was lamentable. But on resuming, ’Don
gave a brief flash of the systematic play that has
won it so many games this season, and piled on
four goals before the flabbergasted Blues could re-
cover their wits. Even then, Carlton made no at-
tempt at the only kind of play that could have re-
trieved disaster —cool, methodical combination —but
plugged away regardless. It scraped up a few points,
but when the bell rang was still 21 to the bad —-six
goals 12 behinds to ’Don’s nine goals 15 behinds.
Except for the brief flash referred to, the game was
a sad failure as a spectacle, and a painful contrast
to the previous Saturday’s display. This coming
Saturday ’Wood and ’Don meet to decide the issue,
and. if present form is maintained, the ’Wood crowd
should win without “busting” itself.
The curtain-raiser to the big match—the Metro-
politan Ass. final between Leopold and Collegians—
afforded as sharp a contrast as one would see in a
season’s games. Playing smartly and with good
system, the Collegians went off at a great bat, piled
up 41 points to nix in the first quarter, and looked
to have the game won. But there were three more
quarters to come, and in those the Collegians put
on seven, one. and two points respectively, while the
Leopolds seemed to get fresher and lustier the longer
they played, and added 12, 26, and 39 points—77
in all to Collegians’ 51. It was a splendid recovery,
and settled the Met. Ass. premiership without the
need of a grand final.
While these disturbances were in progress the Ass.
was trying to fix the destination of its pennant at
North Melb., where Essendon encountered Brunswick
before 24,000 spectators, who got the full worth of
the £425 they paid. ’Wick’s fine system and speed
were here pitted against the less-perfect method of
’Don, aided by the exceptional skill of one or two
stars. ’Wick led throughout, but only by as many
points as a couple of straight kicks would have
nullified, and, towards the close, Essendon set out
after those kicks. It got one, which left it three
points to the bad. Then one of the aforesaid stars
'•‘marked” within easy distance, even as the bell rang.
He was entitled to a deliberate place-kick if he so
desired, but over-enthusiastic barrackers rushed the
ground, he aimed hastily, the shot went wide, and
Brunswick won by a pair of points—6s to 63. Hav-
ing lost, ’Don has the right to meet ’Wick again
this Saturday; had it not been so, there might have
been trouble over that last shot. As it was, the
arguments outside the ground were both willing and
frequent, and his Majesty’s revenue is likely to
benefit somewhat thereby.
According to Wellington (M.L.) Times,
which has published a very comprehensive history of
football in the Wellington and Wairarapa provinces,
the first hoof game in Wellington took place 43 years
ago, with ‘‘the best ball that could be procured in
those uncivilised days—a round one. A Rugby ball
had to be procured from Melbourne.” The first
match was played in 1868, between two companies of
the 18th Royal Irish Regiment; and the first Wel-
lington representative team was sent into the field
in 1870, against a team from the warship Rosario.
Up till 1871 “the game was known as the Melbourne
or blackfellows’ game, and it was not till July of
that year that the first match under Rugby rules was
played.” From that date the compilers of the his-
tory. Dan McKenzie and Ben Iveson interestingly
trace the progress of Rugby right through to the
high tide of triumph that swept the “All Blacks”
through Great Britain, and the football glutton can
have his fill.
* * * *
The inquiry by the A.J.C. stipendiary
stewards into the recent mix-up in the Tramway
Handicap at Randwick (Sydney) during which Town-
send was knocked off one of the competitors, re-
sulted in the suspension of jockeys P. Kuhn and G.
Hook for three months, and the warning of S. J.
Callinan. The cause of the stoush was that the
riders allowed the horses to cross the field too
sharply, and a big smash was narrowly averted. The
stewards are awakening to the fact that accidents
can only be avoided by punishment, and as the “three
months’ ” suspension will cover the coming Cup and
Derby season, the biffing is exemplary.
The ink wasn’t dry on The Bulletin's
remarks (14/9/’ll) re the retreat of racehorse
Blairgour in the Epsom betting market, when
Shamrock Moses swallowed his philanthropy and
pushed the animal back to the head of the quota-
tions. There was no reason why he should have been
reinstated —except that Moses may have found out
that the running wasn’t exactly as it ought to have
been; however, the see-saw is another pill for the
betting public to swallow. Amid all this rumpus
the Totalisator shrieks for installation and a fair
deal.
* * * *
Rosehill (Sydney) horse-meeting last
Saturday attracted a big crowd, and provided an-
other rehearsal for the gee-gees that are getting
ready for the coming big events. It was a disap-
pointing proceeding. The plum of the afternoon
was the Rosehill Guineas—a three-year-old event,
worth £525—-and all the prads which will strip for
the A.J.C. Derby lent a hand. As was the case
when Desert Rose triumphed in the same event last
year, an outsider came to the assistance of the
“books,” and Woolerina rather easily defeated the
more fancied “good things.” In the Spring Stakes,
(one mile) 13 top-notchers and others went down
before the little-thought-of Aurofodina, with Malt
King and Ladies’ Man next in order. It was a field
day for the Bearer of the Bag, and, in the six events,
only one favorite pulled punters out of the soup.
Trainer J. W. Noud reaped glory and cash at the
meeting, three of the winners being ’neath his care ;
while J. Seily polished two others. But Jockey W.
H. Smith, with two winning mounts, was the only
toiler who had more than a solitary success.
An Adelaide sportsman writes: The
figures (B. 31/8/T1) about big dividends at S.A.
Grand National Meeting don’t go quite far enough.
They only show the good prices a backer is laid —
one winner paid 78 to 1, and would have returned
26 to 1 even if he had run second! But consider
the benefit to clubs and owners. (There are no pro-
prietary race-meetings about Adelaide.) Stake-money
for the two days, £3OOO. Amount passed through
the totalisator, £44,000. Commission retained
(before paying the above big dividends), 2£ per cent.,
or £llOO. This went to the Verran Government,
every member of which, bar Attorney-General Denny,
hates racing. To the Club went 7i per cent. —
£3300. As a consequence, nomination and accept-
ance fees are trifling compared with those of Mel-
bourne and Sydney for a stake of similar size; and
stakes are being steadily increased all round. Natu-
rally, the Club passes on to owners and public the
profits it makes; and meanwhile there is not in
existence anywhere a person who stands to lose
heavily by your horse winning, and who is prepared
to pay heavily to prevent it winning. “Up with the
Tote, and down with the Bag” means that you can-
not get in early at a long price if you think you
have a good thing. On the other hand, it means
(1) You cannot muddle away anything whatever on
non-starters; (2) If your boy rides stiff, you must
have told him to do it yourself.
The claws of the hawk-nosed Booth reach
far. At a North Coast (N.S.W.) race-meeting the
other day, two uniformed Salvampires stood out-
side the gates, holding forth their collection-boxes
for a share of the gamblers’ gains. Evidently, in the
Booth view, there is no dirty money.
* * * *
The totalisator maintained its usefulness
as a friend of punters at Adelaide on Saturday,
when investors on Calamus, in the Spring Handicap,
received a dividend of £25 11s. ; and backers of
Schafer, the second horse, were consoled with £4 6s.
In other events prads which filled second place re-
turned divs. of over £3—a species of philanthropy
which would make the live meat gambling machine
weep bitterly into its bag.
The Victorian 10-Miles Cross Country
Championship, on Caulfield racecourse (Melb.) and
the adjacent paddocks, last Saturday afternoon, saw
some 400 starters. Picking the unit proved the
toughest problem since paper-chasing first occurred
some 20 years ago. A few hasty prophets predicted
Bill Murray, who ran a fine seven miles a few weeks
back, and inspired confidence by a clipping 10 miles’
trial on the track. But sound judges contented
themselves with predilections rather than predictions.
The winner—Dave Turnbull (East Melbourne har-
riers) —-was a bolt from the blue. He is a compara-
tively new runner, though a couple of seasons ago
he compiled some good figures in distance races.
The field tore up the straight like an Oriental car-
nival running amok, but the second time past the
stand settled the squib division, and the stayers took
command. Leaving the course for the cross-country
running, Charlie Ryan, Turnbull, Murray and Coy
were at the head of affairs. Murray looked an odds-
on winner, but instead of forcing things he kept com-
pany with Ryan and Coy. In fact, there wasn’t a
ped. amongst the crowd with the confidence to go out
and smash ’em up. The leaders waited on one an-
other, with the result that on perfect going, and
under splendid weather conditions, the time put
up by Turnbull —60min. 22sec. —was nothing to
write home about. Over the last mile the “knowing
ones” reckoned Charlie Ryan (second to Suffren in
1908) would do the trick, but the unhappy Charles
contracted a pain, and fell back into fourth position.
Tom Vines and Murray supplanting him. Of the visi-
tors, Temple Wood (East Sydney) was sixth. He
found the battle, with a field of some 400 peds. (32
teams) a vastly different struggle from pipping 99
athletes in the Ma State affair. The teams’ race fell
to Essendon, with a very meritorious score of 93
points against Botany Harriers (Sydney), 110.
The Australian open golf championship
at Rose Bay (Sydney) was a triumph for the profes-
sionals. Amateurs and professionals mingle in golf
championship struggles; and in last week’s dust-up
the pros, filled the four leading places. The out-
come of smiting a small ball four times round the
course was a win for Carnegie Clark (with a score
of 321), followed by F. Popplewell (322), D. G.
Soutar (324) and R. S. Banks (325). As Popple-
well gathered in the Australian medal a week pre-
viously, he is enjoying a rush of golf glory.
* * * *
The Royal Sydney Golf Club invites pro-
fessionals to compete at its open championship con-
tests, and makes them honorary members while the
upheaval is in progress. But all the same, it rubs
in the fact that pros, are not considered gentlemen.
There were 15 of them at the open championship last
week, and they found a small bedroom, occupied by
a steward, handed over to them as a dressing-room.
In the bar, notices were posted up that they were
not to be supplied with drinks. Their meals were
served in a tent, so exposed to the wind that the
grub was blown off the table. They were not
allowed to use the bathrooms; and, to crown all,
were barred from using the club house lavatories.
The pros, consider that the Royal Sydney Golf Club
should import an instructor in politeness, and if the
things the pros, say are true, the club requires in-
struction badly. A rather feeble letter from the
secretary has appeared in defence. #
“S.T.S.”: Rev. Sidney Swann, who has
just dodged across the English Channel in a skiff,
was a great Cambridge oarsman nearly 30 years ago.
He was at the same college (Trinity Hall) as J. T.
Bell, and rowed in the Cambridge eight with Stephen
Fairbairn. Sheer strength, without much science,
was his great point. When in the “boat” he en-
tered for the chief sculling event, the Colquhouns,
and was not supposed to have a chance ; but, having
the luck to strike a head-wind day, he pulled himself
home ahead of all the more polished, but less power-
ful, rivals. He is just the man to tackle the baffling
Channel currents —but why he waited till he was 50
or thereabouts, is a mystery. #
According to the first annual musketry
course return for N.S.W. rifle clubs, there are 13,108
sportsmen who put in spare time at the rifle range
instead of hooraying at football matches or backing
the bob-tailed nag that leadeth unto destruction.
Of these, 12,315 (or 94 per cent.) gained the certi-
ficate of efficiency. The excellent pass is probably a
result of the warning issued by the military authori-
ties that inefficients could expect the axe, and the
ultimatum had an excellent effect on a pastime which
isn’t a joke bv a long way. The roll for 1910-11,
however, is 3010 below that of 1908-9 ; but, whereas
only 793 failed to nass in the last exam., the non-
efficients two years ago totalled 5775. Rifle-shooting
is gradually passing from the hands of the pot-
hunters of a few years ago to the patriots whose
leisure time is spent qualifying for the defence of
their country. Here’s luck to ’em!
* * *
The sharks are giving an early invitation
to Sydney surf-bathers to come into the surf. At
Watson’s'Bay, last week, a 14ft. solicitor swam close
in-shore, with a card between his teeth just too
late to meat a party of bathers. At other portions
of the Harbor similar calls were made during the
week, owing, perhaps, to the rise in the temperature.
Meanwhile the rush to the surf has set in, of citizens
prepared to take the usual chance, whether the
finned fraternity is hungry or not. #
N.S.W. just squeezed out ahead of
Queensland in the inter-State bowling rubber, at
Brisbane, last week. The visiting tribe gathered.in
the first two matches by 111 to 97, and 98 to 89 ;
but at the third attempt the Bananalanders had their
revenge in a win by 96 to 84. In the three matches,
therefore, N.S.W. aggregated 293 to 282 —a small
victory which isn’t much for Ma’s players to crow
about. Still, it is enough.
* * * *
America by outplaying the invading Bri-
tish lawn tennis team last week, grasped the right to
tackle Australasia at Christchurch (M.L.) at the
end of the year. The Board of Control has arranged
for the use of Lancaster Park, for which 20 per cent,
of the gate will be handed out, while the balance will
be divided between the Australasian and Amencan
authorities. The “gate” is probably a dubious affair.
Maoriland is distracted because Wilding isn t coming
back to lend a hand in the struggle.
* * * *
The annual Christchurch-Timaru (M.L.)
bike race, reeled off on Thursday, September 7,
seems to have been somewhat severe. No less than
37 of the 107 starters failed to finish. P. O’Shea,
the scratch man who put up the fastest time, ran
over the 112 miles in shr. 37min. 31$see. lhe
first man home, however, was G. W. Pnbble, who
started with 35min. handicap. He took 6hr. 22sec.
His runner-up, E. Slow, also on the 35mm. mark,
gave evidence that his name was badly chosen.
Jake de Rosier, of the U.S., the world’s
champion motor cyclist, has smashed two more
motor-cycle records on the Brooklands Track (Eng.)*
He tore over a mile from a flying start in 40 4-ssec.,
equal to 88.2 miles per hour, and a flying start kilo-
metre (1093yd5.) in 25 l-ssec, equal to 88.7 miles
per hour. Jake is straining his luck very hard these
times.
H. J. Davis has ’collared the Westralian 25-
miles road championship for Victoria; but he only
won by half a wheel from A. Kaiser, who established
the fastest time in the Beverly-Perth road race.
Westralia has unearthed a promising road-racer m
Kaiser, and he will represent the State m the Warr-
nambool struggle. # *
E. Larsen, of Richmond River, and G.
Matterson, of George’s River —-two promising Ma
State professional lightweight scullers —had a splash
at Broadwater (N.S.W.), on Saturday, for £2OO
stake-money over a three-mile course. Larsen (who
knows the course from A to Z four times over, and
is the heavier of the two), scrambled m first after
a sensational race. The match was one of a series
scheduled for the coming few months, out of whicn
a top-notcher may perhaps emerge.
* * * *
English cricketer Dick Lilley retired from
first-class cricket at the end of July, not even staying
to see the season out, and his own county go unex-
pectedly to the top of the list. Smith, who comes
out in the England XI., had kept wicket most of
this year when Lilley was plaved for his batting.
The veteran had been Warwickshire’s “keeper” dur-
ing most of his extraordinarily long career. He
started in 1888, when Warwick was only a second-
class county. His test-match record is perhaps the
recor( i —32 games, including two Australian tours,
but not including three more against South Africa.
Meanwhile, he has built up a good business as an
athletic outfitter in Birmingham.
* * * *
Nowadays the motor pokes into corners
where scarcely an axe, far less an axle, has been be-
fore. For instance, J. Tolston, of Clermont (Q.),
wanted to have a look in on race day at Charters
Towers, and started out merrily on the 300-mile job.
There was the usual trouble at the creeks, etc., but
the unusual jolt was felt when, cross-countrying,
the vehicle ran full-tilt into an anthill that was
hidden by the long grass. The party reached the
jawboned bookie on the fourth day out.
Sam McVea, the nigger who is to be given
another chance at Johnson, is a first-class sailor-man,
and has been to Australia before in a nautical
capacity. He reckons he has an unusually good
chance, through having studied Johnson’s methods at
close quarters; and his description of them to the
Adelaide reporters is remarkably like what The
Bulletin said after the extinction of Burns. “He
doesn’t hit you; he defends and waits. He makes
you go for him, and then wears you down. He stops
blows that would break a man’s ribs —on his arms.
Then you get groggy; your arms seem lifeless.
Johnson brings in his deadly uppercut—that’s the
end.” McVea has twice got through “the limit
number of rounds” with Johnson (exhibition spars
probably), and the third time “was going well
throughout 19 rounds, but was caught in the 20th
by an unlucky blow, and lost.” (M’yes ; quite a lot
of men have had that experience.) McVea is a
pleasant nigger, anyway, and the nearest he has got
to the regulation pugilist’s Blow, is in saying that
Johnson seemed more willing to meet other fighters ;
“he thought somehow he would for me have to exert
himself too much.” And, since then, it is cabled
that J.J. is not coming to Australia at all. So it
may be up to McV. to go and hunt for him.
Hugh D. MTntosli may be Scotch, but
that does not deter him from working a joke on the
public now and again. The latest was the Kenney-
Whiting fixture at the Sydney Stadium on Saturday
night. Kenney is an American, who wafted in from
the Open Drift some little time back. Practically,
he was an unknown man, and the ludicrous exhibi-
tion he made on Saturday night calls for some ex-
planation from the Stadium management to the pub-
lic, who were relieved of anything from 2s. to 10s.
each to see the farce. Kenney was said to have shown
some boxing skill in recent sparrings with Lester, but
if the Stadium people cannot, or do not, get the
measure of a stranger better than they did in the
case of Kenney, before selling him to the public as
a fighter of quality, they must expect to hear much
blank and more blanky. As for Whiting, the Vic-
torian, he was a foeman worthy of the other duck-
walloper, The circus went for 20 rounds, and
“Snowy” Baker declared Whiting the winner, prob-
ably owing to the fact that there is no by-law whereby
he could declare them both losers and fine them
30 bob.
Tahmmy Burns’s claim to a half share of
young Lester’s net receipts from his boxing busi-
ness for the next 10 years is a lovely exposure of
how the noble sport of stoush is promoted nowadays.
The old-time backer of novices, who took a cash risk
to give his protege a chance, has been replaced by the
Tahmmy showman, who practically stages a fight
comedy, by arrangement with the lessee of the
theatre (or stadium), and scoops half the salary of
the star actor, apart from his possible percentage of
the managerial profits. Anyhow, the terms of the
alleged lease whereby Tahmmy reaps 50 per cent, of
Lester’s annual crop of golden grain, gave Tahmmy
a direct interest in the receipts from last week’s
performance. If the management of the Stadium
was to get 35 per cent, of the gross, or net, and
the two actors were to share the other 65 per cent,
between them, Tahmmy, as half owner of one of the
actors, must have been entitled to have his own
business representative in “front” of the house, to
watch his interest in the gate. Australia has been
a great country for Tahmmy. He knocked thousands
of pounds out of it what time he was getting belted by
Massa Johnson, and now he is tapping its resources
from afar off. Presently he will be sending another
white novice, perhaps, to fight Johnson on sharing
terms. And he will have, say, a 75 per cent, interest
in his articled pupil’s share.
* * # *
The man behind the punch came out on
top in the Walsh-Hale encounter (Melbourne Athletic
Club) a few evenings ago. Bill Walsh, Melbournian,
weighed list. 101 b. ; Percy Hale, Sydneysider, 12st.
Hale is far the neater man, with the better reper-
toire, both in offensive and defensive measures, but
Walsh is hard and dogged, and can slip a jpunch that
looks as if it would shift a ship. The Sydney boy
was hale and hearty in the early rounds, and shot
his left at Walsh in a monotonous series that made
Bill look like the principal feature in a tram acci-
dent; Occasionally Walsh crossed his foe, but Percy
bore his cross patiently, till a shock in No. 4 nearly
lifted him out of his boots. Hale was never the
same man after that. Another earthquake in No. 8
was practically the dead end for Percy. He arose
full of rash purpose, ran into a raking fire from his
enemy’s left, and dropped again. The gong boomed,
but Hale didn’t rise to the occasion, and his seconds
thought that, on the whole, their corner had “done
its dash.”
* * * *
The Mclnstoush purposes giving the
“white hopes” plenty of opportunities to qualify for
a smack at Johnson for the world’s boxing cham-
pionship. The Sydney Stadium fixtures will enable
Lester to tackle darkie McVea on September 30, after
which, if he “makes good,” Jack Johnson will be
tackled for the bauble on Boxing Day. (That is, if
Johnson ean be leg-roped into Australia.) However,
if the result is the other way about, Lang and Lester
will have another splash on October 21, and the
winner will confront Johnson (assuming there is any
Johnson) on the date named. It looks, therefore, as
if there will be plenty of stoush meals put before
the public for a little while.
* * * *
“Marinoa”: Magnificent Mac did a wise
act in putting back the fixture between Hughie
Mehegan and Jack Read, the ex-amateur. Such a
match would be a crime against Read apd the public.
Despite the boosting Read has received from the
dailies, he is not by any means in the first flight,
and I venture to predict that he never will be. I
watched him carefully in his fight with Dealer Wells,
and am satisfied that Wells, in condition, would box
his head off. Read’s trouble is he doesn’t know
enough, and seems incapable of learning. Against
a champion of Mehegan’s calibre, Read would stand
no more chance than “Ramoth Gilead,” and the
Mclnstoush is to be commended for relegating the
fixture to oblivion—or the place next door.
From a wandering Australian:—
Buenos Aires still claims to be the Paris of the
South, although, as a matter of fact, the Argentines,
thanks to a strong admixture of foreign blood, are
fast becoming a hard-headed commercial race, with
a good deal more of the New York style than the
Parisian. One proof of that rests upon the fact
that there are few places in the world where so little
can be bought for so much. Roughly speaking, a
peso (Is. 9d.) has the purchasing power of a shilling
in Australia. But the women ! They are simply It.
The susceptible Australian, taking his first stroll
down Palermo od a Sunday afternoon, is dazzled and
bewildered by the beauty and grace of the senoritas.
True, they are all of one type; but it is a type that
never wearies—great, lustrous, black eyes, and full,
willowy figures. The only drawback is the universal
use, by rich and poor alike, of rice-powder. An
idea, very prevalent among untravelled Saxons, is
that these daughters of the Sunny South ripen early
and then “go off” with corresponding quickness.
Such is not the case. The Argentine matrons are,
if anything, handsomer than their daughters. Cer-
tainly, many of them axe inclined to put on flesh
as they grow old; but it is an embonpoint with
graceful and most pleasing lines. The cit y ltse “
is becoming more moral as it grows older, though,
even now, the stranger who can “sling the bat, or
is able to command a friendly pilot to show him
round, regardless, can count on a week’s entertain-
ment that in Australia would keep a Pleasant Sun-
day Afternoon Association in sermons calculated to
fill the hall to overflowing for a year. “The Sports-
man,” the chief English bar, has a bioscope running
at all hours, and if Bro. Worrall could drop m for
an evening, especially after midnight, I reckon ms
brolly would catch fire.
DRY RETCHING.
IMMEDIATE RELIEF OBTAINED
FROM DR. MORSE’S INDIAN
ROOT PI[?]S.
“1 was a sufferer from dry retching,”
writes Mr. Thomas F. Colman, of Tweed
Heads, N.S.W., “and went off my food, when
a resident of Croydon, Queensland, some
time ago; and on the recommendation or
some of my personal friends I decided to
give Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills a trial
to try and overcome this malady. I found
they afforded me immediate relief from dry
retching by taking two pills before dmne l
and three before retiring. I can say they do
not gripe, but act mildly and satisfactorily.
As a blood medicine I can also certify to tne
good effects of a course of Dr. M°rs e s In
dian Root Pills. Although I received skilled
medical treatment to no result, your rem .
has caused some old sores to heal rapid y.
and, therefore, I speak of them after us n
with satisfactory results. You can publisn
these lines if you desire.”


THE
Ĥ
Ħ
H
Ĥ
SHOE
330
In
Half
Sizes
14/6
27/6
to
Construction.
A medium grade Shoe
well made is better than
a high-priced Shoe poorly
made—examine the stitch-
ing of a MRRSHftLL
—the manner in which
the sole, heel and upper
are joined in a perfect
whole—sure evidence of
expert workmanship and
a high standard always
maintained.
Write for Style Book.
MARSHALL SHOE CO., Richmond, vic.
LOOK FOR NAME ON STRAP.
00 (double‘o')
Old Orkney Whisky
EASY TO USE.
POST 45!- FREE
ANYWHERE.
CASTRATOR.
SHARPE’S PERFECT EMASCULATOR com-
bines the Best AMERICAN IDEAS with RELI-
ABLE ENGLISH MANUFACTURE.
It CRUSHES before it CLEANLY CUTS ; makes
Hemorrhage Impossible.
RAPID-SAFE-MERCIFUL. Has just the proper
power. Satisfaction or Money Back.
Write for Knife & Vet. List.
SHARPE & SHARPE
18 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
SPARES FOR MOTOR CYCLES.
By always having spares in your repair outfit you may save much
unnecessary trouble. When anything goes wrong you will save time, and,
by purchasing what you need here, you will save money, because our
prices are the lowest in Sydney.
We are the sole N.S.W. agents for the famous F.R.S. Motor-Cycle Lamps,
which throw a beam for 1000 feet; and Riddling Generators, stocks of which
we are opening shortly. /
The best makes of Sparking Plugs, Lamps, Magnetos, Saddles, Belt
Fasteners, Belt Punches, Goggles and Repair Outfits always in stock.
Ħ
BENNETT & BARBELL, LTD.,
Agenta 'or T ri^„p , *"*" C *°'"''
THe Style that Appeals!
The Rigney Shoe is a high class production
in which quality is paramount to other claims.
The Rigney represents the highest ideal of
shoe comfort and elegance.
In point of appearance, wear and comfort
the Rigney Shoe stands alone.
The Shoe illustrated is a Dark Tan Wil-
low Calf Derby Shoe, Rope Stitched welts,
16/6, 18/6, 21/-, 22/6. Also in Black, 19/6,
21/-, 22/6.
Postage 9d. extra.
WRITE FOR A COPY OF OUR CATALOGUE.
Rigney Shoe Co.,
" The Men’s Exclusive High-Grade Shoe Stores,”
305 GEORGE ST., and
179 a PITT ST., SYDNEY.
H
Please note that the new shop in Pitt Street is under the personal management of Mr. F. C. Rigney
the sole and only proprietor of the above firm. ' ’
t
Speeding up!!
“Speeding up” an operator on a
low efficiency Machine Tool usually
leads to friction, whereas on a modern
tool, designed with convenient mo-
tions, the machinist soon becomes
interested in obtaining a rapid produc-
tion.
Are your machine tools running efficiently?
Because a machine is running, it does not
always follow that it is running efficiently.
The Machine Tools that we stock are efficient
producers—built right, replete with every
modern device for rapid production and
accuracy, we can quote from stock a full
workshop equipment. Send for Catalogue.
Write Dept. “ M.”
Thos. McPherson S Son,
“ The Engineers’ Depot.”
554-566-582-588 Collins Street,
Melbcurne.
Ĥ
Yon get more Fuel Miles
out of
SMELL
than out of any other Motor Spirit
THAT'S WHERE ITS PER-
FECT PURITY SAVES YOU
MONEY.
WHENEVER you see a bear with
tinent on his back, think of THE
HAND. It’s swag is a Continent.
a Con-
LONE
THE “CONFOMAT”
(Regd.) A Boon to Australians.
THIS Hat provides the acme of Comfort
and Luxury in headgear. Is unlike
the ordinary stiff felt hat. It con-
forms—as its name implies—to the wearer’s
head.
If you wear a “Confomat,” your head will
fit the hat —rather than the hat your head.
The head, of itself, makes the shape of the
Ilat. Nothing could be more delightful, easy
and comfortable. Headaches impossible.
Handmade by special process from choicest
materials. Exceptionally light and durable.
Fast-dyed. In all the 'latest shapes and styles.
Guaranteed to give complete satisfaction.
Price, 13/6 at all leading Stores throughout
Australia. The name “Confomat” is regis-
tered, and infringements will be dealt with
according to law.
If unobtainable in your district, write
direct to
THE AUSTRAL HAT MILLS, LIMITED,
ABBOTSFORD, MELBOURNE.
BNoHdoSSIK
THE
Natural Talking
Machines.
From £3 ‘o £27/10/-
FAVORITE
DOUBLE
SIDED
RECORDS
3/-
each.
3/-
each.
Needles 9d., 1/-, 1/3,1/6 per box.
PATHE ATTACH M ENTS.
Sound Boxes ... 17/6 each
Sapphires ... 2/6 „
CATALOGUES ON APPLICATION.
Write to us or our Agents—
J. HESS & CO.,
199 Clarence Street. SYDNEY.
Make
your
own
Cigarettg
If is
twice
as good.
CIGARETTE
PAPER
BE.ST and, VBBBST
IF NOT PROCURABLE AT YOUR
TOBACCONIST APPLY TO THE AGENTS
Jacobs Bros. L*? 255? George S? Sydney
Ħ
Zaw Points
/nuentors
Can I Obtain a Patent ?
The quickest wav to ascertain this,
WITHOUT EXPENSE, is to write
to me describing your invention, enclosing a small sketch
where necessary. Nicety of drawing is not essential ;
all that is necessary at first is to give me YOUR IDEA.
I will at once inform you whether the idea is patent-
aide, and, if so, give the necessary instructions for
further procedure.
Persons desirous of obtaining really reliable advice or
information regarding Patent matters are cordially in-
vited to consult me personally or by letter. In all cases
a careful consideration of their plans, an honest opinion,
and a prompt reply may be expected.
A. J. CAL.LINAN, Patent Attorney,
Citizens’ Buildings, Collins Street, Melbourne.
CARBIDE.
For First-Class
Results use
Best
H
“PERNIX” CARBIDE.
Addresses of Merchants distributing it can be obtained
from AUGUST BLUMENTHAL, LIMITED, 62
Pitt Street, Sydney, Sole Ag nts for Australia.
Millars’ Karri 8 Jarrah
Co. (1902), Ltd.
We Supply—
JARRAH Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’ Scant-
ling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
72 BISHOPSGATE STREET WITHIN,
LONDON, E.O.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68£ PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.VV.
Branches in all parts of the world.
THE Australian Magazine. THE LONE
HAND, the National Monthly. Price 6d.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS
These Pills are of proved effectiveness in the treatment of the distressing com-
plaint of piles, both internal and external. They eradicate the trouble by purifying the
blood, which no outward application can possibly do. They are non-aperient, can be
taken with the utmost safety, give instant relief, and effect a speedy and permanent
cure.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLfe are sold by leading chemists and storekeepers. If you can-
not obtain supplies, send Postal Note for 3/- to the Proprietors, and a box will be sent
you, post free.
SOLE PROPRIETORS
ANDREW MURPHY LTD.
Dept. B, 109 Regent St.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


HOUSE FOR BEAUTIFUL WEDDING GIFTS.
THE
A. SAUNDERS
THOUSANDS OF DELIGHTFUL IDEAS TO CHOOSE FROM
STRAIGHT FROM OUR LONDON HOUSE.
A. SAUNDERS.
SERVIETTE RING, Pure Silver-plated
and Engraved, 4/6-
A. SAUNDERS.
SAUCE BOAT AND DRIP-OATCHER, Pure
Silver-plated on Nickel Silver, Beaded Edge,
20/-
A. SAUNDERS.
TOAST RACK, Pure Silver-plated
Nickel Silver, Highly Burnished,
and Richly Embossed, £2-
A. SAUNDERS.
SUGAR AND CREAM STAND,
Pir» Silver-plated Nickel Silver
Frame, Floral China, 35/-
A. SAUNDERS.
CRUMB SCOOP, Pure Silver-plated, Nickel Silver,
Highly Burnished, Richly Hand-engraved,
15/6-
ORDER BY
MAIL
’TIS EASY
AND SO
SATISFACTORY.
A. SAUNDERS.
lIOT-WATER KETTLE AND STAND,
Pure Silver-plated Rustic Stand, Richly
Embossed, £2/10/-
DESIGNED BY THE BEST ENGLISH ARTISTS
IN MANY BEAUTIFUL FORMS.
THE VARIETY IS IMMENSE. QUALITY Al.
PRICES MOST MODERATE.
A. SAUNDERS.
EGG FRAME AND SPOOAS,
Silver-plated Nickel Silver,
10/«
ii)
<S 7? t
SB
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTER DISH, Pure Silver-
plated Nickel Silver, Pure
Crystal Cut Glass, 15/6-
A. SAUNDERS.
CAKE OR FRUIT DISH, Silver-plated Frame,
Fancy Floral China Dish, T/tt-
A. SAUNDERS.
TEAPOT, Pure Silver-plated, Richly Hand-
E’nhnssed, “Waratah” Design, 27
A. SAUNDERS.
PRESERVE DISH, Silver-plated, “Gondola’
Design, Clear Crystal Dish, Richly Bur-
nished Frame, 1 2/6-
A. SAUNDERS.
CHINA SALAD DISH, Floral Design, Handi-painted'.
Size, 9in x 9in. (>/(>•
Other Styles, 2:/, 2/6, 3/.
A. SAUNDERS.
BISCUIT BARREL, Hand-painted,
Carlton China Pure Silver-plated on
Nickel Silver Mounts, 257-
B'AVV'V v.'V"
wi’Mf
A. SAUNDERS.
ART CHINA STATU-
ETTE ornament,
7iin high, 5/- P a ! r -
9in high, 7/ per Pair.
OUR
JEWEL-
LERY
CATA-
LOGUE
IS
FULL
OF
RARE
DESIGNS.
WRITE
FOR
A
FREE
COPY.
WE
PAY
POSTAGE
ON
SILVER
WARE.
WE
DO
NOT
PAY
POSTAGE
ON
CHINA
GOODS.
AN IDEAL GIFT.
R
.
A
Rare,
Beautiful,
and
Quaint
Design,
£2.
Of
Fine
Work-
manship
and
Perfect
Finish,
£2.
ROSE BOWL, Hand-embossed, Gilt-lined,
Silver-plated, Mounted on Ebony,
£2/5/, £2/10/, £3.
OUR
SILVER-
PLATE
CATA-
LOGUE
CONTAINS
OVER
2000
ILLUS-
TRA-
TIONS.
IT
IS
quite
FREE.
THE
LARGEST
VARIETY
OF
UP-TO-DATE
NOVELTIES
IN
AUSTRAL-
ASIA.
OF
BEAUTY,
EXCLUSIVE-
NESS,
AND
VALUE.
A. SAUNDERS.
SPECIMEN TUBE,
Pure Silver-plated
on White Metal,
Handsomely Hand-
embossed, 3in,
13/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
DINNER CRUET, Pure
plated Nickel Silver,
Burnished Crystal Glass
21/.
Silver-
Richly
Bottles,
a. Launders.
AFTERNOON CAKE DISH, Hand-painted!
Floral China, size 9in, 6/6-
Small Servers to match, 1/6 each,
A. SAUNDERS.
PRESERVE DISH, Pure Silver-
plated Nickel Silver, Crystal
Glass Dish, 12/f»-
SALAD
Bowl
A. SAUNDERS.
BOAVL AND SERVERS, Handsome Glass
Pure Plated Nickel Silver Mounts,
’ “Squirrel” Design, 20 /•
WRITE FOR A COPY
OF OUR
HOME EYE TEST CHART.
A. SAUNDERS.
CHINA TEASET, 40 Pieces,
Handsome Floral and Gilt
Design, 22/6-
Similar Designs, 24/6, 30/,
up.
A. SAUNDERS.
CAKE BASKET, Pure Silver-plated, Cherry De-
sign Handsomely Embossed, Satin Finish, »>OA
fruit
Frame,
A. SAUNDERS.
SALAD DISH, Silver-plated: Nickel Silver
Handsomely Decorated China Dish, 1.2/6
A. SAUNDERS.
("ALL BELL,
Pure Silver-
plated', Solidl
Silver Handle,
A. SAUNDERS.
ENGLISH OAK SALYER, 18in, Silver-plated Nickel
Silver Gallery, Handles, and Feet, 20/••
A. SAUNDERS.
AFTERNOON TEA SERVICE, Pure
plated, A 1 Quality, Richly Embossed
lined, with Covers, hdlal-
Silver-
, Gilt-
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTER KNIFE,
Pure Silver-plated,
Nicely Embossed,
3/-
JEWELLER,
LOCK
!k MAKER /
Ĥ
SYDNEYS LEADING JEWELLER.
807, ana BH.BIS.BHS-817. GEORGE ST. [Opposite Railway Station) SYDNEY. N.S.W.
SILVERSMITH
LT/Afc
OPTICIAN


b ».NU K .O. CtLLUSO
Wonderful
Collection
OF
SONGS
THE GREATEST FOLIO
EVER PUBLISHED.
PRICE, 2/6
Postage
sd. extra.
CONTENTS.
1. God be with You
2. Alice Where Art Thou
3. Ave Maria (Gounod)
4. Dreams (Strelezki)
5. What Might Have Been
G. Come Back to Erin
7. Kathleen Mavourneen
8. British Lion
9. In the Cathedral
10. Village Blacksmith
11. Englishman
12. Old Folks at Home
13. Asleep in the Deep
14. Believe me if all those endearing
15. Consider the Lilies.
16. Silver Threads Among the Gold
17. Rolling Home to Bonnie Scotland
18. Red, White and Blue
19. Bring Back my Bonnie
20. Annie Laurie
21. Just Before the Battle
22. Son of My Soul
23. When Thy Blue Eyes
24. Only Tired
25. Coming Thro’ the Rye
26. Dear, when I look
27. Absence Makes the Heart Grow Fonder
28. Too Late, Too Late
29. Steal Away to Jesus
30. There’s a Meeting Here To-night
31. In the Shadow of the Pines
32. Dermot Asthore
33. Auld House
34. Dear Little Shamrock
35. Sylvie
36. Maid of Athens
37. Bridge
38. In Cellar Cool
39. Every Ship will find a Harbour
40. Auld Lang Syne
41. Should Auld Acquaintance
42. Bonnie Banks of Loch Lomond
43. Killarney
44. Life on the Ocean Wave
45. Resignation
46. Her Bright Smile
47. 0, that we two were Maying
48. Come into the Garden, Maud
49. Home they Brought
50. Bill Brandon
51. Lowland Sea
52. Volunteer Organist
53. Christian Martyr
54. Reaper and the Flowers
55. Home, Dearie, Home
56. When all was Young
57. Stirrup Cup
58. Strangers Yet
59. Nazareth
60. David Singing before Saul
61. We’d Better Bide a Wee
62. If Doughty Deeds
MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE, BENDIGO, GEELONG.
ALLAN'S
PIANO FOLIO
N? I.
ALLAN ft 0?, >
The Greatest
Piano Folio
Ever Published
Containing
50 Pieces for
2/6
Postage
sd. extra.
CONTENTS.
1. Sirens’ Song
2. March des Troubadours
3. Mignon Gavotte
4. Sparkling Cascades
5. Warblings at Eve
6. Longing
7. Voice from the Hillside
8. March aux Flambeaux
9. Fragment
10. Echo of Lucerne
11. Silver Trumpets
12. Heimiveh (Howie)
Lindahl
Roubier
Thomas
Williams
Richards
Lange
Rockstro
Clark
Mendelssohn
Richards
Viviani
Jungmann
13. Donawwellen Waltz Ivanovici
14. Woodland Whispers Stanley
15. Mountain Belle Scliottische Kinkel
1(5. Blumenlied Lange
17. Nearer, my God to Thee Ryder
18. Whisperings of Love Kinkel
19. Traumerei Schumann
20. Waldmere March Losey
21. Sultan’s Grand March Blake
22. Maiden’s Prayer Badarzewska
23. Dance of the Brownies Kamman
24. Merry Peasant Schumann
25. The Mill Jensen
26. West End Polka
27. Witches Flight
28. Heather Bells
29. Idyll
30. Rustling Woods
31. Constellation March
32. Sweet Bye and Bye
33. Chick Waltz
34. Sarabande
35. Fairy Queen
36. Humoresque
37. Weigenlied
38. Starlight Waltz
39. Melancholie
40. Thespian Waltz
41. Lass of Richmond Hill
42. McGregor’s March
43. My Love She’s but a Lassie
44. Nora Creina
45. Black Hawk Waltz Walsh
46. Fairy Dance
47. Gillie Callum
48. I’ll gang nae mair
49. Keel Row
50. Shells of the Ocean
D’Albert
Russell
Rockstro
Braungardt
Clarke
Stier
Mack
Handel
S. Smith
Grieg
Schumann
Brange
Prume
Sheehan
Grobe
MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE, BENDIGO, GEELONG.
NEW EDISON
Records for October
THE delight with which you heard the first Record on the Edison
Phonograph returns with every new Edison Record you buy.
Every month new Records are added to those which are available
for your enjoyment. Those for October are to be available at all
Edison dealers on the 21st of September. They are especially good,
particularly the Grand Opera items. Go to the nearest Edison store
and hear them. We can give you the address if you do not know it,
and will also send lists of Machines and Records free on request.
AMBEROL RECORDS FOR OCTOBER
(FOUR-MINUTE)
641 — As It Began to Dawn
Edison Mixed Quartette
642 I’m Falling in Love with Some One —
“Naughty Marietta”
Derrick von Norden
643 Somewhere
Irvine Gillette and Chorus
644 Genius Loci
Kaltenborn String Quartette
64
/ Thy Beaming Eyes
Mighty Lak’ a Rose (
Elizabeth Spencer
647—Levy—Athan Polka (Xylonhone solo)
Charles Daab
649 —Swing Me High, Swing Me Low —
“Follies of 1910”
Elizabeth Spencer and Frank Ormsby
651 —Peek-a-800 !.. . Will Oakland & Chorus
654 Little Annie Rooney
Arthur C. Clough & Chorus
655 Come Josephine in My Flying Machine
Jones, Murrav & Chorus
656 Elfentanz Valse (Concert Waltz)
Sousa’s Band
657 Revival Meeting at Pumpkin Centre
Stewart
658 — When the Corn is Waving
Knickerbocker Quartette
659 Pilgrims’ Chorus—“Tannhauser”
Edison Concert Band
660 — Grand Baby, or a Baby Grand?
Ada Jones
661 — Does the Girl You Left Behind
Romain
662 — Day Dreams—“ The Spring Maid”
Narelle and von Norden
663 — The Two Poets. .. .Golden and Hughes
664 Girimeo Polka (Clarinet duet)
United States Marine Band
12279- —Thy Voice is Near March
National Military Band
12280 —Drake Goes West David Brazell
12282—Fa1l in and Follow Me. .Stanley Kirkby
12284—Les Papillons Polka (Concertina solo)
Prince
12286 —Nirvana Samuel Hempsall
12288 —The Picnic Harry Lauder
GRAND OPERA AMBEROL.
30039—Aida —0 cieli azzurri (Sung in Italian)
Marie Rappold (Soprano)
30040—M’appari (Sung in Italian)
Aristodemo Giorgini (Tenor)
35018 —Traviata—Sempre libera (Sung in
Italian) . . Maria Galvany (Soprano)
40040—Manon—Ah ! fuyez, douce image (Sung
in French) Karl Jorn (Tenor)
40041—Faust—Gegruesst sei mir (Sung in
German) Leo Slezak (Tenor)
STANDARD RECORDS FOR OCTOBER
(TWO-MINUTE)
10486 —Old Berlin March
United States Marine Band
10487—Sweet Bed Roses Agnes Noll
14043—They All Love Jack March
National Military Band
14046—D0 What You Can for Ninepence!
Arthur Osmond
14047 —Ready Every Time .. Peter Dawson
NATIONAL PHONOGRAPH CO. OF AUSTRALIA,
(Wholesale only), Dept. B, 364-372 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
LTD
mum
m
m
-
*
■a
MODEL 1906
.22 Caliber Repeater 1
This is the repeater you want, boys. It
holds fifteen .22 Short, twelve .22 Long
or eleven .22 Long Rifle cartridges, and
you can shoot them all in the same rifle.
This makes it an all-around rifle, good either
for target shooting or for small game, such
as rabbits, birds, etc. It takes down and
is extra light in weight. Although it
does not cost much, it is made to shoot
straight and last a long time, like all
Winchester rifles, and you will be
thoroughly pleased with it. The
Model 1906 repeater is used by
thousands of boys in America and is
known as the “Boy’s Winchester.”
Shoot a celebrated Winchester.
FOR SALE BY ALL DEALERS


Bronchitis
stopped" bp
SCOTT’S
Emulsion
when nothing else touched
the trouble. Mrs. L. Seger-
strom, 59 Murray Street,
Pyrmont, Sydney, N.S.W.,
writes (3rd June, 1910) that
her daughter Iris, aged 3
months:
“Was very ill with bronchitis, and nothir*
Ħ
did her any good until I gave
her Scott’s Emulsion.
The first few doses of
Scott’s Emulsion relieved
her greatly, and in a short
time she was quite cured.
She has improved in every
way, thanks to “Scott’s”
and is gaining in weight
and strength every day. ”
Scott’s Emulsion is the
best-proved preparation of
its class for bronchitis, and
it is the only emulsion
which has a world-wide re-
putation in cases of bron-
chitis. No other emulsion
has ever received the cordial
approval of the medical and
nursing professions the
world over.
The CERTAINTY which
you get with Scott’s should
be worth many times the
price of Scott’s Emul-
sion. Therefore, don't ask
for “ emulsion ” —ask for
SCOTT’S EMULSION.
Of all Chemists and Dealers in Medicines,
A FREE TRIAL SUPPLY
OF
ANTINEURASTHIN,
THE only known effective remedy for nervous
breakdown or exhaustion, will be sent to any
address in Australia or New Zealand on receipt
of 2d. in stamps to cover postage.
In nervous breakdown the brain and nerve cells
must be FED, and not stimulated by medicines in
the form of tonics or sedatives, which give tempor-
ary relief, but cannot effect permanent improvement.
Antineurasthin is a
NERVE AND BRAIN FOOD.
It cures by feeding the brain and nerve cells with
their natural food element, Lecithin, in an active
organic state, and is the only known means of
effectively doing this. Its value is fully demon-
strated by its rapid and permanent effect upon the
nervous system and health generally; sound natural
sleep, improved digestion, power of application to
work, concentration of thought, and sound vigorous
mentality.
Send full address, with twopence in stamps to
cover postage, to the Wholesale Distributor for Aus-
tralia and New Zealand, H. A. Goddard, 3 Eden’s
Buildings, 108 George Street, Brisbane, or branches,
194 Vickery’s Chambers, 82 Pitt Street, Sydney; 9
to 15 Stock Exchange Buildings, Queen Street, Mel-
bourne ; 3 Ellershaw’s Buildings, Cliff Street, Fre-
mantle; 213 Watson’s Buildings, Auckland.*
Before
HARE’S
COMPOUND
will grow a LUXURIANT
MOUSTACHE, and cover
Bald Patches when all else
fails.
Price, 5/6 Post Free.
05
After
London Specialities Apency,
44 OASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
IF YOU CARRY A
WAN"
Fount
mm »
you are always ready t,o “jot
down.” The “SWAN”-has
no intricate or delicate parts
—consequently it never
gets out of order, and is
always ready to write
without adjusting or
coaxing. Good for
a lifetime.
H
Sold by
Stationers
and Jewellers.
Catalogue free
from
MABIE, TODD g CO.,
LONDON, or
JAS. A. BURKE
(Wholesale Only),
15 WALTHAM BUILDING,
24 Bond Strest, Sydney, N.S.W.
4 N Australian’s Two Hands—THE LONE
HAND and THE BULLETIN. You can’t
do without either, and theyboth cost the same.
“Aberdeen”
AS APPLIED TO
Tarpaulins
»■»*-«» I
“ABERDEEN,” as applied to Tar-
paulins, Water Bags, Tents, etc., is
merely a short wav of saying “ALL
THAT IS STRONGEST, MOST DE-
PENDABLE, RELIABLE AND
BEST.” “Aberdeen” always means
exactly this. If you want all the
above, then you want “ABERDEEN” !
There’s solid Value in “ABERDEEN ”
goods, and if unobtainable locally, send
for Price List.
Smith, Copeland & Co. Ltd
204=6 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
AGENTS—
VICTORIA: J. Bartram & Son,
King- Street, MELBOURNE.
S. AUSTRALIA: C. Whiting,
Currie Street, ADELAIDE.
QUEENSLAND : H. I. H. Ross,
Edward Street, BRISBANE.
TASMANIA : Seabrook & Neal,
Collins Street, HOBART.
Wbat i$ AEROCEN <SAS ?
It is Petrol Air Gas (non- explosive)
produced by a weight-driven machine.
The Ideal Light for Country Houses,
Stores, Hotels and Billiard Rooms.
The following are some of the users to whom
reference is permitted: —
New South Wales Railways Departments; New
South Wales Public Works Departments; Mr. L. A.
Dangar, Warialda ; Mr. D. Copland, Wagga ; Mr.
J. Loneragan, Mudgee; Victorian Railway Depart-
ments ; Victorian Home Affairs Departments; Sir
John Madden; Mr. H. Alan, Currie; Mr. H. W.
Grimwade; Mr. Gordon Chirnside; Mr. Ernest
Austin ; Major C. Campbell.
For further particulars and catalogues apply to:
Sole Agents for Australia:
PHILIPS & PIKE, Equitable Buildings, Sydney;
St. James’s Buildings, Melbourne.
Distributing Agents :
HANNAMS, Ltd., Sydney; CHAS. ATKINS & Co.,
Ltd., Adelaide; ALCOCK & Co., Pty., Ltd.,
Perth; E. RICH & Co., Ltd., Brisbane; W.
REID & Co., Ltd., Rockhampton; ALF SHAW,
LTD., Townsville.
¥Mwmm
i
a 1
Till
rm
irr r r
’Tis Easy to Make Money
with a Cinematograph.
Ĥ
For a man with a few pounds there s
NO easier or quicker way to make money
from the jump than to amuse the public with
a CINEMATOGRAPH.
You DON’T want experience, you can do
it YOURSELF, and start right away AT
ONCE.
LET DS HELP YOB.
We are Cinematograph experts, provide
the complete outfit for a moderate cost, and
start any beginner.
Our stock of up-to-date machines,
apparatus and accessories is the largest
and most varied in the State.
We have over HALF A MILLION
FEET OF FILMS for sale or hire-
splendid subjects, fresh and new.
OBR PRICES ARE BEDROCK ONES.
Let us send you our Free
Cinematograph Outfit
Catalogue.
TERDAN'S,
“ The Leading
Cinematograph Specialists.”
393 George Street
(Facing
Royal Hotel),
♦Sydney
m
m
i
m
mm
niTOogjf
231 Clarence Street. Sydney,
AND ALL STATES
BY SPECIAL APPOINTMENT
TO MIS EXCELLENCY
THEGMOMERALj
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Club Rum.
Dog Head Stout. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted, whether sent by post or handed
in; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps
(of any State) accompany.
Sabbaticus: Don’t care for Scriptural con-
troversy, and take little interest in Seventh Day Bap-
tists. The old commandment says, “the seventh day
is the Sabbath,” but nobody knows now which was
the original seventh day. It is just as likely
to be Wednesday or Monday, as any other.
What is the iise of barking up a dead
tree that was cut down 10,000 years ago.
A.H.W.: No space for reprint articles.
And since you point to Canada as a bright example,
and then curse Australia’s high Protection, though
its Protection isn’t more than about half as high as
Canada’s, that part of the article would be too
absurd to print, even if it hadn’t been first printed
somewhere else. . . .J. Navvy: “Squatter’s Daughter
is too ragged for introduction to our readers. .. .
Arthur H.: Your poem caused the office Interpreter
to resign his job. One stanza: —
One man who had been well used
To labor non-union cruised
On to a job inspector
Of a sewer director
Well the rock-choppers are men
And —unionists. He’d condemn
Them similar to navvies
In arbitrary sallies.
Theodolite: All accepted paragraphs are paid
for. Cut out and forward to Accountant, with date
of issue. Glad you “are not above accepting pay-
ment.” It’s a change from the general rule, home
folk feel insulted at the offer s °* ': * '
T.M. (Q.) : Crude work. ..Uckle: (1) 458,626 males,
409,069 females; (2) there is no hand-book dealing
exclusively with Australian flowers, but Amy Mack s
“A Bush" Calendar” (Angus and Robertson) covers
all the wild flowers of New South Wales.
Punjabe: The dull, brown ordinariness of your divorce
yarn stamps it as true. But the parties are total
strangers to Australia. Furthermore, there are stu-
pendous libel possibilities hanging round the eno.t. ..
P. : Write one of the big city book shops.... \ era
H: An admirable exposition of the gallery maiden s
viewpoint, but it is too diffuse for this receptacle
for compressed literary f00d....J. J. Walsh: George
Dean was sentenced, on October 25, 1895,,t0 14 years,
without the option, for perjury and making a false
declaration, the sentences being the maximum m each
case Dirk Swincott: (1) The article appeared
about a month ago. (2) Randolph Bedford s poems
have not been collected in one volume. His pub-
lished works are “The Snare of Strength, Billy
Pagan,” and “True Eyes and the Whirlwind. ....
EDM: Prices vary according to quality of draw-
ing,’ subject and artist. State any drawing you
desire, and we will quote you the price. .. . Confi-
dence: Dunno. Try a nerve specialist Cordex:
Q. alligator-yarn to hand. It is a fairly good yarn,
but couldn’t you allow 2J per cent, discount for cash
off the length of the saurian?... .A. F-B 1 (Q.) : We
don’t agree with you. It had some merit, but it
needed alteration, and got it. The verses enclosed
with your letter of protest could do with a heap of
“mauling” ; but the stipendiary lion blunted his
claws on the other, and got no thanks for it, so he
is refraining this time. No trace of other contribu-
tions mentioned. If they were accompanied by
stamps they would, if rejected, fly back like homing
pigeons, without mention in this column. .H.B. (V.) :
Doesn’t spring high enough. .. .F. 0.: Unsuitable
Morphia: Not much humor in the beerfly item....
General Warning and Major-General Caution: The
unsigned poem beginning “Oh, for the davs of our
merry youth!” has been shot Bellenvei One
MEMORIES OF CHILDHOOD.
The old Willow tree with its sheltering shade
’Neath the bending boughs when a child I played
Light was mv heart and my spirit free
When I romped in the shade of the willow tree
When the setting sun adorned the West
And the chattering birds retired to rest
My gentle mother with pious care
Would teach me to lisp my evening prayer
In a reverie of thoughts I bow my head
Fond memories live though the past is Dead.
Halley: Regret not suitable L.J.V. (V.):
Neither hits the mark W. J.C.: Sorry it fails
J.L.1.: Good attempt. Rather long and rough
Casquer W.: It fails by a short head 8.E.P.:
Neat, but it seems to be merely a variation of another
wheeze P.J.B. (V.): It is musical, but suffers
from technical defects A.C.8.: Disqualified
French (Q.) : This is no place for y0u.... Eleanor:
“Life” unsuitable. We prescribe a five-years’ reading
interval V.R. (Q.): Yes, yes! we are all brave
fellows, but some of our verse is terrible, and the
way we shuffle our poetic feet on parade maddens the
drill instructors. The bugle has sounded and “Aus-
tralia for Ever” has fallen in Arthur H.: Three
lines only interest us:
In the handy days of old
When ships were ships and men bold
Before romantic, alluvial gold.
Somehow you don’t moan convincingly over the Past.
We firmly believe that ships are still ships and that
Grandpa "was no bolder than the average bloke of to-
day. Grandpa’s bad habit of stroking his cataract
of 'whiskers, and lying massively about the good old
days when he brained bushrangers with dead kan-
garoos he had run down on foot, doesn’t take us in.
When he commences to brag in the twilight, we offer
ourselves a liberal discount of 98 per cent, off for
cash, and take a walk P.G.: (M.L.): Cheery
salted rhyme, but we had to post it missing....
M S.: (V.) : More of a bottle song. Almost empty...
L.V.W. (Q.): It is dreadfully jagged and abounds
in precipices R.J.E.: Very young and feeble.
“Booked” hangs on a good point; it resembles an
ill-fitting coat suspended on a bright nail A.C.E.
(V.): Not worth the space.. .H.V.P.: Very crude...
j.W. (Q.): A raw product which needs a tremen-
dous lot of refining Claymore (M.L.) : Neither of
these reaches us; but you may go on cutting at the
cashbox Armis: Have it your own way:—
The harvest was all over
And the farmers bright and gay
The cows were in good clover
And the horses at the hay
So ring the bells, girls and boys
Ring ! ring ! ring !
We’ll have a taste of life’s sweet joys
So sing ! sing ! sing !
The harvest was the very best
They had for many a year
So the farmers all could take a rest
And sing and dance and cheer.
So dance away boys and girls dance !
Dance ! dance ! dance !
Prices high, paid in advance
So dance! dance! dance!
That, presumably, describes the rejoicings of the
delighted wheat-growers round the weatherbeaten
wheatstack at Godforgotten (300 miles west of the
insanely-congested port of Sydney), when the news
comes through that no trucks are available to carry
the grain to the mad anthill on the vast stretch of
coast.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CONTRIBUTORS.
Gus Elix: A certain cold feeling of horror came
over us by reason of your sketch....B. Ford: None
of them struck the mark.... Leo M.: Rather crude,
and the subject is partially dead n0w.... Lance M.:
Belongs to the scratchy school of art.... Art: Diffi-
cult to distinguish which is the dude of the Block
and which the wild yokel from Outback......
D.R.: Very inferior picture of unduly fat policeman.
Tuck: A rather depressing work of art
W.E.L.: The leg of the piano is so well drawn that
we hated to reject the sketch. Yet we had t0....5.
Cohen: Is it a jest or a funeral?... .R.E.M.: Re-
jected with muffled curses... .S.S.: Pictures re the
Stead-Fisher interview are quite out of date....
W. McKay: The only objection is that it lacks all
the essentials or art... .G.C.L.: Fail to notice any
resemblance to Rembrandt in your style C.
Drvsdale: If you could study Art under a good
teacher, there might be some hope for you, assuming
that you are as young as we think you are, and are
quite untaught. .. .D. McN.: A gigantic thin man
making a thin remark to a tall, thin woman.


QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
With her limitless potentialities, still in the process of initial development, Queensland
oilers a field of unbounded scope to the investor, the scientist, the tourist, the prospective
settler and to the honest worker.
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
T. C. TROEDSON, Director.
Branch Office: 116 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W. A. MESTON, Local Director.
Conjuring Tricks, Puzzles, Surprise 8 Joke Novelties
LOOK AND LAUGH GLASS
Ħ
See the Passing: Show.
Your friends gro-
tesquely photo-
graphed—stoui people
look thin—thin people
look stout. Thej
Laughing Camera
furnishes all this and
more. By getting a
focus on passingpedes-
trians, horses, wag-
gons, trains, trams,
etc., the most gro-
tesque and ludicrous
pictures are wit-
nessad. All grow fat from laughter. It is well and j
strongly made, and cannot pet out of order. Price 1 /—, ‘
post free anywhere.
THE U.S.A. LIQUID PISTOL.
Will
stop the
111 o s t
vicious
H
dog or man without
permanent injury.
Invaluable for cy-
clists, unescorted
1 a d i e s, cashiers,
night -watchmen,
homes, etc. Hasmore
effect on beggars and
tramps than a watch-
dog. * Fires and recharges by pulling trigger. Over
20 shots in one loadiiur. Reloading unlimited. It
creates great amusement for young and old, it is
strongly made of polished nickel, and is one of the
most useful, durable, reliable and economical novel-
ties ever produced. Used with water or ammonia.
Price, post free anywhere, 3/-
H.L. Hutchinson L~
New York Novelty Company.
710 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
m
.
s*
r S*
■
PUZZLE PURSE.
The Latest and Best Puzzle Purse on the market,
Even our most industrious puzzle enthusiasts baffled.
Three entirely different moves before purse can be
opened. It is made of superior leather, with inside
pocket, and strong polished nickel frame. Illustrated
directions enclosed. Price, post free anywhere, 2/-.
L>o not miss this chance of obtaining one of the best
and most useful puzzles ever produced.
PUZZLE POCKET KNIVES.
Ĥ
A Puzzle Pocket
Knife is one of
the most useful
novelties obtain-
able. Best qual-
ity steel blade,
buff horn hand-
les, spring back.
Puzzle to shut as well as to open. Makes a splendid
knife for general us % also a superior rabbiter’s knife.
Price, with full directions, 2/-; post free any-
where, or same quality in larger size, 3/2 post free.
Postal Address-
Branches
•BOX 3, HAYM ARXET POST OFFICE, SYDNEY. Write for Price Lists, free upon application-
-111 KING STREET; 25 and 27 OXFORD STREET, SYDNEY.
I ADIES desirous of having their hair dressed in the latest styles should
call on the .• .
VICE-REGAL
Ħ
HAIRDRESSERS,
The Misses Isaacs, KI sydney. *
Tails, Fringes, Transformations, Puffs, and all Accessories for the prevailing
'Phone 2138 Central. Fashions always in stock. Write for Catalogue.
H
Smokers!
ORDER
BY
MAIL.
“ POT POURRI ” Cigarettes.— The highest grade obtainable, at 6d. per packet of io ;
4/6 per ioo.
“ POT POURRI ” Cigars. —A fragrant smoke — 3d. each ; 5 for l/» ; 18/6 per 100.
“POT POURRI” Tobacco. — 4OZ. tins, 2/- ; Boz. tins, 4/« ; 8/“ per lb. There is none
better than this—it is the BEST.
“POT POURRI” Pipes, Silver-mounted, superior quality, all shapes, 2/6 each.
“POT POURRI” always the same, always enjoyable.
Clients in country or other States ORDER NOW, and it will be
posted FREE by return, with Catalogue which will interest you.
A. A. MARKS, Sole Agent, 376 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
ENO S ‘FRUIT SALT’
A HOUSEHOLD REMEDY FOR
All Functional Derangements of the Liver, Tempo-
rary Congestion arising from Alcoholic Beverages,
Errors in Diet (Eating or Drinking), Biliousness,
Sick Headache, G-iddiness, Vomiting, Heartburn,
Sourness of the Stomach, or Constipation. It is
a Refreshing and Invigorating Beverage, most
Invaluable to Travellers, Emigrants, Sailors, and
Residents in Tropical Climates.
Eno’S ‘FRUIT salt’ assists the Functions of the Liver, Bowels, Skin, and Kidneys
by Natural Means. There is no doubt that, where it has been taken in the earliest
stages of a disease, it has, in innumerable instances, preventer a serious illness.
CAUTION.- Examine the Capsule and see that it is marked ENO'S ' FRUIT SALT,'
otherwise you have the sincerest form of flattery -IMITATION.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO. Ltd., ‘FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, liondon,
S.E., Eng., by J. C. ENO’S Patent.
Sold by Chemists and Stores everywhere.
FOR THE SKIN.
\y e are in for a HOT SUMMER—this means that Ladies will find it increasingly difficult to
preserve that beautifully velvet skin which is one of their chief charms. The difficulty disap-
pears “like snow before the sun” if ladies will only prepare their skin by consistently using
ICILMA FLUOR CREAM,
-the world-famed face cream without grease, which brings the beauty that lasts. A little
jrubbed on the skin daily, especially before going out, prevents the ravages of the Australian
Climate, leaves no trace on the skin, and never grows hair.
21=
per pot, or
Sample tube
3d. stamps.
ALL CHEMISTS, or
ICILMA DEPOT,
(DEPT. D),
139 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
BILLIE D.DS
m
Ox
■
%
s
m
m
SBfa
a
a
;
tstiii
—;—
,:•: U
Another Australian Record
on the “Alcock” Table.
TO the remarkable series of record breaks by Gray, Roberts, Williams and
Lindrum, already performed on the “Alcock ” Table, is added another record
by Lindrum. His latest achievement was in the Melbourne match with
Reece, when he secured the phenomenal break of 1239—1230 coming off the red,
establishing two Australian records. All these champions have expressed their
high opinion of Alcock Tables, for huge breaks are only possible where the table
is “ true to angle,” with cushions, jaws and every other part absolutely perfect.
Both Gray and Lindrum owe their present reputations largely to the
“Alcock” Table. It is on these tables they practised and made many of their
largest breaks. We will gladly post you our illustrated Billiard Catalogue.
ALCOCK <a CO. PTY. LTD.,
155 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
7 King William St., Adelaide.
Murray St., Perth.
397 George St., Sydney.
114 Edward St., Brisbane.
Lower Cuba Street, Wellington.
Ĥ
3 Sets Bell-Metal Reeds.
LEATHER BOUND-BELLOWS.
Price 21/- p° stfree - Other
Complete with instruction book.
Music, as you like it>,
becomes doubly beautiful when played
on the
Melba
The Accordeon
with
The Silver Tone
The Best Accordeon. Sounds the Best.
Haunting melodies are never so sweet as when
they are played on this instrument. The
Church Organ-Like Tone is Just Perfect!
MELBA now charms many a home —one
would charm Yours — Why not NOW ?
The Test Tells The Tale.
Models—7/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/6, 27/6, 37/6.
Complete colored illustrated Catalogue Free.
SOLE AGENTS
ALLAN & CO Prop - Ltd., 276-8 Collins St., Melbourne. Bendigo and Geelong
COUGHS
Colds, Asthma, Bronchitis and
Lung troubles quickly cured by
POWELbS
BALSAM
OF
ANISEED
0/ All Stores
and Chemists,
, s jMSAM_OF4*r.
**ADE MAR^*
Wholesale Agents for Victorias DUERDEN & SAINSBURY, Melbourne.
FREE
Colored and Artistic
Post Cards.
NO MONEY WANTED
Send us your name and address and we will forward you 12 packets, each
containing (5 of our colored and high art Post Cards to sell for us at (id.
per packet. When you have sold the cards, return us our Os., and we will
send you for your trouble any present you may choose from the list of
jeweliery which we forward. By continuing the sale of our cards you
can earn a Ladies’ or Gent.’B Silver Watch and Chain.
Remember, we want to do business with you again, and to do this
we must give you full satisfaction. We take all the risk. You
can return the cards if not sold. We have no connection with
Ħ
F
R
E
E
any other Firm. we are the largest dealers in post cards in Australia, and import our
jewellery, or we could not make you this liberal offer. Be the first in your district, our post
cards sell at once, wherever seen.
REGAL POST CARD CO.
126
J., SYDNEY.


Says: f I Have Great Faith in the Cuti-
cura Remedies Now that I am Con-
vinced of their Wonderful Merits.’
“I wish to let you know of a couple of
recent cures which 1 have made by the use
of the Cuticura Remedies. Last August, Mr.
of this city came to my office, troubled
with a severe skin eruption. At first I could
not understand the nature of the case until I
had made a careful examination. I finally
traced it to his occupation, as he was a
painter and decorator. It was dermatitis in
its worst form. It started with a slight erup-
tion and would affect most parts of his body—
thighs, elbows, chest, back and abdomen
and would terminate In little pustules. The
itching and burning was dreadful and he
would almost tear his skin apart, trying to
get relief. I recommended all the various
treatments 1 could think of and he spent
about fifteen dollars on prescriptions but
nothing seemed to help him.
“In the meantime my wife who w r as con-
tinually suffering with a slight skin trouble
and who had been trying different prescrip-
tions and methods with my assistance, told
me she was going to get some of the Cuticura
Remedies and give them a fair trial. But as
I did not know much about Cuticura at that
time I was doubtful whether it would help
her. Her skin would thicken, break and
bleed, especially on the fingers, wrists and
arms. I could do nothing to relieve her
permanently. When she first applied the
warm baths of Cuticura Soap and applications
of Cuticura Ointment she saw a decided im-
provement and in a few days she was com-
pletely cured.
“I lost no time In recommending the Cuti-
cura Remedies to Mr. , and this was
two months ago. I told him to wash with
warm baths of the Cuticura Soap and to
apply the Cuticura Ointment generously.
Believe me, from the very first day’s use of the
Cuticura Remedies he was greatly relieved
and to-day he is completely cured through
their use. I have great faith in the Cuticura
Remedies and shall always have a good word
for them now that I am convinced of their
wonderful merits.” (Signed) B. L. White-
head M.D., 108 Dartmouth St., Boston,
U. S. A., July 22, 1910.
Send to R.Towni &Co., Sydney. N.S.W.. forsam-
ple of Cuticura Ointment and book on skin troubles.
An Interesting 1
Experiment.
If you would like to see the alteration Grey
Hairs make, just lay a piece of paper over each of
the two halves of the above portrait. The Grey
“ half” will then be seen to have the appearance
of 45 years of age, whereas the other half looks
only 30. Dr. B. Allen’s (U.S.A.) Mexican Walnut
Stain will make all those years of difference if you
are grey or prematurely grey. It is perfectly'
harmless, easy to apply, and will quickly restore
the hair to the natural shade of youth, or younger
years.
Dr. B. Allen’s (u.s.a.)
Mexican
Walnut Stain
is offered as a Superior Stain. It contains no lead,
mercury, silver, sulphur, etc., and is equally suit-
able for Ladies’ Hair, or Hair of the Beard or
Moustache. None genuine without the signature
of —Alfred Ardley (Registered in the Patents
Office of the Commonwealth).
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
CANT
B
BEAT
RIAR
PIPES
*LL SHAPES
\f EACH POST FREE 1/2
Quality Not Better
in a
' Guinea Pipe
MICK SIMMONS
Sydney.
STOREKEEPERS 4 TOBACCONISTS
SHOIfLO SEND TOR OUR TRADE UST
I
?^4£ATH^
&
So
C°
' r 4aum^°
WHOLESALE:
R. Reid & Co., Ltd.
Sargood Bros.
Alcock Bros., Ltd.
Petersen, Boesen
& Co., Ltd.
Etc.
RETAIL:
Everywhere, at 6d.
per tin—Black, Tan,
and Ox-blood.
Established 1732.
When you need a Pill, take
Brandreth’s
Pill
a
PURELY VEGETABLE
ALWAYS EFFECTIVE.
Brandreth’s Pills purify the blood,
invigorate the digestion and cleanse the
stomach and bowels. They stimulate the
liver and carry off vitiated bile and other
depraved secretions. They are a tonic
medicine that regulate, purify, and fortify the whole system.
Fop Constipation, Dizziness, Drowsiness, Coated Tongue, Bad
Breath, Headache, Pain in Stomach, Indigestion, Dyspepsia,
Diver Complaint, Bilious Headache, Jaundice, or any disorder
arising from impure state of the blood. ' ~
Sold by Chemists everywhere.
ALLCOCK MANUFACTURING CO., Birkenhead, England.
Draw the picture up
close before your eyes
and watch the pill
go into the mouth.
Established 1*47.
AllccckS Porous Plaster
A Universal Remedy for Pain.
Wherever there’s pain apply an Allcock’s Plaster.
H
Ĥ
Ħ
To the woman
who wants something “ different ” for breakfast to-morrow
morning—try “Skipper” Sardines on toast. Dainty in
appearance, delicious to taste, and so very, very different
from the old sorts, “Skippers” cannot fail to please.
Skipper Sardines
c ole Proprietors : ANGUS WATSON & Co., Newcastle-on-Tyne, England.
‘Keep smiling—there’s always Skipper Sardines ”
INFLUENZA
TRADE
MARK
H
Never neglect theshivery,sneezy, headachy symptoms
of Influenza, take Freeman’s—the Original—Chlorodyne. 1
Invaluable also for Colds, Bronchitis, Asthma, Consumptive
Cough, Diarrhoea, Rheumatism, Ague, and all Nerve Pain.
Recommended, by Doctors for over sixty-five years. Price Jl/l|, 2/9 & 4/6 per bottle
Freeman’s Chlorodyne does not cause Headache.
If your Chemist is
out of stock,order
a bottle, he can
quickly get it.
NEVER accept
imitations.
FREEMAN’S
CHLORODYNE
9
PILLS
BRIGHTEN EXISTENCE.
It is not difficult to know when a mild aperient
is required. One feels dull and depressed; there is
acid in the stomach, oppression at the chest, numb
pain in the back, possibly a sharp attack of indigestion
or biliousness and headache.
Cockle’s Pills quickly dispel all such distressing symptoms of disorder,
cleansing the system thoroughly, restoring tone and stability to the whole
digestive apparatus, purifying the blood, and generally renewing normal
physical conditions as well as mental brightness. In a word, Cockle’s Pills
brighten existence by keeping the body fit and well. The purer skin
and clearer complexion are the sure signs of it.
Of all Chemists, l/l£ and 2/9 per box.
ON THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound ; containing upwards of Three hundred
of “ Hop’s 1 ’ best drawings. Full Bulletin size-
Price, 21s.
4
V
FOOD
is for Infants and Invalids
and for those whose digestive
powers have become weakened by
illness or advancing age.
If the digestive functions, however weak, can do
any work at all they should be given work to do to the
extent of their powers. In the easy process of its prepara-
tion the digestibility of Benger’s can be regulated to give
this work with extreme nicety.
The “British Medical Journal” says—“Benger’s Food
has, by ils excellence established a reputation of its own.”
BENGER S FOOD. LTD., Otter Works, Manchester, England.
Benger’s Food is sold in tins by Druggists, etc., everywhere
*23
Business, Robbery, etc.
A point of considerable importance to a
broker’s clients arose during the bankruptcy post-
mortem on one of the fraternity at Auckland (M.L.)
the other day. The official assignee reported that the
Stock Exchange committee had sold the broker’s
seat, and applied the proceeds to payment of amounts
owing by bankrupt to members of the Exchange,
thus placing them in the position of preferential
creditors. _ The official assignee questioned whether
the committee had this power, and promised to worry
the matter out to a conclusion. Incidentally, some
interesting facts were fished out as to the absent-
mindedness: of brokers. In one case, the broker had
gone on for over a year, until the smash came, pay-
ing the elient amounts equivalent to dividends,
though he had never bought the shares ordered. The
downrightness of the recent slump in Waihis was
partly explained by the admission that there had
been a general bearing movement and heavy over-
selling in all M.L. mining stocks.
*** ' *
“Sub,” from the Wilds of Queensland: I found this
in a recent morning mail: —
V.R.C. DERBY & MELBOURNE CUP.
8773. F-lemington,- Aug, 7, 1011.
I have booked you Five hundred pounds to five
the Double, Jacamar and Jacamar, V.R.C. Derby and
Melb. Cup.
£505. OMRI BLANK.
Omri is a total stranger to me. It is possible that
he is good for £soo ; contrariwise, he may be stony-
broke. So he will not get my fiver. On the other
hand, he will probably get lots of other people’s
fivers. It opens up alluring possibilities in the
“easy money” line, and I am considering the proposi-
tion of cabling Rockefeller that I have him on a
million to £50,000 sterling Blind Staggers for the
Grass Fedders Race at our coming picnic meeting.
* * * *
In Melbourne District Court the other day a tale
was told for the special benefit of Williamjames, who
will shortly be down in great numbers for the Show.
The yarn was mostly about a white sapphire stud
that a man had bought at an auction room for £B.
When he found that the sapphire was the best cut-
glass, he promptly pawned it for £lO. Presently
the victimised Hebrew woke up and sued him, and
got a verdict. A stud of gleaming glass big enough
to tempt £lO from a pawnbroker named Cohen
might very well have seemed good enough for a
dealer to risk £8 on; hence the need for William-
james to walk even more warily than usual. But
what an artistic fraud it must be; and what a size ?
A chest-protector—a breastplate of unrighteousness!
* » * *
“U.S.”: The latest terror is the diaphone, an ex-
aggeration of the micrograph, and able to transmit
a whisper. A month or two ago there was a sus-
picion that members of the Ohio Legislature were
bribed. An informer reported that they collogued
with the bribers in a room at the Columbus Hotel.
Detectives inserted a diaphone there, communicating
with the next room, where a man was kept on the
watch, having the receiver fixed to his ears, while
another officer had a notebook ready. Thus they
bowled out one of the members discussing terms.
The surprise was as great as Crippen’s. Walls have
ears nowadays.
* » * *
When “Listen” Chapman and Alexander, the
American religiomaniacs (who threaten another visit
this way) were trying to revive the Seared Con-
science, they had a lot of mottoes and legends stuck
up round the walls, as usual. The most frequent
eye-shocker was:—
“WHAT MULL YOU DO WHEN YOU DIE?”
An advertising agent, who was at the first meeting,
got into the hall early next day, and pasted up
underneath the sign an ad. which ran:—
“USE SO-AND-SO’S OIL—GOOD FOR BURNS!”
* * * *
“Croson”: The “producer” learns more about Pri-
vate Enterprise and Honorable Understandings every
day. It has just been recalled to him that, some
two years ago, stock salesmen in Victoria came to
one of those understandings—just a plain one, with-
out frills —to deduct 6d._ per head from the proceeds
on all fat pigs sold. This was allegedlv to cover any
loss buyers might sustain on pigs condemned after
slaughter. It doesn’t seem to have struck Private
Enterprise that, as the “fund” was for the buyers’
benefit, the 6d. should have been charged to them ;
but, anyhow, nobody seems to know anything about
the fund, and the producer begins to suspect that
Mrs. Harris is the only treasurer it ever had. The
sixpences have certainly gone some where, because the
producers haven’t got them. All they know is that
when their pig is supposed to fetch £1 they only
get 19s. 6d., less selling charges—and it’s up to
somebody to explain where the sixpence is.
DOWNSTAIRS: A 20S.-A-WEEK IDYLL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When I come downstairs
The other boarders mostly have departed for the lairs
Where they work as humble clerklings for their 45 a
week
(It’s shillings and not sovereigns of which these
figures speak) ;
But they’ve left their refuse scattered
In an unattractive way,
On the table worn and battered
Where the bloated blowflies play
(Hot, cold, or wet, or dry
Our blowflies never die),
And grease is on the chairs,
And crumbs, and bits of bacon, and butter mixed
with hairs,
When I come downstairs 1
When I come downstairs,
’Tis past the time for breakfast, and the Missus
stands and glares,
While she calls a slab of jarrah by the playful name
of steak,
And waits to charge me extra if the knife and fork
should break;
The atmosphere is freighted
With a dozen meals at least,
And appetite is sated
Before I start the feast:
I take that steak and smite it,
And even try to bite it,
While the blowflies come in pairs—
The slothful winter blowflies, droning softly, “We'll
go shares,”
When I come downstairs!
When I come downstairs,
A mop-head girl is grinning with the silliest of airs.
Compelling recollection of advances made last nighi
(So foolish may a boarder be when home he eometh
tight),
And the Missus frowns in sorrow
At the giggling of her daughter,
And would “want my room” to-morrow
If I didn’t owe a quarter ;
But to see a boarder going
' When thirteen weeks are owing,
Perplexes her and scares;
So I live on liabilities; like men of big affairs,
When I come downstairs 1
When I come downstairs
This evening, pray I may not meet the Missus un-
awares !
For I weary of the jarrah, and my soul desires to
meet
Some other breed of blowfly in some other cheap
retreat,
Where I haven’t spooned the daughter,
And been sentenced to her grinning,
Where I do not owe a quarter,
But the debt is just beginning ;
Yea, I mean to do a flit,
If my pluck can compass it;
He gains Success who dares !
With boots and bag held firmly I shall fly from all
my cares
When I come downstairs!
VICTORIA.
B.


THREE WITCHES
CIGARETTES.
M
ess?
■yfMi
MORRIS’S I
hree Witches
CIGARETTES
-titli/fl
6° for 10 -;
londm (Kao*-
HIGHEST GRADE.
6s per 100, Post Free.
MICK SIMMONS, SYDNEY.
Storekeepers and Tobacconists should
send lor our Trade Lists.
Pr. LE6ER ERSOK,
formerly Hon. Physician Auckland and Broken Hill
General Hospitals.
Also to Royal Victorian Institute for the Blind.
157 Collins St. (Zerco’s
Telephone, City 2375.
Chambers),
Melbourne.
Specialty 006.
Consultation by letter, £1 Is.
RHEUMATISM
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY.
GOUT. RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA, LUMBAGO,
NEURALGIA.
Blair’s
GOUT AND
RHEUMATIC
They Never FalT.
They Always Cure.
Pills
The only true and safe remedy for Gout and
Rheumatism that has stood the test of time
All Chemists and Stores at i/i J & 2/9 per box
Proprietors. PROUT & Co., 229. Strand,
London, England
Ĥ
Tyres
in the Making.
No. 5. Readers will have gathered from the previous four adver-
tisements that the tyre manufacturer must exercise great care in selecting
only the best materials for mixing the rubber.
That every manufacturer does not do so can be seen from fig. i, which
shows a poor mixture containing six different ingredients :
1. African rubber.
2. Flower of sulphur.
3. Artificial rubber.
4. Washed chalk.
5. Zinc oxide.
6. Pieces of old waste
rubber.
Fic. x.
I
It is easy to see that the result of such a mixture is hardly worthy
of the name of rubber, for rubber itself only comprises 20°/ o of the whole—
the remainder being divided, in different proportions, between the other
redients.
ter
41
Fig. a.
Now look at fig. 2. This is the
rich mixture used in the manufacture-*
of Michelin Tyres. It consists of
pure Para rubber, with just sufficient
sulphur added to allow of proper vul-
canization. This is why Michelin
Tyres are so famous — they contain
plenty of good rubber; no foreign
substances are introduced as “make-
weights.” The preparation derived
from the former mixture would last
possibly one or two months; that from
the latter, one, or even two years.
17
STOCKED BY AIL THE LEADING GARAGES.
305 GOOD SHAVES a YEAR
H
THE PLUM RAZOR, 10/6 Post Free.
SAFETY RAZORS from 5/6.
THE “PLUM” will give you 365 good, clean,
comfortable shaves a year. This is the razor that
we, as practical hairdressers, can guarantee to
give you a perfect, clean, and comfortable shave
every day in the year. THE PLUM, price 10/6,
post free anywhere. With the keen shaving edge
that requires little stropping, and is ALWAYS satis-
factory. We will keep the PLUM in good order for
two years free of charge.
The O. &A. Mous-
tache Trainer
shapes the Mous-
tache. Worn at
night; 2/6, 3/6,
5/6 each post free.
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-
PLUM RAZOR, in Case, 10/6, Black
Handle.
Pair in Case, 21/-, Black Handles.
The Plum Razor Strop, 10/6 and 7/6.
Other good kinds from 3/6 each.
Stick good Shaving Soap, 1/-
The Plum Strop Dressing, 1/- Tube.
Gentlemen who shave themselves
should not be without it.
All the above Post Free.
Send fofr our free
illustrated price list
We Grind and Set
Razors, 1/- each.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George St., Sydney.
Established
30 Years.
DAINTY NEW
DESIGNS
we are famous for. Every week we produce the last word
in the designs approved and adopted by society in Englandi
Making them in such large quantities enables us to pro-
duce them at low prices.
We carry a very large stock of all of the unset jewels.
We cut in Sydney the Australian gems.
We make up the jewellery on the premises.
Our prices do not exceed London prices.
Choice Diamonds and
Pale Pink Corals, £7/7/-.
Diamonds and Whole
Pearls, £ 10/10/-
Diamonds and
Peridots,
£l2/12/-
Plain Figures'
Cash.
FAIRFAX 8 ROBERTS,
23 & 25 Hunter Street,
■
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney.
Ħ
The World’s Standard
Valveless Engine.
TO THE FARMER,
the FERRO ENGINE has
proven itself an inestimable
boon by relieving him of the hard work about the
farm, such as pumping water, chaff and ensilage
cutting, bagging and hoisting, corn grinding, husk-
ing and shelling, sawing wood, separating cream,
driving winnowers or any machine for which
moderate power is required. Also on account of the
increased profit made by their use, which in many
cases has more than paid for the entire outfit before
the f rst season is over.
Drop a postcard to the nearest agent, giving parj-
tlculars of machine or plant for which you require
power, and he will advise you of the most suitable
engine for the purpose. YOU WILL .REMEMBER
THEIR HONEST SERVICE LONG AFTER YOU
HAVE FORGOTTEN THE SMALL COST.
Made in the following sizes suitable for
Stationary, Portable or Marine use:
3, 4,5#. V/ 2 , 8,11,12,15,17, 25
B.H.P.
FERRO ACENTS:
Hall Bros., Druitt St., SYDNEY.
Acme Motor & Eng 1 . Co., Lonsdale St., MELBOURNE.
Howard Motor & Cycle Co., Queen St., BRISBANE.
F. J. Langley, Torrens St. E., ADELAIDE.
H
Perth Motor House, Hay St, PERTH.
Wearne & Ceard, LAUNCESTON.
Hayward & Garrett, Stuart St., DUNEDIN.
H. T. Whitson & Co., Customs St W., AUCKLAND
H. T. Moore, APIA, SAMOA.
THE LONE HAND
A Monthly Guide for everything
Australian.
6cS
From “W.P.H.”
The probable destination of the just-abolished
mace will be the library of the Australian Parlia-
ment, where future generations will gaze on it and
marvel concerning the damphoolishness of their for-
ifif' o^ e Speaker’s robes and wig, and the ditto
u . ? Senate’s President have been also passed on to
the dust-heap. In fact, about the only surviving
r f-i C Sood old days is the little pucker of
stiff ribbons which the Sergeant-at-Arms wears be-
tween his shoulders. This decoration is said to
nave eTOlved from a sort of open pocket, into which,
in the dark ages of Parliamentary usage, bribes
were wont to be dropped. Those were the days
when the practice of corruption was an open, matter-
of-fact custom. If this last link with the past is
severed, Bruce Smith will probably Burst. But no
one will worry; he is really as flagrant an ana-
chronism as the mace, himself.


Shipping.
P. and 0. BRANCH SERVICE
For DURBAN, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
* Twin-screw.
SALOON ACCOMMODATION, AMIDSHIPS,
CONVERTED INTO VERY SUPERIOR
ONE CLASS.
LONDON .. .. £l6, £lB <V £ 20.
CAPETOWN & NATAL, £l3 135., £l5 15s. & £l7 17a.
CILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD., 7 Bent St.
Melbourne Agents: JOHN SANDERSON k CO.,
11l William Street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents: GEO. WILLS & CO.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN D.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy. New and luxur-
ous 12,000-ton Steamers. Cabines-de-luxe; State-
rooms, with bedsteads; Single Berth Rooms, Private
Bathrooms, Electric Lifts and Laundries
Sailing every fortnight from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Place, Sydney.
Banking:, Public Companies, &c.
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF
NEW SOOTH WALES.
HEAD OFFICE: MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
FARMERS AND SETTLERS’
LOANS TO £2OOO
for 31 years. Repayable by half-yearly instalments.
J. H. DAVIES', Secretary.
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF
NEW SOOTH WALES.
HEAD OFFICE: MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
MORTGAGE LOANS FROM 4
TO 5 PER CENT.
up to £25,000, with special repayment privileges.
J. H. DAVIES, Secretary.
flank of florth Queensland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of (ieorge and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P„ CANNY.
Local Director:
ADAM FORSYTH,‘Esq. (Burns, Philp k Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 4 QUEEN VICTORIA STREET, EC.
Manager: R. R. LOVE.
Bankers: THE LONDON COUNTY & WESTMINSTER
BANK, LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Bank q( flew J^alantf,
SYDNEY BRANCH:
BUILDING. (iHOR(ilp STREET;..
Total, Capital Paidrup .. .. £2s000>00&
Cncalled; Capital, .£-500,000;
lieservi; Fund and Undividod Profits £1,024,405
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, iviji, Great liri -
tain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
THE
Australian Bank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL . . . . £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,198,344
PAID-UP (30th June, 1911) .. £1,180,812
HEAD OFFICE—George and King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE—2 King William Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS—Sir William P. Manning, Kt., Chair-
man ; George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D.; Chas. 11.
Myles, Esq.; Mark Sheldon, Esq.; Arthur S.
Barton, Esq; Frank N. Yarwood, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales & Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the .world.
A. P. STEWART, General Manager.
The ...
Queensland National Bank,
Limited
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 413,494 8 10
Reserve (in Gov. Stock) .. .. 94,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
Directors: JAS. MILNE, Esq., Chairman; JAMES
MUNRO, Esq. ; Hon. A. J. CALLAN, Esq., M.L.C. ;
JOHN CAMERON, Esq.; F. LORD, Esq.
General Manager —W. V. RALSTON.
Branches—London, Sydney & throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
Shipping:.
REDUCED FARES
To EUROPE
N ord D
eutscher
'loyd.
PASSENGERS booked to Egypt, Naples,
Genoa, Algiers, Marseilles, Gibraltar,
All steamers fitted with “Wireless” Installation.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
REGULAR FOUR-WEEKLY MAIL SERVICE
from Sydney and Brisbane, via New Guinea,
by Twin-screw Steamers.
For Passage and Full Particulars apply to —
LOHMANN & CO., General Agents,
7 & 9 Bridge Street, Sydney ;
OSTERMEYER, VAN ROMPAEY & Co., Melbourne;
H. MUECIvE & CO., Adelaide;
L. RATAZZI & CO., Perth and Fremantle ;
THOS. BROWN & SONS, Ltd., Brisbane & Townsville.
COLORED POST CARDS, by Harry J.
Weston ‘ ‘ WEEKLY WORRIES. ”
Set of six, posted free, 6d. Bulletin
Newspaper Co. 214 George St., Sydney.
TH€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth and
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURRAN WHARF.
CALLINC AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
6 New Triple-screw Turbine Steamer,
t For the Melbourne Cup. * One Class only.
FARF.S — Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. From £57 £l6 Os. to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban From £3l 10s. £l3 13s. to £l7 17s.
Special Return Tickets available ; for outward passage
by Orient Line —£112 (First-class each way);
£B6 (Second-class Orient).
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £126 10s.
SALOON CABINS on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest stan-
dard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
DALCETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia-
WHITE STAR LINE
DURBAN, CAPETOWN, PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
H
Twin-screw Steamers.
PERSIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
September 27.
RUNIC, 12,500 tons, to sail about
November 8.
MEDIC, AFItIO and SUEVIC to follow.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy andl
Submarine Signalling Apparatus.
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Fares —Capetown or Durban £l5 15 0t0£24 3 Qi
London .. 19 0 oto 30 0 O'
Melbourne . . .. 1 10 9
New York, Boston, Quebec,
Montreal, etc., from 25 0 0’
Pamphlets and all other information on application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing:,
DALGETY & COMPANY, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
POES THIS APPEAL
TO YOU?
A CRUISE through the coral isles of the Pacific,
affording tourists an opportunity, previously un-
thought of, of viewing the strange inhabitants of
the various South Sea Islands in their still semi-barbarous
state.
If so, we will be happy to forward you our pamphlet
describing our different island tours.
mm
BURNS, PHILP * CO., LTD., 11 Bridge St., Sydney.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
•Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
Ĥ
£2,991,560
£1,989,435
£2,991,560
£7,952,555
DIRECTORS:
The Hon. O. K. MacKellar, M.L.C., Presiden
Senator The Hon. James Thomas Walker.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Backhand, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
The Bon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.C.
Auditors: Alfred George Milson, Esq.; William Harrington Palmer, Esq.
Head Office—George St., Sydney. London, office—29 Threadneedle St., E.C.
With 332 Branches in all the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji and Papua (New South Wales ldo, Victoria 38,
Queensland 49, South Australia 5, West Australia IT>,. New Zealand 57. Tasmania 1, Fiji 3, Papua 2,
London 1); and Agents and Correspondents throughout Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India, China,
Japan, and the East, Africa, Canada, the United States, South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
Cable remittances made to, and Drafts drawn, on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills negotiated and
collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney, Limited.
Capita,! I,’aid-up ~ £1,500,000 0 0
Reserve Fund ... ... 1,460,000 0 0
Reserve Capital .. 1,500,000 0 0
£4,460,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
George: Ji. Cohen, Esq . . .. Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Eater, M.L.C. . . Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses. M.L.C. A. J. Onslow Thompson, Esq.
Hon. James Burns. M.L.C.
Auditors: F. W. Hixson, Esq., & W. L. Docker, Esq.
General Manager: T. A. Dibbs.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
H. H. Massie.
Head Office: George Sti-eet, SYDNEY.
Manager: A. J. Soutar.
Accountant: W. R. Sayers.
Secretary: M. S. Grant.
Branch Accountant: J. Clayton.
Inspectors: W. C. B. Tiley, W. H. Pinhey.
London Office: 18 Bircliin - Lane.
Directors: F. 11. Dangar, Esq.; Hon. H. S.
Littleton; N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
anrl in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. £519,237 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders . . 161,384 0 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) 75,500 0 0
£756,121 0 0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE. • ~~
Gen. Man., Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Man.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office : 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London,
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
The Colonial Mutual Cite
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and
Annuities without Mutual Liability; also
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,219,446.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £6,300,000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
THE OCEAN
Accident & Guarantee
Corporation Limited,
Ocean House, 22 Moore Street, Sydney.
Fire, accident, workmen’s com-
pensation, PUBLIC RISK, BUR-
GLARY and PLATE GLASS INSURANCES
at Lowest Rates.
THE TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP . . . . . . £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Deben-
tures, Stock, & First Mortgages .. £41,000 0 0
Directors : R. Murray Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Chairman ;
John Grice, Esq., Vice-Chairman; Hon. J. M. Pratt;
J. H. MacFarland, Esq., M.A., LL.D.; Alexander
M'Cracken. JAMES BOREOWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
The METROPOLITAN
ACCIDENT, FIRE
and GENERAL
INSURANCE COMPANY, LIMITED.
THE CO-OPERATIVE FIRE OFFICE.
Shares Issued to Contributors of Business.
When your Premium is Due Get Full Particulars.
HEAD OFFICE: 30 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
BRANCHES: Victoria, S. Aus., Queensland.
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.,
FOR
Ordinary 8 Industrial Life Assurance.
Directors:
H. Montgomerie Hamilton, Esq., Chairman.
Victor E. Ludlow, Esq., LR.C.S.I., L.K.Q.C.P.I.
Claude Manning, , Esq.
John F. Ure, Esq.
Ceneral Manager: J. A. Henderson.
Secretary: Consulting Actuary:
Freeman J. Eaton. W. R. Day, F.I.A.
Head Office:
30 CA3TLEREACH ST. (facing Moore St.), SYDNEY.
Queensland: Victoria:
Metropolitan Buildings, 48 Queen St.,
Adelaide St., Brisbane. Melbourne.
4
The “Metropolitan” always has vacancies on its
Agency Staff for reliable and trustworthy men.
Shipping^.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Porr.s,
GERALDTON (W.A.)
S.S. Kyarra (7000), Satur-
day, Sept. 30, and Oct.
► 28. Transhipping at Fre-
mantle to all N.-\Vest
Ports.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairn
S.S. Grantala, Sept. 23-
S.S. Wollowra, Sept. 30
S.S. Innamincka, Oct. &■
Best and Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can he
ascertained on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUIUL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE “ALL-RED” ROUTE
To \ 7 ANCOU VER, via AUCKLAND
(N.Z.), FIJI, and HONOLULU,
thence by Rail to any part of
CANADA or UNITED STATES.
The Best Route to Europe.
SAILINGS :
And every 28 days thereafter.
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Illustrated Pamphlets Free on Application.
Agents throughout Canada, United States
and Europe—Canadian Pacific Railway Co.
‘For full particulars apply—
UNION STHAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George Street, Sydney.
r.—h.=s.
Federal-Houlder-Shire Lines.
ST£AM TO LONDON
Via SUEZ CANAL.
Twin-screw Steamer
“ ARGYLLSHIRE.”
112,300 Tons. Captain Chicken.
Will be despatched from:—
BRISBANE, Oct. 10. MELBOURNE, Oct. 24.
SYDNEY, Oct. 17. ADELAIDE, Oct. 31.
Carries Saloon Passengers only.
The STATE ROOMS are situated on DECK amid-
ships ; DINING SALOON, SMOKE-ROOM and
LOUNGE situated on UPPER DECK. Doctor and
Stewardesses carried. Wireless Telegraphy fitted.
Return and Round Trip Tickets issued via Cape
and (or) Suez Canal Routes. Prepaid passages
arranged.
FARES —Single, £4O to £45.
Return, £6B to £76 10s.
From Brisbane £2 extra.
To be followed at regular four-weekly intervals by
fast twin-screw passenger steamers. For further in-
formation, illustrated books, pamphlets, etc., apply
to—
BIRT & CO., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane;
McILWRAITH, McEACRARN & CO., Prop., Ltd.,
Melbourne.
ELDER, SMITH & CO., Ltd., Adelaide.
H. JONES & CO., Ltd., Hobart;
v EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda., Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
BRISBANE VISITORS.
65*0 HOTEL VICTORIA,
Victoria Place, Brisbane, is MOST CENTRAL.
LARGE NEW BEDROOMS, with all latest Modern
Conveniences. Tariff from 6/- a Day.
JOHN BRQ3NAN, Proprietor.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Coughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GRIMAULT & Co’s INDIAN CIGAR-
ETTES. Sold by all Chrmiets.
sunt#
MidX
Superior to
INJECTIONS
CUBEBS and
COPAIBA.
Cures the same
diseases without
inconvenience
in
48 hours.
Each Capsule hears the name
Ħ


:
a*
/
mm
Let it be a Kodak!
Get a KODAK for
your Summer Outings
Make the happiness of to-day a pleasure for many to-morrows with
a Kodak picture record of your Summer outings.
The Kodak Camera works at the bidding of the merest novice;
there is no dark-room for any part of the work; simplicity
prevails from start to finish.
Won’t you get one for Summer? There are jolly times ahead of
you if you do, for the Kodak never becomes monotonous ; it
doubles the joy of every outing.
Prices range from 26/=; Brownie-Kodaks from 5/=. Kodak
Catalogue free.
The No. 3a Folding Pocket
Kodak Camera 90 j-
The No. 3a Folding Pocket Kodak is the most popular of all cameras ; takes the full-
size postcard picture,
work, yet so simple as to be effectively handled by a novice. Equipment includes double
rapid rectilinear lens, Kodak automatic shutter, automatic focussing lock, brilliant
reversible finder and tripod sockets. Price, £4/10/-. Postage extra, 1/3.
KODAK (Australasia) LTD.,
(Sole Agents for THE GAUMONT CO., LTD., Cinematograph Experts),
Incorporating: Baker
& Rouse Prop. Ltd.
379 George St., Sydney.
Ruthven St., Toowoomba.
“The Block,” 284 Collins St., Melbourne. 37 Rundle St., Adelaide. 78=80 Queen St., Brisbane.
Flinders St., Townsville. 346 Argent St., Broken Hill. 6 Mercer St., Wellington, N.Z.
mmmm ■ - 1
/
IX
L,
< .
0
Fine New Diamond
and
Platinum Jewellery
at the Treasure House
No. i—Choice Diamond Set Necklet. Set with Finest
Quality White Diamonds in Real Platinum, with P'ine
Platinum Trace Pattern Chain. £55.
No. 2 —Exquisite Diamond Set Brooch. Set with
Specially Selected P'ine White Diamonds in Real
Platinum. £45.
No. 3 — Beautiful Diamond Set Necklet. Set with Finest
Quality Brilliant Cut Diamonds in Real Platinum.
£42.
No. 4 —Handsome Diamond Set Flexible Bangle. Set
with II P'ine Quality White Diamonds in Real
Platinujp, and Isct. Gold. £75.
No. 5 — Exquisite Diamond Set Heart Pendant. Set
with Specially Selected P'ine White Diamonds in 15CC.
Gold. £3O.
No. 6 — Dainty Diamond Set Earrings. Set with 6 P'ine
Quality Brilliant Cut Diamonds in Real Platinum and
Isct. Gold. £l7/10/=*
No. 7 — Elegant Diamond and Pearl Earrings. Set with
Fine White Diamonds and Whole White Pearls.
£lO/10/=
No. B— A Unique Diamond Set Crossover Ring. Set
with 9 Fine White Diamonds in Real Platinum and
iBct. Gold. £2l.
No. 9 — Quaintly Designed Diamond Set Necklet. Set
with Specially Selected P'ine White Diamonds in Real
Platinum, .with Fine Trace Pattern Platinum Chain.
£5O. 1
No. 10— Very Effective Diamond Set Ring. Set with
Fine Quality Diamonds in Real Platinum and iBct.
Gold. £lB/10/=
Stewart Dawson
STRAND CORNER, 8 Co. (All St.) Ltd.
412 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.


CONSTIPATION.
The most persistent and troublesome human ail-
ment known, and the forerunner of many other
diseases, is now most effectively cured with Cham-
berlain’s Tablets, and then most of the other ail-
ments vanish, because nature has a free chance to
work. Chamberlain’s Tablets are a simple and re-
liable remedy, and one that contains no harsh, in-
jurious drug.* • ‘
Australian football this season has been
decorated with the usual amount of biff
delivered when the victim wasn’t looking.
It needs the best brand of wisdom to elimin-
ate this defect in a great game. Those re-
sponsible can knock out this Demon of Biff
with a few well-placed rules if they make a
sincere effort and seek inspiration from
D.C.L., the Whisky of the Wise.*
Brought to Bay
Are those enemies of civilisation, Indigestion and
Dyspepsia, when Dr. Sheldon’s Digestive Tabules
are employed ; 2s. Oil. per tin of 80 Tabules.*
COOL
UNDERWEAR
FOR MEN.
We lay ourselves out to cater for those
who understand the art of keeping cool.
We keep stocks of feather-weight under-
wear, such as very few other Houses
know anything about —much less can
supply.
For instance:
CREAM CELLULAR FINISH SING-
LETS, with half sleeves, 3/11 to 5/6.
Underpants and trunk drawers to
match.
LISLE THREAD SINGLETS—white,
with neat, light stripes, 4/0; under-
pants to match.
SILK FINISH CELLULAR SING-
LETS, with half sleeves; orange
shades; 4/11, 5/6; underpants to
match.
WHITE INDIA GAUZE SINGLETS,
with half sleeves, 1/9, 2/6, 2/11, 3/6,
3/11 each; underpants and knicker
drawers to match.
Send for Catalogue.
Finney, Isles U Co.
LIMITED,
The Big BlocK,
BRISBANE.
IN
BANANA LAND
In the face of their recent calamities
from fraudulant trustees and other humbugs,
Queensland friendly societies are commenc-
ing to clamor for a strict -annual Govern-
ment audit of their finances. The present
method of selecting auditors is to appoint
Brother Jonathan Smith on the score of his
long membership, even if he can’t add up a
dozen figures correctly. One result of this
system was that a certain trustee (who
died in tragic fashion lately) was able, for
18 years, to defraud his society to the tune
of £6OO per annum.
It is all very well for Queensland State
school inspectors to condemn cow slavery,
but the Education Department evidently
thinks the schoolboy doesn’t get enough cow,
for teachers are now encouraged to attend a
course of lectures at Gatton College, on
(ream testing and cow culture. The State
school curriculum is already stuffed to over-
flowing, and, when poor old Dinah gets in-
side the door, somebody or something will
have to get out to, make room. Children can
be cow-sweated in school as well as on the
farm.
“Ivobbi”: The cnase for land in the
Banana country runs riot occasionally.
Away west by Winton, on the plains, the
Bareeda block of 127 square miles of country
was auctioned for lease. The country is de-
scribed as “not first-class land, is nearly all
cattle country, but with a permanent water-
hole or two.” The upset price was 275. 6d.
Four applicants were on the trail, and the
rent ran to 108 s. per square mile before the
bidders were thinned out to one. This is
considered as the record price for a pastoral
lease in Bananaland. The two adjoining
pieces bring 16s. and 21s. respectively. Who
said leaseholds would kill private energy?
The Bulletin receives from John Adam-
son, M.L.A., a letter to the general effect
that he didn’t say what The Bulletin said
he said (24/S/T1). Mr. Adamson encloses
a cutting showing what he did say, and if
the cutting covers the whole ground then it
seems that he really said almost nothing re
the subject which he says this paper thought
he was talking about; and was fairly indefi-
nite concerning some other topics. At least,
he said so little at that time on that topic,
however much he may have said at other
times on that or any other topic, that it
didn’t really amount to anything or even
less than that with per cent, knocked off
for cash. Under the circumstances, whatever
these may be, this paper withdraws every-
thing it said on the matter, though it has no
longer any very clear recollection as to what
the matter was, or what was said about it,
or who said it. And it will cheerfully throw
in a beer if that will do any good, unless the
plaintiff prefers some other drink, such as
dog’s nose.
A little-minded Tory asked Labor candi-
date Gilday, at the Toowong campaign, if
he had ever been to a University. Gilday
was prompt: “Yes—been right through. I
used to take my brother’s dinner there. He
was employed building a University—he was
a bricklayer.”
Mr. Bung, of Bananaland, is a cynical
humorist. He and his brethren, after raging
at the Government’s so-called drastic Liquor
Bill, determined to meet in solemn conclave
and plot tfie ruin of Denham and Co. To
this alleged end they applied to the Premier
for the loan of the Government steamer Lu-
cinda. And they qot it. Which winked first
—the Government or Bung—hasn’t been
disclosed.
Significant par. from the Brisbane Courier
(8 /9/’ n ) :
The continued dry weather is causing uneasiness
amongst stock-owners (writes our Charleviile cor-
respondent). There are small holdings in the neigh-
borhood which are already feeling the curse of over-
stocking, and scrub-cutting has been resorted to.
Further west, towards Cooper’s Creek, sheep are
being shifted as quickly as possible towards Charle-
ville, and there is a keen demand for relief country.
The routes in some instances are becoming bad, for
travelling stock, long dry stages being in evidence.
As far as the country around Charleviile is con-
cerned, there is still abundance of dry feed, and
there is no shortage of water yet. Those who are
crying out most are those who have considerably
overstocked their country.
AFTER THE SMOKE CONCERT.
FIRST FESTIVE S OUL: “D’v know—hie — Simkins?”
SECOND SOUL: “Hie—Simkims? Hie — no—washish name?"
FIRST SOUL: “I.I.I dunno."
Several politicians have been so fortunate
as to lend their names to enrich the vocabu-
lary of Bananaland. To “Bulcoek” the
rolls and to perpetrate a “Tozer” are phrases
well understood in the North. The latest,
“To Kidstonise a surplus,” signifies to re-
duce an overplus of a quarter of a million
to four or five thousand by artistic manipu-
lation.
Rockhampton has a useful botanist in ex-
Mayor Wilkinson, who specialises in native
grasses. He had on view at a local exhibi-
tion a collection of 120 varieties, of which
five belonged to the famous Mitchell family.
The whole lot was gathered in the eastern
half of Central Queensland. At this rate
the whole State should have about 500 dif-
ferent kinds of pasturage. And there is no
rubbish among it either; it is all more or
less good fodder, much of it equal to any-
thing in the world. Some of it ought to be
able to defy any ordinary-sized drought, too;
for Mr. Wilkinson has measured roots 10ft.
long. Altogether, Queensland is an amazing
kind of desert.
“B. de D.” : writes :
Re Paddy Perkins, the distinguished Bananaland
tracker (B. 31/8/’ll), I knew him well—a black-
fellow of infinite jest and most excellent fancy. One
of his masterpieces was the capture of Burgess,
afterwards arrested in connection with the Gatton
murder. Burgess had a tremendous' start and a fast
horse. Perkins tracked him for 60 miles over coun-
try that an elephant would not have indented, and
ultimately bagged his prey. Apropos the Gatton
murder, when Patrick was first taken to the spot,
he turned to the police-inspector, and said politely:
“Excuse me, sir; but this job has been messed up.”
So it had. The police had allowed hundreds of
people to make tracks round the scene, and even the
Master j«ould not distinguish between the footprints
of respectable people and those of murderers. Paddy*
spoke good English—no “mine tinkits” or “plur-
ries.” His one intellectual weakness was born of
professional pride, and really it had a bit of logic
in it. He held it as an article of faith that no
criminal could be morally found guilty unless he had
been actually tracked from the scene of the crime.
Mrs. Jones on Defence.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mother of Four” wrote the Brisbane Courier
lately, complaining that she had to find room for her
boys’ uniforms and guns.
“Goodness gracious, Mrs. ’Arris, wot a time is this
a-comin’,
When a boy must leave his mother in the evenin’
for his drill,
When he’s got to go a-marchin’ to a silly kettle-
drummin’,
Though his mother’s got the toothache and his
daddy’s feelin’ ill.
“For his soldier togs and gun we gotter find a bit
o’ shelter ;
Not a farthin’ does the Guv’ment ever find you
for the room;
And I reckon if the vote of me could drive ’em
helter-skelter,
You would see the gang go packin’ like the dust
before the broom.
“Says I once to John, my husband: ‘Did you ever
’ave to ’ustle,
And to do the silly goose-step by the twinkle of
the stars?’
And says John, says he: ‘Old lady, did you ever se«
me bustle
In yer life, except when makin’ for the stuff be-
hind’the bars?
“ ‘Let me ’ave a drop o’ whisky in the evenin’ and
me baccy,
And a bit o’ chaff and nonsense and a yarn with
neighbor Ben,
And the march in’ 1 will leave it all to little Joe
and Jacky,
For it’s not the game for toilers as ’as got the
Rights o’ Men.
“ ‘And when ’arf a dav at week-end comes I goes
and sees the cricket,
As I well-nigh on for 20 year ’-ave always been
and done;
■Or in season there’s the football —as a game you
cannot lick it,
And the kiddies do my duty with the wheelin’ and
the gun.’ '
“And my feelins’ I must smother while I listen to
his skitin’,
But I’d e’en forgive the Guv’mint and the
meddlin’ Labor crew,
If they’d only drive the daddies to their share of
drill and fightin’,
And let off the little kiddies for another year or
two.”
QUEENSLAND.
F.B.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, September IG, 1911.
My Dear Thargomindah,—
The Scarlett aide’s days with us are num-
bered. A Voice has spoken, and shortly he
will put his bee-utiful uniform, boots and
banjo into a handy carpet-bag, and leave us
to mourn, while he hies him to rejoin his
regiment in India. The Scarlett one is a
deservedly-popular young man, tactful and
discreet withal, and with pretty manners,
which dowagers declare recall the gallantry
of “my young days, my dear.”
We are just now busy congratulating little
Miss Griffith —a sister of the Commonwealth
C.J. —-on whom George 5 has been pleased
to bestow the order of Lady of Grace of St.
John of Jerusalem. Lady Dudley was an-
other Lady of Grace, and often wore her
enamel-ware Maltese cross amid her pearls
and diamonds. There is no more philan-
thropic person in this State than Miss Grif-
fith. She knows by rote the history of Bris-
bane’s charitable institutions, and the secre-
tary of any of them could tell her signature
on a cheque at a distance of four furlongs.
The Denham daughters, who entertained
their friends on Wednesday, literally turned
the ingleside inside out, hung fairy lights
and colored electric lights on the broad ver-
andahs, and unfurled a rose-embowered mar-
quee in which to feed the lions, etc. The
Vision was one of the lions.
The Boys’ Grammar School held its an-
nual. sports yesterday afternoon, under the
admiring gaze of mothers and maiden aunts,
and several hundred of other fellows’ sisters.
Mrs. J. L. Woolcock, whose J. L. is Chair-
man of Committees, and Mrs. Bonsfield, the
wife of the headmaster, extended the hand of
welcome to the vice-regal party. Lady
Mac wore pale blue, and the Vision arrayed
her dainty form in amethyst.
There are at least two things in “Under
Two Flags” that arouse mirth in the frivo-
lous-minded. One is the weird military dis-
cipline that permits Cigarette to tongue-lash
the Black Hawk in the presence of his men,
and the other is the wobbliness of the Mar-
shal’s legs. Also, it doesn’t seem nice of
Bertie Cecil, when rapturously greeted by
Venetia and reminded of their last meeting,
to gaze fixedly in her face and murmur, “It
seems a thousand years since then!”
Why is it, Thargomindah, that Australian
poetry is so seldom taught in our schools?
A firm of Melbourne publishers has issued a
series under the name of “The Southern
Cross Poetry Books.” From the name, one
expects to meet with Gordon, Kendall, Brun-
ton Stephens, and others equally well known ;
but no. W. Shakspeare, Herrick (a giddy
person, when alls said), Wordsworth,
Bur-r-r-ns, etc. I want to know where the
Southern Cross comes in. It seems to me
“Bosh” would do better than “Cross.”
This is how the baker of the steamer put
it, in reply to the complaint of Denham’s im-
migrants that the bread was not sufficiently
roasted: “The bread was never doughy,
though it was a bit so once or twice.”
The elections were hopelessly quiet. Weary
shemales of both sides worked strenuously
from 8 p.m. until 0 p.m., snatched a sardine
roll between times, and went on their way
well-oiled. One of the features of the poll-
ing was the large number of women, or the
number of large women, who were early at
each of the booths. Probably hubby cooked
the rolled chaff himself that morning.
Mr. and Mrs. A. O. Dodwell, with their
two little boys and Mr. Fuller, are at present
touring round your South Coast per motor.
Their last benzine-waggon trip took them to
the chilly top of Kosciusko.
We have here an embryo Clara Butt, in
the person of Miss Kathleen McSweeney,
whom I heard first, three years ago, at a
Toowoomba Eisteddfod. The little lady, as
her name shows, is a typical daughter of the
Snake-deserted Isle, and her fresh young
face and simply-knotted hair will appeal to
any audience long before they hear the rich,
deep voice of which she is the possessor.
The long-suffering Omar, after years of
mis-quoting in this part of the globe, is
about to be more thoroughly disintegrated.
Philip Newbury, Arthur Crane and Lena
Hammond have formed themselves into a
Musical Union, and, on the 19th, will warble
to a sympathetic or infuriated audience some
of Omar’s heartfelt demands for strong drink
and other necessary joys.
The “strike” of school-children in half-
starved England is no new idea. Denham
suggested it in Queensland some time back,
when he said to a herd of little cow-slaves:
“I consider that you have quite enough work
to do in your school hours. If you work
hard then, and do your best, it is quite
enough. I don’t believe in home lessons,
and, if I were you, I’d go on strike rather
than do them.”
Guests at the Woolcock moonlight garden
party successfully solved the problem of dress
by appearing in evening clothes and hats,
and the men in swallow-tails. A palmist
plied a busy trade in a lantern-dimmed sum-
mer-house, and a roulette table on the ver-
andah served to show that the gambling in-
stinct flourishes under a gown of silver and
Chantily lace just as well as a two-up school
jersey. The hostess, who has an enviable
knack of making her guests enjoy themselves,
was gowned in black satin, her daughter
looking chic in white. Niece Dorothy Mus-
mann, in whose honor the job was under-
taken, has since returned to Sydney.
Next week will witness several marriages.
Miss Dorothy Ryder—who has succeeded in
keeping her head above the tea spilled in her
honor for the past fortnight—and Mr. J.
Petrie will chance it, and Mr. Kidston (a
son of our own “Wullie”) will threaten to
make happy Miss Mary Jane Thompson. The
knot-tyings of this week included that of
pretty Doris Harding, a cousin of the popu-
lar Mrs. Donald Cameron, and Miss Mai
Harding, who conspired with Mr. Harding
Frew, 8.E., a branch of the surviving house
of Frew. The wedding marches were played
to a swish of much gorgeous dressing.
Tours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
Though they have not actually gone out
on strike, Queensland pastoralists have lately
been in a state of subdued revolt against the
meat-preserving monopolists. Proposals have
been made for the building of meat-works on
the co-operative plan, but they have come to
nothing; so the Government has been per-
suaded to take a hand, and a scheme has
been hatched to provide State chilling works
at Pinkenba, Brisbane, at a cost of a quarter
of a million. The fat squatter is mostly a
strenuous advocate of Private Enterprise;
but somehow he is offering all the encourage-
ment he .can to this attack on his joss.
Some time ago, one W. H. Ramm claimed
a Government reward as the discoverer of
the method of inoculating cattle against tick
fever. The Department replied that one of
its own officers, Dr. Hunt, had got in first,
and so it refused to pay. The intermittent
quarrel has raged up and down the country
for years, until at last Hardacre, M.L.A.,
has got a select committee appointed to
scratch among the papers. Dr. Hunt is
very dead nowadays ; but Ramm is still liv-
ing, and still persistently writing “Pro Bono
Publico” letters, to the press, with an occa-
sional outbreak into dubious poetry.


—
zr: --
. v
i-mw
| fcj
V'-V^O..-
jf
: ■
.
\m
—~ SWNI^
v. m^u
r.rt 'rrr* J ’ ‘ *^£*“77-
|L 1 ffPBSli? I:
, Jrrrrr;r** I
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS ; Lj
FARM IMPLEMENTS SHOW ROOM. FARM MACHINERY,
hIBitIBItI
tmmm mm/i 1 » ra» iu
ifßiiiiimiii
gs
1
V;. I
V . •::
' . -
V. i-
; I
f a I
* i
m i
%£?M
m
/
*>■
•CHji
i;4»&
? . m
-v
■pf!*.*,
yr:"/
/
w
:■ ./-
'
'
•-V-- J
> V
I S\
■O
tim
r j
h 11
X
I
M
□K
FftS:--.'i
!HEi
.
VAi
7
Sun-Line- <=j- Jtirm Implements
WORK WELL and LAST LONG.
.
ice aK^
un^rvine.
c3 un f!
oWer^one-
-way JPi^c
ro u
Lrs O f}\
(t) o
“Y
15
G
TJ
::
QGo
>
CP
Y
'■pucKon* o , p^^ ri S. e Tr&oHon 'plo.ugk.incj plant
njjgiQn B.HP. ot-rawinjf 4- Jp i<^
H. V. McKAY,
FARM IMPLEMENT MANUFACTURER,
Sunshine Harvester Works, SUNSHINE.
BRANCHES Melbourne Office 8 Showrooms: 102-104 Spencer Street (exactly opposite Railway Station)
New South Wales Office and Show Rooms: 27-39 Cecrge Street West. Sydney.
•-ustra tan Office and Showrooms: 56 North Terrace, Adelaide. London Office : Amberley House, Norfolk Street, Strand, W.C.


NEW
Queensland Railways.
Thousands of men will be working on
these shortly, and the wise ones will
wear our
Signal Brand
Boots
especially made for this work.
EACH PAIR GUARANTEED.
Take no other brand if you wish for
satisfactory wear.
Demand them from your storekeeper.
MADE WITH UNION LABOR.
Have
Green
Soles.
a
THE
(RECIS
OH.C?L*
TEREO)
Have
Green
Soles.
The Davey Halliday C?- u
BRISBANE, Q.,
SOLE MANUFACTURERS.
The Elite
Cau de Cologne
m
nil
&
m
teW:
css*
I!
PVUDEO
S -
rIDELITAS
API
>'!
7 .'>•?.
. V
l 1 ®*:
Mgtt
Yt
igK^lfV?
F.WOLFF&SOHN
-Karlsruhe
Baden
i
Triumph of
Modem Science
Obtainable from all leading establishments
H
Look manly and
smart by growing an attrac-
tive Moustache. ‘MOUSTA,’
the True Moustache Grower,
speedily forces one at any
age like magic. Quite harmless to use.
Boys become men. ‘ Mousta’ is used
all over the world and is strongly
recommended by the Medical Pro-
fession. Entire success or money willingly
returned. ‘Mousta’ produces astonishingly
quick results and is the talk of London.
Full Treatment, sufficient to promote Good
Growth, 5/- (postage 6d. ex.ral, sent at once
in plain wrapper on receipt of International
Money Order, 5/6. Send now to—
F. DIXON & CO., 42, Junction Road,
London, N., England.
Ĥ
A MONTHLY GUIDE for everything Aus
tralian. That’s The Lone Hand. “A
marvellous sixpenn’orth ! ”
m
■
:
.
m'W'S
I
■
'o\'
IT »
~ —■■
' ' .
What a beautiful
Polish!
THAT is the remark of everyone using
__ Shi-Noleum for the first time, and the
more they use it the better pleased
they are with themselves for giving it a trial
we would like you to try it too, you will’
find that it gives a brilliant surface to your
floors with only half the usual work, it wilt
save you money too as one tin will last as
long as three tins of the old fashioned creams
For Linoleums. Furniture, wood Floors
and Tan Boots there is nothing to equal it
Sold by all leading stores in
N. S. W., Victoria .&.Queensland
The PagefMaiuifacttiring Co. Ltd
Melbourne- 8i Sydney
BOOMERANG ACCORDEONS
(NINE NEW
TYPES).
WJ/MM-M
JlJbprti Broinpr.<ng ft
UMAjsw cup JMOitag p<M j i I
SO!I3>l 133J.S \ i
(f #* jf <»» J
Each “Boomerang” Accordeon is the acme of Perfection;
the Reeds are hand-filed, and cost but 255., 405., and 555. Those
we specially recommend are:—
No. 105 Accordeon, “Boomerang” Brand, is of medium size,
black mouldings, two sets of wrought and hand-turned English
STEEL REEDS, invisible Fastener, NICKEL BELLOW PRO-
TECTORS, soberest workmanship, and highest quality of tone.
Price, including leatherette case, with lock and key, 30/-, post
free.
No. 108 Accordeon, “Boomerang” Brand, large in size, black
polished mouldings, bellows fitted with patent nickel protectors,
encircling each individual rib of the bellows, and three inde-
pendent stops. Each Accordeon is fitted with instantaneous In-
visible Fastener, THREE full sets of highly-tempered English
STEEL REEDS, the Gem of Perfection in loudness and quality
of tone. Price, in leatherette case complete, 405., post free.
ALBERT (Si SON, 137*139 King Street, Sydney,
H
SCIENCE
behind it !
PEBECO is a complete scientific health
course for the mouth and teeth.
Its alkaline properties correct the acidity of
the saliva, prevent bacterial inroads upon the
teeth and deodorise the breath. Pebeco imparts
a pearly whiteness, arrests decay, removes tartar,
and, by invigorating the tissues, remedies shrink-
ing gums.
PEBECO
Tooth Paste
is highly antiseptic, and, if regularly used, pre-
vents many diseases of the mouth and throat.
Of all Chemists, etc.
SOLE AGENT—
Q ARNOLD, 6 O’Connell St., Sydney.
(Wholesale only.)
Ħ
H
66
99
All-wool
Unshrinkable
Stockings & Socks.
Wool is far superior to cotton for foot-wear.
It is more comfortable and much healthier. are
All-Australasian-Wool. They are unshrinkable and the
Jfadon, process retains the fleecy softness of the woo'.
In a word $££222* are the best and —they are no
dearer than ordinary hose.
Men’s Hose—plain, ribbed, and in vertical stripes, art shades.
Ladi s' Hose—plain, ribbed, lace, and in vertical stripes, art shades.
Children’s i Hose and Socks—plain, ribbed lace, and embroidered in all fancy
colours. Of Men’s Outfitters. Drapers and Stores. If your dealer does not
stock “Jason” he can obtain it from his wholesale house.
in case of difficulty write for "Jason" booklet and name of nearest agent to
JASON HOSIERY CO.. Leicester. England. <$
Aal6
Hycsl
GUARD YOUR HOME AGAINST DISEASE.
Use Hycol, 18-20 times stronger than Carbolic Acid, and
Non-poisonotts. GET IT NOW,
Particulars from: — F» H« FAULDING & CO,,
Sydney.
The MQST PeWERnT
Ĥ
<3
m
Fashionable
Favorite-Perfume
NHOStfdilO
> v '' W'
F. Wolff &Sohn
PERFUMERS
KARLSRUHE
k _ BERLIN * LONDON j
Obtainable from all the Lea'diny Stores.
H
8 5 0
3 10 0
5 10 0
1 17 (i
5 10 0 4 17
During the Progress of our GREAT REMOVAL
SALE we are offering the following
Usual Price. Sale Price
Double - Barrelled, Breech - loading;
Guns, engine-turned rib, left, bar-
rel full choke, right modified, re-
bounding locks and pistol grip.
Trial £5 2 6 £3 12 6
Single-Barrel Duck Guns, large bore,
to kill at 100yds. Trial
Single-Barrel, Hammerless, Breech-
loading Guns,choke bore, excellent
stock. Trial
Double - Barrelled, Breech - loading
Guns with Greener patent wedge
fast cross bolt, choke bore, walnut
stock, pisfol grip, patent cartridg
ejector. Trial.. .. ..
Special Pigeon Guns, with patent
side clips, file cut rib, top lever,
choke bore, specially selected wal-
nut stock, Greener patent wed"
fast cross bolt. Trial
Mauser Principle Rifles, 22 calibre,
kill at 300yds. Trial
Guns by All Makers in Stock.
Write for Special Sale Catalogue.
ALL ORDERS FOR GUNS AND RIFLES DE-
LIVERED CARRIAGE PAID TO ANY ADDRESS
IN AUSTRALASIA.
small Arms Co.
Gunsmiths & Importers.
242-244 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE
£HEAP, Second-Hand 15BrakeH.P.
TANGYE GAS ENGINE,
IN GOOD ORDER.
Apply Manager, “ BULLETIN ” OFFICE,
214 George Street, Sydney.
..10 0 0
15 0
10 0
13 6
Big G
Borated Golden teal
Compound
J A safe and simple remedy for 1
Bronchitis, Catarrh, Hay Fever 1
Inflammations, Irritations, ulcer-
ations of ALL mucous membranes
or linings o t the nose, throat,
stomach or urinary organs.
AT CHEMISTS
Why not cure yourself
Treatise wl th jach bottle
or mailed on request.
The Enns Chemical Co.
Ciarissati, Ohio,
U.S.A.
Ĥ
ARE YOU
RUPTURED
Have yon grown tired of wearing useless and
cumbersome trusses ? Do you want to obtain an
appliance that is not only comfortable to wear;
but one THAT WILL HOLD YOUR RUPTURE UNDER
ALL CONDITIONS? Then write us, and we will
send you particulars and testimonials regarding
our
AIRCUSHION APPLIANCE
which is something entirely new, is in fact, THE
BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE OF THE CENTURY. No
galling steel springs or chafing leather under-
straps. The pad is made of soft pliable rubber,
which presses gently, yet firmly on THE COKatbi
SPOT. To show what we think of the Appliance
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within the reach
of all. Can you ask for more? PERFECT CASt
AND COMFORT FROM THE FIRST DAY'S USE. An
appliance suitable for men, women and children
Descriptive Pamphlet Posted Free.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
348 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE, VIC.


Ħ
"^8
Turn
This
Button.
Pen
Fills
Itself.
A Self-Filling Fountain
Pen —that is Different.
Users of Fountain Pens
will find the
“MODERN”
AUTOMATIC
Self-Filling
Fountain Pen
especially desirable for com-
mercial or home use. You
simply twist the button at
the end, hold pen in ink,
untwist, and the pen fills
itself. There are no joints,
therefore avoiding any
danger of soiling the fin-
gers or clothing. Costs
no more than the ordinary
fountain pen. Made in both
plain and fancy holders,
with a variety of nibs.
Modern Pen Company,
Sole Selling Agent for
A. A. Waterman & Co.,
New York.
22 THAMES STREET,
NEW YORK, U.S.A.
Ryan, Lewis & Co. Pty. Ltd.,
521 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, Sole Agents for
Waterman Fountain Pens.
We also manufacture a
complete line of lower end
joint and Safety types.
Dealers will find our en-
tire line a profitable one.
Write for trade prices.
They will interest you.
If it isn’t an “ A.A.” it
isn’t a “ MODERN.”
11
H
OSTRICH TIPS
From South Africa.
3 f or 10j m
: Black, White,
Cream, Natural, or
Black tipped with
White.
(Length, 10 inches.) Post
Free to any address.
Worth twice the money. Write
to-day. Send Postal Notes.
Catalogues Free.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY ; also at
Corner of Bourkeand Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention Tin? Hitt,tFTTy. 1 ''
TROUCHETS
DIURETIC
KIDNEY&DL3DDER
REMEDY
A CORRECTIVE
OF the:
URINARY
ORGANS
m
IT IS
ALSO A
SPLENDID
Tome
Obfamcit>/e o>// Chem /sfs
■CURTON,HODGSON & C? IT?I
Sole Australasian Agents. Z 5 YORK STSYDNEY
The*Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
m nse sine* 1596.
CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
S- GREEN. 210. Lambeth Koad, London, Erm.
THE FUNNIEST THINS ABOUT
THE CHALMERS CAR
is that it fulfils exactly “the ideal” of the experienced motorist —the man who knows—
the man who has had other cars, and by their failings decides on the specifications of
his next car. As an instance, take J. O. Fairfax, Esq., of the “Sydney Morning
Herald,” who has had 14 cars before he bought his Chalmers Car.
PTBUY YOUR LAST CAR FIRST.
Ĥ
SPECIFICATIONS.
20-30 H.P. Monobloc, with engine,
gearbox and clutch enclosed in one unit
—2-bearing crankshaft running on ball
bearings—very large valves —full float-
ing rear axle. Made in all styles, from
runabouts to limousines.
ROY W. SANDFORD
105 EXHIBITION ST. f MELBOURNE; 181 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY.
AERATED WATERS
of the Very best quality are produced with the
REGAL
i
... .
THE REGAL Aerated Water Machine. 1911 Model.
at less than ONE
PENNY per dozen.
The most perfect and compact
machine ever offered for the use
of Hotelkeepers, Cafes, etc.
Write at once for Catalogues
and Prices.
Sole Manufacturers:
Eckersley S Sons,
3 Bond Street, Sydney,
and Melbourne.
AGENTS:
QUEENSLAND: Elliott, Donaldson
& Douglas, Brisbane.
S. AUSTRALIA: Auld & Sons,
Adelaide.
W. AUSTRALIA: L. Samson & Sons,
Fremantle.
Note:—As a warranty for the ex-
cellent quality of the aerated waters
produced by Eckerslev’s machines,
we may mention that they are
used exclusively in leading hos-
pitals in Sydney, Melbourne and
Wellington.
IS
l m
a*
m
“What A Perfect Figure!”
Yet if the lady earning this compliment
were not properly corseted, the same person
would call her stout.
The La Diva Reducing Corset, No. 609,
is made on the principle that plumpness is
not a detriment, but an advantage when
properly treated.
With entire comfort the hips can be
reduced three inches or more, and the gores
aid the straps in creating the graceful
silhouette decreed by Fashion.
Until you have tried La Diva 609, you
cannot realize the perfect blend of style and
r rz
609
comfort possible in a corset.
Examine this model at any good drapers, and see if this
Canadian Corset is not superior to other corsets at double
the price.
DOMINION CORSET CO., QUEBEC, Canada,
Makers of the famous D & A Canadian Corsets.
25-11
SPRING SUITINGS, in
the Latest Novelties,
now opened up.
David Braham $ Co.,
TAILORS,
76 Market St., Sydney
(Next Door to Farmer’s).
Call or Write for Patterns.
ARE YOU
DEAF?
If you are deaf, or going deaf, you will
be glad to hear of a simple and scientific de-
vice which will restore your hearing, no mat-
ter how old you are. There is no mystery
or secrecy about it; we describe it fully and
explain just how it acts.
You use spectacles as sight magnifiers, and
in tiie same way you may use this sound
magnifier as an aid to weak hearing. But,
unlike spectacles, the Wilson Common-sense
Ear-Drums are invisible and comfortable.
You can’t tell you are wearing them. No
one else can, either, because they are not
seen.
They rest the ear nerves by taking the
strain off them —the strain of trying to bear
dim sounds. What a blessed relief to have
done with that tiring strain!
Being made of the purest and softest Para
rubber, they cannot be felt, even when the
head rests on ,a pillow. For the same reason,
a blow on the side of the head will not hurt
the ear. In fact, they protect the ear, the
tender inner parts that are so sensitive, from
cold winds, dust, sudden and piercing sounds.
So that you may clearly understand why
these facts are true, and why the Sound Mag-
nifier restores the hearing, we give an illus-
tration of one as it lies in the ear. You will
notice that the Sound Magnifier is shaped
like a trumpet, and so conveys even the
faintest sounds right to the natural ear-
drum. Being of the softest rubber, it cannot
hurt the ear. It fits the orifice of the ear
with precision and comfort. The division
that runs across the mouth is to allow the re-
moval and insertion of the Ear-Drum, and to
brace it.
The shape of the Wilson Ear-Drum has
been chosen after years of experience as the
best adapted to carry the faintest sound right
down to the natural ear-drum.
To persons who are nearly deaf, it is not
only trying to have people shout at them,
but it hurts the ear-drum. When age comes
the ear-drum sometimes gets thickened, or
loses its tightness, and shouting does not act
properly on it. It only makes a confused
anti tiring noise. But the Sound Magnifiers
concentrate the sound in the best spot for
perfect hearing.
Of course, if you have lost the hearing-
nerve completely, or were born deaf, we can-
not pretend to cure you. Only a miracle
could do that, in spite of some of the absurd
claims made to-day. But if you can hear the
faintest sound, do not despair. You will
never regret trying the Wilson Ear-Drums.
We have letters to show you from deaf people
in Australia and New Zealand who have been
cured', and you can be cured, too. You may
'veswjt'.the Ear-Drums day and ajighit, and take
theh% out whenever you wish, Children can
wear them (we have special sjzfes for children
from six to twelve). Even a child can insert
and remove them without the least danger.
The price is £1 (the fee for a doctor’s
single visit). This includes a pair of Drums
(they are only sold in pairs), a fine nickel
remover and also an inserter. After the first
pair is bought you may purchase a single
drum at any time for Bs., but the pair you
get at first will last quite two years. Do not
ask for a trial pair. We do not send them
out on trial, and so they are never second-
hand. Use the Order Form below, and the
Outfit will be sent to you at once, with the
fullest instructions. Don’t delay, but have
the comfort of good hearing as soon as you
can.
ORDER FORM.
STAR NOVELTY CO.,
103 Premier Buildings,
229 Collins Street, Melbourne (Vic.).
Please send me an Outfit containing a pair
of Wilson Common-sense Ear-Drums, an In-
serter and a Remover, for which I enclose
One Pound.
Name
Address
NOTE.—Send by Money Order or Postal
Note. If a Bank Note or Sovereign is sent,
you muil register it.


Missing: Friends.
Roland ell wood terry shutt
—or TERRY. Anyone knowing the
whereabouts of above person, who left
Loughbro’, England, November, 1908, for
Otorohanga, W. T. W., New Zealand, thence
for Sydney, August, 1909, please communi-
cate with
W. A.,
Bulletin, Sydney.
RAY TANSEY is requested to communi-
cate with
BROTHER L.,
Cromwell, N.Z.
IN the Estate of JAMES CHARLES
O’BRIEN (commonly known as James
Charles Bryant) late of Nukualofa Tonga
Hotelkeeper deceased Intestate. The NEXT
of KIN of the abovenamed deceased who
died at Auckland in the Dominion of New
Zealand on the ninth day of May 1911 but
who at the time of his death had his fixed
place of abode at Nukualofa aforesaid are re-
quested to communicate immediately with the
undersigned, L. INDERMAUR. S" i; citor and
Official Trustee of the Estate, Nukualofa,
Tonga, or his Agent, PERCY L. NOLAN,
Solicitor, 127 King Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Amusements.
Lyric and colonial, theatres,
Nos. 1 and 2, George Street, Sydney.
Direction J. D. Williams.
PERPETUAL MOTION from 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
PATRONISED BY 60,000 PEOPLE WEEKLY.
Run Under the Continuous Show System now the Rage
of England and America.
English and American Prices of Admission.
Same Prices at Each Theatre :
STALLS 3d. DRESS CIRCLE 6d.
ENTIRE CHANGE OF PROGRAMMES TWICE
WEEKLY : MONDAYS and THURSDAYS.
Afternoon Tea is Popular. Afternoon Pictures are the
Rage.
We Cater Specially for Ladies and Children During
Mornihg and Afternoon Sessions.
Ladies’ Retiring Rooms and Lady Attendants.
If it is to be seen anywhere you Will see it at our
THE W ORLD^IN MOTION.
We want you to compare our Programmes and our
Theatres with others which charge twice our prices of
Admission.
THE GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS
AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
INTERNATIONAL PICTURES. COLONIAL
Theatre Buildings, 610 George St., Sydney.
Mr. W. J. Morgan, General Manager.
This Company supplies the Lyric and Colonial Theatres
with all their photo plays, and also supplies the leading
photo play concerns throughout Australasia. In fact,
we supply more shows with pictures than any other
three (3) concerns combined.
Don’t forget, Mr. Showman, to write or call.
We have the money-getters. We do not represent any
one firm of photoplay manufacturers, but we represent
all the best. WE HAVE THOUSANDS OF EXCLUSIVE
SUBJECTS--EVERY ONE A WINNER.
Branches: Sutton Buildings, Melbourne; Courier Build-
ings, Brisbane ; Wellington, New Zealand; London,
England: Dewar House, Haymarket.
Just address your wire to “International Pictures.”
That’s sufficient.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager: J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
THE MELBA GRAND OPERA SEASON!
THURSDAY (21st). CARMEN.
miDAVtwnAJ MADAME BUTTERFLY (Matinee).
ukiday (^na;-^ LA BoHEME ( Even ing).
SATURDAY (23rd), CARMEN.
MONDAY (25th), LA BOHEME.
TUESDAY (26th). CARMEN.
WEDNESDAY (27th), JdADAME BUTTERFLY.
Box Plan at Paling’s.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Lessee & Manager .. J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd
THIS EVENING, AT 8 O’CLOCK,
The Brilliantly Successful MUSICAL PLAY,
A WALTZ DItE A M.
Specially Attractive Cast from
THE NEW COMIC OPERA COMPANY.
Box Plan"at Paling’s. Prices as usual.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee: FRANK MUSGROVE.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of THE WITNESS FOR
THE DEFENCE,
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 23,
ETHEL IRVING
AND HER ENTIRE LONDON COMPANY,
in W. Somerset Maughan’s Fascinating Comedv,
LALY FREDERICK.
Box Plan ELVY’S.
A DELPHI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction and Management. Gkorgk Marlow, Ltd.
Last TWO Nights of THE ANGEL OF HIS DREAMS.
SATURDAY NEXT, SEPTEMBER 23,
By Arrangement with Messrs. Clarke and Meynell,
Grand Revival of the Musical Dramatic Success,
THE FATAL WEDDING.
Brilliantly interpreted bv GEORGE MARLOW’S,
FAVORITE DRAMATIC COMBINATION.
Box Plan at Eivv-’s and White Rose Confectionery.
POPULAR PRICES—3s., 2s. & Is. Early Door, 6d. extra
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction ALLAN HAMILTON.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
PLIMMER-DENNISTON SEASON.
Brilliant Production of the Latest London Success,
NOBODY’S DAUGHTER.
A Play replete with Thrilling Human Interest,
Bv George Paston.
POPULAR PRICES.' Box Plan at Elvy’s.
-[-HE MUSICAL EVENT OF 1911-1912.
TOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
Direction of J. & N. Tait.
SATURDAY, TUESDAY, THURSDAY, SATURDAY,
SEPTEMBER 23, 26, 28, 30, and MONDAY, OCTOBER 2.
BEN DAVIES,
England’s Foremost Tenor,
and
ESTA D’ARGO (Miss Hetty Holroyd),
Sydney’s Celebrated Soprano,
Supported by EDWARD GOLL,
The Brilliant Viennese Pianist.
Accompanist : HAROLD WHITTLE.
PRICES 5/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/. Plans are now open at Nicholson’s.
National, amphitheatre. Sydney.
Soli' Proprietors—Brennan’s Amphitheatres, Limited
Governing Director —Mr. Janies Brennan.
THE BEST IN VAUDEVILLE.
EVERY EVENING. MATINEES WED. and SAT.
MAUDE MORTIMER, a Comedienne with a Voice.
JOHNSON and WELLS, American Colored Comedians.
Two Sons of Israel, JORDAN and HARVEY.
Last Nights JULES GARRISON and TWO ROMAN
MAIDS. WILL SULLIVAN, Lancashire Comedian.
LES PETITS TOTOS. MAURICE CHENOWETH.
GREAT DOUBLE COMPANY. POPULAR PRICES.
AMATEUR TRIAL NIGHTS, FRIDAY EVENINGS.
H E ALHAMBRA THEATRE,
Hay market, Sydney.
“The Drop off a George Street “The
Crowning Tram at Campbell Crowning
Glory of a Street. Glory of a
Woman is Woman is
Her Hair.” Direction Her Hair.”
E. J. KILPATRICK.
£4O IN PRIZES.
In order to give the Beautiful Hair of the
Ladies and Girls of Australia Proper Re-
cognition Throughout the World,
MR. E. J. KILPATRICK
announces a
“CROWNING GLORY” BIOGRAPH
COMPETITION.
“CROWNING GLORY” BIOGRAPH
COMPETITION.
£4O
£4O
£4O
WITH
AGGREGATE
PRIZES OF
£4O
£4O
£4O
FIRST PRIZE, £2O,
For the Finest All-around Head of Hair.
SECOND PRIZE, £lO,
For the Longest Head of Hair.
THIRD PRIZE, £5,
For the Best Dressed Head of Hair.
SPECIAL PRIZE, £5,
(Girls under 14 years),
For the Best All-around Head of Hair.
For all particulars regarding Entry
Blanks, etc., address: TPIE ALHAMBRA
THEATRE, SYDNEY.
SPECIAL NOTICE. —Any successful
competitor may have the privilege of wear-
ing a domino while being biographed.
THE LYCEUM..
—L EVERY EVENING AT S
Mati nek -Wednesdays Saturdays and Holidays at 230.
C PENCER'SUTf ATREJCOPE <?.
J PICTURES
HRE SUPERIOR TO .Eli. OTHERS. <•
Popular Prices —Plan at Palincd.
GLACIARICM
OYD N E Y
COLOSSAL PEOPLE’S ENTERTAINMENTS BY
WEST’S PICTURES, LTD.
“BEST OF ALL.”
FAMILY MATINEES—WEDNESDAY, 2.30.
DE GROEN’S VICE-REGAL ORCHESTRAS.
6d. to 2/- Plan at, Nicholson’s (No extra Fee).
THE VICTORIA, PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Direction FRANK MUSGROVE.
CONTINUOUS PHOTO-PLAY p l^.
COOL, COMFORTABLE, SLIDING ROOFS.
TO BE SEEN
“AT THE VICTORIA FIRST.”
ENTIRE CHANGE OF PROGRAMME TWICE
WEEKLY—MONDAYS and THURSDAY.
6d. and 3d. Chas. F. Jones, Manager.
IVOLI T H E A IRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietor & Manager—Mm. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS
CLARK and HAMILTON, Musical Comedy Artists.
HARRY ALLISTER, Character Impersonator.
McLALLEN & CARSON, Skaters & Novelty Dancers
CLARKE AND MOSTOL, Dancers Extraordinary.
FRED BLUETT. THE THREE STARRS.
THE BRIGHT SISTERS. VINCENT & SINCLAIR.
MAY LEWIS. IRVING SAYLES.
And a GREAT COMPANY of Established Favorites.
PRICES—3s., 2s. and Is. Plan at Paling's.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
SAM MAYO, Comedian.
BINNS and JSINNS, in Comedy and Music.
ALOIDE CAPITAINE, Lady Gymnast.
SAXONY’S CONTINENTAL DANCERS.
VICTOR, MARTIN, Juggler.
ALBERT REES, Drawing-room Entertainer.
Plan at Allan's. H3T PRICES—3s., 25., Is.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee : GEo. MARLOW LTD.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, Geo. Marlow presents
RANDOLPH BEDFORD’S STORY OF
REAL AUSTRALIA,
THE LADY of the PLUCK-UP
Prices as Usual.
Plan at Allan’s.
Amusements.
MELBOURNE REPERTORY THEATRE
Direction Grkgan McMahon.
AT THE
TURN VEREtN HALL. Victoria Parade.
MONDAY, SEPT. 2.1 \Bernard Shaw's, “CANDIDA,”
THURSDAY, SEPT. 28 / and Robin’s “MAKESHIFTS.”
MONDAY, OCT. 2 1 Geo. Calderon’s “THE FOUN-
THURSDAY, OCT. 5 } TAIN,” and de l’lsle Adams'
J “THE REVOLT.”
MONDAY, OCT. 9 IGranville Barker’s "THE
THURSDAY, OCT. 12 / VOYSEY INHERITANCE.”
BOX PLAN NOW at ALLAN’S.
SEASON TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES.
ATHENEUM HALL, MELBOURNE
Direction of J. & N. TAIT.
COMMENCING SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 23,
THE ACKNOWLEDGED EMPEROR OF MAGIC—
NICOLA! NICOLA!
AND HIS ORIGINAL AMERICAN COMPANY OF
SENSATIONAL MYSTIFIERS.
The Grandest and Most Artistic Production of the Age.
4/-, 3/-, 2/- and 1/- Matinees Wednesdays & Saturdays
|_| ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 23,
MR. H. B. IRVING and
MISS DOROTHEA BAIRD
THE LYONS MAIL.
Prices as Usual.
Plan at Allan’s.
THE KING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE..
sole Lessee and Manager : William Anderson.
AUSTRALIA’S FAVORITES,
MAGGIE MOORE and
H. R. ROBERTS in
STRUCK OIL.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
PRICES—3s.. 2s. and Is.
"J-HEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
A NOTABLE ATTRACTION.
Messrs. CLARKE and MEYNELL’S NEW
OPERA CO. in
THE CHOCOLATE SOLLIEII
Plan at Allan’s.
PRICES AS USUAL.
Olympia,
L '
OLYMPIA,
YMPIA. MELBOURNE
(Just across Princes Bridge).
SPENCER’S THEATRESCOPE CO.
Presenting the Unrivalled
SPENCER’S PICTURES.
POPULAR PRICES FOR PERFECT PICTURES
WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS at 2.30,
and EVERY EVENING at 8.
G LAC I A R I U M.
M
:LBO U R N
ICE SKATING
EVERY AFTERNOON and EVENING.
ADMISSION—AFTERNOONS, 2/-; CHILDREN, 1/-
EVENINGS, V-
%A/EST’S PALACE, MELBOURNE.
” BESI WEST'S PICTURES, the best
OF ALL. LIMITED. OF ALL.
Managing Director : Mu. T. J. West.
NIGHTLY AT 8.
Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdavs& All Holidays at -.30.
The Greatest Pictorial Enterprise in the World.
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
An v Moving Picture Worthy of Note always to be seen at
WEST’S PICTURES. Complete Change every week.
Prices —6d. to 2s. Box Plan at Glen s.
LYRIC THEATRE, Chapel St., Prahran, Vic.
EVERY NIGHT at 8. MATINEE, SATURDAY, at 2.30
THE FAMOUS “ NON-FLTCKER”
PHOTOPLAYS
on the Marvellous “Mack” Screen, together
Superb LYRIC ORCHESTRA. 6d. to 2s.
Allan's, C. M. Read’s and the Lyric Theatre
with the
Plans at
CafA
Ħ
GENIUS IN
LIGHTING.
The Atmoslite Air-Gas
Machines are made by
skilled workmen men
whose genius enables them
to produce a lighting sys-
tem that is unequalled.
Safe, efficient, automatic,
always ready for use, no
danger, no condensation,
results guaranteed. Inves-
tigate the Atmoslite. Send
post-card for catalogue
to-day.
BRANDT Bros., Ltd.,
LAM PH OUSE,
236 Pitt Street, Sydney,
ElizabethS^^ejbourrie
H
1?
\
©
CAPILLARINE
WILL GIVE YOU THE
MOUSTACHE YOU WISH FO3.
There is no longer any need for you to envy the moustache that anothei
man finds so easy to grow. CAPILLARINE will produce exactly the same on
your face, in a few months, at a small cost. Start using CAPILLARINE to-da\.
PRICE 10/6 a jar. Post Free to any address in the world.
The C. &A. Moustache Trainer shapes the moustache. Worn at night.
2/6, 3/6, S/6 each, Post Free.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
Established
30 Years.
Ĥ
Ħ
DINNEFORDSj
iONESIA
D INN E FORD’S
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see that
“Dinneford&Co.’
is on every bottle
and label.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
MAGNESIA
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The sort of coke that W. H. Wood has to
chew, these times, in the N.S.W. Assembly :
Mi\ Wood : In these days when hon. members are
removed from the Chamber for nothing, it is well that
hon. members should keep their proper places.
Mr. Speaker: Order!... The hon. member will
withdraw that statement.
Mr. Wood : I withdraw it. I
Mr. Speaker: The hon. member will say what
words he withdraws.
Mr. Wood: The words you asked me to withdraw.
Mr. Speaker: What are they?
Mr. Wood : Some remarks which I understand I
made with reference to persons being removed with-
out cause from the Chamber.
Later, Mr. Scobie took exception to some j
remarks of the Chronic Nark.
Mr. Speaker : The hon. member for Bega will
withdraw.
Mr. Wood : The words were not directed to any
individual hon. member.
Mr. Speaker : The words must certainly be with-
drawn. I
Mr. Wood : In deference to your ruling I will with-
draw those words. Is any other hon. member
offended ?
Mr. Speaker : Order! The hon. member will re-
sume his speech.
A few minutes later the brick came down
once more: —
Mr. Wood : It is something new in Parliamentary
practice that you cannot refer to the mover of a
motion without being interfered with by Mr.
Speaker.
Mr. Speaker: Will the hon. member withdraw
those words ?
Mr. Wood; Whibh words?
Mr. Speaker : The offensive words he used to Mr.
Speaker.
Mr. Wood : I should be glad to withdraw any
offensive remark I made about Mr. Speaker.
Mr. Speaker : The hon. member must withdraw
the words and apologise.
Mr. Wood (after further wriggle): If any words I
used were offensive to the chair, I withdraw them
unhesitatingly.
Mr. Speaker : And apologise.
Mr. Wood: And I apologise.
Half the chimney fell this time :
Mr, Speaker: And the lion, member for Bega made
a remark which 1 wish him to withdraw.
Mr. Wood : I have much pleasure in withdrawing
it.
Mr. Speaker: And the hon. member will apologise
to the House.
Mr. Wood: And I also apologise.
It hurts more than being thrown out by the
Corporal-at-Arms or the Pugnaci- Bo’sun,
or whatever the chucker-out is labelled.
The Petersburg Times (S.A.), in its
issue of 8/9/T1 commenced the leading
article in this wise :
On every hand in this town, to-day, there i? the
cry of the scarcity of homes, and unless something
is done to decrease the number of married people,
etc. ■
This is the town where Premier Verran re-
cently promised to build houses for the rail-
way employees, because rents were so high
that the tenant frequently fell off and broke
his neck.
There is a certain streak of humor about
the plaint of Perry, M.L.A.. who demands
£lOOO damages from N.S.W. Speaker Willis.
The legal document which he has served upon
Willis almost reads as if Perry had been
bitten by lions, or shoved into Gehenna. It
reads:—
For that the defendants assaulted and beat the
plaintiff, whereby the plaintiff suffered pain, of body
and mind, and sustained insult and injury, and was
otherwise damnified ; (2) and the plaintiff also sues
the defendants for that the defendants assaulted the
plaintiff and imprisoned him, and kept him in
prison, whereby the plaintiff suffered pain of body
and mind and sustained insult and injury, and was
otherwise DAMNIFIED. And the plaintiff claims
£lOOO.
Surely this “damn” business is not wholly
necessary.
A cry from Victoria: —
There is considerable flustration at present amongst
members of the State Government party in Victoria,
and there is going to be more as time goes on. The
date of the elections has got Acting-Premier Watt
into a first-class tangle. One section of the party
wants them held in November, when it is supposed
all the farmers will vote. Another section wants the
evil day postponed till the latest—-February next.
Both sections view the recent tremendous additions
to the rolls with misgiving. Even Witt’s own seat
is threatened. The old rolls made past general elec-
tions practically a ratepayers’ business. Ratepayers
were put oh the list without applying, while all
others had to register. The new lists were made up
by the police) and contain pretty well every name.
Labor, therefore, goes into the campaign with a light
heart. It is contesting every seat in the State; and,
while it feels certain that it will lose nothing, it has
big hopes of capturing more or less of Watt’s con-
stituencies. It may capture enough to upset the
Weary Government. Even Toorak is to have a Labor
candidate) and what will happen if this man Wins is
too horrible to contemplate. It makes the blood run
cold and the hair to stand up perpendicularly. /
Here is an advt. which calls for the ear-
nest attention of the Australian Govern-
ment :—-
A JAPANESE in good business, wants to corre-
spond with respectable young Woman, 25 to 30,
view to MATRIMONY. JAPANESE, .
Post Office, Haymarket.
When the Government has time to devise a
uniform marriage and divorce law for the
Commonwealth, it would do good business by
flatly prohibiting all local matrimonial in-
tentions, also intentions that are not matri-
monial, on the part of colored aliens. Mean-
while, just by way of something to go on
with, it might send along certain urgent in-
structions to the panjandrum in charge of
“Post Office, Haymarket.”
The magistrates around Richmond (Vic.) are a
queer lot. A caitiff, who pleaded guilty to having
mixed water with the Wolfe’s Schnapps, put forward
the remarkable excuse that he only sold the diluted
stuff in the threepenny bar. Whereupon the Bench
arose in violent indignation, and declared it was
scandalous that the noor man’s spirit should be
watered. In fact, it declared that the defence was
an aa-eravation of an offence for which the caitiff
was liable to a £5O fine and six months’ imprison-
ment. He had pleaded guilty to three charges, and
was liable to £l5O fine and much months’ jug, and
the Bench was determined to make an example—a
horrible example. And it did—of itself, for after
all this caustic talk it hit him with penalties and
costs that totalled only £2O ss. Bung will now
probably proceed to make up the money by selling
the mixture in the sixpenny bar.
“Comyn Havabiere”: Henry Burling, of
Waikanae, Maoriland, who has just passed
out at the alleged tonnage of 111 years, was
so wonderfully hale and hearty that I
have often speculated whether, by some
chance, there might not have been a miscal-
culation in his age. He had all his faculties
undimmed, and was assisting to sow grass
seed on the hills of Alfredton, in the
Wairarapa. when fie was IGO, taking the
lead with a heavy sack upon his shoulder,
and pausing, when he saw his great-grand-
sons lagging behind, to inquire when they
were going to get a move on. He was 40
when he arrived in Maoriland from Essex,
England, and was able to talk about hearing
the news of the burning of Moscow, and of
Napoleon’s defeat at Waterloo. Henry was
one of the first white settlers on the site of
the present town of Peatherston, and his,
descendants run to about 600.
One Whitsitt, a bolting Ministerialist in
the imitation-Parliament which plays with
Tasmanian affairs, has moved a comprehen-
sive no-confidence motion: “Tnat this Minis-
try is incapable of protecting, developing, or
managing the assets of the State. ’ There is
good, hearty condemnation in this variant
of the old formula.
“Waif”: Curtain-raisers are the rule in London
now, and I hope they always will be. Like the short
story, they give a young writer a show to develop
any talent he may have. Two recent curtain-raisers
were singular ; one had no women and the other had
no men. Is this the beginning of a new order of
things ?


Portia declares
that
VAN
HOIITENS
COCOA
IS
Delicious!
J))
Cheap
to use because
a little goes a long way.
Pure, Soluble, Easily Digested.
Ask your grocer for a gratis
Van Houten Novelty and a
free sample.
NViNonaw
S3OHS siooa anoA dOj
PASTE
In Black
or Brown.
“The World’s Boot Polish.”
r&ONMjy
PAStb
MADE. 5Y
E BROWN BSON
AT TAim MtLTfIWAN hLACAsMt MANUTACT»HY
T (.AWTICK s»‘T P LONDON W.C ,
Aut Be wee tv E.
(f!W
The be** and alio the cheapest Pe*te PolUh on
the market for cleaning, polithin* and pre-
• erving alt kind* of Leather Boot*. Shoe*, etc.
SOLD EVERYWHERE
t EROWN & SON, Ltd , LONDON, Eng.
BLOOD DISORDERS
H
Packets, 3d., 6d. and Is.
r°A,
Well, of course
Anything worth doing is
worth doing well —so for
the antiseptic cleansing your
teeth need every day, use
CALVERT’S
Carbolic Tooth Powder
-Local • Chemists and Stores seiiit.
F- C. Calvert & Co., Manchester, Eng,
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1549. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security ot Freehold or Leasehold
City or Suburban Properties, or or»
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaving
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors— The Hon. A. W. Meeks. M.L.C., Chairman : Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman : Benjamin
Short Esq. : The Hon. James Burns. M.L.C. : The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.: The Hon. F.E. Winchcombe, M.L.C.;
Adrian Knox, Esq.. K.C. General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece. F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. H. W. APPERLY, Secretaiy.
Ĥ
ROYAL
EXAMPLE
is a GUARANTEE for every purchaser of Phosferine that
the tonic is the very best obtainable, embodies the highest skill,
and being the most potent remedy, benefits everyone equally
with Royalty. The original and genuine preparation is spelt
PHOSFERINE
Honoured by
Commands from
The British
Royal Family
H.I.M. The
Empress of Russia
H.M. The
King of Greece
This world-renowned restorative medi-
cine has already for many years been
supplied by
ROYAL COMMANDS
To H.I.M. the Dowager Empress of
Russia
H.M. The Queen of Spain
H. 1.11. the Grand Duchess of Hesse
H.I.H. the Grand Duchess Olga of
Russia
And the Principle Royalty and
Aristocracy throughout the world
THE KING’S STATE
BARGEMASTER
Honoured by
Commands from
H.M. The
King of Spain
H.M. The Queen
of Roumania
The Imperial
Family of China
Mr. W. G. East, the King’s Bargemaster, writes: “Phosferine considerably increases one’s
powers of muscular endurance. Since taking Phosferine I have been free from Neuralgia and
Influenza, and have a better appetite and sleep well, and taking it all round I am sure I owe
it to Phosferine that I keep so well as I do ; Phosferine is the only tonic that agrees with me.
The Greatest of all Tonics
A PROVEN REMEDY FOR
Debility
Influenza
Indigestion
Sleeplessness
Exhaustion
Neuralgia
Maternity Weakness
Premature Decay
Mental Exhaustion
Loss of Appetite
Lassitude
Neuritis
Faintness
Brain-Fag
Anaemia
Backache
Rheumatism
Headache
Hysteria
Sciatica
and disorders consequent upon a reduced state of the neryous system.
SPECIAL WARNING
Insist upon having the original and genuine Phosferine (spelt
Phosferine) as supplied to Royalty, and prepared only by
Ashton & Parsons, Ltd., London. Similar names and styles are
deliberate attempts to deceive the purchaser, so do not be tricked
by appearance and sound into buying worthless imitations of
PHOSFERINE
The real Phosferine is the Royal Tonic, which fact assures
users that it is highly commended by the greatest living physicians.
Refuse all imitations under names that may be confused with
the original and genuine Phosferine, prepared only by
ASHTON & PARSONS, LTD., LONDON*
The 2/6 size contains nearly four times the 1/- size.
5
Prizes Value
£,3000
8-HOUR
ART UNION
and SPORTS
(Under sanction of the Attorney-General). Drawn October 28,1911.
Ist Prize, value £650. 2nd Prize, value £350.
3rd Prize, value £2OO. And 347 other Valuable Prizes.
The First Prize last year was won by Mrs. D. Owen, Bulli, N.S.W.,
for the modest outlay of ONE SHILLING.
GET A TICKET AND HAVE A CHANCE FOR 1911.
Results of Drawing- will be advertised in this paper on November 2.
To any person forwarding stamped addressed envelope, a list of
the results will be posted. Tickets may be had from Agents in all
towns, or direct from
JOHN W. DOYLE, Secretary, Trades-Hall, Sydney.
THROW AWAY YOUR PIPE
and
SMOKE MY CIGARS
S’*
m
autw,
I’VE knocked around a bit over Australasia in
my time—been in the back parts of pretty
well every State and New Zealand.
I’ve mixed with shearers and musterers and
rouseabouts at different sheds; been at cattle
camps in Queensland; up among the snow
country of Monaro' in the jarrah forests of
Westralia; in mining camps all over the Com-
monwealth; and everywhere I ve seen the boys
smoking their pipes—and seldom a sign of a
Cigar.
Then, I’ve pulled out my case and handed
some DIADEMAS around. And after all this,
people say to me—“ Oh, Australians won’t smoke
Cigars!”
Ħ
H
I do just get riled when I
hear this, I tell you that
nearly every pipe-smoker,
once he gets the taste of iny
DIADEMAS Cigars, swears
by them. They knock pipe-
smoking hollow!
There’s nothing but To-
bacco in them —and the best
Cigar Tobacco that is grown
—the wrapper, finest Java
leaf; and the inside filling,
all clean, straight, long Brazil.
They draw easily and burn
freely, for they are hand-
rolled by as good Cigar-
makers as there are any-
where in the world.
The boys out-back I’ve
given them to, as I said, just
swear by my Cigars, Men
in the Cigar trade here, too
—men with whom Cigar-
smoking is a life habit—come
to me and say—“ Look here,
those Cigars of yours are
better than any we can get
in the city. Let us have a
box as a favor.”
Now, I want you to try
my Cigars —at my ex-
pense.
I want to convert you from
the pipe to Cigars—to my
Cigars. All I want isfor you
to buy my Cigars as against
your pipe and favorite to-
bacco —and I know you'll be
a regular customer of mine.
I'll post a box of ioo DIADEMAS right to
your address for 22/6. Smoke 5 or 6of them,
and if they're not as good as the best 6d. Cigar
you can buy send the rest of the Cigars back,
and I’ll return every penny of your money. I'll
make no deduction for the Cigars you’ve smoked
There’s no funny business about this offer,
mind. I'll keep to every word of it, and there’ll
be no “back answers” if you want your money
back. If you want to know the kind of man
you’re dealing with, write to the General
Manager, the Commercial Bank, Melbourne,
and he’ll tell you I’m a clean, straight chap in all
my dealings.
Send 22/6 to-day, and get the box of 100
DIADEMAS by return post. In ordering, say
whether you like the mild, medium, or strong
grade.
My Only Address is
LOUIS KAUFFMANN
34 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE
Illustrated Descriptive Booklet will be
Mailed Free to any address.
flinging for Moren
\\ a
m
/A
Birds
Custard
stands alone in its absolute
purity, delicious flavor and
rich, egg like creaminess.
Has stood the test of time
L Over 70 years * success . A


ii
SURE CATCH” is Undoubtedly THE Fishing Tackle to Use
“ SURE CATCH ” is the Tackle of DISTINCTION, QUALITY and RENOWN.
It is used by the Most Prominent Anglers
It has stood the Test for Years, thus Proving its ABSOLUTE RELIABILITY,
of the day, and CANNOT BE EXCELLED.
“BIG FISH” TACKLE SPECIALITIES.
RODS.
Extra Ouality Spltt Cane Rods, 2 joints, 2 tops, steel centre, double-
handed cork srrip, strong porcelain rod and end rings, best bronzed
suction ferrules, double brazed, highly finished. Excellent value. A
perfect “ Big Fish ” Rod. 7£ feet, 57/6 each ; 8£ feet, 62/6 each.
Rod A —Very Superior “Big Fish” Rod, made of mottled cane, 3
joints, 2 greenheart tops, one top spliced with whalebone and fitted
with pulley end ring, double swelled grip, hardened snake r ' n^ s >
solid winch fittings, extra strong ferrules, double brazed and rubber
button. This rod has been made to our own special instructions.
9 feet, 35/= each ; 10 feet, 37/6 each.
Rod B—The “ Queensland ” Rod, 9£ feet, 4 joints, 2 tops, made of
best seasoned greenheart, lock joints, double brazed, porcelain
bridge and end rings, hardened snake rings, and rubber button,
30/- each.
For EXCELLENCE and STERLING WORTH “ SURE CATCH ” Fishing
Tackle is ABSOLUTELY UNRIVALLED, as IS TESTIFIED by the EVER
INCREASING CROWD of SATISFIED and APPRECIATIVE ANGLERS
from near and far.
REELS.
No. 3C—Nottingham Wood Reels, aluminium lining and flange,
solid brass star back, movable check, very strong: line guard. A
perfect reel for “ Big Fish.” 5 inch, 22/6 ; 6 inch, 27/6 ;6£ inch,
30/- each.
REELS (continued).
No. s—The New “ Lockfast ” Tension Big Fish Reels, aluminium
lining and flange, solid brass star back, Wtional check brass
handle plates. A splendid reel. 4 inch, 18/6; 5 inch, 20/-,
No. ** 16—Finest Quality Metal “Big Fish” Reels, nickel-plated
rims and bars, mutiplying action, leather thumb brake for checking
speed, steel pivots, optional check, interleaved wlth
which greatlv strengthens the reel and reduces the weig t,
3A inch, 35/- ; 4 inch, 45/-
The MORE CRITICAL the ANGLER, the MORE EMPHATIC is HIS
APPRECIATION of “SURE CATCH” FISHING TACKLE. THE
TACKLE that CANNOT BE SURPASSED.
Sizes-
SPINNING BAITS.
M.S. Perfect Spinners, a splendid spinner for all game fish.
3* inch, 3/3 each; 4 inch, 3/9 each. . ,
No. 23—M.S. Paragon Spinners, made specially to our own order,
and can he had in the following sizes : 3 inch, 2/6; inch, a/- ;
4 inch, 3/6 ; 5 inch, 4/6 each.
No. 3—Extra Heavy Spoon Baits, scaled back, red inside, mounted
with extra strong' swivels, split ring's, and treble hooks. An excel-
lent bait. 3 inch, 2/-; 3&inch.3/; 4 inch, 3/6 each.
No. 4—Best Quality Ring-mounted Devon Baits, xx heavy and
verv strong:: specially made for Big: Fish.
y 3 inch, 2/9*; 3J inch, 3/3; 4 inch, 3/9 each.
We hold the foremost reputation for all Angling Requisites.
Give us a Trial and be Convinced.
WIRE. TRACES.
“Tiger” Traces, made from hand-twisted, flexible steel wire. A Trace
of enormous strength. Size X, 1/9 each; Size Y, 2/3 each.
No. I—Steel Wire Traces, 1£ yards long, 9d. each.
No. 2—“ Hercules ” Big Fish Wire Qlmp Traces, extra special
quality, 1 yard, 9d. ; lj yards long, 1/3 each.
LINES.
The “ Zenith ” Plaited Flax Lines, made from best quality material,
and are splendid lines for all “ Big Fish.” To be had in lengths of
100 and 200 vards. No. 3, 6/6 ; No. 2, 6/9 ; No. 1, 7/-.
No. l/o, 7/6 ; No. 2/o, 8/. per 100 yards.
CUT THIS OUT.
FILL IN THIS COUPON with your name and address, and
we will fonvard you by RETURN OF POST a copy of our
AUSTRALASIAN FISHING TACKLE CATALOGUE, the
BEST AND LARGEST TACKLE LIST EVER PUBLISHED.
The talk of the Angling world. Full of useful information.
Name
Address
Bulletin
MICK SIMMONS LTD.,
The Largest and Most Progressive Fishing Tackle House.”
Head Depot—
Haymarket, Sydney, N.S.W.
Schute, Bell & Go.
LIMITED,
WOOL and PRODUCE BROKERS,
44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
WOOL STORES Harris Street, Pyrmont.
Sell on Commission only.
New and thoroughly up-to-
date Stores. Inspection
invited. Personal atten-
tion a feature of the
business.
A Steadily growing com-
pany.
PRODUCE STORES—Athlone Place.
Peter Pen looks at it —Writing all the time
“ He never stops to dip at all—just goes on
writing, writing all the time.
“ Never a splutter—never a scratch —never a
blot. An even flow as the words go down.
•• And when his pen is empty —it fills itself in a flssh without filler
or bulb squirt. „ . .
•That's the British made Onoto m action. Now what about the
Onoto at rest. . . . ,
-It never leaks-it's made so that it can't. It is always ready to
write—no • shake, shake, shake ' before the ink will flow
'* Ob yee, you ought to have the
H
Onoto
Fen
Self-Filling - •
WJ> , Safety Fountain
Price 10/6 and upwards of alTstationerg
jewellers and stores.
Booklet about the Onoto Pen free from
Thos. De La Rue & Co.. Ltd..
167, Bunhill Row, London, E.C.
or Australasian Representatives.
Norman Baker & Longhurst,
50 York St., Sydney. N.S.\Y
IMPORTANT.—For those who require a larger
‘ Pen with a very flexible nib, a special model—
the new ** O haa been put on the market
It la exceptional value for the money Try.
this new ~ O " at your ata ioners.
0.
v't „ _***
*Beetkcim,\s
Is the most periect Preservative -for the Skin
and Complexion. Invaluable for the SKIN
in HOT or COLD Climates, removing: all
ROUGHNESS, IRRITATION and TAN
COOLING! AND REFRESHING TO THE SKIN, KEEPING IT SOFT
AS VELVET ALL THE YEAR ROUND. VERY SOOTHING IF
APPLIED AFTER SHAVING
M. BEETHAM & SON, CHELTENHAM, ENGLAND
,
Wm
50,000 WATCHES
TO BE SENT OUT.
Deposit
2J6
Deposit
Qent.’s Solid Silver Keyless full capped Hunting
Lever Watch, jewelled movement, guaranteed 10
years. Just as an advertisement, we send this
watch to any address in Australia on receipt of 2/6
deposit, and upon the payment of the last of 17
weekly instalments of 1/- each, making a total of
19/6 In all, a handsome gold-cased chain Is
GIVEN FREE.
If not satisfied that any watch we supply is worth double
the price we ask, send it hack, and we will refund every
penny you have paid. Send 2/6 to-day, keeping the
number of your P.N. ; postage 4d. extra.
NORMAN FRANK <& CO.
Mall Order
Department.
Cl, 117 Pitt Street, Sydney, n.s.w.
Bankers—Commercial Banking Co., Sydney.
Ĥ
JUST AS AN ADVERTISEMENT!
5/- Deposit, 216 Per Week.
A 7 °|- SU JK 501-
Sent (Post Paid) to Your Door.
Send us your name and address, and we will forward you free patterns
of our 50/-Suits and Fashion Plates. You will be delighted with
what we send, and you need not return the samples even if you do not
order a suit.
NORMAN FRANK & CO.,
Dept. Cl, 117 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Bankers: The Commercial Banking Co., Sydney.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
graving's, new 190 S edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 6d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
op Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thdrston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Up-to-
date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter. Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle op the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth, 1/6.
Joys op Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Quadrille Call Book,
2s. Adventures of a Flirt, Is. 3d. Parlor Tricks
and Games, Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
ls2d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ G uide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is 2d post.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 13s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, os. Not Guilty (Blatch-
fnrd), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain for the
British, 6d. How to Read Faces. Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d Theory of Value, Is 6d. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Quef.n Elizabeth, ls6d,
H
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE*
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH.-*!
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblkrs’ Skcrets and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Plat Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made E.\sy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d.
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougall Topped the Score, &
Other. Verses, Is 3d. The Gay Count, Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
ot.h rs, all at 2s 6d each posted. Lee’s Priceless
Recipes, 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The VVaybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying- more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. 30- Established 25 years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT.
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
remit in stamps, money order, or
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
vNY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Ur, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, la
posted. New Tiucks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
1?. Old Busii Songs, Is 3d post. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s od.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made East, is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions of the Ring.
Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. (id. Secret
History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is -d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to an
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s ™i post.
INGERSOLL’S WORKS, Bd, 2S. HOW TO READ HEADS
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevassk’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. ■
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each P osle ~
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy. Is post.
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness a.
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large -
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 lllus., le
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay a 8
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. h -
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. , Moore s Univb
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pa?e s >,
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyanck.
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and m “’ 10
plete), is 6d posted. The Age of Reason bj' Ri-
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DA


STOMACH TROUBLE
A Carrier’s Suffering from Nausea, Belching, Heartburn,
Headache, etc.—The Penalty of Rough Living.
t i
«| \
Bull)
Mr. James Green, a carrier, of St. George,
via Dailey, Queensland, tells of his suffering
from terrible stomach trouble, and his
cure by the great standard remedy, Bile
Beans, for the benefit of fellow sufferers,
as follows: —“Being a resident of the
bush,” says Mr. Green, “and following
the occupation of a carrier, I have often
been forced to camp under my waggon, and
live on hard fare such as corned beef, soda
bread, etc., and this, combined with the
scarcity of green vegetables, had the effect
of upsetting my stomach. In addition to
this, and to make matters worse, I was
particularly partial to strong tea, and
the inevitable result was bad digestion, which
greatly played up with my health. My sleep
became disturbed, and I was troubled with
nausea, heartburn, wind, belching, occasional
headaches, poor appetite, fulness after
meals, and constipation. Knowing Bile
Beans to be the standard remedy for alltliese
ailments, I procured a box, and they proved
an efficient remedy—toning up my stomach
and system, cleansing the bowels, and giving
me immediate relief. The wind, nausea, headache, and other nasty symp-
toms from which I suffered, have entirely left me, my freedom from which is
solely due to Bile Beans. Bile Beans are a handy, useful medicine for those
of my vocation to carry about, as they take up little room, and are easy to take.”
WHY BILE BEANS EXCEL
Bile Beans for Biliousness are the product of a modern scientific research, and
therefore thoroughly up-to-date. They do not merely purge, giving temporary relief only
and leaving the patient weakened, like the out-of-date so-called remedies of 40 or 50
years ago. Bile Beans prompt the liver and digestive organs to act in Nature’s normal
way. They produce a gentle action on the bowels, curing or preventing constipation,
cleansing the stomach, and ridding the system of all impurities. One Bile Bean is
one dose. They can be discontinued after the cure is effected ; they are purely vegetable ;
they do not contain any harmful drugs ; and they are the standard family medicine.
Bile Beans are a
PROVED cure for bilious-
ness, headache, indiges-
tion, constipation, piles,
debility, bad blood, bad
breath, loss of appetite,
and all ailments that
owe their origin to
defective liver action.
Obtainable from all
chemists and stores at
1/1J and 2/9 per box
(containing three times
l/14).
mi.
cans
'i
tQH
Ua
THE
QUESTION of the DAY.
The question of to-day,
of to-morrow and of
every succeeding day is
HAVE- YOU USED PEARS* SOAP ?
If you Have not, you Have not
done your duty by your sKin and
complexion. If, on tHe otHer Hand
tHat is, on hotH Hands, and on tHe
face, and on tHe skin generally—you
HAVE used PEARS, you can feel
Happy, for you will Have done tHe
best tHat possibly can be done tor
tHe skin’s HealtH and beauty. There
can be no question about tHat*
PEARS Has been making beautiful
complexions for nearly 120 years*
PEARS
Matchless for the Complexion.
The Battle of the Years.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Australia’s compulsory army of scraps and infants
conies into official existence. . . . Until 1915 this
country will have really no military defence. — The
Bulletin.
PERSIAN, Saracen, Tartar, Turk,
Trampling elephants, gleaming
spears—
* >ut of the East to the vultures’ feast
They pour at the call of the years.
Marathon, Chftlons, Xeres, Tours —
Backward and forward the battle swings—
Red-handed fate at Australia’s gate
The gage of our testing flings.
North, that was East in the days gone by.
Grappling to hold a world in thrall —
Earth blossomed red at Attila’s tread
As it flames at the Mongol’s call.
Horns of doom that the Old World blew,
Shrilling the air with a wilder breath,
Banners astream where the new fields gleam
With their call to the old, fierce death.
Persian, Saracen, Tartar, Turk,
Pointing with hate the Asian spears—
The soul of the East to the vultures’ feast
Pours at the call of the years.
Spartan, Roman, Vandal, Goth-
Hope of a stern white world at bay—
The strong dead share in Australian air
The tempest that wakes to-day.
Emptied are all the heavens and hells
At the blast of the years’ fierce trumpet
blown—
Oh, dark and red are the winds they tread
Where the war-slain aid their own.
Reels to the thunder the White Man’s flag,
Rolls to the tumult the surge of doom—
Oh, empty hand in the White Man’s land,
Choose you the sword or tomh.
N.S.W.
D.M.W.
The Shepherd Kings of Canter-
bury.
THE TWILIGHT OF THE QUEENS.
[For The Bulletin.]
IT was the afternoon they buried Squat-
ter Hornsby in Esmeralda Cemetery,
and as the Yeomanry filed down the
hill, and the last strains of their bugles
floated up from the long white bridge across
the Orari, I wandered through the garden-
like cemetery with Forrester. He knew all
the tombstones in the place, and the life
stories of those who slept beneath, and he
told their histories in brief, till at last we
came to a plain red marble slab, bearing
only the word “Nepenthe.” No name was
visible till Forrester drew back the creeper
that trailed across the slab, and pointed to
seven brief lines.
“This is the tomb of Squatter Monckton,
he who bought Magnolia Grange, and ush-
ered in the Twilight of the Queens,” he said,
seating himself on the edge of the great
block of marble.
“Tell me,” I said, as I lit up. And, after
a pause, he went on: —
“For the Shepherd Kings, the old order
commenced to change the morning that
Grey suddenly heaved up out of the ocean,
and fell on their rear in the Rangitata
Gorge, and hunted them across the burning
tussock to Rangihape Forest. But for the
Queens there was no real change till Monck-
ton suddenly ushered in the twilight. To
the Queens, Grey and the Central Parlia-
ment were merely figures of speech. In their
own sphere they were still supreme. When
they condescended to look upon those whom
it had pleased God to place in subjection
under them, it was the low-caste lover who
paid the bill. The worst that could happen
to a Shepherd Queen was to be compelled
to stand helplessly by while the man who
had won the dangerous gift of her favor was
shot down while resisting arrest for horse-
stealing or ‘disturbing the sheep.’ ‘Disturb-
ing the sheep,’ as a criminal offence, sounds
humorous; but it was a mighty serious
thing in Old Canterbury. Sometimes, of
course, the presumptuous groom, or what-
not, just vanished, and was supposed
to have been drowned crossing one of the
many rivers that lay across the road to
Otago and safety. Of course; if the robber
of a Queen’s affections was a brother squat-
ter, her men-folk let out the energy of their
hatred in the burning of grass or in a
straight-out fight. But no matter what she
might have done, no Shepherd Queen had
been hurled from her position till Monckton
took his revenge.
“A grim-looking, burly man. with a head
that was wide at the top and narrowed
down to a prominent chin, full red lips and
a shock of dark hair —that was Monckton.
Of the mind that looked out from under his
shaggy eyebrows his eyes gave no informa-
tion. And not till it was too late did Mrs.
Monckton discover how large a streak of the
wild beast her husband had in him.
"He bought Magnolia Grange when the
discovery of Squatter George’s body in one
of his own wool bales revived the memories of
Miss Spencer’s fall, and drove the family
out of the province. And to it he brought
a wife ot whom we knew nothing. Who she
was, where he got her, no one could tell.
But she was a fragile little thing of delicate
beauty ; restless, impulsive, always longing
a i f ar £ e J* outlook. Tied to a man like
Monckton, buried in the old homestead of
Magnolia Grange, she was like a bird in a
cage. r or Monckton hated society, and
would have none of it; and although lie al-
lowed his wife to attend the tennis tourna-
ments which were the social reunions of the
caste, he refused to allow her to give any at
the Grange. They disturbed him, and if he
was upset he disturbed the sheep—and that
was the final argument.
“Whether he loved his jumbucks or not
I cannot say. Certainly he spent all his
time among them, and his wite never saw
him except on Sundays between 8 a.m. and
5 p.m. She was thrown on her own re-
sources, and, somehow, the resources of a
childless woman too often lead to one goal
—illicit love.
“She tried many things gardening,
music, and then painting. The last held her
longest. Day after day she drove out in
search of compositions, and her only com-
panion was the elegant, gentlemanly groom
who drove her. He, too, it seemed, was by
way of being a painter; and art, opportun-
ity and environment were all against them.
Monckton insisted that she should always
take a maid or companion with her; and
she did. But Love laughs at chaperones.
“Discovery came when, by accident, she
chose as a painting ground a patch of cab-
bage-trees and wild convolvuli, which lay
right in Squatter Monckton’s homeward
road. The energetic man was making for
the dovecot early that afternoon, having
arrived at the conclusion that he left his
wife too much alone, and he arrived in time
to overhear part of a conversation which ex-
plained many things. With the grim face
of her employer menacing her, the little
maid turned King’s evidence, and in a
paroxysm of terror revealed everything she
knew. It was enough, too, and something
over. No one had previously dreamt how
much she knew.
“It was a weird party that drove back to
Magnolia Grange that afternoon. Arrived
there the terrified wife threw herself on a
couch and wept bitterly. Then she slipped
down to the squatter’s feet in dog-like hu-
mility, and clung to his leggings. That was
the wrong procedure with him. He ordered
her to go to her own apartments and stay
there till he decided what should be done to
her. .
“The groom, whose name was Duthie,
gave himself up for lost. He knew the his-
tory of Canterbury, and wondered how he
would meet his end. But, to his amazement,
Monckton took no notice of him. He was too
busy thinking about his own future. In half
an hour his mind was made up, and when
the trembling maid answered the bell, she
was astonished to find that the master was
apparently quite unruffled.
“Tell Mrs. —I mean your mistress, to pack
up. The waggonette will take her to the
Rose and Crown, at Esmeralda, in half an
hour.’
“On receipt of the message the lady of
Magnolia Grange crept forth and begged
not to be sent away from him. She would
be his slave, his dog, anything; only she
prayed not to be sent out into the world.
She w T as so helpless.
“ ‘I have determined to divorce you,' said
Monckton. ‘I have no doubt you will find
someone who will overlook the past. In
fact, I see no reason why the man for whom
you have thrown away your life should not
marry you. I am afraid I must ask you to
terminate this interview. Your carriage
leaves in 22 minutes.’
“When the sound of the carriage wheels
had died down, Monckton rang for the
groom. What passed between them no one
knows, but a good many have made a guess.
The groom went away alive and uninjured
and with his wages paid in full. So twice
in one day Monckton had broken all the tra-
ditions of his order.
“The divorce left Mrs. Monckton home-
less, friendless and penniless., And Duthie,
the groom, married her. He took her to
Christchurch, and set to work to keep her.
“But, meanwhile, squatter Monckton
brooded in loneliness at Magnolia Grange.
He was the first Shepherd King to be
divorced, and his peers avoided him as
though he had the plague.
"I suppose you’ve read your Bible in re the
worm that dieth not. Well, Monckton got
that worm —the largest size. It gnawed and
gnawed unceasingly. He took to drmk, and
made Magnolia Grange hideous. Tnen sud-
denly he straightened up, and set inquiry
agents to find out the whereabouts of Duthie
and his wife. He found Duthie, unable to
get regular work in the city, had gone back
to service on the stations, and was groom
and gardener at Ocean Caves.
“Two days later Monckton appeared at
Ocean Caves, and as he rode by he saw his
ex-wife hanging out some washing in a
little garden attached to a rose-covered cot-
tage. She was singing, and her voice floated
down to him on the wind, and he noted that
she was plumper and prettier than ever.
Monckton had only one serpent in his soul
when he entered the gates of Ocean Caves,
but by the time he arrived at the homestead
door he had seven hundred.
“Next morning he asked Morley how much
he would take for the place as it stood, lock,
stock and barrel. Morley, who was always ex-
travagant and in debt, named a fairly -exor-
bitant price, and Monckton promised to
give him a reply next day.
“Mrs. Morley, with a woman’s intuition,
grasped the reason for Monckton’s reckless
disregard of price, and, thinking it would be
a kindly action, she gave Mrs. Duthie w?arn-
ing of what w r as in the air. In terror, she
fled to Christchurch, and a week later her
husband followed her. Immediately Monck-
ton heard they had gone, he cried the sale
off, and forfeited a deposit of £lOO he had
paid down to secure first refusal.
"The station hand is useless in the city,
anu in a few r months Duthie and his wife
drifted again to Ocean Caves, after a period
of appalling poverty. For the first time in
her life Eunice Duthie had known what it
meant to be short of food ; and hunger drove
her husband back to the domains of the
Shepherd Kings.
“Monckton made no sign this time, but
presently one Dunstan, through the Imperial
Mortgage and Agency Co., offered £5OOO
more for the property than Morley had
demanded from Monckton. And Morley ac-
cepted, on the usual terms, that the depend-
ents were to be kept in their positions unless
they forfeited the protection of the clause
through bad conduct.
“Dunstan duly arrived and took charge.
As far as the hands were concerned there
was little change. The machine worked the
same as before, and out in the paddocks the
wool grew on the sheep without any appre-
ciable variation. All was peace.
“The new owner was unmarried. And
one evening Mrs. Duthie heard that the
housekeeper was considered inefficient, and
that the new proprietor wanted her to take
(Continued on next page. I


IF WOMEN ONLY KNEW
The Way to be Well is to Keep the Kidneys Well.
<v
N
r 6very
Picture
Tells
/l Story.”
What a lot of backache there is among the women. And
little wonder. A woman’s work, and care, and worry are enough
to break down a much stronger constitution than is given to most
women —or men, either, for the matter of that. The kidneys are
invariably the first to feel the strain. And they let their needs
be known, too, very promptly. Backache is the cry for help ; the
cry of the sick kidneys. There’s that awful dull ache away down
low in the back. Then comes sharp pains higher up, pains in
the limbs, headaches, a weary, never-rested feeling, a desire to
stay in bed in the morning—it’s all from the kidneys. Doans
Backache Kidney Pills help the kidneys, they are made specially
to act on the kidneys. Doan’s Pills cure to stay cured. Read
these testimonies :
Two Sydney Women Cured.
Mrs. T. Lewis, 156 Forbes Street, Sydney, says
“It is now seven years since Doan’s Backache
Pills cured me of backache, and I ain still well. I think
my lasting cure wonderful at my age—l am 81. Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills have proved a blessing to me in
my old age. A young lady who visits me suffered
with her back, .and I cured her with Doan’s Pills.
She is a great believer in this medicine now—the
same as I am.”
Mrs. P. J. English, 120 a Phillip Street, Sydney,
says “ About six years ago I commenced to suffer with
kidney disease ; at times I was so bad I had to take to my
bed. I used plasters, etc., trying for a cure, but nothing
did me any good. Hearing Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills spoken of as excellent for kidney trouble lead me
to try them. They completely cured me, and during,
the past three years I have been perfectly well.„ l ean
sincerely recommend other sufferers to use them.
H
DOAN'S
Backache
Kidney
RILLS.
At all Chemists and
Stores , 219 per bottle
(six bottles , /J'/j’.A or
from Foster-McClel-
lan Co" 6 Pitt
Street ,
the position. At the same time Duthie received
promotion. He was appointed foreman, which
was an unheard-of position. He was responsi-
ble for the proper maintenance of all fences,
water-troughs, pumps and tanks, and the
buildings on the two out-stations as well as
on the homestead. And such a wide area
did his duties extend over that he was glad
his wife was now in the house, for his ab-
sences often extended over two or three
days.
* * * *
“One night when her husband was away
Eunice took some needlework to the little
sitting-room which adjoined her bedroom.
And it was there Monckton found her.”
“And what happened?”
“No one ever told exactly what happened,
but you can form as many theories as you
like. Of course the station was really Monck-
ton’s, and Dunstan was out of the way that
night. And all the other servants were out
of the way. Anyhow Duthie came home,
and as he came up the stair to his wife’s
room Monckton came out and howled with
laughter in his face. Then Duthie attacked
his enemy with an axe, and Monckton shot
him in the leg. The police were sent for,
and Duthie was given in custody for at-
tempted murder.
“But he was never tried. lie was com-
mitted, certainly, but on the way to Christ-
church with two policemen, a party of horse-
men suddenly appeared, and rescued him.
They hid him for a couple of days in a camp
in an old river-bed. and told him that the
story had gone round. He was certain to
get 14 years, and the woman wasn’t worth
it. They said they came from Dunstan, who
sympathised with him, and who had sent
him the quarter’s wages due, and also £5O in
gold. Monckton, they said, held a mort-
gage over everything Dunstan had, and Dun-
stan dare not openly oppose him. And —
this was the point that, turned Duthie’s love
to hatred —they said that Mrs. Duthie had
gone back to Magnolia Grange with her
first husband. It was true enough. The
fact that she had done it as the price of
Duthie’s release was the part of the story
that remained untold.
“So Duthie set his horse’s head towards
the Ninety Mile Beach, and that was the
last Canterbury saw of him.”
“And what became of Monckton? Did he
marry her again?” I asked.
“No. He couldn’t for years; and when
he could he wouldn’t. I don’t think he ever
intended to —he alwavs swore he didn’t. She
remained his ‘housekeeper’ till she died.
And how the Shepherd Queens hated him for
it! It was an insult to their sex, and a
dreadful example to the Kings, who were
showing a beastly inclination to grow law’-
abiding. No Shepherd Queen of the old
type felt safe after the fall of Airs. Monck-
ton.”
“And for the man w r ho caused the fall —
what of him?”
“Oh. he made restitution,” said Forrester
grimly. “When she was dead lie felt he had
been something of a brute, and made a mar-
vellous atonement. Yes, he actually put a
clause in his wall that he was to be buried
in the same crave with her. And he was.
The scoundrel lies under this verv stone.”
C. A. JEFFRIES.
Interval for Refreshments.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ME —askin’ me for money!” wailed
Mrs. Kelly from the head of the stairs.
“I like that! How did I get the
last four shillings that come inter this house?
How did I get it, I say? I got it by goin’
down on me two knees an’ scrubbin’!
Kelly, moodily attentive in the kitchen,
was moved to reply. “Did you ever scrub
a floor standin’ up?” he yelled mockingly.
Any other woman but Mrs. Kelly would
have screamed or burst into tears. Mrs.
Kelly just went on with her dreary recita-
tive. “Why don't you go out an’ pretend to
look for work, instead of hangin’ round the
house an' askin’ me for the loan of two bob 1
You an’ your loans! Did you ever pay me
back a loan in your life? Why don' you go
out an’ gammon to look for work, you
loafer?” . „
"Oh, shut yer duck ouse ! roared Kelly.
A note of exultation crept into Mrs.
Kelly’s song of grief. She couldn’t see her
husband from her tower of darkness, and
this angry roar was the first sign he had
given that her barbed remarks were stinging
him. “Oh, you loafer!” she cried, and with
that introduction went carefully over his
lamentable record for the previous ten years.
Kelly, in his den, hunched liis shoulders
like a man in a hailstorm, and wondered
why Murphy had failed him. Murphy had
arranged to call for him that morning at 10
o’clock on his way to the wharf, where Flan-
igan was to be in waiting with the boat,
tackle, provisions and beer. It was to be a
glorious day, and when 10 o’clock came and
went, and Murphy failed to appear, Kelly had
fretted and fidgeted, and finally asked Mrs.
Kelly for a loan of two. shillings. Now, on
the previous day, Mrs. Kelly had found a
one-day gardening job for her husband, and
his point-blank refusal, at 8 o'clock, to go
and take it had wound her up to the exact,
pitch for one of her interminable stairhead
orations. It was now 10 minutes past 11 by the
kitchen clock —and Mrs. Kelly was' still
going. Kelly switched his attention on to
her again.
“. .. . And Lord only knows how I put up
with such a man, for / don’t! Asking me
for two bob as if they grew on trees, and I
had only to reach out and pick them for
meself! When did I ever spend two bob on
meself? Haven’t I been goin’ round for
months in a hat I got out of a dustbox, and
a dirty old skirt that was given me by a
woman who gave me dry bread to eat, and
had dyed hair herself, and wasn’t fit to
black my boots, supposin’ they was worth
blackin’, which they ain’t, and well I know
it!” I Triumphant pause.)
“Ah-h, shut up !” snarled Kelly under his
breath.
“What sort of a man d’yer call yerself?”
intoned Mrs. Kelly scornfully.. Without wait-
ing for an answer she went straight on. “Two
bob is nothin’ when yer borrer it; but you
go down on your two blessed knees and earn
it like / have to, an’ then see how, ready you’ll
be to lend it to some big loafer who wants to
buy beer with it, and will never pay you back
so long as he lives, an’ won’t go to jobs when
they’re found for him! Oh, you loafer!”
(Pause.)
Kelly looked round desperately. He felt
he couldn’t bear much more- of it. Usually
Mrs. Kelly’s abuse had about as mucfl effect
as water on a duck’s back, and he listened
with critical attention and a certain amount
of amusement; but to-day the keen disap-
pointment had put an edge on his nerves.
“I often wonder if you’ll ever work again !
Lord knows, I’ve done my best to get you
into the habit. I’ve showed you work, and got
you work —I’ve done everything but put the
shovel into your hand and work your arm
for you, and that I can’t do! I won’t go
and stand over you till you work to get rid
of me, for I’ve still got some self-respect
left, although you mightn’t think so. Then
if I left off work myself to keep you at it,
we’d both starve, for you’d spend what you
earned on beer, and you might die, and I’d
regret you all my life, though I don’t see
why I should, you having been a trouble and
a disgrace to me from the end of the honey-
moon, which was paid for out of my
earnings, which shows what sort of man you
are, and always were, ever since you were
born!” (Pause.)
Kelly had never left in the middle of a
speech' before. But this time, acting on a
sudden furious impulse, he seized his hat and
tiptoed out through the open kitchen door.
As he stepped across the threshold, he
caught the introductory words of a second
blast: “There’s not as many two bobs in
this here world as you might think if you
hadn't ever gone out scrubbin’ on your two
blessed knees, and been given dry bread
and an old skirt by a woman”
Kelly, thrilling with joy, stepped lightly
down the yard, opened the gate, and walked
out into the peaceful, sunlit world. He looked
guiltily back at the slate roof of their home,
pictured Mrs. Kelly wailing at nothing, and,
with a giggle, made for the corner pub. He
had sixpence somewhere in the depths of his
trouser pocket.
He found Martin, Joe Hardwick and a
jovial soul in the threepenny bar, having
drinks at the jovial one’s expense. He was
immediately introduced to the jovial soul,
who insisted that he should join in. Kelly
made no resistance. In company with the
others, he had three successive drinks at
brief intervals. Then there was a lull in
the liquid part of the celebration, and they
started to pass the time with argument, gos-
sip and prevarication. After half an hour
of this, the impromptu function started to
go flat. In the midst of a conversational
calm, Martin remembered something. “Hey,
Kelly!” he said. “Murphy was lookin’ for
you this mornin’.”
“ ’Bout what time?” asked Kelly anxiously.
“ ’Bout ’arf pars’ 9,” interrupted Hard-
wick. “I think he said he was goin’ up t’
leave a message with yer missus.”
“Did he tell yer what th’ message was?”
Hardwick pushed his hat back and
scratched his temple thoughtfully. “Well,
he did, but I fergit exactly what it was now.
Somethin’ about somethin’, and you was to
meet him somewhere this afternoon, I think. '
“1 better go home and ask th’ missus,”
said Kelly hastily.
Kelly walked back as fast as he could ;
but he heard the kitchen clock strike 12 —in
long rasping strokes —as he tiptoed in through
the kitchen door. He had been away three-
quarters of an hour. Had she stopped alto-
gether? He , laid his hat gently on the
dresser, and listened with his head on one
side. No, she hadn’t!
“.. . Twelve o’clock this blessed day, and
there you sit too lazy either to work or go
fishing, though your drunken companions
have found the bait, the boat and the drink!
Too lazy to stand on your feet and draw
your breath! If you won’t work, why, in
Heaven’s name, won’t you go fishing?”
“What are yer talkin' about?” shouted
Kelly. So she had delivered the message
which she had suppressed earlier in the
morning!
The weary voice went straight on: “Drink,
bait and boat found for you, yet there you
sit, too lazy to shift your big feet and go
down to the wharf.”
Kelly tip-toed half-way up the passage to-
wards the foot of the stairs. “Why didn’t
y o u give me Murphy’s message this mornin’,
y 0U ?”
“Because I wanted you to go to work, you
loafer. But now I find you won’t go, so
j’ ve g, ve you message, and may you go
w itli all speed is the only thing I'm wishin’
this minute! Why don’t you go, Kelly?”
“Tell me again!” he implored.
Mrs. Kelly took it as a gibe. In her even,
mour nful monotone she retorted wearily: “1
w in not, for I’ve wasted too much breath on
you u | read}' that I need for scrubbin’. You
j^ now W ell where and when they want you to
t ~ tll t »
«j don < t }<>
“Yet you won’t stir out of the place;
though I never knew you to be so lazy that
you wouldn’t go out for a day’s sport at
somebody vise’s expense. What has come
•’ TC ,Tf vnll j.. n u i inrrv
ton Yon know that - vet there
you 11 be too late, lou know that, yet then
y° n SI J as no one had invited you out, to
squander your time drinkin beer and pre-
cat<’h fish, though Lord knows its
>L le you ever brought into this house!
Mhv don’t you go? (Pause.)
t Kelly, almost frantic with anxiety, de-
termined on a iiontal attack. He stumbled
to the foot of the stairs, and, facing the
tragic, dishevelled figure of Ins wife, told
her the plain truth Look here! Where
and when have I got to meet Murphy. 1
didn’t hear you just now. :
Mrs. Kelly, from her eminence, looked him
squarely in the face. “Liar!” she said
coldly.
Kelly made a mental note of the insult
and let it pass—for the present. The min-
utes were flying, and with them the chance
0 f catching the fishing party. His wife must
be convinced that he hadn't heard her.
There was only one way to do it. In an
unmistakably earnest manner, he presented
h e r with the cold truth. “Honist, I didn’t
hear yer! I've been out for tli' last three-
quarters of an hour!"
“Out!" screamed Mrs. Kelly like a she-
flelH] “Out!! Me wastin’ me breath here
an> vou OM *;..Oh, you BEAST, not to stay
aQ , - ]isten to me t Ah-h-h-h !” The harsh
scream of rage rang through Kelly’s head
anc j j le was aW are of hysterical stamping.
Finally came the deafening slam of an up-
stairs door, and more screams of rage —
>»f«! tbi. dmc, Vat still very terrible.
wiS MS
had lost the thiead of the plot by prolonging
the interval.
KODAK.


W estinghouse
Oil Engine
For STATIONARY
and MARINE
PURPOSES
No
Carburetter
or
Vaporiser.
H
No
Ignition
Apparatus.
makes the following claims upon your attention
1— It uses cheap lamp oil (such as kerosene), and other residuals.
2 The oil is injected directly into the cylinder, thus dispensing with unre-
liable and inefficient vaporisers.
3 It js very simple in construction, there being no electric ignition or other
complicated mechanism.
4 Its speeds are such that electric generators and centrifugal pumps may
be coupled direct.
5 No skilled labor is required, the * supply of fuel and lubricant being all
the attention necessary.
FULL PARTICULARS FROM
The Westinghouse Brake Company of Australasia Ltd.,
14 MARTIN PLACE., SYDNEY.
Queensland Agents: Holmes & Church, Brisbane.
rats
MADE in slb. and 61b. weights; in sizes 2g"x 54", and 4" x 64" :
with a 330, 500 and 575 wattage. Prices 25/-, respectively.
It has a pressed steel tup, metal covered plug—easyto re-
move a glittering mirror finish—and, over all, our guarantee,
-t horoughly efficient for both light and heavy work ; simple, yet
strong; clean, handy and inexpensive. Can also be supplied in
larger sizes for Laundries and Tailors up to 30ib.
FURTHER PARTICULARS ON APPLICATION TO
atest Standard HOT POINT
ELECTRIC IRON. Instantly
connected. Hot Iron and
Cool Handle.
W. G. WATSON & CO., Limited,
CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
THE LARGEST PLANT—WELL ORGANISED !
In every phase of removal and carrying work, we are experts.
We have spacious storage accommodation, larse vans, and small carts
• manned by experienced men. We cm save YOU time, trduble and
money. May we send you a quote ? ’Phone City 1290. '‘ " -
SANDERS, SUTTON & WHITEHEAD LTD.,
Removal, Storage and Carrying Experts,
HEAD OFFICE— 43 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
DEPOTS: Chatswood, Mosman, Waver! ey. Burwood, Dulwich Hill
Kogarah, Parramatta and Manly.
FARMER’S
FRIEND ...
GUARANTEED TWO YEARS.
OIL ENGINE
Ĥ
This is our
4-h.p. Portable
Wood Saw
Outfit.
WE ARE THE ONLY FIRM ADVERTISING
OUR PRICES OPENLY.
Don’t be misled by competitors who offer “lowest prices and long terms.”
No one can sell an engine of equal quality under DOUBLE OUR PRICES.
Get their prices and compare them with ours. We have an immense
sale, and this allows of small profits on our big turnover.
Ħ
All complete, with Tanks and Pipes, f.o.b.
Sydney. You have no fittings to buy—
Everything is supplied by us.
Small Deposit.
Long Terms.
Write lor Catalogues and full particulars of All Kinds of Oil Engines,
Pumping, Chaffcutting, and all other Classes of Machinery.
PARTRIDGE & HODGSON,
ast,« YORK STREET. SYDNEY; 339 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
STORTEB written in Australia
appear in The Lone Hand each month.
Price sixpence. . ,
TH READING. The new
to the new fiction appears in each
’ Lone Hand.
As A Family Medicine
nothing has yet been put before the public to be compared with Beecham’s
Pills. For over half a century this medicine has been an easy First Favourite
in countless households, and the name and fame of Beecham’s Pills have
spread all over the world. The reason for the enormous popularity of this
remedy is not far to seek. Experience has shown that there is nothing better
for derangements of the stomach and digestive organs generally. Taken in
accordance with directions, Beecham’s Pills give quick relief, stimulate the
organs to healthy action and have a tonic effect upon the whole system
They are compounded of the best and purest ingredients and there are very
few people who would not feel better for an occasional dose of
Beecbam’s Pills
If you have not tried them and have any doubt as to their real value and
efficacy, get a box and judge for yourself. You will find Beecham’s Pills a
valuable aperient and unequalled in regulating the stomach, bowels, liver,
and kidneys, and restoring the powers of digestion. A periodical dose will
enable you to keep well and “fit,” ready for work or play. By eliminating
impurities from the system, Beecham’s Pills increase the appetite, promote
assimilation of food and establish good health. No household should ever
be without a box. Many thousands have proved the worth of Beecham’s Pills
and there is no doubt at all that they
Arc Tbe Favourite Remedy.
BUSINESS MEN and OTHERS in need of FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE
SHOULD CONSULT
CITY FINANCE COMPANY LIMITED,
Palmer's Chambers, 289 Pitt St., Sydney,
who LEND MONEY on any REASONABLE SECURITY
from 10 PER CENT, per annum. frhd! mcWILLIam, Manager.
D
<5
r
W-
-1
Tie
Good
IN
HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE
The Grandest Remedy for
COUGHS and COLDS
A dose or two is generally sufficient
KEEP A BOTTLE IN THE HOUSE
SOLD by all CHEMISTS and STORES
The 'Household Disinfectant
Carbolacene
Cleanses and Disinfects in One Act
Instantly Destroys all Germs.
Sold Everywhere. Pint Bottles,
l y 3


ARCHITECTS specify
Mack Partitions
and have a Fire-Proof,
Sound-Proof
and Vermin-Proof
DIVIDING WALL.
Write for our Catalogue, or call and inspect.
MACK LTD.,
Royal Insurance Buildings,
Cor. PITT and SPRING STREETS, SYDNEY.
Melbourne Office: 19 Queen Street.
ELECTROMOTORS LIMITED
Manchester.
COMPLETE INSTALLATIONS of ELECTRIC POWER
PLANTS IN WORKS, MILLS and FACTORIES.
Queensland Government Printing Office equipped with 58 of otir Motors.
Australasian Agency:
T. K. STEANES, 39 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. [8
Fireproof buildings of
Fibro-Cment (Asbestos) Sheets
at the cost of Weatherboards.
Suitable for Dwelling's, Theatres, Halls,
Warehouses, etc.
Timber is dear, so is labor. You only require about
three-fourths the quantity of studding: and labor for a
building of Fibro-Cemenc.
LOOK AT THE SAVING THAT IS MADE.
Fibro-Cement is made of best Portland cement reinforced
with Asbestos.
FIRE, HEAT, ROT and ANT PROOF.
Easily erected by ordinary carpenter. Outlasts timber,
iron, or lath and plaster.
CONSTANTLY IMPROVES WITH LAPSE OF TIME.
Supplied also in Slates for roofing.
Write for Lithos and Catalog L to solo Importers—
JAMES HARDIE & CO.,
Circular Quay West, Sydney.
WOLFE’S
* %
The Family Stimulant.
FOR MEN
FOR WOMEN
SCHNAPPS
Motor Drivea
‘BON ACCORD'
STEEL LINED
CENTRIFUGAL
PUMP
For PUMPIMC
SLIMES, TAIL-
INGS, etc. Also
for DREDGING
ORES, GRAVEL,
SAND & STONES
H
“BON ACCORD”
Centrifugal Pumps.
HIGH EFFICIENCY.
For Sand Pumping, Sewerage, Salvage, Condensing.
Irrigating, Draining, DocK Pumping, Mine Pumping, etc.
J WILDRIDGE& SINCLAIR, Ltd , 82Pitt St.. Sydney
ENGINEERS,
IRON FOUNDERS,
BOtLER MAKERS,
&Cij &Ct
PROPRIETARY LIMITED
Governing Directors
MEPHAN FERGUSON
ROBERT SHAND
Gordon 5t
'
m
V '-v
Victoria.
Manufacturers of
WROUGHT IRON,
CAST IRON, and
STEEL PIPES.
Centra/
5221
'4l- :
.
■
■«,ng
ssi*
IAL and GENERAL ENGINEERS,
Quotations given for Electrical Installations.
307, 309, 311 Kent St,
(near Erskine
Street),
Ĥ
Ħ
H
Ĥ
THE
, u Z
IMPROVED
We specialty recommend this Breaker for fine crushing, as
the principle of its construction provides for immediate and
positive adjustment to a finer or coarser gauge as required.
ALL SIZES IN STOCK. Capacity One to Twelve Tons per Hour.
Leaflet fully describing, with prices, gladly forwarded on application.
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.,
Engineers 8 Machinery Merchants, 60 Clarence Street, Sydney.
BORING
Nos. 4 & 5 in Stock for immediate delivery with full equipment.
NOTE.—No* 5 Machine drilled 564 feet, and made 4 moves in 74
for 1000
No.
«■ DOWNIE DEEP WELL PUMPS.
N. GUTHRIDGE Ltd.
263 George Street, SYDNEY;
525 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
No. 25 OIL Rid for 2500 Feet
