

The EMBODIMENT OF PERFECTION
R. G. WATKINS & CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOE—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
sr
Diesel
Oil Engines.
Very Economical.
Uses Crude or Unrefined Oil.
535 Kent Street, Sydney,
AND
486 Collins Street, Melbourne,
S.A. Agent: C. C. DELAND, Bowman’s Bldgs.. Adelaide.
3E3:0 3B■A,S : t^X ,, .
jjadley’s Orient hotel.
PIONEER
LEATHER BELTING *>»
Guarantkbd.
J. C. Ludowmi «& Son, Ld ,
ll7 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
ĥ
Take It back.
I must have
HUTTON’S
FincApplc Brand
HAMS S
BACON.
CHUBB’S SAFES
for JEWELLERS.
made from these genuine Tablets is
recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the diges-
tive organs.
HANSENS
ħ
h
fop INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specialty-prepared Tablets acts most
beneficially when taken daily after meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
-&esir.
aJJb. WM/M/MMS WWLfU/V <*
Xeut/uAj tufr&jtldL' tu*4\rMiv toCUuzpttuea/ Punees /&Zo
*
4
\
s
S
%
$
V
*
<4
&
o
Money advanced upon all Securities at Reasonable
Rates of Interest. y
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
THIS COMPANY WAS FORMED TO SUPPRESS USURY.
And at MELBOURNE, BRISBANE and NEWCASTLE.
BENSDORPS
ĥ
ħ
is the Queen of all Cocoas
FOJ^
Arom^treiigtKt'Purity:
h
THE BEST ROOFING IN THE WORLD.
Absolutely Weather and Waterproof.
The Roofing that remains Perfecft through Summer <SL Winter.
Write and we will gladly give yon further information.
THE PARAFFINE PAINT COMPANY, CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SFDNEY.—Lh S. EVANS, AiK&rftfttsiaa Mafinger.
KUPPER LAGER.
IS
THORNE'S WHISHT
HELI
P/ease choose your st SPA " carefully.
You may he penalised otherwise.
DEWffURST 8 HALLORAN, Ltd..
Agents.
The Bulletin
m 32.—1*0. 1629.]
[Thursday, May 4, 1911.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


BOOKS WHICH ARE ESSENTIALLY AUSTRALIAN.
THE “• M " F " ,ed 3< - M *'
AUSTRALIA AND OTHER POEMS: Songs of Nation Making, by Wm. H. Elsuni, 3s. 6d„ posted 3s. Bd.
MAJRRI’D AND OTHER VERSES: A New Volume of Australian Verse, by Mary Gilmore, 3s. 6d. p. 3s 8d
FRECKLBS: A Story of an Australian Boy, by Tarella Quin, illustrated, 3s. 6d, posted 3s. Bd.
LOOSE LEAVES, by Waiter Murdock (reprinted articles from Argus and Australasian), Is., posted Is Id
A SHAsNTY ENTERTAINMENT, by E S. Emerson, Is., posted Is. Id.; full of good Australian ’ thin™
in prose and verse. *
GEQRGE ROBERTSON & CO. PROP., LTD., 238 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
HUDSON’S
“EUMENTHOt JUJUBES.”
The Great Antiseptic and Prophylactic
suited for Old and Young.
For COUGHS, COLDS, SORE THROATS,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA, and the
PREVENTION OF CONSUMPTION.
The Medical
Press and Cir-
cular says:—
“These Jujubes
should be of
special service
to Lecturers,
Public Singers
and Speakers,
and indeed to
all who are
called upon to
use their voices
frequently for
prolonged
periods."
A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
h
O. The Bronchial
Tubes of a dis-
sected Lung.
D. The Lobe of one
of the Lungs.
Sold by Chemists, tins 1/6 post free on receipt of
stamps from HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL
COMPANY, LTD., 19 York Street, SYDNEY.
THE RED PAGE
Adventure Jack London (Dymock’s). The
adventure of a tall, resolute man, who
strong even in sickness, is added to
the adventure of a “slender, level-browed
girl, with romance shining out of her
grey eyes,” and a Colt’s revolver on her
hip, and they become one adventurer. The
scene is the South Seas, and the man-
ner is London’s best.
Anatol Arthur Schnitzler, paraphrased for
y* e . , l E^ l } sh sta S» by Granville Barker
.(Sidgwmk and Jackson). The love
affairs of Anatol, a gay bachelor of
Vienna, are related in seven sparkling
dialogues. One of them, “A Farewell
Supper, has been staged by Barker at
the 1 alace Theatre, "London. The others
are too slight to act well; but they have
much the same interest for the reader
as The Dolly Dialogues.
Here and Hereafter— Barry Pain (Sydney
B 9 ak .p lu b). The “hereafter” does not
suit Barry Pain; but there are suffi-
cient stories in lighter vein to make this
collection worth getting.
Impatient ■ Gris el da —Laurence North (Dy-
mock’s). This “comedy in resolved
discords’ is told vivaciously. It be-
longs to that class of clever stories
which you generally get in The Smart
Set.
Phrynette and London— Marthe Troly-Cur-
tin (Dymock’s). The manners and cus-
toms of the English are submitted to
some amusing criticism by a sprightly
young lady from Paris. Her father’s
friends were artists, and he had let her
do as she liked, and read anvthing “ex-
cept Zola and the Bible.” Her talk is
sometimes horribly “risky” to her Eng-
lish friends.
Ihe Higlit Side of Paris —E. B. D’Auvergne
(Werner Laurie). Here you are—
Paris amusing herself; the Boule Miche,
Montmarte; bohemians, apaches, demi-
mondaines ; all the nicest people in alb
the glory of gaslight—only one shilling.
Aphorisms and Reflections —T. H. Huxley
(R.P.A. reprint). A good sixpen'orth
of cold iron to\ chew.
“The Readers’ Library,”' published by
Duckworth at 2s 6d. net per volume, includes
some excellent books of comparatively recent
date: — A Commentary by John Galsworthy,
Essays tn Freedom by H. W. Nevinson, and
I rogress and other Sketches by Cunning-
hame Graham. Richard Jefferies is an
earlier and not yet forgotten writer, and in
his Bevis you have one of the best of boy’s
stories. . Amaryllis at the Fair is a novel of
provincial English, as seen by a milder and
kindlier Hardy. In it Jefferies dwells for
a page on the merits of a leg of mutton, a
deserving joint which had not been honored
by any previous writer. W. H. Hudson
is quite as fine a stylist as Jefferies, and his
Green Mansions, and The Purple 'Land,
which treat of South American scenery and
adventures, are books which leave long and
pleasant memories.
* * * * '
Macmillan and Co. are reissuing many of
their popular novels in neat little cloth-
bound volumes, which sell here at 9d. each.
Wells’s Tono-Bungay, Marion Crawford’s
Corleone and Adventures of Elizabeth (of
the German Garden) in Riigen are the latest
additions. A correspondent who asked re-
cently for an opinion as to the best of
Marion Crawford’s novels is referred to A
Cigarette Maker’s Romance, also published
in this series.
* * * * .
There is not so much “bite”"in John Gals-
worthy’s pictures of British aristocracy in
The Patrician (Dymock’s) as there was in
The Man of Property and The Country
House. The ink of the satirist becomes less
mordant as he grows older, but his lines
are as fine as ever. The principal interest
of this book is in the careful portraits of
Lord Miltoun and at least three other
members of the ancient Caradoc family.
If the Lloyd George Budget meant the be-
ginning of the patricians’ end, posterity
will get a very impartial view of the last
of the tribe in Galsworthy’s book.
The action of the story is within the souls
of two pairs of lovers. Miltoun, who is
on the verge of wrecking a brilliant future,
receives most attention, and the conflict be-
tween love and duty can be seen straining
and rending his finely-tempered nature. He
and the rest are shown as puppets in the
hands of Fate; for to Galsworthy, as to
Democritus, “character is fate.”
Galsworthy is more poetical than usual.
There, are several passages in which jiis de-
scriptions of the time and the place are shot
through with a subtle symbolism. Note
the delicate significance of “blood-red” in
this passage
Lady Casterley raised her glass, full of a
blood-red wine. “The war would save us,”
she said.
“War is no joke.”
“It would be the beginning of a better
state of things.”
“You think so?”
“We should get the lead again as a na-
tion, afid Democracy would be put back 50
years.”
The Patrician is a splendid addition to an
already notable achievement in literature.
According to Kipling, who ought to
know, when ’Omer wandered about with
his bloomin’ lyre, ’e ’eard old songs turn
up again, and in modern days old fashions
in fiction are revived as often as old
fashions in dress, thus bearing out Nietz-
sche s doctrine of the eternal return of all
things in nature. De Morgan began in the
Dickens manner as Winston Churchill in
the Thackerayan, and a newcomer from
America reverts to the style of Reade’s
The Cloister and the\Hearth, a landmark
on the highway of romance, which runs past
Dumas back to the earliest days of prose
fiction.
On The Broad Highway of Jeffery
Farnol (George Robertson and Co.) you
will find many adventures which haye hap-
pened before, and characters old in story.
In Chapter I. the family lawyer reads the
will in which £20,000 is left to one nephew,
a dashing buck and friend of the Prince
Regent—“in the fervent hope that it may
help him to the Devil within the year,”
and £lO to another nephew, a quiet, schol-
arly chap; with a special bequest of
£500,000 to whichever of the two shall,
within one year, marry Lady Sophia
Sefton, the reigning toast of the day. The
end may be foreseen. The happenings on
the way provide reasonable .entertainment
if you skip the author’s philosophising.
A
HUNTING
MORN.
That cock that is too young to kill
Crows from his heart upon the hill,
And through the hedgetop’s ragged crest
Ihe tinker’s smoke blows curling west;
.Clatters and cups make great carouse,
hull joyous at the rich man’s house.
Horns Mowing, October flowing,
They are all a-hunting going.
The spotted lurchers turn their bones
Over and over the paving stones,
While Dick the dogrnan in the yard
Kisses the cookmaid well and hard,
Till on the lawn, with high disdain,
My lady’s nag, yclept Elaine,
Viewing the vulgar scene of love,
Sighs for a pear from her mistress’s glove.
Horns blowing, October flowing,
They are all a-hunting going.
But now the merry redcoats race,'
Yip, Yip, Halloo! A madcap pace—
Out of the -house and down the stairs,
Lord John Jolly with Miss Bellairs,
The Count de l’Orme and Squire Jones,
Afire to break his new-set bones;
The parson’s pretty actress wife,
The parson too, I’ll stake my life;
The little lawyer, looking big
Beneath his teeny-weeny wig;
Gruff Major Smith, plain Mister Brown,
Hunch-a-bunch from his desk in town;
The Marchioness of Morningside,
And fat Sir Sneego with his bride:
Laughing, stumping, squeezing, thumping,
Down they come like crickets jumping.
Solitary by the table,
Drinking ale for all he’s able,
Sitteth Jeames in reverie,
While the bugles ring with glee.
Horns Mowing, October flowing,
They are all a-hunting going ;
A ll... .except poor Mister Jeames!
Part XLII. of The Forest Flora of
iV.S.W., by J. H. Maiden, contains
the usual full descriptions of Western
Beefwood, Blue Mallee, Fringed (or Sally)
Wattle, Flax-leaved Wattle, and Oliver’s
Sassafras, together with some notes on tim-
bers (particularly N.S.W.) suitable for car-
riage building.
J. H. M. Abbott begins his little book —
William Dampier (Angus and Robertson)
with a useful reminder to children that,
though the Olden Times of fairy tale are
supposed to be the only romantic times, the
present is perhaps the most romantic time
that has ever been. Adventure is still to be
had in plenty, and piracy is more profitable
than in the days of Dampier. The pirate of
to-day walks the streets in silk hat and frock
coat, and is, quite possibly, a vegetarian.
Abbott mentions that “the favorite food of
the buccaneers was raw marrow.” It needed
a diet of that kind and the life of devils
for men to fight like devils. Dampier was
a pirate by accident, and his heart was not
in the business. He was an adventurer,
one of those who must be for ever roaming
and doing things in the open air. Though
Abbott’s statement that Dampier was one
of the wisest of the adventurers could be
disproved from his own pages, he was cer-
tainly one of the Iravest, and he was
also able to observe carefully, and record ac-
curately all that he saw in language of ad-
mirable simplicity. Dampier’s Voyages is
an enjoyable book to read, and it is a pity
that there is no cheap edition of it. Abbott
has told the .story of Dampier’s life, with
liberal quotations from the Australian chap-
ters of the Voyages, in such a way as to
interest school children in one of the great
navigators who helped to rescue Australia
from the unknown. The author evidently
began his task with a genuine love of his
subject, and that went far to make it a good
piece of work.
A fair girl, plenty of horses, and an agree-
able specimeh of Australian manhood, will
commend May Forsyth’s Peter of Gunneroy
to Australian readers. The girl came out
from England as Mrs. Mitchell, leaving
somebody supposed to be her husband be-
hind. She didn’t think much of Australians
at first
‘‘lt takes a little time to get used to their
voices. I tried to talk to them, and find
out if they had any hobbies, or were keen
about anything—-but all I gathered was that
there was not time for reading in Australia,
and that I’d find out it wasn’t a climate in
which to do anything requiring exertion.”
The Bush altered her first impressions, but
the gum trees are not entitled to all the credit
for her admiration
As she sat there with her whip bent
across her knees, and her eyes looking up at
him, she realised that she had loved him
from the very beginning, and that was whv
the bush to her had been full of such extraor-
dmary significance, and the sunshine which
had burned into her very heart was only be-
cause the bush, the grandness of it, the bril-
liant golden sunshine, all meant Peter.
That, of course, is as it should be in
a love story, and this is a fresh, breezy
treatment of the old subject that never grows
stale.
From Vic Yicta, a novel by A. E. Carey
(Greenings): “The situation bristled with
dilemmas. _ The Colonel thought he had the
key to their solution in his pocket, but he
was hedged about with reticences which
shackled his efforts. There was a crop of
difficulty to be reaped. . . .”
Part 11. (omitted from the book). ‘‘Then
he heard the stealthy footprint. ‘Ha, ha,
the villain still pursues me.’ On the one
hand the conflagration was licking the
heavens with resistless fury, on the other
the flood-waters were steadily rising, behind
him the deadly fuse was fired and a yawn-
ing chasm gaped at his feet. The Colonel
murmured and, shackled though he
was, he threw himself with one bound over
the bristling hedge of dilemmas. . . . And
that is how a crop of difficulty was reaped
in the brave days of old.”
Randolph “Billy Pagan’’ began
his strenuous life in the pages of True Eyes
and the Whirlwind. There he related his
own adventures; but as his native modesty
might prevent him from doing himself jus-
tice, the author plays Dr. Watson to his
Sherlock Holmes in a further instalment of
his career —Billy Pagan : Mining Engineer
(Bookstall Co., Is.). A habit of putting
two and two together and drawing con-
clusions is only one of Billy’s gifts. What
he doesn’t know about “wild cats” and
other mines is not worth knowing. A
merry, brave, likeable chap, an Australian
of the best type, all his doings 'in this book
are interesting, and the reader hopes to
meet Billy again.
THE TOWN OF HAY.
-The town of Hay is far away,
•The town of Hay is far;
.Between its hills of green and gray
T Hs winding meadows are.
Within the quiet town of Hay
Is many a quiet glen,
And there by many a shaded way
Are homes of quiet men:
And there are many hearts alwav
That turn with longing, night and day,
Back to the town of Hay.
Within that good old town of Hay
There was no pride of birth,
And no man there pursued his way
A stranger in the earth-;
none were high and none were low,
Of golden hair or gray,
And each would grieve at other’s woe
Down in the town of Hay;
And many a world-scorned soul to-dav
Mid crowded thousands far away
Weeps for the town of Hay.
A road leads from the town of Hay
Forth to a world of din,
And winds and wanders far away,—
„ And many walked therein ;
Far in the crowds of toil and stress
, Their restless footsteps stray,—
Their souls have lost the quietness
Of that old town of Hay ;
But in some respite, of the fray,
In transient dreams they float away,
Back to the town of Hay.
Old men are in that town of Hay,
Amid its quiet trees,
Who dream of strong sons far away
Upon the stormy seas ;
Old mothers, when the twilight dew
The woodbine leaves have pearled,
Dream of their boys who wander through
The wideness of the world :
And tears fall in the'twilight gray,
And prayers go up at close of day
In that old town of Hay.
A hillside in the'town of Hay
Is slanting toward the sun,
And gathered ’neath its headstones gray
Are sleepers one by one;
And there are tears in distant lands,
And grief too deep for tears,
And farewells waved from phantom hands
Across the gulf of years:
And when they place that headstone gray
It crushes hearts so far away
From that old town of Hay.
SAM WALTER FOSS.
WHEN A MAN’S OUT OF A JOB.
All Nature is sick from her heels to her hair,
W’en a feller is out of a job;
She is all out of kilter and out of repair,
W’en a feller is out of a job;
Ain’t no juice in the earth an’ no salt in the
sea, ,
Ain’t no ginger in life'in this land of the
free, /
An’ the Universe ain’t what it’s cracked up
to be, - ' . •
W’en a feller is out of. a job.
W’at’s the good of blue skies, an’ of blossom-
ing trees, 1 „ V,'* *. *
„ W’en a feller is "out of a job?
W’en your boy hez large patches on both of
his knees, .
An’ a feller is out of a job?
Them patches, I say, look so big in your eye
That they shut out the lan’Scape an’ cover
the sky, i : .
An’ the sun can’t shine through ’em the best
,it can. try, ■ , ' , > • ■ -
W’en a feller is out of a job.
W’en a man has no part in the work of the
earth, -
W’en a feller is out of a job,
He feels the whole blundering mistake of his
birth,
W’en a feller is out of a job;
He feels he’s no share in the whole of the
plan,
That he’s got the mitten from Natur’s own
ban’,
That he’s a rejected and left-over man,
W’en a feller is out of a job.
For you’ve jest lost your holt with the rest
of the crowd, •
W’en a feller is out of a job;
An’ you feel like d dead man with nary a
shroud, .
W’en a feller is out of a job.
You’re crawling around, but you’re out of
the game ;
You may hustle about, but you’re dead just
the same— l '
You’re dead with no tombstone to puff up
your name,
W’en a feller is out of a job.
SAM WALTER FOSS.


A
uGC
No. 620.— Burnt Straw Hat, trimmed Fancy-
colored Scarf, 7/11.
Simile- , t,> 01d Rose an<J Ivory, 37/6.
S.m.lar Style, No. 440 ; Single-breasted, Navy, Brow,
„. -i o M , yrtle - Green and Ivorv, 32/6
Similar Style, No. 1, with Strap, Ivory, only 29/6.
No. 42.—Knitted Wool Tennis or fintf i
"eight, Norfolk Style in Cream and Cinnamon Brow!
No. 56.— Tweed Hat, trimmed Band and Quills, 8/11
Fashion and Economy
COMBINE IN
Anthony Horderns’
F amous Low Prices.
No. 151. -Well-made Walk-
ing Skirt, of All Wool Coat-
ing Serge, smartly trimmed
Silk Braid, Box Pleat at back,
19/6. Out sizes in Black and
Navy, 21/.
Other new styles in Fine Serge
Coating, Black or Navy, 15/6
18/6, 22/6.
Also No. 6898, simHar style in
Black and Navy Melton Cloth,
7/11.
No. 5448. — Black Taffeta Chif-
fon Silk Tunic Skirt, hand-
poniely braided, lined Kusil, 55/-
Also in Soft Paillette Silk, 42/-
Terms Cash.
No. 136. —Sicilian Skirt, trimmed
Silk Braid, new Panel effect back
and front, 21/- ; also in out sizes,
23/6.
Similar new designs, plain and
trimmed, 14/6, 16/6, 18/6, 20/-,
24/6.
No. 101.— Striped Pedal Straw Hat, trimmed Band
and Bow of Ribbon Velvet, Green and White, Brown
and White, Prunelle and White, Rose and White 10/6
No. 41. -Felt Hat, trimmed Band and
Cabochon, 9/11.
No. 113.— Stylish Walking
Skirt, of All Wool Fine Cheviot
Serge, new shape, lapped seams
in Black or Navy, 17/6.
Also similar new styles in Fine
Coating serges, 15/6, 19/6.
Out sizes, 21/-
No. 852.— Panama Skirt, new
Shape, Panel back and front,
trimmed Silk Braid, in Navy or
Black, 22/6.
Other smart styles in trimmed
Panama Skirts, in Black or
Navy, 15/6, 21/-, 23/6, 26/6.
No. 538.— Panama Skirt, in
Navy or Black, new shape,
flounce and lapped seams, 17/6.
Also similar shape, but
trimmed Braid, 22/6.
No. 35.— Straw Hat, trimmed Silk arid
Velvet, 9/11.
~1
6GB
The Henley Knitted Sports Coat, fastens
on shoulder arid side, in Cream and Navv,
only 15/6.
No. 668£.— Knitted Qolf or Sports Coat,
| length, fastens at side, in Cream, Navy,
Heather, Reseda and Amethyst, 29/6.
w I : *m*k**»**m.i-
No. 20.— Burnt Straw Hat, trimmed Bund
and Bow of Ribbon Velvet, 5/11.
m
Only Universal
Providers,
Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
.SYDNEY, N.S.W.


TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
PUBLIC CAUTION
When asking for PHOSFERINE see that the article
you get is the genuine and spelt
PHOSFERINE
Refuse any preparation of a similar sounding name
which may be offered from interested motives. T. he
original and only genuine PHOSFERINE is prepared by
ASHTON & PARSONS, LTD., LONDON
h
The Royal Example
ĥ
Phosferine i* used by the Royal Families of Europe,
which, in plain language, means that every user of
Phosferine knows and feels that this famous Tonic is
recommended by the greatest living Physicians.
Indeed such has been its fame and recommendations, that
there is scarcely a Royal Residence in which PHOSFERINE
is not used and favourably spoken of.
PHOSFERINE
THE GREATEST OF ALL TONICS
No other medicine has received such absolute proof of its
extraordinary properties in restoring shattered constitutions
and in giving back to the prematurely aged new life and
energy. It is a proven remedy for Neuralgia, Nervous
Debility, Indigestion, Sleeplessness, Exhaustion,
Loss of Appetite, Lassitude, Faintness, Brain=Fag,
Headache, and all disorders consequent upon a reduced
state of the nervous system.
ħ
Remember
Imitations of Phosferine
are similar only in
name. Insist upon having the genuine
Phosf erine — the kind that is supplied
by Royal Command
h
To the British Royal Family
H.I.M. the Empress of Russia
H.M. the King of Spain
H.M. the King of Greece
H.M. the Queen of Roumania
H.M. the Queen of Spain
H.I.H. the Dowager Empress of Russia
H. I. H. the Grand Duchess Olga of Russia
H R.H. the Grand Duchess of Hesse
The Imperial Family of China.
And the Principal Royalty and Aristocracy throughout the world.
The Genuine Pbosferine is sold by all Chemists Stores, etc., in bottles, 1/- and 2/6-
The 2/6 size contains nearly four times the 1/- size.
Richardson Cushion Frame, Anti-Jar Ball
Bearing Roller Skates.
Ticpfi exclusively in all of the larsrest and most successful rinks in America,
2“ bv aff the Champions of the World, fast and fancy. RICHARDSON
SKATES have held all World’s Records for “14 years. Write for Catalogue.
Tells how to open and operate Roller Rinks.
Richardson Ball-Bearing Skate Co., 311 Michigan Street, Chicago, U.S.A.
RICHARDSON
ĥ
CHICAGO
Australian Mutual Provident Society
Established 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security ot Freehold or Leasehold
City or Suburban Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the s ®® ur, * y
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of tne aus
tralian States or New Zealand AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during- anf year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors—The Hon. A. W. Meeks. M.L.C.. Chairman : Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman : Benjamin
Short Esq. : The Hon. James Burns. M.L.C. : The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.: The Hon. F. E. Wmchcombe. M.L.G.,
Adrian Knox, E«q.. K.C. General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece. F.1.a.. FJE.A., f .S.S.
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
11. W. APPERLY, Secretary.
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau.
Full Particulars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Climate Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Crown Land suitable for Agricultural, and Dairy Farms can be obtained on
Better Terms than elsewhere in Australia.
Corner of Queen and
George Streets* Brisbane.
T. C. TROEDSON,
General Director.
Sydney Branch Office at 116 Pitt Street.—Local Director:
l. MESTON.
• ' ‘ t* ■
c.
C A
IE
73
Z
D 3
m
UNDERWEAR
The extreme comfort of JAY Underwear is ensuring for
it an ever-increasing sale in all parts of the world. It is
durable, economical, and guaranteed against shrinking.
Made of the Finest Australian Wool
All the wearing parts are strengthened by patented
improvements, and there are no irritating seams. Made
in all weights and sizes for men, women and children.
SOLD BY ALL HOSIERS AND OUTFITTERS.
Wholesale only: I. & R. MORLEY and GEO. BRETTLE & CO., London, England.
N.B.—The genuine JAY UNDERWEAR bears the above Trade Mark.
r,
a
HOTELKEEPERS !
We will Accept Half Your Present
Monthly Cordial Bill in Payment
of an AUSTRAL PLANT.
PERFECT SODA WATER for id. per Dozen!
GINGER ALE and LEMONADE at 3d!
I®” 3000 MACHINES IN DAILY USE.
A Postcard will bring our latest Catalogue, post free.
ECKERSLEY 8 SONS, 3 Bond Street, Sydney.
Queensland Agents —ELLIOTT, DONALDSON & DOUGLAS,
10S Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Clements Tonic for Women.
€T A testimony from a
Melbourne woman,
stating what the great nerve
and blood medicine,
Clements Tonic has done
for her and can further do
for hundreds of others*
CLEMENTS
TONIC
SAVED MY LIFE!
344 Ross Street,
Port Melbourne, J2/J/UL
CLEMENTS TONIC LTD.
‘‘The three doctors that
attended me agreed that my
case was nervous prostration.
Although I had the best medi-
cal attention, I got no better.
I was then an inmate of three
Melbourne Hospitals. I tried
the Convalescent Home, was
sent to Ararat in hope that
the change of climate might
do me good, with no better
result. I only took sufficient
food to keep me alive, sleep
was a stranger to me, when a
lady inmate of one hospital
advised me to take Clements
Tonic. When I had taken
two bottles I could feel the
blood flowing through my
veins, my nerves steady, and
the longed-for refreshing sleep
came to me, and I am now
restored to perfect health.
You may use my testimony
for the sake of women who
are ill.”
(Signed) ROSE FORD.
The general opinion of
Clements Tonic is that it is
unequalled for creating vital
strength and appetite in all
cases of lassitude, anaemia,
poor appetite, melancholia, or
weakness. All chemists and
stores sell this great medicine
in Australia. It will make
your life long. Get it.


We Ask
“WHY *
COUGH?”
Q. What is good for my cough?
A. Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral.
Q. How long has it been used ?
A. Seventy years.
Q. Do doctors endorse it?
A. If not,we would not make it.
Q. Do you publish the formula?
A. Yes. On every bottle.
Q. Any alcohol in it?
A. Not a single drop.
Q. How may I learn more of this?
A. Ask your doctor. He knows.
Ayer’s Cherry Pecioral
Prepared by Dr, J, C, Ayer & Co,, Lowell, Mass., U, S. A,
YOUR EYES!
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
EYE
OINTMENT.
INSTANT
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE ITS
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-. Or by post from
Proprietors, 443 Bourke St., Melbourne.
An
English Doctor
says he never goes
abroad without a tin
of Cerebos Salt, be-
cause he could always
rely on its perfect
purity, goodness and
fineness.
Cerebos
Salt
Agents— Harrison & Attwood, Sydney.
m.
SJPATrNU
Collison&Co.
PATENTS and TRADE MARKS
obtained in all countries.
483 Collins St., MELBOURNE.
Eagle Chambers, ADELAIDE
Write us for Inventors’ Guide. Established 1^77
THE
IDEAL APERIENT
hi
lihhli
Id
Packets, 3d., 6d. and Is.
13
RUPTURE
Do you suffer from this complaint ? No
doubt you wish to be cured without operation.
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
trusses ? Then send for our little book,
giving a full description of our
AUTOMATIC
Air Cushion Appliance
by means of which a permanent cure can be
effected. We positively affirm this in spite ot
the many previous disappointments you may
have had. This appliance is something en-
tirely new—is in fact the Best Rupture
Appliance of the Century, and to
prove thi3 to you
WE GIVE YOU TWO DAYS TRIAL
with each appliance that we send out. Perfect
comfort and ease trom the first day’s use. No
steel bands to torture or galling pads or
leather chafing understraps. The pad is made
of soft pliable rubber, which presses gently
but firmly on the correct spot.
Full Particulars Posted Free
WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
ħ
BE SURE YOU GET
BONNINGTQN’S
IRISH MOSS.
■!■■■! INI 111 lIIIHIH
Most chemists and retailers will give you
Bounington’s Irish Moss directly you ask for it.
Here and there, however, you will find one who
does not maintain the dignity of the profession,
and who will try to sell you a substitute, on
which he makes a larger profit. You know the
insidious argument, “Yes, I stock Bennington’s; but have you tried my own
mixture ? It is ‘just as good.’”
Allow no one to deceive you. There is no remedy so good as Bonnimdoji’s
Irish Moss.
FOR THE CHEST, THROAT AND LUNGS,
Try it the next time you have a cola, and you will be satisfied. [1
HEALTHFUL. ECONOMICAL. CONVENIENT.
BICKFORD S Essence of Coffee,
“OUR. JACK” Brand.
Obtainable Everywhere.
Fulfils the requirements of the “ PURE FOODS" Act.
100 CUPS FOR 1/6.
A. M. BICKFORD & SONS, LTD., Fitt St., Sydney; Currie St., Adelaide ; Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
3i6
■v
“Even with all the salubriousness of this splendid
Australian climate, your women are not
developed in figure as well as they should be."
; —A prominent French writer at a farewell dinner.
PERFECT BUST
DEVELOPMENT.
IT is the refreshing firmness and delightful
fulness of the feminine form that capti-
vates, and the woman who is most per-
fectly developed is the one who monopolises
the endearments of the opposite sex.
A thin woman is not necessarily plain ; in
fact, many thin women are admittedly pretty,
but the admission is always qualified with—
“but, poor thing, she is so terribly thin.”
If your bust lacks development and firm-
ness, and your arms, neck and shoulders are
thin and scrawny, even though your face is
pretty, you invariably take second place to
your more fully-developed, full-bosomed
associates in your own social set. It will
always be so unless you correct the imperfec-
tions in your figure.
By following our advice, thousands of weak,
nervous, run-down, ansemip women, who
came to us suffering the ravages of constipa-
tion, biliousness, backache from internal and
functional disorders, and merely skeletons of
what they were to become, have not only been
restored to perfect health, but have been
brought up to their normal weight and devel-
oped to their correct bust, hip and limb pro-
portions.
Let us tell you, absolutely free of charge, how the
same may be done for you. All we ask is that you
enclose a 2d. stamp, and write for our specially-
illustrated free book, “Lovely Woman.” We will
als'> send a Free Sample Treatment.
Full particulars will be posted to you at once.
Our advice costs you nothing-. Call if possible.
FAILURE FLESH-FOOD CO.,
5 LINDEN COURT, SYDNEY.
Cor. Castlereagh & Market Streets.
- L l SOL
fs
Especially
valuable in hot
climates.
IDEAL FOOD FOR
CHILDREN FROM BIRTH.
Only the choicest Malted Barley,
Wheat and Pure Milk used in the
manufacture, and so combined as
to form a perfectly nutritious
food suitable to all ages.
Beware of Infants' Food containing Starch.
Horlick’s Malted Milk is passed by the Board of
Health for Australia, as Free from Starch.
Requires No Cooking. No added Milk.
Prepared instantly by stirring in water.
Wholesome. Invigorating. Sustaining.
Recommended by the Medical Profession.
Sold by all Chemists and Stores.
Samples:—B2, PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Horlick’s Malted Milk Co., Slough, Bucks., England.
Free to Smokers!
Mr. R. J. Hinton, Jerrara Creek, Marulat;,
N.S.W., writes:—
“It gives me great pleasure to inform you that I
have been completely cured of the Tobacco
Habit by your wonderful Tobacco Specific, after
using tobacco heavily for seven years, sometimes
Boz. to lOoz. in the week. It is now 12 months
since I last used tobacco, and, although lam con-
tinually in the company of smokers, I do not have
the least desire to smoke, therefore I consider
the cure permanent.
“My general health is now perfect; all my
former complaints, such as irregular Heart
Action, Dizziness, Nervousness and Stomach
Trouble, which I have every reason to believe
were caused through the use of tobacco, have en-
tirely disappeared, and are only remembered as a
hideous nightmare. I eat and sleep well, and feel
fit to face the world again. It will give me great
pleasure to recommend your remedy to others.”
FREE SAMPLE.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you a FREE
SAMPLE of Tobacco Specific, also Booklet,' Testi-
monials, etc.
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
DEFT. G, VICTORIA ARCADE, SYDNEY. [I
£1573118/9
at a penny a smile, the cash value
of . y .°" The Wayback Series.
v'
A WISH:
Let good Digestion
Wait on Appetite
And Health on Both.
“ Montserrat”
:: :: Sauce
the basis of which is
“MONTSERRAT” LIME
FRUIT JUICE, helps to
fulfil this cheery wish.
Ask your Storekeeper for it.
Guaranteed free from Preservatives.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Revelation.
Beyond the uttermost ways of soaring dream
I sought for God, but found myself alone.
My heart within my breast sank as a stone
Set round with ice; but still by field and stream,
In chasm and waste, I followed that faint gleam,
And found Him not; till, all my faith o’erthrown
Into a mire of doubt, I could but moan
My soul out in a misery extreme.
Then as I lay, a light hand touched my brow,
And sweet, soft lips besought me. For a space
I lay unmoved, too desolate to rise.
But soon I wept in thankfulness, for now,
The while I praised God for His crowning grace,
I saw him smiling in my daughter’s eyes.
MAORILAND.
PRANK MORTON.
The Road to St. Helena.
How far is St. Helena from a little child at
play ? — Kipling, “A St. Helena Lullaby.”
Drink and rave and bluster, but why should we
prevail?
The Road to St. Helena is a road that many sail!
The cliffs of St. Helena, oh, saddest cliffs they be,
Where the Ruined M&n at sunset stand a-gaziny out
to sea!
Oh, the boy with soul in torture thinking of the
Present Time!
Oh, the young man in his glory, and the strong man
in his prime!
Oh, the old man in his wisdom, where the naked
idols fall,
And the Road to St. Helena lieth plain for one and
all!
You may make a little money, you may build a
little fame,
Be it War, or Art or Letters, it is evermore the
same;
You may sail alone and bitter, you may take the
one last friend;
But the Road to St. Helena, you shall sail it in
the end.
When your life-long work is finished and the
“World” turns down the page,
And you sail for St. Helena by the Cape of Middle
Age,
When the Good-bye Coast is fading faster than all
other scenes,
And the sailing wind is fairest—oh, you’ll know
then what it means!
Ah! the Road to St. Helena is a lonely road and
sore,
Where the track runs up behind you and the track
runs down before;
And you see the end as plainly as high Heaven could
reveal,
Or the stolid, silent steersman smoking calmly by
the wheel.
Mother, father, toiling ever, working late and
struggling hard;
Worn-out granny in her corner, grand-dad pottering
round the yard—
But we have no time to listen, while the old folk
croak the tale
How the Road to St. Helena is a road that all must
sail.
Rushing down the road to Fifty on the track of
No Return—
Oh, the withered hands of women where the hot
tears fall and burn !
Oh, the old maid or old mother (all pretend and no
one cares) —
Say! how far is St. Helena from the dot who says
her prayers ?
From the highest to the lowest we must sail it for
the sake
Of the France that claims Napoleon, or the Devon
that claims Drake !
Bear the poor bones back, ye nations. Raise your
monuments and shout;
But the roads you sent your saviours you shall
never wipe them out.
We may drink and rave and bluster, but say can we
prevail,
While Roads to St. Helena are the roads that all
must sail?
As with men, so with the nations, all must stand and
gaze again
From the heights of St. Helena on the Past made very
plain.
N.S.W.
HENRY LAWSON.
The Rev. Wowser.
Arrayed in garb of weird design,
He walks the Path of Peace to-day;
Which, with unconscious humor, has
Been aptly styled “The Narrow Way.”
He shows how wealth may win for us
Admittance at St. Peter’s gate—•
Since man to reach his halo down
Must stand on a collection plate!
While-round him throng the hungry ones
(Pale wrecks on whom no fortune smiles)
He sends his missions to destroy
The happiness of heathen isles.
When, ’neath oppression’s cruel might,
The weaker ones on “life’s dark way”
Come seeking succor at his hands,
He kneels and murmurs: “Let us pray!”
He teaches Hate, though preaching Love;
He bids us ev’ry morn arise,
And walk the day in terror of
The God he cannot realise!
God’s Love is all unknown to him,
Governed by Creed his ev’ry mood.
He scorns the poor, he bows to rank,
And lives a lifelong platitude!
N.S.W.
RIVERINA.
The Victor Wind.
Last night, when all the land was locked in sleep,
A wind came rushing from the restless deep.
Scalping the waves, and wet with bitter brine,
It scoured the beach and grappled with a pine.
Hour after hour that weird and lonely fight
Raged on and on throughout the livelong night.
Sea-voices raised a farewell chant, a knell;
A tangled mass, the riven pine-tree fell.
Shouting loud triumph, wreck and death behind,
Throughout the land rushed on the victor-wind.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


Combination Couch and Bed.
CHANGED INSTANTLY. Size when open, 4ft. x 6ft. 7in.
?-% >•» v 4 • *
'v- .* ‘ '■• v > "«■ *.' v j> *
J- •’•■ *■ *■ 44 ■& v ■> ■«
CLOSED AS COUCH.
OPEN AS DOUBLE BED.
Cannot get out ot order; is
exceptionally strong and durable.
Just the thing for offices,
small rooms, or where an extra
bed is required.
Invaluable for hotels, boarding-
houses, coffee palaces, and similar
establishments.
Can be had fitted with box, to
act as linen press. Three pieces
of furniture in one.
Elegantly upholstered.
PRICES:
In Cretonne, £4 »
Tapestry or American Leather,
£4 155. ; in Rexine, £5 ss. and
£5 15s. With Box, 20s. extra.
Can only be obtained from
MARCUS CLARK & Co. Ltd.
SYDNEY.
The Bulletin Post Cards.
NEW SERIES, IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve 6d
Packet of Ten ... ...
h
UNDER VICE-REGAL
ĥ
PATRONAGE,
The Misses Isaacs,
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair-
workers & Dermatologists,
161 KING Sf REET, SYDNEY, between Elizabeth & Castlereagh Streets.
Transformations from £4/4/- Tails from 7/6. Puffs from 25/- set 7/6>
Telephone 2138 Central. COMBINGS MADE UP.
Country orders receive prompt attention.
The Goldfields Diamond Drilling Co., Ltd.,
339 Collins Street, MELBOURNE. 79 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Boulder Road, KALCOORLIE, W.A.
Diamond Drilling and Water Boring Contractors.
Sole Manufacturers of The Victoria Percussion Drill. Agents for THE SULLIVAN MACHINERY
CO.’S Diamond Drills, Air Compressors, Rock and Air Hammer urine.
Drill Carbons and Spares lor Diamond Drills stocked. Full particulars and_prices_on_applic£2l
WELSBACH
Electric Lig(ht-
The Perfect Metallic Filament Lamps.
m
CANDLE
<4O
VOU
t'A
“On WG//T DO7T
In very many factories, shops, businesses and
homes throughout Australasia, the WELSBACH Lamp
regularly every night goes on duty.
mr Welsbach Filament Electric Lamps will always give a far more brilliant, a
1. clearer and better light than the ordinary carbon and other electric lamps.
«r Welsbach Lamps not only-have the strongest metallic .filament, b«t have, passed the
ll severest tests, proving them undoubtedly superior in efficiency and economy.
*r With an increase in light and convenience comes a substantial decrease in con-
l! sumption of current. Welsbach Lamps pay for their installation i
sumption
Let them go “on night duty” fcr you.
and Stores, or the
in a quarter.
To be had from leading Electrician?
ELECTRIC LIGHT DEPT. :
WELSBACH LIGHT CO. of Australasia, Ltd.
WELSBACH HOUSE—3O2 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
380 LONSDALE STREET, MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
102 VICTORIA STREET, WELLINGTON, NEW ZEALAND.
Proved to Assist Digestion beyond any Doubt or Questio n
WARE SCHNAPPS
ABSOLUTELY
PURE.
OBTAINABLE
EVERYWHERE.
The Largest Distillers
in tHe World.
FREEBOOTER
brand
RtotiTfftet)
sqUARE
SCHNAPPS
IT 13 PPOOOCE
Of
SOUAftt HOLLAND
PROPRIETORS
METHEtttArmi DISTIUXWES
DEirr HOLLAND
Js=
\<s\
N
2
CIGARETTES.
East, West,
ABDULLA’S Best.
Turkish,
Egyptian,
Virginian.
DALGETY&Cim
Consider the Halley
how it goes!
If you want your carrying done by modern methods; if you want a
means of transport which is economical and efficient ; if you want to cut out waste
from your business and reduce your carrying cost to the lowest point, we would
urge you to consider the
Halley Motor Lorry
It goes far and fast, strongly and steadily. It is simple in construction and
strong in build. .It has a transport capacity up to 8 Tons, and extremely low
fuel and oil consumption.
Call and see the model now in stock.
Halley Commercial Motor Chassis
Cipacity 5 Tons—4 Cvlinder Engine, 40-h.p.-High Tension Magneto Ignition
ln addition to that by coil and accumulators. Force feed lubrication through
hollow crank shaft, etc., 3 Speeds Forward and 1 Reverse. Footprint gear-box
with gear wheels always in mesh. Petrol tank 15 gallons capacity Roller
chains transmission. Polack Solid Rubber Tyres, special quality and extra
large size. Twin tyres on rear wheels. Speed on level, 12 miles per hour
maximum. Brakes of very large bearing surfaces. Delivery from Stock.
Sole Agents :
Dalgety and Co., Ltd.,
136-138 Phillip Street, Sydney.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 32.—N0. 1629.
THURSDAY, MAY 4. 1911.
Puiok Go.
SAMSON AND DELILAH AND SOME PEOPLE WHO PUT OUT SAMSON’S EYES.
And when Delliah had shorn Samson, she sald, "Th e Philistines be upon thee, Samson.” But the Philistines took him, and put out his eyes,
and brought him down to Gaza, and bound him with fetters of brass ; and he did grind in the prison house.— Judges XVI.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod,
of Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mos-
man, for The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
Ltd., at the Office of the Co., 214 George-
street North, Sydney, N. S. Wales, Aus-
tralia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES: Business, 1384 Central.
Editorial, 257 City.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
I’er Annum .. . . ..£l6O
Half-yearly .. .. • • 013 6
Quarterly . . . • • • 0 7 0
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin
posted regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communica-
tions to be addressed to William Macleod, Manag-
ing Director.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the
paper (and, to an extent, themselves ) by taking
some care as to methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, ad-
vertisements, etc.) should in no case be addressed to
the Editor, but to the Manager. To send them to
the Editor is to invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters
to anyone by name. “The Editor, The Bulletin,” is
the proper superscription for “copy.” Delay, and
even loss, is sometimes caused by addressing to per-
sons instead of officials. The person may not be
there; the official always is.
Sfjecial Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” col-
umn all contributions submitted, whether in the
form of Political, Social or other Articles, Verse,
Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially accept-
able), Paragraphs, Letters or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS.
when the address ie specified and stamps are en-
closed. But no MS. will be returned, or preserved,
unless these conditions are observed. When MS. is
forwarded without stamps for return it will be un-
derstood that the copy is to be destroyed if not ac-
ceptable. Personal applications for return of MS.
cannot receive attention. The Bulletin desires,
further, those sending MS. to distinctly understand
that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Blade and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea,
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any pic-
ture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
The Bulletin is forwarded direct to ayents on
account of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale
agents) to Victoria, West Australia, Queensland,
Tasmania and New Zealand; and on account of
Messrs. Atlcjnson and Go. and Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide
—at lif6 per doz. nett.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotch', Ludgate Circus, and at British
Australasian Office, Ho High Holborn, London,
W.C.
South Africa.-— The Central News Agency, Cape-
town; Dawson and Son, Capetown; The Central
News Agency, Durban, Natal; and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver
8.C.; Irvine and Forsyth, Jill Hastings Street;
Norman, Caple and Co., Stationers.
U.S.A. —Isserlis A., Seattle, Washington; Inter-
national News Agency, Los Angeles; Chicago News-
paper Agency, 170 Madison Street, Chicago.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port
Said.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Ilong Kong.
Singapore. — Messrs. John Little and Co.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size
6%in. x Ilyin., will be forwarded on application.
Larger sizes can be supplied if desired.
THURSDAY, MAY 4, 1911.
THE REFERENDA-AND AFTER.
The Referenda campaign was like nothing
else that Australia had ever seen. George
Reid’s Anti-Socialistic humbug was not
taken seriously by Vested Interests; any-
how, not seriously enough to cause the mon-
eyed classes to disburse campaign funds
with a free hand. The Fusion policy was
so colorless that the majority even of Anti-
Laborites spoke of it with open scorn.
Prior to the introduction of the class issue
by Reid, Capital subsidised and worked for
the Freetrade or the Protectionist parties,
according as it chanced to be an importer
or a manufacturer. The Referenda strug-
gle on the other hand, found practically
every considerable employer of labor in the
Commonwealth solid in. opposition to the
imminent menace of raised wages a con-
crete Tiger, whose actuality none of them
Questioned. It was inevitable that there
should be a block “No” vote from those
whose wage-sheets stood to be swollen either
bv the operation of New Protection, or by
a Common Rule of the Federal Arbitration
Court It was inevitable, likewise, that
every shareholder in Melbourne Gas or
Tramway companies, and in Sydney Sugar
or Tobacco or Coal and Shipping combines
should get together to vote down the Gov-
ernment’s proposals in regard to monopolies
The shareholders in Australian I rusts and
the wealthy employers of labor are, it is
true, a negligible quantity numerically.
But they were reinforced, as they mostly
are, by a herd of LAZARUS-like persons, who
voted their ticket, partly owing to a natur-
ally servile habit of mind, partly from grati-
tude for the crumbs that come their way.
The back-blocks attorney, who once ad-
vised Brown-Smith, M.L.C., in his dog-
license trouble; the small dentist who gets
a tooth-repairing job, now and then, from
the Adipose family; the struggling doctors
and auctioneers who occasionally come into
professional contact with the affluent —all
these tend to vote the way their richest
patrons vote. It is a mule-headed proceed-
ing, seeing that the small professional man’s
best hope of prosperity lies not in aggrand-
ising the infrequent big man, but in better-
ing the lot of the frequent little one. Still, a
tragically common form of British snob-
bishness debars the typical brass-plate ex-
hibitor from taking that view, and Toryism
benefits accordingly.
* * * *
Anti-Labor, therefore, began the late
struggle with a sizeable ready-made vote, m
its pocket. And it spared no efforts, legiti-
mate or otherwise, to improve the advantage.
Old electioneering hands were astonished at
the reckless way the allegedly Right Think-
ing party spent its money. .Struggling jour-
nals, which had never previously discovered
the possession of “Liberal” sympathies, be-
came suddenly aghast at the prospect ot
Australia’s benign monopolies being inter-
fered with, and the New Protection shocked
them for the first time in their lives. House-
holders were swamped with leaflets and car-
toons, and alcoholic strangers clamored at
them to vote “No” if they wished to avert an
unspeakable catastrophe. Elderly citizens
of good repute—the Bruce Smiths and
Solemn Lees of the community—rushed
about, threatening that if the verdict went
against them they would drag the torch or
bloody revolution through the land. After
the first week the “Liberal” sheets dumped
Truth into her well, clamped the lid down,
and announced variously that a “Yes” vote
would mean the ruin of the N.S.W. working
man by the levelling-down of his wages to
the miserable Victorian standard, and like-
wise the ruin of the Victorian toiler by the
levelling-down of his wages to the deplorable
N.S.W. figure. Financial chaos and the re-
fusal of Cohen to advance another shilling
was predicted from the raising of State rail-
way men’s wages; also financial disaster to
railway employees by the wholesale lowering
of their wages. The poor widow—-the identical
old widow who was going to be empaupered
by Federation —was dragged into the contro-
versy. C. G. Wade limned her as a Sydney
Ferries shareholder, who would be driven
on the cold, hard streets if the Government
were empowered to acquire her property —
and this despite the fact that, at the worst,
the Government only proposed to do it “on
just terms.” Speaking with a thousand dif-
ferent voices, the folks who had everything
to lose by a “Yes” v<)te besought those who
had everything to gain by it to vote “No.”
The howl was so loud, concerted and auda-
cious that it was bound to carry weight.
* * * *
While Anti-Labor was unprecedentedly solid,
the Labor party was split for the first time
in its history. In some States the combines
found a priceless ally in certain State Labor
members. This astounding variety of demo-
crat put in his time fighting quietly, but
hard, for the low-wage cause. He saw his
own job imperilled, or, at any rate, dimin-
ished in importance by the Federal Govern-
ment’s proposals, and resolutely placed what
he conceived to be his interests before those
of the people. Since the average citizen
takes time to become disillusioned with men
he has trusted for years, the interested re-
presentations of State Labor members lured
many thousands of Labor voters into the
enemy’s camp.
* * * *
So the Government’s proposals were de-
feated by Vested Interests, their immediate
hangers-on, and the factor which in the U.S.
is termed Graft or Boodle, acting in con-
cert with State Labor. Yet the voting
strength of that weirdly unnatural alliance
was inconsiderable. Less than 45 per cent,
of electors on the roll voted —the smallest
poll Australia has known. Fifty-five per
cent, of the people were so little impressed
by the horrific warnings that had been
shouted in their ears that they refused to
avert Doom by making a couple of crosses
on two slips of paper. It is likely
that a large proportion of non-voters under-
stood nothing about the proposals. Cer-
tainly they were intricate enough to baffle a
normal layman. Thus, to appreciate the
relation of the suggested Trade and Com-
merce clause to the rest of the amendments
required an understanding of the fine points
of half a dozen involved High Court deci-
sions. The extent of the popular ignor-
ance on the subject, even in the closing
stages of the fray, might be gauged by a
study of the smaller Tory sheets. There
was* something epic in the utter futility,
not to say imbecility, of their final pro-
nouncements. If the public educators in
charge of these journals knew nothing ot
the question at issue, it seems a fair thing
to assume that the bulk of their readers
knew little more.
* * * *
The task that faces the Nationalist party
is, therefore, mainly educative. The thick-
and-thin supporters of the State Labor
member must be brought round to the view
that the interests of the wage-earners m
particular, and Australia in general, stand,
after all, before the personal ambitions of
any individual Labor politician. The citi-
zen who runs a shop or farm, or who doc-
tors or stops teeth, or expounds the Word,
has to be convinced that his interests are
not those of the price-raising monopolists
who bulldozed him into voting “No last
week Those who hesitated need to be
shown that the “Yes” side of the fence is
the Australian side, and the safe side as
The job may take time, but it is
unthinkable that it should fail. The present
intolerable and absurd position is that a
mass of legislation, which the country au-
thorised as far back as six years ago, and
which members of both Federal parties have
at different times approved, is rendered
nugatory. Without that legislation the
manufacturer may draw all the profit which
results from the tariff, and return none ot
it to his employees in the shape of decent
wages. In addition, he may penalise the
consumer as he pleases in the matter of
raised prices. The Trust curse, whose
steady development in timber, rabbits,
coal fruit, and so forth, is daily chronicled
in the press, is at liberty to expand un-
checked. W. A. Holman, of N.S.W.,
whose amazing attitude helped so materi-
ally to defeat the proposals, talks blandly
of “an agreement between the State Gov-
ernments* to voluntarily hand over certain
powers to the Commonwealth.” It is a
feeble bluff, put up with the evident inten-
tion of placating scandalised Nationalists.
Even assuming that the rabidly provincial
State Governments were willing to forfeit
the pow T ers required—and the question of,
sav, a Denham Government so much as
considering the matter, is too ridiculous for
discussion- —there are the Legislative Coun-
cils. Ninety per cent, of their members
regard the New Protection as “an infamy,”
and legislative control of monopolies as
“confiscatory Socialism.” As things stand,
Australia is hopelessly in the toils. It will
stay there just as long as the wage-earners,
which is to say four-fifths of the people,
continue by indifference, inaction or other-
wise to play into the political hands of the
small clique whose interests are directly op-
posed to theirs.
SOME STATE WRONGS.
Now that the Sydney daily papers are full
of wails about “harbor congestion” and “the
block on the wharves,” it is time to mention
a few State Wrongs which are lost sight of
in the wild turmoil about States Rights. A
Commission appointed by Wade, the cham-
pion full-back of the State Righters, sat in
190 S-9 and discovered, after a year’s labor,
that the conveniences of the port of Sydney
were inadequate to the increased demands of
the rapidly-growing trade, and that conse-
quently the whole State was handicapped,
lined and incommoded thereby. It also
found :
(1) That the trade of the port and the country
was rendered more costly in the handling because it
had to struggle against the railway bottle-necks and
dead-ends, congested wharf approaches, and inade-
quate wharf accommodation;
(2) Narrow streets, with hills up and down which
merchandise had to be dragged;
(3) Want of co-ordination between the two great
handling departments, the Harbor Trust and the
llailway Commissioners;
(4) The absence of rail connection between the
main wharves and the railways, while even the cen-
tral railway station wasn’t really central;
(5) The want of broadways around the wharves,
and the need for the removal of the Australian Gas
bight Co.’s plant, so that the wharfage plans of the
Harbor Trust in Darling Harbor might be carried
through ;
(6) The need of bridges and tunnels connecting
the north and south shores of the harbor in order
{inter alia) to bring Newcastle traffic into direct
link with Sydney, instead of compelling it to go
through the bottle-neck both ways.
At the time the Commission reported,
Full-back Wade was so extremely busy in-
structing the Commonwealth Parliament how
to govern Australia, and so preoccupied in
conserving State Rights by resisting the
claims of some State servants to a square
deal, that he was forced to put the report in-
to a pigeon-hole, and he allowed it to stay
there. The problem of Sydney’s wharf and
harbor congestion—which means trade conges-
tion for the whole of N.S.W. from Ulladulla
to Tibooburra —has been intensified by two
years’ rapid growth, and the report still re-
mains untouched.
* * * *
In the course of the Commission’s investi-
gations it found that the conditions of
N.S.W. trade had vitally changed during the
last few years. Its wool, which was for-
merly consigned from the station to London
and sold there, is now consigned to agents
in Sydney and sold there. London is no
longer the wool market for N.S.W.; Sydney
is. The buyer comes here; we do not send
our wool to him. Consequently, in the last
few years colossal warehouses have been
raised in Pyrmont and elsewhere, into which
the wool is carried on lorries up and down
various hills, stored, sold, and then carted out
again at vast expense to the ship’s side. The
Railway Commissioners had an “ideal state
of affairs” in contemplation to prevent all
this handling, for which, of course, in the
last resort, the producer has to pay. The
whole of the warehouses were to be in “one
great central station.” Asked why the
scheme was not carried out, the Railway
Commissioners replied that “vested interests
were so strong that the idea was aban-
doned.”
* * * *
Then, again, there is a double handling of
imported and exported goods, for which the
citizens of N.S.W. pay. Said this same Com-
mission : —-
Owing to the fact that Sydney is the distributing
centre for the whole of the State, about 90 per cent,
of the goods received from oversea vessels are carted
from the ship’s side to the Sydney warehouses, and
then distributed over the State. . .Similarly, a large
proportion of the products of the State intended for
export is delivered into the Sydney warehouses,
and sold to an exporter for shipment abroad.
This state of things is leading daily to greater con-
gestion of traffic in our narrow streets, and it is
apparent that, unless prompt measures are taken to
cope with the difficulty, it will, in the near future,
become almost intolerable.
The “near future” is here, and so are the
difficulties. The Harbor Trust still asks
for the land on which the Australian Gas
Light Co.’s plant stands, in order that a
broadway may be made to give access to the
splendid wharves it has built at Miller s
Point and Darling Harbor, and to connect
these with Circular Quay. But again vested
interests have prevailed, and the co. is still
there. The inward and outward merchan-
dise of N.S.W. still crawls up hills and
down dales from the train or the ship to the
warehouse or to the lighters, with double and
treble and quadruple handling. The little
fingers of the Sydney storemen, the Gas
Company, and the carriers are apparently
thicker than the thighs of the State Govern-
ment, and the back of vested interest is
stronger than the fist of the two great State
departments, the Railway Commissioners
and the Harbor Trust. And these are the
people who perpetually cry about State
Rights! Has the State no rights against
these vested interests —interests which oper-
ate detrimentally to the biggest spending de-
partments of the State, to the citizens ot
Sydney, and in concentric circles to the
people of N.S.W. generally? Has the lag-
ging State only rights as against the Com-
monwealth Government, which is struggling
to acquire power to do something for the
protection of the people of the States against
trusts and monopolies?
Finally, the city and the State are penal-
ised and State Wrongs created by the fact
that some of its great departments are work-
ing independently of, and in some cases an-
tagonistically to, each other. The Commis-
sion’s report showed the amazing fact that,
while the Harbor Trust had elaborated a
scheme of wharfage in Darling Harbor, on
the assumption that the Railway Commis-
sioners would bring the railway down so as
to take the goods straight off the ship, and
save all the up-hill weariness and expense
and unnecessary lighterage, the Railway
Commissioners had elaborated a counter-
scheme of bringing the railway along to
Glebe Island, in the full conviction that the
Harbor Trust would build wharves there!
Take a couple of extracts from the evidence
of Mr. Hakpeis, then traffic manager, now
Commissioner: —
Mr. Hickson (of the Harbor Trust) : Do you know
that the Harbor Trust Commissioners have a scheme
before them now for about 14 additional over-sea
berths between the gasworks and Dawes Point?
Mr. Hakper: No.
Mr. Hickson: The large over-sea traffic is gradu-
ally going away from Circular Quay; and Woolloo-
mooloo Bay is filled up. It (the over-sea traffic)
will be concentrated botweeen Dawes and Miller’s
Points. We are providing very fine accommodation,
with good stores and a good road behind them.
Under those circumstances, 1 ask you whether you
think it would be justifiable to recommend that a
railway should be brought down to the new wharves?
Mr. Harper : I do not think so.
Such want of co-ordination between two
great State Departments is surely a State
Wrong of a most grievous nature, when it
causes the frustration of costly plans.
While State Ministers are splitting straws
about the right of the Federal Government
to do things which the States as units can-
not do effectively, Vested Interests are bat-
tening on the necessities of the people of
the whole State. Great changes rendered
necessary by the country’s growth de-
velopment are neglected because the State
rulers are too busy fighting for theories and
losing the substance. Progressive cities in
Europe and America not nearly the size of
Sydney have spent their millions cheerfully
to meet their increasing trade, and spent
them most profitably. Cities like Melbourne
and Adelaide, Auckland and Wellington have
conquered such problems. But Sydney is
content to potter along, bringing its mer-
chandise into dead-ends and through bottle-
necks, and up steep hills and down into
deep valleys, carrying vast loads in trol-
leys through crooked, narrow streets, because
its rulers are too busy worrying about imag-
inary State Rights to redress real State
Wrongs.
THE AUSTRALIAN VANDAL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The country did not make him ; his vandal-
ism is the result of his mainly British origin;
of his descent from a people that had no
public estate in a country where all the land
and many of the opportunities had been
stolen centuries before, and that conse-
quently had no respect for the public owner-
ship suddenly thrust upon it in a new land.
* * * *
Out of the greedy exclusiveness of the
British freeholder grew the landless man’s
idea that anything held in common belonged
to nobody, and might therefore be destroyed
without any risk of punishment. Men who
would not steal a shilling from an indi-
vidual calmly defraud Customs or Land Tax
Commissioner, or any other branch of Gov-
ernment ; women who regard the pilfering
housemaid with horror will smuggle shame-
lessly, and then wipe their lips and say that
they have done no sin. That is general
enough in most countries; but aimless van-
dalism with regard to public property is
most often the attribute of the Anglo-Saxon,
or whatever other thing the mongrel British
nation has become by now. England (and Aus-
tralia has followed the fetich of the British
closely) maintains the old Wall around the
private garden, the old rails and spikes
around the allegedly public park, and the old
“keep off the grass” attitude; while France
for more than a century has had the open,
unfeneed country-side, the only barrier being
a row of poplars-—the poplar that makes the
man who sees it think always of Normandy. It
has communal orchards—apple and pear
trees lining the roads—owned by all and by
all respected. Public monuments and statues
are not linked round by chains and barriers;
for these people have some of the artist and
much of the real citizen in them, and respect
the beautiful and their own. Consider how
many centuries would the Arch of Titus in
the Roman Forum have lasted in London,
unguarded,. and without rails and spikes !
War and invasion have passed over it and
only scarred it; a mere century or so of the
ruffians who take great pains to climb the
pediments and chisel away the noses and
cheeks of the statues in the Fitzroy Gardens
of Melbourne would have brought it to the
ground. The open lawns in Florence keep
their roses till the season ends; in the Fitz-
roy Gardens they have to be ringed with
spikes and rails, and even then the vandals
pass the barriers and grub the plants to
carry them away, roots and all.
. * * *
Down at Calvi, in Corsica, when I called
at one of the birthplaces of Columbus, a
hen was sitting on 11 eggs in the room Avhere
the navigator was alleged to have been boro,
and the populace used the house as a latrine;
but it was never anything but an ugly little
house, and this degradation of a thing of
public interest is so rare as to be conspic-
uous. But in England there must always
be a barrier and a chain, and side by side
with it the commission of all the offences it
is intended to prevent. And England sent
out all that these things represent to Aus-
tralia —the ignorance, the want of culture,
the small brain that could discern no beauty
in anything that was not a habit.
* * * *
They found the country clean and sweet
and free of disease, and were not satisfied
till they had filled it with pests. The rab-
bit and the stinkwort, sectarianism and the
sweetbriar, the blackberry and tlm thorn,
the gorse and the whin that ate up rat land
by the thousands of acres, the thistle and
the horehound, the starling and the sparrow
and the stinking fox—all these they brougnt
into a clean country, and with them the
British habits and prejudices. And _ they
brought their vandalism into the politics ot
the new land. Wentworth, attempting to
grab Maoriland and make himself Earl of


Woolloomooloo, was a vandal; every man
who ever tried to supersede Australian sense
of greatness with some little Briticism or
other was a vandal, and a great portion of
Australians are vandals to-day. The rail-
ways are the people’s own; yet every day
some of the proprietors slash leather seats,
cut off upholstery buttons, and destroy
rubber window-buffers and metal fittings.
They climb statues and chisel off the faces,
expectorate on pavements, jostle rudely in
crowds. Only a generation or two removed
from the despotism of squire and parson,
their new-found liberty has become rude
license, and courtesy is felt by many of
them to be a surrender of independence.
That is the average city Australian —not
the man of the bush nor the picked Aus-
tralian. The picked Australian is a better,
finer man than the picked Britisher ; bigger-
brained, bigger-hearted, better educated and
more capable. And the main complaint
against the average city Australian is that
lie is too English, which is to say, too small
and thick-headed. Forty years of State
education have bettered him so much above
his earlier type that, vandal as he is, we
can only press for forty years’ more educa-
tion and discipline.
**' # *
The best discipline he can have is from
conscription. Even if invasion should never
come—-and it will be the quickest chance
for the Australian’s salvation if it does —
he would gain so much, not only physically,
but in being taught mental control, that his
term of service (which the clay-brained
commercial man regards as being lost time)
would be time put to its best use. Other-
wise let his vandalism increase—the van-
dalism of a strong-headed creature filled
with meat —and he may be almost as de-
structive to Australia as a foreign enemy
would be. He tears down millions of feet
of fine timber, and gives it to the fire in
order that his children’s lives may be made
wretched with the slavery of a struggling
dairy farm; and in that his vandalism
amounts to murder, since it destroys, for
little result, the youth of the children who
are to be the men who come after. The
drunken man lighting his pipe with five-
pound notes —that is the average Austra-
lian. See him in his pleasure, dirtying the
green and gold of his peerless country ; find-
ing Arcadie and vulgarising it to Hampstead
Heath. In a day he destroys the work of a
century, and is rather proud of it, just as
England used to be proud of the theatri-
cality of one W. E. Gladstone, who de-
lighted in cutting down trees.
I have in mind one of the cruellest, as it
is one of the most often repeated, acts of
vandalism I know of where no economic
reason can be urged. Along the shores of
Port Phillip Bay grows the classic ti-tree
(and you can quarrel over the spelling).
It grows slowly, and has centuries of life
in it. South wind and west wind and north
wind have beaten vitality into it in pain
and stress —great gnarled and rimose trunks,
that were battling before Captain Cook
saw Botany Bay, lean landward. Brighton,
which has a municipal council of sorts, has
torn it down, leaving the cliffs bare; and
now the vandalism of picnickers is tearing
it out at Hampton and Sandringham, and
the beauty that has taken a century to make
falls in a day.
* ■* * #
It was the third good season, and myriads
of little metallic blue and green beetles,
six-legged and bronze of belly and shard,
crowded the tree bloom, waiting for the
time to come to attack the onion gardens.
Every three successive good seasons give
them a chance to strip the ti-tree of its
bloom. They rose from the ti-tree in irides-
cent clouds, getting into flight directly from
the leaf, and their metallic shards shone in
the sunlight as they attacked the bloom and
the pine-apple shaped awns of the nodding
grasses.
* * * *
Upon the cliffs the bloom showed its petals
on the glassy yellow bloom of the capeweed;
the fluffy gold of the wattle overarched the
white pathway; and, all around, gold of
the bottle-brush honeysuckle, flute of magpie,
lilt of blackbird, chatter of little melodists
the size of your thumb. It was a tent of
green and white, with the fluted columns of
the ti-tree for the king poles; a cathedral
of leaf, with white blossoms showering at
the spring of the dome. The sea was haze
and softened blue of steel; the capeweed a
lawn of saffron stars fallen to the earth ; the
arc of the breakwater tense drawn like a
white bow upon the shield of ruffled steel
that is the sea. The long half circle of the
bay sweeps round to Brighton, ugly in her
nakedness ; a bee in every black-centred daisy
of the capeweed; a skylark singing high
above the nest; a lusher green in the quiet
gloom under the ti-tree —a gloom striped
and dappled with light; the ti-tree fluted as
those marble columns in the cloisters of
Milan; each capeweed a saffron star, edged
white around its little pollen bags for the
bee, and around its seed-cases for the earth
that next spring may blow again with
beauty. Little silken stars of forget-me-not
blue, to whom death must soon come with the
summer heats, although they bloom as if
they would live for ever. Quiet, and calm,
and green and gold, and blossom; a glade
of ti-tree beaten over and growing at right
angles to their roots, but still a-bloom and
glad with life because from stress they
have won strength. And on the gleaming
carpet of grass little children playing, their
poppy-tinted faces yellowed by the pollen of
the capeweeds.
And then to the Eden come rapine and
death: the Australian vandal in couples, or
the more horrific forms of picnics, staining
the beauty, tearing down in a minute the
trees that have taken a century to grow, and
that, apart from their beauty, deserve life
for the brave fight they have made against
the elements. Bottles and newspapers and
the remains of food litter the new carpet of
the spring; in that sandy garden the vandals
take great pains to break bottles against the
tree trunks, so that Paradise shall look like
the East End of London —where they rightly
belong. Shrieks in the clumsy love chase
which follows on the unspeakable female
throwing pieces of food at the unspeakable
male as an invitation to dalliance; noises
as of monkeys drunken in a clean wood;
the sacred grove insulted with noise and dirt
and mental besottedness, so that all the
Dryads flee away. Winter hides the fouling
agents; spring breaks clean on a new earth;
and the summer brings the vandals again
to the sanctuary —larrikin vandals, Salva-
tion Army vandals, revivalist vandals; all
makes of noise and dirt, and doers of unclean
things. Pitiful!
* * * *
Here is one of the many sanctuaries —
places made holy by tree and blossom and
bird and sunlight—and the vandals are in-
vading it and leaving it poorer every sum-
mer. It belongs not to these, nor to the
handful of apathetic people who live about
it always, and to whom its beauty is cheap
because it is not new ; it belongs to the na-
tion, destined to leave some mark on some
parts of the national character —good mark
if preserved, and bad mark if destroyed. The
artist and the poet who can express them-
selves shall bless or curse us as we deal by it;
the great army of men and women who are
blind artists and dumb poets shall be sorry
for its destruction, even if they know not
why they are sorry. And the smallest ar-
tist and the smallest poet are of more value
to the nation than the largest people whose
lives end in making much money out of pork
or drapery or fish-oil. The municipal
authorities are usually people of fish-oil
or pork or drapery ideas, and even if their
vested interests did not cause them to wel-
come the vandal, they are unfit to be trusted
with the work of guarding the shrine. That
work must be given to some central au-
thority-—-an authority that will be so proud
and jealous of its trust as to make it penalise
the vandal out of his Britishness, and either
make a good Australian of him, or suppress
him utterly.
RANDOLPH BEFORD.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The “Class Legislation” Cant.
Of all the cants ever canted in a canting
world, the cant of the “class legislation”
cry is the most canting. Ever since man be-
gan to make laws, class legislation has been
the rule. The highway of progress is strewn
with the bones of men who have protested
against it. The Wat Tylers and Jack Cades
paid with their lives for opposing it. Yet
those who gabble this parrot talk of “class
legislation” turn up their noses at the men-
tion of Jacic Cade, the man who was on
their side. Cade, according to their calen-
dar, was a mere fellow without a stake in
the country. That is to say he was “no
class.” For a thousand years, more or less,
the lawmakers made laws conserving their
“rights” ; the sole right of Jack and the “no-
class” people was to obey them, or be hanged.
Laws for the rich were game laws ; laws for
the poor consisted of Thou Shalt Nots, with
appendices. Now that the people are begin-
ning to rub the dust out of their eyes, the
troglodytes who believe that in the beginning
Herbert Spencer created the heavens and
the earth, profess to be alarmed, and shout
that class legislation is bad. They are right.
It is bad. Therefore bury it, burn it! It
has been a stumbling-block in the way of
Democracy, and its death and burial are due
and overdue. But the funds of Fat and Co.
may be depended upon to prolong its malig-
nant existence yet a while, and the people
who hold up hands in holiest horror at the
dreadful thing will struggle the most desper-
ately against the dreadful thing’s destruc-
tion.
Justice Brown, of the Court of Appeal.
Last session the Victorian Government
passed an amending Crimes Act, by which
the Governor-in-Council, which practically
means the Attorney-General, may release
any prisoner on recognisances to be of good
behavior. This might be' a sensible piece
of legislation—in the hands of a sensible
Attorney-General. But, as it happens, the
Victorian Attorney-General is Brown—
Drysdale Brown. Last year this Mr.
Brown, apparently on his own initiative,
ordered the prosecution of Robert Harper
and four other persons on a charge of con-
spiracy, which prosecution was speedily and
conclusively shown to have been quite un-
justifiable. On the comments of Supreme
Court Judges in that and the previous action
of Ronald v. Harper and other trials re-
sulting therefrom, the Crown prosecuted
seven persons, including various disreputable
degenerates, and juries found them guilty of
a series of utterly' malicious acts of per-
jury. One can find some excuse for the man
who lies to save himself or a friend, or even
out of lust of revenge or hate ; but for the
waster who deliberately swears away a
strange man’s character for the sake of a
misty promise of a billet and the price of a
couple of pints, no respectable country has
any use. From some points of view, he is
the worst internal enemy it can have. No-
thing matters quite so much as the mainten-
ance of the purity of the Courts and the ad-
ministration of justice; and this sort of man
pollutes the fountains, and poisons the wells.
When, therefore, Judge Chomley sentenced
these scoundrels to two years’ imprisonment
—the maximum being seven years—no one
accused him of severity. But the other day,
after nine months of the term had been
served, the new Appeal Judge ordered the
release of the seven deadly sins on their
giving recognisances to be of good behavior
for 15 years—and they were forthwith dis-
charged from custody! Possibly Mr. Brown
had reasons for his action, though, so far,
none have been given. In fact, the whole
episode has been shrouded in mystery, and
there is no reasonable expectation that the
shroud will be torn off. Under the circum-
stances it seems to be necessary to make a
still further amendment of the law. In
most States the railways cannot charge a
customer less than the fixed rate without
reporting the matter to Parliament, and set-
ting out the reasons for the variation. In
this much more important matter it seems
necessary—in view of the possibility of
more Browns— that the same principle
should be applied to reductions of penalties
fixed in open Court by Judges; and in every
case the report of the Judge who fixed the
penalty should be attached to the report of
the Minister. Why, however, there shouldn’t
be a real Court of Appeal instead of appeal
to a man who has probably had no judicial
training, but is a party politician, dependent
on votes, is even more niysterious than Mr.
Brown’s action in the particular case under
review.
• ♦
The Limejuice that Isn’t.
The Verran Government is quite resolved
that South Australia, at any rate, shall put
into its Little Mary just what it intends,
instead of any old substitute that Private
Enterprise may find it cheaper to introduce.
P. E. is frankly amazed at the idea. Long
years of steady and unsteady adulteration
have given it an idea that this sort of swind-
ling is a “custom of the trade,” not to be
interfered with, and its opinion of the new
Food and Drugs Act varies from ridicule to
abuse. Opposition-leader Peake recently
made fun of Verran for having mentioned
that Mrs. Verran had found flour and pol-
lard in the household pepper. Verran added
that Commerce was “a rogue.” Thereupon
there was a howl of indignation; and the
Chamber of Commerce prescribed boiling oil
for the vile slanderer. The Premier is fre-
quently accused of talking too much. This
time he didn’t talk. He simply called on
the Central Board of Health, and promptly
the Chief Inspector provided a report of
local food-adulteration. The disclosures con-
tain things like this: Limejuice (so-called) ;
Nine samples analysed: eight “merely con-
coctions of citric acid and water” ; the other
tartaric acid and water. Mustard, one
sample, 75 per cent, flour. Pepper, three out
of six pure; the others from one-third to one-
half pollard. Liquorice powder (largely
used as a medicine for infants) : Two
samples, each half starch. Similar mean
frauds were detected in connection with
baking-powder and chicory. The latter, it-
self an adulterant for coffee, was loaded with
as much as 85 per cent, of roasted grain!
The report concluded grimly:—
These samples were all purchased from well-
known grocers and chemists, still doing business in
the city of Adelaide. Legal proceedings were com-
menced against every one of them, but the first
ease that came on for hearing was dismissed on a
legal technicality, and -it was useless to go any
further with the matter till more effective legisla-
tion could be passed. This legislation we now
have, as witness the milk prosecutions. Milk is
the only article dealt with so far.
The Bulletin has already given an account
of the new South Australian Food and Drugs
Act, and its way of using the axe on milk-
vendors —45 samples analysed, 21 con-
demned ; adulteration up to one-third water.
The “so far” suggests that the turn of the
others is about to come. It is, of course, for
the good of all honest traders that it should
come quickly. For instance, S. Aus. makes
olive-oil that is possibly the finest in the
world, and there is a demand within the
Commonwealth alone for more than it can
produce. Already, however, cotton-seed oil
is mysteriously finding its way into the olive-
juice ; and a very little of that kind of thing
will get the industry ja bad name that might
smash it for years, and ruin the honest pro-
ducer. Probably, in the coming pepper-and-
mustard prosecutions a few innocent re-
tailers will suffer; but they will have been,
at any rate, careless, and will soon learn to
put the blame where it belongs, and to deal
only with manufacturers who are beyond
suspicion. Nor is there the least reason to
believe that other communities are cleaner,
because they have not yet started sweeping
and kicked up the dust. Sydney and Mel-
bourne and Perth and Brisbane and Hobart
are all, beyond reasonable doubt, swallowing
drugs when they think they are drinking
limejuice, and starching their babies’ insides
with the mistaken idea of administering
liquorice. Adelaide has merely—as in so
many other useful reforms —got the axe to
work earliest. They can all follow. There
is no shortage of axes.
-♦
Gentleman and Buccaneer.
A terror of modern life is the “speculative
solicitor.” He is one of the most persistent
and shameless blackmailers in the com-
munity ; yet practically there are no means of
dealing with him. In the present state of
the Australian libel law, no newspaper, how-
ever cautiously run, is safe from him. He
notes, for example, that Jones, an unfinan-
cial bar-acquaintance, has been referred to
in the press in a way that may be twisted
into a misdescription. He draws the atten-
tion of Jones to the glad fact, and men-
tions gently that there is money in it. An ar-
rangement is thus arrived at, whereby Jones
shall proceed against the sheet for damages,
and the speculative attorney conduct the
proceedings on his behalf. If the suit fails,
no injury is done to the plaintiff’s side, since
the gent, one’s time is his own, when not
absorbed by cases of this sort; while Jones
has nothing to lose. If, as may happen, a
goodly purse of damages accrues, Jones
knows the joy of one who unexpectedly
strikes it rich; and the attorney takes his
costs and a lump sum for his “risk.” This
howling injustice is not confined to libel and
slander cases. A citizen cannot bump a
bicycle, or sulky, or trip over a carelessly-
disposed garden hose, or get sacked, or
pushed out of a theatre for being drunk and
disorderly, or fall out of a cab, or off a
wharf or ladder, without a covey of legal
vultures swarming round and sooling him
into a court of law. The prospective de-
fendant is, in nine cases out of ten, blame-
less in the matter, and knows it. But even
if he wins he must pay all his costs —since
the speculative attorney’s client is always
or nearly always, stone-broke—while if he
loses, the bill is liable to be monstrous. It
is not strange, in the circumstances, that
for every such blackmailing action that is
started, a score or more are settled out of
court. Every barrister knows of the exist-
ence of this scandal. Yet the furthest that
even the more reputable of them are pre-
pared to go, in the way of protest against it,
is to lay down a rule that, before having
anything to do with cases in which notori-
ously “speculative” gentlemen one are con-
cerned, they must be paid their fees. It is
painfully, inadequate, regarded as a check on
a harassing abuse of the Law’s processes.
The Victorian case of Grace Bayne v.
Blake and Riggall, where plaintiff's solici-
tor .was ordered to pay all the costs of the
action, indicates that even the Bench, which
is invariably the last to get official knowledge
of legal outrages, is beginning to wake up
and take notice, and resolve that the evil
must be suppressed. But the possibility of
occasional judicial action of the sort —it has
been recently adopted both in England and
in Maoriland —is a mild deterrent at best.
What is needed is a tribunal, specially em-
powered to take evidence regarding suspic-
ious conduct on the part of attorneys—to de-
cide whether the latter’s conduct of any given
matter was or was not rotten and dishonest,
and in the former event to punish the solici-
tor as a racing club tribunal punishes a
crooked owner or trainer. But, pending
that tribunal, the judicial practice lately
adopted in the Blake and Riggall and
other cases is worthy the earnest attention of
all Judges who desire to preserve the reputa-
tion of the “officers” of their courts.
Pursuing a Judge with Intent.
At the recent conference of M.L. trades and
labor councils, held at Christchurch, the bub-
bling resentment against Justice Sim, of the
Arbitration Court, boiled over. A clause
which the Court has attached to some
awards, holding a union to blame for a strike
of only two or three of its members, and can-
celling its general award, was the confer-
ence’s chief worry. By that clause a
double-barrelled penalty is provided—the
statutory penalty against strikers, as laid
down by the Act, and the withdrawal of the
benefits of the Court’s award. Delegates
representing councils from Auckland to
Dunedin, rose in turn and denounced Sim
and his judgments. He was told that his
job was to settle industrial disputes, and
not to legislate for the country; that, al-
though no Judge of the Arbitration Court
had given entire satisfaction, he was the
worst to date; and, finally, that there was
nothing else to be done but to wish him a
safe and speedy departure from his billet.
Instead, however, of resolving “that this con-
ference disagree with the action of Judge
Sim, and recommend that he be relieved,”
a motion to the effect was rejected in favor
of another to protest to the Government
against recent decisions of the Arbitration
Court. So the Ward Government, which is
most friendly, obliging and civil to every-
body who doesn’t talk to it with the serious
end of a piclthandle, will probably go cheer-
fully to work and tinker up the Arbitration
Act some more, to make similar decisions im-
possible. Which always looks inexpensive,
since the public foots the bill; and it can be
done in such a way that everybody is tem-
porarily placated or bewildered with a new
toy, while the Government has a bit of a
rest, or raises another loan. Also, it adds
variety to the tune to be played at election
time. And Labor has got to take it that
way whether lousepii sugarcoats it or not,
because Maoriland Labor is divided wide
enough for the hosts of Israel to walk
through.
+
A Labor Government came into power in
N. S. Wales in October; and, as a Federal
Labor Government is also in office, the whole
business of government in the Ma State has
been in the hands of the tigerish Socialists
for the past six months. The Labor people
denied that they were ravening monsters, of
course, but their opponents scoffed at the
denial, and said that “Labor domination”
meant Ruin. Even the man wiio didn’t join
in the lie about the wholesale bursting of
the wedding-ring had no hesitation in saying
that there was going to be a wholesale flight
of capital from the country. The one test
on this subject of flying capital is supplied
by the banking returns ; and a complete quar-
ter’s figures have just been made available.
For the March quarter of 1910 the average
amount of coin and bullion in the banks in
N. S. Wales was £12,119,000; for the past
three months it has increased to £15,739,000.
Even the 1 hly Telegraph, the chief dis-
tributor of the flying-capital lie, had to ad-
mit —“The banking averages for the March
quarter are record-breakers in the current
accounts, in the interest-bearing deposits and
in the cash.” So another Anti-Labor lie is
nailed. It appears to be nearer the truth
that, so far from the foreign capitalist mis-
trusting the Labor party, he has been im-
pressed with its practical proposals. In
that connection he remembers, anyhow, that
his heaviest losses occurred at a time when
the most virulent Anti-Laborites were in
power, 20 years or so back.
—«.
“Fair Deal”: The Bulletin (27/4/’ll)
comments on the questionable practice of al-
lowing the city to be plastered with imita-
tion voting forms, filled in with a cross where
the partisan wants the voter to put his mark.
It seems that the practice of issuing imita-
tion voting forms, filled in, should be made
illegal altogether; for they may get into
places where they may do incalculable dafn-
age. Leaning over the tfible to give my
name to the returning officer, at a Sydney
suburban booth, my eye was caught by two
pieces of pasteboard bearing an instruction
how to vote. (It happened to be “No,”
though that has little to do with the ques-
tion, except to suggest which party is likely
to adopt such tactics.) I was on the point
of drawing attention to the irregularity of
canvassing cards lying prominently in
the polling-booth: but as it was near
closing time (6.30 p.m.), I thought
they might have been dropped there
by some hurried voter, as-d said no-
thing. At home, however, I mentioned
Not Dangerous.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The most revolutionary of parties are not nearly
so dangerous when they feel the responsibilities of
office. —Tory paper.
When the fight is fought, shall the battle
stand,
A truce of words as your guerdon won?
Shall a nation waiting with empty hand
Call for the deeds that the strong men
shun ?
Once ye were ready to march and dare,
Shoulder to shoulder, a fearless few,
Proud the contempt of the fool to wear
As a badge of the work ye were called to
do.
Never a pause in the onward sweep;
Your drums that beat were the soldier’s
call.
Though the march be long, and the way be
steep,
Will ye halt ere the banners crown the
wall?
Not by the fights that ye fought of old,
But by the faith that ye keep to-day,
Shall a people’s sceptre be yours to hold,
And a nation’s heart be yours to sway.
For deep in the scorn and contempt of years
Are the men who once to a triumph won,
But, conquered at last by their own small
fears,
Betrayed their trust with a task half done.
N.S.W.
MARY McC.


Heartless memo, received from the Census
office: —
Oil comparing: tlie ages of a number of persons, mostly
ladies, with the Birth registers, it has been found that
the ages have been wrongly given in the Census cards.
All persons who have been discovered so far, have been
written to and told that they are liable to a penalty of
£5O. It has clearly become necessary to ascertain how
far this practice has been common. The average amount
of misstatement so far is 8 years. All persons who have
misstated their age are advised to forward their correct
age to the Commonwealth Statistician, Melbourne, with,
out delay, in order to avoid the penalties prescribed by
the Act. .
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery
Is the most wonderful remedy ever discovered for
coughs and colds. It will relieve you when all
others have failed. Is. 6d. and 3s.*
BEARD’S British = Built Bioscope,
second to none. Sole Agents—Jerdan’s
Ltd., 393 George Street, Sydney. Let us send
you particulars.*
HARRINGTONS LTD.,
The Cinematograph
Supply House.
The largest assortment of CINEMATOGRAPHS AND
FILMS always in stock by the World’s best makers.
If you want to procure a better supply of Films than
you are obtaining at present, get into communication
with us and state your requirements. Our Film
Library is the largest in the Commonwealth.
We are the people to give you satisfaction.
SYDNEY MELBOURNE—BRISBANE—ADELAIDE.
MOTOR CAR REPAIRS.
WE do Motor Car Repairs at reasonable rates,
and with promptness and thoroughness.
There’s a reason—in fact, everal. Our
Works at Woolwich, Sydney, are the largest in
the oil engine line in Australia. We have had
more experience than anyone else in Australia
in the actual manufacture of motors. We have
organised and trained a very highly competent
staff.
We do a lot of work for the trade ; we make
crank shafts, cylinders, and so forth. But why not
come to us direct, and cut out the middleman ?
Invincible Motor Construction Co., Ltd.,
Works: Woolwich Dock.
Sydney Showrooms: 35 Pitt Street.
519 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Bank Street, Adelaide.
Franz Josef
Lag'er Beer
SparKling',
Refreshing,
Exhilarating
and Pure.
Franz Josef possesses the true Lager quality
and character, being sharp, clean, and of
light gravity.
the incident, and two members of my house-
hold, who voted one at noon and the other
at 5.45 p.m., remarked that they had seen !
these cards in the voting recesses themselves
alongside the blue pencil. The possible ex-
cuse for the presiding officer (who, in my
opinion, ought to go round the booth at in-
tervals, and see that no over-zealous parti-
san has left an instruction to subsequent
voters) seems badly damaged by my noticing,
the cards on the table in front _of the poll
clerks. This was practically in the city.
It might be interesting to know what hap-
pened in remote country places, where bolder,
steps might possibly be taken.
During the Referenda struggle the Age and
the Argus held up daily, for public admira-
tion, a Prahran workman named J. T.
Packer. Packer was a member of the
Prahran branch of the Political Labor
Council; yet he stood on the same platform
as Judkins, and endorsed many of Jud-
kins’s remarks, and made a speech that won
for him the cordial apnrobation of the
Argus. Naturally the Labor Council asked
him if he didn’t think it was time to send in
his resignation. Then the two papers
raised an uproar in the name of “freedom of
speech,” and the puzzled public was given to
understand that it must stand by “Packer
and liberty.” And nobody asked what, would
have happened supposing Packer had been a
leader-writer on the Argus, and had in-
sisted on his “right” to tell the puoiic that
Deakin was a political fraud, and the whole
Referendum campaign a heavily-loaded at-
tempt to bulldoze the workers. Probably
nobody asked, because everybody knew that
the Argus bosses would, so to speak, lead
that writer by the ear to the front door,
and tell him that his place was in some other
kind of office, and on some other sort of rag.
Or if some canvasser for one of the Argus’s
Fat friends of “the Lane” boosted the fluff-
ware of Brown while he was supposed to be
representing Jones, nobody asked whether
the Argus would not say that the sooner
the disgraceful drummer did the honest
thing, and transferred himself to Brown
the better. And if the drummer talked
about “liberty,” everybody knew that the
Argus would reply with the Argus equiva-
lent for “Rats !”
♦
The Wonthaggi (Vic.) coalminers gave
unionism a lift the other night. One of the
little worries of pretty well every coalfield is
the army of wheelers —youngsters who are
liable to knock off work at any moment, for
almost any cause, and throw the whole con-
cern idle. At the State mine miners and
wheelers are in the same union; but when
one of the wheelers was sacked the other
day, the crowd of wheelers went on strike
without even mentioning the matter to the
organisation or its executive. That night
there was a mass meeting, and, after they
had listened to the remarks of various union
officers for about 15 minutes, the youngsters
began to wonder what was biting them.
They had got a half-baked idea that they
were budding heroes and champions of union-
ism : and when the old hands told them that
they were an undisciplined crowd, and only
about two removes from blacklegs', they be-
gan to think things. The blackleg professes
to ignore the union; these enemies of union-
ism had disregarded it—and there isn’t much
difference between the two. It was a con-
siderably chastened crowd which crept back
to work a few hours later.
♦
The “Black German” s.s. Hanau, bound
from Hamburg to Australian ports, has
arrived at Cape Town with a gaping hole in
her hull. The steamer is said to have struck
a submerged object off the South African
coast. Eight weeks ago the big British
tramp Palatina was hurriedly beached near
East London. She, too, had struck some-
thing where “no bottom” is charted. The
two accidents suggest one of two things—
either the steamers struck the sunken Wara-
tah, or portions of her, or what they struck
the Waratah had struck first. On the facts
given, both theories no doubt have holes in
them; but, all the same, most people will think
that Avhen the accidents are accounted for,
the Waratah will figure somewhere in the ex-
planation. They certainly ought to be ac-
counted for; and, considering the volume of
Australian traffic round the Cape of Good
Hope, it is up to the British Admiralty to
give some of the warships a job in getting to
the bottom of the mystery.
The Age and the Argus were one in word,
deed and thought against the Referenda;
but the harmoniousness of their leaders of
the 27th was almost miraculous. The
Argus anticipated “a gross and insulting
explanation that the decisive defeat of the
Caucus proposals is due to the bribery of the
electors by monopolies and rings.” The Age
prophesied: “The defeated side will com-
plain that it had to fight imaginary trusts
and monopolies.. .It will be said that the
arts of corruption were exercised as they
were never used before.” Both papers went
on to protest heatedly that these presumptive
explanations would be preposterous, insult-
•ng and unworthy. “Where has the money
gone? Who has received it?” demanded the
Argus angrily. Surely these two elderly ladies
do protest too much ! It would almost appear
that they were acting sympathetically on the
principle of “Don’t prophesy unless you
know,” and were inspired with a fear that
the other fellow did know'.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOE COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Jack and the Beanstalk.”
Royal “ Our Miss Gibbs.”
Criterion “The Woman in the Case.”
'Adelfiii “ The Bad Girl of the Family.”
Glaciarium West’s Pictures.
Palace West’s Pictures.
Tivoli Rickards’ Vaudeville. Co.
Lyceum Spencer’s Pictures.
Prince Alfred Park.. Wirths’Circus (closing Saturday).
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ The Merry Widow.”
Theatre Royal “The Belle of Brittany.”
Princess’s “ The Dawn of a To-Morrow.”
King’s “ The Squatter’s Daughter.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville (Jo,
West’s Palace West’s Pictures.
Glaciarium Taits’ Pictures.
Olympia Spencer’s Pictures
Lyric, Prahran Photo Plays.
■ ♦
“Jack and the Beanstalk” is still at Her
Majesty’s, Sydney. Audiences have caught
on to Jack Cannot’s chorus song, and howl
it on the scantiest encouragement; the
Pantzers are well, likewise the Giant’s legs,
and generally things are booming.
** * *
At last J.C.W. makes a small change at
the Sydney Royal—he takes off his Hollar
Queen and puts on the Dollar Princess in-
stead. The Queen, whose other name is
Miss G —bbs (The Bulletin has sworn not
to mention her again at less than £237 per
letter), will go on Wednesday, May 10, and
the Princess is due on the lucky l3th. Flor-
ence Young, Olive Godwin, Roberts and the
others will have their old parts.
#* * *
At Sydney Criterion, the infamous career
of “The Woman in the Case” is drawing to
a close. Those who have not enjoyed the
luxury of scandalised amazement which is
induced by this female’s machinations, are
hereby warned that they have but 10 days
to repair the omission.
** * *
During the past three weeks “The Bad
Girl of the Family” has been doing her
worst before about 50,000 people (on the
manager’s affidavit) at the Adelphi, Sydney.
George Marlow says he can’t reform her
while such regrettable encouragement is
given her by the public; but as soon as the
public sees the error of its conduct, the
young woman will be discharged. Probably
she will be too old to work by then.
« Dt « *
R. A. Roberts, the quick-change artist,
will make his final appearances as six people
and a pirate at Sydney Tivoli this (Thurs-
day) evening. Variety is the spice of life,
and the quick-changer is the man who is best
able to supply it. Violent revolutionaries
like Bruce Smith well know how many lives
and homes are wrecked by plain, dull mon-
otony. The wife who has watched the same
old husband pottering about for 10 or 15
years, and the plain brown husband who has
observed the same neutral-tinted wife out
of the corner of his eye for a decade or two,
frequently yearn in secret that the other
partner could be a bit different occasionally.
If married couples would take lessons from
talented actors, and learn thoroughly the art
of making complete and artistic changes, the
“till-death-do-us-part” clause in the marriage
contract would have less terrors for a lot
of people who doubt their staying capacity.
Peggy Pryde, Delino, Tom Dawson, Black
and White, and Vaude and Verne will be the
performers mainly responsible for the bill
after Thursday; but reinforcements are ex-
pected.
“ THE WOMAN IN THE CASE ,” AT
SYDNEY CRITERION.
The doubting lawyer (Hugh Buckler) and the
self-righteous hero (G. K. Souper).
Prince Alfred Park (Sydney) will have a
vacancy for a circus after Saturday night,
when Wirths’ big show will end its season,
and the blood-perspiring hippo., the Flying
Jordans, the shapely wire-walkers, the horses
and other appurtenances will get into line
behind the band waggon and hit the trail.
Business has been so good during the long-
season that a permanent circus looks a pay-
able speculation, but the Wirths say they
owe a duty to the country, and they are go-
ing to pay it and collect the change.
** * *
West’s Pictures will shortly be putting on
the magnificent production of “Henry VIII.,”
which was played for the English branch of
the world-wide picture firm by Sir Herbert
Tree and his famous company. The film is
now in Sydney, but the date of the first
night is not yet fixed. At present West’s are
booming in Sydney at the Glaciarium and the
Palace Theatre, and on Saturday the Bijou,
remodelled, beautified and enlarged, will be
opened as the Princess. The star item of
the present programme is the Grand Na-
tional of 1911, when at Aintree, England,
out of a record field, only one horse did not
fall. And no doubt the cine-man who
turned the handle reflected, as he “took”
that thrilling race, that it’s a slippery course
that brings good luck to no one.
*# * *
At Sydney Lyceum “The Fatal Wedding”
is still being celebrated, and the Spencerian
staff has risen to the occasion. The door-
way is powdex*ed with confetti, and, up
above, some patent machinery reproduces the
ringing of the wedding-bells. Inside, the
tin-can band makes its fearful music while
the figures flit life-like across the screen, and
it is hard to believe that the shadows on the
canvas do not make the commotion.
** * *
Miss Lily Mackenzie Seton’s farewell con-
cert, under Mrs. Quesnel’s direction, comes
off on the 9th May in the Y.M.C.A. Hall.
Miss Seton will later on pack up her soprano
voice for Europe, and depart in peace by
Orient mail boat on May 27. Mrs. Alex.
Gordon is vigorously assaulting the sale-of-
tickets problem for Miss Seton’s good-bye.
Alfred Hill has written an orchestral ac-
companiment (for this concert) to his
“Maori Love Song,” and the members of an
invisible chorus will blend their voices in the
refrain.
*# * *
The awkwardly-titled emotional drama,
“The Dawn of a To-morrow,” produced at
Melbourne Princess’s on Saturnight, is a
sermon in action —a sermon in which,
as usual, sensibility is substituted for
common-sense. This was to be expect-
ed from Mrs. Frances Hodgson Bur-
nett, authoress of that famous ex-
cursion in domestic bathos, “Little Lord
Fauntleroy.” It would appear that Mrs.
Burnett is an exponent of the art of mental
healing. She philosophises in four acts on
the power of faith to overcome all the ills
to which man is heir-presumptive, and to
make woman’s smile eternal, even in the
absence of a gold tooth and a new tube
skirt. The preacher-in-chief of her gospel
of hard wishing and patient waiting is a
small, vulgar, gutter-bred optimist, with a
violently red head, a mixed costume of odds
and ends gleaned from the raw material of a
shoddy mill, and a habitation and a name at
Apple Blossom Court, in a particularly dis-
agreeable and unmannerly London slum.
* * * *
Glad has picked up her rudimentary know-
ledge of the scientific principles of sainted
Mrs. Eddy in hospital, while suffering from
broken legs, and sets all the female popula-
tion of Apple Blossom Court praying fer-
vently for the things its soul craves for,
“ostridge fevvers” and beer chiefly. To
Glad in a fog comes Sir Oliver Holt, a man
with insupportable masses of money and a
naughty nephew. Sir Oliver is disguised as
an honest man in old clothes and a crying
need of a bath. His pleasant intention is to
dodge irrevocable madness by blowing out
his brains in a noisome quarter, and leaving
his shattered remains on the parish to be dis-
posed of as unclaimed goods. His exact
object in going to all this trouble is not
convincingly set forth. However, Glad
takes hold of Sir Oliver Holt, and begins to
get in her good work. Incidentally she is
praying herself out of a peck of trouble.
Her best boy, one Dandy, is earnestly sought
after by Scotland Yard, because of the sud-
den and painless death of an old gentleman
who had thrust his head in the way of a
burglar’s implements of trade. Out of the
manner in which the faith of the young
woman removes mountains and shifts ills,
Mrs. Frances Hodgson Burnett makes her
play. Glad strikes impressive attitudes,
wishes fervently, and waits with a frigid ex-
pression ; then slowly the gates of. circum-
stance unfold, and the desired thing comes to
pass. To provide temporarily effective situa-
tions in this way is easy; but you’ve got to
pull the long leg of coincidence till the limb
is painfully out of joint. Mrs. B. pulls with a
traction engine. Glad prays her Dandy out
of danger, and into a line of holy living; she
starts the bedevilled millionaire in a new
career of expensive and promiscuous philan-
thropy ; she saves the immortal soul of all
Apple Blossom Court.
* * * *
Miss Katherine Grey’s performance as
Glad is a series of effective bits. At odd
moments she is fine, but the sweep is not
continuous, and Glad would have to be acted
in a sort of unrelaxing artistic frenzy to carry
her through triumphantly in defiance of the
captious worldliness of a sceptical genera-
tion. Winton Hall’s Sir Oliver Holt is gently
done and well, but the part is littered with
discrepancies, and has no distinction. Wil-
liam Desmond’s Dandy is tuned to the right
pitch, and has some value and force as a
human document Cyril Mackay presents a
conventional dissipated nephew in an ac-
ceptable way, naught extenuating, and set-
ting down nothing in malice. Quite a num-
ber of capable actors and actresses are figur-
ing in incidental characters. Miss Susie
Vaughan casts a faint glow of humor in the
gloom of Apple Blossom Court as a slum wife
with a perennial black eye. Atholwood is a
distinguished physician; but a distinguished
physician in a drama cannot have more
brains than the dramatist, and it’s Athol-
wood’s misfortune to have to impersonate a
celebrated scientist who talks like Marie
Corelli —or Mrs. Hodgson Burnett. Miss
Alma Vaughan, Miss Flo Gleeson, Leslie
Victor and Boyd Irwin are good in little.
There were various indications on Saturday
night that the drama had run in hurriedly
out of the wet, but no doubt it is very much
the better for wear these later evenings.
“THE MERRY WIDOW” AT HER
MAJESTY'S, MELBOURNE.
Charles Albert
as Nisch, the
Messenger.
Reginald Roberts , as the
Vicomte Camille de foil-
don, singeth of Love.
For a few more nights at Her Majesty’s
(Melb.) “The Merry Widow” will supply
its three fat courses of haunting music, with
erotic entrees and saccharine tablets. The
present edition of “The Widow,” like its
predecessors, is proving financially success-
ful. The company is also generally satis-
factory, though none of the males are suffi-
ciently delightful in their amorous moments.
They want nourishing on a diet of soft-soap
and glucose.
* * * -*
At the Melbourne Royal Raymond de St.
Gautier is still pursuing “The Belle of Brit-
tany,” what time pa discourses on gentle
sausages. The old noble is instructive and
verbose on those little mysteries, but he is
cruel in suggesting that they serve their full
purpose as common edibles. As a matter of
fact, sausages are only in their infancy as
regards their uses. Mayors, for instance,
will employ them in the form of official
necklets, so soon as they realise that don-
ning frank forts is a way of putting on dog.
** * *
At the Melbourne King’s to-morrow even-
ing The Arion Society should finish its brief
appearance in “La Mascotte,” which was
announced to commence last Tuesday night.
Then W. Anderson will resurrect “The
Squatter’s Daughter” on Saturday, instead
of the threatened “Sorrows of Satan,”
it being understood that Satan is slightly
backward in his training. It is suspected
that he has been spending time in Referen-
duming instead of in Rehearsing.
-& * * *
In mentioning the Opera House bill this
week one requires no load of buttered super-
latives. The programme is good to middling,
with some patches of cleverness supplied by
the Zanfrellas, Australian Dartos and Yetta,
the wire performer. Miss Cromer Challis,
mentioned last week, is at present warbling
a ditty regarding George V. The Bulle-
tin was specially requested to hear this
song, and, having heard it, says fervently,
“God Save the King!”
** * *
The gloom of Melbourne Athenaeum has
been dispersed by the arrival of the Royal
Hawaiians. Ernest Kaai is the leader of
the group, and his mandolin and ukulele
solos are precious little items of verve and
vivacity. R. Kaawa is heard in “Moki-
liana,” which seems to contain an incanta-
tion to a dusky Cupid. J. Kamakani uses
his bass to good effect, and the sweet voice
of Miss Iveala makes clever excursions up
the higher reaches of the stave. Also, there
is Miss Etela’s hula dance, with about one
motion and several Oriental meanings. The
item is strange, but the costume of the lady
is stranger. It appears to consist of scarlet,
with an overskirt of straw, plus a pair of
nobby doormats to keep the draught off her
ankles.
** * *
“In the Hands of the Impostors,” at
Melbourne Glaciarium, represents the Taits’
latest sermon in pictures. The story, dearly
beloved, circles about a sinful crew who try
to secure a girl for the oldest trade on earth.
She, however, resists all the persuasions,
and is finally rescued from the gang by Vir-
tue in foreign whiskerings. The sermon
takes about an hour to deliver, but it doesn’t
seem half that long, for time goes quickly
when one is being reformed by the view of


•for Cash
'Where th z
, 90 r -
-5Ac Suit
Costs,^
Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED,
PIXX AND KING SXREEXS, SYDNEY,
Lowest Rates Charged,
’Phone No. 236 Central.
FIRE ACCIDENT, EMPLOYERS’ LIABILITY,
Settlements Prompt and 'Equitable.
SYDNEY H. CARY', Chairman.
PLATE GLASS, Etc.
G. HOWARD POPE, Manager.
Motor Street Cleaners.
The Renault Co. of Paris appear to be always
leading the world in automobile matters, and
their latest achievement is the supplying to the
city of Paris a number of motor-driven street
sweepers. The experiment is a distinct success,
and our city council would do well to enquire into
such an invention.*
an abduction, some fights, and a thrilling
escape upon the housetops.
** * *
“Jean and the Waif,” turned on at Mel-
bourne Olympia last Saturday night, tells
of a ragged youngster who goes for
a mother in a wonderful imitation of a Yan-
kee blizzard. Soon she happens on a dwell-
ing where the only suggestion of a family is
a petted tike snoozing in a cot in canine
pyjamas. The infant snuggles up to the
hairy sleeper, and is in the middle of a large
and friendly hug, when she is snatched up
and adopted by the animal’s owners. Alto-
gether the picture has many points that will
appeal to the multitude, though this paper
cordially disapproves of the insanitary fond-
ling of the cherished hound.
*****
At the Melbourne Masonic last Friday
evening Mis Maud Grantham accompanied
Alice through the Wonderland of Lewis Car-
roll. The trip occupied something over two
hours, and Miss Grantham’s humorous de-
scriptions on the journey were received with
a polite chorus of titters in the reserved sec-
tions of the hall. As on other occasions, the
lady showed herself an engaging elocutionist,
with a charming aptitude for wearing nice
clothes. Incidentally she obtained full vo-
cal am from a good nuartette, which sang
Lehmann’s cycle of “Nonsense Songs.”
** * *
The two Lillies, making their first Austra-
lian appearance at Adelaide Tivoli, prove
to be the usual step-dancing sisters, plus
a bright idea. That the machine-like exact-
ness of step may be the more manifest, they
do it one in front of the other. The first
Lillie floats gracefully about an empty stage,
then draws aside a curtain, and is, appar-
ently, reflected in a mirror. When she
faces the audience, and the reflection conse-
quently has its back to them and her, the
absolute identity of movement is a delicate
matter. Cooper and Lait have moved on,
but a request is hereby sent after the male
partner to drop saying, or half saying, a
word that is familiar in street rows, but out
of place on the stage. True, he is skilful
enough to gain laughter by this trick ; but
it really isn’t worth while. The William-
son juveniles have finished their “Florodora”
season at the Royal. The rank-and-file
WILLIAM
ANDERSON ,
PURVEYOR
OF BELLOW-
DRAMAS.
wv. re 1 ? tie ener sy their movements.
When the beauteous maidens have to shrink
t! ' om au unpopular character, or surround
an old gentleman-with-money, these pocket-
editions do it with a dash and rapidity which
the well-nourished adult chorus-lady simply
could not rival. There is a skilful imita-
tion ot George Lauri, and another of Palotta,
b ~t . f° rri e Allan is perhaps the young person
the most promise for the year 1920.
Ine Max Maxwell Co. has now come in for
a short season. The question of Sunday
shows is hung up for the moment. One
management has got a verdict for damages
because the Government refused to let it
j e p x hibition on a Sunday, though
it had a lease of the premises; and another
has _ successfully resisted prosecution for
wm ni n g ' 3t seems likel y that nobody
vill be able to get round the Yerran Gov-
ernments autocratic ruling that each pro-
meet with the approval of
the Chief Secretary; for in practice ne’er a
2?® the Chief Sec. being in reality
Chief Wow., or thereabouts.
“Flinderino” describes a Northern show: —
Cairns has lately been having- its old-established
annual water frolics on a large scale. The programme
opened with a cyclone, in which iron-roofing, out-
houses and building material gave a display of aero-
planics. A heavy rain-turn followed, and for several
days the ordinary-sized rain-gauge had to be emptied
every few hours to keep up with the performance.
Uncertain as to whether another cyclone might be on
the programme as an extra, the audience secured
the lids of its houses by passing ropes and wires over
the roofs and weighting each end with big logs, old
stoves, or anything heavy. In a rapid transforma-
tion-scene the street gutters appeared as rivers and
hid the earth, and the Pacific Ocean at every high
tide walked up the lower streets and hung its skirts
on the top rail of the fences. Diving contests, off
verandah and balcony railings, were indulged in;
also swimming races to the summer-house and back.
A party of “sports” boarded a “flatty,” and rowed
through the town. In the main street they entered
the side door of an hotel, tied their craft up to the
bar, drank, and then navigated the boat out through
the front door amid loud and prolonged cheers.
AT POVERTY POINT.
Ernest Wunderlich, good friend of Sydney artists,
is leaving for Europe, where he contemplates a long
stay; so the professional musicians “smoked” him
at their club-rooms on Sunday night. A feature of
the concert consisted of four of the compositions of
the guest. The first was a song, “By the Willows”
(words by Fred J. Broomfield), most sympathetically
sung by brother Alfred Wunderlich. The three other
pieces were set to English words from the German
by Rudolph Baumbach. “The Stars in the Sky
Above Me” was a stirring work, also admirably ren-
dered by. brother Alfred; while “’Tis May That’s
Approaching” and “Good Night” were well sung by
Emil Sussmilch.
A yarn of Yankee leg-pulling. As the last echo
of a Sousa overture died away the U.S. General
Schofield once stepped up and greeted the con-
ductor. “Beautiful, beautiful!” said the General
warmly. “But I’m astonished that you get such
good results with so little discipline.” Sousa, who
worships Discipline in the same temple as he does
Music, was staggered, and said so. “You say you’ve
never noticed it?” said the General affably. “Of
course not! But it’s true all the same. The mo-
ment you turn your back on one side of your band to
shake your stick at the other, the blighters on vour
blind side all quit playing. Of course you don’t see
it!”
“Pabst”: An Adelaide rumor insists that Fanny
Powers, of a hundred Rickards shows, is to marry
one “Billy” Foote, a local me i •■-fiend. “Billy”
sells tea to wholesale tea houses when not entertain-
ing mummers.
“Silas”: It was during the Easter crush, and
they were talking of packed houses. “The densest
audience I ever saw,” said the Oldest Act-or, “rolled
up to witness my performance of Ingomar at the
Aleck. There were only 14 people present, cer-
tainly, but, begad, sir, they were so dense they threw
onions at my astonishingly-vital impersonation of the
barbarian.”
George Darrell has gone back to the Tights, with
George Marlow, who is putting on one of the other
George s home-grown plays, “The Verge of Sin.”
“A Von”: Shakspeare’s anniversarv passed just
about in Australia; I don’t know a
house’ that had a Shakspearian performance. How
different m Germany, the real land of Shakspeare!
V' I 'V- (,| b v and town is familiar with the whole round
of ,his plays. Wretchedly meagre the Australian
fare has been. Cast up the best Sydney and Mel-
bourne have seen. For Othello and lago Brooke was
Echpse first.” Yet was Rignold’s Othello good,
with Diver s Iago; and Barrett’s- Othello was more
than fair. The best Hamlets were Adams, Mont-
gomery and Sullivan. Besides these we have had
four lady Hamlets: Cleveland, Evans, Edouin and
Pomeroy. Rignold’s mother excelled in Hamlet and
Komeo. The best King Lear seen here was Sheri-
dan s, moulded on Forrest and. Booth; the best
Richard 111., Sullivan’s. Macbeth seems never to
have been quite well done on this continent, but I
found creditable points in those of Bentley and King-
S t° n T l a,s ° Bentley’s Hamlet. Sullivan was
about the best Benedick and Brutus. Give me Nora
ln Rosalind, though I have pleasant memories
of Mrs. Scott-Siddons. Maybe Asche bears the palm
. and Jaques; close run between Asche
Mil, I l olke , r ln . Betruchio, and Margaret’ Anglin and
fhfn w rr° n Kathanne- Asche was rather better
than W. Rignold as Falstaff; and, for a final dip into
the sea G. Rignold’s Caliban and Bottom were
noteworthy,
“L.H.P ”: “Charles 1.,” which is among H. B.
Irving s novelties for Australia, was one of the
best things V. G. Wills ever wrote. He is chiefly
JSSHL ,t° Austrahans by T his “Royal Divorce,”
~, ’ T -ledea, and Jane Shore.’ 9 Produced
iumn 187 t * WaS a success from the
pimp. Old Bateman, known as “the Colonel ” who
then managed the Lyceum, insisted on domestic
scenes for Acts I. and IV. His argument wasthat
srzj&s ‘vsv*, -a,*--
‘a** -iii
act is brighter, and conveys the domestic hap-
piness of the monarch at Hampton Court Gardens.
The cast is small—six adults and three children—
but the play grips all the same. The play has been
nearly 40 years in reaching Australia. The explana-
tion is that Irving, pere, always kept his fist on it
in case he should_ make an Australian tour. He had
so few novelties in his repertoire that he could not
afford to sub-let any he had. On his first visit to
America it was “Charles I.” that assured the success
of his New York season. But it was left to son H.
B. to introduce the play to Australia.
“Blue Mask”: Mrs. “Trilby” Irving is far from the
days when she could rattle through a hocky or tennis
match, or ride a-wheel with the best. About the only
outdoor recreation she indulges in to-day is motor-
ing; and even then the speed has to be slow, and the
distance not more than 30 miles, or her strength is
overtaxed.
Drama, with an Australian setting, and quite in-
nocent of either bushrangers or squatters, gets its
chance at Princess’s Theatre, Melbourne, next July,
when a string of Randolph Bedford’s plays get their
chance. Long ago, in old Pluck-up, outside of
Broken Hill, and ante-dating Broken Hill as a silver
discovery, there was one woman on the field, and all
the men were in love with her, more or less, and in
different ways. The First Lady had a tragic ending.
Bedford has taken the romantic yarn and turned it
about, and trimmed it with the character-studies of a
new rush, never before used by an Australian, "and
probably never before used with the right knowledge.
“Pluck-up” begins the season, and either “New
Chum Gold” or “The Love Child” (more drama by
Randolph) follow it.
“Sinnicuss”: The Williamson management has de-
cided to make a donation to the Sydney Hospital.
That Js to say, for the last night of “Our Miss
Gibbs” —a function to which every worshipper of
coryphees and “Society” aspirant in the- town is
bound to crowd—the ordinary charge for Stalls and
circle seats will be raised to 10s., and half the pro-
ceeds will be handed to the distressed institution.
It is one of the most delightfully Caledonian bits
of charity that has come within my purview.
“Hamer”: With a desperate desire to keep its
functions select, a dancing club advertises: “Ad-
mission—Gents., Is.; ladies on approval.” The in-
dividual who has to give the approval is up against
a pretty bad time, if he approves too generally he
will have to meet the inspired objections of Bill
Jones, whose girl works at a hat-factory, and who
objects to rubbing shoulders with Jack Johnson’s
girl, who toils in a pickle-factory. And if he with-
holds his approval he will meet—well, he will pro-
bably meet it at the first corner. The job of ap-
prover should be a nice lively occupation, and it
ought to be worth £5O a week.
Consul 11., the famous “educated” ape, recently
broke away from his cage at the Lafayette Theatre,
New York. Once free, the animal dropped his semi-
human gentility, and, with a growl of anger, lum-
bered on to the stage and seized the most tasty-
looking soubrette available, ’[’lie lady naturally ob-
jected ; the audience also objected ; and, as the lady
is a good draw, so did the management. The oppo-
sition, however, did not deter the simian, which
began by biting the lady’s face. At latest accounts,
both were feeling poorly.
“Stony”: A “college of music” advertises—“No
sharps, flats, scales or exercises to learn; tunes first
lesson. Fee, one guinea.” No flats to learn? But
how many to teach?
“Tempo”: Adelaide’s Mrs. F. H. Pollock, who until
recently was the only woman-lessee of a theatre in
Australia, said “I will” once again a few days ago,
to the consternation of the Holy City. The bride is
not so young as she was, and the bridegroom reached
the age of indiscretion about the middle of last cen-
tury. Still it is the happy ending of an old love.
“Blue Mask”: Twenty-seven years ago William-
son, Garner and Musgrove were running a “Jack
and the Beanstalk” pantomime at the Sydney Royal,
with Nellie Stewart as “Jack.” I merely mention
this to contrast The Bulletin’s criticism of the
1884 show with that of the Beanstalk now sprout-
mg at Her Majesty’s. Bulletin (13/4/’ll) says:
Year by year pantomime gets nearer and nearer
to musical comedy, inasmuch as they approximate
more closely to vaudeville. The show
k? a ?" s ,, a U, recor ds in the matter of sparseness of
plot. The Bulletin critic of the 1884 panto, re-
portea that it was doing solid business “despite
the feeblest libretto an audience was ever cursed
with. Pantomime is dead. The show at the Royal
is a burlesque—a well-made pastry pudding (bar the
aforesaid libretto) of jingle, breakdown, whimsy-
fantastical, limelight, and the nearest approach to
the naked truth in the' human form divine we ever
blushed at. Anybody remember when there was a
real pantomime in Sydney? By the way, what is
real pantomime ?
Snell”: Every time I see an imported dancer
prance out, after unstinted advt., I wonder more
than before at the folly of allegedly-gifted manage-
ments m going to the ends of the earth for ambllrs
of such sorts. Iye four or five importations in mind,
all of whom could be out-pranced by local girls of
unrecognised merit. There are at present at least
a score of girls in three clutches, who want only one
thing to make them great dancers—and the one
thing is a dance. Give a fairly good Williamsonian
gl -l “real y good dance, and you can back her
with the whole week’s wash to skip right into the
hearts of her countrymen. Good dances make
dancers, and it is surprising, in view of the enormous
drawing. value of a striking dance, to mark what
little skill is devoted to the devising of the goods.
Australian girls are astonishingly clever on their toes.
vZIJZT C CV< L r dances, and you needn’t go raking
Europe for limber limbs. The feature of William
TnvtUJfJ n u e P PCra - C Z is its bri & ht ballets.
could be done with two or three of these
kiddies if we had a dance-maker with devilish in-
genuity. The devilment is essential.
‘W - I want my money back as a protest
against the un-Australian character of the legions of
pictures thrown nightly on the screens of assorted
flickergraphs. The proprietors boast loudly about
tbe educational value of their flickers, and proceed
° W f 0 C . and young the desperate deeds of red
Indians, farming in Canada, fruit growing in Cali-
fornia sheep shearing in the Argentine, gold mining
!" Alaska, horse-breaking in Texas, views of the
ClrCle ’ - Ut , nary a view of °ur own
™ a ? occasl °nal picture of George-street
ruvu lh Tf S ' Street ’ ° r a bushranger out of Deadwood
Dick. If a manager wants a tip, let him procure a
series of Northern Territory scenes. It’ll pay.
“The Chocolate Soldier,” secured for Australia by
Clarke and Meynell, is making money a nuisance to
the play s American producers. At Pittsburg, the
takings in one week were £5250. This sum in-
chicled the receipts from a novelty—a “milkman’s
matinee, which began at 10 on a Saturdav morning
“Borob”: During: the . recent rains in Northern
Bananaland, St. Leon s circus was held up for seven
weeks cm the banks of the Burdekin—unable to
cross. This stream drains a big patch of country,
and, unlike other trickles, which go down quickly it
recedes at the rate of about an inch a day. When
the troupe eventually managed to cross, the bands-
men promptly decamped. There’s more skittles than
beer about a circus fife in North Queensland.
“St. S.”:G. P. Huntley’s peculiar humor is all his
own, and it doesn’t matter whether his stage is
theatre or music-hall—he takes possession of it all
the same. He has just drifted into London Pavilion
where he plays in a duologue, “Buying a Gun ” The
f£ ene 3 , 5 , a S'™ sh °P> and he chatters on about the fee
the caddy will ask for carrying the weapon: and the
proper place to hit a bird; and the necessity for
having guns to match his socks, and so on, all in
the inconsequent but immensely popular way which
Australia remembers in “Three Little Maids.”
Judging by the evidence at the coal vend
trial, one witness was so indignant at the news he
had received of a “job” in which certain
politicians were involved that he straightway
went and cashed his indignation for £5O.
Dutton Green, who died in Adelaide the
other day, was a member of the Assembly for two
yea,rs in the days when to be reputed rich and to
be in “the swim” was enough to secure a man
election if he chose to seek a Parliamentary seat.
Except to look pretty—he was an Adonis—he did
nothing in Parliament.
The driver of the team shown in George
W. Lambert’s “Across the Black Soil Plains”
was drowned in the Barwon a little while ago
while swimming horses across to get some feed.
His name was Jack McGowen. He was drowned
a fortnight before the date fixed for his marriage.
Died of typhoid, W. N. Dove, N.S.W.
stipendiary magistrate. In 1909 the Broken Hill
miners were on strike, and the Government took
several precautions to preserve the peace. Among
them it sent up the appropriately named Dove as
a temporary S.M. When the troubles subsided
his appointment was made a permanent one.
Lately he contracted typhoid, and a fatal heart
trouble supervened.
The members of the State Legislature in
S. Aus. are sad because the referendum concern-
ing the £lOO a year increase in their salaries was
taken on the same day as the Federal plebiscite.
All the Federal “Noes” went down on the State
papers, while many of the “Yes ” brigade tossed
the State ballot slips away without marking them.
The result was a two-to-one majority against the
desired rise in screw. The present pay is £2OO a
year.
A layman, writing on the eternal Sydney
Anglican ecclesiastical-vestments question, re-
marks, apropos the quoted dictum of Archbishop
Wright that the use of vestments is “contrary to
the Constitution of the Church as we have it ” :
His Grace has recently been pleased to appear in St.
Andrew’s Cathedral, for the first time in its history, with
a scarlet train and train-bearers, for all the world like a
Cardinal without his hat. So that we are all proud to
think that we are almost as grand as they are at St.
Mary’s.
On the night when the Referendum poll
was declared, the Geelong (Vic.) correspondent of
the Argus, full of unholy joy, relaxed his hold on
the weazand of Truth for a few moments. In
consequence, the following words were printed in
the next morning’s paper :
All bodies affiliated to the Council of the Leagues have
worked admirably for the past two months, especially the
Women’s National League. The result was manifest
to-day in the capital system for bringing voters to the
booths. Dozens of motor-cars and other vehicles, bearing
streamers of blue and white, the colors of the party, flitted
everywhere, and few voters were overlooked.
Anti-Socialism naked and unashamed !
A German surgeon last week described to
a gathering of spectacled brother man-repairers
how he had constructed a new gullet out of an in-
testine and some outer skin, for a suicidal frau
who had burnt out her original food-and-drink
canal with a draught of sulphuric acid ; some-
where else a man had had his hip repaired with a
flake taken from a corpse ; and in America some
hospital doctors are just finishing the job of put-
ting a new face on an unfortunate railway worker,
whose countenance was ruined by falling into a
set of revolving cogs. It makes the reader rise
and cheer, till he remembers that'gout has not
been abolished, and that rheumatism, neuralgia,
catarrh, cold-in-the-head and a few hundred
other things still worry himself and the neighbors,
despite the brass plates and the bills. Medical
science seems to be able to patch and sew and do
freak-jobs well enough; but a simple ache or
sniffle makes it look like a fool.
More capital, it seems, has been driven
out of the country ; and John Murray is the guilty
party this time. Though compulsory voting is
not law in Victoria, people who refuse to give
their names and other necessary particulars to the
police who do the electoral canvass are liable to
prosecution. Now, a community of 30 of the
Chosen People had established themselves at
Kyneton ; and when the roll-collector called he
was told that the followers of tfrr-Qne True Light
had conscientious scruples against both enrolment
and military service, wherefore they would give
no information whatever. Then John Murray
took a hand, and ordered that the Chosen People
should be enrolled or prosecuted. The Law went
back ; but half of the sect, having got wind of the
“persecution,” had left the country, and the other
half said it was going as soon as it‘had packed up
its wings. So John Murray decided not to take
further action—which is what John loves doing
better than anything else in the world.
The arrival in Sydney of the Japanese
Antarctic exploring schooner Kainan Maru last
Monday is satisfactory evidence that the partv
never intended to try for the South Pole after
sailing from Wellington (M.L.)in February, or
that it was singularly ignorant of the weather
conditions at the feet of the world. With no
ponies, only sufficient dogs for one eight-dog
sledge, and a general appearance of poor equip-
ment, the little schooner sailed toolatein the season
to get through the ice—provided it was through
the ice she was to be steered, which isn’t at all
certain. In fact, nothing is clear about the expedi-
tion, except that in Wellington (M.L.) its mem-
bers couldn’t speak English, German or Chinese,
but in Sydney they can speak English with ease.’
In one breath they explain that they are going to
dash for the Pole ; in another, they say they are
merely a southern scientific outfit. One thing
alone is certain—that Lieut. Shirase is here with
his small ship and big sword and spurs. His
announced intention is to remain here for six
months—“ waiting for the spring.” What spring
isn’t mentioned.
AN AUSTRALIAN CHORUS SONG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It is stated that the trusts and combines of Aus-
tralia spent £lOO,OOO to defeat the recent Referenda
proposals. This works out at sixpence per head of
population.
Chorus of Fat Men:
We care not a dump for the Federal crew,
The national dreams are dead ;
Our waistcoats swell, and the skies are blue,
The mob are blind to the things we do—
We bought ’em at sixpence a head !
Chorus of Thin Men:
What are you backing at the races?
Let’s have a ticket on the sweep!
George-street’s full of pretty faces,
And old Bill Smith is still asleep!
Chorus of Fat Men:
We gather the rents, and we stow the swag,
On plunder our souls are fed,
There are plenty of fish in the nets we drag,
And the people have never a tongue to wag—-
We bought ’em at sixpence a head!
Chorus of Thin Men:
Who was it mentioned Referenda?
Wake us when the thing is getting near !
Tell us when you think it’s time to send a
Billy round the corner for a beer!
Chorus of Fat Men:
This is a glorious land and free,
Let never a tear be shed,
The New Protection is up in a tree,
And Australia’s citizens all agree
To serve us for sixpence a head!
Chorus of Thin Men:
Who’s this bloke that’s come to wake us?
’Ere, take your carcase off my chest!
Strike me pink ! It’s Fat who’s come to take us
Back to dig his garden with the rest!
Grand Chorus of Fat Men:
The wool shall grow in our trusty land,
Where glorious mutton is bred,
Our hopes are high, and our faith is grand,
There is nothing Australian fools won’t stand,
We "bought ’em at sixpence a head!
N.S.W.
PAT O’MAORI.
THE LEADING LADY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It was the beauteous show-girl who
Paid “Home” a duty visit;
Her parents were surprised—the two
Cried out, “It ain’t you, is it!”
The very latest hat she wore;
Her costume was delicious;
He r P°°r old-fashioned ma gasped, “Lor!”
Then looked a bit suspicious.
You must be gettin’ on , my dear—
« The „public taste you’ve hit it!”
Yes,” said the maid, in accents clear.
I can’t help but admit it:
“I’ve never let a chance slip by”
Beneath her hat so shady
She blushed and cried, “Oh, Mother I
Am now a leading lady!” ’
It satisfied her kith and kin ; '
Biit I’ve a dark suspicion’
t>he s leading as a surf-girl in <
A picture competitionl
N.S.W.
C. OCKNEY.


THE RANGER SUIT —12/6
THE smart suit illustrated here is new for Winter Wear
and a general favorite of the “small boy.’ Made of
good warm Tweeds in Grey, Green and Brown—and
quite as suitable for best wear as for school, and will stand
hard wear and retain its manly cut and fit. The Blouse is
unlined ; knickers are cut with Plain Knees ; and a leather
belt is included. This suit is strongly made and good fitting
—one that lias our highest recommendation. In sizes to tit
boys from 3 to 10 years. PRICE 12/6
In Fox’s Naval Serge, 15/6.
WE PAY CARRIAGE
on all goods except Furniture, Floor Covering, Kitchenware
and Hardware to any part of the Common wealth. Only on
Toys when ordered with other goods.
DAVID JONES LTD.
Opposite G.P.0., SYDNEY.
h
Gout and Rheumatism.
These complaints arise from the poisonous waste
matters accumulated in the blood consequent on
the kidneys, through temporary disorder or
through some disease, being unable to carry out
their work. Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills rapidly
reach the root of the trouble and soon anoia
relief. Price Is. 6d. and 2s. 6d.*
LIVER TROUBLES
Are no more than simple stagnation caused by a
lazv liver due to constipation. Relief is always
to be had by taking a few doses of Chamberlain s
Tablets. Chamberlain’s Tablets are an idei
medicine for old and young. Easy to take
pleasant and gentle in action, do not gupe or
purge, but surely relieve constipation.
Society
PENFOLD'S
WINES
A curious anomaly was dug up out of the
dust in S. Aus. the other day. A sailor-man,
having been allotted £7 and costs, or two months,
for resisting the police in a Saturday night street
riot, reached over the rail at the Port Adelaide
Police Court and “passed” the constable in charge
a heavv left. He was about to he charged with
contempt of court, when someone discovered that
you cannot contemn a mere police court more than
a month’s-worth, whereas it is worth two to hit a
policeman. So assault it was, with two months
more.
A THREAT.
DISGUSTED SPORT: “ Well, if they don't bring
out some white boxer to beat those niggers
pretty soon, I'll just give up interest in the
game."
“ The Vagabond : The
sudden upheaval concerning the
methods of medical examination,
etc., on hoard over-seas boats
ought to bring to light a lot of
interesting items which are com-
monplaces to the man who has
done much deep-sea journeying.
The possibility of all the Plagues
of Egypt and other countries en
route escaping into Australia by
the Adelaide front-door is no new
thing. Two or three years ago
we passengers to Sydney were
tickled by the joke that several
of our friends landed themselves,
their goods and gear at Adelaide,
and trekked overland to Sydney,
without any bothersome medical
inspection ; while at Melbourne
and Sydney we all had our
tempers, but not our tempera-
tures, taken, and our tongues
listened to but not looked at.
We had to turn out and “fall in’’
aloirg the deck, and were kept
waiting there till the Health
Officer came along and counted
noses. He evidently found one
short in the tally, so we stood
some more on one foot and rested
the other while he went into a
long discussion with the purser.
It turned out that on the pas-
senger list was the name of a
man who had missed the boat in
London, and we stood on the
other foot and rested the first
one while this was explained at
length to the doctor, who seemed
to accept the excuse with re-
luctance and to be deeply sus-
picious of our having the man
concealed in our pockets. But
the passengers landed at Adelaide
were never even alluded to.
James Edmond sends a cry from the
Macedonia :
We are roaming l through the Red Sea in a dead, dead
calm. It is a wonderful sea in a historical sense. I got
up early this morning and looked out on the Egyptian
shore. In the distance I saw the left wheel of Pharaoh s
chariot. The tyre was burst, but otherwise it was in
good preservation. On the other shore lay the skeleton
of the whale which swallowed Jonah. With my glasses
I could distinctly see a Hebrew prayer book lying anions:
tbe bones. I believe Jonah left it behind him when be
quitted his lodgings. Further on is the humble residence
of Solomon’s 000th mother-in-law. She is very aged now
and lets lodgings. An Arabic card in the window says
that there are apartments for single Arabs. Just as I
had noted these facts, the last remnant of the rock that
was struck by Moses got in my eye, and I had to retire.
The case of Moses begins to interest me since X got into
these parts. It strikes me (1) that Moses was a very
plucky man to hit anything so much larger than himself ,
(2) that the whole course of the world’s history might
have been altered if the rock had got in first and struck
I have seen the noble Arab at Aden. He is just a brown
beggar like any other brown beggar. His native town is
the same old tangled, dirty horror. There is a series of
wonderful stone tanks (ascribed to Solomon) some four
miles from the town. They are supposed to be for the
supply of the town ; but their catchment area is almost
nil and the rainfall is almost nil, and the blessed tanks
are so much divided up by great stone walls that even if
they were full they wouldn’t supply Sydney for a day.
And there was just a spoonful of greenish water at the
bottom of them. Aden lives on condensed water and
precarious wells. It is surrounded by the driest, brown-
est, craggiest mountains on record. Some of the roads
dodge through deep cuttings and tunnels—dimly-lighted
tunnels as much as half a mile long, and so narrow that
no two* vehicles can pass. A chesty black policeman
regulates the traffic at each end.
God knows why His humble creature Man ever decided
to dwell at Aden. There is neither tree nor grass. The
harbor is really a poor sort of roadstead. The local
camel that drags the local cart is a gaunt beast soured by
misfortune, and his lower lip hangs down like an open
carpet bag in perdition. Sometimes he is brown ; some-
times he is grey ; and sometimes he seems to be covered
by a greenish fungus. Mostly he has a tail, but some-
times that useful addendum has dried up and fallen away.
Then there is the occasional small bullock and the
occasional almost invisible ass. The cab-horse, of whom
there is manv, is the oest-ventilated cab-horse in creation,
for the wind blow's right through him. He lives almost
entirely on his own caudal appendage. The other pro-
ducts of the place are cemeteries and thieves. The old
thieves are buried in the cemeteries, and the young ones
run behind the cabs crying out for backsheesh, and
hang on in such numbers that the well-ventilated horse
goes back as often as he goes forward.
It is a place of clamor and row. There is ho noise on
earth like the noise of all Asia bellowing about 2d. When
you try to buy something worth Is. in a local shop you
have the proprietor yelling at you, also his son, his grand-
son, his remote ancestor, his six assistants, and ten loafers
who have come in from the street. And the local
deformity—a person who walks on his hands and has
one leg doubled under him and one leg cocked up behind
his ear—takes up a resolute stand in the doonvay, and
vou have either to leap over him as you go out or else
pav him to go away. A marvellous creature is the local
deformity with one leg doubled under him and one leg
cocked up behind his ear. If he has a third leg he pro-
bably wears it in the middle of his back. These things
are his stock in trade.
* * * *
The sly-grog purveyor in Maoriland is
contriving to make ends meet despite the constant
drain of heavy fines. One of him was shown in a
recent prosecution to have traded 149 dozen
bottles of beer in a week at about 200 per cent,
above market price, and as it was in a metro-
politan centre the probabilities are that the bulk
of the cargo was unloaded on a Sunday. It is all
very disheartening for the Wowser; still, he
hasn’t lost hope that he will yet hear the echo of
the last cork being drawn and the crash of the
final dead-marine falling into the Past. And on
that day the pterodactyl will again inhabit the
earth.
A QUIET TIME.
“ You're very quiet. You haven't opened your
mouth once this afternoon."
“ Oh, yes, I have. I’ve yawned twice."
“Adolphus the Penman ” discovers another
interference with Private Enterprise :
Unless some meddlesome scientists don’t take a pull, it
soon won’t be safe to trifle with another gentleman’s sig-
nature even for 2£d. The finger-print nuisance was bad
enough, this latest is worse. Dr. Lindsay Johnson,
of London, is the prime meddler. His idea was that in
many diseases, particularly of the heart and kidneys, the
patient’s pulse-beats are individual, and no one can con-
trol, even momentarily, the frequency, or irregularities,
of his heart’s action, as shown by a chart recording his
pulsation. So he proceeded to obtain a chart by means
of a “ sphvmograph an instrument fitted to the
patient’s wrist and equipped with a needle, which records
the pulse-beats on prepared paper. Following up the idea
other busybodies applied the test to handwriting. Magni-
fied and projected on a screen, it exhibits the turns and
qtiiverscausedbv the writer's peculiar pulsation. As a test,
a number of hospital patients were set to write a few lines,
and in every case the individual pulsations were dis-
tinctly visible when the magnified reproductions of the
MS. were thrown on the screen. The handwriting of
healthy persons, it seems, doesn’t reveal the pulse-beats ;
so where a document purporting to he written by any
person contains the beats, and his acknowledged writing
doesn’t, or vice versa, forgery may be taken as proved.
It appears, then, that in the future it won’t be safe for a
gentleman of my profession to do business unless he is
certain that he is perfectly healthy, and that the capi-
talist he proposes to do business with is healthy likewise.
And so far as I can see there are no healthy capitalists.
IMPOSSIBLE.
“ They say she kicks over the traces .”
“ Never, in a skirt like that!"
The birdlike ladies and pallid young
gentlemen who sell fancy-goods in Melbourne are
still unorganised. Shabby gentility, selling a
toy-horse to Willie’s mamma, does so with a
proud non-union manner which is in no way
dashed by the fact that twelve-’n’-six a week is
the wage for lady toy horse-sellers. Some day,
when the millennium is just about to arrive, the
wooden-horse dealer will get up with a start and
discover that really she has been grovelling where
she meant to show a most uncommon independ-
ence ; and the gentleman who chaffers over toy-
trains will about the same time conclude that LI
a u’eek, shinv elbows, and being-a-gentleman, aie
as dust and ashes compared with £2 and being a
mere —ah—laborer, as it were.
In its eagerness to get a case finished, the
Supreme Court in S. Aus. actually sat on Easter
Saturday. But it drew the line at Good Friday.
A sitting on that day has not been attempted
anywhere since the time of the English Judge
Mansfield, 150 years ago. He sat* once on Holy
Friday, in face of a protest from the indignant
Bar that there was no precedent for it since that
of Pontius Pilate !
* * * *
The Oldest Inhabitant on the Oldest
Hospital:—
Sydney Hospital is about to start a Centenary Fund,
towards which J. C. Williamson will give one-half the
gross proceeds of the last night of “ Our Miss Gibbs” in
Sydney. Governor Macquarie laid the foundation stone
of the old “Rum Hospital” on October 23, 1811. The
contractors for the buildings were D’Arcy Wentworth,
Garnham Blaxcell and Alexander Riley. The remunera-
tion has been variously stated. Macquarie said that, in
payment, they had permission to import into the colon}'
45,000 gallons of spirits, with ,six months’grace to pay
the duty of 3s. per gallon. They also had the use of 20
draught bullocks from the Government herd. But Dr.
Lang, in his earlier histories, stated that the contractors
had the right to import 60,000 gallons. The Secretary of
State severely criticised Macquarie’s action in giving the
contractors a monopoly of importing spirits for public
consumption ; but his protest came too late. The profits
must have been enormous. Lang states that the contrac-
tors bought the spirits at 3s. per gallon, paid 3s. duty,
and sold at 40s. per gallon. Two of the buildings
erected under this contract still stand, the Parliament
House and the Mint.
*■***■
Truth will out sometimes — by accident.
The other day a big Sydney drapery firm in its
catalogue proudly proclaimed that a certain
much-boomed make of flannelette was “war-
ranted inflammable.” Then someone produced
the office dictionary, and the offending page was
cut out of the catalogue.
“Exile” writes from Noiseville about
some lost Australian antiquities :
Being in Slumland to-day, I sauntered down White-
chapel past some fine old family residences now occupied
by Doukobohrs, Finns, Slavs and “To Lets,” and up
Cambridge-road to the Bethnal Green Museum, the only
public gallery of any importance in East London, the
place where they kill policemen. The chief gallery was
filled with a loan collection of Eastern art objects lent
by Lord Curzon of Kedleston, and bought by his wife,
the daughter of Solomon Leiter, a Chicago wheat-buyer,
who amassed a huge fortune by keeping an “honorable
understanding ” with other wheat kings to squeeze the
Minnesota and Michigan farmers as hard as possible, just
as the wheat-buyers used to do in Adelaide. Here also is
stuffed away a weird collection of tools used by the Duke
of Edinburgh for laying foundation stones in Australia.
There were 38 trowels of gold, silver and bronze, pre-
sented to Alfred by Mayors and chairmen whose names
were invariably emblazoned on the implements. A few
may be remembered by some of the people who helped to
pay for them : East Oollingwood Mechanics’ In-
stitute (Vic.) ; Sydney Town Hall; Alfred Graving Dock ;
Williamstown (Vic.); Central Arch, G.P.0., Sydney;
Prince Alfred College, Adelaide; Sailors’ Home, Port
Adelaide ; Victoria Tower, G.P.0., Adelaide ; Town Hall,
Melbourne ; and Temperance Hall, Ballarat. I had no
time to copy the whole list, as I was anxious to work my
way back to civilisation —meaning, of course, the Bank
of England. There were emu eggs, silver kangaroos,
gold emus, silver boxes, gold “Galateas” and enough
boomerangs with snobs’ names engraven on silver shields
to fill a safe deposit. The antiquities represented oceans
of liquor and mountains of gush and snobbery, and here
they will rest till some future Goths sack London and
remove the trowels and emus and kangaroos to a smell-
ing pot. The “treasures” are “guarded” by two old
and obese gentlemen who had been on the premises for
half a century or so, and were mildly astonished when 1
asked if the'Duke of Edinburgh had ever been thpre.
There 1 Why should he go there ! In fact, it seemed to
surprise them that anybody should go there.
“You people have had the railings round
your Hyde Park removed,” said W. W. Naugh-
ton. the American writer, the other day, on re-
visiting Sydney after an absence of 18 years.
“That’s a mighty hue
. idea. And what a
picture the place has
become ! ” The re-
moval of those railings
is a bigger thing than
it looks, for it sym-
bolises.a mighty fact:
the passing of the con-
vict system, with its
walls and bolts and
bars; the gradual pass-
ing, too, of the odious
class-rule system which
in its every action
declared that the com-
mon people were not
to be trusted. Pre-
sently, as brotherhood
and self-respect and
discipline ad vance with
the march of universal
education, we shall
have the owners of pri-
vate gardens pulling
down their walls and
fences, as do the
wealthy and cultured
classes in and around
American cities, so as
to allow those less
favored by fortune
to share in the delight
of nature aided by art.
When a cow-
farmer named Usher
was charged at Cam-
perdown (Vic.) the
other day with not
sending' his 11- and 13-year-old infants to
school-thev hadn’t had one day in hebruary-
the wife of the defendant put in the .plea that
“160 cows had to be milked.” And Victorias
quaint P.M. Murphy was evidently so impressed
with the troubles of the Usher family in having
so many cows to milk that he fined the man os. It
a Cow King can sweat enough children to accu-
mulate a herd of 400 milking cows, no doubt Mr.
Murphy, P.M., under similar circumstances, will
give the poor wretch ss. poor-box.
From London
The prices for seats to view the Procession are prepos-
terous You would think the money was for gel ting into
Westminster Abbey. Every house on the line is being
trestled up in front with tiers of seats. In the best situa-
tions the price is 15 guineas each person for a front row,
10 o-uineas second row, 5 guineas third row, and A
guineas for standing behind ! At this rate soine house-
holders expect to mop up 2000 guineas apiece. Of course,
landlords are asking if they are not in it, and there are
all sorts of threats of action. There is even the unprece-
dented thing of tenants wanting to improve houses and
landlords trying to stop them unless they are et irtto Ur.
swindle. I’ve heard of an Australian bank " th a offiee
near the Mansion House which has six small
As much as six months ago the wily speculator came along
with an offer of £5O apiece for five of them.
THE PRIVATE ENTERPRISE DEVIL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Speaking at a temperance demonstration, Rev. Henry
Worrail declared that the Federal Government proposed
to nationalise the drink traffic. It might, he said, as well
attempt to nationalise his Satanic Majesty. He would
be no party to a scheme that would create such a rotten
national foundation, and would certainly vote “No” at
the Referendum.— Melbourne Aon.
I wandered down into Hell last night;
The place was filled with a glow of light;
Old Harry was there and working hard ;
With furnace-burns was his old tail scarred ;
And the molten metal around me hissed ;
But there was something in Hell I missed.
No devils around me shoved and jammed ;
I heard no howls from the freshly-damned ;
About their business tame friends went,
Or tended machines on jobs intent.
The noises there in the busy gloom
Were those of a well-kept engine-room.
I listened long to the click and whir,
The clank and rattle, and then said : “Sir,
Could you tell me, please, if this is Hell ?”
Old Harry laughed as he answered : “ Well,
I say it is when I'm feeling bad ;
But why do you want to know, my lad ?”
I told him Worrail had voted “ No.”
“ Why ?” asked Old Harry. I told him. “Oh!”
A humorous gleam stole in his eye,
As he softly laughed. “ i’ll tell you why !
We put small jobs in each other’s way ;
We work together, as you might say.
“ Down here—this place is a private mint—
The Wages of Sin we stamp and print.
You bet if the Labor party tries
To meddle with Private Enterprise,
And say of Hell: “ This shall have an end,”
I’ll get a hand from my Reverend friend.
“No,” said the Devil, “it would not do !
If 1 went out of it he'd go too !
You bet he’ll keep these paying flames
From their grasping Socialistic games.
‘ Hell for the Devil,’ our motto is,
For competition’s the soul of biz.”
N.S.W.
THE RELIGIOUS EDITOR.


/C
ftabletsof Sun-
light Soap are
sold every week
this is the high-
est possible proof
that Sunlight
k Soap comes up
.to expecta-
tions.
No. 57. GUARANTEED UNDER THE
PURE FOOD ACT. 1908,”
BY LEVER BROTHERS LIMITED,
SYDNEY, N.S.W. No, 57.
THE TROUBLES of DIGESTION,
acidity, and so on, are happily in mosl
expression of some fleeting disturbance
best way to restore tone and regularit
tract is by taking a wineglassful of ‘
natural aperient water the first thino
every second or third day.*
pain, flatulence,
j cases simply the
of function. The
y to the intestinal
‘ Hunyadi Janos ”
; in the morning
If yon want something’ really good in the way
of razors or razor strops, buy the Diamond Edge brand,
the best that money can buy. Razors 7s. 6d. and 10s. 6d.
each. Strops 6s. Sold only by the Sole Agent, T. Wild,
Vice-Regal Hairdresser, 30 Sydney Arcade; entrance
from George or King Streets, Sydney.*
Just the Boot for Winter
166
Photographed Direct
from the Original.
We recommend this boot as being one that will give
every satisfaction for Winter Wear. The uppers are
pure Black Box Calf—notice the grain of the leather
in the illustration—it is photographed direct from the
boot. The soles are welted and rope- stitched, good
stout soles —just what are needed for winter !
16(6
Posted 1/- extra
Inter-State, 1/3 extra
PEAPES & CO. Ltd.
“ Men’s Outfitters,”
309-311 George St., SYDNEY.
™ ' * *■
The other Commonwealth—that of Crom-
well s time—would not have taken so meekly
impulsive “ Damn it! Let me tell
you ! ’ when he was interrupted before he could
reply to a question in Melbourne. The
chief of all Wowsing Parliaments in 1050 fixed a
careful scale of fines for “ language.” The mini-
mum, for a Bloke, was 3s. 4d.; the maximum, for
a Duke, 30s. For ladies there was the same tariff,
according to the rank of husband or father.
Children same price, and, if under 12, a whipping
instead of the stocks on default of payment.
Double fine for everybody after the first offence.
It would have cost Nesbit, assuming that this was
his first offence, either 6s. Bd. or 10s.—it depends
on whether a K.C. is an Esquire or a Gentleman.
’ TWIXT HOME AND DUTY.
BATSMAN (to younger brother): “ Hi , Billo,
you catch that blooming ball and home
you go.”
There is
some heartysnort-
ing Victoria over
the prizes given
for winners of the
Earl of Meath rifle
competitions. The
prizes have just
come to hand.
Cadet Price, of
South Melbourne,
is to get a small
silver medal worth
about 2s. as the
“aggregate”
prize and the
Empire’s cham-
pionship. The
seven other cadets
in the South Mel-
bou rn e team,
which won the
principal “Em-
pire” trophy, are
each to have a nice
little medal—
worth at least
elevenpence. Two
cadets who dis-
tinguished them-
selves in the com-
petition are to
have cabinet
photographs of
“Bobs.” Even
Defence authori-
ties, whogenerally
attach the great-
est importance to
mere honor and
glory, curl their
lips scornfully ;
and George Reid
is to be asked to
look into the mat-
ter with his most
powerful monocle. And the glassy look is
all the more loudly called for because the
entrance fee for the competition was Bs. per team.
* * * *
One VV. D. B. Creagh the other day backed
his cart into a Sydney paper and unloaded him-
self as follows:
I have been a fair traveller iri this world, but I have
never seen so much drunkenness in a big city as I did in
Sydney in the last few days.
On Good Friday groups of men drunk and semi-drunk
were to be seen around nearly every corner, especially
near hotels, drinking out of bottles that had been sup-
plied to them from the back door. No moral or self-
respecting people should allow this to continue. I
counted no less than 15 men at one hotel, nearly every
one intoxicated. Their language was terrible, and little
children were waiting, and even fighting at the very feet
of the men, to gain possession of the empty bottles.
And, as in the case of the Three Holy Children
who saw the mob of small boys reeling drunk from
“ one of the brightest lighted hotels in Sydney,”
no name, street, locality or even compass point is
mentioned, no policeman was told about the
Terrible Language of the intoxicated, and no corn-
inunication was sent to the Inspector-General of
Police that would enable him to make a move
against even one publican. All is vague and in-
definite, like the oyster pie at a Dago’s food
factory.
“ Gil Gunnia” : The Waldschules (Forest
schools) of Germany might be imitated by Aus-
tralian Education Departments with benefit
to the youth of the country. These institu-
tions are in the woods, on the outskirts
of the big cities. Electric cars take the
children to and fro daily. All the work
and play is done in the open, though
roofed-in shelters are provided for
wet weather. The Government looks
after the tuckering of the kiddies,
and also pays for their schooling
and fares if their parents can’t pay.
What about a few forest schools
round our cities where the kids
from (say) the Sydney Rocks and
similarly congested areas could go
and be schooled in the summer
amidst the vales of Middle Harbor
or Hornsby, instead of being cooped
up in black holes, and having to
stretch their limbs in play-grounds
no bigger than a. moderate-sized
suburban back yard ?
-There seems to be no doubt that
Dutch New Guinea shelters some people
who are still living right back in the
Stone Age. The Dutch expedition which
lately got into the Snow Mountains came
iri touch with them ; and now letters come
from A. S. Meek, the Australian naturalist
and collector, who certainly has never had a
chance to hear or read of the other people’s dis-
coveries, very briefly describing the same primitive
barbarians. A Sydney ethnologist was particularly
anxious to ascertain if stone “ nose-bars ” were in
use. Mostly these nose “ornaments’’are made of
shell; but Meek luckily found one that was broken,
and thus discovered that it was of stone. The
accounts of the two expeditions differ very widely
in one respect. Naturalist Younghusband six
weeks ago wrote in London Timks about these
stone-age men, and said that they were ravenous for
iron and steel tools. Meek, from whom only pri-
vate letters have so far been received, says that
they didn’t want his iron and steel tools. For 20
years he has been roaming among the Islands,
particularly among the natives of New Guinea’
and he had always before found them eager to
trade ; but these stone-age people had apparently
never traded in their lives, and he made hardly
any progress with them.
“H.E.R.”: Westralian immigration is a
great scheme—for the immigrant! The Govern-
ment assists him to come out and go on the land
—and he never intends to go near the land. I
was speaking to one the other day, who looked as
if he’d just been transplanted from the
Thames Embankment. He offered to sell
me his German liner ticket to Sydney for
a trifle of 50 s. A few questions brought
these facts to light. He was nominated, and
planked down £5 for his passage. On landing
in Westralia, the Government refunded him £3,
but did not demand his ticket, which entitles him
to stay in Westralia for a year. Then, if he likes
(there is nothing to stop him), he may decamp
eastwards. No doubt Westralia is a most hospit-
able State, and its immigration-visitors are on a
good wicket.
AUSTRALLANS ABROAD.
MRS. BROWN-SMITH: “The brazen hussy-
how tranquilly she wears 'em, too!"
The other night, near Auckland, Maori-
land missed a big railway smash by about three
chains. Otahuhu is a small station on the main
trunk line, where a local passenger train is side-
tracked to allow the through express to Welling-
ton to pass ; but on this particular night it wasn’t
tied to the water trough, or the anchor wasn’t
down, or something, and the carriages sneaked
out of the yard while the crew was temporarily
absent, and started careering down the hill just
when the big main-trunker was expected to tear
out of the darkness on the same set of rails.
The odds on a collision were 50 to 1, when R.
Claude, employed at the local saleyards, looked
out upon the night and observed the two trains
preparing to fly at each other’s throat. Like the
central figure in a hellowdrama, he leaped the
railway fence, swung on the last car of the
escapee, applied the Westinghouse (of which be
had gained a knowledge), stopped the “local,”
raced to the front with a red light warning the
unconscious passengers as he went, and held up
the express just where he could reach out and
shake hands with it. Now a fund has been
started to show Claude that he can’t do things
like that with impunity, and the name of Gover-
nor Islington is expected to be handy on the list.
He was on the express.
“Boswell ’: “ Johanna,” in the Melbourne
Woman’s Letter (B. 20/4/11), remarks: “The
circle was packed with those who love to be near
a Governor.” It reminds one of other things.
As Dick Sleath and P. Bowling, Labor leaders,
could tell you, in the great gloomy gaol at Goul-
burn (N.S.W.) the various wings converge on a
space called “The Circle.” Delinquents
who scratch the paint on the cast-iron “regula-
lations ” are there mustered each morning, pre-
paratory to being hustled before the Governor to
receive their medicine. I don’t fancy that
“circle” has ever Den “ packed with those who
love to be near a Governor.’’ Evidently there
are “circles” and “circles” and Governors and
Governors.
“ Table Salt ” sends a hail from the boat
deck :
I have gazed down from high-level bridges and cathe-
dral roofs and felt no misgivings because I knew the
perches were firmly rooted in the 75-mile-thick crust of
the earth. Last week I inspected the remote hats of a
large crowd on a wharf from the boat deck of a modern
liner; and when I recollected that the steel mountain
only had a thirty-foot grip on the ever-moving sea, and
that the winds had a sort of G.P.O. to shove against, I
hastily clambered dow'n several iron ladders and won-
dered how voyages are completed. Some person was in-
cautious enough to advance the opinion that the cyclone
had got under the \ ongala’s long decks and tilted the
lost ship till it went over like an aeroplane. The
theory was promptly hooted—by the people who own
or are interested in the running of skyscraping ships.
These are the days of fresh air, pyramids of deck cabins
—and mysterious losses. Every second, boat is piled
almost to the funnel-tops with layers of airy sleeping
apartments, to which leg-weary passengers are hoisted in
lifts after they have absorbed much food and drink in
the dining-hall two or three storeys down. The naval archi-
tects who design the sea skyscrapers presumably know'
what they are doing ; and they are steadily going up—and
their ships are going down. When the ‘25-deck ship
with the same old 30ft. draught peers over the horizon, I
shall write some more on this subject. Meanwhile, I am
craning my neck and admiring the facades of our present
sea-pubs.
“Smith”: A Minister for Grace and
Elegance may he all right; but I want to instal a
Minister for Truth and Fairplay. We ought to
have had him as from January 1, 1911 There
never was, surely, in the history of any country,
a period of two months during which so many
lies, misrepresentations and half-truths were pub-
lished as we have just passed through. In addi-
tl0 j i to i he regular Press, millions of pamphlets
and leaflets were printed, in which even worse
lies and misrepresentations were placed before
the electors The heated and diseased imagina-
tion of the Tones soared to hitherto undreamed-of
heights. It seemed to run absolutely wild; it;
appeared to consider any old lie to be fit and
proper matter with which to deceive the voter.
Under the Russian system, the editor of a paper,,
or the publisher of any political pamphlet, has ter
rush around to the Minister for Truth with
a proof of his rag’s political matter. If
it isn t approved of, it cannot appear.,
sometimes the Minister for Truth runs;
his blue pencil through a few lines, andl
sometimes the whole article is thrown out,
Of about 30 pamphlets and leaflets that I have
come across lately, at least 25 would not have
been printed at all under that system. And iff
Iruth mattered, they wouldn’t have been printed .
Wherefore, as Truth ought to matter, I want it.
given a Minister whose one job shall be to guardl
it. I believe it is almost as well worth protect-
ing and encouraging as scenery or schnapper.
* * * *
There is no such thing as caste or class;
distinction in Australia,” remarked the Sydney
lEI,EGUAFH recently. Nevertheless, the other
day thelpetitioner in a divorce case deposed thatr.
her parents had objected to her marriage because
■the happy man was a greengrocer, which was ai.
descent in the social scale, her own people being
in the dry-grocery line. The intricacies of “caste” -
even in Australia are amazing. There are aboutr.
a score of distinct classes of clerks, and each off
them looks upon those in the class above as snobs,
and those in the class below as inferiors. Andl
there p,re at least a dozen ,classes among factory
workers. The scorn of the person who works in
a boot factory for the social pretensions of the
worker in a pickle factory is a marvellous thing.
“Stony”: Sign of the times ? An advt.
appeared the other morning offering a billet to a
‘‘working housekeeper, with child preferred.”'
Ihe age of the child is not mentioned; but it.
seems a move in the right direction, anyway..
Even though he is put to peeling potatoes andl
washing dishes, little Willie is of more value tee
the community that way than tie would be as ai
lump of cold clay beneath the sod. And that i»
whither the “no encumbrance ” ad vt. gentltr
leads him. *
HONEY TURNED TO GALL.
AUSTUS: “ I've just dropped in for some
money, dear boy.”
SYDNEY : “Delighted, I'm sure! Who was the
deucedly civil person that died? ”
A UGUSTUS: "No, no, no! I mean I've just
dropped in to ask you for something on the.
fiver I lent you.”
It shows how important are meals with
Australia’s High Cockalorum in London when,
the “ great ” dailies of Sydney put it in this way t
London, Wednesday evening.—George Reid, High.
Commissioner for Australia, entertained the delegates 10.
the Imperial Education Conference at Luncheon to-day.
Also Breakfast, Snacks, High Tea, Dinner.
Supper, Devilled Bones and Sundry Drinks —
give them all the biggest capital letters.
THE SUN’S STEADY JOBS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
An interesting address on solar energy was given on
Saturday by Sir Joseph Thomson, Professor of Physics at
the Royal Institution, London. In the course of his re-
marks, he said ; “ The sun on a clear day transmits power
equivalent to 7000-h.p. per acre. If it were harnessed the
power required for the world’s work could be obtained at
the cost of lowering the temperature by a degree or two.
—j ßecent cable.
The good old sun we worship so pours down his wealth of
light,
Like some old spendthrift on this earth, from morning
until night.
Without a thought of vears to come, he throws his bars
of gold
And recks not of the time when he will be used up and
old.
The limelight man who runs the moon and works the
shadowed tides,
Irom all commercial bondage free, through skies of safety
rides;
Wave-motors, bobbing here and there, run little lighting
plan ts,
But at most jobs of any size some servile engine pants.
The river and the cataract, hemmed in by earthen banks,
Have long been harnessed up and work for something
less than thanks ;
And men who used to toil like slaves now sit and take
their ease.
Or tend the humming dynamoes in spotless dungarees.
But sweat still drips from many brows to wrin" from
Earth its yield,
While power wastes upon the coasts and spills upon the
field ;
The man who guides the jolting plough behind the plod-
ding horse
Emits a curse, and hungers for the great unharnessed
force.
Friends, if we could let work go hang and sit by summer
seas,
What would it matter if we lost a couple of degrees?
Our blazing friend who beams and burns has heat enough
to spare—
There is no need to work or freeze while he is smiling
there. "
When all the jobs are his at last, and winter brings its
clouds
w?if' Ve f u e 5, . ,n a holiday, employers stout in crow'ds
Will gather in their boardrooms dark, and reverentlv
speak
Of happy days when men worked hard for Two-Pounds-
odd per week.
N.S.W.
AN TOO SOON.


The direct source ol prosperity
lor all classes, and especially for
Labor, is increased productivity.
The greatest national service that
Labor leaders could render the
Commonwealth would be that of
' getting the whole of their party
enthusiastic over the cause of
increased production.
bookmakers on strike.
DISPUTE JUDOE’S DECISION.
Ballarat. Monday.—A strike ot
bookmakers occurred at the Scars*
dale and Smythesdale races, which
were held at Scarsdale to-day.
before
A stir was created at the Oolden
Square Methodist Church to-day when
the preacher, Rev. Mr- Cole, stopped ab-
ruptly in the sermon, and. pointing to a
prominent member, remarked : “ I’m
tired ot preaching to persons who sleep.
There’s another one, a lady, with her
eyes closed."
tye
here
■,s r °\/»"f
A zjSrv,on\'Kory'
Stye rigVf?
Work: ty&jrcP, te Keek 2^Vn
0le» vou; -fbwcs so ">«cb
Jil Wr*r*»<*V , llh
f% .
(ofotr&t Tofj
Moneys £V°“ d d
'* 0 P -tfte County f
J B .
W-K
o« '™* + "
y S**n» »v>
•$« yf»* ;*
<i*iJo«-SS, s *>“
! •
rfcn oo *°
Queenscliff, Monday .—Curtis Scott,
who caused a commotion in the camps on
Swan Island when he ' struck a naval
cadet with a billet of wood, appeared be-
fore Messrs. Murphy, P.M., and W.
Simpkin, J.P. Mr. Murphy suggested that
tile defence authorities should requisition
the services of a couple of policemen to
protect the men In camp, as they were
evidently unable to protect themselves.
|_vE.d By Ttte
THE WEEK IN MELBOURNE.


LEWIS & WHITTY’S OLIVE OIL.
Guaranteed in conformity with the PURE
POOP REGULATIONS of the Australian States.
LEWIS A WHITTY,
Melbourne and Sydney. tl
McKENZIE’S EXCELSIOR BAKING POWDER.
Diamonds Reduced
Enormously !
For six months we will offer Diamonds in Rings and
Pendants and Jewellery generally at prices never before
attempted in Australia.
WHY?
Well, we have undertaken a Sole Agency that calls
for an enormous output, and we have to live up to it, and
so we are offering all Diamond goods at merely a com-
mission on the actual cost.
It will pay us, because of the advertisement and the
increase of customers.
Fairfax Roberts,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street.
Plain Figures Cash.]
Selected Diamonds and
Whole Pearls, £B/8/-
ABORIGIN
ALITIES
“Montalex” : About Australian tree-heights.
The 302-footer mentioned by “Condot” (B.
20/4/’ 11) isn’t “in it” with some of the Titans of
the Dandenong Ranges, in Vic. There is—-or was—-
in that locality a colossus which, by a rough calcu-
lation, I made out to be 460 ft. high. I was laughed
at. “Why,” said one of the cachinnators, “that
would make it nearly 100 ft. higher than the tallest
of the Californian Wellingtonias, and everybody
knows they are the loftiest trees in the world.”
Then, in 1891, came along Professor Semon, who,
using accurate scientific methods, gave the tree’s
altitude as 480 ft—-easily a world’s record. I quote
him (“The Australian Bush,” p, .30.): “A specimen
of Eucalyptus amygdalina, in Dandenong Mountains,
near Melbourne, measured 480 ft. in height, thus over-
topping even the celebrated mammoth trees, Welling-
tonia gigantea (370 ft.), of Yoseinite Valley, the Stras-
bourg Cathedral, Saint Peter’s, and the Cheops Pyra-
mids, and equalling in height the Cologne Cathe-
dral.”
A SECRET PAGE OF
HISTORY.
The King pledges the regalia.
“Jimmie Pannikin” : Folks in the wonder-
fully wild sandhills Baek-o’-Kensington tell a tale
about the self-reliance of the Urban Outbacker, A.
William-Goat (or is it A. William-Cann ?). It ap-
pears that A. W., etc., was but walking in the Ken-
sington Desert, when he spied a huge snake. There
was no stick handy, but A. W. etc.’s resourceful-
ness rose to the occasion. He pulled out his strongly-
scented handkerchief, and threw it in front of the
snake; then he dropped one of his photographs on
the handkerchief and went off to look for a weapon.
Returning with a few rods of fencing, he threw
them at the snake in sections. The reptile did not
budge, though some of the post and rails fell quite
close to it. Investigation proved that the fascina-
tion of the photograph had.been fatal to the snake,
which had died s without a struggle. The acumen and
the enterprise of the Urban Outbacker are absolutely
astounding.
* * * *
“Jimmie Pannikin”: Why do sheepmen
differ so much in various parts of the Ma State?
During my three years of Outback exile, no sheep-
man (nor any man) ever raised his hat to me or
to his employer in my presence; but during my five
years’ soujourn Closer-In, the mere sight of my
driving gloves was sufficient to cause many men to
doff their hats. I maintain that Outback expands
men s souls, but Closer-In contracts them.
“Jack Jay”: There are exceptions to
the rule of Maori hospitality. For instance: A
miner, with his wife, child and pa-in-law was a
while ago on the way to Whangamata; wife and
child riding, men walking, and pack-horse ahead
with the outfit. Near an isolated Maori settlement
the pack-horse disappeared, and could not be found,
mainly owing to the fact that the Maoris had planted
him in the scrub. In due course the natives “found”
the animal and demanded £1 as a reward; and as
the amount was not in the party’s purse, the two
men were held in pawn while the woman was sent
on with the horses to try to raise the wind. Luckily
I had got bushed the night before by a wrong turn-
ing, and appeared at the Maori village for break-
fast. As soon as 1 heard the story of the two host-
ages, I said a speech to Cannibal Brother that made
him feel the cold wind from the open gaol blowing
down bis spine, and before he could warm his feet
again I had handed him a useless I 0 U for eighteen-
pence, and removed the pledges.
* * * •
“Montalex” : There is much that I agree
with in Randolph Bedford’s recent shriek for re-
bellion against imported British traditions and cus-
toms; but, in the cause of accuracy, let us pull up
some of his wild assertions. He says of the English
oak in Australia: “Every successive winter finds it
postponing the falling of the leaf ; assimilating itself
to the Australian habit; becoming gradually ever-
green.” Now, when I arrived in Melbourne I ob-
served that the Fitzroy Garden oaks retained their
leaves about a month longer, and renewed them
about a month sooner, than would have been the
case in Britain. That was 43 years ago ; so that if,
as the Reckless asserts, the trees have been ever since
gradually shortening the leafless interval, they should
long ere now have become perfect evergreens. And
even more so should this be the case with the much
older oaks in Parramatta Park (N.S.W.). But no;
after more than a century of Australian existence,
these trees show no more alteration in leaf-period
than is to be expected from the milder local winter
conditions. Also, if “southern environment is
strong enough to alter types always for the better,”
how is it that the timber of the Australian-grown
oak is practically worthless? Such trifles stick not
in a Bedford’s memory. Again, Randolph spreads
himself over the vigor of the eucalypts he saw in
Corsica. Well, passing over my own observations,
let me quote from Professor Semon’s “Australian
Bush” (p. 30) : “The blue-gams reach an immense
height, and the dwarfish specimens of these trees
which we find in Italy, do not give any impression of
the stately and proud character of their Australian
parents.” Once more from Bedford: “This is a
country that teaches its struggling life new ways to
live. The rifle-fish earns his living by the accuracy
of his aim in shooting,” etc. Why, the rifle-fish is
of an essentially Old-World type, and is of great an-
cestral antiquity. Go to, Bedford! Thou hast a
lovely theory, and so many facts support it that it
is a pity thy bounding rhetoric should bring thee
into disastrous collision with other facts which
don’t 1
“Curse o’ Moses”: Scientific men are
great grubbers after facts; but when they come to
build a theory on the information they have gath-
ered, their logic is not always to be trusted. Pro-
fessor Keith, rooting up the floor of Essex, recently
discovered a 4000-year-old skeleton. It was that of
an ancient Briton, or other Freetrader, of short
stature, well-developed head of modern shape, and
sharp, small features. In describing the corpse the
man of lecture-rooms is on safe ground; but mark
what follows. The Professor argues that the right
scapula, by its abnormal development, shows that
the right hand was very often lifted up and down,
and, therefore, the deceased was most likely a cob-
bler I Hoot awa’, Professor! Hae ye never heard
mon, o’ the effect on the bones an’ muscles o’ liftin’
a wee drappie ower aften tae the lips? Ask the
opinion of any Aboliar on such a cadaver found in
Australian tertiary deposits, and he will give it in
one convincing word—“Shicker.”
WHEN THE BOOM BROKE.
WARDER : “ Visitor waitin' for you in the reception room , Ninety-nine."
NINETY-MINE (ex-company promoter, suspiciously): “ Visitor? Tell him I'm not at home."
“A William-Cann” continues his ro-
mances :
Bulletin readers, both Outback and Right-in, are
continually pestering me with inquiries as to where
and when I first met “Jimmie Pannikin.” In no
spirit of vulgar egoism, but for the sake of peace, I
will tell them. “Pannikin” and I were at Oxford
together—that is to say, when I was a blithe, young
undergraduate at “the House” James was employed
at Vincent’s Club.
Well do I recall my first evening at the wine club
which flourished then —-as no doubt it does still —in
B.N.C. “Pannikin’s” was the arm which guided my
reeling form from the assembly of garishly clad
youths to the cool air of the quad, outside; “Pan-
nikin’s” the brain which gathered from my involved
hiccupings that my lodgings were in King Edward-
street; and “Pannikin’s” the hands which undressed
me. He then left, having another case to attend to.
Towards the end of my second year I took defi-
nitely to drink. “Pannikin” about the same time
became a hopeless slave to alliteration. A self-
respecting University was demonstrably no place for
either of us. We were asked to leave.
I had frequently noticed a Sydney daily paper in
the college Common Room ; the sheet was posted to
an Australian in residence. A study of it convinced
me that the Commonwealth was par excellence the
place for us. In this far land, I learned, the majority
of the inhabitants were Anarchists, Atheists, Robbers
and Bursters of Homes, while a powerful political
party advocated rapine, piracy, and the confiscation
of people’s property. In such an environment, I
reasoned, the mere dipso, would appear innocuous,
and the victim qf alliteration and braggadocio would
be a pleasing social circumstance.. I put my view to
the distracted “Pannikin.” He begged, tearfully, to
be taken as myr aide-de-camp. “I want none of this
Man Friday business,” I replied, raising him from the
ground. “Besides, from what I can learn, free-born
Britons who go to Australia under;agreement to work
are immediately gaoled. I shall pay your passage,
and you must then carve out a career for yourself
among these lawless and demented revolutionaries.”
In the evening of my life I hope once more, as
“Pannikin” would put it, to traverse the Turl, cross
the Commarket, perambulate Pembroke, vegetate in
Vincent’s and meander musingly through Magdalen.
While doing so, rest assured that my thoughts will
often fly to “Pannikin”—one of the most knowledg-
able bushmen that ever learnt his craft in a British
pantry.
“Blackboy”: Some of the prettiest and
best brumbies in Australia are to be found on the
Great Southern line between Albany and Perth
(W.A.). They are small, certainly, the average
height being not more than 11 hands; but when
once yarded and tamed they make good workers,
and are worth anything up to £2O a-piece. The
best time to hunt them is after winter rains, when
the grass is young. They are then weak and not too
hard to catch; but when they are in nick, nothing
but the best horses can stay with them. I take it
that these ponies (which are mostly bay, with a
sprinkling of grey and iron-grey) are the property
of the State, but numbers are trapped by private
individuals, who make a good thing out of the
business.
“Leo Lear’’: Why the obloquy attached to
the cuckoo? The bird is not of necessity one that
does not build its own nest, or that places its egg
in the residence of another bird. For instance, the
pheasant coucal of Queensland is labelled “cuckoo,”
yet it builds its own nest in the grass, and the mother
tends her young like any other respectable woman.
For ; at least one of the class I have actual admira-
tion. That is the channel-bill cuckoo, which passes
its maternal duties, on to the crow; and anything
that takes in a crow deserves honorable mention.
These channel-bills—large, grey birds—get their
name from a peculiar groove in the side of a long
bill. They are the most discordant and loudest-
voiced of birds, and fly over the country, pursued
by an army of crows, like lost souls escaping from
the seventh inferno, with a squad of under-devils at
their heels.
“ WHO STEALS MY PURSE."
THE LAW : “ Did you lose any think, madam? ”
THE LYDY : “Me? I haven I anything to-lose
except my character.”
“Mirboo” : Can vouch for the moke’s ob-
jection to eggs. Was working in a general store
lately, where by mistake half a dozen fowl-fruit
were overlooked in a chaff-packed case, and the lot
were tipped into the feed-bin. Six delivery horses
turned up for tea that night, but they passed the
menu. Next morning the feed was still intact.
NIGHT THOUGHTS AT RYDE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The first beer ever harvested in Australia was
grown at Ryde.
The tramway twinkles down the night,
The gum-trees sweep and sway,
And up the darkness to the right
The old road winds its way ;
Some common fruits are grown out here
Where once were fields of waving beer!
Faint pubs on hidden corners stand,
Large storage tanks arise,
Wide wisps of wind the clouds have fanned
Across the lustrous skies;
Australia’s sacred place is near,
Where grew the first brown blooms of beer.
Long, long ago the mug was filled,
What time the world was strong
The air along these wastes was thrilled
With patriotic song—-
Oh, glad was all the land to hear
The gurgling voice of malted beer!
The pubs are closed, the midnight hour
Falls on the sleeping land ;
Ah, days when pewters foamed in flower
In ‘each forgotten hand—
Shall memory leave without a tear
The earliest home of Austral beer ?
N.S.W.
MARY McCOMMONWEALTH.


I
Carters
Kittle
IVER
PILLS.
The Wretchedness
of Constipation
Can quickly be overcome by
CAETEE’S LITTLE LIVEE PILLS.
Purely vegetable act surely and
gently on the liver. Cure Biliousness,
Headache, Dizziness, and Indigestion,
They do their duty.
Small Pill, Small Dose, Small Price.
GENUINE must bear Signature
ĥ
CALDWELL’S
‘ABSOLUTELY
PERMANENT.”
INKS.
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SON,
BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY.
PLASMON
THE GREAT NERVE
AND BRAIN FOOD.
PLASMON COCOA. PLASMON CHOCOLATE,
PLASMON BISCUITS. PLASMON OATS.
Send for C. B. Fry’s Book on Training,
Post Free on application to
Australian Depot: 5& 7 Barrack St.. Sydney.
The Royal Hotel,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Most centrally situated Hotel in Sydney.
Best place to lunch and dine in town.
J. W. COCKBAINE, Proprietor.
“J.C.C.”: Concerning Black Sister in the
Solomons:—-
The Malaitan girl starts work in the tribal garden
when she is about 10 years old, and stays there until
a young man buys her from her father, and, by
right of purchase, becomes her husband. There is
no marriage rite or ceremony. Values vary con-
siderably, but, as a general rule, £6 in native
money or goods will buy a likely-looking damsel.
After marriage she goes to live in the women’s
house and work in her husband’s garden; also she
prepares his food, but does not eat with him. The
women eat by themselves. Polygamy is common.
If a man is rich, or a chief, he will buy as many
wives as he can afford. The more wives he has the
more ground he can cultivate. He builds a house
for his women, each of whom has a separate room ;
but he does not sleep in the house. That is “tam-
bo,” i.e., prohibited. The Malaitans are extremely
moral; the young girls are carefully watched, and
misconduct means death or mutilation. Divorce is
looked on by the woman as a disgrace, and if it
happens she generally wanders into the bush and
hangs herself. Then, if the suicide’s relations are
stronger than the husband’s, there’s a fight. As a
rule, though, the trouble is settled by payment of
pigs or food and money by the husband. Families
are only fairly numerous, infanticide being practised
more or less all over the island. Maternal love is
certainly shown in many cases, and very deeply too;
but on the other hand, maternity is avoided as far
as possible. Women about to give birth to children
make themselves a lean-to of leaves in the bush,
and remain there until after the event. It is death
to look upon a mother and child until three days
after the birth. One peculiar thing about the
cannibal tribes is that, though they very rarely eat
the flesh of a woman, they invariably eat the bodies
of young girls. They are cheerful devils.
REASSURING.
“ Ish all ri’, constable (hie), ish all ri', I'm
with him.”
“Billy B.” : There are a few things which
even the Maorilander can teach the Australian, and
one of them is the art of cadging beer artistically.
I told this to the Reverend the other night, and was
promptly referred to Prov. 12, 22; but when I of-
fered to secure five and a-half drinks for Is. he
began to take a more Christian view. Also, he pro-
duced the shilling, which was uncommonly civil of
him. The rest was easy. We turned into the front
bar of the Blue Garter, ordered two pints and pro-
ceeded to masticate them. When three-quarters of
mine had gone the way of all beer, I took out my
little matchbox, selected one of the large, defunct
flies which I carry round for the purpose, and sur-
reptitiously dropped it into the mug. Then I called
up the bar lady, and shudderingly drew her atten-
tion to the corpse. “Oh, I’m so sorry,” she ex-
plained, and splashed the remains into the heel-tap
barrel, where the pick-me-ups come from; “the
dirty brutes get up the pipes, I think. There! I
don’t think you’ll find any in that one.” She was
quite right; but peculiarly enough we found one in
the Rev.'s mug at the Swan with the Scorched Tail.
Over a fire of twigs prehistoric man grilled
his steak. A most wasteful and uncomfortable
method. Yet Phillips Ormonde (266 Flinders-
st., Melb.) wonders why with open fire we still
cook the cook as well as the food. Should not
all cooking be accomplished by hot air? Will
not the griller of the future contain provision
for its circulation? After use in the hot-air
cooking range, could it not be re-employed for
heating the house instead of the chimney?
Practical, patentable solutions are material-
ising ou this interesting subject,*
WHERE PRACTICE MAKES IMPERFECT.
LADY: “ Do you ever look for work? ”
FRESHAIR FRED : “ Yes, mum, I do. But me eyesight ain't so good as it useter be.”
“Ague”: Clarence approached a farm
towards evening and entered. In answer to his re-
quest for “employment,” the cocky asked: “Do you
know anything about grubbing?” “Yes,” said
Clarence, manfully, and was sent up to have a feed.
Next morning the cocky gave him a spade, a mat-
tock and an axe, and Clarence thought of the honor
of old England, and determined that whatever an
Australian could do he would. It was half a mile
to the ground to be grubbed, and on the way the
immigrant’s thirst for information was his downfall.
“Excuse me,” he said ; “but will we need all these
tools to kill them with?” Then the cocky showed
him out, to face once more Australia’s magnificent
distances.
* * * *
“Berkeley”: No hospitality in the Bush?
Rubbish! I had stayed to dinner, and was waiting
for my horse to finish his feed, when the daughter
of the house addressed me: “Y’ mus’ be feelin’ dull.
Come up th’ paddock, and I’ll show yer the place
where father committed sooiside.”
* * * *
“Austra,” from a distance: —
To “Vagabond” and other seekers for snake-bite
cure, let me recommend perusal of an article in
Queensland Agricultural Journal for March, 1911.
The theories and experiences
of more than one scientific
and professional man are
given; also information as
to how to distinguish poison-
ous snakes and their bite
(after the bite) from non-
poisonous. Some alleged cures
are supplied; but it is stated
that it is doubtful if there is
any universal cure, each par-
ticular breed of crawler re-
quiring a special dope of its
own. The ligature is unani-
mously recommended when
the bite is in certain parts of
the human frame, but is
classed as useless for others.
When used it must be loosen-
ed each half-hour to let in
some fresh blood. Failure to
do this may mean mortifica-
tion and amputation. Imme-
diate bleeding and thorough
sucking, which is stated to be
quite innocuous to the sucker,
is the best first aid. Per-
manganate and strychnine are
made to appear nearly as
deadly as the snake-juice.
Patients have been known to
die through unscientific dosing with these goods,
as well as from fear, after being bitten by a
strictly non-venomous reptile. Vinegar is recom-
mended for injection to the cut. It is some conso-
lation to read that far more snakes than usually sup-
posed are not deadly in their bite. The worst of it
is that “Vagabond” and a lot of other estimable
denizens may be bitten by something harmless, and
killed by the deadly remedy before this can see print.
“Eddyson” : The shy Australian suitor is
a numerous class. When Rowe died at Crow’s, he
left a little fat widow of 28, and Daley, her nearest
neighbor, suddenly developed an interest in the lone
woman, which he manifested by standing afar off,
and gazing at her house. He indulged in this form
of fervent love-making for hours at a time. On
occasions he ventured to the back door, grinned
into the kitchen, made a breathless Observation
about the weather, and fled again. One Thursday
Mrs. Rowe met Daley on the Wheatfield-road. He
stopped her with the usual meteorological items,
crumpled his hat, pawed the road with his large
feet, and said: “Well, I s’pose I gotter be goin’.
There’s a letter to post.” Daley walked 11 miles to
Wheatfield and 11 miles home again, and the butcher
brought the letter back to Mrs. Rowe at Crow’s next
day. It was from Daley, and contained the laconic
proposal, “Have us?” The widow was agreeable,
but Daley had gone into hiding, and after the third
day Mrs. Rowe stuck her acceptance on his hut
door: “Notice to James Daley. Mrs. Rowe is will-
ing.” This drove the sensitive James into deeper
cover. After a fortnight the widow received another
letter: “If you wanter marry me, you’ll have to
get the Hogans to hold me.” The Hogan brothers
were appealed to, and generously undertook to per-
form the friendly office of roping and holding. James
Daley was married in a very dim light, with one
Hogan actually holding him to the scratch, and two
other Hogans guarding the exits in case of a break-
away
* * * *
“Jack”: Let me tell “Kowhai” (B.
23/3/’11) that if “he knows what he knows,” I
know that which he doesn’t know. I have been
through Maori pa s, from Dunedin, in the South, to
Whangaroa, in the Far North, and my circle of
white friends includes, several doctors and chemists,
and when “Kowhai” infers that the Maori lady
uses race-suicide methods to prevent the appearance
of the once-frequent half-caste (why half-caste?), he
is wrong. Can “Kowhai” point out to me one in-
quest where the verdict showed attempted child-
murder as the cause ? I can show him plenty among
the whites. And let “Kowhai” remember that it
was the pale ha who brought the unmentionable
diseases to M.L. As to dirty “niggers’ ” paws: In
the poorer districts, where Henare is not in pos-
session of a motor-car, there is plenty of “digging
in the dish,” I admit. In other parts, especially in
the South Island and the Wairarapa, there is an evi-
dence of cleanliness which would be a credit to any
white. Some . Henares employ white cooks. Know
of one Mere whose kitchen floor is clean enough to
eat your shark from. Not far away is a white
Mary, who comes from an “old English family.”
A Maori dog wouldn’t eat bones from her table.
* * * *
A magistrate at Gawler (S.A.) lias been
called on to settle a point that he admitted was be-
yond him. The claim was for damages for trespass
on plaintiff’s stud heifer by an inferior bull. De-
fendant said the bull was an infant of six months,
running with its mother, and he called a vet., who
swore that it could not propagate its species under
12 months old; but practical farmers swore they
knew of cases under six months. The Bench coyly
declined to be accepted as a judge on that point, but
remarked acutely that Time would show. Meanwhile
it gave small damages for the “trespass.”
“Bush Botanist”: In answer to the pa-
thetic appeal of “F.C.” (B. 30/3/’ll) for a forti-
fication against flies, I provide the remedy. A chain
belt of castor-oil trees, mixed with Cupstia gluti-
nosa, Siline glutinosa, Nicotiana glacicum and ta-
baccum, is all that is necessary, and the plants can
be obtained in Australia.
“Eavesdropper” describes an evening at
Sam Slavin’s: —-
“Go and tell yer mother it’s near yer bedtime;
clear out now', and stop yer noise. . . . Yes, as I
was say in’, the labor question is gettin’ a fair ter-
ror ; carn’t keep a milk-boy a week; thinks ’e
ortent to do no more than ’is boss. I give ’em 12
bob a week too. Last chap I ’ad used to stop ’is
graft every time a neighbor come near the yard.
I’d get talkin’, yer know, about one thing and an-
other, and thinkin’ the milkin’ was goin’ on all
right. Blarst me if he wouldn’t be sittin’ at the
same cow' when I’d ’ad me talk out, though the
missus ’ud be jobbin’ ’im all the time to ’urry up.
She w'ould have nine or 10 milked herself, and the
young crawler loafin’ ”
“Dad, Mum says she ain’t through the separatin’
yet, and to chuck a bit of wood on the fire, and see
the kettle is boilin’ against she’s done.”
“All right! Maggie, bring me a bit of w'ood, and
’ere’s the kettle; fill it up and you and Sammy
bring it. I’ll ’ang it on. Now, wheel the baby;
’e’s wakin’ up, and keep the kids quiet. Jim an’
me carn’t ’ardly ’ear ourselves speak. . . . Wot
was it I was sayin’, Jim? Oh, yes; about them
young loafers gettin’ 12 bob”; —
“Dad, Mum says will yer give ’er a lift with the
big vat?”
“All right. Suse ain’t as strong since she got
knocked over with the roan bull larst winter.
Used to be able to lift it ’erself, but women carn’t
stand much roughin’, yer know. Still, she’s
a middlin’ good worker—good with the milk-
in’, and separatin’ and feedin’ the pod-
dies and pigs. Not much at fixin’ up a fence,
though. I laughed at ’er the way she fixed it once,
when the cows broke into the maize. Well, I must
go and give ’er a lift. Wait and have a drink of
tea; she’ll be done soon. .. . Well, where’s the
vat, Suse? Jim’s gone; wouldn’t wait for a drink
pf tea ; the kids too noisy I s’pose. Wot made yer
so long to-night at the separatin’?—it’s near 10
o’clock.”
ON THE WINGS OF THE WIND.
“There goes me johnny cakes. I reckoned they
was a bit on the light side.”
“Pick”: “Tarboy” (B. 30/3/’ll) notwith-
standing, the tallies of the men in the recent cham-
pionship bartering match at Toowoomba were not
much to get excited about; and unless Zimmerle can
go considerably better when pushed, his reign as
top-dog will be short. If I remember rightly, Zim-
merle’s record panned out equal to about 128 sheep
for eight hours’ work. How would the performance
stand against that of Volney Day, who, beside me a
couple of years ago, at Bibbenluke (N.S.W.), where
the sheep are high-class merinos, and admittedly
hard to shear, cut out 644 in two and a-half days?
“Tarboy’s” yap about sheep that are a disgrace to
the pure merino is away from the question, for now-
adays that class of sheep does not exist on any big
station where notable tallies are made, and only
very rarely among the small owners. The sheep-
men of Australia have long since recognised that
grass is too valuable to be eaten by inferior wool-
lies, and well-bred rams are, in these days, cheap
and easily obtainable by those who want them.
THE DREAM BEAUTIFUL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Last night I had a dream of drunks. The casement
opened wide,
And on a sea of crayfish red I sailed away outside !
The streets ran amber-brown with beer, as full as
any tick,
And loaded trams came lurching past, half-tight, and
breathing “Hie!”
The street was drunk, the pave was drunk, and
drunk as drunk was 1:
I sailed round forty thousand curves before my goal
drew nigh.
Then sweet it broke upon my sight—l tried to rise
and cheer —
The office of The Bulletin, a-wash with floods of
beer!
Yea, yellow Beer and glorious poured over me in
sprays,
As through the door I swept in state upon a tide
of “crays” !
Straight to the Cashier’s room I rolled, and there
did instant biz —-
He paid me for one beery verse with forty casks of
fizz!
Small time had I to “hie” my thanks, for swift I
swept from shore,
And straight along and up the stairs to see the
Ed-i-tor,
Who sat within a bath of stout, the foam about his
chin,
To write a leaderette on “Drink” beneath a shower
of gin.
“Hie, sir!” said ho. I answered “Hie!” when
swift, from “off” the scenes,
Ihe beery staff arose and drove me thence witli dead
marines.
1 floated on past office boys, all loaded to the brim.
Till wading through the fragrant ooze there strode
a figure grim.
There was no joy upon ,his face, no bottle in his
hand;
He did not lurch, or breathe of beer; outrageous!
He could stand!
He drew me from the streaming crays ! He propped
me ’gainst the wall,
lie spoke to me of Temperance, he sorrowed o’er
my “Fall.”
I gazed upon the face. ’Twas he! In shouts of ire
I broke —-
A Poet, yes, and sober!— then I knew I dreamed,
and woke!
N.S.W.
AUGUSTUS-HIC-BLOWFLY.
THE SONG OF THE BAIN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
List to the rain !
It sings a song:
Of cattle at play where the grass is long,
Of watercourses,
And galloping horses,
And laboring bees the blooms among;
Of herbage spreading across the plain,
And waving grain!
And in the lay
The rain-drops trill.
There are notes of joy for the tanks that fill,
For the nesting plover
That circles over
The salt-bush flats beside the hill;
And over the restless flood-streams grey
That sweep away.
But though the rain
Sings soft and clear,
There’s a note of warning for all to hear;
For the streams are flowing,
Unchecked, and going,
Though the land may faint with a drought next
year.
“Beware the drought!” sings the falling rain.
“ ’Twill come again !”
N.S.W.
RIVERINA.


THE DEADLY HATPIN.
MERE MAN (who has revived an obsolete fashion to meet the emergency): “Now, ladies, do your worst!”


GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
ħ
WORLD-FAMED
HATS.
For
QUALITY.
For
DURABILITY.
THE
RIGHT DRINK
On a Sea Voyage.
+
It has been found by many people that one of the
best drinks aboard ship is the non-alcoholic O.T.
This beverage is a stomachic of undoubted merit,
whose action tones the stomach, aids digestion
and prevents the unpleasant sensations of nausea
which accompany sea-sickness.
For the tropical regions O.T. has proved a par-
ticularly safe drink, as it derives beneficial pro-
perties from certain ingredients much used by the
inhabitants of hot climates to resist fevers, dysen-
tery and other inflammatory complaints. O.T.
carries the endorsement of the highest medical
and analytical authorities, and is now obtainable
in any part of the world.
PERIONAL
ITEMS
“ B.B.” : A cat may look at a king ; and
there are times when it seems that O’Malley has
the very goods that a cat is most desirous of
seeing.
A cable message says that, at his corona-
tion, King George will wear a “stole ” symbolis-
ing all parts of the Empire. This puts it much
more frankly than usual.
“Earbiter”: I see Victoria has been won-
dering what title John Murray, of Victoria, will
bring back from the Coronation. K.C.M.G., of
course—Knight of the Couch and Mosquito
Gauze.
Dave Dunsmore, sen., who, on the N. S.
Wales South Coast, was reckoned to be the best
judge of a horse in this hemisphere, recently
pulled up suddenly at the 78th post. In better
days his colors were carried ahead at many a race
meeting, and up to the time of his death he
claimed to be the head, tail and body of the Ber-
magui Jockey Club, he having, for past good
services, been made a life member of that once
flourishing, but now defunct, organisation.
PROFESSOR WALTER THOMAS
MILLS, M.A., Socialist, Author
and Lecturer.
The annual meeting of the Melbourne
Chinese Inland Mission has just been held. This
extraordinary organisation was formed bv a des-
perate fanatic named Whitridge about 15 years
ago. He was a man of fiery energy, with all the
spirit of Peter the Hermit or Michael Davitt, the
latter of whom he much resembled in appearance.
He had observed the success of Cheok Chong and
others in setting the “missies” to work on the
Chinese in Lillie Buk-street. So says Whitridge:
“ This is the thing for China. The girls will be
like Samson’s foxes, with the firebrands at their
tails, let loose in the cornfield.” So he got to
work on his mania, and he and his successors
must have sent over a hundred young women to
China. Money for the futile job has been raked
up in a remarkable way; for though Whitridge
had none of his own, he was an amazing success
at getting it from others.
The “Dickens centenary stamp”
scheme, recently described in The Bulle-
tin, was very nearly blown up by one of
the descendants. Henry Fielding Dickens,
ICC., wrote to London Times declaring, in
effect, that the allegation that some of
the novelist’s descendants had to
tighten their belts was grosslv exag-
gerated. He denied that the" 14 de-
seendants generally” were in
necessitous circumstances, and
said that the exaggerations
made the testimonial open to
misconception. The testi-
monial committee replied
stating that it had always
deprecated undue insist-
ence upon the family’s
pecuniary circumstances,
and that the affair was
not a chari table scheme,
but “ a small payment
on account of some
deferred royalties,
remedying to some
extent the injustice
done by the copyright
laws.” Mollified by
this explanation, Henry
Fielding Dickens grace-
fully said that the mat-
ter had been thoroughly
cleared up, and de-
clared that the scheme
was a great and unique
recognition of a glorious
ancestor. So things are
as they were before—
except that Henry Field-
ing Dickens, K.C., has got
an advt. out of the
scheme.
After spending six
months on Kalgoorlie
Worker, “Milky White”
Emerson goes to Brisbane to
manipulate the Labor lever there.
Died recently, on the Burdekin (Q.), Hero,
an ancient aboriginal who was one of the six
black trackers taken from North Queensland to
Victoria to follow the Kelly bushranging gang.
The yarn about that business kept him in beer
and ’bacca the rest of his life.
Alex. F. Chomley, who died suddenly the
other day on an inter-State steamer, left a big
crowd of Victorian friends behind him. He had
been for years prominent in tennis squares and
golfing circles, and professionally was also known
in many angles as chief surveyor to the Metro-
politan Board of Shirks. Privately he was 44,
and a son of H. M. Chomley, once in command of
the Victorian police.
Victoria’s departing Carmichael gave the
gushing Madden a dig in the ribs the other day.
His Ex. has been summed up as a decent sort of
Scotchman, an eloquent bazaar-opener, and a
good judge of cattle, beetles and other feats of
nature; and he patiently stood all the panegyrics
on these counts. But when Madden poured out
the grease promiscuously at a ’Varsity function
lately, Carmike quietly rose and told the ap-
plauders that the greatest flattery he ever got was
when he unexpectedly found himself mentioned
in Mrs. Creighton’s life of Bishop Creighton. He
had studied under the divine, and the mention he
got was: “Carmichael knows his own limita-
tions.”
Some Australian birthdays for May : Pro-
fessor Henderson (S.A.), 41 on the Ist; Vic.
State Labor-leader G. M. Prendergast, 57 on the
6th ; Sidney Kidman, 54, Bishop Reville, 67 on
the 9th ; Professor Perkins (S, A.), 40 on the 11th ;
Chief Justice Pope-Cooper (Q.), 63 on the 12th ;
Chief Justice Madden (Vic.), 67 on the 16th ;
Bishop Langley, 75, Newton Moore (Agent-
General W.A.), 41, and ex-Rail ways Commis-
sioner Pendleton (S. A.), 74 on the 17th ; Henni-
ker Heaton, 63 on the 18th ; Melba, 46 on the 19th ;
Railways Commissioner Moncrieff (S.A.), 66, and’
cricketer Warwick Armstrong, 32 on the 22nd ;
Governor Strickland, 50, and Governor Car-
michael, 52 On the 24th ; Dean Vance, 83 on the
25th; Bishop Riley (W.A.), 57 on the 26th;
Judge Backhouse, 50 on the 28th; poet George
Gordon Mcßae, 78 on the 29th.
South Aus. has a bush and river parson
named “Moss” Gabb (it’s not his fault). Sent
to Penola, he soon struck strong opposition. The
hall wherein he preached put up the rent and the
salvation of souls was getting expensive; so
“Moss” set to work and with his own hands
built a church. After it was finished some young
scoffers stood in front and kicked up a row. Gabb
set the congregation singing a hymn, left the
pulpit, got out the back way, and knocked one out.
“Now, quickly,” he said, “you other fellows; are
we going to have any more argument? They’re
finishing the hymn, and I must get back.”
It was a real old warrior that answered
the final roll-call in Adelaide last week. Alex-
ander Aird —he does not seem to have been any
relation to the late millionaire of London and
Egypt, whose brother also lives in Adelaide—
was one of the few remaining Mutiny veterans.
A boy when the Crimean war started, he was in
the Scotch Highlanders at 18 before it finished,
and started for Sebastopol. That was an event-
ful voyage. The regiment was sent back to
Malta without landing, and then ordered to China.
That meant, in those days, going all round
Africa, and at Capetown the troops were hastily
switched off to Calcutta. It was by giving that
order, by the way, that George Grey always
claimed to have saved India—though some his-
torians deny him the credit of it. Aird was in
time for all the fighting that ended in the relief
of Lucknow. He was a Scotch constable after
that, and a good Australian for the last 28 years.
Being a member of the S.A. Corps of Veterans,
he was buried with full military honors. This is
a delicate attention that is much appreciated—in
anticipation ; it was the late Wybert Reeve who
secured it for the old warriors.
THE REAL DIFFICULTY.
“Perhaps you don I think your daughter could
live on my salary?”
“Oh, yes, I think she could! But what would
you do ?”
Though the big, snow-crowned figure has
caught many another eye, the Scythe-bearer has,
so far, happily overlooked Peter Kerr, F. R.I. B. A.,
architect of the Parliament Houses in Melbourne,
the Law Courts, G.P.O. and other buildings.
The fine old man first looked on a dour and misty
world in Aberdeen on April 21, 91 years ago.
A young Maorilander named B. Bryant
recently sat for the Law Society’s examinations
in London, and gripped two of the five prizes
offered. He was one of four who secured first-
class honors, was awarded the John Mackrell
prize as the tj>est practical lawyer of 150 entrants,
and collected the Kent Law Society’s prize.
Still, the 149 home-grown British students cut up
three prizes amongst them, so they get the odd
trick—which, of course, shows that Foster Fraser
was right when he referred to the decadence of
the British stock when transplated to these
southern parts.
“Australia’s Governor” is in Sydney—
the man the Commonwealth appoints to repre-
sent it in Papua. He is J. H. P. Murray, Judge
and Colonel, but Australian first of all. After
five years’pioneering service, first as Judge and
then as Lieut.-Governor, he left on furlough for
Europe, and is now spending a month in Sydney
before taking up his work again. The Murrays
have a way of doing things. The father was,
first, Speaker and then President of the Legisla-
tive Council in N. S. Wales. Of the two sons
one went to England, and became Professor
Murray, the foremost authority on Greek litera-
ture in Britain. The other studied law, and was
for years Parliamentary draughtsman in N. S.
Wales, and afterwards Crown Prosecutor and
Acting Judge. In his spare moments he
hammered away at Defence, and, practising
what he preached, worked up to a colonelcy. In
Papua they don’t wait for him to die before
speaking of him with admiration. He is the sort
that appeals to the tough pioneer—a six-footer, in
his day a champion boxer and swordsman, a man
who never looks to see what sort of coat a man is
wearing, and who never imagines that it is neces-
sary to hang frills on himself in order to be
dignified.
Among the Mooltan’s quarantined pas-
sengers was Charles Burnett, K.C.8., one of the
three Australians who have risen to be generals
in Britain’s army, the other two being Baker
Russell and Reginald Gipps. Burnett was born
in Woolloomooloo in ’43, spent his boyhood in
St. Kilda (Vic.), and at 14 was taken to England
to be educated. Last year he retired from the
Western command in the Cold Land, and slipped
away to see his native land and his old home.
The house, in Burnett-street, St. Kilda, still
stands, though little else remains of Melbourne as
he knew it. The intervening years were spent
largely in India, though Ashanti and Afghan
campaigns—the siege of Kandahar being in-
cluded in the latter —took up a fair slice,
and left his breast covered with medals.
More important to Australians, he was British
attache with the Jap army in the Russo-Jap war.
He hasn’t yet opened his mouth to tell what he
knows of the Monkey and his tricks, but he has
already said this one sensible thing: “I haven’t
been here long, but I am told you have a Labor
Government that is going to play the deuce. I
don’t believe it. lam certain your working men,
like those in the Old Country, are patriotic. . . .
It is evident your Labor men care very much for
the defence of Australia.” Then, with a chuckle :
“ They look after its health, anyhow. It is 50
years since I left, and the first thing my country-
men did when they laid hands on me was to clap
me in quarantine and vaccinate me. But I for-
give them. It was necessary.” Burnett will have
•a look round and then go on with his wife to visit
his brother in Maori land.
The yarn is related with great joy by a
N.S.W. Judge’s wife. One afternoon, while Ins
Honor, dressed in his oldest clothes, was working
in his garden, a man put his head over the fence
with: “Say, mate, any chance of a job here?’
The person in the ancient togs was thinking hard
at the time, and snapped out, after the manner of
husbands, “ Better ask up at the house.” At the
house the man called for “ the missus.” She told
him they already had a gardener. “Yes, I
know,” he replied. “ I’ve been watching him.
He’s rooking you, missus; he’s no gardener.
You better give me a show.” But the Judge still
keeps his billet.
Justinian Oxenham is the new permanent
head of the Commonwealth’s Postal Department.
When Barton formed his first Federal Ministry
Drake, of Queensland, was made Postmaster-
General, and had the job of organising the depart-
ment. Until he stepped out of State into Federal
politics he had been Postmaster-General inPhilp’s
Bananaland Ministry, so he naturally took along
some of the men he knew to help him lick the
department into shape. And that’s how, first,
Scott and now Oxenham got to the top. The
latter started at- Warwick, the little township
which has a habit of sending out youngsters who
do things.
Now that Australia’s first famous native-
born portrait painter, John Longstaff, is again in
Australia, why not try to catch him and instal
him as art director and instructor in painting at
N.S.W. National Gallery, the queen of which is
surely his spirituelle and charming “Lady in
Black”? To quote the instances of his power,
there are his masterful portrait of Henry Lawson,
painted in a couple of hours, and that beautiful
canvas, “The Painter’s Wife,” in Bendigo Gal.
lerv. Mr. Longstaff, who has just been commis-
sioned for portraits of Professors Anderson
Stuart and MacCallum, of Sydney University, has
a personality which has always strongly com-
mended itself to students, and under him the
national art school would probably prosper.
The Socialistic Professor Mills, now study-
ing Australia and throwing in an occasional lec-
ture, was born in a hunter’s cabin in the Adiron-
dacks. He earned wages when only eight years
old, and was permanently away from home, as a
farm hand, at 13. By his own exertions he
climbed to the degree of Master of Arts. He
got his first lecturing experience as a temperance
lecturer; but that platform he soon found much
too narrow. He went into the bigger question of
economics, and his text-book on “The Science of
Politics ” has gone through 14 editions. In 1904
he was called in as an expert and drafted the ad-
vanced provisions in the Oklahoma State Consti-
tution, and they were adopted. The English
Ambassador, Professor Bryce, said it was the best
document of the sort ever adopted by a State.
Mills had a few words to say in the recent
Referenda campaign. He didn’t profess to have
made a. complete study of Australian politics, but
on his experience of the working of the American
Federal Constitution he had no hesitation what-
ever in advocating two Yeses.
SENATOR GUTHRIE, of S.A., the
sailor’s politician.
Goulburn district (N.S.W.) is a laud of
large families and many cricketers. Recently a
local team, whose members were all named Tick-
ner, played and defeated an eleven named
Jeffery. The winners are now out after a third
eleven named Horton, while the losers want to
take it out of a crowd called Blake. Some years
ago a team of brothers named Henderson, which
included also umpire and scorer, issued a chal-
lenge to play any similar team in the world.
They heard of no acceptors.
“FAT IS GRATEFUL.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Squatter Sam McOaughey recently paid in a sum of
£17,000 land-tax, and expressed himself as being glad to
do so much for the country that had done so much for
him.—Press Item.
Send the tidings flashing round
To our land’s remotest hound,
Till the dullest of our dullards gets his pate-ful,
Of the latest we have heard
(Quite incredibly absurd ! )
That, at last, we’ve found a case where Fat is Grateful.
Other years have passed away
Which (as hist’ry writers say)
Brought the nation into view of matters fateful ;
But a novel era breaks,
When the nation wildly wakes
And discovers—is it dreaming? Fat is Grateful.
In the meagre and the lean
Mostly gratitude is seen
When they kiss the hand of Kindness for her plateful;
But a case occurs at last—
Let it peal upon the blast!—
Where, in spite of all his blessings , Fat is Grateful!
If the fashion would but spread,
It may be the lifted head
Of the wealthy would not raise our passions hateful ;
We should grudge good fortune less
If the Lucky learned to bless
And to show their Luckless Brethren—Fat is Grateful.
QUEENSLAND.
PHILANDER FLAM.


m
VV\
m
W
m
M
&
is
agg
2S
res.
£g
S&i
3S
m
fflEr
JSN
V>
m
n
!§£2
&
■<V\
1
,3®
!&
SjS
£«sg
E
1
/*-
§ '3*k
&
I:
Sk
v^;
1
M-
a®*
ss
W
5^
i£s
V*
'gfe
Ml
n
fcsi
\#-
iV*
H
m
\<x
W
'■r'y
ffjm
V_!
a
vsf.
|H
m
B
...
;-:
• • ■
m
m
. m
S Oni
IS®
■■.«
'•••.
m
8m
m
./
m
■
Is
>Y
Mn
m
S':
sal
m
m
Ml
is
m
m
m
■ '-'Wii
m
SAKS;
•mk
w
rfy'
m
W'
38!
,w -^vu.
II
te Siwtfta
;; <■■
‘teask
r*<o; ■. '■''
Fx^'
L-VN^i I *'
Ntt&V -••: V»
ill
»1
fJiS®
Mi
jR^SSs
SK
A BosKer Time in a BosKer Rug'
Our Guinea Bosker Rug, 100 x 80 inches, is the thing for all Australians, being specially made for us by our old friends
Vicars, at Marrickville, of “ all wool, pure wool, and nothing but wool.” We send carriage free to any address in Australasia.
By the bye, have you our book for 1911, of 120 pages, illustrated “For Men” ? If not, send for it.
GOWING BROS.,
Pioneer Distributors of Australian-Made Good*,
480, 488, 490 George Street; and
7,9, 11, 13, 15 17 Royal Arcade, Sydney.


IVTOTICE TO SAWMILLERS.
Double Cylinders—
In stock in Sydney, 2 “ Robey ” 1911 Model Portable Steam Engines
25 Nominal H.P. ( 87 Brake Horse-Power),
30 Nominal H.P. (105 Brake Horse-Power).
Those requiring- prompt delivery for the most up-to-date Portable Engine should communicate with
ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER & CO
Circular Quay (Hast), Sydney; or 34 Queen Street, Melbourne.
GREENING’S
SCREENING.
Agate Steel, Phosphor,
Bronze, Brass.
Write for particulars to
FRASER & CHALMERS LTD.,
Equitable Building:, Melbourne;
Macdonald Street, Kalgoorlie;
New Zealand: D. M. DAVIS, Agent, Hall of
Commerce, High Street, Auckland. [2
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Colonial Sugar Repining Co. (Sydney):—
Reserves
(not; in-
cluding"
£500,000
Depre-
To Re- ciation
Profits. Dividends. serves. Fund).
Mar., 1904..£100,412 10 p.c. = £lOO,OOO £412 £422,913
Sept., 1904.. 105,111 10 „ „ 104,608 503 423,416
Mar., 1905.. 155,322 15 „ ~ 164,705 414,033
Sept., 1905.. 112,343 10 „ „ 109,965 2,37 S 416,411
Mar., 1906.. 112,042 10 „ ~ 110,000 2,042 418,453
Sept., 1906.. 111,679 10 ~ „ 110,000 1,679 420,132
Mar., 1907.. 110,827 10 „ „ 110,000 827 420,959
Sept., 1907.. 118,057 10 ~ „ 110,000 8,057 429,016
£75,000 of reserves capitalised .. 354,016
Mar., 1905.. 134,782 10 p.c.= 124,037 10,745 364,761
Sept., 1908.. 146,493 10 „ ~ 124,885 21,608 386,369
£350,000 of reserves capitalised . 36,369
Mar., 1909.. 162,632 10p.c.= 142,500 20,132 56,501
Sept., 1909.. 168,881 10 ~ ~ 142,500 26,381 82,882
Mar., 1910.. 175,590 10 ~ ~ 142,500 33,090 115,972
Sept., 1910.. 196,714 10 „ ~ 142,500 54,214 170,186
£150,000 of reserves capitalised .. 20,186
Mar., 1911.. 207,428 10 p.c. = 150,000 57,428 77,614
There probably never was a time when this co. was
told a cheerful tale at its half-yearly meeting". The
bigger the profits, the more dismal the lamentations,
as a rule. The future is always full of gloom. “As
it is certain that the mills now working in Queens-
land and N. S. Wales can easily make all the sugar
needed in Australia, during the next four years at
any rate, some loss may be expected to follow the
over-development of the industry,” says the chair-
man, alluding to the Queensland Government’s de-
termination to help in establishing more sugar mills.
Still, “only one-third of the loss can fall on us, this
being our share of the present production of raw
sugar in the Commonwealth.” Nevertheless, The
Bulletin hasn’t any expectation of seeing the co.’s
profits diminished by £65,000 or so per half-year.
True, the co. may produce only one-third of the raw
sugar, but practically all the producers of raw sugar
have to send their output to this co. for refining, and
if the co. can’t make its 10 p.c. (with a bit up its
sleeve) one way, no doubt it will in another. As to
that 10 p.c., note that it is only nominally 10 p.c.
During the past 3J years alone no less than £575,000
of profit has been capitalised. That is to say, though
the shareholders put up only £2,425,000, they get
the dividend on £3,000,000; so the 10 p;c. is really
12 i p.c. And that is on the basis of the capital
paid up in 1907, and on the assumption that all the
capital up to that time had been bona-fide paid up
by shareholders. As a matter of fact, though, there
had been previous bonus distributions, so that the
dividend is actually more than 124 p.c. And what
it could pay, if it divided all its profit, there is no
telling. The plain fact is that the bonus distribu-
tions alone during the past four years have averaged
over 5J p.c. p.a.
The other day Acting-Prime Minister Hughes,
after reciting some facts and alleged facts, declared
that the co. was “making at least 20 p.c. profit,”
and added —“It is not a fair return. It is an unfair
return. It comes from the pockets of the people.”
The chairman referred to Hughes’s speech, and
asked —“Now, what are the facts?” And he pro-
ceeded to show that, in some respects, Hughes was
wrong, technically, at any rate. But he did not, and
he cannot, say that even 15 p.c. is a fair thing. That
is the whole point. The co., splendidly managed in
many respects, is too greedy. Sugar is a modern
necessity; and this co. is making Australia pay
anything from £lOO,OOO to £150,000 a year more
for this necessity than it should have to pay. That
greediness isn’t going to pay in the long run. It is
simply inviting attack. So far, admittedly, the at-
tack has been repelled—as it was last week. But, of
course, last week is not going to end the matter. It
is simply a question of a little more agitation. That
is the plain situation that the investor has to face.
Burns, Philp and Co., Limited, shipowners,
South Sea Island traders, merchants, etc. (paid-up
capital, £300,000) :
Writ- Added
ten to Re- Re-
Mar., Profit®. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1901. .£49,690 8 p.c. =£22,000 £27,690 £219,036
1902.. 58,076 8 ~ ~ 22,000 36,076 255,112
1903.. 60,775 8 ~ ~ 22,000 38,775 293,887
1904.. 41,900 8 ~ ~ 24,000 £12,372 5,528 299,415
1905.. 44,586 8 ~ ~ 24,000 20,586 320,001
1906.. 43,276 8 24,000 19,276 339,277
1907.. 55,637 10 ~ ~ 30,000 20,000 5,637 344,914
1908.. 69,787 10 ~ ~ 30,000 10,000 29,787 374,701
1909.. 54,915 10 ~ „ 30,000 24,915 399,616
1910.. 70.167 10 ~ „ 30,000 15,000 25,167 424.783
1911.. 79,890 10 ~ ~ 30,000 49,890 474,673
But that doesn’t cover the part of the latest report
and accounts that shareholders will glue their eyes
to. The directors break the news in this cautious
way: “The policy pursued by the co., while pro-
gressive, has always been conservative, and neces-
sarily so, as sums much in excess of the amounts
available for dividends have had to be regularly de-
voted towards developmental work and in providing
new and additional steamer tonnage. To keep pace
with the demands of the continued rapid expansion
of trade, the directors have now decided upon the
adoption of a forward policy, by which the co.’s
smaller steamers will gradually be replaced by new
vessels of a larger tonnage and increased speed. This
will shortly necessitate an increase of both the
authorised and paid-up capital.” The present paid
capital is £300,000; there are 250,000 shares fully
paid to £1 and 100,000 £1 shares paid to 10s.,
and the co. has power to issue another 150,000
shares. While the directors are about it they pro-
pose to do something worth doing, and allow for all
the expansion they can even dream of. They will
ask, therefore, that the nominal capital be raised
from £500,000 to £2,000,000. It is further pro-
posed that for every £1 share the co. shall issue
another £1 share, or 250,000 altogether, and that
the 100,000 10s. shares shall be fully paid up to £l,
the £300,000 required for the two transactions being
drawn from the reserves. That will make 600,000
shares. At the same time a further 100,000 shares
will be issued; the holders of the 600,000 shares
will be entitled to apply for these pro rata. Also,
the applicants for these new shares will receive one
free share (to be also paid for out of the reserves)
for every two they pay for. The payments for the
100,000 shares will be spread over 12 months.
Boiled down, then, the holder of, say, 300 present
fully-paid shares will get 350 shares for nothing,
and will be entitled to apply and pay par for 100
shares, while the holder of 300 10s. paid shares will
have his shares paid to £l, and will then have the
right to apply and pay for 50 shares, while getting
25 for nothing. For a few years past the co. has
been paying 10 p.c.; previous to that it paid 74 or
8 p.c. The co. has 29 years behind it; in 14 years
it has paid 10 p.c., in 12 years 8 p.c., in two years
7$ p.c., and once 12 p.c. For the past five years an
aggregate profit of £330,396 has been shown; and
of that a total of £150,000 has been divided. On
the present capital ( £300,000), plus the watered
capital ( £350,000), the profit would thus average
about £lO 3s. p.c. p.a. From the aggregate profit,
however, large sums have been written off. Assum-
ing, though, that they need not have been written
off-—assuming that sufficient depreciation had been
charged direct to Profit and Loss —it is plain that
the co. could not conveniently pay a 10 p.c. div. on
the enlarged capital out of earnings equal to only
£lO 3s. p.c.—and managing director James Burns
certainly would not pay it. A 3s. p.c. margin isn’t
enough for him. Further, though it is quite possible
that the co. has made a good deal more profit during
the past few years than it has shown, those last few
years have been an unusually fat period. The co.
may pay 10 p.c. on the enlarged capital; but the
investor who relies upon it will very likely be sadly
disappointed. The management, in a memo, to share-
holders, certainly holds out no such hope. “For
some years past,” says this memo., “the co. has
paid 10 p.c. p.a. div. . . . and in the ordinary
course of events the same amount ( £30,000 p.a.)
should be payable upon the [enlarged] capital, thus
establishing the paid-up capital upon a 5 p.c. divi-
dend basis.” Not that this management will be satis-
fied to pay 5 p.c. perpetually. It may get back to
10 p.c. But meantime the management no doubt
sees quite well that a co. which nominally pays a 5
or 6, or even 7 p.c., can make a stronger appeal for
concessions, or to be even left alone, than one which
nominally pays 10 p.c. Which is no doubt the real
reason for the present tranfer of reserves.
The figures show a few changes:—
1900. 1905. 1909. 1910. 1911.
£ £ £ £ £
Capital .. 275,000 300,000 300,000 300,000 300,000
Reserves .. 213,346 344,001 435,616 479,783 516,674
Liabilities .. 222,294 167,334 123,260 195,435 203,396
Stock.. .. 186,881 164,318 162,625 180,551 198,037
Properties .. 144,679 171,000 155,000 155,000 140,000
Shipping .. 72,707 110,600 108,447 168,485 191.148
Book debts .. 197,233 215,748 239,946 245,011 255,430
Cash and in-
vestments.. 71,447 74,827 90.703 84.340 94,262
Other assets.. 37,693 74,842 102,154 141,831 141,193
There is a biggish increase in ship property. The
co. is diving deeper into the Java and Singapore
trade, and that means larger and more expensive
steamers. It is very doubtful, though, whether
these can show anything like the profits that the co.
has been accustomed to make on its capital in the
Island trade. Book debts are, as usual, very heavy.
Apparently the Islands are a region of long credit.
And long credit generally means large losses. Still,
the last thing the co. is at all likely to be charged
with is a reckless habit of giving away credit—or
anything else, for that matter. Cash and investments
stand' at £94,262. Some of the' co.’s investments
are known to have turned out remarkably well—
the Queensland Insurance Co., for instance —and a
man probably wouldn’t beggar his widow by giving
£150,000 for the lot.
How does a Burns-Philp investment pan out at
current prices? Paid shares have run up to 555.
Sixty shares at 555.= £165. Twenty shares at £l=
£2o._ Seventy bonus shares. Total 150 shares=
£lB5. If the co. pays 5 p.c. on the re-formed
capitals £7 10s. p.a.=:£4 Is. p.c. If it pays 6
p.c.— £9 p.a.=:£4 17s. 6d. p.c. If it pays 7 p.c.
= £lO 10s. p.a.= £5 13s. 6d. p.c. So the co. will
have to pay over 6 p.c. on the re-formed capital to
return 5 p.c. to the investor who pays 555. for the
present £1 paid shares.
There has been much talk about 8., P.’s 10s. shares
and the basis on which they come into the scheme.
Naturally the holders of these shares would prefer
to pay up the other 10s. and then come in on the
same floor as the others. The holder of 60 partly-
paid shares in that case would have his holding
brought up to 150 at a cost of £5O. Under the
directors’ scheme, he gets only 90 shares at a cost
of £20 —and the other 60 shares would be very
cheap at a cost of £3O. It is a nice point; should
the directors have called up the 10s. share and then
treated all alike, or 1 should they have done what
they are doing, using the reserves to pay up the
unpaid 10s. per share? The crux of the matter
appears to be —What was each shareholder’s interest
in the reserve ? Suppose there had been a liquida-
tion, how would they have shared? Obviously the
fully-paid would have got just twice as much as the
contributing. Two men—A and B—have each 60
shares —one lot paid, the other contributing. One
(A) will get 60 bonus shares+2o to be paid for+
10 of the second bonus shares. The other (B) will, first,
be entitled to 30 bonus shares. That is right. But
in this critic’s view he ought to be entitled then to
take up just as many new shares as the other man,
because, if he had only paid 10s., he had accepted
the liability for another 10s. So this person’s view
is that B should be entitled to 30 bonus shares+2o
to be paid for+five of the second bonus shares. If
he cared to pay up the other 10s. on his present
holding, he would then have 115 fully-paid shares
at a cost of £5O. In other words, this writer be-
lieves that the directors are perfectly right in saying
that the holders of the 10s. paid shares are entitled
to only half the number of bonus shares that the
others are entitled to, because that represents their
proper proportion of the assets; but it seems that
they should be entitled to apply and pay par for
just as. many new shares as if they held fully-paid
shares. The latter concession is, however, not worth
very much. The only difference, in fact, between
the directors’ scheme and what this writer judges
to be the theoretically perfect scheme, is that the
former allow the 10s. paid shares to apply and pay
for one new share where this writer would allow
them to apply and pay for two.
National Bank of Australasia (Melbourne):
Net Ord. Pref. To Re- Re-
Profits. 3J p.c. 5 p.c. serves. serves.
Mar., 1904.. £36,233 £20,868 £7644 £7,721 £105.831
Sept., 1904.. 36,950 20,868 7644 8,438 114,269
Mar., 1905.. 36,130 20,868 7644 7,618 121,887
4 p.c.
Sept., 1905.. 36,104 23,849 7644 4,611 126,498
Mar., 1906.. 41,144 23,849 7644 9,651 136,149
4£ p.c.
Sept., 1906.. 44,982 26,830 7644 10,508 146,657
5 p.c.
Mar., 1907.. 48,158 29,811 7644 10,703 157,360
Sept., 1907.. 49,943 29,811 7644 12,488 169.848
Mar., 1908.. 42,305 29,811 7644 4,850 174,698
Sept., 1908.. 49,017 29,811 7644 11,562 186,260
Mar., 1909.. 59,170 29,811 7644 21,715 207,975
6 p.c. 6 p.c.
Sept., 1909.. 59,390 35,773 9173 14,444 222,419
Mar., 1910.. 60,564 35,773 9173 15,618 238.037
Sept., 1910.. 60,392 35,773 9173 15,446 253,483
Mar., 1911.. 66,815 35,773 9173 21,869 275,352
The last half-year’s profit is shown in the table
after writing £5OOO off premises and transferring
£2OOO to the officers’ provident fund. Looking
down the first column in the table it will be seen
that the disclosed profits have been simply bounding
along. It may be that, in the earlier terms, the
bank was making profits which it did not disclose. •
It is suspected that the National, like a good many
others, did not have a thorough cleaning up after
the burst of the great Melbourne boom, and for
many years afterwards was putting aside profits and
writing down assets. In other words, assets which
probably it had supposed to be worth £lOOO were
found to be really worth only £BOO, so that £2OO
had to be made up out of profits; and as the £2OO
became available, the asset was gradually written
down to its true value. It is quite possible that a
good deal of undisclosed profit went that way—to
wipe out old bad debts. But it is also quite pos-
sible that assets which seven or eight years ago
were thus written down to £BOO, have since been
sold for more than £800; and in that case the sur-
plus has been available either for internal reserves
or for profits. In the former case they wouldn’t, of
course, be disclosed; in the latter they would be
reckoned in with profits in the ordinary way. This
may explain why the visible profits are so much
greater than the visible profits of a few years ago.
But there have been other pumps at work increas-
ing the flow into the treasury. Take a 10 years’
comparison:—
Liabilities— 1901. 1911.
Notes £335,688 £340,101
Bills, etc 1,235,716 1,595,836
Government deposits 521,296 648,663
Private deposits .. 5,964,996 9,906,062
Assets—
Liquid (coin, etc.) .. 3,464,264 4,175,296
Advances .. .. 5,304,635 9,672,564
Bank premises .. 452,998 420,155
Other properties .. 429,204 48,165
Thus advances—the things out of which a bank
makes most of its money—have increased over 80
p.c. in 10 years; so, other things being equal, the
profits from that source should have increased at
least 80 p.c., too—probably more, because expenses
don’t usually increase in proportion to increase in
the turnover. “Other properties”—assets on hand
from the boom-time —have been reduced to almost
nothing. That means that values have risen to a
level which has induced the bank to sell. But the
bank has been letting out very large sums of money
at the same time; and if it has accepted the same
basis of valuation, it may possibly find itself left
with another big batch of depreciated securities
when the tide runs out. This isn’t inevitable, how-
ever. Theoretically a bank shouldn’t make any bad
debts or losses. It should always be covered. But
when competition for advances is keen, as it has been
lately, and always is when money is plentiful, the
inclination is to offer to advance just a little bit
more on a security than the next-door neighbor. So
far the seasons have favored the bank wonderfully.
It began its vigorous policy five or six years ago,
and, so far as the earlier advances are concerned, it
ought to have made itself very safe. But its ad-
vance business is still extending so rapidly that its
risks must still be very substantial indeed, unless,
of course, it lias managed to get the business in
spite of insisting upon a large margin between the
advance and the present value of the security.
The chief figures have moved in 12 months this
way:—
Mar., TO. Mar.,’ll.
Not,esin circulation.. £330,986 £340,101 Inc. £9,115
Bills, etc 1,523,994 1,598,836 Inc. 74,842
Free deposits .. 3,797,760 4,228,316 Inc. 430,556
Deposits at interest 5,850,823 6,326,410 Inc. 475,587
Liquid assets.. .. 4,794,750 4,178,296 Dec. 616,454
Advances .. .. 8,017,862 9,672,564 Inc. 1,654,702
Premises, etc. ... 479,156 468,321 Dec. 10,835
The bank thus owes £12,493,663, and has liquid
assets totalling £4,178,296. That means 33 p.c. ;
so, on its present resources, the bank is already
trading up to its full capacity, consistent with
safety, if not a trifle beyond it. The bigger the
proportion of the funds in non-liquid assets the
bigger also the risks. Further, the larger the de-
posits and other liabilities in proportion to share-
holders’ funds, (capital and reserves), the bigger the
shareholders’ risks; and in this case the bank has
just upon £7 of the public’s money for every £1
of its own, and that is a heavy proportion. Yet, in
spite of risks which, so far as figures tell, are un-
usually large, the visible profits are not very large.
Calculated on capital and reserves combined, they
show up as follows:
Sept., 1907.. £6 0 1 p.c. Sept., 1909.. £6 19 3 p.c.
Mar., 1908.. 5 1 5,, Mar., 1910.. 7 0 8,,
Sept., 1908.. 517 2 ~ Sept., 1910.. 619 1 ~
Mar., 1909.. 619 7 ~ Mar., 1911.. 712 6 ~
Nothing definite is, however, to be deduced from
that; a comparatively low return may mean that the
bank is only taking the best business, which nearly
always means a comparatively low rate of interest;
on the other hand, it very often means that the
bank’s assets are fully valued, and that it hasn’t
much internal reserves.
* * * *
The Adelaide Co-operative Society
Divi- Writ-
dend Bonus on ten Re-
Profits. (4 p.c.). Purchases. Off. serves.
Aug., 1903.. £2286 £720 3|p.c.=£1459 £242 £1234
Feb., 1904.. 2433 704 3f ~ ~ 1448 254 1261
Aug., 1904.. 2529 719 3f „ „ 1385 364 1322
Feb., 1905.. 2680 754 3| ~ ~ 1454 299 1495
Aug., 1905.. 2399 780 3| „,, 1531 251 1332
Feb., 1906.. 3128 789 3| „,, 1560 523 1588
Aug., 1906.. 3150 808 3§ „,, 1597 423 1910
Feb., 1907.. 2898 845 3$ „ ~ 1590 282 2091
Aug., 1907.. 3989 877 4i ~ „ 1955 573 2675
Feb., 1908.. 4138 935 5 ~ „ 2385 610 2883
Aug., 1908.. 4737 1007 5 „ „ 2790 581 3242
Feb., 1909.. 4255 1052 5 „ ~ 3003 344 3098
Aug., 1909.. 4994 1103 5 ~ ~ 3182 632 3175
Feb., 1910.. 4483 1179 5 „ „ 3253 294 2932
Aug., 1910.. 5877 1284 5 „ „ 3658 464 3403
Feb., 1911.. 6262 1350 5 „ „ 3873 539 3903
The last line is to some extent approximate only;
it is assumed (1) that directors’ fees and other
exes., to be appropriated presently, will absorb
£200; (2) that the usual 4 p.c. will be paid on
capital; and (3) that the usual 5 p.c. bonus will
be paid on purchases, and that it will absorb £3873.
It is a curiously old-fashioned society this, which
still hangs on to many of the quaint methods of the
early and very unbusinesslike promoters of co-
operative effort. For instance, there are no di-
rectors. There is a “committee.” And the com-
mittee, though it draws fees quite regularly, never
charges them up with other working expenses; it
waits for the general meeting to authorise their ap-
propriation. Also, there are no shareholders. There
are only “members.” And there is no fixed capital;
“members” may withdraw it at any time. The last-
mentioned freak is the only one that matters much.
The shareholders and directors can call themselves
what they like, and it doesn’t matter; but when a
big trading society, with its funds in merchandise,
stock and premises, etc., is liable to be called upon
to pay out all the capital almost on demand, then
it is built on a rotten foundation; and it is liable
to bring the co-operative system into discredit.
Naturally, being liable to be called on to repay
capital (at present £78,468) and loans ( £13,945)
almost on demand, the co. has to keep a large cash
balance lying idle; so the shareholders don’t get
anything like the return they should. But that
doesn’t matter. It is the inherent weakness of the
present system that does matter. A bank that pro-
posed to take people’s money on the same terms,
and with no capital of its own, would be laughed
at. What the management apparently never has
recognised is that all the real capital it has is its
poor little reserves.
Berrima District Farm and Dairy Co.
(N.S.W.):—
Bonus to Written Re-
Dec., Profirs. Dividends. Suppliers. Off. serves.
1900.. £2460 10 p.c. =£92 £685 £4Ol £3,771
1901.. 2370 10 „ „ 94 1010 307 4,730
1902.. 3482 10 „ ~ 94 2313 390 5,415
1903.. 2609 10 „ ~ 95 2000 368 5,561
1904.. 2898 10 „ ~ 98 2525 295 5,541
1905.. 4073 10 „ „ 98 3130 342 6,044
1906.. 4929 10 ~ ~ 99 3862 373 6,639
1907.. 4394 10 ~ „ 99 3450 338 7,146
1908.. 5967 10 „ ~ 99 4240 320 8,454
1909.. 4363 10 ~ „ 99 1465 295 10,958
1910.. 1591 10 „ „ 99 1051 275 11,124
This belated comparison shows a great shrinkage in
the year’s profits. But, it isn’t as alarming as it
looks. This is a co-operative concern, and the crux
of a co-operative constitution is that the profits
should go to the co-operators. It doesn’t matter
much whether they get the profits in the shape of
higher prices when they supply the cow-product to
the factory, or in the shape of bonuses subsequently.
This co. has lately changed its methods a little, and
by reducing the commissions by about 25 p.c., has
given the suppliers higher net prices month by month
—which is better for them than for the co. to pile
up profits and then distribute them in a lump.
“The aim of co-operation,” the directors say,
“should be to ascertain the lowest cost at which
effective marketing can be accomplished, and then
fix the commission charge on that basis” —-which
states the position exactly. Big bonuses, whether
in butter-marketing or in life insurance or anything
else, may be a delusion and a snare. They mean
that you are paying or being paid (as the case may
be) too much in the first place. It is to be hoped
the cow co-operators have been got .to thoroughly
understand that; for no doubt there are plenty of
non-co-operative rivals ready to make capital, if
they can, out of the shrinkage in bonuses. The co’s
position is, as usual, apparently sound. True, lia-
bilities amount to £20,096; but that is mostly for
the last month’s supplies, and on the other side
there were £15,798 of cash, £12,227 of book
debts (most of the customers pay fortnightly or
monthly), and £2235 of stock. The creditors are,
therefore, most amply protected.
Warwick Butter and Dairying Co. (Queens-
land), which began with a deficit of £329, pre-
liminary exes.:—-
Bonus to Written De-
June, Loss. Dividend. Clients. Off. tioir
1903.. £lOl Nil £436
1904.. 273 Nil 703
Profit.
1905.. 73 Nil 630
Reserves.
1906.. 2399 8 p.c. =£233 £546 £823 167
1907.. 1830 8 ~ „ 376 898 723
Forfeited capital, £24 .. 747
1908.. 2305 8 p.c. = 547 670 769 1066
1909.. 2381 6 „ „ 442 578 806 1621
1910.. 4009 8 ~ ~ 595 1261 1107 2667
Dec.,
1910.. 1863 1223 3307
This co., with factories now at Warwick, Allora and
Texas, writes down its assets prudently, and, in
general, it appears to be run on safe lines. The
only liabilities, apart from a few trade debts, are
for December supplies ( £8719) ; and the liquid
assets (including £7117 cash and deposits) are
considerably in excess of the total amount owing
to the public. It is a sound co., whose accounts
inspire confidence.
Kempthorne, Prosser andCo.’s N kw Zealand
Drug Co. (Dunedin, M.L.): —
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
Jan., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1901.. £30,593
19QD f £2,747 7 p.c. = £13.549 £2554 17,237
1 Premiums on shares issued .. £1527 18,764
1903 i 14,941 7 p.c. = 13,649 1292 20,056
Premiums on shares issued .. 209 20,265
1904 / 16,479 7 p.c. = 13,083 2000 796 21,061
Premiums on shares issued .. 17 21,078
1905.. 15,466 7 p.c. = 13,686 1780 22,858
1906 { ]6 ' 250 7 >• .. 1 3 - 751 2499 26,357
’‘ \ Premiums on shares issued .. 174 25,531
l Depreciation account Lrans-
-1907.. ■{ ferred to general reserves .. 7851 33,382
( 18,652 7 p.c. = 14,000 3520 1132 34,514
1908.. 17,816 7 ~ ~ 14,000 1600 2216 36,780
1909.. 16,962 7 ~ ~ 14,000 1000 1962 38,692
1910.. 16,707 7 ~ ~ 14,000 1336 1371 40,063
1911.. 18,225 7 ~ ~ 14,000 1500 2725 42,788
This is a trading co., carrying a large stock, valued
in the present accounts at £154,582, which is equal
to more than three-fourths of the capital. Obviously
there is no way of telling whether that stock is
conservatively valued. Yet almost everything depends
upon that valuation. Profit in a concern of this
kind doesn’t consist of the difference between what
the co. paid and what it got for the goods sold,
less working expenses. From the figure thus ar-
rived at has to be deducted the amount by which
the unsold stock may have depreciated, either from
old age and exposure, and mice and worms, or
through a fall in the market value of the goods.
Plainly also the extent of that depreciation is a mat-
ter of estimation only ; so to a great extent one has
to trust the management. If it goes wrong, the in-
vestor is liable to go wrong. No doubt one can form
some kind of opinion from the financial history of
the co. Here, for instance, we see that the manage-
ment has built up visible reserves of over £25,000
in nine years, without increasing the rate of divi-
dend ; and that is a sign that the management aims
at putting the co. into a strong position. These
comparisons, too, are favorable; —
1902. 1909. 1910. 1911.
Capital .. £194,102 £200,000 £200,000 £ 200,000
Overdraft .. 15,466
Other liabilities 36,507 75,774 59,442 57,810
Stock .. .. 146,247 181,347 149,622 154,582
Factories, etc. 76,108 103,005 103,193 104,062
Book debts .. 45,201 56,829' 53,513 53,827
Cash, etc. .. 3,432 4,373 6,761
In 1908 the liabilities were £90,670 ; they are now
£57,810. That is a movement the right way, be-
cause no new capital has been got in meantime.
Stock (book value) has been reduced from £175,486
to £154,582. There may be less stock carried now;
but it is also possible that the reduction is due to
a more stringent valuation. On that point, however,
it can only be repeated that nothing definite can be
said. _ Even the directors themselves may be misled.
Thus in 1902, it will be observed, a very small profit
was shown, and, as the directors explained at the
time, that was “owing to the necessity of making
special provision in respect to stock and book debts
at the Wellington and Christchurch branches, to
meet undue inflation of values, which have only re-
cently been discovered.” 1
* * * *
The East Greta Coalmining Co. (N.S.W ):
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
Sept., 1904.. 10 p.c. 5,703 3000 12,952
Mar., 1905.. 8.053 10 „ ~ 6,250 3000 11,755
Sept., 1905.. 8,427 5 ~ ~ 3.185 2000 3,242 14,997
Mar., 1906.. 3,528 5 ~ ~ 3,554 1000 13,971
Sept., 1906.. 2,368 5 ~ ~ 3,750 12,589
Mar., 1907.. 6.666 5 „ ~ 3,750 2000 916 13,505
Sept., 1907..14.916 10 ~ ~ 7.500 7000 416 13,921
Mar., 1908..19,782 10 ~ ~ 7,500 6500 5,782 19,703
Sept., 1908.. 16,529 10 ~ ~ 7,500 2500 6,829 26,532
Mar., 1909.. 9,510 10 ~ ~ 7,500 2000 10 26,542
Sept., 1909.. 9,130 10 ~ ~ 7,500 1630 26,542
Loss.
Mar., 1910.. 3,073 Nil 23,469
Profits.
Sept., 1910..26,263 15p.c. = 11,250 4000 11,013 34,482
Mar., 1911..12,665 15 „ ~ 11,250 1,415 35,897
“The co.’s collieries have not worked so well as
during the previous half-year, the trade having fallen
off considerably.” This, of course, follows on the
strike. The trade of the previous half-year was,
however, quite abnormal. Stocks had been depleted,
and consumers’ first care was to build them up again.
That half-year, therefore, supplied much more than
the half-year’s consumption; and the profit was much
bloated thereby. Now the pendulum has swung back ;
and it isn’t certain whether the swing in that direc-
tion has finished, even if the Vend gets through all
its troubles. This co., certainly, is unusually well
situated. It has not only got a good trade, and
good men to push and hold the trade —the latter
possession is very important—but it owns a valuable
railway, too. The two mines (the East Greta and
the Stanford Merthyr) are lumped with the railway
property in the published accounts, and there is no
way of telling nowadays how much is written off
their book-value out of profits. In past years it is
certain that large sums were disposed of in that
way ; so that, though the item covering the fixed assets
stands at £189,808, it is doubtful whether much
more than the odd £19,808 represents the mines.
Anyway, as far back as five years ago the two mines
had been written down to £23,613. Assuming that
the railway is good property, the position is, there-
fore, very strong indeed. If that asset is worth
what it stands at in the books, then it seems safe to


PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (Limited),
Trustees, Executors,
Administrators,
Attorneys under
Power, Ag'ents, etc.
Absolute Security, Efficient
and Economical Management.
Having handled almost every
class of Assets, it possesses a
much wider experience than
is possible for an individual.
Trust Funds to Lend
at from 4 per cent.
2, 4 and 6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
A. T. MACKENZIE,
Write or Call for Booklet. Manager.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire .
Monotael
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
sav that all the real value of the two mines in excess
of’ (approximately) £ 20,000, represents an internal
and undisclosed reserve. Of the two mines the East
Greta is freehold; the other is leasehold.
Evidently something is in the wind with
regard to the City Bank of Sydney, an institution
which has kept its real position a mystery for very
many years past. Within a month the shares
have jumped from £4 15s. to £5 15s. It is satis-
factory to get this hint that the bank has put itself
into a good position again; but it is a pretty
rotten state of affairs when hints of the sort come
from the Stock Exchange and not from the published
accounts.
“Gwy Some insurance cos. got off the mark
rather too smartly in catching the N.S.W. Workmen’s
Compensation worm. Some wily agents told all
and sundry that they were compelled to take out
accident policies under the Act. Of course, there is
no obligation to insure—if a man likes he can per-
sonally lump a risk as big as a bank, though he
would be a fool to do it. Still, the point is whether
there 'wasn’t false representation, which the law
might regard disrespectfully, no matter how conser-
vative and haughty the co. might be which the agent
represented.
Baker’s Creek, Hillgrove (N.S.W.), crushed
136 tons for 2070 z. gold. The crushing came from
the stopes over No. 14 level, and in the development
of the northern ‘shoot. The latter work is to be con-
tinued by driving No. 13 and No. 15 above and be-
low the present workings. No. 14 has been taken 92
feet to the north, and average assays hold out a
good hope of this block of ground becoming profit-
able. Some experiments have been made with the
cyaniding of tailings, which give an extraction aver-
aging 9s.' 2d. But a larger plant may be required,
and if so shareholders may be asked to fork out a
call to pay for it.
* * * *
Wylie Creek, one of the New England
(N.S.W.) dredging shows, is still having poor luck.
When things go right with a dredging concern,
the money flows in; but it doesn’t take much to
make them go wrong. Clay beds first, and then
floods, were responsible for the past half-year’s poor
results —a net loss of £43.
“Oof Bird” (W.A. ) looks at the best-
known of the Kalgoorlie mines, and reports as fol-
lows: “Ivanhoe. —From the 1620 ft. down to 2120 ft.
levels, the main shoot shows a decided tendency
to shorten in the south end; but below the latter
point a big slide dipping to the south makes its
appearance, and so far the drive at 2270 ft. indicates
that the shoot is inclined to lengthen again. If it
doesn’t, a considerable reduction in the mine’s ore
reserves is inevitable. Great Boulder. —Unless new
makes of ore are located east of the present main
workings, Boulder’s career as a great mine is ended.
The greenstone, which has come over to the west,
and pushed the backbone lode of the property well
into Golden Horseshoe ground, is the real cause of
the present ominous state of affairs. Golden Horse-
shoe. —This mine has certainly got a nice windfall
in the Boulder boundary lode at 2800 ft. ; but, as The
Bulletin lately mentioned, it will take from three
to four years’ sinking to reach this ore, and there is
not likely to be any material improvement in the
position till then. At present the mine is not
equipped or developed enough to warrant the treat-
ment of more than 25,000 tons per month, and if
the co. tries to do better than this the whole concern
will break down under the strain. Boulder Perse-
verance.—-Generally the workings are looking well,
and a big tonnage of broken ore is lying in the
stopes. Provided no tricks are played with the
mine, there is a good prospect of some more divi-
dends being paid to shareholders, especially from
mining in deeper ground, as the tendency of the ore
bodies coming west gives the Perseverance a chance
of getting something from the Associated at greater
depth. Kalgurli.—Recent drop in the output, and
the inability of the management to say at what
standard future returns are to be maintained, has
made speculators a bit shy of this stock. , The patchy
nature _of the ore certainly makes it hard to even
approximately estimate its worth, but a look through
the workings . would convince any mining • man that
the property is far from being ‘done.’ Development
towards the south end at 200 ft. should reveal big
tonnages of Bdwt. to 9dwt. ore, and, with these large
quantities of even grade ore to draw on, it should
be much easier to regulate the output in future.
But to avoid any further difficulty in this respect,
the co. would be well advised to increase the roast-
ing and crushing capacity of its treatment plant to
allow of an additional 3000 tons a month to be
handled. The best of the bottom levels in this mine
is the sixteenth. Here, from the small beginnings
of a 2ft. lode in the crosscut, the ore widened out in
the first few feeet of driving to a total of between
25ft. and 35ft. So far it has maintained that thick-
ness for a length of over 200 ft. Associated.—The
outlook is simply rotten, and if the new manager
has any reputation, he had better give notice as soon
as he reaches the mine, otherwise he will lose and
probably never regain it.”
An attempt is being made in the West
to form a co. to acquire the Never Never mine, near
Marvel LOch, together with equipment and 12,000
tons of slimes. One-half of The total issue of 40,000
ss. shares are offered to the public, 8000 are to be
annexed by the vendors as part payment, and 12,000
are to be held in reserve. So far mining has been
carried on to a depth of 160 ft., and to date the
treated ore has averaged 21s. Sulphides are showing in
the bottom of the present workings, but, except for
the bald remark that it is not known whether they
will cost more than the oxidised stuff to treat,
nothing is said about them. Silence, however, is
generally preserved when Yilgarn sulphides are
hinted at, and, therefore, it isn’t very remarkable
that few observations concerning them are made in
this case. Available ore is given as 100,000 tons;
but whether this means in sight, almost in sight, or
not in sight at all, is not clear. The fact remains
that, on the treatment of the tonnage mentioned, a
possible gross profit of £50,000 is figured on. In
addition to the share interest, the vendors are to
receive £4500, in monthly instalments of £lOO,
and £5OO has also to be paid to the trustee of a
certain assigned estate. If the flotation comes off
the co. intends to splash up £l5OO in the erection
of a vacuum filter plant, and it proposes to treat
the accumulated slimes right away. From this
asset, which appears to be the best of a doubtful lot,
a profit of £5550 is figured on.
Oroya Links (W.A.) is said to be get-
ting “favorable developments” in its optioned Gimlet
property, at Ora Banda; but, spite of this cheerful
announcement, it will come as a surprise if a deal
is effected. Briefly, the position is this: On the
surface the shoot has a length of 150 ft., and between
surface and 150 ft., where there is a length of 550 ft.
of 335. ore, about 20,000 tons of 40s. ore has been
dug out. Four winzes have been sunk below 150 ft., and
judging by these workings there are good reasons for
believing that the next 100 ft. of ground below 150 ft.
will yield 40,000 tons of 40s. ore. This, taking
costs and losses in residues at 305., would leave a
paper profit of 10s. per ton, or £20,000. This is
all very well as far as it goes; but, then, £25,000
has to be paid for the property, and an extra
£lOO,OOO found for equipment. So, assuming the
shoot continues to maintain its length, width, and
value in depth, it would take all the paper profit
earned from the ore in the mine down to 650 ft., to
pay the purchase price and cost of mine equip-
ment. In view of this, the Links people will pro-
bably make room for some less critical buyer when
the option expires.
* * * *
The Bulletin respectfully draws atten-
tion to the preliminary particulars concerning the so-
called mining properties which the recently-regis-
tered Australia United Goldfields, Ltd., of London,
is reported to be getting ready for flotation. All
going well, an area of 394 acres, comprising mines
at Bullfinch, Kalgoorlie, Mount Margaret and else-
where, is to be worked by the co., which, if it has
the requisite luck, will have a working capital of
£200,000, less flotation expenses. Of this amount
£lOO,OOO is said to have been underwritten to
enable work to be started at once. Three more or
less venturesome experts have reported on the pro-
perties for the vendors, who, by the way, receive
£20,000 and 525,000 paid-up shares. Altogether
some nine or 10 shows are included in the flotation,
and, although their combined prospects don’t offer
much security, annual net profits are estimated at
£312,000! Perhaps some magician might be able
on a pinch to produce this wealth, but in this present
writer’s opinion a mere mining man has no hope of
doing it. It is even doubtful whether he could get
out enough gold to pay expenses.
Exhibition 00. is the latest of the Yil-
garn boom flotations to liquidate, and several other
similarly-situated concerns are getting ready to fol-
low suit. Exhibition shareholders are to get some
of their money back, but how much is not yet defi-
nitely known.
Farr, chairman of directors of Chaffinch
(W.A.), put through the 55 bags of ore broken from
the much-debated trench. The total yield was 7oz.
16dwt.—20oz. to the ton for five bags, and 6oz. to
the ton for the balance. But, since the co. can’t
find any more of the mysterious deposit, share-
holders won’t get much consolation out of the figures.
Re Randolph Bedford’s defence of his own
attitude in the Bullfinch-Chaffinch business, and an
incidental reference to Gerard Williams’s report on
Mount Elliott (B. 27/4/’ll). Bedford said that
Williams tried to turn down Elliotts at 30s. When
Williams reported on Elliott, The Bulletin is told
that shares stood in the vicinity of 100 s. His report
was to the effect that, though the mine was valuable,
it did not justify the price at which shares were
then standing. On this question Williams says: “It
is true that my estimate for smelting cost has been
somewhat over the mark,' but the reduced value of
present reserves more than compensates for that
error. For the rest, I can only say that I only wish
every report I may write in the future will be so
well borne out in practice.” R. Bedford’s opinion
of G. Williams as a mining engineer is, of course,
Bedford’s own, just as Bedford’s opinion of Bullfinch
was Bedford’s own — The Bulletin’s was quite the
opposite. This paper’s high opinion of Williams’s
qualifications has been already expressed.
Westralian gold mining companies dis-
tributed £205,796 in dividends during the first
quarter of this year, making a total to date of
£21,557,199.
In the wake of the reports of the Cathcart
and the Duke and Main Leads come those of the
Great Southern and the Chiltern Valley, the two big
alluvial shows of Rutherglen (Vic.). For comparison
their figures had best be bunched: —
Costs per
Fathoms. Gold. Divs. Fathom.
Duke and M.L. .. 10,678 £24,878 £7,500 34/4
Cathcart . . . . 3,300 25,744 1.3,188 48/6
Gt. Southern . . 6,709 15,540 900 45/61
Chiltern Valley . . 3,887 8,841 51/6
Obviously the worst record is that of the Chiltern
Valley; next, that of the Great Southern. Look, first,
at the difference in the value of wash. Cathcart
tops the list easily, but it has nuggets and it works
shallow ground. The other three claims are vastly
bigger concerns, and they are now panning out wash
yielding thus: Duke and M.L., 465. 7d. per
fathom; Great Southern, 445. 4d.; Chiltern,
Valley, 455. 6d. There is thus not much variation
in gold contents, but there is a great difference in
working costs. This is so because the Duke and
Main Leads has better holding ground than the two
Rutherglen mines, and its workings are much nearer
the shaft. The best outlook appears to be at the
'Great Southern. This mine has had its two or three
years of tribulation like the Chiltern Valley, but a
tributary is meandering in, probably to enrich the
big lead. At the Chiltern Valley a rapid has been
proved in the gutter, a fall of 14ft. having taken
place in the bed of the lead within 472 ft., while
the normal dip should be under 2Aft. This has
meant the impoverishment of the gutter, and an addi-
tion to working costs. Ahead is still the Lock-out
tributary. This should join the gutter below the
rapid.
Another Daylesford prospectus is out. The
New Specimen Hill is to take over Vernon’s shaft
and the equipment, together with what was left in
the mine by the Bull crowd, which worked it as the
Victorian Star. That co. lifted 14,000 tons for an
average of but threw up the sponge, probably
because of the petering out of good stone at the Vic-
torian Cornish. Now W. T. Edwards and R. Smith,
both of whom sign themeslves “late manager,” and
one G. Rowlands, manager, testify that a shoot of
stone, 200 ft. in length, went underfoot at 330 ft.
Edwards writes: “From my personal knowledge of
the property, I believe there is every prospect of
your mine becoming a valuable one, and, if worked
legitimately, should pay dividends for many years.”
That “if worked legitimately” has an odd ring. One
would like to know if there is any hidden significance
in the phrase. The show seems entitled to a trial,
although to predict dividends at Daylesford is as
daring as to declare that a flat make there neces-
sarily brings good gold. The “loading” in the float
is not tough, probably because the market won’t
stand tough loads. The plant on the claim repre-
sents a neat asset.
Gippsland copper and platinum mine, Wal-
halla (Vic.), got into difficulties with its water-
jacket very soon after starting to smelt. The small
quantity of matte produced assayed 49 p.c. copper,
but a leaky furnace prevented a continuous run. The
mine reports speak hopefully of prospects, and the
smelting practice should be a great improvement on
the methods pursued in the ’6o’s. Generally speak-
ing, it is difficult to run a high-grade matte in one
fusion from low-grade ore, for it involves such a
high temperature that the furnace rapidly deteri-
orates.
* * * *
For the first three months or this year
Charters Towers crushed 38,224 tons for £114,497.
Of this £55,697 was from the mills, £28,723 from
cyanide plants, and £30,077 from smelters. Charters
Towers has thus to thank the chemist and metallur-
gist for what prosperity is left it. Day Dawn crush-
ings are the best on the field. Mills’ United averaged
£2 19s. 2d., New Brilliant Freehold £4 9s. 4d., and
East Mexican £5 Is. Bd. Brilliant Extended is ob-
taining better returns from its cyanide plant, and a
better price for its concentrates. It is the only show
on the Towers that gives a plain statement of
monthly profit or loss. Brilliant Deeps is doing some
interesting prospecting in deep levels. Paid-up shares
in this concern rarely come into the market; nearly
all the dealing is in contributing, which are at very
low prices in consequence of calls.
Hampden, Cloneurry (Q.), has been
flooded out. Five inches of rain fell in two hours.
The co.’s dam burst, and the water rushed into No.
2 shaft; the men underground had a narrow escape.
On top a man was swept away and drowned. Things
have, however, been got pretty right again, after
being hung up for a fortnight.
Acorn gold mine is a neighbor of the Oaks,
Oaks rush (Q.), and started its crosscut from the
latter’s boundary. The crosscut cut a formation 7ft.
wide. Assays show 15dwt., and driving is being con-
tinued in the hope of cutting the main ore channel.
These big formations, with leaders through them,
will certainly prove patchy, but it is highly probable
that some payable yields will be got.
The result of the inquiry into alleged
tin-stealing at the Great Northern battery at Her-
berton (Q.) is, as was expected, “not proven.” The
inquiry caused the only stir noticeable for a long
time in stagnant Herberton; and now it’s over, the
“sleepy hollow” will resume its slumbers. A new
broom with a strong hand behind it would, perhaps,
shake the place up; on the other hand, it- might
take the Day of Judgment to do it.
Another of the North Queensland tin
cos., which had a big name, has come to grief.
The Lancelot, out near Herberton, lias closed down.
The co. was lately boring with a diamond driU in
search of the elusive tin, and failed to get it.
Numerous “experts” have been imported from Ger-
many, but they couldn’t make the show pay. The
final collapse was, however, sudden and dramatic.
The German owners put a considerable amount of
cold cash into the affair; and there are people—-
tin experts, too —who say that they might have had
better chances if they had also put in some practical
experience.
Metallurgical works are nowadays adding
largely to the Australian output of gold. Mt. Mor-
gan, Great Cobar, Mt. Lyell, Mt. Elliott, Great Fitz-
roy and Mt. Perry are all helping. In Queensland
nearly one-third of the gold production comes from
copper smelters, and N.S.W. is on the same track.
Mt. Morgan’s monthly production of over 7000 oz. of
gold from copper ore is the largest, but Great Cobar,
which has altered its smelting practice, turns out
from 2000 oz. to 3000 oz. per month. Mt. Elliott (Q.)
is at present producing IOOOoz. per month from
copper ore that contains sdwt. gold per ton. That,
however, is exceptionally rich gold stuff. At Mt.
Lyell the crude ore smelted doesn’t average 15
grains per ton all round; yet the furnaces recover
10,000 oz. of gold and 600,0000 z. of silver for 12
months’ work. Both Mt. Morgan and Mt. Lyell, as
well as several smaller producers, have their gold
and copper separated at the Electrolytic Refining
Co.’s works at Port Kembla,.and that co.’s brand of
copper now ranks with the finest in the world.
* * * *
Blair Atliol colliery, near Clermont (Q.),
sent away 9877 tons of coal for March. The aver-
age is about 8000 tons per month, and the co. within
these limits is doing a profitable trade, and has de-
clared its second dividend. It is lucky in having
a thick, easily-worked seam at a shallow depth;
other mines in the locality have to sink through
hard basalt and sandstone, and then battle with a
heavy flow of water. Electric coal cutters are to be
introduced, though even without them the output
per man is wonderfully good. #
In 1910 the Rand gold output exceeded
£30,000,000, or approximately 34 p.c. of the world’s
total production. Working costs amounted to
£19,000,000, or 62 p.c. of the output. Dividends
were £8,876,085, or 29 p.c. Interest on loans,
capital expenditure, etc., made up the balance.
The stuff treated was .24,432,541 tons, and the
duty per stamp 7.19 tons.
* * * *
“Snell”: Just now, when freedom of contract is a
sacred shibboleth of the Employers’ Federation, it is
interesting to note how the one considerable employ-
ing body that could uphold the gorgeous principle in
its entirety behaves towards its employee. I know
one young man in a bank, who, about 18 months
ago, wanted to marry a nice girl. The bank let him
go so far as the purchase of a house and furniture,
and then said it couldn’t hear of his marrying. The
clerk secured a substantial guarantee that he would
not rob the bank to support his wife and family,
and the financial institution’s reply was the, im-
mediate removal of the clerk to the Backblocks.
That young man is still unmarried. It would appear
that, in the eyes of the lordly employing class, free-
dom of contract is off when the employee wants to
contract marriage. #
The mine manager’s report was being
read at the directors’ meeting. “Driving is now
slower,” it stated, “as we have lost the dig.” The
newly-appointed director straightened himself. “Dis-
graceful : I call it,” he said, indignantly. “I think
he should be written to and cautioned to be more
careful of the company’s property in future.” It
was. another director who was inspecting the mine
one day, and some feet of clean, smooth wall met
his eagle eye. Turning to the men, he said, in
his most grandiose manner: “Men, it’s sheer waste
of time to trim the rock off like that. Later on we
will have it all covered up with timber. No need
whatever to trim it. Don’t do it any more.”
“Leo Lear” : In the course of some defamatory
remarks on the mono-rail and my advocacy thereof,
“Puffing Billy” (B. 27./10/’10) arrives at various
conclusions that need investigation. Brennan
claimed for his mono-rail a pace up to 120 miles
per hour, cheaper construction on account of his
train being able to mount steep grades and get
round sharp curves, and lower working expenses;
and he produced a full-sized car to prove his con-
tentions. “Puffing Billy” raises no objection
to the claim as to speed so that passes as
undebatable. Grades are, as he remarks, largely a
matter of power. Now, power is a matter of cost;
find a cheaper power than steam, and your working
expenses are reduced. Brennan’s loco, is not a
steam-driven contrivance. There being less friction
on one rail than on two, the same power would pull
a heavier load up a hill on the single rail. Also,
going at twice the speed on a down grade, the im-
petus would carry the cars half as far again up the
next one. Each vehicle would not have separate
motors to drive its gyroscopes; they would all be
connected with the main driving-power, and thus
save the space and weight that “P. 8.” says would
eat up profits. The sum of the rolling-stock would
not cost more than the present-day outfit, as, with
the high speed, only half as much would be needed
to do the same work. As to curves, these are built
into a line for the purpose of saving cost of con-
struction, by getting round spurs and into gullies
that would otherwise require cuttings and tunnels,
banks and bridges. A line on a three-chain radius
curve can obviously hug the contour of the land-
scape closer than one on a 10-chain radius. In
Victoria, even with the narrow-gauge two-lines,
there are three-chain radius curves, and has anyone
heard of Weary’s narrow-gauge trucks taking a short
cut? As to stability of trains, I have pointed out
that the gyroscopes continue running after the
power is shut off ; besides, supports fall automati-
cally from the carriages when they come to a halt.
The heaviest part of the modern train is the en-
gine ; one belonging to the Erie railway turns the
scales at 205 tons. So rails are manufactured to
carry the engines, and not the goods, etc., behind
them. An electric mono-loco, of the above tonnage
would pull the planet off its axis, and would be
obviously unnecessary. So the single rail would not
have to be as heavy as the combined weight of two
rails. People object to the mono-rail, and say it
will not replace the existing types, because it is
a novelty. The world has heard the same about
steamships, mono-planes and almost every inven-
tion. Unless, therefore, some better objections are
forthcoming, I will continue to uphold the mono-
rail for works such as our transcontinentals. The
loss of a few hours along these lines may some day
mean the extinction of the earth’s one white con-
tinent.
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign Patents obtained.
Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Melbourne, and
Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write us for In-
ventors’ Guide.*
Evert engineer in charge of factories and milts
should give close attention to the power wasted in
transmission of power. The Hyatt Flexible Roller
Bearings save 20 per cent, power and 75 per cent,
of oil, so one of the first duties is naturally for
engineers to direct their special attention to these
bearings and to car boxes for trucks. Hyatts are
in continuous use in Cement Works, Ore Dressing
Mills, Factories, etc., in Australia. Bushings of
flexible rollers may be applied to loose pulleys or
truck wheels, etc. Should engineers require further
details, they can apply to the Australian Agents,
W. & J. Lempriere, Melbourne; or E. W. Hurst-
house and Co., of Wellington, the agents in New
Zealand.*
“FERRODOR” Paint.—Specially manufactured for
preserving galvanised iron and steel. Unaffected by
sea air, sulphur fumes, cyanogen gases. Used on
Princes and Victoria Bridges, P. and O. and N.D.L.
steamers, etc. Covers 1000 sq. yds. per cwt. WM.
ADAMS & CO., LTD., 175 Clarence Street, Sydney.*
Steam Users are invited to send for illustrated
catalogue of Engineering Specialities manufactured
by Bell’s United Asbestos Co., Ltd. Every descrip-
tion of asbestos goods, patent “Belfry” steam valves
and asbestos packed cocks and water gauges are
stocked at the depots of Bell’s Asbestos Austra-
lian Agency, Ltd., 315 Kent Street, Sydney, and
Beach Street, Fremantle; also at Victorian Agency,
W. 11. Lamond & Co., 328 Flinders Street, Mel-
bourne.*
* » * *
The most modern, simple and effective Vacuum
Slimes Table is the “Willley.” It is continuous , and
consists of a revolving drum which is partly submerged
in a tank of slimes or material to be filtered. The
drum is covered with a filter cloth supported on
grooves on the drum, which are connected by means
of holes to the interior to allow the liquid to be
withdrawn. Through the trunnions at the ends of
the drum the vacuum pipe passes to the interior.
This pipe connects with the interior of the drum,
through which the liquid and air are withdrawn by
moans of a vacuum pump. The filtered slime is re-
moved by a simple apparatus placed at or below the
level of the pulp in the tank. So that directly the
cake is removed, the surface of the filter cloth as it
revolves is immediately re-immersed in the pulp
ready to receive a fresh cake, thereby preventing the
sucking in of air, and consequent loss of vacuum
between the time the cake is removed and a fresh
one is forming. The residual liquid in the slime
cake is removed by distributing water over the sur-
face of the semi-dried cake. Owing to the fact that
the filter is circular in form, it will be seen that it
is continuous in operation, and has no complication
of valves to get out of order; furthermore, work is
being done continuously during the whole revolution
of the filter drum. The Austral Otis Engineering
Company, of South Melbourne, have the sole manu-
facturing rights of this filter.* [2
FOR SALE Cheap, Second-Hand, 15 Break H.P.
Tangjse Gas Engine, in good order. Apply Manager,
Bulletin Office, 214 George Street, Sydney.*
Dick’s Patent Balata Belting, invented and made
by R. and J. Dick, Glasgow, is the only original and
most reliable Balata Belting. To ensure getting
real article, branded with makers’ name, obtain from
Sole Importers, James Hardie and Co., West Circular
Quay, Sydney, who carry large stocks, guaranteeing
quality.* [2
Extract from the Finance Chronicle, London
(15/11/1910).—“Colonial Mutual Life Office: We
have been favored with a copy of an exceedingly
business-like prospectus just issued by this well-
managed Life Assurance Society, setting forth the
superior advantages of their Combined Life, Acci-
dent and Sickness policies. On comparing the rates
charged in the tables shown in the prospectus, we
find that at most ages the premiums quoted are ex-
ceedingly moderate; in fact, the rates are in many
instances about the same as the average premiums
charged by most offices for endowment life insurance
only.”
The Colonial Mutual Society is well known for its
low whole-life premium rates, but this new combined
policy, covering, as it does, those extra risks at the
exceedingly low rates quoted, only requires to be
known to be largely applied for.*
Where acids and minerals are potent in soil or
water, there can be no question that WOOD PIPE is
the most satisfactory pipe to instal. The Australian
Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Balmain, Sydney, will send
catalogue on application.*
Mine Managers and Engineers. —Send your orders
for miners’ drill steel, octagon, hexagon and cruci-
form, solid or hollow; manganese and chrome steel
castings and forgings; all tool steels and engineers’
tools, pneumatic tools, machine tools, saw blades
and frames, etc., to Bohler Bros. & Co., Ltd., 1
Angel Place, Sydney, and at Melbourne.*
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
If so, write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address, 163 King
Street, Sydney, and 9 Queen Street, Melbourne.* [1
An economical proposition in belt conveying of
great interest to mining and mill managers, en-
gineers, etc. “Condor” Brand Registered Black Sur-
face Hardened Conveyor Belting—specially adapted
for the Australian climate —for conveying ore, sand,
metal, wheat, coal, etc. Less than half cost of
rubber belting, giving excellent results, Kalgoorlie,
Broken Hill, and Wallaroo. Write for price lists
and particulars to Sole Manufacturers, Hopkins Bros.
& Odium Prop., Ltd., Leicester Street, Carlton, Mel-
bourne.*
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co. Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modern scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne.*
Nobel’s Explosives are the best and most re-
liable. We are agents for the original makers,
Hamburg. Large stocks on hand. Contracts at low-
rates. WM. ADAMS & CO., LTD., 175 Clarence
Street, Sydney.*
* * * *
Mine managers when requiring air compressors,
either belt, steam, or electrically driven, should not
fail to inspect the Reavell Air Compressor, when they
will be impressed by its simplicity, compactness and
portability. Owing to the working parts being en-
tirely enclosed it can be placed to work on any part
of the mine, either on the surface or underground.
The number of repeat orders which Messrs. Reavell
have received from the mining community proves
how greatly their compressor is appreciated. The
representatives for Australia are Messrs. Babcock
and Wilcox, Haymarket, Sydney.* [2
* * * *
Assayers, Mine Managers, and Prospectors
write to H. B. .Silberberg and, Co., 443 Bourke
Street, Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining
requisites and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc
pulverisers to 200 mesh; hand sample grinders to
120 mesh; Ainsworth’s assay balances sensitive to
1/13000 grain; prospector’s balances to 1/1000
grain ; weight; pocket transits ; gasoline combination
furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles; chemicals; etc.*


1
i
Estab
1818
World
Trade Mark.
Renowned.
STUHR’S
Finest Table Delicacies
Genuine Caviare.
Anchovies in Brine.
Peeled Shrimps.
Shrimps Extract.
Sold by all High-class Provision Dealers.
C. F. STUHR & CO., Hamburg.
English Export Agent: W. Lovegrove, London, E.C.
o
u
TJ_
Hurry up !
People want to get home to
their tea. If I’d as much time
as you seem to have to daudle
about, I wouldn’t stand here;
I’d go right away and get a
cup of Robur tea—that’s what
I’d do. “Come, move along
there please!”
A fool once said “a police-
man’s life is not a happy one”
-—that fellow had some sense,
any way, for it isn’t much of
a life except perhaps when
he’s off duty at home playing
with the youngsters.
“'Move on!” “Move on,
please!” What are you looking
for? A place to buy a pound
of tea to take home? Try at
the next grocer’s shop,
and ask for Robur No. i
h
Grade; if
you’ve not
tried it I’m
sure you’ll
like it, and
say it’s the
best tea you
ever tasted for
the money.
The Policeman
QUALITY—BUCHANAN WHISKY
A
WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, May 1, 1911.
My Dear Arini, —
The dead drop from the excitement of
Race week is shadowed by the ghosts of
bills which haunt the fashionable woman in
her morning-tea reverie. The smart cos-
tumiere wonders when she is going to be
paid. Ladies who cheerfully ordered a
hundred pounds’ worth of frocks apiece, won-
der how she is going to be paid. Husbands,
during the present meditation amongst the
tombs of departed junketings, figure as “mean
brutes.” The cold fact that, till he gets
his breath, the professional man with six or
seven hundred a year can’t pay £3O or £4O
for each race week frock is by the way.
The vogue of the evening wedding plunged
Randwick into an epidemic of uniforms last
week. Bridegroom, Dr. James Dick, as
Major of the Australian Army Medical
Corps, had the unchallenged right to sum-
mon to his assistance an armed array of
First Australian Infantry. These warriors,
in conjunction with a galaxy of feminine
charms, brought the wedding guests up to a
grand total of over 700. Governors, million-
aires, etc., will have to hire the Domain, and
switch on a few thousand troops, if they hope
to eclipse the gorgeous goings-on of the
nresent-day Sydney citizen when he enters
for the matrimonial stakes. The bride,
eldest daughter of Mr. and Mrs. George
Wall, of Randwick, was supported in her
triumphal procession to the altar by six
maids.
The smart American woman, in one of
her dress-hunting expeditions to Paris, dis-
covered the witchery of evening garb, allied
to the fascination of large, fluffy, feathery
hats. Australian women, who are getting
themselves talked about for their magnificent
plumage, soon grasped the true inwardness
of the French chapeau garnish as a decora-
tive top to a bare neck.
The Burrowes-Nott orange-blossom display,
in St. Philip’s Church, occurred on the same
evening as Dr. Dick’s excuse for feasting
the Australian infantry. The picturesque
pageant of artificial light, glittering evening
gowns inlaid with (more or less) real gems,
picture, hats, and other emblems of female
war-paint, has knocked the afternoon cere-
mony into a mid-Victorian memory. Ash-
lield,.the home-nest of Miss Mary Nott, who
married Mr. Percy Burrowes, of Melbourne,
under such highly ornamental circumstances,
was defrauded of its local right to hang over
its front fence and criticise the wedding-
guest finery. The party foregathered after
the ceremony at Petty’s Hotel.
The small boy, dressed up like a glorified
rag doll, is one of the minor offences of the
fashionable wedding. Every other bride
now finds it necessary to have an attendant
imp of this white-satin species to hold up
the tail of her skirt. He staggers under a
heavy-weight plumed hat, and figures as “a
page” in social reports. No normal boy of
mud-pie instincts would willingly encase his
nether limbs in white satin breeches. The
abnormal boy, with a feminine love for frip-
pery, ought to be turned loose in a boys’
school, and have the ostrich-feather obses-
sion hand-beaten into something likely to be
more useful to his country.
Hilda, the one daughter of chairman A.
W. Meeks, of the A.M.P. Society and the
Gibbs-Bright firm, became Mrs. Mars Gerald
Cater at St. Mark’s on Wednesday evening.
The Horderns, the Sees and the Meeks fami-
lies are joined by matrimonial links, and
there was a large gathering of this clan,
whose tartan is mostly gold.
The current exhibition at the Town Hall
gives 114 answer's to the riddle of the cen-
tury: “What shall we do with our girls?”
The opening ceremony last week is worth
resuscitating for a moment. Lady Dudley’s
sad voice and wet handkerchief speech was
a swan song of farewell to Australian girls.
Archbishop Wright’s rather smug utterance
dragged in the Bishop of London by the
scruff of his clerical collar; but the work
done by organising sec. Grace Burrows and
the indefatigable young persons who have
been vigorously hammering their thumbs
and chopping tissue-paper into almond
blossom for months, was buried in Wright-
eous silence. The Duchess of Bedford, who
has done as much for the Girls’ Exhibition
as the Gulf of Carpentaria, was, however,
served up as grace before meat.
At the same assembly the Admirable King-
Ilall made a bold descent on the hackneyed
lines, “When pain and anguish,” etc., and
cheerfully misquoted till a watery smile
gave a rainbow effect to a dull platform
gathering. The Anarchist suggests that a
bluejacket who can dance a sailor’s horn-
pipe would be a livelier performer at these
proceedings than an Admiral who can’t make
a speech.
As for the exhibition itself, Mrs. Sophie
Corrie, rising 77 (or thereabouts), is one .of
the demonstrating girls. In shameless de-
fiance of the Psalmist’s time-limit, she goes
on showing the world how to preserve and
bottle fruit. The Civil Ambulance nurses
are on hand, prepared to throw cold water
on hysterics or put a new patch on the tem-
per of any choleric male visitor who feels
that 114 demonstrations are too much for his
nerves.
Lady Dudley lost her heart to an engag-
ing puppy of the bulldog persuasion. “Mary
Gibbs” is her name, and Mrs. Griffin is her
fond owner. When the vice-regal train, with
its attendant A.D.G.’s, was torn away
from the worship of Mary’s front teeth,
her Ex. sent back to ask if the little bulless
were for sale. The owner reluctantly ad-
mitted she wouldn’t part with Mary’s
wrinkled brow for the King’s profile on gold
coins. Queer, how these ugly, lovable brutes
get their teeth into the affections of women
fanciers of dog-flesh!
In the Town Hall basement there is cook-
ing by electricity. A feminine critic said
she thought the puff-paste looked too brown
on one side. Her male escort refused to
pass an opinion, unless he was permitted to
go more deeply into the subject in dispute.
“It’s the taste I go by,” said this Solomon.
Upstairs Mrs. Bennett is also baking by
electricity. Human joints are liable to
get some of their misery cooked out of them
when they lend themselves to this enterpris-
ing dame, who roasts rheumatism on scien-
tific lines.
Mrs. Scott, from Willoughby part,
mothers the Ladies’ Poultry Club section.
She dotes on White Orpingtons. Every
feather of these prize fowls is alleged to
have stood on end with disgust the other day.
A voice from another Exhibition section hur-
riedly demanded a Poultry Club bird to
help in a cooking-by-electricity show. When
the ladies of the Fowl Fancier demonstra-
tion recovered from the shock, they sent an
ambassador with a chilling reply. “The
lady who wanted a fowl to bake could have
it. The price was three guineas!”
Lady Dudley has waved her wand, and
changed the annual Hospice Ball into a con-
cert. H. N. Southwell has ear-marked him-
self for the honorary struggle of seeing the
programme through to an all-star finish. The
Sacred Heart Hospice Ball has been as much
a regular fixture as spring onions, or July
sheep sales. It’s likely to need a good
hard Government House push to tame a
favorite ball into an entertainment that won’t
sprout the promise of a sit-down supper in
one corner of its tickets. June 10 will be
the occasion.
Minister for Education Beeby gave his
official blessing to the Photographic Show,
and opened it with an explanatory speech.
The Royal Art Society’s rooms are respon-
sible for housing these exploits with cameras.
Mrs. G. A. Barton, Miss Aitchison and Miss
Agnes Warburg seemed to be the sole sur-
vivors of their sex in this display of mascu-
line merit. Woman is either too busy an-
nexing the earth or washing up the dishes
to. go in for a photographic competition.
Miss May Moore and Miss Fletcher are mak-
ing headway with their portrait studies in
this city, but in a general sense the camera
and the girl are not on terms of frantic
friendship. Whether the “messy” business
of mixing themselves up with chemicals has
anything to do with this antagonism I can’t
pretend to know. But the determination of
Woman to keep off the photographic grass
is one of the unexpected phases of the show.
F. A. Joyner (S.A.) snares the fancy
with the brilliant sunshine he gets into his
girl and daffodil picture. He’s prone to pose
a well-grown young woman in rustic garb
before his camera, and fill her arms with
flowers or other rural luggage. He loads
his second-best girl with a basket of fruit,
and calls her “Sunjlight.” J. E. Purves
(N.S.W.) faces the domestic problem with
a flat-iron. The girl, labelled “Ironing,” and
the lady with the rolling-pin and paste-
board, catalogued “Baking,” excite a respon-
sive sigh in the merely feminine observer.
These home-grown industries are not so cool
and comfortable as the male photographer
would have you believe, my masters !
The two Sydney girls, Mirrie Solomon and
Jessie Elphingstone, who gave a successful
concert last week, are both pupils of veteran
Kretsclnnann, persistent hunter for musical
prodigies. Kretschmann is, and has been,
the most incurable optimist in sharps and
young semiquavers this city contains.
Some of his juvenile swans may have grown
into very ordinary geese. But he has
scratched in unlikely soil often enough, and
produced clever musical chickens. Two
centuries ago he would have been sent to
join the Celestial Choir in a stained-glass
window —surrounded by grateful Infant Phe-
nomena blowing fat trumpets into his whis-
kers.
Autumn and spring in this city generally
come in with a rush of picture-shows, to
back up the materialistic joys of new mil-
linery. Miss Ethel Stephens will hold an
exhibition of her personal efforts to get a
likeness in oil-painting, and reproduce the
glory of the flower garden, this week. Miss
Stephens’s studio, Kirketon-road, Darling-
hurst, will, therefore, hold art critics (a
much-abused species) and amateurs, friends,
acquaintances, etc., galore; for the Stephens
family, as old residents, know half the popu-
lation (more or less) of Sydney suburbs.
Sketches of Normandy peasant-life—the
aftermath of Miss Stephens’s recent scamper
across Europe—are to be included in the ex-
hibits.
Mrs. Ellis Rowan, whose flower paintings
are now on view in Aldenhoven’s gallery,
glided like a slim silhouette through an oc-
casional Easter festivity. She telils a quaint
story of a Queensland pitcher-plant, which
has an uncanny thirst on teetotal ilines. Says
Mrs. Rowan: “I was once sitting near the
edge of a stream in a northern Queensland
jungle, sketching the pitcher-plant, when I
thought it moved slightly. I watched it
closely, for the movement was almost im-
perceptible. Slowly—very slowly—it bent to-
wards the water’s edge, and gradually dipped
its pitcher-shaped leaf till it was full of
water. Then, with the same slow move-
ment, it regained its former upright position.
I was afraid to tell this incident to any but
my own intimate friends, for a long time,
because it sounded like a fairy tale. But
about two years afterwards, I read the ex-
perience of a South American naturalist
who saw the pitcher-plant do exactly the
same thing on the banks of a stream in
Brazil. After reading that, I felt I might
mention the water-drinking habits of the
pitcher-plant without being looked on as a
botanical visionary.”
It comes as a cold chill to the
better feelings of those who can only
chew the Coronation cud afar off, that
peers’ coronets are made of silver gilt.
This news trots in double harness with the
appalling statement that peeresses will be
entirely responsible for the good behavior
of their velvet robes at George’s June party.
These, and other bald facts connected with
the Royal anointing, snatch the veil of illu-
sion from the divinity that no longer hedges
kings. There is consolation in this thought.
Though peers’ head-pieces are only silver-
gilt, the King’s breeches are to be built of
pure silk, to match his illustrious stockings.
Wasn’t it Earl Spencer’s ancestor who
set the fashion in men]s “dicky-bird” coats,
by having his coat-Ails burnt off as he
warmed his back, in characteristic Cold-land
fashion, on the domestic hearth? This sim-
mers in my mind re the remarks Chamber-
lain Spencer is now hurling, at the hobble-
skirt, which he will not allow to be worn at
Court functions.
The recent O’Connor-Mort marriage has a
special interest to the digger in N.S.W.
pioneer lore. Morts, Laidleys and Harnetts
have taken a useful grip of the soil and
trade in this State since its earlier teething
troubles. Bodalla cheese revolves round
the enterprise of the dairying branch of the
Mort family. Merchandise rears a solid
front before the name of Laidley. Mrs. R.
E. O’Connor, the bridegroom’s mother, is
very tali and broad-chested. The under-
sized woman who gets alongside Mrs. u’Con-
nor at a crowded social corroboree, looks like
an ant negotiating a pyramid. Bride Nea
Mort was secretary to the Rose Bay Golf
Club, a golfer of note, and amazingly popu-
lar with her own sex—the highest certificate
of merit this world wots of.
To genial “Laurie” Harnett belongs the
primary credit of “discovering” Kosciusko as
a potential tourist resort. He incited pho-
tographer Kerry, in February, 1895, to climb
with him up Kosciusko’s bald old head,
plank down his camera, and, during a week’s
camp, photograph every available attrac-
tion. Mr. Kerry admits he was an easy
victim to the fascination of Snowy parts, as
he hailed from the Monaro tableland in the
days when Ryries, Harnetts, Cosgroves and
Campbells were pioneering in wool. “We
took with us,” ruminates the enthusiastic
Kerry, “as guide, Spencer, an old identity of
the Snowy. He used to range with cattle
round about the mountain in summer, and
knew every track. Mr. Harnett loved the
place, and saw its possibilities as a great
tourist resort when Sydney people just knew
it was somewhere on the N.S.W. map.”
From that small beginning, followed by a
Kerry camera descent on Kiandra, then an
isolated community in winter, has evolved
the snug tourist hotel at Kosciusko. This
building, according to the optimistic Hol-
man, is liable to feel new wings sprouting
at any moment.
Akin Higgins, who captains the wealthy
American, tourist team, now spreading their
golden wings for flight across this State,
turns out to be an Australian. Bill Wattle,
who gives me this news, says that Captain
Higgins was the first general-manager for
Cook and Son in Australia.
Mrs. South and Mrs. Smith, the silk-
worm ladies, who come from Queensland,*
are surrounded by inquiring hats. Says
Mrs. South: “The Queensland Government
has been very good to us. It advanced us
£5O, out of which it bought us a machine
costing £2O. This left us about £3O in
hand. It lent us the Tourist Bureau win-
dow in Brisbane to show our silk, and
in countless small ways was kind to us. All
this has been an immense help in getting
Queenslanders interested in work which
means good pocket money for women and
girls.”
Passing through Sydney this week are
Miss Mildred Manifold and brother Bertie,
of the woolly W. T. Manifold family of
Western Victoria. She and her brother are
just back from the land of the early-rising
Jap.
The woolly house of Goldsbrougli, Mort
and Co., the pioneers among Australian com-
panies which finance the budding squatter-
and sometimes also the squatter who is in
full bloom—said good-bye to its chief inspec-
tor the other day. W. E. Moore is sup-
posed to be personally acquainted with more
sheep, and to be on terms of intimacy with
more bullocks, station tanks and boundary
fences, than anybody else in N. S. Wales.
It is 20 years since he began to be the chief
guide, philosopher, etc., of the big firm’s
squatting clients; and a dinner at Paris
House, an address from the staff, and a bulky
cheque from the firm, with other toothsome
trifles, marked the cutting of the old ties.
The knowledgeable and popular man fastens
his own signboard up at Forbes.
Lord Dick Nevill will return to Australia
after the Coronation ceremonies with the
Melba Opera Company. He is a member of
the Opera Syndicate, as well as a personal
friend of Melba’s, and is expected to show
Australians how T grand opera is run, on the
social side, in Old World centres.
The “Francie” Josephs, whose only
daughter Beryl has just been made a Lady
of Jerusalem, or something which sounds
tremendous, were well known in Sydney 20
years ago. Fairwater, the Double Bay man-
sion which the J. O. Fairfaxes now inhabit,
was built by Mr. Joseph in the boom days.
For a decade or more he has been a stock-
broker in London. A sister is married to
Mr. Forbes Angus, of Sydney.
Miss Nona Hay, one of the pretty sisters
of Mrs. Philip Morton, was operated on for
appendicitis at Lewisham Hospital last week.
She is doing well.
Mrs. (Essie Jenyns) Wood) is taking a
hasty look-in at things Australian before
scampering back to her Cold Land moorings.
David Graham Phillips, the American
writer, met a tragic death at the hands of a
man who thought his sister had figured as
“Margaret” in “The Fashionable Adventures
of Joshua Craig.” Phillips dipped his pen
in gall on the feminist question. His last
novel, “The Husband’s Story,” is so bitter
in its denunciation of American women that
one New York critic almost wonders that
the fatal shot wasn’t fired by a woman. Says
Phillips: “The cruellest indictment of the
intellect of woman is the crude, archaic,
futile and unimaginative way in which is
carried on the part of life that is woman’s
peculiar work ... It may be that woman
will some day develop another and higher
sphere for herself. But first she would do
well to fill the sphere she now rattles round
in, like one dry pea in a. 10-gallon can.”
This is almost up to the standard of the
literary dead-cats that we met in that half-
forgotten screed, “Lovely Woman.”
As I close this letter, an unreliable rumor
comes along from the Maheno. It affirms
that Lady Dudley is booked as a passenger
for Auckland, and will have left Sydney be-
fore this reaches you. At date of writing,
this item falls with an unexpected thud. Is
this the inner circumstance which inspired
Lady Dudley’s melancholy note of farewell
when she opened the Girls’ Exhibition?
The Tom Hughes combination, now tour-
ing Europe, sends an informative line to a
friend. Rome, Florence, Buda Pesth and
Vienna form part of their descent into an-
cient history, combined with modern drain-
age. Buda Pesth and Vienna are accused
of being right up to next week in their pro-
gressive municipal schemes for beautifying
plain parts. In Vienna, Mrs. O’Gorman
Hughes joins the Tom Hughes’s personally-
conducted tour. When Mrs. Tom was
Mayoress of this city, her popularity stood
out as a monumental proof of the all-wool,
everlasting wear of “Tact-tact-tact.”
Yours, with a broad nib,
VANDORIAN.


asms*
mmmmmtm
mm
WWW
355
mm
>'.4- cX'O'iVi
.-•■ •
%'■ ; '>.«
■
sewa
r-;; : elfgai:SjSaiaBgjfe£
V AA'£*£>>7_
Ml
m
teasm
sip!
■ ;?•-•.-''
11
«*&
it's
IS
c&Sßfe&s
... i
3MP**a»
..;>-.rt-.
si-S
fts£
# V
vm
itfS' «
(fWI
attiwiww^si'
iimii
mAW. ViLatfk*
<r (
S li 5
f \
*1
H ■!>-.
/
\ «
rC
i.
A
X
A
x
X/\
X
iii ;
ni
fcfilii
L
mM
m
f\
7*s\/ T \
&» ‘V
?V m'mv 7px- :' v "' •'.-;
i 4 >:
.x-:
.* :.: • .• '-.1-,, v ..- ; •••' .•:.•
A?
z
: 'xAxexsA'
m/
■'x«x,
-:/x >:.dx.-x;;X:;.:.xx : : _.v V , .
■A/'
m
zv/m
r,V
wmm
:;■//■ i■'. ■■•:K'- ; : '■'
S£
? /
$
V- :/':•■ ..
•:-v •.
•*
r f IP'.
5#
x';-
COBRA, gfre Floor Polish, is as
good as COBRA, Boot Polish.
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
With his magic
Makes for you
And the baby,
Bright and clever,
Rivers where you
Row for ever.
Floating on a
Woolly mat
With the foxie
And the cat.
All aboard 1
Away we float
Down the river
In our boat 1


Progress must have its way. And perhaps
the result of the Referendum means that this
country refuses to be stampeded too furiously
even along the right track. Anyhow, if the
Referendum had been as to Progress’s wisest
way, there would have been a unanimous
Yes in favor of the wise way inspired by
that spirit of wisdom, D.C.L., the Whisky of
the Wise.*
I
h
*v
l.
DUNLOP
-KELLY
*TYRES
are Solid Rubber Tyres,
that do not coroe off,
being made of best Para
Rubber, they run for
years, ensuring you
comfortable driving
and freedom from
Coachbuilder’s Repairs.
Fitted from per pair.
Let us forward you our
Illustrated Price List.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO-.Melbeane.Sydbev.
Adelaide. Brisbane, Perth, and Christchurch.
Pays
to Ride —i
DUNLOP
TYRES
Owing to the Wear
and Satisfaction they
give.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS. NONE
GENUINE WITHOUT THIS W
§
MAKS
DUNLOP RUBBER CO„ All State* and NX
Dunlop Tyres
Ensure Easy *
Comfortable Riding.
ĥ
HAYWARD’S
Costumes § Riding Habits
are Known All Over Australia.
WRITE OR CALL FOR
CATALOGUE OF NEW FASHIONS.
323 George Street, Sydney Paling'!.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, Mat 1, 1911.
My Dear Yarrie, —
Sassiety women had never worked so hard at a
poll in their lives as they did before the Referen-
dum. Terror of some fearful social upheaval
drove them out; they had been told that hubby’s
best investments were at stake; and every motor
in Toorak and St. Kilda was spinning about
dragging votes along by the hair of the head. In
an ordinary election there are a few personal
friends of the candidates who can be roused to
serious work ; but the moneyed women were got
to believe that this shoe would pinch all of them.
Practically the last of Governor Carmichael’s
rovings in the country took him to the well-to-do
woolly country round about Mansfield. Mrs.
Bon, of Bonnie Doon, the widow of one of the
earliest squatters in the district, was hostess-in-
chief. The Bons arrived on the scene when the
aboriginals were numerous and the air was full of
boomerangs. Mrs. Bon has been a battler for the
rights of our dispossessed black brother for many
years, and is the only woman on the Board that
is supposed to protect the aborigines. She was a
friend of the late King Barak, a really noble
savage and chief of the Yarra tribe, whose domain
extended from the city curve of Melbourne’s over-
worked river to beyond Heidelberg. Melbourne
stands in the centre of dead-and-gone Barak’s
kingdom ; yet in all the statue-studded city there
is no graven image of the old monarch. Barak
had one son called David ; but David died while
still a child, and the succession petered out.
His Ex. Carmichael, while at Bonnie Doon,
visited the Presbyterian church built by Mrs. Bon
wherein are carefully preserved some furnishings
which represent local church history. Some years
ago in Melbourne, tho St. Vincent’s Convent
nuns bought the piece of land on Eastern Hill
opposite the Government Printing Office where
stood the first Presbyterian church. The edifice
contained a richly-carved pulpit from which the
first Presbyterian minister in Melbourne had
preached. On the sale of the property, the Mother
Superior of St. Vincent’s generously presented tho
whole of the valuable furnishings, pulpit and
pews to the kindly old colonist. Mrs. Bon
carried the treasure off to her own corner of the
State, and placed them in the church she had had
built. The building was just completed when
Queen Victoria died, and the first religious
ceremony held there was a memorial service.
At the City of Melbourne stall in the Alfred
Hospital Bazaar, Mayoress Davey has bagged a
fine lot of feathers for the undoing of the buyer.
Amy Castles put on her most fascinating frock,
and sold things on Saturday ; she made an excel-
lent auctioneer. On Thursday afternoon Arca-
dians helped the sale. Miss Gilliam, and
Miss Cavanagh, and Miss O’Connor, and
Charlie Stone beat up the buyers. Mrs.
Brennan was also helped by Miss Gilliam
and other Arcadians at a musical tea-party of
crushing social tonnage. The affair was so big
that it was driven even unto the upper-upper
room of the Vienna. A platform raised
in the big bay windows held the minstrels.
Miss Winifred O’Connor “regretted”—had a
“ throat ” —and her understudy, bright Irish-
Maorilander Florence Quinn, sang instead. Ger-
trude Gilliam chirped through song and dance
with Charlie Stone, and Miss Cavanagh sang
drolleries.
A child at the piano made even Sassiety tea-
drinkers stop chattering at this party. Fedora,
the daughter of Senator St. Ledger, it was—a
child with a beautiful face and an artistic brain.
The April soiree of the Alliance Frangaise was
distinguished by the farewell visit of the Car-
michael lady and the presentation of the decora-
tions conferred upon Mrs. Gay and Mrs. Aarons.
In the absence of the French Consul, John
Madden conferred the ribbons and threw the
appropriate flowers at their feet. Mrs. Gay wore
an apricot-colored gown, and Mrs. Aarons was in
all white. The French decoration consists of a
little bow of purple ribbon about the size of a
thumb-nail, such as distinguished military men
wear on their coat lapels. A large parchment
roll tied with tricolor ribbon accompanies each
bow; but you are not supposed to wear the
parchment, though if run over by a sufficient
number of carts it would make a very fashion-
able hat. The Alliance presented each
lady with two curved silver palm-leaves set
in diamonds. Mrs. Masseran, in a brilliant black
dress, received Lady Carmichael, who wore a
lovely blue and silver cloud, and had niece Ena
with her in a purple cloak. Captain Vaux was in
attendance; but his Ex was unable to attend,
and Mrs. Madden was too ill to be present.
Music and the French drama enlivened the pro-
ceedings, as usual ; and after coffee and cakes, the
guests strolled out to see how the Referenda
voting boards were behaving.
An adjacent man mentioned that he had seen
the little bow conferred on the Emperor of Brazil;
whereupon I immediately demanded further par-
ticulars. It appears that Brazil had an Emperor
about 16 years ago who was not particularly
interested in his job. He was a keen student and
a great scientist, and when people called round on
business he was generally shut up in his labora-
tory watching an experiment. He found his
herd of subjects rather a bore; so, although
he was a lovable monarch, the nation decided
to become a republic. The Emperor was
given a gentle hint, and his attaches conducted
him quietly to Paris. Then the harmless revolu-
tion was started, and concluded without anyone
being hurt. His Majesty contentedly set-to in
Paris to hunt among the archives and spend his
time in the way he liked best; and incidentally
he was rewarded with the little purple bow. It
is an interesting story, which sets one musing on
the advantage or otherwise of being bossed by
hereditary monarchs. Our own royalties and all
their relations are so smothered in butter and for-
a-good-child stories that their humanity is quite
lost. How many of them are like his Majesty of
Brazil, whose position was all the more tolerable
because his ex-subjects made him a handsome
annual allowance ?
Some fortunate friends of mine possess an aged
female retainer who has grafted herself on to the
family tree, and would rather die than give
notice. She is handier with the broom than
the pen ; so when the census papers came along,
the head of the house had to fill in her card. He
left the age line till the very last, then asked in an
apologetic way how many years he should put
down. “Oh, anything over 30,” said the coy
maid of antiquity.
Examples of the art of Charlie Wheeler are
now enjoying the air at Melbourne Guild Hall.
The canvases are mostly of a minor character,
but two or three are the more definite expressions
of a larger energy. Of those particular efforts
one prefers the study of a sweet-looking wonian
at a toilet table. The work is charming, for it is
such a triumph in stage-managed effects. Even
a sort of lamp upon the table seems a self-
conscious “super ”in the tout ensemble. Others
of Wheeler’s bigger items are just as accurately
plotted and arranged. What arrests one strongly
is his taste for the mirror as a pictorial aid. In three
or four works he poses a female before a “glass,”
and paints her reflection to make her feel she is
among relations. In one boudoir study he poses a
girlish nude, and holds the mirror up to Nature
without advertising the latter to any extent. In
another he leaves an elderly lady playing with a
bowl of flowers, no doubt to keep her mind
from brooding on the color in her dress. Also, he
displays pencil drawings, bits of pastel, and
about a mile of landscape paintings. The last
include pieces of the Yarra seen through a dirty
morning or clearer noon ; slices of the country
bashfully hiding in the painter’s atmosphere ; and
a couple of things wherein the artist tries to secure
an effect of frivolity with some nocturnal haze
and paper lanterns.
By the time this letter is in type Alice-sit-by-
the-fire will have left her cosy lounge and retired.
The Melbourne University Dramatic Club selected
J. M. Barrie’s quaintly-named “Page from a
Girl’s Diary,” in three acts, for its second public
performance at the Turn Verein Hall. Professor
Masson, who is a personal friend of Barrie’s,
called on the author during a recent visit to the
Cold Country, and, seeing the MS., secured his
permission to produce the play here. He had to
take a solemn vow that it would be carefully
guarded and promptly returned. Barrie, by the
way, will not allow his plays to be published.
Ellen Terry was the original Alice ; and our Mrs.
Brough would suit the part admirably.
The wedding of Dr. Gerald Sheahan and
Dorothy, daughter of Micky Dawson, of Sher-
wood Park, Warrnambool, drew a joyous train of
guests to St. Pat’s Cathedral. The very young
bride—she is not yet 18 —made her bridegroom, a
young man on the other side of 30, look quite
aged. Lawyer Tom Nolan, who has been best
man to no less than 14 bridegrooms, helped con-
siderably in the management of the function, as
Fred Sheahan, the brother of the bridegroom and
holder of the responsible post, was a novice at the
business. The one bridesmaid was Dr. Sheahan’s
sister Tot, and three small Dawson nieces carried
the billowy train. From the cathedral the party
fled across the city to Menzies’, where the break-
fast waited. Next day the pair left by the Morea
for a round-the-world honeymoon.
A fashionably-squashy velvet hat has been
showing above a familiar bright face. Amy
Castles has just arrived in Melbourne. She is
resting after a long tour—that is to say, she is
hard at work on opera study. And all through
her Maoriland campaign she has been working
away at Italian and German and other wild
beasts.
Rupert Clarke and his new bride, when last
heard* of, had looked at Monte Carlo and Nice ;
and both places had retaliated by looking admir-
ingly at the lady’s dazzling costumes.
The wedding of Harry Musgrove, nephew of
George, to Mrs. Prytz, happened last Wednesday,
The young widow, who is a granddaughter of
Captain Rowan, of Brighton, was Lyn Hills prior
to her first tragically brief marriage. Mr. and
Mrs. Musgrove have gone to Sydney, where they
are to live.
On Thursday, Ethel Henderson, the physical
culturist, said “ I will ” when she was asked if
she would have Ronald Buchan, son of Collins-
street auctioneer John Buchan. The bride took
up the foils relinquished by Mrs. Hargreaves
when that lady deserted the gym. for matrimony.
Now there is a chance for another woman to don
the fetching costume of the fencing mistress.
The latest girl to exhibit an engagement half-
hoop of diamonds is Jane Webb, daughter of the
fine old doctor who spent his life hunting for a
cancer cure. She will marry Ernest Pohlman, a
Toorak young man, a few weeks hence.
The Chester Manifolds are going to give a
gorgeous ball at Warrnambool to celebrate the
first official plunge into Society of their daughter,
fair-haired Marian.
The wedding happened last Monday week, and
the church was smothered for the occasion in
daisies. Bert Burton was the happy man who
claimed the white-clad and daisy-crowned bride.
Two bridesmaids, with red-brown hair, wore white
gowns that shaded into autumn tints at the foot.
The clergyman, tired apparently of the conven-
tional blessing, loudly wished them both “ Good
luck, in the name of the Lord.” Mrs. Burton
departed for the honeymoon in a green coat and
skirt, with a dream of a green feather blowing
from her black velvet hat, and a fine muffling of
black fox furs.
Willie Kelly, who had one of the first cars in
the early days of motoring, is bent on being the
first Australian amateur airman. To this end he
has ordered a machine with which to go through
our air pockets and pursue the astonished eagle.
A line from London tells me that that vilely-
treated young Australian, Ella Caspers, is getting
back to her old place in the musical swim, and
lately has been chief vocalist at various Society
“At Homes.” When the last mail left she was
singing before Princess Louise of Schleswig-
Holstein, the Duke of Norfolk, Countess of Radnor,
and other people whose names are “ on the door ”
of the upper circle.
A lovable woman who will be mourned by many
died last week at the age of 85. Elizabeth Cham-
pion had seen Melbourne grow up, and, as a sort
of right,' she mothered all its inhabitants who
•came within her sphere. Her sons are well-known
professional and business men in Melbourne and
Ballarat, and the baby of the family, Floss
Champion, is one of our prettiest girls.
Henry Bracy, at Her Majesty’s, is engaged in
the nerve-shattering business of trying voices for
the Melba grand opera season. In his search for
a champion chorus, the experienced stage-general
finds about six suitable singers per day. And he
tries scores! Needless to add, they all try him.
The Swastika Club has evolved a literary
circle, which sits round once a month and dis-
cusses some author. Last Thursday clanged with
Kipling. During an unexpected interval, caused
by the late arrival of a Personage, Mrs. Vice-
President Moore showed unsuspected talent in
recitation, and kept the ring or combine from
becoming , bored. Later on, librarian De Soir
read a paper, and Maud Grantham sang a Kipling
song and spoke a piece. Tea was served in the
brown yoom. Widow Staughton rested gracefully
after her energetic campaigning in the sacred—or
scared —cause of No-No. The Wrixon lady
beamed amiably through the inevitable political
talk. Mrs. Squatter Davidson spread a special
table for her guests. Mrs. Watson, of Queens-
land, who was until recently Mrs. Fisher, and
Florence Quinn, the blue-eyed Maorilander who
is understudying Miss O’Connor, were among the
visiting group. Mrs. Gregory, looking impressive
in a full cape of ermine, arrived with Mrs. Barag-
wanath, thrice Mayoress of South Melbourne.
Thursday’s function was the second meeting of the
literary Swastikas. The first discussion was
dedicated to Burns, and you were expected to
come armed with a quotation even if your name
didn’t begin with Mac, M’ or Me.
Another literary society, called the X Rays, gave
a unique send-off, the other day, to one of its
members who is deserting to get married. Daisy
Price was the offender, and her sisters-in-literature
presented her with a classical fairy tale, ex-
quisitely illustrated. The joyous gathering took
the form of a fancy-dress frivol, for which the
guests were sworn not to spend more than six-
pence-ha’penny on a costume. Some managed
with hobble skirts constructed of butter muslin at
2|d. per yard, double-width; and I hear that
there were Pasha confections made of crinkly
paper. One man bought a bundle of old maga-
zines for sixpence and combined them with the
previous day’s paper. However, the committee
counted him out because of the expense of the
gum.
The marine At Home on the new Aberdeen
boat Themistocles promised to be a great success;
but Neptune—who was not invited—brewed, a
gale, which delayed the steamer’s arrival, and
postponement cards had to be sent flying to all
points of the compass. The ship 3teamed up the
bay only a few hours before the time fixed for the
revel; and, having only just concluded its fierce
argument with the sea, was not in a suitable frame
of mind to entertain visitors.
“The Merry Widow,” now nearing the end of
her widowhood at Her Majesty’s, is drawing the
crowd despite Higginson’s absence from the
cast. Florence Young, as Sonia, wears a poem of
a frock: it is of dull white crepe v and clings
closely to her fine figure ; crystal embroideries
give the right finishing touch. Although the
company is complaining of colds, no huskiness is
noticeable on the critic’s side of the footlights.
The Widow has been gyrating since 1908, and
will have something like 500 performances in
Australia and Maoriland to her credit by the end
of the present Melbourne run. There can be no
doubt about the value of treacly music after this.
A gaily twinkling star at present shining in
Melbourne Sassiety is the daughter of Chief
Justice Parker, of Westralia. She came with
father on a short visit to Melbourne, but liked it
so much that she demanded more; and now her
bonneting is compelling the Block to turn its head
to have another look. The pretty Westralian
Dolly is being mothered by one or tWo care-
fully-selected Toorak matrons.
' The Harry De Littles, lately mentioned as of
Caramut, have taken Ottington, the St. Kilda-
road mansion once tenanted by the king of bridge
players, Baron Hedestrom.
Staniforth Smith, lately resurrected from
Papuan deserts, evidently places faith in the good
old motto, “Better late than never?’ He has
just sent his friends belated Christmas wishes on
cards which had been printed before the sender
was advertised for in the lost-or-swallowed column,
Staniforth's father, who still lives in Victoria,
was naturally among those who got the overdue
good-wishes.
The Loretto Convent, at Albert Park, which has
“finished ” so many Melbourne girls, is thinking
of organising a Past Pupils’ Association. The
big public schools have their Old Boys’ reunions ;
but you don’t catch the other sex having gather-
ings of Old Girls. If they manage to get toge-
ther, it will be as Past Pupils—which is a
non-committal way of putting it. A meeting to
discuss the project iff to be held at the convent on
Sunday afternoon, May 14.
Florence Challis, singer of the historic “Old
Bull and Bush,” now selling “Sweet Lavender”
at Melbourne Opera House, has a pair of beauti-
ful feet, and is therefore fully justified in singing
a barefooted song. The management consider-
ately lays down a few yards of carpet for the
item. Florence used to fling sprays of lavender
to the audience ; but in this part of the world the
real stuff is too expensive to throw away over the
footlights. The present trip is a final pick-me-up
after a serious illness, and for that reason
she restricts herself to songs which do not require
much action. Some of her dresses are dazzling,
notably the Court Presentation gown, in which
she endeavors to rouse enthusiasm for George
No. 5. In private life Miss Challis is Mrs. Reed.
The husband is secretary at the Palladium, the
luxurious London theatre which was opened at
the end of last year.
From my Adelaide correspondent:—
The Dandies made their last bow of the season on
Saturday night. The audience was huge and vociferous,
and manager Dampier was dragged on by Loud Cheers to
say good-bye for the co. His pretty wife is slowly toiling
up the rocky path of convalescence. She’s been sadly
missed by patrons of the show.
Mrs. Powis Stewart is determined to teach us our Bard.
Under her influence the Shakspeare Theatre is distinctly
moving. T’other night Rabbi Boas lectured there con-
cerning the Bard’s views on marriage, and his learned
remarks were followed next night by an abridged version
of “Romeo and Juliet.”
We’re indulging in a perfect orgy of racing. Tatter-
sail’s occurred last Saturday, and once more the weather
authorities smiled. Result —a record crowd, in its new
autumn clothes, despite the fact that the air smacked
more of summer than of winter. We take new fashions
slowly here ; but we take them (or a caricature of them)
in the end. On Saturday quite a number of women moved
slowly and with difficulty in the garments which have
been warned off the Social course at ’Ome. Some tren-
chant male comments were almost justifiable.
The “ season’s” really come. Cards are out for tea and
gossip on the Government House lawns on May 9, and a
couple of smart “charity” balls are well under weigh.
The Empire Ball (whose proceeds are to further mis-
Sionise seamen) is billed for the barn-like Exhibition
Building on May 30, and it should be a gorgeous show.
Each set is to represent some division of the Empire,
and the air is thick with discussions of color schemes,
decorative effect and the rest. Usually in these sets man
is the stumbling block, for he arrays himself in up-to-
date evening clothes, to dance with Crusade ladies, and
can’t be brought to see that he looks more than ever like
a waiter.
There is much marrying and giving in marriage in
this village at present. The Verco-Mills wedding was a
quiet affair ; the bridegroom was Dr. Joseph Verco, who
leads the profession here. His friends had never contem-
plated his doing anything so frivolous, and his engage-
ment came as a big surprise.
There has been many a wet eye at the Children’s Hospital,
Usually May-day is given special celebration there, and
all who can go along with a gift of some sort—anythin!?
from a ha’porth of sweets to a side of beef. This year"
owing to some epidemic, the authorities, plagiarising
the absent Wallington, murmured “ Better not.” It’s a
pity, because the place does excellent work, and deserves
all the help it can get.
On Tuesday Australia’s present to H.M.S. Common-
wealth was unveiled in the Mayor’s parlor. To Mrs. ’Siah
Symon is due whatever credit there is in the small idea,
and she did most of the hard work also of executing it.’
The lady does better service as presiding genius of the
Poetry League ; in that capacity she has done much to
help on promising amateurs, and (a no less necessary
thing) to deal gently but firmly with those who’d be
obviously better employed in darning socks than wasting
good paper.
Sunday picture people are jubilant. The usual “ tech-
nical flaw” enables them to continue their godless prac-
tice of exhibiting Biblical pictures on Sunday nights—for
the present. What’ll happen when Parliament meets re-
mains to be seen, for Premier Verran is a local preacher
and has our morals at heart. It seems an open question
which is the greater evil—for damsels of 16 to parade the
streets and loiter in the squares, or for them to sit and
look at moving pictures of Moses crawling out of the
bulrushes.
Sincerely yours,
JOHANNA.


ymi
&
-r
.......
wt
mmmm
%
•*»m*«m*m* **3 ',*>■ <4bL
W*
m
As
a
. n
0
■
%
:D
r
' : -
mart-o
3
'* •&
%4 I
It 4
.
if
8
2>«i
'"“****”*
> ««***
m
«-*r
i/
M
*-r
MUi
K&j
Vi
V*
'
A
mm
mI
s.*. r •
«miN
MMK
*«s*»*»
r * rv'<*r* : !r''*U'
ħ
h
BY B.A.


Laxo-Tonic Pills
Are a safe and certain remedy for biliousness,
constipation, liver troubles, flatulence, ansemia,
etc. Sold at 10jd. and Is. 6d.*
DOCTORS BAFFLED.
All aged people should read this remarkable
leter from Mrs. Patience Thomas, of Belmont
Road, Geelong, Vic. “Last winter I got a fright-
ful cold on the lungs, and, being 81 years of age,
the doctors refused to prescribe for me, saying
that at my age medicine would be dangerous ; but,
knowing that Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy bears
the Goverinent analysis showing that it contains
no poisons or narcotics. I tried it; and three
bottles were the means of giving me back my
natural health. lam so old now that I cannot use
my pen, so am getting my neiee, Mrs. E. Wylie,
to sign this.”*
ONCE AGAIN TOE
TONIC T
Another Severe Case of In-
digestion Cured,
Again the tonic treatment has been suc-
cessful in curing severe indigestion. Mrs.
E. Smith, of Stagpole Street, West End,
Townsville, reports that she has recovered
from a bad attack of Indigestion. The tonic
treatment is surely the simplest and sanest
for the complaint. Indigestion occurs when
the stomach becomes too weak to digest food
and the tonic treatment aims at restoring
strength to the digestive organs. In all the
cases where the newspapers have recorded
remarkable cures of Indigestion the to^ lc
taken has been Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills.
They have been found to have excellent re-
sults in even the severest cases, as this cure
shows: —
“I enjoyed good health till about two
years since, when I began to suffer from In-
digestion,” said Mrs. Smith. “I suffered
much from acid and flatulence and pain in
the stomach, especially after eating. I felt
a great oppression about my heart. I telt
much difficulty in breathing, especially when
lying down, and frequently had to get up
out of bed and go outside so as to catch my
breath. I felt a great weight at the pit of
my stomach. I gradually lost my appetite
and became very thin. I had a smothering
feeling about my heart, and my stomach used
to swell to a great extent at times. I„ use “
to feel quite giddy in my head, and I suffered
much from want of sleep. No matter what
kind of food I ate it alwavs disagreed with
me. I had been suffering agonies for about
twelve months when I read a testimonial in
the Townsville Bulletin of a cure per-
formed by Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills. Phe
case described was very much like my own,
so I decided on giving them a trial and
bought a box and started taking them, one
after each meal. The first box did not do
me much good, but during the time I was
taking the second box I found a wonderful
improvement. I continued the use of Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills till I found myself thor-
oughly restored to good health again. lam
now as strong and healthy as I ever was,
and attribute my cure solely to the use ot
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills.
Dr Williams’ Pink Pills are 2s. 9d. a box,
6 boxes 15s. 3d., of all dealers, or from The
Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co. of Australasia
Ltd., Sydney.
MptSre
ar%
denyer
©
Single 17/6 ;
Double 22/6
Call or write.
D eny er ’s
Special Elas-
tic Truss
wears long-
est and most
satisfactor-
ily. Cool,
C o m fort-
able; no
chafing.
We fit you
exactly.
SENYER BROS.,
Makers of Trusses and
Abdominal Belts,
"81 GEORGE ST. (opp. Hunter St.), SYDNEY ;
and at. Melbourne, cr. of Swanston & Lonsdale Sts. _
POLITICAL
POINTS
Now, more than ever, the prayer of the true
Laborite is shortened to “Give us this day our
daily.”
Said Sydney Evening News the day after
the taking of the Referenda
The “Noes” won yesterday by a most gratifying
majority, and with them triumphed the cause of Demo-
cracy.
The fat little journal means £ S. Democracy !
After all, there are some compensations in
the victory of the “No-Noes.” We won’t have to
hang Bruce Smith now as a revolutionary. It
would have been a shocking loss to have had to
hang Bruce Smith. He makes such a beautiful
Norman Lindsay bear.
The S. Australian “ Liberal ” Union was
quite frank about it. Its President, Yardon, was
cn route to England when the Referenda vote was
taken, and to him wired the executive :
Noes lead Australia by hundred thousand.
It put the position exactly : Noes 1, Australia 2.
THE PARTNERS.
Mr. Holman’s speech is the vindication of the
Liberals. So far from holding up his hands in holy
horror at our alleged extravagance, his party has
already increased the loan expenditure for this year
to the highest on record for this State. — Ex-Premier
Wade, on Holman’s Policy Speech.
N. S. Wales Works Minister Griffith, who
is full of ideas, has been poking into the Backblocks
lately, and has scarcely been able to move half a
mile without being asked for a railway. As the
State can’t build half the lines that are wanted,
Griffith has hatched a scheme for giving settlers
railway rebates in proportion to the road-haulage
they have to do to reach a station—lo miles, 5 per
cent. ;20 miles, 10 per cent., and so on. It is a
well-meaning scheme; but what this country
wants is not so much to get settlers to crawl back
25 or 50 miles from the railways as to make the
people who hold land right alongside railways put
it to fuller use. That 25-mile haulage, to a rail-
way station is a horrible waste, whether a man
pays for it himself or gets the State to pay for it.
Hamilton Wickes, who was the Board of
Trade Commissioner to Australia, has lectured
the Australian Chamber of Commerce in London,
the fussy body which spends its time, when it has
any time, decrying Australian Protective duties
and land legislation. Wickes laid much stress on
a statement that the Germans have annexed the
export trade in metal ores from Australia, and
have squeezed British merchants out almost
entirely. The figures were: Exports of ore to
Germany and Belgium in 1909, £1,065,682; to
United Kingdom, £38,946. Whereupon Wickes
almost whispered: “Wake up; you're losing
business.” But while it was Wickes’s job to
whisper the warning into J. Bull’s ear, it ought
to be somebodv’s job to shout it into Austra-
lia’s Whether the ore goes to Belgium or Britain
it goes out of Australia, and it is about time Aus-
tralia if it supplies the world with metal, re-
tired also to be allowed to supply it with the
labor. Just at present it is merely helping to
build up a nation that sooner or later may hit it
behind the ear with its own hardware.
Summary of Chinese produce in manifest
of steamer lately arrived at London :
5141 carcases frozen pigs, 9414 cases frozen produce,
150 cases grease, 28 cases vegetable oil, 1098 casks lard,
200 tons salmon.
John Bull gets his tucker out of queer pantries
now that his own lands are largely turned into
golf links and “game ” butcheries.
What is sauce for the goose is not sauce
for the gander. At the very moment the Sydney
papers were soundly rating Attorney-General
Hughes for breaking the City Council’s by-laws
by speaking in Moore-street and blocking the
traffic, they were smashing the same law (as they
do every election) by erecting election hoardings.
Hughes may have been wise or foolish ; but, any-
way, he didn’t block traffic to one-tenth the
extent that the hypocritical Herald and the
Telegraph did.
One of the amusing features of the llefer-
enda vote was the triumphant heading :
MELBOURNE DOMINATION REFUSED!
This appeared in one of the narrow-minded
little Sydney papers the morning the result was
announced. As a simple matter of figures, the
Victorian negative vote was the largest in the
Commonwealth ! Hence, according to the Syd-
ney howling dervish, “Melbourne,” instead of
struggling and scheming for “ domination,” re-
fused “domination ” to itself !
Said the S. M. Herald during the Refer-
enda campaign :
Federation has taught us to think as a continent. It
has broadened our old provincial views, and though
these die hard, especially with the older generations,
there is growing up a distinctly Australian sentiment in
place of the former colonial view.
Apparently the Herald is now a humorous pro-
duction. Anyway, it was in the recent contest
the chief defender of the narrowest of provincial
creeds ; and it never had one continental thought
in its leading columns, nor cared, apparently, one
continental curse for Australian sentiment.
The Argus burst out into a beautiful
scheme the other day. First of all it discovered
that the State electorate of Essendon now con-
tains 18,211 voters, Collingwood 13,526, and Carlton
13,183, while Castlemaine has 7163 and Korong
only 6656; and, as it reckoned that a redistribu-
tion of seats was coming, it got in early with the
announcement that, no matter how the population
stood, the new scheme would provide the country
with 40 seats and the metropolis with 20. This
would mean that every man in the country would
make a noise in Parliament about four times
louder than the city man. Further boiled down,
it signifies that the big landlord, having mostly
proved a curse, should be rewarded for being a
curse with special Parliamentary concessions.
Even with the Weary-Watt Government in
power, that cock won’t fight.
Premier Weary’s locum tenens, Treasurer
Willie Watt, saw that the gun was loaded, and
climbed down from his refusal to gazette the
determination of the Carters and Drivers’ Wages
Board. Acting on the advice of Chief Factories
Inspector Murphy, Watt declared certain of the
Board’s findings ultra vires. The Board, how-
ever, refused to amend them; it said . that
neither Watt nor his inspector had any locus
standi, and if it was wrong there was the Supreme
Court to go to. Whereupon Watt persuaded it
to “ alter the phraseology ” of some of its findings,
and promised an amending Factories Act next
session to legalise others. So the recent difficulty
is smoothed over, though the episode again
instances the growing tendency of State Insects
to arrogate powers that belong, or should belong,
solely to the properly appointed Courts.
“ W.R.W.,” on a prophet:—
“S.S.”(B. 27/4/’ll) asserts that “Australian Socialists
have all taken Nietzsche to their bosoms, and quote the
‘inspired German’ exuberantly.” As the writer of the
article on “Nietzsche and Jesus ’’(lnternational
Socialist, April 8), let me say that I don’t take Nietzsche
to my bosom, and I don’t know any Australian Socialist
who does. We repudiate him with the Duke of Argyle
and the Rev. Malthus. In the article, which “S.S.” has
evidently misread, I gave an impartial outline of
Nietzsche’s views, stated his opposition to Socialism, and
then said : “ Briefly, it may be said that the argument
against Socialism fails, because Socialism is not based on
sentiment. It is based on justice, and Socialists claim
that no system can stand the test of time which is not
based on justice.” I concluded by saying : “Socialism,
based as it is upon absolute justice, must in the end
triumph over both Christianity and Nietzscheism,”mean-
ing thereby, as I had attempted to show, that Chris-
tianity and Nietzscheism are both based on injustice, and
are hence anti-Socialistic. “ S.S.” says: “ Nietzsche was,
. indeed, a greater Anti-Sosh than George Reid, and I won-
der at the Socialists’ delight in him.” We, on our side,
wonder where such “delight” exists outside the fertile
imagination of “ S.S.”
State Frights seems a permanent disease
now in N. S. Wales. It began with Carruthers,
whose mission was to worry the Commonwealth
Government, snarl at it and bite it from behind.
When he saw a chance of an electioneering coup
he seized some wire-netting out of bond and
defied the Commonwealth. Instead of having
Carruthers dragged up at the Water Police Court
and fined five bob or the rising of the Court, and
ordered to pay for the constable’s uniform, the
Federal Government took the matter tragically
and sent it to the higher Courts, where Carru-
thers had his ears pulled at great expense. Then
Wade succeeded, and, being a mere monkey-
imitator of Carruthers, he went on the pin-
pricking policy, being backed up therein by the
daily press of Sydney. The precedent was estab-
lished that, in order to be a N.S.W. statesman,
you had to be chipping at the Commonwealth in
a hostile way all the time. Then came the
MacGowlman Ministry, which, for want of ideas
of its own, imitated the tactics of the Carruthers-
Wade crowd, and when it had a chance to do
mischief to the Commonwealth, did it out of the
habit that N.S.W. States-men have got into.
The other morning the Crookwell Potato
Co. (N.S.W.) wept into the Sydney papers
because it had lately been “ receiving potatoes at
.Redfern that had been eight days on the way
from Crookwell ”; and in its blind agony the
potato co. got its stupidest tuber to produce this
moan: —
If this is the best we can expect from departmentalised
State control, goodness only knows what things will be
like when the Commonwealth takes over the contract of
controlling ; the whole lot, that is, if such a calamity
should ever happen.
A less stupid spud would know what things
might be like, anyhow. For instance, the Crook-
well potatoes took 200 hours to travel 172 miles
because a vast quantity of other goods are dragged
unnecessarily over the same line, and a vast
quantity more goods are dragged unnecessary
distances over other lines, and all because the
State railways are run, in the first place, in the
interests of Sydney. If Australia controlled the
railway business, the railways would be run in the
interests of the users, and goods wouldn’t be
hauled unnecessary hundreds of miles so that one
bloated city might have a peck at them. And
that would abolish the congestion and the short-
age of railway stock, which pinched the Crook-
well Potato Co. and led it to make a fool of itself
in print.
Before the Referenda vote was taken, the
daily papers once every 24 hours told the man
who usually votes Labor that of course this wasn u
a party matter —lie could be quite sure of that
from the fact that both McGowen and Holman
were against the proposals. After the vote was
taken the same papers had the gall to ask what
the Labor party was going to do about its defeat
—which ought to be enough to open the eyes of
the Labor No-ers to the fact that a confidence
trick was played on them.
THE RIGHT STAGE AT LAST.
THE ORIGINAL SAIREY: "Ullo , ’ullo, Betsy
Age! You beginnin’ t' see ‘cm TOO, eh?"
The Referendum verdict has been given,
the railways remain wholly under State control,
and by all the rules Private Enterprise should be
perfectly happy. It isn’t, though. Two days
after the vote this message from Lithgow
(N.S.W.) got into the Sydney D.T. :
It is reported that the electrolytic works of the Great
Cobar, Ltd., are to close down, as the Railway Depart-
ment refuses to grant the concession on the carriage of
copper from Cobar to Lithgow. It is stated that the
same rate is charged to Lithgow as to Sydney.
To take the copper to Sydney means dragging it
95 miles further ; but it is part of Ma’s creed that
things ought to go to Sydney, and if they refuse
to go to Sydney they don’t deserve any considera-
tion. Johnson already has the weevily wheat of
Southern Riverina on his mind ; the potato people
say it takes eight days to rail Murphy and his
missus 200 miles ; and now there is this copper
trouble. If large concerns threaten to shut up
because of Ma’s remarkable system of rates, the
No-Noes may begin to wonder if the Common-
wealth could possibly run things worse.
As illustrating how poisonously the Syd-
ney daily press colors its news records with its
political prejudices, quote this from the S. M.
Herald (22/4/’ll) :
MINERS WON’T WASTE MONEY.
Newcastle, Thursday. —At to-day’s meeting of the
delegate Board of the' Colliery Employees’ Federation
an appeal for funds to assist in the referendum campaign
was received from the Sydney Labor Council. The
Board decided to decline with regret, as they had no
money to spend in this direction.
The Herald knows well—-nobody knows better—
the poverty, individual and corporate, of the
Newcastle miners of to-day. Yet, despite this,
and despite the fact that it is plainly sqt forth in
the telegram that the Miners’ Board declined
“ with regret,” the Herald says in big letters—
“MlNEßS WON’T WASTE MONEY,”
thus insinuating, in a way to catch the readers
eye, that it is not the workers’ poverty, but their
will, which forbids a contribution. No wonder
money is being hoarded up for a Labor daily.
Interesting, now that the dust has cleared,
to examine some of the projectiles hurled by the
Liberal dailies in the last frenzied hours before
the taking of the Referenda vote. Here is one of
Sydney Telegraph’s :
The N.S.W. Labor Ministry also means to increase the
expenditure; the South Australian Labor Ministry has
already done so. These Ministries have no knowledge of
economy. To spend wholesale they consider is to bid
or popularity. The COST OF LIVING is going steadily
un and must go higher, and they will make Aus-
tralia THE DEAREST COUNTRY IN THE WORLD TO
LIVE IN, AS WELL AS THE MOST HEAVILY TAXED.
Then, instead of urging people to vote to remove
some of the power from these Governments which
“ have no knowledge of economy,” the Liberal
press fought to retain for them all their dreadful
capacity for evil—and it succeeded. Blue ruin
should therefore now be imminent. The cost,of
living should go up like an aeroplane ; and an
avalanche of taxes may be expected any minute.
If these things happen, it will have to be remem-
bered that the “Liberal ’’ press conspired to bring
them about. If they don ’.t,,the “Liberal” press,
will have been proved once more to be a false
prophet and unworthy of attention.
There is no satisfying the Australian Fat-
man any way. Awhile back he was girding at
Labor for seeking power without responsibility,
and he gibed at Deakin for granting its demands
with: “Yes, Mr. Watson.” Now, having got
power. Labor asked for responsibility, and the
Fatman lied his hardest to stop it from getting
what it was prepared and anxious to accept.
Norman Bayles, M.L.A. for Toorak
(Vic.), has given up hope of ever be-
coming Premier. It was the Re-
ferenda campaign that did it. A
night or two before the voting, a
common gardener person attended a
meeting at which Norman was the
oratorical star. Norman had been
talking lovingly about Wages Boards,
and their impending “destruction ” if
the Referendum proposals were
passed ; whereupon the gardener per-
son spoke up and said: “I’m a
gardener. We’ve been trying to get
a Wages Board for a long time, and
we can't. How’d you advise me to
vote at the Referendum, so as to get
a Wages Board ? ” There was a
death-like silence on the part of the
chief orator, the while he rummaged
for a reply—any old sort of reply.
At last: “ Oh, I dunno !” he groaned
and subsided. It would be too much
of a horrible bore altogether to be
Premier in a country where gardener-
persons put horrid questions like
that.
N. S. W. Minister Griffith
started his State brickworks the
other day ; and there doesn’t seem
to be more capital leaving the
country than usual. In fact, two or
three days after the fires were lit, one
of Australia’s biggest trading con-
cerns—Burns, Philp and Co. —an-
nounced in Sydney that they were
asking to increase their nominal
capital from half a million to two
millions, and their paid capital from £300,000 to
£750,000, in view of the improved outlook for
larger trade and bigger profits.
A few days before the Referenda vote was
taken, the Liberal party flooded the country with
this allegation :
If the powers sought for are conferred, the Federal
Government will have the power to prohibit the carrying
on of business at all.
The State Government has every power which the
Federal Government asked for; so the people
who voted “No” will now have time to reflect
that, since the power was not transferred to the
Commonwealth, the State Government can forth-
with shut up businesses and declare the wearing of
straw hats illegal.
“CLASS CONSCIENCE.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There is a movement in Victoria to hold a conference of
churches for the purpose of considering what steps may
be taken to combat the growing “ class conscience.”
“ Class conscience ” is a wicked thing ;
It makes the working man aspire
To have the tender liver wing,
The motor-car and diamond ring,
The pretty wife, the fine attire,
And all the things the Fats desire.
The boss had viands rich and choice,
The “ man ” had rags, a hunk, a bone;
And then the gentle pastor’s voice
In poverty bade him rejoice,
And all was well from zone to zone—
“ Class conscience ” was a thing unknown.
The working man has been to school;
A vicious change has come to pass—
He sees the payment of the fool
Is scraps and tatters, as a rule.
Now self-help, practised by the mass
Becomes “antipathy of class.”
When “ master ” got the prize of toil,
And all the lavish land’s increase,
And labor got the drips of oil,
And never dared to raise a broil,
None cried to have “ class conscience ” cease—
Dear brethren, that was “perfect peace.”
VICTORIA.
EDDY SON.
SUPPORT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Argus abuses Hughes for his appeal in favor of a
Labor daily. It concludes with a lofty air : “ Let the
party amend its ways, abandon its class hatreds, adopt a
patriotic policy of conciliation and co-operation for the
advancement of Australia, and it will not lack press
support.”
If it will kneel, in gratitude,
The Age will bless its attitude;
And if ’twould hang, there’s plenty scope—
The Argus will provide a rope.
’Tis quite a piquant paradox :
The “ Liberal ” papers come, in flocks,
Support to give the Labor clown,
If he will take it lying down !
VICTORIA.
SILAS.


THE WONDERFUL
AUTO-PIANO.
Closed as an ordinary Plano.
am
Open as a Player Piano.
The Player-Piano that is "Different.”
We sell on the Easiest Possible Terms. &
Full value allowed for your ordinary Piano.
NICHOLSON § CO. LIMITED
SYDNEY, NEWCASTLE, ORANGE,
b TOOWOOMBA and WARWICK.
ACMAR
Sheep-branding Fluid
that lasi's from shearing
to shearing.
Yet comes out completely
in the scouring of the woof
DOES NOT MAT THE FLEECE
Vacuum Oil Company Propry. Lid.
Throughout the Commonweairh
and New Zealand.
4^
m,
mr, ■ '
wm. ■
. .
’I
Good Gloves for Gentlemen
at FARMER’S.
WARM GLOVES FOR
WINTER.
BUCKSKIN, wool-lined. Prices 3/6, 4/6,
6/6 and 8/6 pair.
BUCKSKIN, wool-lined, fur wrists. Prices
5/6 and 6/6 pair.
FUR-LINED. Prices 10/6 and 12/6 pair.
DOGSKIN, wool-lined. Prices 4/6, 6/6
and 7/6 pair.
DRIVING GLOVES.
FAN LEATHER, 5/6, 6/6 and 7/6 pair.
BLACK, 6/6 pair.
MOTOR GLOVES.
UNLINED. Prices 10/6, 12/6, 16/6 pair.
BUCKSKIN, wool-lined, Knitted Gaunt-
lets. Price 14/6 pair.
FUR-LINED, 18/6 pair.
P UR, wool-lined, very warm. Price 18/6
pair.
WALKING GLOVES.
TAN KID, 5/6, 6/6 and 7/6 pair.
BLACK KID, 5/6 pair.
BLACK SUEDE, 6/6 pair.
TAN or GREY SUEDE, 6/6 pair.
TAN BUCKSKIN, 6/6 pair.
REINDEER, 12/6 pair.
FARMERS, SYDNEY.
To JAVA,
“The Garden of the East,”
by the
“ROYAL PACKET.”
S K
a
REGULAR MONTHLY SAILINGS for . ~
Java and Singapore,
via Queensland Ports, Port Moresby, Thursday Island, Port Darwin and Dobo,
by the Magnificent New Steamers
Van Linschoten and Van Waerwyck.
These Steamers are specially built and equipped for voyaging in the Tropics.
Large, airy two-berth cabins, all situated on' the upper deck, and provided with
electric fans and large windows. No port-holes. No inside cabins.
Spacious promenade decks.
FORTY-SIX REGULAR MAIL SERVICES
throughout the Thousand Islands of the Malay Archipelago. Maintained by 04 Modern
Mail Steamers. Total tonnage, 103,900 gross.
For further information apply to
ROYAL PACKET S. N. CO.,
7 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
JOHN SANDERSON & CO., Melbourne ; BIRT & CO., LTD., Brisbane ;
ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide ;
EARP BROS. & CO., LTD., Newcastle.


HAIR PRESERVED
AND BEAUTIFIED
BY USING
Rowland’s
MACASSAR OIL.
It prevents baldness, eradicates scurf, is the best
dressing for ladies’ hair and for Children it is invalu-
able. Also in a Golden Colour for fair hair.
Sizes 3s. 6d., 75., 10s. 6d. Sold by Stores
Chemists, & A- Rowland. & Sons, Hatton Garden,
London.
SPRAINS AND BRUISES.
The right time to treat a sprain or bruise is the
moment you get it, and the right remedy to use is
Chamberlain’s Pain Balm. The quicker you rub
it on, and the more you use it, the quicker your
sprain will be cured.*
BE YOUR OWN DOCTOR.
PRESCRIBE DR. MORSE’S INDIAN ROOT PILLS
AND KEEP A BOTTLE IN THE HOUSE.
The Doctor is a luxury that thousands and
thousands of people can ill afford. The ne-
cessity of calling one in is considered a cal-
amity in a family where they find it hard to
secure the common necessities of life, and to
make ends met. Doctors’ fees and chemists’
charges keep a poor man poor, and discour-
age the young married man in his efforts to
save and acquire independence. Sickness, is
no respecter of persons. Rich and poor alike
are subject to all the common ailments —dis-
orders of the stomach, liver, kidneys and
blood. In thousands of homes throughout
Australia and New Zealand —in the man-
sion, the village, the cottage, the camp, the
homestead, in the settler’s home and the -
bushman’s hut —Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills are the household remedy. They purify
the Blood, correct the Liver, stimulate the
Kidneys and tone up the Stomach and the
whole system.
DR‘MORSE'S
IkbiM'K
PILLS
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE.
West Australian Agents—RICHARD
NO PRESERVATIVES.
HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLjARDIE I_^ 1 _^
Brewery and Offices :
Dowling Street, REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
The finish of Sydney First Grade Cricket
Competition was a close and interesting thing. In
the history of the premiership there has bean no-
thing more exciting, and anything exciting about
cricket is remembered for centuries. At the begin-
ning of the last round Gordon was just ahead on
points, with Redfern hovering horribly on the hori-
zon. If Redfern beat University and Burw’ood
downed Gordon, the fat was in the fire, and a defeat
of both would have hashed things up gloriously.
But Redfern got University down, and fell upon it
to the tune of 224 on the first innings. This made
the Syrian suburb very hopeful, and it inquired
loudly if anyone had heard how Gordon w r as dealing
with Burwood. Gordon was dealing with Burwood
with a vengeance; Burwood had smacked up 281 in
the first innings, and Gordon had responded with
287 runs for two wickets (Macartney, 107, not out;
Trumper, 79; Iredale, 36; Johnston. 56, not out;
sundries, nine). So Gordon won by eight wickets
and six runs on the first innings—a fearful hiding,
the father of a dog-walloping. Gordon thus won the
premiership with 16 points; Redfern was runner-up
with 14 ; then University, nine; Petersham, eight;
North Sydney, three; Burwood, two. After that the
score ran from one point by Central Cumberland, to
Waverley’s 11 below zero. Cricket may not be de-
cadent, but some of the clubs evidently are.
Altogether Saturday was a great day. Cotter
got loose and played the Triton among the minnows,
clean-bowling seven Sydney batsmen for 39 runs,
and performing the hat trick. Folkard smashed up
six Cumberlanders for 40, and Hazlitt, in return,
took six Balmaniacs for 45. These were only the
cream of the performances; there were plenty of
others of excellent quality. But, in spite of this
fearful slaughter, the bat also got loose, and LiP um "
phreys’s 114, in a total of 207, Macartney’s.'lo7,
Roughley’s 109, and Johnston’s 116 made 'a ; track
of glory across the afternoon. And below; these
were Dean’s 90 and Harvey’s 85 (not out).
The Sydney Second Graders also ended
up their little flutter. Marrickville, in the first at-
tempt, took the premiership with one point to spare
from University 11. .In the Third Grade, Norjm
Sydney gained its sixth success in seven
mighty record, indeed. i :
J. N. Crawford has received a formal
notice from Surrey County that it has rescinded its
own resolution of August, 1909, which kicked him
out. It seems to have been a silly business, anyway.
Surrey had beaten the Australian XI., and Crawford,
who was asked to act in the captain’s absence for
the return match, thought they could do; the trick
again if he had all the best material available 1 . The
committee, however, left out one or two, profes-
sionals he thought invaluable. He protested- Both
sides said more than they meant; and eventually
St. Peter’s College, Adelaide, , got a new junior
master, and S.A. got a chance —-which it promptly
took —of winning the Sheffield Shield. Surrey’s pre-
sent move may be merely doing a decent action, or
may have an eye to getting J.N.C. back. He is
just giving, up schoolmastering, with the idea of
going where all young South Aus. goes now —on the
Land.
Crowds lined up at tlie Victorian League
matches on Saturday, showing that the public isn’t
as disgusted as it might be at the “demoralisation
of ’oofball. The East Melbourne ground, in par-
ticular, was packed as for a semi-final. Here Essen-
don and Carlton collided with some force, but with-
out animosity ; in fact, all the day’s games passed oft
with an absence of brawls. The ’Dons were faster
and lasted better, but their lamentable shooting
robbed them of victory. At half-time they had put
on 16 points—one goal 10 behinds —to Carlton s 30
—four goals six behinds. In the second spell, how-
ever they improved their aim, and had just equalised
matters —45 points all —when the bell rang. First
draw of the season, after a strenuous and cheerful
but not over-scientific game. At Victoria Park, the
premiers, ’Wood, met Richmond, which had been
assuring its supporters that it was the pea. The
yellow-and-blacks worked with certainty, and had a
few good kickers; but the combination that ensures
success wasn’t there. The Magpies, on the contrary,
marked vilely, but their concerted play rattled Rich-
mond, and the premiers rubbed it in to the tune of
94 points to 65. Souths, with only one recruit to
the team that lost the semi-final last year, took the
field against the Students, whom cireumstanoes an-
nually rob of many of their best ’bailers. They had
six novices on Saturday, also they were short of prac-
tice and void of combination; consequently Souths
established, a lead of 45 points to six in the first
quarter, and increased it to 102 to 40 by 5 o’clock.
The big Metropolitan C. G. opened its gates to a
very large crowd, the M.C.O. having decided to pro-
vide football tickets (at 55.) to those who take no
stock in cricket, picture-shows and the like. In con-
sequence, that team now boasts a body of barrackers,
who urged it to bog in and demolish Fitzroy. ’Roy
is suffering from an internal upheaval, and played
nine new men, who hustled to such purpose that
they led throughout, and were only overwhelmed in
the closing minutes, losing by two points—-70 to
Melbourne’s 72. Geelong, which uprose like Jonahs
gourd towards the close of last season, came up and
tackled St. Hilda. The subsequent disaster was re-
presented by the figures—Saints, 66 points; Sleepy
Hollow, 57. # *
The chief Ass. episode was the colli-
sion of Brunswick and Port. It was expected to be
rather easy for the Brickies; but the others have
acquired two ex-League tiptoppers, who have been
licking the erst-uproarious Portsmen into shape, with
the result that they played the game instead of the
goat, and won by 62 points to 48. Brighton con-
ducted a genteel discussion with P’ran, in which the
thick end of the stick was always held by the shop-
keeping suburb. P’ran, 107 points; Brighton, 32.
This controversy saw the only serious casualty of the
day, a dislocated shoulder. Loving neighbors ’Scray
and ’Town got into holts on ’Town’s ground, the
locals scoring by 21 to ’Scray’s 50. Their passing,
marking and kicking were all poor ; so if they don’t
play for the love of it, like real amateurs, Heaven
knows what they do it for at all. North put up a
mountain of points, viz., 148, to Preston’s 50; and
Essendon made an even holier show of Northcote by
scoring 118 to 18. But Preston and ’Cote are used
to it.
* * * *
N.S.W. Rugby League opened its First
Grade competition on Saturday last in ideal weather
and before huge crowds. Play was strenuous, but
two of the matches had a runaway flavor about them
that detracted from the quality somewhat. South
Sydney scrunched North Sydney by 25 points to five;
which was bad. But the fate of Annandale was even
worse, for Eastern Suburbs rubbed its nose in the
gutter to the tune of 30 points to three. The Glebe
v. Western Suburbs was more even, Glebe winning
by eight to nil. Western Suburbs failed through
the weakness of the forward crowd, especially in the
scrums. Its back-machine was all gold, and worked
like a machine should work—faultlessly. Excellent
kicking kept the Glebe penned up in its own terri-
tory till it became a forward game, and then Glebe
raged like the heathen. It wasn’t so much that
Glebe triumphed as that Western Suburbs failed.
As regards the other two matches, in the North and
South Sydney cmeute, it was the superb passing of
the southern backs that did the mischief. Their
work in this respect was really superb, and, conse-
quently, their charges were irresistible. In addition,
they showed a solid front in defence that broke the
hearts of the Northerners, who simply withered
away. As for Eastern Suburbs and Annandale, the
defeated side was simply out of it —an army of
veterans against raw militia.
The Rugby Union contented itself with
four practice matches, and the quality of the play
showed how serious the stampede has been. The
Union clubs are hard hit, indeed. But the new ma-
terial is promising.
Union Rugby kicks off on Saturday. Al-
though about to engage in a fight for its very life,
it is still amazingly strong in clubs, eight in the
first grade, 14 in the second and 10 in the third
grade. This paper does not regard the position of
the Union as hopeless. All it wants, even now,
is good management to pull it out of the mud. But
whether it has that management about the premises,
only time will reveal.
Sydney University tennis team had a good
time in Adelaide, beating Melbourne (previous holders
of the inter-University challenge-shield) and Ade-
laide comfortably. Cricketer Barbour and Rugby
footballer Metcalfe were in the Sydney six, and the
latter won the champion singles which followed,
beating in the final Herring, who lately played as
one of Victoria’s best six in the regular inter-State
match. The University doubles champions proved
to be Utz and Roxburgh, also of Sydney, Nott and
Bayliss, of Adelaide, being runners-up.
The Mars Buckley Cup, the utensil which
causes an annual commotion among the inter-State
lawn tennis players, is to remain in the Ma State
another year, owing to the Victorians being de-
feated by the N.S.W. reps, by 10 rubbers to two.
Bananaland was anxious to fight for the mug, but the
challenge came too late, and the Northerners were
choked off for another year.
The 47th Inter-State tennis match between
N.S.W. and Victoria was celebrated last week at
Double Bay (Sydney). The men’s singles and
doubles saw N.S.W. on top with 20 rubbers, 40 sets,
and 290 games, against Victoria’s one rubber, nine
sets, 176 games. The solitary win for Victoria went
to Campbell and Blair over Parker and Rice. The
ladies’ side of the game provided a closer finish, the
Ma State being in the ascendancy with six rubbers,
15 sets, 121 games, to Victoria’s six rubbers, 12
sets, 121 games. Up to that point everything in the
garden was lovely; but then the N.S.W. Lawn
Tennis Association began to feel bad. The gate was
a shocking failure, yielding only £32 14s, 9d., a
drop of over £6O compared with last year’s total.
If the State championships turn out no greater draw
than the inter-State matches, the Association will
find itself in a queer position.
Unless the , N. S. Wales Lawn Tennis Associa-
tion can rake the money out of the public its case
is hopeless. More complaints of meanness are laid
against tennis players than any others. At the
courts, there are scouting boys who bring back the
balls that are driven hither and thither, and who
are generally regarded as caddies are at golf. But
while your golfer always pays his caddies, and usu-
ally pays them well, the rule in tennis seems to be
“Do the boys if you can.” At one of the biggest
suburban courts last Saturday, writer saw a small
boy scouting for a dozen players from 1.30 till 5
p.m., and, as he was kept going all the time, they
were very glad to have him. Yet those dozen mis-
erable “sports” slunk off without offering the boy
even a penny. And that’s the snag Lawn Tennis is
up against—it has too many of that sort among
its members.
* * * *
The Inter-State eight-oar race on the Par-
ramatta (N.S.W.) next Saturday is to be all-
Australian, as every State will be well re-
presented, and the Westralians are, at time
of writing, just as sanguine as the Ma
Staters. The Ma State crew has fairly lived on the
water the last few weeks, and slept in camp close be-
side it; and if careful preparation means anything,
they will be a formidable boat-load. And usually
careful preparation means a lot. The Australian Single
Sculls should also make for excitement when Cecil
McVilly, of Tasmania, defends his title against the
assault of J. R. Towns (N.S.W.) and H. E. Stevens
(Vic.). Rowing is in a good way just now, the only
beetle in the soup being the wail of the Ma Associa-
tion that there are no funds to give the visitors a
good time.
The Great Public Schools Regatta on the
Parramatta (N.S.W.) last week provided a rare tit-
bit in the “Championship Eights.” From end to
end there was never more than a couple of lengths
between the four entrants, and when St. Joseph’s
College struggled through with no more than 2ft. to
spare from Sydney Grammar School, with the other
boats almost in a'line, the welkin split. The “fours”
also produced a fine race, which St. Ignatius won,
with the others in a bunch a length away. Alto-
gether it was a Saints’ day.
* * * *
N.S.W. Bowling Association got into the
soup over the question of a paid secretary. The
committee recently came to the conclusion that
the affairs of the Association had now grown to a
size which practically demanded the whole time of
at least one man. To provide the salary, the com-
mittee recommended that a-capitation tax of 3s. per
annum be levied on metropolitan members, and Is.
on those who dwell and play in the country. It
seemed reasonable enough, Heaven knows; but the
members went cantankerous, and kicked the proposal
into limbo. Whereupon the -president, secretary, and
the rest of the officers went on strike and left the
Association dumbfounded-
Henry Moses, of the Commercial Bank of
Sydney, who was about the hardest man in his day
to dig out of the N.S.W. Inter-State Cricket Team
they were the days of Sammy Jones, Percy Mac-
Donnell, Turner and Ferris —has now won the N.S.W.
Bowls championship. Moses left the cricket field
in his prime, because he couldn’t afford the neces-
sary time for practice. He at once took to bowls,
and was an instant success at it.
The spread of bowls in S. Aus. is best
shown by the rise of the suburban clubs. The
District system not being enforced, the first-estab-
lished Adelaide and Oval clubs keep the premiership
between them; but they are always liable to get a
shaking-up from an outside club, and this year the
individual-best player is declared to be Bednall, of
the Semaphore. “Champion of champions” is the
modest • title that goes with this success. Also, the
same club has annexed the single-rink-of-four pre-
miership, with a team which, by some curious ar-
rangement (or lack of it), did not include its own
champion.
The most extravagantly foolish of all
the English attempts to belittle George Gray’s bil-
liards is the suggestion advanced by the London
Sportsman —-ordinarily a sane paper —that his prac-
tice of “allowing his cue to rest on the cloth after
completing a stroke, .and making a lateral movement
with? the tip, raises the nap sufficiently to check the
red ball on the desired spot.” From this it might
be supposed that Gray’s losing hazards from baulk
were always made into the same pocket. Besides, if
his cue affected the surface of the cloth from the
very outset of a long break (assuming, of course,
that he confined his play to one pocket only), he
would build up a sort of barricade by the time he
got to his 500th consecutive hazard. In which
case the red ball would finish its career down the
table by resting against the ridge of nap on the
far side, and Gray’s own ball would need to do a
kangaroo act in order to hit. the red. The inven-
tion of such a theory is a lovely compliment to
Gray’s achievement. His play is so accurate that
a marvellous explanation is offered to the British
public, who, in days of long ago, were gravely told
that the quick movement of Ned Hanlan’s racing
skiff between strokes might be due to secret mechan-
ism underneath it.
“Spot”: Looks as though billiards will
have to be re-organised and the red bail eliminated
in some way. Consider how the red ball kills in-
terest in the game. At the match with A. E. Wil-
liams, at Sydney, last week, Fred Lindrum made
breaks of 706, 541, 53S and other huge numbers,
and thereby won a 14,000 game by 5057. _ Why,
when George Gray returns and challenges Lindrum
for the championship, the game will degenerate into
an endurance tussle, which will bring even club-
swinger Tom Burrows to tears.
Australian cyclists are still battering awav
at Leon Meredith’s 100-mile record, but with little
effect. The nearest approach was that of J.
McSweeney, of Westralia, who ran over the distance
in shr. 26min. lOsec. ; but between that and the
4hr. 52min. 51 4-ssee. of the Englishman, there
is fixed a great gulf. Many records and reputations
are, however, buried in Australia, and there is every
probability that the record of Leon Meredith will
find a grave in the same soil within the next few
months.
•w * * w
N.S.W. Amateur Athletic Association has
taken the only way to secure a' ground, by entering
into an agreement for the use of the Sydney Sports
Ground throughout the summer. The Rugby League
has the same area for the winter; so the space is
occupied from the kick-off till the drawing of stumps.
Amateur athletics boom in Victoria. The
opening of the cross-country season last week saw
429 start in the combined run, representing 18
clubs. “Sydney for pleasure,” Melbourne for the
strenuous life.
* * * *
“ J.P.”: In a recent Bulletin (16/3/T1)
a Christchurch (M.L.) cricket record was noted.
Auckland has just provided another. A softgoods
drummer, named Rowntree, knocked 50 runs off two
overs —five fours and a six, followed by six fours.
The bowler’s name is mercifully withheld. His alias
is Mud.
* * * *
They last well, some of these crack rifle-
shots. “Carbine Jimmy” Ross, who had won the
Mapriland Carbine belt in 1884, 1886 and 1888 (he
got it then for keeps), was still plugging with great
accuracy at last year’s M.L. rifle meeting; tied for
first place in the first stage of the “King’s,” and
finished third for the championship belt. But the
conditions under which Jimmy did the great things
have at last been changed; the M.L. defence man-
agers have come to a sensible decision to ban the old
fixed bull’s-eye target from all ranges, and replace
it with objects more in the nature of service con-
ditions.
* * * *
The Sydney hockey-players are great on
nomenclature. Consider the names of their clubs:
Bandits, Barbarians, Corinthians, Corona, Pilgrims,
Ramblers, Rovers and Trojans. The season opens
on the 22nd, and the programme has been arranged
up till July 1, after which the champions will fight
out another round among themselves, to decide
which of them will kiss Polly at the end of the
season.
A queer case was tried before Judge
Jameson at the Croydon (Q.) District Court the
other day. Last July a match for £5O a-side was
run between two local horses —Deerfoot and Velox.
There was a very close finish, but the judge reckoned
that Velox had won bys a head. The owner
Deerfoot protested; but the protest was dismissed
by the committee of the local racing club. (The
match took place on a race day, and the committee
had control of it.) The next day the stakes were
paid over to the owner of Velox ; but the owner of
the other nag told the stakeholder that he paid at
his own risk, and started an action to recover his
£5O. Judge Jameson said there was no doubt
that Velox had won; nevertheless, he was bound to
give a verdict for the plaintiff, under an old English
law which declares that if one of the parties to a
wager expresses dissent before the money is paid
over, he may recover it from the stake-hoider. He
admitted that he didn’t like deciding that way, and
would be glad to state a case for the Full Court.
And finally he rapped out that he wouldn’t allow
Costs, anyway.
*** * ’ ’
Adelaide put up two records of a sort on
April 8. One was on the city racecourse, where
Steelbit, by Lord Grenville (dam unknown), a six-
year-old, with 9st. 51b. up, did the two-mile
"steeplechase in 3min. 52sec. (The obstacles _ at
Victoria Park are not trifles, either.) The previous
record was by Findowie, at Caulfield, 3min. _s2jsec.
There may, however, be trouble over this new
time. The electric Clock, which “can’t lie,” is
started when the gong sounds. But the gong went
late, and, as the electric ticker was obviously going
to lie, it was not used. The time given was taken
by the hon. timekeeper, on his own watch, from
the fall of the flag. The other record is only a
“probably”—6min. 44sec. on a 3i-h.p. Triumph
motor-cycle, for 4 miles 148 yards up the Greenhill-
road, which is about the nastiest of the hill-climbing
tests that are scattered around Adelaide’s back door.
The bookies at Scarsdale (Vic.) went on
strike the other day because the judge declared the
favorite, New Moon, had won, when the ring was
quite convinced in its own bag that Royal Lady had
won. In high dudgeon the bookmakers resolutely
refused to take any more of the people’s money for
the rest of that day. In a roundabout way it re-
calls the pathetic outburst of a well-known Mel-
bourne penciller: “The bleedin’ horse won, after
all! Tell you what it is, there’ll be no certainty
in racing till the exclamation ring rides the con-
taminated horses itself.”
* * *
Although the Rugby Leaguers entered the
field last Saturday, winter from the athletic stand-
point does not really begin till next Saturday, when
Lacrosse, Union Rugby, Australian and Soccer will
all burst simultaneously into flood. The cricket sea-
son is a sad time for the professional barrackers, and
the arrival of football opens the lungs and brings
new life to the howlers. What the barrackers would
do if football were abolished only the Lord knows,
and because He knows, presumably He will not allow
football to come to naught.
Broken Hill has a Ladies’ Cricket Asso-
ciation, which ends its season with Miss Reidy at
the top of the batting' averages, with 28. Her 62
wickets, at an average of under 4, might reason-
ably be expected to put her head of the bowling
also. But it didn’t. Miss Stephens took 116 at
an average cost of 31.
One Percy Thellusson, who carries a cour-
tesy “Hon.” in his carpet-bag, has put up a record
in M.L trout-fishing at one of the bays on Lake
Taupo. His catch for 11 days was 370 fish, weigh-
ing 33751 b. ; and the Maoris and pakehas of little
Taupo have had small meat-bills for a fortnight.
“Martinmas”: The average fighting man
hasn’t much idea of time whilst he is in the ring.
When young Jim Armstrong fought Mehegan in Ade-
laide he lasted 10 rounds, but confessed that he re-
members nothing after round four. At the local
Stadium, not long ago, a boxer went back to his
corner after the sixth round, and calmly said:
“That’s the second round gone, ain’t it?” When
Tom Dunn and Ernest Waddy fought a fearful mix-
up, after the second round Waddy asked how many
rounds had been fought. When he was told, he was
amazed. He thought he’d been hitting the other
fellow half an hour.
Talking at the Sydney Journalists’ In-
stitute the other night, aviator Hammond said he
was one of the original 12 “flying men” of whom
eight are now in Heaven. He was, he believes, the
first representative of the Pan-Britannic nations to
take to the business —or gamble—whichever you
like. That he is now among the most skilful of the
world’s aviators is a feather in the cap of Austral-
asia, which bred him. He is a Maorilander.
*'***
The battle of Kid McCoy versus Billy
Wenand, fought at Melb. Athletic Club’s Hall, on
Eight-Hours morning, was a trial of stoush between a
game, clever, small boy and an equally clever lad
with about 141 b. of beef to the good. Weight told,
but little Wenand, the Maori bantam, made a rat-
tling good scrap of it as far as it went. Billy’s wild
career ended abruptly in the seventh, when McCoy
had his opponent finished, and the Maorilander wisely
“flew the rag.” McCoy is just about a good enough
proposition for any lightweight in Australia, and it
was not a fair deal to give the bright little bantling
from over the water so tough a nut for his first
crack in Australia.
“Silas Suell”: Clarry Weber does not
seem too precipitate about meeting even that bulky
ancient, Mike Williams, and is making demands on the
boxer ridiculously at variance with his published in-
tention of providing a demonstration of the super-
iority of wrestling as a means of self-defence. It
is now claimed by Weber’s people that Mike must
wear a stout, loose jacket, and be prepared to box
on a wrestling-mat. Of course, he must also muffle
his punch with two or three ounces of padding. The
jacket would greatly help the “rassler,” and seriously
impede the boxer’s arms. The mat would clog the
latter’s feet. There is really no call whatever for a
practical demonstration of the fact that a freC,
powerful 14st. wrestler is too good for a 12st.
boxer blindfolded, hobbled, and having his hands tied
behind him. We’re all willing to take that much
for granted.
**. * *
Mike Williams, the pug., evidently thinks
no bread is better than half a loaf. When he turned
up at Bendigo, recently, to fight Doran, the ex;
amateur heavy-weight champion, he found a house
worth only £22 10s., and immediately made anxious
calculations as to the disposal of this magnificent
sum. The referee was to get £3, and the manage-
ment 30 per cent. ; which left only a possible
£l2 15s. for Michael. So he decided the money
was not worth the risk of the stoushing he would
either get or give, and refused to scrap. Some
people felt sore about it, but Mike stoutly
maintains that he was justified in refusing to serve
out battery for such a small purse. It was all right
for Doran, he says, Doran being a new arrival from
the amateur ranks, but it was no good for Michael.
Now people loudly affirm that it was as much fear
of what Doran would serve out to him as the paucity
of the house that caused him to come to such a de-
cision. But that’s quite absurd; Mike may not be
much of a bruiser, but his courage is indisputable.
* * * *
One of the qualifications of a gentleman
who trains bruisers nowadays is the ability to in-
vent sonorous sobriquets for his proteges. At this
business Tahmmy Burns is a past master, so
this unknown packet, Jack Lester, who has
come to Australia under the great little
fighter’s auspices, is billed as “The Fight-
ing Demon.” Why, only Heaven and Tahmmy
know. Other people guess—but cannot be sure, of
course —that it is all part of the advertising scheme.
When those Yankees were here we found gentlemen
labelled “Cyclone,” who didn’t amount to even a
whirlwind, though they certainly blew for all they
were worth. The night that Papke jigged round
the ring with Dave Smith in pursuit, someone
who wandered in, under the impression that he was
in a picture show, inquired who Papke was. “The
Illinois Thunderbolt!” said someone. “Oh!” re-
plied the other. “I can see the bolt all right;
but where’s the thunder?” All the same, this Jack
Lester is a promising-looking animal enough, and
his uppercut is said by competent judges to be a
thing of beauty to look at, but an obscene thing to
feel. At present he weighs 14J stone, and, as he
is only sft. 9in. high, it can be gathered that he is
of the solid build of which born fighters are made.
He is a Canadian, but that fact will not prevent
the Yankee press speaking of him as “American” —
unless he is defeated, in which case he will be
Canadian, and Canadian only.


LOOK FOR NAME ON STRAP,
THE
LOOK FOR NAME ON STRAP,
ITHE Marshall Shoe measures up to every
possible requirement, because it is a
practical shoe comfortable, serviceable,
stylish.
You can demonstrate tins
fact, beyond all question,
by trying one pair of
Marshall Shoes. After
that, you will accept
no other shoe. We
know this must be so
hy experience and the
grow th of our
factory
,
A
24j
Slyi*
No. 1506
Glace Kid
Blucher Bal.,
Ampere Bast
Send for Style Book,
Stocked by Anthony Hordern & Sons,
Sydney and most other Good Dealers.
Inquire of yours.
MARSHALL SHOE CO.,
RICHMOND, VIC.
ANOTHER STYLE NEXT WEEK
ħ
The Popular £ll Cycle,
t> e safe in saying that there are more riders of
B. &B. Cycles than any others. This is solely the result
of good building-. The men who g-et a B. & B. for their first
mount never exchange it for any other, while those who have the rnis-
aVl B P °° r machine lose n 0 time in tfettanfr rid of it in
„ • & B ’ s r, V" e in P rice from £B/10/=, and there is a model to
suit the means of every would-be rider. One we particularly recom-
mend is our Model 3at £ll. Come in and see one. Our Pitt Street
Depdfc is open till 9 p.m. on Fridays.
BENNETT 8 BARKELL, LTD.,
Largest Cycle Building
House in the State,
.234 POT STREET, and CASTLEREAOH STREET, SYDNEY
GUARANTEED 2 YEARS.
20-30-h.p. Chalmers
£490
s=Seater
Touring Car.
40-h.p. THOMAS,
6=Cylinder 7=Seater.
ROY W. SAND FORD.
181 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Also at 105 EXHIBITION STREET, MELBOURNE.
Confomat” Hard Hat
EEGD,
“ THE ACME OF COMFORT.”
THE highest grade HARD HAT, hand-made in a
special way from the choicest materials ; con-
forms to tiie head, making it most comfort-
u 6 'j , eas y-fitting even when new, and fits any
shaped head. Exceptionally light, very durable,
and guaranteed absolutely FAST DYED.
Price 13/6.
J" j ll th T? Newest Season’s Styles. Stocked by
LiCaaing’ Retailers throughout Australia. Try one.
m 8 !? 1 *V pc ! n , havin £T the genuine best with the
Xrade Mark ‘ Confomat ” stamped on the leather,
if unobtainable in your district, write us direct.
The Austral Hat Mills. Ltd.,
Abbotsford, Melbourne. j
“ LINSEED COMPOUND” for Coughs and
Colds. Relieves Asthma and difficult breathing.
CUT DOWN COSTS
IN THE SAW MILL
We are Sole Agents for Messrs. J. Sagar
& Co., England, and The Defiance
Machine Works, U.S.A. ; makers of
High-Grade Woodworking Machines of
every kind. Our stocks are representative
of the most advanced ideas for High
Speed, Quick Handling and Convenience
—in fact, everything is maximum— -except
the price. Write us for Catalogue M 5.
Thos. McPherson 8 Son,
Modern Machine Tools
for All Trades,
582-588 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Makei
your
own
Cigareftej
If
twice
as good
CIGARETTE
PAPER
and VWHLST
IF NOT PROCURABLE AT YOUR
TOBACCONIST APPLY TO THE AGENTS
Jacobs Bros. U? 255“ George S? Sydney
LINSEED COMPOUND ” for Coughs and
Colds. Of proven efficacy for chest complaints.
OLD ORKNEY
Real Liqueur Whisky
w.
OLD
ORKNey
m
?^3S»
M
- f'!
U
[ JiGENTS:
SYDNEY-Tooheys, Ltd.
MELBOURNE—T. R. Jones & Co.
BRISBANE—EIIiott, Donaldson
& Douglas, Ltd
ADELAIDE—Lord & Heseltine.
HOBART—John Ferguson & Co.
LAUNGESTON—Jonn McKenzie & Co.
THE WHISKY
FOR IHE HOME
Your
Next Pair of Shoes!
J ,e *' ” s vou with j*our next pair of shoes, and so decide for yourself just
rpu the name R| R' ne y on a Shoe nleans in comfort, style and service
There is satisfaction to us in selling only the best Gent.’s Footwear
because we know that once you wear a pair of our shoes vou will *
become another permanent wearer of Rigney Shoes.
The Shoe illustrated is a Patent Calf Oxford Shoe, Circular
Vamp, Back Counter Calf Kid Leg, Patent Lace Face Perfora-
tions. Walking or Dress Wear.
Price 25/- Postage 9d. extra.
Write for a Copy of our New Catalogue.
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.,
“The Men’s Exclusive High-Grade Shoe Stores,”
305 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
and 179 a PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Please note that the new shop in Pitt Street is
under the personal management of Mr. F. C.
RLnoy, the sole and only proprietor of the
above firm.
1
CAPILLARINE the moustache producer
\
K
k
r*
YOU
CAN GROW A MOUSTACHE!
Your friends remark amongst themselves on your hairless upper lip
It s a reproach you need not suffer. H '
CAPILLARINE
will remove it, and force the lightest, slightest
down into a long, strong moustache o-rowth
T , . ... , Been proved at this for SO years now !
It is quite harmless—no one can notice it’s
being used, and it’s simple as A B C to apply.
Price 10/6 a Jar. Post free to any address in the world in plain', sealed wrapper
Have you a Moustache? The Craig & Aitken Trainer shapes it '
mcely. Worn at night. 2,6 post free.
CRAIG & AITKEH, 654 George Street, Sydney.
Established
30 Years.
m
/
o
The product of
Qne source only
More miles on *“ Shell" than
oo any other.
Its perfect parity —that's
the point'
jmWUCHETS/
i
(
\
KKY&BMDDM
REMEDY
A CORRECTIVE
OF THE
URINARY
ORGANS
w.
IT IS
ALSO A
SPLENDID
TONIC
tf
CLARTONJODGSON&C9I/TP 4
Sole Ji/sfa/sswAgents. 73 YORK3T.SYDNBY
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS.—New
Series. IV.. V.. VI. Packet of Twelve, 6d ;
Packet of Ten, sd. Posted free to any address!
Special rates to agents. The Bulletin Office,
214 George Street, Sydney.
h
PEBECO
does far more than ensure
whiteness of the teeth. It
counteracts the acid secretions
of the mouth, in which flourish the
bacterial ravages of the teeth.
As a breath purifier Pebeco is
invaluable. Night and morning
use of it will repay a hundredfold
in improved appearance, economy
in dental expense and better health.
PEBECO
Tooth Paste.
Of all Chemists, etc.
Sole Agent
G. Arnold,
6 O’Connell St., Sydney
(Wholesale only).
c
HEAP, Second-Hand 15BreakH.P.
TANGYE GAS ENGINE,
IN GOOD ORDER.
Apply Manager, “ BULLETIN ” OFFICE
214 George Street, Sydney.


A. SAUNDERS’ TOILET-SILVER
A. SAUNDERS.
Crocodile Leather, MOTOR BAG, High-class
Lining, Good Quality Frames,
io/«
A. SAUNDERS.
COLLAR STUD BOX, Pierced Design,
Pure Silver-plated,
7/6.
Lady’s
CASE, in
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Embossed CARD
Silk-lined Case, Size 4x3 inches.
30/.
% I
m
'
= !.-
A. SAUNDERS.
Real Mother-o’-Pearl TRINKET STAND
or ASH TRAY, Ebony Base, Solid Silver-
mounted,
4/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
FRENCH BRIAR PIPE, Pure Silver
Mounts and Screw; straight or bent Amber
Stem, ' Case,
12/6-
A. SAUNDERS.
SHAVING TIDY, Pure Silver-plated Mounts,
5/6-
BEAUTIFUL GIFTS That Would Please Immensely.
ORDER BY MAIL ’Tis Easy And so Satisfactory.
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s HAIR BRUSH,
Solid Silver-mounted,
Handsomely Embossed,
Fine White Bristles,
7/6.
A. SAUNDERS
SEWING COMPANION,
Solid Silver-mounted, com-
prises 4 Articles and 2 Set
of Needles,
12/6-
A. SAUNDERS.
Plush HANDKERCHIEF Box.
Pure Silver-plated Mounts,
4/t»-
Glove Box to Match, 5/6.
m
: E
S
l. '..at
SAUNDERS.
Antique Design Solid Silver
plain fluted CABINET PHOTO
FRAME, highly burnished,
7/6
A. SAUNDERS.
BIRTHDAY BOOK, Pure Sil-
ver-Mounted, Cherub' Design,
Full Size,
A. SAUNDERS.
LADY’S TOILET SET, Solid Silver-Mounted,
Handsomely Embossed, comprising 2 full-sized
Hair Brushes, Comb, and Hand Miror, in Silk-lined
Case with double catches,
£5/3 r.
SOLID
SILVER.
12/6
h
SOLID
SILVER,
12/6
WE PAY
POSTAGE
ON ALL
THESE
GOODS.
LET US
SEND
YOU
OUR
BEAUTI-
FUL
FREE
CATA-
LOGUES.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver MIRROR,, Grape and Cherub Design.
British Plate Glass, bevelled, size 9J x 5 inches.
12/6
A. SAUNDERS.
JEWEL CASKET, Pure Silver-plated, Plain and
Embossed Design, Silk-lined. Size sin x sin.
£2/.
BjBBaB
’v3 i n i- 1 * j
.
gtmpia
• ; *?Li>.'’.
sfimmuiiiiiiiiiii i
sse
A. SAUNDERS.
MANICURE SET, Solid Silver-Mounted, Beautifully
Embossed, comprising 9 articles, in Silk-lined
Morocco Case,
35/-
A SAUNDERS.
SCEN'i PUMP, Solid
Silver, Embossed or
Plain Mounts, Fancy
Cut Glass,
A. SAUNDERS.
HAT or CLOTHES
BRUSH, Pure Silver,
Large Size, Embossed
Design, Long White
Bristles, S/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
TOILET POMADE
BOX Fine Diamond
Cut Glass, Solid Sil-
ver Top; height,
2i inches,
8/0
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Solid Silver
CARD CASE, Richly
Embossed, 10/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver Moun-
ted COMB, Embos-
sed Design, Full
Size,
5/6-
A. SAUNDERS.
BACK COMB, Oct Gold, Scoll Mount,
17/6
A. SAUNDERS.
GENT.’S HAIR BRUSH, Solid
Silver, nicely Embossed; fine
White Bristles,
8/(5
WE HAVE
CATALOGUES
OF
BOTH
DEPART-
MENTS.
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Solid Silver PURSE and CARD CASE,
Handsomely Embossed, Extension Inner Frames,
£3/1-0/.
KINDLY
MENTION
WHICH IS
REQUIRED
WHEN
WRITING.
m
m
S 3
aw***
A. SAUNDERS.
GENT.’S CARD CASE, Solid Silver,
Engraved, with lid, 15/6-
Without Lid, 12/6.
Hand-
A. SAUNDERS.
SHOE LIFT and HOOK, Solid Silver, 7in long,
nicely Embossed, in Silk-lined Case,
7/6-
A. SAUNDERS.
Handsomely Engraved Solild Silver CIGAR CASE,
to hold 3 cigars,
©
mm
£
WTSAUNDERs
JEWELLER.'
UtfCH iCtOCfrj
fk MAKER Z
i SILVERSMITH
oo hsultw^
807.809.811,815.815,817, GEORGE ST. (Opposite Railway Srarion) SYDNEY, N.S.W.


Legal Notice.
r I 10 LANGDON MORCOM or other per-
JL sons claiming his share in the Estate
of ELLEN SI BELLA BILLING, deceased.
Pursuant to an Order of the Chancery
Division of the High Court of Justice dated
the 27th February, 1911, made in the Mat-
ter of the Estate of Ellen Sybella Billing de-
ceased in an Action wherein Harry Fitch
was Plaintiff and Caroline Gilbert (Widow)
Defendant (1911. B. 399). Whereby it
was Ordered that the following enquiry
should be made that is to say :
“1. An Enquiry whether Langdon Mor-
com a nephew of the Testatrix is living or
dead and if dead when he died and if he pre-
deceased the Testatrix whether he left any
and what issue who survived her and if he
survived the Testatrix who by devise descent
or otherwise are or is entitled to the moiety
of the two one-fifth shares of the Testatrix’s
real estate which descended to him and who
is his legal personal representative” the said
LANGDON MORCOM or the person or
persons claiming by devise descent or other-
wise to be entitled to the moiety of the said
shares of the Testatrix’s real estate or to be
t Personal representative of the said
LANGDON MORCOM or otherwise to be
interested under the said enquiry are by
their Solicitors on or before the Ist day of
July 1911 to come in and prove their claims
at Chambers of Mr. Justice Warrington
and Mr. Justice Parker, Royal Courts of Jus-
tice, London, England (Room No. 252) or
in default thereof they will be peremptorily
excluded from the benefit of the said Order.
Tuesday, the 4th day of July 1911 at 12
o clock at noon at the said Chambers is ap-
pointed for hearing and adjudicating upon
the said claims.
Dated this 20tli day of March 1911.
R. T. WATKIN WILLIAMS,
Master of the Supreme Court.
NOTE.—The said Ellen Sibella Billing
died on the 28th September 1910. The said
Langdon .Morcom left England in a Mer-
chant Ship in or about the year 1862 and
was seen in England again in the course of
the year 1867. He is believed to have left
ms ship in Australia in 1868 or 1869 and
was last heard of in the latter year
BELL, BRODRICK & GRAY,
Ormond House, 63 Queen Victoria
Street, London, England,
Agents for
BEWES & DICKINSON,
East Stonehouse. Devon, England
Solicitors for the Plaintiff (the Executor).
"N THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
WALES.
IN EQUITY.
IN THE MATTER of JOHN BRIDGE
AND COMPANY LIMITED,
AND IN THE MATTER of the Companies
(Amendment) Act 1906.
. NOTICE is hereby given that a Peti-
tion was on the Fourth day of April instant
presented to the Honorable -Philip Whistler
j-treet Judge in Equity by the abovenamed
Company to confirm an alteration of the said
Company’s objects proposed to be effected by
a Special Resolution of the said Company
unanimously passed at an extraordinary
General Meeting of the said Company held
on the eleventh day of November last and
subsequently unanimously confirmed at an
extraordinary General Meeting of the said
Company held on the ninth day of Decem-
ber last THE said resolution is for the pur-
pose of enabling the said Company to enlarge
the scope and area of its operations. Copies
of the said resolution will be furnished
tree of charge to any person interested in
the subject matter of the said Petition on
application at the said Company’s office at
Albert Street Circular Quay Sydney or
Queen Street Brisbane or to the Company’s
Solicitors Messrs. McDonell and Moffitt Mu-
tual Life Association Buildings George and
Wynyard Streets Sydney. AND NOTICE
is further given that the said Petition is
directed to be heard before the Honorable
Mr. Justice Street at the Supreme Court
House King Street on Tuesday the twenty-
nurd day of May next at ten o’clock in
the forenoon or so soon thereafter as Coun-
sel may be heard and any person interested
in the said Company whether as creditor or
otherwise desirous to oppose the making of
an order for the confirmation of the said al-
teration under the above Act should anpear
at the time of hearing by himself or his
Counsel tor the purpose and a copy of the
said Petition and resolution may be in-
spected free of charge either at the said
Company s offices in Sydney or Brisbane or
the offices of the Company’s Solicitors be-
tween the hours of 10 a.m. and 4 p.m. on
week days other than on Saturdays between
the hours of 10 a.m. and 12 noon on Satur-
days and a copy of the said Petition will
be furnished to. any such person requiring the
same by the said Solicitors free of cost.
Dated this thirteenth day of Anril 1911
McDONELL & MOFFITT.’
Mutual Life Association Buildings,
George & Wynyard Streets,
Sydney.
Solicitors for the Company.
Business Announcements.
MILNERS’ SAFES
have the Largest Sale in the World.
.
'vX 1 ? ; T ° hr ' Kee P & Sons, Ltd., Clarence Sc.
rbuS N£ : Briscoe & Co., Ltd., Lit. Collins St.
mTH N M : r Web * ter * Co -> Ltd., Alary St.
•rJUt-lH . McLean Bros. & Rigrg’.
Ans. Rep.—T. Nicholls, e/o Sydney Agents.
MS
C
MR, MKAWBER ON FOUNTAIN PENS.
(Loquitur)
“On the one hand, we have feakines.s blottiness, scratchiness.
Result —Misery ! On the other, cleanliness, swiftness, lightness
Result—Happiness by using the Onoto.”
[The above was drawn by a famous artist after using the Onoto, the safety
fountain pen that fills itself in a flash. He paid 12/- for the pen, and charged
us six guineas for the sketch. Readers will be glad to know that the Onoto is
made in England by British labour.]
Booklet about it free from the makers, Thos. De La Rue & Co., Ltd.,
If>B Bunhill Row, London, E.C., or the Australasian representative, Norman
Baker, 50 York Street, Sydney.
The Onoto can be obtained from all leading stationers and stores at 12/-
and upwards for larger'sizes.
ĥ
The World’s Standard
Valveless Engine.
Sto»
V
M
rn
i raBS
YOU CANNOT AFFORD
to be without Power for your Farm
or Workshop.
Write nearest Agent TO-DAY, giving particulars of
any Machine or Plant for which you require Power
at a Minimum Cost.
A 20th CENTURY FERRO FORMULA.
LABOR minus POWER equals Small Out-
put ; Small Profits.
LABOR plus POWER equals Larger Out-
put ; Larger Profits.
LABOR plus FERRO POWER equals
Largest Output; Largest Profits.
Let us Help You—with a
FERRO—to Make Profits.
Made in 3,4, s'/ 2 , l'/ 2f 8, 11, 12, 15, 17, 25 h.p.
Suitable for STATIONARY, PORTABLE or MARINE USE.
FERRO AGENTS:
Acme Motor & Eng. Co., Lonsdale St., MELBOURNE.
Hall Bros., Druitt St., SYDNEY.
Howard Motor & Cycle Co., Queen St., BRISBANE.
F. J. Langley, Torrens St. E., ADELAIDE.
Perth Motor House, Hay St., PERTH.
Wearne & Ceard, LAUNCESTON.
H. T. Moors, APIA, SAMOA.
Hayward & Garrett, Stuart St., DUNEDIN.
J. F. Connelly, Fort Street, AUCKLAND.
Picture Showmen!
ħ
Beard’s British Built
Bioscopes, £37/10/-
We are easily Headquarters for Cinematograph
Supplies in Australia. Get in touch with a
live firm it s a case of bustle or bust these
competitive times—and we can keep you right
ahead in the Picture Show business.
Our Catalogue tells you everything about
Cinematographs— all the latest news and
developments. Send for a copy.
Our Film Lists will interest you —they cover
every subject. Free, too.
SEND FOR OCR CATALOGUE, FILM
LISTS AND NEW PROGRAMMES.
The House for Accessories and Repairs.
JERDAN’S,
Leading Cinematograph
Specialists,
393 Georg»e
(Facing
Royal Hotel),
Sydney.
&/>e BULLETIN POST CARDS
DAM/Cf .
PACKET OF TWELVE 6d
PACKET OF TEN sd.
£lOOO
IN PRIZES
£lOOO
Value
£5OO
/ First \
{Great Prize J
Value
Or Twelve Months’ Trip Round the
World and £lOO in Cash for ONE
PERSON, or Eight Months for Two.
Notk. Ihe Committee, having paid full
value for the work of art, is prepared to find
a Purchaser for same at the advertised
amount if the winner so desires, also for the
Second and Third Prizes.
SECOND: Value £lOO. THIRD: Value£so.
And 97 other Prizes, totalling £lOOO.
Eight Hours’
l™! Art Union.
55th Year—Oldest and Most Popular—ssth Year
Proceeds in aid of the Hospitals
and Public Charities of Australia.
Prizes will be delivered to winners free of
all charges. A list of winning numbers
will be posted to any person sending an
addressed envelope to the representative,
with stamp unaffixed.
Buy from your Local Agent on or before
April 29, or send Postal Note, P. 0.0., or
stsmps with exchange added, direct to the
Ri'presentative, 2.31 Flinders Lane, Mel-
bourne, at once for tickets, and secure a
chance in this Great Art Union. 22 for
■£l, 11 for 10s., or Is. each.
All direct applications must reach Melbourne
before the date of drawing, May 16, 1911.
Lest You Forget,
Buy To-day.
THEO. W. HE'DE, Representative,
231 Flinders Lane, Melbourne, Vic.
Knifes*'
Fashionable
Favorite-Perfume
P^wwffinmirow^
"/ P “ m,l,, 'S'i'i„
F.WOIFF&SOHN
F. Wolff &Sohn
PERFUMERS
KARLSRUHE j
W BERLIN « LONDON^*/
OUninahle from all the Leading stores.
“PotPourri
tt
stands
for
Quality
“POT POURRI” PIPE TOBACCO—
the highest product of the fr-bacco-
blender's art. 40Z. tins, 2/'« ; Soz.
tins, 4/= ; 8/- per lb.
“POT POURRI” always the same,
always enjoyable.
Clients in country or other States
ORDER NOW, and it will be posted
FREE by return, with Catalogue which will
interest you.
A. A. MARKS
Sole Agent, 376 George St.,
Sydney, N.S.W.
“LINSEED COMPOUND "o( 40 years’ proven
efficacy, for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis, etc.


“Boulevard
The Latest
and
Smartest.
h
Will not
slip at heel.
PRICES— •
14/6, 18/6 & 211-
Pumps and low-cut Oxfords are the fashionable
Shoes for Women’s wear. The great objection to
pumps in the past has been that they would slip
off the heel.
THE “BOULEVARD,”
an entirely new style, is so cut that it cannot
slip. It is’decidedly smart, and we guarantee it
to stay where it belongs.
Prices 14/6, 18/6 and 21/-
Postage in Victoria, 9d. ; other States, 1/- extra.
Gazeka Shoe Paste, in Black and
Brown. Large Tins 6d.
Write for our Booklet “Shoelight.”
EEEMING’S,
109 Swanston Street, Melbourne ;
257-259 Bourke Street, Melbourne;
303 Chapel Street, Prahran ;
1 & 3 Errol Street, Nth. Melbourne.
A HUGE SUCCESS!
C.USTARP
rw’Sja
Bird’s
Custard ninth sfutt
The delicious Fruits of New South
Wales,when stewed, form an exquisite
Dish with BIRD'S CUSTARD, served
either hot or cold. Most popular with
L Adults and the Youthful alike.
ĥ
Get a Pair of Perdriau
SPORTING SHOES.
YOU certainly ought to get a pair of our
famous Rubber Soled Shoes. They are ex-
ceedingly light, springy and comfortable,
as well as being very smart in appearance and
lasting in wear. They do not draw the feet,
and when the soles wear out they may be re-
placed at small cost. _
MEN’S BEST WHITE CANVAS SHOES,
whole cut, without toecaps or straps, leather
welted, solid leather insole, Jin. Perdriau
Rubber Soles, 12/6.
MEN’S WHITE CANVAS SHOES, with
Buckskin Cap and Strap, and Jin. Perdriau
Rubber Soles, 15/=. Same Shoes, but with fin.
Soles, 16/6.
Come in and get a pair of the above Shoes
to-day, or order by mail, adding 9d. extra to
cover cost of postage.
Write for Illustrated Price List if you cannot call
Perdriau Rubber Co. Ltd
“The Best House for All Rubber Goods,”
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
•“BRANDTS
ATMOSLITF <
Gas Machines
Homes
Modernised
by lighting and heating
with an Atmoslite air-
gas machine.
Absolutely safe, automatic
in action, always ready ;• no
skill required to work it, and
costs less to maintain than
any other machine.
Write for Literature.
BRANDT BROS., LTD.,
lamphouse,
236 Pitt St., Sydney.
Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
THE BOSTOCK
I
21!-
Postage
1/- Extra.
Vici Kid, Latest
Round Freak Toe, Best
English Oak Tanned
Leather, Sole Handsewn.
EDWARD FAY,
THE BIG BOOT BLOCK STORE.
\/OU are wanting a reliable pair of Boots, artd are not
Y certain where to buy or what brand * O W C 1 ' h ‘p oO £.
1 a ‘BOSTOCK ’—they are the cream of English l oot
wear, ami every pair is guaranteed. We sort them f
A CUINEA— the lowest in Sydney.
We Guarantee Every Pair We Sell.
If you want a pair of Boots that will fit well, and look
well, pav us a visit; we can please you.
Country Customers can rely upon us for selection
of goods. Just state the shape and size re ‘; rec ’’
and add 1/- extra for postage. \oa will be
delighted with your parcel.
You must try a Pair of our ‘‘Dreadnought
Soles. They will outlast three ordinary holes, and
will not slip. Cent.’s, 1/9 ; Lady s, 1/6.
Corner PITT 8 LIVERPOOL STREETS. 8 at 716 GEORGE STREET, HAYMARKET. SYDNEY
«' m\
i ’ \l
“gUNYI P" -
Forest Devil.
HOW A LADY WORKED
THE “DEVIL.”
Messrs. J. COOPER & SONS,
Melbourne.
PANTON HILL,
17th October, 1910.
Dear Sirs,—Just a few lines to let you know how we are getting along with the Bunyip
•Forest Devil father bought from you three weeks ago. Father says it is the iwu.
MACHINE HE HAS EVER USED, and he has seen and used a good many, and is very
pleased with it. I must let you know a little what we have done with it. Cur trees are
mostly white gum, box, and messmate. We have uprooted trees that were 4ft. "
diameter, or so thick that the anchor rope was just big enough to go round themwithi only
father and myself on the lever. There was one giant that, when 1 said to pull it, father
seemed verv doubtful, and told me to wait until my brothers came home from school , but i
said, “ Put'the ropes on ” ; and both of us got on the lever, and in a short time,. jut came the
monster with roots in the air, and made a hole not less than sft. deep and 12ft wide, we
had not seen a tree pulled .like it. Father would not have the hole filled up, but lets it stop
there so people can see WHAT A POWERFUL MACHINE THE BUNY '•
have PULLED TREES MYSELF, about 2ft. in diameter, without any help. Some of our
trees are dead about five years, and the>'P
soil, but it is all the same. THE GREEN ONES COME OUT JUST AS EASY AS IHE
DEAD ONES. There is NO STOPPING when once the “ Devil catches hold of them
THEY HAVE TO COME WITH THE BUNYIP. Wishing yfiu every suwess in the
fuTure, yours truly, (Signed) MARIA NOTSCHALL.
John Cooper 8 Sons,
287-9 Elizabeth Street (opp. St.
Francis’s Church), MELBOURNE.
&
c
n
m
m
+
&
- n
Si
AGIC|
Stcry
and
IRTA
YOU all know thed'man who does the
tricks” at the part}'—don’t you?
Makes everybody laugh, puzzles and tricks
them, and they can’t Hell how he does it.
YOU can be as clever and funny as he by . , ,
the use of our Tricks, Novelties and Magic Surprises. Very simple if you follow the instructions with each
Write for Free Catalogue of Makers
of Mirth and Mystery.
If
The Wonderful Gyroscope and
Mono=rail Top.
Perfect demonstration of the railroad of
the future. This marvellous top defies
the laws of gravity and equilibrium.
Spins in any position—on top of finger,
end of nose, edge of tumbler, etc. Baffles
Science, delights children, astounds
adults. The more you spin it, the more
it will puzzle you.
Post Free 1/3, or Larger Size, 2/3-
VrrrfY?
CO
Chinese Ring Bar Puzzle.
Endless amusement. The idea is to>
remove the handle from the rings. Loolts
so simple, yet puzzles them all till they
know how. Well made of solid polishedl
brass. Fits vest pocket. Write for iifc
to-day, enclosing stamps for amount.
1/- Post Free.
The Wizard Fortune-
Telling Cards.
■Endless interest. Lends
a new charm to pre-
•dicting: fortune. Sim-
ple to use.
1/9 Post Free.
The Wonderful Plate=Lifter.
Will make your friends’ plates and cups dance quite
unexpectedly as they sit at meals. .No
one can see the cause; works quite im-
perceptibly from the other end of the
table. Shrieks of laughter. 1/- post free.
Wondrous Disappearing
Handkerchief Trick.
This handkerchief makes anything
disappear. Very effective.
1/3 Post Free.
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
(H. L. HUTCHINSON, L TO.)
710 GEORGE STREET,
111 KING STREET,
25-27 OXFORD STREET,
SYDNEY.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted, whether sent by post or handed
in; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps
(of any State) accompany.
Far Back: Thanks for the idea. But,
you see, a lot of these fellows don’t warnt to be
known, and an eight-in-hand of blood-sweating hip-
popotamuses wouldn’t drag out their names or their
pictures without their permission.... Bellerive: The
landed gentry may have, another turn:
MEMORIES.
Within a stylish mansion sat a noted wealthy squire,
Brooding o’er past memories before a ruddy fire;
He recalled as he sadly pondered his first unhappy
Wife
| He had deserted and left to die in the blossoms of
her life; ,
He was interrupted by a servant who informed him
she had found
Nestled upon the doorstep A child sleeping sound ;
He pressed the waif into his bosom and as he gazed
upon her face
The image of his departed wife the gloomy man did
trace; '
Bowed by grief and memories he knelt in sad Des-
pair
And offered up to the great Supreme a long repent-
ful prayer.
Black F (M.L.) : If you have anything worth
saying, say it in the most direct manner you can.
So far, you haven’t found the thing to say....
11.W.5.: Returned. Unable to use U.8.H.: Poem
too slow on its feet....E. Allen: You may be the
fire demon, but we are the fire engine. . . .J.G. (Lon-
don) : Patriotic moan doesn’t hit us in the cash-
box .... Dubbluell: Rejected sorrowfully. You have
not worked it up to concert-pitch.... W.F.L: Cheer-
ful stuff. One stanza:
He lies my old Kelpie with his paws on the fender,
While I sit by my girl of the feminine gender ;
She is witty and clever and her eyes shine so bright
When she looks at me sideways and says, “Bill,
where was you last night?”
~..D. E. Payten: Bare, unfurnished verse
T.J.M.: An old idea, and your treatment of it is
pretty savage at times.... Tambo: Can’t allow you
to dump your grief here. .. . J.J.F.: “The Hospital”
in need of the usual subsidy... . E.A.: Yes, many
sirens have to comb their bright green hair when
times are hard. An inferior dye, if not frequently
renewed, makes hair so green that cows have to be
beaten off with umbrellas. .. .A. Devine: You have
most successfully concealed your meaning. .. .M.J.S.:
Several holes in it M.W. (Tas.) : Treatment
feeble..... E. Wilder: Unsuitable Homo (V.):
Desperate, but ineffectual, struggle with an idea....
J.A.T.: In one verse, at leaM, you appear to be
unconsciously following “The Banjo.” Common-
place work.... Bury the Pen: And the blunted
hatchet, too, if you please. .. .J.H.R.: No use....
j.A.T.: It looks like an old story which has been
crammed somehow into verse. Anyhow, old or new,
it isn’t comfortable between its rhymes. .. .S.J.D.:
Rough work.... Franklin: At first glance we thought
the title was “Lying Sunbeams,” and we waded into
it with interest, only to find that it was the same
old jog-trot sunset jingle. Another glance at the
title showed that the title was really “Dying Sun-
beams.” The poem then set in the basket, and all
was g100m.... Ichabod : The Victorian farmer’s verse
is harrowing; but if the farmer will keep his
double-barrelled “Yes” by him for use the next
time the States Frights crowd sits on the fioundary-
fe.nce, all will be forgiven.... Four-Fingers: No bite
in the snake story.... Sheoalt: Regret unsuitable. ..
15.E.8.: Can’t find room for your roses and dew-
drops. .. .Jacko: Careful guide-book verse. We will
tour with you for five verses:
PORT ARTHUR, TASMANIA.
Behold those ruined walls and falling bricks!
That relics of a shameless bygone hell
That still must tell in silent words
Some mysteries of the darksome killing cell.
Steaming up the harbor from the south
The Penitentiary braves its rotting wall,
And looks so calmly o’er a calmer bay
As if to contradict the hell it was withall.
But look beyond, upon the hill above
The hospital still holds up its ruined bust
And shows its sandstone pillars to a rising sun
Which fails to brighten where to dust.
So many wretches were painfully reduced
That many hosts have passed through that black door
Beyond which lies the flogging yard
Whose triangles and “cats” are now no more.
We descend across the English oak-lined creek
By terraced metal slopes and reach at last
The Asylum whose rusting clock still chimes
The hours—much shorter now than in the past.
....Vanner: This paper isn’t big enough to allow
pars, to be acknowledged. When rubber gets down
to 3]d. per lb. the thing may be possible
Papuan No. 2: It would get us about five years if
it isn’t true; and we’ve only your say so. . . .Toosie:
Last year-book gives it as 1,042,997, including Maoris
and inhabitants of Cook and other islands ; exclusive
of Maoris and islanders, 960,642 ; whites and Maoris
in the Dominion, 1,030,657..... .John S.: Don’t
recommend him.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CONTRIBUTORS.
A.S.A.: You’re 18, are you? Well, let us hear
from you when you’re 25.... .Chipper: Drawings
rubbish; jokes disinfected... .1.W.W.: Dumped....
Whoa: It is so ancient a joke that nowadays it
always points out the soft places in the basket to
the moderately old jokes—the ones that haven’t
been thrown in there more than two or three hundred
times.... .G.R.F.: Better get work Stapleton:
Good, bold start. Keep going W.G.C.: Too
small a' fish to make a meal of; only big enough
now to use as bait —and that, by the way, was how
he was used.
‘ ‘ Ague ” : Could a politician have said sc
much without really saying anything :
“ Yes, Mrs. Riley, you know what you are, and I know
what you are, and everyone in this street knows what
you are —everybody knows what you are, and that’s what
you are ! ”
I decided not to call for the census papers that
day.
“Albatross” has varied luck :
I w’as sitting on the cliffs with my legs hanging over
the edge. Beneath my dangling feet stretched the in-
finite Ocean. It was morning; a kindly sun was
shining dowm from an altitude of about 15 degrees, and
his rays had fashioned a silver motor track on the ocean
highway. The sea was blue —the bluest I had ever seen
—and the silence could not have been more profound. I
was very happy ; and no wonder ! I had got a letter
from my owners saying they were satisfied I had not
been to blame for the loss of my last ship, and had
appointed me to the command of a fine new vessel at
£4OO a year. Moreover, they proposed to make me some
recompense for the six months I had been idle ! With a
wild singing in my heart, I looked out across the inviting
sea. As I did so, I saw- a steamer’s smoke on the horizon.
The silence was so intense that I could distinctly'hear
the throbbing of her engines and the thrashing of her
propeller even before her hull was visible. Onward she
came, and I saw that she was heading for the cliffs.
What was the skipper doing? Was he mad? I longed
to shout out a warning, hut my tongue cleaved to m v
mouth. I knew she was rushing to her destruction, and
I could not warn her ! She was close in now', and here
was I sitting helpless, speechless ! Ah !... I struggled
and then I covered m.y ears with my hands to shutout
the crash.. .. Will that scene ever be effaced from my
memory? With a shriek from her siren that my hands
could not shut out, the steamer disappeared ! In my
agony I rolled off the seat. I had missed that d d
train again !


v
/ft
AW
/+
X
f i?
\a
fix
--' -V
k.V'
fcj@>_ f^>,
!m
Htt 1 I I?* I
ST*
<fc
vl-—.
Sr vl O
/ \
««
V*
.-T
I/A')///
•Virt
*.\
WP
W-
■i^hy^ v
%
&
\
/iSs^
M" A
,aA
(lftA\ %
, V /(/7
w\ J
vHuW 1 7
I
Quality upheld by
unbroken family
management since
1820.
In square bottles.
Johnnie Walker
RED LABEL—over 10 years old
Johnnie Walker
WHITE LABEL—over 6 years old
There is no need to hunt tor
o
JOHN WALKER & SONS, Ltd., Scotch Whisky Distillers, KILMARNOCK.
And at SYDNEY a d M L BOURNE.
ENO S ‘FRUIT SALT’
A HOUSEHOLD REMEDY FOR
All Functional Derangements of the Liver, Tempo-
rary Congestion arising from Alcoholic Beverages,
Errors in Diet (Eating or Drinking), Biliousness,
Sick Headache, Giddiness, Vomiting, Heartburn,
Sourness of the Stomach, or Constipation. It is
a Refreshing and Invigorating Beverage, most
Invaluable to Travellers, Emigrants, Sailors, and
Residents in Tropical Climates.
Eno'S ' FRUIT Salt ’ assists the Functions of the Liver, Bowels, Skin, and Kidneys
by Natural Means. There is no doubt that, where it has been taken in the earliest
stages of a disease, it has, in innumerable instances, prevented a serious illness.
CAUTlON.— Examine the Capsule and see that it is marked ENO'S ‘FRTJIT SALT,’
otherwise you have the sincerest form of fIattery—IMITATION,
Prepared only by J. C. ENO. Ltd., * FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS, London,
S.E., Eng., by J. C. ENO’S Patent.
Sold by Chemists and Stores everywhere.
Pre-eminent
as the Queen of Dress Fabrics is the
LOUIS
VELVETEEN,
with all its charming lustrous
finish; draping exquisitely to suit
the clinging fashions of the day—
yet sold at a price within the
reach of all.
DO NOT TOLERATE A SUBSTITUTE.
Every Yard you buy
should be stamped L*o'U*l*S
The “Number One ” Chicago
HAND HORSE CLIPPING MACHINE.
*
It’s easy to see why clipping- a horse improves his health,
prolongs his life and increases his value.
“ Just think,” says a leading authority on horse breed-
ing, “how it would feel to be on your bed with clothes
wringing wet with gummy sweat. Too often, after sweat-
ing freely, a horse stands all night wet to the very skin,
using up, to dry his thick hair, all the heat that should
be going to recuperate his tired body. Thus he loses
strength steadily. Whereas, if the clippers should be run
over him, he would dry off in 20 minutes, and stand warm
and comfortable all night. But that isn’t all. When a
horse takes a chill from sleeping in his wet coat, rheu-
matism, pneumonia and kidney disease result, and the
horse is ruined.”
That’s why you need a “ Number One ” Hand Horse
Clipping Machine.
PRICE—
With Ball Bearings and All
Steel Flexible Shaft
40-
With Roller Bearings...
35/-
Sole Agents for New South Wales
and Queensland—
252
HOLDSWORTH, MACPHERSON 8 CO.,
George Street,
SYDNEY.
Briscoe 8 Co. Ltd., Melbourne. Geo. P. Harris, Scarfe 8 Co. Ltd., Adelaide and Perth.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original and Only Genuine
Convincing:
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
-1/I *, 2/9 & 4/6
h
Checks and
arrests Fever,
Croup, Ague.
The Best
Remedy
known for
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITiS.
Acts like a charm in
DIARRHOEA, and is the only
specific in CHOLERA and DYSENTERY.


FIFTY-FIRST REPORT of
The Royal Bank of Queensland
LIMITED.
The T ?n fc ? r ° fits for the Half -Year, after deducting Rebate on
.Bills, Interest on Deposits, providing for Contingencies,
payment of all charges, and reducing valuation of Bank
r r urmture and Fittings, amounted to ... ... ...£l5 137
To which is to be added the amount carried forward from iast
Half - Year 1,048 8 10
5 9
Giving an available balance of
Which has been distributed as follows :
To Dividend for the Half-Year at the rate of 5 per cent, per
annum nil C!h.. 1
.£16,185 14 7
annum on all Shares
~ Interest on Capital prepaid (at the rate of the Dividend)
~ Income Tax
~ Reserve Fund ’
~ Contingency Account
~ Balance carried forward
12,693 6
348 11
704 9
1,000 0
1,000 0
439 7
During the Half-Year a branch has been opened at Goomeri.
By Order of the Board,
£16,185 14 7
EDVVD. D. DAY, General Manager.
AGGREGATE BALANCE-SHEET
THE ROYAI BANK OF QUEENSLAND LIMITED, MARCH 31, 1911.
LIABILITIES.
Capital—
-69,999 £9 Ordinary Shares £629,991 0 0
Less uncalled liability of
£2 10s. per Share .. 174,997 10 0
Capital prepaid being- un-
called liability on Or-
dinary Shares.. . ..
5,408 £lO Preference
Shares fully paid
Reserve Fund
Profit and Loss ..
Bills Payable
Deposits and other Liabilities
11.003 7 6
1,442,591 15 5
£2,068,497 17 6
ASSETS.
Coin on hand and Cash at
Bankers ..
Bullion
Australian Notes
Queensland Government
Treasury Notes ..
Government Stock ..
Bank Premises, Furniture, etc.
Bills discounted, and all other
debts due to the Bank ..
£423,696 16 10
14,538 13 3
33,765 0 0
38,885 0 0
76,977 0 3
-£587,862 9 4
74,484 6 3
1,406,151 2 0
£2,068,497 17 6
THE BANK OF ADELAIDE.
FORTY-FIFTH ANNUAL REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS TO THE SHAREHOLDERS.
The Directors have pleasure in submitting herewith for the information of Shareholders the Balance-
sheet of the Bank as on the 27th March, 1911; also statements of Profit and Loss Account and the Reserve
Fund on that date.
The balance to credit of Profit and Loss is .. .. .. .. ..£76,485 13 9
which it is proposed to appropriate as follows:
To Reserve Fund (making it £430,000) .. ... .. .. £30,000
To Dividend at the rate of 10 per cent, per annum . . .. 25,000
■ 55,000 0 0 ,
Leaving a balance of .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. £ 21,485 13 9
to be carried forward.
An Interim Dividend at the rate of 10 per cent, per annum was paid in November last.
The 25,000 new Shares, the issue of which was authorised by the Shareholders on Ist June last,
were offered to the Shareholders at £6 per Share (£4 being Capital and £2 Premium). The Shares
have all been taken up and paid for, and the £4 per Share—£loo,ooo —has been added to the Bank’s
Capital, making it £500,000; and the Premium of £2 per Share—£so,ooo —-has been credited to
the Reserve Fund, making it £400,000.
Since last Report a Branch: of the Bank has been opened at Waikerie, and Agencies opened at
Blanchetown, Bowhill, Halbury, Monarto South, and Purnong, and the Agency at Meningie has been closed.
The General Annual Meeting will be held at No. 25 Waymouth Street, Adelaide, on Wednesday j
3rd May, 1911, at 11 o’clock a.m., at which the Shareholders will be called upon to elect Two Directors
in place of the Hon. Sir Jenkin Coles, K.C.M.G., M.P., and Arthur Waterhouse, Esq., who retire by
rotation, but, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
The Shareholders will also have to elect Two Auditors for the ensuing year, and to fix the
remuneration of the retiring Auditors. By order of the Boar(1 of DirectorS)
R. S. YOUNG, Assistant Manager.
BALANCE-SHEET ON MARCH 27, 1911.
LIABILITIES.
To Capital paid up £500,000 0 0
„ Reserve Fund . 400,000 0 0
„ Profit and Loss 76,485 13 9
£976,485 13 9
~ Notes in Circulation .. .. 228,477 0 0
~ Bills in Circulation .. . . 477,439 0 7
„ Balances due on other Batiks .. 7,150 0 6
„ Deposits 4,684,502 12 8
„ Interest accrued on Fixed De-
posits and Rebate on Bills Dis-
counted . .. .. .. 39,550 8 8
£6,413,604 16 2
ASSETS.
By Specie, Bullion,
and Cash Bal-
£2,402,455 19 6
„ Remittances in transitu .. 210,653 13 6
„ Bank Premises and Furniture . . 88*205 7 6
„ Bills Receivable and all other
Advances .. .. .. 3,712,289 15 8
£6,413,604 16 2
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT FROM MARCH 28, 1910, TO MARCH 27, 1911.
below .. £25,000 0 0
„ Dividend in May,
1910 .. 20,000 0 0
„ Dividend in No-
vember, 1910 . 20,000 0 0
£65,000 0 0
„ Balance 76,485 13 9
£141,485 13 9
By Balance, March 28, 1910
„ Net Profit, in-
cluding Re-
coveries, and
after making
provision for
bad and doubt-
ful Debts, In-
terest accrued
on Fixed De-
posits and Re-
bate on Bills
Discounted and
Expenses a t
Head Office and
50 Branches, in-
cluding Salar-
ies, Rents, etc. £87,207 15 ?
~ Less Land and
Income Tax,
£3477 16s. 4d.;
Note Tax,
£4082 10s. .. 7,560 6 4
.. £61,838 4 5
79,647 9 4
£141,485 13 9
reserve fund.
To Balance at this date .. .. £400,000 0 0
£400,000 0 0
By Balance, March 28, 1910
„ Transfer from Profit and Loss,
May, 1910
„ Premium of £2 per share on
25,000 New Shares issued ..
£325,000 0 0
25,000 0 0
50,000 0 0
f.ano non n n
R. S. YOUNG, Assistant Manager.
R. T. MAHNKE, Accountant.
A. GEO. DOWNER
JAMES HARVEY '
H. C. E. MUECIvE,
JENKIN COLES
ARTHUR WATERHOUSE,
Directors.
We hereby certify that we have compared the above Balance-sheet with the Books and Accounts of
the Bank of Adelaide for the year ending March 27 1911 that we have counted the cash and examined
the bills on hand at the Bead Office (the assets and liabilities at the Branches other than London being
taken on the certificates of the Managers and Accountants of the respective Branches, and those of the
London Branch as cabled by the London Manager, and that it is a correct abstract of the same.
Adelaide, April 19, 1911.
J. S. LLOYD, F.1.A.5.A., \
W. L. WARE, F.1.A.5.A., /Auditors.
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS OF
The National Bank of Australasia Limited.
1. The Balance-Sheet of the Bank as on 31st March last, and the Profit and Loss Account for the Half-Year which
then terminated, are now submitted to the shareholders.
2. The profit, after deducting- expenses of management, and the other items specified in the Profit and Loss
Account,
Amounted to . £83,772 0 6
Deduct note, income and land taxes in Australia and Great Britain 9,956 16 11
Net profit ; £73,815 3 7
■ Balance from previous half-year .. 8,482 9 11
Leaving available £82,297 13 6
which it is proposed to appropriate as follows :
Grant to Officers’ Provident Fund £2,000 0 0
Transfer to Reserve Fund Account (making it £265,000) .. .. .. .. .. .. 20,000 o o
Reduction of Bank Premises ... .. .. .. .. .. .. 5,000 0 0
Dividend at the rate of 6 per cent, per annum on Preference Shares .. .. .. .. 9,173 8 0
Dividend at the rate of 6 per cent, per annum on Ordinary Shares 35*773 4 ()
Carry forward 10,351 1 6
£82.297 13 6
3. During the half-year Branches were opened at Lalbert and Nyah, in Victoria ; Tumby Bay, in Soutli Australia ■
Corowain New South Wales ; and Wongan Hills and Wyalcatchem, in Western Australia. The office at Lindenow
was continued as an agency. An agency was opened at Raywood, in Victoria.
4. The Ordinary General Annual Meeting will be held at the Head Office of the Bank, Collins Street, Melbourne
on Wednesday, 3rd May, at noon. ’
5. The shareholders will be called on to elect two directors on that occasion, in lieu of Sir William Austin Zeal
K.C. M.G., and the Honorable Joseph Major Pratt, who retire by rotation. There are no other candidates. They will
also be required to appoint two auditors.
By order of the Board of Directors,
The National Bank of Australasia Limited.
Head Office : Melbourne, 21st April, 1911.
JOHN G. ADDISON, Chief Manager.
Balance=Sheet "he National Bank of Australasia Limited,
FOR THE HALF-YEAR ENDED 31st MARCH, 1911.
Dr. (Including London Office to 25th February, 1911, and Western Australian Branches to 13th March, 1911.) Cr.
CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES.
To Proprietors’ Capital—
-30,578 preference
shares paid in
money to £lO per
share, £305,780;
238,488 ordinary
shares paid up to
£5 per share,
£1,192,440., ..£1,498,220 0 0
To Reserve Fund Ac-
count.. .. .. 245,000 0 0
To Profit and Loss
Account •• 82,297 13 6
To Notes in circulation
To Bills in circulation
To Government De-
posits—
Not bearing- inter-
est, £105,492/11/8;
bearing interest,
£543,170/15/11 ...
Other Deposits—
Not bearing inter-
est, £4,122,823/7/3 ;
bearing interest,
£5,783,238/19/8 ..
To interest accrued
and rebate on cur-
rent bills
To balances due to
other banks..
£340,101 10
1,357,161 16
£1,825,517 13 6
648,663 7 7
9,906,062 6 11
109,843 18 7
131,830 2 3
12,493,663 1 10
£14,319,180 15 4
To contingent liability, as per contra.. £218,856 14 11
ASSETS.
By coin, bullion, Aus-
tralian notes, and
cash at bankers .. £2,377,455
By Government, mu-
nicipal, and other
public stocks, deben-
tures and funds .. 513,382
By bills and remit-
tances in transitu .. 1,158,068
By notes and bills of
Other banks.. .. 30,586
By balances due from
other banks.. .. 94,007
By duty stamps .. 4,795
13 11
15 10
16 0
5 3
7 4
0 9
By real estate, consisting of bank
premises
By other real estate
By bills discounted and other advances,
exclusive of provision for bad and
doubtful debts
£4,175,295 19 1
420,155 2 «
48,165 6 2
9,672,564 7 4
£14,319,180 15 4
By liability, in the form of a guarantee
of certain shire and municipal deben-
tures (Victoria) sold in London, and
which are being duly provided for by
sinking funds, in terms of the act
authorising their issue, £76,600; and
liabilities of customers and others on
letters of credit and drafts, £142,256
14/11 ;as per contra .. .. £218,856 14 11
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
To expenses at head office, 169 brandies,
and 42 agencies .. £82,809 17 11
To note, income, and land taxes .. . 9,956 16 11
To balance .. 82,297 13 6
£175,064 8 4
By balance brought forward .. .. £8,482 911
By gross profits, including recoveries, less
rebate on bills current, interest paid
and accrued on deposits, repairs to
premises, and rent .. .. .. .. 166,581 18 5
£175,064 8 4
RESERVE FUND ACCOUNT.
To balance
£245,000 0 0
£245,000 0 0
By balance last half-year £230,000 0 0
To transfer from Profit and Loss .. .. 15,000 0 0
£245,000 0 0
J. G. ADDISON, Chief Manager,
NOTE.—The customary certificates of the Directors and the Chief Manager, also the report of the Auditors, to
comply with the Companies’ Act, 1910—Victoria—appear on the Official Report.
MEDLOW BATH, Blue Mountains, N.S.W.
MAJESTIC HOTEL.
COMPLETE arrangements have been made by the new proprietor (Mr. W. H. Burgess), late of the Grand
Hotel, Melbourne, for the comfort of visitors during the forthcoming season.
Medlow Bath is an ideal resort. The crisp mountain air is a delight, and the mountains, in their
Spring garb, appeal to lovers of the picturesque. Arrangements can be made at the Hotel for motors,
carriages and riding tours.
Motor parties can be arranged any time to start from the City Office.—or your own residence—direct
to the Majestic Hotel.
To pedestrians Medlow offers ever-varying attractions. The views in the mountains are superb, and
hours can be spent in walks through the Hotel grounds.
Hot-air pipes are laid in many rooms. Daily Motor trips are made from the Hotel to Jenolan Oaves.
Further particulars can be obtained from the Hotel, or from the Sydney Offices, 42 Oastlereagh Street.
W. H. BURGESS, Proprietor.
h
Choose the best when buying
Socks, Stockings, and Under-
wear—
Buy
♦9
With you have
unshrinkable, are all-
England.
But you have more than this.
The finish is distinctive—it cannot be imitated. It im-
parts that soft silky feeling which is so comfortable in wear.
*J#2Stockings, Socks, and Underwear for Men, Ladies, and Children.
In all prices Of Men’s Outfitters, Drapes, and Stores. If your
dealer does not stock he can obtain it from his wholesale house.
In case of difficulty write for “Jason” booklet and name of nearest
Agent to—
Aa9
Jason Hosiery Co , Leicester, England.
<i>
the guarantee that they are
Australian-wool, and made in
Xshe BULLETIN POST CARDS
PACKET OF TWELVE 6d. PACKET CF TEN sd,


PRELIMINARY announcement.
Subdivision of the Famous ®. Well-Known
FELTON ESTATE,
Darling Downs,
Queensland.
For 26 years the home of the late Hon Jas Tysot ML O the place which he called
“THE GARDEN OF AUSTRALIA.
Situated close to the Sydney-Brisbane Railway line, 18 miles south of Toowoomba.
Comprising 34-,500 Acres Freehold.
THE AUSTRALIAN ESTATES AND MORTGAGE 00., Ltd., Brisbane, will SELL
Bi PUBLIC AUCTION, some time in JUNE NEXT.
In blocks of from 80 to 3000 acres (which includes the Homestead portion).
Southbrook Railway Station only 3 miles from the Estate, Broxburn Railway Sta-
tion 5 miles, Pittsworth Railway Station 7 miles, Railway Station b miles,
Greenmount Railway Station 4 miles, Nobby Railway Station, 6 miles, and Clitton Rail-
way Station 10 miles. „ , , .. „ . ,
Cheese and Butter Factories at Pittsworth and Southbrook. Butter factory at
Clifton, and Cheese Factories at Cambooya and Greenmount.
This is, without douot, the Best Property on the Darling Downs, and Was one ot the
earliest properties made Freehold by the late Hon. Jas. Tyson when he had the 1 ick of
ifltc Whole of the Go'U/Tttvy»
The whole of the Estate is admirably adapted for Dairying, Lucerne-growing, Wheat-,
Barley, Oats and Potatoes, and a large area of the Country is Ready for the I lough.
Ideal Fattening, Breeding and Lamb-raising Country.
Watered by Hodgson’s Creek, a never-failing stream running through the centre of
the Property.
Sub-Artesian Water easily obtained all over the Property at from 30 to 80 feet.
Rainfall averages over 30 inches per annum.
NOTE THE REMARKABLE TERMS.
Terms 15 per cent, deposit, no further principal for 10 years; Interest at 5 per cent,
payable half-yearly. . . , ... ...
Recognised Agents, buying for or influencing buyers to purchase, will receive one-halt
commission.
Buyers requiring any further information, Lithographs, etc., are requested to com-
municate at once with the undersigned, who will extend every facility to enable them to
inspect.
FURTHER DETAILS WILL BE ADVERTISED LATER.
The Australian Estates 8 Mortgage Company Limited,
Auctioneers,
Brisbane, Q.
W/
tlOfc
HALF-GUINEA WATCH, 3/11
We want every smoker to know how srood our
“ Corn Cob ” Tobacco and “ King of All ”
Cigars are—and offer tViis 10/6 Watch on the terms following : —The Tobacco is the finest
quality you could wish for, and the Cigars are mild and of fine aroma, in light, oV heavy weights.
CIGARS : Pour for 1/- ; Sample Box of 10, 2/6 ;50 for 9/6 ; Box of 100, 18/6. All Post Free.
TOBACCO : 2oz. “ Corn Cob,” packet, cut light or dark, lOd. ; Watch, S/ll ; postage 6d.
Total, 6/3. Inter-State, 2d. extra. 4oz. “Corn Cob,” plug, light or dark, 1/4; the
“Corn Cob ” Watch. 3/11; postage 6d. ; total 5/9. Inter-State, 3d. extra. Per lib.
boxes, 6/- ; 2oz. packets, 6/6. Inter-State, 3d. extra. The Watch only, 10/6 post free.
Write for Our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
Established 30 years.
/•N'W
BUY R PLUM! sr™™,
WE k,now if. because we are practical Hairdressers, and
usp it daily in our own Saloons. Has a silver steel
blade that keeps its keen edge and hardly ever needs
stropping. We guarantee to keep the PLUM in order for
two years, free of cost—that’s what we think of it.
The “PLUM”
10/6
Have you a Mous-
tache ? The Craig
& Altken Trainer
shapes it nicely.
Worn at night.
2/6 post free.
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6,
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-
PLUM Razor, In Case, 10/6.
Pair in Case, 21/-
The Plum Razor Strop, 10/6 and 7/8
Other good kinds from 3/6 each.
Universal Shaving- Soap, 6d.
Razoleo Lightning Sharpener, 6d.
All the above Post Free.
We Grind and Set Razors, 1/- each.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
Established
30 Years.
THE RIFLE FOR OUTDOOR BOYS, THE
WINCHESTER
.22 CALIBER REPEATER
Handling Short, Long and Long Rifle Cartridges.
This rifle, the model 1906, will, without change
or readjustment, handle either of these three cart-
ridges, which makes it equally well adapted for
target or small game shooting. It takes down
easily and packs in a small compass. It is with-
out doubt, the best value in a rifle ever offered.
A BQY’S GUN IN PRICE, BUT A MAN’S GUN IN QUALITY
Winchester Guns and Ammunition—The Red w Brand—are Sold Everywhere .
w
ĥ
w
Amusements.
|_|ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
** Lessee and Manager : J. 0. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45 SHARP.
Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON presents
“The Greatest of all Pantomimes,”
JACK and THE BEANSTALK
PLAN AT PALING’S.
-f-HEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
" ' Lessee & Manatrer .. J. 0. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
LAST SIX NIGHTS 1 - LAST SIX NIGHTS !
EVERY EVENING at 7.45,
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY
OUli mTss - GIBB.'s.
RESPLENDENT REVELRY, SENSATIONAL GOWN-
ING, GAY MUSIC and LOTS OF FUN.
Box Plan at Paling's. Prices as usual.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee: FRANK MUSGROVE.
CLARKE and MEYN'ELL’S GREAT DRAMATIC
PRODUCTION,
in conjunction with George Willoughby,
Last Nights of the Most Sensational Play of Modern Times,
THE WOMAN IN THE CAS I*.
SATURDAY, MAY 13,
Clarke & Meynell’s Entirely New English Opera Co. in
THE GAY GORDONS.
Box Plan at ELVY’S.
A DELPHI THEATRE.
Direction and Management, Gkoiige Marlow, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
The “Most Remarkable, Sensational and Picturesque
Bedroom Drama” Svdnev has ever seen,
THE BAD GIRL OF THE FAMILY.
As so Brilliantly Interpreted and Magnificently Mounted
by the GEORGE MARLOW DRAMATIC CO.
Popular Prices—3s., 2s. and Is.
Box Plan at Elvy’s. Reserves 4s.
-pOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
MONDAY, MAY 15
(EVERY AFTERNOON AND EVENING).
SOUSA
IAI
dl
PLAN AT CARNEGIE’S, 80 KING STREET,
Prices—7/6, 6/-, 3/-, 2/-
LAST THREE NIGHTS LAST THREE NIGHTS
WIRTH BROS.’ CIRCUS,
GREATEST SHOW ON EARTH.
PRINCE ALFRED PARK, SYDNEY.
LAST THREE NIGHTS AT 8 O’CLOCK.
Doors Open One Hour Earlier.
EVERYTHING NEW.
ALL NEW ARTISTS.
LIZZIE. LIZZIE,
The Blood-Sweating: Hippopotamus.
LAST MATINEE-SATURDAY.
SPECIAL LECTURES ON WILD ANIMALS FOR
SCHOOL CHILDREN.
PRICES : 3/-, 2/-, 1/-; CHILDREN HALF-PRICE, except
to Gallery, which is full price to everyone.
RESERVED CHAIRS, 4/- BOX PLAN AT PALING’S.
UYCEUM
EVERY EVENING AT 8
THE.
—L_ EVER
MATH NELS-WEDNESDAYS SATURDAYS AMO HOLIDAYS AT 2 JO.
C PENCE RS-TFeaTREKOPE C°
J PICTURES
-» rt&E SUPERIOR TO /TLL OTffER-S. <»
Popular Prices Plats at Pauncs.
The glaciarium, Sydney
Opposite Railway Station—Where all Id. trams stop.
Also PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
BIGGER, BRIGHTER and BETTER THAN EVER,
WEST’S PICT U RES,
“BEST OF ALL.”
Proprietors—Wests, Limited. Mgr. Dir. : T. J. Wkst.
DE GROEN'S VIOE-REGAL ORCHESTRA.
6d. to 2/- Plan at Nicholson’s (Fee, 6d. extra).
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor & Manager —Mr. Harry Rickards
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS
DELINO, in an Intrepid Wire Act.
BLACK and WHITE, Lady Novelty Acrobats.
MISS PEGGY PRYDE, London’s Favorite Comedienne.
TOM DAWSON. VAUDE and VERNE.
And a GREAT COMPANY of Established Favorites.
PRICES—3s., 2s. and Is. Plan at Paling’s.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
MISS FLORENCE CROMER CHALLIS,
England’s Clever Young Comedienne.
EUNICE and ZEN A, Instrumentalists.
THE ZANFRELLAS, Equilibrists.
PEREZOFFS (7), Comedy Jugglers.
AUSTRALIAN DARIOS.
Plan at Allan's. .tST PRICES —35., 25., Is.
JHEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
CLARKE & MEYNELL’S “ARCADIANS”
CO. in
THE BELLE OE BRITTANY
FAREWELL APPEARANCES OF THE COMPANY.
Plans at Allan’s. PRICES AS USUAL.
THE KINO’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE
Sole Lessee and Manager : Wim.iam Andkuson.
SATURDAY NEXT, MAY 6,
RETURN OF
WM. ANDERSON’S NEW DRAMATIC ORGANISATION,
in the Great Australian Drama,
THE SQUATTER’S DAUGHTER.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
PRICES— 35., 2s. and Is.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRc. MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager: J. C. Wiw.iamsos, Ltd.
LAST SIX NIGHTS OF
J. C. WILLIAMSON'S NEW COMIC OPERA CO.
—IN —
THE MERRY WIDOW,
Reappearance of MISS FLORENCE YOUNG.
Plan at Allan’s. PRICES—S/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/-.
pRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
AN ENTHUSIASTIC SUCCESS.
MRS. FRANCIS HODGSON BURNETT’S Striking Drama,
The Dawn of To-Morrow.
Presented by
KATHERINE GREY, WILLIAM DESMOND,
and an Augmented and Brilliant Cast.
PRICES AS USUAL. Plan at Allan’s.
“LINSEED COMPOUND” —Trade Mark of Kay’s
Compound Essence of Linseed for Coughs and Colds.
%*# E S T'B PALACE, MELBOURNE.
the best WEST’S PICTURES, THK BEST
OF AIX, LIMITED. OF ALL.
Managing- Director : Mr. T. J. West.
NIGHTLY AT 8.
Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays & All Holidays at 2.30.
Thf. Greatest Pictorial Enterprise in tiib’ World.
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
Any Moving- Picture Worthy of Note always to be seen at
WEST’S PICTURES. Complete Change every week.
Prices—6d. to 2s. Box Plan at Glen s.
The glaciarium, Melbourne
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J.&N.TAIT’S
PICTURES.
ALL THE LATEST PICTURES from Europe & America.
A COMPLETE CHANGE WEEKLY. Prices-2/-, 1/6,
1/-, 6ri. Matinees—Wednesday. Saturday, All Holidays.
WIRTHS OLYMPIA..
. EVERY EYENING AT 8
M ati nees -Wednesdays . Saturdays and Holidays at 2 30.
CPENCER'SIHeaTRE3COPE<?.
J PICTURES
'S HRE SUPER.!OH TO PI.L OTHERS. »@
Popular Prices —Plah as
LYRIC theatre, Chapel Street, Prahran, Vic.
EVERY NIGHT at 8. MATINEE, SATURDAY, at 2.K<»
THE FAMOUS “NON-FLICKER”
PHOTOPLAYS
on the Marvellous “Mack” Screen, together «iui the
Superb LYRIC ORCHESTRA. 6d. to 2s. Plans at
Allan’s, C. M. Read’s and the Lyric Theatre Caf6.
Business Announcements.
QRE ME LA FRANCE.
french liquid cosmetic.
ytxm
An Exquisite Lotion for Beau-
tifying: and (fivingr Tone and
Brilliance to the Com-
plexion. It is most
beneficial to those
whose skin is show-
ing: a tendency to
become livid or dis-
colored. It softens
a hard, dry skin.
1 Perfectly harmless
to the most delicate
skin. Price 2/6,
Posted 3/- Obtain-
able from MADAME
LEIGH, Ladies’ Hair-
dresser and Hair worker,
23 The Block Arcade,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Wholesale: DUERDIN AND SAINSBURY, Melbourne.
Ten Special
Amberol Records
ALMOST FREE!
WITH every purchase of an Amberol Attach-
ment, ranging in price from 26/6 to 43/=,
according to the style of Phonograph to
be fitted, the purchaser receives ten Amberol
Records. These are Special Records, confined
exclusively to this offer, and cannot be secured in
any other way.
We are making this offer simply to acquaint
Phonograph owners with the advantage of having
the Amberol Attachment on their instrument's,
thereby doubling the entertainment that the
Phonograph will give at a slight additional cost,
and at practically no additional cost for the first
Amberol Records they own.
Call on the Edison dealer nearest you to-day,
and ask for the special folder giving details of this
offer ; also list of the Amberol Records, w'hich
cannot be obtained in any other way, or write us
direct for a free copy.
National Phonograph Co. of Australia, Ltd.
(Wholesale Only),
Dept. 8., 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
jssWell, of course
Anything worth doing is
worth doing well —so for
the antiseptic cleansing your
teeth need every day, use
CALVERT’S
Carbolic Tooth Powder
Local Chemists and Stores sell it.
F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester, Fnfif.
TUI NAUNTON MUSIC BOOK
full ol good tunes that anyone can play
n3y 6/3
pay post aft
try without any knowledge
of music. No trouble, no
difficulty. There has not
been one failure. You begin
light off jilayjng Tunes.
Everybody delighted. Why
pay Guineas for lessons when this Large Book for £»/3
teaches you everything. No teacher needed. Obtainable only
from THE UNION CO. 299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
MOVING
The Pocket Cinematographs cauiV
great fun. Powerful magnifying;
lenses enlarge the pretty pic-\
tures until the observer views !,
them with wonder. He turns
the button “ to make the figure work,” and is
startled by the “dissolving view,” receiving a
jet of water on his face. Price 1/9 each, or
Two (with different pictures) for 3/-, we pay
carriage. ' The Union Co.,
299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
m
t/9
each.
Two,’
V^V
ħ
The MYSTIC ORACLE
or the Complete Fortune-Teller ana
Dream Book. Discloses the secrets ov
fortune-tellers and clairvoyants, and tells\
you how to forecast your own destiny ancY
those of others. Explains the mysteries
of astrology, with a list of lucky and un-
lucky days, Palmistry or hand reading,
Fortune-telling by Cards, etc,- also,
charms, spells and incantations,th* inter-
pretation of Dream* and tl*e Book ot
Fate, Witch’s Chain. Magic Rose,
Cake Charm, e»«, Eight Pence. oosimY.


Shipping;.
" P. and O.
BRANCH
SERVICE
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
SALOON ACCOMMODATION, AMIDSHTPS,
CONVERTED INTO VERY SUPERIOR
ONE CLASS.
LONDON £l6, £lB and £2O.
CAPETOWN and NATAL £IS 135., £l5 15s. and £l7 17s.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON. LTD.. 7 Bent St.
Melbourne Aoknts : JOHN SANDERSON & CO.
11l William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : QEO. WILLS & CO.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAND.
ORVIETO .. Tuin-Serew
OSTERLEV
OTRANTO
OTWAY
ORSOVA .. „
ORONTES . „
OMR. AII .. „
OPHIR .. „ ..
ORAMA (Building - )
12,130 Reg-d. Tons.
12.129 „
12.124 „ ’
12,077 „
12,036 ~
9.023 ~
8.282
6,814 ;;
13,000
Kitted with Wireless Telegraphy. New and luxurious
12,000-ton Steamers. Cabines-de-ltixe ; State-rooms, with
bedsteads; Single Berth Rooms, Private Bathrooms;
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Sailing every fortnight from BRISBANE. SYDNEY
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, and FREMANTLE. ’
ORIENT S.N. CO., Eta.,
l2 Martin Brack, Sydney.
Banking;, Public Companies, &c.
of ||orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J P. CANNY.
Local Director:
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 4 QUEEN VICTORIA STREET, E.C.
Manager: R. R. I,OYE.
Bankers: THE LONDON COUNTY & WESTMINSTER
BANK LTD.
BRANOTIES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Bank nf Hum Zualnnd.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
Total Capital Paid-up £2.000.000
Uncalled Capital £500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits £564,134
GRANTS DRAFTS
and Ireland, and other places.
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
transacts all other usual Banking
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
business.
THE
Australian Bank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL - - - £2,000 000
SUBSCRIBED £1,197,127
PAID-UP (31st December, 1910) - - £1,145^933
HEAD OFFICE—George and King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE—2 King William Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS—Sir William P. Manning, Kt., Chairman ;
Gkougk J. Sly, Esq., LL.D.; Ciias. 11. Myles, Esq. ;
Mark Sheldon, Esq. ; Arthur S. Barton, Esq.; Frank
N. Yaravood, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian C mimon wealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the world.
A. P. STEWART, General Manager.
Th« ...
Queensland National Bank,
Limited
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 413,484 810
Reserve (in Gov. Stock) 94,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock . 3,091,069 4 5
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 Specially Protected.
Directors: JAS. MILNE, Esq., Chairman; JAMES
MUNRO, Esq. ; Hon. A. J. OALLAN, Esq., M.L.C •
JOHN CAMERON, Esq. ; F. LORD, ILq.
General Manager— W. A’. RALSTON.
Branches—London, Sydney & throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. ~ .. .. £519,237 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. .. 161,384 0 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) .. 75.500 0 0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE. r
Gen. Mtigr.: Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr.: E. 11. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row. Cannon Street, London
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C. ’
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
The Qolonial [Qutual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance. Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,000,000.
Policies Issued 116.154—Assuring £33,888,510.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,727,264.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales :
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
» ; • Directors:
Ther-Mor., C J. Roberts. C.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon.-Ba Ucit Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER. Resident Secretary. .
Shipping.
REDUCED FARES
To EUROPE
BY
N ord D eutscher Ivloyd.
PASSENGERS Ixioked to Egypt, Naples,
Genoa, Algiers, Marseilles, Gibraltar,
London, Antwerp, and Bremen.
w Fitted with “ Wireless ” installation.
* Fitted with Gymnasium.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
REGULAR FOUR - WEEKLY MAIL
SERVICE from Sydney and Brisbane, via
New Guinea, by Twin-screw Steamers.
For Passage and Full Particulars apply to —
LOHMANN & CO., General Agents,
7 & 9 Bridge Street, Sydney ;
OSTERMEYER DEWEZ & VAN ROMPAOY, Melbourne ;
H. MCJECKE & CO., Adelaide;
L. RATAZZf & CO., Perth and Fremantle;
THOS. BROWN & SONS, Ltd., Brisbane and Townsville.
mRE BULLETIN POST CARDS—New
X Senes. IV., V.. VI. Packet of Twelve,
6d. ; Packet of Ten, sd. Forwarded Post Free
to any .address.
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth and
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLINC AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
o Fitted Wireless Telegraphy.
t One Class Only.
FARES— Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. ~ From £57 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Special Return Tickets available for outward passage
by Orient Line—£ll2 (First-class each way); £B5
(Second-class Orient).
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 30s.
SALOON Cabins on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tahles, fee.. on application.
DALCETY & COMPANY. LTD.. Agents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN, PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
h
Twin-screw Steamers.
PERSIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
May 10.
RUNIC, 12,fi00 tons, to sail about
June 7.
MEDIC and AFRIC to follow.
Fitted witli Wireless Telegraphy and
Submarine Signalling: Apparatus.
Only One Class of Accommodation.
FAKES— Capetown or Durban *l5 In 0 to £34 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
Melbourne . .. .. 1 10 0
New York, Boston, Quebec,
Montreal, &c. from 35 0 0
Pamphlets and all other information on application..
LUGGAGE Received Onlv on ])av of Sailiaig,
DALGETY & COMPANY, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
% YOUR WINTER
HOLIDAY.
CENI) for our Booklet, “Papua and the
Pacific Islands, llow to visit them?”
describing many delightful Island trips from
upwards. Most attractive as Winter
Holiday Cruises.
ĥ
BURNS, PHiLP & CO., LTD., 11 Bridge St., Sydney.
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES,
HEAD OFFICE: MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
MONEY TO LEND
To Farmers and Settlers from £5O to
repayable by instalments extending over 30 years
with right to repay loan without penalty.
Partial repayments on fu\orable terms.
Low rates of interest.
Valuation Fees on lowest scale.
On Investment np to £25,C00 for fixed terms not
exceeding five years on Freeholds orOrtifieated C.P’s.
and Associated C.I/s. Interest payable half-yearly.
Right to repay one-fifth of principal each year
allowed.
Lowest current rates of interest.
Full particulars and forms of application for loans obtain aide at. nnv Branch or Post Office Asrenev, or from
Crown Lands Agents and at the Head Office, MOOKK STREET'. SYDNEY. 11. Da vies.' Secretary.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
DIRECTORS
ħ
£2,817,660
£1,872,695
£2,817,660
£7,508,015
The Hon. O. K. MacKellar, M.L.C., Presiden
Senator The Hon. James Thomas Walker.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.C.
Auditors : Alfred Georjre Milson, Esq. ; William Harrinjrton Palmer Esq
Head Office—George St., Sydney. London Office-64 Old Broad St., EC
, With 319 Branches in all the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji and Papua (New South Wales 159 Victoria 37
Queensland 4/, S mth Australia 5, West Australia 11, New Zealand 54, Fiji 3, Papua 2, London !)• and
Airents and Correspondents throughout Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India, China Japan and
the East, Africa, Canada, the United, States, South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies ’
Cable remittances made to, and Drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills negotiated and
collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
I J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
FURS, Curios, Shells &, Opals
Tne Largest Store in Australasia.
Established 1860.
Tost & Rohu,
Taxidermists, Furriers, Tanners
and Island Curi j Dealers.
10, 12 & 14 MOORE STREET, Opp. C.P.0.,
SYDNEY. C ntral 2106.
And 605 CEORGE ST., SYDNEY. City 2374.
All Purchases Packed Free axd Labelled.
Large Showrooms and Museum, containing- thousand of
Australian Souvenirs. Inspection invited.,
lieturning- Boomerangs from 1/6 each. Carved Emu, Eggs-
-4/6 each.. Native Grass Dresses, 4/6. Bow and Six Arrows-”
2/6 the set. Spears, Clubs, Idols, Kara and Food Bowls-’
Shields, Masks, Stone Axes, Bark Belts, Tappa and Matting”
I’et Snakes, 20/- Snake Skin Ties and Watch Guards,.2/-eaclr-
Snake Skin Belts and Braces, 7/6 ; Slippers, 12/6,;. 800t5.,”
£l/2/6 per pair. Skins made up into Ladies’ Furs-,, Mats’
Hugs and Foot Warmers.
Stuffed Birds and Animals in Large Variety.
Collections of Cenuine Curios front £3.
The Commercial Bankincr Co.
&
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up £1,500,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 3,420,000 0 0
Reserve Capital 1,500,000 0 0
£4,420,000 0 0
■DIRECTORS:
George J. Cohkk, Esq. .. .. Chairman.
Hon. 11. E Rater, M.L.C. .. ~ Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C. A. J. Onslow Thompson, Esq.
Hon. James Burns, M.L.C.
Auditors : E. S. Cape, Esq., and F. \V. Hixson, Esq.
General Manager: T. A. Dibp.s.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
11. H. Massik.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
. Manager: A. J. Soutar.
Accountant: W. R. Sayers.
Secretary : M. S. Grant.
Branch Accountant: J. Clayton.
Inspectors:
W. C. B. Tiley, W. H. Pinhet.
London Office: 18 Bircliin - Lane.
Directors : F. H. Hangar, Esq. ; Hon. 11, S. Littleton ;
N. D. Cohen, Esq. ’
Manager, F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies' throughout the world.
THE OCEAN
Accident & Guarantee
Corporation Limited,
Ocean House, 21 Moore Street, Sydney.
I7IIRE, ACCIDENT, WORKMEN’S COM-
- PENSATION, PUBLIC RISK, BUR-
GLARY AND PLATE GLASS INSURANCES
at Lowest Rates.
THE TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS
* AXO
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED.
412. Collms-st., Melbourne,
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESKRX E FUND (Invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £37.500 0 0
Dirkctors : R. Murray Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Chairman -
John Grice, Esq., Vice-Chairman ; Hon. J. M. Pratt • J h'
MaqFarland, Esq., M.A., LL.D. : Alexander M'Cracken. ’
JAMES BORROW WAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
The METROPOLITAN
ACCIDENT, FIRE
and GENERAL
INSURANCE COMPANY, LIMITED.
THE CO-OPERATIVE FIRE OFFICE.
Shares Issued to Contributors of Business.
When Your Premium is Due Get Full Particulars.
HEAD OFFICE: 30 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
BRANCHES: Victoria, S. Aus., Queensland*
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER S ESI VICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Quaansland Ports,
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
GERALDTON (W.A.)
S.S. Kanowna, May 27
(To Fremantle without
transhipment), conneet-
in<r with Koombana
in Fremantle for North
West Ports.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Claims.
S.S. Marloo, May 6.
S.S. Wollowra, May 13.
S.S. Innainincka, May 20.
Best and Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Sajoon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after' the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO.. LTD..
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
T-o VANCOUVER, via BRISBANE,
FIJI, and HONOLULU, thence
by Rail to any part of CANADA
or UNITED STATES.
The Best Route to Europe.
SAILINGS :
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
* Via Auckland, New Zealand ; omits Brisbane.
Illustrated Pamphlets Free on Application.
Agents throughout Canada, United States
and Europe—Canadian Pacific Railway Co.
For full particulars apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
•Managing Agents, 259 George-street, Sydney.
F.—H.- —iS.
Federal-Houlder-Shire Lines.
STEAM TO LONDON
Via SUEZ CANAL.
T.S.S. “AYRSHIRE,”
11.900 Tons. W. J. Page. Commander
Will be despatched from BRISBANE - about, 30th April
,< ~ ~ SYDNEY - - 4t,h Mav
„ „ „ MELBOURNE „ 9th May
„ ADELAIDE - „ 13th Mat
The saloon accommodation consists of all two-berth
■cabins on the upper deck, situated amidships.
The superior third-class accommodation, comprised oi
two, four and eight-herch cabins, situated on the main 1
■deck, amidships, with dining room on the upper deck.
. Well lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious decks.
! Third-class passengers supplied with fresh provisions
'from cool chamber throughout the voyage. Surgeon and
■Stewardess carried. Electric light throughout. Return
and Round Trip tickets issued via Cape arid (or) Suez
routes. Prepaid passag-es arranged.
Saloon. Third Class.
FARES.. .. £49 10s. £l3 13s. £l5 15s. £l7 ]7 s.
Steerage fares from Brisbane One Guinea extra.
To he followed at regular four-weekly intervals by fast
twin-screw passenger steamers. For further information,
illustrated books, pamphlets, etc., apply to
■ HURT & 00.. Ltd., Sydney ;
TURNBULL, MARTIN &CO.. Brisbane;
fl. 50NESS & CO., Ltd., llobart;
McILWRAITH. McEAOIIARN & Co., Ltd., Melbourne;
ELDER. SMITH & Co.. Ltd.. Adelaide.
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.,
Ordinary 8 Industrial Life Assurance,
Directors:
•H. M&ontgomkrik llamiltok, Esq., Chairman.
Victor E. Ludlow, Esq., L.K.C.5.1., L.K.Q.C.P.I.
Clauds Manning. Esq.
John F. Urk, Esq.
General Manager: J. A. Hlindkiison.
Secretary:
Freeman J. Eaton
Consulting Actuary
W. Jt. Day, F.I.A.
Head Office :
30 CASTLEREACH ST. (faci'njr Moore St.), SYDNEY.
Queensland:
Metropolitan Buildings,
Adelaide St., Brisbane.
Victoria:
48 Queen St.,
Melbourne.
The “Metropolitan " always has vacancies on its
Agency Staff for reliable and trustworthy men.
THE
lIMITEn insurance
U 11 I 1 Of CO. Limited.
HEAD OFFICE :
GEOKGE-& HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY,
CAPITAL
Fire Inswraaices
Majine Risks ..
- £500,000.
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
on Wool. Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United is an Australian Institution.
THOMAS M. TINLEY, Manager.
THE An.- ttralian Magazine, THE LONE
HAND r the National Monthly, Price 6d.
‘ CO.ft.GULI IttE,’ ‘ KLINX,’ ‘TENASITINE’
—Cements for b. leakages, manufacturing- purposes, etc.


'EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
HOTEL
CECIL
(LONDON).
The largest and
most magnificent
Hotel in Europe.
(|[ Intending visitors
to the CORONATION
should book their
rooms early.
Gable Address: “CECELIA, LONDON.”
tariff Booklet gratia
at office of thia paper.
A
RHEUMATISM
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY.
GOUT, RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA. LUMBAGO,
NEURALGIA.
h
GOUT AND
RHEUMATIC
They Neuer Fait.
They Always Cure.
ĥ
The only true and safe remedy for Gout and
Rheumatism that has stood the test of time
All Chemists and Stores at t/i j & 2/9 per box
Proprietors. PROUT ft Co., 229. Strand,
London. England
GOUT
NEW
Queensland Railways.
Thousands of men will be working on
these shortly, and the wise ones will
wear our
Signal Brand
Boots
especially made for this work.
EACH PAIR GUARANTEED.
Take no other brand if you wish for
satisfactory wear.
Demand them from your storekeeper.
MADE WITH UNION LABOR.
THE
(RECIS
TEREW
The Davey Halliday C?,- d
BRISBANE, Q.,
SOLE MANUFACTURERS.
Have
Green
Soles.
Have
Green
Soles.
66 Id ° • 99
ei
Z/li l
W
m
a
v>;
You will find far greater pleasure in spending your spare hours
at home if you have a “Bijou” table in the dining-room.
This table is specially designed for home use—it contains all the
merits of our standard tables, with the advantage of being readily
convertible into a diiiing-table by means of a simple adjustment of
leaves.
It is fitted with slate bed, fast-running cushions, covered with
superfine billiard cloth, beautifully made and nicely finished.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.
ħ
Pty.
Ltd.
Billiard Table Manufacturers.
397 George St., Sydney. 114 Edward St., Brisbane. Baker Buildings, Featherstone
St, Wellington. 155 Elizabeth St., Melbourne. 7 King William St., Adelaide.
Murray St., Perth. [4
COLDS
SANACINE prevents the wasting and tearing of the Tissues that occurs in violent colds,
clears away the congested phlegm, and speedily allays irritation and inflammation ot the
respiratory organs, and strengthens the linings of the throat and nose. Colds, Influenza,
Lung Weakness, Head and Chest Colds, throat weakness and more virulent forms
of colds immedately yield to the vigorous curative action of Sanacine. A few doses
taken in the early stages diminish the severity of an attack, and a rapid cure is assured.
h
Sanacine benefits
Russian Royal Family
A Court Official writes : “Sanacine was introduced
to the Russian Imperial Family, and they have found
great benefit from using it.”
ĥ
SANACINE
NATURE’S LUNG HEALER
An Invaluable Remedy for
COUGHS
COLDS
ASTHMA
BRONCHITIS
CATARRH
INFLUENZA
CONGESTION
HOARSENESS
HUSKINESS
SORE THROAT
WHOOPING COUGH
CHEST WEAKNESS
and all Disorders of the Lungs, Chest, and Throat.
Prices in Gt Britain : Liquid and Tablets 1/1J and 2/9. Sold by all Chemists, Stores, &c. in Australia.
Proprietors ASHTON & PARSONS, LIMITED. LONDON, E.C., ENGLAND
Few men can strop a razor properly
—most men blunt, instead of sharp-
ening it. The Gillette Razor needs,
no stropping nor honing.: t
British made and sold everywhere. Write for “Hints on
Shaving;” sent post free. Mention this paper.
GILLETTE SAFETY RAZOR, Ltd., 17 Holborn Viaduct,
London, England.
NO STROPPING NO HONING
jozph
ss m
THROW AWAY YOUR PIPE
AND
SMOKE MY CIGARS
Cf\auw t
I’VE knocked around a bit over Australasia in
my time—been in the back parts of pretty
well every State and New Zealand.
I’ve mixed with shearers and musterers and
rouseabouts at different sheds; been at cattle
camps in Queensland; up among the snow
country of Monaro- in the jarrah forests of
Westralia; in mining camps all over the Com-
monwealth; and everywhere I ve seen the boys
smoking their pipes—and seldom a sign of a
Cigar.
Then, I've pulled out my case and handed
some DIADEMAS around. And after ail this,
people say to me—“Oh, Australians won’t smoke
Cigars I'*
ħ
I do just get riled when I
hear this, I tell you that
nearly every pipe-smoker,
once he gets the taste of my
DIADEMAS Cigars, swears
by them. They knock pipe-
smoking hollow!
There’s nothing but To-
bacco in them—and the best
Cigar Tobacco that is grown
—the wrapper, finest Java
leaf; and the inside filling,
all clean, straight,long Brazil.
They draw easily and burn
freely, for they are hand-
rolled by as good Cigar-
makers as there are any-
where in the world.
The boys out-back I’ve
given them to, as I said, just
swear by my Cigars, Men
in the Cigar trade here, too
- —men with whom Cigar-
smoking is a life habit—come
to me and say—“ Look here,
those Cigars of yours are
better than any we can get
in the city. Let us have a
box as a favor.”
Now, I want you to try
my Cigars —at my ex-
pense.
I want to convert you from
the pipe to Cigars—to my
C igars. All I want is for you
to buy my Cigars as against
your pipe and favorite to-
bacco —and I know you'll be
a regular customer of mine.
I’ll post a box of 100 DIADEMAS right to
your address for 22/6. Smoke 5 or 6of them,
and if they're not as good as the best 6d. Cigar
you can buy send the rest of the Cigars back,
and I’ll return every penny of your money. I'll
make no deduction for the Cigars you’ve smoked
There’s no funny business about this offer,
mind. I'll keep to every word of it, and there’ll
be no “back answers” if you want your money
back. If you want to know the kind of man
you’re dealing with, write to the General
Manager, the Commercial Bank, Melbourne,
and he’ll tell you I’m a clean, straight chap in all
my dealings.
Send 22/6 to-day, and get the box of 100
DIADEMAS by return post. In ordering, say
whether you like the mild, medium, or strong
grade.
My Only Address is
LOUIS KAUFFMANN
34 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE
Illustrated Descriptive Booklet will be
Mailed Free to any address.
i. a
Zaw Points
iSr Inventors
Can I Obtain a Patent ?
The quickest way to ascertain this,
WITHOUT EXPENSE, is to write
to me describing' your invention, enclosing a small sketch
where necessary. Nicety of drawing is not essential ;
all that is necessary at first is to give me YOUR IDEA.
I will at once inform you whether the idea is patent-
able, and, if so, give the necessary instructions for
further procedure.
Persons desirous of obtaining really reliable advice or
information regarding Patent matters are cordially in-
vited to consult me personally or by letter. In all cases
a careful consideration of their plans, an honest opinion,
and a prompt reply may be expected.
A. J. CALLINAIM, Patent Attorney,
Citizens’ Buildings, Collins Street, Melbourne.
AGENTS WANTED.
LIVE Representatives to control exclusive
territory for manufacturer’s line of Hi<rh-
srrade Soaps and Toilet Articles. Sensible
assortments in beautiful boxes at low prices.
100 per cent, to 200 per cent, profit. Write for
Illustrated Catalogue.
E. M. DAVIS SOAP CO., Chicago, U.S.A.
Established 15 Years.
“LINSEED COMPOUND.”— The “Stockport
Remedy " for Coughs & Colds. Of 40 years’ proven efficacy.


Catarrh of
the Stomach.
25 O’Grady Street, Albert Park, Vic.
Dear Sirs, —I was suffering from catarrh of the stomach for a period of
over four months and lost 16 lb. in weight. I used to have severe pains in'
the stomacli after meals and mouthfuls cf water would come up and
I could only get relief when the food itself came up. I decided to tryAngier’s
Emulsion, and the first week after I began taking it I gained 4 lb., and soon
went up to my usual weight. lam now able to eat my food without fear oi|
the awful pains, and shall always feel most grateful for the relief I have
gained from the Emulsion. (Signed) T. LOVELL.
ANgier@mulsk)N
Angier s Emulsion soothes the mucous membrane of the stomach and intestines,
arrests fermentation, and promotes normal, healthy action of the bowels. It is a
splendid tonic to appetite and digestion, and it builds up health and strength.
Doctors prescribe it for chronic indigestion, nervous dyspepsia, stomach and intestinal
catarrh, etc. It has cured many obscure and obstinate cases.
1/3, 2/9 and 4/6.
21
Of all Chemists,
A FREE SAMPLE
sent on receipt of 4d. postage. Mention this paper.
THE ANGIER CHEMICAL CO., Ltd., 7, Barrack St., Sydney, ,
HOTEL DANIELL
ft,ATK imperial), Brisbane, Queensland.
AMD royal hotel,
Maryborough, Queensland.
A Home for Commercials and Others.TKl
FINNEY’S
Catalogues
in the house mean that the country
resident has the same choice in
buying as her sister in the city.
They mean better clothes at
no greater expense-—often at less
cost.
We have a set ready to post to
you if you fill in this coupon.
Finney, Isles 8 Co.
LIMITED,
T biock? BRISBANE.
Cut Off Here.
Please send me your new Catalogues.
Mr., Mrs. or Miss ...1..........
“ Bulletin.”
IN BANANA LAND
The Goomerri (Burnett district) land
sales indicate the intensity of the land fever
in Queensland. Competitors came from all
over Australia to get a “cut in” at - this
private estate of 32,000 acres, surveyed off
into farms and township. One quarter-acre
town lot brought £440, and farm land sold
fiP to £l3 an acre. It is further alleged
that over 50 per cent, of the sales made were
effected with a view to speculation impure
and un-simple.
Recently 35 Macka.v sugar cockies, their
wives and families, steamed off to see how
kings are crowned. Another batch left for
Tasmania, Maoriland and Sydney. In 1897,
when the diamond jubilee was celebrated,
and later, in 1901, when Edward had an ap-
pointment with his hatter, the sugar cockies
were not represented at the London shivoo —
they were too busy grappling with the mort-
gage, and wondering where Tommy Tanna’s
half-yearly wages were to come from. This
white labor is a devastating curse all right.
“The Prodigal”: Last week’s election to
fill the late Speaker Joey Bell’s seat in the
Assembly, recalls Joey’s own first public
election. It was for the presidency of the
Cambridge University debating society. The
candidates were Joey and the student who
nowadays is the important statesman, Aus-
ten Chamberlain, M.P. The Queenslander
won by 12 votes, and Chamberlain had to
be content with the vice-presidency. Reg-i
inald McKenna (First Lord of the Admir-.
alty) was a member of Bell’s committee,
which included several future members of
Parliament of considerable tonnage. McKenna,
at the' age of 21, was anxious to secure a
seat in the Commons, and he entered the lists
against Leonard (now Lord) Courtney in
Cornwall. McKenna took the youthful Bell
with him, and the pair put up a desperate
fight against the old veteran. Bell, in this
contest, distinguished himself as a platform
orator, and especially as a master of repartee.
Colin Bell, one of Western Queensland’s
most popular squatters, was asked to contest
the late brother’s seat, but preferred to stick
to sheep.
Donald Hyndman, now chief steward of
the Rupara, had a similar position on the
Yongala for six years, and changed with
Chief Steward Mawby just before the last
voyage.
Northern Queensland, the most fertile and
most vulnerable section of this continent, is
getting “settled” at a great rate! Govern-
ment Statistician Weedon finds that the
great increases in the State’s population
have all been in the districts which were al-
ready the most thickly settled, while the dis-
trict of Somerset (which includes Thursday
Island and York’s Peninsula) shows 700
persons less than at the last census. The
Denham Government is, apparently, becom-
ing alive to tlm necessity for action, and is
remedying matters in this violent fashion:
“Arrived last week, ship Osterley, with 96
immigrants for Brisbane, five for Rock-
hampton and one for Lucinda Point, North
Queensland.”
INDULGING IN PERSONALITIES.
THE FRIED: "How did you get on when you addressed the meeting on the Referenda ,
last night? ”
THE FAT: “ Well , I commenced my speech by alluding to corporations, and then they
didn't seem to take me seriously.”
Enthusiasm for ‘ Yes-Yes” saved the life
of Bamford, M.FI.R. He had been advising
Mackay to vote ‘Yes” on the 26th, and had
intended to go on by the Yongala; but at
th <; eleventh hour he found that there were
a ew others he wanted to talk to, so he de-
( ided to travel by the Cooma, which was sail-
iQ S some hours l later.
Mackay has an aboriginal bellman and
town crier. For some "time after the pre-
vious official passed out, the town manage#
without one, until a theatrical company
showed the way by engaging a horde of small
boys for the work. Their voices, however,
were too shrill; someone with a thousand-
fathoms-deep contralto was wanted. So
Paddy, a full-blooded aboriginal, applied for
the job and got it.
THE QUEEN THAT IS TO COME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Cookery is now taught the renior girls in Queens-
land State schools —an innovation that is likely to be
immensely useful. —Daily Press Item.
Y O more we’ll sit and shiver at the mention
of the pie, v
JLI No more we’ll think profanely-as the pud-
ding wanders by ;
A happy day’s a-coming when a laughing lass and
clean \ .
Will hover like a goddess o’er the goods of our
cuisine;
The hash that once saluted with a flavor all its own,
The grievous chop that smote us till we left it with
a groan,
Shall all be blown to Hades by this new reforming
blast,
And their memory dark be buried in the limbo of
the past!
The chicken of the future shall be tasted in the
broth,
The dinner-beer shall greet us with a plcntitude of
froth ;
There shall be no more cinders on the margin of the
toast,
And all shall scent the Artist in the serving of the
roast;
The kitchen shall be purified of Chow and Japanee,
And she who tends the oven shall a maid of cunning
be;
And we who once grew pallid when the stew was to
the fore,
Shall hail its coming gladly and shall clamor—
“ Give us morel”
The cook who once was “greasy ” shall have perished
in her grease;
She served us most unkindly, but we only wish her
peace;
Her weakly tea will vanish, and (he grisly egg she
fried
Will follow with her mutton chop artistically dried,
And in her place a laughing witch of fricassee shall
rise,
With promise fair of luscious dish, and dainty, in
her eyes;
And we shall fill and fatten, who were one time grim
and lean,
In tribute to the maiden who is Queen of our
Cuisine.
QUEENSLAND.
F. B.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, April 29, 1911.
My Dear Thargomindaii,—
The marrying of George Gray, the much-
sought-after bachelor son of the Hon. G. W.,
was accomplished on Thursday last with
becoming eclat. The bride was Miss Muriel
Appel, daughter of the Home Sec., and the
event was brought off at the home of the
bridegroom, with Father O’Flynn as referee.
After the guests had sipped yellow wine out
of exquisite Venetian glasses, brought out
some years ago by Mr. and Mrs. Gray,
breakfast was served with warm speech at
Appelville. Miss Muriel discarded the
usual satin and orange blossoms for a simple
swathing of net over soft silk, topped by a
black satin hat, in which white plumes
nodded. She acquired a long string of
plaited pearls from the bridegroom, and
many diamonds and an emerald or so from
the family. The moon will shine beside the
breakers at the Tweed, in your territory.
Miss Joan Hart bestowed her future upon
the gentleman of her choice at St. John’s
Cathedral the same day.. She said “Cer-
tainly” in a frock of satin and gauze, which
was the admiration of many guests at the
proceedings. The honeymooners went south.
Miss Gore, who is on the eve of a European
tour, held the bride’s “bokay” while she was
otherwise engaged, and Mr. Crouch gave
first-aid to the bridegroom.
The Government candidate, Mr. Vowles, with
the assistance of the whole Ministerial band,
won the Dalby seat, with about 100 votes
to the good, and thousands to the bad.
Premier Denham puts the meagre majority
down to defective organisation and a short-
age of polling booths, which appears to be
a vote of censure moved by Mr. Denham
against himself.
After a floating Cabinet meeting, the
Ministry came ashore again on Friday, and
Premier Denham immediately announced
the expenditure of £lOOO for the purpose of
locating the wreck of the Yongala. He also
foreshadowed a Government cold store, to
be erected upon a Government wharfalso,
he proposes to fling a -sop to the Wowser
by a stoppage of the sale of liquor in the
sugar districts. The erection of sugar
mills, as proposed by the Sugar Commis-
sion, will be given effect to. The last
item of the programme that came floating
home is that the much-needed pilot boats for
Maryborough, Rockhampton, Townsville
and Cairns are to be seen to. I hear they
are to be good solid vessels of the latest
pattern.
Talking of boats, the Otter, with the
Home Sec. aboard, will leave for Carpentaria
Gulf on Sunday. Mrs. Appel and a care-
fully selected party go along also; but
daughter and her new bridegroom have
jibbqd./ ;
There was a long table of tea drinkers on
Friday at the Eschenhagen Cafe, where Mrs.
Gore said farewell to a host of friends prior
to stepping aboard the Orient liner for Eng-
land. Another little lot was saying fare-
well to a girl who has decided to go cooking
for a man on a coffee plantation up north.
She tells me that the only food-preparers
thereabouts are saffron-tinted, so she has
been learning the culinafy art, and means to
keep her kitchen white.
The private assembly dances are to be
started in a big way at the end of May,
and Miss Denham is setting her hand- to the
lever. The Commercial Rowing Club boys
are first in the field, and their hardy annual
will open out on May 9.
The Mary fund is to close this week, I
believe, and the promoters are making the
best of a bad job.
Lange Powell, the only Queenslander to
have a canvas hung at this year’s Royal
Academy Show, was married last Wednes-
day week to Miss Moore, of Victoria. He
is an architect for his meals, and intends to
raise his own humpy in this city.
Ernie Baynes is surrounded these days
with the congratulations of horsey men
for having collected the Cup at the' Royal
Agricultural Show in Sydney, and brought it
back with him. His horse, Comet, which at
our own show did such a sensational “leap”
over the gate, secured the crockery.
The faculty has decided to hold an inaug-
ural ceremony in connection with the
Queensland University, when the undergrads,
will have their first chance in this State of
misbehaving themselves. The procession is
to be headed by the Beadle and Wee Mac-
gregor, who will put ’em all on for the oc-
casion. And how he does blossom out at
times, to be sure!
Miss Chauvel, who has been for two years
at European art schools, will be in Sydney
ere this reaches you. She has had some
nice things said of her sketches in the Cold
World.
Yours affectionately,
MARIO.
There are gathering clouds whichever way
Dig-his-own-Grave Denham looks. At Dalby
the other day, Victor Drury, solicitor and
ex-Mayor, who used to be a supporter of late
Speaker Joey Bell’s, opened one of the La-
bor candidate’s meetings with the remark
that Bell’s followers were not Denham’s,
and that, as'for himself, rather than sup-
port a Philp-Denham Government, he was
stepping in behind Labor.
Although some parts of Queensland have
been putting up rainfall records, others are
having a tough drought. On Glengyle sta-
tion, near Bedourie, there is not a blade of
grass, and, for months past, cattle have been
dropping, out from starvation. Now the
mail contractor from Boulia to Birdsville
has applied to the G.P.O. to make Bedourie
the terminus of his journey, owing to the
parched state of the country between
Bedourie and Birdsville.
“B20S” on the sugar cocky:—
There are two kinds of sugar cocky-—one who
takes up land himself, and another who buys
land from a large owner, or co. The one is equiva-
lent to a “free house,” the other to a “tied house.”
A “free house” can sell anybody’s beer it chooses,
so a free cocky, i.e., a selector, can make what use
he likes of his land. But a “tied house” must only
sell a certain brand of beer, and a “tied cocky”
must do as the large owner or co. says. When a
cocky buys land from a large owner or co., the latter
says: “We will sell you the land, provided that you
grow cane, and nothing but cane, for 10 years (or
any other stated period, but it is usually 10), and
that you sell us your cane at our price.” The pros-
pective buyer asks: “What about growing a bit of
maize and lucerne for horsefeed?” “Buy them,” is
the answer he receives. “What about a few vege-
tables ?” is his next query, to which he receives
the same answer. When a sale is made on the
foregoing terms, the cocky is not told what kinds
of cane he must grow, but he is told what kinds he
must not grow—which amounts to the same thing
at the end -of the season. Does he offer cash he is
met with, “Oh, dear no; you must buy on terms,” so
that the owner may have a hold on him. ■ Do
“Boro-Belle” and other writers see now why the
cane cocky “worships” cane, and grows nothing else?


PUBLIC CAUTION.
There is only one PHOSPHERINE in the World. The Most FAMOUS of all TONICS.
For over thirty years this preparation has proved a blessing' in the HOMES of Australia, and
is universally in use in New South Wales.
Remember this is “ FISHER’S ” PHOSPHERINE. Only buy bottles with the name “FISHER”
printed thereon, and you will get the ORIGINAL and GENUINE MEDICINE.
Beware of similar sounding' names. Always asK for “Fisher’s,” and you will be safe from intruders.
An absolutely proved remedy for Indig'estion, BacKache, Neuralgia, Headache, Muscular
Rheumatism, and all Nervous Complaints.
Grateful testimonials received from every quarter.
BACKACHE!
A SAFE REMEDY FOR Is.
-<i7
W
KIDNEY AILMENTS.
When you have any suspicion that your kidneys are getting bad, take
Fisher’s Phospherine to cleanse and strengthen them. It is invaluable
as an agent to ward off Diabetes, Bright’s Disease and Backache.
Thousands of people take an occasional Dose of
“FISHERS” Phospherine
to keep their Kidneys in perfect order and up to the mark. A most
efficient doctor at small cost. All Chemists, 1/-; Four Times the Quantity, 2/6.
ALMOST A MIRACLE.
Backache & Kidney Troubles at Darlinghurst.
Nothing will please me more than to give a testimonial as to the splendid results I obtained
from the use of “Fisher’s Phospherine.”
I used to suffer very badly from kidney and bladder troubles. For weeks together I would be
prostrated and unable to leave my room. I had severe pains in the small of my back, and could
stoop only with the greatest difficulty. I gradually wasted away till mv bones nearly protruded
through my skin, and the absence of color in my face made me look like death itself.
More than one doctor prescribed for me, but I gained no real benefit from any medicine till I
started, with Fisher’s Phospherine.
It was the first remedy that seemed to have a stimulating and enlivening effect upon the kidneys.
I regularly dosed myself with it, and in a few days’ time there was a most remarkable difference in
my health. The pains went from my back, and I had a natural appetite, which I had not had during
many weeks previously. *
Fisher’s Phospherine put flesh on rapidly, and in about three weeks from the time I first used it
I was completely well, and up to my usual weight. I have not been troubled with my kidneys since ;
but then I take a few precautionary doses of Fisher’s Phospherine occasionally to ward off any
attacks that might be induced by taking Cold or otherwise.
inglmrst Road.
Subscribed and Declared at Darlinghurst this Twenty-eight day of April, One Thousand Nine
Hundred and Nine, before me JOS. PARKER, J.P.
109 Dari
FIVE DROPS IN WATER AFTER MEALS IS THE GREATEST AID
TO DIGESTION KNOWN.
“ FISHER’S PHOSPHERINE;” ALL CHEMIGTS, 1/- PER BOTTLE. FOUR TIMES
THE QUANTITY, 2/6. INSIST UPON “ FISHER’S.” TAKE NOTHING ELSE.
If You Pay £5 Per Bottle You Cannot Get a Better Tonic for
INDIGESTION,
NEURALGIA,
HEADACHE,
RHEUMATISM,
KIDNEY AILMENTS,
and BACKACHE than
“FISHER’S” PHOSPHERINE.
A most wonderful medicine, easy to take, absolutely superseding awkward
pills and heavy drugs.
Many people as a precaution against kidney and bladder troubles, take it in
their whisky or in wine. Ten drops make a dose.
A most efficient doctor at small cost.
FISHER’S PHOSPHERINE is sold outside of New South
Wales under the name of “FISHER’S GREAT NERVE
TONIC.” Therefore always ask for “ FISHER’S GREAT
NERVE TONIC ” at all Chemists throughout Commonwealth.
INDIGESTION!
A SAFE REMEDY FOR Is.
for that
/Full Stomach
o (' Feeling” 1
Ml
AND
X. I /mi idn i wr.
Burning Sensation
oftheThroat
f
TAKE
“r*. .
/INNspheßl^
Lr
L
\i~
IU--'
FINE TO TEN DROPS OF “ FISHER’S PHOSPHERINE ” IN WATER!
AFTER MEALS IS THE GREATEST AID TO DIGESTION KNOWN.
The after-effects of over-eating and excess-drinking are Removed by this Famous Tonic.
Reliability Test:
Mr. Thomas Forsyth, of Ashfield, writes and declares on oath the following :—“I suffered from
acute inflammation of the stomach, with a burning pain. My tongue got a thick coating over it, and
I constantly suffered from Nausea. Why, I used to be almost constantly vomiting. I consulted two
doctors at Ashfield for years without getting relief. But in'three weeks FISHER’S PHOSPHERINE
completely cured me. lam Noble Grand for the Loyal Ashfield M.U.1.0.0.F. I have been in the
Lodge for 18 years. Most of the members know of my illness. Five to ten drops of FISHER’S
PHOSPHERINE always takes away a sour taste in the mouth, and keeps my stomach in regular
order. Let everyone know of my case.”
Subscribed and declared at Ashfield this Twentieth
Day of August, One Thousand Nine Hundred and Three,
before me— ■
A. R. LEMAIRE, J.P.
IF YOU PAY £5 A BOTTLE YOU CANNOT GET A BETTER TONIC
FOR INDIGESTION THAN
‘FISHER’S” Phospherine.
All Chemists, 1/- per bottle. FOUR TIMES THE QUANTITY, 2/6.
ALWAYS ASK FOR “FISHER’S.”
POST FREE FROM
FISHER & COMPANY,
DISPENSING CHEMISTS,
373 GEORGE STREET, Opp. General Post Office, SYDNEY.
MUSCULAR RHEUMATISM
4*9
Nervous Prostration, Rheumatism,
and Neuralgia.
REMARKABLE TESTIMONY.
Mr. John Shepherd, of Randvvick, writes:—“l was
suffering' from acute neuralgia down- the veins of the
neck and over the whole neck and face. My mouth was
much swollen. I am subject to these attacks, and was
six weeks under a doctor.
“After commencing to take ‘FISHER’S’ PHOS-
PHERINE I had immediate relief, and in one day was
cured ; there only remained a slight weakness from the
excessive pain I had endured.
“ Whatever is the matter with me in the future, I will
always use ‘ FISHER’S ’ PHOSPHERINE, for it is a
most wonderful MEDICINE and NERVE TONIC.”
FRESH AND POTENT. PREPARED DAILY.


Worried and Tortured for 5 Years,
Covered with Eruption All Over.
Could Not Sleep nor Rest. Felt
Like Tearing Himself to Pieces.
With First Use of Cuticura Oint-
ment, had No Itching at All.
“I have been tortured for the past five
years with a bad skin disease. I attended the
h
hospital for two years, off
and on, with it. The last
time I attended for five
months without success.
My back, chest, legs, arms,
scalp, in fact all over, were
covered with the eruption.
I could not sleep at night
nor rest in the daytime.
My back was a smother
from neck to hips with
hundreds of spots and
nasty sores. They worried
me and tortured me so I
felt as though I could tear
myself to pieces. I showed
some of my work-mates, and they said that
they never saw anything so bad, and they
know how I was worried and tortured by this
terrible itching skin disease.
“I had tried many remedies without any
use, but finally I started using Cuticura Oint-
ment and with the very first application I
was relieved and bad no itching at all. Then
I got a good night’s sleep which I had not
had in weeks. Within a fortnight everything
had completely disappeared as if by magic
power, and I have had no trouble since.
I know that Cuticura has cured me, and I
strongly advise those who suffer with any
skin trouble, however had it may be or what-
ever other remedies may have failed them,
to give the wonderful Cuticura Remedies a
trial. I believe their cure will be effected, not
for a little while but for good, for Cuticura
had one of the worst cases to tackle when it
cured me.” (Signed) G. ,T. Dance, 27, New
Road, Brentford, Middx., Eng., May 19,1910.
Cuticura Soap and Ointment are sold
throughout the world. Send to R. Towns &
Co., Sydney, N. S. W., for a liberal sample of
Cuticura Ointment and free 32-page Cuticura
booklet, a guide to the speedy and effective
treatment of skin and scalp diseases.
THE FOLLY OF DRUG
TAKING.
Do not take tonics for nervous breakdown.
There is only one way in which nervous breakdown
can he repaired, and that is by feeding the brain and
nerve centres with Lecithin in an active, organic form.
ANTINEURASTHIN does this, and actually builds up
the nervous S3 r stem by administering to it its natural food.
If you suffer from brain fag, inability of concentration
of thought, want of application, dyspepsia, indigestion,
neuralgia, headaches, languor and irritability, send to
the wholesale distributor for Australia and New Zealand,
H. A. Goddard, 96a Eagle Street, Brisbane, Q., or 194
Vickery’s Chambers, 82 Pitt Street, Sydney, enclosing
ninepence in stamps, and a sample of Antineutasthin,
with pamphlet dealing with nervous troubles, will be
forwarded to you by return of post. [1
Millars’ Karri S Jarrah
Co. (1902), Ltd.
Wf, Supply—
JARRAH Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’ Scant=
ling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
72 BISHOPSGATE STREET WITHIN,
LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
6S£ PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
*l
r!To MORE
iv&dtn
A
Dr. B. Allen s (u.s.a.)
Mexican Walnut Stain
Is the only Permanent and really
satisfactory One Solution Hair Stain.
None Genuine without Signature—ALFßED ARDLEY.
ALL CHEMISTS.
0
WHOLESALE:
R. Reid & Co., Ltd.
Sargood Bros.
Alcock Bros., Ltd.
Petersen, Boesen
& Co., Ltd.
Etc.
RETAIL:
Everywhere, at 6d.
per tin—Black, Tan,
and Ox-blood.
FOR
•m
UNDERWEAR
RELIABILITY
To pay a ridiculously low price for your Under-
wear is to court disappointment— perhaps worse !
Wolsey is not the lowest priced at the outset, but it is absolutely
reliable, therefore, cheapest in the end. Wolsey pure wool,
Wolsey fit, and feel, and finish, and wear have
collectively made Wolsey the most widely
selling brand of Underwear in the world.
THE WOLSEY GUARANTEE!
Every Wolsey Garment is guaranteed unshrinkable
both in wash and wear, and will be replaced
free if it should prove otherwise.
Wolsey is obtainable at
any Store.
'\iousti]
UNSHRINKABLE
“Aberdeen”
Rugs.
ABERDEEN ” RUQS are essentially
Rugs of Reliable Quality.
Every feature in their material and work=
manship is unexcelled for sound value.
That’s why thousands of Stockowners
prefer them, and why every storekeeper
of note sells them.
Ask for the “ Aberdeen ” Brand. If un-
obtainable locally, send direct to us for
price list.
Smith, Copeland 8 Co. Ltd.,
204-206 Clarence Street, Sydney.
AGENTS:
QUEENSLAND : H. J. H. Ross, Edward Street,
Brisbane.
VICTORIA: J. Bartram & Son, King: Street, Mel-
bourne.
S. AUSTRALIA: C. Whitingr, Currie Street, Adelaide.
ĥ
ħ
PRICE 2/- Z.
Watch Your Skin Crow Clearer
Using soap and water only is expecting Nature to do too much.
Chaps, rough or red skin, sallowness, blotches, wrinkles, and
other unsightly skin conditions result from the presence of ex-
traneous matter which soap and water does not always eradi-
cate. Help Nature, and keep your skin in tone by using
Icilma Fluor Cream
(Gr>>aseless).
Every day, especially before going out, apply a little of the
cream, and enhance your beauty. Good for preventing
sunburn and freckles-.
The native girl reminds you that ICILMA is
the product of a Natural Spring in Algeria.
SAMPLE OFFER. On receipt of 2d. in stamps a dainty
sample of Greaseless Cream will be sent by
ICILMA CO. Ltd.
(Dept. D),
139 York Street, SYDNEY.
FLY CATCHERS.
BEST MANUFACTURE, TWO SYSTEMS.
FIRST-CLASS FIRM WANTED FOR GENERAL AGENCY FOR AUSTRALIA.
Only firms guaranteeing: certain introduction of nrbicles on a large scale ; therefore, thorough
acquaintance with the conditions of the branch essential.
LARGE PROFIT CERTAIN OWING TO EXCELLENCE OF MANUFACTURE.
BEST QUALITY GUARANTEED.
OFFERS, ADDRESS M.N. 2415 HAASENSTEIN 8 VOGLER A.C., BERLIN, W.S.
1
One of the most
valuable foods known to
the Medical Profession. —“ The
Lancet ” describes it as “ Mr. Benger s
admirable preparation.”
Benger’s Food is distinguished from the others by
the ease with which it can be digested and absorbed.
Benger’s Food is for Infants and Invalids,
and all whose digestive powers have become weakened
through illness or advancing age.
BENGER’S FOOD LIMITED, Otter Works, Manchester, England,
$ eager s Food is sold in tins by Druggists, etc.., everywhere.
The Inky Way.
“Condot”: Concerning ancient newspapers (B.
6/4/’ll), I have two older than those mentioned.
One is “A Perfect Diurnal of Some Passages in Par-
liament from Munday the 22. of January till Mun-
ilay the 29. of January 1649.” This reports very in-
adequately the “Tryall of Charles Stuart.” Charles
liad a hit of a quarrel with the Lord President of
the Court at the outset, and declined to plead. The
Lord President replied in a style suggestive of John-
son snubbing Boswell: “Sir, you are not to dispute
our Authority. You are told it again by the Court.
Sir, it will be taken notice of that you stand in con-
tempt of the Court.” At the conclusion of the hear-
ing the Lord President made a “large speech,” prov-
ing by law “how kings were accountable to their
people and the law, which was their superiour, and
producing severall instances of kings being deposed
and imprisoned by their subjects, especially in his
own native kingdom of Scotland, where, of 109
kings most were deposed, imprisoned or proceeded
again for misgovernment, and his owne Grand
Mother removed, and his Father, an infant, crown-
ed.” Which last is a bit puzzling, and looks as if
his Honor had been misreported. After this the
“dark” read the sentence —That he, the said Charles
Stuart, as a Tyrant, Traytor, Murtherer, and
Publique Enemy, shall be put to death by the sever-
ing of his head from his body.” An advertisement
records the publication of an early system of short-
hand —“Zeiglographra, or a new arte of short writ-
ing, more easie, exact, speedy, and short than any
heretofore, invented by Thomas Shelton, being his
last 30 years’ study.”
“Blue Blazes”: “B. de D.” (B. 6/4/’ll) whoops
for the better treatment of the “casual three-half-
pence-a-line-men,” who, he says, are in a worse
position than the rankest junior. Also he remarks:
“A casual may find himself down for an engagement.
He attends, but if no copy results no pay results.”
Neither statement is much more than quarter right.
Some linesmen may be Worse off than the rankest
junior, but not many. As a matter of fact, the
bulk of the Sydney linesmen are a long way better
off than the juniors of even the big offices. There
are linesmen in the city making even more than
senior staffsmen, though I grant they wouldn’t form
a battalion or even a cricket eleven. As for “B. de
D.’s” second statement, I can’t speak for all the
offices in all the cities, but I know that on one of
the Sydney morning papers the rule is that when a
linesman is put on the duty book he is paid 10s.
for the day and nothing for the copy.
The latest Woman’s paper (Mrs. Bull, London)
has a column of engagements, marriages and divorces.
They are published under the heading of “The Matri-
monial Egg,” thus: —-
THE WHITE.
Crofton —Anderson. —Captain Edward George Low-
ther Crofton, D. 5.0., R.N., second son of Major
Lowther Crofton, of Hazel Mount, Isle of Wight,
to Magdalen Sinclair, eldest daughter of Duncan
.Sinclair Anderson, late of Newstead, New South
Wales.
THE YOLK.
Culver —Roberts. —At St. Margaret’s, etc.
THE SHELL.
Fraser.— Major Angus George Fraser, retired, Sec-
retary of the Territorial Forces for Dumfries,
Kirkcudbright and Wigtown, petitioner, v. Mrs.
Fraser. Co-respondent, Captain Thwaites, of
the Scottish Own Borderers (resigned). Decree
nisi granted.
“Bookware”: Monypenny’s new authorised “Life
of Disraeli,” Vol. 1., based on a complete run of all
the Hughenden papers, clears up the mystery of
Murray’s daily newspaper, the Representative. As
usual "the explanation is the simplest. Disraeli, then
only 20, was the potent man in the early stages, but
suddenly dropped out; and that was the puzzle.
Murray, Disraeli, sen., and Powles agreed to start
the Representative. Murray had a half share; the
other two a quarter each. Young Disraeli was’ the
splendid manager in the preliminaries; he went and
interviewed Walter Scott and Lockhart at Abbots-
ford, and actually persuaded Lockhart to take the
editorship, though Scott choked him off it. Dizzy
also engaged a lot of foreign correspondents, and did
numerous other miracles for a young man of 20.
Then he suddenly vanished out of the concern. The
explanation is that Murray found old Dizzy and
Powles had not a realisable bean. Murray, having
gone so far, ventured alone, and lost £ 26,000 in
six months. It recalls Mortimer Franklyn, the
Yankee barber of genius, who got Herbert Henty, of
Melbourne, to pour out £90,000 over the World,
Federal Australian and Victorian Review while
Henry Henty, Herbert’s partner, was away. There
might have' been a fortune in it; but Henry shut
down. Remember Tichborne Castro’s saying: “Them
as has money and no brains is made for them as
has brains and no money.”
“Scribe”: Anent the jarring between Wilson and
Mackinnon of the Aiigus (B. 23/3/’ll). Wilson
was farming at Dandenong when his indignation was
roused by the proceedings of Governor Latrobe.
He wrote a letter on the subject to the Argus,
signed “lota,” and it made such an impression that
he followed it up with others. Then he and John-
ston bought the Argus ; Wilson wrote most of the
leaders, and the Radical bias was palpable. Thus
he helped to flog up the Eureka Stockade—whereat
he drew in his horns, terrified, and gave the young
Age its chance to live. Wilson was, nevertheless,
still fully charged with Liberal sentiments, such as
had prompted his standing advertisement: “Wanted
a Governor.—Apply to the People of Victoria.”
When Wilson gave up he handed the reins to the
man of his heart, Higinbotham, who would infallibly
have blocked Synie and the Age. However, the
Mackinnon money and Fatman came in, and Higin-
botham held on for only nine months. In after years
he had the sweet revenge of “quodding” the Argus
publisher.
THE CRAFTSMAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
For thrippence or fourpenee a golden line the poet
is plying his trade.
His coat is off, and his sleeves rolled up, lest his
laurels wither and fade;
His mind is rich with a jingle of rhymes, and his
verses bump and roll —
Oh, happy the ink and glad the pen that interpret
a poet’s soul!
Sing, happy maiden, ’neath the roses,
Blink, happy starlight, to the moon.
Every little dewdrop that he knows is
Making bread-and-butter in a tune.
There are wrongs to be righted, and roads to blaze
through the trackless forest of days,
There are foes to be smitten, and deaths to die, and
beautiful ladies to praise;
And the singer is willing to tackle the lot with his
frolicsome flutter of rhyme.
He is grinding his verses to beautiful form for
thrippence or fourpenee a time.
Dance, gleaming waves, in happy laughter.
Nod, happy flower, upon the stem,
Live in pleasant song for ever after —
Bread-and-butter shines in every gem.
There are exquisite kisses on beautiful lips, and
wonderful eyes and hair,
And slippers that flutter like small black mice at
the top of the bathroom stair.
There are kids that are shouting, and birds that
sing, and shadows that flicker and fade,
And marvellous sunsets that nobody dreams are the
tools of the rhymster’s trade.
Shine, happy sun, upon a nation,
Lie, happy statesman, long and hard ;
Every blooming thing in all creation
Turns to bread-and-butter for the bard!
N.S.W.
PAT O’MAORI.


Kodak Simplicity Marks Every
Step in Kodak Photog'raphy.
EVERY DAY is a Kodak day. Nature just now offers unlimited opportunity for
securing- pictures of special interest, and you will derive double the pleasure from
your outings if you take a Kodak Camera with you.
You know, of course, that the Kodak is the simplest, surest and best of Cameras. It
is an instrument upon which you can rely at all times. Loading, unloading, developing,
printing and finishing—all are carried out in complete daylight or lamplight—at home
and in comfort. So that you see Kodak Photography is instructive, fascinating and the
acme of simplicity.
Brownie Cameras, from ss. Regular Eastman Kodaks, from 265. All Kodak supplies
at English List Prices. Call and inspect our display, or write for a free copy of the
Kodak Catalogue.
£270
Austral Dr y Plate Prize Competition.
Full details in the current issue of the ** Australasian Photo-Review,” or
pamphlet giving complete particulars may be had free upon application.
m
“If it isn’t an Eastman, it isn’t a Kodak!’’
v■ .:v : : . i y. y y. ; ’ ,:y- : ■■ ■ ~.
The No. 1 Folding. Pocket
Kodak Camera 42/-
The smallest and simplest of all the Pocket
Kodaks. Pulling down the bed automati-
cally springs the front into position.
No focussing necessary ; just locate the
image in the finder, and press the lever.
Equipped with first quality Meniscus Achro-
matic Lens, fitted to Pocket Automatic
Shutter, adjusted for both snapshot and
time exposures. Brilliant Reversible Finder.
Pictures, x 3%in. Price, £2/2/=
The No. 3 Folding Pocket
Kodak Camera, —72/6
The No. 3 Folding Pocket Kodak combines
compactness with convenience, just as all
Kodaks do. It takes pictures 3X' n - x
4/^T and is fitted with R.R. Lens, the
F.P.K. Automatic Shutter, Automatic
Focussing Lock and two Tripod Sockets.
Body is constructed of aluminium, covered
with fine-quality black seal grain leather, and
the weight is only 2302. Price, £3/12/6.
If a dealer tries to sell you a Camera or Film or any other photo
supply not of our manufacture, under the Kodak name, or seeks to
describe It as “just as good,” you can be sure that he has an
inferior article that he is trying to market on the Kodak
reputation. «< jj jj an E astman> j t a j ”
KODAK (Australasia) LTD.,
Incorporating Baker
& Rouse Prop. Ltd.,
379 George St., Sydney. “The Block,” 284 Collins St., Melbourne. 37 Rundle St., Adelaide.
78-80 Queen St., Brisbane. Ruthven St., Toowoomba. Flinders St., Townsville. 346 Argent St., Broken Hill. 6 Mercer St., Wellington, N.Z.
h
Rll2—Fine
Pearl and
Amethyst Set
15ct. Gold
Necklet, will!
Oct. Gold
Chain, £4 4/-
Dainty New Neck Jewellery.
THE new Pendants and Necklets are of rare
excellence, and come In a myriad of dainty
styles, exquisitely set with flawless gems of real
beauty, each true to name. Lovers of good
jewellery will do well to spend a few minutes
carefully viewing this new neck jewellery.
Merit and value are here linked together, so
as to bring quality Pendants and Necklets
within the reach of all.
Rloo—lsct. Gold necklet, set with
Fine White Baroque and Half-pearls,
£7/10/-
Rlo2—Handsome Pendant and Enoch,
set with Finest Quality Diamonds in
Platinum and Gold, £B5.
Ds6Bs—Fine Pearl and Turquoise Se
15ct. Gold Plaque Pendant and Neck,
slide, with Chain, £l2/10/-
RlOS—lsct. Gold Pendant
and Brooch, set with Fine
White Pearls and Peridots,
£6.
Pendant, set
with Pine White
Pearls, 25/-
Rlo7—9ct. Gold
Charm, 6/6.
Rlos—9ct. Gold Necklet,
set with Fine White Pearls
and Aquamarines, £5/5/-
Rllo—lsct. Gold Necklet, set with Fine
White Pearls and Peridots, £4/t5/•
Illustrated
Catalogue—
free.
VWNmSAViSOW
(flusTpALifl) Lid
The Treasure House, Strand Corner, 412 George Street, Sydney.
Pay
Postage on
Your
Purchases.


PALMER TYRE,
SHOWING SQUARE
TREAD WITH
CIRCUVIF .REN HAL
GROOVES.
Palmer Cord Tyres
Now so widely in demand among motorists, owe their popularity
to their wonderful construction. The Fabric is composed of
twisted Cords embedded in rubber. They are immensely^trong—
practically immune from punctures, give freedom from side slip, and
will last twice as long as any other make. His Majesty King
George uses them on all the Royal Cars. “ It’s all in the Cords.”
PRICE CATALOGUE FREE.
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER CO.,
279 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY ; and at
33 BOLTON STREET, NEWCASTLE.
ON THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound ; containing upwards of Three hundred
of “Hop’s” best drawings. Full Bulletin size
Price, 21s.
STEVENS
FAVORITE RIFEE NO. 19
UNERRINGLY ACCURATE.
The Ideal Rifle for Miniature Rifle Clubs.
Same Specifications as Favorite No. 17, except Fitted with Lyman Front,
Stevens Leaf and Lyman Rear Peep Sights.
Insist on
STEVENS
when ordering
from your Dealer.
Write for Catalogue to
ARTHUR H. HILL, Australian Represent-
ative for Stevens Arms and Tool Co.,
Box 86, G.P.0., Adelaide, S. Australia.
Send for latest Fire-
arm, Telescope and
Stevens-Pope Cata-
logues. [5
The Bulletin Post Cards.
FORWARDED POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS.t of TWELVE. 6d. Packe Packet of TEN. 5d
m
a
m
h*
m
mm
=333??*
Lms»»
V"
ft
a
K
1
0
m
A&Y*.
«.7.t
yZ/V/j/;
u#&
*
il
H
mm
m 0
aeSJ-r^v-i^-ha
<vA
m
mm*?
tas
m
m
*‘VS2
e»c
ippi
3S
£»
&
WMmwmmMw
> < du*
~T*Z
m
m
*3
*^a!L
r
W
m
<2
H
m
Heamc’s Bronchitis Curc^
is sold by Chemists
and Medicine y
Vendors*
throughout
Australasia.
If you cannot obtain
this remedy locally
write for it direct
to
W. G. Hearne
SI Co
Heame’s Bronchitis Cure
Leader of the Crusade against Winter Ills.
THOSE who have taken this medicine are amazed at its splendid healing power. Sufferers from Bronchitis,
Cough, Croup, Asthma, Hoarseness, Difficulty of Breathing, Pain or Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful
and rapid relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as* it effects a complete cure.
It is most comforting in allaying Irritation in the Throat and giving Strength to the Voice, and it neither allows
a Cough nor Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption is not known where “Coughs”
have, on their first appearance, been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it as taken
at the beginning, a dose or two is generally sufficient, and a complete cure is certain.
W. G. Hearne 81 Co. Ltd., Geelong, Victoria.


The Elite
t:au de Cologne
n /$>
til)
»»ca't=:
jjMhr,
FIDELITAS
m .
■-' ' V:;
>:. ■
. M
%\
\r->.
'■JPC'!#
SSI.
%‘S?.
- ■
mi'M*
OP*
Triumph of
Modern Science
Obtainable from all leading establishments
" AWL-YOU-WANT.”
THE GEM SEWING AWL.
EVERYBODY CAN USE IT.
Repairs Bags, Belts, Straps, Harness, Boots, Shoes ; Sews
2s. Carpets, Canvas, Blinds, Tarpaulins
(Awl, 2 needles,
z reel cotton.)
etc., etc., with a LOCK-STITCH.
ĥ
[ Its immense value in repairs to Boots
and Shoes,is now well known, and in
repairs to Bags, Belts, Straps, etc., it
lis the “ Awhyou-want," Thread from the
' reel (which may be kept in one’s pocket) is
supplied continuously—a great advantage,
apparent in sewing Carpets, Canvas, Blinds, Tarpaulins, etc:
Needies are interchangeable, extra ones can be obtain-
ed. Stout or Fine, Bent or Straight.
PRICE—Gem Sewing Awl (polished wood handle, brass
fittings, brass bobbin, 2 steel needles—l bent, 1 straight—l reel
prepared cotton), 2s. complete, post free. Extras: Cotton,
5d., post tree. Needles istout or fine, straight or bent), 4d.,
post free; 2 for 7d., set of 8 for 2s. Sena postal note to
STAR NOVELTY CO.. 229 Collins Street. Melbourne.
THE DAZZLES
Elec
Best Pocket Lamp on the market. Instantly available-*
press the button and a brilliant light floods forth. Can’t blow
out; no smoke, no oil, no matches. Powerful simple battery,
can be re-charged with water. Strong case, fits the hand and
fits the pocket. A wonderful demonstration of the every-day
utility of electricity, as light io quite safe near gunpowder,
gas, naphtha, etc. A novelty, and good fun—may be used
in a hundred mirth-provoking ways. Fitted with new j-cell
battery (haying 6 times the life of the old style 3-cell) and
new metallic filament lamp (giving a brighter light on less
current than the old carbon lamp). Lamp, complete. 55.,
post free. Extra cells when required, is. 9d. ; bulb lamps to
fit, is. 9d., post free. Scarf-pin lights, to attach, 3s. 6d. Send
postal notes.
STAR NOVELTST CO., 229 Collins Street, Melbourne.
ħ
“KURLO "-Hair-Curling Fluid. Beaut ful
wavy hair is most admired. “ Kurlo " produces
most natural-looking waves or curls in a Jew
days. Very little trouble ; no tongs or pins re-
quired. “ Kurlo ” curls are not affected by fog.
sea air, heated ballrooms, etc. May be usecf
for iladies’, Gent.’s or Children’s hair. Neither sticky
nor greasy; makes the hair soft and silky. Bottles,
2S. 6d., post free, in plain wrapper. American Toilet
Agency, Box 466 G.P.0., Melbourne.
h
4 ‘ GRO-A-MO " forces growth of moustache and whis-
kers. Bottles, 25., post free, in plain wrapper.
American Toilet Agency, Box 466 G.P.0., Melbourne.
ĥ
WHAT IS CATARRH ?
CATARRH is inflammation of the lining
membrane of the nose and adjoining
passages. If this inflammation is not ar-
rested it invades the passages which lead
from the nose to the head, ears, throat and
lungs. It injures the sight and hearing,
destroys the sense of taste and smell, ren-
ders the breath offensive, breaks down
the affected tissues, and consumes the
nasal cartilages. The discharge, passing
through the lungs and stomach, causes
dyspepsia, also consumption. Do you
want relief and cure? If so, try our
great remedy.
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR cures Catarrh,
Hay Fever. Catarrhal Deafness, Head-
ache, Neuralgia, Colds, Bronchitis, Asth-
ma. Write for booklet free, or send
Postal Note jos. for Medicator complete,
with 4 months treatment, post free anywhere. •
Address: Star Novelty Co., 209-231 Collins Street,
Melbourne. jßox 466, G.P.0.)
M*dic*tcr, size
3j inches Ion g.
THE DRUM
IN POSITION
(INVISIBLE)
DEAFNESS
And HEAD NOISES Relieved by
Using WILSON’S COMMON-SENSE
EAR-DRUMS.
A scientific invention entirely different
in construction from all other devices.
They have restored hearing when other
devices fai’ed and medical skill gave*no
relief. Soft, comfortable and invisible;
no wire or string attachment.
Write for Pamphlet. Mention this paper.
STAR NOVELTY C 0 529 Collini
Street, Melbourne.
wr
w«
>5
nt
Wfi»
#«8
#A
ill*
ill*
»«A
'*«
ill*
ill«
ill*
ill*
ill*
il*
»l*
ill*
Ml
3
»**.!
ii'i
Si
?#*
MV!
233
%
57
as
is!
♦*
■K
&
BibenduuTs Tyre Lectures — No. 5.
This is why the
Square Tread
is shaped as it is:
Because after exhaustive experimental work, and a long series of
practical tests, the manufacturers have ascertained that only a cover of
this particular shape can, when inflated and supporting the weight of the
car, give the best results in the wearing of the tread.
Because it augments the strength as well as the resiliency of the
rubber, besides giving it a tendency to close up any cut sustained, rather
than permitting it to gape open and provide ingress for injurious foreign
bodies. Thus it is that the Michelin Square Tread has won its pre-eminence
among all-rubber covers.
STOCKISTS : All the Leading
ħ
Garages.
WARNING. —Don't buy
Michelin Tyres at less
than current prices. They
may be of old manufacture.
Purchase only from out
Agents.
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS
NEW SERIES—IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve, 6d. ; Packet of Ten, sd.
ZEISS
FIELD GLASSES
WITH ENHANCED STEREOSCOPIC EFFECT.
For:
ARMY.
MARINE.
TRAVEL.
SPORT.
STALKING.
h
Features:
Brilliant
Definition.
Extensive Field.
Great Light
Intensity.
Mechanical
Precision.
Stability.
Tropic Proof,
With
separate eyepiece
focussing.
X 8 £8 15 0
Xl2—£l2 10 0
NEW MODELS
OF ALL
OPTICIANS AT
AUSTRALASIAN
PRICES.
With
central focussing
mechanism.
X 6 0 0
X 8 15 0
ĥ
ħ
Tickles the Palate


: VN
WA
DOMOULINS D.8.8.L. GUN,
12-gauge, toplever, 30in. real twist barrels,
choke, side clips, square Greener cross bolt,
highly engraved, pistol grip, walnut stock,
weight about 71b., patent fore-end.
POST FREE,
£4 4s.
h
“WINCHESTER,” Single Shot, 1902 Model,
22 Cal. Rim Fire, peep or V sights, scroll
trigger guard, steel heel plate,
weight 2flb.
18s. 6d.
We can supply the 1902 Model Rifle, fitted with sporting ladder rear sight,
at 20s. Postage—ls. 6d., N.S.W.; 2s. Bd., Inter-State.
Our
Special
Snaps
ĥ
ħ
ISAAC HOLLIS 8 SONS’ “ THE RELIABLE ” D.8.8.L. Gun,
12-gauge, top lever, bar action, 30in. real twist or steel
barrels Greener cross bolt, both choke, rebounding locks, ... „ ,
snTp fore end, chambered for 2|in. cartridges, weight from 7i to 741 b. Guaranteed
for all Smokeless Powders, half-pistol
£6 12s . 6d.
Send for Our
ILLUSTRATED
SPORTS,
FISHING and
TOBACCO
LISTS, FREE.
£
BAYARD SEMI-AUTOMATIC RIFLE,
22 cal., 19in. Round Steel Barrel, length over
38Ain., weight 3flb., handles short, long
or long rifle cartridges,
25/-
Postage—ls. 6d., N.S.W. ; 2s. Bd., Inter-State.
MICK SIMMONS, Ltd
Head Depot, HAYMARKET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches—Hunter St., Newcastle ; 273 Darling St., Balmain; 197 Oxford
St., Sydney; Church St., Parramatta; 311 King St., Newtown. [4
Schute, Bell & Co.
limited.
Wool Stores: Central Wharf. Produce Stores:
Quay. Offices :44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Do not sell Fat Stock,
but only Wool, Sheepskins,
Hides, Tallow, etc,, and
Marsupial & Rabbit Skins.
Each head of the Company a worker
in the interests of their constituents.
Proceeds protected Trust Account
Bank of N.S.W.
£5
GIVEN AWAY
For Correct Answers.
To each and everyperson sending in the Corre ct Solution of the folio-wing Puzzle we hereby undertake
and agree to send them the sum of
FIVE POUNDS
subject to the conditions hereunder :
Encouraged by the enormous demand for our ruCTURE POST CAROS, we have devised this simple
Method of advertising, with the object of making our name more widely known, and to introduce our
1911 Series. We expect by this competition of brains to make such an impression on your mind that
you will be compelled to talk about us to your friends, and the extraordinary value of our FINE ART
PICTURE POST CARDS.
ALL WE ASK YOU TO DO IS THIS :
Fill in the missing letters in the following Puzzle :
OJR P**T C*R*S A*E T*E B**T V*L*E IN A*S*R*L*A.
Your answer must be posted and addressed to the Manager of the Fine Art Post Card Co., Hunter-
street, Sydney and received by him, and must agree with our solution, lodged in the BankofN.S.W.
PRIZES WILL BE SENT PROMPTLY.
With your solution to the above Puzzle (to which there is no entry fee), send us a Postal Note for 2/6,
for which we will send you Free a sample packet of thirty (30) Selected and Assorted Post Cards, and if
your solution is correct, we will also send you within a fortnight your prize of £5, and will ask you to
accept this reward for your services for showing our Post Cards, and recommending them to your friends
WE GUARANTEE this Cempetition to be a straightforward Competition of brains and work. A copy
of the right solution we have lodged with our Bankers (BankN.S.W.),
Duenotico of the closing of this Competition will appear in, this paper, but if before the date ofthe
closing of the Competition more than 100 correct answers have been received, One Hundred Cash Prizes
of £5 each will be awarded to those sending correct answers in the order in which their answers shall
have been read by the Manager of the FINE ART POST CARD CO.
Should your solution reach us before the closing date, a l l be correot according to our conditions, and
not be within the first 100, we will send you FREE A SOLID SILVER WATCH AND CHAIN (Lady’s or
Gentleman’s). No person will be entitled to more than one prize.
N.B,—Your solution is to be accompanied by attached Coupon which forms part of this competition,
and addressed to THE MANAGER OF
FINE ART POST CARD CO.,
HUNTER STREET,
SYDNEY.
My Solution to your Puzzle is as follows:
And I AGREE TO ABIDE BY THE DECISION OF THE MANAGER OF THE FINE ART POST
CARD CO., which I acoept as final and legally binding.
Signed....
Address... •.••••.
Date
Will Andrade « BOOKS.
Plays,
Comedies,
Farces, etc.
The Largest Stock in
Australasia.
Write for new PLAY
CATALOGUE,
also Supplementary Cata-
logue Of FREE-ACTING
EDITIONS.
SPECIAL AGENT for
Samuel French, London,
and American Publishers.
Kelly Gang, True Story,
1/-. Book of Coin Tricks,
1/.. Wrestling, by Frank
Gotch, World’s Champion,
10d. One Thousand Ways
to Get Rich, 1/6. How Old
Mosb Counted Eggs, and
115 other Recitations, 1/-.
Letter Writer, 1/-. Dr.
Foote’s Plain Home Cyclo-
paedia, latest edition, 1248
pages, 400 colored plates
and engravings, 7/6. Dr.
Faulkner’s Original Book
of Nature, the only genu-
ine! and unabridged edi-
tion, 3'6, posted 4/-. Free-
masonry Explained, 1/3.
Ne\7 Tricks with Cards,
1/-. How to Mesmerise, 1/-
vggr~ AND ANY BOOK
YOU WANT.
Mention The Bulletin.
Above prices include postage to any address.
CHEAP CONJURING TRICKS.
h
Marvellously Simple 1
Simply Marvellous !
Multiplying: and Van-
ishing: Billiard Balls.
Produced from no-
where, appearing: at
word of coriuhand be-
tween the fingers (see
illustration). Complete
with Full Instructions
(enabling: the merest
amateur to perform it),
1/6 ; posted, 2-
Two-from-Five Card
Trick. Another start-
ler, introducing some-
thing quite new in
magic. Price 6d. ; post
free, Bd.
Thk Above Two Tricks (which require no stage
no confederates and no special shill), post free any
where, with Illustrated Catalogue of Magic, 2/6.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne.
For your BOOTS and SHOES.
In BLACK and BROWN.
The best and also the cheapest
PASTE POLISH on the market
for cleaning, polishing, and
preserving all kinds of Leather
Boots, Shoes, Harness, &c.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
\JONI4*
PAStt#
m
MADE. 6Y
t. brown
A* TMCIA WU.TONIAN fiLACKtNC WAWUrACTOR*
7 OARfUCKST LOHOON.vy.C .
Paris. 26 awe bercgre.
Made by the Manufacturers of the Celebrated
“ MELTONIAN BOOT POLISHES.
E. BROWN 8 SON ( Black^nu?act B u°re t rs PoHBh) LTD - LONDON and PARIS.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OP NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
£ ravings, new 1908 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 6d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings. Is.
How to Dancf., Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Quadrille Call Book,
2s Adventures of a Flirt, is. 3d. Parlor Tricks
and Games, Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
Is 2d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is 2d post.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. S.andow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Bod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, 6s. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford) 9d The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain for the
British 6d. How to Bead Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler's Human Science,
10s 6cl. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is 6g.
ĥ
HOME cyclopedia
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
BY Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chrqmos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Hereare answered, in plain language, athou-
sand questions that;Ocdur to the minds of young-andold, but about
which they feel a delicacy, in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived:
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH.-*]
nr
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Easv, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is ; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor. : Everyman His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d.
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougall Topped the Score, &
Other Verses, Is 3d. The Gay Count, Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. Established 25 Year s .
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROn THIS ADVT.
+
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How TO Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappiio, genuine,
Is. Old Busii Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions of the King,
Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. 6d. Secret
History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. 'Vest Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, /s fid post.
INGBRSOLL’S WORKS, Bd, 2S. HOW TO READ HEADS
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevassb’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s fid posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book’ over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d.‘ The Wife’s Handbook,
ls2d posted. Fruitsot- Philosophy. Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure Is 2d posted)' Webster’s Large Un-
abridged ’DiCTioilflfrfTraO pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, mvpriC<^lst['post paid ( fhv pay 3 and 4
guineas), mo-ht Al&ft ■ 1?$ p a i rj|i e|) s 2d. Dyna-
mos and
MOS AND r”- T j,. ,
Assistant and Coxmm cloth
bound 10s fid posted. . Tub Sb«rktS OF-CLairvoyancb,
Is post 1 200 ULD-Trsi'E Songs (words* and music com-
pete) Is‘fid hosted, iftih AfefE "OF Reason, by Paine,
posted, uScL u W RITR k’OR CATALOG UK TO-DAY.
SIR
Cheap Book Depot—
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).


-at—
■ air’
I
WLWUSNEJS
f A BUSY HOBSEWIFE’S PBOSTRATINC
/ ATTACKS COMPLETELY CORED.
\
I WAS a great sufferer from pros=
trating bilious attacks,” says Mrs.
A. Clucas, of 45 Stephen Street,
Camperdown, Sydney. “The feelings
of utter distress were terrible. Indeed,
I was quite incapable of performing my
household tasks, and I was forced to
neglect them on more than one occasion.
“The painful headaches in my temples
and at the back of the head and down
my neck would be very trying. My
temples used to throb and throb, and I
would hold my head with the tortures of
the violent pulsation.
“ Pains in the chest and between the
shoulders also gave me great pain, and
were the result of indigestion. When I
would take a meal an uncomfortable
feeling of fulness would follow, which
would not be due to the quantity of food
Mrs. A.
Clucas,
cured by
Bile Beans,
taken, but to the fact that what I had eaten would not diet.
“I took many so-called remedies in my search for a medicine
that would bring me relief, but my efforts were in vain, and I con-
tinued to suffer. A friend persuaded me to try Bile Beans, and hearing
from others also what a splendid medicine for liver and functional disorders
Bile Beans are, I decided to take the advice, so purchased a box. Even the
first dose brought great relief: the headaches eased, and my temples
throbbed less violently. After taking Bile Beans regularly for a few days, the bilious attacks
gradually left me, until they subsided altogether, and the fearful pains of the indigestion also
vanished. Bile Beans seemed to root the complaints that had made my life practically a misery
completely out of my system, and I now keep them always in the house as a family medicine,
and speak well of them always.”
The Standard Family Medicine
BILE BEANS are a true
and reliable ■family
medicine, and valu-
able for old and
young of both sexes.
A supply should al-
ways be kept in every
medicine chest ana
a dose taken on the
first signs of a head-
ache or any stomach
trouble. An occasion-
al dose of Bile Beans
wi I help you to keep
healthy and strong.
Sold atl/li and 2/9 by
all Stores & Chemists
ile
eans
Beauty’s Favourite.
The article which excels all others
in improving the beauty of the skin
is naturally and deservedly beauty’s
favourite. This has been the
acknowledged and honoured
position held by Pears* Soap for
nearly 120 years. It won, and has
maintained that position by virtue
of its complete purity, and by the
possession of those special emollient
properties which soften, refine,
and impart natural colour to the
skin. No other soap possesses
these qualities in such a pre-
eminent degree as
PEARS
Matchless for the Complexion.
Sweethearts Still.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
SO, Sweetheart Once, you thought our
love was but a passing phase
A transient thing that would not stay
to haunt us all our days.
You thought that living love like ours, that
never knew alloy,
Could fade and die because we quaffed the
wanton wine of joy 1
Can eyes that saw the rainbow tints —and
saw them, oh ! so plain—
Turn from the lights that lit our land to
Darkness once again V
Can feet that trod the Primrose Path —no
matter where it led —
Go back to trudge the Proper Way amongst
the living dead?
Can arms that stretched imploringly, that
passionately clung,
Droop by your sides like leaden limbs while
still your heart is young V
Can burning kisses, that your lips imprinted
on mine own,
Forgotten be because the chance to kiss
again has flown?
I went my way—the same old way that
pagans went before —
Because I knew to linger meant to love you
more and more!
Because the flow’r that Youth has plucked
must only droop and die,
l said not “Au revoir,” my dear, but “Once
for all, good-bye.”
The tears were shining on your cheeks; my
heart had turned to lead —
But oh! the star that bade me go shone
brightly overhead!
You snuggle in another’s arms; but ever in
your dreams
That wanton, wayward, wand’ring star like
Flmo’s beacon gleams !
We had our loves, our early loves, that
faded with the past,
But when we met, the love we knew might
well have been our last.
For through the later love its burns, and
sears them with its flame,
Till all your wedding robes become the scar-
let cloaks of shame !
But go your way, who loved me once, and
take this for a sign
That though our muffled voices call, and all
the Fates combine
To draw us each to each again in dark for-
bidden ways,
I shall in silence pay the debt the Haunter
ever pays—-
The awful debt of loneliness, when in an-
other’s arms,
The love I had and flung away expends its
sacred charms.
’Twere better had we never met —and yet
that little while
Was worth a million years of love in Ortho-
doxy’s style!
’Twas worth what we have suffered since,
in silence, and alone!
’Twas worth what we shall suffer yet—to
all but us unknown!
'Twas worth it all—ten score of times ! And
yet—and yet, to-day,
I almost wish the Fateful roads had turned
some other way!
No, Mine of Old, our love was not a lightly-
passing phase—•
A transient thing that could not stay to
haunt us all our days.
We loved —and oh ! such love as ours would
never brook alloy,
Nor fade and die because we quaffed the
wanton wine of joy.
Ah, Sweetheart Once, your memory pro-
vokes the old mad thrill. . . .
You’ll go your way, and I’ll go mine— but
we are sweethearts still!
N.S.W.
GILROONEY.
The Babe of Tauakira.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I HAD more than a suspicion that I was
bushed. Hartigan had said I should
come out on a ridge by 8, and here it
was close upon 4, and I was still struggling
through dense scrub. Hills, sky, everything,
were shut out by the impenetrable foliage.
Suddenly I broke through a scrub wall,
and found myself in a clearing, and when my
blinking eyes had got accustomed to the
glare of the sunlight, I saw a small slab
cottage at the far end of it. In front was
the wreck of a garden, and right against me
a cherry tree laden with fruit.
No smoke rose from the chimney of slabs
and clay. All around were signs of the re-
turn of the wilderness, and over all brooded
the sombre stillness of the Tauakira bush.
The deserted home had a sinister atmosphere,
and a sense of eeriness made me grip the
billhook a little tighter in my hand as I ad-
vanced towards it.
The ruined door was partly open. I
knocked, but was answered only by the echo
of an empty house. I stepped inside —and
stepped out again more quickly.
For on the floor three skulls and some scat-
tered bones lay in the sunlight which streamed
through the glassless gap of the window.
One skull was little, evidently that of a
child. It made my teeth rattle, and my
knees shook. A feeling of intense depression
swept over me. That little skull was pa-
thetic.
Looking, round I saw that the walls were
riddled with bullet-holes, and on the slab
floor, littered, over with cartridge case heads,
were still discernible dark, wicked-looking
stains. And I picked up a faded red bootee.
I looked round, and the slanting sunrays
called me back to the unpleasantness of my
own position. But the hills rose to my
right, and, far away, just discernible in the
dancing haze, the white flag that marked
Hartigan’s position gleamed like silver
against the purple, of the bush.
• t°°k my bearings, and hurried off, for
night comes down quickly in the bush of
Maoriland’s North Island. Through the clear-
? n ?, ,r s P e< ?> Past some tumble-down out-
buildings, into the bush. There, bearing
always to the north-east, I found the rising
ground, and after an hour’s anxious scram-
bling over slippery roots I made the ridge.
Through the trunks of the open mountain
busli gleamed the fitful flashes of Hartigan’s
fire, and 20 minutes later I swung into
camp.
“Thought you was bushed,’ lie said, as I
threw down my load and reached for the
pannikin.
“We’ll go down and bury them in the
morning,” he said, when I had told the story.
“Fancy ’em lying there all these years! Ter-
rible, ain’t it? I remember the story now,
but I never knew it ended just that way.
“It was when the soldiers was at Pipiriki
that Brown and Monty Piper came up and
bought that land from the Maoris. There
was, of course, Mrs. Brown and the young
boy—he’s the little one, I expect.
“There were more white people about here
then than now, and it was common talk that
Piper and Mrs. Brown were more than
friends. The place fairly hummed with
gossip. Only Brown said nothing—every-
body else talked their heads off. Brown took
no notice. He was a quiet, slow-thinking
sort of chap, but when the last baby arrived
he took Monty outside and suggested it was
time for him to get away. He was afraid
that in about another week he’d lose his
temper, especially if Monty stayed. Monty
looked at him and said nothing, but he got
inside, packed his swag, and left without
saying good-bye.
“When he got into Pipiriki he camped
close to the fort and kept himself to himself.
He gave no explanation why he had left
Brown, but, of course, none was needed.
“The second week he was there came the
Big Rising—came like a thunderclap, in the
form of an attack on the, town by a crowd
of howling Hauliaus, who nearly carried the |
place with the first rush. What a scrap it
was ! The whites used the bayonet when
they had time to fix it; but most of them
just swung the heavy end of the gun, and
after about 30 of the liveliest minutes I
ever saw —and I’ve seen some rough ones —
the niggers were belted out, and what
couldn’t walk were dropped into the river.
“Monty was in the middle of that scrap,
and when it was over he begged the Colonel to
give him just 10 men to go out and save his
baby. The Colonel wouldn’t hear of it. lie
felt certain that every white within 40 miles
had been killed and eaten. So he forbade
Monty to leave the place—he wanted all
good fighters, he said by way of compliment.
“That night Monty was on sentry-duty
with me, right up against the Ilauhau line.
And it was just when the darkness was
about at its worst that he said to me: ‘I
think I can hear someone stirring over
there. I’ll just work a ring on him.’
“And with that he drops down on all fours
and waddles off, looking for all the world
like a big black beetle.
“I waited an hour or more, and then
called to him. No answer. So I crept
out myself and saw some large individual
lying full length under a bit of a bush.
“I plunked a bullet into him without a
word, and when the patrol came scurrying
up we found he was the biggest Maori I'vi
ever seen. He had his throat cut, and wa;
lying stark naked on the grass. His mat-
had all gone, and he had been scalped. But
there was no sign of Piper. Then I took a
tumble.
“He’d gone to see what had happened at
the farm. My hair rose at the thought. I
saw the whole dodge. He was dark, and
only wanted a Maori’s curling hair and
feathers and mats to look a real Maori.
Somewhere there was rushing through the
bush, as hard as he could go, a brown-facet,
white man, wearing the scalp and mats of
a Maori warrior—whew !
“Ten minutes later it was found that
the bush behind the Maoris’ main position
was on fire, and it staved off any further
attack that night. Then a mist fell, and it
began to drizzle —the sort of drizzle that
chills a Maori to the bone and makes him
keep under cover or doubles him up with
rheumatism if he doesn’t.
“When the business was reported to the
Colonel, he said it was desertion, but that
Monty was a mighty brave deserter. The
baby, he was sure, had been eaten at least
24 hours before, and now Monty was in a
fair way to be eaten, too.”
Then the old bushman knocked the ashes
out of his pipe, and said something about
turning in.
“But what happened—how did it end?”
“Oh, it ended all right. We was relieved
and the rebels chased to glory.”
“But how did Piper get on?”
“From that day to this I’ve never heard
of him.”
And there ended Hartigan’s story of the
Babe of Tauakira.
A little later I was running an agency
business in wet, windy Wellington, and
living in a pub, where we sat round the
fire o’ nights and spun yarns. I
told of the Babe of Tauakira, and
produced the bootee. Two lady board-
ers who were present wept. One of
them did it gracefully and the other did it
any old way. Two days later a newspaper
man called on me. He got the yarn, and in
due time it appeared, with touching al-
lusions to the bootee.
A few weeks later I was sitting dejectedly
in my little office, wondering if I was ever
going to do any more busI’ness, 1 ’ness, when there
came a tap at the door, followed by the ap-
pearance of a brown face, fringed with giey
whiskers and gemmed with two very dark
brown eyes—or, rather, eyes of a faded
black. He came in and looked at me
quizzically.
“What can I show you?” I inquired.
“That bootee the yarn in the paper was
about?”
“With pleasure!” I remarked, thinking he
was some curious individual who wanted to
test the truth of the things newspapers
printed, and I gave it to him.
“How much?” he inquired.
“Not for sale. Why do you want it?”
“But I’ll give you any price within rea-
son. I’ll give you £lO, if you like.”
“Well, I don’t like, and I won’t have it.
There’s romance about that bootee.”
“Much more for me than for you !” he an-
swered. “Name your price, man. I’m
Montague Piper.”
And after that there was a hiatus, chieflv
filled in with drinks.
* * * *
“I had been watching the Maori scout for
about an hour,” said Montague Piper. “He
couldn’t scout for nuts. I crept along just
(Continued on next page.)


DO YOU FEEL LIKE GIVING UP?
Does your back ache constantly ? Do you feel dull, miserable
and tired all the time ? Do you wonder why ordinary daily duties
wear you out ? Do you have blue days and restless nights ?
Kidney sickness silently plays out the strongest person. . A
dull, draggv ache in the small of the back will tell on the healthiest
man or woman. And if the kidneys fail in their task of filtering
uric acid poisons from the blood, it leads to painful attacks of
neuralgia, rheumatism, sciatica, gravel, headaches -to worrying
attacks of dizziness, nervousness, heart palpitation, scanty,
painful and too frequent urination.
Don’t neglect weak kidneys. There is danger of running
gradually into dropsy, Bright’s Disease or diabetes. At the first sign
of backache or disorders of the urine, use Doan s Backache Kidney
Pills. A remedy that has cured your neighbors will cure you.
Proved by SYDNEY Testimony*
Mrs. W. Berm, 46 Hanover Street, Waterloo, Sydney, says:-“I am quite convinced that I owe my
life to Doan's Backache Kidney Pills, for this remedy cured me of Dropsy and other disordered
kidneys. My ill-health started with backache, then’l got. urinary.trouble and dropsy. y
achinb the sharp, shooting pains were so bad I would have hot flannels put on to try and get ease.
. n triv as hoDeless A friend advised me to use Doan s Backache Kidney Pills, and I procured
these nills P The first few bottles gave me relief ; and 12 bottles completed my cure lam now quite tree
rf Ind bikaThe and tL secretions are regulated. Doan’s Backache
■ completely and permanently, for I have been quite well for two and a half years now. I cannot sufficie y
praise Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills ; they saved my life.
For sale by all Chemists and Stores at 2/9 a bottle (six bottles, 15/3),
or post free from FOSTER-McCLELLAN CO., 76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
DOAN'S
Backache
Kidney
h
Every Pic tun Tells A Story ;
rm).
■f //,<! Ij : •••-. —7!
vV '■•■ *.
• • *V i _
vV
,C • !
•Tw^A
.1 • %v
• v >
* iO
_ y;
t *
x r/-»:
z
11
V?
vw
r vy •■* •%/ v»
0> **
%j} t' *> **t. ■#• •••
in his track, for I had got behind him. My
trouble was that some of his gang might be
tailing up my course. When he got where
I wanted him, I spoke in Maori. He turned
with a start, and met a blade. He never
spoke. .He had no time. I made sure of
him and scalped him, took his mats, and
pulled his great scalp over my skull cap.
I hurried down to the river, where I threw
my clothes into the water, and donned the
mats. In that disguise I could pass through
the Maori lines without much trouble.
“It took me less than 20 minutes to pass
through them and reach the track that led
to the farm. To make things easy I set
fire to the bush, and tickled up the besiegers
a little.
“But the bush was full of packs of howl-
ing Hauhaus, coming in with plunder from
all quarters, or merely hurrying to take part
in the sack of Pipiriki. Of course they made
a devil of a row to scare the Taipo, so by
the time they got close I was under cover.
I had a great temptation to blaze among
them, for I felt almost certain that some
of them had helped to murder my boy, and if
they had murdered him I knew they had
eaten him. Still there was a chance, so I
saved my cartridges. It was only six miles
to the farm, but, what with the darkness,
the slippery going, and dodging the mobs of
Hauhaus that came tearing through the bush,
it took me three, hours to do it.
“I got mighty cautious as I approached
the farm, and carefully avoided anything like
a track; and at last I stood on the edge of
the clearing, just concealed by the scrub,
and saw about a dozen Maoris feasting, in
the light of a blazing fire.
“I knew what they were feasting on. An-
other crowd stalked in, and were invited to
take part in the feast. There was plenty
for all. I listened, wondering if they would
give any hint of how many they had killed.
As soon as the newcomers had settled down
I worked round to the back of the house, and
made a dash for it. I got in safely, but
there was no living person there. I got
out the way I had come, and, climbing a
tree, waited for the niggers to gorge them-
selves with their feast. Right beneath was
the stable, and, as I sat there watching the
Maoris dropping off to sleep one by one, I
thought I heard a faint wail —mufiled some-
what, but insistent.
“Like a flash I was down the tree and into
the stable, where I was greeted with a
muffled “Yah!” I groped to • the manger,
plunged my hand in and found straw, and
underneath it was the babe, with his clothes
piled on top of him. His bottle was beside
him, and, to my delight, it was still half
lull. I placed the mouthpiece where it was
wanted most,. and then I watched the gang
through the opening in the slabs, and tried
to think out a plan of escape. I had not
much hope of Pipiriki holding out, as both
ammunition and food were short. On the
uther hand it was 45 miles as the bird flew
to safety, and nearer 90 the way I would
have to go. But I made up my mind there
was nothing for it but to work through the
bush and strike the Wanganui lower down
at night-time, steal a canoe, and make a dash
for it. But before we went I wanted —oh,
I badly wanted —to kill some of those swine.
“Round the fire they were all asleep now,
save one big brute, who sat with his gun
across his knees, on guard, and every hair of
his head alert.
“And while I wondered how to do for him
he rose, looked round, and loped into the
house. He came out the back way, and pro-
ceeded to have a look round the various out-
houses. At last he came towards the stable.
“I was behind the door. He thrust his
light inside cautiously and looked round.
Then he stepped inside. He never spoke.
He was the deadest Maori you ever saw.
Then I stole out to the fire, and in that
light I reckon I looked as good a Maori as
any' of them. Anyhow they were full of
food, and half-full of drink. I sneaked away
their guns, and then commenced to kill.
Three who were sleeping apart I wiped out
with the cold steel, and then as one sat up
I stepped behind a tree and blew a hole
through him. As fast as I could snatch up
the guns I shot them down.
“They were sluggish and scared, bewild-
ered by drink and noise. and smoke, unable
to see in the semi-darkness (for the fire had
burned low). They thought a regiment was
upon them, and fled howling, dashing into
trees and stumps as they ran One ran to-
wards the stable where the child was. 1
ran with him, and stabbed him as we
bounded along.
“So I got the boy, and, wrapping him in
the shoulder mat of one of the dead Maoris,
I fled into the bush, and soon put a good
couple of miles between me and the farm.
Then I stopped to rest. Hardly was I seated
when I heard a twig crack in the distance.
So I wasn’t alone.
“I found a Huge rata, with a great hole
in its trunk. Into this I slipped slowly,
taking the babe with me, and found myself
in a space as large as a small cave.
“There I lay, and, in spite of all my ef-
forts, went to sleep. When I woke the light
was shining faintly through the opening in
the side of the rata. The boy was still
slumbering; I almost feared he was dead. I
waited to hear sounds from without, but
none came.
“Then the child commenced to cry, whim-
pering weakly, and I realised. he had to be
fed somehow or he would die. So I ven-
tured out prepared to kill him if there were
Maoris about. But no one was in sight.
“I tramped on dofircedly, the babe whim-
pering and hbwling in turns, and then
relapsing into fitful sleep. About o’clock
I looked down from the end of the spur on
to the Maori town of Ivoriniti, which was
swarming with natives to such .an extent
that I knew there had been a big increase in
population. As there was no sign of destruc :
tion I guessed that the people of Koriniti
had fraternised with the rebels, if they had
not actually joined them. My chief object
in life was a cow. I had washed the bottle
as well as I could at a creek, and the babe
was ravenous. But there wasn’t a vestige
of a sign of a cow.
“I tramped on another couple of miles,
keeping off the track and struggling through
undergrowth and manuka scrub, with the
child wrapped up in my mat to keep him
from being scratched. The strap of my
rifle chafed my naked shoulders, and the
flies and the heat were awful. Suddenly I
came to a wall of thick manuka. Down be-
low on the track I could hear the noise of
many voices, but I struggled on through the
scrub till I suddenly blundered into a con-
siderable clearing, containing about 40 cows
—all the cow property of the Koriniti dis-
trict, in fact. Evidently the Konniti people
didn’t trust their friends overmuch. A'Maori
woman suddenly rose from under a detached
bush, and looked at me and the babe in
questioning, wide-eyed wonder. On her
back was the little bundle that told she
Was a mother in being. I put it to her in
her own language that if ever there was a
chance for her to do a good deed it was
right now. , ,
“Well, she took the boy from me, fondled
him, smiled archly, and next moment he
was too busy to yell. As he dined she mo-
tioned me to follow her, and leading the wa\
she pulled up in another clearing large
enough only to stretch ones legs in. There
she sat and suckled the babe until he went
right off to sleep. Then she gave him back
to me and vanished. I sat there wondering
if she would bring an armed party, but in-
stead she brought a part of a pigeon, a piece
of sucking pig, some camp-oven bread, and a
billy of milk. When 1 had eaten, she led me
to a cave, which made a home of a sort.
“I lived three days in that cave, and the
Maori woman brought me victuals and took
the babe to the little clearing for fresh air
and food, and brought him back scrubbed
and freshened up. ,
“At the end of the third day she came
after dark, and leading me down to a se-
cluded nook by the river, showed me two
“ ‘Take the smaller one and go, she said.
‘Once you get to Makirikiri you are sate.
They are all Queen Wickitoris men there.
Tell* them not to kill us when they come, for
the women of Ivoriniti have sent this pake-
ha babe and you as a peace offering.’
“It was a night of darkness and driz-
zling rain. The river was high and ran fast,
and with hard paddling I made good pro-
gress. Passing villages I just drifted so as
not to start the dogs barking. The babe
slept under the mat, with his bottle, heedless
of the gamble in which he was taking so
prominent a part. ’, , ~ .
“The east was just flushing when suddenly
round the bend came a great boat, propelled
by oars. Rifle barrels flashed out, and 1
was watched suspiciously. Then with a
bound the boat came alongside, and a white
officer looked at me inquiringly. I dropned
the paddle, and, grasning the babe, banded
him aboard the other boat. Ihen I tell
overboard. , , ,
“I was rescued promptly enough, and when
1 woke up I was in the camp at Makirikiri,
where the force for the relief of Pipiriki was
being gathered. I gave them the message of
the Maori woman of Koriniti, and hearing
that the child was well, turned over and
Went to sleep. , ..
“Oh, ves, he’s still well. And it was a
good speculation for the people of Koriniti.
It didn’t seem to be clearly proved that they
had done anvthing very serious, and they
got the benefit of the doubt. I think they
also got some cows that the rebels left be-
hind them in their retreat. Yes, the babe
paid a big dividend at Koriniti. ’
C. A. JEFFRIES.
The Song of the Little Men.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A GLEAM of green on a spinning sphere
Half-lit by the sun’s white rays,
And the great Earth wheels to, the
forming year
Down the silent starry ways ;
From the swarming hives of her human
freight—
Palace, and shrine, and den —•
A song streams up to the gods’ high gate,
The Song of the Little Men.
“O Brethren, now is the end of quests,
Life and desires are vain; .
Fold hands, fold hands on your sinless
And back to your sleep again!
We have cleared our hearts of all vice ab-
horred,
Save little deceits and mean;
We can front the stroke of the Future s
sword, ,
With our bloodless souls washed clean!
“We have strangled Ilate, and his vile corpse
sways
With Passion, a prey for birds,
We have pecked at Love with our milk-meek
phrase
Till we slew him with love-like words ;
We have chilled each soul, and its springing
Quenched deep ’neath a prayer-bleak
Yea, purged our life of its fierce desires
And all that the old gods gave.
“Our earth is freed of the sword and lance.
Where now are the heroes born
Who once sprang swift to the peril s chance,
With a joyous laugh of scorn?
They are gone, they are gone, with their
fighting hands,
And breasts that braved the gales,
As they urged their steeds to the unknown
lands — .
To the unknown deeps, their sails; _ >
They are gone, who forced on Oppression s
throngs '
Their stern unyielding will. .
Who made the deeds, and who voiced the
songs
That echo, echo still.
“No voice of old may revive our caste,
No call of the Hero-roll:
Did the phantom legions thunder past,
They could not wake our soul.
‘The meek inherit the. darts,
Brothers, can touch our reign l
Fold hands, fold hands, o’er your sinless
hearts,
And back to your sleep again !
A gleam of green on a spinning sphere,
Half-lit by the sun’s white rays, .
And the great Earth wheels to the growing
year,
Down the silent, starry ways ;
The great Earth wheels through the day
and night,
To spaces beyond our ken;
And deep at her heart is a spreading Might—
The Song of the Little Men.
N.S.W.
HUGH McKAY.


ĥ
c
/•
For STATIONARY
and MARINE
PURPOSES
No
Carburetta
or
Vaporiser.
ħ
No
Ignition
Apparatus.
makes the following claims upon your attention :
1— It uses cheap lamp oil (such as kerosene), and other residuals.
2 Tire oil is injected directly into the cylinder, Ihus dispensing with unre-
liable and inefficient vaporisers.
3 -It is very simple in construction, there being no electric ignition or other
complicated mechanism.
4 Its speeds are such that electric generators and centrifugal pumps may
be coupled direct.
5 No skilled 'labor is required, the supply of fuel and lubricant being all
the attention necessary.
FULL PARTICULARS FROM
The Westinghouse Brake Company of Australasia Ltd.,
14 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY,
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Club Rum.
A ; '
Dog Head Stout. King’s Liqueur Whisky.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
DINNEFORDS;
Magnesia
h
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see that
“Dinneford &Co.”
it on every bottle
and label.
The Physician’s
Cure for G'out,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
ES
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn,
istion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
ĥ
IS
m
OTHER MODELS
From 7/6 to 40/-
ħ
3XIUM ahDOIVAVO 33H3 V HO:
ALLAN & Co.,
fins Street, Melbourne,
And also at BENDIGO de GEELONG.
Matchless for Biliousness
A severe spell of biliousness, with the accompanying throbbing
headache, is the most wretched affliction ; one feels so helplessly
ill and miserable. But there is one supremely effectual remedy,
but for which the world would have been a less happy one.
Cockle’s Antibilious Pills, honoured by inclusion in the British
Pharmacopoeia, have been prescribed by doctors all over the world
tor more than a century, for
Biliousness, Indigestion, Flatulence,
Loss of Appetite, Sick Headache,
and all symptoms of Constipation.
Well Regulated families
dealing with them in the early stages before they have become dangerous
or chronic. Well regulated families are careful to have always a sound
reliable immediately available, and as experience has clearly proved
the undoubted superiority of Beecham’s Pills as a family medicine a bo* of
this invaluable corrective is always kept at hand. For removing such
d ‘ s , tr^ sin f. dl f. orde f s . as Dyspepsia, Biliousness, Liver troubles in General
and Constipation, it is ever the wisest and most satisfactory course to
Jake
T !^. rem ? dial properties of these pills, however, are not
EfliS tfiuZL d,ge l ,ve troubles alone > but exercise a specific and
awaittitfc lfn UP r n . e n - erVOUS System ‘ Well regulated families are
dkea9p h f?nmtht if ZZH™’ "° r ? ny more certain means of banishing
disease from the household than may be secured by a judicious and regular
use of
Bccctam’sTills.
Sold everywhere in boxes, price ///i (56 pills ) & 2/9 (168 pills).
sk?
m
mk
%
sw,
'fsb
OSTRICH TIPS
3 r <>r 10/-
Black, White,
Cream, Natural, or
Black tipped with
White.
(Length, 10 inches.) Post
Free to any address.
Worth twice the money. Write
to-day. Send Postal Notes.
Catalogues Free.
MILLER'S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY ; also at
Corner of Bourkeand Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention Tun ISiiixktin.J [5
V
During the Progress of our GREAT REMOVAL
SALE we are offering the following— i—■ —
60 6 10 0
Usual Price. Sale Price
Double - Barrelled, Breech - loading
Guns, engine-turned rib, left bar-
rel full choke, right modified, re-
bounding locks and pistol grip.
Trial .. • .. .. ..£5 2 6 £3 12 6
Single-Barrel Duck Guns, large bore,
to kill at 100yds. Trial .. .. 8
Single-Barrel, Hanimerless, Breech-
loading Guns,choke bore, excellent
stock. Trial 310 0 117 6
Double - Barrelled, Breech - loading
Guns with Greener patent wedge
fastpross bolt, choke bore, walnut
stock, pistol grip, patent cartridge
ejector. Trial 510 O 417 6
Special Pigeon Guns, with patent
side clips, file cut rib, top lever,
choke bore, specially selected wal-
nut stock. Greener patent wedge
fast cross bolt . Trial .. .. 10 0 0 710 0
Mauser Principle Rifles, 22 calibre,
kill at 300yds. Trial
15 0
13 6
Guns by All Makers in Stock.
Write for Special Sale Catalogue.
ALL ORDERS FOR GUNS AND RIFLES DE-
LIVERED CARRIAGE PAID TO ANY ADDRESS
IN AUSTRALASIA.
£mall Arms Co.
Gunsmiths & Importers-
-24-2-24- Bourke Street, MELBOURNE
•‘LINSEED COMPOUND” for Coughs and
Colas. Loosens phlejnn. Allays irritation.
mg g
Borated Goldenseal
Compound
A safe and simple remedy for
Bronchitis, Catarrh, Hay Fever
Inflammations, Irritations, ulcer-
ations of ALL mucous membranes
or linings of the nose, threat,
stomach or urinary organs.
AT CHEMISTS
Why not cure yourself .
Treatise wi th jach bottle
or mailed on request.
Tbs Evans Chemical Co.
Ciacinnati, Ohio.
U.S.A.
ASTHMA CURE
ERiMAOLrS INDIAN CiGARFTTFf? |
by £*S% A X* f %* wdian s2st
CANT
B
BEAT
RIAR
CBB
ALL SHAPES
l/-EACH POST FREE IA
Quality Not Better
in a
Gumea Pipe
r MICK SIMMONS
sro/vey.
W STOREK££P£RS4 TOBACCORLST. f
SHOULD SOVD FOR OUR TRADE USr
THREE WITCHES
CIGARETTES.
W
MORRIS'S I
siec Witches
CMARETTKB
10
for
HUM
HIGHEST GRADE,
5s per 100, Post Free.,
MICK SIMMONS, SYDNEY.
Storekeepers and Tobacconists should
send tor our Trade Lists.
The'Standard Kennedy which has outlived the Centime*.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
in use since 1596.
CURES
Austrian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, Eng.
h
Superior to
INJECTIONS
iCUBEBS and
[COPAIBA*
Cares the same
diseases without
inconvenience
in
48 hours. |
ĥ
ħ
YOU REQUIRE A STIMULANT.
Doctors recommend Port Wine for Invalids.
V.A.V.BudgerreePort
Nature's Gift.
we?
fIAV?
fills this prescription.
(Refuse substitutes.)
Don’t think it is too cheap.
Buy a bottle and compare
with other brands at a greater
cost.
The secret is—we grow,
make and bottle this Wine,
thereby saving you middle-
men’s profits.
If your hotel or store does
not stock “Budgerree Port,”
send us a P. 0.0, for 18s.,
and we will forward you a
dozen properly packed with-
out delay.
VICTORIAN ASSOCIATED
VINEYARDS CO.,
Growers and Merchants,
Basement, 7S PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
And at 19 McKILLOP STREET, MELBOURNE, VIC.


Prompt Relief
from Rheumatism
LUMBAGO, SPRAINS,
AND ALL. ACHES AND PAINS
Assured by Applying
r
S T JACOBS
h-OIL^J
VHHI Sold everywhere. nHHHBBfIr
THE LONE HAND offers you the Glad
Hand. It’s the Right Hand, and a week
after publication there are none left.
ELECTROMOTORS LIMITED
Manchester.
COMPLETE INSTALLATIONS of ELECTRIC POWER
PLANTS IN WORKS, MILLS and FACTORIES.
Queensland Government Printing Office equipped with 58 of our Motors.
Australasian Agency :
T. K. STEANES, 39 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. B
Fibro-Cement
WHAT IS IT? Portland Cement, rein-
forced with. Asbestos. It has the strength and
durability of concrete, and the cool and fire-proof
quality of Asbestos. It is, therefore, strong,
light, durable, cool, ant- and fire-proof, artistic in
appearance.
Made In Slates for roofing, Red, Grey and Purple.
In Sheets Bft. 2£ln. x 4ft. for Walls, Lining
and Ceilings.
Used by the Australian Governments ; also for covering
Churches, Villas, Homesteads, Dairies, Silos, etc.
Write for Illustrated Catalogue “ B ” to Sole Importers,
JAMES HARDIE & CO.,
Circular Quay West, SYDNEY ; and
581-583 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
The bulletin post cards-Ncw
Series. IV.. V., VI. Packet of Twelve, 6d ;
Packet of Ten. sd.
WOLFE’S
The Family Stimulant.
FOR MEN
FOR WOMEN
SCHNAPPS
“SENTINEL
JUNIOR,”
SIMPLE
ENGINE.
DIRECT
DRIVING
A DYNAMO
FOR
ELECTRIC
LIGHTING
PURPOSES.
h
SEND FOR CATALOGUES.
SENTINEL
IMPRESSORS
Highest Economy
Special Designs to meet all requirements.
HIGH-SPEED ENGINES
Economical in Steam Consumption and Thoroughly Reliable.
HIGH-PRESSURE STEAM TRAPS
The Best High-Pressure Trap now in use.
Feed Water Filter S Oil Separator
ĥ
Simple and Efficient, with large Filtering Surface.
82 Pitt Street, Sydney; Prelfs Buildings, Mei-
> bourne; and 228-50 Elizabeth Street, Brisbane.
ENGINEERS,
IRON FOUNDERS,
BOILER MAKERS,
\'■ ‘ -
&Gij &Gi
HEPHAN FERGUSON
PROPRIETARY LIMITED.
Governino Directors
ħ
Office and Works:
ill jn
Gordon St., Footsc
Manufacturers of
WROUGHT IRON,
CAST IRON, and
STEEL PIPES.
Centra/
f 323€
15221
h
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LIMITED-
AGENTS FOR ERNEST SCOTT & MOUNTAIN, LIMITED , GATESEND ON TYNE, ENGLAND.
•162 Clarence St.,
rrr^
. :
Pour-Stamp Nissen Mill
FOR MODERN MILL WORK.
NISSEN STAMP MILLS
The Nissen Stamp Mill represents the Gravity Stamp in its simplest torn, with
greatest crushing capacity—Two Nissen Stamps are equivalent to five ordi-
nary stamps, combined with high operating efficiency, with minimum of power.
TWO OF ITS SPECIAL FEATURES ARE:
The Independent Circular EVlortar Box. Circular Stamp Screens.
YOU OWE IT TO YOURSELF TO INVESTIGATE.
ĥ
' <,
mm. a
Engineers and Machine Merchants, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
BRUCE PEEBLES & CO. Ltd.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS, EDINBURGH.
Contractors to Natal Government Railways, Shanghai Municipal Council, Durham Collieries,
Metropolitan Borough, Stepney, etc.
ħ
Continuous Current Dynamos and Motors,
Turbo Alternators, Alternating Current Generators.
: ,
Sola
Agents,
George St, Sydney;
525 GoJfins St,
