

The EMBODIMENT OF PERFECTION— D EWAR’S WHISKY
R. G. WATKINS «§fc CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOR
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS' and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
sr
McLaren
Traction Engines.
The Finest Hauling Locos.
535 Kent Street, Sydney,
AND
486 Collins Street, Melbourne.
S.A. Agent: C. C. DELAND, Bowman’s Bldgs., Adel all
ISEL O J 3 3E*.'T.
aWs
Sadleys Orient jjotel.
pIONEEP
X LEATHER BELTING *>>
Guaranteed.
d. C. Ludlow ici & Son, Ld,
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
\
TaKc it back,
I must have—
TON’S
Pint Apple Brand
sdfsdf
CHUBB’S BIAGONAL BOLTS
FIT PERFECTLY.
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets is
recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the diges-
tive organs..
sdf
sdf
TABLETS
INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these speoially-prepared Tablets acts moat
beneficially when taken daily after meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
■wnfofnfay sip 'pyz/y '*/%?).*. yty» hfrryoy '*yj f
-pvy- 'w °?
y jv>
S
A'
s
*
A
A
3
O’
Money advanced upon all Securities at Reasonable
Rates of Interest.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
THIS COMPANY WAS FORMED TO SUPPRESS USURY.
And at MELBOURNE, BRISBANE and NEWOABTLE.
I
1
sd
5 the Queen oM Cocoas
FOI^
Aronft,Strei\gthfrPurit>:
f
For Comfort, Durability
and basting' Satisfaction.
IT IS THE ONE THAT OTHERS CANNOT APPROACH.
THE PARAFFINE PAINT COMPANY, CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLAGE, SYDNEY.
D. S. EVANS, Australasian Manager.
KUPPER LAGER.
THORNE’S WHISKY
and Maturity
a
vd
The Helidon Spa Water Co., in its extensive distribution, has )
placed “the rational water cure” within reach of alh J
BEWHURST 8 HALLORAN, Ltd..
A<Sl ’ nt *
The Bulletin
Vol 32.— N0. 1637.]
[Thursday, June 29, 1911.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


A BIG BOOR SALE IN THE BIGGEST BOOK SHOP.-
■——
Lists of New and Second-Hand
Books Posted to Any Address.
THE STORY OF NATION SERIES.
Pub. ss. ; Offered at 35.; Post Free, 3s. 3d.
AUSTRIA, by S. Whitman.
BARB ARY CORSAIRS, by S.
Bam'-Poole.
BOHEMIA, bv C. E. Maurice.
BUDDHIST INDIA, by T. W. R.
Davids.
CANADA, by J. G. Bonrmot.
CHINA, bv Prof. R. K. Douglas.
EARLY BRITAIN, by Prof. A.
J. Church.
FRANKS, THE, by L. Sergeant.
GREECE, by E. S. Shuckburgh.
HANSA TOWNS, bv 11. Zimmery.
HOLLAND, by J. E. T. Rogers.
JAPAN, by D. Murray.
JEWS, THE (UNDER THE
ROMAN EMPIRE), by W. D.
Morrison.
MEDIA, by Z. A. Ragrain.
MEDIAEVAL ENGLAND, by M.
Bateson.
MEDIAEVAL FRANCE, by Prof.
G. Masson.
MEDIAEVAL ROME, by W.
Miller.
MODERN ENGLAND, by J.
McCarthy.
MODERN 'SPAIN, by M. Hume.
NORMANS, THE, by S. 0.
Jewett.
PARTHIA, by Prof. G. Rawlin-
sftfi.
RUSSIA, by W. R. Morfill.
SICILY PHOENICIAN, GREEK
and ROMAN, by E. A. Free-
■ man.
SOUTH AFRICA, by G. M. Theal
SPAIN, by H. E. Watts.
SWITZERLAND, by L. 11. and R.
Stead.
TURKEY, bv S. Lane-Poole.
TUSCAN REPUBLIC AND
GENOA, bv B. Duffy.
WEST INDIES' AND SPANISH
MAIN, by J. Rodway.
ROBERTSON’S, 238 PITT STREET
(Opposite Sydney
School of Arts).
HUDSON’S
“EUMENTHOL JUJUBES.”
The Great Antiseptic and Prophylactic,
contains no cocaine or other poisonous
drug.
For COUGHS, COLDS, SORE THROATS,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA, and the
PREVENTION OF CONSUMPTION.
The Lancet Laboratory report is conclusive evidence
of the value of “ Eumenthol Jujubes as an Antiseptic.”
The Lancet says Proved to be as effective
bactericidally as is creosote.”
sd
A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
0. The Bronchial
Tubes of a. dis-
sected Lung.
D. A Lobe of one
of the Lungs.
.
iSolcl by all Chemists, post free on receipt of 1/6 stamps.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL COMPANY, LTD., 19 York Street, SYDNEY. Agencies in all
the Australian States, New Zealand, and at 320 Regent Street, London.
THE RED PAGE
Dividing Waters —I. A. R. Wylie (Sydney
Book Club). An English girl marries
a German soldier and troubles arise—
particularly a war between England and
Germany—which divide them. Love
eventually downs Patriotism, and all
ends well. A strong story, with inter-
esting sidelights on the German atti-
tude to Britain.
The Lost Galley : Impressions and Tales—
Conan Doyle (Dymock’s). The “im-
pressions" are pictures of the past, half
story and half history, which are well
meant but not quite successful. The
tales are good.
Perpetua, or the Way to Treat a Woman —
Dion Cathrop vx>ymock’s). A bohemian
atmosphere, Perpetua—of unknown par-
entage and unfailing charm, an artist
for hero, a humorous circus proprietor
and other useful ingredients make a
good yarn.
The Celestial Omnibus and Other Stories —
E. M. Forster (Sydney Book Club).
The title piece and one other are fanta-
sies with something of Kenneth Gra-
ham’s quality. The book will appeal to
those who like The Golden Age.
11. B. Irving —an appreciation by M. E.
Wotton (Cassell and Co., 6d.). A
bright and well-illustrated account of
the visiting actor’s career.
+.
THE PATTERANS.
A little crooked road runs past my door,
All girt around with thoughts and fancies
sweet;
At every turn and twist of it you meet
Some dream that once in youth you dreamed
before;
For every chain is linked with gipsy lore,
And patterans lie buried ’neath your feet.
The patterans lie buried ’neath your feet
(The witched road is full of gipsy lore),
And Romanys are laughing as before
Behind the hedges where they used to meet- —
A fancy—yes, perhaps; but somehow sweet.
A little crooked road runs past my door!
A little crooked road runs past my door ;
At every turn and bend of it you meet
A chal you knew a hundred years before —
And patterans lie buried ’neath your feet!
MAOBILAND. A. GLADYS KERNOT.
[A “patteran” is a sign or trail left by gypsies to
mark their track; “chal” is Romany for a mart.-]
The Sestinette
This form was made ,by E. Perugini out
of the sestina, a Provencal form which has
been applied to English verse by Swinburne,
Kipling and a few others, but never acclima-
tised. Perugini’s bantling was printed
here on 27/4/Tl, and consisted of 16 lines,
each of 10 syllables, arranged in two stanzas
of six lines and one of four lines, with the
rhyme-words of the first stanza repeated in
the second in inverse order, and gathered up
in the third by the aid of internal rhymes.
The form looked easy, and the competition
attracted a good many entries.
The correct form is shown in this, one of
five sent by “T. Ripe” (Tas.)
The “Red Page” says “Please try the Sesti-
nette.”
That invitation seems to me unwise,
For if each native poetaster tries
To grind out sestinettes, ’twill surely fret
The editor and drive him swift to get
A gun to kill those poets off like flies.
A gun to kill those poets off like flies
Would be indeed a useful thing to get,
And rid this world of empty fume and
fret
That form the stock-in-trade the poet tries
To sell as genuine goods to the unwise ;- —
And yet the “Page” says “Try the Sesti-
nette”!
Well, as the “Page” says “Try the Sesti-
nette,”
I am unwise enough to send some “tries,”
So I shall fret if after all you get
A gun to kill us poets off like flies.
All verse forms are artificial; but the
trouble with the sestinette, as with the vil-
lanelle, is that the artifice is transparent. It
needs very fine lines to stand the repetition,
and the repeated lines should fall naturally
into statements which advance the ' argu-
ment. However, the form serves for exer-
cise and amusement.
Most of the competitors neglected the in-
ternal rhymes of the last stanza. F. F.
McK., W.A.S., and “The Blot” sent correct
forms with nothing inside them. E. Peru-
gini’s two entries were labored and without
the grace of his first effort.
A. Orford, F.8.G., A. Howe, A. J. Buck-
ley, and F.L.B. (3) departed too far from
the model. There were defects in the con-
tributions from W. J.T.8., “Electroplate,” A.
Farroll, L. Sparrow, F.E., J. L. Rankin, B.
Bowden and others.
The prize is awarded to A. Gladys
Ivernot for “The Patterans,” printed above.
It does not follow the model in the last
stanza, but is otherwise correct, and it has
a suggestion of poetry. The next best came
from Mrs. Jerome, and needs only a little
repair to be very good.
The form suits “the morning-after solilo-
quy” of the sailor who has been sacked.
Wot were them words the chief mate said
to me?
“Clear out, yeh drunken loafer”?.. .Well, I
cleared 1
I grabbed me well-worn canvas bag and
jeered
At all th’ d—d brass-bounders I could see!
Consignin’ them to ’ell repeatedly,
As down th ? flamin’ wharf me course I
steered.
As down th’ flamin’ wharf me course I
steered
I own I sheer’d about. ..Repeatedly
1 tried ter think: “Wqt could th’ chief mate
see *
In sackin’ me?... I knoo that I ’all jeered!
Wot did ’e say ter me afore I cleared?
Wot were them words th’ chief mate said
ter me ?
H. C. McKay sends this. immoral confes-
sion
And adds a few remarks -
“I have never come across a diminished
sestina of exactly the same form as that of
E. Peruglnl, though Daley has a sestinette
of irregular type (which seems his own in-
vention) in the poem beginning:—
“ T have been dreaming all a summer day . . .
Here, however, the repetition is on the
rhyme only, not on the same terminal word.
Perhaps Perugini’s sestinette would gain in
nexility if he did not insist on all the six
rhymes being crammed into the last four
lines; by omitting the ‘middles’ and leaving
a choice for the terminals much of the mon-
otony of the close could be avoided.
“The sestinette, like the sestina, is (last
in ten-syllable lines, but a relaxation of this
rule might lead to more diversity and light-
ness.. Thus the poet of preciosity can be
imagined dipping his pen in perfumed ink
and inditing :■ —
A SCENTSTINETTE.
Just like verbena,
(Well-nigh unkillable!)
Fragrancy thrillable
In this sestina
My stylus, O Nina,
Has sent, in each syllable!
Has sent, in each syllable,
Passion. Ah, Nina,
Though lost my sestina ■
On bosom unthrillable,
Love is unkillable!
(Just like verbena.)
Just like verbena,
Unkillable, thrillable,
Nina’s Sestina
Has scent in’each syllable!
A SESTINETTE OF HATE.
You ask wliat should I do (who am unkind)
When you are cold and ready for the
grave,
Whence you had gone because of being
my slave!
I, for so long to all your horror, blind—
Now could not e’en a word of pity find —
And would not lift a hand your soul to
save!
I would not lift a hand your soul to save,
Nor could I one regret within me find
Because—because I am no longer blind.
Because —"because I am no more your slave
I would not drop one tear upon your grave!
You ask what I should do (who am un-
kind).
You ask what should I do (who am un-
kind ).
I’d smile and have you buried like a
slave,
And follow you to Hell, and hope to find
You knew I’d lift no hand your soul to
save!
N.S.W.
HELEN JERDME.
Wot were then! words; th* chief mate said
ter me,
W’ich made me wonder w’y at ’im I jeered?
And all th’ d—-d brass-bounders I could see.
As down th’ flamin’ .wharf me course X
steered?
N.S.W.
“ALBATROSS."
THE POET TAKES HIS SUPPER.
I love in oyster-shop to eat my fill:
I love to quaff the fragrant brownish stout,
(Observe the wild foam from the bottle
spout!)
And, best of all, I’m going to dodge the hill.
So here I sit in Paradise until
The rabid Dagoes rise and throw me out.
The rabid Dagoes rise and throw me out
Not yet, however. Nay, my friend, until
The surly waiter happens with the bill
My time’s my own—to quaff the brew, and
spout
Strange tropic poems.. . Spiro, bring more
stout!
(I love in oyster-shop to eat my fill!)
I love in oyster-shop to eat my fill,
And cram the stout Greek’s bivalves down
my spdut;
So here’s until— Great Caesar’s Ghost, the
Bill!!
The rahid Dagoes rise and throw me out!!
VICTORIA.
H. C. McKAY.
Belgian Poetry
“V.V.V.”: The latest volume of the “Can-
terbury Poets” ( Contemporary Belgian Poe-
try, by Jethro Bithell, Scott; Is.) supplies
an introduction to a group of poets, none of
whom save Verhaeren and Maeterlinck (and
he only as a dramatist) are known to the
English reader. A hastily-written preface
does justice to van Lerberglie and Albert
Mockel, two poets of individual genius, and
more than justice to the lesser men, while
unduly depreciating liodenbach; but gener-
alisations like, “Now that Tolstoy is dead
Maeterlinck and Verhaeren stand at the
head of the literature of the whole world,”
and, “the greatest of all French poets, past
and present, is Verhaeren,” are of no critical
value, and show a strange forgetfulness of
a few »names, not yet inscribed on tomb-
stones —ROgnier and Viele-Griffin, for in-
stance —as well as several that are. The
statement that vers Hire was “imported into
France from Germany by Jules Laforgue,”
wrongs Gustave Khan and some greater
names (see the essay in his Premiers Poemes,
Mercure de France, 1897.)
As a translator, Mr. Bithell quails not be-
fore the naturalism of Verhaeren or the
“satanism” of Gilkin, and the merits of
honesty and of literal closeness to his origi-
nals may excuse a stiffness in the handling
of many verse forms. His versions may do
for the homely verse of Braun and for Giraud
and Gilkin, “qui se plaisent h remuer le
fond vaseux des hmes,” thinking to write
like Baudelaire, but as regards Maeterlinck
and van Lerberglie, one can only extend to
cover them, the translator’s plea in the case
of Le Roy—“the weft of his verses is torn
by translation, it cannot be grasped.” Of
course, this applies also to so subtle a metrist
as Verhaeren, but the generous selection here
Englished will give some idea of his teeming
imagery and of his power to visualise a
scene or suggest an obscure emotion, and
only a translator who is a poet can hope to
give us more.
Bithell, at the close of his introduction,
says that perhaps no poem he has selected
has so good a chance of imniortality as a
snatch of song by Leon Mohtenaeken: —
“La vie est vaine:
17n pen d’amour
TJn peu de haine. 7.
Et pUis-—bonjour!
La vie est brbve :
Un peu d.’espoir,
Un peu de reve...
Et puis—bonsoir!”
This has been translated many times, and
George Du Maurief’s adaptation is nearly
as good as the original:—
A little work, a little play
To keep us going—and so, good day !
A little warmth, a little light
Of love’s bestowing—and so, good night !
A little fun to match the sorrow
Of each day’s growing—and so, good mor-
row !
A little trust that when we die
We reap our sowing! And so, good-bye.
“The Street of To-day”
In John Masefield’s latest novel, The Street
of 'To-Day (Sydney Book Club), the fever-
ishly earnest scientist who tackled the sleep-
ing-sickness in Multitude and Solitude re-
turns to London and. foams a good deal at
the mouth. He wants to up-end society,
scrape off the barnacles and set it right,
with Science at the helm. And he proposes
to do this by establishing a penny Bits
paper, and working up an hysteria for reform.
Meanwhile he felt lonely, and wanted “an
asylum for his affections,” so he made love
to the first attractive girl he met, talked to
her at great length in weighty language,
which she seemed to understand; but imme-
diately after their marriage she goes to
pieces, and gives the misguided man a bad
time.
As a novel The Street of To-Day is a fail-
ure, which is a pity, for it contains Ipts of
good things. Here are some sentences from
many which are quotable:—
The trouble with this age is that its men
are too fond of two things —business and
pleasure. It has left thought to women.
Women can’t think, but they sugar the
brains of every man who can.
The train passed from station to station.
It was like life. People got in and out.
There was a jostle. People got in and out
continually. Nobody asked if his neighbor
were in need of help. Nobody looked to see
if the enginedriver were God or a lunatic.
Lionel proposed a theory that all the
great men of the great time, the essentially
English time, had O’s in their names,
strongly sounded. He instanced BosweU,
Johnson, Goldsmith, Hogarth, Reynolds,
Smollett, Gainsborough. And from this he
passed to the fantasy that an O in one's
name is necessary to success in life. It
makes all the difference between Byng and
Nelson.
[This recalls Zangwill’s Without Preju-
dice, on the importance of hfiving an “R” in
your name.]
When Nature wants a thing done she
creates an illusion about it.
“To get an army of soldiers one has to
send round a press and impose a discipline.
But to get an army of voters or set a mob
yelling for reform, one has to corrupt a press
and fan up an hysteria.
“Colin Maunsel was saying that the press
is election beer masquerading as medical
comfort.
“I call it the plutocrat’s halfpenny change
for your money and your life.”
In all the confusion of The Street of To-
Day one can see the idealist Masefield search-
ing anxiously for the way to the Land of
To-morrow; or, as he puts it in the prefatory
verses:—
O beauty, I have wandered far,
Peace, I have suffered seeking thee :
Life, I have sought to see thy star
That other men might see.
And the chances are that a clearer vision
would be given to the Irish bards of whom his
character Naldrett tells that they meditated
in silence and darkness “with mill-stones on
their abdomens.”
The Failure of Missionaries
It is hard to arrive at the absolute truth
concerning Christian missionary work in for-
eign lands, but every now and then some-
thing comes out which points to the evident
failure of the work, despite the glowing re-
ports of the Exeter Hall people. For in-
stance, Putnam Weale says in his latest
book, The Unknown God (Macmillan) —a
story largely concerned with mission work in
China: —
It was a regrettable fact, which no one
thought of denying, that even men who had
become good and sincere Christians, once
they removed from the vicinity of the church
which had received them, gradually lapsed
into their old ways. They were like drops
of fresh water thrown into a great Dead
Sea.
In England in the Soudan, by Artin
Pasha (formerly Minister for Education in
the Khedive’s Government), the efforts of
the Christian missionaries in Egypt and the
Soudan are exhaustively analysed and com-
pared. This is the French ex-Minister’s
summing-up:—
It is perfectly clear that the efforts of the
missionaries are but a drop of clear water in
a sea of black ink!
Philippa Bridges, in The Green Wave of
Destiny (Blackwood) —a story also dealing
largely with the missions in* China —comes
to a similar conclusion. She points out that
Christianity makes no appeal to a race al-
ready saturated with mysticism.—O.C.C.
At a meeting of the Poetry Recital So-
ciety in Adelaide, B. S., Roach suggested
that “Dingley Dell,” the cottage in which
Gordon lived for a while after his marriage,
should be secured by the State —“so that
lovers of Gordon for generations will have a
hiemento to recall the first great Australian
poet.” The hankering after mementos of
departed . poets is a very human weakness,
but what does Gordon want with a memorial
of the kind suggested, while his poems are
read and admired by thousands? Anything
approaching mummy worship in Australia
should he discouraged. The best way to
honor the dead poet is to help the living-
poets.
* * * *
“M.M.A.”: Re Jefferies’ praise of a leg
of mutton, said to have been the first liter-
ary honoring of that joint (“Red Page,”
4/5/Tl). What of Thackeray’s—
But a niqe igg of mutton, my Lucy,
I prithee Have ready at three,
Have it smoking and tender and juicy,
And what better dish cam there be?
Louis Becke, talking about Randolph
Bedford’s complaint against Dorx-ington for
having lifted some 40 lines of his descriptive
matter, says that the ghost of Captain
“Bully” Hayes has a bigger complaint to
•make. The fame of Hayes is largely due to
Becke’s stories in 'The Bulletin, more than 15
years ago. Since then a Mr. Rowe, of Dub-
lin, has served him up hot with plenty of
gore. “Hayes,” Becke says, “was killed on
board his yacht Lotus off the Marshall
Islands, in 1884 ; yet Messrs. Dorrington,
Rowe et al. make him a blood-stained pirate
of the last few years. Rowe’s book, which
was the wildest farrago of rubbish, was
published in Dublin about 10 years ago, and
in almost any chapter poor Hayes commits
more single murders and wholesale mas-
sacres, abductions, etc., than did Teach,
Captain Kidd, Benito or any other of the
old-time pirates. Dorrington treats Hayes
badly. He also falls into the common
error of making Hayes commander of a
steamer in the Pacific and East Indian seas.
He never had a steamer except when he was
a young man on the Great Lakes. And
Hayes was really as mild a mannered man
as ever had a bad name fastened to him by
sensational writers.”
* * * *
The Melbourne Book-Lover states that the
first edition of Miss Dorothea Mackellar’s
The Closed Door and other Verses has al-
most b£en sold out. This paper-covered
volume at Is. deserved its success. Per-
haps other books of meritorious verse which
have fallen fiat would have had better luck
if issued at a similar price.


w ace
Anthony Horderns’ for Fashion 8 Economy
No. 9352— 81ack Glace Silk Shirt
Blouse, pin and half-inch tucks,
long sleeves, fasten in front, 11/6.
m
1854
No. 1854— Stylish Skirt, of All
Wool Tweed Homespun, new
shape, trhnmed Braid. Colors:
Grey, Brown, Navy Mixture and
Peacock, 22/6.
Other New Stvles, 17/6, 22/6,
24/6
No. 116 Cream Jap. Silk
Blouse, trimmed Appliqub
front, fasten back, long sleeves,
nrice 12/=
No. 9353 — Black Glace Silk Shirt Blouse,
fastening- in front, long sleeves, half-inch
and pin tucks carried from shoulder-
through front, 10/6.
No. 644— Coat and Skirt
Costume, of All-Wool
Cheviot Serge, semi-fitting
Coat, relieved panels of self
and fine Rat’s-tail Braiding,
lined Chiffort Taffeta new-
shaped Skirt, Panels back
and front, trimmed Braid to
match ; in Cigar Brown,
Vieux Rose and Petunia,
77/6.
No. 718— Smart'Costume
Skirt, of Winter-weiarht
Cheviot Serge, medium
width, smartly tailored, in
Blaek or Navv, 22/6.
In Twill Melton Serge, 9/6.
A— Useful and Fashionable Folding
Felt Hat. Colors: Navy, Wine, Green,
Brown and White, 4/11.
W*-
few
«/
CSS
b 2
2T16
No. 2716— Striped Delaine Blouse, fastens in front, tucked from shoulder to bust only,
Cream ground and Colored Stripes. In Brown, Green, Fawn and Helio., 8/11.
No. 2644— Colored Bengaline Blouse, fastens at back, nicely tucked. In Green, Black
and Creapi, 8/11.
No. 611— Golf Material Blouse, in Assorted Colors, fastens in front, half-inch tucks, from
shoulder, and carried through, 3/11.
i ti/M
7A°
Z'HlSs i
mm
ifev
2192
4597
No. 2192 — Navy Face Cloth Coat, $ length, Panel back, trimmed to waist with Silk
Embroidery, Self-strappings and Buttons. Collar and revers finished Embroidery to
match, 29/6.
No. 1606—Stylish Herringbone Tweed Coat, f-length, Panel back, tri*t*ied Self-buttons
at back and Side Reinforcements. Collar finished Velvet and Russia Braid. Colors:
Medium Grey and Fawn, 24/6.
No. 4597 — Blanket Frieze Coat, Panel back, trimmed Self-buttons, well tailored,
in Light and Dark Moss Green Mixtures, 18/6.
No. 972— Venetian Face Cloth Coat and Skirt Costume, smartly tailored. Belt effect back
and sides, new shape revers of Plum, Black Satin, lined Cream Silk Polonaise, well-cut
Skirt. Colors : \V.ine, Sage Green, Amethyst, Peacock Blue, 67/6.
No. 164—Smart Velvet Hat, small
drooping brim and full-draped crown.
The colors are : Emerald, Moss, Myrtle
and Brown; Mulberry, Mauve and
Rose, 9/6.
INo. 4993 Smart Tweed
Coat, Panel back,
roll Collar of Black Moire,
Silk Cuffs strapped Black
Moire Silk, finished Black Jet
Buttons, Light Green and
Grey shades only, faint stripe
in soft Blanket Tweed, 28/6.
Til
No. 721— Extra Quality
Panama Walking
Skirt, trimmed Silk
Braid, in Black and Navy,
Other Styles, in All Wool
Panama, 14/6, 19/6.
No. 127— Burnt Straw Hat, trimmed
Moire Ribbon Velvet, 4/11.
Consult our Illustrated Price Lists for anything you
want Write for copies, posted free on request; they
place the immense resources of the New Palace
Emporium at the command of everyone in Australia.
■'
9354
No. 9354— 81ack Glace Silk
Shirt Blouse, nicely tucked pin
and half-inch tucks, long sleeves,
fastening at back, 13/6.
146
No. 146— Useful, Smartly-cut
Skirt, of Heavy Serge, in Black
or Navy ; Panel back, cut with
flounce effect 22/6.
No. 6— Cream Japanese Silk
Blouse, Lace Insertion froiil,
fasten at back, 9/6.
No. 9—Cream Embroidered Japan
ese Silk Blouse, fasten at back, lon
sleeves, 10/6.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
f e'... i
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
Jh
1 4
rr
a
YSTERY
IRTrt I
1
YOU all know the “ man who does the
tricks” at the party—don t you?
Makes everybody laugh, puzzles and tricks
them, and they can’t tell how he does it.
Yon pan be as clever and funnj as he '>} . . ... ,
. tlie u «e of our Tricks, Novelties andMsc Surprises. Very simple if you follow the struct,one with each
Write for Free Catalogue of Makers
of Mirth and Mystery.
The Wonderful Gyroscope and
Mono=rail Top.
Perfect demonstration of the railroad of
the future. This marvellous top defies
the la\Vs of gravity and equilibrium.
Spins in any position—on top of finger,
end of nose, edge of tumbler, etc. Battles
Science delights children, astounds
adults. The more you spin it, the more
it will puzzle you.
Post Free 1/3, or Larger Size, 2/3.
30
Chinese Ring Bar Puzzle.
Endless amusement. The idea is to
remove the handle from the rings. Books
so simple, yet puzzles them all till they
know how. Well made of solid polished
brass. Fits vest pocket. Write for it
to-day, enclosing stamps for amount.
1/- Post Free.
r Y">
\\v\
W
The Wonderful Plate=Lifter.
Will make your friends’ plates and cups dance quite
unexpectedly as they sit at meals. No
one can seethe cause ; works quite im-
perceptibly from the other end of the
table. Shrieks of laughter. 1/- post free.
The Wizard Fortune-
Telling Cards.
Endless interest. Lends
a new charm to pre-
dictin'? fortune. Sim-
ple to use.
Wondrous Disappearing
Handkerchief Trick.
This handkerchief makes anything
disappear. r Very effective.
1/3 Post Free.
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
(H. L. HUTCHINSON, LTD.)
710 GEORGE STREET,
111 KING STREET,
25-27 OXFORD STREET,
SYDNEY.
COLDS
juMgiy**
SANACINE prevents the wasting and tearing of the Tissues that occurs m violent colds,
clears away the congested phlegm, and speedily allays irritation and inflammation of the
respiratory organs, and strengthens the linings of the throat and nose. Colds Influenza,
Lung Weakness, Head and Chest Colds, throat weakness and more virulent forms
of colds immediately yield to the vigorous curative action of Sanacme. A tew doses
taken in the early stages diminish the severity of an attack, and a rapid cure is assured.
fsd
o >
Sanacine benefits
Russian Royal Family
Court Official writes : “Sanacine was introduced
the Russian Imperial Family, and they have found
great benefit from using it,”
f
sdf
S LUNG HEALER
n Invaluable Remedy for
COUGHS
COLDS
ASTHMA
BRONCHITIS
CATARRH
INFLUHNZA
CONGESTION
HOARSENESS
HUSKINESS
SORE THROAT
WHOOPING COUGH
CHEST WEAKNESS
and ail Disorders of the Lungs, Chest, and Throat.
p . . r . R • . Imiiid and Tablets 1/1* and 2/9. Sold by all Chemists. Stores. &c. in Australia.
Proprietors 1 *— ASHTON & PARSONS LIMITED. LONDON. EC, ENGLAND
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1S49. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONET TO LEND
On Security ot Freehold or Leasehold
City or Suburban Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Government Debentures. Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the aus
-• AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
II. W. APPERLY, Secretaiy.
tralian States or, New Zealand _
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent! of the loan durintr any year, without' notice or payment of any fine.
Dm k.ctors —The Hon. A. VV. Meeks. M.L.C.. Chairman : Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman : Benjamin
Short Esq. : The Hon. James Burns. M.L.C. : The Hon. R. J. Black. M.L.C.: The Hon F.E. Winchcombe M.L.C.,
Adrian Knox, Esq.. K.C. Generai Manager ana Actuary : Richard Teece, I'M.A., KPA.,
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau.
Full Particulars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Climate Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Crown Land suitable for Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on
Better Terms than elsewhere in Australia.
Comer of Queen and T. C. TROEDSON,
George Streets, Brisbane. General Director.
Sydney Branch Office at 116 Pitt Street.—Local Director: A. MESTON.
Will Andrade ™ BOOKS.
Plays,
Comedies,
Farces, etc.
The Largest Stock in
Australasia.
Write for new PLAY
CATALOGUE,
al9o Supplementary Cata-
logue of FREE-ACTING
EDITIONS.
SPECIAL AGENT for
Samuel French, London,
and American Publishers.
Art of Boxing and Self-Defence, 1/2 ; Gold Hunter’s Adventures in Aus-
tralia, 1/9 ; Complete Book of Love Letters, 1/; How to Woo,and Win, 1/1,
Astrology Made Easy, 11 ; Money-Making Secrets, 1/1; Minstrel Show, 1/1,
Eight Popular Farces, 1/1; Sixteen Amusing Farces, 1/1 ; 'Thirteen One-Act
Farces 1/1 • Twenty Humorous Dialogues, 1/1; Home Amusements, 1/i ,
“ How’oid Mose Counted the Eggs ” and 110 Other Humorous Recitations,
1/1 ; Famous Dramatic Recitations, 1/1 ; “How Sockery Set a Hen and
other Comic Recitations, 1/1; Famous Dialect Recitations, 1/1; 1401 Conun-
drums and Riddles, 1/1; Art of Ventriloquism, 1/1 ; Hypnotism, Mesmerism
and Cl irvovance, 1/1; Popular Horse and Cattle Doctor, 1/1 ; Howto Teach
Animal Tricks, 1/1; What Young People Should Know, Confidential Talks,
1/1 • Dr. Faulkner’s Original Book of Nature, the only genuine and complete
edition, 3/0, posted 3/9 ; New Tricks with Cards, 1/; House Painting, Paper-
hanging, Whitewashing, etc., 1/2;*3000 Priceless Secrets, 1/8; Irish Jokes
ami Witty Savings, 9d. ; Complete Letter Writer for Ladies and Gentlemen,
1 ; Dancing Without an Instructor, 1/; Lover’s Guide, Courtship and
Marriage, 1/; Bernard Macfaddenis Physical Training, 2/9; Mactadden s
Buildino-of Vital Power, 5/4; Maefadden’s Superb Virility of Manhood, S/4,
Macfadden’s Sweethearts for Lives,-5/4 ; Australian Billiard Champion Gray s
SO-AND ANY BOOK
YOU WANT.
Mention The Bulletin.
Book On Billiards, 1/5 ; Wrestling Instructor,
with 60 Photographic Illustrations, 1/9; Bag
Punching, lOd. ; All Steele Rudd s Aus-
tralian Books, 1/1; Road Map of Victoria,
•i/i.
Above prices include postage to any address. Stamps or Postal Notes of .yij State «ill do.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne.
STEVENS
FAVORITE RIFEE NO. 19
=i
sd
UNERRINGLY ACCURATE.
The Ideal Rifle for Miniature Rifle Clubs.
Same Specifications'as Favorite No. 17, except Fitted with Lyman Front,
Stevens Leaf and. Lyman Rear Peep Sights.
Insist on
STEVENS
when ordering
from your Dealer.
Write for Catalogue to
ARTHUR H. HILL, Australian Represent-
ative for Stevens Arms and Tool Co.,
Box 86, G.P.0., Adelaide, S. Australia.
Send for latest Fire=
arm, Telescope and
Stevens=Pope Cata=
logues. [5
A CLEMENTS TONIC Letter
from the Proprietress of the Beach
Hotel, Williamsftown, Victoria.
Why Mrs. Hayes and her Family Enjoy such Good Health.
Beach Hotel, Twyford Street,
Williamstown, 21/3/ 11.
Clements Tonic Lm back that xwa ttinff <)Ut 0 f sorts or ™ do ™’ back Vmy
very much affected. I fnMi^de,
and,’if it had not been checked, might have led to grand* Jedi-
fortunate in the choice of Clements Tonic, for l have always found a and med
einp Most of mv family are grown up, but iif any little ailment overtakes tnem,
thev always eo Clements Tonic. I think that is why my family enjoy such good
health First they never let a complaint get a hold, second they take the right
medicine - (Signed) EMMA HAYES.”
Here is Another Letter of Gratitude. Read Each Word.
347 Fitzroy S.treet, ■
Eitzroy, 25th Feb., 1911.
Clements Tonic Ltd. the* benefits I have received from your medicine
Plem-enS Tonic It wasearly in 1905 that my illness started. I was under the
thin my friends h^ d to help me tliece ana nac j took a numb er of
&£%SL-£FS? ST:
Si for .ws f£. twelve S I have enjoyed perfect
health. Use this as you think fit. (Signed) MABEL SHRIMPTON.”
_ -V ,* .. . % 1 *' '• * ■**
To Victorian people in any part of the country where medical men are few and a good
lo Victorian people , . Tnnic is the one that should be kept in the
reliable medicine is req “ re ’. ; , sof Constipation, Biliousness, Low Spirits,
house. It never fails " ifl ' “J* sick Headache and Palpitation.
Keep UalwaysTn the house Ail Chemists and Stores sell it through Australia.


We Ask
“WHY I
COUGH?”
m
/5m
Q. What is good for my cough?
A. Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral.
Q. How long has it been used ?
A. Seventy years.
Q. Do doctors endorse it?
A. If not,we would not make it.
Q. Do you publish the formula?
A. Yes. On every bottle.
Q Any alcohol in it?
A. Not a single drop.
Q. How may I learn more of this?
A. Ask your doctor. He knows.
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral
Prepared by Dr, J. C, Ayer &. Co,, Lowell, Mass,, U, S. A*
YOUR EYES!
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
EYE
OINTMENT.
instant
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE IT!
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-. Or by post from
Proprietors, 443 Bourke St., Melbourne.
An
English Doctor
says he never goes
abroad without a .tin
of Cerebos Salt, be-
cause he could always
rely on its perfect
purity, goodness and
fineness.
Cerebos
Salt
Agents —Harrison & Attwood, Sydney.
PATLNIj
Collison&Co.
PATENTS and TRADE MARKS
obtained in all countries.
483 Collins St., MELBOURNE.
Eagle Chambers, ADELAIDE
Write us for Inventors’ Guide.
Established 1877
FOR ALL
BLOOD DISORDERS
fsd
Packets, 3d., 6d. and Is.
MILNERS’ SAFES
have the Largest Sale in the World.
mm
SYDNEY : John Keep & Sons, X>td., Clarence Sr.
MELBOURNE : Briscoe & Co., Ltd., Lit. Collins bt.
BRISBANE : Webster & Co., Ltd., Mary St.
PERTH : McLean Bros, & Rip?- ,
:' / ■ Aus. Nicholls, c/o gydpey Agents.
f
Grandmother Used
BOIMNINGTONS !
For over 45 years Bonnington’s Irish Moss
has been the standard cough remedy. Grand-
mother used it, your mother used it, and
you probably use it yourself and give it to
your children.
BONNINCTOW’S IRISH MOSS.
There is no medicine like it for breaking up coughs and colds, healing inflam
mation in the bronchial tubes and preventing serious lung troubles.
REFUSE SUBSTITUTES —get what you ask for, and ask for
Bonnington’s Irish Moss—there is no remedy “just as good.” [3
Richardson Cushion Frame, Anti-Jar Ball
Bearing Roller Skates.
Used exclusively in all of the largest and most successful l inks in America,
and by all the Champions of the World, fast and fancy. RICHARDSON
SKATES have held all World’s Records for 24 years. Write for Catalogue.
Tells how to open and operate Roller Rinks.
Riohardson Ball-Bearing Skate Co., 311 Michigan Street, Chicago, U.S.A.
‘RICHARDSON
CHICAGO
4/
WE are here to tell your beautiful-faced
women that faces do not attract so
readily as does figure, and we will
gladly tell any woman who writes' us the
secret of how many hostesses and actresses
develop their busts and fill out the hollows of
their cheeks.
The hollow-necked, scrawny-armed and
flat-chested woman is always at a great dis-
advantage, socially, with her full-bosomed,
veil-developed associates. She who is most
fully-developed always monopolises the
DEVELOPING
endearments of the opposite sex, and is a
source of envy to her ill-developed sisters.
If you are flat and hollow-chested, without
bosom, and suffer from attenuation, we will tell
you, free of charge,, how you may develop
your bust and figure to pleasifig proportions.
Thousands of women in similar health have
accepted and followed this advice, and are to-
day, as the result, radiant in the enjoyment of
good health, a pleasing, fully-developed figure,
and a plump, well-rounded bosom.
Attenuated women who have for years suf-
fered the ravages of indigestion, constipation,
biliousness, internal functional disorders, and
various other troubles are numbered in this
category.
We suggest that all lady readers who see this
article will do.well to investigate the truth of these
assertions. Send 2d. stamp, and we will post you
full particulars and a Froe Sample of Treatment.
FALUERE FLESH-FOOD CO.,
1103 ASH STREET, SYDNEY,
Rear Equitable Buildings. [lBO3
sdf
r FOR all ages,^
from the nursery upwards,
HORLICK’S MALTED MILK
is an ideal food-beverage, easily digested,
nourishing, invigorating. It is indis-
i pensable to invalids and the aged, and
gL provides a full diet in sickness.
sd
Especially valuable
in Hot Climates.
Of all Chemists & Stores.
Samples & Pamphlets:
82, Pitt Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Horlick's Malted Mi’k
Co.. Slough, Bucks,Eng.
MALTED MILK
SMOKERS
Can be Cured!
Tobacco specific is a harmless
vegetable remedy that will make the
user of tobacco in any form abandon
the habit for good. It not only destroys the
craving, the desire, the appetite for tobacco,
but restores to health the entire nervous sys-
tem, and aids Nature in entirely eliminating
the Nicotine Poison from the system.
FREE TRIAL.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you a
trial package of this grand remedy, and also
our free booklet. Trial package often effects
a cure.
Frank Ford, Blackall Plains, Queensland, on
May 14, 1911, writes“ I was a smoker from 7
years of a»e, and am now 73. Your Tobacco
Specific has made a new man of me.”
H. SINCLAIR & CO., Dept. G.,
Victoria Arcade, Sydney.
£1573|18|9
at a penny n smile, the cash value
S.r:: The Wayback Series.
RUPTURE
Do you suffer from this complaint ? No
doubt you wish to be cured without operation.
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
trusses ? Then send for our little book,
giving a full description of our
AUTOMATIC
Air Cushion Appliance
by means of which a permanent cure can be
effected. We positively affirm this in spite ot
the many previous disappointments you may
have had. This appliance is something en-
tirely new —is in fact the Best Rupture
Appliance of the Century, and to
prove this to you
WE GIVE YOU TWO DAYS TRIAL
with each appliance that we Bend out. Perfect
comfort and ease irom the first day’s use. No
steel bands to torture or galling pads or
leather chafing understraps. The pad is made
of soft pliable rubber, which presses gently
but firmly on the correct spot.
Full Particulars Posted Free
WINSLOW CO.,
| 349 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
4L
IV
A WISH : .
Let good Digestion
Wait on Appetite
And Health on Both.
“ Montserrat* *
:: :: Sauce
the basis of which is
“ MONTSERRAT” LIME
FRUIT JUICE, helps to
fulfil this cheery wish.
Ask your Storekeeper for it.
Guaranteed free from Preservatives.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A Rondeau of Regret.
My lady smiles and all the world is gay,
Caressingly the breezes blow my way;
The Spring is with me, there are flowers abloom—
This sad old planet loses half its gloom,
go—do I gather rosebuds while I may.
For oh; she smiles not always on me; nay,
She other suitors hath, and ancient; yea,
Wooers with wealth these dotards, be, on whom
My lady smiles.
Alas! my lady loveth glad array,
j Fabrics and furs-and silks, from far Cathay,
And Arctic seas and Oriental loom;
| E’en antiques rifled from some Pharaoh’s tomb ;
j Such do they send her, while (as well she may)
My lady smiles.
.N.S.W.
JOHN WALTERS.
The Quest of Old.
AH the, flowers were lit and nodding,
And a wind was in the trees ;
In the moonlight sat a grandsire
With his grandchild on his knees.
Dawn ahd evening drawn together,
So they seemed, those two at play;
Heart to heart in loving kinship,
Locks of gold and locks of grey.
Ever, as the old man lingered
On the child’s eyes, azure-hued,
Years were nought, and age was nothing—
There he saw his youth renewed.
All around them birds were singing,
Pouring song from throat and breast,
And 1 thought of Vain endeavor
And an old, unhappy quest.
So Ponce de L6on, dreaming,
Sought the Fount of Deathless Youth.
Grandsire, what far seas denied him,
Thou, thyself, hath found in truth !
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
The Husband.
Hither they brought me to behold you dead,
Since hate nor love can reach beyond the grave;
With flowers around your feet and at yoflr head,
White flowers of innocence; though passion red
Was all -you ever asked or ever gave.
They all have bidden me look upon you lying,
And said to me, “Forgive her!” You atoned
By many an hour of anguish and of crying,
And the soul racked you as you lingered dying
With torments of sharp sorrow vainly moaned."
For you were punished ere you ended here,
Tired and .forsaken; you who once disdained
/All that, tve two together held most dear,
To gather shrivelled fruits and flowers burned sere,
Till only,, bitterness and dust remained.
And did your silent lips not wear a smile,
Such as would madden men on lips less cold,
Their corners twisted subtly to beguile,
Tender and tempting!—ah, but all the while
Mocking, as I was mocked in days of old;
And were your frozen breast less richly turned
(Touched by death’s Anger, but not sunken yet)
Wherein I knew such wanton longing burned,
Whereto my own in wild illtision yearned
With pain and bliss I cannot quite forget;
Then could I piteously bend down my head
And kiss your brow; and weep for your distress.
But s'eeing your rounded throat and lips of red
I stand aloof, and say to you here dead,
“You were a liar and adulteress.”
VICTORIA.
PRIAM.
Dobroyde Point-—Fronting Sydney Heads.
Here, iri this nook of sundered stone,
Pacing _dhe illimitable sea, j :
Whose restless" waves eternally
Fret the cliff-foot, we sit, alone
As gods before the world was known.
A hundred sudden feet below
The blue sea sparkles ; o’er your head
Look how the splendid sky is spread,
One royal canopy ! —You know
The kingly color long ago.
A soft air clings to the dark green
Squat clumps of heath, as if in fear.
‘ . How yon , two mighty cliffs uprear
v Ijike bearded warriors, staunch ahd keen,
T 6 guard thfe gateway of their queen'!
And see! beyond the world’s edge lie, .
Over-shadowing, over-bowed,
Terribly-brooding wings of clouds . . .
One tiny sail upon the sky,
Floats like a frail white butterfly.
N.s.w.
FRITZ S. BURNELL.
My Place.
Life is a football field whereon
Contending players sweat and run
Backward and forth ; yet is their aught
Of worth accomplished when all’s done?
This way and that the battle-tide
Through many charges, sweeping, rolls,
With many unrewarded tries,
For many tries unfrequent goals.
To win to’ an opposing goal *
, The" players, full of zeal, contend,
Ana half-way through the foolish fight
The fickle foemen change their end.
.They fall and tumble on the ball,
They kick it hard with either foot,
Or both ; they' sit on it; at times
From hand to hand the sphere they shoot.
And fifteen stone of meaty pride
Burts roughly o’er the smaller. meat;
The feat wins salvos of applause
And swells the runner with conceit.
Sometimes a “ten stone,” backed by brains,
Gives massive meat a mighty bump,
And all the “ten stones” in the field
Upon the prostrate carcase jump.
But in the rough-and-tumble game
I have no interest at all;
For in the scrum of heavy feet
That kick and hack, / am the ball!
N.S.W.
HAMER.


Combination Couch and Bed.
Size when open, 4ft. x 6ft. 7in.
CHANGED INSTANTLY.
< *4 i . <
•'ll' \\
V- * * V
r, *
i- V * V v }
75*
m
CLOSED AS COUCH.
OPEN AS DOUBLE BED.
Commonwealth
Patent 12274.
Cannot get out of order; is
exceptionally strong and durable.
Just the thing for offices,
small rooms, or where an extra
bed is required.
Invaluable for hotels, boarding-
houses, coffee palaces, and similar
establishments.
Can be had fitted with box, to
act as linen press. Three pieces
of furniture in one.
Elegantly upholstered.
CASH PRICES:
In Cretonne, £4 10s.; in
Tapestry or American Leather,
£5 55.; in Rexine, £6 6s. With
Box, 20s. extra.
Patent Rights held by
MARCUS CLARK & Co. Ltd.
SYDNEY.
Rheumatism, Indigestion, Kidney Trouble.
PACE’S INDIAN COMPOUND
May be obtained from all Chemists and Stores, Price
Wholesale Agents: ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney.
Or direct from the Manufacturers, Post Free on receipt of price,
PAGE & COMPANY LIMITED, 117 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
2/6
per
Bottle.
The Goldfields Diamond Drilling Co., Ltd.,
339 Collins Street, MELBOURNE. 79 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Boulder Road, KALCOORLIE, W.A.
Diamond Drilling and Water Boring Contractors.
Sole Manufacturers of The Victoria Percussion Drill. Agents for THE SULLIVAN MACHINERY
CO.’S Diamond Drills, Air Compressors, Rock and Air Hammer Drills.
Drill Carbons and Spares for Diamond Drills stocked. Full particulars and prices on application.
Welsbach ELECTRIC Light
Metal FILAMENT LAMPS
Used in all the best establishments.
SOME OF THE USERS.
s'
Dunlop Rubber Co., Brash Macarthur Ltd.,
W. W. Campbell & Co. Ltd., Clarence St., Sydney.
From all Electricians throughout Australia, and from
Welsbach Light Co. of Australasia Ltd.
302 Pitt Street, Sydney.
390 LONSDALE STREET, MELBOURNE.
102 VICTORIA STREET, WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Proved to Assist Digestion beyond any Doubt or Question
SQUARE SCHNAPPS
ABSOLUTELY
PURE.
3K» >*>-
OBTAINABLE
EVERYWHERE.
The Largest Distillers
in tHe World.
FREEBOOTER
brand
UtOlSTeftEb
SQUARE
SCHNAPPS
IT ij
SOUAftl
WODUCt
Or
HOLLAND
fttTKEftLAftnj 05TIUXSJE5
HOLLAND
N
7A
t
fsd
Don’t worry, don’t
flurry, don’t
fume or fret;
Keep cool —Smoke
an ABDULLA
CIGARETTE.
HI,
I m
■ ■' ■
■
\
Cars for Winter Weather.
Now that the chilly days and bitter nights are on us, motorists are
more likely to appreciate the warm comforts of a good car—deep
and warm seats, and upholstering and snug closed-in bodies.
It is not only the comfort of a car that appeals at this time. The wet
and muddy roads of winter weather are more, trying on the car, skidding
is. more apt to wrench the frame and find the weak spots than ordinary
smooth running.
You want a car that has no weak spots —a car that will run without a
fault in fine or wet weather, on good or bad roads. Any of the following
makes will serve you equally well, summer and winter: —
DAIMLER
(Laundaulette and Limousine Models
now in stock),
DELAUNAY-BELLEVILLE, E.N., AUSTIN,
SCHACHT MOTOR BUGGY
(Good for the worst of wet
and rutty country roads).
Your inspection is invited, or full particulars sent on application.
DALGETY & CO. LTD.,
Motor Garage, 136-138 Phillip Street, Sydney.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,
Vol. 32. No. 1037.
THURSDAY, JUNE 29, 1911.
Puiok 6u.
BASE INGRATITUDE.
If it be true, as alleged, that money is being withdrawn from Australia, it is a matter of great satisfaction. There have been times when this country
required all the money that could be obtained from any source whatever, but that is not the case now. Never before was there such an abundance of capital.
They had much better send their money where it is required.— Palmer’s Sydney Share-Market Circular.
COHEN: “Oh, the injustice of it! Vy, his friends tell him not to borrow any more moneysh from me just pecause he don’t vant it. And
after all the nice interest I’ve let him pay me all these years—Oh, Repecca, the ingratitude of these Christians vill preak my heart.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod,
of Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mos-
man, for The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
Ltd., at the Office of the Co., 214 George-
street North, Sydney, N. S. Wales, Aus-
tralia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES: Business, 1384 Central.
Editorial, 257 City.
TER I/N TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
T’er Annum .. .. fl 6 0
Half-yearly .. .. .. 0 13 6
Quarterly .. .. . . 0 7 0
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin
posted regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communica-
tions to be addressed to William Macleod, Manag-
ing Director.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the
paper ( and, to an extent, themselves) by taking
some care as to methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, ad-
vertisements, etc.) should in no case be addressed to
the Editor, but to the Manager. To send them to
the Editor is to invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters
to anyone by name. “The Editor, The Bulletin,” is
the proper superscription for “copy.” Delay, and
even loss, is sometimes caused by addressing to per-
sons instead of officials. The person may not be
there; the official always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers, %’he right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and , where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” col-
umn all contributions submitted, whether in the
form of Political, Social or other Articles, Verse,
Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially accept-
able), Paragraphs, Letters or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS.
when the address is specified and stamps are en-
closed. But no MS. will be returned, or preserved,
unless these conditions are observed. When MS. is
forwarded without stamps for return it will be un-
derstood that the copy is to be destroyed if not ac-
ceptable. Personal applications for return of MS.
cannot receive attention. The Bulletin desires,
further, those sending MS. to distinctly understand
that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea,
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any pic-
ture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid fop as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
The Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on
account of Messrs. Gordon and Gotcli (wholesale
agents) to Victoria, West Australia, Queensland,
Tasmania and New Zealand; and on account of
Messrs. Atkinson and Co. and liigby, Ltd., Adelaide
—at I//6 per doz. nett.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British
Australasian Office, 115 High Ilolborn, London,
W.C.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town; Dawson and Son, Capetown; The Central
News Agency, Durban, Natal; and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver
8.C.; Irvine and Forsyth, hht Hastings Street;
Norman, Caple and Co., Stationers.
U.S.A. —Isserlis A., Seattle, Washington; Inter-
national News Agency, Los Angeles; Chicago News-
paper Agency, 170 Madison Street, Chicago.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port
Said.
Hong Kong .—Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Singapore. — Messrs. John Little and Co.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size
6%in. x 11/in., will be forwarded on application.
Larger sizes can be supplied if desired.
Postage Rates.
Single Copies, The Bulletin (Registered as a
Newspaper) : —Throughout the Commonwealth, New
Zealand, Fiji, British New Guinea, Norfolk and Lord
Ilowe Islands, liloz. id.; United Kingdom, All Sea
Route, 16oz. Id. — otherwise, Soz. Id., and Sioz. to
10oz., 2id; lOoz. to 1.10 z., 3d; elsewhere., )oz., Id.,
and each additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, JUNE 29, 1911.
THE DESPERATION OF J. BULL.
The text of the Asquith Government’s Na-
tional Insurance Bill is now to hand. It is
calculated, if there is anything whatever in
the Anti-Socialist arguments that Australia
has heard during the past five years, to de-
prive Capital of one of its few remaining
abiding-places. Nothing so advanced in the
way of Social legislation has been put for-
ward by any Australian Government. If
C'ld Age Pensions tend to make the worker
thriftless —a favorite Tory theory a few
years ago —the British Liberal Government’s
new measure should transform him into a
Jubilee plunger ; and if Australian land legis-
lation may, as a deputation of absentees
complained to Prime Minister Fisiier last
week, “almost be termed confiscatory,” this
is unabashed robbery. Nearly 15 million
indigent Britons are to be insured against
sickness, unemployment, etc. To meet the
cost all male employees will contribute
from their wages 4d. a week, and all
females 3d. a week; employers must con-
tribute 3d. a week for each employee, male
or female, penalties being provided for any
evasion; the general body of taxpayers will
contribute two-ninths of the benefit in the
case of the men. and a fourth in the case of
the women. Where the employee does not
receive board and lodging—
If the wages do not exceed Is. 6d. a day, the em-
ployer is to pay 6d. for men, sd. for women ; the em-
ployee is to pay Id.
If the wages do not exceed 2s. a day, the em-
ployer is to pay sd. for men, 4d. for women; the
employee is to pay 2d.
If the wages do not exceed 2s. 6d. a day, the em-
ployer is to pay 4d. for men, 3d. for women; the
employee 3d.
If the wages exceed 2s. 6d. a day, the employer
is to pay 3d., the man 4d., the woman 3d.
All classes in the community working under
contract of service are eligible. Clerks,
butlers, footmen, cooks, valets, gamekeepers,
gardeners, typists, stable boys, tea-shop
drudges and innumerable others whom no
legislation of the kind has considered pre-
viously are included. Furthermore, people
in casual employment (charwomen, occa-
sional caretakers, janitors, night-watchmen
and odd-jobbers generally), as well as petty
traders, and those such as seamstresses who
work for themselves in a small way at home,
may come in to the extent, at any rate, of
securing the Government’s contribution. The
onl" conditions are that the beneficiaries
shall not be foreigners, or. be earning more
than £3 iier week.
* * * *
The minimum benefits will comprise :
(a) Medical attendance throughout life for the
person insured.
(b) Is. 3d. a head annually for a sanatorium fund
throughout life.
(c) 10s. a week in sickness for men and 7s. 6d.
a week for women for 13 weeks from the fourth day
of sickness in each case, and ss. for the next 13
weeks. Members over 50 and under 00, who have
not made 500 contributions, will receive 7s. a week
only for the first 13 weeks, if men, and 6s. only if
women; and if over 60 such members will receive
ss. in both cases.
(d) ss. for the remainder of sickness.
(e) A maternity benefit-of 30s. payable from the
father’s insurance, unless the mother is an insured
person, when it will be paid from her insurance.
Further possible benefits include: —
(1) Free medical attendance for dependants.
(2) benevolent fund for distressed members.
(3) Extension, of period of full sick pay to 20
weeks ; increasing sick pay either in all cases or in
the case of married inep with large families.
(4) Convalescent allowances in selected or neces-
sary cases.
(5) “Pocket money” for men in hospitals or con-
valescent homes, who are being paid for.
(6) Additional invalidity or superannuation bene-
fit, or addition to old age pension.
(7) An extension of the maternity benefit.
The Chancellor estimates that the State will
find 5i millions, the employers 10 millions,
and the employees 12 millions, to finance the
scheme. So that when the 13 millions ster-
ling which the Treasury already provides for
Old Age Pensions is thrown in, and when
the fact has been allowed for that the cost
of such schemes is always under-estimated,
the State in Britain will shortly be finding
not less than 45 millions per annum for its
indigent classes. To emphasise all that this
means, it is enough to say that henceforth
Britain’s poor relief bill is going to be over
five millions in excess of its Naval Estimates
for 1910-11, twice the sum of the Army
Estimates, and more than a fourth of the
entire National income for last year. Yet
the Bill “was received by all political par-
ties' with warm sympathy.” The Anti-So-
cialist has omitted to sound the usual howl
of warning. The “employing classes” have,
practically speaking, not said a word. The
mysterious capitalist, with the vast unspeci-
fied investment in view, has not confided to
any newspaper his decision to remove his
cash to some less demented country. The
bitterest opponents of Lloyd-George, the
best-hated Liberal statesman since W. E.
Gladstone, are silent. Why? What does
it all mean?
* •* * *
The answer is that the United Kingdom,
after half a century of Freetrade, is up
against the grimmest industrial crisis in its
history; that the leaders of the nation —
social, political and financial —know it; and
that, on this question, they are closing their
ranks, regardless of party strife, as they are
accustomed to do when a big war or other
overwhelming national peril strikes the
country. Last week London saw such an
outbreak of lavish expenditure as it has not
known in its history. There were folks who
cheerfully paid out for a box at a pageant a
sum which, invested, would keep a family for
life. A single ball was scheduled to cost
£BO,OOO. Altogether, according to a reliable
estimate,' 20 millions sterling changed hands
in cqnnection with the Coronation. It has
an impressive look on the surface, and the
letters of Australia’s London correspondents
are full of excited cries concerning the wealth
of England. Such things are no more indica-
tive of the material well-being of the nation
than the fact that Louis XIV. was able to
spend £40,000,000 on the Palace at Ver-
sailles meant that France, as a whole, was
wealthy in his time. In twentieth-century
England as in eighteenth-century France,
the wealth is in too few hands for the na-
tional safety. It is nearly 10 years since
a great English authority mentioned that
30 per cent, of the British people were per-
manently either starving, or on the verge of
starvation. Despite the fact that immi-
grants have been pouring out of the country
at the rate of 100,000 yearly, the position, as
regards unemployment, has grown steadily
worse. The hungry rabble can no longer be
brushed aside with the counsel to eat grass.
They have had enough schooling to know
their power. The insane fiscal system to
which their country clings ensures that there
shall be no work for a vast number of them.
Their rulers —the people whose duty and in-
terest it is to preserve the Throne, the Con-
stitution and law and order generally—are
accordingly faced with the task of either ren-
dering the lot of the very poor less awful, or
coping with a revolution. Britain’s well-
to-do classes are silent before the most com-
prehensive grab at their banking accounts
on record, not because they are more gener-
ously disposed or *more pitiful towards their
country’s submerged fourth than they were,
but because at long last they glimpse the
truth that now is the time to hand out sops
—pensions, invalidity and unemployment,
insurance money, and so on—-or stand to lose
everything.
* * * *
In the circumstances the voice of the local
Freetrader on this subject has a weird sound.
Said Melbourne Argus last week: —
Nothing could more convincingly demonstrate the
general confidence felt in the healthiness of British
trade and ■ British industry than the fact that re-
sponsible Freetrade Ministers \have proposed such a
scheme, and that a tariff-reform Opposition hast ac-
corded to it a sympathetic reception.
It is equivalent to warmly congratulating a
one-time champion athlete inasmuch as,
though he has both legs broken, he may still
hope to get about with crutches. The fact
is, the unprotesting silence of Anti-Socialism
in face of this situation does not mean en-
thusiasm or approval; rather is it the grim
silence of the garrison which watches the
Forlorn Hope go but on its mission. The
British Chancellor got the basis of his
scheme from Germany, where something like
it has been in successful operation for nearly
a quarter of a century. Germany has three
inhabitants to Britain’s two; yet the num-
ber of workers sufficiently ill-paid to come
under the scheme is the same in both coun-
tries. And in the Protected country the
employers and employees are able to provide
all the insurance money between them, the
State not being levied on for " farthing. One
of the things that is going to kill the Lloyd-
George scheme in its present form is the
circumstance or tragedy that three-fourths
of Britain’s indigent toilers, unlike those of
Germany, do not earn enough to give them
a hope of finding even the paltry sum
which is required to earn the Government
contribution. A few years ago, in North
Devon, the writer knew a sober and indus-
trious agricultural laborer who earned 9s. a
week and no more. The Scotch and Irish
crofter who contrives to belt half a sover-
eign a week out of his holding is lucky. Mil-
liners and “show” girls or models, who,
abroad, get the equivalent of 255. to £2 a
week, command gbout one-third of those
figures in the United Kingdom. There are
hundreds of thousands of factory hands and
shop-employees all over Britain whose earn-
ings only just avail to keep body and soul
together. The payment of the few pence a
week that means little to the comparatively
well-paid German must represent to these
an economical impossibility. Now,
though there is legal compulsion on the em-
ployer to stamp his employee’s ticket, and on
the State to pay its quota, there is, and can
be, no law compelling the worker to contri-
bute. It is quite certain, therefore, that
a vast majority of those who most need in-
surance against want and sickness will be
unable, no matter how willing they may be,
to nay their share towards it. The Govern-
ment must consider accordingly whether it is
better to divide the cost between the em-
ployers and the State (or in those cases
where there is no emplover, cast the whole
burden on the taxpayer), or put up with
the appalling industrial condition that has
led to Lloyp-George’s latest Bill. In other
words, Britain must shortly choose between
a fiscal system which will provide the wages
that are paid in Germany, America and Aus-
tralia, or take such a plunge into Socialism
as Adipose never dreamed of in his worst
nightmare.
THE PEOPLE WHO LOOK THROUGH
THE RAILINGS.
The first post-and-rail fence marked the time
when the earliest claimant arose to assert
his right to some good thing which he had
cornered, and meant to keep to himself. He
did not build a wall, because it added to his
pleasure to have other members of the tribe
looking enviously through, and he trusted to
the weight of his club to keep them from
climbing.over. The idea of the fence caught
on and became popular, and in due time
was brought to Australia, together with a
mass of other customs and devices. For
some generations the State of N. S. Wales
has thus reserved a vice-regal residence
with spacious grounds for the use of a
Governor appointed in Britain. The build-
ing is one of the finest in Sydney, pic-
turesquely placed by the water-front, sur-
rounded by all that can charm the eye, Oc-
cupying a central position near to the busiest
thoroughfares, and yet removed from the
dust and noise of the town. The alleged ser-
vice which the official who occasionally lives
in the stately house renders to the public is
the maintaining of “the bonds of Empire.”
In actual practice his business is to be
a figure-head upon State occasions, and en-
tertain from time to time a small number of
wealthy people. The rest of the people pay
the cost of the show, and look through the
railings.
* * * *
The British lion is frequently represented
as wearing a chain ; the kangaroo in the em-
blematic stone-work in front of the Sydney
G.P.O. has the same adornment. Chains,
bonds, fetters, links, and anything short of
plain handcuffs, are the regular stock-in-
trade of the Tory orator. Curiously enough,
he never refers to railings ; yet railings are
characteristic features of every true Tory
landscape. For ages the glitter and show
of courts and courtly functions has kept a
vast number of people idly employed produc-
ing something which is in effect nothing, be-
cause it has neither economic, artistic, nor
moral value. Kings, princes, ecclesiastics
and millionaires spread their pomp of osten-
tatious display, build their palaces and man-
sions, fence in their elaborate parks and
gardens, and kill time with splendid revels
which add nothing to the wealth or hap-
piness of the world. The people plough the
fields, gather the harvest, grind in the mills,
take the big risks of mine and ocean, and
laoor unceasingly with sweat of hand and
brain. As a reward they are allowed a
mutton chop for breakfast, an occasional
dress for Mary, and the privilege of paying
for the mansions, palaces, parks, processions,
carriages, crowns, dresses, champagne, and
all the other simple necessities of the idle
people whom they support. For themselves,
they live in grimy brick terraces, rude bark
humpies, or, at best, in jim-crack cottages
with stucco fronts and enough ground about
them to grow a sickly geranium and a dozen
blades of grass. Their place in society is
definitely and clearly laid down. The splen-
did show goes on, and the people pay the
cost and look through the railings.
* * * *
The other day a vast concourse of people
assembled in London to witness the corona-
tion of a not very new King. The cere-
mony is a quaint survival of the past, and
one surrounded upon all sides by weird pan-
tomimic devices which have come down from
barbaric ages. The fact of the kingship it-
self is one with which we have little quarrel.
It is part and parcel of an extended system
of government, and represents a compromise
between old systems and new. Wise men
have seen fit to accept that compromise, and
keep silent. But the mummery of the cor-
onation of the King is a very different mat-
ter. All the tinsel display of the days of
despotism is there loosed for an hour. The
spirit which sent men to grovel in the dust
at the feet of an Oriental emperor, and taught
them to centre their lofty ambitions on a
ribbon, a star, or a gaudy patent of alleged
nobility, has here free scone. The glitter of
the Field of the Cloth of Gold is revived ;
and grave statesmen who have set their
hands to the mighty work of the nations are
expected to feel themselves honored in par-
ading as royal lackeys. Processions fill the
streets with military pomp and display, and
gilded coaches of State drag titled and jew-
elled persons from palace to palace. In the
centre of all is a lump of gold, set with
gems, and hammered into grotesque emblem-
atic form. To place this gew-gaw on the
head of the Sovereign the whole resources ol
the Empire are taxed. The King has al-
ready held office for some time, and no one
dreams that the placing of a curiously-
wrought hat on his head will make his
tenure of the throne more secure, or his effec-
tive occupancy of it a whit better. The
Empire has nothing whatever to gain by the
procedure. On the contrary, the cost of the
function is enormous, and its effect is to call
together and stimulate all the dying relics of
the past which have long lagged superfluous
on the world’s stage. The person of blue
but somewhat scanty blood can here assert
his superiority over the mere sons of the
people. The snob in office can inflate his
chest and glory in the fact that he is al-
lowed into an inner circle which breathes
the same air as the King. Every hoary and
exploded theory, from the divine right of
kings downward, is galvanised into momen-
tary life. All sham things which can show
a record of age are allowed to vaunt them-
selves over the living realities. But the
people—the people who pay for all—-have
no part or lot in the extraordinary affair.
Their place is outside. The splendid absurd-
ity rages in their midst, and they look
through the railings.
* * * *
With the coronation itself Australians
have little enough concern A few thousands
have gone to London to look on from with-
out, and a score or so to enter the fringe
which surrounds the charmed circle of the
elect. A few lamps have glittered in the
streets, and there has been a rather forced
and fitful display of not wholly insincere “loy-
alty” ; but the matter does not touch us
greatly either for good or evil. And, in any
case, we have seen the end of it for perhaps
many years—it may be a quarter of a cen-
tury or more. The railings that have been
set up for the moment around the King and
the Ministers masquerading as lackeys have
been pulled down and hurried out of the
way, and the people no longer push their
noses in between and bleat their notes of
exclamation. But the other railings remain:
the railings symbolic of almost the same
things, which shut the people out from the
most picturesque part of the Sydney Gar-
dens, the choicest slopes of the Harbor fore-
shores. To the Tory mind, of course, their
removal is nothing short of sacrilege. The
pathetic picture of the homeless Governor,
bereft of all the best that the State can af-
ford, moves the Tory almost to tears. In the
railings round Government House he sees
the fence which guards his own privilege
from the assaults of the mob without. He
feels that if that fence once comes down
there is no barrier between him and plain,
hard truth. But Australia is willing to
make sacrifices for the public good, and the
readiest and most acceptable sacrifice she can
hoist upon the altar is the privilege of fat
persons. So the railings must come down.
THE REAL PERIL.
Mr. Angell proves war to be an unprofitable game;
that under no circumstances can it ever pay the con-
queror ; that under all he must lose.
It is a great book ; a glorious book to read. It is
a book pregnant with the brightest promise to the
future of civilised man. Peace—not the timid,
shrinking figure of the. Hague, cowering under the
sinister shadow of six million bayonets—appears at
length as an ideal possible of realisation in our own
time.
Thus Acting-Premier W. M. Hughes,
cheeriest of optimists, in a Sydney Tele-
graph article. He has found a book which
solves the world’s greatest problem. If
only enough people read this Volume, which
may be bought for a few pence, the night-
mare of the nations will be exorcised for
ever. The mighty game which has in-
spired three-fourths of the world’s poetry,
thousands of its greatest novels, and much
of its Art; the only trade which Kings and
Emperors may engage in with honor; the
institution which gives meaning to gorgeous
uniforms, martial music, glittering swords,
and the rest of the trappings of Heroism,
has been found out. It does not pay. Any
year-book supplies figures whicn prove the
rottenness of war as a business proposition.
Thus the Transvaal affair cost the Empire
250 millions sterling. What has the Empire
to show for that vast outlay? A few mod-
erately-paid billets for more or less superflu-
ous British politicians and officials; the re-
placement of the tri-color by the Union
Jack; a new splash of red on the world’s
map—poor things for a tenth of the money.
None of the wars of the past decade com-
pensated even the winners for their losses.
And this is the general rule. Furthermore,
there is the ever-present and hideous risk of
defeat, with all that it means in loss of cash
and prestige. Since war is demonstrably
bad business, W. M. Hughes agrees cordi-
ally with Angeix that it must cease. It
has lost its case, and is due to bo bumped
out of the world’s Court of Appeal.
* * * *
The trouble is there are other factors be-
sides the business factor. One may say that
no modern nation has deliberately and con-
sciously gone to war as a business specula-
tion, pure and simple. It is true that wars
—most recent wars—-have been engineered
by cute financiers for business purposes. But,
since it is no longer the Kings or Emperors
or statesmen wdio declare for w T ar (indeed,
their energies are mostly addressed to avert-
ing it), but the people, the nation requires
to be hypnotised in some way before the
business magnates may achieve; their object.
The spell-binders on whom the great stock-
jobbers and share-riggers confident!” rely to
precipitate the required trouble, are almost
invariably those who call themselves “Im-
perialists.” Their power comes from the
spread of elementary education, and the con-
sequent prevalence of newspaners, and not
from any intrinsic force or ability of their
own. Indeed, the immemorial type of Em-
pire agitator of British extraction is Bruce
Smith. He has a faculty for music-hall
braggadocio on the subject of the Flag
(meaning the British flag), the battles it
has faced, and the gore it has - caused to
flow, that trenches on genius. The prosely-
tising Imperialist —he may be a daily paper
editor, a lawyer, a parson, a pub-keeper, a
money-lender, anything—is personally a
harmless, even lady-like, citizen for the most
part —one who has never spilt human blood in


an °-er in his life. Yet mention Imperial topics
and his conversation suggests a shambles,
lie has carefully avoided the perils of the
battle-field all his life; yet he has a tre-
mendous scorn for those who dislike talk-
ing, shouting and singing fight whenever an
Empire Hay or Coronation Day or Jubilee
Day or birthday in the Royal Family
occurs. T. Atkins is invariably limned by
him as a god-like, all-conquering warrior
whose good old British pluck enables him
to drive the enemy down the wind like a
scared rabbit. It is amazing how the pictur-
esque guff of the “imperialistic” braggart is
taken "seriously—for a time. And it is
tragic as well as amazing. It was owing
to the fact that lamentable citizens of this
stamp were listened to 10 years ago, while
the sober warnings of such authorities as
General Sir William Butlek were disre-
garded, that Britain lost so much in blood,
treasure and reputation in S’Africa. The
War Office chiefs themselves accepted the
forecasts of these stamping, hat-smashing
“patriots,” and agreed to treat the Boers
as unwashed and cowardly degenerates, who
would flee with yells of terror before the
first regiment than “poked them up.” and
sang a verse of Kipling at them. It was
one of the most depressing examples on re-
cord of the triumph of whirling, unin-
structed stump-oratory and bogus patriot-
ism over knowledge and common-sense.
Hughes, Angell and co. notwithstand-
ing, war will never be exterminated by a
process of logic, any more than street fights
will be abolished by the free and frequent
distribution of tracts. But by (1) prepar-
ing unobtrusively for trouble, and (2) by
dealing firmly with the frothy sensational-
ists who, under modern conditions, have
such power to influence the fat-headed mul-
titude to clamor for blood, the horror may
possibly be kept in abeyance. Here, in
Australia, it is particularly desirable that
our boys of the Bruce Smith breed should
be discouraged. Thanks to their past efforts
in the cause of anti-defence, the Common-
wealth is not in a position to repel a hostile
invader on its own behalf. The army and
navy, concerning whose glories the cory-
bantic Imperialist blithers so loudly, are
permanently situated on the other side of
the globe, and their proprietors have clearly
and firmly intimated that they are going to
stay there. Australia’s first and best hope of
enjoying the blessings of Peace is, without
a moment’s unnecessary delay or one super-
fluous howl about “Empire,” to put itself
into a self-defensite position. Now and al-
ways it should forego the perilous luxury of
flaunting in the face of the nations a fleet
which has its own country to look after:
and it should drop chanting the battle-
hymns and worshipping the battle-emblems
of a people 12.000 miles away. Simultane-
ously or thereabouts, it should turn like a
tiger on its Bruce Smiths. The country’s
safety, even more than its self-respect, de-
mands that tnese flag-wagging, KiPLiNG-re-
citing, world-defiant calamities should be, in
some wa" or other, declared bogus, and be
classed with >~>rickly pears, and brought un-
der the Dog Act,
PLAIN ENGLISH.
“The Most Sorrowful Sight in the
Commonwealth.”
The Scotch farmer keeps his nose pretty
close to the plough, and is supposed to be
something extra-hard and stern in the way
of a parent; but the child slaves in the Aus-
tralian cow districts, and the mostly-
wretched housing of the cocky’s family in
other districts, saddened even the recent
commission of Scotch farmers. "The set-
tler,” says the report, “has generally an
unattractive home, comfortless within and
bare without.” So the youngsters find life
dull and uninteresting, and clear off to the
towns as soon as they can —and then cocky
groans that he can’t get labor. The Com-
missioners give him the straight tip:—
If he wants to keep his children with him, and to
have them eventually settle near him, he must pro-
vide for them a home that is attractive, both within
and without. He must not work them like slaves,
by making them milk 10 or a dozen cows every
meaning before going to school, nor grudge them
their hours of amusement when they come back.
They should be so treated that they will grow up lov-
ing both their home and their work in the country.
Similarly, the settler should remember that, in Aus-
tralia, with its goldea oportunities, his children will
one day probably occupy higher positions than he has
been able to attain, and may even be called upon to
fill posts Of great responsibility. He should, there-
fore, never sacrifice their future prospects for his
present gain, but should make a point of giving
them the best education within reach. One of the
most sorrowful sights to be seen in the Common-
wealth to-day is 8- or 10-year-old children of a
dairyman milking cows morning and night, and
spending all their spare hours slaving about the farm.
Replying the other day at great length to
School-inspector Fraser, who had said much
the same thing, one Shepherd, “Mayor of
Berry and President of the Dairy Farmers’
Union,” whined that it wasn’t the farmers’
fault —the youngsters tejnpted them. “When
most boys reached the age of six years they
asked their fathers to be allowed into the
stockyard to try their hand at milking.”
Adam, who shoved the responsibility on to
the woman, was an heroic character com-
pared with the cow-keeping parent who
saddles the child of six with the responsi-
bilit.v for the cow-slavery. There probably
never was an infant of that age who didn’t
want to do a man’s work; and there cer-
tainly never was a parent who allowed the
infant to do it without disgracing himself
and proving himself unworthy of his re-
sponsibilities. “Any law,” said this cow
president, “that interferes between a father
and his children is very unjust.” It is some
satisfaction to have the cow-slavery point
of view put so frankly. The Law, however,
came long ago to the conclusion that a child
is not a chattel; and just as it steps in
when the mother degrades her young daugh-
ter, so it must be —and usually is—prepared
to step in when the father degrades his young
son. Still, nothing is to be gained by talk-
ing in a vague way about these things. Pub-
lic opinion, contemptuous of these people and
their practices as it may be, will not reach
them unless it is expressed in law. How
they can be reached by law is a matter for
specialists in the cow-keeping business to
decide. There must be some humanitarians
in the business, and it is up to them to say
how the scandal can be ended, and ‘ one of
the most sorrowful sights in the Common-
wealth” blotted out. If they have no other
suggestion to make, then the State I arlia-
ments must go the whole hog, and shut out
youngsters of under 14 or 15 from the milk-
ing-yards, just as it has closed the mines and
the factories against them.
An Old Imperishable Lie.
The extremely fat deputation which waited
upon Andrew Fisher in London, to moan
about the land tax imposed in Australia last
year, relied mainly upon the ancient and
fishy fable that Capital would be Frightened
Away. One of the obese but distressed per-
sons, named Faithful Begg, remarked,
with tears running down his mendicant
cheeks, that “the result would be to produce
an increasing disinclination to invest money
in Australia”; and an individual with the
grisly name of W. C. Slaughter, who is
chairman of the Midland Railway Co. in
Westralia, groaned like a stricken ox: “It
will be well-nigh impossible to secure capital
here, even for the most favored of Austra-
lian enterprises.” Now, these wails were
put forward on behalf of swelled squatters
and bloated squatting institutions; and the
question ought to be put to them: “How
much of this alleged blessing of foreign
capital does method of land monopoly
attract to Australia, and to what extent
does it induce or tempt Australian capital to
remain here?” The shrieking sin of squat-
terdom in Australia is that it holds in a
condition of melancholy idleness vast tracts
of land on which capital ought to be at
work, but isn’t. As a typical instance, an
estate in the western part of Victoria may
be cited. It is about 40,000 acres in area;
it employs intermittently 50 to 100 per-
sons ; and it returns to its monopolist
owner about £lB,OOO a year, or less than 10s.
per acre. From January to December, it
never gives Capital the opportunity of in-
vesting a single penny, excent in connection
with the small amount of shipping which is
employed in carrying away the wool, and
the occasional purchase of a shearing-
machine or a tin of sheep dip. Yet that
estate be cut into 100 farms;
the farmers could raise on the average £5OO
a year each, or a total of £50,000; 1000
people would be maintained in the land
instead of the 100. And the
Capitalist? Forthwith he would be asked
to supply, profitably to himself, harvesters,
ploughs and milking-machines ; and he would
have double the amount of cargo to carry
away in wheat, butter and wool (even the
wot' 1 would probably be increased in quan-
tity). With such estates split up, the
field for the investment of capital in Austra-
lia will be made bigger and more promising
than ever it was before. It is true that a
heavy (or heavier) land tax will deter
Capital from grabbing and holding idle huge
tracts of fertile territory in Australia ; but
it was precisely with that object that a land
tax was sought, and will be made more se-
vere if necessary.
■ ♦
A Tariff Regulation Board.
The glass-bevellers’ strike in Melbourne
is another hint to the Commonwealth
Government to consider the necessity
for. appointing a small, permanent, non-
official Board to continuously revise items
of the Australian tariff, on sworn evidence
submitted. The glass-bevellers are about
SO; the emnloyers are two. The Wages
Board has fixed £2 Ss. a week as the mini-
mum ; but the men demand £3, and for a
week of hard, unpleasant and unhealthy
toil they no doubt deserve it. The employ-
ers, however, say that they cannot afford to
pay more than 48s. They hold five-sixths
of the local trade, but the margin of profit
is so small that even a trifling increase in
the price would give the foreigner all lie
needs to wipe them out. The existing tariff
is 30 per cent, ad valorem, with a 5 per
cent, '‘reference to Britain; but as Belaian-
made glass is repacked in Britain, and is
imported here under the 25 per cent, duty,
the latter is practically all the protection
the Australian manufacturer and worker
have. The employers ask for 40 per
cent., with a 5 per cent, preference,
and promise the employees the stipu-
lated £3 a week if it is granted. To
tins request Customs Minister Tudor has
replied by asking for a written promise ; also
he wants them to fill in the schedules re-
cently sent out by the Department, saying
how much capital they had invested, how
much they paid for material, and what pro-
portion wages bore to the whole. If they
proved they could not afford to pay the
wages demanded, he would do his best to
get them an increased duty ; but if they re-
mained obdurate and declined to answer,
there was nothing more to be done. There
is no argument needed in a case like this ;
it simply boils down to an untenable propo-
sition one way or the other. Either the em-
ployers can ailord the higher wage, and are
merely bluffing, or they can’t, and a higher
dqsy is justifiable. On the surface, it looks
as though they should disclose their real
position at once. But to that they say:
“We Mill, provided that you will undertake
to redress our grievance if we make good
our case,” And they have some justifica-
tion for making that proviso. They know
that once a resolution for an increased
duty is put before the House, the whole
Tariff question is laid wide open, and it
may be months, or even years, before a de-
cision is reached affecting them, and that
decision itself may stand for only a short
period- Governments are transient, Customs
Ministers temporary. But if those employ-
ers —and employees, as in this case —could
go to a Tariff Regulation Board, with
cue ivnowieuge that proof of their case would
result in a report being at once made to the
Minister, and a consequent resolution laid
before the House, the whole job being put
through in perhaps a month, they would
probably disclose their position. If they
didn’t, they would get no increase in the
tariff; and that would be the end of it.
The present method of passing the business
on to Parliament is too cumbrous and too
uncertain to meet the necessities of the time.
——♦
The Maligned Monopolies.
Arguments in constant use among the apolo-
gists for Sydney’s gas monopoly, Melbourne’s
tram monopoly, Australia’s sugar monopoly
and similar concerns are that, though the
latter admittedly make big and even bloated
profits, yet these are in the legitimate course
of business; that the public, recognising this,
are contented; and that therefore anyone
who advocates interfering with their opera-
tions is an officious ass, as well as a would-
be strangler of well-conducted private busi-
nesses. The representation that sugar
costs the Australian consumer about
twice as much as it? should, is countered
with the statements that the heads of
the C.S.R. Go. had a trying time build-
ing up their business : that, personally, they
are men of blameless character; that they
pay their employees legal wages; <md that
they ask no more for what they provide than
people are willing and able to give. Cer-
tainly the Sydney householder pays twice as
much for his private-enterprise gas as cer-
tain country residents pay for their muni-
cipal gas. The Sydney article is so poor that
complaints are forever appearing in the daily
press concerning Waverley bath-heaters
which refuse to heat and Coogee gas-stoves
which can in no wise be induced to cook.
The cable-trams of Melbourne are notori-
ously among the most gradual on earth.
They charge as much to carry a passenger
300 yards along Collins-street as Sydney’s
Socialistic trams do to carry the same pas-
senger from (say) Erskine-street to Dover-
road —a matter of three miles or more. The
expensiveness of Australian sugar, the mea-
sured gait and preposterous costliness of the
Melbourne trams, the extravagant price and
extraordinary impurity of Sydney gas are
admitted by some of the warmest friends of
private enterprise. But, they urge cheer-
fully, these abuses are far from being intol-
erable. Sugar might be so dear that re-
tailers would be forced to sell it at a loss
in order to keep customers, instead of, as they
do now, at a figure which yields them no
profit. Sydney ferry-steamers and Melbourne
trams might be much slower and costlier
than they are, and private-enterprise gas
even dimmer and more’ ruinous than it is at
present. If the jade were galled she would
wince, says the Anti-Socialist; and he asks
triumphantly, Does she wince? Do the peo-
ple really object to the institutions which
are said to be fleecing them day in and day
out? Do they call public meetings and orate
protestingly, and publish pamphlets setting
forth their wrongs ? They do not. And, there-
fore, obviously the people have no wrongs.
Their silence shows that they love their gas
and tram and sugar and ferry monopolies,
and those who seek to divert their affections
from these law-abiding concerns are mischief-
makers and revolutionaries. All of which is
as true as the fact that eels delight in being
skinned; that the hare enjoys the chase as
much as the hounds; and that animals love
performing difficult tricks in public. Nothing
is hurt unless it howls. Everyone who is
taken down recognises, the trick on the spot
and immediately makes a song about.it. The
peorile, the general body of toilers who live
on the edge of want, and who are, in conse-
quence, hit hardest by the addition of a few
shillings a week to their gas and sugar and
transport bills, have both the time and the
capacity to figure out what they ought to be
paying for these necessaries, apd to compare
the result with what they are actually pay-
ing. If they found that a
able company was, and had for years been,
making (say) 100 per cent, profits out of
their exiguous earnings, they would at once
clamor deafeningly to have the predatory
business nationalised and run for the benefit
of the State. But they make no clamor
worth mentioning. And so, of course, there
is nothing wrong. The logic of the thing is
flawless.
As a clinching argument in favor of a Vic.
Government subsidy for a Boer war me-
morial, Major Tim Mclnerney put it to
Chief Secretary Watt that “the deeds of
the dead form the traditions which are going
to build up this country, and inspire the
future generations of its people.” The dead
inspirers of Major Mac’s oratory were 234
Victorian irresponsibles who went to South
Airica on a disgraceful Boer-shooting expe-
dition —in the interests of mostly-foreign
mine-owners who wanted cheap Chinese la-
bor to swell their own dividends, and either
got shot themselves or died ingloriously
natural causes. The avowed object of the
war in which Mclnerney’s comrades ceased
to be serviceable Australians was to wrest
S’Africa from its Boer land-owners, and the
result of an enormously costly “conquest”
was that the same old Boers own the earth
more securely than they ever owned it be-
fore —a fact, however, which doesn’t trouble
the engineers of the war one atom, because
the Chow-labor experiment, having been
tried, proved a ghastly failure. There never
was a war in regard to which the nation was
more shamefully deluded. There never was
one which brought less glory to Britain, and
there never was one which the “loyalist”
ought to forget as quicklv as possible. Every
memorial of the war is the memorial of a
great fraud worked on the nation, a re-
minder of the most colossal gold-brick of
this generation, and a thorn in the wound of
grossly-wronged men whom we now call
“brothers of the Empire,” and whom we ask
to stand shoulder to slmulder with us in
our troubles. Australia has plenty better
uses for its money; but if it must have a
few more memorials, it might do the graceful
thing, and in sackcloth and ashes build one
to the people we were deceived into butcher-
ing in the interests of Cohenstein and Is-
RAELBERG.
The Melbourne Tram Co.’s chief engineer
has given the local Traffic Commission the
result of some comparisons he has made be-
tween the Melbourne (private) and Sydney
(State) systems:—
Earnings. Expenses.
f k
Per Car Per Car
Total. Mile. Total. Mile.
Sydney.. .. .£1,018,836 13'78d. £831,299 11'24d.
Melbourne .. 581,390 13'95d. 319,013 7'65d.
“There you are,” says the Melbourne co. in
effect. “You see we make our money by
stricter _ economy and better business
methods.” As a matter of fact, they make
their unduly and unfairly large profits by
neglecting to provide tramway facilities
where they should be provided. The Gov-
ernment doesn’t want to make 20 or 30 per
cent, profits; consequently, when it can
show something more than interest and re-
newal fund on existing lines, it gives
some more remote or thinly-populated dis-
trict a line, or cheapens the fare on existing
lines ; and, of course, up jump the expenses
in proportion to the earnings. In similar
circumstances, instead of conveniencing more
people, the Melbourne co. merely increases
its dividend. In 1901 the Government elec-
tric trams in Sydney ran 3,993,000 tram
miles; by 1910 the conveniences had been
so extended that they ran 19,394,000 miles.
Thus, the total had increased five fold ; and
the number of passengers had increased
from 49,069,000 to 187,574,000 —a nearly
four-fold growth. But in Melbourne the
private co. has only increased its tram mile-
age from 8,964.000 in 1901 to 10,010,000 in
1910, while the passengers carried have
moved on from 47,195,000 to 68,695,000.
Thus, 10 years ago the Melbourne co.’s
trams carried only two millions less pas-
sengers than the Sydney State trams; now
The Interloper.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. Fisher cannot do enough to show the Home
Government how devoted he is as a meddling Im-
perialist since the British War Office took him into
its confidence. —Melbourne Age.
The Honorable Torypiiat addressed the
meeting: ’Hem!
(Prolonged applause.) Ah—Mistah Chair-
man, gentlemen. To stem
The tide of Socialism —rabid Socialism, sir—
Which threatens to engulf us, hez —ah —al-
ways been —urn —er —
Hez always been ouah object in the past,
and, Ai may say,
We hev succeeded, somewhat, in—er—stand-
ing in the way.
We hev been firm, sir, in the past, and fought
wi thou t —ah —f eah
Foah the Empiali and the —ah —the uppah
classes, sir. (Heah, heah.)
In ouah endeavahs to —um —ah —promote the
public good
It hez always been —that is to say—been—
ah —been understood,
Bai the people-—bai the —um —ha —people,
sir, of this —-er —land
That we and the Empiali, so to speak, are
hand in hand.
The British —er —authorities, at all times,
hev been glad
To listen —ah —to any—er —suggestions tliet
we had.
We hev been the Empiah’s mouthpiece, in—
ah—this benighted land,
And hitherto the Empiali was the —aw—best
card in ouah hand.
The word “Imperial” is, Ai maintain, sir,
ouahs bai raight ;
It hez been ouah battle-cry in the —ah —fore-
front of the faight.
And, hitherto, the pahs at Home weah quick
to recognise
Ouah undoubted raight to use it in refuting
Labali lies.
At Empiah celebrations we hev been the
leading ones
In saluting the—aw —flag, sir, and distribut-
ing—ah—buns.
And all raight-thinking persons who—ah —
who support Ouah cause
Will agree that we alone —er —stand for
“Empiah." . . (Loud applause.)
But now what do we faind, sir? Mistah
Chairman, Ai’m dismayed!
It would seem that ouah —ah —trust in the
—ah—pahs has been betrayed.
For they hev —aw —confided, with regard
to woah and loans,
In this common Labah person named—ah—
named —ah —Fishah. (Groans.)
They’ve actu’ly consulted him, and —aw—
and made a fuss;
They’ve told him —er — State secrets, sir,
which they withhold from us!
Things that concern ouah Empiah, sir! Ai
(splutter) —Ai protest !
They hev no raight to trust this Pearce
and Fisiiaii and the rest!
Who is lie? Ai repeat, sir—ah —who is
this fellow? (Jeers.)
He’s gone to see the crowning of ouah gra-
cious Sovereign. (Cheers.)
But why, sir? Mistah Chairman, Ai repeat
the question—Why?
He’s gone in the capacity of —er —a Lahah
spy!
Pie’s gone to worm out secrets, sir—State
secrets, which he seeks
To use against ouah party, sir, when he re-
turns. (Loud shrieks.)
He hopes to use his knowledge to upset our
cherished schemes,
And oust us from ouah office as the Empiah’s
champions ! (Screams.)
And, Ai repeat, who is he, sir—this meddling
Fishah? (Hoots.)
A minah, sir! (Intense disgust.) Not fit
to black ouah boots!
A common minah ! And foah him the pahs
have passed us by !
But Ai defy the pahs, sir! Ai repeat it,
Ai defy
The pahs at Home ! (Commotion.) Sir !
Ai’ll not stand such disgrace!
This man will not usurp ouah raights, and
drag us from ouah place !
Ai’ll lead a revolution, sir! Blood, sir!
Ai’ll rend to hits,
The silken bonds of Empiah, sir! (Sen-
sation.) DEM IT!!! (Fits.)
victoria.
DEN.
The Admiral’s Message.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Eos don, Monday.—A private meeting of Admirals,
presided over by Admiral Bekesford, was held to-
day in London to discuss the Declaration of London.
In a message to the Admirals concerning the meet-
ing, Admiral Bekesford said: “The danger staring
Great Britain in the face is not invasion, but starva-
tion.” — Cable.
The Thames will never hear the guns;
Grey London in its shroud
Will watch the tide that outward runs,
With fears of Empire bowed ;
The ghastly hours will slowly pass
In a procession dread,
And wondrous London be, alas!
A city stricken dead.
Not to the siege-gun’s thunder tones
Will stately England fall;
No far-flung shell will blast the stones
From cot or castle wall;
But gaunt King Famine’s shade will ride
The mortal King before,
When by the ocean highways wide
The wheat ships come no more.
The voices of the fighting few
They are not heard at all,
When gathers the vast talking crew
Within Westminster’s Hall.
But lo! the first red flash and boom
Between the Channel coasts
Will make of Parliament a tomb,
And of its puppets ghosts!
Grey London in a Babel dream
Lives through these latter days ;
It cannot see the sword blade gleam
As with its gold it plays.
“My page of glory shall not turn!”
It cries amid its ghosts.
And, lo! the eyes of Famine burn
Above its careless hosts!
N.S.W.
E. FRANCIS.


An Adelaide cabman has been charged
with bigamy. Merely another case of an
illegal fair.
A CHILD’S LIFE SAVED.
“My son Jack was severely attacked with croup,”
writes Mrs. Agnes L. Vincent, Margaret Street, Gee-
long, Vic. “He was almost choking, and we had
not time to send for medical aid. We had Chamber-
lain’s Cough Remedy in the house, and it was the
means of saving this child’s life. It only took ten
minutes for this remedy to do the work. We think
a lot of Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy. It is the
only cough medicine we use in our home.”*
DEARD’S British - Built Bioscope,
second to none. Sole Agents—Jerdan’s
Ltd., 393 George Street, Sydney. Let us send
you particulars.*
Brought to Bay
Are those enemies of civilisation, Indigestion and
Dyspepsia, when Dr. Sheldon’s Digestive Tabules
are employed; 2s. 6d. per tin of 80 Tabules.*
HARRINGTONS LTD.,
The Cinematograph
Supply House.
The largest assortment of CINEMATOGRAPHS AND
FILMS always in stock by the World’s best makers
If you want to procure a better supply of Films than
you are obtaining- at present, get into communication
with us and state your requirements. Our Film
Library is the largest in the Commonwealth
W e are the people to give you satisfaction.
SYDNEY—MELBOURNE— BRISBANE—ADELAIDE
It is to be hoped the gorgeousness of the
Coronation splendor represents a power im-
bued with an ardent love of peace and pro-
gress—as all power imbued with D.C.L.
wisdom must be. For, after all, the crown-
ing glory of man is his wisdom, especially
when inspired to its highest and best by
D.C.L., the Whisky of the Wise.*
OIL ENGINES FOR ALL
PURPOSES.
STRONG, RELIABLE, ECONOMICAL.
GUARANTEED for FIVE YEARS.
Invincible Motor Construction Co., ltd.,
Works: WOOLWICH, SYDNEY.
Showrooms: 35 PITT STREET, SYDNEY;
519 LITTLE COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE ;
BANK STREET, ADELAIDE.
Franz Josef
Lager Beer
SparKling,
Refreshing',
Exhilarating'
and Pure.
Franz Josef possesses the true Lager quality
and character, being sharp, clean, and of
light gravity.
they carry 119 millions less ! Private En-
terprise, having got hold of this public util-
ity in Melbourne, has fattened a few share-
holders ; the State, having held on to the
same public utility in Sydney, has coiiven-
ienced the people.
♦
An interesting little game is in progress in
Sydney. The Liberal party under Wade,
V.C., is hopeless. There hasn’t for years
been a leader so poorly qualified for leader-
ship. The party was unhappy enough when
it had command of the loaves and fishes;
now that it cannot appeal to the cupboard
love of its members, there is nothing at all
to keep it soldered together. The Storey
independents have broken loose; and among
those others who haven’t done so openly
there is a feeling of utter hopelessness. Any
change would therefore be welcome. But
the most welcome change would, of course,
be one that would take them a few paces
nearer the old cupboard where the loaves
and fishes are. The Labor party happens
to be in charge there ; so what better plan
than to suggest that the Labor party is
hankering to take the Opposition to its
bosom? “A coalition is the thing!” says the
Telegraph, or, rather, one of the mysteri-
ous puppets into whose mouth the Tele-
graph nuts its own wishes. That is to say,
having missed the ’bus, the Telegraph
wants the ’bus to stop and make room on
the step for a few of its own followers,
whom it will presently incite to climb on to
the box, with the object of throwing off the
present drivers when they are not looking.
It is a beautiful scheme; but —why should
the ’bus stop?
One day last week the Sheffield Choir sang
“Advance Australia Fair” in Martin Place,
Sydney. Between 15,000 and 20,000 people
were present, and traffic was entirely
blocked; but neither the City Council nor
the police interfered, and the papers glow-
ingly referred to it as “an inspiring sight.”
About two months previously W. M. Hughes,
Acting Prime Minister, made a short speech
in the same street on the necessity of ad-
vancing Australia fair. The traffic was hardly
inconvenienced at all, but the same papers
spoke most severely to Plughes, and he was
invited before a police magistrate, who
promptly fined linn 30s. and costs. So that
in urging Australia to advance, it all de-
pends whether you mean it or not.
The tax-dodging Victorian shires, which are
eternally crawling to the Government, got
one in the eye the other day. The usual
wail had just come from Benalla that the
local landowners couldn’t keep the local
roads in order, when the chairman of the
Pub-Licenses Reduction Board dropped in a
few remarks apropos of something else alto-
gether. The Board had been told, in evi-
dence, that the Mount Pleasant Hotel at
Benalla had been valued for municipal rat-
ing purposes at £l5 per annum, whereas the
actual rent paid was £39. This moved the
chairman to say that it was “a scandalous
outrage for shires to go crawling to the Gov-
ernment for grants of money. We see so many
shocking instances of hotels being under-
valued in country districts that we think the
Government should either withdraw all
grants, or provide some other drastic rem-
edy.” No doubt it should; but, unfortu-
nately, under existing circumstances, it isn’t
likely to. In the first place, the country
districts have far more representation than
they are entitled to on numbers; and. in the
second place, a great many of the country
members are cadgers nure and simple, be-
cause their constituents value them in pro-
portion to the amount they can squeeze out
of the Treasury. Successive “Liberal” Gov-
ernments therefore truckle to these members.
The life of Governments depends on the sup-
port of these culvert statesmen; and, since
the culvert statesmen’s political life depends
on the quantity of bribes they can collect
from the Governments, the bribes are handed
out under all manner of specious disguises.
Until the State Treasuries positively refuse
to be bled. State politics will be demoralised
in this way, and the country landowners
will continue to loaf on all the other tax-
payers.
♦
“Teddy Bundle” : Recently visited Nowra,
on the N.S.W. South Coast, after a 10 years’
absence, and thence went on to that portion
of the district known as Crookhaven, where
I had spent my boyhood. Made inquiries
for people whom I had known, and found
that they had been forced out by high rents
plus bad seasons. Where I had left scores
of families living comfortably on small hold-
ings, I saw only half-dismantled home-
steads. At Pyree, where once had been
a large creamery, there remained only the
gaunt buildings minus the machinery.
Nowra, once a thriving township with a pop-
ulation of 3000 or 4000, is practically de-
serted ; land has been bought over the heads
of tenants, who by their toil had made the
district a smiling paradise ; five men now
holding country that formerly carried 7Q or
80 families; commercial institutions practi-
cally owning and controlling the district;
auctioneers getting their cut, agents ditto;
purchasers worn with anxiety to meet pay-
ments ; failure to pay meaning foreclosure
and another auction : and so the game has
gone on. Extended my trip to Yalwal;
same thing there. And I return to Sydney a
saddened man, just in time to read in the
Daily Telegraph that the prospects of the
Burnnjuck (N.S.W.) irrigation scheme de-
pend upon the importation of farmers from
Western America, Spain, Northern Italy and
Victoria. It is a humorous country, this
Australia.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Hamlet.”
Roy ai. “ The Balkan Princess.”
Criterion “The Gay Grisette.”
Adelphi “ Driving a Girl to Destruction.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Palace West’s Pictures.
Princess West’s Pictures.
Lyceum Spencer’s Pictures.
National Amphitheatre Brennan’s Vaudeville Co.
Lyric Continuous Pictures.
Colonial (Nos. 1 & 2).. Continuous Pictures.
Glaciariuji Ice Skating.
St. James’ Hall Nelson Illingworth (July 1).
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK
Princess’s “Nobody’s Daughter.”
Her Majesty’s “Our Miss Gibbs.”
Royai “A Fool There Was.”
Kino’s “ The Favorite.”
Opera House., Rickards’Vaudeville Co.
Olympia Spencer’s Pictures.
Glaciarium Ice Skating.
Lyric, Prahran Photo Plays.
West’s Palace West's Pictures.
Repertory Theatre... “TheTwoMr.Wetherbys.”
*
For the past few days 11. B. Irving has
been more in the public eye than any poli
tician. The story of his superlative merits has
temporarily ousted from their accustomed
places in the press even such immortal ques-
tions as the Infamy of the Telephone and the
Menace of Labor. An aureole of worship
surmounts the star’s highly-interesting head.
In appraising his performance of Hamlet,
one is thus embarrassed by a haunting feeling
that anything short of adulation approaches
irreverence. That the Hamlet which was
presented at Her Majesty’s (Sydney) for
the first time on Saturday night is a triumph
by comparison with any that the present
generation of Australians has seen may be
admitted at once. But does it provide clear
evidence of that original genius which is
claimed for its interpreter? This paper has
an idea that it doesn’t. H. B. Irving may
be a creative artist, but Australia has yet
to be given proof of it.
“ HAMLET," AT HER MAJESTY'S,
SYDNEY.
H. B. Irving (Hamlet) and Tom Reynolds
(Gravedigger).
H. B. HAMLET (criminologist): —
“ See , here the bump appears
Of innocent Hilarity;
And just behind his ears
Are Faith and Hope and Charity."
Q.E.D. — Yorick not a criminal.
The son’s Hamlet is, in all its essentials,
the father’s Hamlet. Irving the younger
does not resemble Irving the elder in the
fortuitous fashion in which any son may
resemble any father: he is as much the lat-
ter’s conscious and deliberate replica as
(say) Austen Chamberlain is the replica of
his father. Appearance, voice, gait, tricks
of gesture—they are all after the classic
model. The writer saw Irving, sen., play
Hamlet when age had accentuated his con-
genital staginess, and robbed his voice of its
freshness. H. B. Irving provides much the
same sort of Hamlet that Henry Irving-
must have provided a quarter of a century
ago. There are the same queer nasal in-
tonations in the upper register; the famous
“Ha ! ha!” (the hollow laugh which has been
burlesqued by humorists wherever the lan-
guage of melodrama is spoken) ; the same
startling lapses into staginess; and, with
them, there is the same consummate art, ef-
fortless, yet always effective. Still, it is
not all Henry Irving. The son brings to the
greatest of acting rdles an asset which the
father never possessed—clearness of diction.
And he has the charm of youth. Yet, with it
all, he does not move his audiences greatly
on the emotional side. The applause at each
superbly-contrived “curtain” is deafening
and evidently sincere; but one .searches in
vain for dim eyes. Is it our fault or the
actor’s that the admiration he arouses is al-
most entirely intellectual?
** * *
“The Balkan Princess” is still on starva-
tion diet in the Bohemian Restaurant at
Sydney Theatre Royal. Bert Gilbert’s blis-
tering portrait of a typical waiter is a joy
no cafe-frequenter should forego; for, as the
sage hath it, “There is something peculiarly
gratifying about the spectacle of one’s dear-
est foe being held up to scorn and hatred.”
And then there are Miss Lottie Sargent,
Miss Olive Godwin, Langford Kirby, and
other delightful people.
*****
For two nights more the haggis will walk
at Sydney Criterion, and the brose circu-
late to the accompaniment of loud shouts
in the Scotch language. Then "The Gay
Grisette,” -which is said to be all that its
festive name implies, will start charming
musical comedy lovers from their firesides.
** * *
Sydney Adelphi is “Driving a Girl to De-
struction” regularly every night, to good
business, and the advt. makes no mention of
the time when the Driven will cease to career
along the drink-bordered path, waving a
typewriter in one hand and a bottle in the
other. The lurid title of the newest Marlow
drama stands out on hoarding and page like
an electric sky-sign on a pitch-black night.
Hermits have come blinking out of their
lonely caves and demanded to know what is
the strength of it, while worldly folk are
struggling into wraps and overcoats and
hurrying along to see for themselves.
** * *
A concert, to be given by Nelson Illing-
worth, in St. James’s Hall, Sydney, on July
1> is going to be interesting, because almost
every number will be heard then for the
first time in Australia.
** * *
At the National Amphitheatre the star
turn is supplied by a herd of monkeys under
the benevolent despotism of Anita Diaz. The
animals perform a number of surprising acro-
batic and other tricks. But for the fact that
there is not one ingratiating simper amongst
the lot of them, they might pass for excep-
tionally talented human artists. Next Sat-
urday Toby Claude, the tiny American dam-
sel with the unimpeachable legs—the same
who made a hit at Her Majesty’s last year
—arrives for a brief season.
** * *
The busiest-looking man the Religious Edi-
tor has seen this week is Francis, the Sydney
Tivoli performer, who rolls round the stage
on a cannon ball while he balances another
globular projectile on the roof of his skull
and juggles with four tennis balls. His
partner, Alfred, is a capable stage-humorist,
and the comedy side of the turn is equal to
the juggling, which is an impartial mixture
of cannon balls, newlaid eggs and china
plates. The only thing needed to make the
audience sit up is the addition of a stick of
dynamite to the props. The breath-catching
turn of the Zanfrellas (equilibrists) is one
of the plums of the bill, and the general
opinion seems to be that the lady’s smile
when she has accomplished a trick is alone
worth the money. Arthur Croxon (mono-
logue entertaine.r), Wire Monarch Delino, the
two dancing Lillies, Comedian Kalman and
Fanny Powers are the other first-rankers.
For Saturday, July 1, the bill promises
Spissel Brothers and Mack, who are de-
scribed as “American eccentrics,” and Air.
Holt, a whistling mimic, also from the Land
of the Wooden Ham:
** * *
Yir^ t ,®?? ney Palace and Princess Theatres,
West s Pictures will continue to show “Our
Navy” till to-morrow night (Friday) ; then
the leviathans along the brine will give way
to the khaki hosts. “Our Army” is the title.
Io get the fine Navy film the operators were
apparently sent for a cruise on board one of
the Dreadnoughts. So the audience saw the
decks cleared for , action, and the grim,
gaunt, naked ship glide to her place in the
battle line. Guns were run out to the firing
positions, and great clouds of smoke rolled
away from the muzzles. Then the torpedo
nets were dropped and the crew rushed to the
secondary armament to repel the attack of
the swift and deadly mosquito fleet. Jack’s
life afloat was not by any means the least
interesting feature of the great display, and
the representation of a bluejacket landing-
party was full of interest. On the word of
the management the representation of the
Army is just as good. By the way, West’s
aim ot the Coronation will be shown for the
first time in Australia at Perth on July 18,
and in Adelaide, Melbourne and other eastern
capitals just as fast as trains and steamers
can bring them. rs me to think of it, the
most important reason for the Coronation at
all is the fact that it makes a rattling good
subject for cinematography.
** * *
O tlle J - D- Williams Colonial Nos. 1 and
u-n^ eatr , e , s ,.i-® y^ drama of wild
Western” life is on top for the coming week ;
but it is carefully sandwiched with Pathe
dramas and scenic masterpieces. At No 1
the programme opens with “The Girl and the
Oath, an “exclusive” drama of “Western”
life. The Pathe contributions include “The
Masterpiece,” a fine comedy, and “Minor
Trades in the Malay States.” The Indian
drama is entitled “The Half-Breed’s Plan,”
sensational enough to satisfy the most blase.
Tfa e saPPUes “The Wedding Bell,”
and Bill s joy over the loss of his mother-in-
law brings the show to a close. At No. 2
the programme opens with a new and “ex-
clusive” Indian drama. The Kineto Co.’s
I armyard Acquaintances” is a fine exposi-
tion of animal life in its natural state. A
drama entitled “Monsieur,” and a comedy
which is in name and nature “A Mix Up ”
prepare the way for the trials of Bud Brown
Bud is the typical “Western” girl; who seems
to have a legion of followers in Sydney just
now ; After the strain of the woes of Bud,
the “Animated Arm Chair,” by Pathe, starts
the audience for the door, smiling all over.
** * *
“A Fool There Was,” by Porter Emerson
Browne, staged at Melbourne Royal on
Saturday, is a superior sort of shilling-
shocker in six courses. The heroine, “name-
less here for evermore,” a man-eater of the
most voracious sort, consumes an adult male
as comfortably as any imperfect lady might
dispose of a grape, and has a lurid past
dotted with the. bones of Jones, and Smith,
and other victims. Poor Hugh Buckler,
the hero, a man who should have known
better, drifts on to her plate when journey-
ing by ship to England to be a potentate,
and succumbs on the spot. Wife, child,
honor. Uncle Sam, and all prudential
considerations are cast to the several winds,
and Hugh, as the Fool, goes sweeping
through Europe with his Lady Fair, suf-
fusing Paris, London, Venice, Vienna and
other places with a rosy glow, and having
such a high old time that echoes of the
racket reach America, where the beautiful
wife is repining, the little “cheeild” is com-
posing precociously infantile letters to dad
dy, and Uncle Sam is preparing to cast
Hugh from his high official position, and rub
ignominy in tiis hair. The finish is ap-
proaching when the Fool is exhibited in his
dismantled apartment, where even the pic-
tures are drunk, hurling his boots at the
mirror, biting bits out of brandy bottles, and
seeing hobgoblins on the whatnots —ha, ha,
ha, ha!
ANDREW MIACCUNN, Musical Director for
“ Our Miss Gibbs," at Her Majesty's,
Melbourne.
But Browne Porter is not courageous
enough, or stout enough, for his big theme.
Being only a shandygaff dramatist, in the
end he poisons the Lady Fair with a dose of
something sudden, and brings his curtain
down on a tableau exhibiting the haggard
Fool restored to the bosom of his pale wife
and little “cheeild.” The Lady Fair is a
genus. She typifies the red devil in her
sex. To cut her off in the scarlet flower of
her youth is to ruthlessly murder the Idea
in order to pander to our infantile faith in a
retributive Nemesis. However, “A Fool
There Was” fills two hours, and keeps us
agreeably concerned about the fortunes of
the Fool and his nice white wife. It is the
popular theme of the “Worst Woman Any-
where,” stripped of the clatter of clowns and
the rush of scenery, artfully condensed, and
put with sufficient taste and talent to make
it acceptable to a man who wants his theat-
rical fare at least flavored with brains.
Hugh Buckler is striking as the Fool.
Tne good husband and father is outlined
briskly and cleanly; the victim on the road
to ruin, and the despairing sot who fights
fantods with the furniture, are toned with
gumption. The work wins sympathy. Miss
Mabel Trevor, as the vampire female, is not
quite It. Features of her work call for
honorable mention : she hits a tingling chord
now and then, and dies crisply; but surely
the conception is too hard? It wants a
feline softness and deceit; and an appeal is
hereby made to Miss Trevor to reconsider
her laugh. Much may be done with a
laugh. Miss Molett Paget, as the perfect
wife, looks the part, and acts it gracefully;
but Miss Elinor Foster, in the guise of a
casual sister, retains something of the swing
of the naughty puss in “'The Woman in the
Case,” Gerald Souper is the good friend of
the family. The part has happy moments,
especially when Gerald swipes the Fool for
his own good. “A Fool There Was” will
certainly have a prosperous reign at the
Royal, if a short one.
«* * *
In considering “Our Miss Gibbs” for the
49th time, one arrives at a sort of craving
to have everybody in somebody else’s part—
to see Bertie Wright play the delectable
sales-lady, for instance, and Miss Blanche
Browne figure as the comic object from
Yorkshire, while sweet Higginson twitters as
the excessive Duchess, and the well-grown


A GENUINE HAIRGROWER.
We have received the following recipe from
a correspondent who has found it to be of
great value. Our correspondent says that
this mixture is a hair tonic which, if rubbed
briskly into the scalp night and morning
with the finger tips, will not fail to promote
the growth of hair, to remedy baldness, to
restore grey hair to its natural color, and to
destroy dandruff.
Take i dram of Menthol Crystals and put
them into a bottle containing 3oz. of Bay
Rum and see that they are entirely dissolved,
then add loz. of Lavona de Composee, and if
desired one teaspoonful of To-Ivalon per-
fume. Shake well and let it stand for half
an hour, when it will be ready for use.
Other readers will doubtless be glad to try
this remedy which our correspondent has
sent. We understand that the ingredients
may he obtained from any chemist.
CAUTION. —As this is doubtless a re-
markable hair grower, it should be applied
only where hair is desired .*
Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
FIRE
Lowest Rates Charged.
’Phone No. 230 C-nsral.
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED,
PITT AND KING STREETS, SYDNEY.
ACCIDENT. EMPLOYERS’ LIABILITY, PLATE GLASS Etc
Settlements Prompt and Equitable. g. HOWARD POPE, Manager
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman.
lady now impersonating that terrific female
invades the garments of the boy in buttons.
Anything for a change—the change for
which the exhausted notice-writer vainly
scans Her Majesty’s horizon.
* *■ * *
At Melbourne’s Spring-street theatre “No-
body’s Daughter” has gone its gentle way
with a fair amount of satisfaction to the
management, and for two nights more the
frigid virgin will insist that the hour has
come for the hand of Heaven to overtake
Mrs. Frampton, and on two more occasions
the male Frampton will awaken suddenly to
the disconcerting fact that for 18 years he
has been married to a Woman who Did.
On Saturday night, the Plimmer-Denniston
co. introduces yet another American play,
Clyde Fitch's “Lovers’ Lane,” a sort of pas-
toral comedy which has the earnest approval
of Bishop Potter of New York, but against
which nothing further is known.
** * *
Melbourne has not seen the last of John
P. Sousa, who concluded a busy season at
the Glaciarium last week. At the command
of General Request, backed by the urgings
of Private Gain, he and his hand will appear
at the Exhibition for five nights, commenc-
ing Saturday next. The programmes will
be “devoted to special composers,” and the
prices will be 35., 2s. and Is. Then, accord-
ing to revised arrangements, the same com-
manding officer will lead the band back for
another week in Sydney.
s{£
To-morrow night “The Woman of Pleas-
ure” ceases to use large areas of land and
sea as backgrounds for frocks and warm
emotions. On Saturday the event at the
King’s will be a revival of “The Favorite,”
the horsey drama by Frank Adair.
** m *
This being the dampest depth of winter,
Melbourne is expected to fly to musical en-
thusiasm to get warm. Already, on Tuesday
of the present week, the Vic. Professional
Orchestra has burst into renewed activity
and paid its seasonable devoirs to the com-
poser whose name is a Russian sneeze. To-
day (Thursday) the second of Leonard Bor-
wick’s pianoforte recitals is due at the Town
Hall (matinee) ; but the next appearance of
the accomplished artist will not happen until
Wednesday, July 5, if he hasn’t been com-
pelled to play in the meantime.
* *■ * *
Among the recent productions at Mel-
bourne Olympia, “Jim the Mule Boy” was
the most dreadfully tearful. The picture
was a mining “thrill,” of which the princi-
pal features were two entombed youths, a
horse, and a sandwich—and you can, with
those materials, make the haricot for your-
self. Good _ humor was shown in “Queen
for a Day,” depicting some adventures in
heavy-weight love. “The Survival of the
Fittest” was- tolerable drama, but “The
Broken Cross” was the pick of the series.
It told the usual tale of a man and two
maids, one of whom was too crudely
wicked to be a lady—for a girl who cannot
sin cleverly is, of course, only a hussy.
** * *
In 'the Rickards procession of dog per-
formers the latest, now appearing at Mel-
bourne Opera House, are the best. The
seeming “cleverness” of Drunken Dan and
co. was largely due to stage-management—
dimly suspected or discernible through
glasses. The Football Dogs were mere lar-
rikins on the loose. But Reichen’s Dogs
have been trained to wonderful feats of gym-
nastic balancing. Their capacity for turn-
ing rigid somersaults and coming down on
one forefoot with the tail extended upwards
indicates an instinct for acrobatics as well
as an awful course of education. And the
little comedy-dog does things on its appar-
ent own which are droll in themselves’. The
dog turn has nothing in common with any
other part of the programme, save the up-
ended feats of the shapely Black and White
girls. Alf Holt, the whistling mimic, is
there, and Peggy Pryde, and Miss Charm-
eroy, who sings English songs in a French
tremolo voice, and whose animation is as
ornate as her frock. Lamberti, the imper-
sonator of famous musicians (dead and
otherwise), commands respect mingled with
admiration. Perhaps Lamberti is rather
over the heads of the boys, who prefer .
Bluett. He is a good pianist, and his imi-
tation of old Abbe Lizst wagging palsied
head and hands over the box of music is
quite artistic. In other make-ups he plays
the ’cello effectively, and the violin not so
well. His Paderewski at the piano is a
broad caricature of the original, and his ;
Gounod conducting the Rickards orchestra E
will remind many people of Biondi.
* * * -*
Adelaide gave further proof of its up-to-
dateness in dramatic affairs when for two
evenings last week it was crowding two dif-
ferent houses to hear Bernard Shaw. The
Literary Theatre tackled “Widowers’
Houses,” G.B.S. has himself labelled
“unpleasant.” Not that there is an offensive
line in it; its “unpleasantness” is due to
the fact that there isn’t one “sympathetic”
character in it either. Even those who do
make an objection to the poverty-stricken
being squeezed > for high rent give in as soon
as their own incomes would be affected by the
business being run on decent lines. Wilfrid
Neill, Douglas Walsh, and Royston Marcus
all played well, and Thomas Nave played
better. “Arms and the Man,” at the Royal,
is of course only Shaw-for-the-young-begin-
ner. Its delightful humors were again in-
terpreted by Desmond, Leslie Victor, and
Miss Vaughan. Katherine Grey this time
chose, instead of the rather colorless Raina,
the sullen, handsome, alluring serving-maid.
Miss Grey, farewelled, interviewed and lion-
ised, has now said good-bye to Australia —
and seemed sorry to do it.
** * *
At Adelaide Tivoli, Sydney Bach, Eunice
and Zena, Irving Sayles, and others are
overshadowed bv R. A. Roberts, who is a
whole team in himself. Coronation fire-
works —free —-brought into the Oval what
is supposed to be the biggest crowd it ever
held; Sousa and his band are making the
same thing true of the Exhibition; and the
deciduous “Charley’s Aunt” has sprouted
once- more at the Royal. The new King’s
is having concerts, after enjoying a sensa-
tion. Just as a show was about to begin,
the fireproof curtain crashed down, and
stayed down. The 2 y 2 tons of dead weight
balancing it had broken away, and fallen
through the stage into a dressing-room,
where it missed an actor by inches, divided
his boot neatly (the boot was not on his
foot), and buried half of itself in the floor.
AT POVERTY POINT.
H. B. Irving will be 41 on August 5. Seymour
Hicks is a few months younger. Fred Terry, the
original Charles in “Sweet. Nell,” is 46; Bourchier,
whose brilliance was apparent in the cinematographed
“Henry VIII,,’b is 47; Lewis Waller, 51 ; George
Alexner, 53 (they have just made a knight of him) ;
Herbert B. Tree, 57; and Forbes Robertson, 58.
GREGAN
McMAHON
actor,
whos new
Repertory
Theatre
started off
this week
in Mel-
bourne.
From London: Laurence Irving, brother of 11. 8.,
is about to produce his version of “Margaret Catch-
pole” at the Duke of York’s Theatre. The bill is
headed by “Sir Marcus Cracknell, Governor of N. S.
Wales”; that part is to be played by James Shea.
Irving impersonates John Duff, captain of the smug-
glers’ gang, and his wffe (Mabel . Hackney) is
to have a lively time as the horse-stealing, gaol-break-
ing, transported Peggy. The last three scenes of this
“new, exciting, vivacious, and spectacular drama in
four acts” are laid in Australia —(1) Sydney Harbor
at sunset, (2) Margaret Catchpole’s hut in the Blue
Mountains, (3) a room in Government House, Sydney.
Irving says he spent some time in the Catchpole
country (around Ipswich, Eng.), to get the local color,
and he conversed with an oid lady of 90 who says
she remembered the female Dick Turpin. “Peggy
was not a bad girl, but venturous,” was the verdict
of the venerable dame. Some Bulletin correspond-
ents a few years ago expressed doubts whether there
ever was a real Margaret Catchpole. They regarded
the Rev. John Cobbold’s picturesque account as mere
romance, and Peg as a fictitious heroine. No doubt
Cobbold did Weave into the story some “fictitious
adornments”; but the main incidents are provable
facts. She was born in a Sheffield village in 1773 ;
she did fall in love with a young smuggler; to meet
him she did steal a horse and ride from Ipswich to
London; she was tried and convicted; she did make
a daring escape from Ipswich gaol; she was recap-
tured and transported for life to Australia; she
did land in Sydney on Dec. 20, 1801 ; she did marry
a settler in the Hawkesbury district; when she be-
came a widow she did take up her residence in Syd-
ney with her son and two daughters, and she did die
in Sydney on September 10, 1841, leaving behind
her the reputation of a quiet, charitable, religious
lady. In giving the Rev. Cobbold permission to
write her life, she stipulated that her husband’s
name should be concealed “for mine and my chil-
dren’s sakes.”
On June 16 John Riley was “at home” at the Old
Colonists’ Home, Melbourne. John is an old come-
dian and tight-rope walker, and the occasion was
his 92nd birthday. A round hundred well-wishers
assembled, and some vigorous dancing was indulged
in. Riley danced alternately with Mrs. Mary Brom-
ley, who is a few months his senior, and Mrs. Caro-
line Gladstone, who cheerfully confesses to 81.;
Riley claims to have been a member of the first
circus troupe to visit Australia. He performed with
Radford’s in .Tasmania in 1849. arid in the early ’so’s
appeared in different rule's nt.tbd old Queen’s Theatre,
Melbourne. • « . u ... 4.
-i> eV j• an y> w h° have seen “Admirable Crichton”
will dispute H. B. Irving’s opinion that it is “the
best play Barrie has written.” It is so much stronger
in human interest, dramatic effect and moral pur-
pose ; so much more sanely suggestive and subtle in
satire than Barrie’s other plays that their leaning to
puerility seems unaccountable. Crichton, the butler
in a “noble” household, is a remarkable creature of
extraordinary circumstances, and the light of truth
shines about him all the time. Irving created the
character in London, and would like to revive the
play in Australia. Time has improved its chances.
It could certainly be more understood than when
Cuyler Hastings played the name part.
“Jobber”: Re “Petramos’s j'arn (B. 8/6/’ll) of
the beery Poverty Pointer who said, .“Another of us
gone! ” when news of Irving’s death was cabled. I heard
him again last week. “Another of us knighted!” he
said, over another pint, when news came through
that George Alexander had been branded.
H. B. Irving’s advent in “Hamlet” reminds
that Henry pere jettisoned quite a lot of tradi-
tion in his representation of the melancholy Dane.
Thus he dressed the old chap in a red cloak. This
shocked the Philistines, one of whom indignantly
rushed the mummer with chapter and verse for “my
inky cloak.” “Ah,” said Henry, affably; “you’ve
evidently never heard of red ink."”
. “Stargazer”: Irving the younger told Melbourne
interviewers that he was an enthusiastic criminologist,
and dearly loved a murderer. But ho said nothing
about critics. This association of ideas springs from
the remark of another big pro. recently in Australia
who was heard to say that he could not understand
why men took to criticism when there were so
many more interesting forms of villainy open
to them. This latter gentleman did not hesi-
tate to tell the pressmen doing theatrical notices
that they were all mistaken where thev differed
with him. According to his idea theatrical criticism
is only useful to “the artist” as water is to mus-
tard —in assisting him to draw.
Song of preys, heard most frequently in London
since _ louseph Ward and other hard-borrowing
Premiers arrived: “Oh, Promise Me!”
“Stargazer” : In “Nobody’s Daughter,” at Melbourne
Princess s, there is the now much too-familiar dispu-
tation between man and woman re the war of the
sexes, and, of course, man, the mite, gets outed in
two rounds. Since Ibsen, no man has been able to
argue his cause on the boards. The shaggy Scan-
dinavian set the example by bringing the female out
with flying petticoats, with the result that play-
wrights now put arguments into the mouths of al-
legedly intellectual males that would discredit a petu-
lant ploughboy. In “Nobody’s Daughter,” the right
one of the sex to have a clandestine baby, and keep
it _ dark from her subsequent hubby, is gravely main-
tained, with all the logic the playwright is capable
of, when, as a matter of fact, as long as we retain
our present notions of a square deal, such a woman
should be liable to prosecution for false pretences,
breach of contract and common fraud. The woman’s
attitude in Paston’s play practically denies man’s
right to be the sole father of his own family.
Rivers Allpress, the violinist, who left Sydney six
or seven years ago, was recently married at Johan-
nesburg, South Africa, and has settled down there.
Now on his way to show in Australia, an Irish
giant almost tall enough to look over the National
Debt. His name is Murphy, and this paper is
going to give him a letter of introduction to Dill
Snowball.
“Busk”: “Poverty Point” (B. 22/6/’ll) men-
tions the death of Mrs. Griffiths, daughter of the emi-
nent comedian G. H. Rogers, and sister of a jour-
nalist well known in Sydney and Melbourne., Rogers
was a soldier in Hobart, where his performances in
the garrison theatricals distanced all competitors.
Thence he went on the stage, and joined Coppin’s
co. In Melbourne he opened at the Queen’s Theatre
as Col. Dumas, in “The Lady of Lyons,” followed
next night by Sir Oliver Surface in “The School for
Scandal” to Coppin’s Sir Peter. The first carpet
seen on the Melbourne stage was laid that night.
Rogers afterwards acted Sir Peter Teazle on the open-
ing night of the Melbourne Theatre Royal; Jefferson,
Mathews, and other imported stars were amazed at
his excellence. Mrs. Griffiths was a public favorite
as Miss Emma Rogers. Mrs. Rogers was also a good
actress, and very welcome as a vocalist. Perhaps a
few vcnerables recall her duet with Coppin, “When a
Little Farm We Keep.”
London Standard’s musical critic says of Melba
that she cannot _ hope for ever to avoid payment of
the tax which time imposes upon all singers. Still
things are all right so far. “Her higher notes may
involve more effort in : their production than for-
merly, but the quality of her middle voice, its order
and control, the unswerving rectitude of her intona- .
tion, and the knack —it almost amounts to genius—-
of hitting each note, as cricketers say, plump in the
middle, are as remarkable as ever.”
Singer Charles Santley made what he alleged was
his final bow to the British public at the Crystal
Palace recently. The ancient is now 77.
“Bunce”: The German Emperor went to see Bul-
wer’s “Money,” at Drury Lane. Remember what
Blucher said when he viewed London from St. Paul’s:
“Oh! What plunder!”
“Vulcan”: “O.K.’s” version of the origin of the
“White-Eyed Kaffir’s” patch (B. 15/6/’ll), shows
how unreliable these mummers are. Chirgwin him-
self, in a recent interview, stated that his optical
piebaldness was quite accidental. He was doing
“nigger business” before an unresponsive bucolic
audience, when something got into his eye. He
rubbed vigorously, regardless of consequences. The
patch was one. Another was that the yokels doubled
themselves into 47 different convulsions. Chirgwin
took the hint—or, rather, says he did.
Australian dramatist Haddon Chambers promises
to make a commercial success of his “Passers-By”
at Wyndham’s Theatre, London. Three people drop
into a gentleman’s rooms. The first two, a dead-
beat and a cabby, are treated to food and the dis-
paraging glances of a haughty valet. The third, a
governess, is reserved for explanations by the owner
°f. the rooms. He; it appears, has had “relations”
with the lady: who produces a baby to prove that
the relations” were not disappointing. On this
theme Chambers plays with sentimental variations,
and, with the help of exceptionally good acting, gets
some pretty and convincing effects.
Melbourne’s town clerk and city organist seem to
have struck a good idea for increasing the' size of
the audiences at the Town Hall organ concerts on
Thursday < nights. Half an hour of free recital is
now being given, on each Wednesday afternoon, after
luncheon time, by way (1) of advertising the re-
citals, which cost sixpence, and (2) of luring casual
visitors of non-churchgoing habits into a liking for
the lost chord which sounds like a grand amen.
‘Q.” : Although the new all-day-long picture-
show is gathering sacksful of Melbourne “thrums”
and tanners,” experienced watchers of the game are
doubtful whether a continuous cinematograph is a
more real local requirement than was the two-shows-
a-night music-hall which somebody tried without
success some years ago. Perhaps this “Melba” pic-
ture theatre has the best possible location for an ail-
day-long biz of the. sort; but is the passing crowd
sufficiently large and mixed to supply the eternal
demand ? A little higher up in Bourke-street, the
Hoyt picture hall, crowded always at night, has
been running all-the-afternoon films" for the past year
or two ; but the “thrums” have rarely Streamed into
Hoyt’s during the small hours of the dav. They
have merely trickled. The solid support of "the old-
established film business thus far has been provided
by people who want full meals of pictures at stated
times, and will pay sixpence and .upwards for the
fare.
“Nobbvs”: A northern coal town is as proud of
its operatic society as it is of its big seams. ‘ The 1
society, like the industry, is, however, not entirely
free from strikes and lockouts. Recently the society
set out to produce “The Pirates of Penzance.” and the
rattle of coal skips was drowned by rehearsals. But just
before the great day dawned, the conductor decided
to down his baton until his grievances were re-
dressed. The Pirates looked blue; but great men
rise to the occasion. The great man this time was
the stage-manager. He wouldn’t know a crotchet
from a semi-quaver if he bumped them in the dark;
but he cheerfully took up the rejected stick, and the
orchestra shut its eyes and plugged along after the
leading violin. There may have been occasionally a
slight commotion in Sullivan’s grave; but that was
nothing to the dust-storm created in Gilbert’s casket
when the sergeant of police insisted on dragging
“I’ve Gotter Motter” in by the heels.
“0.K.”: Nobody seems to have definite ideas about
the result of the reckless picture competition
which is coming along in Melbourne. Yet it ought
to be clear that, with a hundred shows offering prac-
tically the same subjects that were formerly con-
fined to a few, only the fittest can survive the strain.
The best stands in city and suburbs will continue to
flourish ; but even at these the managements may be
driven to relieve the monotony of the eye-racking
entertainment with concert items or variety turns,
according to the class of their clientele.
Sousa’s Band struck Melbourne at its worst, and
summed it up as a city where the sun shone only
on the wettest days, and the rain ceased only when
it froze into hail.
“Bandsman”: When the Vic. Railway Band was in-
vited to join the massed band, which was being
whipped up to play the Sousas from the Melb.
station to the Town Hall, it sent back a chilly
answer to the effect that, if the syndicate wanted
this advt., it could get it on the usual terms.
Sousa’s was the third band for which local bandsmen
had been asked to blow a loud, free advt.; and the
railway men reckon that when the fourth lot arrive,
quite a number of other bands will give the same
answer as the rebels gave this time.
Ambrose Manning, playing with “The Whip” Co.
in M.L., tells of the haughty leading lady who would
persist in addressing her lines to the audience. The
cold, calculating villain was urging her to fly with
him, and be the worst woman out of gaol or some-
thing, but she scorned him. Standing before the
footlights she announced to the audience, with all
the firmness of outraged innocence, “I can never love
you.” “Ribuck,” said the hiocupy gentleman in the
front stalls; “that settles it, m’ dear.” And he
rose and solemnly departed.
“Snell”: “C. Ockney” (B. 22/6/’ll) animadverts
derisively on my criticism of that branch of theatri-
cal industry which produces copies in clay, of Lon-
don’s original comedians for Australian consumption.
I did not put the fact as a shocking new discovery;
I expected to start no river fires with the item. It
was merely a case of an old fact made marketable by
some striking modern instances. When “0. Ockney”
defends the game, and asks, “What would you ?” I
merely answer that I would have these actor-men
who prate so much of their art play the game and
deliver the goods, their own honestly-manufactured ar-
ticle, and not make audiences receivers of stolen
property—receivers who are as bad as the thieves
when they countenance and applaud the picking and
stealing. In other arts, embezzlers are liable to be
pinched; and I shall continue to throw bricks at
dramatic larcenists in the hope that there may
eventually be sufficient to build a gaol.
■Willie Watt has lost at one blow the re-
putation for astuteness which his admirers
had carefully raised. In the Bendigo East
election, just won by Labor member Hamp-
son, there were two alleged Liberals, Curnow
and Murphy. Willie became persuaded
that if one retired the other might win. So
he motored to Bendigo on a Sunday, and
persuaded Murphy to retire, on the promise
that if Curnow was beaten, Murphy would
get the Ministry’s support next time. Mur-
phy was cute enough to get this promise into
the papers; therefore, when election dav
came, the Murphyites enthusiastically stayed
away from the poll to give their own man a
chance next November. The disappointed
Curnowites are waiting to pay them out in
the same way next time, and Hampson sits
and smiles. He probably would have won
and held the seat anyhow, but the diplomacv
of Willie has made him absolutely safe.
“Isaac Gumboil, J.P.” : The red-faced man
m a light grey suit and a smart brown
boxer stood on the steps of the big hotel and
gazed vacantly at the whisky ad. on the
building- opposite. Gradually he became
aware of a golden-haired vision—of dark,
eager eyes and dazzling teeth, smiling lur-
ingly into his face. “You’ll give me a shil-
ling, won’t you?” she said enticingly; “come
on, only a shilling.” A gleam of compre-
hension lightened his vapid eyes, and,
Mosht ’stroardin’ry; mosht ’stroardin’ry—
hie!” he muttered incredibly. “But cer’ain-
> cer ainly—wha’sh the—hie —addresh,
m dear l Next moment a hospital-collec-
tion box came into violent contact with the
side of his head, and a pair of glittering
eyes vanished in a swirl of angry, hissing
draperies. “Mosht ’stroardin’ry; mosht
HIC- stroardin’ry!” mumbled the reptile as
he replaced his lid and stared wonderingly
at the girl on the whisky poster.
The Ma State’s big and mostly good-
natured policeman was kept pretty busv in
1910. Compared with 1909 there were 2607
more cases of apprehension and summons;
but the serious offences were fewer by 98,
although the professors of garrotting, as-
sault and robbery and stealing from the
person increased their little list by 20 op-
erations. In Sydney metropolis itself, the
returns show 15 fewer offences against the
person, _lb fewer offences against propertv
with violence, 165 fewer offences against
property without violence, and 1399 fewer
offences against good order. Property
amounting to £12,884 was reported stolen,
and ±Bl1 1, or 63 per cent., was recovered.
Superintendent Roche has an idea that a
« ir ™ sat . lsf actory account has been giVen
ot all serious crime, and that many of the
reports of robbery were bogus, and were
made merely to cloak personal foolishness. In
view of all these things, and of the Corona-
tion, the least the man in blue deserved
was to be tapped on the shoulder with his
baton, and told to rise Sir John Dunn
Knight—not forgetting Day.
THE SOUR CERBERUS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I was an actor long ago.
One night I fell, and broke my leg.
It spoiled my “walking gent,” and so
1 had to turn to work or beg.
If I’d but broke my head as ill,
And seen the brains completely spill,
I might have been an actor still!
Now I’m the keeper of the door.
I pass the foolish people in.
I hear the hoarse tragedian roar,
See virtue triumph over sin.
True Cerberus am I; I sit
And most mischievously admit
The little sinners to the Pit.
I know the actor as a bore;
He wearies me with prose or verse.
He wore my nerves to rags of yore—-
The old were bad, the new are worse.
Oh, could' I only keep the rout
Who fatuously laugh and shout
Till would pay to be let out!
But here about the door I range,
And watch “the dull demnition grind”
Of prosy pros, that never change,
And plays to suit the deaf and blind.
My consolation is that they
Who run the shows have got to pay
One man to see their actors play!
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.
STALE.
[FOR THE BULLEITN.]
As criticism nowadays
The egg is quite a stale device;
But still, to signify dispraise,
’Tis used in dim, provincial ways
By auditors not over nice.
When Seymore Sullivan McGee
AVas acting up at More-or-Less
In Ingomar (a part which he
Had “played for half a centuree,”
And with “unqualified success”),
A fellow in the gallery threw
An egg, and smote the leading gent.
But Seymore simply answered, “Phew!
Young man, you may object, but you
Have offered no fresh argument!”
VICTORIA.
SNELL.


f
WINTER SALE
A Bargain in Men’s Underwear.
Natural Wool Vests and Pants, unshrinkable, heavy winter
weight or light medium weight, very special quality.
, , , oa Qn oq ,a Usual Price. Sale Price.
VESTS—Uonsr or short sleeves. Sizes-34, 36, 38, 40,
44 inches chest measurements
PANTS—In sizes 34, 36, 38, 40, 44 inches waist ~, ~g
measurements .. •• •• / J
OUR SALE CATALOGUE —FREE.
You cannot realise the limitless
priye advantages this Sale .offers
unless you possess a copy. Write
immediately for yo.ur copy, and
we will mail it absolutely free of
charge.
WE PAY CARRIAGE
On all Goods except Furniture,
Floor-Coverin'? Kitchen and Hard-
ware to any part of,the -Common-
wealth.. Only on Toys when
ordered with other sroods.
DAVID JONES LTD.,
Opp. 0.P.p., SYDNEY.
HOW TO RELIEVE THE PANGS OF
RHEUMATISM, LUMBAGO, SCIATICA,
ETC.
A Prescription Free.
The following simple proscription, written
by a very famous physician enjoying a most
extensive practice as a specialist in all fqpms
of Rheumatism, Lumbago, jSciatica, and Kid-
ney and Bladder troubles, will be found to
afford immediate relief, and, if persisted ip
for a short time, will completely cure these
troublesome ailments.
The Prescription.
Tincture Gentian Compound, one ounce:
Syrup Rhubarb Aromatic, pne ounce; Liquid
Barkola Comnound, one ounce; SyruP of
Ginger, five ounces.
The dose for adults is one teaspoonful
taken after meals, and one at bed-time.
Children should be given one-fourth to one-
half teaspoonful, after meals only.
We are glad to publish this prescription,
as we know it will help our afflicted readers
who give it a fair trial. If taken continu-
ously for a few weeks, it will be found to
be an almost absolutely certain cure for
Rheumatism, Kidney and Bladder trouble,
Backache and all allied complaints,*
SOCIETY
PENFOLD'S
WINES
COURTING , A LA WOWSERESS.
“ E r —did you shave this evening, Herbert?”
“Yes."
And perfume your hair?"
“ Yes, dear."
“And no nasty tobacco smoke about your
mouth? "
“ No, love."
“ Er —then you may kiss Tiny good-night."
“O. B. J. Burrs” on some unpleasant
neighbors:—
Maoriland treats its defunct with a casualness that
is characteristic of the loan land o’ quakes. In
Auckland corpses are dropped in odd corners of the
morgue, while the authorities stroll out to view
the races or football matches. Occasionally they are
forgotten until they protest in terms which make
the resident plague-germs gasp for breath. In one
case a cadaver had been allowed to linger around for
six days; then a reporter strolled in to see what
the disturbance was about. No one knew when the
funeral was to be; no one seemed to care. An-
other instance was that of a citizen in an “ad-
vanced stage,” who was hauled out of the harbor.
This body, like Tybalt, lay festering in its shroud for
five days. Cases of this kind are “not infrequent.”
The body of an infant, which had been buried for
a month in a garden, was exhumed and taken round
to the corpse museum and placed on exhibition.
After it had been aired for nine days someone was
suddenly struck with the quaint notion that it
might be a good thing to re-inter it. The idea
seems to be to leave the deeply lamented lying about
until the parties responsible for the burial fees are
located. In the interval some of the subjects become
extremely unpleasant. The railway authorities are
quite as casual. One sot of remains which was being
brought on to Masterton was dropped at a wayside
station to make room for some horse-boxes. Mean-
time bands of Druids, 1.0.G.T.’5, etc, were waiting
in a drenching rain for a corpse that failed to ar-
rive. Eventually the railway people sneaked it in at
the dead of night. Several other corpses have been
left about in odd places until they have demurred
at the long stoppages. One man happened to catch
the guard in the act of shooting the mortuary van
containing the relics of his mother-in-law on to a
remote siding on the Rimutalca. The guard was
immediately threatened with the contents of a bottle
of Scotch. lie tacked that van on again mighty
quick. On the whole it looks as if the Maoriland
Government is determined to discourage the lmbb
of dying as much as possible. Still, 1 wish Jijtimy
Carroll would think up some other way.
♦ * * *
A crowd of unassisted immigrants by the
Athenic, bound for N.S.W., via Hobart,
waited upon Tasmanian Chief Sec. Butler
the other day, and asked him to advise them
how to exist in Hobart for four days on
3s. (id. apiece. It appears they were told
by the'shipping agents in London that di-
rectly they reached Hobart they could step
on to the steamer for Sydney. But as the
Athenic arrived in Hobart on Friday, and
the next boat for Sydney was not leaving
until late on Monday, they found themselves
stranded. They had sent all their money to
Sydney, to await their arrival in the Ma
State, only retaining sufficient small change
to last them through the voyage. The bit-
terest gall was supplied by the fact that the
assisted immigrants by the same steamboat
were provided for by the N.S.W. Government,
while the immigrants who had scraped up the
full passage-money were left to shift for them-
selves. Just before the angry crowd de-
cided to march to the Mercury office and
smash the windows in order to get into
gaol, a terrified Chief Sec. resourcefully
served out a handful of lodging-house tickets.
An Adelaide man has at last been given
the benefit of the doubt, after hanging for
several months on about the finest point on
record. Call him A. He brought some water
to put out a fire that was licking up a cart,
and somehow threw it over a man who was
holding the horse’s head. B was helping
also, and found fault with A; so they had
a round. A being 9st., and B 13st., A’s
brother took a hand ; and B went over back-
wards and damaged his head fatally. There
was a sort of interval in the fight, and the
question seemed to be whether it was all
one scrap —in which case self-defence would
be a complete answer —or a fresh attack by
A—in which case it would be manslaughter.
Two juries in succession said they couldn’t
decide, and lately a third one said the same
thing with equal emphasis. But, as the
case threatened to become a serial story and
a chronic nuisance, the Judge told the third
lot that it really must settle it somehow, so
(presumably after having another look at
the weights) it said Not Guilty. It seems
a fair thing to say, anyhow, seeing that, out
of three juries, not one had been able to say
the opposite.
When'S. Aus. got a Labor Government
which saw no reason why it should rub
salt into the wounds of its brother-Britishers
or the Transvaal, it immediately removed
from the halls of the Government offices the
unsightly Boer rifles captured in the war.
Since then, the S. Aus. Returned Farm-
Burners’ Association has been agitating to
get the guns back into a public place, and
even threatened that, unless they immedi-
ately (dis)graced the Adelaide Town Hall,
it would call in the Federal Government
and have Verran rebuked. The Federal
Government has, however, refused to have
anything to do with the matter; and as the
anpeal to the Premier of the State and the
Prime Minister of the Commonwealth seems
to have no effect, the best thing may be to
appeal to the Prime Minister of the handi-
est British Federation for help; and as he
happens to be General Botha, no doubt he
will himself come over and hang the but-
chering implements up personally. Mean-
time the ex-farm burners want the guns to
go into the Public Library or Museum ; but
those institutions haven’t gone mad with
joy at the proposal. In fact, the guns look
so" much like any other old guns that no
building except a pawnshop would willingly
have them lying about.
ESTABLISHING HIS CLAIM.
MAGISTRATE : “ You have resided in Vic-
toria for the last 59 years. You're
quite an old resident."
CLAIMANT: “ That's nothin' , Mister. Me grand-paids bin ’ ere since ’37.”
MAGISTRATE: “ Gracious! what age is he?"
CLAIMANT “He isn't no age. He's been where the blacks speared him at the Desolation
Peaks yo years ago."
When the Duke of York, now George V.,
was passing through one of M.L.’s “dry”
districts, some of the Australasian attaches
discovered that they had brought no supply
of nightcap with them. There was plenty
water, but nothing with which to break it
down, so one well-kuown member of the
party was appointed to obtain the requisite
ingredients. At the first town at which
the lioyal train stopped, he was enabled, by
the good services of a. local chemist, to ob-
tain a case of bottled beer, but up till just
before the train started again in the even-
ing he had got nothing else —and something
else was very desirable. Walking discon-
solately up and down the station platform
in the gathering darkness, he observed, near
the Duke’s car, what appeared to
be a case of whisky. Now, it is lawful to
confiscate liquor found in a prohibition dis-
trict, and the outraged observer promptly
confiscated this particular case. The in-
furiated caterer doesn’t know to this day
who stole the Duke’s champagne!
* * * *
“Curse o’ Maori” writes:- —
That kindly race which the island suns of Maoriland
have tanned to a delicate shade of brown is holding
its own. The Maori shows an increase of 1000 in
population on 10 years’ operations,, and the old gag
that the race is dying is as dead as the lie Ananias
told Peter or somebody. Every indication points to
the fact that the sturdy race which produced Hinemoa
and Te Rauparaha will pull through. The initial loss
through contact with Europeans is over,_ and the
Maori, being an Aryan and a white man, is settling
down to a long and useful innings under civilised con-
ditions. This is very .much as it ought to be.
Maoriland took in hand the task that had beaten all
others of bringing an aboriginal race up to the level
of its conquerors by fair dealing and equal treatment.
Thanks mainly, to Hori Grey, a fine beginning was
made many years ago; and, although the game is not
yet at an'end, it is fair enough to reckon that the
policy will be successful. Other experiments in civil-
ising native races were mostly conducted with the
rifle. Hori Grey, realising that the race he was
dealing with was a white one that had merely fallen
up against a lack of clothing and scarcity of morals,
thought that seats in Parliament _ might prove more
useful than gunpowder. They did. The Maori is
going on well, and while leaders like Ngata keep to
the fore, is likely to bear his full part in the building
of a nation in louland. He has a big heart, and
even the size of the Dominion debt doesn’t fill him
with a desire to get into his canoe and return to
Hawaiki.
•***■“•
“Blanco,” cn the fight to keep the kilts :
“Button-stick” (B. 8/6/’ll) had better take two
paces to the rear and dig up a few of his facts, He
seems to know a lot about the S’African unpleasant-
ness ; but he has conveniently overlooked the fact
that the Highland Brigade was put into trousers as
soon as practicable in 1900, and did not get the
kiltie back until all the big fighting was: done. When
it did get the kilt back it also got a khaki apron to
weal in front, as without something of the sort the
Scotchmen had been too good a mark for the Dutch
sharp-shooter. Presuming “Button-stick” took part
in the late war, he is probably familiar with the
“greyback." Can he imagine a better breeding place
for them than the top of the kilt, i,e,, the part which
goes round the waist ?
* * * *
On Coronation Eve a Maori boy, 17 years
of age, wag hanged in Mount Eden gaol for
the murder of a gumdigger —the first execu-
tion at Auckland for nearly 20 years. Just
before the lever was pulled, the youngster
cried “Hurrah!” And hard upon its echo
rose tne swelling cheers for the crowning of
a futile King with a comic-opera hat —cheers
which rolled across the world from church to
pub, from pub to church. Millions of voices
clamored to the Divine ear in the interests of
a tame King in Westminster, what time the
Divine mind mayhap grappled with the pro-
blem of a small wild Soul cheering on a
hangman’s scaffold.
“Billy T.” : Met one of our assisted immi-
grants as I was cording down Collins-street
the other wet night. He stuck me up in a
dark place, and solicited Gd. for a bed. Go-
ing up the street I had given him 6d. for a
bed. I asked him how many beds he needed.
He grumbled something about “you people”
who had brought him to this blighted coun-
try. “But can’t you get work?” I asked.
“Work!” he snorted disgustedly. “Work!
D’yeh think I came ; all this way to work?”
Then, after a pause: “You tvould have me.
Well, now you’ve got me. What’re yeh goin’
t’ do about it?”
* * * *
Last week Melbourne saw the last joints
of the tail of the old North Melbourne Ben-
evolent Asylum scurrying round the corner.
The foundation-stone of the original small
block was laid on June 24, 1850, but' subse-
quent additions made it a huge pile, contain-
ing over a million bricks altogether. Now
the knackers have got it for £2381, and the
dismantled ancients whom it sheltered have
been taken to the new home at Cheltenham.
■ This barracklike series of buildings,, placed
lonely on a bare hill, may be a pleasant even-
tide restingplace in a few years, when the
newly-planted trees have grown; hut to-day
its newness, and its forbidding tidings, and
especially its isolation, make the old folks
long for the old home.
* * * *
Joseph Ward, of Maoriland, has achieved
a baronetcy by dint of prodigious devotion
to the Hempire; and the sin of Joe may be
visited upon Maoriland from generation to
generation. Hemocracy can afford to smile
bitterly at knights of no importance ; but at
the baronet who practically creates a title
for his successor it has no option but to
frown severely. As a mere knight, Ward’s
indiscretion would die with him; but as a
baronet, lou is the possible great-grcat-
grandsire of an infant who will succeed to
the title in his cradle, and parents of the
urchin’s mates will compete for the privi-
lege of having the dear little snub-nose- to
visit them. Thus every baronet casts a
shadow bf snobbery before him; and thereat
Democracy tears its hair.
PUTTING BACK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
After leaving Durban tlie Chinese firemen refused
to obey the orders of the engineers. Ultimately
things got so bad that the captain, after consulting
with the engineers and officers, decided to put back
to Mauritius, a distance of about 800 miles. —Daily
paper.
’Fore we hail the nearest copper we’ve eight hundred
miles to go ;
We’ve a crew of dancin’ pigtails and some case oil
down below ;
There’s been trouble in the stokehole and we haven’t
no desire
For to wrestle in mid-ocean with a blanky ship afire.
We are makin’ for Mauritius —which is five days’
steam or more —
And we’ll dump our load of Peril on that lonely
island shore ;
Then we’ll ship whatever offers, and we’ll get to
sea again—
But we’ll quit experimentin’ with the breed o’ col-
ored men !
They’ve been talkin’ bloody murder to the engineers,
an’ one
Started spittin’ at the Second, so it’s time to get
your gun 1 ;
If we carried gen’ral cargo, we might let the butts
be seen;
But you want a peaceful heathen when you’re loaded
with benzine.
So we’re maltin’ for Mauritius, feelin’ anythin’ but
gay ;
], is awkward when the handcuffs are eight hundred
miles away.
Every watch we’re gettin’ nearer. They can’t guess
where they are bound,
For the funnel still is smokin’ and the screw keeps
goin’ found.
Though he’s always up to somethin’ for himself or
yellow friends,
Chink is spoken of respectful where they bag the
dividends;
But he’s got an ugly temper, and it’s never nice to be
With the smell of China round you where there’s
only slty and sea.
So we’re pluggin’ for Mauritius —there’s eight hun-
dred miles to go — t
And the bridge keeps askin’ softly how they’re gettin’
on below ;
Ev’ry pigtail looks as savage as his special, home-
made god,
But we’ll try and keep ’em stokin’ till they stoke
themselves' to quod !
N.S.W.
WHITE AUSTRALIA.


sd
Half
For all
domestic uses,
the toil of
household work is
done away with
k when Sunlight i
V Soap enters /
the home,
No. 57. GUARANTEED UNDER THE
"PURE FOOD ACT, 1908,"
BY LEVER BROTHERS LIMITED,
SYDNEY, N.S.W, No. 67.
A SLUGGISH CIRCULATION,jbegqtten ofise'dahtary i
habits, leads to congestion of the brain, liver'ana other "
onrans. The best remedy for this undesirable state of
affairs is to stimulate the activity of the whole bodilv
economy by taking a wineglassful of “ Hdnyadi Janos ”
natural aperient water every morning*.*
Wild’s Hairdressing Rooms, 30 Upstairs,
Sydney Arcade, George and King Streets, Sydney, is the:
proper place to go if you want the best of attention..
Electric head and face massage done in the latest
American style. Hours of business : '8.30 to 6.30 ; Satur-
day close at 1 o’clock.*
fsd
A Warm Rug Like This
is Always Handy!
16/6
ONE never knows the moment when one may be called to make
a journey for some reason or other, and a good rug is then
indispensable. This we illustrate is splendid value. It is
Merino Wool—mixture plaid, woven for us by a leading’ British
Manufacturer, and may be had in a nice range of Green, Grey, Blue
or Brown Check effects—reversible, with the obverse side' plain
..It is full size with fringed ends, and for all its warmth it is only
-medium weight.
Price 16)6 Posted 1/- extra.
PEAPES CO. Ltd.,
“ Men’s
Outfitters,”
309-311 George Street, SYDNEY.
“Ancient Mariner,” on Tasmanian ship-
ping law: —
Par. (B. 15/6/’ll) re the Orontes-Thelma col-
lision implies that a Tasmanian Court of Marine En-
quiry has no jurisdiction to “deal with” a certificate,
notwithstanding it finds the holder of it in fault.
Courts of Marine Enquiry in Tasmania do, however,
possess the power —if they proceed the right way.
The Statutes give the Court power to cancel or sus-
pend, but they very properly require that it shall
not exercise such power unless the person liable to be
affected is served with a copy of the Harbor Master’s
preliminary report on which the proceedings are in-
stituted before the commencement of the inquiry.
This very fair requirement was not complied with in
the case in question ; hence the fly in the ointment.
If Courts which sit to administer law will not them-
selves observe it, they must not complain if they are
stripped of their authority. By the way, the captain
was not fined £5O : he was cast in costs, which may
come to £5O. Not being satisfied with this finding,
he is carrying the case to Westminster, and hopes to
get rid of some of the disadvantages that fall
heavily on a stranger in the Hobart village.
An Adelaide man has sustained one of the
oddest libel actions on record against an-
other, who wrote to the papers suggesting
that J.P.-shms should be given only to men
of good repute. “When one hears that
‘Flipperty Kick’ or ‘Shady Joe’ is gazet-
ted, it is quite time,” he said, “that some
other method was adopted.” The writer
signed his real name, and the dailies ac-
cepted the letter as quite impersonal; but a
newly-appointed J.P. arose to claim that it
was aimed at him. He alleged—(l) That
“Flipperty Kick” could easily be recognised
as “Slippery Dick” ; (2) that he was known
as “Slippery Dick”; (3) that he wasn’t
slippery. He assessed the damage to his
feelings with great nicety at £299. The
Court looked dubious, and gave him 40s.
“with Costs” ; but the Costs that go with a
verdict for under £5 in the S. Aus. courts
are hardly worth collecting.
On top of the shindykit that proposes to
buy out all Melbourne dairymen, and run the
business on a wholesale plan, comes a Co-op-
erative Pure Milk Supply Society, Ltd.,
formed of a majority of the outer suburban
milk producers, under the care of the Civil
Service Co-operative Stores. This under-
taking makes large promises to both pro-
ducers and public ; so there is evidently not
going to be an end of the absurd multiplica-
tion of vendors which leads to outrageous ex-
penses, watered milk and starved infants,
The one obvious way out is a municipal milk
monopoly. Three years ago Laborite Solly
laid before Richmond Council full details of
such a scheme, which, by eliminating the
present waste in the distribution, would
have given the citizens really pure milk, at
far less than they have to pay for the adul-
terated article now. But, as the proposal
emanated from Labor, every council turned
it down—though if Labor isn’t entitled to
feel particularly interested in this pure and
cheap milk question, it isn’t entitled to take
more interest in anything than a cabbage
does.
* * * *
The recently-cabled item of news, to the
effect that the lawyers had wolfed
£38,500,000 out of the £40,000,000 worth of
Church property resumed by the State in
France, recalls Lord Brougham’s definition:
“The lawyer is a gentleman who rescues your
estate froth your keeps it for
himself!”
A SHORT CUT.
THE WOWSER (who has seen aviator plunge through bar window): “Oh, that awful
drink! What a craving he must have had!"
From London (a month before the crown-
ing folly of 1911) :
The London churches on the route of the Corona-
tion procession are “on the make.” They have sur-
rendered for lump sums, cash down, every available
square inch of space to Jewish and pagan speculators,
who are erecting towering stands around the sacred
places and charging for them at the rate of five
guineas a seat. Sortie disgusted, old-fashioned Chris-
tian hits hired sandwich-men to promenade London
streets, displaying front and back boards with this
inscription: “It iS. written that My house is a house
of prayer, but ve have made it a den of thieves.”
WHERE MAN GETS HIS OWN BACH.
FAIR CUSTOMER : “If you sold that ,many
harem skirts , whatever has become of
them? ”
PLAIN DEALER : “ Well, madam , the trade
reports a marked decline in the demand for
gent.s' pyjamas."
“Klinker” : Our second engineer—Scotch, of
course —is the most methodical mon I know.
He has been trained to do everything ac-
cording to schedule. One of our firemen had
his fingers smashed last trip, and, on reach-
ing Sydney, went to “the second” for a note
to take to the hospital. The second thought
a minute, then dived into a drawer and
took out a printed form for engine-room
use. It was headed—•“ Requisition for Re-
pairs.” He filled it in, and his orderly soul
was satisfied
Floods snread themselves around Mel-
bourne last week, and turned the Yarra at
Fairliekl into the placid lake, five miles long
by a mile wide, that late Engineer Thwaites
dreamed of. Though millions of tons of tur-
gid fluid were pouring through the narrow
chasm at the Pound Bend, below Warran-
dyte, and other millions were tumbling over
Dights’ Falls, the lake itself was outwardly
as still as the dead Chinaman, who is sup-
posed to lie among his cabbage-plots 10ft.
below. In one wide space above the Outer
Circle bridge, not a tree nor fence broke the
sunlit waste—only one bare, black stalk
stood upright, the funnel of an irrigation
plant! At the bottom of a slope behind Kew
an almost submerged board notified that
these desirable villa sites were for sale —
which was evidently a misprint. Though
the improvements to the lower Yarra kept
the stream 10ft. below the ’9l level, the
/larger submerged area higher up showed
that that year’s downpour had been beaten,
so the oldest inhabitant had to rum-
mage still further ,afield. Mostly he went
back ,to the excessive moisture of ’7O, though
one ancient pointed to a shanty on a hill as
the recorded height of the ’63 flood. But the
shanty happened to be a shifted house of the
post-boom days, so that oldest inhabitant
struck a piece of bad luck.
An old book has been dug out of the mould
of the Wellington (M.L.) Museum, which
throws some interesting light on the rela-
tions between the adventurous white trader
and the Maori cannibal of old. It is “The
Remarkable History of
Barnet Burns, an Eng-
lish Sailor, with a
Faithful Account of
the Way in which He
Became a Chief ot
One of the Tribes of
New Zealand, together
with a Few Remarks
on the Manners and
Customs of the People
and Other Interesting
Matter. Written bv
Himsel f. Belfast.
Printed by 11. and D.
Read, Crown Entry
1844.” Burns was ap-
pointed a trading mas-
ter for L. Baron Mon-
tefiore, a Sydney mer-
chant, in 1829,'at £4
a month and 5 per
cent, on all flax (to be
valued at £l2 per ton),
and sailed out of Port
Jackson in the schoon-
er Darling. He was
ppt ashore at Mahia,
bn the east coast of
the North Island, and
remained there 11
months, married a
chief’s daughter, moved
on with her to Pov-
erty Bay to save his
life, joined another
tribe, fought for them.,
was taken prisoner by
the enemy, was tat-
tooed, “got particularly
acquainted” with the
head chief’s daugh-
ter (who helped him
to escape), fought
again with his old
tube, stormed pas, saw the maddest canni-
balls tic orgies (60 prisoners eaten at a sit-
ting) , and after eight years returned to civil-
isation. Ilis account of the roasting of a
woman puts the “romantic” Maori back in
his class. She was the wife of a chief, and
was captured in an endeavor to escape:—
She was- ordered to prepare some potatoes for
cooking with herself, and to gather green leaves
, f, th j? ov , en - llle savage made a large earth stove,
laid the leaves on the hot stones, tied both legs
together herself, and then asked one of the party
t 0 G £ er I hahcls - When this was done she took
a friendly leave of two or three persons that she
knew, and then threw herself down on the leaves
When she was over the fii;e she begged some of
the party to knock her Brains out, but this they
; they kept her on the fire a few minutes,
then laid potatoes over her and covered her with
earth—aye, before life was half gone—until she
was cooked fit for eating.
Burns says the joints were divided up
amongst the captors of the banquet, and that
none of the flesh was allowed to go to
waste, which shows the frugality of ihe
simple cannibal even when surrounded with
plenty.
* * * *
“Quidam”: Despite republic, referendum,
compulsory service, and all the rest of it, I
have incontrovertible proof that the Swiss
are steeped in either barbarism or Wowser-
lsm. -the proof V Certainly! I produce a
Swiss army knife, a weapon with the Swiss
flag on one side and a blade, tin-onener
screw-driver and punch in the innards. This
is the accredited pocket knife of the Swiss
army, and it has no corkscrew! Desultory
association with various military persons
impels me to ask: “Can any civilised army
get along without a corkscrew?” The only
saving; clause is that climatic conditions
may allow the beer to be tinned instead of
bottled, and the tin-opener therefore may
for purposes of friendly argument, be re-
garded as a corkscrew. Possibly Senator
, e ?/ ce . knows. Anyway, I’ll bet our army
knife has a corkscrew. If not, there won’t
be much army.
There are ructions in certain high quar-
ters in a down-south capital, and various
staid official gentlemen glare furiously if the
word “umbrella” is mentioned in their bear-
ing- It appears that at the Guv'ment
House King’s Birthday dinner, early this
month, a hivh official lost his gamp. He flew
for sympathy to the Private Secretary, and
that well-meaning but fatuous Johnny
promptly sent out a circular to the guests
saying, in effect, “If you have Mr. Blank’s
umbrella, please send it to me.” He did not
add: “To save further proceedings.” That
would not have done; because one of the re-
cipients was no less than the Lieut.-Gover-
nor and Chief Justice, who might have
bucked at any suggestion of compounding a
felony. Those who know the Lieut.-Gover-
nor can imagine the scene when the tactful
missive reached him. One of the guests re-
plied to the circular: “The umbrella now in
my possession is branded on the handle
with my name. I imagine that I may there-
fore leave the Court without a stain on my
character.” Even the Private Sec: probably
kicked himself when he finished reading that
reply.
A new form of the “no-encnmbrance”
curse (from S. M. Herald)
REF. Widow, no encum., hlthy, nice d., des acq. eld.
gent., g. pos., view matr. Country, P. 0., N. Shore.
As the . “Ref. Widow des. acq. ELD.
gent., it looks as if she didn’t mean to
have any ‘encum.” It’s income she’s after,
no doubt.
A CLOSE SHAVE.
THE OFFICER: “ What's his number
THE VICTIM: “I didn't get it; but he's a
barber.”
THE OFFICER : “ How do you know?"
THE VICTIM: "He must be. He went over
my face twice."
“Woomelang” : Royal Commissions being
the fashion with the N.S.W. Government, I
want to know when one is to be appointed to
make a few inquiries into this slavery of
cow children. Recently a cocky hired a boy
of 14 years at 7s. 6d. a week “to bail up and
wash cans.” The boy returned home for a
visit a few weeks later, and questioning
brought out the fact that he rose at 4 a.m.,
went for the. cows, took his turn at milking
(doing his nine an hour), helped in the pad-
docks until 4 p.m., brought in the cows
again, milked his share, and, after cleaning
up generally, carted water from the river to
the lmuse. A milker, harvest-hand, and
rousey for three half-crowns a week! No
wonder the industry pays.
A LOOK AHEAD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
V anted to Exchange, Gas Stove for Verandah or
Garden Seats. —S. M. Herald.
Whenas across the hard, brown, dusty lee
These bitter nights,
The seasonable West Wind hurtles free,
And barks and bites
Like some big dog, unchained and on the spree,
We shivering wights
Do altogether love
To gather round the stove—
Our good Australian stove—
Whereon fair whisky, hot (with sugar, lemon and
sundries) our grateful taste invites—
(The wind) Wheeee-ee-ee-oooh !
We think upon the merry Summer time,
Now past and gone;
Which yet (ah, wonder never told in rhyme!)
Will come anon;
Warm airs, still waters, flowers in their prime.
And Winter done! . . .
But, now f Our stove !
We gather round our stove—
Our true Australian stove!
For, see the kettle boils, the grog is made; so,
drink 1 old Whisky is the One!
(The Wind) B-r-r-r-eeee-whee-ee-ooooh!
The stars are steely bright; the piercing gale
Roars through the streets!
It passes, rises, falls to a low wail,
Ere it repeats.
Well, drink! Anon shall come a Summer tale,
And Summer heats,
When we may rove
With Her we love. . . .
But nov) —our stove !
We gather round our stove—■
Our hot Australian stove!
Here’s luck! . . . But, still, we’ll look ahead, and
advertise our Stove for Garden Seats!
(The Wind) Br-r-roo-000-mp! Whoosh!
N.S.W.
O. C. CABOT.


Why not cut out the birds and su * ) *
stitute crocodiles ? There should he •
good thing in crocodiles-
to. c-w
of a.vr <s ' J> e
«r?, s 2 J
fou»J *i \
I '
George Reid, though personally more
successful than any of his official rivals
in London, finds it an uphill business
to make Australia known.
-$ e SwlleiiTn / e
iS *7° r « we *> o< 7 m
—v
CiCoti)c *—— &. , you K« 10W 1 A Ic
J?|fc.ce of . A u st~rz\ls Zk .
We V<e »<o
me*Ttonedi it can h«s rduri? ?
Mr Watt remarked at Bendigo on t
Wednesday, the Murray Government
■• did things, and wanted to pass
down to posterity as the __
Government which ~~~
Unquestionably the policy ot s
White Australia must be main*
tained, though there is no neces*
sity that it should be asserted in
the aggressive, offensive way often
adopted by its extreme advocates
Tffe Dewe - Of .only
tW Wretched exfanrr.s'tv "'•*
Object" to few spot* ° n ™ s on
Vt - erjoi/^
SKitfe j?ro-
I Am'l"’
1vevc never qow'
To t e a 7 . (>
pe*'fo*'ft7&,nc e
THE FLOODS.
/floods We 2$ 'to
x e vtfisT
\j'ndey<f&YiAirjg of'
floJvn™ ' -*>
\>o\>U lfc‘flOl'7
Sir Aimroth Wright has looked into the
bacteriology ol the question. He finds
that a great deal ol washing increases
the microbes ol the skin, and thinks
tnat cleanliness, as practised on the per*
son. is not to be recommended as a hy-
gienic method
D D^ n %'S *s °f
, orWM Tw i^<c i eb > n- f
lines'? objec."ie4 if
os/cS" o" otate.
A DAMP WEEK DOWN SOUTH.


LEWIS & WHITTY’S OLIVE OIL.
Guaranteed in conformity with the PURE
FOOD REGULATIONS of the Australian States.
LEWIS 3c WHITTY, Melbourne and Sydney. tl
McKENZIE’S EXCELSIOR BAKING POWDER.
BUYERS’
APPROVAL
MEANS
Great Output, and that necessitates Increased Space and Facilities.
Satisfied buyers with us are so numerous that we have had to
greatly enlarge our premises.
Customers of 25 years ago are to-day our largest buyers.
The presumption is that we have done things well—not only
in price, but in quality, in design, and, in fact, in every way.
Our prices never exceed those of London when goods are
made by ourselves.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
Plain Figures'!
Cash. J
23 & 25 HUNTER STREET.
Exquisite Diamonds and Two
Whole Pearls, £2l.
Pearls and Australian Pink
Tourmalines, £B/8/-
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“Truthful James”: Tie was a big, sinister
spider in ambush behind his guy-ropes, and the bull-
ant which I legged up to the nest was specially
selected for his apparent ferocity. The spider slid
down a rope with the intention of massacring the
invader, and was met with a series of stings, rips,
stabs and general profanity. Two rounds found the
yellow streak in the big crawler, and he climbed to a
place of safety, from which he surveyed the ruins
with the only eye he had left. I removed the ant
as he was in- the act of wrecking the last piece of
furniture in the place.
NO USE AT PRESENT
HENRY: “ Would you like a flyin' machine,
Danny?”
DANIEL: “ Not till they're buildin' Elephants
and Castles in the air, ’Enery."
“Moon”: “Sappliira Smith” (B. 25/5/’ll)
is wrong in attributing the recent fatal bathing
accidents up North to the ‘‘Portuguese Man-o’-
war’s” sting. They were both caused by a small,
almost transparent blubber or jelly-fish, armed with
a thread-like attachment, somewhat similar to the
Dago naval fish. I have been introduced to both
species, and can give an assurance that the “shake”
of the “Port’gee” is a mere matter of detail to that
of the other gent. The only relief I know is
bathing the afflicted part in fresh water. But I
hadn’t time to do that. I leaped ashore, ran a
mile in 1.35, looped the loop, and turned 14 double
somersaults, besides dancing a haka and the greater
portion of a banzai.
MANNERS AND CUSTOMS.
ETHNOLOGIST : “ What you do if one of your tribe gets bitten by a snake, Mary?"
MARY (promptly): “ Bury him, boss."
“Jacky Barbwire”: Let the cove who re-
cently rang up for a remedy to prevent flies attack-
ing the injured leg of a horse procure a washing-
blue bag, and with a little warm water paint the
leg blue. It will neither blister nor irritate, and is
perfectly safe to use at any time.
“W.C.M.” : When I came down the Lachlan
I was practically a new chum to the bush; and my
first engagement was to look after a small settle-
ment lease some 20 miles or so from Booligal. Out
there it is all plain country, and that year the wea-
ther was very hot. One day I had been out as usual
and had neglected to put
on a sun-veil. I suppose
I must have been
“touched,” as I suddenly
became dizzy, and it was
all I could do to sit on
my horse and get back to
the hut. The heat did not
diminish any at night,
and I couldn’t sleep; all
I could do was to drink
water, and listen to the
chiming of the clock. The
next night was worse;
the hut seemed full of
little devils. And all the
time that cursed clock was
tickling away remorseless-
ly, till the sound worked
holes through and through
my brain. In the morning
I went out, chiefly to get
away from the sound of
that clock, caught my
mare, and went down the
paddock. But even then
I couldn’t escape it. The
hoofbeats were sounding
“ticktick-ticktick”; and
right between the mare’s
ears sat a little grinning
devil, with the face of a
clock, and he was yelling,
“Ticktick - ticktick.” I
made a cut at him with
my whip, and the mare,
startled, flew off at full
gallop. They found me
that evening at the far-
thest end of the run, run-
ning round and round in
a circle, and shouting
“ticktick - ticktick.” I
came to my senses a
month later, in the hos-
pital at Hay, but it was
12 months before my
nerves were sound again,
and even now the ticking
of a clock makes me want
to pull it inside out, and
stamp on each tick sep-
arately.
“Flin'derino”: Some Binghis use their
hair as carry-alls. Took an inventory of one head-
piece the other day back o’ Cairns. Result: Four
nails, piece of red ochre, old pipe, several matches,
piece of ’bacea, some pins, piece of fencing-wire,
string and a pocket knife.
“Kodak” : The narrow track of Johnson’s
hurricane is still visible in the scrub at the back of
Kelly’s Family Hotel at Windy Plains. Johnson
didn’t own the hurricane; he didn’t even discover
it. He merely happened to be in it between two
sheets of galvanised iron which he was bringing over
from Anderson’s. After trying to balance them on
his head, he borrowed a punch'and hammer and a
few lengths of binder twine, and wore them fore and
aft. The hurricane must have overtaken him when
he was half-way down the long four-mile slope. He
was first sighted by an astonished ploughman run-
ning before the gale. His hat was gone, his eyes
were bulging, and his legs and arms were working
like the piston-rods of a racing locomotive. He
was probably doing about 25 miles an hour at the
time, but he didn’t appear to be satisfied. The
storm was only about 50 yards wide, and, as there
were no trees about, the dazed ploughman didn’t
realise that Johnson was not doing it of his own ac-
cord. “ What’s the hurry?” he’yelled; but John-
son just blew by and headed straight for town.
“Mad as a rabbit!” grumbled the stolid ploughman,
and started his team again. The cyclone mean-
while swept Johnson straight through the main
street without touching the verandahs, blew him
through the belt of scrub, and brought him round
in a wide circle, levelling fences and all manner of
obstacles before his bruised and flying feet. Now
it so chanced that on the return journey it whirled
him right back to the stolid ploughman. When
the turner of the soil heard the rattle of the ap-
proaching Johnson, he flung down his lines and ran
towards the fence, waving his arms excitedly. “Get
outer this!” he yelled. “I gotter young horse here
and” — Stupefied, he saw a section of the post-and-
rail fence disintegrate before the man of iron, and
strew itself in its path. Next instant Johnson fled
through the gap, and, charging straight down on the
standing team, capsized it and the plough, and fell
with a final crash on top of the heap. The narrow-
waisted storm rushed on—through the opposite
fence. After a thoughtful interval, the ploughman
• —-himself an amateur ped—disentangled Johnson
from the waving hoofs and reins, got the team to
its feet, and started to bring the runner round with
cold tea. When Johnson at last opened his eyes,
he said resentfully, “Why didn’t yer tell us you was
goin’ to do it, and I would ’ave timed yer?”
* * • •
“Kuru”: I notice some Abo. writers put
beri-beri down to rice. Well, there is beri-beri here
on Kuru Hills (Papua), though the natives never saw
rice until I came to live amongst them only a few
months ago. The first of the food I gave them they
started to eat raw. Their beri-beri attacks them
from the ankle, and gradually goes up towards the
knee. The flesh is like a lump of dough ; if pressed
a dent will remain in it. My theory is that bad
water and too much vegetable food are the cause.
* * * *
“Jeroi”: My advice to farmers who have
their maize rooted out by ’roo rats just after plant-
ing is to use Stockholm tar. Sixpence worth will
do about seven or eight bushels of grain. To use,
pour the tar on the grain, and mix well with the
fingers. After the maize has been tarred, mix in
dry ashes or sand ; this dries the tar and prevents the
grain hanging together; also it makes it cleaner to
handle. The tar, which can be removed from the
hands with a small quantity of kerosene, does not
affect germination.
A BALLAD OF THE BIRTHRATE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Of course it is quite possible you never heard the
tale
Of Gertie Smith and Bertie Jones, and how they
came to fail;
It is a rather commonplace, though interesting,
story
Containing but the smallest trace of Love, Ro-
mance and Glory.
Well, Gertie was a schoolgirl, and her life had
been serene,
Until the year we meet her, when her age was
seventeen ;
Her parents were not wealthy, for their family
was large,
And nowadays a family entails a heavy charge.
Young Bertie Jones was twenty-one, a full-fledged
city clerk,
And life to him, of course, appeared a never-ending
lark;
While solemn youths were saving hard and putting
money by ’em,
Young Bertie joined the giddy throng who’s
motto’s Carpe diem!
Ilis weekly salary, which might have been a
pound or less,
He squandered in most wasteful and ridiculous ex-
cess ;
He wore expensive clothing; he raced; he made
small bets;
He smoked, I shouldn’t like to say, how many
cigarettes I
The merchant who employed him, Joseph Jedediah
Bloggs,
Was absolutely certain he was going to the dogs;
The' other clerks were different (or seemed so) in
their ways,
Being Christian Endeavorers or staunch Y.M.C.A.’s!
Still, Bertie, late or early home, could always ilo
his work;
His head was quick; his hand was neat; he never
tried to shirk ;
Sometimes he’d graft on Sundays to push Bloggs’s
business through—
A thing, of course, the other clerks would never,
never do 1
Now, Gertie Smith was just, the sort of girl you’d
like to teach;
Plump, pretty, and intelligent—in fact, a perfect
peach!
She wouldn't tackle housework, nor for cooking did
she care,
But, oh! she had such saucy ways, and' such a tak-
ing air!
On leaving school she told her Pa—who listened
with a sneer —
That she’d “decided to adopt a business career.”
Her coarse, prosaic parent scoffed: “Ha ! Ha ! ” he .
said ; “Ho I Ho !
You’d better stay at home, me girl, and learn to
cook and sew ! ”
Ignoring such ridiculous, impossible advice,
The fair, ambitious, maiden sought for something
“really nice”:
She wouldn’t take a “common” place, she’d quite
made up her mind ;
It had to be “professional,” and thoroughly “re-
fined.”
She couldn’t be a waitress, and she wouldn’t be a
nurse;
The drapers’ trade seemed vulgar-—and the drapers
rather worse!
A factory was very low, and full of noise and
reek,
So she became a lady clerk at half a crown per
week.
Her coarse, prosaic Pa guffawed: she couldn’t live
on that!
Refinement was no use as food, it wouldn’t make
her fat!
But Gertie just ignored the gibe and went upon
her way;
She lived at home, you know, and Pa had all the
bills to pay.
In office Gertie felt quite sure that she was seeing
Life;
She even dreamed she might become her boss’s
second wife!
But waiting was a weary game; her boss’s • wife was
grim
And very ■ tough—the sort of stuff, it seemed, to
outlast him !
Meantime, young Bertie Jones pursued his repre-
hensive course;
He always kissed the fastest girl and backed the
slowest horse;
He grew a dreadful cynic, said that Love was all
a myth,
Romance a fraud; and then one day he met fair
Gertie Smith'!
They met. ’Twas in a tram—the noisy things run ■
everywhere,
And horrid men go round on them and ask yovr for
a fare.
Of course, it’s all ridiculous, but, still, they make
you pay,
And if you don’t, they have you up, and fine you
straightaway!
Some-ladies carefully - ignore the raucous “cries “of
“Fare I”.
They gaze with hauteur, or assume a mild, abstracted
air ; , ..
Or talk in animated tones, while in their hearts they
say:
““You really are extremely rude—now kindly go
away!”
And thus it was with Gertie, for she knew she hadn’t
" paid,
And when the guard came round she felt most hor-
ribly - afraid;
She leaned across, familiarly, and smiled in Bertie’s
face —
For he was sitting opposite—and asked: “Have you
found Grace?”
The bluff “came off,” and Gertie never paid a fare
that trip,
While from that day the two began a long acquaint-
anceship,
Which ripened into something more—in fact, for but
one thing
This ballad might have ended with the usual gold
ring.
The trips, the sweets, the theatres, the suppers, and
the rest
Occasioned the enamored youth much tightness of the
chest;
Economy in cigarettes, abstention from the races,
Could not provide the cash he spent in gaining her
good graces!
Yet, even then, to make ends meet poor Bertie would
have tried,
And borne her off triumphantly to be his blushing
V*ride,
But that he found, or else was told, or read it in
a book—
That Gertie couldn’t make a bed, or wash, or sew,
or cook !
“Farewell!” he shrieked. “Farewell, expensive girl
I loved the best!
You cannot grill your Bertie’s chop, or darn your
Bertie’s vest!”
lie rushed away without his hat, the picture of
despair—
But Bertie struck it rich out West; he’s now a mil-
lionaire 1
And twenty: years have flown since then, but Gertie
is unclaimed,
And all she has of Bertie is his photo., nicely framed.
Stay! No! I’m wrong; there’s one small point
which now m3' memory jogs—
She’s also got his billet, at a pound a week, with
Bloggsl
A Moral? Yes; there is one, and, as far as I can see,
It has to do with Marriage, and with sordid £ s. d.,
With men who can’t get billets, and a birthrate
that’s declined,
And lady clerks who are no use-—except that they’re
Keflned I
N.S.W.
O. C. CABOT.


M'
Carters
Kittle •
IVER
PILLS
Constipation
Vanishes For Ever
Prompt Relief Permanent Cure.
CARTER’S LITTLE LIVER PILLS
never fail. Purely vegetable—act
surely but gently on the liver. Stop
after-dinner distresp— cure indigestion
—improve the complexion—brighten
the eyes.
Small Pill, Small Dose, Small Price.
GENUINE must bear Signature
A.N.A, Secretary writes:
“ It is astonishing how little
we know of our own in-
dustries. I shall always use
CALDWELL’S INKS in future.”
PLASMON OATS
Scotland’s Best —“ Enormously increased
in food value by the addition of Plasmon.’**
4 Minutes Boiling only. — Lancet.
PLASMON is used by the ROYAL FAMILY
Australian Depot: 5& 7, Barrack 8t„ Sydney,
The Royal Hotel,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Most centrally situated Hotel in Sydney.
Best place to lunch and dine in town.
J. W. COCKBAINE, Proprietor.
“Cat Head” : The numerous missionary of
the Pacific Islands—l know the Solomons and New
Hebrides best —-would afford interesting study to the
Sunday-school kid who is made to part up his pre-
cious halfpenny to reform the simple savage or to
buy him slop clothes, which get wet and kill him.
The poor “ko iko” seldom steals —until the half-
penny helps to “reform” him. There is the “good
fellow” missionary with always a square meal or
something warm for the battler who lands his stores
through a heavy surf per nigger and language. (The
nigger is weak and scarce; the language strong and
plentiful.) Good luck to him. But he is few.
Then there is our old friend the Wowser —he who
would rather travel round the islands for a month
than land at his station on the Sawbatli. For a fact,
I’ve met him. We have also the “mish” who has
backslid and become a trader pure and simple. From
whom did his “call” come? There may be a few
who both “mish” and trade, but the most self-sacri-
ficing of the lot is he who acts as agent between Black
Brother and the steamer, and takes nothing for it.
No, not five per shent. Not much more, anyway.
Many years ago there was a good man in the islands.
The poor fellow’s wife died. He, being poor, called
on the flock to subsidise £5O for a tombstone. The
flock, being faithful, and having loved her well,
anted up. The good man must want a nice stone,
as he has been many, many years choosing it.
* * * *
“Quan”: At a recent meeting of the Bris-
bane Field Naturalists’ Club, Government Entomolo-
gist Tryon stated that the so-called shower of
prawns at Buderim Mountain (Q.) —mention of
it was made in The Bulletin (11/s’/ll) —was,
in his opinion, not a shower at all, and that the
alleged prawns were not prawns, but belonged to
the Isopoda, which are generally found along the
sea-shore under sea-weed. lie thought the animals
were crossing the road and were killed by unusual
cold.
“Phil M. Upmiss”: I’m in for this snake
cake-competition, and nominate the swamp country
in the New England (N.S.W.) district. Some
time ago, on Tia River Station, a gang of fencers
ran a line across a swamp one-quarter of a mile
wide, and during the process killed 29 full-grown
black snakes, and missed as many more in the
grass. The swamp was alive with them. Also, I
know of two school-teachers who went snake-shoot-
ing along the banks of the same river, and their
bag for a morning’s sport was 36 snakes, the
majority of them tigers.
GIVING HIM THE LOT AT ONCE.
HOOP IRON MICK (in from the burr-cutters'
camp for Sunday dinner, to “ lady help"
who has put a plentiful supply of apple
sauce over his pork): “ ’Ere! Bli'me!!
’Ere!!! Watcher mean mixin' me pudden
with me meat?"
“Tindog”: The request of the S. Aus.
branch of the Geographical Society that all available
evidence relating to the possible fate of Leichhardt
in 1848 should be collected while aborigines who
were about then are still living, reminds me that a
man named Sachse, who explored the Daly River
(N.T.) in 1880 for Fisher and Lyons, told me that
the natives were using tomahawks made out of a tyre
of a cart belonging to “white man blackfellow
killed long time ago.”
DRIVEN BACK ON TINNED STUPE.
SUNDAY-SCHOOL TEACHER: “ Why did the Apostles receive the gift of tongues?"
OUTBACK SELECTOR'S SON: Cause they'd run out of killing-sheep."
“S. Snell”: Some little time back a Mel-
bourne athlete, who has grown rather more than
middle-aged in the service, took it upon himself
to interfere with the amours of a notorious “sports-
man,” with the result that the latter called in a
somewhat discolored pug, with a reputation of a
kind, and, displaying a cheque that made the
slugger’s eyes bulge,, said: “Maybe you’d like that?
Well, it’s yours when you show me Blank looking
as if a house had fallen
o n him. Three days
passed, and the smudgy
pug rang the sport up in
his club. “Say, you got
that cheque in your
clothes?” he said. “Well,
come see fer yerself.” He
met the sport, led him
into Bourke-street, and
pointed Blank out to him.
Blank was leaning against
a pub front, with the
melancholy expression of
a man who has tried to
bite a running locomotive.
He had a crutch, one arm
was in a sling, and there
were plans of suburban
lots in sticking-plaster all
over his dejected face.
The half-tone pugilist re-
ceived the cheque, Blank
washed off his injuries in
the nearest pub lavatory,
and the bright pair cut
jp the bribe between
vhem.
“Walkabout”: Different niggers “make
rain” different ways. Mate and self were camped
on the Ord River (W.A.) during a very dry spell.
A party of bucks, headed by the “Bullyah man”
(native doctor) came along and volunteered the in-
formation that it was “plurry hot, close up die.”
There was some indication of rain, but the bucks
wouldn’t admit it, and the “Bullyah man” offered
to “make rain” for, “plenty pfeller tucker.”
We agreed, and he started the performance. He
went to a pool in the river, and, after filling him-
self to bursting point, “spouted” like a whale.
After keeping this up for about 10 minutes, he
said: “That pfeller aw-right, come on dreokly.”
And it did. It rained for five days, and things
were getting serious;, so we offered to double the
tucker if the “Bullyah man” would stop the rain.
He took it on, but, after nearly drowning himself,
gave it up, with the explanation that there was
a “big pfeller ‘Bullyah man’ up river, got-em
plenty bubber (water) and me can’t pinish ’im.” I’m
going to hunt up that big pfeller nigger next dry
spell.
“Shovel” : Talking about queer habits in
horses. On the Mount William estate, near Wil-
laura (Vic.), is a sheep paddock, through which runs
a creek. In order to utilise the whole enclosure, the
wool-gathering inhabitants used to be periodically
driven over the creek at the only crossable place,
and for years one particular horse was ridden during
the operation. For some considerable time past,
however, the prad has been an old-age pensioner in
the paddock, but he has not forgotten his customary
work; and every few days he rounds up the mob,
sheep-dog fashion, and drives them to the ford, where
he stands watching until the last jumbuck has leaped
across. That being safely accomplished, he goes on
collecting his pension.
A writer in 1820 referred to the illuminations at
the Coronation of George IV. as “a fairyland of
lights, recalling the Arabian nights.” He must
have exaggerated since tallow dips and wax candles
were the common illuminants then. Coal gas was
still considered weird and mysterious and no such
conveniences existed as acetylene, electricity, petrol
air gas, or inverted mantles. To-day, however, with
George V. enthroned and inventors active, these
illuminants and more, shed light. Phillips Ormonde,
patent attorneys, 266 Flinders St., Melbourne.*
“Ironlmrk” : Where did “Pick” (B. 8/6/’ll),
who refers to “Condamine’s” horse as his “turkey,”
acquire his bush slang? Have heard the term “tur-
key” applied to a “swag,” but never before to a
horse. In the widely known but unprintable yarn of
the “Flash Shearer,” the latter, when remonstrated
with by the boss for rough shearing, unbosoms him-
self to the following effect: “‘Hal right,’ says I;
closes the ‘tongs,’ ’ops the ’urdle, goes to the ’ut,
packs my ‘turkey,’ straddles my (blanky) ‘alligator,’
and”—wild Judkinses wouldn’t drag the rest out of
me.
* * * *
“Salt Beef and Spuds” : The white ant, if
he happens to have a nasty taste in his mouth, will
go for any of the Richmond River (N.S.W.) woods,
worked up or not, and bloodwood and stringybark are
not long-lasting. If the ants didn’t touch “Jeroi’s”
bloodwood fence (B. 11/5/’lI), it was simply be-
cause they found something more tasty. As for being
fire-resisting, bloodwood and stringybark are not in
it when rosewood is about. Scrub-box is like the
average Liberal politician—unreliable. Have known a
fence made of this timber to go rotten, through the
ant, in a few months ; so my tip is to stand off box
for fencing. Does “Jeroi,” or any other timber-
man, know anything about teak as a fencing-wood ?
“E.H.P.: “Billanine’s” par re speed of
kangaroos (B. 8/6/’II) merely mentions an exercise
canter for the hoppers. When the train leaves Prairie
(N.Q.) it has a nice down-hill run of about 30 miles
into Ilughenden. The pace on this jaunt frequently
touches 50 miles per hour. I have frequently seen
startled ’roos pace it alongside the train, and then,
through force of habit, dash ahead and bound across
the line ahead of the engine, taking both fences in
their, stride. I have seen them do it in drought
time, too, when they were in anything but show con-
dition.
* * * *
“A.W.A.” concerning an unpopular engi-
neer :
The large species of white ant which attacks
houses has peculiarities that place him at the top of
the ant scale in point of intelligence. In his attack
upon a house his presence is entirely unsuspected
until the timber is broken or sawn; but to carry
out his operations he must keep an uninterrupted
communication with mother earth. Once this is
interfered with he succumbs. There are two di-
visions of him —one, with heavy mandibles, to do
all the face work, tunnelling and rising; the other
a lighter type to clear out the drives and remove
the mullock. The ant with the boring implements
is charged with a corrosive acid of strong properties,
which he squirts into the working face, and the im-
mediate softening effect permits him to burrow into
the hardest of timber without difficulty. It is with
the assistance of this acid that he manages to
negotiate the iron capping on house blocks when the
capping has been pierced by a nail.
“K.P.” sees snakes also: —
I was on a surveying job near Pennant Hills
(N.S.W.), when I came across a lizard wagging its
tail vigorously. Never having seen a lizard wag its
tail like that before, I made inquiries, and saw a
snake about 3 ft. away with its eyes fixed on the
lizard. I threw a stone and attracted the snake’s at-
tention. He took his eyes off the lizard, and as soon
as he did so the lizard streaked for home and mother.
The snake had completely T charmed the lizard, and
had him at his mercy. Have also seen snakes charm
birds in the same way, and as soon as I have inter-
fered and the snake has raised his eyes, the birds
have got off the premises in a hurry. Once saw a
snake getting into a hole, and chopped it in halves.
When I came back later on, the fore part had backed
on to the tail-shaft, and the two pieces were trying
to join each other together. Has any sober Aboliar
ever seen a pure yellow snake? I have only seen orie,
and would like to know the name of the party he
belonged to.
“Yalgun”: “Walkabout” need not have
confined his remarks (B. 18/5’11) concerning the
Asiatic worker and trader to the Westralian gold-
fields. Does he know any mining township in the
Commonwealth that has not an unreasonable share
of the curse? I can say for N. S. Wales that West
Maitland is full of Chinese storekeepers; that
at least 30 per cent, of the storekeepers in 1! illgrove
are Chinese or Japanese; that Wyalong has six or
seven Chow grocers; and that at Wollombi, in the
Armidale district, an Asiatic blacksmith plied his
trade to the detriment of a white man. At Hill-
grove a Chink takum photoglaf nice girl at ss. a
dozen. In the agricultural towns very little sup-
port is given to Stin Koh, but in towns where the
mining people mostly congregate he is encouraged
and given preference.
* * * *
“Pick”: It seems to me that some local-
ities hold a monopoly of freaks. At Waterloo, on
the Monaro (N.S.W.), I have seen a white soldier
bird, a white rosella parrot, two white magpies, a
white swallow and a crow with one white wing.
Also a clutch of young plovers with undeveloped
wings. And I know that in the Waterloo bush enough
white ’possum skins were obtained to make a rug
for which the owner refused 50 guineas. The per-
sons who offered and refused the guineas may be
counted in with the other freaks.
* * < *
“Jumbuck” : Talking shearing tallies, ever
hear of a case in which, in a big shed, every man
shore the same number in one day ? I didn’t believe
it possible, and made a bet that the boss couldn’t
bring proof. He convinced me, and I paid. (P.S. —
The “woollies” were wet, and all hands knocked oil'
at one apiece.)
* » * »
“Kiwai”: On the islands up top of Aus-
tralia, British and Dutch, “misconduct” is mostly
punishable, if the misconducting party is married.
I was at a “Court” the other day. The magistrate
was more or less colored—mostly more. It was a
“misconduct” case. In the middle of the evidence
the magistrate asked me “What white man’s law
along this?” I told him, “Make them eat a bar of
soap.” Having no soap, he sentenced the man to
hoe up his Camilla patch and the woman to keep her
head half shaved for a month.
* * * #
“Saladin”: “Nifty” (B. 18/5/T1) boasts
that Mrs. Stephen Wilks could “inveigle a pint of
scathing whisky out of a knuckle of red gum.” In
the Westralian timber camps I have seen a “bum-
boat” (beer cart) arrive with a load of liquor, sell
out, gather up the empty bottles, disappear for a
few hours into the scrub, and return with bottles re-
filled and everything ready for a fresh start, though
there are neither breweries nor bottling works within
70 miles. Can’t say what this particular poison is
inveigled from, but I’ll back it to have more jag to
the liquid inch than anything else in the business.
* # * *
“Yers,” said the old drover reflectively;
“them two dorgs is the most intelligent I ever ’eard
of. Me and them was drivin’ about 500 ’ead one day
and when we was about 10 mile from ther township
I rides on, bein’ a bit dry and ’avin’ confidence that
them dorgs would bring the mob along. After some
time in the pub I got uneasy, seeing no sign of them ;
so I turns back and sees them all standing still.
‘ ’Ullo,’ I says; ‘there’s some strays among ’em.’
An’ the dorgs ’ad the intelligence to know it too;
for blest if one of them wasn’t standin’ on the
back of the other try in’ to read the brand of a young
heifer.”
# * * *
“Square Axe”: Just a small experience
that may be poked into the venomous snake contro-
versy. Had a horse which was bitten on the nose by
a green tree-snake (billed as non-venomous), while
poking his head in among some passion-fruit vines.
The moke died 17 hours after. Had a cat bitten on
the leg by a similar reptile, and it showed no other
effects than a badly-swollen limb. No good asking
me to account for these things; might as well ask
me whether barmaids swallow their young. I don’t
know.
THE OPTIMIST.
JENKINS (suffering with toothache): “Ever
had a tooth palled, Bill?"
Bill (trying to be cheering): “Hundreds of
'em, my boy, hundreds of 'em!"
THE SKIRT THAT FAILED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I looked across the middle fence,
And saw my neighbor Green ;
He wore a costume weird, immense,
The quaintest I had seen.
His trousers, of a pinkish glow,
AVere tight above and loose below.
“My friend,” said I, “you’re dressed too much.
What are these pants you keep—
Turk, Afghan, Chow, or Double Dutch?”
He bleated like a sheep,
And I beheld with sad surprise
That tears were clogging both his eyes.
“This is,” he answered with a sniff,
“The ‘harem’ Mary bought.
She hasn’t yet decided if
She oughtn’t or she ought.
Meanwhile I wear it—not for show,
. But just to break it in, you know!”
VICTORIA.
SILAS SNELL.


THE CBOWH-AND THE CROSS.
In one way and another, it is computed that £20,000,000 will be spent in connection with the Coronation .-Recent News Item
After 60 years of Freetrade, it is estimated that one-third of the people of Britain live on the verge of starvation .-Another News Item.


GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
WORLD-FAMED
For
QUALITY,
HATS.
For
DURABILITY.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Found in the Torrens Lake, Adelaide,
after odd portions of his clothing had been
picked up on a neighboring bridge, John
Weatherall, an old identity, owner of race-
horses and other delusions, and at one time
a bookmaker.
Frank confession of John Darling, of the
“honorable understanding,” at the conclusion
of his evidence before the Border Railways
Commission: —
If there is anything I can do for the country with-
out affecting my own pocket, I will be only too
pleased, but I am not a philanthropist.
Nor a patriot either, apparently.
“0.K.”: Vic. Governor Fuller, speaking
of his wife as “ber Ladyshin ” committed
something of an absurdity as well as an in-
discretion. From a strictly “classy” point
of view, Sir Fuller’s spouse is not “her Lady-
ship” any more than he is “his Lordship.”
I f we are to play with titles, let us, by all
I hat’s etiquettical, play the strict game.
As a good Bible Christian, S.A.’s Chief
Justice Way suffers many things with Job-
an resignation. The other day when a
brilliant but wordy K.C., in an opening ad-
dress, mentioned a case which occurred in
the days of Julius Caesar, Anderson, another
K.C., irritably interjected that time was too
short to go back to Roman history. “Mr.
Anderson,” said Way, “let us be thankful
that he doesn’t open with the Creation.”
Tom L. Johnson, the just-dead U.S. Sena-
tor, was one of the little group of members
who tricked the Congress Hansard into
printing the whole of George’s “Progress
and Poverty.” The rules allow members to
hand in statistical and other matter, which
they needn’t utter. All they have to do is
to get formal “leave to print.” An unsus-
pecting Senate gave the necessary leave, and
when Hansard was printed the whole Henry
George treatise was printed too —nominally
as extracts —and scattered by post all over
the U.S.
ANOTHER CALAMITY.
THE ABSENTEE LANDLORD: "How. dare you
hit an absentee! I shall leave you at
once ! ”
AUSTRALIA (with the long arm): " Thanks ,
old chap—and please don't step on the
people coming in. ”
Prof. E. E. Morris, once head of the Mel-
bourne Grammar School, and later Prof. _of
English Literature in the. Melb. Uni., died
nine years ago, whereupon it was proposed to
publish as a memorial a life of Captain Cook
on whicn he had been engaged for some
years. About £4O was raised for the pur-
pose, but that w r as not enough. Another dif-
ficulty was the death of Alexander Suther-
land, who was to have edited the* book. How-
ever, the £4O was retained by the promoters
of the memorial, and it is now proposed to
use it as the nucleus of a Morris prize for
the study of English literature in the Univer-
sity.
Dr. Peter Lalor, a grandson of Peter of Eu-
reka, has been anpointed first Medical Offi-
cer of the Military College at the Federal
capital. The doctor is a Melbourne gradu-
ate.
When Sydney achieved municipal govern-
ment, 69 years ago, the idea was that the
town clerk simply must be a lawyer; so all
five applicants were gents, one. The election
ran out this way: C. 11. Chambers 17 votes,
J. K. Carr 31, George Robert Nichols 8, E.
D. O’Reilly 5, W. H. Moore 3. Chambers,
who was the father of Lucy Chambers, a
famous contralto of 40 years ago, held office
only eight months, when he resigned. He
was succeeded by John Rae, a keen Scot, and
a most versatile man, who subsequently be-
came Commissioner of Railways.
Jim Beckett, the seasoned roundsman of
the Age, steps off the Inky Way to be a
protector of Northern Territory aborigines,
sooty brethren whom he knew .well in years
gone by. During Beckett’s time as a re-
corder of blood and fire for Syme, he put at
least half a dozen Argus roundsmen through
their training, but wouldn't himself forsake
the romances of gore and burglary for the
dull scratching of shorthand in a Parlia-
mentary gallery.
Maoriland’s revenue is expected to benefit
to the tune of some £20,000 by the death of
1). L. Murdoch, one time head of the B.N.Z.
In 1863, when the hank was only three
years old, he went over from the Bank of
N.S.W. to he inspector of the bantling. For
25 years he was manager and inspector, and
lie helped to found the Loan and Mercantile
Co., and the N.Z. and River Plate Co. He
got out of the bank well ahead of the
later disasters; he had probably seen the
rocks ahead.
The daily papers,, which occasionally kill
a man, sometimes do worse, and make a
knight of him. They did it the other even-
ing' to J. M. Joshua; it was alleged that
Royalty had blown a certificate, so to speak,
on ' the pioneer Australian distiller’s whisky
bottle. But, of course, British royalty
doesn’t do anything so absurd as encourage
a mere colonial manufacturer, and when the
cabled list was overhauled over-night Joshua
was robbed of his title, and the bauble was
given to Joshua Williams, an old gentle-
man who dispenses law in the Maoriland
Supreme Court.
Robert Harrison, who passed out at
South Melbourne the other day at the age
of four-score-and-three, was a colleague of
S. Australia’s ex-Justice and many times
Premier, J. P. Boucaut. The two studied for
the Bar together. On returning to the Cold
Country from South Aus. in 3862, Harrison
published “Colonial Sketches ; or Ten Years
in South Australia.” Somebody or other
subsequently made an attempt to buy up the
edition, with the result that only a few stray
copies are in print. The Melbourne Public
Library owns one of them.
Andrew Fisher and other Australian
Labor men in London for the Coronation
shied at gold braid, but elected to wear black
velvet coats with silver buttons, black
breeches, silk stockings, shoes with silver
buckles, and cocked hats. A sword went
with this outfit. A Court dress was compul-
sory, and the above lot was chosen as the
least objectionable mass of glad rags avail-
able. A subject for painful speculation is
provided by the sword. For the sake of the
credit and dignity of the Commonwealth, it
is hoped that Fisher, Batchelor and Pearce
didn’t get the swords between their legs often
enough to win for themselves special notori-
ety as the Australian trippers.
'Henry llowden, one
of Victoria’s manufac-
turing pioneers, died
at South Yarra a day
or two ago. He was
formerly a member of
the once well-known
firm of Rowden Bros.,
galvanisers and iron-
workers, which started
operations early in the
’so’s. The firm ex-
hibited at the 1866 ex-
hibition in Melbourne,
and gained a bonus of
£5O for a new indus-
try and a special
medal for introducing
into Australia the pro-
cess of galvanising. In
1887 he was in the
Windsor R a i 1 w ay
smash, and had his
spinal cord damaged.
Nevertheless, he lived
to be 83.
The name Thellusson, which has been
cropping up in Government House lists, re-
calls the banker Thellusson, whose quaint
will caused an alteration of the law with re-
gard to the accumulation of property. This
gentleman apparently determined that his re-
mote descendants should be multi-million-
aires, whatever happened to his immediate
descendants, for he directed the income
of his property to be accumulated
during the lives of three generations. Al-
though the testator kept strictly wdthin the
rules which allowed an “executory interest”
to extend over the period of any number of
existing lives, the absurdity of the will and
the injustice to the living generations were
seen to be so great that the British Parlia-
ment passed the Thellusson Act, which for-
bids a man to direct the accumulation of
income for any longer term than (1) his
own life and 21 years beyond, (2) during
the nonage of a person living or one eh
ventre sa mere at the time of his death. The
visiting Thellusson is a descendant of the
eccentric old banker.
Alfred Harcourt, who died at Manly
(N.S. vv.), on June 21, aged W, was an old
commercial identity of Sydney. In the mid
’so’s he was a member of the firm ot smith,
Peate and Co.. ,v rocery and wine merchants ,
later the firm became Peate and Harcourt.
who sold out to Harrison and Attwood. who
in turn sold to the Civil Service Co-opera-
tive Society. Before Smith, reate and
Co.’s day the business was run by its found-
er, Abraham Daw a Quaker, who had es-
tablished it in 1834.
SA RING THE EMPIRE.
1ST SUBURBANITE : "After the enthusiasm dis-
played at our celebrations , I feel no anxiety
for the future of the throne and Empire.
It was glorious!"
2ND DITTO : "Good, good! What form did
your celebrations take? ”
1ST DITTO: "We burnt a magnificent tar-
barrel.”
T. E. Hogarth, a partner, in the Strang-
ways Springs and Anna Creek Stations
( S.A.), has just put on the starched shirt
of the city after 39 years spent right at the
heart of the continent, lie began bullock-
driving at four or thereabouts, and was a
shepherd at Now he is 61, and this year
will shear about 50,000 sheep. 1 With his
partner, Hogarth was the pioneer of ar-
tesian wells in S. Australia.
The Maddens of Melbourne have scored
what seems to be an Australian record, in
having two live knights in the one brother-
hood. John Wexcellency Madden was K.B.’d
many years ago; now Frank, the member
for the Mace in ,the Vic. Assembly, lias been
elevated to the jeerage. Frank is really
famous for nothing save his bull-headed op-
position to the Tote, when Jack Murray—
the old Jack Murray—tried to get it legal-
ised. But he wears a tightly-buttoned frock
coat and a typical K.B. manner, and it
would really have been a w r aste of good
material to have let him escape knighthood.
Apropos Spiers and Pond. After their
success with the first English XI. specula-
tion, they offered Charles Dickens £lO,OOO,
over and above all his travelling expenses
and maintenance, for a 12 months’ reading-
tour through Australia. The friend through
whom the offer was made pressed upon
Dickens the advantages which would accrue
to his overwrought system from a perfect
rest of a six or eight weeks’ voyage,
and pointed out what a field for character-
study Australia would offer. But Dickens
could not be induced to accept. He was
doing too well in comfort at home, he said,
and threw in the remark that by a one-
night’s reading at St. George’s Hall, Liver-
pool, he had just netted £3OO. At a later
date Felix Spiers personally renewed the
offer, but still without success.
The other day George Forbes, a grandson
of the first Chief Justice of N. S. Wales,
presented the Mitchell Library with the;
trowel with which the original Forbes:
tapped the foundation stone of Sydney Col-
lege, now Sydney Grammar School. That
original Forbes, as mentioned just now, was
Chief Justice ; the son was a District Court
Judge; in the line of progression the grand-
son ought to be a police-magistrate, but
actually is a solicitor. The first Forbes had
hopes of large wealth for his family from
squatting, and the son who was afterwards
Judge, was put on to a big holding in the
North. Sheep, however, sold down to a
few pence when the crisis came in the ’4o’s,
and the younger Forbes, having been called
to the Bar in England, threw up squatting
to struggle at the law. A cousin, who didn’t
have a profession to fall back on, hung on
to the sheep and shuffled in among the dis-
gustingly Fat men when the tide turned
with the gold discoveries.
One of the yarns of Rochaix, the French
detective who has just retired from the
N.S.W. police department, after a quarter-
century spent in looking after New Cale-
donian escapees and others :
It was the first year I was at work. I had been
warned I would be killed; nevertheless, when four
strangers walked into the bar, I wasn’t watchful
enough to observe a whiff of a New Caledonian vege-
table-poison powder go into my glass. It is terrible
poison and instantaneous. But they gave me the
overdose; and when I went down, and they were
proceeding to finish me with the boot, the screams of
a woman brought help. I had not intended to fe- -
main detective, but that setttled it. As soon as, I
get well I say: “Now, after those fine fellows!”
Ha! I gather 12 of them, and send them where
they are sure of a warm welcome. I was on the
wharf — bori voyage —but I get no thanks. No, Only
one say, “Bete l When I come back——!” I under-
stand. But I am still not dead.
The Acting Mayor of Adelaide has received cable
advices from the Mayor (Alderman Cohen), stating
that the Colonial Office does not see its way to
grant to the city the distinction of having a Lord
Mayor.
Dead in Adelaide, at 80, William Hamil-
ton, station-owner, ship-owner* and mer
chant, and a Rood Seotch-AuStralian of 00
years’ standing. Incidentally, he was a di-
rector of two banks, a tramway and a steam
tag co., chairman of a copper-mine co., mem-
ber of the Marine Board, and father of Miss
Elsie Hamilton, the pianist now putting a
finish on her training in London and Paris.
“Smoke Drift,” in a morbid mood: —
This week I made a “pilgrimage,” on the anni-
versary of A. L. Gordon’s death, to the scene of the
poet’s'final tragedy at Middle Brighton. Dropped in
first at the Marine Hotel, where Gordon called at
7.30 a.m., to enquire fot the landlord, Prendergast
--who was not out of tied. That was the last seen of
the living Gordon. W. Pettefor Allen, who was out
looking for a cow, found the body shortly after-
wards. It is a long quarter of a mile from the
Marine to the beach, along. Park-street; but before
you get there you turn off into the ti-tree. Park-
street was then a heavy sandy track (it is metalled
now) ; and the laborious hoofing drove Allen into the
scrub. So the body was found. There hasn’t been
much change in the 41 years. There were three resi-
dents then ; there are only a dozen to-day. The
Marine pub still looks as though it had. been bodily
lifted out from an English country road. The ti-tree
remains undisturbed. And there among it I thought
of A. L. G.’s counsel:-—■
“Kindness in another’s trouble,
Courage in your own” —
and of how he had failed of his own philosopV-
But poetry would be a barren thing if consistenev o"
thought and action were demanded of every Milton,
great and small.
OUT OF THE
MOUTHS OF
LMPS.
SMALL GIRL : “ Will you please call out 'Fish
for me? ”
VISITOR (amazed): “But I never call out
‘ Fish) my dear."
SMALL GIRL (firmly): “Yes, you do. Father
says you’re always calling ‘ Stinking Fisk
at the club.”
R. Claude, tlie Maorilander who recently
stopped two careering trains on the main
trunk line from butting into each other and
murdering a large number of people, includ-
ing Governor Islington, has gone where the
onlv careering is done by the celestial lamp-
lighter. An attack of pleurisy following up :
on nervous shock brought his life to a full
stop at Auckland last week.
lou Ward’s baronetcy was expected, but
the Orders of the Hobbles conferred on At-
torney-General Findlay and Native Minister
Carroll came as a surprise. “Sir Timmi
Carroll” is the twin shock to “Sir Bill
Jones,” Agent-General. Ballance, Seddon,
W. P. Reeves, Hall-Jones and Carroll were
looked upon by M.L. Democrats as being
adamant to the title-monger; and only tn«
last two failed at the knee. What Findlay
has done to be knighted isn’t clear; probably
George Y. thought he deserved some conso-
lation for having to crawl out from Joe
Ward’s wreckage at the Imperial Confer-
ence.
A COUNCILLOR OF DUNDAS SHIRE.
Mr. Paul liable, of Moutajup, Vic., a Councillor
of Dundas Shire, tells here what Chamberlain’s
Cough Remedy has done; “I have been a constant
user of Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy for the past
15 years, and have always found it a most effective
cure. My child Paul suffered from a severe cold on
the chest, affecting his breathing and lungs. Know-
ing how good Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy was I
gave it at once, and am pleased to say my child was
cured after using just one half-bottle.”*
BETTER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I'!ie King who will have placed upon him to-day
<■ magnificent coronal diadem of the British Em-
is not a genius. He is very much better.
—Age.
No genius is George the King,
No Solomon or Solon;
lie soars upon no lofty wing,
His royal head’s not swollen.
He is not quite a Bonaparte,
And, speaking by the letter,
He’s not an Angelo in art —
But, mark you, he is better !
He’s just an ordinary bloke,
With commonplace ambitions,
Who bends to his domestic yoke,
And entertains no missions.
He’ll walk the way lie ought to go,
And wear the golden fetter,
While doing nothing; and, you know,
A king could not do better.
victoria.
SILAS.
Cohen, pale and worn with care,
Cabled to the Acting Mayor:
“1 in vain to London rushed,
s iat am 1 as pancake crushed ;
Crushed beneath official feet,
Lies our hope, so honeyed sweet —
Hope of posing as ‘Mv Lord,’
You at home and I abroad,
Though I talked till I felt ill,
‘Mister’ is our title still ;
It is very heard to bear!”
Cohen wired the Acting Mayor.
“Why should Sydney, Melbourne too,
Have its Lord, whilst I and you
Wend our ways towards the grave
Sans the honor that we crave?
In his gown and chain - arrayed,
Mayor of Holy Adelaide,
Should a Cohen be ignored
AVhen he claims the rank of Lord ?
Why should we, I’d like to know,
Linger in the second row?
Surely they this gift could spare!”
Cohen wired the Acting Mayor.
Echo answers—“ Why, indeed,
Should these men of mayoral breed
Writhe in disappointment sore,
•Now, henceforth, and evermore?
Why is false distinction made,
’Twixt Melbourne, say, and Adelaide?
Let all the mayors in sweet aoeor I
Assume the lovely name of Lord —
Lord Mayor of That, Lord Mayor of T’. i-,
Let all the lot-enjoy the bliss —
The. ‘rank’ that these two pant to wear
Good Cohen arid the Acting Mayor.”
VICTOHIA.
O.K.


■ fr
§
i
pH
it
m
§g
SI
i#
-j.
H
H
GOWI NGS’ SALE.
EVERYTHING REDUCED FROM 10 PER CENT., or 2/- IN THE £.
THE AUSTRAL SUIT. Fit and Finish Guaranteed.
Usual Prices —63/-, 7of-, 75 J-, Machine
Sale Prices —56/9, 63/-, 67/6, Machine
Made; 84-, 90J-, 95and 105/-, Hand Made.
Made; 75 6, 81 /-, 85/6 and 94/6, Hand Made.
COWING BROS.
486, 488 and 490 George Street; and 7,9, 11,
13, 15 and 17 Royal Arcade, Sydney.
.All orders Carriage Paid, as usual; Patterns Post Free on request, also our General Catalogue of 120 Pages of Men’s and Boys’ Wean


WORTHINGTON PUMPS General Service
Boiler Feeding, Mining, Marine, Irrigation, Hydraulic, Water Works, etc.
For CATALOGUES and
INFORMATION apply
32 8 34 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
PERKS, DANE & CO. PTY. LTD.
MELBOURNE
and SYDNEY.
<«
P.D.” Grease & "P.D.” Yarn
90 per cent, cheaper than any other system of lubrication.
FULL PARTICULARS ON APPLICATION.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
During the current outbreak of Imperial-
ism in England, various papers and people lectured
the visiting Premiers on the tremendous things “the
Mother Country” had done for “the colonies.” Ex-
Victorian G. D. Meudell stood it for a while; then
he broke out in the Financial Times: “The Empire
beyond the seas has poured gold into London and
made London the world’s money centre. With Aus-
tralia’s £600,000,000 of gold since 1852 and South
Africa’s £300,000,000 in recent years, London has
built the high superstructure of credit which enables
her to lend nearly £1,200,000,000 to her colonies alone,
excluding India. Without the gold from Australia
and South Africa, would London have been able to
hold her colonies, and, incidentally, all new countries
in pawn for debts or for goods? This is a point
always overlooked in such discussions. Australian
gold made British credit and commerce.” First of
all, Australia bought goods from J. Bull, and paid
for them in gold and other things it was producing.
Then it borrowed large sums for public and private
purposes; also large sums of money were “invested
in Australia.” But, notwithstanding these borrow-
ings and investments, Australia didn’t get its gold
hack again. It simply got goods. Coghlan showed
that very clearly in his “Wealth and Progress”
(1900-1) : “Money has been freely poured into N. S.
Wales, especially bv British investors. During the
30 years, from 1871 to 1900, the sum of
£109,494,000 was invested in the State. Of this
large sum, £50,665,000, or nearly one-half, repre-
sented the proceeds of loans obtained by the Govern-
ment and local government bodies. . . . The total
sum mentioned did not, it should be understood,
actually reach the State. .. . Including capital
withdrawn from investment, the total of the pay-
ments made during the 30 years referred to may be
set down at £110,982,000; so that there was ac-
tually no transfer of capital to the State in spite of
the large present indebtedness.”
But though we didn’t get gold when we bor-
rowed, and don’t get gold now when we borrow, we
pay a large proportion of our interest in gold.
Knibbs’ “Official Year Book” shows the Common-
wealth’s imports and exports of gold (specie and
bullion) for five years:—
Imports. Exports.
1905 .. .. £1,477.530 £10,955,993
1906 .. .. 2,147.853 16,871.285
1907 .. .. 1,436,794 10.543,304
1908 .. .. 965,001 13,566,738
1909 .. .. 1,011,450 8,373,151
Total .. £7,038,628 £60,310,471
Thus we get :
Exports £60,310,471
Imports 7,038,628
Excess of Gold Exports .. £53,271,843
That is in five years only. During that period many
millions were borrowed in London ; several more mil-
lions were subscribed for Australian ventures. But,
instead of London sending Australia money, it sent
goods and kept the money; on the other
hand it took its interest in money or what
could be coined into money. Hence the vast
accumulation of gold in Britain; and hence
also _ J. Bull’s capacity to lend thousands of
millions. Not that he ever had the actual money
to lend ; he knew when he undertook to lend that he
wouldn’t be called -upon to provide cash. He keeps
the money and supplies goods; and on those goods
we go on paying interest for ever and ever—-or we
will go on paying for ever and ever unless we do
something a lot more emphatic in the way of sink-
ing funds than we have done hitherto.
* * * *
According to the latest returns the length
of the railways in the Commonwealth is as follows:
Miles.
State-owned lines .. .. .. 15,467
Private, open for general traffic . 949
Private lines, used for special purposes
only 1,016
Total 17,432
The gauges are:—
Broad (sft. 3in.) .. .. .. 4,079
Standard (4ft. Bjin.) .. .. .. 3,824
Narrow (3ft. 6in.) .. . . . . 9,233
Mere streaks (2ft. 6in. and 2ft.) .. 296
Total 17,432
In 1897 a conference was held between the Railway
Commissioners of N. S. Wales, Victoria, and S. Aus.,
to consider this increasingly-important question of
diversity of gauge, and it was then estimated that it
would cost N. S. Wales a total of £4,260,000 to
change from the standard to the sft. 3in. gauge (this
includes alteration of rolling stock), while it would
cost the three States £2,360,500 to convert the
sft. 3in. lines to the standard gauge. These figures
do not include the cost of converting the narrow-
gauge lines, of which, as shown above, there is now
more than of all others put together. Neither Queens-
land nor Westrali a has any railways at all of a
broader gauge than 3ft. 6in. Every year the position
gets worse as more lines are built; for while N. S.
Wales is pushing on with 4ft. Biin. lines, practically
all the new lines in the other States are being built
on the 3ft. 6in. gauge. The longer the delay in
bringing the States into accord in this matter, the
more, therefore, it will cost the people. And on past
experience the only way to bring the States into ac-
cord will be by the simple process of unification.
Queensland, on latest figures, has 464 miles of
3ft. 6in. railway and 80 miles of 2ft. railway not
owned by the State. The longest line is owned by
the Chillagoe Co.; most of the other mileage is
owned by the shires. The longest of these latter
lines, built under the Local Authorities Act of 1902,
is the Ayr tramway, which runs out into the sugar
country from Townsville. Three shires are interested,
and are responsible to the State for the amount ad-
vanced to build and equip the line, which is over 40
miles long. Throughout its career this enterprise
has been a success, and last year it was more of a
success than ever, mainly on account of the great
prosperity of the sugar industry since its “ruin” by
the withdrawal of T. Tanna. The business panned
out as follows: —
Net revenue .. .. .. ..£16,092
Expenses and maintenance .. .. 4,131
Profit £11,961
Interest and redemption .. . . 3,942 •
Surplus . .. .. .. £8,019
The three shires jointly undertook to pay the Govern-
ment £5 Is. Id. p.c.; the actual earnings in excess
of working expenses, after writing off plant depre-
ciation, were equal to 15 1-3 p.c. The total amount
borrowed was £78,000; the total outstanding is
£69,298. And the Board, which manages the
highly successful concern on behalf of the munici-
palities, not only has the undertaking on which the
£78,000 was spent, but also £ 14,385 in liquid
assets, in addition to various improvements and
non-liquid assets, notwithstanding that during
last year £5OOO was distributed among the three
shires in relief of rates —money which, of course,
would have been scattered in divs. had the work been
undertaken by Private Enterprise.
Allen Taylor and Co., Ltd., timber mer-
chants, etc. (Sydney):—
Reserves
(including 1
To Re- Insurance
Profits. Dividends. serves. Reserve).
May, 1907.. 10 p.c. = £3OOO £1,576
Nov., 1907.. £3579 10 „ ~ 3000 £579 2,155
May, 1908.. 3567 10 „ ~ 3000 367 2,522
Nov., 1908.. 3185 10 „ ~ 3000 185 2,707
May, 1909.. 0389 10 ~ ~ 3750 2639 5,346
Premiums on new shares 1875 7,221
Nov., 1909.. 5029 10 p.c. = 3750 1279 8,500
May, 1910.. 5377 10 „ ~ 3795 1582 10,082
Premiums on new shares 3125 13,207
Nov., 1910.. 6605 10 p.c. = 4614 1991 15,198
May, 1911.. 6306 10 „ ~ 5000 1306 16,504
One day last week the daily papers printed as a head-
line—“ Allen Taylor’s capital.” Contrary to expecta-
tions, this didn’t refer to the way in which Sydney’s
strenuous Mayor had stood the shock of knighthood.
It was merely an intimation of the fact that, having
issued all its £lOO,OOO, the co., of which Allen
Taylor is one of the two managing directors, pro-
posed to ask authority to issue another £150,000 as
and when required. The co. is in the timber and lumber
trade, and no doubt the money that will be first
asked for will be used in opening up, by tramways
and otherwise, country secured in the Port Macquarie
and other northern districts. How that investment
will turn out it is, of course, too soon to say; all that
can be said now is that similar enterprises have not
by any means been always successful. Certainly the
profits made in the past three or four years are no
criterion of the profits that are likely to be averaged
in the future; for the timber trade has been extra-
ordinarily brisk, on account not only of the building
boom but of the very large sums (mostly borrowed)
spent in Government construction works in all the
States. Probably, on the other hand, this co. could
have shown bigger profits if it had felt that way.
The directors, in fact, suggest something of the
kind; “their chief duty,” they say, “is not so much
to increase divs. as to make the co.’s position so
strong that less prosperous seasons, should they
come, may be met with fullest confidence. Large
depreciation allowances have been made in all the
assets. . . . The actual values are not thereby less-
ened ; but it means that no ordinary reverse need
cause the co'. the least anxiety.”
Unfortunately we are not able to tell just what
those depreciation allowances are; but all along
they have looked substantial. Something may, per-
haps, be dug out of this comparison:—
Liabilities.
Nov., Nov., May, Nov., May,
1906. 1909. 1910. 1910. 1911.
Capital.. .. £60,000 £75,000 £89,205 £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO
Debts .. .. 9,597 4,156 379 704 9,547
Assets.
Country mills.. 3,825 4,197 4,483 11,408 12,035
Pyrmont whar-
ves, mill, etc.
Dhto'(No. 2) !! 9 ’ ooo B’ooo 8 ’ 000 7 > ooo 6 « 000
Vessels .. 18,050 22,600 23,100 24,160 25,066
Book debts, etc. 25,517 29,700 36,190 53,977 42,767
Cash, etc. .. 1,010 6,610 12,789 3,972 9,197
Stocks .. 9,502 13,243 11,725 8,658 23,686
The cash, etc., is exclusive of the Insurance and Re-
serve Fund, whose £12,300 is partly in fixed de-
posits, partly in Sydney City Council debentures, and
partly (as to only £750) in Illawarra and South
Coast S. N. shares. One can follow the wharves and
mill item, and see how severely it has been written
down. Other assets may have been written down in
the same way; but on account of additions, the
movement can’t be followed. Large allowances for
depreciation may be equivalent to hidden reserves;
in other words, the assets may be worth much more
at present than the accounts show. But it is not
safe to rely very much on that, or to assume that
the values will be there when they come to be rea-
lised. Partly on account of the wild borrowing
policy of nearly all the States, and the rush of
public works, there is an undoubted dearth of work-
men in many callings, and both labor and material
are costing far more than the average; so that, say,
a building put up now may cost 20 p.c. more than
it would under normal conditions, and therefore 20
p.c. more than it will sell for under normal
conditions; and stocks accumulated now will
prol ably be subject to the same depreciation
• —-unless, of course, they are got rid of
while the boom prices rule. From the investors’
point of view, the only other matter that seems to
call for notice is the existence of managing directors
in A. Taylor and Co.. There are two of these, with
a third elected director; the two managing directors
“shall remain in office until either they resign or die
or are removed by special resolution of the co.” —
which is better, anyhow, than a straight-out life
governorship. As to voting, 50 shares carry one
vote; and nobody may have more than 100 votes.
* * * *
The Westralian Trustee, Executor and
Agency Co. (Perth)
Writ-
Dividends and ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves.
Oct., 1903.. £986 10p.c. =£473 £513 £7,323
Apl., 1904.. 1443 32J „ ~ 1523 7,243
Oct., 1904.. 1363 10 „ „ 525 —83 S
Apl., 1905.. 1551 30 „ ~1575 8,057
Oct., 1905.. 1611 10 ~ ~ 525 1086 9,143
Apl., 1906.. 1252 10 ~ ~ 525 727 9,870
Oct., 1906.. 714 10 ~ ~ 525 189 10.059
Apl., 1907.. 1197 15 „ „ 757 410 10,469
Oct., 1907.. 1589 20 ~ ~1050 £389 150 10,619
Apl., 1908.. 1275 10 ~ „ 525 1000 10,369
Oct., 1908.. 1107 10 ~ ~ 525 582 10,951
Apl., 1909.. 1075 20 ~ ~1050 25 10,976
Oct., 1909.. 1557 10 ~ ~ 525 1032 12,008
Apl., 1910.. 1831 20 ~ ~1050 268 513 12,521
Oct., 1910.. 1616 20 ~ ~ 1050 66 500 13,021
Apl., 1911.. 1892 30 „,, 1575 317 13,338
The capital is £50,000 in 20,000 shares of £2 10s„
paid to 10s. ( = £lO,OOO paid). Now a call of Is.
per share is made, so that £lOOO of the present divi-
dend is really a transfer of profits to capital. This
is better than paying away all the money to share-
holders, who have hitherto drawn far too large a
proportion of the profits. The co. has made rapid
progress. Five years ago the value of trust estates
in hand was £264,948 ; the total is now £1,617,303 ;
Apparently also a considerable agency business is
done; the total revenue last half-year was £4794, of
which £3964 was derived from commissions, and
that could hardly be made out of the ordinary charges
on estates valued at £1,600,000. The co. has the
big Westralian field to itself; there is no other
Westralian trustee co. Thus, since Westralian
development, apart from gold-mining, is only in its
infancy, the co. appears to be on a wicket where it
should score heavily, though no doubt the time will
come when charges will have to be modified. Cer-
tainly the ordinary trustee makes even now what
looks a very small charge for its services; and there
is no question whatever that it does its work in-
finitely better than the same work used to be done
by the trustee who tackled the job out of friendship or
as a mere side-line; and, moreover, it gives guaran-
tees which the private trustee never gave. But there
is so much capital looking out for investment that,
sooner or later, the big divs. paid by this and a few
other trustee cos. will induce keener competition.
And there is also the certainty that either the Com-
monwealth will follow the lead of Great Britain and
establish a public trust office, or that the States
which haven’t yet got a public trustee, will appoint
one. Meantime the private trustee co. that is wise
will increase its capital, and thus automatically de-
crease its rate of dividend, instead of hitting the
public in the eye with 20 p.c. divs. That increase of
capital would, of course, mean greater security for
clients; so, while turning aside the public’s sword,
the process would also doubtless bring in more busi-
ness.
The Northern Steamship Co. (Auckland,
M.L.)
Added
to Re- Re-
March, Profits. Dividends. server. serves.
1901 .. £7,380 7 p.c. =£4,967 £2413 £40,238
Taken
from
Reserves.
1902 .. 4,397 7 „ ~ 4,875 478 39,760
Loss.
1903 .. 1,808 7 ~ „ 4,875 6683 33,077
Profit. Added.
1904 .. 14,062 7 „ „ 6,905 7157 40,234
1905 .. 7,127 7 ~ ~ 6,905 222 40,456
Taken
from
Reserves.
1906 .. 5,724 7 „ „ 6,905 1181 39,275
Added.
1907 .. 15,628 7 „ „ 8,681 6947 46,222
Taken
from
Reserves.
1908 .. 5,561 7 ~ ~ 8,681 3120 43,102
1909 .. 3,810 7 „ „ 9,515 5705 37,397
1910 .. 11,213 7 „ „ 11,277 64 37,333
Added.
1911 .. 17,465 7 ~ „ 11,299 6166 43,499
The reserves are made up as follows:
Insurance accounts £36,710
Boiler and repairs account .. .. 6,349
Unappropriated balance .. .. 1,440
Total £43,499
It is highly probable that some of these reserves are
not true reserves. They appear to be partly accumu-
lations of premiums to cover unexpired risks, and
partly a provision for the repair or renewal of
plant, which is already some way towards the scrap-
heap. Consequently the additions made to those re-
serves are not true profits, though they are included
in the accounts. The management’s own estimate
of profits, “after making provision for insurance, de-
preciation and boiler and repairs accounts,” is
£11,702 for the past year. This compares with
recent figures, derived from the same source, in this
way:—
1906.. .. £7.209 | 1909.. .. £9,289
1907.. .. 9,057 1910.. .. 11,252
1908.. .. 8,787 | 1911.. .. 11,696
These figures differ widely from those in the first
table; the explanation lies in the fact that large
amounts occasionally come off reserves, sometimes to
pay for repairs, at other times to pay for ship losses.
Digging into the accounts, the shovel turns up these
other figures:—
1902. 1909. 1910. 1911.
Capital.. ..£69,642 £160,243 £161,412 £161,412
Liabilities .. 36,118 59,753 47,057 29,437
Ships, etc. .. 131,268 226,634 216,167 204,401
Premises, etc... 5,279 6,193 5,103 5,013
Stores, etc. .. 11,811 30,682 30,181 30,585
During the past two years, while only £1169 of
new capital has been got in, the liabilities have been
reduced by £30,316. Something may possibly have
been realised by the sale of old steamers —the dis-
carded Waitangi, was sold a while ago—but it seems
likely that more has been spent on other vessels
than has been got from these small sales. Anyway,
the co.’s position, so far as liquid assets are con-
cerned, is approximately £30,000 better than it was
two years ago; and, barring anything derived from
the sale of assets, that may be taken to be the amount
earned in excess of the dividend, which amount seems
a very comfortable lay-by indeed against deprecia-
tion. The position altogether looks very much better
than it did a few years ago.
* * * *
National Building and Investment Society
(Adelaide): —
Loss Net To Re-
on Loss on Written duce
April, Business. Sales. Off. Deficit. Deficit.
1899 .. £459 £2l £11,160 £9,437
1900 ..546 19 10; 002
Forfeited capital .. .. £854 9,148
Profir.
1901 .. 324 162 162 8,986
Profit.
1902 .. 327 54 381 8,605
1903 .. 399 147 546 8,059
Forfeited capital .. .. 77 7,982
1904 '.. 536 60 16 580 7,402
Forfeited capital .. .. 2734 4,668
Loss. •
1905 .. 460 107 353 4,315
Forfeited capital .. .. 92 4,223
Profit.
1906 .. 100 99 199 4,024
1907 .. 344 20 - 364 3,660
Forfeited capital .. ... 1776 1,884
1908 .. 565 315 880 1,004
Reserves.
1909 .. 505 672 1177 173
To Re-
serves.
1910 .. 417 1137 1554 1,727
1911 .. 280 771 1051 2,778
Adelaide got in with a land boom ahead of Mel-
bourne, and went the whole disreputable hog. This
concern fell into trouble at that time, and has never
been really out of it since. Like a good many other
Adelaide concerns, it was established with the maxi-
mum of good intentions and the minimum of business
knowledge; and it talked a good deal about brotherly
love —-which, however, didn’t prevent the secretary
■of those days coming to grief and dragging the
society some of the way with him. As usual, the
heavy end of the trouble was the end where the de-
posits were. They had to be paid in full; and the
capital suffered in consequence. The table begins
with a revaluation of assets and a considerable writ-
ing-down, _ which produced a deficit. Little by little
that deficit has been got rid of by paying no divi-
dends, by forfeiting partly-paid shares whose owners
wouldn’t or couldn’t keep going, and by getting some
shareholders (they are called “investors”) to take
10s. in the £ and call it square. This last plan was
adopted in 1907 ; hence the forfeited capital shown
in that year, The concern has thus been practically
in liquidation for more than half a generation. The
investors’ have now been, one way and another, re-
duced to £13,912, which sum and the reserves are
1 epresented by advances and a few scrag-ends of
properties. Whether the assets are really worth 20s. in
the £, this paper doesn’t know; if they are it is
pretty rough on those shareholders who were induced
to take 10s. in the £ only three years or so back.
Anyway, it is about time the concern was wound up.
lhe expenses last year totalled £633, which was
J 2 P-c. on the capital, while the total income (apart
from realisations, of course) was under Gi p.c. The
time has come for the society to find either work or
an undertaker. It would be better to make a sacri-
fice for a prompt sale than to go on bleeding in thi3
way.
The Argus Permanent Building and Invest-
ment Society (Melbourne)
. „ . . Written To Re- Re-
April, Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1899.. £l9B Nil £339 £1548
1900.. 472 Nil 440 £32 1580
1901.. 1275 Nil 1762 1093
1902.. 1494 3 p.c. =£sos 1113 969
1903 . 1607 3 „ „ 505 963 139 1108
1904.. 1466 3 ~ ~ 505 973 1096
1905.. 926 3 ~ ~ 505 490 1027
1906.. 1133 4 ~ „ 673 199 261 1288
1907.. 1447 5 „ „ 841 269 337 1625
1908.. 1894 6 „ „ 1010 475 409 2034
1909.. 1918 6 ~ ~ 1056 209 653 2687
1910 . 2076 7 „ „ 1308 141 627 3314
1911.. 2035 7 ~ ~ 1474 157 404 3718
This society, having set its house in order, resumed
the business of lending on mortgage in 1897, and is
now going along in a quiet little way, putting a trifle
to the good every year. Its advances, which were
£31,120 in 1897, are now £53,640. It isn’t any-
thing tremendous, but since the early ’9o’s building
societies have had to feel their way. Money hasn’t, as
a rule, been thrown at them, and most of their own
capital had gone down in the wreck of the boom.
Further, the Starr-Bowkott concerns pushed into pop-
ularity. Gradually, however, a better feeling has
grownup. Naturally when the whole Victorian crop of
these societies except two or three collapsed, and
mostly collapsed very badly, the idea took root that
a building society was particularly fragile goods, and
very liable to smash. Instead of that, it ought to be
particularly free from disaster of that kind. Its
position in relation to the majority if its advances
ought to be far safer than that of a bank, for in-
stance, seeing that the very essence of the building
society system is the gradual reduction of the risk
through weekly or fortnightly payments. Whether
the societies will ever get back far into public favor
is doubtful; but they certainly did not deserve to
tall so completely out of it as they did a few years
ago. So far as this particular little concern goes,
its advances, as mentioned above, are now £53,640.
Of this total shareholders have supplied £21,974 ; the
public has supplied £27,935 in deposits and other
advances; the balance is furnished by accumulated
profits. So the depositors and other creditors are
covered even if the advances should, through some
disaster, be worth only IQs. 6d. in the £. There is
no reason to suspect that at present they are worth
less than 20s. in the £. A shrinkage of less than
Is. 6d. in the £ on the average would, however,
wipe out all the reserves, even assuming that the
assets are worth the full 20s. now; and any shrink-
age beyond that Is. 4j|d. or so in the £ would, of
course, encroach on the capital. If the shareholders
want to offer better protection to their capital they
can only do it one way—by heaping up reserves,
and that can only be done by foregoing dividends.
In those circumstances it would have been better had
the div. not been bumped up to 7 p.c.; but as it is
there, those who want safety above all things ought
to see that it doesn’t go any higher until the reserves
are much stronger.
“Wealsman”: Wild Cat par. (B.
8/6/’ll) re Hobart Gas Co., induced a dive into
some ancient statutes. The gas monopoly, which at
present takes toll of Hobart citizens, was formed in
the days when Governor Denison ruled over the
“Island of Van Diemen’s Land and its Dependen-
cies,” and the Gas Co.’s Act (1854) was passed into
law by the said Lieut.-Gov. “by, and with the ad-
vice and consent of the Legislative Council.” The
capital of the eo. was £60,000, in 3000 shares of
£2O each, and “the whole of the 3000 shares have
been subscribed,” says the preamble. The Act con-
tains 56 clauses, most of them about half a mile
long, and all utterly guiltless of a comma. Clause
41 provides that the annual dividends shall not ex-
ceed 12 p.c. and Clause 42 permits, “in consideration
of the limitation of the profits,” the establishment
of a reserve fund not exceeding £2OOO a year, and
£lO,OOO in all. If the co. earns more than the 12
p.c., and fails to keep the reserve fund within the
bounds set, it is enjoined to reduce its charges for
gas. The reserve fund is not to be used in extending
the works, but only in renewing and repairing the
pipes, etc., “which may have become damaged or de-
cayed. ’ An extension of power was granted by an
Act passed in 1857 ; but no further amendment was
needed (by the co.) for 38 years. Then, in 1895,
power was given to supply electricity, to increase
the capital by £50,000, and to retain a profit up to
6 p.c. per six months. All the profits over and above
the half-yearly 6 p.c. must be divided with the Ho-
bart Corporation. The latter body has power to
acquire the whole business, on a poll of the rate-
payers, and by payment of compensation as may be
agreed upon, or by arbitration. Meantime, no divi-
dends appear to have fallen upon the council trea-
surer, so, presumably, the 6 p.c. is not exceeded.
That, of course, means 12 p.c. per annum.
A careful study of the Acts passed in the interests
of Private Enterprise in Tasmania during the past
half-century or so seems to show that the happiest
of all happy Tas. families is that comprising the
Gas Co., the Tram Co., and the City Council of Ho-
bart. The latter donkey-vote body (a wealthy rate-
payer may swamp progress by exercising seven
votes) has the right to establish electric-light and
power works of its own; but it never mentions doing
anything of the sort, though the Gas Co. still charges
6s. 3d. per thousand, and for electricity about three
times more than the Launceston municipality. The
mayor and aldermen, indeed, have gone to the
trouble of securing legislative sanction for agree-
ments and provisions, especially made to allow the
Private Enterprise tram and gas cos. an open field
for their, operations. Both these jolly good friends
of the City Council supply electric light and power
to the citizens. “So where,” ask the aldermen, “is
the monopoly ? Haven’t we got two cos. competing
for custom ?” There certainly are two cos., but the
competition doesn’t seem very violent, seeing that the
Gas Co. supplies many of its power customers with
current from the Tram Co.’s wires! In 1909 the Gas
Co. spent a lot of time, and some money, in chang-
ing its customers’ alternating current motors
for direct current motors, so that the Tram
Co.’s electricity could be more profitably uti-
lised. Altogether there seems no reason to
doubt that the trinity mentioned, if not an absolute
unity, is based upon such an honorable understand-
ing that there is no happier family in any Common-
wealth city to-day.
* * * *
Apropos the British Australian Oil Co.,
mentioned last week: During the past six months
the British Australian Oil Co. has made wonderful
strides with its equipment at Murrurundi and Hamil-
ton (N.S.W.). The crude works, capable of turning
out millions of gallons of crude oil, are now ready
and only await the completion of the aerial ropewav
to treat the shale coming three miles over the moun-
tain from Temi mine—which, by the way, was
known as far back as 1860. Sleepy old Murrurundi
has been converted into a scene of commercial ac-
tivity, over £lOO,OOO having been spent on erecting
up-to-date plant in the township. If things go right
it is anticipated that the concern will give employ-
ment to over 1000 men in the district. The refinery
is erected at Hamilton, near Newcastle, and will be
all ready to receive crude oil in about a month.
Naphtha, motor spirit, kerosene, lubricating oils, wax
“BORROW A BIT,” SAID JOE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
At the recent “conference of Empire,” Joseph
Ward, of Maoriland, urged the old man to borrow
£50,000,000.
Never a worry e’er sat on his brow, never the sign
of a care;
Always he lavished the paper about, always had
money to spare;
“Bother my brains about paying our way!” Joseph
said, “Not if I know it!
What we can pay up in comfort we’ll pay. As to
the rest we can owe it!
Borrow a Bit,” said Joe;
“Lighten the way as you go ;
Bun to the Jew when your troubles are due, and
Borrow' a Bit!” said Joe.
Over in London he noted J. Bull ponder and worry
and chew,
How in mischance he could fend and finance, how he
could carry it through;
Joseph chipped in with a cheery guffaw': “What!
Do you mean to say, John,
Promptly you pay to the hour and the day what you
could easy pass on?
Borrow' a Bit,” said Joe;
“Lighten the way as j'ou go ;
liun to the Jew when your troubles are due, and
Borrow a Bit,” said Joe.
Life is a loan to the likes of our Joe; earth is a
pawnbroker’s shop ;
Empire and planet alike, if he could, fain would he
mortgage and “pop” ;
Lucifer’s call if he heard in the hall, straight would
he collar a pen,
Beg him to wait while he scribbled elate just a
sweet little P.N.
“Borrow a Bit,” says Joe;
“Lighten the way as you go;
Run to the Jew w'hen your troubles are due, and
Borrow a Bit,” says Joe.
QUEENSLAND.
PHILANDER F.


PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (Limited),
2, 4 (Si 6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
Specially qualified to act as
Trustees, Executors,
Administrators,
Attorneys under
Power, Agents, etc.
Absolute Security combined with Effi=
cient and Economical Management.
Trust Funds to Lend
at from 4 per cent.
A. I. MACKENZIE,
Write or Call for Booklet. Manager.
GREENING’S
screening!
Agate Stee /, Phosphor,
Bronze, Brass.
Write for particulars to
FRASER & CHALMERS LTD.,
Equitable Building, Melbourne;
Macdonald Street, Kalgoorlie;
New Zealand: D. M. DAVIS, Agent, Hall of
Commerce, High Street, Auckland. [2
NOBEL-CLASCOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
and grease will be in process of manufacture shortly,
and the eo., loaded with only a reasonable amount oi
capital, looks in every way as though it will do good
things for Australia and itself.
Grafton copper mine, Cangai (N.S.W.),
expects to be hauling firewood over its new tramline
in a few days. The co. will then make an effort to
smelt larger quantities, for ore has been accumulating
at the furnaces for some time past. Recently 189
tons of high-grade malic, containing 145 tons of
copper, were sent away ; and on an output of that
size, considering how cheaply the stuff can be mined,
the financial results ought to be better. The control
is in the hands of men who mostly knew nothing
about mining; but they are learning—by degrees.
Melbourne Cope’s Creek (N.S.AV.) pro-
duced 28 tons of tin oxide for a run of two months.
The oxide assays 74 p.c. pure tin, and the high
price realised for concentrates has enabled the lightly-
capitalised concern to pay £l5OO in dividends. It
also holds a reserve fund of £1500; in fact, nearly
all the alluvial tin cos. in New England have been
accumulating small reserve funds, because they are
rapidly working out their ground, and are anxious
to increase their areas by purchase whenever the
chance offers.
Mount Elliott (Q.) smelters continue to
do good work. Last month’s run was 572 tons, with
the usual values of gold and silver. Costs, f.o.b.
Townsville, were about £24 ss. per ton of blister.
After paying refining and shipping charges, there
would be profit on the month of about £lB,OOO. In the
No. 3 level, the movement that took place last month
in the vugh channel played the mischief with things
underground. The vugh is a large open space in the
lode, surrounded by friable ore, and it will cause a
lot of trouble. The management has handled the
matter vigorously, but for the next month or two it
will have an anxious time. There is no sign of a
start being made on the Duchess railway line.
To give the management a better chance to patch
things up underground, and also to fix up the mul-
lock passes that were lost, the smelter and converter
will be shut down for two months from July 1. Be-
sides about the usual tonnages of mine ore, Mount
Elliott has been working up about 20-25 tons of
Hampden low-grade matte.
* * * *
Smelting at Mount Elliott started last
September, and has continued for nine months. Dur-
ing the run 38,193 tons have been put through for
4866 tons copper, valued at £243,300, gold worth
£36,380, and silver worth £511; total, £280,191.
This was the brilliant effort of a carefully-prepared
show. Although costs were high, they allowed of sub-
stantial profits, irrespective, of course, of the ex-
pense of developing and preparing the mine pre-
vious to the campaign—irrespective, also, of what
it will cost to bring the mine to the productive stage
again. The brilliance of the results while they
lasted no doubt lured a good many people into the
soup. There always will be infatuated fools who,
despite warnings, won’t see that in a case of this
kind a mine is carefully prepared for a great burst
of rocketty splendor. These people will actually
pay bigger prices the nearer the rocket comes to its
end—almost up to the last fizzle. In this case, more-
over, there was a strong party interested in boosting
the market. Probably that party isn’t interested
that way any longer; so if the bottom wants to
drop out of the market, it will no doubt be allowed
to.
A letter from Cloncurry, which shows the
way the cat jumps: “It appears a mistake that the
two big mines here do not combine, like the Lyell
and North Lyell did, and have one treatment works
at Hampden, which is the most acceptable place for
the purpose. Then with the Hampden ore, besides
working up Elliott’s high-grade ores, they could use
up a lot of Elliott’s low-grade ores. Everybody
would, or at any rate should, be in pocket over such
a transaction. In time, certainly, Hampden will
have the Duchess ores, which will be a help; but it
will require something more than the Duchess ores
to bring the matte up to a decent grade for conver-
sion in the first operation. To concentrate low-
grade matte by fluxing and re-smelting adds con-
siderably to the cost of production. The furnace at
Hampden is running smoothly, but the plant is
cramped, and some of the patent devices are not
working as well as could be wished for. Fumes at
times are also a curse, and when a converter plant
gets going it will not improve conditions in that
direction.”
* [' i* * *
Reported that the Great Australia, Clon-
curry, is to be put up for sale; but it is hard to
understand how it can be sold, as the late co. pur-
chased subject to a royalty, and no one who knows
the mine would under present market conditions buy
subject to royalty. It looks as though J. Bull has
bought another delusion.
Durham Consols, Etheridge (N.Q.), is to
sink its shaft to 850 ft., and an experimental parcel
is to go to Ohillagoe for treatment. The west drive
at the 750 ft. level and the winze below the level
show better prdspects; so the 20,000 forfeited shares
have been snapped up.
* ‘ * * *
Vulcan (G-), in a run of four weeks,
crushed tons of stone for 42J tons tin con-
centrates, which realised £4919. There is a sub-
stantial profit in that. The previous crushing was
781 tons for £2031. Developments at 600 ft. are
the most important. So far a length of 60 odd feet
of lode has been proved to the south, and this lot is
expected to average 7 p.c. tin oxide. At 680 ft. the
workings disclosed a large lode, low grade, but pay-
able at present prices.
Lass o’ Gowrie, Stannary Hills* (Q.),
scintillates again: 72 tons ore returned 22 tons con-
centrates, worth locally £123 per ton. If only the
stuff didn’t take so much finding!
Oaks Rush battery (N.Q.) should start
crushing within 10 days or a fortnight. Latest Oaks
flotation is the Rip and Tear. The new co., a little
’un, has 150 tons at grass to start on—3oz. stuff or
thereabouts.
There has been a small stir on Batavia
River, at the top end of Queensland. The find was
made last October by one Pluto, an aborigine. Most
of the gold found has been coarse, the largest slug
being 260 z. A fresh stir took place when a new lead
was discovered, on which three claims have bot-
tomed on payable gold. Pluto and his partner are
doing very well; but on present appearances it isn’t
safe to view it as more than a patch.
At Gympie (Q.) No. 2 South Great
Eastern crushed 855 tons for 5600 z. gold. A “thrip-
penny” has been declared. Steady progress is being
made with the sinking of the main shaft to 2000 ft.,
and also with the crosscut at 1750 ft.; the latter still
has a long way to go, though, before the Inglewood
formation can be met. The market for No. 2 has
been dull in consequence of the poor appearance of
the stopes on the Power reef, and it hasn’t been
helped by recent crushings, which show a big drop
in grade from the previous average of loz. per ton.
No. 3 North Columbia crushed 1055 tons for 828 oz
gold. The previous return was worth £2545. Gym-
pie first gives the amalgam return, then ounces' of
smelted gold, and, lastly, the value; so people off the
field are constantly inquiring how much gold is in
the amalgam, and its value. The week-end amalgam
return gives the local man a fair idea of how the
crushing will pan out, which is important in a lo-
cality liable to sudden changes. This is one reason
why the outsider, reckoning that he hasn’t an even
chance, mostly holds off Gympie ventures.
if, or ve months Charters Towers crushed
69,095 tons, and obtained a total revenue of
£211,328. Dividends totalled £24,262, and calls
ran away with £28,548. The average yield fell
below £3 per ton; that was partly due to the
Brilliant Extended’s 21,960 tons only giving about
£ 2 2s. per ton. The forthcoming sixpennv dividend
makes the Extended’s total £112,250. Last month’s
profit was £2700; for the previous half-year the
total was £6lOO. Mills’ United crushed 10,745
tons for five months. No dividend was paid; but
there are hopes, as the reef is showing some improve-
ment. The last fortnightly return was £3144 from
The Freehold, next door, put through
7848 tons; the yield has been over £4 per ton. A
dividend of Is. recently declared makes the total 10s.
per share (£75,000). Brilliant St. George will
probably reconstruct. Kelly’s Queen Block has im-
proved prospects at the 1450 ft. level, near the Brilliant
St. George boundary; but the tonnage raised is
small, and the future depends on a sporting chance
of striking payable stone in the St. George, which
at the 657 ft. level should be met with at 160 ft.
from the shaft. The St. Patrick formation passed in
the crosscut remains to be prospected.
i- ?^ e A ol( !; d i B J illg minin §' cos. in Westralia
distributed £17,718 among shareholders during May •
making a total of £333,733 for the five expired
months of the year, and £21,685,136 since the real
inception of the industry in 1886. The June divi-
dends so far amount to £lOB,llO.
* * * *
Great Boulder (W.A.) treated 195,407
tons of ore in 1910'for £585,630. This, added to
the previous year’s unappropriated balance of £2875,
made a total of £588,505 to be cut up. Mine and
London expenditure absorbed £264,697; income
tax, £29,950; depreciation fund, £30,000: divi-
-262,500. There is thus a nest-egg of
£1357 tor 1911. Ore reserves at December 31
showed an approximate dividend value of 13s. per
share, and the cash -in hand (£179,207) an ad-
ditional 25., making 15s. in all. A lot more ore is
being extracted than developed; and, although the
conservatism hitherto shown by the management in
the estimation of reserves may be relaxed in order to
make next year’s figures look well, the deplorable
fact remains that the mine at depth is but a crumb-
ling skeleton of its former self, and its main shoot
is apparently lost to the Golden Horseshoe for ever
* * * *
South Kalgurli (W.A.) estimated its ore
reserves on March 31 at 176,544 tons actual, assay-
ing 6 * 4odwt *’ with 86,520 tons probable, valued at
s.9dwt. The estimate at the end of the previous
half-year was 171,877 tons actual, worth 6dwt. 7gr.,
and 90,930 tons probable, worth sdwt. 14gr.
* * * *
Sons of Gwalia (W.A.) reports 50s. ore
in a winze below No. 18 level. This hole is being
sunk on what is known as the north shoot of ore,
which showed up so well in the level above. The co.
has also lately unearthed some good values in the
south end of the main' No. 17 workings and ill a
winze further south at the No. 15 level. Generally
ore reserves have swollen during the current year!
and a further increase. iri the gold output is likely.
* * ‘ * * *
Great Fingall (W.A.) has started to drive
a new level at 160 ft. below No. 17 level, go far the
values obtained in sinking No. 4 winze below No. 17
level, and those met in driving north at the latter
point, indicate a continuance of the gold. The man-
agement’s hope of developing a lot of ore in the
bottom of this once great mine seems to have a
good chance of being realised.
Minerals Separation Co.’s process is now
having a go at the Lancefield ore (W.A.). Tests
have so far proved satisfactory, but before deciding
to instal a new plant, an expert is to test things
on a larger scale. As regards the appearance of the
mine at depth, values in the drive are much lower
than those met in the crosscut; but this is said to
be due to the fact that, in the interests of economi-
cal mining, the drive is being extended along the
footwall of the lode, which portion carries the lower
values.
* * * *
Ida H. (W.A.) is being boomed in London
as a “big thing.” It isn’t. The only shoot in the
mine is narrow, and its length is only 220 ft or
thereabouts. The heart of it at 1000 ft. may average
a few ounces per ton for a distance of, say, 40ft.,
but the recoverable value of the whole is no more than
between 22dwt. and 23dwt., or perhaps a little less
than that. Having first reconstructed without any
justification, and then got rid of its old manager in
the same way, the co. may try later on to pick the
ore and blaze for a time on increased yields and
profits; but if that is done, shareholders may take it
for granted that the object is to enable insiders to
skip out and leave the public in charge of the baby.
Yuanmi Co. (W.A.) has been privately
floated in London in 350,000 £1 shares, of which
280,000 shares, credited with 18s. 6d. paid, have
been issued, and are jointly held by the Oroya Ex-
ploration and Oroya-Black Range, Ltd. These cos.
hold a half-share each in the show. The mine has
opened up well down to 300 ft., where about 200 ft.
of driving has been done in ore worth from 60s. to
70s. per ton over a width of about sft. Above
300 ft. the mine is believed to have nearly 100,000
tons of reserves.
* * * *
Cathcart Victory, Ararat (Vic.), comes
along, half ashamed of having been floated on the
tail of Harry Dodds’s Ararat boom. It wasn’t half
such a snipe as the Margaret, because the amateur
crowd that took it on was roped in rather late, when
heavy vendors’ loading was out of the question. A
good working miner, Alec Dow, is in charge, and
with shallow ground he has made the driblet of cash
that has reached him go as far as any thrifty house-
wife could stretch it. Trial lots of wash from drives
have given loz. returns, so there is every chance of the
little show panning out nicely. To the south is a
deep run of ground. As payable wash has been
opened up to it, the point is, Will this channel prove
payable too ? In the Cathcart nearly all the gold
was got on the high reef, but there could hardly
have been the same scour in the lead worked by the
Victory. Management and office exes, are fairly
moderate, though they might be less; so the money
put up by call-payers mostly gets into the mine.
And it should soon get its answer. No. 2 rise will
be into wash directly, when the deep ground will be
tested.
Jimmy Warne won’t give much away
over New Jubilee, Searsdale (Vie.). He must belong
to the school that holds that a Board should trust no
one but itself; for he even shuts down on the publi-
cation of the tonnage of ore handled by the battery. A
silly lot of shareholders in a silly mood actually lets
the Board hide the fortnightly clean-up. If they knew
the law better they wouldn’t have wasted time to
argue about that. If monthly tonnages, etc., are
wanted by a shareholder, then the Board must ante-
up the news. If it doesn’t, a formal protest from
• the shareholder, and an intimation that he will hold
the directors jointly and severally liable for any loss
he may sustain through the withholding of the in-
formation, will throw upon them a legal responsibility
a bit heavier than they will care to shoulder. Old
George Lansell once tried to block the publication of
the yields of his 180 mine, till the Minister for
Mines coldly announced that he wanted them weekly
for his file, and Lansell had to bend his stiff back.
And that was a private mine, too. If there is any
strong feeling among the New Jubilee crowd, a polite
note to Peter Mcßride will fetch Warne and com-
pany off the perch. As for the mine, it has a lot of
low-grade stuff, and if that stuff can be made to
pay, there is a good rise ahead of shares.
Williams’ Fancy, Berringa (Vic.), got on
to the div. list once last half year. How it did so can be
related for the benefit of managers who have lOdwt.
dirt to play with. Tons crushed, 12,752; yield,
20530 z.; value, £8434 ; average yield per' ton,
3jdwt. Total expenses, £7404 ; profit, £lO3O.
Mine outlay (including development and treatment)
was 11s. 2d. per ton; contingent exes., lid. per ton ;
management, 3fd.; total, 11s. 7 jd. per ton. For
doing this sort of work the mine manager gets £144
for the half-year, directors £32 10s., legal manager
£lO4. Looking back, the record is much the same:
207,690 tons crushed; yield, 43,4440 z.; average
4dwt. 4.40 gr. per ton. Dividends, £17,400, on a
paid-up capital of £12,000. Nor is work near the
surface. Six levels are opened up and two lodes are
operated on at the bottom. This is the sort of mine
that would feel the pinch of higher costs. A 25 p.c.
increase in labor cost alone would put the co. well
on the call list.
Outtrim-Howitt, Gippsland, for the past
half-year only worked up to 16,472 tons of coal. The
co. is being hit fore and aft. The State mine at
Wonthaggi takes the best men, and also cuts into
the small coal trade. Work on the main dip also
shows a narrow seam. If the coal is clean it runs
down to 2ft. in thickness; if the seam widens, fault-
ing soon upsets everything. In the six months
1761 ft. of drives and headings were carried out, and
823 ft. of drill-boring done, without adding appreciably
to reserves. The co. has good reason to snarl at
Dame Natdre ; but it prefers to snarl at Wonthaggi.
Working account shows £1579 profit for the term;
but when £652 is written off and £777 office exes.,
etc., are paid, the co. is left with only a hundred or
so to the good. This won’t pay divs. on 150,000
shares, of which many are held in London. Finan-
cially it is on the right side, for it has a little nest-
egg of £5OOO on fixed deposit—a handy thing to
keep in case it should ever alight on a second Powlett,
The Junction Dredging Co. (Vic.) is a
case of greasing the fat pig. It came along with its
61st div. the other day—-£2750 for the half-year
on a paid capital of £9625; and the previous half
was a shade better even than that. Net profits for
the year exceed the total capital. Yet the two
dredges haven’t had the freest of runs, having
bumped a good many ancient stumps along the bed
of the creek. The area worked in the half-year was
13 acres. That makes a total of 226 acres chewed
over, leaving 190 acres to come. The show is on
the Porepunkah, in the Bright district.
Gippsland Copper and Platinum, Wal-
halla (Vic.), will need fresh capital, as £6OOO is
required to improve the smelting works. The smel-
ter is not on the same side of the river as the mine,
and a break-up of the bridge across the Thompson
caused the works to close down. When the recon-
struction is through, the show will have two fur-
naces, the first to produce a medium grade matte,
the second to concentrate the copper up to 40 p.c. or
50 p.c. for subsequent converter treatment.
Briseis (Tas.) pays another sixpenny.
Large profits are being made out of the compara-
tively small production of 48 tons of tin oxide per
month. The value at £l2O per ton (which is very
high for 70 p.c. concentrates) is £5760, and on
that basis Briseis enjoys a revenue of £69,120 per
annum. The trouble is that the co. is literally eating
its own head and body, and there isn’t much left
to make a meal of. Rather vague scraps of information
are cabled from London: the latest was that a profit
of £ll,OOO was made for the March quarter, which
provided 143 tons concentrates, containing 105 tons
tin. Nothing but a booming tin market could ac-
count for a profit like that. If black tin averages
£l2O per ton for 12 months, Briseis has a fair chance
of securing a revenue of £70,000, which should
mean two dividends of 6d. each. But profit on this
scale cannot be expected to last.
* * v *
William Jamieson and his friends, who
have had the Blythe iron ore deposit (Tas.) for 10
years, have to work the leases or hand them over.
What killed the Blythe iron proposition was the fear
of the nationalisation of the iron industry. If the
co. could have been insured against that, and also
assured of a bonus and high duties, a million sterling
could have been got to work this wonderful deposit.
As it certainly won’t be able to get the million
now, the co. may lose the show. If it does, no one
else is likely to just now give it a chance; for the
export of iron ore at the present prices of pig and
of freights isn’t a dependable transaction. If another
set of idlers are to be installed, The Bulletin pre-
fers to see the Jamieson crowd left in possession.
Unless the State is reasonably sure that some other
people will go ahead, it is likely to gain more by
non-forfeiture than by forfeiture.
There was a faint whisper recently that
Lloyd’s (N.S.W.) was to be given another run; and
shares were nibbled at when they could be got for
a penny or so. The prospects are just as poor as
they can be. It isn’t what a man pays for the
shares that he has to look at; it is what he would
have to pay to make the mine a producer. Probably
£25,000; and then there would be no certainty of
profits.
“Squib” : Re Mount Morgan’s copper out-
put. Vast things were promised when the Many
Peaks stuff was get-at-able. The mixture was a bit
rebellious, and at the outset the unkept promises
were excused on that score. Then months passed,
and the metallurgists tried to appear as “knowing”
as could be about it. But the output didn’t shift.
Christmas came, and its holidays served as an ex-
cuse. Then February, the tail-less month. Then
March, and the floods answered. But it is June now,
and only three furnaces out of five are running;
and the time still seems a good way ahead when the
long-expected lift in tonnage will eventuate. There
are some people who only expect the monthly excuse.
* * * *
At Sapphire Town (Q.) an improved
washing machine has been tried, with the result that
ground carrying a quarter of an ounce of blue sap-
phires to the dray-load, is now considered payable;
and the gougers have bought themselves an extra
pint on the strength of it.
* * * *
Talisman Consolidated (M.L.) shows a net
profit of £100,471 for the year, after allowing for
taxes and depreciation. Dividends paid absorbed
£100,447. In addition, £23,177 was brought into
the account. What with premiums on the new share
issue, the financial position is strong; there is a
cash balance of over £35,000, although during the
past three years £BO,OOO has been spent on plant.
Ore reserves on Februarv 28 last were estimated at
49,703 tons, of an average value of £6 os. sd.
Every engineer in charge of factories and mills
should give close attention to the power wasted in
transmission of power. The Hyatt Flexible Roller
Bearings save 20 per cent, power and 75 per cent,
of oil, so one of the first duties is naturally for
engineers to direct their special attention to these
bearings and to car boxes for trucks. Hyatts are
in continuous use in Cement Works, Ore Dressing
Mills, Factories, etc., in Australia. Bushings ot
flexible rollers may be applied to loose pulleys or
truck wheels, etc. Should engineers require further
details, they can apply to the Australian Agents,
W. & J. Lempriere, Melbourne; or E. W. Hurst-
house and Co., of Wellington, the agents in New
Zealand.*
“FERRODOR” Paint. —Specially manufactured foi
preserving galvanised iron and steel. Unaffected by
sea air, sulphur fumes, cyanogen gases. Used on
Princes and Victoria Bridges, P. and O. and N.D.L.
steamers, etc. Covers 1000 sq. yds. per cwt. WM.
ADAMS & CO., LTD., 175 Clarence Street, Sydney.*
The BELL’S ASBESTOS CO., LTD., London, hav-
ing purchased the works of the ci-devant United
Asbestos Co., is extending its manufacturing opera-
tions. Apart from producing every known appliance
of Asbestos for mechanical engineering and Asbestos
Packed Boiler Mountings and Steam Valves, the
company has erected a plant for the manufacture of
Asbestos Wall Sheets and Roofing Tiles, known as
“Poilite,” being the only factory in Great Britain
making this new fireproof building material. Head
office in Australia, 315 Kent Street, Sydney.*
Professor Richards, in the revised edition of his
celebrated edition of “Ore Dressing,” 1909, devotes
14 pages to the Wilfley concentrating table, and,
among other things remarks (p. 1465) : “The first
table sold was installed in the Puzzle Mill, at Breck-
enridge, Colorado. Since then over 12,000 have been
sold. This machine has revolutionised ore-dressing,
and as such is a phenomenal success. The original
form, and forerunner of all modern shaking tables
with longitudinal riffles . . has been greatly improv-
ed. And further on (p. 1478) remarks: “One feature
of the Wilfley table to which especial attention should
be called is its ability to separate sands from slimes
while making the ordinary concentration. This sep-
aration is more complete and thorough than can be
made by any classifier, and should be taken advant-
age of in designing mills.” In the extensive addi-
tions just made to the Golden Horseshoe Mine (W.A.)
a large number of Wilfley Concentrators have been
installed. The Austral Otis Engineering Company
Limited, South Melbourne, have the sole manufac-
turing rights.* [j
FOR SALE Cheap, Second-Hand, 15 Break lI.P.
Tangye Gas Engine, in good order. Apply Manager,
Bulletin Office, 214 George Street, Sydney.*
Extract from The Finance Chronicle, London
(15/11/1910)—-“Colonial Mutual Life Office: We have
been favored with a copy of an exceedingly business-
nke prospectus, just issued by this well-managed
Life Assurance Society, setting forth the superior
advantages of their Combined Life, Accident and
Sickness policies. On comparing the rates charged
m the tables shown in the prospectus, we find that
at most ages the premiums quoted are exceedingly
moderate; in fact, the rates are in many instances
about the same as the average premiums charged by
most offices for endowment life insurance only.
“The Colonial Mutual Society is well known for
its low whole-life premium rates, but this new com-
bined policy, covering as it does those extra risks
at the exceedingly low rates quoted, only requires to
be known .to be largely applied for.”*
WOOD PIPE has won success by its great quali-
ties —economy, durability and increased carrying
capacity. The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Bal-
main, Sydney, win send catalogue.*
* * * *
Mine Managers, Engineers.—Do you want a first-
class Pneumatic Tool, Machine, or an Air Com-
pressor. Ask for the NILES. BOHLER BROS. AND
CO., LTD., 1 Angel Place, Pitt Street, Sydney, and
183 Queen Street, Melbourne, will provide you with
it. Also with Castings, solid and hollow Miners’
Drill Steel, Cast Steel for aR purposes, Motor-car
Steels, Tools, etc.*
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
1/ so, write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address, 163 King
Street, Sydney, and 9 Queen Street, Melbourne.* [1
* * * *
An economical proposition in belt conveying of
great interest to mining and mill managers, en-
gineers, etc. “Condor” Brand Registered Black Sur-
face Hardened Conveyor Belting—specially adapted
for the Australian climate —for conveying ore, sand,
metal, wheat, coal, etc. Less than half cost of
rubber belting, giving excellent results, Kalgoorlie,
Broken Hill, and Wallaroo. Write for price lists
and particulars to Sole Manufacturers, Hopkins Bros.
& Odium Prop., Ltd., Leicester Street, Carlton, Mel-
bourne.*
* * * *
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modern scientific appliances kept in stock.’
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne.*
F. DANVERS POWER, mining engineer, is pre-
pared to purchase approved MINING properties. Ad-
less: National Mutual Chambers, Pitt and Bond
Streets, Sydney.*
if * #
Nobel’s Explosives are the best and most re-
liable. We are agents for the original makers,
Hamburg. Large stocks on hand. Contracts at low
rates WM. ADAMS & CO., LTD., 175 Clarence
Street, Sydney.*
Mine managers when requiring air compressors
either belt, steam, or electrically driven, should not
fail to inspect the Rea veil Air Compressor, when they
will be impressed by its simplicity, compactness and
portability. Owing to the working parts being en-
tirely enclosed it can be placed to work on any part
of the mine, either on the surface or underground
The number of repeat orders which Messrs. Reaveli
have received from the mining community proves
how greatly their compressor is appreciated. The
representatives for Australia are Messrs. Babcock
and Wilcox, Haymarket, Sydney.* T 2
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign Patents obtained
Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Melbourne, and
Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write us for In-
ventors’ Guide.*
* * * »
Assayers, Mine Managers, and Prospectors
write to H. B. Silberberg and Co., 443 Bourke
Street, Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining
requisites and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc
pulverisers to 200 mesh ; hand sample grinders to
i zionnn ’ 4 lnswor th’ s ass ay balances sensitive to
1/13000 grain; prospector’s balances to 1/1000
grain , weight; pocket transits ; gasoline combination
furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles; chemicals; etc.*


CaitUlsrumrt'Hk
HEERINGd
HEERING’S
COPENHAGEN
CHERRY
BRANDY.
Est. 1818.
World
fsd
Renowned
r Trade Mark.
STUHR’S
Finest Table Delicacies
Genuine Caviare.
Anchovies in Brine.
Peeled Scrimps.
Shrimps Extract.
Sold by all High-class Provision Dealers.
C. P. STUHR & CO., Hamburg.
English Export Agent: W. Lovegrove, London, E.C.
R°B“R
%
a
/
i\
TJ_
You ought to be in a tea-room
to hear the latest gossip about
everybody—the talk that some-
times goes on would make your
hair stand on end —and oh! the
“jam” some of the women do
put on, to be sure —Ldies they
call themselves! —do you know
I’ve seen them come in with
diamonds on every finger, and
drink tea out of their saucer—
until really! it seemed to me
just waste to give them good tea
like Robur, that cost us 1/6 a
pound. Of course, it isn’t my
place to say anything, bur 1 think
a good deal. On the other hand,
some of tne very nicest people
come to us, and then it’s a
pleasure to feel they canft get
better tea anywhere than we give
them. ever 1 get married,
it’s the No. 1 Grade Robur
that I’ll use in my home —you’ve ;
no idea what nice tea it is
or how saving it is.
The Waitress. :
QUALITY—BUCHANAN WHISKY
“BLACK 4 WHITE.”
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, June 26, 1911.
My Dear Arini, —
The Coronation crop of Knights, Garters
and C.M.G.’s was unexpectedly small, and
many who fancied they had heard a call were
disgusted to find they hadn’t been chosen.
Nevertheless, a K.B. gaud dropped into the
Town Hall for Mayor Allen Taylor, and the
congratulations and condolences that fol-
lowed weighed about four tons. Mr. Jus-
tice Williams, of Maoriland, aged 74, had a
narrow escape of dying before he grafted a
Knight Bachelorhood on to his tough legal
stem. Native Minister Carroll (M.L.), a
fine, upstanding specimen of bone and mus-
cle, coated with a Spanish hidalgo com-
plexion. was summoned to join the big
Michael and George corroboree. His chief,
Joseph Ward, acquired a baronetcy, which
is a long-range weapon. When a British
Sovereign fires it off, he doesn’t know what
he is going to hit in the next century. If
there should be a slump in the Ward grain-
and-produce business in a hundred years or
so, a Baronet Ward may have to clean
knives or black other people’s boots for a
crust. Cyril Ward, who will have to take
up the title later, is married ; and Vincent
Ward, still open to offers, spends his busi-
ness hours in working the London and New
York ends of his parent’s produce store in
M.L. The quaky Dominion Premier’s wife
is so popular with her own sex that they’ll
overlook her brand-new right to walk in
front of every other dame in the Dominion —
Government House frills excepted.
The Town Hall coronated inside and out.
It poked a tower of golden light into an
Arctic night; it wore trim, gauzy pink pet-
ticoats over the head-lights in the main body
of its hall; and it flaunted long garlands of
feathery smilax from ceiling to gallery. It
was a boAver of beauty, Avith a large acreage
of bunting in its balconies, and a palm-tree
plantation in its vestibule. The Mayoral
Ball on June 22 careered round this decor-
ative dressing with considerable success.
The trek for supper bloated the ballroom
doors, opposite the descent to the basement,
in the region of 11 p.m. In the middle of
an exit from the front steps, it was interest-
ing to linger a moment and watch the patient
pack of the Well-fed and Best-dressed, tak-
ing such enormous trouble to shiver on the
threshold of a superfluous meal. The
Wretch suggests that the only explanation
is that Society and its fringe is entirely hol-
low. A frequent food supply prevents its
machinery getting so dislocated that it
Avould rattle audibly.
The newly-knighted Allen Taylor's ermine
stole of mayoral office Avas a snug-looking
drape that any freezing non-dancer could
have wrapped round her neck with ecstasy.
Mayoress Taylor’s tunic of white crystal
beads over a pastel-tinted shimmer of satin
was one of the best-looking garments in the
room. The habit of veiling one handsome
robe with another is becoming a regular
evening habit. The wife of Lieut.-Gov. Cul-
len, who has an alert personal appearance,
Avas garbed in dappled grey. The spruce
grooming of the A.D.C., with his immacu-
late lake of laundered linen, eased off in
front by the blue flaps of his SAvallow-tail
coat, is as grace before the meat of official
beef, clad in raven plumage. Captain Du-
maresq, by the way, is so slim that his ele-
gant waist-line is the envy of the merely fat.
The Danish Consul blazed in bullion, and
Avisely wore his official trousers long, instead
of short. The diplomatic Court knicker-
bocker on a cold night is a snare for sneezes,
and is more hygienic left at home in tissue
paper. Other male uniforms were of every
cut. and color, from fair to middling. The
militia coat often sags in the back, and
wants a few whalebones or reefs in its front-
ispiece. But it fits the average peaceful cit-
izen, who gets into it in occasional bursts
of. glory, quite as well as the Admirable
King-Hall’s Rule Britannia gold and serge.
His naval Ex. is not a dandy, and cheerfully
Avears wrinkles on his chest in full war-
paint.
“Mrs. Fisher was as quietly dressed as
any lady present.” This mystic sentence is
dug out of the London cabled report to a
Sydney morning paper. It refers to the
Westminster party, and demands an index.
Does it echo the mild surprise of a Cold
Land. correspondent that the wife of Labor
Premier Fisher wasn’t garbed in gum-leaf
hobbles, with boomerang ornaments? Or is
it a carefully-disguised hint that Mrs. Fisher
was as weW-dressed as any coronater present?
We know now that Governor Chelmsford
really Avent to London to make glad pater-
nal noises to a new daughter. That makes
six hopefuls altogether—two sons and four
of the other kind.
The Dudley regime is coming to a close
Avith no great outburst of grief on the part
of the section which labels itself Society.
It really thought things Avere going to be
done better —in other words, that it was go-
ing to ha\ r e more money spent on its free
food and drink. The lavish hospitality of
the NorthcotCs, and the munificent private
charities of Lady Northeote, blazed a brilliant
trail across Commomvealth cities. The Den-
man Excellencies will have to move quickly
if they are going to get ahead of the North-
cote motor-car.
Absence and ill-health dulled Lady Dud-
ley’s kindly attempts to take a hand in
passing events. Her Ex.’s supreme effort,
the original Bush Nursing scheme, bore
death on its face, and perished from want
of financial breath. Its death was hastened
by the unfortunate “help” it got from an
autocratic and inexperienced assistant, who
flung the English district nurse at yawning
drawing-room meetings in this city. The
new and revised Bush Nursing youngster,
the result of local and expert organisation
in each State, shows signs of getting on its
legs and keeping its finances in good repair.
It is likely to he called “the Lady Dudley
scheme,” and nobody is going to quarrel with
the label.
The Lady Dudley presentation portrait,
painted by John Longstaff, is leaning back
on its studio easel as I close this letter.
It’s a lovely piece of paint, and a fine, if some-
what flattered, likeness of the original. Her
Ex. changes a good deal, and gravitates be-
tween pretty and medium in looks, accord-
ing to her health or nerves. Artist Long-
staff has captured her handsomest appear-
ance in a Greuze-like picture of girlish sim-
plicity. The portrait represents her Ex. full
face. There is no ornament of any kind.
The cleverly-posed head, with a soft curl of
hair on the forehead, and the graceful shoul-
ders with a foam of white chiffon, caught
at the corsage with a white tuberose —Lady
Dudley’s favorite flower—make a picture
that will send the original down to poster-
ity as a beauty. Longstaff has put his best
work into this portrait, which a section of
Sydney Society will have presented to her
Ex. before this reaches you.
The first estimate of the lucre required
for the Sheffield Choir’s scamper across the
globe was £50,000. This has gone up to
£60,000 as the result of experience. Big
takings in cities have their gilt worn off
MRS. J. R. WOOD (MISS ESSIE JENYNS) AND HER DAUGHTER.
by long ocean trips, and the odds are said
to be about even whether the choir sings
its way back to the Cold Country with a
debit or credit balance. “If Dr. Harriss is
going to lose money by the tour,” said one of
the bright-eyed young warblers, “we wish
he’d make up his mind to lose it over our
washing.”
The washing bill hit the Sheffield Choir
in its weakest place. Five pounds is alleged
to be the laundry allowance to the Voices
for their six months’ tour of the All-red
route. The Voices have been rather blue
in consequence. White dresses for every
concert perfoi*mance, and a decent desire
to keep their much-travelled lingerie clean,
give the womenkind a tough riddle to work
out. The average woman would rather go
without a meal a day than wear soiled
linen, and a minor wail of woe arose from
the Sheffield all-white dress in consequence.
“We have to get our things done up
quickly, therefore at the most expensive
laundries. In Canada the prices were very
high, and my washing bill averaged nearly
10s. a week. When you’ve paid 2s. or 2s.
6d. for one white dress, it soon eats a hole
in £2 a month for laundry. Our other inci-
dental expenses are always dribbling away
small change. We’ve had a splendid chance
of seeing the world,” said one of the Voices
in a moment of expansion over a Hawkes-
bury College prize pig, “but I wouldn’t like
to face the washing struggle again.”
Dorothea Baird, who is Mrs. H. B. Irving
in private life, and the sad-eyed Ophelia of
the “Hamlet” cast at Her Majesty’s, talks
cheerily about three acres of land and a
poultry farm. She owns a cottage with
an ancient windmill in its garden—a land-
mark for Thames shipping—and a healthy
stock of Wyandottes and Buff Orpingtons in
its pasture plot. Pink legs, by the way, are
quite as necessary as blue blood in British
pedigree fowl stock. In the U.S. they’d
rather have yellow legs, says Dorothea.
“When the first flowers come out, I get down
to my country cottage, which is near Herne
Bav. where the oysters come from.” Her»
Miss Baird cultivafes prize poultry and rural
health during a long summer holiday each
year.
The 11.. B. Irving family consists of a son
and small daughter of seven. “The boy, who
goes to Wellington School, is old enough to
he a scout, but I think his chief weapon of
warfare just now is a camp oven and some-
thing to cook in it. Then he retires to the
Windmill and vigorously attacks the commis-
sariat department,” muses his mother, who is
tall and shapely of limb. I tried to see the
Trilby foot through substantial English shoe-
leather, but, beyond a fine arched instep, it
gave no hint of the handsome toes that liter-
ally put Dorothea Baird on her theatrical
feet.
The British Poor Law gets some criticism
from Dorothea, who puts her spare moments
into the famous St. Pancras School for
Mothers. Miss Rawson took this school for
a model when she threw her influence into a
scheme for starting a similar academy in
Sydney, to instruct the young, uninformed
mother that a “bit of what his father likes” —
a chew of bacon or a suck at cabbage stalks —
isn’t good growing food for infants. Some-
how, the Mice Rawson School for Mothers
hasn’t got the grip on the public purse it de-
serves to have, and its committee of manage-
ment might shake up the pure milk supply by-
asking Mrs. “Ophelia” Irving to address a
meeting, or otherwise poke up a subject that
is her favorite hobby—after pink-legged poul-
try.
Mrs. (Essie Jenyns) Wood, who is flit-
ting back to England and her Australian hus-
band by the Marmora on July 1, sends you a
photo of herself and her girlie Lyal, and a
line of good-bye greeting. “Kindergarten
work here (Newcastle) prevented my visit
to Bathurst, and the recent weather made it
impossible for me to motor to the Snowy
River, as I had intended. I have set my
household gods in order here, and have had
the place (Jesmond House), which the ‘creep'
had upset, all made good, so that when I re-
turn, in less than two years’ time, all will be
in readiness for a longer stay.” The Nile
and the golden sands and silver-seeking beg-
gars of Egypt will see the J. R. Wood family
during the next English winter fogs.
“The Sydney Club and Depot of Arts and
Domestic Economy” is to have a corroboree
in the King’s Hall on June 29. The Lieut.-
Governor’s wife is to open this exposition
of female toil.
The D.A.D.E., which meekly closes up in
four letters, and springs out as “The Sydney
Club,” etc., is going to hoe a tough hillock.
It means well and deserves support. It
wants to set a high standard of women's
work. Pips in jam will be treated as con-
tempt of court. Herringbone and other
needlework joints will have to sit up and
look nice on fine lingerie. “The Sydney
Club” is going to be patient in well-doing:
it will ask no profit, but will merely take five
per cent, on sales, to pay its rent and gas
bill. It has the experience of the only
failure connected with the Girls’ Realm in
this city—the depot established on similar
lines for the sale of women’s work.
“Get a shop window.” This is the crux
of the sale-of-work problem. The customer
isn’t easily snared upstairs into a back office.
So women’s work that doesn’t meet the
casual eye, and has to be hunted for. like the
Lost Chord, or a missing Coronation gaud,
generally wears out on its peg.
Coronation week in Sydney Suburbia was
brightened by this freely-scattered invitation
in red, white and blue: —
Aid. and Mrs. Thomas Ross present their compli-
ments, and request the pleasure of the company of
at a social in the Town Hall, Waterloo, on
Thursday evening, June 22, 1911, in honor of the
Coronation of King George V.; also the birthday of
their son Thomas, bom June 22, 1896, who is now
in England representing Australia with the Com-
monwealth cadet coronation contingent. Supper by
Sargent’s at 10.30 p.ih. ; and at 1.30 a.m., the exact
time of the Coronation of King George V. Procla-
mation by the Mayor, Aid. J. S. Paxton, a Royal
salute of 21 guns will be fired from the balcony of
the Town Hall, under the direction of Major J. T.
Sheehan.
And precisely at the time mentioned in the
proclamation, 21 rifle shots broke the, beauty
sleep of Waterloo and pierced the bull’s-eye
of loyalty. No arrests have been made.
Ella Caspers seems to be rising triumphant
out of her narrow sea of trouble. Various
Royalties in London—-including Princesses
Christian and Victoria—with other tremen-
dous social guns—Lady Burghclere, for in-
stance —are giving more than their presence
to. Ella’s Voice. The Goulburn contralto is
said to have sent Lady Burghclere into a
state of rapture by her singing at the Little
Theatre, and she promptly secured Ella for
her party—which was spangled with coron-
ets —on May 27.
Mary Gilmore, presswoman and writer ,of
graceful verse, is leaving Casterton to make
her home-nest in Sydney. She has seen life
under other skies, and got varied experi-
ences in Paraguay as a member of the New
Australia colony.
Miss Blackmore. a good-looking blonde,
who comes from Wattamondara, down the
South Coast, where they grow fat cattle and
long coach trips, is going to marry Dr. Sharp,
of Drummoyne, this week. The bride’s
fluffy fairness will be set off with white satin
plumage, veiled in a cloud of Limerick lace.
The late William Kelynack, D.D., once a
prop of the Wesleyan Church in this State,
with a reputation for a special brand of pul-
pit thunder, left an old-fashioned family—
old-fashioned, that is, in size—of four
daughters and seven sons. At intervals, a
Kelynack incites the Voice that Breathed
O'er Eden to murmur at the altar rails.
Two sons have dropped off the single stem
within the past few weeks. The last to go
was Lyndon, who married Miss Annie Alex-
ander, a Queensland girl, on June 20.
There’s only one bachelor left now, dentist
Aubrey, who still blooms alone, with a mere
Club for a protection against the wintry
wind.
The vogue of soft draperies with an il-
lumination of glitter on the bodice is one of
this season’s choicest efforts in female gar-
nishing. Mrs. Kenna, in a creamy gown of
early Athenian build, with a Grecian band
of dull gold embroidery meandering round a
white neck, pulled Fashion by its forelock
the other evening.
Mrs. Beeby. who is a housekeeper with
a solid reputation for good works, is strongly
suspected of having dropped a word or two
into the ear of Minister for Education
Beeby, re his rose-colored mirage of eight
hour shifts for attendant goddesses of’the
grill and broom. Mr. Beeby is said to be.
in consequence, now suffering from a cold
chill so far as his solution of this part of
the Domestic Science problem is concerned.
Yours with a broad nib,
VANDORLAN.
Some definitions: —
Money: What fools spend and bigger fools hoard.
An Optimist: A man who drinks beer through a
straw.
A Pessimist: A man who spends threepence on
beer, and then grieves over the threepence.
Marriage: A bachelor’s excuse for deserting his
-eal mates.
Beer: The sailor’s enemy, the wharf laborer’s
food, and the Wowser's nightmare.
Sympathy: The cheapest thing on earth.
A good fellow: A d—d fool.
A good thing: A bad thing.


»n ■■ ;Jl|) 'I M j . ■ T-7
V's J /&,
r;.,•■• A ;;■&&' /.£«>?■ /
. v V.''ji'* V. ' \V ; v.v • Vir 7 .-■ C?’ * . / :r’
esem
Si®
S2@
#s*
gfi
n
3*&
’H&Ct'l
7
m®
*
-'■•j
£•
?<■
pO?T^
yj
; "-.'v
/
1
|f§
/'• b o - txff*
f.V
!i>
V&
wm
/iV'i
:%
IJ /•;
V-;>
r' V
/ /
£S!
«
>■ C
iSfJ
ym
mil
05?
HS
/'■Hi
mm,
1&£
W/Mi
mm
m.
um/
■'c m
m
'kM
S
m
WA
mtKPi
wl
■• ; - v ti
» ,S
Sllllltf
??4,» •?«•>&««# MX.
MM
Cv»
I
: >_.s
?' * *
8 Uv l
pSlfi
Eft* I
Vi#?
!>; &M.
i-ft
'/
liJStli
ii
illl
fill!
si
Hi&rilltill
rr-.
bim
mimsmm
m
ipsapil
bmmmib
S# y >
l «£*>
iJigg
I
#*
m
mmm
u-m
m&mmm
z S>;-s
mm
MWm
WM
HB
Hfftpl
i®&§k
iimn
: m
SryfS
i
'f|gl
M
m
mammi
fotiji
Ml
•|£
s*«S
IP
m
' ; lIP
-•As;
l-,-.; I”
'bf Iyi& ~ -.' •-!>•. _
7j£}y?b3> 1- >. r x : A ll' r v':- >!<: •:
rS*^SliiBiiß!iSSS
*»>»%
sk**&?
>mm.
mi
»aajs»
i »^3bSSS
l&w
COBRA, 15he Floor Polish, is as
good a s COBRA, Boot Polish.
Chunder Loo,
;fBMX&'A y. ; '
Of Akim Foo.
Down the hall goes
Skat ing too.
Not a scratch
He leaves behind
That a microscope
Could find.;
Smiling always—
Thin and tall,
Swiftly up and down
The hall.
Of his skates
He’s very fond,
And the safe old
Polish-Pond.


BEAUTIFUL FOEM AND FACE.
There is a simple home mixture, the in-
gredients of which may be obtained at any
chemist for a small sum, which will not
only reduce fat rapidly and harmlessly with-
out causing wrinkles, but also purify the
blood and beautify the complexion. Get one
half-ounce of Marmola, one ounce of fluid
extract of Glycyrrhiza 8.P., one ounce of
pure Glycerine 8.P., and Peppermint Water
to make six ounces; mix them together at
home, and take two teaspoonfuls after
meals.*
In order to meet a constantly repeated de-
mand, the above prescription has been con-
densed in the form of a compact and perfect
tablet known as Marmola Prescription Tab-
lets, and those readers who prefer them to
the liquid form can obtain same of any
chemist, 3s. 6d. per box, or post free from
The Marmola Go., 7 Barrack Street, Sydney,
N.S.W.*
SORELLE.
The MISSES CLAPP
will be at 5 GREENKNOWE AVENUE,
POTT’S POINT,' SYDNEY, for two weeks
from JULY 5, and will show their
New Paris Models and Spring Materials.
Appointments by Telephone 168 William Street.
4
I
m
■
PK
\
\\
I
DIJNLOP
RUBBER HEELS
They dive such
Comfort Si Wear.
THERE'S !
SATISFACTION
Obtainable
dt all
Boot
Stores.
e
Only*
"DUNLOP" 1
BRANDS
Dunlop RubberCo-dlbtdtoaN?
I
A
No Vehicle bCompktcl
ft,
*
orllptoDate.
Unless fitted with
DUNtOPKIUT
SOLID-RUBBER
TYRES.
They double the life
of a vehicle—run for
years—absorb all vi-
bration, rattling, and
MAKE DRIVING A
PLEASURE.
Illustrated List on Application.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO,
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane
and Christchurch, NZ
HAYWARD’S
Costumes 8 Riding Habits
are Known All Over Australia.
WRITE OR CALL FOR
CATALOGUE OF NEW FASHIONS.
325 George Street, Sydney
Opp.
Paling's.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, June 26, 1911.
My Dear Yarrie, —
On Coronation night I took the lift to one
of the city’s flat roofs and surveyed the
scattered flares with a disappointed eye. The
Railway Station used a lot of electricity on
its two overtrimmed towers, but produced
no striking result. The Town Hall blazed
at the ratepayers’ expense, and Parliament
House did the taxpayers proud with its out-
lining of white globes; but the business
houses which make great profits by selling
flags and things did not light up worth a
cheer, and the streets and lanes were mostly
dark, cold crevasses. The Law Courts
trimmed their lines and curves with much
bottled lightning, and burnt many six-and-
eightpences artistically. But the most effect-
ive thing, as at Duke of York time, was the
big white cross ourning high on St. Pat’s
tower on Eastern Hill.
The Mayoral ball, on Friday night,
in honor of George Rex, lived up to Mrs.
Rumor’s great expectations. Outside the
Town Hall Thursday’s illuminations and
flags blazed and waved a welcome to the
long line of advancing motors. Indoors,
thousands of Fortunatus roses squandered
their beauty and perfume on pillar and wall,
and a crown with real ermine and velvet
awed the invited multitude.
Gaud Mayor Davey arrived with his mag-
nificent Mayoress, preceded by silk-stock-
inged aldermen. The dress of the hostess
was something to speak of in whispers. It
was black lace over white and silver. The
Gaud Mayor, in spite of all his furs and
chains, was quite overshadowed for the time
being. For the pumpliandle ceremony, they
took up a position on a dais in front of
an acre or so of flowers. Soon afterwards
G.-G. Dudley and one-G. Fuller walked in
with their suites. The G.-G. and the sub-Ex-
cellency were in ordinary evening dress, with
stars and sashes. The Little Countess wore
white and gold, with ropes of pearls and a
pearl-and-diamond coronet. Lady Fuller,
in pale blue satin with silver lace, presented
the tall, graceful figure of a Du Maurier
sketch. The John Madden lady looked pale
and dignified in purple velvet, and the wife
of newly-knighted brother Frank was
covered with black lace. The young Lin-
lithgow Marchioness wore a simple white
frock and some lace of the well-known price-
less brand. She is a dignified girl and
moves about gracefully—an important thing
in an exceptionally tall woman.
The official lancers are always diverting,
and this time the dignified caper had an im-
mense audience. All but the vice-regal
party, who were the performers, were frozen
to attention. Everyone on the floor stared
towards the top of the room, and the wide
balconies were packed tight with more
critics —most of them in poetic frocks. In
the Cold Country, so I am informed, they
dance the lancers in their own way; conse-
quently the newly-arrived Fullers and Lin-
lithgows were often badly puzzled, and
hitches were numerous. It all helped to
make the turn interesting. Mrs. Davey,
with her fair hair in Grecian curls, led
the set with G.-G. Dudley. A quaint ar-
rangement was that the vice-regal party,
danced not only the official set but the rest
of the programme within a roped-off selec-
tion of about six square yards. The result
was that the dais-ies were so cramped for
room that not more than two couples could
gyrate at one and the same time. Some of
the younger spirits must have longed secret-
ly to risk a turn or two in the big paddock
with the citizens; but none of them broke
cover. It was funny to watch the stately
proceedings within the barrier. First Dud-
lev would go round with the Marchioness,
or the Gaud Mayor would revolve with the
Countess. Then they would become specta-
tors or referees, while one of _ the aides
waltzed a knight’s lady around with exquis-
ite care. It was really very good of the
vice-regals to fence themselves off in such a
small selection when they could have post-
and-railed a whole squattage.
Ethel Irving spent her last stage-free
night at this ball, under the wing of Nellie
Veitch, who is an old Fogland friend. Mrs.
Peter Mcßride blazed diamonds from cob-
webby black lace. Mrs. Jack Thompson’s
dress was an exquisite thing of mole-tinted
lace on a clinging satin sheath. She and her
husband arrived late, after helping through
a family party of juveniles. Mining-man
Percy Cook pervaded the hall in a large
way. with Mrs. Cook in a smart black dress.
Jack Baillieu had two Madden maidens in
his care. Leslie Madden chipped a blue out-
line on her white frock. Mrs. Campbell
(Queensland) had silver lizards creeping
about her tunic. Alfred Deakin brought
along a tall, handsome daughter in white.
Mrs. Tallis was in jet. Many of the dresses
were made to show out in the crowd. One
extremist clothed herself in a meagre way
with scarlet satin, and out-blazed the most
gorgeous military man present.
The Mayoral spree caused a deal of con-
fusion by being fixed first for Coronation
night, where it remained fixed until someone
discovered that it would clash with the Cor-
onation dinner at Parliament House. A
procession of minor hops had arranged
themselves behind Davey’s dance, and when
it was moved back there was confusion all
along the line of entertainment.
The absence of Acting-Prime Minister
Hughes from the Dudley and Fuller joint
Coronation levee has raised cyclones, rumors
and other troubles, and W. Hughes’s explan-
ation, that he was ill and forgot to get an-
other Federal Minister to represent the Cab-
inet, lias failed to soothe the feverish “loyal-
ists” to whom form and ceremony are every-
thing.
The real reason the Ministry left the
function severely to the acting head was the
absolute necessity for dressing the part.
Northcote, by the way, was the greatest
stickler for the proper stage management of
levees we have had. On these occasions he
insisted on his Ministers wearing knee-
breeches, silk stockings, and all the rest of
the costume. One of those ex-Cabineteers
now murmurs regretfully that he and his
colleagues had no sooner worn the millinery
tlian they were cast into outer darkness,
and the beautiful things had to be relegated
to the back shelf of the wardrobe. Even the
silk stockings were a dead loss, for they
were far too big for female wear. .
Last week a few military officers splashed
about the outskirts of rain-drenched Mel-
bourne, looking for a decently dry place
whereon to hold a review. They didn-’-t find
it. Albert Park, to the south, was sodden
and partly under water; Royal Park, to the
north, was a quagmire. So it came to pass
that Commander-in-Chief Dudley rode to the
heights of Spring-street and reviewed his
troops there. The army marched to the sal-
uting point through the city, and provided
the citizens with a fine spectacle. Governor
Fuller, in his Yeomanry uniform, accom-
panied the G.-G., who wore a beautifully-
fitting khaki outfit, trimmed with silver em-
broidery.
The Elect occupied seats on the steps of
Parliament House, where there was also a
central pen for Government House visitors
and children. The Dudley Countess and
Lady Fuller, with two top-hats in attend-
ance, remained in the carriage of State —-a
landau embellished with a pair of powdered
footmen, and drawn by four gilt-liarnessed
horses, guided by two gold-and-blue postil-
lions. Out-riders circled about this equipage
like kelpies at a sheep round-up.
The Countess once more appeared in whit-:
garments. This time it was ermine, with an
ermine turban that covered ears, forehead and
hair, and showed up her clear profile nicely.
Lady Fuller was in black, with royal blue
plumes in her hat.
Lord Linlithgow, in a Guardsman’s tight
red uniform, with a weeping plume on the
summit of his helmet, looked rather gloomy.
He was on the dais with the women and chil-
dren. With him was his tall wife, wrapped
in cosy furs ; close at hand were Miss Auntie
Fuller-Phipps and the inevitable three blue-
clad Fuller children.
When every important had been carefully
stowed, the two Governors rode up past the
frowning heights of the surrounding pubs,
and the show began. Of all the gorgeous
mounted attendants, Captain Rome was the
most splendid. I think he is a Hussar. At
any rate, his horse danced with excitement
and turned round so often that I could see
he had a leopard skin for a saddle-cloth, and
that someone had forgotten to cut off the
head and claws. It looked picturesque but
untidy.
Our khaki-clad Light Horsemen, with their
country horses wearing their rough winter
coats, looked just plain, business-like soldiers
ready to take the field —or paddock—at the
usual moment’s notice. The same remark
applies to the infantry. (Please deduct the
horses.) The bluejackets and the naval
cadets were awarded cheers at frequent in-
tervals, and the Scotchmen’s kilts and bag-
pipes were received at every corner with
shouts of welcome.
Melbourne went to church furiously dur-
ing the Coronation flurry. On Thursday,
St. Paul’s was carefully divided up so that
the social sheep and the unsocial goats
should not get boxed. Governor Fuller with
his lady, family and staff took the front
seats, while a military escort clanked into
the transept. They approached to a fanfare
provided by a full-grown herald. Five min-
utes later the Mayor and his Mayoress (the
latter crowned with sable feathers) entered,
and the trumpeter played another selection.
All the new knights and the knights whose
titles are well seasoned occupied the seats irn-
immediately behind. No goats were allowed
in the' pens unless they had tickets. In the
afternoon, when the whole service was re-
peated, any old goat could stray in.
On Sunday, the populace gathered up its
gilt-edged prayer-books, and hurried off
again. St. Pat’s, on Eastern Hill, which is
noted for its music, had the finest feast of
melody for years. Freddie Beard had been
rehearsing the choir for weeks, and, as the
Cathedral was open to all, the place was full
to the doors long before the organ woke up.
The St. Paul’s clerics continued their Sun-
day services in the afternoon at the Town
Hall, and every stop in the big organ was
dragged out. Take it all round, it has been
fiercer than a revival boom.
On Friday night there was a flappers’
dance at St. Mary’s Hall. It was originally
planned to follow the Gaud Mayor’s hop,
and so ensure the attendance of some im-
portant people; but the alteration of the
Mayoral dates spoilt the hospitable plot.
However, some of the Gaud Mayor’s guests
helped to start the small ball rolling before
they went on to the big function. Jack Thomp-
son’s little sister was one of the hostesses ;
Miss Morrison, who also belongs to the
woolly clan of Robertson, was another.
Other hostesses were Misses Boroughman.
Gladys Cross and Greta Laidlaw. The
youngsters had the jolliest dance of the sea-
son. There were even men-wallflowers!
Major-General Hoad has been far too sick
to take any part in the Coronation fuss;
and now he has the added indignity of a
knighthood to carry. He is out of hospital
and on the mend; but it is a slow process,
and the awful weather doesn’t assist him.
He has taken a place called The Rest, in
Queen’s-road, and when the sun looks out
from between the rain-clouds, he pursues it
as far as the broad verandah.
Lady Dudley won some mixed applause
by her farewell speech to the Mothers’
Union. It was an eloquent appeal to keep
the children more at home—“round the
hearth,” was the speaker’s way of putting
it. Mothers, however, protest that this isn’t
ioggy England, and that, during the greater
part of the year, the hearth has very little
attraction for anyone in this country, where
a good soda fountain or ice-cream machine
is a better draw.
More ceremony and tea at State Parlia-
ment House for the opening on Wednesday,
July 5. The programme of the average
feminine will probably run this way : Scamp
lunch; rush dressing; hustle for a front
seat in the gallery ; wait patiently for a cold
hour or two; watch a brief quarter-of-an-
hour ceremony; scamper for tea in the cor-
ridor. These icy days the average woman
would rather have a hot cup of tea than a
diamond tiara.
A much-advertised Italian “grand opera
concert” happened at the Town Hall on
Saturday evening. The artists responsible
were Miss A. Maria Vassallo (soprano) and
Giuseppe Scarcella (tenor). Mr. Ezio Kost
looked after the accompaniments and waved
a stick at an orchestra of 16, led by Ernest
Toy. Tenor Scarcella proved to be the
brightest star of the little co. His voice is
good in the upper register, but he is not so
happy when the tune ambles down into the
cellar. He has plenty of animation and a
cheerful twinkle in his eye, so the house said
“Good boy—come back !” several times dur-
ing the evening. Maria Vassallo has big.
black, languishing eyes and a fine figure, well
set off by a dream of absinthe colored ninon,
veiling a cloth-of-gold sheath. Red, white and
blue ribbons made, with the Italian red, white
and green, a striking shoulder knot, and gold
slippers gave the finishing touch. Her voice
was hardly so satisfactory as her gowning.
The Town Hall held all the Best People who
had recovered sufficiently from the fag of the
Mayor’s spree of the night before.
The Coronation embellishment of a Mel-
bourne sausage-shop window consisted of
a pair of flags, with the motto, “Honi aoit
qui mol y pense.” It looked very like a dig-
nified protest on behalf of the bags of mys-
tery. A man back from Sydney, whither he
flew for two days’ warm sun, reports a simi-
lar double-barrelled effort in Pitt-street. The
S. M. Herald premises blazed with “G.R.,”
which it was understood meant “Granny Re-
joices,” as well as the other thing. But he
was shocked, as he was stepping into his
train, to read over a theatre —
“G. R.”
“Driving a Girl to Destruction.”
It must have been in order to get to London.
Here, at home, we behaved ourselves quite
decently, and didn’t Maffick worth tuppence.
One of the most impressive sights at
Mayor Davey’s little social was the Chinese
Consul. He was accompanied by his wife
and secretary, and the trio were in national
dress. The costumes of the great man and
his official shadow seemed to be exactly
similar, excepting that the secretary, being
thinner than his chief, had an immense
pleat in the back of his rich, silk tunic.
Both wore dome-shaped caps of scarlet sur-
mounted with crystal knobs, and their
pleated petticoats flapped above cloth boots.
Mrs. Consul set off her ivory complexion in
an exquisite sky-blue tunic worked with
silver dragons, and carried her fans and
handkerchief in her tiny hand, the finger-
nails whereof were long and wonderfully
manicured.
The Glaciarium, after having been dedi-
cated for months to Taits’ Pictures, and for
weeks to Sousa’s Band, is about to resume
its annual winter flooring and give ice skaters
a local habitation and a name. The Glassy-
Haremites start to glide again on Saturday,
and will hold the floor until September 30, or
thereabouts. “Professor” Langley has been
visiting ice-rinks abroad on behalf of the
management, and is bursting with new
ideas.
The money there is in chiffons and fluff I
They have finished counting draper Tread-
wav’s little savings (and he wasn’t a frugal
man by any means), and they make the
total £158,037.
Rupert Clarke is understood to be booked
for return to this city early in November,
probably in time for the Cup. His copper-
haired lady reports joyous jauntings which
have kept her too busy to write, except on
postcards. She reached the summit of delight
at Monte Carlo, where presumably she had
a successful little flutter at the tables.
Ernest Clarke, who must have more than
a little of the native restlessness whereof
brother Rupert has been boasting to the
Cockney interviewer, rushed away to Syd-
ney last week —“just to get warm,” he said.
Quite lately he rented a house in South
Yarra for a year, and furnished it with
domiciliary intentions, although he has a fine
place of his own down at Melton, and a con-
firmed bachelor can do very nicely with one
house at a time. But the Melbourne
weather chilled Ernest’s enthusiasm for his
new Melbourne establishment; so he sublet
the house to Dr. Felix Meyer, and put the
furniture in an auctioneer’s hands to be
hammered away to highest bidders.
From my Adelaide correspondent:—
Under the Bosanquet regime the youthful are
asked to dances, the mature to receptions. Some-
times the elders (who are not always so old) cavil;
but the system is generally approved.
The Coronation dance was on Tuesday. The re-
ception, which transpired on Thursday, was a repeti-
tion of the frivol precedent, except for the fact that
folks talked instead of danced, and good-byes were
said at something after 11 instead of something after
two. The interregnum between the departure of
the Le Huntes and the arrival of the Bosanquets was
marked by a freshening of some vice-regal furnish-
ings, and the long line of rooms looks best at
night. The rumor that Torrens Park was to be Gov-
ernment House for the future seems to be dying a
natural death—at which we rejoice. It would come
hard to trail to the limits of suburbia when we’ve
been used to having vice-regality at our front door.
Thursday was a strenuous day for “officials.” The
Coronation service at the Anglican Cathedral waa
lengthy, gorgeous, and in spots impressive. An en-
terprising cinematographer was ready for the proces-
sion of clergy and scattered soldiers and sailors as
they came out. Next week the crowd will rush the
show to see itself immortalised.
In the afternoon officialdom attended another
special service (United Methodist), and in the even-
ing there were fireworks and the aforementioned re-
ception. The fireworks were good, but would have
been better if some of the set pieces had not been
entirely obscured by their own smoke.
In town the decorations were meagre. The Reg-
ister and Advertiser people spread themselves some-
what, and so did a few hotels and the men’s clubs.
But the rest was darkness for the most part. A
leading drapery establishment snorted two crowns
—quite as large as threepenny-bits. The display of
bunting was not better. One solitary flag lop-sideclly
graced one public building, and the trams dasgtea
two small pennants from each pole—hung so mat
they resembled nothing so much as highly-coiorea
bathing pants. . ,
Acting-Mayor Bonython gave his contribution to
the local junketings on Wednesday. Electric ngnts,
asparagus fern and a general preponderance of royal
scarlet made the Exhibition less hideously barn-liKe
than usual. Roses, sweet-pea and carnations blazea
everywhere, and the lights were masked in soft
draping. Their acting-Worships “received for
almost an hour, at which stage the arrival of tne
Governor put a period to their bowings. By the
way, guests were asked for 7.30. Is this a delicate
compliment to the fact that the Buckingham Palace
clocks have been set back an hour as far as enter-
tainments go? .
A children’s pageant occurred in the Exhibition
on Friday night. The mayoral decorations of Wed-
nesday had been left, and the effect of small gold
and white figures, decked in fairy dresses and gauzy
wings, flitting among the red blur of the decora-
tions, was excellent. The youngsters were wonder-
fully self-possessed and part-perfect, and went through
the most intricate marches faultlessly. Hugo Leschen
was responsible for a march, and Miss Young and
Miss Shaw for some special dances.
Sincerely yours,
JOHANNA.


f
wmm
: / /
;
S
' :
S V.
'
■llll
I.
0 #
>i <■ ;' v
1111
*;;; ; ;.yfe
. -J
ssi
llStlfl
I
i
li
S
v * ' ’ *
ll«w
:
Hi
mm
: ‘t ■
•sisgssiissi
V - '
:. i •:<*
ligiM
.
a
■
r
k.
J
*
► *4 H *
f§
339
DEWARS
‘IMPERIAL’
WHISKY


Many are Good
m
% /,
3BBB wim
Pi
Ssj;®
tt
w
m&m
w.
WMWm m
mmmm
HHi H -a *"*
uu
m
©
Q
WATSONS
No. 10
is best!
Join the Army
Of those who have tested the wonderful remedial
virtues of Dr. Sheldon’s Magnetic Liniment. It gives
speedy relief whenever applied to a burn, blister,
bruise, or a pain or sore of any nature. l’rice,
Is. 6d. and 3s.*
A TONIC TO
CURE INDIGESTION.
Treatment That Has Given
Good Results in Many
Cases*
Persons with weak stomachs who suffer
from Indigestion need a tonic that has no
laxative action. Purgatives may help to
move a meal along, but they weaken. What
the stomach needs is strength to digest . or-
dinary food. Now Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills
are a tonic without any laxative action
whatever. Their mission is to make
strength,. and experience has shown that
they have cured many severe cases of In-
digestion. The following typical case shows
how good they are.
“Bit by bit I was attacked by Indiges-
tion,” said Mrs. Jane Smith, 66 Regent
Street, Richmond, Melbourne. ‘‘First I no-
ticed that my appetite was falling off, and
at last 1 could hardly look at the meal
table. Often I could not keep down what I
"forced myself' to take, and I would have
bilious retching and feel as sick as could be.
As sure as 1 took a bite of anything 1
would get a lump iii my chest,- and I would
feel sore and tender inside right to my shoul-
der blades. My stomach would swell out
With wind,. so that I would be most dis-
tressed. I always had a nasty taste in my
mouth, and such a thick coating on my
tongue. 1 had no energy left, and I would
feel sleepy all day; yet at night the least
noise would waken me. Violent sick head-
aches would set in. All the top of my head
would ache, and then the pain would spread
down to my eyes. I dare not stoop at these
times : for. everything would go black for a
space. For a couple of days perhaps these
headaches would cOme on, and many a day 1
could not cook the dinner; I. would haVe to
go and lie down. My heart would beat vio-
lently. and I would feel quite faint, but I
started Dr. Williams’. Pink Pills, add' they
eased off all the symptoms. Before I started
them I used to be as sallow and pasty as
could be, but iny color began to get healthy
as my appetite improved. Now I can eat
anything I fancy, and feel brisk and ener-
getic, thanks to this remedy.”
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are sold by
chemists and storekeepers, or sent by mail,
post paid on receipt of price, 2s_. 9d. per box.
rsix boxes 15s. 3d., by the Dr. Williams Medi-
cine Co. of Australasia, Ltd., Sydney.
«
msm
Science af-
fords the ne-
cessary sup-
port and pro-
tection only
in such a
well-con-
structed ex-
actly - fitting
Truss as Den-
yer’s Special
Elastic Truss
OCNYER
©
■■ ■■ ■■ ; • - ■:
Single, 17/6;
Double, 22/6
Call or write.,
Perfectly comfortable. Made to individual size.
DENYER BROS., Truss & Abdominal Belt Makers,
281 GEORGE ST. (opp. Hunter St.), SYDNEY ; and
corner Swanston & Lonsdale Streets^Melbourne^
POLITICAL
POINTS
The cable in the daily papers says that
louseph Ward is now a baronet. This is
evidently a misprint for borrow-net.
In England they seem to have got the
right measure of the Australian State Pre-
mier, now that there is a Commonwealth
Government. In the distribution of Coron-
ation “honors” the whole crowd of them
panned out just one G.M.G. Frank Wilson,
the Westralian, got the terrific gaud that
goes mostly to small mayors and second-
class clerks—the gaud that a small Sydney
suburban Bung was wearing when The
Bulletin last looked up the directory.
It is Hobart now that is getting an idea
of the sort of ass a State or a town is which
gives Private Enterprise the right to supply
it with a public necessary. Twenty years
ago Hobart gave a tramway co. the right
to the streets of the city for ever. Now the
City Council asks the co. what it will take
to go out, and the co. says £800,000! The
local aldermen are alleged to have been
struck breathless by the size of the demand,
and only recovered sufficient composure to
talk business when the co. knocked a trifle
of £50,000 off that sum. But the tram co.
doesn’t worry, because the Act says that the
arbitrators must take into consideration the
present and prospective value. Yet as the
co. hasn’t got the right to run tramways
along all the streets, while the Government
or the City Council has, the cheapest method
of settling the business may be to let the
co. keep its tramways for ever. And ever.
The poisonous serpent of Socialism has
got its fangs into the South Melbourne
municipal system. One of the councillors
is moving:—
That in view of a company being- formed to con-
trol the milk trade in the metropolitan area, this
council approach the Government, and ask for the
necessary legislation to enable this council to buy
out and control the milk trade in South Melbourne.
It is good as far as it goes, though the busi-
ness never will be quite satisfactory until a
Greater Melbourne council can thoroughly
control production as well as distribution.
And if, by “buying out” the local trade, the
S. Melbourne councillor means to buy out
the whole paraphernalia, then it is going to
load itself with a vast quantity of unneces-
sary implements; and the council is no
more called on to do that than the Govern-
ment is to buy up the bullock-waggons when
it builds a new railway.
The Bendigo East (Vic.) by-election
threw a shadow on the path of Weary and
Watt, as they plod to the general elections,
due at the end of the year. Though Willie
Watt went up specially to persuade the Inde-
pendent Liberal to retire, and give Curnow
a straight-out battle against Laborite Hamp-
son, tlie latter beat Curnow handsomely,
scoring four out of every seven votes polled,
and winning by more than double the ma-
jority the late T. Glass scored over W. A.
Hamilton. Hampson, who was born at
Bendigo 48 years ago, deserves his seat; for
he has six times carried the Labor flag. At
the first Senate election, he and J. G. Bar-
rett (then Trades Hall Sec.) and Stephen
Barker (now Senator) were the Labor can-
didates.
The conference of municipal delegates
called by Lssendon made a poor start when
it rejected Oollingwood’s proposal to ask for
a convention to draft a constitution for a
Greater Melbourne Council, and decided in-
stead to try to create a sort of Board to ad-
minister the tramwavs, sewerage, lighting,
water supply, ana fire extinction services.
That idea presumes the existence of one body
to control general public utilities, while the
28 mostly unnecessary councils, with their
town halls, offices and overdrafts, still con-
tinue their expensive business of looking
after the gutters and sweeping the back
lanes, and squabbling over the dead dog that
lies athwart the boundary. The Greater
Melbourne idea is too big for these Bumbles.
EVEN TN THOSE DA VS.
RIGHT-THINGKING ISRAELITE : “I tells you, Mister SiWerstein , vol Judea ish sufferin'
from ish dis curse of ofer-legislation , and’t it?"
The average sharebroker has come to be
regarded as an utterer of.dismal prophecies
concerning the departure of capital. It is,
therefore, a shock to find'one of the most
ancient and Tory of the tribe —-the Pal met
firm, of Sydney—remarking in its monthly
circular that “if it be true, as alleged, that
money is being withdrawn, from Australia
by capitalists and financial companies
abroad, it is a matter of great satisfaction .”
In support, it recalls the great truth that
“it was excessive importations of English'
and Scotch capital that brought about out
great financial crisis of 1893.” To _ be
strictly accurate, it was the importations
that caused the boom; it was the sudden
demand made by J. Bull and J. Me Bull for
repayment that caused the smash. The per-
son who talks the usual tripe about “en-
couraging the investment of capital” forgets,
19 times, out of 20, that what that really
means is the accumulation of debt, with the
collector liable to call in at any moment for
a settlement. And the man or the country
is mighty lucky if the collector drops in, as
at present, when there is plenty' of money
about. Usually he does it when the purse
is empty and the cupboard bare.
The Victorian Closer Settlement Board
is to have the official ruler across its
knuckles. Some time ago the Board sold
to its secretary’s wife a homestead block on
the Tooronga estate; and, as some people
thought they smelt something, a row was
made bv a few of them who had an idea
that the* actions of the Board should be above
suspicion. The Cabinet cloesn t saj that it
has smelt anything, but it: has, anyhow can-
celled the sale, authorised Willie Watt to
use the ruler as before mentioned, and inti-
mated that it is going to pass a Bill to stop
any officer, valuer, or other person em-
ployed bv the Board from having any trans-
action with the Board except with the Min-
ister’s special permission.
Attorney-General Findlay (M.L.), while
on his way to the Coronation, passed through
the United States and made inquiries into
Taft’s proposals for a peace partnership with
Britain. His conclusions belong to the old
reliable yes-no persuasion. One thing, how-
ever, is clear, he says:
The Americans are, and will be, wholly on the side
of peace. They hate the aggressive military spirit
of the Germans, and believe that our Empire stands
for peace. But this is a long wag from feeling in-
clined to join vs in any struggle to maintain peace.
So, if Britain is cajoled, shoved, or dragged
into war, it will have to fight with its back
to its own coast; and in that case Australia
will also have to battle for herself, and
Maoriland’s safety will depend on the speed
with which its Dreadnought can steam into
the disturbance from the China Seas.
N.S.W. Water and Sewerage Board has
decided to throw over the private contrac-
tor from July i. and go in for a- year’s trial
of whole-hog day-labor. This is done oh the
recommendation of the engineer-in-chief,-who
reported that better results had been ob-
tained with day-labor,i as fat .as it, had been
tried, than with contractors' the lattei* hav-
ing been thrown into a hopeless state of
muddle by the demand for rapid extensions.
The S. Aus. Labor Government, having
done great things for the local farmer by
establishing an export trade in frozen lambs
and other produce, is now doing something
else to sap his manly independence. To en-
courage him to improve the breed of his
horse-stock, it is inciting him to form,soci-
eties—mainly to secure better (sirqs—affd
offers him £2 for every £1 he will put dp
for the purpose. According to all the rules
of the game, Anti-Sosh ought to throw clods
at the scheme, and the National Ass. should
bray at it in 11 keys and 15 semibreves; but
Anti-Sosh is suddenly stricken blind, and
the Ass. is as dumb as Balaam’s beast.
The Argus has made the shocking dis-
covery of “a difficulty tlm t may be a serious
interference to closer settlement.” It seems
a squatter sold the Vic. Government an es-
tate, to be delivered in November next; and,
as the; land tax for 12 months is now pay-
able, the squatter wants the State to give
him back seven-twelfths of the tax. And
that’s the difficulty that threatens to kill
closer settlement in the bloom of its youth!
As the Argus knows, the same’thing has at-
tacked dog-dealing and killed it dead. The
owner of a dog has to pay an annual regis-
tration fee; and having paid the shilling or
two in June, of course he wouldn’t dream
of selling the hound in December, no matter
how much was offered for it. In the
interests of the brisk sale of poodles, in
which it is understood some of the Argus
people are interested, the dear old
journal ought clearly to start a campaign
for the abolition of this monstrous hound
tax.
Though Westralia is yelling at the top
of its voice for population, its public hos-
pital rules still do their little bit to discour-
age motherhood among the poor. A woman
may not enter a hospital for the purpose of
giving Australia a little inhabitant except-
ing where there is a maternity block, and
there is only one such block, and that one is
at Perth. On the other hand, the hospitals
are wide open to the lady who wrecks her
health by practices of quite another char-
acter.
THE DILATORY DEBACLE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Capital will be driven out.” —Tory remark re
land tax.
“Depreciation and ruin will follow.” —Ditto re
Australian notes.
“Industry will be destroyed.”— ldem, re minimum
wage.
Etc., etc.
A horrible catastrophe is coming—later on :
We are going to be ruined —-by and bye ;
So pack your old portmanteau, and prepare to
get you gone
Before the sun turns bloody in the sky.
There’s Anguish round the corner, and there’s Dread
behind the door,
And Ruin’s hiding underneath the bed;
Calamity is steaming to this Socialistic shore —-
But the old hulk never steams full speed ahead !
In the Argus every morning, hear the prophet howl
dismayed:
He smells the coming thunder in the air ;
And his viscera are churning with the terror of the
blade,
For he sees its horror gleaming everywhere.
Society will perish, and the pubs will all be closed,
And men obese in misery will fall;
Such fearful devastation he has daily diagnosed—
But Ruin never answers to his call!
I’m prepared for the debacle (though 1 can’t pro-
nounce it right)
When tumult and insolvency shall reign ;
I’ve put my money in my socks, and always ask at
night
To be called in time to catch the early train.
I’ve planted all my manuscripts where nobody will
dig,
And taken pains to wear my extra shirt;
And in suspense I ask myself, with anger growing
big,
Why don’t this d—d disaster make a spurt?
For fellows seem to flourish, and the country seems
to hum,
And I don’t observe my landlord looking blue,
Yet 1 shiver at the warnings of the prophets grim
and glum,
For I know they wouldn’t tell me what’s untrue.
Damnation is descending with a red and ruthless face
To spifflicate us with a single blow ;
And I’m sitting waiting for it, but it has the
slowest pace
0f any old catastrophe I know.
VICTORIA.
B.
THE LIES HAVE IT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We have the recent testimony of Lord Rosebery
(an accomplished politician) that general elections
cannot be conducted in a Palace of Truth. — Argus.
The loud, accomplished liar rose before the listen-
ing throng,
To show that his own’crowd was right and all the
others wrong.
He told the truth in parts, of course, and when the
truth was not
The thing, with straight untruths or semi-truths
he touched the spot.
And when he lied the audience howled, and cheered
him in the act,
And dear old ladies clapped, and cried “Quite
right!” and “That’s a fact!”
“It is the truth!” he roared, and Ananiased «is lie
spoke; ' ;.
And at his lying words the cheering once again
awoke. -
With simple tarradiddles did he hold his hearers
fast — , v ' -
\, ith pretty libels did he do his lying best to blast
His enemies; and every good, genteel Cats’-Leaguei*
there 1
Bounced up and down with joy upon her dumb, pro-
testing chair.
The champion of dishonor, with his hand upon hitj
heart, • • ;■
Stood boldly there and begged the crowd to choose
the better part—
The part of lies and treachery, bull-dozing, cheap
deceit; , ,
Of smart, dishonest tricks and slanders poisonous
but neat.
And strange old men, with whiskers trimmed like
lean pork-chops, hoorayed,
And backed the speaker’s preaching with the joyfdl
noise they made.
The loud, stout, Tory liar brimmed with whoppers,
large and choice ;
False witness did he bear in quite a gentlemanly
voice ;
And innocence and whiskers, and “No” brains and
Proper Thought,
Sat there and hearkened gladly to the things the
liar taught.
Oh, when he sat down, grinning, what a great ap-
plausive shput
Arose — a mighty cackle at the Plain Truth, down
, and out!
VICTORIA.
FRANK HENTY.


THE WONDERFUL
AUTO-PIANO.
THE ONLY PERFECT PLAYER. PIANO.
Closed as an ordinary Plano.
Open as a Player Piano.
The Player-Piano that is “Different.”
We sell on the Easiest Possible Terms.
Foil value allowed for your ordinary Piano.
NICHOLSON 8 CO. LIMITED
SYDNEY, NEWCASTLE, ORANGE,
TOOWOOMBA and WARWICK.
PATHE
FRERES
51-53
RATHE
FRERES
i
ARE THE NUMBERS
... OF ...
Our NEW PREMISES in
ELIZABETH STREET,
WHERE WE INVITE YOU
TO CALL AND SEE
The Finest Stock of
Films & Cinematograph
Outfits in the World.
PATHE FRERES
AUSTRALIA,
SYDNEY BRANCH.
I
m
-
S:
FARMER’S
£3/3/- Suits
FOR
£2|l6|9
NET CASH
During the Cash
BONUS SALE.
THII fame, of Farmer’s Suits to Measure is widely known.
Perfect workmanship and splendid wear, combined with the most
fashionable and shapely cut, are embodied in every one of them.
Every ,£3/3/- Suit is cut by our expert Tailors, and made in our Pitt
Street workrooms.
Ihe choice of fabrics is a wide one; embracing the smartest of
English, Scotch and Irish Tweeds ; also a good range of Marrickville
Tweeds.
But the Great Golden Opportunity to secure a 10 per cent. Bonus on
a Suit from Farmer’s is yours until July 15 only.
PATTERNS, TAPE AND MEASUREMENT FORMS
SENT TO COUNTRY AND INTER-STATE PATRONS
POST FREE ON REQUEST.
FARMER’S, Sydney
ACMAR
Sheep-branding Fluid
that lasts From shearing
to shearing.
Yer comes out completely
in the scouring of the wool
OOES NOT MAT THE FLEECE
Vacuum Oil Company Propty. Ltd.
Throughout the Commonwealrh
and New Zealand.
7
A


ROWLAND’S
KALYDOR
FIR«SiII
Produces soft, fair, delicate skin, heals all
cutaneous eruptions, and insures a lovely
delicate complexion to all who use it.
2/3, 4/6, of Stores and Chemists.
Rexona.
The Rapid Healer is an Ointment which heals with
remarkable rapidity. Unlike the old-fashioned oint-
ments, which are very slow in their action, Rexona
speedily relieves after a very few applications. Sold
in triangular pots at Is. 6d. and 3s.*
LAME BACK.
This ailment is usually caused by rheumatism of
the muscles, and may be cured by applying Cham-
berlain’s Pain Balm two or three times a day and
rubbing the part vigorously at each application. If
this does not afford relief, bind on a piece of flannel
dampened with Chamberlain’s Pain Balm, and relief
is sure to follow.*
GREEN OLD AGE.
AN ELDERLY COUPLE, BOTH OVER
80 YEARS OF AGE, PRAISE DR.
MORSE’S INDIAN ROOT PILLS.
Growing old ought not to mean growing
weak and feeble. It does not mean weak-
sd
fsd
ness or feebleness
for those who eat
with a good appe-
tite and sound di-
gestion. It is
therefore of the
utmost import-
ance that old peo-
ple should retain
the power to di-
gest and assimi-
late food, which is
the sole source of
physical strength.
To those in de-
clining years who
find that Nature
responds less
readily to the de-
mands made uoon
her, and who
need a mild yet
searching remedy
to keep their sys-
tem in proper
working order,
there is nothing like Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills.
Mr. Boswell at 82 years of age, and his
wife at 81, testify to the great benefit de-
rived from Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills.
“I have been a resident of Mudgee for 52
years,” states Mr. R. Boswell, Gladstone-
street, Mudgee, N.S.W. “About 10 years
ago my health began to fail me, and I suf-
fered very much from a sluggish liver and
palpitation of the heart; the attacks would
come on me so sudden that I would fall help-
less to the ground. I often fell asleep when
having my meals; nothing that I could do
would keep me awake. I constantly had a
nasty taste in my mouth, and a thick coat-
ing on my tongue. I tried many medicines,
but it was not until I had tried a bottle of
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills that I got
relief. The attacks of palpitation were con-
siderablv less, and in a few weeks I was
perfectly cured. It is marvellous how your
Pills have restored me to health, especiallv
at my extreme old age, and it is wonderful
the vitality I possess. My wife, too, has
had great relief from their use, and we
always have a bottle of them in the house.”
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE . NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents—RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH. KALCOOBUE and COOLCARDIE.
Brewery and Offices :
Dowling Street, REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
W ith the Grand Nationals in near view
all performances over the sticks are being examined
with ulterior motives. At Caulfield the other Satur-
day it was remarked that, whereas Confide opened at
5 to 2 for the Wanda Steeplechase, he was presently
knocked back to 8 to 1. In the race Confide ran
nowhere until the end was near, and then came
with a run which placed him second to Squirm.
If the latter has an apparently good chance for the
G. N. Steeplechase at Flemington, there must be a
big show for Confide. Meanwhile there is a warning
for punters in the fate of Corntax, the early favorite
for the G. N. Steeple, who smashed his stifle in the
race aforesaid, and was slain by a veterinarv on the
course.
Obi, victorious in the two big hurdle
events at Flemington in 1910, has re-established his
reputation for speed by winning a £5OO race on the
flat at Caulfield. He carried 7st. 31b. in moderate
company, but his workmanlike way of doing the
trick indicated that his poor form on the flat at last
V.R.C. Autumn Meeting was all wrong. Obi, as a
five-year-old, should be now at his best, and his
weight for the G. N. Hurdle (list. 51b.) is onlv
71b. more than he carried in one of his brilliant vic-
tories last year. If he gets safely round the course,
Obi will worry the smartest of the light-weights.
* * * *
Of the prizes iu Tatt.’s consultation on the
Winter Stakes, Maoriland got first (£3750), Vic-
toria second (£1250), and N.S.W. third (£750).
The consultation closed at 75,000 ss. tickets. So, in
spite of the embargo, there are evidently ample
facilities for communicating with the Tasmanian
lottery runners.
The “flats” who grease the fatted bookie
got their annual breakfast of weights for the Mel-
bourne and Caulfield Cups and Epsom and Metrop.
handicaps on Monday. Ikey Noses looks on gleefully
at the attempt to pick one prad out of nearly 200
which may live long enough to win an event months
ahead.
* * * *
At the big jumping meeting in Auckland
(M.L.) over £70,000 was put through the tote in
three days, nearly £30,000 more than last year,
when Patrick O’Moses was allowed to bellow. One
winner paid over £7O, another over £4O; and on
the second day not one favorite got home. And as
Auckland pocketed the coin it wondered how much
P. O’Moses would have offered if he had been the
betting machine.
* * * *
Saturday’s League match, at Sydney Ag-
ricultural Ground, was a vast improvement on the
first one, though the Maorilanders were still raw, and
lacked cohesion. They are game, and fast (some of
them) and good. But the cohesion which comes of
playing together is not among them —as yet. Satur-
day’s game was, nevertheless, a brilliant one to
watch, being fast, clever and strenuous. One daily
paper man summed it up: “N.S.W. players made no
mistakes; Maoriland’s reps, made a number.” And
that is the whole position—except that N.S.W. won
by 26 to 10. Another thing: the Maoriland team has
undoubtedly got a tail, and the N.S.W. team on Sat-
urday was the full-fledged frog. Saturday’s game
was a case of forwards mostly, although occasionally
the backs got in some work. At the beginning the
Maorilanders more than held their own; but combi-
nation must tell, and the result was inevitable. When
they return from playing the five matches up north,
they will be a very much more formidable crowd.
But it will be a mistake to expect too much from
them. Never before did a team from Maoriland
bump such opposition as this one has in N.S.W., and
the people who compare the doings of this team with
others from Maoriland forget that never before was
N.S.W. football of such high quality.
The Rugby League in Sydney is already
on velvet over its Maoriland speculation. The two
matches played have been witnessed by 74,000 people,
who have paid £3770 to see the fun. This for the
first two matches! What will the harvest be?
* * * *
If stoical disregard of the juggernaut that
has just passed over it counts for anything, Union
Rugby in Sydney should pull through. On Saturday
last, at Sydney Cricket Ground, Newtown and South
Sydney pursued the drab and impecunious tenor of
their way with all the grace and enthusiasm possible.
Were they cast down by the roaring applause that
soared over the fence from the 50,000 people in the
Agricultural Ground who were watching the trium-
phant rebels roll in gold? Not a bit. Each team
stuck its chest out, and played as though 100,000
people had paid a sovereign apiece to look on. Pos-
sibly the popular taste may change, but at present
it doesn’t look like it.
South Sydney was no match on Saturday for the
premier team; excepting that the Southerners got the
ball from the scrum the better of the two, they were
simply overwhelmed in every department. The figures
were 36 to 8, which is hideous in the Union game.
Balmain got trodden on by University, but it made
a better stand than most people expected, and man-
aged to kick up 6 points to the victors’ 10. The
amazing thing about the visit of Eastern Suburbs to
North Sydney was that there were 1000 people to
watch the meeting. North Sydney is patriotic—
parochially. It was a mighty close game too, East
winning by 19 to 17; from which it is evident
that there was plenty of excitement. A fast-scoring
game on both sides is always interesting to watch.
Manly crushed St. George by 20 points to 11, and
Western Suburbs rolled up the once formidable Glebe
by 11 to 5.
The position in the Competition is unchanged, and
University is still on top, leading Western Suburbs
and Manly by 14 to 13. Newtown, premier club
last season, is the last on the list with double
figures, having 12. After that begins the realm of
despair.
In the Australian League section Sydney
is on top with a margin of one win (4 points) over
Y.M.C.A., the former having won 8 to the latter’s
7 (32 to 28). East Sydney and Newtown, having
each a draw to its credit, are close enough to be
dangerous, with 26 each. North Sydney and Pad-
dington are out of it with only 12 each, South Syd-
ney is further out still with 8, and the Training Col-
lege is beyond the bounds of possibility with every
match lost and 36 points less than nothing.
They say that several teams in Sydney found them-
selves short of men on Saturday, and that quite a
number of intending players developed infirmities at
an awkwardly late hour, but still not too late to
allow substitutes to be run in early. And they do
also say that a committee of investigation is to be
appointed to find out if any of these sick gentry tried
the effect of the sunlight at the big Rugby League
match at the Agricultural Ground. If they did,
there’s going to be trouble —trouble which nothing
but a sheaf of medical certificates will stop.
The Union competitions will be sus-
pended the next two weeks while a Maoriland Uni-
versity team lures a little lucre into the till.
The Sydney ’Varsity will absorb one week and a
N.S.W. team will grip the other. The Union has
profited by last year’s object lesson, and the counter-
show of the Rugby League will be evaded as studi-
ously as a rum-drunk derelict surrounded by a halo
of raw onions.
With the wisdom of the early bird, the
Vic. League ordered two of its five matches to be
advanced from Saturday to Coronation Thursday,
and the anticipated worms arrived to the num-
ber of 20,000 at the ’Wood-Riehmond imbroglio, and
there were nearly as many at the ’Roy-Melbourne
collision. Both episodes speedily resolved themselves
into studies in mud, and the expected winners duly
arrived in both cases without distressing themselves—
’Wood with 50 points to Richmond’s 30, and ’Rov
with 65 to Melbourne’s 35. On Saturday Essendon
and Carlton, who had played a draw on the first day
of the season, returned to the argument, on the lat-
ter’s ground, and a mighty battle ensued. Stiff
breezes ha'd dried the ground; and the shivering
30,000 knew that those breezes came straight from
the Pole. Playing a cleaner and faster game, the
’Dons went off with the lead, and held it till the
last interval; scores, ’Don 38, Carlton 26. After
that the Old Blues got going and wiped out the
dozen points deficit. The tired ’Dons pulled them-
selves together for a last effort and notched a behind.
Little though it was, it meant victory. So the locals
made another rush and levelled the scores once
more. Then the Carlton captain called the backs
from their places and rushed them on to the ball,
and twice forced it by superior numbers through the
goal. Scores: Carlton 52 points, ’Don 40. The
other League games were merely matters of form,
South jumping on ’Varsity by 67 to 29, and Geelong
on St. Kilda by 55 to 40.
TOM
REECE ,
one of
England's
champion
billiard-
ists, at
present
playing
Lindrum
16,000
tip in
Sydney.
The main Ass. scuffle concerned P’ran
and Essendon, the former having but one defeat to
its name, and the latter none at all. An over-eager
struggle ensued, neither side getting 2 points away
from the other till half-time. Then ’Fran lost a man,
with injuries to his ribs that will keep him a looker-
on for the rest of the season, and the disaster moved
it to such energy that at the last change it owned
47 points to ’Don’s 18. Then, with the wind, the lat-
ter crowded on all sail, which brought victory to the
attackers —48 points to P’ran’s 47. The only other
Ass. happening of note was the further upheaval of
Northcote, which last week defeated ’Town; on Satur-
day it stood ’Scray on its head—’Cote 42, ’Scray 41.
North Melbourne beat ’Town, 56 to 17 ; Port rubbed
Brighton’s aristocratic nose further in the slush, 58
to 23; and Brunswick performed the customary
hatchet act on Preston, which is now quite a sea-
soned chopping-block.
The annual irritation in Tasmanian foot-
ball was smoothed out last week, when the North
kicked the South out of sight, and won by 9 goals
10 behinds to 5 goals 15 behinds—64 points to 45.
The joy in Launceston was as great as the gloom in
Hobart; for in no other part of the Commonwealth
does such keen rivalry exist as between the North
and South of little Tassy.
The principal trouble among Sydney
bowlers came to an end on Saturday, when City
trampled on Waverley by 86 points to 65, and tucked
the Kawson Cup in the club sideboard for another
season. In one fearsome rink City downed the op-
position by 28 points to 9; while Waverley’s soli-
tary success was the rink it gathered in by 21 points
to 12.
Sydney baseball reached the end of the
first round on Saturday, with Lane Cove (which de-
molished Bur wood by 14 points to 5) alone 'at the
top of the tree. The other clubs are struggling
along cheerily, and there are many more less likely
things than the overthrow of Lane Cove. The ex-
cellent baseball displayed in Sydney club games this
season gives an impression that a particularly warm
N.S.W. team can be got together to confront Tas-
mania, Victoria and South Aus. at the inter-State
carnival in Sydney at the end of July.
Said that Arnst is training with terrific
energy, and is being massaged by a perfect tiger for
work with.just as much energy as he himself puts
into his training. And as Arnst sets great store on
good massaging, he is feeling pleased with himself.
But the assurance of the Pearce followers, who are
in some cases making Pearce favorite in the betting,
is worrying a few of the Arnst crowd. It is pointed
out, however, that the men who are immediately
associated with Pearce will not make a bet unless
they get odds. The persistent rumor that Arnst
had some trouble with his works seems to have done
deadly work in the wager market. Arnst, who a
fortnight ago was most anxious about his health and
terribly afraid of chills, now announces that he
never felt better in his life, and is much worried be-
cause the day is so short that he cannot get in enough
work to produce a real sweat. This sculling is be-
coming a trifle shifty.
In Yankeeland they’re hailing “Cyclone”
Johnny Thompson as a possible middleweight cham-
pion if Sam Langford should get over the limit. If
that is so, then, judging by the young man’s ap-
pearance in this country, boxing is on the down-
grade in the United States, as it is apparently every-
where else.
* * * *
Tahmmy Burns’s protegg, Jack Lester, is
lying low up Tarana way, where he is taking gentle
exercise and walking out with the gun a good deal.
It is said he still talks of “my next fight with
Lang” as though it were an assured thing, instead of
a very doubtful one.
Evidently England is not altogether effete.
Freddy Welsh, the lightweight who just now repre-
sents St. George in the land of Uncle Sam, got the
decision, after 20 hard-fought rounds, from M. Bald-
win. Welsh was favorite at 5 to 2 on, and at the
last the Yankees were offering to bet only that their
man would be on his feet at the end of the scrap.
Welsh is now entitled to fight Ad. Wolgast for the
world’s lightweight championship.
The Mclnstoush continues to carry things
with a high hand in Lunnon, where his securing of
the Palladium, the largest and most sumptuous music-
hall in the world, was quite a nine days’ wonder.
The rent for the night Papke fought Sullivan was
£5OO ; but as it was reckoned that the receipts would
round off about £6500, the Mclnstoush was not
downcast. Edmund Coveil, who managed the Sydney
Stadium in the absence of the Mac., got busy immedi-
ately he arrivel in London, working out the details of
next season’s “campaign.” Mclnstoush has secured
a piece of ground in the West End of London, on
which he is erecting a stadium to seat 10,000. This
will be the power-house of a circuit that will take in
Paris and Australia. In Paris, the Mclnstoush will,
it is understood, secure the Hippodrome, which he
believes to be tne best place in the giddy city for
boxing purposes. The coming season will see at
least six chamDionship contests in London, Paris and
Sydney, and the fighters already on the schedule in-
clude Johnson, Langford, Lester, Papke, Joe Jean-
nette, Freddie Welsh and about 150 others. In
fact, everybody worth watching at the job of marring
the image of the Deity is on the list.
* * * *
Final details of the Dunlop Warrnambool-
to-Meioourne road race have now been fixed up, and
competitors have the satisfaction of knowing that
they are riding for the largest prize-list ever offered
for the event. The total value is £215, made up
of 10 bicycles, £74 in cash, one £5 ss. gold medal,
and the Australasian Road Championship Blue Rib-
bon and Badge. In addition, every rider who covers
the course in 10J hours or under will, as usual, re-
ceive a bronze and enamel medal, which seems to
have more value in the eyes of the country cyclist
than any cash prize. The racers will be fed, gratis,
by the Dunlop Rubber Co., at various places en
route; and cheap railway fares and hotel prices have
been arranged by the big co. for the riders.
Nominations close at 108 Flinders-street, Mel-
bourne, on September 8; acceptances, Septem-
ber 30. Entrance and acceptance fees are fixed at
2s! 6d. each. One rule, to be strictly enforced, pro-
vides for the disqualification of anyone who changes
his machine ; another rubs out youths under 18.
Floyd MacFarland, erst-time “handicap
king,” is understood to be about to visit the Com-
monwealth with a racing team composed of A. J.
Clark, Ivor Lawson, Major Taylor, and a leading
French rider whose name has not transpired. He
is inquiring if there is any possibility of good prizes
being offered in Sydney, Melbourne and Adelaide
should such a team blow along. If he were to re-
place Major Taylor, who is said to have gone in the
boilers somewhat, and off whose pedal the Lord’s
foot has slipped, with Frank Kramer, and fix on
Frivol, the French crack, to represent the home of
romance, the chances are there would be good prizes.
Such a team would be worth watching; and, after
all, there’s nothing like offering good value for the
money, even if you don’t deliver the goods.
Of the five who finished in the recent
Burra-Adelaide (S.A.) Cycle Road Race (116 miles),
first, third and fourth were Griggs—three brothers.
W. E. Grigg, who was third, broke a rib a day or
two before the race, and rode in bandages. Never-
theless, he established fastest time. There were 23
starters, but bad weather put 18 to bed.
E. Schneider, the Australian amateur cy-
cling champion, has created a good impression in
England, in spite of the fact that he was licked.
His first attempt was in a five miles scratch event,
in which he found himself up against such men as
W. J. Bailey, the amateur champion of the world,
and Leon Meredith, who holds the world’s amateur
long distance record, and has won the championship
five times. Bailey won by half a wheel from Mere-
dith, but Schneider made good in the popular esti-
mation with a magnificent sprint that shook up the
field. Schneider unwound it too early, though, and,
tiring, was beaten.
Monday saw the start of the lately-an-
nounced reduction in the price of tyres, following on
the fall in rubber.
* * * *
The Vic. .Amateur Athletic Association is
struggling to revive amateur cycling, and a good com-
mittee is busy devising schemes. A 10-mile handi-
cap road-race is set down for decision at Brighton
Beach on August 19, in connection with the Malvern
Harriers’ seven-mile open handicap, and at the new
Amateur Sports’ Ground (late Friendly Societies’
Gardens) the Y.A.A.A. intends to eater for amateur
wheelers during the warm months.
The third N.S.W. Marathon championship
last week wasn’t a spectacle to rave over. An icy-
cold wind biffed the competitors in the face early in
the journey, and half the hopes that bloomed so fair
at the start were soon lying dead along the windy, dusty
track. Secretary Flowers started 29 runners; but at
the end of 26 miles only 14 survived, and of these S.
Poulter, of Newtown, finished nearly seven minutes
ahead of the two Victorians (A. Connor and W.
Murray), with the balance making a very bedraggled
tail. The time was 2hr. 54min. 38 l-ssec., or
8 l-ssec. slower than Sime’s Australian record. But
considering the adverse weather conditions, it was a
good effort in a foolish cause.
Poulter, who is only 22, has been on the doorstep
of several previous events. At Sydney, last year, he
finished third to A. Sime and Connor, and later he
filled fourth place in the long-distance event at Mel-
bourne. In his last scramble he took the lead at 21
miles, and ran away from the field in the final five
miles.
The club-swinging insanity is reaching
the Marathon stage. A week or so ago Jack Beamish,
who recently blew into Australia from overseas, dis-
turbed the West Maitland (N.S.W.) atmosphere for
82 hours. Tom Burrows promptly jumped into
the limelight at Lismore (N.S.W.) on Saturday, by
adding a couple of minutes to the effort of the
Beamish. Lismore, anxious to settle the business tor
ever, has hung up a prize of £l5O, to be whirled
for to the finish, even if it be Death. That might
give us peace for a while from this uninteresting
species of ma'dness.
* * * *
P. J. Randles, an English international
runner, landed in Sydney last week, and intends to
make his home hereabouts. This ped., who has been
prominent in English athletics for the past 12 years,
has won five Midland cross-country championships,
two Northern counties and three National champion-
ships. #
Mention was made in B. 15/6/’ll of the
pending arrival in Melbourne of E. R. Voigt, the
Manchester runner and athlete. The man who comes
with him, with the intention of hanging up a joint
business shingle somewhere (they are engineers), is
C. H. King, who also hails from the Manchester
Amateur Athletic Club. King, besides some heavy-
weight boxing records, has had victories on both
bicycle and running tracks.
Two old birds had an exciting flutter at
Marrickville (Sydney) on Saturday. Old-time cham-
pion peds. D. K. Campbell and Thomas Elliott, of
Paddington and Dulwich Hill, respectively, had a
friendly spin over 75yds. to decide the destination
of £3O. The Past-master, T. M. Malone, got them
away to a beautiful start, and Campbell tucked his
hind legs under at such a rate that lie was in front
till syds. from home. Then Elliott came with a
rush, and, passing him, won by a foot. There is
likely to be another race for £25 aside. These old
gentlemen should be careful.
* * * *
“Vagabond”: The present talk over wrest-
ler-boxer battles and the rival merits of Biff v.
Hug, recalls the discussions of a few years ago over
British bruising and French foot-fighting. The
savate men reckoned they could kick stuffing out of
any boxer before he could get home one wallop. The
boxers snorted, and asked whether they would be
asleep while the froggie kicked them round the ring
like a boy kicks an old tin kettle. A match between
“professors” of the two schools was finally fixed up
in a sporting club. The scrap didn’t last long. The
kicker had decidedly the best of it in the first round.
Before the boxer could finish feinting the footer ad-
ministered the “cow kick” —a nasty chip on the
shin. The shin is a painful spot, as everyone knows
who has fallen over the bedroom chair, and the
boxer’s dander began to rise. The footman was wait-
ing in the regular savate position, with all his
weight on the rear foot, so as to leave the front foot
free. A good punch on the head couldn’t fail to up-
end a man in such an attitude, and the boxer jumped
for what he reckoned his chance. His chance came
to meet him, though—the coup de flanc, an evolution
which terminates with the heel somewhere against
the throat or jaw of the kick-ee. The boxer retired
in a heap as far as the ropes allowed, but was up
again in a minute, and dashing in for another dose.
He got it, and still another, and each time he went
back to the ropes as if that was where he belonged.
The foot-fighter had been barred heavy shoes, how-
ever, and the kicks hadn’t weight enough to out the
other fellow. Second round the boxer kept a cautious
eye on the flying feet. The next kick that was wafted
along was a deadly one straight for the bread-basket.
But the boxer was too used to covering his point,
and partly dodged and partly took it on his glove.
Then his turn came, and he stepped smartly in, and
sent it along in a straight right to the jaw, with all
his body weight and the sting of his kicked shin be-
hind it. The Frenchman rose in the air, like a gas-
balloon when the anchor-rope’s cut, sailed over the
ropes and landed with the same old sick’nin’ thud
amongst the spectators. It was a good few minutes
later when he sat up, and, tenderly fingering a jaw
as big as a bucket, mumbled faintly: “I vill boxer
heem no more. Eet ees not fair. He heet too ’ard.”,
The contention of the French doctors
that high aeroplaning weakens the action of the
heart is backed to an extent by airman Hammond,
who was in Australia recently. Hammond says that
the manager of aeroplanist Hoxsey, who made his
last flight some time ago in Los Angeles, told him
(Hammond) that when the machine alighted Hoxsev
was sitting in the pilot’s seat, dead. Heart disease.


LOOK FOR NAME ON STRAP.
f
SOLES THAT WEAR,
QNLY the firm, tough centers of uniform
thickness are cut from the "bend” of
selected hides for Marshall Shoes. Only-
such leather is worthy of being lasted
over the famous Marshall true-to-
nature lasts, for the Quality
of comfort assured by Mar-
shall fit is always matched
by the best quality of
leather.
Quality of style has equal
thought, and the snappy
Marshall boot here shown
will win in comparison with
any so-called "style shoe”
which is simply grace-
ful, but lacks the
Marshall " no-
breaking-
in” com-
fort.
A
m
r • .
J
.
22/6
Style No. 1504.
Glace Kid
Bal.,
Myall Last
(also in Blucher).
Sold
in over
500 Towns
MARSHALL SHOE CO.,
RICHMOND, VIC
259
ANOTHER STYLE NEXT WEEK
sdf
■2OO to 400 per cent
more work than any
ordinary drill, possible with the “ Rice ” Patent Ball-
Bearing Drill Press. Owing to the sensitiveness and
consequent rapidity with which the drill can be handled,
the wider arrangement of speed and immunity from seizing
troubles, generally so frequent where high speeds must be
maintained, a production varying from 200 % to
400 °/ o above that of ordinary Drill Presses is attained,
the advantage being most pronounced where there is
the greatest variety in the size of the drill being used.
Made by Smith & Coventry, makers of the famous “ Novo ”
High-Speed Drills. Write for special pamphlet.
This is only one of the Modern Tools that we stock.
Let us quote for your workshop needs I
Thomas McPherson & Son,
582-588 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Is the most perfect Preservative for the Skin
and Complexion. Invaluable for the SKIN
In HOT or COLD Climates, removing all
ROUGHNESS, IRRITATION and TAN
COOLING AND REFRESHING TO THE SKIN, KEEPING IT SOFT
AS VELVET ALL THE YEAR ROUND, VERY SOOTHING IF
APPLIED AFTER SHAVING
M. BEETHAM & SON, CHELTENHAM, ENGLAND
The RIGNEY SHOE for MEN!
No matter how much you pay for made-to-order footwear you cannot fret
a shoe more satisfactory or more individual in its every detail than the Rie-nev
Shoe for men. J
The Shoe illustrated is a Patent Kid Lace, dull calf kid leer, with patent
lace facing-. Walking or dress wear.
Prices 27/6 and 30/-
WRITE FOR A COPY OF OUR NEW CATALOGUE.
The Rigney Shoe Co.,
“ The Men’s Exclusive High-Grade
Shoe Stores,”
305 GEORGE STREET, and
179 a PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
sd
Please note that the new shop in Pitt Street is under the personal management of Mr F
sole and only proprietor of the above firm. ' ‘
’• Rigney, the
8
LO
ORKMjry
ft
scoli
OLD ORKNEY
Real Liqueur Whisky
£
i'j '
AGENTS:
SYDNEY-Too heys, Ltd/
MELBOURNE—T. RJones & Co.
BRISBANE—EIIiott, Donaldson
& Douglas, Ltd.
ADELAIDE—Lord & Heseltino.
HOBART—John Ferguson & CoJ
LAUNGESTON—Jonn McKenzie &
& Co. 1
dson
eltlne. I
i & Co.™
Co.
THE WHISKY
FOR Hit HOME
fsd
Call and see one.
YOU CAN’T CHOOSE WRONG
IF YOU SELECT A “B. & B.”
But this doesn’t mean
The “ B. & B.” Cycle is made for men who want the best,
that the price is a fancy one.
our Model 3 at £lO/10/- is one of the finest cycles you can secure for the money—
-8el d „ 0 !11 fc i lat /° u .s et ' so ". )uch Rood ness in a machine for this price.
It is made from Standard British fitting, and, if desired, may be secured with
mckehplated rims, free wheel and back rim brake, or Eadie or New Departure
Coaster Hub at an advance of j6l on the above price.
Our Pitt Street Depdt is open till 9on Friday nights. Or write for Catalogue.
Bennett & Barkell, Ltd.,
largest Cycle Building House in the State,
234 Pitt Street, and Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
| Most doctors from goodness of heart treat some
I cases without expectation of payment, but did you
ever know of a doctor who returned fees when he
failed to cure ? The. Union Manufacturing Com-
pany guarantee to return paid if
Wright's RheumatrtAßemedy fk hef Canadian
cure, does ,f!ot/ curi 'yfmr
lumbaTb, or /\dpey /froublesfJOf'course,' - this
coiUdia<Wbpvaone if/those w«ere many failures,
and,matter o 4 here have been only i
thrdeinstances in fy/er'years in which the refund
was claimed. Ifyou send to 299 Elizabeth Street,
Melbourne, the company will give you full par-
ticulars and a copy of the legally binding guarantee
[they issue with the remedy. The price is only
5/6 for a full month’s treatment, that is often
sufficient to cure a severe and long-standing case.
f
The product of
tme source only
More miles on *SfieU" than
on any other.
Its perfect purity -that's
the point'
THE“MOTA” HAT
( Regd.).
Wi
'
m
THE man who studies style and comfort in hats
has more than a DESIRE for the “ Mota”—he
has a NEED for one. For the “ Mota” at a
small price is the most comfortable and most dis-
tinctively stylish Soft Felt of the day.
For motoring, cycling, riding, driving and general
wear for town and country it is the Ideal Hat.
The material is good—it will wear well; the brim
and crown is easily adapted—it will suit vour style.
Prices 7/6 to 12/8, in all fashionable colors, at
leading stores throughout Australia.
The name “ MC 1 ” is registered, and the design
also. Beware of i.nringements.
If unobtainable in your district, write us direct.
THE AUSTRAL HAT MILLS, LIMITED,
ABBOTSFORD, MELBOURNE.
Make 1
your
_ own
Cigarette^
if.rS
twice 1
as gooey
CIGARETTE
PAPER
arvd
IF NOT PROCURABLE AT YOUR
TOBACCONIST APPLY TO THE AGENTS
Jacobs Bros. LT? 255? George SJ Sydncv
Legal Notices.
WILLIAM ALMOND.
BY an Order of the Chancery Court of
the County Palatine of Durham (Eng-
land) made on the 17th day of October
1906. In the matter of the Trusts of the
Will of JOHN ALMOND of the Queen’s
Head Inn West Auckland in the County
of Durham Innkeeper deceased an inquiry
was directed whether WILLIAM ALMOND
hereinafter named survived the above-named
John Almond and whether he is now living
or dead and if dead when he died and who
are his legal personal representatives.
Information is. requested as to the where-
abouts of the said William Almond if alive
or if dead as to when and where he died and
who are his legal personal representatives.
The said William Almond or any person
or persons claiming, under him are person-
ally or by their Solicitors on or before the
JOth day of October 1911 to come in and
as to the said William Almond establish
his identity and as. to any other claimants
prove their claims at the Chambers of the
Registrar of the said Court No. 19, Elvet
Bridge in the City of Durham, England, or
in default thereof such order will be made
in the premises as the Justice of the Case
mav require.
Friday the 10th day of November 1911
at half-past 11 o’clock in the forenoon at the
said Chambers is appointed for hearing and
adjudicating upon the Claims.
Dated the 12th day of April 1911.
A. O. SMITH,
Registrar.
The said William Almond is believed to
have been born at Smethwich near Birming-
ham in England about 57 years ago, and
was a nephew of the said John Almond. He
was a Forgeman and lived for some time at
Lemington-on-Tyne and Consett both in
England and he went to Australia about
1891 and may have left there for South
Africa about seven years ago. If he was
alive on the 26tji day of November 1903
ne became entitled to a sum of upwards of
±3OO as part of the residuary estate of the
said John Almond.
GEO. WM. JENNINGS,
10, Market Place,
Bishop Auckland (England),
Solicitor for the Plaintiff.
“LINSEED COMPOUND.”— The “Stockport
Remedy ” for Coujrhs & Colds. Of 40 years’proven efficacy.
THE Australian thinks in Continents, because
he is the only man who has a Continent
to think in.” THE LONE HAND is the only
Magazine that caters for a Continent.


FOR QUALITY !
FOR VALUE !
FOR EXCLUSIVENESS!
A. SAUNDERS
THOUSANDS OF EXQUISITE NEW DESIGNS IN JEWELLERY.
LET US POST YOU OUR 100-PAGE FREE CATALOG.
30/-
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Solid Silver Open-face Keyless
WATCH, Full Jewelled, Patent Adjusted
Balances. 30/.
Guaranteed 1 Year’s Free Repair.
30/-
A. SAUNDERS. -
Oct Cold 2-Bar Pearl-set SPRAY BROOCH,
1 7/0-
18ct Gold,
Diamonds and
Emerald Cluster
KING,.
£ 7/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, Sot
Diamonds, Ru-
bies, or Sap-
phires.
£B/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold BROOCH, Fine Pure White
Double-cut Diamonds, ;L U'-
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold BROOCH, Set Green Tourma-
lines or Rubies,
2i./- ■
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, set
Fine Pure
Double-cut Dia-
monds,
£l2/10/.
a. Saunders.
18ct Gold, set
14 Pure Double
Cut Diamonds
and Choice
Black Opal,
£ 15-
A. SAUNDERS.
9et Gold, set Pearls and Red or Blue
Stone, 15/-
A. SAUNDERS.
Isct Gold BROOCH, set Pure Double-cut
Diamonds and Rubies or Sapphires,
£4/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, 3
Pure Double-cut
Diamonds,
£ 5-
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Fancy Cross,
Nicely Chased, 10/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Emu
CHARM,
5/6-
With Gold Pin,
7/6-
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold-mounted
CIGAR CUTTER.
10/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold PEN-
DANT, set Fine
Pearls and
Amethyst,
:».<>
A.
9ct Gold,
Set Pearls,
Garnet, or
Peridot, 12/0-
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold, Half-
round Half-chased
Bamboo BRACE-
LET, Strong
Safety Chain
attached,
£2/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, Dia-
monds and
Pearl, Ruby,
Sapphire or
Opal,
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold PENDANT AND
NECKLACE, Set Pearls and
Amethysts, £4-
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold PENDANT,
set Garnets or
Amethyst and
Pearls, Oval or
Heart shaped
Stone, 8/C>-
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold,
Pure Diamond
PIN, 22/6-
A. SAUNDERS. Jk
50/-
Gold NECKLACE,
Set Pure White
Pearls and
Amethysts,
50/-
REMEMBER,
We Pay
Postage
on all
Orders to
Any Address.
50/-
V Beautiful
Design of our
own work-
manship,
50/
NO MATTER
where you live, j
Our Up-to-date !
Mail Order Depi
will serve you
promptly and
satisfactorily.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold Cluster BROOCH, Fine Pure
White Double-cut Diamonds,
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold, Set
Pearls, Rubies,
Sapphires, or
Greenstone,
15/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct Gold
Engraved
TIE-CLIP,
A. SAUNDERS.
lbct Gold,
Diamonds and
Ruby or Sapphires,
£lO
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct Gold, Set Pearls
and Rubies or Sap-
phires, 17/<>
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold BRACE-
LET, set Dia-
monds and Ru-
bies or Sapphires,
£B/10/-
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold MEDAL, 20 !■
15ct Gold, 40/;
£4/10/.
sd
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Solid Gold Half- _ tra
Hunting Unless WATCH, Full Jewelled. F.xti
Heavy, £4/10/-
Guaran ’ 3 Years’ Free Repairs.
£4/10/.
A. SAUNDERS. j ,
Oct Gold 2-Bar BROOCH, set Diamonds and
Rubies or Sapphires, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Band
RING, Opal, Red,
or Blue Stones,
17/6
A. SAUNDERS.
. 18et Gold, Dia-
monds and Ru-
bies or Sapphires,
Oval Cluster
RING,
£l2/10/.
m
ffm s
9ct. Gold NAME BROOCH, nicely engraved,
any Initials,
10/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold EAR-
, RINGS, set
Pearls and Brilli-
ants, S/6-
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, Set
5 Fine Opals,
£2/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold RING,
Set Amethyst or
Topaz, 20/-
A. SAUNDERS. „„„„„„
Oct Gold 2-Bar Amethyst and Pearl BROOCH,
255/-
, \ SAUNDERS. . ,
15-ct Gold 2-Bar BROOCH, set Diamonds and
Rubies or Sapphires,
£3/10/
\ I?
N-
£l
Gent.’s Solid Silver Hunting
WATCH. Full Jewelled, Non-ms
Reliable Works,
£3/10/.
-nv-tra. Jewelled Movement.
Guaranteed 2 Years’ Free
Keyless Lever
ignetic, Strong
. £4/10/.
Repairs.
£4/10/
SAUNDERSN
A
BEAUTIFUL GOLD NECKLACE,
Set Peart?, and Topaz,
~ or Amethyst,
75/-
IF
You are interested
in Beautiful Sil-
ver-plate, Toilet,
or Leather Goods,
Write us for our
Catalogs of eacli
Department.
perhaps
Your eyes are
troubling yu".
Then let us send
you our free Home
Eye Test Chart.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Fancy Chain Padlock BRACELET,
£ 2-
Heavier. £2/10/-. Strong Safety Chain attached.
Gold “Mizpah”
Heart CHARMS,
5/G
A. SAUNDEES.
let Gold “Curb” MUFF CHAIN, £3/10/-
£4, £5/10/.
£2.
A. SAUNDERS.
ient.’s High-grade Sohd Silver Hunting
Compensation Balance, Dirt and Water
Proof Cases, £2.
Higher Grade, £2/10/. .
Guaranteed 3 Years’ Free Repair,.
£2/10/
JEWELLER,*
MAKER
Wa
SYDNEYS LEADING JEWELLER.
807.809.811.815.815.817.GE0RGE ST. (Opposite Railway Sration! SYDNEY,N.SW
& SILVERSMITH
O fISULT/# c i


Premos Produce Perfecft Pictures
Premo Cameras find favor with all photographers, because of their splendid construction, uniform reliability and
great convenience. They are compact, simple and durable; give unexcelled results on all classes of work
and are so made that they will accommodate the Premo Film Pack as well as plates
Hereunder you will find described a few models of these famous cameras. The Premo Catalogue gives full details
of all other styles. Call, or write for a free copy.
M/ 1
PONY PREMO No. 1.
Absolutely the best value in
a 4 x 5 plate camera ever
offered at the price. It is
strongly made, all metal parts
are nickelled, the lens is an
excellent R.K., and the cover-
ing- of grain leather.
It has rising and falling
front, reversible brilliant
finder, single valve automatic
shutter, and weighs but 240 z.
The price of the camera,
complete with case and one
double plate-holder, is
£2 10s.
PONY PREMO No. 3.
This camera has all the ad-
vantages of the preceding
models, with the addition of
rack and pinion focussing at-
tachment, longer extension,
and double valve automatic
Shutter.
These advantages make the
instrument a very desirable
one for those amateurs wish-
ing for a camera with broad
scope of work at moderate
price.
Made in two sizes :
5x4 J-plare
£4 Is. £5 10s.
With ease and 1 double plate-
holder.
PONY PREMO No. 2.
This has the same general
characteristics as the Pony
Premo No. l, but has the
additional advantage of rever-
sible back—an important con-
sideration to many amateurs.
The hack can he instantly re-
versed for horizontal or verti-
cal pictures,, so that it is not
necessary to chance the posi-
tion of the camera itself for
either style of pint ure
This model can be supplied
in two sizes, as follows :
5x4 i-plnte
£3 £3 17s. 6d.
Complete with case and 1
double plate-holder.
PONY PREMO No. 4.
This camera is designed for a
wider range of work than its
predecessors. It is provided
with additional equipment of
swing back, jjlanatograph
lens and the new automatic
standard clamp. The lens is
the best obtainable outside
anastigmats. The camera box I
is of leather covered mahog- !
any, with rack and pinion on 1
the bed for fine focussing. It j
lias the rising and falling-
front, a hooded brilliant re-
versible finder, and two tripod
sockets.
Made in two sizes :
5x4 J-plate
£5 £6 15s.
With case and 1 double plate-
holder.
The postage on any of these Cameras will be 1/9 In the
State; 2/8 Inter-State.
sqi
85
KODAK (Australasia) LTD.,
Incorporating Baker
& Rouse Prop. Ltd.,
George St., Sydney. “ The Block,” 284 Collins St., IVielbourne. 37 Rundle St., Adelaide.
78-80 Queen St., Brisbane. Ruthven St., Toowoomba. Flinders St., Townsville. 346 Argent St., Broken Hill. 6 Mercer St., Wellington, N.Z
“ The Chalmers has been
recommended
me.
* *
Da-y- after day, both in Sydney and Melbourne, intending purchasers come to our showrooms to
see the Chalmers—men from the North of Queensland, men from Tasmania, men from all over
Australia.
We take this condition to mean that the Chalmers car has not only now made a good reputa-
tion in our country, but also that the Chalmers Company has succeeded in building cars that
appeal to the careful buyers here.
Out of the 46 cars we have sold since Christmas, 35 of them were -Chalmers cars; out of
these 35 purchasers, 12 were experienced motorists—men who had previously owned cars. Again,
there were four repeat orders from Chalmers owners.
From Sydney to Narromine, 300 miles, at an average of 33 miles per hour, and over 20 miles
to. the gallon of fuel. From Warialda to Newcastle, 310 miles, in daylight. Seven thousand
miles in 10 weeks, and the front tyres still good. These records speak for themselves.
20-30 H.P. Touring Car
equipped with Five Lamps,
Generator, 880 x 120
Tyres,
£490
Both
Guaran-
teed
Two
Years.
35-40 H.P. Torpedo
with full equipment
and 920 x 120
tyres,
£790
ART CATALOGUES ARE FREE.
GET ONE.
ROY W. SANDFORD,
Agent for Chalmers and Thomas Cars and Empire Runabouts,
105 EXHIBITION ST., MELBOURNE; 181 ELIZABETH ST„ SYDNEY.
Get a Half-Guinea “PLUM.”
fsd
As practical Hairdressers we know there’s no razor will
give better all-round satisfaction than a “PLUM.” We
put the edge on every Plum before it goes to the’buyer,
and guarantee to keep it in order free for two years.
We Use “ PLUM ” in Our Own Saloon.
The Plum Razor,
10/6
POST FREE
ANYWHERE.
Send for our Free
Illustrated Price
List.
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-
PLUM RAZOR, in Case, 10/6.
Pair in Case, 21/.
The Plum Razor Strop, 10/6 and 7/6.
Other good kinds from 3/6 each.
Universal Shaving Soap, 6d.
Razoleo Lightning Sharpener, 6d.
All the above Post Free.
We Crind and Set Razors, 1/- each
SAFETY RAZORS from 5/6.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George St., Sydney.
Established
30 Years.
LOOK FOR THERED
WINCHESTER
RIFLE AND PISTOL CARTRIDGES
On account of being manufacturers of fire-
arms as well, the Winchester company
are peculiarly able to know the best re-
quirements for ammunition. This partially
answers the question often asked: “Why
do Winchester cartridges excel?” The
rest of the answer is contained in their
large, modern plant and their extensive
knowledge of the firearms and ammuni-
tion business. Winchester Cartridges are
made for all makes of rifles and pistols
and always give entire satisfaction.
FOR SALE BY DEALERS EVERYWHERE


Missing: Friends.
\\f ILLIAM GEORGE DOREY, formerly of Camper-
V down, Farmer, is requested to communicate
with LEONARD BUCKLAND, Solicitor, Camper-
down, Victoria, at once.
I OllN" EDMOXD CRIDLON WOOD, late “Nor-
wood,” Rose Park, Adelaide, S.A., Sister
SELENA (married name Macßean) inquires. Ad-
dres3 _C/o A. C. MacBEAN, 369 Collins Street,
Melbourne, Australia.
Public Notice.
NOTICE is hereby given that the Patentee of Aus-
tralian Patent No. 9480, dated 13th August,
1907, for “Improvements in apparatus for progres-
sively moulding plastic material into conduits in
situ ” are prepared to satisfy any demands and all
requirements of the Public respecting the said inven-
tion.
Further particulars and information obtainable
from COLLISON AND CO., Attorneys, 483
Collins Street. Melbourne, and Engle Chambers,
King William Street, Adelaide.
MUNICIPALITY OF ALBURY.
"TENDERS will be received up'to 4 p.m., July 4,-
1 1911, from Travelling Companies for the LEAS-
ING of the Market Square, Albury, for Show Week,
commencing September 11, 1911.
Deposit equal to 50 per cent, to accompany tender.
Further particulars on application.
A. R. DORE, Town Clerk.
Town Hall, Albury, June 19, 1911.
W'l
Atmosl ite
Ai r-Gas
hasa clear quality of light
that illumines every ob-
ject that comes within its
logical radiation. It is
indisputably the best for
all kinds of country light-
ing, especially for stores
showing up all kinds of
merchandise to the best
advantage, and brings
out the colors in a way
that rivals sunlight.
Literature on request.
Brandt Bros., Ltd.,
L.AMPHOUSE.
236 Pitt St., Sydney.
Elizabeth St, Melbourne
fsd
..
V,
i
R
'Ufa ,
<fPHll ■
it"
!t&
I I
Mi
£ '
Parrot
Brand
BOSISTO’S
‘ PARROT
BRAND ”
... EUCALYPTUS OIL
The Great Australian Remedy for
RHEUMATISM, COUGHS and COLDS.
Can We Man
Our Navy ?
«[[ The absurd fear that the Australian lad would
not respond to the call for naval service has
been met by the statement ol the Director
of Naval Reserves
that : “ From vol-
unteers that came
forward three times
the necessary num-
ber of cadets could
have been enrolled.”
Sydney i and Mel-
bourne will each
supply 800 naval
cadets ; Brisbane,
Adelaide and Fre-
Illustration by Norman Lindsay
to “ Mud Pies."
mantle 300 each ; and all our other seaports
from 200, in the case of Newcastle, down to
Thursday Island, with 25.
The whole subject of naval discipline and the
Australian lad is dealt with in The Lone
H AND for July, under the title, “ I he Aus-
tralian Bluejacket—Better than the British
Ty y
ar.
The highest naval authorities, British and
Australian, unite in praising the Australian
Bluejacket. Read their enthusiastic opinions.
Some of the Other Features
of a Big' Issue.
The Recipe for Rubber— the splendid Serial by an
Anonymous Author.
White, Yellow and
Brown —by Randolph Bed-
ford.
Pidlure Making By the
Camera superbly illus-
trated, in which the question
whether Photography is Art is
discussed by Lionel Lindsay.
‘‘Mud Pies’* — a One-Act
Comedy, by Arthur H. Adams,
which is of the nature of an alle-
gory for Australian politicians.
“The Dead FinisH” —the
most striking Australian war
story ever published, by William
Gerard.
Illustration by Norman Lindsay to
“ The Dead Finish."
Price
PUBUSHED JULY i.
—the Price of THE BULLETIN.
Poor old Mark Twain has now come un-
der the frown of the Victorian Wowser,
who, at Leongatha, has debated “Eves
Diary,” and banned it from the local public
library. Heaven only knows what would
have happened to Eve herself had the W ow-
ser put a gimlet-hole into the gate of the
Garden of Eden. Presumably he would
have held a mass meeting, and resolved that
the Omnipotent didn’t know His business,
else He wouldn’t have sent a human being
into the world in that state. But, as the
Wowser didn’t happen to be about then, lie
repairs the oversight by practically carrying
a perpetual vote of censure against the Al-
mighty now.
“Safran”: On what basis are modern
knighthoods inflicted? In recent times
Charles Wyndham, Bancroft, John Hare,
Beerbohm Tree, and George Alexander-
mediocre mummers all —have been 4 ‘honored.
If there is a useless, unproductive profes-
sion on earth it is that of acting. The actor
makes nothing, discovers nothing, leaves no-
thing behind him. He does no real good to
anyone but himself. His appeal is to a
severely limited class. He doesn t bring joy
or comfort to those who need them most,
since a certain amount of health and wealth
(the main factors in human happiness) are
conditions precedent to seeing him at work.
He charges heavily for his services, and
gives few free shows. To compare his ser-
vices to the community with those of (say)
the capable doctor would be absurd, let
world-famous surgeons and physicians like
Mark Ilovell, Hurry Fenwick, and Herbert
Hawkins, of London, Australia’s Alexander
MacCormick, and scores of other benefac-
tors of their kind go untitled. One ot the
few Australian doctors that have been
knighted of late years got the decoration be-
cause he was a Mayor!
“Vic.” furnishes a Court circular (with
tips) :
The principal English crown is “St. Edward’s.”
It was a copy, made for Charles 11., Cromwell
having broken up the former tile. There is also the
Imperial crown, made for Victoria in 1838, when it
replaced a former crown of the same name. I his
contains more interesting jewels than the Ed-
ward millinery. First, there is a ruby which be-
longed to the Black Prince, and was worn by
Henn V. at Agincourt. Secondly a sapphire, alleged
to have come right down from Edward the Confess-
or. The Orb, surmounted by a cross, means that
the Cross dominates the world. Is that so ? What
does the tribe of Cohen think? The whole regalia is
estimated at three millions sterling. Cromwell must
have been holding for a rise. I’ll bet you the whole
lot is auctioned within a century, and fetches more
than three millions. The Pierpont Morgans and
Wertheimers will all be on the job. Yet the cat may
come back. In the French Revolution the Versailles
furniture was auctioned and dispersed. With in-
credible pains, Louis the Eighteenth recovered the
furniture of Louis the Fourteenth’s bedroom, and it
is there now. Nevertheless, that cat s gone again.
A Sydney Stock Exchange. circular re-
marks that “the present boom in industrials
is quite without precedent in the history or
Australia.” What has happened to the old
bogey that local enterprisers ‘‘shackled and
“paralysed” by legislation? And what has
become of the prophecy that trade and com-
merce would be driven to the dogs by the
scourge of Labor domination?
The Vice-Admiralty Courts, which have
hitherto operated in N. S. Wales, will cease
to exist on July 1, after which date the trou-
bles of the seafaring man will be dealt with
for better or worse by the State Supreme
Court, which has become a Court of Admir-
alty. As far as the litigant is concerned he
will hardly notice the difference. He will
have to appear in the same old way in the
same old building; there will be no difference
in the horsetail attached to the proceedings ;
the familiar tipstaff will offer the old, old
invitation to “draw nigh ye who have busi-
ness with this honorable Court,” and. if “ye’
don’t draw nigh quick and lively, 14 John
Hops will bellow for “ye” in the passages.


Fashionable
Favorite-Perfume
minr'W*
num
tinmiuilSjn
m I.nii .1^
F.WOIFF&oOHN
F.Woiff&Sohn
PERFUMERS
KARLSRUHE \
ft LONDON
Obtainable from all the Leading Stores
fca Well, of course
Anything wo:th doing is
worth doing well —so for
the antiseptic cleansing your
teeth need every day, use
CALVERT’S
Carbolic Tooth Powder
Lcral Chemists and Stores sell'it.
F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester, Eng,
V
c
A
&
£
f/7
VN
00.11
- NON-RUSTABLE
D
Stay Style and Corset Comfort
The non-rustable D & A Canadian
corset, model No. 636, here illustrated,
has solved the corset problem for many
women. It has the long flowing lines
demanded by the mode, and produces a
perfect figure. At the same time it is
hygienic and comfortable, and is sure to
give perfect satisfaction.
The D & A embodies the latest ideas from Paris,
and in fit and workmanship is superior to many stays at
double the price. For sale by all leading drapers.
DOMINION CORSET CO., QUEBEC, Canada,
Makers of the celebrated T Divn Pam
lot*
y\s >/
636
ICILMA
Dry SHAMPOO
POWDER.
u.
PER
PACKET.
TWO SHAMPOOS FOR THREEPENCE.
LADIES !
When your hair gets dirty and greasy,
And the winds are cold and breezy,
There's a SHAMPOO DRY
That you should try
Called “ICILMA” —it's efficient and easy.
NO
WATER
AT ALL
NEEDED
USE
DRY
All Chemists and Storekeepers, or post free from
ICILMA DEPOT,
(DEPT. D),
139 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
FOR
RHEUMATISM
GOICRYST
Packets, 3d., 6d. and Is.
Now,
retail prices are largely governed by the method of merchandising the goods.
Closely interwoven with our policy of quality, sincerity and integrity are Cash
Principles, which mainly account for the lowness of our prices and the superiority of our
stocks* With ready money available in big sums* we are welcomed in the most exclusive
manufactories* and thus our silverplated ware is always better in design, and costs less*
We countenance neither debts nor middlemen of any kind* Be sure of the quality. Be certain
of a saving. The “Treasure House ” merits
your patronage. Some specially attractive
Toilet Ware.
H7676—Solid Silver Frog Pin
Cushion, 8/6
Wi.
F72B7—Solid Silver and. Out Glass
Toilet Bottle, 6Jin. high, £5 15s.
E6s34—Sterling Silver
Mounted Manicure
Scissors, curved points,
8/6
It. r
VSf
G4B3s—Solid Silver Trinket Box, size
5 x 3i, £4
Js o 3s—Han d snm e Silver-plated Jewel Box, Satin-lined, with lock and key, size ? x «
*2 ln - high ; price £5 ss. A large selection of ottier designs in stock, in
iprioes from 7/6 upwards. '
G796o— Solid Silver Hair Brash, 12/6; with Comb, in case, 20/-
G7964— Solid Silver Hand Mirror, same design, 27/6
-Sterling Silver Pearl Shell Pin Tray, 7/6
(Kangaroo or Emu).
J446B—Solid Silver and Cut Glas9
Powder Box, 10/6
€6697 —Sterling Silver Lavender
Salts Bottle Holder, 30/-
Stewart Dawson 8 Co.,
(Australia), Ltd.,
Strand Corner, 412 George St., Sydney.


Cried for 18 Months, Day and Night.
Scab Formed from Head to Foot.
WasToldOnlyTimeWouldCurelt.
Tried CuticuraSoap and Ointment.
First Application Eased Itching.
Kept On. All Scabs Cleared. Now
Bonny Boy, Spotlessly Clean.
"My little grandchild had some white spots
breaking out on the skin and then they were
fsd
full of watery stuff and
itched. The result was
that they broke and
formed a scab which
was over his body from
head to foot, so that it
became unbearable for
him. He cried for
about eighteen months
day and night. 1 tried
two or three doctors,
but they did him no
good, only that they
gave some powders to
make him sleep, and
that was only for a short
time as the effect of
them was soon over.
They could not make
out what was the reason
of the sores that covered all of the child.
Nothing would cure it, only time, they said,
but I was not satisfied, so I tried the Cuticura
Soap and Ointment. I had two tablets of
Soap and two boxes of Ointment. The first
application eased the itching so I kept on
until I used the two tablets and the boxes,
and all the scabs got cleared, and now he is
a bonny boy, spotlessly clean without a sign
of anything on his skin. Before applying the
Cuticura Remedies, he was all covered with
scabs and gone, only skin and bones, so I
must thank the wonderful Cuticura Remedies.
They saved the child’s life.” (Signed) Mrs.
D. Thomas, Ivy Cottage, Zoar Road, Ystaly-
fera, Swansea. South Wales, Mar. 3, 1910.
Cuticura Remedies are sold throughout
the world. Send to R. Towns & Co., Sydney,
N, S. W., for free Cuticura book on the skin
and liberal sample of Cuticura Ointment.
5
Her Youth
rD.A
:LENtf
rr Mexican
WALNUT STAIN
for Grey Hair
only permanent and really satisfactory
ONE SOLUTION Hair Stain
ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES
cus
When Marketing
do not forget the
BIRD’S CUSTARD
Powder the busy
howsewife’s never-
failing resource;
BIRD’S CUSTARD
with STEWED or
CANNED FRUITS
forms an Exquisite
_ Dish.
Bird's
Custard
“LINSEED COMPOUND” for Coughs and
Colds. Of proven efficacy for chest complaints.
a
*
-o
■V
A<s
'^cturin o
WHOLESALE:
ft Reid & Co., Ltd.
Sargood Bros.
Alcock Bros., Ltd.
°etersen, Boesen
& Co., Ltd.
Etc.
RETAIL:
Everywhere, at Gd.
per tin—Black, Tan,,
gnd Ox-blood.
WOLSEY
p
FOR UNDERWEAR VALUE
Wolsey has become the most widely-selling Underwear
in the world, simply because it offers such Value as is
unobtainable elsewhere. No matter what Wolsey Garment you
buy, or where you buy it, it will fit, and wash, and wear in
a way which will make you thoroughly glad you chose it.
'Wolsey' means freedom from chills, better comfort, economy, and satisfaction.
GUARANTEED
ALL PURE WOOL
The Wolsey material is clean,
new wool, soft, elastic, protect-
ive ; no cotton or mixtures.
WOLSEY
REPLACED FREE
IF IT SHRINKS
Wolsey Underwear is guaran-
teed unshrinkable,and replaced
free should it prove otherwise.
Wolsey Underwear is made in many garments for men, women, and children,
and is the finest value for all. When buying be sure to see the Wolsey mark.
Wolsey Pure Wool Unshrinkable Underwear is obtainable from any retailer. .
PALMER
CORD
TYRES.
fsd
THE
BEST
TYRES.
USED ON THE KING’S CARS.
Palmer Cord Tyres.
Only those tyres which have PROVED better than all others have the honor
of our King’s patronage
Palmer Cord Tyres must, by reason of their unique and ingenious construction,
last longer and give greater satisfaction than those built upon a canvas foundation.
Apply for New Reduced Price List issued under date Ist May, 1911.
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER CO.,
279 GEORGE STREET SYDNEY and at 33 Bolton Street, Newcastle.
v-
UNDER VICE-REGAL
PATRONAGE.
The Misses Isaacs,
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair*
workers & Dermatologists,
161 KING STREET, SYDNEY, between Elizabeth & Oastlereagh Streets.
Transformations from £4/4/- Tails from 7/6. Puffs from 26/- set. Fringes from 7/6.
Telephone 2138 Central. COMBINGS MADE UP.
Country orders receive prompt attention.
COUGHS
Colds, Asthma, Bronchitis and
Lung troubles quickly cured by
POWELLS
BALSAM
OF
ANISEED
of
All Stores
%
and Chemists
**ade
Wholesale Agents for Victoria: DUERDEN &. SAINSBURY, Melbourne.
f
sd
Food
FOR INFANTS , INVALIDS AND THE AGED.
A food of great nutritive value, which can be made
suitable for any degree of digestive power by the
simple process of letting it stand for a longer or
shorter period at one stage of its preparation.
Benger’s Food forms with milk, a dainty, delicious and
highly nutritive cream, entirely free frcm rough and
indigestible particles. “The Lancet” describes it as
“Mr. Benger’s admirable preparation.”
BENGER’S FOOD, LIMITED, Otter Works, Manchester, England.
(Fjenger’s Food is sold in tins by Druggists, etc., everywhere.
829
The Inky Way.
After begging for an owner for the best part of a
year, the Tasmanian News, the Speck’s only even-
ing paper, has fallen into the hands of the Daily
Post 00., Hobart’s Labor sheet. The price paid is
somewhere in the vicinity of £2200. The News
has sickened several owners during its quarter-
century ; yet there ought to be room in Hobart for
an evening sheet of some sort.
* * * *
“Melb”: The Herald has just added a storey to its
nest, making four. Its premises, in Flinders-street,
were formerly Degraves’s Bond. In times imme-
morial the paper issued from Bourke-street, near the
post office. Here was the locale of the “Symese
Twins”—Syme’s attempt to work Age and Herald
together. The paper first moved to Swanston-street,
where the Bank of Victoria had stood ; then it shifted
to Raphael’s store in Little Collins-street; next to
the Daily Telegraph office, in Collins-street; lastly
to, Degraves’s, where it will doubtless remain unto
time immemorial.
* * * *
Not many things like a newspaper for either
making money or eating it. The Illustrated London
News and Sketch, Ltd., told the Chancery Court
the other day that it had dropped £150,000 on its
satellite, the Penny Illustrated Paper (P.1.P.),
and then sold it for £250.
“Priscilla Prink”: I’m satisfied that these recent
ancient-newspaper Bulletin correspondents are all
working from the same plotch—-*not from original
copies of the papers from which they quote, but
from a collection of reprints of early English news-
papers and historical documents published some
years ago by the Curio Publishing Co., Fleet-street,
London, and sold at Is. per set. Anyhow, nobody
has come to light so far with a quotation that I can-
not trace in my copy of the publication.
The Maoriland Institute of Journalists has been
occupying what spare time it has, after seeing about
a couple of hundred different newspapers to press,
in preparing the first number of The M.L. Journa-
list, which was published at Wellington some days
ago. And when “the boss” reads it, he will rush
round and “fire” a few of the boys for not writing
bright readable matter like that for his publication.
After which he will probably note that the leading
article is stowed away on the back page amongst
the advertisements, and he may consider whether
that isn’t a tip worth taking.
* * * *
“E.J.C.”: Jack Reidy, of the Yass (N.S.W.)
Courier, the other day, for a wager, hand-set a
solid column of long primer type in lhr. 55min.
The length of the column was 22 inches, and the
width measurement 13J pica oms. I have seen
many rattling good case-hands attempting a record,
but the previous best known of is a column in 2hrs.
lOmin. Has any Inky Wayite seen anything ap-
proaching Reidy’s time for a column? Gus Furley,
the oldest printer in this State, says it is a world’s
record. The feat was performed on a cold day, after
the comp, had put in the earlier part of the eight
hours distributing type, so that the conditions were
not too favorable.
* * * *
“R. 8.”: Magazine artists and writers didn’t re-
quire Standard Oil and other money-bewildered
octopi to make a Magazine Trust in order to bring
them trouble, and with the absence of competition
the rank and file will be as poorly paid as bank
clerks. A great deal is heard of the money earned
by the late O. Henry, for instance, but it was mostly
newspaper twaddle. Henry, whose name was Porter,
died thousands of dollars in debt to the magazines;
and they did the graceful thing that they yrere
forced to do, and cancelled the debts, so that his
wife shouldn’t suffer. But while lie was working
they paid him anything they wanted to, add then
talked of his extravagance, and uttered the equiva-
lent for “Clever fellow, but he drinks.” (P.S. —
U.S. equivalent: “Wise guy, but souses.”)
*** * .
“Pat O’Maori”: What a mighty thing is the press!
It is now, I learn, on the eve of printing without
ink. We shall soon have it publishing without
paper. Already we have it writing without ideas,
and it is within measurable distance of thinking
without brains. Meantime, a large section of Aus-
tralia’s best mind wastes time that should be spent
in finding rhymes for great national poetry, trying to
solve the eternal problem of living without cash.
THE MASTER BARD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Hide, hide your heads, ye meaner bards,
And rend your Jews’-harps into shards —
Discerning Fame your claims discards!
Away! We have no longer room
For Bedford and his d—d pantoum,
Or Kodak, with his songs of Gloom !
Ye Three Macs, in a twanging row,
McCrae, McKay, McKee-Wright—Go !
In vain your placid numbers flow.
Hence Adams, with your lyre outworn!
Hence Brady, Dennis, Hervey, Born-
Your strains fall fireless and forlorn!
Earth asks no more the whirling, loud,
Amazing octaves of O’Dowd,
And Hebblethwaite, and all that crowd!
We tire of endless quips from Quinn,
Of Cabot’s dirges, sad as Sin,
And Lawson’s ever-merry din!
The sweet and tender song that springs
From timid Morton’s muted strings,
Small comfort to our spirit brings.
We ask —and lo I from out the strife
He comes —a Bard who gets near Life
With axe or razor, gun or knife!
See, see fand seeing, chew the cud
Of vain regret)— your names are Mud!
He comes ! He comes ! The Bard of Blood 1
He who in one terrific line
Conglomerates the Sacred Nine,
And spilleth Blood as ye spill wine 1
Poets foredone, in vain ye grieve!
Your Master comes ; rise and receive
The sole, unparalleled Bellerive!
N.S.W.
PETRONIUS EARBITER.
VESTMENTS AGAIN AND THE PRICE OF FISH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
To the Editor — Page
Vestments Again (“Anglicanus”) .. .. 7
The Price of Fish (“A Victim”) .. .. 7
—Daily paper index.
The Editor sits on his swivel chair,
While letters come fluttering lightly in;
All sorts of people are clamoring there
And making a terrible noiseless din;
So his attention and space they may win,
With phrases tremendous their themes they dish;
He labels them all with a weary grin—
Thus “Vestments Again” or “The Price of Fish.”
The man who hates chasubles beats the air
And chatters of candles as things of sin;
A practical victim of “rings,” elsewhere
On the track of food, shows his dorsal-fin;
With a bellow of “Sir!” they all begin
And follow it up with a stern “I wish”—
Once started a tortuous yarn they spin
On “Vestments Again” or The Price of Fish.”
For nourishing fish we have time to spare;
For saints’ regalia we care not a pin;
All the latest fashions in altar-wear
They are less to us than a sardine tin;
The waning factions each other may skin,
But sensible pagans will mutter “Pish!”
At “Vestments Again”—which is worn and thin—
And eagerly turn to “The Price of Fish.”
All Alive-o !
Is Paradise nought but a draper’s fair?
Do fancy-dress parsons about it swish?
On questions like these in my easy-ehair
1 brood as I read of “The Price of Fish.”
M>W;
THE RELIGIOUS EDITOR.


■pap
.
Wm
■
§
:
Mm?*'*- I ?' v-S'i~'- :tsfi-.V'. •• -
IN
. -- l «£
A
K
t 'l ' Ml s W
»
#\V
I
•/
/ :
■
"■“■cs*
F
iiisi slj;
:
■ ti
I IBS
: • "" '•
11 IH 9
• 1 :■
IS MM WM>WmWv
■-
£** A >«;»«*
wwbbv** 8 ** 4 *- a
I (R BB BBtfe
i«m»«»b«i y
£222»«*l if
IVMHffo— Is
A
sri
-
■
laa
■
1 ■ BBli
gt •■
'
. »■
CONTINENTAL TYRE PRICES
ARE DOWN AGAIN -
THIS week we announce another and a heavier reduction in the
price of Continental Motor Tyres. This means that by
specifying ** Continentals ” you not only get the most dependable,
but also the lowest price tyres on this market. On top of all this you
will find the \9\\ models better than ever. New lists now ready.
CONTINENTAL C. e G. Rubber Co.
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane,
Launceston, Cbristcburcb (EX Auckland.


Shipping;.
P. and 0. BRANCH SERVICE
For DURBAN, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
* Twin-screw.
SALOON ACCOMMODATION, AMIDSHIPS
CONVERTED INTO VE R Y SUPERIOR
ONE CLASS.
LONDON £l6, £lB and £2O.
CAPETOWN and NATAL £l6 135., £l5 15r. and £l7 17s.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD., 7 Bent St.
Mki.ko'iiink Aoknts : JOHN .SANDERSON & CO..
11l William-street.
Adki.aihr & Fbbmanti.k Agknth : CEO. WILLS & CO.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAND.
ORVIETO ..Twin-Screw
OSTERLEY
OTRANTO .
OTWAY
ORSOVA
ORONTES
OMR AH
OPHIR „
ORAMA (Building')
12,130 Regd. Tons.
12,129
12.124
12,077
12,086
9.023
8,282
6,814
13,000
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy. New and luxurious
12,000-ton Steamers. Cabines-de-luxe ; State-rooms with
bedsteads ; Single Berth Rooms, Private Bathrooms;
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Sailing every fortnight from BRISBANE. SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Eta.,
l2 Martin Place, Sydnky.
Banking-, Public Companies, 4c.
™Bank of ||orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director:
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 4 QUEEN VICTORIA STREET, E.C.
Manager: It. R. LOVE.
Bankers: THE LONDON COUNTY & WESTMINSTER
BANK LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Bank of Dew Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
Total Capital Paid-up £2,000,000
Uncalled Capital £500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits £864,134
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking 1 business.
THE
Australian Bank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL - . . £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,197,127
PAID-UP (31st December, 1910) - - £1,145,983
HEAD OFFICE—George and King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE—2 King William Street, EC.
DIRECTORS—Sir William P. Manning, Ivt., Chairman ;
George J. Sly, Esq., LL. D. ; Ciias. 11. Myles, Esq. ;
Mark Sheldon, Esq. ; Arthur S. Barton, Esq.; Frank
-V. Yarwood, Esq.
I h"' riches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
V w Zealand, and all the principal towns.of the world.
A. P. STEWART, General Manager.
The ...
Qjeensland National Bank,
Limited
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 2921.
Subscribed Capital .. £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 413,484 8 10
l!."-erve (in Gov. Stock) 94,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock . 3,091,669 4 5
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
Directors: JAS. MILNE, Esq., Chairman; JAMES
MUNRO, Esq. ; Hon. A. J. CALLAN, Esq., M.L.C •
JOHN CAMERON, Esq. ; F. LORI), Esq.
General Manager—W. V. RALSTON.
Branches—London, Sydney & throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. £519,237 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. .. 161,384 0 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) ... 75,500 0 0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE. ■■■ ’ " -
". Mngr.: Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr.: E. H. Matthews'
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C. ’
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
The Colonial mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and
Annuities without Mutual Liability; also !
Accident and Sickness Assurance.
Hkad Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds. £3,219,446.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £5,300,000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
piling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Officf, for New South Wai.rs ;
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G.. M.L.C.', Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Shipping:.
REDUCED FARES
To EUROPE
BY
N ord -Oeutscher Ivloyd.
PASSENGERS booked to Egypt. Naples,
Genoa, Algiers, Marseilles, Gibraltar,
London, Antwerp, and Bremen.
w Fitted with “ Wireless ” installation.
* Fitted with Gymnasium.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
REGULAR FOUR-WEEKLY MATL
SERVICE from Sydney and Brisbane, rid
New Guinea, by Twin-screw Steamers.
1 ( or Passage and Full Particulars apply to—
LOHMANN <& CO.. General Agents,
7 & 9 Bridge Street, Sydney ;
OSTERMEYER DEWEZ & VAN ROMPACY, Melbourne •
H. MLJECRE & CO., Adelaide;
L. RATAZZI & CO., Perth and Fremantle;
IHOS. BROWN & SONS, Ltd., Brisbane and Townsville.
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS—New
Senes. IV., V.. VI. Packet of Twelve,
Cd. ; Packet of Ten, sd. Forwarded Post Free
to any address.
THC AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth and
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLINC AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
o Fitted Wireless Telegraphy,
t New Steamer. * Not taking Passengers.
FARRS— Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. ... From £57 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Special Return Tickets available for outward passage
by Orient Line—£ll2 (First-class each way); £B5
(Second-class Orient).
ROUND THR WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the hisrhest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
DALCETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN, PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
fsd
Twin-screw Steamers.
MEDIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
July 5.
AFRIC, 15,000 tons, to sail about
August 2.
SUEVIC, PERSIC and RUNIC to follow.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy and
Submarine Signalling Apparatus.
Only One Class of Accommodation.
FARES—Capetown or Durban £l5 15 0 to £24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
Melbourne . .. .. 1 10 0
New York, Boston, Quebec,
Montreal, &c. from 25 0 0
Pamphlets and all other information on application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Dav of Sailing,
DALGETY & COMPANY, Ltd.,
. Agents in Australia.
YOUR WINTER
HOLIDAY.
OEND for our Booklet, “Papua and the
Pacific Islands, How to visit them?”
describing many delightful Island trips from
upwards. Most attractive as Winter
Holiday Cruises.
-i
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., 11
Bridge St., Sydney.
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES,
HEAD OFFICE: MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
' MONEY TO LEND
To Farmers and Settlers from £5O to £<>ooo
repayable by instalments extending over 30 year
with right to repay loan without penalty.
Partial repayments on favorable terms.
Low rates of interest.
Valuation Fees on lowest scale.
On Investment up to £25,C00 for fixed terms not
exceeding fi \e years on Freeholds or Certificated C.P’s.
and Associated C. I/s. Interest payable half-yearly.
Right to repay one-fifth of principal each year
allowed.
Lowest current rates of interest.
Full particulars and forms of application for loans oh;ainable'at any Branch'oV'Vost
Crown Lands Agents and at the Head Office, aiOORE STREET. SYDNEY.
Office A<rency, or from
J. 11. Daviks. Secretary.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability -
DIRECTORS:
fsd
£2,913,820
£1,950,000
£2,913,820
£7,7 77,640
The Hon. O. K. MaoKellar, M. L, C., President.
Senator The Hon. Janies Thomas Walker,
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Backhand, Esq. <
Richard Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Norniand MacLaurin, lit., M.L.C.
Auditors: Alfred Milson, Esq. ; William Harrington Palmer, Esq.' ’ ‘
Head Office—George St., Sydney. London Office—64- Old Broad St EC
With 330 Branches in all the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji and Papua (New South Wales lds, Victoria 38,
Queensland 49 South Australia 5, West Australia 11, New Zealand 54, Tasmania, Fiji 3, Papua 2
: an . d , 4»ents amF Oorrespondents throu-rhout the United Kinadom, Europe, India, China, Japan’
and th-East, Africa, Canada, thfc Cnifced States, South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
~ omittances made to, ? nd % ft " dl£ f' n ?"• Forei «-n Places DIRECT. Foreign Bills negotiated and
collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
J- RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
Tie Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney , Limited.
Capital Paid-up £1,500,000 0 0
Reserve Fund ... ... 1,420,000 0 0
Reserve Capital 1,500,000 0 U
£4,420,4)00 0 0
DIRECTORS ,
George J. Cohen, Esq. .. .. /Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Eater, M.L.C. .. ... Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C. A. J. Onslow Thompson, Esq.
i Hon. James Bohns, M.L.C.
Auditors : E. S. Cape, Esq., and F. W. Hixson, Esq.
General Manatrer: T. A. Dhsbs.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
H. H. Massik.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
Manager : A. J. Soutar.
Accountant: W. It. Sayers.
Secretary: M. S. Grant.
Branch Accountant: J. Clayton.
Inspectors :
W. C. B. Tilby, W. H. Pinhey.
London Office: 18 Birchin - Lane.
Directors : F. H. Dangar, Esq. ; Hon. 11. S. Littleton ;
N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manager, F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
ACCIDENT, FIRE
and GENERAL
The METROPOLITAN
INSURANCE COMPANY, LIMITED.
THE CO-OPERATIVE FIRE OFFICE.
Shares Issued to Contributors of Business.
When Your Premium is Due Get Full Particulars.
HEAD OFFICE: 30 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
BRANCHES: Victoria, S. Aus., Queensland.
■y.y : . v ■:' «K' *3St- wM ..•- - ' t
‘ COAGULINE,’ ‘ KLINX,’ ‘TENASITINE’
Cements for breakages, manufacturing purposes, etc.
THE OCEAN
Accident & Guarantee
Corporation Limited,
Ocean House, 22 Moore Street, Sydney.
I7IIRE, ACCIDENT, WORKMEN’S COM-
- PENSA'I’ION, PUBLIC RISK, BUR-
GLARY and PLATE GLASS INSURANCES
at Lowest Rates.
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.,
FOR
Ordinary 8 Industrial Life Assurance.
Directors:
H. Montgomerie Hamilton, Esq., Chairman.
Victor E. Ludlow, Esq., L.R.0.5.1., L.ICQ.C.P.T.
Claude Manning, Esq,
John F. Ure, Esq.
General Manager: J. A. Henderson.
Secretary: Consulting Actuary:
Freeman J. Eaton. W. R. Day, F.I.A.
Head Office:
30 CASTLEREACH ST. (facing Moore St.), SYDNEY.
Queensland: Victoria;
Metropolitan Buildings, 48 Queen St.,
Adelaide St., Brisbane. Melbourne.
The “Metropolitan” always has vacancies on its
Agency Staff for reliable and trustworthy men.
“LINSEED COMPOUND ” of 40 years’ proven
efficacy, for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis, etc.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE r.o .arid from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports*
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
FREMANTLE.
Translnppinjr at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
GfiRALDTON (W.A.)
BRISBANE
MACKAV
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Claims.
S.S. Kafiovvna, July 22
(To Freni mtle wnJiouC
crahshipinenfc),coyiieul-
insr 9 with Koombana
in Fremantle for North
West Ports.
S.S. Gran tala. July 1.
(Fitted Wireless Tele-
graphy.)
S.S. Wollowra, July 8.
Best and Cheapest Route to Goldfields,
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, .vhich can be ascertained
on application at theOompany's Olfice.
G. S. YUILL Sc CO., LTD.,
Atrents, 6 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL. MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-ItED ROUTE.
To VANCOUVER, via BRISBANE,
FIJI, and HONOLULU, thence
by Rail to any part of CANADA
or UNITED STATES.
The Best Route to Europe.
SAILINGS :
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
* Via Auckland, New Zealand ; omits Brisbane.
Illustrated Pamphlets Free on Application.
Agents throughout' Canada, United States
and Europe—Canadian Pacific Railway Co.
For full particulars apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD. '
Managing Agents, 259 George-screet, Sydney.
r.—h.—s.
Federal-Houlder-Shire Lines.
STEAM TO LONDON
Via SUEZ CANAL.
S.S. “FIFESHIRE,”
10,000 Tons. E. T. Crkmer., Commander.
Will be despatched from SYDNEY about sth July
„ „ MELBOURNE „ Bth July
„ „ „ ADELAIDE „ nth July
The saloon accommodation consists of all two-berth
cabins on the upper deck, situated amidships.
The superior third-class accommodation, comprised of
two, four and eight-berth cabins, situated on the lUaiil
deck, amidships, with dining: room on the Upper deck.
Well lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious deck 4 #.
Third-class passengers supplied with fresh provisions
from cool chamber throughout the voyage. Surgeon and
Stewardess carried. Electric light throughout. Return
and Round Trip tickets issued via Cape and (or) Siteis
routes. Prepaid passages arranged.
Saloon. Third Class.
FARES.. .. £49 10s. £13135. £15155. £17 175.
Steerage fares from Brisbane One Guinea extra.
To be followed at regular four-weekly intervals by fast
twin-screw passenger steamers. For further information,
illustrated books, pamphlets, etc., apply to
BIRT & CO., Ltd., Sydney ;
TURNBULL, MARTIN & CO., Brisbane:
H. JONES & CO.. Ltd., Hobart;
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN & Co., Ltd., itfelbourne;
ELDER, SMITH & Co., Ltd.. Adelaide.
EXECUTORS
“THE TRUSTEES,
* AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Coliine-et., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. .. .. £90,000 OSO
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £40,000 0 0
Dirbctoks : R. Murray Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Chairman ;
John Grice, Esq., Vice-Chairman ; Hon. J. M. Pratt: J. H.
MacFarland, Esq., M.A., LL.D. : Alexander M'Cracken.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
v EORGE HOTEL,
* St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
Grand Central Hotel
ADELAIDE
To be opened on the 20th JUNE, 1911.
THIS Hotel is the best appointed in the Common-
wealth. CENTRAL AND COMFORTABLE.
Magnificent Dining Hall, Elegant Drawing-
room, Spacious Winter Garden and Lounges, Pro-
menade and Garden Roof, and Sumptuous. Guest
Apartments. EXCELLENT CUISINE.
Private Dinners, Afternoon Teas, At Homes and
Wedding Parties a Specialty.
Hot and cold water throughout. Elevators work-
ing day and night. One minute from Electric Car.
Tariff from 1.2/- per day.
D. WALKER BELL, Manager.
WHENEVER you see a bear with a Con-
tinent on his back, think of THE LONE
HAND. It’s swag is a Continent,


The Elite
Eau deColoqne
-aA
SlE^ude’Colo&ne
lillUllllllil m mu, iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiinii'iiiiUHl^M'lllHllf* 1 *^ I^^^
f.wolff&Soi-in
‘Karlsruhe
Baden
mgm
Wiis i
Triumph of
Modern Science
Obtainable from all leading establishments
BOVRIL
V
Tickles the Palate
FOP YOL'JJ BOOTS & SHOES-
MELTONIAN
In Black
or Brown.
PASTE
“The World’s Boot Polish.’
m
MADE. oY M
L. BROWN §
AY THEIR MU.T9MIAN BLACAIMC HAMVfACT*RY M
7 «*AMttCK ST COH9ON.W.C JF/
2* *VC BERCEfIE
a
SSS
TtiS“be*t and also the cheapest Paste Polish on
the market for cleaning, polishing and pre-
serving all kind* of Leather Boot*. Shoes, etc.
SOLD EVERYWHERE,
E BROWN & SON, Ltd., LONDON, Eng.
“LINSEED COMPOUND”— -Trade Mark of Kay’s
Compound Essence of Linseed for Coughs and Colds.
DILLMDDS
r
IS
ms
/
imk
50 years ago the name of Alcocfc was practically unknown —to-day
it is synonymous with billiards. Why ?
They have always maintained that high standard of excellence,
so scientifically and accurately constructed their tables, cues, etc., that
it is no wonder that the popularity of Alcock T ables has grown so
much.
Gray and many other prominent players have made many of
their largest breaks on an “Alcock,” and are therefore prompt to
proclaim these tables as perfect in every respect.
We make them in all sizes and styles—the “ Biiou ” table is a
special favorite for the home.
Write us for Illustrated Cata’ogue—we supply every billiard
requisite.
ALCOCK & CO. Ply. Ltd..
Billiard Table Manufacturers,
397 George St., Sydney. 7 King William St., Adelaide. Baker Buildings,
Featherstone St., Wellington. 155 Elizabeth St., Melbourne. 114 Edward St.,
Brisbane. Murray St., Perth. £1
ENO S ‘FRUIT SALT’
A HOUSEHOLD REMEDY FOR
All Functional Derangements of the Liver, Tempo-
rary Congestion arising from Alcoholic Beverages,
Errors in Diet (Eating or Drinking), Biliousness,
Sick Headache, Giddiness, Vomiting, Heartburn,
Sourness of the Stomach, or Constipation. It is
a Refreshing and Invigorating Beverage, most
Invaluable to Travellers, Emigrants, Sailors, and
Residents in Tropical Climates.
Eno's ‘FECIT Salt’ assists the Functions of the Liver, Bowels. Skin, and Kidneys
by Natural Means. There is no doubt that, where it has been taken in the earliest
stages of a disease, it has, in innumerable instances, preventea a serious illness.
CAUTlON.— Examine the Capsule and see that it is marked ENO'S ‘FRUIT SALT,'
otherwise you have the sincerest form of fIattery—IMITATION.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO Ltd.. ‘FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, London,
S.E., Eng., by J. C. ENO'S Patent.
Sold by Chemists and Stores everywhere.
The Famous Beard’s British Bioscope
f
Illustrated Song Slides.
The largest and the finest stock
in the Commonwealth. Call or
send for particulars.
This splendid machine has a reputation second to none.
For absolute dependability, ease of operation and
fool-proof mechanism, it stands at the head of the
orocession.
Price £37 lOs.
CINEMATOGRAPH ACCESSORIES.
We have everything- you want, for we are the up-to-
date house in this line.
DAYLIGHT SCREENS.
We can supply them. Call and inspect, or write for
particulars.
Kelvin Portable
Engine and Dynamo.
Acknowledged the best in the world. A fine
set at a low price. We are Sole Agents.
JERDAN’S
«* Leading Cinematograph
Specialists,”
393 George Street
(Facing
Royal Hotel),
Sydney,
Wfcen its a UPetz.
ash her fyTo,
sdfds
It’s positively the
only way to make
sure of satisfaction.
I know, you know.
I’m Onoto, the Pen.
I never refuse to
write when you want
me to, I never splut-
ter nor scratch.
I am made by
British labour. But
that isn’t the end of
the story.
—I fill myself in a flash without
filler or moss
—I clean myself in filling
—I never leak
—I am fitted with a gold nib—
iridium pointed-that will last.
These are the merits that make me
the pen of the day, that have given the
past three years complete satisfac-
tion to tens of thousands of users—my
most cordial friends.
12/- wisely spent at your stationer’s
to-day will enable you to join the barn!
of Onoto users. Spend it to-day, and
make a life-long friend of
C 6
e
Booklet about me will be sent free to all
Interested on application to T. DE LA RUE
& CO., Ltd., 256 Bunhill Row, London, E 0.,
or the Australasian Representative.
NORMAN BAKER, 60 York Street, Sydney.
FROOTOIDS
Cure Headache, Indigestion, Constipa-
tion, and Biliousness. They are elegant
in appearance and pleasant* to take;
they are immensely more valuable than
an ordinary aperient; they remove from
the blood, tissues, and internal, organs,
waste poisonous matter that is clogging
them and choking the channels that lead
to and from them. Frootoids are
THE BEST
aperient medicine to take when any
Congestion or Blood Poison is present,
or when Congestion of the Brain or
Apoplexy is present or threatening. They
have been tested, and have been proved
to afford quick relief in such cases when
other aperients have not done any good
at all. Frootoids are absolutely un-
rivalled for
FAMILY
use ; their beneficial effects are evident
by the disappearance of headache —a
bright cheery sense of perfect health
taking the place of sluggish depressed
feelings, by the liver acting properly, and
by the food being properly digested.
Frootoids are a very economical
MEDICINE.
A dose taken once a week, at bed-time,
is highly beneficial. They act splendidly
on the Liver. A constipated habit of
body will be completely cured if the
patient will on each occasion, when
suffering, take a dose of Frootoids in-
stead of an ordinary aperient. The
sufferer thus gradually becomes quite
independent of Aperient Medicines.
Price 1/6. From all Chemists and
Medicine Vendors, and W. G. Hearne &
Co., Ltd., Geelong, Victoria.
FROM SOUTH AFRICA.
fsd
TWO TIPS witb
OSPREY.
Black, White,
Cream, and Black
ipped with White
Length, 9inches.
5/ The Bunfih,
/” Post Free.
We make this Special Offer to
advertise our Ostrich Tips. Write
to-day. Send Postal Note.
Catalogue Free.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY; also at
Corner of Bourkeand Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention The Bulletin.] [3
Millars’ Karri 8 Jarrah
Co. (1902), Ltd.
We Supply— ■
JARRAH Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’ Scant-
ling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
72 BISHOPSGATE STREET WITHIN,
LONDON,: E.O.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.*:
68* PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N. S. W. ji
Branches in all parts of the worlcf.


Wi
il
Weak
Digestion.
Hazeldell, Crossover, Gippsland, Vic.
Dear Sirs, —My little daughter was suffering from weak digestion and simply
wasting away. After taking part of a bottle of Angier’s there was a marvellous
change, and by the time it was finished she was quite a different child. She is
now able to eat and digest anything. It appears to have quite restored the
digestive organs and she is getting plump and strong, whereas before she was
just a skeleton. You are welcome to use this acknowledgment, as I would be
pleased to be the means of inducingunothhrs to try it for their delicate children.
(Signed) EMA NEALE-COX.
ANGIEKOMULSION
Emulsion soothes and strengthens the digestive organs and greatly
Improves digestion, assimilation and nutrition. Pleasant to take and a splendid tonic
and builder, it is unequalled in digestive disorders, lung troubles and wasting diseases,
whether of adults or children. The little ones in particular like it and do splendidly on
it. It makes them eat better, digest better, sleep better, and rapidly gain in weight,
strength and colour. Of Chemists, 1/3, 2/9 and 4/6.
A FREE SAMPLE
sent on receipt of 4d. postage. Mention this paper.
I THE ANGIER CHEMICAL CO.. Ltd.. 7 Barrack St.. Sydney.
f
sdf
sd
/
1<
e
so
iff
Ready-
to-Wear
or
Made-
to-Ordcr,
7/6
THESE PYJAMA SUITS are made of
Osman Flannelette. They are well
and comfortably cut, and are made
in our own electrically-equipped workrooms.
We have a fine stock in all sizes, but if
you send your measurements we’ll make
yours to order.
At the same price ? Yes, sir !
Send for a couple of Suits and test the
Finney Service. For clothing needs “you
can’t beat Finney’s.”
Finney, Isles U Co.
limited,
The Big
Block,
BRISBANE.
ASTHMA'
TRADE
MARK
In Asthma
Freeman’s Chlorodyne
is a veritable life-saver.
The terrible wheezing and choking quickly yield to a few doses
of Freeman’s, and perseverance with it will effect a lasting cure.
Excellent also for Colds* Influenza, Bronchitis, Spasms, Diarrhoea, Colic, &c.
Recommended by Doctors for sixty-five years. Price 1/li, 2/9 and 4/6 per bottle.
Be sure to get FREEMAN’S the original Chlorodyne 'TSBIiI
If your Chemist is 11 is au ideal remedy-keep it handy,
out of stock, order
a bottle, he can
quickly get it.
NEVER accept
imitations.
FREEMAN’S
CHLORODYNE
IN
BANANA LAND
Bishop Barnes, Queensland’s Treasurer,
is a pillar of strength among the righteous,
and is horrified to hear of Sunday football,
Sabbath cricket and similar iniquities. None
the less, the Government boat Lucinda is
used for holding Sunday Cabinet meetings
down the bay. But probably the Sabbath
Cabinet opens with prayer.
Died in Sydney on June 19 Captain F.
G. Lee, a well-known Torres Strait pilot.
He was for many years in the employ of the
A.S.N. (afterwards A.U.S.N.) Co., and
when he quitted that service in 1900 was
commodore of the fleet. For the last 11
years he has been showing vessels the way
to dodge the rocks of the Barrier Reef.
The Anti-Sosh Government of Banana-
land has further shown its profound dis-
respect for its own creed by supplying a
Socialistic bull to the Anti-Sosh farmers of
Atherton. And the Anti-Sosh farmers ex-
press their gratitude, instead of telling
Ministers to. take the ravening monster
away, and save their homes from ruin and
their marriage ties from being burst to
shreds.
Premier Denham urges that the compre-
hensive Liquor Reform Bill, which is to be
tlife first measure next session, should not be
considered on party lines. It is always in-
teresting to hear a party leader throwing
mud in this way at the -system which got
him his job and keeps it for him. Still, if
Parliament, in connection with the first
measure of the sessipn, is to be asked -to
obliterate party lines, why not go the whole
animal 1 and obliterate party lines in the Cab-
inet? Or doss Denham still approve of
party lines when it’s a matter of riding in
the coach, and does he only disapprove when
it’s a matter of- pushing it out of a bog?
Wullie Kidston gets the unearned incre-
ment of an LL.D. degree from the new
Brisbane University for “distinguished ser-
vices” in founding that institution. As a
matter, of fact, the establishment of a
Queensland University was delayed year
after year by the strenuous opposition of
Kidston, who always put technical educa-
tion to the fore. The politician in the Mor-
gan and Kidston Administrations who did
persistently and zealously and at all times
advocate the claims of a University was the
late Joey Bell; and honorary degrees have
ceased to concern him.
The A.W.U. at Longreach has recorded
its vehement condemnation of . the Govern-
ment’s State-aided immigration policy, and
has called on the Denham Cabinet to stop
the “reckless pouring of immigrants” into
Bananaland. The “reckless pouring” con-
sists in introducing per annum about one
European to every 100 square miles; and
if 100 square miles, mostly unoccupied,
can’t absorb one extra person a year, then
there is something very rotten about the
way the estate is handled. If the Jap col-
lars Northern Australia through a paucity
of white defenders, he will introduce settlers
in a very different fashion.
The sale of sugar land up at Inisfail, in
I the North, at £5O an acre, is of course further
proof of the ruin brought on the industry
by the withdrawal of black and yellow labor.
The Fat crowd knew all along how it would
be —;just as Spoof Smith knows how, it will
be in the Northern Territory.
The Rockhampton Show banquetters
i cheered themselves hoarse over a statement
i that “the people in Central Queensland are
the wealthiest in the world.” The local
statistician figured it out that 100,000
people owned 8,500,000 sheep, besides other
trifles, and that the export trade last year
was £2,500,000 from the pastoral industry
alone. Rockhampton thought all this was
the best of reasons for sticking peacock!*
feathers in its tail and strutting proudly.
Some day, when it is cabled that Britain is
in trouble, and the Asiatic is looking down
towards Northern Australia, Rockhampton
will wish it had 5,500,000 people to 100,000
sheep.
CLEARING HIMSELF.
MRS. GREENEYE : “No, sir. Ido not believe you were at the office until this hour. For
nil I know yoffve been gadding about with some wretched woman."
GREENEVE (pained and hurt): “M’ dear, I'm ’stonish at you. Would’n do sush a thing.
Jush to prove it, I'll introdush v’ to her, an' yer can ASK”
The Brisbane River between Brisbane and
Ipswich has silted up so much of late that it
|is not navigable at low water. In some
| places there is only 3ft. of moisture, which
I is less than half of what there used to be.
! A deputation talked to State Treasurer
Barnes about it lately, and begged him to
| put a dredge on —with the object, of course,
! of makipg the competition -with the State
railway a few points keener.
There isn’t much about the rocky Queens-
land coast that the Jap. doesn’t know; but
when the Government offered £lOOO for lo-
cating the Yongala, he grabbed the chance
to nose round a little more. Within a
month, according to the Brisbane port-
master (Captain Mackay), the little man
with the spying eye had “thoroughly searched
every reef from Flinders Passage to Bowen.”
He didn’t win the £1000; but no doubt he
added a few valuable topographical items to
his already bulky album.
The Bottle’s A-Boom.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The land is all buzzing with stir and with strife,
In ev’ry gay corner there’s bustle and life;
Sir Fat is a-s:niling, for dollars roll in,
And ev’ryone’s laughing with lashin’s of tin ;
llut over the hum of the Mart and the Bourse, '
And over the roar of the Street and the Course,
There rings a mad cry that is fatal tq Gloom—
“ The Bottle’s a-boom!”
In vain are your homilies, brother, in vain!
The liquor will run in Prosperity’s train;
And lie who is reaching the top of the tree
Is never content we should toast him in tea :
So make up your mind that wherever you go
The flagons will ring when our fortune’s a-flow,
For ’twill always be so when affairs are in bloom‘- r
The Bottle will boom !
With some ’tis enough to sing out Hip-Hurrah!
And some can get festive on cocoa or spa !
The nigger will build up a whale of a feast i
Arid stuff himself full for a fortnight at least;
When Fate has been kind to his lowly kow-tow,
A puff at the pipe is the joy of the Chow.
But here, when rejoicing hath reason and room,
The Bottle will boom.
QUEENSLAND.
F.B.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, June 24, 1911.
My Dear Titargomindah,—
Rain spoiled the second edition of the chil-
dren’s Coronation pageant on Monday, and
the miniature earls, bishops, duchesses and
other remarkable characters huddled in the
grandstand amongst plebeian folk, who unan-
imously passed a vote of censure on Provi-
dence. Add to that the fact that neither
Premier Denham nor Mayor Diddams found
a title on the breakfast table, and you can
imagine the mournful celebration here of
George V.’s crowning. In most parts of
Australasia it appears to have been a study
in creep ; here, it was a study in crepe.
Some consolation vus afforded by the Mac-
gregor ball, to which about 3200 persons were
invited. The revel outclassed anything of
its kind yet attempted in Brisbane, and the
decorations of the Museum Hall were mag-
nificent. Fourteen tons of palms were
brought from Nambour to beautify the
rooms, and, with the addition of red, white
and blue streamers, crimson bells, lanterns,
electric lights and festoons of laurel, they
produced an enchanting sbene. Lady Mac-
gregor smiled her welcome in a pearl-grey
frock, silver embossed, and topped by her
Sunday-best tiara ; the Vision was in shim-
mering blue ; and the plumage worn by sev-
eral of Society’s Paradise ducks supplied the
social columns with matter for days. But the
velvet outfit of Justice Real and the Wind-
sor uniform of Orris Tozer took my eye.
What a business they would do with a col-
lection box on Hospital Saturday!
Next day Wee Macgregor and his lady
“shook” with all who cared to present them-
selves at the University Grounds. There
was a huge muster, and all the tea ran out,
and there wasn’t any beer, or even cham-
pagne, and, as nobody appeared to want
water, no matter how much they needed it,
a great thirst was upon the multitude. The
assuaging of a multitude’s thirst seems to
be a long-unsolved problem, for even on a
memorable occasion when a few fishes and
loaves were made to satisfy the crowd’s hun-
ger, there is no record of anything being ob-
tainable to wet its whistle. But to return
to the Macgregors’ gathering. Her Ex.
again wore grey, and I have a cheerful sus-
picion that it was the skirt of the night be-
fore, with another bodice. Miss Blue Eyes
donned a pretty amethyst robe, and did
Trojan service in making people comfort-
able. The new A.D.G. was also to the
fore, especially when one agitated personage
handed up a tram ticket instead of his card.
The levee on Thursday was as dull as any
respectable levee is expected to be, and the
“service” in the Exhibition Grounds, where
1500 people ground out Gor’-save, was akin
to the lot of the exile from the old folks at
home—sad and dreary. The fireworks after
dark set alight to the only enthusiasm of the
day.
Why complain about the birth-rate? It
seems to your Mario to be all right; for on
Friday it was impossible to get about for in-
fants. Two contending armies of them —one
heading for the Exhibition Grounds, and the
other streaming for the South Brisbane
Cricket Ground —rushed the SAveets shops,
packed into trams until their legs and Avings
hung out of the windoAA's, and shrilled the
atmosphere with high crescendos. In the
evening they sAvarmed back upon the city,
a medal on their upper chest and many buns
Avithin their lower, like locusts from a cane-
field. The adult pedestrian Avas sAvept into
the back streets to pad the hoof home, while
despairing mothers shooed their broods with
hoarse cries through the main aA r enues of
the city.
A recent visit by a Ministerial party to
the Hospital for the Insane, at Goodna, dis-
closed a pretty state of affairs in regard to
a possible fire outbreak. On appearances, if
a strong blaze got to work the chances of
rescuing the herring-packed inmates uncooked
Avould be hardly worth considering. Imme-
diate improAmment has been promised; but
what fs really required is a remodelling of
the building.
The tennis-playing Thurlow family had a
day out on the last afternoon of the Brisbane
tennis tournament. Mrs. Thurlow and tier
daughter won the Ladies’ Doubles Handi-
cap ; she and her son Avon the Mixed
Doubles Handicap; and the son and St.
John, the Banana land singles champion, got
into the final of the Men’s Doubles Handi-
cap, which was left unfinished. The same
pair had won the Doubles Championship on
the previous Saturday.
The Government has bought Fernberg,
where Governor Maegregor has lived since
Government House was handed over to the
University. This, however, is not going to
stop the building of a new Government House
in Victoria Park. The latter building av ill
be up in about three years; plans are being
prepared now.
Yours affectionately.
MARIO.
Some horse-exhibitors at Rockhampton’s
annual show sot a sudden jerk the other
day, when the State’s official vet. passed out
horses that owned a life certificate for
soundness issued by another State. The
Government expert broke into the chorus of
growls by asking how anybody knew for
certain that the certificates were issued to
these horses; and he followed that by re-
marking that to grant a life-certificate for
soundness was a big order, anyway. The
Government makes more or less sure; that
Ah Sin who gets his paper shall! not
pass it on to Ah Grin, by compelling Ah
Sin to brand the document with his finger-
print ; but no satisfactory way of taking
the finger-print of the Pride of the Plains
has yet been invented.


The World’s Record Billiard Player,
SAYS
IS THE MOST HEALTHFUL DRINK
•TO
M i
Vi
l'
:> ' x - /
<i / i
%
A
m
' !///
tI CA7
Wia
OKTROU
GOLV
Specially approved
and recommended
as a pure product
by the BRITISH
ANALYTICAL
CONTROL.
A body formed to protect’, the
food supplies of the public of
the United Kingdom.
0
m
VI Ml SKY
©RANDY
WINE OR
USt
rr BEER o>
MAKES A
WATER I
DELICIOUS
LfMOM4Ol|
* ORINK *>
ALIO T
BEST
COCO
LIQUEUR
AT TEA MEALS
Sbrcd by *3
JDixon&O
m ,OH 5T
A GREAT CURE
FOR INDIGESTION
9
SEE THAT YOU GET THIS BOTTLE.
GOLD MEDAL and
DIPLOMA,
Paris Exhibition,
Internationale,
1909 .
GEORGE GRAY’S PLAY.
THIS young Australian boy in play is a veritable Napoleon—iron-nerved, calm
and collected. After his big breaks, when the tension of the audience bursts
into wild excitement, and everybody wants to pat his back, or shake his
hand, he is the coolest and least concerned person in the room. After getting the
balls into position, he scores with ease and precision, without having to move more
than 18 inches from the spot Where he stands, and very rarely making usfe of a rest.
This ease in play was bemoaned by one of his opponents, who said that in
making his own comparatively small breaks he had to use the long rest and the
short rest, and to walk about five miles around the room, backwards and forwards,
from one side of the table to the other!
As may be imagined, to possess such nerves young Gray is temperate in the
matter of drink, and on this subject he thus expresses himself: —
“In order to keep in my best form, I have to be very particular in matters
of food and drink, so that my nerves and general health shall always be at their
best.
“At all times I drink ‘O.T.,’ because I have found it to be the only satis-
factory non-alcoholic drink, being best for my health, and this means every-
thing to me.
“During a match I find ‘O.T.’ the very best beverage, because it is so
warming, stimulating, and wonderfully refreshing; and being without alcohol
it does not affect the eye, hand, or nerves.
“I make a point of having ‘O.T.’ wherever I go in my travels and
matches, because experience has proved its value to me.”
GEORGE GRAY’S BIGGEST BREAKS.
12 00 ( 894 and 279 off the red), v. E. Diggle, Nottingham, Jan. 5 and 6, 1911.
1318 (1314 off the red), v. E. Diggle, Nottingham, Jan. 0 and 7, 1911.
1340 (330 off the red), v. J. Duncan, Cardiff, Jan. 28, 1911.
1402 (*1335 off the red), v. E. Diggle, at Manchester, Feb. 7, 1911.
+1576, v. G. Nelson, at Southampton, March 1 and 2, 1911.
£2196 (unfinished), v. Harverson, at Holborn-hall, March 18, 1911.
* Red ball record (445 consecutive shots),
f Break record.
$ 1620 off the red ball, 540 consecutive shots ; red ball record.
O.T. is derived from Fruits and Herbs recognised for their nutritive and
beneficial properties, and having essentials favorable for the blending of a
delicious, healthful drink. Agreeable to the palate, and distinguished for
its favorable effects on the constitution, O.T. is an every-day beverage that
can be taken at all times with happy results. It is always a safe and
desirable form of refreshment for use at Home, at the Club, at the Bar.
CONSIDER THE BENEFITS YOU
OBTAIN FROM O.T.
AVINQ the same warming, exhilarating and cheering effects as
spirituous liquors, but being without any intoxicating quality, O.T.
is the happy medium between a soft and a hard drink, and the
nearest approach to a substitute for alcohol that has ever been produced.
Full-bodied, new and distinctive in character, charming in flavor, not too
sweet, not gassy, its taste grows on you, and after the first bottle you just
begin to fully appreciate its deliciousness.
Added to water (hot or cold), Ginger Ale or Soda Water,
O.T. improves the flavor and forms a blend- more grateful and mors powerful
in allaying thirst. A dash of O.T. improyes.the flavor of Whisky, Schnapps
or Gin in a remarkable manner, arid lessens their intoxicating effect.
In all seasons O.T. has excellent qualities to recommend it, but for the
Winter it is specially suitable, as it is the only non-alcoholic drink capable
of promoting warmth. Its stimulating effect on a cold day improves the
circulation and promotes the warmth in the body necessary to ward off
Colds and Chills. Taken in time, it will counteract the effects of a Chill and
drive out a Cold that may be coming on you. It is invaluable to athletes,
outdoor workers, and to those working, travelling or driving at night.
O.T. has excellent properties as a stomachic, and is of the greatest
service in promoting appetite, helping digestion and assimilation, and
enabling you to obtain the greatest benefit from the food you eat. Drink in
some form is indispensable to the solution and digestion of food, and,
because of its beneficial influence, O.T. is without doubt orie of the best
meantime drinks. No beverage sits so agreeably on the stomach, so
refreshens the system, or forms a more grateful repast. As a liqueur after
meals, O.T. is more efficacious and has more value as a digestive than
many so-called liqueurs, and, not containing alcohol, its use is specially
recommended to ladies.
O.T. has a soothing and tonic effect, arid if you wake up unrefreshed in
the morning, with a furred tongue and a bad taste in the mouth, a glass of
O.T. will clear the digestion, correct the liver and make you fit and well
again. If you suffer from Indigestion arising from errors in diet, Fulness
after Meals, Flatulency or Colic, you have an excellent remedy in O.T.
On a winter night, to promote u healthy glow and ensure a good night’s
rest, a glass of O.T. hot is the best of nightcaps.
If unable to get Genuine O.T. in your locality,
please send us the name .of your Trader.
SOLE, MAKERS of O.T. O.T. LIMITED, Melbourne, Sydney and London.
Distributing Agencies and Branches throughout the World.


Chest Cold
was cured bp
SCOTT’S
Emulsion
when other treatments fail-
ed. Mrs. J. Lennis, 60
Susan Street, Camperdown,
, Sydney, N.S.W., writes that:
“ Other preparations having failed to do
any good, I gave Scott’s Emulsion to
fsd
my daughter, Winifred, aged
10 months, who suffered
from a severe chest cold, and
was very thin and delicate.
After a few doses, she seemed
much brighter, and her
cough ivas less severe, and
now, after only a short
course of ‘Scott’s/ her
cold has disappeared, and
she has grown quite fat and strong. ”
Instead of wasting time,
risking health and therefore
life, with preparations which
fail, give Scott’s Emulsion
at once. Scott’s MUST
help. This CERTAINTY
should be worth to you
many times the price of
Scott’s Emulsion. No
other emulsion has ever re-
ceived the cordial approval
of the medical and nursing
professions the world over,
for preserving children’s
lives. Therefore, don't ask
for “ emulsion ” —ask for
SCOTT’S EMULSION.
Of all Chemists and Dealers in Medicines.
A FAMOUS DOCTOR.
SAMOL
us a successful treatment of Rheumatism, Gout,
Sciatica, and kindred complaints.
Professor Dr. William Turk (University Lecturer
and Imperial Chief Physician, Vienna) says:—
“SAMOL. I have used Samol in my hospital in
various ailments. The ointment has been invariably
used on patients without the slightest irritation to
the skin, and brought about excellent results, par-
ticularly in cases of severe ‘ myalgia (muscular rheu-
matism).”
No remedy sold to the public has received such
recognition from the scientific world.
Samol is sold in tubes, price Is. 6d., 3s. 9d., and
65., and can be ordered through chemists or obtained
direct from the Wholesale Agent, H. A. Goddard,
96a Eagle Street, Brisbane; or 194 Vickery’s Cham-
-bers, 82' Pitt Street, Sydney. [l-
f
w Ho in IS
&* /ni/entorj
Can I Obtain a Patent ?
The quickest wav to ascertain this,
WITHOUT EXPENSE, is to write
to me describing your invention, enclosing a small sketch
where necessary. Nicety of drawing is not essential ;
all that is necessary at first is to give me YOUE IDEA.
I will at once inform you whether the idea is patent-
able, and, if so, give the necessary instructions for
further procedure.
Persons desirous of obtaining really reliable advice or
information regarding Patent matters are cordially in-
vited to consult me personally or by letter. In all cases
a careful consideration of their plans, an honest opinion,
and a prompt reply may be expected.
A. J. CALLINAN, Patent Attorney,
Citizens’ Buildings, Collins Street, Melbourne.
£REME LA FRANCE-
rRFNCH LIQUID COSMETIC.
An Exqi:
'V tifyiiu
Bri
\
FRENCH LIQUID COSMETIC.
An Exquisite Lotion for Beau-
tifying and giving Tone and
Brilliance to the Com-
plexion. It is most
beneficial to those
whose skin is show-,
ihg a tendency to'
become livid or dis-
colored. It softens
a hard, dry skin
Perfectly harmless
to the most delicate
skin. Price 2/6,
Posted 3/~ Obtain-
able from MADAME
LEIGH, Ladies’ Hair-
dresser and Hairworker,
23 The Block Arcade,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Wholesale : DUERDIN AND SAINSBURY, Melbourne.
SSES
HEAP, Second-Hand 15BrakeH.P.
TANGYE GAS ENGINE,
IN GOOD ORDER.
Apply Manager, “BULLETIN” OFFICE,
214 George Street, Sydney.
“ LINSEED COMPOUND” for Coughs and
Colds. Relieves Asthma and difficult breathing.
MEN’S WINTER FOOTWEAR.
A NEW
MODEL.
Price 19/0.
The Glace or Box Balmoral illustrated is the result of the
best shoe-making thought obtainable, applied to the best
mechanical process and worked out in as excellent
leather as the world’s tanneries afford.
Write for our Booklet,
“ SHOELIGHT.”
sdf
LEEMING’S BOOT STORES,
109 Swanston Street, Melbourne. 303 Chapel Street, Prahran.
257-259 Bourke Street, Melbourne. 1 and 3 Errol Street, North Melbourne.
"ABERDEEN” Rugs
are GOOD Rugs !
It pays you well to use them ! They are
wonderfully warm and strong —and give
years of solid wear.
Rugged cows give greater milk yield—
rugged horses are kept fit for hard work.
Use the “Aberdeen” and you’ll have
the most practical and most satisfactory
rug available.
Leading stores. If unobtainable, write
for price list to
sd
fsd
f
Patent Snap
Surcingle.
Fastens quichly
and never slips.
Smith, Copeland &. Co. Ltd
204-200 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
AGENTS: VICTORIA—J. BARTRAM & SON, King Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND-H. I. H. ROSS, Edward Street, Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—C. WHITING, Currie Street, Adelaide.
• 9
nr
'V
SCIENCE
behind it !
PEBECO is a complete scientific health
sourse for the mouth and teeth.
Its alkaline properties correct the acidity of
the saliva, prevent bacterial inroads upon the
teeth and deodorise the breath. Pebeco imparts
a pearly whiteness, arrests decay, removes tartar,
and, by invigorating the tissues, remedies shrink-
ing gums.
PEBECO
Tooth Paste
ia highly antiseptic, and, if regularly used, pre-
vents many diseases of the mouth and throat.
Of all Chemists, etc.
SOLB AORNT
V C ARNOLD, 6 O’Connell St., Sydney.
(Wholesale only.)
P€ B ECO
tooth PAST?
sdf
The World’s Standard
Valveless Engine.
THE life history of a FERRO ENGINE would be
very interesting were we to follow it from its
embryonic stage on the blue prints of the
designers, through the various phases of Infantile
life, till it emerges from the factory to be transported
to some particular spot on old mother earth, to fulfil
its destiny as the WILLING SLAVE OF INDUSTRY.
From icy pole to torrid zone, from far=off Alaska
to Australia, the sun never sets on the “ FERRO.”
THE CURSE OF ADAM has no terrors for the
men who own them. A man must needs sweat, but
he can sweat to better advantage than by yanking a
saw, pump handle or chaffcutter. Turn these jobs
over to the “ FERRO ” ; they are built to do them.
If you do not happen to own one, get busy and
write the nearest agent, who will be only too happy
to suggest the right sweat=preventer for the job.
Made in the following sizes suitable for
Stationary, Portable or Marine use:
3,4, i/z, V/z, 8.11,12,15,17, 25 H.P.
FERRO AGENTS:
Hall Bros., Druitt St., SYDNEY.
Acme Motor & Eng. Co., 355 Lonsdale St., MELBOURNE.
Howard Motor & Cyc j Co., Queen St., BRISBANE.
F. J. Langley, Torrens St. E., ADELAIDE.
L- SIL
Perth Motor House, Hay St., PERTH.
Wearne & Ceard, LAUNCESTON.
Hayward & Garrett, Stuart St., DUNEDIN.
H. T. Whitson & Co., Customs St. W., AUCKLAND
H. T. Moors, APIA, SAMOA.
CAPILLARINE
inaxirimi /iTH i IifUKO
5?
Capillarine Will Grow You a Moustache
notice it has been used and it only wants applying at night before you retire.
Has been on the market for 30 years, and proved its value to thousands.
Price 10/6 a jar to any Address in the World in Plain Package.
I The 0 & A. Moustache-Trainer makes and keeps the mous- j
tache any shape you want it. Worn at night. 2s. 6d. post free. |
ds
fsd
CRAIG & AITKEM,
654 George Street, Sydney.
Established
30 Years.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
j No notice (except of a hostile character) will he
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on MSS. 'iio
liability is undertaken re contributions volun - ,
tarily submitted, whether sent by post or handed
' in; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps
(of any State) accomnany.
Hopscotch: They are song verses only,
and need an accompaniment to hold them up
J.N.8.: Same trouble. Music might save them, but
we haven’t got any on the premises.... N’Dondondo
(Rhodesia): Would require a lot of condensing....
M.lv. (Q.) : Unsuitable Bellerive: The All Red
i Series resumed: —
A DEED OF THE NIGHT.
While peacefully his Wife
And his little ones slept,
Out into the night
A reckless husband crept;
He was shadowed in the st.
By a fie"ce foreigner Bold
From whom he hail fleeced
A large sum of gold.
He clutched the stranger and held
Him in an iron grip,
And exclaimed: “You thought
To give me the slip;
Give me back the money
- You robbed from me,
Give it back, you thief,
Or I’ll do for thee” ;
A desperate struggle ensued
On the lonely roadside,
And the foreigner thrust a knife
(?)
The last line is torn off. Suppose it ended fatally,
as usual. A few suggestions:—
And the foreigner thrust a knife —•
(1) Through the other with pride.
(2) Through his clothes. (Then he died.)
(3) Through his ill-fated hide.
(4) Through his weskit so wide.
PO.: Verses sentenced to basket. Verdict re-
ceived with loud cheers L.J.C.: Unskilful work
Humor very feeble... .A.L.H.: Can’t feed the old
horse out of our manger....M. S-U: Regret all un-
suitable Josh: It embodies a great truth. A lot of
the bush poems are written on the bar counter. Sorry
hardly good enough for use.... Mark R.: Poem is
unsuitable, but we have made a note of your sug-
gestion for decreasing Sydney’s confounded natural
advantages” by draining the harbor. It will be put
before The Bulletin’s Uncivil Engineer when he
recovers from his crowning indisposition. . . .John R.:
We do not desire to publish it. .. .P.J.W.: Can t
make anv Capital out of those Yassberra verses....
Renie: Unable to use it here. Try one of the week-
lies. . . .Teepee: Raw verse. .. .C.J.0.: ‘llie Splin-
ter” is now in a still more awkward place—the
basket Tama-R.: None of them worth while....
Curfew: We guess not Sheoak: Sorry unsuitable.
....Lotus: Two lines:—
Hives where the rich and lowly
All strive but to gain one goal.
Yes, and only score tries. The tragedy of Life’s
football match! Sorry rest of it is dull. ... US.: It
limps lightlv Samnus: The vision faded.....
Jardo: Fairly well rhymed, but a lot of writers have
assailed the same subject with more accomplished
axes and sledgehammers. . . .Ajax: Hardly in our line.
You might place it elsewhere. .. .Bob Em: A cheer-
ful scries of rough charcoal sketches. Some ex-
amples. WALGETT —OUTBACK.
Black mud strews the ground feet deep,
As one plods from pub to pub:
And as last resource turns in and sleep,
Likewise the Barwon fox and cub.
Where the bullockv curses his strong noble weeds,
As his waggon to the' axle will sink: .
Through the black soil amongst the bmdyei reeds,
Whilst the jackeroos look on and wink.
Where the fencer digs from daylight to dark,
And stretches the deadly barbed wire:
\t home he is from the Citv shark
And contented alone by his gidgee fire.
Takapau : Bulletin postage to all places outside
the British Empire is 2id. .. . W.C.C.: Sorry, cant
say Hawksburn: Better advise your Labor mem-
ber to barrack for more liberal assistance to people
to build their own houses. The State could advance
money at a rate which would allow a person to buy
a house in 20 years for a smaller weeeklv sum than
he now pays in rent for the mere use of the same or
a poorer* Bclass 8 class of dog-box . .C.R.S : Lone Hanp
postage is Ad. for Boz. within Australia; to United
?<ingdbm Id. for 8oz„ 2Ad. for 10oz„ and every ad-
ditional 2oz„ Ad Maorilander: Ewan Camerons
address—Shields Hills, Myponga, S.A. ‘A* Webb-
Can’t undertake to return reiected pais....B. Webb.
Not a new thought in it, nor a new dresa for an old
thought. _____
“Ah”: There are more “scabs” in unions
nowadays than out of them. When in Rome
do as the Dagoes —and when in a shearing-
shed be a staunch unionist. But what l
want to know is, what is the_ penalty it a
man breaks all the union principles after
“cut out”? Here is a shearer who always
sports a “ticket,” and he is driving a battery
it 7s. a. day. He has no driver s ticket, and
is keeping some qualified man out of a job
at-the trade rate of wages. Instead ot mak-
ing his “Liberal” boss pay him a living wage
for the driving, he takes contracts for bush
work near by, and does it in his spare time
—and cuts rates for that, too. But what
sort of a smug unionist will he be next
month when he takes up his machine to open
’em up the neck !
A woman who would make an ideal vic-
tim for a Women’s Liberal League organiser
wandered into the Record office of Victorias
Probate department lately, and with calm
certainty told the officer in charge that she
had “called about some property that
had been left her.” “Certainly, madam;
kindly tell me the name of the testator.
“That is what I came to ask,” she replied ;
“I thought you would know.” “Well, hard-
ly 9 you see we have so many wills here.
Perhaps you know what sort of property it
was?” “All I know is that there were cows
in it.” “Ah, probably a farmer. But there
are so many of them. Who told you you
had been left this ..property ?” “The spirits.
They said I had .been left money, and there
were cows in the estate!”
From the Oldest Inhabitant: —
Apropos Felix William Spiers, of Spiers and Pond
(B. 15/6/T1). I am not sure that Felix William
Spiers, recently dead, is the F.W.S. who, with Chris-
topher Pond, introduced the first All England XI.,
just 50 years ago. If he be, he must have been close
up to the century, as Spiers in 1861 was no chicken.
When they brought out the XI. they were running
the Cafe de Paris, attached to the Theatre Royal
(Melb.), and the bars in the vestibule ; but prior to
that they had a cellar dining-room under the Na-
tional Hotel at the top of Bourke-street. The
National was kept by a man named: Mooney—-whose
famous phrase was that every man should have a
farm, a rifle and a vote. When Anderson, “the
Wizard of the North,” came to Melbourne in 1859, he
showed at the Royal, and pointed out the possibility
of adorning the vestibule, and converting it into
something payable. Spiers- and Pond adopted the
suggestion. The place was entirely renovated, and
pictures bv Gill and other artists were hung; round:
the walls/ S. and P. also secured the bars at the
old Princess’s, and these they. transformed and
named The Piazza. Mr. Mallam, their, book-keeper,
was their envoy to England anent the English XI.
! The firm made £16,000 out of the spec. I think it
I may be found that F. W. Spiers, just dead,'was a son
of the original. Christopher Pond, who was a large
man, died many years ago.


THROW AWAY YODR PIPE
AND
SMOKE MY CIGARS
6Ut/Y\.
I’VE knocked around a bit over Australasia in
my time—been in the back parts'of pretty
well every State and New Zealand.
I’ve mixed with shearers and musterers and
rouseabouts at different sheds; been at cattle
camps in Queensland; up among the snow
country of Moparo • in the jarrah forests of
AVestralia; in mining camps all over the Com-
monwealth ; and everywhere I ve seen the boys
smoking their pipes—and seldom a sign of a
Cigar.
Then, I’ve pulled out my case and handed
some DIADEMAS around. And after all this,
people say to me—“ Oh, Australians won’t smoke
Cigars!"
mm.
\lflH
hn
n Hi
tiift i >• Jr
I do just get riled when I
hear this, I tell you that
nearly every pipe-smoker,
once he gets the taste of my
DIADEM AS Cigars, swears
by them. They knock pipe-
smoking hollow!
There's nothing but To-
bacco in them —and the best
Cigar Tobacco that is grown
—the wrapper, finest Java
leaf; and the inside filling,
all clean, straight, long Brazil.
They draw easily and burn
freely, for they are hand-
rolled by as good Cigar-
makers as there are any-
where in the world.
The boys out-back I’ve
given them to, as I said, just
swear by my Cigars, Men
in the Cigar trade here, too
—men with whom Cigar-
smoking is a life habit—come
to me and say—“ Look here,
those Cigars of yours are
better than any we can get
in the city, Let us have a
box as a favor.”
Now, I want you to try
my Cigars —at my ex-
pense.
I want to convert you from
the pipe to Cigars—to my
Cigars. All I want isfor you
to buy my Cigars as against
your pipe and favorite to-
bacco —and I know you'll be
a regular customer of mine.
I’ll post a box of too DIADEMAS right to
your address for 22/6. Smoke 5 or 6of them,
and if they’re not as good as the best 6d. Cigar
you can buy send the rest of the Cigars back,
and I’ll return every penny of your money. I’ll
make no deduction for the Cigars you've smoked
There’s no funny business about this offer,
mind. I’ll keep to every word of it, and there’ll
be no “back answers” if you want your money
back. If you want to know the kind of man
you're dealing with, write to the General
Manager, the Commercial Bank, Melbourne,
and he’ll tell you I’m a clean, straight chap in all
my dealings,
Send 22/6 to-day, and get the box of 100
DIADEMAS by return post. In ordering, say
whether you like the mild, medium, or strong
grade.
My Only Address is
LOUIS KAUFFMANN
34 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE
Illustrated Descriptive Booklet will be
Mailed Free to any address.
M
A
BRAHAM’
COSTUME
FOR
WINTER.
DAVID BRAHAM
AND CO.,
76 Market Street,
Sydney.
Next door to Farmer’s.
KEMPS
PATENT
SHEEP BRANDING
LIQUID
in
#
s
I
W
BLACK,
RED and
BLUE
KEMP’S PATENT '
SHEEP BRANDING LIQUID
BLACK, RED
IS NOT AN OIL, and WILL
NOT INJURE THE WOOL.
and RITIF CASES containing two 4-Callon Tins,
anil 4/- Gallon j or eight 1-Callon Tins,
4/6 Gallon.
Agents In MELBOURNE (Dalgety & Co. Ltd.)
„ SYDNEY (E. Rich & 00. Ltd.)
„ ADELAIDE (D. & J. Fowler Ltd.)
„ KINGSTON, S.A. (Dalgety & Co. Ltd.)
„ BRISBANE (E. Rich & Co. Ltd.)
Agents in ROCKHAMPTON (Dalgaty A 00. Ltd.)
„ TOWNSVILLE (Dalgety & Co. Ltd.)
„ FREMANTLE (Dalgety & Co. Ltd.)
,i HOBART (Wm. Crosby & Oo.)
„ LAUNCESTON (W. T. Bell & Co. Ltd.)
&
Prizes Value
IN THE
£3000
8-HOUR
ART UNION
ana SPORTS
(Under sanction of the Attorney-General). Drawn October 28,1911.
1st Prize, value £650- 2nd Prize, value £350.
3rd Prize, value £200. And 347 other Valuable Prizes.
The First Prize last year was won by Mrs. D. Owen, Bulli, N.S.W.,
for the modest outlay of ONE SHILLING.
GET A TICKET AND HAVE A CHANCE FOR 1911.
Results of Drawing will be advertised in this paper on November 2.
To any person forwarding stamped addressed envelope, a list of
the results will be posted. Tickets may be had from Agents in all
towns, or direct from
JOHN W. DOYLE, Secretary, Trades-Hall, Sydney.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original and Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
-1/IJ, 2/9 & 4/6
fsd
Checks and
arrests Fever,
Croup, Ague.
The Best
Remedy
known for
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS.
Acts like a charm in
DIARRHCEA, and is the only
specific in CHOLERA and DYSENTERY.
9^OLO^ 0N d°Uirig
W"
n
The Friend of
Suffering Humanity
Solomon
Solution
Brings speedy, sure relief in most cases of
Sciatica . Gout and kindred
case b H S t^r« nd Wll J CUre the most obstinate
Snrait s P Pnf Wlth ' Invaluable also
' pr ns> ’ Cuts, and many other simple ills.
2/6 Jars obtainable from your Chemist or Store-
keepers; pest free for 3/- from
SOLOMON COX & SON
439 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
The EDISON
Business
Phonograph.
WE want you to know, as a
representative business man,
how the* Edison Business
Phonograph is used for dictating and
transcribing correspondence. Our ap-
pliances are not for amusement —they
are specially made to record dictation
only. We enable a business man to be
independent of stenographic routine by
dictating fast or slow, or at any time,
without waiting ; the stenographers’
results are doubled with less effort.
Our outfit pays itself in a short time.
Look into our proposition. Write
for a free copy of the booklet, “ Front
Brain to Type,” and names of users
of the Business Phonograph.
National Phonograph Co. of Australia, Ltd.
(Wholesale Only),
Dept. 8., 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
HOW TO GET HOMES WITHOUT DEPOSIT,
FREE OF INTEREST, repayments extending
over 12 i years. Repayments only 3s. 2d. per week
for every £lOO, 25 per cent, less than rent. The re-
payments on a loan worth £250 would only be
7s. lid. per week. Send for pamphlet.
CLARKE & SOLOMONS,
Walker & Blue Streets, North Sydney.
Telephone 6 N.S.
The Perdriav
351- Macintosh
Perdriati’a
35/- Macin-
toshes are
proofed with
finest rubber
througho u t,
thus ensur-
ing effective
resistance to I
the heaviest |
rain. The :
coat is cut \
with wide j
skirt, and is j
long enough |
to p r otect |
the legs.
You may have
your choice of a
number of splen-
did materials in
light or medium
weights and in
several smart
shades and pat-
terns. Price, car-
riage paid, 35/“
If you cannot
call to get one of
these Macin-
toshes, order by
mail. We will
guarantee to fit
f
you correctly if you furnish us with your height
and easy chest measurement over clothes.
Illustrated Price List and Sample Book of
Materials sent free upon request.
PERDRIAU RUBBER CO., LTD.,
“ The Best House for all Rubber Goods,”
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
sd
Turn
-»S This
Button.
Pen
Fills
itself.
THE. ..
“MODERN”
AUTOMATIC
SELF-FILLING
FOUNTAIN
PEN
EVERY riser of a pen
should have a Modern
Automatic Self-Filling:
Fountain Pen. Costs no
more than the ordinary
fountain pen, but offers
many advantages. Simply
twist end, hold pen in ink,
untwist, and the pen is
filled. No joints to leak, no
soiling of fingers or clothing
in filling. Made in all styles
of holders and points.
Address:
Modern Pen Company,
Sole Selling Agent for
A. A. Waterman & Co.,
NEW YORK.
22 THAMES STREET,
NEW YORK, U S A.
If it isn’t an A.A. it isn’t a
“MODERN.”
We are offering to the
firms carrying our line a
beautiful showcase free, and
shall be glad to send par-
ticulars to firms interested.
We also manufacture a
complete line of standard
and safety types. [4
Prompt Relief
r from Rheumatism I
LUMBAGO, SPRAINS,
AND ALL ACHES AND PAINS I
Assured by Applying
S T JACOBS
smsa
Pdiuretic^
KDM&MMR
RBiVE EDY
A CORRECTIVE
OF THE
URINARY
ORGANS
m
IT IS
ALSO A
SPLENDID
TOM 1C
Obr&mati/e d>// Chßm fsts>
iVUuMi!Mßtilu£
ieAustm/asizn Agents. 73 YORK ST.SYDNEY
IfeW
THE LONE HAND offers you *the Glad
Hand. It’s the Right Hand, and a week
after publication there are none Left.


Amusements.
R YRIC AND COLONIAL THEATRES
**■ ■ Nos. 1 and 2, George Street, Sydney.
Direction J. D. Williams.
PERPETUAL MOTION from 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
PATRONISED BY 60,00® PEOPLE WEEKLY. .
Run Under the Continuous Show System now the Rage
of England and America.
English and American Prices of Admission.
Same Prices at -Each Theatre :
STALLS 3d. DRESS CIRCLE 6d.
. ENTIRE CHANGE OF PROGRAMMES TWICE
* WEEKLY : .MONDAYS and THURSDAYS.
Afternoon Tea is Popular. Afternoon Pictures are the
Rage.
We. Cater Specialty for Ladies and Children During
A Morning and Afternoon Sessions.
t Ladies’ Retiring Rooms and Lady Attendants.
If it is to l;e seen anywhere you will see it at'our
Theatres.
THE WORLD IN MOTION.
v W’e want ypu to compare our Programmes and our
Theatres with others which charge twice our prices of
Admission.
THE GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS
AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
International pictures, colonial
THEATRE BUILDINGS, 610 George Street, Sydney.
Mr. W. J. Morgan, General Manager.
This Company supplies the Lyric and Colonial Theatres
with all their photo plays, and also supplies the leading
photo play concern's’ throughout Australasia. In fact,
we supply more shows with pictures than any other
three (3) concerns combined:
• s-.'t>oh’t forget, Mr. Showman, to write or call.
We have the money-getters. We do not represent any
one firm of photoplay manufacturers, hut. we represent
all the best. WE HAVE THOUSANDS OF EXCLUSIVE
SUBJECTS - EVERY ONE A WINNER.
Branches: Sutton Buildings, Melbourne ; Courier Btiild-
, ings, Brisbane ; Wellington, New Zealand ; London,
England : Dewar House, Haymarket.
Just address your wire to “ International Pictures.”
That’s sufficient.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
[lessee and Manager: J. 0. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
MR. PI. B. IRVING’S SEASON
EVERY EVENING at 7.50.
Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON presents
MR. H. B. IRVING and
MISS DOROTHEA BAIRD
: in s,mk i e n X r e e icts? sedy H AML ET.
>' PLAN AT PALING’S.
"THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
1 Lessee & Manager .. J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
THE NEW COMIC OPERA COMPANY. •
EVERY EVENING, AT 7.50.
Mr. J. C. .WILLIAMSON presents , :
THE MUSICAL PLAY IN THREE ACTS,
THE BALKAN PIiINCESS.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Prices as usual.
CRITERION THEATRE. SYDNEY
Lessee: FRANK MUSGROVE.
- - ' , LAST 5 NIGHTS OF
CLARKE & MEYNELL’S NEW OPERA COMPANY.
THE GAY GORDONS.
SATURDAY NEXT, JULY. 1,
THE GA Y GBI SETTE.
Box Plan at ELVY’S. PRICES AS USUAL.
ADELPHI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction and Management, Gkokgk Marlow, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING, AT 7.45,
The Great Emotional, Sensational, Domestic Drama,
DRIVING A GIRL TO
DESTRUCTION.
Interpreted bv the Full Strength of GEORGE MARLOW’S
BRILLIANT DRAMATIC COMBINATION.
Box Plan at Elvy’s and White Rose Confectionery.
POPULAR PRICES —3s:, 2s. & Is. Early Door, fid. extra.
ATIONAL AMPHITHEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietors .. Brennan’* Amphitheatres, Ltd.
■* BRENNAN’S VAUDEVILLE ENTERTAINERS.
EVERY EVENING.
Matinees—Wednesdays, Saturdays and Holidays.
Direct.from America, ANITA DIAZ,
With Wonderful TROUPE of EDUCATED MONKEYS.
HESSIE, Comedy Monologue Juggler.
4 ‘MUSICAL GARDINERS. 4 HUGHES AND PRIOR.
HALLE and ARDELL. FRANK YORKE.
LENTON TRIO. GREAT DOUBLE COMPANY.
Prices—2/-, 1/6, 1/- & 6d. Saturday Night—2/-, IS' ris 1/-
St. JAMES’ HALL, Sydney.
Direction'Nicholson & Co. L> \ SATURDAY, JULY 1,
Vocal Recital by NELSON ILLINGWORTH, Basso,
who will render, together with songs by Mozart, Brahms,
Strauss, Chadwick and Mallinson, “ King Mark’s Address”
from Tristran and Isolda for the first time in Australia.
New songs by Alfred Hill. The Austral String Quartfet,
in response to many requests, will again render Alfred
Hill’s Maori Quartet. Assisting Artists : Madame Grace
Miller-Ward, Laurence Godfrey Smith, Cyril Monk, G.
Christian Hellemann. Prices 4s. (Reserved) 2s. Plan at
Nicholson’s. GEORGE S. HOLBURN, Concert Manager.
THE SHEFFIELD 1
CHOIR.
Direction . .. DR. CHARLES HARRISS. t
AUSTRALASIAN ITINERARY.
NEW ZEALAND ... JUNE 26 to 9.
HOBART JULY 13.
MELBOURNE ... JULY 15 to 22.
BALLARAT JULY 21.
ADELAIDE... ... JULY 26 to 27.
PERTH ... ■ ... AUGUST 3.
H. N. SOUTHWELL, .
Sole Australasian Manager,
Sydney, e/o W. H. Paling & Co. Ltd.
Melbourne —c/o Allan & Co.
Adelaide —c/o Marshall & Sons.
Perth— c/o Nicholson & Co.
THE. LYCEUM ..
L EVERY EVENING AT 8
M ati nets -Wednesdays . Saturdays and Holidays at 2 30.
C FENCER'S IiTEATREJCOPt (?.
J PICTURES
-»/ire superior ro /ill or/tERS.*
Popular Prices —Plan at Palinos.
New princess theatre
(Late BIJOU, next to Glaciarium).
Also PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
COLOSSAL PEOPLE’S ENTERTAINMENTS BY
WEST’S PICTURES, LTD.
“BEST OF ALL.” ;
FAMILY MATINEES—WEDNESDAY, 2.30.
DE GROEN’S VICE-REGAL ORCHESTRAS.
Gd. to 2/- Plan at Nicholson’s (Fee, 6d. extra).
A N Australian’s Two Hands—THE LONE
HAND and THE BULLETIN. You can’t
do without either, and they both cost the same.
Amusements.
g Y D N E Y GLACIARIUM.
REAL ICE - SKATING.
THREU SESSIONS DAILY.
10 to 12. 3 to 5. S to 10.30.
Admission—2/-Children : Morning & Afternoon only, 1/-
Children : Saturday Morning only, 6d.
SKATE HIRE-SIXPENCE.
Private Instruction may be Booked for Hours during
and between the Sessions.
’Phone, 492 Glebe. DUNBAR POOLE, Manager.
Tivoli theatre, svdnev,
Sole Proprietor & Manager—Mr. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS.
FRANCIS and ALFRED, Comedy Jugglers.
TED KALMAN, Australia’s Quaint Comedian.
THE ZANFRELLAS, Novelty Acrobats and Equilibrists.
THE TWO LILLIES, in their Celebrated Mirror Illusion.
GODFREY JAMES, the Singing Collier.
DELINO, King of the Slack Wire.
ARTHUR CROXON, England’s Monologue Entertainer.
And a GREAT COMPANY of Established Favorites.
PRICES—3s., 2s. and Is. Plan at Paling’s.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
REICHEN’S PERFORMING DOGS.
LAMBERTI, in Impersonations of Great Masters of Music.
BLANCHE CHARMEROY, Musical Artiste.
ALF HOLT, Whistling Comedian.
CADWELL & VERNE, Musical Comedy Artists.
BLACK and WHITE, Ladv Afcrobats.
PEGGY PRYDE, Comedienne.
Plan at Allan's. JJT PRICES— 35., 25., Is-
THE KING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager : William Andkrson.
SATURDAY, JULY 1,
WM. ANDERSON’S NEW DRAMATIC ORGANISATION,
in the Great Sporting Drama,
THE FAVORITE.
Reappearance of MISS EUGENIE DUGGAN.
Box Plan at Allan’s. PRICES—Ss., 2s. and Is.
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY'S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager: J. C. Williamson", Ltd.
EVERY EVENING,
Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON presents
OUR MISS GIBBS.
By an Exceptionally Strong Cast.
Plan at Allan’s. PRICES-5/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/-
pRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
A GREAT SUCCESS.
HARRY PLIMMER & REYNOLDS DENNISTON CO. in
NOBODY’S DAUGHTER.
Played Wyndham’s Theatre, London, Seven Consecutive
Months.
PRICES AS USUAL. Plan at Allan’s.
JHEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
FIRST TIME IN MELBOURNE.
CLARKE AND MEYNELL’S CO. in
A BOOL THERE WAS.
LAST TWO WEEKS OF SEASON,
plans at Allan’s. PRICES AS USUAL.
Melbourne repertory theatre.
Director : Gregan McMahon.
JUNE 26, JULY 3—“ THE TWO MR. WETIIKRBYS’
and “THE CRITIC ” (Act II.).
JUNE 29, JULY 6—“ JOHN GABRIEL BORKMAN,”
At the TURN VEREIN lIALL.
Tickets, 45., 35., Is. 6d. : Sets of Six Tickets, 215., los.,
6s. ; on sale at Allan’s and The Book Lovers’ Library.
BOX PLAN at ALLAN’S, JUNE 23. Prospectus on
application at Rooms, Oxford Chambers, Bourke Street.
Amusements.
MIEST'S PALACF, MELBOURNE.
the best WEST’S PICTURES, THE best
OF ALL. LIMITED. OF ALL.
Managing Director: Mis. T. J. West.
NIGHTLY AT S.
Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays & All Holidays at 2.30.
Tiik Greatest Pictorial Enterprise in tiie'World.
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
Any Moving Picture Worthy of Note' always to be seen at
WEST’S PICTURES. Complete Change every week.
Prices—6d. to 2s. Box Plan at Glen’s.
IRTHS ©L.TMPIA.
EVERY EVENING AT 8
MATINEES-WEDNESDAYS.SATURDAYS AND HOLIDAYS AT 230.
C PENCERSIBEATREJCOPE <?.
J PICTURES
<&. ere sup£R.rorz ro ell others «■>
Popular Prices —Plan as Usual-.*
LYRIC theatre, Chapel Street. Prahran, Vic.
EVERY NIGHT at 8. MATINEE, SATURDAY, at 2.30
THE FAMOUS “NON-FLICKER”
PHOTOPLAY
on ciie Marvellous '* Mack ” Screen, together with the
Superb LYRIC ORCHESTRA. 6d. to 2s. Plans at
Allan’s, C. M. Read’s and the Lyric Theatre Cafe.
|CE SKATING.
Melbourne GLACIARIUM.
GRAND RE-OPENING,
NEXT SATURDAY, JULY 1.
NEXT SATURDAY, JULY 1.
AFTERNOON—HaIf-past 3 o’clock.
EVENING—7.4S o’clock. >
Tyres.
S'
m /
7/
f/\
bM
u
Motorist: “ Suit me ? I should think so !—as none
other can.”
ALL THE LEADING GARAGES.
WARNING*—Don't buy Michelin Tyres at less than current prices*
They may be of old manufacture* Purchase only from our Agents*


NEW
Queensland Railways.
Thousands of men will be working on
these shortly, and the wise ones will
wear our
Signal Brand
Boots
especially made for this work.
EACH PAIR GUARANTEED.
Take no other brand if you wish for
satisfactory wear.
Demand them from your storekeeper.
MADE WITH UNION LABOR.
Have
Green
Soles.
Wi
THE
(RECIS
li
o.h:c?l*
TERED)
Have
Green
Soles.
The Davey Halliday C®;
BRISBANE, Q.,
SOLE MANUFACTURERS.
GOOD EVENING!
Have you used
Van
Houten’s
Cocoa
At any time to day?
If not, Why not?
It strengthens the body, fortifies the
nerves, and keeps you up to the
mark. All first-class grocers,
chemists, and store keepers stock
it Refuse all substitutes!
LETTER'S COPIED
WHILE WRITING
By Using Your Own Letter
Paper, Invoices,
etc., WITH THE
N 5 C/ 200
>ATCNT ZANETIC .
COPYING
&
You simply insert
vour writing paper
iin the holder and write. Whereupon you secure by
the act of writing a perfect letter and a perfect copy
(which remains in the book). There is no sign ol
copying or perforated edge.
Sample of the Celebrated Zanetic Paper which
produces this result free from
S.B. ZANETIC WORKS, Welford
Road, Leicester, England.
If stamped addressed envelope enclosed, one com-
plete NSUAOO Copying 200 full size lOin. x Bin.
| letters, for 3/6 post free ;or Copying 400, 5/-.
| WHOLESALE AGENTS WANTED.
•‘LINSEED COMPOUND” for Coughs and
Colds. Loosens phlegm. Allays irritation.
MEDLOW BATH, Blue Mountains, N.S.W
MAJESTIC HOTEL.
COMPLETE arrangements have been made by the new proprietor (Mr. W. H. Burgess), late of the Grand
Hotel, Melbourne, for the comfort of visitors during the forthcoming season.
Medlow Bath is an ideal resort. The crisp mountain air is a delight, and the mountains, in their
Spring garb, appeal to lovers of the picturesque. Arrangements can be made at the Hotel for motors,
carriages and riding tours.
Motor parties can be arranged any time to start from the City Office—or your own residence—direct
to the Majestic Hotel.
To pedestrians Medlow offers ever-varying attractions. The views in the mountains are superb, and
hours can be spent in walks through the Hotel grounds.
Hot-air pipes are laid in many rooms. Daily Motor trips are made from the Hotel to Jenolan Oaves.
Further particulars can be obtained from the Hotel, or from the Sydney Offices, 42 Oastlereagli Street.
W. H. BURGESS, Proprietor.
ZEISS
FIELD GLASSES
WITH ENHANCED STEREOSCOPIC EFFECT.
For:
ARMY.
MARINE.
TRAVEL.
SPORT.
STALKING.
fsd
Features s
Brilliant
Definition.
Extensive Field,
Great Light
Intensity,
Mechanical
Precision.
Stability.
Tropic Proof.
With
separate eyepiece
focussing.
X 8 £8 15 0
Xl2—£l2 10 0
NEW MODELS
OF ALL
OPTICIANS AT
AUSTRALASIAN
PRICES.
With
central focussing
mechanism.
X 6 0 0
X 8 15 0
8
UNSHRINKABLE
UNDERWEAR
JAY /^
The extreme comfort of JAY Underwear is ensuring for
it an ever=increasing sale in all parts of the world. It is
durable, economical, and guaranteed against shrinking.
Made of the Finest Australian Wool
All the wearing parts are strengthened by patented
improvements, and there are no irritating seams. Made
in all weights and sizes for men, women and children.
SOLD BY ALL HOSIERS AND OUTFITTERS.
Wholesale only: I. & R. MORLEY and GEO. BRETTLE & CO., London, England.
N.B.—The genuine JAY UNDERWEAR bears the above Trade Mark.
rs
Other Models from 7/6 to 40/-
Catalogues Sent Free.
MELBA
the ACCORDEON with
The Mellow Tone.
Is just perfection for song accompaniments,
Dance and Picnic Music. The organ like
tone of these instruments is attained by the
use of Bell Metal Reeds which are hand
fitted and tuned.
3 Popular Models.
THE ORGAN-TONED MELBA
3 sets Bell Metal Reeds, price 22/6, postfiee.
THE DANCE KING.
4 sets Bell Metal Reeds, price 30/-, post free.
THE PICNIC MODEL.
2 sets Bell Metal Reeds, price 15 post free.
ALLAN & CO., 276 Collins St., Melb.
POT POURRI
Stands for Quality.
ad The Highest Product of the
Tobacco Blenders’ Art.
“ POT POURRI ” Cigarettes. —The highest grade obtainable, at 6d. per packet of io ;
. 4/6 per ioo.
“ POT POURRI ” Cigars.— A fragrant smoke— 3d. each ; 5 for 1/= ; 18/6 per 100.
“ POT POURRI ” Tobacco.— 40Z. tins, 2/= ; Boz. tins, 4/= ; 8/= per lb. There is none
better than this —it is the BEST.
“POT POURRI ” Pipes, Silver-mounted, superior quality, all shapes, 2/6 each.
“POT POURRI ” always the same, always enjoyable.
Clients in country or other States ORDER NOW, and it will be
posted FREE by return, with Catalogue which will interest you.
A. A. MARKS, Sole Agent, 376 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
RHEUMATISM
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY.
GOUT. RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA. LUMBAGO,
NEURALGIA.
Blair’s
GOUT AND
RHEUMATIC
They hi ever Fait.
They Always Cure.
Pills
The only true and safe remedy for Gout and
Rheumatism that has stood the test of time
All Chemists and Stores at t/t J& 2/9 per box
Proprietors, PROUT & Co., 229, Strand,
London, England
f
ARE YOU
D E A F?
If you are deaf, or going deaf, V'du will
be glad to hear of a Simple fihd scientific de-
vice which will restore ydur hearing, no mat-
ter how old you, are. There is no mystery
or secrecy about it; we describe it fully and
explain just how it acts.
You USe spectacles as sight magnifiers, and
in the same way you may use this sound
magnifier as an aid to weak hearing. But,
unlike spectacles, the Wilson Common-sense
Ear-Drums are invisible and comfortable.
You can’t tell you are wearing them. No
one else can, either, because they are not
seen.
They rest the ear nerves by taking the
strain off them—the strain of trying to hear
dim sounds. What a blessed relief to have
done with that tiring strain!
Being made of the purest and softest Para
rubber, they cannot be felt, even when the
head rests on a pillow. For the same reason,
a blow on the side of the head will not hurt
the ear. In fact, they protect the ear, the
tender inner parts that are so sensitive, from
cold winds, dust, sudden and piercing sounds.
So that you may clearly understand why
these facts are true, and why the Sound Mag-
nifier restores the hearing, we give an illus-
tration of one as it lies in the ear. You will
notice that the Sound Magnifier is shaped
like a trumpet, and so conveys even the
faintest sounds right to the natural ear-
drum. Being of the softest rubber, it cannot
fV
hurt the ear. It fits the orifice of the ear
with precision and comfort. The division
that runs across the mouth is to allow the re-
moval and insertion of the Ear-Drum, and to
brace it.
The shape of the Wilson Ear-Drum has
been chosen after years of experience as the
best adapted to carry the faintest sound right
down to the natural ear-drum.
To persons who are nearly deaf, it is not
only trying to have people shout at them,
but it hurts the ear-drum. When age comes
the ear-drum sometimes gets thickened, or
loses its tightness, and shouting does not act
properly on it. It only makes a confused
and tiring noise. But the Sound Magnifiers
concentrate the sound in the best spot for
perfect hearing.
Of course, if you have lost the hearing-
nerve completely, or were born deaf, we can-
not pretend to cure you. Only a miracle
could do that, in spite of some of the absurd
claims made to-day. But if you can hear the
faintest sound, do not despair. You will
never regret trying the Wilson Ear-Drums.
We have letters to show you from deaf people
in Australia and New Zealand who have been
cured, and you can be cured, too. You may
wear the Ear-Drums day and night, and take
them out ■ whenever you wish. Children can
wear them (we have special sizes for children
from six to twelve). Even a child can insert
and remove them without the least danger.
The price is £1 (the fee for a doctor’s
single visit). This includes a pair of Drums
(they are only sold in pairs), a fine nickel
remover and also an inserter. After the first
pair is bought you may purchase a single
drum at any time for Bs., but the pair you
get at first will last quite two years. Do not
ask for a trial pair- We do not send them
out on trial, and so they are never second-
hand. Use the Order Form below, and the
Outfit will be sent to you at once, with the
fullest instructions. Don’t delay, but have
the comfort of good hearing as soon as you
can.
ORDER FORM.
STAR NOVELTY CO.,
103 Premier Buildings,
229 Collins Street, Melbourne (Vie.).
Please send me an Outfit containing a pair
of Wilson Common-sense Ear-Drums, an In-
serter and a Remover, for which I enclose
One Pound.
Name
Address
NOTE. —-Send by Money Order or Postal
Note. If a Bank Note or Sovereign is sent,
you must register it.


SURE CATCH” is Undoubtedly THE Fishing Tackle to Use.
“ SURE CATCH ” is the Tackle of DISTINCTION, QUALITY and RENOWN. It has stood the Test for Years, thus Pro Vi rtg its ABSOLUTE RELIABILITY*
It is used by the Most Prominent Anglers of the day, and CANNOT BE EXCELLED*
“BIG FISH” TACKLE SPECIALITIES* . .
RODS.
Extra Ouality .Split Cane Rods, 2 joints, 2 tops, steel centre, double-
handed cork srrip, strong-porcelain rod and end rings, best bronzed
suction ferrules, double brazed, highly finished. Excellent value. A
perfect “ Big Fish ’’ Rod. 74 feet, 57/6 each ; 8J feet, 62/6 each.
Rod A— Very Superior “Big Fish” Rod, made of mottled cane, 3
joints, 2 greenheart tops, one top spliced with whalebone and fitted
with pulley end ring, double swelled grip, hardened snake rings,
solid winch fittings, extra strong ferrules, double brazed and rubber
button. This rod has been made to our own special instructions.
9 feet, 35/- each ; 10 feet, 37/6 each.
Rod B—The “ Queensland ” Rod, 9i feet, 4 joints, 2 tops, made of
best seasoned greenheart, lock joints, double brazed, porcelain
bridge and end rings, hardened snake rings, and rubber button,
30/- each.
For EXCELLENCE and STERLING WORTH “ SURE CATCH ” Fishing
Tackle is ABSOLUTELY UNRIVALLED, as IS TESTIFIED by the EVER
INCREASING CROWD of SATISFIED and APPRECIATIVE ANGLERS
from near and far.
; Kt
3*,i
REELS.
No. Wood Reels, aluminium lining; and flange,
solid brass star back, movable check, very strong line guard. A
perfect reel for “Big Fish.” 5 inch, 22/6 ; 6 inch, 27/6 ;6J Inch,
30/- each.
REELS (continued).
No. s—The New “ Lockfast ” Tension Big Fish Reels, aluminium
lining and flange, solid brass star back, optional check brass
handle plates. A splendid reel. 4 inch, 18/6; 5 inch, 20/=;
6 inch, 25/= each. „ . . , , , .
No. 16—Finest Quality Metal “ Big Fish Reels, nickel-plated
rims and bars, Multiplying action, leather thumb brake for checking
speed, steel pivots, optional check, interleaved with aluminium,
which greatly strengthens the reel and reduces the weight,
3i inch, 35/=; 4 inch, 45/=
The MORE CRITICAL the ANGLER, the MORE EMPHATIC is HIS
APPRECIATION of “SURE CATCH’’ FISHING TACKLE. THE
TACKLE that CANNOT BE SURPASSED.
SPINNING BAITS.
M.S. Perfect Spinners, a splendid spinner for all game fish. Sizes—
-34 inch, 3/3 each ; 4 inch, 3/9 each.
No. 23—M.S. Paragon Spinners, made specially to our own order,
and can be had in the following sizes : 3 inch, 2/6; 2J inch, 3/-;
4 inch, 3/6 ; 5 inch, 4/6 each.
No. 3—Extra Heavy Spoon Baits, scaled back, red inside, mounted
with extra strong swivels, split rings, and treble hooks. An excel-
lent bait. 3 inch, 2/- ; 3i inch, 3/; 4 In6h, 2/6 each.
No. 4—Best Quality Ring-mounted Devhn Baits, kk heavy and
very strong; specially made for Big Fish.
3 inch, 2/9 ; 3J Inch, 2/3 ; 4 inch, 3/9 each.
We hold the foremost reputation for all Angling Requisites;
dive us a Trial and be CdnVinced.
WIRE TRACESi
“ Tiger ” Traces, nlnde from hand-twisted, flexible steel wire. A Trade
of enormous,strength. Size X. 1/0 each ; Size Y, 2/3 each.
No. i —Steel Wire Traces. 1J yards long, 9d. each.
No. 2—“ Hercules Big Fish Wire tiinlp Traces, extra special
quality, 1 yaird. od. ; 1$ yards long, 1/3 each.
LINES.
The “ Zenith *’ Plaited Flax Lines, made from best duality material,
and are .splendid lines for all “ Big Fish.” To be hud in lengths of
100 and 200 yards. No. 3. 6/6 ; No. 2, 6/9 ; No. 1,7/-.
No. l/o, 7/6 ; No. 2/o, 8/* per 100 yards.
CUT THIS OUTf
FILL IN THIS COUPON with yOur ndrrte and Address, And
we ivill forward you by PETIT AN OF POST a c'Opy of Our
A USfRAL ASIAN FI Silt NO tACKIti CATALOGUE, the
LEST And largest tAckle list ever published.
The talk Of the Angling-world. Full Of useful informatiOiL
• Nante :i. £'._; .1. 1.
Address .; . :
Bulletin, May 4.
MICK SIMMONS LTD.,
The Largest and Most Progressive Fishing Tackle Houss.”
Head Depot—
Haymarket, Sydney, N.S.W.
Schute, Bell & Go.
limited
Wool Stores: Central Wharf. Produce Stores
Quay. Offices :44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Do not sell Fat Stock,
but only Wool, Sheepskins,
Hides, Tallow, etc., and
Marsupial & Rabbit Skins.
Each head of the Company a worker
in theinterestsof their constituents.
Proceeds protected Trust Account
Bank of N.S.W.
ft
& ;
HOTELKEEPERS !
We will Accept Half Your Present
Monthly Cordial Bill in Payment
of an AUSTRAL PLANT.
PERFECT SODA WATER for |d. per Dozen!
GINGER ALE and LEMONADE at 3d!
IBF" 3000 MACHINES IN DAILY USE.
A Postcard will bring our latest Catalogue, post free.
Eckersley & Sons,
Melbourne, and 3 Bond Street, Sydney.
sd
Why you should wear
66
All-wool unshrink-
able Socks, Stockings,
and Underwear.
Because
they are the most comfortable dl Australasian-woo] wear:
they ard absolutely unshrinkable: they are English Made.
The 32£S& process imparts a soft, silky finish which makes
wear superior to all others.
Yet cost no more than ordinary hosiery and
underwear.
Socks, Stockings, and Underwear for Men, Ladies, and Children.
In all prices. Of M en’s Outfitters, Drapers, and Stores. If your
dealer does not stock he can obtain it from his wholesale house.
In case of difficulty write for “ Jason ” booklet and name of nearest
Agent, to —
& a 7 Jason Hosiery Co.. Leicester, England. <9
gunnp
Forest devil.
u.
:
Leaves the Ground Ready for Ploughing.
«T Positively the hardest work the Farmer, Settler of Squatter is called upon
It' to do is grubbing. The old method of uprooting dry or green stumps and
trees is now entirely revolutionised by the Introduction on the market of the
most marvellous labor-saving device for Farmers, etc., eVer invented. It is
called “ The Bunyip ” Forest Devil. T his particular Forest Devil is far superior
to any other Forest Devil on the market in that it is the very essence of sim-
plicity in adjusting and in manipulating. The most admirable features of
“ The Bunyip ” Forest Devil are that it is not only light in weight, and can be
moved with the greatest ease from tree to tree, where it can be rapidly fixed and
adjusted, but it is absolutely certain to accomplish almost any task set to it.
•T The tremendous strain which can be brought to bear with “ The Bunyip ” Forest
" Devil makes it absolutely imperative for the dee or stump to leave the ground entirely—
roots and all, no matter how big the tree or stump, how long it has been growing, or how
firmly it be rooted- in the ground.. '! ’ „ ». p V, |
Many “land men,I’’ 1 ’’ once doubtful of the assertions claimfedfot it) are poW lou,d ih their
praises of the unbounded and entimsatisfaction it fias given in dheircasd, ahd'in many inStanqps
they have paid for the cost of the rpfhhine in a very short while by hiring it to their neighbors.
C[ Convincing proof of its wonderful poiyer and its durability—the quickness with which if can be adjusted,
1 the labor and money it saves, will be found in a special and attractive catalogue Messrs!,‘John Cooper
and Sons, 287-289 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, have just issued. Copies will,be sent free to every inquirer,
together with any other informali< n required. When Writing, please mention this paper. '
John Cooper & Sons,
287-9 ELIZABETH STREET (Otfp.
St. Francis' Church), MELBOURNE.
■
A superb library volume, handsomely printer
and bound ; containing upwards of Three hundred
of “Hop’s” best drawings. Full Bulletin size
Price, 21s. ' V
BOOKS YOU CANT
>'h
■ >
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1908 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 6d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’S Silent Friend,' ls 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings,, 4s.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurstons Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, 1 Is 6d each, posted. Educating tiie
t Torse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
uatk Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all The Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Quadrille Call BOok,
2s. Adventures of a Flirt, Is. 3d. Parlor Tricks
and Games, Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
Is 2d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is 2d post.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris,, Is fid, History .of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, os. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain for the
British, 6d. How to Read Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Goins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, ls 6d.
f sdfsdfsd
NOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACIN'®
THE POPULAR "PLAIN HOWE TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos, 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain lahgu'age, athou-
sand questions that occur to the mindkof young and old, but'about
which they feel a delicacy iri consulting' their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting' subjects concerning' mar-
riage, which makes.it a superior guide'to the'action of men, and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new ‘2oth Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
BOOKSELLER TO
THE COMMONWEALTH, -m
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to. Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River, os 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made EASy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self, Instructor: Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d.
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougall Topped the Score, &
Other. Verses, Ts 3d. The Gay Count; Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I've got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying; more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. i.eF~ Established 35 1 ears.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only)
QNLY A SHALL IDEA OP MY STOCK CAN
BE QOT FROfl THIS ADVT.
r Y Y*v a
Write for my ....
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking. £
% ■■■■■■ - ’
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED .ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to, Make Ur, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. JSJew Tricks wmi Cards, Is. Sai> ruo, genuine,
Is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d post. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s (id.
Aristotle,. 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions of the Ring,
Is 2d. Gumi> s TO Auctioneering, 2s. 6d. Secret
History Court >pf England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket
Dictionary,- 8d posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post.
Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How tq Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to <a
Wife, 3s (id posted. Wonderful BudgEt'Song
Book, over 300> latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
ls2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy. Is post. lOONew
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. . Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmakifp and Repairing,, Is 2d. Dyxa-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d.- Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Sd. . . WRITE FOR CAT A1.0(71 E TO-DAY,


Liver Trouble
AND CONSTIPATION CURED.
Bile Beans Are tl\e Friend of All
msmm
■\\Vvv'
\YV>
/
M? OEO.TIPPIHC
Liver Sufferers
u nILE BEANS are a real boon to me,” says
O Mr. G. Tipping, a ’bus-driver, residing
in Chester Street, TenerifFe, Brisbane.
“ Through the nature of my occupation I am com-
pelled to be constantly sitting, and consequently my
liver gets sluggish and the bowels irregular and
constipated. The result of these disorders in the
bodily functions is that I suffer from attacks of
biliousness, with headaches, dizziness, nausea,
retching, loathing of food, and a sickly, done-up
feeling which takes the sparkle out of life and
makes work a drudgery. Acting on the advice of a
friend, to whom I confided my feelings of indis-
position, I tried Bile Beans for these troubles, and
they proved to be the very remedy I required, for
they quickly cleared my liver, opened the bowels,
dispelled all the nauseous, bilious feelings, braced
me up, and improved my general bodily health
wonderfully.
“Now, should I suspect any symptoms of biliousness coming on me, I
always go to my box of Bile Beans, and a dose or two never fails to
immediately relieve and rid me of the trouble.
“I always have a good word to say for Bile Beans, and recommend
them to others whom I sometimes hear mention of feeling unwell.”
THE STANDARD FAMILY MEDICINE.
RHEUMATISM—HOW TO CURE IT.
Rheumatism is directly due to digestion,
which pollutes the blood with acid impurities.
Exposure to cold, etc., brings the trouble to a head
by crystallising the acid in the joints or muscles.
Plasters, etc., only dislodge the pain, they do not
remove the cause. Bile Beans get right at the root
of the trouble. They set the digestion right, stop
the supply of acid, cleanse the whole system, and
banish the rheumatism thoroughly and perfectly.
PAINS IN THE BACK.
When the nervous system is run down, every
particle of the spine is weakened, and a pain in
the back is a sure sign that disorder of the
kidneys or some dangerous ailment is attacking
you through your weakest part. A course of
Bile Beans banishes such pains and strengthens
the organs, and promotes recuperation of the
whole system. Bile Beans should be taken the
moment pains in the back assail one.
Bile Beans are
a natu r a I and
proved remedy for
indigestion, bil-
iousness, liver
trouble, constipa-
tion, stomach dis-
orders, piles, liver
chill, general de-
bility, anaemia
and female ail-
ments. Of all
chemists and
stores at is. IJd
and 2s. 9d. per box.
He
eans
Beauty’s Favourite
The article which excels all others
in improving the beauty of the skin
is naturally and deservedly beauty’s
favourite. This Has been tbe
acknowledged and Honoured
position Held by Pears* Soap for
. . •
nearly 120 years. It won, and Has
maintained tHat position by virtue
of its complete purity, and by tHe
possession of tHose special emollient
properties which soften, refine,
and impart natural colour to tHe
skin. No other soap possesses
these qualities in such a pre-
eminent degree as
Matchless for the Complexion*
A Song of Men and Women.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
JUST a song of men and women, very
mixed and very human:
Some are good and some are wicked,
some are drunk and on the spree;
Some are rich and some are beggars, some
are cripples- —wooden-leggers _
But the state of their finances doesn t mat-
ter much to me!
’Tis a motley crowd that passes; some are
wise and some are asses,
Some are thieves and some are bishops; some
abhor the name of Beer;
Some are proud and some are humble, some
were born to whine and grumble —
All the same, they’re Men and Women, and
I lift their anthem here!
What is sin, and who are sinners? Give
us all six-shilling dinners,
Give us motors and we’re moral —yea, the
bishops will not frown ;
It is righteous to be wealthy, but tis sinful
to be healthy,
And the saddest kind of sinner is the man
without a “brown.”
As for woman, sister woman, she, alas! is
all too human,
And her sins are colored scarlet, and are
dreadful as can be ;
Yet the harridan that curses and the dames
with golden purses
Have a likeness, now and always, which in-
deed impresses me.
And the longer 1 am living finds me more
and more forgiving—
I forgive mine own offences with the sins
of other men ;
Why be nasty, sour and snappy? Even
kings are sometimes happy,
And I’m pleased when shovelling language
, with a large, persistent pen !
Sin infests the empty pocket; life’s a kind
of whizzing rocket —
Some may slump and some may fizzle,
others soar across the sky ;
Why be cross with one for failing, when the
other’s star-ward sailing?
Blame the erring Powder-mixer; do not ask
the rocket Why?
God, who loads each human rocket, fits the
stick unto the socket—
Skilled is He in pyrotechnics, so the worthy
bishops say;
And the statesman, proudly soaring, whilst
the drunk is loudly snoring,
Thinks himself no common fire-work, as he
whizzes on his way ;
Yet the drunk who’s damped his powder
might have been a rocket prouder—
Might have whizzed yards nearer Heaven,
knocking fragments off the stars;
As it is, he claws the pewter—God, the
Master Rocket-shooter,
Hath appointed him to fizzle, so he slumps
through many bars!
Hence it is that man must suffer, while we
spurn him as a duffer;
W"e would all be sucking Caesars, were we
shaped that special way;
And each wrangling sect or schism simply
loads its precious ’ism
With the tons of perished figments in Crea-
tion’s rubbish-dray !
Critics snarl and parsons wrangle, Kate is
pleased with brooch or bangle,
Beer for Bill and port for baron, so the
world of humans gpes;
Groan no more, O frail repenter—God’s the
Chief Experimenter,
And the Hand that paints the sunset also
paints the drunkard’s nose !
Here’s a song of men and women —very
mixed, this song, and human,
But in moments philosophic this is how
things seem to me;
God, who makes the rich and beggars, also
shapes the w T ooden-leggers,
And the Hand that builds the bishop sets
the drunk upon the spree ! •
So this motley crowd that passes, with its
tangled creeds and classes,
Seems to me a thing of wonder, as I lift
my vesper Beer;
You are proud and I am humble, motors
hoot and hearses rumble —
All the same, we’re Men and Women, and
I’m mighty glad we’re Here!
victobia.
GRANT HERVEY.
Peter and I and the Aeroplane.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I HAD been working hard, and was very
tired when Peter Billings called on
me the other night. It was, in point
of fact, the other morning. It generally is
I love insatiably insatiate night, as I once
remarked (in effect) in one of those
notorious poems of mine. She is expensive,
but upon my soul I can’t help it. You know
how it is yourself. Let us, without further
sadness of farewell, get back to Peter and
ihe 10th. of January. The strains of the
last melodeon had died out in the pensive
village. The last incipient co-respondent
had stolen furtively to his lair. The latest
howler had sought cover in his whare. It
was quite late. Even the wild, wet, whim-
pering wistful sea seemed sleepy, and the
iliin crescent of recumbent moon above the
Pinnacles was listless as the half-shut eye
of the devout worshipper when the Rev.
Aloysius gets to Seventhly. I eyed Peter
sternly as I passed him the coffee-pot—or it
may have been the bottle. Sternly I eyed
nim, and with a wan smile of protest.
“Peter,” I said, “you are ghastly late.
Not even the charm of your conversation
can keep me longer out of bed, Peter.”
“No bed for yours!” chuckled Peter, who
was once in America for a week, and can’t
forget. “No bed for yours, old bird! I’ve
finished my aeroplane. It’s a sure thing.
I’ve come to take you for a run.”
“I wouldn’t run a yard to save a king-
dom, Peter. No kingdom could be worth it
at this time.”
Peter grinned the grin that is distinctly
not the grim self-effacement or commend-
able humility. “Not on your trotters,- old
swan,” he said, “but aboard my aeroplane.”
“Do you mean to say you are serious?”
I snapped, while his grin widened before
the incredulity of my tone. “Have you ab-
solutely got it?’
“Sure ’s you’re born,” said Peter. “She’s
out in the road now. Must keep mum, y’
know. Shall sell her to the Tsar or Rupert
Clarke. Sure thing!’
In this paragraph I take time to put on
record the publishable facts conceining
Peter. He has always been a somewhat
wild and irresponsible youth—the only de-
cent thing that the most frantic optimist
could produce in justification of Peter’s pre-
posterously prosaic family. Peter’s immedi-
ate father is a churchwarden and a justice
of the peace, but Peter has lived it down.
Lie has been everything, but never long
enough to do anything. He has managed
(at various times, and for various induce-
ments) a dairy-farm, an Arab stallion, a'
Dicture-show, a hair-restorer, two of the 000
bankrupt dredging companies of Otago, and
a flaxen soubrette. It will thus be seen that
he is a sort of engineer. Of late some of his
t-are time, and most of his friends’ spare
money has been put into his scheme for pro-
ducing what he calls an absolutely practic-
able bleary aeroplane. I am involved to
the extent of 275. myself. No one ever be-
lieved in Peter’s aeroplane, but it was
cheaper to subscribe than argue.
“She’s out in the road now,” said Peter.
1 uplieaved my smiling bulk, and went
forth. Along the strip of roadway that lies
oeiween my verandah and the sea a dim long
shape was lying. It was impossible in that
vague gloom to distinguish details; but you
will understand perfectly when I tell you
that the thing did not remotely resemble a
cigar, and that, as a concession 10 the an-
cient proprieties, Peter had given her phos-
phorescent eyes like a fish. Her body was
a twisted framework, and her two long sails
or flaps stood erect in the night—erect and
vertical and pressed together tremulously,
like the wings of a butterfly that doesn’t
suspect.
I scratched a dubious chin. "Does she
go, Peter?” I asked.
“I’ve just hovered over from the shed,” he
told me. “She’s doggoned slick. Yessir.
She’s the sweetest and most tractable thing
in the world. She’ll drop you down at the
store for a pound of tea; or she’ll put you
across to Bullfinch before you can recite the
Rubaiyat. When she trifles, she’s gentla
as a gyurl; but when she goes, she goes like
super-heated and intoxicated hell.”
“Peter,” I demurred, “my life is not in-
sured, and I’m a family man. Without ex-
aggeration, I am.”
“Her name is the Disinterested Owl,’
mused Peter, fondly, “and she’s safer than a
church. The earth is my footstool.”
I was so profoundly unconvinced that I
stepped immediately aboard. It reads quite
simply, put like that. In cold fact, I
crawled in bet>veen fifteen twisted wires and
two steel uprights, and Peter followed and
jammed me into a sort of seat. Then he
strapped my feet to a board and my body to
a stanchion. I am no aviator, and you
will kindly take these technicalities for
granted. Peter seemed to take everything
for granted, like a bookmaker in a bar. He
beamed upon me in brotherly fashion, got
astride of a coagulated cross-piece, twisted
his legs into a knot underneath, strapped
himself in the customary manner, pulled a
lever, and let loose the tailshaft. The aero-
plane lurched and staggered, and plunged
hotly down the road.
“She’ll lift presently,” cooed Peter.
She lifted. She gurgled like a Corelli
heroine beneath the kiss of Satan. She
darted like a crayfish and snorted like a
pard. We brushed past the electric wires
overhead, and I heard the topmost of them
part with a ping. Then the sea fell away
beneath us, and the sky swooped nearer. I
could see the faint, scared lights of Seatoun
blink amazedly below. Wellington was a
misty pallor to the west. The congers
barked furiously as we passed. The white
eye of Pencarrow gazed in mute surprise. A
big bluish star that has been a sort of friend
of mine for some years now slid behind a
cloud and wondered what next. I also won-
dered, but said nothing. We were very naked
under the arching vault, and the cloak of
conversation had fallen from us as rouge
falls from the cheek of yesterday’s lady when
the ungentle wardress scrubs hard, and the
world is sadly full of people who don’t care
twopence what happens to a poor girl.
There was no rattle and crash of machin-
ery, but only a drone like the roar of a tur-
bine subdued. The batlike wings stretched
sombrely away to interminable horizons, and
flapped. I have known many flappers, but
these beat the bunch. The air as we sped
had such force that it Seemed as if one were
dragged forcibly through a bank of dough
with splinters in it. Presently I saw a
deeper blur against the depth of night.
“The Rimutakas,” said Peter, and we
climbed up.
There was another long rush and then a
bigger blur. We climbed again, and pres-
ently were in the thick of a stinking smoke.
I looked down, and saw a gleam of dull red
like the glow of a huge cigar.
“Ngauruhoe,” Peter informed me; and I
was not sorry that we did not stay be-
side that furious volcano.
The steady order of our going became a
screaming swirl. The wind beat upon us
with such force that if the straps gave I
knew I should be hurled into infinite space,
or, mayhap, Dunedin. I pulled my teeth out
of my gullet and took my heart out of my
boots and put it in my pocket for safety.
Beneath us now there was a glimmer of light
that came and winked and sped away
astern ; and Peter mentioned that this was
Auckland. I remembered all the soothing
drinks I had had in Auckland, and there
was a great sadness. Then arose a tumble
of leaden sea. Peter found enjoyment in
racing along a few feet above the heaving
waters, until a pellet of spray bit away a
piece of the lobe of his left ear. He bled
somewhat for a minute or two, and the blood
flew away behind us like a thin red wire.
But Peter learned his lesson, and after that
we flew higher. A few minutes later, we
slid across a considerable unlighted island,
and Peter bent to me with the information
that things were booming in Australia just
now. I marvelled that he found it necessary
to waste breath over such a trifle, but I
didn’t say anything, because at that stage
he decided to let her go, and the terrestrial
globe was like a spinning ball beneath us.
It grew, colder and colder—colder than res-
teurant soup—colder than the kisses of
Aunt Tabitha —colder than the morning
thoughts of a predestined maid. Peter
stopped to hand me a thick mask and a few
furs, and somehow or other I got into these
things bit by bit. When I had finished, I
(Continued on next page.)


HIDDEN DANDERS
Uric Acid is a deadly poison that is
produced in the human body, and it is
the duty of the kidneys to collect this
poison from the blood, and to pass it
safely out of the system, together with
all waste water. But it does not take
much to set the kidneys back, and when
they get behind they cannot right them-
selves without help. The uric acid clogs
the kidneys, causing that dull, heavy
aching in the back, and sharp twinges
when stooping or lifting. It attacks the
nerves with neuralgia and sciatica. It
brings headache, dizziness, languor, and
disorders of the urine. Try a good
kidney medicine, if you have any of the
above symptoms. There is nothing else
so prompt and effective as Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills, and this remedy
has no effect on the other organs,
except to drive out the uric poison that
interrupts their action.
"Gvery
Picture
Tells ,
ft Story,
%
K
x
I
WRITE EOR FREE BOOKLET ON “DISEASES
OF THE KIDNEYS AND BLADDER
Severe Kidney Trouble
Cured by Doan’s Pills.
“A Balmain Man Thankful.”
Mr. P. Smith, i Cheltenham Street, Balmain,
Sydney, says : “ I used Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills for kidney trouble, and they worked a miracle
in my case. I had been under three doctors at
different times, but their treatment did me no good.
I used to be so bad that I would have to be carried
home on a cart if an attack came on when working in
the street. Sometimes I have been taken to the
hospital, when one of these bad attacks came on.
My wife says she thought that I would never live
through some of these bad turns, I suffered with a
kind of biliousness and vomiting. My secretions
were very bad ; I could never bend my back or move
at all when I had a bad turn. The people at the
hospital gave me medicines and recommended
rubbing in liniments ; but it was no use, they did not
benefit me. I saw an advertisement for Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills, and procured this remedy.
I only took one bottle and was cured. When I
finished them I started work, and have worked ever
since. It is heavy work lam doing, but it does not
affect me. These pills cured me after years of
suffering, and the relief was almost instantaneous.”
Mrs. Smith says nine years later :—“ My
husband has had wonderful health since he used
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. I am convinced
that he owes his life to this remedy. He is now so
well, thanks to Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills.”
sd sd
fsd
Backache
Kidney
f
At all Chemists and
Stores, 2lp per bottle
(six bottles, IS I 3 ) /
or from Foster-
McClellan Co., 76
Pitt Street, Sydney.
found that Peter was also a shapeless bundle,
and beneath us the straits called Behring
were a grey-white dazzle in the leering dawn,
Ice everywhere, but nothing to drink it with,
Cold beyond imagining. The speed such
that we seemed to be tearing our way
through a continent of cast steel. The wind
came through the pores of my swathing of
ru ss, and wherever it penetrated it cut like
needles. I knew that sleep in such circum-
stances was dangerous, but I slept placidly
tor a minute or two because I felt that I
should be rather glad to die. Then I awoke
with a start, and Peter handed me a piece
of whisky with a glad soft smile. There
was no sunlight now, but the sky was a glory
of flickering lights and streamers. Away
below there was a stretch of black rocks
tossed in ferment, snow on every crag, and
ice in every hollow. The aeroplane was go-
ing round in a slow circle.
‘The North Pole,” Peter announced.
■vr J protested. “Peary says that the
North Pole is on floating ice.”
“Peary be fried !” scoffed Peter. “How
could a pole stand on floating ice? Do you
think Nature is d fool?”
“Peter,” I sighed, “it has been conveyed to
me that there is a reasonably warm climate
about Lake Tchad.”
“We might as well see,” said Peter.
So we set a course south by west by the
wobbling needle, and moved some more. Un-
der pressure of your sympathy, I admit that
in a little while 1 was a trifle nervous, for
we carried no lights, and the night about
us was thick as the talk of a horse thief.
But presently we tucked away the aero-
plane under some trees on Hampstead
Heatli, shed our wrappings, found a be-
lated taxi, and so fell smoothly upon Lon-
don town. Alas! in the first bar there was
an attendant maiden who assured ns that
she was the' sole remaining daughter of a
proud old family, and was only where we
found her because she had been privily
deluded by a duke, and so cast unpro-
tected upon a ravenous world. For this had
we assaulted the innumerable leagues! We
left (as my friend Mr. King O Mallev would
say) some discouraged, rejoined the taxi,
smote the driver covertly from behind in an
appropriate place and so got back to the ship,
There we discovered a pale, quaint stranger
with a tousled moustache. He was nosing
round. I would gladly forget, ignore, or all
obliterate half the years that had elapsed
since last I saw him, but my piercing eyes
marked him straightway for my cousin, H.
G. Wells. ‘
“I take it,” he said, “that you are Mar-
tians. If you will come up to Church Lane,
my pale, fond, anxious wife is waiting with
a bottle of wine.”
We reassured him. We were simple Red-
skins in quest of a quiet life.”
He asked us sharply if Chesterton had put
us up to it. and we said it was not so.
He remarked that he was still a trifle
mystified. Was the propeller driven from
the carburetter, or the main brace?”
“It is driven from the starboard locker ”
Peter informed him. “My own idea—en-
tirely my own idea. We get our power by
the application of blue glue to the spifli-
eator.”
My cousin bowed his grateful acknow-
lodgments. Because he seemed remotely un-
willing, we sat him on a rivet and strapped
film securely down; and two minutes later
the white horses of the channel were can-
tering away beneath us, and Mrs. Lallah of
Potts Point was remarking to the chief offi-
oer that they were observed, and after all
she would see him in London on Tuesday,
I thought it a good opportunity to fish, and
so cast out a line ; but I only caught a gar-
goyle as we swept over Notre Dame. I
dropped the gargoyle sadly, but brightened
up when I noticed that it had killed a gen-
darme at Marseilles.
Algiers is a riot of furious colors, in imi-
tation of Frank Brangwyn, and the Sahara
is as yellow as a bilious headache on Christ-
mas morning. The Hamran Arabs are so
hospitable that the passing guest arises and
cleans his teeth vigorously before the phan-
tom of false morning dies. These facts aid-
noted for the satisfaction of the utterly um
travelled.
As we licked along above Dahomey, Wells
fetched forth his neck and spoke; but we
were going some, and before his words could
reach me they were irrecoverably lost in the
drift a dozen miles astern. I think he
wanted to go home. And so in due course
we paused above Lake Tchad, and chere lay
bathed in sunlight as hot (as my friend
Senator Keating would say) as a sweeping
simile elaborated in the Bedfordian manner,
This is where I pause to collect my thoughts,
Peter told us that he had long nursed a
theory that the mislaid city of Atlanta lay
at the bottom of Tchad; and he suggested
that we should dive and see. But ever since
1 was a tin - v child 1 have been somewhat
timid in the presence of the sleek but trucu-
len(; rhinoceros, and I protested. Wells men-
tioned that his chest was troubling him a
hit, and it might not be wise for him to go
diving.
1 agreed, cordially. “We must not be too
inquisitive” I said. “When Africa is in
the mood to deliquesce, why butt in? Let
Tchad have a chance.”
“But,” Wells asked me earnestly, “what
would a Martian do?”
1 said 1 didn’t know: he could search me.
Tben Peter slipped in his contribution to
thls tremendous talk. “Oh, get work!”
he said.
A rhino, came to the surface to breathe
and consider. The vapor of his respiration
showed white against the raw, red, reckless
dawn. The gentle beast had a mouth like
the pit of doom, or the yawn of a deadhead,
whence issued a plaint as of the ghosts of
innocent creatures newly eaten. I leaned
over to examine this phenomenon more
closely. The straps gave, and I hurtled
downward with a velocity appropriate to the
occasion. Peter yelled to me not to mind,
because he’d catch the rhino, and dig me out
in no time. Without any interruption of
my journey, I felt strangely comforted,
The rhinoceros winked up at me with his
little, lonely, laughing, loose left eye— : a left
eye like George Houston Reid’s exactly—
and I heard him chuckle some insensate
nlagiarisin about, catching Leviathan with a
hook. I fell into a great gulf of flesh that
yawned about me. The little voices became
more clamorous, and — 1 —
I was leaning up against a policeman’s
chest and he was demanding my address,
F.M.
His Name Was Afoo.
I WAS serving on the China station in
the ’6o’s, when I was ordered to. take
command of H.M.S. Firefly, one of the
gunboats stationed about Hong Kong to
watch the fleets of piratical junks which
then infested Chinese waters. The pirates
were always challenging us, either out of
sheer love of devilment, or for the purpose
of engaging our attention while their mates
raided and slit throats elsewhere. _ Conse-
quently we led a fairly fast and vicious life
—or as fast and vicious as we could make
it with steam and gunpowder.
Most of the stewards and servants of the
warships were Chinese; and on my assum-
ing command there was a vacancy on
the Firefly, owing to the captain’s servant
having gone home to pay a visit to his mo-
ther. The Chinaman is always wanting to go
home and visit his mother; but, fortunately,
there is always another Chinaman on hand
to take up his work. Shortly after the de-
parture of the homesick son, there appeared
on the scene as candidate for the vacancy
the most angelic-looking being I have ever
seen off a stained-glass window. lie might
have been any age from 12 to 25; he was
suave and smiling; he rustled about clad in
fine silk, and'had a perfect mannei\ In a
caressing voice he confided to us that his
name was Afoo. We engaged him on the
spot, and then sat back and revelled in his
wizard-like perfection. Never in that land
of good servants had any of us met another
who could approach him. He glided about
like a zephyr, and handed you whatever you
wanted as soon as your eye lit on it, or else
had it waiting before you thought of it;
then he compounded curries and cocktails
which would have made the fortune of a
London hotel, and worked noiselessly like an
ivory-tinted angel. He was the sort of ser-
vant good landladies will find without the
aid of registry offices when they get to
Heaven.
A few days after he had joined, we went
out to find and engage a large fleet of junks
which were in the vicinity. When we had
come up with our quarry and cleared for
action, I went round inspecting everything
and everybody, to see that all was fit for
the coming struggle. Now, it was Afoo’s
duty, as my servant, to' be stationed in the
after-companion and hand up the ammuni-
tion for the two quarter-deck guns and
small arms. It suddenly occurred to me
that such a gentle soul as Afoo might be
unfit for the work, so I looked down anxi-
ously to see what he was doing.
I found him stahding ready at his sta-
tion ; but he was a totally different Afoo
to the noiseless cabin servant. No longer
tbe cherub, he was stripped save for a pair
of cotton pants tucked up tight round his
thighs ; his pigtail was twisted up tight, his
eyes gleamed like live coals, and his expres-
sion was that of a demon ravenous for
bloodshed. In his girdle was stuck the
ugliest-looking knife I had ever seen. I felt
satisfied about his fitness for anything in the
way of warfare, and gave him a nod of ap-
proval as I withdrew.
Then we went at it. , , ,
In the o£ a couple of hours’ hard
fighting, during which we sank a junk or
two, and crippled the admiral’s craft sufh-
ciently to make it safe on board, Afoo worked
an( i fought like one of Nelson’s men. With
BWeat poU ring from Mg b i ood - smea red body
and powder-grimed face he looked more like
a fiend than ever, and I found myself won-
dering if he could really be the angelic
tjJerday^befo£> nkS Wh ° ;ioined US ° nly
When we hurriedly mustered the remnant
0 f tbe erew f or tbe g na j dagb on the crip-
pled j unk and hig treasure c hest, Afoo, in
a per f ect frenzy of joy, rushed on deck with
a bo ttle of brandy to refresh the weary.
Bearing swiftly down on the pirate
craft, we boarded on the wea ther quarter.
with four men I clambered up the side of
tbe high pooP; where j £ound myself op .
posed by the angl . y old admira i himself and
nine of his o ffi cers ; Just as i mana ged to
run my sword through his throat something
fl ew p ast me w j t h a steely flash, and, dodg-
j. ng fyetwen the officers’ legs like a dog, rip-
ped the m up the groin in the most masterful
manner. The ripper was our gentle Afoo!
With the help of his appalling knife, we
soon had the poop clear. Then, with the
dec ks strewn with dead, and the sea
spec ked with the heads of swimming fugi-
tives, Afoo suddenly disappeared. After a
brief survey of the damage on the main deck,
aad ag j urned a ft £o i the cabin and see
£o £be fj r j ng 0 f the vessel, I caught sigh I
o£ Afoo at the top of the hatchway stacking
upsome half-dozen bags of coin. “No more—
a]j finish,” he said in terse, business-like
way> We transferred the treasure to the
Fire fl y without further delay, and Afoo
a g a j n disappeared, this time into the junk’s
ca hi n . i n a few minutes a tongue of flame
licked up, and Afoo, the incendiary, jumped
t 0 the Firefly’s deck. We cast off, and,
steaming away some distance, waited till
the fire reached the magazine and blew the
p i ra f e vessel at the sky. Then we took two
pr j ze s in tow, and steamed off triumphantly
£or jj ong Kong
We had not travelled many knots on our
when Afoo, the clean, silent servant, ap-
'. ed aiu a ’ rrayed in silk as before, and
1 d w 6 ith ’ a t 0 f liquid refreshments
which he handed £ ound tho Ugh he had
n . been doi anyth i n g else all his life,
« Well rm d T d/ spluttered a grimy lieu-
tenant as the servant noiselessly disappeared
i£h . the tray of empty g i asses . Nobody
reproved him for the damn r we all had the
AL feolinir
'., . „ „
a F riva ] in H° n g t T 9 i
< :aiae aboard ’ and ™ hen °?
bad s ® rv . ed • , dl ! n ks and a
amazed him with the story of the action and
AWs share m it. Then Icalled Afoo hiim-
in and as k ed b .( m b TTT *9 W came
to know so much about fighting.
Artlessly he told us all. He was the son
of a Pitoug (pirate), and had practised
piracy all his life up to the time he took
over the stewards job. When we had got
over that much, he turned to me, and, with
the light of appreciation in his eye, informed
me in front of my shaking superior officer:
“You velly best pitong! ever see.
HARRY BRAKESPEARE.


'if-'.AI
1
Oil
/•
For STATIONARY
and MARINE
PURPOSES
No
Carburetter
or
Vaporiser.
sdf
No
Ignition
Apparatus.
makes the following claims upon your attention :
1— It uses cheap lamp oil (such as kerosene), and other residuals.
2 -The oil is injected directly into the cylinder, thus dispensing .with unre-
liable and inefficient vaporisers.
3 -It is very simple in construction, there being no electric ignition or other
complicated mechanism.
4 Its speeds are such that electric generators and centrifugal pumps may
be coupled direct.
5 No skilled labor is required, the supply of fuel and lubricant being all
the attention necessary.
FULL PARTICULARS FROM
The Westinghouse Brake Company of Australasia Ltd.,
14 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Queensland Agents; Holmes & Church, Brisbane.
Latest Standard HOT POINT
ELECTRIC IRON. Instantly
connected. Hot Iron and
Cool Handle.
MADE in 31b. arid 61b. weights ; in sizes 2|" x ss", and 4" x 6£" ;
witii a 330, 500 and 575 wattage. Prices 25/-, respectively.
It has a pressed steel top, metal covered plug—easy to re-
move—a glittering mirror finish—and, over all, our guarantee.
Thoroughly efficient for both light and heavy work ; simple, yet
strong: clean, handy and inexpensive. Can also be supplied in
larger sizes for Laundries and Tailors up to 301 b.
FURTHER PARTICULARS ON APPLICATION TO
W. G. WATSON & CO., Limited,
CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
— AGENTS FOR
Murray's English Ale. Club Rum.
Dog Head Stout. King's Liqueur Whisky.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
Dinnefori
Magnesia
DINNEFORD'S
I IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
.of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see that
“ Dinneford & Co.”
is on every bottle
and label.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and, Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
MAGNESIA
The Universal Eemedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affeetions.
ii
99
sd
2 horsepower
'* Farmer’s Friend ’
Portable.
ENGINES WORK
ON OIL OR GAS.
Guaranteed
2 Years.
I * . Also Wood-
f Sawing, Chaffcutting
and Pumping Outfits,
J* o, or 12-h.p. complete,
Portable or Stationary.
t**«e<<eooeMt'»yhvoao
99
99
99
99
totioA&ry,
Portable,
£2s.—Terms: £lO deposit, and £1 months
ON TERMS
AH complete, with Tanks and
Pipes, f.o.b. Sydney. You have
no fittings to buy—everything
is supplied by us.
Larger Engines at propor-
tionate Prices and Terms.
Write for Catalogue.
PARTRIDGE S HODGSON
49 York Street, SYDNEY
339 Collins St., MELBOURNE
Well /Regulated J^anjilies
are fully alive to the importance of being prepared for those troublesome
attacks of Indigestion and kindred ailments common to all, and of effectively
dealing with them in the early stages before they have become dangerous
or chronic. Well regulated families are careful to have always a sound
reliable remedy immediately available, and as experience has clearly proved
the undoubted superiority of Beecham’s Pills as a family medicine, a box of
this invaluable corrective is always kept at hand. For removing such
distressing disorders as Dyspepsia, Biliousness, Liver troubles in general,
and Constipation, it is ever the wisest and most satisfactory course to
Jake
Beecham’s Pills. The remedial properties of these pills, however, are not
limited to the cure of digestive troubles alone, but exercise a specific and
beneficial influence upon the nervous system. Well regulated families are
aware that there is no finer tonic, nor any more certain means of banishing
disease from the household than may be secured by a judicious and regular
use of
Beediam’; pills.
Sold everywhere in boxes, price Hlb (56 pills ) <£ 2/9 (168 pills).
During the Progress of our GREAT REMOVAL
SALE we are offering the following
Usual Price. Sale Price
Double - Barrelled, Breech - loading'
Guns, engine-turned rib, left bar-
rel full choke, right modified, re-
bounding looks and pistol grip.
.Trial £6 2 6 £3 12 0
Single-Barrel Duck Guns, large bore,
to kill at lOOyds. Trial .. .. 850 510 0
Single-Barrel, Hammerless, Breech-
loading Guns, choke bore, excellent
sfcoek. Trial 310 0 117 0
Double-Barrelled, Breech-loading
Guns with Greener patent wedge
fast cross bolt, ohoke bore, walnut
stock, pistol grip, patent cartridge
ejector. Trial 510 0 417 0
Special Pigeon Guns, with patent
side Blips, file eat rib, top lever,
choke bore, specially selected wal-
nut stock, Greener patent wedge
fast cross bolt. Trial .. ..10 0 0 7 10 0
Mauser Principle Rifles, 22 calibre,
kill at 300yds. Trial .. .. 15 0 13 •«
Guns by All Makers in Stock.
Write for Special Satie Catalogue.
ALL ORDERS FOR GUNS AND RIFLES DE-
LIVERED CARRIAGE PAID TO ANY ADDRESS
IN AUSTRALASIA.
£mall Arms Co.
Gunsmiths & Importers.
242-244 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE
fhe'Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries-
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT.
m use since 1596.
CURES
Ask your chemist tor its history—lbe book is free—or write
S- GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, Eng.
ASTHMA CUR
lul
GRIMAULTS INDIAN CIKARFTTFS
t^!L^ pectora * ,0 °: -Asthma, N ervouo Conghs,
S^JSSSSaP® B *®*
CANT
B
BEAT
RIAR
PIPES
«M-L SHAPES
I/ each post free I/a
Quality Not Better
«n a
' Guinea Pipe
MICK SIMMONS
r srouer.
s ro/toteePFßS* roßAtvomsrs
SHOULD SEND fan tWK
m
,
MORRIS'!
ree Witches
ClflAßlTTtt®
vtril/Hi
fir for 10
HIGHEST GRADE,
fa per 100, Post Free.,
MICK SIMMONS, SYDI.EY
Storekeepers and Tobacconists should
send for our Trade Lists.
i
..
Superior to
. INJECTIONS
|CUBEBS and
ICOPAIBA*
* same
diseases without
inconvenience
in
48 hoars.
m
Each Capsule bears the nane
V
J\ I
mg g
Berated Golden teal
Compound \ I
r A safe and simple remedy for\ I
Bronchitis, Catarrh, Hay Fever
' Inflammations, Irritations, nicer*
atlon* of ALL mucous membranes
or linings of tbo nose, threat,
stomach or urinary organs.
AT CHEMISTS
Wky not cure yourself
, Treatise with each bottle |
or maHed on request.
Tit Enas Chemial Co.
lllifl
Matchless for Biliousness
A severe spell of biliousness, with the accompanying throbbing
headache, is the most wretched affliction; one feels so helplessly
ill and miserable. But there is one supremely effectual remedy
but for which the world would have bean a less happy one.
Cockle’s Antibilious Pills, honoured by inclusion in the British
Pharmacopoeia, have been prescribed by doctors all over the world
for more than a century, for
Biliousness, Indigestion, Flatulence,
Loss of Appetite, Sick Headache,
and all symptoms of Constipation.
9
C7i


ARCHITECTS specify
Mack partitions
and have a Fire-Proof,
Sound-Proof
and Vermin-Proof
DIVIDING WALL.
Write for our Catalogue, or call and inspect.
MACK. LTD.,
Royal Insurance Buildings,
Cor. PITT and SPRING STREETS, SYDNEY.
Melbourne Office: 19 Queen Street.
TELEPHONES.
«■■■■
House, Long-Distance and all kinds of Telephone
Equipment in stock—Low Prices.
Dynamos, Motors, Cables and Wires, and every-
thing in Electrical Supplies on hand.
WRITE FOR PRICE LISTS TO
T. K. STEANES, 37-43 Pitt Street, Sydney.
' [5
f i
Fibro-Cemenf
WHAT IS IT? Portland Cement ~
forced with Asbestos. It has thestrenefh %
durability of concrete, and the cool and anc !
quality of Asbestos. It is, therefore &fP r °°
light, durable, cool, ant- and fire-proof,
appearance. 0 ln
Made In Slates for roofing, Red, drey and Puml
In Sheets Bft. 2iln. x 4ft. for Walls, Lining
and Ceilings.
Used by the Australian Governments : also for
Churches, Villas, Homesteads, Dairies, Silos, eta fWlg
Write for Illustrated Catalogue “ B ” to Sole Importers
JAMES HARDIE & CO.,
Circular Quay West, SYDNEY ; and
581-583 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
WOLFE’S
The Family Stimulant.
fsd
FOR MEN
FOR WOMEN
SCHNAPPS
Motor Driven
‘BON ACCORD’
STEEL LINED
CENTRIFUGAL
PUMP
For PUMPING
SLIMES, TAIL*
INCB, eto. Also
for DREDGING
ORES, GRAVEL,
SAND & STONES
f
“BON ACCORD’*
Centrifugal Pumps.
HIGH EFFICIENCY.^
For Sand Pumping, Sewerage, Salvage, Condensing.
Irrigating, Draining, DocK Pumping, Mine Pumping, etc.
J. WILDRIDGE & SINCLAI R, Ltd 82 Pitt St.,Sydney
ENGINEERS,
IRON FOUNDERS,
BOILER MAKERS,
&Ciy &c«
MEPHAN
PROPRIETARY LIMITED.
Governing Directors
(MEPHAN FERGUSON
(ROBERT BHAND
Head Office and Works:
Gordon
■
St., Footscray, Victorfa.
Manufacturers of
WROUGHT IRON;
CAST IRON, and
STEEL PIPES.
Centra/
3236
5221
ELECTRICAL MINING MACHINERY
WAR BURTON, FRANKI, LIMITED
AGimFs FOR ERNEST SCOTT & MOUNTAIN, LIMITED, GATESEND ON TYNE, ENGLAND.
—162 Clarence St.,
SYDNEY.
■
sdf
POWER TRANSMISSION APPLIANCES.
THE PODGE INDEPENDENCE
J
— J
3
Q.
Q.
V)
A
O
o
£
Perfectly Balanced and Always
Runs True.
EVERY PULLEY
DODGE Adjustable Hangers, Post Bearings, Pillow Blocks, Couplings, Collars,
E-tc.
SOLE AGENTS— WRITE FOR PRICE LISTS.
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.,
Engineers and Machinery Merchants, 60 Clarence St., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
CAM
to
BRAND
SHOES, DIESBATTERY SCREENS
<"FORGED STEEL) (WOVEN or PUNCHED STEEL)
CAMS TAPPETS HEADS
©
Jigs, Classifiers, Concentrators, Ore Screens,
“Cam” Canvas, Agitators, Electro Plates, Oils.
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD.,
263 George Street, Sydney
525 Collins Street, Melbourne
G
