

Tk EMBODIMENT OF PERFECTION— DEWAR’S WHISKY
R. G. WAVEUNB «§fc GO.,
107 Kent; street, Sydney,
' ■ ; " —P01(«
Mining- and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE. ______
.Sw&la 6-
DIESEL
OIL ENGINES.
The Most Economical Motive Power.
535 Kent Street, Sydney,
486 Collins Street, Melbourne.
S.A. Agent: C. C. DELAND, Victoria Square, Adelaide.
HOBART.
-amt—
Jadleys Orient jjotel.
PIONEER
LEATHER BELTING
Guarantrkd.
J. C. Ludowioi & Son, Ld.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
swi
=\ v .
: Take it back.
1 must have
HUTTj
Pine Apple Brand
HAMS ®
BACON.
truy
FIRE
RESISTING
SAFES.
JUNKET made from tliese genuine Tablets is
recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the diges-
J
HAN S E NS
i mi
*>, INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially-prepared Tablets acts most
beneficially when taken daily after meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prixe Medals.
o
o
ices
‘
$-'* t'i
■1: .
,V,V
from tHe 28th
: r'" ' ■ -
OeSober, 1911.
THE SILVERTOWN ROBBER CO„ 279 George St., Sydney; Bat 55 Bolton St., Newcastle.
uy
Money advanced upon all Securities at Reasonable
Rates of Interest.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
THIS COMPANY WAS FORMED TO SUPPRESS USURY.
And at MELBOURNE, BRISBANE and NEWCASTLE.
ýtuytu
Royal
Dutch
COCOA
SUPERIOR
IN
EVERYWAY.
kllt!S!!IIIII»VIIU(lfllll!II!t!lli!l!||Iii:!I!ll||(ili{[
MALTHOID is the leading ready roofing of the
day. It is perfectly free from the faults of iron, tiles
and shingles. MALTHOID strongly appeals to all
who want an absolutely waterproof roof that is
perfect in every detail.
THE PARAFFINE PAINT COMPANY, CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
D. S. Evans, Australasian Manager.
KUPPER LAGER
Call
For
i
I
OHM
EffIEEH
BLACK
SQUARE
BOTTLE.
HELIDON SPA WATER
The Helidon Spa Water Co., in its extensive distribution, has
placed “the rational water cure ” within reach of all.
DEWHURST 8 HALLORAN. Ltd.,
Agents.
The Bulletin
Vol. 32.— N0. 1657.]
[Thursday, November 16, 1911.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, .N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Books for Boys and Girls.
Our New 24=page List contains a fine selection of attractively
bound books, splendidly illustrated, many with colored illustrations.
Send us a postcard. We shall be pleased to post you a copy.
Free to any address.
GEORGE ROBERTSON 8 CO. PROP.J LTD., 238 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
FOR THE VOICE! THROAT!! LUNGS!!!
Hudson’s “Eumenthol Jujubes.’
eT" AN IDEAL REMEDY
&MCf§
IS
ON
SOLD ONLY IN TINS, Price 1/6.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHQL CHEMICAL
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats, Bronchitis,
Influenza, and the Prevention of Consumption.
Containing No Cocame or other Poisonous Drug.
Suited for Old and Young.
Thk Lancet says: “Proved to be effective bactericidal!'
as is creosote.”
Unlike cough medicines, “ EUMENTHOL JUJUBES” do
not interfere with the Digestion ; on the contrary, the.'
have a beneficial effect, as their antiseptic properties
prevent abnormal fermentation of the food when taken
after meals.
Sold by AH Chemists, or
Post Free on Receipt of
ytuytu
in Stamps
COMPANY;
19 YORK STREET,
SYDNEY.
THE RED PAGE
Verandah Art
Is Art all wrong? Are Rupert Bunny and
Velasquez and Harry Julius all blind, and
are Botticelli and Grace Burns back num-
bers? Are our art galleries mere police
cells for the destitute in art, and should all
their trustees be burned at the stake? Also,
stands Souter where he did? These painful
doubts are raised by a careful perusal of C.
Lewis Hind’s rapturous exposition of The
Post-Impressionists (Methuen).
Post-Impressionism has nothing to do with
verandahs or the mails. No Australian, no
matter how long he leans against a post, no
matter what impression he makes upon it,
can become a Post-Impressionist. But, judg-
ing from the samples illustrated in this book,
almost anybody else can be. Post-Impres-
sionism is the new art, and three men, Paul
Cdzanne, Vincent Van Gogh, and Paul Gau-
guin, are its apostles. Whether you call
Post-Impressionism “the heart of painting”
or “an insult to the intelligence,” whether
you describe the fearsome thing as a new
religion or a new disease, doesn’t matter
much to these three. They are all dead.
Van Gogh died (insane, q.nd by bis own
hand) in 1890, Gauguin in 1903 (in Tahiti),
and Cfizanne in 1906. But the good—or
evil —they did lived after them. Long before
the movement had a distinctive name, its
revolutionary principles had swept through
the ax-t centres of Europe; but England re-
mained untouched till November of last
year, when an exhibition of what was then
labelled Post-Impressionism was held in
London.
“The Wayside Christ ,” by Gauguin.
These pictures stirred England to the pit
of its stomach. Respectable R.A.’s wept
tears of joy, or raged round with wild, maf-
ficking umbrellas in pursuit of the criminals.
Large people shrieked frenziedly for the In-
spector of Nuisances. Armed mobs paraded
the streets with banners inscribed “We
Want Art!” and an extra policeman was
stationed in front of every one of Landseer's
pictures of dogs. Tha* trouble about these
dogs was that they looked like dogs. Win-
ston Churchill remained firm, and ordered
up two batteries of cinematograph operators
to take him in that attitude. Later came
the theft of “Monna Lisa,” which was a pot
of paint thrown in the faces of the Post-Im-
pressionists. It is feared now that in-
fection will spread to Australia. In order
that the Federal quarantine authorities may
be prepared, it is necessary to define this
new plague. Let us begin with some propo-
sitions, enunciated either by C. Lewis Hind
or the Post-Impressionists.
“Expression, not beauty, is the aim of art.
A man who expresses himself sincerely can
extract beauty from anything. Post-Im-
pressionism tries to state the sensation or
the effect. To be effective, an artist must
express himself. Having expressed himself,
his business ends. He has thrown his piece
of creation into the pond of Time....
Rhythm and emotional expression are nearer
to the heart of things than representation
and photographic imitation. Post-Impres-
sionism is painting the psychological feeling
or sensation of things.”
“Post-Impressionists desired to express
the sensation an object presented to them,
never the imitation of it. To get their effect,
their sensation, they use color, apparently
arbitrarily, and play serious pranks with
drawing. These men say: ‘What you call
beauty is merely a convention; we open new
avenues of expression, infinitely more signifi-
cant than mere beauty; we eliminate the
unessential; we give the salient effects ®f
life, not the facts; to express our sensations
we use drawing and color as servants, not
as masters. YVhat you call our ugliness is
merely beauty in another form.’ ”
* That is about as near to its essence as we
can get. But further enlightenment comes
from these delightful anecdotes: —
“A lady, looking at a huge, vivid painting
of sunflowers by Van Gogh, said: ‘lt’s hor-
rible. It has no beauty. It gives me merely
the sensation of the rank glare of a sun-
flower.’
“ ‘Madame,’ I replied, ‘that is precisely
what Van Gogh desired to express.
“A friend, after looking at one of Ma-
tisse’s paintings, said: ‘Why, your little boy
might have done that.’
An example of Matisse, the Post-Post-
Impressionist.
“Matisse replied gravely, ‘lt is my aim to
see as my little boy sees.’ ”
It sounds easy.
Of Van Gogh it is stated that some of his
most personal pictures were painted when
he was in an insane asylum. His demeutia,
it is claimed, was caused by a sunstroke con-
tracted while painting. He quarrelled with
Gauguin in an inn, attacked him with a
razor, was hauled off, went home and cut off
his own ear at the base as a penance. Gau-
guin's mother was a Creole. He wandered
about the world till he settled in Tahiti.
Much of his work—some of which illustra-
ted in this book looks quite sane, even beau-
tiful —is said now to adorn the walls of the
huts of Tahiti.
Of “The Wayside Christ,” by Gauguin, C.
Lewis Hind remarks : “How mild, how fierce
is its pathos—the wooden figure, the patient,
unrefiective peasants, the truant children,
the abstract landscape, all the mystical real-
ism of this naive statement of an undying
faith. You say that this ‘Wayside Christ’
is not great art. Yet it brings tears, and it
affects me more than Tintoretto’s ‘Cruci-
fixion.’ ”
The defenders - of the new artistic faith
point to the public triumph of Impression-
ism by the hanging of Manet’s “Olympia” in
the Louvre. This movement, headed by
Manet and Minet, was scorned, attacked,
reviled for years, yet now it is accepted and
acclaimed. But, by 1880, the younger gener-
ation had gone beyond Impressionism. The
Neo-Impressionists, with their art of
pointillism, their scientific analysis of
colors, demanded to be heard. But the aim
Post-impressionism in Sculpture—“ The
Child," by Jacob Epstein.
of the Post-Impressionists was not analysis
but synthesis. And now there are to be
reckoned with, too, the Post-Post-Impres-
sionists, of whom Henri Matisse is the chief
offender. Of him C. Lewis Hind proudly
says: “I believe I am the only man in Lon-
don who can talk of Matisse without losing
my temper.” In Australia, however, there
are others. “My first sensation,” Hind re-
cords, “was one of dismay, almost of hor-
ror. That group of nudes in flat, house-
painters’ color, one green, one pink, one
pfle yellow! Those vivid streaks of paint
pretending to represent a figure emerging
from foliage into sunlight! that head with
the blatant smear of green shadow under
the chin! that abominable bronze! .. . The
kind of pictures a cave-man might have
painted had he found a rock large and
smooth enough upon which to smear his
ochreous color.”
And then he got converted. “These wilful
things, that look at first glance as if a pre-
cocious child had stolen his father’s paint-
box and smeared, with his chubby finger on
the canvas, certain aspects of life that had
dazzled his young eyes, possessed a strange
fascination.” His aim seemed to be “to ap-
proach a fresh canVas as if there was no
past in art, as if he was the first artist who
had ever painted.” Finally, “I would walk
a mile to see a new Matisse.” So would
others. Matisse says himself that his aim
is to produce “a sedative, something anala-
gous to a comfortable arm-chair which eases
a business man or a man of letters from
physical fatigue.” And another critic says:
“I have the conviction that Henri Matisse
has, after 20 years of very earnest search-
ing, at last found the great high road
travelled by all the great masters for the
last 00 centuries at least”; while a third
states: “He has liberated our eye, he has en-
larged our understanding of design.”
/Well, there’s Matisse —the Post-Post-Im-
pressionist taken so seriously. And we are
not to suppose that he is the end.
“European art may be in its infancy—a
mere baby of six hundred years. The world
may last for six thousand years, six million.
llow the people of the year 6000 will laugh
to read our solemn statements that the
canons of art had been established before
the year 1911!”
So after the Post-Post-Impressionist we
shall have the Post-Post-Post-Impression-
ist, then the Verandah-Impressionist, then
the Boundary-Fence Impressionist, and the
Telegraph-Line Impressionist . . . a row of
posts stretching to infinity, vainly trying to
overtake Art.
And, not to be behind ip the new move-
ment, this page would like to see some ex-
amples of Australian Post-Impressionism,
or Post-Post-Post-Impressionism. You have
your rules —only for reproduction purposes
you must confine yourself to black-and-
white. You must not draw things hut
the sensations of things. But please confine
your canvas to the sensations of Australian
things. Any Post-linpressions printed here
will be paid for —for even Post-Impression-
ism must live.
♦
No need for any hesitation about the
choice of a calendar for 1912. Norman Lind-
say has designed a humorous series, of Aus-
tralian types, which have been cut out of
wood and colored by hand by Dymock’s,
George-street, Sydney. The figures are sold
by that firm at 2s. 3d. each, post free. The
types selected by Norman Lindsay are one
of his characteristic bears, a sundowner, a
“Chow,” a country policeman, a stock-rider
and a jockey. By the way, Norman Lindsay
recently went to the Zoo to gaze fondly on
the native bear. He was amazed to see how
closely it resembled bis own bear.
* * * *
In The Story of Korea, by Joseph H.
Longford (Unwin, per Dymock’s Library),
the long history of this unfortunate nation
is recounted with careful detail. Comparing
Britain’s occupation of Egypt with Japan's
annexation of the nation that couldn’t de-
fend itself and relied on solemn treaties, the
author, an apologist for Japan, remarks:
“Great Britain did not permit Egypt to be
overrun by the scum of her own population,
and the timid, helpless fellaheen to be terri-
fied, beaten and plundered by bullies and
cheats from the worst slums of the great
cities of the United Kingdom, nor did she
permit the empty phrase of ‘military ne-
cessity’ to be a justification for the whole-
sale spoliation of lands and houses by her
soldiers and officers. All this Japan has had
to answer for in Korea. Writers whose
honesty and credibility are beyond all sus-
picion have over and over again described
the tyrannical oppression and ruthless
spoliation to which peaceful Korean citi-
zens have been wantonly subjected, not only
by Japanese adventurers, but by soldiers
and officials.” Peace Society please note.
* * * *
Shaw, whom Australian theatrical mana-
gers still regard as dangerous and liable to
bite, is actually a popular playwright in
London. Speaking of “Man and Superman,”
a London critic reports: “It is played to
the accompaniment of bursts of laughter,
just as though it were the most rollicking of
farces: and yet the same cynical philosophy
of sex, the same insolence of wit, are there
as once irritated our playgoing convention-
alists. They must be getting used to the
Shavian manner.”
Wang
‘•And wliat is Wang?”
“Wang is the_ Chinese peasant. His home,
named after him, is. . .somewhere on the
banks of the Hoang-ho or the Yangtsekiaug.
Here, in a little adobe hut, he has lived with
his wife and his children, his pigs and his
asses, since the dawn of history, in a strug-
gle for existence, silent, but inconceivably
intense. For, in a country, where a square
mile must nourish from ©ne to two thousand
persons, even slight variations of weather
often cause devastating famines or floods,
and! in either case, it means death to hun-
dreds of thousands.”
“And how has Wang escaped—survived?”
“By luck and the absence of nerves. Ages
ago he perceived that his nerves would be
in his way, and stripped them from him as
a runner does his clothing. So, when the
rains descended and the floods came, Wang
and his wife were always found ready.
With their children strapped to their backs,
their plough-share and cooking pots trundled
in a wheelbarrow, their pigs and their asses
driven before them at the point of the stick,
they fled again and again from disaster. But
when the calamity had passed, they invari-
ably came back to live and worship beside
the graves of their ancestors... Until Dooms-
day itself —up to the last generation of men,
the world shall see Wang rising early and
toiling late on his little fields of rice and
millet, by the graves of his forefathers
And it is this endurance, this infinite pati-
ence and industry, and indomitable cheer-
fulness, which is the birthright of Wang, and
which one day will make him conquer the
earth.”
In Australia it is hard to take Wang
seriously-—about as hard as it must be for
Wang to take us seriously. But Edith
Wherry, in her remarkable novel, The Red
Lantern (John Lane, per Dymock’s), has
found an almost untouched literary field in
the lives and souls of the Chinese. Her
hero is a Eurasian, her heroine is a Eura-
sian, and most of her characters are Chinese
or Manelm. She has chosen the Boxer out-
break for her period, and though she man-
ipulates history to her dramatic purposes,
and the conclusion is falsely melo-
dramatic. her value as a novelist lies in her
intimate knowledge of Chinese character.
An added interest for Australian readers is
her analysis of the tragedy of the Eurasian.
Thus the Eurasian, Sam Wang, the bril-
liant surgeon, educated in America, who
returns to China to become a Boxer leader,
speaks his bitterness:
“Whatever our fathers have been or are,
nothing is more certain than that we our-
selves are Eurasian, and what the world
terms bastards. We are all victims of her-
edity. implacable heredity, and, in our case,
heredity takes the form of an inward hos-
tility of alien bloods, which refuse to mingle
iu our veins. It is as if the great Chemist
had been trying new combinations, and had
not quite hit it. Our formula is somehow
wrong. We are neither European nor
Asiatic, nor are we, properly speaking, their
sum.”
Just now Wang is wakening. This novel
will give Australian readers some compre-
hension of what Wang’s wakening will ulti-
mately mean.
For a further study of Wang there is J.
Dyer Ball’s The Chinese at Rome (Reli-
gious Tract Society, London, per Dymock’s
Library)-—a readable and informative
volume. ■
Are gum leaves edible?. In Vol. V , part 4
of The Forest Flora of N.S.W., J. H.
Maiden sets a conundrum for Abo. fiends to
solve. Maiden is always receiving speci-
mens of gum and other leaves; and the sam-
ples marked, “Stock will eat,” and those
marked “Stock won’t, eat” often appear ab-
solutely identical. He says there are two
factors —the plant and the animal. Ike
plant may be edible in one district, or at
one season of the year: the animal may be
an epicufe. You can lead a cow to a gum
tree, D t you can’t make her eat gum leaves
—unless she has a fancy for gum leaves, or
the gum leaves are the sort of leaves she
likes the flavor of. Some gum trees may
have a particular taste —or the sheep may be
particular. Maiden wants information on
the edibility of fodder plants. He does not
include in fodder plants those that animals
eat only as a last resource; for, in drought
time, a cow would eat Hansard , and, even
in good seasons, a “plant” of jam-tins is a
fodder plant for masculine goats. All ol
which speculations have rather led us away
from the fact that parts 4 and 5 of this
volume contain much new valuable matter.
* * * *
“Phil P”: Re mishandling Bully Hayes
by imaginative writers —Justin Miles r or-
man, who, by the way, and significantly
enough, is author of The Garden oflnes,
drags Hayes in and out in a story, “Hayes
and the Harvest Moon.” The scene is laid
in the Fijis, and in the final the hero Hayes
shoots himself on the deck of a yacht—and
a married Lady Evelyn Hyphen follows
suit, ending dramatically across his body.
The redeeming feature is the illustrations, in
which Hayes is shown as a man—not the
caricature of Uncle Sam, which glared out
of Dorrington’s yarns. It is up to Louis
Becke to give a readable history of the
South Sea adventurer. His scattered refer-
ences whet the appetite for more, and he
knows the facts.
* * * *
“Richard Dehan,” the author of The
Dop Doctor, is stated to be the pen-name
of Miss Clo Greaves, who has written
several successful plays produced in London.


A
nee
&
10
No. 10 — Tagel Straw Hat, trimmed
Ribbon and Marguerites .. .. 35/-
dfhfdgh
5013
No. 723 — Useful Tweed Skirt, light Summer
weight Tweed, in light, medium, and
dark Grey Stripes, smartly tailored
No. 5013 —Sicilian Skirt, in Black, Navy and
Cream, trimmed wide and Russia Braid,
inverted pleat at back 13/6; Outsizes
13/6
15/6
{O
W "P"
w&igm
v
/
\
■Hh
648
458
09
BlOt
No. A6o9—Coat and Skirt, of Cream Sicilian,
with Pine Black Stripe, Collar and Cuffs
finished Black Satine and Buttons, Coat
lined Cream Twill, new Panel Skirt .. 49/6
Hat 307-
No. 648—Coat and Skirt, of Pine Cream Coat-
ing Serge, Collar trimmed Cream Russia
and Plat Silk Braids, Revers and Cuffs of
Cream Satin and Braid, Panel Skirt
trimmed Braid to match 49/6
No. Blol—Shirt Blouse, Cream Japanese Silk,
fasten in front, trimmed pin and i-inch
tucks _ .. ;. 7/n
No. 458—Sicilian Coat and Skirt, Coat lined
Twill Silk, and finished Black Satin Col-
lar and Cuffs, and pleated Black Silk
Waist Belt with Oxidised Fancy Buckle,
shaped Panel Skirt to match, in Saxe,
Navy, Terra Cotta .. .. 84/-; Hat 42/-
For the Summer Fashions
PUT PERFECT FAITH IN ...
Anthony Horderns’ Famous Low Prices
-***'"££
1730
i.; ;
596
AitTUdiuC
fHoxises
ai
8.f23
ANTHONY*' - ! fOKDEKNS
S 29
No. 1730 —Ivory Japanese Silk Blouse, yoke of Val-
enciennes Insertion and Silk Embroidery, fin-
ished tucks ..
No. 1663—Ivory Japanese Silk Blouse, Embroidered
Silk Front, finished Valenciennes Insertion
No. 257—Ivory Japanese Silk Blouse, square neck,
trimmed Applique and Valenciennes Insertion,
fasten at back, three-qttarter sleeves
No. 529 —Cream Japanese Silk Blouse, trimmed Val-
enciennes Insertion, square neck, three-quarter
sleeves, fasten at. back .. ....
No. 596—White Net Blouse, Maltese Insertion Yoke,
Lace down centre front, finished with pipings
of Colored Silk: Sky and Rose
No. 8123 —Cream Japanese Silk Blouse, Silk Em-
broidered front, finished Malines Insertion, long
sleeves 15/9
19/6
11/9
15/9
10/6
19/11
66
\B3_
No. 389 —White Muslin Blouse, embroidered front,
tin. tucks, long sleeves, fasten at back
No. 66 — White Muslin Blouse, embroidered front
and tucks, fasten at back, long sleeves..
3/11
4/11
Many Charming Styles are illustrated in our Summer Fashion
Book. Write for a Copy, posted free on request.
It faithfully presents the prevailing modes.
No. 11 —Tagrel Straw Hat, trimmed
clusters of small mixed flowers and
Wheat 42/-
ĥjghj
J>o39
No. 5023— Smart Sicilian Skirt, in Black, Navy
and Cream, .. .. 16/6; outsizes 19/-
No. 5039 —Black Panama Skirt, panel back
and front, effectively braided .. .. 17/6
m
vv*
BIB®
KKiV .«'«?>« :
®F ■■'SSj 1 ,
UaCf!'
801
S
Nor<ien®v 36
No. P99—White linen Blouse, pin tucked,
fasten at front .. .. .. .. .. 13/6
No. 607—Coat and Skirt Costume, of Fancy
White Pique, with fine stripe in Black,
Green and White, Black and White, fin-
ished buttons to match, Sailor Collar.. 29/6
No. 8026—Mercerised Spotted Lawn Shirt
Blouse, fasten at front, in Grey, Rose,
Navy, ' Black, Saxe .. .. . i .. 5/6
No. 801—Black Cashmere Blouse, trimmed
with Braid, fasten at front .. .. .. 5/6
No. 331—Smart, Striped Cambric Shirt Blouse,
dressed Cuffs and Collar, in Heliotrope,
Saxe, Pink, Green, Navy and Black .. 3/11
No. 333—Smart Striped Cambric Shirt Blouse,
dressed Cuffs and Collar, in Heliotrope,
Pink, Blue, Black, Green and Navy .... 5/6
No. 8036 —Striped Delaine Shirt Blouse, de-
tachable Collar, fasten at front, in Rose,
Navy, Saxe and Green 4/ll
&. SONS
Only Universal
Providers*
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
STEVENS
MAYNARD JR. RIFLE NO. 15.
Measures 33 inches over all. Weighs pounds. “Take Down Feature.
Chambered for .22 Long Rifle —will also shoot C. B. caps and
.22 Short R. F. and .22 Long R. F. cartridges.
Ask your Dealer.
Insist on
STEVENS.
Write for Catalogue to
ARTHUR H. HILL, Australian Represent-
ative for Stevens Arms and Tool Co,,
Box 86, G.P.0., Adelaide, S. Australia.
Send for latest Fire-
arm, Telescope and
Stevens-Pope Cata-
logues- [9
§
S^rtRINK
UNSHRINKABLE
UNDERWEAR
The extreme comfort of JAY Underwear is ensuring for
it an ever-increasing sale in all parts of the world. It is
durable, economical, and guaranteed against shrinking.
Made of the Finest Australian Wool
All the wearing parts are strengthened by patented
improvements, and there are no irritating seams. Made
in all weights and sizes for men, women and children.
SOLD BY ALI HOSIERS AND OUTFITTERS.
Wholesale only: I. &R. MORLEY and GEO. BRETiLt <x cO., London, England.
N.B.—ThB genuine JAY UNDERWEAR bears the above Trade Mark.
COUGHS
SANACINE prevents the wasting and tearing of the Tissues that occurs in violent colds, clears
away the congested phlegm, and speedily allays irritation and inflammation of the respiratory
organs, and strengthens the linings of the throat and nose. Coughs, Colds, Influenza,
Lung Weakness, Head and Chest Colds, Throat Weakness and more virulent forms of colds
immediately yield to the vigorous curative action of Sanacine. A few doses taken in the early
stages diminish the severity of an attack, and a rapid cure is assured.
ghjghj
Sanacine benefits
Russian Royal Family
A Court Official writes : “Sanacine was introduced
to the Russian Imperial Family, and they have found
great benefit from using it.”
fgufgu
SANACINE
NATURES LUNG HEALER
An Invaluable Remedy for
COUGHS
COLDS
ASTHMA
BRONCHITIS
CATARRH
INFLUENZA
CONGESTION
HOARSENESS
HUSKINESS
SORE THROAT
WHOOPING COUGH
CHEST WEAKNESS
and all Disorders of the Lungs, Chest, and Throat.
Prices in Gt. Britain: Liquid and Tablets 1/15 and 2/9. Sold by all Chemists, Stores, &c., in Australia.
Proprietors r-ASHTON & PARSONS. LIMITED, LONDON. E.C., ENGLAND.
THE
S/.
gUNTI P 1
J Forest Devil. IV w
This One Caps Them All!
“I have owned one of the ‘ Bunyip ’ Forest Devils
since 1909, and have used it in all classes of green stumps
and trees, large and small, and it has given every satis-
faction. I pulled two large trees in the township of
Marong, and plenty of the watchers stated that the
machine would not shift them. They were both pulled in
a very short time and with little trouble. I have pulled
large trees, one being 16ft. Bin. round the girth, dhe
machine, while in my use, never cost me one penny, and
is still in perfect order. I have used lots of other
machines, but this one caps them all."
(Signed) E. J. OSBORN, Marong, via Bendigo.
JOHN COOPER & SONS,
287-9 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne
When writing:, please mention this paper. (Op. St. Francis’ Church).
THE BEST STOIILES written in Australia appear in THE
LONE HAND each month. Price Sixpence.
Will Anprape «• BOOKS.
Dr. Thomas Faulkner’s
GREAT
BOOK OF NATURE
and ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE,
1908 Edition.
Vastly Improved.
The ONLY CENUINE ~WS
UNABRIDGED EDITION.
3/6, Post Free 4/-
Write for Descriptive
Circular of Contents,
post free anywhere.
Art of Boxing and Self-Defence, 1/2 ; Gold Hunter’s Adventures in Aus-
tralia, 1/9 ; Complete Book of Love Letters, 1/; How to Woo and Win, 1/1;
Astrology Made Easy, 1/1; Money-Making Secrets, 1/1 ; Minstrel Show, 1/1;
Eight Popular Farces, 1/1; Sixteen Amusing Farces, 1/1; Thirteen One-Act
Farces, 1/1; Twenty Humorous Dialogues, 1/1; Home Amusements, 1/1;
“ How Old Mose Counted the Eggs” and 116 Other Humorous Recitations,
1/1 ; Famous Dramatic Recitations, 1/1 ; “How Sockery Set a Hen ” and
other Comic Recitations, 1/1 ; Famous Dialect Recitations, 1/1; 1401 Conun-
drums and Riddles, 1/1; Art of Ventriloquism, 1/1 ; Hypnotism, Mesmerism
and Cl drvo.vance, 1/1 ; Popular Horse and Cattle Doctor, 1/1; How to Teach
Animal Tricks, 1/1; What Young People Should Know, Confidential Talks,
1/1 ; Dr. Faulkner’s Original Book of Nature, the only genuine and complete
edition, 3/6, posted 3/9 ; New Tricks with Cards, 1/ ; House Painting, Paper-
hanging, Whitewashing, etc., 1/2; 3000 Priceless Secrets, 1/8; Irish Jokes
and Witty Sayings, 9d. ; Complete Letter Writer for Ladies and Gentlemen,
1/; Dancing Without an Instructor, 1/; Lover’s Guide to Courtship ana
Marriage, 1/; Bernard Macfadden’s Physical Training, 2/9; Macfaddens
Building of Vital Power, 5/4 ; Macfadden’s Superb Virility of Manhood, 6/4;
Macfadden’s Sweethearts for Lives, 5/4 ; Australian Billiard Champion Gray s
SO~AND ANY BOOK
YOU WANT.
Mention The Bulletin.
Book on Billiards, 1/5 ; Wrestling Instructor,
with 60 Photographic Illustrations, 1/9; Bag
Punching, lOd. ; All Steele Rudd 8 Aus-
tralian Books, 1/1; Road Map of Victoria#
1/1.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne
Hn
RHEUMATISM
IN HER BLOOD.
Break up of her Nervous System.
Ordered away for a change.
But
CLEMENTS
TONIC
CURED.
THOSE PERSONS WHO SUFFER FROM ANAEMIA SHOULD READ THIS
This letter is written by Mrs. J. J. Frost, of Port Adelaide, corner of Gran-
ville and Carlisle Streets, August 7, 1911: —
CLEMENTS TONIC, LTD. .
“My present excellent health is due entirely to o/ GJement* Tomc.
I suffered from Rheumatism for a long time In of medical Urecent, jt
drew worse, until finally I got so had that I could not . j,
suffering affected my general health, and my nervous system quite-brokedow< . As
a last resource the doctors ordered me away for a TonS 2JdI decided
benefit me. One day I read of a cure effected by Elements free
to give it a trial, with the happiest After Q fi health. lam
from pain, and could get about. Seven bottles restored me V f
always recommending it to my friends. fg . (MRS.) J. J. FROST.”
Mrs Frost is but one of hundreds who recommend this medicine because they
know, by BENEFITS received, «■§* CHEMISTaEdTIOBE for it
DO Noi r °wllT S' To MQKitow. Health is always a true friend. _


Arc
You
Thin?'
Pafe?
mm kh^bii
&
m
All run dc*vn, easily tired, nerv-
ous ? And do not know what
to take? Then go direct to
your doctor. Ask his opinion
of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. It con-
tains no alcohol, no stimulation,
and is a blood purifier, a nerve
tonic, a strong alterative, an aid
to digestion. Ask your doctor
about Ayer’s non-alcoholic Sar-
saparilla as a strong tonic for
the weak.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
For RHEUMATISM
GOICRYST
and all BLOOD DISORDERS.
Packets, 3d., 6d. and Is.
n
NTS
PAT
Collison&Co.
PATENTS and TRADE MARKS
obtained in all countries.
483 Collins St., MELBOURNE.
Eagle Chambers, ADELAIDE
Write us for Invertors’ Guide. Established 1877|
Ask your Friends
why they use Cerebos
Salt ; you will find
they use it because of
its purity, or its good-
ness, or its daintiness
—or for all three
qualities,
Cerebos
Salt.
Agents —Harrison & Attwood, Sydney.
YOUR EYES!
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
EYE
OINTMENT.
INSTANT
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE IT!
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-. Or by post from
Proprietors, 443 Bourke St., Melbourne.
MILNERS’ SAFES
have the Largest Sale in the World.
II
SYDNEY : John Keep & Sons, Ltd., Clarence St.
MELBOURNE : Briscoe & Co., Ltd., Lit. Collins St.
BRISBANE : Webster & Co., Ltd., Mary St.
PERTH : McLean Bros. & Rigg.
Aus. Rep.—T. Nicholls, o/o Sydney Agents.
fguhfgu
Good for
The Children
Every mother knows that there is
no better Cough Medicine for the
little ones than “Bonnington’s Irish
Moss.” Its soothing and healing
properties are at once noticeable. It
is pleasant to take and affords relief
from the first dose.
Guaranteed entirely free from harmful narcotics
BONNINGTON’S IRISH MOSS
gained its place in public favor by sterling worth, and keeps it by the same
unchanged efficiency. For the relief and cure of Coughs and Colds, Bronchitis,
Whooping Cough, Croup, this remedy is unsurpassed.
BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTES.
Always ask for ' BONN INGTON'S”
1/6 & 2/6
Richardson Cushion Frame, Anti-Jar Ball
Bearing Roller Skates.
Used exclusively in all of the largest and most successful rinks in America,
and by all the Champions of the World, fast and fancy. RICHARDSON
SKATES have held all World’s Records for 24 years. Write for Catalogue.
Tells how to open and operate Roller Rinks.
Riohardson Ball-Bearing Skate Co., 311 Michigan Street, Chicago, U.S.A.
ghjhgjgh
RICHARDSON
CHICAGO 1
(1404.)
cr
-rr
W
“Salt-Cellars” and No Bust
do great harm to a woman’s appearance. You can increase
vour vitality, build up your strength, develop your bust to
normal, and fill out the unsightly ‘^salt-cellars.
A thin woman is not necessarily plain; in fact, many thin
women are admittedly pretty, but the admission is always
qualified with—“but, poor thing, she is so terribly thin.
No woman need stay thin and undeveloped. Dr. Falliere’s
Flesh-Food is a harmless, perfect flesh builder. It increases
the vitality and improves the general health. Some cases re-
port a gain in weight of over five pounds a week.
We publish an interesting book on the subject of attenua-
tion and development, and will send same and a Free Sample
Treatment to you free of charge, upon receipt of a 2d. stamp
All communications private and confidential. Write or call
for full particulars.
FAIXIERE FLESH-FOOD CO., 1103 Ash Street, Sydney (rear Equitable Life Building).
FREE
SIOOO IN JEWELLERY!
A PRIZE FOR EVERY CORRECT ANSWER.
This Picture Puzzle represents the Emperor
of the Zoowonjrs-'-find the Empress, mark
with a cross and return to us, and for every
correct answer we will send absolutely free a
pretty pair of Gold-cased Cuff Einks, suitable
jkljkljĥgj
for ladies or gentlemen. ... A solid gold Watch costs
from to A 10; don’t Ithrow your money away if you
want a watch that will equal for time any gold watch
made. Solve this puzzle correctly and we will send along
with your Cuff Links 20 packages of Orangine Nectar Cor-
dial to sell at 6d. each (by dissolving the contents of a 6d.
package in water you obtain one gallon of the most de-
lightful and healthful of summer beverages). When sold,
return the money received, and we will at once send you,
Free a substantial Watch and a beautiful, solid Gold-cased
Chain. Solve the puzzle and we send the prize. Write at
once, it costs nothing to try. Satisfaction guaranteed.
Home Specialty Co., 203 Ash Street, Sydney.
CAN YOU
SOLVE THIS
PUZZLE ?
ORLICKS
W FOR ALL AGES,
from the nursery upwards,
HORLICK’S MALTED MILK
is an ideal food-beverage, easily digested,
L nourishing, invigorating. It is indis-
| pensable to invalids and the aged, and
Wk provides a full diet in sickness.
hgjghj
Especially valuable
in Hot Climates.
Of all Chemists & Stores.
Samples & Pamphlets:
82, Pitt Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Horlick’s Malted Milk
Co.. Slough, Bucks,Eng.
MALTED MILK
ARE YOU
RUPTURED
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do yon
want to obtain an Appliance that is not
only COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but ono
THAT WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS. Then write us, and we will
send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUBHION APPLIANCE
Never mind if you have tried everything
else. This is something ENTIRELY NEW;
it is, in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing
leather understraps. The pad is made of
soft rubber, which exerts a GENTLE yet
FIRM PRESSURE on the CORRECT SPOT.
To show what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within
the reach of all. Csn you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT, and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women & children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins-st., Melbourne, Vic.
Tobacco
fdghfdgh
Rills!
MOST MEN would
cure themselves of
the Tobacco Habit if
they knew they could
do so easily and also
without causing
themselves disjoin*
fort. . . . It takes but
ten minutes for To-
bacco to change the
beats of the heart.
To keep it up is to
tempt death by heart
disease, nervous col-
lapse, tobacco cancer
and stomach, liver or
kidney disease.
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is, a harm-
less, vegetable remedy that will make the
user of tobacco in any form absolutely aban-
don the habit for good. It not destroys the
craving, the desire, the appetite for tobacco,
but restores to health the entire nervous sys-
tem, and aids Nature in entirely eliminating
from the system the Nicotine Poison of
Tobacco.
FREE SAMPLE.
Send 2d. stamp and we will ppst you, under
sealed cover, a Free Sample, also our Book-
let, “ The Tobacco Habit and its Consequen-
ces.” Write for particulars and Book to-day.
H. SINCLAIR <B» CO.,
DEPT. Q VICTORIA ARCADE, SYDNEY
56 tons 7cwt.
The weight of the quarter-
million Wayback Books
sold to date.
FOP YOUR BOOTS & SHOES.
MELTONIAN
PA QTT Inßkck
A A Jli or Br ° wn -
“ The World’s Boot Polish.”
PAStb
a*
BROWN *s
LLTMI.N SLACKINIi
(SON
BtRCEKE
The best and alio the cheapest Paste Polish on
the market for cleaning, polishing and pre-
serving all kinds of Leather Boots, Shoes, etc.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
E BROWN & SON, Ltd , LONDON, Eng.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Chang!
The National Assembly demanded the dismissal
and impeachment of Chang Shaun Huai, Vic -
dent of the Ministry. Chang s secretary, attempting
to read a statement, was howled down amid cries ot
“Decapitate Chang.”
When Ah Sin is rising and Ah Lo lias riz,
\vhen China in gen’ral is all of a fizz,
When pigtails are standing on end in amaze.
Believing they’ve come to the end of their
days, . ,
What slogan is this that they sling in their
f rays^
What song do they sing as a Chow Marseil-
laise?
“Cliing-a-ling-lang —
Quarter and hang!
Get a big axe and decapitate Chang!”
When rebels are rushing the gates of Pekin,
And Satan is training the guns of Ah Sin,
When Royalty shakes in its city Mantchu,
And wonders —“These scoundrels —what next
will they do?”
A clamor arises—'twould waken the dead —
“Just collar old Cliing and dissever his head!”
Over the bang
How the cry rang—
“ Get a big axe and decapitate Chang!”
Perchance, in its crudeness, this rough recipe
Might jar with the maxims of great Con-fu-
tze;
But God’s revolutions that break up a throne
Are fashioned but seldom of Eau-de-Cologne,
And people who rise like a torrent in flood
In East, as in West, are as tigers for blood ;
“Ching-a-ling-lang—
Quarter and hang!
Get a big axe and decapitate Chang!”
When England in fury saw ev’rything red,
No peace could she know till she took a king’s
head ;
When Russia grows weary of Tyranny’s yoke
She throws out a bomb —there’s a flash and a
smoke— ,
There’s a hellish upheaval of horses and car,
And a riving asunder of what was the Czar;
Tyranny’s gang
Quarter and hang—
Why should the mob not decapitate Chang?
We think (as we rpad) of the grim guillotine,
Of nobles whose ichor ran red on the green ;
And wonder if Pigtail will set up a pole
And dance in a fury a new Carmagnole ;
But China now fancies (as France did the
same )
That lopping oil heads is the gist of the game.
“Ching-a-ling-lang—
Quarter and hang!
Get a big axe and decapitate Chang!”
Now, whether he’s guilty it matters no jot,
But Somebody’s caput must pay for the scot;
And China has notions she’s safe from the
wreck
If once she gets light through the gap in a
neck ;
And Chang must remember he’s safe from
attack
And his worries are gone when his head’s in a
sack :
“Ching-a-ling-lang !”
Hark to the gang—
“ Get a big axe and decapitate Chang.”
QUEENSLAND.
F.B.
Silver Slippers.
The spendthrift Moon has tumbled all her
treasure on the sea;
The cliffs are cut from cardboard and the
sky is painted blue;
A nervous cricket trills and chirps; there’s
not a soul but me;
The world is lying idle, and I’m lying idle
too.
A rustle in the grasses—a stirring of the
trees.
Can you see the silver slippers of the off-
shore breeze?
There’s dancing on the waters when the
drowsy treetops sway;
A generous old lady is the silent, watchful
Moon ;
She scatters round her silver in the old,
familiar way,
And like the breezes dancing in their bor-
rowed silver shoon.
There’s a fairy ball in progress on the
dark, wide seas
When you see the silver slippers of the
off-shore breeze.
N.S.W.
AN UNEMPLOYED BOOTMAKER.
The Balcony.
The moon’s eye winked on the ruby wine,
And a cunning moon was she,
Fondling with light the trellised vine
On the balcony by the sea;
And there the reddest cup was mine,
The reddest cup of three.
We drank to friendship and fortune’s chance,
And we pledged the love of two,
And the cloud-caught moon looked down
askance
For the secret thing she knew—-
The touch of a hand and a maiden’s glance,
And a heart that was false and true.
Three in the light of the passing moon,
And one that spake farewell;
We spilled the wine to an old heart’s tune
Or ever the long cloud fell;
And two were left, and the dark came soon
With a traitor word to tell.
One alone on the swaying ship
Dreaming of love and friend —
Oh, warm, warm joy of the close-pressed lip
In the dusk where the shadows blend—-
Are there two with the wine of life adrip,
Spilt red to the scornful end?
The chill dawn looked on the ruby wine,
Corpse-pale she seemed to me,
While a breath of green weed, wet with brine,
Blew in from the faithless sea;
And a stained and broken cup was mine—
Ah, God, we had broken three!
N.S.W.
D.M.W.


Combination Couch and Bed.
CHANGED INSTANTLY. Size when open, 4ft. x 6ft. 7in.
T-n- <v?
V-. » Vy v V.'V i).t
V '*■ .* -4 V> '
< K
CLOSED AS COUCH,
OPEN AS DOUBLE BED
Commonwealth
Patent 12274.
Cannot get out of order; is
exceptionally strong and durable.
Just the thing for offices,
small rooms, or where an extra
bed is required.
Invaluable fot hotels, boarding-
houses, coffee palaces, and similar
establishments.
Can be had fitted with box, to
act as linen press. Three pieces
of furniture in one.
Elegantly upholstered.
CASH PRICES:
In Cretonne, £4 JOs. j in
Tapestry or American Leather,
£5 55.; in Rexine, £6 6s. With
Box, 20s. extra.
Patent Rights held by
MARCUS CLARK & Co. Ltd.
SYDNEY.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed.
Pens.
Sever*
Rfi*o Medals^
mi
w
Works : Birmingham, Eng’land l
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead penal.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
The Goldfields Diamond Drilling Co., Ltd.,
330 Collins Street, MELBOURNE, 24 Bond Street, SYDNEY. Boulder Road, KALCOORLIE, W.A.
Diamond Drilling and Water Boring Contractors.
Sole Manufacturers of The Victoria Percussion Drill. Agents for THE SULLIVAN MACHINERY
CO.’S Diamond Drills, Air Compressors, Rock and Air Hammer Drills.
Drill Carbons and Spares for Diamond Drills Stocked. Full particulars and prices on application.
WELSBACH FANS
THE WEATHER AUTHORITIES predict a WARM
Australian Summer, and a Hot Christmastime ahead.
vj
,-v.
I
ELECTRIC.
THE GAS VENTILATING FAN
has an air displacement of 216 cubic feet per
minute, with the low gas consumption of two
cubic feet per hour, fitted with Ball-Bearings,
and requires little attention ; £^
WELSBACH ELECTRIC FANS
are made to pass the most stringent test, fitted
with Speed Regulator, and can be driven by
D.C. or A.C. Current, at 110 to 240 volt. They
are highly-finished, Black Enamel Frame and
Body, with Nickel Fittings.
Designs comprise CEILING FANS, 32in., 54in.,
and 60in. Blades, Ffom £5 to £| 3
TABLE OR BRACKET FANS, 10in., 12in„
and 16in. Blades; also, the SWIVEL and TRUN-
NION FAN, lOin. and 12in. Blades.
Prices vary from £2 7s. to £3 15s. each.
Catalogue and other information from
The WELSBACH LIGHT COMPANY are offer-
ing FANS, driven by GAS and ELECTRICITY,
which will bring comfort into the Home.; life,
and increase the energy of the worker during this
hot, trying weather.
TheWelsbach Light Co. of Australasia Ltd.
Welsbach House, 302 Pitt Street, Sydney.
380 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne, Vic.
102-4 Victoria Street, Wellington.
Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth Agencies.
XMAS GIFTS
are best bought at my Store. I
pay postage on goods to any
address in the Commonwealth,
and guarantee satisfaction or
money back.
fly prices are recognised as the
lowest in Australia.
13ct. Gold, set with 4
Diamonds and 3 Opals,
rubies or sapphires,
701-
Smaller Diamonds, 50/=
18et. Gold Double
Heart Ring, set
with Diamond and
Ruby or Sapphire,
MB9
Solid Gold 2-Bar and Wreath
Brooch, set with Colored Stones
and Pearls .. . ..
1816
The Joe Davis Reliance Lever, has heavy Silver
Cases, all the latest improvements, and is-fully
jewelled. It is a really first-class timekeeper,
warranted for 10 years, and kept in order free of
charge for 2 years.
32/6
POST
FREE.
Solid Gold 2-Bar and Circle
Brooch, set with Ruby Garnet,
lO 6
SEND FOR A COPY OF MY BIG XMAS CATALOGUE
IT WILL SAVE YOU MONEY ON YOUR XMAS PRESENTS.
JOE DAVIS,
26
The Money Saving Jeweller,
Park Street, SYDNEY,
One Door from Pitt Street.
•
Who so completely satisfied
as the smoker of a delightful
Abdulla)
There’s a fascinating charm in
ABDULLA CIGARETTES.
—an evidence of quality—a soothing, pallia-
tive influence —which wins for them the
approval of all discriminating smokers.
Turkish, Egyptian and Virginian—many
grades—all neatly and cleanly packed.
Ask your tobacconist for them.
Dalgety & Co. Ltd.
Wholesale Agents
for Australia.
m
*i!«
3
Sy.{
Z
m
JT
351 — 1
s
H
HALLEY MOTOR LORRIES
are adapted for every purpose
Foe the station-owner or farmer the Halley is as entirely suitable as it is
for the city merchant. Its mechanism and construction is so perfect that
continuous "heavy work on rough roads and hills has no harmful effect on it.
The llalley has secured Gold and Silver Medals and Special Award
for Simplicity, Accessibility, and Freedom from. Breakdown.
Having a radiator specially designed for hot climates, its cooling system
is remarkably efficient in the country distiicts of Australia.
Consider what the Halley means to you! Quicker deliveries, less work
for your, horses, and a saving of considerable time and expense.
Write to us —we will send you interesting information regarding its
mechanical advantages.
15 cwt., 20 cwt. r 2i to 6 ton sizes.
DALGETY & CO. LTD., SYDNEY.
Motor Garage: 136r138 Phillip Street.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
THURSDAY. NOVEMBER 16, 1911.
Vol. 32.—N0. 1657.
Pit IOK Go.
PREMIER MURRAY’S INVITATION.
The Victorian Premier proposes to reform the Upper House of Rich Landlords. That body is to be requested to pass a Bill
depriving itself of the power to throw out Murray’s Bills as it has been doing of late.


The Bulletin
lhe National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod,
of Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mos-
man, for Tiie Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
Ltd., at the Office of the Co., 214 George-
street North, Sydney, N. S. Wales, Aus-
tralia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES: Business, 1384 Central,
Editorial, 257 City.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Per Annum .. .. ..£l6O
Half-yearly .. .. .. 0 13 6
Quarterly .. .. .. 0 7 0
By sending direct to Tiib Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six Shillings sterling you can have Tiie Bulletin
posted regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communica-
tions to he addressed to William Macleod, Manag-
ing Director.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would obligs the
paper (and, to an extent, themselves) by taking
some care as to methods of address.
■ Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, ad-
vertisements, etc.) should in no case be addressed to
the Editor, but to the Manager. To send them to
the Editor is to invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters
to anyone by name. “The Editor, The Bulletin,” is
the proper superscription for “copy.” Delay, and
even loss, is sometimes caused by addressing to per-
sons instead of officials. The person may not be
there; the official always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” col-
umn all contributions submitted, whether in the
form of Political, Social or other Articles, Verse,
Short 'Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially accept-
able), Paragraphs, Betters or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
Tiie Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS.
when the address is specified and stamps are en-
closed. But no MS. will be returned, or preserved,
unless these conditions are observed. When MS. is
forwarded without stamps for return it will be un-
derstood that the copy is to be destroyed if not ac-
ceptable. Personal applications for return of MS.
cannot receive attention. The Bulletin desires,
further, those sending MS. to distinctly understand
that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to Tiie Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
diuect reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea,
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any pic-
ture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
The Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on
account of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale
agents) to Victoria, West Australia, Queensland,
Tasmania and New Zealand; and on account of
Messrs. Atkinson and Co. and Iligby, Ltd., Adelaide
—at 1116 per doz. nett.
Copies of Tiie Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town; Dawson and Son, Capetown; The Central
News Agency. Durban, Natal; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co.. Vancouver,
8.C.: G. S. Forsyth and Co., Iffil Hastings Street;
Jepson Bros., Nanaimo. B.C.
U.S.A. — Panama-Pacific News Co., Market Street,
San Francisco; C. W. Jewett, Utah, U.S.A.; Childs
News Agency, corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego,
Cal.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port
Said.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Ilong Kong.
Ceylon.—//. John and Co.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size
6%in. x IJ/in., will be forwarded on application.
Larger sizes can be supplied if desired.
Postage Bates.
Single Copies, The Bulletin (Registered as a
Newspaper) : —Throughout the Commonwealth, New
Zealand. Fiji, British New Guinea, Norfolk and Lord
Howe Islands, lUoz. id.; United Kingdom, All Sea
Route, 16oz. Id. — otherwise, Boz. Id., and Sioz. to
10oz., Sid; lOoz. to ISoz., 3d; elsewhere, hoz., Id.,
and \d. each additional Zoz.
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 1911.
THE ISLAND OF MOTH AND RUST.
Even in these joyous days of prosperity
Tasmania still sags. It seems to be its habit
and nature to sag; it has always sagged
within this generation’s memory, and, while
the present political order endures, it will,
apparently, continue sagging. So it is not
surprising to learn from the preliminary cen-
sus returns that Tasmania is the one State
of the Commonwealth, barring Westralia,
which showed a smaller growth of popula-
tion in the comparatively good period be-
tween 1901 and 1911, than it did in the
comparatively bad one between 1891 and
1901. In Westralia’s case, it was the falling
off in the gold boom which slightly reduced
the old amazing rate of expansion. The
Golden Mile is wearing out, as all Golden
Miles do, and the State has to adjust itself
to new conditions. In Tasmania, however,
there was no visible cause for the slacken-
ing of a very gradual rate of progress, ex-
cept the downward habit, and the fact that
good times never seem to necessarily mean
good times in Tasmania. Often they only
mean good times on the continent, to attract
the Tasmanian away. But it is really sur-
prising to learn that, in these years of rich
seasons and high prices, the revenue of the
Tasmanian railways, always the poorest in
Australia, should be on the down grade.
That accomplishment in the great art and
mystery of sagging is "over tUe odds.”
Providence tried to be especially good to
Tasmania. It, first of all, gave that isle
tne regular rainfall which Australia so
badly lacks. It is the only State of the
Commonwealth which nowhere receives less
that 20iu. per annum of the gentle slop from
Heaven. Though it stands for much less
than one-hundredth part of the area of the
Commonwealth, it owns nearly one-twelftli
of the country which receives an annual
downpour of 40in. or over. It contains more
land with an annual downpour of 40in. or
over than either Westralia, S.A., Victoria or
N.S.W. Also, it is blessed with a fertile soil.
In 1902, Tasmania raised bushels of
wheat to the acre, when the rest of the
Commonwealth only collected about two
bushels. During the best year of the period
1901-1910, Tasmania was seven bushels per
acre ahead of the mainland, and, in the
worst year, as shown above, it was 19i
bushels ahead. Whether the years were
good or bad, its rainfall and fertility kept
it always ahead. For the same reasons, it
gets far more oats, barley, potatoes and hay
to the cultivated acre than Australia does.
Its fruit crops are magnificent, when it
takes the trouble to raise fruit; and it is
able to dig out more jam for export than
all the other States put together. It has
fairly good fisheries. The Lord, in a lavish
mood, gave it coal, copper, iron, gold, silver,
lead, tin and many other minerals, and gave
them in such abundance that it can produce
more mineral wealth to the square mile
than any of its neighbors. In 1909, for in-
stance, the mineral output of the sleepy little
isle was worth £1,545,000, while S.A. —huge,
dry, barren, but intensely strenuous —could
find less than one-third that amount. Fur-
ther, the Lord endowed the Blessed Isle
with about as much water-power for cheap
manufacturing as He gave to all Australia.
He threw in good scenery, a healthy
climate, and about the finest harbor in the
Commonwealth. He gave the favored spot
a long start in date of settlement over
most of its mainland contemporaries. And
then He sat down to watch the result. It
was the Sabbath day of Australia, and, after
making Tasmania, He rested. Unfortu-
nately, Tasmania misunderstod the hint and
rested also. It has rested a good deal ever
since.
Here is something of the record of the
Isle of Moth and Rust. It attracts the
smallest proportion of settlers from outside;
no other State shows such a large percentage
of inhabitants born on the premises, and
such a small percentage imported. It
possesses the only capital city in the Corn-
wealth which, at the census of 1901, showed
an actual decline of population. It ac-
quired the habit of exporting its population
very early, for, even in the period from 1861
to 1875, Tasmania was considered a good
place to get away from, and departures
steadily exceeded arrivals. It still sticks very
consistently to this habit. The island isn’t
making much visible progress in the rearing
of cattle, sheep and horses. In 1910 it had
only 121,000 more acres under crop than it
had in 1861. In proportion to population, it
has less ground under crop than any other
State save Queensland, and much less than
the Commonwealth average (1488 acres per
1000 people, against an average, for the
whole Commonwealth, of 2539 acres per 1000
people). Despite its fine rainfall, and its
general fertility, the tired spot has only a
little over li per cent, of its area under crop,
against Victoria’s record of Gi per cent.
Yet, when the Isle of Moth and Rust takes
the trouble to grow things, Nature gives it
fair encouragement. And it trusts to Na-
ture. It is the only State with no agricul-
tural college or Government experimental
farm. It was the la,st State to totter into
line (at the end of 1907) with a State Agri-
cultural Bank. That institution lends very
limited sums, and charges a specially high
rate of interest (6 per cent.), apparently for
fear the State Bank should get in the way
of Private Enterprise. Despite all the
coal and iron and magnificent water power,
Tasmania had, according to the latest figures
in the Federal volume of statistics, only 506
persons out of every 10,000 engaged in
manufactures, whereas the Commonwealth’s
average was 616. It is a redeeming feature,
however, that the wages paid in Tasmanian
factories, and the value of the work done per
head of population, were both well above
the Commonwealth’s average. The explana-
tion is that Tasmania’s one really huge job
is the smelting industry, mostly at Mount
Lyell, and that is exclusively a man’s job,
and a brawnv man’s at that. Also, it is a
well-paid industry, and not at all like the
ladies’ blouse and corset business, or the
baby-frill undertaking, run by girl labor.
In commerce —inter-State and oversea —
Tasmania stands at the bottom of the list.
It yields the smallest Federal revenue per
head —presumably because it has the least
wealth per head ; so the tax which returns is.
in, say, N.S.W. or Victoria, only drags 9d.
to light in Tasmania. It has the smallest
State revenue per head. It has had the
smallest State revenue for so very many
years that the memory of man runneth not
to the contrary. Of all the Federated
States it has spent by far the biggest propor-
tion of its loan money on unproductive
undertakings. Even “commutation of State
aid to religion” has been charged to loans.
In fact, the bulk of the Moth and Rust loan
money went for purposes that didn’t yield
a copper of direct revenue, and the result
is that, while the other States, in these flush
days of prosperity, find —for the moment at
least —that the revenue from public works
covers all the interest on the public debt,
the island finds that its revenue from pub-
lic works covers not much more than a
nuarter of the interest. So the Shocking
Example has to raise a very heavy balance
by taxation. It has less money in the bank
per head than aDy other State: in 1910 the
average deposits for the Commonwealth were
£29 13s. lid. per inhabitant, while the
Shocking Examnle had only £l9 19s. 3d. In
the savings bank branch of economy, Tassy,
in 1910. had hoarded up £8 19s. 3d. per in-
habitant. against the Commonwealth’s aver-
age of £l2 os. 3d., so again it was at the very
bottom of things. It pays the least amount
per head for education. It has the largest
percentage of illiterates. And. in 1909 (the
Federal statistics go no further), its con-
victions for serious crime were at the rate
of 298 ner 100.000 inhabitants, as compared
with S. Australia (125), Victoria (204),
Queensland (270), N.S.W. (297) and a gen-
eral Commonwealth average of 256. So
Tasmania isn’t at the bottom in everything ;
on the subject of convictions for serious
offences it would be right at the top, but for
Westralia’s record of 396 per 100,000. At
the same time, it is a sober land, and in the
matter of drunks it has the best record of
all. Then, Tasmania costs the Common-
wealth more in proportion to population for
old age pensions than any other State—pre-
sumably because its Aged are the poorest
set of Aged that the Commonwealth
possesses.
And just now Tasmania is struck all of a
heap by the remarkable condition of its
railroads. They have always paid worse
than the lines of any other State —for the
year to June 30, 1910, for instance, they
yielded fl 15s. lOd. per cent, on their cost,
as compared with £5 Us. 2d. in S.A.; £4
10s. sd. in N.S.W.; £4 15s. in Westralia;
£3 16s. in Queensland; and £3 15s. sd. in
Victoria. This year some of the mainland
States show even better figures than they
did in 1910, blit the lines of the Isle of Moth
and Rust, which have been paying worse
and worse ever since 1904, have slumped
again, and the yield is down to about £1 11s.
per cent. The net railway revenue available
to pay interest with was £81,32$ in 1903.
This year there is more interest to pay, and
the amount available to pay it with is only
£62,385, or about £19,000 less. If the de-
cline continues at this rate the railways of
old Van Diemen’s Land will come to a point
at which they won’t pay for axle-grease.
Tasmania has more people—and therefore
more possible customers —to each mile of
line than the Commonwealth average, and
its lines cost rather less per mile than the
Commonwealth average, so they might be
expected to yield a fair profit. But they
plainly don’t.
These varied results are achieved, as
already indicated, in the face of natural
advantages by reason of Which Tasmania
might be looked for near the top of the tree
of local progress, instead of lurking about
the root. They can’t be set down to drink,
for the island, as hereinbefore indicated, has
the very smallest list of drunks in the Com-
monwealth, and it has also the very smnllest
consumption of liquor. It only gets thiougli
about half as much alcohol as vigorous,
wide-awake Queensland, and it drinks 50
per cent, less than the Federal average. Nor
can the Watchman and Dill Macky set
down the general decay to the numbing and
debasing influences of the Romish Church,
for the Moth and Rust place has a smaller
proportion of Roman Catholics than any
other State save S.A. According to the
latest available figures (1901) it had 179
Holy Romans per 1000 people, whereas
N.S.W. had 260; Queensland, 246; Wes-
tralia, 234; and Victoria, 223. It is, in
fact, the most intensely Anglican section of
the Commonwealth, and one of the most re-
spectable. It can hardly even raise an ille-
gitimacy rate. Incidentally, it has so few
Jews that at the 1871 census they were set
down as 2 per 1000, and after that they
were put down as none at all. Evidently
Israel had been fleeing off the premises, for
reasons best known to himself. No other
State is so short of Jews.
* * * *
The explanation of Tasmania’s stagna-
tion, somnolence and partial paralysis pro-
bably lies in the fact that it has been a con-
sistent follower of the political doctrines of
the Tory Melbourne Argus, Hobart Mer-
cury, S. M. Herald and Sydney Tele-
graph, the doctrines of Bruce Smith
and the National Ass. There is no other
visible reason. Old Vandemonia never had a
wild and revolutionary Socialist element. It
has a Labor party in Parliament, but the
party is a small affair, though it once held
office on sufferance for a week ; and it is a
very mild institution ; and it depends largely
on the support of the West Coast miners
who, to a great extent, are not Tasmanians
at all. Tasmania believes solidly in Private
Enterprise. A larger proportion of the rail-
ways belong to private companies than is
the case in any other State. The Hobart
tram-lines belong to a private company. Gas
supplies are almost wholly in private hands.
The Government is now busy giving away
the magnificent water power of the country
to a private company, and bestowing certain
electric powers on a private company, and
handing out to a private company the right
to build still another railway. Tasmania is
never happy unless it is giving something to
a private company. And when it isn’t
giving something to a private compamy it is
“encouraging the influx of foreign capital,”
as witness the foreign loan money it brought
in to pay for State aid to religion. The
little State kept clear of Wages Boards and
Arbitration Acts, even when they had be-
come matters of course on the mainland. It
hung back all it could on the dreadful ini-
quity of Factory Acts. Under the heading
of “Registered Trade Unions of Employees,
1909” the latest volume of Federal statis-
tics says briefly, “Tasmania, nil,” though
the registered unions of the other States
number 351. Under the heading, “Factories
registered under Acts, 1910,” the same book
says in an offhand way, “Tasmania, nil,”
though the registered factories of the other
States are numbered as 13,902. As already
mentioned, Tasmania has steadily avoided
the Socialistic idea of agricultural colleges,
and its very small and recent State Agri-
cultural Bank carefully scares off customers
by charging the highest interest in the Com-
monwealth. It was almost driven to start a
Closer Settlement Department in 1907, but
the business was hedged around with so
many limitations that in four years only
140 farmers were settled on 29,545 acres of
land, and the sum invested in the repur-
chase of estates was exactly £98,142. The
department bought 13.397 acres for settle-
ment in 1907. In 1908, being a trifle wearied,
it purchased 11,780 acres. Next year
(1909), being utterly tired of what it con-
sidered a wild dash into Socialism, it only
acquired 7902 acres. And in 1910, being
deadly sick of the whole business, and
firmly resolved to get back to its Conserva-
tive bed and rest, it bought just 1369 acres.
Then apparently it died. For a generation
or two the Government at Hobart allowed
the awful Y.D.L. Co. to monopolise a huge
and fertile area on the West Coast, and to
keep it a wilderness. And when the Federal
progressive land tax drove this ancient
foreign incubus to sell, the Government
didn’t seize the opportunity. Instead, the
land and the profits are to go to a Mel-
bourne syndicate. Tasmania, hanging on
like grim death to its old traditions, its pro-
perty-elected Upper House, its big estates
and its squirearchy, is the embodiment of
the great Tory and Bruce Smith policy —-
the policy which the Tory press and the
great Bruce Smith recommend as the thing
to save the country. And as a result, the
best section of the Commonwealth is also
the most lost.
* * * *
Still, there are degrees and variations.
Launceston, in the north of Tasmania, is
sufficiently alive to possess municipal tram-
ways, municipal baths and municipal elec-
tric light. It does things in a municipal
way that old blue-mouldy Hobart, at the
other end of the island, wouldn’t dream of.
So, though it lacks Hobart’s fine harbor,
and doesn’t enjoy the prestige and profit of
being the State capital, it grows, while
Hobart, the throne of Toryism, decays.
Launceston, in the north, is the centre of
the one even moderately progressive dis-
trict which the Isle of Moth and Rust pos-
sesses. And it is worth noting that the Tas-
manian railways which pay a trifle towards
the interest bill are almost all located at
that end of the island. The incurably Tory
section of the State hardly pays for axle-
grease.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
An “Appalling” Railway.
On Thursday, of last week, there was a
sound of wailing in Melbourne, and the
same was duly reported in the papers. The
weeper was Federal Minister Thomas, and
the thing wept about was the still empty
and neglected and unrailwayed Northern
Territory. And this was the weep :
It is an appalling problem, upon the answer to
which our national existence depends.
Truly it is time that some one rose and
said that.this attitude of sedentary lamen-
tation is a folly and a great weariness.
Where, to begin with, is exactly the “appal-
ling” nature of the problem if it is vigor-
ously tackled. It is large, certainly, like
Geokge Reid’s lower chest, or the Federal
revenue, or David Storey’s stock of hats,
but that isn’t necessarily the same thing.
The Australian Government has acquired
the grandest estate that remained in the
world’s market. It hadn’t to go and scrap
madly with Turks and Arabs _ for it; the
property just quietly arrived. It is a rich pro-
perty, containing the best rivers in Australia.
It is nearly three times the size of France.
It possesses one of the world’s prize harbors
and some other harbors. It was acquired
for a price not exceeding the value of the
little suburb of Balmain (Sydney), and
even that scrap of money mainly repre-
sented improvements —the land add rivers
and harbors were practically thrown in.
There is nothing appalling about that. The
place can be turned into one of the most re-
munerative assets possessed by any Govern-
ment at the mere expense of a railway,
whereof 1140 miles remain to be built.
Queensland, with a mere GOO,OOO people and
a vast debt burden, is gaily planning the
construction of some 1700 miles of new line
to open up far less promising country than
the many-rivered Territory. On June 30,
1910, the States which make up the Com-
monwealth were busy building 1046 miles of
line, and were just about starting on 1140
more. In other words, Australia was then
engaged on a job twice the size of this
Territory line, and no one was weeping or
saying that it was “appalling.” As a notable
disadvantage, these 2186 miles of State
track extend mostly through private lands;
they are quite unlike the Territory line where
the Government will be the proprietor of a
strip of earth all the way—a strip extending
about 275 miles on each side —and will col-
lect the unearned increment as far as the
uttermost horizon. If there is any appalling
element about the railway-building business
the States have got it—not the Common-
wealth. It would really seem that the habit
of wailing about the alleged stupendous
character of the Territory job has been in-
vented as an excuse for lazy and incompe-
tent politicians; the stupendousness is
mostly a sham, but it is a handy thing to
talk about. Curiously enough, the fact, as
set forth by Thomas, that the very exist-
ence of Australia depends on this work,
seems also, in the opinion of many politi-
cians, an excuse for leaving the work alone.
Anyhow, Thomas belongs to a Government
which is toiling like a beaver to finish the
transcontinental line on which the existence
of Australia doesn’t immediately depend,
while the one on which it does depend
hasn’t had a nail driven in it for very many
years. Perhaps it is really a matter of
votes. There are votes to be gained at
Perth and Kalgoorlie by building the west-
ern line. There are no votes worth speaking
of to be gained at Port Darwin as vet —that
is why the magnificent Northern Territory
estate was sold so cheaply. There are votes
to be lost over the Territory line—the votes
of the folk who want the Commonwealth,
instead of developing its own new estate, to
build through the worst parts of south-
western Queensland and western N.S.W.
for the exclusive profit of these States.
There were no votes to be lost over the line
to Kalgoorlie because that line couldn’t pos-
sibly be dragged round through Queensland
and N.S.W. So the Government hasn’t got
mucn further than to remark that the pro-
blem of the Northern Territory is “appal-
ling.” Which it isn’t; the appalling feature
is the neglect of the business.
♦
Please Come and Commit Suicide.
When the matter is carefully considered,
there is a humorous element about the pro-
iect of Premier .Toiin Weary for the re-
form of the Victorian House of Rich Land-
lords. The Toryism of that institution is
strongly based on its property suffrage, on
its limited constituency, on the fact that
only landlords of a certain tonnage are
eligible for membership of the Upper House,
on the second fact that members are unnaid
so that poor men are doubly disqualified,
and on the third fact that the constituencies
are large and contests expensive. Feeling
safe behind all this numerous entrenchment
the House of Landlords has thrown out
Weary’s progressive measures, just as it
threw out the progressive measures of all
his predecessors. And Premier Weary,
being filled with the mild fury of a poli-
tical caterpillar, proposes to remedy the
trouble by asking the House of Landlords
to pass a Bill whereby it will deprive itself


CHRISTMAS EDITION of
“THE BULLETIN,” 1911.
A Special and Enlarged Issue
Published on DECEMBER 14.
It will contain the best Stories, Verse and
Sketches, grave and gay (mostly gay), con-
tributed during the year by the foremost Aus-
tralasian writers.
The illustrations, by “Hop,” Alf Vincent, Nor-
man Lindsay and other leading representative
artists, will be the finest Black and White work
obtainable in Australia, and will reflect the
national humor.
The Bulletin Christmas Number is the annual
reflection of the life and thoughts of our country,
and therefore useful as well as interesting.
Agents will be supplied at the usual rates, but,
in consequence of the heavy outlay on this Special
Edition, NO RETURNS will be accepted.
We would remind agents that we were unable
to fill many orders for Christmas No., 1910, and
we are anxious to avoid again disappointing our
clients.
All orders for additional copies received up
to 20th inst. will receive precedence.
After that date we cannot guarantee to supply
orders.
Single copies post free to any part of the Com-
monwealth States and Maori land, 7d.; Foreign
addresses, 9d.
of the power to be such a beastly nuisance
in future. He didn’t put any pressure on it
when it rejected his measures in the past,
but he asks Victoria to send him back to
office on the ground that he is going to re-
quest the Upper House to put pressure on
itself. He proposes to urge it to kick it-
self, and jump on itself. He doesn’t say
that he will rise against the tyrant, but
rather he wants the tyrant to rise against
himself, and suppress himself, and tie himself
carefuly to a nail as a guarantee that he
won’t break loose again after the old
fashion. It is a case of an exhausted judi-
ciary which nuts it to the criminal that it
would only be the fair thing if he would
kindly arrest himself, and try himself, and
pass sentence on himself, and then be so
obliging as to hang himself and so save all
trouble. And when the House of Landlords
refuses to deprive itself of the power to do
the sort of thing that it has been doing all
along, Weary doesn’t even profess that he
will take any vigorous steps to make it
change its mind. He proposes, in effect, to
ask the Pope to issue a decree compelling
himself in future to be a furious Orange-
man ; to ask Dill Macky to be so kind as
to turn Jesuit at considerable loss and out
of sheer love of being a Jesuit; to request
the leopard to sit up in his jungle and
change his spots by Act of Parliament; to
ring up Kaiser William and invite him to
dethrone himself without compensation and
make way for a republic. And when the
only reply is a shriek of laughter, he offers
no assurance that he will do anything in the
way of compulsion. The man who demands
a renewal of his lease of office on these
terms has a lot of assurance, but assurance
is an article with which Murray appears
to be abundantly supplied.
«
Eighteen Ounces to the Ton.
Those who feel inclined to consider
(he splendid possibilities of that new Fed-
eral asset, the Northern Territory, might
glue a casual eye on an item of last week’s
mining news. The Carter’s Consolidated
mine at Pine, Creek, on the direct route of
the railway from Port Darwin to Port
Augusta, has, it was reported, been crush-
ing for some time with good results, the
latest return being 1087 oz. from 178 tons
of stone. For three months the Carter’s
Consolidated mill has been pounding away
at stone averaging 3oz. or 4oz. of gold to
the ton, and sometimes the returns have
been as high as ISoz. to the ton. This is a
considerable difference from the present re-
cord of Bendigo, where to the ton is
now almost a wonder, and loz. is a blessing
of no small magnitude. Even Westralia
struggles along now on an average of not
much over to the ton. But the really
remarkable circumstance about the Carter’s
Consolidated mine is that it is getting its
3oz. or 4oz. and occasionally 18oz. stone
from a depth of 200 ft., AND THIS IS
DESCRIBED AS THE GREATEST
DEPTH YET REACHED BY A MINE
IN THE NORTHERN TERRITORY.
There are mines at Bendigo that go more
than 21 times as far into the bowels of the
globe. The area of the Territory exceeds
523,000 square miles—in other words, it is
nearly twice the size of New South Wales —
and how completely unexplored it is, in a
mineral sense, can be guessed by the above
figures. Certainly the results got from that
200 ft. shaft are calculated to encourage
systematic prospecting as soon as the rail-
way is shoved through, and the appalling
isolation of the Lost Province is so far re-
moved that the wandering miner need not
be more than 100 miles or so from the
nearest available supply of “tinned dog.”
A Practical Means of Alluring Immigrants.
Dear Bulletin, —At the tail end of his
budget speech Prime Minister Fisher ob-
served :
The time of the journey from Australia to the Old
Country could easily be shortened by a week. To
bring the Mother Country a week nearer is a matter
of more moment than can be imagined at the pre-
sent time. We should also have a better cable ser-
vice. (Hear, hear.)
He need not have qualified the above re-
marks. It is a matter of urgency that
communication should be made easier,
shorter and cheaper between Australia and
all the centres where white folks congre-
gate. Australians who travel spend a
goodish part of their time reeling amazedly
at the spectacle of workers pouring into
Canada, Argentina and other countries
wbiqb are painfully uncomfortable, in a
variety of ways, from the standpoint of the
poor man, and yet giving the go-by to Aus-
tralia, which, climatically and socially,
is the finest place for working people of
every class that the world has yet known.
The depressing business hasn’t half as much
to do with lack of official advertisement and
so on, as interested parties try to make out.
America only needed to impose a stiff tariff
to attract a flood of Europeans, the ma-
jority of whom had never, in all likelihood,
read a line of official immigration literature.
America had the advantage of being fairly
near as well as prosperous. The trouble
which hits this country, so far as immigra-
tion is concerned, is its remoteness from
everywhere. It is not only that the steamer-
journey here takes five or six weeks —a pre-
posterously long time when the speed that
the trans-Atlantic liners attain, nowadays, is
considered. We are cut off from the out-
side world in every other way. Letters
take a month to reach England ; cable mes-
sages are so expensive that they are beyond
the reach of all but the affluent, and they
are not put through with any particular des-
patch. Probably the-factor which operates
more than any other to give the foreigner a
vague general impression that this country
is a wild, uncivilised spot, a million miles
the other side of nowhere, is the uncanny
silence which enwraps a man the moment
he comes here. His relatives and friends
may hear from him, by letter, after many
weeks; but by cable—unless he is a mil-
lionaire or a maddened remittance-man —
never; and concerning the land where he
has immured himself, the press of the outside
world is, to all intents and purposes, dumb.
The press is dumb, because cabled news con-
cerning Australia is too expensive, and the
new arrival refrains from wiring to the old
folks at home for the same reason : a simi-
lar cause limits the local press in the mat-
ter of nows regarding the country the new
arrival has come from, and prohibits his
people from communicating freely with him.
Australia will never hold out much allure-
ment to the foreigner till these disabilities
are rectified. What it needs, in addition to an
all-round speeding-up of the mail steamers,
is a system of State-owned cables. A
penny a word is the ideal to be aimed at.
Of course there will be howls of protest from
the usual quarter at first. Twenty-five
years ago, when it cost sixpence to send a
letter to England, the Tories represented
those who talked of Imperial penny postage
as being mentally unhinged. The new
scheme is no less practicable than the old
one: and the accomplishment of it is going
to do Australia all sorts of good.—Yours,
etc., H. Singemoine.
Maoriland’s Choice of Evils.
After a brief session, Maoriland’s Parlia-
ment has been closed pending another appeal
to the country. As a session, it had com-
paratively little to recommend it, and the
trot to the pawnshop showed no sign of
slackening in speed. The pawnshop is M.L.'s
incurable vice; at least, the vice appears
likely to remain incura’ble so long as there
is a pawnshop open for business; and when
Israel is no more, and the three balls have
been hauled down, and the walls of Jerusa-
lem desolated, iuaoriland will fall upon its
IO U and cry with the Prophet: “Our
bones are dried and our hope is lost; we
are cut off for our parts.” Among the 46
public Acts passed, one of the principal was a
widows’ pension scheme, under which a lone
woman with one child is entitled to. receive
£l2 per annum; two children entitle the
widowed mother to £lB per annum; three
children to £24, and more than three to £3O.
Another sensible measure amends the Work-
ers’ Compensation Act so that all classes of
workers —manual, clerical and domestic—
become entitled to compensation for acci-
dents. Provision was also made for the pay-
ment of expenses of seamen left ashore sick
or injured; for making Dominion awards
procurable in labor disputes ; for advancing
the mineral oil industry; and for pensions
to military veterans. All of which offer no
revelations that Joseph Ward is gifted with
initiative in any virulent form, or that he
would be an irreparable loss to the commun-
ity. As a matter of fact, when the legisla-
tion Joseph is responsible for since he be-
came Premier, in 1900, is placed in the bal-
ance with his dreadful finance during the
same period, the necessity hurriedly arises for
a mass deputation of the inhabitants to wait
upon Joseph with a ticket to Greenland in
one hand and a sandbag in the other. Un-
fortunately, there is nothing to show that a
profitable change of parties could be made.
Maoriland is at the ebb of its politics, and
has been for some years. Ever since the
Boer war, the weeds of Jingoism have clogged
the stream that promised to carry it to a
political golden shore. Seddon never recov-
ered from the Imperialistic fever which at-
tacked him at that time, and Ward is cursed
with it in such a form as to blind him to
ridicule and deafen him to the hints of even
the British Government. As a statesman,
Joseph has been all that was long ago sus-
pected of him ; as a politician, he holds his
job by the fortunate (for him) circumstance
that there is no applicant for it with suffi-
cient ability to commend a change. The
Oppositionists, led by Massey, have nothing
to recommend them except that they could
not be worse than Joe’s party, which is a
doubtful certificate of character whichever
way you look at it. Labor doesn’t know its
own mind, and will be found spread in all
directions in the December elections. And,
as a last contribution to the tally of inepti-
tude and clamor of factions, the Cold Tea
party will hurl its weight behind any old
anti-beer candidate irrespective of his politi-
cal views and national principles. Altoge-
ther, the position is not much different from
that of 1908, whefi the last elections were
taken; certainly it is no better. On the face
of things as they stand, lousepii Ward
should be returned to power next month;
but whether with as solid a majority as in
the last Parliament, it is difficult to say.
Also, it doesn’t matter.
♦
The Struggle to put a Bushel into a Tea-Cup.
The Parliamentary Select Committee, which
is sitting to consider the overcrowding and
high rents of Sydney, had great luck at the
very beginning of its proceedings. It struck
a picturesque witness. He was an artisan,
with the usual need to live fairly close to
his work, so he occupied, until recently, cer-
tain premises in Annandale. For a long
time he scoured Annandale, Glebe, New-
town and Leichhardt in search of other
premises, and failed to find them. The
rent of a lean-to, which seemed to form the
dwelling portion of the establishment, had,
not long ago, been 9s. a week. The witness
or testifier took it at 13s. After a month
the rent was raised to 15s. 6d. He com-
plained (1) that there was no bath; (2)
that there were no wash-tubs; (3) that it
required three cats to keep down the rats;
(4 * that the building was dilapidated and
largely built of packing-cases, and worth
about £130; (5) that there were 6in. of
slush in the lavatory. As the owner would
do nothing, the tenant effected some repairs
himself, and his rent was then raised to 17s.
There was a good deal of other evidence
from this and other witnesses, about over-
crowding, about the universal skying of
rents, about the impossibility, or there-
abouts, of finding houses, and about the lofty
arrogance of landlords and landladies. It
was all very interesting, yet, somehow, the
inquiry doesn’t seem to amount to much.
The committee’s report might as well he
written right now, and the subject disposed
of. Here is a basis for the report:—
(1) It is becoming practically impossible, in and
around Sydney, to find accommodation at the rent
which a working man can afford to pay, yet to get
the accommodation within reasonable distance of his
work.
(2) It will become a darned sight worse as shops,
warehouses and factories spread over what are now
the residential quarters.
(3) It will become a darneder sight worse as the
narrow slums are destroyed, and wide streets built
in their stead, for every 10ft. added to the width of
a street is 10ft. less left for humans.
(4) The difficulty may be met for a while, even
with the present cottage or terrace-house system,
by encouraging 10 people to sleep in a room.
(5) Or it may be met for a time by building
gigantic tenement houses, after the fashion of Glas-
gow and Edinburgh, and allowing only four or five
people to sleep in a room, but piling six layers of
people, one above another.
(6) Or it may be met by spending about
£20,000,000 on a network of city railways, under-
ground railways, harbor bridges and harbor tunnels,
and carrying the public at about half-cost, so that
the Sydney clerk or artisan can afford to live out
near Parramatta.
(7) Or something may be done by a lot of the
people living underground, as they do in many
British cities- —notably Bradford.
(8) Or the wages of clerks and artisans may be
doubled, so that they can afford to live further out
of town, even with the present means of conveyance.
(9) As a small side issue, a little may be done
by tearing up the Domain and Botanical Gardens,
and turning the back part into residential areas and
the front section into wharfage sites.
(10) Or the attempt to make Sydney the one and
only great sea-coast city of N.S.W. may, perhaps, be
abandoned. That city contained 27 per cent, of the
population of the State in 1861, and 36 per cent, in
1901. It is now supposed to hold about 40 per cent.
Apart from these obvious devices —put-
ting the people below ground six or eight
in a cellar; putting them in the present
kind of dwellings 10 in a room; putting them
in gigantic tenement houses, in five or six
layers or strata, and several in a room;
carrying them long distances to and from
the city, at rates so low that the result will
be a dead loss ; or allowing some new sea-
coast cities to arise, in order to relieve the
pressure on Sydney—there is no remedy.
Every great city in the world has had a
look at this same question, with the same old
result. If the Committee is seeking for any
new reply to its conundrum, it may as well
throw up its job. If it is content with
the old reply, it may as well throw up its job
also.
:
South Australia, which has got into the
habit of making the legislative pace for th°
rest of the Commonwealth, has just shoved
the long-standing Steam Boilers Bill through
the Council. Away back in May, the rural
district of Trundle (N.S.W.) was deafened
by an explosion like a Dreadnought’s
broadside. The settlers in every direction
hurriedly saddled up and made for the local
sawmill, where they found a dead man and
the scattered remains of the boiler. A few
days later, the Sydney Telegraph printed a
letter from the secretary of the Engine Driv-
ers and Firemen’s Association, pointing out
that N.S.W. has no Act of Parliament to
regulate the dangerous business of making
water hot enough to work. Anyone can be
put in charge of a boiler, even if he has
never boiled anything larger than a billy;
also, boilers which have been condemned by
the Government, and boilers discarded by
previous owners, can be bought and installed
anywhere without hindrance. The mine
boiler is the only one regularly visited and
tested by competent men; the ancient steam
bomb in the middle of a crowded city block
can go on quivering and hissing over its
flames till the anarchistic owner loses his
nerve and hurriedly dismantles it, or till it
blows itself and half the block up through
the floor of Heaven. Nothing has been done
since the publication of the engineman’s
letter to draw the fires of the Ma State’s
numerous decayed kettles ; so Ma is liable, at
any moment, to find herself, with boiler-
plate in her fringe, sitting on a winded saint
in the middle of a brick-strewn golden street.
+
Following upon ex-Governor-General Dud-
ley’s remarks in Britain concerning “profes-
sional .politicians” in Australia, the Mel-
bourne Argus said that in this connection
“it would be childish of us if we resented
comments which did not take the form of
fulsome praise.” Whereupon Senator Higgs
wrote a letter to the Argus, and said,
amongst other things :
An unpaid Parliament would, no doubt, have put
up with the vagaries of Lord Dudley as Governor-
General of the Commonwealth, but not so a Parlia-
ment elected out of the wider choice that payment
of members creates. I do not suppose the most idle
paid member of an Australian Parliament would, as
Governor-General, with a salary of 1110,000 a year
and expenses, have performed his duties as Lord
Dudley did... A message for an appropriation of
£3,500,000 was dated as having been signed by
Lord Dudley on July 26, and was presented to the
Speaker of the Federal Parliament on the same day.
Lord Dudley was in Sydney, and could not have
signed the message in question. The only possible
explanation is that Lord Dudley did not sign the
message at all, that some person forged his signa-
ture, or that Lord Dudley left his signature on a
number of blank sheets of paper, so that others
could fill in the messages as it suited them. The
same remarks apply to four other messages.
The letter was refused publication by the
editor, and Higgs, in retaliation, swung; a
heavy jolt in the Representatives by quoting
the motto above the editorial columns:—
I am in a place where I am demanded of con-
science to speak the truth, and, therefore, the truth
I speak, impugn it whoso list.
After that there was a long and continued
silence.
Recruit writes: —
Touching better pay and pensions for Area Officers
and the military generally (B. 14/9/T1), let me put
the case for the Instructional Staff.'
Away back in the 90’s of last century, before De-
fence was taken over by the Commonwealth, the In-
structional men, on an average for the six States,
were receiving as much pay as they do now. Mean-
while, living has got more expensive. Industrial
Unionism has bettered the conditions of the worker.
But while the coal miner has been able to fight for
justice by means of strikes and Wages Boards the
Instructional Staff has had to lie low and do nothing.
Members can’t unionise; Wages Boards are not for
them ; and to strike would be a felony, punishable by
court martial.
The position of the men who came, on from the
old New South Wales Forces is the worst of all.
They are to-day receiving less pay than they would
have been getting by now under the old regime. In
some cases, indeed, the accrued amount of difference
is in the vicinity of £2OO. Thus the man who has
to train the young idea in the use of his gun is ac-
tually worse paid than he was before Federation.
And his is the only Commonwealth Department
where this is so.
The trouble that is going to hit the Aus-
tralian Government some day, is the accumu-
lation of what may be called first mortgages.
Its old-age and invalid pension bill for this
year is. estimated at £2,190,000, and when
the bad times come it will be practically im-
possible to cut that down —the tendency will
naturally be rather to push the total up, for
in bad times more old people will become poor
and qualify for the pension. It has taken
over the liability for transferred properties
and has made itself responsible for the in-
terest and a small sinking fund. It has
taken over the Port Augusta-Oodna-
datta railway, and that, and the mainten-
ance of the Northern Territory, even with-
out further capital expenditure, means an-
other £350,000 a year at the least. Ev/m
if naval construction stops—and it ma:r be
suicidal to stop it —the upkeep will be
£750,000 a year, with the first unit of the
fleet in commission. Yet with all these and
other national obligations, the Common-
wealth was dragooned into making an order
against itself to pay 255. per head to the
States, just as though it were the self-con-
fessed defendant in a maintenance case. In
the current year this, if is expected, will
run away with £5,770,250, and the disas-
trous part of the business is that it won’t
The Permanent Loan.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A proposal has been made in the Randwick Coun-
cil to borrow £50,000 for the purpose of road-
making.—Daily paper item.
If there is an Institution we can swear by,
That we grapple to our hearts with hooks
of steel —
If there’s anything that surely lays all care
by,
And satisfies us like a ten-course meal!
If there’s anything on earth
That brings Happiness to birth
Or draws, as roses draw the bumble-
bee.
It’s the pile of debt we own,
Every sort and kind of loan —
The Loan that keeps us full of
£ s. d.
O the Loan! The merry little
Loan!
So friendly, so familiar, and so
true!
The eager brokers shark it when we
put it on the market —
Australia’s I O U !
There are six Administrations, most con-
sistent
In supplying us with all that we require;
And if, af i.:.ics, they seem a bit insistent
In borrowing-—-it’s what we all desire!
It was once a rare exotic,
But to-day we’re patriotic,
And We make ’em on the premises, by
scores;
They are strictly up to sample,
For we had a fine example
When we dragged Three Hundred
Millions to our shores !
O the Loan! The reproductive
Loan!
So frequent, and so punctually
due;
And we never, never pay it —and
it’s proud we are to say it!
Australia’s I O U !
Then, of course, we’re pleased to know that
every Council
Is imitating faithfully in this;
In time the mere municipal amounts ’ll
Add most materially to our bliss!
Though the pessimist sneers coldly,
They wade in and borrow boldly
Do the Councils we’re so proud of —
and so fond!
What the States are missing daily,
All the Councils snap up gaily
And —fizz is opened when they sign
the Bond !
O the Loan! The little country
Loan!
So timid, and so trifling, and so
few!
There’s no reason yet for “blow-
ing”—but it’s growing—
yes, it’s growing!
Australia’s I O U !
When the season’s brown and sere, and
things are withered.
Well—we HAVE to raise a humble loan
or two!
When the season’s good we all get nicely
“blithered,”
Then, of course, we take compassion on
the Jew !
For he “stood to” us in Drought,
And we won’t see him left out,
When crops are fat, and things are
on the boom—
It would be so d——-d ungrateful!
And all selfishness is hateful —
So, we visit Uncle in his Private
Room !
O the Loan! The little Hebrew
Loan!
So handy. . . Oh, he won’t put
on the screw!
As a present from the Nation, we
have handed our Relation
Australia’s I O U !
Let the mean and cautious croakers go to
blazes!
Why, we’re raising record revenues to-
day !
Oh. I tell you, we Australians are daisies.. .
Whoop! Let her go ! Posterity ’ll pay!
Don’t talk about restriction!
The Drought is only fiction —
It’s never coming back again no
more!
It’s true there’s a Deficit —
A Million? Lor’, what is it?
Let’s go and borrow two —or three —-
or four' '
O the Loan! The festive little
Loan!
Uncles are a very kindly crew —
We can have a jolly caper for a
little bit of Paper—
Australia’s I O U !
N.S.W.
O. C. CABOT.


TO RUHA SUCCESSFUL
MOVfflG PICTURE SHOW
YOB REQUIRE
EXCLUSIVE PICTURES.
We have just received Sole Rights
for the ever popular Irish Drama,
“ Kathleen Mavourneen.”
BOOK YOUR ORDER AT ONCE.
V//A
m
SYDNEY
ADELAIDE
MELBOURNE
AUCKLAND
BRISBANE
WELLINGTON.NZ.
125 tons of
lemons used every
year in making
LEMON SQMSW
(Regd. Trade Mark ** LEMOS**)
Brooke’s Lemon Squash
has all the full flavour and
true aroma of the lemons
and is quite free from
harmful
ingredients.
CHOWMEN ! Write for particulars of the
Kelvin Generating Set for cheap electric
lighting. Jerdan’s Ltd., 393 George Street,
Sydney.
OIL ENGINES
For All Purposes.
WE GUARANTEE EVERY ENGINE
FOR FIVE YEARS.
Write for our Illustrated Catalogues.
Invincible Motor Construction Co. Ltd.
WORKS: WOOLWICH DOCK, SYDNEY.
SHOWROOMS: 35 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
And at Melbourne and Adelaide.
Franz Josef
Laser Beer
SparKling',
Refreshing',
Exhilarating'
and Pure.
Franz Josef possesses the true Lager quality
and character, being sharp, clean, and of
light gravity.
run away with less, no matter how deplor-
ably bad a year may be —in fact, it will
run away with more each year. To plaster
the national Treasury with this huge first
mortgage was a grotesque and colossal
blunder.
———♦
Far from Civilisation.
Premier McGowen (of N.S.W.) lodged a
protest, last week, against the idea of putting
the naval college on Federal territory at
Jervis Bay, because the place “is far re-
moved from civilisation.” In like fashion,
Sydney E. News declared, a few weeks ago,
that it was really no use building a railway
to the Northern Territory because the line :
Would necessarily traverse so stupendous a dis-
tance that the cost of freight would be prohibitive.
The produce of the Northern Territory can only be
carried economically to market by water.
The only possible conclusion is that it is no
use preaching the doctrine of settlement and
progress to people with minds like these. To
McGowen, Jervis Bay is just what it was
100 years ago—“far removed from civilisa-
tion” —and in his mind it will apparently
always remain so. The facts that a Federal
city is to be built some little distance away,
that a Federal port is contemplated, and
that there is abundant space for a great com-
mercial city on the bay, don’t strike
McGoWen. He can’t understand that a
place in N.S.W. which isn’t Sydney, can ever
be more than a desolation and a haunt for
the kangaroos that are bounding in his mind.
In all ins long Parliamentary career he has
never done anything to send civilisation to
this place, which is just 87 miles from Syd-
ney ; he evidently doesn't dream of doing it
or dream of it being possible for any one else
to do it. To him, civilisation is Sydney, and
will never be otherwise. In like manner, it
doesn’t dawn on the News horizon
that there will one day be towns and
population and manufactures, and a
demand for food on the transcontinental rail-
way ; that there will be inland farms the
same as there are at Bathurst or Goulburn
which can’t send away their produce by sea,
and which will depend on the railway; that
the cost of freight need not be _ prohibitive,
because there will be places besides Sydney
and Melbourne —the new cities which Aus-
tralia is going to have where the wilderness
is now-—to send goods to. There is nothing
of the pioneering spirit—the spirit which
opens up new lands, and builds new cities,
and creates new civilisations —about Mc-
Gowen and the News. They represent the
old, old stodge of Things As They Are ; They
had their prototype in that old official who
inspected the first plans of Melbourne, and
reduced Little Bourke-street and Little Col-
lins-street and Flinders-lane from being great
wide thoroughfares to mere alleys, because
they would never be wanted save as a means
whereby the settlers could get their cows in
at the back gate. Probablv McGowen and
the News can see the absurdity of that
ancient potentate. Yet they probably can’t
see that they are following the same line of
thought to-day.
Some extracts from the leading article in
the S.M. Herald of Saturday (11/11/’ll) :
The rapid development of the greater Australian
cities persists, despite the lack of proportionate
warrant from the country behind... This city
[Sydney] is fast approaching 1 the time when it will
comprise half the population of the enormous terri-
tory of which it is the capital. This is a civic
phenomenon not easily to be discovered elsewhere,
despite the universally felt attractiveness of city life.
It is aho a gravely ill-balanced state of affairs...
Sydney is inescapably marked out by Nature as an
appropriate base for a Pacific navy. If, as we are
assured by a neighboring high official, our spacious
harbor waters are not of battleship depth, then it is
demanded of citizenship that we burrow and dredge
our harbor-bed until battleship depth is assured.
Greatness of destiny is certainly not to be frustrated
by lack of such a trifle of impetus. Nor, indeed,
is the future of Svdney to be discounted by paltri-
ness of outlook of any kind, or from any source.
That future is assured to Sydney. It will be has-
tened in so far as the effort of Sydney’s citizens
towards it. in all directions of its demand upon
them, is whole-hearted, determined, unchangeably in-
sistent.
Not a word about the future of Australia or
even about the future of N.S.W.! The first
section of the yarn is to the effect that too
large a proportion of the_ Cornstalk popula-
tion is already crowded into one city, and
that the trouble is getting worse. The
second section is a howl to the effect that
the artificial congestion must be urged along
at any cost, and if there isn’t room in Syd-
ney harbor for the fleet in addition to all
the existing commerce —well, money must be
poured out like water to enlarge the harbor,
and the fleet must oe dragged there. It is
“an ill-balanced state of affairs,” and no
cash is to be spared in the struggle to make
the balance worse. It isn’t often that a
paper is found urging the aggravation of
what it says is an evil, but the S. M.
Herald is a marvellous rag at times.
When the out of the futile
Dreadnought jest the Sydney Committee had
£43,000 on hand, and it was proposed to put
this sum towards the cost of a Naval Col-
lege. The trustees have intimated, however,
that unless the college is crowded right up
against Sydney, they won’t part with the
fund, and, after all, there isn’t enough of it
to make twopenn’orth of difference in a
large public enterprise lace the Naval Col-
lege. So the Dreadnought money had better
be given to the Gaud Mayor to help pay for
the widening of William-street.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “ The Chocolate Soldier.
Royal “Alias Jimmy Valentine.”
Criterion “The Girl in the Train.”
Adklpiii “ A Romance in 1 reland.”
Palace “ Why Men Love Women.”
Lyceum Spencer’s Pictures.
Tivoli Rickards'Vaudeville Co.
National Amphitheatre Brennan’s Vaudeville Co.
Lyric Continuous Pictures.
Colonial (Nos. 1 &‘2) .. Continuous Pictures.
Alhamera Continuous Pictures.
Glaciarium West’s Pictures.
Victoria Continuous Pictures.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “The Swiss Express.”
Her Majesty’s Melba Opera Co.
Royal “ Dame Nature.”
King’s “ Prince and Beggar Maid.”
Opera House Rickards’Vaudeville Co.
Glaciarium Tait’s Pictures.
West’s Palace West’s Pictures.
Olympia Spencer’s Pictures
Lyric, Prahran Pnoto Plays.
Esplanade, St. Hilda.. The Follies.
There has been no recent Sydney commit-
tee with a bigger towing capacity than the
one which has just issued a circular to say
that it proposes to honor itself by giving
G. S. Titheradge a benefit. Especially
among men, “Tith” is the most solidly-
popular proposition known to this genera-
tion of Australian playgoers ; and the mat-
inee, which has been already fixed for the
23 rd inst. —that’s a Thursday—is going to
be a dazzling success, if Sydney knows how
to be half as grateful as it should be. Hugh
Ward lias undertaken to organise the show
itself, George Rignold will lend a hand, and
the whole forces of all the theatres and
music halls of Sydney have made themselves
available.
#* * *
“The Chocolate Soldier” is still campaign-
ing at Her Majesty’s, Sydney, and stuffing
the J.C.W. treasury with more loot than the
most successful hen-stormer in all S’Africa
got away with. Mostly, Miss Winifred
O’Connor is the Chocolate Soldier’s own
share of the winnings, but, occasionally, Miss
Amy Murphy fills that r6le, and warbles the
“My Hero,” and other songs of this latest
Strauss production.
* * s[: *
The sensational and amusing divorce case
brought by Miss Sybil Arundale against her
husband, Mr. W. Talleur Andrews, with
Miss Florence Young named, on the flimsi-
est grounds, as the “c 0.,” is still being appre-
ciated by Sydney at the Criterion Divorce
Court. Long before his Honor, Mr. Justice
Percy, takes his seat, every portion of the
space available for the public is filled ; and
his Honor shows a too rare consideration
for the public in not clearing the court when
the evidence gets really interesting. Mr.
Jack Cannot still remarks “Laddie-boy” with
such direful and parlous frequency that he
should be committed for contempt of court;
and Miss Young, in addition to singing beau-
tifully, and looking . more so, still raises
doubts as to how she manages when she
wants to know the time. By the way, the
music of Victor Leon has qualities that can
only be fully appreciated by a second hear-
ing. The dance duet by Messrs. Percy and
Prince, as usual, dislocates the traffic by its
frequent recalls. The case of “The Girl in
the Train” shows no sign of reaching a ver-
dict for weeks yet.
V V ‘l*
The Adelphi has changed its mind since
The Bulletin blushed its way into the
world last week, and has decided that “A
Romance in Ireland” shall be the next at-
tempt. Allen Doone will be supported by
Daly and O’Brien, whom Sydney has _ al-
ready met in vaudeville. The new piece
starts on Saturday.
'I I »!• v •!' i
The star turn at the National Amphi-
theatre is being provided, just now, by Smite
and Smote. Smite arrives before the foot-
lights, garbed as a road hog, on the back of
Smote, who is temporarily disguised as a
motor-car —or else Smote is the road hog and
Sifiite the automobile. ■ When they abandon
their disguises, they show themselves to be
very capable acrobats. There are some tal-
ented dogs at this ' place of entertainment,
and one Archie Glen, who supplies a batch
of jokes on the revolting subject of Work,
that have come down to us from the palaeo-
lithic age.
* 5k 5k
The Battle of Trafalgar has been raging
and Nelson has been dying every day and
night at the Sydney Lyric during the week.
This picture of the great battle is said to be
perfect in every detail, but as the people
who fought there are dead, this question
will be left open. “Salammbo,” a flickerised
and bowdlerised version of the novel of that
name, has also gained a front seat. The
Colonial No. 1 has been screening the “Gau-
mottt Graphic” account of the world’s cur-
rent events. “Belgian Cavalry” (a fine
army study), and a Western drama, “Saved
by the Pony Express,” “Sea Life,” and “The
Drummer Boy of Austerlitz” will arrive
next. As the Austerlitz folk are dead, just
like the Trafalgar lot, the details of the
drummer boy will also be taken on trust.
“The Gambling Mania.” “Pathe’s Australian
Gazette,” and “How Chairs Are Made ” have
been the Colonial No. 2’s mainstays. Scenes
in Yorkshire and British North Borneo come
witn the change.
Hanvarr and Lee, a mixed juggling team,
and Ridiculous Recco, a faller-about, pro-
vide the fresh turns of the week at the
Tivoli. Hanvarr works smoothly, and the
clubs he manipulates twinkle more or less
like the blades of an electric fan, thus giv-
ing the superheated stallite a momentary
sensation of coolness. Miss Lee is his grace-
ful assistant. Recco has an extensive reper-
toire of falls, and seems to be made of some
unbruisable material. But, clever as he is,
he would most likely be flattened out if he
fell from the parapet of tne Ma State’s debt
since Premier McGowen added his few floors
to the Leaning Tower of Cohen. Eugene
Ossipoff, the fine Russian baritone, is a dis-
tinct gain to the bill. Sam Mayo and John-
son and Dean, the smart colored pair, are
the other headliners unafflicted with the
“last nights” trouble.
“Alias Jimmy Valentine” is not going as
strongly as it deserves at Sydney Royal.
And yet it has all the elements of a popular
success. It is highly sensational, sentimen-
tal and funny in spots; also, it is
well acted and skilfully produced. If it
is withdrawn, the calamity will indicate, yet
again, that the job of picking stage goods
that will appeal to the public, is as difficult
as that of finding winners at a pony meeting.
H: $ * *
Irving’s Hamlet, at Adelaide Royal, is a
regular curate’s egg of a rendering, but the
verdict at the end is Success. For sheer in-
telligence, 11.8. has been matched by no pre-
vious Moody Dane within this writer’s
fairly-long experience, except Irving, senior.
The mounting of the play is not gaudy, and
the same may be said of the “support.” The
curious old melodrama of “The Lyons Mail”
is now being revived. At the King’s, Cava-
lieri—his first appearance in Australia —is
a quick-changer of high power. Ventrilo-
quism helps in the illusion. On the other
hand, his broken English tells against _ it.
At 'times he represents a regular procession
of characters. The Sandow pony is at this
house. Leonard Nelson hr;; a big following,
and most of the first half of the programme
is wisely left to a cl ever Pierrot crowd, “The
Wanderers.” The Tivoli has a good bill, with
Ling, the Saxonys, Louie Tracy, and the
Do-Re-Mi music-makers; it also finds room
for a deplorable “Baby,” which does a buf-
foon Spanish turn. West’s and Wonder-
graph are both starring the “Notre Dame”
story, and the latter shares Cup films with
the Umpire. At the Exhibition, Brans-
combe has brought in a new lot of
“Dandies,” and the popular verdict is in
their favor.
“THE GIRL IN THE TRAIN," AT
THE SYDNEY CRT.
Cannot, the car conductor.
W. S. Percy , as the
President of the
Divorce Court, tak-
ing evidence from
Grand opera, at Her Majesty’s (Mel-
bourne), is a bewildering and ungrateful
subject for discussion in a weekly column.
The operas are intermittent events, and some
are much grander than others, and no two
performances of the same opera have been
of equal merit. The first nights, up to now,
have been the best nights, as a rule, but not
always. For instance, “Faust,” first pro-
duced on a Monday, sounded rather as
though the rejuvenated philosopher and the
victim of bis fatal attentions had forgotten
to make Sunday a day of rest. _ Melba, it
was subsequently stated, felt quite out of
sorts, yet she got nearer to perfection than
McCormack, whose warble in the garden
scene lacked something of passion and essen-
tial sweetness, nor was his big solo an ex-
citing success. The favorite duet number,
“Let me gaze,” has been more charmingly
rendered by voices of inferior quality, and
here, as elsewhere, in the opera, until the
final trio in the prison scene brought the
house down, this “Faust” performance was
deficient in magnetic force. The Devil that
Edmund Burke presents is a dull person who
takes no apparent pleasure in his business of
devilling, Burke sings the character well
enough, but the mischievous spirit of it is
not in the tall, despondent basso. He re-
minds one of the Sorrows of Satan. Rossi,
too, is a tame, tuneful Valentine, who dies
more impressively than he lives, and young
Miss Buckman, disguised as the ancient
Martha, is a brilliant success in her meagre
part compared with Miss Ranzenberg, as
Siebel. But given the two principal voices
at their best, the public that rushes Gounod's
opera gets some great moments.
* * * *
“Carmen,” which is only a moderately
grand opera, was staged on Cup Night, and
will be repeated this Thursday and Satur-
day evenings. The large, tempestuous gipsy,
whom De Cisneros introduces in a broad-
American manner, has been eloquently des-
cribed as a snorter. She carries her heart
on her sleeve, and her knife in her boot. She
shakes things up. What with her demonstra-
tive flirtations and the furious jealousy of
Zeni (an unsuitable Don Jose, as regards
his tenor tone), the opera goes strong, al-
though Burke is not a brilliant Toreador. In
“Carmen,” the sweet little soprano of Miss
Axarine gets its first hearing in Melbourne,
and the dramatic art of that young song-
stress appears to be in its studentage.
* * * *
“La Tosca” brought the beauteous Wayda
into notice for the first time, and delighted
the more judicious. Puccini’s unfamiliar
opera undoubtedly comes second to “BohSrne”
in artistic success, as far as the season has
gone, and is so admirable for the dramatic
aptness of its elusive melodies and lurid
orchestral effects that it may be expected to
draw bigger audiences anon. The drama
appears with all its non-essentials removed.
Sardou’s work has been potted to Puccini's
requirements. From Cavaradossi’s pretty
solo at the outset to the thrilling duet be-
tween the lovers in the last act, there is no
slackening of the opera’s hold upon intelli-
gent attention. Wayda is a fine actress,
with a full range of'emotional expressions in
her art, and a remarkably picturesque per-
sonality. As a singer, too, she is a worthy
partner for McCormack, who is heard and
seen at his best as Cavaradossi. Scandiani
is a convincing Scarpia—the most real and
un-stagey villain of the story that Mel-
bourne has ever seen. Minor characters are
well played by Kaufmann, Corruccini and
others. "The performance is a success all
round.
** * *
If a critic overlooks certain fundamental
absurdities in the plot, refrains from micros-
copic examination of the characters, and
closes his ears to some of the dialogue, it
should be possible for him to sit through
“The Prince and the Beggar Maid,” revived
at the King’s, without feeling tired. The
four leading disturbers of the piece are of
royal blood, and the whole entertainment is
classy of its kind. Three Sylvanian princes
fall in love with Miss Duggan, who, accord-
ing to the programme, is the reigning prin-
cess of Illyria. Bad Prince Iliklred would
fain have her for spouse, but she would pre-
fer to become the wife of good Prince Olaf;
so, by way of a compromise,. she agrees to
marry hunchbacked Prince Michael. In the
end, of course, the Princess is conducted
altarwards by the virtuous and begutiful
Olaf; but this is only after a sanguinary
war between Sylvania and' Illyria, and the
violent demise of Hildred, the evil onp. Rut-
land Beckett is very satisfactory as the mon-
arch whose amours are conducted from behind
a field gun, and whose billet-doux take the
form of 51b. shells. Roy Redgrave, who
used to play the hunchbacked Michael, ap-
pears, this time, as the good boy of the
family; and the twisted royalty is repre-
sented by Max Clifton. Miss Olive M ilton,
as the beggar maid who conceives an un-
accountable affection for Ned Duggan, looks
like a plump and pleasing pantomime ‘ boy ,
and Ned himself fails to impress one as a
romantic figure, chiefly on account or his
unique stage walk. Temple Harrison, as a
dumb servant, pervades the play like j.n un-
dertaker in search of a job; and Miss Pug-
gan represents the owner of the face Jhat
launched a thousand troops and burned the
topless towers of Illyria.
* $
The “Repertory” management—who is
Gregan McMahon —intends to shift Ins camp
to St. Patrick’s Hall, Bourke-street, for the
coming season. This change of site for the
Repertory Theatre will bring advanced dra-
matic literature nearer to the heart ot Mel-
bourne’s alleged culchaw, and assist the sale
of season tickets for the six performances
beginning on December 4.
:j: * *
On Saturday, the Tait d’oeuvre, at Mel-
bourne Glaciarium, was “On a Tramp
Steamer,” a tale of a scrap about a girl or
limited figure and fascination. A happy
production was “Sir George and the
Heiress,” the sane comedy whereot con-
trasted with the lunacies of Tontolini, who
also capered across the sheet. In a blare or
adjectives, the Taits announce the first ap-
pearance, next Saturday, of the Ivinemacoloi
pictures, which present sights and scenes in
the hues of Nature or thereabouts, lhe
films have won the admiration of George v.,
and his more or less loyal subjects are ex-
pected to endorse his sentiments.


ghjh
vbnvbmn
New Shipments of STECKS monthly in
Burl Walnut, Circassian Walnut, Rosewood
Mahogany, Waxed Oak, Ebony, in Art Cases.
One of" the World’s
Great
PIANOS.
If the good points of all the pianos in
the Universe were combined in a single in-
strument, the result would be a piano in
no way superior to the STECK.
If you should be thinking of purchasing
a piano, and are somewhat exercised in your
mind as to making a selection, it is almost
certain that an acquaintance with the
STECK would immediately determine your
choice.
THE PIANOLA COMPANY
PROPY. LTD.,
357 Georsre Street,
SYDNEY
(next David Jones’).
88 Rundle Street,
ADELAIDE.
252 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE
(on The Block).
311 Queen Street,
BRISBANE
(opp. Q. N. Bank).
London, Paris, Berlin and New York. [7
Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED,
PITT AND KING STREETS, SYDNEY.
FIRE ACCIDENT, EMPLOYERS’ LIABILITY, PLATE GLASS, Etc.
Lowest Rates Charged.
’Phone No. 230 Central.
Skttlkmknts Prompt and Equitable.
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman.
G. HOWARD PORE, Manager.
The Household Disinfectant
Carbolacene
Cleanses and Disinfects in One Act.
Sold Everywhere Pint Bottles. | /
Spencer (Melbourne) scored heavily, last
Wee n) with an unusual study of the "insect
world. The common blowfly and the deep
artesian flea were shown lifting and juggling
sundry objects with a strength and agility
that moved the audience to cheers. Applause
also followed a film of old Etna coughing
up rocks, smoke and bad smells in a depress-
ing display of wasted energy. But a sigh of
Pam succeeded the picture of the Melbourne
Cup, which was too sadly remindful of a
beloved Trafalgar and its Waterloo.
SOME “SWISS
EXPRESS-
IONS” AT
MELBOURNE
PRINCESS’S.
The strenuous
panto-drama at the
Prin c e s s'S lias
reaped the benefit
of Cup week, when
one show is much
the same as an-
other for holiday
business purposes,
and now there is
nothing' left for tnat unpraiseworthy
entertainment but to turn up its collar and
brave the icy blast of local indifference. “The
Swiss Express” is up against it* in a way of
speaking. According to the advt., and as a
matter of ancient fact, “people have chuckled
at ‘The Swiss Express’ in Ten Foreign Lan-
guages.” The language which Melbourne
brings' to bear on the subject is partly choice
Italian and the rest aboriginal. Still, whilst
there is life there is hope for a thing of this
sort. The folk from Britain can un-
ravel the plot from the end instead of the
beginning, if the stage-manager is a sport.
They can fall down where they formerly
stood up, and turn their dialogue into a
chant, and paint their noses blue, and adopt
any conceivable means of converting a terri-
ble inflection into an accidental joke. The
possibilities of a “humorous mix-up,” as this
novelty is officially designated, are practi-
cally unlimited.
* si-. *
A chimpanzee, entitled George the First,
is the latest and greatest figure on the bill
at the Opera House. George the First ar-
rived only last week, and made his first ap-
pearance on Monday night. The bill would
be quite satisfactory even though the disturb-
ing creature in the tweed suit had not ar-
rived at all. Harry Allister’s make-ups are
a soft and soothing series of tableaux, ter-
minating in a striking suggestion of George
V. One doesn’t want to be struck by sug-
gestions of King G., but the reigning royalty
deserves special mention for looking so much
less dangerous than Deakin. Deakin, in
Allister’s impersonation, deserves to be
hanged without the option. Zelini’s bur-
lesque juggling is admirable in its way, espe-
cially if he invented most of it himself. Some
of it is as old as the Tory party. The Kas-
racs are clever acrobats, and humorous in
their acts of violence —but it is the humor
of the circus. Dave Samuels, the Hebrew
comedian, reminds the present commentator
of previous similar comedians, who were fun-
nier. And Bert Levy reminds him that an
Australian artist must go abroad and be a
gifted stranger, ere he can give a famous en-
tertainment in his own country. This coun-
try, thus far, has never tried hard to make
anv fame for local talent outside the cricket
field and stoushing arena. Bert Levy, the
handsome, debonair exponent of a quaintly
original turh in lightning-sketcb artistry, is
now taking his revenge on the management
which might have engaged him to do the
same thing for a small but decent salary, a
few years ago. An offer of 50 bob a week
practically drove Levy into exile.
Ethel Irving appears in a new and some-
what naughty play at Melbourne Royal on
Saturday. “Dame Nature,” it is said, pro-
vides the gifted lady with her strongest act-
ing part, and the critics of the Cold Country
have alleged that the story has something of
Zolaistic realism. Therefore, Melbourne
hopes to be deeply interested in “Dame Na-
ture.” Meanwhile, Lady Frederick is hood-
winking her dressmaker, disillusioning her
youthful adorer, and wearing, with matchless
grace, the glad rags that never hang pro-
perly on a Society woman until she has lost
every shred of her reputation—so says her
bitterest friend. But only for these two
more nights will Lady F. continue to em-
ploy a footman to inspire confidence in
tradespeople.
Lewis Waller, who has been engaged by the Com-
bine to appear in Australia next year, opens this
month in New York, in a dramatised version of
“The Garden of Allah.” Liebler and Co. have
secured him, and his salary is said to be the “highest
ever paid to an English actor.” Mrs. de Navarro,
who was Miss Mary Anderson (famous as an actress,
and still more so as a classic beauty of the Maud
Jeffries type), has collaborated with Robert Hichens
in knocking the latter’s novel into dramatic shape.
The central figure is a Trappist monk, who falls
madly in love fvith a devout Catholic, and, concealing
from her his position in life, gets her to marry him.
It is a delicate situation for a playwright who lacks
tlie exactest sort of inside information regarding the
Romanist attitude towards such matters; and it is
said to have been with a view to obviating the possi-
bility of a religious “howler” that the services of
Mary Anderson (a fervent and life-long R.C.) were
requisitioned.
From a railway man ;■ —
A word or two on the battle of the gauges, please.
In the discussion 1 have heard no mention of the
rolling-stock. A good deal depends on how far we
may go in hanging the carriages and trucks over
the sides of the rails. The tendency in railway
practice is to widen out the vehicles until they look
like road waggons with hay frames attached, when
loaded. It is doubtful if some of the recent rail-
way smashes have not been caused, directly or in-
directly, by this tendency. The wider the vehicle
the more oscillation. -The more oscillation, the
sooner “nips” in the road-bed grow into holes.
Hence more permanent way repairers are needed.
And this is an item to be considered when building
our great Australian desert lines. And the side-
play increases the wear and tear on the rolling-
stock also —another item in our 2000 or 3000 mile
railways. If the people insist on seven feet wide
carriages, to spread themselves around in when travel-
ling from, say, Melbourne to Kalgoorlie (and they
will need room to stretch themselves once or twice
on such a journey), they ought to have at least sft.
3in. between the two streaks of rust under them.
Again, over the long, grey miles of sand between
the East and the West, the wind will play curious
pranks. Occasionally the line will have to be dug
out of the sand blown over it. Tfie narrower the
gauge the rrfore easily will the wind show its
displeasure at being disturbed in its course across
this continent.
Outside-cylinder locomotives are superseding the
inside cylinder type all over the world. As the
power is thus further apart greater stability is
needed underneath to carry it. And the weight of
the engines is likewise increasing everywhere. The
“lift” of a 'lOO-ton engine, as each side gets the
steam in turn, needs good support under it —and not
too far under, else the “roll” during a 60-mile an
hour spin will be too much for mere human nerves.
There does not look much difference between 561 in.
and 63in. (on paper), but give me the 63in. between
my rails, every time.
“The Honorable’s” recollections :
“Tommy” Walker, -new Minister for Justice in
Westralia, is a man of eloquence. About 1894, when
he had gone permanently on the water waggon (after
a number of vicissitudes, which proved his remark-
able powers of recuperation), he delivered a speech
in the N.S.W. Assembly, in the debate on “Holy”
Hindle’s famous “Sermon on the Mount,” as it was
called—an attack delivered by a pietistic politician
(in company with Joe Cook) upon his brother mem-
bers. Ilindle said that the “three worst men in
N.S.W.” were brother M’s.P. ; and when names were
demanded he gave those of three of the decentest
men in the House—Copeland, Graham and Frank
Farnell. In the debate which followed, really fine
speeches were delivered by the three Ishmaels of the
Assembly—Want, Crick and Walker. Walker’s was
the greatest effort, and it is still worth reading.
In the Federal Senate:—
Senator Sledger: You can never suppress lying
by Act of Parliament.
Senator Givens : I would make lying so risky that
I believe even the honorable senator would not like
to try it.
Interval of two minutes:
Senator Givens : Like all lawyers the hon. senator
seems to have his moral sense so blunted that he
cannot see the outrageous and audacious indecency
and the lying vituperation contained in this dodger.
Senator Sledger : Some persons will cover up the
legs of their piano, fco fine is their sense of morality.
Senator Givens: That is why the hon. senator
departed from the practice of his forefathers. He
took to trousers instead of knee breeches, in order
to hide his bad legs.
Senator Sledger: I object now. You are becoming
personal to my legs:
The rest didn’t matter!
“Singemoine” writes
According to Reuter, “the militarj' expert of the
limes (London) has a low opinion of the German
army. He considers that it has been “trained
stale, and allows it to be understood that in a
scrap between the Fatherland ahd France, his money
would be on the Gaul. Local Kaiserphobes uttered
several hearty cheers when they heard the news.
The Times' military expert is Hilaire Belloc.
Belloc though brought up in England and a
naturalised Englishman, is of French birth and
parentage, and the son of a man who fought in the
Franco-Prussian war. His sympathies are passion-
ately French —so much so that before going to Ox-
ford, he crossed the Channel and served his term in
the French army. Which things combine to render
his opinions of the German army .of about as much
real value as those of a local ice-cream merchant
would be regarding the virtues of the Turkish forces.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“0.K.”: Melbourne musical taste is being tested
these times, and is found wanting, as before. In
Melbourne, as in Sydney, the proportion of the
population that wants grand opera for grand opera’s
sake does not amount to a row of pins. A cheap,
tawdry old thing, like “Traviata,” with Melba,
draws twice as much patronage as a new opera by
Puccini, without the boss singing lady in the cast.
The crowd of ardent music-lovers (I don’t think)
would rather hear Melba in “Dorothy,” if they could
get her, than in “Bohdme,” especially if she were
going to sing “Tally-ho! ” on a Saturday night.
They mostly applaud every sort of performance with
the same duty-bound enthusiasm; and if their de-
votion to music is very keen indeed, they read the
papers next day to discover just how much they en-
joyed the glorious entertainment. Sometimes they
get confusing instruction from the newspapers. For
instance, the Herald rightly told them that Puc-
cini’s musical version of the story gives realism to
the principal characters in “La Tosea,” whereas the
Age informed them that Puccini’s opera is
not opera at all, but merely melodrama all the
time. This from a critic who accepts “Traviata,”
“Carmen,” etc., as .operas, without a word of pro-
test against their theatrical effects! What can be
more crudely melodramatic than “Samson and De-
lilah,” where the hero starts by killing a Philistine
or somebody, previous to letting himself be slowly
fascinated by a lurid temptress who poses seduct-
ively whilst 16 ballerinas execute a ring-a-ring-a-
rosy dance around her ample proportions. Then
blind Samson, pushing a grindstone and pulling
down the temple atop of the Philistine ballet, whilst
the orchestra plays “biff” and “boom.” Isn’t that
the last word in melodrama? And “Faust,” with
its devil, who draws fireworks from a wine-barrel,
sings incantations, supervises the assassination of
Valentine, and finally drags Faust off to blazes what
time Marguerite is ascending to Heaven—is that
not melodrama? Is “Carmen” a domestic comedy
or problem play, rather than a gaudy blood-stained
shocker set to music? And the old operas, in
which the male choristers as a rule were conspira-
tors in black cloaks and masks, and the principals
went mad or committed suicide, or both? Is not
“Cavalleria” melodrama, with its betrayed heroine,
jealous husband, violent decease of the heartless
seducer, and the arrest of his slaughterer by the
police? The Melbourne public, after being implored
by the press to roll up and revel in the horrors of
other musical stories, because they <vere grand
opera, was astonished to hear that Puccini’s modern
improvement on those previous shockers is merely
melodrama. Consequently, the Melbourne public is
more than ever disposed to swear by the names it
knows best, and it will look with suspicion on the
future announcement of any unfamiliar opera, unless
Melba is on the bill. In fact, a large section of the
music-loving community has been convinced from
the first that no opera can be fairly called grand if
Melba is not on the bill.
Miss Lottie Sargent, star dancer and soubrette
actress of the_ Williamson opera co., is convalescent
after a spell in hospital at Leura. Her throat went
wrong amongst other things, and she .was condemned
to dead silence for three weeks.
“Cassandra”: As to the permanence of the pic-
ture show business, “S.T.S.” (B. 26/10/’ll) is, at
any rate, a reasonable optimist, but I can’t say his
argument clinches. He isn’t exactly fortunate in his
reference to the “vast majority” who patronise these
shows. He sizes them as not wanting anything to
“make them think.” In other words, they are but
children in mind and temperament—a fatal objec-
tion, since the child-mind soon tires, and seeks
fresh novelty. Even the phonograph, which “S.T.S.”
incidentally quotes, , was to have been in every
household long ere this, and everybody’s voice, from
goo-gooing baby to white-haired old grannie, was
to be boxed up and labelled and put aside with the
old letters and best china, and handed down as
precious heirlooms. Where are those phonographs
now? The picture-card was the one thing needful
when it first came out ; but that craze is dead too.
Are picture-shows to reverse all past experience? It
is their very multitude that will damn the whole
show in the end. Competition, in the inevitable
seeking after novelty, make no mistake about it,
will run to insane lengths of inanity and foolishness
—and probably worse—in order to keep alive the
jaded appetite of the “child-minded” patron, who
must have novelty and more novelty, till it finally
gives a great, weary yawn, and goes to bed. Of
course, pessimists are immortal. From the time
of the South Sea Bubble to the Victorian land boom,
from the Egyptian empire of the great Tahutmes
down to the poems of Martin Tupper, from the ma-
terial Hell to the City of Melbourne Bank, there has
always been the howl of the wet blanket in the land,
saying in an ominous whisper: “This Thing Won’t
Last.” There were even people who said that the
Dutch tulip mania wouldn’t last, and—do not shout
it too loud in Gath, lest you wake the police—a few
live to-day who say our loan boom won't last
EITHER.
S.S.”: Pros, complain that H. B. Irving is the
worst cue-giver on earth. The hapless actor who has
to follow on must keep his attention tense, and
watch Irving with all his eyes to discover an open-
ing, H.B. having a shocking habit of mumbling
unexpected and unheard of words. He rarely finishes
a speech in the same way two nights running, and
even when he uses the same words the subordinate
doesn’t know how often he is going to use them. He
may repeat them three times, and woe betide the
hireling who chips in before the Master has finished
his damnable iteration.
“Sr”: Are picture-shows with us for keeps?
Well, here in Tassy, Launceston and Hobart had,
till recently, been sustaining six picture-shows—
three apiece. And they all did roaring business.
There was nothing but pictures. You took your
girl to the pictures. Your boss was there. The
boss’s kids were there. Everyone was at the pic-
tures, and the till overflowed with shillings. Sud-
denly the Assyrian came down on Launceston’s oof-
filled fold, in the shape of Cole, the Bohemian —he
of the long, passionate locks and the short, velvet
coat and the wild, improbable bellowdramas. Shortly
afterwards one of the picture-shows moaned thrice,
and gave up the ghost. Then one of the Brans-
combe’s St. Kilda Esplanade companies happened
along. Another picture-show went bung, and the re-
maining one started desperately combining vaude-
ville with the flickers. Later, Cole opened in Hobart
in a tent. In a little while he found himself boom-
ing so noisily that he was fain to oust one of the
picture-shows from its hall, and establish himself
there, having sold his tent by auction. And at the
time of writing another flicker concern is scheming
to get safely out of the slump. This is only one
example, but a falling brick often shows which way
the house blows.
“D.M.R.”: “Nym” (B. 26/10/’ll) talks of noses
and Fleming and McGuclcin. Probably one of the
most heavily-handicapped mummers in this respect
was Henry Lee. His proboscis was mountainous —
a Kosciusko on the plains of Monaro. When he was
playing “Cyrano de Bergerac,” in Melbourne, the
gallery got on to this feature. Henry, nose and
all, addressed the gods across the footlights, thus
completing the damage to the show, which closed
after a fortnight’s run. Lee, with liiall, started a
vaudeville show at the Bijou, which, for a time,
hurt the receipts of Rickards further down the
street. He gave a clever turn himself, impersonat-
ing a number of more or less well-known people,
and dressing them in full view of the audience.
His art consisted mostly of disguising his nose,
which, although well within the picture for General
Booth, was right outside the frame for George
Reid.
The MaeMahon brothers recently started a com-
petition, with the object of getting something good
in the way of a name for their new picture theatre
in Auckland (M.L.). About 20,000 nominations
were received, and they were all so darned useless
that the judges gave the first prize to the bright in-
tellect which suggested “Down Town Theatre.”
Jimmy MaeMahon, who is the Sydney brother, says
if that name is accepted he’ll never drink another
rum and beer as long as he lives, but will stick to
plain whisky and a split bottle of the usual.
That very promising indigenous plant, Ivy Ray
Freshman, who was a marked success in the J.C.VV.
comic opera co., is scaling greater heights in the
land of the Fog. Word has just been received that
she is cast for the leading part of Fairy Queen in
the pantomime season at Liverpool this Christmas.
“Harrison O.’’: Gregan McMahon’s programme for
an Australian night, to eventuate next month at the
Repertory Theatre (Melbourne), has been revised.
Louis Esson, who is fastidious in regard to his own
work, wishes to further polish his political comedy',
“The Time Is Not Yet Ripe,” so an artistically
grim EssOn drama, “Dead Timber,” will take the
place of the lighter effort. The play deals with an
Outback family tragedy. The lives of the settlers are
represented as being like the dead trees on the
selection. Alf Buchanan, dramatic critic of the
Age, has manufactured a little thing of his own,
“The Flame.” The flame is the divine power of
Art, at which a burglar, with literary aspirations,
warms his hands, so to speak. Three other pieces:
“The Climax,” by Ted Dyson ; “Art for Art’s Sake,”
by Blamire Young; and a revised version of “The
Only Game,” by Billy Moore, will be introduced by
McMahon to his select public.
Marie Lohr, in the new piece, “The Marionettes,”
at the London Comedy, has to sav: “Nothing bores
people so much nowadays as a really good woman.”
This sentiment has shocked some people, and Marie
was somewhat stupidly approached by an Express
interviewer with the question whether she reallv
believed it herself. Of course, she replied tbac
actresses were not personally responsible for the
sentiments placed in their mouths by authors. The
little row recalls a bigger one that happened, years
ago, when Dr. J. E. Nield, of Melbourne, told the
Argus that it was only the woman with the past
who was really interesting in the present. Nield
used to chuckle as he recalled that the most vio-
lent snorts of protest came from the most interest-
ing women.
“Harrison O.”: The first performance of “La
Tosca,” with Wayda in the name part, and Scan
diani as Scarpia, was equal to anything in the first
fortnight of the opera co.’s Melbourne season. Scan-
diani is probably the most workmanlike male in
the organisation. He has no irritating mannerisms
or slipshod habits, and always provides a good,
clean-cut performance. He can also play a second-
ary part perfectly, without dimming the radiance
of the major constellations—and that is a rare
talent. In my opinion Wayda' is, after Melba, the
best equipped performer on the female side of the
co., with youth, good looks, a voice of gold, and
true dramatic fire. She is one of the musical hopes
of the white race ; and if she does not rise to Ilima-
layan heights, it will be for reasons apart from Art
—such, for instance, as inadequate press apprecia-
tion.
“Theorbo”: Angelini and Sacerdote, Melba’s con-
ductors, set me thinking of baton-wielders of the
past in Australia. I cannot rake up any farther
back than Lavenu, but, of course, there was a good
one even with Mrs. Clarke’s opera co., which in-
cluded the Howsons, the Carandinis, and Nellie
Stewart’s mama, who was then Miss Stirling. Lyster
brought conductor Reiff, but afterwards employed
Siede, Simonsen, Allen, etc. Norman was also
known as a good conductor. With the Cagli and
Pompei co. there came the enthusiastic Marzorati,
succeeded by Zelman, the Arabic student. Soldene
brought Van Ghele. Hazon was about the most
shining man up to this Melba turn. (Beg pardon,
there’s Marshall Hall.) Cowan and Coward, great
men, did not get a chance at opera. We have had
Horsley, too —a kind of genius, and the most eminent
musical composer to visit Australia up to this date
except Wallace.
“S.S.”: In the London production of “‘Jekyll and
Hyde,” Mrs. Leppery—played rather well in Mel-
bourne by Miss Maud Plunkett, a graduate from the
little amateur theatre of Adelaide —was a much more
important part than it is permitted to be in Aus-
tralia. It has been here whittled away to next-to-
nothing, for no obvious reason except that a telling
bit of slum character provoked continuous laughter
when “H. 8.” was endeavoring to horrify his aud-
iences with the unearthly iniquities of Hyde. Little
accidents like this provoke the libel that H.B. has
his knife into any part that interferes in any way
with the splendor of the whole—H.B. being con-
sidered the whole within the meaning of this Act
SQUARE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I take Amelia to the play;
We sit together in the stalls;
And little else she has to say
From first scene till the curtain falls
But gush, in pensive tones and low,
Of some cheap actor in the show.
It’s “See that man —the tall one there!
I think he’s handsome, Tom, don’t you ?
I dote on that soft, greying hair;
And he makes love so nicely too.
How kind his voice; his eyes, how clear!
Now, candidly, ain’t he a dear?”
I say no word ; I do not curse.
Should I a jealous anger show
Perchance ’twould only make her worse.
My consolation is to know
The dancing girl, so golden fair,
Has got my roses in her hair.
VICTORIA.
S.S.


The Handy Week-End Kit Bag.
AUSTRALIAN-
MADE ——
161-
HAVE you ever used one of these Kit Bags when
on a week-end trip? They are one of the most
convenient Bags to take, not too large or
clumsv, with just room enough to hold all you want
comfortably. Thev are so strong, too—made of good
Australian Cowhide in a quiet Brown shade, on
strong steel frame, with side lock and end clips.
These are made in our own specially equipped Fac-
tory, and may be had in the hand-shape; square
opening, as illustrated —18in. long 10/
Made of selected Cowhide —18in. long 20/«
With superior Lambskin lining—l Bin. 10ng.... 25/-
Mso to be had with straps right round—2oin.
long 21 /'
Better quality—2oin. long 26/6
Very superior quality —20in. long 32/6
assn
CARRIAGE PAID TO ANY PART OF AUSTRALASIA.
DAVID JONES LTD.,
Opp. G.P.O.,
SYDNEY.
iftiJS
t , .. * ■■■■.'
HHHH
fiugelmann’s
Pure Herbal
Skin Soap.
“Beauty's Aid.”
Free ample sent on Receipt of
Twopenny Stamp.
Kugelmann’s Pure Herbal Skin Soap i
tained at all Chemists, Drapers and
throughout Australasia, at 2/6 per box of three
tablets. If not obtainable locally, send PostaDNo
or Stamps of any State, to the value of 3/- (inciu
ing postage), when box will be posted per
mail.
Sole Proprietors:
H. E. KUGELHANN & CO.,
Wholesale Druggists and Manufacturers,
14-16 Queen Street, MELBOURNE; Ptt Street,
SYDNEY; and at ADELAIDE and BRISBAY
vbmnbvmn
HIS HORRIBLE PAST.
HE: "Darling, I love you better than life."
SHE : “ But just look at the life you've led!"
What might be turned into an ingenious
scheme for blasting holes in the N.S.W.
Early Closing Act was sat upon gently by a
Sydney S.M. the other day. It was a “hoop-
la” man who had to answer the charge, and
he said his show wasn’t a shop. You paid a
penny for a hoop ; if you managed to shy it
so that it dropped over an article, the goods
were yours; if you missed, you got nothing.
Costs put up a fight; but the Law said,
* “H’m,” or words to that effect, and added
“Fined 55.” by way of a hint.
The glad news comes from Yassberra that
a little work is being done on the Federal
capital, and that the water supply works on
the Cotter will soon commence. And then
one’s thoughts naturally drift back to tnat
frank description of the Cotter given by the
Sydney Telegraph’s fishing expert
(2G/11/T0) and published, . presumably,
when the editor wasn’t looking:
The Cotter rises in the ranges not very far from
Brindabella It is a sluggish stream, and, for the
most part, little more than a chain of waterholes,
with a small run between.
It is a beautiful place on which to plant the
only city in the world which will rank as
the capital of a whole continent -the
world’s boss city that ought to be. And
’right alongside on the east is the meteoro-
logical station of Queanbeyan with its aver-
age rainfal of 22in. in 1907, by the way it
was down to 18in., which was an inch less
than the record for Brewarrina out on the
Darling. And that same year Yass, which
is also alongside the capital on the west,
had 15in. of rain, practically the same as
Bourke, also on the Darling. There is a
long dry patch in the very heart ot the
N.S.W. coastal district, and the mean folk
who wanted a mean little capital, _ so that it
wouldn’t overshadow the State cities, care-
fully planted the metropolis of Australia
right in the middle of it.
By The Bulletin’s tame cleric: —
Who will succeed the failing Pope? The big
batch of Cardinals created the other day may be
wined out of the running offhand; also such aged
prelates as Stefano (83), Capeeelatro (87), and
Pietro (83). Rampolla, the “strong man ot the
Vatican, and a born politician, would have been
Pope in place of Pius, but for the interference of
Austria. As it was he ran second. He was Leo s
Secretary ol*State. Gotti seemed his most formidable
rival; in fact he would have been elected but tor
the opposition of the Rampolla following. He is 77
now, however, and sickly. The present Pope s sue-
cesor at Venice, Cardinal Cavallari ( aetat . 63), has
a likely chance, having been picked by the Pontiff
as his Elisha after Elijah, so to speak. Were he not
a Spaniard, Cardinal Merry Del Val, aged only 46,
would be prime favorite. He has been Pope Pius s
efficient Secretary of State all along. Del Val was
educated in England. The Pope must be Italian, ac-
cording to the practice settled for centuries, to avoid
the jealousies of other nations. The chances of the
splendid-looking brothers —Vincenzo (75) and Van-
nutelli (77) —are not seriously considered. Van-
nutelli was Papal Legate at the recent Eucharistic
Congress in London and Montreal. He was selected
chiefly for liis social gifts and his unrivalled beauty
of person. He is a Saul who towers above the crowd.
Cardinal Agliardi (79) may also be counted out as
one of the ruck last time. Cassetta and Noto (both
70) are to be reckoned with, and other starters for
the event are: Ferrari (61), Archbishop of
Milan; Ferrata (64); Frisco, Archbishop of
Naples (75) ; Sanmiatelli (71); Bontife (65) ;
and particularly Respighi, the Vicar-General (68).
Then there are Richelmy (61) ; Martinelli (63) ;
Gennari (72); Boschi (73); Bacilien, Arch :
bishop of Verona (69) ; Cavicchioni (75) ; Rmaldim
(67) ; Lorenzelli (55) ; Mafia, Archbishop of Pisa
(53) ; Lualdi, Archbishop of Palermo (53) ;
and Gaspari (59). The rest are on the lower
grade of Cardinal Deacons, and will hardly be men-
tioned even among those who “also ran.” Richelmy,
who voted- last time, gains by being older. Maffi,
who announced the last election to the populace,
also holds a fair position.
* * * *
“Henry Horsecollar”: Perhaps when the
homing coaster has thrown its bones ashore
10 or 25 more times, there will be a strict
inouiry into the working-
hours of those who bang
around on the face of the
great waters. The coaster
isn’t a wildly overmanned
craft. It is always
struggling into some
small port or struggling
out. The men don’t go
off duty in the ordinary
acceptation of the term.
When they rest from
navigating the ship they
generally start to shove
cargo about, and when
they leave off work they
begin to carry bricks.
Some one recently re-
marked about the amaz-
ing way the coaster has
of committing suicide
just under lig h t-
houses and such like. Let
any utterly-tired man,
whether at the helm or
anywhere else, try the
experiment of gazing at
a bright light, _ and see
how long it will be be-
fore he drops into a semi-
hypnotic sleep. I believe
the ancient Israelites,
when dead weary with
building pyramids all day, used to fall
asleep as soon as they saw the light of
Pharaoh’s countenance.
* * * *
One Edward Caldwell, of Paddington,
Sydney, is a maker of brawn, and the way
he made it was recently mentioned in court.
The floor of the brawn premises was cov-
ered with ancient and modern grease, cob-
webs festooned the corners and the ceiling,
and no precautions were taken to prevent
dust and flies contaminating the pounded
meat. Even the bench on which the meat
was cut up was described as insanitary. And
when this array of facts was placed before
him, Payten, S.M., arose in wrath and smote
Caldwell with £5 or one month. A magis-
trate who is capable of passing such an in-
adequate sentence deserves to eat the defend-
ant’s brawn —all of it.
From the Chief Deck Hand in the Moun-
tain Fisheries Department:—
There was a violent earthquake shock in our Seal-
ing-wax Branch the other morning, when our chief, a
man of much consequence, reached this item in the
official correspondence: “People round here sav if I
wait a long while, I’ll get the deed ; but that’s no
blankv good to me. For ’s sake, shake a leg.”
The leg was shaken. Another wrote —but fortunately
it didn’t strike the office on the same day:
“I can't pay the rent this year, as every
blasted tiling’s gone wrong. My wife ran away with
old , and I wish him luck ; all my horses
have got something wrong with them, and I got
drunk one Saturday night and lost my oats money.
So you’ll have to wait.” We are still waiting.
WASN'T GOING TO EAT IT.
POLICEMAN: "Keep off the grass, can't yer?"
SARCASTIC STRANGER: “It's all right, Ser-
geant, I ain't a vegetarian."
From C. 11. Souter, who makes verse and
mends bodies: —
“Jabez” (B. 2/11/’ll) may be a medical man, like
the writer. He may personally know one, or two, or
several medical men who illegally procure abortions.
Or, on the other hand, he may be a lay person, who
has acquired his pretended knowledge in another
manner. If neither of these surmises be correct, he
is simply a lay person who is -talking at random.
This appears the more likely, on account of his say-
ing that “Countless doctors do the same thing, with
the same fatal result, every year. . . . Not one in
1000 is ever convicted of anything.” I don’t know
how many “countless” is. But the statement is ob-
viously nonsense. It is simply asserting, in other
words, that the majority of doctors break the oath
they have taken that they will abide strictly by the
law of the land in the practice of their profession.
I have talked of this matter with a great number of
my medical friends, and I know that there are very
few that would do the operation for other than good
medical reasons, even if it were not against the law.
Personally, I know none that would break the law
in this respect. I know of one or two; but they are
shunned by the vast majority of their confreres.
Those who want such things done know this very
well; but the respectable public may be misled by
“Jabez’s” wild and unjust accusation.
When Queen Mary appears at the Dur-
bar she must feel like the man with the
stolen umbrella under the stony gaze of
the rightful owner. For that pantomime she
is going to wear the Ivohinoor. This bit
of carbon was found in the mines of Gol-
conda in 1550, and ultimately passed to
Dhuleep Singh, the last ruler of the Pun-
jab. When Bull collared the province
in 1849, the Mountain of Light was “sur-
rendered” to the Queen. It weighed 800
carats originally, but through unskilful cut-
ting it was reduced to 2i9 carats. The um-
brella that Bull looted is valued at two
million sterling.
* * * *
Although Victoria has ordered 40 new
locomotives from foreign parts and has 40
building at the Newport workshops, the
strain on the present stock is so great that
when the new ones are ready the de-
partment will be little better off. Over 100
of the engines now running are in such a
state of disrepair that they must be taken;
in hand as soon as they can be spared—it
they don’t utterly wreck themselves first.
While the department has been building the
new locos., over a score have been standing
for six months in the Newport shops in a
semi-dismantled state awaiting renovation.
Three of those that were patcned up and sent
out in a presumedly roadworthy condition
were back in the shops inside a month. All
over the lines are grey-headed, toothless
engines which have long completed then-
mileage life, but are still kept maundering
along. They cannot pull their normal
loads without strain; they lose time etern-
ally. break down frequently, and wreck the
nerves of drivers and firemen. AH this is
the aftermath of the regime of Tait, the
imported genius who “made the railways
pay”—and then left just when the State
was due to find out how the thing was done.
On the back of the new Australian notes
are pictures of industrial life. The £1 note
bears an engraving of miners toiling with
a rock drill. On the back of the £2O note
is a picture of timber-getters among the big
trees. There are views of river steamers at
work, and drovers on the job: —
The notion is a clever one,
This seeking money’s aid,
To show the men who have the mon.
Just how the mon. is made.
VICTORIA.
SNELL.
“Tally”: Now that the fool
strike of the Sydney wharfies
is over, or just starting again,
or something, I’d like to ex-
plain what an ass the fool
shipping clerk is on such oc-
casions. As soon as the re-
cent trouble commenced the
cos. drove the clerks to the
wharves and told them to get
work at the rate of Is. Gd. an
hour in addition to their usual
“salaries.” Do not imagine
for a moment that anybody
was appointed to do their
usual work. They did it
themselves in their spare time
or any time. As a body, the
shipping clerks are the most
poorly paid of the underpaid
clerical community; and it’s
no uncommon thing for them
to work a whole night through
in order that a boat arriving
in a hurry may be cleared in
a rush. Holidays, Saturday
afternoons and Sundays, they
all look alike to the boss as
far as the clerk is concerned,
and overtime is never paid.
The shipping clerk is the good
old, unorganised drudge who
can be relied upon to help in
the hour of need. And. with
lavender hose where the bow-
yangs usually are, he turns to
every time.
“Maranoa” : In giving evidence in a Syd-
ney assault case, the senior-constable stated
that two policemen brought the accused to
the station, and he noticed that accused’s
clothes were stained with blood, which, in
his opinion, was policemen’s blood. Can you
tell me just where the difference is between
policemen’s blood and that of ordinary
bleeders? Is it redder —or thicker? Arc
there any bones in it? Does it ooze gently
into dark alleyways instead of spreading it-
self on the footpath, to the danger of passing
peds? If you can’t tell me, then, in the in-
terests of science, I’m going to follow a John
Hop into a quiet lane and slay him. and
thereby solve the interesting problem.
There’s a policeman who sleeps down our
way; I hope he hasn’t a large family.
THE HUMAN RACES.
ABRAMS: “Ely tear Himmelstein, dake it Lout
me, der vor only two races —der chosen
and der squozen .”
YASS-C'ANBERRA ON SEA!—OR THE GOOD
SHIP COW.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. Kelly (N.S.W.) thought every effort should
be made to hurry on with the building of the Naval
College. The whole trouble seemed to be jealousy
between Sydney and Melbourne.
The Minister for Home Affairs: Captain Chambers
says it is the best site he has ever seen.
‘Mr. Fairbairn (Vic.) thought that the college
should be in the Federal capital. It should be re-
moved as far as possible from a big city.
—Parliamentary proceedings
Yeo-ho there! Yeo-ho!
Shake the tops’ls out free!
We are bound for a blow —
On the dark, green-blue sea!
Oh, it’s bully boys all!
And it’s head her away!
Steady, lads! Mains’l haul!
Now for Canberra Bay !
Cap’n Fairbairn’s on deck !
Willie Kelly’s the mate!
And our barque’s but a speck
On the heaving Ma State!
Man the braces! Smart now !
But by James! how it blows!
What ship’s that f”.. .It’s The Cow!”...
Give three hearty Yeo-IIo’s!
Luff, you lubbers ! Luff! Luff ! !
Oh, by Captain Cook’s socks,
If the halyards ain’t tough,
We shall go on the rocks!
Hark! upon the lee-bow,
Where the angry surf frets—
“ What ship’s that?” “It’s The Cow,
With the naval cadets! ”
Oh, a tar’s life for us,
With the breeze and the brine!
For we don’t care a cuss
If it’s storm, or it’s shine —
There’s the School! Give a hail—
“ All hands lower away!”
Won’t you come for a sail
On Yass-Canberra Bay?
llow it blows!...
All snug aloft, Mr. Kelly?
Aye, aye, Sir !...
Then all hands splice the mainbrace t. .
Give three hearty Yeo-IIo’s!
ar.s.w.
CLARENCE O’HAGAN.


I
U
0
For all
r domestic uses.
Half the toil of
household work is
done away with
when Sunlight
Soap enters j
the home.
NO. 67. GUARANTEED UNDER THE
PURE FOOD ACT, 1908,"
BY LEVER BROTHERS LIMITED.
SYDNEY, N.B.W. No. 67.
OCCASIONAL CONSTIPATION is a fertile source
of many of the minor ills that flesh is heir to. The
best way of restoring a state of healthy activity to
stomach and bowels is bv taking a wineglassful of
“HUNYADI JANOS” natural aperient water every
alternate day before breakfast.*
Wild s Hairdressing Rooms, 30 Upstairs,
Sydney Arcade, George and King Streets, Sydney, is
the proper place to go if you want the best of atten-
tion. Electric head and face massage done in the
latest American style. Hours of business: 8.30 to
6.30 ; Saturday close at 1 o’clock.*
3
••
*
'
This CREPE SHIRT ci£
at Peapes 8 Co. =4=
W E introduced Crepe as a shirt material years ago. Its
popularity and suitability for summer wear can be
gauged by its increasing use for warm weather wear.
Crepe only becomes softer with repeated washings, and gives
astonishing long wear.
Its moderate price is an advantage, and the cutting and
making being done in our Shirt workrooms, ensures to the
wearer the last degree of comfort and smartness. Into our pre-
sent Crepe Shirts we have placed the sloping shoulders, that
give a neater fit; and the body is cut full, but without having
too much material.
Two styles—one with Soft Collar and Gauntlet Cuffs, or with
stiff neckband for starched collars and stiff cuffs.
A Really Superior Shirt in New Designs.
Price 5/6. Postage 6d. extra, or l/-for 3 Shirts.
Give size of starched collar worn when ordering .
Peapes & Co. Ltd. ) Outfitters,
309-311 George Street, SYDNEY.
The Oldest Inhabitant has a lovely time-
four ancient pubs so close together that a
table-cloth would cover the lot:—
Another old Sydney land-mark, in Lower George-
street, is following many others in the same neigh-
borhood. This is a substantial stone house, built
over 70 years ago. It was occupied in the early ’4o’s
by J. S. Hanson, who had just retired from the Rum
Puncheon public house, where shellbacks and water-
side workers knew him as “Cocky.” A right-of-
way, adjoining Mr. Hanson’s, led to Dawson’s iron
foundry. Across the right-of-way stood the Blue
Posts, and a pub is there still —the Blue Anchor.
Opposite Mr. Hanson’s, on the other side of George-
street, was the Brown Bear, on the corner of Brown
Bear-lane, wiped out in recent city improvements.
When Mr. Hanson gave up. possession, the house be-
came the Prince of Wales Hotel, and the Blue Posts
passed into the Dublin Tavern, while the Brown
Bear became the American Hotel. As there was a
pub on the other corner, known as the Rose of Aus-
tralia, a group of four could be covered with a de-
cent-sized tablecloth. Later on, in the early ’7o’s, the
old Prince of Wales became the habitation of
Chinese cabinetmakers, the pub on the corner re-
sumed its old name of the Blue Posts, and “Cocky”
Hanson’s house once more became a pubbery, under
the style of the Golden Age. In 1888 it became the
Ropemakers’ Arms, reminding old hands of the gaol
which used to stand on the opposite side of George-
street. Anon, it became the North Queensland. In
the ’3o’s there was a wharf right lip against the
Rum Puncheon. That groggery, by the way, was
built originally as a storehouse by Isaac Nichols,
Australia’s first postmaster, who was a merchant
prince of his time. It and other premises were de-
molished to give the trams a clear run to Circular
Quay; but it had lost the old name many years
previously.
APPROBATION.
RALPH : “ Blitherer, ain't she?”
FERDINAND : “Real snifter!”
During 1910 there were 710 punishments
imposed upon officers of the Commonwealth
Public Service, as compared with 632 in the
previous year. The bulk of them were ser-
ved out in the Postmaster-General’s depart-
ment, and N.S.W. had the lion’s share as
well as the elephant’s. Out of a total of 3(0
fines of 10s. and under, the postal depart-
ment in the Ma State collected 259, Queens-
land coming next with 46, and Victoria third
with 28. Again, in fines over 10s. but not
exceeding 205., Ma was lined up in the same
department 64 times out of a total of 105;
Queensland was next with 11, Victoria and
W.A. a dead heat at eight. Also, of the 41
fines ranging between £1 and £2, Ma got it
in her postal neck on 22 occasions, Victoria
and Queensland following her with six wal-
lops each. On the £5 mark, however, Ma’s
old reliable could only scramble in second to
Queensland; but coming to £5 and under
£lO, she pulled up again with six out of
eight. Finally, she lobbed home a winner
in the dismissal stakes, with 18 (all postal)
to Victoria’s 12, Queensland and South Aus.
filling third place with 11 each. There were
no punishments of any kind in the depart-
ments of External Affairs, Attorney-General
or Defence.
* * * *
Ten minutes at the G.P.O.: —
Though the State Fright insect buzzes about “the
mess the Commonwealth has made of the post office,”
and especially of the telephones, an amazing number
of people continue to beg to be annoyed by becoming-
telephone subscribers. Under the perfect management
of the Ma State there were, at the end of 1901, 10
subscribers per 1000 inhabitants. At the end of 1910
there were 22. And for the old Commonwealth the
rush to be annoyed has been even greater. In 1901
there were only 85 subscribers per 10,000 people.
Now there are 198.
Also, telegrams take so long in crawling over the
Commonwealth-cursed lines that people naturally
send twice as_ many of them as they used to, just to
enrage the operators. In 1901 there were 1,433,460
inter-State messages; last year there were 2,804,240.
It is just the same with postal matter. The public
posts just twice as many articles as it did 10 years
ago; the Commonwealth will be certain to lose
them, and the public wants to give the muddler the
trouble of a search. Occasionally, no doubt, the
missing document or parcel is found in the P.M.G.’s
hat. Still, last year it was noticed that 48 of the
articles reported missing had never bern posted; one
was discovered by the intending sender in the lining
of his coat; one was given to an employee to post,
but he went to a wedding and forgot it; 26 were
met with at the Dead Letter Office without ad-
dresses ; and 86 were wrongly addressed. One valu-
able parcel of jewellery threatened to cause an earth-
quake. Somebody, of course, had stolen the goods,,
because the packet had arrived empty. Then, just
when the earthquake was getting nicely under weigh,
somebody learned that the customer had picked!
up an empty box from the jeweller’s counter insteadl
of the one with the goods inside it, and had posted!
the vacant cardboard. About 10,000 articles drifted!
into the Dead Letter Office during the year. Many of
them had money or valuables in them —£5500 alto-
gether—and most of them had reached the morgue
because the sender hadn’t worried about a small
thing like a correct address. If 11. Brown sends:
money bv post, any fool of a post office ought to
know that he means it to go to Barnabas Jones, 296
Blanc Mange-street, Surry Hills. Last year, 1408:
articles were posted actually without any address at
all, and the non-delivery of this large mass of corres-
pondence proves how utterly incompetent the Com-
monwealth is to handle a business proposition.
The American “Holy Ghosters”'
and their Admiral, Rev. Frank
Sandford, who have been cruising:
all over the globe in the barque
Coronet in search of the Pro-
mised Land, and looked in on
Australia on the off-chance of this,
continent being It, are supposed:
to have gone down, with their
craft, in a recent storm in mid-
Atlantic. Since the Coronet
turned away sadly from Australia
it has been living on the charity
of other vessels, and kept the sig-
nal, “We are starving,” perpetu-
ally flying at the masthead. Kind-
ly captains, seeing it, would bear
down and send to the hungry
Holy Ghosters supplies of bread,
bacon, corned beef, potatoes and
other eatables; and thus, in less,
than three months, no less than 20’
vessels reported having provi-
sioned the Coronet. Now, if the
latest accounts are true, the
weird menagerie dines on fish
with David Jones.
According to the law and the prophets on
the Sydney Police Court bench, it is twice
as expensive to steal a few old clo’ as it is
to brutally assault an inoffensive inhabi-
tant. On November 7, at the Central
Police Court, a creature, or object, named
Walsh was found guilty of insulting a stran-
ger (a woman) in Hyde Park, felling her
with a blow on the face, and “putting the
boot in” as she lay on the ground. The
magistrate almost choked with indignation
and tore off three whole months’ gaol for
the pushite who did the evil deed. About:
the same time, on the same day, in the
same city, in the same fool jurisdiction, one
Mitchell \yas found guilty of stealing £4
worth of wearing apparel from a Sydney
doctor, and the Court handed him six
months’ hard' yakker, quite in the ordinary
way of business, and without any indigna-
tion at all. .Probably, the average magis-
trate regards himself as a chivalrous gentle-
man, with a lofty regard for a woman’s
honor and a woman’s safety. So he is in
theory; but in practice he values a woman,
no matter how respectable, at half the price
of an old coat —sometimes at much less
than that.
* * < * *
Unless the Victorian hospital patient has
developed into a sort of egg-vampire, some
of the shelly avalanche now pouring into
the wards from suburban fowl runs must
be banking up in cool stores somewhere.
There is no bomb so destructive as a pre-
served egg which has not been frozen hard
enough to forget the flight of Time. Some
months am. Government inspectors in New
York seized and overpowered a quantity of
frozen eggs and sent them to the analyst,
who reported, after a deafening investiga-
tion, that they went on the average 8.400.000
germs to the teaspoonful! You don’t want
to crowd too many high explosives of that
sort into people who are too ill to resist.
(Of course, the surplus Victorian eggs may
be all right. Still, it is well to remember
how bad an egg can be if it wants to.)
Much cheap sentiment and dreary music
have been poured over the subject of Friend-
ship by song writers. It is even doubtful
whether Mother has suffered So much from
low-grade Art as Friendship has. Luckily,
the police-court reporter’s transcriptions of
real life are always handy for the sufferer
from pathetic ballads. Last week, a Syd-
ney girl, giving evidence for the defence of
the young man who had discharged a revol-
ver in her face, said that they had always
been friendly during their four years’ ac-
quaintanceship—with the exception of one
occasion when she was instrumental in get-
ting him three months for assault.
BE A SPORT.
OLD BIRD : “How did ye get on at the races?”
FLEDGLING : “Oh, I didn't lose any money.”
OLD BIRD : “ Vat's the use o' goin' to the races
if ye don't bet?”
The most polite “funeral director” in the
world was unearthed the other day, at
Newcastle (N.S.W.), where the coal and the
tales of crimping come from. In the local
Herald he advertised that “the remains of
the late Mr. John Donnelly are invited to
attend his funeral this afternoon, at 2.45
o’clock.” It is understood that they went.
The news that the Orient boats are to call
at Toulon, instead of Marseilles, from the
beginning of 1912, shows how a large ship-
ping co. will gladly take up its wharf and
go somewhere else, if it can thereby get
safer moorings or better facilities for hand-
ling cargo and passengers. A few changes
of the same kind would almost certainly be
made if Sydney and Melbourne gave the big
outports half a chance. A scrap of evi-
dence from the enquiry, last February, into
the mysterious accident to the Cufic whilst
passing out of Port Phillip Heads is inter-
esting in this regaTd, The captain of the
damaged steamer was asked: “Is it a fact
that your company has some trepidation in
relation to this port?” And the mariner
insulted the only active seaport in Victoria
by replying, “Ye 6; T always feel most uncom-
fortable in passing through these Heads.”
Bathurst (N.S.W.) is joyously asking the
earth to take note of the fact that all the
leading public positions it has to offer are
filled by natives of the district. The
IU.JU.A. (John Miller), the Mayor, the presi-
dents of the District Hospital, the Turf
Club, the Vampire League, and the A., H.
and P. League, the chairman of the Pas-
tures Protection Board and the presidents
of various shire councils —all are Bathurst
natives; and the city proudly claims that it
is the only place in the Commonwealth with
such a record. What it apparently all
means is that Bathurst is so squeezed by
big patriarchal landlords that it hasn’t at-
tracted any outsiders worth mentioning for
years and years. # w
“J.M.D.”: Lord Dudley may be right in
his forecast re Australians not rushing the
Australian navy, I dunno. If the
Conditions there are anything like
those in the local merchant ser-
vice, the sheering-off of the locals
will be an indication of their sense.
The majority of our coastal ships
give their crews neither tables to
eat their food on, nor
baths to wash in, nor
deck space for the
purpose of absorbing
fresh air. The cooks
on these vessels sleep,
eat, and recreate
themselves under con-
ditions that would re-
volt the average tripe-
hound. One of the
newest ships in the
coastal trade arrived
here with a properly-
appointed mess-room
for the cooks (she car-
ries 17 in the kitchen
department), but the
feeding chamber was
promptly transformed
into a multi-bunked
sleeping apartment.
If the cook wants a
wash he mostly has to
use a pail on deck, or
the sink. If a sailor
is married, he cannot
go ashore until five
or six o’clock at
night, and he has to
be at work before
six o’clock next morn-
ing. These are little
trifles that would
choke a man off the
sea, as a profession.
even if tlie pay were extravagant, which, so
far as my experience goes, it never is.
The allegation of the military expert of
London Times that the German army
has “trained itself stale” and become petri-
fied and steeped in formalism, and is by no
means so dangerous as it looks; is nothing
new. The German who wrote “Jena or
Sedan” laid the same charge years ago.
Anyhow, the Prussian army is addicted to
remarkable ups and downs, and strange re-
versals of form. It either licks its enemies
wonderfully, or gets copiously spanked it-
self. There is no happy medium about it.
Under Frederick the Great it was the most
wonderful fighting machine in the world.
Twenty years after his death it made a
worse show than did the Spanish guerillas.
In another nine years it again ranked
among the very best of the world’s armies.
Then, in the 50’s of last century, it had
become so decayed and hair-powdered and
pig-tailed, that Prussia was scoffed at by
old unwieldy Austria, and didn’t dare to
scoff back. From ’64 to ’7l the Prussian
soldiery proved itself once more the best
fighting force in Europe, if not in the world.
At Pekin, recently, and against the African
Herreros, it did rottenly. The Herreros,
like the misguided savages they were, re-
fused to come out and be exterminated, but,
instead, lurked in ambush and plugged the
Teuton soldiery to their (the Herreros’)
hearts’ delight. In the Pekin procession the
Germans brought up the rear, and were ad-
mittedly the slowest and worst-equinned of
all the troops paraded. Now, it would be
interesting to know exactly how good or
bad the German army is.
From the cabin steward on Tom Ugly’s
punt:—
The Falkland Islands will soon be able to pass a
hail and a “How d’ do” to the world via South
America. Owners whose ships make passage round
the Horn have been hankering for the wireless spark;
underwriters have been asking for it to save them-
selves worry and a heap of guessing ; officers and crews
will sound the loud timbrel over its arrival. Many a
time it will be excuse and reason enbugh for a call
at the Falklands, and a break in the dreadful monot-
ony of the Horn trip, to say nothing of a chance of
a feed of fresh meat and vegetables. And a man
has to undergo a long spell of salt horse and ship’s
bread to fully appreciate just how much that means.
THE BURIED CASE OF WOOD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The case of Mr. Wood, who has not put in an ap-
pearance at Parliament House since his suspension
on October 18, was again referred to in the Legisla-
tive Assembly last night, notice being given by Mr.
Wade of his intention to move on Tuesday next that
the resolution of October 18, suspending Mr. Wood
until he apologised, be rescinded. —Sydney Tele-
graph.
They’re digging up the case of Wood ;
The mud is being lifted;
No one could throw it as he could
Ere he was seized and shifted.
They’re digging up his awful ease;
They want to break his silence;
They yearn to see his angry face,
And watch once more his vi’lenee.
So they are digging up his case,
And all the facts exhuming,
While in his dark and narrow place
The buried one is fuming.
He hears the shovels overhead.
Yes! they are getting near him!
He lies as voiceless as the dead.
The Speaker cannot hear him.
N.S.W.
A WEEPING CONSTITUENT.
THE SHIFTY CITY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I like Sydney very well, but Melbourne is not a
city to blow about —A globe-trotter in London Des-
patch.
What time was it this traveller came
To Melbourne, and beheld its straight,
Wide streets, its monuments of fame,
And all its buildings fine, that shame
Those Old World towns of ancient date;
And still insists, with candor stout,
It is no town to blow about?
Ah, will the man not come again,
When Summer’s dust is everywhere;
When north winds at the brickwork strain,
And tear the pitchers frem the drain,
And carry acres in the air!
Then he’d agree, without a doubt,
It is a town to blow about!
VICTORIA.
B.


A* the recult of an accident at polo,
his Excellency the Governor-General
has sustained a dislocation of the outer
and of his left collarbone, with injury
to the shoulder. It is probable that the
use of the left arm will be impaired for
a considerable length of time
' l<
u)»sn ' r r'yfJn^ arm - <
yo\> couldn't" na'Jtf ,
COurjVyk ]
business wJOw'd 'laviE
been a
Evidently the Metropolitan Qaa Com-
pany. having chloroiormed the City
Council and the Municipal Conlerence
Into Inactivity on the question ol buy-
ing out the gas interest, has now
muzzled the Hurray-Watt Government
AunT* -Vnc V\l N.P.t | : Houj did
yoo -jpUl in -Mie pa p<zr . E-fl-ief ?"
E~tV7g' ( ujV?o Hetsn'-T* recoOerecA ■yforw
Cop voeeK •. 1 backed
JonCS U31«7 ,
Smith &
-for
(C places’
We are Just to put against each name
the number which we think Indicates
the place It ought to occupy In the final
count of votes. Suppose, for instance,
there are three men standing In your
electorate. We will call them Smith.
Brown and Jones. Very well, then,
against the name of Jones you will
write the number I, to indicate that
you hope he will come out top of the
poll. But your work is not done. You
have to say as well what you consider
should be the relative places of Smith
and Brown. You think, we will sup-
pose, that Smith is a better man than
Brown. Then you must give Smith the
second place, and write the figure 2
against his name. Against the name of
Brown, who comes third In your esti-
mation, you will put the figure 3. If
there should happen to be a fourth or
fifth man standing, you would have to
number them in the order In which you
prefer them up to 4 and 3.—Argus
ikg Ace. : "Rw
-ifee loxfe
k Wea\)&7 1 Keep
" f i
l"ts onlps \&r a
l
for7^e*~."
VICTORIAN ELECTIONS AND SUNDRIES.


Squatter Sheep Branding Oil
SCOURS OUT OF THE WOOL.'
Does not contain Pitch, Tar or other injurious ingredients.
LEWIS & WHITTY, Melbourne and Sydney. [4
McKENZIE’S EXCELSIOR BAKING POWDER.
20 Per Cent. Discount
Is taken off by us from the best
English manufacturers’ WHOLE-
SALE catalogue prices for Spoons
and Forks.
HOW can it pay? we are often
asked. Well, it only gives us a
broker’s commission of profit, but
the enormous output pays us, espec-
ially as Spoons and Forks are easily
handled, and make no bad stock.
We only sell the best possible
Spoons and Forks, and they are all
extra heavily plated on white, hard
nickel silver. They will wear like
silver for 25 years ; indeed, we have
seen them after 40 years’ wear
worn at the prongs, but otherwise
like new.
Fairfax 8 Roberts, Ltd.,
23 & 25 Hunter Street.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney.
jb
Revolving Soup Tureens, Best Electroplate
9 i " C T h 10 0
Less 20% 12 0
Nett
..£4BO
ABORIGIN
ALITIES
‘9-3-11”: Re the drought that is surely
coming (B. 26/10/’ll). Not one Australian farmer
in 20 makes the slightest preparation to meet the
enemy who: they all know is likely to hit them at
any time. This ought to be a matter for the Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals. Every
time a drought has struck Australia, thousands of
cattle and sheep have died of starvation. Not only
is this a bad advertisement for the country; it is
also abominable cruelty. On the coastal districts of
N. S. Wales, hungry landholders buy thousands of
head of cattle when they are cheap, and, admittedly,
“chance it.” If they have an exceptionally good
winter, most of the cattle will pull through, and
they can be sold at an enormous profit. But if a
bad winter should happen—and it happens pretty
often—-most of the cattle starve. The awful suffer-
ing which that entails passes unnoticed, though often
a city lorry-driver is fined for flogging a horse.
From this, I conclude that the offence isn’t really
cruelty to the dumb animal; it is rather a disregard
for the fine feelings of the suburbanite who sees
the one outrage and doesn’t see the other. While
the humane societies are on the warpath, they should
also have a look at some of the horses which haul
cane on the northern rivers. Any time one likes to
happen along, one can see patches of raw flesh as big
as the Liberal party’s nark on Speaker Willis.
MISUNDEKSTOOD.
THE COURT (after a
hard, long, wet night):
“ Oh, dash it all , how
d'you plead?"
COMBO : " Me feel plurry
bad , too. Me an ’ you
berrer have a pick-an-
me-up over at Paddy
Nolan’s .”
“Walkabout”: The distance a nigger
smoke signal can be seen depends a lot upon the
class of country and the state of the atmosphere. In
any of the northern parts of Westralia, where there
are stretches of spinifex, and flat country with high
hills on either side, “smokes” can be seen for 50
miles, especially after rain and in the early morn-
ing. Towards noon, when the air is hazy, half that
distance would about pull it up. Have known in-
stances where natives brought news to the police that
such a thing had happened (say) 50 miles out, and
the first white man to arrive from there would verify
the report, but he would be at least a day behind
with his news. To make a good “smoke,” green
spinifex and bush are twisted spiral fashion, with a
hollow in the centre. On being lighted, this sends
up a thin black column. Messages are coded by
putting on extra bushes to make the smoke dense, or
“beating,” to vary the way in which the smoke rises.
Sometimes two or more fires are worked in conjunc-
tion. The way the wind is blowing, unless it is a
gale, has no effect on the signal. The time occupied
in sending a “smoke” to its destination would depend
on the alertness of the man on the lookout; but
where a message has to be carried (say) 100 miles
inside a certain tribal district, and everything is
in readiness, it will reach its destination within a
few minutes of the lighting of the first signal fire.
On some cattle stations the squatters use niggers
and the smoke to communicate with the out-stations
30 miles away, and the information received is very
near the mark in every case.
“Eddyson”: Professor Waters, Temper-
ance Advocate and Moral Reformer, as the written
sign on his somewhat down-at-heel portmanteau an-
nounced, arrived at Gnaroo one hour before noon,
and the boarders at the Grand Hotel (W. Innis,
licensee) got on to him in 15 minutes. They put
gin in the Professor’s water at lunch, and the Pro-
fessor did not resent it. In fact, the Prof, did not
seem to be aware of the presence of an intoxicant,
even when one set of conspirators diverted his at-
tention while another set raised the standard from
75 per cent, water to 75 per cent. gin. The Prof,
was a tall, thin, proud man, with longish hair, a
somewhat seedy suit of black, and a black hat that
looked as if it had grown quite accustomed to being
slept out in. When the boys suggested a drop of
something after dinner, the celebrated temperance
advocate replied that he was no bigot, but a preacher
of the principle of wise restraint. The miscreant
who bore the liquors to the bar parlor, mixed the
Professor’s quite shamelessly. Mr. Waters bore it
with Christian fortitude. Within 2hr. 15min. the
Professor was stone-blind, as a result of over-indul-
gence in stone gin mainly. Then evil-disposed per-
sons took the misguided advocate to a public place,
bedded him down in the open within view of the
populace, scattered empties about him, and dropped
his portmanteau down conspicuously, with its super-
scription uppermost—“ Prof. Waters, Temperance Ad-
vocate and Moral Reformer.” All Gnaroo was called
out, and the township took the joke in an uproarious
spirit; but Prof. Waters recked nothing—lie slept
on. Eventually, Mounted-Constable Evans, from
Quandong, was led up, and the magnificent wheeze
was explained to him in detail. “Yis,” he said,
“dom funny ’tis, on’y Perfesser Waters is a shmall
bit iv a bloke, ’n’ this wan is Tooley the Moocher,
who’s bin lyin’ dthrunk round ivery cintre iv poppv-
lation in the Shtate fer months, part be rayson iv
the grand Australian idea that ut’s the foinest ’n’
most illigant joke on earth t’ make a teetotal ad-
vokit dead t’ the wor-rld wid gratuitous intoxicants.
Boys, whin yiz know az much ez Tooley the Moocher
yiz kin afford t’ be funny.” Then Gnaroo stole
softly indoors.
* # * *
“Montalex” : “Mallarapoonie” rightly says
(B. 19/10/’ 11) that jarrah is the only timber that
defies the attack of what he calls the salt-
water bug, better known as the “ship-worm.”
The thing isn’t a worm, though it looks like one,
and certainly would never be suspected of close re-
lationship to the oyster. It is, nevertheless, a bi-
valve, modified in structure to suit its mode of life.
I have seen a balk of teak so completely permeated
by Teredo navalis —the commonest species—that the
millions of tunnels were separated from one another
by only a paper thickness of wood, and were yet so
perfectly parallel that one bore never trenched upon
another. You can’t beat Nature’s engineers.
“Eddyson” : T. Dobbie was in a bad way.
The doctor from Eggtop had given him up, and it
was generally understood at the Gap that Thomas’s
funeral would be a fixture for the following month.
It was at this crisis that the fundamental goodness
of Willie Sloggit began to show out. Willie had not
been an effusively affectionate neighbor during the
seven years he and the Dobbies had occupied adjoin-
ing blocks, but now he drifted in daily to sit with
the invalid. Willie’s intentions were good, but he
was hardly a suitable companion for a dying man,
being a taciturn, depressed sort of person himself,
and having no noticeable turn for pious exhortation.
However, Sloggit did his best. He sat at Dobbie’s
elbow by the hour, and now and then laboriously
fished up a meteorological truth from the depths of
his being. This had gone on for eight weeks, and
Tom was very low. For five nights Sloggit had given
palpable indications of having something on his
mind. On the Sunday evening preceding Dobbie’s
death, he made a violent effort, and threw it off.
“Yer pretty bad, Tom,” he said. “I am, Willie,”
Dobbie wheezed in reply. “Can’t last much longer,
I reckon.” “No, not much.” “Not more ’n two
days, maybe?” “Not more, Willie.” “Well, I’m as
it were a lone sorter bloke, Tom. Ain’t got no one
o’ me own worth speakin’ of. I’m thinkin’ it’s
jist likely I’ll be wantin’ t’ marry meself one o’
them days, ’n’, seein’ you’re bound t’ go, ’n’ how it
can’t make no pertickler difference to a dead man,
’n’ assumin’ she ain’t bespoke already, I was won-
derin’ if, afore yeh go, veh’d mind puttin’ in a good
word fer me with the Missus.”
FALSE ALARM.
MANAGER PETE : "Overcrowded? Nothing of the kind! Tons of room! I know to a
man how many there are in the house! ”
“Big Mary” : “Boronia” seems to have a
set on the average backblocks toiler, when he asserts
that the said grafter takes his pleasures sadly, be-
cause he does not rush and rave about the Botanic
Gardens, the Art Gallery, the Museum, etc. Or does
he overlook the fact that the average Outback
worker’s training and environment is such that he
naturally revels in the crude rather than the intel-
lectual pleasures ? And, to a large extent, it is the
same in the cities. Even those as blind as “Bo-
ronia” can find thousands of fairly well-educated
toilers who cannot rise to the appreciation and
understanding of anything above and beyond the
red-raw melodrama in musicj literature, pictures,
plays, etc. In the bush, one does get close enough
to Mother Nature to worship “where silence has its
altars,” to bear away “somewhat of the serene con-
tent of trees,” to pick “the herb of solace for each
bitter mood,” to reach to deeper faith and wider
sympathies ; ! but,' of course, one does not want too
much bush; neither does one want too much city.
This defect of taking pleasures sadly and sordidly
is another of the curses of congested cities and
empty open spaces Outback. What is wanted is
equitable distribution of all the good things of life.
We may get that some day—the far-away day when
Fat and the Devil and all their works are destroyed.
* * * *
“Pick” ; On the strength of my assertion
that two Windellama bushmen once stuck up 170
panels of fencing in a day, “diet” (B. 26/10/’ll) at-
tempts to prove by arithmetic that it is impossible.
The fencers, he reckons, would have had to shift 91
cubic yards of earth, carry 7$ tons of timber,' and
spend 30 seconds in adzing each rail to accomplish
the performance. Well, let’s dissect it further. Any
road navvy is expected by a contractor to pick, and
load into drays, from 24 to 30 cubic yards of earth
per day, and some fencers toil just as strenuously as
the average navvy. A fencer doesn’t carry his timber
into position, but simply upends the posts and slides
them into the holes; and at an average of 30 seconds
per rail, the adzeman would get through with his 170
rails comfortably inside an hour and a-half, and would
then have plenty time left to help his mate with
the other departments of the graft. “Cict” may,
therefore, conclude that there are many things about
bush yakker not to be learned from the multiplica-
tion table as taught in Redfern or even Brighton.
“Priscilla Prink” : Who said the Cow was
interfering with the schooling of the children? Ob-
serve the following, written by a small boy up here
in a North Coast (N.S.W.) paper, which offered a
prize for the best essay by children under 16 years,
on compulsory military training. I give you the
tail-piece of the kid’s effort:—
In conclusion, no better instance can be quoted
of how to destroy a system, good in itself, by in-
competent and parsimonious administration than the
picture of the present administration of the Defence
Act of Australia. Here we have a law, which, if
administered with wisdom, would provide, in a
short time, an efficient scheme of defence; but, be-
cause of the cheese-paring and parsimonious pro-
clivities of those entrusted with the administration
of defence matters, we are likely to arrive at a state
of affairs equal to that of France in 1870, with an
apparently large army on paper, but when the test
comes to be found utterly unreliable and inefficient.
Economy cannot exist at the expense of efficiency.
If I was of a suspicious nature, the which I thank
Heaven I am not, I might congratulate Bruce
Smith on winning this competition. Is Bruce Smith
under 16, by the way?
“Eddyson”: Consider the luck of
McCutcheon. Mackey and Beggs went out from
George Town (Tas.) on a prospecting expedition.
They had been out four days without meeting a
man, and on the fifth morning the question of taking
the eastern or western slope of Long Hill was de-
bated for half an hour, and decided by the toss of
a copper. Mackey and Beggs took the eastern slope,
and towards noon came upon a wild, unclad, red-
whiskered man, with a bottle of square-face under
his left arm, doing a sort of Maori polka round a
patch of broken ground. The broken patch indicated
mining operations of a sort, but the gin-filled der-
vish was alone, and his only implement was a
shovel. When interrogated, he polked with renewed
frenzy, and whooped like an Indian. He rotated with
such violence and howled with so much vehemence
that presently he fell exhausted, and proceeded to
refresh himself with more gin. After a few minutes
he began to maunder. Mackey and Beggs listened
to his mangled remarks, and then rushed impetu-
ously for their belongings, and got down to work
with fervor. They dug like demons, emptying a
4x2 shaft. A few feet down they came upon the
timber with which it had been logged up. Beggs
stood astride the shaft, with a hide bucket on a rope,
and hauled while Mackey heaved out logs and loose
reef. The pre-Adamite whirled his gin bottle and
cheered them on, till a revulsion of feeling came,
and then he went for Beggs with a young gum tree.
After a wild fight, that lasted nearly 15 minutes, the
red devil was subdued, and tethered to a log. After
that, Beggs and Mackey resumed mining operations
with what energy was left, and cleaned the shaft
out. Whiskers, in his delirium, had thrown every-
thing down —windlass, stand, barrel, buckets, tools,
and his own clothes —and had piled debris on the
lot. Mr. McCutcheon’s good luck lies in the fact
that Mackey found him collapsed in the small drive
below, so near dead that in all probability another
two minutes would have fixed a fatal termination.
Next day McCutcheon was seeking a new mate—tee-
totaler preferred.
» * * *
“M.V.”: To my mind, the main reason
why the Australian farmer has so far not rushed the
oil tractor is that, until recently, there was no
tractor available as a commercial proposition. The
Yankee tractor —well, it was “Yankee” in every
direction, and the English tractor purely English.
One was not built for rough work, and the other
absorbs most of its h.p. in moving itself along. But
an Australian has perfected a tractor, designed for
Australian conditions, made of Australian materials,
in Australia, by Australians. “What” (B. 19/10/’ll)
talks vaguely of splitting a horse team, one section
ploughing and the other section harrowing. Rats!
Counting two horses to a furrow and one furrow to
the acre, eight horses on a four-furrow plough would
do (say) four acres per day. To split the team
wbuld mean taking off a couple of furrows ! To the
farmer who fallows (and fallowing must be done to
make a crop any sort of a success in most districts)
the tractor is going to be indispensable. It is inde-
pendent of horse-feed, ploughs 13 acres per day at a
cost of 2s. 9d. per acre, fallows with a disc culti-
vator 26 acres per day, at Is. 6d. per acre; will haul
a load of 12 tons on any average road; will cut
chaff, pull the harvester, pump water, drive a bore,
rig, shell corn, saw timber, and furnish power of
any sort anywhere on the farm. I couldn’t give it
a better recommendation than that if I talked for
lhr. 26min.
ELUSIVE TREES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
in ev’rv waning, mining town
The same old tale is told,
Of how Bill Smith, dfc,4i nim ie Brown,
Had struck, when ’neath old Fortune’s frown,
A reef that gleamed with gold.
Of how he marked the range’s trend
And blazed the nearest tree,
And how he swiftly reached Life’s end,
And gave the secret to a friend
As a prized legacy.
Yet now, although the axe has razed,
Near all the trees around,
And men have searched till nearly crazed,
The tree that old prospector blazed
Has not, as yet, been found.
VICTORIA.
FRANK BELLMAN.


PLASMON
THE GREAT NERVE
AND BRAIN FOOD.
PLASMON COCOA, PLASMON CHOCOLATE.
PLASMON BISCUITS. PLASMON OATS,
Send for C. B. Fry’s Book on Training,
Post Free on application, to
Australian Depot: 6& 7 Barrack St., Sydney.
The Royal Hotel,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Most centrally situated Hotel in Sydney.
Best place to lunch and dine in town.
J. W. COCKBAINE, Proprietor.
At the Cup or at Home present day cooking
arrangements leave much to be desired. Paper bag
cooking is apparently dead. Its temporary popular-
ity however showed clearly that housewives were ready
to experiment with anything promising to save time or
trouble or produce superior dishes. There is no
reason why cheaper and quicker cooking arrange-
ments should not arise for the Cup, Camp or Home.
Cooks would welcome them., Phillips Ormonde & Co.,
patent attorneys, 264 Flinders St., Melbourne.*
Caldwell’s Inks.
Wholesale Distributors
in Queensland :
S. HOFFNUNG <fe CO.
Make the Liver
Do its Duty
Nine times in ten when the liver is right
the stomach and bowels are right
CARTER’S LITTLE
LIVER PILLS
gently but firmly com-
pel a lazy liver to
do its duty.
Cure Con-
stipation,
Indiges-
tion,
Sick
Carters
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS.
Headache, and Distress after Eating.
Small Pill, Small Bose, Small Price.
GENUINE must bear Signature
AN EFFECTIVE REMEDY.
Laxo-Tonic Pills are a most effective remedy for
cleansin'’' the blood, thus removing the cause of
pimples, blotches and other blemishes. Price, l(Hd.
and 1/6.*
For a Gonuine
Coolest,
Lightest ,
and
Sweetest
of I n Dwn
Pipes.
CATALOCUE
POST FREE.
vbnbvmn
Anti-
Nicotine.
Calabash Pipe
Send to
BLATTER & CO.,
THE ORIGIMATOxj.
3 ROYAL ARCADE,
MELBOURNE.
“F. 8.”: Has Warrigal been maligned all
these years, or is he beginning to learn the
virtues of thrift and industry? Chief Protector
Howard stated recently that 113 aboriginals in the
Hughenden (Q.) district had £1282, or £ll each, to
their credit; while native girls employed about Bris-
bane averaged £l2 apiece in the Savings Bank. Go
to the myall, thou sluggard !
“Brumby”: The remarks of “Tiaki” (B.
12/10/11) concerning the octopus that grabbed a
Maori by the arm, set me thinking of a question I
intended asking some time ago. Is there any record
of an octopus in Australasian waters taking home a
live human for lunch? I’ve never known of a case
where a devil-fish got its full horse-power on to
anybody, although 1 thought I was going to learn
all about it at Little Coogee (Sydney) one day
when I was emerging from the sea. This solicitor of
the sea put its arms and other limbs round my
ankle, and simultaneously the. fear of death got
round my heart. I waved the limb wildly in the
air, and it (the octopus, not the limb) dropped off
and sank quickly towards the bottom rock fissures.
I was so relieved I nearly ran home without my
clothes. Fishermen say that the attack of the un-
civil animal is easily repulsed if the assaulted party
keeps cool. The best plan is to boldly grab the
central portion of the whirling horror with both
hands, and with a quick movement turn it com-
pletely inside out, as one might do with an india-
rubber tobacco-pouch. If this is impracticable, the
lines of communication between the devil-fish and
its intended meal should be broken by simply tear-
ing them in two, for, after all, the dreaded feelers
are only a tough kind of jelly composition, powerful,
of course, particularly in their suction action, but
fairly easy to wrench asunder. I once turned an
octopus inside out as an experiment, and found it
not a difficult operation. But on that occasion I had
it on the shore; don’t know whether it would have
been so easy if it had had me under water.
“Vagabond” : A mate of mine who thinks
he knows something about birds, has given a rude
jolt to an old belief about our friend the more-pork.
He not only says that the more-pork isn’t the inore-
pork, but that the more-pork is another bird alto-
gether, and that another bird is the more-pork. He
is prepared to take an affidavit that the more-pork
never said so in his life, and couldn’t if he tried,
and that the lengthiest and most intellectual remark he
ever made is a half-hearted “oom-moom-moom.” My
pal went on to say that the feathered gent, who con-
tinually asks for another slice of the pig, is really a
fellow who signs himself the boobook owl, and is
hardly ever seen by the ordinary bushie, who wouldn’t
know him if he did see him. His (my mate’s) argu-
ment is that the ordinary man on the track hears the
boobook ask for “more-pork,” and seeing another
chap apparently openly passing his plate along, he
concludes it was him made the request, while all the
time it was coming from the boobook, carefully
tucked away in hiding. Anyhow, we’ve bet drinks
about it, and we’re anxious to know who pays.
“Billy T.”: Cameron swooned. Cameron
is a large, raw, horse-boned Scot, and does not swoon
habitually. The occasion demanded it. Cameron
is a cocky, but turns the good “saxpence” in any
direction. His wife takes in early summer boarders,
for instance, and semi-invalids come from Melbourne
to Parrot Creek seeking new milk and change of
eggs. Lately they had a Mrs. Johns and child stay-
ing with them as paying guests. On the second
morning, at about nine of the clock, the Johns in-
fant was playing in the yard, when its mamma put
her head out of a window, and cried: “Sissie,
Sissie, do make less noise, dear. You’ll wake the
poor, tired workmen.” It was then that Cameron
swooned.
A COUNTRY CONCERT.
COUSIN JACK (chairman): “Crishun fren's ,
the next hitem on the program ez a song by
Mary Ann 'Ocking, daughter to little Billy
wot used to be 'ere trUnitin', entitled , ‘ Halice,
Where 're 'Ee Gone to.'"
“T.J.M.”: Don’t think everybody knows
this recipe for catching a rabbit. Walk up to within
about 20 yards of bunny, then start running round
him, working closer in every circuit till you get
within arms’ length. Then, as you pass, pick him
up. I was very sceptical when I first heard it,
but since then I’ve caught over 20, and so far have
never seen it fail. But one thing is important—you
must snap the animal as you are running. This was
the original method of running the rabbit.
“Lantana” : I dip my pen in tears to tell
you that another aged pub has gone where the shick-
ered cease from troubling and the beery are at rest.
This was the Old Harrow, which was dismantled at
Gundaroo (N.S.W.) recently. About half a century
ago it was built by convict labor, and for long was
the only caravanserai in the district. It was con-
ducted by one Jackson, but he is dead, and the con-
victs who laid the foundation stone are dead, and
most of the customers are dead, and the license is
dead; so, as the place was of no further use, and
couldn’t be turned into a church or a music-hall, it
was deaded also.
ENOUGH TO GO ON WITH.
LIZ (giving him a hint): “ Why don’t yer get married, Benno , an’ 'ave a little 'ome a)
yer own?"
BENNO: “ Blimey , I got the toothache; I gotter pumh in the eye Saturday night; an' I
got a boil on me neck. Yer must think I'm a glutton fer trotible."
“Arcarlo” ; At Malaita, South Seas, it is
the men who do the dancing and provide the music,
the women not being permitted to attend. The
alleged musical instruments consist of pipes made of
bamboo, which produce a weird droning in a stac-
cato key to the accompaniment of the harsh rattling of
dry betel-nut shells tied round the musicians’ ankles.
The dancers appear in all their native finery, and the
ceremonies are sometimes continued for three days.
The harvest dance is exceeding pretty and intricate,
each man bearing in his right hand a palm leaf,
which he moves in unison with the music. For this
dance the master of ceremonies (who is very well
paid by the tribe) marshals his men in the form of
a cross; then, with short gliding steps, they go
through a series of figures beautiful enough to make
the modern ballet-girl feel as crude as an Angora
elephant dancing a hornpipe on its front tail.
* * * *
“Leo Lear” : There’s no lightning to beat
ours in North Queensland. A single flash will cover
the whole sky; then one rapid perpendicular stab
will be aimed at an unoffending vegetable, and will
splinter it to atoms. A man who shelters under a
tree during a Bananaland thunderstorm deserves all
he gets. The number of trees that carry lightning
scars in the coastal country make me look for some
open plain when this brand of artillery opens fire.
It isn’t only the larger trees that suffer; I have seen
a 10ft. high stump blotted out, what time the sur-
rounding giants shivered and thanked their luck.
Sometimes the electric current will run down the
centre hollow of a tree, and blow out junks of wood
like portholes down the sides, leaving the bark other-
wise undamaged. Bullock teams seem to have a
special attraction. Recently in the Upper Kolom, a
team was struck, and four out of 16 bullocks were
grilled into quick lunch. The driver’s whip was
shattered and splintered, but he himself escaped,
which is a mighty good advertisement for the sub-,
stance called duck. I once knew a flash to pass down
a chimney, and get between the wall-paper and the
walls; it stripped every inch of covering off the side
of the apartment, and buried the unharmed occupant
in debris. This man may also reasonably be ex-
pected to be among those who back the right horse.
* * * *
“Dux”: Henare it was who lent us the
boat, brought us bait, and pointed out the best fish-
ing grounds at Paremata, so the camp thought it a
fair thing to tender Henare a complimentary dinner.
The menu read: “Tinned vegetable soup, tinned
sardines on toast, tinned corned beef, and tinned
peaches.” Afterwards the phonograph delighted our
cannibal friend until far into the night. He was
truly grateful, and on parting shook hands with us
all (twice), and expressed his thanks thus: “By
corry, yous te chaps orri’. Te tinned toup, he kapai.
Te tinned fish, he not pad. Te tinned cow, he tecent;
but, py cripes, te tinned pakeha —te fella what sing
te song—he take te plurry cake. Kia-ora!”
“Montalex”: About that life-tenacity
question. In the Long Bay (N.S.W.) scrub, I once
caught a lizard which I suspected to belong to a
theretofore undescribed species, and stuck him to a
tree branch with my pocket-knife. I intended to
come back for the assumed defunct, but forgot until
several days later. Then I found that the creature
had spun round and round upon the knife, so as to
make in its body a circular hole, of diameter equal
to the width of the blade. Feeling sorry for the
unintentional cruelty, I pulled out the knife, and
the moment the apparent corpse touched the ground,
it skedaddled like a streak of lightning.
“Wang”: Talking about long-distance
conflagrations, what about tree roots when they get
going? I well remember a stump, which, catching
fire during burning operations, pursued itself under-
ground through a summer and winter, and in the
second summer pushed a torch through the earth
crust, and set fire to the surrounding scenery. Pro-
bably. other roots were thereby ignited, and the
Marathon smoulder may still be meandering round
like a persevering and circuitous incendiary.
“Leo Lear’s” morning nip: The misty
vapor of the morning, clean and soft, and white,
wraps the bush-land. No sounds reach the ear but the
sounds of Nature —the thud, thud of a startled ’roo ;
the songs of the birds; and the patter of myriad
dew-drops, shaken from giant eucalypts. Hidden by
the snowy wreaths of fog, on the highest limb of a
gaunt dead gum, the “butchers” send their clear
clarion calls echoing down the gullies. They chal-
lenge the king of song himself —the grey thrush
who, almost overawed by his rival’s music, sings
softly in the tea-tree on the creek. The whistling
thickhead and the warbling magpie, followed by all
the lesser stars of the chorus, down to the uncouth-
voiced leatherheads in the back row, trill till each
tiny atom of drifting fog vibrates with bird-music.
The air, heavy and cool, is laden with the scents of
the bush, particularly the perfume of the golden
clusters of the wattles and the lemon-scented leaves
of the spotted-gums. Slowly the fog rises ; the dew-
pearls shake themselves to earth, or cling to the
numberless spider-webs that bedeck the saplings. A
gentle morning breeze lifts the remnants of mist
from the hill-tops, and uncovers a sky so clear and
blue, that the last pot of azure in the cupboard of
the gods must have been used for its decoration.
John Bull will wake up, in time, to some of
the reasons why this country believes in a
White Australia. Since the black-and-tan
seaman had his wages raised to a fiver a
month, Bull’s shipowners reckon he’s dear
at the money, and they have passed the
word to their officers to sign on the white
article in future. The officers have never
yearned for the nigger or the Chow in the
fo’c’sle, and have only shipped him because
he was cheap and the office demanded him.
“The office” sits at home in its armchair,
and doesn't have to rave round the decks
hunting broken-nerved heathens out of holes
and corners to handle the ship when a squall
whoops up, or it might not have been so
complacent over saving the difference in
wages. However, the owners encouraged the
discolored person to come, and now they are
encouraging him to stay away. So he has
been getting hungry and vicious, and hun-
grier and more vicious. An officer in search
of a crew, was lately met outside the Board
of Trade offices at Cardiff, by a horde of 800
blacks clamoring for work. His advice to
them to ship themselves to Hades was not
taken kindly, and he was rushed, knocked
down and jumped on by as many of the
1600 hoofs as could get near him. He was
rescued by the police, who had to make a
baton charge, and the incident ended with
seven men going in a lorry to the hospital.
Later on, they announced that they wanted
work, bread or blood, and were going to see
they got it; and they are throwing in John
Bull’s false teeth the arguments that, in his
foolish moments, he unloaded on Australia;
namely, that, black, brown or brunette, they
belong to the Hempire, and have more right
to take the job than any Dutchman, Dago
or other white outsider. John is developing
a permanent crease in his forehead over this
home application of his principles. He has
often cursed a lot of us for disloyalty to the
Empire, but he isn’t keen on curses coming
home to roost with a sharp instrument of
butchery tucked in their \trousers.
♦
“Mana” : Maoriland has, during recent
times,, been disposing- of its public estate at
such a rate that the same pace will ex-
haust the remaining State lands in another
three years or thereabouts. Leaving out
boiling springs, scenic reserves and snow-
clad mountain tops, there , are only about
4,000,000 acres left, and what is to be done
when that is alienated is mightily vexing
the alleged souls of Ward and his colleagues.
Certainly, there are big areas of native lands
still available, but they, too, are being dis-
posed of as fast as the Native Land Courts
and. Maori councils can put, them through
the necessary legal processes. Every scrap
of land that is made available is rushed by
hungry applicants with fire in their eyes and
good coin in their fists, and the Opposition
party in Parliament, which still stands
largely for the big landowner, cries in a
loud voice for a more vigorous brown man’s
land policy, no doubt with the object of stav-
ing off the evil day when a more vigorous
policy will be applied to the remaining big
white man’s estates. But that day cannot be
far distant. Even now Ward proposes an in-
crease in the graduated land tax, with three
years’ grace to the biggest holders in which
to cut up their properties.
♦
“Castaway,” from the Grand Old Country:
Up-here, where I’ve been staying, the crops are
cut With sickles and billhooks. The process is called
“swapping.” During my visit I watched the laborers
cut a crop of 100 acres, yielding 35 bushels. They
were paid by piecework, or “by the rood,” earning
2s. for a day of 18 hours—4 a.m. to 10 p.m. One
man of 65 told me he had raised 12 children on 12s.
a week, and had worked on the same farm since he
was 12. In another five years he hoped to get a
pension of ss. a week. But he felt good for another
12 years work of 12 hours a day. He was full of
dozens.
It boils down to this. The man with the
100 acres might have had 200 acres only
some Yankee or Jew millionaire wanted the
neighboring territory for his pleasure. If he
had had 200 acres, it would have paid him
to get in up-to-date implements, with the
help of which he could have paid his men
Bs. or 10s. a day. It might have paid him
to get in up-to-date implements, anyhow;
but if he had put on a harvester instead of
a sickle, he would have had to sack seven
men out of every eight, and he knows that
if he sacked them they wouldn’t have Buck-
ley’s chance of getting a job, the land on
which they ought to be able to get a job
being occupied by Cyrus A. Pigstick s
pheasants and Moses Rosen stein s par-
tridges. So the farmer sticks to his sickle
and his two-bob-a-day workmen, and gets
two-bob-a-day results; and when Germany,
which has got past the sickle, shows its
teeth, the land of the pheasant preserve and
the Freetrade billhook falls back for sup-
port on —Japan!
LABOR OF LOVE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
John .Crogan was a cocky man
Who tilled the soil at Coorabin.
It was his . customary plan
To work his hands from break of day
Till i shades ,of night were falling grey ;
And then he’d groan, and sadly swear
The days grew shorter than they were.
If waking hours were long with John,
The dinner hour was short, enough,
And screws were shorter still; but Don
And Jim and Peter toiled away,
And never bucked about the pay;
Though John had trained a bantam cock
To wildly crow at two o’clock.
This Crogan had a daughter, Grace,
As fair as man might Jook upon,
And every hand about the place
Took joy in working all the while
For Gracie Crogan’s lightest smile.
And if one left, there was a race
Mid 1 coves who sought the vacant space.
Her father viewed with dire alarm
Her chance of wedding any one.
She was the best man on the farm.
And she, sweet, simple maid, although
She never gave a straight-out “No,”
Said “Yes” to no man s loving speech,
But left the light of hope with each.
There’s now a languid bloke of weight
Who loafs around old Crogan’s farm.
He knocks off soon, and goes on late,
He sleeps all night, and drinks a deal,
And eats for two at every meal.
He wed Grace on the sly, and Jim
And Pete and Don all work for him.
VICTORIA.
SNELL.


Wilkins McQowen (giving
Bull another I O U).
•Thank Heaven, that s
paid i "
The Sydney bakers threaten to
strike. When they do. one mem-
ber of the community will be
right.
1, was seriously proposed last
week to place the Naval College at
Canberra. If the idea is adopted
a new kind of agricultural land
6hip will naturally evolve
The Select Committee on
t he Increase of Rents has
.ha. .he <■.">•»«' „
workmen’s cottages «n Syd>
becoming every day more
This sort of thing is expecte >
hour now.
the worm possessed is reported to
The only floating se rto | y Qhost and Us, an
“ ,e sunk a lt«.1 ’
went round the sea»
from’ passing vessels.
HEBE AND ELSEWHEBE.


GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggiar Bottla)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
WORLD-FAMED
For
QUALITY
HATS.
For
DURABILITY.
20th Century Moleskin.
The Best for Hard Wear.
Registered Trade Mark.
(WARRANTED PURE COTTON.
See that the above Registered Word and
Trade Mark are on and inside every garment.
Garments can be obtained at all Storekeepers.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
The deceased John Harris was notable
for many things, but he is best remembered
as the man who was five times Mayor of
Sydney. There have been only two more
continuous mayors in the Australian capi-
tals—John Smith, of Melbourne, and George
Shenton, of Perth, with seven times each.
E. T. Smith, of Adelaide, and John Davies,
of Hobart, lasted five terms, and John Mac-
master, of Brisbane, four. That makes
four Johns and two Smiths among the
record holders.
It sounds like a cry from the tomb of the
dead past to hear the name of Sammy Lan-
caster spoken of as a candidate for Rodney
(Vic.). Sammy was part of the head and
front of the Kyabram programme—that
scheme by which a crowd of greedy land-
owners proposed to save themselves from
taxation by cutting down everybody’s pay.
When the Kyabram push leaped to sudden
fame Samuel got into the State Begislature
(in 1902) by a majority of 47. There were
three candidates, and he was a minority re-
presentative. In 1904 he got out by a
minority of 83. In 190 S he stayed out. Now
the ghost of Samuel goes- on the war-trail
once more.
REXONA.
The Rapid Healing Ointment relieves with < re-
markable rapidity Sores, Ulcers, Burns, Cuts
Bruises, Eczema, Chilblains, and all Diseases of the
skin. Sold in triangular pots at 1/6 arid '3/-.*
“Alb”: Pius X. has said, "My life has
been all governed by the number nine. I
was nine years at school in Riese (1841-
’5O), nine years curate at Tomboli (1858-
‘67), nine years priest at Salzano (’67-’76),
nine years canon at Treviso ('76-’B5), nine
years Bishop of Mantua (’SS-’94), nine
years Patriarch of Venice (’94-'03).” And
he is in his ninth year as Pope.
There are only three bachelors in the S.
Aus. Parliament. All are members of the
Labor party, and two are Ministers. They are
Chief Secretary Wallis, Attorney-General
Denny and W. D. Ponder. Presumably, to
square the account Denny lately brought in
a Bill to allow women to practise as bar-
risters. He himself qualified for the law
after his election to Parliament.
N.S.W. Police Superintendent Walker,
“the man who shot Thunderbolt,” re-
tires after 45 years’ service. He was a
plain mounted constable when he met the
very-much-wanted bushranger, and spoke
first. Thereafter, besides pocketing the Gov-
vernment reward of £3OO, promotion began
to come his way rapidly. With him goes
out pretty well the last of the “old brigade”
of the ’6o’s and thereabouts.
From “Jeames'’ :
According to the cables, that persistent litigant,
Mrs. Atherton, divorced wife of Colonel Atherton,
of the Ninth Lancers, has endured yet another re-
buff in the Law Courts. She sued Lady Dean Paul,
her sister-in-law, for slander, and gained naught
but a farthing damages and the recorded opinion of
a British jury that she was “a disreputable woman.”
During the Boer War, Mrs. Atherton was one of the
most admired females in Capetown and environs.
Some of the “smartest” husbands at the front openly
east their hearts at her feet, and their wives at
home were rather annoyed about it. Her divorce,
in which the present Lord Churston was the co-re.,
and his subsequent abandonment of her in favor of
a musical comedy artist, are matters of recent
history. The Dean Pauls have had more than their
share of ill-luck. The father of the present baronet
did a term in gaol, and there is another hideous
scandal in connection with the family which Society
only mentions in hushed tones and behind closed
doors.
J. D. Fitzgerald, barrister, journalist and
Democrat, who has been nominated for selec-
tion as a N.S.W. Labor candidate for the
Senate, is old in trades-unionism for his
years. When a grey-headed wreck of 23, he
was president of the Typographical Associa-
tion, and before he attained to the senile de-
bility of 25 he was a vice-president of the
N.S.W. Trades and Labor Council. Twenty-
one years ago, when the maritime strike was
pursuing its disastrous course, he acted as
the representative of the Australian Strikes
Committee to the trades unionists in Europe,
and his presentation of the case aroused
sympathy on various soils where previously
it seemed impossible to raise the article even
with phosphates. Fitzgerald shouldered as
much of the recent referendum fight as ill-
ness would permit, and was one of those
lumbered before the Bobby Court for advis-
ing a crowd in Moore-street, Sydney, to do
the right thing for Australia.
“U.S.” gives a send-off to “Father of
Twenty-six” :
: The Rev. Joe Smith, the Mormon President, is
dead. Polygamy k.lled him at about 76. 1-le was
a nephew of the original .100-- the son of Hyram,
Joe’s brother. Apropos, the new edition of the
“Encyclopaedia Britanniea” corrects the grave
errors about Mormonism that appeared in the
ninth edition, which edition has been the
regular newspapey stand-by for the question. The
ninth edition makes out that Smith and Rigdon
were cool impostors, who invented Mormonism, on
the basis of Missionary Spaulding’s MS. novel, called
simply “Manuscript Found.” Now, Smith is re-
garded more as a victim of delusions than an im-
postor. From boyhood he was an ep.leptic mystic,
like his father and grandfather. The just-departed
Joe Smith had five wives and about 26 children.
He preached around the South Sea Islands nearly
half a century ago, and probably visited Maoriland
and Australia.
THE FARTING OF THE WAYS.
The surprise of the speech, however, is the pro-
posal to alter in drastic fashion the constitution of
the Legislative Council.. .Nobody can say truthfully
that in the interval the Council has failed to be re-
snonsive to the deliberate wishes of the people, or
has been a House of obstruction. —The Argus, tear-
fully on Premier Weary's policy.
THE "CLASS" ENCUMBRANCE: “ Get off, did
you say? Really, young man, your decision
is most unjust, considering 'hat in all our
travels never yet have you seen me blocking
the path before you!”
Dr. J. C. Cox, of Sydney, who took a wife
to comfort his old age, not so long ago, was
a student at the Sydney Hospital as far
back as ISSO, and he has been running in
and out of the place practically ever since.
He joined the hon. medical staff in 1862.
Philip Sydney Jones became an hon. sur-
geon the same year, and he also has been
either that or an hon. consulting surgeon
ever since. The first man who really ran
the hospital was Dr. Redfern, an ex-navy
surgeon, who had been “sent out” for taking
a hand in the mutiny of the Nore. D’Arcy
Wentworth certainly was his boss; but
Wentworth, though principal surgeon, didn’t
own a diploma, and, anyhow, he was too
busy making money to worry about sick
convicts. Balmain, after whom another big
suburb was named, was another surgeon of
those times; most of them managed to suc-
cessfully carve out a land grant or two,
whatever luck they had with the human
leg or appendix.
THE CURE OF SKINS.
“ Ah, my dear , if sins stained the complexion
as they do the soul bishops would be more
sought after.”
" Yes, for then they would all be skin special-
ists.”
Lady Colin Campbell, who died last week,
was the .nost-talked-of woman in London a
quarter of a century ago. Her husband was
an Argyll, the brother-in-law of a Royal
Princess. She got a separation from him
after one of the most sensational trials on
record. She joined the Would staff, in the
time of Edmund Yates, and did the art criti-
cism for some years. She had a vast store
of energy, and was good to excellent at
cycling, fencing, fishing, riding, painting,
singing, swimming and a host of other
things. Her father was one of the famous
Blood family of Ireland.
“Vic.” on some clerical matters :
Re the new Benedictine book and the late Curtis,
secretary of Melbourne Athenaeum (B. 9/11/’ll).
It was well known in Melbourne that he had been a
priest. His employers—both the Athenaeum com-
mittee and the Early Closing committee—knew it.
Further, with that knowledge, he was honored by
the Melbourne R.C. world ; he wrote largely for the
Victorian magazine, which is the official organ of
the Church, and always under his own name. When
he died, the R.C. newspapers joined in eulogy of
him. “Once a priest, always a priest.” True, but
he may be suspended. A priest may marry, but the
marriage suspends him. As a widower he may exer-
cise priestly functions again. It is blankly "impos-
sible to persuade a number of Catholics that Car-
dinal Manning was ever married. His wife was a
daughter of Canon Sargent, and sister of the wife of
Bishop Wilberforce —“Soapy Sam.” Manning had
two children. Both died in infancy; yet, had they
lived, it would have been no bar to his becoming a
priest.
“Adelaide” records a horrible threat:—
Tennyson Smith, teetotal lecturer, told Adelaide
that he was going to get the names of all brewery
shareholders, and “read them out from this plat-
form.” He seemed to think that a horrid threat,
and Minister-of-Agriculture Wilson backed him up
by declaring that men who “associated with the
best society” could not possibly draw dividends
from beer. Wilson has never been accused of being
a snob, so it must be assumed that by the “best”
society, he meant the most religious. Either way, a
pietist must find the case of E. T. Smith hard to get
over. Socially, he is at the top of the Adelaide
tree. Religious he always has been, and in all good
works he is still untiring—at the age of 81. Yet
all his fortune came out of the good brown beer.
True, if is over 20 years since he ceased to make the
wet goods himself, but naturally a good part of his
wealth was left in the big company that bought him
out. Quite a number of the other shareholders are
persistent churchgoers, too. Practical Adelaide, in
fact, which is given to serving God and Mammon,
is about the worst possible place for a bluff of the
Tennyson Smith kind. So, though he got his list
of names eventually, he wouldn’t read it out ; it
didn’t include either parsons, or police officers, or
“public men,” he said, and so wasn’t interesting.
The present Victorian election has brought
several old stagers and defeat-scarred bat-
tlers off the shelf. Trenwith tackles Gipps-
land North, so long a pocket borough for the
late Allan McLean; and Jimmy Mirams, of
the Premier Permanent and the umbrella,
tries his luck as a Laborite against two In-
dependents and old farmer Cameron, at Eve-
lyn. Regrettable attempts at resurrection are
made by Sammy Lancaster, of Kyabram.
who endeavors to toss out Captain McKen-
zie, one of Weary’s hon. Ministers; and Mal-
colm Kenneth McKenzie, grazier, of Broad-
ford, whose land transactions got him into
trouble a few years ago. Some people never
seem to realise that they are lying dead
under a tombstone. Also, the late Davy
Gaunson's little brother Willie hasn’t yet
had enough, though he has lost six or seven
elections, and w T on none. This time he has
pushed into the scuffle between Laborite
Elmslie and barrister Joske, at Albert Park,
and it looks as though he may have to hand
his Majesty a few more pounds.
Alex. Watson, one of Australasia's big con-
tractors, gave life best at Auckland (M.L.)
recently. A hard-headed son of the race of
Iluncan McCohen that inhabits the
north of Britain, it was a cold day
when he lost money on a deal. When
the Treasury buildings were to be
erected in Melbourne
away back in the woolly
old days, Watson was
one of two men in the
place who knew anything
about construction in
stone. Said he long after-
wards : “I just worked
out the cost and the fair
profit, and multiplied it
by two, and I got the job.
Taking it yin way and
another, it was a fairly
profitable piece o’ busi-
ness.” He was a very
wealthy man when he
passed out; also, he was
84.
Jack Johnson and
General Kitchener were
brought together in Lon-
don just before the lat-
ter’s departure for Egypt.
It was a little private
meeting with kid gloves,
and the papers were not
afforded an opportunity
of making two columns
of it. What Kitchener
thought of toe other gold-
spangled fighting man is
not on record, but John-
son has not been so reti-
cent. “That General o'
yours is a top sample,”
he said. “Good shoulder,
good barrel, no yaller
streaks in him, I guess.
He'd a made a great fighter if he'd had his
chance.”
A grandson of Australia’s first post-
master, Isaac Nichols, is now postmaster at
the little township of Llandilo, near St.
Mary’s, on the Hawkesbury plains(N.S.W).
Isaac carried out his postmasterly job on
the banks of Sydney Cove.
A tall man, in a state of partial intoxica-
tion, lately called at this office, and stated
that he knew the murderer of Henry Tre-
vascus, of Sydney. Also, he wrote down
the name, in an unsteady hand, on an en-
velope. Then he hiccupped as though in a
glass darkly, and left.
Ex-Judge Boucaut (S.A.), who completed
his 80th year on October 29, is the only Gov-
ernment pensioner in the Wheat State. He has
drawn £l3OO annually for nearly seven
years. One of his predecessors, ex-Judge
Cooper, drew a pension of £lOOO a year for
30 years, dying at the age of 90. Boucaut
was a member of Parliament for Adelaide
as long ago as 1861, and he was Attorney-
General 37 years ago. A year afterwards
he was Premier for the first time. Sammy
Way was Attorney-General in Boucaut’s
Cabinet in 1876, when Chief Justice Hanson
died, and he snapped the billet, which he has
held ever since. Way was then 40, and
leader of the Equity Bar, with an income of
£4OOO a year. He gave it up for £2OOO and
a stiddy job.
“The Gallery Hand” :
If there is one thing calculated to make dead
Donald Macdonell’s spirit arise and hoot at mid-
night, it is the appointment of State Frights Dacey
to the vacancy caused in the N.S.W. Cabinet by the
death of the broad-minded Australian. I remember
well, in the 1909 session, the language that
Macdonell threw at Dacey after one of his (Dacey’s)
tirades against Federation and the Federal Labor
party. There was a good deal of it, but this is the
gist:—
“It seems to me that his (Dacey’s) concern is
to get behind the Wade Government and boost
them along on some petty parish-pump proposal
that might get him re-elected again, and to do that
he fights against the great Liberal party of Aus-
tralia. I have worked in N.S.W., and the best years
of my life have been spent in N.S.W. I have worked
in every State in the Commonwealth, and there is
not one State that appeals to me more than another,
and there is nothing that appeals to me that does
not make for the good of the Commonwealth. I
would rather turn up my seat to-morrow than ‘bar-
rack’ for something that is going to advantage
N.S.W. at the expense of any other State.”
Death played the Commonwealth a scurvy trick,
when, by removing Donald Macdonell it made way
for another of the McGowen-Holman species of
parish-pumps in the. Ma State Cabinet.
THE CAPTAIN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
After a voyage of nine days the State training-
ship John Murray reached Sydney yesterday.
—Neus Item.
I saw a ship go sailing, dim and spectral in the
gloom ;
All the crew were busy baling ’midst the spindrift
and the spume.
At the helm a ghostly seaman lurched from star-
board unto port—
By the rail a man was dreamin’, and this cove did
I exhort:
“What ancient craft and dreary is this, swamping
in the seas?”
Said he: “This is the Weary from the port of Lots
of Ease!
Captain Slumber sails this hooker—Seaman Slow is
at the wheel;
And her owners mean to book her down below, both
spars and keel!
“We are freighted, sir, with speeches,” said that
pessimist A.B. ;
“While the captain’s parrot screeches, we are drink-
ing up the sea.
Billy Watt's eleventh riiate—he makes a powerful
heap of row ; ‘ f * '
I rather calculate that that is William yelling now.
Things are bad,” the seaman shouted, “and our
deckhand is insane; )
We’ve been swamped and 'i\4ter-spouted, : -so we
won’t come back again !■■ ’ , '
Bos’n Snowball’s in the galley, makin’ a sectarian
stew ;
It s good-bye to Sis and Sally for this wet and
hungry crew !
“Six-and-thirty months a-sailin’,” said the seaman
in despair;
“Always pumpin’, always balin’, but we don't get
anywhere!
For our cargo’s light and risky, and our ballast
sir, is Fat ;
So we puts our trust in whisky, but we don’t get
much of that!
Captain Slumber’s an abstainer—both from tangle-
foot and graft;
I can t put i t any plainer! ’E ain't fit to save ’is
craft 1
All this silly parish-pumpin’ is exhaustin’ of the
crew,
And in spite of it she’s slumpin’—sinkin’ deeper in
th’ blue.
“We are damned from truck to kelson,” said that
parched, profane A.B. ;
“And the carpenter—that’s Billson—seems to think
the same as we!
Dim and Brown, our sea-attorney, sit a-swearin’
down below ;
For it’s been a weary journey, and we’re going to
have a blow !
All the rest agrees, and reckons that this ship will
sail no more ;
Day an’ night the dead men beckon where the
breakers flash and roar.
With his rags of reputation flappin’ round, each slab
of grief,
Claims to be a blood relation, and invites us on the
reef.
“Tell the girls,” that old map shouted, “to remem-
ber us ashore,
I I or the ship’s been banged and clouted, and her
cargo strains her sore.
She’s a mad, decayed old freighter, and she’s saggin’
fore and aft.”
Then the weary navigators left their pumps and
cursed their craft.
I saw that ship go sailing like a shadow in the
gloom,
With the skipper’s parrot wailing ’mid the spindrift
and the spume.
The risen wind was screaming; Captain Slumber
dozed below ;
At the helm a man was dreaming; he was Able
Seaman Slow.
VICTORIA.
GRANT HERVEY.


I
4E
Ssr
SX
V. : I
m
V,
m
u
RGfrt
-o
a
"S
TX
r=>
CSt
J)
m
m
CORRECT.
THERE is a lot in life in being “ correct ” —in dress especially. We have made a study
of men’s dress since 1868, and there is nothing better tailored than our Austral Suits.
We have full range of tweeds, and specialise in Australian, manufactured by our old friends,
Vicars, at Marrickville. & Send for patterns and self-measurement form. Carriage paid throughout
Australia. We quote :
The “Austral” to Measure (Machine=made). 635., 705., and 755.
The “Austral” Special (Hand=made), 845., 905., 955., and 105 s.
GOWING
486, 488 & 490 George Street; & 7,9,
11, 13, 15 & 17 Royal Arcade, Sydney.


WORTHINGTON PUMPS
For
ALL SERVICES.
CAS ENGINES and PLANTS, OIL ENGINES, CONDENSING APPARATUS.
Apply 32-34 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
PERKS, DANE & CO. PTY. LTD.
MELBOURNE
and SYDNEY.
“P.D.” Grease & “P.D.’
Yarn
90 per cent, cheaper than any other system of lubrication.
FULL PARTICULARS ON APPLICATION. Sole Agents for Queensland, E.S.C.A., Ltd., Brisbane.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Various political geniuses in N. S. Wales
are snorting at the Government’s proposal to provide
for the payment of the public debt by means of a
sinking fund. It is utterly unnecessary, they say,
because, as C. G. Wade puts it, “who will question
the assertion that the railway assets of this State are
increasing in value greatly year by year?” These
people, knowing nothing of finance, and caring less,
can’t be expected to be aware that of a total loan
expenditure of £94.961,729 as at June 30 last, only
£58,507,285, or a little more than one-half, was
represented by railways, and that all of the balance
which is represented by other reproductive works is
£19,156,279. This leaves nearly £20,000,000 of
debt, which even the Auditor-General won’t venture
to label “reproductive.”
And, anyhow, hasn’t this country promised to pay
its Cohens—and to pay them in coin? N. S. Wales
has promised to pay £9,884,508 in coin next year,
and £3,881,081 in coin in 1915, and £12,826,200
in coin in 1918, and so on. How is it going to be
sure of paying this money if it hasn’t got a sinking
fund ? Presumably, Wade says it will borrow the
money, of course. But will Wade guarantee that
anybody will lend ? When we promise to pay some
millions, and can only pay by borrowing, we put our-
selves in this position—we must either borrow or
become a defaulter. Without a sinking fund, we
undertake to do something that we can’t possibly do
unless somebody at present unknown to us does some-
thing else, and we haven’t the least right to assume
that the somebody will do it. In ordinary business,
the man who gave Jones an I O U, and had no hope
of paying it except by finding some Brown who would
lend him the money on another I O U, would be
called dishonest. The “Liberal” party says, how-
ever, that that’s its policy. Well, no doubt the “Lib-
eral” party knows what matches its other principles
best.
The Victorian State Land Bank :
Loss by
Discount Carried
on Loans Written to Re-
June, Loss. Floated. Off. serves. Deficit.
1897.. £1,462 £1,462
Profit. Reserves.
1898.. 1,608 £l6OB 146
1899.. 5,551 5551 5,697
1900.. 6,846 6846 12,543
1901.. 8,150 £2931 5219 17,762
1902.. 9,090 4414 4676 22,438
1903.. 8,047 1385 £2OOO 4662 27,100
1904.. 10,280 5374 2000 2906 30,006
1905.. 9,560 8241 1319 31,325
1906.. 10,048 2417 7631 38,956
1907.. 9,503 1834 7669 46,625
1908.. 9,849 1417 8432 55,057
1909.. 10,177 8856 1321 56,378
1910.. 9,668 7970 1698 58,076
1911.. 6,914 5982 932 '59,008
That doesn’t look so well; but there’s a reason for
it. The bank —the Advances Department of the
Savings Bank of Victoria —was established in 1896
to make advances to farmers; and until last year
they were the one class that could borrow. It then
dawned on the Socialists who run the anti-Socialistic
Government of Victoria that other deserving people
besides farmers would be all the better for cheap
money, and that the State was the only institution
which could be depended upon to give it to them
at cost price. Consequently, an Amending Act was
passed, in December, 1910, extending the Credit
Fonder system to house and shop properties. The
organisation of the new branch cost some money, and
funds had to be got in readiness for the demand;
hence the diminished profit shown in the table.
There has been a rush to take advantage of the
new powers given to the Commissioners. Applica-
tions have been flowing in at the rate of about 50
per week; for every one received from a farmer,
four are coming in for loans on shop and house
property. Still, they will no doubt ease off when the
first rush has passed.
The mortgages outstanding, with the expenses
p.c., are shown next:—
Expenses in
Proportion to
Mortgages. Working Mortgages.
June, Outstanding. Expenses. s. d.
1899 .. £758,983 £4465 11 9 p.c.
1900 .. 895,913 5813 12 11 „
1901 .. 1,021,240 6537 12 9 ~
1902 .. 1,144,826 7155 12 6 „
1903 .. 1,267,207 8022 12 8 „
1904 .. 1,337,817 8272 12 4 „
1905 .. 1,369,673 9080 13 3 ~
1906 .. 1,350,623 8692 12 11 „
1907 .. 1,251,051 8506 13 7 „
1908 .. 1,225,431 7866 12 10 „
1909 .. 1,312,204 8187 12 6 „
1910 .. 1,323,811 8745 13 2 ~
1911 .. 1,430,679 9528 13 4 ~
The bank is lending at 4} p.c., and, as it is paying
£3 17s. for its own most recent loan, there is a
very small margin of profit. In fact, if it paid
£3 17s. for all its loans, there wouldn’t be any
margin at all. On the marking account last year
the net profit was only £4059; >iae balance was the
interest earnings of the reserve fund. Strictly, in
fact, there wasn’t £4059 of profit, and that comes
about in this way. The Department has done most
of its borrowing at a discount (it gets its capital
by floating 3$ p.c. debentures), and these discounts
really represent interest: you undertake to pay
more principal than you receive, on condition that
you are let off some interest during the currency of
the loan. These discounts have totalled £50,821,
and to wipe them out in the only honest fashion
an amount is annually appropriated for the purpose;
for last year it was £3891. Deduct that, and the
working profit almost wholly disappears. Granted,
then, that the new branch ran away with £lOOO or
so during the year, and granted also that this ex-
penditure won’t recur, the balance of profit avail-
able for contingencies is too small altogether. Which
in plain words means that the bank can’t afford to
lend at 4| p.c., and ought to be charging :} p.c. more,
presuming, of course, that it can’t reduce its ex-
pense rate, though, considering the size of the busi-
ness, the rate looks a bit too precipitous.
The Agricultural Bank of Queens-
land :
Loss Net Profit
Before Available
Paying Interest Paid for
June, Interest. to State. Reserves. Deficit.
1903 .. £289 3p.c.= £47 £336
Profit.
1904 .. 501 3 „ „ 417 £B4 252
1905 .. 826 3 „ „ 773 53 199
Reserves.
1906 .. 2476 3 „ „ 2031 445 246
1907 .. 4212 3 ~ ~3161 1051 1297
1908 .. 4771 3 „ ~3445 1326 2623
1909 .. 5257 3 „ ~3851 1406 4029
1910 .. 6253 3 ~ ~4278 1975 6004
1911 .. 7694 3 „ ~5147 2547 8551
This is the least satisfactory State Bank in the Com-
monwealth —and it is just as well to observe, in
these days when there is a snort of protest against
the intrusion of the Commonwealth into banking
business, that every one of the six States has some
sort of State bank already; and not one of the six
was established by the dreadful Socialistic Labor
party. It looks, however, as if the Queensland bank
wasn’t intended to be of any consequence, because it
was hobbled disgracefully at the start, and isn’t
much freer now. Its principal trouble has been that,
while the State has a vast area, the bank itself has
been cooped up in one wretched little suite of offices
in Brisbane. The last time The Bulletin made an
observation, the staff, though it isn’t very large, had
slopped out into the passage, and some of the busi-
ness was being done on the mat. Having no branches
and no local agencies, the institution has to keep a
staff of inspectors, who have to do a vast amount of
travelling; and even then there is much delay in
making advances. Further, these advances are not
made in a lump; they are mostly made in small
amounts in respect of improvements in progress.
The private banks, having branches in every district,
and being in a position to thus make a small ad-
vance at practically a moment’s notice, naturally get
(he great bulk of the best business. The stalwart
barracker for State Enterprise may put up with
the delays, which mean loss and inconvenience; but
mostly the man who knows that his security is first-
rate, is seduced into the parlor of the local bank
manager. This is liable to leave the handicapped
State Bank with the culls of the business; also the
knowledge that it is handicapped in other ways is
liable to squeeze the management into giving con-
cessions which it wouldn’t think of if the business
were run on hard commercial lines. For instance,
this from the annual report seems significant: “The
interest received during the year ended June 30, was
£8622, and £3641 was still owing. The greater
portion of this, we expect, will be paid by September
30; and we have still adhered to our policy of en-
deavoring to assist the selector, and of taking no
steps to dispossess a borrower if he shows any wish
to meet us.” For all that, 12 properties are in
hand, and five have been dealt with during the vear.
All this seems a pretty strong hint to the Common-
wealth Government that it is going to strike a lot
of trouble with its bank unless it buys up a strong
framework, such as one or two other banks could
supply. These banks-—the Commercial of Australia,
the Queensland National, and the Australian Bank of
Commerce, for example—have a big organisation
and the machinery for doing a vastly greater amount
of business; and if the Commonwealth doesn’t get
hold of something of that kind, it is going to have
a long stern-chase. And the bank that is in front
never lacks help to take it still further that way.
So, in spite of the rapid increase of Queensland’s
population, and in spite of hitherto unequalled land
settlement, the Agricultural Bank up north doesn’t
make quick progress; and because the business is
still small in bulk, the expenses are high. This
gives the figures:—
Advances
Advances Repaid Expenses
Out- during Working p.c. of
standing. Year. Expenses. Advances.
mo? " fo’?? 3 ~ £557 £8 18 2
1904 .. 20,370 £650 S5O 214 0
1905 .. 38,417 311 687 115 9
1906 .. 94.26 S 3,229 1043 1 2 0
1907 .. 112,216 12,908 1243 1 2 2
1908 .. 119.344 16,716 1199 10 1
1909 .. 136,947 16,184 1388 1 0 3
1910 .. 163,641 21,551 1515 18 6
1911 .. 206,998 27,793 1814 17 6
With a big business the Maori land bank has an ex-
pense rate of only ss. lOd. p.c., which means that,
by reason of the infrequency of customers and
the lack of good machinery, Queensland selectors
,7? an ex tra i p.c. at least for accommo-
clatmn; and they probably also have to pav more
than they should for valuation and exes. Yet they
a r e '»?<■ J’ a yins any more than the bank must charge
. lt; J to keep itself square ; in fact, considering its
risks, the reserves, or accumulated profits, are a good
deal less than they ought to.be. The capital is pro-
vided by Treasury advances.
* * * *
The Bank of Australasia :
Written Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves
£ £ £ £
Oct., 1903.. 151,598 12 p.c. = 96,000 25,000 11 u 951
Apl., 1904.. 150,934 12 „ ~ 96,000 25,000 1,’176,’585
Oct., 1904.. 140, 066 12 ~ „ 96,000 14,000 1,206,951
Apl., 1905.. 136,153 12 „ „ 96,000 10,000 1 237’104
Oct., 1903.. 137,451 12 „ „ 96,000 11,000 1! 267,’555
Apl., 1906.. 137,795 12 „ „ 96,000 12,000 1,297,350
Oct., 1906.. 153,512 14 „ ~ 112,000 12,000 1,326,862
Apl., 1907..227,463 14 „ ~ 112,000 15,000 1,427,325
Oct., 1907.. 188, 750 14 „ „ 112,000 18,000 1,486,075
Apl., 1908..212,029 14 „,, 112,000 20,000 1,566,104
Oct ,1908.. 187,691 14 „ „ 112,000 15,000 1,626,795
Apl., 1909.. 174,111 14 „ „ 112,000 12,000 1,676,906
Oct., 1909.. 177,566 14 ~ ~ 112,000 15,000 1,727,472
Ap1.,1910..193,722 16 „ „ 128,000 18,000 1,775,194
Oct., 1910.. 198,531 16 ~ ~ 128,000 20,000 1,825 725
Ap1.,11911.. 198,460 16 „ „ 128,000 20,000 1,876,185
This great bank is paying larger dividends than it
did even m the days of the boom of the late ’Bo’s,
when it was more or less content with 12 and 14
P- c \ J n V mes w hen most other bankers were losing
their heads, the ’Asia was managed by E. S. Parkes
the abrupt iceberg that came to a sudden end in
the Windsor railway smash. It didn’t have to do
any reconstructing, but by degrees it pulled down
its dividend to 5 p.c., no doubt to enable it to do
some heavy writing down of assets. But you don’t
cut anything off /ie value of a property by writing
down its value in your books. In this case the well-
selected assets, after being nursed for a few years,
recovered some or all of their value. Thus, large
profits have been made on the sale of these written
down assets ; in other words, the bank has been able
to show lately the profits which it either didn’t show
or wrote off in the dark years. Instead, however, of
dividing these exceptional profits, it has been very
prudently strengthening its position both above and
below ground. In 10 years it has added £907,026
to its visible reserves ; besides, it has written down
its premises from £400,346 to £108,863, though
meantime it has spent probably £250,000 on new
premises. Also, it has severely written down its
holding of Consols, which 10 years ago stood in its
books at 90. It is impossible to say exactly how
much profit it has made in excess of the dividend
in the 10 years, but it seems easy enough to account
for £1,500,000.
Yet the bank has not been rushing out any vast
quantity of extra money. This summarises the posi-
tion now and then :
Liabilities.
April, 1901. April, 1911.
Deposits . . £13,971,890 £18,422,949
Other liabilities . . 3,178,329 3,351,878
Assets.
Liquid assets . . £5,605,607 £9,433,218
Advances . . . . 13,793,426 15,836,932
Premises . . . . 400,346 108,863
Thus there has been an increase of only 15 p.c. in
the advances in these remarkably prolific years—
which seems to suggest that the bank has been going
for safety, and has been picking its business care-
fully, a very easy thing for a bank to do when it
has the mana of this one.
As for the past 12 months, you get a general view
from the following:—
April, TO. April, ’ll.
Notes .. .. £514,008 £515,846 Inc. £1,838
Bills, etc 2,589,632 2,836,033 Inc. 246,401
Deposits .. .. 17,000,503 18,422,949 Inc. 1,422,446
Liquid assets .. 8,435,058 9,433,218 Inc. 998,160
Advances.. .. 15,021,437 15,836,932 Inc. 815,495
Premises . .. 150,843 108,863 Dee. 41,980
So the bank owes the public £21,774,828, and has
£9,433,218 of it liquid, or 43J p.c. of the total;
and a big bank with 43J p.c. in liquid form
couldn t have its till emptied by any ordinary rush.
Also, the liabilities in proportion to its own visible
funds are not at all excessive; the proportion is
about £6 ss. to every £l.
Though the cash position is so strong, and though
the public’s money at risk in the business is not
excessive, the earnings are strikingly good. Calcu-
lated on capital and visible reserves, they show up
in this way:—
Apl., 1907 .. £l5 10 10 p.c. I Oct., 1909 .. £lO 16 9 p.c-
Oct., 1907 .. 12 9 5 ~ | Apl., 1910 .. 11 12 10
Ap1.,1908 .. 13 410 „ | Oct., 1910.. 1115 3 ’’
Oct., 1908 .. 11 16 9 „ Apl., 1911 . 11 11 8
Apl., 1909 .. 10 15 10 „ |
That might mean risky business and high rates;
but, in view of all the other circumstances, it is
just about certain that it means assets written down
to bedrock or under, probably a large inner reserve,
and a highly profitable connection.
The Newcastle Building and Invest-
ment Co. (Newcastle, N.S.W.): —
Written Off
(including
Losses To
on Reali- Re- Re-
Aug., Profits. Dividends, sation). serves, serves.
1899.. £4911 4 p.c. =£3356 £390 £1156 £53,368
1900.. 5322 5 ~ ~ 4195 2256 52 239
1901.. 5159 6 ~ „ 5033 1900 50 465
1902.. 6084 6„ ~ 5033 424 627 51,092
1903.. 5736 6,, „ 5033 2'26 477 51,569
1904.. 5765 6,, ~ 5033 209 523 52,092
1905.. 5250 6,, ~ 5033 90 127 52,219
1906.. 5539 6,, ~ 5033 266 240 52,459
1907.. ’5453 6,, ~ 5033 924 51,955
1908.. 5963 7 ~ ~ 5872 708 51 338
1909.. 6958 7£„ ~ 6292 205 461 51,799
1910.. 6398 7„ „ 5872 433 93 51,892
1911.. 6437 7„ „ 5872 671 51,786
Of the reserves, £39,309 belongs to a contingency
fund; and that’s when you begin to see the little
nigger on the fence. The co., before it got its pre-
sent suit of clothes, was the Newcastle Permanent
Investment and Building Society, and it fell into the
soup and suffered the usual mess. To make itself pre-
sentable, it fixed its capital at a much lower figure
than the old one, and turned most of the balance
of the capital into a contingency fund. When the
assets have been sold for less than book values, this
fund has had pieces bitten out of it to make the ac-
counts balance. In 1900 the contingency fund was
£45,365; it is now, as mentioned above, £39,309.
In the same period, properties in possession have
shrunk from £101,243 to £60,611; so that proper-
ties valued in the books at just about £50,000 have
been cleared out at a cost to the contingency fund
of £6056. Many an old boom-bitten concern has
shown a heap worse results than that. How the
residue is going to pan out this paper, of course,
doesn’t know. It certainly isn’t the least attractive
properties that go off first, as a rule. Besides the
foreclosures there are other properties, bought ap-
parently as investments. This shows the whole posi-
tion so far as assets and liabilities are concerned: —
Liabilities.
1900. 1909. 1910. 1911.
Deposits .. .. £17,610 £18,622 £30,170 £28,288
Other debts.. .. 633 299 344 1718
Advances .. .. 29,302 40,816 51,119 53,305
Foreclosures.. .. 101,243 61,090 61,685 60,611
Other property .. 7,183 54,057 54,057 54,057
Liquid assets .. 18,739 2,001 2,369 644
Foreclosures and other property bring in just about
5 p.c.-—apparently after paying for repairs and rates.
Unless there are considerable lumps of unimproved
and unproductive property in the total, that return
is on the small side —for Newcastle. If so, it pro-
bably means that there is still a good deal of over-
valuation ; but one wouldn’t expect it to amount to
anything like even half the total of the contingency
fund. Still, there are risks apart from the proper-
ties ; for unless a man is either a genius, or has a
heap of luck, he can’t make £53,305 of advances on
Newcastle property without striking a few snags.
* * * *
Marcus Clark and Co., Ltd., who carry
on a furnishing and drapery business in Sydney and
elsewhere, and do much of it on a time-payment
basis:—
Deficit
(Goodwill
Dividends. not
A ■ reckoned
Pref. Written as an
Aug., Profits. (6 p.c.) Ordinary. Off. Asset).
1905.. £49,039
1906.. £30,656 £4954 71 p.c. =£11,250 £1694 36,281
1907.. 33,279 6000 7i „ ~ 11,250 2538 22,790
1908.. 33,603 6000 8" „ „ 12,000 2971 10,158
Reserves.
1909.. 35,473 6542 8 „ 12,712 2660 3,401
1910.. 39,640 7500 8 ~ ~ 14,000 3167 18,374
Insurance Fund dropped in, £1920 .. 20,294
1911.. 43,482 8250 8 p.c. = 15,000 2788 37,738
But while you are running one eye down the profit
column, keep the other busy looking at the increase
in the paid capital. In 1906 it was £250,000, in
1909 it was increased to £300,000, during the latter
part of the past year it has climbed another storey,
and reached £350,000 —£200,000 of it ordinary
and £150,000 of it 6 p.c. cumulative pref. That
explains, or ought to explain, part of the spring in
profits. The co. took over the business in 1902, but
the public didn’t get a look-in until 1906. The
original purchase price of the business (goodwill)
was £72,377. By 1906 that intangible item had
been written down to £65,000 out of profits, and it
is still being written down steadily. After writing
various amounts (shown in the table) off leaseholds
and plant and fixtures, the profits in six years have
been £86,777 in excess of the dividends. That is
good ; the next thing is to find out what has become
of this surplus. And this statement of assets may
help:—-
1906. 1909. 1910. 1911.
Stock.. .. £96,965 £138,570 £179,357 £209,271
Book debts.. 124,289 154,106 171,402 175,791
Freeholds .. 77,093 89,226 90,556 92,451
Leaseholds .. 14,093 14,755 18,929 26,751
Plant, etc. .. 17,354 17,217 18,724 18,428
Gash .. .. 3,943 7,106 7,343 8,564
The increases have, therefore, been as follows: Stock,
£112,306 ; book debts, £51,502 ; freeholds, £15,358 ;
leaseholds, £12,658 ; plant, etc., £1074 ; cash,
£4621. Total increase of assets in five years,
£197,519. (This is at the date of the published ac-
counts, and before payment of the half-year’s div. in
each case.) To help finance this large amount,
£lOO,OOO of new capital has been got in, and lia-
bilities to the public have moved as follows
1906. 1909. 1910. 1911.
Mortgages.. .. £40,800 £36,000 £54,000 £50,000
Other debts .. 65,262 65,324 103,187 81,017
Total .. £106,062 £101,324 £157,187 £131,017
So, of the £197,519 of new assets, £lOO,OOO repre-
sents capital; £24,955 represents debts to the pub-
lic, and £72,564 is the profit of the business in
excess of dividends.
It is a very fine accumulation—provided always
that the stock, book debts and real estate are not
over-valued, and that other shrinkable assets have
been written down by as much as they have depre-
ciated. There is no way of checking these values.
One or two things may, however, be said about them.
(11 The stock appears to consist mainly of bread
and butter lines, and they are the lines that are
saleable under nearly any conditions of trade. (2)
The book debts are chiefly on time-payment or hire-
agreement bargains. As the article may be recovered
if the payment is not completed, the security is
better than with the ordinary trade debt. On the
other hand, the time-payment buyer usually buys
that way because he (or she) hasn’t the means to
buy any other way. (3) The freeholds, mostly
bought some few years ago, were officially stated a
while back to stand in at cost; but the appreciation
of the value of property has probably exceeded the
depreciation of the buildings. As mentioned above,
the 6 p.c. cum. pref. capital is now £150,000. That
calls for £9OOO a year. A net profit of £40,000
therefore means £31.000 available in excess of the
pref. dividend, and that is equal to 15i p.c. on the
£200,000 of ordinary capital. Even £30,000 profit
means, besides the pref. div., something in excess of
10 p.c. on the ordinary capital. Accepting the valua-
tion of the assets, there is, therefore, a very wide
margin between present profits and present divs.;
and the directors show their prudence in keeping it
wide until the last of the goodwill paper asset is
pushed through the window.
* * * *
The Tasmanian Permanent Executors and
Trustees’ Association (Launceston) :
Dividends and To Re- Re-
,, Profits. Dividend Tax. serves, serves.
Mar., 1904.. £Bl5 6 p.c. =£3ls £5OO £3131
Sept., 1904.. 667 6 „ „ 315 352 3483
Mar., 1905.. 696 6 ~ ~ 315 381 3864
Sept., 1905.. 1148 6 „ „ 315 833 4697
Mar.* 1906.. 1040 8 ~ „ 420 620 5S]7
Sept., 1906.. 818 8 „ „ 420 398 5715
Mar., 1907.. 714 S „ „ 420 294 6009
Sept., 1907.. 827 . 8 „„ 420 407 6416
Mar., 1908.. 841 8 „ „ 420 421 6837
Sept., 19U8.. 863 9 ~ „ 472 391 795.
Mar., 1909.. 666 9 „,, 472 194 7499
Sept., 1909.. 605 9 „„ 472 133 7555
Mar., 1910.. 648 9 „ „ 478 170 77-5
Sept., 1910.. 968 9 „ „ 472 496 8221
Mar., 1911.. 950 9 „ „ 472 478 8699
Sept., 1911.. 1009 9 „ „ 472 537 9236
The co. has made a small change in the form of
its accounts and “he statement of its appropria-
tions; but things are, anyhow, no worse than
shown in the last line, and they may be a few
pounds better. As usual, the co. doesn’t say what
is the value of estates in hand. It separates in-
come from commission and from investments, how-
ever, and shows that the latter for the six months
totalled £454, whicli was more than enough to pav
the 9 p.c. div. on capital, leaving the whole of the
profit from the business available for reserves. This
means a steadily increasing guarantee to the co.’s
e.ients, dead and alive, that the co. will do the
right thing. The private trustee may be honest,
and no doubt is, as a rule; but he doesn’t put up
any guarantees to that effect. And it’s a fearfully
uncomfortable thing to have to chase a trustee to
Callao —especially if you’ve been dead some time.
* * * *
Gordon House, Ltd. (Melbourne), which
began with a deficit of £l7B, preliminary expenses:
To Re- Ite-
Sept., Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
1904 .. £1832 5 p.c. = 1773 £559 £3Bl
1905 .. 1242 SJ„ „ 851 391 772
1906 .. 1511 «i,, ~ 1005 506 1278
1907 .. 1698 8 ~ „ 1237 461 1739
1908 .. 1906 10 „ „ 1547 359 2098
1909 .. 1671 10 „ ~ 1547 124 2222
1910 .. 1852 10 ~ ~ 1547 305 2527
1911 ... 2105 10 „ „ 1547 558 3085
Gordon House was founded as a cheap model lodging
place, and the co. that originally ran it left most
of its business principles outside on the mat. Now,
that’s all right, provided you don’t work on other
people’s money ; for the wretched mortgagee is very
rarely satisfied to leave either his business prin-
ciples or the bill for the interest on the mat. The
present co., therefore, took its principles inside,
and merely asked them to be as kind as possible.
The result is quite satisfactory; for, though a 10
p.c. div. has been paid lately, the mortgage and
other debts have been hauled down in this fashion:—
1904. 1909. 1910. 1911.
Liabilities .. £11,794 £BB7O £B6lO £8571
Cash, etc. .. 32 73 Jl9 638
Deficit' .. £11,762 £8797 £8491 £7933
The reduced mortgage has lately been fixed up for
another five years, and by the end of that time it
should be down to a handy size, though no doubt
the co. will have to be all the time putting its hand
in its pocket to keep the premises up-to-date. So
far, though maintenance and repairs and furniture
renewals have been charged to profit and loss, no-
thing has been written off against general deprecia-
tion. And even a patched building can’t last for
ever.
* * * *
Berrima District Farm and Dairy Co.
(N.S.W.) ;
Bonus to Written Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. Suppliers. Off. serves.
1900.. £2460 10 p.c. = £92 £685 £4Ol £3,771
1901.. 2370 10 „ „ 94 1010 307 4,730
1902.. 3482 10 „ „ 94 2313 390 5,415
1903.. 2609 10 „ „ 95 2000 368 5,561
1904.. 2898 10 „ „ 98’ 2525 295 5,541
1905.. 4073 10 ~ ~ 98 3130 342 6,044
1906.. 4929 10 „ „ 99 3862 373 6,639
1907.. 4394 10 „,, 99 3450 338 7,146
1908.. 5967 10 „ „ 99 4240 320 8,454
1909.. 4363 10 „ „ 99 1465 295 10,958
1910.. 1591 10 „ „ 99 1251 275 10,924
June,
1911.. 900 _ 131 11,693
Bonus and dividend are attended to after the Decem-
ber balance. This is one of two N.S.W. co-operative
concerns in the produce-marketing business; but, in-
stead of co-operating between themselves, they keep
assuring producers that Codlin’s their friend, not
Short—in fact, Short isn’t a true co-operator at all.
It would pay them both better if each shrieked at
the top of its voice that, while of course it was the
better of the two, the other fellow was infinitely
better than all the non-co-operators who are chasing
up the producer to_ get the marketing of his goods,
and who will certainly hang on to as much as they
can of the proceeds.
* * * *
North Coast Steam Navigation Co.
(N.S.W.) :—•
Unex-
plained
Business Addi- Written
Pro- tions 10 off Re- Re-
fits. Reserves. Dividends, serves, serves.
June, 1904.. 3,992 775 6p.c.=3938 41,649
Dec., 1904.. 5,596 3987 8,, ~5250 45,982
June, 1905.. 5,860 4542 8„ ~ 5250 51,134
Dec., 1905.. 6,230 852 8 ~ ~5602 52,614
June, 1906.. 7,245 1000 8 „ ~6750 54,109
Dec., 1906.. 8,021 1500 8„ ~ 7000 56,630
June, 1907.. 8,791 1573 8,, ~8266 58,728
Dec., 1307.. 8,783 —8,, ~8750 2274 56,487
June, 1908.. 6,239 3526 8,, ~8750 57,502
Dec., 1908.. 8,959 1756 8,, ~8750 59,467
June, 1909.. 9,296 8 „ ~8750 162 59,851
Dec., 1909.. 9,038 2020 8,, ~8750 62,159
June,l9lo.. 8,887 8 ~ ~8750 136 62,160
Dec., 1910.. 9,016 4149 8 „ ~8750 66,575
June, 1911.. 10,587 —8,, ~8750 656 67,756
The reserves are made up of these items: Insurance
and repairs suspense account, £54,450; equalisation
of dividend fund, £13,306. An insurance fund isn’t
the best of reserves, because there is a contingent
liability standing against it; yet, seeing that ships
are usually fully insured with outside underwriters,
this kind of fund is frequently a handy stocking iulo
which to stuff profits that you don’t want to expose
to the light of day. A repairs and renewal fund may
also be a poor sort of reserve; it may be merely a
set-off against actual depreciation. On the other
hand, it may be another convenient stocking to hold
surplus earnings. For this reason, shipping cos.’
published accounts don’t always give one much of an
idea of the real state of things. Still, the general
impression given by the North Coast’s accounts is
that the dividend is very comfortably earned; and
the financial position is also fairly comfortable,
though there has been a large expenditure lately on


ABSOLUTE SECURITY and
EFFICIENCY of TRUST
IVLANAGEHENT
can only be obtained
by appointing....
Perpetual Trustee
Company (Limited)
as
Trustees, Executors,
Administrators, &c.
2, 4 & 6 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
Write or call for Booklet.
A. J. MACKENZIE, Manager.
*9*
Established 33 Years.
THE Trustees, Executors
and Agency Co M Ltd.,
412 Collins St., Melbourne.
The Company acts as
EXECUTOR,
ADMINISTRATOR,
TRUSTEE,
AGENT.
Estates Administered Exceed £24,000,000.
Please call or write for Pamphlet.
JAS. BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
TENDERS are invited for the Purchase or Work-
ing on Royalty of the Black Sand and Gold Re-
covery Company’s “Improvements in Pipe Dredges,’ -
covered by Commonwealth Letters Patent ' No.
13,813, of 22nd February, 1909. The Company
will dispose of their whole or part interest in the
Patent, or will grant licenses to work the same to
fulfil the full requirements of the public. Address:
C/o PHILLIPS, ORMONDE & CO., Patent Attor-
neys, 264-268 Flinders Street, Melbourne.*
* * * V
Pioneer WOOD PIPE has been adopted by the
most important mining cos.. in Australasia ; by its
adaptability arid econbmy; it has shown itself
specially suited for mine service. The Australian
Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Balmain, Sydney.*
* * * *
The tool you will find most useful in your shop is
the Carr Three Way Tool Holder, combining easy'
and rapid adjustment with strength, durability and
great range of efficiency. Three tools in one. Write
to BOHLER BROS, and CO., Ltd., 1 Angel Place,
Pitt Street, Sydney; 183 Queen Street, Melbourne.*
F. DANVERS POWER, mining engineer, is pre-
pared to purchase approved MINING properties. Ad-
dress: National Mutual Chambers, Pitt and Bond
Streets, Sydney.*
Simpitrol Air Gas. —The Light to Swear by—not
at; 98i per cent. Air and 14 per cent. Petrol make
up the Most Brilliant and Economical Light that has
ever yet been offered to the public. The Plant can
be easily installed and the mechanism thoroughly
understood in a very short space of time. Many in
use in the Commonwealth of Australia, New Guinea,
Fiji, and Thursday Island. Write for Illustrated
Booklet, Simpitrol Lighting (Australasia) Limited,
Liverpool Buildings, 153 William Street, Melbourne.*
* * * »
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
If so, write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address, 163 King
Street, Sydney, and 9 Queen Street, Melbourne.* [I
* * *
For driving bands, conveyor and elevator belting
of all kinds, Hopkins Bros, and Odium Prop., Ltd.,
Leicester Street, Carlton, Melbourne. Leading
machine belting manufacturers. With largest stocks
and factory in the Commonwealth. Invite enquiries.
Leather belting (Australian and English) all sizes
stocked. Genuine British Balata and Taylors’
Patent Faced Camel Hair Belting, all widths up to
18in. Conveyor belting a specialty for ore, sand,
metal, coal. Write for price-lists and discounts.
Agents wanted.*
* » » *
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co. Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modern scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne.*
* * * *.
Mine managers when requiring air compressors,
either belt, steam, or electrically driven, should not
fail to inspect the Reavell Air Compressor, when they
will be impressed by its simplicity, compactness and
portability. Owing to the working parts being en-
tirely enclosed it can be placed to work on any part
of the mine, either on the surface or underground.
The number of repeat orders which Messrs. Reavell
have received from the mining community proves
how greatly their compressor is appreciated. The
representatives for Australia are Messrs. Babcock
and Wilcox, Haymarket, Sydney.* 12
* * * *
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign Patents obtained.
Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Melbourne, and
Adelaide. Thirty years* practice. Write us for In-
ventors’ Guide.* 1
* * * •
Assayers, Mine Managers, and Prospectors
l?. nte to H. B. Silberberg and Co., 443 Bourke
Street, Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining
requisites and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc
pnlvensers to 200 mesh; hand sample grinders to
liiorS? ’ 4 inswor to’s assay balances sensitive to
J / i.jUuO gram; prospector’s balances to 1/1000
gram; weight; pocket transits; gasoline combination
furnaces ; Morgan’s crucibles ; chemicals ; etc *
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
account of new ships. This shows how things have
moved:—
Dec., Dec., June,
„ . , 1900. 1910. 1911.
Capital .. ..£131,250 £218,750 £221,097
Creditors . . . . 48,662 23,619 35,842
Ships and wharves . . 157,170 267,719 287,419
Cash and book debts 43,529 31,672 29,578
Sundries of all sorts 12,230 18,303 16,449
The new capital got in during the half-year is in
anticipation of payments on a new issue of 50,000
shares to present shareholders; this will bring up
the issued shares to 300,000 —£1, paid to 17s. 6d.
* * * *
The Mount Lyell Mining and Railway
Co:—
Dividends and Written
Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. Deficit.
Sept., 1903.. _ £2,048
„ Reserves.
Mar., 1904.. £115,172 Nil 113 124
Sept., 1904.. 129,502 12£ p.c. = £78,780 163,846
Mar., 1905.. 161,755 12 „ ~ 78,750 £8,764 238,087
Sept., 1905.. 201,955 12J ~ „ 78,750 9,021 352,301
Mar., 1906.. 267,795 20 „ „ 126,000 8,713 485,383
Sept., 1906.. 251,095 25 „ „ 157,500 10,071 568,907
Mar., 1907.. 282,938 32£ „ ~ 205,074 11,515 635,266
Sept., 1907.. 150,625 35 ~ „ 220,551 11,740 553,590
Mar., 1908.. 141,730 20 ~ ~ 126,168 9,723 559,429
Sept., 1908.. 168,130 174 ~ „ 110,364 12,006 605,189
Mar., 1909.. 141,683 174 „ ~ 110,372 10,153 626,347
Sept., 1909.. 155,081 174 ~ ~ 110,300 9,930 661,198
Mar., 1910.. 131,506 17| „ ~ 111,094 10,076 671,534
Sept., 1910.. 106,274 174 ~ ~ 110,594 10,147 657,067
Mar., 1911.. 100,022 124 ». 79,282 9,964 667,843
Sept., 1911.. 83,775 12J „ ~ 80,098 9,468 662,052
Of recent years the dividend and income taxes have
been lumped together ; so really both the profit and
the dividend and tax are somewhat less than the
last few lines in the foregoing table show. As most
people know, a strike lately broke out at Mount
Lyell; it occurred after the half-year closed, but
while the half-yearly reports and accounts were
being prepared. In view of that trouble, it is par-
ticularly interesting to hunt for the cause of the
slump in the last half-year’s profit.
The eo. is an amalgamation of the Lyell and the
North Lyell, effected in 1903. Apart from a few
thousand tons of cupriferous clays and purchased
ores, from August, 1903, to the end of March, 1911,
the co. had treated 3,013,170 tons of ore, averaging
2.46 p.c. copper, 1.840 z. silver, and 0.0460 z. gold.
For the past half-year 160,695 tons were treated,
averaging 2.70 p.c. copper, 1.560 z. silver, and
0.00360 z. gold. Taking copper at £55 per ton,
these values work out approximately as follows:
Average to Since
Mar., 1911. Mar., 1911.
Copper .. ..£l7 0 £l9 8
Silver . . . . 4 2 3 5
Gold. . .. .. 3 8 3
Total value ~£ll4 10 £1 13 4
There is thus not a great shrinkage in the aggregate
metal value of the ore. But other things have to
be taken into account. The proportion of North
Lyell high-grade ore in the smelting charge has
been increased, and that and other circumstances—
deeper workings, etc. —have inflated the costs. It
is impracticable to show the average for the whole
period ; but this comparison indicates the altered
position:—-
Half-year to Half-year to
Sept., 1905. Sept., 1911.
Mining .. ..£0 5 I’B9 £0 9 I‘B9
Smelting .. 0 6 7'15 0 9 6'29
Converting .. 0 1 610 0 1 4’31
£0 13 3T4 £1 0 0‘49
On top of that big jump in costs has come the
shrinkage in the market value of copper. In a cal-
culation made just now, showing the change in the
metal values, it was assumed that copper was worth
£55 per ton. Fortunately for the co.—and unfortu-
nately for the workmen nowadays—-a few years ago
copper had a boom. This shows the average price
of the metal for the past few years:—
1903 . . . . £5B 3 2 1907 . . . . £B7 1 8
1904 . . . . 59 0 6 1908 .. .. 60 0 6
1905 .. .. 69 12 0 1909 .. .. 58 17 3
1906 . . . . 87 8 6 1910 .. . . 57 3 3
Present price is somewhere about £66 —-a slight re-
covery on figures ruling lately. The output of cop-
per is about 4000 tons a half-year. And the dif-
ference between 4000 tons at £B7 Bs. 6d., and the
same amount at £57 3s. 3d., is about £121,000.
It isn’t very surprising that the co. doesn’t feel very
well. Of course it shouldn’t have based any of its
calculations on £B7 Bs. 6d. per ton. But “in-
vestors” always will find reasons to satisfy them-
selves that a boom price is going to be the normal
price of the future; and that is what happened in
connection with copper. Even directors seem to
turn a boom price and a boom profit into a sort of
datum peg, and measure everything from it.
Since August, 1903, the co. has treated: —
Tons.
Mount Lyell ore . . .. . . 2,191,179
North Lyell ore . . .. . . 981,308
There remain in reserve: —
Mount Lyell ore .. .. .. 2,496,308
North Lyell ore . . . . . . 1,023,362
The divs. paid total £1,695,000, or £1 Bs. 3d. per
share. On mere tonnage there ought to be more
than the same amount of profit in the mine; but,
as shown already, a ton of ore to-day isn’t the same
to the co. as a ton was a few years ago ; and this
paper doesn’t know what its future value is going
to be. Last half-year’s output was 160,695 tons, and
the profit was at the rate of 9s. 9d. per ton of ore
after paying income and dividend tax, but not
allowing " for depreciation. If the 3,519,000 tons
estimated to be in the mine give the same profit,
the total will be £1,715,000. This, however,
might not necessarily be made out of the three
metals. The co. is nowadays a big manufacturer of
phosphate manures; at the end of September its
chemical and super, works stood at £188,211.
What profit these works yield is carefully hidden;
but there is no reason to suspect that the under-
taking is not very profitable. . If it yields only 8
p.c. net on the money invested, it would produce
about £15,000 a year. But whatever the amount
is, it has in the foregoing been added to the profit
derivable from the ore in the mine. In addition
to the ore asset, the co. has a liquid surplus of
£388,892 in excess of its liabilities. There are
1,200,000 shares.
* * * *
General manager Low’s resignation is
ascribed to the fact that another Broken Hill manager
was called in to advise as to the condition of the
Block 10 mill, and was subsequently engaged, with
the North Co.’s consent, to supervise the remodelling
of the plant. In Broken Hill club circles there is
another story; but the calling-in of W eir is a good
enough one to stand by. #
Strenuous efforts have been made to as-
sure J. Bull that everything in the garden ot Great
Cobar (N.S.W.) is lovely, and that, though the
orchard is taking a long while to bear, there will
be a fine crop for shareholders presently. lhe
struggle doesn't seem to have been very successiul,
for after sagging steadily for months, the £5 snares
in London took a header last week, and went down
to 43s. —apparently as the result of a general
crumpling-up of confidence, in view of (1) the re-
fusal of the output to grow, and (2) the weight ot
the debenture debt, etc.
* * * *
Y Water, Emmaville (N.S.W.), must
have been aiming at a record when it sluiced 83,000
cubic yards in 956 hours, for a return of 70 tons tin
oxide. The return equals I.BBlb. per cubic yard.
For the half-year the average extraction was 1.391 b.,
and costs didn’t eat up half the proceeds, even with
dirt of that lower grade. The increased extraction,
and the probability of a bigger dividend, has brought
Y Water shares into still further notice in Mel-
bourne.
* * * *
Bullfinch Proprietary (W.A.) is promised
a 200-ton-a-day mill by the end of 1912 ; but it isn’t
known what the recoverable average is going to be,
or how many months’ or years’ supply of ore there
is in reserve. The fact of the shoot only haying a
length of 140 ft., and being worth 12dwt. instead
of the expected lOoz. or 12oz. at 200 ft., may be
some guide as to the future. In having another
fling at the property in the London Times, Gerard
Williams says that if he made a mistake in his pre-
vious articles, it was in that he gave too high a
valuation, and did not sufficiently emphasise the fact
that the shoot of rich ore was so limited. He
further remarks that the recent Government, realis-
ing too late how serious a part it played in mis-
leading the public, refunded the bulk of the pay-
ments made for township blocks at Bullfinch. This,
however, isn’t correct. No payments have been re-
funded, but an extension of time has been granted.
Meantime, only three trains a week are run over the
line, and the Proprietary, Co. is the only one work-
ing on the field. The rest have scattered far and
wide. The Birthday Gift has gone to Mount Weld
(near Laverton), the Bulloak to Paynes’ Find, the
Greenfinch to Westons, the Chaffinch to Davyhurst,
the Bullrush to Meekatharra and Yuin, the Golden
Butterfly to Kookynie, the Bullfinch West and South
to Leonora and North Murchison respectively, the
Young Bullfinch to Yundamindera, and Rowan’s Find
to Mount Morgans (W.A.). Some of the others are
wandering about in search of a suitable perch. The
balance are down and out.
* * * «
Chaffinch Co. is having go at the old
Callion lease, Davyhurst (W.A.), and fervently hopes
that it has alighted on the right spot. The half-
year’s accounts to August 31 show cash on fixed de-
posit £10,062, and in hand £l7OO. Development
expenditure at Bullfinch and elsewhere absorbed
£2215, and other outlays during the period aggre-
gated £738. The profit and loss account showed a
debit to date of £4227. The option acquired some
months ago at Pigwell did not come up to expecta-
tions, and has been turned down.
* * * *
London has shuffled the cards again, and
the Oroya Exploration and Lake View Consols be-
come the Lake View and Oroya Exploration, Ltd.,
with a capital of £450,000 in 10s. shares. There
are 350,000 shares of 10s. in the Lake View, and
500,000 of 10s. in the Oroya Exploration; but in
the latter some are only 3s. paid, and the total paid
capital is about £185,000. The new scheme means
350,000 shares (as at present) for the L. V. Con-
sols people, about 370,000 for the Oroya share-
holders, and about 180,000 in reserve. The Oroya
has mining ventures all over the globe ; and the L.
V. Consols will now risk whatever it has left in
hunting for mines in Nicaragua and other places.
“The L. V. Consols’ resources will materially con-
tribute to the realisation of the Oroya Exploration
properties, and earlier payments of dividends,” 8.,
M. and Co. write (they, of course, put the deal
through), “whilst the L. V. Consols, Ltd., partici-
pates in the valuable mining interests of Oroya
Exploration, Ltd., which offer large possibilities of
expansion of value and continuation of dividends.”
It ought to further impress on the minds of “in-
vestors” that nowadays, when they invest in (say)
the Great Bluebottle, Ltd., believing that the Great
Bluebottle is a big mine, they are liable presently
to find that the Board in London has pooled the pro-
fits from the Bluebottle with the funds of some con-
cern whose ostensible .job in life is to dry-blow
icebergs for brass.
* * * *
Oroya Links (W.A.) is whooping over a
new development in a way that suggests that it
thinks it has found 6d. after losing sd. The locality
of the find is in the Croesus Proprietary workings, at
750 ft. So far values have averaged 305., and on
present showing this is expected—if it lasts —to give
a good margin of profit, and lift the co. a little from
the lowly condition to which it has fallen during
the past couple of years.
* * * *
Golden Ridge (W.A.) seems to have fallen
on evil days. Six months ago the amended calcula-
tion of ore reserves showed that there were 42,000
tons of ore in sight, of an average recoverable value
of 435. per ton. Between then and the end of the
half-year just closed, 16,842 tons were treated for
£35,230, or an average extraction of £2 Is. lOd.
per ton. Another estimate of reserves has since been
made, and this gives the ore in sight at 25,000 tons
of the same grade as before. In other words, while
the mill encroached on the reserves to the extent of
nearly 17,000 tons during the past half-year, next
to nothing in the shape of fresh ore has been opened
up in the interim. Either that or the estimate of
six months ago was all astray.
* * * *
Golden Pole and Gwalia South tried to
hold half-yearly meetings at Kalgoorlie on the 30th
ult., but failed for the want of a quorum. The same
thing happened six months ago, and as the required
number of shareholders did not turn up at the ad-
journed meetings, the matter was allowed to drop.
It looks as if the same lack of interest is going to
be shown in the present instance.
* * * *
The Stannary Hills (Q.) people are ex-
tending three levels on their recently acquired Dead
Finish mine. Assays don’t always mean much when
prospects are so patchy, but the 44 p.c. tin oxide, at
the end of the 260 ft. level, made some of the Ade-
laide owners think they had got hold of a gold mine.
However, Manager Stockdale’s estimate is modest
enough, for he reckons at present only 166 tons of
20 p.c. ore, which figures 33 tons of oxide of tin.
Why not drop this old-fashioned method of com-
puting tin values in terms of oxide, and report
assays of metallic tin? On a metallic basis Stan-
nary’s 20 p.c. oxide would read 15 p.c. metallic tin.
* * * *
Gympie (Q.) returns for October were
rather featureless; 12,530 tons yielded 49960 z. gold.
Only one dividend (3d. =£1800) was paid; No. 2
South Great Eastern did it. Calls = £4270. Chief
producers were: Scottish Gympie, 7500 tons, 20440 z. ;
No. 2 South Great Eastern, 1075 tons, 851 oz. ; No.
3 North Columbia, 1512 tons, 5530 z. ; No. 1 North
Columbia, 775 tons, 3610 z. ; South Glanmire and
Monkland, 1004 tons, 3240 z. A development in new
ground is much needed. The proof of a good bed of
slate in the Great Northern, to the north of the field,
would supply an encouraging note; and there is still
room to hope for that.
* * * *
Brilliant Extended, Charters Towers, made
a loss of £432 last month, owing to the average
yield dropping to £1 14s. 4d. Probably a larger ton-
nage will be put through this month, as plant has
been overhauled. Profit for September was £3318.
Marshall’s Queen, after a long spell, comes along
with a sixpenny. The recent crushing of 725 tons
gave £3 12s. lid. per ton; the co. expects to
have another clean-up this year. The future de-
pends considerably on developments below the 1326 ft.
formation, and on a shoot of stone coming in from
the Bonnie Dundee. The Bonnie itself is shaping
better. The crushing of 354 tons for 5420 z., and
the opening of No. 4 level below the 609 ft. forma-
tion, may revive interest in this show.
* * * *
During the half-year, Mills’ United, Char-
ters Towers, crushed 12,988 tons for £45,877, which
gave a profit of £14,456. As the concern had held
on to a lot of hard cash, there was no difficulty
about paying the Is. dividend ( £15,000). At the
end of the half-year the total credit amounted to over
£49,000. Starting in 1889, Mills’ United has
crushed 448,584 tons for £1,690,983, and paid its
shareholders dividends amounting to £622,500, or
£2 Is. 6d. per share. Recently the crushings have
been poorer than usual. Also, there is a good deal of
anxiety about the result of prospecting 300 ft. below
No. 14 level, in a block of ground extending east-
wards towards the New Brilliant Freehold ; and the
anxiety is all the keener because of the indefinite
statements with regard to reserves in other parts of
the mine.
* * * *
Blair Athol (Q.) turned out 33,327 tons
of coal last half-year, and, with the mine well
developed and the plant much improved, it starts off
the next term with a month’s output of 7700 tons.
The half-year’s trading profit was £3653, after pro-
viding £l3l for plant depreciation and £416 for
royalty; and a couple of sixpenny divs. absorbed
£3593. The co. has a share capital of £26,022
(75,000 shares of 10s., with £11,478 uncalled) ; pre-
miums on shares have supplied reserves with £7636
and £lOOO put up on a forfeited option has also
been added to reserves. The co., on September 30,
owed £2054, but had book debts over £2OOO in
excess of that. Further plant extensions have been
decided upon, and the outlook, so far as coal supplies
are concerned, is excellent.
* * * *
Those who expected that the new Ether-
idge feeder would give the Chillagoe Co. a gradu-
ally increasing railway revenue seem to be in for still
another disappointment. The figures for the first
seven months of the year are £15,662 poorer than
those for the corresponding fraction of 1910.
* * * ,*
Chillagoe Co.’s officials have sampled the
mostly Bull-owned New Einasleigh (Q.), with a
view to an arrangement with the most imminent
creditors: £32,000 of 6 p.c. debentures are redeem-
able in January, 1912. The annual report to Janu-
ary 31 shows that 20,096 tons of ore, containing
1374 tons copper, gave a gross profit of £6495; but
the co. is so heavily in debt that interest and
other expenses whittled down the net profit to £719.
In the last three months, Hampden-Clon-
curry (Q.) smelted 7699 tons of ore for 2063 tons
matte, containing copper 727 tons, gold 6920 z.,
silver 95510 z. The average extraction was 9.3 p.c.
copper, I.79dwt. gold, and 1.260 z. silver. The im-
proved market for Hampden shares is partly due to
an idea that a scheme for amalgamation with Mount
Elliott will mature, and partly to good prospects in
the Duchess mine, where the bottom level at 550 ft.
vertical is facing rich ore 338 ft. from the crosscut.
The discovery of two well-defined rich shoots at the
400 ft. and 550 ft. levels will encourage deeper sink-
ing, and reserves should show a large increase when
next reported on. Still, in spite of these local en-
richments, there are wide blanks, which make the
mining of the richer portions expensive.
Maori Queen, Bright (Vic.), is having the
time of its life. To pay £4 ss. per share in a 12-
month spells a Cup suit for manager Tom Husband
and an ivory rattle for the grand-baby, especially as
two-thirds of a bit of .a mortgage on plant was
liquidated in the same time. This all comes through
No. 1 dredge getting on to' 5Jd. ground, against 3d.
ground lifted by No. 1 plant. The weekly average
yield of No. 1 dredge (52t0z.) ought to be a record
for Bright, where the old hatter left very little but
scrapings. It came from the dredge happening on to
ground towards Germantown, where, with the bot-
tom soft, and the gold well distributed, splendid
returns can be counted on. When out of that run,
the chances are that the No. 2 dredge’s average of
250 z. a week will approximate the worth of the
lease.
* * * *
Daylesford’s little shows are having their
day, to the inward happiness of the machinery-
mongering and share-broking Ballarat ring. 'the
North Nuggetty flutter provided fools with the
motive to buy into low-priced scrip, regardless of
whether the claims were in Heaven or Sheol. North
Nuggetty, as a position block, and on developments,
has some right to market favor. So with Central
Ajax, though to rush shares to 355., on such work as
the mine can show, is to invite a call from the
banker to settle up one’s overdraft. But that Nug-
getty Trafalgar or North Ajax, which are beyond
the shadow-land of the big mines, should have their
boom, is to discount the future very - heavily. New
Specimen Hill and William Tell are two other specu-
lative aspirants who, having had the starter’s word
to go, haven’t lingered on the road. They are off
the Ajax line altogether, though half the country-side
believes they are within a stone’s throw of the North
Nuggetty.
* * * *
Josiah Thomas, the new Minister in
charge of the Northern Territory, knows more
about mining and the mining shark than anybody
else in the Executive, so he may be expected to
stand no humbug with wild cat promoters who
want to get their claws in. He won’t have to wait
long before action will be called for. Already
Horatio Bottomley is pushing off the New North-
ern Territory Explorers, Ltd., and is scattering
tens of thousands of leaflets headed —“The Coming
Boom in ‘Northern Terrors’: A Few Facts About
the Phenomenal Mineral Wealth of the Northern
Territory of Australia: A New Company About to
be Launched: Expected Rush for Shares.” This
concern is apparently to take over some or all
of the properties of the original Northern Terri-
tories Gold Fields of Australia, a concern over
which J. Bull was fleeced to the extent of over a
million. Capital is unquestionably wanted for the
development of the N.T.; but above all things it
is necessary that the first N.T. enterprises
shouldn’t fall into the hands of London adven-
turers whose one object will be, not to develop the
territory, but to merely use it as a means of ex-
tracting coin from the public.
» ■ * * *
A handy volume, whose title, “The Aus-
tralasian Company Secretary,” pretty well explains
itself, has been written by J. S. Barton, and produced
by the Sydney and Melbourne Publishing Co. The
author has the three necessary qualifications for his
work —he is a lawyer, he is an accountant (a mem-
ber of the council of the M.L. Incorporated Insti-
tute), and he has a lucid literary style. The at-
tempt to write a guide to company secretaries, re- •
siding in all parts of the Commonwealth and Maori-
land, was full of difficulties, and the author has
often had to say “This applies only to Victoria and
Queensland,” or some other part. Nevertheless, the
work appears to have been excellently done, and
even the experienced secretary will be all the better
for having the handy reference book on top of his
desk.
“Will the undertaking pay?” The economical
handling and transport of ores, fluxes, coal, coke,
merchandise, etc., in or about mines, factories or
warehouses, very often solves the problem. W. and
J. Lempriere, of Melbourne, as agents for Bleichert
and Co,, can give useful information on this subject.
The Bleichert firm has several aerial ropeways work-
ii g in Australia, or in course of erection, and will
soon have at work, near Sydney, one of the largest
electric “Telpher” plants in existence. Special
electric and other cranes and mono-rail conveyors
can be procured from the same firm.*
* * * *
Nobel’s Hamburg Explosives are the best and
most reliable, and their factory is the oldest dvna-
mite factory in existence. At the recent Brussels
Exhibition they secured three gold medals for high
explosives against all-comers. We ate supplying our
explosives to the largest mines in Australia, and this
year half the N.S.W. railway contract was awarded
to us. See that you get the best explosives by
writing to us direct, or specifying “Nobel’s, Ham-
burg.” For dangerous work you must have the best.
Write to sole agents, William Adams and Co., Ltd.,
of 175 Clarence Street, Sydney.*
* * * *
The undisputed benefit of asbestos covering for
steam-pipes and boilers has been exdmplified by a re-
cent scientific treatise of the principles of steam
conveyance. Tests made have established the fact
that 100 square feet of pipe covered with this
material, at a pressure of 2001 b. per square inch, and
coal at 16s. per ton, will save £7 per year, and
prevent loss of pressure equal to 13.84 B. Th. U. per
square foot per minute. Bell’s Asbestos Non-con-
ducting Composition, supplied in cwt. bags, or
applied by experienced workmen at contract rates.
Bell’s Asbestos, Ltd., 315 Kent Street, Sydney.*
* * * ' *
The Bigelow Patent Rock Breaker commends
itself to mine managers who welcome an effective
machine which _is cheaper to maintain and repair
than Gyratory and other crushers. This machine is
of the well-known Blake type, but has some ad-
ditional improvements which have justified in prac-
tice all the claims advanced by the patentee. The
work of crushing is done on the down-stroke of the
pitman instead of the up-stroke; there is no strain
on the pitman cap; two large side rods resist the
thrust of the toggles, and enable, the jaws to be
regulated within a large range; the back toggle is
so made as to resist all legitimate strains of crush-
ing, but will shear under exceptional conditions and
save the machine. The shaft and eccentric bearings
are self-lubricating; the jaws are convex and con-
cave, and with the cheek plates are made of steel
and are' reversible. The Austral Otis Engineering
Company, of South Melbourne, have installed a great
number of these machines, and hold the sole manu-
facturing rights for the Commonwealth.* [3
Extract from the < Financial News, London
(29/7/1910) : “The bonus is one of the best yet de-
clared, and, in the opinion of the actuary, ‘the
prospects of distributing satisfactory bonuses in the
future are better now than they ever were before.'
The Colonial Mutual has certainly earned its reputa-
tion for financial strength and fair treatment of
policy-holders.”*


✓
(•MtbrcwifiMtfi
HEERING
HEERING’S
COPENHAGEN
CHERRY
BRANDY.
Est. 1818.
PMOM
bmjnbnbmnb
Renowned
Trade Mark.
STUHR’S
Finest Table Delicacies
Genuine Caviare.
Anchovies in Brine.
Peeled Shrimps.
Shrimps Extract.
Sold by all High-class Provision Dealers.
C. F. STUHR & CO., Hamburg.
English Export Agent: W. Lovegrove, London,E.C.
BOB**
a
■P.
(RoftlW
X' N' V- V.
1 find from experience there
are very few things one can rely
on being always up to standard,
and worth the good money
you’ve got to pay for them;
as regards tea, however, l feel
quite safe 1 use the No. 2
Grade Robur, which makes a
cup of tea fit for any reasonable
person to drink—and it’s always
the same —and 1 don’t know many
things that the same can be
said of.
Before 1 started to use Robur
l got my tea from a tea-
traveller, but 1 don’t let these
men waste my time now. I’m
satisfied that Robur is the best
tea that can be bought for the
money, and having found what
suits me, l stick to it.
The Boarding-House Keeper.
QUALITY—BUCHANAN WHISKY
“BLACK & WHITE.”
A
WOMAN’S
LETTER
Sydney, November 13. 1011.
My Dear Arini. —
The sub-Excellency Chelmsfords arrived
at Adelaide on Saturday, and are at this
moment of writing frisking up towards
Broken Hill in a train which makes its own
electric light as it strolls along. (You can’t
beat S. Aus. for experimenting with railway-
carriage lighting. Years ago an ex-Minister
for Works and a very prominent politician
was burned to death through a defective
lighting apparatus, and S.A. train-travellers
have been blessing that accident ever since.)
His Ex. is going to have a riotous time on
the silver field. It was proposed to feed
him in public “to welcome his Excellency
back to N. S. Wales” ; but at Broken Hill
Tom Mann is a bigger potentate any day
than Frederick John Napier Thesiger, Baron
Chelmsford, and the idea of free food had the
only drop of cold water in the place thrown
oyer it. So the Baron and the Baroness
will have to take their own nose-bags with
them when they go tramping over the mines
—unless the companies hand them a snack
at the pay-office windows.
Having looked into the big pots into which
a tew drops of acid and eucalyptus oil turn
black sand into silver, lead and zinc, and hav-
ing, no doubt, made the usual bright re-
marks on the subject, his Ex. will trek over-
land from “the Hill” to Sydney, while
Cady C. trains round via Adelaide and Mel-
bourne. Tnat overland trip from Broken
Hill isn’t one you’d recommend to your best
friend, especially if he was just oft' ship
after a long voyage and in soft condition.
Nobody takes that track to Sydney except
prisoners and Governors. You see, they
have to take prisoners that way, because
once a malefactor gets across the border—
supposing they took him by train in the
round-about way—he is liable to behave
rudely to the N.S.W. policeman, whose au-
thority falls down - dead somewhere in the
mulga between Broken Hill and Terowie.
Lunatics used to be in the same class as
prisoners and Governors; but a few years
ago some bright official sustained a rush of
sense to the head, and South Aus. now takes
charge of the Ma Stater when the monotony
of the saltbush or the sulphides bites larger
holes than usual in his intelligence.
It is a beautifully simple process, this of
getting rid of our way-out lunatics, and
shows that we have still to learn a thing or
two about Federation. First of all, a N.S.W.
magistrate certifies that Saltbush Sam isn’t
a fit and proper person to be at large. Then
the N.S.W. law lays hold of him and leads
him to the imaginary line where N.S.W. and
S.A. meet in the wilderness. The S.A. law'
is waiting on the other side; and at the word
“Go!” the N.S.W. law shoves Samuel over
the border. The S.A. law seizes him, and
on a casual inspection—backed up by the
remarks which the N.S.W. officer hollers
into its ear—it decides some more that Salt-
bush Sam isn’t a fit and proper person, etc.
Then S.S. is dropped into the train again
and taken on the rest of his journey.
Mr. “Libby” Hordern is alleged to have
cleared enough cash in Cup time to keep
him in cigars and tram tickets for a week or
two. The amount mentioned by unreliable
rumor is £ll,OOO. Lebbeus is on the sunny
side of 21, so I’m told, with a pot of money
waiting for his coming j of-age share in the
Hordern millions.
The widow of the late engineer-in-chief,
John Whitton (of N.S.W. Permanent
Way), passed over the outer rim of this
planet, in England, the other day. Her de-
parture will stir up North Sydney’s oldest
inhabitants, to recall the days when the
N.S. pilgrims, who had adventured the
voyage from the Quay to Milson’s Point,
crawled slowly up the steep road (if they
were lucky) in a venerable ark, drawn by
three lean beasts. If they were unlucky,
they sprinted on foot. The Whittons were
old N.S. inhabitants, and their memory is
still fairly green in those hilly parts. Hen-
niker Heaton said, in 1879, that the Blue
Mountain Zig-Zag would hand John Whit-
ton’s name (as its creator) down to pos-
terity. But posterity in 1910-11 has been
hurling bricks and technical language at
the. engineer who devised this lately-deceased
train slide. There was only one use for
this picturesque mistake —it was good for
the post-card business.
Australian-born Justine Kong Sing, who
went from this town to Bull’s islet some
months ago, to pursue the art' of the minia-
ture in its London stronghold, has been men-
tioned as an exhibitor at the autumn pic-
ture show in the dockyard city of Liverpool.
The Duke of Abruzzi, who stampeded over
the earth in search of trouble, chased the
dollar princess, Miss Elkins, to the edge of
the altar, was pursued by a leopard, which
objected to Italian big game in the Moun-
tains of the Moon, and left two fingers on or
about the North Pole, is described as the
present idol of Italy. His alleged success
in the first Italian naval scrap with Turkey’s
old ferryboats—provided there was any such
scrap—puts Abruzzi on a topmast down
Naples way. But the tendency of popular
idols to wear large feet of clay when there’s
an heiress in the wind, clouds the Abruzzi-
Elkins romance. If the Italian Romeo had
bolted with the girl of his heart, thrown the
clod of derision at her old man’s dollars, and
diagnosed his royal relatives’ thunder as
mediaeval crackers, He'd have done a bigger
thing than driving a Turkish marine dead-
beat ashore off Preveza.
The pretty Miss Poplin, who is, inci-
dentally, a niece of Mrs. Hill (of Yass), came
back from Westralia the other day. The
Lochinvar (who, also, “came out of the
West”) is a doctor. The we’dding occurred
last week from the Hill wool patch, in the
Yass-Murrumbateman acreage. The girl’s
bridal plumage is said to have been a beauti-
ful dream in white shimmer, with a foam of
crepe-de-cliine as a last remark.
Miss Besnard, another niece of Mrs.
Hill’s, is going .to have her orange-blossom
party early in December. Dr. Selwyn Har-
rison is to be the groom. Miss Poplin, who
was to have been a bridesmaiden at the Bes-
nard-Harrison wedding, was scratched for
that event when she went over to the great
matrimonial majority, so the bride’s starters
will be Miss Dorothy Gordon, Miss Harri-
son, and Mrs. Hill’s small daughter.
Artist Joseph Wolinski, of these shores,
migrated to Europe some time ago. Lately,
he flew back to his old perch for a holiday,
and now he is hanging his latest brushware
on view in this town. Saturday, November
IS, will see the Wolinski pictures on the
walls of the It. A. Society’s Rooms, 76 Pitt-
street. The show meanders on till Novem-
ber 27.
Hugh Mclntosh is going to push along a
matinee, in aid of the Sydney Hospital Cen-
tenary splash. Nellie Stewart has given her
name and address as first aid in charge of
non-combatants, etc. The Stadium is to be
the place, but no further details have come
to hand.
A Miss Mary Bridson has let herself go
on the subject of chasing big game, as a pas-
time for women. This outbreak occurs in
the National Review, and echoes with the
crack of rifle shots. But it takes no note
of the pursuit of big game—dukes, million-
aires, etc. —on velvet lawns and Axminster
carpets. Nyassaland is the place where this
mighty huntress went to harpoon the python
in the spring. The joy of elephant-hunting
on foot will probably appeal to 1 per cent, of
women. “In the hot, low country near Lake
Nyassa,” says this Diana, “I walked in pur-
suit of elephants from five in the morning
until half-past 12....1 covered quite 20
miles (through long grass), and the air was
like a furnace.... My back felt half broken
when I arrived in camp.” Mary chortles
gaily of wild life in tropic sun-bursts, says
she crawled on all-fours over sharp thorns,
etc., bagged 50 head of game in seven or
eight weeks, and implores otner women to go
and do likewise. (N.B. —Lady gunners
are requested not to lose their heads and bag
the heathen guides.)
Ballad-singer Maggie McCann, formerly of
these latitudes, who trotted through the
British rainfall as Margaret MaeCann, was
married, a few weeks ago, in London to one
Colquhoun-Thompson. Mr. C.-Thomson, whose
name implies kilts and Highland gatherings
and brose amongst his forebears, is in charge
of certain manganese mines way down in
Gippsland (Vic.). Manganese, I am told,
is one of the necessaries of life to ironclads
and other weapons of defence in a big way
of business. Mrs. McCann-Thomson cuts
the Fogland concert platform this month;
and comes back to Australia with her new
property early in 1912.
A Cold Land correspondent drops in a few
remarks re Ada Crossley and crocodiles.
Ada says she wiped the dust (with her
feet, wheels or motor-boat) off about 22,000
miles of African scenery in her recent
tour, and tells the fierce story of one
dead crocodile. Large headlines, in-
cluding the Bugi River, four hippos,
the Crossley slaughter of one crocodile
(probably young enough to sniff the edge of
Ada’s gun barrel), and native war hops,
have given the Wattle Land contralto a
mighty advt. in the Bulldom of England.
The handsome Celtic cross in Waverley
Cemetery that now perpetuates, in marble,
the name of late musician John A. Delany,
was the in memoriam offering of members of
St. Mary’s choir, the Sydney Liedertafel and
other persons with a tuneful echo in the cav-
erns of their souls.
As if there were not enough people already
risking a wet grave in the ferry smash that
is coming, the Government has approved of
the shifting of the Zoo to the other side of
the unbridged harbor. In the old, congested
spot in Moore Park the tortoise is always
liable to tread in its haste on the lion’s tail,
and the elephant has to hold up his trunk
out of the way when the boa-constrictor
yawns. So the committee has been looking
around for more elbow-room, and has found
it at last on Bradley’s Head, which has the
leafiest slopes of all the harbor foreshore.
The misfortune about Bradley’s Head, at
present, is that you can’t get there except by
ferry, unless you are a long-distance pedes-
trian ; and, by reason of the big bites that
Nature has taken out of the northern coast-
line of the harbor, it will be a long ride
from everywhere even if a tram is built.
Still, it’s a charming site, where the giraffe
may browse on maiden-hair fern growing
wild in full view of the G.P.O. clock, and
the mermaids may flick their tails in the
sandy face of Athol Bight.
The Women’s Handicrafts’ Club in this
blue water-front seems to have put its fist
into the right place. It departs, with a loud
concussion, from the ancient habits of some
of its forebears, by barracking for its own
country. For uncounted, years, the English
“conventional design”' sat heavily on the
chest of the local designer. Occasionally, the
waratah or wattle chanced across the trail of
■this unimaginative craftswoman, but it was
generally “conventionalised” into a mediaeval
suggestion of Australian flora. On Novem-
ber 20 the Women’s Handicrafts’ Society
will open its first extensive exhibition of
women's work—Australian designs material-
ised on wood, metal, leather and other lux-
uries of life. A loan parade of embroidery,
old lace and miniatures will be a fancy
trimming to this kangaroo and emu party.
The “Something Australian” show is cun-
ningly arranged to catch the Christmas mail
to Fogland. St. James's Hall will be the
place. The Cullen lady will rip it open with
some handy weapon.
Chapell and Co. forward a large library of
musical items—chiefly ballads. After part-
ing this collection in the middle, and chop-
ping off a few fragments, I suggest that when
your mood is mixed with twilight and senti-
ment, you will like the gentle lilt of Mon-
tag;ue Phillips’ setting to “Flowers of a
Fairer World.” Dorothy Forster’s plaintive
melody twines round “Margaret,” which is
full of emotion and almond blossoms.
Esther Kahn’s clever trick of chasing new
melodies through her grey matter, till she
runs them to earth—this time in Beale and
Co.’s publishing department—seldom takes
more than one rest bar. “Awake, my Love,”
is the name of her last waltz song, which
swings into step with pleasant rhythm.
Wrenn Sutton, who believes in greeting the
rosy morn when the early bird is eating the
4 a.m. worm (or thereabouts), supplies the
words. Wasn’t it Talmage who said that
the worm who rose from his bed before the
day was properly aired deserved to be eaten.
The Australian Boy Scout not only bran-
dishes naked broom-handles and other dan-
gerous weapons, in red-brick suburbs, but lie
has his photo taken as a frontispiece for
local throstle warbles. P. Jeff Wallace is
responsible for a March song, “At the Na-
tion’s Call,” which promises, on behalf of the
Juvenile Sprout, that he’ll be “alert and
gritty” when there’s trouble hanging round
this coast-liue.
A curtain-raiser called “The Littlest Girl”
is served up before the arrival of “Jimmy
Valentine” on the lioyal stage. Sydney
theatre-goers are not so late over their even-
ing meal as Londoners, and so don’t find the
same use. for a playlet before the play.
While Winter Hall, as the Littlest Girl’s
parent, wept over the sleeves of his grey-
dressing-gown into a white handkerchief, the
other evening, last arrivals, noisy and un-
ashamed, stamped into stalls and dress
circle. Will Desmond, who looked like an
undertaker’s mute, in the dismal role of
well-meaning friend, churned through his
final platitudes (which w r ere addressed to
the subdued sobs of Winter Hall), while the
stalls trampled on his emotion, and the gal-
lery crackled paper-bags. The only person
who seemed to get any satisfaction out of the
actlet was the Littlest Girl herself. This
morsel of white muslin, spread out on the
sofa by the interfering friend, carefully
opened, one eye from time to time (being
otherwise in a deep sleep), and surveyed the
stalls with the air of an unprejudiced wit-
ness.
Susie Vaughan, as one of the Gate of
Hope, or Prisoners’ Prop Society, wears a
well-made gown, that touches a responsive
chord as matter in the right place. This is
in Act I. of “Alias Jimmy Valentine.” But
the chord is lost, or mislaid, when the very
thin Gate of Hope lady squirms across the
stage in an eelskin drape that would drive
some desperate men to jump on its fish-tail
train. However, the forger—clad in black
and white stripes (Sing Sing prison uni-
form),, goes on forging; the locksmith (un-
authorised version) goes on opening a patent
lock with a mere hairpin ; and Jimmy Val-
entine (also in magpie stripes) wins the
heart of Dorothy Dix, who is the heroine
Rose Lane. This drawing-room perform-
ance of their star tricks by inmates of Sing
Sing Hostel, for the benefit of the Gate of
Hope ladies, is an original idea. It is not
likely to be snapped up for local use by Syd-
ney’s Prisoners’ Aid Society.
The air resounds with pupils’ concerts,
which strew this city with the murdered re-
mains of high C’s. The pupils are slowly
breaking up—for Christmas, and prefer to
go to pieces on the Melba trill.
Marie Corelli’s new book, “The Life Ever-
lasting” (Dymock’s) is full of psychic phe-
nomena, and embroiders several hints that
women will slowly digest at curling time,
concerning the folly of growing old. To hold
youth, as desired by Faust, or Lady Fred-
erick, one needs no colored lights, sulphur,
horned accomplice,, or rouge pots. All that
is required is 436 pages of instructions,
written by one of the most versatile scrib-
blers of our sex. If Marie, in her prologue,
is inclined to rate herself as only second to
the Almighty, and smites the public for
being too big a fool to understand previous
Corelli attempts to illuminate its mental
darkness, the average woman, anyhow, can
bear this blow with meekness. She can
even heave a reluctant laurel-leaf at one of
her sex whose brains bring her an income
of £BOOO or £lO,OOO a year, because it isn’t
as easy as it looks to turn ink into cash at
those figures. “The Life Everlasting” gives '
a good many tips, which the fashionable
dame might find as useful as face massage.
If they help any of Eve’s daughters to keep
off the serpent, Old Time, for an hour or
two, then the angelic heroine (Marie Cor-
elli) will not have suffered in vain.
The “Page Millions,” which made some
excitement in Sydney a few years ago, were
again mentioned in an English law court
last week. It was one of those stereotyped
romances re a huge fortune that was just
left lying about for generations as huge for-
tunes so often are in dreams, and about the
rightful owner who suddenly woke up. A
company was formed to work the claim or
recover the sunken treasure, but it wound
up in disgust three years ago. I was told
that it had three reasons for its disgust: (1)
that it couldn’t prove the claimant’s pedigree ;
(2) that the estate wasn’t lying about loose
at all, but had been left by will in the long,
long ago to parties now dead, and had been
cut up and sold and re-sold and built upon till
it was almost as unrecognisable as Pontius
Pilate’s footmark; (3) that it never was the
huge estate it was cracked up to be.
But the claimant apparently reckons he can
get over these difficulties, for the matter is
still before the courts.
For the Durbar, John Bull and his clothes
are to be heavily blue-pencilled by the Secre-
tary of State for India. This bigwig inti-
mates that all persons who can raise a uni-
form for the Delhi and Calcutta royal curry
parties had better do so—or remain un-
curried. Any males who have no reasonable
excuse for placarding their bodies with red,
blue or gold stripes, can take refuge in the
calm haven of knee-breeches and silk stock-
ings. No gentleman is expected to go to his
bath in full Court dress. These command-
ments apply only to “English gentlemen pre-
sent at the Durbar.” The Australian who
strikes the big Indian spangle with a coo-ee
and a boomerang will be considered suffici-
ently clothed, and may boil his billy with
impunity in the Chandni Chauk. As a visi-
tor, he is a person of no official importance.
Eastwell Park, the Kentish house in which
the popular ex-G.-G. Northcote died, the
other day, belongs to the ancient-storied-urn
type of country seat. Many persons of more
or less note have sat down in Eastwell Park,
including the thrifty Alfred in his Duke of
Edinburgh days. And that is something to
the place’s credit, for Alfred never sat down
more than he could help, for fear of wearing
out his coat-tail.
A globe-trotting Sydney-sider, who hung
up his hat in Shanghai for a few weeks, tells
me a horrid tale of Chinese walls decorated
with Chinese pigtails, and other hairy ap-
pendages, waiting to be bought by the passer-
by. On top of this tale comes a careful line
in a London paper. “Hair merchants seem
reluctant to disclose what they consider
trade secrets.” As a matter of fact, Ger-
many and Brittany are always mentioned in
any interview with a thatch buyer. Delight-
ful pictures of the clean Teuton maiden de-
livering up her flaxen locks to the shearer,
or the healthy Breton damsel singing as
she lopped off her silky raven tresses, used
to soothe the British female breast. But
the alleged leprous Chinese wig, which is
said to have caused the tragic, illness of an
English girl who wore if at a fancy-dress
ball, makes one wonder and ponder. Where
does the Shanghai pigtail on the wall go to.
when it embarks on a sea voyage? Does it
ever re-incarnate at Pott’s Point?
Yours until the sun grows cold,
VANDORIAN.


rfS?
i Irr
I f! a m
ff it
' v i;
•> : S'i
u
.T;'-
iMllr
fc-s&fcA B .* *•": '•
H V"V
'c;.
Wm
,s*m
mmSmmmm
II
» ;
as
V. £ <
i
A 't
fc'WSP^l
. Xl, r „ -
■• i *• •• -• ''•••■
ill
g
1
sSss
A:^?t
-Wi3lSom
&\
& i
\\ $MMO£§
•^.•taV , }<^<VV**SauSw'rx
Mis
%'iffl
t| • /-/“■ '.'.v
l
| 'JlSß&Gjiifc?-'-
Y Vy %&T
m
\sM
a
1 > ffi
If
sfc?§
UJ
1
HI
m
te
m
M
m
.
wmmk
» ivS^:#
' -m mm
5
'■mi
mm
’«g
HI
■
Hi
St
i Mm
r&
ranf
mi;
<KJ
•fsi'fPii
•’: ■■i’Mx- *• i ' •..'. ••'k* S • f
5 M
m m
V >
IlSlilt?
in
&5
sSp=«#
s&i
%k
m
IMI
SHI
Mi
Mi
\
:j Ui 1
$ RH {> ’ » •>•;; =-:• -v l{ l Ixm fißr *.*.&s. 1
I ; ! ; - ; } >, ! ■• ; : ■.
Ik
M
fill
Ns
m
:■■ :-t;
K
wk
mu
m
i
T .
j?l;
If
Iffl
mm
M/.if’y
m
m*
SM
■&S>£
wm
[•*?
c-- : >-
‘- -
u g- m;m
<T <CE-^^r’Ys
-yy;...
O
fill
■vvj
m
• v«?^
:mw
*4ptofflBM!*
tit nr'”’
eXv
A
51*
v
- :-
\
SBSi
H
a ®
■ s®
Is
«
1
\-m
’ /•%
■v
y-3
:oi
s ’>) *i W
WoJfiS£ik
Wm
},MI
2*
■:a
i
riE®
II
4
>
li
Cjilig
bM
Kjo' V JA >>,r
W'SM.
&*gse
»
Pi
; fe
tf|
w:,m
4^
iOV- ’
0&,?\
m
srsgw
;'-XS ! V' .'l' : -’ IJ '
7ko*i:-O$2OZ
mm,
if"
MM
m
-■:.f
4-0 y
s^- ;
Sri
i«Sa
few
SiiS
Wf-
• ’/> -J^>-
■V'-"
ii
,/i-
-i»
3 k
H
■ '!s*■,?■ Kw ’&/{ >■'&■ ■'■ - ■ ..'i'r [ ■/'* ■■■ •'•>:/• f..'" ,j ; r '
i. "■xL.'f
*w
g, . ,
WM
>■*?
«S*s
s^Sss
SSfi
m
9 .I^*4
Sp
LAi
•f'-'V*
COBRA FLOOR POLISH is as
good as COBRA BOOT POLISH.
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Polishes the
Floorcloth, too.
Till you say,
‘ For goodness sake
It’s like walking
On a lake I ”
Cobra Polish
j i
Always use
For the floorcloth,
Boots and shoes :
And this maxim
Think upon :
‘ Chunder puts the
Polish on 1 ”


m,m.
THAT COOL, REFRESHING DRINK.
Farmers Yacwim Flasks
For Business, Travelling, Picnicking, or for Baby’s Food
at night, one of FARMER’S VACUUM FLASKS is practi-
cally indispensable. It will keep liquids hot for 24 hours or
icy cold for 72 hours. Nickel-Plated top and bottom, Leather-
ette covered body, suitable for taking hot liquids.
Prices: PINT SIZES, 7/6 ; QUART SIZES, 14/6.
Write for FARMER'S CHRISTMAS CATALOGUE,
containing Present Suggestions for Everybody.
Sent Post Free on request.
FARMER’S,
Pitt, Market and
George Streets,
SYDNEY.
s eg
on
r
v
x
dOlNfld
TRY A
" DUNLOP -
AND SEE THE
DIFFERENCE !
ALL
LEADING
SPORTS
DEPOTS
E
will improve
your play—their
perfect balance
ensures it.
ocked in "Orange Spot,
' Blue Spot " I heavy}, or
" Dunlop Junior. *
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
All States and N.Z.
DUNLOP
GHRDENf 1
HOSE
Xi
ii
/Pf
X
X-
*^4
JHC
THIS HOSE
is the Finest that
you can obtain.
Its quality ensures
long wear, and
its Construction
no kinking or
bursting.
The fact that more “ Dunlop”
Hose is sold in Australasia
than any other brand speaks
volumes for its Quality and
Durability. ONLY ACCEPT
“DUNLOP" BRANDS.
Sample Sectioo on Application.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
Melbourne. Sydney. Adelaide,
Perth. Brisbane. Welling-ton
and Christchurch. N.Z.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, November 13, 1911.
My Dear Yarrie, —
A hot sun, a cool breeze, some horses, and
130,000 people about sums up the Cup of
1911. It was a crush to remember. The
vice-regal people had a roomy box, and a
pathway made for their distinguished feet;
but all else were squeezed as sardines would
be if they were put up in barrels, instead of
in nice, little, family-party tins. Big, green
Flemington is growing too small for the an-
nual lunacy.
With the elevated was Melba, who covered
an adorable “lingerie” frock by a white
cloak, with black satin collar and revers.
Itace coats are delectable things. To every
race meeting of the week, the Denman lady
brought a ravishing garment of black mar-
quisette, with fluffy shoulder frills as top-
dressing for her gowns. On Cup Day, a
black velvet bow topped the white tulle of
her hat. The Fuller lady wore a blue enam-
elled butterfly, and was otherwise clad in
grey. G.-G. Denman nursed his injured polo
arm in a black sling, and Governors Fuller
and Bosanquet beamed in concert, having,
presumably, backed the winner.
The crowd was a good-natured one; but, in
the big crushes, some of the flimsy dresses
suffered severely. Furtive picnics ruined the
usual formal aspect of a Flemington big day.
The people who would as soon eat bananas
from their skins in Collins-street as tear
food on Flemington grandstand, were scan-
dalised when they observed women nibbling
sandwiches extracted from baskets, while
perspiring menfolk handed along thick,
splashy cups of tea, valorously dredged from
the swarming refreshmentery. The cool and
shady Maribyrnong stand offered seating ac-
commodation up to quite two hours before
the race of the day; but the grandstand
proper was full up at 11 o’clock.
The sporting Grices were in high feather.
Claude Grice rode his own horse (Lord
Emms) in the Cup Steeplechase, and won
from end to end. The proud young amateur
must feel positively professional now, seeing
that he had the audacity to get fined a
sovereign for disobedience at the post. Sor-
row smote the family on Saturday, however,
when its gallant representative was put
down heavily in the Victoria ’Chase. Lord
Emms looked all over a winner, when he
fell at the second-last fence. The rider had
to be taken to a hospital, and the steed—of
all curious mi she ns —-broke its tail.
Oaks Day spells glad rags, and sufficient
space to trail them in. There was a superb
show of millinery this year at the special
clothes race meeting; but Mrs. Victor Lan-
sell led the field by at least two counters and
a showroom, tier dress consisted of a fine
black net, sprinkled with steel beads over
a heavenly blue background. The hat was
black, and the outfit was completed by blue
shoes and stockings. Mrs. Victor is the wife
of one of the Bendigo Lansell sons. Tall,
dark, and on the slender side, she carries
herself with a grace that does the under-
mined city proud. The Clarke lady, who is
usually the most stared-at, was left in the
shade this time. Still, she was a gracious
spectacle in purple and cream, with purple
hat and shoes. Melba looked slim and ele-
gant in black.
Kirby, the lucky owner of The Parisian, is
a South Australian. His father was one of
Victoria’s pioneer landlords, and, in conjunc-
tion with one of his sons (president of the
Bendigo Turf Club), the old identity wrote
a book on “Early Australia.” Mrs. “Paris-
ian” Kirby was Miss Elizabeth Crow, of
Mingbool station. The pair still keep the
place up as the home station, though Kirby
has just bought Mount Koroit, Coleraine.
The wife brought bushels of beans to her
lucky lord. She is one of the wealthiest
women (on her own) in the Commonwealth.
Her people were amongst the earliest settlers
in the Mount Gambier district (S.A.), and
have always been horse lovers.
Steeplechase Day, which ends the great
Spring gallop, and usually peters down to a
mere man’s outing, was this year bright with
chiffons. The two Government House parties
kept the course to the finish, and made a
big patch of gay frocking in the centre of the
stand. Lady Fuller wore lilac in her hat.
Mrs. Arthur Staughton, looking like a cool
strawberry ice in pink and white, broke rest-
cure bounds in the hope of seeing Misspent
have a win. Aide Captain Nutting, with
white-spatted feet, escorted Mrs. Knight
Mollison Kelly about the lawn. The fair
Sydneyite was dressed in vivid pink satin,
draped with white lace and a hat with a
wide-meshed net veil. Rupert Clarke kept
cool in the shadow of his wife’s lettuce
green parasol. Her dress was the same
cool shade, with two steel ropes at the neck.
A hat with black ospreys completed a sty-
lish outfit. Mrs. Captain Hall, sporting a
bird of paradise on the summit of her cos-
tume, yarned with sister Mrs. Waugh, from
Sydneyside. Together they supplied a good
color duet in blues and greens. The whole
caravan of governing folk finished the carni-
val with a gala night at “Faust.” Boxes
could not contain the big party; so they
flashed and sparkled expensively in the cen-
tre of the circle.
The G.-G. ball was gorgeously staged.
Ropes of red electrics strung along the foun-
tain terrace gave a house-atire effect to the
Denham domicile. Purple and silver foot-
men helped the motors to disgorge the guests
as they whirred up to the side porch, and
pomp and circumstance opened the proceed-
ings. Ceremony, to be sure, usually kills
the spirit of frivol at a Government House
dance; but, after the solemn perpetration
of the official square dance, official etiquette
reefed its sails, and the gods trod the mazy
measure like mere humans. The youthful
spirit of the house party seemed to rule the
festival, and every dance was a waltz. The
entry was an imposing sight. Lord Dick,
with ’em all on, and bearing his wand of
office, guided the steps of the vice-regals.
The G.-G., with a black eye and an empty
coat sleeve, was carefully placed in an in-
valid pose on the blue velvet throne. Mad-
den, C. J., very beautiful in silk stockings, sat
out the first dance with him; after which
Mrs. W. M. Hughes, in white silk and eye-
glasses, talked to him of the weather and
other matters. The Denman lady, under-
neath a coronet of fat pearls and diamonds,
sported a tunic such as knights of old wore
over their armor. It was white, crusted
with brilliants, and covered a blue-black
satin dress. The Fuller lady had sea shells
and pearls dripping from her shell-pink
gown; and the Barttelot lady was in white.
Miss Phipps was sombrely gowned in black,
and wore big gold earrings; her hair, roughly
done, completed a gipsy-like effect. There
were some gorgeous masculine garments
prancing about in the official set. Admiral
King-llall was heavily laced with bullion;
Admiral Creswell, also, was tied and bound
with much glittering cord; Major Quilter
had a scarlet belt to mark his waist line ;
and the gallant Awdry submitted himself to
observation in a kilt.
Melba, of course, wore a dream of a gown.
It was twilight blue, in many filmy layers,
and drooped off her shoulders (as Fashion
insists) with sapphires in the embroidery.
Pier coronet of turquoises matched a collar
of turquoise and diamond. She wrapped
a scrap of tulle round her valuable throat
after each dance.
The debutantes (and there were some
charming buds amongst them) had
the time of their lives. They flung
their bouquets to their chaperones and
danced .joyously till two in the morning. Some
notable competitors in the jewellery display
hailed from country centres and the other
States. A dazzling radiance from a blue
velvet couch was discovered to be the Ben-
digo Lansell diamonds, supported by Mrs.
Lansell.
The Powerful screened off its broad deck
with red bunting on Wednesday of last week,
and sbnt out jolly little tenders to bring off
cargoes of the Very Best people to its marine
At Home. Visitors were received and passed
along to Admiral King-Hall on the upper
deck, by at least four officers. One, with
a telescope under his arm, welcomed the ar-
riving launches, and carefully watched the
shore folk clamber up the ship’s, side. An-
other shooed the climbers towards the next
flight of steps. A third brought them safely
within sight of their host. The fourth
trumpeted the names into the boss mariner’s
ear.
Lady Fuller, clad in a butter-colored gown,
arrived by a special launch with his Ex.,
whose spotted butterfly tie seemed to mock
the formality of his frock coat. The Bosan-
quets followed, with a cherry-pink daughter.
The Gaud Mayor (who is beginning a secohd
term of office) came along with his Gaudess.
Mrs. Cresswell and Mrs. Kirkpatrick fluttered
about the tea party on the lower deck. Mrs.
Alfred Deakin brought a daughter in fluffy
frocking. Singer Cisneros, in a blue sailor
dress, strode about-with her Count, Mrs.
Pearce chatted withßossi, of the opera
co. ; and Mrs. Irene Marks Vivers, back
from her long Fogging, looked the picture of
health in a black dress edged with purple.
The hat of Mrs. Arbitration Higgins intro-
duced some bright paddy green into the
gathering. When the serious and heavy-
footed brigade went downstairs for tea and
other restoratives, the frivolous took the op-
portunity to glide into a waltz, for the
cruiser’s band all the time was playing de-
lightful two-step music.
Two Government House garden parties
had the bad luck to select north wind days.
The Fullers’ spree, at Malvern, on Monday
of Race Week, fared worse. It was hard
luck, for the washing out of the moonlight
fixture was enough disappointment for one
season. The afternoon strawberry rush
battled hopelessly to a finish against a de-
vastating furnace blast. Four thousand
people trotted along to be roasted. They
arrived practically in one drove, and, whilst
waiting to be pumphandled, got banked up
yards deep outside the marquee that shel-
tered the hosting pair. Before a quarter of
the waiting crowd had been initiated, the
State Excellencies had to make a break for
the house to welcome the arriving G.-G.
party. Eventually, when the last of the
flock got through, they found the earlier
sheep lined up against the food and drink.
Something to drink seemed to be the only
thing desired by the steaming guests.
On Friday, the G.-G. lawn function af-
forded more shelter to the invited. The hand-
shaking was got through on the terrace,
where the fountain plays. Cool drawing-
rooms offered resting places on two sides,
and a shrubbery on the third. On the fourth
side was the long ballroom, with tinkling
glasses of iced liquids and purple flunkeys
to administer them.
The Denman lady, standing in the shade
against the grey fountain and green trees,
wore an elaborate dress of white and silver,
which had satin, lace and tulle in its com-
position, and a wonderful lace fichu. Her
hat was purple silk, and had a weeping
plume. The Fuller lady’s gown was made of
layers of mauve and bright blue ninon over a
peach-pink foundation. The Artillery band
brayed bravely in the middle of the lawn;
but few women ventured into the furnace
wind to give tneir Oaks Day dresses a pro-
per second airing.
The brides of the season flocked to the
Cup. Mrs. Brett rushed back from Sydney,
despite the fact that her house was still
infested with our reptile contemporary, the
paperhanger, and aired a pretty lace dress
with a pink sash. Mrs. Asher Thompson, a
handsome Melbourne girl who was annexed
by a Sydney man, some moons ago, also Hew
over with her husband, and showed some ele-
gant plumage at the horse feast.
Young Grantham and his bride got back
for Cup week. They petrolled out to the
races each, day, with white bride roses in the
silver vases of the car. He wore his brand-
new belltopper, and she a hat trimmed with
marabout.
A par. in last week’s Chatter should have
said that Miss Davenport, the doctor’s
daughter, goes with Mrs. Spencer and her
two daughters for a year’s trip to Europe,
leaving by the Otranto, on December 18.
About the same date, Professor Spencer and
a man party leave for a look at tlie North-
ern Territory.
Mrs. Geoffrey Age Syme, who recently re-
turned from a Fogland jaunt, and an inspec-
tion of her own people, fluttered round dur-
ing Cup week in some pretty frocks. She
sported a greeny brocade with blue chiffon,
on Cup night, at the opera. At the ball, the
following night, she scored heavily with a
beautiful lace gown and diamond necklace.
Widower Septimus Miller is shortly to
wed with Muriel, daughter of ex-banker
Henderson, who resides at the superior end
of Chapel-street. At Flemington, last
week, the pair shared congratulations. The
future Mrs. Septimus is sister to the late
Mrs. Harry Madden, of the Chief Justice
clan.
Passed out suddenly, at Bmokong station,
N.S.W., ex-squatter Charles Clapperton, the
winter of whose life was darkened by the
loss of his two pretty young daughters. The
girls were drowned at Kentucky station, the
elder in trying to save a friend who was
bathing in the river with her, and the
younger in a gallant attempt to rescue the
sinking pair.
Miss Dita Kerr, whose engagement to
Mr. Edgar Cohen was mentioned in Sydney
last week, is one of a trio of beautiful girl
cousins. One is Miss Marjorie Lord, of
Sydney, and the other Miss Zana Hope
Morris, of the Fairfield Morris clan.
Walter Kirby buried his mother last week,
and now that the filial tie is broken which
hitched him to his homeland, the gentle tenor
warbler will be thinking of his long-delayed
return to foggy Britain. The desire to see
his mother again was the main reason for
Walter’s coming to Australia last year with
Mary Coaly. Their concerts were an un-
accountable, failure, and the plump little
soprano lost no time in getting back to the
Cold Country, where she ranks as a some-
body among ballad singers and a personage
iff oratorio work. But Kirby, finding his
aged mother in a hopeless state of health,
stayed, on all this long time. His many
friends.jare bound to arrange a send-off con-
cert for the dulcet-toned tenor, who has
lunched with a king and tea’d with duch-
esses. Meanwhile, they have secured him
for the forthcoming concert in aid of Lady
Dudley’s Bush Nursing fund.
The small Peterson girl who plays a flute
in Mamma’s orchestra, put up her two thick
pigtails for the Debutante Stakes, and came
out at the Government House ball which
rolled in the wake of the Cup.
From my Adelaide correspondent:—
Suffragette Vida Goldstein’s Non-Party Associa-
tion —one of whose objects is to purify and uplift
Parliament by filling it with females—is going ex-
tremely strong here. Treasurer Crawford Vaughan’s
wife is a member, and where she pushes something
simply has to move. She has just returned from
Melbourne, with the joyous news that women jurors
and J’s.P. are to materialise shortly. Let -not the
law-breaker chortle unduly on this score, however.
The sweet little thing with the dreamy blue eyes
and the ultimate shriek in hats will probably be as
relentless with the drunk and disorderly citizen as
any plain, dusty old male.
The Esperanto conference is over, and the Bible
Society people have folded up their Testaments and
silently stolen away. Chief Justice Way and his lady
entertained the Bible enthusiasts considerably dur-
ing their stay here, and on Saturday, Director Ryan,
of the Tourist Bureau, personally conducted several
score of them to Morialta and Marble Hill.
The English team is at the South Australian, and the
local interest taken in its members is intense, though
subdued. The young men journeyed to the Oval the
moment they were safely off the mail-boat, and were
speedily engulfed by old and would-be acquaintances.
Our latest acquisition is a new scoring-board, which
is supposed to be a marvel of mechanical ingenuity,
and which, like most useful things, doesn’t rup to
looks. Alack! that its first duty should have heen
to record a mammoth score by the invaders, and a
most miserable response by our gallant defenders.
The true blue, all-wool Sou’stralian cricket maniac,
who watched it at work while Warner and Foster
were at the wickets, was fain almost to wish that it
had never been invented.
On Saturday, the Royal Yacht Squadron processed
in the wake of Commodore Leonard Bakewell’s craft,
landed on Torrens Island and had tea, thus intimat-
ing to all concerned that the season for being blown
about the face of the waters, in the name of Sport,
had officially started.
Since it acquired electric trams, Marryatville has
been growing as rapidly as a patent food baby. It
celebrated on Saturday afternoon, by opening for it-
self a bowling green. The inevitable Edwin Smith
made the indispensable speech before the usual sort
of audience. The customary libation of tea was
then poured by President and Mrs. McDiarmid, and
the gathering dispersed. A pleasing function, even
if it was not what one might term a staggeringly
original one.
The Bosanquets got back from their brief, visit to
Melbourne on Friday morning. Their next move will
be on Marble Hill. There all is peace. The social
climber is baffled by its remoteness from anywhere,
and the patriotically emotional alderman is unable
to get within cringing distance. Now that the
Bakers’ old home (Morialta) is shut up, about the
only -near neighbors are the ’possums.
A brace of lady lecturers has descended on us.
Mrs. Robert Webster is seeking to enlighten our
ignorance on Italian and Flemish Art, and Miss
Marv Hall unfolds a more or less harrowing tale of
her expedition from Cape to Cairo.
The H. B. Irving Co. is doing well; in fact, the
reverberations of its boom have been heard as far
afield as Largs Bay, to the annoyance of the local
fisherman, whose only hope of success at his inter-
minable sport lies in complete silence.
The co. contains an Adelaide girl, Maude Plunkett,
who is being duly feted by her proud relatives when
duty grants her a spare hour or so. Of course, the
Irvings have been rushed. Mrs. Percival Stow—her
aboriginal stories carry the name Langloh Parker—
stood Mrs. H.B. morning tea t’other day at the
Queen Adelaide Club. In fact, one way and another,
enough tea has been spilt lately, in honor of this
gifted pair, to float a picture-show company.
On Tuesday afternoon, the University Shakspeare
Society extended the glad mitt of culture to the
visitors. Professor Darnley Naylor was in the chair,
and after some preliminary oratorical skirmishing,
H.B. rose to speak. His discourse had reference
mostly to the perennially mysterious and under-
takerish royalty of Elsinore, and when he had finished
his hearers agreed that Hamlet was something less
of a hopeless enigma in their eyes than before.
Another motor accident. This time it was no
mere aggregation of mummers, but Professor Angus,
one time Director of Agriculture, who was flung
violently to earth, and picked up in an
unconscious condition. The Professor, on his
motor-bike, collided with Mr. Whallin’s car. It
seems that the bike was rounding a comer as the
car approached from the opposite direction, and
neither was able to get out of the other’s way in
time.
Lord and Lady Chelmsford passed through Ade-
laide on Saturday, en route for the sylvan delights
of Broken Hill. They both looked bland and cheer-
ful. Captain Oswald Watt, the only military air-
man that Australia' has yet evolved, was a passenger
on the same Moldavia that brought the Chelmsfords.
Sincerely yours,
JOHANNA.


.. '.iA.
K 1 J
&
■ kW
i
." ;.. ' ;;
• .
s ‘. vi a- ' -■ ’?,
.:••• : :rMv^
m#
Nt,-, /
. ■
*
• ■■' IF
k '" .. a;-
A.
liL
imt
' ' M
y
><, i
im
'. 'a,
0
LVi
■i
f IS S:
■ Cf.
.........
;A ; ■
r-. . .
'
.
, • I
V
• ' ■ ■
' ■
m
§H
m
m
It
■
SCHWEPPE
■
m m
% ■ ” ' '■ * ’ , •
A- ■ : -
JQUys SH
rn-mx
-IH fmeyim J M«-»; Watm to
' I!// *«» -tv*. KMd«
«£> ? .«#-** n« Kif<h Qf vßi
I'head m Vl *’ '•' ■ n< * <*c o
| ; omct.49.FWLL MfIUUjOK
*•' i
Made from Fresh Lemons.
Mixed with Schweppes* Soda Water or Lithia Water,
maKes a most Delightful and Refreshing DrinK. -•
Purveyors of Mineral Waters to His Majesty the King.
Head Office : 49 Pall Mall, London.
Agencies throughout
ttie World.
99
THE NEW DRINK.
Palatable and Refreshing. Made from the Best
Jamaica Sarsaparilla Root A Blood Purifier.
BOTTLED by SCHWEPPES LTD.


nvbnv
Your hoping for a good old
trip at Xmas to refresh you,
but you needn't wait till then—try some
WATSON’S NO. 10 WHISKY.
WaotM
Ifflt
RHEUMATIC PAINS
Not due to Cold, Wet Weather,
The Trouble is Rooted
• in the Blood.
Many people believe that the twinges and
tortures of Rheumatism are due to cold,
damp or wet weather, and treat themselves
by rubbing with liniments and lotions. This
is a serious mistake, aud one which allows
the disease to progress to such an extent
that it is often impossible to get it out of the
system. Rheumatism comes from poisonous
acid in the blood, and it must be cured
through the blood. All the liniments and
rubbing, and so-called electrical treatment
in the world will not cure Itheumatism.
This a medical truth which every sufferer
from this excruciating trouble should know.
Rheumatism can only be cured by driving
the poisonous acid out of the blood, and en-
riching and purifying it. No other medicine
will do this so speedily and surely as Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills. They actually make
the new, rich, red blood, which drives out
the poisonous acid, and builds up the sys-
tem, and makes the sufferer well and strong.
It is because they do this that Dr. Williams
Pink Pills have cured thousands of cases of
Rheumatism after all other treatment had
failed.
“About 11 years ago I found that I was
getting Rheumatism. It came on in the
back at first,” said Mr. J. W. Underwood,
the well-known and respected resident living
on Morrison Road, off Lindsley Street.
Gladesville, Sydney. “I thought to get rid
of the pain with the usual rubbing lotions,
but I found instead that the pain spread to
the left hip, and then went all over me until
it had me practically paralysed. I could
not move myself—I was more helpless than
a child confined to bed, day in and day out.
In fact for five months I was bed-ridden,
and could only move when I was helped or
lifted out. Two doctors told me that I had
Rheumatism, and gave me various medi-
cines, but at the most I only gained tem-
porary relief. Strange to say, the only
parts that swelled were my knees. At night
I could not sleep, and at last the pain was
so excruciating that the doctors gave me
Morphia —and the only relief I got was
from this. I blame droving in Queensland,
when I had to be out in all sorts of weathei.
for starting the complaint, and I might say
I tried everything one could mention, try-
ing to get rid of the Rheumatism, but 1
still suffered. When I was not crippled in
bed with the pain I could only get about on
crutches, but I was so weak that even these
were of no use to me at times, and otten i
had to rely on those at home to help me
about the 'house. After about nine months
of this terrible suffering, a lady at Galston
advised me to try Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills,
as she had derived great benefit fiom them
herself. I had no faith in them, but I
thought I might as well see what they would
do for me, and I am thankful to say the.
proved invaluable to me, for they cured m
of every ache and pain, and now 1 ami as
active and as nimble as anyone could wish.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are sold by
chemists and storekeepers, or sent by man
on receipt of price, 2s. 9d. per box. si.
boxes 15s. 3d. by the Dr. Williams Medicine
Co. of Australasia, Ltd.
MptOrß
D e ny e r’s
Special Elas-
tic Truss per-
mits physical
work or sport
in safety and
comfort. No
irritating
springs. We
fit you exact-
ly. Call or
DCNYER
©
Single, 17/6;
Double, 22/6.
Others from 3/6
write. Abdominal Belts for all needs. Experienced
Lady in Attendance. .
DENYER BROS., Truss & Abdominal Beit MaKers,
281 GEORGE ST. (opp. Hunter St,), SYDNEI._
POLITICAL
POINTS
In all the discussions re the totalisator as
against the bookmaker, there is this fact
to be remembered: The advocates of the tote
must be honest, because the machine has no
funds with which to bribe anybody. The
anti-tote crowd may be honest, but as the
bookmaking Clan has plenty of funds for
bribery purposes, the chances are that a
good part of it isn’t.
The loss of the late E. L. Batchelor’s seat
(Boothby, S.A.), to the “Liberals,” is a sur-
prise. In 1903, there were 10,577 votes
polled, and Batchelor won by a majority of
973. He was unopposed in 1906. In 1910,
15,332 votes were polled, and Batchelor’s ma-
jority was 4240 —a far bigger poll and a far
bigger Labor majority. Last week, at a
mere by-election, the votes numbered no less
than 1,8,684, and Labor candidate J. Jelley
lost by 2628. Well, probably, Jelley wasn’t
Batchelor.
Astounding piece of information revealed
to the- House of Representatives by John
Forrest: —
Lights, and beacons are to assist shipping, and to
protect those who travel on the sea.
Hitherto, it had been generally understood
that thfey were a species of long, flying beer
that climbed trees.
The C. S. R. Co. is quite shameless. On
top of its intimation of a profit of
£210,000 for the half-year, came the an-
nouncement of a rise of 10s. per ton in the
price of sugar. But what else can you ex-
pect? Didn’t Australia say six months ago
that it didn’t want its Commonwealth Gov-
ernment to have power to control mono-
polies?
Barbed wire is an important ingredient of
modern war, and the Commonwealth should
think furiously about putting another storey
or two on the present duty of 15 per cent,
against foreign, and 10 per cent, against
British goods. When the now-superseded
Dago General Caneva fell back at Tripoli,
he wanted barbed wire as badly as he wanted
bullets to check the volcanic dust-fiends from
the desert. After the abandonment of the
outer works, the cable says that the army set
to work “feverishly” at making entangle-
ments. The prospective invader has already
satisfied himself, by reading our Immigra-
tion Bureau literature, that Australia is a
land flowing with cowjuice and bee syrup.
But it may make him sit down and think
seriously if his Intelligence Department in-
forms him that it is also sown with cordite
and metal thorns, and that big Aus-
tralian factories are working overtime mak-
ing more iron brambles.
In view of the pestilence which has struck
the Italian army at Tripoli, every future
general should gum this maxim in his hat:
“When the weather is hot, never massacre
more people than you can bury! ’
In his Budget speech, Andrew Fisher
affirmed that land values hadn t fallen, in
spite of the land-tax that was going to be so
disastrous; and when there were puny
wheezes of dissent, Fisher produced State
official reports confirming what he had said
except as to Queensland. If the value of the
big estate hasn’t been affected, then there is
something wrong with the size of the tax ;
but, as an. obvious matter of fact, the value
has been affected —except for subdivision
purposes. And that, after all, is precisely
what the tax aimed at. It wanted to make
the big estate less profitable to hold in a
lump ; and the fact that all over the country
the big landlord is cutting up his territory
proves that it is doing its job. The other
fact that he is getting usually more in the
bulk for a score of 500-acre blocks than he
would have taken for the 10,000-acre sheep-
walk in one line proves, also, that the bar-
rackers for monopoly who talked about the
Labor party’s "spoliation and robbery,
merely blithered, as usual.
A TACTFUL TASK-MASTER.
A good word ought to be said for the way in
which the Commonwealth Government has been
pushing on matters relating to the Federal capital.
... Ministers have set themselves seriously to carry
out the compact entered into with New South Wales.
...We have never before had the opportunity of
deliberately creating a beautiful city, and it is un-
likely that we ever shall again. This is our hour ;
let us make the most of it.—S. M. Herald, quite
joyously.
“'Ave you got them bits of paling cut th' old
sheets of tin, Andy dear?”
“ Yes, gran'via! ”
“And plenty of old bagging and a few nails,
Andy dear?”
“Oh, yes, gran mama! ”
“Then run along now to the rubbish heap up
behind th’ fowl'ouse, an' show wot a clever
little man you CAN be; BUT MIND Y'
don't spill th' water.”
If the Victorian Labor party hadn’t the
’bus-missing habit, it would have made
“Cheap Gas” a battle cry during the Assem-
bly elections, especially as State Treasurer
Watt was busily evading his promise to in-
vestigate the metropolitam monopoly s affairs.
* be attitude of Watt showed that his Gov-
eminent was still too lory and Tired to
octopus, and this should have
afforded I rendergast a text for a sermon on
Labor party s mode of cheapening the
inflammable goods. He had his chance and
missed it.
The fact that a J.P. was lined, the other
dav, in Victoria on three charges of shoving
people into improper exercise of the postal
vote is one very good and solid reason why
that vote is being abolished. He was not
the first, nor the 20th, nor, perhaps, the
200th, who was found at the game. In fact,
it used to be quite a habit for large, over-
bearing honorary magistrates to call on flus-
tered fem.ales when their husbands were at
work, and rush them into filling up the
postal voting paper—filling it up on behalf
of the Tory candidate—-under the false pre-
fence that they (the flustered females) would,
be absent on polling day. There were even
stories of landlords getting votes in this
fashion under threats of ejection or increase
of rent. Pretty nearly all the Elossiedom
of two or three much-Flossied city streets is
said to have voted by post in this fashion
once, for fear of being driven away from the
centre of business.
The poor old S. M. Herald has been in
dreadful trouble over E'isher’s surplus.
When Wade and Waddell had a thing of
that kind, it was proof of a statesmanlike
handling of the finances. But Fisher is a
Labor person who can’t possibly be a
statesman, and can’t conceivably know any-
thing about finance; so the same thing in
his case is the result of a monstrous piling-
on of taxation, wherefore “those whom the
taxpayers of the Commonwealth have en-
trusted with the management of their func-
tions have extracted out of their pockets
£1,829,524 more than was really needed.”
A devil or a saint—the very impartial
Herald can prove you to be either accord-
ing to whether you are a Laborite or not.
Tne political Labor party's machine in
N. S. Wales is run by a conference consist-
ing of representatives of leagues and indus-
trial unions; and the industrial unions at
Broken Hill have broken out into a crusade
to abolish the leagues and hand the machine
over to the unions exclusively, on the
ground, mainly, that there actually are ein-
ployers in some of the leagues. The idea
seems to be that men should do their poli-
tical thinking with the corns on their hands
instead of the brains in their heads, and that
there shouldn’t be a place in the party for a
person like George Higinbotham, late Chief
Justice of Victoria, because he didn’t have
corned hands, xhe sooner the weird idea is
dropped the better.
About the most impassioned yarn Sydney
Telegraph has published this year was its
complaint of last Monday because the Aus-
tralian Parliament proposed to put the
naval college at Jervis Bay, only 87 miles
from Sydney, instead of at Port Hacking,
about 15 miles away. The extra 72 miles
from Sydney drove the paper to frenzy. Port
Hacking was recommended by an expert, but
many members thought the advantage of hav-
ing the college on Federal, instead of State,
land was worth considering. Taking into
account the way the Telegraph raved about
the failure to follow the expert’s advice, one
would never have imagined that another
N.S.W. expert recommended Monaro as the
best site for an Australian capital, and that
the same old paper lied and denounced and
shouted until it cot that advice set aside, and
the capital removed to an inferior spot al-
most at Sydney’s back door. Apparently,
when the expert advises bringing some public
institution close up to Sydney, his advice is
magnificent, but otherwise it isn’t worth con-
sidering.
It was an evidence of the fighting in-
capacity of the Victorian State Labor party
that it allowed its enemies to secure eight
seats without a contest. Victoria, languish-
ing under the incubus of its House of Rich
Landlords, is becoming a backwash State
like Tasmania. Its good ports are kept
closed, in the supposed interests of Mel-
bourne. A huge proportion of the State is
practically empty, because of the concentra-
tion of things at Melbourne. A number, of
the most fertile counties have been losing
population for years. Victoria is the great-
est exporter of population among the States.
It has the smallest rate of increase. It
lost one of its Federal members a year or
two ago, and it is now going to lose an-
other —a disgrace which has befallen no
other State. It is the one State which has
never had a Labor Government. Its Pre-
mier is the greatest loafer among Austra-
lian Premiers, and its Leader of the Oppo-
sition is about the most ordinary kind of
an Opposition leader that the country can
show. A backwashy place is Victoria these
days.
QUITE AN OLD JOKE.
Dr. Arthur innocently sought information from
the Premier on the matter last night. “Can the
House give any indication when the general election
will take place?” he asked... The Government, with
one accord, and in perfect unison, burst into loud
laughter.—S. M. Herald.
The Humorous High Jump.
In t'he Weary State election only Wil-
liamstown is getting its money’s worth. Here
a wisp of a man, named Packer, is opposing
Laborite Lemmon. Up to a few months ago
Packer was a useful, but harmless, assistant
in a hardware shop, and then he conceived
the idea of starting an anomaly called a Free
Workers’ Union. Toryism saw in Packer a
handy tool worth £5 a week ; and this rush to
affluence upset his balance, and he nomi-
nated as a coming legislator. Much as Willie
Watt hates Labor he wasn’t" ass enough to
select Packer as a Ministerial candidate, so
the egotistic gentleman has a hard row to
hoe, and many unpleasant egvs to dodge. And,
up to date, it seems that the more unpleasant
the egg the less able Packer is to dodge
it.
THAT TIRED FEELING.
It is not natural to have that tired feeling day in
and day out, that you go to bed with at night and
get up with in the morning—it is a sure sign that
your system is out of order. To refresh yourself and
regain that strong vigorous feeling, you should take
a course of Chamberlain’s Tablets. They will
strengthen your stomach and stimulate your liver
and bowels to renewed activity; although you
have not realised it, it is these organs that have
caused that tired feeling. There is no better medi-
cine made for all disorders of the stomach, liver and
bowels than Chamberlain’s Tablets.*
The members of the Australian Parlia-
ment were so keenly interested in the Mili-
tary College at Duntroon (F.T.) that, though
24 had announced their intention of accept-
ing the Government's invitation to a week-
end trip thither—fares and all other exes,
paid—only 11 turned up. And one of these,
B. Smith, need not have gone, being already
fully informed on every subject under the
sun.
At least one vote was lost at Liverpool
Plains owing to the misguided effort of a
“Liberal” orator. A well-known cocky’s
wife, of “Liberal” sympathies, put what was
intended to be a friendly question, but the
speaker, misunderstanding the position,
reckoned it was the time for a little
playfulness. “If the questioner will see
me in my room,” he replied archly,
and the Laborites present roared.
However, the alleged Willis joke had
not penetrated to that part, and after
the meeting, bloodshed was narrowly
averted, owing to a maddened female com-
plaining to her family that Mr. Blank,
M.L.A., had made improper proposals tc
her.
The Weary Ministry has seized upon the
popularity of the Greater Melbourne idea,
and incorporates it in the programme of the
party. But the Weary proposal is the dan-
gerous “Federal” scheme; it entrenches the
little Peddlingtons in a perpetual existence,
with all the parochialism, the do-nothingism.
the conservatism, and the capacity for evil
for which they are celebrated now. There
is only one democratic way of governing
to create a strong central civic
body, capable of exercising every power that
a municipal body should exercise (including
the power of owning all monopolistic ser-
vices, such as gas, electricity, markets, sale-
yards, abattoirs, etc.), and in the creation of
such a body to abolish utterly the small
councils, with their petty dignities and putty
dignitaries.
LINES TO A MODEST YOUNG CANDIDATE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
At North Melbourne Town Hall last night, Mr.
Sol Bloom, the selected Liberal candidate, who is
opposing the retiring member, Mr. Prendergast
(leader of the State Labor party), addressed a large
meeting. The candidate said some people seemed to
think it was almost sacrilege to oppose the leader of
the Opposition. He claimed, however, that as a
free citizen he had a right to contest the seat. He
knew he was very young
An Elderly Female: “The more credit to you!’’
(Laughter.) —Melbourne Age.
The Bloom is on the hustings!
The platform is in flower!
Oh! leave your pan of dustings,
And scuttle from your bower!
The Lib’ral logs that wither
And lie in weedy duds,
To brighten up their blither,
Have got a crop of buds!
The Voice of Youth is singing
The promises of old,
And newer sweetness bringing
To tales past lovers told.
The old, old passions flare up
From ashes cold and sere!
Oh! pin your faded hair up,
And listen, there’s a dear!
Our Weary played us false, love!
He snores and lies about,
Too tired by far to waltz, love,
Or put our foes to rout.
But let us not abuse him,
For Youth —sweet Youth is here!
Our votes we can’t refuse him !
He’s wooing us, the dear!
Bloom on, dear lad 1 Though hoary
The stories that you tell,
Still Youth’s triumphant glory
Casts o’er us all a spell.
Sing on, sweet boy! We’ve said it!
Upon your words we’ve hung!
O Youth!...’tis to your credit
That you are very young!
victoria.
THE ELDERLY FEMALE.


INSTANT CHANGE FROM
INDEPENDENT PIANISSIMO TO
CONTROL OF FORTISSIMO OR
BASS AND VICE-VERSA ABILITY TO
TREBLE _ EMPHASIZE
NON-MECHANICAL A ANY NOTE
TOUCH
EASIEST
TO MANAGE
ABSOLUTE
WARRANTY
FOR TEN
YEARS
THE PERFECT
l A
OR
ylUTOPIA
Sold for Cash
Easy Terms
Arranged
SOLE AGENTS
Nicholson & Co., limited
GEORGE ST. SYDNEY,
AND AT
NEWCASTLE. ORANCE, BRISBANE, TOOWOOMBA & WARWICK.
New Edison Records
Are READY TO-DAY.
HOW else can you have a full range of. entertainment in the home
unless you have an Edison Phonograph? You may have a
piano, but how many of the family can play it, and how much
can they play? You may be able to sing, but think what it would mean
to hear the world’s greatest singers singing the world’s greatest songs.
The Edison Phonograph gives you ALL kinds of the best enter-
tainment. It laughs, sings, talks, plays and recites. .. It requires no
skill and plays as long as you wish —is always ready and stops when
you desire.
In the list of Yew Edison Records for December are many of the
finest numbers we have issued. Most of the well-knoWm Edison artists
are represented, while the Grand Opera Amberol Records are equal
to the finest of the kind ever produced. Yoti should'certainly make a
point of hearing these. Call on the nearest Edison dealer; as soon as
possible, and have them played over for you. If you da not know his
address, write us direct and we will tell you, and also send latest lists of
Records and Phonographs.
AMBEROL RECORDS for DECEMBER
(FOUR-MINUTE). Y
690 —Triumphal March
New York Military Band
693 — Song Bird—lntermezzo (Bells solo)
Charles Daab
694 Gee! But the Moon Makes Me Lone-
some Romain
696 — Don’t Wake Me Up. .Arthur 0. Clough
697 — Virginia Reel (for dancing)
National Promenade Band
699 Rainbow. .Ada Jones and Billy Murray
700 — Uncle Fritz’s Birthday
Len Spencer and Company
701— Birds of the Forest—Gavotte' (Whist-
ling solo) Gialdini
702 — For Killarney and You
Frank X. Doyle
705 -Homeland—“Katie Did”
Eliz. Spencer and Chorus
706 — What a Friend We Have in Jesus
Edison Mixed Quartette
707 Spinning Song (Piano solo)
Karel Bondam
708— The Bridge .... Knickerbocker Q’tette
709 —’Tis But a Little Faded Flower
_ Anthony and Harrison
710— Wait Till the Clouds Roll By
Oakland and Chorus
711— Shepherds’ Dance (Violin s.olo)
, ■ . .Charles D’Almaine
712 — Darling Nellie Gray .• ,
Metropolitan Quartette
714—Overture des Dragons ; de .Villars
Garde, Republieaine .Band
12299—-Coronation March from “The .Prophet”
National Military Band
12300 —Hail! King George .... Peter Dawson
12302 —The Fusilier Patrol, .March (Banjo
solo) Oily Ogkley
12303—A (K)Night in Armour. ... Will Evans
12305 —Bob Down—You’re Spotted !
. Arthur Osmond
12306 —Grey Eyes Ernest Pike
GRAND OPERA AMBEROL RECORDS.
30044 —Provencal Song (Sung in English)
Marie Rappold (Soprano)
30045 —Norma —Meco all’ altar di Venere
(With Me in Rome) -(Sung in Italian)
Carlo Albani (Tenor)
35020—Incantatrice Valzer (Enchantress
Waltz) ..(.Sung in. Italian).
Maria Galvany (Soprano)
40043 —Solomo (Solomon) (Arditi) (Sung in
German)
STANDARD RECORDS for DECEMBER
(TWO=MINUTE).
10497-
10498-
14053-
-The Garden of Roses
Arthur C. Clough and Chorus
-Put on Your Slippers, Your in for the
Night Jones
-Hail 1 King George (March)
National Military Band
14055 —Your Eyes Have Told Me So
Ernest Pike
14056 —I Don’t Want a Girl.. .Arthur Osmond
14058 —Queen of the Burlesque, Schottische
(Banjo Solo) Oily Oakley
NATIONAL PHONOGRAPH CO. OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.,
(Wholesale only), Dept. B, 364-372 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
BOORS FOR
HEALTH SEEKERS.
Our Mission is to bring' the BOOK
and the Man that w
BOOK together.
ART OF PHYSICAL DEVELOPMENT, by
Chappie
MY SYSTEM of Rational and Scientific Physi-
cal Exercise for LADIES, by J. P. Muller
SWIMMING FOR WOMEN AND GIRLS, by
Hamilton
SWIMMING, by many Experts
LIFE SAVING, by Professor Bibbers
THE ART OF MASSAGE, by A. Creighton
Hale
NURSES’ GUIDE TO MASSAGE, by Hyde..
MASSAGE MOVEMENTS AND NAUHEIM
EXERCISES
STRENGTH, AND HOW TO OBTAIN IT,
by Sandow
SCIENTIFIC BOXING AND SELF DE-
FENCE, Tommy Burns
RINGCRAFT, by Jim Driscoll
HOW ARE YOU? the Problem of Health ..
DICTIONARY OF DIET
CONSUMPTION, its Nature, Causes, Preven-
tion and Cure
MACFADDEN’S PHYSICAL TRAINING..
BOXING FOR SKILL AND HEALTH, bv
Ira Wood
HANDY GUIDE TO DRY-FLY FISHING!!
AUSTRALIAN ANGLER’S GUIDE and
SEA-FISHEIt’S MANUAL, by Champley
MILITARY TRAINING BC
MANUAL OF PHYSICAL TRAINING (War
Office)
MUSKETRY REGULATIONS. Part L,
1909; with Amendments, 1910
STANDING ORDERS FOR MILITARY
FORCES
MANUAL OF FIELD ENGINEERING, 1911
INFANTRY TRAINING, 1911
Postage to New Zealand, double rates.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL C?.L T -‘
TD
’*»
(OPPOSITE QUEEN
VICTORIA MARKETS)
476 GEORGE ST. SYDNEY.
An Australian’s
Cross-Country
Passeng'er Flig'ht
Penrith, N.S.W.
Over the Blue Mountains
To Parramatta, Nov. 3rd.
W. Hart, on a Bristol Biplane,
an altitude of 3000 feet
and a
speed of 60 miles per hour,
accomplished on
PRATT’S
Yellow Label
(The First Australian Pupil of
Mr. McDonald, of the Bristol-Biplane Co.,
whose Colonial headquarters are at
Penrith, New South Wales)
Vacuum Oil Co. Pty. Ltd.


On
Everybody’
Lips.
m
O
v
ytßh
Six-Day
Bicycle Race
and Cycling Carnival.
Promoter : J. D. WILLIAMS.
Prize Money: £1650
Sydney Cricket Grounds.
(JOM YIENCING
JANUARY 1, 1912.
Before the hot weather comes, and when
it comes, “Montserrat” Lime Juice is de-
licious as a daily drink. The children love
it, and it’s so good for them. Ask your
storekeeper for it to-day.”*
LIVER AND KIDNEY TROUBLES.
A SYDNEY WOMAN’S TRIALS. AL-
WAYS TIRED AND DEPRESSED,
YET UNABLE TO SLEEP.
“I suffered from Liver and Kidney
troubles for over two years, and severe pam
under the shoulder, which would not let me
get any rest at night, and in the day time
Mrs. A. Lord.
From a photo.
I would be over-
come with drow-
siness,” writes
Mrs. Ada Lord,
45 George St.,
Erskinev i lie.
Sydney. “I was
always ailing, al-
ways sleep y,
tired and de-
pressed, and had
no appetite ; indeed, I
could never enjoy a
meal. The doctor
first treated me for
indigestion, and I
might as well havf
taken water for all the
good his medicine did
me. I was recom-
mended to try Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root
Pills by my nephew, who had been taking
them with wonderful results for liver com-
plaint, which had affected his eyesight; and
I can truly say the first dose gave .me great
relief. I was encouraged to continue, and
now I may sav that I am completely well,
and would not be without them. You. may
use this, as I recommend Dr. Morse’s In-
dian Root Pills to everybody I know.”
Missing Friends.
Roland ell wood terry shutt
—or TERRY. Anyone knowing the
whereabouts of above person, who lett
Loughbro’, England. November, 1908. for
Otorohanga, W. T. W., New Zealand, thence
for Sydney, August, 1909, please communi-
cate with
W. A.,
Bulletin, Sydney.
Malone.— william f. malone,
or anyone knowing his whereabouts,
please communicate with his father, I •
Malone, Blackall, Queensland. Mother dead.
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents—RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOOHLIE anti COOLGABPIE.
Brewery and Offices :
‘bowling Street, REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
“0.K.”: It is the misfortune of the turf
tipster to be always expected to predict the winner
of a big race in one or two or three guesses, and to
be ranked as an absurd pretender if he proves a
false prophet. He is judged by his failures, not
by his successes. The newspaper tipsters score a
great number of successes, for which they get ho
credit at all. In a big field of horses for a Mel-
bourne Cup, every blessed horse is backed more or
less, although the tipsters have done their best to
warn the public off the hopeless competitors. The
business of the horse reporter is to sift the wheat
from the chaff, and he does it very well, as a rule,
considering that he may have two or three hundred
entrants to deal with. Last year, for instance, every
sporting newspaper worth mentioning picked Comedy
King and Trafalgar in their respective lots of 10 or
a dozen horses for the Melbourne Cup—months be-
fore the race. Well, Comedy King and Trafalgar ran
first and second. This year, I took at random the
Akgus analysis of the Melbourne Cup handicap,
published on June 27, and now I find that the 12
horses then picked included The Parisian, Flavian
and Comedy King—the first, second, and fifth in the
race run last week. Looking back to The Bulle-
tin of November 2, I find that only 13 of the “older
nags” are mentioned as being “the writer’s fancies,”
a,nd among those are eight of the first nine in the
Cup race, including the actual first five—The
Parisian, Flavian, Didus, Cadonia and Comedy
King. Eight three-year-olds and 25 older horses
ran for the Melbourne Cup, a field of 33 in all. Out
of the 20 horses not fancied by The Bulletin
writer, not one finished nearer than sixth, and only
four finished amongst, the first dozen. It will be
said that the non-fancied ones were all outsiders,
but, as a matter of fact, some of the animals which
Tiie Bulletin ignored were fancied at the time,
and others were heavily backed on the day. Any-
how, the business' of the tipster is to advise the
public which candidates ought to be better worth
backing than a lot of others. And again, I say that
the average turf prophet knows his business —knows
it so well that he would rarely attempt, to pick a
Melbourne Cup winner in less than a dozen names if
the public would be satisfied with his usually valu-
able attempt to name 20 horses that can’t win.
Superstition and Coincidence received at
least two knock-outs in the Melbourne Cup. Some-
body discovered that Jacamar would win because
his weight was 7st. 111 b., and his number on the
card was 11, and the day was the 7th of the 11th
month in 1911. A less noted coincidence happened
in the case of Diabolo, who had No. 13 on the card.
Diabolo is not an Italian, Latin, Spanish or Greek
dictionary word, but it doubtless stands for Devil
in some language or other, and 13 is the Devil’s
number, as everybody knows. All the same, Diabolo
ran damnably, and his backers, who had expected
him to run like hell, had the devil to pay.
* * * *
The Parisian was the handicapper’s own
personal tip for Melbourne Cup. He reckoned that,
although he couldn’t fairly give the nag more than
Bst. 91b., on its best form of -last season—which was
an easy winning of the Australian Cup, with 7st 71b.
up—the weight would not come so heavy on him as
the burdens 'that the other top-notchers had earned
by their best performances. The Melbourne Cup vic-
tory was The Parisian’s second win on the Fleming-
ton course. At Caulfield the gelding has cut a poor
figure in several races. At Randwiclc he has run
only twice —unplaced in last Sydney Cup, with Bst.
121 b. up, and in the City Handicap with 9st. 21b.
up. As for the middle-weights and lightweights,
there was not a very dangerous-looking candidate
amongst them. The three-year-olds appeared to be
a poor lot, and the result proved that appearances
were not deceptive. Lady Medallist had run clean
away from Flavian (second) and Didus (fourth) in
the Caulfield Cup, yet those two old stagers were
honest representatives of form at the weights, for
they finished second and third to The Parisian last
'week. Close behind them came Cadonia (Bst. 91b.)
and Comedy King (9st. 71b.). The top weight,
Trafalgar, was not ridden out, or he would probably
have finished sixth or seventh. Of the 14 horses that
carried more than 7st. 61b. and less than Bst. 91b.,
not one made a bold show in the run home.
Every Melbourne Cup brings forth its own
impostor, who emerges at the eleventh hour from
the obscurity of the “rank outside” division, and is
rushed into the position of a “popular fancy.” This
year, the impostor was Glue —an aged mare in
'Scobie’s stable, which had not been seen in public
for 16 months. Within a week of the race, all sorts
and conditions of people got word that Glue had
won a trial. Scobie was said to have -whispered
“Glue” to his friends and relatives. The horsey
atmosphere of Melbourne was charged with the odor
of hot “Glue.” Every man in the street had been
told to get a pound or two of Glue. Consequently
Glue was freely backed down to 25’s and 20’s (which
might have been reduced to 15’s if the books had
not been so impatient to grab all the Glue money
and stick to it) on the understanding that the
lightly-weighted mare would endeavor to win from
end to end. If the tail of the Cup field had been its
head. Glue would have justified Scobie’s alleged
confidence. She was last, or nearly last, all the way.
■* * * *
Seemingly, a lot of the horses that run at
a Cup meeting are so inferior in grade, or so utterly
unprepared or stale, or so much “held in reserve,”
that they cannot win, no matter what help the han-
•dicapper may give them as the meeting proceeds.
Take the Oaks Dav running. In the first event —a
hurdle race—Forest Prince and Battery finished
first and second, repeating their performance in the
Cup Dav hurdle race. The next event, a two-year-
old handicap, went to Rathlea, who had won a nur-
serv handicap on Cup Day. Then came the w.f.a.
race with penalties, in which Popinjay scored his
third victory within a fortnight, Lager and Beverage
dead-heating for second place. Lager had previously
won a handicap, and Beverage had finished second
in the Melbourne Stakes at the same meeting. The
Oaks fell to the Derby winner as a matter of course,
and in the last race —a handicap—Prizefighter and
Adgio ran first and second.. The same horses had
run first and third for the Hotham Handicap on
Derby Day. In five races out of six on the
Thursday, recent winning form was thus confirmed,
and the winners’ prices ranged from five to two on
(Wilari) to five to one against (Rathlea). For the
artless punters who fancy outsiders, there was no
chance to happen on a winner; but as in three cases
the runner-up started at long odds, a tote would
have returned good dividends to those who backed
them. But the artless punter may continue to
whistle for the tote in Victoria and N.S.W. Ignor-
ant Wowserism provides the excuse for withholding
it, whilst the bribing and corrupting bookmaker
supplies the real reason for the blocking of the re-
form.
* » * *
What should have been the finest race on
Steeplechase Saturday, at Flemington, proved a
strangely disappointing event. Malt King, Trafalgar,
Comedy King, Lad}' Medallist and Beverage met at
w.f.a. in the C. B. Fisher Plate (12 furlongs). They
represent at the present time the best form in Aus-
tralia at the distance. Outside of the five, there is
not a horse that could be confidently backed to beat
anyone of them in a fair “go,” at w.f.a. —-over
12 furlongs, anyhow. They were the most brilliantly
performed field of five that ever ran at Flemington
—winners of Melbourne Cup, Sydney Cup, Metropoli-
tan, Caulfield Cup, and V.R.C. Derby, not to men-
tion other stakes totting up to many thousands.
Certainly, Lady Medallist was under suspicion of
having gone off since she won the Caulfield Cup in
2min. 34 A sec., and Malt King had not been tested
in public for four weeks; all the same, the backing
of old Trafalgar, at even money, against the four
other top-notchers was not justified by the fact that
he had run quite “nowhere” in the Melbourne Cup
on the Tuesday, whereas Comedy King had finished
fifth. The betting, in defiance of the “Calendar”
records, was 44 to 1 bar one, and the race justified
the market. There was no pace to speak of until
Lady Medallist bolted to the front, and then Trafal-
gar suddenly rushed past the mare, and led the pro-
cession to the winning-post, four lengths ahead of
Comedy King, ridden by the jockey who looks after
him in his track work. Malt King, with a late run,
finished third; time, 2min. 37fsec. Punters should
paste the particulars of this notable event in their
liats for future reference and comparison.
* * * *
In anticipation of a real good mill, several
thousand Methodists, Holy Rollers, Presbyterians,
politicians and even Christians, rolled up to Mcln-
stoush’s salon at Rushcutter’s Bay, Sydnev, on Sat-
urday night, where Dave Smith and “Bandsman”
Rice were billed to slug each other for as mucii as
they could get of the gate receipts, and, incidentally,
for the honor of Australasia and Britain respectively.
The weights were announced as being; Smith, list.
101 b., Rice list. 71b., which satisfied nearly every-
body present how easily the ordinary judgment can
be made to appear foolish by the official scales; for
the Englishman looked pounds heavier than the local
champion. Both men were in good fettle for the
entertainment, excepting that Smith had a slight
cold in the head. That, however, could not account
for the unusually disappointing display he made.
Throughout the 20 rounds his timing and sense of
direction appeared to be the slave of nervousness or
over-anxiety ; his punch, largely because of the fault
just mentioned, was, during the greater -part of the
conciliatory proceedings, hardly solid enough to
stop Dill Macky singing the Boyne Water; and the
pathetic, dog-like appeal which he continually made
with his eyes to the referee during clinches —with
what particular object only Smith knows —suggested
the helplessness of a mild Dago, of the fried fish
persuasion, in the clutches of a hairy son of the
Prophet, who had arrived home unexpectedly and
found him at the side entrance of the harem in
Tripoli. Rice, on his part, ruined any chance he
had from the word “Go” by persistently locking his
opponent’s arms, and sending in the unfriendly wal-
lop when defence seemed to be safely blocked. They
were extraordinary tactics to adopt, particularly
after a warning from Referee Baker, and they
raised against him an unpleasant feeling of irrita-
tion in the minds of fight enthusiasts who, since
Rice’s first scrap in Sydney, had been prepared to
make him a popular Queensberry toreador. As for
the fight itself, although it lacked fierceness, it pro-
duced flashes of very clever boxing on both sides,
Smith generally making the leads, and Rice exhibiting
reasonable retaliation and remarkable ducking. As
a matter of fact, there was too much ducking of the
fancy variety, and, on one occasion, Smith toppled
over in an effort to reach an opponent who suddenly
dived low and came up to the surface, so to speak,
at the opposite side of the ring. It was like a lot
of other things that stand for boxing these times—
trick - work; and a little of it goes a long way.
Baker did not hesitate to give Smith the ver-
dict at the final gong-bang; but, on the night’s
showing, had it not been for Rice’s octopus-like
proclivities, the task of sorting out the winner would
not have been so easy.
Samuel Langford will arrive in Sydney
about daybreak of the 25th (Saturday), and will be
promptly welcomed by the brethren, headed by the
Rev. Slapintosh, and deacons- Tahmmy Burns, Sammy
McVea , and other shining lights. Langford is carry-
ing his own manager, by name, Woodman, with him,
and “Cyclone” Thompson and another light heavy-
weight will .move along in his orbit. The Mcln-
stoush has broken out in a fresh place, and, on De-
cember 23, will make his debut as an author, in the
current number of The Lone Hand. There, he will
write learnedly and lucidly on the subject of “The
Negro as a Boxer.” His limpid discourse on this
dark matter will be made clearer with the aid of
illustrations by Norman Lindsay.
Arnst, according to a cable from London,
has offered Barry £5OO for expenses if Barry will
come to Sydney and row on the Parramatta River.
Richard proposes to recompense himself for the £ 500
by retaining for his own benefit the whole of the
gate and the price of the pictures. The match is
proposed for Easter. It may be all right, but it
doesn’t sound so, somehow. It suggests a spirit of
grab. The gate and the picture rights might not be
worth £5OO ; but, on the other hand, they might
be worth a good deal more. And it would have
sounded much fairer and more sportsman-like had
Richard suggested that the £5OO he gave Barry
should be a first charge on the receipts, after that
the dollars to be divided evenly. It is sad to have
to say it, but the indications are that Richard is
becoming a gold bug.
* * * *
One reason why Arnst does not fancy
rowing on the Thames is that the English river
yields practically no gate. All the loot to be got out
of a race there is what will come out of the stake-
finders’ pockets and the coffers of the cinemato-
graph company that buys the right to take the
pictures. And they won’t pay much, as there is
practical! v nothing to prevent the privateer biograph
bog getting loose by the score, and so ruining the
local market. A race on the Parramatta always
yields some gate—sometimes a gate ranging up to
£lOOO. Facts like these appeal to the business side
of Richard Arnst, Richard’s business side is getting
into splendid condition these days. He refused £5OO
to go to London and race on the Thames, but he is
quite prepared, it is said, to go to Toronto (Canada)
and race Durnan for £3OO exes. The reason is that
the Durnan family has a big interest in steamboats,
and is, it is understood, in a position to control the
traffic in such a way that the bulk of the people
watching the race will have to part up something
to the gentlemen who provide the fun.
The first bat.tle of the English XI. in Aus-
tralia was a murderous business. England went to
the wickets first, and slogged up 563, Gunn, Warner
and Foster making 106 151 and 158 respectively.
And yet, in spite of this demonstration of slogging
ability, the S.A. bowler, Backman, got away with
three wickets for 16 runs. Then the S. Australians
went to work, and disaster set in right away. Clem
Hill struggled up to 51, the top score of the innings;
but only four men reached double figures, except-
ing good old Sundries. He added 19 to the sinking
cause. Three men flew the sign of the waterfowl, and
two escaped it by the skin of their teeth, making
one each. The side vanished for 141, and, with a
deficit of 322 on the first innings, the S. Australians
followed on. Mayne, one of the duck men of the
first innings, retrieved his colors, and, at the drawing
of the stumps, had bashed up 82, but this was more
than balanced by the fact that Clem Hill, top scorer
of the first innings, was bowled for that which is of
no account. By Monday night no less than five men
bad vanished, without leaving a single run behind
them, and eight wickets had fallen for 204. It was
awful to think that the whole score had been made
by three men and Sundries. Mayne was not out for
82, Crawford was caught for 63 and Rees had been
caught for 44. Sundries had contributed 15. If
this steady player isn’t picked as a member of the
next eleven, the selectors don’t know their business.
On Tuesday the agony resumed, and the South Aus-
tralians were put out of their misery for a score of
228. So the English won by an innings and 194
runs.
The fourth round of Sydney First Grade
cricket came to an end on Saturday, amidst some
excitement. North Sydney scored a wildly sensa-
tional win over Paddington, by one wicket and three
runs. Paddington had slogged up 305, and North
Sydney responded with 308 for nine wickets. Middle
Harbor had to play against not only Balmain, but
Time, and won with five wickets and eight runs to
spare. Balmain had hoarded up 113 and 134, and
Middle Harbor put up 147 and then 108 for five
wickets. Redfern, with 347 to its credit, found
Waverley capable of only 300, and won by 47 on the
first innings. Burwood, having declared with 407
runs for the loss of eight wickets, got Central Cum-
berland out for 265, and thus made a first innings
victory of 142. Gordon and Sydney, the two clubs
that had not hitherto scored a win for the season,
found themselves up against one another, with the
probability that at last one of them would score.
It was Gordon’s day out, and it secured a first in-
nings triumph by 105 (351 to 246). University,
with 398, could only make a draw with Petersham,
which rattled up 301 for nine wickets. It was a
batsman’s day, although the light flickered and
changed, and two centuries gemmed the honor list.
Maidment made 116 for Redfern, against Waverley,
and A. J. Hopkins put up 103 for North Sydney
against Paddington. One Barnes hit 94 for Redfern
against Waverley, and Cranney did 92 for Central
Cumberland against Burwood, while C. Docker, of
Burwood, carried his bat for 76. And there were
others too numerous to mention. Folkard was the
bowling lion, taking five Middle Harbor wickets for
37. Woolcott, of Middle Harbor, took three Balmain
wickets for 22.
* * * »
From Adelaide :—Warner’s English team,
as seen on the oval here, has the great virtue of
solidity. It seems to have been picked with a
special eye to Australian conditions. The captain
himself looks younger than ever with his cap on. and
with it off shows a dome like the mental cupola of
a University professor. “The balder I get the keener
I get,” he said at the Mayoral reception ; at 38 he
is batting better than ever before. F. R. Foster
(no relation of the other cricketing Fosters) js all
ginger and whipcord. Another Crawford is brilliant
all round. Douglas, the solid boxing-man, who beat
Snowy Bgker in, the . British ..championships,, is in
the useful class. The pros, are no less good. Strud-
wick has filled out a bit. Barnes and Hobbs and
Rhodes and Gunn are unchanged, except that the
last-named has develoned a marvellous control of
the ball in hatting. Hitch is the fast bowler, not in
form yet. diinneir is a little veteran, and can stay
in all day, as can Vine. Woolley is a big all-
rounder, and Hearne a short one, very young. Mead
is supposed to be the coming left-handed bat. And
there are others. The team gave S.A.’s bowling a
bad showing up ; its great virtue is apparently going
to be an ability to make 300 runs a day without
taking any great risk —and keep on doing it. Any-
body who has patriotically been proposing to lay
odds on Australia for the Tests is hereby earnestly
advised to do , nothing Rash.
The Motor Boat Club of N.S.W. (what a
clumsy name!) is apparently degenerating into a
mere social arrangement, which takes mighty little
interest in motor-boating. A race meeting was ad-
vertised for last Saturday, and the people who usually
line up along the shores to watch the struggle—for
motor-boating is very popular as a sight—waited in
vain. The meeting had been abandoned owing to the
fact that there were practically no entries- This is
disgraceful. Still, the club is prosperous, and its
Venetian Nights are a success, and so are its occas-
ional cruises in company. So,' although not taking
much interest in racing, the motor-boaters are get-
ting a lot of enjoyment out of life and their club.
And, perhaps, like” Martha, or was it Mary (some
hog has stolen the office Bible!), they have the
better part.
The Dunlop Rubber Co. is out on the job
of fixing the details of the great relay ride from
Adelaide to Sydney, the first section of which will
start from Adelaide Post Office at 5 a.m. on Good
Friday morning. This will be the pedal pushers’
section, and the last pair are due to deliver the
despatch to the military authorities in Sydney in
694 hours. Twenty-four hours later, that is at 5
a.m. on Easter Saturday morning, the motor-bike
section will get loose, and start to overhaul the
pedal-pushers—if it can. Then, six hours later, just
at church time, the motor-car section will break
forth, and start out after everybody. There Will be
64 relays of bikists,.fiUed by 128 wheelers; 25 relays
of motor-bikists, filled ’by twice that number of
riders, and four motor-cars relays, of two cars, each.
The bike relays will run from 16 to 21 miles, the
motor-bike runs will be from 30 to 72 miles, while
the cars will rush oyer distances from 200 to 300
miles. The schedules are made out for 164 miles
per hour for bike pushers, 25 miles an hour for the
motor-bikes, and 28J miles per hour for the cars.
It will be strenuous going. #
The recent automobile show in Sydney
was such a success that Melbourne feels it must go
and do likewise, or blow up. So, from March 2to 9,
inclusive, the show of the Automobile Club of Vic-
toria will rage at the Exhibition Building. The
week is well chosen, as the Newmarket and Aus-
tralian Cup crowd will be around at the time.
Owing to the support tendered by the motor and
allied trades, the Automobile Club finds that it can
let itself loose without fear of a financial bump.
Altogether, J. Farr’s second attempt to
establish a record between Melbourne and Sydney on
his motor-bike, was a worse failure than his first
When the unfortunate man reached Albury, on the
return journey, he was knocked up ; but, very pluck-
ily, he pushed on, and made as far as Gundagai, over
roads that were terrible. When he reached “Gundy”
he was at the last gasp physically, and had to
abandon the attempt.
* * * *
Last week, the Australasian Lawn Tennis
Association, or whatever it calls itself, got the in-
formation it had been howling for, and found its
worst fears realised. The Yankee ruling body sent
along word that Larned, Beals-Wright and M.
McLoughlin were on their way to Maoriland to grab,
appropriate and convey away the Davis Cup. Selec-
tor Norman Brookes is putting his ears right back
since the news came to hand. He will probably
postpone his choosing till after the inter-State match
at Melbourne, next week. But he had better do what
he is going to do quickly, so as to give the Austra-
lasian team a chance ol practising together, for the
A.T.A. is up against the toughest cnowd in all Yan-
keedom.
» * * *
The first half of the programme to decide
the ownership of the Dunn Challenge Shield absorbed
the attention of the amateur athletes of Sydney last
week. Seven clubs worried through the bill of fare
with difficulty, and the performances were well up to
amateur standard. The star item was J. W.
Fraser’s easy win of the 120yds. hurdles, in
16 3-ssec. The totalling of points for the day’s
effort ended with South Sydney 174, University 13,
East Sydney 7, and the balance of the clubs hanging
on to the edge of the precipice.
* * * *
The wandering “Kangaroo” Rugby League
team bit the second leek of the tour on Saturday last,
when Oldham (champion Northern Union Club for
the past two years) got it down and fell upon it bv
14 points to eight. A handful of 20,000 patronised
the game, and howled lustily for England; but the
Kangaroos were quite unmoved, staying themselves
with the reflection that, if all the cheers went to Eng-
land, most of the cash went to Australia. So far, the
Kangs have played 15 matches, won 12, lost two, and
So the Kangs are not downhearted. For,
after all, continual victory grows monotonous.
it * * *
Sailing men on Sydney Harbor had a
rough time of it on Saturday. The sultry, dead
calm morning caused them to dig out their biggest
sails, and then, when all was ready, a racing
southerly came up and walloped the water into hills
and crevices. So the small sails had to be resur-
rected. So hard did it blow that the Royal Yacht
Squadron funked the ocean race for the Carlton Cup
and blew it off in the Harbor. And yet, as a matter
of fact, there was nothing to have scared any but
yachtsmen accustomed only to sailing on the waters
of Yass-Canberra. However, the Royals were in a
drawing-room mood, and stuck to the inside. Mr.
Muston, with White Wings, got home first, followed
by Mr. Jones in Thelma, Culwulla 111. having re-
tired. But if the yachtsmen had an easy time of it,
the open-boat men had a devil of an experience.
What were mere ruts to the yachtsmen were vast
crevasses to the open-boaters, and Sydney Sailing Club’s
championship saw half the flotilla wiped out. Sixteen
had just started when, with a roar and a howl, the
southerly arrived. Ballooners burst* bumpkins
carried away, and boats filled. But the little
craft came up, badly shaken, and set to work to meet
the altered conditions. The race soon developed into
a tussle between the veteran Chris Webb and the
coming man, Charles Hayes. Christian Webb was
sailing the Golding, and the coming man was in the
Nimrod. After one of the most exciting contests
ever seen on Port Jackson, the coming man won, the
veteran filling second place.
» * * *
The six citizens who guaranteed the over-
draft of the old N.S.W. Leae-uWG? Wheelmen have
been requested to part up at the earliest possible
convenience. And, very naturally, they are sore. The
present League and the old League are practically the
same body, but run by different individuals. The old
League was bossed by a. crowd of officials who, most
unfortunately, left the books, in a tramear, or acci-
dentally lost trace of them in some wav. And the
members of the new League, which is the same old
League, say they’ll see everybody eternally fried be-
fore they pay a bean towards any overdraft, debts or
liabilities of the old crowd till that party suddenlv
remembers where the books were left. Therefore all
habitual riders in tramcars are requested to keep a
look-out for a large heap of literature. The situa-
tion is rough on the six citizens who have to pay ,
un £6O. N.S.W- League, arivhow, is more alive
than it has been for many a long year, and could
easily meet the liability. But it is consumed with
a feverish desire to see “them books.”


-
r
-v "
m
• i
Absorbent Canvas:
solid Leatber Toe s
Cork Filled a*
nimoSa bark tanned
mm
TOE
T". i/TVj .;- ; »#i
MEN
STYLE 105
glace kid
Blucher-
Balmoral
nvbn
TOE
V
, n
m
'
\ifll-F SIZ£S
\\M HALF slZgs
MOIL FOR
STYLE B^K
our nearest dealer to
YOU
RICHMOND Vic.
LJ.tl.
A REMEDY ABOVE ALL
MURPHY’S PILE
OTHERS!
PILLS.
MroN
r
Cr
O
i
a
8&3 z.
5 SdT
*
05
O
PS
§0
P 3
oeuCl-
gt* «
a- a
Murphy’s Pile Pills are effective and sure because
they not only dispel the symptoms, but also remove the
cause of both internal and external Piles. Ointments and
other outward applications are entirely superseded.
Murphy’s Pile Pills never fail to give immediate re-
lief and a permanent cure. They are non-aperient and
perfectly harmless.
Get a box to-day. Price, 3/-. If not obtainable
locally, order direct from us.
SOLE PROPRIETORS :
ANDREW MURPHY, LTD.
Dept. 8., 109 REGENT STREET,
SYDNEY,
TO ARTISTS.
Designs are invited for a Poster for the
Royal Easter Show, 1912.
The following prizes will be awarded, viz.
First, £lO 10s.; Second, £5 ss. ; Third, £3 3s.
Conditions on application.
Designs must be in the hands of the undersigned on or
before Noon on MONDAY, NOVEMBER 27.
H. M. SOMER, Secretary Royal* Agricultural Society
of N.S.W., Ocean House, Moore Street, Sydney.
BRIGHT S DISEASE
CHRONIC Mid
ADVANCED,
can now be cured. A new method of treatment has saved 87
lives in 100 cases. After keenest investigation, many doctors
convinced; some indeed cared themselves. Don’t hesitate;
get particulars. It will save your friend’s life. Benefit
notic jable in a very short time ; tests show remarkably steady
relief of adverse conditions. Many persons rejected for life
assurance have been accepted after treatment by Fulton’s
Compound. Warranted free from injurious drugs ; it stops
degeneration of kidneys and assuages inflammation.
Send for full particulars and valuable booklet, posted free
to any address by the sole agents—
THE UNION GO., 299 Elizabeth Street, Melb.
Ride
B.S.A
MOTOR
BICYCLE
Perfect in every Part.
vbvmnvb
ts chief features are
SILENCE
EASY RUNNING
PICKS UP QUICKLY
POWERFUL ON HILLS
INTERCHANGEABILITY
EXTREME FLEXIBILITY
Write now for Catalogue
and address of Agent to :
D. Y. RENNIE,
(Represen'ing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.)
fc Australian buildings,
MELBOURNE.
00 (double‘o')
Old Orkney Whisky
THE RIGNEY SHOE
Stands for all that is best in quality footwear.
A Shoe that is made to combine comfort and style,
beauty and durability.
A Shoe of character and individuality.
The Shoe Illustrated is a patent Calf Oxford Shoe,
Circular Vamp, Back Counter, Calf Kid Leg, Patent
Lace Face perforations. Walking or Dress Wear.
Price 25/- Postage 9d. extra.
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.,
“The Men’s Exoluslve High-Grade
Shoe Stores,”
305 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY,
and 179 a PITT ST., SYDNEY.
HI!
Send for a
Copy of our
Catalogue.
Please note that the new shop in Pitt Street is under the personal management of Mr F 0 Risrhev
the sole and only proprietor of the above firm. '
mnbvm
Yon get more Fuel Miles
odt of
SHELL'
than out of any other Motor Spirit
THAT'S WHERE ITS PER-
FECT PURITY SAVES YOU
MONEY.
Mcskei
your
_ own
Cigareftei
If is
fwice
c
CIGARETTE
PAPER
BBST and VBBBST
IF NOT PROCURABLE AT YOUR
TOBACCONIST APPLY TO THE AGENTS
Jacobs Bros. Li? 255? George S; Sydney
qQ
Big G
Borated Goldenseal
Compound
' A safe and simple remedy for \
Bronchitis, Catarrh, Hay Fever
Inflammations, Irritations, ulcer-
ations of ALL mucous membranes
or linings of tho nose, throat,
stomaoh or urinary organs.
AT CHEMISTS
l Why not cure yourself
i Treatise with jach bottle
\ or mailed on request.
Tie Evini Chemical Co.
Ciadnoati, Ohio,
U.S. A.
HESS°PH°NE
THE
Natural Talking
Machines.
"«• £3»£27/10/-
FAVORITE
DOUBLE-
S I DED
RECORDS
3/- each. 3|" each.
Needles 9d., 1/-, 1/3,1/6 per box.
PATHE ATTACHMENTS.
Sound Boxes ... 17/6 each
Sapphires ... 2/6 „
CATALOGUES ON APPLICATION.
Write to us or our Agents—
J. HESS & CO.,
199 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Ka> Well, of course
Anything worth doing ia
worth doing well —so for
the antiseptic cleansing your
teeth need every day, use
CALVERT’S
Carbolic Tooth Powder
Lo:al Chemists and Stores sell it.
F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester, Eng.
TIWUCH6TS
r DIURETIC
KIBNEY&BL3DDEK
REMEDY
A COBRECTIVE
OF THE
URINARY
ORGANS
fa
IT IS
ALSO A
SPLENDID
TOM 1C
Otjfciiri&b/e e?// Chpm>sts>
r * CLARTON,HODGSON & C? I/T? *
Sole Austrd/asi&n Agents. 73 YORK ST.SYDNEY
a. a
Zaw Points
/ni/entors
Can I Obtain a Patent ?
The quickest way to ascertain this,
WITHOUT EXPENSE, is to write
to me describing your invention, enclosing a small sketch
where necessary. Nicety of drawing is not essential;
all that is necessary at first is to give me YOUR IDEA.
I will at once inform you whether the idea is patent-
able, and, if so, give the necessary instructions for
further procedure.
Persons desirous of obtaining really reliable advice or
information regarding Patent matters are cordially in-
vited to consult me personally or by letter. In all cases
a careful consideration of their plans, an honest opinion
and a prompt reply may be expected.
A.'-J-e CALLINAN, Patent Attorney,
Citizens’ Buildings, Collins Street, Meiboarne.


“Stork” lIAND-MIRROR, pure
silver plated, handsomely
embossed..
10/0
Real l’eui-sliul I'KINKET-
STAND, sol’V] silver base
5/0
Gent.’s Automatic kAZOR-STROP,
pure silver plated, richly
embossed.
13/6.
Real Amber CIGAR HOLDER, in Morocco
Case, Oct Go’d Mounted,
10/6, 12/6
Gent’s SHAVING TIDY, Seal Leather,
Plain Domed, Solid Silver Mounts,
12/6
New Art Metal PHOTO. FRAME,
Mounted on Solid Oak, richly embossed.
A. SAUNDERS,
THOUSANDS TO
CHOOSE PROM IN
OUR FREE SILVER-
PLATE CATALOG.
FOR XMAS GIFTS
HUNDREDS OF
DAINTY GIFTS IN
OUR FREE JEWEL-
LERY CATALOG.
nbm
"KAD SALTS, pure silver top
Richly Burnished Crystal
Glass.
4/0.
Gent.’s solid silver plain con-
cave Military HAIRBRUSH,
finest ouality bristles.
i r>/6
PINCUSHION. pure silver
plated; Stand nicely
Finished.
7/0-
II A T PIN
STAND, Solid
Silver.
7/6-
Chatelaine
MEMORAN-
DUM BOOK,
Silver-plat''<l,
Gent.’s Solid Silver CARD-CASE,
Richly Embossed.
10/fi.
Solid Silver
HAT or
CLOTHES
BRUSH, Finest
Bristles
7/6.
glove mirror,
Pure Silver,
Oxidised Cherub or
Iris ■ Design,
3/6.
BEDROOM WATCH-CASE,
Solid Silver, Handsomely
Embossed, Morocco Cover-
ed, with Stand and
Handle.
7 Hi
/Oifti
r
u
UNIRUn
ASAIWdEB
ASAUNDERS
w
nbmnb
SMOKING PIPE, Real
Briar, Silver Screw and
Mount, Amber Mouth-
piece,
Solid Silver Mounted
SEWING COMPANION,
15/6
SHAVING CUP, Pure Silver Plated,
richly Engraved, Satin Finish, Gilt
Lined,
12/6
HAIRPIN BOX, Pure Silver Plated, richly Embossed,
Size, 4in x 2in,
5/6
GLOVE BUTTON-HOOIv, Solid Silver Handle,
1 /-•
TOBACCO JAR, Pure Silver Plated, Hand
Embossed, Satin Finished, Height inches
17/6
HEAD SALTS, Pure
Silver, richly Em-
bossed Top, Hobnail
Cut Glass Bottle,
7/6
JEWEL BOX, Pure Silver Plated,
nicely Embossed and Engraved, Satin
lined.
15/6-
Ladies’ BELT BUCKLE, Pure Silver
Plated, Emu, Kangaroo, or Jack-
ass Design,
3/ 6
Solid Silver IIAIR-BRUSH,
Fine Bristles.
15/6
wm
LM
PIN or TRINKET TRAY,
Silver-plated.
1/6
Gent.’s Solid Silver Hand-en-
graved, Gilt-lined CIGARETTE-
CASE.
Plush GLOVE BOX, Embossed Silver Plated
Nickel Silver Mounts, Silk Lined,
5/G- , ,
Handkerchief Box to match, t »•
Silver, Hand Embossed. MANICURE
SET, in Morocco Case,
25/-.
PINCUSHION and TRINKET ROX, Solid
Silver Mounted,
4/6
UISCHa CtOQfJ
k MAKER fa
SYDNEYS LEADING JEWELLER.
807.805.811.815.815.817.GE0RGE ST. (Opposite Railway Sfationl SYDNEY,NSW.
) SILVERSMITH
. -oHSULTJ/Vc i


THE
BROWNIE
KODAK
FAMILY
«•
sss
<Q>
sT
r^sr
Get Brownie-Kodaks for the
Children at Christmas.
CHILDREN” love picture taking and picture making. They positively revel in it and to give a
Brownie-Kodak Camera as a Christmas present is to satisfy a wish dear to almost every healthy
normal boy or girl.
Such a gift lasts, not as the average toy does, but a day or a week or so, but is kept, prized and
used year in and year out. The initial outlay is small and the pastime altogether is quite inexpensive.
Your boy or girl will quickly become conversant with the delightful
pastime of picture-making with*the Brownie-Kodak. Every operation is
simple and sure. No dark-room or previous experience is necessary. It’s
daylight all the way with a Brownie Camera, and it’s interesting, edifying
and fascinating from start to finish. Come in and learn more about these
splendid little Cameras, or write for a free copy of the Kodak Catalogue,
which furnishes complete details.
No. 2 FOLDING BROWNIE.
21/-
For Pictures x 3£in.,
and makes 6 exposures
without reloading. Weighs
16oz.
Price 21/-; Postage 9d. extra.
No. 1 BROWNIE, 5/-
Tiikea pictures x 2£in.,
and has a carrying capacity
of G exposures without re-
filling. Weighs only Boz.
Prloe 5/- ; Postage 6d. extra.
No. 2 BROWNIE, 10/-
Makes rectangular pictures
2£in. x 3|in., and has a
capacity of G exposures,
without reloading. Only
weighs 13oz.
Price 10/-; Postage fid. extra.
No. 2a BROWNIE, 12/6.
Takes 6 or 12 pictures
x 4|in. without reloading,
and weighs 21oz.
P: Ice 12/6 : Postage 1/- extra.
Nd. 3 BROWNIE, 17/6.
Makes 12 quarter-plates,
3|in. x 4£in., without re-
loading. Weighs 250 z.
Price 17/6; Postage 1/-extra.
No. 2a FOLDING BROWNIE,
30/-
For pictures 2iin. x
and makes 6 or 12 pictures
without reloading.
Price 30/- ; Postage 1/- extra.
No. 3 FOLDING BROWNIE,
37/6.
Makes 12 quarter - plates,
3£in. x 4£i»., without re-
loading. Weighs 250 z.
Price 37/6 ; Postage 1/- extra.
No. 3a FOLDING BROWNIE,
42/-
The popular postcard size, SJin.
x s|in. Has a capacity for 12
exposures without reloading.
Price, with Single Lens, 42/-;
Rectilinear Lens, SO/- ; Post-
age 1/3 extra.
No. 2 STEREO BROWNIE,
50/-
For Stereo Pictures, each 3Jin. x
2£in.,and has a capacity for 10
stereo exposures without re-
loading'. With a pair of Achro-
matic Meniscus Lenses.
Price 50/-; Postage 1/3 extra.
KODAK LTD.,
Incorporating: Baker & Rouse Prop. Ltd
(Sole Agents for THE GAUMONT CO. t LTD., Cinematograph Experts),
379 George St., Sydney.
Ruthven St., Toowoomba.
“ The Block,” 284 Collins St., Melbourne. 37 Rundle St., Adelaide. 78-80 Queen St., Brisbane.
Flinders St., Townsville. 346 Argent St., Broken Hill. 6 Mercer St., Wellington, N.Z.
CAPILLARINE
THE MOUSTACHE PRODUCER
c?
\
K
GROW A STRONG MOUSTACHE
You’ll feel sensitive about not being able to grow a moustache
—that soft white down or few straggly hairs on your upper lip
is a common joke amongst your acquaintances. CAPILLARINE
will grow you as long, strong a moustache as any of them.
Just rub it in every night. Its use will never be remarked!
Price 10,16 Jar
Post
Free.
Send for our Illustrated
Price List FREE.
The C. & A. MOUSTACHE TRAINER shnpes the mous-
tache. Worn at ni<;hl. 2/6, 36, 5/6 each, Post Free.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney,
5
J
BOOMERANG ACCORDEONS
(TWELVE NEW
TYPES).
9m
CRT^-
c*o<^v
m
®6L
5
' iiii ,ii
222
Kach “BOOMERANG” ACCORDEON is the acme of Perfection;
the Reeds are hand-filed, and the tone is simply bewitching. We
specially recommend—
No. 105 ACOORDEON, “BOOMERANG” Brand, is of medium
size, Rosewood mouldings, two sets of wrought and hand-turned
English STEEL REEDS, invisible Fastener, NICKEL BELLOW
PROTECTORS, soberest workmanship, and highest quality of tone.
Price, including leatherette case, with lock and key, 305., post free.
No. 108 ACCORDEON, “BOOMERANG” Brand, large in size,
Rosewood polished mouldings, long bellows (111 b.) fitted
with patent nickel protectors, encircling each individual rib of the
bellows, and three independent stops. Each Accordeon is fitted
with instantaneous Invisible Fastener, THREE full sets of highly-
tempered English STEEL REEDS, the Gem of Perfection in loudness
and quality of tone. Price, in leatherette case complete, 405.,
post free.
ALBERT (SL SON, 137-9 King' Street, Sydney,
KELVIN
GENERATING SET
" 1 1111 " 1 11
mbnmjh
The KELVIN
ELECTRICITY
GENERATING SET
FOR
810-SHOWMEN!
It’s portable on wheels—it’s absolutely reliable, and
with it you can have your 50 Ampere Arc in town
or country independent of any Electric Lighting Co.
The cost is a minimum, too while it saves the
Showman SO to 95 per cent, of the cost of Lighting his
lantern, and ensures a brilliant steady picture.
Illustrated Catalogue Free on request.
JERDAN’S,
Leading Cinematograph
Specialists,
393 George Street
(Facing
Royal Hotel),
Sydney,
w
#
Rifles, Shotguns" and Cartridges
THE RED W BRAND
There is such an intimate relation between a gun
and its cartridges that neither will shoot well if there
is any defect in either. The cartridges must be
uniform in size and shooting strength no less than
the gun must be accurate and reliable. The combi-
nation of Winchester guns and cartridges seems best
to fulfill these requirements. And why should not
this be so? for Winchester guns and cartridges are
made in the same factory and tested together. Win-
chester Repeating and Single Shot Rifles and Repeat-
ing Shotguns are made for all kinds of shooting, and
Winchester Cartridges for all makes of shotguns, rifles
and pistols. Get the celebrated Winchester make.
• • \
For Sale by All Dealers .
GUN AND CARTRIDGE FACTORIES OF WINCHESTER REPEATING ARMS CO»
I . Ilf. ;
* A,f. .jrr <a, t SSf- .
•u-.
*»
j.
v .
tV,'*
.
iskN*' ►-" .-'
.„; v#*


Dry Cough
stopped bp
SCOTT’S
Emulsion
after it had hung about for
a long time and resisted
other treatments. Miss L.
Staniland, Ash Street, Bar-
caldine, Queensland (16th
June, ’10) writes that:
"Suffering with a very dry cough I tried
kjĥ
several mixtures without
success. But after one bottle
of Scott’s Emulsion the
cough began to loosen, and
after five bottles disappeared.
I had been troubled with
the cough for about six
months, and you cannot
imagine how grateful I am
for the cure effected by
Scott’s Emulsion.
All over the world Scott’s
Emulsion has a reputation
for stopping coughs and
other chest and lung troub-
les ; a reputation built upon
attested cases. Scott’s
Emulsion is the only
emulsion which can make
this claim. Its bearing upon
YOU is that in buying
Scott’s Emulsion you
buy CERTAINTY of relief:
Scott’s has long ceased to
be an experiment. Scott’s
cures irrespective of age.
Therefore, do not ask
for “ emulsion ” ask for
SCOTT’S EMULSION.
Of all Chemists and Dealers in Medicines.
The Initial Cost of a
dWAN"
Fountpen
is trifling compared with the life-
long satisfaction it affords. One
can’t use a “Swan” and after-
wards dispense with it.
Sold by all Stationers & Jewellers.
INSIST ON A “SWAN.”
Catalogue free from Makers.
MABIE, TODD 8 CO.
(London),
(Wholesale
only),
or JAS. A. BURKE
15 Waltham Buildings,
24 Bond St,, Sydney, N.S.W. [2
m
THE LAST WORD ON THE TREATMENT OF
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica, Lumbago,
AND KINDRED COMPLAINTS IS
SAM O L.
SAMOL is the result of a life’s research work by
a distinguished physician, Dr. Scheuble, of Vienna.
Dr. Scheuble has received for his discovery the
greatest honors it is possible for a medical ipan to
gain, including the highest award from the Vienna
Chamber of Science and decoration by the Emperor
of Austria.
SAMOL is a scientific product, the result of all
that is latest and up-to-date in the medical science.
SAMOL gives immediate relief. You have not
to wait for weeks before you get results —you learn
its value in a few minutes.
SAMOL is not a strong, hot liniment, and needs
neither friction nor rubbing. It is a refined, delicate
ointment, so bland and soothing that it is specially
recommended for burns, wounds, eczema, etc.
SAMOL cures by administering the Salicylic ether
of Menthol by absorption.
SAMOL contains no- harmful ingredients. It is
sold in tubes, price 3s. 9d. and 65., and can be
ordered through any chemist, or obtained post free
direct from the wholesale agept for Australia, H. A.
Goddard, No. 3 Eden’s Buildings, 108 George Street,
Brisbane; or branches: 194 Vickery’s Chambers, 82
Pitt Street, Sydney ; 9 to 15 Stock Exchange Build-
ings, Queen Street, Melbourne; 3 Ellershaw’s Build-
ings, Cliff Street, Fremantle; 213 Watson’s Build-
ings, , Auckland.
Those preferring an internal remedy can obtain
the same results from Dr. Scheuble.’s Salimenthol Tab-
lets, put up in glass cylinders, #fice 3/6, post free.
THE LONE HAND offers you the Glad
Hand. It’s the Right Hand, and a week
after publication there are none left.
APENTA
NATURAL APERIENT WATER-
Obtainable from All Chemists.
*
One of the most
valuable foods known to
the Medical Profession. —“ The
Lancet ” describes it as “ Mr. Benger s
admirable preparation.”
Benger’s Food is distinguished from the others by
the ease with which it can be digested and absorbed.
Benger’s Food is for Infants and Invalids,
and all whose digestive powers have become weakened
through illness or advancing age.
BENGER'S FOOD LIMITED, Otter Works, Manchester, England,
{Fjenger's Food is sold in tins by Druggists, etc., everywhere.
824
Buy
the
‘Aberdeen” Brand of Tarpaulins.
TARPAULINS are like every-
thing else —they are designed for
a purpose. If they do not answer
that purpose, they are valueless.
The “ABERDEEN” TARPAU-
LINS are made to keep stacks and
waggon loads dry. THEY DO
NOT LET THE WATER IN.
They do not crack or blister. If
you want Tarpaulin perfection,
buy
“ABERDEEN” (Regd.) BRAND
“A BERD EE N” TENTS,
WATER BAGS, RIDING COATS,
RICK COVERS, and other water-
proof goods are sold on their
merits —that accounts for their
popularity.
<**
I
SMITH, COPELAND & CO.,
204-206 CLARENCE STREET,
SVDNEY.
AGENTS-
-BRISBANE : H. J. H. Ross, Edward Street, BRISBANE.
VICTORIA: J. Bartram & Son, King Street, BOTANY.
S. AUSTRALIA : C. Whiting, Currie Street, ADELAIDE.
TASMANIA: Seabrook & Neal, Collins Street, HOBART.
QUEENSLAND: WALTER REID & CO., ROCKHAMPTON, Q.
Plum Razors for a Velvety Shave
Sometimes you’ve had a shave by some expert
Barber, when your skin has felt as soft as velvet, and
the razor has glided over your face without the least
suggestion of dragging or pulling. That Barber has
used a “Plum” Bazor—and with a “Plum” you can
shave yourself just as perfectly. It has a keen
silver steel blade, and we guarantee to keep the
“Plum” you buy from us in order free for two years.
TheC.&A. Mous-
tache Trainer
shapes the Mous-
tache. Worn at
night; 2/6, 3/6,
6/6 each post free.
Send for our free
illustrated price list
We Grind and Set
Razors, 1/- each.
Single Razor, Black Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 21/-.
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 13/3.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-. This line
makes a very handsome present.
The Plum Razor Strop, 10/6 and 7/6.
Other good kinds from 3/6 oach.
Stick good Shaving Soap, 1/-
The Plum Strop Dressing, 1/- Tube.
Gentlemen who shave themselves
should not be without it.
All the above Post Free.
SAFETY RAZORS from 5/6.
Price lO 6.
CRAIG
AND AITK.EN,
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established 30 Years.
Aerogen Safety Gas Machines
Produce an Absolutely Perfe<st Light. - *!
Ideally Suited for Country Houses,
Stores, Hotels and Billiard Saloons.
AEROGEN GAS can be used for HEATING and
COOKING with best results.
NO OFFENSIVE ODOR. NON-EXPLOSIVE.
Costs one-quarter that of Acetylene, and gives one-
tenth the trouble.
CAN BE USED WITH UPRIGHT OR INVERTED
BURNERS.
NO ENGINE IS NECESSARY. The AEROGEN
GAS MACHINE simply winds up like a clock, and is
entirely automatic.
DISTRIBUTING AGENTS:
SYDNEY: HANNAMS, LTD.
MELBOURNE: PHILLIPS & PIKE.
ADELAIDE: CHAS. ATKINS & CO., LTD.
PERTH: ALCOCK & CO. PTY., LTD.
BRISBANE: E. RICH & CO., LTD.
ROCKHAMPTON: W. REID & CO., LTD.
TOWNSVILLE: ALF SHAW, LTD.
iHiHI
rm
rrrr
Clement-Bayard
Motor Cars
Speak for Themselves.
Extract of a letter
from the late Manager,
“Motor Transit Com-
pany of Australia,”
Glen Innes: “During
the time I was manag-
ing ‘The Motor Transit
Co. of Australia,’ we
had plying between
\s
k
8-h.p. 2-cylinder Clement-Bayard Car. £225.
Glen Innes and Inverell an 11-16 Clement-Bayard Car, which we puicliased as second-
hand. We did about 60,000 miles with her up to the time of my leaving (she is still going
well). Nearly all the running was done between Glen Innes and Inverell, over the famous
w fit prion some of the srr&cles of which are one in six. lhe Car was in\ariably
was given very little care; but in the face of the bad usage she received
at our hands she stood up wonderfully well, and the only repairs that were effected
were two ball races for road wheels and a set of new valves. Call and allow us to
o~vnlin the reason whv our prices for Cars generally, Commercial Lorries and High-
wheel Buggies wall be found to be 25 per cent, lower than the usual Sydney quotations.
10-15-h.p., 4 Cylinder, fitted with one wide Seat Boot at the Back, £365.
12-18-h.p., 4 Cylinder, fitted with Touring Body, £475.
15-li.p.. 6 Cylinder, fitted with high-class Touring Body, £ooo.
FAIRFAX 8 ROBERTS, LTD.,
Garasre— 6 & 8 Underwood Street, off 37 Pitt Street^^
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23-25 HUNTER STREET.
The Queen of Table Waters
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL CHEMISTS
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, Nervons Conghs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression Immediately
relieved by GRIMAULT & Co’g INDIAN CIGAR-
ETTES. Bold by all. Chemists.. . . .
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted, whether sent by post or handed
inj and no MS. will be returned unless stamps
(of any State) accompany.
Bundarra: “Do rock wallabies go up
leaning trees?” We don’t know. The assistant as-
sociate religious editor watched a leaning tree this
morning for 20 minutes, and no rock wallaby went
up it in that time. Perhaps it didn’t lean enough.
If anybody else has had better luck, we don’t mind
hearing from him J.G.: Boil it down. You are
developing into the most long-winded contributor to
the w.p.b 8.M.: Basketed gently by special re-
quest .... G'.L.: “He was lying at Death’s door for
weeks.” Shows how patient old Death is with these
prevaricating tea canvassers Pliill: Waratah
lament no value. You will be writing wreck verse
about the stranding of the Ark on Ararat next.. . .
Hannibal: No use for the parable Nizam: A
small, bright point, embedded in some hopelessly
rocky verse. .. . R.C.: Sorry no print value as written.
Harry: Neither of them scores F.M.N.:
(M.L.): Sorry unsuitable. The writers represented
were paid one dividend... .Jas. S.: Unsuitable....
A.P.1.W.: Straggling bush verses. .. .John C. (Q.) :
N 0... . L.S.: The basket —like Hell —never becomes
full. . . .Post (W.A.) : Bondi surf poem taken out by
the undertow. .. .Velo: Tram rhyme jolts like the
cars...W.R. : Pair work for one of tender years...
G. : Graceful, but hardly up to standard. Always
attach your full name and address.... W.W.: Very
earnest and dull. .. Jj.K.: You might try and im-
prove the verses. Sketch reserved for a second read-
ing.... View Point: Knocked out. . . .A.V.L.: First
attempt foiled.... W.W. P.: A thin rhyme. .. .Arthur
H. : Condemned lustitia: It is a literary boomer-
ang.... F.M. (S.A.) : “Moving” too slow in present
form. Needs a good deal of alteration and pruning.
Put aside for a second inspection.... D.S.P.: Heavy
consignment of furious ignorance to hand. . . .F.L.:
Have no spare rope on hand, but will allow you
the necessary few lines wherewith to suspend your-
self :
And oh for the wild, wild sea
Storming and dashing so ravenously
Among the rocks with terrible shocks
And calling to me, to me !
Well, why don’t you go to it? Alice H. G.
(S.A.): “For many years the Squire had looked at
the portrait, and striven to recall he knew not what.
Something haunted his memory. Something stabbed
at his brain and urged him to remember things long
forgotten. He was not sure of himself. And the
place was falling into ruins about his head.”
Why couldn’t you say right away that the splinters
from the collapsing roof were hitting him on the
skull, and trying to get him to mend the lid of the
moated grange?..Bellerive: The stage once more:—
Frantically fled the actress
Into the cold night air
From a wooer whom had pledged
His love to Her
Luise Veletil he cried
You’ll never escape me
You’ve blasted my life
And I’ll do for thee
Two shots rang out through
The misty air
And a lifeless mass fell
The grand actress fair
Then to cheat the Daw
The distracted man of Wealth
Reloaded his pistol
And shot himself.
. . . .P. Hamlet: You don’t believe that hickory is
used for making milestones. Then you haven’t
walked along Bond-street, Sydney. Every milestone
in Bond-street, Sydney, is made out of hickory. It
pains us to find old readers so incredulous. . . .J.
Leahy: J. B. Steel, 192 Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
.... Murrabit: Let’s have the name of the school. ..
Crystal: “Could” D.O’D. (M.L.) : Can’t offer
terms other than ordinary rates for pars., unless the
pars, are worth extraordinary rates. Both speci-
mens you forwarded are too late, anyhow. .. .G.O.
(M.L.) : Hardly enough interest.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CONTRIBUTORS.
Cary Kature: One strikes us favorably. .. .X.0.X.:
Rejected with scorn and other wild beasts.... Aotea-
roa: Julian Ashton’s School of Art supplies the first
requirement; the Sydney Technical College the
second.... Geo. M.: Pictures wretched. Jokes old,
and one of them dirty. As for that 50-year old
horror about the boy who was to be “taught, not
smelled”—well, only for the fact that the office axe
has been sent to be half-soled, you would have been
slain on the spot. .. .M. Bungler (or Stronghair or
Strangler or Bannagher or some such name): Three
poor sketches. . .Watson: The father and uncle of all
chestnuts. .. .N.G.S.: It is a good rule in drawing a
man not to make the body more than 2 i times the
length of the legs. You have exceeded the limit....
F.N.: Picture is moderate and joke is moderate, and
the two are a bad combination.
In 31 out of Victoria’s 65 electorates
women voters are greatly in the majority.
Toorak has the largest majority of she voters
—4123; but in St. Kilda, Hawthorn and
Prahran the female element preponderates
almost as largely. Melbourne City and
Port Melbourne are the only metropolitan
electorates in which man is top dog. In
Melbourne he has a pull of 124. Swan Hill
has the largest masculine majority—62l4
males, 3703 females. It is noted that where
woman is strongest the corpulent candidate
is very firmly glued to his seat. Only a
preternaturally beautiful Radical candidate
could hope to score enough misses to shift
Bayles from Toorak, for instance.
“Snell”: the excitement of “the Turf”!
It was at Caulfield on Cup Day. Near me
was a tallish, slim, well-dressed, lady-like
person; *iaar her a fair-to-average man in
a pearl-grey boxer. “Lady Medallist!”
yelled he suddenly. “Flavian!” squealed
she. “Lady Medallist!” “Flavian !” “Lady
Medallist!” “Flavian! Flavian! Flavian”
“Lady Medallist!” “No, no, Flavian!
Flavian!” in a piercing scream. “Lady
Medallist!” he roared, in unconscious
reply. “Flavian!” she screamed, turning
on the backer of Lady Medallist with great
fury, and smiting him on the top of his grey
boxer with her glasses. “Flavian ! Flavian !
Flavian! you beast!” With every yell
Grey Boxer received a dull, sickening thud,
and then the lady-like person went into
violent hysterics. Then I learned to my
astonishment that they were total strangers.
A recent advt. in a Melbourne paper
shows that the modern taste for light and
trivial stuff is not universal: —
MATRIMONY.
A respectable young man, 32, wishes corre-
spond lady, inclined stout, above medium
height, and wearing velvet preferred, view
above. Reliable.
Spider-waisted frivollers in chiffons or pneu-
monia blouses would throw away a postage
stamp in replying to an advt. like that.
That reliable party of 32 wants durable
.goods:—stout preferred, with a frock to
match.


<rc
The safest step to take
if you desire immunity from side-slip
and value your safety, is to fit
“ Semelle ” Non-Skids
to your car because :
1. They are real non-skids.
2. The leather tread, in which the steel
studs are embedded, is an integra l
part of the tyre.
3. They are virtually puncture-proof.
4. They are as resilient as all - rubber
covers.
5. They are suitable for all weathers, all
climates, and all road surfaces.
A trial will prove their quality.
STOCKED BY ALL THE LEADING GARAGES.
THREE WITCHES
CIGARETTES.
SJORRISS !
iree Witches
civAarrm
10
for
HIGHEST GRADE.
Kb per 100, Post Free.
MICK SIMMONS, sydney.
Storekeepers and Tobacconists should
send for our Trade Lists.
VICE-REGAL
HAIRDRESSERS,
The Misses Isaacs
Transformations from £4/4/- Tails from 7/6.
Puffs, Pin Curls and All Accessories always in Stock.
COUNTRY ORDERS RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION.
IGI King Street,
SYDNEY.
Fringes from 7/6.
Combings made up.
’Phone 2138 Central.
mn,m
ENO S ‘FRUIT SALT’
A HOUSEHOLD REMEDY FOR
All Functional Derangements of the Liver, Tempo-
rary Congestion arising from Alcoholic Beverages,
Errors in Diet (Eating or Drinking), Biliousness,
Sick Headache, Giddiness, Vomiting, Heartburn,
Sourness of the Stomach, or Constipation. It is
a Refreshing and Invigorating Beverage, most
Invaluable to Travellers, Emigrants, Sailors, and
Residents in Tropical Climates.
ENO'S - Fruit Salt’ assists the Functions of the Liver, Rowels. Skin, and Kidneys
by Natural Means. There is no doubt that, where it has been taken in the earliest
stages of a disease, it has, m innumerable instances, preventer a serious illness.
CAUTION. Examine the Capsule and see that it is marked ENO'S ‘ FBTJIT SALT'
otherwise you have the sincerest form of flattery -IMITATION .
Prepared only by J. C. ENO Ltd., ‘FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, London,
S.E., Eng., by J. C. ENO'S Patent.
Sold by Chemists and Stores everywhere.
ARE YOU
DEAF?
If you are deaf, or going deaf, you will
be glad to hear of a simple and scientific de-
vice which will restore your hearing, no mat-
ter how old you are. There is no mystery
or secrecy about it; we describe it fully and
explain just how it acts.
You use spectacles as sight magnifiers, and
in the same way you may use this sound
magnifier as an aid to weak hearing. But,
unlike spectacles, the Wilson Common-sense
Ear-Drums are invisible and comfortable.
You can’t tell you are wearing them. No
one else can, either, because they are not
seen.
They rest the ear nerves by taking the
strain off them —the strain of trying to hear
dim sounds. What a blessed relief to have
done with that tiring strain 1
Being made of the purest and softest Para
rubber, they cannot be felt, even when the
head rests on a pillow. For the same reason,
a blow on the side of the head will not hurt
the ear. In fact, they protect the ear, the
tender inner parts that are so sensitive, from
cold winds, dust, sudden and piercing sounds.
So that you may clearly understand why
these facts are true, and why the Sound Mag-
nifier restores the hearing, we give an illus-
tration of one as it lies in the ear. You will
notice that the Sound Magnifier is shaped
like a trumpet, and so conveys even the
faintest sounds right to the natural ear-
drum. Being of the softest rubber, it cannot
hurt the ear. It fits the orifice of the ear
with precision and comfort. The division
that runs across the mouth is to allow the re-
moval and insertion of the Ear-Drum, and to
brace it.
The shape of the Wilson Ear-Drum has
been ' chosen after years of experience as the
best adapted to carry the faintest sound right
down to the natural ear-drum.
To persons who are nearly deaf, it is not
only trying to have people shout at them,
but it hurts the ear-drum. When age comes
the ear-drum sometimes gets thickened, or
loses its tightness, and shouting does not act
properly on it. It only makes a confused
and tiring noise. But the Sound Magnifiers
concentrate the sound in the best spot for
perfect hearing.
Of course, if you have lost the hearing-
nerve completely, or were born deaf, we can-
not pretend to cure you. Only a miracle
could do that, in spite of some of the absurd
claims made to-day. But if you can hear the
faintest sound, do not despair. You will
never regret trying the Wilson Ear-Drums.
We have letters to show you from deaf people
in Australia and New Zealand who have been
cured, and you can be cured, too. You may
wear the Ear-Drums day and night, and take
them out whenever you wish. Children can
wear them (we have special sizes for children
from six to twelve). Even a child can insert
and remove them without the least danger.
The price is £1 (the fee for a doctor’s
single visit). This includes a pair of Drums
(they are only sold in pairs), a .fine nickel
remover and also an inserter. After the first
pair is bought you may purchase a single
drum at any time for Bs., but the pair you
get at first will last quite two years. Do not
ask for a trial pair. AVe do not send them
out on trial, and so they are never second-
hand. Use the Order Form below, and the
Outfit will be sent to you at once, with the
fullest instructions. Don’t delay, but have
the comfort of good hearing as soon as you
can.
ORDER FORM.
STAR; NOAfELTY qO.,
103 Premier Buildings,
229 Collins Street, Melbourne (Vic.).
Please send me an Outfit containing a pair
of AVilson Common-sense Ear-Drums, an In-
serter and a Remover, for which I enclose
One Pound.
Name
Address
NOTE. — Send by Money Order or Postal
Note. If a Bank Note or Sovereign is sent,
you mult register it.
CANT
B
BEAT
RIAR
PIPES
ALL SHAPES
L (/-EACH POST FREE 1/2
Quality Not Better
in a
Guinea P.pe
r MICK SIMMONS
STOREKEEPERS Sc TOBACCONISTS
SHOULD SEND TOR OCR TRADE US T\
I
Superior to (
INJECTIONS <
CUBEBS and <
COPAIBA. 1
I
Cures the same
diseases without
inconvenience
in
48 hours.
mt)
Each Capsule bears the name S®


For Skin Troubles. Her Hands Rough
and Itching, Had to Wear Gloves
Night and Day, Could Not Take
Cases. Used Cuticura Soap and
Ointment, A Complete Cure.
“It is now more than twelve months since
the skin on my hands became rough and
itching. I tried simple dressings and several
gnm,
fgnm
patent ointments, but they
only eased them for a time.
If I did any washing the
acute irritation afterwards
was terrible. It would
wake me up at night. The
roughness of the skin turned
to deep cuts. I have had
to wear gloves night and
day for a long time. I had
to stay at home for a whole
month and not take cases,
because the disinfectants I
used in my profession only
aggravated the irritation.
“I sent away for several samples of dif-
ferent cures at different times, but until I
got Cuticura Ointment and Soap I had no
real relief. After using the sample box of
Cuticura Ointment my hands became easier,
but they had been bad for so long and the
cuts were so very deep that I had to use four
boxes of Cuticura Ointment before I had a
complete cure. I began to think they never
would be right again, and if I had not per-
severed with Cuticura Ointment they never
would. When I have been at my cases, I
have shown them to several doctors and have
had ointment from them, but I only had
temporary relief. I shall only be too pleased
to recommend the Cuticura Remedies
wherever I come across any skin troubles.”
(Signed) Nurse Rae, 232 Dudley Rd., Wol-
verhampton, England, May 9, 1911.
Sold everywhere. Send to R. Towns & Co.,
Dept. 25K, Sydney, N. S. W., for 32-page
Cuticura booklet on skin troubles and liberal
sample of Cuticura Ointment.
An Interesting 1
Experiment.
If you would like to see the alteration Grey
Hairs make, just lay a piece of paper over each of
the two halves of the above portrait. The Grey
“ half ” will then be seen to have the appearance
of 45 years of age, whereas the other half looks
only 30. Dr. B. Allen’s (U.S.A.) Mexican Walnut
Stain will make all those years of difference if you
are grey or prematurely grey. It is perfectly
harmless, easy to apply, and will quickly restore
the hair to the natural shade Of youth, or younger
years.
Dr. B< Allen’s (u.s.a.>
Mexican
Walnut Stain
is offered as a Superior Stain. It contains no lead,
mercury, silver, sulphur, etc., and is equally suit-
able for Ladies’ Hair, or Hair of the Beard or
Moustache., None genuine without the signature
of —Alfred Ardley (Registered in the Patents
Office of the Commonwealth).
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS,
bnm
Rat
Death
a Reliable Rat Destroyer
Prepared from formula supplied
by DR. BURNETT HAM.
Price 1 1
s«~l/
per large
Tin.
Very Attractive and Always Fatal to RATS and MICE.
WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTING AGENT—
DOERDIN g SAINSBURY, MELBOURNE.
LADIES!
Develop
Your Bust.
Don’t be satisfied to remain Thin, Flat-
Chested and Undeveloped—use our
Simple Home Treatment, and be made
glad. Particulars Free.
LONDON AGENCY,
ghnm
44 Castlereag'h Street, SYDNEY,
AN
IDEAL TONIC
When your head is dull and heavy, your tongue furred, your
bowels costive,. when . you feel done-up and good-for-nothing,
FOR THE
STOMACH
AND LIVER
have no appetite, no energy, no
interest, no ambition, your stomach
and liver are out of order. But
Mother Seigel’s Syrup will set you
right. It will clear your head and
clean your tongue, renew your appetite, tone up your stomach,
stimulate the action of your bowels, make food nourish you,
and give you new strength, new energy, new life.
MOTHER
SEIGEL’S SYRUP
TAKE IT DAILY AFTER MEALS.
m
m
□
g
Bass
SHNS
231 Clarence Street, Sydney,
robbbk COXTD.
- AND ALL STATES
333
SPECIAL appointment
HIS EXCELLENCY
GOyERHOR-GEntRALj
FREE
Colored and Artistic
Post Cards.
NO MONEY WANTED.
Send us your name and address and we will forward you 12 packets, each
containing 6 of our colored and high art Post Cards to sell for us at 6d.
per pacuet. When you have sold the cards, return us our 65., and we will
send you for your trouble any present you may choose from the list of
jewellery which we forward. By continuing the sale of our cards you
can earn a Ladies' or Gent.’s Silver Watch and Chain.
Remember, we want to do business with you again, and to do this
we must give you full satisfaction. We take all the risk. You
can return the cards if not sold. We have no connection with
bnm
any other Firm. We are the largest dealers in post cards in Australia, ana import our
jewellery, or we could not make you this liberal offer. Be the first in your district. Our post
cards sell at once, wherever seen.
REGAL POST CARD CO. 126 bond st„ Sydney.
&
Rat—tat—tat
Whoever they are, whenever they come, there’s always
something to fit the time and the occasion in “ Skipper ”
Sardines. Just a few turns of the key and a meal is ready
to serve—dainty and delicious enough to set before a king.
Skipper Sardines
Sole Proprietors : ANGUS WATSON & Co., Newcastlc-on-Tyne, England.
Keep smiling—there’s always Skipper Sardines ”
Conjuring Tricks, Puzzles, Surprise 8 Joke Novelties
LOOK AND LAUGH GLASS.
bnmg
See the Passing Show.
Your friends gro-
tesquely photo-
graphed—stout people
look thin —thin people
look stout. The
Laughing Camera
furnishes all this and
more. By getting a
focus on passingpedes-
trians, horses, wag-
gons, trains, trams,
etc., the most gro-
tesque and ludicrous
pictures are wit-
nessed. All grow fat from laughter. It is well and
strongly made, andcannot get out of order. Price 1/-,
post free anywhere.
THE U.S.A. LIQUID PISTOL.
Will
stop the
in o 8 t
vicious
dog or man without
permanent injury.
Invaluable for cy-
clists, unescorted
ladies, cashiers,
night-watchmen,
homes, etc. Has more
effect on beggars and
tramps than a watch-
k;
isSSZ
dog. Fires and recharges by pulling trigger. Over
20 shots in one loading. Reloading unlimited. It
creates great amusement for young and old, it is
strongly made of polished nickel, and is one of the
most useful, durable, reliable and economical novel-
ties ever produced. Used with water or ammonia.
Price, post free anywhere, 3/-
H. L. Hutchinson L-
New York Novelty Company.
710 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
Efel
rr n 8
PUZZLE PURSE.
The Latest and Best Puzzle Purse on the market.
Even our most industrious puzzle enthusiasts baffled.
Three entirely different moves before purse can be
opened. It is made of superior leather, with inside
pocket, and strong polished nickel frame. Illustrated
directions enclosed. Price, post free anywhere, 2/».
Do not miss this chance of obtaining one of the best
and most useful puzzles ever produced.
PUZZLE POCKET KNIVES.
ĝbnm
A Puzzle Pocket
Knife is one of
the most useful
noveliiesobiain-
able. Best qual-
ity steel blade,
buff horn hand-
les, spring back.
Puzzle to shut as well as to open. Makes a splendid
knife for general use, also a superior rabbiter’s knife.
Price, with full directions, 2/-; post free any-
where, or same quality in larger size, 3/2 post free.
Postal Address—BOX 3, HAYMARKET POST OFFICE, SYDNEY. Write for Price Lists, free upon application.
Branches—lll KING STREET; 25 and 27 OXFORD STREET. SYDNEY.
ON THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound ; containing upwards of Three hundred
of “Hop’s” best drawings. Full Bulletin size-
Price, 21s.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“The Hack”: Remarks “Quidam,” on the growing
tendency of the Australian public to patronise the
big universal provideries (B. 17/8/l’l) : “Customers
are undoubtedly benefiting by the concentration of
business.” To which, from long and wide experience
of “business” of the class referred to, I reply:
“Customers are undoubtedly doing nothing of the
sort.” Of course, the provideries undersell their
competitors in a few things ( every trader has his
“draw-lines”) ; but it will be found by anyone who
chooses to make a proper test that, if anything, the
small shops sell cheaper. I myself “kept shop” for
eight years ; and could—and did —always undersell
my big competitors in the lines I dealt in (books,
stationery, fancy goods, etc.) ; yet hundreds of
people would walk past my door daily, or spend 6d.
on tram fares, to buy a 3d. packet of' envelopes or
a shilling toy trumpet, from my millionaire rival a
couple of miles away. Why did they do it? They
were drunk with glare! Besides having been a shop-
keeper, I was for nine years a commercial traveller,
so I’m not talking theory. “Quidam” remarks that
the big provideries buy direct from the makers, have
no middlemen to keep, make no bad debts, and have
no waiting for return of capital. All these things
are true also of hundreds of small shopkeepers, and
the only real advantage their big rivals have over
them is that, by buying in larger quantities, they
get a slightly larger discount. The statement that
the big provideries make no bad debts is also only
partially true. “Quidam” forgot to compare the
rents that have to be paid for the centrally-situated
emporiums with those of their small competitors,
also the advertising bills (one Melbourne firm some
time ago stated that advertising cost it over £lO,OOO
per annum ; and it was by no means the largest ad-
vertiser in Melbourne, either). Next, consider the
constant rebuilding of and alterations to premises,
in which—merely to attract attention —the pro-
videries indulge. Consider, finally, that the small
trader almost invariably both works in, and man-
ages, his business; and all this means prevention of
waste and dishonesty, etc. ; whereas the providery
proprietor seldom does either, but employs a highly-
paid manager to supervise his affairs. If reflection
on these matters doesn’t convince “Quidam” of the
truth of my contention, let him test the matter for
himself by giving duplicate orders for a pound’s
worth (or thereabouts) of groceries respectively to
the Mammoth Mug-Trap and Mr. Littlechap. Pro-
vided the orders are identical in every respect, and
not “readied up” on the basis of the Mug-Trap’s
“draw-lines,” I’ll let “Quidam” call me a liar if
he doesn’t make that twopence-ha’penny saving he
refers to on the goods bought from Littlechap. As
regards “Quidam’s” innocent wonderings whether,
when the big firms have wiped out the small men,
they will fight each other or amalgamate and raise
prices, I reply bv asking: “Did the Sugar Trust
raise prices when it had gained the field for itself?
Did the American Beef Trust? Did the Oil Trust?
Did the Harvester Trust? Did they?” Well, there
you are I
* * * *
The Union Co., of Maoriland, is clearing its
throat to raise a loud and cheerful shout re “the
biggest ship owned south of the Line,” as soon as its
new Vancouver-Auckland-Sydney liner takes the
water. That vessel is being built by John Brown
and Co., of Clydebank (Scotland), the folk who
threw together the Lusitania. It will have a length
of 522 ft., and gross tonnage of something between
13,000 and 14,000. The boilers and combination
turbine and reciprocating engines will shove the con-
traption along at a speed of 17 knots, fully loaded.
It will stow away the population of a tidy-sized
township in its gilt-edged and velvet-cushioned happy
home, as its accommodation for passengers alone
will run out at well over 800. The co. expects to
bust the customary bottle of fizz over its bows, and
slide it down into the sea in about a year.
A wholesale grocery firm in Adelaide lately told
the Board of Health that it was up against an odd
difficulty. 1$ has about 100 cases of tinned jams
which have wandered from their stacks before getting
labelled. They are certainly good stuff, by some good
maker, but nobody knows what maker, or what
stuff. To label them merely “Jam” would be bad
business as well as illegal; and the firm does not see
its way to label them: “This is pretty sure to be all
right,” or (like the American waiter, to a customer
who was doubtful about taking hash) : “Be a sport!”
The Board says it is sorry, but before food can be
turned loose on the public of South Aus., there must
be someone to be shot at if it should prove to be un-
wholesome. So the anonymous article remains in a
corner, like the cheap hen-fruit in Barrie’s story,
which, among the “Eggs, fresh,” and “Eggs, new-
laid,” and “Eggs warranted,” announced themselves
modestly as “Eggs.”
* » * •
“Castaway” (from Fogtown, where the agricul-
tural immigrants come from): The formation of
foreign companies to carry out whaling operations
in the southern ocean leads me to ask why my own
countrymen do not go in for the business on a large
scale. There’s money in it, as you might hazard a
guess when I tell you that from 1904 to 1911 the
Norwegians have floated nearly 50 whaling com-
panies, with a cash capital of over £2,000,000, that
dividends from 30 to 100 per cent, have been paid,
and that not a single company is in pawn. It was
Captain Carl Larsen, well known in Port Melbourne,
and commander of Nordeiiskjold’s Antarctic expedi-
tion, of 1903, who, when he got back, told the Chris-
tiania folk that whales down thereabouts were as
thick as thieves or sardines. The Norwegians
promptly took his word for it, and haven’t regretted
it. Now some Tyne (Eng.) people have sharpened
up a harpoon and got into three steam whalers, a
factory ship and an oil carrier, and are after the
whalebone bird down Capetown way. Also, the Cape-
town Chamber of Commerce is finding money to
equip new ships in the trade; and if the Australian
whaling fleet is to be built in time to take a part
in the hunt, the keels should be on the stocks now.
♦ * * *
“Suburban Radius”: It occurs to me that the State
railways might show better profits if they followed
the passenger as cold-bloodedly as do the Melbourne
Tram and other Private Enterprise cos. The Vic-
torian railways issue concession season tickets to
“committees” —special rate for students, another
special rate for “ladies” who do not earn money,
yet another rate for people earning under £2 a week
and so on. It is a common thing—on the suburban
line I live on, anyway—for the grown-ups of families
to use the ticket issued to one “committee,” so that
poor old State-ownership carries three or four people
for one fare, and that at cut rates. With larrikins
wantonly cutting carriage seats to pieces, and steal-
ing window buffers and nickel fittings, and with
yet other ruffians destroying telephone wires to rail-
way signals, and grandmas travelling on “student”
tickets, poor old State-ownership has such a bad
time of it that one wonders at its survival. I sug-
gest to the Victorian Commissioners that thev
hire a few more detectives, and catch a grizzled
uncle masquerading as a student under 19, or there-
abouts.
PETTICOATS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Melbourne drapers comnlain that woman’s adoption
of the tube skirt means the sex’s abandonment of
petticoats; and as a result they have thousands of
dozens of the discarded garments on their hands.
—Daily paper.
The petticoat, once woman’s pride,
With vast contempt is cast aside;
And Kate and Jane and Eve and Meg
Have each secured at least a leg
Of Adam’s pants, which on the flirt
Is masquerading as a skirt.
While drapers watch their loaded shelves,
And all commiserate themselves,
The dealer who’s uncommon wise
Is slowly buying for a rise.
’Tis plain to his discerning eye
That man will need them by-and-bye.
With eagerness since days remote
Has man pursued the petticoat;
Reversal comes —the frighted one
Perceives it is his turn to run
In skirts, pursued by Kate or Meg,
An angel in one trouser leg.
VICTORIA.
S.S.


Ward Off That
BALD SPOT
with J.S.W.
HAIR FOOD
•■' ■ ■
IS*
I
8
SB
To Every Purchaser from
us of a Bottle of
<5l
e
©
©
Mr f o
s=s^
4
we £>ive, for One Month Only,
A tube of the delightful
J.S.W. Bei&tal Cream
Ward Off That
BALD SPOT
with J.S.W.
HAIR FOOD
absolutely
bnm
To introduce J.S.W. Dental Cream, POE ONE MONTH ONLY
we give to every purchaser sending 3/- for a bottle of either non-oily
or original J.S.W. Hair Food, a tube of J.S.W. Dental Cream—
FREE. 3/- is the usual post free price of the ORIGINAL Hair
Food, and 4/- for the NON-OILY, and as the (post free) price of
the Dental Cream is usually 1/9, you benefit considerably by this
offer. Booklet by Mrs. Stannard (John Strange Winter) containing
full directions how to use all the J.S.W. Toilet Preparations, with
many valuable toilet hints, sent as well.
Fill in this Coupon, cut out, and post NOW.
JOHN STRANGE WINTER, 82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Enclosed herewith is 3/-, for which please send me a
bottle of J.S.W. Hair Food, together with a tube of J.S.W.
Denial Cream, on the understanding that the Dental Cream is
absolutely FREE. State whether you prefer Original or non-
oily Hair Food.
_ Name.
Address.
B.” 16 11/10)1.
These are the other John Strange
Winter Toilet Preparations.
They are all valuable aids to true comeliness. Mrs. Stannard (John Strange
Winter) is a recognised authority on charm culture.
OBTAINABLE ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES.
J.S.W. Lakshmi Lotion, a refresh-
ing skin tonic, 3/- bottle, post
free, 3/6.
J.S.W. Creme Marquise, an ex-
quisite emollient, 2/- tube; post
free, 2/3.
J.S.W. Papier Marquise, the new
face serviette 3/- box; post
free, 3/6.
J.S.W. Savon Marquise, a highly-
refined toilet soap, 1/- cake;
2/10 box of three cakes;
postage, 6d. extra.
J.S.W. Marquise Shaving Stick,
a delightful shaving soap, 1/-
stick; post free, 1/3.
J.S.W. Original Hair Food, 2/6 (post free 3/-); J.S.W. NON-OIL,Y
Hair Food, 3/6 (post free 4/-); and the J.S.W. Dental Cream, 1/6
tube (post free 1/9), are obtainable at these prices from all chemists
and stores. But for the special “Free” offer above, you must write
direct to the address given below.
JOHN STRANGE WINTER
82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
LONDON, PARIS, and VIENNA.
MERIT and VALUE
are linked together in all Stewart .Dawson
Necklets, Pendants and Bracelets, so
as to bring quality jewellery within
the reach of all.
WE PAY POSTAGE—PostaI Orders
always executed by return mail.
bnm
No. D 9361 —Fine Quality White Topaz NECKLET, set in Silver
and Oct. Gold, £4/10/-
No. C 179 Aquamarine and Pearl-set
J)ct. Gold NECKLET, £6/10/-
ghj,
I?. %
Sooxr'
No. D9GB8 —Fine Quality Aquamarine
and Pearl-set 15ct. Gold NECKLET,
£5/10/-
No. C66s4—Golden TO-
PAZ or Anietliyst-set
9ct. Gold NECKLET,
21/-
No. G9743-r-Fine Quality Pearl and
Turquoise-set 15ct. Gold BROOCH,
£6/10/-
C 7175 —Fine Pearl
and Amethyst-set
PENDANT, 25/-
9ct. Gold Secret Snap Oval BAN-
GLES, 5 widths, 35/-, 45/-, 55/-, 65/-,
70/-; 15ct. Gold, 55/-, 70/-, 80/-,
95/-, 100/-
Illustrated Christmas
Gift Catalogue posted
free to any address.
No. CW.73 Fine Pearl
and Amethyst-set
PENDANT, 25/-
STEWART DAWSON 8 CO.
(Australia) LTD.,
STRAND CORNER,
412 George Street, SYDNEY.


Shipping.
P. and 0. BRANCH SERVICE
For DURBAN, CAPETOWN ani LONDON.
SALOON ACCOMMODATION, AMIDSHIPS,
CONVERTED INTO VERY SUPERIOR
ONE CLASS.
LONDON .. .. £l6, £lB k £2O.
CAPETOWN k NATAL, £l3 135., £l5 15s. & £l7 17s.
OIICHRIST, WATT & SAMDERSON, LTD., 7 Bent St.
Melbourne Agents: JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William Street.
Adelaide k Fremantle Agents: GEO. WILLS & CO.
ORIENT LINE,
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN D.
ORVIETO .
OSTERLEV
OTRANTO .
OTWAY .
ORSOVA .
ORONTES
OMR AH
OPHIR
ORAMA (Building)
12,130 Regd. Tons.
12.120
12,124
12.077
12,036
0.023
8,282
6.814
13,000
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy. New and luxur-
ous 12,000-ton Steamers. Cabines-do-luxe; State-
rooms, with bedsteads; Single Berth Rooms, Private
Bathrooms, Electric Lifts and Laundries
Sailing every fortnight from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Eta.,
12 Martin Place, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES.
HEAD OFFICE : MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
FARMERS AND SETTLERS’
LOANS TO £2OOO
on Country Lands, for 31 years. Repayable by
half-yearly instalments.
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES.
HEAD OFFICE: MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
LOANS from 4 to 5 per cent •
on City and Suburban Securities and broad acres,
up to £25,000, with special repayment privileges.
J. H. DAVIES, Secretary.
of |jortb Queensland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director:
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 4 QUEEN VICTORIA STREET, E.C.
Manager: R. R. LOVE.
Bankers: THE LONDON COUNTY & WESTMINSTER
BANK, LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Bank of Hew Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING. GEORGE STREET.
Total Capital Paid-up . . . . £2,000,000
Uncalled Capital .. .. .. £500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits £1,034,405
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea
land, Fiji, Great Bri
tain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
THE.
Australian gank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL . . . . £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,198,344
PAID-UP (30th June, 1911) .. £1,180,812
HEAD OFFICE—George and King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE—2 King William Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS —Sir William P. Manning, Kt., Chair-
man; George J, Sly, Esq., LL.D. ; Ciias. 11.
Myles, Esq. ; Mark Sheldon, Esq.; Arthur S.
Barton, Esq; Prank N. Yarwood, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales & Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the world.
A. P. STEWART, General Manager.
The ...
Queensland National Bank,
Limited
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up . . . . .. 413,494 810
Reserve (in Gov. Stock) . . . . 100,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
Directors: JAS. MILNE, Esq., Chairman: JAMES
MUNRO, Esq. ; JOHN CAMERON, Esq. ; F.
LORD, Esq.
General Mana^i —W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE - - - - BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney & throughout
Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
Shipping:,
REDUCED FARES
To EUROPE
\
BY
N ord JD eutscher L/loyd.
PASSENGERS booked to Egypt, Naples,
Genoa, Algiers, Marseilles. Gibraltar,
London, Antwerp, and Bremen.
All steamers fitted with “Wireless” Installation.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
REGULAR FOUR-WEEKLY MAIL SERVICE
from Sydney and Brisbane, via New Guinea,
by Twin-screw Steamers.
For Passage and Full Particulars apply to —
LOHMANN <fc CO.. Gener til Agents.
7 & 0 Bridge Street, Sydney ;
OSTERMEYER, VAN ROMPAEY & Co., Melbourne;
11. MUECIiE & CO., Adelaide;
L. RATAZZI & CO., Perth and Fremantle;
THOS. BROWN & SONS, Ltd., Brisbane & Townsville.
COLORED POST CARDS, by' Harry J.
Weston “ WEEKLY WORRIES.”
Set of six, posted free, 6d. Bulletin
Newspaper Co. 214 George St., Sydney.
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN, PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
hg
Twin-screw Steamers.
MEDIC , 12,000 tons, to sail about
November 22.
AFftIC, 12,00) tons, to sail about
December 20.
SUEVIC, FERSIC and RUNIC to follow.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy and
Submarine Signalling Apparatus.
Only One Class of" Accommodation!
Fares—Capetown or Durban £l5 15 oto £24 3 0
London . . .. 19 0 oto 30 0 0
Melbourne . . . . 110 0
New York, Boston, Quebec,
Montreal, etc., from 25 0 0
Pamphlets and all other information on application.
TjUGG AG-JC Received Only on Day of Sailing,
DALGETY & COMPANY, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
TH€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth and
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
a New Steamer. b Triple-screw Turbine.
* Third Class only.
FARES —- Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. From £57 £l6 Os. to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban From £3l 10s. £l3 13s. to £l7 17s.
Special Return Tickets available for outward passage
by Orient Line—£ll2 (First-class each way);
£B5 (Second-class Orient).
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £126 10s.
SALOON CABINS on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest stan-
dard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
DALGETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia.
POES THIS APPEAL
TO YOU?
A CRUISE through the coral isles of the Pacific,
affording tourists an opportunity, previously un-
thought of, of viewing the strange inhabitants of
the various South Sea Islands in their still semi-barbarous
state. '
If so, we will be happy to forward you our pamphlet
describing our different island tours.
hjghjxfgcvbn
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., 11 Bridge St., Sydney.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Paid-up
Reserve
Reserve
Capital
Fund -
Liability -
DIRECTORS:
Established 1817.
£2,991,560
£1,989,435
£2,991,560
£7,952,555
The Hon. 0. K. MacKellar, M.Tj.C., Presiden
Senator The Hon. James Thomas Walker.
The Hon. Reginald James Blaok, M.L.C.
Thomas Bnckland. Esq.
Richard Bintiie, Esq.
The lion. Sir .Normand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.C.
Auditors : Alfred George Milson. Esq. ; William Harrington Palmer. Esq. ’ ’
Head Office—George St., Sydney. London Office-29 Threadneedle St., E.C.
With 332 Branches in all the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji and Papua'(New Soutn Wales 135, Victoria 38
Queensland 49, South Australia 5, West Australia 11, New Zealand ,57, Tasmania 1, Fiji 3, Papua t
London 1); and, Agentsand Correspondents throughout Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India, China’
Japan, and the East, Africa, Canada, the United States, South America. Honolulu, and the West Indies’. ’
Cable remittances made to, and Drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills negotiated and
collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney , Limited.
Capital Paid-up . . £1,500,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. 1,460,000 0 0
Reserve Capital .. 1,500,000 0 0
i, £4,460,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
George J. Cohen, Esq .. .. Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Rater, M.L.C. .. Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C. A. J. Onslow Thompson, Esq.
Norman Shelley, Esq.
Auditors: F. W. Hixson, Esq., & W. L. Docker, Esq.
General Manager: T. A. Dibbs.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
H. H. Massie.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
Manager: A. J. Soutar.
Accountant: W. R. Sayers.
Secretary: M. S. Grant.
Branch Accountant: J. Clayton.
Inspectors: W. C. B. Tiley, W. H. Pinhey.
London Office: 18 Birchin - Lane.
Directors: F. H. Dangar, Esq.; Hon. H. S.
Littleton; N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up . . . . . . £532,984 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders . . 159,987 0 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) 76,500 0 0
£769,471 0 0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE. ~~
Gen. Man., Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Man.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London,
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
The C°l° n ' a l (Dutual Qife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and
Annuities without Mutual Liability ; also
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,219,446.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £5,300,000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
THE OCEAN
Accident & Guarantee
Corporation Limited,
Ocean House, 22 Moore Street, Sydney.
171 IRE, ACCIDENT, WORKMEN’S COM-
- PENSATION, PUBLIC RISK, BUR-
CLARY and PLATE GLASS INSURANCES
at Lowest Rates.
The METROPOLITAN “S' d oe" t^r f aT e
INSURANCE COMPANY. LIMITED.
AN AUSTRALIAN OFFICE FOR
AUSTRALIAN INSURERS.
HEAD OFFICE: 30 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
BRANCHES: Victoria, S. Aus., Queensland.
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.,
— FOR
Ordinary 8 Industrial Life Assurance.
Directors:
11. Montgomerie Hamilton, Esq., Chairman
Victor E. Ludlow, Esq., L.R.C.5.1., L.K.Q.C.P.I.
Claude Manning, Esq.
John F. Ure, Esq.
General Manager: J. A. Henderson.
Secretary: Consulting Actuary:
Freeman J. Eaton. W. R. Day, F.I.A.
Head Office:
30 CASfLEREACH ST. (facing Moore St.), SYDNEY.
Queensland :
Metropolitan Buildings,
Adelaide St., Brisbane.
Victoria:
48 Queen St.,
Melbourne.
The Metropolitan” always has vacancies on its
Agency Staff for reliable and trustworthy men.
Ihe'Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
in use since 1596.
CURES :
Austrian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist lor its history—the hook is free—or write
S- GREEN. 210, Lambeth Koad. London” Eny!
Shipping;.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
GERALDTON (W.A.)
S.S. Kyarra (7000), Satur-
day, Nov. 25, and Dec.
23. Transhipping at Fre-
mantle to all N.-West
Ports.
BRISBANE
MAOKAV
Townsville
And Porta North to Oai
S.S. Grantala, Nov. 18.
' (Wireless Telegraphy
S.S. Wollowra, Nov. 25.
Best and Cheapest Route to Goldfieltis.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can be
ascertained on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD,,
Agents. 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE,
THE “ALL-RED” ROUTE.
♦
To VANCOUVER, via AUCKLAND
(N.Z.), FIJI, and HONOLULU,
thence by Rail to any part of
CANADA or UNITED STATES.
The Best Route to Europe.
SAILINGS’:
And every 28 days thereafter.
All Steamers fitted with AVireless Telegraphy.
Illustrated Pamphlets Free on Application.
Agents throughout Canada, United States
and Europe—Canadian Pacific Railway Co.
For full particulars apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George Street, Sydney.
F.-H. —6.
Federal*Houlder-SHire Lines*
STEAM TO LONDON, via SUEZ CANAL.
T.S.S. “AYRSHIRE.”
R.’U? Tons. W. J. PAGE, Commander.
Will be despatched from
BRISBANE, about 2nd December, 1911.
SYDNEY, about 9th December, 1911.
MELBOURNE, about 16th December, 1911.
ADELAIDE, about 23rd December, 1911.
The Saloon accommodation consists of all two-
berth cabins on the upper deck, situated amidships.
The superior third-class accommodation, comprised
of two, four and eight-berth cabins, situated on the
main deck, amidships, with dining room on the
upper deck. Well lighted and ventilated cabins and
spacious decks.
Third-class passengers supplied with fresh pro-
visions from cool chamber throughout the voyage.
Surgeon and Stewardess carried. Electric light
throughout. Return and Round trip tickets issued
via Cape and (or - ) Suez routes. Prepaid passages
arranged.
SALOON. THIRD CLASS.
FARES, £4O. £l3 135., £l7 17s.
From Brisbane, Saloon £2 ; Steerage One Guinea
extra. To be followed at regular four-weekly intervals
by fast twin-screw passenger steamers. For further in-
formation, illustrated books, pamphlets, etc., apply to
BRITISH-INDIA & Q.A. CO., Ltd., Brisbane.
TURNBULL, MARTIN & CO., Brisbane.
BIRT & CO., Ltd., Sydney.
H. JONES & CO., Ltd., Hobart.
McILAVRAITH, McEACHARN & CO., Propty., Ltd.,
Melbourne.
j-LDFIL SMITH k CO.. Ltd.. Adelaide.
CONFIDENTIAL Letters
Rcnjaii) Private .
when the Zanetic
N.S.C. Copying
Book is
used.
-NSC / 200
Patent ZanetiC
copying Book^
fa
You slip your letter
paper into the
holder, write jour letter in ink,-and the copj’ is n’ade
as you write. Letter shown no sign of copying. The
letter i« po“ted and the hook looked up. 400 octavo
(Bin. x sin.) letters, or 200 qu .rto, can he copied in
NSC/100, post free for 3/9 ; or 800 octavo, or 400
quarto, in NSC/200, post free for 5/-. Sample of the
celebrated Zanetic ink paper which produces this
result, free, if stamped envelope sent to
S. B. ZANETIC, Zanetic Works. Welford Road.
LEICESTER, ENGLAND.
Please send Money-Orders, not P.O.’s.
Millars’ Karri 8 Jarrah
Co. (1902), Ltd.
We Supply—
JARRAH Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’ Scant-
ling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS' HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68£ PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
CARBIDE.
For First-Class
Results use
Best
I*~“PERNIX” CARBIDE.
Addresses of Merchants distributing it can be obtained
from AUGUST BLUMENTHAL, LIMITED, 62
Pitt Street, Sydney, Sole Ag nts for Australia.


FXFTY-SECOND REPORT of
The Royal Bank of Queensland Limited
The Directors have pleasure in submitting to the Shareholders the Fifty-second Report, wit
Statement of the Assets and Liabilities of the Bank, and the Auditors’ Report.
The Net Profits for the Half-year, after deducting Rebate on Bills, interest
on Deposits, Land Tax, providing for Contingencies, payment of all ,
charges, and reducing valuation of Bank Furniture and Fittings, amounted £ s. d. £ s. a.
to . . . . . . . . . . .. .... . . .. .. 15,585 17 3
To which is to be added the amount carried forward from last half-year . . 439 7 2
Giving an available balance of .. .. .. .. .. .. £16,025 4 5
Which has been distributed as follows:
To Dividend for the Half-year at the rate of 5 per cent, per annum on all
Shares .. .. .. . . .. .. .. .. .. .. 12,850 5 8
~ Interest on Capital prepaid (at the rate of the dividend). .. .. 361 5 3
„ Income Tax .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 719 18 8
~ Contingency Account .. . . . . .. . . . . . . . . 1,500 0 0
„ Balance carried forward . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . 593 14 10
£16,025 4 5
During the half-year branches have been opened at Kadanga and Roadvale.
i By Order of the Board, EDWD. D. DAY, General Manager.
AGGREGATE BALANCE-SHEET of THE ROYAL BANK OF QUEENSLAND LltwlTtD, 30th Stpiemtoer, Itni.
LIABILITIES.
£ s. d. £ s. d.
Capital—-
69,999 £9 Ordinary
Shares . . . . 629,991 0 0
Less uncalled liabil-
Bills payable . . . . 37,068 18 3
Deposits and other liabilities 1,470,871 1 9
£2,133,449 14 5
ASSETS.
£ s. d. £ s. d.
Coin on hand and Cash
at bankers . . 444.891 9 10
Bullion .. .. 28,612 12 4
Australian Notes . . 53,735 0 0
Queensland Government
Treasury Notes . . 2,759 0 0
Government Stock .. 76,977 0 3
606,975 2 5
Bank premises, furni-
ture, etc 74,491 19 4
Bills discounted and all
other debts due to
the Bank .. .. 1,451,982 12 8
£2,133,449 14 5
Dr.
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT, 30th September, 1911.
Cr.
£ s. d.
To salaries, rent, and
other expenses a t
Head Office and 26
branches . . . . 13,410 6 11
To interest paid and ac-
crued on fixed depos-
its, rebate and ex-
change paid . . 20,950 16 2
To balance
£ s. d.
34,361 3 1
16,025 4 5
£50,386 7 6
s. d.
By balance brought for-
ward
By gross profit for the half-year .
£
439 7 2
. 49,947 0 4
£50,386 7 6
RESERVE FUND.
To Balance
£ s. d.
. . 76,500 0 0
£76,500 0 0
By Balance
Stock..
£ s. d.
invested in Government
76,500 0 0
£76,500 0 0
Audited and found correct.
GKO. FRED SCOTT, B.A. (London)
C. A. CLARKE, A.S.A.A. (Eng.) F.C.P.A.
Auditors.
Brisbane,
10 th October, 1911.
P. L. CARDEW, Chairman.
ED UP. U. PA V, General Manager.
THE BESSES O’ THE POCKET*
«J The Besses o’ the Barn
have gone, but the
Besses o' the Pocket
have come to stay.
(BENIOTO
Built to Beat the Band
The Reeds are made
of Beil Metal, and
are Tunid to Perfec-
tion.
Crackajack Mouth Organs
'W* MADE IN SIX STYLES
Crackajack Professional, 40 Reeds, 3/-
Crackajack Senior, 20 Reeds . . . 2/-
Crackajack Junior, 20 Reeds ... 1/6
Crackajack Double, 40 Reeds ... 1/-
Boss Cracker, 20 Reeds 1/-
Crackajack Cadet, 20 Reeds .... 6d.
SOLD EVERYWHERE
Sole Agents
- ALLAN & CO. PROP. LTD.
Melbourne
I »
r
The most healthy drink in
hot weather.—
Montserrat'
LIME JUICE
is a pure natural fruit juice which cools
and purifies the system; it is free from
alcoholic risk. The children love it;
SUPPLIED IN TWO FORMS—
Unsweetened, i.e., Plain Lime Juice. Sweetened, i.e. Lime Juice Cordial.
DinnefordsJ
Magnesia
DINNEFORD’S
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see that
“Dinneford &Co.”
is on every bottle
and label.
MAGNESIA
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
ICILMA SHAMPOOS.
TOO MUCH or TOO LITTLE washing ruins the hair. The ICILMA shampoos allow
you to clean the hair WITH OR WITHOUT WETTING, just as your hair needs it
—a wet shampoo with ICILMA SHAMPOO SACHETS every two or three weeks,
and a dry shampoo with ICILMA HAIR POWDER whenever the hair is dull, dusty or
greasy, and wetting is inconvenient. Both ICILMA shampoos contain the wonderful
ICILMA elements which benefit and beautify the hair. -
3d. Packet all Chemists and Stores.
Send 3d. Stamps and we will send you Post Free one to try.
ICILMA DEPOT, Dept. H, 139 York Street, Sydney.
THE BANK OF AUSTRALASIA.
(Incorporated by Royal Charter, 1835.)
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. £1,600,000
Reserve Fund (£500,000 is invested in 21 per cent. Consols, the remainder
being used in the business of the Bank) . . .. .. .. .. .. 1,860,000
Reserve Liability of Proprietors Under the Charter .. .. . . . . 1,600,000
£5,060,000
HALF-YEARLY REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS OF THE BANK OF AUSTRALASIA,
With the Accounts for the Half-year to the 10th April, 1011.
Presented to the Proprietors at Half-yearly General Meeting, Held on Thursday, sth October, 1911.
REPORT.
The Directors submit to the proprietors the balance-sheet as at 10th April last, with the Profit
Account for the half-year to that date. After providing for rebate on bills current, for British and
Colonial rates and taxes, and for all bad and doubtful debts, the net profit for the half-year amounted
to £198,459 19s. lid.
To this sum must be added £15,725 6s. lid. brought forward from previous half-year, making a
total of £214,185 6s. 10d., out of which the directors have declared a dividend for the half-year at. the
rate of 12 per cent, per annum, or £2 Bs. per share, and a bonus of 16s. per share, free of income tax.
The dividend and bonus -will absorb £128,000, and the directors have further appropriated £50,000
to the Reserve Fund, and £20,000 in reduction of the cost of bank premises. There will then remain
£16,185 6s. lOd. to be carried forward to the next account.
The dividend and bonus will be payable in London and in the colonies on 6th October.
Since the date of the last report new branches have been opened at Bellingen, Dorrigo, Kempsey,
and South Grafton, in New South Wales; Cooyar, in Queensland ; Wagin and Wickepin, in Western
Australia; and Mangonui and Wairoa, in New Zealand; and the branches at Junee, in New South
Wales, and Coolgardie, in Western Australia, have been closed.
A. WHITWORTH, Chairman.
4 Threadneedle Street, London, 25th September, 1911.
PROFIT ACCOUNT from OCTOBER 10, 1910, to APRIL 10, 1911.
Undivided profit, October 10, 1910 .. .. .. .. .. .. £143,725 011
Less dividend and bonus, March 31, 1911 . . .. . . .. . • • • 128,000 0 0
£15,725 6 11
Profit for the Half-year to April 10, 1911, after deducting re-
bate on bills current at balance date ( £6,175 Is. lid.), and
making provision for all bad and doubtful debts . . .. £382,851 4 9
Less:
I. Charges of Management—
Colonial —
Salaries and allowances to the colonial staff,
including the superintendent’s depart-
ment,. and 194 branches and agencies. .
General expenses, including rent, repairs,
stationery, travelling, etc.
London —
Salaries
General expenses
11. Rates and Taxes —-
Colonial, £19,342 17 4
London, £16,240 8 10
Total amount of unappropriated profit
From which deduct —
For transfer to reserve fund
For reduction in cost of bank premises . .
Leaving available for dividend ..
£105,685 0 6
29,920 11 9
9,869 2 6
3,333 3 11
£148,807 18 8
35,583 6 2 184,391 4 10 198,459 19 11
214,185 6 10
£50,000 0 0
20,000 0 0 70,000 0 0
£144,185 6 10
BALANCE-SHEET, APRIL 10, 1911.
Dr.
Circulation
Deposits
Bills payable
Capital
Reserve Fund
Profit account,
undivided
balance
LIABILITIES.
£515,846 0 0
18,422,949 1 8
and other liabilities 2,836,032 10 6
£21,774,827 12 2
. £1,600,000 0 0
1,860,000 0 0
144,185 6 10
3,604,185 6 10
£25,379,012 19 0
ASSETS. Cr.
Specie, bullion, Government notes,
and cash balances .. .. £4,990,238 5 7
Loans at call and at short notice 2,618,0,00 0 0
British Government securities . . 1,073,470 4 6
India and Colonial Government
securities and other investments 751,508 18 8
Bills receivable, advances on se-
curities and other assets .. 15,536,932 0 8
Bank premises in Australia, New
Zealand and London .. . . 108,863 9 7
£25,379,012 19 0
R. W. JEANS, General Manager. F. H. BLOGG, Accountant.
We have examined the cash and securities in London and the London books, and have verified the
transfers from the several branches in the Commonwealth and New Zealand, and we beg to report that,
in our opinion, the foregoing is a full and fair balance-sheet of the bank, and that it exhibits a true and
if. i-u» fi, n„r,u’a ofFoiro na shnwn hv the honks. The investments are valued
correct view of the state of the bank’s affairs as shown by the books
at market price or under.
London, 20th September, 1911.
WELTON, JONES, and Co., Auditors.
flinging for MoreH
ii
3*
/A
Bird’s
Custard
stands alone in its absolute
purity, delicious flavor and
rich, egg like creaminess*
Has stood the test of time
Over 70 years 1 success, a
Contains New and Remark-
able Healing Properties.
PETERS’
PILE CURE
The Infallible Remedy for the cure of
HEMORRHOIDS-PILES.
Cured within 24 Hours. Mr. Al-
bert J. Pericr, 386 George St., Sydney,
writes :—“I had tried many so-called Pile
Cures without result, but thanks to your
really wonderful remedy, the last at-
tack of my tormentors was short indeed,
as within 24 hours of the first application
of Peters’ Pile Cure my trouble
had vani: hed.”
Peters’ Pile Cure is Easy to
Apply.
All Chemists and Storekeepers.
Price 1/3
Large Box (5 times the quantity) 5/-
Elliott Bros., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane
Wholesale Distributors for Australia.
AGENTS aND
CANVASSERS
Wanted all over Australia, N.Z. and South Sea Islands to
accept district monopoly for ever 100 American
and Continental quick selling special
Novelties. Saleable in every home, Agents settled or
travelling men and women can make big money. Lines
suitable for every district. Address Witll £1 gcr,
3 Waterloo Chambers. George St. Sydney. N.S.W.
Hotels, &c.
George, hotel,
St. Hilda., Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
BRISBANE VISITORS.
Xzhe HOTEL VICTORIA,
Victoria Place, South Brisbane, is MOST CENTRAL.
LARGE NEW BEDROOMS, with all latest Modem
Conveniences. Tariff : 6/- Day; 30/- Week.
Oval Billiard Tahle. JOHN BROSNAN, Proprietor.
Grand Central Hotel.
ADELAIDE, SOOTH AUSTRALIA.
THIS HOTEL is the best appointed in the
Commonwealth. CENTRAL and COMFORT-
ABLE. Magnificent Dining Hall, Elegant'
Drawing Rooms, Spacious Winter Garden and
Lounges. H Promenade, Roof Garden with Tennis
Court. *[[ Sumptuous Apartments (Suites and
Single Rooms).
Hot and Cold Water throughout. Elevators run-
ning day and night. Electric Car passes the door.
TARIFF FROM 12s. PER DAY.
H Private Dinners, Afternoon Teas, At Homes
and Wedding Parties a Specialty.
Telegraphic Address : D. WALKER BELL,
“ Git and Central,” Manager.
Adelaide. ’Phone 3284.
THE Australian Magazine. THE LONE
HAND, the National Monthly. Price 6d


Martin’s Pills are sold by all chemists and
stores in Australasia. Ladies recommend
them. Be sure you get the genuine with the
signature, Martin, Chemist, Southampton.*
A Christmas Suggestion.
It is as difficult to choose the perfect
Christmas present as the perfect wedding
present. Now is the time when you are
worrying over the Christmas reminder
you will send to your friends overseas.
The perfect Christmas present for the
other side of the world must be easily
packed ; it must not be fragile; it must
not be the sort of gift that could be
bought in your friend’s town; it must be
uniquely Australian—in short, it must
be the half-yearly bound volume of The
Lone Hand.
This gift, the May-October volume, is
bound handsomely in cloth with gold em-
bossings. It is the essence of Australia
—as characteristically Australian as the
scent of gum leaves. Not only is it a
beautiful present, but it is a, great
national advertisement for your own
country. It tells your friends overseas
more about Australia than all the letters
you could write.
As the volumes are now being bound,
it is advisable for you to send in your
order at once —Price, G/6. Postage:
Australasia, 1/2; otherwise, 2/4.
The only guarantee readers have of
getting The Lone Hand regularly
month by month, without missing a num-
ber, is to subscribe. The subscription
rates are: —
Australasia: 6/- per annum',, post free;
or 3/- for six months, post free.
Abroad: 9/- per annum, post free.
DIFFERENT TO OTHERS.
Chamberlain’s Tablets do not act upon the bowels
like most laxatives and cathartics. They possess such
tonic properties that they soon strerigthen o even the
weakest stomach, so it can properly and voluntarily
perform its functions. Chamberlain’s Tablets never
cause griping or pains of any sort.*
DR. SHELDON’S GIN DILLS.
For all Kidney Troubles, use Dr. Sheldon’s Gin
Pills. One of these pills contains in a concentrated
form all the curative properties of a pint of the
finest gin. together with other important ingredients
recognised by the medical profession as being reme-
dial agents of the highest value for the kidneys and
allied organs. Price, 1/6 and 2/6.*
?/
Shirt and
Under-
pants
in one.
We hold the
Queensland agency-
tor this fine Patent.
It is a Shirt tljfit
goes on and off like
a coat, and at the
same time does away
with the necessity
for underpants.
It assures a clean, unrumpled bosom, and
makes studs easy to adjust. It is made of a
quality of material that will give hard wear.
We have it in :
FRENCH CAMBRIC—6/6, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6.
IN SPECIAL ZEPHYR SHIRTING—S/6, 6/6,
7/6, 8/6.
IN FINEST CEYLON SHIRTING—6/6, 7/6, 8/6,
10/6.
IN SILK AND WOOL SHIRTING—IO/6, 12/6,
15/6, 217-.
IN ALL SILK—IS/6, 21/-, 25/-, 30/-.
Finney, Isles U Co.
LIMITED,
The Big BlocK,
BRISBANE.
IN BANANA LAND
“Hughenden” : Re biggest shearing tallies
for a year. I reckon it’s Dan Cooper’s. He
robbed 37,050 overcoats in 1909; his best
was 316 a day (8 hours 40mins.), and the
man who beats that is too good for any but
first place. ,
“D.” : From thaS. M. Herald (s/11/’ll), :
The Methodist Synod at Cairns yesterday carried
the following resolution: “This Synod hears with
pleasure and appreciation the effort being made by
the Rev. F. C. Spurr to prevent the McVea-Johnson
fight taking place in Australia.”
Johnson has announced his retirement from
the ring; Hugh Mclntosh has stated that
the big black isn’t coming to Australia, and
there is no fight projected anywhere between
him and Me Yea. In all the circumstances,
the spirited operations of Spurr and the
Methodists rather suggest a campaign to
protest against the prevalence of iced lager
in Sheol.
October 22 was the 50th anniversary of
the death of A. S. Lyon, the father of the
Queensland press. In February, 1846, he ■
convened a meeting at the Victoria Hotel,
Brisbane, to consider the question of estab-
lishing a newspaper. The chicken that meet-
ing hatched was the Brisbane Courier,
which broke from the shell on July 20, 1846.
After three years on the Courier, Lyon
gave up newspaper work for a time, but
afterwards helped to start the Moreton Bay
Free Press. He next oecame editor of the
North Australian, which first appeared
on October 2, 1855; and on June 11, 1858,
he issued the first number of the Darling
Downs Gazette. He was only 44 when he
left off.
The real curse of Western Queensland is
the fly. He is übiquitous, venomous, unes-
capable, inevitable as death —or drought.
Yet Queensland children are taught by their
“Century Reader,” “To kill a fly is cruel, so
never hurt it!” This is what comes of print-
ing your school literature in England.
Despite a long course of prosecution and
penalties, no fewer than six milk adultera-
tors faced the Brisbane Bench last week
and were duly fined for aqueous sophistica-
tion. The cancellation of a few of the
swindlers’ licenses would put an end to this
form of murder in a surprisingly short time.
Why shouldn’t the convicted cow-man be
struck off the rolls the same as the con-
victed solicitor?
Queensland doesn’t seem able to get any
for’arder in wheat production. Out of the
Commonwealth’s total of 95,262,463 bushels
reaped last harvest, the northern State's
little lot was only 1,022,373 bushels; and
the Flyspeck on the bottom of the map yielded
a good deal more than that. Every other
State has added to the weight of
grain that its backbone has had to hump to
the miller’s; but Queensland is, on the aver-
age, a smaller producer now than it was 10
years ago.
THE HEATHEN IN HIS BLINDNESS.
CANNIBAL HOSTESS : "I'm afraid I must apologise for a badly-cooked dinner. We have
had SO much trouble with servants lately. We've changed cooks three times
within the past week."
DISTINGUISHED CANNIBAL GUEST (genially): “I beg you won't apologise. You know the
old adages: ‘Heaven sends missionaries, but the Devil sends cooks.'”
What is alleged to be the only toll bridge
in the Commonwealth crosses the Burnett
between North and South Bundaberg; and,
according to Home Secretary Appel, it woh’t
be long before the charge is abolished, and
the bridge put on the free list.
One of two ladies who claimed to be wives
of a steward who wept down in the Yongala,
applied- for probate to his will. “Did your
husband ever lie to you?” was a question put
to the applicant in court. “All men ate
liars,” answered madame, delicately and sen-
tentiously.
Suburban Brisbane is seething because
Railway Commissioner Evans proposes to
abandon the corridor type of car, and resur-
rect the dog-box system of architecture. The
latter is English ; but Brisbane, fortunately,
doesn’t own the English climate, and it is
yelling into Evans’s ear that it doesn’t want
to be stifled. The official yarn is (1) that it
takes too long to empty the corridor car, and
(2) that the corridor cars on the Queens-
land railways are too heavy. Brisbane isn't
so rushed for time that it can’t afford a sys-
tem which works all right on the Sydney and
Melbourne suburban lines, not to mention
tnose of the Yankee Jonathan; and if the
Queensland cars are heavy, that might be a
very good reasqn for building them lighter,
but it isn't a good excuse for reverting to
either the stuffy fowl-pen or the bullock-
waggon.
It pays to be beaten sometimes. In the
1908 Assembly elections “Tommy” O’Sulli-
van was thrown out at Warwick. Wullie
Ividston thereupon called him to the Council,
on the principle that a man whom the people
won’t have in the Assembly for even three
years is obviously the right man to be lifted
into the Council for life ; and O’Sullivan was
able to keep his job as Attorney-General. So
it happens that in the last financial year
O’Sullivan drew £lOOO salary as Attorney-
General and £1173 as professional fees for
services rendered the Crow'n-Vpatronage con-
ferred, of course, by the head of the Justice
Department. He is thus actually fqr better
off as a Legislative Councillor than he would
have been had lie won his seat for Warwick
and remained exposed to the ordinary risks
of elections.
Pak-a-Pu!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Gambling is prevalent. Owing to legal difficul-
ties the police are unable to suppress two-up. . . .
A large “sweep” business is done with Hobart. The
police made successful raids on pak-a-pu in Cairns
and . Townsville.-— Q. Police Commissioner’s annual
report.
When Bill and Joe are joyful at a bout of pitch and
toss,
When Fagin teaches ’prentice hands strange games
“upon the cross,”
We do not fret and flurry till the worry makes us ill,
For Satan on these simple souls must work his
wicked will;
But we boil to see ’em play at pak-a-pu,
We make a sudden dash at Hop and Sue;
We may nod and fall asleep while they run the
wicked sweep—but we can’t stand a game of
pak-a-pu!
Oh, do not call us squeamish! We have had our
little fling ;
We have cornered wheat and mutton in the tightest
little ring ;
In the depth of bitter Winter, when the wind was
sharp and cruel,
We have blocked the poor consumer from his cus-
tomary fuel;
But deadly is our set on pak-a-pu,
On capers that are cut by Bong and 800.
We have “honors” for the plotter who makes prices
hot and hotter —but we cannot stand a thing
like pak-a-pu!
We are living “East of Suez,” and we can’t be over-
nice ;
We give a gen’rous latitude to fashionable vice;
We stretch a hand forgiving to the spieler and the
shark,
And half forgive the artist that garrotts us in the
dark ;
But death are we on Hop and Lin and Loo ;
We know the crooked gamble that they do ;
You will always find us willin’ to be gentle with the
villain, but we’ve got a mortal down on pak-a-
pu !
And this is then the moral of our simple little song:
It isn’t plainly sinning that our rulers reckon wrong;
In case you sin with judgment, you need have no
fear of quod,
For it’s sinning out of fashion that is punished with
the rod ;
And so it is from China to Peru;
We lay the lash on Hop and Sin and Sue,
And the balance-sheet to square for the rascals that
we spare, we make it doubly hot for pak-a-pu! !
QUEENSLAND.
F. BORN.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, November 11, 1911.
My Dear Thargomindah,—
The Agent-General Robinsons have beaten
to Toowoomba through a gale of tea, and
the decks are still awash. On arrival, they
ran into the teeth of a reception fomented
by Minister for Agriculture Tolmie and his
sisters—the heavy-weight of the Cabinet is
still unshackled in a matrimonial sense —and
escaped in ballast with a bouquet hanging
at the yard-arm. When last signalled, they
were 'plugging through a haze northward
bound, and a heavy storm of refreshments
was showing on the horizon.
Our baby University, which is the chosen
pet toy of Vice-frugality, had a day out on
Friday, when his Ex. and Lady Mac enter-
tained the teaching staff and undergrads,
with the cup that cheers curates, and other
tame bacchanalians. In the evening, the
Senate and professorial body invited the
Chiel to Parliament House, where they had
the glad sardine on toast and a wee drap
Scawtcli where it wouldn’t do any harm.
Digby Denham’s nephew, who has, at odd
times, wrested various arts and science de-
grees from German and Maoriland Univer-
sities, has been appointed lecturer in chem-
istry at the local Uni. Which reminds me
that Digby’s Rhodes scholar son is also in
good trim for a chair somewhere. Don’t
think it" would be much use him specialising
in political economy though, because long
before he could drum the rudiments into the
old man, he (the o.m.J will have been gal-
loped out of his job by an enlightened and
painstaking Democracy.
Talking about Rhodes scholars, Castle-
how, B.A. (Sydney and Cambridge), will re-
turn to Australia this month. He will so-
journ here with his parents a while before
leaving for your narts, where a position at
the Sydney ’Varsity recently tempted him
and he did fall.
His Ex., with the Foxton aide in attend-
ance, motored to Ascot this afternoon, while
the lady of the. manor, to square things,
blew into a Y.W.C.A. bazaar. A select few
of the. Very Best, headed by Pope Cooper
and Miss, tea’d at the Macgregor expense on
the committee verandah. Amongst the
worldly who went to the races was Mayoress
Diddams. She this week escorted her hus-
band back from a jaunt to Cairns and other
northern picnic spots. On the lawns of the
course the white lingerie frock, with acres of
hand embroidery and miles of hand-made
lace, held its own with anything worn. Mrs.
Arthur Feez and her Maoriland guest, Miss
Green, Mrs. William Nindooinbah Collins
and Mrs. W. Bulcock, wore the finest sam-
ples of such frocks, while Mrs. Moon, in
grey, was an easy winner in the matter of
“coloreds.”
A recent engagement which has interested
us concerns Miss Nellie Zichy-Woinarski, a
niece of Mrs. T. M. King, to Dr. Nankivell.
of Melbourne. Miss Woinarski belongs to a
musical family, and is welt known in Bris-
bane. Another impending partnership will
be signed up in Melbourne when one of our
’Varsity lecturers, Shand to wit, will per-
suade a Melbourne lady that Brisbane is a
desirable place to live in, even for the
married. Anyhow, if one can get used to
marriage, the locality will come easy.
Mrs. E. B. Wareham, with daughter Elsie
and Miss Jo Qualtrough, will visit Westralia
early next year. The sea-trip will just put
the final touch to Miss Wareham’s greatly-
improved health.
Passed to the Unknown this morning, 11.
11. Smith, one of Bananaland’s oldest legis-
lators. Deceased was a civil engineer by pro-
fession, but for many years spent his time
growing sugar-cane or sitting in the Legis-
lative Assembly as member for Bowen. He
leaves a widow, one son, a daughter, and a
vacancy in the Council. He fled upstairs to
that branch of the Legislature in 1904.
Cupid is at it again, the two victims in
this case being pretty little Hilda Baynes,
younger daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Ernie
Baynes, and “Billy” Forresft, younger son of
the late John Forrest. iVliss Baynes is a
fearless horsewoman and an ardent devotee
of the ancient game of golf. _ Don’t know
what particular athletic exercise the pros-
pective bridegroom favors, but you ought to
see what he can do with a cheque book with-
out calling for help ! He’ll commence doing
it for two sometime next year. Before then,
however, Vera Baynes will accept the small
golden badge of possession from Douglas
Corrie. So that the house of Baynes will
spread its blessings with a lavish hand.
Next March, Dr. Malcolm Cameron will
“shout” daughter Cassie a trip to relatives
in Dublin, and thence to more relatives in
Canada. Her pals reckon it serves her right.
Ben Davies and Esta d’Argo have de-
parted from us. The former requested
Maud to come into the garden in a voice cal-
culated to coax the lady from her bed at
midnight on a Friday, even if she had to
pass a wall-eyed cat on the stairs. As for
Esta d’Argo, if I had had a bun with me, I
would have handed it up when she sang
ballads to her own accompaniment.
Barrister Tom McLeod, one of whose sis-
ters married a sprig of English nobility,
and who is by way of being an airman, lias
been so successful with flights in the back
paddock with his own little craft that he
will make for Britain by the next Orient
liner. His sister will accompany him, as
will the air-clipper, and patents will be
taken out for her (the clipper, not the sis-
ter) on arrival, or as soon after as pos-
sible.
Thargomindah, dear, do you believe that
the Garden of Eden has withered, and that
our attractive ancestress has not bequeathed
her desires for the forbidden? I’m led to
ask you this by the fact that the Liquor Bill
before the House has unearthed lots of good
people who still believe that if “No License”
is carried, we will cease from blue snakes
and heliotrope centipedes. I may mention
that none of those people come from Maine
or Maoriland.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
Tt is estimated that there are now
17,000,000 acres of prickly pear in Banana-
land —an area more than emial to the whole
of the Apple Island. And the spiny curse
was introduced as a garden vegetable only
50 years ago. No wonder the northern State
is feeling worried.
The Brisbane Courier recently published
from its files of 50 years ago an account of a
banquet given to George Bowen, Banana-
land’s first Governor, when he visited. Gayn-
■ dah, and mentioned that John Connolly res-
ponded to the toast of “Prosperity to Gayn-
dah.” The ancient is still living at Gayn-
dah, and has a notion that Death won’t
bowl him out till he has scored a century.
He is now in the 90’s.
“A.Y.A.” : To fill 63,000 square miles with
education would seem to require about five
universities and 217 schools, yet this is the
area of the district of Cunnamulla West
assigned to one itinerant pedagogue. There
are other long-distance educational districts
in Queensland. Cloncurry 11. has 60,000
square miles assigned to one teacher, and
Longreach 35,000 square miles. Some of
those square miles must look rather elongated
to the man with the three R’s in his billycan.


nbmfgn
AIR-GAS
LIGHT.
1
If the squatter, store-
keeper or country house-
holder will acquaint him-
self with the ATMOSLITE
machine—noting its eco-
nomic, safety and auto-
matic advantages all
argument or prejudice
will be overcome in favorof
this new machine. Begin
now —write for literature.
Brandt Bros., Ltd.
LAMPHOUSE,
236 Pitt St., Sydney.
Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
Cyclone rotary hand fan
CREATES A CONTINUOUS CURRENT
OF COOL WIND
The Best Fan Ever invented
No trouble or fatigue, as with ordinary
fans. You merely press your thumb and
the bright aluminium blades revolve rapidly,
producing a refreshing stream of cool air. Fan
is strongly made, will last years with ordinary
care The Union Company,
299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
ghmngbn
Price 1/6 Each
Two for 2/6
we pay carriage
Amusements.
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee anil Manager : ALLAN HAMILTON.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
ALLAN HAMILTON’S SEASON.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF BEAUTY AND THE BARGE.
IMPORTANT ANNOUNCEMENT!
SATURDAY NEXT, NOVEMBER 18.
The Romantic Sensational Drama of Indian Life,
WHY MEN LOVE WOMEN.
POPULAR PRICES. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
National amphitheatre. Sydney.
Sole Proprietors—Brennan's Amphitheatres, Limited
THE BEST IN VAUDEVILLE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Matindes : WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS.
MAUD MORTIMER. ARMSTRONG & VERNE.
LORDY’S DOGS. SMITE & SMOTE.
ARCHIE GLEN. THE BRENNANS.
WALKER & SCOTT. THE TYRELLS.
And OUR GREAT DOUBLE CO.
Amateur Trial Competitions, Fridav Evenings.
Prices as usual. Plans at Theatre.
>|> H E LYCEUM, SYDNEY.
SPENCE It’S PICTURES LTD.
Direction : 0; SPENCER.
THE PREMIERE PICTURE HOUSE
IN AUSTRALIA.
PRICES AND PLAN AS USUAL.
WE CHANGE MONDAYS AND THURSDAYS.
DEL P HI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction and Management, Gkorok Marlow, Ltd.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF SWEET COUNTY KERRY.
SATURDAY NEXT, NOVEMBER 18,
MR. GEORGE MARLOW presents, for the first time here,
A ROMANCE IN IRELAND,
Irish Musical Comedy Drama.
Box Plan at Elvy’s and White Rose Confectionery.
POPULAR PRICES—3s., 2s. & Is. Early Door. 6d. extra.
mHE BULLETIN CHRISTMAS ISSUE.
J SPECIAL and ENLARGED EDITION.
Published December 14. PRICE 6<L
Amusements.
theatres,
YRIC AND COLONIAL Svrinpv
' Nos. 1 and 2, George Street, Sydney.
Direction J. D- Williams.
PERPETUAL MOTION from II a -™- Jj® iV-Fv**
PATRONISED BY 60,000 PEOPLE WEEKLY. ._
Run Under the Continuous Show System now the »a 0 e
of England and America. -
English and American Prices of Admission.
Same Prices at Each Theatre :
STALLS 3d. DRESS CIRCLE 6d. ■
ENTIRE CHANGE OF PROGRAM MES TWICE
WEEKLY: MONDAYS and THURSDAYS.
Afternoon Tea is Popular. Afternoon Pictures are the
Rage. .
We Cater Specially for Ladies and Children During
Morning and Afternoon Sessions.
Ladies’ Retiring Rooms and Lady Attendants.
If it is to be seen anywhere you will see it at oui
TiiGiitrcs,
THE WORLD; IN MOTION.
We want you to compare our Programmes and our
Theatres with others which charge twice our prices ot
Admission. >
THE GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS
AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
INTERNATIONAL PICTURES. COLONIAL
Theatre Buildings, 610 George St.. Sydney.
Mr. W. J. Morgan, General Manager.
This Company supplies the Lyric and Colonial Theatres
with all their photo plays, and also supplies the leading
photo pla3 r concerns throughout Australasia. In fact,
we supply more shows with pictures than any other
three (3) concerns combined.
Don’t forget, Mr. Showman, to write or call.
We have the money-getters. We do not represent any
one firm of photoplay manufacturers, but we represent
all the best. WE HAVE THOUSANDS OF EXCLUSIVE
SUBJECTS—EVERY ONE A WINNER.
Branches : Sutton Buildings, Melbourne ; Courier Build-
ings, Brisbane ; Wellington, New Zealand j London,
England: Dewar House, Haymarket.
Just address your wire to “International Pictures.
That’s sufficient. _
UK MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
and Manairer: J. O. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8 O’CLOCK
MR. J. 0. WILLIAMSON presents
THE NEW ENGLISH OPERA CO.
iu
TilL CHOCOLATE SOLDIER
THE GREATEST MUSICAL TREAT OF THE YEAR.
BOX PLAN AT PALING’S.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Lessee & Manager .; J- O. WILLIAMSON, Ltd*
TO-NIGHT AND EVERY EVENING
MR. J. C. WILLIAMSON presents the Great
Comedy-Drama,
ALIAS JIMMY VALENTINE.
A CAST OF SUPER-EXCELLENCE
and
A PLAY OF GRIPPING INTEREST.
Box Plan at Paling's. , . Prices as usual.
gYDNEY GLACIARIUM-
COLOSSAL PEOPLE’S ENTERTAINMENTS BY
WEST’S PICTURES, LTD.
“BEST OF ALL.”
FAMILY MATINEES—WEDNESDAY, 2.30.
DE GROEN’S VICE-REGAL ORCHESTRAS. .
6d. to 2/- Plan &T J Niel)olsO(ii’s (No extra Fee).
mHE BULLETIN CHRISTMAS ISSUE.
X Full of Best Stories, Verse and
Sketches. Published December 14. PRICE
6d.
Amusements.
H E
ALHAMBRA THEATRE,
Haymarket, Sydney.
Direction : E. J. KILPATRICK.
HOUSE OF CONTINUOUS EXCLUSIVE
PICTURES.
ALL AUSTRALIA.
“CROWNING GLORY” BIOGRAPH CONTEST.
£4O PRIZES.
For Entry Forms and all information address
ALHAMBRA THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■HE
VICTORIA, PITT STREET, SYDNAY.
Direction FRANK MUSGROVE.
a & CONTINUOUS PHOTO-PLAY
COOL, COMFORTABLE, SLIDING ROOFS.
TO BE SEEN
“AT THE VICTORIA FIRST.”
ENTIRE CHANGE OF PROGRAMME TWICE
WEEKLY—MONDAYS and THURSDAY.
6d. and 3d. Ciias. F. Jones, Manager.
Rickards’ tivoli theatre.
General Manager : MR. JOHN C. LEETE.
MATIN PUS WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS
WILL lIANVARR & ANNA LEE, Unique Specialty Act.
RIDICULOUS RECCO, Famous Burlesque Acrobat.
EUGENE OSSIPOEF, Eminent Russian Baritone, assisted
by MISS VANDA ZOREENA.
JOHNSON & DEAN, Colored Singers and Dancers.
SAM MAYO, Quaintest Comedian on Earth.
THE REES TRIO. SCOT GIBSON.
And a GREAT COMPANY of Established Favorites.
PRICES —Bs., 2s. and Is. Plan at Paling’s.
OPERA HOUSE, MEIBO URN E.
General Manager: MR. JOHN C. LEETE.
DAVE SAMUELS, Hebrew Comedian.
ZELINI, Comedy Juggler.
EUGENE OSSIPOFF, Russian Baritone.
HARRY ALLISTER, Character Impersonator.
BERT LEVY, Lightning Sketch Artist.
FRANK HAWTHORN COMEDY CO.
Plan at Allan's. PRICES—Bs., 25., Is.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee : GEO. MARLOW LTD.
EVERY EVENING
GEORGE MARLOW presents
THE SWISS EXPRESS,
The Musical Pantomimical Comedy and Continental
Langhmaker,
By a Strong and Specially Organi-ed Company.
Prices as Usual. Plan at Allan’s,
|_| ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
MELBA GRAND OPE LI A CO.
FAUST, SANSONE E DALILA, LA BOIIEME,
LA TQSCA, CARMEN, MADAME BUTTERFLY.
PLAN AT ALLAN’S.
The bulletinchiiistmasissue.
If you don’t get it, you miss the best
issue of the year. Published December 14.
PRICE 6d. ;
■ B ELBOURNE REPERTORY theatre.
By I Direction Gregan McMahon.
DECEMBER 4, 5 and 6
IBSEN’S ROSMERSHOT M.
DECEMBER 8, 9 and 11-
BAKER’S ‘-CHAINS.”
DEC EM HER 13 and 14—
FOUR SHORT AUSTRALIAN PLAYS.
At SI. PATRICK’S HALL, BOURKE STREET.
Box Plan at Allan’s, November 27.
THE KING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager : William Anderson.
For a limited number of nights WILLIAM ANDERSON
will present
THE PRINCE AND THE
BEGGAR MAID.
Box Plan at Allan's. PRICES—3s., 2s. and Is.
■y HEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE .
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER IS.
For the First Time in Australia,
ETHEL IKYING
IN
damp natu r e.
Plan at Allan’s. PRICES AS USUAL.
Olympia,
LYMPIA.
OLYMPIA,
MELBOURNE
(Just across Princes Bridge).
SPENCER’S THEATRESCOPE CO.
Presenting the Unrivalled
S PENCE?,’S PI CTUE KS.
POPULAR PRICES FOR PERFECT- PICTURES.
WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS at 2.30,
and EVERY EVENING at 8.
The glaciarium, Melbourne.
Lessees & Managers— Am'LOAmAtp." PicturesLimiteo
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
fghjfghjm,
Wait for KINEMACOLOR.
Commencing SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 18.
Moving Pictures in ACTUAL NATURAL COLORS.
A New Era in Cinematography.
\AIE S T’S PALACE, MEIItO C K N E.
the best WEST’S PICTURES, the beat
OF ALL. LIMITED. OF ALL.
Managing Director ■ Mu. T. J. Wbst.
NIGHTLY AT 8.
Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays & All Holidays at 2.30.
Tiik Grkatkst Pictorial Ehtkrpkisk in tub World.
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
Anv Movirm- Picture Worthy of Note always to be seen at
WEST’S PICTURES. Complete Change every week.
Prices —6d. to 2s. Box Plan at Glen s.
YRIC THEATRE, Chapel St., Prahran, Vic.
EVERY NlGHl’at 8. MATINEE, SATURDAY, at 2.30
THE FAMOUS “NON-FLICKER”
PHOTOPLAYS
on the Marvellous “Mack” Screen, together witn the
Superb LYRIC ORCHESTRA. 6<l. to 2s. Plans at
Allan’s, C. M. Read’s and the Lyric Theatre Cafe.
HILDA BEACH.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.30
J. & N. TAIT present
THE EOLL I E S.
The daintiest and most up-to-date alfresco show on
the Beach.
Complete change of programme every Monday night.
Prices : 1 /6,1/- and 6d. Reserved Seats, 2/- at Allan’s.
m
m
m
7
'
■
A Thirst Quencher
<SL a Blood Purifier.
“Sarilla/” being made from the
best Jamaica Sarsaparilla (in accord-
ance with the requirements of the
British Pharmacopoeia), to which spe-
cial flavorings are added, is a blood-
purifier of the kind most needed at
this particular season of the year. It
satisfies the thirst, benefits the health,
and, being non-alcoholic, is as good for
children as for adults.
E. ROWLANDS PTY. LTD.,
Melbourne, Sydney, Ballarat.
Beverage
cvbnm


THE CAUSE OF TOOTH
DECAY IS “ACID
MOUTH.”
THE Arid is Lactic
Acid, present in
most mouths,
and caused by fer-
menting food par-
ticles. It gradually
eats through the
enamel of the
teeth.
0
Can
S3f>
PEBECO
TOOTH
PASTE
overcomes
Acid Mouth.
While Pebeoo
cleans the teeth
and keeps them
wliite, it over-
comes soft, bleeding
gums and maintains
the mouth in a
healthy condi-
tion. It is a soft,
smooth paste,
pleasant to the
taste, and valuable
in overcoming un-
pleasant breath.
G. ARNOLD,
6 O’Connell St., Sydney
(Wholesale Only).
FROM SOUTH AFRICA
sdfghvjnvm
TWO TIPS with
OSPREY.
Black, White,
Cream, and Black
ipped with White
Length, 9 inches.
5/-
The Bunch,
Post Free.
We make this Special Offer to
advertise our Ostrich Tips. Write
to-day. Send Postal Note.
Catalogue Free.
MILLER S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY; also at
Comer of Bourkeand Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention Tiib Bulletin.] [3
RHEUMATISM
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY.
GOUT. RHEUMATISM,
SCIAT72A, LUMBAGO,
NEURALGIA.
Blair’s
GOUT AND
RHEUMATIC
They Never Fail.
They Always Cure.
Pills
The only true and safe remedy for Gout and
Rheumatism that has stood the test of time
All Chemists and Stores at i/i J & 2/9 per box
Proprietors, PROUT & Co., 229. Strand.
London, England
EEDQE3
ill
'&M
k
.
E
A
T
r
~ : •
m
-m
,:.-i
z&fvJ&mA
*
iv-
m
■
:. m
*§m
£&m
■. ■ ■
Mi
PI
I | ,<■ 4 | 4, '
■ '
mm:;:
(Cflcbnatefl
l
malt .
mmm
•IV
brewed from
malted-barley
l&WHrt *0 ftgjt- 'OjmCC*
'• T<S?ERSft»OCSfe"R?
&MBso
3SBSgtf»>*
‘Hw? iJt&diSlSi
•-■ ’WfT* f tUFSifiww ■J&tiMtt.Wi 5
i/v^'-KlMcvS
SBHSMMMteS
■ PI
wmmm
13!
L±J A
; :
.
s( N< V'
*sm
lillllilil
:*JS££
•- 3 ,
/■CL'
v
Another Australian Record
on the “Alcock” Table.
TO the remarkable series of record breaks by Gray, Roberts, Williams and
Lindrum, already performed on the “Alcook” Table, is added another record
by Lindrum. His latest achievement was in the Melbourne match with
Reece, when he secured the phenomenal break of 1239—1230 coming off the red,
establishing two Australian records. All these champions have expressed their
high opinion of Alcock Tables, for huge breaks are only possible where the table
is “ true to angle,” with cushions, jaws and every other part absolutely perfect.
Both Gray and Lindrum owe their present reputations largely to the
“Alcock” Table. It is on these tables they practised and made many of their
largest breaks. We will gladly post you our illustrated Billiard Catalogue.
ALCOCK <& CO. PTY. LTD.,
155 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
7 King William St., Adelaide.
Murray St., Perth.
397 George St., Sydney.
114 Edward St., Brisbane.
Lower Cuba Street, Wellington.
nbmnb
All-wool unshrinK*
able Socks. Stockings,
and Underwear.
There is no wear so healthy and hygienic as wool —not
a mixture of wool and cotton —but all wool.
If the name is on the socks, stockings, and underwear
you buy you Will know that you have all - Australasian - wool wear,
and more that they are absolutely unshrinkable.
Further, the process makes them as soft and com-
fortable as silk. And are made in England.
"&UOV£ Stockings. Socks, and Underwear for Men, Ladies, and Children.
, ln all PHces. Of Men’s Outfitters, Drapers, and Stores. If your
dealer does not stock he can obtain it from his wholesale house.
In case of difficulty write for "Jason ” booklet and name of nearest
Agent to —
AaB
Jason Hosiery Co., Leicester, England.
<i>
HOWTO
GROW HAIR
A Simple, Safe and Reliable Way that Produces Surprising Results.
NEW PREPARATION CAUSES BIG STIR AMONG HAIR SPECIALISTS.
mbnmn
mnbmnbmnb
nbmnbm
bnmnbm
The above clearly shows Results from a Short Course of my True Hair-Growing Compound.
10,000 FREE TRIAL BOXES.
Those who are troubled with falling hair, dandruff,
baldness, itching scalp, etc., know full well the
humiliation that they cause. There is no need, how-
ever, of such conditions. These troubles can be
quickly overcome by my True Hair Grower.
I am not an advertising quack, but am a business
man. My hair began to grow thin about the time
I reached the age of thirty. When I had reached the
age of thirty-five the top of my head was quite bald.
I had considerable pride, and sought for something
to cause renewed growth. I invested in every pre-
paration that I could see or hear of, and here let me
say that not only did I try all the English so-called
restorers, but those of Continental Europe. 1 also
visited specialists. My experimenting cost me many
sovereigns and considerable time—yet the hairs came
■not. I had given up the idea of ever growing hair
again. One afternoon, while enjoying: a brief busi-
ness respite by an Alpine trip, I fell in with an old
collegiate chemist, whose hair was particularly plen-
tiful. I jokingly remarked that I wished he could
spare some of his hair for my benefit. This led him
to tell me that he understood the human hair as well
as a good dentist understands teeth. He wrote out a
formula, and suggested that I have a quantity of the
ON TNE HOP!
compound prepared. I did this a few days later. I
was astonished to see the hair coming forth after
several applications, and within six weeks my head
was covered by a firm, yet soft, black growth of hair.
Since then the hair on my head has been as luxuriant
as when in my school days. Having arranged for
the legal right to do so, I have for some time been
privately selling this marvellous hair-growing com-
pound. I hold over one thousand letters from people
who have actually grown new hair through the
medium of my true hair grower. Ido not pretend
to say it is the only hair grower in the world—l am
not interested in decrying others—but I do assert
that it is the most reliable, and in the end by far
the cheapest.
Baldness, Dandruff, Itching, etc.,
Free Trial Coupon.
Cut out this Coupon and send with 3 stamps
to cover postage, etc., and 1 will immediately
post a large trial Box of my True Ha ; r Grower.
John Craven Burleigh, Dept. DIS, 107 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound; containing upwards of Three hundred
of “ Hop's ” best drawings. Full Bulletin siz •
Price, 21s.
Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS
ACROSS AUSTRALIA. By BALDWIN
SPENCER, C.M.G., M.A., F.R.S., Pro-
fessor of Biology in Melbourne Univer-
sity, and F. J. GILLEN, Special Magis-
trate and Sub-Protector of Aborigines,
South Australia. With Colored and
other Illustrations. Bvo.
ISLANDS OF ENCHANTMENT. Many-
sided Melanesia seen through Many
Eyes and recorded by Florence
Coombe. With 100 Photographs and a
Map. Bvo.
MAN AND BEAST IN EASTERN
ETHIOPIA. From observations made
in British East Africa, Uganda and the
Sudan, by J. Bland Sutton. F.R.C.S.
With 204 engravings on wood. Bvo.
12s. net.
A MAP OF THE WORLD ON
MERCATOR’S PROJECTION.
Specially designed for AUSTRALASIAN
SCHOOLS, showing AUSTRALIA as
the centre of the Universe. Size. 50 x
42 inches. Mounted on Cloth Rollers
and Varnished, 12s.
ATLAS FOR AUSTRALASIAN
SCHOOLS.
Physical and Political. Size, 12 x 10
inches. 36 maps. Is. Gd.
A MODERN DICTIONARY OF
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE.
Second Edition. Cloth, Is. 4d. net. Half
leather, gilt top, 2s. Gd. net.
The Dictionary has been specially pre-
pared for the use of Pupils in Secondary
Schools and in the Upper Classes of Ele-
mentary Schools. It contains 48,719
Words, 750 Abbreviations. 1949 Phrases.
895 Foreign Words and Phrases, and an
eight-page Appendix of Classical and
Mythological Names.
MACMILLAN’S
NEW SHILLING
LIBRARY.
NEW VOLUMES.
20. 21,
and 22.
THE LIFE OF
W. E. GLADSTONE.
By John Morley. 3 Vols.
19. THE MAN-EATERS OF TSAVO. By
Lieut.-Colonel J. H. Patterson. Illus-
trated.
16. Essays. By R. W. Emerson.
17. Essays in Criticism. First Series. By
Matthew Arnold.
18. MAN’S PLACE IN NATURE. By
Thomas Henry Huxley.
Send for COMPLETE LIST of
POPULAR 1/- BOOXS
(about 160 vols.).
MACMILLAN’S
Colonial LIBRARY
of Copyright Books.
Issued in Paper Covers and in Cloth
Boards.
595. THE SONG OF RENNY. By Maurice
Hewlett. A romance which has more
points of resemblance with “The
Forest Lovers” than any other of Mr.
Hewlett’s books.
CO3. THE CASE OF RICHARD MEY-
NELL. By Mrs. Humphry Ward.
594. THE LOST IPHIGENIA. By Agnes
and Egerton Castle.
***The story is laid in present times:
it is full of the movement of this hurried
age. and deals with the strange and
poignant experiences of a young singer.
GOl. THE CENTAUR. By Algernon
Blackwood, Author of “Jimbo,” “The
Human Chord,” etc.
596. ETHAN FROME. A New England
Love Storv. By Edith Wharton, Au-
thor of “The House of Mirth,” etc.
598. THE WONDERFUL GARDEN. Bv
E. Nisbet, Author of “The Magic
City,” etc.
602. THE BARON’S HEIR. A Sixteenth
Centurv Romance for young people.
Bv Alice Wilson Fox, Author of
“Hearts and Coronets,” etc.
600. JOHN TEMPLE: Merchant Adven-
turer. Convict and Conquistador. By
Ralph Durand.
Complete List sent Post Free on application.
MACMILLAN § CO. LTD
LONDON and MELBOURNE.


CHALMERS CARS
ACKNOWLEDGE NO COMPETITOR.
1912 MODELS and PRICES—
30=36 H.P. New Model, 4-speed gear —self starter (air
pressure)—36-inch wheels—long stroke motor. Fully equipped
with hood, screen, five lamps, generator, horn, tools, jack, etc.,
20=30 H.P. Touring Car or Torpedo, unaltered for 1912.
This is the car of which we have sold 60 odd since Christmas.
Fully equipped as above.
20=30 H.P. Torpedo, 2=seater same construction as touring
car, except ix inches shorter in the wheelbase.
Fully equipped as above.
SEND FOR CATALOG. -«
£6OO
FULLY EQUIPPED.
£4 7 5
FULLY EQUIPPED.
£445
FULLY EQUIPPED.
ROY W. SANDFORD,
(WE GUARANTEE SERVICE).
CHALMERS THOMAS EMPIRE,
105 EXHIBITION ST., MELBOURNE; 181 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY.
MOSPTOES*FLI[S
niiiuiimm
Kmimnuiuun
I**
* w
HycpL;
►
mtiiluniimiinmi
m GERM-CARRIERS
Kill the eggs of these pests by using
HYCOL Disinfectant in your l home.
WASH FLOORS—FLUSH GULLEYS.
Nor.-poisonous. 18 times stronger than carbolic.
AGENTS— F. H. Paulding & Co.,
mi
mu
Sydney.
jJT !
iiiitui Ki>> ■ i< >kuii nmmiummiiiininiiiiiiiM imn-
um uuiviuiTiuivi Lwrtliitu ii iuu=
nbmnbmbn
mngbm
ffl
ill 810
Vv'
s
u£;
French Canadian
Corsetieres
Near!/ 1,000 French-
Canadian needle women,
inheriting the deftness and
skill of their French ancestors and directed by
Canadian energy and an up-to-date industrial organ-
ization, produce the D & A and La Diva Corsets.
The latest ideas from Paris are carried out by these
clever French-Canadian work people in our model
factory.
When you purchase a D& A or La Diva
Corset, you are getting Parisian style, French
workmanship and modern cash-saving methods, all
at a moderate price.
A DE LUXE MODEL
La Diva No. 810, illustrated herewith, is an
example of our highest grade corsets. For medium figures there is no
better corset. Before buying another Corset be sure to see this new
Canadian model. Sold by all leading drapers.
DOMINION CORSET CO., QUEBEC, Canada.
Makers of tHo famous D & A and La Diva Corsets. 27-11
AERATED WATERS
? -- 1(
THE REGAL Aerated Water Machine. 1911 Model.
of the very best quality are produced with the
REGAL
at less than ONE
PENNY per dozen.
The most perfect and compact
machine ever offered for the use
of Hotelkeepers, Cafes, etc.
Write at once for Catalogues
and Prices.
Sole Manufacturers:
Eckersley 8 Sons,
3 Bond Street, Sydney,
and Melbourne.
AGENTS:
QUEENSLAND: Elliott, Donaldson
& Douglas, Brisbane.
S. AUSTRALIA: Auld & Sons,
Adelaide.
W. AUSTRALIA : L. Samson & Sons,
Fremantle.
Note:—As a warranty for the ex-
cellent quality of the aerated waters
produced by Kckerslev's machines,
we may mention that they are
used exclusively in the leading hos-
pitals in Sydney, Melbourne and
Wellington.
CASTRATION-EASY
Our Emasculator combines the best American Ideas with
Reliable English Manufacture.
It is the Best Instrument for Castrating Stallions, Colts, Bulls,
Sharpe’s Perfect Emasculator
Crushes before it
Hemorrhage Impossible.
Cleanly Cuts,
making
RAPID SAFE MERCIFUL.
Has just the proper power, and being niade of best
Sheffield Steel will give perfect satisfaction for
nbmnb
anywhere .
Satisfaction or Money Back.
Write for Knife and Vet. List.
many years.
SWP-EASY TO USE
SHARPE & SHARPE
1 18 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Carry an Onoto with you
The Onoto is the Safety Fountain Pen that fills
itself in a flash, cleans itself in the act of filling, and
contains sufficient ink to write 20,000 words.
writing.
.Self -filling Safety Fountain Pen.
The Onoto is fitted with a large gold nib which is
iridium pointed, and therefore practically indestruc-
tible. It is British made by British labour. Get
an Onoto now —Price 12/- and upwards. At all
stationers, jewellers, stores, etc.
IfIPORTAN T. For those who requite a larger pen with
a vci v llexible nib, a special model—the new G, has been
on ihe market. It is exceptional value lot the money,
dry this new G at your stationers.
Booklet about it free from T. De La Rue
IxCu., Ltd., 219 Bunhill Row, London,
E. C., or the Australasian Representatives
.Norman Baker & Longhurst, 50 York
Street, Sydney.
12s.
R
!»
SHI'NOLEUM
How do you polish ysur
Floors Furniture...
Do you find it a difficult task a labour that tires you out and
even then the result is not all you could wish? Whatever method
you have adopted in the past, give SHUNOLEUM a trial now.
Those who use it regularly say that it goes much further, lasts
much longer, and gives infinitely better results than any other
polish they have tried. But it’s a simple matter to use it your*
self, and see just how good ills. Tell your Storekeeper to send
you a tint you should have no trouble about getting supplied as
It is sold by all Stores in
N. S. W.. Victoria 81
Queensland
The Paget Manufacturing Co. Ltd
Melbourne 8i Sydney
k V'
:
\\\\\W '
™i\M ■
/
mgs
i , s i^^ZST
m


Investigate the Neal Cure for Alcoholism.
South Australian Government has Endorsed
and is Now Using the NEAL Treatment.
THE IDEA that one who for years has been a regular drinker, or one who
has been a recognised toper, or a man whom the world regards as ‘‘down
and out ” can be redeemed from the drink habit in three days seems
preposterous. The Heal Treatment does this, however, and more. It restores
sleep to nervous souls, who have tossed fitfully during hours when rest has
been broken by craving for liquor. It has cleared mists of uncertainty from
business minds dulled by alcoholic poisoning. It has quickly transformed
desire for drink to antipathy and positive dislike of all alcoholic liquors.
Remove the cause and you remove the condition. It is the principle that
makes it possible to cure the liquor habit in just three short days, and make the
man master of his own brain and actions. The Heal Treatment releases him
from an appetite that has made his every action subservient to its influence,
and appetite stronger than his will power, stronger' than the tearful wife’s
pleadings, even stronger than prayer.
The one who drinks to excess is a victim of alcoholic poisoning. Each
drink adds to the stock of poison in his system, and it is this accumulated
poison which is responsible for the gnawing and craving for alcoholic liquor,
which is so often called “appetite.” The Heal Treatment neutralises and
eliminates this poison, and in so doing utterly destroys all desire and craving,
leaving the person just as he was before he began to drink.
It was investigation which led the South Australian Government to
appoint Rev. A. C. Rankine an Honorary Commissioner to investigate the
liquor treatments of Great Britain, the Continent and America. September
(a year ago), Rev. Rankine reported to his Government that the Heal Treat-
ment produced the most satisfactory results, which was adopted, and has been
in use ever since. Nearly 400 cases of alcoholism have been treated by the
Government with the Neal Treatment.
The Neal Treatment consists of the administration by a qualified
physician, always in attendance, of a perfectly harmless vegetable medicine
taken internally. There are NO hypodermic injections.
At the Sydney Institute, Avhich is one of the FIFTY Neal Institutes in
American, Canadian and Australian Cities, guests enjoy all the privileges
and comforts of home, club or hotel. Names of patients are never divulged.
All correspondence confidential. Take Dulwich Hill tram to Woodbury
Street, or write, ’phone or call Neal Institute, Woodbury Street, Marrickville,
Sydnev (N.S.W.). ’Phone, Petersham 1166. Write for Booklet “B,” “The
Neal Way.”
A Copy of this Prospectus has been filed for Registration with the Registrar-General of Victoria, as required by Section 87 of The Companies Act 1910 (No. 2293).
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS OF
Hydro-Elecflric Power and
Metallurgical Company Ltd.
Registered under the Companies Acts of Victoria. Australia.
CAPITAL - - £500,000 in 500,000 SHARES £1 EACH.
164,000
65,000
21,000
250,000
500,000
are Subscribing Shares.
of which
and of these
94,000 are reserved for future issue, over which certain options have been given at prices ranging from 20/- to 35/- per share.
A First Issue of
70,000 Cumulative Preference Shares is now being offered for public subscription at
?/- per Share on Application; 2/- per Share.on Allotment; 4/- One Month after Allotment; and the balance in three equal instalments of 4/- each,
at 4, 7 and 10 months after allotment.
The whole of this issue has been underwritten.
fully paid up Shares are to be issued as commission to the underwriters or purchasers of the Debentures,
fully paid up Shares are to be issued as commission to the underwriters of the Preference Shares.
The Vendor Company Complex Ores Ltd. takes no cash, but agrees to accept fully paid up Shares in full payment for its valuable water power concessions,
Commonwealth patent rights, public and private lighting and power contracts, and its land and mining options, and it further agrees, out of the shares issued to
it, to appropriate such number of shares not exceeding 10,000, as may be required for certain contracts in connection with the flotation of this Company.
The Directors have arranged for the issue in London of £145,000 worth of Debentures.
The contract for the issue of these Debentures provides that they are issued at a discount of 10 per cent, and bear interest at 5 per cent, per annum, having a
currency of SO years, with provision for a Sinking Fund and subject to certain other conditions as set forth in such contract, a copy of which can be inspected
at the office of the Company. The contract also provides for the issue as required, of further debentures not exceeding in the aggregate £1.000,000. subject to
certain conditions. The Contract also provides that the underwriters or purchasers of the debentures shall have the options with respect to the 94,000 reserved
shares above referred to.
The Vendor Company also contracts that the 250,000 of the Shares it receives in purchase shall be held by it from distribution for a period of two years from the incorporation of
this Company.
It is stipulated, however, in the Contract of Sale that all Sums-of money paid by the Vendor Company to the Government of Tasmania by way of deposit, together with all sums of
i-t money advanced by the Vendor Company and expended on behalf of this Company from the Ist November. 1910, shall be repaid by the latter to the former Company.
Additional Capital will be provided by the Issue of the above-mentioned Reserved Shares or by the Issue of Debentures as above, or by the Issue of both Reserved Shares and
Debentures. - ■
The 70,000 cumulative preference shares shall confer the right to a fixed cumulative preferential dividend at the rate of £5 per centum per annum on the capital for the time being paid
up thereon, and shall rank as regards dividends and capital in priority to all other shares in the original capital of the Company, and shall be entitled to participate pari passu
with the ordinary shares in the surplus profits of each year which shall remain after paying the fixed dividend aforesaid for such year on the said preference shares, and a like
dividend for such year on the capital paid up or deemed to be paid up on the ordinary shares.
The shares may be paid up in full at any time after allotment. Interest will be allowed on prepayments at the rate of 5 per cent, per annum.
A Brokerage of Sixpence per Share will be paid by the Company in respect of all allotments upon applications identified as coming through the Brokers.
DIRECTORS.
FRANCIS JAMES DAVIES, of 48a Market Street, Architect (Chairman of Complex Ores
Limited).
JAMES HYNDES GILLIES, of 17 Queen Street, Melbourne. Metallurgist.
HENRY JONES, of 9 to 23 Old Wharf, Hobart, Merchant (Chairman of H. Jones and Co.
Limited).
HON. NORMAN KIRKWOOD EWING. M.H.A.. Macquarie Street, Hobart, Barrister.
GEORGE Bit ETTINGHA M-MOORE. M.1.C.E.. Davey Street. Hobart, Civil Engineer.
(The Directors will hold office until the Statutory Meeting of the Company.)
SOLICITORS.
w. S. COOK. 00 Queen Street. Melbourne. • - •» —-
EWING, HODGMAN and SEAGER. Macquarie Street, Hobart.
CONSULTING ENGINEERS IN LONDON.
Messrs. MERZ and MacLELLAN, London. ,
BANKERS.
BANK OF AUSTRALASIA.
BROKERS.
Melbourne —WARD and CO.. 383 Collins Street.
WALLACE H. SMITH and CO.. 377 Collins Street.
Sydney—S. C. WARD and CO., Lombard Chambers, Pitt Street.
WALLACE H. SMITH and CO., Pitt Street.
Adelaide—S. C. WARD and CO., 12 Pirie Street.
PERTH—S. C. WARD and CO., Barrack Street.
HOBART—R. MAPLEY. Stock Exchange.
Launceston—R. F. IRVINE, St. Andrew’s Chambers.
AUDITORS.
(To be appointed by the Directors of the Company.)
JOHN DITCHBURN.
SECRETARY.
OFFICES.
Head Office: Lombard Buildings, 17 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Branch: A. M. P. Chambers, Hobart.
PROSPECTUS
The Company has been formed (inter alia) to acquire certain rights, powers, privileges,
concessions, options, etc., of Complex Ores, Ltd., as Vendors on the Terms and Conditions
set forth in an agreement dated the 29th day of December. 1910. and made between Complex
Ores Limited of the one part and John Ditchburn on behalf of this Company, of the other
part, a copy of which may be inspected at office of the Company, No. 17 Queen Street.
Melbourne. It is intended that the above-mentioned agreement, before being adopted by
this. Company, shall be modified on the terms indicated in the Addenda hereto.
The Assets to be acquired by this Company include (inter alia) :
(a) esfclusive rights to the Australasian Letters Patent granted to the Inventor
(Mr. ,7. H. Gillies) for certain inventions, processes and discoveries in connec-
tion with the treatment of Zinciferous Ores and Concentrates, and of all improve-
ments in respect thereof.
(b) The rights, privileges and concessions granted to the Vendors under “The Com-
nlex Ores Act 1909.” in Tasmania, giving power (inter alia) to Complex Ores
Limited or its assigns, subject to the provisions of the said Act. to take, divert
and use water from the River Ouse and Shannon and to conserve the waters of
the Great Lake. Power to construct buildings and establish works, acquire
private lands, construct lines for transmission of electric energy, and to supply
and make charge therefor.
NOTE. —The rent to be paid to tbe Minister of Lands and Works for the use and
supply of any water under the Act shall be the sum of Fifty-two pounds per
annum during the first ten years, and thereafter shall be fixed upon the same
scale as may be charged for the use of water for mining purposes under
any Mining Act or Regulations in force for the time being.
(c) Option over Iron Ore Deposit situated at Penguin. Tasmania, and comprising
two 80-acre blocks held under Mineral Lease. Since the date of above-dated
agreement Complex Ores Limited has exercised this option.
(d) Options over about 20 ft 0 acres of Freehold Land fronting North West Bay. near
Hobart. Tasmania, for works and town site. Since the date of above-dated
agreement Complex Ores Limited has exercised these options.
(e) Contracts with the City Corporation of Hobart and the neighboring Municipalities
of Newtown, Queenborough and Glenorchy for street lighting, etc., and for light-
ing and power wih public and private companies, firms, and private individuals.
GENERAL OUTLINE OF COMPANY’S INTENDED OPERATIONS AND
FUTURE EXPANSION.
The Company’s aims are fourfold:—
I. The Treatment of Zinciferous Ores by the patented process and appliances the
property of the Company and otherwise—and the Establishment of Metallurgical
Works for the carrying out of the same.
11. The Supply of Electric Eight and Power as already contracted for. and to extend
• the distribution of same in Hobart and vicinity, or to other districts of
Tasmania, where profitable business can be secured.
111. The manufacture of Calcium Carbide.
IV. The Establishment and Fostering of Industries to which cheap electrical energy is
especially applicable, either as branches of the business of the Company, or by
the formation of subsidiary companies in which the Company will be interested
and to which electricity or other productions of the Company will be supplied.
With this end in view—to purchase the land held under option as a site for the
various works and for a township site at North West Bay, near Hobart, and to
sell or lease such land.
INVESTMENT ASPECTS.
The. large amount of horse-power that can be developed at low cost —its certain
utilisation in the future—with assured profitable business to start on—
The profits capable of realisation in the zinc treatment and calcium carbide works—
The large possibilities from the establishment of industries —combine to present an
industrial project the potentialities of which are beyond present estimation.
To the investor is offered hn exceptional opportunity for the employment of his capital
in an unusually safe enterprise that promises good returns for his investment from the Start,
With ever-increasing dividends in the future.
The number of shares subscribed for by the Directors respectively is one share.
The minimum subscription on which the Directors may proceed to allotment is the sum of £1 per share upon five shares of the Company
The requirements of section 88 of the Companies Act 1910 have not been fully complied with in this advertisement.
Applications for Shares will proceed only on one of the Forms of Application referred to. and endorsed upon a printed copy of the Prospectus.
Copies of the full Prospectus and Forms of Application for Shares may be obtained from the abovementioned Brokers, and John Ditchburn. Secretary, 17 Queen Street, Melbourne


"Whar we have
for Supper”
VAN
HOUTENS
COCOA
The Favourite
Best S'
Goes Farthest
Ask your grocer for a gratis
Van Houten Novelty.
The Body-Building
Power of
BOVRIL
The Standardised BEEF FOOD.
nbmnbm
Thus: If this repre-
sents the amount of
Bovril taken
This outline dia-
gram represents
the actual
BODY-BUILD-
ING POWER
This diagram illustrates the
actual body-buil ding power of
Bovril, proved by recent
independent physiological
experiments to be
10 to 20 times
the amount taken.
Bovril, Ltd., hold the Royal Warrant of
Appointment to His Majesty King George V.,
an A ppointment also held for many years
from the late King Edward VII.
During the Progress of our GREAT REMOVAL
SALE we are offering the following
Usual Price. Sale Price
Double - Barrelled, Breech - loading
Guns, engine-turned rib, left bar-
rel full choke, right modified, re-
bounding locks and pistol grip.
Trial
Single-Barrel Duck Guns, large bore,
to kill at 100yds. Trial
Single-Barrel, Hammerless, Breech-
loading Guns, choke bore, excellent
stock. Trial
Double - Barrelled, Breech - loading
Guns with Greener patent wedge
fast, cross bolt, choke bore, walnut
stock, pistol grip, patent cartridge
ejector. Trial..
Special Pigeon Guns, With patent
side clips, file cut rib, top lever,
choke bore, specially selected wal-
nut stock, Greener patent wedge
fast cross bolt. Trial
Mauser Principle Rifles, 22 calibre
kill at 300yds. Trial
£5 2 6 £3 12 6
850 5 10 0
3 10 0 1 17 6
5 10 0 4 17 6
10 0 0 7 10 0
15 0 13 6
Guns by All Makers in Stock.
Write for Special Sale Catalogue.
ALL ORDERS FOR GUNS AND RIFLES DE-
LIVERED CARRIAGE PAID TO ANY ADDRESS
IN AUSTRALASIA.
iSmall Arms Co.
Gunsmiths &. Importers.
242-244 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
THE BEST BONUS-PAYING LIFE OFFICE IN THE WORLD.
Next Distribution of Cash Surplus as at 31st December, 1911.
All ordinary participating policies effected before that date will share in the Amount to be then allotted.
Cash Bonus divided for the year 1910 £847,607
Total Bonuses distributed.. .. £15,964,191
Accumulated Funds £27,100,000
Annual income £3,550,000
Insure now and participate in this year’s Cash Bonus.
Write for full particulars to the Head Office, 87 Pitt Street, Sydney ; or any District Office or Agent of the Society.
RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S., H. W. APPERLY,
General Manager and Actuary. , Secretary.
ROYAL
bnmnb
EXAMPLE
is a GUARANTEE for every purchaser of Phosferine that
the tonic is the very best obtainable, embodies the highest skill,
and being the most potent remedy, benefits everyone equally
with Rovalty. The original and genuine preparation is spelt
PHOSFERINE
Honoured by
Commands from
The British
Royal Family
H.I.M. The
Empress of Russia
H.M. The
King of Greece
This world-renowned restorative medi-
cine has already for many years been
supplied by
ROYAL COMMANDS
To H.I.M. the Dowager Empress of
Russia
H.M. The Queen of Spain
H.I.H. the Grand Duchess of Hesse
H.I.H. the Grand Duchess Olga of
Russia
And the Principle Royalty and
Aristocracy throughout the world
THE KING’S STATE
BARGEMASTER
Honoured by
Commands from
Ut
H.M. The
King of Spain
H.M. The Queen
of Roumania
The Imperial
Family of China
Mr. W. G. East, the King's Bargemaster, writes: “ Phosferine considerably increases one’s
powers of muscular endurance. Since taking Phosferine I have been free from Neuralgia and
Influenza, and have a better appetite and sleep well, and taking it all round I am sure I owe
it to Phosferine that I keep so well as I do ; Phosferine is the only tonic that agrees with me.''
The Greatest of all Tonics
A PROYEN REMEDY FOR
Debility
Influenza
Indigestion
Sleeplessness
Exhaustion
Neuralgia
Maternity Weakness
Premature Decay
Mental Exhaustion
Loss of Appetite
Lassitude
Neuritis
Faintness
Brain-Fag
Anaemia
Backache
Rheumatism
Headache
Hysteria
Sciatica
and disorders consequent upon a reduced state of the ner7ous system*
SPECIAL WARNING
Insist upon having the original and genuine Phosferine (spelt
Phosferine) as supplied to Royalty, and prepared only by
Ashton & Parsons, Ltd., London. Similar names and styles are
deliberate attempts to deceive the purchaser, so do not be tricked
hy appearance and sound into buying worthless imitations of
PHOSFERINE
The real Phosferine is the Royal Tonic, which fact assures
users that it is highly commended by the greatest living physicians.
Refuse all imitations under names that may be confused with
the original and genuine Phosferine, prepared only by
ASHTON & PARSONS, LTD., LONDON.
The 2/6 size contains nearly four times the 1/- size.
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
With her limitless potentialities, still in the process of initial development, Queensland
otters a field of unbounded scope to the investor, the scientist, the tourist, the prospective
settler and to the honest worker. •
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
T. C. TROEDSON, Director.
Branch Office : 116 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W. A. MESTON, Local Director.
THROW AWAY YOUR PIPE
AND
SMOKE MY CIGARS
I’VE knocked around a hit over Australasia in
my time—been in the back parts of pretty
well every State and New Zealand.
I've mixed with shearers and musterers and
rouseabouts at different sheds; been at cattle
camps in Queensland; up among the snow
country of Monaro- -in the jarrah forests- cf
Westralia; in miningmamps all over the Com-
monwealth; and everywhere Iye seen the boys
smoking their pipes—and seldom a sign of a
Cigar,
Then, I’ve pulled out my case and handed
some DIADEMAS around. And after all this,.
people say to me—“ Oh, Australians won’t smoke
Cigars!”
mmi
I do just get riled when I
hear this. I tell you that
nearly every pipe-smoker,
once he gets the taste of my
DIADEMAS Cigars, swears
by them. They knock pipe-
smoking hollow! ;
There’s nothing but To-
bacco in them—and. the best
Cigar Tobacco that js grown
—the Wrapper, finest Java
leaf; and the inside filling,
all clean, straight, Brazil.
They draw easily and burn
freely, for they are! hand-
rolled by as good Cigar-
makers as there are any-
where in the world.
The boys out-back I’ve
given them to, as I said, just
sweat; by my Cigars; Men
in the Cigar trade here, too
—men with whom Cigar-
smoking is a life habit—come
to me and say—“ Look here,
those of yours are
better than any we can get
in the city. Let us have a
box as a favor.”
Now, I want you to try
my Cigars —at rny ex-
pense.
I want to convert you from
the pipe to Cigars—to my
Cigars. All I want is for yon
to buy my Cigars as against
your pipe and favorite to-
bacco —and I know you’ll be
a regular customer of mine.
I’ll post a box of ioo DIADEMAS right to
your address for 22/6. Smoke 5 or 6 of them,
and if they’re not as good as the best 6d. Cigar
you can buy send the rest of the Cigars back,
and I’ll return every penny of your money. I’ll
make no deduction for the Cigars you’ve smoked
There’s no funny business about this offer,
mind. I’ll keep to every word of it, and there’ll
be no “back answers” if you want your money
back. If yoii want to know the kind of man
you’re dealing with, write to the General
Manager, the Commercial Bank, Melbourne,
and he’ll tell you I’m a clean', straight chap in all
my dealings,
Send 22/6 to-day, and get the box of 100
DIADEMAS by return post. In ordering, say
whether you like the mild, medium, or strong
grade.
My Only Address is
LOUIS KAUFFMANN
34 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE
Illustrated Descriptive Booklet will be
Mailed Free to any address.
SPRING SUITINGS, in
the Latest Novelties,
now opened up.
David Braham 8 Co.,
TAILORS,
76 Market St., Sydney
(Next Door to Farmer’s).
Call or Write for Patterns.


TROUT TACKLE!
mnbm
We are Australia’s LARGEST Wholesale
and Retail Fishing Tackle Distributors.
Stockists of High-Class Fishing Tackle.
RODS.
The “Perfection” Split Cane Bods, 11 feet, 3 joints, 2 tops,
steel centre, cork grip, lock joints, agate bridge and
end rings, etc. Highest quality £7/10/-.
No. 1. Split Cane Bods, 10J and 11 feet, 3 joints, 2 tops, steel
centre, cork grip, lock joints, bridge rings, etc. £5/10/-.
No. 5. Split Cane Bods, 12 feet, 3 joints, 2 tops, cork grip,
lock joints, serrated ferrule®, snake rings, etc. £2/15/-.
The M.S. Split Cane Fly Bods, and 11 feet, 3 joints, 2
tops, cork grip, serrated rules, snake rings, etc.
Splendid value £2
No. 10F. Short, Jointed Split Cane Bods, 10i feet, 5 joints,
2 tops, cork grip, welted ferrules, double brazed, 21/-.
The M.S. Guinea Greenheart Bods, 10J and 11 feet, 3 joints,
2 tops, cork grip, snake rings, stained olive green,
splendid value 21/-.
No. 11. Split Cane Bods, 10J feet, 3 joints, 2 tops, cork
grip, welted ferrules, nickel fittings, good value .. 18/6.
Fop EXCELLENCE and STERLING WORTH “ SURE CATCH ” Fishing
Tackle is ABSOLUTELY UNRIVALLED, as IS TESTIFIED by the EVER
INCREASING CROWD of SATISFIED and APPRECIATIVE ANGLERS
from near and far.
Creels, Bags, Gaffs, Spinners, Casts, Fly Books and Boxes,
Flies, etc., etc., in endless variety.
MICK SIMMONS LTD.
REELS.
The M.S. “Perfection” Trout Reels, with tension screw and
contracted drum—a perfect reel — 3 inch, 35/-, 31in.
30/- each.
The “1.X.1t.” Trout Reels, made of best aluminium, op-
tional check, large drum for quick winding, oscillating
line guard and front brake. An excellent reel:
3 inch, 25/-.; 31 inch, 27/6; 31 inch, 30/- each.
The M.S. Rotary Check Reels, ebonite back, wire drum for
rapid winding—a high-class reel:
21 inch, 13/6; 2% inch, 15/6; 3 inch, 17/6 each.
The MORE CRITICAL the ANGLER, the MORE EMPHATIC is HIS
APPRECIATION of “SURE CATCH” FISHING TACKLE.
TROUT LINES.
“Kingfisher” Plaited Silk lanes.
Double Tapered, 30 yards, No. 2, 10/-; No. 3, 11/6 each.
Double Tapered, 40 yards, No. 1, 11/6; No. 2, 12/6; No. 3,
13/6 each.
“Perfect” Waterproof Plaited Silk Dines.
A good quality level line, made specially for us.
No. 40. 25 yards, 2/6; 50 yards, 5/- each.
No. 30. 25 yards, 3/-; 50 yards, 6/- each.
LANDING NETS.
The M.S. “Perfect” Collapsible Trout Net, highly finished,
a splendid net 17/6 each.
The “X.D.” Collapsible Net, telescopic handle, superior
quality, net and belt clip 14/6 each.
“The Best House for ALL ANGLING REQUISITES,”
Head Distributing Depot-
SUNDRIES.
No. 1. Cast Books, witli parchment pockets ..... 4/- each.
No. 2 Aluminium Cast Boxes, very light 2/- each.
No. 6. Japanned Eyed Ely Boxes, fitted with steel spring
clips, mounted to xylonite:
51 clips, 4/6; 85 clips, 5/6; 119 clips, 7/- each.
Spinning Head Elies 1/6 and 1/8 each.
Rouke Trout Spinners, a splendid line 9d. each.
The New Pearl Flash, an excellent bait .. 6d. and 9d. each.
Best Trout Elies, from 2/- per dozen
WE ARE RECOGNISED AS THE HOUSE
THAT SELLS THE BEST TACKLE.
Telescopic Gaffs, one and two slide.. 7/6, 12/6 and 17/6 each.
Best Waterproof Wading: Trousers, light make, made of
superior steamed Cashmere, all sizes in stock:
10, 10*, 11, 11* and 12 inch foot 45/- pair.
Heavier Make, all sizes • • • *. 37/6 pair.
Fishing Brogues, made from good-quality leather, with
canvas uppers, all sizes 2 ?/6 pair.
Red Boop Tapered Gut Casts, something new in casts
which we can recommend 1/6 each.
Hercules Tapered Gut Casts, 3 yards long, 1/3 & 1/9 each.
Write for a Copy of our “AUSTRALASIAN FISHING TACKLE
CATALOGUE’’-THE BEST EVER PUBLISHED.
Haymarket, Sydney, N.S.W.
Schute, Bell & Go.
LIMITED,
WOOL and PRODUCE BROKERS.
44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
WOOL STORES Harris Street, Pyrmont.
Sell on Commission only.
New and thoroughly up-to-
date Stores. Inspection
invited. Personal atten-
tion a feature of the
business.
A Steadily growing com-
pany.
PRODUCE STORES—Athlone Place.
*Beetkam,s
0
Is the most perfect Preservative for the Skin
and Complexion. Invaluable for the SKIN
in HOT or COLD Climates, removing all
ROUGHNESS, IRRITATION and TAN
COOLING AND REFRESHING TO THE SKIN, KEEPING IT SOFT
AS VELVET ALL THE YEAR ROUND. VERY SOOTHING IF
APPLIED AFTER SHAVING
M. BEETHAM & SON, CHELTENHAM, ENGLAND
THE LONE HAND
A Monthly Guide for everything
Australian.
6d
9
PILLS
BRIGHTEN EXISTENCE.
It is not difficult to know when a mild aperient
is required. One feels dull and depressed; there is
acid in the stomach, oppression at the chest, numb
pain in the back, possibly a sharp attack of indigestion
or biliousness and headache.
Cockle’s Pills quickly dispel all such distressing symptoms of disorder,
cleansing the system thoroughly, restoring tone and stability to the whole
digestive apparatus, purifying the blood, and generally renewing normal
physical conditions as well as mental brightness. In a word, Cockle’s Pills
brighten existence by keeping the body fit and well. The purer skin
and clearer complexion are the sure signs of it.
Of all Chemists, 1/lJ and 2/9 per box.
£5OOO
CASH
PRIZES.
NORMAN FRANK 8 CO.’S
Great PRIZE COMPETITION
Ist Prize ... £lOO cash.
2nd Prize ... £25 cash.
3rd Prize ... £lO cash.
4th Prize ... £5 cash.
Hundreds of Consolation Prizes .
Send your name and full address, and we will forward you Postage Paid
and absolutely Free of Charge our 6d. magazine, and Full Particulars of
this Great Prize Competition. So Easy a Child can Win these Prizes.
WRITE TO-DAY.
NORMAN FRANK & Co.
Commerce Buildings, Ash Street, Sydney.
Bankers : Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney.
BOOKS YOU CAN’T GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OP NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1908 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 6d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, ’ls 2d. All Zola’s,
■including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth, 1/6.
1 Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Quadrille Call Book,
2s. Adventures of a Flirt, Is. 3d. Parlor Tricks
and Games, Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
; Is 2d. - All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
; 10s6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is 2d post.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
;of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce. Us. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ss. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain for the
British, 6d. How to Read Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. Theory of Value, Is 6d. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is 6d.
m
m
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
■EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
IMP-BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH. ~~ms
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Easj, Is. posted. Kelly Gang op
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor. : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d.
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. HowMcDougall Topped the Score, &
Other Verses, Is 3d. The Gay Count, Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Lee’s Priceless
Recipes, 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash, pr Established 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT.
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
Is. Old Busii Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions of the King,
Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. 6d. Secret
History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s fid post.
Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s fid posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine
posted, SA WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.’


nbmnb
BODY RACKED BY RETCHING TORTURED BY CHEST
PAINS — SUFFERED 5 YEARS—ORDINARY REMEDIES USELESS.
CONVINCING testimony to the wonder-
ful curative virtues of Bile Beans is
that of Mrs. A. Nicholson, of 50 Camp-
bell Street, Glebe, Sydney, who says: —“For
over five years I was a great sufferer from vio-
lent bilious attacks, indigestion, and severe
headaches. Awful pains between the shoul-
ders and in the chest tortured be, and my
appetite disappeared. Terrible fits of retching
weakened me, and my liver became sluggish,
and I felt weary and had no desire for work.
Although I tried many remedies for my trou-
bles, nothing gave me permanent relief, for
the attacks became more violent and frequent.
“I had read a good deal about Bile Beans,
and when a friend recommended them I ob-
tained a supply and commenced taking them.
After the first few doses I was convinced that
Bile Beans would cure me, for the headaches
and pains became less violent, and my appetite mended. I persevered
with Bile Beans until my digestive organs were strengthened and stimu-
lated to their proper action, all my troubles were ended, and I felt brighter
and stronger. Bile Beans made me completely better.
“Now we always keep a supply of Bile Beans in the house, for they
are unrivalled as a general corrective and as a remedy for ailments arising
through errors in diet.”
Bile Beans are a handy, reliable family medicine, and an occasional dose or two assist in
keeping one fit and well. Equally good for old and young of both sexes. A box should always
be kept in every medicine chest.
mw
mm
m
MRS. NICHOLSON
after her cure.
THE STANPARP FAMILY MEPKINE
He
eans
All men and women
who are at all run-
down and out-of-
sorts will derive
great benefit from a
course of Bile Beans.
Bile Beans are a
grand liver and
stomach medicine,
and end constipa-
tion, debility, that
tired feeling and
anaemia. Sold by all
stores and chemists.
1/1% and 2/9 per box.
JTmas, 1911.
Annual
THE Annual ot 1911 is the twenty-first issue, and is better
than any of its predecessors —indeed, an unexampled
production. It is on similar lines to the last, which met
with such extraordinary popularity with the public, and will
comprise :
SIX intensely interesting and
attractive Stories
from the pens of eminent living writers, including George
R. Simms, Max Pemberton, W. Pett Ridge, Dick
Donovan, Fergus Hume, F. T. Bullen, each specially
written for this Annual; and, as usual, the tales will be
beautifully and extensively illustrated, among the artists
being Frank Dadd, J. C. Dollman, Harry Furniss,
Will Owen, Charles Pears, R. Caton Woodville.
The entirely new feature commenced last year has again
been introduced, viz. :
FOUR Full Pages of an Illus-
trated Song, in Colours,
facsimiles ot the Original Water Colour Drawings, depicting
in the most artistic manner the descriptive verses of the
famous old humorous Devonshire song, “ Uncle Tom
Cobleigh.” These special pages are a most diverting
innovation. The Annual will be, as usual, accompanied by
3
LARGE AND BEAUTIFUL
Presentation Plates
each printed in twelve colours.
X. WHERE ARE YOU GOING TO, MY PRETTY MAID?
2. AFTER THE BALL.
3. FAMILY WORSHIP.
The whole in a very
beautiful cover in
eight colours.
Sold by all Booksellers.
Agents for Australasia—GOßDON & GOTCH.
Two Youths.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I KNEW two youths in the old, old days
Who were frank and fast and free,
They had little to hope and less to lose,
And life went merrily.
Oh, one was a fellow of muscle and thew,
And they called him Do-and-Dare;
And the other lad was a reckless lad,
And he was Devil-May-Care.
Oh, life was a groaning banquet-board,
And oats were pleasant to sow.
With Devil-May-Care and Do-and-Dare
A score of years ago.
There wasn’t a tongue to speak them well,
These birds of a feather gay;
The day of the town was nigiit to them,
And the night of the town was day.
God give them peace! God rest them both
These merry youths of yore!
They had their day, and their day is done,
And they redden the town no more.
For Do-and-Dare is dead these years,
And dead is Devil-May-Care;
One lectures the world from a Judge’s bench,
And one from an editor’s chair.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
Backblock Architecture.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
SLABS, bark, greenhide and dog-leg
fences were the leading features of
the old bush home, and still are in
many places; but in settled districts shin-
gles and galvanised iron have taken the place
of bark, and two-rail and wire fences suc-
ceed the dog-leg. Neat cottages appear
everywhere in the deep forests, and carts
and buggies rattle in the wake of the primor-
dial slide. Yet I doubt if the man in the
modern cottage is happier than his progeni-
tor in the little bark hut —the progenitor
whose saddle reposed on a peg in one corner,
and his bag-bunk in another; who stepped
out on a cowhide mat, stood his dampers on
a packing-case, and slung his billy on a wire
hooked to a blackened trace-chain. Nearly
every settler went through that process in
former days (the good old times, they call
them, as they look back from their present
snug retirement), because a man could get
on to good land then without being a capi-
talist.
Though a resourceful person in the main,
the bushman’s home does not always show to
advantage. There is so much for him to
do when he goes on his land. So he sticks
up a temporary structure, with the handiest
material about him, the principal object
being to keep out rain. A married man,
with little or no capital, begins with a two-
roomed hut —intended later for a kitchen —-
but any sort of jerry-built humpy suits the
bachelor. When 'he can cook and eat and
sleep comfortably in a one-roomed hut, he
sees no reason why he should erect any
more, while there is other and more pressing
work calling for his time and energy. By
limiting his domicile to one < apartment, he
makes a considerable saving in cleaning and
general housekeeping. Behind many places
there is a galley, or lean-to, where much of
the cooking and baking are done.
The crudest habitations are found among
the giant timber of Gippsland. The upper
part of a big hollow tree is sawn off, and a
roof put on. Sometimes the top is left in-
tact, and there may be two or three floors
built inside the trunk, with little windows
cut out here and there. This tree-house
makes a capital first residence, and may
afterwards be turned into a kitchen, stable,
store, or poultry house.
In 'the very early days many a settler s
house was built of solid logs and pug. It
was roofed with stringy bark, the latter
being hung with greenhide and held down
with poles (riders and jockeys) pegged to-
gether. This was, no doubt, a replica of
the log cabins of the Yankee backwoods-
men. It was a formidable structure, more
comfortable than elegant. Then there was
the mud house. Many squatters in Western
Queensland lived for years in this kind of
dwelling, the walls being built of stiff clay,
with grass for binding. Similar structures
are still in use west of Windorah, the walls
of earth and tallow, and the floor of ashes
and tallow, a composition which sets like
cement. Currawilla station, in this neigh-
borhood, is surrounded by a great wall, Bft.
high, built of the same material. The en-
closure prevents the homestead being inun-
dated when the floods come down Farrar’s
Creek, and then you see this place low and
dry in the midst of miles of seething water.
The blending of tallow makes the walls
waterproof, and also prevents erosion when
subjected to a strong current.
Mention of the log-and-pug recalls that
it was from this kind of building that our
wattle trees got their name. The earliest
settlers around Port Jackson found these
trees handy for building purposes. The
trunks were laid horizontally between up-
rights, and the spaces filled with stiff mud,
a process known as wattling. They were
thus called wattle houses.
Our backblock architectural styles and
their periods have never been definitely
named or classified. In the central parts
the gradation from the canvas humpy and
bough or cane-grass shed to the galvanised
iron dwelling, and thence to the stone or
brick house, is distinct. But along the coas-
tal belt, with its wealth of bark and timber,
there is such a heterogeneous mixture that
it would take a genius to sort them out.
The bark hut is recognised as emblematic
of the first period of settlement: but, now-
adays, many people begin on the land with a
little capital, and start with a good house
built of sawn timber and roofed with galva-
nised iron. Many of them are merely lined
at first, the stud-ribs standing bare for
years before the weatherboards are put on:
others are weatherboarded first, and lined
later when money has accumulated. There
is, again, the all-iron house, and the all-bark
mansion, either of which eventually becomes
a barn or shed. .
What may be taken as a typical settler
house, all considered, is that built or rough
timber, with slab walls and shingle root.
There is usually a verandah in front and a
skillion at the back. It is sometimes floored
with slabs, but often there is nothing but
the bare earth, which requires frequent
watering to keep it firm. Bags, kangaroo
skins and an occasional cow-hide are thrown
down here and there for mats._ The gaps be-
tween the slabs are stuffed with bagging, or
nailed over with strips of tin, and the walls
inside are covered with newspaper. J-ne
room is thus an open book, plentifully illus-
trated. It is not, however, a convenient
book to read. One has to stand on a chfur,
or on “the stool,” to start at the top of the
page, and go down on his hands and knees
on the floor when he gets to the bottom.
The fireplace is one of the main features
of the domicile. It would put to shame many
of the rooms in city lodging-houses. When
a couple of big logs have been put on the
fire, there is room enough around them to
accommodate a large family. It is a sit-
ting-room in winter. The youngsters play
with firestieks, see visions in the flames, and
kill centipedes, scorpions and other things
that crawl out of hollow logs. The mother
whitewashes the walls once a week with a
solution of ashes.
Just outside the door is the water cask,
standing on a slide. Another cask, or an
iron tank, roosts at the corner, under an
assortment of home-made spouting, the root
being the catchment area. By the step is
a scraper, made of hoop-iron, supported by
two stakes. There in a tin dish on a bench,
or propped up on three stakes, with a sar-
dine-tin nailed to the wall above it, to hold
soap. Here the family perform their ablu-
tions. The towel, which serves for all hands,
hangs on the inner side of the back door.
The bath is a hole in the creek—“down be-
low where we dip our water. ’ xhese little
items are pointed out to you when you call,
if you are staying long enough to require a
wash. , . .
The furniture is of the sort that can take
care of itself, scorns polish and varnish,
and smiles serenely at rough usage. _ The
table and cupboard legs stand in tins or
water, or have bands of rabbit-skins round
them, to prevent ants from climbing. The
family sits at table on stools, cases, wood-
blocks, oil-drums and the sofa. Often
every article of furniture is home-made, in-
cluding the bedstead, which may have a
batten deck, or a network of fencing-wire.
Distributed about the place are the sapling
yards and pens, gallows (with, bullocks
heads and hoofs lying about), pig-sty and
hen roost; and across a clear spot, where
it is most likely to catch a horseman round
the neck and half strangle him, if it doesn t
drag him out of the saddle, is the inevitable
clothes-line, stretched. from tree to tree.
Another ever-present item is the. big stack
of wood, with half an acre of chips around
it. It is dumped down where it is handiest
to tip the dray, which is as likely to be in
front of the house as at the back.
The fences near the homestead show some
variety of style. There is the dog-leg afore-
mentioned ; the chock-and-log, the log-and-
stub, the brush, the cockatoo, sapling-rail
and the zigzag. All require a mass of tim-
ber and a lot of hard labor to construct, and
they make a great blaze when a bush fire
happens along.
When the bullock-dray, or the cart, is
wanting, there is bound to be a slide of some
sort about the premises. The commonest is
simply the fork of a tree, with a couple, of
pegs at each side. This is used for. drawing
water, the cask being stood on or laid across
it, with a wet bag over it to keep the water
from splashing out. . One has to be careful
in turning corners with it, for it always has
an inclination to turn turtle, except when
going straight ahead on level ground.
A slide used by the early Richmond River
farmers was made of two slabs placed on
edge, bevelled at the ends, with cross-pieces
mortised in and roughly decked with bat-
tens. Some put sides and ends to it, so that
it resembled a huge case. This was used
for conveying the ears of corn from the
farm, to save the trouble of bagging. These
people took great pride in their slides, and
when one invented some trifling improve-
ment, or fashioned a new variation of the
monstrosity, others would go miles to see it.
Another turn-out was fashioned somewhat
like the box slide, but ran on low, block
wheels, sawn off a log, and revolving on
wooden axles. I remember one Sunday
seeing a farmer take his family for a drive
round the crop in one of these primi-
tive vehicles. The sides were so high
that you could see nothing of the
passengers while they were sitting down;
they viewed the landscape through the
cracks. All went well till going down
a bit of a slope, when, there being no brakes
on the concern, it ran on to the horse’s heels.
That patiently plodding animal remonstrated
against this indignity by lashing out with
great vigor. He sent Haysged backwards
with such force that a subsequent jerk drove
him right through the other end, to the ac-
companiment of broken battens and splin-
ters. The old horse didn’t bolt; he merely
turned round as if to look at the thing be-
hind him. Then the four-wheeler went over
with a crash, and a heap of terrified hu-
manity was spread out on the grass.
The queerest habitation I have seen in
the bush was built on four high stumps,
which were sawn off eight feet from the
ground. The owner, who was a hatter, had
to climb a ladder to get into it. The stumps
had sprouted, and almost covered the bark
roof with greenery. He said he built it so
that he could see when the cockatoos were
in his corn, and also to get away from
snakes.
In the north-west of N.S.W. the dug-out
is common, only the low roof showing above
ground. It is cool in summer and warm in
winter, besides being free from flies. A fos-
sicker and gardener lived for years in one
of these in the Mount Browne district. One
night, during a heavy storm, a dam along-
side burst, and the inrush of water washed
him out of his bunk. He escaped through
the roof, and spent the night watching the
overflow to see that nothing got away. It
took him two days to pump his house out,
then he had to leave the roof off for a week
to let it dry. To dive below like a wombat
was his ideal of comfort. But most people
look upon the dug-out with horror. As one
remarked; “Let’s keep on top while we can
kick. We’ll be underground long enough—
and soon enough.”
EDWARD S. SORENSON.


Oh! That Back!
Ache! Ache! Ache ! Takes all the life, all the energy
out of you. Makes you miserable. There is danger in it, too.
Neglect the warning of a bad back, you neglect an appeal from
the kidneys. When the back is bad, when it’s lame or weak,
when it aches, when it s tired, the kidneys are sick, demand
attention. Doan s Backache Kidney Pills relieve quickly the
aches and pains and weakness of a bad back. Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills cure all kidney ills, cure urinary troubles, too fre-
quent urinary discharges, retention of the urine, and all dangerous
disorders of the kidneys and bladder. If you fail to help the
kidneys in time, Diabetes, Dropsy, Bright’s Disease are sure
to follow. Doans Backache Kidney Pills are endorsed by
friends and neighbors, by people you know.
A SYDNEY WOMAN’S CURE.
•im^ rs ‘ St. John’s Eoad, Forest Lodge, says:—“For many years I suffered
with lumbago-like pains in the small of my back—one doctor said it was lumbago. I was doubled
up with pain, and could not get about to do my work. My rest was broken, as it is impossible
to sleep when the back is aching. I was very bad, and could get nothing to relieve me,
although I consulted doctors, and tried kidney remedies. I saw a testimonial in the paper
about a friend of mine having been cured by Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and I started to
.use them. After taking six bottles I was quite free of the pains.”
■ Three years later Mrs. Smith says: —“l am pleased to state now that I have been free of
backache, etc., since Doan’s Pills cured me, three years ago.”
nr-Ty--
JBBBEzSeesk&o^L
domts
Backache
Kidney
PILLS.
A t all Chemists and Stores, 2/9
per bottle (six bottles, 15/3),
or from Foster-McClellan Co.,
76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
An Illawarra Idyll.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
At Bega a concert was given, when the aborigines,
with no other apparatus'than a gum-leaf stretched
tightly across the bottom lip, played sentimental
ballads. —News item.
WHEN the night was nearly morning
And the wind no longer moaned,
When the silence, shadow’s shadow,
To the- list’ning soul intoned
! Wondrous psalms of mystic burden,
Muffled notes of far-off truth,
By a cold lake near the ocean
| Lonely mourned a warrior youth.
Illawarra, Illawarra,
Mirror of the hills and stars,
By whose shores in tribal warfare
I have gained my honored scars,
Listen to: my plaintive chanting,
Hear my early fancy’s doom,
Gone for ever is Eurara
Perished my, -sweet forest • bloom. •
Illawarra, Illawarra,
„Like your own deep heart is stirred.
When the storm-fiend frowns upon you
And his thunder-voice is heard;
When with awful lightning glances
In his wrath he cracks the sky.
So my breast was fiercely sljaken
At Eurara’s dying cry,
Illawarra, Illawarra,
Soon to flash back morning rays
As the shield repels the . foe’s spear
In our people’s wild affrays,
Join a while to mine your moaning,
For she loved your- bright blue eye—
Dear Eurara, dead Eurara,
Hear two faithful lovers sigh.
Illawarra, Illawarra, .
Joy has vanished from the world,
Only left its bitter mem’ry
With my constant tears impearled ,
Ling’ring here is ever dying
Once that life’s great hope has fled ;
Hark! I hear Eurara calling.
Calling to me from the dead.
Illawarra, Illawarra, j
Singing to the silver moon
With your wavy tongues unnumbered
In a strange melodious tune,
Lower yet your ancient burden, j
Softer still your lapping song,
Whisper to my loved Eurara
We shall not be parted long.
Illawarra, Illawarra,
Many moons have we been frienus,
By your side my life was fashioned,
On your bosom now it ends.
Past are all my days of sorrow,
All my woes for ever dumb,
Dear Eurara, dead Eurara,
I am coming, I am come.
When the grey was gently fawning • , .
On the oriental gloom,
When the day was softb r dawning,
All the shadows to illume,
Plunged into the lake'a warrior, .
Vanquished by his faithful love; '
“Illawarra, Illawarra*,” *
Ever sing the waves above.
N.S.W.
BY GUM.
The Custom of the Country.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
YOU’LL have to bend to the custom
of the country, old man,” said Ox-
ley, with a laugh, as he refilled his
pipe and stretched his long legs out upon
the verandah. “What is the use of your
trotting up and down like a caged tiger?
Don’t insult the Korror people by the rejec-
tion of the highest comoliment they and their
chief can pay a man! Sit down and have a
brandy and soda. Here, Brown, make some
more soda-water.”
Lotherington, master of the barque Man-
esca, sat down, muttering bad words under
his breath. A tall, big man of over 50, with
deep-set,’ steady eyes—the strong face of a
strong man. For a minute or so he stroked
his well-trimmed, grey moustache and beard,
staring hard at his ship, anchored close in to
the beach, the bright moonlight revealing her
spars, cordage and white decks as clearly as
if they were under the rays of a midday sun.
A mile distant, on the opposite beach of the
bay, were the clustered houses of the main
village of Korror Harbor, in thte Pelew Is-
lands. ’Twas late at night, the wind had
died away, and no sound broke 1 the silence,
except the occasional “plop” of some leaping
fish.
The silent-slippered Chinese boy,'“Brown,”
brought the soda-water, and the trader poured
out a couple of. drinks. He was a pleasant-
looking fellow of 30, with dark, merry eyes
shining from a face tanned to the hue of
pump-leather.
“Here’s luck, Loth, old chap ; and, by
thunder, you are in.luck!”
Lotherington drank, then, set down his
glass, and gazed moodily at his companion.
Presently he finished the liquor, and said, in
aggrieved tones : . •
“Here, give me another. You are driving
me to di-ink, you long-legged, black-faced
pig.”
Again Oxley laughed as ' he passed the
skipper the bottle. - He' knew his man well,
and meant to make his guest yield. They
had been old shipmates on the Manesca when
Oxley was chief mate. xVnd the men liked
each other.
Oxdey knew that Lotherington was anxious
.to make enough to be able to give up the sea
and buy a place in Gippsland. It had for-
merly belonged to his wife’s fattier, but the
bank had foreclosed. Five thousand pounds
would release it, and also free him from
much mental worry, for Mrs. Lotherington’s
heart was set upon his getting the place back.
That it was a good bargain he knew well, but
he could not - manage it for some years yet
unless he sold the Manesca.
“Can’t I satisfy this old idiot of a chief in
any other way than this?” he said at last.
“No, you cannot. It is the biggest com-
pliment he can tender you. To decline would
not only be bad policy, but will mean a heavy
loss to you financially. Why, old Thule
rules the whole of the Pelew Group. You
will have the whole trade in your hands —or,
rather, I as your representative will—and
can make a small fortune in two or three,
years. And then there is that station in :
Gippsland” -■ • •
‘‘Shut up, confound you! If you are my.
representative here, why can’t you take the
matter on instead of me? You have one
native wife, and she w r on’t mind you taking
another one for a month or so. And I ani a
married man, and I’ll be hanged if I am
going to have any brown girl planked down
on me against my will. Take it on yourself,
I sa y ”
.“Frankly, I would, if the chance were
S^hliafe^Ytr^irt
iaKe anotner nip.
i. E Oxley. If the wife got to
know of it she would leave me. You know
her and her Churchy views.”
Oxley nodded. He did know the lady.
“I tell you, man, it would mean ruina-
tion to me. She would be bound to hear of
it some time or another. 1 can’t trust my
crew to hold their tongues. And they
would blackmail me. They’d hire a brass
band and make the whole thing public in
, St. Kilda if 1 didn’t part. I wish to the
Lord that I pretended I didn’t see Chief
Abba Thule and his fleet of water-logged
proas, and let the whole lot of ’em be turned
into blue sharks’ meat. Two hundred miles
from land when we picked ’em up. And I
gave the whole 61 of ’em a passage here to
Korror, with all the tucker they could iay
into ; and now” ,
“And now you will be repaid 70 times
seven for your humane conduct, and none
of your crew will be any the wiser. I have
apian. You know that big lump of an island
off: the north end of Babelthouap? Well,
on it is one of Abba Thule’s ‘country houses.’
He and liis retinue go there for pig-hunting
and turtle-catching. Savee? Now, you are
going there for a week’s sport, d’ye
see! It’s a grand place, and the barque will
be, all right with the mate in charge. Don’t
worry any more, but be thankful. I’ll see
that you’ll get the sole right of three years’
trading in the group from Thule and his
chiefs. It’ll be worth £l5OO a year. Of
course I get the usual 10 per cent, commis-
sion on all the trade goods that you’ll sell,
and on all the oil and pearlshell that you’ll
buy. 1 ou’ve saved his life and the lives of
60 of his subjects, and restored him to the
bosom of liis youngest and favorite wife,
Her name is Siria, and she’s as pretty as a
dream.”
n j. • r xu • ,
Captam Lotherington snorted, reached
0U j big brown hand, took some brandy,
aad then held out the glass for soda-water.
Ver y weli, he said; have it your own
way, and be hanged to you you always
were an interfering beast. Good, night, I’m
So ‘‘Rie°lU b °nhi d 'rmi hlS ,, w histle.
g a ’ a°!i send off. a mes-
Abba Thuld in the morning, and
time ?? Set bIS country b° use in
order. He won t co .y. e near you. It would
be a shocking, horribly shocking, breach of
etiquette—and he’s too much of a gentle-
man to think of such a thing.”
* * * *
L n the Western Carolines and the Pelevs
native customs die hard; for the chiefs are
°f great mana, and the American mis-
sionaries of those days beat the Gospel
, in vain. The people were conserva-
loyal to their chiefs, and afraid of
dsF 11 ?’. es Pecially of a big chief like old Abba
Din’ , w j l( ? se rather, grandfather and his
rather had been of the same name and mana
as hl ?r sel r- And Oxley was a man of wide
experience of the rigidity of native custom
and ceremony, and too keen a man of busi-
ness to show any disregard of or respect for
that he WaS not interfered
ed^a E certain * distric t U o f isknd tf
Thule came to the rescue. He sent food,
fishing nets, etc., and men to assist the
stricken people to re-plant their taro, yam
and sugar-cane.
Three months afterwards a flotilla of proas
sailed into Ivorror Harbor, and anchored in
front of Abba Thule’s village. They were
sent by the chief of the district which he
bad succored. On board the largest proa,
which was gaily decorated, were two of the
chief’s favorite wives, arrayed in their finest
mats. They were sent to Abba Thule as a
token of gratitude. He (and his own wives
as well) received them with great honors
and ceremony. At the end of a month he
returned the ladies to their lord and master
loaded with presents.
“These are good customs,” remarked Thuld
to Oxley, after his guests had gone. “They
are good for the people who themselves ob-
Serve th ? m \ T he 7 Preserve amity and faka-
am<?Fglt the tribes, and
f the chiefs 1S thus made
oniVl f „ Q(W „„„„ ,
diae ’ said * tradei, gravely,
mi. „ *
n u WaS rof l dy f ? r T S< Tu by the
l irn n e day f bad passed, and Lotherington
bad ret urned—-as quietly as he; had gone
5™- 1 ?l and f , oxley W T hav ! ag a final
;? ef ° re . tbe ™ on the. table was _ a
• ml e sheet of foolscap, written on one side
ia Engll sh, on the other in the Pelew lan-
f au ?®‘ P Lk^rri! ll^ Bll1 ■, T ere A® to , tem
™ ar b s of Abba Thule and four of his subor-
dmat® chiefs, and at the foot was Oxley’s
Slgaature and totem- ,
, , ou ?L as P 1<: all, doia t you? asked the
tradei. It is a great piece of business. It
t S g ? od tor three years, but is renewable,
j n ? 1X . moa , s there wont be an opposition
trader m the group—we have the bulge on
them now. Your humanity and kindness to
those 61 people have brought their just re-
ward. Here’s to both our noble selves!”
They clinked glasses together, and the can-
tain said as he set his down • —-
“All the same, Tom Oxley. I was a fool
to have her name tattooed on mv arm. The
old woman will ask questions.”
“Tell her it is the name of an important
chief with whom, for practical business pur-
poses, you have exchanged names and blood-
relationship And then talk to her about
the place in Gippsland.”
LOUIS BECKE.


/
i<r.
N *
'
En
me
>
'
3NI&VW
AaVNOUVAS ->o=l
No
Carburetter
or
Vaporiser.
mnb
No
Ignition
Apparatus.
makes the following claims upon your attention :
i—lt uses cheap lamp oil (such as kerosene), and other residuals.
2 ~The oil is injected directly into the cylinder, thus dispensing with unre-
liable and inefficient vaporisers.-
3 It is very simple in construction, there being no electric ignition or other
complicated mechanism.
4 Its speeds are such that electric generators and centrifugal pumps may
be coupled direct.
5 No skilled labor is required, the supply of fuel and lubricant being all
the attention necessary.
FUI.L PARTICULARS PROM
The Westinghouse Brake Company of Australasia Ltd.,
14 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Queensland Agents: Holmes & Church, Brisbane.
mnbm
nb
Live in Comfort
in the Hot Weather
IT COSTS VERY LITTLE FOR OUR FANS.
THEY RUN FOR SEVERAL HOURS for Id.
an oa s nosivm o m
,mjh
FOR REMOVAL OR STORAGE
of furniture or personal effects, no firm will give more prompt or satisfactory service than we
do. . YVe have an immense pi int—and trained staff. Our quote will save you money.
Ring up NOW.
Telephones: City 1290, Central 476, 2028, 4012.
Sanders, Sutton & Whitehead Ltd.,
REMOVAL AND STORAGE EXPERTS,
Head Office————43 King 1 Street, Sydney.
DEPOTS; Ohatswood, Mosman, Waveriey, Burwcod, Dulwich Hill, Kograrah, Parramatta and Manly.
;,S-
-sm l«- M
.
Guaranteed 2 Years.
- This is our 2-h.p.
1 Hand Portable Engine.
ML
ENGINE
Otto Four Cycle Type.
WE ARE THE ONLY FIRM ADVERTISING
OUR PRICES OPENLY.
Don’t be misled by competitors who offer “lowest prices and long terms.”
No one can sell an engine of equal quality under DOUBLE OUR PRICES
Get prices and compare them with ours. We have an immense sale,
a °d this allows of small profits on our big turnover.
nb
All complete, with Tanks and Pipes, f.o.b.
Sydney. You have no fittings to buy—
Everything is supplied by us.
Small Deposit.
Terms.
Write for Catalogues and full particulars of All Kinds of Oil Engines,
Pumping, Chaffcutting, and all other Classes of Machinery.
PARTRIDGE & HODGSON,
Mad
Office:
49 YORK STREET,
339 COLLINS
THE BEST STORIES written in Australia
appear in The Rone Hand each nlonth.
Price sixpence.
BOOKS WORTH READING. The new
guide to the new fiction appears in each
issue of The Lone Hand.
New Digestions for Old
—strength for debility—cheerfulness for despondency—health for ill-
health—such are the good results following a course of Beecham’s
Pills. If you are suffering from indigestion or any of the complaints to
which it gives rise you v/rll find the World’s Family Medicine remove
the trouble and restore the organs to healthy action. This, at least,
has been the experience of hundreds of thousands of people who have
been led to adopt it during the pcist three generations and there is no
reason why it should not be your experience, also. Dyspepsia, liver
and kidney derangements, biliousness, headaches, sickness, constip-
ation ate some of the many disorders from which you may find relief
After Taking
BEECHAM’S
PILLS.
Sold everywhere in boxes, price Vl\ (56 pills) & 2/9 (168 pills),
BUSINESS MEN and OTHERS in need of FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE
SHOULD CONSULT
CITY FINANCE COMPANY LIMITED,
Palmer’s Chambers, 289 Pitt St., Sydney,
who LEND MONEY on any REASONABLE SECURITY
from 10 PER CENT, per annum. frkd. Mcwilliam. Manager.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
■
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Club Rum.
Dog Head Stout. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
J
V
<?
V!
The
Good
Samaritan
JUST
IN
/TIME
HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE
, * -
The Grandest Remedy for
COUGHS and COLDS
A dose or two is generally sufficient
KEEP A BOTTLE IN THE HOUSE
SOLD by all CHEMISTS and STORES


ARCHITECTS specify
Mack Partitions
and have a Fire-Proof,
♦Sound-Proof
and Vermin-Proof
DIVIDING WALL.
Write for our Catalogue, or call and inspect.
MACK LTD.,
Royal Insurance Buildings,
Cor. PITT and SPRING STREETS, SYDNEY.
Melbourne Office: 19 Queen Street.
TELEPHONES.
House, Long-Distance and all kinds of Telephone
Equipment in stock—Low Prices.
Dynamos, Motors, Cables and Wires, and every-
thing in Electrical Supplies on hand.
WRITE FOR PRICE LISTS TO
T. K. STEANES, 37-43 Pitt Street, Sydney.
: [6
Fireproof Buildings of
Fibro-Cement (Asbestos) Sheets
at the cost of Weatherboards.
Suitable for Dwellings, Theatres, Hails,
Warehouses, etc.
Timber is dear, so is labor. You only require about
three-fourths the quantity of studding' and labor for a
building of Fibro-Cement.
LOOK AT THE SAVING THAT IS MADE.
Fibro-Cement is made of best Portland cement reinforced
with Asbestos.
FIRE, HEAT, ROT and ANT PROOF.
Easily erected by ordinary carpenter. Outlasts timber,
iron, or lath and plaster.
CONSTANTLY IMPROVES WITH LAPSE OF TIME.
Supplied also in Slates for roofing.
Write for Lithos and Catalog: L to sole Importers—
JAMES HARDIE & CO.,
Circular Quay West, Sydney.
WOLF
FOR MEN
FOR WOMEN
The Family Stimulant.
NAPPS
m,nb
it
McINNES DOBBIE” INDICATORS
For Steam, Oil or Gas Engines and Ammonia Compressors.
The Most Extensively Used Indicator on the Market. LARGE STOCK OF INDICATORS and ACCESSORIES CARRIED.
SELLERS’ PATENT PORTABLE DYNAMOMETERS
For ascertaining the Brake or Effective Horse=power of
Steam, Oil or Gas Engines and Electric Motors.
. WILDRIDGE S SINCLAIR LTD., S 2 Pitt St., Sydney.
Melbourne.
Brisbane.
ENGINEERS,
IRON FOUNDERS,
BOILER MAKERS,
&Ci
MEPHAN FERGUSON
PROPRIETARY LIMITED.
Governinci Directors
Head Office and Works:
MEPHAN FERGUSON
ROBERT SHAND
Gordon St., Footscray, Victoria.
Manufacturers of
WROUGHT IRON,
GAST IRON, and
STEEL PIPES.
Our WORKSHOPS are fitted with MODERN High-Speed TOOLS.
We manufacture ELECTRIC ELEVATORS.
WARBURTON, FRAN KB, LTD,, 307-311 Kent Street* Sydney . 454 Flinders Street , Melbourne .
CQ
ft
&
ov
n
&
m
§teh
Norton Grinding' Wheels
Made of ALUBMPUM. The advantages of this material over every
other known in the manufacture of Grinding Wheels lie in its
peculiar combination of hardness, sharpness and temper.
Whether your proposition is grinding special alloy, high-carbon
or high-speed steeS, cast or chilled iron, brass or bronze, we can
confidently recommend one of the above wheels for the work. Large
stocks on hand of all grades and grains.
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.,
Agents:
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
60 Clarence Street, Sydney.
m
y-'V
ABBOTT WATER FILTERS.
AUSTRALIAN IVIANUFACTURE.
The summer is approaching, and Householders should insure the health of their families by installing
“THE ABBOTT.”
Counter Filters, Fountain Filters, Table Filters, Tank Filters.
SEND FOR. CATALOGUE.
mnb
SOLE MANUFACTURERS,
Sydney § Melbourne.
m,
