

’S
*
THE WHISKY OF WHISKIES
R. <3r. £& CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
K'±' * —FOR—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS' and GENERAL IRONMONGERY.
NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
S t
Herbert’s Capstan
and Turret Lathes.
Save Labor.
Increase Output.
535 Kent Street, Sydney,
AND
486 Collins Street, Melbourne,
B.A. Agent: C. C. DELAND, Bowman's Bldgs., Adelaide.
HOBART.
~offi
Hadley’s Orient Hotel.
PIONEER
LEATHER BELTING
Guaranteed.
J. C, Ludowici & Son, Ld.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
Take it back.
I must have-
HUTTON* S
Fine Apple Brand
SEND FOR A OOPV OF
CHUBB’S NEW CATALOGUE.
JUNKET
made from these genuine Tablets is
recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the diges-
tive organs.
J
-HA n s e ns
For INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSiA
One of these specially-prepared Tablets acts most
beneficially when taken daily after meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prise Medals.
(OcuLf&i/ i* %*'
Qjtu
aW .
Jfa ur&£\i4s*» tyazxL' Co fotds.
■!& f „ .-V
S* ® _ V I* J K <° ** (,<■
,? V V si>- J- * *
%
Money advanced upon all Securities at Reasonable
Rates of Interest.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
THIS COMPANY WAS FORMED TO SUPPRESS USURY.
And at MELBOURNE, BRISBANE and NEWCASTLE.
Royal
Dutch
b the Queen of all Cocoas
lAroma.Strei\qtK^Puritv:
r
SPECIFY HALTHOID ROOFING.
It is the one Roofing that gives
f
Satisfaction alike to the Architect,
Builder and Owner.
THE PARAFFINE PAINT COMPANY, CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Steam and Power Pumps,
Cream Attemperators and Blenders,
“The Hercules” Refrigerating Machine.
c. a. Macdonald, ltd.,
63 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Old
as the
Hills.
•3? JE3E O JEfc 3V ES’Sft
WHISKV.
F ragrant
as the
Heather.
HELIDON SPA WATER
Please choose your “ SPA ” carefully.
You may be_penaJised_otherwjse^^^
DEWHURST 8 HALLORAM, Ltd.,
The Bulletin
V01.32.—N0. 1619,]
[Thursday, February 23, 1911.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


•omaama qnv
NO SHOOS
Birkmire : Architectural Iron and Steel, 18s, p. 18s 9d.
Ctyeap Dwelling's Actually Built, Is Bd, posted Is sd.
Desmond and Frohne : Building a Home, 9s, posted 9s 9d.
Ferguson : Architectural Perspective, 3s 6d, posted 4s.
Fletcher, B.: History of Architecture, 255, posted 265.
Freitag’s Architectural Engineering, 18s, posted 18s 9d.
Haddon’s Australian Architecture, 15s, posted l'ss 9d.
Kidder’s Architects and Builder’s Pkt. Bk., 255, p. 26s 9d.
Macy’s Specification in Detail, 255, posted 26s 6d.
Adam’s Building- Construction, 9s, posted 9s 9d.
Allen’s Pract. Building Construction, 9s, posted 9s 9d.
Christie’s Chimney Design and Theory, 15s, posted 15s Bd.
Hodgson’s Modern Estimator, 6s, posted 6s 6d.
May’s Australian Builder’s Price Book, 7s 6d, posted Bs.
Mitchell’s Brickwork and Masonry, 9s, posted 9s Bd.
Mitchell’s Building Construction, Ist stage, 3s, p. 3s 6d.
Mitchell’s Building Construction, Advanced Course. 6s.
posted 6s 6d. ’
Notes on Building Construction, Part 1., 12s 6d ; Part 11,, 12s 6d ; Part 111., 21s: Part IV., 16s ; postage Is per volume
GEORGE ROBERTSON & CO. PROP., LTD., 238 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
HUDSON’S
“EUMENTHOL JUJUBES.”
The Great Antiseptic and Prophylactic,
contains no cocaine or other poisonous
drug.
For COUGHS, COLDS, SORE THROATS,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA, and the
PREVENTION OF CONSUMPTION.
The Lancet Laboratory report is conclusive evidence
of the value of “ Eumenthol Jujubes as an Antiseptic.”
The Lancet says “ Proved to be as effective
bactericidally as is creosote.”
Sold by all Chemists, post free on receipt of 1/6 stamps.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL COMPANY, LTD., 19 York Street, SYDNEY.
the Australian States, New Zealand, and at 320 Regent Street, London.
A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
0. The Bronchial
Tubes of a dis-
sected Lung.
D. A Lobe of one
of the Lungs.
Agencies in all
THE RED PAGE
The Infinite Capacity— Cosmo Hamilton (Sydney
Book Club). Another story of genius—a
violinist this time—who is as ravishing as
Paginini, and looks like “a materialised
Botticelli.” The artistic temperament has a
good outing in charge of a capable writer.
Max— Katherine Thurston (Dymock’s). A story
for women. The plot will not bear inspec-
tion ; but it is covered with the velvety fluff
which they like after a strenuous day at the
bargain counters.
Sport of Gods —H. Vaughan-Sawyer (Sydney Book
Club). Above the average of Indian military
stories.
The Simpkins' Plot —Geo. A. Birmingham (Nel-
son). The writer, who is officially the Rev.
J. O. Hannay, of Mayo, Ireland, has improved
upon his earlier novels— Bad Times, etc. This
is a bright, readable story.
* * « *
“Everyman’s Library,” which now numbers
500 volumes, includes a few reference books which
are marvels of value for the money—ls. each. A
Biographical Dictionary of English Literature,
Atlas of Classical Geography and Smith’s Classical
Dictionary, should be useful to any reader who
cannot afford the bulky and expensive elder
brothers of these three books.
One of the best of the new “Everyman”
volumes is Aucassin and Nicolette with, other
Mediaeval Romances —a collection of over a dozen
good stories not easily obtainable elsewhere.'
NOCTURNE.
Sleep gently drew her magic mist
About the dark and silent trees.
The white moon, slowly rising up,
Seemed like a bubble in a cup
Carved of a wondrous amethyst
For feasts of old divinities.
The long black land on either side
Clutched at the white and quivering bay.
Like some foul, nameless, shapeless thing
Of night and Hell, that strives to fling
Its loathly arms about the bride
Of some sea-king, slain far away.
The wind had drunk of poppy flowers,
And slept beside them. Oh, how still
The night was ! Sound itself seemed pent
Within the long, low battlement
Of sullen cloud, like prison towers
That served to wreak a tyrant’s will.
Your face was turned toward the moon,
Your white hands lay on your white dress :
As when some frail moonbeam has strayed
To earth, and gazes, half afraid,
IJp the long pathway, star.ry-strewn.
Where passed her pure, cold loveliness.
N.S.W.
FRIPTZ S. BURNELL.
Post-Impressionism and the Ra-
cinistes.
By reason of some elusive psychic factor
there is one catchword which finds us all
responsive, and the catchword is Art with
the traditional big A as intoned by the
Painter,’ Sculptor or Graver. Whistler com-
plained that “ Art is upon the Town ! —to be
chucked under the chin by the passing gallant
—to be enticed within the gates of the house-
holder—to be coaxed into company as a proof
of culture and refinement. ” An apter ground
of resentment might perhaps have been that
few popular cries are so surely provocative of
chicanery, angry puzzlement and studied per-
sonal insult. In order to generate the electric
spark of exacerbation nature requires at the
one pole either an artist or Art Dealer of
sufficient intelligence to boldly grasp the
fact that frank buffoonery in these misty
realms may pass unchallenged, and at
the other pole the never failing Art
Critic who is afraid, and very prudently
so, to voice opinions upon matters which he
knows at the bottom of his dark and angry
heart he is not entitled to advise about.
None of us, unless of the profession, would
be insulted at the suggestion that we were
ignorant of doctoring, auctioneering or
sheep-shearing; but to a man we would
resent the implication that we were ignorant
of “Art.” It is this psychic factor whieh
has made possible the astounding success of
the Exhibition of the Post-Impressionist
School at the Grafton Galleries in London.
In a crescendo of polysyllabic praise (not to
say meaningless prose) there have been pub-
lished about it books, articles in the
monthlies from the Fortnightly downwards,
in the weeklies from the Saturday Review
downwards, and the mere dailies have simply
worn straws in the hair over the matter.
I despair of conveying to the Australian
painter a full (or even medium) realisation
of what the Exhibition really is. If he realise
that London is the ideal home of the impostor,
that would help. It was in London that de
RougemOnt gravely told his tale of great
flights of migrating wombats, and found
learned scientists to take him seriously. In
Paris, any novel proposition, however pre-
posterous —say, for instance, the desirability
of parricide—will always get an attentive
hearing. It will be either accepted or re-
jected in a judicial spirit. In London it is
either not listened to at all, or swal-
lowed whole. Paris carefully considered
the case of the Post-Impressionists some
five years ago, and decided to bury them
promptly. Most of us remember Balzac’s
famous Jew character, the Baron de Nucin-
gen, the man who was always ready to do a
deal in any goods that came his way, whether
a shipwreck, a Paul Veronese, or a cargo of
stale fish. Last summer a ghoulish band of
de Nucingens nosed out the cemetery in
which Paris had interred her artistic dead,
and, having purchased this pictorial Necro-
polis on advantageous terms, dug up the
gloomy cadavers it contained. These re-
mains have filled the Grafton Galleries Ltd.
and the de Nucingens with profits, and the
London public with emotion. There are
206 paintings in all, over 100 of which are
“ lent ” either by Bernheim, Jenne et Cie or
the Galeries Drouet. In regard to a large
proportion of the remainder, the “ lenders”
modestly withhold their names. A guaran-
tee of good faith is given by the inclusion of
eight Edouard Manets. '
The Post-Impressionists intend to imply,
it is to be supposed by their name and, above
all, by their association with Manet, that
they are further pushing forward the Im-
pressionist propaganda. Impressionism was
the proper embodiment of that repugnance
to such painful symptoms of the Victorian
age, as, say, the paintings of Winterhalter
and the writings of Mrs. Gaskell, and it
found its highest expression in the paintings
of Degas and the writings of Wilde.
The Impressionists, in the necessary and
legitimate employment of a meretricious
effect, had created a certain etiquette of
genius, such as long hair, the flat-brimmed
hat, and uncomfortable domestic surround-
ings. In this regard, at all events,-the Post-
Impressionists became, in a sense, more
conventional than the originators of the con-
vention themselves. Boldly pushing forward
the long-hair theory, they carefully ran their
lives along lines of dipsomania, poly-
andry, stabbing affrays and indifferent serag-
lios, culminating in instances in those
lunatic asylums where a certain proportion
of these pictures were actually painted. An
instance in the career of one of the great
masters of the school, Van Gogh (1833-1890)
helps to illustrate the point. Passing the
evening in a cafe with Gauguin, another of
the great masters, a furious quarrel broke
out between the two upon a point of jealousy.
Van Gogh, having failed in an attempt to
stab Gauguin, rushed from the cafd, the
tears streaming from his eyes, into a neigh-
boring house where the two at times re-
sorted, and there, seizing a razor, cut off his
right ear in token of remorse.
\l>
I now quote from the Foreword to the
Exhibition Catalogue an exposition of the
point of view of the Post-Impressionists by
their own spokesman. After explaining that
“ The Post-Impressionists are not concerned
with recording impressions of color light or
anything else exactly ” the author goes on to
allow that:
There is no denying that the work of the Post-
Impressionists is sufficiently disconcerting. It
may even appear ridiculous to those who do not
recall the fact that a good rocking-horse often has
more of the true horse about it than an instantan-
eous photograph of a Derby winner.
“ The artists who felt most the restraint which
the Impressionist attitude towards Nature imposed
upon them, naturally looked to the mysterious
and isolated figure of Cezanne as their deliverer . .
C&sanne . . . aimed first at a design which should
produce the coherent, architectural effect
of the masterpieces of primitive art .. .
the path he indicated was followed by
two younger artists, Van Gogh and Gauguin,
with surprising results. Van Gogh’s tur-
bulent temperament forced him to express in
paint his strongest emotions, and in the methods
of Cezanne he found a means of conveying the
wildest and strangest visions conceived by any
artist of our time.
The author of the Foreword, having traced
the history of the movement down to Matisse,
says of the latter that:
His relation to a modern public is peculiar. In
the earliest ages of art the artist’s public were able
to share in each successive triumph of his skill,
for every advance he made was also an advance
towards a more obvious representation of things
as they appeared to everybody. Primitive art,
like the art of children, consists not so much in
an attempt to represent what the eye perceives as
to put a line round a mental conception of the
object. Like the work of the primitive artist, the
pictures children draw are often extraordinarily
expressive. But what delights them is to find
that they are acquiring more and more skill in
producing a deceptive likeness of the object
itself. Give them a year of drawing lessons and
they will probably produce results which will give
the greatest satisfaction to them and their rela-
tions; but to the critical eye the original expres-
siveness will have vanished completely from their
work.
London, though still severely rattled, was
just beginning to recover from the effects of
this bombshell, when another was hurled in
on her by the Chelsea Arts Club.
In the course of a, dinner party at the
house of Derwent Wood—the guests being
mostly artists—talk switched to the Post-
Impressionists. Robert Fowler said it
seemed a pity that London, clamorous to
swallow anything, should be allowed to
clamor in vain. The immediate creation of
a new school was suggested, and an exhibi-
tion of the works of its members in the gal-
leries of the Chelsea Arts Club. Details of
this agreeable'practical joke were settled on
the spot. The period of the school was
fixed upon as the early nineteenth century,
and its home as France. The names of its
members were also evolved on this same
evening—parts being allotted to various
artists present. So came into being that
illustrious group, the Racinistes —the men
who were racinal , who went to the root of
things. The parts of Quinte Septule and
Aristide Schulfin were allotted to F. Der-
went Wood, A.R.A. Desire Prastin was
Dudley Hardy, R.W.S. Frank Waldo
Murray, became Francois Rotton. Mrs.
W. B. Fagan became Marie Louise Serre-
coeur, “the faithful friend and companion ”
of Rene Gaga—Young Hunter. Phillip Con-
nard became Bienaime Chiquet; Charles
Sims, A.R.A., was Anatole Respignac ; and
Robert Fowler, R. 1., Charles Turletin. The
writing of the Foreword to the catalogue of
the Exhibition was allotted to Paul G.
Konody, the Daily Mail art critic—probably
the only one of his craft in London who did
not lose his head over Post-Impressionism.
It was written that evening and signed
“Robert de Mancognes,” and the master-
pieces of the Racinistes, or School of
Chateaudun, were called into being by the
various artists on the following morning.
W
The Foreword to the catalogue tells visitors
to the Exhibition that this priceless collec-
tion is lent by “ the Vicomte Raoul de Ker-
nouac, the scion of an old Breton family
which, at the time of the Chouans rebellion,
settled near Chateaudun,” and who was “a
life-long friend and patron of the Racinistes,
repeatedly saving these brave fighters from
despair, and even from starvation.”
“ The Post-Impressionists,” goes on M. Robert
de Mancognes, “ what are they but the feeble epi-
gones of the Racinistes—that brave band of
fighters who gathered around Quinte Septule after
his flight from Paris, and formed the little
artists’ colony of Chateaudun.” ... “The head
and founder of the Raciniste school —I use the
term in its widest sense, as the members of this
group never held the relation of master and pupil
—was Quinte Septule (1823-1874). Born at Arles,
in Provence, the son of a prosperous charcutier,
Septule evinced from his earliest years an almost
abnormal talent for design. On the completion of
his course at the icole normale, he obtained a post
at the Beauvais tapestry works; for 14 years he
labored conscientiously for his employers, who
jealously kept the young master’s name in the
dark, as is the wont of commercial exploiters of
artistic talent.
“The Philistinism of his employers was unable
to grasp the profound emotional intellectuality of
this phase of Septule’s art, and a masterly design
of the ‘Expulsion,’ into which he had put the
whole cosmic force of his genius, led to his own
expulsion from the Beauvais Works. Embittered
but unshaken in his resolve to work out his own
salvation, he went to Paris. Here he found con-
solation in the company of a kindred spirit, an
ardent young painter, Charles Turletin (1834-
1901), whose uncompromising independence had
closed to him the gates of all public exhibitions.
... It was Turletin’s desire to get away from the
baneful influence of Nature that made the two
friends settle at Chateaudun, a lifeless little town,
situated in'a very desert of agricultural land, with
scarcely a tree to break the deadly monotony of
the endless plain. Here Turletin would plant his
easel before the limitless, featureless horizon, and
paint at the prompting of his instinct, undisturbed
by disquieting facts.
“Turletin became the artistic men tor of Aristide
Schulfin (1885-1902), a man of brilliant genius,
whose life was out short at the very beginning of
a most promising career. Schulfin had lost both
his parents at the age of four. In order that the
child should retain his vision A unspoilt by the
sophisticated productions of past art and develop
a style of truly archaic vigor and expressiveness,
Turletin took care that no painting or drawing or
print should ever fall into little Aristide’s hands,
with the result that at the age of eleven the boy had
already arrived at an absolutely personal, racinal
style. Schulfin only outlived his guardian by one
year. On the eve of his seventeenth birthday he
was found in his bed in a pool of blood, with a
smoking revolver in his lifeless hand.
“A tragic fate seemed to preside over the
destinies of the Racinistes. Francois Rotton had
a stroke of paralysis which lamed his entire right
side ; but with indomitable courage he continued
for six years to work with his left hand,
during which period he produced some of his
most remarkable drawings. Rene Gaga was sud-
denly struck down with locomotor ataxia, which
misfortune preyed to such an extent upon the
mind of his faithful friend and companion, Marie
Louise Serrecceur —an artist herself of no mean
power—that she had to be removed to a private
asylum. Jules Satout was made the object of
malicious persecution, and had to defend himself
before the Jugcd'lnttruction on a charge of immo-
rality. He was able to clear himself of the in-
famous allegation, but the affair embittered
Satout’s spirits and made him a confirmed misan-
thrope. Desir4 Prastin was only 26 when he died
in convulsions before his easel, from the poisonous
exhalation of certain pigments of his own inven-
tion. The sudden disappearance of Anatole Re-
spignac hits never been accounted for. In fact, of
all the Racinistes, Ghiquet and Romain
Gousson are the only two whose lives ran a fairly
smooth course, though Chiquet undermined his
health by the excesoive use of drugs.”
It may be said that the mad and drunken
tragedy of the lives, works, and (in most
cases) of the deaths of these Post-Impres-
sionists form no fitting subject-matter for a
joke. The joke is not against these poor
creatures, but against the critics who pro-
claimed their pictures as great masterpieces.
It might fairly and truly have been said that
some among these paintings betray certain
primal and even gorgeous qualities of color.
The same might be said of any Watts. But
one may, so to speak, detach any irrelevant
six square inches of a Watts from its context,
and in this alone one has a great master-
piece, even though it be only a morsel
of field or sky, for one has the product of
a master art-worker—a Cellini of technique
—expressed through his chosen medium.
A year ago these very galleries were filled
with the greatest works of the greatest of
the world’s masters, and they failed to
attract a twentieth part of the attention they
attract to-day.
London.
W. B. DALLEY.
Dorothea , by W. Siebenhaar, of Perth,
W.A., is an example of energy wasted—a
good intention which may be successful as a
paving-stone, but is a failure as poetry.
The author labels it as a lyrical romance;
but it is hard to disentangle any thread of
story from the hundred odd pages of print.
Apparently, the poet, after calling upon
Dorothea to be his Beatrix, likewise his
Emilia, pays a visit to Ceylon. Returning
to a place not named, he meets the lady and
has speech with her on lofty topics. Then
he speaks some more until she stops him
with a polite request for a lucid definition of
his doctrines.
Then said : “ I thus conceive their widest bearing
In consonance with action and expression
Of deep and earnest minds: first in declaring
All property a communal possession
Which only can be loaned, the two are sharing
One view, wherein must be comprised the cession
Of all production to the people’s state,
That they may organise and regulate.
Production shall a common duty be
To make consumption universal right;
This will be socialistic anarchy
Since all dominion sinks before the light
Of common interest, and liberty
Meets else no limit that can check its flight
Than the just claims of fellow men, divided
No longer, but by mutual goodwill guided.
Not even Shelley, who has evidently been
read by Siebenhaar, could argue satisfactorily
in verse on such dry material as this. And
what’s the use, when even Dorothea is
flummixed :
“I am,” she said when next we met, “indebted
For your kind words, although I may not wholly
Perceive their drift.”
A few months ago W. R. W. published in
Sydney a booklet of Poems about Adam,
Moses, Job and other Early Israelites. Evi-
dently these names are still a good draw, for
the edition sold out and the author has re-
printed the contents, with some additional
poems on secular subjects which are less
successful.
W. R. W. has a certain knack of tersely
rhyming the commonplaces of modern Biblical
criticism, without throwing any new light on
the old fables. These lines, which conclude
his disquisition on the worthy Hebrew poet
who was afflicted with boils and other things,
are typical:
In the whirlwind’s fearful might,
They, astonished, saw aright
That the finite, feeble mind
Of the wisest of mankind,
Failed to fathom or explain
Earthly happiness or pain.
In the new poems he occasionally achieves a
good effect, as in “ The Widower ” :
We built the homestead, fortune smiled,
The saltbush turned to wool;
The golden cup of happiness
With wine of life was full.
And he is capable of sprawling into prose
like this :
I sit in the room where we sat so oft
And ponder the memories of your love.
A little encouragement has induced him to
make this modest statement:
No student of literature should be without this
book, for there is food for thought in every line.
Lecturers, clergymen, poets and writers may
here find in condensed form what only years of
study can bring forth in simple and beautiful
diction well suited for apt and convincing quota-
tion.
And he threatens a third book of verse and
a book of fables! Behold, the grain of
mustard seed has grown, almost in a night, to
a good-sized horse-radish 1
* * * *
The Mare with the Silver Hoof \ by Bob
Allen (Bookstall Co.). A fair girl and a
chestnut mare in the Hawkesbury district
make a good racing yarn. Bob Allen is a
promising candidate for Nat Gould’s place
when that veteran retires. The illustrations
are by Percy Spence, and P.F.S.S. can
draw%n ’orse better than anything else.


(
vce
No. 0112—Nightdress in Madapolam,
Trimmed Imitation Torchon Lace,
Beading and Ribbons. 8/6.
No. 318.—Combinations in Nainsook,
trimmed Valenciennes Lace, with
Insertions and Ribbons, Women’s,
5/9 ; 0.5., 6/6.
*>
J
20Q
No. 208. —Chemise in Fine Lonsrclofih,
trimmed Embroidery, with Medallions atld
Ribbons, Women’s, 3/6 ; 0.5., 3/11.
m
773
No. 778.—Nightdress in Nainsook, Trimmed
Valenciennes Lace Insertion and Ribbons, 14/-
FOR FAMILY PRAPERY
Try a Course of
Anthony Horderns’ Famous Low Prices.
Top Quality at Bottom
Price is the Golden
Rule at the NEW
PALACE EMPORIUM.
!
320
No. 320. Combinations in
Madapolam, trimmed Infla-
tion Maltese Lace with Bead-
ing and Ribbons. Women’s,
7/- ; 0.5., 7/6.
No. 132—Combina-
tions in Nainsook,
trimmed TorchOn
Lade, Insertion and
Ribbon, 5/-
No. 321.—Combinations in
Madapolam, Trimmed Imita-
tion Maltese Lace, Beadinfr,
Insertion and Ribbons,
Women’s, 7/-; 0.5., 7/6.
No. 1371.—Princess Petti-
coat, in Madapolam,
tucked, inserted and
trimmed Real Torchon
Lace, 21/-
No. 218.—Combinations in
Long-cloth, Trimmed Em-
broidery and Insertion,
Beading: and Ribbons,
Women’s, 6/9 ; 0.5., 7/6.
•/S'
I
No. 1606. —Combina-
tions in Nainsook,
Trimmed Torchon
Lace and Insertion,
7/11.
Many other charming styles are illustrated
in our Price List of Ladies’ Underclothing.
Write for a copy, posted free on application,
and reap the full measure of economy always
to be found in
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ FAMOUS LOW PRICES.
Consult our Illustrated
Price Lists for anything
you want. Write for copies,
posted free on request.
No. 305. —Madapoiam Chemise,
inserted and trimmed Torchon
Lace, 3/3.
I
No. 652 —Combinations in Madapolam,
trimmed Imitation Torchon Lace
Beading and Ribbon, 4/6.
TERMS:
SPOT CASH ,
U— I
No. 35u.—Nightdress in Madapolam,
Trimmed Imitation Torchon Lace
and Ribbons, 6/-
No. 400.—Nainsook Nightdress,
trimmed with Valenciennes Lace,
Insertion and Tucks, 5/11.
m
No. 177 —Nightdress in Nainsook, trimmed
Real Torchon, Swiss Insertion, Beading, and
Ribbons, 12/-
No. soo—Nightdress in Madapolam, trimmed Torchon
Lace, Insertion and Ribbons. Women’s, 4/3 ;
0.5., 5/-
No. 206.—Nightdress in Madapolam, trimmed
Embroidery and Beading, Insertion and Ribbons.
Women’s, 10/6 ; 0.5., 11/.
m
VlUlddull
*r
T i;
No. 122. —Chemise in Nainsook, Trimmed
Valenciennes Lace and Ribbons, 2/9.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau.
Full Particulars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Climate Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Crown Land suitable for Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on
Better" Terms than elsewhere in Australia.
Corner of Queen and
George Streets, Brisbane.
T. C. TROEDSON,
General Director.
Sydney Branch Office at 116 Pitt Street. —Local Director: A. MESTON.
ZEISS
FIELD GLASSES
WITH ENHANCED STEREOSCOPIC EFFECT.
For:
ARMY.
MARINE.
TRAVEL.
SPORT.
STALKING.
Features:
Brilliant
Definition.
Extensive Field.
Great Light
Intensity.
Mechanical
Precision.
Stability.
Tropic Proof.
With
separate eyepiece
focussing.
X 8 £8 15 0
Xl2—£l2 10 0
NEW MODELS
OF ALL
OPTICIANS AT
AUSTRALASIAN
PRICES.
With
central focussing
mechanism. {
X6.—£9 0 0
XB—£9 15 0
Underwear
MARK
Elade in
England
trade
MAR K
The “BIRD MARK” on your Underwear
is a guarantee that the garments are made from
the finest Australian Lambswool and Cotton,
and in some qualities Silk is added.
The garments also have patented improve-
ments and fit the figure perfectly.
The most perfect underwear for hot weather
is the “BIRD MARK” Merino and Sill-
Underwear, it will stand hard wear yet light in
weight.
Sold by all Drapers and Outfitters.
Wholesale only ;
I. & R. MORLEY and UEO. BRETTLE & CO.,
London, E.C
Ask for THE ‘BIRD MARK ’ ME INO UNDERWEAR
AUSTRAL AERATED WATER Machines
m
There are ten times as, many Austral Aerated
Water Machines in use to-day as any other make.
The Austral Machine is used by all the leading
Hospitals in both Sydney and Melbourne.
Being manufactured here, duplicate parts can
be obtained without delay.
From 250 to 300 dozen of superior quality
Aerated Waters can be made daily with these
machines.
All machines are fitted with the turnover
syruping rack.
Our latest machine is a distinct advance in con-
struction and usefulness on any other machine on
this market.
Write for illustrated and descriptive catalogue.
Manufacturers :
ECKERSLEY & SONS,
3 Bond Street,
SYDNEY.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849.
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONET TO LEND
On Security ot Freehold or Leasehold
City or Suburban Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand iJBF~ AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors The Hon. A. W. Meeir*, M.L.C., Chairman : Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman : Benjamin
Short Esq.: The Hon. Janigs Burns. M.L.C. : The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.; The Hon. F.E. Winchcombe, M.L.C.;
Adrian Knox E=q.. K.C. General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece. F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. H. W. APPERLY, Secretary.
HEARNE’S
Bronchitis Cure
f
The Grandest Kennedy in the World for
COUGHS & COLDS
ONE DOSE IS GENERALLY SUFFICIENT.
THOSE who have taken this medicine are amazed at
its splendid healing power. Sufferers from Bron-
chitis, Cough, Croup, Asthma, Hoarseness, Difficulty
of Breathing, Pain or Soreness in the Chest, experience
delightflil and rapid relief; and to those who are subject
to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a
complete cure. It is most comforting in allaying Irrita-
tion in the TJiroat and giving Strength to the Voice,
and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become
chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption is
not known where “Coughs” have, on their first appear-
SMALL
SIZE:
2/6
ance, been properly treated with this
medicine. No house should be without
it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose or
two is generally sufficient, and a com-
plete cure is certain.
LARGE
SIZE:
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS and MEDICINE VENDORS, and
W. G. HEARNE&CO., Ltd., Geelong, Vic.
Forwarded to any Address when not obtainable locally.
N-S.W. Branch Office: 522 George Street, Sydney.
Miss
Amy
Willard,
who gives this
CLEMENTS
TONIC
testimony,
m
is well known to Sydney and Melbourne audiences as one of the
leads of the Willoughby Comedy Co. (Meynell & Gunn’s attrac-
tions). She writes to ailing women thus
“CLEHENTS TONIC LTD.
“On account of Clements Tonic being used largely by the theatrical
as well as other professions, and through its being highly recommended
to me by one of the leading actors upon the Australian stage, I secured
and used it for several weeks. I was more than gratified, as the result
was a general improvement in soundness of nerve, natural and keen
appetite, sweet refreshing sleep, which was all the more welcome because,
often through continuous study, I suffered from insomnia and broken rest.
“To women, especially those weak-nerved, run-down in health,
anaemic, with poor appetite and geneial decline of physical strength, I
consider Clements Tonic a valuable medicine, for it gives appetite and
natural sleep, and is creative of sound and permanent health.
“(Signed) AMY WILLARD.”
The testimony above is simply a message to women in ill-health that Clements Tonic is a reliever of many of
the ills from which they suffer, If used Deriodically, it keeps the system in order and makes Sick or Nervous
Headache, Insomnia or Broken Rest, Poor Appetite, Weakness, Morbidness, Biliousness, Sluggish Liver and
Constipation things of the past. This is gratifying, for who does not weary of the pain that produces
melancholy, the suffering that creates despair—often penalties of neglect of natural needs of the body, the
refusal to keep the stomach healthy, the nerves strong, the heart sound, and the blood pure by the use of
this unquestionably splendid medicine. The medicine that gives health, gives life—and that medicine is
Clements Tonic. Get it, and get well. Every household should have it.
All Chemists and Stores sell it in the Commonwealth.


A Tonic free from
Alcohol
Are you pale, weak, easily tired,
and do you lack nerve power?
Ask your doctor if Ayer’s Sar-
saparilla would not be good for
you. He knows, and will ad-
vise you wisely. Not a drop of
alcohol in this medicine. . It
puts red corpuscles into the
blood, gives steady, even power
to the nerves; and all without
stimulation. Make no mistake.
Take only those medicines the
best doctors endorse. Ask your
own doctor
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co.. Lowell, Maes., U. S. A.
NTJ
PAT
Collison&Co.
PATENTS and TRADE MARKS
obtained in all countries.
483 Collins St., MELBOURNE.
Eagle Chambers, ADELAIDE
Write us for Inventors’ Guide.
Established 1877
YOUR EYES!
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
EYE
OINTMENT.
INSTANT
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
' ' ...
NOTHING
LIKE IT!
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-. Or by post from
Proprietors, 443 Bourke St., Melbourne.
VI
m
7£\
iB||l2w
7/traoe mark lS\\l
I
'V
YOUTHFUL
APPEARANCE
RENEWED.
Dr. B. Allen’s
cvs’n)
Mexican
Walnut Stain
(Registered)
Is a simple Washable Liquid for
Grey Hair. Tints Grey or faded
Hair any Natural Shade desired.
Perfectly safe, pleasant and harm*
less, containing no lead, mercury,
sulphur, silver, etc.
Beware of spurious imitations.
None genuine without the Signa-
ture of —Alfred Ardley.
The American Journal devoted
to Science says :
“Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut Stain
supplies a long-felt want, viz.:-
A natural and perfectly safe Brown
Stain for Grey Hair, giving im-
mediate effect, and permanent.
Obtainable from all Chemists and
Stores.
FOR ALL
BLOOD DISORDERS
Packets, 3d., 6d. and Is
[2a
Grandmother Used
BOIMNINGTONS 1
For over 45 years Bonnington’s Irish Moss
has been the standard cough remedy. Grand-
mother used it, your mother used it, and
you probably use it yourself and give it to
your children.
BONNINGTON’S IRISH MOSS.
There is no medicine like it for breaking up coughs and colds, healing inflam-
mation in the bronchial tubes and preventing serious lung troubles.
REFUSE SUBSTITUTES —get what you ask for, and ask for
Bonnington’s Irish Moss —there is no remedy “just as good.” [3
HEALTHFULc
ECONOMICAL.
CONVENIENT,
BICKFORD'S Essence of Coffee,
** OUR. JACK" Brand,
Obtainable Everywhere.
Fulfils the requirements of the “ PURE FOODS" Act.
100 CUPS FOR 1/6.
A. M. BICKFORD & SONS, LTD., Pitt St., Sydney; Currie St., Adelaide; Elizabeth St.. Melbourne.
TORTURING VARICOSE VEINS CUBED !
Marly old stubborn cases, even where ulcers of 20 years’ standing were present, have been cured in a
few weeks—the worst eases responding as readily as those only recently developed. If you are a sufferer
you should obtain full particulars of this wonderful remedy.
THE. VECSEY METHOD OF TREATMENT
quickly stops the pain, and subdues the existing inflammation. Its continued application eradicates the
nccunmlatian that distends the veins, and restores the valves and walls to their original healthy state.
Until iOOS a rational cure
for Varicose Veins was con-
sidered an impossibility.
Recourse was always had
to the surgeon’s knife,
which gave only temporary,
and even then painful re-
lief.
We have discovered a
method of treatment, by
which the very worst cases
of Varicose Veins can be
rapidly and permanently
cured. In fact, so wonder-
ful is the method, that
inside the first three days
every bit of the agonising
pain that nearly drives you
mad will be drawn out,
and the ultimate gradual
contraction of the distend-
ing vein, and its restoration
to a normal state, is a
matter only of a few weeks’
continuous treatment.
FREE BOOK.
MR. G. VECSEY,
who discovered and perfected the Vecsey
Method of treating Varicose Veins.
To sufferers from Vari-
cose Veins the Vecsey
Method of Treatment comes
as a great boon. Previous
to its discovery no pain-
less permanent palliative
was known. It cures the
veins absolutely, so that
they do not return.
Let us send you copies
of many letters from
grateful, cured patients—
from men and women
who had, before coming
to us, given up all hope
of ever securing relief,
anil considered a cure
absolutely out of the
question. To-day they
are strong and well, happy
and free from the old
trouble for all time.
ADVICE FREE.
If you suffer from Varicose Veins or a Bad Ley, write, enclosing 2d. stamp, for full particulars and
our free book, which fully describes the treatment. Call, if convenient, for free consultation and a per-
sonal explanation of the treatment. Hours : 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. daily. Other times by appointment.
THE VECSEY VARIX-ARIUM,
104
LINDEN COURT, SYDNEY
(corner Market & Oasiilere.ifrh Streets).
[1824
f IDEAL FOOD
for children from birth is
Horlick’s Malted Milk
It contains all the necessary constit-
uents in their proper proportions.
It contains no Starch, and is therefore
suitable for infants from birth.
It forms bone, nerve and muscle.
It is all food and no waste.
It is pure and free from bacteria.
It is easily and thoroughly assimilated.
Beware of Infant Poods containing 1 Starch.
No Cooking. No added Milk.
Of all Chemists, Wholesale &• Retail Stores.
Samples: 82 PITT ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Horlick’s Malted Milk Co., Slough, Eng.
RUPTURE
Do you suffer from this complaint? No
doubt you wish to becured without operation.
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
trusses ? Then send for our little book,
giving a full description of our
AUTOMATIC
Air Cushion Appliance
by means of which a permanent cure can be
effected. We positively affirm this in spite ol
the many previous disappointments you may
have had. This appliance is something en-
tirely new —is in fact the Best Rupture
Appliance of the Century, and to
prove this to you
WE GIVE YOU TWO DAYS TRIAL
with each appliance that we Bend out. Perfect
comfort and ease from the first day’® use. No
steel bands to torture or gailirig pads or
leather chafing understraps. The pad is made
of soft pliable rubber, which presses gently
but firmly on the correct spot.
Tull Particulars Posted Free
WINSLOW CO.,
261 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
THROW DOWN THE BOTTLE.
Cease being a curse in your home and a nuisance to
■your friends. The Devil of Drink can be banished
for ever by DR. SHAW’S ANTI-ALCOHOL (Registered
by the Govts. Vic. and N.S.W.). A harmless remedy
—can be given secretly or taken voluntarily. Advice
Free. Write or call. DR. SHAW’S ESTABLISH-
MENTS : 54 Russell Street, Melbourne; 1161 Hay
Street, Perth, W.A. [3
f
STRIKING EXPERIMENTS
AT THE REQUEST OF THE
LOCAL GOVERNMENT BOARD FOR IRELAND.
The remarkable feeding
experiments conducted in
the School of Physiology,
Trinity College, Dublin, at
the request of the Local
Government Board for
Ireland, prove that
BOVRIL
when added to % fixed
diet, has a body-building
effect equal to from 10 to
20 times the weight of
the Bovril taken.
DETAILS OF THESE EXPERIMENTS CAN
BE HAD UPON APPLICATION.
MILNERS’ SAFES
have the Largest Sale in the World.
SYDNEY :.John Keep & Sons, Ltd., Clarence St.
MELBOURNE : Briscoe* Co., Ltd., Lit. OollinsSt.
BRISBANE : Webster & Co., Ltd., Mary St.
PERTH : McLean Bros. & Rigg.
Aus. Rep.—T. Nicholls, c/o Sydney Agents.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Dead Folk.
The dead folk live in decent rows;
Their houses all are neat;
But through their doorways no one goes
With dull or dancing feet.
The dead folk are a harmless host:
I have not ever seen
One single, cautious, moon-gray ghost
Slip o’er the shadowy green.
I doubt if they are ever glad
Or sorry ; though indeed
It often makes me very sad
To think they give no heed.
But in a few years, more or less,
I shall not care at all
How many people peer and guess
Above the churchyard wall.
And when they step about my house,
And read my door-plate—why,
I shall be quiet as a mouse,
No matter how they cry.
Or, if too long ago I went
Down yonder, for their tears—
I do not think I shall resent
The silence of the years.
My body is a curious thing;
My soul’s not half so strange,
Who may go forth on gleaming wing
And take no touch of change.
But that my body should lie still,
And never dance or run,
And never climb a crooked hill —
And never see the sun
This is a strange, strange thing to me;
And stranger yet it grows
Each time I stop a while, to see
The dead in decent rows.
N.S.W.
MONARO.
Port.
We’re back again from laboring upon the crimson
sea;
We bring the old Calabria—the tramp-ship finds
the quay !
We’re back from hauling timber-stuff from Geeves-
tqn to Pukow—
A-toiling round the universe with sleepers for the
Chow !
We took the road three months agone, and—
freighted to the sills—-
We dragged the blue gum timber stuff that grew
on Tassy’s hills !
We’re back ! We’re steaming home again ! The
lights of Hobart town—
They see us leap exultantly—and anchor rattles
down !
The Chow, he builds his railway lines beside the
Yellow Sea;
And we with raw materials have hustled from the
Quay!
Two million feet of sleeper : stuff we’ve dragged
around the earth—
Have yakkered long and thirstily in days of
drought and dearth.
Our cargo toted carefully, our goods delivered all,
We’re heading back to Hobart town—Lord, hear
old Hobart call!
We bring the old Calabria —her sides are blistered
brown;
The tramp-ship stumbles south again—her anchor
rumbles down !
A man’s a cheerful animal who toils upon the sea ;
But aye his thoughts go wandering to girls upon
the quay !
He takes the tramp-ship heftily with sleepers for
the Chow ;
He brings her back to port again—and who’s to
blame him now?
He’s labored long and lustily, has earned his bit
of pay, ~
And every sailor has his spree and every dog his
day. -
The parson-coves all mournfully may prate of
Cross and Crown;
But Man loves mundane revelry—the anchor
clatters down!
The world is won by mariners who graft upon the
sea; „
The woof and warp of Industry they weave from
quay to quay !
With steam and grease and shifting-wrench they
push the cargoes through—
The wool that clothes the Britisher, the gold that
pays the Jew !
The timber mills a-thundering beside the Huon
stream —
They need the sinful sailor-man who steers the
tanks of steam ! ~
The world without its sailor-folk would curse and
darkly frown;
All hail to sinful mariners—the anchor tumbles
down !
Were driving back to Port again, across the scarlet
sea;
The Hobart girls are waiting us upon the Derwent
"> quay I y
The Geeveston mills they freighted us with timber
for Pukow ;
But now we're punching home again—we've left the
hated Chow.
It's beer and girls and merriment, each fireman
and A.B. ;
We've earned our hour of revelry—have paid the
Devil's fee.
We're back! We’re stamping home again! Red
lights of Hobart town ,
Ye see us leap in joyfulness—the anchor scrambles
down l
VICTORIA.
GRANT HERVEY.


Combination Couch and Bed.
CHANGED INSTANTLY
Size when open, 4ft. x 6ft. 7in.
■* * * « * ■» •. • .n~ tv?
*'« v > *«• *.> n *
•V l. V- •*• A V n
CLOSED AS COUCH.
Si
OPEN AS DOUBLE BED.
Cannot get out of order; Is
exceptionally strong and durable.
Just the thing for offices,
small rooms, or where an extra
bed is required.
Invaluable for hotels, boarding-
houses, coffee palaces, and similar
establishments.
Can be had fitted with box, to
act as linen press. Three pieces
of furniture in one.
Elegantly upholstered.
PRICES:
In Cretonne, £4 4s. ; in
Tapestry or American Leather,
£4 15s. • in Rexine, £5 ss. and
£5 15s. With Box, 20s. extra.
Can only be obtained from
MARCUS CLARK & Co. Ltd
SYDNEY.
Cheap Edition of “ON THE HOP!”
Price
2/6.
Postage 7d.
THE BULLETIN Office, 214 George Street, Sydney.
Dwyer’s High-Grade
Vehicles
are a Delight to the Eye
and a Pleasure to ride in.
Awarded Over
600 First Prizes.
Factories
CROWN STREET, WOLLONGONG.
. 144-6 XING STREET, NEWTOWN, SYDNEY.
The Goldfields Diamond Drilling Co., Ltd.
339 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
79 Pitt Btreet, SYDNEY.
Boulder Road, KALCOORLIE, W.A.
Diamond Drilling and Water Boring Contractors.
Sole Manufacturers of The Victoria Percussion Drill. Agents for THE SULLIVAN MACHINERY
CO.’S Diamond Drills, Air Compressors, Rock and Air Hammer Drills.
Drill Carbons and Spares for Diamond Drills stocked. Full particulars and prices on application.
AIR-CAS MACHINES.
BRANDT’S ATMOSLITE
for Lighting Houses.
SEND FOR CATALOGUE.
BRANDT BROS.,
Lamp
House,
Elizabeth Street, Melbourne
and Pitt Street, Sydney.
HCH HUCED QUALTTY
Model “T” Touring Car, 4-cyl., 20-h.p., 5-passenger, £270 (fail equipment included).
“FORDS” are without doubt the most suitable cars for Australian
conditions, and the following features will be at once recognised by
the man from the country as being absolute essentials
1. Extra High Clearance.
2. Eight Weight.
3. Plenty of Power (20-h.p.)
4. Easy on Tyres.
5. Cheapness of Maintenance.
6. Extreme Simplicity.
7. Vanadium Steel.
8. Cost (£3lO complete).
9. Interchangeable Parts.
10. Reliability.
A large, full and complete set of SPARE PARTS is always kept in stock
in Sydney, which enables us to send by return mail any spare part required.
WRITE TO DEPT. B.
FORD MOTORS, 133-137 Castiereagh St., Sydney.
ABDVLLA
CIGARETTES .
“Troubles come not In single Spies,
but in Battalions.”
ABDULLA CIGARETTES
are sold in hundreds, so the troubles
are easily conquered.
MTY&C9LT?
WHOLESALE AGENTS c OR
AUSTRALIA.
M
h
¥
®
m
J4925—15ct. Gold, Pearl and Blue Tour-
maline set Pendant, £2/2/-
sfia
Gl6Bo—Pearl and Tur-
quoise set, 15et. Gold
Pendant, 70/-
C4l7B—lsct. Gold (Palm Leaf) Brooch
Pendant, set with Pink and Green
Tourmalines and Pine White Pearls,
£7/10/»
Fullest Value —Finest Quality.
The purchasing power of ten large establishments is greater than
that of one. There are ten large Stewart Dawson establishments in
different parts of the world, the buying for which is controlled in
London. When you come to compare our prices with other prices,
carefully keeping in mind the quality and merit of design, the inevitable
conclusion you arrive at is the superiority in value and quality of all
“Treasure House” goods. Send for our Illustrated Catalogue.
J4l8 —Fine Diamond,
Pearl and 01 i v i n e
Pendant, £lB/10/-
J 3231 —9ct. Gold Pen-
dant, set Amethyst,
Green Tourmalines
and Pearls, 25/-
H 2079 —9ct. Gold Plain Band Bangle, £1 7 S.
from 21/- to 40/-
OtherB
The “ Britannic ” Expandin'; Watch Bracelet, 9ct. Gold, with
fine Lever Movement, £B/10/- 15ct. Gold ditto, £l2/10/-
’ 15ct. Gold, Pearl set, £lB/10/-
CsBBl—lsct. Gold and Turquoise set Bangle, £6/15/-
Ditto, 9ct. Gold, £5.
Stewart Dawson 8 Co.
(Australia),
Ltd.,
Strand Corner, 412 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
J46B3—Oct. Gold, Pearl and Amethyst set
Necklet, £2/10/*
J299s—Fine Aquamarine
and Pearl set, 15ct. Gold
Pendant, £3/10/-


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 32.—N0. 1619.
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 1911.
Prick 6d.
MARRYING HIM TO THE WRONG WOMAN.
A remarkable incident occurred at a wedding ceremony in Ballarat on Wednesday afternoon. The celebrant mistook an elder lady who was present for-the bride,and put
the usual questions to her instead of. to the other. When the ring was about to be placed on her finger the bridegroom, observing the bride agitation said, "What is the matter,
my girl? Don’t you feel well?” and the bride timorously replied, “I think there must be some mistake.” Well, who is really marrying this man?" asked the clergyman.
“Please, sir, I am!” responded the youthful bride. —Daily Paper.
Mr. Wade started his campaign against the Referendum proposals last night. —Daily Paper.
THE BRIDEGROOM : “Here, what’s your game? That sour hobble-skirt isn’t the girl I’m marrying—it’s the other one.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia lor the White Man.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod. of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper 00., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co.. 214 George-street North,
Sydney. N.S. Wales. Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES : Business, 1384 Central.
Editorial, 257 City.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Halt-yearly .... ... ... 0 13 6
Quarterly' ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to Tim Bulletin Office. Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have. Tim Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Coinmniiications
tobeaddressed to William Maclhod, Managing Director.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to Tim Bulletin would oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. 'To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for “copy." Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence ” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
twi columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Betters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications ivill be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
Tim Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. Tim Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to Tiie Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., airy picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under ivhich
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
The Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on account
of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale agents) to
Victoria, West Australia, Queensland, Tasmania, and
New Zealand ; and on account of Messrs. Atkinson and
Co. and Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide —at U/6 per doz. nett.
Copies of Tim Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High Ilolborn, London, W.C.
South Africa. —The Central Neivs Agency’, Capetown;
Daivson and Son, Capetown ; The Central News Agency,
Durban, Natal; and others.
Vancouver.— Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouvei, 8.C.;
Irvine and Forsyth, Uhl Hastings Street; Norman,
Caple and Co., Stationers.
U. S. A .—lsserlis A., Seattle, Washington ; International
\ews Agency, Los Angeles ; Chicago Newspaper Agency,
1/0 Madison Street, Chicago.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and Neivs Stores, Port Said.
Uong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder-st., Hong Kong.
Singapore. — Messrs. John Little and Co.
Agents’ Special Notice.
Tim, Bulletin metal advertising plates,size 6§in. x lUin.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 1911.
HIGH RENTS.
One of the matters which the N.S.W. Labor
Conference attempted and then dropped in an
unfinished frame of mind related to the increasing
rents of Sydney and its suburbs. The price of the
big house doesn’t grow very fast even in these
strenuous days, but the demand for small, con-
veniently situated domiciles is now so far ahead of
the supply that rents have become enormous, and
any kind of decayed hutch is thankfully received.
The conference circumnavigated this fact for a
while, and got not much further advanced. It
was proposed, among other things, that the
maximum rent should be fixed by law at per
cent, on the value of the property. That idea
was practically the only one advanced, and
it hardly seems to meet the case. As re-
gards buildings—considered apart from land-
-74 per cent, doesn’t look enough. There are
rates, repairs, bad debts and occasional periods of
emptiness. Then a house is a perishable secuiity
which requires to have a sinking fund attached to
it. Also the sinking fund requires to be a large
one, for, if a city intends to be progressive and
up-to-date, buildings have to be pulled down
before they are half or quarter worn out, because
they become obsolete or diseased. A well-built
stone or brick edifice should be good for oOU
years in the Australian climate, yet it is often
due to be thrown on the scrap-heap in half or a
quarter of a century. As regards interest on the
value of land, 74 per cent, is more than ample ; in
fact, the owner is quite content with a steady o
per cent. The trouble is that the value of land
keeps going up, and the 5 per cent, represents a
bigger amount each year, and it is impossible to
say when the ascent will stop.
* * * *
Rent is a mere expression of the market value
of the property, and the market value of the pro-
perty is an expression of the intensity ot the
popular desire or need to get on to it. It may
seem strange that in a State like N.S.W., with a
population of about five people to the square mile,
there should be any land worth even £lOO per
foot frontage, but the craving of everybody to
clamber on one spot is so intense that land has
sold at 10 times that figure, and there is every
reason to believe it will soon sell at 20 or 30 times.
A general desire to get on to one spot may be
natural or it may be artificial; but the effect on
rents is the same. It would suit the N.S.W.
merchant, banker, financier, insurance man, ship-
owner, or clerk to be at any one of the
half-dozen first-class ports which the State
possesses if there were people there; but
as the other good ports have no railways,
wharves or facilities of any kind, and there are no
cities on them, it doesn’t pay anybody to go
there. It would suit the N.S.W. artisan to pursue
his calling in any town with decent scenery and
climate ; but a careful manipulation of railway
systems and railway rates has driven almost all
manufacturing industries into Sydney, and made
it practically the only town that will do for him.
The one big city stands for a larger and larger
proportion of the population of the State. I he
desire —in fact, the necessity —for almost every-
body to get to Sydney becomes more and more
intense. Therefore the value of city lands
rises, and rents rise. When a city be-
comes a solid mass of shops, offices,
warehouses, factories, wharves and the like,
then the toilers have two alternatives : They may
live fairly close to their work huddled in huge
gloomy diseased tenement houses, for there is no
room for cottages and gardens in a crowded city ;
or they may live a rather more civilised life in re-
mote suburbs at almost impossible cost and grievous
waste of time in travelling to and Either way
their position grows steadily worse. The tenement
house in the city and the growth of the suburbs
are both evidences of the intense desire of every-
body to get on one spot. They signify that a
much-desired scrap of land is up at auction, and
that the highest bidder arrives first.
* # * *
Rents are going to be higher in Sydney very
shortly—a great deal higher. One reason is the
dragging of the Federal capital to Canberra, so
that as much as possible of its trade may come to
Sydney. Another is the limitation of the Federal
port at Jervis Bay to a mere useless scrap of shore
ending at high-water mark, so as to force more
trade to Sydney. Another is the railway exten-
sion from Bomaderry to Jervis Bay, which has
for its purpose the diversion to Sydney of some
further scraps of the trade which might otherwise
find another outlet. Another is the connection of
Bombala by rail with Sydney instead of with
Twofold Bay. Still another is the semi-
circular deviation of the North Coast line
to prevent it touching Port Stephens, lest
a trading city should arise there instead
of all the business being directed to Syd-
ney. All these things will compress more and
more of the population of N.S.W. into one narrow
area, and make the competition for standing room
on that area more intense, and the alternatives
are that the worker must pay far more rent for the
kind of house he occupies now, or else get a far
inferior house or cellar or hole or dog kennel for
about the same rent. There is no reason to sup-
pose that his income will increase, for a man
doesn’t necessarily get through any more work
in a fixed number of hours in a huge city
than in a village, but his outgoings will be
more. It is just the case of a besieged
city over again. If a town is leaguered by
621,000 soldiers the price of a rat or a fowl or an
ass’s head increases wonderfully. And if it is
surrounded by 621,000 prospective tenants the
price of a house does the same. For years and
years a large section of the tenants of the N.S.W.
capital supported parochialists like Holman and
McGowen, and the landlords supported parochial-
ists like Wade, whose great idea was to bring
everything, including the Federal capital, to the
one big city of the State, or as near it as possible.
The landlords are getting their reward ; they col-
lect larger rents. The tenants are getting their
reward ; their political leaders sold themselves to
do the dirty work of parish-minded Toryism, and
they pay larger rents.
* * * *
Put in the fewest possible words, this is the
cause of the trouble :
Population.
Sydney and suburbs 4170 people per square mile
Best of N.S.W. .. 3 „
And this insane disproportion is being carefully
made worse instead of better. It doesn’t neces-
sarily improve the toiler’s pay to be qne in a city
of 500,000 workers instead of one in a city of
50,000, though it certainly makes him pay twice
or three times as much for a decent cottage and
garden, or else it gives him an attic at the price
for which he used to get a cottage and garden.
But Greater Sydney, with 4170 persons to the
square mile, hasn’t really struck the trouble yet,
bad as it considers its case to be. There are cities
in England with about 41,000 persons to the mile,
and small congested localities with 100,000. If
the congestion policy is maintained, the Sydney
worker may expect before long to pay perhaps
four times the rent he does now, or to be driven
to do with four times less accommodation in a
sky-scraping ant-heap, or to live many miles
further away from his work, which only means
substituting railway fares for extra rental. A
great deal may be done by building city
railways, suburban railways, overhead railways,
underground railways, harbor bridges, harbor
tunnels, and other conveniences to bring the
worker in from remote suburbs to his place
of employment. But, on the other hand,
many of these things take up room, and that
shoves the residential suburbs further back and
further out. And the struggle for accommodation
in the nearer suburbs is thus intensified.
* * * *
A great deal has been said about State-owned
or municipally-owned workmen’s dwellings as a
remedy for tlie evil. It is a partial remedy, and
that is all. The State can’t put more than 640
acres into a square mile, or more than 4840
square yards into an acre. It can’t put six gar-
dens on top of one another. And if congestion
drives the worker to live 10 miles from his work
the State can’t prevent there being 1760 yards in
each mile. The State or the municipality has
tackled the difficulty in many places, and the
only remedy it has found has been the building of
gigantic tenement houses and the heaping of five
or six tiers of inhabitants one above the other. It
is tackling the problem now in the Rocks district
of Sydney, and the only scheme it has devised
there is the same old accursed tenement house
wherein one individual sits on the head of
another, and the children have the com-
mon stairs, or the common yard, or the street
for their only playground. The intentions of the
State or municipal builders are most praiseworthy,
but they cau’t, by mere building, diminish tbe
struggle for a domicile on the inner circle of things
close to the place where the congested region of
employment lies. And they can’t make enough
accommodation in the inner circle for all the
workers who want to get there. The supply
being unequal to the demand, Private Enterprise
gives the preference to those who will pay the
highest rent. If State or Muncipal Enterprise
charges low rents, then the preference usually
goes to those who vote a certain ticket, or belong
to . certain sect, or grease the palm of
some uncertain Jack-in-office. And if State
or Municipal Enterprise avoids these evils,
the alternative is to let its dwellings on the old
competitive system. In that case the profits go
to the community, which is a material advantage.
But the individual worker pays the same old rent,
and his children have still the common stair and
the common yard and the public gutter for a play-
ground, and they still grow up ignorant of the
flowers and the green grass and the joys of life.
* * * *
If there were any imperative reason why one
county of N.S.W. should contain half the popula-
tion of the State, and why one district should be
1400 times more crowded than the rest of the
State, the high-rent problem might be viewed in a
philosophical spirit. If, for instance, Sydney
was the State’s only possible port and the County
of Cumberland its only fertile area, the position
would be understandable. But Sydney is only
one among a number of ports, and the County of
Cumberland is, on the whole, a rather barren
spot. The big metropolis beside Port Jackson,
the capital of a State with a population of about
five people to the square mile, is bigger than the
principal cities of Holland (population 460 to _the
square mile), Belgium (649 per square mile), Nor-
way (19), Roumania (133), Denmark (170), Saxony
(778), Bavaria (222), Sweden (31), or Italy (309);
and many other cases could be quoted. A place
which deliberately congests like that is crying
out for high rents —especially high rents for its
working classes. And if there is a clean, healthy
remedy for the trouble while the congestion is
maintained, it is a remedy that has persistently
dodged the investigator up till now.
THE OUT-OF-DATE GALLOWS AND THE
SUPERANNUATED RACK.
According to a cable message of a few days back,
the British Home Office “ attributes the steady
increase in criminality during the past decade, in
England and Wales, to the growth of compassion
for criminals, mitigation of prison discipline, and
a relaxation of public sentiment regarding crime.”
And in this country Judges have been driven
repeatedly, of late, to deplore the acquittal of per-
sons who, in their view, should have been con-
victed. It is a notorious fact that, here and
abroad, the accused who escapes scot-free, regard-
less of the weight of evidence against him, is the
accused who appears before a Judge with a repu-
tation for harsh sentences; and that notorious
fact should suggest things to the thinking citizen.
The explanation of it is that the world has pro-
gressed vastly in a social and intellectual manner
of speaking, while the British Criminal Law has
stayed pretty much where it was half a century
a *°- .
Fifty years back you might find the same
old cliches concerning the “mawkish sen-
timentality” of not hanging people for theft
in the same old sheets which yap to-day about
the “ weak folly ” of those who oppose hanging
for all or any of the 10 offences for which it is still
imposed in N. S. Wales. Half a century ago the
pro-gore papers voiced the general sentiment.
The bulk of the community was illiterate. The
type of white who is, educationally speaking, on
a level with aborigines and such-like, suffers from
the same forms of arrested development which
afflict nig;gers. He lacks, for example, the sort of
imagination which revolts at the thought of a
fellow-creature’s neck being carefully broken, in
cold blood, by a hired slayer. Being ignorant
of history, he does not know that all through
the ages crime has tended to increase where
sentences were savage, and to decrease where they
were reasonable. Accordingly, he does not
trouble much about whom he passes on to the
scaffold. The present-day white is hardly ever
that sort of person ; wherefore he is liable to find
himself in a hideous dilemma when he gets on a
criminal jury. He is pledged to the State to
bring in a verdict on the evidence; on the other
hand, as a result of the education which the State
has forced on him, he appreciates fully all the
consequences of his verdict. His outlook is about
17 miles wider and 44 times more diversified than
that of his old-time predecessor. Hence, when
the average juror in a capital case has
weighed the possibilities of witnesses being mis-
taken or perjured, and has reminded himself that
apologies and remorse are no use to one
who jbas been executed, and has mentally
conjured up the pinioning and the scene
on the gallows, as depicted by his favor-
ite evening sheet, he finds himself in a
mood to let the prisoner off at any price, almost.
Which he does; and, having bowed beneath the
usual gust of judicial wrath, goes home fairly well
pleased with his effort, inasmuch as he feels that,
even if Justice has possibly been defeated, an
archaic old horror has been averted.
* * * *
Two facts which the Tory press, the last lonely
upholder of the futile chain-gang methods of
crime-prevention, needs to understand are—(l)
that, so long as the present criminal law stands,
Crown prosecutors are going to find it increasingly
hard to secure convictions ; and (2) that no gaol
is pleasant. As to murder cases in particular,
criminals are not slow to recognise the community ’s
growing aversion to hanging. For that reason it
will go hard with the householder of a few years
hence who stumbles on a practised burglar
at- work. Divided between the certainty
of a stiff term for house-breaking and
the likelihood of being discharged scot-free
for murder, the malefactor will probably
hand his interrupter the death-stroke with prompt-
ness and despatch. So far as lesser crimes are
concerned, here in Australia, where we have no
Criminal Appeal Court, juries are bound to go on
straining points in favor of accused persons-—and
straining them to absurd lengths when notoriously
severe Judges are on the bench. Which is mani-
festly to the detriment of the State.
* * * *
The remedy lies in the adjustment of penalties
in criminal cases to the point of view of the
period. Ethically, it may be monstrous for juries
to be influenced in their verdicts by a considera-
tion of the sort of sentence that will probably be
inflicted ; in practice it occurs with the utmost
regularity. Many a Sadistic lunatic is loose on
the community, at the present moment, for no
other reason than that those who weighed the
facts at his trial were given no option between
dooming the accused to the gallows and finding
him guiltless. There is a ghastly finality about the
execution form of punishment; and in a hundred
other ways the modern civilised man finds it intoler-
able. There is no objection to keeping a proved
monomaniac in gaol for life. And the prospect is as
powerful a deterrent as any that could be devised.
For offences which are not now punishable with
death the terms might, in many instances, be re-
duced. Anyhow, and in every case, reforms are
required in the gaol system. In the State of
Michigan (U.S.A.) prisoners are not only taught
trades, as they are supposed to be here, but are
paid the full market price—after the cost of their
board and so on has been deducted—for all work
done by them. Under this arrangement the con-
vict who has dependents is enabled to earn enough
to keep them ; and the unmarried prisoner saves
up against the day of his or her release. The tax-
payers are thus relieved of the burden of supporting
the convict and his empaupered dependents, while
the State has afar better chance than it otherwise
would of acquiring a reformed character. It is a
scheme that might be advantageously introduced
here, contemporaneously with the abolition of
hanging. The ancient penal institutions which
satisfied our fathers have got to go. Public
opinion has them marked for destruction assurely
as it has such anachronisms as sweating in every
form, slum dwellings, and our feckless methods of
guarding the public health.
“BACK TO THE ARMY AGAIN.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
For those who do not desire to make a preliminary in-
spection, this bulletin (No. 2) is issued, and it is intended
to contain sufficient information to enable anyone to
understand the conditions under which he may select a
home in advance of actual settlement, and make arrange-
ments so that on his arrival at that home he can at once
begin productive work.
So runs the last paragraph of the preface to a per-
suasively eloquent booklet issued by direction of
the Government of Victoria to the “people of
Australia, Europe and America.”
* * * *
John William Stoops, formerly a staff-ser-
geant in the Imperial Army Service Corps, read
this booklet in October of last year. He carefully
considered the statements and promises and figures
contained in it, and came to the conclusion that
he was wasting his time in England living on his
pay as an assistant lithographer in the Customs
Department, plus his Imperial Army pension of
Is. lOd. per day. Fortune seemed easy and cer-
tain if only he could obtain a block of irrigated land
in Victoria. He worked out the figures contained
in the booklet, and discovered that if he com-
muted lOd. a day of his pension into capital he
would have enough to transport himself and his
wife to Australia and set up as a farmer. For 18J
years he had been in the army; but he was a
farmer’s son and felt no fears about the success of
the experiment. Besides, the booklet announced
—“Experts in all branches of agriculture
horticulture are employed by the State. They
assist and instruct settlers in approved methods
of production.” ,
But the ex-sergeant wanted to “select a home
in advance.” So he obtained more booklets,
and a profusely illustrated pamphlet with a
jaunty green cover helped him to make up his
mind. “The Irrigated Areas” was the title of
the pamphlet. It told the seeker after informa-
tion that “ there is no dead time of the year.
Some crops may be planted and harvested every
month.” Also, the pamphlet declared that
“ settlers from a distance may come to Victoria
in entire confidence that they will find conditions
as represented, and that every promise will be
carried out.” The burden of the story told in
the pamphlet was that Rochester irrigation area
was the garden of Victoria. It contained in
italics the statement —“ Thirty thousand addi-
tional people are needed to utilise the sur-
plus water now available.” It said that
the principal areas were in the Rochester
and Cohuna districts. It described the
channels and the distributory system to be
adopted. Certainly this part of the booklet was
written in the future tense; but it would be a
very careful reader indeed who would notice that,
and deduce from it that the Rochester lands were
not yet available and would not be available for
months.
* * * *
John William Stoops, late staff-sergeant of
the Imperial Army Service Corps, was not a care-
ful enough reader apparently, for he, like many
other new settlers who had come to Victoria, de-
cided that Rochester was the one place in Victoria
where he would settle. He talked to his wife
about it, and they built up romantic futures
for themselves in the new country. Stoops
resigned from the Customs, and persuaded
the Pension Commissioners at Chelsea to commute
lOd. a day of his Is. lOd. into £l7O cash. Of this
the Commissioners gave Stoops £SO and paid £l2O
over to the Agent-General for use in the new
country. Stoops booked passages for himself and
his wife in the Zieten, and arrived in Australia
with about £l3O of capitalon December 12. Stoops
declares that he told the London officials that
he was coming out to settle at Rochester, that the
Chelsea Commissioners knew it, that the Agent-
General knew it, and that never from first to last
did he hear one word to indicate that the Roches-
ter lands were not available. He did not
know that, after the italicised announce-
ment contained in all the pamphlets, “ Thirty
thousand people needed immediately,” there
should have been read “ after March, 1911 .’
Yet that was so. Mr. Elwood Mead
and Lands Minister McKenzie had warned
settlers not to come out until after March, 1911.
But Stoops knew nothing about it until he arrived
here. Then officials scoffed at his ignorance.
They told him loftily that everybody knew it;
and when he quoted the misleading pamphlet,
they triumphantly pointed out to him the
“ wills ” and the “shalls ” and the “woulds” in
it, and said. 'There y’are,’ ‘will be’ —meaning after
March, 1911.”
-K * * *
Of course there was other land available at
Swan Hill and Cohuna, and to the officials
it seemed ridiculous and annoying that
Stoops would not take up a block at either
of these places. But he had literally lived
on the pamphlets about Rochester. He had all
the figures and all the information about Rochester
at his finger tips. He felt he had known the dis-
trict for years. Swan Hill and Cohuna were
mere names to him. So the officials said he was
pig-headed. But ex-Staff-Sergeant Stoops per-
sisted in wanting Rochester land.
* * * *
One of his first acts on arriving in Victoria was to
go to Rochester and inspect the district. He chose
three blocks, one of which he wanted. But, though
he spent days and days worrying the officials,
he got no further forward. The inquiry clerk re-
ferred him to the second immigration officer.
The second immigration officer listened, and
referred him to the chief immigration officer. He
said “Ha!” listened for a while, and then said,
“This is a case for the secretary.” So Stoops
climbed several flights of stairs, and started his
tale afresh to the secretary. The secretary listened
for a while; then said, “Oh, this is Lands. You
must see Captain Jenkins, the secretary of the
Land Purchase Board.” Stoops swallowed hard,
climbed a few more stairs, and saw the Captain.
He heard part of the story, and then sought to
prove to Stoops that he did not know what he


wanted. “ Don’t know what I want, sir ? cried
Stoops. “ Begging your pardon, sir, Ive only
■wanted one thing since I left England three
months ago. I want a block of land at Roches-
ter.” The Captain gazed at him sadly. “I m
afraid you’re a pigheaded man, Mr. Stoops, he
said, politely, and passed him on to chairman
Kennedy. He talked to Stoops. Nothing could be
done, and Stoops’s castle in Rochester melted into
thin air.
* * * *
John William Stoops had been soldiering for
18J years. He refused to be beaten. He impor-
tuned the officials until at last they let him pay
£2O deposit on a block, which was to be ready “next
month.” “Next month” was “March, 1911"’;
but it sounded nearer. In the meantime he had
to live as best he could. There were the irrigation
channels, where he could turn navvy for Bs. a day.
He was not good at navvying. Ex-non-coms,
rarely are. So he worked as a carpenter for a
fortnight, and then a falling ladder injured him so
badly that was invalided back to Melbourne.
The officials at the Immigration Bureau were
tired of worrying over a man who had come
12,000 miles to settle at Rochester and refused to
be beguiled into going 50 miles further to Swan
Hill.
* * * *
All this time Stoops had to keep himself
and his wife. Their meagre capital had shrunk
every week.
„ • « *
At last Stoops saw plainly that, unless some-
thing happened, his resources would be so depleted
by the time March came that his chances of suc-
cess on the land would be very small indeed. It
had come to the last resort. He marched
out to the Barracks and called at the Army
Service Corps Office. “ Back to the army
again, Sergeant. Back to the army again! ”
It received him with joy. It used to have a ser-
geant-major ; but he went out with “three rounds
blank” a few monthsago, and since then the A.S.C.
(Vic.) had been wandering in a circle. Ex-Ser-
treant John William Stoops knows all there is to
know about Army Service Corps work. He was
at once forwarded on to the “authorities,” who,
knowing the needs of the A.S.C., told Stoops to
sign an application for appointment to the In-
structional Staff.
* * * *
Stoops is a lucky man to have found a place
where he was wanted.
ZIELEN.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Holman and the Daniel He Called to
Judgment.
States Frights Holman, anti-nationalist and
Attorney-General in the N.S.W. Cabinet, in an
interview published last week, explained that he
intends to hang on to the highly-paid job which
fell to his lot when a Labor Cabinet was formed,
and to solace his wounded parish-pump feelings
with a poultice of bank notes. In defending liis
position, Holman quoted Justice Higgins, of the
High Court (then Mr. Higgins), as an advocate
of McGowen’s— and presumably Holman’s—
attempt, made in 1898, to give an individual State
supreme power in certain cases over the Common-
wealth. On that occasion McGowen moved*:—
That where a proposed alteration has been affirmed, in
two succeeding sessions by an absolute majority ih'one
House, but rejected by the other, such proposed altera-
tion should be submitted to the national referendunp
Provided that, respecting proposed alterations trans-
ferring to the Commonwealth any of the powers retained
by the several States at the date of their acceptance of
the Constitution, such alteration should not take effect in
any State unless approved by a majority of electors in
such State voting.
Discussing that amendment, which was defeated,
Higgins, according to Holman, was shocked that
“one Federal House, with the approval of an
ordinary majority of the voters and of a majority
of the States, might drag into the Federal arena
matters which the States now deliberately resolve
to leave to their local Parliaments—matters such
as the land laws, the education laws, the local
government laws, the factory laws, the railway
systems.” Higgins, as plain Mister, was ap-
parently a different person from Higgins, Justice
of the Federal High Court, with experience of the
frequent futility of the hobbled Constitution of
Australia, and with the shrill of State insects deaf-
ening bis ears ; for, in a lecture on “ Some Recent
Constitutions,” delivered in Sydney in August
last, the eminent jurist gave three silent cheers
for the South African Constitution as compared
with the one which has failed nearly every time
the acid lias been put on it by Fat or State
Frights. Said Justice Higgins :
No such phenomenon is possible as that of holding a
Souch African Act to be invalid as infringing the powers
reserved to the provincial legislature. This certainly
simplifies the problems of legislature very greatly.
Proceeding, he held up the lack of national unity
in Australia as a sort of freak :
For some reasons which I need not now discuss, our
fellow subjects in two other continents and in Maoriland
have thought fit to adopt a system which involves much
closer unity than we have adopted in Australia. It is
curious ; for our people in Australia are remarkably
homogeneous—with common ideals, common language,
common modes of life, common stratification of classes,
common problems ; and it cannot be said that there was
more antagonism between N. S. Wales and Victoria than
between the Provinces of Maoriland, or than between
Upper Canada and Lower Canada, or than between the
Dutch and the English in Africa. In Switzerland, which
has a Federal Constitution, it is said that every new
amendment of the Constitution which is accepted by the
people tends towards unification. In South Africa the
Parliament makes laws on any subject in the interests of
South Africa—even on the subjects which are permitted
to the provincial councils.
Holman enters his protest against the proposed
amendment of the Australian Constitution in the
belief, to use his own words, that, by using the
smaller and more accurate weapons provided by
State activity, the workers can do more to advance
their interests. Higgins, on the other hand,
urges the workers forward in these words :
The ultimate sanity of a free people must be trusted,
or nothing on earth can be trusted. They must always
be allowed to leave the camp fires that have warmed
them for the night, and boldly to fare forth on new
journeying when the trumpet of progress sounds the
reveille.
And it has been no uncommon event, when an
army has risen from its dulled fires to march
towards the dawn, that those suspected of hamper-
ing its movement have been left behind, swinging
where the ants couldn’t reach them, but the crows
could do their worst.
Melbourne “Age” Warns the Workers of
Victoria.
"Liberalism,” as represented by Melbourne
Age, has struck the rather audacious idea of ad vis-
ing Labor to vote "No” against the Labor Govern-
ment for Labor’s sake. Whereas the recognised
Tory press paints the horrors of the New Protec-
tion policy from Fat’s point of view, the Age
sketches the evils that may befall the worker if
he clears the way for the Commonwealth Govern-
ment to overrule State legislation :
It is doubtful whether the Commonwealth would give
us the same advanced legislation that we enjoy in Vic-
toria to-day.. Take the Factories Act, for instance. Our
regulation of employment and the conditions of labor is
the finest in the world. If our factory legislation is
superseded by the Commonwealth Acts it does not follow
that the provisions of the new statutes would be equally
liberal with those of Victoria. Take the Saturday half-holi-
day, for example. Victoria is the only State where, in the
largecqntres of population, all businesses, save a few neces-
sary to'public convenience, are closed from I o’clock on
Saturday' afternoon. If this regulation becomes invalid,
owing to its being overridden by Commonwealth law,
Victorian shop-assistants would suffer a serious depriva-
tion. ... Wages Boards will cease to exist after the pass-
ing of a new Federal Arbitration Act under the powers
conferred by the Referendum. They will have
been superseded by the Arbitration Court, and
while agreements between employers and employed may,
when lodged with the Court, have the weight of Federal
authority, until that is done wage-rates fixed by State
law will cease to prevail. It will be the same with the
half-holiday system. The half-holiday will come within
the purview of the Federal Court, and unless it becomes
an order of the Court, this great privilege of the Vic-
torian shop-assistant will disappear.
Therefore the Age advises all Yictorian workers
who have Wages Boards at the back of them, and
all shop assistants who have Saturday afternoon
football matches looming in front of them, to vote
"No ”in the referendum, lest a Labor Govern-
ment should rob them of the boons and privileges
which “Liberalism” has won. It is a specious
warning; but, like many other things of thin
material, it won’t wash. The suggestion that
Victorian labor has everything to lose and nothing
to gain by the New Protection policy is ab-
surdly transparent. The dullest eye can see
through it; and on the other side of it are
plainly visible the many warning notices in the
Argus to the effect that the Federal Government
is bent on raising wages and shortening the hours
of labor in all directions. Argus predictions of
the horrors in store for Australian wage-payers
are flatly contradictory to the Age suggestions of
the evils which the Federal Labor Government is
prepared to inflict on Victorian wage-earners.
The Tory journal addresses itself to the enemies
of labor legislation, whilst the "Liberal” ditto
shrieks to the friends of labor legislation; and
the watchword of both advisers is "No.” The
humor of their unanimity lies in the fact that the
Age is practically counselling the adherents of
the Argus to vote "Yes,” while the Argus is
practically counselling Labor men to do the same
thing.
Tasmania and the "Unholy Hands.”
Many witnesses —nearly all of them State
Frighters—have been examined by the Commis-
. sion which is inquiring into the claim of Tasmania
for a special grant from the Commonwealth
Treasury. The gist of Tasmania’s trouble is that,
by giving up its old State tariff, it suffered in
various ways a loss of anything between £20,000
and £40,000 a year during the 10 years of the
Commonwealth, wherefore it has had to increase
its local taxation. Further, its manufactures have
decreased owing to the dumping of Victorian and
N.S.W. goods, made in big, well-equipped
factories controlled by wealthy monopolists who
sell at a temporary loss in order to capture the
Tasmanian trade. If it is because it joined the
Federation that Tasmania has had to increase its
local taxation, then it has some claim On the
Commonwealth ; for, though the Federation is
often called a bargain, it was a bargain which
was designed to benefit every party to it. It
certainly wasn’t the Federalists’ idea to enrich
one part of the Commonwealth at the ex-
pense of the other; wherefore the probabilities
having been realised in the case of Westralia,
special consideration actually was given to that
backward State. Under the Constitution, how-
ever, nothing can be claimed now as a matter of
right; and the fact that Tasmania alleges that in-
justice may be done under the Constitution, ought
to prove to Tasmania that the alleged sanctity of
the Constitution is all rubbish, and that the
Murrays and Garlands, and other State Fright
insects who are buzzing about the impiety of
“putting unholy hands” on that document
are talking the same kind of nonsense that Bill
Sikes would talk if he reproached the police for
taking his tools of trade from him. State Frights
ought to make up its mind which yarn it is going
to tell. If the Constitution is a sacred thing,
which mustn’t be “tinkered with,” as the
Tory paper puts it now, then those who
think they suffer from the operation of
the Constitution must put up with their
sufferings; and the Tasmanian who votes "No”
in the referendum will throw his weight into the
scale along with those who are putting forward
that view, and will thus take the most effective
measures he can to prevent any consideration
being given to Tasmania’s claims. " Hands off
the sacred Constitution!” means, so far as the small
Speck is concerned, that the sacred Constitution
can’t do any wrong, and, if it does any wrong,
the wrong can’t be righted. If Tasmania thinks
so, it will, of course, vote " No” in April. But,
in that case, it must drop a claim that is based on
the assumption that the Constitution has done a
wrong, and that the wrong can be righted.
—♦ :
Uncleanliness is Godliness.
“Remember the Sabbath Day to keep it uncom-
fortable!” A select public meeting was held at
South Melbourne last week to discuss the past,
present and future of open bathing on the beach
thereabouts. The chairman said: " On Sunday
night, when thousands of people were at the
bench, only a very few had bathed, proving that
there was a general readiness to respect the Sab-
bath and the feelings of others. They did not
desire the beach-bathing to be of a Continental
Sunday kind.” The night in question was oppress-
ively hot; nevertheless the large majority of
South Melbourne’s open bathers had respected
the Sabbath by denying themselves a dip in the
sea. Six days of the week cleanliness is next
to godliness, and “open bathing” has the appro-
val of “right-thinking persons,” or of some
of them. But the Seventh Day is the Sabbath of
the almighty Wowser, and the person who bathes
in public is as godless as he who slinks into a
hotel by the back door to get a drink. Nobody
knows why this should be, but it is. Our grand-
mother told us so. Nothing very enjoyable to the
flesh is quite permissible on Sunday. Theinimor-
tal soul should steep itself in refreshment and
flounder in the waters of life on that Day of Rest;
but the mortal body must refrain from Continental
pleasures. Even a sun-bath is a luxury to be
avoided, especially if it affects the feelings of
others than the bather. In fact, the feelings of
Brother Wowser, and his step-sister, Mrs.
Grundy, are the tests of godliness. There’s no
disrespect to the Sabbath in bathing in the open
where nobody sees you. God doesn’t object to
that. But if you flaunt your bathing costume
under the gaze of a passing Wowser, you are a
sinner in the sight of the Lord. From which it
appears that the Wowser thinks he is the Lord.
♦
The Manure Pit Gets to the Kitchen.
The Board that is inquiring into Melbourne’s
noxious trades has about reached the conclusion
that what the case calls for is not merely the re-
moval of sundry boiling-downeries and the proper
supervision of abattoirs, but the handing over to
the Board of Health of all matters affecting the
city’s hygiene, with firm instructions to get busy.
One striking illustration of the weakness of
present met hods transpired lately when the Coburg
Council told the Board of Health the way the
local Chow market-gardeners pursue their avoca-
tion, and asked it to do something ; whereupon the
Board sadly replied that such matters were out-
side its scope. Yet the details supplied were
startling. Coburg’s health officer told of the filthy
conditions under which the aggregate Ten Sin of
the district grows his cabbagee, lettucee and spling
callot, and also washes them—foetid pools, gutter
liquid, house drainage and the waste water from
Sin’s weekly wash being the medium in most
cases. Some of the heathen were actually dis-
covered in the act of "cleansing” parsnips in
foul-smelling pools from which bubbles of
foul gas were rising. Of course, the heathen saw
nothing wrong about it at all, that being the
nature of the animal. The average white carrot-
eater, even though he buys from a white man,
cannot be sure that his vegetables haven’t been
grown by a yellow leper under similar conditions;
wherefore it is advisable that someone should do
something. The local council says it has no
power, and, if the Board of Health has not, it
can’t be supplied with a full stock too swiftly.
4
There is news of battle in the atmosphere, and
he who has the ear of prophecy in good repair can
hear the thud of the fallen and the shocking out-
cries of the dead. It is Australia’s old friend and
brilliant ornament, Bruce Smith, who first smelled
the carnage from a long way off, and he smelled it
at Petersham, last week, with Alderman Hoskins
in the chair. There tne language of Smith rushed
foaming down a steep place into the sea to this
effect: “ I am quite satisfied,” he said, “ that if
the Federal Labor party were given full control
of affairs we would soon be on the brink of a civil
war.” And probably Smith hadn’t an idea that
he had made a joke. The Federal Labor party
can’t get "full control of affairs” except by
the support of a majority of the communit}'. It
is possible for a minority to boss the Senate, but
that isn’t “full control” by my means. Being
legally on top, the party would legally pass such
legislation as it thought best. But the tremen-
dously important Smith suggests that his minority
won’t obey these laws; but will turn rebels and
shoot. Later on he describes his prospective rebels
and shooters as “ law-abiding men,” and he
alludes to those who are lawfully in office by the
vote of the popular majority as " buccaneers.” It
is a long time since anybody so funny as Smith
has been around.
Exeter Hall, which governed Papua prior to its
protection by the Commonwealth, has left a lot of
itself in the Coral Sea; and it is the Common-
wealth’s business to see that what is left doesn’t
reinstate itself as an unofficial Government. The
decision to prohibit the employment of Papuans
in the pearl-shell fleet of Torres Straits, firstly
because the labor is wanted for plantations in
Papua, and secondly because the Papuan learns
to drink in the luggers at Thursday Island, is
silly—mere ridiculous Wowserism. The white
Australian —unless he be a very bad white Aus-
tralian, with one eye on Binglii’s girl—does not
supply Binghi with liquor, and it is unlikely
that he does it with the Papuan. The white man
has destroyed the hunting and battle which kept
the Papuan fit, and it would be better that a few
of him should die of drink than that a great many
of him should die of laziness. There are half a
million or more natives in Australian Papua, and
if a dozen or so plantations cannot get sufficient
labor, and the few pearl-shellers can, it means
that the Papuan likes the sea better than he likes
the hoe and the jungle. To deport the Jap diver
and the Asiatic tenders is merely right; to pro-
hibit the Papuan from leaving Commonwealth
territory to work on the waters of a Common-
wealth State 100 miles away is utterly foolish.
♦
Renegade Americans have put up the capital and
started a big boot factory in Hongkong; and
Chow overseers have been taken over from ’Frisco
factories to teach the cheap crowd of Chinese
laborers bow to work the machines. Lately,
against even the comparatively well-paid labor of
Europe, the Australian tariff hasn’t been high
enough to ensure the work going to the still better
paid Australian ; and, when Chow competition
starts, the present tariff-wall will be just walked
over, as if it were not there at all. One of two
things will have to happen then : Either the tariff
wall will have to be built a lot higher, or the Aus-
tralian wage rate will have to come down a lot
lower. But at present, the matter of wages rests
with Courts and Boards which are under State
jurisdiction, while the matter of the tariff rests
with the Commonwealth. There is thus divided
responsibility, and the men in the boot-trade pro-
bably know the landing place of the person who
sat between two stools.
From an annoyed correspondent :
The few Corpulent friends I have are in the habit of
telling me that these big profits made by the Sydney
Ferries and such-like private monopolies are all due to
the fact that Private Enterprise does the thing so much
better. I don’t know about doing the thing ; but in the
matter of doing the public I’m satisfied they can hold their
own. After many years of travelling by the State railways
I have lately had my first experience of the Sydney Ferries,
except as a penny or tuppenny traveller. These are some
of the differences I have struck. I wanted a periodical
ticket. That was on February 1. Now, you can get a
railway quarterly, half-yearly, or yearly on the first of
any month of the year. But the ferries only issue quar-
terlies on Jan. 1, April 1, July 1 and October 1. If you
come along in Feb. or March or May or June you must
take a monthly. Two monthly tickets to (say) Mostnan’s
will cost you 12s. ; at the per month rate of a quarterly it
would be JOs. 4d. That Is. Bd. is the first little bit the
private monopoly takes out of you just to show how it
can do the thing better. Item 2: The railways issue a
yearly ticket. The second class traveller to Strathfield pays
£5 19s. for four quarterly tickets. But the State issues him
a yearly for £4l6s. 9d. The ferries, just to show how much
better they can do things, make their permanent passen-
gers pay the full £5 19s. a year—no.yearly tickets for them I
Item 3 : Mosman is under four miles from Circular Quay.
A year’s travelling costs £3 2s. Second-class for a year,
four miles, on the State railways costs £3 14s. 3d. So
A Psalm of Counsel.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Though some good folks may take it ill,
As trifling with parsonic frill,
Thus saith the Lord to Jim and Bill,
In admonition, stern and straight :
“Ye hold from Me the brightest zones,
The fairest realm this planet owns,
Guarded on every side by Jones,
And standing yet inviolate.
So far, so good. And all the rest,
Amounting to a racial test,
May be compendiously expressed
In four short words: ‘BeUp To Date.’
“ Australia is the unit. There !
This Commonwealth denotes your share ;
Ye have no loyalty to spare,
In spite of all your Empire prate.
For though the Motherland be good,
Yet may some oddities intrude,
Which it would be extremely rude
On your poor part to imitate.
For instance, if she should be lame,
It’s not included in the game
That you should limp behind the dame,
By way of keeping Up To Date.
“ Australia is the unit, mind !
With bounds unchangeably defined ;
A continent to you assigned—
That is the primary postulate.
One ‘ angry cloth ’ to call your own ;
One scorn for every brand of drone ;
One slant-eyed menace—yours alone !
Involving each ingredient State.
The Commonwealth is paramount ;
City or province merely count
As streamlets from that central fount —
Provided you are Up To Date.
“If ye should fail, with such a start,
To lead the world in Thought and Art,
You’re only fit to draw a cart,
Which probably would be your fate.
Now take the tip of Holy Writ—
You won’t survive unless you’re fit;
And something more than honest grit
Must go to make a people great.
An Asiatic boundary fence
Is little better than pretence
Unless you’re White in every sense—
Unless, in fact, you’re Up-to-Date.
"Ye have an Old Man job on hand,
One that will tax your sense and sand ;
The building of a nation grand
Is not accomplished while you wait.
Put not your trust in men of girth,
Who should have left this waken’d earth
About the period of their birth,
And lived in times appropriate.
For, well-a-day ! their date is fled ;
Unearned Prerogative is dead,
And Decency may reign instead —
But only if you're Up To Date.
“Touching your own forefathers’ case,
Ask History what has taken place
Since Dago legions made the pace—
Say, Anno Domini 78.
Thrice has the Motherland been lost —
Three separate times has she been boss’d
By enterprising foes who cross’d
The German Sea or Dover Strait;
While Bulldog Boys, with clods and sticks,
Failed to frustrate their knavish tricks ;
Hence Freedom’s show was simply nix—
Which came of not being Up To Date.
“ No nation ever went to pot
Till torn with feud, or sick with rot,
Or reconciled to Slavery’s lot,
And ripe for wiping off the slate.
A parcel of anointed skunks ;
A crowd that views its work and funks;
A push of despots, scabs and drunks,
I will by no means tolerate.
Assyria, therefore, had to go,
The Roman, Greek and Ikey Mo.
Gehenna gapes—and rightly so
For nations drifting Out of Date.
“ Look out for snakes among the grass—
The noisy parish-minded ass ;
The paltry devotee of Class ;
The preacher of sectarian hate.
To give such pests an honest deal,
With justice to the public weal,
You may respect their narrow zeal,
But count them foes within the gate.
If they as candidates appear,
Dispose them in their proper sphere—
That is to say, upon their ear—
Your statesmen must be Up To Date.
“ Beware of Thrift’s insidious creed,
That gospel of the moral weed ;
For when a race professes Greed,
True aspiration must stagnate.
But don’t denounce, with censure rash,
The helpful medium known as cash,
Nor swamp it in a futile splash,
Blind to what may eventuate.
Don’t underrate what gonce can do,
Yet always keep in easy view
The unpretentious six-bv-two,
Which places Mammon Out Of Date.
“You can’t do better than apply
The Reverend Hekvky’s rousing cry,
Who bids you Set Your Standards High,
And never pause nor deviate.
This also you must realise—
However high those standards rise,
In ethio or artistic guise,
Your potencies are adequate,
By all-round worth success is won ;
And though you have no soft thing on,
Be sure distinction waits upon
The nation that is Up To Date.
“ The point of honor is your crux ;
Run always straight, and chance the ducks ;
For in this world of constant flux,
The higher type must dominate.
All fetich forms you may neglect,
But vices that command respect,
And virtues that are least correct,
You will do well to cultivate.
Confront the proud, sustain the weak,
And not for you shall Freedom shriek
Till falls your Kosciusko peak—
Assuming you are Up To Date.”
GROPERLAND.
TOM COLLINS.


Waiting for the fourth test was a test of
patience in the face of climatic opposition. How-
ever, aided by the cheerful spirit of D.C.L.,
patience was an easy winner. No sort of bad
weather or wicket can overcast the face of
Australian optimism when inspired to a cheerful
smile by D.C.L., the Whisky of the Wise.*
Brought to Bay
Are those enemies of civilisation, indigestion and
dyspepsia, when Dr. Sheldon’s Digestive Tabules
are employed ; 2s. 6d. per tin of 80 Tabules.*
HARRINGTONS LTD.,
The Cinematograph
Supply House.
The largest assortment of CINEMATOGRAPHS AND
FILMS always in stock by the World’s best makers.
If you want to procure a better supply of Films than
you are obtaining at present, get into communication
with us and state your requirements. Our Film
Library is the largest in the Commonwealth.
We are the people to give you satisfaction.
SYDNEY—MELBOURNE—BRISBANE—ADELAIDE.
“ Propeller” remarks :
Even with the low tariff on marine and stationary oil
engines the Australian is making a gallant fight of it; a
good omen of what could be done if the duties were higher.
The works of the “Invincible” Motor Construction Co.,
Ltd. (formerly known as Mort’s Dock Motor Dept.), at
Woolwich Dock, Sydney, are doing right good work,
building splendid marine engines, both two cycle and four
cycle, in sizes from 2£-h.p. up to 100-h.p., and for all
classes of work, heavy duty, slow speed, semi-heavy duty,
medium speed, and speed. It is a fine and inspiriting
sight to see scores of Australians hard at work turning
out these splendid high-grade engines, and it argues well
for the future, when the great bulk, if not the whole, of
the oil-engine trade will be in Australian hands. Well
trained in a splendidly-organised factory, such as that at
Woolwich, the Australian engineer does work unexcelled
anywhere. The best test of his quality is the fact that
Invincible engines are now recognised everywhere as the
acme of reliability. Besides the marine engines, the co.
also sells splendid farm engines. The Sydney office and
showrooms are at 35 Pitt-street, Sydney, and there are
branches at Melbourne and Bank-street, Adelaide.*
F ranz Josef
Eager Beer
SparKling',
Refreshing',
Exhilarating'
and Pure.
Franz Josef possesses the true Lager quality
and character, being sharp, clean, and of
light gravity.
much for the “ wonderful cheapness” of water carriage—
when the people who can do the thing so much better do
the carrying. Item 4: “Children and school children
(under 18 yeais)—ss. quarterly.” The Ferries’ bill and the
co.’s “ Guides ” say so. But stuck up somewhere in the
office is a typewritten notice which explains how the
people who can do the thing better do some of it by telling
only part of the truth in their printed literature, inas-
much as, when the co. says “ children under 18 ” it really
only means some children under 18—others full rates.
Probably- there are other things to be found out concern-
ing the Private Enterprise which can always do the thing
better. But for a first brief exploration this seems to me
a fair lot to go on with.
Alfred Conroy spoke these bitter words to a
S. M. Herald reporter last Monday :
I told the North Sydney league that I thought when I
first put my name down I was to be judged by men and
not women, or the type of men whom women chiefly
select. I told them that the women’s leagues, which so
clearly predominate, didn’tcontrol the vote of one woman
in ten, and therefore that altogether their equal represen-
tation was a great mistake. I went on to say that never
again would I submit to any Liberal platform where the
bulk of the officials were women ; and that we could
never fight the Labor party, which was directed by men,
while we acted under the advice of women.
I went on to tell them that the whole state of affairs
must be altered, or it would mean the absolute ruin of
the Liberal party; that many- of the women delegates
wore such an air of condescension with poorer women
voters on the Liberal side that they did more harm than
good. I for one, I told them, was a man who never did
expect to get in while women had the controlling power
as delegates, because, in the first place, I was a fighting
representative, and hadn’t the time to dance the neces-
sary attendance on afternoon tea parties, which seemed
to be the first requisite towards securing the votes of
many of the women delegates.
The sting of the reproach lies in the justice of it.
Electioneering in the interests of Adipose has
become a craze with a large class of suburban
females. They plunge into the political game
not because they possess any opinions, one way or
the other, but because active participation in the
anti-Labor movement seems to them to offer
opportunities for social advancement. A Leech
illustration of half a century back depicted an
affable little tradesman addressing an intensely
haughty nobleman in these terms : “ Wot I like
about ’untin’, m’ lord, is that it brings folks
together wot wouldn’t otherwise meet.” It is the
same with “Liberal ’’Leagues: they bring to-
gether, on a footing of equality, the exclusive wife
of the local medico, the intolerably proud spouse
of the prosperous attorney, and the socially-
aspiring little soul whose husband runs the corner
estate agency. If only because the “Liberal”
leagues fairly teem with female “ climbers ” and
those who are doggedly resolved to keep
“climbers” in their proper place around the base
of the social tree, the normal male (to whom the
storm and stress of social warfare is an embarass-
ment) enthusiastically avoids their deliberations.
Thus it happens that the chosen “Liberal” can-
didate tends more and more to be an Onslow,
a Ryrie or a Norman Baylks, to the discredit of
the party and the rage of the more capable men
in it.
The N. S. Wales Labor conference tackled a big
problem in the nationalisation of health, and
affirmed it unanimously. Its sensible conclusion
was that, as we were preparing: to meet the enemy
from abroad, we should organise also against the
enemy from within ; that if we had small arms
and ammunition factories and State military sur-
geons for use against the foreign foe, we ought to
have serum factories and surgical-instrument
works and civilian surgeons and physicians
to be used against the domestic foe. Figures
were given showing the holocaust of infant
life from preventable diseases and curable con-
ditions, especially in the Baekblocks; and other
statistics showing that over 600 mothers had
died in one year in the Commonwealth of pre-
ventable motherhood diseases, most of whom need
not have died had medical aid, hospitals, nursing
and other curative means been available. It
touched the conference, as it must touch every
patriot, that 600 young women, in the prime of
life, and in fulfilment of their greatest service to
the State, should be taken in one year by
preventable disease. If the Labor Ministry
wants to do something big, the thing is here wait-
ing to be done. The saving of lives which are
-lost through want of organisation is a far
more important thing than even the making
of bricks by the State. It is more important even
than the attraction of Jahn and Jarge from
’Oame. For, though the imported citizen may be
worth much, the native-born citizen is worth still
more.
Another view of the matter :
Re starch manufacturers and their factory hands, and
the need for more Protection for both parties (B. 9/2/’ll).
Australian starch-makers do not enjoy an effective duty
of 2d. per lb., or 50 per cent. True, there is a customs
levy of 2d. per lb. on British-made starch ; but, then,
there is a revenue duty on rice, equivalent to Id. per lb.
on the raw material out of which the stuff is made that
blouses and shirt collars are stiffened with. The actual
protection on imported starch is, therefore, only Id. per
lb. A protection of Id. per lb. does not give Australian
makers the control of the market, for the market is sub-
ject to “ stinking fish ” influences, and the starchiest
section of the community continues to get its stiffening
from over the seas. Also, the British article can be landed
in Queensland at the same freight cost as the Victorian
product. As regards wages in the Victorian trade, 365. is
the minimum; the average is 425. There are very
few workers on the 365. mark, and they are be-
ginners; one of the largest manufacturing firms,
whose average wage to starch-workers is 425.,
has only two 365. employees on its pay-sheet.
The proposal of the starch workers is to increase the
minimum wage to 50s. a week. Under the present tariff
this would kill the industry in Australia. Given a
monopoly in the trade by a Protective duty high enough
to amount to a prohibition of the foreign article, the
manufacturers could, of course, afford to pay 50s. a week,
provided the public consumption of starch were not
greatly reduced by the increased charge for it. But
as matters stand, those who are demanding the higher
wages are demanding “ new Protection ” for workers on
the basis of “ old Protection ” for the manufacturers ; and,
moreover, they perhaps don’t consider how great may be
the reduction in the output of the goods if a greatly in-
creased price were to compel consumers to a new
economy.
♦
Melbourne Argus is a humorous old humbug at
times. The other day fit sent a man up to the
northern districts, where the irrigation settlers
are going, and subsequently allowed him to
severely castigate the local farmers for scoffing at
the coming irrigators. These farmers are mostly
owners of 320-acre blocks, and they throw ridicule
and other mud at the 40-acre irrigationist, alleging
him to be a toiler with the ambition and prospects
of a Chinaman. Reproving the scoffer, the paper
added: “There was a time long ago when
the squatter was the rightful holder of agri-
cultural country, and a time when the old-school
farmer, the wheat-grower and haymaker, was
the rightful holder of irrigable country. But
those times are gone. Within a few years every
foot of our northern lands, which can be reached
by water, will be held in farms of 50 acres or so.”
And the Argus that said this—and evidently looked
forward to the change with gladness—is the
Argus that has always fought tooth and nail
against a lan dtax, declaring that a measure which
will cause the big land monopolist and the “ poor
farmer ” to break up their holdings and sell to
small cultivators was confiscation and Sosh, and
would fracture the sanctity of the home and burst
the marriage tie and all the rest of it. From
which it seems that the Argus is one of the dear
but dunderheaded old ladies who love pancakes,
but are fearfully annoyed when anyone breaks an
egg to make the thing that can’t be made without
eggs.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Whip.”
Royal “ Our Miss Gibbs.’’
Criterion “The Belle of Brittany.”
Palace “Seven Days ” (till Saturday).
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Glaciarium West’s Pictures.
Lyceum Spencer’s Pictures.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “The Angel of His Dreams.”
Her Majesty’s “ Jack and the Beanstalk.”
Royal “ The Gay Grisette.”
Kino’s “My Mate."
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co,
West’s Palace West’s Pictures.
Olympia Spencer’s Pictures.
Glaciarium Taits’ Pictures.
Open Air, St. Kilda .. The Follies.
Melb. Town Hall Mary Conly (Wed.)
“ Miss Hook of Holland ” was revived on
Saturday, at Sydney Criterion, so that William
Cromwell might say good-bye to Sydney as the
loathly Slinks. It proves to be the same old Hook
■in most respects. Miss Winifred O’Connor plays
the heroine for the first time in Sydney, and does it
delightfully. Also, her singing is exquisite.
Tom Walls replaces Edwin Brett as Hook.
Both represent the Dutch burgher as a
raffish old London man-about-town —a very
nut of nuts. Conceive the voice and sentiments
of a British duke issuing from the clothes of a
corporation laborer, and you get some faint idea
of the incongruity which enshrouds Hook. The
humor of Walls is less exuberant than that of
Brett, but in no wise less diverting. His make-
up is a triumph, blotting out his Doody
more effectively than 17 blankets could do it.
Harold Thorley, Charles Stone, the Dickenson
Sisters and the famous Clarke-Meynell chorus all
give the utmost satisfaction. On Friday Crom-
well aforesaid departs, leaving a lachrymose
public in his wake; and “Hook” withdraws to
allow “The Belle of Brittany” to level her first
smile at an Australian audience.
“SEVEN DAYS,” AT THE PALACE
THE ATRE, SYDNEY.
Wilson (Hugh Ward) and his Aunt Selina
(Celia Ghiloni).
“The Whip ” will wallop up the race-
course at Her Majesty’s (Sydney) for one more,
week, and then the Chamber of Horrors will pack
up its wax homicide, and the image of the person
who buried his wife underneath the pump will
cease from troubling. “The Whip ” leaves be-
hind it a recollection of about the most realistic rail-
way smash on record. Tait’s department couldn’t
have done it better, and there was nothing to
equal it in Victoria even in the days when the
train used to be 30min. late on a three-mile trip,
and T. Bent used to run behind the guard’s van
and roar to prevent the whole outfit stopping alto-
gether. Yet there were railway-smashing giants
in those days, and the echo of them has hardly
died away even now.
* * X - *
The writer of this pal 1 is just about depart-
ing for a six months’ holiday, and he leaves in the
humble yet earnest hope that “ Miss Gibbs ” will
have finished her career at Sydney Royal by the
time he returns. She is a lady of innumerable
attractions, but she has already been 22 weeks in
one place, and it was through sitting too long in
one place that the human race wore off its tail—a
valuable fly-removing appendage which has not
been recovered even unto this day.
X* X X
At the Palace, Hugh Ward will wind up
his very successful run of “Seven Days” on
Saturday. By way of saying “ So, long !” he will
give the “Scarecrow” dance, with which, years
ago, he first hit the public in the place where it
remembers things. After that he will do a season
in Queensland and round about, and then settle
down to his part in the management of the
J.C.W. business.
** * *
In a way, Rousby’s “Flashlight Scenes
Around Paris” are the most enthralling of this
week’s additions to the bill of Sydney Tivoli.
The little entertainment, which consists of some
transparent scenery, an illuminated model of
the Eiffel Tower, a wire strung with electrically-
played instruments, and one active sham volcano,,
is the sort of thing one would expect to find at a
waxworks matinee. It is well worked, but is a
couple of decades too young for an audience com-
posed mostly of adults. Its liveliest item is the
active volcano which shoots up shadow-rubbish
and ghost-smoke as if it really intended to do some
damage. According to the programme, Bruce
Smith, of Drury Lane Theatre, is responsible for
part of the transparencies. If he is any relation
of the eminent Ma Stater who recently informed
an astonished crowd that the suburb was on
the verge of civil war, he is probably also the
gifted painter of the counterfeit Etna, which looks
terrible in action, but is actually less dangerous
than a hard-boiled egg. Daley Cooper and Mabel
Lait, a brisk pair of musical sketchers, present
the other new turn—a cheerful absurdity, or in-
sanity, which travels as “A Man of Spirit.”
Miss Lait is very pleasant to look at, especially
when attired in a military riding habit; also she
sings and acts with plenty of spirit. Mr. Daley
Cooper is a wilder caricature than usual of that
furious animal, the breakfasting Englishman.
With his face made up apparently to resemble
the Japanese flag, three thick-ruled lines on
his forehead, and sideboard whiskers, he
breakfasts in his dressing-gown, roars at his
wife, uses the morning paper to slap the
table with and to brandish in the air, and throws/
the alleged food all over the room. The old farce-1
formula, in fact, is gone through enthusiastically
at a tremendous pace and with unlimited noise ;
the final result is a disordered stage and heaps of
applause. MissOdeyne Spark, Alexander Prince
and Velanche’s Football Dogs supply other chief
turns. Ethel Loftus and Wild, Willie and West
depart to-night (Thursday). Fasola, the Indian
fakir and illusionist, whose borrowed lion recently
escaped from a Rickards matinee and took a harm-
less stroll down Little Collins-street, Melbourne,
is due on Saturday.
** * *
People who have not seen “ Captain Mid-
night,” at the Lyceum, had better make haste, for
the bold buccaneer will soon disappear from the
transient screen ; and he is worth seeing. There
is a charming representation of “Auld Robin
Grey,” and the fearsome wickedness of the de-
struction of “the coo” is calculated to give one
a lump in the throat. The Lyceum has also the
film of the vagaries of Foolshead as an Inspector
under the Municipality. “Amongst the Tivoli
Hills” is a charming scenic. An adroit way of
acquiring wealth from the deep, as practised in
Japan, is illustrated in the series entitled
“ Fishing with Cormorants.” The indus-
trial side is represented by a giant saw-
mill. On Monday night the Spencer pictures
will shift across to the Palace till March
10th, while the Lyceum takes on its new garment
of decoration and is made even more attractive by
the installation of patent air fans. One of the
features of the new programme at the Palace will
be a representation of “ Rip Van Winkle.”
At West’s Pictures—Glaciarium, Sydney—
the pride of place is held by the aerial drama,
“Through the Clouds.” Presumably it is fake,
but it is such a masterpiece of fake that it is
worth going a long way to see. Any fpol can take
photographs of nature so long as he has intelli-
gence, to know when to turn the handle; but it
takes brains to fix up a fake like this. Other
dramas.on the programme are “The Marked
Trail ” and “ East Lynne’’—and the Lord for-
give ’em. In the comedy section Foolshead
is once more on deck, this time as an inspector
of hygiene. Foolshead, clothed with the brief
authority of a municipal officer, is just It. The
Gaumont Graphic gives the topical things of the
week the world over, but hardly comes up to the
Pathe Gazette of the days a-rear. One of the
most superb films is that of Luxor and Thebes.
Those splendid ruins appeal to one, and send the
observer out into the street obsessed with a sense
of the vanity of most things and the brevity of
life.
** * *
At Her Majesty’s (Melb.) the panto, is
never weary of well-doing. It continues to start
at 7.15 p.m. sharp; on Wednesdays and Satur-
days it begins also at 2 p.m. sharp. Thus far the
commencement has lost none of its edge. The
Williamson emporium of varieties is the place
where the wild Cowlet grows, and the nodding
Beanstalk blows, and there sings the Fairy Queen
of the night and the matinee. The ballets are
full of bounding life, the Willy Pantzer Com-
panions pursue their acrobatic way, Miss Arun-
dale kills the Giant every time without fail, Neil
Kenyon talks double Scotch, the Doherty Sisters
frivol joyfully, and irrelevancy reigns every-
where. In short, the grand annual Christmas
panto, keeps its end up.
** * *
A new Colonel Pom Pom was identified
with “ The Gay Grisette ” at Melbourne Royal last
Saturday, the previous exponent of that elderly
military character having gone to Sydney. Tom
Graves, the new-comer, is a somewhat taller
colonel than Dauby, and his nervousness on
his first appearance was nothing in his
favor; but his voice showed some pretensions
to musical effect, anyway. Otherwise there is
no change in “The Gay Grisette.” The same
four casual girls who swooped down upon the
original Pom Pom and claimed him for their old
admirer are now getting £lOOO damages from Tom
Graves, nor has the cannibal princess abated any-
thing of her Christy Minstrel exuberance. Being
the absolutely last word in burlesque, she needs
must exuberate to live. If she were to go off the
boil, the dusky interloper would have no further
excuse for her intrusion.
** * *
“My Mate” has another week to run at
the King’s, so the latest Andersonian venture in
Australian melodrama may be said to have justi-
fied itself. Written to suit the company, it gets a
smooth performance and a warm reception, especi-
ally on Saturday nights, when the bitter cry of a
police sergeant in his discomfiture goes straight to
the gallery’s heart.
** * *
The days of George Marlow’s co. at the
Princess’s are numbered, seemingly. On Satur-
day next (February 25) the co. will turn its atten-
tion to “The Angel of His Dreams.” a drama
which owes its being to the “Fascinating Pen of
Mr. Geo. de Gray”; but the advt. mentions that
the Angel will be dreamed about for six nights
only.
“ THE LUCE OF ROARING CAMP,"
AT MELBOURNE
PRINCESS’S.
HARRY DIVER
as
Tom Barnes.
JOHN
COSGROVE
as Paddy
MoGinty.
At the Opera House there is a renewal for
a brief period of Julian Rose, the slow-moving
comedian who sings odd verses in a conversational
manner, and talks a lot about Levinsky and Gold-
stem and Finkelstein. Also Yetta, a little lady
who cakewalks on a wire, is a recent arrival, and
probably Lucia Collins is singing “ The Little
Widow ” and other ballads with agreeable re-
sults. This paragraph, however, doesn’t vouch
for the daughter of Lottie Collins. She was
to have appeared on Saturday; but her throat
was indisposed, and the extent of her postpone-
ment seemed rather uncertain, as in the case of
Test matches. ‘ Fasola, without the lion, still
giving the signals for a rapid succession of “ illu-
sions”; Fanny Powers revives memories of An-
tonio Sal vino and Patrick Rafferty; and the Six
American Dancers repeat their prettily arranged
performance. It is good to see the dancers earn
their salary. They are a triumph of trades union-
ism, and a study in toolongsomble.
** * *
Taits’ Pictures at the Glaciarium took on
an interesting pi&ce de resistance last Saturday in
the form of a long drama of local manufacture
Charles Reade’s story, “ It’s Never Too Late to
Mend,” had been adapted by W. J. Lincoln for
dumb show purposes, and Johnson and Gibson
had prepared three or four thousand feet of
photographs for reproduction on the screen. The
picture promised well for the future of the Aus-
tralian “art film” industry. The adapter has
“potted ” the novel, rather than the drama of the
same name, and done it very well. The actors look
their parts and play them dramatically, and the
heroine, who is a first consideration and the only
girl in the piece, fills the bill quite charmingly.
For about an hour “It’s Never Too Late To
Mend ” kept a packed house interested. A man
with a ripe, sonorous voice supplied brief de-
scriptive details, and kept the story in a state of
coherency, the only noticeable shortcoming being
the absence of a moral tag, to the effect that the
conversion of the English thief, Tom Robinson,
had been fully completed in the Sunny South.
Other striking films at Taits’ are “ David and
Goliath ” and a fine Pathe series of wild bird-life
pictures.


BEARD’S British-Built Bioscope,
second to none. Sole Agents—Jerdan’s
Ltd., 893 George Street, Sydney. Let us send
you particulars^*
insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
*
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED,
PITT AND KINO STREETS, SYDNEY.
FIRE ACCIDENT, EMPLOYERS’ LIABILITY, PLATE GLASS, Etc.
Lowest Rates Charged.
’Phone No. 236 Central.
Settlements Prompt and Equitable.
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman.
G. HOWARD POPE, Manager.
HEADACHE.
Headache is not an ailment —it is a symptom,
an indication of some constitutional derangement
elsewhere, and it should be treated, not with a
headache cure, but with Chamberlain’s Tablets.
Constipation, biliousness, torpid liver all cause
sick headache, and are quickly cured by Cham-
berlain’s Tablets.*
ALBERT VERNON,
MUSICAL
DIRECTOR ,
MEL-
BOURNE
ROYAL.
At Melbourne Olympia Spencer is un-
winding “The Irony of Fate.” It is an ugly
story touching on illicit love, death and delirium
tremens. “The Stolen Claim” is somewhat
similar, though its end will better please romantic
youths and sentimental ladies. There is a certain
moral for wives in the funny tale of “Turning
the Tables,” while extra humor is supplied by
Tontolini, who is again a picture of imprudent
energy. Photographically, the best film shows
“A Holiday in Wales,” where all the scenery
looks well-conducted, and even the cascades fall
with cold decorum.
** * *
At St. Kilda (Vic.) The Follies continue
to invite support at popular prices. These nights
they are giving a travesty of “The Whip” in
addition to their vocal and musical dissipations.
The burlesque is wild, yet one is only gently
fanned by the eddies of, its mirth. The rest of
the present performance is a reasonable echo of
previous programmes. The “big gun ”of the
show is still Miss Ella Airlie, who is clever in her
infantile affectations. Bert Leywood sings hap-
pily ; Howard Hall surrounds a big baritone voice
with an appearance of frightful majesty ; and
Miss May Morell warbles sweet, bashful little
songs that wouldn’t for the world go out after
dark without a chaperon.
** * *
The chief event in theatrical circles in
Adelaide is the Verran Government’s complete
prohibition of the Sunday evening performances
that have become usual almost everywhere. The
managers say they keep young people “off the
streets ”; the Judkinses say they take them
out of their homes, and lead them away from the
“chapel” wherein Brother Verran is wont to
hold forth. One or two houses are testing the
legal aspect by opening as usual, “not with any
idea of setting the law at defiance, but for the
purpose of respectfully protesting against
the attempt to interfere with the liberty
of the subject.” So there is likely to be
work for Ultra Vires and other legal gentlemen
shortly. Another Amusement item is a public
farewell to Henry Gainford, who may be called
the local Judkins, and whom Melbourne has in-
duced Adelaide to part with. Leipzig, making
his first Australian appearance at the Tivoli,
proves to be a conjurer of the simple personal-
skill kind. His best effects are gained .with a
pack of cards, which disappear and reappear, or
change their spots, while a committee from the
audience is surrounding him and watching every
movement. It is wonderfully simple, but simply
wonderful, and one is not surprised that King
Edward was fond of having him to help the
royal digestion after dinner. At the Royal,
Max Maxwell has made a spendid start as a suc-
cessor in the Bland Holt line. At popular prices
he has done excellent business, and is continuing
it with “ The Spider and the Fly,” in which Miss
Maude Plunkett, a local amateur of exceptional
power, gets a professional chance. Wests and the
Empire are both specialising with a film showing
American cowboys in “the great south-west”;
and the new King’s Theatre is getting ready to
open its doors under Branseombe’s management.
** * *
“Tarboy’s” account of a new kind of
show: —
Zimmerle and Maurermet on Wednesday, at Toowoomba
(Q.), to shear for the Championship of Australia. Weather
conditions were bad, yet a keenly interested crowd of
over 2000 watched the battle for two and a half hours.
When the pair stripped on the stage, it was seen that the
two main types of men who win championships were re-
presented. Maurer is of medium height, spare, wiry, and
full of nervous energy ; Zimmerle is tall, burly, siow in
movement, chary of speech and possessed of a tempera-
ment hot to be disturbed by anything short of an earth-
quake. From the first blow, Maurer showed that he had
a bad attack of stage fright; he told the writer after the
match that he had never felt so nervous in his
life before. That feeling was reflected in his style, which
was of the short, quick kind. Zimmerle appeared to be
working much more slowly; yet his comb was always
full, from the long sweeping stroke which most “ big
guns ” use nowadays. Zimmerle’s mistakes in two and a
half hours were only four, and trivial at that. He is a
champion all right, although the number shorn may seem
disappointing to a public fed up on tales of big tallies in
the sheds. Zimmerle shore 32 and Maurer 28. Zimmerle
could have put on another seven, but after getting a lead
of two sheep in the first 12, he simply held the other man
to the end. Still, his 32 wasn’t a mean performance
under the circumstances, for the sheep were big
Albilbah wethers, with 12 months’ wool, not in
the best condition, and hollow; and there were
other things against big tallies. The 32 is equal
to 127, on a day’s work. Which, under the circum-
stances, will take beating. The workmanship was almost
faultless. Each man appointed a judge, and the pro-
moters of the match appointed a referee. W. K. Gumming
acted for Maurer, and T. Keene for Zimmerle. W. G.
Brown was ' referee. The judges and referee were
unanimous that Zimmerle won as to numbers, quality of
work and style. The men are Australian born ; Maurer
is a New Englander (N.S. W.) and Zimmerle a Toowoomba
native. Both are of German descent. A crop of Chal-
lengers has already appeared, and there should be some
lively battles soon. The two men meet again, by acci-
dent, on the Barcoo, where they had engaged stands
before the match was made and unknown to each other.
E. H. Macartney, one of the three new
men in the Queensland Ministry, is the rising
hope of the Tory party up north. He is not an
impressive speaker, but he is a keen and perti-
nacious debater, prone to worry a bone until it
doesn’t know whether it’s a bone or not. He was
the one man on the Government side who dared to
question the late Premier’s improper use of some
£70,000 that should have been part of the surplus
of 1910 and have gone automatically towards the
repayment of loans. There was personal feeling
on both sides, and one Ministry would never have
held the two of them. As Minister for Lands
Macartney has a tough job ahead. But the
hardened Gent One has nerve enough to tackle
most things. , . __
AT POVERTY POINT.
W. S. Percy, the Australian comedian, will leave for
London and its footlights in May. Percy started out
with the Lilliputian Opera 00. when it was formed in 1891,
and with Harry Quealy, Nable, Charlie Albert, May
Beatty, Maud Beatty, Nellie Wilson and others laid the
foundation of a popularity that is now a six-storey con-
cern and still climbing. Tom Pollard—who, by the way,
is running-a cinematograph show at Greymouth (M.L.)
these times—took the co. over from Williamson in 1892
or ’93, and for years M.L. was the base of operations.
Pollard taught the youngsters with the greatest care, and
looked after them like a father. But they had to work.
Three changes a week was common, especially towards
the end of the co.’s career as a juvenile concern. They
played everything from pantomime to “ Maritana,” and
from “Maritana” through “Uncle Tom’s Cabin,” over
Gilbert and Sullivan’s repertoire, round modern musical
comedies like “The Geisha,” “The Belle of New York,'”
etc., and back to “Tambour Major,” “Les Cloches ” and
other dusty old friends. Percy first appeared in “ The
Pirates of Penzance,” but it would take a fair day’s work
to make out a list of what he has appeared in since. He
will take to London talent and a capacity for hard graft,
and J. C. Williamson will show him where to deposit the
valuable goods to the best advantage.
London’s latest show place, the big Palladium, is said
to contain a novelty in box accommodation. At the back
of the auditorium it has two or three very secluded t&te-
a-tUe boxes. You can hire one of these for a pound.
The management will probably enter up the receipts as
tertium quids.
MARGUERITE LEROY,
The dancer brought in by Clarke and Meynell to appear in “The Belle of Brittany.”
Living in quiet contentment in 9 Melbourne suburb is
William Arrowsmith Ryan, who came to Sydney in 1854,
and performed at the old Victoria Theatre. • He was
engaged with G. V. Brooke in his first Sydney engage-
ment, when the receipts were £4OO a night. Mr. Ryan
was born in London in 1826, and is therefore 85 years of
age. Mrs. Ryan, whose stage name was Miss Montrose,
is still also living. Two sons were on the stage, but both
are now dead. Two other sons not connected with
“ Poverty Point ” still live, and a daughter is the wife of
Randolph Bedford.
Reported that Ysaye, the great though eccentric Bel-
gian violinist, will be fiddling in Australia during 1912.
“ Gwy ” : The Beecham who dropped the pot of money
over a London opera season is not a mere pill-built parvenu.
He is about as much unlike the average patent medi-
cine man as can be conceived. At the age of 19 he con-
ducted a private orchestra at St. Helens, the pill factory
town. He went to Oxford, but became neither a curate
nor a schoolmaster, deliberately choosing as his career
the conductorship of an operatic orchestra; and for
that W'ork he steadfastly trained himself. He is no crank
or visionary, but a conductor with an extraordinary sense
of rhythm and a wide musical culture. He founded
the Beecham Symphony Orchestra, whose greatest
achievement to date has been the “ Mass of
Life,” an enormous choral work by a new com-
poser, Delius. Delius’s “ Koanga,” a rather curious opera
dealing with negroes, in which banjos play a part, was in
Beecham’s little list for his 1910-11 Oovent Garden season.
The young man —still only 30—is credited with possessing
a fascinating personality. He is erratic and careless in
details, yet a born organiser, and an inveterate crusher
of the small flies that buzz in their little coteries, no less
than of the pompous bluebottle who is enjoying a
“ boom.”
’Tis a tall obstacle that stops Melba getting what she
wants badly, and the way she secured tenor McCormack
for her coming Australian opera is characteristic.
Manager Dippel, of the N’Yark Metropolitan Opera
House, tried to get the diva for a season ; but, as this
meant five trips (of 1000 miles each) between N'Yark and
Chicago, she refused. After deciding on McCormack for
her Australian tour, she discovered him to be this same
Dippel’s temporary property. She sent for the manager
and asked for the loan of the rising Irish warbler. Dippel
considered the tenor one of the draws of his season, and
of course refused. Melba, after piling argument on argu-
ment unsuccessfully, at last (so runs the yarn) offered
as a quid pro quo for McCormack to make as many
N’Yark-Chicago trips as Dippel liked ; and that settled
the matter, of course.
“L.H.P.”: R« Dickens and the Drama. One of the
first to crib from Dickens for stage purposes was William
Moncrief, who turned “ Pickwick ” into a three-act
comedy. Produced at London Strand in 1837 as “ Sam
Weller,” it elicited loud protests from Dickens. Ham-
mond, a well-known actor of his day, made a hit as Sam.
Dickens’s characters have been lucrative roles for many
mimes. John L. Toole was a splendid Artful Lodger in
“Oliver Twist,”and he did Caleb Plummer in “The Cricket
on the Hearth ” when in Australia in 1889-90. “ Bleak
House” furnished Jennie Lee with her almost classic
“Jo.” Hubby J. B. Burnett generally played Inspector
Bucket. John Brougham laid violent hands on Dickens,
both in ’Murka and London, and was one of the most
successful actor-managers in that line. His scissors and
paste versions of ‘ ‘ David Oopperfield ” and “ Dombey and
Son ” are splendid acting pieces, and are to be found in
Dick’s Standard Plays. Brougham played Micawber,
Captain Cuttle and Major Bagstock. The Olympic
(London) in the ’7o’s put on a version of Cop-
perfield, under the title of “Little Em’ly,” in
which Frank Emery made a success as Peggotty.
Micawber has always been popular with comedians. It
was the favorite and only Dickens role of Edward Terry,
who played a Sydney season at the defunct Lyceum in
1894. “ Barnaby Rudge” was turned into a very ser-
viceable “ domestic drama in three acts,” and produced
at the London Lyceum in 1841; this romance of the
Lord George Gordon riots furnished a fine sartorial set-
ting. Nance O’Neill, on her first visit to Australia,
essayed Nancy in a dramatic version of “ Oliver Twist,”
which, in this defenceless continent, is mostly associated
with D’Orsay Ogden’s Fagin. Of “ A Tale of Two Cities ”
there are many versions in existence. Fox Cooper, who
dramatised “ Ivanhoe ” for Astley’s in 1869, turned it into
“an historical drama in a prologue and four acts,” and
produced it at the Victoria (London) in 1860. “The
Only Way,” another and more modern version, pen-
pushed for Martin Harvey, was done here by Tyrone Power.
“The Old Curiosity Shop ” gave Fred Marshall, as Quilp, a
chance to do one of the most marvellous performances the
Australian stage has ever seen. In fact, it was said the
part helped to kill him. In make-up and dress, he per-
fectly realised the illustrations by “ Phiz.” Frank
Thornton, in his earlier Australian tours, used to include
Sergeant Buzfuz, in the one-act trifle, “ Bardell, v.
Pickwick ” in his repertoire. Irving, as Jingle, in a
similar one-act piece taken from “ Pickwick,”
used to give an impersonation that would have
delighted Dickens himself. “ Pickwick ”is probably the
only instance of a Dickens subject being turned into
operetta form. The music is by Solomon (whose “ Vicar
of Bray” and “ Billee Taylor” were done by the Royal
Comics), libretto by Punch Burnand. Billy D’Ensem,
stage manager at the Tivoli in 1894-5-6, used to give, on
tour, a-strikingly good performance of the operatic Pick-
wick, and in make up he looked as if he had stepped out
of a Cruickshank plate.
Somehow, apropos the British elections, J. F. Hogan
managed to insinuate into the London Daily CiiRONiOLBa
notice of the queer amateur theatrical performance given
by members of Parliament in Melbourne in 1861, when
JEIOOO was raised for the hospital, then sadly in want
through the discontinuance of the generous donations of
Rowe, the circus man. The play was “ The Merchant of
Venice.” Two retired professional actors co-operated,
Morton King as Shylock, and Coppin as Launcelot Gobbo.
“ Jean S.” : Bernard Shaw’s “ double” is in Melbourne.
Feature for feature, he is G.B.S. He has those diabolic
brows that frighten caricaturists into drawing the truth.
He has that anarchic nose that would be utterly out of
place on a bishop or a boots. He has a mouth that is
always acting. He has the greying moustache that is
stiff in a large, dictatorial pose. He has the arrogant
beard and the eyes that would strut if they could possibly
walk. And—he is an attendant in a Socialistic refuge
labelled “Gentlemen.”
“ Busk ” : On Sunday night, sitting among the audience
on the stage at the Melbourne Bijou, my mind roved
over the history of this picture tabernacle. Built
by Jimmy Munro’s Victoria Permanent Building
Society, it was opened in 1875 as the Academy of
Music with a concert by De Murska and company. (She
was wrongly supposed to be married to a Count. In Mel-
bourne she wedded Anderson, a pianist. He died, and
she married John Hill.) The name was changed to the
Bijou when it fell under the management of Mr. and Mrs.
Lewis (Bose Edouin). Creswick acted there. Then came
the regime of Brough and Bouci, who transferred from
the Opera House. The theatre was burnt, and the com-
pany had to appear at the Hibernian Hall until the re-
building. The Bijou was splendidly redecorated and ex-
pensively safetied a couple of years ago. Then the King’s
arrived and capsized it utterly. The only retrieval was
with pictures. So pictures it is.
“Whips of Blood”: Do picturegraphs elevate? I
dunno ; but this advt. of a leading show seems to have
no doubt about it:—
“ A Startling Series of Pictures that Please—
THE GREAT GAUMONT GRAPHIC
showing
THE PARISIAN AERIAL DISASTER,
Death of M. Alexander Laffont and Senor Mario Pola at
Issy-les-Moulineaux, Paris.”
I’m hoping to learn shortly that a flicker was procured
of the recent frying to death of a Maoriland family on the
iron roof of their burning house. Any day now I expect
to see an advt. to this effect
“ A New Series of Delightful Pictures.
CHILDREN ROASTED ALIVE.
Showing
THE CHARMING DEATH SCENE
In all its thrilling incidents and varied agonies. This
favorite picture has been obtained at great expense,
and the management confidently recommend it
to a pleasure-loving public. Box plan open
from 6 a.m.”
A programme note states that Ella Airlie, the cute
young girl who plays the piano accompaniments at The
Follies, in Melbourne, and sings as cleverly as she plays,
supplied the words and music of “ Bottle-0 ! ” which was
introduced in Anderson’s panto, at the King’s a year ago.
If the idea of “ Bott.le-0 ” was quite original, Miss Airlie
should have a future as a composer of humorous descrip-
tive songs. The ditty has a catchy air, bright words and
human interest. The cry of the bottle merchant appeals
to the public understanding as forcibly as a reference to
mother-in-law, or bathing garments, or even the Beer
that is associated with Bottles.
“Spotlight”: The comment of “Vic.” (B. 16/2/’ll)
upon the engagement of Dolly Castles as principal boy
for Drury Lane and the importation of Sybil Arundale
for the same production—“ Jack and the Beanstalk ”in
Australia is a surface reading of plain facts. In the first
place, an artist cannot help her birthplace, and in the
second place a manager doesn’t care where she was born
so long as she can deliver the goods. But Dolly Castles
has always, in the theatrical profession, been regarded as
the special prot6g6e of the Williamson management. J. C.
Williamson put her into Gilbert and Sullivan “leads,”
and his stage managers taught her all she knew
when she left this country. The J. C. Williamson
influence followed her to London, and the friendship
between the Australian management and Arthur Collins
was probably a big factor in her realising the job of prin-
cipal boy at the Lane. Now, if J.C.W. wanted her for
Australia he would find her market value about £3O a
week ahead of what he could previously have gone in and
engaged her at for Australia. And the extraordinary
part of it is that Dolly Castles is now better value to him
at the higher figure. That is one of the disabilities of
Australian management. But all this does not make
Sybil Arundale any the less an attractive “ boy.” I saw
her last week in Melbourne and appraised her as in the
same class as Nellie Stewart at her best. As long as
J.C.W. imports them as good as Sybil Arundale his
audiences have nothing to kick about.
The giant in the pantomime at Drury Lane (London)
this season is the real article. He is so big that the
audience never sees him all at once. Once his arm comes
down out of space and carries off the princess ; and once
he walks across the stage, visible only up to the knees.
When O. Henry, the American short-story writer,
found the shades of death descending on him, he asked
the nurse to bring a candle to his bedside. “I’m afraid
to go home in the dark,” he said. Was ever another
music hall song so glorified in a quotation ?
Sydney’s great R.A.S. Show will this year
run from April 11 to 19. The schedule won’t
shock anyone with changes, though there are a
few—notably in the direction of bigger prizes, a
class for ladies who will be asked to ride over the
big fences, and a handicap trot. On the grounds
themselves further big improvements have been
made, £15,000 having been voted for new stands
and other conveniences.
The High Court is now exhausting itself
over the tremendous boundary dispute between
Victoria and S. Australia; and Costs are having
a magnificent time over a narrow strip of soil
which could be as happy with one as with the
other. And, anyway, in 10 years it won’t
matter whether the boundary is fixed here
or a mile further over, because it most likely
won't be there anyway, having been removed in
the reconstruction of States that is bound to
arrive presently.
Some Judges take a queer view of the
First Offenders Act. For instance, the other
day a bank clerk in N. S. Wales pleaded guilty at
the Quarter Sessions to stealing £3l, which was
part of a total shortage of £lO4. The Judge
handed out a sentence of three years’ hard labor,
and then softened the blow by offering the clem-
ency of the Act on these terms : The defaulter (1)
to put up £lOO that he would be good for three
years; (2) to go bail in another £lOO to pay back
the £104; (3) to find sureties for £4OO (£2OO for
each of 1 and 2). The boy’s friends were willing
to save him, and they had the money to do it. So
he got off, and the bank got its money back. No
one grudges the youth his escape. But it is palp-
ably wrong that it should have depended on
whether his family or friends were able and will-
ing to pay £4OO or not. It amounts to administer-
ing justice on the basis of £s. d. In this case the
unregenerate may say that the youngster was
bought off, and that the three years’ sentence was
an attempt on the Judge’s part to hide favoritism.
Worse still, it might be argued that the Judge
piled up the sentence in order to make certain
that the family would make good the misappro-
priated dollars.
From an Old Philosopher :
The 12 months’ imprisonment inflicted on Julius for
having been concerned in the publication of a shameful
libel on Kina George V., recalls the case of those two-
worthy citizens who were executed outside Stirling
Castle in 1820. They had spoken disrespectfully of King
George 111. immediately after his death. They might
have referred to him as a monarch whose favorite cure
for discontent among the people had been “ a whiff of
grapeshot ” in the years before he lapsed into lunacy and
became the sport of his drunken sons. But the two
worthy citizens said a good deal less than that. Many
Scotchmen of the period reckoned that the penalty
for merely stating facts was rather severe; wherefore
the authorities (God bless ’em!) called out the yeo-
manry to assist in keeping order around the scaffold.
The condemned men, having assured the crowd that they
were not a bit sorry, were killed one at a time, the exe-
cutioner being too nervous to hang them both at once.
Then he took each body in turn and laid its head on a
block, and chopped it off —and made an awful mess of the
axeing on account of his nervousness. When the
mangled neck of each citizen was fairly severed from the
trunk he held up his trophy and cried, “ Behold the head
of a traitor!” even as the black-visored headsmen used
to do in Harrison Ainsworth’s novels. Tl%s was in
a.d. 1820. Comparing the gory fate of the two mild
radicals who committed no crime at all with the 12
months’ imprisonment inflicted on the man who had cir-
culated a criminal lie against the King, one is forced to
the conclusion that royal majesty has lost a terrible lot
of its augustness since George the Fourth ascended the
throne.
LINES INSPIRED BY A CABLE STATING THAT
TWO ACTORS HAD BEEN SHOT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Why were they slaughtered, I wonder !
Was one a Hero intense
Gaoled through some crass legal blunder !
Was his companion’s offence
Villainy—murder or plunder
Done without reason or sense ?
Is that the answer, I wonder !
Why did the audience shoot them?
Was’t for their efforts at wit?
Did the stalls angrily hoot them
(Likewise the circle and pit)?
Then, finding gibes did not boot them,
Reach for their pistols and sit
Callously cool there, and shoot them ?
Were they mere supers who perished—
Humble, ill-recompensed folk?
“ Show-ladies” tenderly cherished
Both by the Boxite and Bloque?
“ Heavies ” whom nobody relished ?
Did they wear trousers or toque —
They, who so cruelly perished?
All Reuter says is : Two mummers
Started their permanent “ rest,”
Punctured with shot. Were they “ hummers ” —
Types one regards as a pest ?
Young? Or of numerous summers?
Anyhow, ’twas for the best —
Since the deceased were two mummers.
N.S.W.
10-2-4.
THE BACKBONE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Piety must always have something to do with a gal.
She is the backbone of its drama.— Wise saying of “ One
Who Pays.”— (B. 9/a,’ll).
When writing a drama of Piety—
“ The Sign ” or “The Christian" variety—
Despise not the fake
That’s dead sure to “ take,”
And please ev’ry class of society ;
Though religion’s your theme, take this tip from a pal—
Your plot must have something to do with a gal !
Your play' may have sermons and hymns in it,
And show much unclothed pagan limbs in it.
And lions may roar,
And lap Christian gore—
“ The Sign,” as you know, fairly swims in it.
But the piece to the masses won’t seem natur-al,
Unless all the rumpus is caused through a gal!
In England, or Lapland, or Persia,
Your scenes may be laid, but inertia
Is fatal—l mean.
The best-painted scene
Won’t “draw” like a Glory or Mercia ;
You may christen your heroine commonplace Sal,
So long as you write a fat part for the gal!
And so—though it savor of platitude—
Let “ toujours la femme" be your attitude
When writing a play ;
Hall Caine makes it pay—
His fees show the playgoers’ gratitude.
Thus the backbone of drama —deny it who shall—
Since Eve played with Adam, is always the gal !
VICTORIA.
EARDLEY TURNER


THE MAN WHO DRIVES THE CAR
WILL TELL YOU.
The man who actually handles motor cars can speak about the
makes that DALGETY & CO. stock.
We do not wish you to buy a car from us simply on our own
recommendation.
The cats we stock are in themselves a standard of excellence on
which the opinions of experts are based.
We refer our clients to the opinions of practical men, mechanics,
engineers. The mere mention of the names
Daimler. Delavmay-Belleville 8 Austin
is sufficient guarantee.
These beautiful models are always ready for your in-
spection at our garage in Phillip Street.
DALGETY & CO. Ltd.
136-138 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY.
m
1
I Hi 11
m
Tl > e INDISPENSABLE SUIT CASE
It will carry all contents without crushing, and is easy to handle m either Train. Tri * l “ i " r
The Compressed Cane Suit Case, described and illustrated here, is most highly reoomm ended.
COMPRESSED CANE SUIT CASES,
as illustration. Made of genuine “ Stork ’
Brand Compress' d Cane, two Superior
Lever Looks and Inside Straps.
Sizes—22 xl4 x 7 in.
Prices- 38/6
Sizes —26 x 16 x 8 in.
Prices— 46/=*
Sizes—3o xl7 x 8 in.
Prices— 55 j-
-24 x 15 x 7J in.
42/=
28 x 16 x 8 in.
50/=
tpaVFI LERS TO THE CORONATION.—We can supply you with just th
and Trunks you can trust. Complete Illustrated Price List Iree.
initials on free of charge, and
WE PAY CARRIAGE on these goods to any part of the Commonwealth.
> Trunks you need,
We stamp name or
DAVID JONES LTD.
Opp- G. P. O.
SYDNEY.
SOCIETY
PENFOLD'S
WINES
THE ESCAPE OF THE IMPS,
Sundries accounted for a large proportion of the
scores in the fourth Test Match.
“ W.M.,” on his own responsibility :
Re the “ Plain English” article(B. 2/2/T1) on “ Manning
the Australian Navy.” Thk Bulletin would alter its
opinion considerably if it served for just one day on one
of those heaps of scrap-iron called warships. After that
one day’s experience it might suggest to Mr. Pearce that
the men be given better sleeping and eating quarters,
and that the said quarters he about 10 times bigger, and
a thousand times better ventilated than they are at pre-
sent. It might also recommend Mr. Pearce to provide a
decent library and recreation-room for the men ; also a
workshop where those with ideas could put them into
practical shape. That one day’s experience, under pre-
sent conditions, would explain why, out of 79 men who
had served their five years, only three signed on for an-
other five.
* * * *
“X.” : He looked a very busy man and
flitted about Sydney streets on one of the wettest
of the late rainy days. “No time to lose,” he
said, hurriedly. “Must have it in good time
before the Coronation.” “What?” I asked.
“This list,” he said, taking out a bulky note-
book. “lam collecting the names of all living
Australians who have contributed in one sum
£lOOO or over to objects of a charitable, philan-
thropic or imperial character ; we’ll print the list
nil fine style, with photos and brief autobiographi-
i'cal notes ; splendidly bound—in fact, a work of
■art. Copies will be placed in the proper hands
lin time for consideration for a share of Corona-
tion honors. Eh ? Of course.”
“ Arsemo ” : “ Gil
Gunnia's” motion for
the appointment of a
Minister of Domestic
Science and Educational
Hygiene is good ; but it
fails in its expressed
object of getting down
to bedrock. “Gil” says:
“Let us start right on
the bottom rung, and
build up a nation of good
bone, muscle, blood and
sinew.” Good; but first
catch your hare. What
is the use of even a per-
fect system of protecting
Australia’s babies if we
have no babies to pro-
tect ? What we want is
a Minister for Babies,
with a large staff of
police, detectives, trained
nurses, etc. He would
have the powers men-
tioned by “Gil Gunnia,”
but his chief duty would
be to make the arrival
of the new Australian
more frequent and regu-
lar, and considerably less
dangerous; and amongst
other things he should be
required to pursue, gaol,
hang and otherwise dis-
courage all Mother
Grundies, quack and
crook doctors and
chemists, and the in-
numerable malpracticers
of both sexes. If this
were thoroughly done,
it would result in an
astonishing rise in the
birth-rate. A tremen-
dous trade is done
throughout Australia by
those who prevent, in
various ways, the arrival
of new citizens. Mel-
bourne has at least one
well-known private hos-
pital, bearing a qualified
doctor’s plate on its door, — ;T - T . T
which takes only the one kind of case. By
their inactivity, the police would seem to know
nothing of its existence ; but I have met nobody
outside the Force who was ignorant of the use to
which this institution is being put. Therefore, I
move for a Minister for Babies to be appointed
immediately.
The McGowen Ministry of N.S.W. has
decided to abjure the stuffy ways of its prede-
cessors, so it will shove up no more tenement
houses on the Rooks, Sydney, for the accommoda-
tion of waterside workers. Instead it is going to
build five-room-and-a-kitchen cottages, and the
calculation is that a married wharf lumper will
rent each cottage and take in two single wharf
lumpers as boarders. It looks a rather tight fit—
three lumpers, one lumperess and a lump of a
family all in five apartments, and the theory
that only one lumper in three is to be mar-
ried is bad for the birth-rate. And, even
then, all the cottages that there is room
for don’t even begin to solve the problem of
how to bring the wharf-laborer close to his work,
he being a man liable to sudden calls,and wanted
at short notice. N.S.W. has done such marvels
in the way of condensing all trade at one port
that the shipping of Sydney is now more than
one-third that of London, and exceeds that of
every other British port save Liverpool, the Tyne
and Cardiff. It beats Glasgow out of sight, and
it is increasing so fast that there are very few
British ports in the same category with it. There
was a bitter howl last week that so much extra
trade had been brought to Sydney with-
out any extra accommodation being pro-
vided for it that even when .a load of
wheat had travelled a needless 200 miles to reach
the wharves, there wasn’t room for it; and similar
howls happen almost daily. So there is less and
less room for the wharf-lumper, because the
places where he used to hive are being swallowed
up by business premises, and at the same time
there is more and more lumper. And the im-
passioned appeal of the Government to the
married lumper that he shall take in two single
lumpers to board doesn’t meet the case.
From the Oldest Inhabitant (and not an
ancient pub in it): —
The N.S.W. Government has decided to sell Brush
Farm, at Eastwood, the home of the Carpentarian lte-
formatory ; the Minister thinks the land is much too
valuable for the use it’s put to. There is a heap of old
historical associations about the place. Gregory Blax-
land, who came to N. S. Wales in 1804, certainly owned
it; and probably Barson Marsden held it before him. At
any rate, Marsden was the owner of a farm named “The
Bush ” or “ The Brush,” which he lent to the original
Rowland Hassall when he landed here from Tahiti
in the 'oo’s. Here all the details of the scheme
of Blue Mountain Exploration were threshed out
by Lawson and Blaxland, though the expedition
actually started from another farm owned by Blaxland
on the Cowpasture River. Dr. Forster, of the 50th Regi-
ment, married Elizabeth, the eldest child of Gregory
Blaxland. They went to Madras with the 50th, and there
a son, William, was born, in 1818. He arrived in Sydney
with his parents in 1829, and became Premier and, later,
Agent-General in London. His parents lived and died at
Brush Farm, and William Forster ended hiS days there.
Geolrge Barrington, the historic pickpocket, is buried on
the place ; a post and rail fence at one time marked the
grave.
NO APPEAL.
ALSO RAN : “ Don't refuse me absolutely,
Guenna! Reconsider it I Think it over! I
will wait.'"
THE HEIRESS: “Certainly not! All competitors
enter on the distinct understanding that my
decision is final."
Something seems to have gone wrong with
another “Historic Memorial’’—this time the
“ Sirius gun,” in Macquarie-place, Sydney. The
Sirius, alleged to be the first man-o’-war to enter
Port Jackson, left England in 1787 ; and the gun
was cast in 1788. So it is probable that the “his-
toric gun ” was never on board the Sirius, or, if it
was on board, then it wasn’t there when the vessel
made the historic entry to Port Jackson on
January 26, 1788.
w * * *
The Weary Ministry has been considering
the business of making Melbourne
an up-to-date port, and proposes
to build a new pier at Port
Melbourne, to fill up the low-
lying land around the Yarra
mouth with dredgings, to buy a
dredge, and to build one, two or
three barges, for which last pur-
pose a shipbuilding yard is to be
established. By-and-bye Weary
and Co. will even ponder whether
it would be unseemly or rash of
them to build a tug of their own.
The shipbuilding yard—power,
machinery, housing and all
included—is to cost only £ll,OOO,
so there is little fear of any
decent-sized steamships being
placed on the stocks there yet
awhile. Still, it is a beginning,
and there is some comfort in re-
membering that the big Newport
railway shops started in as small a way
30 years back.
“Locust ” : Hyde Park is the Academy
and Grove of Sydney’s old-age pensioner. There,
basking in the sun, the old men fight their battles
over again. Keen politicians these ; and many a
young political cub could learn a thing or two
about tactics and statesmanship from them. One
crowd haunts the vicinity of St. Mary’s Cathedral.
There is more sunshine on that side in the morn-
ing. In front of them looms the big cathedral,
and around them spreads the imposing panorama
0 f lif e _a wedding, with the white favors on the
cabmen’s whips; a christening, proud father and
happy mother; a funeral —sometimes all three
together, meeting in a kind of stream that
ba'bbles, “ Time was, time is, time will be” ; the
hearse jostling with the carriage, the white favors
contrasting with the black crape of the mutes ; joy
and grief and hope or despair mixed up together;
tho widow meeting the bride, the centenarian
following the newly christened baby into the
church. Not dull lives are these of the old
pioneers, who have earned their rest and pittance.
LFou”: The new Australian cable
service has shaken up the old syndicate, which is
scraping up wires from every sphere. Some of
the messages are fearfully excited. For instance,
this one from the Agk :
Rome, 11th January.—A sensational tragedy is re-
ported from Senercha, in the district of Avellino. While
a church service was in progress a man named Serafina
Donato entered the building and murdered his son with
a chopper, believing that the young man had murdered
his wife and the murderer’s father, who had opposed his
irregular mode of living.
It is clear that a man named Serafina Donato did
enter the church during service and murder his
son with a chopper. The cable also states that
he believed his son had murdered his wife. No
clue as to how he got the belief—whether he cul-
tivated it slowly for years and years and years,
and eventually ran his son down with the chopper,
or whether it flashed like an inspiration when he
found the wife’s murdered body lying about the
back yard—everything, cable report and all,
seems to have been untidy. Then the cable says
the man who entered the church with a chopper,
etc., believed the son had murdered his wife and
the murderer's father! Now, who murdered
which murderer’s father? Did the man who
entered the church and killed his son with
a chopper believe that the son he killed
with the chopper had previously murdered
himself, i.e., the man who entered the church and
killed his son with a chopper? Or was it the
father of the man who entered the church and
killed his son with a chopper whom the son had
allegedly murdered also? If it is the former,i.e.,
the man who entered the church and killed his
son, etc., who is referred to as the murderer’s
father, wasn’t it a bit inconsistent of the old man
to “ oppose his [evidently the son’s] irregular
mode of living,” seeing that he must have been a
bit irregular himself to stroll into a church and
kill his son with a chopper, particularly if he be-
lieved his son had already killed him?
■Jr * * *
Melbourne Argus had a “ scoop ” on Feb.
16. It was a column report of a meeting of about
1000 implement makers, who decided on a strike.
The Age had merely a “supplied” report. The
yarn is that the Argus man, who ordinarily looks
like a tailor’s fashion plate, put on his fishing
clothes and left off his collar and attended the
meeting. The meeting was lively, and the
reporter astutely shouted with the biggest crowd,
and voted for a strike, thus upholding the best
traditions of the democratic staff to which he
belongs. The editorial staff and proprietors—
who are not democratic—tell the yarn in the
Melbourne and Yoriek Clubs as one of the best
jokes in the Argus’s history, though exactly
what becomes of the Argus’s “ dignity ” isn’t too
plain. Still the Fat old paper has the satisfaction
of reflecting that on the only recent occasion when
it had a vote at a trade meeting it voted for the
strike that it professes to deplore.
“Kobbi”: I’m heartily sick of it. So I
beg to move a violent motion of condemnation
(staking the culprit to an ants’ nest will do)on the
man who—
1. Promises to do as well in the future as he did in the
past.
2. Promises to look after the interests of his own ward
in particular, and of the municipality in general (or the
Commonwealth, or the world, or the whole universe, as
the case may be).
3. Acts the goat by leading the newly-elected Mayor or
Speaker by the hand to the chair.
My daily dinner-wrap is full of these things. I
also second the above motion and carry it unani-
mously.
THE TUBE SKIRT AND THE
RAINY DAY.
Heavenly bliss and the cultivation of
brazen music are not, it seems, the sole objects of
the Salvation Army. It also appears that one of
its aims is to discourage the production of Army
babies. Anyhow, speaking at a Sabbath meeting,
the Army boss in Melbourne called for single men
and women to carry on the gospel of Blood and
Fire ; but if he couldn’t get enough of them, then
married couples with not more than two children.
Evidently the Army wants to secure a band of
soldiers, self-denying to the verge of self-mortih-
cation. Perhaps even they would give up the de-
lights of drink and tucker to live on the thoughts
of a future life. At any rate, they would become
exalted, and despise filthy lucre—which is a beau-
tiful trait to encourage when you are looking for
sweated labor.
THE HANGMAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It is impossible to estimate what crimes would be com-
mitted did not the' spectre of the gallows stalk before the
possible criminal. —Sydney D.T., JS/2/’lf.
Some men are modest, and some men their petty doings
sing.
I potter round and grease my ropes, and never say a
thing.
Yet I'm the saviour of the race, and Whiskers knows it
well 1
I keep a thousand men alive by sending one to Hell.
The blood would trickle through the streets and turn the
harbor red ;
The trams and taxi-cabs would go a-ploughing through
the dead,
And sober citizens each eve, about the hour for tea,
Be carried home with brains bashed out, if it were not
for me.
Folk walk about quite unconcerned, all dangers they
contemn —
The}' know a pleasant man o’ hemp is watching over
them.
But they no more would fearlessly about the city stride
If I should cease to draw the holt and lay the rope aside.
The worthy must be guarded well and sinners must be
hung.
I toil to save humanity while yet the day is young.
For nothing makes the villains pause and shiver where
they stand
Like visions of the hangman with his ear-knot in his
hand.
N.S.W.
WALTER OWALT.


Xo, 000, 000
rtabletsof sun»i
light Soap are
sold every week;
this is the high-
est possible proof
that Sunlight
up
.to expecta-
tions.
■mu imv
/
No. 67. GUARANTEED UNDER THE
"PURE FOOD ACT. 1908,"
BY LEVER BROTHERS LIMITED,
SYDNEY, N.3.W. No. 57.
FUNCTIONAL LIVER TROUBLES are for the most
part the outcome of too little exercise and too good
living. The simplest and best of all remedies is a wine-
glassful of “ Hunvadi Janos ” natural aperient water
taken before breakfast every second or third morning.*
If yon want something really good in the way
of razors or razor strops, buy the Diamond Edge brand,
the best that money can buy. Razors 7s. 6d. and 10s. (id.
each. Strops 6s. Sold only by the Sole Agent, T. Wild,
Vice-Regal Hairdresser, SO Sydney Arcade; entrance
from George or King Streets, Sydney.*
The “Change” Hat.
This hat should appeal
because of its small price,
and the fact that it can be
changed in appearance at
the wearer’s wish.
It is of pure soft Fur
Felt —the brim is
wide, and can be turned
up or down at any part;
the crown creased or dented
as you prefer.
The colors we have it
in are Mid Grey, Fawn
and Stone Brown.:
Price 12/6.
Posted 9d. extra; 1/3 Inter-State.
State size when ordering.
Peapes (SL Co. Ltd.,
“ MEN’S OUTFITTERS,”
309-311 George Street, Sydney.
Lost last week, in some yet-to-be explained
fashion, the Mcllwraith-McEaeharn cargo-carrier
New Guinea, which ran ashore in a fog under
Green Cape Lighthouse. She crashed on to the
rocky coast a few hundred yards from the lonely
cemetery which holds the scores of dead, known
and unknown, recovered from the sea when the
Ly-ee moon was thrown away on the same part of
the N.S.W. coast—known on the charts as
Disaster Bay. The New Guinea ran ashore in
broad daylight and jambed herself tight in a
crevice in the rocks. The Ly-ee-moon on a clear
night struck some distance from the land. It was
only a hundred feet or so ; but that was enough
to drown most of the passengers and crew. Had
the New Guinea not wedged herself as she did,
another horror would have been added to the his-
tory of the aptly-named bay. As it was, she re-
mained visible for a few days.
* * * *■
The present strike in the agricultural im-
plement shops in Melbourne is declared to be
wicked and un-British, because it is aimed against
" the freedom of the individual.” Yet the papers
which observe that superior tone can scarcely re-
strain their admiration for one of the employers
who forces every man in his shop to contribute a
certain amount to an accident fund, sometimes to
the extreme distaste of the contributor. But, of
course, this compulsion is not directed against
“the freedom of the individual.” If the great
dailies were asked to describe it, they would call
it “ treating the employees in a broad and pro-
gressive spirit.”
* * * *
THE RUDE AGE.
STOUT FEMALE PARTY : “ What inconsiderate
brutes! They might know we detest smoke.”
“T.F.N.” ; Re “ aeroplaning ” into wed-
lock. I met an old identity here recently. He
lias buried a missus or two. and now says “ he is
not agin’ marrying again, but doesn’t hold with
rushin’ into marriage before a man is fully
repaired for it.”
THE DEMOCRACY OF COSTUME.
“ They're asked us to go to their place for dinner .”
“Hang it! That means going home to dress.”
“ Oh, no. She said we could come just as we are.”
Like their white brothers, the camel-
drivers of Broken Hill have come to the conclusion
that they ought to have a bigger handful of the
good things of life, and have issued the following
ultimatum :
To the Merchants, Storekeepers, and Station Owners
in the Western District.
We, the undersigned camel carriers, have in meeting
unanimously determined that the following shall, for the
ensuing three years, be the rates of carriage from and to
Broken Hill or Torrowangee, that is to say [Here follow
the rates.]
We have further determined -
(1) That, in the event of any carrier accepting goods for
carriage at less than the above rates, he shall be excluded
from all camel camps.
(2) That, in the event of any merchant, storekeeper,
station owner, manager or agent employing any carrier
at less than the above rates, the merchant, storekeeper
or station will be left to deal with that carrier alone, and
none of the other carriers will hartdle or carry any goods
on his or its account on any terms whatever.
Dated at Broken Hill this 16th day of January, 1911.
Pougen, Mangau, Goolam, Abdul Satar, Said Abdul
Hale (for Fakeer Mohomed), Said Abdul Hak (for
Meer Kalam), Said Raman, Lakmere, Lakmere (for
Said Akbar), Lakmere (for Antie Ram), Said
Raman (for Sharp-Hastain), Jamrose, Khanzada, Nasir
Khan, Khan Radin, Notulla, Moosa Khan, Notulla
(for Young Adam Khan), Ahmed Khan, Rasull Khan,
Meer Dad, Moosa Khan (for Akbar Khan), Said Abdul
Hak, Mur John, Soorki, Adam Khan, Ahmed Shah, Raj
Willie, Hatta, Dill Morad, Said Goolamaydeen, Said Gool-
amaydeen (for Kassam), G. R. Khalick, Seyd Armed
Gooi.
Witness to the above : Moosa Khan.
And all the time the lean, grey camels are not
saying a word.
* * * *
“Bumble Bee”: “Adelaide’s” patriotic
yelp (B. 9/2/’ll) about
the “Whiteness” of the
Holy City would be more
valuable if it were more
accurate. I can show
“ Adelaide ” a Chinese
laundry in Rundle-street,
within 100yds. of the new
Grand Central Hotel,
where half a dozen Chows
and three white women
are kept busy the year
round. In the same block
lives a Chinese fruiterer
with his Chinese Wife and
five full-blooded yellow
youngsters. But the Hindu
is Adelaide’s worst streak.
I know one Soogee Bhag
who has two Australian
girls in his establishment,
and has three half-breeds
by one and four by his
other better-third. This
country wants white
women urgently ; but this
seems like Australia for
the Australians after- the
Asiatic has been supplied.
After a passage of over 70 days from Kobe,
the Jap exploring or sealing vessel, Kainau Maru,
turned into Wellington harbor (M.L.) recently to
take aboard provisions and coal, preparatory to
an alleged dash for the South Pole. It was a
wildly humorous visit while it lasted, and Well-
ington is now walking with a limp where it got its
leg pulled. The pressmen who boarded the
hooker were staggered to find that not a soul of
the ship’s company could speak English or, appar-
ently, any other language. They tried everybody
from the leader of the expedition to the cook’s
mate. They took turns about: “You spik Eng-
lish?” “Yousavee?” “ You go Pole ? ” “Heh,
John, whaffor ? ” “ Catchee seal, he’m ?” “Par-
lez vous Francais 1 ” “Pendente lite, what?”
“Nippon, Yokohama, geisha, Port Arthur,
waipcro— oh, go to blazes! ” The Asiatics
merely sat round and grinned. They didn’t
savee anything, and the pressmen went ashore
to hunt for an interpreter. In turns, the Japan-
ese Consul, the Chinese Consul, a British-Jap,
policemen, naval officers, coves and other blokes
were turned loose on the expedition, shook hands
with it, winked at it, offered it a long beer, talked
pidgin to it, cursed at it, and came away as wise
as ever. But Wellington had great faith, and
despite the fact that the ship’s log was
written up in English, refused to believe
that a bluff was being rigged on the city’s
credulity. Yet, after the Japs had sailed,
it was discovered from a local bookstall that
some of the officers had bought a. stock of
English novels, magazines and newspapers on the
eve of departure, and had shown a perfect com-
mand of the language, both spoken and written.
The reason of the bluff is not clear. Perhaps the
little men from the tree-tops did not waut Doug-
las Mawson to know more of their plans than he
knows already ; perhaps they are not going to the
Pole at all, and hated to tell a lie about it; per-
haps they are going to protected sealing grounds,
and hated to tell the truth about it; perhaps it
was all a Japanese joke. And the point of a
Japanese joke is hard to find until you sit on it.
Then it is generally too late to laugh.
“ Mahlstick’s” ramble :
The Melbourne Public Library has a good oil painting'
of the first Government House in the cit3 r . It was a two-
room crib, occupied by Superintendent Lonsdale, just
a hint, and stood far away to the south-east, near the
Yarra, westward of where the Friendly Societies’Gardens
are now. The hut existed till about 40 years ago, so a
good many have seen it. The painting shows the mili-
tary camp away behind the hut on the rise—a large circu-
lar tent for the officers, and smaller ones for the soldiers.
A vision of distant Macedon, to the north-west, fixes the
location. As a fact, the mount is not visible from the
place; still it contributes to the toneof a sympathetic
picture.
* * * *
“Skyscrapers in Sydney” was the title of a
daily paper article of a recent Saturday, and it was
accompanied by a picture of the centre of the city
as it is to be in a year or two
—a place with a skyline like
scattered teeth in the mouth
of Death, or like the tomb-
stones of kings spread
casually in a cemetery for
dogs. It is a strange, weird
affair that a State with only
about four people to the
square mile should be so con-
gested in one corner that it
is driven to skyscrape in
order to find room ; but that
has happened. The policy
of dragging everything to
Sydney is one cause. Another
is the crazy backwardness
which has left the specially
congested city without over-
head railways, underground
railways, street level rail-
ways, bridges over the harbor,
tunnels under the harbor, or
even decently commodious
streets to run trams, ’buses,
carts, motor-cars, people and
terriers in. Still, if Sydney
must skyscrape it should at
least do it decently and in
Order. And it isn’t decent,
also it is most disorderly, to
have a 20-storey building
arising from the midst of 16
three-storey humpies. They
represent an average of four
storeys apiece, and it would
be much more tidy to elevate
the lot to four or five or
even six storeys than to have
one ungainly monster stand-
ing up like an improved
statement in a wilderness of
futile rejoinder. One of the
objects of graduated land
taxation is to compel the
owner of land to put it to the
best use. The individual who
grazes one sheep where the land would carry four
doesn’t make the best use of his property, nor
does the one who grazes an old two-storey store
or one-storey shop where there is business for a
six-storey block. And in one sense he is the worse
offender of the pair, for he destroys the symmetry
of things, and is a blot on the landscape, while the
big country landlord isn’t a blot—only a curse.
The Wesfcralian State Income Tax De-
partment is a wildly hilarious organisation.
Recently it issued final notices to about 1100
citizens who had not paid income tax. Eight
hundred of them paid at one end of the office,
while the Department was issuing summonses at
the other end. Then 800 mad citizens rushed in
with 800 receipts, and the Department looked like
the ancient idiot it is, and apologised. It did not,
however, apologise to one Kearney, a money-
gatherer who had a tribute on the Bullfinch Pro-
prietary. Being busy, lie didn’t rush in, but
simply rested on his receipt; so the Department
got judgment, and now he has to pay again on the
judgment and wait until the Department is ready
to give him back the money he handed over on the
first payment. Kearney’s views on the State
Income Tax Department are unfit for publication.
“ Blue Blazes ” : Of all the schemes and
other methods to advertise a newspaper I think
the Times (weekly edition) possesses the one which
should collect the bakery. It takes the form of a
supply agency, and has been running a little over
18 months for the benefit of readers abroad. Re-
ferring to the matter, the paper says it is in the
matter of small orders that the supply agency
helps readers most; and it proceeds to give ex-
amples thus :
Half a yard of material to match pattern of dress which
the sender encloses with the remark; “It must be an
exact match, as it is to repair an evening gown acci-
dentally torn at a ball and cannot be matched here.”
“ A bottle of perfume, if still made; it used to be sold
by a shop a few doors up on the left of —— St. 25
years ago when I was at Cambridge. Can you find it for
me?”
“ A birthday gift for my sister to be delivered on
I leave the selection to you.”
“ Please buy a good bicycle and have it delivered to
my boy Ralph at school at He is rather particu-
lar about such things, so please see that it is up-to-date.”
I propose to send these few orders myself during
coronation time:—
One bunch of tripe, to be forwarded to the cable agent
of the Australian dailies per four hours. Please get it as
greasy as you can. We like it that way.
An alarm .clock hearing the motto, “ Teinpus Fugit
to be delivered to Prime Minister Andy Fisher on his
arrival at the Hotel Cecil, or wherever he is loafing in
London. I don’t care how small the clock is, but I want
an alarm that will raise Sheol and the Devil’s aunt.
One secluded morgue for Premier Weary, so that he
can have a real good rest.
The address of a three-ball emporium unknown to Joe
Ward. Kindly break it to him gently.
Buy a powerful telescope for Premier McGowen to
enable him to see the map of Australia. Also the slowest
'bus in London ; he has missed every one that has come
his way so far.
And two drinks for yourself. Give the Englishman who
seri es you 2d.
Adelaide has been having a batch of quaint
law incidents. The one of most general interest
occurred in the High Court, which sat to try a
couple of motor-car firms that had swindled the
Customs. After both had admitted everything,
Justice O’Connor rubbed it in—they were “not
only robbing the Customs, hut every person who.
honestly carries on similar business.” The only.-
question was how much to make the fine in the
case of one offender who was in a small way of
business ; and the Court solemnly adjourned to
let him prepare a statement showing the Judge
how much he had got ! The same day, an hotel-
keeper appealed against a conviction for allowing;
unlicensed barmaids (a domestic servant and a.
visitor) to help in the bar during a rush. After-
expensive lawyers had argued two distinct audit
important reasons why the conviction should he-
upset, Justice Homburg curtly threw out hot hi
points as worthless—and then upset itonquite
another ground which he had discovered himself..
Comedy ceased with the trial of a young Common-
wealth civil servant for embezzlement. TheP.M.
told the police they had not made out a case.
Then the accused spoke up and said he had taken
the money, and did not propose to wriggle out of
his punishment on any technicality ; so he in-
sisted on making a confession and being sent on
for trial.
BALLADE OF THE COTTER AND THE EVENING
BLOODSTAIN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It is stated, on the indisputable evidence of the gauge,
that the Cotter River is running- at the rate of 150,000
gallons a day. This must he unpleasant reading for the
“stinking fish brigade,” who were so exuberantly men-
dacious some time ago concerning the Yass-Canberra
site Now the tumbling torrent of the Cotter
laughs derisively at its disgruntled critics.—Evening
News, Sydney.
The face of the land is streaming wet;
The clouds have wept for many a day ;
We look at the sky each morn. “ Not yet!
When is it going to clear away ? ”
Very few asses are game to bray :
Only one idiot—cheery, vast,
Under a brolly is heard to say :
“ The Federal ditch is wet at la9t ! ”
The summer cottages are “ To Let ” ;
No picnics gambol by bush or bay ;
Bookmakers huddle indoors and bet;
Cricketers go to the matinee ;
Farmers and parsons for sunshine pray !
Rain-clouds travel on every blast.
Hark to the note of a cheerful jay :
“ The Federal ditch is wet at last! ”
Last Hoot.
Stick to the X where the body lay—
It chills our blood and we stand aghast!
But do not cough in your dampness ; “ Yea !
The Federal ditch is wet at last! ”
N.B.W.
TERRY BILL TRAGYDER.
The COAL BOAT.
south, ko Sydney,/lopHv and bach again.
Tloo'casHe south ko Sydney, Reg’lar as a krairv,
SouHi a bloomin' submarine, /forth She's fly in' lighh
First a gritty sea-ukashed Blok, Wexk a soarin' kike
: ff\e blindin' Soufherltes she dips her snouk mko,
fair layin douln an' §poamn 35 She cheuls her slou) u)ay
An’ n/e’re Grimy, Wet, an' cursin’; Wonderin' idhen She'll Go,
/lokin’ u)ell the clankin chorus ok all Her pumps belou)
Oackia pound Ike Pork o' ni§hhs, Sepapm’off Her pamh
Grih,an' Lansua§e To paralyse a Sainh
Art Her clinches clatterin'allyour> ulakch beloul,
To sleep aink necessary-&ek Her clear an'Go.
jSjjn' Here §roa)m old and cranky like oup old leaky ApK.,
Till He meek one blow) too many an' melk mko the DaPk..
. But We’pe handin on It) Tucker an' kfopin*/or» rKe Beik,
flakin' money Tor rive OiOnery, ifi' r Chancin' all tke Resk
FRED NOT[?]


ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER & CO.,
Circular Quay (East), Sydney ; and 34 Queen Street, Melbourne,
SPECIALISE IN
Light Tramway Material, Gas Engines and Suction Gas
Plants, "Robey” Portable Steam Engines, Traction Engines, etc.
CAPE EXPLOSIVES WORKS, LTD.
Gelignite, blasting Gelatin, Dynamite, Detonators and Fuse supplied.
nr
NO CONNECTION WITH ANY COMBINE
Special Coal Mining Explosives.
NOYES BROS. (SYDNEY), LTD,, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney,
(Sole Agents for N.S.W.).
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Mutual Lifk and Citizens’ Assurance
Co., Ltd., which is the Citizens’ Life Association with the
M.L.A. and the Australian Widows’ Fund grafted on
to it: —
Ordinary Lifk Department.
Added
Written to
Dee., Income. Claims. Expenses. Off. Funds.
1599.. £124,841 £22,276 £18,726 £375 £83,464
1600.. 145,531 41,252 17,891 86,388
1901.. 168,520 34,282 26,584 107,654
1902.. 197,424 34,492 27,533 245 135,154
1908.. 217,062 39,472 29,766 147,824
1904.. 239,820 58,450 31,894 1,531 147,945
1905.. 255,130 64,962 33,545 20,572 136,051
1996.. 278,713 62,267 34,867 395 181,184
1907.. 299,001 83,803 24,190 12,925 178,083
(The amalgamation with the M.L.A. took place at
this point.)
1908.. 667,435 274,307 74,674 157,054 161,400
1909.. 692,089 321,484 58,392 1,745 310,468
(Widows’ Fund came in here.)
1910.. 941,605 481,526 84,252 2,524 373,303
It is put that way to preserve uniformity. But there is
a better way. Previous to 1908 those profits to which
the co. was entitled for guaranteeing certain benefits
were included with the bonuses—“ surrenders and
bonuses ’’—and could not therefore be separated from
the claims. The office has steadily improved its methods;
and among the improvements is the separation of this
cash bonus paid to shareholders. This bonus should be
reckoned among the expenses; therefore the history of
the past three years can be set out in this way :
Written To Re-
Income. Claims. Expenses. Off. serves.
1908.. £667,435 £262,576 £86,405 £157,054 £161,400
1909.. 692,089 308,232 71,644 1,746 310,468
1910.. 941,605 464,638 101,140 2,524 373,303
When the co. distributes £4 as bonus or profit among
policy-holders it is entitled to £1 for itself. In
return it gives, among other things, a contract
backed by the called and uncalled capital of the co. The
paid capital is £67,459 and the callable capital £132,541.
The shareholders appoint the management. Their busi-
ness is to make profits; and, as remarked just now, in
making £1 for themselves they must make £4 for the
policy-holders. In a mutual office the policy-holders get
all the profits. On the other hand, there is in the mutual
office no body of shareholders keenly interested in making
profits. It is undoubtedly better for the policy-holders
to get 100 per cent, of the profits than 80 per cent, of
them. Given two offices, a mutual office and one organised
on the same basis as this, with equally good and economi-
cal management, the public would therefore be better off i n
the mutual office. The whole point is whether the thirst
for personal profit is or is not likely to produce more
economical management, and thus save from the waste
as much as or more than the co. is entitled to collect.
Certainly, either by design or by accident, remark-
able economies have been made, and a very efficient organ-
isation has been developed ; and it is undoubtedly more
reasonable to put them down to design than to accident.
Even counting in the bonus paid to the co., the expense
rate last year, calculated on total income, was £lO 14s.
9d. per cent. How good that rate is may best be judged by
the fact that the Australian Widows' Fund, a mutual con-
cern with a first-class reputation, was, after 39 years, un-
able to show an expense rate better than 19 per cent. And
its management saw no possible way of reducing it
materially. It was no doubt this hopelessness which
produced the biggest event in this co.’s history for the
vear. Three years ago the M.L.A. found itself in much
the same position as the Widows’ Fund. Its respecta-
bility was undoubted; but respectability didn’t bring
business—that had to be bought at a cost which was
actually unfair to the policy-holders. Now, even an in-
surance manager has spasms of conscience. It is all very
well for him to say that his, of course, is the best office ;
but when he is spending £2O of the policy-holders’ money
to do what others are getting done for £lO or less, and
>vhen he sees no hope of doing it for less than the £2O,
there is really only one thing for him as an honest man
to do if he wants to advance the interests of his policy-
holders ; and that thing is to attempt to somehow get
them the advantage of the cheaper business. When,
in order to get the advantage of cheaper business, the
M.L.A. threw in its lot with the Citizens’, the act at any
rate established the latter’s respectability and sound-
ness. The Widows’ Fund transfer was thus no doubt
simplified. The old manager and directors of the Widows’
Fund put the consequences very plainly : “ Since the
date of the union with the M.L.C., the Australian Widows’
Fund share of the surplus for the nine months from that
date to December 31, 1910, amounted to £48,760, being
at the rate of £65,013 per annum, a rate which would give
the Australian Widows’ Fund policyholders £325,000 over
a five years’ period, while the largest total for such a
period the A.W.F. ever distributed was £142,906.” And
the former directors of the M.L.A., now trustees for the
old policy-holders in that section, with three years’ ex-
perience behind them, don’t hesitate to say that the
wonderfully-improved results are not accidental: “The
trustees are convinced that the co-operative constitution
of the co. must ensure its continued progress along sound
lines.” Things have changed with the Citizens’. There
was a time when, if its management saw anybody coming,
it seemed to be taken for granted that he had a brick in
his hand. Nowadays it comes almost as natural to it to
expect that, if he doesn’t come with a sheaf of praises, he
will at least go away leaving one behind him.
The co. no doubt laid the foundations of its
success on its Industrial business. It cut into that then
almost untouched field, and was thus able to get a big
start and a wide advt. And, though others have come in,
it continues to make progress—though nowadays it is
comparatively slow progress :
Industrial Life Department.
Expenses Added
(including Written to
Dec., Income. Claims. Dividends). Off. Funds.
1900 .. £176,406 £49,398 £98,681 £228 £28,099
1901 184,112 43,649 99,756 42 40,665
1902 !. 188,688 41,707 110,234 36,747
1903 .. 102,491 53,543 103,860 35,088
1904 .. 201,166 58,169 89,596 53,401
1905 .. 199,426 51,095 84,039 8577 55,715
1906 .. 205,910 46,757 75,251 849 83,053
1907 .. 235,086 55,770 82,820 96,496
1908 .. 217,371 98,068 84,268 1734 33,301
1909 . 227,299 74,829 98,522 4746 49,202
1910 .. 243,286 74,108 105,330 2755 61,093
One can’t consider an insurance which absorbs£43 ss. sd.
per cent, in expenses with gladness. The people who
take this class of insurance are those who can least
afford to waste coin ; and yet there is a fearful waste
here. No doubt Industrial business has its virtues.
This co., for instance, takes ordinary policies for as
little as £5O; and apparently every notice it sends to
the Industrial policy-holder carries an imitation to him
to come in out of the wet and join the much cheaper
Ordinary branch. In any comparison of the expense rate
of offices, by the way, the size of the policies ought to be
taken into account.
Through the amalgamation with the Widows’
Fund the nucleus of a separate Accident Branch was
obtained. There had previously been policies involving
accident risks; and these have been transferred. The
new branch had an income of £20,098 ; it paid £5020 in
claims, and spent £6500 in expenses. It began with re-
serves of £12,304 ; after providing for various contingen-
cies, £4479 remains—presumably profit at the disposal of
the co. ,
Solvency is the first consideration in a life office.
The policy-holder wants to be assured that his money
will be there when his widow calls for it. The fact that,
if it is not there, the shareholder in this co. will be called
upon to put it there to the extent of £200,000, natur-
allv makes the shareholder very careful as to the
securities he drops the money into. Hence the
large holding of public securities—and the propor-
tion used to be much larger than the present
46-60 per cent, before the mortgages and similar
securities of the M.L.A. and Widows’ Fund were added
to the pile. On past experience, no doubt the great duik
of new funds will go into the securities that have the
credit of the whole State behind them. For the same
reason—the liability of shareholders—a very low rate of
future interest has been assumed; and that involves
strong reserves, which constitute the best guarantee,
not only that the widow won’t have to knock at a closed
door, but that future bonuses will be fat.
* * * *
N.S.W. Fresh Food and Ice Co. (Sydney):—
Writ- Added Nomi-
ten to Re- nal Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
June, 1904.. £6,311 Nil £6311
Written off: Capital, £73,384 ; Reserves, £44,909 16,42/
Dec 1904 6 011 6 p.c. = £5503 508 16,93 a
June', 1905.. 3,977 P Nil £l3OB 2669 19,604
Dec., 1905.. 7,127 8 p.c.= 3669 3408 23,062
June, 1906.. 6,999 8 „ „ 3669 3330 26,392
Dee., 1906 . 7,897 8 „ „ 3669 4228 30,620
June, 1907.. 7,546 10 „ „ 4586 2960 33,a80
Dec., 1907.. 6.257 6 „ ~ 2752 99 0486 37,016
June, 1908.. 5,635 6 ~ ~ 2752 99 2784 39,800
Dec., 1908.. 4,996 6 „ „ 2752 2244 42,044
June, 1909.. 6,458 6 „ „ 2752 3/06 45,750
Dec., 1909.. 4,627 6 .. 2752 1875 47,625
June, 1910.. 12,230 12 ~ ~ 5504 6726 54,351
Dee., 1910.. 12,125 12 ~ „ 5504 6621 60,972
Very close up to the top of that table will be found a
remark which is worth remembering—“ Written off : Capi-
tal, £73,384 ; Reserves, £44,909.” It means that at one
fell swoop £118,293 came off the valuation of the assets.
At the end of 1903 “freeholds, leaseholds, property,
plant, goodwill, etc.,” had climbed up to £214,291.
Richardson and Wrench and others made valuations, and
those items shrivelled to £97,078. Some of the shrinkage
no doubt represented goodwill; but most of it appears
to have been depreciation which should have been written
off from time to time, but wasn’t; and it suggests that
depreciation in this business may be heavy and rapid. It
doesn’t appear that even now anything is written off to
cover depreciation ; but “renewals, etc.,” are provided
for. Whether they fully cover depreciation isn’t at all
certain. The directors seem to have some doubt about
the matter themselves, wherefore they are build-
ing up a reserve for “ renewals, public risk and con-
tingencies,” as well as a depreciation fund —though the
practical difference between a renewal fund and
a depreciation reserve isn’t large enough to be
seen without a good pair of glasses. Assuming, then, that
some of these two reserves —now totalling £39,295 —are
required to cover actual depreciation, it follows that the
reserves mentioned in the table are not all real reserves,
and likewise that some of the profit is not true profit.
What deduction should be made from the disclosed
profits and reserves this paper does not know. Still this
small compilation is significant :
June, ’O4. June, ’lO. Dec., ’lO.
Liquid assets (incl. stock) .. £42,267 £58,750 £64,880
Liabilities .. .. .. 31,188 16,204 16,410
Surplus .. ..£11,079 £42,546 £48,470
If the co.’sproperty, plant and other “ fixed” assets are
worth only as much now as they were 5J years ago, then,
in addition to the dividends it has paid, the co. has made
£37,391, which it has in cash, stock, and book debts. Or,
putting the platter another way, the co. has bought and
paid for all new property, plant and fixtures added or
renewed during the past 5£ years, and is still £37,391 to
the good after paying the dividends. The co. has no
doubt been doing unusually well. First, Sydney has been
extraordinarily prosperous, and a pound of sausages has
been neither here nor there to it; also, the F.F. and I.
has extended its eating-house business, and this is a time
when even the Father of Fourteen declines to take, a bit
of lunch in his pocket. Also, more important still, fat
stock are plentiful, the export trade active, and the freez-
ing- and cold-storage business consequently brisk; and
good times have made it easy to put ice up 10s. per ton
and keep it up. When those things change, the look of
this co.’s figures will change, too.
■* * * *
Queensland Meat Export and Agency Co.: —
Added Nomi-
Dividends and Written to Re- nal Re-
Nov., Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1899.. 47,340 10 p.c. = 11,474 35,866 88,726
1900.. 75,050 10 „,, 11,474 63,576 152,302
1901.. 39,430 10 „ ~ 11,474 28,006 180,308
1902.. 72,308 20 ~ „ 22,949 49,359 229,667
Forfeited capital .. .. - - 240 229,907
1903.. 52,793 10 p.c. = 11,474 41,319 271,226
Loss.
1904.. 9,472 Nil 261,754
Profits. „ „„„
1905 . 20,330 Nil 20,330 282,084
1906.. 22,206 Nil 102,056 202,234
Loss.
1907.. 1,647 Nil 19,799 180,788
Profits. „ „„„
1908.. 7,913 31 p.c. = 6,885 79,893 101,923
1909.. 19,863 8 „ ~18,339 1,890 101,55/
1910.. 24,007 10 „,, 22,924 1,083 102,640
The Q.M.E. has a bit to answer for. Robert Philp (now
its chairman) got into the co. ; and the co. got into
Gulf properties at the right moment; and the ex-
traordinary success of this and other way-out ven-
tures has turned “Bob’s” attention more and more
to the back country. Which partly explains the
Far Western linking-up railway ; for, though the voice in
connection with that boomstering proposal was the
voice of Wullie, the hand was the hand of Bob. The
cattle stations which this co. bought were Carpentaria
Downs, Forest Home, Magoura, and one since sold ; and
some or all of them were previously held by men who
sniffed better profits in sheep further south, and are said
not to have repented—which (in view of this co.’s profits)
is a hint as to the fortunes there have been in sheep
lately. There doesn’t seem to have been much in the
meat-export part of the business. For 1909 it was said
that live stock were too dear in Australia to allow of
profitable purchase and export ; for the past year, after a
good start, the trouble over nodules in beef spoiled the
co.’s expected harvest. All through, in fact, nieat-
export has been a poor thing to depend upon for a
crust. Drought not only stopped supplies while it was
raging, but kept prices too high for years afterwards ;
and all the while there was heavy depreciation to provide
for. Nowadays, as a meat-grower as well as a meat-
packer, the co. has a better chance to win. If live stock
are too high-priced to buy and pack, then as a breeder
and seller of live stock the co. can get the high price in
the local market. If, on the other hand, it has to sell
its stock for little, it is pretty certain to be able to
also buy for little and make a profit out of
the export business. Certainly it is quite possi-
ble for a drought to happen in Australia, involving
heavy losses to the co. as a grower, at a time when frozen
and packed meats were cheap in foreign parts. That
couldn’t be so, no doubt, if the world depended on Aus-
tralia for its meat; but it doesn’t. This, compiled from
Weddel and Co.’s report, shows where Britain got its
foreign dead meat from last year :
Australia. M.L. S. America.
Mutton, carcases .. 2,723,148 1,991,115
Lamb, do 1,496,660 3,416,359 515,048
Beef (frozen) qrs. .. 533,598 344,048 Vtno'ioi
„ (chilled) qrs. .. 3,844 1,593,181
The Q.M.E. went into debt pretty deeply to buy the pro-
perties mentioned above) but the total liabilities have
now been reduced to £74,770, including drafts against
consignments afloat; and the unsold products total
£73 216, while stores, book debts and cash amount to
£55!085. It seems certain that depreciation has also been
written off severely ; and generally a most remarkable
change has taken place in the position and outlook.
Heavy losses may, however, still be made; for the co.
may strike a time when, on top of big losses on its own
stations, it may not for the same reason be able to buy
stock for export, except at a price which will show a loss
on that branch of the business, too. It is a gamble
with the co. throwing persistent sixes at present.
V * * *
The Wellington Gas Co. (M.L.)
Net To Re- Re*
Dec., Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1904 .. 10 p.c. =£12,349 £34,871
1905 £29,242 10 „ „ 12,457 £16,785 51,656
1906 .. 18,788 10 „ „ 12,457 6,331 57,987
1907 .. 26,26 S 10 „ ~ 12,457 13,811 /1.798
Premiums on new shares .. 2,099
1908 .. 14,299 10 p.c. = 12,561 1./38 75,635
Premiums on new shares .. 8,807
1909 .. 17,151 10 p.c. = 14,911 2,240 86,682
Premiums on new shares .. 2(2 86,054
1910 .. 17,998 10 p.c. = 16,410 1,588 88,542
Profits have been as uneven as little Willie s head after
mother has done the barbering herself. A few years ago
large sums were in the habit of dropping into the pot
without mentioning who sent them or what they were
sent for or what they were doing before they were sent.
Probably they were funds provided for contingencies
which didn’t arrive. Latterly things have been going
along more evenly, though it seems that something is
still being put to undisclosed reserves. At any rate the
directors mention this year that “£5194 has been ex-
pended out of revenue on extensions, repairs and main-
tenance, and £3354 has been written off for deprecia-
tion.” This isn’t, however, as explicit as it might be
Has £5194 been spent in addition to the £3354 '
Revenue written off by gas cos. against depre-
ciation usually is put into extensions or renewals ,
but in this case it looks as though something be-
yond the allowance for depreciation has been spent. The
matter ought to be made clearer. If £3354 is a fair cover
for depreciation, then anything beyond that which is put
into extensions is really undisclosed profit, and the
amount is a hidden reserve. According to the Profit and
Loss account the co. has moved along this way :
1904. 1908. 1909. 1910.
Sales and other income .. £58,925 £85,542 £83,709 £89,214
Manufacture, repairs and
all charges .. .. 45.764 71,243 66,558 71,216
£13,161 £14,299 £17,151 £17,998
The “all charges” include amounts written off. In
running the eye along the “ sales ” line, it
should be remembered that new capital has been
got in ; at the end of 1904 the paid capital was
£124,570, whereas now it is £164,292. Still, even
taking that into account, the increase in revenue has
been very solid indeed, notwithstanding the competition
of the municipally-owned electric light and power works.
Further, notwithstanding that competition, the 10 per
cent. div. seems to be comfortably earned. And “com-
fortably ” in such acasemeans not only that there is a sub-
stantial margin to go to visible reserves, but also that fair
provision is made for renewalsand replacements. Certainly
the 10 per cent, doesn’t quite mean 10per cent, allround,
because £11,178 of the reserves consists of premiums
paid on shares ; but that wouldn’t bring the average down
to 9J per cent. The other reserves are mainly formal
reserve fund and a fund for works extensions. The co.
owes £50,000 on debentures and £39,210 to consumers
(received on guarantee deposit); and on December 31 it
had £18,832 in more or less liquid form, apart from
stocks. #
Manly Gaslight and Coke Co. (N.S..W): —
Writ- To
ten Re- Re'-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1902 ..£1497 7 per cent. = £lO5O £4OO £47 £285
1903 .. 1445 7£ „ „ 1125 400 205
1904 .. 1830 8 ~ „ 1200 400 230 435
1905 .. 2093 8 ~ ~ 1200 650 243 678
£l2OO dropped into Reserves without remark 1878
1906 .. 1638 9 per cent. = 1498 140 2018
1907 .. 1969 9 „ ~1639 330 2348
1908 .. 2454 9£ „ „ 1964 490 2838
1909 .. 2273 10 „ „ 2566 2545
Premiums on new shares .. .. 1054 3599
1916 .. 3219 10 per cent. = 3195 24 3623
Tub Bulletin won’t feel hurt if its best friend refuses to
take some of these figures seriously. It doesn’t take
them seriously itself. If it did it would speak most
severely to a co. which, in the height of a boom, put
nothing at all to reserves one, year andlonly a poor little
£24 the next year. Apparently, the co. doesn’t
take the accounts very seriously itself either. Says this
year’s Profit and Loss account: “ By Balance, December 31,
1909, £1440 16s. 2d. ; Less amount appropriated for Divi-
dends and Depreciation, £1372 11s. 6d.—£6B 4s. Bd.”
Now, as the directors’report I for 1909 will show, not a
penny of that was “ appropriated for depreciation ” ; the
whole of the £1372 11s. 6d. went into the shareholders’
pockets. However, this is a small matter; it merely
suggests a habit of putting things down promiscuously.
The larger matter is that “ manufacture, distribution,
rents, rates and taxes, renewals, lamp-lighting, deprecia-
tion, management, etc.,” are all lumped into one
item. There is absolutely no way of finding
out even approximately what part of the total
is represented by “depreciation, etc.” Under cover
of that item, the management may be stuffing
thousands of pounds into new works ; on the other hand,
it may be putting by so little that the depreciation is
greater than the renewals, etc. Following the former
policy, the management might understate the real profit;
in the other case, the real profit would be overstated.
Now, which of them, if either, is it? A comparison may
hfilP Ua ’ 1902. 1908. 1909. 1910.
Capital .. .. £15,000 £22,500 £28,750 £37,475
Liabilities .. 2,390 2,196 8,953 5,680
Fixed assets .. 15,848 22,852 35,019 39,050
Other assets .. 2,753 6,602 9,390
Sales .. .. 4,417 8,624 10,115 11,956
Thus in 1902 the fixed assets (land, machinery, mains,
etc.) earned 28 per cent, of their book value in sales and
other revenue. In 1908 the earnings had increased to 38
per cent. After that, however, there was a shrinkage,
and for the past two years the gross earnings have been
only about 30 per cent, per annum. Possibly some of the
new' capital has not been earning revenue all the time,
otherwise the one thing to be deduced from these figures
would be that either not a very great amount of profit
has been pushed away into works, or the more recent
works are not earning very big revenue. On outside ap-
pearances the co. ought to be on the giddiest height of
affluence. And so it may be. Ail that can be said is that
the figures don’t support the idea that it is a Himalaya,
though it may be an Alp or a Kosciusko.
* * * *
The Launceston Gas Co. (Tasmania)
Dividends and Written To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves.
Dec., 1903.. £1584 4 p.c. = £lO5O £534 £6641
June, 1904.. 1403 4 „ „ 1050 353 6994
Dec., 1904.. 1655 4 „ ~ 1050 605 7599
June, 1905.. 1315 4 ~ ~ 1050 £5OO '364
Dec.j 1905.. 1147 4 ~ „ 1050 97 7461
June, 1906.. 1134 4 „ „ 1050 84 7045
Dec. 1906 1550 4 „ ~ 1050 500 8045
June, 1907.. 1143 4 „ „ 1050 309 7829
Dec., 1907.. 1743 4 ~ „ 1050 800 7722
June, 1908.. 1590 4 „ „ 1050 200 340 8062
Dec., 1908.. 1561 4 „ ~ 1050 250 261 8323
June, 1909.. 1769 4 „ „ 1050 200 519 8842
Dec., 1909.. 1520 4 „ ~ 1062 200 258 9100
June, 1910.. 1318 4 „ „ 1062 300 9056
Dec., 1910.. 1377 4 „ ~ 1062 200 115 9171
This co. hasn’t a coalfield handy to help it; on the other
hand, it has a municipal electric light and power scheme
to compete against, and that light and power are cheaply
generated at a neighboring waterfall. Between the good
thing that it hasn’t got and the bad thing that it has got
the co. drags along very poorly; and the shareholders’
cut is all the poorer and more uncertain because there is
a debenture debt carrying, apparently, 5 per cent, in-
terest. After paying for renewals and an occasional ex-
tension of plant, etc., the co. can’t lay much by. This
shows the trend of five years’ history
Dec., 1905. Dec., 1910.
Liabilities.. .. .. £38,525 £37,973
Liquid assets .. .. 4,718 5,672
Deficit . £33,807 £32,301
Thus the co. has only lopped £506 off its liabilities in five
years after providing for the poor little div. and paying
for renewals, and extensions ; and the extensions haven’t
apparently amounted to much, considering that the half-
year’s revenue from gas is only £7Ol greater than it was
five years back.
* * * *
Brennan’s Amphitheatre, Ltd. —This new co.
was wolfed in Sydney last week ; and within 24 hours £1
shares were selling at 255. Capital is £lOO,OOO, in £1
shares, as follows : 30,000 to the public, 60,000 to James
Brennan, and 10,000 in reserve. Brennan takes no cash
directly, but sells the Amphitheatre music hall in Castle-
reagh-street to the co. for £22,650. According to
the prospectus, “ this land is easily worth £5OO per
foot, and the buildings £14,000, making a total of
£51,600.” Apart from that the vendor has no tangible
assets : the other things to be transferred are leases,
rights-of-purchase, and goodwill. No accountant’s certi-
ficate or balance-sheet accompanies the prospectus; but it
sets out that “during the past three years, from Aug.,
1907, to Sept., 1910, the profits of the Sydney theatre
averaged £7OOO per annum, and since this period £lO,OOO
per annum.” The vendor has a lease with only 18 months to
run in Melbourne ; but land (with hotel) has been bought
in Bourke-street for £lO,OOO, and it is proposed to spend
£20,000 on a new hall. The capital available will be
£30,000; the outlay will be £22,650 for the Sydney
and £30,000 for the Melbourne premises. So the co.
will start with a mortgage debt of at least
£22,650. Profits are estimated at £22,624 a year.
This would show a very big return on capital—practically
25 per cent. These figures as to profits are, however,
only estimates. The annual average Sydney profit for
three years up to Sept, last was £7OOO. Since then (four
months, including the Christmas season) they have been
at the rate of £lO,OOO per annum. And, on that slender
basis, down goes £lO,OOO into the statement of estimated
revenue. The Gaiety Theatre has been “ showing a small
profit after allowing £35 per week for rent, despite its
unwholesome surroundings.” Interest and upkeep in
connection with the new premises will amount to at least
£35 per week ; so the rent won’t be saved. The vendor,
nevertheless, estimates to receive £7OOO from the new
theatre—and that goes into the list too. All these figures
may be realised j for there is no doubt that an established
vaudeville business is highly profitable. But the investor
will see that he has not much solid foundation to work
on. The provisional directors are J. Brennan (governing
director), A. B. Davies (solicitor), and G. T. Eaton
(architect). . # #
Paris House, Ltd.—Formed last week with a
capital of £lB,OOO, this co. will carry on the Sydney cate
where vou can eat and drink more expensively—and pro-
bablv better—than anywhere else in Australia. The ven-
dors'get 3000' shares, 10,000 are offered to the public, and
6000 are reserved. Of the £lO,OOO put up by the public
the vendors take £7500. Yet, though that much is being
given for the business, there is nothing in the prospectus
to show that the proprietor has been making a penny of
profit. All indeed that the auditors’ certificate shows is
that the turnover for 1910 was £38,267, and the expenses,
exclusive of cost of provisions, wines, etc., were £6505.
This is much the same as estimating the cost of a
house exclusive of bricks, stone, timber and iron. The
most natural assumption is that the business has shown
poor results, and that the co. must look for its profits to
“proper management and the elimination of waste.
The auditors’report runs: “Based on the figures above
estimated, the net profits for the years 1909 and 1910,
provided the management has been conducted on reason-
ably economical lines, should approximate : 1909, £5720 ;
1910 £7650.” In view of the fact that the public was
being asked to pay £10,500 for this business, which had
been running for years, and that the actual results were
no doubt available, this prospectus and the certificate on
which it is based are entirely unsatisfactory; and, under
a proper law, their issue, even for private circulation,
would be impossible.
* * * *
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co.—Two
years ago this co. was ordered by the Commonwealth
Arbitration Court, after an exhaustive hearing, to pay
certain waves ; and the directors went on strike, refused
to pay, and persisted in the strike for the full two years
for which the award was made. At the end of that
time, as the shareholders were showing signs of re-
bellion, the management agreed to meet the unions,
and actually had to pay more than it had previously-
refused to pay. There was, of course, something
behind the co.’s recalcitrancy. The management,
or the typical Fat part of it, was no doubt
anxious to belittle the Commonwealth Arbitration Court.
But, apart from that, the management was very glad of
an excuse to shut down while the prices of lead and silver
were low, more especially as it could get work for its
smelting and refining plant by buying and handling other
cos ’ products. The Broken Hill Prop, isn’t what it was.
Its ore reserves are comparatively small; general-manager
Delprat some time ago set them at 2,750,000 tons—a big
lump certainly for an ordinary mine; but not much for
aco with 960,000 shares. There may be some thousands
of tons more ; but the chances of finding any other very-
large bodies are distinctly not good. Now, the co. had
laid itself out to do a big ore-buying business;
and the Australian ore-treatment works which can t
draw upon a mine of its own can neither argue effect-
ively with the producers, nor can it rely on keeping its
works continuously in use ; and unless a co. can keep
going continuously, it can’t work economically, bo the
management was very glad of a chance to husband its
own resources.
Meantime, though it has not been digging out
anything from underground, it has been digging into its
zinc-bearing tailings ; and from them and the purchased
ores it has made a gross profit of £124,937 for the half-
year or £102,928 after writing off depreciation. Out of
this one Is. div. has been paid, which makes the past
seven years’ div. record as follows :
Mav 1904 £120,000 Nov., 1907 .. £288,000
Nov. 1904 :: 96,000 May, 1908 .. 72,000
May, 1905 .. 144,000 Nov., 1908 .. Nil
Nov., 1905 .. 144,000 May, 1909 ... NfJ
May, 1906 .. 192,000 Nov., 1909 .. Nil
Nov., 1906 .. 240,000 May, 1910 .. 48,000
May, 1907 .. 240,000 Nov., 1910 .. 48,000
That makes £8,800,000 in 25£ years, apart from what the
co. has got by floating off “pups.” The capitall put into the
co. was £lB,OOO, of which the vendors took £3OOO. A few
thousands were got in subsequently, not because the money
was wanted, but in order to have the shares paid up to
secure a quotation in London. How much of the £lU2,yzß
netted during the half-year was made from zinc and how
much from purchased ore the co. hasn’t told and isn t
likely to tell. A total of 204,193 tons of old ‘ tailings
were handled ; first they were put through the lead mill
again, then the residue went through the zinc-flotation
plant, and the zinc product was either exported or passed
on to the co.’s own zinc-distilliqg plant. The latter
turned out 448 J tons metallic zinc. The zinc furnaces
are still largely experimental. The total output of Zinc
concentrates was 43,907 tons, assaying 46 per cent, zinc,
6-3 per cent, lead, and 12'490z. silver. Sulphuric acidls
used in this flotation process. This acid is made b) trie
co., partly by roasting zinc corlcentrates. The surplus
is sold to other consumers.
The financial position of the co. compares with
that at six months and five years ago as follows
Assets. Liabilities.
Nov., 1905 .. £686,851 £196,187 £4 3 6 ®J
May, 1910 .. 861,103 496,343 364.<60
Nov. 1910 .. 867,209 457,421 409,<88
In the past five years £1 128 000 has been paid in clivs ;
but to do that and provide the new plant, the surplus f
liquid assets has been drawn upon to the exte .
£80,876. Plant is now valued at £523,2 ( J0, as aga
£397,400 in 1905. Of course, the amount added in n


By Appointing
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (Limited)
to act as
Trustees, Executors,
Administrators,
Attorneys under
Power, Agents, etc.,
You are assured of Absolute Security,
Efficient and Economical Management,
etc.
Trust Funds to Lend
at from 4 per cent.
2, 4 and 6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
Ak. T. MACKENZIE*
Write or Call for Booklet.
Manager
GREENING’S
SCREENING.
Agate Steel, Phosphor,
Bronze, Brass.
Write for particulars to
FRASER & CHALMERS LTD.,
Equitable Building, Melbourne;
Macdonald Street, Kalgoorlie;
New Zealand: D. M. DAVIS, Agent, Hall of
Commerce, High Street, Auckland. [2
Everv engineer in charge of factories and mills
should give close attention to the power wasted in trans-
mission of power. The Hyatt Flexible Roller Bearings
save 20 per cent, power and 75 per cent, of oil, so one of
the first duties is naturally for engineers to direct their
special attention to these bearings and to car boxes for
trucks. Hyatts are in continuous use in Cement Works,
Ore Dressing Mills, Factories, etc., in Australia. Bush-
ings of flexible rollers may be applied to loose pulleys or
truck wheels, etc. Should engineers require further
details, they can apply to the Australian Agents, W. &
J. Lempriere, Melbourne ; or E. W. Hursthouse & Co.,
of Wellington, the Agents in New Zealand.*
* * • *
“Ferrodor” Paint.—Specially manufactured
for preserving’yalvapised iron and steel. Unaffected by
sea air, sulphur fumes, cyanogen gases. Used on Mort 8
Dock and Mt. Lvell buildings; Hawkesbury, Princes and
Victoria bridges; P. & O. and N.D.L. steamers, etc.
Covers 1000 sq. yards per cwt. Does not chip or flake.
WM. ADAMS &CO., Ltd., Sole Agents, King and Clarence
Streets, Sydney.*
* * * *
Steam Users are invited to send for illustrated
catalogue of Engineering Specialities manufactured by
Bell’s United Asbestos Co., Ltd. Every description of
asbestos goods, patent “Belfry” steam valves and
asbestos packed cocks and water gauges are stocked
at the depdts of Bell’s Asbestos Australian Agency, Ltd.,
315 Kent Street, Sydney, and Beach Street, Fremantle;
also at Victorian Agency, W. H. Lamohd & Co., 328
Flinders Street, Melbourne.*
Professor Richards, in the revised edition of his
ce>brated edition of “Ore Dressing” 1909, devotes 14
pages to the Wilfley concentrating table, and, among
other things remarks (p. 1465): —“The first table sold
was installed in the Puzzle Mill, at Breckenr'dge,
Colorado. Since then over 12,000 have been sold. This
machine has revolutionised ore dressing, and as such is a
phenomenal success. The original form, and forerunner
of all modern shaking tables with longitudinal riffles.. has
been greatly improved.” And further on (p. 1478)remarks:
“One feature of the Wilfley table to which especial
attention should be called is its ability toseparate sands
from slimes while making the ordinary concentration.
This separation is more complete and thorough than can
be made by any classifier, and should be taken advantage
of in designing mills.” In the extensive additions just
made to the Golden Horseshoe Mine (W.A.) a large
number of Wilfley Concentrators have been installed.
The Austral Otis Engineering Company, Limited, South
Melbourne, have the sole manufacturing rights.* [1
+ # * *
FOR SALE Cheap, Second-Hand, 15 Break
H.P. Tang.ve Gas Engine, in good order. Apply Manager,
Bulletin Office, 214 George Street, Sydney.*
* * * *
Iron Ores —Wanted to secure rich iron ore
deposit close to coal and lime, anywhere in Australasia.
Particulars to “ Oxide,” c/o Post Office, Mosman, N.S.W.*
**j * *
Dick’s Patent Balata Belting, invented and
made by R. and J. Dick, Glasgow, is the only genuine,
reliable Balata Belting. To ensure getting real article
branded with makers’ name, obtain from Sole Importers,
James Hardie & Co., West Circular Quay, Sydney, who
carry large stocks, guaranteeing quality.* [2
m * * *
The Policy Holder, Manchester, in its issue
of 30/9/’OS, writes regarding The Colonial Mutual Life
Assurance Society, Limited : “The Colonial Mutual
typifies to a great extent the Australian spirit, the key-
notes of which are ambition and enterprise. This Society
has much which commends it for acceptance to our
countrymen, while its reputation for straightforward
dealings largely explains its success in the other countries
in which it operates.”* #
WOOD PIPE has been found to be not only
cheaper, but more efficient and durable than iron or steel.
The Australian Wood Pipe Co. Ltd., Balmain, Sydney,
will send catalogue on application.*
* * * *
An economical proposition in belt conveying of
great interest to mining and mill managers, engineers,
etc. “ Condor ” Brand Registered Black Surface Hardened
Conveyor Belting—specially adapted for the Australian
climate —for conveying ore, sand, metal, wheat, coal, etc.
Less than half cost of rubber beltijig, giving excellent
results, Kalgoorlie, Broken Hill and Wallaroo. Write for
price lists and particulars to Sole Manufacturers,
Hopkins Bros. & Odium Prop., Ltd., Leicester Street,
Carlton, Melbourne.*
■* * * *
Mining and assay requisites can be procured
at lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co. Sample
orinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces, and
all modern scientific appliances kept in stock. Estimates
supplied for fitting laboratories. Head office : Flinders
Lane, Melbourne.*
* * * •
Nobel’s Dynamite Factory, Hamburg, at the
recent Brussels World Exhibition received the highest
awards, viz., Three Grand Prix for explosives of all grades
for both mining and military purposes. This against all
comers. Mine managers in New South Wales, who are
experiencing trouble, write the agents, Wm. Adams & Co.
Ltd 175 Clarence Street, Sydney. Large stocks onhand.*
* * * *
Mine managers when requiring air compressors
either belt, steam, or electrically driven, should not fail
to inspect the Reavell Air Compressor, when they will be
impressed by its simplicity, compactness and portability.
Owing to the working parts being entirely enclosed it can
be placed to work on any part of the mine, either on the
urface or underground. The number of repeat orders
which Messrs. Reavell have received from the mining
community proves how greatly their compressor is
appreciated. The representatives for Australia are
Messrs. Babcock and Wilcox, Haymarket, Sydney.* [2
* • • •
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign patents
obtained. Collisok & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne
and Adelaide). Thirty years’ practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
* • * *
Assayers, Mine Managers, and Prospectors
write to H. B. Silberbkro and Co., 443 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining requisites
and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc pulverisers to 200
mesh : hand sample grinders to J. 20 mesh ; Ainsworth’s
assay balances sensitive to 1/13000 grain ; prospector’s
balances to 1/1000 grain; weights; pocket transits;
gasolene combination furnaces; Morgan 8 crucibles;
chemicals; etc.*
NOBEL-GLASCOW EXPLOSIVES
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
years is more than the difference between these two
amounts (£125,500), for approximately £30,000 is written
off each half-year. _
This paper has few ideas about the B H. Prop.’s
future The co. has four string's to its bow—(1) the
B H Prop, mine ; (2) the small outside mines which have
been bought or taken up; (3) the ore-purchase and
smelting business; (4) zinc extract.on As to these
(1) The profit from the mine depends on tl ?e erratic
market for metals ; (2) the small mines may be left out of
the reckoning-(3) there are few businesses more uncer-
tain than this, especially with foreign buyers competing,
and often prepared to make a fancy bid in order to
secure a certain line ; (4) the zinc market has been very
erratic in the past, and, thus far, wholly insufficient in-
formation is available as to the costs of zinc-smelting in
-Yustralia. If this co. can average the 7s. or thereabouts
made by the B. H. South per ton of ore (including zinc
contents), then the (say) 3,000,000 tons in the minei would
be worth about 225. per share. Add to that the present
surplus of liquid assets, and the probable profits from the
accumulated “tailings” and the ore-purchase and smelt-
ing business. What those profits are likely to be this paper
won’t even gueSs. , * *
Broken Hill South Silver Mining Co.
Written Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves.
June, 1904 ..£41,283 £20,000 £20,300 £52,328
Dec., 1904 .. 51,119 20,000 6,937 76,510
June, 1905.. 53,596 35,000 6,205 88,901
Dec., 1905.. 71,149 35,000 19,081 105,969
June, 1906.. 67,535 60,000 7,488 106,016
Dec., 1906 .. 99,976 60,000 18,9/5 12/.017
June, 1907 .. 103,381 80,000 9,492 140,906
Dec 1907 . 73,350 70,000 10,000 134,256
June', 1908 .. 15,497 20,000 491 129,262
Dec., 1908 .. 51,016 Nil 10,693 169, 58j
June, 1909.. 46,795 40,000 10,742 16 J >638
Dec. 1909 .. 47,980 40,000 100,000 73,618
June' 1910 42,624 20,000 5,166 91,076
Dec.,’l9lo .'. 72,427 60,000 5,081 98,422
This increase in profit and dividend is due partly to large
payments on account of zinc, no less than £32,089 being
credited to “ tailings.” Practically all of it is profit, be-
cause the co. sells this product to other cos. and lets
them do the zinc-extraction. For the corresponding
half of 1909 the income from the same source was
£9625. Part of the money received during the half-year
was on account of the half-year’s output; a small part
was, however, payment for old tailings. The deliveries
for the period were : old, 22,968 tons ; current, 84,428
ions. The Zinc Corporation has bought the old-mill
dumps; the De Bavay Co. takes the current production
under an arrangement by which the South Co. gets first
:js. 6d. per ton, then half of any profit that remains after
the De Bavay Co. has paid its costs and pocketed 3s. 6d.
for itself. It is not known how much altogether the
South Co. is netting per ton under this contract; but the
amount credited to tailings for the half-year is equal to a
farthing or so under 6s. per ton. When the zinc-extraction
business started a few years ago Block 10 thought it was
doing very well when it got 4s. for by far the best zinc pro-
,l ucC on the field. Many a ton has gone through the mill
-inee then, and the men who have watched it go have
learned a thing or two.
As remarked just now, the co. delivered and
probably got paid for rather more “ tailings ” than
it made, though it still has the slimes to the
good. And reducing the amount credited to
tailings from £32,059" to £28,500 on that account,
a small sum will show that the half-year’s pro-
fit from the half-year's output was £68,838. The ore
handled was 179,216 tons, so the profit was equal to
7s. Bd. per ton, inclusive of everything. The ore-
reserves are estimated at 3,000,000 tons, “ which
includes only 200,000 tons between the 970 ft. and
1070 ft. levels." This quantity will certainly be in-
creased as the level is developed. Another level is
being opened up at 1170 ft. It is probable that the ore
will not be again as wide as it was at 970 ft.; but it seems
quite safe to say that there are 4,000,000 tons still in the
mine; even that only allows 1,200,000 tons below the
970 ft. At 7s. Bd. per ton the 4,000,000 tons would be
north £1,533,000, or at the rate of £7 13s. per share. Six
months ago, after a half-year whose results had been dis-
turbed by the coal strike, it was figured here that the profit
was 6s. sd. per ton, and the total value £6 Bs. per share.
Twelve months ago the profit worked out at 7s. 4d. per
ton, which would make the value of shares about £7 6s.
All such estimates are liable to be disturbed by various
changes. They depend—(l) on 4,000,000 tons being extract-
able ; and (2) on that quantity yielding the same average
profit as lust half-year’s lot. But the metal market may
upset that calculation entirely. Lead last half-year aver-
aged £l2 17s. 6d. The output of lead (in lead concen-
trates) was 19,826 tons. Plainly, therefore, a rise of £1
in lead would add a fraction over 2s. to the profit per ton
of ore—and a fall of £1 would knock off 2s. And
lead during the last 10 years has fluctuated between
£lolBs. 9d. and £2l; so a£l movement isn’t one to take
the breath away. Similarly, spelter (zinc) has hovered
between £lB 10s. and £29 7s. 6d.; and that metal is
almost as important as the other nowadays. Moreover,
in the foregoing calculations no account has been taken
of the probable need to renew the plant before the mine
is worked out; though, on the other hand, no credit has
been taken for the million and a quarter tons of accumu-
lated tailings, etc., or the £65,000 of cash and securities
in hand.
8.,M. and Co. have taken the Murex process
under their wing, and have been appointed its “general
managers in Australia.” An elaborate pamphlet has
been issued crying its virtues. But the cry would have
been much louder if it had been done by the Murex
plant which has been fiddling with Broken Hill Block 14
zinc material for very many months past.
* * * *
Under the advice of Government Geological
Surveyor Harper, Neeld’s, at Wyalong (N.S.W.), is now
drilling east of the shaft at 900 ft. in the hope of picking
up the lost shoot of gold stone.
* * * *
London has evidently made a cool analysis of
Fred Morgan’s report on Bullfinch Proprietary (W.A.).
Dazzled by a few big figures, Australian scrippers sent
shares to 565. 3d.; but insiders in London supplied so
eagerly that prices tumbled to 435. 9d. before they started
to pick up again. It is notable that high values are still
proclaimed from only one point—the famous prospecting
workings. Here shaft values are given as £34 10s. ; 73ft.
of a drive is estimated at £5O, but the face is £34 10s.
No. 2 shaft, down 60ft., shows ore of less than half the
previous values (£l5 10s.). In the water shaft, 257 ft.
away, values have dropped to £5 55., and sinking is said
i o be in merely good ore. In the western shaft, 500 ft.
off the rich pocket, assays are lower still —465. As if
c inscious that the gradation of values might be noted
and the lode in the water shaft heralded as the pro-
bable future mainstay and backbone of the mine,
the report ends with the obviously-gilded re-
mark that the ore channel is 200 ft. wide, that it is
promising, and that the main workings, so far as they
have gone, contain “ some of the richest ore yet dis-
covered in the State. Furthermore, the opinion is ven-
tured that “ width and values will continue to a con-
siderable depth.” Seeing: the price shares still stand at,
the present richness of the mine will need to last. To
make a share really worth buying:, says Curie in his
“ Gold Mines of the World,” there should be ore in sight
that will yield a profit not much less than the market
valuation of the mine. Even taking the official figures as
gospel, would the ore in sight, if taken out and treated,
return a dividend of 25 per cent, on the present market
valuation? It is doubtful. In that case, 75 per cent,
seems far too much to add for the speculative value of a
conundrum like the Bullfinch.
* * * *
Gwalia Consolidated (W.A.) still spends con-
siderably more than it earns. Last year’s ore treatment
realised a working profit of £12,37!); but by the time ex-
penditure on machinery, stores, mine development, etc.,
was taken into account and provision made for London
office pickings, this surplus and a good deal more be-
sides was gobbled up. The co. still has about £19,000 to
fall back on ; but by the time the experiments now being
carried on with the object of evolving a treatment process
are finished, there won’t be much Of this stand-by left. In
their supplementary report, dated Dec. 28, 8., M. and Co.
opine that the treatment problem will be solved by
mechanical roasting furnaces, followed by cyanidation.
This, of course, means that shareholders will shortly be
asked to fork out more money for fresh plant. Meantime
the collection of odds and ends known as the ore-reduction
plant is idle. #
Oroya Exploration (W.A.) has just told share-
holders that, after the high values first met with in the
Transvaal (Southern Cross) at and below 140 ft., subse-
quent assays have been somewhat disappointing. The
grade has dropped in the main drive from 445. to 325.,
and in one winze from 60s. to 275., and in the other from
655. to 235. Of course these values may improve ; but,
then, again, they may not. And the arsenical nature of
the ore doesn’t improve matters.
* W * *
Oroya Links (W.A.), which got itself talked
about recently by paying a 6d. dividend and forthwith
reducing its gold output, has taken over the option
secured by Lionel Robinson’s agent over the Gimlet, at
Ora Banda. This show has a big sulphide lode, and all
kinds of sweet adjectives are being used about it at
Kalgoorlie.
* * * *
Great Fin gall (W.A.) has decided to add a
public crushing department to its business. A complete
sampling mill has been installed at a cost of £3OOO, and
with “ small profits and quick returns ” as its motto, the
co. expects to handle a good deal of the ore mined in the
surrounding districts. Fair values are still being met
with in the bottom of the Fingall lease below No. 17
level, and the tonnage of payable ore now opened up
above this point is said to be considerable,
* * * *
Dr. Maclaren, who lately geologically over-
hauled several mines, etc., in the YVest, has the follow-
ing to say about the North Kalgurli: “ I have no reason
to believe that the former management was inefficient;
on the contrary, from the thoroughness with which
prospecting was carried out, no minor chance was neg-
lected. I recommend the continuance of the present
system of tributes, looking for current profits from
royalties or from ore disclosed by tributors. I do not
assert the absence of rich bodies in the mine ; there is,
indeed, good ground for the belief that they do occur.
But it is uneconomic and unbusinesslike to search for
these bodies at present. The whole position may be
changed at any time by the discovery of further ore
bodies on the adjoining Hainault and Kalgurli
leases, or even on the North Kalgurli by tributors. The
foregoing, however, applies only to large capital expendi-
ture, especially in the deeper levels. The management
should always have authority to spend a limited sum from
time to time in prospecting for any readily accessible ore*
the probable existence of which may have been indicated
in the course of tributing operations. Certain returns
can only be expected when the ore has been actually
blocked out on four sides.”
In a belated annual report, apologetically passed
on to shareholders a few weeks ago, White Feather Main
Reefs (W.A.) says that the short lengths and harrow
widths of ore taken out by tributors during the term
yielded gold valued £8590 ; but, as a lot of dead vfrork and
hard ground, etc., made mining expensive, neither
tributors nor company made much out of the operations.
Meantime, both parties are struggling to get si crust with
indifferent success.
* * * *
An attempt is being made to raise the notorious
Coolgardie Redemption (W.A.) from the dead. A local
crowd has expressed its willingness to acquire the pro-
perty from the Government on terms, And the latter is
now thinking it over. Bulletin readers will remember
that this awful delusion was in the Hands of a weakly-
financed no-liability eo. for some time, but after one or
two reconstructions it was abandoned. Finally, the
Government stepped in and foreclosed on its £lOOO mort-
gage. Only optimists who aren’t particular about their
security are likely to have anything to do with the show
in future.
* * * *
Ida H. (W.A.) has fluked! some more lease of
life. The original shoot passed away at about 500 ft. from
the surface ; but, fossicking further north at 100 ft. or so
below that depth, the management discovered another
make of payable ore to take the place of the one that had
died out. Since then, values have been followed down
by winzing to 1000 ft.; the last 100 ft. of sinking exposed
sft. of ounce ore. Reserves are. now estimated at a year’s
supply, monthly profits Are ranging from £7OO to £llOO,
and shareholders are looking much more pleasant than
they used to.
♦ * * * *
Captain Richard, the boss of Mount Morgan
(Q.), has been snared by the YVaihi people to console
shareholders who are nursing the slump in the shares of
the big M.L. gold producer. A softer-hearted chap could
probably not havU been found for the job ; and if, when
Richard is throflgh with his examination and report,
there is a disconsolate shareholder, then that man is not
fit to be a shareholder, and that’s all there is to it. Mean-
while, the Motint Morgan people might, with advantage,
turn a specialist on to their own copper-smelting job.
This, however, they are not likely to do willingly, for
Mount Morgan reckons it is rich enough to learn for it,seif.
Perhaps it is ; but the policy isn’t economical, all the
same ; and usually Captain Richard is strong on that
branch 6t mine-management. The trouble is that the
large holders in the Queensland Leviathan are satisfied
with ptgsent returns and are not pushing matters. But
the leaser lights, whose shares in most cases cost them
much more, clamor for bigger dividends ; and they clamor
justly.
tJpon recent returns Mount Morgan could
hardly make an increased distribution. But recent re-
tttrns are neither fair to the shareholders nor to the mine.
When Mount Morgan constructed its copper works, with
the aid of Shepherd, the constructing engineer, it went
ahead producing blister copper. The business seemed
quite easy—when somebody else had started it.
Then Shepherd left. Spite of that, with the advent
of Many Peaks ore, phenomenally increased profits
were forecasted. Theoretically, those profits should be
pouring in now. But apparently they are not, and will
not for a couple of months yet. Mt. Morgan has found
in discarding barren ironstone for a pyritic flux that there
is moie in the metallurgy of copper than meets the eye
either in a text book or an engineers’ conference. Cap-
tain Richard is strong on encouraging and using Aus-
tralian brains. There is no field in the world to-day where
the brains and experience necessary for the Mt. Morgan
problem are stronger than Australia ; and this being an
age of specialists, Mt. Morgan can at once prove the special-
ist’s value in hard cash. There never was a better op-
portunity. The average value of the Mt. Morgan monthly
production since and including October of last year has
been in round figures £83,500. There is no valid reason
why the average should not have>been £lOO,OOO. Had
Mount Morgan taken the precaution to put on a man
who had had reasonable experience in pyritic smelting, it
could not have been accused of unfairly taxing its own
staff; and its own theories concerning the value of
Many Peaks ore would have 1 been very profitably proved.
The monthly copper production of the past four months
has —all in—averaged barely 650 tons. Of this,
approximately, 50 tons may be credited to the
precipitate works; so that the smelters can
be said to have turned out .600 tons per
month. There are one or two men in Australia at pre-
sent who would like to lay hold of Mt. Morgan plant as
it stands, and undertake to produce an additional 100
tons of copper per month. With the extra furnace that
is going up, and the deficiency of blast remedied, an extra
300 tons per month should be easily possible. Mt.
Morgan’s half-yearly report (to November 30) said that
the extra blowers and the fourth furnace would be ready
in March ; and then the production will be “ from 24 to 25
tons copper per day.” This equals 750 tons copper per
month. Where is it to come from? If Captain Richard
has not got about 100 tons copper per month up his sleeve,
then it must be in the lining of his hat.
* * * *
A settlement of ore, 30ft. by 25ft., and of
unknown thickness, marks the appearance of the earth-
fall demon at Many Peaks'(Q.). The management has
taken the hint, and is altering some details of the timber-
ing system. As the ore body is developed, greater
treachery is noticeable, and has exercised.
Gilmore Tin Co. (Queensland) wound up its
half-year with a credit of £2426. During the term 273
tons ore were carted to the mill for 39 tons concentrates,
which sold for £3614. The Dolly Grey section is expected
to give some more of this rich stone, though the stuff at
latest wasn’t keeping quite so good. The mines have
produced so far a total of £55,836 worth of tin ; but costs
are very high. #
The Charters Tdwers Warden’s report doesn’t
back up the idea that deep level Day Dawn shoots are
pitching to the east. The Warden remarks that the deep
shoot in Mills’ United is trending from the east, and its
westerly extension appears to be pitching downwards.
That is all right for Mills’ United, which is anxious to
prospect the deep ground 300 ft. below No. 14 ; but it
doesn’t make the prospects of the far eastern claims be-
yond the New Brilliant Freehold look well. Several, of
the old cos. are taking an interest in outside shows. The
Stockholm and the Cumberland have had luck, and it is
just possible that the big low-grade Grace Darling (Mill-
chester) may turn out better. Clark’s Brilliant is also
spending some money on the Gt. Britain.
* * * *
Kelly’S Queen Block, Charters Towers, is
making Calls on 48,000 contributing shares, in order to
prospect the St. Patrick and St. George reefs. The old
Brilliant reef, which gave shareholders 3Ss. per share in
dividends, is practically worked out,. Kelly sis a small
lease of eight acres, that produced £424,505 worth of
gold, so it may be worth ransacking ; but with the Bril-
liant done for, the 144,000 shares—two-thirds of them paid
up—-are a frightful load. Prospects ahead amount to
nothing in particular —just a vague hope that something
will turn up. Still things sometimes do turn up at
Charters Towers. .
* # * * *
South Glanmire and Monklarid, Gym pie, is de-
veloping the Inglewood with moderate success. The last
crushing (688 tons for 2980 z.) gave a small profit, and now
the Inglewood reef at the 915 ft. level is promising better
stone. No. 2 S. Gt. Eastern, next door, is crosscutting
at 1750 ft., the objective being a bulky low-grade body
similar to that worked by the Scottish Gynipie. The
latter crushed 5600 tons to get £6609 worth of gold. The
Scottish has 660,000 shares, and it takes time to collect
even the co.’s usual ljd. dividend on that swag.
Ajax, Daylesford (Vie.), has paid £192,250 in
divs.. and £64,894 has gone to the workers. All this has
been done on a paid-up capital of £7500, so the tatman
has been fed on proper Fatman tack. Nevertheless, Phil
Lewis, mine manager, admits worrying over ore reserves.
At 135 ft. No. 8 crosscut went into 3ft. of solid stone show-
ing a few colors of gold. Castles are being built on the
assumption that on driving south the shoot of
gold will be picked up. What would help most
would be to alight on one of the flat makes
that got the co. out of the wood at the start, and helped
the Nuggetty crowd on to bonanza stone. If No. 8 level
does not improve there is trouble brewing, for Phil Lewis
warns all and sundry that stopes are becoming depleted.
Unless something new is cut he cannot hope to keep up
present profitable returns for more than three months.
This talk comes from a man who knows his mine and
isn’t afraid to speak. Pity other Daylesford managers
seem either unable to gauge their reserves or are too
timid to tell shareholders where they stand.
Frenchman’s Reef, Daylesford, is a case in
point. It has a nasty list at the moment, recalling all
the old trouble it had to keep on an even keel. Like the
VVaratah, which had to be packed with cargo almost as
fast as she was unloaded, a little lower yield has destroyed
the trim of the mine in the market. Word was passed
round that the gold in the leading stopes was cutting out,
but inspired tipsters want it known that this is pure
foozling. Perhaps. But, anyhow, Frenchman’s was ever
a thing of patches, dependent on odd runs of gold in flat
makes of stone. A pinch of the specimen stuff helps
yields; but if the pinches have to be hustled after,
Frenchman’s will find it hard to rock out profits on the
late scale. Yet if it doesn’t, what ructions !
* * * *
Black Horse Consolidated, Egerton (Vic.), is all
that is left of Martin Loughlen’s Black Horse and its
runner-up, the Egerton. Vickery, father and family, for
long rummaged away in the Black Horse mine
to trv whether its old-time richness could not
be renewed. They got water galore and copper
specimens in the dyke, but rested there to think
over the cash they had lost and the poverty of the bister
Rose lode. 8., M. and Co. ran the rule over the mine.
Then it lapsed into the hands of others. A modest
Queen-street crowd next broke new ground to the north.
Thev, too, paused for breath in their venturing, and
between the gasps sent their legal manager to London to
trv whether J. Bull would fling some cash to look after
the lot that had already been sunk. Bull was thenon
the Bullfinch ticket or some other crude gamble, so no
deal ”is the record. The co. is charging into its ground
again, and the story is that a shoot of profitable stone has
been hit. As to its value, this deponent nor anyone else
knoweth not. Ballarat’s quiet is the least healthy sign
over the alleged find. ’Tis said that the new co. has taken
in the old Black Horse shaft and 70 acres round it.. W hat
for ? „ *
* * * *
Mt. Bischoff, blessed with cheap electric power
and easily treated ore, has cut its costs down to within a
fraction of 3s. IOJd. per ton. Its average extraction^ is
10‘631b. of oxide per ton of dirt, or say 71b. of metallic
tin. A mining and milling proposition that can pay divi-
dends on stuff that gives 71b. of tin to the ton of dirt
isn’t met with every day.
* * * *
T.H.J. : Francis H. Snow, Bridge-street, Syd-
ney Metallurgist: Sorry can’t... F.M.P. : United,
Mercantile Mutual, Australian Mutual, Queensland, and
1.0. A. have head offices in Sydney.
* * * *
From Camooweal, on the N. T.-Queensland
border, a Bulletin correspondent wires in haste that the
N. T. Exploration properties at Borooloola would make
first-class limestone quarries, if limestone were in demand
thereabouts. Also the Cooper show (which this paper
doesn’t know) might profitably be swapped, he says, for
a long beer on a dry day. # #
Mt. Balfour copper is the luxuriant weed of the
Balfour district (Tas.). With true magnificence it has a
capital of £151,000, of which £121,000 is issued. A little
lump of £48,000 has had to be written up for shares issued
under par, and there is £4OOO still due on shares taken
up. The question is whether the foundations are stable
enougil, for with all this piled-up capital the balance-
sheet shows only £3451 spent on mine development, and
£942 for plant and machinery. Among the assets cer-
tainly are the rights to build a railway from Balfour to
Stanley, and to construct electrical works, docks, wharves
and piers, as well as to levy all sortsof tolls and charges;
and there may he something in all this. Anyway, no
wonder that the passage of the Act was followed by a
dinner to sundry Parliamentarians. The cock-crowing
directors say they have been enabled to “ confidently ap-
proach strong financial groups in Tasmania and abroad.
Judging by experience in the past, no one ever suspected
the group that has cultivated the Mount Balfour plot of
any shortage of confidence ; so why paint, the lily? If
push alone is wanted to make the Mount Balfour shoot
in first in the race, it will get there all right.


THE OXFORD HOTEL,
KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Central and Charming Situation.
Special Attention to
the Cuisine. . . .
Lift and all Modern Conveniences.
Tel. 321.
F. 0. Robinson, Proprietor
Horserace “starting” machines were needed.
They arrived, were tried, condemned, then re-tried,
improved and later adopted. The inventor conquered
the “ start.” But his work is still uncompleted.
He must conquer the “ finish.” A simple recorder as
effective as the starting barrier, is urgently required.
Horses separated by half a nose are difficult to
distinguish. Who will help the judge and incidentally
all concerned? “Finishing” as well as “starting”
machines are needed think Patent Agents Phillips
Ormonde, 266 Flinders Street (Elevator), Melbourne.*
Lewis & Whitty’s Harness Dressing
(BLACK OR TAN)
Gives a brilliant finish, preserves and nourishes Buggy
or Motor Hoods, Harness, Leggings and all Leather Goods.
LEWIS & WHITTY,
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
[3
McKenzie’s excelsior baking powder.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
The S.A. Government Vet. has added to
his weird collection a lamb with only one eye, set
in the middle of its forehead. Its mouth had no
connection with the throat, so it died at once.
A BEER CORNER.
BARMAN : “ Where yeh goin' with yer beer! ”
CUSTOMER : “ To tell yeh Gorstruth, I on’y got a
third interest. It belongs to a syndicate.”
“ Jimmie Pannikin ” : A local yokel told
me, during my struggle to reach Taree (N.S.W.)
overland, that not far from the town there is a
scrub so thick that the dingoes in it cannot open
their mouths wide enough to bark. I have seen
the Walla Walla scrub, in which one gets wedged
so tightly that it is impossible to open more than
one eye at a time. 1 appeared to believe the local
yokel, but he simply snorted at mg statement. I
can’t stand these monopolists.
“ Tas ” : Pat O’Flaherty, we’ll call him,
had reached a good age when he took very ill.
The doctor was sent for; but Pat said he would
much rather have the priest. The priest came,
and finding Pat almost in extremis , did the last
little job he could do for a live Pat. This or
something else had a reviving effect, and Pat
cheated the grim-rn-m monster (as our parson
says), and got better. He was retailing his ex-
periences soon after : “ Yessir, Oi was so bad that
the holy father began to tell me all about Hivin
and the gold streets, and the silk-winged angels,
and the haylows and things. But, between you
an’ me, guv’nor, give me Bungendore !”
* * * *
“Riverina”: Truly the Chow is coming
on ! With a friend I stood in the street of a
large Murrumbidgee town on New Year’s Eve.
Near us a humorous vegetable John yarned
affably with a group of locals. A nice-looking
girl, in passing, greeted two or three of the group.
John beamed. “ You de one!” he remarked
agreeably, and the girl went smiling on her wav.
“Nice girl that,’’ said a local vouth. John agreed
heartily. “My oat!” he said. “She boshta
taht ! ” My friend pulled my sleeve. “For
God’s sake come,” he said. “ I’m contemplating
murder.”
* * •* *
“ Walt K. Harris ” : Why can’t sharks
live in a silted-up bar harbor? Smith’s Lake
(North Coast, N.S. W.) is periodically cut off from
the sea by a sand bar about half a mile long.
When the lake is opened, the fish moving north
from Port Stephens and other parts lower down
the coast crowd into it. The entrance then closes
up on its own accord, and within a fortnight the
sharks which have followed the fish in are to be
seen lying dead near the sandbank. Wherefore ?
Is it homesickness ? Or is a shark less inured to
change of scene and diet, and feebler generally
than the mere mullet ?
J. Bradshaw is incited by recent hang-
man paragraphs :
I knew Billington, the distinguished English hangman,
years ag°. He was a hairdresser out of business hours.
Barber, hairdresser, and Servant of the Law” ran his
sign at Farnsworth, near Manchester. Later, he kept a
hotel near the Theatre Royal, Bolton, Lancashire. The
bar was festooned with ropes that had done service at
various executions. Also a ease was on view containing
and brooches belonging to citizens
who had been “ operated on.” Before going to an execu-
tion Billington always put on a tall hat and his Sunday
clothes. He never talked shop when sober ; but I once
struck him at a boarding-house in Athol-street, Douglas,
Isle of Man, when he was otherwise. He complained to
nie of the sweating to which he was subjected, his earn-
ings for the scragging business being a paltrv £5O per
,' v ! th a £r > bonus for every execution, and' an extra
u ,J'. Invo ved trave lling. Why, he asked passionately,
should he work for pay like that, when Judges got £5OOO,
and even prison governors £l2OO a year? “True," he
admitted, there are perquisites, but they never are
worth much above a few shillings.” The condemned, he
said, were mostly drunk on raw brandy at the final un-
pleasantness Then he described the cutting down of
the body, the shovelling in of quicklime, and various
, ’ and 0I ? e . way and another the half-hour’s
chat did a lot to mitigate my enthusiasm for capital
punishment. He had a record of 177 men and -33 women
when he retired from the profession
“Grip”; It was very kind of “A.
Busin and Starfish” to supply “certs” for
the protection of bees
from ants, and I should
be tempted to try them
all if our own particular
cert had not proved so
entirely successful. An
obliging tinsmith made
us four flattish tins,
which we filled with
water. The legs of the
bee-stand were placed
in these, and the ants
are so disgusted that
they never even look
sideways at the hives
these days. To show
how vicious the little
niggers are, when the
new swarm came out
the other day, they
killed the bees in heaps
before they could be
captured. Nomale thing
being available I cap-
tured the swarm myself,
since when no one could
call me handsome and
prove it, as Shorty Mc-
Cabe would say ; but it’s
a heroine I’m feeling.
It was sweet of “Star-
fish ” to tell me how to
exterminate the ants
with a toilet basin and a
few ashes. But he doesn’t
knowourants. “H.H.”
has a proper apprecia-
tion of them. I lit a
bonfire on the nest at 8
o’clock one morning, and
kept it going till 1 p.in.
with driftwood from the
creek. The ants were
only mildly excited, and
in a week every trace of
the fire had been re-
moved, and they were going as strong as ever.
“Augustus Blowfly ” : A terrible thing has
happened. Poets are to be deprived of their chief
means of livelihood, their simple pleasures
blighted, and their lives clouded with a gloom
thicker than the dust on the windows of The Bulle-
tinoffice. Beer, says a recent cable, is henceforth to
be a temperance drink, some fiend having per-
fected a method of extracting its sting, “leaving
the flavor unimpaired.” But think you this re-
volting proposition can be carried out without
bloodshed, tears and the drawing of umbrellas ! I
trow not, my masters ! Already the bards are
organising, and one-and-twopence halfpenny has
been collected towards the projected fund of
£lO,OOO for the purpose of laying down a cellar of
Poets’ Beer against the expected drought. I here-
by, in the sacred name of Bacchus, call upon
all true poets to rally round this protest against
tea-cranks efforts’ to deprive us of the very main-
spring of existence. The Philistines are upon
us ! The enemy is thundering at our doors !!
Awake !!! Arise !!!!
“ Omeo The white hawk discussion re-
minds me that while at Buanboo, 40 miles along
the Victorian mining track from Omeo to lom
Uroggin, .he o t „er day, a flock of five ,„,„ S
?„d ihis^wi.rs, ks
to the locals, and browse mostly on the cleared flat
of .boot 200 aces where I saw'.hem.
PRUDENCE.
NOLAN : "Oi'm av a moind to
shoot the poor divil and put
him out av misery.”
McCARTHY : “ Aisy, Nolan! He
moight get betther, an’ it’s sorry
ye'd be then if ye shot him.”
“ Glenelg ” : Apropos some recent trouble
in the south-east of S. Aus., the real “ Tantanoola
tiger,” which certainly scared a few people and
possibly slaughtered a few sheep, has been cold
meat this many a day. The beast— a wolf per-
haps, but certainly not a tiger—was shot by Mr.
Tom Donovan, and is now preserved at his house
on the Glenelg River—a place well known to all
visitors to the Mount Gambier district.
* * * *
“ A. William Cann ” : I attended a rabbit-
shoot the other day, which could occur
in no other land than Australia. The
venue was a lucerne-patch adjacent to
an irrigation plant. When the engine
got going, half the river was hoisted up
en masse and hurled along the canals
encircling the lucerne. In about 4min.
the local rabbits started to find their
homes too damp for them, and they
bolted like demented lightning. We
stood about on knolls and things, and
plugged them till our guns got red-hot
or thereabouts. By this time the patch
was becoming submerged, and the
frenzied bunnies found it impossible to
bolt. So we desisted. And straightway
the indigenous small boy waded in,
club in hand, and slew the struggling
animals, partly fpr their skins, partly
for the joy of carnage. I believe an
Englishman named Lord de Grey holds
the British record for the most rabbits
slaughtered in one day. I am willing
to bet ss. (20 beers) to the cash value
of one of “Jimmie Pannikin’s” Abo
pars., that I can produce a youthful
Australian, aged not more than 12,
whose performance in the matter of
rabbit-exterminating is calculated to
make the British nobleman’s vaunted
achievement look absolutely sick. The
lad did not use two guns arid a loader:
all he relied on was a fragment of
broom-handle. I believe his name was
Mac Hogan.
* * * *
A North Coast (N.S.W.) finger-
post bears this legend :
Ungkacksthbnk.
It looks like a linotype gone mad, but it really
intimates to the bushed wayfarer that that way
lies the South Bank of the Ungka Creek. There
wasn’t enough board left over from the calf pen
out of which the sign was constructed ; hence the
economy in lettering. “ Ungka,” by the way, is
pronounced “You-an-gai” by the nobility and
gentry thereabouts. J
*** * )
“Jack Warrigal” : Re the horse and his
sensitive nose. Ever notice how he hates to find a
new-laid egg in his feeding-trough? Although
the horses invariably came home hungry, and the
fodder was excellent, I used to notice that, at
times, some of them would not eat with a relish,
but kept sniffing and prodding the food. I
began to take notice, and found that the trouble
was always in a manger where a fowl had been
doing its duty. Always after that I took care to
feel in the boxes for eggs and remove them, if
there were any, and I never afterwards heard any
complaints about the tucker. A horsey man to
whom I mentioned this told me that it was a
dodge at some country pubs, when chaff was
scarce, to let the fowls lay in the feeding troughs,
and leave an egg or two in each.
“Chink ”: When “The f *>
three cheers for the braverv of the P wagtail i ll™
Me too” AmmiH B l 11 V l --
a„„ t'old of thtSc
u st z
waters°of a flood T ’S, I 'f devouring
hum ” deeds Ka. It thereS m '‘" y
“ Condamine The canary isn’t a notori-
ous mimic ; but a Daylesford (Vic.) lady has one
that goes through the usual repertoire of “ Pretty
Joey,” etc., learned through being continually
hung alongside a parrot of great lingual abilities.
It also imitates the chickens. There is another
accomplished fowl in the same locality. Hearing
a disturbance in the hennery, the missus went
out and discovered a 15in. snake that a rooster’s
belligerent sister had just passed over to the
coroner.
HIS POINT OF VIEW.
MOTORIT : “ How far is it to the township ?”
SWAGGIT : “ You just follow this ’ere fence for a
couple er daps (you can camp at the Soak),
and you’ll strike her about sundown.”
“ Rusin ” : To him who is called “ Panni-
kin,” greetings ! And it grieveth me sore to tell
him that there is no way known whereby he may
surely combat the mosquito except it be with an
armor of very fine net, and that grovveth not on
every bush. For the mosquito is of the race of
Belial. The net failing, the enemy may be de-
feated, haply, by a savor of burnt cow-dung, of
which God wot there is now abundance, this
hemisphere being nearly covered with it. But
offer the enemy not the new-laid variety, ashede-
lighteth to walk therein, as indeed do most of the
folk of these parts. Touching the genus Norfolk
Howard, “Pannikin” may gain surcease from
their pestilential nibblings by using an occasional
blast of Paris green in the cracks of his abode.
Also, by raising a stink therein with burning
sulphur. I have written.
THE GAOLER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I gotter parrot in a cage ; I gotter magpie walkin’
Around the place. His wings is cut, ’r/ he’s a cow fer
talkin' 1
I gotter cocky, three year old (he’s in the washhouse,
cocky);
He’s learned a lot o' late, ’n’—yairs, ’s temper’s kind o’
rocky,
N’ he kin curse 'em out as good as any blessed spieler. ...
I got that bird as discount frum a bird-’n’-monkey dealer.
I like a pet! I like to hear ’em ehirp ’n’ rouse ’n’ cackle
O’ mornin’s in the summer-cool. I like to see ’em tackle
Their tucker when it’s tucker time. I like a parrot
hangin’
Outside the kitchen-winder, ’n’to hear the cocky bangin’
’ls chain, an’ cursin’ everyone; ’n’ hear the maggie
cryin’,
’N’ singin’ tunes, ’n’ flappin’ round to kid 'imself 'e’s
Ilyin’.
Prisoners? Well, wot of it? It makes’em mopey? Let
it !
They get their tucker every day—except when I ferget it!
I give ’em feed an’drink,’n’ they kin look out at th’
carrots,
’N’ all th’ bloomin’ garden ! Ain’t that good enough fer
parrots,
'N'Cockatoos’n’things? Escape ! I’d like t’see’em do
it.
Wot’s freedom to a two-bob bird that never damn well
knew it?
I useter whack the bush one time ; I’ve done some out-
back trackin’,
’N’birds remind me now o’ when, at dark, I’d hear ’em
clackin’,
’N’, in the mornin’ early, singin’, merry ’n’ bright as ever,
Rollickin’ in th’ gums. .. . These caged-up beggars,
though, is clever !
Why, I fergot to feed the joey, last week, two days
runnin’;
’E gnawed 'is door three-quarters through—who sez that
bird ain’t cunnin’?
I gotter parrot there—that’s right! A parrot! Don’t ’e
look it?
He’s always huntin’ round, the fool, fer ’arf a chance to
hook it!
He gnaws ’is perch all day. . . Wot, me caged up, like
Joe, fer ever!
Oh, rats 1 W’y ’e’s a pet ! I like a bird to show ’e’s
clever,
’N’talk to me. Wot’s that yer say ? Th’cage is slowly
killin’
Th’flamin’thing ! Aw, rot! ’E only cost th’ wife two
shillin' 1
VICTORIA.
FRANK HENTY.


Carter's
lITTLE
IVER
PILLS.
Constipation
Vanishes For Ever
Prompt Relief Permanent Cure.
CARTER’S LITTLE LIVER PILLS
never fail. Purely vegetable—act
surely but gently on the liver. Stop
after-dinner distress—c..re indigestion
—improve the complexion—brighten
the eyes.
Small Pill, Small Dose, Small Price.
GENUINE must bear Signature
The Royal Hotel,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Most centrally situated Hotel in Sydney.
Best place to lunch and dine in town.
J. W. COCKBAINE, Proprietor.
Watch
Bracelets
are superseding the long chains of 'ate
fashion, and very fetching they are.
Extremely handsome as Bracelets, sen-
sible and useful as Watches, they appeal
to a lady in these days of “ no pockets.”
To be of use, however, they must be of
reliable works. An ordinary movement
will not stand the constant jar and
motion of wear.
All our Watch Bracelets are specially made
for the hard wear, and they are not only
reliable, but are profoundly accurate.
YZi
EXp
s
Lever Watches, 15 Jewels, Case set with Pearls,
from £ll/10/=, in the new Expanding Bracelets.
If in Plain Case, £7/7/=
Each Watch is guaranteed for 15 years and kept in order without charge for two years (breakages excepted).
We make the Bracelets, and so save all duty charges thereon.
Plain Figures.
Cash.
Fairfax & Roberts,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street.
“Chink”: Can Australian birds count?
Have A. bo writers forgotten our very own
cockatoo that so shocked the English Ladies
Fikld by counting steadily: ‘ One, two three,,
four, five, six, seven, eight, ten ; and then rip-
ping out. “Damn it! I’ve forgotten that nine
again.” # *
“ Bungee ” : “ Chloe ” (B. 29/12/TO) had
her credence slightly stretched by the black
brudder who informed her that the emu-hen s
relieved by her mate wh le sitting. I ' ,
of emus for about three years in a small netted
paddock, and had ample time to study their
habits. The male is seldom far away from the
nest; and somewhere before dawn when the
missus rises for a feed, he keeps guard, nijik ng a
peculiar drumming sound all the time. As for the
alleged midday absence of the birds from the
nest, all I can say is that in almost every nest!
have found, the female was in bed at that hour
fully clothed, of course.
“ Jack Jay ” : With regard to this row as
to the lingo our brown Maori brother really talks
when he tries to talk te English the fact is you
don’t know what weird sounds wiU issue when a
Maori tries “have” or “ fellow. ( But its a
hundred to one he wont emit bava, or
“ feller ’’—more likely “ hafa and ? terra. As
to the Maori in general, Kowhai (B. o/l/1-)
seems to have had an unfortunate knack of meet-
ing wasters and pointers. Has he ever dropped
on whites of the same sort? I have, but I don t
therefore say “the pakeka, is a waster and a
pointer.” When the Maori has rents or other
easy sources of income, he doesn t hustle around
for toil, and neither does the paleface. In many
cases, and largely down the East Coast, he works
his own land ; and he is even developing a fancy
for cows. With 25 years’ experience of the
northern Maori in work and play, I maintain he
is a toiler under a boss or “on his pat, when he
must live by his toil. There are plenty of Maoris
about my 'whare who would have Kowhai
blessing the “ Sawbath ” after a week s punching
beside them. They take on flax-jamming, digging
potatoes or gum, fishing, draining, flax-cutting,
any old job; and they live well, dress well and
drink well. „ „
* + * *
The popular idea about the islands that
dot the Pacific is that they are inhabited chiefly
by eocoanut palms, gentle savages and sleep. 1 ins
from an old Islands’ contributor, “ le Babaran-
tiko,” turns that side of the pretty picture to the
wall: —
The natives in the southern part of the Gilbert Group
are starving. , ~
Of the 18 islands in the Gilberts, only three are really
fertile. On most of the others scarcity occurs periodi-
cally—about every seventh year—owing to insufficient
rainfall. The present drought is the most severe for
about 35 years—l judge so by having seen numbers of
palm trees of (about) that age die. ~
Starvation is nothing new in this Group. If native
traditions go for anything it carried a large population
(sav 60,000, or fully double the present population) about
the middle of last century. Then the Great Hunger came
along, and swept off more than half the people. Even
now, some of the islands, as Tabetenea, Nonouti, JNuku-
naw and Onoatoa, carry too large a population. Since
the Great Hunger, people have died of the same com-
plaint. They were, rightly or wrongly, accused of
practising cannibalism, under stress of I ’“ n^ er > ,
pre-protectorate days; but most people do that under
similar circumstances. There was no paternal Govern-
ment to feed them then, and no humanitarian ltesident
Commissioner to see that they were fed. ... .
After all, it takes the white man to preserve the life ol
the brown man right in his own land when it comes to
the push. He himself is too improvident to give any
thoughts of a possible to morrow. I have seen scarcity
threatening, when no rain had fallen for many months
and cocoanuts were few, when no flowers and no seed-
nuts were on the trees. Yet the Kanaka threw down the
last few of his nuts to buy a little rice. It took upwards
of 100 nuts, cut up into copra, to buy a shilling s worth ot
rice (41b. of rice for Is.). The family had one gorge, and
the rice was gone; the 100 nuts would have provided
wholesome and nourishing food for many days.
It is the same to-day. But there will be no cannibalism
now. “ A few days and the rice ship will be here,” says
the Commissioner. Meantime, some die and all are
weak ; but the rice ship is coming—and after that— But
there is no “ after that ” in the Pacific.
“ Austra” : Condy’s Gully had a wedding
lately. Several invitations were issued ; but I did
not get one, so I stayed at home. Ihree
evenings after the wedding date I heard
a noise coming along the track —a thick
and raspy but happy voice that spelt
beer. Confronted the noise at the rails,
and discovered it was Murphy, of the
next block. At first, I did not recognise
Murphy; but there was no doubt
about Murphy’s horse. Murphy him-
self was thoroughly disguised in a
black eye, a battered nose, a severe
disarrangement of lips and teeth, a
shifted ear, and torn clothes. I ques-
tioned him, of course. He replied:
“ Yesh, been to Condy’s to th’ weddin .
Grea’ crowd ; you wus th’ only bloke
not there; lots wus askin’ about y’.
Booze? Yesh—like a brooery w’en I
got there ; as dry as a Wowser’s wed-
din’w’en I left. Fights? Yesh, few.
Hourigan’s bullocky and One Eye ’ad
a go. Th’ painter bloke and Long
Herb got to it too. Me? Oh, I ’ad
a bit of a dust-up with Murphy
from down th’ river. ’Oo won? It
wussent a win—jest a bit of a brooze.
Presents? Yesh, lots. Me? Me?
Wot did I give’em? I give ’em wot
they deserved —that’s nuthin’. W’y
th’ cows” (we do a bit of dairying, so
know a deal about the mother of milk)
“ W’y, they never invited me ! ”
“ Billy T.” : The burglar under the bed
runs his share of the risks. There’s always the
chance of being found by a woman ; and a recent
accident at South Yarra (Melbourne) brought
another painful possibility to light. In an emi-
nent caravansary in that suburb a bed broke down,
and, to the honor of the occupants, painful groans
were heard issuing from the ruins. An alarm was
FROM THE CATTLE COUNTRY.
COUTRY: “ Where to, male!”
CITY: “ Going for a dip.”
COUTRY: “ ’Struth, are the ticks that bad down
’ere ?”
sounded down the stairs, and the adult males of
the hotel assembled in the room, armed to the
eyebrows with tongs, shovels, pokers and other
firearms. The goods were pulled from the bed,
the frame was carefully raised, and a hapless
stranger was discovered transfixed by a broken
slat. He was the expected burglar.
“Marloo” : Certain Aboliars, some months
back, had a heated discussion concerning a ship-
wreck off the South Coast (N.S.W.), in which the
pig’s ability as a swimmer cropped up. Since
then I have witnessed some swine taking aquatic
exercise, and don’t go much on them as exponents
of the trudgeon or any other stroke. Here’s the
last case : A Richmond River cocky had a mob of
25 grunters ready for market. He usually drove
the mob round by the ferry. But, while speaking
to some wayfarer—perhaps the swimming pig
Aboliar—he mentioned that if he could cross the
river direct, he would cut out five of the 11 miles
to market. As a result of the yarn, the cocky
next morning drove the 25 into the stream, some-
thing under 100 yards wide. The herd set out in
all directions, cocky following per punt. It
wasn’t long till one squeal turned it up. Cocky
paddled over, and was surprised to find the water
tinged with blood. Hauled the body into the
boat. Verdict —suicide; throat cut by front
trotters. By the time the boat reached the other
side it contained eight corpses, and not one of the
17 that weren’t corpses had a sound throat. If
that Aboliar is identical with the person who ten-
dered cocky the free advice, he is hereby coun-
selled to disguise himself or get out of the North
Coast.
* * *
WHEN WIT IS OUT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ttf HEN wine is in, the wit, they say,
Vv is out;
Which I endorse—at least concerning beer ;
For when beer Jiows, wit simply runs
about,
And as it runs we laugh at it and cheer.
The trouble is that on the morning after
I con again the jokes that made me grin ;
And try to puzzle out what caused the
laughter.
I search for wit but cannot find it in.
Brown, Smith and Jones are sober citizens
When they’re not drunk ; jokes seldom do
they make ;
But when at times they lay aside their pens,
And with myself some lightsome liquor
take,
Brown tells a yarn which first he states is
good,
And, in the painful silence that ensues,
We get more drinks ; and, in a fresher mood,
Smith tells an ancient joke we cannot lose.
We laugh at this,
because it is so
old ;
Jones tells of some-
thing that oc-
curred of late ;
And then a story of
my own is told
To great applause
—my own, at
any rate.
Then laughter plows,
and so does wit
and beer ;
And when at last
I towards my
home retreat,
/ lean against each
post that I find
there
And laugh, and
laugh, until I
wake the street.
This virtue dwells
within the fes-
tive shout,
Be it of wine, or
whisky, beer or
gin ;
While liquor's in, the
wit is doubtless
out;
But when Pm sober
I can’t find it in.
N.S.W.
HAMER.
COOKS AND THE COOKED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Reverend Felix Chad was sent
To where the heathens were content
To bend the knee to gods of stone,
And worship images in bone ;
To turn their reverence misspent
Unto the one true faith —his own.
The naked savages were glad
To see the Reverend Felix Chad,
He was so nice and fair and fat,
They flocked to hear his Gospel chat,
Although no notion any had
Of what the man was driving at.
Grown weary soon the natives rude
Their shepherd seized, and hung him nude
Above a fire on iron hooks.
Cried Felix then, with saintly looks :
“ Behold, how true ! 'Tis God sends food,
The Devil ’tis that sends the cooks ! ”
VICTORIA.
EDYSON.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, xohether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
Spillpenny: It wasn’t the pen-name that stopped
the first one, but its lack of strength. The second one
had the same disease. Pump some ginger into the third,
and we’ll give it a cheer as it passes Bellerive :We will
take the marine one this time :
FOREWARNED IN A DREAM.
The wife of a sailor while hushed in sleep
Beheld a ship in distress on the trackless Deep ;
She beheld in a vision the crew on the Deck
Struggling to save her from a total Wreck ;
She dreamt that their efforts were all in vain
The doomed ship sank ’neath the merciless main.
The sun shone bright and the waters were calm
But the impression of her dream filled her with alarm
A week after she learnt that a ship had went down
With the voyagers and crew while bound for Capetown.
....Inquisitive: “Which part of Dan O’Connor’s ana-
tomy is called the public street?” Let’s ask one in
answer: “ Where do you keep your sense of humorous
incongruity?” Night Trip : Not vivid enough
....M.J.8.: Don’t know E.S.J.: Verse is about
half-way between respectable topical verse and dog-
gerel. Prose is slight, but better A. McL.:
“ Strange but True” is deftly phrased but du11....
J.H.T. : We gave it our earnest consideration. The
result was fatal R.J.E.: Fails gracefully.... E. A. W.:
Feebft, nibbling fish verse—no bite in it R.C. (V.);
“Oracle” unsuitable Gil G. : Too sketchy.. ..M.J.S. ;
Weak verse....B. Athol: Violent but unsuccessful
struggle to be humorous with an indistinct typewriting
machine....F.O. (Sydney): A dull narrative which has
one flash of originality supplied by the lady in black who,
whilst telling the story about the wedding, says “Her
family were quite blown out about it and tacked on an
immense amount of frill.”.. ..D.0.J.: Honest, upright
and tragically commonplace verse Condot: Not up....
Narna : Monotonous. You wander along the same old
track and fire off the same old queries about whethe? you
and she would have wandered alone if you hadn’t met
each other:
I wonder did we never meet each other,
Would you, perchance, have loved some other one,
Or would you, do you think, have been too lonely—
I wonder what you really would have done ;
I wonder, yes, I wonder.
Well, if you really want to find out, you might wander
into tiie nearest Tourist Bureau and ask the man in
charge. Failing that, you could make a humorous poem
out of it by altering the last line to “ I wonder, yes, by
thunder ..H.T.C.: The old maniac, who promises to
give his daughter and his home to the handsome young
cricketer, on condition that he (the h.y.c.) wins a match,
was clean bowled, caught, given out whiskers before,
stumped and stunned first ball F.H.1.: Verses metri-
cally unfit....Longwood : Unsuitable A.B. : Sincere
but undistinguished poem with no name or address at-
tached. Anyhow, even if it had a life-line, the angry surf
that rages in the basket would claim it for its 0wn....
Sohrab : Forced humor, and the plot is not new....
Robert M.: North Shore bridge-tunnel verses thrown
overboard from ferry steamer... .Geo. P. (V.): “Fore and
After” swamped.. ."V.R.W.: Urge the lady to desist, or
make a desperate effort to do better work H.P.M. ;
Your note “Kindly allow me to submit the following
short story for your approval.” We would rather die
than approve of it. It is entitled “ A Telephone
Romance,” and the two principal characters are
idle chatterers of the variety that infest street
bureaus and monopolise the overburthened wires....
F.H.I. : Beer rhyme has dust in it W. A. Tramp:
Sorry, but the wail must die away unheard 1.K.0. :
In accordance with your request, the poem was rejected
stealthily, but with the utmost respect.... Norseman
(Fiji) : To tell you the honest truth in plain language, it
is a bad poem. It might even be called a d——d bad
poem Chim : Received three sheets of really beautiful
foolscap paper. It hurt us to have to destroy them.
Would not have done so but for the fact that you had
thoughtlessly typed something remotely resembling
verse on them A.N.: Two verses of the horse-poem :
“ They’re off !” a cry galvanic,
The’bell two seconds late,
And now their hoofs are thudding
A-coming up the straight.
“The mare’s in front! No ; Riot! ”
He holds them at his ease,
Tho’ Drumreagh, hard-held, gallops
To beat the purple sleeves.
“Sleeves" doesn’t rhyme with “ease,” so gallant old
Pegasus comes down heavily at the second rhyme-fence
and injures himself so badly that he has to be shot into the
basket... .Viper : None of them suitable... .F. 0.: “Noc-
turne” not skilfully enough played Snooker : It pro-
mised well, but fell away after the fourth line ...M.N. :
No name or address on MS. It doesn’t matter, though ;
it wouldn’t even have mattered if you had forgotten to
write it at all South Australia: Poem to hand en-
titled “ Advice to would-be Poets.” Help yourself before
you pass the dish Jack Cake : Straightforward but un-
eventful narrative.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
L.C: The golden hair on hubby’s coat refuses to sup-
port another drawing. Other too mechanical..... Max:
Phew ! E.A.G. : Doesn’t strike us as wildly hilarious.
Doesn’t even gently tap us Matterson : Character in
it. Keep going It.P.L.: Ditto Memoir.: Won’t
dispute that they are facts. They read like it Peter
H. : There was joy in the Ark when Shem first drew that
picture with a piece of chalk on the hide of the hippopot-
amus, and showed it to Ham and little Japheth when they
were supposed to be bedding down the animals for the
night W.P. : Your case is hopeless W.H.J.,
Minko, Austra Litera, J.J.C., F.B.Q. : Passed on to Old
Age Pensions branch ... W. Spug, R. Ed., M.E.A. :
Died from general debility and complications, and passed
on to the tomb 8.U.: Yours was sent to the Corpora-
tion tip Harry T.: Too far-fetched Judith C.: Poor
as drawings, and hardly good enough as suggestions
F.C.R.: Thanks. Not a bad jest; but doesn’t lend it-
self to illustration J.McJ.: A turned-up hobble already
in hand. Others out E.M.S.: It almost escaped ; but
the tremendous rush of drinky drawings pushed it over
the edge J.P.F. (and others): Don’t send drawings
and stamps for return separate. The drawing is liable to
be thrown out on its weakest spot before the stamps are
heard in the distance Pirate: The crowd which only
knows that a mine is a hole you drop your money into
wouldn’t understand the first jest. The Young Ladies'
Journal owns the copyright of the other.


THE BATTLE OF BUNKUM HILL
“THE BRINK OF CIVIL WAR.”
A grave forecast was given by Mr. Bruce Smith, M.H. R., with regard to the future of Australia, while on the referenda questions at Petersham. “We are," he said, “on the brink
of civil war, because if these political buccaneers get the power they seek into their hands, they will bring about such a state of affairs that peaceable, quiet, law-abiding men will stand it no longer.
I am quite sure that something will break.” —Sydney D.T.


Liberal reasons for
VOTING "NO” ON THE REFERENDUM
is
IN
HANGER
VICTORIA'S
SATURDAY HALF-
HOLIDAY IS in
DANCER
VICTORIAS
HUMANE
FACTORY
LAWS
ARE
IN
DANGER
}0j l
A Ra
I\ GZ.
THE BILL STICKERS.


GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
WORLD-FAMED
For
QUALITY,
HATS.
For
DURABILITY.
AND
m
r
Trade Mart
For...
Outdoor Workers
Cooling
Refreshing
Thirst Quenching
PERSONAL
ITENS
ARTIST TOM ROBERTS.
(From a Bust by F. Derwent Wood , A.R.A.)
Queensland’s baby University helps to
keep the memory of poet Brunton Stephens a
little greener by .providing for a “James Brunton
Stephens Prize,” to be awarded at the Junior Ex-
amination for the best essay in each year.
The two members of the Queensland Land
Court who go out and make room for Kidston
and the Government’s late adviser on land law,
are solaced with pensions of £5OO apiece. In
addition, they get a few hundreds in lieu of the
holidays they might have taken, but didn’t.
Yet two more Melbourne pressmen are
bound for Europe. Harry Manderson, of the
Age, goes next month; E. N. Robinson, of the
Argus, will leave in April. Robinson is also
“E.N.R.” of the Australasian. He has devoted
himself mostly to writing up the prosperous pas-
toralists of Vic., straying frequently over to the
Riverina, and knows the game so well that he can
tell a sheep from an Angora goat at a glance.
His father is the chief Hansard man in N. S.
Wales, one brother is Federal Hansard Robin-
son, and another brother is bn.the Australasian.
So the whole family travels the inky way, and
does it with distinction.
An Adelaide man advertises that he has
given up Beer. That is to say, he is (or was)
C. L. Beer, mariner; but is so tired of hearing
cheap jokes made on his name that he means to
be known simply by the Charles Leslie part of it
in future.
An old lady, Mrs. Sarah Hayter, who died
at Camden the other day, left 56 grandchildren
and 74 great-grandchildren to keep the weeds off
her grave. The old lady’s husband came out with
the Camden Macarthur. There is still living
somewhere an old gentleman with the classic
name of Homer, who was Macarthur’s boy in
buttons when that potentate arrived in 1839.
Hobart has just had its 75th annual
regatta, which is the day of days in the apple end
of the State. A venerable resident was present
at the first; he has seen every regatta since, and
hopes to see a score or two more. Yet another
Hobart youth has just tendered his resignation as
Deputy-Superintendent of the Fire Brigade, after
52 years’ service. If they don’t live much in
Hobart, they anyhow live long.
Sydney’s flower-breeder, Gr. H. Kerslake,
has been plucked by the Gatherer. He was,
perhaps, the most successful of flower hybridists
in Australia. He propagated numerous brilliant
varieties of various flowers—carnations, bouvar-
dias and (above all) cactus dahlias. When the
old-fashioned ball-shaped dahlia was displaced by
the accidental discovery that they could be grown
in latter-day “cactus” fashion, Kerslake led the
way in evolving beautiful and wondrous varieties.
He was an Australian to be proud of, and, while
perhaps little known to the general public, his
name and fame have reached places and people
that may never have heard of Deakin and Fisher,
let alone Trumper or Bardsley.
“ Billy ” Murdoch, one of the most bril-
liant cricketers and cricket captains Australia
ever produced, died very suddenly in Melbourne
last week, after making a wonderfully correct
forecast of what would happen in the S’African
Test match that day, and declaring, in his joy,
that he would never risk his good name as a
prophet by prophesying again. “ Billy,” born in
Bendigo, served articles, and then practised a
while as a solicitor; but, marrying “Cricket”
Watson, a daughter of the Bendigo millionaire,
he left off chasing Costs, and proceeded to live
the life of good things that he loved —mostly in
England. He was on a visit to Australia, mainly
in connection with the Watson property, when
something went suddenly wrong with his over-
full blood supply.
Passed out at Hobart, aged 80, Edwin
Cradock Nowell, the venerable Clerk of Tas.
Legislative Council. He was a native of Hobart,
son of an officer in the Commissariat Department,
and had worn his wig in the House of Gloom
since 1864. The courteous old man was reckoned
a sound authority on Parliamentary procedure,
and wrote a book or two on this and cognate sub-
jects. In his declining years he grew a shade
pedantic, and died leaving behind him an essay
on the deplorable relations of Capital and Labor,
which, though showing the old chap’s kindliness,
is of no economic value in the present age of
steam, electric-power and flying-machines. The
vulgarities of these latter days vexed him sorely,
and he was probably glad to go.
Adelaide has just lost two real veterans.
T. R. Bowman was one of a family that lived
near Hobart in the ’3o’s. The family meant to
settle in Westralia in 1829 ; but after knocking
about the seas for six months their vessel struck
Y. D. Land instead, and they settled there. The
sons moved over to the infant South Australia in
1838. Their sheep were attacked by wild dogs
about where Port Adelaide now is; but the
brothers stuck to it, and made a pile in various
stations—Martindale, Werocata and the Lakes.
William Galbraith was a Scotchman, and one of
the very few who remember the rejoicings over
the Reform Bill of 80 years ago. He did most of
the early lithographing in Adelaide—including
the original print of the “Song of Australia.”
This veteran always declared that what brought
him and a mate out to this land was a pamphlet
stating that butter (a rare luxury in Glasgow in
1848) was so plentiful and cheap that South Aus-
tralians used it to grease their boots.
South Australia’s Premier Yerran seems
to be on more than speaking terms with the
Deity. Said the humorless local preacher at a
recent Beastly Sunday Afternoon in Melbourne
Wesley Church: “His friend Edgar could not
have carried out his work unless God had said,
‘Edgar, get in front, and I’ll push behind.’”
The idea of God speaking familiarly to small par-
sons, and asking them to play the star parts while
He fills the job of prompter, is made the more
humorous by the fact of Edgar’s peculiar and
very worldly interference in connection with that
will, which Chief Justice Madden had to speak
very severely about a while ago.
An American lecturer who will strike the
Eastern States shortly is Walter Mills,, whom
some rate above Eugene Debs as a Labor orator.
Born in a hunter’s cabin, Mills began battling for
himself when he was eight years old. At 13 he
left home and started to work his way through
college and university, winding up with his M.A.
degree. This, the end of education to many, was
only the beginning for Mills. He delved into the
political temperance movement, was in 1891 dele-
gate from the American Federation of Labor to
tho British Trade Congress, was special commis-
sioner in connection with the Chicago World’s
Fair in 1900, organised a school of political
economy, through which over 4000 men and
women have taken a correspondence course ; and
has trained hundreds as writers, lecturers and
organisers on behalf of American Labor unions
and the Socialist party. His “ Science of Poli-
tics” and “ The Struggle for Existence ” rank as
text-books in America, and he is now putting the
finishing touches on “ Democracy or Despotism.”
Mills put in a strenuous spell on behalf of the
Labor party during the British elections of 1909,
and while in Australia is unofficially under the
wing of Andrew Fisher and Co.
Evidently the Fatman thinks there’s luck
in the name of Osborne. It was a disgruntled
unionist of that name who was the nominal plain-
tiff in tjbe recent British case which stopped
unions from using their funds for a political pur-
pose ; now it’s another Osborne who is nominal
plaintiff in the action
designed to knock Aus-
tralian Labor out over
the Land Tax. This
Osborne is an Eng-
lish import, and a
partner in the
ancient law firm
of Norton, Smith
and Co.
CHIEF JUSTICE CULLEN (N.S.W.).
A. P. Canaway, the Ma State’s latest K.C.,
is one of the few men left at the Bar who were in
the famous Mount Rennie case. Canaway, then a
junior, was one of the counsel assigned to the 11
lads who had the horrible luck to meet the hysteri-
cal Windeyer on the bench. For years past he
has specialised in the tangle known as land law.
Australia’s old fluent friend, Wilbur Glenn
Voliva, “Elijah” Dowie’s lieutenant, has just
held some monster’ gatherings in the Chicago
Auditorium, apparently in rivalry to Wilbur
Chapman. Their Zion City is said to be flourish-
ing. Whatever else he did, Elijah established a
rattling good business concern, like the Salvation
Army. The magnetic healing is kept up by
Voliva, but not with anything like Dowie’s pre-
tensions ; for Voliva, like Uriah Heep, is strictly
’umble —he is only Overseer, not Apostle.
William McMillan, the belltoppered poli-
tician who had the reputation of being a Heaven-
sent financier, until the awful failure of his
McArthur and Farmer and Settlers’ businesses
knocked the bottom out of the superstition, is
going to the place where George V. is to get his
new hat. Under the cursed system of Protection,
McLinen and his resurrected softgoods business
ought to be languishing ; instead, the firm is said
to be making big profits nowadays, and the bigger
they are the more busted will be McLinen’s poli-
tical reputation. Still, he even now gets some
encouragement—as, for instance, when the whole-
sale fluff merchants of York-street gathered round
the edibles the other evening and urged him, as
their president, to take an even more exalted
view of himself than he has done hitherto.
G. A. Richard is this year’s president of
the Institute of Mining Engineers, which is meet-
ing in Maoriland—these annual meetings wander
all over the map. He gets his crust as general- -
manager of Mount Morgan, and has just been
implored by the London owners of the Waihi to
tell them whether the bottom is really in danger
of dropping out of that Greatest Maoriland mine.
Richard and Alex. Peacock—he whose laugh en-
titles him to the name of Peacackle—were born in
the same year at Creswick (Vic.), and Richard
got all his early training there. He had
the luck to fall into a little assaying
job at Mount Morgan, in 1884, when the mine was
a very small infant, and he started to climb at
once. Nobody ever accused him of being a won-
der as either metallurgist or engineer ; but he has
the knack of managing men—directors included.
Those who nowadays say that he’s a “cunning old
dog ” mostly mean it as a compliment; what they
want to say is that he knows what he wants and
works to get it without yelling his intentions at
the top of his voice—or even the bottom of it.
And he isn’t so old either; he reaches his half-
century this year.
“Died of etiquette” would be a fitting
epitaph over the dust of Lady Wolverhampton,
who passed out the other day in England.
According to the cast-iron rules of the British
Court, when the monarch stands nobody else
ought to sit. Queen Alexandra seldom sat in
public during her short reign because, though she
got down easily enough, she rose with difficulty
by reason of a stiff extremity. Edward VII. was
also rather perpendicular on ceremonial occasions.
The unfortunate Campbell-Bannerman took to his
bed and passed out after a royal function,
at which he stood until his rather aged legs
gave out, and Lady Wolverhampton repeated the
performance. Her exact age isn’t mentioned, but
as she was married 54 years ago, her best pedes-
trian days were past. Her husband being a
Minister, she was bidden to a certain great State
function, and as nobody offered her a chair she
collapsed afterwards through fatigue, and never
really recovered. It hardly seems worth whiie,
somehow.
Died in Adelaide, at 49, as the result of
a fall, Sidney Bleechmore, good judge of a Cup
and of most other things that make life pleasant.
In fact, it was as “ Judge ” that he was invariably
known to his wide circle of friends. Witty and
good-humored, he took his profession, as he took
other things, comfortably ; but he put in a good
deal of hard work, nevertheless, as partner to two
men well known in the Adelaide courts in their
day—W. R. Wigley and Crown-Solicitor Stuart.
John West, of Melbourne Argus and
Australasian, has left to become boss organiser
of the misnamed People’s Party of Vic. For this
he will get £BOO a year—which is a good deal
better than most press “prizes.” West knows
pretty nearly every cocky in Victoria, having
pursued the giant turnip at country shows, etc.,
for over 10 years. Beginning working life as a
schoolmaster, he went on the land in N.S.W. and
remained there for 10 years ; but, failing at the
game, he sank into press work, and naturally pro-
ceeded to tell the world how to succeed.
A big “silk” movement is reported in
connection with the N.S.W. Bar. Besides Cana-
way, who has just thrown off the stuff gown, it is
said that Blacket, Dr. Coghlan (who is ripe and
over-ripe for silk), Broomfield and others may add
the magic letters K.C. to their names. D. G.
Ferguson, one of the most learned of them all,
avoids silk, as his opinion and pleading work
bring in the biggest part of his income. Pros-
pective vacancies on the bench may explain the
sudden popularity of silk. Cohen, J., is almost
out, and there may be Juderes in Federal and
other jurisdictions to be appointed before long.
Captain William C. Sinclair, of Mel-
bourne, has come to anchor. The old man had
for some years past been something of a local pope
in maritime matters. He was Australian marine
superintendent for the Union Co. of Maoriland,
and, previous to that, building superintendent for
the same co. in Scotland. For about 22 years he
commanded a navy of ships, including the Tara-
wera, Manapouri, Talune, Monowai, Moana and
Mokoia, the last two of which he piloted from the
Clyde to J. Ward’s Dominion.
J. H. Gillies, the Melbourne metallurgist
who got the Tasmanian Parliament to give him a
Bill authorising him to turn the Great Lake
waters into electricity, is leaving this week to feel
the weight of J. Bull’s pocket. So far as Gillihs
is concerned, cheap power is only a means to an
end ; he reckons he has a process for the electric
smelting of zinc which will put thousands into his
own pocket and millions into Australia’s. He is,
however, hard-headed enough to see that the
public isn’t likely to rush a smelting process
which is to a great extent a secret; so he relies on
being able to show J. Bull (who is to be offered
half the contributing shares) that the supply of
surplus power and light to Hobart and other
towns will give a good enough return, even with-
out the dazzling profits he hopes for from zinc-
smelting.
MARINE ITEM.
The Minister for Works yesterday told a deputation
that it was probable that a floating dock would be estab-
lished in the vicinity of Carrington.— Sydney D.T.
MAD MIKE: “ Improvement in Water Police
Court, I suppose."
The site chosen for the C. C. Kingston
statue in Adelaide is withm a yard or two of the
place where the Radical had his famous row with
Chaffey Baker, the local Tory leader and after-
wards President of the Senate —a row which
ended in the challenge to a duel which never
came off. The two put some sort of a patch over
their differences afterw'ards; and, curiously
enough, Kingston was President and Baker was
Chairman of Committees of the Convention which
framed the Commonwealth Constitution.
ALL THE DIFFERENCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A Sydney Sunday weekly publishes, under the heading
“ Admired by Alphonse,” a photo of Monna Delza, “lady
friend” of the King of Spain, “surrounded by the lovely
things bought for her by her admirer.”
I hurled the paper from my sight:
My heart with grief was seared ;
I sought me out a Wowser wight
And seized him by the beard.
“ O Wowser ! ” spluttered I in rage,
“ What think’st thou of this thing ?
See, published on a Sunday page,
The mistress of a King!
“ Yea, Wowser —there, with gifts bedecked,
The Scarlet Woman lurks !
Observe the Moral Code all wrecked,
And Christians turned to Turks !
Unchain the Puritanic tide—
Up ! Let the welkin ring !! ”
“ Nay, brother, ’tis Alphonse,” he sighed :
“ Alphonse . . . who is a King.”
“ What 11 ” curst I forth as one that foams,
“ Are these thy morals high?
Think of the Breaking Up of Homes,
The Sacred Marriage Tie 1 !
Shall, by this wench, saints’ codes be burked ?
Let Wesley’s tigers spring ! ! 1”
“ But, sir, she loves Alphonse,” he smirked,
“Alphonse . . . who is a king.”
I roared out in his wrinkled face,
All murderous with rage :
“ Leave then the woman from the case,
O sanctimonious sage!
On the vile head of man impeached
No thunderbolt can’st fling?”
“ None—for it is Alphonse,” he screeched ;
“ Alphonse . . . who is a king.”
With one wild curse I cast him by,
And mused, as home I glode,
On what weird way these Wowsers dye
Their morals a la mode —
How nymphs, who else would earn a frown,
Unharmed may have their fling,
Should their misdeeds include a Crown,
And their manage—a. King.
n.s.w. ■
BARNABAS BUZZ.


... \
/w,:
H
•I'MS
i kw.\
tm
>«•'
n;
isy*
• V ?"*«>
i< \ '\
IIK\
ff ;! :fe-'4
nvs»vi
VS
■:.‘ -•
m
£3B#
1
iV
f«
>t ; :
m
:?: ••'!• '/( >yfflm V
I/ H *V:
ST: in! ■ '.
h - vii r«fc4 ■
II : l-iia 'iJBLV
Hi
ii. c 4-
m
& vj
f
i'i I! ).1«T !VSi' |
< 4 !; \
iinllr ii
li
O'.
m
4 ■?. i
f#
Ilf
m
rr'-ZHi
Ii
pi- Ay?* •:/• >!
'A'-- i. v -';.:
r*
X.
SVSS*
I fir >lk
41 ,
w
S' >N i
'S//
fcVj; -s;
if
Mi: •/•
m,
ffrj r;
re
Ml
\i-.
> i
i
; ■: .
w
1
[il
%.S
m
m
m
44
lilt
1
»i
■
m
II
SY3W/
HMM&'
u-:
-
’s4-."If!
|( 4 ■: f v j l!i
tiw'hh i,
’srnfM \:
Mi3i& .':!
Mil xs
\ISIIIh
\ II m. {
\ V' ■'• .
:• \ Iflfflpv
: msm wm
•. . ' .y mn
w
f Ifhlife® |v : H ; cte
.5 mi sJ^S<| I fgAM'^Si
j.• |,v*j 'p|''C-'•
\ 11 I
!' iU • m ' v v ■' C4A 4
‘Vi;, Mff . '
-m
THE AUSTRAL SUITS.
“Suppose a Monarch chanced to roam,
And left his Sunday suit at home;
What would he do? What would he say?
How would he manage? Tell me, pray.”
“Well, let me tell you he would go
And buy a suit from—well, you know;
He’d go to Gowing’s, like the rest
Of those who know when they’re well dressed.”
Our Austral Suit is the outcome
of years of thought and experi-
ence. Since 1868 we have made
a special study of every detail in
men’s tailoring, with the result
that our Austral Suits are now
acknowledged as unequalled for
cut, finish, quality and wear ;
indeed, we keep nine cutters
constantly going. We have also
made a feature of Australian
Tweeds, and specialise in Vicars’
Marrickville, which carry their
own recommendation, being “all
wool, pure wool, and nothing but
wool.” You cannot do better than
commence 1911 with an Austral
Suit. We quote 635., 705., 755.,
845., 905., 955. and 105 s. If you
cannot call, drop a postcard, and
we will send you a full range of
patterns and self-measurement
form. We pay carriage on all
orders throughout Australia, and
are open on Friday Evenings to
10. Any time when passingcall in
and let us register your measure.
Gowing Bros.,
486. 488, 490 GEORGE STREET; and
J, 9,11,15,15 and 17 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.


Always merry and bright, eh ! Yes, if in
the hot weather you drink “ Montserrat ” Lime
Juice. It cools and purifies tfie block}.*
CHERRY BLOSSOM BOOT POLISH
is all you could wish for, both as a
shiner and preserver.
Because this perfect polish need be
used only sparingly and seldom,
you wifi find-one Tin Of it will out-
last tvvo of the'ordinary kind.
Cherry Blossom comes in Black and
Tan, at 3d. and 6d. per tin—the lar-
gest on the market at the price.
Most dealers sell it. Write us if you
vfliave jiny' difficulty in securing sup-
•'-plies, j ~L ,K
Managing: Agents for Australia :
SWIFT & COMPANY, 32 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Join the Array
Of those who have tested the wonderful remedial
virtues of Dr. Sheldon’s Magnetic Liniment. It
gives speedy relief y.'benever'{applied to- 'it busn,
blister, bruise or a pain or sore of any nature.
Price Is. 6d, and 3s.*
LAY AWAKE IN PAIN AND MISERY.
Mrs. A ngus, of Oxide and Wolfram Streets,
Broken Hill, says : For four years my life wasa
misery, I suffered so with indigestion. I would go
to bed only to lie awake in pain and misery, until
I was nearly mad. I tried everything, but could
get no rest or relief. Then my sister-in-law, Mrs.
Brown, of Warrnambool, Vic., told me of the great
benefit one of her neighbors had received from
Chamberlain’s Tablets, and induced me to try
them. The first few Boses brought relief and rest.
After I had finished tvro boxes new life seemed to
be given me. I have had no return of my com-
plaint, and now go about my daily duties in a
cheerful manner.”*
I
MORE BLOOD FOR
BLOODLESS PEOPLE
More Blood means More Strength
and Good Health.
The only thing that pale, weak and bloodless
Australian women and girls need to become strong
and healthy is a sufficient supply of good, red
blood. The shortest way to renewed health is an
increased blood supply. They are ill and ailing
because they haven’t enough blood. They will be
better when their blood supply is increased. The
question then is : how to obtain more blood. Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills are for this very purpose.
Their record in Australia shows that they ha.ve
cured more anaemic people than any other medicine
ever offered to the public.
A typical case is that of Miss Emily Fisher, of
Eyre Street, Ballarat, Victoria. She was practi-
cally a physical wreck for two years. After a
course of Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills she is now a
rosy, healthy woman. Miss Fisher made the
following statement to a reporter
‘‘ About seven years since I was employed at the
Ballarat Woollen Factory, and I became very
weak and run down, in fact, so ill that I had to
leave tny employment. I tried many home
remedies, and then I went to a Melbourne hospital,
but derived no benefit from the treatment there,
and after six months I left the hospital in a worse
state than when I went in. My face was very
white, and my gums and lips were pale. I used
to suffer much from spasms round the heart, and
shortness of breath. My hands and feet were
always cold, even in warm weather, and in ad-
dition to warm woollen stockings at night, I used
to have to keep a hot iron to my feet in bed. I
was ailine like this for about two years, when my
sister Annie, who had been using Dr. Williams
Pink Pills for anaemia, advised me to try a course
of them. I thank God that I took her advice.
Before I finished the first box I felt new blood
flowing through my veins, and my spirits which
had been very low seemed to rise in proportion. I
continued the use of the medicine till I had
taken three boxes, when I felt as well as ever
I did in my life, and for the past five years have
enjoyed the best of health, and have not lost one
day’3 work through sickness. I have no doubt
that it was Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills that cured
me and made a strong healthy woman of me.
If Miss Fisher had not been particular to get
the genuine, she might have been ailing yet.
Don’t bother with thing's said to be just as good-
imitations never are. Price 2s. 9d. a box, or six
boxes for 15s. 3d. ; to be had of storekeepers and
chemists, or sent direct by the Dr. Williams
Medicine Co. of Australasia, Ltd., Sydney.
V
Id is essential
that a Truss
fits correctly—
for safety and
c o rii f ort. As
Specialists w e
ensure exact fit
in every case.
Our Special
Elastic Truss
gives perfect
safety and has
17/6 Single;
22/6 Double
Call or Write.
no irritating springs. D£NY£R BROS>»
Truss and Abdominal Belt Makers,
281 GEORGE ST. (opp. Hunter St.), SYDNEY ; and
cr. S'vanston <fe Donsdale Sts..
POLITICAL
POINTS
The Australian Co. which had previously-
got the contract for erecting two “ wireless ”
stations for the Commonwealth, has now also
received an order for two high-power stations for
the Maoriland Government. One of the Com-
monwealth stations will be at Pennant Hills, a
few miles outside Sydney ; and within 12 months
the co. expects that Australia will be getting
messages at that station respecting lou Ward’s
latest loan. Whereupon another of the “per-
manent” undertakings into which we have put
Cohen’s money, without troubling about a sinking
fund, will begin to wilt.
W. Gr. Higgs, who has been selected as one
of the Coronation picnic party, has owned up, in
reply to the persistent questioner, that he per-
sonally can’t say much in defence of the picnic.
The best excuse he could think of at the moment
was that the Federal Parliament was “ half-killing
some of its members—measures like defence, the
land tax, the Northern Territory and others re-
quire a most strenuous expenditure of vital
energy.” That, no doubt, explains why tremendous
workers like Livingstone and Quick were chosen,
while fellows who do nothing, like Hughes and
Tudor, are left at home. Under the circumstances,
it seems absurd to have taken the opinion of
members as to who should go. The Government
should have lined up the House before either a
doctor or an undertaker.
The Murray Government has erected a
State brick-works at Wonthaggi (Vie.), near
the State coal-mine, and is producing baked
clay on a considerable scale. At present, the
bricks are comparatively costly; but when
the plantis improved they will be produced
at much less expense. The estimated
weekly production will be 100,000, which
will be much more than the State
will want, wherefore the public will
be entitled to bid for the surplus.
Naturally P. Enterprise is greatly
alarmed, and calls upon John Murray
to say what he means by fooling with
the Socialistic tiger and interfering
with Private Enterprise. John hasn’t
made any reply so far; but when he does
wake up from his doze he will probably
say that, by offering would-be builders
cheap bricks, he is giving Private
Enterprise more help than its alleged
champions in the brick-making trade ever
did.
Sydney’s Evening Bloodstain trium-
phantly produced some figures last week and
asked The Bulletin what it thought of itself
On the indisputable evidence of the gauge, the Cotter
is running at the rate of 150,000 gallons a day, and in a
week it would be possible to save enough water for a
population of 25,000 for two years. This must be un-
pleasant reading for the stinking fish brigade, who en-
deavored to make out that the district was a sort of
Sahara.
Well, 150,000 gallons per day for seven days is
1,050,000 gallons ; and in two years there are 730
days ; so if 1,050,000 gallons are enough for 25,000
people for 730 days, the Evening Bloodstain’s
idea is that something a good deal less than half a
pint of water a day is a fair thing to allow for the
population of Australia’s capital. Probably there’s
something wrong with the Bloodstain’s arith-
metic. There is always something wrong with the
Stain.
Woman’s political enthusiasm seems to go
off the boil very quickly. In April last 427 more
females than males recorded their votes for Coon
or Beard in Batman (Vic.). In the recent by-
election 509 more men than women marked a
ticket for Brennan or O'Neil.
The Victorian State Statistician has rec-
koned Up that on the 255 square miles which
include Melbourne and its environs there are
quite 50,000 more people than on the 87,253 square
miles which comprise the rest of the State, bo
the position figures out like this :
Melbourne and Environs .. 2616 people per sq. mile
Rest of State 7 ~ » » »
It isn’t a healthy condition of affairs, and when
Premier Weary is rested, which is expected to be
in about 2794 years, he will either look into it, or
go to bed, or something.
W. M. Hughes, Commonwealth Attorney-
General, returned from Maoriland recently, and
when he got ashore he opened his mouth and
said :
Maoriland is a great country, distinguished by its
general air of prosperity and lack of centralisation,
which I think is the most hopeful and cheerful feature
of the whole business. If Australia were as well popu-
lated, or the population distributed in the same way, it
would be an infinitely better place than even it is.
Certainly. But when Hughes got a chance to
help distribute Australia’s population better, by
planting a big city, with a busy port in front and
a thriving yeomanry at the back, almost midway
between Australia’s two biggest cities, did he
rush the chance? Or did he block that “hopeful
and cheerful business” by planting the new city
at the back door of one of the overgrown mush-
rooms, where any future greatness it might attain
would only serve to help boost up the monster?
And didn’t he even turn dog on the democratic
principle of the Referendum rather than help to
distribute population afte rtheMaoriland fashion?
As usual, it is the anti-Socialist Daily
Telegraph which is hollering loudest to tue
N.S.W. Government to spend a heap of State
money on “the holiday surfing resorts, such as
Bondi, Coogee and Manly ’’—State money col-
lected at Newcastle and Boggabri and Broken
Hill. “Comparatively poor municipalities,” it
calls them— Rand wick and Waverley and Manly !
Being inhabited chiefly by Anti-Sosh, they are
naturally represented in Parliament by ultra-
individualist members, who object to interference
by the State with Private Enterprise— unlessit be to
do things which Private Enterprise is too selfish or
too sleepy to do. All these “ poor ” municipalities
have rating powers which they don’t exercise—
powers that would enable them to run any num-
ber of municipal beach services. Every little
town on the coast of Europe organises, at its own
expense, to attract the lucrative visitor and make
money for the citizens, and many a one provides
municipal theatres, race-courses, and conserva-
tories of music out of the profits. But in N. S.
Wales the lazy, loafing municipalities sit tight,
and scream for Government aid and more of the
centralisation which they say is ruinous.
' Steve O’Brien (“Jack Shay” of many
Bulletin pars), who is contesting North Sydney
in the Labor interest at the Reps, by-election
prompted Henry Lawson’s lines, “ Who’ll Wear
the Beaten Colors?” It happened when West
first challenged Greid in East Sydney. West
went down ; but O’Brien was still flaunting the
blue-and-white colors when Lawson met him, two
days later. In response to Lawson’s question,
O’Brien explained that he was wearing the colors
for the next victory—the last defeat didn t matter.
O’ Brien is that sort of plucky campaigner ; and
though North Sydney is a hard nut for a Labor-
ite to crack, the exceedingly “ Liberal ” Colonel
Ryrie won’t have things all his own way there.
PREPARING FOR APRIL 26.
The best thing that has happened to the
referenda proposals befel last week. Charles
Gregory Wade, V. 0., came out and spoke against
them. Now, won’t Wood do likewise and make
the passage of the amendments sure.
The other day Treasurer Watt, of Vic-
toria, was asked bv a deputation to bring in a Bill
providing for municipal taxation on the basis
of unimproved values. Treasurer Willie said he
was sympathetic—which turned out to mean that
he was in favor of letting the shires please them-
selves ; and, seeing that shire councillors are
nearly all landlords or landlords’ cien, they will,
of course, please themselves, by taxing improve-
ments. In nothing is the Fatman’s hypocrisy
more manifest than in this.' He puffs that he be-
lieves in Private Enterprise, He does ; and he
habitually votes in favor of a system which taxes
the man of enterprise while the loafer escapes
free. y V ■*.
The other day a new paper
arrived in Sydney, The Land—
alleged to be devoted to the interests
of the backbone of the country. The
Land, in its first issue, announced its
horror of the mendacious attempt
now being made by Australians to do
some more of the governing of Aus*
tralia. What could Victorians, for
instance, know about governing
N. S. Wales? Having settled that
matter, The Land proceeded to con*
sider the N.S.W. Dairy Supervision
Act, which, it seems, is “occasioning
widespread dissatisfaction. Dairymen
talk of abandoning the industry ; indeed
several have done so. In Victoria capable
men visit farms ; here policemen [evidently
a term intended to indicate incapables]
come round.” Which, of course, shows you,
when vou come down to details, how dreadful it
would be if Victorians had any say in the Govern-
ment of N. S. Wales.
Of all the politically slain among the
Deformers in recent political campaigns, ex-
Senator Neild has come off worst. A long-
drawn-out illness on top of the senatorial defeat
which he didn’t expect has left him on a lee shore,
physically and otherwise. A private effort is
afoot to assist in tiding the ex-Senator over the
otherwise.
“In that House [the Vic. Legislative
Council] there are no parties,” says J. Balfour,
M.L.C.
There is but one party there,
They without a blush declare,
And they all are in it.
Just one party—Fat’s it’s name ;
And its watchword is the same :
“ Down with progress ! ” That’s its game,
Every hour and minute.
N.S. W. has so many shut up and neglected
harbors —places which are avoided by the men
who make roads and dodged by the men who
build railways, lest big, rich, commercial cities
should grow up beside them—that it can dig one
out quite casually any day. Thus it was men-
tioned to the Decentralisation Commission that
there is 55ft. of water in Wagonga Inlet, a little
north of Twofold Bay ; that it includes a great
expanse of land-locked water ; and that the only
obstruction is a bank of soft sand, which could be
easily dredged away. Yet who ever heard of
Wagonga Inlet?
THE MAGNIFICENCE OF ISAACSTEIN.
RUBE: “ Old Isaacstein vas promise vie tree
tousand pounds if I vas marry his
daughter.”
IKE: “Git avay! He hasn’t got that much
money.”
RUBE: “ No , I know he hasn’t; but vasn't it a
splendid offer?”
Nielsen, Minister for Lands in N.S.W.,
belongs to the clique in the Labor ranks
addicted to State Frights. He says “Hear,
hear,” to the argument that centralisation of govern-
ment is bad. When Nielsen dropped into his
portfolio, he found that the Closer Settlement
proposals were decentralised and dealt with by
three or four Closer Settlement Boards. Nielsen
has improved the system by abolishing the whole
lot and appointing a single Board to deal with
the whole State. This somehow seems to point
in a loud tone to an orifice in Nielsen’s theory.
THE TORY BLOWFLY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Am I asked by the Government Entomologist to believe
chat the two kinds ot Blowfly, viz., the Brown and the
Bluebottle species, have changed their nature within the
last 30 years? Such a contingency ... is extremely im-
probable.—Lismore correspondent mS.M.H. (15/21’11).
I’m a strictly respectable Blowfly wot believes in the
corpse o’ Freetrade ;
I don’t ’old no truck with the Sosherlist ruck—l sticks to
ole Gregory Wade.
I don’t put no faith in this talk of a change wot’s advanced
by them mean little flies
As says the conditions o’ things is unfair—Gor’ bless me,
just look at my size !
Is there anythink wrong, do yer think, with the world
when I grows a big stummick like that?
VVe don’t want no change, nor no lawgivin’ strange, we
Blowflies respectably Fat.
Free corpses, and none o’ your taxes, I says—with Enter-
prise given free wings ;
And if big bottle-flies gets the best share of life—that’s
the natural order of things’!
It’s the mean little flies does the work o’the world? I
grant yer, it’s true that they does ;
But where would they be but for blowflies like me, to
superintend with our buzz ?
For I values all Capital, Trade an’Finance in the ancient,
respectable way,
With my stake in the country, them sleek little ’eirs wot
flourish in creeds o’ decay.
Let the other flies dream o’ Posterity’s claims—but give
me pork-butchers an’ tripe—
I don’t lay any eggs on Futurity’s site—for the time, as
I tell you, ain’t ripe !
And prophets wot bluster an’buzz o’er the panes with
their talk o’ Democracy’s rise—
Is it likely these days as they’ll alter the ways of the
crusted old bluebottle flies?
Drive capital out o’ the State— that they might, with
their talk of Equality’s code ;
But as blowfly to fly, I just glares in their eye an’ snorts
at their buzzin’: “Be blowed 11 ”
n.s.w.
AUGUSTUS BLOWFLY.
A SHRIEK FROM THE BRINK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The Brink of Civil War.”
A grave forecast was given by Mr. Bruce Smith,
M.H.R., while speaking on the referenda. “We are,” he
said, “ on the brink of civil war, because if these political
buccaneers get the power they seek into their hands,
they will bring about such a state of affairs that peaceable,
quiet, law-abiding men will stand it no longer. I am
quite sure that something will break.— Sydney D.T.,
llliflt.
Do you hear the words of warning wildly uttered by Bruce
Smith ?
Do you see the blanky spectre that he says we’re march-
ing with ?
Do you see the yawning chasm
That he mentioned with a spasm ?
Is there substance in the Horror, or is it a hand-fed myth ?
Do you think the law-abiding
Section really thinks we’re gliding
Towards the brink of civil warfare and the gore of kin and
kith?
Or is it a bit of clowning
By a politician drowning
For the want of some press lifelines in the raging spa of
Smith? j
Have you noticed, Thirsty Reader, any sign of buc-
caneers ?
Smith is full of premonitions and of dreadful gory fears.
He is sure of something breaking,
So he’s shivering and quaking
On the brink of civil trouble, he is on the brink of tears ,
What will burst he doesn’t mention ;
His remarkable abstention
From all detail galls the voter who for shocking detail
peers.
Have you noticed voters arming for this blanky civil
war?
Have you seen the neighbors buying ammunition at the
store?
Have you heard of dark recruiting,
Watched the marksmen target shooting,
Seen the terrible rehearsals of the Buccaneering Corps?
(Can it be that mind-corrosion
Has just caused the dull explosion
Of a rusted muzzle-loader—some ridiculous smooth-bore ?)
Have you heard on tram or ferry any furtive talk of
blood ?
Have you noticed as you paddled through the city’s murk
and mud .
Any grim, forgotten trifles —
Cartridge shells or broken rifles ?
Or been told by great financiers that Capital would scud?.
Are there any indications
The Smithsonian narrations
Are good value for a “ tinker’s ” or a small brass collar
stud ?
In the hour before the battle—in the silent, watchful
truce,
Let us thank his pareful parents that this Smith was
christened Bruce;
In the dictionary’s pages
A great river of Smith rages,
Through the crammed and teeming columns “Smith”
goes pouring like the deuce ;
Smiths for recognition calling,
With their neighbors striving, brawling,
Down the overloaded pages like flood-waters through a
sluice.
Though his visions reek of fever and his trouble is a myth,
We can still explain the prophet drowning ’midst his kin
and kith ;
In the record of his screeches
Is an echo of the beaches,
When the half-unconscious swimmer sees his granite
monolith.
Sympathetic’lly inspected
The Alarmist, limp, dejected,
After rescue 6urns out merely to be plain distracted
Smith.
N.B.W.
FOE.


THE WONDERFUL
s
m 9
Closed as an ordinary Plano.
Open as a Player Piano.
The Player-Piano that is “Different.’
We sell on the Easiest Possible Terms.
Full value allowed for your ordinary Piano.
NICHOLSON 8 CO. LIMITED
SYDNEY and NEWCASTLE.
John Strange
Winter Toilet
Preparations
are delightful.
Write for
"COMELY
WOMAN”
Booklet.
The food
your hair
needs!
'HE Hair Food that gave to
1 Mrs. Stannard (John
Strange Winter), the well-
known authoress, who became
nearly bald, a fine head of
hair, soft, silky and incon-
veniently thick, is the Hair
Food you need. It promotes
hair growth, frees the head of
dandruff, and provides the
hair with the necessary nourishment.
If your hair is falling out, the wonders
worked for Mrs. Stannard, it will do for you.
you may now have a good head of hair, it is
that you should use John Strange Winter Hair
the hair, keeping it in good condition. A trial wi
value as a hair grower and preserver. Price
free, 3/-
this Hair Pood
And although
equally important
Food, for it feeds
11 prove its unique
2/6 bottle ; post
John Strange Winter NON-OILY Hair Food.
This Hair Food has the valuable properties of the ordinary
J.S.W. Hair Food, with the added advantage of being non-oily.
If your hair is naturally oily, or if you prefer a preparation that is
not greasy, this Hair Food meets the case splendidly. Price 3/6 ;
post free, 4/-
Sold by all Chemists and Stores, or direct from
John Strange Winter,
LONDON, PARIS and VIENNA.
Sydney Address—B2 PITT STREET.
Also Agencies at—
225 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
IM
Bowman Buildings,
Adelaide.
Richardson Cushion Frame, Anti-Jar Ball
Bearing Roller Skates.
Used exclusively in all of the largest and most successful rinks in America,
and by all the Champions of the World, fast and fancy. RICHARDSON
SKATES have held all World’s Records for 24 years. Write for Catalogue.
Tells how to open and operate Roller Rinks.
Richardson Ball-Bearing Skate Co., 31i Michigan Street, Chicago, U.S.A.
“RICHARDSON”
CHICAGO
( e\
PERSONALITY
ALONE IS
IMPREGNABLE.
Not brains alone, not ability alone
—for both can be bought —but
PERSONALITY counts in the
world to-day.
PERSONALITY has the
world at its feet; and PERSON-
ALITY characterises FARMER'S
TAILORING.
It possesses that undefinable something which
proclaims its wearer distinctively dressed.
The Smart Dressers rely solely on FARMER'S
TAILORING PERSONALITY.
We are exhibiting a Splendid Selection of Winter
Suitings now, in New Colorings and Designs.
Farmer's High-Grade and Skilful Cutters guarantee
every patron a perfect fit.
We will gladly mail to Gentlemen out of town a full
range of the New Season's Suiting Patterns Post Free.
Prices: 4 and 5 Guineas the Suit.
Business Suits To Measure from 3 Guineas.
FARMER & COMPANY Limited,
SYDNEY.
This is the Sig'nal to
BUY RAZORS.
We offer you over
5000 RAZORS
Made in Sheffield by Geo. Butler & Co.—a reliable firm established over
ioo years—a fair guarantee that they are pretty good. Made from
Fines. Quality Steel. The sort of Razor we feel proud of handling—hair
set, ready for us -.
If you shave every day, this Razor will please you.
Every Razor in a Proper Case, all for the sum of
ii-
SWEET BROS., LTD., give more under-price Specials than
any other House.
If you can equal these Razors that we are selling at if- anywhere else
under 3/6, quality considered, we will hand you your money back—but we
knovv r you will not find them elsewhere.
RAZORS—Shaving with pleasure is enjoyed only by those who possess good
Razors. Our Razors—the Razors of the Hour—are worth their Weight in Gold.
Every man who shaves owes it to himself to be fully informed about
the excellence and smooth-cutting quality of our
MASTERPIECE RAZORS, which we Sell, Complete in Case, for 1/-
Suppose, after reading this advertisement, you feel that YOU WANI A
GOOD, RELIABLE SHEFFIELD STEEL RAZOR, one that won’t
drag and pull your face all over the ship, and suppose you send for one to
try, it will only cost you 1/-
WE PAY CARRIAGE IN NEW SOUTH WALES.
Sweet Bros. L
td.
er
■Where Biz Hums,
Newtown
Sydney.


«•"-* ,OMM -
m
Charles Heidsieck
EEOIS
£XTRA DRV
FINEST EXTRA
World
Renowned.
Trade Mark.
STUHR'S
Finest Table Delicacies
Genuine Caviare.
Anchovies in Brine.
Peeled Shrimps.
Shrimps Extract.
Sold by all High-class Provision Dealers.
C. F. STUHR & CO., Hamburg.
English Export Agent: W.Lovegrove, London,E.C.
5*
&
R°Bor
You ever been to a tea party?
and had real Robur tea, like
muvve" has? She just loves
Robur ’cause it makes her feel
so comfy, and it won’t hurt
even tiny girlies to drink just
two spoonfuls in a cup of
milk—it is so good. Faver says
muvver likes it better an
anysing else in the world. Does
your muvver like it, too ?
Girlie.
QUALITY
BUCHANAN WHISKY
“BLACK & WHITE.”
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, February 20, 1911.
My Dear Arini,—
The Prowse- Brady wedding occurred last
Wednesday, at the Anglican Cathedra], and for a
space of the hot afternoon the bridal pomp, com-
bined with the “gallery” it drew, obstructed the
traffic in the neighborhood of the Town Hall. The
bride’s deep cream, gown and plain net veil have
already been in print. There was no break away
from the regulation bridal attire but the
shirking of the orange blossom adornment.
No sprig of the citrus-family flower was
in sight on the damsel’s white robe and
gold hair. Early and mid-Victorian brides
would as soon have gone without benefit of clergy
as without their orange blossoms. This Georgian
girl carried a sheaf of lilies of the valley, their
stems dressed as carefully as the bearer in white
satin. A black opal and diamond pendant she
wore was the gift of her mother, and the chain of
seed pearls from which it swung was the souvenir
of Mrs. (Dr.) Jamieson. If she had chosen to
wear half the jewels given her, the bride could have
outshone the altar tapers. One of her fingers was
kept cool by an uncommon ring of Powerful search-
light power. It was the Queensland Coldhams’
way of saying “ Good luck—wish you well.” Then
amongst other presents was a diamond bag-! Re-
port saj's it was not made of the real stones with
which (lancers are said to be won and kingdoms
lost; but report also says it never before saw one
like it. Her girl friends subscribed to give the
bride the most up-to-date and fully-furnished gold
chatelaine. Cigarette case, match-box, puff,
knife, lip salve, pencil were some of the attach-
ments mentioned. If there was a shoe-horn and
a sandwich-box, I missed them.
These are the details over which young feminine
Sydney gloats. Why shouldn’t it take an after-
noon off to gloat if it will? A dressing-case, with
his crest on all the silver fittings, was one of the
bridegroom’s presents to his bride. She recipro-
cated with a gold watch. Brother officers of the
groom gave a silver rose-bowl. His memento to
the bridesmaids was significant. A turquoise and
pearl bee went to each. Bridesmaids do buzz
rather blatantly whilst they help the queen bee to
gather honey—otherwise clothes and presents—
for the honeymoon. Two small boys, dressed as
sailors and each about the height of the claret jugs
the Chelmsfords presented, formed a joint of the
bridal tail. They were a little Tom Kelly and a tiny
Berry Hay. A five-year-old sister of the bride did
infant service as one of the bridesmaids. Two
young sapling Coldham girls (they weren’t brides-
maids, but just decorative units of the 250 guests)
were frocked in white muslin and crochet uncom-
monly fixed up, one with dawn pink satin, the
other with Frenchy little bows of light blue.
Their crochet bags were more uncommon than the •
gold kits women (whose husbands have big over-
drafts) carry about these noons and eves.
The Prowse newly-weds were the sixteenth
brace of honeymooners to go to Moonbarra, Mr.
Arthur Allen’s place at Port Hacking. They will
be back in Sydney presently, at the Australia,
where they have secured a suite for three weeks
before leaving for an Asiatic trip.
By the way, I cherish grave doubts at the back
of my strictly non-legal mind as to whether, at
this time of day, Moonbarra belongs to the Arthur
Allens at all. What of the doctrine of lonyi tern-
porispossessio ? If I settle down in a house or on an
island or what not, and make a practice of living
there, and, generally, am allowed to treat the place
as my own, and if this sort of thing goes on year
in and year out without any semblance of protest,
either on the part of the alleged owner or his
heirs, administrators or assigns, the invaded domi-
cile or island accrues to me. In my opinion, if
Moonbarra has not already accrued to the collec-
tive honeymooners of Sydney it is parlously near
doing so. The point is offered for the considera-
tion of Mr. Arthur Allen, free of charge.
The Macedonia arrived in Sydney on Sunday
from M.L. with Prince Leopold of Batten-
berg aboard, and seriously ill. He was hurried
off in an ambulance to the Terraces, where Dr.
McCormick reigns. The trouble is haemophilia,
a complaint which has carried off at least two
members of the young man’s family.
A cable in to-day’s papers tells of the en-
gagement of another M.L. girl heiress, Miss
Neville, to the Earl of Hardwicke. M.L. “Who’s
Who ” mentions only two Nevilles. One is
a Most Reverend, so it can’t be his daughter. A
Most Rev. is not likely to leave an heiress.
The second is Mr. Samuel Munson Neville, who
emigrated to M.L. in 1855 and was bullock-driving
till 1862, when he settled down to accommodation
house and hotel-keeping at Waiau. Later years
found him cattle-dealing and owner of the Glad-
stone run. All that progress simply reeks of red
gold-spinning. It should be his girl who is the
prospective countess. The belted earl of her
affections is the eighth of his line, and is aged 41.
According to Wellington Free Lance, our old
friend Mr. Robertson Clark has quitted the staff
of Maoriland’s Governor, and with his wife, Lady
Beatrice Clark, will come to Sydney for a halt
before leaving for Europe. Captains Hamilton
and Maitland are also tearing themselves away
from the Islington mansion of mirth. Hamilton
is engaged to be married to a Wairarapa girl
named Elgar. Nice name, but the only Elgar we
know is the composer of “The Dream of Geron-
tius ” and other Uplifting Musical Gigantics.
Hon. Robert Beresford, whom a cable men-
tioned last week as having utterly defeated Mr.
Anthony Drexel, of New York, in a boxing con-
test, was in Sydney a year ago. He is a tall, fair,
straight-featured young man whose fine muscular
development greatly edified the surfites of Manly.
I hear that Lord Richard Nevill is to leave for
England next month. The Duke of Norfolk has
asked him to come on his (the Duke s) staff for
the Coronation ceremonies. This particular
Duke is Earl Marshal of England, which is to say
he has the entire stage-management of such
gigantic pageants as Coronations, Royal funerals
and the like.
Dr. Osborne, whose engagement to Miss Olive
Atherton, of Melbourne, has just been announced,
is the only member of his vast family who belongs
to the medical profession. The male Osborne
mostly starts qualifying for the sheep business as
soon as he can crawl, though several are soldiers,
and one or two have tackled the law. The future
groom is a brother-in-law of picturesque Mrs.
Hope Osborne, whom Sydney sees when race
meetings and the like are in train. Miss Ather-
ton was here with her sister last skating season.
The beauty of the pair and their deftness on the
ice evoked considerable enthusiasm locally.
A friend of mine has been calling on a friend of
hers who has a fireless cooker, and she drags this
royal road to meal-preparation into my field of
vision : “It is an arrangement of a wooden box,
of any size, padded with straw on all sides, loose
straw in the box and two cushions for the final
stuffing. The food to be cooked is brought to the
boil in a saucepan or other vessel; the lid must
be tight on and there must be no vacuum in the
pot. When at boiling point the pots are placed
in the loose straw in the box, the lid is closed
down, and the mistress goes out for as long as she
pleases. When she comes home, the dinner is
cooked. I’ve never seen any of the results, but
this lady has used one of these fireless cookers for
over four years and saved her gas bills in conse-
quence. Of course, it won’t bake or roast, or make
cakes. It is a Scandinavian arrangement, I be-
lieve; but I’ve often seen it demonstrated in
American journals. Grace Burrows, of the Girls’
Realm Guild, is arranging for a practical demon-
stration, and there is to be another at the Kitchen
and Laundry stall (N.S. and Manly) at the Fete
in aid of the R.P.A.H. Nurses’ Home.”
I have several times mentioned this padded
cell (or sell) that is supposed to be a labor-saving
medium, but, like my friend, I have never bitten
any of the results. “It won’t bake or roast,” and
you must not try it on the cake or the scone or
the pie or the fish ! I’ve wrestled in spirit with
the fireless cooker, and can’t think of anything on
which you may try it with safety except corned-
beef, beet, a ham, and, say; a leg of soup.
Corned-beef, according to its poundage, and
beet-root are two items that take a sin
of a time to cook, but they and the ham
are not daily or even always weekly items in our
housekeeping. Once you put on the fish, potatoes
and cauliflower, and wait for them to come to
bubble point, you will have to see the Martha job
to the end. There won’t be time to run into
Sydney, or to call on Mrs. Lately-Wed, whose day
at home this is. If you tried the padded sell with
most food-stuffs you’d find them melted, or in
shreds, on your return from ‘‘as long as you
please.” Even Mrs. Holman, in her last de pro-
fundis on “ The Passing of the Servant,” does not
suggest the fireless cooker as a lessener of the
cook’s labor.
It costs threepence, I believe, to get to Bellevue
Hill by train. Moreover, the trams run at long
intervals—and take a long time over the running.
And probably Mrs. Holman liv,es some distance
from the tram. Going all that distance, and pay-
ing for it, to tear Mrs. Holman to pieces is out of
the question. The lady has not shown us in what
direction salvation lies in the matter of the
passing of the servant. But among the good
points in her second article is the fusillade
directed against the average architect as a labor-
making medium. Don’t most of us know the
cupboardless, shelfless cottage ? The comfortless
interior, with the very pretty exterior ? And
when there are shelves and hooks and pegs, why
are they put up out of easy reach of all but per-
sons who are seven feet high ? And why are the
door-handles put down so low—some three feet
from the floor ? It means stooping to polish the
knobs, and not every woman has a back with a
patent hinge.
Mrs. Holman quotes the Japanese as having no
necessity for sweeping because they change their
shoes before entering a house. Sweeping, I fear,
will always be a daily necessity for the Austra-
lians. We can’t abolish dust storms or rain storms
or put them under “adequate control.” Lockup
and shutter a dustless, spotless, uninhabited house
of (say) seven rooms for even a week. Then come
back, and the result of your sweeping and dusting
will give your hens a fine dust-bath. Co-operative
meal-providories are Mrs. Holman’s solvent for
the permanent departure of the cook. They
may come in time. As a necessary evil, of
course. Like the laundries that now shorten
by half the lives of our table cloths, lace under-
skirts, linen clothes, and everything else that
comes under their caustic soda touch. Above all,
and before everything else, should come the care
of the children of a household. Two or three
young children, even one baby, in a home—well,
nuflt sed. Mrs. Holman simply ignores an aspect
of women’s work that stands out like Wilson s
Promontory, and which may be no more glossed
over or royal-roaded than the jut on the Victorian
coast could be painted out of the way of shipping.
“If she,” says Mrs. Holman of the employer,
“ could bring herself to understand that the maid-
servant, as we know her, is going, never to
return, she would set her wits to meet the situa-
tion with active remedies.” Personally, I think
the serving-maid will return to us when her job is
made an eight-hour one. For any but the well-
off, who will have relays of maids, that only
partly solves the difficulty ; but for a small mercy
let us be thankful. Perhaps Providence may by-
and-bye send a large one that will be agreeable to
both mistress and maid.
A note from a correspondent:—
•WANTED, Refined young Lady Pianiste; must be
able to read and sing at sight. Salary, 10s.
per week. Music Warehouse.
The S. M. Herald lately printed that advertisement.
And the music warehouse will get her ; a dozen of
her. It’s not a “ situation,” you see. Violet and Sarah
are friends of mine. Violet, an artist to her finger tips,
holds a similar position to that advertised. She also
holds several medals, certificates and recollections of un-
just treatment by adjudicators. Violet’s salary was in-
creased last year.' She jrets 12s. 6d. per week now. Her
young man is a distinguished-looking aristocrat, who
goes in for poetrj' and drapery. He sells some of the
latter, and receives 455. per week. Sarah, poor girl, is
(whisper) a slavey. She earns HI per week, and is
“kept.” Her “intended” is a slaughterman, earning a
fixed wage of £4 2s. 6d. Later on, the aristocrat will
wait about the abattoirs to borrow half a crown from the
slaughterman, and the artist will be wearing the
slavey’s cast-off dresses. Yet a “ situation ” for Violet—
no thank you!
Sydney won’t have to wait till after Easter for
the lifting of Lenten dulness. The All Nations
Fair and Art Union, to be held immediately before
Easter in aid of the Alfred Hospital and Nurses’
Home, promises to be a bright event. In next
week’s Letter I’ll give you particulars of the Dolls’
Competition and prizes to be held in connection
with the F6te. Of if you don’t care to wait a
week, write to Mrs. Michaelis, Elizabeth Bay, for
information. That lady is lion. sec. of the Dolls
Stall committee. Already meetings of vari-
ous sub-committees have been held Mrs.
Pritchard Bassett’s, at Rose Bay, and at Strath-
field Council Chambers, Mrs. Richard Sly
presiding. Mrs. Alfred Milson presided at a large
meeting in the Killara Hall, and Mrs. J. S.
Brunton conducted another at Mrs. Innes Noad’s
house at Darling Point. An invitation gift after-
noon tea was held at Mrs. Saywell s place at
Brighton-le-Sands last Tuesday ; Mrs. Perry
helped the good work at a meeting at Marrick-
ville ; and Mrs. (Dr.) Matheson, of Cowper-street,
Waverley, gave a gift tea and musical afternoon
in aid of the Woollahra stall. Mr. T. F. Four-
drinier, the organising sec., won’t find his job as
easy as falling off a log ; but as nearly every well-
known name in Sydney appears on the committee,
the result of the F6te ought to be equally im-
portant.
Among the throng of Coronation trippers will
be Mr. and Mrs. Edward Stedman, of the firm
which has encouraged Australians to eat their
own boiled sugar instead of the foreigner’s. Very
ancient inhabitants are the Stedmans—very
ancient and very honorable, and with pockets
unusually wide open to the calls of charity. “ Mr.
.James,” sen., the present head of the firm, is a
veteran who camps at Manly, alongside another
commercial veteran —John Pope, of the Farmer
house. Between them these two can count almost
a century and three-quarters; yet it’s a bad day
when business doesn’t see them. The younger
member of the Stedman family leaves by the
Orsova.
A. I’. Canaway, the N.S.W. lawyer who has
just achieved the right to wear a silk kimono in
court, was at Oxford with B. R. Wise and Con-
sett Stephen, of Sydney. He went to Christ-
church, as the winner of a Tasmanian Government
scholarship.
Under the patronage of the Red Robe, the
Floral Fete in aid of St. Vincent’s Hospital began
its career in the hospital grounds on Saturday.
Mrs. Allen Taylor opened the F£te with a few well-
spoken uncommonplaees ; then she proceeded to
help the good work by buying at the various stalls.
Mrs. J. J. Smith has some rare bits of Scandi-
navian and Oriental work, picked up during her
recent travels; you may find them on the stall
which she runs in conjunction with Mrs.
Deerv. Mrs. (Dr.) Kenna’s cap of white
muslin with a wreath of purple clover
is an unconscious success of the A breath-
less moment came when the Cardinal went into
the tea-tent, carrying his Merry Widow hat and
followed by Mrs. Toohey, of Wahroonga, the hos-
pital secretary (Mr. Lane Mullens) and the Purple
Clover Cap. Mrs. Toohey gave Him two lumps
in his tea. And He takes milk. The lete will
run throughout”this-week.
Beturners by the Macedonia tell that the young
widowed Countess of Donegal got off at Colombo.
She said something about coming on here later.
Sydney has now a Boot Queen. A horse-shoe
of; orange-blossoms goes to Mr. .John Hunter,
sen., the Boot King. He recently married a
pretty manicurist.
That big, dark-eyed Cooma lad, Charlie Cole-
man, whom I mentioned in my last letter as
appearing in a minor part in “The Waltz
Dream ” at Daly’s Theatre, jumped steeple-
high in the same comic opera through the
original player damaging one of his lower
limbs. Coleman is now the Count Lotbar of
the production, and has a duet with Lily Elsie
and sundry other songs with divers others of the
extremely improper Austrian nobility. Coleman
longs to return to Australia in musical comedy.
Miss Louise A. Schwabe ought to demand from
the Senate a triumph for herself. She is the first
girl to pass the Dental Board exam. There were
66 candidates—63 men and three women. Nine
men and one woman (MissSchwabe) passed. The
fewness of successful candidates argues very stiff
papers, and complaints on this head are loud.
Reverting to the eel skirt. A man of my
acquaintance, lately returned from Terrigal, on
the N.S.W. coast, says that for the first time he
recognised that it had its A party
was ascending a precipitous view point, and at a
turning the wind struck upward with force enough
to blow the socks off the men, and wind their
coats about their heads. The tube skirts of the
women never turned a hem. If a rainstorm
had occurred and the women had to run
for shelter, my friend would have seen one of the
disadvantages of the tube. In my suburb a lady
of my acquaintance complained to me that since
the yard r and-a-half-wide skirt disease has fallen
upon the life of women, the charming short-cuts
to her home are barred to her. “Inow walk half
a mile instead of less than a quarter, for I can’t
step through the rail fences—except at night,
when the exhibition doesn’t matter.” I asked
her, in effect, why she, wore a sleeve for a skirt,
and she replied that one must be consistent.
A Maoriland man who recently stayed in
Sydney writes to say that our fashionable women,
with their huge hats, big busts and tight skirts
narrowing in at the ankles, are the most top-
heavy craft he ever sighted—with the excep-
tion of the Waratah. And he suggests that the
fashion be re-named the Waratah.
The record rental of £95 will be paid by
musician Gehde for the Town Hall on Good
Friday Night. The organ tax, the price for
stopping the chimes and the like inferior items will
run him into another £l2 or so. Then there are
the artistes to be paid. As his prices will be only
35., 2s. land Is., Gehde won’t make enough to
build a Dreadnought. The Town Hall people
are gluttons for money. When a man has to pay
so steep a rent, the artistes he hires must suffer.
London’s Empire Day people have started what
they call “ A League of Loyalists to the Pleadings
of the Peacemaker.” Their inspiration was the
following passage from “ Where’s Master?” (The
hound who was yanked behind Ed. Vll.’s bier is
supposed to be talking) :
And then, somehow, I couldn’t go on. For I remem-
bered Master and the way he talked to me at Biarritz
when I started to tackle a French poodle. “What a
typical Englishman you are, Caesar! ” he said, “ you can’t
meet a foreigner without beginning to growl. Now, look
here, I am tired of all this snarling and fighting, and
you’ve just got to make friends/’
The League has evolved a song which is ren-
dered by members on official occasions. A verse:
Near the end of life’s journey, we think, like the King,
Of the quarrels and strifes that lives clog ;
But through youth and young manhood we keep feuds on
wing.
Of the mind of the King’s little dog,
We at foreigners snarl. Germans, Russians and French
Get born the wrong side of the Channel ;
Might our force or fame wrench, ’tis for them to re-
trench ;
We like to show fight, strut, empanel.
Snarling’s doggish, 'tis clear ; it is royal to cheer
Men and nations through frost and through fog;
When will patriots see that ’tis better to be
Like the King, than the King’s little dog?
If misguided folks like Mylius merit gaol for
promulgating scandal about a live king, what
ough t to be done to those who cast ridicule on a dead
one by means of bathetic tripe like that ? Do you
think they should be stifled to death in Thames
mud ?
I used to think, till recently, that a knighthood
cost nothing—that it fell on a man like the gentle
dew of a J.P.-ship, an honor which, though
barren, is cheap. But now I know that even
knighthoods have to be paid for. Thirty pounds
is the figure ; and another £67 10s. for the coat-
of-arms that goes therewith. The £3O goes to the
Treasury, the arms-money to the Heralds’ Col-
lege. It must be peculiarly exasperating to
British Judges and so forth who, in most cases,
bitterly resent being forced to become knights,
to have to expend their cash on a gaud they would
rather be without. It is an instance of the way
Freetrade England puts taxes on everything.
There is even a tax on the cockades which hatters
affix to coachmen’s tall hats, and the Treasury
finds thousands who are ready to pay it. But
there is one thing to be said for England ; it
doesn’t yet levy a duty on dead bodies, as Genoa
once did in a time of stress.
I ran across Miss Grace Palotta last week, and
asked “How are you?” and before she could
reply continued, quickly: “How beautifully your
collar fits!” Chronicling one’s own very small
beer savors of ego-mania; but really the first
question was a superfluous one, for Palotta
bloomed like a pink rose. For that matter, the
comment on the fit of the collar of her white silk
tucked blouse might have provoked the time-
honored reply, “Queen Anne’s dead.” Good
collar fits are quite unusual. Palotta’s blouse had
a dandy little pocket over her heart area, and her
coat and skirt were of black serge with some
strategy in black-satin strappings. In “Seven
Days,” the piece now on at the Palace,
one of her frocks, a pale pink satin,
is the pink of grace—no pun intended,
though one looks obvious —for it is not cut
with that bight at the back of the skirt that is
the present fashion, and which makes for the
Hottentot and Chinese idea of female beauty.
On the corsage of this frock Palotta wears a big
bunch of lilies of the valley.
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.


11l
r-»
'r
M
m
m
r
%
&
m
■ r^'X
m
■x
r
v
o
mm
//
*
y
::: ■ !-
;Sx
yyyy. x
■ ':•. .. -. V
■■•i'-'.y
•:XC'
X;-'.
Ov'
iX
XV'
■V?-
$
SiltS
iti
&>
\. '57
iSCS
■AK
••:'A
is
Sv
Si
ss
%
K
%
m
':-h
;s
s
S
COBRA, ?she Floor Polish, is as
good as COBRA, Boot Polish.
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
With his magic
Makes for you
And the baby,
Bright and clever
Rivers where you
Row for ever,
Floating on a
Woolly mat
With the foxie
And the cat.
All aboard 1
Away we float
Down the river
In our boat 1


TO REMOVE WRINKLES.
Fake Gift of Remarkable Formula to Our
Readers.
Readers of The Bulletin who are annoyed with
disfiguring lines will be pleased to learn that a
famous London specialist, whose beauty-making
discoveries are widely used in every land, has
agreed, for a limited time, to send full particulars
and information about her remarkable home treat-
ment for the removal of wrinkles, absolutely free,
to all who write at once and mention this paper.
She has also very kindly consented to send with
the above the full formula for a marvellous com-
plexion lotion which was recently awarded a Gold
Medal by the Paris International Exposition. If
you have lines or wrinkles, or are troubled with a
bad complexion, we would advise you to write at
once to Madame Harriett Meta (Dept. 536), 143
Great Portland Street, London, W„ Eng. Inas-
much as Madame Meta makes no charge for giving
this information and formula, or for answering
inquiries from our readers, we would suggest that
postage be enclosed for reply.*
DUNLOP
GARDEN
s? *
<7%
Nfl
'•25
QfJ
£QE
THIS HOSE
is the Finest
that you can
obtain.
Its Quality
ensures Long
Wear, and its
Construction
no Kinking or
Bursting.
• •
Stocked by all Store-
keepers, but to get the
best results, specify
“ Dunlop ” Brand.
'* *
Sample Section on Application
at *
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.,
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide,
Brisbane, Perth, and Christ-
church, N.Z.
DUNLOP
w
CYCLE
TYRES
LADIES’ TAILORING.
The Latest Fashionable Styles in Costumes
trimmed with very wide braid; also
New Velvets, plain or with Stripes.
Ladies are requested to book their orders early to avoid disappointment at the
Well=Known
... House of
HAYWARD
525 George St., P .ZU, Sydney.
Write for Fashion Book.
jg~
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, February 20, 1911.
My Dear Yarrie,—
Nine members of the well-known and handsome
clan of Baillieu sailed by the Malwa on Tuesday.
.Six cabins de luxe had been specially fitted and
decorated in a scheme of green, gold, and white
for their accommodation. Instead of the ordinary
brand of wall-pocket bunk, nice little cots, en-
amelled in white and gold, and partly hidden
beneath scrumptious pale-green bedspreads, will
help them to sleep comfortably when rocking in
the cradle of the deep. Huge baskets of farewell
vegetation filled the Baillieu cabins with the
scent of the last roses of the drowning summer.
Also a colored person of the male sex has been
told off to attend to the large family during the
voyage, so they ought to be more comfortable
than they could be on the Gem. One looked at
the cabins deluxe and gazed upon the colored myr-
midon, and came to the conclusion that it is good
to have made a huge fortune by speculation on the
Stock Exchange and thereabouts. Good, in a
fleshly sense of the word, of course. Spiritually,
a Baillieu is, perhaps, in much the same plight as
the camel that can’t crowd through the eye of a
needle.
Vida Goldstein—in a sombre get-up of brown-
smiled teary smiles of farewell at her friends and
supporters, over the handle of a beautiful basket
of purple blooms. Amongst the other Coronation
hasteners were Mr. and Mrs. A. W. Dunlop. Mr.
Dunlop intends landing at Cairo and taking part
in come important lawn tennis matches.
The sensational scion of a noble English race is
missing from his Melbourne haunts, and is under-
stood to have steamered away to Colombo. But
nobody seems to have seen him go, and maybe he
will presently reappear on the scene, like a
Johnnie refreshed.
Mrs. Malaprop lives for ever, like Nebuchad-
nezzar the King. She is as immortal as Mrs.
Grundy. She was travelling the other morning
on a south suburban railway line, when a grim
lady acquaintance, remarking that the genial
dame had some difficulty in reading a letter,
wondered why she had never taken to glasses.
“ Well,” said Mrs. M., “ I did try a pair of post
nasals—but they hurt my nose.” A town coun-
cillor, who travels on the same line, must surely
be Mr. Malaprop. He was discussing with a
male friend the Coronation mission of Prime
Minister Fisher, and the other self-important
citizen argued that the P.M. could be more use-
fully employed in attending to his business in
Australia. The civic magnate thought quite
otherwise. He looked over the spectacles, and
said : “I can’t see that Fisher has any business
to speak of. I regard him as a sine qua non.”
But nobody in the carriage ventured a laugh.
There is a dignity doth hedge a Latin phrase,
even when it is misapplied.
The Carnival of the Canoes at Kew got the fine
weather prayed for by the committee. It happened
in a blaze of blue weather on Saturday. If you
went up the river in boat or canoe, you paid toll
at the bridge. Onlookers came by cab and motor,
and were dropped at the top of a terraced
cliff, but the view was worth the slippery
descent. It was like a grass-lined canyon
with a pageant of fluttering color in its depths.
About 8000 people clung to the steeply sloping
banks, and got a fine bird’s eye view of the quaint
water sports, including the Upset Coffin Race.
The special reserve was full of Yarra-side sassiety,
and a most energetic committee cunningly tapped
the crowd on behalf of the Kew and Yarra Bend
patients’ annual treat and the Carnival Fund.
One canoe was named the Hiawatha. Minne-
haha would have gone into hysterics to see it
shoot along. It was fitted with an unpoetical oil
engine which sputtered loudly. Some of the slim
craft looked as fragile as egg shells. They were
dainty as hatboxes lined with quilted satin. The
girls in most of the houses whose gardens
straggle down towards the river paddle about in
their easily-propelled vehicles. A summer-frocked
miss twirling the flashing paddles in her own
canoe attracts fhe roving male eye every time. The
management had not expected such a large, float-,
ing population, consequently there wasn’t enough
river for the sports. Spectators’boats blocked up
the fairway, and the officials and helpers had to
keep on hunting them. Such a success was it, in
spite of this one drawback, that it promises to
become a second Henley—which, despite the
mud-barge houseboats, is now a sort of marine
Melbourne Cup. .
Merchant Henry Berry, who is still in his early
70’s, is back from his honeymoon round Australia
and Maoriland. He married Mrs. Heffernan,
widow of a well-known doctor. They are installed
now in Otira, the Kew family mansion, which is
once more to hospitably shelter the well-amused
guest and keep him from the pursuit of the last
train as long as possible. The young Berrys are
now all grown, and planted in their own substan-
tial garden plots, or flourishing in foreign parts.
One Berry boy recently became matrimonially
attached to a New York millionaire family tree.
The combined wealth of the pair fills several
cellars.
Miss May Ingham, daughter of Parson Ingham
who is a pillar in the Methodist world, was mar-
ried to Norman Vial when a recent rainstorm was
doing its best to make things uncomfortable. It
was a cheerful, though damp, wedding. When
the time came for departing, the bride-
groom glowered through the curtain of rain
at the motor which thudded impatiently at the
door for its load ; then he lifted bride Maisie off
her small white satin feet and carried her off in
his arms through the storm. Stepmamma, who
owns so much of the earth’s crust that the land
tax is a bother, presented the bride with an acre
or two and a furnished house complete. The sub-
stantial gift is opposite Holgrave, the family home
at Elsternwick. The elaborate wedding feast was
spread in a marquee and tended by a picked bunch
of “ Chicago ” girls. Two grown-up bridesmaids
and two bridesmaidettes filled in the wedding
group.
The Bingham branch of the Madden clan in-
tends to follow the invariable rule of the Maddens
and have a full chorus effect for the wedding next
week. The event may be outlined thus: St.
Paul’s with its chimes, oceans of white satin, a
retinue of bridesmaids, and a reception at a popu-
lar tavern.
Mrs. Atherton and her two girls have given up
their suburban house and put up temporarily at
the Grand before joining the exodus Fogwards.
Fiancee Osborne, M. 8., etc., also has his bags
packed for the voyage.
At a nice quiet wedding the other day a young
bride-to-be was nearly left on the shelf, because
the minister had directed most of the marriage
service to the elderly bridesmaid. It dawned On
the real bride that something was wrong, and so
she lodged a mild protest, and her bridegroom
stopped the proceedings just in time to save him-
self from being hitched “ in the sight of
to the spinster who was carrying the heroine s
smelling-salts. One supposes that a man can t
get really married to the wrong girl in the sight
of the mundane Law, except in bellowdramas and
musical comedies. The impossible in mesalliance
has happened twice on the Melbourne stage of
late. At the Royal, it is still happening, in the
case of the attractive girl with the full set of teeth,
who gets wedded to a Silly Billy under the dis-
guise of a fly net or something.
The Earl of Hardwicke, who is, the cable says,
engaged to a Maoriland girl (Miss Neville), visited
the Dominion in 1909, though the title wasn’t
then part of his luggage. He came via America,
and wandered around Rotorua, and paddled up
and down the Wanganui, and then went back to
America, via Honolulu. I suppose he met his
heiress on those travels.
A matrimonial serio-comedy, which began at
the altar rails some time ago, has not yet been
acted to a finish. The bride who, of course, con-
sidered her wedding day the day of her life,
garbed herself magnificently in white satin and
orange blossom, and supplied a full chorus of
bridesmaids to match. She naturally expected
her bridegroom to be on hand in the usual frock
and underneath the usual belltopper; but she
found him instead waiting for her in a grey sac
suit and a green felt hat—unhallowed garments
with no poetry in them. She almost swooned and
protested bitterly re the utter unsuitability of his
costume. However, as the right man was there,
albeit with the wrong clothes, she bravely
went through with the ceremony. But there was
more trouble in store. After they had left the
church and were on their way homeward in a taxi,
the unconventional groom hastily jumped out to
speak to a friend, and left his wife to find her way
into the house quite several steps ahead of him.
The bridesmaids, tumbling along after them in
other petrol chariots, were incoherent with indig-
nation, and prophesied utter and complete misery
for both. Just at present the bride is residing
with mamma, and when the unconventional hus-
band rings up he hears only a tearful voice cry-
ing :“ I won’t speak to him—so there! ”
Mixed bathing is slowly making itself popular
at Brighton-on-Sea. “Small and select ” parties
of girls, with their men friends may be seen
“ indulging ”on almost all Sunday mornings. On
other mornings there is no time to hold up chins
and guide pretty bare feet over the rocky beach,
for business is business, and Bertie has to sprint
for the office. Most of the girls wear severe
Canadian suits and take their bath seriously. But
there is always a great crowd of bathers of all ages
at the end of a really hot day. Family parties are
most in favor—as yet. Four young women who
ventured down to the shore in bright French
bathing costumes, one late Sunday morning, drew
so many eyes that they huddled on their cloaks
and sought the seclusion of the ladies’ baths. In
the “dusk of the twilight” is the right time to
sport in the waves, according to the views of early
Victorian residents. But we shall get over that
in time.
Further down the.coast mixed bathing is much
more fashionable, and the pretty costume does
not draw a crowd. One smart .woman had a beau-
tiful curl carefully pinned tc* the front of her
bathing turban. A man observed it floating on
the crest of a wave. After a gallant rescue, he
was laughingly invited to “pin it on again”—
which he did. On the Wowser side of the argu-
ment, it must be admitted that, so far, Melbourne’s
public-holiday mixed bather is a person to be
avoided. Like a church bazaar or a licensed vic-
tuallers’ picnic, a social gathering in the sea is
just what the motley gatherers'choose to make it.
Word has just come from India, that Mrs. T.
H. Kelly, of Sydney, and the Hon. Mrs. Hore-
Ruthven (you will remember that her husband
and his V.C. were On the G.-General’s staff till
recently) narrowly missed what the daily news-
papers call “ a violent and awful death” last
month. They were driving together at Umballa,
when something frightened the horse and it
bolted. After a brief but feverish passage the out-
fit brought up against a tree and shattered itself
and dispersed theinmates. Theladieswereremoved
to an adjacent hospital in an unconscious condition.
The language of the tree, which was torn up by
the roots and maimed for life, is unfit for publica-
tion. Those who have seen the ruined vehicle,
the devastated tree, and the general aspect of
riot that distinguishes the zone of trouble, are
amazed that either of the ladies survived. Mrs.
Hore-Ruthven’s husband watched the smash from
the golf links near-by, but was unable to do a
thing to avert it.
J. J. Hammond, of the Bristol biplane, who
had a lovely time in the air at Altona last Saturday
morning, is a Maorilander by birth. Age : Some-
what on the sunny side of 30. Condition : Mar-
ried. Mrs. Hammond 'is a dear little woman,
who also flies, and will be presently seen, she says,
gliding over Melbourne in hubby’s company. It
is to be a Bristol biplane-advertisement trip.
Beauteous Hal Cohen, once of Melbourne, is
said to owe the success of his recent recital at the
Bi Ostein Hall (London) to three years’ unremit-
ting study under Charles Lederer, a fine musician
and famous teacher. A fellow student with Hal
(now converted* into “Harold Colonna”) was
Miss Elinhirst Goode, who lately returned to
Melbourne. She speaks of maestro Lederer and
his method with unbounded enthusiasm and
gratitude. Lederer, in her estimation, is just It.
When “Jimmy” Russell, of Barunah Plains,
died the other day Victoria lost one of its most
notable stock-raisers. He had schemed over
the breeding of his merinos till there
was more wool than sheep. An English-
man always laughs at the Australian mutton
chop for fenglish sheep are bred for meat, while
the Australian’s chief concern is fleece. In
this respect James Russell had such a reputation
that pastoralists used to send to him from all over
Australia. Though he had been in Victoria for 30
years, Mr. Russell’s accent remained as thick as
porridge. He went back to Scotland recently
on a health trip, but died soon after his return.
Surgeon o : Hara departs next month to England
for a holiday, and with him go Mrs. O Hara and
two of his quiverful of girls.
Mary Conly, our distinguished soprano, will
concert in the Town Hall on Wednesday, March
1 The Victorian Festival Choir, under the
baton of Freddie Beard, will back up the lady m
the Inflammatus. Earp, a baritone, will also
assist, and Kerry will thunder at the organ.
Prime Minister Fisher and G.-G. Dudley are
very good friends, personally as well as in Cabinet.
From Fisher’s watch-chain dangles a fine jewel
set in diamonds. I understand the expensive-
looking trifle was pressed upon him by the Karl
as a token of friendship.
When a man of property leaves a will and pro-
vides for everything but unlikely contingencies,
he supplies material for a lot of troublesome
argument. Chemist Buckhurst left many pieces
of silver and much valuable property behind him
when he died. The grey South Yarra mansion,
Goodrest, with its surrounding park and shrub-
beries in the most delectable part of the riverside
suburb, was bequeathed to the Melbourne Hos-
pital for a nurses’ home. The will specified that
if the place were not used for that purpose it
should pass to the widow. The hospital people
now declare that the fine place is too expensive to
keep up as a nurses’ home; yet they are naturally
reluctant to let it drop out of their'-hands. So
they want IVlrs. Buckhurst to take the place, sell
it and give them have half the proceeds.
Buckley and Nunn, of Bourke-street, start at
once upon an entirely new four-storey edifice, and
those who have seen the plans agree that it is to
be the finest ornament of the street. This pro-
claims again the victory of Bourke-street. Haifa
century ago the battle was between two Collins-
street firms (Alston and Brown and Moubray and
Lush) on the one side, and two in Bourke-street
(Buckley and Nunn and Robertson and Moffat)
on the other side. The victory was won for the
plebeian thoroughfare long ago ; and this new
shop is a sort of commemorative Arch of Triumph.
Alfred Hospital raffle-tickets are fluttering
everywhere, and decoying citizens’ cash out of
their pockets in defiance of the wowsering anti-
raffle law, The last one I saw represented a
chance for an Upright Grand piano, given by a
charitable city firm. So far my listening ear has
not heard any protest. I wish someone would
donate a horse and let the hospital try and raffle
that. I have an idea that the wowsers regard
the raffling of an upright, high-toned musical in-
strument as a perfectly moral proceeding, but
look upon the raffling of the fast animal with four
hoofs as Infamy.
It takes an up-to-snuff century to develop the
poetical aspect of a cold in the head. However,
it has been done. A particular rose has been
found, the perfume of which will cure catarrh.
The bloom is called the Duke of Edinburgh, but
it cannot help that; and anyhow the name doesn’t
interfere with its curative powers. You fill the
patient’s room with bowls of roses till the air is
deliciously scented —simply that, and nothing
more. If you happen to catch your catarrh when
there are no Dukes in the garden, I suppose you
just have to inhale bottled eucalyptus as usual.
Charles Morell’s “Modern Singing Method,” a
book whereof Melba said, “I welcome its publi-
cation,” is now on sale at Allan’s. “The Singing
Tutor,” as it is called, runs to 124 broad pages,
and gives practical instructions and exercises upon
breathing, voice production and warbling. All
that a would-be artist wants to know about the
making and management of a Voice is in the
book, 100 pages or so being devoted to musical
exercises, and the others to directions in letter-
press. It is published in high and low registers,
and the price is 4s. An advt. circular issued with
each book is unconsciously humorous, for under
the heading “ How to Sing ” appears a picture of
Caruso, with his left hand pressed against his
heart, his mouth wide open and his eyes upturned
as though in the agonies of death. As an illus-
tration of how not to look when you are delivering
a top note, this ghastly picture of the Italian
gentleman should give the finishing touch to a
student’s education.
From “ Rosna ” of Adelaide :
Alec Morison, first aide to the Mayor, is back from
Colombo. Which reminds me that our Admiral Excel-
lency is importing a new help. His name is Captain
Walker, and he will be with us ere this screed sees print.
The impending crowning is rapidly reducing Adelaide
to a hollow blank and a desert waste. The Peter Woods
are packing; Mr. and Mrs. Charlie Hayward and their
bairns went last week ; and Mrs. Pearce, from Glenelg,
with a pair of olive branches, follows. The Malwa also
carted off the Delprats, mother and a medico daughter.
They intend to join the Delprat maiden who fiddles in
B jsy S the way, the Sydney papers successfully engaged
Dr. Douglas Mawson to every member of the Delprat
family but the right one. The rightful fianeOe is the
youngest, Paquita, whohas reached the advanced age of
18. An unfeeling press tried to burden her with all sorts
of learning and alphabetical obstructions.
Other gadders are the Keith Bowmans, their babies and
their motor-car. They ** squat ”at Poltallach, when they
are not flatting it high up among the stars at the top of
their brand-new edifice in King William-street. Poltal-
lach’s furnishings are to be sold, and the whole home-
stead rejuvenated when the travellers return.
Just as the preceding paragraph was being written
came the news of the sudden death of Mr. T. R. Bowman,
one of the heads of the Poltallach clan, a very early
pioneer and good philanthropist. Twenty-two local
charities draw something like £45 a year apiece as a re-
sult of the dead man’s munificence.
Miss Eva Minchin, formerly of this city, but lately
dwelling in Westralia, leaves for Singapore shortly to be
married to Frank Hargrave The family will just rush
back to S.A. in time to see son Max wedded to
Annie Scott, a Mannum damsel. Another engagement
interesting to this-siders is that of popular Janie Black-
more (daughter of our erstwhile Clerk of the Assembly)
and Dr. Sharp, of Sydney. . ;
The Government has decided to acquire Moorak, which
is down among the defunct volcanoes at Mount Gambier.
It belonged to the late Colonel Browne, who dwelt
there, however, only once in a blue moon, and spent
most of his last years in Britain. He left here in the
Waratah, together with a delicate English niece, who had
been looking for health at Moorak. There is a yarn that
I don’t know how many other members of this damsel’s
family have been lost at sea.
We have heard of the Bab Ballads gentleman, who
wore pewter underclothing; but an Adelaide Sassiety
dai*e can go one better. She is roaming abroad, advising
Coronation gadders to wear nothing but black silk night-
gear. By this system, she explains, no change of gar-
ments will be necessary between Adelaide and London 1
She claims to have done a six months’ trip to the Con-
tinent on two outfits.
Adelaide is going in for fenceless public parks and
gardens. As soon as Government House is seized for
University purposes, the high old ivy-grown wall will be
swept away and the garden given to the public. The
memorial statue to King Ed. will be erected there. The
present parade-ground is also to have lawns and flower
beds planted over its countenance. The Military Staff
offices and deer, t Destitute Buildings are Vo be removed,
and the Jubilee Oval converted into a happy hunting
ground for the ’Varsity, Museum, Art Gallery, etc.
The new Arcadia Cafd was opened last week. It is
situate in the basement of the fine, new' Bowman Arcade,
and is a cool and excellently ventilated spot, ablaze with
flowers and mirrors and white-garbed waitresses. Rumor
avers that £lOOO has been spent on silver and cutlery,
and 1000 customers a day will he needed to make it pay
for its board and lodging.
It has been suggested that instead of lunching the
hungry pioneers on future Commemoration Days
(December 28), there shall be held atGlenelg an historical
pageant descriptive of the progress of the State since
Governor Hindmarsh first declared it a Province. It is a
good notion, for the luncheon is becoming something of
a fiasco—and most of the real pioneers are permanently
residing in another climate, anyway.
Adelaide lost a veteran cleric last week in Canon Webb,
who for 35 years had shepherded the faithful at Clare, the
beautiful little northern honeymoon town.
A fine old South Australian matron, Mrs. Mary Ann
King, died last week. The local obituaries, which name
all her children and their residences, read like a page out
of an up-country directory. The old lady had acquired
77 years, 8 children, 50 grandchildren, and (so far) 13 or
the fourth generation.
Sincerely yours,
JOHANNA.


1
Should the
Face be
Powdered ?
There is scarcely a
household in the civil-
ised world but some
of its members use pow-
der. But it must not be
supposed that the use is
prompted by vanity. So
many men use it after
shaving; surely no one can
accuse man of vanity!
There is a sound reason for
the use of powder, as there
is a theory for its use. Whose
skin is inclined to
dryness should use
“fat” powders.
Whose skin is moist
or inclined to greasi-
ness should use “ab-
sorbent” powders.
The science of medi-
cine has long ago re-
cognised the neces-
sity for this distinc-
tion. It has, how-
ever, been left to
Mile. Helena Ru-
binstein, the Vien-
nese Complexion
Specialist, to be the
first toapply it to the
practical purpose of
the care of the com-
plexion. For, say
what one may, hear
what one may, it
would be flying in the face of well-settled
facts to deny that the use of a high-class
face powder is of the greatest benefit to
the preservation of a satisfactory com-
Ur
/-V o^-.
’ aL sta-ttuj
CK<
G Ac. -f
Xj~ o-v-b C*.
*"*"? *""**- «■— f U^c^O-Ck^
*->r ft»ii. e«u~
*>£,<•. -
O'-L. e '^.i s Ar>v
fct> ( *■» ~Z>-e^~,
plexion. Powder is not merely a comfort,
but also a protectoj to the skin from all
external irritations. But here, as in other
numberless instances, it is necessary to find
the right preparation.
Mile. Rubinstein, who has had the good
fortune to introduce the Skin Food, Valaze,
has had the further good fortune of having
had this eminent specialist to prepare for
her the Valaze Powder, in which is em-
bodied a high percentage of the ingredients
of which the Valaze Skin Food is composed.
When that has been said, no higher assurance
of its value can be
given, because
Valaze is by general
consent the one
Complexion Beauti-
fier and Corrective,
without which it is
impossible to do
justice to the skin
whatever may be
the season of the
year, or whatever
may be the climate.
Valaze Powder is
an “absorbent”
powder, the ad-
hering qualities of
which have become
proverbial amongst
those who use it.
Although it ad-
heres so well, it does
not clog up the
absorbent it still
of the skin’s super-
Mlle. Rubinstein
pores, and although
promotes evaporation
fluous moisture.
The other powder
supplies is Novena Poudre, which is a
“ fat ” complexion powder for dry and
normal skins, being the only powder of its
kind which is a skin food as well. It
causes the skin beneath it to remain succu-
lent, firm and supple. The price of each
powder is the same, and both are to be
had in four tints—flesh, white, pink and
cream.
In the left corner of this article is the
likeness of Miss RUTH VINCENT,
Queen of the Savoy, she has been called,
and surely the sweetest of sweet singers.
In the “ Belle of Brittany ” now running
in the Queen’s Theatre, she is the bright
particular star.
Concerning the
Valaze Powder she
writes that it is
very refreshing and
the best she has
ever used.
Miss LILY
ELSIE, of Daly’s
Theatre, who has
the happy distinc-
tion of creating the
name part in the
most successful
musical comedy
ever seen in Lon-
don—a n d how
inimitably she re-
presents the ever-
fascinating “Merry
Widow ” the whole
world knows—says
in the letter reproduced under her like-
ness, that the Valaze Powder is exception-
ally good. The price is 25., 3s. & ss. a box.
TiUWIOWI OiMUN
auatuiaa iittiri
• ■ MAHKIO WIWTI
VTAOft tMNAoan'a cwarthM**
OAIV* THEATRE
UICESTEa SQUARE.
CONOQR.W.
uJwtli
'cJmvA *"M«W
rJcroJ^
_ \ . t ‘ 'l 111
x xy*^
Q/£.
rtrriu '
A preparation
which should be
mentioned when
powders are spoken
of is Valaze Snow
Lotion. It not only
refreshes, cools and
whitens the skin in
hottest weather, but also
enables it to retain that
dull, ivory finish so much
sought after. The price
is 3s. 6d. a bottle. Post-
age 6d.
The tonic properties of the
Valaze Skin-food
mentioned before
keep the skin in
healthy stimulation,
with the result that
the skin is always
sound and supple,
free from wrinkles,
muddiness and blot-
ches. The price of
Valaze is 3s. 6d.
and 6s. 6d. a jar.
Postage 6d.
Mile. Rubinstein’s
interesting book,
“Beauty in the
Making,” can be
obtained from her
on application, en-
closing 3d. for post-
age.^
The Valaze Pre-
parations are to be had of all Chemists, or direct
from Helena Rubinstein Prop. Ltd., Dept.
20, Valaze Institute, 158 A Pitt Street, Sydney ;
274 Collins Street, Melbourne.
ARDATH
LONDON
\VI hIfRED"
VIRGINIA
CIGARETTES
r
Types of
British Manhood.
The CRICKETER
finds his consolation for a
“ duck ” in the speedy return
to “Winfred” Cigarettes
A good cigarette being one of tbe
most enjoyable things in which
a man can indulge, our whole
time is occupied in producing
the finest it is possible to make.
No particular price is our aim;
our first attention is the quality- —
then we fix the lowest price we can
10
6d.
20
1/-
Plain or Gold Tipped
Obtainable of all leading Tobacconists,
Stores, Clubs, Hotels. &c., throughout
Australia.
Sole Manufacturers:
ARDATH TOBACCO CO.,
LONDON.
*
The vStove that makes
Cooking a Pleasure !
NEW PERFECTION
blue flame wick
OIL COOKING STOVE*
On Sale at all Dealers or write direct to
VACUUM OIL CO. PTY., LTD.
Throughout the Commonwealth and New Zealand.


EXCLUSIVE
DESIGNS.
A. SAUNDERS
CHARMING
Conceptions
A. SAUmJERS.
Get Gold BRACELET, Set Pearls, Amethyst, or Topaz,
£3.
©
tt
A. SAUNDERS.
15et Gold 2-Bar SCROLL BROOCH, Red
Stone and Pearls, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, set 8
Diamonds, and
Ruby, Sapphire, or
Black Opals, £3O
A. SAUNDERS.
9c t Gold, 3-stone
Cross-over
RING, set Pure
Double-cut Dia-
monds, £ lO-
A. SAUNDERS.
ISct Gold, Double
Row, Halt-hoop,
Bet 6 Diamonds and
6 Rubies, Sap-
phires, or Olivines,
£6/10/.
A. SAUNDBKS.
9ct Gold BAND
RINGS, set Red,
Green, or Blue
Stones, 20/-
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, set Dia-
monds, Rubies, or
Sapphires, £3-
Larger Diamonds,
£3/10/.
A. SAUCERS.
18ct Gold, Dia-
mond Cluster,
£7/10/.
Larger Diamonds,.
£lO,
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct CRESCENT and STAR BROOCH,
Fine Pure White Double-cut Diamonds
and Rubies or Sapphires, £ 10-
A. SAUNDERS.
15et Gold “Lily of the Valley” SPRAY
BROOCH, Fine White Pearls,' £4.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold LINKS, 17/6
15ct Gold LINKS, 357-
Silver, 4/6-
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold PENDANT,
set Fine White Pearls
and Peridot or Tour-
malines, £ 3/15/-
A. SAUNDERS.
loct Gold BROOCH, Fine Pure White
-Double-cut Diamonds, £lO-
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold CIRCLE
BROOCH, set with
Pearls, 32/6.
IT"
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold
PIN and
STUD,
Pearl and
Diamond,
35/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold CHARM,
set Pearls and Red
or Blue Stones,
17/6.
Larger, 22/6.
Gold EMU
CHARM.
Gold
Knob Chain
and Metal
Pin, 5/6-
With Gold
Pin, 7/6.
25/-
30/
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Solid Silver Hunting
Keyless AVATCH. J-plate. full
jewelled, Patent Adjusted
Balance, 2J»/- Extra Jewelled
Movement, 30/. Guaranteed
One Year’s Free Repair.
20/-
20/-
v.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Nickel Open-Face Keyless WATCH,
Full Jewelled, Patent Adjusted Balance,
Non-magnetic, Dust and Water Proof Oases,
20/-
Guuranteed 1 Year’s Free Repairs.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold EAR-
RINGS, Set with
Tourmalines,
£2-
OUR
OPTICAL WORK
IS THE
FINEST IN
THE WORLD.
CATALOGUES
OF EACH
DEPARTMENT
SENT,
POST FREE.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold SPRAY and CLUSTER
BROOCH, £2/5/.
9ct Geld
HAT PIN,
l(>/6.
A. .SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold,
Pearls and
Diamonds,
30/
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct Gold COMPASS.
PENDANT, 12/6-
y
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold EARRINGS,
set Pearls and
Garnet, 12/6-
SC*
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold CIRCLE BROOCH,
set Pearls and Turquoise,
25/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold 2-Bar BROOCH, Amethyst Centre,
20/.
15ct Gold, £2.
«s
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold 2-Bar BROOCH, Diamond,
Red or Blue Stones, 201 ■
S)
r !
A. SAUNDERS.
Bet Gold LINKS, 30/.
15ct Gold, 40/-
Initials Engraved Free.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold PENDANT,
set Pearls and 'Tur-
quoise, £2-
15ct Gold, £3/10
A. SAUNDERS.
get Gold BRACELET, Set Diamonds and Rubies or
Sapphires, £2/15/-
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold 3-Bar SCROLL BUCKLE BROOCH,
20/-
» a
A. SAUNDERS.
18et, Half-hoop, Pure
Diamonds and Opals,
£T».
A. SAUNDERS.
'lBct Gold, c:t Pure
|Double-cut Diamonds,
Rubies, or Sapphires,
£3/5/.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, Diamonds
and Rubies or Sap-
phires, CLUSTER
RING, £l2/10/.
A. SAUNDERa
9ct. Gold, Claw-set
RING, Garnet, Ame-
thyst, or Garnet,
25/.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, set Dia-
monds and Ruby or
Sapphire. 30/-
A. SAUMJUKS.
18ct. Gold,
set Diamonds, Rubies,
or Sapphires,
Half-Hoop Ring,
£5.
A. SAUNDERS.
9et Gold Fancy Basket Pattern BRACELET, Stron
Safety Chain. attached, £3/10/-
A. .SALiiNu i'.RS.
Gold 2-Bar BROOCH, Diamond and
Rubies or Sapphires, 25 /•
.•-IN
TO!
3U
A. SAUNDERS!.
Solid Gold EXPANDING WATCH BRACELET, Lever
Movements, Full Jewelled, Accurate, Reliable,
£6/10/. x
Extra Jewelled Movement, £7/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold SAFETY PIN, with Patent
Non-breakable Joint, o/O-
Larger, 8
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver SOVEREIGN
PURSE, 12/0-
Smaller, S/6, 10/.
Solid Gold NECKLACE,’set Fine Pure White Pearls
and DiamOnd-cut Tourmalines or Pei loots,
£7/1‘»
With Diamonds, £l5-
50/-
50/-
a
Hi!!.
Gent’s Patent Gold-cased Hunting Keyless
Waltham WATCH, Full Jewelled, Com-
pensation Balance, £2/10/*
With Extra Jewelled Movement, £3.
Guaranteed 2 years free repairs.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold TRACE MUFF CHAIN, £4/10/. £5/10/
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold Engraved
TIE-CLIP, 10/6-
Plain, 10/.
y~~>
1
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver MATCH-
BOX, a Neat Design,
5/6-
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold BROOCH, set Pearls and Tourma-
line or Peridot, £2-
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Half-round Half-chased Bamboo BRACELET,
Strong Safety Chain attached, £JS/10/.
Heavier, £3.
JEWELLER,
clock
i MAKER A
1
SYDNEYS LEADING JEWELLER.
807.809.811.815.815^17.GE0RGE ST. (Opposite Railway Sration) SYDNEY,N.S.W.
SILVERSMITH
cO HSULTI% I
i


IF you could multiply yourself and v-isit every ocean passenger steamer
to-day, every capital city throughout the world and every tourist
district, you would find Kodaks everywhere. It yields to no other
camera in universal favor; it is not confined to the borders of any nation;
it has no language restrictions. It gives pleasure to all classes, everywhere.
You ought to Kodak. When time hangs heavily on your hands you can
take your Kodak with you into the highways and byways, and secure
charming pictures with the greatest ease. Duil days are brightened, home
associations are pictured and preserved, and life is made happier by the Kodak.
Kodak photography is daylight photography —simple, certain and fas-
cinating.
Ask the Kodak dealer in your town for further details, or write us for
a free copy of the Kodak Catalogue giving full details.
No. 3a FOLDING BROWNIE 425.
The No. 3a Folding Brownie is an inexpensive
camera, giving pictures of postcard size. It
has a simple and effective automatic focussing
device, ever-set shutter with bulb and trigger
release, reversible finder, Iris diaphragm, and
first-class single or rapid rectilinear lens, at
the purchaser’s choice.
Prices—With Single Lens, £2 2s. ; with
Rapid Rectilinear Lens, £2 10s.
Postage extra. Is. 3d.
No. 3a FOLDING POCKET KODAK, £4 10s.
The No. 3a Folding Pocket Kodak is the most
popular of all cameras ; takes the full-size post-
card picture, 3|in. x 54in. Provided with
every feature for the most serious work, yet so
simple as to be effectively handled by a novice.
Equipment includes double rapid rectilinear
lens, Kodak automatic shutter, automatic
focussing lock, brilliant reversible finder and
tripod sockets.
Postage extra, Is. 3d.
Price, JB4 10s.
■ft
MM
fcSgW&i;*:
drar
■ .
■> «•-»•'
If it isn’t an Eastman,
it isn’t a KODAK !
KODAK AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
379 George St., Sydney.
‘The Block,” 284 Collins St., Melbourne.
Incorporating: Baker
& Rouse Prop. Ltd.,
37 Rundle St., Adelaide.
78-80 Queen St., Brisbane. Ruthven St., Toowoomba. Flinders St., Townsville. 346 Argent St., Broken Hill. 6 Mercer St., Wellington, N.Z.
SSjiir
sin
sj
7 *
y
K
L
Alcock Billiard
Tables excel.
Consult any competent judge of billiard tables, and . he’ll
promptly tell you that there are no tables equal to “Aleock’s.”
Many of the leading billiard matches have been played on
these tables—the match between George Gray and Fred
Lindrum, jun., when Gray scored 836, 831 coming off the red,
thus establishing two world’s records, and for which Gray
received a gold medal, is an example. This score is another
proof of the marvellous accuracy and perfect construction of
our billiard tables.
Each table is fitted with Imperial Low Cushions, and
bears our trade mark.
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.
ALCOCK & CO. Pty. Ltd.
397 George St., Sydney; 114 Edward St., Brisbane; Lower Cuba St., Wellington
155 Elizabeth St., Melbourne; 7 King William St., Adelaide; Murray St., Perth
- [5
6 SHOTS
BY THE PRESSURE
OF YOUR FINGER!
SELF-LOADING RIFLES
.32 and .35 Calibers
THE TRIGGER-CONTROLLED REPEATER.
HERE is nothing- to take your mind off the
game if you shoot a Winchester Self-Loading
Rifle. The recoil does the reloading for you,
which places the complete control of the gun
under the trigger finger. You can shoot six shots as
fast as you can pull the trigger and without taking your
eye off the sights. As this rifle is made with a detach-
able magazine, you can replace an exhauted one with
a loaded one in a jiffy and continue shooting. No
recoil-operated rifle but the Winchester offers this
advantage. Other desirable and distinctive features of
this rifle are —a stationary barrel with sights attached,
and a l l moving parts enclosed. The .32 and .35 Caliber
cartridges have great killing power, making them
heavy enough for the ordinary Australian game.
WINCHESTER GUNS AND AMMUNITION—THE RED
w
BRAND-SOLD EVERYWHERE


OILMD’S
KALYDOR
FOR
THE
SKIN
Produces soft, faiv, delicate skin, heals all
cutaneous eruptions, and insures a lovely
delicate complexion to all who use it.
2/3, 4/6, of Stores and Chemists.
British and Colonial
Aeroplane Company Ltd.,
BUILDERS OF THE
Bristol BIPLANES
as used throughout Australia by
MR. J. J. HAMMOND,
and also by other World-Renowned Aviators.
Sole Agents for Great Britain and Colonies for
lhe Ct,ebraled GNOME Engines.
THE RUSSIAN ARMY HAS ORDERED
EIGHT BRISTOL BIPLANES.
For Exhibitions and Particulars apply
SYDNEY E. SMITH, Manager,
Menzies’ Hotel, Melbourne.
REQUENT THROBBING- HEADACHES.
• II
There’s many a
cause. Men are not
often troubled by
headaches; when
they are it is gener-
ally due to biliousness
or indigestion. But women have
headaches which seem peculiar to
their sex, frequent throbbing
headaches. Does it not seem that
such headaches peculiar to women
must be at once related to womanly
disease? Women who suffer with
diseases peculiar to the sex do not
realise the drain of vital strength and
nerve force they undergo as a con-
sequence of disease. It is this that
causes the headaches of sick women.
In other cases these pains and dis-
agreeable feelings are generallysymp-
toms of some other complaint, such
as indigestion, biliousness and constipation, allot
which are caused by corrupt, noxious matter
clogging the circulations ; hence a stream or rusn
of blood to the head, and by the excitement a
great pressure on the brain. Giddiness, headach ,
loss of memory, dimness of sighb
other complaints are the result. Thus. it will be
seen that all the above painful and distressing
maladies owe their origin to the blood. vr '
Morse’s Indian Root Pills are acknowledged to
be the only medicine that will thoroughly pur ty
the blood. They enter the stomach and unite
with the blood, and follow the stream of Me on its
journey through the system They root out all
foulness and impurity, and drive out every
healthy obstruction. They should be taken every
night in sufficient quantities to operate freely 0}
commencing with two pills on going to bed three
the next night; four the next; rhesyrnpjomsare
not removed, commence again with twopbf'
go up again as before. Continue in like mann
until the blood is thoroughly purified, and all pain
and distress is entirely removed.
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE.
NO PRESERVATIVES.
Agents—KtCHAKP MIMES & CO.,
West Australian
Brewery and Offices :
Dowling Street, REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Mr. Marks, owner of Culwulla 11., pot a shock
the other day when, after mature consideration, the Syd-
ney Royal Yacht Squadron upheld the action of the Vic-
torian yachting' authorities in connection with the North-
cote Gup fiasco. It seems that the Victorian governing
body had full authority to postpone the fixture, and
there was grave doubt whether the Victorian representa-
tive could have got to the starting point in face of the
weather, let alone sailed the race.
* * * *
Queensland cricketer Jack Hutcheon, who has
skippered the northern State's team in most of the inter-
state matches this season, and has proved himself the
best captain Bananaland has ever had, goes Fogwards to
a billet in the Queensland Agent-General’s office soon.
He has hitherto earned a crust as a clerk in the Depart-
ment of Agriculture and Stock.
* * * *
Dr. Hordern, the “ googly ” who took 13 Vic-
torian wickets in the last inter-State match, played in
Sydney grade cricket in 1905-6 with North Sydney. He
left Australia for U.S.A. in 1906 to study dentistry, and
visited England with the Pennsylvanian team of cricket-
ers. In that tour Hordern bagged 110 wickets at a cost
of nine runs per wicket. His next visit to England was
with a Philadelphian team in 1908, andhe'did pretty well
then too. He hooked his degree in America, and then
brought his beautiful clothes and an acute Yankee drawl
back home to Australia.
v * * *
“ 0.K.” : Suffered an hour and a quarter of the
fourth Test match on the first day. Bardsley and Kelleway
were on deck, and, although they seemed never to be
troubled by the bowling, their batting had no ginger in
it. Kelleway’s method was the more distinctly defensive,
Out the two men were about equally slow on the scoring-
board. They had been together for an hour when Bards-
ley forgot to keep the ball down. He raised one of
Pen-ler’s towards short-leg, and was caught out.
There had been one point of similarity between the
dull cricket of both men. Times and again they
struck at the ball and missed it; but as the
bowling was not on the wicket the futility of
these swipes didn’t matter. Then Ransford came in
and batting was resumed. Once or twice Kelleway dis-
tinguished himself by glancing Sinclair forcibly to leg, and
presently he provided a sensation —a “huge sensation
by putting one of Schwartz’s deliveries somewhat gently
back to the bowler, who didn’t catch it, or nearly catch
it. Whereupon Kelleway patted the pitch with his bat,
and the cognoscenti said, “ Ah ! he may well do that,” and
breathed hard. The next important event produced a
tumult of applause. Ransford hit a “ fourer ’’—the first
boundary hit in 75 minutes. Four o’clock had then
arrived, and the players adjourned for tea; so I went
away musing on the shortness of life and the longness of
Test matches. Cricket, truly, is a Great Game for the
public that takes its pleasures slowly. The spectators
interest me a lot more than the play. They are so artless
in their confessions of devotion to the sport and in their
ignorance of what is happening. An elderly gentleman
sitting next to me stated that he had been waiting in
Melbourne for this match some eight days—and his
interest in the play was so keen that when Bardsley was
eauo-ht he wanted to know who was out and how the
tragedy had come to pass. Fact! One never needs to
depart from facts in writing of cricket and its devotees.
Truth is stranger than fiction.
In the first Australian XI, Murdoch, whose
sudden death shocked the people at the Test match on
Saturday, was originally the wicket-keeper ; but he was
completely eclipsed by his understudy, Blackham. After-
wards, he was picked for his batting, and his handling of
teams was even more successful. W.L. was only 56.
* * * *
“B.”: “Not at All” (B. 16/2/’ll) makes a
sorry defence of the Australian XI defaulters who are
building the score sheet of the S’Africans, and filling the
Australian pathway with thorns. “Cotteris an express,
he says, “ and when he precedes his delivery with a run
like a kangaroo, finally swinging all his weight into the
sphere, no-balls are occasionally unavoidable.” The first
innings of the fourth Test proved that no-balls are not
unavoidable. Moreover, E. Jones—a better and faster Aus-
tralian bowler than ever Cotter was, and possibly ever will
be—never assisted the opposing score-sheet like the pre-
sent day express ; and the reason is that E. Jones always
had command of the ball, while Cotter (chiefly by trying
to exceed his natural strength) stumbles on his nose four
balls out of six. Also Tom Richardson (possibly England s
greatest hurricane bowler) seldom transgressed with no-
balls. “ Not-at-All ” also side-tracks with the other
qualities of Kelleway—batting and fielding. These quali-
ties are admitted ; but Kelleway’s right to carelessly
swell the other side’s total isn’t. Cotter was ever a no-
ball deliverer. In his first English visit with the 1900
Australian XI he bowled 11 no-balls in the five Tests.
However, if “ Not-at-All ” will take a sensible view and
admit that the press lashings of the no-ball Australians
has had good effect, he will lie forgiven.
* * * *
When the S’Africans were losing their wickets
at the rate of six for 65 last Saturday, the question natu-
rally arose why in the name of thunder did Sherwell put
the Australians in to bat first if his men were so incapable
of making the best of the improved pitch when they got
it? Playing for safety is rarely the best game for the
S’Africans. Their most effective way of scoring al-
ways appears a bit—a good bit —risky. The team, speak-
ing generally, puts the ball up five times to the
Australians’once, and in striving to keep the ball down
the uppish players come to grief. When the score stood
at six for 65, four of the men had been clean bowled ; and
Nourse, the notable survivor, who was fated to carry his
bat for 92, had been lucky to escape the penalty of bis
comparative carefulness. Then he and Sherwell, the new-
comer, commenced to put some life into the game, ai'u
scored nearly 100 runs before the latter gave a catch to
Matthews. In the meantime, Nourse, with a hard, high
drive, had put the most dangerous bowler hors de combat
by dislocating one of his fingers.
The Australian selection committee would be
acting in the interests of the bleeding continent if it
stayed its choosing of the final test team till after the
match between the Springboks and the Ma State. With
the rubber won, it would be a graceful act on the part
of the committee to give a number of colts an opportu-
nity in the fifth test. No doubt the £25 per match is a
big item in the players’ view of things, but perhaps the
colts might give the old dogs a percentage of the splosh
with which to drink their health while they won their
spurs. .
When this issue was pushing its final pages
through the press, the rumpus over the fourth test post-
ponement was'raging bitterly, with the Board of Control
sharpening its axe to vindicate its authority. According
to the Board’s secretary, there was a majority of the
Board against the action of the captains; but all
in ‘a night (Tuesday) the Board crumpled up, and
next day it was announced that a majority hod
definitely decided to postpone the match. Of
course, the postponement was solely in the interests
of the gate, the caterers, the strong-drink sellers, and the
soda-water vendors. The curious part of the business is
that scarcely any of the Board except the Victorian sec-
tion will father the decision, and at the coming annual
meeting of the Board a considerable rumpus is expected.
If the weather behaves unreasonably the Board ought to
have authority to postpone any match ; and the grabbing
of the precedent is worth the cost.
* * * *
The scrap for the job that Major Wardill left
behind him was a boil-over. There were quite a few ex-
Australian XI men seemingly well up in the running,
but the M. 0.0. resolutely pushed them all into
the gutter and threw the mantle on to the shoulders of
S. M. Tindall. This lucky gentleman is a Lancashire
cricketer who has been in Australia a very brief period
indeed, and it was a case of an outsider beating all the
favorites. Exactly what Mr. Tindall’s extraordinary
qualifications were has not, so far, transpired ; but it
goes without saying that the M. 0.0. would not have
appointed him unless he had extraordinary qualifications.
* * * *
N.S.W. Selection Committee chose a score of
players to practise, and out of them will be sorted the XI
to battle against the Springboks on Friday. In the earlier
part of the week it looked as though it would be neces-
sary for the players to be swimmers as well as cricketers,
for the Sydney cricket pitch was more like a water-polo
rendezvous than anything else.
* * * *
The Glen-Curtiss hydro-aeroplane is a fearful
thing, and carries more terrors than anything else yet
evolved by man. Seated on his mad contraption, Cur-
tiss can soar in the air from any old spot on the shore,
locate the ship he wishes to attack from the height
of hundreds of feet, drop into the water, steal with-
in striking distance, and then complete his attack
from the air. It all means that warfare is becoming
more deadly, and the job of conducting an attack with the
old appliances more and more difficult. What humanity
requires is that the defence shall be stronger than the
attack. When it is 500 times stronger, war will just drop
dead.
* * * *
Very early last Saturday, when few citizens
were yet astir, J. J. Hammond, of the British and Colonial
Aeroplane Co., accomplished the most successful flight
yet achieved in Australia. Starting his British bi*plane
at Altona Bay (Vic.), he sped north-east towards Wil-
liamstown, then on to Spotswood. Veering north, he
swept over Sunshine, to the amazement of the early
pickets waiting for strike-breakers ; then west and south
to his starting-point, where he landed smoothly in 31min.,
the distance covered being about 22 miles. The aviator
reached his greatest altitude (3000 ft.) at Sunshine. Air
pockets and currents were struck, but nothing large or
strong enough to cause alarm.
The Leagues of Wheelmen in Victoria and
N. S. Wales have come together again, and will work
until Easter under the old reciprocity agreement origin-
ally framed by the dead and gone Federal Cycling Council.
At Easter there will be a conference at which many
things will be talked of, including a project to import
star riders from the uttermost ends of the earth, run
them at series of carnivals held throughout the States,
with a view to “ placing track racing on a proper footing
once more."
It will be a fairly desperate sort of gamble ; but
if the business can be made very attractive at the begin-
nin<r it is quite possible that bike-racing maj T be
lifted from the gutter to the top of the steeple. That
the public loved the old cycling carnivals there is no
question. It was only when the sport became utterly
rotten that the public started to stay away, and when
the boodlers fell out among themselves and laid the
whole disgraceful business bare in the courts, the busi-
ness stank —hummed, in fact. Then the public felt it had
to assume an aspect of outraged virtue. But what nights
they were! What a sight it was when the great
field came swinging round for the five-mile, dropping
into place on the green track, the reds, blues,
yellows and other garish colors flashing up in
the amethyst-tinted light. Then the pistol shot,
the wild rush, the whirling mass of jumbled color
streaking round the track in half a dozen bunches. Pre-
sently one would glide out from a rear group, and spurt
up to a bunch ahead, till the long succession of groups
had dwindled to about three, and then two. And
as they swung round, rider after rider, with his lips
drawn back, his teeth showing in a grin of exhaustion,
would glide off on to the grass into darkness, till there
was only one bunch, and as it travelled, reeling un-,
steadily in the garish, flickering light, lying close to the
track, one would hear: What's doing, Mac? Cut you
for a fiver. 'Struth, play the bleeding game ! Wotthe-
hell.” Then the clanging of the last-lap bell, the sudden
and tremendous rush, the roar of 30,000 bellowing
spectators, and the crack of the pistol of fate. Yes, they
were great nights.
* # * *
According to Yankee papers, A. J. Clark, who
still calls himself “ the Australian champion,” only lost
the recent big New York six days' horror by faulty judg-
ment. But what sort of money is the little wheeler
making these times ! Immediately after his failure, he
left New York for Germany to compete in a six-days race
in Berlin in March, for which he was paid the biggest
appearance money ever planked down in the German
capital. He also received a record cheque from some
Parisian promoters for appearance money to ride in six
special sprint matches against the crack sprinters of
Europe. And, on top of all, he is due back in Yankeeland
in April for the opening of the racing season there.
Clark is leading the strenuous life right enough, and if
he can last he should make a fortune in record time.
The spread of motoring in this country is
giving the tyre companies a busy time. The big
Dunlop Mills report that the rush for their grooved
Dunlop, the tyre of the day, is so great that the manage-
ment has had to devise a system of three shifts so that
the machinery never stops, but whirls on day and night;
and on top of it all the ptynt is being added to, and this
progressive Australian concern will shortly be turning out
800 to 1000 motor tyres per week. The motors are
humming, my masters !
* * * *
The Australian Army Service Corps is to be
supplied right away with motor waggons, and at the
Easter manoeuvres the officers will rely upon cars instead
of horses. Senator Pearce has done well, but he has ap-
parently forgotten or overlooked the fact that there is a
considerable crowd of motor-bikists who could be turned
to most useful account in military doings. The motor-
bike is better for scouting and despatch work than the
car, for anywhere a horse can go the motor-bike can go
faster.
* * * *
J. de Rosier, of Yankeeland, and C. R. Collier,
of England, will meet shortly at Brooklands, England, to
decide which country holds the world’s motor-bike cham-
pionship. De Rosier has put up some wonderful times
on that new track at Los Angeles, and .Collier has done
likewise in England at Brooklands. De Rosier will use
the 7-h.p. “ Indian ” machine on which he recently put
up a crowd of fresh world records, including one of 90
miles an hour. Collier will ride his 8-h.p. “Matchless
machine, and the struggle should be a splendid one, as
the Brooklands track is capable of carrying cars up to
120 miles per hour. Still, glorious as it may be, writer
would soOner watch that race than take part in it.
** / *
Apparently it was the fearsome heat which
beat O. Riddell’s attempt on the Melbourne-to-Sydney
motor-bike record. His 5-h.p. Peugeot two-speed
machine ran all right, but he had a crop of
troubles. Punctures were frequent and bad, and the
fervent heat melted the cement so that his patches
lifted after riding a few miles. Then not far from Yass
he struck a bank, was thrown into a ditch, and strained
the shaft of his machine so badly that all hope of break-
ing any record had gone. So he jogged quietly into
Yass, trucked his machine back to Melbourne, and moved
on in the train. He will make another attempt shortly,
and ride right through without rest or break.
* -X * *
There’s a man up on the N.S.W. North Coast
J. W. Wilson—who holds his own little record. He has
been judge at the local annual regatta for 52 years.
This season he couldn’t act, because he is the town clerk
of Kempsey, and the Kempsey municipal election hap-
pened to collide with the regatta.
* * * *
Died in India last month Mo Trahan, who rode
the runner-up in a Melbourne Oup 30 years ago, and was on
Commotion when that popular favorite won the Champion
Stakes. All the same, he was only 46 when he quitted this
o-lobe. Trahan must have been one of the first Australian
jockeys to settle in India and win big races on Australian
gees. He captured the Viceroy’s Cup long ago with
Highborn, the famous gelding that chased Carbine home
for the Melbourne Cup when the phenomenon was giving
him 531 b. In after years, when he was training horses
and paying periodical visits to this country, he picked up
a bargain in Cherry, who subsequently won a Viceroys
Cup for him.
* * * *
One of the best treated horses left in the
Newmarket Handicap is Broadsword, the Maori-
lander. On Cup Day, at Flemington, he won the
Railway Handicap, carrying Bst. 31b. in excep-
tionally fast time (lmin. 14sec.); and now over
the same course he will have only 7st. 131 b. on
his back. If Broadsword runs in the Futurity Stakes at
Caulfield next Saturday his form should be a fair guide to
his Newmarket chance. The distance is 7 furlongs, ana
it would seem that the V.R.C. handicapper reckons the
straight 6 furlongs at Flemington to be a bit more than
the slippery Maorilander cares for. In the Railway
Handicap aforementioned he shot out from the held at 5
furlongs, but was only a short head to the good at the
finish. # , *
“Rastus” (from M.L.): So the books are
outed. By enactment they are legally non est; so, one
and all, th'ev have decided to turn over a new leaf. One
firm has decided to open a poultry exchange—this by way
of complying with the law concerning “ visible jawful
means,” etc. The exchange will deal in dead birds and
the other sort. This same law regarding bookmakers
was in force three or four years ago; but it was amended.
Now, out goes Ikey again. His legal departure so dis-
tressed one member of Maoriland’s Parliament ( Honor-
able” are all the members of Maoriland’s Parliament)
that he attended the last race meeting in the Dominion
at which the pencillers might legally ply their calling and
apologised to them for the passing of “ the monstrous
law by which their occupation was stealthily taken from
them.”
* * * *
Another sidelight on the totalisator and the
cutting of Ikey Mo out of the business. Adelaide Regis-
ter (4/2/’ll), rubbing it into the two chief local racing
clubs, and urging that their Cups in May (Adelaide and
Birchdav) should each be worth a clear £lOOO to the
winner, cites the experience of the Adelaide ltacingClub
on Foundation Day. In one race, for which £2OO was
given, the totalisator earned for the club £225. The
whole stakes for the day were £1250, and the total coin-
mission from the machine was £1225; so that the club
had all the nomination and acceptance fees (though
these have been cut very low), and all the entrance
money from a huge attendance, to pay the odd 25 sove-
reigns and cover the expenses of the fixture. Mean-
while, backers were getting such dividends as £lO/s.
and £2O 12s. In fact, £3 12s. for £1 was the lightest
dividend of the day, and one race showed the healthy
return of £l5 16s. on the first and £3 11s. on the second.
**' * *
Another instance of a jockey winning the whole
card happened on the first day of the fstanthorpe (Q.)
races, last month, when A. E. Tucker, a Brisbane jockey,
scooped the whole programme of five events.^
Punters got a good show of racing for their
money at Caulfield last Saturday. Some first-class horses
were about, and both public “ form ’’and private re-
putation scored heavily. The St Georges Stakes
with Comedy King, ■ Alawa, Trafalgar and Son of
the Marsh in the field, was an event worth con-
sidering, and backers considered rightly in making the
Melbourne Cup winner a warm favorite. The black
horse is in great nick just now, and his manner of rush-
ing to the front and staying there was most impressive.
Alawa, in a good humor, might have bustled him ; but
the massive son of Malster ran as he often ran in the
sprino-, and was never dangerous ; whilst Son of the
Marsh and Trafalgar probably carried a trifle too much
flesh. The former should do better in the Futurity Stakes
next Saturday. . ■ , *
Blairgour, the early pick for the Newmarket,
made light of a not very smart lot in theOakleigh Plate(ol
furlongs). Sprinting would seem to be Blairgour s game.
He may develop into a stayer, but at present he has the
flvawav disposition that his dam Wakeful showed at the
same age. If many of the animals that chased him last
Saturday were wholly on the job—which probably they
were not—Blairgour’s win was a fine performance. Any-
how, it suggested that he should have a great go in the
Newmarket, presuming that his stable companion, Golden
Point, is not also fast enough to be the one on the day.
In one or other of the minor events Nobel showed some
of the “class” he was credited with in the spring of
1909, and St. Margaret, another Maorilander by birth, won
again handsomely.
Next Saturday, in the Futurity Stakes, the
public will have a decisive Newmarket trial if Blairgour
or any other sprinter manages to get away from Comedy-
King The distance (seven furlongs) is short for the Cup
winner, and his weight is what is commonly known as a
“crusher,” yet his people fancy him. To the writers
way of thinking, any Newmarket candidate that can
beat Comedy King in the Futurity should be worth back
ing at Flemington a week later. #
“ Juys The woman-at-the-fight business be-
came humorous the moment the voice of “Hermes "was
heard in the land. That the wail (B. 26/1/11) might be
heard, he turned his back on friend Truth. Had he
perused his Sun more carefully he would not be laboring
under the delusion that neither woman at the
fight “came away with any very clear impres-
sion about what happened”—the dominant note
was that she got there. Miss Dulcie Deamer told us in a
very calm, collected way how she walked down the New
South Head-road and entered the Stadium without any-
more excitement than if she were visiting “ Miss Gibbs.
That I got there in no way surprised me either; and 1
came away with the clearest of impressions. I could even
now tell “Hermes" of trifling incidents that I feel
pretty certain he has forgotten, if he ever noticed them.
He would be too busy searching for ‘ those strongly-
suspected of being ladies.” Happy “Hermes when
he found himself alongside a nice, bright-faced youth!
No spirit of the fight or the fearfulness of it obsessed him
then. Not for all the fights in the. world would he have
missed one half smile, or the happiness of carrying her
out at the finish! Did “Hermes” expect us to tell
him how the same was fought and won? At his
first fight was he full of wisdom about straight leads,
upper-cuts, right-hand cross-counters, etc. ? ‘ Hermes
didn’t want us to do a poor mere man-reporter out of a
job, surely ! If he wanted to know the impressions of
the women-at-the-fight “Hermes” should have read
more than the headlines ; and then perhaps it wouldn t
have been necessary to use to him the beautiful words of
the Arcadians, 44 Do tell the truth I”
* * * *
What fortunes the oil kings must be making !
Lord Montagu, who edits the English motor magazine,
the Oar, recently went to a lot of trouble to collect
statistics of the petrol consumption of Great Britain.
Assuming that the average consumption is one gal-
lon for 15 miles, the automobilists of the United
Kingdom last year burnt up 40,000,000 gallons,
and ran 600,000,000 miles, equal to 25,000 times
round the equator and 6J times the distance from
the earth to the sun. That was in Great Britain
alone—what must the figures for the whole world he .
Another question is how long will the oil supply of »h®
world stand this fearful drain, if, as Sir Boverton Bed-
wood says, the natural processes that created oil ceased
to operate about the time that man first appeared on the
planet. Looks as though in the near future man will
have to drive his car with alcohol made from the whiskers
of the earth.
THE YACHTSMAN REPLIES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
| They are telling a story which 19 “up against ” a couple
of A.D.C.'s. Being in Manly and bored, they leapt at the
Suggestion of an acquaintance that they should visit the
yacht of a friend of his. Arrived on board, they drank the
pwner’s whisky and hearkened to his well-meaning but dull
& rattle as though it were alluring conversational goods.
he time came when they decided to depart. The yacht’s
jiingey was requisitioned, and the vice-regalities were
rowed shorewards. Then did they begin a free and frank
criticism of their host’s manners, social class and so forth
■—in French. They roundly denounced him who had
slaked their thirst in the hour of need, as a hopeless
bourgeois, and a flagrant member of the lower-middle
classes. —“ Woman’s Letter" (B. 16/3/’11).
Wot makes the yotsman’s 'eart to penk? Wot makes
him to perspire ?
Tt ain’t a-pullin’ in the sheets nor ’aulin’ on the wire ;
It’s everlarstin’ buzzin’ round, and tryin’ 'ard to smile
When the skipper ships a British Dook, and takes ’im fer
a sile.
Wot makes the yotsman curse like ’ell when boundin’o’er
the biller,
And long to lure the keptin arft and brain ’im with the
tiller?
It ain’t tlier dread of gettin’ wet and catchin’colds and
Chills ;
It’s that there Dook from Guv’ment House—’im and ’is
blanky frills.
E comes aboard in Randwick togs and brings’is Thirst
along
.(Dooks mostly alius ’as a Thirst, and takes their licker
strong);
E bangs about the deck in boots, and ’eelmarks ev’ry
plank—
A right reserved for viscounts, dooks and others of 'igh
rank.
We fills ’im up with licker, and we loads ’im up with
grub ;
1 E only grins and arsks fer more —just like the blanky cub
’E is! But when we gets outside, and hocean breezes
blow—
Oli, the skipper’s Dook is deathly sick, a’ lyin’ down
below !
Oh, the Dook, oh ! the Dook, oh ! the bleatin’, blightin’
Dook ;
The ’arf of ’im's a ’bloomin’ toff, the other ’art’s a sot;
And when you’d like a drop o’ grog, as feelin’ rather
shook,
You goes below and finds, by Oripes, the Dook ’as sunk
the lot!
N.S.W.
GUILLAUME, LE MATELOT.


.LOOK FOR NAME ON STRAP. g
m ' *
■
m
SHOE
WHAT IS STYLE?
"THE Marshall idea of correct style includes
* not only graceful shape and pleasing pro-
portions, but a Comfortable Fit as well.
Marshall Styles are decidedly
original—the newest shoe ideas
are always Marshall’s—
and in addition to these
strictly-in-the-lead models,
you always get Marshall’s
famous no-breaking-in fit.
Why not let your shoes be
Stylish and Comfortable ?
Doesn’t cost a penny more.
Get our new Style
Book and look over our
new winners.
22/6
Also made in “K/im-ax"
(our No. 2 Grade), at
18/6
Style No. 1519.
Dango
Pat. Colt Bal.
Calf Kid Quarters,
Bogo Last
(also in Blucher).
Sold
in over
500 Towns
MARSHALL SHOE CO.
RICHMOND. VIC.
260
ANOTHER STYLE NEXT WEEK
British-Built Woodworking Machines.
E are Sole Agents for Messrs. J. Sagar
V* & Co., England, makers of High-
grade Woodworking Machines. Just landed,
a new stock of machines embodying the
latest ideas for High Speed, Quick Hand-
ling and Convenience—Bandsaw, Mortising,
Moulding, Tenoning, Planing and Thick-
nessing Machines, Fret Saws, Swing Cut-
off Saws, Saw Benches, Buzz Planers,
Wood-turning Lathes.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE M 5.
Thomas McPherson & Son
ESTABLISHED SO YEARS.
582-588 Collins Street, MELBOURNE,
L I O U EUR.
BENEDICTINE
STEVENS
Single-Barrel GUNS
No. 105 Non-E,jedtor.
No. 107 Auto-Ejedlor.
In 12 y 16 and 20 Gauges.
ORDER
STEVENS
FROM YOUR
DEALER.
Write for Catalogue to
ARTHUR H. HILL, Australian Represent-
ative for Stevens Arms and Tool Co.,
Box 86, G.P.0., Adelaide, S, Australia.
.■A',,
Send for latest Fire-
arm, Telescope and
Stevens - Pope Cata-
logues. [3
if 3 *
OLD
O 9*"ey
ft
SCO'
OLD ORKNEY
Real LiqueurWhisky
m
m
i
[ AGENTS:
SYDNEY-Tooiieys, Ltd.
MELBOURNE —T. R. Jones & Co.
BRISBANE—EIIiott, Donaldson
& Douglas, Ltd.
ADELAIDE—Lord & Heseltino. H
HOBART—John Ferguson &
LAUNGESTON—Jonn McKenzie & Co.
THE WHISKY
FOR IHt lIOMF.
Something Special in Cycle Value.
Cycling is not only a healthy sport, but it is a most enjoyable
one if your cycle is dependable and light. _
This it can be if you are careful in your selection of a mount.
Our Model 3 at £ll is the finest low-priced machine
being offered, and it would be worth your while to inspect
one before purchasing. , . ~ , .
We guarantee each machine to be free from mechanical defect.,
for at least twelve months, and fit them with the highest-
grade tyres. Call and see one or write for our catalogue.
Bennett & Barkell, Ltd.,
Largest Cycle-Building House in the State,
234 Pitt Street and Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
Our New Catalogue is Out!
We have just published our New Shoe Catalogue,
and want every man interested in High-Grade Foot-
wear to send for a copy.
It shows all the latest styles in Gent.’s Quality
Footwear.
Suppose you send for a copy to-day.
The Shoe illustrated is a Willow Calf Derby Shoe,
fine-stitched welts, in black or tan. Also in Boots.
Price 21s. Postage 9d. extra.
The Rigney Shoe Co.,
“The Exclusive Men’s Hig'h-Grade Shoe Stores,”
305 George St., Sydney, and 179 a Pitt St., Sydney.
•4. „
-m
Please note that the new shop in Pitt Street is under the personal mnnasrenient of
Mr. F. C. Eig’ney, the sole and only proprietor of the above firm.
GUARANTEED 2 YEARS.
20-50 h.p.
Chalmers
£490
s=Seater
Touring Car.
40-h p.
THOMAS,
6=Cylinder
7=Seater.
ROY W.
SAND FORD,
181 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Also at 105 EXHIBITION STREET, MELBOURNE
The “MOTA”
(Regd.).
The “Mota” Hat is conceded everywhere to be
the standard in style, quality and workmanship.
It is easily the most comfortable of hats, and
equally suitable for town or country wear, for busi-
ness or holidays, for walking', driving or riding, for
week days or Sundays, for wet days or fine days,
for warm weather or cold weather.
The “ Mota ” is the hat that suits every head and
every occasion. Stocked by leading houses through-
out Australia, in all fashionable colors. Prices,
7/6 to 12/6. If unobtainable in your district,
write us direct.
THE AUSTRAL HAT MILLS, LIMITED,
ABBOTSFORD, MELBOURNE.
‘SHELL’
GIVES
BEST
ALL-ROUND
RESULTS!
UNDER
- ’ • ALL '
CONDITIONS.
AND THAT’S WHAT YOU NEED.
Cement Works Chemist.
The Golden Bay
Cement Works Limited
invite Applications for the position
of Chemist.
Previous experience in Cement Works essential.
Applications, accompanied by copies’* of testi-
monials and stating age and experience, to be
forwarded to the undersigned not later than
10th MARCH, 1911.
E. M. BOULTON,
Secretary,
Nathan’s Buildings, Wellington, New Zealand.
CONCRETE WORK.
NOTICE is herebv given that the Patentees of Aus-
tralian Patent No. 13681, dated the 4th February,
1909, for
"Improvements in the Construction
of Concrete Work,”
are prepared to satisfy any demands and all requirements
of the public respecting the said invention. Further
particulars and informat ion obtainable from COLLISON &
CO Patent Attorneys, 483 Collins Street, Melbourne :
and Eagle Chambers, King William Street, Adelaide.


Shipping.
P. and 0. BRANCH SERVICE
(late Lund’s Blue Anchor Line).
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
* Twin-screw.
Carrying one class of passengers only.
LONDON £l6, £lB and £BO.
CAPETOWN and NATAL £l3 135., £l5 15s. and £l7 17s.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD., 7 Bent St.
Mkmiouhnk Aoknts : JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William-street.
Ai>m,aii>k k Fiikmantmc Aqents : GEO. wru,s & CO.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAND.
ORVIETO .
OSTERLEY
OTRANTO .
OTWAY .
ORSOYA .
ORONTES.
OMItAII .
ophip
Fitted with Wireless Telegrtphy. New and luxurious
13,000-ton Sr earners. Oabines-de-'n te ; State-rooms, with
bedsteads; Single Berth Room-, Private Bathrooms;
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Sailing every fortnight from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Brack, Sydnkv.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
jjank of ||orth Queensland
limited.
Authorised Capital £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,00 Q
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of George and Bridge §ts.
Manager: .1 I'. CANNY.
Local Director:
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 4 QUEEN VICTORIA STREET, E.C.
Manager: R. R. LOVE.
Bankers: THE LONDON COUNTY & WESTMINSTER
BANK LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Bank of Deui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
Total Capital Paid-up £2.000,000
Uncalled Capital £500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits £864,134
CRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
and Iceland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, arid
transacts all other usual Banking business.
THE
Australian Bank nf Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .
SUBSCRIBED
PAID-UP (31st December, 1910)
£2,000,000
£1,197,127
£1,145,933
HEAD OFFICE —George and King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE-2 King William Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS—Sir William P. Manning, Kt., Chairman ;
George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D.; Ciias. 'll. Myles, Esq. ;
Mark Sheldon, Esq. ; Arthur S. Barton, Esq.; Frank
N. Yarwood, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian C mimonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the world.
A. P. STEWART, General Manager
The ...
Queensland National Bank,
Limited
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £SOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 413,484 8 10
Reserve (in Gov. Stock) 94,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock . 3,091,669 4 5
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT. I
All New Business since 1893 Specially Protected. !
Directors: JAS. MILNE, Esq., Chairman; JAMES
MUNRO. Esq,; Hon. A. J. CALLAN, Esq., M.L.C. •
JOHN CAMERON, Esq. ; F- LORD, E q. ,
General Manager— W. V. RALSTON.
Branches—London, Sydney & throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland, I
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the Ea3t.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited
Capital Paid-up-,
U-serve Liability\of Shareholders ..
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock)
HEAD OFFICE : BRISBANE.
OIJ-*
Oi 03
O *■>
o o o
o o o
£519,237
On. Mnjrr.: Edwd. D.\Day. Asst. Mnjrr,: E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C. '
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
The Colonial (l)utual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability
II kau Offick :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds. £3,000,000.
Policies Issued 116.154 —Assuring £33.858,510.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,727.264.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitable distributed.
Ciiikf Offick for Nkvv South Wai.ks :
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors :
The Ilor. C. J. Robkrts, C.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The lion. Bkuck Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Shipping-.
REDUCED FARES
To EUROPE
Nord D
FARES TO LONDON.
RINOLE .. 1., £fifi IT., £SSIOs. 111., £l5 to £l7
RETURN.. 1., 99 11., 57 15s. 111., 27 to 30 12s
PASSENGERS booked to Egypt, Naples,
Genoa, Algiers, Marseilles, Gibraltar,
London, Antwerp, and Bremen.
w Fitted with “ Wireless ” installation.
Arriving in London in pood time for the Coronation.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
REGULAR FOUR-WEEKLY MATL
SERVICE from Sydney and Brisbane, via
New Guinea, by Twin-screw Steamers.
For Passage and Full Particulars apply to—
LOHMANN & CO., General Agents,
• 7 & 9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
rnilE BULLETIN POST CARDS-New
J- Series. IV., V.. VI. Packet of Twelve,
Cd. ; Packet of Ten, sd. Forwarded Post Free
to any address.
TH€ AB€RD€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown. Plymouth, and
London,
CALLINC AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
a One class only. h Calls Hobart.
Fitted Wireless Telegraphy.
FARRS— Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £57 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Capetown & Durban, from £3l 10s.. £l3 13s £l7 17s,
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
P. & O. Branch Service.
Special Round Tickets for Return by Orient Line—£ll2
(First-class each way) ; £B5 (Second-class Orient).
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
DALCETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN,PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
Twin-screw Steamers.
AFRIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
March 18.
SUEVIC, 12,500 tons, to sail about
April 13.
PERSIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
May 10.
RUNIC and MEDIC to follow.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy and
Submarine Signalling Apparatus.
Only One Class of Accommodation*
FARES —Capetown or Durban *l6 15 0 to £24 S 0
London .. .. 19 .0 0 to 30 0 0
Melbourne 1 10 0
New York, Boston, Quebec,
Montreal, &c. from 25 O’ 0
Pamphlets and all other information on application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
DALGETY & COMPANY, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
HOLIDAY CRUISES <
to Papua and the Pacific Islands.
To Papua, via Brisbane, Cairns Return £2O
Mar. 10, April 21 (five weeks’ round trip}
To Solomon Islands Return £2O
Feb. 24, April 7. (five weeks’ round trip)
To Lord Howe Island, Norfolk Island and
New Hebrides (seven weeks’ trip) Return £25
First of every month.
Send for illustrated descriptive pamphlet, describing these
and other delightful Holiday Trips, from £lO upwards.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 11 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES,
HEAD OFFICE: MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Commissioners have MONEY TO LEND TO FARMERS and SETTLERS from £5O to £2OOO, repayable by
instalments extending over 30 years. Low rates of interest and special repayment privileges.
The Savings Lank Department accepts DEPOSITS from 1/- U.J to £5OO. Interest paid on the minimum
monthly balance.
ADVANCES MADE UP TO £25,000 at moderate rates of interest on City or Country Freeholds.
Full particulars and forms of application at any Branch, Post Office Agency, Crown Lands Office, or at the
Head Office, MOOUE STREET, SYDNEY.
J. 11. Davies, Secretary.
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817-
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
DIRECTORS
£2,817,660
£1,872,695
£2,817,660
£7,508,015
The Hon. C. K. MacKellar, M.L.C., President. I Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Senator The Hon. James Thomas Walker. Richard Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C. | The Hon. Sir No’rmand MacLaurin, Kt., M L.C
Auditors: Alfred George Milson, Esq. ; William Harrington Palmer, Esq
Head Office—George St., Sydney. London Office-64 Old Broad St., E.C.
With 319 Branches in all the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji and Papua (New South Wales 159 Victoria 37
Queensland 47, S mth Australia 5, West Australia 11, New Zealand 54, Fiji 3, Papua 3, London 1) • and
Agents and Correspondents throughout Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India, China Japan andi
the East, Africa,' Canada, the United States, South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies. ’ ’
Cable remittances made to, and Drafts drawn on, Foreign places DJRECT. Foreign Bills negotiated and.
collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
ERENCH, General Manager.,
FURS, Curios, Shells &. Opals
The Largest Store in Australasia.
Established 1860.
Tost & Rohu,
Taxidermists, Furriers, Tanners
and Island Curio Dealers,
10, 12 & 14 MOORE STREET, Opp. G.P.0.,
SYDNHY. antral 2196.
And 605 CEORCE ST., SYDNEY. City 2374.
Large Showrooms and Museum, containing* thousands of
Australian Souvenirs. Inspection invited.
Returning- Boomerangs from 1/6 each. Carved Emu Eggs,.
4/6 each. Native Grass Dresses, 4/6. Bow and Six Arrows,
2/6 the set. Spears, Clubs, Idols, Kava and Food Bowls,.
Shields, Masks, Stone Axes, Bark Belts, Tappa and Matting.
Pet Snakes, 20/- Snake Skin Ties and Watch Guards, 2/-each ;
Snake Skin Belts and Braces, 7/6; Slippers, 12/6; Boots,
£l/2/6 per pair. Skins made up into Ladies’ Furs, Mats,.
Rugs and Foot Warmers.
Stuffed Birds and Animals in Large Variety.
All Purchases Packed Frkk and Labelled.
Collections of Genuine Curios from £3.
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.,
FOR
Ordinary 8 Industrial Life Assurance.
Directors:
H. Montgomerie Hamilton, Esq., Chairman.
Victor E. Ludlow, Esq., L.R.C.5.1., L.K.Q.C.P.1.,
Claude Manning, Esq.
John F. Urk, Esq.
General Manager: J. A. Henderson.
Secretary: Consuming Actuary:
Freeman J. Eaton. W, E. Day, F.I.A.
Head Office:
30 CASTLEREACH ST. (facing Moore St.), SYDNEY.
flntiqtiarian Gazette,
CONDUCTED BY
ISIDORE KOZMINSKY, F.R.H.S., F.R.N.S.,
Assoc. Brit. Soc. of Archaeologists, Bond., etc-
Third Quarterly Number of the new series;
contains articles on :
Forgeries of Antiques on the
Market (Editorial Remarks).
The Theatre of Shakespeare’s Time. —
Percy J. Marks.
Early Australian Experiences, 1853
The Hon. A. Norton, M.L.C.
Romance of Heraldry (Coronation Cere-
monial).—Sir Edward Mackenzie, Bart-
Copper Tokens (Queensland, S.A. and
W.A.).— Dr. Arttiur Andrews.
On Collecting.— W. Woodroofe.
Robert Russell’s Journal.— J.E.M.
Etc.
ss. Yearly.
Office—Block Place, off Little
Collins Street, Melbourne.
Shipping:.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports*
FOR MELBOURNE -\
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
FREMANTLE. f
Transhipping: at Fremantle I
to all North Western Ports, I
GERALDTON (W.A.) J
S.S. Kanowna, March 4
and April X
(To Fremantle without
transhipment), connect-
ing - with Koombana
in Fremantle for North
West Ports.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Olirn
. S.S. Allingfa, March i.
S.S. Grantaln, March 11.
Best and Cheapest Route to Go/dfields.
saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Ollice.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRAUAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-IIED ROUTE.
To VANCOUVER, via BRISBANE,
FIJI, and HONOLULU, thence
by Rail to any part of CANADA
or UNITED STATES.
The Best Route to Europe.
SAILINGS:
All Steamers fitted witli Wireless Telegraphy.
Illustrated Pamphlets Free on Application.
I Agents throughout Canada, United States
and Europe—Canadian Pacific Railway Co.
For full particulars apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 269 George-street, Sydney.
F.= H. 5.
Federal-Houlder-Shire Lines.
For London and Liverpool
Via SUEZ CANAL.
T.S.S. “SUFFOLK,”
11.300 Tons. p. Davies. Commander
Will be despatched from BRISBANE - about 2nd Mar.
,> >i >i SYDNEI - - ~ 7th Mar.
i. .1 .> MELBOURNE „ 10th Mar.
.. .. HOBART- - „ 15th Mar.
• I ii ii ADELAIDE - „ 21st Mar.
The saloon accommodation consists of all two-berth
cabins on the upper deck, situated amidships.
The superior third-class accommodation, comprised of
two, four and eight-berth cal,ins, situated on the main
deck, amidships, with dining room on the upper deck.
Well lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious decks.
Third-class passengers supplied witli fresh provisions
from cool chamber throughout the voyage. Surgeon and
Stewardess carried. Electric light throughout. Return
and Round Trip tickets i.-sued via Cape and (or) Suez
routes. Prepaid passages arranged.
PARES— Saloon. Third Class.
LIVERPOOL*!. [ £49 10s. £l3 13s. £l5 15s. £17175.
Steerage fares from Brisbane One Guinea extra.
To be followed at regular four-weekly intervals b.y fast
twin-screw passenger steamers. Por further information,
illustrated hooks, pamphlets, etc., apply to
BIRT & CO., Ltd., Svdnev and Brisbane ;
11. JONES & CO.. Ltd., Hobart ;
McILWRAITU, McEACHARN & Co., Ltd., Melbourne:
ELDER, SMITH & Co.. Ltd.. Adelaide.
THE TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS
* AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Coiline-Bt., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
ItESEDYE FUND (Invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £37.500 0 0
Dirkotous : 11. Murray Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Chairman ;
John Grice, Esq., Vice-Chairman ; Hon. J. M. Pratt; J. 11.
MacFarland, Esq., M.A . LL.D. : Alexander M'Cracken.
JAMES JIOItKOWMAN, Manager.
FUEDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
THE OCEAN
Accident & Guarantee
Corporation Limited,
Ocean House, 11 Moore Street, Sydney.
Fire, accident, workmen’s com.
PENSATION, PUBLIC RISK, BUR-
GLARY and PLATE GLASS INSURANCES
at Lowest Rates.
JASON
Unshrinkable
HOSIERY.
Millars’ Karri U Jarrah
Co. (1902), Ltd.
Wk Supply—
JARRAH Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’ Scant=
ling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
72 BISHOPSGATE STREET WITHIN,
LONDON, E.O.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN'S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
63£ I’ITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
riUIE BULLETIN POST CARDS. -New
I Series. IV.. V.. VI. Packet of Twelve, 6d;
Packet of Ten, sd. Posted free to any address.
Special rates to agents. The Bulletin
214 George Street, Sydney.


Hotels, &c.
Superior Inducements to Colonial Visitors at the
Westminster Palace Hotel.
VICTORIA STREET, Opposite Westminster
Abbey and the Houses
LONDON, England, of Parliament.
A thoroughly comfortable Home-like Hotel,
located in one of the best districts in London.
Mo«t convenient situation for business or pleasure.
CHARGES. , , „ t „ .
Illustrated Tariff Booklet Sent on Request.
GEO J. BRINKWORTH, Manager.
George hotel,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
HE Australian Magazine. THE LONE
HAND, the National Monthly. Price 6d.
T
TASMANIA FOR TOURISTS !
Temperature mild ; Atmosphere exhilarating ; Scenery magnificent. Tourists splendidly
looked after by the well-organised Tourist Association.
Highfieid Hotel, Hobart.
The Leading Hotel—the Fashionable Resort of Tourists. Lavishly Furnished ; Excellent
Attendance - First-class Cuisine; Kosher Meat; Telephone ; Electric Light; Select Billiard
Room, etc. Central Situation; close to River, Rail, Trams, G.P.0., Tourist Bureau, etc.
Rooms now being booked for coming season. Early application requested.
S. H. MCDONALD, Manager, Highfletd Hotel, Hobart, Tasmania.
MEDLOW BATH, Blue Mountains, N.S.W.
MAJESTIC HOTEL.
COMPLETE arrangements have been made by the new proprietor (Mr. W. H. Burgess), late of the Grand
Hotel, Melbourne, for the comfort of visitors during the forthcoming season.
Medlow Bath is an ideal resort. The crisp mountain air is a delight, and the mountains, in their
Spring garb, appeal to lovers of the picturesque. Arrangements can be made at the Hotel for motors,
carriages and riding tours.
Motor parties can he arranged any time to start from the City Office or your own residence direct
to the Majestic Hotel.
To pedestrians Medlow offers ever-varying attractions. The views in the mountains are superh, and
hours can be spent in walks through the Hotel grounds.
Hot-air pipes are laid in many rooms. Daily Motor trips are made from the Hotel to Jenolan Caves.
Further particulars can be obtained from the Hotel, or from the Sydney Offices, 42 Castlereagh Street.
w. H. BURGESS, Proprietor.
“Pot Pourri” s r 8 Quality
“POT FOTJSRI ” Cigarettes. —The
highest grade obtainable, at 6d. per
packet of 10 ; 4/6 per 100.
“POT POURRI ” Cigars. —A fragrant
smoke— 3d. each ; 5 for 1/-; 18/6 per 100.
“POT POURRI” Tobacco— 4oz. tins.
2/-; Boz. tins, 4/- ; 8/- per lb. There is
none better than this—it is the BEST.
“POT POURRI” Pipes, Silver-
mounted, superior quality, all shapes,
2/6 each.
If not procurable at your own Tobacconist’s, call
or write for catalogue to
A. A. MARKS,
Sole Agent, George St.,
Sydney, N.S.W.
wm.
OSTRICH TIPS
From South Africa.
3rorro/~
I Black, White,
* Cream, Natural, or
Black tipped with
White.
(Length, 10 inches.) Post
Free to any address.
Worth twice the money. Write
to-day. Send Postal Notes.
Catalogues Free.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY ; also at
Corner of Bourkeand Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention Tub Huli.ktin.] [5
THE
t/.
Runyi p
'U
Forest Devil, w w
HOW A LADY WORKED
THE “DEVIL.”
PANTON HILL,
Messrs. J. COOPER & SONS, 17th October, 1910.
Melbourne.
Dear Sirs, —Just a few lines to let you know how we are getting along with the Bunyip
Forest Devil father bought from you three weeks ago. Father says it is the BEST
MACHINE HE HAS EVER USED, and he has seen and used a good many, and is very
pleased with it. I must let you know a little what we have done with it. Our trees are
mostly white gum, box, and messmate. We have uprooted trees that were 4ft. 6in. in
diameter, or so thick that the anchor rope was just big enough to go round them, with only
father and myself on the lever. There was one giant that, when I said to pull it, father
seemed very doubtful, and told me to wait until my brothers came home from school; but I
said, “ Put the ropes on ” ; and both of us got on the lever, and, in a short time, out came the
monster with roots in the air, and inado a hole not less than sft. deep and 12ft. wide. We
had not seen a tree pulled like it. Father would not have the hole filled up, but lets it stop
there so people can see WHAT A POWERFUL MACHINE THE “ BUNYIP” IS. I
have PULLED TREES MYSELF, about 2ft. in diameter, without any help. Some of our
trees are dead about live years, and the roots are mostly green, and bring up a great lot of
soil, but it is all the same. THE GREEN ONES COME OUT JUST AS EASY AS THE
DEAD ONES. There is NO STOPPING when once the “ Devil” catches hold of them—
THEY HAVE TO COME WITH THE BUNYIP. Wishing you every success in the
future, yours truly, (Signed) MARIA NOISCHALL.
John Cooper 8 Sons,
287-9 Elizabeth Street (opp. St.
Francis’s Church), MELBOURNE.
Will Andrade ™ BOOKS.
ANDRADE'S
MINSTREL SHOW,
or Burnt Cork
Comicalities.
A Splendid Collec-
tion of Comic Songs,
Jokes, Conundrums,
Stump Speeches,
Monologues, Dia-
logues, Farces, Inter-
ludes and After-
pieces for Minstrel
Entertainments.
Post Free,
1/2.
Kelly Gang, True Story,
1/-. Book ok Coin Tricks,
1/-. Wrestling, by Frank
Uotoh, World’s Champion,
10d. One Thousand Ways
to Get Rich, 1/6. How Old
Mosb Counted Eggs, and
115 other Recitations, 1/-.
Letter Writer, 1/-. Dr.
Foote’s Plain Home Cyclo-
pedia, latest edition, 124 S
pages, 400 colored plates
and engravimrs, 7/6. Dr.
Faulkner's Original Book
of Nature, the only genu-
ine and unabridged edi-
tion, 3 6, posted 4/-. Free-
masonry Explained, 1/3.
New- Tricks with Cards,
1/-. How TO MESMERISK, 1/-
&TAND ANY BOOK
YOU WANT.
Mention The Bulletin.
CHEAP CONJURING TRICKS.
.
MARVELLOUSLY SIMPLE 1
Simply Marvellous !
Multiplying and Van-
ishing Billiard Balls.
Produced from no-
where, appearing: at
word of command be-
tween the fingers (see
illustration). Complete
with Poll Instructions
(enabling the merest
amateur to perform it),
1/6; posted, 2 - '
Two-from-Five Card
Trick. Another start-
ler, introducing some-
thing quite new in
magic. Price 6d. ; post
free, Bd.
The Above Two Tricks (which require no stage,
no confederates and no special skill), post free any-
where. with Illustrated Catalogue of Magic, 2 B.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
Above prices include postage to any address.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne.
mV
s'
W&
r
The most healthy drink in
hot weather. —
4 M<mtserraf
LrIME- JUICE
is a pure natural fruit juice which cools
and purifies the system; it is free from
alcoholic lisk. The children love it.
SUPPLIED IN TWO FORMS—
Unsweetened, t.e., PUin Lime Juice. Sweetened, i.e. Lime Juice Cordial.
&he BULLETIN POST CARDS
PACKET OF TWELVE 6d.
PACKET CF TEH sd.
Gold Aedal Paris 1900 V Grand Prize St. Louis 1904
RAIOAERHAB]
B PREPARATIONS
F.OJOLFF & SOHN, Karlsruhe and London
Knloderma Jelly
prepared with glycerine Si honey without
oil or fat, does not grease; Is most
agreeable Si efficacious for preventing and allaying Irritation.
Kalodermn Soap
prepared with glycerine and honey, a
most refined and delicately perfumed
Toiletsoap.the leading soap for softening the skin.
Kaloderma Rice Powder
most popular and refined
toiletpowder. r Uc/'
KGlodcrma Sluwins Soap
prepared with the renowned
Kaloderma Jelly undispu-
tedly the most emollient shaving soap on the marKet.
v,' n refined luxury at a popular price, jcf
Obtainable from all the leading establishments.
r
h.
S)
ft:
*n
4.
t*
t»
rn
Ntt*
»£s»
o
C>
<>
&
. -v
V? 6X 1U 01
sc
m oiuw
TYRE J
BUILT O!Y\
/CIEATiriCX
PRINCIPLE/
] THI
I /ILVERTOW
/ GUBBEG 0
279GE0BGC/ r
) /YDBEY
Good Day Sir,
TFyoufiieasecou/ayou Ter me
hade some of your fme Woo!
For The Australian Knitt/hh
. Mills pure Woollen
Under Wear
V
\‘<f v~'K'';,' ' "
Si
Absolutely PURE
WOOL Underwear
for Australian Men,
Women 8 Children.
GUARANTEED UNSHRINKABLE.
“ MADE IN AUSTRALIA.”
See that our Registered Trade Mark, “ GOLDEN FLEECE," is on every garment.
STOCKED BY ALL REPUTABLE RETAIL HOUSES.
If not obtainable locally, communicate with us direct.
Made in our own Mills, Richmond, Victoria.
Sole Proprietors :—
AUSTRALIAN KNITTING MILLS, LTD.


HOTEL DANiELL
(Late imperial), Brisbane, Queensland.
AND ROYAL HOTEL,
Maryborough, Queensland.
A Home for Commercials and Others.KS
CALDWELL'S
High Quality INKS.
Anthony Hordern & Sons, Brickfield Hill, Sydney
Rexona,
The Rapid Healer, is an Ointment which heals with
remarkable rapidity. Unlike the old-fashioned
ointments, which are very slow f ija their action,
Rexona speedily relieves after a va>y few applica-
tions. Sold in triangular pots at Is), fid. and 3s.*
FINNEY’S
SALE.
They say that “ You Can’t Beat
Finney’s.” For instance:
Men’s Sac Suits,
19/11.
MEN’S SAC SUITS (Ready-to-Wear)-
Fancy English and Australian Tweeds,,
dark and medium brown mixtures, fancy
grey stripes and checks—all well made.
Three-garment Suits ; Coats made with
two or three buttons, with seam and vent
at back or plain backs ; Waistcoats cut
high or low, three and four pockets;
Trousers made with cross or side pockets
and trimmed in our own superior style.
Sizes (chest)—-34in., 36in., 38in., 40in.,
42in. :
Usually 25/- 27/6 30/- 35/- 37/6
Sale Price 19/H 19 /U 2 5/- 30/* 32/6
Usually 42/- 45/- 50/- 55/- 63/-
Sale Price 37/6 4Q/. 42/. , 47/6 54/-
FINNEY, ISLES
& Co., Limited,
THE BIG BLOCK,
BRISBANE.
IN BANANA LAND
Some of the recent rises in the Northern
rivers have no need to blush for themselves. The
Comet, bridged by the Kockhampton-Longreach
line, rose 50ft. 3in. above its ordinary level, being
at its best a mere 22ft. over the railway line.
Died at Gracemere, Rockhampton, re-
cently, ICdward Kelly, whose father was one of
the original Archer family party, pioneers of
Central Bananaland. The younger Kelly, born
in 1860, was one of the first white children who
saw the sun thereabouts ; and he liked the view
well enough never to seek another.
Though Wullie Kidston has accepted a
stiddy job on the Land Court, he is to go first to
London and ask Cohen if he has room for another
few millions on the slate. Wm. may also “stay
over for the races,” so to speak, and, as a final
step to whole-hog toadyism, hold out his hat for
any little tag that “ the Crown ” may have to
spare.
Died on February 7, aged 85, John
Slaughter, who in 1849 came to Moreton Bay in
the ship Fortitude, which was the second Govern-
ment immigrant vessel to enter the bay. The
first was the Artemisia, which arrived five weeks
ahead of the Fortitude. Fortitude Valley, one of
the busiest suburbs of Brisbane, got its name from
the ship that brought Slaughter to the land.
“ A.V.” : Bowen, the easy-going town-
ship with the good harbor, has been under the
heel of Townsville for many years; but it has
been shaking its weary body of late, and threaten-
ing to do things. Noticing that there was oppo-
sition threatening in their vicinity, the business
people of the bigger town began to open up
branches in Bowen. Now there is talk of the
Townsville papers buying up the two Bowen
papers; and if that comes off, it will be interest-
ing to watch how strenuously they will thereafter
barrack for Bowen.
They don’t do all the brave things at
Manly and Bondi. While the Pioneer River was
in flood the other day, four Japs were capsized
out of a boat through a tree striking their craft.
Three of them managed to swim ashore, but the
fourth clung to the swamped boat and was sent
swirling towards the sea. On the way he was
carried against the bridge, and had a leg broken;
but he still hung on. The boat then had only a
mile and a half to cover before reaching the sea.
Therabouts the rescuer arrived—a Maorilander,
named Revenall. He dropped into the wildly-
swollen flood, let it carry him when it would,
and swam when the chance offered. About half a
mile from the mouth of the river he reached the
boat, and engineered it ashore. Then with sea-
weed and sticks he bound the broken leg, and
brought the Jap to the bridge, , where the
ambulance took charge of the case. That made
Revenall’seighth “save.” In 1903 Lady Rawson
handed him the bronze medal and certificate of
the Royal Shipwreck Relief and Humane Society
of N.S.W. for much the same kind of daring per-
formance.
“Matrix”: Bananaland’s civil service has
been hit in the wind by a new regulation, ostensi-
bly aimed at malingerers. It fixed the permissible
quantity of sick leave on full pay, regulating it ac-
cording to Red Tape’s total period of service. So far,
the new rule seemed good, and the servant didn’t
know it was loaded—until he discovered that it
was retrospective. The officer of, say, 40 years’
service finds his lost time counted up from the
beginning and blue pencilled against him. May-
be 25 years ago he lost three or four months
through typhoid ; and the spectre rises up against
him now, and probably wholly stops his pay
whenever he is absent. Teachers, exposed to all
kinds of epidemics, feel the pinch most. Kidston
was asked to consider the matter ; but Kidston is
gone and the iniquitous thing stays. The
Teachers’ Union took it up; but the Teachers’
Union is a supple-backed concern which asks for
a thing from those in power, and, when told
“No,” goes away saying “Thank you,” and for-
gets to come back.
According to Labor-member Hardacre,
the Bananaland Government would hand out
£5OOO to W. H. Ramm if it had any honesty
about it. For some time Ramm, who claims to be
the discoverer of inoculation from the blood of a
recovered beast as a preventive of.tick fever in
cattle, has been worrying the Government about
his claim to the money. The Government, how-
ever, alleges that Dr. Hunt, on behalf of the
Stock Department, had carried on experiments at
Hughenden in 1895, and in August had “recog-
nised inoculation from the blood of a recovered
beast as a preventive of tick fever,” whereas it
wasn’t till January, 1896, that Ramm wrote about
the matter’. . Hardacre, however, alleges that the
Department’s experiments had been admittedly a
failure, and draws attention to the fact that at the
Intercolonial Stock Conference held in Sydney in
August, 1896, the question of tick fever was dis-
cussed, and a resolution was passed, declaring
that “no satisfactory method of eradication or
remedy has yet been discovered”; and Queens-
land was represented at that conference.
The members of the conference also agreed
to recommend to their Governments to give
a reward of £5OOO to the first person making
known a satisfactory remedy or preventive
for tick fever. Hardacre says he began to over-
haul Ramm’s claim with a prejudiced eye; but
after looking at the proofs, his eye was too full of
scorn for the Government to have any room for
prejudice against the claimant.
THE CAUSE OF IT.
OLD EMPLOYER: “ Urn, yes;
I remember you now;
but didn't you have
grey hair!"
EEX-EMPLOYEE : Yes, sir, I did. But I hadn't been at my new job more'n a. month when the
boss raised my wages, and, after what I'd been used to, the shock of it turned my hair
black again in a single night!"
Mackay cane-growers are dipping into
their pockets for another co-operative sugar-mill,
the 10 existing factories having been beaten by the
past season’s crops. These mills, worked to their
uttermost, turned out 52,000 tons of raw sugar; and,
though that beat the previous record (1907-8) by
9000 tons, fully 16,000 tons of cane, which repre-
sents 2000 tons of sugar, were left standing. Cer-
tainly it will still be there when the next crushing
time comes round ; but it won’t be improved by
waiting, and the owners also lose the ratoons
which would have sprung up if this year’s crop had
been cut. Most of the old mills are also enlarging
themselves, and some of them are not so very old
either —one of the biggest dates back no further
than 1906. All of which brings back to mind the
fact that in 1903, after sending a reporter round to
interview 200 nigger-loving growers, the local
Tory and nigger paper prophesied as follows
It certainly means after 1907 the closing of several of
the mills, a large and direct loss of money to Mackay,
and a set-back which it will take many years to recover
from. An exodus of settlers to other parts, and a general
depreciation of values is also probable, and the growing
of small areas of sugarcane in conjunction with other
crops, the survival of a few of the most favorably situated
mills, and the placing of the sugar industry well down in
the list of Queensland’s productive industries.
Since that was written, Mackay’s 900 cane-
growers have increased to nearly 2000. Of course
the old nigger party never mentions the nigger
now. It is too busy, these times, prophesying that
disaster will spring from something else which it
knows even less about than it knew about the
nigger.
The Melting Moon.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
f 1 HE flush is fading from the blushing rose,
The scent hath fled fiorn violets sweet
and shy,
The brooklet as a brooklet only flows,
And yonder sunset’s splendor’s “ all my eye.”
Oh ! whence this sad mutation and its why ?
This haze that fills the one-time happy noon?
Whence—Whence ? I hear a whisper wander
by—
“ The Honey melteth from the Honeymoon ! ”
Thou gleaming Orb of Night, whose beams impose
A silv’ry calm on copse and upland high,
How commonplace thy shining image grows
Amid the common stars that stud the sky !
In sober tints flits by the butterfly,
And ev’ry song takes on a sombre tune.
No more a witch sweet Netty wanders nigh—
The Honey melteth from the Honeymoon !
No more the blush that o’er her forehead glows
Conveys a charm that gold could never buy ;
No more the breeze her wanton curl that blows
Is happy thrice—in Love’s impassioned cry !
No more her dimples dear in mischief ply
Until the heart-strings pulse in passion’s rune ;
Our ditties heave no more the tender sigh—
The Honey melteth from the Honeymoon.
Envoi.
Prince ! When ye meet beneath the tender tie,
Drink deep the draught, rememb’ring all too
soon
'The swift, delirious dreams must fail and die —
The Honey melteth from the Honeymoon !
QUEENSLAND.
FURNESS BORN.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, February 18, 1911.
My Dear Thargomindah,—
I hear on authority which has never been fined
for perjury that we are to have some big changes
in the local Navy, and that pretty Mrs. Richard-
son’s husband will no longer shiver his timbers
upon the bounding deck of the Paluma. Mr.
Richardson’s wife will be sadly missed, being
easily the most distinguished of the official ladies
hereabouts. In her husband’s place lam informed
that we are to have as commander the Curtis
whose fondness for the succulent onion once, it is
alleged, got him into such trouble with a Govern-
ment House Countess.
We had been looking forward to the visit
of the Battertburg Prince, and the bookshops
sold out every copy of “ Etiquette for all Occa-
sions.” The arrangement was that he should
sample the Fernberg mosquitoes before departing
for the so-called “East.” Now a hurried word
comes through saying that everything is “off”
owing to the Prince’s illness.
In spite of much fuss and cattiness, Dr. Clara
Smith has been duly appointed to the resident
staff of the impecunious General Hospital. The
bone of contention was dug up again at the last
meeting of committee by a trusty Knight, who
demanded that a doctor should not be denied the
right to enter the portals simply because of her
femininity, and denounced the objection raised by
one lady that the additional doctoring experience
should not be “ wasted ” on one of a sex which is
likely to put aside the scalpel and the salts for the
mangle arid the safety-pin of married life in a year
or so. Finally, the Knight got his way and the
doctor got the billet, and everybody is satisfied
except some cats, who are still making remarks
from the tiles.
Little Miss Lightollar, who, as I pen these
lines, is on the eve of her wedding, had a pre-
liminary trial at hostess-ship during the week.
The wetness of the weather was responsible fora
postponement of the pre-wedding tea until
Wednesday, and, when that day yawned, the den-
gue fiend had laid Mrs. Lightollar low; and Miss
“Dicky ” had, single-handed, to take on the busi-
ness of saying, “ How do you do?” “ Are you
quite well, thanks?” to about 100 Shes. With
the able assistance of a duck of a blue shantung
frock and a black hat, out of which a pink icing-
sugar plume sprang like Venus from the wave,
she got through with as much generalship- as if
she had studied under seven different mothers-in-
law.
The Sydney swimming girls have arrived, and,
judging by their,build, we are in imminent danger
of being bereft of our championship, which Miss
M. Grant, a local Annette Kellerman, is holding
on to with a grip like Kidston to a paying job.
The Mayoress shook their fins at a formal, welcome,
and subsequently turned on tea and other eat-
ables.
The book on Service and Sport in the Soudan,
written by Bimbashi Comyn, brother of the lady
whose French so delighted Calve during her visit
to Australia, is being reviewed at length in-the
English newspapers. Miss Comyn teaches the
young idea in Brisbane to spout in three lan-
guages, and if her brother’s work is as good as his
sister’s, he ought to make enough out of his book
to pay for his salt, and a bit over for celery and
cheese on Saturday nights.
The Baxter Bruce maiden has gone back to
Sydney after a visit to these shores. She is a
pretty little person with sunny smiles and a good
stock of energy, which is much better than being
an ugly individual with a club foot and a cast in
both eyes.
The new garden which waves above the Finney
Isles emporium, where the grilled chicken will
have its bones shredded and polished after Mon-
day, was the scene of a lunch 80 strong on Friday,
at the invitation of the directors. The bog-oak
green of the Tudor panelling was a charming set-
ting to the cool breeze that fanned across the stone
wall, and the menu was worth learning off by
heart. I wouldn’t mind reciting it to soft music
at the annual meeting of an historical society. If
the Finney people are going to let that sort of
menu loose among the local business men, their
wives will have to organise a vigilance committee.
The kitchen is the despair of every house-frau who
has seen it, and as for me—well, if I could elope with
the silver grill I’d count life was not all dust and
ashes.
The next tea-giver will be Mrs. Cecil Palmer,
who has packed her trans-ocean trousseau, and will
go hence in a few weeks’ time for the .place where
George V. is scheduled to have his metal hat fitted.
Evidently the lady immigrants have been read-
ing the Northern St. Wowser’s account of the
awful morals of our men-folk. One was ap-
proached on a just-arrived ship at Brisbane. A
bachelor doctor of spotless reputation required a
housekeeper. They sighted the very identical,
near 50, who had dodged through somehow. Her
face was as if it had been hammered. Still that
didn’t matter, and she was offered the job. Wrath
took her in its grip. Shades of Lucretia ! She
snorted, bridled and sniffed, and with great swell-
ing of the tail, threw the offer back into the teeth
of the impudent wretch. A bachelor doctor, in-
deed 1 Not if she knew it.
Yours affectionately,
MARIO.
The one thing in which the Brisbane Tele-
graph is undeniably consistent is its attitude of
undying hostility to the Income Tax, which it
always stigmatises as “a forced loan.” On the
other hand, this financial genius always hails any
attempt to raise a loan from Cohen as “states-
manship.” The stupid Tory rag that is so absurd
as to call a bona-fide tax a loan hasn’t the nous to
see that every loan is a tax, or succession of taxes,
and often a tax in perpetuity.
Barnes, who has just got a move-up in
the Ministry, is president of the Y.M.Q.A. and a
Wovyser of large tonnage. This is how he opens
fire in the last issue of the YiM.C.A.’s journal :
“Remember the Cross ! Make no mistake that
what you need is the Old, Old Story !’’ Which
old story ? Is it the mendacious one about an
ex-Queensland Premier having been drummed
outof Falkirk in his youthful days—a shocking
slander of which the public can’t remember seeing
any withdrawal?
“Itan”: There was another thing that
was troubling Kidston. Next election will be
carried out under the new redistribution of seats
Scheme, and instead of Rockhampton returning
two members in double harness it will return two '
in single harness. One of the seats will be a
Labor stronghold for a certainty. The other may
or may not. Grant, the senior member—Kidston.
has only been able to get second place—was not
likely to drop his chances of success by going into
the Labor enemy’s camp. So Wullie would have
been obliged to take the hopeless chance—or clear
away from Rockhampton altogether. There are
some who think that he won’t hang on to his
Land Court billet. Robinson only wants to hang
on to the Agency-General till after the Corona-
tion. After that, his time being up now, Kidston,
they think, will walk in. But there’s no cer-
tainty about that. On the contrary, Wullie isn't
the sort of man to despise a steady job like the
one on the Land Court.


Abridged Prospectus
of THE
AMALGAMATED HILL END, LTD.
To be incorporated under the Companies Ads of New South Wales.
CAPITAL £lOO,OOO, in 500,000 SHARES OF 4s. EACH.
PUBLIC ISSUE, 400,000 SHARES. PURCHASE PRICE, 100,000 SHARES an<t £lO,OOO CASH. WORKING CAPITAL, £70,000
DIRECTORS : TO BE APPOINTED.
ACTING SECRETARY: H. S. LAND.
AUDITORS : STARKEY and STARKEY, Chartered Accountants.
SOLICITORS : LOBBAN AND LOBBAN, Equitable Building.
HEAD OFFICE : EQUITABLE BUILDING, SYDNEY.
BANKERS : COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF SYDNEY, Ltd.
Shares will be issued 2s. on
ALREADY there are many applications for shares, including one for 25,000 shares. The placing
of 61,500 shares has been guaranteed without underwriting commissions. It is evident tnax
the issue will be over-subscribed, consequently the above and all other applications wi
dealt with pro rata. , „„ ~, ,
The share list will be opened on the 22nd February (instant), and close on the 22na Mai
(proximo), to enable this Prospectus to reach distant Australian goldfields.
All contracts entered into by the Vendors, and Memorandum and Articles of Association, may
be seen by intending purchasers at the office of Messrs. Lobban and Lobban, Solicitors, Equitable
Building, Sydney.
THE AMALGAMATION.
AT LAST the famous Hawkins Hill gold claims have been consolidated, and are now offered to
the public as the Amalgamated Hill End, Ltd.
FOR THIRTY YEARS all attempts to bring about amalgamation failed.
BEFORE THAT TIME the mining law prevented amalgamation. These claims produced over
20 tons of gold within 400 feet of the surface.
THE LOT MIGHT be oovered by a 25-acre lease. The area now submitted is 93 acres, all of
which was formerly occupied by public companies with large capitals.
SOME OF THE claims on the northern and southern boundaries will probably be segregated
and worked by subsidiary companies. By this means additional working capital will be found for the
development of this golden belt, and the Amalgamated, by its shareholdings, will become a parent
company.
THE MANAGING DIRECTOR, J. E. Scantlebury, went to Hill End at the request of Louis
Beyers, one of the pioneer claim-holders, who died prospecting in Western Australia while this amal-
gamation was being effected.
IN SEVERAL INSTANCES claims were secured for shares, and in others for cash and shares..
One was purchased right out —the Star of Peace.
THE HIGHEST INDIVIDUAL sum payable is £llOO and 5000 shares. In this case the Main
Tunnel, as well as the old stamp mill, is included in the purchase. ;
WORKING AND OTHER options were obtained ; a Gympie mining manager was put in
charge, and men have been employed in cleaning out old levels, etc. Payable crushings have been
put through, and now everything is ready to work all these claims as one mine.
ALREADY A PAYABLE gold-producing property is proved, and it is a only matter of pro-
specting and development for the field to re-establish itself and probably produce as much, if not
more, gold below 400 feet as above that comparatively shallow level.
EVERY MINING MAN who has visited the field confirms this view.
THE CONSOLIDATED TUNNEL has drained and given access to nearly all the old mines.
Some have been closed down for over 30 years.
CRUSHINGS TAKEN FROM faces then left us unpayable have averaged over an ounce to
the ton.
OVER 2000 TONS of mullock fillings crushed an average of 6dwt. per ton, and in the stopes
are thousands of tons which will pay to run through a bigger mill.
ANOTHER TUNNEL SITE 300 feet below the present main tunnel is available.
FOR MANY YEARS old miners have made a living by culling, dollying and crushing quartz
found in surface mullock, of which over 30,000 tons remain, and anything over 2dwt. a ton is profit if
put through a heavier and otherwise more economical stamp mill.
IT IS INTENDED to double the mill’s capacity. It will be used to further test faces, mullock
dumps and fillings, etc. ; later a big mill will be erected.
THE GOLD is free and heavy, therefore easy to save. Hill End is the only goldfield in Aus-
tralia without a cyanide plant, and apparently there is no need for one.
BROKERS: SYDNEY
MELBOURNE....
ADELAIDE
BRISBANE
BENDIGO
BALLARAT
KALGOORLIE
GYM PIE
CHARTERS TOWERS...
APPLICATIONS CAN BE SENT
THROUGH ANY MEMBER OF ANY
AUSTRALIAN STOCK EXCHANGE.
APPLICATIONS CAN ALSO BE MADE
TO THE SECRETARY, AMALGAMATED
HILL END, Ltd., EQUITABLE BUILD-
ING, SYDNEY.
application, 2s. on allotment.
IT IS INTENDED to clean out other old levels, also the Star of Peace shaft below the tunnel
level, and to extend the Main Tunnel to the east to intersect new reefs in virgin ground on a
parallel line with the old claims.
WITHIN A FEW FEET of the tunnel face is the most easterly worked vein-. Recently it was
underhand stoped below the tunnel; three crushings averaged lOoz. a ton.
BIG DEVELOPMENTS are expected further east and additional areas have been taken up to
secure deep levels.
WITHIN 80ft. of the stope and undisturbed is the reef in which Beyers and Holtermann found
their slab of gold quartz (value £12,000), and obtained from one crushing over 16,0000 z. From this
and other formations which extend over a great width payable crushings have lately been and are
being taken.
NOTHING HAS DISTURBED the reefs. They are not cut out by any intrusive rock or
change of country. They were worked down into the comparatively poor zone, but are now good
enough to pay. They were enriched by “droppers”; the phenomenal gold was invariably in the
vicinity of these “ droppers.” Hence they should be enriched again, when intersected by other “ drop-
pers” known to exist further east, and making towards the reefs at a greater depth.
THE FIRST GOLD in Australia in quartz matrix was discovered at Hill End ; years later, on
the Hawkins Hill portion of the field, bonanzas were found. None were found on the surface.
THERE WERE issued at that time miners’ rights, which enabled one man to hold 30ft. on the
line of reef, two men 60ft. with a maximum area of 120 ft., and so the field was pegged out. The first
claims taken up were not contiguous; hence, as seen by the plan, some of the intervening claims were
less than 30ft. For instance, Brown’s western boundary was 30ft. long, but his eastern was only
13ft. Out of this little claim came two tons of gold.
NEARLY ALL THE CLAIMS in the list were sold for cash to individual companies without
working capital, for such was considered unnecessary because of their richness.
THERE ARE NO OFFICIAL records of the total gold. Records were not obligatory, there-
fore few official returns were furnished. But the public companies working the claims now embraced
in this amalgamation produced over £1,000,000 in gold.
MORE GOLD was got by claim holders before they sold. The total production from the claims
now for the first time amalgamated must have been between £2,000,000 and £3,000,000.
IT IS BELIEVED that rich gold deposits still remain in the old workings of such claims as
Krohmann’s, Beyers and Holtermann’s, Paxton’s and others above the tunnel from which access is
available, and that some have been missed altogether.
OTHER BONANZAS discovered by the owners of one claim on the boundaries of another were
probably concealed until arrangements for their extraction could be made, which death and other un-
foreseen events prevented.
ALREADY ONE PROPOSAL has been made to unearth one of these hidden treasures on tri-
bute, for which 50 per cent, royalty is offered, and other proposals are likely to be made when it is
known that all the claims have passed into the possession of one company.
AN AGREEMENT has been entered into respecting a rich deposit of gold, alleged to have been
concealed nearly 40 years ago, in which the company will participate to the extent of 50 per cent, if
anything is revealed.
THE PRESENT BENDIGO gold-mining revival is entirely due to the finding of a rich forma-
tion in a shallow level of the Central Red, White and Blue, and as a result the shares jumped from
ss. to £5.
HAD THE SAME conditions existed in Victoria and Queensland in respect to the size of the
original quartz claims as at Hill End up to 1873, Bendigo, Ballarat, Charters Towers and Gympie to-
day would be in the same derelict condition. These fields were started with larger areas; they were
continued and saved from collapse by amalgamation and other operations in unison, and while they pros-
pered under rignt conditions, Hill End, in the absence of them, remained derelict and unworked,
though experienced mining men who examined Hill End came away convinced that more gold could
be got below the 400 ft. level than was ever obtained above it.
THERE IS NOT a goldfield in Australia worthy of the name that has not encountered a com-
paratively poor or barren zone. Hill End is the only goldfield in Australia that has stopped at 400 feet,
yet it got more gold above that depth than any other Australian goldfield, and unquestionably should
be worked down to 4000 feet.
FOR SOME YEARS the New South Wales Mines Department, with the object of re-opening
the Hill End field, offered a subsidy of £30,000. Then amalgamation was again attempted and
again failed, and without consolidation the subsidy was useless.
FOR SEVERAL YEARS all abandoned ground was reserved from mining lease; but the
principal claims were always manned and therefore held.
ASSURANCE IS GIVEN that the subsidy will again be made available as soon as warranted
by consolidation, such as now achieved, and by mining development, such as this Company is about
to undertake.
AT ONE TIME the Star of Peace was worked by an English company, who carried the shaft
on the underlay on the Star of Peace reef to a depth of 800 ft. Subsequently the shaft was condemned
and abandoned.
ONE BY ONE thirty to forty shafts in this area caved. They were simply timber boxes, the
ground being worked around them, and up to the time the workings were drained by the Consolidated
tunnel little could be seen.
FROM TIME TO TIME mining men went to Hill End to see if anything could be done, but
came away disgusted with the prohibitive demands made by way of cash.
TO-DAY, WITH THE tunnel driven through the reefs, with old levels cleaned out, with large
faces of payable stone exposed, with many thousands of tons of mullock waiting for the mill, with
every prospect of history repeating itself in the virgin ground to the east and again in the well-
known reefs at a greater depth, the Amalgamated Hill End, as shown on the accompanying plan, is
presented to the public on the terms herein set forth.
IN THE DAYS OF THE HILL END BOOM.
Fads and Figures taken from many pages of the “5.M. Herald” during 1872.
May 18.—KROHMANN’S : “ The excitement continues,
nor is this to be wondered at. The extraordinary
success of the field is sufficient to arouse the en-
thusiasm of the most indifferent. A crushing’ from
Krohmann’s was so rich that the plates had to be
cleaned every hour ; 16 tons 12cwt. were crushed for
56200 z. The nine tons of pyrites saved by blankets
contained lOOOoz.”
May.—“ The shares in the Company recently floated are
at 100 per cent, premium.”
May.—“ One hot last we k yielded 401 b. weight of gold,
and the rich vein is yielding at the rate of 2000 oz. to
the ton.”
June 23.—“ Crushed 436 tons 9cwt. for 24,4790 z. 9dwt.,
value £93,616 11s. 9d.” (This enabled a dividend
equal to the capital of the Company—£Bo,ooo—to be
paid.)
Oct. 22.—“ Crushed 71 tons to make room for a new plat,
and obtained 4790 z.”
Dec. 25.—“ Obtained over 4600 z. from 70 tons ‘ seconds.’
The crushing of ‘firsts’ will go close on 10,0000 z.,
and the two crushings were got within 13 weeks.”
June 23.—BEYERS AND HOLTERMANN: “Weight of
nugget is 6301 b., height 4ft. 9in., and width 2ft. 2in.,
value £12,000 ; 2cwt. of gold has been obtained from
10 tons quartz. Mint returns of the big- crushing,
415 tons, 16,2800 z., value £63,236.” (From this crush-
ing a 75 per cent, dividend was paid on the £72,000
capital of the Company.)
July 3.—“ 1 Billy the Spider ’ put in a shot yesterday, and
got SOOoz.”
Oct. 26.—“ Over scwt. amalgam has been taken from the
boxes and plates.”
Oct. 29.—“ Eight cwt. amalgam has now been lifted, and
yesterday a second nugget was landed.” (As a
matter of fact, the so-called nuggets were really
quartz specimens.)
Dec. 25. —“ Last night, whilst timbering in Beyers and
Holtermann’s, it was necessary to put in a shot and
a show of gold was brought down that has hardly
ever been excelled in the mine. The find was made
at the 221 ft. level.”
PAXTON’S : “ The richest crushing ever taken from the
field came from this mine. It consisted of only 2 tons,
and yielded 42000 z.”
March 2.—“ A hemisphere of gold is on view to-day, con-
taining over 4000 oz.”
May 18.—“ A twelfth share, originally costing £250, and
havjng had dividends amounting to £756, was sold
to-day for £1700.”
June 3.—‘‘Eleven months ago one-fifth interest in this
mine was sold for £3OOO. A few weeks later the same
share was sold for £6OOO, and to-day £12,000 lias been
refused for the same share.”
June 4. —“A crushing representing eight weeks’ work,
268. J tons, yielded 7108 oz.”
Nov. 22.—MANAGER’S REPORT: “We have 12ft. of
crushing stuff. It is all to be taken out to get at the
two leaders. The cartage, packing and handling on
the precipitous hill renders all but rich stone useless,
and we are dumping the poorer stone over the bur-
row.”
May 11.— COCK, ATTWOOD, AND DWYER’S: “1520
tons from this mine have been crushed f0r92390z., and
a company of £90,000 capital is to be formed.”
May 11.—RAWSTHORNE’S : “In the west stope they
' have struck Krohmann’s veins, and the result is
worth seeing. The stone is thick and heavy with gold,
not' only from the reefs but from the hanging wall,
where pieces of conglomerate are encrusted with gold.
A company of £120,000 is being formed.’’
Peb. 17.— MONTE CHRISTO (Hurley and Moore): “ This
little mine has crashed to date 237 tons for 70820 z.”
Jan. 15.—“ PULLEN AND RAWSTIIORNE’S battery has
crashed from different Hawkins Hill claims 1943 tons
for 15,3330 z.”
STAR OP PEACE.—MANAGER’S REPORT.
April 21, 1880.
BOTTOM LEVEL.—There is a crosscut west at this
level for 40ft., catting 14 gold-bearing veins, and as there
are only three veins known in higher levels, this proves
that we have a new country coming in the bottom, where
we may have rich new veins coming in at any time from
the west.
M VRKET VALUES-MONDAY, OCTOBER 7, 1872.
PAXTON’S £147,000
HICKSON, CREIGHTON AND BEARD’S 90,000
COCK, ATTVVOOD AND CO 80,000
BEYERS AND HOLTERMANN’S .. .. 190,000
KROHMANN’S 200,000
CARROLL AND BEARD’S 130,000
STAR OP PEACE 95,000
RAPP’S 103,000
TOTAL VALUATION .. .. £1,035,000
AND THESE ARE THE MINES that stopped at 400 ft., while those of Gympie, Charters Towers and Bendigo have gone down to
4000 ft. Several Kalgoorlie mines, opened within the last 14 years, are already down over 2000 ft.
The base line was about 800 ft., so that the market value was over £l2OO a foot. The above represents only one=third of the
amalgamated claims, and less than one=tenth of the total area.
FORM OF APPLICATION FOR SHARES
To the Secretary, Amalgamated Hill End, Limited, Equitable Building, Sydney.
I hereby apply for shares in the above-named Company on the terms of the Company's Prospectus,
dated the 22nd day of February, iqii, and / hereby agree to accept the same (or any smaller number that may be
allotted to me), and to pay the balance of two shillings per share on allotment, and / authorise you to register me as the
holder of the said shares. I enclose £ being the application money of two shillings per share for the shares
applied for. by me.
Name (in full)
Address (in full)
Profession or Business
Signature
Date
rqri.
Write or wire for Full Prospectus and Plan to The Secretary Amalgamated Hill End, Ltd., Equitable Building, Sydney.


ITCHING ECZEMA
WAS INTOLERABLE
Eruption Spread Over Face and
Body—Shamefully Disfigured—
Had to Tie Hands and Feet and
Bandage Face to Stop Agonized
Scratching—Even Specialists
THOUGHT IT INCURABLE
BUT CUTICURA CURED HER
“Some three rears ago I suffered from
a slight rash which grew gradually to
such a pitch that it developed into
weeping eczema. So bad was I, the
disease spreading over my face and
whole body, that I would only go out
wearing a veil so extremely thick that
my features were unrecognizable and I
myself could hardly see. In addition
to this, every night, on account of the
terrible Itching and sores, my hands had
to be bound up and then tightly tied
behind my back and as even then so
intolerable was the agony that I would
scratch where possible with my feet and
rub my face against the bed clothes; my
parents had eventually to firmly tie my
feet together and bind a silk handker-
chief all over my face.
“I mention those facts with reluc-
tance but they show the condition to
which I was reduced. This went on for
nearly two jmars in spite of specialists
and treatments at two hospitals, but
all gave me up as incurable. I was then
advised to try Cuticura and, being des-
perate, did so. I slept better the first
night, and persevering, the itching grad-
ually grew less, and the sores disap-
peared. Now lam free from blemish,
rid of the irksome bandages and can
dispense with a veil. My cure is so
wonderful and complete that I feel I
should like others to know of this and,
though you will quite appreciate from
the above facts my not disclosing my
name, I hope that you will see fit to
publish this letter for the benefit of
others. I am now only twenty, so you
will understand what my cure means
to me. L y G m, Grand Pa-
rade, Eastbourne, Eng., Aug. 27, 1909.”
Reference: It. Towns A Co., Sydney.
Cuticura Is the most economical treatment known
for the skin, scalp, hair and hands, of infants,
children and adults. A tablet of Cuticura Soap and
a box of Cuticura Ointment are often sufficient to
cure. Sold throughout the world. Depots: London.
27, Charterhouse Sq.: Paris, 10, Rue de la 1 Chaussce
d’Antin; Australia, R. Towns & Co., Sydney: U.S.A.,
Potter Drug & Chem. Corp., Sole Props., Boston.
XKg'Post-fiee 32-page Cuticura Book, a complete
Guide,to the Care of the Skin and Scalp and the
Best Treatment of their Diseases.
AN EMPEROR S APPRECIATION.
The Emperor of Austria has conferred a unique
distinction, as also has the Vienna Chamber of
Science conferred its highest award, upon Dr.
Soheuble, of Vienna, for his discovery of
“Samol.” a treatment for Rheumatism, Gout,
Lumbago, Sciatica, and kindred ailments. So
effective is this treatment that pain is relieved
within a few seconds of its application, and the
poisonous causes of these ailments rapidiy
neutralised and eliminated.
As soon as the necessary arrangements can be
made, “Samol” will be obtainable from all chem-
ists ; in the meanwhile, in order to allow sufferers
to test the efficacy of this great discovery, it can
be obtained, price 3/9 and G/- per tube, post free,
from the representative of Dr. Scheuble—H. A.
Goddard. 96 E igle St., Brisbane ;.and H. A. God-
dard, 194 Vickery’s Chambers, Pitt St., Sydney. [1
Free to Smokers!
g—an———■———■—i—
Mr. R. J. Hinton, Jerrara Creek, Marulan,
N.S.W., writes:—
“ It gives me great pleasure to inform you that I
have been completely cured of the Tobacco
Habit by your wonderful Tobacco Specific, after
using tobacco heavily for seven years, sometimes
Boz. to lOoz. in the week. It is now 12 months
since I last used tobacco, and, although I am con-
tinually in the company of smokers, I do not have
the least desire to smoke, therefore I consider
the cure permanent.
“My general health is now perfect; all my
former complaints, such as irregular Heart
Action, Dizziness, Nervousness and Stomach
Trouble, which I have every reason to believe
were caused through the use of tobacco, have en-
tirely disappeared, and are only remembered as a
hideous nightmare. I eat and sleep well. and feel
fit to face the world again. It will give me great
pleasure to recommend your remedy to others.”
FREE SAMPLE.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you a FREE
SAMPLE of Tobacco Specific, also Booklet, Testi-
monials, etc.
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
DEPT. G, VICTORIA ARCADE, SYDNEY. 0
AN Australian’s Two Hands—THE LONE
HAND and THE BULLETIN. You can’t
do without either, and they both cost the same.
BEAUTY’S FIRST STEP
Mrs. Wentworth-Lang, the well-known Beauty
Specialist, says
“If you would be beautiful, you must be
healthy; to be bright and healthy, your bodily
functions must be regular. Take, whe.iever
you feel you need it, a Laxatine Lozenge.
LAXATINE
will cleanse your system, without interfering
with either your work or your pleasure.”
All Chemists and Storekeepers, 1/- box.
[1
A BEAUTIFUL FOOT
Makes a Woman Attractive.
Ladies know what a stylish, well-shod foot means.
A smart shoe tones up the entire costume and
stamps the wearer as being well dressed.
We keep our fingers on the pulse of every depend-
able source of shoe supply in the world, and
gather in the best styles as soon as produced.
The Shoe illustrated is one of the newest
and neatest models, and is reasonable
in price, being quoted at 16/6.
Price J 6 / 6
LEEMING’S BOOT STORES,
109 Swanston Street, Melbourne; 257=259 Bourke Street, Melbourne;
303 Chapel Street, Prahran; I=3 Errol Street, North Melbourne. [2
TRADE
MARK
In Asthma
Freeman’s Chlorodyne
is a veritable life-saver.
The terrible wheezing and choking quickly yield to a few doses
of Freeman’s, and perseverance with it will effect a lasting cure.
Excellent also for Colds, Influenza, Bronchitis, Spasms, Diarrhoea, Colic, &c.
Recommended by Doctors for sixty-five years. Piice 1/li, 2 9 and 4/6 per bottle.
gJBSJI'' Be sure to get FREEMAN’S the original Chlorodyne "33S®
It is an ideal remedy keep it handy.
If your Chemist is
out of stock,order
a bottle, he can
quickly get it.
NEVER accept
imitations.
FREEMANS
CHLORODYNE
“The Waybacks Again.”
Another
stack of
joy and laughter about the famous family. 18.
CARBIDE.
For First-class Results use Best Scandinavian
“PERNIX” CARBIDE.
Addresses of Merchants distributing it can be obtained
from AUGUST BLUMENTHAL LIMITED, 62 Pitt
Street, Sydney, Sole Agents for Australia.
-TOBACCO POISON-
Smokers Never Escape
Disease caused by
Excessive Smoking:
but die yearly from
Heart Disease and Paralysis.
There (a no epidemic or dilease which destroys so
ruthlessly thousands of our best youths and men yearly
as the disease known as " Excessive Smoking.*
The blood is burned out by the nicotine or tobacco
poison; the nerves are shattered, and heart and brain
lose all power and become, in 99- per cent, of cases,
diseased.
Physicians all over the world condemn the habit
and the vice. They know it is the destroyer of the
smoker—sooner or later.
* * * s> a
A great French nerve specialist in "SMOKURE™
Tablets has discovered the antidote for tobacco pois-
on, and which quickly repairs the ravages caused by
it, giving strength and life to the nerves, blood, brain
and heart. It quickly cures all ill effects and saves
life. Send stamp for free particulars to
THE NICOTO-MANIA TABLET CO.,
75 Wentworth Court, Elizabeth St., Sudntty.
Ladies
pride themselves upon their
table appointments. One
thing that is always “ most
excellent” is
Ctrebos
s&ir
Used all the world over.
Agents—Harrison and A ttwood, Sydney.
Seasonable
Suitings.
WE nave made arrangements with our
home buyer to send us fortnightly
shipments, during the season, of the
manufacturers’ latest productions in the
newest patterns, reserved exclusively to us,
and are showing them at our new and
well-lighted premises in Market Street,
where we shall be pleased to see our patrons.
DAVID BRAHAM 8 CO.,
TAILORS and COSTUMERS,
76 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY
(Next to Farmer's).
Sole Agents for AERTEX CELLULAR
UNDERWEAR, SHIRTS, etc.
THREE WITCHES
CIGARETTES.
WfOttKlSS
WfchsH
CMABITTtS
19
6° for
Mad*.
LOMM
HIGHEST GRADE,
fis per 100, Post Free.
MICK SIMMONS, SYDNEY.
Storekeepers and Tobacconists should
send for our Trade Lists.
*
Food
FOR INFANTS , INVALIDS AND THE AGED.
A food of great nutritive value, which can be made
suitable for any degree of digestive power by the
simple process of letting it stand for a longer or
shorter period at one stage of its preparation.
Danger’s Food forms with milk, a dainty, delicious and
highly nutritive cream, entirely free from rough and
indigestible particles. “The Lancet” describes it as
“Mr. Benger’s admirable preparation.”
BENGER'S FOOD, LIMITED, Otter Works, Manchester, England.
ffienger s Food is sold in tins by Druggists, etc., everywhere.
823
The Inky Way.
“ Gwy ”: It is regrettable that, in the most democratic
of professions in this democratic country, an attempt
should he made to set up anything approaching an aris-
tocracy ; yet that is just what the blue-blooded exclusive-
ness of the A.J.A., as interpreted by “ Hassan,” amounts
to. The A.J.A. is building, not on rock, hut on shifting
sand when it imagines that the alleged generosity
of its proprietors is a security for all time. Clarence
o'H.’s”case shows that much. Further.no successful
union that the writer knows—-and he believes in the
Pressmen’s Union, after a spell of trying to rejoice in a
make-believe one —ignores the casual worker. And not
all those outside the metropolitan dailies are hoys, dead-
heats or workers on the “ butter wraps.” Writer could
name half a dozen men who have left the big dailies
within the last couple of years, still staying in journalism,
hut benefiting financially by the change. Casual men
(i.e., contributors and so forth) must be provided for in
any award, and cheap or blackleg labor (our friend the
parson-contributor and cribbed stuff) must be limited or
discouraged in some way. This would improve local
journalism, lessen the hash of the Titbits and Life class,
and, incidentally, educate the local reading public,
all of which things are wanted. The greatest
obstacle to better conditions for journalists ap-
pears to be the journalists themselves. They don’t
properly realise that they belong to a profes-
sion, and they only half believe in themselves. The
weakest bodies of workers—shop assistants, clerks and
so forth—have organised and secured better conditions,
and none have been smitten for temerity. Yet the shop-
assistant class could be swamped; whereas, who would
dare to replace a morning daily staff with raw bands?
It would be less expensive to double screws all round.
In spite of his power to demand better terms, the jour-
nalist persists.in his silly individualism, because a few of
him draw “ prizes ” while 80 per cent, are underpaid. No
wonder the unions laugh at us. We’re fools.
* * * *
“ Clarence O’Hagan " : “ Hassan ” is a living exemplifi-
cation of the say ing that even the youngest of us may be
wrong. Ido not know him, nor does he know me, but I
am certain he is very young—his enthusiasm to rush in
and barrack for the poor newspaper proprietors and his
readiness to give advice prove it. He needn’t worry
about my work on papers. The thing is not to let a real
live issue like this be obscured by wranglings and per-
sonalities, or the respective merits or demerits of rival
bodies or individuals. What we want is a Union of press-
men, artists and the related trades (if necessary, 1 would
admit block and “process” men and scene-painters)
which will secure a better rate of pay all round, and par-
ticularly to the unfortunate, spineless “ staff ” reporter
on the alleged big dailies. By-the-bye, how is it that the
bigger the daily the smaller the pay to the unhappy
scribes ?
**' * *
“Cam”; Most Australians in London are acquainted
with Ye Old Cheshire Cheese, a tavern in Fleet-street,
much frequented by tourists and pressmen. Its chief
attractions are a famous steak and oyster pudding,
toasted cheese and old ale (strong as sin and as seduct-
ive). Also the fact that Dr. Johnson used to patronise
the place. The visitors’book (in four volumes) is quite
interesting. Not only do we learn a lot about the emo-
tions of people from Johnsonville, Na., and similar places,
but Dickens, Thackeray and the like have also described
how the aforesaid pudding, cheese and ale affected them.
One entry should be of interest to Australians ; “ Henry
H. Morant, S. Australian Mounted Rifles—
“ Upon the veldt we used to line,
But feel much more at ease,
With ‘ pudding’ and a glass o’ wine
At Ye Old Cheshire Cheese.
“ H. H. Morant (‘The Breaker ’),
“Svdney Bulletin, Nov. 27, 1900.”
• * « *
“To the Official of The Bulltin, as the person may not
be there. I would like to now if there is eny vacancy in
your factry. I have ritten about, 180 paragrafts to your
paper this year two of them were excepted an’ paid for.
Besides bein’a riter I can scrub out offices run messiges
and I think I coud drown the wild cat if it is much
botther. I can produce refrences from orl the publickens
in my district stateing I am a caperble drinker an’ don’t
break glasses, also I have acted as boots. I didn’t now
till I borrewed the Chrismas number that you had a pub
in Sydney specerly kept for your workers. 1 was reedin'
er bit of poetry' when I casuelly looked at the title and
seen that it was ‘ Who keeps the pub in Sydney now for
The Bulletin,’ so I strate away sat dowrn and rote this
application. A factry that can run a pub is what I’ve
been looking for orl me live. I have also served behind
the bar. Thankin’ you for past rejectyuns, I remain
yours Truly Spoff Abbett.”
“Dunno”: Don’t wish to encourage “The Snake” in
his “Startling Rhyme” competition (B. 17/11/T0), but on
behalf of the Passed-out Poets and Dejected Contributors’
Union, I’d like to recall this by Mr. Coleridge :
“ We pledged our hearts, my love and I,
In my arms the maiden clasping ;
I could not tell the reason why,
But, oh, I trembled like an aspen ! ”
Now, can “ Bellerive” or “The Wasp” beat that?
* « * *
“The Oldest Inhabitant”: Apropos Sands’ Directory
(B. 12/1/T1). Sydney' Directory for 1851, published
bv W. & F. Ford, of Lower George-street, contained
255 pages, including advertisements. Sands’ Direc-
tory', published in the same street in 1911, or 60 years
after, has something like 2000 pages all told. Waugh and
Cox succeeded the Fords. Their 1855 Directory had,
including advts., 304 pages. Their place of business was
on the corner of Robin Hood-lane, and next the General
Washington Hotel. John Sands’ first Directory (1858-9)
had 330 pages. It was published by Sands & Kenny
of 392 George-street, Sydney, and 40 Collins-street,
Melbourne.
IN CLARA'S HAIR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I wrote a poem when the morn was young,
A lovely thing of airy' fancies made,
With music rippling through it, harpings flung
To grace an elfin gambol in the shade,
Or like the song by some rapt goddess sung
At dewy twilight in a myrtle glade
When the world loved, and all the winds were laid.
I polished all the lines with skill and pride.
I made the rhymes shine clear as stars of night;
I filled it with the sweep of moon and tide,
And all the scented joys of Spring's delight.
It was an offering meet for queen or bride,
For not one phrase was worn or old or trite,
But every faset gleaned like emer ild bright.
I rubbed it softly with the silk of dreams—
Each chosen word became a priceless gem.
I tucked into the corners golden gleams
As of sun-smitten seas when over them
The splendid banner of the evening streams,
And all Heaven’s rose nods earthward on the stem.
Or pascal moons that crown Jerusalem.
It was a boshter piece of work when done.
My wearied eyes were lighted with a smile
T.' gaze upon the verses I had won
From an unwilling language. Void of guile,
I saw its equal feet delighted run
To seize its prey of silver coins a-pile ;
I sighed to know my singing worth my while.
The editor approved it, loved it well.
Within a corner of his crowded print
The luminous radiance of its spirit fell;
And all its clear rose-lustre, tint by tint,
And all its music like a far-heard bell,
Seemed of deep vales of Arcady to bint
Where white doves through the binding blossoms glint.
Thereafter I forgot it, till a day
When wildered with the winsomeness of Clare,
I sought her early’. All the world was gay,
And she, in merry mood, to make her fair
Had curled her dainty locks that love to stray
In wisps of paper. All my song was there
Twined, in the frontlet of her shining hair.
N.S.W.
PAT O'MAORI.


New Records
for the EDISON
PHONOGRAPH.
The March issue of Edison Amberol
and Standard Records will be on sale at
all dealers to-morrow. Included in it
are five Grand Opera Amberol Records
of unusual excellence.
Such popular favorites as Manuel
Remain, Florrie Forde, Alexander
Prince, Ada Jones and Peter Dawson
are among the contributors.
Call on the nearest Edison dealer
to-morrow (Friday) and ask him to
play over some of these Records for
you. You’ll be sure to want some of
them for your collection. If you do not
know the address of a dealer, write us
and we will tell you that of the nearest,
and also send you the latest lists.
NATIONAL PHONOCRAPH CO. OF AUSTRALIA,
LTD. (Wholesale Only),
Dept. B, 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
Vfflieri its a 3*e
ash hor hTe,
a,
It’s positively the
only way to make
sure of satisfaction.
I know, you know,
I’m Onoto, the Pen.
I never refuse to
write when you want
me to, I never splut-
ter nor scratch.
I am made by
British labour. But
that isn’t the end of
the story.
-I fill myself in a flash without
filler or mess
—I clean myself in filling
—I never loak
-I am fitted with a gold nih—
iridium pointod-that will last.
These are the merits that make me
the pen of the day, that have given the
past three years complete satisfac-
tion to tens of thousands of users—my
most cordial friends.
12/- wisely spent at your stationer’s
to-day will enable you to join the band
of Onoto users. Spend it to-day, and
make a life-long friend of
Pen
19
Booklet about me will be sent free to all
Interested on applicaticn to T. DE LA RUE
& CO., Ltd., 258 Bunhill Row, London, E. 0.,
or the Australasian Representative.
NORMAN BAKER, 50' York Street, Sydney.
1
■w
rOt all the girls
I love the best.
There’s none
like pretty
Sail /.
She always is
so smartly
dressed,
She irons her
clothes with
“ ualli.*’*
* “Dalli" the best,
most simple, and
most comfortable
way ot ironing. In-
dependent of stove
and gas, it can be
used anywhere.
Of all Storekeepers.
Stocked by—
Anthony Hordern & Sons, Sydney.
F. Lassetter & Co., Ltd., Sydney.
bewart of worthless Imitations.
Dalli
ESI
BIUMAULTS INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Coughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GKIMATJLT & Co’s INDIAN CIGAR-
ETTES. Sold by all Chen • isis.
SCIENCE
behind it !
PEBECO is a complete scientific health
course for the mouth and teeth.
Its alkaline properties correct the acidity of
the saliva, prevent bacterial inroads upon the
teeth and deodorise the breath. Pebeco imparts
a pearly whiteness, arrests decay, removes tartar,
and, by invigorating the tissues, remedies shrink-
ing gums.
PEBECO
Tooth Paste
is highly antiseptic, and, if regularly used, pre-
vents many diseases of the mouth and throat.
Of all Chemists, etc.
SOLI! AGENT—
C ARNOLD, 6 C’Donncll St., Sydney.
(Wholesale only.)
PGBCCO
TOOTH O»5Tf
BEARDS
BRITISH
BUILT
BIOSCOPES
The Ideal Cinematograph
for Showmen.
These famous machines are guaranteed
in every particular—a better needn’t
be sought, because they cannot be
bought.
No flicker with them, and simplicity
itself to operate.
Let us send you full particulars.
We stock everything for the
Bio-Showman. Ask for our
List of Secondhand Films.
£3710/-
JERDAN’S, “THE CINEMATOGRAPH
393 George Street Ro^i a H n o g tei), Sydney.
1 ' > «■
A
A Bag of Tricks.
We have an enormous variety of Won-
derful Amusing Tricks, Novelties
and Surprises. Get our Catalogue.
cs
w
n
CHINESE RING BAR
PUZZLE.
Endless amusement. The
idea is to remove the handle
from the rings. Looks so
simple, yet puzzles them all
till they know how. Well
made of solid polished brass.
Kits vest pocket. Write for
it to-day, enclosing stamps
for amount.
1/- Post Free.
THE LONG AND SHORT
PACK OF CARDS.
The company selects any num-
ber of cards, shuffles pack, and
returns to performer, who
holds them behind him and
produces every one chosen.
Unequalled effect—simple to
perform. 1/6 Post Free.
“ PICRITOUT.”
The New Three-Card Trick.
The performer can always spot
the ace, yet the same card, if
pointed out to the audience,
is always the wrong one.
7d. Po3t Froo.
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.
(H. L. HUTCHINSON LTD.),
710 George Street, Sydney; also
111 King Street 8 25-27 Oxford Street. A
rAPIT T AUTNF THE MOUSTACHE PRODUCER
GROW A MANS MOUSTACHE.
You look such a youth with that white, soft down on your upper lip.
“ Oh, he’s only a boy ! ” people say slightingly, when they speak of you.
Grow a moustache, sir. Yes, you can— CAPBLLARINE will gi\e you
a splendid moustache growth. Simply forces the hair out long and
strong. No one can tell you use it.
Capillarine costs 10/6 a. jar, posted to any part of the
World in plain wrapper.
Get a C. & A. Moustache Trainer, which makes the mous-
tache a nice shape. Worn at night. 2,6 post free.
SEND FOR OUR FREE ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIST.
CRAIG & AITKIN
654 George St., Sydney.
Established
30 Years.
1-
Y
YOU DON’T KNOW WHAT A
‘SMOKE 1 IS TILL YOU’VE
tried MY CIGARS
<ZcVY\ t
I’M going to have my Cigars smoked over every
part of Australasia—and the most confirmed
pipe-smokers are going to be the biggest
smokers of my Cigars, too,
Talk about joy! Why, to sit round a camp
fire, over a billy of tea, pitching to your mates,
each of you smoking one of my Cigars, joy isn't
in it! It's just simply bliss!
As the yarns go round, the blue smoke
curling upwards in a fragrant cloud, the
smooth cool Havana flavor lingering on your
lips—l tell you, you’d spend some of the
happiest hours of your life.
Letters are coming in to
me in shoals from all over
Australasia, praising up my
Cigars. Take one I've just
got as I write this, for in-
stance —it’s from a chap on a
cattle station up in Northern
Queensland. He writes:—
“Those DIADEMAS Cigars
ofyoursare just alright. I've
always smoked a pipe—hut
no more. Not that I’ve given
up pipe-smelting altogether;
but when I want areal smoke
—something rich—l light up
one of your DIADEMAS,
and give myself up to its
pure enjoyment.”
To make you acquainted
with my Cigars, and prove
their value, I make you this
FREE OFFER of
5 or 6 CIGARS
you may select.
Send for* 100 of any of
Remit the amount, and
I will deliver promptly,
postage or carriage paid,
to any address in Aus-
tralia.
Smoke 5 of 6 of them, and if they’re
not superior to most Cigars at double the
price, send the remainder back to me, and
I’ll return every penny of your money —no
charge made for the Cigars you’ve smoked.
My Cigars are made from the very finest
mild, rich mellow Tobacco, the filling or inside
heart of the cigar being all straight long
leaf. The Cigars are hand-made by skilled
workers, and every box has to pass me before
it goes out to a customer; and is guaranteed
to burn freely and draw easily.
There s no “catch” about this offer—it’s just
plain and honest. To prove it, you can refer
as to my financial position and way of doing
business to the Manager of the Commercial Bank
of Australia, Collins Street, Melbourne. He’ll
vouch for me.
Send down for a box to-day—once you smoke
them you 11 make it a habit, and buy regularly
from me. When ordering, say whether you
like light, medium, or dark colors,
My Only Address is
LOUIS KAUFFMANN
54 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE
“ KXJRLO "-Hair-Cur ing Fluid. Beaut ful
wavy hair is most admired. " Kurlo ” produces
mo t natural-looking waves or curls in a few
days. Very little trouble ; no tongs or pins re-
quired. “ Kurlo ” curls are not affected by fog,
.-,ei air, heated ballrooms, etc. May be used
for Ladies’, Gent’s or Children’s hair,
nor greasy; makes the hair soft and
2S. 6a., post plain wrapper. A
Ag ncy, Box 466 G.P.0., Melbourne.
Neither sticky
silky. Bottles,
mirlcan Toilet
£
“GRO-A-MO" forces growth of moustache and whis*
kers. Bottles, 25., post free, in plain wrapper.
American Toilet Agency, Box 166 G P. 0., Melbourne.
•* AWL-YOU-WANT."
THE GEM SEWING AWL.
EVERYBODY CAN USE IT.
Repairs Bags, Belts, Straps, Harness, Boots, Shoes; Sew»
2s • Posted.
(Awl, 2 needles,
x reel cotion.)
Carpets, Canvas, Blinds, Tarpaulins
etc., etc., with a LOCK-STITCH.
J
Its immense value in repairs to Boots
and Shoes is now well known, and in
repairs to Bags, Belts, S raps, etc., it
is the “ Awi-you-waiit," Thread from 1119
reel (which may be kept in one's pocket) is
supplied continuously—a great advantage,
apparent in sev'ing Carpets, Canvas, Blinds, Tarpaulins, etc;
Need es are interchangeable, extra ones can always be obi alli-
ed, Stout or Fine, Bent or Straight.
PRICE—Gem Sewing Awl <p*lished wood handle, brass
fit; mgs, brass bobbin, 2 steel needles— 1 bent, 1 straight-- 1 reel
prepared cotton), 2s. complete, post tree. Extras: CoU«*n,
5d., post tree. Needles (stout or line, straight or bent), 4<1.,
p.»st free ; 2 for ?d., set 01 8 for 2s. Send postal note to
BTAK NOVELTY CO . 228 Col-ins Street. Melbourne.
r | UiE BEsT STORIES written
JL appear in The Lone Hand
Price sixpence.
in Austral a
each mouth


The sudden announcement that Victoria’s
new Governor has been selected and will leave
shortly to take up his job is a nasty jolt to the
party in the Vic. Leg. Assembly which demands
the abolition of imported vice-regalities. Toutcher,
M.L.A., who leads the movement, always pain-
fully explains that he “doesn’t propose to upset
the present occupant ” of the billet. Toutcher and
his mild fellow-insurrectionaries will now have at
least five more years wherein to mention that they
don’t mind this Ex., but they’ll be hanged if
they’ll stand another.
Samuel Mauger recently spoke this piece
on the Federal referendum :
The referendum involved a unification proposal. That
'vas a danger in itself. In saying that he must not be
regarded; as a defender of the existing system of State
Government. He agreed that the number of State
Governors and Agents-General could be reduced, and
that in other respects the machinery of State Government
should be, completely revolutionised. But there was a
great difference between that idea and iviping out the
State Governments completely.
Samuel Mauger is understood to be a local
preacher; wherefore Samuel would probably be
very much hurt if, having mentioned that Jones
had died, it was alleged, that Samuel had inferred
that that was the end of Jones. Nevertheless that
would be no worse fable than the one S. Mauger
permits himself to repeat in connection with a
movement which, while it proposes to unify, also
proposes to reconstruct.
“The Jew-lizard ” : Re par (B. 9/2/T1)
on the argument of a woman-agitator who formed
part of the Edwards reprieve deputation to the
Mayor of Melbourne. The woman didn’t say
that “it comes as naturally to a man to fire a gun
as to a woman to button a glove.” That’s what
the combined genius of crack daily-paper-report-
erdom and daily-paper-snub-editordom spoke-
shaved it down to before launching it on a guile-
less public. The argument was on the question
of deliberation. The Mayor had been harping on
the fact that the boy had “got his gun and put
in a cartridge and levelled the weapon at his
father, when the woman in question somewhat
reminded his omniscience that there are various
degrees in deliberation—that for young Edwards
to pick up a loaded gun (as he did) was not neces-
sarily a mark of deliberation, but rather of frenzied
impulse, and that, under ordinary circumstances,
and to a sportsman, the act of handling and dis-
charging a gun becomes almost an involuntary
one: an act that comes as easily to a man as it
does to a woman to button her glove. The moral
soundness or unsoundness of the argument is, I
take it, quite another matter, and should not be
subject to sex bias.
The annual jamboree of the Ancient
Mariners in Sydney who have been driven off
Neptune’s unstable property by overseer Time
has been held again on Sydney harbor. A
pathetic feature of the gathering was the calling
of the list of those who, since the outing of 1910,
had cut their cables in the storm of Death and
were posted missing. This year it was a
heavier list than usual, and signals of dis-
tress were discernible amongst several of those
who-remained. Yet the old salts made a brave
show, and sang the long-ago chanties and passed
the tyottle fore and aft with the cheerfulness of a
homeward-bound crew. The sea is always
a hard master and frequently a treacherous
frtend; but it has the great virtue of imbuing
the spirit of its strength to those who live by the
sweat of its brow, and all the Sydney ancients
may stand the anchor watch for another 20 years.
If this paper had anything to do with their sailing
orders, those orders would be lost in transit, and
all hands would stand by until old Charon came
along at the Last Day with a tug.
Wonderful Values in Jewellery.
Never before have such exquisite ideas in
Jewellery and silverplate been seen in such enor-
mous varieties, and at such low prices, as those
shown at A. Saunders’s (Sydney’s leading
jeweller’s) new jewellery palace.
/■ r >
The wonderful displays of charming, exclusive
jewellery designs, the glittering mass of silver-
plate wedding gifts, are the wonder and admira-
tion of all—and the beautiful catalogue, sent post
free anywhere to our country friends, is full of
interest from cover to cover.
Now here’s a small idea,
(amongst the thousands),
of the wonderful values offered.
’Tis a charming little Solid
Gold Pendant in an exclusive,
artistic design, daintily set
with pure white pearls and
l/eautiful turquoise, and with
a delightful individuality
about it, all its own. Lastly,
its wonderful value will
appeal to all for the small
price of 15s. post free. Why
catalogue as well ? A. Saunders, Sydney’s Head-
ing' Jeweller, Silversmith, Optician, 805-817
Qeojrge Street, Sydney.*
Missing: Friends.
"DENNETT, ROBERT ERNEST,
J|J| native of Maryborough, Queensland. Tall
apd muscular ; last heard qf at Mount Chalmers
Copper Mine, near Rockhampton, Queensland,
about July, 1907.
Wanted by his brother WILLIE,
Railway Department,
Gym pie, Queensland.
SELL WOOD (John Ernest), born 27 th April,
18f>9, left England for Tasmania 1889.
MfOrkcd for Coridon (Storekeeper), Ringarooma ;
later for Pinner (Farmer), Jetsonville. Went
Melbourne, Australia, about 1890. Entitled
legacy.
| Inquire A. NEWTON MILLER,
Solicitor,
Cullompton, Devon, England.
Business Announcements.
POSTCARDS! POSTCARDS!
—Florals, Greetings, Views, Birthday, Silk, Fancy,
etc., thousand varieties ; 50 per cent, belovu cost to
dear. Sample Collections posted 10/-, 20/- 40/- (com-
plete). PICTORIAL POSTCARD CO., Launceston, Tas.
For Sale.
HEAP, Second-Hand 15BreakH.P.
TANGYE GAS ENGINE,
IN GOOD ORDER.
Apply Manager, “ BULLETIN ” OFFICE,
214 George Street, Sydney.
. Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager : J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
LAST SEVEN NIGHTS.
The Wonderful Drury Lane Drama, by Cecil Raleigh
and Henrv Hamilton,
THE WHIP.
Interpreted by A COMPLETE LONDON COMPANY
Specially Selected by Mr. J. C. Williamson.
\ ' PLAN AT PALING’S.
V ; = •
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Lessee & Manager .. J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING at 7.45,
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY
OUE, MISS GIBB S.
RESPLENDENT REVELRY, SENSATIONAL GOWN-
ING, GAY MUSIC and LOTS OF FUN.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Prices as usual.
DALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ Lessee and Manager: Hugh J. Ward.
THREE FAREWELL NIGHTS OF
HUGH J. WARD’S COMPANY
OF COMEDIANS,
including MISS GRACE PALOTTA, in
the Greatest Comedy Hit ever presented,
SEVEN DAYS.
SATURDAY, FEB. 25, THE SCARECROW.
Plan at Elvy’s. Day Sales at White Rose.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee: FRANK MUSGROVE.
CLARKE and MEYNELL PTY., LTD., SEASON.
THE ENGLISH COMIC OPERA CO.
LAST NIGHTS of MISS HOOK OF HOLLAND.
SATURDAY NEXT, FEBRUARY 25,
THE BELLE OE BRITTANY
Box Plan at ELVY’S.
THE. LYCEUM..
!_ EVERY EVENING AT 6
M%T!W2S J W»*:»AtS SIT'.J««H9WW.TS *!t2.36
SPENCER'S-IftATREKOPt <?
PICTURES
-» SOfZfirQfi, TO r?LE OT/lETI 5 »
P°!Cti> «... *<T PA.LI.NCd
|y|AX MAXWELL’S DRAMATIC CO.
SECOND BOOM WEEK.
THEATRE ROYAL, .ADELAIDE.
KING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE, March 4.
The glaciarium, Sydney.
Opposite Railway Station —Where all Id. trams stop.
BIGGER, BRIGHTER and BETTER THAN EVER
WEST’S PICT UEES,
“BEST OF ALL.”
Proprietors—Wests, Limited. Mgr. Dir.: T. J. West.
DE GROEN’S VICE REGAL ORCHESTRA.
6d. to 2/- Plan at Nicholson’s (Fee, 6d. extra).
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor & Manager— Mr. Harry Rickards
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS.
COOPER & LAIT. Musical Comedy Artists.
ALEXANDER PRINCE, King of Concertina Players.
VELANCHE’S FOOTBALL DOGS.
MISS ODEYNE SPARK, Dainty Comedienne.
MISS ETHEL LOFTUS, Popular Young Comedienne.
BABY WATSON, LORNA and TOOTS POUNDS,
CAMILLE CORNWALL, HARRY LINDEN,
And a GREAT COMPANY of Established Favorites.
PRICES—3s., 2s. and Is. Plan at Paling’s.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
FRANK HARWOOD, Descriptive Vocalist.
SIX AMERICAN DANCERS.
JULIAN ROSE, Monologue Entertainer.
KAVANAGH BOYS, Tennis Racquet Jugglers.
LUCIA COLLINS, Musical Sketch Artiste.
YETTA, Wire Walker.
Plan at Allan’s. tW PRICES—3s., 25.. Is.
Direction .. H. Faulknbr Smith.
lUI ELBOURNE TOWN HALL,
BVI WEDNESDAY, Ist MARCH.
MADAME MARY CONLY
FAREWELL CONCERT,
Assisted by the VICTORIAN FESTIVAL CHOIR.
Conductor: Frederic Beard, Esq.
Prices—4/-, 3/-, 2/-
Box Plan at Pianola Co., 252 Collins Street.
■yHEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
A GREAT SUCCESS.
CLARKE & MEYNELL’S ENTIRELY NEW
COMIC OPERA CO. in
THE GAY GRIS HITE.
MUSICAL FRIVOLITY IN TWO ACTS.
Plans at Allan’s. (ESf PRICES AS USUAL.
THE KING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager : William Andkrson.
EVERY EVENING.
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S NEW DRAMATIC
ORGANISATION
in D. Edmund’s New Australian Drama,
MY MATE.
Box Plan at Allan's. PRICES!—3s., 2s. and Is.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Direction of GEORGE MARLOW, Ltd.
SATURDAY NEXT, FEBRUARY 25,
GEORGE MARLOW’S DRAMATIC CO.
’ in
THE ANGEL OF HIS DREAMS.
Plan at Allan’s. Popular Prices—3/-, 2/-, 1/-
Early Doors, 6d. extra. Reserved Seats, 4/-
ROYAL SEE SHOW
11th to 19th April, 1911.
ENTRIES CLOSE:
Horses - March 15
Cattle - . - March 16
Sheep and Pi-s - - Marfch 16
Poultry = - ■ March 17
Dogs - -
Farm and Dairy Produce -
Women’s Industries
Miscellaneous -
March 20
March 21
March 22
March 23
PRIZE SCHEDULES and ENTRY FORMS
Po3ted on Application.
Ocean House,
Mooke Stkkkt, Sydney.
H. M, SOMER,
Secretary.
Get a Half-Guinea “PLDM.”
As practical hairdressers we know there’s no razor
will give better all-round satisfaction than a “ PLUM."
We put the edge on every Plum before it goes to the
buyer, and guarantee to keep it in order free for two
years. We use “ Plums ” in our own Saloon.
The “PLUM
Post Free
Anywhere
The C. &A. Mous-
tache Trainer
makes the mous-
tache a nice shape.
Worn at nifr h t.
2/6 post free.
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-
PLUM Razor, in Case, 10/6.
Pair in Case, 21/-
The Plum Razor Strop, 10/6 and 7/6
Other good kinds from 3/6 each.
Universal Shaving Soap, 6d.
Razoleo Lightning Sharpener, 6d.
We Grind and Set Razors, 1/- each.
All the above Post Free.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
Established
30 Years.
There is no rival to the Gillette Safety
Razor. It is the only razor whose
blades are so hard and sharp that
stropping and honing can be entirely
dispensed with.
British made and sold everywhere.
Write for " Hints on Shaving,” sent post free. Mention this paper.
GILLETTE SAFETY RAZOR, Ltd.. 17 Holborn Viaduct, London. England.
Gillette
NO STROPPING NO HONING
Safety
Razor
IJER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE
■ ■ Lessee and Manager: J. C. Williamson Ltd
EVERY EVENING.
Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON Presents Hewson’s Fimnv
Pantomime,
JACK AND THE BEANSTALK
For which a COMPANY OF COMEDIANS SINGFrs
DANCERS and PANTOMIMISTS has been oreaS
such as has NEVER BEEN APPROACHED ON thf
AUSTRALIAN STAGE. E
Plan at Allan’s. PRICES—S/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/.
U/EST’S PALACE, M ELBOU RnT
the best "WEST’S PICTURES, THE B „
OF ALL. LIMITED. OF all
Managing- Director: Mr. T. J. West
NIGHTLY AT 8.
Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays & All Holidays at 0 3n
The Greatest Pictorial Enterprise in the Wont n
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES
Any Moving Picture Worthy of Note always to be seen »
WEST’S PICTURES. Complete Change every week
Prices—6d. to 2s. Box Plan at Glen's.
The glaciarium, melTboTjrne
EVERY EVENING AT 8. *
J.&N.TAIT’S
PICTURES.
ALL THE LATEST PICTURES from Europe & Amenr*
A COMPLETE CHANGE WEEKLY. Pricea-2/ 1$
1/-, 6d. Matinees—Wednesday, Saturday, All Holiday*.’
J. & N TAIT’S
QPEN- AIR THEATRE, ST. KILDA.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.30.
THE POLLIES
NEW COSTUME COMEDY CO.
PRICES—I/6, 1/-, 6d.
WIRTHS OLYMPIA.
. EVERY EVENING AT B
Matinees -Wednesdays . Satubdays and Holidays at 2.35
CPENCER SIHEATRESCOPE G
J PICTURES
/» /IRE SUPERIOR TO /ILL OTHER/■
Popular Prices -»»- Plata as Usual „•.»
The MYSTIC ORACLE
or the Complete Fortune-Teller end
Dream Book. Disoloses the eeorete of
fortune-tellers and clairvoyants, and tells
> ou how to forecast your own destiny and
those of others. Explains the mysteries
of astrology, with a list of lucky and un-
lucky days, Palmistry or hand reading,
Fortune-telling by Cards, etcj also
charms, spells and incantations, the Inter-
pretation of Dreams and the Book of
Fate, Witch’s Chain, Magic Rose, Brido
Cake Charm, etc. Eight Pence, posted.
UNION C0.,299 Elizabeth Street,Melb.
3000
VALUABLE RECIPES, TRADE SECRETS,
Money Making Processes, Methods of Making
Marke able Goods, Priceless Wrinkles for
Every Trade. Here is the chance to establish yoursolf in a
profitable business, with a steadily increasing income. A.
single recipe or process properly used, like Pears’ Soap or
Beecham’s Pills, may be the foundation of your fortune This
Book of 368 closely printed pages contains hundreds of Trade
Secrets and Processes never before published : Patent Medi-
cines, Toilet Articles, Soaps, Inks, Cements, Paints, Polishes,
Solders. Confectionery, Drinks. &c. It is not a cookery book ;
it is a veritable Treasury of Thoroughly Tested Trade Know-
ledge. Price, H A.LF-A-CItOWN, posted free anywhere.
THE UNION CO. 299 Elizabeth Street, Melb.
Masterpieces of the World’s Best Literature
for 12/'
delivered
ywher<
8 vols., 2560 pages, size 6x4 inches.
Over 700 Selections from the Best
Work of 200 Greatest Authors.
.Every volume complete in itself and
every selected passage a complete
incident. A dip into any of these
volumes is a mental refresher,
acquaintance with their contents is
a literary education. Finely printed
and bound. The Book Rack given
in. The . Union Co.,
299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
MOVING PICTURES,
The Pocket Cinematographs caut«\
great fun. Powerful magnifying;
lenses enlarge the pretty pic-', '
tures until the observer views \
them with wonder. He turns <
the button ‘
startled by
jet of water
Two (with
carriage. r
‘to make the figure work,” and is\ x
the “ dissolving view,” receiving a V
on his face. Price 1/9 each, or (s
diflferent pictures) for 3/-, we pay N
The Union Co.,
299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
1/9
each,
Two
m
HOTEL
CECIL
(LONDON).
The largest and
most magnificent
Hotel in Europe.
O Intending visitors
to the CORONATION
should book their
rooms early.
Cable Address: “CECELIA, LONDON.”
e Uariffi Booklet gratis
at office of this paper.
WHY SUFFER FROM ASTHMA?
ASTHMATITE, the Great Asthma
Remedy, will immediately ease all the
distressing: symptoms, stop the choking, dis-
perse the phlegim, build up the system and
ensure sweet sleep. 2/-and 4-/«post free. Trial
packet posted for three penny stamps.
H. YOUNCMAN, Wilmott Street, Sydney.
The’Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries-
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
in use since 1506.
CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the book is free— or wnte
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, Lng.


ABBOTT
AUSTRALIAN FILTERS
m
m hm
R 3 \W.
-
Combined Water Bae' & Filter
have the highest
approval of the
Board of Health.
WATER BAG
FILTERS
For the Station and
Farm.
Small size, 15/- ea.
Largre ~ 20/- ea.
We manufacture
all kindsof Filters.
Write for Catalog.
We advise on all
matters of Filtra-
tion.
N. GUTHRIDGE,
Ltd.,
Manufactu ring"
Proprietors,
263 George St.,
SYDNEY ;
255 Collins St.,
MELBOURNE.
FOR
RHEUMATISM
Packets, 3d., 6d. and Is.
A HUGE SUCCESS!
Custard with 3ruit
The delicious Fruits ot New South
Wales,when stewed, form an exquisite
Dish with BIRD’S CUSTARD, served
either hot or cold. Most popular with
Adults and the Youthful alike.
The Elite
Eaude Cologne
r 4
n
m
rrrrrtrH
FIDELITAS
mTWK
\\
iKi
are
s 6
v®
/f
fcsw
fe
■L ; r
<• ~-•( -W *. a
sp
I
F.Wolff&Sohn
“Karlsruhe
Baden
Triumph of
Modem Science
Obtainable from all leading establishments
Is\ HEALTH or SICKNESS
a Take; regularly the Allenburys’Diet. It is most easy of assimilation, increasing vitality
I and diminishing fatigue. It restores the impaired digestion and gives tone to the whole
system. Prepared from pure, rich milk and whole wheat, combined in a partially
predigested form, the Allenburys’ Diet is a complete food, and is valuable alike for
the Invalid and Robust. Made in a Minute add boiling water only .
Allen & Hanburys
Ltd.
LONDON, ENGLAND, and
MARKET STREET, SYDNEY
Mu
The best horse is known by the races he wins;
similarly
The best tyre is known by the races it wins.
Here are a few victories gained on Michelin Tyres:—
1900.
Pnris-Toulouse (France)
Gordon-Bennett Cup (France)
1901.
Paris-Berlin
I\iris-B6'chaux ...
Gordon Ben nett Cup (France)
1902.
Paris Vienna
Circuit des Ardennes ...
Nice-La Turbie (France)
1903.
Circuit des Ardennes ...
“Autocar ” Cup (Dublin)
Ostend Meeting (Belgium)
1904.
Gordon-Bennett Cup (German
Circuit des Ardennes ...
Vanderbilt Cup (U.S.A.)
1905.
Gordon-Bennett Cup (France)
Circuit des Ardennes ...
Florio Cup (Italy)
1906.
Grand Prix (France)
Circuit des Ardennes
Milan Gold Cup (Italy) ...
1907.
Targa Florio (Italy)
Kaiser Cup (Germany)
Grand Prix (France)
1903.
Targa Florio (Ttaly)
Giand Prix (France)
Vanderbilt Cup (U.S.A.) ...
1909.
Targa Florio (Italy)
Catalonia ('up (Spain)
Vandetb It Cup (U.S.A.) ...
1910.
ist.
ist.
I st.
ist.
ist.
ist.
ist Four,
ist Five,
ist Four.
ist Five.
ist.
ist.
Targa Florio (Italy) ... ist Four.
Boulogne Circuit (France) ist Six.
American Grand Prix (U.S.A.) ist.
Mount Venloux Meeting (France) ist.
You may not be the owner of the winning horse
but
You can always own a set of
MICHELIN TYRES.
(2)
ALL THE LEADING AGENTS.
WARNING.—Don’t buy nichelin Tyres at less than current
prices. They may be of old manufacture. Purchase only
from our Agents.
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS
B
UNDER VICE-REGAL,
PATRONAGE.
The Misses Isaacs,
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair-
workers & Dermatologists,
161 KING STREET, SYDNEY, between Elizabeth & Castlereagh
Transformations from £4/4/- Tails from 7/6. Puffs from 25/- set. Fringes from 7/6.
Telephone 2138 Central. COMBINGS MADE UP.
Country orders receive prompt attention.
NEW SERIES—IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve, 6d. ; Packet of Ten, od.
IN POSITION
(invisibles
DEAFNESS
And HEAD NOISES Relieved by
Using WILSON’S COMMON-SENSE
EAR-DRUMS.
A scientific invention entirely different
in construction from alt other devices.
They have restored hearing when other
devices failed and medical skill gave-no
relief. Soft, comfortable and invisible;
no wire or string attachment.
Write for Pamphlet. Mention this paper,.
STAS NOVELTY CO , 29 Collin*
Street, Melbourne;


%r.
DOMOUUNS’ D.8.8.L. GUN,
12-gauge, toplever, 30in. real twist barrels,
choke, side clips, square Greener cross bolt,
highly engraved, pistol grip, walnut stock,
weight about 71b., patent fore-end. POST FREE,
£4 4s.
“WINCHESTER,” Single Shot, 1902 Model,
22 Cal. Rim Fire, peep or V sights, scroll
trigger guard, steel heel plate, yOm yj/J
weight 2flb. ItfSm
We can supply the 1902 Model Rifle, fitted with sporting ladder rear sight,
at 20s. Postage—ls. 6d., N.S.W.; 2s. Bd., Inter-State.
Our
Special
Snaps
Send for Our
ILLUSTRAI * T D
SPORTS
FISHING nd
TOBACCO
LISTS, FREE.
ISAAC HOLLIS 8 SONS’ “ THE RELIABLE ” D.8.8.L. Gun,
12-gauge, top lever, bar action, 30in. real twist or steel
barrels Greener cross bolt, both choke, rebounding locks,
snap fore end, chambered for 2fin. cartridges, weight from tl to 741 b. Guaranteed
for all Smokeless Powders, half-pistol «£6 12S. 6d,
BAYARD SEMI-AUTOMATIC RIFLE,
22 cal., 19in. Round Steel Barrel, length over all
384 in., weight 3§lb., handles short, long
or long rifle cartridges, *5/ "
Postage^—ls. 6d., N.S.W. ; 2s. Bd., Inter-State.
MICK SIMMONS, Ltd.
Head Depot, HAYMARKET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches—Hunter St., Newcastle ; 273 Darling St., Balmain f 197 Oxford
St., Sydney ; Church St., Parramatta ; 311 King St., Newtown. [4
Schute, Bell & Go.
limited.
Wool Stores: Central Wharf. Produce Stores:
Quay. Offices :44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Do not soil Fat Stock,
but only Wool, Sheepskins,
Hides, Tallow, etc., and
Marsupial & Rabbit Skins.
Each head of the Company a worker
in the interests of their constituents.
Proceeds protected Trust Account
Bank of N.S.W.
GIVEN AWAY
For Correct Answers.
To each and every person sending in the Corre et Solution of the following Puzzle we hereby undertake
and agree to send them the sum of
FIVE POUNDS
subject to the conditions hereunder :
Encouraged by the enormous demand for our PICTURE POST CARDS, we have devised this simple
Method of advertising, with the object of making our name more widely known, and to introduce our
1911 Series. We expect by this competition of brains to make such an impression on your mind that
you will be compelled to talk about us to your friends, and the extraordinary value of our FINE ART
PICTURE POST CARDS.
ALL WE ASK YOU TO OO IS THIS :
Fill in the missing letters in the following Puzzle :
OJR P**T C»R*S A*E T*E B**T V*L*E IN A.S,R t L t A.
Your answer must be posted and addressed to the Manager of the Fine Art Post Card Co., Hunter-
street, Sydney and received by him, and must agree with our solution, lodged in the BankofN.S.W.
PRIZES WILL BE SENT PROMPTLY.
With your solution to the above Puzzle (to which there is no entry fee), send us a Postal Note for '!/b,
for which we will send you Free a sample packet of thirty (30) Selected and Assorted Post Cards, and if
your solution is correot, we will also send you within a fortnight your prize of £5, and will ask you to
accept this reward for your services for showing our Post Car ds, and recommending them to your friends
WE GUARANTEE this Cempetition to be a straightforward Competition of brains and work. A copy
of the right solution we have lodged with ottr Bankers (Bank N.S.W.).
Due notice of the closing of this Competition will appear in this paper, but if before the date of the
closing of the Competition more than 103 correot answers have been received, One Hundred Cash Prizes
of £j each will be awarded te those sending correct answers in the order in which their answers shall
have been read by the Manager of the FINE ART POST CARD CO.
Should your solution reach U 3 before the closing date, and be correot according to our conditions, and
not be within the first 100, we will send you FREE A SOLID SILVER WATCH AND CHAIN (Lady's or
Gentleman’s). No person will be entitled to more than one prize.
N.B.—Your solution is to be accompanied by attached Coupon which forms part of this competition,
and addressed to THE MANAGER OF
FINE ART POST CARD CO
HUNTER STREET,
SYDNEY.
My Solution to your Puzzle is as follows:
And I AGREE TO ABIDE BY THE DECISION OF THE MANAGER OF THE FINE ART POST
CARD CO., which I accept as final and legally binding.
Signed
Address
Date
What You Get
TRY I? 1 f' ¥ 17
THE LAuLL
Built hv men who know the
essentials of GOOD WORK.
The PERFECT PRODUCT of
practical experience.
Not What You Pay —
COUNTS.
Brand
Footwear
Made from Australian Materials by Australians for Australians.
They meet the demand for STRICTLY RELIABLE and UP-TO-DATE FOOTWEAR.
They Will Satisfy YOU !
Obtainable from Leading MERCHANTS everywhere.
Sole Manufacturers and Proprietors —
The Davey Hailiday Company, Limited
Wholesale Only. BRISBANE.
For your BOOTS and SHOES.
HUM
Hsrnivoivut
M 3HX
MSflUfl HUM JUIlMWlO'nvwC X\U*
"nw 9NiHsnm
if*
V
Meltonian
| PASTE.
in BLACK and BROWN
■ The best and also the cheapest
■ PASTE POLISH on the market
■ for cleaning, polishing, and
■ preserving all kinds of Leather
H Boots, Shoes, Harness, &c.
Iso LD EVERYWHERE.
Made by the Manufacturers of the Celebrated
“ MELTONIAN ” BOOT POLISHES.
E. BROWN S SON ( B,ack^ n Sfa d ctu°re t r S Po,,Bh) LTD - LONDON and PARIS.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1908 edition, 2s 6d posted. Mbrrib
England, 6d. How to Gut Rich, Is posted. Da. Lamar-
tine's Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston's Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the.
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Quadrille Call Book,
2s. Adventures of a Flirt, Is. 3d. Parlor Tricks
and Games, Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
ls2d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc.. Is 2d post.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book ok Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Fiagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, Us. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ss. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain for the
British 6d. How to Read Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d The "Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is Od.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
KMIiUACING
THE POPULAR "PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Du. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Ohromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, athou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
prBOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH.-*!
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gam blurs’ Skcrkts and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. ParlOr Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made EAsy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d.
Complete Hook keeping, 2s. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougall Topped the Score, &
Other Verses, Is 3d. The Gay Count, Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Hkptamf.ron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The VVaybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter wJhat Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. Established 25 Year s .
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT.
«.
Write for my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappiio, genuine,
is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions of the Bing,
Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. 6d. Secret
History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. 'Vest Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post.
Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to JReaii Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s (id posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.


Dizziness, Retching, Shooting Pains and Shortness of Breath.
Many Treatments Useless. A Splendid Cure by BILE BEANS.
a EDILE BEANS are a grand medicine for
*—' liver trouble,” says Mrs. E. Moore,
of 76 Hindmarsh Square, Adelaide.
" My liver was a source of great worry
to me for a long time. I suffered
frightfully from biliousness and sick
headaches. Indigestion also tortured
me cruelly. I was awfully dizzy, and
the bilious headaches used to make me
sick with the constant throbbing.
”1 was so stricken with the indiges-
tion that household duties were an
impossibility. The pains in the chest
were terrible, ans rendered breathing a
great difficulty. The bilious attacks were
also very trying. I used to be simply fit for
nothing, and attacks of dry-retching would
strain me internally very severely. The head-
aches that would result from this state of things
were almost unbearable.
"All the remedies I tried failed to give me
relief. I could derive no benefit from any of
them. At last I decided to give Bile Beans a
trial, and the very first dose worked such
Mrs. Moore , cured
by Bile Beans.
wonders in me that I determined to continue with this splendid medicine. The
result exceeded my most sanguine expectations, for all the terrible ‘sick liver’
symptoms left me completely. Now my liver does not trouble me at all, and I
enjoy good health. I eat and sleep well, and in many ways have derived great
benefit from Bile Beans. I strongly recommend this grand family medicine to all
suffering from liver trouble, indigestion or biliousness.”
THE STANDARD FAMILY MEDICINE.
He
eans
f/. #. FOR
kliousness
BILE BEANS are a
proved remedy for
headache, constipa-
tion, piles, liver
trouble, bad breath,
indigestion, bilious-
ness, sickness, pains
in the side, lassi-
tude, “ that tired
feeling,” loss of
energy, ansemia and
female ailments.
Sold by all stores
and chemists at 1/1£
and 2/9 per box. A
dose or two of Bile
Beans in time may
save pounds in
doctors' bills.
Beauty’s Favourite.
The article which excels all others
in improving; the beauty of the sKin
is naturally and deservedly beauty’s
favourite. This has been tbe
acknowledged and Honoured
position Held by Pears’ Soap for
nearly 120 years. It won, and Has
maintained tHat position by virtue
of its complete purity, and by tHe
possession of those special emollient
properties which soften, refine,
and impart natural colour to the
skin. No other soap possesses
these qualities in such a pre-
eminent degree as
PEARS
Matchless for the Complexion.
Ballad of a Bachelor.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
M ADIE, Elo, Isabel, Dorothy, Sue,
Ethel, Kate, Margaret, Cecily, Bess,
Cleo, Tot, Eleanor, Sylvia, Prue,
Syb, Henrietta, Bet, Eulalie, Jess,
Fanny, Felicity, Harriet, Tess,
Jennv, Louise, Theodesia, Lai,
Julia, Ernestine Phew! I confess
There is a crowd. Don’t know which. But i
shall.
Sadie’s delicious I own, and it’s true
Dorothy’s sweet; but, you know, to possess
Ethel would make a chap proud, and to woo
Kate is worth while all the time. (That grey
dress
Sings to one’s heart so !) Then, really—oh, yes,
Dear little Cleo’s no end of a pal.
Syb’s ruddy hair, though—she gave me a tress...
There is a crowd. Don’t know which. But I
shall.
After all, Bet is a darling, true blue ;
Fanny, though, ’s such a sweet kid to caress—
Seems to appeal to a chap through and through ;
Lai has the style, though—a very princess.
But Ernestine, as a social success.
Beats all the bunch. . . . They’re a jangling cabal,
These my desires. .. . How they jostle and
press ! . . .
There is a crowd. Don’t know which. But I
shall.
Venus, dear rogue, shall I curse you, or bless?
(Does she pretend I’ve forgotten you, Sal ?)
Lady, I see that the truth you can guess.
There is a crowd. Don’t know which ? But/
shall !
MAORILAND.
FRANK MORTON.
The Return of the Boarder.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
door bell rang violently for the
I second time, and the dusty little woman
unfastened her apron and. hastening up the
hall, undid the latch,
“Good evening,” boomed a sonorous voice as
the door swung open ; “I called about the room
advertised ”
“My goodness 1 If it isn’t Mr. Bodger !”
The fat man on the mat recoiled and clutched
spasmodically at his flowing beard. “ Mrs. Fad-
stitch !” he boomed—booming was his chief char-
acteristic ; “ I did not expect to find you ! I
understood you to say the last time I saw you that
you were never going to take in lodgers again.”
The landlady sniffed in a dismal way, and
started to get hysterical—getting suddenly hys-
terical was her chief characteristic. “ And what
if I did, Mr. Bodger ? What if I did ? ”
“Nothing, ma’am, I merely mentioned”
“Why,” shrilly demanded the landlady, “why
should I be insulted by having it thrown in my
face?”
“One moment, ma’am,” pleaded Bodger, who
knew her of old. “ I assure you that I had not the
slightest intention of insulting you—l would not
be such a blackguard. I merely expressed my
surprise at finding that you were the person
who had apartments to let. Far be it from
me to refer to past misunderstandings 1 I would
scorn”
“I’m just a lonely widow now, Mr. Bodger,”
intoned the aggrieved landlady, cutting his ex-
planation short. “Me son went and spent all the
money on races and then went back to sea, and
now I’m all alone again, and if anyone wants to
insult me in my own house, well, then, they do
insult me, and I have to put up with it, that’s
all ! ”
“I regret to hear it, ma’am,” boomed Bodger,
referring to the loss of the money.
“ You’re not the first that’s said that, Mr.
Bodger. Yet not a day goes past that I’m not
insulted by someone! If it isn’t someone about
the rooms, it’s one of the trades-people, or
a person who wants to practise step-dancing and
bring down the ceiling on me, or someone who
wants another candle to play cards by, and bring
on quarrels and fighting, and give my house a bad
name.”
Bodger started violently. “Does that remark
about card-playing and fighting refer to me,
ma’am?” he demanded. “I recollect that I
wanted to flog a scoundrel once in your house.
But he was a ruffian, ma’am ; he struck' me and
knocked me down.”
“ I was never so insulted in my life,” chanted
the landlady. “To want to thrash a person
before my very eyes ! And in my own house, too! ”
“I did not mean to insult you, Mrs. Fadstitch !
Such a thought never entered my head !”
“Well, Mr. Bodgers, I’m sure I don’t know
what else you meant by it! You know very well,
Mr. Bodgers—or you ought to—that when
a house gets a name as a place where card-playing
and fighting is going on from morning till night,
and people are being insulted right and left,
people avoid it, Mr. Bodger, and say all sorts of
things about the person who keeps it.”
“ You will pardon me for saying it, ma’am ”
“ Nobody ever asks my pardon, Mr. Bodger,
for what they say or do. They just say what
they like, and do what they like, and insult me
as they please ; and I have to put up with it and
be thankful that things aren’t a great deal worse
than they are.”
“I merely wished to say, ma’am”
“Well, you may say what you please, Mr.
Bodger, and if you wish to contrydiek me, then
you must do so, because I am contrydickted right
and left, and nobody ever asks my pardon for so
doing, since I have come down in the world and
put myself in a position where I may be contry-
dickted and insulted by anyone.”
“You are unduly sensitive, ma’am,” boomed
the desperate Bodger; “you take things too
much to heart.”
“ I know I do, Mr. Bodger ! ”
“Then again, Mrs. Fadstitch, you are prone to
exaggerate the”
“ What do you mean by that, Mr. Bodger ? Do
you mean to”
“No, ma’am, no! What I mean is that you
over-estimate the importance of such trifles as the
flogging of a ruffianly actor.”
“ What flogging do you refer to, Mr. Bodger?
Did you ever flog anyone in my house ? ”
“No, ma’am, I never actually flogged anyone ;
but I would have done so had I not been pre-
vented. My blood was up, ma’am, and when my
blood is up I stop at nothing !”
“ Well do I know it, Mr. Bodger ! ”
“When a scoundrel dares to insult me I flog
him ! ”
“And insult me in my own house!” triumph-
antly added the comfortless landlady. “I know
your violent temper, Mr. Bodger—l have cause
to know it! Mr. Montague gave me notice the
morning after you threatened him ; and next week
me son lost ev’ry penny, and there was I without a
lodger to me name when I might have had at least
one, but for your temper and your threats and
your floggings, Mr. Bodger.”
Bodger, still on the mat, took a deep breath.
“ Well, ma’am, if you have a suitable room, per-
haps we may come to terms again. May I come
in ? iy
“Why, certainly, Mr. Bodger,” faltered the
landlady, suddenly getting in a flutter. Then
Bodger strode inside, to the intense disappoint-
ment of the woman next door, who also had rooms
to let, and hated Mrs. Fadstiteh, and had listened
attentively to the whole colloquy from the start.
The bang of the door smote her like a hit on the
ear.
As soon as Bodger had comfortably installed
himself in the largest chair in the murky dining-
room, and had noted the poverty-stricken appear-
ance of the apartment, he commenced to spread
himself.
“ Well, Mrs. Fadstiteh, I must first inform you
that my letters Home have at last put my finances
on a sounder footing. My remittances are now
larger—considerably larger than they were when
I boarded with you at Dormant-street.”
“I’m sure I’m very glad to hear it, Mr.
Bodger,” sniffed the landlady, with an air of
resignation.
“Consequently, I am now enabled to live more
comfortably, ma’am. I am enabled to pick and
choose a little where I shall live and who I shall
associate with. I am not now compelled to
shelter with actors and such-like blackguards.
You follow me, ma’am?”
“There’s never been another actor near the
place since you threatened Mr. Montague, Mr.
Bodger.”
“I’m glad to hear it,” boomed the ex-lodger,
heartily.
“ But he always paid his board reg’lar, Mr.
Bodger; and I’ll say this for him—he never offered
to insult me in any way, neither by fighting nor
threatening, nor by asking for candles he wasn’t
entitled to ! ”
Bodger flushed angrily. “He dared not, Mrs.
Fadstiteh. The scoundrel knew that there was
at least one gentleman in the house who would flog
him within an inch of his miserable life if he didn’t
behave himself.”
The luxuriously unhappy landlady heaved an
immense sigh and changed the subject. “ Would
you care to see the rooms, Mr. Bodger?”
“ Thank you, ma’am,” boomed the controller of
blackguards, struggling to his feet and picking up
his battered straw hat and knobby walking-stick
from the chair where he had deposited them on
entering the room.
The landlady led the way upstairs, and Bodger,
puffing importantly, followed her, asking in-
numerable questions and glaring about him like
a suspicious bull.
“This is me best front room,” remarked his
guide, leading the way into a dusty, balcony
apartment which possessed the advantage of a V-
shaped harbor view. (An inverted triangle of
blue water was faintly discernible above the roof
of the building opposite.) “ Twenty-two and six-
pence is what I’m asking for this, Mr. Bodger.”
Bodger stroked his beard and glared doubtfully
at the V-shaped view.
“That seems reasonable enough, Mrs. Fad-
stitch —reasonable enough.”
Mrs. Fadstiteh sighed and folded her arms with
a take-it-or-leave-it-I’ve-done-my-best air.
Bodger glared round him again. “ Have you
any other people in the house?” he inquired
pointedly.
“ Not a blessed soul,” was the cheerless reply.
Bodger cleared his throat. “I presume, Mrs.
Fadstiteh, that you will be strict with regard to
references and that sort of thing if anyone should
apply to you for rooms ? ”
“ I don’t think any more actors will come here
Mr. Bodger, if that’s what you mean. I know for
certain that Mr. Montague gave the house a bad
name everywhere amongst them theatricals, so
I’m not likely to be troubled with any actors or
actresses—although I can’t see for the life of me
why they should be called blackguards and
scoundrels and have their lives threatened at every
turn, for their moneiy’s as good as anyone else’s,
and they keeps themselves quiet and re-spectable
enough, Lord knows, and don’t go about insulting
people. Th’ lady next door has some in her house,
and they seem to be perfec’ladies and gentlemen.”
“ Well, ma’am, so long as they don’t try to push
themselves in here amongst their betters I will
agree to stay and help you to keep the place like a
gentleman’s home.”
“ I’m sure I’m very glad to hear it, Mr. Bod-
ger,” muttered the landlady. “Goodness! There’s
a ring at th’ door, and th’ girl’s gone out. You’ll
excuse me, Mr. Bodger, won’t you ? ”
“Certainly, ma’am, certainly,” replied the im-
mense and magnanimous Bodger, seating himself
in a chintz-covered wicker chair.
The dusty little landlady half-shut the door
after her, and scuttled away downstairs to answer
the drawbridge.
Bodger, humming a tune to himself, heard the
door open and a faint exclamation of delight or
dismay from his hostess. A masculine voice—
which somehow seemed familiar—spoke a few
words of greeting in a loud, boisterous way, then
suddenly dropped to an almost furtive pitch as if
the owner of it had been warned or hushed—or
both. There was a murmur of subdued talk, then
footsteps and the shutting of a door.
Bodger frowned. “I wonder who the devil
she’s got down there ?” he muttered. “ Anyhow,
lie can’t have this room, whoever he is.” He
looked round the dusty apartment with a glare of
satisfaction, and stroked his beard, and hummed
his tune contentedly enough till five minutes had
dragged by. Then it struck him that he was
being neglected for the newcomer. He imme-
diately pulled out his old silver watch (it hadn’t
gone for 15 years), frowned at it, put it
back, cleared his throat violently, and started
to work himself up into a passion. Why
should he be kept waiting on a lodging-house-
keeper’s convenience? Did the infernal woman
think he had nothing else to do but sit and twiddle
his thumbs while she whispered in a back parlor?
He got up from his chair and started to tramp
about, to bang with his heavy stick on the floor,
and to raise and lower the squeaky window.
The disturbance had the desired effect. Down
below the distant door opened and shut,
hurried footsteps ascended the stairs, and Mrs.
Fadstiteh, looking very flushed and nervous, came
scuttling back. “ I didn’t mean to keep you so
long, Mr. Bodger,” she panted. “A person
came to look at the rooms, and I took her into the
parlor, and she kept me talking.”
Bodger opened his mouth to say something, but
changed his mind and shut it again. The woman
was lying to him? What was her guilty secret?
“ I suppose now, Mr. Bodger, that you want to
be off?”
Bodger gave one keen glance at her flushed face
and shut his teeth on the impressive, pompous lie
he had ready about an important engagement in
the city. Instead, he stroked his beard in a
thoughtful, leisurely fashion and boomed easily,
“ Oh, no ! Not at all! I’m in no hurry, ma’am.”
If the woman thought she could get him out of
the way like that, she was very much mistaken !
Mrs. Fadstiteh made one or two frantic dabs at
her back hair and tried a last shot. “ Well, Mr.
(Continued on next page.)


wW
« ft
Every Picture Tells a Story'
r:!-V
£7
i.
dild
!
1S“«»
u-;p
If the Pain Is There-
in the Small of the Back
Suspect Your Kidneys”
BURDENS LIFTED FROM BAD BACKS
Weary is the back that bears the burden of kidney ills. There’s no rest or peace for the man or woman who has a bad
back. The distress begins in early morning. You feel lame and not refreshed. It’s hard to get out of bed. It hurts to
stoop to tie your shoes. All day the ache keeps up. Any sudden movement sends sharp twinges through the back. It
is torture to stoop and straighten. At night the sufferer retires to toss and twist and groan. Backache is kidney ache—
a throbbing dull aching in the kidneys. Plasters or liniments won’t do. You must get at the cause, inside.
Mrs. S. O’Rourke, 153 Devonshire Street. Surry Hills, Sydney, says:—
“ For nine years 1 have been troubled with the kidneys. In that time
I used all sorts of remedies, but thefirst to do me good was Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pills ; these were Al. I used to get pains in the back and
across the shoulders, hot flushes of blood to my head, burning pain
under the eyes. I was frightfully nervous, and had palpitation of the
heart. Regarding the pain in my back, after stooping I would have to
ease myself up. Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills started to relieve me
when I had taken a few doses. After I had taken them for a week, I
felt so well that I forgot to take them. Anybody who needs a kidney
medicine should get Doan’s Pills.
Mrs. O’ Rourke confirms the above seven years later : —“ lam still
free of every distressing symptom mentioned above, and have been ever
since Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cured me, seven years ago.”
Sydney Proof
for
Sydney People.
Mr. W. B. Lewis, 10 Laura Street, Newtown, Sydney, states: —
“There is no medicine more .satisfactory or really beneficial that I know
of than Doan’s Backache Kidney Bills. Much sickness and broken time
would be avoided, especially by those who, like myself, are occupied at
out door work, if these pills were better known. One of the many
advantages about Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills is that they may be
taken with perfect safety at any time. I suffered from the kidneys for
some time, and was recommended to try them, and they gave me great
relief. My friends, to whom I have spoken of their excellent effect,
speak in similar terms of them. I have no hesitation in saying that
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are the most comforting and most certain
to give relief of any kidney medicine I have ever tried.”
Seven years later, Mrs. Lewis says“My husband has not suffered with
his kidneys since Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cured him seven years ago.”
w DOANS
Backache
Kidney
At all Chemists and
Storekeepers, 2/9
per bottle; or from
Fo s ter- McClellan
Co-, 76 Pitt Street.
Sydney.
Bodger, if there’s nothing else to talk over, I
won t take up any more of your time because I
know you’re always so busy. When will you be
here, Mr. Bodger ? ”
.. i' t^ ma ani >” shouted Bodger, graciously,
‘ 'l think you had better go and interview the
Lady downstairs first. There are one or two little
things I want to ask you about, and, as I’m not
in any hurry, I think I’ll wait if you don’t mind.”
He seated himself in the wicker chair, and put his
hat and stick on the floor as a guarantee that he
meant to stay some time.
The wretched landlady glanced at him in a
desperate way as if she contemplated making an
endeavor to remove him by main force. Then she
wilted into her accustomed state of hopelessnes,
and, remarking in a perfectly futile manner, ‘‘Oh,
very well, Mr. Bodger, if it’s not putting you to
any inconvenience,” turned and scuttled away
downstairs again.
Bodger, left alone for the second time, amused
himself for a while wondering who it was she had
in the back parlor, and why she wanted to lie
about it and to hurry him out of the way. “I
can t stand lying and deceit,” he assured himself.
“I. W BI not have liars about me ! The woman is
trying to throw dust in my eyes and diddle me !
I won't be diddled ! I’ll show her plainly that
I m not to be humbugged about! ” By a species
of self-hypnotism, Bodger had long ago persuaded
himself into the belief that he was the.bluff,
honest type of stage Englishman who roars the
truth at everyone without fear or favor, and
throws liars and blackguards into the horse-pond.
After a while, the stillness of the house and the
dulness of his own situation began to oppress him
again. He looked round the room and observed
a bell-handle by the bedside. “ I'll wake the old
liar up,” he growled. “ I’ll show that I’m not
Somg to stand any humbugging.” Struggling out
of his chair, he jagged the old-fashioned alarm
savagely two or three times. The hidden wires
squeaked and rattled in the wall, and afar off a
bell jangled sleepily, and was still.
Once more the downstairs door opened and
shut, and once more the weary landlady climbed
to the upper plateau of the house where Bodger
waited fuming.
As soon as she arrived, breathless and indig-
nant, Bodger opened fire. Fixing her with a
baleful stare, he remarked fiercely: ‘‘Mrs. Fad-
stitch, ma’am, you know—or you should know by
this time—that I aui not a man to be humbugged
or tolerate any beating about the bush. I always
say what I mean, and I like everyone else to say
what they mean ; and if they don't say what they
mean, then I want to know the reason why. Ho
you follow me, ma’am ? ”
‘ Were you ever humbugged or beaten about
the bush in my house, sir?’’ demanded the erst-
while humble landlady in warlike tones.
Bodger, who had expected her to be abject and
spiritless as became her lodgerless condition,
gasped in dismay and started to hedge. “ Well,
ma’am, I won’t go so far as to say that. What I
meant was”
“ How far will you go then, Mr. Bodger ? ” per-
sisted the amazing woman, with the severity of
one whose house is positively crammed with docile
lodgers from one year’s end to the other.
lor one wild moment Bodger thought he had
struck the solution of her wonderful change from
cringing humility and hysterical hopelessness to
brassy self-confidence and ferocity. “It’s drink,”
he muttered. “I'll wager she’s got a bottle in
the back parlor.” Then lie met her flashing
glance and quailed. “No,” he corrected, “it’s
drugs—cocaine, or strychnine, or something that
bucks her up. I won’t stand that sort of thing.”
“ Well, sir,” trumpeted the landlady. “You
were speaking of humbugging just now. Who or
what is humbugging you, pray ?”
He made a big effort and pulled himself to-
gether. “I merely remarked, ma’am, that I liked
plain speaking! ”
“And so do I, Mr. Bodger! The plainer you
speak the better I like it. Did you wish to speak
plainly to me, sir? Or did you ring the bell
merely to bring me upstairs and insult me in my
own house by beating about the bush ? ”
Bodger was deliberating whether to tell the
truth or to lie when the front door bell saved him.
“ Never mind me, ma’am,” he hurriedly assured
her. “ Never mind me, I can wait! You answer
the door! ”
The landlady, sniffing triumphantly, withdrew ;
and Bodger dropped into his chair like an ex-
hausted pugilist after a hard round, and mopped
his brow.
Again he heard the front door open and hushed
voices, then retreating footsteps and the closing
of the back parlor-door. ' Silence supervened.
For at least a quarter of an hour he sat meekly
in his chair, turning the thing over and over in
his mind and seeking the reason for Mrs. Fad-
stitch’s astounding change of attitude. Finally,
with a slap of his knee, he rejected the drink
theory and the drug theory, and ejaculated :
“ Boarders ! New boarders, by the Lord Harry !
Filthy blackguards of actors, no doubt! That’s
what’s made her get her back up all of a sudden !
Thinks she’ll pitch Jack- Bodger out neck and crop
and fill her house with d—-d barnstormers who’ll
diddle her right and left, the silly old fool ! ” He
sat fretting and fuming for a while longer, but
the strain at last became unbearable. He got up,
and, picking his hat and stick from the floor, tip-
toed to the door. Not a sound could he hear.
With infinite caution he crept as far as the head
of the stairs. A faint, indistinguishable murmur
of talk caressed his ear like the sound of distant
surf by night. It lured him down three steps.
Then it lured him down six. He hung breath-
lessly over the banisters half-way down, with
his mouth wide open, his head turned side-
ways, and his right hand curved behind his ear—
an absurdly undignified eavesdropper. Still, he
could not clearly distinguish what they were say-
ing. Taking his courage in both hands, he
creaked fearfully right down to the hall and ap-
proached the closed door behind which were the
interlopers. He heard his own name mentioned,
followed by a laugh, and a sudden fury to see who
it was dared gossip about him consumed utterly
his fear and discretion. Falling softly on his
knees, he crawled to the door and applied his
glaring optic to the keyhole. It was full of cob-
webs and dust. Cursing under his breath, he
substituted his ear for his eye and immediately
started to vibrate with rage.
Mrs. Fadstitch was recounting to several people,
amidst a hail of hilarious remarks, how she had
turned the tables on him—Bodger—and left him
crushed and humbled in the room upstairs. “And
I said to the insulting old fool: ’So do I, Mr.
Bodger ! The plainer you speak the better I like
it.’ Then I said : ‘ Did you want to speak plainly
to me, Mr. Bodger, or did you ring the bell just
to bring me upstairs and insult me in my own
house by beating about the bush? You ought to
be ashamed of yourself,’ I said, and left him with-
out another word.”
“ You old liar ! ” hissed Bodger on his knees in
the gloomy hall.
A drawling masculine voice next was heard.
“I suppose, Mrs. Fadstitch’, that the old bounder
drinks and all that sort of thing ? ”
Bodger’s beard wagged silently.
“Oh no, Mr. Sussex. He’s much too mean to
spend his money on drink —not that he’s got much.
He lives on the charity of his rich relations in
England, you know.”
“ What a bally old waster he must be !”
Bodger almost swooned with suppressed fury.
Nothing but a wholesale massacre would have
satisfied his thirst for vengeance at this point.
And yet it was only ordinary back-parlor gossip.
The discussion had progressed another stage by
the time he had sufficiently regained control of
himself to once more apply his ear to the sluice
gate of enlightenment.
Sussex was speaking. “By the way, you had
some sort of nasty experience with the old rotter,
didn’t you, Montague?”
(“ Montague, by the Lord Harry ! ”)
“ Yes, dear boy. He wanted to fight me one
night when he was half-drunk. I simply went to
my room and shut the door, leaving the old waster
raving like a madman on the stairs. That was
the night he insulted everyone and cleared out.”
“You filthy blackguard!” hissed the listener
in the hall. “You filthy, barnstorming black-
guard ! ”
“I say, you know, we simply can’t stand
a man of that class in the house if we want to live
comfortably. Surely we can get the old brute
out somehow? You don’t want him, Mrs. Fad-
stitch, do you ?”
"Me!” shrilled the landlady, contemptuously.
“ Why, I wouldn’t have let the insulting old bully
come inside the door only I was so hard-pushed
and bothered I didn’t know which way to turn,
and was glad to see anything.”
“Listen to that d—d old hag ! Listen to
her,” breathed the bursting Bodger ; and, so that
he would not miss a drop of the gall and worm-
wood, he glued his vast ear closer to the keyhole.
“You can get him to clear out without making
a nuisance of himself, I suppose?”
“He’s upstairs now, Mr. Sussex, trembling in
his boots; and if I tell him he can’t have the room
he will have to march out whether he likes it or
not! ”
“March out I will, ma’am! Thank God, I
need not hobnob with cursed actors any more ! ”
“ Then I will take his room, Mrs. Fadstitch.”
“You’re very welcome, I’m sure, Mr. Sussex.”
“That’s all I want to know,” hissed Bodger,
shaking his fist at the door, “ But I’ll see myself
hanged before I let you give me notice, you lying
old harridan ! I’ll get upstairs quietly now, ring
that bell, and, when you come cantering up, I’ll
tel) you to take yourself and your actors to ”
The dining-room door flung open without the
slightest warning, and that eminent actor Howard
Surrey Sussex recoiled from the spectacle of an
enraged patriarchal person on his knees in the
pitch-dark passage, with one hand clenched in the
air.
“ Good Heavens ! What’s this ? ” stuttered the
great Sussex.
Bodger, inarticulate with rage, wagged his
abundant whiskers at him.
“ What are you doing, fellow?” thundered the
Star in tragic tones.
Bodger shook a sacrilegious fist at the matinee
idol. “ I'm—l’m looking for a shilling, d — n
you /” he screamed, lying at random and disas-
trously. It would have been almost impossible to
have found a glowworm in that passage of gloom.
“Who is this old man?” demanded the star
wildly. “ What is he? He’s been listening at
the keyhole ! ”
Bodger, still on his knees, bellowed : “I wasn’t
listening ! I was looking for a shilling, and I’ll
flog the life out of you if you dare to contra-
dict me ! ”
“I never trusted him,” wailed the landlady
above the confusion.
“ You’re a gang of filthy actors,” roared Bodger.
“D’ye think any Judge in the land would take
your word against mine ! Bah !! ”
“ The man is mad ! ” proclaimed the swooning
star. “He is mad or drunk ! I will not be in-
sulted by the old beast! Here! Go for the
police, someone, and get him taken away ! ”
The hysterical landlady contributed another
observation to the turmoil. “To think that I let
me front room to him ! And then to be insulted
in my own house by listening ! Oh-h-h ! ”
“ I tell you I ivasrit listening, you old fool ! ”
“ Dropped a shilling ! ” yelled Montagu, con-
temptuously, in the background. “ A likelyjstory
that!”
‘ ‘ Silence, you villain ! ”
Sussex pointed a white and be-ringed finger at the
convicted eavesdropper. “ The passage is pitch-
dark, you old scoundrel ! No man could find a
shilling there without a light! You are lying ! ”
“He never had a shilling to drop,” shouted
Montague.
A fearfully stout actor who had thus far taken
no part in the proceedings save to look immensely
shocked, bustled forward puffing importantly.
“Of course, he didn’t drop a shilling!” Hi-
pointed a fat finger at Bodger, and waved him
towards the door as one turns away a dirty, small
boy from a back gate. “ Hyah you ! Out you
go! Look sharp!’’
Bodger struggled to his feet, and gibbered mur-
derously at him amidst his whiskers.
The immensely fat actor —he weighed 18st. —
waddled forward, and his balloon vest bumpi-'i
Bodger 2ft. toward the door. “Clear out now !
Don’t make a fuss, or it’ll be the worse for you ! ”
His irresistible stomach again bounced Bodger so
that his battered straw hat fell over his mouth
smothering his language. “ That’ll do you. Come
on now ! ’’
The vest came on again, and Bodger tottered
another step or two on his way, spluttering
terribly, but carefully refraining from any-
thing that resembled violence. At the door there
was a certain amount of desperate shoving, and a
parting cry of “Hands off,' you d—d mounte-
bank!” But the mighty vest again triumphed,
and Bodger was bounced' right out on to the ver-
andah and down the steps. The fattest actor on
earth followed him relentlessly into the glar-
ing limelight of high noon, and in front of several
passers-by waved him imperiously down the
street. “Look sharp, my man! Clear out
quickly, and keep a civil tongue in your head or
I’ll give you in charge ! ’’ he cried in his ridiculous
treble.
Bodger. the disgraced, stamped on the pave-
ment. “You—you scoundrel!” he foamed.
“ You infernal ”
“ Hyah, huah ! that’ll do you ! Remember you
are talking to a gentleman now —not to one of
your own beastly associates ! Clear out now and
don’t dare to come hyah again. Look sharp
now ! ” The conquering vest advanced again and
the utterly demoralised Bodger retreated back-
wards, waving his stick in the air and emitting
sounds that were hardly' human.
The fat actor watched him down the street;
and when he turned at the corner and shook his
stick, waved him on again with a regally com-
manding gesture of his fat, white hand.
The degradation of Bodger was complete.
KODAK.


TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Club Rum.
Dog Head Stout. King’s Liqueur Whisky.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
OTHER MODELS
'
From 7/6 to 40/•
The Accordeon with
The Mellow Tone
Is just perfection for Song Accompaniments, Dance Music, and
Picnics. The Organ-like Tone of these Instruments is attained
by tbs use of Bell Metal Reeds, which are hand-fitted and tuned
THREE POPULAR MODELS.
THE ORGAN TONED MELBA
8 Sets Bell Metal Reeds, Pride 22/6, Post Free.
FOR A FREE CATALOGUE WRITE TO
■°o y Nvnv
276 Collins St
AnH ola/t at RPN
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original and Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
80LD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
-1/li, 2/9 & 4/6
Checks and
arrests Fever,
Croup, Ague.
The Best
Remedy
known for
COUCHS, COLDB, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS.
Acts like a charm in
DIARRHOEA, and is the only
epeolflc in CHOLERA and DYSENTERY .
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations , Bilious Affections.
MAGNESIA
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
ENO S ‘FRUIT SALT’
A HOUSEHOLD REMEDY FOR
All Functional Derangements of the Liver, Tempo-
rary Congestion arising from Alcoholic Beverages,
Errors in Diet (Eating or Drinking), Biliousness,
Sick Headache, Giddiness, Vomiting, Heartburn,
Sourness of the Stomach, or Constipation. It is
a [Refreshing and Invigorating Beverage, most
Invaluable to Travellers, Emigrants, Sailors, and
Residents in Tropical Climates.
Eno’S ‘Fruit salt’ assists the Functions of the Liver, Bowels, Skin, and Kidneys
by Natural Means. There is no doubt that, where it has been taken in the earliest
stages of a disease, it has, in innumerable instances, prevented a serious illness.
CAUTION .-Examine the Capsule and see that it is marked END'S 'FRUIT SALT,’
otherwise you have the sinoerest form of flattery—IMITATION.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO. Ltd., ‘FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, London,
S.B., Eng., by J. C. ENO’S Patent.
Sold by Chemists and Stores everywhere.
WL
nr o
i i
Thoughtful Treatment
of such everyday ailments as biliousness, sick headache and
indigestion, does not involve the added discomfort caused by
rash and drastic purgatives. Give Nature a chance.
Just try one or two Cockle’s Pills. They will give a fillip to the
sluggish liver. That, in nine cases out of ten, is the cause of all the
trouble. have prescribed Cockle’s Pills for more than one
hundred years.
D
wSM
V
PILLS.
PUBLIC OPINION
is generally sane and trustworthy. It is only on really insignifi-
cant and unimportant matters that the sense of the community is
ever at fault. The sentiments and opinions of the world are more
likely to be right than those of the isolated critic. This is partic-
ularly true of such matters as must be decided by the test of expe-
rience. What the majority have proved in practice to be true
ought to weigh with us as an established fact. Now if there is one
question more than another on which public opinion is unanimous
it is that the excellence of BEECHAM’S PILLS as a family medi-
cine is unsurpassed. Their universal popularity has very suitably
been expressed in the world-famed expression
BEECHAM’S
PILLS
ARE WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
Prepared only by THOMAS BBECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire.
Sold everywhere In boxes, price ///A {56 pills) & 2/9 (168 pills).
RHEUMATISM
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY.
GOUT. RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA. LUMBAGO,
NEURALGIA.
GOUT AND
RHEUMATIC
They Never fall.
They Always Cure.
The only true and safe remedy for Gout and
Rheumatism that has stood the test of'time
AH Chemists and Stores at 1/1 $ ft 3/9 per box
Proprietor*. PROUT ft Co, aag. Strand.
London. England
GOUT
During the Progress of our GREAT REMOVAL
SALE we are offering the following
Usual Price. Sale Price
Double - Barrelled, Breech - loading
Guns, engine-turned rib. left'bar-
rel full choke, right modified, re-
bounding locks and pistol grip.
Trial .. £5 2 # £3 12 6
Single-Barrel Duck Guns, large bore,
to kill at 100yds. Trial .. ..8 6 0 610 0
Single-Barrel, 'Hammerless, Breech-
loading Guns, Choke bore, excellent
stock. Trial .. 3 10 0 117 6
Double - Barrelled, Breech - loading
Guns with Greener patent wedge
fast cross bolt, choke bore, walnut
Stock, pistol grip, patent cartridge
ejector. Trial.. .. 510 0 417 6
Special Bigeon Guns, with patent
side clips, file cut rib, top lever,
choke bore, specially selected wal-
nut stock, Greener patent wedge
fast cross bolt. Trial .. 10 0 0 710 0
Mauser Principle Rifles, 22 calibre,
kill at 300yds. Trial .. 15 0 13 6
Guns by All Makers in Stock.
Write for Special Sale Catalogue.
ALL ORDERS FOR GUNS AND RIFLES DE-
LIVERED CARRIAGE PAID TO ANY ADDRESS
IN AUSTRALASIA.
Small Arms Co.
Gunsmiths & Importers.
139 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE
i
i
Superior to
INJECTIONS
CUBEBS and
COPAIBA.
Cures the same
diseases without
inconvenience
48 hours
Each Capsule bears the name
Borated Goldenseal
Compound
? A safe and simple remedy fori
Bronchitis, Cafarrh, Hay Fever '
Inflammations, Irritations, nicer*
atlonsof ALL mucous membranes
or linings of tbo nose, throat,
stomach or urinary organs.
AT CHEMISTS
Why not cure yourself
i Treatise with jach bottle I
or mailed on request. | r
k lie Evans Chemical i
Cincinnati, Ohio,
0. S. A.
ical Co. /
V'A
CANT
B
BEAT
RIAR
PIPES
f
ALL SHAPES
11/ EACH POST FREE 1/2
l Quality Not Better
I in a
f Guinea Pipe
MICK SIMMONS
f TOREK£EP£RS -t TOBACCONISTS
SHOULD SEND FOR OUR TRADE US r\
FROOTOIDS
Cure Headache, Indigestion, Constipa-
tion, and Biliousness. They are elegant
in appearance and pleasant to take;
they are immensely more valuable than
an ordinary aperient; they remove from
the blood, tissues, and internal organs,
waste poisonous matter that is clogging
them and choking the channels that lead
to and from them. Frootoids are
THE BEST
aperient medicine to take when any
Congestion or Blood Poison is present,
or when Congestion of the Brain or
Apoplexy is present or threatening. They
have been tested, and have been proved
to afford quick relief in such cases when
other aperients have not done any good
at all. Frootoids are absolutely un-
rivalled for
FAMILY
use; their beneficial effects are evident
by the disappearance of headache— a
bright cheery sense of perfect health
taking the place of sluggish depressed
feelings, by the liver acting properly, and
by the food being properly digested.
Frootoids are a very economical
MEDICINE.
A dose taken once a week, at bed-time,
is highly beneficial. They act splendidly
on the Liver. A constipated habit of
body will be completely cured if the
patient will on each occasion, when
suffering, take a dose of Frootoids in-
stead of an ordinary aperient. The
sufferer thus gradually becomes quite
independent of Aperient Medicines.
Price 1/6. From all Chemists and
Medicine Vendors, and W. G. Heame &
Co.. Ltd., Geelong, Victoria.
YOU REQUIRE A STIMULANT.
Doctors recommend Port Wine for Invalids.
P
V. A.V. BtidgerreePoFt
ntAv?
K3J
mm
fills this prescription.
(Refuse substitutes.)
Don’t think it is too cheap.
Buy a bottle and compare
with other brands at a greater
cost.
The seoret is—we grow,
make and bottle this Wine,
thereby saving you middle-
men’s profits.
If your hotel or store does
not stock “ Budgerree Port,”
send us a P. 0.0. for 18s.,
and we will forward you a
dozen properly packed with-
out delay.
VICTORIAN ASSOCIATED
VINEYARDS CO.,
Growers and Merchants,
Basement, 78 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
And at 19 MoKILLOP STREET, MELBOURNE, VIC.


Rubber Goods for Engineers.
m
m
I&SSSSrk
<&^/P.R.C9
We manufacture every descrip-
tion of Engineers’ Rubber Goods,
and can till any order at the
lowest rates.
Our stock includes— Sheet Rub-
ber, all grades in hard and soft
Rubber—Red, Black and Grey ;
Rubber Buffers, for mining and
railway purposes; Rubber
Valves, for land and marine
engines ; Engine Piston Pack-
ings, to withstand high or low
steam pressures, ammonia, and
cold or hot water ; Sheet Joint-
ings, for acids, alkali, steam or
litpior; Rubber Hose, for de-
liver}', high and low pressures,
steam, suction, drill, etc. ;
Rubber Washers, for pipe joints.
Full detailsdn our No. 13 Cata-
logue. Ask far a copy.
PERDR/AU RUBBER CO., LTD.,
“ The Best AH Rubber Goods,”
270 George Street, Sydney.
ELECTROMOTORS LIMITED
Manchester.
COMPLETE INSTALLATIONS of ELECTRIC POWER
PLANTS IN WORKS, MILLS and FACTORIES.
Queensland Government Printing Office equipped with of our Motors.
Australasian Agency:
T. K.tSTEANES, 39 Pitt Street, SYDNEY . [2
Fibro-Cement
WHAT IS IT ? Portland Cement, rein-
forced with Asbestos. It lias the strength and
durability of concrete, and the cool and fire-proof
quality of Asbestos. It is, therefore, strong,
light, durable, cool, ant- and fire-proof, artistic in
appearance.
Made In Slates for roofing. Red, Grey and Purple.
In Sheets Bft. 2Jin. x 4ft. for Walls, Lining
and Ceilings.
Used by the Australian Governments ; also for covering
Ohurehes, Villas, Homesteads, Dairies, Silos, etc.
Write for Illustrated Catalogin' •* B ” to Sole Importers,
JAMES HARDIE & CO.,
Circular Quay West, SYDNEY ; and
581=583 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
The bulletin post cards-Ncw
Series, IV.. V., VI. Packet of Twelve, 6d;
Packet of Ten. sa.
WOLFE’S
FOR MEN
FOR WOMEN
The Family Stimulant.
“SENTINEL
JUNIOR.”
SIMPLE
ENGINE.
- ■
DIRECT
DRIVING
A DYNAMO
FOR
ELECTRIC
LIGHTING
PURPOSES.
m
if
SEND FOR CATALOGUES.
SENTINEL
1 9
[AIR COMPRESSORS
Special Designs to meet all requirements.
HIGH-SPEED ENGINES
Economical In Steam Consumption and Thoroughly Reliable.
HIGH-PRESSURE STEAM TRAPS
The Best High-Pressure Trap now in use.
Feed Water Filter 8 Oil Separator
Simple and Efficient, with large Filtering Surface.
Highest Economy
and Efficiency.
J. WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR, Ltd.,
82 Pitt Street, Sydney; Prell’s Buildings, Md-
bourne; and 228-50 Elizabeth Street, Brisbane.
ENGINEERS,
IRON FOUNDERS,
BOILER MAKERS,
&Cij &€>
MEPHAN FERGUSON
PROPRIETARY LIMITED.
Governing Directors
MEPHAN FERGUSON
ROBERT SHAND
and Works:
Gordon St.,
gags
.
Victoria.
Manufacturers of
WROUGHT IRON,
CAST IRON, and
STEEL PIPES.
Central
f 323€
\5221
ELECTRICAL MINING MACHINERY SPECIALISTS.
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LIMITED
AGENTS FOR ERNEST SCOTT & MOUNTAIN, LIMITED, GATESEND ON TYNE , ENGLAND.
■162 Clarence St.
Light,
■ mu
The PHILIPS
Pressed Steel Pulleys.
11 . 1 : -
Perfectly Balanced and Always Rum True.
Every Pulley Guaranteed. Large Stocks carried of all sizes.
m
m 9
Engineers and
Maehsnery Merchants,
,
BLUE SUMP FUSE.
GELIGNITE,
CONCENTRATORS,
JIGS & CLASSIFIERS
m
■
;
.
DETONATORS,
ROCK DRILLS,
COMPRESSORS
263 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY; S 523 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
FOR
MINING REQUISITES.
