

The EMBODIMENT OF PERFECTION— DEWAR’S WHISKY
R« Or. WATKINS S& C 0. 9
107 Kent, street, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors' Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill , Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EX I LOSIA Eb, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMO'WmT'TfV ■wu'tjsr axr'r'rA'MTA xr ami < x>t »btu itif i vo a\r* tt autt?
or
Gardner Duplex
Steam Pumps.
For Mining and General Service.
535 Kent Street, Sydney,
AND
486 Collins Street, Melbourne.
8 *. Agent: C. C. DELAND, Bowman’s Bldgrs., Adelaide.
]gQB AftT.
’
Radleys Orient fiotel.
PI O NEED
LEATHER BELTING
’ Guaranteed.
</. C. Ludowici & Son, Ld.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
Take it back.
I must have
HUTTON’S
Fine-Apple Brand
•NODVfI
® SWVH
CHUBB’S SAFES
wmi PATENT ASBESTOS INNER DOORS
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablet* is
recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for tbe diges-
tive organs.
J
HANSENS
TABLETS
For INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially-prepared Tablets acts most
beneficially when taken daily after meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
(iffa,
ajUU. faJoJJ&v
*JUo t&ju> fiuruXy CUcdL TmOLJeooiAj 'fit/j&a .
Ce
(fas
\> Sr A* «/ <*° A*V°*
? >1? Y V y>* c / f
Money advanced upon all Securities at Reasonable
Rates of Interest.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
THIS COMPANY WAS FORMED TO SUPPRESS USURY.
And at MELBOURNE. BRISBANE and NEWCASTLE.
BLNSDORPS
Royal
Dutch
the Queen of all Cocoas
is
FO^_
Aroma,Strength
Purity
A Roofing that is Satisfactory Alike to Architect, Builder and Owner—
MALTHOID ROOFING
Combines all tbe Qualities tbat make Perfection.
THE PA BAFFIN E PAINT COMPANY, CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.—D. S. EVANS, Australasian Manager.
KUPPER LAGER.
Vote
Yes or No,
but Vote for
THORNE’S
W XX I B K Y
IN THE SQUARE
BLACK BOTTLE.
HELIDON SPA WATER
The Helidon Spa Water Co., in its extensive has )
placed “the rational water cure" within reach of all. J
DEWHURST S HALLORAN. Ltd..
Agents.
The Bulletin
Vol. 32. — N0. 1627.]
[Thursday, April 20, 1911.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


It would cost you many guineas to obtain expert advice by consultation or
"correspondence. In books such as the following have the results of a
life-long study for a few shillings, and they are always available for consultation without extra fees.
Howells. F. J.: Soil Problems in Wheat Growing, 65., p. 6s. 6d. Nangle, J.: Aust. Building Practice. 10s. 6d.,
* Dlls 3d. Kleiser, G.: How to Argue and Win, 3s. 6d., p. 4s. Pierce, G. W.: Principles of Wireless Tele-
graphy IBs .p.155.9d. Standard Handbook for Electrical Engineers, 3rd Ed., fully revised, 1500 pages, 205., p.
20s. 9d. Richardson, A. 0.: The Power of Advertising, 7s. 6d., p. Bs. , by an Australian with a wide experience.
Renard A.H.: A.B.C. of Scientific Stock-Feeding; a practical treatise, with the working details of the recognised
svsteni of feeding for greatest profit. Price 55., posted ss. 6d. Reddy May 1.
The Farmer’s Handbook, 750 pages, fully illustrated, compiled by W. H. Clarke, published for Dept, of Agricul-
ture NSW , by direction of the Hon. Donald Macdonell, M.D.A., Minister for Agriculture, 3s. 6d., p. 4s. 7d.
GEORGE ROBERTSON & CO. PROP., LTD.; 238 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
FOR
! THROAT!!
Hudson’s “Eumenthol
sr,
AN IDEAL REMEDY
vHi.au
Bg
On
SOLD ON-V' IN iiiw, ir-rsce 1/6.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHGL CHEMICAL
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats, Bronchitis,
Influenza, and the Prevention of Consumption.
Containing No Cocaine or other Poisonous Drug.
Suited for Old and Young. s
The Lancet says: “Proved to be effective
as is creosote.”
Unlike cough medicines, “ EUMENTHOL JUJUBES ” do
not interfere with the Digestion ; oh the contrary, they
have a beneficial effect, as their antiseptic properties
prevent abnormal fermentation of the food when taken
after meals.
Sold by All Chemists, or
Post Free on Receipt of
1/6 In Stamps.
19 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
THE RED PAGE
Pot au Feu —Marmaduke Pickthall (Syd-
ney Book Club). Some short stories of
Oriental life, which recall the delightful
Said, the Fisherman; others of Switzer-
land and England. All worth reading.
All the World Wondered— Leonard Merrick
(Sydney Book Club). The first and
longest is about the worst of these
happy yarns, mostly about playwrights
and actresses. A good selection of
earlier Merrick stories is printed as
The Gall from the Past in Nelson’s 9d.
library.
Jim Hands —R. W. Child (Macmillan).
A quietly humorous American love
story, told by the girl’s father.
Flamsted Quarries —Mary Waller (G.
Robertson and Co.).' The sort of story
Hall Caine might have written if he
had grown up an American woman in-
stead of a Manx.
* * * *
Amongst the best of the cheap reprints are
H. Belloc’s Life of Danton (Nelson, Is.),
and Ole Luk-Oie’s The Green Curve
(Blackwood). The latter is a collection of
short storied, praised here on their first ap-
pearance.
DE PROFUNDIS.
She who was false to me became a stair
Piercing azure to
The dumb and battleme’nted Dark, where
through
(So near is God to Love’s divine despair),
I snatched tlie boon the desert ravens bare,
Pellucid joy from tear-filled Marah drew,
Heard “Peace, be still!” compose my tem-
pest crew,
And saw, again, the soft-eyed stars at
prayer.
Into mine eyes, in Love’s aphelion chilled,
Darkness, the urn of Light, their old soul
pours:
Silence, whose foam is cosmic song, re-
stores
The jangled ears her perjuries had killed:
And, drenched in utter exile’s briny rain,
Heart, on a whim’s wheel bruised, throbs
love again.
vie.
BERNARD O'DOWD.
Shaw’s New Plays and Prefaces
When Shaw was merely a dramatic critic
he stated his idea of comedy in Spencerian
language. He said that “its function is to
dispel unconsciousness by means of analy-
sis.” His own education has been a process
of disillusionment, and nis principal business
in life has been to dispel popular ignorance
by knocking the stuffing out of some hoary
illusions. It is the jester in the court of
Demos, as in earlier courts, who can indulge
in plain home talk most effectively, and
Shaw took up the role of jester for the sake
of its privileges. The purists say that he is
no dramatist, and the pedants say that he
has nothing but the shreds and patches of
other men’s philosophies. Shaw does not
mind what they say he hasn’t, so long as he
has a:n audience, for he knows that if he talks
long enough he will get the people to mend
their drains so that their souls may be saved.
In his Statement which was rejected by
the Select Committee on the Censorship,
Shaw labelled himself as “a specialist in im-
moral and heretical plays,” and defined the
popular meaning of “immoral” as “whatever
is contrary to established manners and cus-
toms.”
“My reputation has been gained by my
persistent struggle to force the public to re-
consider its morals. In particular I regard
much current morality as to economic and
sexual relations as disastrously wrong, and
I regard certain doctrines of the Christian
religion as understood in England to-day
with abhorrence. I write plays with the de-
liberate object of converting the nation to
my opinions in these matters.”
The contents of his latest volume —The Doc-
tor’s Dilemma, Getting Married, and The
Showing-up of Blanco Posnet (Constable,
6s.) —are double-barrelled attacks upon es-
tablished manners and customs —by play and
by preface. Anyone is in danger of get-
ting married, most people have required a
doctor, and everyone has some views on re-
ligion ; so these plays appeal to all.
Shaw takes some fair specimens of the
medical profession and analyses them in The
Doctor’s Dilemmd. Dr. Ridgeon has dis-
covered that an injection of opsonin will
butter the disease microbes so that they may
be more readily devoured by the white cor-
puscles. He is knighted, and a number of
colleagues call to congratulate him, and the
talk which follows is full of amusing disclo-
sures which justify Ridgeon’s confession
that “we’re not a profession, we’re a conspi-
racy.”
If by any chance the reader misses the
point of the first act, the preface rams it
home: ’
What is called Science has always pur-
sued the Elixir of Life and the Philosopher’s
Stone, and is just hs busy after them to-day
as ever it was in the days of Paracelsus. We
call them by different names —Immunization
or Radiology, or what not, but the dreams
which lure us into the adventures from which
we learn are always at bottom the same.
Science becomes dangerous only when it im-
agines that it has reached its goal.
It is said that the Roman augurs winked at
one another, and there would be nothing
much in Shaw’s doctors if they merely gave
each other away. The fine irony of the play
is in bringing them into contrast with Louis
Dubedat, an unscrupulous artist of genius.
Dubedat’s “shameful misconduct,” as a man
belonged to an unreal life, and in his dying
speech to the doctors he made a profession
of faith as an artist:
“In my own real world I have never done
anything wrong, never denied my faith,
never been untrue to myself. I’ve been
threatened and blackmailed and insulted and
starved. But I've played the game. I've
fought the good fight. ... (He feebly folds
his hands and utters his credo) :
“I believe in Michael Angelo, Velasquez,
and Rembrandt; in the. might of design,
the mystery of color, the redemption of ali
things by beauty everlasting and the mes-
sage of art that has made these hands
blessed. Amen.”
The preface contains a strong case for
bringing doctors under municipal control as
paid servants of the State.
Getting Married is a long conversation
without the customary division into acts or
scenes. The conversation leads to nowhere
in particular; but it is fairly sparkling.
The greengrocer says of his wife:
“She never understood that married people
should take holidays from one another, if
they are to keep at all fresh.”
“She’s never known any man but me, and
she can’t properly know me, because she
don’t know other men to compare me with.
Of course, she knows her parents in—well,
in the way one does know one’s parents.”
Leo, whose decree absolute is nearly due,
would like to retain her husband and the
other man:
“Why can’t I marry them both? I love
them both, I should like to marry a lot of
men. I should like to have Rejjy for every
day and Sinjon for concerts, and some great
austere saint for about once a year at the
end of the season, and some perfectly blith-
ering idiot of a boy to be, quite wicked
with.”
The Bishop: “A man is like a phono-
graph with half a dozen records. You soon
get tired of them all, yet you have to sit at
table while he reels them off to every new
visitor. In the end you have to be content
with his common humanity, and when you
come down to that you find out about men
what a great English poet of my acquaint-
ance used to say about women: that they
all taste alike.” . . .
Leo: “Then it’s a mistake to get married.”
The Bishop : “It is, my dear; but it’s a
much bigger mistake not to get married.”
* * * *
The most dramatic of the three plays is
that in which Blanco Posnet, a disreput-
able gambler, is tried for horse-stealing by
the sheriff and a jury of cowboys. Blanco
talks with the blasphemous freedom of his
kind. “Take care, he said to his
pious brother, “He hasn’t finished with you
yet. He always has a trick up His sleeve”
The brother, an elder who sells grog, be-
lieved that “what kqeps America to-day
the purest of the nations is that when she’s
not working she’s too drunk to hear the
voice of the tempter.”
The ruffianly Blanco gave the horse he
stole tp a woman with a sick child, so that
she might get to the doctor. Then Blanco
saw a message written on the rainbow—
“l’ve got the cincli on you this time, Blanco
Posnet”; and while reading it he was
arrested. The horse thief comes to the con-
clusion that though lie doesn’t understand
the game He plays, there is no doubt that
He didn’t make us for nothing.
“He made me because He had a job for me.
He let me run loose till the job was ready,
and then I had to come along and do it,
hanging or no hanging. And I tell you it
felt bully ; just bully.”
There can ,be no objection to the doctrine,
but the irreverent forms of speech used by
Blanco caused the British Censor to pro-
hibit the acting of the play. The-question
of the censorship is dealt with trenchantly
in Shaw’s prefaces. These are as vivacious
as the dialogues,; for Shaw acts on the
principle of Milton’s chantecleer, who,
“with lively din, scatters the rear of dark-
ness thin.”
Granville Barker and Pinero
The influence of Bernard Shaw is ap-
parent in Granville Barker’s realistic
comedy —The Madras House (E. W. Cole,
Is. 9d.). It is a Discussion about Woman
and the Art of Dress. Most of the talk
has that faithfulness to his types which dis-
tinguished Barker’s Waste and The Voysey
Inheritance.
Technically, the first act is a mistake.
It is devoted to scrappy remarks at the
house of Huxtable, a prosperous draper
with six unmarried daughters, to whom
Philip Madras and a friend have paid a
Sunday morning call. Some of it is plain
“How do you do,” a good deal is mere beat-
ing the wind, and its main purpose, ap-
parently, is to balance the six unmarried
daughters against “that industrial seraglio,”
the Madras House, in which Huxtable,
Philip Madras and his father are partners.
The act closes with the hollow sound of
the gong—“the dinner hour striking its own
empty stomach,” and a chorus of “good-
byes.”
Madras House is to be sold to a senti-
mental American, who has already made a
fortune in drapery. He explains the simple
plan:
The Ladies’ Department served bV gentle-
men ; the gentlemen’s by ladies'. Always, of
course, within the bounds of delicacy. Sur-
rounded by Gracious Womanhood does the
sensual man forget how much money he is
spending or does he not? . . . Then, sir,
I should like you to see our Ladies’ Fancy
Department at its best. Athletes, every
one of ’em. Not a man under six feet,
bronzed, noble fellows. .. . The women
come in flocks.
There is some comedy in the scenes, and the
various threads of interest are interwoven
fairly well. The curtain falls on a lull in
the conversation between Madras
and his wife before a dying fire. They
touch the fringe of weighty problems, and
get to no conclusion. Such conversation in
a plotless drama needs to be as bright and
audacious as Shaw’s, and that is not the
case in The Madras Bouse.
* * * *
Pinero’s Mid-Channel is a variant of the
domestic tragedy in which he has specialised
since The Second Mrs. Tanqueray. The
story is a commonplace one. After 14 years
of married life, without children, the success-
ful stockbroker has become indifferent and
his wife raspy. A friendly adviser likens
their case to that of passengers between
Folkestone and Boulogne. There is a place
mid-channel where the choppy sea tries the
best of tempers; after that’s passed, all’s
well. However, the couple part at that
place, and each finds the usual solace. There
is an attempted reconciliation; each has dis-
missed the temporary comforter; but the
husband bullies a confession out of the wife
and refuses to forgive her lapse. Thrown
on to the other man, she finds that he has
already made other arrangements—so she
ends her life.
Exbept for the heavy jocularity of the
good-natured friend, there is no relief in
these dialogues of petty wrangle and
misunderstanding. The characters are
not lifted to a tragic level, nor is
the wife’s suicide the inevitable outcome of
the situation. Death rounds off a trouble
conveniently; but it is often as cheap a final
curtain as that of the reunited couple Smiling
through their tears, which would have been
the natural end of such a play in the days
before Ibsen.
Pinero’s realism is lop-sided, for it ex-
cludes joy. , A continuous atmosphere of
gloom can only be justified by something tre-
mendous in the way of thunder and lightning.
Brandos’ “Lassalle”
Ferdinand Lassalle is a: figure of unusual
interest in the history of modern Europe.
As a writer, ap orator and a Socialist
leader his position in Germany in the ’6o’s
was almost equal to that of Bismarck. He
had the Jewish type of mind in the highest
degree of efficiency, and a magnetic person-
ality which made; him a great politician and
a great lover. His duel over the remarkable
woman, Helene von Donniges, and his death
at the hands of the weakling, Racowitza,
gave him a romantic halo, which was en-
larged by Meredith’s use of the story in The
Tragic Comedians. A great deal has been
written about Lassalle since then, but there
has been no full-length literary portrait of
the man until George Braudes made one
some years ago. This has now been trans-
lated into English —Ferdinand Lassalle
(Heinemann, 75.), and it makes a fitting
companion picture to the- autobiography of
Helene von Ilacowitza, which was reviewed
here last year.
* * * i *
Amongst the things of interest in Viereck’s
Confessions of a Barbarian is an interview
with George Brandes, the sage of Copen-
hagen. In true American fashion, Viereck
forced himself upon the old man with a verbal
introduction from James Huneker, whom
Brandes had never met :
“Yes,” he replied, without vanity and, let it
be added, without smiling, “I am famous.
But that js a meaningless phrase in view of the
decreasing sale of my books.' In some cases the
sales have dwindled'down to thirty or forty
copies.”
“Some of my books have been more fortunate
than others. The complete edition of mv Danish
writings was subscribed for by 6000 people
between 1899 and 1902. That is a great number
for a uqnntry with a population of only two and a
half millions.”
“ All my books published in the English lan-
guage earn me less than £lO per annum.”
“There are only a few immortals. In all the
revolving years the world has produced scarcely
twelve, and I shall not be among them. And
yet, work alone is the cup that stays and comforts
us.”
M. Faguet’s Ideas of Baudelaire
Emile Faguet is a literary Mr. Venus; as
his testimonial, written by himself, tells us,
he is an expert in the analysis and arrange-
ment of an author’s general ideas and ten-
dencies, from which process there results, if
not a portrait, at least a well-balanced
skeleton that will stand alone. ‘‘ln the
vicious pride of his youth,” he made pro-
phecy of Baudelaire, “il ne survivra pas,
c’est I’affaire d’une generation,” and pending
his speedy extinction, omitted him from his
“Literary History of France,” as was
mentioned on this page when the book
appeared. Now (La Revue, Sept. 10) he
dissects this body that persists in living,
and finds that Baudelaire is short-winded, a
barren rascal who writes only short poems,
and not many of them, a discovery he had
previously made about De Musset, Gautier
and De Vigny; what it has to do with the
value of their poetry only M. Faguet knows.
Further, “ Notez que ce novateur n’a
aucune idee neuve. Ilfaut de Vigny atten-
dre jusqu’a Sully-Prudhomme pour trouver
des idees nouvelles. . . Jamais Baudelaire ne
traite que le lieu commun fripe jusqu’ ala
corde.” The reader, conscious of the sugges-
tion of crowded ideas behind every phrase of
the most original French poet of his century,
wonders: wonders too, however “le poete
aride de la became a symbol of un-
utterable wickedness—a volatile poison, to be
handled tally after the eyes were masked with
glass. M. ? Faguet amplifies. La Benediction:
le poete est ici-bas un martyr. Les Phares :
les artistes sont les lumieres de I'humanite. .
La Charogne : le mot d’Eecle.siastique v unus
est interitus hominum et jumentorum (follow-
ing Brunetiere). Now he sees what the critic
would be at; these tags are what the poems
mean to him. The only comment is to quote
the shortest example, La Beaule, which
according to M. Faguet=la beaute rend les
choses belles.
Je suis belle, O mortels ! cotnme un rSve de
pierre,
Et rfibn seiu, oit chacun s’est meurtri tour k tour,
E*t fait pour inspirer au poete un amour
Eternel et muet ainsi que la matibre,
•Te trdne dans I’azur comme un sphinx incompris,;
J’unis un cceur de neige h la blancheur des cygnes;
Je hais le mouvement qui deplace les lignes ;
Et jamais je ne pleure et jamais je ne rig.
Les poetes, devant mes grandes attitudes,
Que j’ai l’air d’emprunter aux plus fiera monu-
ments,
Consumerontleur jours en d’austbres Etudes:
Car j’ai pour fasciner ces doeiles amants,
De purs miroirs qui font, toutes ehoses plus belles :
Mes yeuX, mes larges yeux aux elartes 4ternelles.
M. Faguet’s “idee” is apparently a . misty
recollection of the penultimate verse. This
is the soi't of criticism that makes Lear a
warning to fathers, and The Ancient Mari-
ner a protest against cruelty to animals.
Applied tentatively to M. Faguet’s poete-
philosophe, it yields these original ideas:
Love is changeless amid change (Oe'qui dure
and "Au hard de I’eau); Nil desperandum,
keep the pot a-bilin’, girls (Les Danaides);
Happiness is found in sacrifice (Le Bonheur,
on the faith of Firman Roz) ; Man depends
oil his fellows (Le Songe).
The mistake lies in the method—the
attempt to isolate the “idea” of a poem.
Poetry does not deal with ideas, except as
fused and transfornied by the imagination of
the poet. And the poem compact of idea,
emotion and form, the concrete expression
of “ the spiritual unity or mood ” (as C. J.
Brennan, the clearest exponent of the
theory, puts it) cannot be resolved.
Add to his method the temperament of
the critic—“il ne lui manque qu’un peu de
sensibilite, un peu de tendresse, un peu de
paresse, un peu de sensualite,” says Jules
Lemaitre—and beneath the scalpel and
cleaver the poetry escapes, refusing, like
Mr, Venus's disdainful charmer, “to be
regarded in that bony light.”
V.V.V.
“Awe? I have never been aware of senti-
ments of awe towards any*“ artist, save
Charles Baudelaire. My secret attitude to
them has always been that I would like to
shake their bauds and tell them briefly in
their private slang, whatever their private
slang was, that they had given immense
pleasure to another artist. I have excepted
Charles Baudelaire ever since I read his
correspondence, in which he is eternally try-
ing to borrow ten francs from some one, and,
if they cannot make it ten —then five.
There is something so excessively poignant,
and to me so humiliating, in the- spectacle
of the grand author of La Charogne going
about among his acquaintance in search of
a dollar, that I would only think about it
when I wished to inflict on myself a pen-
ance. It is a spectacle unique. Like the
King of Thule song in Berlioz’s Damnation
of Faust, it resembles nothing else of its
kind. If the artist does not stand in awe
before that monumental enigma of human
pride which called itself Charles Baudelaire,
how shall the artist’s posture be described?”
—Arnold Bennett (English Review).


A
w ace
, f^HI.oN;V R |9ll
Ne^* a A^ iN
Anthony Horderns’
r
famous
Xow
Cfi
135
1210
1215
Fashionable' Winter Coats.
No. 1215—Cheviot Serge Coat and Skirt Costume, Coat
fastens down side, Panel back and front, no collar, relieved
Black Fancy Braid and Crochet Barrel Buttons, lined Stripe
Italian, smartly cut new-shaped Skirt, finished Braid to-
rn fitch, in Reseda, Prune and Navy .. ... ... ... 63/=.
Similar style in Navy Melton Cloth (No. 311), lined
Polonaise ... ... 45/6
No. 644—Coat and Skirt Costume, of all-wool Cheviot Serge,
semi-fitting Coat, relieved panels of self and fine Rat’s-tail
Braiding, lined Chiffon Taffeta new-shaped Skirt, Panels back
and front, trimmed Braid to match ; in Cigar Brown, Vieux
Rose, and Petunia ... 77/6
No. 1210—Coat and Skirt Costume of Striped Melton Cloth,
semi-fitting Coat, new Sailor Collar of Black Moire, reverse
stripe on hips, relieved Fancy Silk Braid, lined Stripe Italian,
Skirt with shaped piece at foot, trimmed "Braid to match ; in
Wine, Brown, Grey with Black Stripes ... ... ... 57/6
No. 135/I—Wincey Blouse, Cream ground with Sky, Helio, Grey
and Black Stripes, Yoke back and front, pin tucked, long .
sleeves, fasten in front ... ... ... ... ... ... 8/6
No. llOO—Blanket Tweed Coat, full length, light weight, Collar
fastens across or open, double-breasted, Panel back ; Colors :
Mid Grey, Green and Brown mixtures ... ... ... 37/6
Similar style, No. 1564 ; Colors—Prunelle, Green and
Heather mixtures, with faint overcheck... ... ... 42/=
No: 1571— Navy Cheviot Serge Coat, single-breasted, Panel
back, Roll Collar, finished Black Moire and,Buttons . ... 27/6
Similar style, No. 78, Navy Serge, untrimmed ... ... 2 1 /=
Also in Navy Plain Cloth, untrimmed ... ... ... 27/6
No. 1311— Navy Cloth Coat, full length, Panel back, single-
breasted, Roll Collar, Cuffs and Skirt trimmed Black Silk
Braid ... ... 35/=
ANTHONY HORDERNS
FOR EVERYTHING.
WE are Family Drapers, Working Jewellers,
Complete House Furnishers and Universal
Providers, and our enormous store, with its
immense stock of the World's Choicest Commodities,
offers attractions not to be found elsewhere* Write
for Illustrated Departmental Price Lists of anything
you want, posted frep on request, and reap the full
benefit of our unique system of Spot Cash trading.
Consult our Winter Fashion Portfolio for an
authentic presentation of the prevailing modes.
Send for a copy, posted free.
/Infhonu Horderns'
p n
I-W JBufi
■>
i m
foil
1;
.
1100
.•:t
,-M
h :
r i
.*'' 1
■■
i
57}
HORDERN & SONS,
Only Universal
Providers,
Palace Emporium
Brickfield Hill
if i
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau.
; 11 Partieiilars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Clmiate Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superband marvellous scenery.
Crown Land suitable for Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on
Better Terms than elsewhere in Australia.
Corner of Queen and
George Streets, Brisbane.
T. C. TROEDSON,
General Director.
Sydney Branch Office at 116 Pitt Street.—Local Director : A. MESTON.
Underwear
MARK
Made in
England
ARK
3 avtii
The “BIRD MARK” on your Underwear
is a guarantee that the garments are made from
the finest Australian Lambswool and Cotton,
and in some qualities Silk is added.
The garments also have patented improve-
ments and fit the figure perfectly.
The most perfect underwear for hot weather
is the “BIRD MARK” Merino and Silk
Underwear, it will stand hard wear yet light in
weight.
Sold by all Drapers and Outfitters.
Wholesale only :
I. & R. MORLEY and UEO. BRETTLE & CO.,
London, E.C
Ask for THE ‘ BIRD MARK ’ ME JINO UNDERWEAR
ZEISS
FIELD GLASSES
WITH ENHANCED STEREOSCOPIC EFFECT.
ARMY.
MARINE.
TRAVEL.
SPORT.
STALKING.
Features:
Brilliant
Definition.
Extensive Field.
Great Light
Intensity.
Mechanical
Precision.
Stability.
Tropic Proof.
With
separate eyepiece
focussing.
X 8 £8 15 0
Xl2—£l2 10 0
NEW MODELS
OF ALL
OPTICIANS AT
AUSTRALASIAN
PRICES.
With
central focussing
mechanism.
X 6 0 0
X 8 15 0
Will Anprape »■ BOOKS.
ANDRADE’S
MINSTREL SHOW,
or Burnt Cork
Comicalities.
A Splendid Collec-
tion of Comic Songs,
Jokes, Conundrums,
Stump Speeches,
Monologues, Dia-
logues, Farces, Inter-
ludes and After-
pieces for Minstrel
Entertainments.
1/-
Post Free
1/2.
Kblly Gang, True Story,
1/-. Book of Coin Tricks,
1/-. Wrestling, by Frank
Gotch, World's Champion,
lOd. One Thousand Ways
to Get Rich, 1/6. How Old
Mose Counted Eggs, and
115 other Recitations, 1/-.
Letter Writer, 1/-. Dr.
Foote’s Plain Home Cyclo-
pedia, latest edition, 1248
pages, 400 colored plates
and engraving's, 7/6. Dr.
Faulkner’s Original Book
ok Nature, the only genu-
ine and unabridged edi-
tion, 3 6, posted 4/-. Free-
masonry Explained, 1/3.
New Tricks with Cards,
1/-. How to Mesmerise, 1/-
ANY BOOK
YOU WANT.
Mention The Bulletin.
Above prices include postage to any address.
CHEAP CONJURING TRICKS.
2
\i
Marvellously Simple 1
Simply Marvellous !
Multiplying and Van-
ishing Billiard Balls.
Produced from no-
where, appearing' at
word of command be-
tween the fingers (see
illustration). Complete
with Pull Instructions
(enabling the merest
amateur to perform it),
1/6 ; posted, 2 -
Two-from-Flve Card
Trick. Another start-
ler, introducing some-
thing quite new in
magic. Price 6d. ; post
free, Bd.
The Above Two Tricks (which require no stage,
no confederates and no special skill), post free any.
where, wiv.h Illustrated Gsftalog-ue of Matric, 2 6.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 Bourks St., Melbourne.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
EstablishKU 1549. For pjf e Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONET TO LEND
On Security or Freehold or Leasehold
,City or Suburban Propertied, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury T Oills of any of the Aus*
tralian States or New Zealand DSF" AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowinar Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 r>er cent, of the loan durinsr any year, without notice or pavrpent of any fine.
Directors —The Hon. A. W . Meeks. M.L.C., Chairman : Seriatpt-tne Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputv-Chairman : Benjamin'
Short Esq. : The Hon. James Burns. M.L.C. : The Hon. R. J. Black. M.L.C.; Tin- 11 m. F. E. Winchcombe, M.L.C.;
Adrian Knox, E«q.. K.C. General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece. F.1.A.. F.F.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. H. W. APPERLY, Secretary.
HEARNE’S
Bronchitis Cure
The Grandest Remedy in the World for
COUGHS & COLDS
ONE DOSE IS GENERALLY SUFFICIENT.
THOSE who have taken this medicine are amazed at
its splendid healing power. Sufferers from Bron-
chitis, Cough, Croup, Asthma, Hoarseness, Difficulty
of Breathing, Pain or Soreness in the Chest, experience
delightful and rapid relief; and to those who are subject
to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a
complete cure. It is most comforting in allaying Irrita-
tion in the Throat and giving Strength to the Voice,
and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become
chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption is
not known where “Coughs” have, on their first appear-
ance, been properly treated with this
medicine. No house should be without
it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose or
two is generally sufficient, and a com-
plete cure is certain.
SMALL
SIZE,
2/6
LARGE
SIZE:
4/6
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS and MEDICINE VENDORS, and
W. G. HEARNE & CO., Ltd.
Geelong, Vic.
Forwarded to any Address when not obtainable locally.
NS.W. Branch Office: 522 George Street, Sydney.
gUNYIP'
# Forest Devil.
HOW A LADY WORKED
THE “DEVIL.”
Messrs. J. COOPER & SONS,
Melbourne.
PANTON HILL,
17th October, 1010.
Dear Sirs, —Just a few lines to let you know how we are getting along with the Bunyip
Forest Devil father bought from you three weeks ago. Father says it is the BEST
MACHINE HE HAS EVER USED, and he has seen and used a good many, and is very
pleased with it. I must let you know a little what we have done with it. Our trees are
mostly white gum, box, and messmate. We have uprooted trees that were 4ft. 6in. in
diameter, or so thick that the anchor rope was just big enough to go round them, with only
father and myself on the lever. There was one giant that, when I said to pull it, father
seemed very doubtful, and told me to wait until my brothers, came home from school; but I
said, “ Put the ropes on ” ; and both of us got on the lever, and, in a short time, out came the
monster with roots in the air, and made a hole not less than sft. deep and 12ft. wide. We
had not seen a tree pulled like it. Father would not have the hole filled up, but lets it stop
there so people can see WHAT A POWERFUL MACHINE THE "BUNYIP” IS. I
have PULLED TREES MYSELF, about 2ft. in diameter, without any help. Some of our
trees are dead about five years, and the roots are mostly green, and bring up a great lot of
soil, but it is all the same. THE GREEN ONES COME OUT JUST AS EASY AS THE
DEAD ONES. There is NO STOPPING when once the “ Devil” catches hold of them —
THEY HAVE TO COME WITH THE BUNYIP. Wishing you every success in the
future, yours truly, (Signed) MARIA NOTSCHALL.
John Cooper 8 Sons,
287-9 Elizabeth Street (opp. St.
Francis’s Church), MELBOURNE.


A Tonic Free from
Alcohol
4
Are you pale, weak, easily tired,
and do you lack nerve power ?
Ask your doctor if Ayer’s Sar-
saparilla would not be good for
you. He knows, and will ad-
vise you wisely. Not a drop of
alcohol in this medicine, ft
puts red corpuscles into the
blood, gives steady, even power
to the nerves; and all without
stimulation. Make no mistake.
Take only those medicines the
best doctors endorse. Ask your
own doctor
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
Prepared by Dr. J C. Ayer & Co.. Lowell, Mass.. U. S. A.
NTJ
PA
Collison&Co.
PATENTS and TRADE MARKS
obtained In all countries.
483 Collins St., MELBOURNE.
Eagle Chambers, ADELAIDE
Write us for Inventors' Chide. Estahlished 1877
Absolutely Pare.
The very lock of
Cerebos Salt suggests
purity, and indicates
the extreme care with
which the process of
manufacture is safe-
guarded.
Cerebos
Salt
Agents— Harrison & Attwood, Sydney.
YOUR EYES!
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL.
EYE
OINTMENT.
INSTANT
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE IT!
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-. Or by post from
Proprietors, 443 Bourke St., Melbourne.
For RHEUMATISM
Mm
TmTI'VVVVi^VVYVVi'VvYvYvy^Si
and all BLOOD DISORDERS.
Packets, 3d., 6d. and Is.
ri
RUPTURE
I>o you suffer from this complaint ? No
doubt you wish to be cured without operation.
Have you grown tired ot wearing useless
trusses ? Then send for our little book,
giving a full description of our
AUTOMATIC
Air Cushion Appliance
by means of which a permanent cure can be
effected. We positively affirm this in spite ot
the many previous disappointments you may
have had. This appliance is something en-
tirelv new —is in fact the Best Rupture
Appliance of the Century, and to
prove this to you
WE GIVE YOU TWO DAYS TRIAL
with each appliance that we send out. Perfect
comfort and ease trom the first day's use. No
sted bands to torture or galling pads or
leather chafing understraps. The pad is made
of soft pliable rubber, which presses gently
but firmly on the correct spot.
Full Particulars Posted Free
WINSLOW CO.,
34-9 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
Good for -
■
The Children
Every mother knows that there is
no better Cough Medicine for the
little ones than “Bonnington’s Irish
Moss.” Its soothing and healing
properties are at once noticeable. It
is pleasant to take and affords relief
from the first dose.
Guaranteed entirely free from harmful narcotics
BONNINCTON’S IRISH MOSS
gained its place in public favor by sterling worth, and keeps it by the same
unchanged efficiency. For the relief and cure of Coughs and ColdSj Bronchitis,
Whooping Cough, Croup, this remedy is unsurpassed.
BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTES.
Always ask for “BONNINGTON’S'
1/6 & 2/6
HEALTHFUL. ECONOMICAL. CONVENIENT.
BICKFORD S Essence of Coffee,
OUR. JACK” Brand.
Obtainable Everywhere.
Fulfils the requirements of the “ PURE FOODS’’ Act.
100 CUPS FOR 1/6.
A. M. BICKFORD & SONS, LTD., Pitt St„ Sydney *, Currie St., Adelaide ; Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
TORTURING VARICOSE VEINS CURED
Many old stubborn cases, even where ulcers of 20 years’ standing were present, have been cured in a
few weeks—the worst cases responding as readily as those only recently developed. If you are a sufferer
you should obtain full particulars of this wonderful remedy.
THE. VECSEY METHOD OF TREATMENT
quickly stops the pain, and subdues the existing inflammation. Its continued application eradicates the
accumulation that distends the veiqs, and restores the valves and.walls to their original healthy state.
Until 1908 a rational cure
for Varicose Veins was con-
sidered an impossibility.
Recourse was always had
to the surgeon’s knife,
which gave only temporary,
and even then painful re-
lief.
We have discovered a
method of treatment, by
which the very worst cases
of Varicose Veins can be
rapidly and permanently
cured. In fact, so wonder-
ful is the method, that
inside the first three days
every bit of the agonising
pain that nearly drives you
mad will be drawn out,
and the ultimate gradual
contraction of the distend-
ing vein, and its restoration
to a normal slate, is a
matter only of a few weeks’
continuous treatment.
FREE BOOK.
t
MR. C. VECSEY,
who discovered and perfected the Vecsey
Method of treating Varicose Veins.
_To sufferers from Vari-
cose Veins the Vecsey
Method of Treatment comes
as a great boon. Previous
to its discovery no palp-
less permanent palliative
was known. It cures tjie
veins absolutely, so that
they do not return.
Let us send you copies
of many letters from
f ateful, cured patients—
-1 rom men and women
who had, before coming
to us, given up all hope
of ever securing relief,
and considered a cure
absolutely out of the
question. To-day they
are st rong and well, happy
and free from the old
trouble for all time.
ADVICE FREE.
If you suffer from Varicose Veins or a Bad Leg, write, enclosing 2d. stamp, for full particulars and
our free book, which fully describes the treatment. Call, if convenient, for free consultation and a per-
sonal explanation of the treatment. Hours : 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. daily. Other times by appointment.
THE VECSEY VARIX-ARIUM, 104
LINDEN COURT, SYDNEY
(corner Market & Casi lereajrh Streets).
r FOR ALL AGES,^
from the nursery upwards,
HORLICK’S MALTED MILK
is an ideal food-beverage, easily digested,
nourishing, invigorating. It is indis-
pensable to invalids and the aged, and
provides a full diet in sickness.
Especially valuable
in Hot Climates.
Of all Chemists & Stores.
Samples & Pamphlets:
82, Pitt Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Horlick's Malted Milk
Co., Slough, Bucks,Eng.
MALTED MILK
Free t. Smokers!
Mr. R. J. Hinton, Jerrara Creek, Marulan,
N.S.W., writes
“ It gives me great pleasure to inform you that I
have been completely cured of the Tobacco
Habit by your wonderful Tobacco Specific, after
using tobacco heavily*for seven years, sometimes
Boz. to lOoz. in the week. It is nQW 12 months
since I last used tobacco, and, although I am con-
tinually in the company of smokers, I do riot have
the least desire to smoke, therefore I consider
the cure permanent.
“My general health is now perfect; all .my
former complaints, such as irregular Heart
Action, Dizziness, Nervousness and Stomach
Trouble, which I have every reason to believe
were caused through the use of tobacco, have en-
tirely disappeared, and are only remembered as a
hideous nightmare. I eat and sleep well, and feel
fit to face the world again. It will give me great
pleasure to recommend your remedy to others.”
FREE SAMPLE.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you a FREE
SAMPLE of Tobacco Specific, also Booklet, Testi-
monials, etc.
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
DEFT. G, VICTORIA ARCADE, SYDNEY. If
; £15731 18(9
at a penny a smile, the cash vajue
of . y °. u The Wayback Series.
MILNERS' SAFES
have the Largest Sale in the World.
■
SYDNEY : John Keep & Sons, Ltd., Clarence St.
MELBOURNE: Briscoe & Co., Ltd., Lit. Collins St.
BRISBANE : Webster & Co., Ltd., Mary St.
PERTH : McLean Bros. & Rijig.
Aus. Rep.—T. Nicholls, c/o Sydney Asrents.
There’s Sauce lor you!
Montserrat
Lime Juice Sauce suits
all tastes, and owing to its
purity, adds a zest to food,
without upsetting the most
delicate digestion. It helps
your food to feed you.
Jlsk voir Storekeep r for it.
Guaranteed tree from Preservatives.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Fair Fortunes.
Lo, the fivers reek their richness! From the Hunter
to the Tweed
Pour the farm-lands forth their harvests; pleasant
pastures greet the eye;
Here the dairy cattle fatten; here is water, grass
and feed,
And a certainty of season as the fertile years
roll by.
But I long for old Monaro, for the place ■ where I
was born
Where the clear creeks sing and sparkle from their
sources in the snow
While I watch my silky milkers, while I count my
bags of corn,
I am pining for the places where the hefty tim-
bers grow.
1 am weary of these summers and these tilth lands
deep and fair,
Of the lucerne’s green abundance that you cut
and cut again;
And these swollen cattle pumpkins fill my spirit
with despair;
I grow weary ’mid my melons and repine among
my cane.
Oh, ’tie south from Kosciusko; or ’tis westward of
Bonang,
By the bridle tracks a-winding that my heart
Would have me go,
Through the gullies of Monaro, that grey moun-
tains overhang
With their feet among the clover and their heads
amid the snow.
Here the flowers bloom in winter. We have fuchsias
in July.
Here the bank clerk grows guavas in his kitchen
garden, full
Of sub-tropical profusion. Here will effort slight
supply
All requirements of existence from a store-house
bountiful.
But my heart is in her ranges. In the land where
1 was born,
Where a clearer air, frost-laden, brings red energy
and health.
Though I’m growing rich and richer ’mid the
melons, cane and corn,
I have asked my soul the question: “Is Content the
price of Wealth ?”
I was bred to stock and station, as a soldier to his
trade —
To the life of spur and saddle, .where a man
would gallop free,
Round the steepest hills, unthinking, into gorges,
undismayed,
That would set these river cockies all a-shiver
just to see.
Here the air hangs thick and heavy. When the
monsoon brings its rain,
You can feel these fat lands growing. There’s
but little work to do,
For the Hindu takes your husking and the big
mills crush your cane,
And the new-chum does the milking for a very
slender “screw.”
I am fat and over fifty ; I’m the Mayor of the Shire,
Hold my river lands in freehold, and my bank
account by now —
Yet how bitter, when you search it, tastes the apple
of desire! —
May be Written down in figures at a modest forty
thou’.
I’m a settler to be envied by the settlers of the
South,
By the strugglers on the ranges; by the battlers
of the West;
By the little cocky farmers who are living hand to
mouth,
And the fellows in the drought-lands and the
toilers and the rest.
With my bungalow resounding to the pianola’s
strains;
With my buggy horses prancing on the gravel by
the gate,
With a fortune, swelling hourly in the profits and
the gains,
It is likely they’d regard me as a favored sen of
Fate.
Yet these mountains of Monaro and the hut where
I was born
Come before me like a picture, till the melons
and the cane
Have evanished into shadow, with the milkers and
the corn,
And with Love and Youth to spur me, I am
riding home again.
VICTORIA.
E. J. BRADY.
A Picture.
A ripple of light
Like the first wave-break of a tidal dawn
Across the heaven.
Far above, a form
Stealing, in robes of green, with eyes of jet
To gaze upon the dawn-grey silent road.
All litten by a little lantern-flame
Blown by the dawn wind, burning.
From the dust
Beneath, a song: “0 dawning sky,
Once more we greet at the witch’s web,
Netted with kiss and sigh!
I have watched the vampire-soul to her lips
Steal, and her Sin I know;
Yet down the road to the Witch I ride
With eyes that see, yet are blind (for pride),
As ever a man must go!
“0 dawn-wind’s breath!
Her eyes look down into mine like lights
In an evil dream of Death;
Her lips are red with the stain of life
From the pierced vein ebbing slow;
Yet down the road to the Witch is borne
My soul that sees, yet is mute (from scorn);
As ever a man must got ”
A stifled cry
Drowned in the orchard-song of waking birds:
A closing casement, and a lamp that dies:
Dawn on a long road empty to the world. . .
N.S.W.
HUGH McKAY.


Combination Couch and Bed.
Size when open, 4ft. x 6ft. 7in.
CHANGED INSTANTLY
■* t * > • .'ll-
K>' i V- > *■ V . * v Tl ■ •
*, i- v t A i V ? ■
'®v\\
CLOSED AS COUCH.
3trnSm
sfes
''afe-**.
OPEN AS DOUBLE BED.
Cannot get out ol order • is
exceptionally strong and durable.
Just the thing lor offices,
small rooms, or where an extra
bed is required.
Invaluable for hotels, boarding-
houses, coffee palaces, and similar
establishments.
Can be had fitted with box, to
act as linen press. Three pieces
of furniture in one.
Elegantly upholstered.
PRICES:
In Cretonne, £4 4s. ; in
Tapestry or American Leather,
£4 1 55. ; in Rexine, £5 ss. and
£5 15s. With Box, 20s. extra.
Can only be obtained from
MARCUS CLARK & Co. Ltd.
' ‘ '• '
SYDNEY.
i
The Bulletin Post Cards.
NEW SERIES, IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve
Packet of Ten
... 6d
~J 5d
UNDER VICE-REGAL
PATRONAGE.
The Misses Isaacs
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair-
workers & Dermatologists,
161 KING STREET, SYDNEY, between Elizabeth & Castlereagh Streets.
Transformations from £4/4/- Tails from 7/6. Puffs from 26/- set. Fringes from 7/6.
Telephone 2138 Cehtral. COMBINGS MADE UP.
Country orders receive prompt attention.
The Goldfields Diamond Drilling Co., Ltd.,
339 Collins street, MELBOURNE. 70 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Boulder Road, KALCOORLIE, W.A.
Diamond Drilling and Water Boring Contractors.
Sole Manufacturers of The Victoria Percussion Drill. Agents for THE SULLIVAN MACHINERY
CO.’S Diamond Drills, Air Compressors, Rock and Air Hammer Drills.
Drill Carbons and Spares for Diamond Drills stocked. Full particulars and prices on application.
Hi
i i ’ * 4 »?« * I Jf * ' *'' '* * -''' *
gj3ijl£ mwmt
gaga?
Is*-
-■:= hr
11l *.* - t
- - :',-v
maintain the maximum
lighting efficiency with
the minimum gas
consumption !
!' -Tv;
IN the mansion, as well as in the
cottage, factory or shop, wherever
the maximum lighting efficiency
is desired from a minimum quantity
of gas,. Welsbach Mantles—the
Australian-made Mantles—are indis-
pensable.-
There is no variation in quality.
Every Welsbach Mantle is perfectly
woven, thoroughly impregnated with
the special Welsbach fluid, thus
guaranteeing the' greatest durability
and the highest illuminating power.
No need to waste money experi-
menting with flimsy foreign-made
.INfanties —they are dear at any price.
Badly-lighted 'roorns are a thing of the past. It will
pay you to use Welsbach Mantles now and always.
Ask your Qasfitter, Ironmonger or Storekeeper
to supply WELSBACH Mantles, and make
sure they are WELSBACH.
Proved to Assist Digestion beyond any Doubt or Question
ABSOLUTELY
PURE.
obtainable:
EVERYWHERE.
The Largest Distillers
■
in tHe World
FREEBOOTER
brand —_
ReOISTfRCD
SQUARE
SCHNAPPS
IT IS
WOOUCE
SQUARE
HOLLAND
proprietors
raroeoiAnw Disnaoucs
D *urr HOLLAND
\<sN
1
ABDULLAS in our
hours of ease
Are certain, safe,
and sure to
please.
CIGARETTES.
r o
0 o
o g
?? a
at some of the fine cars in our Garage
at \ 36- \3B Phillip Street, They repre-
sent the pick of the motor world, and
if you are thinking of getting a- car
you must inspect these models— -
Daimler, Austin, Delaunay-Belleville,
F.N., Schacht Motor Buggy,
Halley Commercial Lorry.
The names themselves are a sufficient guarantee of excellence, and
they are certainly amongst the first that any motoring expert
will repeat if you ask him what are some of the leading makes
of cars in the world.
Come and see these before you do anything further about a new car.
SOLE AGENTS:
DALGETY & CO., Ltd
130-13<8 Philliji Street, Sydney.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 32.—N0. 1627.
THURSDAY, APRIL 20, 1911.
Prick 6d.
“NO THOROUGHFARE.”
The Constitution, as it stands, works all right until you want to go ahead ; and then you can’t go. — Acting Prime Mimster W. M. Hughes.
AUSTRALIA: “Seems to me I might almost as well not have bought the dashed car at all!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“ Australia for the White Man.’ 1
Printed and published by ’William Macleod,
of Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mos-
man, for The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
Ltd., at the Office of the Co., 214 George-
street North, Sydney, N. S. Wales, Aus-
tralia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES: Business, 1384 Central.
Editorial, 257 City.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Per Annum .. .. f 1 6 0
Half-yearly .. .. .. 0 13 G
Quarterly .. .. .. 0 7 0
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin
posted regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communica-
tions to be addressed to William Macleod, Manag-
ing Director.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the
paper (and, to an extent, themselves ) by taking
some care as to methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, ad-
vertisements, etc.) should in no case be addressed to
the Editor, but to the Manager. To send them to
the Editor is to invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters
to anyone by name. “The Editor, The Bulletin,” is
the proper superscription for “copy.” Delay, and
even loss, is sometimes caused by addressing to per-
sons instead of officials. The person may not be
therej the official always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” col-
umn all contributions submitted, whether in the
form of Political, Social or other Articles, Verse,
Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 8000 words, are specially accept-
able), Paragraphs, Letters or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS.
when the address is specified and stamps are en-
closed. But no MS. will be returned, or preserved,
unless these conditions are observed. When MS. is
forwarded without stamps for return it will be un-
derstood that the cof>y is to be destroyed if not ac-
ceptable. Personal applications for return of MS.
cannot receive attention. The Bulletin desires,
further, those sending MS. to distinctly understand
that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea,
but unfitted for direct reproduction—-i.e., any pic-
ture which has to be re-drawn- —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
The Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on
account of Messrs. Gordon and Gotcli (wholesale
agents) to Victoria, West Australia, Queensland,
Tasmania and New Zealand; and on account of
Messrs. Atkinson and Co. and Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide
—at 1/6 per doz. nett.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British
Australasian Office, 118 High Ilolborn, London,
W.C.
South Africa.— The Central News Agency, Cape-
town; Dawson and Son, Capetown; The Central
News Agency, Durban, Natal; and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver
8.C.; Irvine and Forsyth, 1/1(1 Hastings Street;
Norman, Caple and Co., Stationers.
U.S.A.- —Isserlis A., Seattle, Washington; Inter-
national News Agency, Los Angeles; Chicago News-
paper Agency, 110 Madison Street, Chicago.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port
Said.
Hong Kong.— Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Singapore. — Messrs. John Little and Co.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size
11% in. x 11/in., will be forwarded on application.
Larger sizes can be supplied if desired.
THURSDAY, APRIL 20, 1911.
AN APPEAL TO THE NATION’S
HORSE-SENSE.
Next Wednesday’s polling will do some-
thing else besides settle whether the National
Parliament is to straggle along bereft of
powers which the meanest provincial assem-
blies possess; it will act as a supreme test of
the political intelligence of Australia.
Never has the party which represents the
cause of Vested Interests lied harder or
more audaciously. Prom the very begin-
ning, when a Sydney M.P., speaking with
all the elaborate gloom of one in the presence
of a Great Horror, laboriously enumerated
122 different functions which, he alleged,
would be “stolen” from the States by an
affirmative vote, the campaign has been a
steady appeal to ignorance and prejudice.
No discreditable dodge for snaring the votes
of the uninstructed has been neglected. _ Ihe
“Liberal” dailies have, with matchless impu-
dence, counselled their worker-readers to
vote “No, twice” on the incredible grounds
that if the amendments asked for by the La-
bor Government are carried, there will be a
slump in wages —which is something equiva-
lent to the spider warning the fly of the
frightful cold lie will get if he doesn t throw
the web around his shoulders. _ W hile Vic-
torian “Liberalism” has been insisring that
the defeat of the “Noes” will mean the
domination of Victoria by lass-Canberra,
NSW “Liberalism” has been urging with
equal zest that “Yes, Yes” will mean the fur-
tlier spoliation of the Mother State by Mel-
bourne. The Melbourne Age, a manufac-
turers’ paper, affects to see in the amend-
ments the ruin of the manufacturers; the
Sydney Telegraph, whose best customers
are interested in sugar, gas, coal and ferries,
scoffs at the fear of the Victorian, buc fore-
casts that the proposals, if carried, must ef-
fect the downfall of the altruistic vends in
N. S. Wales. If railway servants are given
a right of appeal to the Federal Arbitration
Court —a policy which was favored^ by both
Deakin and Cook six years ago —“Liberal-
ism” contends that the Australian I arlia-
ment will interfere with freights, fares, time-
tables, and other details of the State llail-
wavs in so asinine a fashion as to drive a
horrified oversea Cohen right out of the
money-lending business, so far as this country
is concerned. The absurd Yellow Pup, ever
enthusiastic in the cause of Anti-Australian-
ism, has laid it down that the powers asked
for by one of the few wholly Protestant Min-
istries that Australia has known are sought
with the object of gratifying Rome. And
the Australian Women’s National League,
of Collins-street, Melbourne, remarks, in a
widely distributed circular, that an affirma-
tive vote “not only paves the way, but
makes inevitable complete Socialism (.col-
lective ownership), involving the absolute
destruction of private ownership, the home
and individual liberty.”
* * « *
The advocates of the Referenda proposals
have been guiltless of insulting the intelli-
gence of the nation with stuff like that. I hey
have based their case on three plain proposi-
tions :
(1) That certain Federal legislation is urgently
TCJ (2) <( 'That without the amendments asked for• the
urgently required legislation can never be achieved.
(3) That the granting of the amendments cannot
cause the various disasters that are prophesied unless
a majority in both the Representatives and the
Senate goes completely mad.
Among the things that are needed at once,
nut cannot be attained with the Constitution
in its present imperfect state, are:
(1) The New Protection.
(2) An extension of the powers of the federal
Arbitration Court. ,
(3) Power to control monopolies when they ex-
ploit the public.
(4) The power to declare a Common Rule, so that
the unfair employer shall not get a trade advantage
over the fair employer.
The electors of the Commonwealth have
three times signified their approval of the
New Protection, an arrangement whereby
not only the manufacturer, but the wage-
earner and consumer as well, shall be pro-
tected. Some of Australia’s bitterest Anti-
Laborites have been impelled to publicly de-
clare in favor of it. The same people agree,
as a matter of abstract principle, that rail-
way employees who consider themselves in-
dustrially wronged should have as much
right to appeal to the Federal Arbitration
Court as any other employees. They would,
they say, give the Government power to put
these needed reforms in the Statute Book,
did they not fear the Trade and Commerce
Clause —the calamitous circumstance which
(allegedly) is going to bring about “the
overturning of the businesses ot Sydney bottle
accumulators” and other petty traders of
the sort. The Government says that these
latter fears are utterly groundless, for these
reasons: —
(a) The Trade and Commerce Clause will not
give Parliament power to interfere with the details
of trades, vide. the Privy Council’s decision in the
famous Canadian case on this subject, and the High
Court’s more recent judgment here; '
(b) That, even if the National Parliament had
power to meddle with the business of hawkers, ped-
lars and so forth, it might be relied on not to do so;
(c) That, lacking the Trade and Commerce Clause
amendment, neither the New Protection nor the
Common Rule can become operative.
The type of Victorian whose views are
voiced by the Melbourne Age is hostile to the
New Protection, for obvious reasons. He
is largely a manufacturer, and wants all the
financial benefit of the existing tariff, with-
out sharing any of it with his employees.
On the other hand, he approves of the fea-
ture of the Referenda proposals which pro-
vide for Federal control of monopolies. And
few of him owns the requisite nerve to pub-
licly challenge the justice of _ the Common
Rule principle. So the position is that,
for purely selfish reasons, numbers of ‘Lib-
erals” are opposing legislation which various
sections of them admit to be beneficial. But,
in trying to get others to follow them, they
do not tell the truth about their selfishness.
Rather, they rely on one thing, and one
thing only—that various dreadful things
may happen if tne National Parliament is
given the desired power, and then goes mad
and authorises the dreadful things to be
done. What the “Liberals” don’t point out
is that the State Parliaments. now possess
all the powers which the National Parlia-
ment asks for; and, as it is just as likely
that the State Parliaments will do the mad
things as that the National Parliament will
do them, there is no more danger in trans-
ferring the powers than in leaving them
where they are.
* * * *
These things are plain enough to profes-
sional students of politics. But, unfortu-
nately, the average citizen studies politics
in only a cursory fashion. And therein lies
the brightest hope of Vested Interests. The
•Liberal” party press and party leaders who,
for the past two months, have. been campaign-
ing on the assumption that it is possible to
humbug hordes of Democrats into voting the
Tory ticket, have a bad, not to say rotten,
record in this line. They are the wlio
attempted to foist Reid’s ridiculous Tiger
on a derisive people ; who boomed the Dread-
nought foolishness as a pretext for side-
stepping local defence: who engineered the
jy use and who went down with a thud in
each instance. The trouble with these
swindles was that they were not subtle
enough. Something more complicated was
required to hoodwink a people which has en-
joyed free and compulsory education for a
quarter of a century. To a certain extent
the Referenda issue supplied the needed
goods. In the nature of things, it was
capable of being clouded in a mesh of legal
jargon ; and “Liberalism” has clouded it in
that manner for all the party writers and
orators were worth. The layman is prone
to imagine that the Law is loaded, and his
weakness has been played on assiduously.
Every Anti-Labor lawyer has insisted loudly
that the amendments asked for by the Gov-
ernment, even where they are admittedly
sound in principle, are charged to the muzzle
with appalling dangers, understandable only
by those who have formally qualified to pur-
sue Costs. The legal authorities, who are
also Nationalists, have repeatedly given this
contention the lie; but since they are few,
and Australia is vast, they have been as
voices arguing faintly in a wilderness of
Gentlemen One. The Government has no
daily paper to voice its sentiments in the
places where assistance of the sort is most
needed ; and many thousands of electors have
not heard the case for the Referenda put
from any platform. In the last resort they
will have to arrive at a decision by bringing
their liorse-sense to bear on the arguments.
And really the task is not difficult; for, after
all, the whole matter lies in a small com-
pass. Some months ago a Labor Govern-
ment was returned by a vast majority to
do certain things. It has tried to do those
things, and it finds the way blocked. There-
fore it lias a claim now on every man who
voted for it last year. It was told to do
certain things; it says it hasn’t the neces-
sary material, and it asks for a supply. If
the Labor party is to have a chance to do
what it was told to do, its supporters must
vote “Yes, Yes.” And while there is this
special claim on the Labor party, there is a
large, general claim upon every Australian.
Shall the Australian sentiment prevail, or
shall provincialism rule? The cloud of ar-
gument should not be allowed for one mo-
ment to hide that issue. By keeping that
steadily in view, and voting “Yes, Yes,” the
people of Australia will not only give their
National Parliament powers which it should
have had 10 years ago, but they will also
hand themselves a valuable testimony for
perception and independent judgment.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Deakin’s Advice to S’Africa.
Three years ago S’Africa, which was then
busy in the workshop, forging a Constitu-
tion for itself, asked Australia, as a me-
chanic of experience, for some advice touch-
ing the construction of its new machine.
Deakin —as the Commonwealth’s foreman
or boss engineer—affably agreed to supply
the goods, and accordingly had prepared an
official memorandum, dated August 11.
1908; and presently, as Prime Minister and
Minister for External Affairs, he sent it oil
to S’Africa, loaded with the following pas-
sage :
So far, the powers of the Commonwealth Parlia-
ment have, on the whole, proved to be adequate.
Attention mav, however, be directed to a few points
in which Australian (and so far as it is applicable,
American) experience has shown difficulties and weak-
ness.
(a) The specific powers should be defined in
words as general as possible, avoiding, as far as
possible, all conditions, exceptions and limitations,
e.g., “Trade and Commerce with other countries, and
among the States.” The limitation of Inter-State
trade and external commerce bisects the subject of
trade and commerce, and makes a hard _ and fast
division of jurisdiction, of which it is difficult to
determine the boundaries, and which does not cor-
respond with any natural distinction in the con-
duct of business. It would be more satisfactory,
IF POSSIBLE, TO TAKE TOWEtt OVER “TRADE AND
Commerce” generally.
Groom — Deaicin’s Attorney-General —en-
dorsed the memorandum enthusiastically : —-
I have carefully perused the memorandum pre-
pared by Mr. Garran during my absence in Queens-
land, AID, I FULLY AGREE WITH THE VIEWS EX-
PRESSED.
Now, the question which Deakin and
Groom ought to answer is whether they
were misleading S’Africa then in telling it
to take power, if it could, over “Trade and
Commerce generally,” or whether they are
misleading Australia now in advising it not
to take power, when it can, over the same
subjects.
«.
The Rotten Buttresses of a Weak Case.
Melbourne Age recently cited some alleged
results of a “Yes” vote to the Referenda
questions, as follows :
Farmers would not only be bound down by strict
conditions with regard to wages paid to farm hands,
but the Parliament would decide the maximum
number of cows a man should be called upon to
milk, the quantity of potatoes he should dig, or the
fruit he should gather in a day, and whether it was
the man’s or the employer’s duty to wash the milk-
ing utensils or water the stock..
This is as grotesque as it would be if it
were contended that the N.S.W. Government
must not permit llackenschmidt to ride on
its tram-cars, on the grounds that be
“ would, ” break the conductor’s ne«k if a
fare were demanded from him. And it IS , as
insane as it would be if a British Prime
Minister were urged to keep George V. un-
der lock and key, because, under the Prerog-
ative, he holds certain powers which lie
would be accordingly certain to exercise.
“It would very much surprise people,” says
Walter Bageiiot, in a sentence that has
become classical, “if they were only told how
many things the Queen (Victoria) could
do without consulting Parliament.”
Not to mention other things, she could disband the
armv • . she could dismiss all the officers, from
the General Commanding-in-Chief downwards; she
could dismiss all the sailors too; she could sell oft
our ships of war and all our naval stores , she could
make a Deace by the sacrifice of Cornwall, and begin
a war for the conquest of Brittany ; she could make
every citizen in the United Kingdom, male or female,
a Peer* . . • she could pardon all offenders. In a
word, the Queen could upset all the action of civil
government. .
Queen Victoria did none of these things, tor
the simple reason that she was possessed ot
Common Sense. The position has not al-
tered in any material degree since Bagehot s
day ■ and we may therefore wait' till King
George V. exercises the undoubted power
of his Prerogative by handing over Tasmania
and Maoriland to Japan, and making a
present of Scotland to the Kaiser, before
(in the words of Melbourne Age) we begin
to “think of the Federal Parliament looking
into every hamlet, every factory, shop,
shearing-shed, stock-yard, mine, farm, sta-
tion, orchard, piggery—every conceivable
place in which a man or woman may be em-
ployed—and solemnly dictating the hours,
the pay, the duration of smoke on, and
whether a man’s time begins when he
wakes up or when he arrives on the 30b.
All Liberalism’s objections to the Referenda
uroposals stand broad-based on this same
imbecile assumption that, • if the National
Parliament is not securely chained down like
a wild animal, it not only may, but must, un-
necessarily harass the Rectors, ruin their
businesses, and generally behave like a
lunatic. The National party claims that the
Australian Parliament —elected as it is on
an adult suffrage basis —is to be trusted to
use such powers as it is accorded in a rea-
sonable fashion ;—as reasonably, for example,
as any sovereign of German extraction who
ever reigned in Britain. Allow that, and
the barrackers for Iteaction haven’t a leg to
stand on.
♦ —■
State Rights and a Few Combines.
When Bigjohn Forrest, in the debate on the
Referenda proposals in the Federal House of
Reps., said he thought the States could deal
with trusts, and Irvine, K.C., assured him
that they couldn’t, the “No-No” papers kept
as still as mice, and never elaborated the
point. Meanwhile Bruce Smith, Cook
and Co. dodged the difficulty by strenuously
denying that trusts or combines exist in
Australia. The facts, of course, are against
them. There are already three glaring in-
stances of the genuine and undoubted trust,
viz., (1) the tobacco combine, (2) the ship-
ping combine, and (3) the coal vend.
These have abolished political economy, and
have locked up the law of supply and de-
mand in their city offices. In addition to
these, there are many lines in which the
big handlers fix prices by an arrangement or
horrible understanding. Of these meat,
jam, bricks, timber, flour, bread and furni-
ture are good instances. Sugar is a mon-
opoly outright. The farmer who is being
scared into voting “No” by horrible visions
of Socialism, is affected by two combines—
(l) agricultural machinery, and (2) fertil-
iser, both of which have triumphed over the
law of supply and demand, and are able to
decide what he must pay. The poor are
affected by the world-wide Rockefeller
monopoly of kerosene oil, by the still more
recent 7A per cent, clapped on furniture, by
a marvellous unanimity among the manu-
facturers of jam (quite accidental, of
course), and by certain transactions in re-
gard to exportation of butter which have
sent up the price of that. species of fat.
The man who denies the existence of trusts
in Australia must be either a wilful liar or
an ostrich; and if what Irvine, K.C., told
Bigjohn Forrest in the Federal House of
Reps, is true, and the States cannot deal
effectively with these trusts, then the choice
at the Referenda poll is plainly whether the
people of Australia, through the Australian
Parliament, shall control trusts, or whether
the trusts shall control the people.
A Scheme to Avoid Unnecessary Costs.
The following is a Referendum section
which causes Melbourne Argus and b. M.
Herald to see the same bright shade of
red :
When each House of the Parliament in the same
session has by resolution declared that an industry
... is the subject of a monopoly, the Parliament
shall have power to make laws for the carrying on
the business . . . and acquiring for that purpose,
on just terms, any property used in connection- with
the industry or business.
The villainy of this suggestion, according to
the Bloated press, is that Parliament should
seek to arrogate to itself the right say
what is or what is not a monopoly. Are
our Judges not to be trusted'V” howls the
Argus ; and “A fresh insult to the High
Court!” cries the Herald. Of course the
proposal amounts to nothing of the sort. It
the High Court Judges could, in their ca-
pacity as common-sense men of the world,
identify or repudiate an alleged monopoly,
and do it unhampered by any legal side-
issues, the country would be perfectly willing
to accept their dicta. However, they can t;
and till the British law alters its entire char-
acter, they never will. An instance of the
hopelessness of leaving this sort of problem
to be resolved by the Bench was afforded in
the mighty struggle that raged round the
definition of “a place/’ Tears ago an Act
was passed which forbade the using of a
place” for betting. In due course the Law
began prosecuting bettors under this Act.
And then the Judges started to tell an an-
xious army of gamblers just what ‘‘a place
was. They decided that a movable box
within a ring on a racecourse was ‘‘a place ,
on the other hand, the habitual use for bet-
ting purposes of a spot in a public park was
not “a place.” A stool covered by an um-
brella was “a place”; take away the um-
brella, and it might not be a place. An en-
closed field, hired by a committee for the pur-
pose of holding dog-races, was not “a place ;
but a cricket-ground was. If a bookmaker
walked about a ring making bets the ring
was not “a place” i if he stood still it was.
And so on ad infinitum. The Costs in con-
nection with these various decisions
amounted to tens of thousands of pounds,
and, to-day, the bettor is no more sure when
he is or is not wagering in ‘‘a place,” than
he was 15 years ago, and, in despair, the
British Wowser has abandoned the elusive
job of pinning him down. It is with the ob-
ject of avoiding such trouble that the Aus-
tralian Government has asked the electors to
A Soliloquy.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Australia Reasons with llersclf after Hear-
ing the Confusion Orators.
Fat sitteth on my brisket heavily;
Tlie anointed waistcoat of liis holy girth
Is stretched almost to bursting. Woe is me.
I dare not prick his vast rotundity
With the sharp dagger of a little “Yes,
For that would surely ease me of his weight,
And being eased, who knows what I might
dd? .
Might I not even sit upon myself
More heavily than him that sitteth on mo'
How shall I choose? Shall I deny myself
The right to move a finger or a toe
Lest that my toe do injury to me,
Or that my finger work me violence !
Lo! I am sore affrighted of my toe,
And of my moving finger terrified!
Were it not better rather to remain
A cushion for the hallowed rest of Fat .•
To be or not to be? That is the question.
lam not, if Fat is. But there’s the rub;
Shall I be I if with my little “Yes”
1 give myself what now belongs to me,
But which without that gift I cannot use?
Now am I I, but shall I still be I,
Altering the constitution of myself,
And taking certain of my rights from me?
I am as puzzled as a piece of string
Tied in twelve knots — but I am voting
“YES!”
N.S.W.
PAT O'MAORI.


say on the 26th that Parliament, and not a
Law Court, shall determine what are mon-
opolies.
The Union of the Churches and Another
Matter.
Eves since Lutiieb erupted in Germany
there has been a steady multiplication o
more or less virulent sects. Lach in turn
claimed that it had the proper religious
goods to sell; and for several centuries a
most holy racket was made by the hucksters
who shouted their wares one against another.
Every now and again one of the beatified
would collar a stray heretic and dip him in
boiling oil for the good of his soul and the
glory of religion. Sometimes a sacred not
ensued, and throats were freely cut through
out the length and breadth of. Europe oyer
the meaning of a word or the interpretation
of a phrase. Hates, spites, malice and all
bitterness had the time of their lives ; and
the energy of bitterness only slackened when
modern Democracy took a hand in politics,
and the public demand for something to eat
drowned the roar of the warring saints who
fought like devils for the hope of Heaven and
the love of peace on earth. Gradually as
the main religious uproar subsided, some
sanely religious people began . to look into
the causes of the turmoil, and discovered that
the difference between the heretic who had
been boiled in oil, and the saint who had
done the boiling, was rather less than that
between Tweedledum and Tweedledee. A
faint mention was then made of the fact
that church union might be a pleasant and
comely thing, and that, as saints were be-
coming scarcer and scarcer, and showers of
blessing few and far between, it might be
good to join forces, and see if such
a junction would have any beneficial effect
on the flow of threepenny bits, and the “ad-
vancement of the cause.” Already some
progress has been made, and there are now
practically none who deny that, so far at
least as the Protestant churches are con-
cerned, more and more union would be a
good thing, and should be striven for. But
a number of religious bodies who hold one
great ethical idea in common still find a stu-
pendous difficulty in uniting to give practical
shape to that idea. Each section or coterie,
convinced of the absolute rightness of its
own position—or, at any rate, obstinately
prejudiced against admitting itself to be in
the wrong—has been unwilling to yield a
point to . its rival; and instead of a
vast organisation which might at least have
commanded the respect and reverence of the
world, there is a jumble of raging factions,
shouting the watchwords of their own paltry
separatism, amid the tears of the better
brand of saints, and the derision of the mul-
titude of sinners. Some years ago another
great ethical idea came to a people, addicted
to horses, cricket and home-made poetry,
whose scattered homes lay between the In-
dian and the Pacific oceans. The name of
the idea was Australia. Eagerly they sought
to give reality to their conception, to make
it a practical, living force that should lift
them to a higher plane. The movement
promised well; some progress has indeed
been made with it. But now when it is
proposed to carry it on, it is discovered
that the community, in this matter too, has
split into sects and factions. Wrangling
up and down the land like raging Wowsers,
they tear their opponents with fearful words,
boil their competitors in evil-smelling oil
of invective, and, for love of their country,
curse their country’s children. Here an
Alfred Deakin rants, or a Bruce Smith
preaches fire and brimstone; there a Wade
or a Denham hurls abuse at an opponent.
Sometimes a Murray turns in his slumber,
muttering the verses of a damnatory psalm
as a charm against the horrible energy of
a Hughes ; at times an ill-balanced Hol-
man is converted, or a Beeby, driven crazy
by the din, turns apostate. It is the riot
of the reformed churches over again, only a
trifle more fantastic and absurd. And once
more the better brand of saints—the men
who are staunch to the great sentiment of a
United Australia —look on tearfully, while
the outsider views the ghastly struggle of the
little sectaries with derision. But it is no
use merely viewing the sectaries’ struggle
with derision. Derision will not count next
Wednesday, anywhere except at the ballot-
box. Then, by their votes and by their
votes alone, Australians are to say whether
the absurd racket shall continue on to the
crack of doom, or be squelched once and for
all, even as Mary concludes the cockroach
with the dainty sole of her slipper.
:
Capitalist and Worker in Australia.
“X” digs :
A few hard figures are here subjoined to worry
over. They are an attempt to show the relative
shares received by Capital and Labor from industry
in Australia, and are based on the Commonwealth
Statistician’s figures. They are inspired by a message
in the Argus (10/4/T1) :
“A recital of some of the results stated by Mr.
W. H. Mallock, the noted publicist, in his latest
work, will be interesting and instructive. They
have been arrived at by the most minute, painstak-
ing, and impartial investigation of all the facts as to
wages and incomes in the United Kingdom. He
entirelv dissipates the wild estimate made by social-
istic writers that for every £1,000,000 received
by employees the capitalistic employer receives more
than £3,000,000. The facts are that wages and
salaries in the United Kingdom amount to
£930,000,000 per annum, and business profits and
dividends to £200,000,000, so that the wages and
salaries of the employed class are four and a-half
times as great as the profits and dividends of the
employing class. Now, it is notorious that wages
and salaries in Australia are much 'FSd'er
on the average than those paid in the United
Kingdom , so oil the probabilities are that
the total bears an even larger proportion
to profits and dividends than prevail in the
Mother Country .. .The wage-earners get by far the
larger share of the results of production nine shares
out of every eleven, Max,lock calculates and by the
increase of production their wages may always be
increased.”
Anyone would conclude from this that figures
were not available in Australia. That is not so.
Elaborate statistics exist for those who care to look
for them. Whatever “all the probabilities” may
be, here are the facts regarding the condition
of manufacturing enterprise in Australia. The
figures are taken from G. H. Knibbs’s ‘ Production,
Bulletin No. 4 ; Summary of Commonwealth Pro-
duction Statistics for the years 1900 to 1909.
These figures reveal: —
(o) That the value added to goods in
process of manufacture in 1909 was £42,216,493
(6) That the value of raw material was £65,193,240
(e) That the value of land and build-
ings was .. •• •• •• £37,677,090
(d) That the value of plant and ma-
chinery was . • • • • • .
(e) Adding (5), (c) and (d) togther, the total capi-
tal invested, or held in manufacturing enter-
prises, in 1909, was:—
Material • •
Land, etc. . . 27,677,595
Plant etc . . 26,877,242
Plant, etc. _ £119,748,077
(7) That the value of fuel used was £2,227,505
( g ) That the value of salaries and
wages (including managers, clerks
and accountants) was .. • • £21,105,456
(h) That the number of employees (ex-
cluding working proprietors) was £254,/50
The average wage paid to employees (including
high-salaried managers, accountants, etc.) in 1909
was therefore £21,105,456, divided by 254,750; or
£B2 16s. Hid. per annum; otherwise, £1 11s. 10jd.
per week.
Let us see how the Capitalist gets on.
His investment is:—
Raw material .. . . • • £65,193,240
Land and buildings . . . 27,677,595
Plant and machinery .. .. 26,877,242
Total £119,748,077
Let us grant him a full profit. First, 5 p.c. on
what he paid for raw material. Then 5 p.c. on
the value of land and buildings. Then 5 p.c. on
the value of plant and machinery. Then 2i p.c.
depreciation on land and buildings (though the land
is generally appreciating in value faster than the
buildings depreciate). Then 5 p.c. depreciation on
plant and machinery. Then let us subtract the
cost of fuel. We come to the following results:—
Added value, or gross profits in
manufacture . . . . • • £42,216,493
Employees’ share .. .. •• £21,105,456
Capitalists’ share .. .. •• £21,111,037
Now, from this capitalists’ share we may make de-
ductions for fair profits. They are: —
Interest on value raw material .. £3,259,662
Interest on value land & buildings 1,383,879
Interest on value plant & machinery 1,343,862
Depreciation land & buildings, 24 p.c. 691,939
Depreciation, plant & machinery, 5 p.c. 1,343,862
Cost of fuel i. .. .. •• 2,227,505
Total £10,250,709
Here comes the last stage. We have found: —
Gross share of capitalist .. .. £21,111,037
Fair profit of capitalist (5 p.c. and
generous allowance for deprecia-
tion) 10,250,709
Difference .. .. .. £10,860,328
which difference of £10,860,328 represents the capi-
talists’ excess of profit over and above 5 p.c., with
depreciation allowances. Out of it he has only to
pay the cost of advertising and canvassing for cus-
tomers, and provide for bad debts and contingencies.
If 10s. per week were to be added to the pay of
every one of the 254,750 employees, it would cost
£127,375 per week, or £6,623,500 a year. This
would still leave the capitalist with £4,236,828
more than his 5 p.c. (with generous allowances for
depreciation) ; and the appearances are that, with a
return of 5 p.c. and another 4j millions of pounds
to play with, the distressed capitalist would not do
so very badly in Australia.
♦
Mutiny, and the Need of Stamping It Out.
Whatever the result of the Referenda, there
is a large and very unpleasant job in front
of the Labor party in Australia. That is
to deal firmly with the mutineers who, di-
rectly or indirectly, have been doing their
best to scuttle the ship which was built to
carry a valuable load of Australian aspira-
tion to a safe anchorage. There is no es-
cape from the job, however unpleasant it
may be. It is imperative, if the party aims
are' to be accomplished, or, indeed, if the
party is to survive. Out of the woe and op-
pression of all the lost years—away back
before the lash resounded along the building
of the ramparts of Nineveh; before the trad-
ing boats of Solomon took shape on the
stocks, and the workshops of Sidon moved
with toil and sweat and blood; back to the
first day that the first man hired his labor,
the world has been creeping towards Better
Things. Within the past 10 years the pro-
gress has been remarkable —and remarkable
not only by comparison. The organisation of
Labor, made the easier and surer by the. rapid
growth of the Australian national spirit, has
cleared the way for the removal of the
greater part of the lumber of evil systems
and established injustices; and the contract
for carrying on the job has been given to
the party that made it possible. The party
soon realised that, in order to keep going,
it must either abolish the House wherein
Property and Privilege were specially repre-
sented, or give the work to a Parliament
which did not include any such House,
Again and again progressive measures had
been passed in the State Chamber elected by
the people, only to be emasculated or thrown
out altogether by the Chamber representing
Propertv and Vested Interests. For nearly
20 years the Labor party has struggled to
make these Upper Houses democratic, and
has made practically no progress. For this
reason, among others, it decided at length to
extend the functions of that Parliament
which has no House of Property and Privi-
lege. So the Referenda proposals were de-
vised by the Labor Government, and endorsed
by the' Labor Conference —a Conference to
which every man in the party (and it has
to be insisted upon that there is only one La-
bor party) is pledged. What, then, is the
position of those renegades who, by open
avowal, damning silence, or secret intrigue,
have done and are doing their utmost to de-
feat the plans of the party? If the demands
revolted them, they were at perfect liberty to
step out of the line ; but to march to the front
denouncing the standard as they go, and
stirring a mutiny in the ranks, must be met
with one of two results. Either the army
must turn upon itself, or the false bearers
must be put in their proper place, which is
outside the party. There they may still
do the party some damage; but, in their
proper place, they will be recognised as op-
ponents, and fought, whereas now, being dis-
guised as leaders, they do vasily . more
damage, because they are liable to be fol-
lowed.
Optimism for the Prevention of Harbor
Collisions.
“Billy B.”: It is amazing the amount of
optimism you can squeeze out of the Sydney
Ferry cos. Squeeze is not the word —op-
timism bubbles from them. The eternal
chance of accident, the law of average, the
disastrous haphazard habits of Fate _ or
Providence, or the Devil, the risk of vigi-
lance slackened for a moment, the snap of
a steering chain, the break of an engine rod
at the very moment it is required to be in
the pink of condition —none of these things
are allowed to cloud a ferry co.’s cheerful
outlook. Accidents may happen in some
parts of the world, and in several businesses
—but not, not in Sydney Cove to a ferry
steamer. The ferryman asks you pityingly:
“Has anything serious happened to a pas-
senger ferry yet? No? Very well; then
nothing will happen.” The other day, when it
was announced that the Government proposed
to commence a State ferry service between
Sydney City and the North Shore, Acting
Chief-Secretary Floweks gave as one rea-
son for the innovation that if a disaster oc-
curred, owing to the present dangerous con-
gestion in Sydney Cove, the Government, hav-
ing been warned of the risk of accident by
its officers, would be morally responsible.
The attention of one of the ferry managers
having been drawn to the statement, he
passed along the usual remarks: —
For the last 10 years some one or other has been
continually crying out about “imminent disaster.”
Have there been any terrible disasters ? Why, no!
For an hour I have been endeavoring to call to mind
a case where a ferry-boat was responsible for the
death of a person in Sydney Cove, but for the life of
me I cannot.
The same old remarks as were made to the
Daily Telegkapii some years ago, when
even that apostle of Private Enterprise had
a scare over the possibilities roaming about
the Cove, crowded as it was and is with ferries
and launches and lighters and colliers and
big steamers, day and night, fine weather
or gale, clear night or dense fog; the same
old “Don’t worry” logic as the manager for
the Sydney Ferries dumped before the Royal
Commission on Communication between Syd-
ney and North Sydney a couple of years
ago; the same old “Don’t be cowards” gibe
as was flung at the passengers of the Iro-
quois by the captain, who thereby induced
them to come aboard and be drowned. “We
have heard,” said one of the Commission,
“of narrow escapes from accidents, owing to
the crowded state of Sydney Cove?” An-
swered the Optimist:—
Yes, so have I. I have heard of narrow escapes at
times when I have been on board. Some timid pas-
sengers were afraid their lives were in imminent
danger when the vesssls were 40ft. apart. There can
be no risk when vessels are running parallel. The
vessels are always under control.
Then the manager told the Commission that
the companies could handle more than five
times the passenger traffic at that time
(1908) moving in and out, and, if necessary,
three steamers could be run between Circular
Quay and Milson’s Point. Yet, between
February 6 and May 0 of that very year,
there had been eight minor accidents in or
about the Cove. But probably the most
remarkable instance of the amazing optim-
ism of the cos., and their managers, was a
forecast of what would happen in the event
of a collision. The manager explained that,
although his directors were not bound to
supply more than two bulkheads on each
boat, they had put in five, in order to
minimise the risk of any vessel foundering
in case of a collision. Therefore, said he :
If a vessel were cut through at the hull she would
float; and seeing that there are always two Or three
vessels within two minutes of each other, you would
have another boat alongside within two or three
minutes. . . . Another steamer could come right
alongside, so that passengers could step across with-
out difficulty
r lhere you have the whole solution —no trou-
ble, no delay; all adequate provision made
to arrest disaster at the first shriek. It is
a beautiful scheme, and the Optimist forgot
to mention that the small deck hand would
be stationed on the gunwale of the sinking
ferry, to hand the ladies aboard the rescuer,
while the captain sang comic songs to amuse
the children. Still spea,king for myself only, I
hope that, pending the building of the bridge
or subway, directions have been given that
the entertainment shall not take place in
midstream on a dirty winter night; and,
anyway, I want a good place clear of the
crash and sheer of the assaulting vessel, and
I’m hoping the co. will arrange for the 800
rr 1000 passengers to keep their heads. Then
I may have a chance to get ashore. Other-
wise, I’ve got my doubts.
Let us “ "Wowse! ”
“0.K.”: Sydney discussed the word
“Wowser” some time ago, and now they are
wrangling about it in Melbourne. The unco
godly, who can distinguish between harmless
and deadly ridicule, seem to be smelling dan-
ger in the new word. It is illuminative to the
youthful mind. It excites contempt rather
than dislike. The hard-faced man, with the
monkey shave and a Nonconformist con-
science, who didn’t object to be called a
killjoy, is evidently indisposed to have
“Wowser” stencilled on himself. I have
heard of a young lady who, whilst pleading
guilty to the fact that her father was a Wes-
leyan clergyman, protested that he was “not
a ‘Wowser.’ ” There is only one recorded
instance thus far of a man standing on a
platform to proclaim himself a “Wowser,”
and pat himself on the back for saying it. He
was the painful exception that proves the
rule, and probably his name was Judkins. At
a recent beer-trade gathering in Melbourne,
one of the speakers defined a “Wowser” as
“a hypocrite —one who is in the religious
business for place and pay ; one who seeks
notoriety.” This will never be adopted by
lexicographers, seeing that religion is the
business of all parsons, and place and
pay are legitimate considerations. No;
a “Wowser,” male or female, is one who
affects to regard common human indiscre-
tions with superhuman horror, especially
where “sexuality” is concerned. The “Wow-
ser” professes shocked astonishment at things
which everybody else does, and which he
himself would do if he hadn’t cut himself off
from temptation. A man may be an ardent
Rechabite and non-smoker, a moderate Sab-
batarian, and even an opponent of some
sorts of popular entertainment, and not
“Wowse.” But when he snorts like a hur-
ricane at the mere notion of a girl wanting
to meet a boy after dark, and speaks of “im-
morality” and “impurity” with exaggerated
indignation, he’s a “Wowser.” “Wow” is a
dictionary word. It’s an interjection, a
cry of astonishment, an exclamation of won-
der. And a “Wowser” is a professor of
false wonderment. He shrieks at “vice” as
though it were unnatural, whereas nothing
on earth is really unnatural, save “Wowser-
ism.” The grimmest Puritanism can be
accounted for. The stupidest intolerance of
comparatively youthful pleasures may be
fairly due to the blind egotism of old age.
But no excuse is possible for the person who
looks through the keyhole of a locked door,
as it were, and then tells the members of
his congregation that they would faint with
horror if he told them what he saw. He’s
a false purist, an apostle of prudery, a
common wowser.
- <►
The High Standard of State Administration.
Acting-Judge Edmunds, who lately probed
the peculiar methods of the N. S. Wales
Fire Brigades Board, thoroughly justified
the inquiry by exposing a series of what
the daily press calls '‘irregularities.” The
reoort shows that salvage money was at
different times spent on cigars and drinks
for the members, theatre and Dinner par-
ties, and motor-cars which were of little
public use, but frequently came in handy for
private pleasure trips. Also —
The members of the Board were not content with
the reasonable allowance provided, and in the fol-
lowing instances so manipulated the matter of the
allowance as to make gains which the Board’s own
resolution regarding travelling allowances did not
justify:—Mr. W. Taylor, M.L.A., a member of the
Board, on March 16, 1910, received £1 Os. 9d. as
travelling expenses for his train fare to Newcastle
and Maitland; and on June 2, 1910, £7 for return
railway fare and sleeping berths, Sydney to Mel-
bourne. In fact, Mr. Taylor had paid nothing in
this regard, for he was franked on his pass as a
member of Parliament.
Mr. W. Cracknell, a member of the Board, re-
ceived on March 16, 1910, £l, and on June 30,
1910, £3 os. for travelling expenses. Mr. Crack-
nell was not “away over-night” on either of these
occasions, and consequently was not entitled to pay-
ment for travelling expenses under the resolution
previously quoted.
It should also be mentioned that the members of
the Board charged a day’s travelling expenses for the
night of leaving Sydney as well as the morning of
return —usually 6 to 7 a.m.
Taylor subsequently refunded the money,
and the Commissioner advised Cracknell
to do the same. The secretary received
i5O 10s. for the purchase of a season rail-
way ticket, but U ung on to the money and
paid as he went, taking the chance of loss
or gain on the deal. lie also refunded.
Further, certain members “shouted” them-
selves walking boots at the Board’s ex-
pense, and one received from the funds an
ordinary suit of clothes, in lieu of a uniform
that ne claimed as captain of a volunteer
fire brigade. Either Taylor, Liberal
M.L.a. for St. George (Cabbutiiers’s old
seat), or his committee, was allowed to
hire two motor-cars from the Board on the
last State election day, for electioneering
purposes, and, while the Commissioner
agrees that the price paid was reasonable,
he strongly condemns the arrangement. In
view of all the disclosures, the Commis-
sioner seems to have taken a very merciful
view when he suggested that “the public
exposure” and “the resulting humiliation ’
ought to meet the case, “provided that the
safeguard of an effective annual audit of the
Board’s accounts is established.” An an-
nual check may meet the case; but it is
quite clear that a low moral tone pervaded
the whole establishment, and that sort of
thing is likely to have results which can’t
be checked by a person who is merely to
deal with accounts. A larger question is
also raised by the discovery of these abuses.
The State subsidises dozens of institutions
besides the Fire Brigades Board; and it
wmuld seem to be a fair thing to provide
that, in the future, there shall be no such
subsidy for any purpose whatever unless
the right is reserved to the Audit Office to
overhaul the accounts and ascertain whether
the people’s money is spent as it is supposed
to be.
♦
Alfred Deakin made a mess of things at
Bendigo a few days ago, by touting for the
Irish Home Rule vote for the “No’ side in
the Referenda. He said :
The Irishman out of Ireland was going to take
away from these States of Australia the very power
that the Irishman in Ireland was striving for, and
had been striving for for over half a century.
The statement was received with derisive
yells. Probably the audience remembered
one thing. If it fractures the Home Rule
principle to add two or three small powers
to those already possessed by the Common-
wealth, what sort of fracture was it
when the original two or three thou-
sand powers were taken from the States
and given to the Commonwealth? Yet
Deakin was one of the three men who ac-
tually drafted the Constitution, which took
away from the States those two or three
thousand powers. So Deakin is either
a most desperate enemy of the Home Rule
which he pretends to be so eager to pre-
serve, or his present remarks stamp him as
an insincere vote-catcher, who is prepared
to use almost any bait to hook his fish.
♦
Randolph Bedford on the gentle manners
of the monopolist, and the wisdom of hit-
ting him with a “Yes” :
The menace of these tremendous fortunes, so col-
ossal that their holders are at their wits end to find
new openings for the capital that is constantly in-
creasing! Standard Oil has eaten up all the drug-
stores in New York, and has increased the price of
pills and castor-oil; it bonded Childs s restaurants,
and now it has got the magazines. A political act pio-
bably helped the last move of the monopoly. Tapi
and the Postmaster-General are framing a Bill to
place a heavy postal tax on the advertising pages of
all magazines. In some of the concerns it is com-
puted to make a difference of £lO,OOO a year for
each The magazines have been fighting to the finish ,
and now comes the Trust. Pierpont Morgan and his
financial interests have bought up most of the muck-
raking magazines, also Harper’s publications and
Butt eric k’s, which include Everybody s and the
Adventure. The Crowell Co. has bought the Ameri-
can Magazine, which was started by Ida TarbelLj
Lincoln Steffens and others, who are reformers
or “muck-rakers,” just as you happen to be one of
the public or one of the Standard-oilers. Ida lar-
bell wrote the Standard Oil exposures. This not
only means that the reform magazines are silenced,
but it means spineless and witless fiction, and friends
of mine in New York say they don’t know where
artists and writers are going to land. The lrust
will have to have stories and pictures, but the com-
bine means agreement as to prices, absence of com-
petition and other rotten conditions. And Australia
will continue to take the dumped “remainders of
American magazines as of old, with the difference
that, whereas one has hitherto read of Rockefeller
as a cross of Judas Iscariot on Sapphira, he will
now read of him as a stained-glass cathedral-window
angel, with a halo like a cart-wheel. Again, why
have we not a decent copyright law and a duty on
American and English magazines of the non-educative
sort, and a prohibitive tax on Scraps and Dirty
Bits? Imagine a magazine-owner in Australia try-
ing to run his business at a profit while paying de-
cent prices to writers and artists, and with the op-
position of Rockefeller’s millions behind the Ameri-
can Magazine Trust.
The Orange Pup joined in the Referenda
campaign at Clontarf (N.S.W.) last week.
Of course the dreadful animal lined up in
the ranks of Anti-Australianism. Accord-
ing to the Sydney papers, “Mr. T. Henley
declared that Cardinal Moran wished to
transfer the State education system to the


Laxo-Tonic Pills
Are both laxative and tonic in action. They do
not gripe, but do their work quickly, effectively
and painlessly. Sold at 10|d. and Is. 6d.*
BEARD’S British - Built Bioscope,
second to none. Sole Agents—Jerdan’s
Ltd., 393 George Street, Sydney. Let us send
you particulars.*
lARRINGTONS LTD.,
The Cinematograph
Supply House.
The largest assortment of CINEMATOGRAPHS AND
FILMS always in stock by the World’s best makers.
If you want to procure a better supply of Films than
you are obtaining at present, get into communication
with us and state your requirements. Our Film
Library is the largest in the Commonwealth.
We are the people to give you satisfaction.
SYPNEY-MELBOURNE—BRISBANE—ADELAIDE.
OIL, ENGINES.
There is a Five Years’ Guarantee with every In-
vincible oil engine, and you can get duplicate parts
very promptly, because the works, the largest of the
kind in Australia, are at Woolwich Dock, Sydney.
Stationary and Portable oil engines are stocked
in great variety, adapted for every use. They may
be had either vertical or horizontal ; screen cooled,
hopper cooled or tank cooled. They are simple,
strong:, reliable and economical. They are abso-
lutely the best for running shearing plants, irriga-
tion pumps, chaff-cutters, saws, etc. We also
supply direct-coupled engines and pumps, and
engines and dynamos.
Absolute Reliability. Invincible Engines,
Invincible Motor Construction Co., Ltd.,
Works: Woolwich Dock, Sydney.
Showrooms: Sydney, 35 Pitt Street; Melbourne,
519 Little Collins Street; Adelaide: Bank Street.
Franz Josef
Lager Beer
SparKling',
Refreshing',
Exhilarating'
and Pure.
Franz Josef possesses the true Lager quality
and character, being sharp, clean, and of
light gravity.
Commonwealth,” and that “an affirmative
vote would be the means of him attaining
his object.” The dreadfully ignorant ’Enley
evidently doesn’t know r either that the Con-
stitution as it stands gives the Federal Par-
liament no power whatever to deal with edu-
cation, or that the increased powers which
the Australian Government is asking for are
concerned onlj' with (a) Trade and Com-
merce, and (o) Monopolies. Education in
Australia is not a monopoly, and it has no-
thing to do with trade or commerce, where-
fore the. fate of the Referenda is not going
to affect it, any more than it is likely to af-
fect ’Enley’s haspirates.
That accomplished exponent of the gospel
of Fat, Melbourne Argus, lately moaned at
great length “the Federal Ministry
has given all the shipbuilding work to Syd-
ney, and explained that the Private-Enter-
prise yards on the Yarra bank could do the
work just as well, and should have been
handed some of it. Doubtless these state-
ments are correct —though made by the
Argus —but that paper is unfortunate in
the time it has chosen to make them. They
would have looked much more effective if
heaved at the responsible parties when the
Bent Government and the Melbourne and
Geelong Harbor Trusts were sending abroad
for dredges and so forth. Furthermore,
they don’t square with the persistent de-
claration of the Argus that the Australian
is a poor, shiftless animal, who can’t
build" anything worth while, and that
only the foreigner can do these things
properly. Also, the Tory paper lias
always held Sydney up as a model
city, built on Freetrade, and has declared
repeatedly that Freetrade means prosperity
and plenty of work —and now it turns round
and says this was all bunkum, and that
Protectionist Melbourne can do things just
as well or better. It is all very confusing.
4.
The German Chancellor Hollweg clears
the air with regard to the cry for disarma-
ment. His view was recently expressed by
a caricaturist, who showed John Bull as
little Jack Horner, with half the globe
in his plate, and yelling because Germany
wants a little bit. There is to be disarma-
ment ; but England is to remain top dog.
That would suit us, but it does not suit Ger-
many. Whatever may be denied, it must
be admitted that Germany is hemmed in. It
is “Hands off!” in every direction. The
Monroe Doctrine covers all North and South
America. There is no outlet in Africa or
Asia. There is left Australia, and with it
just a danger that England may be driven to
barter away the Northern Territory for the
sake of peace, near home. That may seem
impossible; but Cavour gave away Nice,
Garibaldi’s birthplace, to Napoleon 111.
There is hypocrisy on the part both of Eng-
land and Germany; the thing is to strip
that off and ask—“ What could they fight
about?” It is no use deceiving ourselves on
that score. There are pretexts enough. One is
Antwerp. Germany seems determined to have
the whole of the Rhine, even to the outlets,
the principal of which are the Scheldt, with
Antwerp, and the Meuse, with Rotterdam.
Germany is hand-in-glove with Holland and
Belgium, and seems to be only waiting till'
England can be put in a hole. But why not
let Germany have its way in this? For
answer observe how neatly the es-
tuary of the Scheldt faces that of the
Thames. When Flanders was great, in the
15th century, the two were of about equal
importance. Then came the accursed Reli-
gious Wars, set off by the amiable Luther,
and Antwerp was virtually destroyed. At a
later period Holland actually blocked up the
Scheldt with sunken vessels, and Antwerp’s
traffic with the ocean was quashed. The
city did not properly spring up again till it
came under Bonaparte’s dominion. He
ranked it next to Paris, and spent two mil-
lions on it. It was to be his fulcrum against
England after the Boulogne idea had to be
given up. The plans he had about it are
the plans the German. Emperor has about it
to-day, and in this he has the backing of
Chancellor Hollwf.g and Admiral Tirpitz.
The sychophantic Age stupidly girds at
Labor men’s women-folk for being ordinarily well
dressed—“ Mrs. Fisher wore cr£pe-de-chine. Mrs.
O’Malley vieux rose foulard, Mrs. McDonald silk
voile, at a recent social function—what will the
farmers’ wives and struggling women throughout
the country think of this?” Well, they will
probably think that Mr. Fisher’s wife, or Mr.
McDonald’s, has just as much right to be well
dressed as the wife of the sweating manufacturer
or the rack-renting landlord.
The Adelaide Police Court the other day
listened to a charge laid by one man against
another of stealing his thunder—or, rather, his
lightning. Accused was a young engineer, who
ran a secret wire from his office to that of large
consumers next door, and tapped their supply.
He pleaded guilty, but hired a lawyer to argue
that it was merely a foolish trick. The P.M.
thought that it was, on the contrary, a very clever
one, and worth anything up to two years; but
apparently he considered that some consideration
was due to a pioneer, and so .made it merely a
small fine.
The “Dickens Stamp” was expounded by
Rosebery at a meeting held a few weeks ago at
the London Mansion House. Dickens left be-
tween £70,000 and £BO,OOO, of which £50,000 had
been made by readings. His family and depend-
ents were numerous, and mostly, it seems, poor
hands at business; so that, of 20 descendants
(three children and 17 grandchildren) none appear
to be well off. Some, in fact, are hard-up. Next
vear is the Dickens centenary; and Rosebery’s
idea—which has been adopted—is that every lover
of Dickens in Britain, America, Australia and
elsewhere shall then buy penny “ Dickens
stamps,” and put one in every volume of his they
possess. The money is to be invested to provide
against anything like distress among the des-
cendants. The stamps will, in due time, be on
sale in Australia.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Jack and the Beanstalk.”
Royal “ Our Miss Gibbs.’
Criterion “The Woman in the Case.”
Adelphi “ The Bad Girl of the Family.”
Glaciarium West’s Pictures.
Tivoli Rickards’ Vaudeville. Co.
Lyceum Spencer’s Pictures.
Prince Alfred Park.. Wirths’Circus.
Y.M.C.A. Hall The Royal Hawaiians.
Sports Ground Skuthorp’s Buck jumpers, etc.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMINU WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Merry Widow.”
Theatre Royal “ The Belle of Brittany."
Princess’s “ Paid in Full.”
Kino’s “ Risrht is Might.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
West’s Palace West’s Pictures'.
Glaciarium Tails’ Pictures.
Olympia Spencer’s Pictures
Lyric, Prahran Photo Plays.
♦
The Backbone of the Country has at-
tended at Her Majesty’s, Sydney, in great
numbers during the past week, to study the
way the Beanstalk grows. Besides learning
more things about giant vegetable-rearing
than any A., H. and I*. Society ever dreamed
of, the Backbone has had its ears soothed
with sweet melody, its laughter stirred by
masses of fruity, well-matured humor, and
its eyes delighted by some of the finest
Limbs in the Commonwealth.
** * *
The machinations of “The Woman in the
Case” continue to provide pleasing shocks
to patrons of Sydney Criterion. The
churches are observing her narrowly, and the
view spreads among those who Wowse that
Fitch intended her to symbolise either the
Scarlet Woman or the Apocalyptic Beast.
“Liberalism,” on the other hand, sees in her
the embodiment of free ferries, cheap sugar,
municipal gas, and a “Yes-Yes” to the Re-
ferenda questions—in a word, rampageous,
home-bursting Socialism. The diagnosis of
the Clarke-Meynell management is that the
lady is a money-spinner.
** * *
“Miss Gibbs” is whqre she has been these
last 250 days and nights, or thereabouts,
and this paper has no more remarks to make
on the monotonous subject. A musical
comedy so devoid of consideration for the
harassed fowl who is expected to lay a fresh
paragraph every week is no friend of the
Inky Way’s.
“PACK AND THE BEANSTALK."
1. Jack and the Beanstalk as grandfather
knew it.
2. Jack and the Beanstalk as little Georgie saw it.
3. No time for pantaloons.
Marlow’s great Bedroom drama is still
luring the multitude into the interior of the
£30,000 phoenix which has arisen from the
ruins of Sydney’s old Paddy’s Market. “See
the shop-girls’ dormitory, the greatest bed-
room scene ever staged,” shrieks the advt.;
and Billjim has been saying 'My oath !” in
large numbers. Whether Billjim doesn’t
expect to see more than he does see at the
Adelphi is another matter.
** * *
When this issue went to press the magnets
at Spencer’s Sydney picture-house, the Ly-
ceum, were Hamlet, Prince of Denmark;
Carbine, Prince of Horses; and Sydney,
Prince of Agricultural Shows. “Plamlet”
is a fine thing; the gloomy grandeur of the
royal revenge is driven right home to the
minds of the spectators. It is remarkable,
but all of the Shakspearian tragedies are so
adaptable to the cinematograph that one
would think they had been specially written
for it. On Monday, the 24th, the Theatre-
scope will replace “Hamlet” with “The
Fatal Wedding,” the play with which Mey-
nell and Gunn first made a splash in Aus-
tralia. It is a feariul fall; but the sover-
eign public must be allowed to go to the
Devil in its own inartistic way.
** * *
West’s Pictures, Ltd., now fill three
theatres in Sydney city: The Palace, the
Glaciarium, and the Bijou. They also show
“Hamlet,” as played in Elsinore, the scene
of the tragedy. But what the patrons of
West’s are lying back for is the great and
gorgeous production of “Henry VIII.,” as
played in His Majesty’s Theatre, London, by
Tree, Bourchier and Violet Vanbrugh—said
to have been the most gorgeous and costly
production ever put on the English or any
other stage. The series of pictures labelled
“Glorious Sydney” were a fine effort, and
whoever took them managed to glorify the
already beautiful city in a most artistic
manner.
Peggy Pryde, whose first appearance had
been delayed a week through illness, bustled
on to the stage of Sydney Tivoli on Satur-
day. As soon as the roar of welcome had
subsided, and she got to work, it was hard
to realise that eight years had passed since
her last turn. Time flies ; but tne brisk
little comedienne seems to have ignored the
rattle of his biplane, and gone on singing
and chattering to her audiences. R. A.
Roberts, the quick-changer, is billed to
change his eightrcharacter 'sketch, “Ringing
the Changes,” for a piratical story, entitled
“Cruel Coppinger,” on Saturday. t Conjurer
Leipzig, Tom Dawson and Miss Yetta, who
could dodge a mouse any day by taking to
her wire, are the other headliners of the pro-
gramme who will see the week out; but
Florence Challis, of the Old Bull and Bush,
and Concertina Prince are packing their
trunks.
** * *
The circus of Philippus Wirthus and
brothers, at Prince Alfred Park (Sydney),
is somewhat different from that managed by
the late Nero, one of the most sensational
showmen in the business during the time he
was lessee of the Circus Maximus (Rome).
Nowadays fights with wild animals are diffi-
cult to stage, owing to the shortage in ani-
mals, caused by their wholesale murder with
artillery by squads of sportsmen like the
Crown Prince of Germany and Ted Roose-
velt. The same with the old reliable draw
of torchlighting the ring with Christians.
The Maximus management could get Chris-
tians about seven for sixpence; but they’re
terrible hard to find these times. In fact,
Philippus has had to cut them off the bill even
in Maoriland. But, after all, frizzling Chris-
tian isn’t everything ; and probably there were
times when manager Nero would have gladly
swapped his great torchlight turn for the
Flying Jordans, or the Adeli Sisters’ wire
act, or Lizzie, the blood-sweating hippo, from
Darkest Africa, or Hamburg, or somewhere.
Anyhow, Philippus reckons his show is
more complete than the early Dago’s, and the
writer can only say that, as far as he re-
members, Philippus is right.
* # * #■
J. C. Williamson provides a histrionic
hot-cross bun in Eugene Walter’s domestic
drama, of American extraction, “Paid in
Full,” now assisting Melbourne Princess’s to
labor back into popular favor. “Paid in
Full” is an extremely clever play, with a
fundamental error, like a Campanile foutided
on pancakes. It is mainly the sad story of
one Joseph Brooks, collector in the employ
of the Latin-American Steamship Co., a
man who can’t go straight, and whose weak
efforts towards righteousness are hampered
by a pretty wife—fancy bred and fashion-
ably inclined —and a cheap billet. The first
impression we get of Joseph Cyril Mackay
Brooks is wholly favorable and sympa-
thetic ; he is polishing the family spoons, and
pushing the vacuum cleaner over the faded
carpet of his angular flat. Now, the man
who voluntarily assists his little wife to wipe
up, and to dust the. unhappy home after his
own day’s work is done, cannot be wholly
lost. But presently Joe bursts into bad
temper and invective; he 1 hurls socialistic
diatribes at the Latin-American Steamship
Co., which institution loads him with finan-
cial responsibilities, and systematically for-
gets to raise his pay; he becomes a Peter
Bowling of abusive declamation.
* * * *
We gather from bitter theatrical experi-
ence that the character addicted to rhetori-
cal display against property and corporations
is fit only for treason, spoils, and robbing
babes of the beer-money. According to this
rule of the stage, Joe Brooks naturally col-
lapses. He pinches the Latin-American S.S.
Co.’s capital to the tune of 16,000 dollars,
puts his wife into a. swell hotel, gives his
nagging mother-in-law the time.of her life,
and then —slump ! Captain Williams, who
is the Latin-American S.S. Co., has been
aware of the peculation from the first dime.
In fact, he has been luring Joseph to his
doom, and, at the critical moment, comes
down on his victim like a howling gale. Capt.
Williams is sweet on Mrs. Brooks, and Joe’s
infamy culminates in the act of sending
his pretty wife to the boss’s bachelor quar-
ters, to draw up terms of peace at the
bachelor’s own price. In its midnight in-
terview with Mrs. Brooks, the Latin-Ameri-
can S.S. Co. explains with emphasis and lu-
cidity what a shocking bad devil it was in
its youth and early middle age; but when
the young wife successfully resists encroach-
ment, and supplicates for death before dis-
honor, Williams throws up his brief, de-
clares his only desire was to prove how good
she was, hands over documentary absolution
for Joe, and takes the limelight, swelling
with fatuous gratification over a good deed
and a clear conscience. It is at this point
that the bad currant in Eugene Walters’s
hot-cross bun assumes the dimensions of
King Richard’s hump. If the Latin-Ameri-
can S.S. Co. didn’t covet its clerk’s pretty
missus, and if it wasn’t really a vindictive old
man of the sea, and a disreputable Bully
Hayes 11., why in the name of simple human
sanity did it go to so much trouble to inveigle
Joe Brooks into embezzlement, and arrange
the domestic and professional ruination of
that clamorous insect?
* * # *
The insufferable Joe, as handled by Cyril
Mackay, was the most vital feature of Sat-
urday night’s display. Mackay’s passion
wants mellowing ; he is inclined to savage a
part like this. But his work has strength
and truth. It is a stout if somewhat over-
painted picture of a miserable sinner clothing
his weakness with rage. Evidently one
Jimsy Smith is supposed to be the chief
masculine item, but he appears almost as an
intrusion, under the somewhat hesitating
treatment of William Desmond. George Bry-
ant is Capt. Williams, Bully Hayes ll.—a
bully who has abandoned South Sea “trad-
ing,” and taken up a more lucrative and vic-
ious form of Private Enterprise piracy. Bry-
ant is admirably suited as the gruff, tough,
ancient mariner. If the sea dog appears
a little too sinister in the light of third act
developments, Walters is to blame. The
author is responsible, too, for the fact that
Susie Vaughan’s part, as the mother-in-law,
and Florrie Gleeson’s little sister seem to
come into the play with reluctance. They
are necessary, but fictitious. Katherine
Grey is the pretty wife of Joe Brooks, the
peace-offering to the Latin-American S.S.
Co. The character is drawn with intelli-
gence and subdued power; but here,
as elsewhere, Miss Grey subdues too
much —her people have something of
the monotony of figures seen in a
mist. “Paid in Pull” is never dull. On
the whole it is a performance to be grateful
for, and Saturday’s audience expressed fre-
quent fervid gratitude in the usual manner.
Reminiscences , etc., of the production of
“ Olivette ,” produced at Melbourne Princess's by
the Melbourne (amateur) Comic Opera Society.
“Right is Might,” at Melbourne King’s,
is another story of Yankee adventure spat-
tered with comic scenes and sentimentality.
Considered as a play, the action is insuffici-
ently lively and sustained, and the dramatic
incidents are apt to lose their grip. The
yarn, however, has one recommendation. It
contains no villain juggling gleefully with
the Commandments. Its nearest approach
to a sinful force is James Ilappington, a
railway boss. James wants to invade a
lady’s land with one of his railway lines.
The lady, Allene Houston, declines his re-
quest, and when he decides to ignore her
objections, and pursue his scheme, she
adopts a fighting attitude. The result is
‘ some picturesque work by a troop of cow-
boys borrowed from the cheaper American
fiction. They harass James’s operations
with vigor, and worry John Ashby, his chief
engineer. But Ashby is able now and then
to forget their annoyances. lie is in love
with the dazzling Allene, whom he woos be-
tween arguments. By 10.40 p.m. she
is quite touched and submissive. There-
upon the conflict ends, the railway is built,
and she lays her head in the vicinity of his
wish-bone. The play contains a curiosity
in the person of Harry Marshall, a cow-
puncher with an unrequited affection. This
individual, enacted by Kenneth Brampton,
mopes about in a state of semi-somnambul-
ism. He never seems merry and bright, and
probably it is his sighs that have singed the
vegetation off Rege Robins’s scenery, and
given the latter its Sahara effects. Herbert
Leigh makes James Happington a -passable
character, and Walter Dalgleish is an ac-
ceptable humorist as Cowboy Jim. Miss
Bashford’s study of Miss Lily Bell is un-
even; Miss Beatrice Day as Allene Houston
is effective; and H. R. Roberts as John
Ashby adds another to his unexampled gal-
lery of treacley heroes.
* * *
“The Belle of Brittany” still draws her
admirers to the Melbourne Royal, where the
Marquis de St. Gautier continues to ; relate
his interesting tales. Thus far Melbourne
has felt grateful for such a creation as the
comic Marquis. Everything about him is
suggestive of humor, from his oddly-ac-
coutred person to his feverish-looking nose.
Talking ,of his nose, The Bulletin cannot
recall an organ that’ excites such bold sus-
nicions. Considered in the most flattering
light, it looks like the outward and visible
sign of an inner and spirituous leaning.
** * *
The present session of “A Waltz Dream,”
at Melbourne. Her Majesty’s, will be due for
the prorogation ceremony to-morrow. On
Saturday there begins a short revival of
“The Merry Widow,” which, as many people
know, conjugates “to love” as an irregular
verb.


r.TT
» mm!
I pip
P!
FI i
r-
ED
Where the
, 90 -
Sac Suit
Costs^
$
rferCash
Insure
with the
*
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED,
PITT AND KINO STREETS, SYDNEY.
FIRE ACCIDENT, EMPLOYERS’ LIABILITY, PLATE GLASS, Etc.
Lowest Rates Charged.
’Phone No. 230 Central.
Settlements Prompt and Equitable.
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman.
G. HOWARD POPE, Manager.
Motoring Gossip.
Cheap motor-cars, like all other cheap lines of
machinery, soon become absolutely valueless, as
their faults are so generally known to everybody,
and also that the market is flooded with them in
second-hand condition. High-grade cars of the
Wolseley or Renault type are always a saleable
asset, and are generally difficult to procure second-
hand, and to anyone starting motoring, to advise
them to buy the best is a safe proposition,*
At the Opera House the Perezoffs persist
in playing games with the crockery of a res-
taurant. These recent arrivals are seven
in number, but only two are industrious in
the pursuit of jugglery. The other five
are more in the nature of ornaments. In-
cluded among Saturday’s additions were
the Zanfrellas and Eunice and Zena. Ihe
first are equilibrists, who perform, a short,
neat act with statuesque effects. The other
pair are musicians, clever enough to make
commonplace business look like a new form
of cleverness.
** * *
Taits’ Melbourne tabernacle, the Glaciar-
ium, has commenced a special production ot
“Called Back,” with vocal accompaniments
by a lady singer. Extra music is also
supplied by an energetic orchestra, while a
lecturer’s baritone describes the stirring in-
cidents in organ tones.
*# * *
During the present week Spencer has been
producing “Hamlet” at his Melbourne shop.
The film is described as “the crowning work
of motion pictures,” and is certainly instruc-
tive and elaborate. Many of the incidents
are performed in the open air, and such
scenes as Ophelia’s funeral gain in simple
power thereby. Of other recent films “His
Trust” and “His Trust Fulfilled” have been
favorites with the emotional throng. Both
portray the unnatural goodness of an an-
cient nigger belonging to the marmalade
species of Uncle Toms.
** * *
The Royal Hawaiians, recently of Syd-
ney and northern parts, will descend upon
Melbourne, at the Athenaeum, on Monday
next.
** * *
The new St. Ivilda Theatre, which the
Amalgamated Pictures, Ltd., has anchored
wdthin easy distance of the railway station,
should fill rival showmen with envy. It is
a commodious structure, fitted and furnished
with exuberance. The walls are plain
white, punctured with leaded windows in the
soothing tint of watered absinthe. The
ceiling, white, and of fibrous plaster, allows
floral forms to dance on its vaulted chest.
The D.C., capable of seating about 250, has
the sweet look of a vice-regal reserve. The
seats are of polished wood, upholstered in a
shade of stewed quince. Carpets crawl de-
murely over the floors, while a lounge, pre-
sumably for smoking purposes, retires grace-
fully to the rear. The main hall holds
about 1300, and is comfortably chaired.
Rich curtains are provided as garments for
the screen, and the light, diffused from clus-
ters of electric globes, completes the picture
of elegance.
*m * *
“The Servant in the House,”, first produced
in Adelaide by that hard-working and en-
terprising body, the Literary Theatre, proves
to be even “more so” than “The Third-Floor
Back.” The mysterious stranger comes
from Asia, and wears Asiatic robes, and is
called Manson —-which is suggestively like
the Son of Man. Also, while serving as a
butler, he claims “loyalty, obedience and
love” from his English employers, and when
the time-serving Bishop, blocked by him at
every turn, would desperately like to “see
him nailed up as an example,” Manson re-
plies that other gentlemen of similar views
have expressed a similar wish in the past!
(That passage, by the way, seems very far-
fetched to an Australian audience, which
hardly knows the English custom of literally
nailing up crows, moles, rats, bad money and
other worthless objects.) The play, set in a
vicar’s household, preserves the classic Uni-
ties. It is divided for convenience into five
acts, but at each curtain-rise the characters
are found just as they were before the inter-
val, and there is no reason why the play
should not run straight on. The Vicar has
disowned his brother, a drain-man, but has
adopted the niece. The rough customer
comes, after 15 years, to make trouble and
get his child; but Manson turns aside the
wrath of the wrathful, and generally shows
everybody the right track. At the end the
v icar has his coat off, and is going to take
his share in a perilous job of cleansing, the
stench long noticeable having been found to
come from an awful pile of mouldering bones
right under the church itself —which is pos-
sibly Symbolic. There are seven characters,
and the only unsympathetic one is the Bishop,
who is rather unnecessarily made to promote
church-building, with a view to himself col-
laring part of the fund. It is a “fat” part,
and James Anderson made the most of it.
Arthur L. Smith took Manson as young,
brown-skinned, beardless, and earnestly
simple. The drain-man’s part was a triumph
for Wilfrid Neill, his identity of both face
and voice being completely lost. Miss Zoe
Reid scored in the difficult part of the girl,
and the others, though good, were not more
than good. The play is full of quiet fun,
and there seems to be nothing to keep it
from success on the ordinary stage.
** * *
The approach of Easter has made Adelaide
even more than usually musical. The Bach
Society broke out with a really good ren-
dering of Elgar’s “Dream of Gerontius,” and
the - Orpheus followed. The rearranged
King’s Theatre has made a fresh start with
the Scarlet Troubadours. At the Royal,
Clarke and Meynell have had a season of
“The Gay Gordons.” Frank Lincoln, ob-
viously nourished on the Seymour Hicks tra-
dition, dashes easily through a romantic-
comic hero’s part, begging (for example) the
dainty girl of his heart not to stand on the
sandwiches during a love-scene. If this
kind of hero is to become frequent, some of
the tenors who can sing, but can’t act, are
going to get left. Florence Imeson plays
up to him charmingly. Tom Graves is
funny, but apt to be too elaborately and self-
consciously so. “The Gay Grisette,” with
which the co. ended its season, is of a
slightly inferior brand. Williamson’s juven-
iles have now come in to the Royal, and are
reviving memories of Dorothy Vane and
Lauri in “The Geisha.” From the Tivoli,
Julian Rose has gone Londonwards, after
telling once more the story of the wedding-
party that fainted —the Irish member of it,
for his part, feinting with his right, and
landing deponent neatly with his left. Also
gone, Fasola, of the tons of apparatus, and
the quick, careless “Nothing in it: don’t
trouble to applaud” manner.
AT POVERTY POINT.
The Photographic Society of N. S. Wales is to open
an International Exhibition of camera work at the
Pitt-street rooms of the Royal Art Society on Friday
of next week. It will be the first time that a thor-
oughly representative collection of Australasian work
has been brought under one roof; and, besides the
Australasian work, what is claimed to be the finest
collection of photographic pictures ever sent out of
Great Britain will be on view. There will be 600
pictures altogether, of which 110 will be in the
English section, 300 in the N. S. Wales division,
150 from other Australian States and Maoriland, and
30 from the islands of Polynesia. The English, col-
lection is unusually attractive; it would be impossible
to see the like of it in England under one roof, be-
cause there is no national exhibition of camera work
in the Gold Country, where each little society has
its own small show. The task of awarding prizes
and orders of merit for this mass of work will fall
on Messrs. Tyree, Henry King and Norman Lindsay.
The exact position concerning the visit or pro-
posed visit of the Beecham Opera Co. is that
George Marlow, Ltd., is holding dates open for the
co. at the Princess’s, Melbourne, and Adelphi, Sydney.
As a guarantee of good faith, those negotiating
with Marlow have deposited a sum alleged to be
£l5OO, to be forfeited if the dates are not accepted
on or before April 30. If the dates are accepted,
another £l5OO has then to be deposited as a guaran-
tee of more good faith. Beecham is to transplant
the whole of his Covent Garden Co. arid scenery,
and play 12 weeks in Melbourne, and the same in
Sydney.
Adelaide’s Literary Theatre has now formed a club
to promote the study of plays of literary and artistic
value, and to further the interests of dramatic art
generally. Having fixed its headquarters in Grenfell-
street, it proposes to strengthen the theatre’s hold
on the public by arranging a series of lectures. Paris
Nesbit will speak on Goethe’s “Faust,” Professor
Darnley Naylor on the “Medea” of Euripides, Rev.
Depledge-Sykes on Ibsen’s “Brand,” and lawyer
Ronald Finlayson on “Oscar Wilde and the Stage.”
The club is also going to discuss Maeterlinck and
Rostand and Shaw, and perform various playlets,
including Shaw’s “Dark Lady of the Sonnets, which
is practically a plea for a National Theatre. All of
which the subscribers to the theatre get without
extra charge.
Barnum Powell, author of “The Matabele Sham-
paign,” “Aids to Skiting,” and other £sdandard
works, is to lecture in Australia and Maoriland in
1912. A while ago Barnum was a comparatively
silent man, but he has to live up somehow to the
proud position of Big Chief of the Boy Skites.
On the return of Hugh Ward to Wellington (M.L.),
that city rose up and handed him three cheers for
the help he and his co. gave in establishing a chil-
dren’s hospital last year. A citizens’ welcome was
given the co. in the Town Hall, and speeches, il-
luminated addresses, songs, silver souvenirs, photos
and general hallelujah rent the air. Nothing has,
however, been done to permanently recognise Ward’s
effort for the hospital, except that the committee
proposes to name a cot or a fowlhouse, or some-
thing, after him.
If the Far North does not like the acting, it says
so. Long ago, when Charley Dillon was playing
“Richelieu” at Ravenswood, he was ’requested by
someone in his audience to “lift up his petticoats
and dance a hornpipe.”
Australian actress Alice Crawford was lately ap-
pearing with Granville Barker and Lillah McCarthy
in a series of Viennese playlets at the London Palace.
The Bendigonian, by-the-bye, is cultivating the
sweetest, noli-me-tangere type of beauty. A recent
photo shows her gazing heavenwards in expensive
furs, and looking like a Madonna spending a day or
two in Switzerland.
Comedian W. S. Percy, who will leave Australia
in June, to try his talents on the Fog people, has
been to Greymouth (M.L.), paying a visit to Tom
Pollard, who practically “made” him. Percy
hints that he may return to Australasia with a co.
of his own.
Thus Nat Goodwin, after divorce from his fourth
wife, Edria Goodrich: “Once more a matrimoriial
remnant cast on Cupid’s bargain counter.”
Frank Gerald, who quitted Australia the other day
after giving Nat Gould’s “The Chance of a Life-
time’’ various airings, left a final word that the
sporting Nathaniel has vague designs for a lecturing
tour in these parts.
Mrs. Cordner Miles, an old-Sydney favorite on the
concert platform, now living in retirement, has
bought the music of “Die Meistersinger” (Wagner)
for the Sydney Philharmonic Societv—-“in memory
of her dead friend, Mrs. Sheridan" Moore.” This
Mrs. Moore was Flora Harris, who sang the princi-
pal soprano parts in oratorio in the ’6o’s. She
married Mr. J. Sheridan Moore, a well-known writer
of prose and verse in those days.
Though Bernard Pshaw gains no Cockney popu-
larity to speak of, he is steadily attaining a cosmo-
politan vogue. Italian versions of “Candida” and
“Arms and the Man” were recently given in Rome,
and now “The Showing-up of Blanco Posnet” has
been presented in Jap before the Japanese.
George Edwardes, as recently as February 26,
talked of producing a new musical comedy at
London Gaiety on March 4, under the title of
Pretty Peggy.” But that was the name of the
Peg Woffington comedy which George Musgrove
brought to Australia a few years ago, and in which
Nellie Stewart played the heroine—a very few years
ago, seeing that Rupert Clarke’s racing mare, Pretty
Peggy, christened after the play, is still in training.
“D.” : Remarkable how the oldsters re-appear in
the chickens of Williamson’s Juvenile Opera Co '
J“re’s a very pronounced Clayton, Fred Leslie is
faithfully reproduced, and decent imitations of Pat
Bathurst, Flo Young, Rose Musgrove, and Carrie
Moore are on view. Several of the laddies promise
to get there, but in all probability little Audrey
Duckworth will be the first to arrive. She has the
true spirit and piquancy of a comic-opera star, that
only needs maturing. The question is, is not this
talent, like wine, the better for maturing in dark-
ness ?
AJ. M. Barrie yarn. It was at the rehearsal
of a Barrie play, Barrie, among others, being on the
stage. During the rehearsal a modest male member
of the cast remarked: “Pooh, dear boy, what are
words ! I can express everything facially! ” “Well ”
said Barrie, chipping in, “go to the back of the
stage and express in your face that you have a
younger brother who was born in Shropshire, but is
now staying in a boarding-house on the South
Coast.
EVERYTHING MIXED.
MULGA BILL (after a joyful week 'at the Show):
“By Cripes (hie) they've got the exhibits
mix shed to-day!”
“Condot”: Is the writer of the par (B. 23/3/’ll)
re the Rev. Jack Costelloe quite sure tnat the Bent-
ley whom Costelloe met in America, and who had
left the boards for the pulpit, was not Walter Bent-
ley? Since the middle ’9o’s Bentley has had a
patchwork career. In ’9B he was stranded in Bris-
bane. He scratched a co. together, but it was
playing “Hamlet” with only the Hamlet. Then
he tried elocution teaching. This brought little
profit, so he essayed journalism, lecturing, and elec-
tioneering. Perhaps journalism was his best ven-
ture. In Brisbane he started a smart little paper
called Saturday Night, which was issued at about
7.30, and contained all the sporting results. Walter
was one of the first pressmen in Australia to use
carrier pigeons. At the opening of one sailing sea-
son he sent a man down to Moreton Bay on a
launch with a basket of carriers. The races fin-
ished in the Bay. The Observer went to press
without the results, and marvelled to find them
in Saturday Night. Bentley would have made a
great journalist. He had a good nose for news.
The paper stopped suddenly, however, and Bentley
went to New York, where he became rector of a
fashionable church. Writer of the Costelloe par. says
that Costelloe helped Bentley with his theatricals in
aid of the tabernacle. I know that Bentley started
a theatre class in connection with his church, and
that he and his flock performed in aid of the
funds. After a while he forsook the church, which
was very gloomy and irksome to him, and returned
to the irreligious stage.
“U.S”: Curious what accidents “fix” certain
almost historical costumes. There is a quaint case
in “The Shaughraun.” The incident happened at
Wallack’s Theatre, N’York, where J. C. Williamson
graduated. Boucicault, truly Irish, found, when the
first night arrived, that he had wholly forgotten to
provide himself with a costume for Conn. He went
to the wardrobe and picked out a scarlet hunting-
coat, used by Tony Lumpkin in “She Stoops to Con-
quer,” and Goldfinch in “The Road to Ruin.” This
had to be torn to suit Conn. Similarly did he pick
out an odd pair of hunting-boots and the hunting-
cap. And that was how Conn’s attire was settled
for all time.
“Exile” (from Noiseville) : Saw a subject of much
dispute last night (February 27) at the Coliseum
Music Hall, the most beautiful building of its kind
in London. It was a weird sketch written by W.
S. Gilbert, describing the last hours in prison
of a condemned murderer. It is the worst tabloid
of murderdrama London has ever seen, and indi-
cates that, if Gilbert had not met Arthur Sullivan,
he would have beaten Victor Hugo and Gaboriau in
the Gruesome Stakes by two laps in every mile. A
well-bred and well-dressed, though mixed, audience
heartily hooted “The Hooligan”—the first time, I
believe, the audience had ever hissed anything in its
life.
“Haresfoot”: A tribute is to be paid to a good
play. The German Emperor, in kindness to George
V., visits London next month, May. There is to
be a special performance at Drury Lane, on the
17th, in his honor. George was asked what play
the Emperor would like best, and plumped for Bul-
wer’s “Money.,” as against the whole range of the
drama. So it will be acted, by the best performers
in England. Strange to add, an act from “Money”
was selected, quite independently, as part of an
entertainment to be given on Coronation night at
Beerbohm Tree’s playhouse.
“Therobo”: Two notable features in Melbourne on
Good 1 riday—Bach’s Passion Music, according to
Matthew, by the Philharmonic; and, yet more out of
the way, v Ludovico’s Passion Music according to
John, at St. Patrick’s Cathedral. Ludovico is a
good deal older than Bach, who is abhorred by the
R.C.’s, as a Lutheran. In the Ludovico music
three priests -sang the chief solos, Fathers King,
Gibbons and Mangan.
“Sardonyx”: Isn’t it “Busk” himself (B. 30/3/’ll)
who is a bit snobbish in blaming J. C. Williamson
for bringing from England the juvenile contingent
of the “Bluebird” cast? Australian youngsters
would probably do as well, or even, as “B” sug-
gests, better; but it would only be after they had
received the requisite training. And, as J.C.W.
has already the trained kiddies to his hand, he would
be several kinds of idiot to leave them behind and
start afresh with Australian raw material.
“Snell”: Anything is possible to a man with a fad.
Hearken to a moving story from Maoriland, where
Cain and Playbill’s mammoth circus and menagerie
was performing in a tent to “crowded houses.” Pro-
fessor Thunder’s ma»row-freezing act, with three
poisonous and irreconcilable man-eating tigers, was
the sensational feature of the show. The caged ring
was being prepared for this horrifying turn, when
Agnes, the matronly tigress, awoke from her cus-
tomary lethargy, and seized on a helping of “supe.”
This attendant was bearing a set of pine steps at
the time, and, fortunately for him, Aggie took in a
portion of the timber along With her mouthful of
man. Agues for once was deaf to the stern die-
tates of Professor Thunder. The Lord helps those
who help themselves—so the tigress clung to her
‘supe. Of course excitement ran high, the uproar
wa ? terrific. Red-hot irons were introduced, and,
amidst shouting arid screams, and the clamor of
beasts, Agnes was burnt off her prey. Next day
Cain and Playbill discovered that an eminently re-
spectable resident from among their audience had
reported them, to the Society for the Prevention of
C ruelty to Animals for singeing Agnes.
. “it ud ’’v, * n one week’s Bulletin I find mention
of the Pnma Donna,” played by the children of
Charles Dickens, and the visit of the young Lord
Hopetoun. This recalls things, or brings various
things together. The “Prima Donna” was bv
Boucicault, and made a hit at the London Princess’s
with Caroline Heath (afterwards Mrs. Wilson Bar-
rett), Agnes Robertson (afterwards Mrs. Boucicault)
and our Australian friend Cathcart, in the cast.
This was under Charles Kean’s management. Lord
Hopetoun was then courting Agnes Robertson, Mrs.
Kean s ward; but she ran away to America with
Boucicault. They returned with the trump card of
The Colleen Bawn.” Years later Governor Hope-
toun would not patronise Brough and Boucicault at
the Melbourne Bijou—a strange rankle of his dad’s
old grudge. So little Aggie missed being our first
G.-G.’s mother. She was living, according to my
last information, and happy in the success of “Dot”
and Nina. “Dot” (D.G.) is in the front rank of
London producers, after learning the craft in Aus-
tralia. Another sister married John Clayton. The
elder Boucicault’s favorite son, Aubrey, was killed
in the Paddington railway accident, which occurred
while Mr. and Mrs. Boucicault were acting in “The
Shaughraun” at Drury Lane.
Apropos the music-hall’s rivalry with the theatre.
At latest advices, short plays by Sydney Grundy
and Henry Arthur Jones were being produced at
London “halls,” Tree’s “Henry VIII.” was being
shown per cinematograph at one house, the serious-
minded Granville Barker and Lillah McCarthy, his
wife, were at another, and at a third the Matheson
Langs were giving a condensed version of the
“Shrew.”
“Busk”: Failing a Brooke or a Sullivan, we have
to take classic drama through the biograph. This
week we have a new adaptation of “Virginius.” 1
fancy Shakspeare thought of this as a subject. Al-
fieri’s “Virginia” was the first notable play on the
theme, but that of Knowles was better; it was
acted in Australia by Brooke, Montgomery, and a
few others. Written for Kean, the latter made the
error of refusing it, whereon Macready snapped it,
and achieved his great success. Brooke’s choicest
tragic parts were Othello, lago, Richelieu, Vir-
ginius and Sir Giles Overreach. Barrett’s Virginius
missed the effect in the great Court scene. Brooke’s
last Australian appearance was in this part. He
had performed it at the Marylebone Theatre, Lon-
don, when only 16 years old. He was known then
as the Boy Tragedian, and was travelling under the
care of his mother. This was his only recorded Lon-
don performance till he appeared as Othello, at the
Olympic, when nearly 30.
The millennium may be expected any day
now, Judkins having bogged into the business.
The remarkable egotist from Victoria has pon-
dered over the Melbourne strike, and has decided
that all that is necessary is a “new unionism”—
an organisation “representing equally the interests
of employers and employees.” Well, what about
Wages Boards and Arbitration Courts? Don’t
they represent both parties? And that being so,
why doesn’t Judkins start kicking the Govern-
ment, to compel it to appoint Wages Boards all
round—in the Cow districts for a start?
John Madden admits that he, too, wrote
verses when he was younger. He remains proud
of his performance, asserting that his rhymes
were stolen by other bards. Of course, the
Madden poems will be unearthed. A man’s
literary past is always waiting for him round the
corner. Many Australians beside George Reid,
Parkes, Neild and McLean have found it out, and
learned that too often what is written in haste is
repented at leisure. John gave up poetry soon
after taking to law ; no doubt he realised that it
is so much easier to make a judge than a poet.
A lot of the credit for the far-reaching
decision of N.S.W. State Secretary MacDonnel to
throw open the State-subsidised country hospitals
to all medical practitioners is due to the per-
tinacity of Dr. Bobart, of Nowra, who stuck to
the agitation for years, hammering away at suc-
cessive Administrations until the point was
gained. Bobart is a Melbourne Medical School
man, who afterwards got a London degree and
entered the navy. He was surgeon on the Dart
on the Australian coast for some years, and even-
tually nailed up his shingle at Nowra.
From Australia ’Murkan Labor lecturer
Mills, M.A., and “special Commissioner for the
city of Milwaukee,” will go on to Maoriland in
June, at the invitation of the Labor party. Mills,
who is the author of (among other things) “The
Struggle for Existence,” should be in time to
wheel into a vigorous argument, which has been
started in Wellington, as to whether a workman
can live and bring up a family on £2 Bs. per week.
That is the amount paid by the City Council to
some of its employees, and, when last week they
asked for an increase that would enable them to
live without resource to charity, and without feel-
ing that they were “the scum of Labor,” one fat
councillor told them that they were suffering from
“improvidence or extravagant wives.”
The Argus has been struggling to drum
up sympathy for a white Egyptian donkey which
S. P. McKay, of Berwick, tried to import. The
blonde ass from Egypt was an expensive neddy ;
but the Commonwealth authorities ruled him out
of order, Egyptian donkeys being subject to a
nasty disease communicable not only to asses but
also to horses. The Akgus is almost as angrv
over the donkey as it was over the “Six Satyrs ”
and the Petriana, and its concern for the quad-
ruped excites a suspicion that the long-eare#i
beast was being imported to lend valuable support
to the Liberal party in the crusade against the
Referenda.
That passionless stage-producer of cold
figures, Auditor-General Israel, has a few words
to say in his last annual report about those States
the Commonwealth has so generously
treated, but which nevertheless lately decided to
demand interest on the amount owing for trans-
ferred properties. “It was pointed out,”says he,
“ in my last annual report that the sum of £68,342
is owing to the Post Office by the several States
for shipping and other telegrams, this amount
being due up to June 30. 1904. ... It does not
appear that the amounts charged can be legally
waived.” Mr. Israel is a courteous man. A less
affable one would have made insulting remarks
about shuffiesome. debtors who pose as merely
creditors.
THE ACTOR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“An actor’s life’s a dog’s life,”
He said, “and that’s a fact:
If I had any children
I would not let them act.
“I’ve seen the dense crowds cheering,
Or dumb with sympathy;
But stale and uninspiring
Their plaudits are to me.
“The limelight is attractive
To those beyond its glare;
But those who know its snadows,
Can find no romance there.
“For me a simple home-life,
With children at my knee;
I’m sick of stage-light’s glitter,
And notoriety.”
He drank his beer and vanished,
To face his dreary toil.
“That bloke?” said Bung. “Oh, he is
A super at the Koyal.”
N.S.W.
HAMER.


TWO SMART HATS.
New Shaped Panamas from South Amer-
ica. The brims are inches to 3J: inches
wide. The plait is fine and even, splendid
bleach, and leathers are sweat proof. These
are the best value offered in Australia, and we
guarantee they will not crack. 15/6 &21 /=
Others prices range from 25/- to 63/-
Lounge Shape Hat. Illustrated here is a
splendid style in a lounge felt hat for the
country —carrying a brim that may be worn
either turned up or down. To be had in
colors—Plover green and grey ... 15/6
WE PAY CARRIAGE on these Goods to Any Part of the Commonwealth.
DAVID JONES LTD.
OPP. G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
WHAT CONSTIPATION MEANS.
Constipation resembles nothing 1 so much as the
stopping of the sewerage system of a city, and
you know the outbreak of disease that would
result if this should happen. Then try to realise,
the danger to yourself if you allow your bowels to
become clogged. The poisonous matter which
should pass off is absorbed into the blood, which
is the cause of numerous diseases. When you are
troubled this way there is just one thing to do—
get a box of Chamberlain’s Tablets. They cleanse
and invigorate the stomach and bowels, and clear
the system of all foul accumulations and restore it
to a normal condition.*
4/-
JUST TO ADVERTISE!!
A Sixpenny Bottle of CALDWELL’S
INK and a Half-Guinea 14-carat Gold-
Nib, Iridium tipped, twin feed Fountain Pen for
If you can’t buy locally, send Postal Note
direct to
CALDWELL’S INKS PTY. LTD.,
Yarra Bank Road, Melbourne.
SOCIETY
PENFOLD'S
WINES
SHOW-TIME CRITICISM.
B ILL: “ Musl ha' been a strayer orlright."
If Justice Sim has rightly interpreted
Maoriland’s Workers’ Compensation Act, that
measure ought to be ashamed of itself. A young
Maori, working for a contractor, was killed. He
was married to a Maori according to native eus-
tom, as his father and mother had been before
him. The wife and the father joined in an action
to recover compensation ; but Sim, J., following
a bad precedent, held that marriage by native
custom gave the wife no standing in court. So
the insurance co. saves another hit for thedivi-
dend—unless it decides that it lias better ideas of
justice than the Law, and pays the moral claim
accordingly. *
HIS PROPER PRIDE.
THE ANGEL : “ Poor man!
And are you married?"
THE POOR MAN : “Pardon
me, madam! D'ye think I'd be relyin' on total strangers fer support if I had a wife? ”
The Argus mentioned the other day that
a man was fined £5O, with the alternative of six
months in a hard, stone cell, for “ having repre-
sented himself as a medical practitioner, without
having been registered.” This method of dealing
with a non-unionist by an impartial law should
have struck the Argus as a disgraceful outrage on
the liberty of the subject. But on this occasion
the old lady somehow wrote no strident leader
condemning this enforcement of the principle of
“ preference to unionists.”
* * * *
“ Hamer” : There are occasions on which
I have some fear for the Referenda. The other
day an enlightened citizen,
after a brief conversation
about the weather and the
way the fish were biting,
asked me suddenly what this
Referendum was that all the
talk was about. I suggested
that he was a stranger, but
he Somewhat indignantly
denied it. Then I started
to enlighten him by telling
him that the Referendum was
to give greater powers to the
Australian Government. He
seemed quite amazed to hear
of the existence of an AuS-<
tralian Government, but
dimly remembered having
taken part in celebrations
in honor of the establishment
of something of the sort; I
asked him if he was on the
roll. “Well,” he said, “a
man came round to collect
my name, and I suppose it
was that—unless it was the
dog-tax, or something.” A
man like that will naturally
vote “No.” He is so enlightened.
South Aus. feels pleased with itself over
its youthful military recruits. For tKitchener’s
Military College at Canberra, the State, on popu-
lation, was only entitled to send three out of 33
students; but eight entered, all passed the
doctor, and six passed the stiff examination in all
kinds of scholastic subjects. Meanwhile, Ma
came a cropper. On population, she was entitled
to 11 young officers ; but she put up 28, and the
doctors turned down 10 of them. Then in the
examination (which was the same all oyer
Australia), 12 of the remaining 18 were rejected.
True, it was a N.S.W. boy, N. E. Biden, who
headed the whole list, with nearly 10,000 out of a
possible 11,000 marks; but, as things go, large
N.S.W. and little S.A. each get six in.
The Randwick (Sydney) Asylum for
Children is to go. Built about GO years back, on
Crown land, out of a bequest by Catherine Hayes,
the institution has long outlived its usefulness;
and a sister charity, the Catherine Hayes Hospital,
has hardly a patient. Private endowments have
kept the institution going since State-aid stopped,
20 years ago; and now Minister Beeby has
decided to resume the 20 acres of land, and put
it to more effective use. His main troubles are to
decide (1) how best to use £53,000, left under
various wills for the benefit of the children of the
asylum, and (2) how to usefully use the hospital,
which cannot be disposed of. As for the land, he
proposes to plant on it a badly-needed teachers’
training college.
* * * *
“ B. de D.”: The worst, case of political
ignorance that has ever fallen on me happened
while I was waiting to
have my hair sub-
edited. A huge, ill-
dressed man was having
his stuff cut down with
scissors and airing his
views on politics at the
same time. He declared
his intention to vote
“No” on the census
because if it were car-
ried all religions would
pass into the hands of
the Commonwealth.
The man with the shears
knew more than this,
but, not wishing to
offend, gently remarked
that it was open to every-
body to vote “ object.”
The colossal monument
of ignorance, however,
declared that he was
going to be on the safe
side abd vote “No” to
everything proposed by
the Labor party. After
he had gone I asked the
hair sub-editor who the
man was. “He’s a
smart chap,” he replied
—“a Self-made man. He can’t read or write, but
lie’s got two terraces of bouses.” And Alf Deakin
and Willie Watts-his-narne are rushing about the
country “appealing to the intelligence of the
electors.”
It is admitted now by officers of the Terra
Nova that the vessel was overloaded when she
departed from M.L. for the southern ice-pack
with the Scott expedition. One gale that fell upon
her with furious wind-assault and sea-battery gave
all on board so close a view of D. .Tones’s locker
that they could see the mould on the hinges. A
large quantity of paraffin, tons of coal, and a
couple of ponies were lost or thrown overboard ;
the pumps went on strike and refused to work
overtime, with the result that all hands and the
seasick scientists had to collect in buckets the
waves that poured below and heave them in the
direction Jonah went; the fires had to be extin-
guished to save the boilers; and all was dash and
bang, and occasional glimpses of the horizon, and
sodden prayers. It was a great rally, and when
it was over and done with the expedition combed
the brine out of its hair and looked round in grati-
tude for a plate to put thrippence in.
The alleged “ noble Red Man,” who only
the other day finished collecting the scalps
of frontiersmen, is now “civilised.” He has
adopted the white man’s customs, taken the white
man’s university degrees, and wears the white
man’s plug hat over his impassive countenance.
And, having reached this stage, lie writes an
article in the Outlook —which is a white man’s
review—to say that he is neither as noble nor as
wise as he was when he grunted in his wigwam
and went out, arrayed in one feather and
warpaint, to remove the skull-upholstery of the
passing stranger. He says that the Indian,
before he was “civilised,” used to sit down and
think till he almost burst with accumulated wis-
dom. The hope of each good Indian was that, by
guarding his tongue in youth, he might mature in
his age a thought which would be of service to his
people—as, for instance, no doubt, some entirely
new method of massacre. This frank criticism
may be all right for an American review ; but it
is the sort of thing ,T. Bull can’t afford to coun-
tenance. If the Egyptian starts to tear things to
pieces from his standpoint, and the flattened
Bengali tells the world how he has been undone,
and the Zulu and West African proclaim that they
were better and happier before they were saved.
Bull may be reduced to such a state that he will
plead: “Well, anyway, if I have taken your
land, inflicted missionaries on you, shelled you
with warships, made you work and ruined your
peace of mind, you must admit that I have at least
brought you the blessings of rum and rifles.”
* * * *
So rapidly grows the S. M. Herald
column in which people seek life-partners (“ no
triflers”), that the day may come when the vener-
able tenant of Sydney’s tri-lateral Temple of
Journalism will go forth to the world as the S.M.
Herald and Matrimonial Gazette. A month’s
study of this “Personal and Missing Friends”
department reveals much humor and not a
little pathos. A touching thing this, with the
ring of sincerity, from a recent issue :
Honest workman with his own cottage seeks a wife
with blue eyes and a little money.
Blue eyes and a little money—a lot of romance
and a little reality. It recalls an old story of the
dying Parkes. A medical consultation had been
arranged, and Dr. Angel Money was announced.
“Angel Money ! ” exclaimed the old statesman.
“What a beautiful name! How well it makes
the best of both worlds ! ”
“ Snakebite,” from a Prohibition town:—
When the Powlett State coal-mine was opened and the
township of Wonthaggi was born, Vic. Premier John
Weary, having given up liquor himself, decided that the
infant should be brought up dry, too. Unfortunately,
when you start a new town you mostly have to start it
with old sinners, more or less; and that’s where John’s
excellent intentions came to grief. “Pigs,” or sly-prog
shops, soon got to work, and to-day drinking proceeds
in the most open way'. There are at least a dozen shops
where you can drink your glass of beer in full view of the
street. Also, several of the boarding-houses and refresh-
ment-rooms have their private cellars. The police make
futile and desultory raids, but v’ith scarcely any result.
Even if they find a room full of men and hop-fumes, they
can usually do nothing. The law forbids any person to
have more than two gallons of intoxicating liquor on the
premises ; but mostly the enterprising “pig ” has accom-
modating neighbors, and he leaves a tv'o-gallon jar with
each. Sometimes these neighbors entertain themselves
and their friends, after which the jars are filled up with
water—or anything else. Then the thirsty public comes
along and pays its6d. per glass for the muck. All of which
is a good argument for a State hotel, where decent, drink
might be bought at reasonable price. In default of a
State pub, Wonthaggi will soon out-club Mildura. One
“club” has a license already, and another with a mem-
bership of 300 is getting its beer-pump ready.
WHERE MEN DON'T COUNT.
LEADING LADY: “Sir, what can I get for
you?”
MERE MAN : “ Well, I was told to drop in for
a cheap hat, but somehow I feel as if lam
the only cheap thing in the establishment."
Melbourne has a Foundling and Maternity
H()me managed by the y er y Naicest People,
j nqilisitoria] me tl,ods with impending mothers
were abando ned long ago, and many people fell
, into the error of crediting the change to anew crop
of Christian charity. Mrs. President, however, let
fche o . fc ()Ut of the bag at a recenfc meetillg . - But
T , , ~ , . , t>;„i . 'pi,;„i.,\,„.
I thought,’ protested one Right-1 Inn king
-»»-
Matron, “that we alwavs inquired the name of
. .. „ . „ " , • , •j, . ■
the Man. “ Not now, explained the president m
... . , . f A
mournfu tones. We used to; but we found that
~uu " . . . ’
the rls, in a spirit of mischief, mentioned the
names of prominent gentlemen in Melbourne —
na mes that could only have been known to them
throl , gb the papers,” A shocked silence was
, , , ,■ r -r, ■
broken by the purring comment: 1 erhaps tj»e\
spoke the truth,” from a woman who hacf heard
the graceless whisper that the portly lord of a
committee member had been nominated by one
t . „
brazen iiuzzy.
LEISURE AND LAMP POSTS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
It seemed to him that young- men got the wages of
men, and they had too much money, and were not taugh,
the lesson of thrift. The hours, too, were so short that
when the evening came they had, beside their leisuret
unabated visror; and if these young people were not in-
structed, or had not someone to give them good employ-
ment and occupation, they would hang around the street
corners and lean against the lamp posts.— Prominent
Baptist.
Observe us, the black-hatted snarlers and sweaters of
white man and nigger 1
We want the penultimate coin and the very last vestige
of vigor;
Each corner and lamp post we hate, for the youth of the
land gather round it
When they should h» packed in a hall while we mangle
the Word or expound it.
We have parlor games and weak tea, and a roomful of
books—mostly piffle ;
We whisper and walk on our toes or enjoy a disconsolate
sniffle ;
With windows hermetically sealed and the sounds of
existence excluding,
We get a soporific effect most conducive to goodness and
brooding.
We shun as Hell’s beacons the lights and the shadows
and laughter delightful ;
Life lures us, yet frightens us, so we take refuge in stuffi-
ness spiteful ;
In brightly-lit halls we feel Safe from the whirlpools of
Sin at street level;
Our refuges frighten the Fiend—we have made them too
dull for the Devil.
T ie Pageant of Life we avoid, and we know not why
Youth yearns to watch it.
Why, all sorts of people go by ! How we wish we had
power to scotch it!
N it a youth ’neath the stars would be found if tve could
arrange it, dear brother !
T.iey’d run like mechanical saints from one vacuum hall
to another.
In vain are our protests and tears, for the evil increases
and rages ;
They Come fairly fresh from their work, where they earn
their immoral high wages;
They want to stay out in the air, far away from our little
collection,
And bluntly refuse to come in and attain to our stuffy
perfection.
We’li never admit that the street is their club, or that
Vice isn’t seething;
O lr minds are all grimed with the dust and foul air we
are constantly breathing;
Ar> the carbonic acid gas saints, we frown on the coming
and going-,
And fly from the Devil’s fresh air—from the oxygen
constantly blowing.
N.S.W.
THE RELIGIOUS EDITOR.


d¥i
For all
domestic uses.
Half the toil of
household work is
done away with
when Sunlight
Soap enters j
*J:he home, \
No. 57. GUARANTEED UNDER THE
“PURE FOOD ACT, 1908,”
BY LEVER BROTHERS LIMITED,
SYDNEY, N.S.W. No. 57.
HEADACHE and MIGRIM, two curses of modern
civilised life, are in ninety-nine cases out of a hundred
closely connected with functional disturbance of the
bowels. The simplest and best of all remedies for the
latter trouble is a wineglassful of “ Hunyadi Janos”
natural aperient water taken before breakfast every
second or third morning'.*
Marcus Clark & Co., Ltd., of Sydney, have
prepared an interesting: 160-page magazine for free distri-
bution to applicants in any part of the Commonwealth.’ 1
Credit is due to that well-established firm, the
Misses Isaacs, of 161 King Street, City, for the excellent
manner in which the Grecian ladies were coiffured on ti e
opening day of the All Nations Fete. Many were the
comments and inquiries as to who had executed sucn
works of art, and the curious are hereby notified that the
work was executed by the above firm.*
The ambition of most young men is to adorn the
upper lip with an attractive moustache, and the continued
popularity of Capillarine provides abundant evidence that
its possibilities in this direction are being made good use
of. Messrs. Craig and Aitken, 654 George Street, are the
sole Australian representatives, and they affirm that the
use of a small quantity of Capillarine is all that is required
to produce a strong and healthy moustache. It will be
posted to any address on receipt of 10s. 6d.*
If you want something really good in the way
of r zors or razor strops, buy the Diamond Edge brand,
the best that money can buy. Razors 7s. 6d. and 10s. 6d.
each. Strops 6s. Sold only by the Sole Agent, T. Wild,
Vice-Regal Hairdresser, 30 Sydney Arcade; entrance
from George or King Streets, Sydney.*
A Fine Knock-about Boot for the Country.
IT is made of Black Box Yearling
Calf, without toecaps and with
watertight tongue—just the very
thing for Riding ahd general every-day
wear, particularly in the Winter ! The
soles are sewn, not sprigged—and, in
spite of its moderate cost, the Boot has
a real character in shape and make !
Price
13,6
Posta f
9d. extra.
PEAPES & Co. Ltd.
“ Men’s Outfitters,”
309= 11 George Street, SYDNEY.
“Exal”: My experience tallies with that
of “ Crass ” (B. 30/3/11). I have known heaps of
Bush Australians who were very accurae . > -
shots with a 22-calibre rifle—the pea-rifle >
frequent paragraph, in fact; though the resig<
tion is applied in the gun-trade to quite a i ei
type of weapon. But I have never known
bushie who could shoot worth a cent at over
yards. The fault lies not in the young Australian
eye, which is sharper than most, nor in the >oun„
Australian hand, which is steady as. ant, u m
the fact that the marksman’s shooting has been
exclusively with a light rifle at a range which does
not exact from him any acquaintance with e ova-
tion, lift, drift, jump, flip, mirage or windage a
of which have to be reckoned with in long-iange
shooting. Said one chap to me, when I spoke ot
a rifle sighted to 3000 yards: “\\ hy, mister,
you’d want a bloomin’ cannon for that distance .
Of course, it may be said that, at his own distance
and with his accustomed weapon, the bushman
would give a good account of the foe. But to this it
has to be answered that, on active service, his light
rifle would soon go to pieces, and his short range
would be of no use to him at the “ long-bowls ot
the modern military rifle.
* * * *
Dear B.—The other day I called at the
S. M. Herald office, on behalf of a lady friend,
with the following advt. :
"WANTED, Female Thug-to take over unwanted
** Infant, and strangle, starve or otherwise dis-
pose of same within reasonable period. Generous
fee. No triflers.
They refused my offering, and, practically speak-
ing, pushed me through the window. Yet the
very next morning I found the following, running
one after the other :
"WANTED, refined Lady to Adopt as own healthy
vv Baby Girl, month old. R. H., Parramatta P.O.
■WANTED, refined,good Home for Baby, good, kind
'* mother, no children. 22 Seale-st., City.
"WANTED, kind Person to adopt healthy baby Boy,
vv 3 months old. G. P., Balmain Post-office.
"WANTED, Person'to adopt a baby from birth, of
’ v good parentage. Truth, Canterbury Post-
office.
What I wish to ask, quietly but very firmly, is :
Why this injurious differentiation ?—Yours sur-
prised ly, Henry Housebreaker.
MORE OR LESS.
“Of course you keep a servant? ”
"Well, it’s a matter' of opinion."
Mount Gram Mer, sitting on the lid of a
reputedly extinct volcano, down where South
Australia’s S.E. joins on to Victoria’s S.W., is
getting thoughtful. The Blue Lake, lying in one
reputedly-extinct crater, is said to be 12ft. higher
than when the waterworks were founded in 1883.
It was within 18in. or so of its present mark at
the beginning of this century, but then; subsided.
It has now come on 9ft. in the last three years,
and inhabitants want to know just what it means
and where it intends to stop.
SOMETHING IN TILE OEFING.
THE REV. DUM : “ Come, brother!”
THE REV. DEE. : “ Wait, brother I There's a
ship in fill sail!"
The staid Melbourne Athenaeum (not to
be confounded with the Athenaeum Club) is erupt-
ing in a card and smoking room. Old and tried
members shake their grey locks solemnly, and
wonder what the world is coming to. That the
old, stodgy Melbourne Athenaeum should thus
break out is like another Fall. It has kept to
the traditions of “ the East,” where nothing
changes. The staff lives and dies in
the hoary service. Members themselves
hang on like barnacles. To-day you
will see faces there that were poring
over papers 30 years ago, sitting in
the same chairs, at the same table,
coming in every day at the same
hour, and leaving according to
the clock. Nobody ever gets to
know his fellow member. Still,
there used to be a sort of
nexus. For many years there has
been knocking about the reading-
room a queer old Suggestion Book
—long since disused—whose birth
was contemporaneous with the
christening of the institution. The
contributors thereto evidently took
themselves as seriously as Judkins
in flippant vein. About 30 years
ago a fierce battle raged within its
pages—Should the wicked “Ouida”
be admitted to the library shelves?
The then Wowsers, sad to say,
snatched a temporary victory ; but,
in the end, the innoeuons creator
of Seraph and Lord Bertie came
out triumphant. Years ago, before
the trees grew large and blocked
the view of the Akgus hoardings,
the reading-room used to lie rushed
on election nights. But even that
excitement has ended. Still, after
all, there are few better institu-
tions of its kind than the Mel-
bourne Athenaeum both in number and variety of
papers and magazines and in the extent of the
library. The shelves of the latter hold a number
of rare and valuable first editions, not to be dupli-
cated in the Commonwealth, a fact due to the per :
sonuel and scholarly standing of early members.
The old manslaughter-risking rule of the
Sydney ferry cos., that a skipper on the river
services must hand over his steering wheel to a
deckhand while he collects tickets round the
decks, was given another bad advertisement the
other day at the Water Court. According to the
evidence a sailing boat with children on board
was crossing the Parramatta River, when the
steamer Bronzewing was seen tearing down at full
speed. Having the right of way, the sailing boat
kept on until a collision looked certain, when the
boat owner let everything go, and the steamer,
without altering her course, rushed past, with
only 2ft. to spare between them. It was admitted
that those on the Bronzewing did not see the
sailing boat. The master didn’t set up the de-
fence that he had to go selling tickets instead of
looking after iiis job, but argued that, as lie was
on the lower deck when the sail boat dodged col-
lision, he wasn’t legally liable. The P.M. decided
that he was liable for not getting out of the way,
and fined him £5. In cases like this the ferry qo.,
which, despite the expostulations of the Harbor
Trust and masters themselves, requires its skip-
pers to act as collectors of fares, is never, fined a
red cent. Even if an accident happened, and 50
lives were lost, it doesn’t appear as though even
one director would get 10 years for manslaughter,
for the encouragement of the others.
“ Sardonyx ” : One thing
appears to be carefully ignored
by the women who so persist-
ently shriek about what they
call the “rank injustice” of
paying women less than men
for similar work. If it be m t
(and this the complainants
strenuously deny) that the
woman’s woilt is worse done
than the man’s, then it must
be that women themselves
keep the rates down by accept-
ing less than a man will take.
Less, indeed, than a man can
take, because he has generally
a family depending upon him,
whereas the woman has seldom
anybody to consider but her-
self. When a woman is offered
smaller pay than would be
offered a man for the same
work, the only possible reason
—supposing the woman to be as
efficient as the man —is that
other women are ready to snap
the job at the same or a lower
figure. Nutshelled, the situation
therefore amounts to this. Woman cuts down her
own wage-standard, and then reviles Man because
he won’t—or, more properly, can t —come down
to her figure.
Nannine (W. A.) boasts a mayor and six
councillors. A while back, with a view to gather-
ing in some gilt, the town clerk was instructed to
request the local ‘‘.John ’’-a new arrival-to
enforce the law relating to driving vehicles^ vvith-
out l.gh s during certain hours, llw t John
was loaded and went off with a very loud hang
H,s first and only capture was the mavor and five
of he councillors. Die other councillor always
walks, and it saved him half a sovereign that
tlme * * * * *
„ T , .... . , .
While the Sydney dailies were splashing
black head-lines across their sheets to this effect :
“Great Shortage of Labor,” “The Difficulties
of Employers,” Sehvyeppes, Ltd., were advertising
in the S. M. Herald notifying “the numerous
applicants (242 in all) ’for the permanent job of
carter that the vacancy had been filled. I here
maybe a shortage of some sorts of labor ; but,
anyhow there are evidently plenty of men not
satisfied with the sort of labor—dr the sort of
pay—they’ve got.
“01eo”:The little Art world of Melbourne
is buzzing over what is considered a breach of good
taste on the part of a visiting painter. At his own
“party-night” he was criticising his own work,
and confessed that, viewing it where it was hung
in the gallery, it certainly did make the surround-
ing pictures look “purposeless.” The remark, no
doubt, sounds painfully egotistical ; but, then,
isn’t Egotism the soul of Art ? And, anyway,
those who condemn the man should not overlook
the other side of the question. The work had
been ordered seven years ago; and the fact that the
artist waited so long to execute the commission
speaks volumes for his sincerity and his desire to
do his best. If lie had waited 20 years, sketching,
planning, destroying and creating, so much the
better for his production. However, the people
in authority chose to view his delay as “in-
civility and inattention ’’ —asthougb the artist is to
bejudged according to the standards for the butcher
—and the work was not even acknowledged. The
picture is a big thing, from every point of view
(competent critics claim that it is one of the finest
representations of Tragedy in the world); and the
attitude of the Gallery trustees has in it something
of the sulky schoolboy. Under these circum-
stances, is a man blamable because he too
recognises that he has produced a good thing,
and demands for it the respect it warrants?
True, when one recognises the value of one’s own
work, one doesn’t necessarily have to cry that the
other fellow’s work is no good ; but the idea in
the man’s mind evidently was, not that the other
artists had painted purposeless pictures, but that
the Gallery had selected them and, presumably,
rejoiced over them.
* * * *
Justice Gordon, of S. Aus., talked some
common-sense in the Criminal Court at Adelaide
lately. The accused men had been disturbed at
the door of a barber’s shop at 10.30 p.m. The
padlock was smashed, but they had not got in
when the police arrived; so counsel calmly
argued that there was no evidence of breaking in,
or even of intent to enter with a felonious pur-
pose. He showed this to be the law, as decided
by an English Judge, Alderson. Then it was
that Gordon got out the axe. “Lord Alderson
was a great Judge,” he said, “but the criminal
law has made a few strides since 1844”; and
—after restoratives had been applied to the Bar—
he gave a formal ruling, against which they could
appeal if they cared to : “That, if it were proved
that a man other than the owner or occupier were
DISQUALIFIED.
HER: “I suppose, you think yourself an accom-
plished flirt l ”
HIM: “I used to until one of the girls I
thought I was flirting with married me."
seen to break the lock of a warehouse door
between 10 and 11 p.m., evidence was afforded
by which the jury might infer that he intended to
enter the premises with intent to steal.” That
sounds like sarcasm, but it isn’t. It is a mere
statement of what is the law now, but apparently
was not the law till Gordon used his axe. The
nocturnal padlock-fraeturer can still explain that
he was merely breaking the claw of a crayfish for
supper, or trying to wake the man next door ; but
he will have to give some explanation. Mean-
while, it is officially decided that Baton Aldeison
(1844) is Dead.
TRUE LOVE AND RABBITS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Two hawkers were charged with the novel offence of
conveying rabbits through the streets “ unprotected
from dust, flies, or the rays of the sun.” . . . Fined 10s.
—yews item.
He was a handsome Rabbit-O,
His voice was neither loud nor raucous:
He sang his rabbits, sweet and low,
And never talked about the Caucus.
She was a frump whom Love had shiiked,
Her dad a man of Lib’ral habits,
Who hated ev’ryone that worked,
Including those who vended rabbits.
The Rabbit-0 had dreams of ease ;
The Lib’ral’s girl had dreams of loving ;
Her roving eye he seemed to please
When rabbits round the suburb shoving.
She marked him down (he did not know),
And shuddered when, with curses hearty,
Her breathless sire (of Fat and Co.)
With vigor d d the Labor party.
She watched her love as he wheeled by,
Nor cared a jot that he was shabby ;
She trembled when she heard him cry,
Like poor and homeless Love, “ IF ild Tabby ! ’
She felt that she must meet him soon.
But how ? ’Twas still her wits defying
When, walking out one afternoon,
Somewhere about she heard him crying.
She hurried down one dusty lane,
Then up another, long and narrow,
And found—it caused her grief and pain—
Her loved one cursing by his barrow.
“ What is the matter, dear t " she cried.
He jumped—that humble rabbit-shover ;
Then with his hat he tried to hide
Three pairs. “’Ere! Get these under cover ! "
“ It’s unpertected food ! ” he gasped,
“ An’ there’s th’ blanky sergeant, blast it !”
The Lib’ral maid her veil unclasped,
And o’er the sunbaked rabbits cast it.
The rabbit merchant nearly wept
(lie was a man of frugal habits),
When to his side she proudly stept,
And held her sunshade o'er the rabbits.
Arid so they stood when on his way
The sergeant paused and grimly eyed them,
Then passed. They told their love that day,
The six veiled rabbits prone beside them.
They went and told her dad of it,
And asked him meekly for his blessing.
Without delay he had a fit.
They left. The sight was too distressing.
Next day they wed. Dad took the blow,
Condemning in a manner hearty
True love, his girl, the ltabbit-0,
All rabbits and the Labor Party.
N.S.W.
HORATIO BREATHLESS.


MISSING MAIL BAG.
That a bulky package like a regis-
tered mail bag containing upwards of
£30,000 worth of notes and other arti-
cles should go astray on a train jour-
ney from Melbourne to Sydney,-shakes
one’s confidence in the methods of the
Postal Department.
JoV>*
b reared 'to \v
die
di'foVr m
de |We of-
-j#e
O* 1
x
o' 4^
<V*>*
V
you*l2y ,c *© TWas I Spo3&
«o °\ GP ° **"*>
Stolen
w,n,rv«t
O eleven ch,l f A*
, J> M t € « y O£A whvrui «<> i- >
,'|l reduce come ( / -/
a deputation representing alt the chief _
ciuntry interests of Victoria waited upon
the Premier and Minister for Railways, j
and complained of losses through a
shortage of railway trucks. Mr. Murray ,
replied that, though the Commissioners
were to some extent blamable, pros-
perity had come over the country like a
deluge.
BOOKMAKERS' CLUB OPENED
In his introductory speech Mr. Kirk
said it had not been easy to secure
satisfactory club accommodation. Sev-
eral possible lessors had “ died on their
hands'' when they learned that the
roortis were to be used by bookmakers.
must" "be judged
by t&e
Keej?
'ffcmi cr ’ — D—- •
/
W OrK
OV
The State Cabinet the other day gave
further consideration to its proposals
for the importation of domestic servants
from Ureat Britain. Ministers agreed
that the Premier (Mr. Murray) should,
while in England, give his personalat-
tention to arranging the details. * fte '
I the meeting, Mr. Murray said that an
effort would be made to secure only a
I few carefully selected girls at first, in
I order to test the practicability of the
I scheme. Great care would be taken to
I get the' right sort of girl.
7&ye
(retrjie-K
**te*fr©v>
° v ’ e
ife n SVT So/f
REGENTS
PARK
(KiiFoFFrH?CRa
— Ar© yow 'fired) William f
— 'A\o"tA Vit^
.. we want amity,” said Mr. T. Hogg,
the president. •* We want sincere love
between employer and employee.”
MURRAY AND THE MURRAY STATE.


Lewis & Whitty’s Harness Dressing
(BLACK OR TAN)
Gives a brilliant finish, preserves and nourishes Buggy
or Motor Hoods, Harness, Leggings and all Leather Goods.
LEWIS & WHITTY,
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY. [S
McKENZIE’S EXCELSIOR BAKING POWDER.
DIAMONDS
REDUCED
ENORMOUSLY.
The New Long- Brooch, selected Diamonds and Centre Pearl, £7/7/-
For six months we will offer Diamonds in Rings and Pendants, and Jewellery generally, at prices never
before attempted in Australia.
WHY? Well, we have undertaken a Sole Agency that calls for an enormous output, and we are
offering all Diamond goods at merely a commission on the actual cost.
It will pay us, because of the advertisements and the increase of customers.
Plain Figures
Cash.
]'
Fairfax & Roberts,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
SOMETHING TO BE THANKFUL FOR.
1ST SPORT: “Never hit a blanky thing all day. Never had such hard hick in me life.
2ND SPORT: " Hard luck! Why , dammit , you just missed me twice. D' you call
that hard luck?”
The S. Aus. branch of the Geographical
Society is urging that all available evidence relating
to the possible fate of Leichhardt in 1848 should be
garnered while natives who were about then are still
living. Warden Lionel Gee, on his visit to Tanami
goldfield, discussed the question with many bushmen,
including “Jimmy” Cullen, who had got from old
blackfellows a yarn about a white party with “bul-
locks which stood on their hind legs and ate the
bushes.” That sounds remarkably like the goats
which Leichhardt admittedly had, and the Geographi-
cal Society thinks that the final tragedy occurred
somewhere south of the Victoria River. Carnegie’s
party in W.A. found an old-fashioned iron peg close
to the S.A. border. How does it strike “Abo.”
readers in those parts?
From a Maori gentleman with a griev-
ance : „ , , , ,
I say, Misser Bulletin, wa fo te Pakeka he make
or te talk fo te searer? Wa fo he no make some
lcorero fo te louseabout? By korry, I peen freece-
pika one, two, tree time, I know I pik te freece te
ten men, fas searer, too. Some pferrer lie too te
one huntret an eity, some pferrer te: too> huntret
I pika te freece, I swipa te poard, I run rike te
racehorse My feet he keta sore as, any ting ; werry
near I tie, I tink. Te wet tay I sear te tag, kreen
out te peA, anyting. Te searer he roaf apout, pray
te pruff, te nap, sum pferrer he pray te too-up. I
keta te terty pop te wilt; te searer he keta te ft
poun, sewen poun, werry near te ten poun te wilt.
Py korry, te searer he maka swear me too spose
I no putta te tar on te kut, he swear rike anyting.
Te Mormon he no rike it. Well, I tell you, I tink
te bes way te Palteha he melta te korero for te
louseabout —meka te utu orra same as te searer.
I say, Misser Bulletin, kapai you tell te squatter
te bes way he meka te ruk out te utu for te louse-
about too. You know te tui he rike te tin all te
same te hawk. Tat te way I talk you, now see.
You know me, Misser Etita, Porotaka.
“The Ancient” : Some fish stories, per-
sonally vouched for: —
Years ago I once went to Broken Bay with Liv-
ingston Hopkins and William Macleod, and while
drifting for flathead towards Great Mackerel Beach
in Bill Bolton’s boat, my line was broken by a
heavy fish. We landed on the beach for lunch, and
after staying an hour or so re-crossed the bay and
resumed drifting. At the first lower I caught a big
flathead, which had in its jaw the identical wire-
mounted hook and improvised sinker that I had
lost before lunch. To the truth of this yarn there
are still four witnesses, all at least partially alive.
What are the odds against such a thing occurring?
How often has it happened since the stars were hung
out in Heaven? Bill Bolton, who is still on deck,
not long ago told it at Newport to yours truly
(whom he did not at the time recognise) as a per-
sonal experience.
My excuse for starting fish stories is that I notice
with regret that the old Bulletin office,, a holy place
to me, is now a fishing-tackle shop—which will lead
to scoffers remarking that the place always was
a resort of liars.
Walking down Queen-street, Brisbane, one day
last year, I entered Bond’s ironmongery with Jack
Hamilton, an old friend of far-northern days. While
Jack stood at the counter inspecting a new auto-
matic pistol,, there entered a long man, thin as a
shadow turned sideways, with: “I say, mister,
gimme Some schnapper hooks.” The shopman
reached down a box and handed out a sample, the
shank of which the customer put between his teeth
and calmly bit through. “Them’s too soft,” said he
gently, as he deposited the pieces on the counter.
“Let us try them bright 6 O’s.” The bright No.
6’s were produced, and shared the same fate —the
first one taken out of the box was bitten in halves
by the human leather-jacket, who departed without
making a purchase. Three living witnesses to that!
Not long ago a 14ft. 6in. tiger-shark was caught
in Port Hacking, with jaws wide enough to admit
the broadest human. (Jem Mann, the burly old-
time Melbourne oarsman, measured his shoulders
with the monster’s mouth.) In that shark’s stomach
were found a mop, a piece of soap, an unopened tin
of “bully” beef, made shiny by the big fish’s digest-
ive process, the shoulder-half of a side of bacon
and a coil of woman’s hair. The beef, when opened,
was found to be perfectly good. The Sydney Meat
Preserving Cb. probably never had a better testi-
monial.
“Mongailu” stands the responsibility for
this :
Apparently ‘‘Snooker’s” disbelief of “Conda-
mine’s” statement that 2000 rabbits can exist and
thrive for seven months on a rocky, sandy hill-top
is based merely on the ground that nothing is cor-
rect unless seen with one’s own eyes. Well, I
haven’t seen “Condamine’s” hill-top, but I believe
his statement, and support it witli another that, not
for seven months only, but for double that number
of years, rabbits have existed and thrived on a
small speck in mid-ocean called Nepean Island (not
far distant from Norfolk Island), where there is no
water, and where grass is a scarce commodity. Here
bunnv exists, thrives, and apparently enjoys life to
its fullest extent. In order to sustain that life the
animals apparently dine on one another.
THE A WEAL TO MU JIM.
The Health Faddist: “AW’, then, he a man, and give up tea ."
“Fore and Aft” spins a yarn or some-
thing:—
The curse of “The Flying Dutchman” is still upon
the seas, despite the allegation that when a piece of
the Cross was put aboard the infernal ship she
crumbled into dust. Maybe; but Vanderdecken is
still at large! I met him first when I was second on
one of the Gold Flag boats, running out of Liver-
pool to Capetown. My introduction to Van occurred
one night on the bridge where he was standing his
wheel and muttering to himself. For a while I took
no notice, but suddenly he cried aloud: “Mein Gott,
we’ll nefer round der Cape,” and spun the wheel hard
over. I forget what I said to him, but I remember
punctuating the remarks with a handspike. Down
over the wheel he cowered, whimpering, “It is no
goot-—no goot; der Cape” “Shut up, you
Dutch swine,” I roared, thoroughly enraged, and
swiped at his head. I saw the skin split open along
his forehead —but no blood flowed. It scared me bad.
and at 4 a.m., when I was relieved by the chief, I
told him of the incident. lie said, “Try a tonic;
it’s better than whisky 1” I let it go at that, but I
left the ship at Capetown. Six months later she
was lost on Roast Beef Island, off German South-
West Africa. Then came my next meeting with the
Curse —this time along the front of Darling Harbor,
Sydney. I grabbed him as he was passing, and said:
“See here, you, were you on the when she went
ashore?” “No,” he answered; “it is no goot—no
goot; nefer double der Cape.” He told me he had
crossed from London in an Orient boat and was going
back rated as an A.B. on the Waratah. That was
her last trip, and I believe Vanderdecken went with
her, just as I believe he was on the other boat.
Nevertheless, I sau> him again. He was moving
along the shipping of a big Maoriland port, looking
haggard and old. I called him, and he turned and
laughed like a skull rolling in a coffin. “Nefer
round dot Cape,” he said; “it’s no goot.” I
watched him disappear amongst the mounds of
cargo, and a chill of regret swept over me that I had
not killed him with the marline spike when I first
met him. Perhaps it was impossible.
* * *
“D. 5.,” from Pinnaroo (S.A.) :
Few people have any idea of what is being done
in the S. Aus. mallee country, situated between the
Murray and the Victorian border, or of the fortunes
that are being founded: The district was opened up
about five years ago by the construction of a light
railway, beginning near Tailein Bend, on the Ade-
laide-Melbourne line, and running easterly to within
three and a half miles of the border. Some of the
poorest men who selected (and in many cases they
were very poor) can now count their thousands.
Many who arrived with swags are already enquiring
about the price of motor-cars.
The land itself from Wow Wow Plains (now
Lameroo) on to the border and beyond, is good
wheat-growing country, easily cleared, and for the
first couple of seasons does not require ploughing;
a disc cultivator does all the tickling that is neces-
sary, the soil being loose, with a red clay sub-soil
to retain the moisture.
Among the lucky landholders are “Larry” O’Lough-
lin, an ex-State Minister, who has 10,000 acres, and
R. W. Foster, M.H.R., with 4000 acres. At Mur-
rayville, 17 miles east of Pinnaroo, some quarter-
acre township blocks were sold by auction last June
and brought up to £l6O, or £640 per acre. And
this is only one of the townships which serve what
was looked on as desert until a few years ago. The
man of great faith who battled hardest for the rail-
way and the opening up of the big district was
James Byrnes, wljo may be said to have blazed the
track into Pinnaroo. He won’t get a monument in
stone and brass. The great and growing stacks of
wheat in the station-yards and at the sidings suit
his style of beauty a lot better.
“Silas Snell”: T was alluvial mining on
a small Tasmanian field, and -my nearest neighbor
was Ned Micken. Micken was the most melancholy
man 1 have ever known. He was stoking at one
of the big mines, and lived alone in a rough bark
hut. Micken was lugubrious about everything, espe-
cially about the weather, his boots, and his meals.
His footwear and his food always disagreed with
him. But he had a romantic explanation for his
woe. One day, after sitting in my hut for four
hours, indulging in a fit of hideous depression, he
said: “I wasn’t always like this, you know. I’ve
bin crossed in love. Three weeks come Sundee Mrs.
Carrol refused to marry me.” A few days later I
noticed that Micken was carrying a thicker atmo-
sphere of gloom than usual. He put his head in at
the door as i was at tea, and said: “Bin crossed in
love agin. Miss Stevens.” Then he groaned hor-
ribly, and passed on. Within a fortnight Micken
was sunk in blackest woe. I got it through the
window this time. “Crossed in love agin. Miss
Carver.” In the course of three months Micken
was crossed in love seven times, and each misfortune
seemed to deepen his harrowing, sorrow-logged con-
dition. Then came the Sunday when yells of con-
sternation drew a presssure of population to Micken’s
hut. The melancholy man had been found hanging
by the neck. He was cut down, and prompt and
energetic treatment restored him to his miseries. His
first words on recovering speech were—“ Mrs. Dun-
stan’s agreed to marry me!” Thus cruelly robbed
of his pet sorrow, he had decided that life wasn’t
worth living.
* * * *
“.Tack Jay” : Don’t know anything about
rabbits being able to live without food or water,
but how’s this for a cat? The big steamer Kaik-
oura, bound from Capetown to Maoriland, missed
its Persian tabby on the day of sailing (11/2/’ll),
and only discovered her on arrival, 29 days later.
She had got into the powder magazine, and must
have been without food or drink all the time.
There was no sign of rat near her, and she did not
appear to have- eaten any of the explosives. Still
she was alive, though not exactly lively, and is
now doing well.
“Wang”: I am with “Palumpas” heart
and soul, pen and inkbottle, when he puts in a word
for the unfortunate State children grafting on
dairy farms. There is no exaggeration in his
statement that he met a boy of 11 on his way to
school after he (the boy) had extracted fluid from 19
cows that morning. Take my own case. I was
a State kid. I left school when I was 12 years old,
and a watching cow-cockv grabbed me for his own.
Twice a day, regularly, I had to milk a dozen cows
(and many a time I have had to milk the whole 22
in the boss’s herd); feed and yoke up the neddy;
load up the milk, and cart it off three miles to the
creamery, besides indulging in such pastimes as
lighting the fire, feeding the fowls, etc. , and nar\
a bite of breakfast till I had returned home from
the creamery. I will swear an affidavit to this any
day, and, further, will take any doubting reader to
the doorstep of the slave-driver who owned me —a
poor, helpless, friendless kid —if he likes to pay my
expenses.
OUT OF IT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When I hear of collisions and earthquakes and things
That make folks unhappy in all sorts of places,
When I read of the scamps that assassinate kings,
Or go to the dogs with the geegee that races ,
When I’m told of adventures diverting and sweet
That fall to some fellows right here in my street,
Or of fortunes that come to plump deans in old
minsters
Because they’ve been patient with snappy old
spinsters,
I am always surprised beyond measure, you see,
Because such things, somehow, don’t happen to me.
There’s Boggles, repentant, who went to the fold,
And became a good Methodist till the fit left him,
But ere he relapsed wooed a widow with gold
In an excellent heap, which (soon dying) she left
him ;
There’s Winkle, who saved from a horrible smash
A damsel delicious, although she’d no cash ;
There was Bungle, poor devil, who, dull as an ox,
eyed
A stranger, and kissed her, and died of peroxide.
Perhaps it’s as well, as I think you’ll agree,
That things of that kind never happen to me.
Then there’s Slinker, a bounder, who bounds day
and night,
Who was nabbed by the police, but got big com-
pensation
(Although he’d committed the arson all right) ;
And there’s Spoof, who gets fat by misleading a
nation ;
And as to fat Boodle —well, that makes me sick,
For he purchased a wild-cat, and still was so slick
That before you could drown a small litter of
poodles
He’d made twenty thousand by rooking the
noodles —
It seems dreadfvdly hard, it’s as hard as can be,
But things of that sort never happen to me.
Ah, well, on the whole, I’m not greatly cast down,
For there’s Bleary, who married a shrew, who so
oddly
Has cowed him to death with her terrible frown
That he’s had to stop smoking and tried to live
godly; .
There’s Clutterbuck, too, who once wrote dainty
verse,
Was gored by a bull and removed in a hearse;
While as for old Skippit, who used to cut capers,
He’s called “a great man” in respectable papers—
So I chuckle and chortle with natural glee,
For I’m glad that such things never happen to me.
MAORILAND.
FRANK MOUTON.


Carters
1 Bitti f •
■ITTLE
IVER
PILLS.
Your Liver
is Clogged Up
That’s Why You’re Tired—Out of
Sorts —Have No Appetite.
CARTER'S LITTLE LIVER PILLS
■will put you rmlit in a few days.
They do their duty. Cure Consti-
pation, Biliousness, Indigestion, and
Sick Headache.
Small Pill, Small Dose, Small Price.
GENUINE must bear Signature
PLASMON
is the essential food I have so long wished
for, and I would never be without it.”
EUGEN SANDOW.
Australian Depot: 5& 7 Barrack St, Sydney.
The Royal Hotel,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Most centrally situated Hotel in Sydney.
Best place to lunch and dine in town.
J. W. COCKBAINE, Proprietor.
Noticeable among the many features of
the Scientific Australian are views of the first
aeroplane flight over Government House, Melbourne,
the “Olympic” before launching, a new rail planing
machine, fireloss cooking, and also diagrams showing
progress in flight and how aviation accidents are
caused. The letter-press is bright, interesting
articles appearing on tools for trains, adding type-
writers, slack coal boilers, paper from sugar cane,
“what the world is doing,” and a page entitled
“Coming.” 2s. 6d. per annum, from Phillips
Ormonde, 266 Flinderg-street (Elevator), Melbourne.*
Aching Back,
The bane alike of the housewife and of th«
working man. In some cases every movement of
the body is accompanied by a sharp, stabbing
pain in the small of the back, and in others,
the pain is dull and continuous. These are
symptoms of kidney disease. Arrest its pro-
gress by using Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills, which
will act in a surprisingly prompt manner. Price
Is. (}d. and 2s. 6d.*
“Dunno”: “Pick” (B. 2/3/T1) asks if
any bloke, fellow or cow can better the view that
may be obtained from Stony Cutting, at the top of
Brown Mountains, looking down the Bemboka Val-
ley (N.S.W.). I can try. You cross an aged,
heavilv-built wooden bridge; and having paid tne
customary toll to the ancient hermit on the hill-side
shanty, stray as your mood inclines you, either along
the gold-dappled crest above, or down amidst the
deep-green shadows near the water’s edge. Reclin-
ing here in the cool on a still summer’s day, through
the heavy festoons of willow foliage that listlessly
caressed the limpid river’s surface, I have seen into
the shaded interior of the old open-built distillery
on the far bank. Occasionally across the smooth ex-
panse of shimmering blue there drifted a breath of
Bacchanalian fragrance, which but served to move
the senses to a keener appreciation of this sylvan
oasis, far from the heat and glare of the outer world.
Nor were these realms left unknown and unappreci-
ated by that world-wearied bard (now resting) whose
song has since endeared him in the hearts of those
Australians who can feel; and more than one sad-
souled, childish dreamer of the slums has here found
a dreamland of rest and romance: for strangely
enough it is situated in that unlovely environment
known as Collingwood, sometimes called by the name
of its rarer atmosphere—Abbotsford. The old bridge
has long since gone the way of all things; but
through a tangle of lank, straggling weeds, masses of
purple-splashed creeper and a frail forest of green
and silver saplings of later birth, the remains of the
old distillery still stand, its cool, lengthy lofts, and
the deep silence of its empty vats, invaded only by
the scented breezes imparted from its old friend the
hill. And now, ascend those wattle-flamed heights
and gaze into the opposite distance. Far below,
the river reappears—a winding, green-fledgtd ribbon
of blue and silver. From its further banks spread
the wide and peacefully picturesque fields and gardens
of the convent; and often from here, in the rose-
tinted twilight Oh! away, ye sad-eyed ghosts 1
Bring me a beer!
* » * *
“Condot”: A semi-official effort is being
made to ascertain the heights of tall trees in Aus-
tralia. Prof. Ewart, Victorian Government Botan-
ist, has received from H. J. Elwes, F.R.S., Chelten-
ham (Eng.), a letter asking for the information. I
believe the tallest tree yet measured in Vic. is, or
was, 302 ft. high. The late Prof. Kernot measured
it. As it grew on the edge of a ridge—not the
most favorable spot for development—-probably trees
considerably taller may be found. The tallest
tree recorded on good authority in America is a se-
quoia sempervirens, which measured 340 ft. in 1896.
It is said that, on the slopes of the Baw Baw (V.)
ranges, there are many blackbutt trees 300 ft. high,
but this is guesswork. In Beech Forest, too, there are
hundreds of giants. A few years ago a six-roomed
hotel was built of the timber cut from one of these
vegetables. Another yielded 9000 six-foot palings.
When the racecourse was made at Beech Forest, the
stump of what must have been an enormous tree
was cut level and floored, and used as a grandstand.
The hail-fellow-well-met Marquis of Linlithgow,
when G.-G. of Australia, visited the forest township,
and on this grandstand danced in a set with the
wife of Jack Gardiner, the oldest inhabitant.
A BASE INSINUATION.
PARSON : “I suppose your husband OUGHT to
be out soon, Mrs. Sloggin."
MRS. SLOGGIN : “ None of yer bloomin’ in-
sinuations, Mister. 'Ow d'yer think I got
me black hi?”
“Stan”: The swagmen in Queensland,
when “J. 5.8.” (B. 9/2/’ll) was on the road, must
have been mighty men if they could hump a 7ft.
matilda around. The traveller nowadays declines
anything more than a light bundle, generally con-
taining a single blanket (which is often shed with
the arrival of summer), a few changes, mosquito net
and small miscellany. Round this is wrapped the
tent and fly—not always in company—the whole lot
not exceeding 3ft. in length. Bind the lady up with
three straps—even two will do —pass a tomahawk
through the straps, and she is ready for the track.
That is the swag of Queensland.
A “ STRANGER'S ” BRAND.
BLACK MARY (pointing to vaccination scars): “Same fellow brand on piccaninny be-
longing Bullocky Bill."
“Sliprail”: Re snake-bite. The “mind
over matter cure,” taken in conjunction with either
strychnine, chloride of lime, or the permanganate
cure, will generally prevent a man from being
counted out. The trouble is that people make up
their minds they are done for, and the snake gets
a long handicap. Here is one instance of the
powerful antidote the mind providesA local
farmer was bitten by a snake while shepherding.
He drove the jumbucks home, paddocked them, tied
his dog up, and, as tea was on, took his place at
the head of the table, informing his family, as a
sort of grace before meat, that he had been bitten
on the leg by a snake. He absolutely refused to
be bustled. “Might be the last ifeed I will ever
get, so I might as well have a good one,” he philo-
sophically remarked. After tea he went out, oiled
the buggy, and took the horse to the dam for a
drink preparatory to driving 12 miles to town. His
wife tried to get him straight to the doctor’s sur-
gery, but he insisted on “shouting” for a couple
of friends, reminding the half-frantic woman that
it might be his last chance of doing so. The doctor
applied the usual remedies, and advised him not to
go to sleep, but the casual coolly informed the medi-
cal man that he had not been out of bed after 10
o’clock for 40 years, and that he didn’t intend to
start altering his habits because he had happened
to be bitten by a reptile. Next morning he was
as right as pie. Moral: Once bitten, keep spry.
* * * *
The S. Aus. Ornithological Association
: lias turned out several pairs of mallee fowl (Leipoa
ocellata) on Kangaroo Island, in the great national
reserve at Cape Borda. The mound-raising bird is
being rapidly wiped out by foxes on the mainland,
and, as no other continent owns him, it is thought
that the island is his only chance of being seen by
posterity. The Government and the Marine Board
helped in the good work.
* * * *
“Vagabond”: “Bash” is barking up the
wrong gum when he laughs the loud ha-ha of scorn
at the carters and milk-ohs who decorate their gee-
gee’s topknots with sun-hats (B. 16/3/’ll). If you
caught one of the gents, mentioned and held him
down while you read him “Bash’s” remarks about
“circulatory congestion,” and “evaporation of per-
spiration,” and “blocking radiation,” and then re-
vived him with a long beer and got him confidential,
he would explain that he would really as soon expect
his four-legged friend to develop housemaid’s knee
as sunstroke. Possibly he puts the horse-umbrella
up because it is fashionable nowadays—as an orna-
ment, it is rather classy and looks well with the
brass plates and things he spends so much spare time
in polishing up. But more likely he does it for the
same good reason that the brainy boss of a big
Yankee store paid attention to the poo-er dumb
animals’ comfort —to get on the soft side of his
women and old-women men customers. It wouldn’t
surprise me a ha’porth if the milk- and bottle-oh
blokes had found that the ladies preferred to give
encouragement, and orders, and bottles to the kind
man who was so thoughtful for his poor horse, in-
stead of to that callous ruffian who didn’t care if the
sun was hot enough to fry his nag’s head to a
fricassee, or heat up his brain-box till the inside
melted and bubbled over and ran out of his nose.
“Jonnel” : The Mount Morgan system of
“chewing” or “running the cutter” is, as far as I can
ascertain, unique in Australia. A party or syndi-
cate of. miners on their way home from toil take
turn about to provide the nimble sprat; a billy-can
is cleaned of tea tannin at a convenient trough, and,
in return for the sixpence, is filled by Mr. Public
House. The syndicate does the rest. Old hands carry
a cheese-rind in their crib bags, and carefully and
knowingly “cheese” round William Can’s top to the
depth of an inch or more, some wily soaker in the
dim past having discovered that cheese prevents the
useless and wasteful “head” rising. It beats me how
a publican can afford to fill some of the oil-drums
that are passed over as billies, but woe to the one
who discriminates. By the way, can anybody give
the origin-of the saying, “Running the cutter”?
1ST PUSHITE : "Snorter’s 'ooked."
2ND PUSHITE : “ Eli'me ! Wot, spliced? ”
1ST PUSHITE: “ No, pinched.”
“Johnnie” : While going to boil the billy
near Stonehenge (N.S.W.) last week, I happened to
see a fine specimen of the tiger variety of snake get-
ting into his happy home. Proceeded to burst the
home with a shovel. After despatching father, I
spotted ma’s tail. A few shovelfulls more, and I had
sent her the same way. My Sherlock Holmes sus-
picions being aroused, I dissected the lady, and
brought to light 38 baby snakes from nine to 12
inches long. So I finished 40 “tigers” in five
minutes —and it was a fortnight from the last pub,
too.
“Yalgun”: It happened this way, but
quicker. Fencer on Orara River (N.S.W.) split-
ting ironbark rails. Lifted one. Dropped it.
Yelled, “ Hell’s bellows. Black snake bit me
finger.” Seized axe, cut it off. Mate poured rum
down injured man’s funnel, and ran him up and
down for 1 hour 36 minutes. Declared him cured.
Went back to collect severed knuckle-bone. Found
the ironbark splinter embedded in the flesh. So
long.
* » * «
“L.S.” (from the MeSolomon Islands) .
I’d go so far as to bet drinks that it was the Scotch
who discovered the Solomon Islands and not the
Spaniards. For one thing, the hraw strong accent
of the nigger bears me out;
for another, the niggers’ fav-
orite ' instrument bears a
marked resemblance to the
bagpipes. Anyhow, the is-
lands have improved the
Macs-; —made them brighter
and given them a taste for
humor in between whiskies.
There was, for instance, the
case of the irrepressible
McZ., a Resident Magistrate,
who looked on the wine irre-
spective of color. When
H.M.S. Cambrian called to
take Mac to another island
to conduct an enquiry, the
commander instructed him to
be on board at 8 sharp. Mac
turned up at 8.10. The com-
mander, who was furious,
greeted him with: “Mr.
MacZ, there is one man in
the world can keep this ship
waiting—his Majesty King
Edward.” MacZ placed his
hand over his heart, blushed
modestly, and made a deep
bow. “Sir,” he said, “you
flatter me.” I am inclined to
think the natives will even-
tually become Presbyterian,
judging by the reception
given lately to a Wusslean
missionary, who started in
to convert them. The Rev.
Wire Whiskers, at the head
of his mission boys, descend-
ed upon the devil-devil house,
and marched round and
round singing hymns. In re-
taliation, the niggers sur-
rounded the chapel next time
the Rev. W. Whiskers was
praying for the conversion of
the heathen into good Ker-
istians, with the tray-bit
habit well developed, and
deafened the audience by
lambasting empty kerosene
cans and other unmusical in-
struments. The parson and
his congregation tried to sing
the row down, but after 25
minutes’ battle the towel was
thrown in, and the niggers,
who hadn’t worked so hard
since they chased the last
Wesleyan missionary over 10
miles o f rough country,
crowned the victory with a
feast. The Rev. Whiskers
wasn’t on the menu, but a few
days later he was urged to scoot if he didn’t want to
follow the soup next time. So he scot. That brings
me to this point—Were the Scotch people cannibals
at any time in past history ? I’m a long way off,
but I would be much obliged for reliable informa-
tion on this matter.
DROVER’S GIRL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
She smiles a brave farewell, though her lips refuse
to speak;
He feels her small hand tremble as he holds it
tight;
lie sees the color fade from her sun-browned cheek
As he speaks about his journey in the morning-
light.
Oh ! the drover
Is a rover
The wide land over
On the highways and byways that a bushman
knows,
And his line of least resistance
Leads afar into the distance. . . .
But there’s someone’s heart will follow him
where’er he goes!
By the little wayside towns and the shanties lone,
Across the ’lignum swamps and the dried-up
creeks,
Through miles of dreary scrub—where the sheoaks
moan,
From night-camp to night-camp througli long,
long weeks
He is shifting,
And drifting
Through the dust-clouds lifting—
Oh! the drover is a sailor and the bush his sea,
And, in port a lass is waiting
With a faith all unabating,
“But the boldest have gone down in a gale! ’’
says she.
She gets a letter (written by a flickering light),
She reads it in the twilight as she walks alone;
And once more her cheeks are flushed and her eyes
are bright
As she reads about a cottage “when the droving’s
done.”
Oil! the drover
Is a rover
The wide land over!
But he’s dreaming of someone where the star
lamps burn;
And her sky is growing clearer ;
For each night-camp finds him nearer—
God speed her drover-lover to a safe return!
N.S.W.
RIVERINA.


AN EASTER EGG.
THE BIRD: "Well, I think I’ve grown a bit since I was hatched, but I’m afraid there’s a good deal
of the shell sticking to me yet.”


GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
WORLD-FAMED
For
QUALITY.
HATS.
Fox*
DURABILITY,
THE
RIGHT DRINK
*
On a Sea Voyage.
•—-—«♦
It has heen found by many people that one of the
best drinks aboard ship is the non-alcoholic O.T.
This beverage is a stomachic of undoubted merit,
whose action tones the stomach, aids digestion
and prevents the unpleasant sensations of nausea
which accompany sea-sickness.
For the tropical regions O.T. has proved a par-
ticularly safe drink, as it derives beneficial pro-
perties from certain ingredients much used by the
inhabitants of hot climates to resist fevers, dysen-
tery and other inflammatory complaints. O.T.
carries the endorsement of the highest medical
and analytical authorities, and is now obtainable
in any part of the world.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
A prophet hath honor in his own country
—if he has a good press agent. Thus on Tait’s
return to Canada, after the Sunshine and Ricli-
m jnd catastrophes, this scream has been travelling
r mnd :
During the period of his engagement in Victoria he
placed the railway system on a sound and assured hasis,
and he leaves it in a condition unexcelled by that of any
system elsewhere. What he achieved, in the face of many
difficulties occasioned hy the near-sighted and slipshod
p >licv pursued before his arrival, is abundantly acknow-
-1 :dged by the authorities of Victoria.
In fact, Tait’s policy was so far-sighted that
already the railways not only find themselves
utterly unable to handle the traffic by reason of
the starved condition of the rolling stock, but declare
that the shortage is so tremendous that it will be
impossible to supply the requirements from local
works in time to save huge waste and loss.
GEORGE FOWLDS, MINISTER OF
EDUCATION (ML.).
James Gear, tlie meat man, who died at
Wellington (M.L.)'recently, was one of the old
adventurers who rushed to the Gabriel’s Gully
(Otago) goldfields from Australia in 18G1. He
arrived in Melbourne from the Old Dart in 1857,
and worked as a butcher till a few years later the
gold fever sent him across the Tasman. At
Gabriel’s he had no luck, so he made his way to
Wellington, where he returned to the dead-
carcase trade, and worked up one of the biggest
businesses in the quaking islands—the < ear Meat
Preserving and Freezing Co., Ltd. He was 75
when Death called round with his order.
Leaving Sydney l»y the Mooltan, on May
6, for a trip to London. John Jack Leete, the
manager of the Tivoli Theatre (Sydney). Over
20 years ago Harry Rickards imported him from
Egypt, where he had been having his fill of ad-
venture and damaging his health. As a boy
Leete went from Britain to Egypt, thence
to Zinzibar, and back again to Egypt, where
he entered the railway service
and rose, in 1881, to be travel-
ling inspector. In the 1882
Egyptian war he was attached
to Lord Charles Beresford at
Alexandria as interpreter, and
afterwards was sent to Ismalia
to take charge of the loco, de-
partment under Major Hollis,
of the Royal Engineers, then
director of railways. Leete
says that it was Commander
Maude, of H.M.S. Temeraire,
and not Fisher (afterwards
First Sea Lord), who originated
the armored train. Maude
suggested that Leete should fix
up a train that would carry a
gun an 1 protect its crew, and
Leete said lie could do his
['art if Maude could overcome
the recoil of the gun. Maude
replied that there was no diffi-
culty in that, and on reaching
headquarters reported the pro-
posal to Captain John Fisher. Next
day Maude was transferred to the
Mediterranean, and Fisher came to the
workshops and had the ironclad put in hand at
once.
Suggested motto for louseph Ward’s new
crest, if George V. creates him a baronet, as is sus-
pected : “A loan I did it! ”
A Melbourne bookmaker preserves the
skull of the convict Maloney, hanged in Tasmania
after committing countless crimes, and buried in
the old Port Arthur cemetery.
Died lately, in London, H. J. Thompson,
an Australian-born journalist who was among the
first of the tribe to move into the big city of the
Fog, where for some years he represented The
Bulletin.
A suit for slander and assault which a
“ Liberal ” organiser brought the other day had a
diverting finish. The official assignee stepped in
and garnisheed the damages. So the opponent of
lawlessness and confiscation merely shed the gore
of his nose on behalf of ravening creditors.
The Ayrshire (Scotch) Miners’ Union
will banquet Prime Minister Fisher during his
visit to George V.. in commemoration of the fight
he put up as a district secretary of the union
in a trade dispute. Fisher was afterwards black-
listed by the employers, and came to Australia to
look for a job. He got it.
“ Bill ” Squires has got his punch back !
He delivered the goods at the Sydney
Agricultural Show last week before a big “gate,”
and outed one Pollock thus :
Wheat, strong, white, three bushels.—W. Squires,
variety Comeback, grown at resumed area, Goonoo
Goonoo, Tamworth, 1 and champion ; Smith Pollock,
variety Comeback, 2.
Hugh D. Mclntosh has since been cabled that
if he wants the Hope of the Wheat Race it’s right
here in Sydney.
The busy people who want to—presumably
—glorify God and advance Christianity by build-
ing a sky-raking spire on top of St.’ Thomas’s
Church, at North Sydney, mention the fact that
George, when out here in 1881 with his brother
princeling in the Bacchante, helped to lay the
foundation stone; wherefore the spire, to be
erected to the glory of God, would be a fitting
“kingly memorial”—and this paper won’t dis-
pute the statement. Really, a more interesting
thing about North Sydney’s St. Thomas’s is that
the Rev. W. B. Clarke, Australia’s first great
geologist, was its first minister—back in 1846.
Ararat (Vic.), the town which, years ago,
produced the gentle political dove, has lost its
most ancient identity, Janies Maclean. He
arrived from Ireland in ’57, and for nearly half a
century worked and worried as shire secretary.
Eventually he was deposed by old age, and
became numbered among the people with straight
official pasts. In lfis early youth he attended the
Monaghan Preparatory School, where Charles
Gavan Duffy was also learning a thing or two.
Joseph John Rochester, who died the
other day at Paddington (Sydney), was about the
last, bar Ted Belisario, of a remarkable group of
“business sports,” whose chief was the late
George Hill, owner of Marvel and other big
things, from pubs and theatres to coal and blue-
metal mines. In the days of Foley’s White
Horse Hotel and Boxing Hall, Rochester was a
handsome figure at the ringside, and frequently
acted as referee or timekeeper. As usual, how-
ever, he suffered for being a*“ good fellow,” and
when George Hill died and left things poorly, lie
who bad been the rich man’s factotum had to go
and hustle. And, on the whole, he was a niiglitv
poor hustler.
A. S. Meek, the modest man who knows
more about the birds, butterflies and beetles of
Psew Guinea and the South Sea Islands than any-
body else, left Thursday Island about 14 months
ago on his biggest and most dangerous expedi-
tion. He proposed to explore the Snow Moun-
tains of Dutch New Guinea and put it through
his naturalist’s net, covering grounds which only
one white party had ever got near. Not a word
had been heard of him for nine months until
Saturday, when he wired from Thursday Island:
“Left Merauke on the 6th ; arrived here 13th;
leaving for Moresby at end of month. Think the
trip has been a success. Besides meeting much
else of interest, found two new Birds of Para-
dise. Lost none of the party by accident, but
four ‘ boys ’ died from beri-beri. Received much
assistance from Dutch officials.” Presumably the
two new birds will go to enrich the collection of
Rothschild, who has first call on Meek’s “finds.”
Rev. T. H. Sprott, who is to wear the
next outfit of bishop’s millinery at Wellington
(M.L.), has been administering spiritual food in
the Dominion for 24 years past; so be ought by
this time to be a fairly good Maorilander. Any-
how, his election is a good sign of the decay of the
importing habit in a quite unexpected quarter.
Before he was a Maorilander he was an Irishman.
THE OLD STAGED.
SEEDY DINER : “ What have you got, waiter?"
WAITER : “ Some vice steak, sir, like root you
'ad yesterday
SEEDY DINER : “ Very well, bring it to me—
if no one else is using it."
Edmondson, the “Tantanoola tiger,”
threw himself on the mercy of the S. Australian
court, arid was rewarded with six years for his
weird brand of sheep-stealing. Years ago, when
the “ tiger ” first began to worry local sheepmen
(there really was a wild beast of some sort in
those days) a pub at Tantanoola was christened
“The Tiger,” and Edmondson carved the sign
for it—a figure of the beast. He was sitting
under it when he was arrested.
Moberley Bell, of London Times, was a
brother-in-law of Senator Drinkwater Chataway, of
Bananaland, having married a daughter of the late
Rev. James Chataway. Drink water has contri-
buted an occasional prosy article to the Times.
The late J. Y. Chataway, his brother, who was
Minister for Agriculture in Bananaland’s Con-
tinuous Ministry, was a frequent writer for the
Times, and also ran the Sugar Journal in
Mackay. He was tin ardent advocate of black
labor, and the surviving Chataway is a small
piece saved from the wreck of the same party.
There were two proud men at Cockatoo
Island on the day the YVarrego was launched;
but neither of them got in the limelight. One
was Cutler, the dock superintendent. Everybody
wanted a word from him; but it was the day of
the talkers, not the doers. The other was Jack
Storey, State member for Balmain, who kept on
worrying the Federal Ministers until he per-
suaded them that the alleged “ impossible ” job
of building ships in Australia was quite possible.
Those were the two —the man who persuaded the
Government that the thing could be done, and the
man who did it.
Major Harry Tomkinson, just dead in
Adelaide, was a son of one of Adelaide’s best
known families. His father, ex-bank manager
and M.L.C., remained till the end of a long life a
hard-shell Conservative who wrote regularly to
the Register to say that the Time was not yet
Ripe, and was so inflexibly honest that he always
repudiated the humorous name of “Liberal ’
which like-minded politicians were just beginning
to assume. The Major was different: he was
educated in England, a pursuer of Costs, and in his
spare time A.D.C. to commandants Owen, Downes
and Gordon. He had a tremendous capacity for
meeting with horse and other acciden ts. The most
startling was when he woke one night in his rooms,
over a city shop, to find the place on fire. It had
smouldered a long while, and just as a few jugs
from the bathroom had extinguished it he trod on
a spot where the beams had burnt through, and
landed, a badly shaken man, in the Shop below.
Latterly he had been an invalid, and the end
came at 50.
Major George Wynne, of the Sydney
Daily Telegraph editorial dept., who departs
Cqronationwards with a contingent of State
military cadets, has done a good deal of roving in his
time. At the age of 13 he ducked off to sea aboard
an old wool clipper before liis father, Watkin
Wynne, could move for a habeas corpus writ. The
ship was a long, narrow and shallow contraption,
built originally for the Peruvian blockade-running
profession, and alleged to be one of the first success-
ful submarines. According to Wynne, she dived
under at Sydney Heads and returned to the sur-
face off the Lizard (Cornwall). Her captain was
one of the sea tyrants who helped to make Frank
Bullen’s life a misery at one period, and he didn’t
make any special exception in Wynne’s case.
“Get aloft,” he used to bellow, “and if y’ must
fall, fall overboard. I don’t want no blanky mess
on my decks.” After a spell in London, Wynne
shipped back to Australia and took up press work
with the old Star, and thence passed to the Tele-
graph. When the Boxer trouble started in China
he went out to quell it with the N. S. Wales naval
contingent, wrote some fine stuff for his paper,
and hammered at official doors so consistently
that Li Hung Chang had to climb out the back
window to avoid being interviewed twice a week
by “ Wynne of Australia.” Next, he joined the
Commonwealth Light Horse that helped Cohen-
stein force Chow labor on Boerland ; and now he
is going to introduce the other George to a sec-
tion of Australia’s infantile defence.
Copy of private circular sent by eminent
Sydney counsel to certain of his friends : “Eliza-
beth-street. Dear Sir,—The 24th vol. of tny set
of Beavan’s reports and 34 Law Journal are
missing from my library. Will you kindly see if
they, or either, are or is, among your books, and
if they, or either, are or is, I should feel obliged if
you would send them, or either, to me.”
Currie Elies, of Sydney, can at last realise
his dream and rejoice, if he wants to, over Chinese
bankers in charge of an English bank in British
territory. This is from the Standard op Empirk
(17/2/11): —
Victoria (Vancouver Island): The Bank of Vancouver
will open a branch in the Chinese quarter of Victoria,
with Lim Bang as manager; Wong Yee Chan will act as
teller.
“ Monkbarns ” in the graveyard :
Jack Edwards, the Melbourne amateur actor, whose
memory has been revived by recent pars., excelled most
as Ollapod, in “The Poor Gentleman.” What a raev
comedy that was ! Jefferson acted Ollapod, but I don’t
believe his dry humor would be as racv as Jack’s unction.
Edwards may have died of Bohemianism. as alleged ; for
that was in the days of Aspinall and Dick Ireland. Bill
really he was assiduous in his legal biz. He would be
punctual at court to grapple with his favorite rivals, long
Jimmy McKean and Sam Lyons; while Gillott would
look in occasionally and Best was just beginning'. In
business, Jack was John Edw'ards the Younger.
His chief clerk was his father, John Edwards
the Elder, and a most reverend elder at that.
Attorneys nowadays are as good as or better than men
like Edwards, McKean and Lyons were ; but there is no
unction in court —all is as dry as the remainder biscuit
after a voyage. Jack’s other contemporaries, such as
Read and Frank Stephen (Chief Justice Madden’s dad-in-
law), had their peculiar unction. Magistrates now are
more precise and maiter-of fact; they won’t stand anv of
the comedian business. With Edwards and McKean on
the job the Collingwood Police Court became as funny
as Lord Chief Baron Nicholson’s Judge and Jury at the
London Coal-hole or the Cogers' Club.
The lute Jawbone Neild, an Englishman,
thought that his compatriots, unlike the Scotch and
the Irish, did not sufficiently cohere when abroad.
“I am English,” he said, “but no Englishman
will therefore vote for me. Were I Scotch
or Irish, 1 would get all the Scotch or all the Irish
vote.” Hence the departed colonel’s Society of
St. George, with its dinners, whereat, amid the
strains of inspiriting music, “ the Roast Beef of
Old England ” was ceremoniously borne aloft on
a lordly dish.
Captain Macarthur Onslow, of the 16th
Lancers, who has been appointed to the instruc-
tional staff of the Maoriland Defence Depart-
ment, is one of the Camden (N.S. W.) Onslows. He
was through the S’African campaign that was
fought for cheap Chow mine-labor—which turned
out too dear to keep—and got his captain’s stripe
or button, or whatever the implement is, in 1904.
The military spirit runs in the family. Col.
Onslow, M.L.A., is at present fighting in N. S.
Wales, shoulder to shoulder with Corporal Bruce
Smith and his A.D.C., Solemn Lee, to prevent
young Australia shooting himself with a double-
barrelled “Yes!”
Within about a month Sydney has lost its
two spikiest sets of face ornaments. Ex-Senator
Neild owned the better-known pair; he had
been cultivating his
weapons for adver-
tising purposes for
over quarter of a
century. “Char-
ley ” Gregory
owns the other
lot—of much
more recent
manufacture ;
but still very
formidable at
times. Gregory,
one of the three
famous cricketing
brothers (Dave, Ned
and Charley), has been
accountant at the Sydney G.P.O. for many years,
but has now been transferred to Melbourne.
Apropos Neild’s ornaments, alongside this is
printed a whimsical thing of Phil May’s, drawn
when the Jawbone Warrior made his famous
nine-hour speech in the N.S.W. Assembly.
The new “ batch ” of S. Australian K.C.’s
is curiously small. Since the death of Kingston.
Stuart and Baker there have been only six “silks ”
in the State—Syinon, Downer. Nesbit, Dash-
wood. Murray and Grundy. The new men are
A. W. Piper and J. R. Anderson ; and why the
powers have passed over Patrick Glynn, Federal
politician, inter-State pleader and literary expert,
is a dark mystery. Piper and Anderson are both
old State schoolboys who got into Prince Alfred
College with scholarships and worked their way
up. Both are now about 45, and have tried un-
successfully to get into Parliament. But there
the resemblance ends. “Jim” Anderson is
chairman of the Adelaide Racing Club and
of the S. A. Football League, and ex-partner
and son-in-law of Judge Gordon. All thieves
who can his fees afford rely on his orations.
Piper is of a different type, rather frequent in S.A
—son of a Methodist minister, and warm sup-
porter of all sports except racing. His law is all
on the Civil side. Although he is content to be
known as junior partner in the firm of Bakewell
and Stow, when the Perth City Council fell out
with the local gas co. over the question of pur-
chase-money, it was Piper who was sent for,
regardless of expense, to arbitrate. The differ-
ence between the two new K.C.’s is perhaps
quickest shown by this : Anderson is “Jim” on
everybody’s tongue, but men who know Piper
fairly well would be puzzled to tell you whether
he is Alfred or Abinadab.
THE LIBERAL CELLAR-MAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
An occasion so great must awe the most light-hearted,
and the one consideration I must crave is that you shall
pardon me if the very nature of this subject and the
nanner in which one and all approach it renders me
d ill, dry and uninteresting.— Deakin, in an Anti-
lie/'erend a speech.
Nay, Alfred, you are never dull !
How can you say such things?
Yon soar and dive like any gull
That still retains its wings ;
Your speeches never could be dry,
They fizzle like champagne
(Perhaps that is tlie reason why
No body they contain).
Each is a sparkling drink, no less,
And spits like any cat ;
Each for an hour may effervesce—
But, then, it must go fiat;
The morning sheet, howe’er it tries
To tightly cork each line,
Ne’er brings to us the bead which flies
From Deakin’s Ileady Wine.
When Deakin, Eib'ral Cellar-man,
Hands round his lovely booze,
No single soul is there who can
The flowing howl refuse ;
But only dull and stupid men
Will keep it on the shelf;
The stuff is only decent when
Alf pours it out himself.
x s.w.
HORATIO THIRSTS.


m
m
Wgm
1
m
m
. nfl
ij | I 1 g
aSSffiSS
m
m
■
T%
m
mm
as
r
mm
l H
8388
1
r#
V ..
■ sasa
J 1
: 5
•’ ' ■
r ■-v r '‘
\S ; ,>
& ; k- i*
£ \ !
mim Kg
W V* -
4- .*? it
iilliiai
■
mm
m
i»‘ 11
tfiStSl
Hh
•' V.'
m
: m
mmm
S' . t - v.
m v ‘i
?m- 1 .' v ;.^>.'.
SJ
3 <£
T'
Y:rn
m 1
w
rr t ■ ■ ■ ViM f 1
" Suppose a Monarch chanced to roam,
And left his Sunday suit at home.
What would he do ? What would he say ?
How would he manage ? Tell me pray ?
" "Well, let me tell you, he would go
And buy a suit from—well, you know I
He'd go to Go wings', like the rest
Of those who know when they're well dressed.
OUR Austral Suit is the outcome of years of thought and experience. Since 1868 we have
made a special study of every detail in men’s tailoring, with the result that out Austial buits
are now acknowledged as unequalled for cut, finish, quality and wear; indeed, we keep ten
cutters constantly going. We have also made a feature of Australian I weeds, and specialise in
Vicars’ Marrickville, which carry their own recommendation, being “ all-wool, pure wool, and
nothing but wool.” 1111
We quote 635., 70s. and 755. machine made, and 845., 905., 955. and 105 s. hand made.
r\lso Ladies’ Costumes to measure from £6 6s.
If you cannot call, drop a post-card, and we will send you a full range oi patterns and seli-
measurement form. We pay carriage on all orders thioughout Austiahn.
While in Sydney, call and let us register your measure for future reference, and see our
immense stock of materials.
GOWING BROS.,
Pioneer Distributors of Australian Goods,
486, 488, 490" George Streets and
7,9, 11,13, 15 and 17 Royal Arcade, Sydney.


IVTOTICE TO SAWMILLERS.
Double Cylinders—
■ln stock in Sydney, 2 “ Robey ” 1911 Model Portable Steam Engines
25 Nominal H.P. ( 87 Brake Horse-Power),
30 Nominal H.P. (105 Brake Horse-Power).
Those requiring' prompt delivery for the most up-to-date Portabl - Engine should communicate with
ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER & CO.
Circular Quay (East), Sydney; or 34 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CAPE EXPLOSIVES WORKS, LTD.
Gelignite, Blasting Gelatin, Dynamite, Detonators and Fuse supplied.
WtT “NO CONNECTION WITH ANY COMBINE”
Special Coal Mining Explosives.
NOYES BROS. (SYDNEY), LTD,, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney, (Sole Agents for N.S.W.).
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Australian Metropolitan Life Assur-
ance Co., Lid. (Sydney) :
Expenses Total Added
Total and Out- to
Aug., Income. Claims. Dividends, goings. Funds.
1901 .. £11,023 £1483 £6,551 £8,034 £2989
Taken
from
Funds.
1902 .. 12,657 3775 13,633 17,408 4751
Added to
Fund s.
1903 .. 17,235 2380 13,879 16.259 976
1904 .. 18,146 2765 13,964 16,729 1417
1905 .. 18,547 3665 12,412 16,077 2470
Taken
from
Dec., ' Funds.
1 05 .. 6,059 2019 4,091 6,110 51
Added to
Funds.
1906 .. 21,048 5767 12,801 18.66 S 2480
1907.. 25,714 6S4S 14.737 21,585 4129
1908 .. 29,765 8281 17,144 25,425 4340
1909 .. 28,365 7866 18,070 25,936 2429
1010.. 31,278 5388 19,047 24,435 6843
The co. says its total funds are £66,561. The
amount is made up as follows: —
Total accumulated funds .. .. £29,726
Office property written up (1908) .. £10,095
Ditto (1901) 5,500
15,595
Office property written down (1902) .. 5,500
10,095
Sale of accident business and goodwill 15,000
Capital .. .. .. .. .. 11,740
Total funds £66,561
The co. was started in Brisbane, and its earlier
history was, to say the least of it, very peculiar. That
in fact, may be guessed from the way in which the
book-value of property was written up twice, and
then written down again. The net result of these
purely book-keeping transactions is that the funds
have been inflated to the extent of £10,095. The
property—office premises—may, nevertheless, be worth
£10,095 more than was paid. That, however, does
not alter the fact that of the total funds of £66,561,
as they appear in the published accounts, only
£29,726 has been provided by the insurance busi-
ness. Like this:—•
Total funds £66,561
Goodwill sold (paper) £15,000
.Share capital .. .. .. 11,740
Assets written up 10,095
36,835
Funds provided by the business £29,726
This is a very poor accumulation for an insurance
co. which has been in existence for 16 years. Still
it may be quite sufficient to meet the liabilities
which have accumulated under the policies. On that
point, of course, it would be necessary to have the
report of an actuary’s investigation before expressing
any opinion. Without that a life insurance co.’s
balance-sheet doesn’t take us very far. The last in-
vestigation was made by T. W. Bremner at the end
of 1907 ; and, though no doubt a report was issued,
all that the directors’ ! report said about it in the
following year was: “The quinquennial valuation of
the co.’s liabilities was completed by Mr. T. W.
Bremner, F.F.A., A.1.A., during the year.” '
The present accounts are not satisfactory, because
they do not disclose anything with regard to the
written-up properties or the nature of the £15,000
represented by shares which the co. got on the sale
of its accident business. There is a line among the
assets: “Investment in public co., £16,250.” From
this it appears that the co. has put £1250 of cash
into the subsidiary co. Now, so far as £15,000
of the total is concerned, it is represented by shares
which are bringing in nothing, which cannot be sold
for another eight years, and which are limited as to
dividend for the same period to p.c. The shares,
offered in the market, would probably not fetch
£5OOO. To-morrow the co. could, if it chose, form
another co. with a capital of £50,000 to acquire the
rights to grow cucumbers on the office window-sills,
and it could then enter up: “Investment in public
co. (No. 2), £49,994,” and add the amount to the
alleged funds. This is no way to handle a serious
business like life insurance.
Yet the position may be quite sound. It certainly
ought to be a lot sounder than if this were a mutual
office, because at any rate hgre is £11,740 of share
capital to come on, and a mutual office wouldn’t have
that. Also, it is quite probable that the property
asset was a lucky purchase. Nevertheless, the ex-
penses are so high that it is simply impossible for
the policy-holders to get good results at present,
whatever they may do bv-and-bye. Lumping together
Industrial and Ordinary figures, because they can’t
be separated, this shows the proportion of total out-
goings (apart from claims) :
Outgoings (Apart from Claims) Compared with
Income.
1903.. £BO 10 6 per cent. 1907.. £57 6 2 per cent.
1904.. 7610 1 „ 1908.. 571110
1905.. 66 18 11 „ 1909.. 60 8 9 „
1906.. 62 6 4 „ 1910.. 601710
That, as mentioned above, includes Ordinary business,
which certainly shouldn’t cost more than 25 p.c. ; so
the expense rate in the Industrial division must be
appalling. And nothing is more certain than this—-
that if the premiums go in expenses, they can’t be
available to pay claims. Not that the co. does not
pay every cent that it undertakes to pay. No doubt
it does all that. But, in view of the high expense
rate, what a ridiculously small amount that must be
compared with what the same amount of premium
ought to purchase!
The Metropolitan Accident, Fire, and
General Insurance Co. (Sydney), which took over
the accident business of the Australian Metropolitan
Life Assurance Co., and gave for it the absurdly
high price of £15,000 in £1 fully-paid shares:—
Towards De-
Loss. Dividends. Reserve's, licit.
Dec., 1909.. £773 Nil £15,773
Dec., 1910.. 1322 Nil 17,095
In the foregoing the co. is given credit for the re-
serve to cover unexpired risks ; this fund is in credit
at present £ll9l. It is a very doubtful
reserve; and without it the present deficit
is £18,286. The co. started on a bad
basis. At the end of 1909 it had a capital of
£17,728, of which £15,000 was “paper.” That is
to say, only 10,913 shares had been issued for cash;
on this lot ss. per share had been paid, leaving a
liability of 15s. That left 222,787 shares available;
and a prospectus was issued offering these to the
public. The 1.0. A., however, got in first; and the
appeal of the Metropolitan was successful to only a
very small extent. Of the 222,787 shares available,
only 9411 had been taken up as at December 31,
and of this number 1154 were not formally allotted
until January 6 of this year. These shares, like the
others, are paid to only 55., so the present capital,
apart from the “paper,” is £5047. Undoubtedly
the £15,000 paid for the goodwill blocked, and still
blocks, any rush for the shares. The business trans-
ferred was infinitesimal; all that this co. under re-
view really got in return for the free shares it issued
was the use of the parent co.’s organisation, mainly
industrial. It would have been far better had the
co., on making an appeal for the extra capital, taken
the bull by the horns and reduced the amount of
loading to £5OOO at the very outside. All that
was done, however, was to arrange with the holders
of the 15,000 shares to bar the sale of the shares
and limit the div. payable on them to 3J p.c. p.a.,
non-preferential and non-cumulative, for 10 years
from January 1, 1909. It was not a sufficient
concession. The co. has passed through two years
without a hope of a div., so the parent co. has not
given away a thing so far as those two years are
concerned; and it isn’t likely that a div. will be
payable for another two or three years at least.
Certainly the profit and loss deficit should be wiped
out first. Further, in view of the difficulty in plac-
ing the shares, the concession with regard to the sale
of the vendors’ shares doesn’t seem worth much
either. _ The vendor co. was far too greedy; and its
greed is a heavy handicap on the infant co. It is
not too late even now to save the situation by scis-
soring £lO,OOO off the “paper.” If that were done,
the 5000 shares might be worth something consider-
able. If it isn’t done, it is quite likely that the
15,000 will be worth nothing.
The extent and progress* of the business are further
shown hereunder:—
Pre- Ratio of Ratio of
miums. Claims. Expenses. Claims. Expenses.
1909 .. £7038 £2804 £5007 39'9 p.c. 71 “2 p.c.
1910 .. 8279 4004 5933 48'3 „ 71'6 ~
The expenses in proportion to income are tremend-
ously heavy, though it has to be noted that the
pretty heavy expense of trying to get in more capital
has been apparently charged up to profit and loss. On
the other hand, the expense rate, for the first year
especially, is under normal, because many—probably
most—-of. the risks did not run the full 12 months,
whereas credit is taken for the full 12 months’ pre-
mium. Good management and fair luck may pull
the co. through ; if it dies, the only possible verdict
of the Coroner’s Court will be that its parents tied
a stone round its neck and dragged it under.
* * * *
The Royal Bank of Queensland (Brisbane):
Writ-
Dividends and ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves.
June,’o4.. £9,182 3£ p.c. = £8,422 £7(iO £03,(540
Dec., ’04.. 9,569 3£ ~ „ 8,427 1142 64,782
June,’os.. 9,673 3£ ~ ~ 8,463 1210 65,992
Dee., ’05.. 9,896 3| „ „ 8,468 1428 67,420
June,’o6.. 10,016 3| ~ „ 8,468 1548 68,968
Dec., ’06.. 10,933 4 „ ~ 9,711 £l5OO 68,690
June,’o7.. 11,246 4 ~ „ 9,790 1456 70,146
Dec., ’07.. 12,626 4i ~ „ 11,162 1000 464 70,610
Mar., ’OB.. 6.305 4% ~ „ 5,709 596 71,206
Sept.,’oB.. 12,768 41 ~ ~ 11,597 1171 72,377
Mar., ’09.. 12,707 4£ ~ „ 11,719 988 73,365
Sept,,’o9.. 12,826 4J ~ „ 11,864 962 74,327
Mar., ’lO.. 13,211 4.1 ~ ~ 12,100 1111 75,438
Sept.,’lo.. 13,338 4£ ~ ~ 12,228 1110 76,548
Mar., ’ll.. 15,137 5 ~ „ 13,746 IQOO 391 76,939
This bank, like some others, didn’t lop off enough
capital when it did a bit of pruning after the great
trouble. It lost a great deal more than it con-
fessed at the time; so those losses have had to be
made good out of subsequent profits. It was a mis-
take; and it was all the harder to repair because
Queensland didn’t recover nearly as rapidly as had
been expected. The new management, therefore, had
a long stern-chase. For years the bank only paid 24
p.c. ; and that was a handicap in itself. When a
bank can only do that much it is a pretty good in-
dication that the figures are not what they pretend
to be in the balance-sheet—that the capital isn’t
there, and hence that the alleged assets are not
there either. And that means two things—one that
the bank probably can’t get as much deposits as it
could do with, and the other that, owing to the sus-
picion with which it is viewed, it must keep more
money in the till than a bank which isn’t viewed
with suspicion. Some managers have said—“ Well,
here goes, and I’ll chance it,” and have put up the
dividend, practically with the intention of bluffing
the public into believing that the position was better
than it really was. Sometimes that policy has come
off: bluff would be an abandoned art if it didn’t
come off sometimes. Edward Denny Day, of the
Royal of Queensland, isn’t that sort of manager.
He just put up with the handicap and plugged
ahead; and this paper for one congratulates him
upon being at last in a position to pay 5 p.c. ; and
it believes that he wouldn’t pay 5 p.c. if he wasn’t
absolutely certain that he could afford it. And, as
5 p.c. is a very fair return, it may also nrobably
be taken for granted that, in E. D. Day’s opinion,
the capital of the bank is now just about intact, the
previously-undisclosed losses having been made good
either out of ordinary business profits or out of re-
coveries in value.
For the first time for many years the declared
profits exceed 5 p.c. on the capital and reserves com-
bined. Recent results: —
June, 1907 .. £4 5 5 p.c. Sept., 1909 .. £4 8 3 p.c.
Dec., 1907 .. 412 7 „ Mar., 1910.. 4 911
Sept., 1908 .. 411 9 „ Sept., 1910 .. 4 9 9 ”
Mar., 1909 ..4 9 6,, Mar., 1911 ..510,’
The capital is now £523,217, as against £513,632
12 months ago. The increase is mainly due to the
issue of a few more pref. shares; the "pref. capital
now totals £54,080. Other balance-sheet figures:—
Mar., TO. Mar.,’ll.
Bills and notes .. £43,154 £11,003 Dec.£32,151
Deposits, etc... .... 1,324,117'1,442,592 Inc. 118,475
Liquid assets .. .. 639,671 587,862 Dec. 51,809
Advances .. .. 1,265,720 1,406,151 Inc. 140.431
Premises, etc... .. 63,049 74,484 Inc. 11,435
The total liabilities are thus £1,453,595; and, as
mentioned just now, the capital is £523,217, so that
the bapk still has the use of less than £3 of the
public’s money for every £1 of the share capital,
apart from reserves. This means, in the ordinary
way, comparatively small profits; but it also means
small risks. Further, the liquid assets in proportion
to total liabilities are still very large—just over 40
p.c. This also tends towards comparatively small
profits, and it also implies small risks. Generally,
then, the position looks very secure; in every respect
security appears to be the first consideration.
* * * *
National Mortgage and Agency Co. of
Maoriland :
To Re- Re-
S u pt., Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1903.. £24,306 Sf p.c. = £16,999 £17,307 £61,789
1904 .. 32,610 8i ~ ~ 16,999 15,611 77,400
1905 .. 40,240 10 ~ ~ 20,000 20,240 97,640
1906.. 34,880 10 ~ ~ 20,000 14,880 112,520
1907 .. 35,226 10 „ „ 20,000 15,226 127,746
1908 .. 35,456 10 „ ~ 20,000 15,456 143,21)2
1909 .. 38,141 11J „ „ 22,500 15,641 158,843
1910.. 38,505 ll| „ ~ 22,500 16,005 174,848
This is a fairly ancient institution, consisting largely
of lords and Viscounts and such folks with well-lined
purses. The capital is £1,000,000, but only
£200,000 has been called up; so the lords, vis-
counts, etc., are liable for £BOO,OOO. It is, no
doubt, this large calling power on fat purses which
makes it easy for the co. to borrow cheaply. Its
liabilities at the last balance totalled £805,738, of
which two-thirds was on debentures. The latter have
a currency mostly of five years, and that gives the
co. time to turn round in case a slump should strike
Maoriland, where most of the co.’s loan and mort-
gage business is done. As R. Bedford wrote the other
day, the most striking characteristic of Australia (and
with Maoriland it’s the same) is resilience. Things
bounce up again. The trouble with the financial co.
which works on current accounts or short-dated loans
is that the lenders want their money back before
things have had time to bounce up again ; and that
means big losses on account of forced sales. Cer-
tainly, if you take money for five years certain you
are liable to have it lying idle on your hands some
of the time; but that hasn’t been the case for the
past few years. Maoriland has been borrowing hard,
and London has been a greedy taker of short loans.
These things have no doubt helped to fatten the co.’s
profits lately. Its risks certainly are pretty sub-
stantial. Besides its own money it has to protect
the before-mentioned £805,738 of other people’s
money ; and £810,202 of, the total is in various ad-
vances—loans on wool, etc., on mortgage, or on
customers’ current account. In addition, there is
£193,134 in “investments in sundry securities and
shares in colonial companies.” The last is a vague
item. Cash runs to £77,067, and premises, plant,
and merchandise to another £115,183.
It was remarked just now that the most striking
Australasian characteristic is resilience. But if a
mortgage co. relies upon prices always recovering
their oid level after a fall, it may hit an unpleasant
snag. Prices, for instance, may be—and in Maori-
land have been —gradually inflated by a furious
public borrowing policy. When that borrowing stops,
and instead of easy money flowing in, hard-earned
money has to be sent out to pay either interest or
principal, prices must inevitably shrivel. It is 20
years since the Victorian boom, for instance, and the
old prices haven’t yet been reached, and probably
never will be reached again. The mortgage co.
which sees this, and, during a public borrowing
boom, insists on wide margins accordingly, is the
one that will get the least into the soup.
North Coast Steam Navigation Co. (N.S. W.):
Unex-
plained
Addi- Written
Business tions to Off Re- Re- ■
Profits. Reserves. Dividends, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
Dec., 1903.. 2665 500 6 p.c. = 393 S 40,820
June, 1904.. 3992 775 6 ~ ~3938 41,649
Dec., 1904.. 5596 3987 8 ~ ~5250 45,982
June, 1905.. 5860 4542 8 „ ~5250 51,134
Dec., 1905.. 6230 852 8 ~ ~6602 52,614
June, 1906.. 7245 1000 8 ~ ~6750 54,109
Dec., 1906.. 8021 1500 8 ~ ~7000 56,680
June, 1907.. 8791 1573 8 „ ~ 5266 55,728
Dec., 1907.. 8783 8 „ ~8750 2274 56,487
June, 1908.. 6239 3526 8 ~ ~8750 57,502
Dec., 1908.. 8959 1756 8 ~ ~8750 59,467
June, 1909.. 9296 8 „ ~8750 162 59,851
Dec., 1909.. 9038 2020 8 ~ ~8750 62,159
June, 1910.. .8887 8 ~ ~8750 136 62,160
Dec., 1910.. 9016 4149 8 ~ ~8750 - 66,575
The bulk of the reserves is in a heap labelled “In-
surance and Repairs Suspense Account” ; and on top
of this heap £4149 has dropped like the gentle dew
from Heaven during the past six months. Whether it
is a real reserve fund, or only a set-off against cur-
rent depreciation, the man who post-mortems the ac-
counts doesn’t know, and it isn’t intended that he
should know. It seems pretty certain, however,
that this is more than a depreciation fund, because
something else of unspecified size is written off
against depreciation, and deducted from the book-
value. Very big changes have taken place in the
past 10 years. This shows the chief of them: —
1900. 1910.
Capital £131,250 £218,750
Creditors 48,662 23,619
Ships and wharves .. .. 157,170 267,719
Cash and hook debts .. 43,529 31,672
Sundries of all sorts .. .. 12,230 18,303
So the co. has £294,075 net of assets now as against
£164,267 10 years ago; but of that increase of
£129,808, new capital stands for £87,500. It is
impossible, however, to say whether ship property,
etc., is valued on the same basis now as it was in
past years. Sweeping the eye down the co.’s history
it will be seen that, for years previous to 1898, 6
p.c. was paid ; then it got to 8 p.c. ; then in the bad
year 1903, there was a temporary return to 6 p.c. ;
and ever since the new capital was got in 8 p.c. ap-
pears to have been very comfortably earned. Further,
the extremely fruitful North Coast is making rapid
progress; and, though the railways will cut in for
some of the traffic, it seems certain that, unless the
northern bar harbors go to wreck altogether, the
North Coast Co. will continue to do a large carrying
trade—especially of export produce.
Paul and Gray, Ltd. (Sydney), Dairying on
business as ship chandlers, etc., at Sydney, Mel-
bourne, Brisbane, and elsewhere :
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
Oct., ’O6 £2151
„ ’07£14,389 17£ p.c. =£12,020 £2369 4520
Premiums on new shares 1000 5520
~ ’OB 9,142 10 p.e.= £7,468 1674 7194
Dec., ’O9 6,440 8| „ ~ 7,468 £342 5824
„ TO 8,387 10 ~ ~ 7,468 124 795 6619
That might be put a little differently. There is a
small marine insurance fund not included in the re-
serves mentioned in the table; and the £124 shown
as written off for last year has been appropriated to
that fund. It might, therefore, be just as correct to
say that, on the accounts, the net profits for the year
were £8387, and that the total visible reserves are
£7719. The co. is 10 years old, but it is only during
the last four years that the shares have been on the
market; probably the intention was to give the
partners, or chief partners, a better chance to turn
some of their holding into money. Anyway, Mr.
John Paul, who was chairman in 1907, when the
shares were first talked about on ’Change, left the
Board during the following year, along with J. E.
Paul and Dr. F. P. Paul, “consequent upon their
ceasing to hold the necessary qualification”; and
E. D. Gray, who then became chairman, has been
followed by W. Lambert. The management of the
practically-reconstituted co. evidently sees large
things ahead, and it has been pushing out. First, it
bought a business in Melbourne, though that caused
trouble for a while, and southern trade competitors
began to hit back; a London branch was opened;
and “negotiations have been entered into for the
purchase of the freehold of the Sussex-street (Syd-
ney) property at a satisfactory figure.” All this
has, of course, meant money, and most of it has
come from the bank. The principal items have
moved this way:—
Liabilities.
1907. 1909. 1910.
Share capital .. .. £68,682 £74,682 £74,682.
Sundry creditors .. .. 29,202 35,022 47,535
Assets.
Premises £17,740 £17,850 £17,775
Stock-in-trade .. .. 63,329 76,478 84,675
Book debts 27,082 20,369 25,513
Sundries 2,836 4,906 3,868
The great bulk of the co.’s resources is thus in two
items —merchandise and book debts, and whether
they are worth more or less than they are repre-
sented to be, or just as much, there is no way of
telling. If the stock has been over-valued, the profits
have been overstated; for the one depends entirely
upon the other. It is much the same in all industrial
ventures; one wants to know the management as
well as the figures. No doubt the quality of the
management is sufficiently told by the figures if the
same management has been at the helm over a long
run of years. But in a case of this sort, where the
management is practically new, an over-sanguine
view as to the value of the stock or the book debts
wouldn’t be disclosed by the accounts yet a while.
On the other hand, certainly, the management may
be pessimistic—in which case it is possible that the
published figures are under the mark. That is the
risk the investor takes. In any case, however, he
will get comfort from the fact that there is no good-
will item whatever, so that the whole of capital, re-
serves and liabilities is represented by something that
you can take in your hand and look at.
Permewan, Wright and Co., Ltd., carriers,
etc., of Melbourne and elsewhere:—
Net Written To Re- Re-
Jan., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1901.. £4552 8 p.C. = £4479 £7500 £13,714
190-2.. 5150 8 „ ~ 5000 7500 0,304
1903.. 6630 8 ~ ~ 5000 7,994
Loss. Deficit..
1904.. 594 3 „ ~ 1875 9062 4,137
1905.. 4225 Nil 136 8,498
1906 .. 1566 Nil 1022 11,086
1 rofit.
1907.. 5364 Nil 308 £5056 6,030
I' Plant apparently written
down 6371 12,401
Reserves.
1 £12,500 capital written off .. .. 99
I Profit.
V 67-31 6 p.c. = £3OOO 3731 3,830
1909.. 1797 5 ~ „ 2500 3,127
1910.. 3532 5-,, ~ 2500 1032 4,159
1911 .. 5562 6 „ „ 3000 2562 0,721
It is hardly correct, perhaps, to say that nothing was
written off for last year, or for the previous year or
two. As a matter of fact, depreciation as follows
has been charged to Profit and Loss : —•
1908 .. Nil I 1910 .. £2728
1909 .. £1641 I 1911 .. 3202
And that is apart from various amounts spent and
debited to repairs. These allowances for deprecia-
tion are not shown in the table as amounts written
off, because they were charged to Profit and Loss,
whereas the amounts previously shown as written off
were special appropriations out of profits—or alleged
profits. Perhaps the best way to show what has
happened in 10 years is like this: —
190 L 1910. 1911.
Liabilities .. £28,014 £30,781 £42,915
Assets—
Plant .. .. 47,358 38,870 >39,985
Buck debts .. 48,981 34,990 45,253
Merchandise .. 9,270 10,537 ,13,441
Miscellaneous .. 2,107 3,04 4 3,957
Between 1901 and 1911 the capital was reduced by
£12,500, that sum, besides large amoupts of re-
serves, being written off on a re-valuation of assets.
These assets consist very largely of a river plant—
six steamers and nine barges. The co. does a con-
siderable Murray and Murrumbidgee trade, with
something on the Darling; and, in the nature of
things, that trade is as uncertain as the rivers.
Moreover, it may now be taken to be the settled
policy of the country that the claims of irrigation
on the uncertain waters of the, rivers come first.
There will be other things for P., W. and Co. to do,
no doubt; but the river business doesn’t seem to
have much of a future, and the river assets will pro-
bably continuously shrink in value, and will have
to be written off out of either profits or capital.
Besides its carrying business, the co. handles pro-
duce and some merchandise —almost every river boat
is a hawking boat—and no doubt it is this part of
the business that is mainly responsible for the large
amount of book debts, amounting almost to tl»e
total of the capital ( £50,000),
The Commonwealth Insurance Co., formed
about six years ago in Melbourne, and the Insurance
Office of Australia, formed last year in Sydney, will
probably soon be running in double harness. Nego-
tiations are in progress for the absorption of the
Commonwealth Co.
Naturally the Ore Concentration (1905)
Co., which owns the Elmore zinc-flotation patents,
doesn’t like the idea of the Zinc Corporation throwing
out the Elmore pans for the Minerals Separation pro-
cess. The co. has issued a circular to shareholders on
this and other matters. “The Zinc Corporation, which,
in January, 1908, had tried and abandoned several
other processes, and was on the verge of failure, has
since made a working profit of fully £250,000 by
adopting the Elmore process.” But now the Zinc-
Corporation had announced the change mentioned
above, “although it was on the failure of the
former [the Minerals Separation Co.’s process] that
the Elmore process had been so successfully adopted.”
The circular proceeds:—“The reason given for this
is that a change in the character of some of the
tailings to be treated in future has made the Min-
erals Separation process more desirable. In the
opinion of your Board it would, at very small
cost, have been perfectly simple to so adjust the
existing successful working (should any modification
have been found actually necessary) to meet the ex-
pected change in a portion of the material to be
treated. No proper opportunity has been afforded
to demonstrate this.. In the circular above re-
ferred to, it is stated that an incidental advantage
to Zinc Corporation shareholders in the change re-
ferred to will be the avoiding of a lawsuit threat-
ened by the Minerals Separation Co. This lawsuit
is not one of infringement against the Elmore pro-
cess, but your Directors understand, arises from an
undertaking given by the Zinc Corporation, when first
starting to experiment with the Minerals Separation
Co.’s process, that no other flotation process would
ever be used. This most unusual condition has
been the basis of a legal claim, which is now ap-
parently ended by the agreement on the part of the
Zinc Corporation to return to the Minerals Separa-
tion Co.’s process. Under these circumstances your
Board has issued a writ in Australia against the
Zinc Corporation for infringement of tne Elmore
Patents, and has of course claimed royalties from
them for past and future working.” if this yarn
about an agreement never to use any but the
Minerals Separation process is true, it doesn’t say
much for the management of the Zinc Corporation
in those days, whatever the then virtues of the pro-
cess may have been.
The chairman of the Broken Hill Junc-
tion talks rubbish in the half-yearly report. “The
unsatisfactory results attached to milling operations
are primarily due to the depleted state of the labor
market at the time, and the further necessity for
economy by the introduction of a number of labor-
saving appliances.” The mill is poor and the ore
is poor, and wretched results were got when there
was no scarcity of men. And, anyhow, how can
skilled workmen be expected to be available for
works which are shut down three-fourths of their
time? It is further stated that 100,000 tons (esti-
mated) of high-grade ore have been uncovered above
the 400 ft. level, mostly in the crushed section. Be-
fore any importance is attached to those 100,000
tons, a reliable estimate should be made of the cost
of extracting the stuff. Mining ore from crushed
sections is a good deal like working in quicksand.
The position of the co. on January 31 was that it
owed £5705, and had about £BOO of cash and
£l7OO of more or less liquid assets. There was,
however, 2s. 6d. callable on the 200,000 shares.
Great Cobar (N.S.W.) increased its out-
put to 6248 tons copper last year, as compared with
4855 tons for 1909. Some metallurgical difficulties
were overcome, so that the co. treated more of its
own ore, besides making considerable purchases from
outside mines. Still there is no reason for rejoicing
over a smelting campaign that merely conquers tech-
nical difficulties, and is unable to show adequate
profits. There certainly is a promise now that costs
are to be reduced; and if a dividend comes in conse-
quence it will be very welcome after a wait of four
years. First, however, there is a lot to be done in
the way of straightening out the tangled finances.
The best news offering is that reserves have jumped
ahead of all previous estimates, partly because of
discoveries below 1100 ft.; but the ore doesn’t part
with its copper so easily as it used to.
* * * *
Scantlebury struck Australia with his
Amalgamated Hill End just when it was feeling sore
and sorry over the Bullfinch fiasco. However, he put
off enough shares to allow him to go to allotment,
though the terms have to be altered. Under the


PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (Limited),
2, 4 and 6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
Specially qualified to act as
Trustees, Executors,
Administrators,
Attorneys under
Power, Agents, etc.
Absolute Security combined with Effi=
cient and Economical Management.
Trust Funds to Lend
at from 4 per cent.
A. J. MACKENZIE,)
write or Call lor Booklet. Manager.
GREENING’S
SCREENING.
Agate Steel, Phosphor,
Bronze, Brass.
Write for particulars to
FRASER & CHALMERS LTD.,
Equitable Building, Melbourne;
Macdonald Street, Kalgoorlie;
New Zealand: D. M. DAVIS, Agent, Hall of
Commerce, High Street, Auckland. [2
Every engineer in charge of factories and mills
should give close attention to the power wasted in
transmission of power. The Hyatt Flexible Holler
Bearings save 20 per cent, power and 75 per cent,
of oil, so one of the first; duties is naturally for
engineers to direct their special. attention to these
bearings and to car boxes for trucks. Hyatts arc
in continuous use in Cement Works, Ore Dressing
Mills, Factories, etc., in Australia. Bushings of
flexible rollers may be applied to loose pulleys or
truck wheels, etc. Should engineers require further
details, they can apply to the Australian Agents,
W. & J. Lempriere, Melbourne; or E. W. Hurst-
house and Co., of Wellington, the agents in New
Zealand.*
* * * *
“FERRODOR” Paint.—Specially manufactured for
preserving galvanised iron and steel. Unaffected by
sea air, sulphur fumes, cyanogen gases. Used on
Princes and Victoria Bridges, P. and O. and N.D.E.
steamers, etc. Covers 1000 sq. yds. per cwt. WM.
ADAMS & CO., LTD., 175 Clarence Street, Sydney.*
Steam Users are invited to send for illustrated
catalogue of Engineering Specialities manufactured
by Bell’s United Asbestos Co., Ltd. Every descrip-
tion of asbestos goods, patent “Belfry” steam valves
and asbestos packed cocks and water gauges are
stocked at the depots of Bell’s Asbestos Austra-
lian Agency, Ltd., 315 Kent Street, Sydney, and
Beach Street, Fremantle; also at Victorian Agency,
W. H. Lamond & Co., 328 Flinders Street, Mel-
bourne.*
The Bigelow Patent Rock Breaker commends
itself to mine managers who welcome an effective
machine which is cheaper to maintain and repair
than Gyratory and other crushers. This machine is
of the well-known Blake type, but lias some ad-
ditional improvements which have justified in prac-
tice all the claims advanced by the patentee. The
work of crushing is done on the down-stroke of the
pitman instead of the up-stroke; there is no strain
on the pitman cap; two large side rods resist the
thrust of the toggles, and enable the jaws to be
regulated within a large range; the back toggle is
so made as to resist all legitimate strains of crush-
ing, but will shear under exceptional conditions and
save the machine. The shaft and eccentric bearings
are self-lubricating; the jaws are convex and con-
cave, and with the cheek plates are made of steel
and are reversible. The Austral Otis Engineering
Company, of South Melbourne, have installed a great
number "of these machines, and hold the sole manu-
facturing rights for the Commonwealth.* IS
FOR SALE Cheap, Second-Hand, 15 Break II.P.
Tangye Gas Engine, in good order. Apply Manager,
Bulletin Office, 214 George Street, Sydney.*
* * * *
Dick’s Patent Balata Belting, invented and made
by R. and J. Dick, Glasgow, is the only genuine, re-
liable Balata Belting. To ensure getting real article
branded with makers’* name, obtain from Sole Im-
porters, James Hardie & Co., West Circular Quay,
Sydney, who carry large stocks, guaranteeing-
quality. * * 2
Extract from The Insurance Observer, London
(4/11/1910). —“Combined Assurance: When the rates
quoted by the Colonial Mutual Life for endowment
assurance policies are examined and compared with
those generally charged for contracts of a similar
description, one’s belief in the future of this enter-
prising departure becomes stronger. A ‘combined’
policy' carrying the right to participate in profits,
can be had for about the same amount as has usually
to be paid for a contract which does not include
accident and sickness benefits.”*
* * ‘ * *
WOOD PIPE has more points to recommend it
than any other class of conduit. It suffers from
neither rust, erosion, or electrolysis. Send for cata-
logue to Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Balmain,
Sydney.*
Mine Managers and Engineers. —Send vour orders
for miners’ drill steel, octagon, hexagon and cruci-
form, solid or hollow; manganese and chrome steel
castings and forgings; all tool steels and engineers’
tools, pneumatic tools, machine tools, saw blades
and frames, etc., to Bohler Bros. & Co., Ltd., 1
Angel Place, Sydney, and at Melbourne.*
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
If so, write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address, 163 King
Street, Sydney, and 9 Queen Street, Melbourne.* U
An economical proposition in belt conveying of
great interest to mining and mill managers, en-
gineers, etc. “Condor” Brand Registered Black Sur-
face Hardened Conveyor Belting—specially adapted
for the Australian climate —-for conveying- ore, sand,'
metal, wheat, coal, etc. Less than half cost of
rubber belting, giving excellent results, Kalgoorlie,
Broken Hill, and Wallaroo. Write for price lists
and particulars to Sole Manufacturers, Hopkins Bros.
& Odium Prop., Ltd., Leicester Street, Carlton, Mel-
bourne.*
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co. Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modern scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne.*
Nobel’s Explosives are the best and most re-
liable. We are agents for the original makers,
Hamburg. Large stocks on hand. Contracts at low
rates. WM. ADAMS & CO., LTD., 175 Clarence
Street, Sydney.*
* * * *
Mine managers when requiring air compressors,
either belt, steam, or electrically driven, should not
fail to inspect the Reavell Air Compressor, when they
will be impressed by its simplicity, compactness and
portability. Owing to the working parts being en-
tirely enclosed it can be placed to work on any part
of the mine, either on the surface or underground.
The number of repeat orders which Messrs. Reavell
have received from the mining community proves
how greatly their compressor is appreciated. The
representatives for Australia are Messrs. Babcock
and Wilcox, Ha.vmarket, Sydney.* [2
* * * *
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign Patents obtained.
Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Melbourne, and
Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write us for In-
ventors’ Guide.*
* * * *
Assayers, Mine ‘ Managers, and Prospectors
write to H. B. Silberberg and Co., 443 Bourke
Street, Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining-
requisites and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc
pulverisers to 200 mesh; hand sample grinders to
120 mesh; Ainsworth’s assay balances sensitive to
1/13000 grain; prospector’s balances to 1/1000
grain ; weight; pocket transits ; gasoline combination
furnaces ; Morgan’s crucibles ; chemicals ; etc.*
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
emended constitution —which is much more favorable
to the public subscribers —the co. will have a work-
ing capital of £45,000. The vendors’ cut has been
induced bv half, and now amounts to only £5OOO
in cash and 50,000 shares. The total number of
shares will be 300,000 instead of 500,000, so the
man who applied for 300 shares gets under the new
scheme the same interest in the property as he would
have got by paying- for 500 shares under the old
scheme.
* * * *
Bookham, l'ass (N.S.W.), continues to
drive the shallow 75ft. level north and south; but
prospects are poor. The mineralised quartz carries a
little free gold, the best stone being on the hanging-
wall side. Picked stuff from a very limited area
lias given rich returns; but the average of the reef
is low. It is, nevertheless, a well-defined fissure
reef, in porphyry, and may be worth deeper pros-
pecting.
* * * *
Central Red, White and Blue, Bendigo, is
still receiving the puff pathetique. The co. hit the
last leg of the saddle in the 400 ft. crosscut the other
day, and shares promptly put up a new record.
Their descent to more modest latitudes didn’t arise
from any nervousness over the jumping case, as was
so aptly told, but was due to the quality of the
stone and in part to some faulting. What the
average housemaid, who is backing the market, won’t
digest is that the Central Blue formation is a
saddle. What the average newspaper puffer doesn’t
101 l is that the saddle isn’t a big one, that distinct
shoots of gold exist in it, and that any impoverish-
ment of these shoots means that the market will
fall like a house of cards. The idea is that because
the Little 180 has good gold the shoot will extend
from it uninterruptedly to the Central Blue. Good
luck to it if it does; but while no one can say this
is not going to happen, history of the line doesn’t
point to the fulfilment of expectations of the kind.
* * * #
Jumbunua Coal (Vic.) tells a sorry tale
as the result of. Peter Mcßride’s Powlett State coal
mine. Six months back Jumbunna’s half-year’s out-
put was up to 35,500 tons; now it is down to
20,050 tons, the mine having to be put on one shift.
What knocked the stuffing out of the Board was the
reduction in the price of Powlett slack. On this
point the Board avers that Stanley Hunter is selling
under the cost of production. If this be the case,
there must be a fat profit on the Powlett big coal,
or someone is telling yarns fit only for the smoking-
room, for the statement is made on first-rate au-
thority that the State mine is now, in the aggregate,
> ielding good profits. Of course Jumbunna has felt
the pinch over its lost railway contracts. That loss
Has inevitable, directly the Government decided to
make the railway service complete by furnishing
it with a coal mine, thus putting the Commissioners
independent of any ring or vend. Between one
thing and another, the co. lost £1768 for the past
half-year. The result must astonish Boyd and Mur-
ray, the co.’s chief spokesmen, who used to walk
about as if they didn’t care a D for Government op-
position. Now they have got it, the same old stiff
back isn’t showing. Nevertheless, the Board still
has hopes, to judge by the outlay on plant, and the
dead-work done during the past half-year.
*. * * #
What is happening to Duke and Main
beads Consols, Maryborough (Vic.), is what befalls
.■very deep lead show nowadays. Since the mine got
mi the pay list, the co. has announced divs. as regu-
larly as the cocks crow. Now the gutter is widen-
ing, and cutting-up drives are not indicating the
old good-value wash. The zenith was attained
when the Cathcart scramble was on. Wise men
then sold, and the speckers have been pressing prices
down ever since. There is plenty of wash in the
mine, but the runs of gold are not so good as here-
mfore. That threatens the sequence of dividends;
and once a break occurs, calls get perilously close,
because of the way Victorian directors habitually
disburse well towards the last penny of profits. The
co. has shut down its No. 2 shaft, and its explora-
tions in the shallow ground aren’t adding to the
weight of the petty cash till. Down the lead the
Burnt Creek is hard up, and the quality of its
wash doesn’t help the Duke Leads directors to re-
build castles in that direction.
Caralulup (Vic.) is the present home of
(he Loddon Deep Leads, promoted years back in Lon-
don by Bottomley, if this writer remembers aright.
Anyway, it has been a Bottomley -sort of sink for
cash. Its first venturing was on some site selected
by geologists and confirmed by directors. But every-
thing became a ghastly failure. Hence the flit to
Caralulup and the sinking of a shaft there. To
demonstrate the absolute ignorance of the Londoner
where deep lead mining is concerned, chairman E.
T. Holloway, when appealing for more cash, said,
“the report of the Government indicates there is
wash of vast thickness, and that a sample of gold or
sediment off the bed rock had been taken.” He
says, too, that with the shaft 330 ft. deep, they will
be able to deal with the wash not only in the imme-
diate locality, but four or five miles away. A state-
ment of this kind, made about a Queensland property
and a Government report, would be sure to attract
ibe attention of the Mines Department; but there
isn’t any bustling official body in Victoria to analyse
I! olloway pills of this type. Holloway may have quoted
iis “brief” correctly; but, for all that, the truth
is that thickness of overlying drifts is not quite the
same thing as thickness of gold-bearing wash. And
as to a “sample” of the “sediment,” all alluvial
men know that the best gold is nearly always got in
ihe lowest 18 inches of the wash. It would be a. fair
Cling for the Victorian Mines Department to take
sieps to post ; Bull on that fact if it wants to save
us deep lead mining from absolute putridity.
There has been a hubbub in Melbourne
>.ver the omission of some qualifying words from the
I rospectus of a tin-mining show up Mitta Mitta way.
The cure for all that lies in fixing more definitely a
personal responsibility for reports that appear in
prospectuses. When one reads that the workings
•iver a length of 700 ft., and that splendid tin oxide
i .is been disclosed in this area wherever opened
■ p, the wonder is that good things have gone beg-
ging so long in north-east Victoria. The investor
lias heard of the Mt. Wills tin smash, just as he
k nows of the land boom crash ; so he isn’t likely to
s’-riously risk his pence in lode tin mining in that
!• icality. What the row may do is to force Peter
Mcßride to see the need for revising the law relating
io mining ccs. and their flotation.
H. E. Rowe, of the Long Tunnel, Wal-
I alia (Vic.), is a pastmaster in the art of dragging
' '-rrings across the track. He says now that what is
" rong at the Tunnel is shortage of labor. A doubt-
ing Stock Exchange rejoins that more gold and
more stone is the present necessity. Bottom levels
-■ far have shown broken material, and there isn’t
the stock of ore above them that befits a claim of the
age and standing of the Tunnel. That isn t the
fault of the management, but is the thing that
happens sooner or later to all deep mining. What
with the Extended practically a derelict, Walhalla.
mining depends on the old veteran. It is to Rowe s
credit, despite all his wordiness and fluster, that he put
£2O 000 to reserve when times were good, otherwise
a profit of £609 for six months, with mining at
3000 ft., would put a damper even on Henry Hart-
rick’s enthusiasm.
Doolette astonished the natives and others
by turning down the Corinthian, in the Bullfinch
country. In the days when the Bullfinch enthusiasts
saw pink, Doolette and his party were thought
to have had this show thrown at them at the ridicu-
lous price of £25,000. The treatment difficulties
have evidently pulled them up. * #
Some of the Bullfinch people are feeling
sorry that they ever heard of London. They sold
50,000 shares at par for working capital, and the
“working capital” has had no use up to date but to
pay the London Board, as the mine gets all it wants
by foolishly railing rich ore to Kalgoorlie. Not a
copper has come from London. The underwriters got
the call on 50,000 shares at par for two years, and
that means that they always have a guaranteed
“bear” of 50,000. On the mine the policy of drag-
ging out rich ore—all right when won from develop-
ment—becomes rotten when won from stoping, but
it has been persisted in by London orders, against
Morgan’s advice. One small stope is mullocked up,
with 2oz. ore standing on both sides of it. Dorrie
Doolette, back again, has been hammering at the
directors to get them to change their policy, and
they have at last agreed to do so.
From Randolph Bedford: Chaffinch case
proved one thing, and that was that the show was not
salted. In the words of Police-Magistrate Roe: “No
man could believe after hearing the evidence that the
ore had been in the trench by any but natural
means.” It is as legitimate to bear shares as to
bull them; but it is illegal to cry “Salt” where
there is no salt for the purpose of wrecking a stock
already beared. The evidence showed that 57 bags
of ore were bagged from the trench before the* schist
ore vein cut out and left only the practically barren
quartz, and that the existence of these 57 bags was
concealed and not reported until the market had been
finished with, when it was reported by letter, though
the insinuations of salting had been reported by
wire. The Government, by the prosecution, no
matter how poorly it was conducted, performer! this
service to the Westralian mining industry—it estab-
lished the fact that the find was genuine.
“R. 8.”: “Oofbird” (B. 30/3/T1) wants
me to reply to certain questions. re the Bull Ant.
Certainly. All the statements made by me as to the
“surrounding schist that carries gold” and the
“2joz. hornblendic rock which caused Grut to turn
the Bull Ant up again with great velocity after pre-
viously turning it down,” were taken from Grut’s
report, which caused the show to be floated. I did
not sample the Bull Ant —had neither right nor
necessity to do it; and as I heard Grut spoken of
as a very frigid and careful pessimist, 1 accepted
his statement, not then knowing that Mr. Grut’s
end of a mine is the assay furnace, and not the
sampling sheet. The only reports I have heard of
on the Bull Ant are Grut’s and Henderson’s, which
everybody accepted at the time, as you must accept
the statements of responsible men until you have a
chance to disprove, them. On the strength of these
reports I applied for a few hundred shares, and later
sold them with great enthusiasm at a loss. “Oof-
bird” is wise after the event; he had better question
the experts on whose sampling and report the show
was floated.
For the first quarter of this year Westralia
produced 332,09 <oz. fine gold. The total
is 23,7630 z. less than for the correspond-
ing term in 1910. The decline in the value of
the ore treated, which has been noticeable since
1903, continues. Last year 2,884,298 tons were
crushed for £6,041,254, equal to 41s. 9d. per ton
of 22401 b. This shows a shrinkage compared with
1909 of 220,706 tons, and a decrease in value of
£654,892, or Is. per ton treated. In order to
minimise as far as possible the ill-effect on profits,
it has been found necessary from time to time to lay
out a lot of capital in new and more efficient cost-
reducing machinery; but with increased working
depth and harder ore, expenditure is a little more
now than it was a year or two ago, and is likely
to go up bit by bit in the future.
Bull Ant shareholders (W.A.) have kicked
over the traces and refused to take up scrip sent out
from London, alleging that the delay in delivery
releases them from their contract. Lawyers’ letters
have also been sent to London, demanding the return
of cash subscribed, on the grounds that some of the
statements on which the delusion was floated were a
gross misrepresentation of facts.
.* * * *
List of Bullfinch cos. which have formally
decided to pass out: Pine Hill South, Cornishman,
Red and Blue Finch, Zebra Finch, Bullfinch Ex-
tended, Bullfinch East, Crossfinch, Goldfinch, Menzies
Yilgarn. In most cases there was very little left to
divide among disappointed shareholders, but in one
or two instances most of the cash put up was
stumped up. A number of others are getting ready
to die quietly within the next month or two.
Ida H. (W.A.) continues to do well. Last
month’s profit amounted to over £l3OO, and the
early resumption of dividends, which stopped in 1908,
is being discussed. The lode at 1000 ft. maintains
a width of 6ft., and a value of an ounce or there-
abouts.
* * * *
Mount Jackson (W.A.) has lately been
having some of its gold-bearing produce exhibited in
the shop windows of Southern Cross; but in view of
past performances and the double uncertainty as to
water supply and permanency of gold deposits, in-
vestors and speculators had better sniff at any flota-
tion which is not backed up by experts who have a
reputation to lose.
The report and balance-sheet of Tindal’s
(W.A.) tells a very different tale from that told share-
holders at the annual meeting. In addressing this
impoverished gathering, Chairman Dawson said that
the average value of the ore treated during the 12
months was 6dwt., and that the profit was £4519,
an amount sufficient to pay four dividends of 6d. per
share if so much money had not been absorbed, etc.
Words, words, words ! The ore handled averaged
sdwt., not 6dwt., and the year’s expenditure
( £23,369) exceeded the receipts by £65. Even this
result was only achieved by an almost entire stop-
page of development; had the mine not been shabbily
treated in this respect, the co. would have made a
much bigger loss. The manager’s estimate for the
current six months is that, after allowing £250 a
month for development (equal to a few feet- a
week), a profit of £2OOO will be realised; but as
all sorts of other expenditure has to come off this pro-
spective “profit,” and as the present attenuated
stopes will be depleted much faster than new ones
(if any) are likely to be got ready, the chances of
shareholders getting anything at all are still far off.
In fact, The Bulletin goes further, and adheres to
its old opinion that, if worked fairly, the mine is
unpayable under present conditions.
Sand Queen, at Comet Yale (W.A.),
shows a working profit for the past year of £4683 ;
and after deducting £lB3l depreciation,. and adding
£lOO9 brought forward from the previous year, a
credit of £3861 remains. So far the reef has been
proved to 200 ft., where it is worth about £3 per
ton. Ore reserves are estimated at 20,000 tons.
The management proposes to deepen the shaft to
300 ft. without delay, and if the reef is found to
maintain its average at this depth the monthly out-
put is to be increased to £4500.
Queensland’s gold-mining divs. for the first
quarter of the year got down to £73,341 ; and that
included Mt. Morgan’s £50,000, which wasn’t all
from gold.
Good rain has fallen at Hampden and Mt.
Klliott, in the Cloncurry district. Nearly sin. fell
at Hampden in less than an hour, and at Mt. Elliott
there was a downpour of 2Jin. The Elliott reser-
voirs are overflowing, and a plentiful supply of water
is assured for months ahead. As is usual when the
rain falls, the railway line from Cloncurry to Mt.
Elliott was washed away, and no trains arrived at
Elliott for two days. (
Chillagoe and the Etheridge are still in
trouble, owing to further washaways on the line that
crawls up the mountains at the back of Cairns.
* * * *
Brilliant Deeps, Charters Towers, is driv-
ing a crosscut from the shaft to open up deeper
levels of the Brilliant reef. The present workings
extend above and below the 2413 ft. level; and al-
though some good crushings have been obtained, the
varying quality of the stone and defective ventilation
have made the show unremunerative. It is hoped
that the crosscut will open up a block of payable
stone .that was proved by a winze from No. 3 level.
Brilliant Extended, to the east of the Deeps, is pros-
pecting at a vertical depth of 2800 ft., with indif-
ferent results. Still, there is payable stone only a
short distance overhead, so the reef may improve
again. Last month’s return was worth £9060, from
4250 tons stone and 4500 tons tailings. This gave a
profit of £1255. At 4s. per share the Extended has
a market value of £50,000 —nearly all of it specu-
lative.
Two latest fortnightly returns from the
New Brilliant Freehold, Charters Towers, make up
1545 tons for £6769. The last lot averaged £4
165., so the stopes are yielding pretty well. Still,
an output of anything like £6OOO a month cant be
kept going unless the deep levels show much better
form. No. 4, which is the deepest, is 748 ft. west
from the crosscut, and the most hopeful sign is that
the face is in diorite, with some plumbago showing
on the hanging wall. No. 1, or the top level, which
coincides with a very good level (No. 7) worked
in Mills’ United, has proved the best, and the hang-
ing wall reef has also supplied large quantities of
payable stone. These two separate but nearly par-
allel reefs, together with a cross reef and somfe blocks
on the Brilliant, constitute the very moderate re-
serves. The Brilliant stone will now help to keep
the mill going, for a connection has been made with
the main hauling shaft. #
Oaks Rush, which owns the deepest work-
ings on North Queensland’s newest field, has now got
its main shaft down 144 ft. Mineralised leaders
occur in an extensive decomposed formation; and the
hanging wall and footwall sections are being pros-
pected by driving along both sides, and by sinking a
winze below the 100 ft. level. The shaft itself is going
down in an auriferous formation, picked samples
from which give fairly good results. Between 300
and 400 tons have been raised in the progress of de-
velopment; but it is uncertain when the battery
will start, because, owing to the phenomenally wet
season, the carriage of supplies- from the coast is
very irregular.
During March Gympie produced 13,556
tons for <4220z. gold. Dividends, £9587; calls,
£2933. The chief producers were: Scottish Gympie,
6800 tons for 17700 z. (div. £4125) ; No. 2 S. Gt.
Eastern, 1700 tons for 16820 z. (div. £3600) ; No. 1
N. Columbia Smithfield, 1196 tons for 6500 z. (div.
£800) ; Columbia Extended, 619 tons for 5580 z.
(div. £1062) ; No. 3 N. Columbia, 614 tons for
5370 z. (profit, about £800) ; No. 1 N. Victory,
200 tons for 4730 z. S. Glanmire and Monkland
should soon cut the Power reef if it lives through
from No. 2 S. Gt. Eastern. This reef has given
several dividends to the latter co. No. 2 S. Gt.
Eastern requires more boiler power to continue sink-
ing to the depth it wants to reach, about 2000 ft.
Oriental Consols, the most S.E. property on field,
has obtained £5OO subsidy from the Government to
crosscut further east. The No. 3 N. Columbia has pur-
chased a local 20-head battery for £450, and shows
much improved prospects. This property is worth
watching; it is the most easterly, and also the deep-
est, mine on the northern end of the field. No. 1 N.
Victory snould soon figure on the dividend list. The
Gt. Northern, at the Two-mile end, is now fairly
under weigh again. It is hoped the management
will make an effort to prove the lower slates, for
such proof will be of value all round. The long
struggle to prove this property is followed with a
good deal of interest.
Mt. Bischoff (Tas.) shares have gone to
over £47, which brings the .total valuation to
£564,000. Just at present the old co. is shelling
out 6s. per month, or £3 12s. a year, or, say, 8 p.c.
p.a. on market price. Last month 19,208 tons were
treated for 90 tons of oxide, so. Bischoff’s monthly
£3600 div. is at the rate of £4O per ton of the oxide
produced. Certainly it is a matter for congratula-
tion that one of our lowest-grade propositions should
give such good results; but it is about time to do
some hard thinking when the market price is pushed
up so high that only 8 p.c. is returned during the
height of a boom in the erratic metal on which the
whole thing depends.
Waihi (M.L.) report to be presented
to the London meeting in May, shows a profit of
£559,000, about £56,000 below the previous year’s.
Dividends absorbed £396,000. The flare-up among
M.L. shareholders, who have been “landed” with
scrip which is worth about a third of what it
was 12 months ago, has had one result at least: they
are nowadays getting progress reports promptly.
The relative present importance of Maori-
land’s quartz-mining fields is shown by the latest
returns' for a month: —Ohinemuri, £154,000;
Thames, £717; Coromandel, £670; Reefton
(South Island), about £12,000. But Thames and
Coromandel both live in the hope of striking big
patches, as they have done before.
According to 11. R. Merton and Co., Lon-
don, the total visible supplies of copper on February
28 were 82,387 tons. This, however, is without
reckoning German stocks, of which no official figures
were available. Mertons reckon that there has been
a decline in Hamburg stocks of 4000 tons, and say
that, if this is so, the -figures may be considered to
indicate a stronger market. The principal feature
of the month was the big falling off in shipments
from America, which totalled only 18,670 tons, as
compared with 29,581 tons in January. Shipments
from other countries, however, were only slightly
less, and the shrinkage in total supplies was largely
balanced by the falling off in deliveries, which
dropped from 42,390 to 31,717 + ons.
» * * *
“Boswell”: “An Annoyed Correspondent ” (B.
23/2/’ll) makes some unfriendly remarks anent
Private Enterprise as embodied in Sydney Ferries
Ltd. It is the same old P. Ilinderprise wherever
you find it. A navigable stream called the Tweed
falls into the Pacific alongside Point Danger, on- the
boundary between Bananaland and N.S.W. The rail-
way from Brisbane runs right to the border town-
ship of Tweed Heads, alongside the estuary. It
daren’t run any further. Eighteen miles up ti*.
river stands the rising town of Murwillumbah, where
the State Frights railway on the Wales side ends.
The link between these two State systems is sup-
plied by P. Hinderprise. The single fare for the 18
or 19 miles is 3s. The return is 6s.! Cheap water
carriage! I don’t think !


it
mss.
Estab
1518.
World
Renowned,
Trade Mark.
STUHR’S
Finest Table Delicacies
Genuine Caviare.
Anchovies in Brine.
Peeled Shrimps.
Shrimps Extract.
Sold by all High-class Provision Dealers.
C. F. STUHR & CO., Hamburg.
L English Export Agent: W. Lovegrove, London,E.C.
jm.
$
CP
I don’t say there’s any harm
in a man taking a glass or
two, so long as he can stop
at that—l take one myself
when I feel I want it—but
what I do say is—a fellow
that doesn’t know where to
draw the line is the sort of
chap as ought never to touch
drink at all. As a matter of
fact, since my old woman
commenced to use Robur I
don’t seem to care much for
anything else. I just take a
cup of tea whenever I want it,
and I never have a headache or
a dry mouth in the morning.
Everybody who uses No. I
Grade Robur seems to like
it—l know I do, and so
does the wife, and no
end of
friends of
ours that
we’ve re-
commended
it to.
Thi Poiicemcm
QUALITY—BUCHANAN WHISKY
“BLACK & WHITE.”
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, April 17, 1911.
My Dear Arini, —
The record Easter Show was opened with
a corkscrew at the official luncheon. Gov-
ernors, toasts, and top-hats prevailed. Later
on, a magnificent beef parade bellowed
round the Ground. Governor-General Dud-
ley and Governor Chelmsford preceded this
with songs of thanksgiving, served up in
official speeches.
Henry VIII., whose head-chopping compe-
tition created such a scare in feminine circles,
has every reason to regret that his own
funeral took - place so soon. He had
an eye for fat beef, so this 1911
Show would have delighted him. This
reflection is a criss-cross digression.
The Flemish strain, noted in some
of the great, broad-breasted draught
horses, recalled one of Henry’s best-remem-
bered compliments to my sex. “She is like
a great Flanders mare!” Anne of Cleves
contrived to keep her head, but her com-
patriots seem to have lost their tails. No-
thing large enough to whisk away a Royal
Agricultural fly was left to this special ex-
hibit of elephantine build. It must be
ticklish work to persuade one of these huge
beasts to have its tail tied up in a ribbon
coiffure, with a bob, the size of a door-knob,
in the middle.
Bathurst has always been horsey and
doggy. Lees, McPhillamys, and Machatties
have held their own over the fences for two
generations. In years gone by, Miss Kate
Lee, daughter of the late John Lee, of Kelso,
was noted for her fine seat in the saddle. I
think Miss Lee married one of the McPhil-
lamys. The Religious Editor, who knows
most things, is unfortunately backing horses
at Ilandwick as I close this letter. He
might have told me whether Miss Kate
McPhillamy, who scooped the special prize
(amateur equestrienne) at the Show, is a
junior limb of the Lee-McPhillamy family
tree.
Doncaster Day at Randwick brought
black velvet into first place. It didn’t
create any wild enthusiasm in the mere spec-
tator. A grey sky, or artificial light, is
needed to give the velvet gown its most al-
luring air. In the sharp, bright light' of
Saturday’s sunshine, the rich black pile
looked hot, and showed every microscopic
speck of dust. This season’s obsession is
the tailored severity of velvet coats and
skirts. Even the prodigal use of wide silk
braid and other rich upholstery can’t alter
the fact that velvet is a law unto itself. It
has to be worn under certain conditions.
The trailing folds of this luxurious nap be-
long to the pose of the lady who is going to
have her two-liundred-guinea portrait painted
by an expensive artist. Gainsborough and
Vandyck doted on the artistic possibilities of
velvet. They are too dead to rise out of
their tombs and tear the short, narrow velvet
1911 skirt, with its duet of large and pro-
gressive feet, into shreds.
The Society bride has bolted from the old
and dull rule that condemned the newly-wed
to go away and hide themselves amongst
scenic attractions. The trousseau formeidy
worn for the edification of waiters in foreign
hotels is now reserved for home use. The
Australian bride who intends to make a so-
cial splash arranges her wedding within
cooee of a big race meeting. She dazzles
her friends and confounds her foes by ap-
pearing in all the glitter of her new dia-
monds, and the silken garb of the up-to-to-
morrow style in eelskin fashions. Mrs.
Anthony Hordern, in mole charmeuse, with
fascinating fixings, and Mrs. Jack Osborne,
one of the newest brides of this month, in a
pale pastel tone of faint daffodil, with one of
this moment’s fancies in a round velvet hat,
were in the front seats of fickle fashion on
Doncaster Day.
The hat as observed at Randwick is a
variegated fad. It’s either very large, with
towering plumes—seven guineas is consid-
ered a modest sum for this season’s head-
gear—or it’s so exactly like a velvet tea-
cosy that the hidden head might be a tea-
pot, for any proof positive to the contrary.
Many of Sydney’s best-dressed women won’t
put their heads into these absurdities, thanks
to a keen sense of form and color. Mrs.
Horsfall, whose artistic feeling for clothes
has never run off the track, carefully avoids
the candle-snuffer caps.
Mrs. Alex Gordon, in smoke-grey ninon,
showed touches of rose charmeuse under the
cloud-effect tunic. Her hat, rather small
and flat on her head, repeated the smoke
and sunset effect of her frock.
Mole color continues its reign in the most
expensive dress circles. It is dull and unbe-
coming. This is a minor matter in the
strenuous clutching at the odd and ugly,
the phase of this year’s tyranny of tears
for the short and fat. The bean-pole figure
is the only form of female architecture that
now ventures to obtrude its waist-line in the
public eye. The plump can only sigh for
wider skirts.
The short and fat man conceal their suf-
ferings from the cold criticism of the super-
latively thin. But the Itontgen-ray glance
of the fashionable costumiere pierces their
offending flesh like a red-hot pin. One of
Sydney’s “very plump” had an agitating
interview with “Madame” re race frocks. “I
can't wear a hobble, of course,” says Mrs.
Avoirdupois. “Well, why not try a bottle
costumepurred Madame. The client
looked down over her simple self. “No,”
she sighed, “that’s no help. I want
it for afternoon wear. If it were for a
fancy-dress ball, I might take it and go as
‘Bottled Stout.’ ”
The Frank Clarkes and a single sprig of
the Madden tribe—Miss Leslie —are rapidly
revolving round this week’s Victorian visi-
tors’ list. The Ernest Raleighs make a
good-looking race-week duet. Mrs. Raleigh
deserves a tributary ink-drop. She has, up
to date, refused to bag her head in a theatre
cap. Seen recently in the Criterion stalls,
her beautifully-dressed fair hair, with a pink
ribbon meandering through its curls, was an
oasis in a desert of coiffure shrieks. Quite
near it was the latest atrocity. An emerald-
green, close-fitting skull cap—like a bathing
cap—entirely covered the head of an other-
wise elegantly-garbed woman. White caps
of equal ferocity, and daring blue blunders
in the same style, raged round stalls and
un-dress circle. The 1911 Society woman,
with some brilliant exceptions, is apparently
getting her sartorial ideas from Hogarth’s
worst caricatures.
Mrs. Steer Bowker may exceed the line
limit of the ostentatiously slim, but she joy-
fully keeps her youthful cream-satin com-
plexion. On Doncaster Day she was the
youngest-looking matron who side-stepped a
gi own-up daughter into the members’ stand.
Wool is richly represented at the Easter
dress parade. From Yabtree, out Tarcutta
way, came Mr. and Mrs. R. Horsley. Coomo
Coomo, in Quirindi sheep circles, contributed
Mr. and Mrs. J. M. Allison. From Beanbali
station (Coonamble) arrived Mr. W. Will-
cox and Miss Willcox. The Forbes branch
of the McPhillamy family was represented
by Mr. and Mrs. O. S. McPhillamy, of War-
roo. Mr. and Mrs. J. L. Brown, from Bow-
enfels, also trotted Sydneywards and un-
packed their Saratogas at Petty’s Hotel.
Mr. and Mrs. Jack Davies (Scone), and
Mr. and Mrs. Kinleside (from other pastoral
parts), have made an Easter pilgrimage to
this city. The John McMasters, who hail
from Binnia Downs, Mr. and Mrs. Hope
Osborne (Jugiong) ; Mrs. and Miss Charles
Mackinnon (Dandaloo), Mr. and Lady Bea-
trice Kerr-Clark, the Agar Wynnes, and the
(Melbourne) Lorimers have also descended
Avith much luggage on Sydney’s best-known
hotels. Elastic sides for residential bos-
telries in Easter week are the new desire of
prayerful proprietors. Can no budding archi-
tect suggest some new and rapid method of
fitting hotel fire-escapes with portable bed
and breakfast cages?
Included in the Victorian invasion of this
city are Mrs. George Buchanan and her
matrimonial acquisition. Everyone remem-
bers the Aliwa thrill at Flemington a couple
of years ago. The fact that the owner, Who
raced under the name “M. Gordon,” Avas one
of the Robertsons of Mt. Mitchell, was the
social surprise-packet of Cup week, 1908.
Mrs. Buchanan generally follows the cut of
the tailor-made. At one Easter outing,
however, her smartly-built coat and skirt
was guilty of a minor digression. It ap-
peared in conjunction with a smallish hat,
tenanted by a long feather Avith a frivolous
curl in its tail.
The Public Schools Exhibit at the Easter
ShoAV supplied fresh proofs that Squeers
Avas merely before his time. At Dotheboys
Hall, in his regime, “window” became a
hard-boiled fact. It was badly spelt—in hur-
ried moments- —but it had to be well cleaned.
The modern educational diet is an improved
version of the Squeers combination of
mind and muscle. It attacks the Young
Idea in two places. Nature studies intro-
duce the State school infant to agricultural
tools as mental stimulants. He is then
confronted Avith a spade and a bald patch
of earth. He vigorously assaults the verb
“to dig.” CamperdoAvn Infants plunged in
pumpkins, and grew large, aggressive-looking
marrows for the Show. Miss McGregor,
their school marm, enthuses on spade and
hoe drill.
Miss Reilly mothers six or seven hundred
infants (from four to eight years young)
at the Leichhardt Public School. Her ef-
forts to introduce the Australian child to the
history of his own land have made her kin-
dergarten a gathering of incurable optim-
ists. “This bit of the world belongs to
us,” was the Leichhardt baby’s defiance to
foreign foes. It placed this legend over its
school exhibit, in bold, black letters. The
materialised expression of tender youth, this
kindergarten show tracked the history of
N.S.W. in plasticene models, from the first
landing of the white man to the disgorging
of wool and wheat, per railway trucks, at
Darling Harbor to-day. Clancy of the
Overflow, “gone a-droving down the Cooper,”
got his plasticene sheep perilously near a
permanent way of white tape. An up-
country picnic party of white rabbits, tear-
fully contemplating a wheat field, through a
wire-netted fence, was an affecting spectacle
to the man from out back. Pioneer’s hut,
farmer’s homestead, aboriginals with their
hair standing on end (owing to the deter-
mined efforts of Captain Cook’s cutter to
navigate their front garden), a bullock team
dragging a load of avool across the plains—
here was the Leichhardt infants’ challenge
to the Australian imagination.
Mr. Hope Johnston, of the Annandale
tartan clan, set out on a bold adventure
when he founded a Pioneers’ Club in Syd-
ney. Explorers and notable first-aids to
settlement —Captain Cook, John Oxley, Cap-
tain Flinders, R.N., Rear-Admiral Hind-
marsh, Joseph Banks, Surveyor-General
Mitchell, Edward Henty, William Lawson —
were amongst those present, in oils, at the
official opening. In the “First Fleet” con-
tingent, Judge-Advocate Collins and others
scratch a sore place.
Of the Mulgoa Cox family, really nasty
things can be said by men who buy miles of
rabbit-proof wire-netting. George Cox, in
the younger part of the nineteenth century,
seems to have pioneered in pet rabbits.
Writing to a boy friend in the Cobbitty-
llassail autocracy, he was guilty of the fol-
lowing : —-
You said you would like to have a bantam hen,
which I will give you with pleasure. The rabbits
are not doing quite so well as we could wish, but
for all that 1 shall not despair.
Charles Smith’s memory deserves a Moreton
Bay fig-leaf from the Pioneer Club. An
early inhabitant of Wollongong, he is al-
leged to have been one of the first believers
in home-grown Australian hats. He tried
them on his young daughters, who, in the
era of early-Victorian cottage bonnets, made
a dashing departure from imported millinery
by wearing broad-brimmed “cabbage-trees.”
This spirited conduct made an indelible im-
pression on whiskerless youth. “A fashion
new to me,” mused James Hassall, as in old
age he scraped together the ashes of his boy-
hood.
Miss Alfreda Lamb, who is going to marry
Lieut. Ilaire-Foster, intends to gravitate
round Coronation parts. She will leave
Sydney in the German steamer Seydlitz on
April 22. Miss Lamb is one of this city’s
admitted belles. Nature, a spiteful jade to
some of us, gave Alfreda a cream-and-roses
complexion, the correct shade in golden-
brown hair and a sweet temper. This triple
alliance of charms will stay with a step-
sister, Mrs. Tickle, in the Cold-land capital.
The German school of music has perman-
ently captured Lily Delany, a bright girl
whose father, the late J. A. Delany, did so
much for choir music in this city. Berlin
is reported to be Lily’s (or does she now
transpose it into Lillie?) headquarters at
the present moment.
Josephine Marks is another Sydney girl
who means to set a Teutonic trade-mark on
her large soprano voice. Her ultimate des-
tination is an inarticulate German town. Its
name broke up Attorney-General Holman’s
musical monologue at the recent Josephine
Marks concert, and Mr. Holman admitted
he couldn’t circumnavigate its heavy-weight
gutterals. I can only add a tributary tear.
The Australian girl has acquired the
habit of making her presence felt, in art and
music. Miss Bessie Gibson, of Queensland,
is named, with polite approval, by several
Fogland papers. As a miniature painter, she
is accused of adding to clever technique the
elusive art of catching a likeness. The
Royal Academy and Salon have long opened
their sacred portals to Bessie Gibson’s brush
work. The last London mail brought, as
a belated news item, word of her inclusion
amongst artists invited to show their work
at the International Exhibition in Rome.
The first Australian military station for
“wireless” poked a wet nose into a pall of
fine rain on Easter Sunday. South Head’s
R.A.A. contingent achieved this triumphant
rejuvenation of the old Camera Obscura
shanty. Disguised in a coat of new paint,
and its roof neatly patched, its inside hums
with the buzz of “wireless” remarks. An
innocent-looking glass jar, that might do
duty for pickled onions, is filled with bottled
lightning. “Pit-pit-pit” says the electric
spark. The operator reads the message.
Feminine knowledge of air waves reels be-
fore the glass-jar language. It’s as easy to
understand as an early. Egyptian epitaph in
unknown letters. Mephistopheles, Telefunken
and Co. are chief directors of this Easter-
camp attraction.
Elinor Foster, now representing . Claire
Forster in “The Woman in the Case,” is an
unusually upstanding importation. She is
six feet high in her walking shoes, and one of
the Amazons of the mummers’ craft. It’s part
of her stage business, as Claire, to go to the
Devil in a convincing creation in cream satin
with fringed tunic effects. There are the
usual champagne accessories. When H. G.
Wells calls his gentle Margaret (in the “New
Machiavelli”) “a protesting blue flower upon
a cinder-heap,” he head-lines a nature too
fine for its environment. Miss Foster’s
quarrel with fate is as to her size. She
protests she is not too fine, but often too
large, for her environment.
“When I went on tour with Benson’s
Company,” she remarks in parenthesis, “I
was frequently too tall for the parts. With
Sir Herbert Tree’s company—also on tour —
I played Roma in ‘The Eternal City,’ and
thought my fortune was made. It wasn’t,
however! Professor Gilbert Murray’s play
from Euripides gave my six feet another
chance. As a Greek goddess I felt less at
loggerheads with my height. In a recent
American tour with ‘Mr. Hopkinson,’ I had
a very good part, the Duchess. A Duchess
can be tall, so I was quite happy.” On
Friday night Miss Foster, after having her
head banged against the sofa by Margaret
Rolfe at the Criterion, will get into a blue
and silver gown, and depart in peace to the
Union Club Ball.
Miss Eadith Walker’s determined attempt
to introduce Australia at the Nice carnival
included a floral kangaroo. He has been
called hard names by globe-trotters of every
denomination. French writers who men-
tioned the Australian emblem hurled a fresh
accusation at him. They described him as
a calf. The French language gets out of
its depth when it meets anything so pre-
historic as an old man kangaroo.
A small dinner party in Suburbia last
week had the proverbial “bad quarter of an
hour” before feeding time, brightened by the
domestic help. There was only one guest to
arrive. Teams of working bullocks won’t
tear her name out of my inky fingers. Miss
X represents dead languages with distinc-
tion. She is too modest to show an ankle-
bone to a live shoeblack. She is a learned
edition of the . higher proprieties in their se-
verest moods; but she was unfortunately
late for dinner. “Has Miss X come yet?”
asked the hostess. The imported hand-
maiden showed sudden signs of intelligence.
She replied: “Yes, ’m, but she’s just taking
her clothes off!”
Mr. Frank Coffee, whom I mentioned last
week, isn’t a naturalised Australian, though
he is every other sort of Australian that he
ought to be.
Joseph Bernard takefe “Sincerity” as the
name of his new waltz. Paling and Co. pub-
lish it, and Miss Blanche Browne lends a
smiling countenance to the cover. The
“Sincerity” is a melodious and rhythmic en-
couragement to waltzers to go on dancing to
the last chord.
“And others” fills an aching void. It
comes to relieve the strain from which every
harvester of social corroborees must suffer
in blue and inky interludes. “Amongst
those present” has almost departed this life.
“And others” belongs to the higher affinities.
It arrives with a heavy thud, at the end of
a Society dance. Thus —“There were pre-
sent my Lord Fitzbodle, my Lady Flighty,
and others who are unworthy to be men-
tioned in this highly respectable paper,”
Paderewski’s wife is responsible for the
poultry farm intrusion in an elevated career
of classic chords. The French Government
has now set the official seal of its approval
on this exploit in feminine fowl-culture. Ac-
cording to British Australasian, Madame
Paderewski is branded for life as Chevaliere
du Merite Agricole. The Australian wo-
man who runs a poultry farm is content
with much simpler epithets. Her best
friends call her a fool.
A versatile Japanese artist in London,
who hides behind the name Yosliio Markino,
has found a new title for Englishwomen. He
addresses them as “John Bullesses,” in the
English Review. He says“ This is my
home-made English for the Englishwoman.”
Yoshio prostrates himself before the muscle
of John Bulless. He backs up his own
opinion by introducing to print an almond-
eyed friend. “One of my friends has been
all over the world; he says, “Comparing the
English women with others, I find out the
former’s meat looks much harder.” This
naive admiration is tempered by a mild
Asiatic explosion on the low-cut evening
gown. Yoshio agrees—quite unconsciously—
with Mr. Judkins. He considers the Euro-
pean ball-room too immoral for Japanese!
As I close this letter, spasms of rain are
mingling their tear-drops with those of the
Holiday Girl. Her Easter Monday frock is
a limp memory of Saturday’s bright promise.
Yours, with a broad nib,
VANDORIAN.


:1
M
lit
mmm
s'S-rtc
■$M,
&
K&j
mm
--
L
ii? t ■
hit
sN.
m
/
,}r ’;•.'.s£**£7 ’ \ v .\ \ M
-i?*PW,--u
J
//
i tim§L
\.» \s* «K * -V-I.a
%Mf. Mm
I r»; j , » |hl
IfTSIr 'wMjmlml
if li 5
(t, * ?
4ffiw:^O r /mm§
WWXV-.
-iS'-K
lIP
t-
rlm! — ~
'•
■tm:b^.;r
S«
M
||Bf'
•st;
TlA'Stt* H«|
?..* 4- ! f'li S I?*§W
j. -**B3 s££
k; ii||f
111 m
•^W
&ih
3 .*• ‘- :
!«
& Vi
COBRA, 15he Floor Polish, is as
g'ood as COBRA, S6c Boot Polish.
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Down the hall goes
Skat ing too.
Not a scratch
He leaves behind
That a microscope
Gould find.
Smiling always—
Thin and tall,
Swiftly up and down
The hall.
Of his skates
He’s very fond,
And the safe old
Polish Pond.


DUNLOP
a
%
RUBBER
make hard pavements feel like
pile carpet.
YOU can walk further, with
less exertion and more comfort,
when using our soft Dunlop
Heels—TßY THEM.
Varibus Shapes and Sizes. Obtainable All Leading
Stores. Accept only 41 Dunlop ” Brand.
THS DUNLOP RUBBER CO., All States and N.Z.
Are
You
Using
\ ,
tr'4 \
.-ry
8T
SR3
oUNLOp
MOTOR
TYRE?
fV
If not-try them!
They are now easily
the best wearing Tyre
on the market, their
QUALITY and their
CONSTRUCTION en-
suring a bigger mileage
than any other Tyre.
• A M
Save money and trouble
by using “Dunlops.”
MM*
DUNLOP RUBBER CO , All State* and N.Z.
Costumes 8 Riding Habits
'
- ;; . ■ *■
are Known All Over Australia.
WRITE OR CALL FOR
CATALOGUE OF NEW^FASHIONS.
323 George Street, Sydney
Opp.
'Paling's.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, April 17, 1911.
My Dear Yarrie,—
A recent official garden party would have been
a colorless function but for the latest Chinese
ambassador, who attended in full dress and
underneath a hat whose red silk tassel suggested
Etna in eruDtion. His tunic, or smoking jacket,
was embroidered with improbable poultry in blue,
scarlet and gold ; while a wide neck-to-knee box-
quilt suggested that he had either recently shrunk
or made provision for future expansion. As
he rustled by, I noticed that the boots he was
wearing beneath all this Oriental magnificence
were the latest European cloth tops. 1 felt
defrauded on detecting the mixture. Does the
educated Chinaman take his fancy-dress seriously,
or does he regard it as a solemn official joke which
does not extend as far as his boots?
The bush-nursing scheme, hatched by Lady
Dudley, having got through the worst of its very
early chickenhood, has just grown a second
feather; the little Countess personally installed
the second nurse at Gunbower on Sunday. Now
the committee sees its way to send a third to
Powlett coalfield. The three are to receive from
the G.-G.’s lady brooches in the design of a beech
leaf to commemorate the starting of the scheme at
Beech Forest.
Ballarat is in the throes of creating a District
Nursing Society. All the leading women of the
South-street city put on their new autumn clothes
and made for the City Hall last week to witness
the launching of the scheme. The energetic
Melbourne District Nursing Society sent up its
most influential members to lend a well-gloved
band. President Mrs. Hood, his Honor’s wife,
limped along in spite of an injured ankle. Mrs.
Alfred Deakin, who is on the committee of the
Melbourne D.N.S., likewise attended. She is
heart and soul in the movement, and Ballarat, of
course, is the Deakins’ second home. Melbourne
Vice-President Mrs. Lang was another who
journeyed up; and the Mayoress of Geelong
accompanied the vice-president of the Geelong
D.N.S. The town which is so falsely accused
of being asleep has had a nurse for the
poor for four years, and its society is
now flourishing. _ Craig’s Hotel entertained all
these visitors during their stay as a special dona-
tion to the good cause. There are two or three
18-carat nurses available to take up the work
directly those in charge of the necessary financial
arrangements are ready.
The Alfred Hospital Fair preparations had
their climax on Saturday at the Exhibition. The
debt on the big healing-house is the cause of the
whole charitable commotion. Governor Car-
michael was to have turned the oratorical key ;
but, unhappily, the genial man developed a sore
throat and had to shut himself up in the house
that turns a pale face to the Yarra and all its
deadbeats. In his absence, the Carmichael lady
made the necessary remarks, and gave those pre-
sent permission to spend whatever money they
had brought with thehi, and anything more that
they could borrow. Gaud Mayor Davey, with a
bunch of violets in his buttonhole, explained the
case for the hospital and how urgent was the need
to borrow a lot.
A number of Druids,'hung with horse-collars of
gold, made a stolid semi-circle on the platform.
Grand President Jones spoke for the “Order”;
and auditor Flack, vice-president of the Alfred
Hospital, voiced the thanks of the debt-burthened
institution. Then the Fair was opened and the
birds began to sing—mostly about raffles. With
her, Lady Carmichael had grown-up niece Ena,
in purple velvet and ermjne furs, and small niece
Mary, enveloped in white.cloth. Mrs. Mayoress
Davey wore white plumps in her hat, and black
garbing. At a convenient moment, a small child,
with a very short frock and a very long curtsey,
passed on- the usual presentation bouquets.
Twenty stalls or so, representing an old street
in an old English town, hold, the loot of months.
Scouts assail one everywhere with books of raffle
tickets, and penny-a-whirl tables block the traffic.
Suburban mayoresses are sprinkled about in
alarming profusion, to head off the Sassiety dame
who has money to spend.
Somewhere in the outer wilds of the Oval may-
pole dances happen at intervals. On Saturday
the dancers marched through the hall in groups.
The Irish colleens looked cute in red petticoats, red
handkerchiefs tied under their small chins, and a
green jacket apiece. Programmes of various
kinds are being wedged in ; but personally I never
could listen to a concert in the Exhibition while a
bazaar was raging profitably at the other end of
the great barn.
The Buchanan-Cumming wedding last Thurs-
day was the smartest and most charming of recent
orange-blossomings. Muriel Cumming, the last
of handsome old Tom Cumming’s daughters, has
always been a favorite, and her proud.' father,
leading a pale and solemn-faced bride .up the
aisle, looked as if he had spent a good ••ynany
mournful hours thinking over the fact thajf her
bridegroom would take her off to Scotland. <jThe
bride was wrapped in so much priceless lace tjjiat
she would have offered a tempting investment to
an enterprising firm of brigands. The court traift,
of her gown was a wonderful web of Limerick, a
family heirloom. It was the end of Mrs." Jack
Cumming’s presentation dress, when that young
lady was Miss May Wragge and made her bow to
the Queen. At this its latest outing Mrs. Jack
Cumming’s daughter Margie was its bearer.
Two other infants followed—Mrs. Gerald Cum-
ming’s daughter Mary and little May Robertson.
The trio were frocked in lavender and white,
with May-flowers in their hair. The other mem-
ber of the escort was a kilted warrior of the
Lauchlan McKinnon clan. There were no grown-
up maids of honor, and the two uniformed grooms-
men—Captain Rome and Guy Madden —had the
limelight to themselves. Bridegroom Captain
Kenneth Gray Buchanan wore the handsome
uniform of his regiment, the Seaforth High-
landers.
The wedding was purposely delayed half an
hour to allow the G.-G. Dudley and his Countess
time to get from the Sydney express to the
reserved front seats. The G.-G. had on a com-
fortable travelling suit of grey, and the Countess
was in cream lace, with hat and parasol to
match. Mrs. Cumming was gowned in black,-
and wore joyful pink roses in her bonnet.
Mrs. Jack Cumming’s dress was a dream
of white Limerick lace. Mrs. Robertson, a
sister of the clan, waved blue plumes in her black
hat.
The wedding was in Scots’ Church, in Collins-
street; and Dr. Marshall, huge and benign, per-
formed the lengthy ceremony. Willy Steele, at
the organ, rolled out “Star of Eve” on the ’cello
stop while the vestry formalities were being
scribbled through. The reception and refresh-
ment of the guests happened at Maritime, Mrs.
Fred Payne's house in South Yarra. .As Hie bride
came out of the church on her way thither a
sunshower descended like a hatful of diamonds.
The Dudleys lent The Bungalow, Sydney, for the
honeymooning, and the Countess sent the bride
off with a beautiful fan, with sticks of mother-of-
pearl.
Instead of the usual shower bouquet, or Early
Victorian posy,” the bride carried one huge
creamy magnolia bloom in its own leaves.
Though Carmichael and his popular lady are
to be wrested from us, Secretary Victor Hood,
who is almost a naturalised Australian, is to re-
main in these parts as Chamberlain to the ap-
proaching Excellency-General. He has a nod-
ding acquaintance with most parts of this con-
tinent, and is welcomed in all the State capitals.
The Carmichaels went to see “The Belle” at
the Royal, and took quite a large party with
them. The circle was packed with those who love
to be near a Governor. The stalls are, nowadays,
the refuge of fashion ; but the vice-regal people
are loyal to the elevated perch, so, on command
nights, Sassiety goes upstairs instead of shivering
in full undress in the cataract of draughts which
pours over the footlights. The Carmichael lady
enveloped herself in black and many diamonds.
The “Belle” is a gorgeous study in hats.
There is nothing necessarily very old-fashioned
about an eighteenth century hat. It is merely,
as likely as not, the hat of the year-before-last—
though, where Society’s hats are concerned, the
space between the present and the year before
last is an eternity. Gertrude Gilliam as the
Belle wears various early Brittany models, from a
dainty cap of lace (the newest thing of 1911) to a
nightmare of an inverted waste-paper basket,
wrapped round with lace and butter-color ribbons.
Victorian artists have been waving valedictory
brushes at Governor Carmichael. His Ex. has
taken a genuine, unofficial-interest in the creations
and even the crimes of local painters. He has
attended their displays with a courage that not
even some of their productions could daunt. He
has talked art with then), often at the risk of
ignoring a buttered social engagement. Occa-
sionally he has bought their pictures ; he has even
commissioned a few when- his Scawtch caution
was dozing. Artists will really regret- his de-
parture. He has been a good patron, without a
prejudice and without a pose.
“ Yes ” and “No ” howled at one another in
the Melbourne Town Hall one night last week,
and left so much political fog on the premises that
it required the full strength of the Nationalßose
Society’s display of perfumed blooms to clear the
atmosphere on the following day.
Experts say this year’s show was poor ; but
to the ordinary flower-lover the petals and per-
fume were exquisite beyond description. There
was no stiffness in. the arrangement of the ex-.
Dibits ; the big hall gave one the impression of a
tangled garden. The society, which is now in its
seventh year, is made up of the most exclusive
and enthusiastic rose-garden owners in Australia.
At ope time, nothing but the bloom was allowed in
the show. Nowadays, however, lady members
spend hours in decorating the hall with greenery,
which serves humbly as a background to the
royally exclusive flowers. The red roses domi-
nated the stands this year, with “General
McArthur” in the lead.
As a result of having rival camps of musicians
on the premises, Melbourne folk are being kept
well supplied with melody. The Orchestral
Society concerted, on a recent Tuesday night, in
the Town Hall, under the baton of J. W. Dawson.
Goldmark’s “Rustic Wedding”—a beautiful
symphony hitherto unknown in these parts —was
the biggest plum with which the programme was
baited. To the orchestra’s accompaniment, F. R.
Collier sang Wolfram’s “Star of Eve” solo from
“ Tannhauser,” and the Toreador song from
“Carmen,” which latter roused the big audience
to encore pitch. But, of course, the audience
which could not be made to sit up and applaud
violently by a good rendering of the bull defiance
might be regarded as so much lifeless clay.
A new golf links at Cheltenham is gathering in
the golfers who have taken up the ancient and
profane game too late to secure house-room else-
where. All the established clubs are mournfully
repelling the energetic person who wants to clout
a small ball for miles and miles and do a little
hoeing in between. Sandringham, where cham-
pion the Hon. Michael Scott practised without
ceasing:, cannot receive another member; and it is
the same story on all greens.
lor women the red golfing coat no longer marks
one off from the non-golfing rabble who stay at
home and putt their own greens on the gas-stove.
Every shop is selling red sweaters and knitted
jackets; and women who would cheerfully use a
brassie to poke the fire with, hurry to and from
suburban shops in the vivid garment which used
to distinguish the haughty female linker.
Margaret Cuthbertson, an energetic woman
who holds the important post of senior woman-
inspector of factories, spends her hours of ease
playing bowls. Bowls used to be considered the
pastime of benevolent old gentlemen ; but the
middle-aged man and the young man found out
that it had a lot of points about it, and started to
compete with their fathers and grandfathers on
the billiard-table greens. Finally women took it
up ; and then they played for the championshin,
which Miss Cuthbertson won. The St. Vincent’s
(South Melbourne) Bowling Club presented her
with a really useful trophy last Saturday—a com-
fortable Chesterfield sofa, on which she can rest
after seeing to the comfort of others.
Fashionable weddings are just now as plentiful
as gorse blooms. There seems to be a furious
competition in silk and lace, bridesmaids and
rose leaves, and all the frocky surroundings'of a
swaggah matrimonial coupling. The orchestra
that soothes the diners at the Grand is thinking
of putting the Wedding March on its programme
every day ; there seems always to be a breakfast-
ing bride on the premises. Miss Hamilton,
daughter of Education-Department Hamilton,
was gaily toasted there on Saturday evening. The
for-better,-or-worse partner was Mr. Cox, of Ade-
t Sixty gu'ests gathered round the groaning
board and relieved it of some of the breakfast—
which, of bourse, was really supper.
A. bride-to-be, who. “parties” shortly at the
tall Spring-street hotel, is Miss Alice Driscoll,
one of Bendigo’s sweet girls. She says “ I will ”
to Mr. William C. Paul, a Sydneysider, on
Wednesday.
At a quiet, business-like wedding at All Saints’,
Prahran, on the 10th, Adeline, youngest blossom
of William Raleigh, became Mrs. Fred Mann.
The groom, a man-o’-law, was one time Master of
the Melbourne Hunt Club Hounds. The three
bridesmaids were blooms from the Raleigh,
Officer and Ryan gardens. The bride comes of a
family of hard riders, and hardly ever missed a
run ; her favorite mount was an old hunter of Lord
Hopetoun’s. Sister Hilda (who was chief brides-
maid) is also a well-known and handsome figure in
chase after the deceived and misguided
hounds. -.J': .. ' j ■
It had been stated that on the completion of
Miss Gertrude Gilliam’s matrimonial undertaking
with Mr. A. C. Lyons, she exist; on the
usual bliss and muffins in a Sydney suburb! It is
now understood that Sydney will not be the
address of the lady of Lyons. After she is safely
married, she will fly to a nest near the British
capital. The retreat is alongside Hammersmith
Bridge, and has the Thames for one of its
neighbors
Fan Dango has returned quietly to Australia
with her husband, and is now playing a demure
squatteress part near Berwick. She wandered
down to Melbourne for the first matinee of “The
Waltz Dream” to applaud Lottie Sargent, who
has succeeded to her old part of Franzi.
The newest Sassiety baby is the Fairbairn-
Balmain acquisition, which arrived in time
for Good Friday buns. The youngster is just now
shouting its orders at Dunraven, the Fairbairns'
Toorak house, but is shortly to be bundled off
to Coolat, to watch the gambols of the station
lambs and grow fat in peace.
..Please don’t think that, because I told you that
Miss Mollie Carew has “ been engaged by J.C.W.
to play Miss Nellie Wilson’s parts,” that Miss
Nellie Wilson isn’t going to play any more parts.
There are, in fact, innumerable parts that Miss
Wflson can play, and play well; but as she can’t
play all of them, .T.C. W. has engaged Miss Mollie
to play some of those that Miss Nellie would play
if she were several Wilsons instead of only one.
Mrs. “Olive Morel!” Kelly and her little
Willie are now pinned to the edge of the London
social whirl. They have secured aflat at Knights-
bridge, where the lady regularly dispenses food
and aerated conversation.
- Miss Asquith Baker is to hold a picture
exhibition in the top room of the Athenaeum after
the MtCobbin show moves out. Invitations are
■flying through the post for the opening on
Tuesday, April 25. After that the multitude
may flock in and gaze until May 5. . ,
Before she left for England, the lately-widowed
Mrs. L. L. Lewis—Rosa Dunn of the Melbourne
stage of the late ’so’s and early ’6o’s—presented a
library of 400 volumes, mostly standard works, to
the women students of Melbourne University.
Among the books is an autograph volume pre-
sented to Mrs. Lewis by Mathew Arnold. The
library will be called the “Rosa L. L. Lewis,’.’
and will be held in trust by the University’s
Princess Ida Club.
Dorothy Humphries, one of the many sweet-
voiced Australians, was appointed chief soloist at
St. Pat.’s Cathedral a week or two ago. She is a
pupil of Freddie Beard.
In the complete electric cooker, women who
are suffering from the prolonged scarcity of
Marianne think they see their deliverance from
one house trouble, at least. People in other parts
of the world where electric power is available are
gradually overcoming prejudices and utilising the
mysterious “juice” for small domestic needs.
Westralia is ahead in this respect. At Kalgoorlie
housekeepers use electricity for more than light-
ing, and deal in units instead of feet. One
Groper lady, who has long forgotten what it is like
to command a maid, tells me she sets her ordinary
alarm clock for a certain hour—say 7. The clock
has an electric attachment with her electric stove,
so that when the alarm goes off the stove glows
under the kettle of water which has been left
ready overnight. By the time the labor-saving
scientist comes downstairs, the morning tea is
simply dancing to be made. The only trouble iis
that a lot of people must be induced to use elec-
tricity in order to make it cheaper than gas.
Talking of Marianne the almost extinct. I met
the other day a wealthy bu t cookless woman who was
on the point of collapse through having sat for
eight hours without refreshments in a registry
office. In that time one hundred would-be em-
ployers of cooks had called in—and exactly tvio
would-be cooks. One of them was a tired woman
with a baby, the other a broken-down factory-
hand. All the time the hungry and hopeless
seeker was_tortured by thoughts of a foodless hus-
band boiling-over at home, and two helpless
gadabout daughters without the slightest kitchen
experience. Soon these unhappy women will
either have to learn how to cook, or else eat their
food raw.
From my Adelaide correspondent
The Adelaide Literary Theatre opened its season with
“The Servant in the House” on Saturday night. The
play isn’t an easy one, but there were no complaints from
the front. Miss Olive Proctor satisfactorily filled the gap
left by Miss Maud Plunkett’s desertion to professionalism.
Lovely woman and her fashions are attracting no end
of attemion just now—and some abuse. F’rinstanee, the
Municipal Tramway Trust has reluctantly, not to’ say
swearfully, arranged matters so that its cais can be
boarded without the aid of a stepladder or hoist. Said
one civic dignitary, when the council received the report
of the innovation: “It’s all owing to hobble skirts.” A
city hotel boasts a bar-lady who wears the harem variety
—in tweed—and has much to say in favor of its comfort.
The S.P.C.A. has lost the services of Mrs. Secretary
Ennis. This active animal-lover first pitched her tent in
South Australia in the days of horse cars, and at once
waged indignant warfare against authorities and passen-
gers who allowed the poor brutes to haul over-crowded
trams along ill-repaired rails. It was hi a luge measure
the result of her efforts that inspectors were appointed
to limit the number of passengers. Her place is to be
taken by the wife of medico O’Leary, of Glenelg. She’s
equally an animal enthusiast, and can be relied upon to
carry through anything she takes in hand.
The Bach Society took possession of the Town Hall on
Tuesday, and gave a worthy rendering of “The Dream of
Gerontius.” Eugene Alderman led the orchestra, and
George Gardiner, Mus. Bae., presided over the destinies
of the organ ; and we’ve every reason to be proud of both
of them.
Saturday’s A.R.O. races were practically a replica of the
S.A.J.G. fixture of the week before—good weather, good
racing, rather medley frocking, and one biggish dividend
to the tune of £2l 7s. Clerics and bookmakers rave in
vain—totalisator investments show a steady, upward
move.
The death of Major Harry Tomkinson opens up some
pages of early-day history. His father, Mr. Samuel Tom-
kinson, was one oflthe old school of politicians and pub-
lic men. He had strong Conservative opinions and an
Old-World punctilious manner, and he made his home a
brilliant social centre. The Tomkinsons were one of the
first to pitch their summer tent at Mount Lofty ; but
the comfortable family home there has been on the
market for some time.
Mrs. de Neufville Lucas, whose husband was one time
in the 40th Regiment, died last week. ' She had totalled
50 years of residence in the Commonwealth.
You’ve already heard about the “ Gay Gordons’ ” motor
smash, doubtless. Luckily, the calamity occurred near a
hospital and a doctor—J. A. G. Hamilton. He’d have a
fellow-feeling for the sufferers, as he was knocked dow n
himself by a motor t’other day. He escaped with nothing
worse than a shaking and a damaged suit of clothes.
Theosophistjs are descending on us in force for a confer-
ence, or congregation, or something, and the result of
their communings will probably provide local divines
with texts for a twelvemonth. Nevertheless, the
’osophy in question is on the increase, and a good many
people wbo don’t profess it cast a curious eye over its
official publications.
The Mooltan threw' Adelaide into a mild fever of alarm
by arriving at the Semaphore with a case of smallpox
board. A message by wireless forewarned the Health
uthorities, who attended in force and ordered the Ade-
laide passengers, numbering- 72, to Torrens Island.
Thirty-six allowed themselves to be bathed in formalin
and vaccinated, whereupon they were suffered to join
their families on the mainland. The rest, including
the ‘'case” —a jockey, from India, named Butters—
were detained. A grim instance of the workings of the
Tyrant Socialism !
Sincerely yours,
JOHANNA.
A Melbourne auctioneer’s advt. concern-
ing a sale at Paseoevale mentions that “this
beautiful valley and surrounding hills were
selected by John Pascoe Fawkner in the early
days of Melbourne’s foundation,” It is a true
bill. Fawkner went out just beyond Essendon,
and took up land, intending to live the life of a
farmer alongside the city he had helped to found ;
but the discovery of gold altered his plans, as it
did those of many others, and he never tickled
the soil thereabouts.


4
t
.
*■' V?
m
k
m
s&i
m
m
;: ■■ ~*;
mss
Rii
i
■ ; -
■
:
I®
m
%
■
Ho;{
' % ♦
sbk
1
r r - •■
,K
s
bl
i
4
MW
* '
• m
•
a
to
y
r.
L_
PtthftjK** >J \S f a
’ Vi
vi • '
■
■
Made from Fresh Lemons.
Mixed with Schweppes* Soda Water or Lithia Water,
maKes a most Delightful and Refreshing DrinK.
Purveyors Mineral Waters to His Majesty the King*
Till
Head Office : 49 Pall Mall, London.
Agencies throughout
the World.
n m
99
THE NEW DRINK.
Palatable arid Refreshing'. Made from the Best
Jamaica Sarsaparilla Root. A Blood Purifier.
BOTTLED
by SCHWEPPES LTD.


The electors don’t seem to be violently
agitated about the Referenda. But those who go
to the poll illuminated by D.C.L. inspiration will
do their best to steer progress along wise and
healthy routes. The wisest progress finds its best
ally in D.C.L., the Whisky of the Wise.*
A cold,
bud by a
overy for
Nipped in the Bud.
cough or influenza can be nipped in the
few doses of Dr. Sheldon’s New Dis-
coughs and colds. Price Is. 6d. and 3s.*
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy is not a
common, every-day cough mixture. It is a meritori-
ous remedy for all dangerous and troublesome
complications resulting from colds in the head,
chest or lungs.*
COVERED WITH A RASH.
Distressing case that continued
until Blood Treatment
was tried.
Impurities in the blood causing Skin
Rashes and Eczema can be treated satisfac-
torily only by driving the impurities from
the system. That is really the only com-
mon-sense way. Ointments and greasy things
to rub on often make matters worse by clog-
gU Mr th M. P O’Mara, of 409 Lonsdale Street,
Melbourne, found his life miserable tor
months with Eczema, drawing not a partic e
of benefit from all the things he rubbed on.
He finally cured himself with Dr. Williams
Pink Pills, which have a specific action on
the blood, and are strongly recommeded in
th “ S Fox- a months I suffered with Eczema,”
said Mr. O’Mara. “It appeared first on my
arms, then it spread down the front ot my
body, on my thighs and as far as the calves
of iny legs, in the form of a dry scale which
you could rub off in a white powder, it 1
rubbed the skin hard it would go quite raw
and inflamed. I could not go to business tor
some weeks, as my clothes irritated the
parts dreadfully. Countless tiny red pim-
ples, with matter, would push through the
skin and itch, and a rash would come out in
large patches. I might say that my poor
body was covered with small sores, and as
fast as some would go others would come i
got very thin. I could not eat or sleep foi
the terrible itching. I was told it 1 took
mineral water baths I would get .better, so
I went to Dalesford and took them tor
weeks, and they didn’t do me any good, i
bought some ointment and took sulphur,
thinking that might cure me, but it did not.
It would only stop the itching for a little
while. I grew quite ill, with worry and
weakness. I thought I was permanently a -
foe Led, when one day I read that Dr. Wil-
liams’ Pink Pills had cured Eczema, so 1
sent at once and got some, and took, between
nine and ten boxes, and here is the result.
I am completely cured, and mv skin is as
clean as ever it was. If it had not been
for Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills I don t think I
would ever have got better. I am sure no
one has ever suffered more than I did, and
after trying various treatments, for ur. W U-
liams’ Tink Pills to cure me proves their
worth. I shall speak well of them wherever
The price is 2s. fid. per box, six boxes
15s. 3d., and if you have trouble in getting
them send a postal note for the amount to
the Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co. of Austra-
lasia Ltd.. Sydney, and they will be sent
post free by return mail.
MptorP
Our Special
Elastic Truss
enables ful-
lest activity,
with a mind
free fro in
worry. Pro-
perl y sup-
portsandpro- Single 17/6;
tects, and has pouble 22/6
no irritating ", Call or write,
steel bands. «. ,
We assure exact fit. DENYER BROS., Makers
of Trusses and Abdominal Belts, '-81 GEOUGE
ST. (opp. Hunter St.), SYDNEY ; and at Mel-
bourne, cr of Swanston and Lonsdale Streets.
denyer
©
POLITICAL
POINTS
“Ramoth Gilead”: Australians are a
lucky people, according to Alfred Deakin. . the
regulation of wages and conditions of labor on
railways,” be says, “will put the freights and
charges and the number of trains you are to run, all
under the control of men who don t have to con-
tribute to them.” Now, if the people of Australia
don’t have to contribute to the upkeep of their
railways, who does? Do the Japs do it ? Or do
the Hindus send us a yearly remittance for that
purpose, or the Hottentots? Or does Alfred the
Insufferable keep them jigging out of his private
income? Or do they just grow, like trees and
boils? Or what?
IN THE REFERENDUM RING.
With respect to monopolies, Mr. Bruce Smith showed
that no business open to opposition could be called a
monopoly.—S.M. HERALD.
THE FRIEND OF THE STRONGEST: “ But, my
dear boy , if the yen le man says 'imself that
’e's just as willing to take a hit as give
one , what do you want to tie him down to
'rules, for? ”
Sydney Telegraph, gleefully enumerating
its ridiculous posse of “No” shriekers, con-
cluded the woeful list with “Mr. B. J. Grogan,
Mr. W. Donnelly, and other members.” If seven
unsuccessful attempts to woo the electors entitle
Mr. Grogan to he dubbed a member, Jock Gar-
land, with his few gleams of success and his
M.L.C.-ship, must be several different brands of
Prime Minister. Likewise the swain who has
hung up his hat seven times to unresponsive
maids becomes automatically a Mormon of high
degree, and the rifleman who misses the target
oftenest wins the King's Prize. Also, the man
who never entered the smoking mine at Mount
Kembla naturally saved the most lives.
When the people who ask the Common-
wealth whether it would be presumptuous enough
to alter the Constitution, “the work, of the
greatest intellects of Australia,” it might be worth
while asking them, in return, to tell what they
know about these “great intellects -Moore,
Henry, Loton, Piesse, Henning Howard Taylor,
M. J. Clarke, A. Y. Hassell, Grant, and Sholl.
That i« 10 and there are 10 other “ great intel-
lects ” that thev might say something about after
they have finished with the other little lot.
There were some great intellects in the Conven-
tion • but if the bulk of the members owned great
intellects they have been forgotten in amazingly
quick time.
Kitchener’s idea of .how.M.L. .should keep
its end up :
Forty thousand men would be required to secure the
larger cities and defended ports from attack, and so main-
tain the public confidence and national credit.
And this is how Maorila'nd rises to the occasion .
Ei<dith Regiment (Southland Rifles). The Right Hon.
Sir Joseph Ward, P. 0., K.O.M.G.rfrom honorary captain
VVinton Rifles and Bluff Guards,"to be hon. colonel, with
effect from March 1,1911. —Last iveek’s M.L. Gazette.
Melbourne Argus has been at its old game
of printing under the black heading, “Labor
Rowdyism,” the worst patches of lively Referen-
dum meetings addressed by Tories. This is de-
signed to show how liberty of speech is restricted
by the Rude and Vulgar Party. But vyhat right
has the sootv ARGUS to call the Labor kettle
black? An alleged Labor crowd occasionally
refuses a particularly exasperating No-era healing
by making loud noises; but the Argus habitually
refuses the other side a hearing by butchering
their remarks with a blue pencil.
After all, perhaps, Dealdn deserves pity
more than anything else just now. He has advo-
cated almost every one of the present Referenda
proposals; many of them lie has tried to make
law, but has been blocked by the Constitution.
So, in tlie ordinary course, he would be fighting
for the proposals. But nowadays poor Deakins
Liberal party is only the tail of the lory .ass,
and it has to go the way that Fairbairn, Willie
Kellv and other fat and futile gentlemen drag
it. The voice is the voice of Deakin ; but the
noise is the noise of hee-haw.
The Age is bitterly angry with Fisher for
going to England, classing his iniquity with that of
Tom Bent when the stout statesman sent his notori-
ous batch of commissioners picnicking to a Private-
Enterprise exhibition in London at the country s
expense. Buthf Eisher had declined to v sanction
the sending of a contingent of Australian M s.P.
to the Coronation, what sort of a traitorous wretch
would he have been in the columns of the daily-
press, and how passionately would Australian
electors have been besought to say “No to the
Constitution-reforming proposals of a disloyal
Scotch devil, whose plain intention was to dis-
claim the Throne and disgrace the Person !
Extract from ' Melbourne Argus’s report
of a Referendum meeting at Port Melbourne
addressed by Paris Nesbit, K.C., late of the
Labor party, now of the Ptinservative cause
A Voice : Whv’did you leavV'the;Labor party?
Mr. Nesbit: I left the Labor'party because (Inter-
ruption.) Damn it! Let me tell you. (Laughter.)
Because I did not believe in Socialism.
A Laborer (solemnly): You swore. (Laughter.)
The swear is Hereby brought under the notice of
the Wowser readers of The Bulletin and of Mr.
Judkins -(Who, ‘of course, does not read The
Bulletin), and of all the hosts of Israel among
whose gods Paris Nesbit is numbered. No doubt'’
’twas but a choleric word ; but if Pan's ’had pe- •
niained in the Labor'party it would 'have been
flat blasphemy.'
Another Australian, J. C. Manifold, a
Western District (Vic.) squatter, has returned
from the Cold Land with a better opinion
of his country and its legislation than be had when
he left it. He talked with many British .com-
mercial men, who admitted
the superlative excellence
of this country’s produce, liiit
declared that they had to
sell the goods to consumers
under other names. Aus-
tralian butter, lie says, is
absolutely the best on the
market ; but it isn’t sold as
Australian. “French roll”
butter is very popular with
J. 'Bull at present —and some
of it Manifold identified as
from ‘Koroit. Similarly with
meat. Retailers who handle
it den’y that it comes from
Australia. In all of which
one sees the natural conse-
quences of two things. The
Stinking Fish party has habi-
tually vilified Australia for
narrow, selfish political pur-
poses ; and, instead of those
squeals being droWned by a
mighty Australian roar, each
little Stale has piped on
its own account. If every
Australian who has Aystra-
lian goods—butter, for instance—to soil had
calleddt Australian, and shouted at the top of his
voice that Australian butter was the best in the
world, the J. Bull customer might have been con-
vinced. But the butter has been “ Victorian,” or
“Queensland.” just as the apples have been
“Tasmanian”; and the forde of the advt. has
beep lost. And the loss is all ;fo be charged 'up to
State Fright and the Little Australians.
Wonthaggi, the township that has sprung
up at the Powlett (Vic.) State coal-mine, probably
enjoys a world’s municipal record. At its first
municipal election the other day nine nominees of
the Political Labor Council were returned for the
nine seats.
ALFRED'S BUSY DAY.
Mr Deakin, when seen with reference to Admiral
Henderson’s naval defence scheme, said he was not yet
in a position to express an opinion upon the Hotter. lie
had been kept so busy with other subjects that he had
not had time to peruse the report. —Daily Paper.
When the Federal Convention which
framed the Constitution met at Adelaide it sat
for its picture. In the front row were Kingston
(president), Baker (chairman of committees), J.
P Abbott, Graham Berry, E. N. Braddon, Reid,
Turner, Forrest, Zeal, Adye Douglas and Brown.
Of that lot Kingston, Baker, Abbott, Berry,
Braddon, Douglas and Brojvn are dead—all that
remain are Reid (out of politics), 1 urner (ditto),
Forrest (out of office and never likely to return),
and Zeal (representative of Fatrnan). ihe “No-
No ” crowd cries : 4 * Hands otf the Constitution .
In other words : “ Abolish self-government, and
-let the dead men rule ! ”
Melbourne Age broke'out into a diagram,
the other day, to show how absurd it would
be to attempt to govern Australia from
Yassberra. It would be as ridiculous, the
diagram showed, as having the head-office
for Timbuetoo it. London. Yet somehow
the Union Bank of Australia and the Bank
of Australasia manage to make a fair success of
things witli their head-offices in London and their
business in Australasia —and Australasia is sevei al
hundred yards further away from London than
even Timbuetoo is. In fact, they make such a
sufecess of things that their dividends are larger
thaii those paid by any other Australian banks.
Kidman, bloated cattle owner and im-
porter of London ’busdrivers, thinks Australia
should welcome the Meat r lrust; and the remark
suggests a reason for some of the frenzied oppo
sir,ion to the Referenda proposals. Perhaps there
are a lot more like Kidman who really hanker
after the Trust, and reckon, if they extend the
glad hand, to get in on the ground floor. Which
might be sweet for Kidman and the others, but
quite the opposite for the Australian consumer.
Kidman, anyway, has announced that “there will
be no more cheap meat in Australia, and that s a
sentiment that will appeal to the Swift-Armor
crowd.
There was a bold advt. in the Sydney
papers of April 4, signed oh behalf of Uncle Sam’s
War Office, notifying that sealed tenders would
be received in Manila, Philippine Islands, until
April 5 for the supply of G.jGOO,OOOIb. of frozen
fresh tieef and 200,0001 b. of frozen . fresh mutton
for army use. The advt., as mentioned, was
printed on April 4; tenders--“ sealed ’’—closed
on April 5 ; and Manila is three weeks from Aus-
tralia. Of course, the Beef Trust may not have
had anything to do with this curious arrangement.
On the contrary, it is just the sort of thing that
one would expect the Yankee Beef Trust to take
a hand in if there was 'room for a partner any-
wljere.
On Good Friday morning the Sydney
Telkgpaph looked in at the Municipal Fish
Market at Redfern and found Socialism in full
blast. But instead of rushing back to the narrow
office in King-street and feverishly publishing the
fact that the Circular Quay Ferry Tiger was loose
at the Bottle Neck suburb, the unaccountable
sheet remained in the clean, well-lighted building
and looked on approvingly while the Council s
auctioneer sold many baskets of sea-food out of
which Pirvate Enterprise formerly hooked tat
commissions. The only thing which gave the
D.T. any pain was the reflection that a number ot
fishermen, being in debt to their agents, are
unable to send their catches to the Tiger to be
sold. Then it forgot itself altogether, and asked
the Council if it would help the lame dog over the
stile by lending the catchers of fish the money
wherewith to pay off their private liabilities, so
that they might be free to come and trade with
the Socialistic Tiger.
The London Chamber of Commerce has
made a pamphlet of G. H. Reid’s recent address
on “ The Commonwealth of Australia.” lnere
is nothing in the booklet strikingly quotable
except perhaps this, in which the old man who
couldn’t be serious recalls his own old political
tricks :
In politics I do not suppose there are many here who
would advance quite'as rapidly as we Australians have
done. . .. You know there was a time when we were quite
as conservative as you are still —-(Laughter) we weie
always about to be ruined— (Laugh rp r)— just as you are
(Laughter)—but we have thrived w underfill]}'.
And, no doubt, if the Old Man Who Couldn t
Be Serious hadn’t been provided with the com-
fortable job in London, he would have been just
now publicly prophesying more ruin, and getting
ready at the same time to privately enjoy more
prosperity.
Swinburne, of the Melbourne Gas Co.,
says that practically all Australia is in favor of
regulating monopolies; still the people should
vote “No” because of the danger of unification.
This paper has much the same opinion about gas.
True, you can cook a dinner with it, and thus it
might be regarded as a desirable convenience.
But inasmuch as one might also use it to roast his
mother-in-law or a census Collector, it is obviously
something to be immediately abolished.
Has anyone noticed a violent rush of capi-
tal from the country of Victor Emmanuel and
the Pope? The cable says that the Italian
Government proposes to make a State monopo y
of the insurance business, the profits to be devoted
to old age and invalid pensions; and, according
to Fat, that ought to burst up the marriage tie
and drive capital out of the country in one act.
SWEET SORROW.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When Mr. Holman was framed, thousands of votes
which went to ttie Labor party last April were choked
off.” In dismissing: Mr. Packer the Labor League turned
awav thousands of men of independent opinion. By
muzzling or dismissing its members, one by one, the Labor
party will, by-and-bye, reduce itself to a condition of
potted solidarity—a company held together hy each
man’s terror of another’s denunciation.— Argus, S/A/JI.
The Prophetess of B ish arose and waved her voice on
high ;
Large boots were on her frantic feet and frenzy in her
eye;
Her face was beetroot red with joy, and as she leapt she
yelled
“ Gorsave the gag ! ” In her right hand her trusty gamp
she held
And swung it splendidly aloft in ecstasy, and cried,
••Freedom is dead!” Her eager grin was really rudely
wide
As she gave tongue in mad delight and wildly screamed,
“ Hooray !
Freedom is stiff, and— why, we've won ten thousand votes
this day! ”
Thus now the Hag prepares to greet new voters with a
smile,
Sheds bogus tears at Labor’s deeds, and shrieks for joy
the while ;
Groans that the cake of Liberty is dough without a
doubt,
And grins that from the wreck there’ll be fine salvage for
the Stout.
Thus now the Prophetess, by faith, sees glimmering hope
ahead,
Since Truth (th y say) is butchered quite, and Freedom’s
fallen dead.
Hist, Brethren, hearken to the Voice the while it. shout's
“ Hooray !
We’re brtter off with Freedom stiff —it brings nntie votes
our way ! ”
VICTORIA.
FRANK HENTY.
IN COMING DAYS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Out of every seven loaves consumed in Great Britain six
are imported. —Recent political speech.
When Britain’s future scribes recount the tale
Of how her glory fell,
They will not sing, till women’s cheeks grow pale,
Of bursting shot and shell;
Nor chant in glowingwords and epic phrase
The pulsing blood-song of some Day of Days;
The listeners will not hearken, rapt and dumb,
While minstrels lift the lay
That tells of marching feet and clam’rous drum
And furious lust of fray,
And how a torrent ran of hero gore,
As erst at Crecy’s field and Agincourt.
Not so ! Not so ! In quite another style
The story strange will run ;
’Twill tell of how a proud beleagured isle
Heard nought of foreign gun,
But bowed her neck and bent her beaten head
Because her warriors lacked a warrior’s bread ;
llow day by day the hostile ships of steel
Made tight their circling hold ;
How week by week there came no welcome keel
With food to stay the bold ;
And Britain’s lands, forgotten by'the’sh'are,
Could give no help when Britain’s board was bare.
And thus Britannia’s “ march o’er mountain waves”
The scribes shall write no more ;
And Famine’s victims, sleeping in their graves
Upon an untilled shore,
Shall witness bear : Not by Bellona’s frown
Did England die—Her Imports Got Her Down !
QUEENSLAND.
F. BORN.
PEACE PROPOSALS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Decent boys are to be taken from their homes and com-
pelled to associate with larrikins. I oppose and abomi-
nate the whole business. £24,000,000 is to be spent to
build a floating defiance of Christianity.— Rev. W. S.
Rollings at the Melbourne Baptist Congress, which there-
upon carried a motion in favor of perfect peace.
Australia doesn’t want to do
These things that make the Baptists buzz ;
She doesn’t want to spend a few
Sweet million pounds on ship and crew ;
She doesn’t care
To fight; but, there,
Suppose the other fellow does ?
We don’t aspire to take Japan,
Nor long to fill her fields with dead ;
But if the brown or yellow man
A raid on Melbourne town should plan,
Would R. assuage
The heathen’s rage
By hurling Bibles at his head ?
Does he propose to gather in
The dour invader, and in prim
And pious tones rebuke his sin,
Or with great sacerdotal din
And holy airs
And roar of pray’rs
To wind up by converting him?
With plague of horrid doubts we’re curst.
The Baptists all our fears to drown
Must get the Japs converted first.
For if the thing should be reversed,
What hope is there
'Twill happen ere
Our White Australia is dun brown ?
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


NICHOLSON'S
T5hQ LEADING tiOUvSE
•• • FOR ...
PIANOS.
Come and Hear the Wonderful
AUTOPIANO.
OUR
GREAT
AGENCIES
STEINWAY,
. BRINS MEAD,
FEURICH.
Nicholson $ Co. Limited
342 George St., Sydney. Brisbane, Toowoomba, Warwick
'VAC MAR
K
f
Sheep-branding Fluid
that lasfs from shearing
to shearing.
Yef comes ouf completely
in fhe scouring of Itie woof
DOES HOT MAT THE FLEECE
Vacuum Oil Company Proply. Ltd.
Throughout* the Commonwealth
k and New Zealand. L
\
*
SEASONABLE SHIRTWEAR
AT FARMER’S.
EVERY man knows the difference between the Shirt cut by an expert and the one
that isn’t. Farmer's Shirts are cut by experts, and fit as a Shirt should fit.
The neckbands are accurate in size ; the sleeves are just the right length.
They are all that can be desired in style and fabric, and obtainable in a large
variety of patterns. Our prices are as low as they reasonably can be, quality of
material and workmanship considered. We quote instances : —•
Viyella Flannel Shirts
In a large assortment in Fancy Stripes
and Checks, Gauntlet Cuffs, Linen
Bands. Double Collar to match each
Shirt; all sizes. Price 12/6.
Crimean Shirts
Crimean Shirts
Medium weight, warm and strong,
Fancy Stripes, extra good quality, and
will give plenty of hard wear ; Linen
Bands, Rifle Cuffs, also collar and
pockets if desired.
Prices 10/6 and 12/6 each.
Wool and Cotton Mixture, all sizes.
With Sateen Bands, Price 5/- each.
With Collar and Pockets, Price 5/6
each.
Tunic Shirts
In the Newest Colorings (as illus-
tration). Prices 4/6, 5/6, 6/6, 7/6
and 8/6 each.
FARMER & COMPANY
...LIMITED... SYDNEY.
m
i
*
Alcock Billiard
Tables excel.
Consult any competent judge of billiard tables, and lie’ll
promptly tell you that there are no tables equal to “ Alcock s.”
Many of the leading billiard matches have been played on
these tables—the Melbourne match between George Gray
and Fred Lindrum, jun., when Gray scored 836, 831 coming
off the red, is another proof of the marvellous accuracy and
perfect construction of our billiard tables..,
Each table is fitted with Imperial Low Cushions’, and
bears our trade mark.
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.
ALCOCK & CO. Pty. Ltd.
\ * * ' ' ■ - ■ » - -
Billiard Table Manufacturers,
397 George St., Sydney. 114 Edward St., Brisbane. Baker Buildings,
Featherstone St., Wellington. 155 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
7 King William St„ Adelaide. Murray St., Perth.
[5


HAIR PRESERVED
AND BEAUTIFIED
BY USING
Rowland’s
MACASSAR OIL.
It prevents baldness, eradicates scurf, is the best
d ■essino' for ladies’ hair and for Children it is mva»u-
able. Also in a Golden Colour for fair hair. 9
Sizes 3 s. 6d., 7S-, i°s. 6d. Sold by Stores
Chemists, & A. Rowland & Sons, Hatton Garden,
London.
British and Colonial
Aeroplane Company Ltd.,
BUILDERS OF THE
Bristol BIPLANES
as used throughout Australia by
MR. J. J. HAMMOND,
and also by other World-Renowned Aviators.
Sole Agents for Great Britain and Colonies for
th ' GNOME Engines.
The British Government has Ordered Four Bristol
Biplanes.
The Russian Government has Ordered Eight
Bristol Biplanes.
For Exhibitions and Particulars apply
SYDNEY E. SMITH, Manager,
c/o Union Bank, Sydney.
REGULARITY OF THE BOWELS.
The First Line of Defence Against 11l-
Health.
Constipation is the root of nine-tenths of the
sickness of man and a large proportion of the
sickness of women. It’s a simple tiling of itself,
but, like many simple things, it may grow and
become complicated.
When the bowels are clogged the waste mattei
decays and ferments and enters the blood, and is
carried to all parts of the body, producing head-
aches, bilious-
ness, sleepless-
ness, heartburn,
loss of appetite,
indigestion, neu-
ralgia, rheuma-
tism and various
other ailments
disturbing tl e
heart and nei-
vo u s system ;
and if con-
tinued is
liable to
cause ii •
flammation
of the bow-
els, liver
and ki d-
nevs.
To main-
t.iin a heal-
thy system
the bowels
should operate at least once every 24 hours. This
is one of Nature’s wise provisions which is too
often ignored, and the result is untold suffering.
Women and children are the greatest offenders,
but why such should be the case is a problem to
be solved. _ .
Nature often requires a little assistance, and if
this assistance is given at the first indication much
distress and suffering may be averted. Motheis,
especially, should guard the health of the r
children, and inculcate regular habits from
infancy.
As a family remedy for costiveness, Dr. Morse s
Indian Root Pills have a wide reputation. They
are mild in their action, causing neither weakness
or sickness, and do not gripe.
To overcome constipation, take from one to four
pills regularly until the bowels move daily, and
are restored to healthy action.*
Missing Friends.
ITTTLLIAMS. —The Widow, Children, or Legal Personal
W Representatives of ALFRED EDWARD WILLIAMS,
who died 4th December, 1882, at Nelson, New Zealand,
are reauested to communicate with
Messrs. J. & W. H. DRUITT.
Borough Chambers, Bournemouth, England.
I
F DAVID ROSS and KATE ROSS, late of Berrimal
(children of WILLIAM ROSS, late of Swan Hill,
Victoria farmer, deceased), will communicate with THE
TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS AND AGENCY COMPANY,
LTD. of 412 Collins Street, Melbourne, they will hear of
something to their advantage. /
LM€R
E. RESCH. Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Austrian Agents—RlCH ARE) HOLMES * CB. f PERTH, KALG.OOSUE and COOLGAROJ&
Brewery and Offices :
Dowling Street, REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
The A.J.C. meeting at Randwick was
suiced with infinite variety as regards weather.
Saturday was an ideal day; Monday was a cross
between a cow and a deluge. Rain came in -meets
and drifted in waves across the course and the
"•rounds; but, in spite of it, over 20,000 people
tripped out to Randwick in damp tram-cars, and
stood in the pelting rain to watch mud-covered horses
and jockeys pass in a series of processions. And
they called it sport! Saturday was a day of gor-
geous dresses, Monday was a day of macintoshes
and sodden umbrellas; but when the grand dames
got into the shelter of the grand-stands, they un-
buttoned the macintoshes, removed the ponchos, laid
the waterproof rugs aside, and showed a certain
amount of damp finery. The public was said to have
held its own on Saturday—which is matter on which
much doubt exists —but the rain on Monday was a
golden rain for the ringmen, and they, at were
happy. It was a day when the ordinary conditions
count for nothing; a day on which the race was to
the strong anil not to the fleet. Brute strength and
ability to send a shower of mud flying througli the
air while travelling at a fair pace was the thing
that counted on the awful Easter Monday. And that
was a quality as to which the public had no informa-
tion. In some parts of Mtioriland, where the rain
rainetli every day, the backer knows how various
steeds perform under various conditions. In sun-
kissed Sydney, no one, barring a trainer, knows
what a horse can do with heavy going; so the fool-
public, which could not resist the temptation to bet,
was left floundering in the mud, trying to find out
exactly where in the slush-covered procession the
horses were that carried its coin.
The first race of interest was the Autumn
Stakes on Saturday. Some of the salt of horsedom
stripped for this event, including those nags of high
degree—Trafalgar, Flavian and' Comedy King, Lady
Medallist and Eric, Patronatus and Lord' Foote.
Kric had established a hold on the popular fancy
by his win from Adagio at the Hawkesbury Autumn
Handicap the week before; but that was discounten-
anced by the fact that he was not then up • against
anything like the quality he had to meet in the
A.J.C. event. So the public wiped him off the list,
and he went out at about 25 to one against. “Comedy
King, Comedy King, Comedy King!” howled the
public, seething round the peneillers, who blandly re-
marked five to four ON. “What about Trafalgar?”
“Five to two against.” “Right; mine’s Trafalgar!”
As for the Maoriland flier, Lady Medallist, Patrick
Noses was so sure of her inability to set Randwick
on fire, that he opened his heart and let loose at
sevens. For the rest, any old thing ,up to 25 to one
against. Comedy King and Lord Foote got away
first,. and then with a rush lflce a sand-storm out
West, Lady Medallist went to the front and made a
fearsome pace, leading by four lengths past the li
mile mark. Behind her, held well, in hand, thundered
Comedy King, with Eric, the Hawkesbury winner,
in the offing. It was a pretty race. Lady Medallist
increased the pace and the lead, and Eric and Trafal-
gar ranged up alongside Comedy King. At the home
turn Eric dropped back, and Comedy King and
Trafalgar closed up on the flying mare, and they
turned into the straight bunched together. At the
Leger Stand they were running a neck-and-neck race;
then Comedy King, with plenty of reserve power,
drew easily away. Trafalgar came with a great
rush, but the King beat him off easily, and won by
half a length. ,
Still, the fact that in the minor events a couple
of horses carrying a fair swag of public money man.
aged to lead the others home made the fool-public
believe it had had rather a good day. So when
Monday came a lot of it went out with high hopes
that in the bogged course the worst would be as
good as the best, and anybody had a chance. Which
was true enough; but, all the same, the fact led
to the undoing of the public. The event of the
day was, of course, the Sydney Cup, that gilded
plum on which the A.J.C. laid a coating of £4OOO.
No less than eight-and-twenty went out for this
swag of coin, and on that sodden course any of them
was likely to win. But the public, in spite of
rumors of a bad hoof, planked its coin on The
Parisian, against which a cynical ring laid only
threes. At Eric, the , “’Oxbro’” winner, they
bawled 25’s. And Adagio could get 50’s. John
Moore’s Moorilla they offered 100 to one against, till
somebody came along arid worked a commission,
and then he dropped to 60, like a flash. But it
was only the stable. The public had nothing to
do with it, and the stable wasn’t risking too much
on that impossible day’s conditions. So the brute
went out at anything between 60 and 70 against.
Moorilla came to the front at the turn for home, and
led the way from Eric, with Flavinius, Blue Gem and
Mindful. Into the straight they thundered ; but it
was a one-horse race, for Moorilla was increasing her
load all the time. Byplay, which had been the
last of the leading bunch to enter the straight,
came with a great rush, and left Eric practically
standing still. It was a magnificent finish, but he
had come too late ; and though he cut down the dis-
tance considerably, Moorilla landed at the post with
three lengths to spare, with. Eric eight lengths be-
hind the pursuing Byplay.
An amazing feature of the Doncaster was the fact
that the whole of the final acceptors, 30 in num-
ber, went to the starter. The public had planked
its cash on Bright Laddie and Gold Thread, witn a
fair amount on Nuwara Eliya, at sixes, sevens and
eights. Flavinius, with 9st. 71b. up, started at
20’s against. The race itself was a wild jumble, in
which it was almost impossible to distinguish the
movements of the- various, colors. But at the half-
mile post Lager was in front, closely attended by
Gold Thread, Grist and Bright Laddie, with Miss
Corelli, Sunlike and Broadsword leading the main
field Lager was still ahead at the home turn, but
there Gold Thread and Bright Laddie drew up in an
ominous fashion, with Broadsword hovering horribly
on the horizon. It was not till right at the finish
that Broadsword launched his stroke ; then he flashed
to the front, past the galloping Sunlike and Bright
Laddie, who had both left the struggling Lager right
behind. Flavinius came with a mighty rush, but
Sunlike, opening out, drew level with Broadsword’s
girths as the latter swept over the winning line. A
ftne race to watch, but a disastrous one for the pub
lie For Broadsword had started at 12’s, and everyone
knows how few people there must be on a horse
when Christian Noses slings 12 s at Ins name.
The Sydney Cup was a regular boil-over. Appar-
ently no" one but Mr. Moore, who leases and races
Moorilla, dreamed of putting money on the mare , and,
in the face of her wretched showing in the Leger
on Saturday, few men would have wasted acceptance
money on her. But Mr. Moore did and he has
his reward in the shape of a brilliant win of the
richest race ever run in N. S. Wales. The Publ
that had plunged on The Parisian was bitterly dis-
appointed,ls for the five-year-old was just helpless in
the P mud Moorilla had the race practically won a
good furlong from home, where she ' vl \ a
lengths, and increasing her pace as she led. Moorii
is bv the way, full sister to the Maoriland mare
Lady" Medallist, and is by St. Alwyne from D iP lo " ia >
by Medallion. The race was run in 3mm. 36isec.,
the slowest time since 189 a, when . A. bong s
Patronatus crawled in first in 3min. 3 H se j'
Moorilla and Byplay, which ran second, and Jacamar,
wh?ch won the hirst Nursery Handicap, were all
bred at Messrs. Moses’s Combadello stud farm.
Hugh Denison raked in the LlOOO added money
which goes with the Champagne Stakes, his Posadas
winning from 16 others by two lengths, in Imm.
181 sec. Posadas made a splendid run, and must have
unusual strength. About last at the half-way, lie
I started to struggle through the field, going in pursuit
of each in turn with a succession of wonderful
spurts, and passing them all one by one, till, at the
straight, Wilari, the last in front, was overtaken
and feft behind. Posadas started at 16 s, and Bor-
rowsov and Respect carried the public cash Borrow-
sov did, indeed, finish third, but Respect was no-
where. # *
Next Saturday will answer the question
whether Sydney Kemp is a dark horse or merely a
good advertiser, as on that date he meets Harry
Feared, champion sculler of Australia, on the old
Parramatta. Sydney is the son of an ex-champion
of the world, and has been brought up to the sport
from his cradle by one of the best trainers living,
so between hereditary' instinct, special training and
a few other advantages, he should be something
extra-special. But the Pearce followers do not ap-
pear to be worrying, and seem to consider that the
£lOO stake is as good as in Pearces pocket. Ihe
gate is to be divided equally. The pity of it is
that the Parramatta course does not yield much
gate; it provides practically a free show except tor
the comparatively small crowd that patronises the
official steamers following the race. The men who
provide the fun get nothing from the crowds that
swarm the banks.
There is nine years’ difference in the ages
of the two scullers, Pearce being 31 and Kemp 22.
The younger man weighs only list. 71b. to Pearce s
12st. 91b., giving Pearce , the advantage of Ist. 21b.
Pearce has had a somewhat distinguished career in
the racing shell. After being beaten by Barry, the
English champion, he turned the tables on his victor.
He was quite a youth when he accomplished that
feat, however. Among the men he has beaten are
Thoroughgood, “Wanganui” Webb, Mitchell and Day,
the last twice. He also defeated Hagney; but no one
attaches much importance to that. His walloping of
Webb, Barry, and Haekett (of Canada), are, how-
ever, important. His defeats were at the sculls of
Dick Tressider and Arnst, alias Dick; and, there is
a widespread belief that his only superior is the
present champion of the world. Kemp, on the other
hand, has done practically nothing. Certainly he
has mopped up a lot of good things in country handi-
caps of late, and has been side-stepped by some of
the second rank; but a man may be side-stepped
for other reasons than fear. On the other hand, it
has to be admitted that he has improved out of
sight during the past year. If he should overthrow
Pearce he will}' immediately call upon Dick the
Champion to defend his title.
N.S;W. Rowing AssoriTrtton donned its
hob-nailed boots last week, and kicked the Maoriland
Association very hard, indeed,-by...deciding that C.
R. Stone, the amateur champion, .of Maoriland and
accredited representative of the Dominion, shall not
compete. It seems some' six Of seven years!, ago
Stone competed in some footrace or hop-stepj-and-
jump contest at a coufitry show for money. * The
Maoriland Association smote him, but on investiga-
tion decided to lift the ban and apply the white-
wash brush. But the: -N.S.W. Ass. looks liatd at
whitewash, and remarks aSjpldly that the true lily
doesn’t want any paint.-'Jaw-Stone is Mud.
>; -k ,'-v’ . »- ' *
The selectors of the Rugby League in
Sydney are in for a bad time. They are in the same
predicament as the flirt who received from every one
of her 16 lovers and admirers a- dress to be wofn at
the same ball. They have overmuch to choose from.
There was an excess of good material last season, but
the fearsome stampede from the Union ranks has in-
tensified the trouble this season, and there is bound
to be riot and language anyhow they choose. The
old hands consider that they should have a prefer-
ence, and the new ones “trust a bloke will get a
fair deal.” And between those two there is room
for >infinite trouble. The League’s competition opens
on April 28. The troubles of the selectors-are further
increased by the advent of a number of brawny
Maori Sanders, all desirable young men who ate not
backward in pushing their claims forward. Apd the
rush for inclusion in the English-going team is going
to be stupendous.
* * * ■*
The Rugby Union, on the other hand, is
so weakened that it has had to make sweeping geo-
graphical changes, and enlarge the districts enorm-
ously. Sydney District has been wiped out and
annexed to Eastern Suburbs. South Sydney District
remains the same, but the club is said to have almost
disappeared. Western Suburbs.;, has,, been extended
right up to Richmond and Windsor,' and now takes
in the . Hawkesbury Agricultural College. Balmain
has been stretched out miles and miles, and prac-
tically runs up the Parramatta River till it reaches
Ryde and the Western Suburbs boundary. St.
George, which includes the Illawarra line suburbs,
for a time seriously proposed to amalgamate with
Newtown; but Newtown, being a working man s
suburb, felt it required no assistance from the out-
side and preferred to hold on to its own. So St.
George has to do the best it can. Those extensions
of territory will probably produce enough players
to make a decent showing, so it looks as though the
Union will last at least one year longer.
The Union’s troubles were increased somewhat by
the adoption of the “amateur definition,” which was
practically forced on it by the other amateur bodies.
Hitherto the Union allowed men who were profes-
sionals in other branches of sport to play as football
amateurs; but when the Union adopted the defini-
tion ” that chance of roping in professional athletes,
who could be relied upon to be in good fettle, van-
ished. All pros, were allowed up to January of this
vear to make up their minds whether they would
throw up the pro. side of their business or turn lily-
white Most of ’em decided to stay black as ever ;
so the men who will play in the Union competitions
will be all amateurs —lily-white through and through
and cricket is the only sport in which amateurs
and professionals will meet on an equal footing.
How tight a place the Union is in is revealed by
the proposal to abolish “Country Week, the channel
through which the metropolis used to draw to itself
and the chance of glory the promising young country
plavers It is now proposed that the l mon s selec-
tors should visit the country districts and watch the
games on the local grounds and make their selections
accordingly. If will be most unfortunate if “Country-
Week” is abolished; it was a circumstance much
looked forward to by the outside Rugbyites.
* * * *
The South Aus. Football League lias been
resting on the fence. Half of it wants to renew its
present inter-State match arrangement with the Vic.
Association. The other half says it ought to play
Vic. League or nobody. Just at present it is taking
a legal opinion as to whether, being a member of
the Australian Football Council, it can properly
deal with the Ass., which is an outsider. Meanwhile,
it has knocked out the local Baseball' League by re-
fusing leave to the American-game players to have
a match on each big oval during the hour before
football begins. The reason alleged is injury to the
turf —which sounds like an excuse rather than a
reason. Also, an “Amateur Football League” has
been formed. The game in S.A., under a strictly-
enforced District system, is' pretty nearly pure, so
there is no striking need for the new body. But the
League consistently refuses to admit the University
—as not being a District —in spite of precedents in
Melbourne and Sydney and local precedents in
lacrosse and cricket; and this Amateur business is
the ’Varsity’s way of hitting back,
■Hammond, the aviator, is in Sydney, and
at time of writing is preparing to soar. So
far Sydney has had but little aviation.
Houdini certainly made some flights; but no
one seemed to take him very seriously, though
Heaven knows why. Only the bravest of the
brave would have ventured aloft in the terrible
aeroplane he had—one of the crankiest of the
crankiest Wright type. And the fact that he kept
out of Heaven while soaring on the thing is all the
more credit to his skill —or luck. But if Sydney
has been neglected in this line in the past, the future
prospects are fairly bright. Some Yankee fliers are
roaming round the world, and at present are under-
stood to be in Japan, astonishing the little brown
men, and •in due time, if they survive, they will
arrive here, and show us things. But what all good
Australians are looking forward to is the day when
our own fliers, men who will be available for scout-
ing purposes in the defence scheme, will take, to the
air and ride upon the morning calm. #
The advent of Anthony Hordern’s hydro-
plane Kangaroo marks the beginning of a new
era in motor-boating in Sydney. The graceful Fair-
banks liad no chance against the new flier, even
had the propeller not been twisted and battered
on the rocks off Shark Island. Mr. Hordern’s boat
took a little time to get properly going, but when
it got, how did it get! Fairbanks started with a
bound, and all in a flash was 250 yards in front.
Then the hydroplane rose; and, although Fairbanks
was doing 23 miles an hour, the hydroplane shot
past it as though the cedar boat had been standing
still. Kangaroo is listed as a 33-knot craft, and
must have been doing that speed easily when it
passed Fairbanks. But further down the harbor,
against rougher water, the speed was reduced, and
the average for the whole run was 27 miles an hour.
Said that Arthur Davies had not been in his boat
for 12 months till he stepped on board to measure
himself with Kangaroo. Fancy a man having a
glorious boat like that, and going out only once in
12 months! It’s immoral, or blasphemous, or
something. Kangaroo’s next appearance under rac-
ing conditions will probably be on the 29th, when
the 30-foot championship of the club will be con-
tested ; and it will be worth while going a long way
to see this stumpy craft rushing over the water as
fast as an average railway train.
Some English naval officers recently left
their ships off Bassorah, on the Persian Gulf, and
made a motor-boat trip up the Sbat-el-Arab to the
confluence of the Euphrates and Tigris. There the
boats parted, two going up the Tigris, and the other
ascending the Euphrates. Both parties were as-
tonished to find that the'sight of their boats slither-
ing along without sails or oars aroused no wonder-
ment among the natives. It was explained when
the two launches arrived at Bagdad, and the local
club turned out and gave them a hearty welcome.
The clubmen were all Turks and Arabs, and handled
their launches well. The only white men afloat
were a pair of Germans, but the bulk of the motors
were of English and Yankee make. The launch
which ascended the Euphrates had a more adven-
turous run, and got aground several times. The
object was to reach and explore the ruins of Baby-
lon ; but so many interesting places and so much
good shooting were met on the way that time ran
out long before Hilleh was reached, and the party
had to return. #
In Sydney last week, the Tasmanian
bowlers were smitten hip and thigh. N.S.W. first
defeated them by 98 to 83, 114 to 73, and 103 to
77; then Bananaland joined in the trouble, and wiped
them out to the tune of 113 to 77, 131 to 66, a.nd
96 to 82. The last was their best effort in the
series of half a dozen matches. However, the Fly-
speck band left fully satisfied that the - wiping-out
was justified on form, and jbubbling over with ad-
miration for the green swards of Sydney. *
Australia’s fine left-handed cricketer, W.
J. Whitty, had his appendix docked at Albion Park
(N.S.W!) last week. The docking, this paper is
glad to hear, was successful. Frank Laver also
underwent the same ordeal a while back, and doesn t
seem any the worse for the loss. And The Bulletin
is grieved that Edmund Fisher, the Ancient In-
habitant of its Melbourne office, lias had to leave oil
writing sporting and dramatic paragraphs ioi a
while, and go into hospital to be cured of the same
’ids. ; *
The Commonwealth junior cadet team
left the rest of the Empire out of sight in the
struggle for the Meath rifle-shooting trophy, with a
score of 1266. England, certainly, was close up
with 1259 ; but the others were nowhere. E. Price,
a South Melbourne youth, who captained the side,
also gathered in the trophy, for the highest points
throughout the competition; and Australia, there-
fore, takes all the glory surrounding tlie contes-
Maoriland’s figurehead, Islington, is some-
thing extra at tennis, and has been winning games
in Wellington with that well-known crack player,
Miss Nunnelly, as a partner.
If Clarence Weber was merely out for ad-
vertisement in his challenge to Jack Johnson, he ha*
struck a snag, for “Showy” Baker, of Sydney, has
offered to take Massa Johnson’s place and meet the
Melbourne Adonis in an all-in scrap, gouging and
biting only barred. It would be a wildly exciting
contest; and as both men are gentlemen and thorough
sportsmen, it would be carried out with as little
brutality as such an event could be. In fact, it is
safe to say that, with these two as principals, there
would be as little fear of anything as there
would be with any two athletes in the world. But,
all the same, there is not much chance of the thing
coming off. The mere fact that in the interest of
fair play Baker would have to be allowed to wear
skin gloves only, means that’ the police would pro-
hibit it. So, if it is only an ad., Weber is on fairly
safe ground.
* * * *
“Boshter Bill" is a champion once more..
He recently took a first prize with some sort of
wheat grown on his farm on the Peel River. He has
evidently turned his boxing glove to a plough-share
to some purpose.
Young J. G. Walsh put up a glittering
marksmanship record at Peak Hill (N.S.W.) last
week, when he scored 31 consecutive bulls -eyes at
600 yards, in semi-darkness. This phenomenon is
only 19 years of age, and for that reason should be
a fair-sized beam in the eyes of other riflemen for
quite a long while yet.
Fight followers are interested in the pro-
gress of one W. Sonter, a Northern Rivers (N.S.W.)
20-year-old pug, who has wiped the floor with 20
opponents in 12 months. Sonter is now coming to
Sydney to try his glove among the bigger fry, and
there are some who regard him as “the Hope. He
is a mighty hitter, and at Inverell he biffed someone
into unconsciousness for a whole five hours.
* * * * '
“Snell”: I see that Clarence Weber has
chosen Mike Williams as his opponent in a grand
public contest between wrestler and boxer, '-fai-
ence’s advertised yearning was to demonstrate which
of the two popular forms of athletics is the bet-
ter for purposes of self-defence. A vital struggle
between himself and Michael Williams,- Esq., wm
prove nothing except that Mike is an elderly, heav.i -
footed, slow-going, fourth-rate boxer ; and those facts
were already as obvious as a red brewery. Webei
is the best thing in “rasslers” that we have in
the Commonwealth, and for a fair-dinkum try-out
between the catch-as-cats-can man and the exponent
of plug it would be necessary to fit him- with a
better heavy-weight boxer than we have in Australia
to-day, whereas Williams is many removes from our
available best. If Clarence downs Michael, the
contest will serve no purpose but to shattei the
foolish opinions of those few who believe that a
rather slow, old, unscientific boxer, hampered with
Marquis rules, is good enough for a very clever,
quick, strong young wrestler, allowed all the devilish
inventions of jiu-jitsu.
* * 1*
Jack Johnson, who was in the jug for
motor-hogging, was released at sunrise on Easter
Sunday, and was in a skate of feverish delight
thereat. He didn’t like the- jug. Although he is
champion bruiser he is a diplomat and knows how
to manage the opposite sex. The fust tiling he
exclaimed was that the only fly in his ointment was
that he would not be able to get to his mothers in
time to eat some of her buns and pumpkin pie. A
man who can write like that froni behind a prison
wall is bound to be popular with the negresses.
p.g,—On second thoughts Johnson isn t a diplomat.
This yarn was sent to his mother, and not to his
wife, and no doubt by this time he has discovered
that the publication of that letter to his mother
is regarded as an unfriendly action, and a slur on
his wife’s cooking. A man’s first flattery is due
to his wife.)


THE
s«se
STYLE 1516
BOGO
LAST
DANGO
PATENT
MADE IN
AUSTRALIA
Other Manufacturers can duplicate the PRICES
but not the VALUES.
WE STAND BACK OF EVERY PAIR WE MAKE.
MARSHALL SHOE CO., RICHMOND,
"KEEP THE QUALITY UP."
MELBOURNE. SYDNEY. ADELAIDE.
VIC.
BRISBANE.
THE WIN OF ANOTHER “B. 8 B.”
Mr. J, Hines, mounted on a No. 1 “ B. & B.” cycle, won the 7-mile race held
on the Troy Course, at Dubbo, Wednesday afternoon, March 22.
It was a most interesting event, there being- 29 starters, but Mr. Hines won
easily and fairly. With such a machine as our No. 1, Price £lB, one (tan always
put forth his best effort, knowing- that the machine will readily respond.
If you want to ride a cycle which will give you no troublp, just, invest your money in a
“B. & B.” Model. We have other cycles not so expensive as this one. Write for details.
BENNETT & BARKELL, Ltd • « Largest Cycle Building House in the State,
234 PITT STREET, and CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
£5
i
{9XI Antarctic .Expedition.
To supply the power tor his -motor sledge*,
with which he hopes to reach the South Pole
CAPTAIN R. F. SCOTT, R.N.,
CHOSE
“SHELL”
MOTOR SPIRIT.
Why?
Because he took it to the snows of Norway end actually
tried it oi» his snow sledges before he would trus»
himself to use it In the unknown Arctic Regions^
Its perfect purity—
that’s the point ! J
GUARANTEED 2 YEARS.
20-50-h.p. Chalmers
£490
s=Seater
Touring Car.
40-hp THOMAS,
6=Cylinder 7-Seater.
ROY W. SAND FORD,
181 ELIZABETH STREET, SyDNEY.
Also at 105 EXHIBITION STREET, MELBOURNE.
Confomat” Hard Hat
“ THE ACME OF COMFORT.”
THE highest grade HARO HAT, hand-made in a
special way from the- choicest materials ; con-
forms to the head, making it most comfort-
able and easy-fitting even when new, and fits any
shaped head. Exceptional!v light, very durable,
and guaranteed absolutely FAST DYED.
Price 13/6.
In all the Newest Season’s Styles. Stocked by
Leading Retailers throughout Australia. Try one.
Insist upon having the genuine best with the
Trade Mark “ Confomat ” stamped on the leather.
If unobtainable in your district, write us direct.
The Austral Hat Mills* Ltd.,
Abbotsford, Melbourne. j
Make
your
own
Cigarette
twice ]
osgooey
CIGARETTE
PAPER
BB.ST at\A VBBBST
IF NOT PROCURABLE AT YOUR
TOBACCONIST APPLY TO THE AGENTS
Jacobs Bros.,lff 255? George Sj.Sydhey
JUST OUT.
Price. 12/6 Posted, 13/-
DROVERS’ GUIDE
By P. R. GORDON,
Late Chief Inspector of Stock ana Brands, Queensland
Containing the latest Stock Route Maps of New South
Wales and Queensland, the new Queensland Maps
containing Stock Routes, Tanks and Dams, Main Roads,
Border Crossing Places, Bores, Trucking Yards, etc.
WATSON, FERGUSON & Co, Ltd. BRISBANE
OLD
ORXNfy-
SCO^
OLD ORKNEY
Real Liqueur Whisky
*9*
A
*-r; r {
~ t
AGENTS:
SYDNEY-Tooiteys, Ltd.'
MELBOURNE—T.R. Jones & Co.
BRISBANE—EIIiott, Donaldson
& Douglas, Ltd.
ADELAIDE—Lord & Heseltine. «
HOBART—John Ferguson & Co.*i
LAUNGESTON —Jonn McKenzie & Co.
THE WHISKY
FOR THE HOME
IN THE MAKING
Of the Rigney Shoes no limits are placed on the efforts of
the workmen, the originality of the designers, or the quality
of the materials.
?n Rigney Shoes you get perfection of fit, style, work-
manship and finish.
The Shoe Illustrated is a Choice Tan Willow Calf Oxford
Shoe, smart shape, very serviceable. Price, 18/6- Postage
9d. extra.
SEND FOR A COPY OF OUR NEW CATALOGUE.
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.,
“The Men’s Exclusive High-Grade Shoe Stores,”
305 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
and 179 a PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Please note that, our new’shop in Pitt Street is under the
personal management of Mr. F. C. Rigney, the sole and
only proprietor of the above firm.
LIQUEUR.
BENEDICTINE
In every point
which affects the real pro-
ductive value, the machine
tools that we stock have
distinct and positive advan-
tages. They efhbody every
rai/improvement that adds
to the machine’s efficiency.
We have Lathes, Drilling,
Planing, Shaping, Milling,
Slotting, Grinding, and
Punching and Shearing
Machines.
Catalogues M 3 & M 4 Sent Post Free.
Thomas
McPherson & Son,
Modern Machine Tools,
582-588 Collins St.,
MELBOURNE.
£HEAP, Second-Hand 15BreakH.P.
TANGYE GAS ENGINE,
IN GQOD ORDER.
Apply Manager, “ BULLETIN ” OFFICE,
214 George Street, Sydney.
PEBECO
does far lpore than ensure
whiteness of the teeth. It
r counteracts the acid secretions
of the mouth, in which flourish the
bacterial ravages of the teeth.
As a breath purifier Pebeco is
invaluable. Night and morning
use of it will repay a hundredfold
in improved appearance, economy
in dental expense and betterhealth.
PEBECO
Tooth Paste.
Of all Chemists, etc.
Sole Agent—
GArnnld 8 O’ 8 ®""* 11 **•> Sydney
• (Wholesale only).
Prompt Relief
ft fr°m Rheumatism
LUMBAGO, SPRAINS,
AND ALL ACHES AND PAINS
Assured by Applying
S T JACOBS


EXCLUSIVE
DESIGNS.
CHARMING
Conceptions
A. oAL_,^ERS.
9ct Gold BRACELET, Set Pearls, Amethyst, or Topaz,
o*
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold 2-Bar SCROLL BROOCH, Red
Stone and l’earls, £, 2.
A. SAUNDERS.
JBct Gold, eet 8
Diamonds, and
Rubv, Sapphire, or
Black Opals, £ 10
A. SAu.xUKRS.
9ct Gold, 3-stone
Cross-over
RING, set Pure
Double-cut Dia-
monds, £lO
A. SAUKDEKS.
18ct Gold, Double
Row, Half-hoop,
get 6 Diamonds and
6 Rubies, Sap-
phires, or Olivines,
£6/10/.
A. & A ORDERS.
9ct Gold BAND
RINGS, set Red,
Green, or Blue
Stones, 20/.
A.. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, set Dia-
monds, Rubies, or
Sapphires, £ !>■
Larger Diamonds,
£3/10/.
A. SAUiS DERS.
18ct Gold, Dia-
mond Cluster,
.£7/1.0/. ■
Larger Diamonds,
£lO.
A. SAUNDERS.
luct CRESCENT and STAR BROOCH,
Fine Pure White Double-out Diamonds
and Rubies or Sapphires, £IQ.
A. SAUNDERS,
loot Gold “Lily of the Valley”
BROOCH, Fine White Pearls,
SPRAY
£4.
SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold LINKS, 1 7/6
15ct Gold LINKS, 35/-
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold PENDANT,
set Fine White Pearls
and Peridot or Tour-
malines, £3/15/*
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct Gold Fancy Basket Pattern BRACELET, Stron
Safety Chain attached,
A. SAUAUERS.
9ct Gold 2-Bar BROOCH, Diamond and
Rubies or Sapphires, 25/-
;i V A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold EXPANDING WATCH BRACELET, Lever
Movements, Full Jewelled, Accurate, Reliable,
£ 6/10/c
Extra Jewelled Movement, £7/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold BROOCH, Fine Pure White
Double-cut Diamonds, £lO
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold CIRCLE
BROOCH, set with
Pearls, 312/6-
Gold EMU
CHARM.
Gold
Knob Chain
and Metal
Pin, 5/<».
With Gold
Pin, 7/6.
SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold
PIN and
STUD,
Pearl and
Diamond,
as/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold CHARM,
sot Pearls and Red
or Blue Stones,
17/6-
Larger, 22/6.
25/-
30/-
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Solid Silver Hunting
Keyless WATCH, J-nlate. full
jewelled, Patent Adjusted
Balance, 25/- Extra Jewelled
Movement, 30/. Guaranteed
One Year’s Free Repair.
20 /•
20/-
A. SOUNDERS.
Gent.’s Nickel Open-Face Keyless WATCH,
Full Jewelled, Patent Adjusted Balance,
Non-magnetic, Dust and Water Proof Oases,
30 h,
Guaranteed 1 Year’s Free Repairs.
\
' .<*■”
OUR
OPTICAL WORK
IS THE
FINEST IN
THE WORLD.
CATALOGUES
OF EACH
DEPARTMENT
SENT,
POST FREE,
Solid Gold Fine Pure White ? earls
and Diamond-cut Tourmalines or Peridots,
£ 7 /l Oi*.
With Diamonds, £lo-
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold EAR-
RINGS, Set with
Tourmalines,
£2.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold SAFETY PIN, with Patent
Non-breakable Joint, (>/6-
Larger, 8/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver SOVEREIGN
PURSE, 12/6-
Smaller, 8/6, 10/.
50/-
50/-
Gent.’s Patent Gold-cased Hunting Keyless
Waltham WATCH, Full Jewelled, Com-
pensation Balance, £2/10A
With Extra Jewelled Movement, £3.
Guaranteed 2 years free repairs.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold EARRINGS,
set Pearls and
Garnet, 12 Id-
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold Engraved
TIE-CLIP, 10,6-
Plain, 10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver MATCH-
BOX, a Neat Design,
5/6
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold SPRAY and CLUSTER
BROOCH, £2/5/-
9ct Held
HAT PIN,
16/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold,
Pearls and
Diamonds,
30/
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct Gold COMPASS,
PENDANT, 12/6-
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold CIRCLE BROOCII,
set Pearls and Turquoise,
2r,/.
■'l, i/fl,
ess®
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct Gold 2-Bar BROOCH, Amethyst Centre,
20/
. 15ct Gold, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold 2-Bar BROOCH, Diamond,
Red or Blue Stones, 20A
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold LINKS, 20/-
15ot Gold, 40/-
Initials Engraved f ree.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold PENDANT,
set Pearls and Tur-
• quoise, £2-
15ct Gold, £3/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold TRACE MUFF CHAIN, £4/10/, £5/1.0/
A. SAUNDERS.
A. SAUiNDRKS.
‘--8
15ct Gold BROOCH, set Pearls and Tourma-
line or Peridot, £2-
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct Gold Half-round Half-chased Bamboo BRACELET,
Strong Safety Chain attached, £2/10/-
Heavier, £3.
8k
m
A. SAUNDERS.
get Gold BRACELET, set Diamonds and Rubies
Sappnires, 2/ 1 Tii-
. a. SAU'KUnij.a.
9ct Gold 3-Bur SCROLL BUCKLE BROOC H,
liO/-
on
A. Sj\UNDERS.
18rt, Half-hoop, Pure
Diamonds and Opals,
, £R.
I A. SAUNDERS.
[lBct Gold, ft Pure
Double-cut Diamonds,
I Rubies, or Sapphires;
£3/5/.
A. SAUM)EKS.
18ct Gold, Diamonds
and Rubies or Sap-
phires, CLUSTER;
RING, £1.2/10/1
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold, Claw-set
RING, Garnet, Ame :
thyst, or Garnet,
25/.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, set Dia-
monds and Ruby or
Sapphire. 30/.
A. Ss.au iNDriKS.
“Set. Gold,
set Diamonds, Rubies,
or Sapphires,
Half-Hoop Ring,
£ 5-
JEWELLER,
M&tiClOCt
k MAKER A
Vff
SYDNEY'S LEADING JEWELLER.
807.809.811.815.815.817. GEORGE ST. [Opposite Railway Station) SYDNEY. N.S.W.
SILVERSMITH
t OfISULT//VcJ
J


EVERY intelligent person knows that the Kodak
is the best of all Cameras of its class. It is the
embodiment of superiority in construction, in
ease of manipulation, in lightness and compactness,
and in certainty of resu ts. It is operated in daylight
from start to finish.
When you are buying you must be very careful,
or you may be misled or persuaded into accepting
some instrument other than a genuine Kodak. For
your protection, you should ask for the Kodak
Camera by name, and LOOK FOR THE WORD
“ EASTMAN " on the instrument you purchase.
There are Brownie-Kodaks from 5/« to 50/- ♦
regular Kodaks range from 26/- upwards. The
Kodak Catalogue will be sent free upon request if you
cannot call.
If it isn’t an Eastman
it isn’t a Kodak! ” •
The No. 1 Folding Pocket
Kodak Camera 42/-
If you want to get good results you should
use this famous Camera. You’ll tind the
No. r Folding Pocket Kodak absolutely
reliable. It has the new model Pocket
Automatic Shutter and Reversible Brilliant
Finder, and is wonderfully compact. Takes
pictures x and has a capacity
of 6 or 12 exposures without re-loading. The
Lens is a 4)4 in. focus Meniscus, _ _
and the Price only. . . . £2 2S.
The No. 3 Folding Pocket
Kodak Camera,£3/12/6
The No. 3 Folding Pocket Kodak takes
splendid pictures, measuring 3Xin. x
4 X in - —the popular quarter-plate size—and
has a capacity of 6or 12 exposures without
re-loading. It is fitted with a Rapid Recti-
linear Lens of good quality, a F. P.K. Auto-
matic Shutter, brilliant reversible View
Finder, two Tripod Sockets, and an Auto-
matic Focussing Lock. The total weight
is only 2302., and the _ _
Price .... £3 12S. 6cfl.
The No. 3a Folding Pocket
Kodak Camera, £.4/101-
The No. 3a Folding Pocket Kodak is the
most popular of all cameras ; takes the full-
size postcard picture, 3Xin. X s}4in. Pro-
vided with every feature for the most serious
work, yet so simple as to be effectively
handled by a novice. Equipment includes
double rapid rectilinear lens. Kodak auto-
matic shutter, automatic focussing lock,
brilliant reversible finder and tripod
sockets. Price ....
Postage extra, Is. 3d. £4 10s.
KODAK (Australasia) LTD.,
379 George St., Sydney. “The Block,” 284 Collins St., Melbourne.
Incorporating: Baker
& Rouse Prop. Ltd.,
37 Rundle St., Adelaide.
78-80 Queen St., Brisbane. Ruthven St., Toowoomba. Flinders St., Townsville.
346 Argent St., Broken Hill. 6 Mercer St., Wellington, N.Z.
r
mc
mmk
t
mmmm
eL
[agio
! r:
■Vjr f J-<~
E*.
W T
TSTERY
I And
llßTft I
BS
1
Wl
YOU all know the “ man who does the
tricks”.at the party— don’t you?
Makes everybody laugh, puzzles and tricks
them, arid they can’t tell how he does it.
YOU can be as clever and funny as he by'
the use of our Tricks, Novelties and Magic Surprises. Very simple if you follow the instructions with each
Write for Free Catalogue of Makers
of Mirth and Uystery.
The Wonderful Gyroscope and
Mono=rail Top.
The Wonderful Plate-Lifter.
Will make your friends’ plates and cups dance quite
unexpectedly as they sit at meals. No
one can see the cause ; works quite im-
perceptibly from the other end of the
table. Shrieks of laughter. 1/- post free.
Perfect demonstration of the railroad of
the future. This marvellous top defies
the laws of gravity and equilibrium.
Spins in any position—on top of finger,
end of nose, edge of tumbler, etc. Baffles
Science, delights children, astounds
adults. The more you spin it, the more
it will puzzle you.
Post Free 1/3, or Larger Size, 2/3.
Chinese Ring Bar Puzzle.
Endless amusement. The idea is to
remove the handle from the rings. Looks
so simple, yet puzzles them all till they
know how. Well made of solid polished
brass. Fits vest pocket. Write for it
to-day, enclosing stamps for amount.
1/- Post Free.
The Wizard Fortune-
Telling Cardi.
Endless interest. Lends
a new charm to pre-
dicting fortune. Sim-
ple to use.
1/9 Post Free.
Wondrous Disappearing
Handkerchief Trick.
This handkerchief makes anything
disappear. Very effective.
1/3 Post Free.
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
(H. L. HUTCHINSON, LTD.)
710 GEORGE STREET,
111 KING STREET,
25-27 OXFORD STREET,
SYDNEY.
The Bulletin Post Cards.
FORWARDED POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS. Packet of TWELVE, 6d. Packet of TEN, Sd
OOK FOR THERED
WINCHESTER
RIFLE AND PISTOL CARTRIDGES
On account of being manufacturers of fire-
arms as well, the AA/inchester company
are peculiarly able to know the best re-
quirements for ammunition. This partially
answers the question often asked: “Why
do Winchester cartridges excel?” The
rest of the answer is contained in their
large, modern plant and their extensive
knowledge of the firearms and ammuni-
tion business. Winchester Cartridges are
made for all makes of rifles and pistols
and always give entire satisfaction.
FOR SALE BY DEALERS EVERYWHERE.


WHY YOU CAN TRUST MY
FREE CIGAR
TRIAL
OAAM.
* LMOST everybody knows about my eftorts
J\ to make Cigar-smoking popular in Aus-
tralia.
My FREE CIGAR TRIAL is this:—l’ll send
you a box of ioo DIADEMAS for 22/6— equal, as
they are, to any 6d. Cigar on the market; really
worth £2 ss, per too—and you can smoke 5 or 6
of them. If they aren't as goo'd as’any Cigar
you have ever tried, send the remainder back to
me, and I’ll refund your money in full, Without
any charge for those you’ve smoked.
Now, J want to prove to
you how straight this of'er is.
You might think —“Why
doesifl lie send the box up
without any money, and let
us send the money on when
we’ve tried the 5 ov 6 and
found them as good as he
says, or else return the
balance then ?”
I tell you right oft, I’d like
to do that. But that would
put all the trusting on my
side—and I’ve got to make a
living.
I know nearly eveiy man-
jack ofyou wouldact straight
to me if I did make this ofter.
But you know as well as I
there are some who would
get the Cigars, and let me
whistle for the money.
I know there’d be only a
few who w T ould do this; but
I sell my Cigars so close to
cost —cutting off all the ware-
houseman’s, traveller’s and
retailer’s profits —that these
few would cripple my scheme
altogether. That’s wthy I
can’t do it and give fEe"same"
Cigar value as I give to-day.
1 know you’re trusting me
in sending down the money
before you get the Cigars.
But you'll get the Cigars
right by return post, never
fear. You can smoke sor 6
of them, and if they’re not
as good as you expected,
you can send what are left
right back. I'll return your money —every
penny of it, with no deduction whatever—
and even here you needn’t only take my word
for it.
I have my banking account at the Com-
mercial bank of Australia Limited, Melbourne.
The General Manager there knows all about
me and my way of doing business. He’ll vouch
for me; and you can refer to him before you
send any order at all to me. That’s proof of my
squareness, isn’t it?
Sit down now and send me 22/6 to-day, and
I’ll forwaid you a box of 100 DIADEMAS
Cigars that I promise are equal to any 6d.
Cigar sold in Australia—made from clean, long,
straight Brazilian leaf, and rolled in the finest
Java wrapper.
My Only Address is
LOUIS KAUFFMANN
54 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE
Illustrated Descriptive Booklet will be
Mailed Free to any address.
A HUGE SUCCESS!
BIRDS
C.USTARD
5
Bird’s
Custard wuh Srutt
The delicious Fruits of New South
Wales,when stewed, form an exquisite
Dish with BIRD'S CUSTARD, served
either hot or cold. Most popular with
Adults and the Youthful alike.
PUBLIC CAUTION
When ashing for PHOSFERINE see that the article
•you get is the genuine and spelt
PHOSFERINE
Refuse any preparation of a similar sounding n^ e
which may be offered from interested motives. ihe
original and only genuine PHOSFERINE is prepaie y
ASHTON & PARSONS, LTD., LONDON
The Royal Example
Phosferine is used by the Royal Families of Europe,
which, ia plain language, means that every user of
Phosferine knows and feels that this famous Tonic is
recommended by the greatest living Physicians.
Indeed such has been its fame and recommendations, that
there is scarcely a Royal Residence in which PHOSFERINE
is not used and favourably spoken of.
PHOSFERINE
THE GREATEST OF ALL TONICS
No other medicine has received such absolute proof of its
extraordinary properties in restoring shattered constitutions
and in giving back to the prematurely aged new life and
energy. It is a proven remedy for Neuralgia, Nervous
Debility, Indigestion, Sleeplessness, Exhaustion,
Loss of Appetite, Lassitude, Faintness, Brain=Fag,
Headache, and ail disorders consequent upon a reduced
state of the nervous system.
Remember.
name. Insist upon having the genuine
Phosferine the kind that is supplied
by Royal Command
To the British Royal Family
H.I.M. the Empress of Russia
H.M. the King of Spain
H.M. the King of Greece
H.M. the Queen of Roumania
H.M. the Queen of Spain
H.I.H. the Dowager Empress of Russia
H. I. H. the Grand Duchess Olga of Russia
H.R.H. the Grand Duchess of Hesse
The Imperial Family of China.
And the Principal Royalty and Aristocracy throughout the world.
The Genuine Phosferine is sold by all Chemists Stores, etc., in bottles, 1/- and 2/6-
The 2/6 siza contains nearly four times the 1/- size.
MEDLOW BATH, Blue Mountaiivs, N.S.W.
MAJE-STIC HOTEL.
any time to .tart tron, the C,t, 0«»c,~o, year o,v„ re.ide.ce-direc.
-« pedestrinns° Medina 7 oiler, e,i,.,.„1n C attraction.. The .lew. in the n,contain. are .uperb, and
honrsean. be spent in walks throusrh the Hotel grounds. Tennlan Oaves
Hot-air pipes are laid in many rooms. Daily Motor trips are made from the Hotel to Jenolan Oaves.
Fnrther P particulars can be obtained from the Hotel, or from the Sydney Offices, 4_ Castlereagh Street.
W. H. BURGESS, Proprietor.
GOVERNMENT NOTICES.
*ll6l J° snsua O
. n f'thp Census and Statistics Act 1905, and the regal-
A TTENTION is draw nto the fact that under the P r °™'?” Bof 8of t ni ,, ht between Sunday the 2nd and Monday the
A lations made thereunder, every peison who vovaire between anv two Commonwealth ports, is
3rd April was in any part of th „ eG postmaster.
required to fill in a personal card, and han . , h person, it is his or her duty to apply to the
4 ln the eventof such a card not having supphed to and hand ifc the tnlaster .
nearest post office for a blank card and °°P 5 ° ' lf { t {, e census he or she is, in addition, required to obtain
If such person was the head of a household at the < late of the census,£ Mg or her pers^ nal card _ t 0 th e
from the post office a householder s card, and A. .; n f or o ne person, nor two householders’cards for one
postmaster. In no c'ase must two personal cards be filled in for£ H KNIBBS, Commonwealth Statistician,
household. ~
“ The BialtOi’' Collins Street, Melbourne.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted, whether sent by post or handed
in; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps
(of any State) accompany.
E.M.0.: Thanks; and “Clancy” is in-
formed accordingly that the flier known in Qj*
land as the storm-bird is, according to Gon Id, the
I channel-billed cuckoo ( Scythrops A°t>ae HoHandt®)-
....Portland: .Bulletin postage, Id.
Commonwealth; 2*d. over-seas .. •Q" zz f s r .- the
but it had to crowd into either this .issue or the
basket, and there was much more room in the
Sidwest : Once * more, this paper isn t big
elastic enough to permit us to a P hint
When a par is printed it may be taken as a hint
that it’s accepted ; when it isn’t printed it s a hint
that it has got into touch with the wicke [' ’’
D.P. (N.S.W.): Promising attempt. It is sincere
thoughtful verse, but a trifle rough ..M. J .S Sorry
to say it has one or two defats. ..R ; S.L.. JNo, oniiQ
of Thunder, ’tis weak. Also, don t call yourseii
Julius Caesar. Grow up patiently, and try again in
about five or 10 years. ..-Paid Adventuier Alas .
that fine dramatic sea-rescue appeals to have been
wasted on you. The verse might have been written
by the driest and most untravelled bush recluse....
J.H.C.S.: Regret neither hit print-mark. .. .Sip, in el.
Put it this way:
Marv has a harem skirt,
My word ; it makes us laugh !
Who cares a d —n for Mary’s lamb
When you can see her calf!
But can you see her calf? If so, her patten, must
be different from those we have
dr (Sydney): It burnt well P-N.K-.
commonplace. ...K.W.: Poem entitied Poetry
Motion” nearly paralysed. Have sent out foi some
liniment and put hot bottles to its numerous feet...
! R. S. (S.A.) : May Bruce Smith s Socialism bust the
old bogus bush-home, and tear the tail-feathers out
of the moth-eaten curlew and the stuffed mopoke.
You have just looted the bush poets’ property-room
during their absence at the corner pub, and pumped
ip a spurious imitation of Grief. Be cheerful. (
would be more violent but tor the appealing little
pink bow with which the poem is tied.) ... .IChabod.
History repeats itself. There is really no heed for
vou to do it in lumpish, verse. . - Smoke Oh . . Smoke
it is and fire too! L.11.P.: lor Heaven s sake,
round up vour flock of straggling words. This isn t
a one-sheep-to-20-acre squattage; its A closer-settle-
ment block Torbane: Propose to handle. later
....F. Sprig: None suitable.... W.E.11.. Have ex-
tracted the following sample for analysis:
THE OLD HORSE.
He was born on Christmas morning,
Just as the day was. dawning, i .
And I never will forget that eventful sight,
As he was by Victory out of Stranger,
So I called him Common Ranger, •
And I had him ever since he saw the light.
And when he was three years old
His mother she lay cold,
As in the grave behind the house she lay ;
And I put him then in train,
Though people said I was insane
For they said he’s never beat the favorite Stray.
Better apprentice yourself formally to a horse-poet
and learn the business thoroughly Riley: Hardly
enough in the yarn for a paragraph. . . .A.. 1.11.: it
isn’t worth continuing in that line. Contribution
resembles a badly-lighted blind alley. . . .Vamba.
Unskilful work. Can’t hand you any encouragement.
'....X-Rays (V.): Not strong enough. .. .A. H.: Six
lines:
No animosity
in me or thee,
Just charity.
Hit me hard,
I’m not a bard
In vain, Pard !
We take it that this means you have sworn off verse.
; Sandy McNab, Jr.: What are you writing your
| sorrows into verse for? Has someone shot your bag-
pipes? G.J.H.: Dull, careful verse H.J.A.:
Donated to the basket M. Quill: Some power,
but the construction is weak and the treatment un-
even Won Hi: No fear! Twenty fi’ verse too
muchee. You too long. No good! The Pariah:
That sort of verse has to be well done; otherwise,
instead of rousing the nation, it merely irritates it
and increases the demand for mosquito lotion. ...
Kirsty C.: None usable. Guess the address on the
card must be intended for Frederick-street, Ashneld.
Judy: ‘Usual three-handed story, with a weak
climax Pudsey: Sorry cannot use your great
poem, “The Pimple.” Why not try to sell it to one of
the firms that supply skin fodder ? According to their
advertisements, the skin is alnmst as, hungry as the
sixpenny restaurant customer. Re-christen the poem
“The Starving Skin,” and offer it to the manageress
of some parlor where they supply quick lunches for
pores R.R.T.: Neither Arthur H.: You may
have one whoop:
If I were king it would be fine !
Time then to sing and taste life’s wine.
Kings these days don’t amount to much,
They’re just to smile and bow and such ;
But I suppose a manly man
A king would be in this world’s plan ;
King on pauper sowing good seed,
Ruling himself a king indeed ;
T often fancy myself king
When my heart’s deep thoughts poets sing.
Wrong. If you were an Australian king you would
have a rabbit-skin robe, a fencing-wire sceptre and a
crown made out of a kerosene - tin. Your palace
would be a bark hut in the bush, and the passing
poet would never dream of singing your heart’s deep
thought. He would merely sing his own sorrows as
usual, and. get indignant if you refused to buy the
doleful things and print them in the Court Journal.
... .D.M. (Perth) : The humorous one is too mild
and the other is commonplace.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CONTRIBUTORS.
Ron-ro: There’s hope for you—after you’ve drawn
a few “hundred more hands and feet. When the un-
ripe artist doesn’t trip over his subjects hands he
generally falls over their feet. .. .W.8.A.: W.P.8.. .
J McJ.: Too mechanical Bemta: Missed this
timp S.T.: Not good enough to print, but quite
good enough to encourage G.D.: Rather in-
genious; but we abhor puns. .. . W.L., J.M., J.W.,
PJM R Fitz, F.A.W., Out West: Unsuitable.
“ Gomer ” : “ Death isn’t always the pur-
suer” (B. 30/3/’ 11). Here is a case in point. I
once saw a crowd of excited Connaught people on
the wharf at Londonderry. The women were
weeping pitifully, and the men were in an almost
dangerous state of frenzy. Upon inquiry, I found
that the folk were a batch of intending emigrants
who had booked for the U.S. by the Montreal
S S Co’s Anglo-Saxon, but had arrived too late
to catch her. The vessel was never heard of
again. These people were thus unwittingly be-
wailing the fact that, though they had chased
Death hard, he had given them the slip.
“8.N.F.,” from N'Yark :
In the wav of railways the business-like Yank knows
lust how to do things. He gets Private Enterprise to
run his lines, and then creates Public Service Commis-
sions to eternally chase the Private Enterprise and im-
plore it to provide shelter sheds at the depots, lower
fares safer crossings, better lighting, more rapid tran-
sit punctual and more reasonable freight carriage, etc.
One example occurs at my door. At a popular New
York suburb the passengers are frequently herded, like
sheep, to a wicket gate, the only entrance to the whole
train, and compelled to await turns to scramble up steps
at least twice the height of those on a Sydney tram.
Then follows a ride of 13 miles in dimly-lit cars, 35 cents
(Is. s*d.) single, 70 cents (2s. lid.) return. The writer
has moved about a bit in the States. There are some
fast trains in parts, but few and far between ; and when
I he gets home he will have learned to chasten a growl
1 even at the Pinkenba-Brisbane express.


Your Government
says it’s pure.
A BOVE everything else the
" label on the JOSHUA
bottle is a Government
guarantee that the whisky
is pure and that you run no
risk in drinking it. While
the seal is on the bottle, the
collar round the neck, the
cork (with Joshua’s brand)
inside and the capsule over
that, you are absolutely safe.
The Government protects you.
Obtainable at
The Civil
Service Stores,
Pitt Street, Sydney,
c J
r\
r
Wit
+yss>X<<*£
LWITffJJW cr
ONH'
$
A
W/C^Rt/
STANDARD'*
~\ MALT Ag
HI SKY
6?
e
£stQ^
jLu
Crs.
rrs
riELBouDN
440?
*
r>
V
f=?
fNIM
r
The Whisky, you
will agree, is good ;
and that will agree
with you because
it’s good.
J4925—15c t. Gold, Pearl and Blue Tour-
maline set Pendant, £2/2/-
Gl6Bo—Pearl and Tur-
quoise set, 15ct. Gold
Pendant, 70/-
C4l7B—lsct. Gold (Palm Leaf) Brooch
Pendant, set with Pink and Green
Tourmalines and Fine White Pearls,
£7/10/-
Fullest Value —Finest Quality.
The purchasing power of ten large establishments is greater than
that of one. There are ten large Stewart Dawson establishments in
different parts of the world, the buying for which is controlled in
London. When you come to compare our prices with other prices,
carefully keeping in mind the quality and merit of design, the inevitable
conclusion you arrive at is the superiority in value and quality of all
“Treasure House” goods. Send for our Illustrated Catalogue.
J4XB—Fine Diamond,
Pearl and Olivine
Pendant, £lB/10/-
JS23l —9et. Gold Pen-
dant, set Amethyst,
Green Tourmalines
and Pearls, 25/-
H 2079 —9ct. Gold Plain Band Bangle, £1 7s. 6d.
from 21/- to 40/»
Otbera
&
Hi
*
The “Britannic” Expanding Watch Bracelet, 9ct. Gold, with
fine Lever Movement, £B/10/- 15ct. Gold ditto, £l2/10/-
15ct. Gold, Pearl set, £lB/10/=
C5BB1 —15et. Gold and Turquoise set Bangle, £6/15/-
Ditto, Oct. Gold, £5.
Stewart Dawson 8 Co.
(Australia),
Strand Corner, 412 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
J4GS3—Oct. Golf], Pearl and Amethyst set
Necklet, £2/10/-
J299s—Fine Aquamarine
and Pearl set, 15ct. Gold
Pendant, £3/10/-


£lOOO
IN PRIZES
£.lOOO
Value
£5OO
[ First 1
1 Great Prize J
Value
£5OO
Or Twelve Months’ Trip Round the
World and £lOO in Cash for ONE
PERSON, or Eight Months for Two.
Noth.—The Committee, having' paid full
value for the work of art, is prepared to find
a Purchaser for same at the advertised
amount if the winner so desires, also for the
Second and Third Prizes.
SECOND: Value £lOO. THIRD : Value £5O.
And 97 other Prizes, totalling: £lOOO.
Eight Hours’
Art Union.
55th Year—Oldest and Most Popular—ssth Year
Proceeds in aid of the Hospitals
and Public Charities of Australia.
Prizes will be delivered to winners free of
all charges. A list of winning numbers
will be posted to any person sending an
addressed envelope to the representative,
with stamp unaffixed.
Buy from your Local Agent on or before
April 29, or send Postal Note, P. 0.0., or
stamps with exchange added, direct to the
Representative, 231 Flinders Lane, Mel-
bourne, at once for tickets, and secure a
chance in this Great Art Union. 22 for
£l, 11 for 10s , or Is. each.
All direct applications must reach Melbourne
before the date of drawing, May 16, 1911.
Lest You Forget,
Buy To-day.
THEO. W. HEIDE, Representative,
231 Flinders Lane, Melbourne, Vie.
The Elite
Eau de Cologne
as
.
am
FIDELfTAS
F.Wolff&Sohnl
® ■Karlsruhe e I
BADEN :■
il
Triumph of
Modem Science
Obtainable from all leading establishments
rjHHE BEST STORIES written in Australia
II appear in The Lone Hand each month.
lYice sixpence.
Valuable alike
for
the
Invalid and Robust
A Complete Milk and Farinaceous Food.
Easy of Digestion, Most Agreeable to take, Simply and Quickly made.
The ‘Allenburys’ Diet is recommended for general use in place of ordinary milk foods, gruel etc and is
particularly adapted to the needs of Dyspeptics, Invalids and the Aged. Being largely predigested it s
easy of assimilation. A cup of the ‘Allenburys’ Diet is useful in the forenoon, between meals
The ‘Allenburys’ Diet may be taken with advantage, on going to bed, in the place of stimulants
Being easily digested it promotes tranquil and
refreshing sleep, free from the depressing re-
action ir the morning, which often follows
the taking of spirits.
For those who cannot readily digest milk the
‘Allenburys’ Diet is a welcome substitute, as it
does not cause indigestion and flatulence.
Allen & Hanburys Ltd., London, Eng.,
and MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS
NEW SERIES—IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve, 6d. ; Packet of Ten, sd,
The Missing “Parisiana
»
HER FATE REVEALED
“The missing steamer “Parisiana” has been abandoned
in the Indian Ocean in the grip of a great fire, and by
now is a charred and buckled ruin reposing on the ocean
bottom.” —Daily Papers, 21st Jan., 1911.
On the “Parisiana” there were 183 of our famous “Bettendorf” Farm
Trucks—a large portion of them sold for early delivery.
The shipment to replace the trucks burned with her will—per cable advices
—arrive here about April 25th. .
By that date many of our original customers will have supplied their
requirements elsewhere.
It will take a fair sized warehouse to store these 183 i rucks, and we are
already short of store room.
Our inventory bassoon to be taken, and we must reduce stock before that date.
To do it—these reductions to those who will take delivery from April 25th
to May 31st 1911: —
Truck
Table Top
Brake
Bolster Springs
regular retail
SPOT CAStf
PRICES.
£l9-0-0
5-15-0
2-7-6
2-7-6
Complete
£29-10-0
SPECIAL PRICES.
J 4 Months t
| 10 Months J
From date of
delivery.
£l7-2-0
5-3-6
2-2-9
2-2-9
£26-11-0
F. 0.8
Brisbane, Sydney,
Melbourne,
Pt. Adcl iide, Launceston,
Devonport or Hobart.
The Special Prices are a 10% reduction from the regular prices, and the
terms conceded are equal to a further 5%.
The Trucks are a splendid value at the regular prices, and are a
qenuine bargain at the reduction above advertised.
Don't ask for or expect any reduction from regular prices after May 31st—
we cannot grant it.
Also remember that directly this particular consignment is sold-even
though it be prior to May 31st—the special offer ceases.
Any farmer wanting a handy Farm Truck—one that has no wood to warp
or rot—that will stand the most trying service-that will cause him no expense
for tyre cutting—has only himself to blame if he doesn t take advantage of this
offer. . .
gy We have such confidence in the Truck that we will consign one to
any responsible farmer on receipt of order, and if on inspection he
doesn't care to keep it, he may re-consign it to us—we paying boi
freights.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AMERICA
gOO Roma St., Brisbane. 37 Broadway, Sydney. 545 Bourke St., Melbourne.
18-20 North Terrace, Adelaide. 75 York St., Laumeslon.
ROBT. NETTLEFOLD, Hobart. General Agent for Southern Tasmania.
n
1
< m
TIP
IP
m


o
Other Models from 7/6 to 40/-
Catalogues Sent Free.
MELBA
the ACCORDEON with
The Mellow Tone.
Is just perfection for song accompaniments,
Dance and Picnic Music. The organ-like
tone of these instruments is attained by the
use of Bell Metal Reeds which are hand
litted and tuned.
3 Popular Models.
THE ORGAN-TONED MELBA
3 sets Bell Metal Reeds, price 22/6, postfree.
THE DANCE KING.
4 sets Bell Metal Reeds, price 30/-, post free.
THE PICNIC MODEL.
2 rets Bell Metal Reeds, price 15/-, postfree.
ALLAN & CO., 276 Collins St., Melb.
9!
0
(
BILIOUS SUBJECTS
!/ are generally victims of Constipation, that root evil of so many \\
I terrible afflictions ; but they are “ bilious subjects ” no longer when \\
I they adopt the famous Cockle's Antibilious Pills as the standing
household remedy, now in the \
Second Century of World-Wide Renown.
Cockle’s Pills, which doctors of six generations have taught the world
to use and esteem, have no harsh, coercive action on the sluggish organs;
they gently stimulate, soothingly strengthen and encourage, the natural
organic functions, at the same time thoroughly cleansing the system and
purifying the vital fluid. There is nothing to equal Cockle’s Pills for
this perfect cleansing, reinvigorating, purifying combination of results.
It is marvellous.
paa.iL
PRICE 2/
per
Pot.
Watch Your Skin Grow Clearer
Using soap and water only is expecting Nature to do too much.
Chaps, rough or red skin, sallowness, blotches, wrinkles,' and
other unsightly skin conditions result from the presence of ex-
traneous matter which soap and water does not always eradi-
cate. Help Nature, and keep your skin in tone by using
Icilma Fluor Cream
(Gr^aseless).
Every day, especially before going out, apply a little of the
cream, and enhance your beauty. Good for preventing
sunburn and freckles.
The natiye girl reminds you that ICILMA is
the product of a Natural Spring in Algeria.
SAMPLE OFFER. On receipt of 2d. in stamps a dainty
sample of (jreaseless Cream will be sent by
ICILMA CO. Ltd.,
(Dept. D),
139 York Street, SYDNEY.
Miss
Amy
Willard,
who gives this
CLEMENTS
TONIC
testimony,
m
is well known to Sydney and Melbourne audiences as one of the
leads of the Willoughby Comedy Co. (Meynell & Qunn’s attract
tions). She writes to ailing women thus
“CLEHENTS TONIC LTD.
“On account of Clements Tonic being used largely by the theatrical
as well as other professions, and through its being highly recommended
to me by one of the leading actors upon the Australian stage, I secured
and used it for several weeks. I was more than gratified, as the result
was a general improvement in soundness of nerve, natural and keen
appetite, sweet refreshing sleep, which was all the more welcome because,
often through continuous study, I suffered from insomnia and broken rest.
“To women, especially those weak-nerved, run-down in health,
anaemic, with poor appetite and gene al decline of physical strength, I
consider Clements Tonic a valuable medicine, for it gives appetite and
natural sleep, and is creative of sound and permanent health.
“f Signed) AMY WILLARD.”
The testimony above is simply a message to women in ill-health that Clements Tonic is a reliever of many of
the ills from which they suffer. If used periodically, it keeps the system in order and makes Sick or Nervous
Headache, Insomnia or Broken Rest, Poor Appetite, Weakness, Morbidness, Biliousness, Sluggish Liver and
Constipation things of the past. This is gratifying, for who does not weary of the pain that produces
melancholy, the suffering that creates despair—often penalties of neglect of natural needs of the bod3', the
refusal to knep the stomach healthy, the nerves strong, the heart sound, and the blood pure by the use of
this unquestionably splendid medicine. The medicine that gives health, gives life—and that medicine is
Clements Tonic. Get it, and get well. Every household should have it.
All Chemists and Stores sell it in the Commonwealth.
The NEW EDISON
RECORDS are now on Sale
THE lists for May ccmprise 49 first-class Records, of which 34 are
Amberol and 15 Standard Records.
The Catholic Hymns are very beautiful numbers, while the Grand
Opera Selections are among the best we have ever offered. The
Record by Sara Bernhardt is a splendid exposition of the famous
actress's dramatic power, and is sure to be well received.
You should call on the nearest Edison dealer and ask him to play
over some of these fine Reccids for you. If you do not know his
address, write us direct, and we will tell you, and also send latest lists
of Records and Phonographs.
AMBEROL RECORDS FOR MAY (Four-minute).
641 Red Wing .. F. H. Potter, Chorus and N.Y.
Military Band,
642 For You Bright Eyes. .Barbour and Anthony.
544 Serenade .. Venetian Instrumental Trio.
545 Dear Little Shamrock .. Marie Narelle.
546 Comic Epitaphs .. Golden and Hughes.
547 — Fantasy from “ The Fortune Teller ”
Herbert and Orchestra.
549 —O Morning Land .. Stanley and Gillette.
651—When the Autumn Turns the Forest Leaves to
Gold Romain.
552 — A Cowboy Romance.. .. Spencer and Co.
553 Buck Dance Medley (Aeeordeon Solo)
lvimmble.
554 My Heart Has Learned to Love You... Maxwell.
655 —Coronation and Doxob gy
Edison Mixed Quartette.
556 The Fairest Rose Waltz (Xylophone Solo)
Daab.
557 M.v Old Lady Will Oakland.
658—Shipwreck and Rescue (Descriptive)
Peerless Quartette.
559 —The Enterpriser March .. N.Y. Military Band.
12224—The Girl in the Train . .National Military Band.
12225—0ut on the Deep .. .. ..Peter Dawson.
12226—Don’t Do Away with All the Peers (Piers)
D’Albert.
12228—Lochaber No More (Violin Solo)
J. Scott Skinner.
12229—Private Atkins.. .. ~ Arthur Osmond.
12230—0 n the Same Place Every Time. .Florrie Forde.
12231—The Green Isle of Erin .. .. Ernest Pike,
12233—Invitation to the Waltz .. National Miljtary
Band.
GRAND OPERA AMBEROL.
30030—Favorita —Spirto gentil (sung in Italian)
Aristodeino Giorgini (tenor).
35009 —Lucia di Lamtnermoor —Mad Scene (sung- in
Italian) .. Selina K.urz (soprano).
40031—Stradella—Serenade (sung in German)
Leo Slezak (tenor).
40032—Mnnrin Lescaut—ln quelle trifle morbide
(sung in Italian) .. Lucrezia Bori (soprano).
40033 —M dame Butterfly—Un bel di vedremo (sung
in Italian). .Carolina Longone-Wbite (soprano).
Special Sacred List Catholic Hymns.
614 Adeste Fideles .. Edison Mixed Quartette-
-615— Mother, Dear, O ! Pray for Me
Anthony and Harrison.
616 Gloria from 12th Mass
Edison Mixed Quartette.
Amberol Record by Sarah Bernhardt.
35003—Phedre—La Declaration (in French)
Sara Bernhardt.
STANDARD RECORDS FOR MAY (Two-minute).
10436 —Merry Maiden March .. N.Y. Military Band.
10439—1 wonder How the Old Folks are at Home?
Oakland.
10440—Highland Whisky and Craig Reel (Violin Solo)
William Craig.
10442—Softly Now the Light of Day .. Anthony and
Harrison.
10443 —Nobody Seems to Love Me Now. . Joe Maxwell.
10445—W00d and Straw Galop (Xylophone Solo) Daab.
14008—A Sergeant of the Line, March
National Military Band.
14009—D0 What Yon Like With Me.. George d’Albert.
14010—Long Live the King'! .. .. Peter Dawson.
14011—Chanson Triste (Cello Solo) .. Jean Schwiller.
14013—1 Wish I Were a Tiny llird .. Amy Evans.
14014—A Little Bit Here and There.. Ben Albert.
14015—A Girl Who Was Never Used to It
Florrie Forde.
14016—May I be Allowed to Suggest ?
Arthur Osmond.
14017—Kismet—Hindoo Intermezzo
National Military Band.
TEN SPECIAL AMBEROL RECORDS ALMOST FREE
MANY people have been under the impression that if their Phonographs were equipped
with Amberol Attachments so as to play Amberol Records, they wotild be unable to
play the Standard (two-minute) Records which they already have. That impression
is an erroneous one. If you equip your Phonograph with an Amberol Attachment you can
play both Amberol (four-minute) and Standard (two-minute) Records, and you can instantly
change from one to the other by a simple process.
Now here is our special offer : With every purchase of an Amberol Attachment, ranging
in price from 26/6 to 43/-, according to the style of Phonograph to be fitted, the purchaser
receives 10 Amberol Records. These are Special Records, confined, exclusively to this offer,
and cannot be secured in any other way.
We are making this offer simply to acquaint Phonograph owners with the advantage of
having the Amberol Attachment on their instruments, thereby doubling the entertainment
that the Phonograph will give at a slight additional cost, and at practically no additional cost
for the first Amberol Records they own.
Call on the Edison dealer nearest you to-day and ask for the special folder giving details
of this offer, also list of the Amberol Records which cannot be obtained in any other way,
or write us direct for a free copy.
NATIONAL PHONOGRAPH CO. OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.
(Wholesale only), Dept. B, 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
EXPERTS
E stock everything in the
r Y Cinematograph line, and
can supply what you want at
a moment’s notice. From
Machines to Films and Acces-
sories we can fit you out, and,
maybe, our advice will be
worth something to you besides.
HALF A MILLION
FEET OF FILMS ON
ALL SUBJECTS IN
STOCK.
JERDAN’S,
“ MY OPTICIANS,”
OPTICIANS AND ELECTRICIANS
393 George Street
(Facing
Royal Hotel),
Sydney
CAPILLARTNF the moustache producer
\
k
IF YOU WANT A MOUSTACHE
and find a difficulty in growing’ one, there is no better preparation than
CAPILLARINE.
It will produce a long, flowing moustache quicker than anything. It is unde-
tectable in u<e, and certain in results. For over 25 years it has given complete-
success, and will do so in your case. TRY IT NOW.
Price 10/6 a jar. Post free in plain wrapper to any address in the world.
Have you a Moustache? The Craig; & Aitken Trainer shapes it
nicely. Worn at night. 2/6 post free.
CRAIG and AITKEfI,
654 George Street, Sydney.
Established
30 Years.
s
r


Shipping.
P. and 0. BRANCH SERVICE
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
* Twin-screw.
SALOON ACCOMMODATION, AMIDSHIPS,
CONVERTED INTO VERY SUPERIOR
ONE CLASS.
LONDON £l6, £lB and £‘2o.
CAPETOWN and NATAL £l3 135., £l5 15s. and £l7 17s.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD., 7 Bent St.
Mki.iiomiink Aoknts : JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William-street.
Apki.aidr & Fiikmanti.k Agrnts : OEO. WILLS & CO.
ORIENT One
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN D.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy. New and luxurious
12,000-ton Steamers. Cahines-de-luxe ; State-rooms, with
bedsteads; Single Rerth Rooms, Private Bathrooms;
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Sailing every fortnight from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
l2 Martin Place, Sydnky.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
™ e jjank of Dorth Queensland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J P. CANNY.
Local Director :
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Philp &00., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 4 QUEEN VICTORIA STREET, E.C.
Manager: R. R. LOVE.
Bankers: THE LONDON COUNTY & WESTMINSTER
BANK LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Bank of |)eui Z ea l ai, d.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
Total Capital Paid-up £2,000,000
Uncalled Capital £500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits £864,134
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
THE
Australian Bank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under tlie Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL • - - £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,197,127
PAID-UP (31st December, 1910) - - £1,145,933
HEAD OFFICE—George and King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE—2 King William Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS—Sir William P. Manning, Kt., Chairman ;
George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D.; Ciias. 11. Myles, Esq. ;
Mark Sheldon, Esq. ; Arthur S. Barton, Esq.; Frank
N. Yarwood, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the world.
A. P. STEWART, General Manager.
The ...
Queensland National Bank,
Limited
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1803.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 413,484 8 10
Reserve (in Gov. Stock) 94,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock . 3,091,669 4 5
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 Specially Protected.
Directors: JAS. MILNE, Esq., Chairman; JAMES
MUNRO, Esq. ; Hon. A. J. CALLAN, Esq., M.L.G. •
JOHN CAMERON, Esq. ; F. LORD, E q.
General Manager— W. V. RALSTON.
Branches—London, Sydney & throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up £519,237 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. .. 161,384 0 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) .. 75,500 0 0
£756,121 0 0
HEAD OFFICE : BRISBANE.
Gen, Mngr.: Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London,
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
The Colonial mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds. £3,000.000.
Policies Issued 116.154 —Assuring £33.888.510.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,727,264.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Walks:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The lloi. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Shipping.
REDUCED FARES
To EUROPE
BY
N ord D eutscher Lloyd.
PASSENGERS hooked to Egypt, Naples,
Genoa, Algiers, Marseilles, Gibraltar,
London, Antwerp, and Bremen.
w Kitted with “ Wireless” installation.
* Arriving in London in good time for the Coronation.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
REGULAR FOUR ■ WEEKLY MAIL
SERVICE from Sydney and Brisbane, via
New Guinea, by Twin-screw Steamers.
For Passage and Full Particulars apply to —
LOHMANN & CO., General Agents,
7 & 9 Bridge Street, Sydney ;
OSTERMEYER DEWEZ & VAN ROMPACY, Melbourne ;
11. MUECKE & CO., Adelaide;
L. RATAZZI & CO., Perth and Fremantle; 4
THOS. BROWN & SONS, Ltd., Brisbane and Townsville.
a THE BULLETIN POST CARDS—New
Series. IV., V.. VI. Packet of Twelve,
6d. ; Packet of Ten, sd. Forwaided Post Free
to any address.
TH€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth and
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLINC AT MELBOURNE and FRE VIANTLE.
h Calls Hobart. Fitted Wireless Telegraphy,
f One Class Only.
FARRS — Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. „ From £57 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Special Return Tickets available for outward passage
by Orient Line—£ll2 (First-class each way); £B5
(Second-class Orient).
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the nisrhest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
DALCETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN, PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
Twin-screw Steamers.
RERSIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
May 10.
RUNIC, 12,500 tons, to sail about
June 7.
MEDIC and AFRIO to follow.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy and
Submarine Signalling A|i|> ,ratus.
Only One Class Of Accommodation.
FARRS —Capetown or Durban *l5 15 0 to £24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
Melbourne 1 10 0
New York, Boston, Quebec,
Montreal, <fcc. from 25 0 0
Pamphlets and all other information on application.
T.UGGAGR Received Only on Day of Sailing,
DALGETY & COMPANY, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
YOUR WINTER
HOLIDAY.
OEND for our Booklet, “Papua and the
Pacific Islands, How to visit them?’
describing many delightful Island trips from
p£io upwards. Most attractive as Winter
Holiday Cruises.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., 11 Bridge St., Sydney.
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
HEAD OFFICE: MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
MONEY TO LEND
To Farmers and Settlers from £5O to £2OOO,
repayable by instalments extending- over 30 years
with right to repay loan without penalty.
Partial repayments on fa\orable terms.
Low rates of interest.
Valuation Fees on lowest scale.
On Investment up to £25,C00 for fixed terms not
exceeding five years on Freeholds or Certificated C.P’s.
and Associated O.L’s. Interest payable half-yearly.
Right to repay one-fifth of principal each year
allowed.
Lowest current rates of interest.
Full particulars and forms of application for loans obtainable at any Branch' or Post Office Agency, or from
Crown Lands Agents and at the Head Office, MOORE STREET, SYDNEY. J. 11. Davies. Secretary.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
DIRECTORS
xSB3#HKjf
£2,817,660
£1,872,695
£2,817,660
£7,508,015
The Hon. C. K. MacKellar, M.L.C., Presiden
Senator The Hon. Janies Thomas Walker'.
The Hon. Reginald James lilack, M.L.C.
Thomas Bnckland, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Uorniand MacLaurih, Ivt., M.L.C.
Auditors : Alfred George Milson, Esq. ; William Harrington Palmer, Esq.
Head Office—George St., Sydney. London Office—64 Old Broad St., E.C.
With 319 Branches in all the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji and Papua(New South Wales 159, Victoria 37,
Queensland 47, South Australia 5, West Australia'll, New Zealand 54, Fiji 3, Papua 2, London 1); and
Agents and Correspondents throughout Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India, China, Japan, and
the East, Africa, Canada, the United States, South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
Cable remittances made to, and Drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills negotiated and
collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
FURS, Curios, Shells &. Opals
The Largest Store in Australasia.
Established 1860.
Tost & Rohu,
Taxidermists, Furriers, Tanners
and Island Curio Dealers,
10, 12 & 14 MOORE STREET, opp. C.P.0.,
SYDNEY. Central 2196.
Large Showrooms and Museum, containing thousands of
Australian Souvenirs. Inspection invited.
Returning Boomerangs from 1/6 each. Carved Emu Eggs,
4/6 each. Native Grass Dresses, 4/6. Bow and Six Arrows,
2/6 the set. Spears, Clubs, Idols, Kava and Food Bowls,
Shields, Masks, Stone Axes, Bark Belts, Tappa and Matting.
Pet Snakes, 20/- Snake Skin Ties and Watch Guards, 2/- each ;
Snake Skin Belts and Braces, 7/6; Slippers, 12/6; Boots,
£l/2/6 per pair, . Skins made up into Ladies’ Furs, Mats,
Rugs and Foot Warmers.
And 605 CEOItCE ST., SYDNEY. City 2374. Stuffed Birds and Animals in Large Variety.
All Purciiasks Packkd Fr.hk axd Labklled. Collections of Genuine Curios from £3.
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney. Limited.
Capital Paid-up £1,500,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 1,420,000 0 0
Reserve Capital 1,500,000 0 U
£4,420,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
George J. Cohen, Esq. .. .. Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Rater, M.L.C. .. .. Deputy-Chairman,
lion. H. Moses, M.L.C. A. J. Onslow Thompson, Esq.
Hon. James Burns, M.L.C.
Auditors : E. S. Cape, Esq., and F. W. Hixson, Esq.
General Manager : T. A. Dibbs.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
11. H. Massif..
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
Manager : A. J. Soutar.
Accountant: W. R. Sayers.
Secretary: M. S. Ghant.
Branch Accountant: J. Clayton.
Inspectors:
M. C. B. Tiley, W. H. Piniiey.
London Office: 18 Birchin - Lane.
Directors : F. 11. Hangar, Esq. ; lion. 11. S. Littleton ;
N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manager, F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the World.
THE OCEAN
Accident & Guarantee
Corporation Limited,
Ocean House, 22 Moore Street, Sydney.
Fire, accident, workmen’s com-
pensation, PUBLIC RISK. BUR-
GLARY and PLATE GLASS INSURANCES
at Lowest Rates.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Colllns-Bt., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. ..- .. .. £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortitajres) '.. .. £37.500 0 0
Dirnctous : R. Murray Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Chairman ;
John Grice, Esq., Vice-Chairman ; Hon. J. M. Pratt ; J. H.
MacFarland, Esu., M.A., LL.D. ; Alexander M'Cracken.
JAMES BORROW M-AK, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
The METROPOLITAN
ACCIDENT, FIRE
and GENERAL
INSURANCE COMPANY, LIMITED.
THE CO-OPERATIVE FIRE OFFICE.
Shares Issued to Contributors of Business.
When Your Premium is Due Get Full Particulars.
HEAD OFFICE: 30 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
BRANCHES: Victoria, S. Aus., Queensland.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports*
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
FREMANTLE.
Transhippinc at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
GER.AI.DTON (W.A.)
S.S. Kanowna, April 29 and
May 27
(To Fremantle without
transhipment), connect-
in Sr with lioombana
in Fremantle for North
West Ports.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Pores North to Cairns.
S.S. Innrtnincka, April 22.
S..S. Allinira, April 29.
S.S. Gran tala, May 6.
Best and Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets'are interchangeable after the
rust I orfc of call with other iuter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S- YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRAUAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
To VANCOUVER, via BRISBANE
FIJI, and HONOLULU, thence
by Rail to any part of CANADA
or UNITED STATES.
The Best Route to Europe.
SAILINGS :
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
* Via Auckland, New Zealand ; omits Brisbane.
Illustrated Pamphlets Free on Application.
Agents throughout Canada, United States
and Europe—Canadian Pacific Railway Co.
For full particulars apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George-street, Sydney.
F. H. vV.
Federal-Houlder-Shire Lines.
STEAM TO LONDON
Via SUEZ CANAL.
T.S.S. “AYRSHIRE*"'
11.900 Tons. VV. J. Paige. Commander*
Will be despatched from BRISBANE - about 30th April
SYDNEY - - „ Bth. May
„ „ MELBOURNE „ 9th May A
.. „ ADELAIDE - „ lath May
The saloon accommodation consists of all two-berth,
cabins on the upper deck, situated amidships.
The superior third-class accommodation, comprised of
two, four and eight-berth cabins, situated on the main,
deck, amidships, with dining room on the upper deck..
Well lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious decks.
Third-class passengers supplied with fresh provisions
from cool chamber throughout the voyage. Surgeon and
Stewardess carried. Electric light throughout. Return
and Round Trip tickets issued via Cape and (or) Sues
routes. Prepaid passages arranged.
Saloon. Third Class.
FARES.. .. £49 10s. £l3 13s. £l5 15s. £l7 17s.
Steerage fares from Brisbane One Guinea extra.
To be followed at regular four-weekly intervals by fast
twin-screw passenger steamers. For further information,
illustrated books, pamphlets, etc., apply to
BIRT & CO., Ltd., Svdney ;
TURNBULL, MARTIN & CO., Brisbane*
H. .lONICS & CO.. Ltd., Hobart;
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN & Co., Ltd., Melbourne*
ELDER. SMITH & Co., Ltd.. Adelaide.
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.,
FOR —*
Ordinary 8 Industrial Life Assurance.
Directors:
H. Montgomerie Hamilton, Esq., Chairman.
Victor E. Lbdlow, Esq., L.R.C.5.1., L.K.Q.C'p.I.
Claude Manning, Esq.
John F. Urk, Esq.
General Manager: J. A. Henderson.
Secretary:
Freeman J. Baton.
Consulting' Actuary
W. R. Day, F.I.A.
Head Office :
30 CASTLEREACH ST. (facing Moore St.), SYDNEY.
Queensland :
Metropolitan Building's,
Adelaide St., Brisbane.
Victoria:
48 Queen St.
Melbourne.
The “Metropolitan” always has vacancies on its
Afrency Staff for reliable and trustworthy men.
“Pot Pourri”T ds Quality
“POT POURRI” PIPE TOBACCO—
the highest product of the tobacco-
blender's art. 40Z. tins, 2/= ; Boz.
tins, 4 /= ; 8/= per lb.
“POT POURRI” always the same,
always enjoyable.
Clients in country or other States
ORDER NOW, and it will be posted
FREE by return, with Catalogue which will
interest you.
A. A. MARKS,
Sole Ag-ent, 376 Ceorge St.
Sydney, N.S.W.
mHE BULLETIN POST CARDS.-Is ew
JL Series. IV.. V.. VI. Packet of Twelve, Or];
Packet of Ten, sd. Posted free to any address!
Special rates to-agents. The Bulletin Offir--,
214 George Street, Sydney.


* EORGE HOTEL,
* St. Hilda., Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
HOTEL
CECIL
(LONDON).
(J The largest and
most magnificent
Hotel in Europe.
C[ Intending visitors
to the CORONATION
should book their
rooms early.
Cable Address: “
CECELIA, LONDON.”
tariff Booklet gratis
at office of this paper.
A
&&S2Q/)
&
v
*>
c.
,
Do
t~V
h.
Cy
Cy
O
<y
s'*?e2 IUOI r
.pp
UTIES
TttE OFUY
TYRE j :
built' on
/ciDYnrl v
PRINCIPLE./
m
/ILVERTOW
RUBBER C
'279 GEORGE J T
) snm
Model “T" Touring Car, 4-cyl., 20-h.p., 5-passenger, £270 (full equipment included).
“ FORDS” are without doubt the most suitable cars for Australian
onditions, and the following features will be at once recognised by
he man from the country as being absolute essentials
1. Extra High Clearance.
2. Liprlit Weight.
3. Plenty of Power (20-h.p.)
4. Easy on Tyres.
5. Cheapness of Maintenance.
G. Extreme Simplicity.
7. Vanadium Steel.
S. Cost (£270 complete).
9. Interchangeable Parts.
10. Reliability.
A large, full and complete set of SPARE PARTS is always kept in stock
in Sydi-y, which enables us to send by return mail any spare part required.
WRITE TO DEPT. B.
FORD MOTORS, 133-137 Castlcreagh St., Sydney.
Zaw Points
iSr inventors
Can I Obtain a Patent ?
The quickest, wav to ascertain this,
WITHOUT EXPENSE, is to write
to me describing your invention, enclosing a small sketch
where necessary. Nicety of drawing is not essetitial ;
all that is necessary at first, is to give me YOUR IDEA.
I will at once inform you whether the idea is patent-
able, and, if so, give the necessary instructions for
further procedure.
Persons desirous of obtaining really reliable advice or
information regarding Patent matters are cordially in-
vited to consult me personally or by letter. In all oa‘es
a careful consideration of their plans, an honest opini n,
and a prompt reply may be expected.
A. J. CALLINAIM, Patent Attorney,
Citizens’ Buildings, Collins Street, Melbourne.
FROM SOUTH AFRICA.
im
TWO TIPS with
OSPREY.
Black, White,
Cream, and Black
ipped with White
Length, 9 inches.
5-
The Bunch,
Post Free.
We make this Special Offer to
advertise our Ostrich Tips. Write
to-day. Send Postal Note.
Catalogue Free.
MILLERS FEATHER SHOP,
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY; also at
Corner of Bourkeand Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention The Bulletin.] [3
t~ DIURETIC
REM EDY
A CORRECTIVE
OF THE
URINARY
ORGANS
m
IT IS
ALSO
SPLENDI
tonic
4 o
Obr&mnh/e <?// Chrmists
' Sole Aust/v/asian Agents. 73 YORKST.SYDNEY
A a/
Why you should wear
99
All=wool unshrinK-
able Socks, Stockings,
and Underwear.
Because
they are the most comfortable all-Australian-wool wear:
they are absolutely unshrinkable: they are English Made.
The process imparts a soft, silky finish which makes
wear superior to all others.
Yet cost no more than ordinary hosiery and
underwear.
“&Z4072T Socks, Stockings, and Underwear for Men, Ladies, and Children.
In all prices. Of Men’s Outfitters, Drapers, and Stores. If your
dealer does not stock he can obtain it from his wholesale house.
In case of difficulty write for “ Jason ” booklet and name of nearest
Agent, to—
Jason Hosiery Co., Leicester, England. <i>
THE FOUNTAIN PEN
that fills itself and
cannot leak is British
made.
You know it by
reputation of course
—the Onoto—but are you using it
yourself—Taking advantage of its great
convenience?
No other pen is like it —no
other pen is always ready for
use—no other pen never leaks —
or fills itself from any ink
supply. Cleans itself in filling.
Don’t put off. Go to-day
and buy an
Onoto
Pen
Self-Filling - -
Safety Fountain
May be obtained from all stationers, jewellers, and
stores, price 12/- and upwards.
Write for free booklet telling all about it to Thos. De La
Rue & Co., Ltd., 365 Bunhill Row, London, E.C.. or the
Australasian Representative, Norman Baker, 50 ork
Street, Sydney.
Important those who require a huger pen with a very flexible nib, a
P sDecial model-the new G—has this year been put on the market.
It is exception al value for the money. Try this new Gat your statmueri.
Also ask for Ouoto lult—the best for fountain and all otlisi pens.
COLDS
SANACINE prevents the wasting and tearing of the Tissues that occurs in violent colds,
clears away the congested phlegm, and speedily allays irritation and inflammation of the
respiratory organs, and strengthens the linings of the throat and nose. Colds, Influenza,
Lung Weakness, Head and Chest Colds, throat weakness and more virulent forms
of colds immediately yield to the vigorous curative action of Sanacine. A few doses
taken in the early stages diminish the severity of an attack, and a rapid cure is assured.
Sanacine benefits
Russian Royal Family
A Court Official writes : “Sanacine was introduced
to the Russian Imperial Family, and they have found
great benefit from using it.”
SANACINE
NATURE S LUNG HEALER
An Invaluable Remedy for
COUGHS
COLDS
ASTHMA
BRONCHITIS
CATARRH
INFLUENZA
CONGESTION
HOARSENESS
HUSKINESS
SORE THROAT
WHOOPING COUGH
CHEST WEAKNESS
and all Disorders of the Lungs, Chest, and Throat.
Prices in Gt. Britain: Liquid and Tablets \l\i and 2/9. Sold by all Chemists, Stores, &c. in Australia.
Proprietors : -ASHTON & PARSONS. LIMITED, LONDON. E.C., ENGLAND
There is no rival to the Gillette Safety
Razor. It is the only razor whose
blades are so hard and sharp that
stropping and honing can be entirely
dispensed with.
British made and sold everywhere.
Write for " Hints on Shaving," sent post free. Mention this paper.
GILLETTE SAFETY RAZOR, Ltd.. 17 Holborn Viaduct. London. England.
Gillette
NO STROPPING NO HONING
Safety
Razor
Ghe BULLETIN POST CARDS
PACKET OF TWELVE 6d. PACKET CF TEN sd.


Weak
Digestion.
Hazeldell, Crossover, Gippsland, Vic.
Dear Sirs, — My little daughter was suffering from weak digestion and simply
wasting away. After taking part of a bottle of Angier’s there was a marvellous
change, and by the time it was finished she was quite a different child. She is
now able to eat and digest anything. It appears to have quite restored the
digestive organs and she is getting plump and strong, whereas before she was
just a skeleton. You are welcome to use this acknowledgment, as I would be
pleased to be the means of inducing mothers to try it for their delicate children.
(Signed) EMA NEALE-COX.
nulsioN
Angier’s Emulsion soothes and strengthens the digestive organs and greatly
improves digestion, assimilation and nutrition. Pleasant to take and a splendid tonic
and builder, it is unequalled in digestive disorders, lung troubles and wasting diseases,
whether of adults or children. The little ones in particular like it and do splendidly on
it. It makes them eat better, digest better, sleep better, and rapidly gain in weight,
strength and colour. Of Chemists, 1/3, 2/9 and 4/6.
A FREE SAMPLE
sent on receipt of 4d. postage. Mention this paper.
THE ANGIER CHEMICAL CO.. Ltd.. 7 Barrack St.. Svdney.
HOTEL DAN I ELL
(Latk imperial), Brisbane, Queensland.
iND ROYAL HOTEL,
Maryborough, Queensland.
A Home for Commercials and Others. - *!
AGENTS WANTED.
LIVE Representatives to control exclusive
territory for manufacturer’s line of High-
srrade Soaps and Toilet Articles. Sensible
assortments in beautiful boxes at low prices.
100 per cent, to 200 per cent, profit. Write for
Illustrated Catalogue.
E. M. DAVIS SOAP CO., Chicago, U.S.A.
Established 15 Years.
THE DEMON OF DRINK.
HAS HE
GOT YOU ?
Drunkenness, the curse of so many homes, has for
years baffled scientists, but now a remedy has been
found. Dr. Shaw’s Anti-Alcohol (Registered by the
Govts, of Vic. and N.S. VV.)is a certain cure—is harm-
less, and can be given secretly or taken voluntarily.
Advice Free. Write or Call. Dr. Shaw’s Establish-
ments, 54 Russell Street, Melbourne: 1161 Hay
Street, Perth, W.A. . i-irSstoSa ’ [2
Catalogues
in the house mean that the country
resident has the same choice in
buying as her sister in the city.
They mean better clothes at
no greater expense —often at less
cost.
We have a set ready to post to
you if you fill in this coupon.
i
Finney, Isles 8 Co.
LIMITED,
The Big
Block,
aNvasina
Cut Off Here.
Please send me your new Catalogues.
i‘
J
Mr. , Mrs. or Miss —.. . . ...
“ Bult.ktik.”
IN BANANA LAND
The idiocy of proclaiming Saints’ Days as
public holidays has now gone so far in
Queensland that on St. Patrick’s, St.
George’s and St. Andrew’s Days all the
Government offices are closed, and public
business is suspended. Naturally Civil ser-
vants are rejoicing, and some of them want
to know why the patron saints of Jersey,
Guernsey, Alderney and Sark are being so
shamefully neglected.
Queensland Government journals are dis-
covering that Deputy-Speaker Armstrong
is not a fit and proper person to fill the
shoes of the late J. T. Bell, and that Blair
or Douglas (Independent Oppositionists)
would occupy the Speaker’s chair with
credit. The meaning of which is that the
Denhamites have lost one seat (Rockhamp-
ton), and anticipate losing another (Dalby),
and are preparing to restore the balance of
power by caging any bird that is likely to
be a nuisance if it isn’t captured. Arm-
strong’s opinion of the manoeuvre would
make interesting reading.
“Politicus” on the old dispute:—
Thirty-six years ago I was at a meeting in Mary-
borough (Q.), held to protest against immigration,
and the speakers trotted out precisely the same
stories about the numerousness of the unemployed, as
“Whipcord” lately told. If the leading spirits at
that meeting had had their way, immigration into
Queensland (population at that time, about 100,000)
would have ceased right there. “Whipcord” asserts:
“The Bananaland Labor party is not against ‘white
defenders’ coming out. It welcomes them because it
knows they are badly wanted.” Yet a leading plank
of the Queensland Labor party’s platform has been
for some years—“ Stoppage of State-aided Immigra-
tion,” a plank confirmed by the last Townsville con-
vention. Does this look like welcoming “white de-
fenders” ? Out of 100 immigrants landed from the
Essex the other day, five were nominated (i.e.,
largely assisted), 89 were “assisted,” and full-paids
numbered exactly six. The Labor party is at liberty
under the present platform to welcome the six. In
the two years 1909-Y0 12,046 “souls” landed in
Bananaland, of whom no fewer than 10,421 were
liberally “assisted” by the State, or something like
86 per cent, of the total. Under the Queensland
State Labor platform, these 10,000 “white de-
fenders” would have had no financial aid at all, and
would have been lost to the State. If Queensland
can only absorb 6000 immigrants per annum as at
present (about one to every 110 square miles),
there must be a screw loose somewhere; but if it
is going to block 86 per cent, of that 6000 from
coming—-well, it’s Heaven help us in the future.
There is only one good title to any country, and
that is “effective occupancy,” and any party that
hinders “effective occupancy,” whether it be the fat
land monopolists or a misguided Labor party, is in-
flicting a vital injury on the Commonwealth. Labor
is coming into power in these States, and it can-
not be allowed to burk our most important problem.
I have no sympathy with the present ruling party
in Queensland, and I see quite clearly that that
party’s onlv hope of retaining power in the State
lies in the chance that Labor may make some car-
dinal blunder in broad national policy. And Denham
and Co. believe the Labor party’s rock will be
the Immigration Question. Wherefore the sooner it
reconsiders its official view on that question the
better will its chances be of sailing into the port
around which it has been hovering for years.
“Ecla” blames Eve again:—
This “living white” is just plain rot! I’ve lived
in most towns in North Queensland, and the bigger
the Labor vote the better chance an alien has to
grow fat. Croydon, Cloncurry and Ravenswood send
Labor men to Parliament, and have Chow bakers,
every one of them. Further, there’s not one pub in
50 in North Queensland with a white cook. And it
isn’t the Tory that keeps them going, either. In a
fight for early-closing on Croydon, writer helped to
picket an Assyrian crowd who wouldn’t close at 6
o’clock; and of the would-be customers whom we
interviewed there wasn’t one person suspected of
being a Tory voter. One woman, whose husband is
still a prominent light in the Labor movement, I
turned back three times. I’ve got her name ready
for anyone who calls me a liar —and he can have my
name, top, if he wants it. Likewise, the Hindoo
hawker is a regular caller at these Labor men’s
houses; and they don’t call if they are not wanted.
It isn’t the men’s fault; it’s the women’s. They
handle the money in the working-man’s home —and
they like the yellow beast. I know ; I’ve had a row
or two about it. I’m sitting on a chair now that a
Chow re-caned last week.
A SEASONABLE REPROOF.
MR. PUBLICHOUSE (with bitter sarcasm): "P’raps yer’d like an' ’am san'wich?"
MR. LOCKSLEY BUMMER (who has accompanied three pennyworth of beer with a bob's
worth of tinned fish from the counter-lunch): “ Not in Lent, my friend —not
in Lent. ”
Some of the Manchurian Russians recently
imported into Queensland take the palm for
toughness and stolidity. Recently a South
Queensland special train ran into one of
them who had gone to sleep on the line.
A discriminating cow-catcher picked him up
and heaved him aside with haruiy a bruise.
The condition of the special, however, be-
came the subject of departmental inquiry.
Bananaland’s Government has decided to
popularise the North by catering for
“sportsmen”—that is to say, people who
want to kill something. Trout ova has been
placed in some streams about Herberton,
and English pheasants are to be let loose
in the timber country. Gatton College—
the State agricultural institution —is at
present busy trying to hatch pheasants for
the other part of the murderous job. And
when it’s all done, the trout and pheasant
will attract the fellah who will be likely to
leave the beastly country when his holiday
is up, and write to the papers about the
beastly heat and the need for cullahd la-
bah.
Room! Room!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
From the acres broad of the virgin West —
“Room for the White Man, Room!”
From the tender green of the mountain’s
breast—
“ Room for the White Man, Room!”
The long Downs cry and the prairies call,
The big gums wail as they lurch and fall,
And a song goes up from the hilltops tall —
“Room for the White Man, Room!”
On ev’ry mile by the sea-beach lone,
“Room for the White Man, Room!”
On ev’ry peak that the brown hawks own,
“Room for the White Man, Room!”
From the meadows fair, and the Westland
sere,
From the ridges clothed by a rain-rich year,
The Voices rise: “Will the White Man
hear —
‘Room for the White Man, Room’?”
When the big guns boom by the Northern
Gate —
Doom for the weak race, Doom!
Ye will call for a fighting band too late
(Yet is there Time and Room).
In a few short years by the Austral main
In a death-grip locked with a heathen train,
Ye may call for help, aye, and call in vain—
“ Room for the White Man, Room!”
QUEENSLAND.
F. B.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, April 15, 1911.
My Dear Tiiargomindah,—
The Macgregor chieftain, whose jaunt
of 5000 miles to Cloncurry, Thursday
Island, the islands of the Gulf and other
parts of the balcony of Australia was de-
layed by dengue, had thrown off the illness
sufficiently to depart by the St. Albans.
The rest cure is expected to tune him up
for the local outbreak of ornamental triviali-
ties, without which no Coronation is com-
plete.
Talking of rest cures, Mrs. Mayoress
Diddams has gone to Collinton station to
fortify herself against the expected strain
of the Coronation ball, at which much gold
is to be sought on behalf of the hospital.
In a frantic effort to escape from the
combined attack of a motor-cycle and a
tram-car, I capnoned into the arms of Mr.
and Mrs. (Akenehi) Macleod in this city
on Wednesday morn. “What are you doing
here?” I demanded sternly. “Why aren’t
you trailing yards of orange blossom and
sprays of satin up a Sydney aisle, or having
a reception, according to the published
plans?” But the published plans were
wrong; the wedding happened on Monday,
and the Canadian mail brought the pair as
far as Brisbane, where the St. Albans called
in for them this morning.
Departers by the new Aberdeener, Them-
istocles, on Thursday, included the W. H.
Campbell party. Mr. Campbell signs the
cheques in the Western Champion office,
and Mrs. C. narrowly escaped the president-
ship of the Pioneer Club, which died sud-
denly.
Touching a mention, in Vandorian’s letter,
of the valuable industry of silk growing,
promoted with such vigor in this city: Mrs.
South, the prime mover, is a capable old lady
who, with no axe to grind, has made consid-
erable sacrifice to get things started on
proper lines. She has expended much cash and
time in taking attractive exhibits to coun-
try shows, so that the children might be
induced to give their spare time to the worm
that turns out soft silk and brings in hard
cash. Captain South, the lady’s husband,
trod the quarter-deck of many an A.U.S.N.
ship in the old days, but left the coasters
and wore the gold-laced garment that goes
with the command of the Government yacht,
till, a decade back, he began to take his
ease ashore. So far the silk-culture com-
mittee has received no help from the Govern-
ment, and although I’ve had my ear turned
in the direction of the Treasury, I haven’t
heard anybody even threatening to count out
tuppence.
Mrs. John Lemmone is in town resting
while John is nailing together the arrange-
ments for the coming Melba opera.
To-day the local wing of the army has
gone under canvas, and on Sunday Lytton
will be crowded with folk to see the guns
fired and the horses fed. There are also
Toy Scout camps to the right and left of us,
and the neighbors are in a state of frenzy
for fear of somebody being scalded at the
cook’s galley, or a “didn’t-know-it-was
loaded” episode.
Miss Edith Dickson, after two years’ trip-
ping in Eurone, has come back in the pink
of condition, even though she was in Italy
at the height of the cholera scare.
Mailbags and other unmistakable evidence
of the fate of the Yongala continue to come
ashore, but there is still no trace of the miss-
ing hull, and a vessel lying round in the
shallow waters of the North, inside the Bar-
rier reef, is an added danger in a locality
already overstocked with the commodity.
How about the naval authorities sending
along a survey ship to look up the address
of the wreck? It would be a rest for the
boys after their Easter exertions.
The death of Rev. T. Warham (“Lionel
Lit” of the Courier) is a distinct loss to
the literary community of Queensland. He
was an epicurean book-taster, who spoke
his mind, but always with the restraint of
kindliness. He was another sufferer from
dengue, and in a state of high fever escaped
from his bed and wandered into the ad-
jacent sea, where the shock of the cold
water was too much for an already weak-
ened heart.
Two other sudden passings have occurred.
A. F. Ulcoq, manager of the South Bris-
bane branch of the Q.N. Bank, who dropped
out on Sunday last, was a delicate man who,
in his many years in the Nor’-West, con-
tracted fever and other ills. He married a
relative of H. Rider Haggard, and was a
general favorite. Philip McMahon, still
another to succumb to dengue, was for
many years Curator of the Brisbane Botani-
cal Gardens, and held the position of Direc-
tor of Forests till he died. lie was a
man of weirdly theatrical appearance, but
great learning in his specialty. Mrs.
McMahon was a Miss Hendy Pooley, of
Sydney.
How would you like, my dear, to spend
28 years in a lighthouse—not six light-
houses, or even two, but just one single,
solitary, same-old pile? For myself I’d get
“the streaks,” like Kipling’s friend; but
Mr. William Picken, who returned to Bris-
bane this week, after spending that length
of time on the light at the lonely North
Reef, seems none the worse for it. Mrs.
Picken, who accompanied him, has been on
the reef (which is only 800 yards in length,
and seldom visited by a ship) for the past
four years. The lightkeeper had also two
assistants, and the only break in the mon-
otony of their lives was a month’s holiday
per year. Mr. Picken, who is 70 years of
age, has now retired from the Marine De-
partment’s service, and will spend the rest
of his days nearer to the clang of life.
Yours affectionately,
MARIO.
For every morsel of land offered in Central
Queensland there are a hundred sets of
teeth waiting to close on it. Barcaldine
had a Land Court the other day, when no
less than 106 tendered for a/ 12,000-acre
block, which was won by an applicant who
offered over 4d. per acre. At the Long-
reach Court there were 184 tenderers for
three blocks—two of 10,000 acres, and one
of 20,000 acres. It’s mainly the lure of
artesian or sub-artesian water that has
brought land-hungry southern people to these
parts, -v,'


WHEAT FARMS on
■ i#y TEDUC
EA9I lERFI9
-
m
■
%
f Mi
»
■• -
•*
: - : -"i : W:
,* *
■
*Rt
%
, ;
fte*y [.\rfcxfe
■ i
1
TO every man with good red blood in his veins the free, healthy, open
life of the country must stand out in marked and favorable contrast
to that spent amidst the drab and cramped surroundings and
monotonous routine of the office. Many men who are slaves to the desk
would gladly take up land if they had the means to do so, and if they
could avoid the physical hardships of the pioneer. Many would gladly
embark their sons on this career if they could do so at a reasonable outlay
and with a certain prospect of their ultimate success. It is for such as
these that we afford the preset opportunity of acquiring WHEAT
FARMS ON EASY TERMS. A very moderate outlay of capital is all
that is necessary. The blocks we offer now in many instances have
been under cultivation, and the remainder can be made ready for the
plough at an expenditure of about ss. per acre.
Homesteads have been erected in many instances, and tanks and dams
are ready for immediate use.
The reputation of the soil for wheat-growing is famous throughout
the State, and mixed-farming and stock-raising flourish in the district.
THERE IS BIG MONEY IN WHEAT-GROWING, and many
have found it a short cut to wealth and independence. The demand for
wheat never let's up —the market is always asking for more j and if you
work with a will you cannot help but win success.
RINGWOOD.
RINQWOOD ESTATE is amongst the best
of the land in the Parkes-Condobolin District,
which produced last year over two million
bushels of wheat, and this season will show a
further increase on that great total. The wheat
produced in this district is of the finest quality,
and is much sought after by flour-millers. The
Estate consists of 17,120 acres of beautiful
chocolate loam, capable of growing an immense
crop. It has been subdivided into 30 blocks of
about 500 acres each. The property is fenced
in rabbit-proof netting, and many of the blocks
are practically complete in this respect.
RINQWOOD is some six miles from Ootha
Railway Siding, by good road, and half-way
between Bogan Gate and Condobolin, the ter-
minus of the line. Some 3500 acres have been
under cultivation. The balance is either open,
park-like land, or is lightly timbered. The trees
have been ringbarked for many years, and the
land can be cleared for the plough for about ss.
per acre. SOME OF THE BLOCKS HAVE
HOMESTEADS, AND ARE READY FOR
IMMEDIATE OCCUPATION.
THE RAINFALL is ample for successful
wheat-growing. Records taken at the home-
stead during the past five or six years show that
the rainfall has averaged about 20 inches. The
Estate is well served with tanks and dams, no
fewer than eleven of the blocks being provided
for in this way.
THE TITLE.— The land is to be sold as
certificated conditional purchase, all conditions
fulfilled, and buyers may convert into Freehold
at any time. You get immediate possession,
and have all the advantages of a conditional
purchase WITHOUT A BALLOT.
The prices of this land as conditional
purchases range from 275. to 89s. per acre ;
or Freehold prices, including all moneys
due to the Crown, 465/ to**96s. per acre.
WHERE CAN YOU GET SUCH LAND
AT SUCH A LOW PRICE?
OUR EASY TERMS:
Ten per cent, deposit. No further pay-
ment for two years. The balance in 16
half-yearly payments or eight yearly pay-
ments, bearing interest at 5 per cent.,
payable half-yearly.
WHERE CAN YOU GET SUCH LAND
ON SUCH EASY TERMS ?
Read this testimony to
the Productive Properties
of tlie Soil s
Mr. W. S. KEAST, M.L.A., of Dandenong,
Victoria, was interviewed recently by Sydney
Evening News reporter, on the question of
Land Settlement. Among other things, Mr.
Keast* said :—“ In the Parkes district for
hundreds of miles, around such centres as
Forbes, Bogan Gate, Condobolin, etc., there are
millions of acres suitable for wheat farms. The
country is practically all cereal land, and adapted
for mixed-farming, with sheep-breeding. In
parts of Victoria, where the rainfall is 15 inches
(Ringwood averages 20), under dry-farming
methods we average 16 bushels of wheat to the
acre, and this district should produce more
than that.”
This is Convincing
Enough!
Send now for Plans, Schedule of Prices and
full particulars ; or, better still, call and talk the
matter over.
We will Refund Railway Fares for Inspection to and from the Estate to all Purchasers.
ARTHUR RICKARD 8 CO., LTD.,
84 B Pitt Street, Sydney.
AUCTIONEERS 8 REALTY SPECIALISTS.


“Ever since I was a little girl, thirty years
ago, I had suffered tortures from eczema in
one of its worst forms. The disease runs in
my family, and mine was of a scaly and
most disfiguring kind. The eczema formed
in round rings, and then scales all over
V
my face and limbs. I
have been smothered
from head to foot. 1 was
born in. Leamington,
which is famous for its
sulphur baths and pump
waters, and one would
think that after taking
the treatment there reg-
ularly as I did, the
disease would long ago
have been cured, but it
was not. 1 attended the
Hospital for years
and years, so you will see
Everyone in the town knew of my case. My
face was disligured very badly. A doctor
told me that 1 should never get rid of it. I
spent pounds in doctors’ bills, and I attended
several hospitals, but nothing did me any
good.
“Then one day an uncle of mine recom-
mended the Cuticura Remedies. I took his
advice, and commenced to use the Cuticura
Soap. To my astonishment an improvement
at once set in, and my hair, which had been a
complete mass of scales and scurf, soon
began to look in splendid condition. Then
1 bought a box of Cuticura Ointment, and
this cleared my skin wonderfully. In a few
weeks' time all traces of the scaly eruptions
had completely disappeared. Now my skin
is clear and healthy, and thanks to the Cuti-
cura Remedies I am completely cured of
eczema. All my neighbours were astounded;
they knew what a sight I was, and the manner
of ray cure by Cuticura Remedies was nothing
short of a marvel. The Cuticura Remedies
are worth their weight in gold, and one tablet
of Cuticura Soap goes further than four cakes
of cheaper soaps.” (Signed) Mrs. Butler, 17,
Francis Rd., The Cotterride, King’s Norton,
Birmingham, England, July 26, 1910.
Cuticura Remedies are sold everywhere.
Send to R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W„
fora liberal trial box of Cuticura Ointment
and 32-page book on the skin.
THE FOLLY OF DRUG
TAKING.
Do not take tonics for nervous breakdown.
There is only one way in which nervous breakdown
can be repaired, and that is by feeding the brain and
nerve centres with Lecithin in an active, organic form.
ANTINEURASTHIN does this, and actually builds up
the nervous system by administering to it its natural food.
If you suffer from brain fag, inability of concentration
of thought, want of application, dyspepsia, indigestion,
nt-U'algia, headiches, languor and irritability, send to
the wholesale distributor for Australia and New Zealand,
H. A. Goddard, 96a Eagle Street, Brisbane, Q., or 194
Vickery’s Chambers, 82 Pitt Street, Sydney, enclosing
ninepence in stamps, and a sample of Antineurast.bin,
with pamphlet dealing with nervous troubles, will be
forwarded to you by return of post. [1
Millars’ Karri S Jarrah
Co. (1902), Ltd.
We Supply—
JARRAH Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’ Scant=
ling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
72 BISHOPSGATE STREET WITHIN,
LONDON, E.O.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
6S£ PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in.all parts of the world.
* •
LOOK YOUNG
Dr. B. Alleys (u.s.a.)
Mexican Walnut Stain
Is the only Permanent and really
satisfactory One Solution Hair Stain.
None Genuine without Signature—ALFßED ARDLEY.
ALL CHEMISTS.
*
‘O'
~~0
$
%
tiAl
&
CP
WHOLESALE:
R. Reid & Co., Ltd.
Sargood Bros.
Alcock Bros., Ltd.
Petersen, Boesen
& Co., Ltd.
Etc.
RETAIL:
Everywhere, at 6d.
per tin—Black, Tan,
and Ox-blood.
o/?e
‘Boulevard.
The Latest
and
Smartest.
1
Will not
slip at heel.
PRICES—
-14/6, 18/6 & 21J-
Pumps and low-cut Oxfords are the fashionable
Shoes for Women’s wear. The great objection to
pumps in the past has been that they would slip
off the heel.
THE “BOULEVARD,”
an entirely new style, is so cut that it cannot
slip. It is decidedly smart, and we guarantee it
to stay where it belongs.
Prices 14/6, 18/6 and 21/-
Postage in Victoria, 9d. ; oilier States, 1/- extra.
Gazeka Shoe Paste, in Black and
Brown. Large Tins 6d.
Write for our Booklet “ Shoelight.”
LEEMING’S,
109 Swanston Street, Melbourne ;
257-259 Bourke Street, Melbourne;
303 Chapel Street, Prahran ;
1 & 3 Errol Street, Nth. Melbourne.
11l
Get
a
Dust
Coat
NO motorist should be without a good Dust
Coat. They are so useful for protecting
the clothing that, really, their small cost
should not stand between anyone in deciding
to purchase.
Perdriau Dust Coats are smartly cut and
well made of the very best materials. They
are priced within reason.
The CAMDEN is a very serviceable, single-
breasted Coat of mercerised cotton, with stand
and fall collar, ample skirt room, etc. Buttons
are removable. Price, 12/-
The GOULBURN is a first-class, stylish,
double-breast d, tailor-made Coat, in linen
crash, with motor back, fall collar, side
pockets, sleeve straps, etc. Price, 22/6.
Call and get one of the fine Coats to-day,
or order by mail, stating your height and easy
chest measurement over clothes. This will
ensure a correct fit. We pay the postage.
New Winter Price List free on request.
Perdriau Rubber Co. Ltd.
“The Best House for All Rubber Goods,”
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
EDWARD FAY,
The Big
Boot Block.
THE EASTER HOLIDAYS are upon us, and you want a
smart pair of Boots to harmonise with your new Suit. _lt is
essential you should be well shod when visiting your friends.
We are showing all the latest in English and American styles,
which you must see before buying elsewhere.
OUR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE IS WAITING FOR YOU.
Remember, all our goods carry the FAY guar-
antee. If you are not satisfied with your
purchase, we exchange the goods, or return
your money.
Country Customers should state the shape and
size required, and add 1/- extra for postage.
Parcels Delivered in the City and
Suburbs Daily Free.
Keith’s Best American Make.
Glace Kid, Round Freak n-tf
Toes, Hand Sewn Soles,
Corner PITT 8 LIVERPOOL STREETS, 8 at 716 GEORGE STREET, HAYMARKET, SYDNEY
“ Aberdeen”
Rugs.
“ ABERDEEN ” RUGS are essentially
Rugs of Reliable Quality.
Every feature in their material and work-
manship is unexcelled for sound value.
That’s why thousands of Stockowners
prefer them, and why every storekeeper
of note sells them.
Ask for the “ Aberdeen ” Brand. If un-
obtainable locally, send direct to us for
price list.
Smith, Copeland 8 Co. Ltd.,
204-206 Clarence Street, Sydney.
AGENTS:
QUEENSLAND : H. J. H. Ross, Edward Street,
Brisbane.
VICTORIA: J. Bartram & Son, King Street, Mel-
bourne.
S. AUSTRALIA: C. Whiting, Currie Street, Adelaide.
... - A ■
THE EDGE OF THE “PLUM” RAZOR
is like the shavinsr edge you have felt at a good barber’s.
Perhaps his WAS A PLUM. Anyway, the PLUM
is used by professionals, and that ought to be a good
enough recommendation.
We guarantee it for two years. 10/6 POST FREE.
The “PLUM”
RAZOR, Ift /g
Pose Free. lu / u
Have you a Mous-
tache? The Craig
& Aitken Trainer
shapes it nicely.
Worn at night.
2/6 post free.
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-
PLUM Razor, in Case, 10/6.
Pair in Case, 21/-
The Plum Razor Strop, 10/6 and 7/6
Other good kinds from 3/6 each.
Universal Shaving Soap, 6d.
Razoieo Lightning Sharpener, 6d.
We Grind and Set Razors, 1/- each.
All the above Post, Free.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
Established
30 Years.
A
N
FOOD
is for Infants and Invalids
and for those whose digestive
powers have become weakened by
illness or advancing age.
If the digestive functions, however weak, can do
any'work at all they should be given work to do to the
extent of their powers. In the easy process of its prepara-
tion the digestibility of Benger s can be regulated to give
this work with extreme nicety.
The “British Medical Journal” says—“ Benger’s Food
has, by its excellence established a reputation of its own.”
BENGER S FOOD. LTD., Otter Works, Manchester, England.
Bengers Food is sold in tins by Druggists , etc. , everywhere.
823
The Inky Way.
Despite differences of opinion as to the handiest
and most cogent methods, the pressmen of the Com-
monwealth are steadily combining to ask the news-
paper proprietors what they intend to do about long
hours and short pay. The Westralian men are the
latest to arise and demand “Whaffor” through the
medium of a newly-formed industrial union, which in-
cludes all the pressmen on the Perth dailyand weekly
papers. Having registered under the State Arbitra-
tion and Conciliation Act, they presented the pro-
prietors with a schedule setting out the desired im-
provements in working conditions and rates of pay.
The reply they got was that the time was not ripe,
or that Capital would be driven out of the country,
or that the constant harrying of commercial enter-
prise was becoming intolerable, or something. But
the pressmen declined to let the argument go at that.
The only fear they have is that the proprietors will
import men from the Eastern States to confuse the
argument, and all decent journalists are hereby urged
to stand clear. There are no other journalists.
* * * *
“Irish”: Has ever a one of yez ever reported a
trial from the dock —'I don’t mean as a prisoner,
but as a pressman? I did once, in Ireland. I had
been sent out to do an important case at Philips-
town (King’s Co.) Quarter Sessions, and found that
the only accommodation was in one compartment
of the large dock in the well of the Court, where a
small table had been placed. I was just getting as
comfortable as possible, when old Judge Curran
spotted me and stopped the proceedings. “What!”
said he, to the County Surveyor, who was custodian
of the building. “Is ut in this manner,” said he,
“that the Press is to be trated in my Court? What!
Wh-a-a-t!” Then, turning his rolling eye on me, he
said: “Come out,” said he, “and for the name,” said
he, “and the fame,” said he, “of the Press of Ire-
land,” said he, “sit by me side!” And I did, with
becoming dignity and calm.
“The Philistine”: I hailed T. D. Mutch’s an-
nouncement of the establishment of the Australian
Artists and Writers’ Union with joy, and fancied
that, on the union’s proposed affiliation with the
Trades Hall, the end of the trials of inky-wayfarers
would be reached. “Hassan” then gave the en-
couraging intimation that reporters on the Mel-
bourne dailies get six golden quidlets weekly.
Mutch extolled the virtues of his union, and quoted,
with much gusto, the Journalists’ Union of Broken
Hill as the first in Australia, and also alluded to the
Barrier Daily Truth. That particular brand of
Truth is owned by the Trades Hall; consequently I
expected that “Hassan’s” six quidlets would sink
into insignificance compared with the salaries drawn
by journalists in the employ of the Trades Hall.
But what do I find? For a start, this advt. in Mel-
bourne Age: “Journalist Wanted, Used to Cables,
Salary, £4. Apply by letter, with copy of refer-
ences, to Editor Barrier Daily Truth, Broken
Hill.” Truth itself adds: “Experienced man only;
no amateurs or learners.” I called in at the Age
office to see if the figure “1” had not been dropped;
but I was disappointed. I have since learned that
the Broken Hill Council (also bossed by the Trades
Hall) pays its dirtmen 13s. a day. For an “exper-
ienced journalist” it proposes to pay 11s. 6d. per
day. After that I became afflicted with doubts
about the virtues of affiliation with the Trades Hall
—at Broken Hill, anyway.
Catling, the time-honored editor of Lloyd’s
Weekly (London), has just given forth a book of
Anecdotage. He was born with a mechanical turn. As
a very small kiddy he went to see an execution;
then, coming back, he made an exact model of the
gallows, and hanged his sister’s doll. So a potential
Nosey Bob was lost in a mere editor. Sixty years
ago, ‘Llovd sometimes didn’t know where the money
was coming from to fetch out the next week’s paper.
He was seized with the idea of putting on the first
page “Edited by Douglas Jerrold,” who then had a
huge reputation. Jerrold took a thousand a year,
and took it easv. After his demise Lloyd found it
payable to print “Edited by Blanchard Jerrold,” who
took the money, and took it a good deal easier.
Catling, a regular employee, only saw Blanchard at
the office twice in 18 years! But his name was good.
PANTOUM OF A SUB-EDITOR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Where the devil is Jones?
See if he’s back? What’s the use!
If that ass Bletherby ’phones,
Tell him to go to the deuce!
See if he’s back. What’s the use
Having such fools in the place?
Tell him to go to the deuce. . . .
Idiot missed the last race.
Having such fools in the place,
Damned if it don’t make me sick ;
Idiot! missed the last race.
Get those blanked cables through—slide!
Damned if it don’t make me sick. . . .
Murders ? The world’s oozing blood !
Get those blanked cables through slick,
Brown, or we’ll be in the mud.
Murders ? The world’s oozing blood !
They’ll have to watcli the blanked Turk,
Brown, or we’ll be in the mud.
(Jimmy, this blanked pen won’t work.)
They’ll have to watch the blanked Turk ;
He’s out for trouble, I think. . . .
Jimmy, this blanked pen won’t work.
How have you goosed the blank ink ?
He’s out for trouble, I think:
Outragin’ Christians —-well, well!
(How have you goosed the blanked ink?) . . .
Exeter Hall will play hell.
Outragin’ Christians —well, well,
There’s no accountin’ for taste.
Exeter Hall will play hell —
Civilisation’s disgraced.
There’s no accountin’ for taste.
Damn it, that Jones is a sot!
Civilisation’s disgraced. . . .
Best blanky race o’ the lot!
Damn it! that Jones is a sot —
Must ha’ been drunk as a sow,
Best blanky race o’ the lot;
Just have to fake it somehow.
Must ha’ been drunk as a sow. . . .
Tip that a submarine’s sunk ;
Just have to fake it somehow. . . .
All the blanked world’s gettin’ drunk!
Tip that a submarine’s sunk
Out at the Heads by a barque.
All the blanked world’s gettin’ drunk. . . .
P’liceman’s been stabbed in Hyde Park.
“Out at the Heads, by a barque’’—
Story does seem a bit slim. . . .
P’liceman been stabbed in Hyde Park. . . .
Blanky unpleasant for him!
Story does seem a bit slim. . . .
Ring up the hospital, Gibbs.
Blanky unpleasant for him,
Gettin’ a knife in his ribs!
Ring up the hospital, Gibbs ;
P’r’aps the poor blanker ain’t dead.
Gettin’ a knife in his ribs
Makes a chap long for his bed.
P’r’aps the poor blanker ain’t dead.
Got this dam’ damp in my bones. . . .
Makes a chap long for his bed.
Where in the devil is Jones?
MAORILAND.
FRANK MORTON.


&
Born
!8?0
still
i *
strong
•,v<
<r
J
m
>vn i v
.%) v
y ,
ITO
/
r
47
C.
rr/.
r
/ /
cj
a
w-
/ IJ /
In square bottles.
Johnnie Walker
RED LABEL —over 10 years old
Johnnie Walker
WHITE LABEL —over 6 years old
From the days of the primitive
velocipede, the slow, careful
methods of producing
have never been altered.
GOLD
Everything about Johnnie
Walker moves as slowly to-day
as it did in 1820—except the
sales. The experience of ninety
years has taught us no better
way of obtaining supremacy
than the caramelizing of the
higher alcohols by seasoned casks —specially pre-
pared by a secret method —and the slow proc:ss of
maturing by age alone.
This experience, with ninety years of unbroken
family management, and the largest ageing reserve
of pure Malt Scotch Whisky in the world, makes
possible the Johnnie Walker guarantee shown
below.
Every
bottle
GUARANTEED SAME QUALITY
THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
-ZZmcZed.
Scotch Whisky Distillers, KILMARNOCK.
END’S ‘FRUIT SALT’
A HOUSEHOLD REMEDY FOR
All Functional Derangements of the Liver, Tempo-
rary Congestion arising from Alcoholic Beverages,
Errors in Diet (Eating or Drinking), Biliousness,
Sick Headache, Giddiness, Vomiting, Heartburn,
Sourness of the Stomach, or Constipation. It is
a Refreshing and Invigorating Beverage, most
Invaluable to Travellers, Emigrants, Sailors, and
Residents in Tropical Climates.
ENO'S ‘FJRUIT SALT’ assists the Functions of the Liver, Bowels. Skin, and Kidneys
by Natural Means. There is no doubt that, where it has been taken in the earliest
stages of a disease, it has, in innumerable instances, prevented a serious illness.
CAUTION.- Examine the Capsule and see that it is marked ENO'S ‘FRUIT SALT’
otherwise you have the sincerest form of flattery-IMITATION.
Prepared only by J. C. ENQ Ltd., ‘FRUIT SALT’ WOBES, London,
S.E., Eng., by J. C. ENO'S Patent.
Sold by Chemists and Stores everywhere.
Pre-eminent
as the Queen of Dress Fabrics is the
VELVETEEN,
with all its charming lustrous
finish; draping exquisitely to suit
the clinging fashions of the da;/ —
yet sold at a price within the
reach of all.
DO NOT TOLERATE A SUBSTITUTE.
Every Yard you buy
should be stamped L'OIH'S
NOW is the Season for
■=».
ssMSS.
Clipping Horses
Our illustration shows the simplicity of using the
“Number One” Horse Clipper.
A big horse can be clipped in 30 minutes.
You must know that clipping- improves a horse’s
health, prolongs his life and increases his value.
The “Little Machine that does Big Work'’ has
steadily grown in popularity throughout the
length and breadth of Australia, and we say
with all truth no horse-owner can afford to be
without one. Send for leaflet.
With Ball Bearings, 40/-
With Roller Bearings, 35/-
Sole Agents for New South Wales
and Queensland—
NOLPSWORTH, MACPHERSON & CO.,
252 George Street, Sydney.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Oi iginctl ar.d Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
Eng and—
-1/1 i, 2/9 & 4/6
Checks and
arrests Fever,
Croup, Ague.
The Ce3t
Remedy
known for
•COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITiS.
Acts like a charm in
DIARRHOEA, and Is the only
specific in CHOLERA and DYSENTERY.


Amusements.
|_|ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
“ ■ Lessee and Manager: J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45 SHARP.
Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON presents
“The Greatest of all Pantomimes,”
JACK and THE BEANSTALK
PLAN AT PALING'S.
Lessee & Manajrer .. J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING at 7.45,
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY
OUR MISS GIBBS.
RESPLENDENT REVELRY, SENSATIONAL GOWN
ING, GAY MUSIC and LOTS OF FUN.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Prices as usual.
CRITERION THEATRE. SYDNEY.
Lessee: FRANK MUSGROVE.
CLARKE and MEYNELL PTY., LTD., SEASON.
A TREMENDOUS SUCCESS.
”irst Production in Australia of tlie Most
Sensational Play of Modern Times,
THE WOMAN IN THE CAS H
Box Plan at ELVY’S.
A DELPHI THEATRE.
Direction Management, GEORGE MARLOW, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
The “ Remarkable and Sensational Bedroom Drama,”
which is the reigning boom of Svdnev.
THE BAD GIRL OF THE FAMILY.
As so ablv interpreted and gorgeously mounted by the
GEORGE MARLOW DRAMATIC CO.
One Succession of Brilliant Situations.
Popular Prices —3s., 2s. and Is. Early Doors 6d. extra.
Box Plan at Elvv's. Reserves 4s.
y M.C.A. CONCERT HALL, SYDNEY.
last Nights of
THE ROYAL 1 HAWAIIANS,
A HIGH-CLASS NATIVE CONCERT PARTY.
MAGNIFICENT INSTRUMENTALISTS. BEAUTIFUL
SINGERS.
UNIQUE, BRILLIANT, DELIGHTFUL.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
POPULAR PRICES—3s., 2s. and Is.
WIR I’ll BEOS.’ CIRCUS,
PRINCE ALFRED PARK,
SYDNEY,
EVERY EVENING.
EVERYTHING NEW.
ALL NEW ARTISTS.
LIZZIE, LIZZTE,
The Enormous Blood-Sweating African Hippopotamus,
the only Live Hippopotamus in Australia,
costing YVirth Bros. £1250.
MATINEES—WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS,
AND ALL-HOLIDAYS.
PRICES—4s., 3s. and 2s. Children Half-Price.
Reserved Chairs, ss.
BOX PLAN AT PALING’S.
THE LYCEUM..
—L EYERY EYENING AT 8
M ATI NECS-V/EDNESDAYS . SATURDAYS AND HOLIDAYS AT 2 30.
C PENCER'SIffATRIjeore (?
J PICTURES
rfHE SUPER.IOfZ TO /JLL OT/fEJZS. ra
Popular Prices Plaw at Palings.
The glaciarium, Sydney.
Opposite Railway Station—Where all Id. trains stop.
Also PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
BIGGER, BRIGHTER and BETTER THAN EVER,
WEST’S PICT IJ RES,
“BEST OF ALL.”
Proprietors—Wests, Limited. Mgr. Dir. : T. J. Wkst
DE GROEN’S VICE-REGAL ORCHESTRA.
6d. to 2/- Plan at, Nicholson's (Fee, 6d. extra).
SYDNEY SPORTS GROUND,
MOOR 15 PARK.
' GREAT COMBINATION.
RED INDIANS, COWBOYS AND
SKUTHORP’S BUCKJUMPERS.
INDIAN AfJLLAGE A REDSKIN CHIEFS, MEDICINE
MAN, BRAVES, SQUAWS AND PAPOOSES,
AMERICAN COWBOYS.
SKUTHORP’S GREAT BUCKJUMPING AND ROUGH-
RIDING COMBINATION.
TOMMY BURNS,
The World’s Greatest Bucking Horse.
£5O to anyone who can ride him for five minutes in a
hunting saddle.
WILD LIFE OF AMERICA AND
AUSTRALIA.
SPECTACULAR, SENSATIONAL, REALISTIC.
LOCATION—SYDNEY SPORTS GROUND.
ADMISSION—Is. ; Grandstand, 2s. ; Children Half-price.
Direction : A. A. Amusements, Ltd., and Skuthorp.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor & Manager— Mr. Harry Rickards
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS
Mr. R. A. ROBERTS, the Original English Protean Actor.
A Romantic Pirate Story, “CRUEL COPPINGER.”
MISS PEGGY PRYDE, London’s Favorite Comedienne.
MDLLE. YETTA, The Dancing Girl on the Wire.
Sure Success of one of America’s Leading Specially
, Artists, LEIPZIG, the Incomparable Conjurer.
TOM DAWSON. VAUDE and VERNE.
And a GREAT COMPANY Qf Established Favorites.
PRICES—3s., 2s. and Is. Plan at, Paling’s.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
EUNICE and ZENA, Instrumentalists.
THE ZANERELLAS, Equilibrists.
• FANNY POWERS.
PEREZOFFS (7), Comedy Jugglers.
COOPER AND LAIT, Comedy Sketch Artists.
AUSTRALIAN DARTOS.
COLUMBIA COMEDY CO.
FRANK HARWOOD, Descriptive Vocalist,
plan at Allan’s. J2U PRICES 35., 25., Is.
JHEATRE ROYAL,
CLARKE & MEYNELL’S
CO. in
MELBOURNE.
“ARCADIANS”
THE BELLE OF BRITTANY
FAREWELL APPEARANCES OF THE COMPANY*.
Platts at Allan’s. WUCES AS USUAL.
-|-HE KING’S THEATRE,
MELBOURNE
Sole Lessee and Manager : William Anderson.
A NOTABLE DRAMATIC EVENT.
WM. ANDERSON'S NEW DRAMATIC ORGANISATION
including H. R. ROBERTS and BEATRICE DAY,
RIGHT IS MIGHT
Box Plan at Allan’s.
PRICES-35., 2s. and Is.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager: J. C. Williamson, Ltd.
SATURDAY, APRIL 22,
J. C. WILLIAMSON’S NEW COMIC OPERA CO.
in a Revival of
THE MERRY WIDOW.
Reappearance of MISS FLORENCE YOUNG.
Plan at Allan’s. PRICES—S/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/-.
pRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING.
J. 0. WILLIAMSON Presents Eugene Walter’s Vividly
Conceived Story of Modern Life,
PAID IN PULL.
Cast includes
KATHERINE GREY, WILLIAM DESMOND.
PRICES AS USUAL. Plan at Allan’s.
%A# E S T’S PALACE, MELBOURNE.
the best WEST’S PICTURES, THE best
of ALL. LIMITED. OF ALL.
Managing' Director : Mr. T. J. West.
NIGHTLY AT S.
Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays & All Holidays at 2.30.
The Greatest Pictorial Enterprise in tiik World.
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
Any Moving Picture Worthy of Note always to be seen at
YVEST’S PICTURES. Complete Change every week.
Prices —(id. to 2s. Box Plan at Glen’s.
H E
GLACIARIU M,
EVERY EVENING
MELBOURNE.
AT 8.
J.4-N.TAIT S
PICTURES.
ALL THE LATEST PICTURES from Europe & America.
A COMPLETE CHANGE WEEKLY. Prices—2/-, 1/6,
1/-, 6d. Matinees— Wednesday. Saturday, All Holidays.
W IRTMS OLYMPIA..
.EVERY EVENING AT 8
M ati HECs -Wednesdays , Saturdays amd Holidays at 230.
C PENCER'SIiTfArREKOPE <?.
J PICTURES
« HUE SUPER.!on TO P!L OTHERS. <-»
Popular Prices -~t~ Puah as
LYRIC THEATRE, Chapel Street, Prahran, Vic.
EVERY NIGH t’at 8. MATINEE, SATURDAY, at 2.30
THE FAMOUS “NON-FLICKER”
PHOTOPLAYS
on Che Marvellous ‘Mack” Screen, together with the
Superb LYRIC ORCHESTRA. 6d. to 2s. Plans at
Allan’s, C. M. Read’s and the Lyric Theatre Caf6.
STRIKING EXPERIMENTS
AT THE REQUEST OF THE
LOCAL GOVERNMENT BOARD FOR IRELAND.
The remarkable feeding
experiments conducted in
the School of Physiology,
Trinity College, Dublin, at
the request of the Local
Government Board for
Ireland, prove that
BCVRIL
when added to a fixed
diet, has a body-building
effect equal to from 10 to
20 times the weight of
the Bovril taken.
DETAILS OF THESE EXPERIMENTS GAN
BE HAD UPON APPLICATION.
During the Progress of our GREAT REMOVAL
SALE we are offering the following
Usual Price, Sale Price
Double - Barrelled, Breech - loading
Guns, engine-turned rib. left bar-
' rel full choke, right modified, re-
bounding locks and pistol grip.
Trial £5 2 6 £3 12 6
Single-Barrel Duck Guns, large bore,
to kill at 100yds. Trial
Single-Barrel, Hammerless, Breech-
loading Guns, choke bore, excellent
stock. Trial
Double - Barrelled, Breech - loading
Guns with Greener patent wedge
fast cross bolt, choke bore, walnut
stock, pistol grip, patent cartridge
ejector. Trial..
Special Pigeon Guns, with patent
side clips, file cut rib, top lever,
choke bore, specially selected wal-
nut stock, Greener patent wedge
fast cross bolt. Trial .. ..10
Mauser Principle Rifles, 22 calibre,
kill at 300yds. Trial
50 5 10 0
3 10 0 1 17 6
510 0 ’ 417 6
00 7 10 0
15 0
13 6
Guns by All Makers In Stock.
Write -for Special Sale Catalogue.
ALL ORDERS FOR GUNS AND RIFLES DE-
LIVERED CARRIAGE PAID TO ANY ADDRESS
IN AUSTRALASIA.
iSmall Arms Co.
Gunsmiths &, Importers.
242-244 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE
HOTELKEEPERS !
We will Accept Half Your Present
Monthly Cordial Bill in Payment
of an AUSTRAL PLANT.
PERFECT SODA WATER for §d. per Dozen!
GINGER ALE and LEMONADE at 3d t
8S” 3000 MACHINES IN DAILY USE.
A Postcard will bring our latest Catalogue, post free.
ECKERSLEY 8 SONS, 3 Bond Street, Sydney.
Queensland Agents—ELLIOTT, DONALDSON & DOUGLAS,
108 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Richardson Cushion Frame, Anti-Jar Ball-
Bearing Roller Skates.
Used exclusively in all of the larsrest and most successful rinks in America,
and hv all the Champions of the World, fast and fancy. RICHARDSON
SKATES have held all World’s Records for ‘ii years. Write for Catalogue.
Tells how to open and operate Roller Rinks.
Richardson Ball-Bearing Skate Co., 311 Michigan Street, Chicago, U.S.A.
RICHARDSON
CHICAGO
STEVENS
SINGLE-BARREL GUNS
No. 90, formerly No. 105,
without Automatic Ejector.
No. 95, formerly No. 107,
with Automatic Ejector.
In 12, 16 and 20 GAUGES
ORDER STEVENS
FROM YOUR
DEALER.
Write for Catalogue to
ARTHUR H. HILL, Australian Represent-
ative for Stevens Arms and Tool Co.,
Box 86, G.P.0., Adelaide, S. Australia.
Send for latest Fire-
arm, Telescope and
Stevens-Pope Cata-
logues. [3
HOW I ENLARGED MY BUST
After Massage, Cold Creams, Wooden Cups, Electricity, Dangerous
Drugs and other Methods had all failed.
A WOMAN’S SECRET LAID BARE.
How I watched my bust grow in size, day by day,
and week after week, until 1 had obtained
A SUPERB DEVELOPMENT IN ONE MONTH’S TIME.
Special Arrangement for Readers of “ The Sydney Bulletin ”
to obtain full information FREE.
I will tell you how I obtained a beautiful,
large bust in fifteen days’ time and how you
may do the same. The treatment I re-
commend to you is exactly the plan I fol-
lowed myself, and which gave me a superb
development in less than one month. Until
I learned of the long-hidden secret of repro-
ducing the bust development which I enjoy
to-day, I confess that people had always
looked upon me as a woman with a poor
figure. My fc'lo'thes did
not set well, afid -I failed
to receive the admiratidn
which is so pleasing to
a woman. You can un-
derstand how anxious I
was to obtain a luxur-
ious bust development,
and consequently I tried
nearly all the methods I
saw advertised, but none
of them did me any good.
Massage and cold creams
made my bust soft and
flabby; wooden cups
seemed to have no effect
whatever; electricity
proved utterly useless;
and I believe the dan-
gerous drugs which I
took into my system did
m e more harm than
good. I grew more fret-
ful and nervous than
ever, and became abso-
lutely discouraged, for I
felt that nothing further
could be done, and I must
go through life with a
fiat bust, a poor figure,
and a nervous disposi-
tion. In the denth of
my desnair a friend of
mine, who had given a life-time study and
scientific research, suggested to me a plan
which was so different from anything I
had ever seen or used that I consented to
make one final trial. My health was so
poor that I admit being sceptical of obtain-
ing any results. You can imagine my sur-
imm.
<f ■/
< Jr
m
prise and delight when 1 noticed that my
bust was becoming firmer, and I watched it
grow in size, day by day and week by
week, until at the end of fifteen days, not
only the reflection in my mirror, but actual
measurements, proved conclusively to me the
wonderful enlargement that had begn pro-
duced. Those who had known me fob years
were astonished at the improvement in my
appearance. In less than one month
I was able to rejoice in
a superb development of
the bust, which surpassed
even my fondest dream.
I felt better and stronger,
my nerves were rested
and I took a greater in-
terest in life. I was
doubly astonished at
these marvellous results
because the treatment had
required so little time to
follow that I did not neg-
lect any of my regular
duties. Best of all, the
treatment had not made
me fat, but had only pro-
duced the development
which I had so long de-
sired. Such a wonderful
change from ugliness to
beauty may seem hard to
believe, but it is abso-
lutely true, as I can
prove, by those who knew
me before and after I fol-
lowed this treatment.
You can judge for your-
self, for I recommend
the same treatment to
you which I used
with such success.
I have arranged for full information regard-
ing this remarkable plan to be sent 'to all
readers of this journal who fill out
the coupon below and send it within
ten days to Madame Margarette Mer-
lain (Dept. 1024), 85 Great Portland Street,
London, W. Eng.
FREE COUPON for Readers of “SYDNEY BULLETIN.”
Cut out this Coupon and send to-day, with vour name nfonm
VT, RESTED NERVES and PERFECT HEALTH. This
Coupon is {food if used within ten days from the date of publication of
NAME
ADDRESS....


RHEUMATISM
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY.
GOUT. RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA, LUMBAGO,
NEURALGIA.
GOUT ANt>
RHEUMATIC
They Never Fall.
They Always Cure
Pills
The only true and safe remedy for Gout and
Rheumatism that has stood*the test of time
All Chemists and Stores at t/t sft 2/9 per box.
Proprietors. PROUT ft Co., 229. Strand,
London. England
GOUT
•' AWL-YOU-WANT.”
THE GEM SEWING AWL.
EVERYBODY CAN USE IT.
Repairs Bags, Belts, Straps, Harness, Boots, Shoes ; Sew*
2s* Posted.
(Awl, 2 needles,
i reel cotton.)
Carpets, Canvas, Blinds, Tarpaulins
etc., etc., with a LOCK-STITCH.
' Its immense value in repairs to Boots
and Shoes is now well known, and in
I repairs to Bags, Belts, Straps, etc,, it
I is the " Awl-you-want," Thread, from the
reel (which may be kept in one’s pocket) is
supplied continuously—a great advantage.
Apparent in sewing Carpets, Canvas, Blinds, Tarpaulins, etc:
Needles are interchangeable, extra ones can always be obtain-
Jd, Stout or Fine, Bent or Straight.
PRICE—Gem Sewing Awl (polished wood handle, brass
fittings, brass bobbin, 2 steel needles—l bent, 1 straight—l reel
prepared cottori), 2s. complete, post free. Extras: Cotton,
5d., post free. Needles (stout or fine, straight or bent), 4d. #
post free; 2 for jd., set of 8 for 2s. Send postal note to
STAR NOVELTY CO.. 229 Collins Street. Melbourne.
THE DAZZLES
W22E
LAMP
Best Pocket Lamp on the market. Instantly available-
press the button and a brilliant light floods forth. Can’t b'ow
out; no smoke, no oil, no matches. Powerful simple tyattery,
can be re-charged with water. Strong case, fits the hand and
fits the pocket. A wonderful demonstration of the every-day
utility of electricity, as light io quite safe near gunpowder,
gas, naphtha, etc. A novelty, and good fun—may be used
m a hundred mirth-provoking ways. Fitted with new .2-cell
battery (having 6 times the life of the old style 3-cell) and
new metallic filament lamp (giving a brighter light on less
current than the old carbon lamp). Lamp, complete. 55.,
post free. Extra cells when required, is. 9d. ; bulb lamps to
fit, is. 9d., post free. Scarf-pin lights, to attach, 3s. 6d. Send
postal notes. £
STAR NOVELTST CO., 229 Collins Street, Melbourne.
“KURLO "-Hair-Curling Fluid. Beaut ful
wavy hair is most admired. “ Kurlo ” produces
| most natural-looking waves or curls in a lew
days. Very little trouble ; no tongs or pins re-
quired. “ Kurlo ” curls are not affected by fog,
sea, air, heated ballrooms, etc. May be used
for Ladies’, Gent’s or Children’s hair. Neither sticky
nor greasy; makes the hair soft and silky. Bottles,
2s. 6a., post Iree, in plain wrapper. American Toilet
Agency, Box 466 G.P.0., Melbourne.
GRO-A-MO " forces growth of moustache and whis-
kers. Bottles, 25., post free, in plain wrapper.
American Toilet Agency, Box 466 G.P.0., Melbourne.
2S
BE
Medic* tor, *lz«
3) Inctae* lon*.
WHAT IS CATARRH?
CATARRH is inflammation of the lining
membrane of the nose and adjoining
passages. If this inflammation is not ar-
rested it invades the passages which lead
from the nose to the head, ears, throat and
lungs. It injures the sight and hearing,
destroys the sense of taste and smell, ren-
ders the breath offensive, breaks down
the affected- tissues, and consumes the
nasal cartilages, The discharge, passing
through the lungs and stomach, causes
dyspepsia, also consumption. Do you
want relief and cure? If so, try our
great remedy.
RAMEY'S MEDICATOR cures Catarrh,
Hay Fever, Catarrhal Deafness, Head-
ache, Neuralgia, Colds, Bronchitis, Asth-
ma. Write for booklet free, or send
Postal Note tos. for Medicator complete,
with 4 'months treatment, post free anywhere.
Address: Star NoYelty Co., 209-231, Collins Street,
Melbourne. (Box 466, G.P.0.)
THE DRUM
IN POSITION i
(INVISIBLES H
DEAFNESS
And HEAD NOISES Relieved bv
Using WILSON’S COMMON-SENSE
EAR-DRUMS.
A scientific invention entirely different
in construction from all other devices.
They have restored hearing when other
devices; fai_,ed ; and medical skill gave-no
relief. Soft, comfortable and invisible;
no wire or string attachment.
Write for Pamphlet. Mention this paper.
STAR NOVELTY CO., 29 Collini
Street, Melbourne.
OP
Big G
Borated Goldenseal
Compound
r A safe and simple remedy for 1
Bronchitis, Catarrh, Hay Fever
Inflammations, Irritations, ulcer-
ations of ALL mucous membranes
or linings of the noso, throat,
stomach or urinary organa-
AT CHEMISTS
Why not cure yourself
Treatl se with jach bottle
or mailed on request.
Thi Evans Chemical Co.
' Ciadnoali, Ohio,
U.S.JL
Superior to
INJECTIONS
iCUBEBS and
COPAIBA.
Cures the same
diseases without
inconvenience
in
48 hour*
m
Etch Canale bean the name
95ibendum s V)yre Jseetures, ffo. U.
There’s rubber for you!
The very finest rubber grown, pure Para, is the only kind
from which
Red Rubber Tubes
are manufactured.
Para rubber owes its exceptional durability and elasticity to
the chemical treatment to which it—and it alone—can be
subjected. That is why Michelin tubes never harden and are
more durable than the best grey tubes made.
You should always fit your Michelin tubes with
Bolt Valves,
and so, by dispensing with the necessity for using security
bolts, avoid much trouble and annoyance—besides securing
the great advantage of being able to fit or detach cover and
tube at the same time and with no other assistance than that
afforded by two simple levers.
All the Leading
Garages.
WARNING.—Don't buy
Michelin Tyres at less
than current prices. They
may be of old manufacture.
Purchase only from our
Agents.
imiiiiiimiw
/
i
Gold Aedal Paris 1900 « Grand Prize St. Louis 1904
KALODERMA
PREPARATIONS
F. WOLFF & SOfflf, Karlsruhe and London
Knlotferma Jelly
prepared with glycerine Si honey without
oil or fat, does not grease; is most
agreeable # efficacious for preventing and allaying irritation.
duos DiiuapoiDM
prepared with glycerine and honey, a
most refined and delicately perfumed
Toiletsoap.the leading soap for softening $ improving the skin.
Rice Powder
most popular and refined
toilet powder. Jc/' „<£/'
Rnlodermn Shaping Song
prepared with the renowned
Kaioderma Jelly undispu-
tedly the most emollient shaving soap on the marKet.
fl refined luxury at a popular price. jcT UcT jcT
Obtainable from all the leading establishments.
THREE WITCHES
CIGARETTES.
M
t
m
iwit
morbiss i
hree Witches
eioAurm® yesn
$ for 10
Londoa Had*. LT
HIGHEST GRADE.
6s per 100, Post Free.
MICK SIMMONS, SYDNEY.
Storekeepers and Tobacconists should
send for our Trade Lists.


OUR SPECIAL SNAPS.
mmsam
v:
C. H. Crawford’s D.8.8.L. Gun,
12- or 16-gauge, top lever, double bolt, 30in. barrels, -
left choke, pistol grip, walnut stock, scroll engraved, bar locks, nitrb proof, weight
of 12-gange, about 7£lb. ; of 16-gauge, about 6£lb. “
Greener cross-bolt. DELIVERED,
£4 12s. 6d.
Stevens' “Little Krag
22 Calibre Rim Fire, bolt action, blued steel
round barrel, 20in. long, walnut stock, steel • scroll ■ trigger
guard, V-sigbt, length over all, 36in. ; weight about 3glb.
Postage—l/6 N.S.W. ; 2/8 Inter-State.
18s. 6d.
SEND FOR OUR
Illustrated SPORTS,
FISHING and
TOBACCO LISTS,
FREE!
©
1 9
a
The “ Continental ” Combined Double
Barrel Shot Gun and Rifle,
30in. Krupp Steel Birrels, bar locks, cross bolt, the gun barrel full choke, 12-
and 16-gauge shot, 25/20 and 32 Winchester Rifle calibre, weight about 7ilb.
CARRIAGE PAID.
£5 10s
£
“ Winchester ” Single Shot
Rifle, 1904 Model,
for 22 short or long rim fire cartridges, 21in. heavy
i steel barrel, plain trigger, bolt action* ladder rear sight, length of rifle over-
all, 37iin., bead front sight, with patent alloyed tip,
which will not tarnish ; weight, about 4lb.
Postage—l/9 N.S.W. ; 3/2 Inter-State.
245. 6d.
MICK SIMMONS, Ltd.
Head Depot, HAYMARKET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches—Hunter St., Newcastle ; 273 Darting St., Balmain ; 197 Oxford
St., Sydney ; Church St., Parramatta; 311 King St., Newtown. [3
Schute, Bell & Go.
1- LIMITED
Wool Stores: Central Wharf. Produce Stores:
Quay. Offices :44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Do not se// Fat Stock,
but only Wool, Sheepskins,
Hides, Tallow, etc., and
Marsupial & Rabbit Skins.
Each head of the Company a worker
in theinterestsof their constituents.
Proceeds protected Trust Account
Bank of N.S.W.
GIVEN AWAY
For Correct Answers.
ac,“ 5, 1 ” C “” •* ■' “• Ml ‘™ b P """ <™ hereb y "ndenu,.
FIVE POUNDS
subject to the conditions hereunder :
Encouraged by the enormous demand for our TICXURE POST CARDS. wo have devised this simole
Method of advertising, with the object of making our name more widely known, and to introduce our
1911 Series. We expect by this competition of brains to make such an impression on your mind that
PICTDReVoST CARDS ab ° Ut “ 3 t 0 y ° Ur friends ’ attd the extraordinary value of our FINE ART
vn ALL WE ASK YOU TO DO IS THIS I
±iUm the missing letters m the following Puzzle :
O*R P**T C*R*S A*E T*E B**T V*L*E IN A*S RL A.
Your answer must be posted and addressed to the Manager of the Fine Ant Post Card Co *H„*„+p r *
street, Sydney and received by him, and must agree with our solution, lodged int he Bank of NSw'"
PRIZES WILL BE SENT PROMPTLY
With your solution to the above Puzzle (to which there is no entry fee), send us a Postal Note for <2 /ft
for which we will send you Free a sample packet of thirty (30) Selected and Assorted Post Cards and if
your solution is correct, we will also send you within a fortnight your prize of £5, and will ask’vou to
WE P CTTARA^ d R o i r J°r r s ~ f0 ! Car demand recommending them to your ,We„ds
Tf fhf^ A ®; A 1?™ E thls Competition to be a straightforward Competition of brains and work. A copy
of the right solution we have lodged with our Bankers (Bank N.S.W.). Py
Duenotice of the closing of this Competition will appear in this paper, but if before the dele „fti
closingof the Competition more than 100 correct answers liav, been received, One Hundred Cash PKzes
of £5 each will be awarded to those sending co-rect answers ii the orderin wh ; ch their
have been read by the Manager of the FINE ART POSTCARD CO. their answers shall
Should your solution reach us before the closing date, and be correct according to our conditio „ „ a
not be within the first 100, we will send you FREE A SOLID SILVER WATCH AND CHAIN Had ’ • d
Gentleman’s). No person will be entitled to more than one prize. adysor.
N.B.—Your solution is to be accompanied by attached Coupon which forms nart of this
and addressed to THE MANAGER OF part ot tftlS competition,
FINE ART POST CARD CO..
HUNTER STREET,
SYDNEY.
My Solution to your Puzzle is as follows
And I AGUES TO ABIDE BY THE ''N OF THE MANAGER
CARD CO., which I accept as final and legally b nding.
Signed *
Address
Date
OF THE FINE ART POST
What You Got
TRY
THE
EAGLE
Built hv men who know the
essentials of GOOD WORK.
The PERFECT PRODUCT of
practical experience.
Not What You Pay
COUNTS.
Brand
Footwear
Made from Australian Materials by Australians for Australians.
They meet the demand for STRICTLY RELIABLE and UP-TO-DATE FOOTWEAR.
They Will Satisfy YOU!
Obtainable from Leading MERCHANTS everywhere.
Sole Manufacturers and Proprietors —
The Davey Haliiday Company, Limited
Wholesale Only.
BRISBANE.
For your BOOTS and SHOES.
/o*CtfA"M| BOXCAR
SFOLJSHIN6 GLACE *[&«*.
Afm shall quantity with wtvsh
\ftU6TOAPOU9H TNCN FINISH
. \WITH PAD A* SOFT CLOTH.
Meltonian
PASTE.
in BLACK and BROWN.
The best and also the cheapest
PASTE POLISH on the market
for cleaning, polishing, and
preserving all kinds of Leather
Boots, Shoes, Harness, &c.
OLD EVERYWHERE.
Made by the Manufacturers of the Celebrated
“MELTONIAN” BOOT POLISHES.
E. BROWN S SON ( B '“ k S?n;teiu”:» Pl " l ’ h > ™. LONDON and PARIS.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1908 edition, 2s 6d posted. Mbrrie
England, 6d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is-6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Quadrille Call Book,
2s. Adventures of a Flirt, Is. 3d. Parlor Thicks
and Games, Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
Is 2d. All Tiie Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. Howto
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
lOs 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for mi nerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is 2d post.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, Us. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ss. Not - Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art Of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain for the
British, 6d. How to Read Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is (kl.
■
i
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR "PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of youngandold, but about
which they feel a delicacy inconsulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
TO THE. COMMONWEALTH.-*!
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamut, nits’ Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Plat Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamf on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle's
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator., Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Easv, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s Gd.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d.
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Elements op Social
Science, 3s (id. How McDougall Topped the Score, &
Other Verses, Is 3d. The Gay Count,'ls 3d. French
Self Taught, is 2d. Wannax’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s fid posted. Virile Powers ok Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heftameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Nigiit, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid,
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. Established 25 Year s .
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GDI FROH THIS A DVT.
♦
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Ur, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d Dost. Ur. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 93 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made East, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions of the King,
Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. 6d. Secret
History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. "Vest Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s fid post.
INGERSOLL’S WORKS, Bd, 2S. HOW TO READ HEADS
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s fid posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
ls2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy. Is post. lOONew
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid: (wby pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.


Liver Trouble
Tortured by Sickness and Back Pains—Kidneys
Affected-Doctors’ Treatment Proves Useless.
(F ,
MRS. DREW, who owes
her health to Bile Beans.
“ J some time I was a martyr to that awful
I affliction, livercomplaint,’’says Mrs, Jane
Drew, of 355 Fitzroy Street, Fitzroy,
Melbourne. “The pains in my back were so
terrible that I was unable to stoop to pick up
anything, and my kidneys were also affected.
I could not keep any food down, and used to
have frequent bouts of vomiting, which made
me very weak and quite unable to attend to
any of my household duties.
"I FELT RUN DOWN AND FIT FOR NOTHING,
and to make matters worse, at night 1 was not
able to get any sleep. Yet during the day fits
of drowsiness would overtake me, and I would
fall off asleep should I sit down, my liver was
so sluggish.
“ Doctors’ treatment and medicine did not
have the desired effect, and 1 continued to
suffer until Bile Beans were recommended to
me. Acting on some friends’ advice, I com-
menced taking them. Soon after starting with Bile Beans I noticed an
improvement in my health. The back pains ceased, and I could eat and
enjoy my food without having fits of vomiting after. I PERSEVERED
WITH BILE BEANS until I was restored to complete health.
“ Bile Beans are mild in action, and completely eradicate all the evils
of a sluggish liver. To-day I feel bright and happy, and am no longer a
martyr to pain and sickness.”
The Standard Family Medicine.
BILE BEAMS are a proved remedy 'for all liver and stomach disorders, piles,
headaches, constipation, biliousness, indigestion, bad breath, nervousness, J
weakness, nervous
debility, loss of en-
ergy, brain fag, less
of appetite, anaemia,
and are a grand tonic
for weak, weary,
worn-out women.
Sold by all chemis.s
and stores at Is.
per box, or large
family size (contain-
ing three times the
quantity). 2s. 9d.
CZ
z>;
file
eans
FOR
l • / • r «/n
uiousnes,
Beauty’s Favourite*
The article which excels all others
in improving' the beauty of the skin
is naturally and deservedly beauty’s
favourite. This has been the
acknowledged and honoured
position held by Pears’ Soap for
nearly 120 years. It won, and has
maintained that position by virtue
of its complete purity, and by the
possession of those special emollient
properties which soften, refine,
and impart natural colour to the
skin. No other soap possesses
these qualities in such a
eminent degree as
PEARS
Matchless for the Complexion.
The Sou’-Wester.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WHEN you’ve loaded coal at Kembla
down to Plimsoll-mark, or more.
And the coal-dust you have swal-
lowed makes your throat & u d
nostrils sore,
When you’ve slipped the standing moorings,
got the hatches battened tight,
Then the grim Sou-Wester ’waits you to t e
west of Gabo light!
Blow! Blow!
See the black coal-freighters go!
Flooded decks, and cranky engines, racing
fearfully below! .
And you think of wife and kiddies, and the
back rent that you owe,
When the grim Sou’-Wester meets you west
o’ Gabo.
When you feel the old tank stagger, when
she ships a lumpy sea,
And you Wonder what those lessons were
you learned at mother’s knee;
Then you fear .Votir chance of Heaven is not
worth a moment’s skite,
For Hell waits an the Sou’-Wester to the
west of Gabo light!
Blow ! Blow!
Every shudi'inim must know _
That feligioh Is for owners —sailors cake
is mostly doiigh!
And the patsous bray for owners, for the
plate it heeds a tow,
While the fierce Sou’-Wester whistles west
o’ Gabo.
When the, gale is kt its highest, and the rain-
squalls bite and sting,
Your sea-boots sqUelch out water, and you
curse at everything
Till you’ve Used Up all your language, cur-
sing fiercely day and night,
When yoU fight the d—-d Sou’-Wester to the
west of Gabo light.
Blow! Blow!
Hear the stokers’,language flow!
Lots of water in tile stokehold, and it’s swill-
ing to find fto!
And you try to fob a greaser of the curse
you do not know,
When the bold SoU’-Wester rages west o
Gabo!
When youVe battled to Cape Everard, and
one hour means a mile,
Apd you’ve got the “pond” before you, right
as far as Cliffy Isle,
With a falling “glass” to warn you, and no
anchorage 1U sight,
Then the Merciless Sou’-Wester knows you’re
west df Gabo light!
Blow! Blow!
’Tis a solid rdw to hoe!
Living mostly under wafer —Bill and Jack,
and Tom .and Joe!
And ashore? It’s “Bhynken sailors! Oh!
ths tbrhibhes! Aren't they low?”
Aye, the gay Soti’-Wester chuckles west o’
Gabo!
When you’ve cfosSed the “pond” with safety,
and the stin shifies once again,
And the sea has lost its courage, then you
feel “as right ks rain”;
And you Care hot if “bad weather” lasted
right across the Bight,
And you scorn all fool Sou’-Westers living
west o’ Gabo light!
Blow! Blow!
(We are part of one big “show’Ht
For this life’s a fire of trouble —
Biti ihe nurtoe the afterglow!
And the Sailor’s life’s a rough one, up on
deck or down below.
Still the hard Sou’-Wester howleth west o
Gabo!
Yiti'O&lA.
ALBATROSS.
It Being the Code of the Senhor.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
BAUKE, whom they nicknamed Tongue
o’, the Islands, wab the most skilful
torturer in all that Polynesian group.
And the affair of the Sefihor was his finest
effort, as well as his last, for the European
strain that had descended to him fropi his
unwilling grandmother gave him a nice idea
of the result of his action upon the Sefihor, The
Sefihor’s action upon him was a later story.
For the Portuguese blood - that had earned
the Sefihor his name had once been that of
great hidalgoes,. whose women - had been as
remote from breath of reproach as their
bowers were remote from every-day life. The
Portuguese had brought a little of this
aloofness into his life when he married,
though the girl of his choice understood little
of it.
She was the full-lipped daughter of an
Irish beach-comber, who had once been
something better. The Sefihor had noticed her
first because of the misery of her life, and
had liked her next 'because her dark beauty
reminded him of the women of his own land.
Afterwards he came to love her, and the rea-
son of love no man knows.
At-first she had thought it delightful to
have so romantic a husband, for he had seen
much of the world and of men in bis thirty-
odd years, while she, in her twenty, had
seen almost nothing beyond the isle where
her father dragged a scattered existence from
the sea.
But afterwards the romance of the new
loneliness, which she had exchanged, for the
old one, palled on her, for the Sefihor was a
jealous husband, and he built his bungalow
far out of the track, on the wildest coast-
line in all those miles of sharp-toothed reefs.
So Rauke had a chance to pay the grudge
he owed the Portuguese.
Time had been when the Sefihor, for the
sake of the white blood in Ranke’s veins,
had made something of a companion of him.
And Rauke, if truth were known, probably
carried more weight with his tribe than the
chief himself.
Now, in his new-found happiness, the
white man forgot Rauke, who nursed a bit-
ter resentment, as he went sulking inland to
his despised people. But the copra had to be
sold, and the Sefihor certainly gave the best
price, and the tribe would have murmured
even against Tongue o’ the Islands if he had
interfered with the legitimate course of
trade. As it was, he had a hard task in
winning the elders over to his master scheme
when at last he; evolved it.
The young bucks' thought it excellent fun
to steal to the qpast, and carry off the Sefi-
hor’s bride while her husband was away on
some thirty-hours’ trading.expedition. (On
anything over two days his wife accompanied
him.) They raked up a couple of canoes
and pulled to sea with their prisoner, leav-
ing very obvious tracks of their departure
behind them, and so swept half-way round
the island: There they quietly landed, and
cut inland. It was an excellent false trail
that they left behind them, and the search
would be among the adjacent isles. Rauke
pointed this out to the hysterical lady,
whose brain was still reeling from the sud-
denness of a night attack, killing of her
three or four native- servants, and her own
abduction.
Rauke assured her of his devotion, and
mentioned that it would grieve him inex-
pressibly to have to kill her, should her hus-
band by chance stumble on the place of her
concealment with a punitive expedition. She
had mentioned the probability of such a
thing as a last piece of hopeless bluff.
The quarter-caste seemed content for a
while after her capture. True, he made a
great point of giving her up to the chief,
who was a toothless dotard after all. But
he reserved the next right of succession, and
he somehow got two wives and three pigs and
a new grass hut out of the deal, so on the
whole he did well, and could afford an extra
pair of bone earrings. They decorated the
white woman, too, with bone earrings, and
necklaces, and feathers, and shell bangles
and anklets. Rauke’s white blood saved
her nose from ornamentation.
Then, one night, after some three months,
the chief’s favorite was missing, and the
toothless one bewailed the loss of his shells
and his white wife, and his youth, and many
other things. But he hadn’t the faintest
guess as to what had really happened. If
a knowledge of the desperately rash and fan-
tastic thing which Rauke had done had come
upon him, he would have wailed with great
bitterness, and then he would probably have
clamored to his young men to burn Rauke
alive, and after that he would have got drunk,
and, perhaps, died of fright. As it was, he
was only a good deal worried, but hoped
for the best. And he was still doing it a
few days later, when something happened to
liim. ,
Rauke’s revenge was on the Senlior, not
his wife. So he had sent Maluka, the dumb
boy, on an errand to the coast. Now, the
great good of Maluka was that he was
dumb, but not deaf. His tongue had been
extracted, or rather clipped off, by the tooth-
less chief in a fit of petulance over some
ill-cooked plantains. Therefore Maluka was
a useful second in the scheme which was
afoot.
For word had come inland that the Sefihor
was back from his tenth or one-hundredth
fruitless search for his lost wife, and was
living at his bungalow.
It was a moonless night when they
reached the coast, and the light in the bunga-
low burnt through the blackness and the
mist creeping up from the hollows. Away
inland there Rauke had set his distant stage
carefully, and the dumb man had orders to
wait till late at night before taking the
woman back.
A mile or more from the seaward side came
the lazy drone of the waters grinding on the
coral, and the swisli-swash of the just-
stirred pandanus thatch was regular as the
ticking of a clock.
Maluka signed to the Sefihor’s wife to wait
for him. He did it with a significant ges-
ture of upraised knife. Spirit-crushed and
obedient, she cowered almost in the shadow
of her own home till his return.
It seemed an interminable time, and she
fell to counting the flop-flop of the dried
leaves falling in various places. The reitera-
tion of every sound got on her nerves, till
at last she opened her mouth to scream.
Then, remembering Maluka, she refrained,
for Maluka was silent-footed. A half-arm’s
length away, in utter stillness, you could
not hear him breathe.
Once she reached up to pluck the foolish
ornaments from her neck. Then, afraid
that her gaoler might miss them, she
crouched miserably, and waited for the dumb
savage to give her leave to go to her hus-
band's arms. Ah! surely he would repay
her for all this misery.
The mist sequined her half-bare body over
with wonderful fairy effects, like the decora-
tions of a pantomime queen, and the cold
of near midnight gripped at her throat with
icy fingers. She fell to undoing one of the
two long plaits of hair that hung to her
waist. She had half re-plaited it again
when the dumb man’s touch on her shoulder
startled the ever-ready shriek from her. He
nipped -a tiny piece of flesh out with his fin-
ger-nails, very scientifically on the whole,
considering his lack of knowledge of anatomy,
and dragged her with him. He left her
before the house, and melted into the black
shadows.
There was a light on the verandah of the
far side of the bungalow. The Sefihor was
standing there, gazing seaward, and dream-
ing God knows what dream of his lost wife.
“Miguel!” The cracked little noise in
her throat sounded ridiculous to her. The
Sefihor turned sharply at the unbelievable
sound of his name, and stood sharply out-
lined in the patch of light outside the open
door. She came up with the long, easy
stride her .forced marches and loose, barbar-
ous clothing had taught her, and with some-
thing of a confident boldness, it seemed to
the half-dazed man.
“Miguel !” she said again. He staggered
back towards the door-jamb and stared at
her, unrealising and incredulous as he noted
the savage earrings and feathers and sharks’
teeth and the foolish shells about her. Truly
Tongue o’ the Islands had forgotten nothing
when he charged Maluka to give the woman
up in all her barbarous finery.
“I have come back —oh! aren’t you
glad?” she begged, lamely. Her Portu-
(Continued on next page.)


BACKACHE -A SIGNAL OF DISTRESS.
'' rsfxiH' ■
A Warning That Must Not Be Ignored.
Pain in the back is the kidneys’ signal of distress. If this
timely warning is ignored, kidney disease silently fastens its
deadly grip—for kidney sickness first shows itself in pains and
disorders in other parts, and the real cause is too olten hidden
until fatal Bright’s disease or diabetes has set in. Suspect the
kidneys if you are rheumatic and nervous or have lame back,
painful, too frequent or scanty urination, weak heart, dizzy spells,
headaches, bloating or neuralgia. What you want is a special
kidney medicine —not an experiment, but one that has stood the
test for years. DOAN’S BACK AC FIE KIDNEY PILLS
relieve weak, congested kidneys- —cure backache —regulate the
urine. They are u£ed and praised all over the civilised world,
Sydney Proof.
Mr. R. Spring, Ross Street, Parramatta, says : —“ I make the following statement so that
other sufferers may know that there is an unfailing cure for backache in Doan’s Backache Kidney , »
Pills. Off and on for many years I suffered from a bad back! I suffered torture ; pains would
catch me across the loins, and I could not-get my back straight. I was frequently laid up for days,
at a time. I consulted doctors, but their treatment was ineffectual. I used dozens of repnedies,
but it was only waste of time and money. I was advised by a friend to try Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills, and sent off for some. This wonderful remedy cured my aching back. It is grancf
to be free of backache, and I am grateful to Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills for my cure.”
Five years later, Mr. Spring says :—“ The above statement is true every wprd, anpl I can no\\j
add the important fact that lam still well to-day. Doan’s Bqckache Kidney Pills deserve praise \
I will always recommend them.”
m
vji PijctuN: j
31N 4 i
ie
s
or
Em
s
m
DOAN'S
Backache
Kidney
PILLS.
At all Chemists and
Stores, 2jg per bottle
(six bottles, 15/j) ;
or from Foster-
McClellan Co., 76
Pitt St., Sydney.
5V^ se ., llus band stared at her unwinkingly.
»I\° Ught W T m Petrified with the shock of
was Rauke,” she said, ex-
flnJa n gly ' 1 >^ e took me aw ay.” A hot
\f;JLi bu ? nt her , from head t 0 heel. “Oh,
ri] e t wanted them to kill me — indeed
_ dl {\ - f 9? ul( i a t help anything, dear. Indeed I
~ She realised suddenly that she
a JL pleading like a criminal, and her pride
stitteped per a moment. “If was not my
rauit, and after all there is some good in
ltauke, tor he sent me back to you in the
end. We helped me to escape, and gave me
a guide, and he sept you me, and —and—-
rus compliments ip memory of your friend-
ship, Yes, that’s what he said !” She had
never understood her foreign husband, and
now she began to whimper with pain and
u ft j feftr and weariness. After all,
she had endured much, and be was chill-
ingly silent.
“ArenT you glad?” she demanded again,
half crying. Of course, he would hold her
m his arms presently, and soothe her, and
whisper sweet delirious words of joy when
he realised the matter fully.
And so he would had the woman been
any other but liis wife. His mistress, or
Ins triend,. or his sister —any other woman
in the universe he would have comforted,
but, because he set his wife above all the
world, she sinned in his eyes by remaining
?> 1’ * ov Sefihor knew the calibre of
ltauke most thoroughly, and the sordidness
or the compliments accompanying the act
of was as dirt in his mouth.
I I couldn’t help it,” she muttered
again, “I struggled and pleaded, God
knows a great tearing sob stopped her
abruptly. “Miguel! speak to me—be kind
to me—or I shall go mad,” she demanded,
hysterically.
• .^ le Sefihor stared at her stern-eyed
in bis jealousy. “Why never kill yourself?”
he cried, and his rich voice was sharp and
high as a woman’s. “You could have
starved. I been worship you dead for a
saint, but I can’t worship you alive. You
are dead that I love.” His English was
unaccustomedly twisted and broken in his
excitement.
He came towards her at last, but now of
a surety it was the Sefihor who was mad,
and the screams that fear of Maluka had re-
pressed broke loose under the new terror.
“One little prayer,” he said, “and
then you are for always my beautiful saint
in Heaven. That better than my dis-
honor’ wife on earth.”
But the girl was too frightened to pray,
and the Sefihor had had little use for prayers
in that full-lived life of his. He had al-
ways left such things to women.
“Miguel! Jesus!” she coupled their
names together in meaningless blasphemy, as
she turned to escape from that pointing
muzzle. But the Portuguese was the finest
shot in the islands, and to-night, of all
times, when he fired for the sake of his
foolish “honor,” he did. not miss.
After all, Eauke was robbed of much of his
revenge, in that he did not see its consum-
mation. But to the Sefihor his wife had
never before seemed so beautiful and worthy
of worship as when she lay as a martyred
saint at his feet.
LILLIAS GORDON.
The Preparations of Slavin.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ 1 EKE you, Ted, run the rake over
I I the ground there. I don’t like no
hay wasted. See, Bobbie, there’s
some the fowls has scratched out be the side
of the barn, an’ some in the bottom of the
waggon. An’ there’s some shed oats there, too
—good bit o’ horse-feed, that. See it ain’t
wasted, Hi, Molly, fling over that hay-
band- Confound yer, carn’t yer . reach the
tarpoliu! It ain’t, down enough on the
west side —the weather-quarter. There,
you, Maggie, shin off and tell mother to ’ave
some water hotted; I’m nearly ready to
’ave me clean-up. And I want tea be
8, so’s to git to Dwyer’s before dark. If you
kids had flung yourselves round, I’d ha’ been
off be now, hang yer! Tommy, you take
a handful o’ hay and a halter and ketch
Diver for me. Kick! He won’t kick yer.
Or if he do kick, kick ’im back.”
“Evenin’!”
Slavin paused long enough from twisting
a corner of the tarpaulin to nod to the
Stranger, who loafed, with a half-quizzical
smile, on his horse by the fence. And yet it
was hardly a pause, for Slavin improved the
otherwise wasted moment by dashing sundry
straws from his shaggy beard. Immediately
he was tearing away at some loose stuff at
the far end of the stack that to his eye
spoiled its symmetry. He had not listened
for the responsive “Good evening.” How-
ever, as it happened, the Stranger contented
himself with a nod anywhere in the direction
of the stack, being in a mood evidently to
observe rather than to talk. Slavin worked
rapidly round and round the stack, clawing
down the loose straw to arm height, or be-
low the tarpaulin that was thrown irregularly
over the stack. As he went he shouted injunc-
tions as to “clearin’ up,” and “takin' care
of the straw,” and other things, “I carn’t
go away with an easy mind, as long as
things ain’t straight and safe. I’m not that
kind. Casey, now, he takes his spell leavin’
things nohow.” Then there was more claw-
ing.
“Hi! is the fountain hot, and the tea
ready ?”
The Stranger looked sideways along the
fence to the figure that answered Slavin.
Slavin was already again half-way round
the back of the stack, and the Stranger got
the answer —“Yes, Dan; and your clo’es laid
ready.”
The watcher from the saddle beheld the
thinnest, brownest woman that ever God’s
Australian climate, and man’s hard work,
turned out. She had, like the woman of
Wordsworth’s ditty, “a baby at her back
and another at her breast.” Also one at
her side. Even a lover of the drab in life,
like the old poet, could have done little with
Mrs. Slavin in poetry. She was plain,
weary, and dirty, as well as thin and brown.
The lounger in the saddle wondered idly
what sustenance the shrimp of an infant
that had the front place on the mother’s
person might be getting.
“I beg your pardon.” He realised that
the brown slip of a woman had addressed
him. “Slavin’s a tidy man, a great worker.
He don’t leave no litter when he goes
Stop that,” she broke off, speaking to the
tiny one by her side.
“No, I suppose nor. Yes, a tidy man,”
His answer was vague—unsatisfactory, he
realised, as a reply to the woman’s terse
statement. But Slavin, reappearing round
the stack at the moment, looking like a
frowsy madman, all straw about the upper
part, and his lower limbs jerking about in
a pair of perilously-fastened pants, had
rather unnerved the rider.
The lady was for monologue apparently,
and did not heed his vagueness.
“Without the kids’ help he couldn’t of got
away this season. He r s that perticler, is
Slavin, to have everything redded up first.
Without the harvest safe he wouldn’t of
went at all.” (“Hold up!” to the urchin
at foot that dragged her skirt.) “It’s his
one treat. It would of been a shame if”
A roar from Slavin turned their eyes his
way. “Is Tommy got the horse yet?” he
demanded, still clawing the. stack, and spit-
ting the taste of mustard seed out of his
mouth.
“Yeh.”
Slavin, emerging presently, like the moon
from eclipse, from the opposite side of the
stack, poured out instructions meant for
wife and children indiscriminately. “Up at
4, no later. Dy’e hear? Milkin’ over be
7. See to that, mother. You, Bobbie, I’ll
skin yer when I come back if them weeds
ain’t cut down in the crick paddock. And
mind the calves in the bush selection is
watered and counted every day. Take the
taters to the barn that’s for seed, and see the
sprouts is off ’em. Mary is to go to school;
I want no more finin’. But she can help
with the milkin’ mornin' and evenin’. Hear
that, mother. Smith will help Tommy kill
the old ewe with the hurt back. Her mut-
ton will last you while I’m away. Salt
half. Smith’s cornin’ to-morrer; I promised
him the skin for his trouble. And he can
have the head and half the liver if he likes.
Hear that, mother? Keep the kids outer
the barn. They might git scratchin’ the
paint on the noo chaffcutter. And, Ted,
don’t you ferget”
All this time Slavin had been emerging,
disappearing, and re-emerging round the
stack. Mrs. Slavin’s head nodded all
through, and her tongue iterated: “All
right, Dan; I’ll see things is done.”
A great puff of satisfaction and relief.
“There, that’s snug. Not a prettier stack
in all the neighborhood.” Slavin eyed it
with pride.
His eye happened again on the Stranger,
who, feeling himself addressed, ventured:
“You’ve made great haste, but” —tentatively
—“I dpn’t see any change in the weather ap-
proaching !”
Slavin’s eyes were screwed up as one
who sees other things. He chewed between
speech a straw —the last straw.
“Weather ain’t the consideration,” he
vouchsafed. And, without intention of fur-
ther rudeness: “Wot d’yeh want?”
“Merely to enquire the way to Daev’s.”
Slavin spat the straw out —the final one
of a disposed-of harvest. He waved his
hand towards his wife, as if to say, “Ask
hex 1 .” Over his shoulder he added. “Sarah,
hurry up tea.”
The Stranger politely listened to the
brown woman’s directions to Pacy’s.
Then —“Better come an’ ’ave a cupper tea;
not much to offer,” he heard over her shoul-
der, His abstraction fled. Curiosity he-,
came triumphant,
“No, thank you, but—where’s your hus-
band going?”
“Where’s he goin’?” She pitied his ignor-
ance, “For his spree, o’ course. Always
after harvest he has it.”
She bustled off, and left him with a vision
of thin lips in a brown smile, and a feeling
that he had shown lamentable ignorance.
ALPENSTOCIK.
Blither.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HE sits in his seat on high, an old un-
killable god,
Though rheumy and dim his eye, and.
shaky his hand and rod;
For he is the god who drives the fools of you
hence and hither
Throughout your yammering lives —the bab-
blesome god of Blither.
Out of his eye drips rheum, and the edge of
his. mopth .is moist;
And high on a wobbling boom a dish-clout
wet they hoist;
Things slummicky, slimy, damp, are his em-
blem and incense too,
A fumy oil is his lamp, and his priests ai'e
a knock-kneed crew.
There crawls the Poet who wails of the
burbling Might-Have-Been;
And the Bard of the Perfumed Gales, or the
Softly Sylvan Scene ;
There sneaks the Critic who Couldn’t, but
blabs to the men who write, '
And likewise-the Woman who Wouldn’t, but
mumbles that yet she Might.
There yabbers the helpless Tory the fear of
his soul to shrive, ■ ■ 11
And shrieks at some new-born glory. “The
horrible thing’s alive!” .us: ,
’Tis grasping .he knows not whither, and
vexes his anguished head, . b
For they who are . vowed to Blither prefer
things barren and dead. '
He hath his hymn and his song, this god of
slaver and sludge, ' ,1
And if they be right or wrong—go read of
his book, and judge!
The Tory’s clamor of pain When Thought
with its sword goes by, ‘
Or the moody and mild refrpin of an album
poet’s sigh.
Will never a clean blade cut sheer through
the neck of the god, '
And his tepid temple be shut, and broken his
flaccid rod ?
Nay, ever his scentless flowers may wilt,
but they will not wither.
For half of the wide world cowers to the
slobbery god of Blither.
VICTORIA.
L.


TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Club Rum.
Dog Head Stout. King’s Liqueur Whisky.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
Dinneford's]
»r Magnesia
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequenea
of numerous imi*
tations purchasers
must see that
“Dinneford &Co.”
is on every bottle
and label.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
MAGNESIA
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eruotations, Bilious Affections.
PUBLIC OPINION
is generally sane and trustworthy. It is only on really insignifi-
cant and unimportant matters that the sense of the community is
ever at fault. The sentiments and opinions of the world[ are more
likely to be right than those of the isolated critic. This is partic-
ularly true of such matters as must be decided by the test of expe-
rience. What the majority have proved in practice to be true
ought to weigh with us as an established fact. Now if there is one
question more than another on which public opinion is unanimous
it is that the excellence of BEECHAM’S PILLS as a family medi-
cine is unsurpassed. Their universal popularity has very suitably
been expressed in the world-famed expression
BEECHAM’S
PILLS
ARE WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
Prepared only by THOMAS BBBCHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire.
Sold everywhere in boxes, price 1 lib {56 pills) <£ 2/9 (168 pills).
B»e Green Coupon System.
IT IS merely the application of the principle of co-operation to the former individual methods
of giving' discounts for cash. Traders for many years past have given discount to
encourag'e cash trading'—some in Cash, where the amount spent was larg'e enoug'h ; some
by means of tickets printed by the cash register means, and in other ways. Butchers, bn
presentation of a number of these tickets, would give a cash discount in meat, g'rocers in
groceries, and so on. Others, finding' that their customers did not want the discount in the
same class of goods as those sold by them, purchased small stocks of glassware, crockery, etc.,
to give as premiums.
All These Efforts Were Not Very Successful, owing' to the fact that it took a
consumer too long' to collect sufficient coupons, or tickets, at any one place wherewith to
obtain something' of value ; and, besides, the trader did not like handling' premium g'oods which
were not in his line. Therefore a number of traders of different kinds, such as a draper,
a g'rbcer, a butcher, and a bootseller, combined together and issued an interchangeable coupon,
and instead of redeeming' the coupons themselves, appointed an ag'ent to do that for them.
They each paid money to the agent in proportion to the number of coupons they issued
to their customers, and the ag'ent on his part undertook to buy g'oods with the money entrusted
to him by the traders, and to give full retail value to their customers, and, further, undertook
out of the difference between the price he paid the manufacturer and the retail price at which
the g'oods were redeemed by the public, he would establish show rooms, pay all expenses,
advertise the traders, etc., the sole expense to the trader being' the amount he was prepared
to give his customers by way of discount.
Now it will be admitted that the individual traders buying small stocks must
necessarily pay almost retail prices, but the agent acting for a large number of
traders and furnished with sufficient capital can buy largely enough to enable
him to purchase at bedrock prices from the manufacturer. Therefore, the ag'ent
creates the fund out of which working' expenses and profit are paid. The individual traders
are saved all the trouble and expense of keeping' stocks and redeeming' coupons, in addition
to which the advertising' done for them results in their gaining a large increase in cash
trade, and being' thus in possession of more cash they are themselves able to buy better
from the wholesale houses, and obtain larg'er discounts from them. The result is, the public
are encouraged to pay cash, and trade is done on a more solid foundation all round.
The Green Coupon Company fills the
place of Agent for all these various traders.
The public naturally appreciate a system which practically becomes for them a
compulsory saving's bank, for the coupons have to be accumulated until a certain number has
been obtained, when they represent something' substantial, whereas the equivalent discount in
cash on purchases of sixpence would be so trifling' individually that it would be frittered away.
Of course, the system must be honestly administered, and on this point the Company
courts any amount of enquiry and investigation, and if anyone is sceptical as to the value
and quality of the g'oods given in redemption of coupons, he or she is invited to visit the
Company’s Showrooms at y
387 GEORGE STREET, ?S p e °!SSxnd.
and personally inspect the stock.
CARBIDE.
For First-class Results use Best Scandinavian
** PERNIX ” CARBIDE.
Addresses of Merchants distributing it can be obtained
from AUGUST BLUMENTHAL LIMITED, 62 Pitt
Street, Sydney, Sole Agents for Australia.
The’Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
in use since 1506.
CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, Eng.
■ASTHMA CURE
6BIMAIILTS INDIAN CIGARFTTFS
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Coutrhs.
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GRJMAULT & Co’s INDIAN CIGAR-
ETTES. Sold by all Chemists. K
CANT
B
BEAT
RIAR
PIPES!
ALL SHAPES
1/-EACN POST FREE 1/2
Quality Not Belter
in a
Guinea Pipe
'MICK SIMMONS
SYDNEY.
Storekeepers * tobacconists
SHOULD SERB FOR OUR TRADE UST
FROOTOIDS
Cure Headache, Indigestion, Constipa-
tion, and Biliousness. They are elegant
in appearance and pleasant to take;
they are immensely more valuable than
an ordinary aperient; they remove from
the blood, tissues, and internal organs,
waste poisonous matter that is clogging
them and choking the channels that lead
to and from them. Frootoids are !
THE BEST
aperient medicine to take when any
Congestion or Blood Poison is present,
or when Congestion of the Brain or
Apoplexy is present or threatening. They
have been tested, and have been proved
to afford quick relief in such cases when
other aperients have not done any good
at all. Frootoids are absolutely un-
rivalled for
FAMILY
use; their beneficial effects are evident
by the disappearance of headache—a
bright cheery sense, of perfect health
taking the place of sluggish depressed
feelings, by the liver acting properly, and
by the food being properly digested.
Frootoids are a very economical
MEDICINE.
A dose taken once a week, at bed-time,
is highly beneficial. They act splendidly
on the Liver. A constipated habit of
body will be completely cured if the
patient will on each occasion, when
suffering, take a dose of Frootoids in-
stead of an ordinary aperient. The
sufferer thus gradually becomes quite
independent of Aperient Medicines.
Price 1/6. Froih all Chemists and
Medicine Vendors, and W. G. Hearne &
Co., Ltd., Geelong, Victoria.
YOU REQUIRE A STIMULANT.
Doctors recommend Port Wine for Invalids.
V.A.V. BudgerreePort
Nature’s Grift.
jiav!
V A.V.
PORT
fills this prescription.
(Refuse substitutes.)
Don’t think it is too cheap.
Buy a bottle and compare
with other brands at a greater
cost.
The secret is—we grow,
make and bottle this Wine,
thereby saving you middle-
men’s profits.
If your hotel or store does
not stock “ Budgerree Port,”
send us a PiD.O. for 18s.,
and we will forward you a
dozen properly packed with-
out delay.
VICTORIA ASSOCIATED
VINEYARDS CO.,
\G rowers and Merchants,
Basement, 78 PITT STREET, SYOKEY, N.S.W.
And at 19 McKILLOP STREET, MELBOURNE, VIC,


ATMOSLITf
Gas 1
Lighting: and cooking- are
neces-ities. Instal in your
oountrv home a
BRANDT’S
ATMOSLITE
and you’ll have a palace with
the comforts of a city home.
If you wanted to sell, your
home would sell quicker and
fetch more. Catalogue from
BRANDT BROS., LTD.,
LAMP HOUSE,
236 Pitt St., Sydney.
Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
THE LONE HAND offers you the Glad
Hand. It’s the Right Hand, and a week
after publication there are none left.
TELEPHONES.
House, Long-Distance and all kinds of Telephone
Equipment in stock—Low Prices .
Dynamos t Motors, Cables and Wires, and every-
thing in Electrical Supplies on hand.
WRITE FOR PRICE LISTS TO
T. K. STEANES, 37-43 Pitt Street, Sydney.
re
I)
Fibro-Cemeat
WHAT IS IT 7 Portland Cement, rein-
forced with Asbestos. It has the strength and
durability of concrete, and the cool and fire-proof
quality of Asbestos. It is, therefore, strong
light, durable, cool, ant- and fire-proof, artistic in
appearance.
Made hi Slates for roofing, Red, Orey and Purole
In Sheets Bft. 2sin. x 4ft. for Walls, Lining P '
and Ceilings.
Used by the Australian Governments ; also for covering
Churches, Villas, Homesteads, Dairies, Silos etc S
Write for Illustrated Catalogue “B ” to Sole Importers,
JAMES HARDIE & CO.,
Circular Quay West, SYDNEY ; and
581-583 Little Collins* St., Melbourne.
The bulletin post cards-N6 W
Series, IV. V., VL Packet of Twelve, 6d •
Packet of Ten. sd. *
WOLFE’S
The Family Stimulant.
FOR MEN
FOR WOMEN
SCHNAPPS
“SENTINEL
JUNIOR.”
SIMPLE
ENGINE.
DIRECT
DRIVING
A DYNAMO
FOR
ELECTRIC
LIGHTING
PURPOSES.
m
SENTINEL
AIR COMPRESSORS
Special Designs to meet all requirements.
HIGH-SPEED ENGINES
Economical in Steam Consumption and Thoroughly Reliable
HIGH-PRESSURE STEAM TRAPS
The Best High-Pressure Trap now In use.
Feed Water Filter 8 Oil Separator
Highest Economy
and Efficiency.
& SINCLAIR, Ltd,
Simple and Efficient, with large Filtering Surface.
82 Pitt Street, Sydney; Prell’s Buildings, Mel-
bourne; and 228-50 Elizabeth Street, Brisbane.
ENGINEERS,
IRON FOUNDERS,
BOILER MAKERS,
&c., &c.
MEPHAN FERGUSON
PROPRIETARY LIMITED.
Governing Directors
j MEPHAN FERGUSON
(ROBERT SHANO
V, -v
Gordon St.,
Manufacturers of
WROUGHT IRON,
CAST IRON, and
STEEL PIPES.
Contral
f 3236
±5221
_ _ ___ __ I
ELECTRICAL MINING MACHINERY SPECIALISTS.
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LIMITED
AGENTS FOR ERNEST SCOTT & MOUNTAIN, LIMITED, GATESEND ON TYNE, ENGLAND .
162 Clarence St.
Hr
€ -v
- ■
For Blacksmith Equipment and General Machine Shop Work,
Portable Forges, Hand Blowers, Volume and Pressure
Blowers, Exhaust Fans, Blacksmiths’ Hand and Power
Drilling Machines, Twist Drills, etc.; Disc Ventilators,
Gold Tire Setters, etc.
CATALOGUE and PRICE LIST ON APPLICATION,
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.,
ineers and Machinery Merchants,
60
treet
n
•j
&2 .-r
For Artesian Water, Mineral Prospecting, etc.
TRACTION AND NON-TRACTION.
A recent buyer writes: “ The machine (No. 5 Traction) is doing splendid work, so much so that we are ordering
another. The country we are drilling in is very hard, but we have bored as much as 51ft. in a day.” >
Nos* 4 and 5 Traction Machines landing*
Sole
Agents:
263 George Street, Sydney.
525 Collins Street, Melbourne.
