

sg
R. G. WATKINS «S& CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney.
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW and SECOND-HAND PLAN IS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
'
sr
Diesel Oil Engines,
in which Economy and
Efficiency Combine.
535 Kent Street, Sydney, '
486 Collins Street, Melbourne,
S.A. Agent: C. C. DELAND, Bowman’s Bldgs., Adelaide.
■'■■■■ --
HIOBAR-T.
fiadleys Orient fiotel.
dsg
'M 'ij Rif l[n
Guaranteed,
«/. C. Ludowici «fe Son, Ld.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
fd
Take it back,
i must have
id
MAMS ©
BACON.
g
RESISTING
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets is
recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the diges-
tive organs.
Jl
m
unKet,
INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially-prepared Tablets acts most
beneficially when taken daily after meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prixe Medals.
Hansens
fd
ajUb.
M jaw OofC
t|i I i this rf&tr
bJaJUduv axitt fvuds it *Ar&vy / 4a6A*jes
*
4
V\N?
S'
s.
S
Money advanced upon all Securities at Reasonable
Rates of Interest.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
THIS COMPANY WAS FORMED TO SUPPRESS USURY.
And at MELBOURNE, BRISBANE and NEWCASTLE.
BENSDORPS
Royal
Dutch
fd
is the Queen of all Cocoas
i. Aroma,Strength^Purity:
fd
The Roofing which is giving the greatest satisfaction for sloping or Flat
Roofs on Warehouses, Dwellings or Station buildings*
It is made from a pure mineral which is practically indestructible and not
affected by the heat of Summer or the cold of Winter.
Insist on getting the genuine Malthoid, and don't be put off with substitutes
which only outwardly resemble Malthoid.
THE PARAFFINE PAINT COMPANY, CHALETS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
i
D. S. EVANS, Australasian Manager.
SUPPER LAGER
Don’t Ask for Whisky.
Ask for
t
HELIDON SPA WATER
Please choose your “ SPA ” carefully .
You may be penalised otherwise .
URST
8
» Md, #
Agents.
S 6 : ‘ *
The Bulletin
V01.32.~N0. 1639.]
[Thursday, July 13, 1911.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


BOOKS ON SOCIALISM,
by request of Bulletin readers. Our
limited here ; please send for Full
Khsor, R. C.: _ Modern Socialism, as Set Forth by
Socialists in their Writings and Speeches : 1/3,
posted 1/4.
Snowden, P.: Socialism and the Drink Question: 1/3,
posted 1/4.
Hillquit, M.: Socialistic in Theory and Practice; 8/-,
posted 8/4.
Hunter, R.: Socialists at Work ; 8/-, posted 8/4.
The Case Against Socialism: a Handbook for Speakers
and Candidates; 3/-, posted 3/3.
Wells, H. G.: New Worlds for Old; 3/6, posted 3/9
Spence, W. G.: Australia’s Awakening: Thirty Years
in the Life of an Australian Dictator; 6/-
posted 6/2. ' ’
Socialism and Individualism, by S. Webb, B. Shaw
O. Lodge and S. Ball; 1/3, posted 1/4. ’
Wilson, W. L.: The; Menace of Socialism; 7/-, n. 7/4
Jensen, 11. I.: The Rising Tide- 1/-, posted 1/1.
Tun/.elmann, G. W. de: The Superstition Called
Socialism; 6/-, posted 6/4.
ROBERTSON’S, BOOKSELLERS, 238 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
FOR THE VOICE! THROAT!! LUNGS!!!
Hudson’s “Eumenthol Jujubes.’
AN IDEAL REMEDY
MEDICAL 4AIITTC IMS,
SHOULD PAOVE Of GACJkT
C. HUDSON
; i'
SOLD ONLY IN TINS, Price 1/6.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats, Bronchitis
influenza, and the Prevention of Consumption!
Containing No Cocaine or other Poisonous Drue:
Suited for Old and Young.
Thk Lanckt says : “Proved to be effective bactericidalh
as is creosote.” "■>
Unlike cough medicines, “ EUMENTHOL, JUJimpq- a
:;;™,UIr r "“ i *tie i„Si
Sold by All Chemists, or
Post Free on Receipt of
1 6 in Stamps.
COMPASS LTD., 19 York street, Sydney.
THE RED PAGE
Open Water —J. B. Connolly (Geo» Robert-
son and Co.) The author is the best of
American writers about the sea.. One
of these sketches is a pathetic incident
at an emigration depot, and another is
about a footrace. The rest are ■ of
sailor-men, rough customers for the most
part, and their doings are told vividly.
Thus a fight ends: "I brought the club
down as if I was driving a stake. He
went a foot deep into the mud. And
his head was spread out like a red
cauliflower.”
Once Upon a Time —Richard Harding Davis
- Dymock’s). These also are strong
stories for men—potted novels of adven-
ture.
Keith of the Border —Randall Parrish (Dy-
mock’s). Time —just after the Civil
War. Place —Carson City, the Santa
Fe trail, the plains. Cowboys, Indians,
toughs, and a good girl. Murder, a duel,
and love. All the old outfit made into
a story with plenty of “go.”
Mrs. Thompson —W. B. Maxwell (Sydney
Book Club). A careful study of a
strong woman who becomes weak. Her
weakness was a man in her own shop,
through whom she loses nearly every-
thing. The shop and its occupants are
very well done, and the book is an ad-
vance on The Rest Cure.
The Land of Promises— Stanley P. Hyatt
. (Werner Laurie). South Africa pro-
mised much to the two brothers in this
story, and disappointed them. Hyatt
knows the country and hates it. The
chief interest is in the “black sheep,” a
character Hyatt can draw well —evi-
dently from a mirror. .
The General Plan— Edmund Candler (Black-
wood). , .Nine short stories, mostly
about India, by a man who knows the
people, and knows how to write.
A History of Painting
“The True, the Beautiful, and the Good”—
that is the most immoral and misleading-
phrase ever penned about Art. . It means
anything and nothing. All inexactness, all
humanitarian-ideal and theological Art-cant
have hidden comfortably behind its' vague
amplitude. There is no inter-relation be-
tween these tnree qualities, and Art, whose
real meaning they have successfully obscured
from Europe for a century.
To-day we are weary of empty phrases,
and Art must be interpreted for us In terms
of life. For us the visible world exists
again. Perhaps we can thank a scientific
reaction for tins, and if it sets our feet once
more on the road of big realities, and not
upon petty materialistic by-paths, Science
will have earned the gratitude of the human
race.
The nineteenth was the century of new
valuations. Art. understood by such great
minds as Baudelaire, Flaubert and Scliopen-
haur as' an escape from the absolute, was
nevqr perfectly defined until .Nietzsche an-
alysed its raison d’etre in his Will to Power :
“What is essential in Art is the perfection
oi being,” says Nietzsche, “the achievement,
the wayfaring to plenitude; Art is essenti-
ally the affirmation, the benediction, the div-
inisation of existence.’’
Haldane Macfall, steeped in this magnifi-
cent valuation, gives it recurrence in his
History of Painting (T. and E. Jack, Lon-
don ), now in full tide of publication. Isolated
good books upon Art have issued within the
last 25 years, notably George Moore’s
McColl’s and 11. A. M. Stevenson’s; the rest,
or most of them, are mush.
Macfall’s History is not to be con-
fused with the ephemeral books made to
sell, of which every hungry publisher has is-
sued a series. This is not the work of a
cadet in criticism, nor of a pedant. Hal-
dane Macfall is one who has eaten heartily
at the past of life, and with good digestion;
and to Art he has gone as a lover, and net as
a surgeon. So that he comes to his self-
imposed business splendidly equipped, filled
with knowledge gleaned afar, with intuitions
alert and vibrant, and with an inexhaustible
enthusiasm which is half the man. His
style is warm, clear, and brilliant. He will
enthuse any but the dullest.
He opens with a fanfare: “That man who
is without the Arts is little above the beasts
or the field’—and sets out to reveal the sig-
nificance of Art to the average man —that
average man so foolishly and truculently
scorned by the self-chosen few. “Tour or-
al nary man is easily convinced of his limita-
tions, and straightway takes the apologetic
altitude; avers that he ‘does not know any-
thing about Art,’ and flies at the sound of
the word,’ says Macfall, and straightway the
critic falls to comforting the average man
very honestly,” like Gargantua, tells him to
trust his instincts—always less fallible than
lus reason, and he will find he is not such a
tool as he thinks himself.
Personally, I fear that Art is like Nietz-
sche s great book, “for all and none” ; that
intelligence is incommunicable,' that love is
the only touchstone, and that the world,
busied about the flesh and the devil, has for-
gotten the great word leisure, without wliihli
there is neither self-realisation nor finder"
standing. But Ilaldane Macfall has high
hopes for Israel misled false prophets. Yet
even if he fails to awaken a sluggish public,
he has made a braw history, and done an in-
valuable service to truth and the artist, bv
destroying that shibboleth of the beautiful
as Art. This, the. delusion par excellence,
lias persisted so long that Macfall’s clear
statement—it might almost be called his dis-
covery— be sufficiently resounded :
“A confusion, created by the Greeks and
repeated by the pedants of the centuries, has
arisen in confusing Art with Beauty. That
Art is Beauty, or has any concern with
Beauty, is wholly untenable. If not, then
the greatest masterpieces of the ages must
be wholly rejected; aiid small things that
have no concern whatever with Art must be
raised to masterpieces of Art.
“This confusion has largely arisen owing
to the confusion of Art with its tool Crafts-
manship.
“A poker may be a beautiful thing—it is
not Art. A photograph may be beautiful —
it is not Art. A woman may be beautiful —
she is not necessarily a Work of Art.
“Art must create, it must transfer sensa-
tion from the creator of it to us. . . .
‘Neither Whistler nor Flaubert, nor an-
other has the right to narrow the acreage of
the garden of life. What concern had
Shakespeare with Beauty? In the book of
Life which Shakespeare wrote, Beauty is
not yhis god—Beauty is not his ultimate
aim. Is jealousy beautiful? Yet Othello
is great Art. Is man’s ineffectual struggle
against destiny beautiful? Yet Hamlet is
rightly accounted a masterpiece of the ages.
Are hate and despair and fear and remorse
beautiful ?
“It has been written of late that Millet’s
Killing of a Hog is beautiful ! It is wholly
unbeautiful. Had Millet made it beautiful
ne had uttered the stupidest" of' lies. Never-
theless the statement of it is Art. Indeed
Millet’s aim in Art, a large part of his sig-
nificance in Art is a protest against the pet-
tiness of mere beauty.”
From the above excerpt it dan be easily
seen that the ayerage man may enter-the
p&ges of this book without misgiving, and
be entertained if not enlightened. For it
is a clear book, free of all technical jargon,
of all sentimentalising, pedantry and postur-
ing. The great painters* framed in the
spix-it of their time, live again in that splen-
did' setting. For Macfall is a bi’illiant his-
torian. He understands life, and therefore
■history is alive with suggestion to him, and
his good psychological sense never misses
the characteristic.
The work will be completed in eight vol-
umes, each cohering a period and complete
in itself. Another advantage is that each
volume may be purchased separately at
Ts. 6d. net. They are handsome tomes,,
quarto size, and the number of excellently
printed color blocks,, which are often re-
markably reminiscent of the originals, have
been selected most carefully to illustrate
the style and quality of the masters. '
Haldane Macfall promises in this last vol-
ume to discover to us the present condition
of the British Art world. It should be a
hot and stirring book, for no critic in Eng-
land is so much alive to the innafe rotten-
ness of the forces that govern the buying and
selling of pictures, the lack of direction, the
incohesiveness, the wasted effort of the artist
of to-day.
LIONEL LINDSAY.
The Corsican
Although every phase of Napoleon's life
and character must have been exploited by
this time, it was possible for an American,
R. M. Johnston, to make a new and interest-
ing book out of old material. This he did
by arranging all the recorded words spoken
or written by Napoleon in the order of the
dates to which they relate. His hook— The
Corsican ( Angus and Robertson) —is, there-
fore something like a diary of Napoleon’s
life in his own words. What was said or
written at the time of Austerlitz or Water-
loo is followed by the comments made when
Boney fought his battles over again at St.
Helena. •
A reader fresh to the subject may find it
disconcerting' to be without the connecting
links which a Boswell would have supplied,
and to be jerked from one style to another
on almost every page. But to one who
knows the story of Napoleon, even in out-
line, there is a charm in following the ex-
pression of that amazing mind without in-
terruption, and no objection to the transi-
tion from the passionate Josephine letters to
the curt dispatch, a bit of familiar. conver-
sation, a well-weighed address to soldiers, a
crushing rebuke to a minister, or a wily
letter to the Pope.
At the age of 21 the artillery officer was
writing about love:—
Ivy will cling to the first met tree;
that, in a few words, is the whole history of
love. What is love? The realisation of his
weakness that sooner or later pervades the
solitary man, a sense both of his weakness
and his immortality;
On the 18th Brumaire, 1799, the First Con-
sul said, in the manner of Caesar
The army has come to me, and I have
come to the legislative body. What have you
done with France, which I left in your hands
so prosperous ? I left you peace, I find war !
I left you victories, I find defeats! I left
you millions, I find beggary ! This state of
things must cease.
He wrote in 1800 that he would arrive in
Paris unexpectedly:—
I wteli no triumphal ax*ches, no ceremonies,
i nave too good an opinion of myself to put
any value on such flim-tiam.
iet a week earlier l)e had rerharked about a
ceremony at Milan
Imagination rules the world. The defect
ot our modern institutions is that they do not
speak to the imagination.
That he knew how to hppeal to the imagin-
ation of the French by glittering ceremonies
was fully proved later On. He kept his hhnd
on most of the forces which affected the
minds of. the people, and in ISOS he wrote
from Italy to Fouclie:—
I read in a paper that a tragedy on Henry
IV. is to be played. The epoch is i*ecent
enough to excite political passions. The
theatre must dip more into antiquity. Why
not commission Raynouard to write a tragedy
on the transition from primitive to less
primitive man? A tyrant would be followed
by .the Saviour of his country. The ora-
torio “haul” is on precisely that text —a
great man succeeding a degenerate king.
Napoleon knew the value of words, but
he was not a maker of phrases. Yet the
awfulness of the Russian campaign loses
nothing in the terse paragraphs which de-
scribe Borodino, Moscow—“an ocean of fire”
and the terrible retreat.
The Corsican leaves one impressed by the
truth of somebody’s saying of Napoleon
that “hatred itself could deny him no title
to glory except virtue.”
The Birds of Australia
probably every Australian who happens
to live out of town is interested in the birds
of his locality, and could identify an emu on
the wing, or tell a magpie from a morepork.
But how many know the Pied Oyster-catcher,
the Hoary-headed Grebe, the Frogmouth, the
G-osliawk, the Stink-bird, the Rufous Bristle-
bird, or the Yellow-rumped Tit? And how
many of the native-born are aware that in
extent and variety the bird life of this con-
tinent is more wonderful than that of any
other part of the world? As a matter of
fact, it has hot been easy for them to obtain
information, as most of the books on the sub-
ject were scientific and expensive.- And
until recent years Australians were not en-
couraged to study Australian things. It has
been said more than once on this page, and
Frank Tait says it again in a little book re-
ferred to later on, that Australia has suffered
greatly from imported phrase-makers, and
all our reading matter used to be made
abroad:—
We read much about the beauty of the
songs of the lark and the thrush and the
nightingale, but we found no printed author-
ity for the belief that our magpie is one of
the great song-birds of the world. W'e read
of--the wonderful powers of the American
mocking bird, and did not know that our
beautiful lyre-bird is a finer mimic.. .And I
remember well a lesson I heard as a boy on
the migration of birds in which the teacher
took all his illustrations from his boyish ex-
periences in .the South of England and gave
us no idea that the annual migration* of our
familiar Australian birds to far-off Siberia
is a much more wonderful thing.
He points out that that is changed now ; the
school books are Australian-made, and na-
ture study is part of the curriculum. The
poets have not done much to popularise the
native birds; but their task is difficult on
account of the unpoetical names, as illus-
trated by some lines in the “Oriel” column
of The Argus :
Sweetheart, w'e 'watched the evening sky
grow pale,
And drowsy sweetness stole away our senses;
While ran adown the swamp the Pectoral
Rail,
And shy Hypotamidia pliilippinensis.
How sweet a thing is love! Sweet as the
rose,
Fragrant as flowers, fair as the sunlight
beaming;
Only the Sooty Oyster-catcher knows
How sweet to us as there we lingered dream-
ing.
Dear, all the secret’s ours. The Sharp-
tailed Stint
Spied, but he will pot tell —though you and I
Paid Cupid’s debts from Love’s own golden
mint,
While Yellow-bellied Shrike Tits fluttered
nigh.
The Honeyeaters heard, the Fuscons —yea,
The Warty-faced, the Lunulated too;
But this kind feathered tribe will never say
What words you said to me or I to you.
No, we cannot expect the poets to do much
with such names, and must depend upon
such books as are now being issued to de-
velop interest in our birds.
* * * *
A. H. Lucas and W. H. Le Souef, who
wrote a useful handbook on the animals, are
responsible for a similar volume on The
Birds of Australia (Whitcombe and Tombs,
215.). It gives sufficient information for
the naturalist, and a plain description for
the general reader. There are about 200 il-
lustrations, six of which are in color. The
latter are reproduced from paintings by
Mrs. Royvan, and are pretty enough as pic-
tures, but the figures are rather small and
too confused with foliage. The photographs
are good; those of the Pheasant Coucal and
the Spotted Harrier particularly fine.
~ . e desci iptive matter is necessarily
brief, and anecdote had to be shut out or the
•book would have been too big. Yet there is
a good deal of interesting reading which
would be a joy to any bird lover. The book
does not come into competition with Gould’s
or . Giegory Matthew s expensive works.
It is well printed, and at its price it will be
a boon to teachers and students of our bird
life.
*
* *
An Australian Bird Book,' by J. A Leach
w-ith an introduction by F. Tate, Director
°r Education in Victoria, is intended for
school children who are taking up nature
study. It contains a catalogue of most of
the birds in the bigger book—with condensed
descriptions and a running comment at the
root ot each page. The spirit of the author’s
remarks, will awaken enthusiasm, and the
&9QK is cordially recommended to schools.
Published by Wliitcombe and Tombs at 3s. Gd.
- _ ——«. -
J/wm Dawson, “Boss,” by Sumner Locke
(N.S.W. Bookstall Co., Is.), is a cheerful
yarn about a typical bush mother, a grim
haid-grafter, built large as Souter’s drawr-
mgs show her, having a short way with
slackers and no time for laughter. Eleven
children and the old man to look after all
through the battle with drought and bad
times, brought out the Spartan virtues. She
is the antithesis of Steele Rudd’s “Dad” in
everything but pluck. Her family provide
a good deal of humor, and Sumner Locke is
to be congratulated on an honest and inter-
esting book.
Coronation Verse
Coliill and Co, undertakers of Sydney,
■forward a booklet which they thought it
necessary, to issue, regardless of expense,, “on
this historic obcaSidn.” It contains the
usual photographs and an Ode by Henry
Lawson, in which a long eulogy of Ci‘oin-
well, the king-slayer, bumps the rest out of
gear.
■ Ihideric Quinn has also been coronetting
in verse dn behalf'of the loyalists of Parra-
matta. The photographs in this case are
of local sites and celebrities, and the verse
is smooth ■ and thoroughly respectable. It
is a long way better than the 14 lines of
platitude which came from the' Official
olobberer:—
“Editor's Xote: It is with a singular sense
of the unique honor conferred upon its pages
that Nash's Magazine prints the deliverance
of the Poet Laureate to the nation: —
Not by their own proud hand succeed, en-
throned,
Our Emperor-Kings, but by the free acclaim
Qt a strong resolute-, face that long have
owned ..
The right to welcome them to crowu and
name,
Therbfore to-day—though mindful still of
■One. ■'-.' ■
Whom we with lamentation vesterday
Loie to the rest of all whose race is run— l
In unison we now throughout the Empire
say. . - -
Remember the great trust enthronement
brings
Each dawn that ushers in another clay
Unto its Rulers, Emperors and Kings,
S gray PS s<?met * m ? s 'hfigh-t. and sometimes
Love freely given is worth a thousand cheers
Bought from a people by their dread and
tedrs,
ALFRED AUSTIN.
Ethel Sidgwiek’s Gentleman ( Sydney
Book Club) is a well written “idyll of the
Quarter,” depending upon a few finely-
drawn characters, and not upon the usual
Bohemian atmosphere. The gentleman, a
Scot with Oxford training, is in Paris to
look after his fiancee, who is studying art
aad , gaining a .knowledge of life in ways
which give the prudent lover some shivers.
He did not care much for French women :
Thej r had mocking eyes and an answer
pat to everything, even before you had fin-
ished speaking. Otherwise stated, they did
not seem to consider before they spoke, and
yet their speech showed a disconcerting
sharpness. Their movements, too, were con-
trolled and effective; they appeared never to
be oil the stage.
But it is not so much “the gentleman” who
engages the reader’s., interest as a Parisian
girl whom he meets by chance. She is
studying English, and- the theme set for her
examination is “the gentleman as portrayed
in English literature.” Her action in the
story is that of the finest type of lady.
No one has seized as clearly and finely as
Tt hekhof the tragic side of life’s medioX
cnties. No one. before him was able to
draw with such pitiless realism the shameful
picture of the dull bourgeois existence.
Banality! that was his enemy. All his life
he' fought against it; he has ridiculed if
with his biting, restless pen; lie knew how
to lay naked the rottenness of this or that
at first .sight, though everything seemed ar-
ranged m the most comfortable and luxuri-
ous order. And banality avenged itself in
causing, his body—the body of the poet—to
be put m a waggon destined for the “Trans-
port of Live Oysters.”
Maxim Gorki in The English Review.


Jk
n
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ for DAINTY TOILET REQUISITES
No. 1843A —Ster.ing Silver=
mounted Hair Brush, plain
design, 16/= and 21/= each.
No. 1609— Cut=(jlass Scent
Bottle, Silver Band round
Neck, 4£in. high, 2J-
No. 1604— Cut Glass Scent
Spray, Sterling Silver
Mounts, Pump Top, sJin.
high, 6/6.
No. IGOG — Cut Glass Perfume
Bottle, Silver Gap Top, three
sizes—
-5 5| in. high
5/6 7/6 10/- each
iVo. 1613— Sponge Holder, Nickel plated
on Brass, for Hanging- on Bath, 8/6.
No. 1614— Sponge Holder, Nickelplated
on Brass, for Hanging on Bath, 5/9.
No. 2B— -Ebony
Cloth Brush,
(Silver Shield on
Back, good, stiff
bristles, 7/6,
8/6 each.
No. 18000—Shaving Set, on Wood Base,
sin. Adjustable Mirror, 7/6.
Larger Size, 6jin. Mirror (1800 B), 9/6.
Terms —Spot Cash.
No. 1838— Sterling
Silver=m ounted
Cloth Brush, Cnpid
design, 10/6, 12/6.
No. ions— Cut Glass Per=
fume Bottle, Chased Silver
Band Bound Neck, ’Jin.
. high, 8/6.
No. 1600— Glass Scent
Spray, Sterling 1 Silver
Mounts, Pump Top, 7in.
high, 6/6.
*O. 1843 B —Sterling Sliver-
mounted Hair Brush,
Fancy Design, 16/6, 21/-
r«
ffidi
mm
B 1
m
m
ti
mm
No. 1607— Glass Scent
Smelling Salts Bottle,
Silver Band Round Neck,
4in. high, 1/9.
No. 1802— ji'oiibneu Nickel
Shaving Set, sJin. Bevelled
Glass and Shaving Brush, 9/6.
No. 1833 A —Sterling Silver-
mounted Hair Brush, Cupid
design, 10/6.
No. 18430 —Pair Oent.’s Sllver=Backed Hair Brushes and Comb, in
Solid Leather Case, Stiff Bristles, Plain Concave Backs, 30/-, 38/6.
No. 1610— Glass Smell-
ing Salts Bottle, Silver
Band Bound Neck,
Square Shape, 2fin.
high, 1/3.
No. 1612— Sponge and Soap Holder,
Nickelplated on Brass, for Hanging on
Bath, 8/6.
No. 1608 — Glass Scent
Bottle, Chased Silver Band
round Neck and Shoulders,
4jin. high, 3/-
No. 1809 — Nickel Shaving Set, 6in.
Revolving Bevelled Mirror, China Bowl
in Nickel Cup, and. Badger Brush, 11/=
No. 1602— Glass Scent Spray,
Sterling Silver Mounts, Pump
Top, sJin., 8/6.
m
V
MWm
. .
m
'
ees
ph
No. 1848 A —Glass Scent Bottles, with Silver Cap Top-
-3£ 4 4£ 5 6 in. hijrh
4/6 5/6 7/6 10/6 12/6 each
No. 1601—niass Scent Spray,
Sterling S lver Mounts, Pump
Top,;/s£in. high, 4/6.
No. 1848B — Glass Scent Bottles, with Silver
Cap Top—
-5
6/6
4
4/6
6 in. hiffh
8/6 each
No. 1603— Glass Scent Spray,
Sterling- Silver Mounts, sJin.
high, Pump Top, 8/6.
9
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
> *. '
Rent Brewery, Sydney
p
♦
r-rj
X
AGIC
YSTERY
/•V2NXX> ~
IRTrt
YOU all know the “man who does the
tricks” at the party—don’t you?
Makes everybody laugh, puzzles and tricks
them and they can’t tell how he does it.
YOU’can be as clever and funny as he by
, Novelties and Magic Surprises. Very simple if you follow the instructions with
each
the use of our Tricks,
Write for Free Catalogue of Makers
of Mirth and Mystery.
fd
The Wonderful Gyroscope and
Mono*rail Top.
Perfect demonstration of the railroad of
the future. This marvellous top defies
the laws of gravity and equilibrium.
Spins in any position—on top of finger,
end of nose, edge of tumbler, etc. Baffles
Science, delights children, astounds
adults. The more you spin it, the more
it will puzzle you.
Post Free 1/3, or Larger Size, 2/3.
CO
c
3 S * »' ® • r
Chinese Ring Bar Puzzle.
Endless amusement. The idea is to
remove the handle from the rings. Looks
so simple, yet puzzles them all till they
know how. Well made of solid polished
brass. Fits vest pocket. Write for it
to-day, enclosing stamps for amount.
1/- Post Free.
r
vs
*
m
&
m
The Wonderful Plate-Lifter.
Will make your friends' plates and cups dance quite
unexpectedly as they sit at meals. No
one can see the cause ; works quite im-
perceptibly from the other end of the
table. Shrieks of laughter. 1/-post free.
'O
Mfi
The Wizard Fortune-
Telling Cards.
Endless interest. Lends
a new charm to pre-
dicting fortune. Sim-
ple to use.
1/9 Post Free.
A
Wondrous Disappearing
Handkerchief Trick.
This handkerchief makes anything
disappear. Very effective.
1/3 Post Free.
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
(H. L. HUTCHINSON, LTD.)
710 GEORGE STREET,
111 KING STREET,
25-27 OXFORD STREET,
SYDNEY.
COLDS
SANACINE prevents the wasting and tearing of the Tissues that occurs in violent colds,
clears away the congested phlegm, and speedily allays irritation and inflammation of the
respiratory organs, and strengthens the linings of the throat and nose. Colds, Influenza,
Lung Weakness, Head and Chest Colds, throat weakness and more virulent forms
of colds immed ateiy yield to the vigorous curative action of Sanacine. A few doses
taken in the early stages diminish the severity of an attack, and a rapid cure is assured.
h
SanaciitG foeneSlts
Russian Royal Family
A .Court Official writes : “Sanacine was introduced
to the Russian Imperial Family, and they have found
great benefit from using it."
dhf
SANACINE
NATURE’S LUNG HEALER
An Invaluable Remedy for
COUGHS
COLDS
ASTHMA
BRONCHITIS
CATARRH
INFLUENZA
CONGESTION
HOARSENESS
HUSKINESS
SORE THROAT
WHOOPING COUGH
CHEST WEAKNESS
and all Disorders of the Lungs, Chest, and Throat.
Prices in Gt. Britain: Liquid and Table,, 1/1} and 2/9. Sold by all Australia.
Proprietors ASHTON & PARSONS. LIMITED, LONDON, E.C.. ENGLAND
Australian
Established 1849.
Mutual Provident Society.
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security or Freehold or Leasehol
City or Suburban Properties, or o
3 a
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Trea.sury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand DOF" AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Oar new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors—The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman : Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman : Benjamin
Short Esq. : The Hon. James Burns. M.L.C. : The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.; The Hon. F.E. Winchcombe, M.L.C.;
Adrian Knox, E«q.. K.C. General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece. F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE, 87 'PITT STREET, SYDNEY. H. W. APPERLY, Secretary.
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau.
Full Particulars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Climate Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Crown Land suitable for Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on
Better Terms than elsewhere in Australia.
Corner of Queen and
George Streets. Brisbane.
T. C. TROEDSON,
General Director.
Sydney Branch Office at 116 Pitt Street.—Local Director: A. MESTON.
Will Andrade ~ BOOKS.
How to Woo
and Win.
THE ART AND
ETIQUETTE OE
Love and Courtship
The Best Lover’s Guide
Ever Published.
1/-, Post Free 1/2.
Art of Boxing and Self-Defence, 1/2 ; Gold Hunter’s Adventures in Aus-
tralia, 1/9 ; Complete Book of Love Letters, 1/ ; How to Woo arid Win, 1/1;
Astrology Made Easy, 1/1; Money-Making Secrets, 1/1; Minstrel Show, 1/1;
Eight Popular Farces, 1/1; Sixteen Amusing Farces, 1/1; Thirteen One-Act
Farces, 1/1; Twenty Humorous Dialogues, 1/1; Home Amusements, 1/1 ;
“ How Old Mose Counted the Eggs ” and 116 Other Humorous Recitations,
1/1 ; Famous Dramatic Recitations, 1/1 ; “How Sockery Set a Hen” and
other Comic Recitations, 1/1; Famous Dialect Recitations, 1/1; 1401 Conun-
drums and Riddles, 1/1; Art of Ventriloquism, 1/1 ; Hypnotism, Mesmerism
and Cl irvoyanee, 1/1 ; Popular Horse and Cattle Doctor, 1/1 ; How to Teach
Animal Tricks, 1/1; What Young People Should Know, Confidential Talks,
1/1 ; Dr. Faulkner’s Original Book of Nature, the only genuine and complete
edition, S/6, posted 3/9 ; New Tricks with Cards, 1/ ; House Painting, Paper-
hanging, Whitewashing, etc., 1/2; 3000 Priceless Secrets, 1/8; Irish Jokes
and Witty Sayings, 9d.; Complete Letter Writer for Ladies and Gentlemen,
1'; Dancing Without an Instructor, 1/; Lover’s Guide to Courtship and
Marriage, 1/; Bernard Macfadden’s Physical Training, 2/9; Macfadden’s
Building of Vital Power, 5/4 ; Macfadden’s Superb Virility of Manhopd, 5/4 ;
Macfadden’s Sweethearts for Lives, 5/4 ; Australian Billiard Champion Gray’s
SO~AND ANY BOOK
YOU WANT.
Mention The Bulletin.
Book on Billiards, 1/5 ; Wrestling, Instructor,
with 60 Photographic Illustrations, 1/9; Bag
Punching, lOd. ; All Steele Rudd’s Aus-
tralian Books, 1/1; Road Map of Victoria,
1/1.
Above prices include postage to any address. Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne.
STEVENS FIREARMS
THE WORLD’S STANDARD,
Ss-C
r iTsST,
Our
POPULAR PRICED RIFLES
are notable for their ACCU-
RACY> RELIABILITY and
LASTING QUALITIES.
STEVENS FIGHTING LINE.
Our Demi-Bioc and Repeating Shotguns are "Superb for Trap and Field."
All Progressive
Dealers handle
STEVENS.
Insist on our make.
Write for Catalogue to
ARTHUR H. HILL, Australian Represent-
ative for Stevens Arms and Tool Co.,
Box 86, G.P.O Adelaide, S. Australia.
Send for latest Fire-
arm, Telescope and
Stevens-Pope Cata-
logues. [7
A Clergyman’s Testimony to Clements Tonic .
REV. J. WILLIAMS.
CLEMENTS TONIC LTD.
A MINISTERING MEDICINE
FOR ELEVEN YEARS PASTOR
of the Wooloongabba Congregational Church, Bris-
bane, and Principal of the Theological School
founded therewith, the Rev. John Williams, a strong
intellectual thinker, and a fine and forceful preacher,
well remembered in Brisbane for his splendid edu-
cational sermons and lectures, writes the following
letter to the merits of a great medicine which is
creating unquestionable cures of Nervous Breakdown,
Insomnia, Weakness, Brain-Fag, and Stomach and
Liver Ailments. Business men and women in ill-
health should read this letter, especially if they wish
to regain health and strength, and enjoy life as only
healthy people can :
“Clements Tonic Cured Me.”
“ Prompted by a spirit of gratitude, I write to let you know that Clements
Tonic did for me what I have learnt it has done so effectively for others. I
suffered from nervous breakdown, consequent upon the strain of over-work,
and was for a time at quite a loss to find an effective recuperative. Happily
my choice fell on Clements Tonic, which restored me to my wonted self with
surprising speed and surety. When I have felt the same condition of nerves
arising, I have promptly checked it by a timely use of the remedy. Above
all, I find it induces a natural, refreshing sleep, wherein Nature has oppor-
tunity to work her cures in her own way ; and what could be better said of
a remedy than that ? I am, yours faithfully,
REV. J. WILLIAMS.”
Every week letters in praise of the health-creating properties of this great medicine, Clements Tonic,
are given to the proprietors. They come from all States of the Commonwealth, Those persons who are
afflicted with impaired digestion, nervous breakdown, or debility, constipation, weakness, lassitude, low
spirits, biliousness, sick headache, liver or kidney irregularity, should obtain Clements Tonic and health
at the same time. This letter proves this can be done. People who are ill, sickly, weak-nerved; with
strength, vigor, energy undermined, or who cannot get strong after long or sudden illnesses or attacks
of fever etc., should read the tributes to this great medicine, and send for it without delay, A 1 *
Chemists and Stores sell it everywhere in Australia, so that the sick person may obtain it.


I
Medicine
Without
Alcohol
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla is a tonic
and alterative, free from alcohol.
What is a “ tonic ” ? A medicine
that imparts strength or tone; a
medicine that builds up, gives
vigor and power. What is an
‘‘ alterative ” ? A medicine that
alters or changes unhealthy ac-
tion to healthy action. Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla does all this with-
out stimulation. Ask your doc-
tor if a family medicine, like
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, is not vastly
better without alcohol than
with it.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mast., U. S. A,
NTJ
PAT
Collison&Co.
PATENTS and TRADE MARKS
obtained in ail countries.
483 Collins St., MELBOURNE.
Eagle Chambers, ADELAIDE
Write us for Inventors’ Guide.
Established 1877
Practical Proof.
There never were so
many people using
Cerebos Salt as there are
to-day, which shows that
its purity, goodness and
daintiness are every day
becoming more and more
appreciated.
Cerebos
Salt.
Agents—Harrison & Attwood, Sydney.
YOUR EYES!
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
EYE
OINTMENT.
INSTANT
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE IT!
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-. Or by post from
Proprietors, 443 Bourke St., Melbourne.
For RHEUMATISM
gf
and all BLOOD DISORDERS.
Packets, 3d., 6d. and Is.
[t
MILNERS’ SAFES
have the Largest Sale in the World.
■
i
SYDNEY : John Keep & Sons, Ltd., Clarence St.
MELBOURNE : Briscoe & Co., Ltd., Lit. Collins St.
BRISBANE : Webster & Co., Ltd., Mary St.
PERTH : McLean Bros. & Rissr.
Aus. Rep. —T. Nicholls, c/o Sydney Agents.
j
Good for
The Children
Every mother knows that there is
no better Cough Medicine for the
little ones than “Bonnington's Irish
Moss.” Its soothing and healing
properties are at once noticeable. It
is pleasant to take and affords relief
from the first dose.
Guaranteed entirely free from harmful narcotics
gained its place in public favor by sterling worth, and keeps it by the same
unchanged efficiency. For the relief and cure of Coughs and Colds, Bronchitis,
Whooping Cough, Croup, this remedy is unsurpassed.
BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTES.
Always ask fob ''BON N I NGTON'S”
1/6 & 2/6
Richardson Cushion Frame, Anti-Jar Ball-
Bearing: Roller Skates.
Used exclusively in all of the larsrest and most successful rinks in America,
and by all the Champions of the World, fast and fancy. RICHARDSON
SKATES have held all World’s Records for *l4 years. Write for Catalogue.
Tells how to open and operate Roller Rinks.
Richardson Ball-Bearing Skate Co., 311 Michigan Street, Chicago, U.S.A.
RICHARDSON
gf
CHICAGO
How French Women
Develop
T5hQ • . .
BUST
The absence of a full ,
well-rounded bust takes
away four-fifths of a
woman’s charm.
Emaciation ■ is really one
form of disease, and the
inability to add sufficient
tissue to round out and give to the
body a symmetrical appearance
is, in most cases, evidence that
some ailment is interfering with
the digestive and assimilative
processes.
How often have you watched
the tremendous social progress of
some of your female acquaint-
ances who, though not so fortu-
nate maybe as yourself in intel-
lectual attainments, but possess-
ing charm because of an excep-
tional figure, have carried all
before them.
As the magnet draws the steel,
so the influence created by a distinctive figure
attracts man.
Let two women enter a room together, both
strangers to the assembled guests ; let one be
as pretty as a picture in the face, thin and
slight-chested ; the other full-bosomed,
/
well-rounded shoulders, hips developed pro-
portionately for height, and a full, rounded
(even though plain) face. Which receives
the admiration of the gathering ? She with
the pretty figure every time ! The pretty
face is a bad second.
You are not to blame for being thin ; but
if you remain thin, scrawny and undeveloped,
the blame rests entirely on your own shoulders.
Thousands of weak, nervous, run-down,
anaemic women who, when they
came to us, were mere shadows
of what Nature intended them
to be,, are now, as the result of
a few weeks’ proper guidance,
perfect examples of female devel-
opment —healthy, strong and
permanently restored to vigorous
womanhood.
Send 2d. stamp, and let us tell
you, free of any cost, how you
may develop your bust. We
will also send you a FREE
TRIAL SAMPLE of Treatment.
Write at once.
FAILURE FLESH-FOOD CO.,
1103 ASH STREET, SYDNEY,
Rear Equitable Building*.
[lBO5
j
A
PERFECT
FOOD
IN
TYPHOID & DYSENTERY
HORLICK S MALTED MILK
is especially valuable as a diet in
Fever cases. Easily assimilated in
the weakest conditions. Whole-
some, nourishing and sustaining.
Recommended by the Medical Profession.
Of all Chemists and Stores.
,82. Pitt Street. Sydney, N.S.W.
Horlick's Malted Milk Co.,
Slough, Bucks.
England.
fj
Free t> Smokers!
Mr. R. J. Hinton, Jerrara Creek, Marulaß,
N.S.W., writes
“ It gives me great pleasure to inform you that I
have been completely cured of the Tobacco
Habit by your wonderful Tobacco Specific, after
using tobacco heavily for seven years, sometimes
Boz. to lOoz. in the week. It is now 12 months
since I last used tobacco, and, although I am con-
tinually in the company of smokers, I do not have
the least desire to smoke, therefore I consider
the cure permanent.
“My general health is now perfect; all my
former complaints, such as irregular Heart
Action, Dizziness, Nervousness and Stomach
Trouble, which I have every reason to believe
were caused through the use of tobacco, have en-
tirely disappeared, and are only remembered as a
hideous nightmare. I eat and sleep well, and feel
fit to face the world again. It will give me great
pleasure to recommend your remedy to others.”
FREE SAMPLE.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you a FREE
JAMPLE of Tobacco Specific, also Booklet, Testi-
monials, etc.
H. SINCLAIR &, CO.,
DEPT. Q, VICTORIA ARCADE. SYDNEY, [f
£1573118(9
at a penny a smile, the cash value
ot. y .°.l The Wavback Series.
ARE YOU
RUPTURED
Have you grown tired of wearing useless and
cumbersome trusses ? Do you want to obtain an
appliance that is not only comfortable to wear,
but one THAT WILL HOLD YOUR RUPTURE UNDER
ALL CONDITIONS? Then write us, and we will
send you particulars and testimonials regarding
our
AIRCUSHIOIM APPLIANCE
which is something entirely new, is in fact, THE
BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE OF THE CENTURY. No
galling steel springs or chafing leather under-
straps. The pad is made of soft pliable rubber,
which presses gently, yet firmly on THE CORRECT
SPOT. To show what we think of the Appliance
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instanco. The price is within the reach
of all. Can yon ask for more? PERFECT EASE
AND COMFORT FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE. An
appliance suitable for men, women and children
Doscriptive Pamphlet Posted Frco.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE, VIC.
wars
JUICE
There’s Sauce for you!
Montserrat
Lime Juice Sauce suits
all tastes, and owing to its
purity, adds a zest to food,
without upsetting the most
delicate digestion. It helps
your food to feed you.
Jlsk your Storekeep r for It.
Guaranteed free from Preservatives.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ballade of Wanderlust.
(To a burden of George Meredith’s.)
Now the sea-winds blow, now the spring tides swell,
Now a new moon summons me, thin and bright:
For a tops’l schooner that I know well
Is breasting the rip in the Straits to-night.
And it’s oh, to be out where the currents fight,
With the mains! reefed, and the white wake flying,
Under the beam of the Brothers Light—
Yes, little girl, and it’s no use crying!
Oh, to be out where the coasters are —-
Weather brace taut and lee brace slack
Beating up for a nine-mile bar
Where the signals beckon across the wrack —■
Or going about on a shortened tack
To an off-shore gust in the tops’ls dying,
While the wheel spins round and the wheel spins
back—
Yes, little girl, and it’s no use crying!
I know the message the sea-winds spell,
And the world-old lure of the seabirds’ flight,
ind the good blue-water yarns they tell
Of man’s adventure, and ocean’s might:
And it’s oh, to be tossed in an open bight,
Where the hookers I know of old are plying,
Far from the shore and its dead delight!
Yes, little girl, and it’s no use crying!
Calls of the sea are sounding far.
Oh, but I’m weariful, whiles I lack
Whistling rigging, and creaking spar—
Bowlines’ rattle, and stays’l’s crack.
Out of the midnight’s gold and Black
The call has come that there’s no denying,
And I must follow the seagulls’ track—
Yes, little girl, and it’s no use crying!
MAORILAND.
C.
The Tree.
We came upon an Old, old tree,
All hunchbacked, gnarled and struck
Into a dismal simile
Of death and broken luck.
And when we’d fed our eyes on him,
One said: “Gome, build a pyre,
And let this ancient monarch swim
Like Phoenix from the fire.”
Straightway the sparkling flower of flame,
Blood-red with hearts of white,
’Mid burst of blazing pollen came
And robed the tree with light.
He fell, and in the cloud that lay
Above the wrack, behold
The tree in lissom branch and spray
As lovely as of old
Spread his proud beauty silverly!
And, chiming in our ears,
We heard the wildwcod melody
Of long-forgotten years.
N.S.W.
HUGH McCRAE.
A Motley Ballade.
Sages a-plenty there are who shine
In modern learning and ancient lore;
Science and Art and the Muses nine
Number their devotees spore on score;
“Isms” arid “ologies,” quits and creeds
Lighten but little loan’s load of care;
All of them fail \yljere the Fool succeeds —
Motley! that is the only wear 1
Love and laughter and wit divine!
Man has ever on these set store;
Needs he neither your woe nor mine,
Never so bitterly we deplore;
Sick, sore Lazarus vainly pleads,
Grinning rascality hath to spare;
Wear no willow, away with weeds!
Motley! that is the only wear!
Ever to idols our hearts incline,
Bow we now, as of old, before
Blatant Mammon’s or Moloch’s shrine,
Altars wet with a brother’s gore;
Mammon’s and Moloch’s—Gold’s and Greed’s —
A prosperous priesthood serves the pair;
Only the Fool goes by, nor heeds —
Motley! that is the only wear!
Prince! though want of a world impedes
Your conquering legions, Fame shall blare
Your Jester’s sayings and not your deeds!
Motley! that is the only wear!
N.S.W.
JOHN WALTERS.
A Dil-Emma.
I’m thinking of You, dear, this morning,
And my thoughts they are weary and lame;
You may curse me with loathing and scorning,
But—l cannot remember your name!
The years bring me gladness and sorrow,
But one mournful reflection is this:
Though I think from to-night till to-morrow,
Did we part with a scowl or a kiss?
Chorus: Fortissimo.
For I'm trying so hard to remember,
I try, but it seems all in vain;
Did we meet in July or September?
Was it dry? Were we out in the rain?
For the days are so short and so cheery,
And the beer is so long and so good,
That I cannot remember, my dearie,
Half the things that I certainly should!
You are thinking of Me, dear, at present,
Are your thoughts also languid and tame?
Are you thinking of days that were pleasant?
But —you cannot remember my name!
Have the years brought you gladness or sorrow? —
If they have, will you please tell me this;
Send a “wire” or a postcard to-morrow:
Did we part with a scowl or a kiss?
Chorus: Agitato.
You are trying so hard to remember —
Yes, you try, but it seems all in vain;
Did we meet, dear, in March or December?
Did we dance? Did I step on your train?
For the { girls } are so frequent and many,
And remembrance, my dear, isn’t good;
If I bid for your thoughts with a penny,
Could you think of my name if you would?
VICTORIA.
GRANT HERVEY.


Combination Couch and Bed.
CHANGED INSTANTLY. Size when open, 4ft. x 6ft. 7in.
» V- V V T.-v J» * !
.?• ■»■ V A A } V 1
< “* i i
* >»\> \\\vV^\\vuV
Wan
V 'Bi&*>*'
CLOSED AS COUCH.
! . ...
H
Commonwealth
Patent 12274.
OPEN AS DOUBLE BED.
Cannot get out of order; fs
exceptionally strong and durable.
Just the thing for offices,
small rooms, or where an extra
bed Is required.
* Invaluable for hotels, boarding-
houses, coffee palaces, and similar
establishments.
Can be had fitted with box, to
act as linen press. Three pieces
of furniture In one.
Elegantly upholstered.
CASH PRICES:
In Cretonne, £4 I Os.; In
Tapestry or American Leather,
£5 55. ; in Rexlne, £6 6s. With
Box, 20s. extra.
Patent Rights held by
MARCUS CLARK & Co. Ltd.
SYDNEY.
Rheumatism, Indigestion, Kidney Trouble.
PAGE’S INDIAN COMPOUND
May be obtained from all Chemists and Stores, Price
Wholesale Agents: ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney.
° f di pA t nc°£* ™^ a . n^!? e . t i ,rers ’ Post Free on receipt of price,
PAGE & COMPANY LIMITED, 117 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
2/6
per
Bottle.
The Goldfields Diamond Drilling Co., Ltd.,
339 Collins Street, MELBOURNE, 79 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Boulder Road, KALCOORLIE, W.A.
Diamond Drilling and Water Boring Contractors.
Sole Manufacturers of The Victoria Percussion Drill. Agents for THE SULLIVAN MACHINERY
cu. S Diamond Drills, Air Compressors, Rock and Air Hammer Drills.
Drill. Carbons and Spares for Diamond Drills Stocked. Full particulars and prices on application.
‘Ag'e Doth Not Wither
Nor Custom Stale
• 1 / r : - • - . ' . - ; ' •
T heir ilofinite Utility. ”
MANTLES.
INVERTED'.,
MADE IN
AUSTRALIA
VERTICAL.
hg
Welsbad* Light Co. of Australasia Ltd
302 Pitt Street, Sydney.
380 LONSDALE STREET, MELBOURNE.
102-4 VICTORIA *:SITREET, WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Proved to Assist Digestion beyond any Doubt or Question
a
PURE.
OBTAINABLE
EVERYWHERE
The Largest Distillers
in tHe World.
freebooter
brand JrH
RfOtSTEReo
SqUARE
SCHNAPPS
«T .5
SQUARE
WOOUCE
OF
houamd
PROPRIETORS ~
rorHEdunoi DtSTtuiwes
DEurr Holland
ABDVLIA
CIGARETTES v
In Cigarette fame
“ ABDULLA’S ” the name.
PALQETY&C? LT?
jhg
\
m
Q
■
I
>*
a
• •
Come and LooK
at some of the fine models of motors now in stock at our motor garage—
-136-138 Phillip Street. They represent some of the finest makes on
the market makes which have- a world-wide reputation— and a number
of different types suitable for every class of work.
If you are interested in motors you will appreciate thh fine selection
we can show you. We are Sole Agents for
Delaunay-Belleville,
Daimler, Austin, F.N.,
Schacht Motor Buggy,
Halley Motor Lorry.
If you cannot call, write to us and we will send full particulars of any or all of these.
DALGETY CO. LTD.,
Motor Garage, 136=138 Phillip Street, SYDNEY.


The Bulletin
Registered, at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 32.—N0. 1639.
THURSDAY, JULY 13, 1911.
Prick 6n.
AUSTRALIA’S KID ARMY.
Australia’s army of infants came into formal existence on July 1. The above shows the attitude of
various “patriots” and others towards it, so far as it has gone.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“ Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod,
of Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mos-
man, for The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
Ltd., at the Office of the Co., 214 George-
street North, Sydney, N. S. Wales, Aus-
tralia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES: Business, 1384 Central.
Editorial, 257 City.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
I’er Annum .. .. ..£l6O
Half-yearly 0 13 6
Quarterly 0 7 0
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin
posted regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communica-
tions to be addressed to William Macleod, Manag-
ing Director.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the
paper {and, to an extent, themselves ) by taking
some care as to methods of address.
Business letters {with regard to subscriptions, ad-
vertisements, etc.) should in no case be addressed to
the Editor, but to the Manager. To send them to
the JEditor is to invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters
to anyone by name. “The Editor, The Bulletin/-’ is
the proper superscription for “copy.” Delay, and
is sometimes caused by addressing to per-
sons instead of officials. The person may not be
there; the official always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the " Correspondence” col-
umn all contributions submitted, xuhether in the
form of Political, Social or other Articles, Verse,
Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially accept-
' Paragraphs, Letters or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS.
when the address is specified and stamps are en-
closed. But no MS. will be returned, or preserved,
unless these conditions are observed. When MS. is
forwarded without stamps for return it will be un-
derstood that the copy is to be destroyed if not ac-
ceptable. Personal applications for return of MS.
cannot receive attention. The Bulletin desires,
further, those sending MS. to distinctly understand
that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea,
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any pic-
ture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS. .
The Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on
account of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch {wholesale
agents) to Victoria, West Australia, Queensland,
Tasmania and New Zealand; and on account of
Messrs. Atkinson and Co. and Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide
—at 4/6 per doz. nett.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British
Australasian Office, 115 High Ilolborn, London,
W.C.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town; Dawson and Son, Capetown; The Central
News Agency, Durban, Natal; and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver
8.C.; Irvine and Forsyth, J/lil Hastings Street;
Norman, Caple and Co., Stationers.
U.S.A.—lsserlis A., Seattle, Washington; Inter-
national News Agency, Los Angeles; Chicago News-
paper Agency, 110 Madison Street, Chicago.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port
Said.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Ilohg Kong.
Singapore. — Messrs. John Little and Co.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size
6%in. * U/in., will be forwarded on application.
Larger sizes can be supplied if desired.
Postage Rates.
Single Copies, The Bulletin (Registered as a
Newspaper) : —Throughout the Commonwealth, New
Zealand. Fiji, British New Guinea, Norfolk and Lord
Howe Islands, lUoz. id.; United Kingdom, All Sea
Route, 16oz. Id. — otherwise, Boz. Id., and Sioz. to
10oz., 2id; lOoz. to 120 z., 3d; elsewhere, hoz., Id.,
and Ijd. each additional 2oz.
'xZeiz/n.
THURSDAY, JULY 13, 1911.
THE IMPOSTURE OF AUSTRALIAN
“LIBERALS.”
Bruce Smith, M.P., wrote to the papers the
other day as follows: —
Care must be taken that in the desire to swell the
Liberal ranks that Liberal principles are kept clearly
and constantly in view. It is with a view to freeing
the people generally, the manufacturer, the merchant,
the banker, the shop-owner, the shop-keeper, and the
worker from meddlesome interference by the State,
and by faddists, operating through legislative chan-
nels, that Liberalism has obtained its influence as a
political force. Already the N.S.W. Liberal confer-
ence programme of subjects of debate as published is
largely made up of questionable proposals—that is
from a Liberal standpoint. It is, for instance, pro-
posed to compel citizens to insure their lives, to com-
pel them to close their places of business, to attempt
to fix an arbitrary minimum wage, to restrict the
State to the purchase of locomotives within the State,
to place an arbitrary limit on hours of employment,
to increase the scope of State management of institu-
tions, and to compel people to vote. There are, on
the programme, many other proposals of a distinctly
Socialistic character that could only be put: forward
by delegates who misconceive the true principles of
Liberalism. It should he carefully demonstrated by
those who can yuide the conference that such pro-
posals have no legitimate place in a genuinely Liberal
programme.
hat, then, does Liberalism in Australia
really stand for? Roughly speaking, all those
who are hostile to the Labor party claim to
be Liberals. The squatters and city land-
lords are all Liberals; the big trusts and
monopolies are run by Liberals; importers,
manufacturers and employers of labor gener-
apy are Liberals, _ likewise the majority
ot the property-owning ancients in the nomi-
nee State Chambers ; Dill Macky is a Lib-
eral, and so are the Melbourne Akgus and
Bruce Smith. A fine, reputable word is
Liberal.” Webster describes it this
way:—
Generous, bountiful; not bound by orthodox tenets
or established forms in political or religious phil-
osophy ; inclined to welcome new ideas; friendly to
suggestions or experiments of reform in the constitu-
tion or administration of government; broad-minded,
catholic, free from bigotry.
The obvious antithesis of a Liberal, on that
definition, is the niggardly employer who be-
grudges his fellow-mortal the opportunity to
enjoy the amenities of life. The real Lib-
eral—himself, often enough, a member of a
legal or medical association formed mainly
with the object of keeping up prices for the
benefit of members —does not object to simi-
lar associations among the laboring classes.
He no more thinks of railing at Trades
Unions than he does of assailing the 8.M.A.,
or the Bar Council, or the Law Institute;
and Avhen a navvy talks, in his hearing, of
an arbitrary minimum wage of Bs. per day
for working on the roads, he is no more scan-
dalised than he is when a K.C. mentions to
him that his arbitrary minimum fee per day,
for appearing in (say) a Vend case, is 25
guineas. In the same way, a phrase which
is abhorrent to the Liberal, if he is a Liberal,
is “The time is not ripe.” In his progress-
ive view the time is perennially ripe for re-
form. He does not suffer from nerve-
tremors concerning “experimental legisla-
tion.” In fact, this class of legislation is
his strong political suit. Recognising that
every forward move is in the nature of an
experiment, and that old abuses can only be
remedied by new measures, the Liberal is
always prepared to give a fair trial to any
proposition tha,t looks, on the face of it, rea-
sonable. He is a hater of sectarianism, and
scorns to use the weapon of bigotry for his
political advancement. The spectre of So-
cialism has no terrors for him. He does not
fear mob-government—meaning government
by the people, as opposed to the old system
of government by an infinitesimal fraction of
the people. Owing to all these tendencies,
the true Liberal, all through history, has
been called a Dangerous Revolutionary—a
label fixed on him by opponents who regard
“interference by the State” as an economic
and moral wrong, and rvhose aim is to pre-
serve the status quo at any price.
* * * *
Liberalism, as applied to politics, is of
English origin. It was born of the struggle
over the first Act of Reform in 1832. Id
those days no Briton who lacked the “prop-
erty _ qualification” (i.e., who did not own a
considerable estate), could sit in Parliament.
No one could vote who did not inhabit a
large, expensive house. Voting by ballot
was unknown. The _ Liberal of the ’3o’s —
who was variously stigmatised by his oppon-
ents as a reckless experimentalist, a leveller,
and an advocate of mob rule—held that this
state of things was unjust and absurd. The
strangest objections were lodged against the
Reform Bill. For example, it was contended
that the voting-by-ballot proposal consti-
mted an insult to the nation. “What brave
and honest Briton fears to record his vote
openly?” the opponents of electoral reform
demanded with fine irrelevance —just as here,
the other day, the opponents of Defence re-
form enquired wildly whether any genuine
Boy of the Bull-dog Breed required to be
compelled by law to fight for his country.
One anti-Reform Bill champion prophesied
that the effect on England of the passage of
this measure would be “more disastrous than
the effect of the Revolution on France.” In
the years that followed various Liberals were
to be observed bringing to pass “interferences
by the State operating through legislative
channels,” which drove their Conservative
adversaries to denounce them as faddists and
visionary fools. The Factories Acts were
condemned in the lofty, cocksure tone of
voice that is the hall-mark of the Tory as “a
ridiculous attempt, foredoomed to failure, to
interfere with the inalienable laws of supply
and demand.” So long, it was urged, as
women were willing to work in insanitary
surroundings for a starvation wage, the
State had no right to meddle in the matter.
Most people will remember the uproar that
went up in connection with Harcourt’s
death-duties budget, and all of us recall the
yell of protest that followed Lloyd- George’ s
iast budget. The British people who were
not Liberals railed against these measures in
precisely the same language as the Australian
people who call themselves Liberals railed
against the Fisher Government’s closely
f nalogous land tax measure. Gladstone’s
so-called Socialistic legislation—his Educa-
tion and Parliamentary Reform bills, for
example—aroused a frenzy of protest in the
ranks of Anti-Liberalism. A duke who
owned a fine painting of the old Prime Min-
ister had it torn down as an intolerable thing
to have about the house. W. M. Hughes
is not more loathed in the Melbourne Club
to-day than Gladstone was in the places
where British Tories foregathered 20 years
ago. Liberalism in England is still engaged
“interfering through legislative channels” be-
tween the merchant, the banker, etc., and the
worker. Thus the British Chancellor of the
Exchequer has just introduced a Bill which
not only compels workers to insure against
sickness and unemployment, but orders their
employers to pay a generous proportion of
the premium. And some Liberal measures
that are due in the immediate future are the
Shop Hours Bill (which will place what B.
Smith would call “an arbitrary limitation”
on the hours of employment in shops) ; the
Amended Feeding of School-children’s Bill
(which will provide for free meals in State
schools); payment of members; the Mines
Bill (which will fix an arbitrary minimum
wage and arbitrarily limit the hours of toil
in all British mines) ; and a National Insur-
ance Bill. And when these measures are
disposed of, the problems of an eight-hour
day and a 30s. minimum wage for workers
all over the United Kingdom are to be ap-
proached.
* * # •
Taking these facts ipto ponsidqration. Aus-
tralia is justified in, asking Bruce Smith
and those of his political way of thinking
whether, ip abrogating to themselves the title
Liberals, they are not behaving like frauds
and confidence tricksters. In the past the
bogus Australian Liberal has, anyhow, had
the grace to be disingenuous in his political
attitudes. Thus he did not claim to oppose
old age pensions because the measure was
Socialistic, but because he “feared it would
sap that sturdy independence which is the
Briton’s pride,” and render the working man
wasteful in his habits. Early Closing Acts,
h actories Acts, Compulsory Service, etc.,
were opposed allegedly because they were
"un-English,” or interfered with the liberty
of the subject. And so on. Bruce Smith
frankly jettisons all this cant. The ad-
mitted aim of the section he represents is “to
free the people from interference by the
State operating through legislative channels.”
It amounts to a challenge to practically all
the ameliorative and humanitarian legisla-
tion that has been passed to date, and a noti-
fication that anything fresh along the same
iines will be blocked. The law which forces
manufacturers to provide clean and healthful
workrooms for their employees is a flagrant
example of State interference between master
and man. . The Old Age Pensions Act is
“distinctly Socialistic,” and further flaming
examples of the Socialistic curse are Aus-
tralian railways and Sydney’s trams. Our
tariff restricts Australia to the purchase of
certain articles manufactured within the
Commonwealth, and if the Protectionist party
has its way, the principle will be extended.
Arbitrary minimum wages are being fixed
every day of the week, by Industrial Courts
all over Australia. And to all such mea-
sures the Australian Liberal adopts precisely
the attitude that the British reactionary lias
been adopting towards similar measures in
his own country for the past 80 years. The
time appears ripe to definitely challenge, on
about 47 excellent grounds, the right of these
frauds to a political title which stands for
all the views that to them are anathema.
The votes which rabidly-Conservative politi-
cians like ,7. T. Walker, Bruce Smith,
Pardon (S.A.), Onslow (N.S.W.), and
Eairbairn (Vic.) obtain, under the false
pretence that they are Liberals, are as dis-
honestly come by as the money which a quack
earns on the false pretence that he is a
qualified doctor. Men of their type are no
more Liberals that D’Holbacil, Bradlaugh
and Voltaire were Christians, or than the
members of the Carlton Club, London, are
Radicals, or than Parnell was a Unionist, or
Cardinal Moran a Derryite. In the interests
of decency, honesty, political purity, and all
the other things which our Bruce Smiths
blither about with such nauseating iteration,
the Australian public should slay this im-
posture.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Proposal That the Wowser Must Be
Prevented from Killing.
In the N.S.W. Legislative Council last week
Dr. Mackellar moved "that immediate
steps should be taken by the Government to
establish a hospital, within the city of Syd-
ney, for the treatment of venereal diseases "
In the course of his speech he said :
Venereal diseases, tuberculosis, and alcoholism were
considered the three great afflictions of modern times
and yet the first, which was the greatest evil of
the three in its results to the Community, had so
far been totally neglected, and even its discussion
had been tabooed.
And he went on to advocate not only that a
special hospital should be instituted for the
treatment of venereal diseases, but that “the
Government should make it a sine qua non
of the Government grant that all hospitals
should receive these patients.” Over a quar-
ter of a century ago Dr. Mackellar started a
campaign on the present lines ; but, as he put
it in the Council “a number of busybodies—
clergymen, aldermen, and members of Parlia-
ment - opposed the proposal, on the amazing
ground that “it would interfere with the
punishment of the wrongdoer,” and it was
turned down. It is profitless to repine over
the asylums that have been filled the chil-
dren whose lives have been blasted, the inno-
women who have been destroyed, and
the ghastly damage that has been done to the
national health owing to the triumph of these
imbeciles of a past generation. The present
duty of N. S. Wales and of every other State
is to take all sorts of care that the modern
pi ototypes of the fanatics of 25 years ago
are not allowed to repeat the iniquity of
their predecessors. Successes of the sort can
only be gained in the darkness of ignorance,
so the task that faces the health reformer
is altogether educative. There is nothing
in the cult of witch-burning more grotesque-
The Psalms of the Pharisees.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. Thrower : I know instances in which dairy
farmers sweat their own children. I would give a
Wages Board power to prevent a man sweating his
own family. . . .
Mr. Twaddle: Judge Higgins is not a just Judge.
. . . God help the farmers of Australia if they have
to suffer the restrictions that a man of that kind
would place upon them. God help the whole com-
munity, too !
Mr. Fitzpatrick: God help the country Members!
■—Extracts from Industrial Bill Debate in N.S.W.
Assembly. *
Antiikm.
God help us a11!...0 God of Pharisees,
Patron of wealthy Solomon of old,
Behold us, suppliant upon our knees,.
- The rich, riglit-thinlcing members of Thy
fold!
Our earthly schemes have failed, our judges
prate
Of justice for the loioly and the weakj
Our enemies howl loudly at the gate,
And e'en to wrest our privileges seek.
In our extremity on Thee we' call.
Defend us in our need! God help us all!
Psalm I. — Domine, ne in furore.
1. Rebuke me not, O Lord, nor, in Tliine ire,
Seek vengeance for my small iniquities ;
For 10, Thy hateful enemies conspire
To steal my profits and disturb my ease.
2. Thou in Thy wisdom, Lord, hast e’en or-
dained
The poor shall e’er be with us here
below.
Lord, Thou hast said it; and I ne’er com-
plained,
But strove to aid Thee, that it should be
so.
3. But now mine enemies—and Thine, Lord
-^-strive
To wreck our holy work with impious
schemes ;
And unjust judges in our courts contrive
To help them realise their sinful dreams.
4. My soul is troubled by the workers’ greed;
They mock my pious deeds; my schemes
go wrong;
While evil njen of Satan sow the seed
Of discontent. But Thou, O Lord, how
long?
5. Depart, ye wreckers of iniquity.
I shall prevail! The Lord has heard
my call!
6. Ye shall be smitten, and the triumph see
Of Fat beatified... God help us all!
Psalm II. — Beati, quorum,
1. Blessed are they, thrice blessed in the land
To whom the Lord hath given many
kine ;
And tenfold blessfed he who may command
The toil of olive branches eight or nine.
Blessed the man that ruletli helotry,
Who e’er obey his will for scanty pence,
And labor long, from dawn to dark, that he
May prosper, and extend his bound’rv
fence.
2. Because I was attentive to my kine
The Lord allowed my children to in-
crease,
That they might labor ’mid these beasts
of mine
With respite scant, and know nor joy
nor peace.
3. For day and night they labor at the bail;
And 10, my treasure swelleth, week by
week;
And they grow dull of brain, and wan,
and pale,
The while my good kine wax obese and
sleek.
4. Flesh of my flesh, made helot for the
Beast;
Bone of my bone grown warped with
heavy toil!
5.1 praised the Lord, and, 10, my herds in-
creased,
Al soil GOl> Sent rainS t 0 faU Upon my
6 ‘ 0h A, balm of Gjlead, gushing from the teat!
a j swe i Lt , of helots rising to the Throne !
A daily offering of incense sweet!
(hlesh of my flesh enslaved; bone of
my bone.)
m * ne enemies around me crowd,
lion art my refuge, Lord. Cause them
to fall.
S. Scourge them, that they may cease their
ravings loud ;
And make them much afraid. . . God
help us all!
Psalm lll.— Miserere.
1. Have mercy on me, Lord ; for men of Sin,
Unrighteous men, and judges most un-
just,
Sow treason midst the lowly with their
din,
And seek to rob me of my gilded crust.
2. Restore to me, O Lord, my Sacred Rights;
Smite them that plague me with their
unjust laws ;
3. And I shall teach Thy will to toiling
wights,
And e’en convert the lowly to Thy cause.
4. Behold, Thou hast loved truth ; but, even
now,
These evil men speak lies against my
name;
And in our very courts they brand my
brow —
These impious judges—with the mark of
shame.
5. They seek to wrest the gold Thy mercy
gave
-Even to me, that I might work Thy will,
o- To gild the helot and enrich the slave
And all the coffers of the lowly fill.
7. Hadst Thou desired a sacrifice, O Lord,
I would have given it; for, even yet,
I might compel, from out the toiling horde,
A further offering of tears and sweat.
8. Yet, punish not the lowly and the meek,
Smite, rather, them that make the unjust
laws ;
9. Smite Thou our judges and the men that
seek
With blasphemy to wreck our holy cause.
For see, the weak and humble of the fold,
Without Thy holy aid, I still may bind;
10. For when I play ’gainst them alone, be-
hold.
The dice are loaded, and the throwers
blind.
11. Bind fast the leaders, Lord, who make
these laws;
Give them to be my prey! Lord, hear
my call!
12. With bit and bridle bind Thou fast their
jaws.
Deliver them to me. . . God help us all!
Psalm IV.- — De Profundis.
1. Out of the depths we cry to Thee, O
Lord !
Out of the depths of sophistry and cant!
2. Strengthen our arm, and forge for us a
sword
. To smite them, who complain their
wage is scant.
3. Long have we schemed with cunning,
earthly schemes;
Loud were our voices when we were
assailec|;
Deep were our curses of the helot’s
dreams ;
But, Lord, the wiles of Satan have pre-
vailed !
4. From trench to trench they drove us, ever
back,
And back again, till now, our doom we
see.
Our plans be dust, our privileges wrack;
And now, O Lord, at last we cry to
Thee.
5. Thou art our last, lorn hope. Be, with us
now.
Be Thou attentive, Lord, and heed bur
call.
6. Lord God of Solomon, Thou’dst not Allow
Thy righteous rich to fail!. . . God help
us all !
Anthem.
God help us a11!...0 God of Pharisees,
Turn not away in anger; for heir old!
The plutocrat, at last, ■upon his knees —
The last meek suppliant of all Thy fold!
Ay, hitherto, the needy and the weak :
Have sued with Thee for mercy and for
aid;
Hut now, O Lord, hehold him! fat and sleek,
Cringing for help—because he is afraid.
Lord God of Pharisees, wouldst let him fall
Even as common men? .. .God help us all!
VICTORIA.
DEN.


than the Wowser theory that there are speci-
fic diseases with which a beneficent Creator
has afflicted mankind as a punishment for
sin. Michelet mention that, 700 years ago,
when the King of France set out for Langue-
doc to exterminate the Albigenses, he was in
doubt as to how to distinguish the guilty
from the innocent. “Kill them all,” said an
adviser cheerfully : “God will know His own.”
It is in just this barbarous spirit that the
modern advocates of non-interference with
venereal disease support their case. Heaven is
to be left to discriminate between the just and
the unjust. In actual practice, of course,
Heaven never does so discriminate. The
right-living doctor who attends to the more
serious form of venereal disease is much
more likely to be infected than the knowledg-
able rake; babies are born with it, and per-
fectly virtuous people die or go mad as a
result of it. The Wowser is not necessarily
the callous malignant that his attitude on
this question implies. The main trouble
with him is that he is a congenital ass, and
for the most part an ignorant one. If he
could be brought to realise the meaning of
what he is doing, his opposition would prob-
ably weaken, if it did not die outright. Fail-
ing that, legislators should drive right ahead,
and treat him as though he did not exist.
As a matter of fact, for the purposes of en-
lightened government, he doesn’t exist. He
belongs to the Dark Ages.
The Nation That is Bleeding to Death.
The current issue of the London Economist
mentions that during the past six months,
while £65,230,000 was invested by
British capitalists in foreign countries and
£35,576,800 in the Overseas dominions, only
£16,677,000 was put into Home industries.
It is a whole sermon on the economic sin
which is vitiating Britain. Capital is the
most soullessly cosmopolitan thing on earth.
Where Business is concerned, neither
patriotism nor pity has any place. The
manufacturer who sees a certain profit in
shifting his factory from his native town to
Genoa or Jericho will shift it, without the
least concern, in 99 cases out of 100, for his
fellow-countrymen whose lives may be
blasted by his act. Britain needs fresh
avenues of employment to-day more than at
any time in its history. Its young men are
streaming to the United States, Canada and
Australia at the rate of hundreds of thou-
sands yearly; it has no Arbitration Courts
to fix wages on a generous scale; from the
standpoint of the cheap labor-seeking em-
ployer it is a Paradise. Yet, unemployment
is chronic everywhere, and an army of un-
fortunates, numbering nearly three times the
population of the Commonwealth, is per-
manently in a state of semi-starvation.
Social legislation of the sort the present
Government is bringing forward—Old Age
Pensions, Invalidity and Unemployment In-
surance, etc. —may palliate the prevailing
misery; but it is plain that nothing is going
to do any real good but the provision of
work for those who have to work to live.
And yet for every pound the moneyed Eng-
lishman is putting into job-giving industries
in his own country, he is putting close on
seven pounds into job-giving industries in
the highly protected countries oversea. Re-
garded from the Business aspect, this is legi-
timate and natural, not to say inevitable.
The Briton with cash to outlay in an iron
foundry, or hat manufactory, or steel mills,
or what not, has a strictly-limited market
of 42 millions (a fourth of whom are, prac-
tically, paupers, and consequently useless
as customers) to look to if he invests in his
own country; and he has to compete with
the products of the entire world. By going
with his money, say, to Germany, he gets a
market of 62 million Germans as well as
the 42 million Britons aforesaid; and the
German part of his market is shielded effect-
ively from the cheap labor competition of
the black and yellow races. The capitalist
would need to be more of a patriot than
history shows him to be if he resisted the
lure of the foreign country in those circum-
stances. But while his dividends swell, the
fortunes of his native land wilt. Up to 1880
Germany’s fiscal policy was the same as
England’s is to-day; and the prevailing sen-
timent among the poorer inhabitants was
that the Fatherland was a magnificent
country to get out of—which is the
precise view the later-day Briton of the
working classes holds in regard to his
country. Germany’s population in the ’7o’s
was little more than England’s present popu-
lation ; the nation was as miserably poor
as England was rich, and it manufactured
practically nothing for export. After 30
years of Protection Germany outnumbers
the U. Kingdom by 20 millions; it has no
unemployed problem • its Savings Banks de-
posits amount to 700 millions sterling, as
against Briton’s 210 millions ; and while it
exports to England anything from 10 to 20
million pounds’ worth of manufactured goods
ner annum, the only commodity it takes
from England on a large scale is that coun-
try’s irreplaceable coal.
:
Melbourne’s Tram System.
The Melbourne Tramway Fares Revision
Commission, appointed by John Weary to
save him the toil of coming to a decision on
the matter himself, has decided unanimously
that the time is ripe for doing something em-
phatic. It offered the Government two al-
ternatives. By the first all fares were to
be reduced; by the second the Government
was to buy out the company and have done
with it, create an independent tramway
authority, and institute penny sections
forthwith. The Commission further considers
that the Government, after making the con-
cessions, could pay 4| per cent, interest, and
provide 3 per cent, sinking fund on the whole
of the Trust’s indebtedness, and at the same
time pay higher wages. Finally, it reports
that this State-purchase scheme would “prove
an immense boon to the citizens of Mel-
bourne.” Most sane persons have, no doubt,
reached these conclusions long ago. The
amazing thing about them is that they are
endorsed now bv such men as Swinburne,
of the Metropolitan Gas Co.; ex-Gaud Mayor
Weedon ; MACKINNON, M.L.A., the rail-
sitter with the great future behind him; and
Iveast, M.L.A., estate agent and possessor of
many “interests” and more thousands. These
dreadful Socialists not only recommend the
immediate supersession of the company, but
give convincing reasons for doing so. They
say that the system of fares on the Mel-
bourne tramways is most complicated, con-
fusing and irritating; that the through fares
on many of the lines are higher for the dis-
tances than any others in Australia; that
while Parliament Ims slept on its rights, the
co. has made the most of its opportunities;
that the co.’s profits have been monumental,
ranging from 9.6 to 72 per cent, per annum ,
that sectional fares and extensions ot the
lines are urgently required, and that there
is no hope of inducing the co. to carry out
either, without giving it a further conces-
sion in the shape of an extended lease, which
they don’t recommend. Taking the report all
round, it is the most blistering condemnation
of Private Enterprise, as applied to public
utilities, that the most outright State So-
cialist could have asked for, and the Govern-
ment that doesn’t speedily act on it should
have few days in the land.
Ip a Victorian Gaol.
“Bilbax’s” personal experiences :
A Bulletin paragraph (15/6/’ll) finds fault with
the Victorian Government for prohibiting handker-
chiefs to the prisoners in its gaols. But that’s about
the smallest matter in the hundred barbarities which
I, as an inmate of Melbourne Gaol, have had the op-
portunity of observing. British pre-HowAKD traui-
tions govern Melbourne Gaol, save in those few mat-
ters in which the- methods of Ancient China are pre-
ferred ; and so far from anything curative or reforma-
tory being attempted, its whole system seems care-
fully devised to secure the further physical, mental
and moral degradation of the criminal. Brutal treat-
ment, insanitary conditions, filthy surroundings and
enforced idleness (for oakum-picking doesn’t count,
save as a brain-dulling occupation) are the main
features of the system. I’m writing of three or four
years ago ; but as the hapless, helpless John Mu tut ay,
to whom full report was made, considered the system
good enough, it probably remains unchanged.
When the gaol gates closed behind me I was con-
ducted by an elderly warder, a vilely offensive brute,
to the bathroom, and ordered to strip and bathe. In
the bottom of a huge and dirty bath was an inch of
water of a brilliant orange hue. I hesitated before
stepping in, and inquired what chemical was being
used in the water. “That’s clane wather. Into it
wid ye, an’ no back talk.” Afterwards I learnt that
the pipes, laid in the Year One, were choked with
filth and rust, and that “clean” bath-water in Mel-
bourne Gaol was always of that hue. There being no
escape from this queer initiation ceremony, I stained
myself all over with the fluid, and emerged fittingly
decorated to lead a Twelfth of July procession.
“Shtan’ here! ” roared the old hog, who then, with
a great show of circumspection and sagacity, pro-
ceeded to take my height, weight and marks. Apart
from weight and height, nothing but what would
mislead in identification was noted. A hole. in my
skull escaped; so did two broken ribs, with big knobs
where they had mended. But a trick of contracting
the muscles secured the entry of the libel: .“Two inches
short in the roight leg.”
My cell, about Bft. x 4ft., by 9ft. high, was painted
a dull blood-color, the only evidence of thoughtful-
ness I observed about the place. It was infested
with insects, as I. soon discovered; and when I un-
slung one of the .heavy gaol bluchers to squash the
bugs on the wall, the utility of the color-scheme
made itself apparent. The bed was a heavy wooden
shutter laid on the floor ; two thin blankets its sole
equipment. I’ve camped out in bush, desert and
jungle without experiencing anything so well fitted
to make sleep impossible. I slept sitting, with my
shoulders propped against the wall, and thereby con-
tracted a complaint from which I still suffer.
The only seat in the cell was a box covering the
bucket that served as a closet-pan. This pan was_ re-
moved once in every 24 hours. Needless to expatiate
upon the spiritually elevating and physically up-
building influence of this environment.
The prison clothes I was forced to wear were ap-
parently recently washed, yet stank; and the rag hat
allotted me for wear in the exercise-yard was black
and stiff with the greasy exudations from God knows
how many dirty skulls.
The food was unbelievably bad. For breakfast,
hominy half-cooked; dinner, meat and potatoes, the
meat (boiled) absolutely uneatable by reason of its
toughness, and the potatoes boiled in their jackets
and in their original dirt. The dinner-pail was a
double affair —meat and spuds in the top storey and
some greasy hot water in the lower vessel. This I
took to be an arrangement for keeping the dinner
warm, till the warder, in the impressively measured
and accusatory style, addressed me thus: “Number
—Nine —four—two, Why are —ye —not—eating
your—soup?” Dry bread made the evening meal.
Apparently the bread was made of pollard; it was of
a dirty grey color and heavy. I doubt if any other
institution in British territory could make an exhibit
of worse food than that supplied in Melbourne Gaol.
Lest the confession of this experience damage the
reputation of your contributor, let me add that the
offence for which I. with nearly 30 others, was
gaoled, was a religious one. We preached at the
street corners from the text: “Give us this day our
daily bread.” Said the Beak, in effect, when we
protested against the inconsistency of jugging us and
letting the Salv’army, the Wowsers, etc., stand m
the streets and rave with their backs against the
lamp-posts, from which we had been dragged: “Yes.
But you don’t preach Humility in this life and Hell
in the next. Those are the essentials, legally estab-
lished, for any religion offered to the working-classes.
Anything else is sedition. Forty bob or a month.”
♦
The Papuan Problem.
A keen eye will have to be kept on Papua,
the Commonwealth’s island possession. When
Australia took it in hand the idea was to
demonstrate that a tropical island could be
developed on white lines, with the help only
of the native population. A start was made,
and the inevitable slow progress was noted.
Then came the big land-grabber; and he
wanted —first, last, and all the time —divi-
dends. He wasn’t and isn’t contented with slow
progress. He offered the native work; and
mostly the native took it reluctantly or de-
clined it with no thanks. The planter or
would-be planter sent out his touts to recruit
labor. The tout offered good head-money;
but mostly he came back with a very poor
string of “boys” behind him. Meantime the
planter or would-be planter had floated com-
panies. sometimes with most extravagant
capitalisations, and had promised gorgeous
dividends. It is only possible to make any-
thing like the promised money by using cheap
colored labor wholesale, and giving that labor
far less than it is earning—in other words, by
a system of sweating or slavery, more or less
disguised. That, however, was precisely
what the Commonwealth set its face against
at the outset; therefore, in order to carry out
their scheme, the planters and their friends
now propose that Australia shall make a
complete somersault. A meeting was held
at Port Moresby, the official headquarters, the
other day, at which, among other things, it
was resolved —
That the Immigration Restriction Act be amended
to allow of the introduction of sufficient skilled
labor for the use of plantations until the natives
of Papua have been educated up to tapping rubber
trees, milling hemp and performing skilled work
required on tropical plantations.
That raises the whole Papuan question.
What are we going to do with the Posses-
sion? Are we going to try to develop it in
the interests primarily of the natives of
Papua, deriving some benefit from them
eventually, or are we going to set out to dis-
possess them as we have dispossessed the
natives of Australia? In Java the Dutch
have maintained the natives in the possession
of their land ; they have taught them better
methods ; and they have thus encouraged the
growth of native population with such suc-
cess that in a century the numbers have in-
creased from (say) 5,000,000 to (say)
P. 2,000,000. The big planter is admitted
there only under the most stringent condi-
tions. It is the small native cultivator who
has been encouraged. To say that the Dutch
didn’t pursue this policy with an eye to
their own profit would be absurd. Rut. at
any rate, it can be said of them that, instead
of wiping out a people, they have marvei-
louslv increased that people, and improved
its methods, while we in Australia have prac-
tically wiped out the black brothers who were
here before us. Which plan are we to follow
in Papua? Is the big planter, with his little
army of colored slaves or semi-slaves, to be
put first? If we insist on the rapid develop-
ment of Papua, or if we want an immediate
or early return from Papua, then we must
look to this planter. But if we don’t intend
to go into the land-grab or buccaneering busi-
ness, and propose to try to do with the native
Papuan as the Dutchmen have done with the
Javanese, then the big planter must be
viewed with a cold eye, and his request for
permission to introduce cheap colored serfs
must be turned down resolutely.
What Shall We Do With Mary?
Maby Deniliquin had a brief talk with
P.M. Cbesswell at Melbourne City Court
the other morning, as a result of which the
Salv’army will get the benefit of her services
for the next nine months. Maby had been
following Society’s example and drinking
Geobge’s health, and that was how she
came to be presented to the P.M. on a
charge of being habitually tangled. The law
decided it was to be either Army Home or
gaol—nine months—and Maby, protesting
that “anyone would think she was a terrible
woman —that she had committed a murder,”
accepted the less unpleasant alternative.
But (and here the public falls into the
argument) Maby has been in the Army
Home before, and an officer testified that
she had departed reformed ; so evidently the
Home is little good as a permanent reforma-
tory. She has been in gaol frequently, and
the drink-corrective effect of cold cell and
hominy seems practically nil. So far she
hasn’t been sent to an Inebriates’ Home,
because there isn’t one in the State. There
is one for paying guests at Lara, but that
seems to have developed into a country re-
treat for affluent persons who wish to tem-
porarily apply the brake; and Maby isn’t
affluent. So there is no place for Maby,
other than the Army Home or the gaol, and
one of them has failed already in Maey’s
case, and the other has failed in the cases of
a thousand Maeys. Nevertheless, in spite
of those failures, it is still either the State’s
own gaol or a “home” run by the most ex-
plosive, uneducated, unscientific and wildly
irresponsible of all the sects. Is the State
always to go on in this stupid, hopeless
way?
♦
The Land of the Latest Revolution.
Fbom G. H. Blakemobe, now in those
parts:—
Mexico has been looming large in the world’s cable
news of late, and the better j r ou know the country
the more you wonder at it. The importance attached
to the Mexican “situation” is probably due to the
truth of the old proverb that the world takes you
at your own valuation. For 30 years this republic
has posed as a civilised country, so that the rest of
the world really thinks it is a civilised country; and
Mexico itself now half believes it.
There are two classes of Mexicans, the very wealthy
and the degraded poor, and both classes are steeped
in a superstition as black as that of the Middle Ages.
The peon, or peasant, theoretically a freeman, is in
reality a slave to the wealthy hacienda owner. The
mining cos. have done a great deal to enlighten the
peon as to the value of his labor, but even they take
care not to lift the veil too high. Most mining cos.,
if they are wise, keep a church and a Mexican priest
on the premises, and any strikes or labor disputes are
rapidly settled by the priest—-if his salary has been
kept paid up to date. If it hasn’t, well, what can
you expect ?
The wages of a hacienda peon are about 18 cents
Mexican per day (about 4id). On this a man has
to marry, and rear a family. Of course he can’t do
it; but all the hacienda owners are kind, obliging
people, and they advance any little sums required
by the priest to marry a man or bury his child, so in
the course of a few years a laborer owes probably 50
to 200 pesos to his obliging employer. The peon has
as much hope of ever paying the debt as he has of
flying, and while the debt is unpaid, of course he
can’t leave the hacienda. Still, they don’t call that
slavery in Mexico, because the peon has a vote, which
is always at the disposal of the hacienda owner. The
latter gentleman loves not the foreigner, who comes
in and is foolish enough to pay a dollar per day to
his workmen. And, really, the peon thinks the for-
eigner is a bit crazy, too, because he insists on pay-
ing him 100 cents per day instead of 18 cents, where-
fore he need only Work two days a week. If one
were to raise the peon’s wages to two dollars a day
he would be much obliged, for then he would have to
work but one day a week.
One room, Bft. long, 6ft. or 7ft. wide, and sft.
high, is ample for the peon to rear a family in.
The only possession he prizes is his hat. If he has
any luck he puts the, spare money into a hat that
gets heavier, larger, and more gaudy the more it
costs. That is the most satisfying thing in a Mexi-
can hat: you do get something for your money. If
he had any more money to spare the last thing be
would buy with it would be a bath. No thorough-
bred peon ever washes.
It is quite easy to see the benefits any revolution
will give the peons. To them Madero and Diaz
are all the same. Madero and his family own huge
areas of land, and are reputed to be worth from 40
to 60 millions of dollars, and 1 don’t think are of
the patriotic type who believe in a land tax. Diaz
is 80 odd years of age, and the old tiger has lost his
fangs. So another man and another family see their
chance to get the presidency, with all its opportuni-
ties to make more dollars. And that- is about all
there is to this great “revolution.”
The insurrection has brought to Mexico all the
“wanteds”—- the horse thieves, and cut-throats—of the
U.S. and adjoining countries, and all the professional
revolutionists of the Latin countries; further, it has
given the Yaqui Indians an opportunity to get arms
and ammunition. Generally speaking, Madero has
raised a hydra that will take some scotching, even
if Diaz and he join forces. All the human vultures of
the continent have gathered to prey, and it is more than
doubtful if Madero has the power to call them off
when Diaz steps down and out. Hence it is morally
certain that, for a few years to come, the job of the
new President will be to do what Diaz had to do in
the early years of his reign, viz., put down the count-
less bands of banditti which have again arisen, and
are now trading under the insurrecto flag. Diaz
proved a wily man by turning his banditti into
“Rurales,” who have been his military standby, a lot
of ruthless ruffians in uniform, who hate to see any-
thing living left in their trail. What Mexico wants
badly is a wash once a week, a little less religion,
more wages and more education, and in 50 years its
people may take on in reality the semblance of a
nation.
I was in luarez two or three days after its capture
by Madero’s forces, and saw as picturesque-looking a
lot of bandits, who made up the insurrecto force, as
one could wish for. Their methods of warfare are
strictly Mexican. After capturing one lot of Federal
troops, 25 or 26 in number, who surrendered, they
turned a Maxim on the unarmed men and shot them
down like rabbits. If they could have got hold of
the Federal commander, Navarro, they would have
held an inquest, with him as the principal actor: but
Madero got him across the border into El Paso.
Navarro, at the storming of Casa Grandes, a few
weeks earlier, amused himself by personally killing a
lot of the women and children belonging to the iu-
surrectos; so there may be some excuse for the
insurrectos. At the same time, no matter how hor-
rible a butcher old Navarro is, it is a matter of fact
that no prisoners have encumbered many of the
Federal or insurrecto victories, whoever may have
been the leader; though, to be just to Madero, he
has been a restraining influence with the force di-
rectly under his eye.
Uncle Sam's job seems to me to be to sit tight on
the border, stop his own people from helping either
side, and let the two Mexican parties play at Kil-
kenny cats ; then, when they have mostly exterminated
each other, he should step in and support some reason-
able man who is sure to come to the front during
the struggle.
A Practical Immigration Scheme.
Under the Australian Copyright Act (1905)
protection is given, whether the author is a
British subject or not, to any book published
in Australia; also British authors and pub-
lishers stand on the same legal footing here
as our own men. The question arises
whether the time is not ripe to inaugurate
a state of things that is better business for
Australia, and fairer to Australian writers,
printers and publishers. Before the Chace
Act of 1891, English authors could not by
any means obtain copyright of their produc-
tions in the United States; nor could Amer-
ican writers protect their interests in Eng-
land. The writings of Bret Harte and
Mark Twain were printed and sold in the
United Kingdom without benefiting the au-
thors to the extent of a red cent, and the
works of well-known Britons were similarly
treated in America. In fact, complete free-
trade in brains prevailed between the twc
countries. The writers found it intoler-
able, and the public, when it grasped the
strength of the business, agreed that it was
inequitable, and so a protectionist arrange-
ment was arrived at. In 1909 America
passed an Act of Congress which declared
that alien authors or proprietors might enjoy
the benefits of the U.S. Copyright Act, pro-
vided (1) that their country of origin gave
U.S. citizens the benefit of C9pyriglit on sub-
stantially the same basis as its own citizens,
and (2) that the said authors or proprietors
printed and published the -t corks desired to
he protected in America as well as in their
own country. Britain recognised the horse-
sense of this proposition, and now the Ameri-
can author who wishes to obtain copyright
in England may get it by printing and pub-
lishing there as well as in the United States.
Owing to this legislation American firms
like Scribner’s, McClurg and Co., Hough-
ton, Mifflin, etc., have started branches in
England, and John Lane, McMillan and
Co., and the rest of the big British firms
have done likewise in America. What is
wrong with Australia coming into line with
Britain and America in this regard'? The
answer is “Nothing; absolutely nothing. ’
Let the Commonwealth Parliament pass a
law making it obligatory on every British
or American author who wishes to secure
copyright in this country, to print, publish
and register here. There would be no fear
of really popular overseas authors boycot-
ting Australia; and it would be to no one’s
interest to pirate the unpopular ones. Local
printers and publishers would thus get an
immense increase of business, which would
be all to the benefit of local writers. And,
finally, compositors, proof-readers, machin-
ists —all the thousand and one operatives
that are employed in the printing and pub-
lishing trades —would find employment.
Practical job-giving measures like this do
more to promote immigration than oceans of
oratory and miles of press correspondence—-
a fact which the U.S. discovered to their
great advantage years ago.
♦
Maoriland’s Latest Disgrace.
The hanging of the 17-year-old Maori boy,
Tahi Kaka, during the Coronation festivi-
ties has, with good cause, shocked the better
part of the public conscience, and a clamor of
protest is rising everywhere in the Dominion.
The jury’s recommendation to mercy should
be an unbreakable safeguard to a life. It is
part of the kernel of the judgment; it is the
grave decision of the people, represented by
12 chosen men, that, though guilt has been
established, the circumstances do not war-
rant the extremity of punishment. With
what feelings of repulsion do we look back
to the days when 40 or 50 unfortunate
wretches were frequently passed from a
single assize to the perspiring hangman for
minor offences; to that period of which it
was properly said that “the enormous and
undigested multiplication of capital offences
made the criminal code a mere sanguinary
chaos” ; to our own recent times, when the
blood was never dry on the brutalising and
worse-than-useless lash ! And with what simi-
lar disgust will a more enlightened to-morrow
view a body of men of to-day who press
down the vengeance of a barbaric law, and
hang like a sheep a prisoner—a mere lad —-
who has been entrusted to their mercy by a
responsible jury of his countrymen ! To that
recommendation of the jury ; to all the indi-
vidual appeals; to all the prayers of all the
deputations, the Executive Council merely
replied that there were no extenuating cir-
cumstances which would justify clemency.
Every humanitarian and logical argument
failed to loosen a fraction of their grip on
the key of the condemned cell until the hang-
man called round for it with the rope in his
pocket. Summed up, the whole shocking
business comes to this: (1) A jury’s recom-
mendation has been flaunted, and Tahi Ivaka,
the Maori boy who killed a man, with God
knows what contorted brain-promptings, lies
with a broken neck in a lime-pit; (2) the
murdered man is still dead; (3) the chances
of the Law’s, revenge acting as a deterrent
have been proved to be equal to .00; (4)
the hangman has long ago spent his fee in
beer or raw meat; (5) good oil has been
wasted on the rope to keep it supple which
might have gone to trim a student’s lamp :
and (6) civilisation hasn’t moved forward
worth a tinker’s curse.
♦
The N.S.W. Farmers and Settlers’ Ass. is
just starting its annual conference; and, in
view of its declared opposition to Socialism,,
this paper calls upon it to be consistent.,
show its belief in its own alleged principles,,
and throw out the proposals asking the State-
to build freezing works, to carry lime 200'
miles free of charge, to remove the sale-
yards at Flemington and take them under
Government control, to establish a chair of
dairying at the University, to assist shire-
councils by more subsidy, to give easier
terms to cocky to borrow State money, and'
various other ruinous Socialistic things..
State interference with Private Enterprise
is a curse, so interference with private-
people who want to build freezing works,,
and carry lime for nothing, and run sale-
yards, and lend cheap money, etc., must be-
a curse. And this paper calls on the Farm-
ers and Settlers to either put the curse down,
or leave off being a humbug and a hypocrite,
and quit throwing gibes and other bricks at
the Labor party.


Laxo-Tonic Pills
are both Laxative and Tonic in action. They do not
gripe, but do their work quickly, effectively, and
painlessly. Sold at 10£d. and Is. 6d.*
B
EARD’S British = Built Bioscope,
second to none. Sole Agents—Jerdan’s
Ltd., 393 George Street, Sydney. Let us send
you particulars.*
HARRINGTONS LTD.,
The Cinematograph
Supply House.
The largest assortment of CINEMATOGRAPHS AND
FILMS always in stock by the World’s best makers.
If you want to procure a better supply of Films than
you are obtaining- at present, get into'communication
with us and state your requirements. Our Film
Library is the largest In the Commonwealth.
We are the people to give you satisfaction.
SYDNEY-MELBOURNE—BRISBANE—ADELAIDE.
MORE INVINCIBLE FACTS.
Mr. R. M. Evans (Plattsburg) writes: “My
boat is 22ft. long by sft. lOin. beam, and is fitted
with one of your 4-h.p. Motors. The speed is
about miles an hour, and she is the smartest
boat driven by a 4-h.p. motor on Lake Macquarie.
The consumption of oil is very low indeed. I
cannot praise it sufficiently in writing. I can assure
you that she is without doubt the cheapest and
most reliable motor running up this way. I have
not had one minute’s trouble with it since the
day you handed it over to me. I will be most
happy to show anybody the engine, and prove to
them that what I say is correct.”
INVINCIBLE Engines are Absolutely Reliable.
Invincible Motor Construction Co., Ltd.,
Works : WOOLWICH DOCK, SYDNEY.
Showrooms: 35 Pitt Street, Sydney: 519 Little
Collins Street, Melbourne ; Bank St., Adelaide.
Franz Josef
Lag'er Beer
SparKling',
Refreshing,
Exhilarating'
and Pure.
Franz Josef possesses the true Lager quality
and character, being sharp, clean, and of
light gravity.
From the Bar table :
What ails the disgruntled Wade, V.C. ? For six
years while he was Attorney-General he talked law
reformit was even a plank in his platform. Hol-
Man_ brings in two excellent measures, which the
Bulli hero must oppose out of sheer cussedness. The
Criminal 1 Appeal Court has been a pronounced suc-
cess in England for many years, and if Wade had
only thought of it while he was in office, he would
have established one; but, as it is not his Bill, he’ll
oppose it on any old ground. Why the prerogative
of mercy is better exercised by a Minister who is
looking for votes than by Judges who are permanent
and secure, isn’t explained by Wade. The other
measure goes far to remove the worst evil of litigation
—delay. Under Wade’s system, at least four Judges
go on circuit twice a year. During this time the
Courts are closed to litigants in Sydney. Cases may
be .part-heard, but they must be hung up while the
Judges trot round to circuit towns, where possibly
there is no work for them. Holman’s idea is to
keep the Courts going all the time in Sydney, so
that there need be no unnecessary delay. No doubt
this means an increase in the number of Judges;
but that must happen in any case. While Wade
was in office representations were often made to
him by the various law societies as to the congestion
of business in the Courts. He certainly appointed
acting-Judges from time to time, three or four for
the Supreme Court and five or six for the District
Court. But he allowed the congestion in the Equity
Court to grow until it became a scandal, and
Holman had to appoint an acting-Judge to help to
reduce the arrears. In fact, three Judges have been
sitting in this jurisdiction, and two permanent Judges
are absolutely necessary for the branch. No doubt
it was Wade’s long absence from or unfamiliarity
with the Courts, that prompted him to say in the
House that the Judges were sufficient to deal with
the business, as no doubt also it was his sportsman’s
instinct which induced him to refer to their pensions.
What if he had appointed himself!
A farmer is a man who grows wheat and
nurses a grievance. So far as Victoria is
concerned his latest trouble is that the wheat
bags he uses are not up to standard ; where-
fore, at a conference at Shepparton the other
day, he (with his usual anti-Socialistic de-
sire to get the State to do something for him)
decided to ask the Federal Government to
have bags graded and marked by a colored
woven thread. In other words, Australia is
to be besought to set its official seal upon the
jute products of the cheapest-labor factories
of India. Instead of doing anything of that
sort, this paper invites the Government to
consider the following facts: —
(1) At present Australia imports 94 per cent, of
the bags it uses, the value of which importations was
£1,411,609 in 1909 and £1,840,983 in 1910.
(2) These bags are practically all made by black
labor in Calcutta, at an average wage of 9d. per day.
(3) So long as the Fisher Government permits
these importations, on which there is no duty, its
claim to maintain the policy of White Australia is
mere snuffle and sham.
(4) There is no need to heed the poor farmer and
his cry for cheap tools of trade, so that he can com-
pete in the world’s markets, because Canada,
America and Argentina also compete in these mar-
kets, and their Customs duties on bags are 35, 45
and 40 per cent, respectively.
Seeing that these are ancient and notorious
facts, and that Andrew Fisher and his
Ministers profess themselves Protectionists
and White Australians, it is up to them,
when the Shepparton farmers ask for the
“grading” regulation, to explain their atti-
tude and indicate what their White Aus-
tralia and Protectionist policy is really
worth.
A gifted logician is Joseph Ward, Bart.
Addressing an audience in London, last
week, he arrived at the remarkable conclu-
sion that the policy of equipping and main-
taining fire brigades in the various cities and
towns of the British Empire was absurd and
altogether valueless. His view was that
there should be one great fire brigade sta-
tioned in the heart of London, under one set
of brains, and having the one object of saving
the mother city from being overwhelmed in a
conflagration. what would be the use of
haying fire brigades in Sydney or Auckland
if Whitechapel started to blaze? No good
at all, because they could not haul the steam
pffmps across the ocean in time to get the
hoses to work; and if the fire got a good
hold, and cleaned Britain out from Land’s
End to the Shetland Islands, there would he
no pawnshops to do business with; and
Chnada, Australia, South Africa, and all the
other dominions would then have nothing to
do but impale themselves on the point of
their respective I O IPs. The remarkable
bart.’s exact words were:—
Personally, he had always urged one great navy,
under one set of brains, in one place. What was the
use of talking about local navies? The trouble
would be over before they could act. They would
have no earthly use if the Motherland were over-
whelmed.
Sometimes The Bulletin is inclined to go
some of the way with lou, and wonder what
is the use of having local Premiers, any-
how.
Bendigo, which jobbed away its street-tram-
way rights to the usual syndicate, is now in
the old trouble —it wants a better service
and can’t get it. The syndicate undertook
to carry the lines to various more remote or
less thickly peopled parts in a reasonable
time; but the reasonable time never ripens.
Lately the council prodded the co. again,
whereupon the co. replied that the employees
were claiming more wages and fewer hours,
and “if the claims made are upheld, it would
be impossible for anyone to work such an ex-
tension except at a very grave loss.” The
council didn’t reply that when the syndicate
got its concession it had no right to assume
that it would always be allowed to sweat its
workpeople ; in fact, it didn’t make any re-
ply worth mentioning at all. It didn’t even
admit (out loud) that it had made a fool of
itself by allowing a syndicate to come in;
and it didn’t remark that, if Public En-
terprise had done the work, some lines
would be built, even if they didn’t show an
immediate profit, the profit from the most
profitable lines going to the assistance of the
temporarily unprofitable ones. Private En-
terprise, on the other hand, wants to grab
profits when it sees them. In fact, that is
what it goes into the business for.
Dead, at 49, William Hordern, nephew of
old Anthony, cousin of Sam, deceased, and a
good one of a good tribe. He became a
lawyer, because his father desired that the
well-provided young man should have a pro-
fession ; and he practised after a disastrous
failure at cattle-raising in Queensland, where
he was blown out by tick and red-water,
lie was a man so wondrously kind that,
having acted for the “other side” against
Arthur Dacre and Amy Roselle (and having
acted so kindly that the insanely-sensitive
Dacre sent for him to thank him for his way
of doing things), he left his profession when
Dacre and Roselle suicided, and became office
partner in a Melbourne stockbroking firm.
Later he went back to law, and then to
death, in his prime.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Hamlet”
Royal “ The Balkan Princess.”
Criterion “ The Gay Grisette. ”
The Mother of His Child.”
A,vou Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Palace West’s Pictures.
Princess West’s Pictures.
Lyceum Spencer’s Pictures.
Town Hall Antonia Dolores.
National Amphitheatre Brennan’s Vaudeville Co.
Lyric Continuous Pictures.
Colonial (Nos. 1 & 2).. Continuous Pictures.
Glaciarium Ice Skating.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “Lovers’Lane.”
Her Majesty’s “Our Miss Gibbs.”
Royal “The Witness for the Defence.”
King’s “ The Man from Outback.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co,
Olympia Spencer’s Pictures.
Glaciarium Ice Skating.
Lyric, Prahran Photo Plays.
West’s Palace West’s Pictures.
H. B. Irving’s “Hamlet” has stirred such
enthusiasm in Sydney that it is to be
played at Her Majesty’s for a week longer
than was intended ; namely, till the 21st
inst. “The Lyons Mail” will follow.
** * *
“The Balkan Princess” continues to
tread the primrose paths of starvation in
the Bohemian Restaurant at Sydney
Theatre Royal. She has spurned 32 conse-
cutive steaks to date, without damage to
her voice or figure, and proposes to go on
in this fashion indefinitely.
** * *
“The Gay Grisette” is flourishing at
Sydney Criterion. The stalls are filled
nightly with inefficiently-disguised Wowser
clerics. They are understood to be there
primarily with the object of seeing them-
selves as Tom Graves sees them ; incident-
ally their interest in the show-ladies and
in Miss Imeson’s figure in her Cupid turn
is warm and unaffected. In addition to
the Wowser the mere layman is crowding
to this show with his best opera-glasses.
** * *
Sydney Adelphi will cease “Driving a
Girl to Destruction” on Friday night. After
that date, the lady will have to walk or pay
her own cab fares. “The Mother of His
Child” will make her appeal on Saturday;
and the jury is expected to fill the vast
playhouse where George Marlow twangs
beautiful golden melodies on the heart-
strings of the public.
“ HAMLET,” at HER MAJESTY'S (Sydney).
Hamlet (H. B. TRYING) writes a little melodrama that worries the King (FRANK TYARS)
Antonia Dolores is steadily singing her
way through the country to Sydney, amidst
the regrets of those music-lovers she leaves
behind, and the satisfactory anticipations of
those to come. The Sydney season opens
at the Town Hall on Tuesday next, and is
expected to be the last in this city before
the singer sails for London.
* * * *•
Sousa, after searching Victoria and South
Australia for the elusive Kelly, returned to
Sydney on Monday to tell about a bird that
flew away. He tells it as Wagner, Beet-
hoven, Mozart, Haydn, and other masters
would, and makes a quaint and interesting
fantasia out of it. For the rest Sousa is
still Sousa as Sydney knew him a month
ago, and the band is the same band with
the fine capacity for hitting the audience up
with lively march music. After Saturday the
whole outfit will fold itself up in the big-
gest trombone, and look for Kelly (and in-
cidentally Dollars) somewhere else.
** * *
The Union S.S. Co.’s boat Marama steams
into the Sundry Shows column this week
through its unpardonable failure to land
Sydney Tivoli’s latest-imported turns in
time to be noticed. Binns and BinnS, musi-
cal comedians, and Alcide Capitaine, whom
the advt. describes as “The Perfect Lady
Gymnast—a Study of Grace and Physical
Culture,” were to have reaped their first
crop of applause last Saturday; but owing
to the boat’s late arrival, the first harvest
had to be postponed for some nights. Con-
sequently, when this paper looked in at the
Castlereagh-street house on Monday even-
ing, Alf Holt was about the brightest star
in the firmament. Holt can imitate almost
every sound but the tinkling, rustling noise
made by the National Debt piling up and
the gravel-scattering rush of Capital leaving
the country.
** * *
Toby Claude, songstress, and Anita Diaz,
monkey-subduer, are still at the head of the
bill at the National Amphitheatre. A
feature of this house is the encouragement
that it gives to local talent. Public
“trials” occur every Friday night. Anyone
may perform, and the arbitrament, as in
ancient Rome, is with the audience. If the
spectators turn down their thumbs, or, in
modern phraseology, give the artist “the
bird,” the stage is plunged in kindly dark-
ness, and the rejected one is pushed off and
Scripturally counselled to go and sin no
more. There are good points about this
system. It not only unearths a vaudeville
gem here a.id there, but acts as a blight on
the conceit of the incompetent, thus giving
countless suburbs cause to rejoice.
** * *
The J. D. Williams picture theatres are
this week starring “Cowboy and Indian
Frontier Celebrations,” which recently had
the personal attention of Roosevelt at Chey-
enne, Wyoming. The celebrations appear
to have been mostly a huge Wild-West cir-
cus, with 1800 cowboy performers; and the
crowd that likes something with a buck in it
gets a chance to simply wallow in that ex-
citement.
* * *
West’s Pictures at the Palace and Prin-
cess Theatres (Sydney) are as varied as
the film markets of the world will permit,
and a good selection brings its own reward
nightly. The lot of the picture-show
manager is becoming harder every day, and
the time appears handy when there will be
nothing new under the lens. Little seems to
have been overlooked in the past, except a
moving picture of the Devil being thrown
out of his residence and the bailiff smoking
a clay-pipe on the doorstep. As to the
future, so many rights have been reserved
that unless an arrangement can be made to
cino. the rage of Peter on being wakened
from his sleep by Souls returning from the
club and banging on the gate with dinted
halos, or the Peris winking through the
picket-fence of Paradise, the picture show-
man has a miserable outlook. Meanwhile,
Manager Edwin Geach is keeping up with
the procession.
* -x * *
Spencer’s “star” picture, “The Crusa-
ders,” now being shown at the Lyceum
(Sydney), can safely be described as one of
the most elaborate samples of the cinemato-
graphist’s art yet unrolled in Australia.
The cost of production must have been
enormous, and the only flaw that this paper
can find in the net result is its undue
length. A trim-up which would eliminate
the scene of the absurd “lower regions”
would put the finishing touch on a fine film.
Most of the leading characters of Crusade
tradition are introduced —Godfrey, who on
one occasion raised about 90,000 men to slit
throats in proof of saintliness and chivalry ;
Peter the Hermit, who stumped the Teu-
tonic countries carrying a huge cross on
his shoulder and murder in his words; Tan-
cred, and the rest of the misguided gang.
After seeing the massacre that follows their
capture of Jerusalem, one can almost be-
lieve the historical statement that the
horses of those who rode to the mosque of
Omar were up to their knees in blood. Any-
how, one sees Christianity in its most
notorious mood. The picture will be on
view till further notice.
** * *
An actress of striking ability as the central
figure in a refined performance of comedy
drama happens so rarely to Australia that
one is unwilling to doubt the success of
Ethel Irving’s first production at Melbourne
Iloyal. But “The Witness for the .De-
fence” is probably too sombre in tone,
too crudely Sardou-like in construc-
tion, and too utterly English upper-
middle-classy in interest, to attract the
crowd that takes its entertainments not
too seriously. It is a play which begins
with a brutal husband in a chronic state of
jim-jams, and ends with his suffering relict's
release from her foolish intention to kill
herself —a two-scened play of modern man-
ners and polite society that demands to be
closely watched and attentively listened to,
and, after all, offers the audience nothing
really admirable except the acting of Ethel
Irving and Co.
Not that A. E. Mason’s play lacks an air
of realism. What it chiefly wants is some-
thing positively stirring to human nature in
the commonplace. Stella (Ethel Irving), a
gentlewoman of the clingsome, subjective
type, shoots her drunken husband dead in
their tent at Rajputana because he terrifies
her when she has a gun in her hand. No-
body saw the tragedy, but her former sweet-
heart has reason to feel pretty sure that hers
was the hand that pulled the trigger. Being
a barrister, and, therefore, a sound, well-
educated liar, this ex-sweetheart (Thresk)
C ?k IPS ? tellas tri al with a story of an-
other hand—a brown Indian hand which
had existed only in the jim-jams of the mur-
dered man. Thus he saves the lady from
eormetion. But she is too weak to he cap-
abl,'-; of <* ee P gratitude. She returns to her
native England, pursued by the story of her
iate husband a mysterious end, and there she
clings to a 30-year-old youth whose silly old
dad, being a professional humanitarian, has
invited her to his house on account of her
tnai for murder. His humanitaria msm does
not go for much. When it comes to a matter
of taking Stella for a daughter-in-law, the
old un conspires with his brother, who is a
lawyer, to invite Thresk down to his place
and burst up the theory of the woman’s in-
nocence, if possible. Barrister Thresk arrives
and cleverly justifies his evidence for the de-
tence; but in a long midnight interview,
held under stagey conditions, the lady tells
£ rue f tory -n of b ? r P ard OD a ble
crime, and hopes he will remain pleasant and
perjured in spite of the new young man. The
barrister s jealousy, however, takes the form
ot a virtuous resolve to tell the whole truth
and break oft Stella’s engagement. Mean-
while, she has taken the precaution to get
secretly married to her long-nosed lover,
and after a couple of rather forced situa-
tions have further protracted her sufferings,
lu ?S e< l to her husband’s bosom, whilst
the barrister peacefully withdraws. His
jealousy had never been rudely alluded to
during the discussions. If it were fully dis-
played in melodramatic limelight, the play
would perhaps seem stronger to the many
who would rather have dramatic facts hur-
led at their understanding than left to their
imagination.
* * *
Irving is the true and lawful occu-
pant ot Stella's charming gowns and effec-
rn^e She is the tall and willowy It.
±he character comes easy to her smooth
sweet voice, her wide range of troubled or
careless facial expressions, and her great
depth of feeling for the womanly art of de-
ception. Miss Irving is the born exponent
ot such parts—and of many others, per-
haps. There is nothing of the high-falutin’
heroine about Stella. She is just a weak,
womanly syren, who means no harm, and is
ready to shake the paw that belts her if it
doesn t belt her too much. The company
all round makes a favorable first impres-
sion. H. Hobbes, as soon as he warmed to
his work on Saturday, was an interestingly
drunken husband. The Thresk (S. Ewart)
ot the long duologues and triologues is a
clean-cut actor, fairly strong rather than
tremendously powerful; the serio-comic old
lather is well played; likewise his relative,
the unpleasant lawyer, who, however, needs
to sharpen his staccato enunciation and
stick the ends of his words into the audi-
ence s hearing. And the boy of 30, who
rises to the occasion at the finish, acts his
part better than he looks or speaks it. Bri-
tain seems to be now raising a crop of rest-
less, angular, hard-spoken stage lovers in
succession to the sugary sentimental gurg-
lers of yore.
X *■ * x
nr“f? UT Gibbs” celebrated her 60th
Melbourne birthday this week, and the ad-
vertisement states that over half a million
have seen her since she started to learn the
drapery business in Sydney. Also, the
same number of people have witnessed the
alarming garments of her male cousin from
xarkshire, and it seems probable that the
number will be doubled ere the young man’s
brass instrument has sounded its last trump.
** * *
In Lovers’ Lane,” at the Melbourne Prin-
cess s, dramatist Clyde Fitch avoids the des-
picable modern habit of being ingenious,
laking a group of second-rate people, he
dumps them in a scene appropriate to their
outness, and makes them live and love, wail
and weep, according to common dramatic
laws. The principal personage is a jolly
parsem whose mental excesses include dis-
belief in a material Hell. Added to that
gross and curious heresy, he offends his folk
by playing the benevolent soul with pomp,
and securing a wife from an outside town,
xhis causes. trouble, which Fitch gradually
disperses by forcing his puppets into deeds
ot pardon and propitiation. Taken alto-
gether they are remarkable beings, for then-
even dreariness gives a certain sort of weird-
ness to their unimportance. The best of
them is probably the parson, easily acted by
Harry Plimmer. Yet the figure has a fair
suggestion of the marionette, and he is only
original inasmuch as he finds the world so
addicted to telling the truth that he thinks
it a virtuous revolt against monotony to try
t? tell an occasional lie. In that respect he
differs irom Mary Larkin (Miss Myra
V\ all), who has developed a horrible
love for the accurate. Simplicity Johnson is
played by Miss Lizette I’arkes, who makes
the part so human that it seems unreal.
Miss Valentine Sidney appears as Miss Mat-
tie, and Mrs. Brough pictures Mrs. Wood-
bridge with all her incorrigible cleverness
and native charm. Among the others A. E.
Greenaway is a very old man, who merely
acts for the sake of politeness ; while Harry
Sweeney, as Herbert Woodbridge, shows a
taste for the grandiose in speech and socks.
xx x *
At the King’s, to-morrow evening, “The
I avorite” will run its last race, and Bert
BaiJey will cease to frivol as a hopelessly


Scares such as the German eruption in
Morocco are apt to be disquieting except
to the strong nation confident in its pre-
paredness. And the strongest nations are
those which seek daily guidance from in-
spiring counsels with D.C.L. wisdom. A
beacon light to the world is the nation
which reinforces its wisdom by illuminat-
ing moments with D.C.L., the Whisky of
the Wise.*
Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
*
Lowest Rates Charged.
’Phone No. 238 Central.
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED,
PITT AND KINO GREETS, SYDNEY.
FIRE ACCIDENT, EMPLOYERS’ LIABILITY, PLATE GLASS, Etc.
Settlements Prompt and Equitable. G. HOWARD POPE, Manager.
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman.
wicked German valet. On Saturday W.
Anderson revives “The Man from Outback,”
the Australian play by the authors of “The
Squatter’s Daughter.”
** * *
The second Ibsen performance by Gregan
McMahon’s actors may be considered an em-
phatic success in having drawn a full house,
and in retaining sufficient of the vivid in-
terest of the remarkable array of personali-
ties old Henrik assembles in this soul-stirring
play. F. Norris’s Borkman was weirdly
reminiscent of dear, departed J. Superbus
Knight’s Napoleon in his most dyspeptic
humor; voice and gesture were almost iden-
tical, and the budding pro. even cast atti-
tudes that are the copyright belongings of
Julius Bonaparte. But, for all that, Bork-
man was fairly and faithfully rendered, the
disused banker and the exploded emperor
having much moody melancholy and other
characteristics in common. The best per-
formance of the evening was Miss Lanswell’s
Mrs. Borkman, cold, hard and ambitious.
This nicely-judged, restrained and accurate
piece of work was good enough for any
stage. Miss Handley’s Frida, pleasantly
girlish, was simply but ably done. J. Fowler’s
Foldal showed juvenility under his whiskers,
but not a litle native talent lurked behind
the impersonation. The Elia of the occa-
sion, though it halted somewhat now and
then, had many good points, and Miss
Jolliffe bore an exacting part to a worthy
conclusion. On the whole, McMahon’s ven-
ture has justified itself, and lias roped in a
public of its own, numerous enough to give
the prospects a pleasant flush. The next
batch of higher art is due in September.
“ THE FAVORITE"
AT
MELBOURNE
KING’S.
BERT BAILEY
as
Ludwig Straus.
TEMPLE
HARRISON
as
a racing
tout and
thief.
Marguerite Ismay with her Girls, Define
<m the eternal wire, and the substitution of
Dawson for Bluett, are comparatively re-
cent events at the Opera House. Other-
wise the bill is what it was in the ante-
Goronation time —which seems so long, long
ago—Lamberti, the Musical Master, and
Reichen’s select party of Dogs being the
bill’s dominant features.
** * *
In the Melbourne musical world the talk
which lately centred in the topic of pianist
Borwick has turned towards the imminent
Sheffield choir. The Choir is due to invade
the city next Saturday, and in the evening
its 200 voices will be raised to the glory of
“The Messiah” in the Exhibition Building,
where the strains of Sousa’s departed Band
are still lingering in dark corners. The. Ex-
hibition Building is a suitable occasional
receptacle for great musical events, and the
Choir, as everybody knows, will greatly
eventuate there for a week or so. After
which those citizens who missed this famous
mass of harmony will deplore the loss of
their opportunitv.
'** # *
Last week’s show at Melbourne Olympia
was dignified by the inclusion of a picture
concerning Robert: Emmet, whom Ireland
honored and England killed. A good film
afforded some glimpses of the recent run for
the English Derby, and another depicted A.
J. Balfour setting off on an aeroplane stroll
among the stars. The “drama” was “The
Daughter of Virginia,” a tale of the Yankee
Civil War, which, as usual, made the
Southerners heroes and the Northerners
people who ought to be ashamed of them-
selves.
* * *
The Taits occupied the Melbourne Town
Hall last Saturday night with a considerable
bundle of pictures and a linen screen. “The
Lyons Mail” was among the films; “Troop-
ing the Colors” gave splendid views of mar-
tial rites and marching legs; the audience
was introduced to the “Porcelain Industry,”
and was interested ; and finally “Dreams of
Onions” took its breath away.
** # *
Melbourne’s comic opera co. of amateurs,
which has already survived three ventures,
is now about to establish itself or blow it-
self into oblivion with a plucky production
of “Miss Hook of Holland,” by arrange-
ment with C. and M. The amateurs, with
F B Smith as director and Cyril Brinkley
behind the baton, have engaged the Prin-
cess’s for a whole week, and will bait their
“Hook ’.’ on Saturday, the 22nd.
Adelaide Royal is being crowded by that
remarkable “Bad Girl” who isi not
all except when someone over lie
The acting all round is good—-consideraDij
too good for the play. At the Tivoli are the
magnetic Perezoffs, juggling and break *
china at Maxims; also Daly and O Bnen,
also Miss Peggy Pride, w b° se , cbarms are
somewhat more mature, and wh<^ e
humor is even more ripe than it was ten
years ago. The rest is “Pictures and con-
certs —Orpheus, Lyric, Glee Club or Uni
versity G'onservatorium.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“L.H.P.”: Apropos the complained-of “cutting” of
“Hamlet.” Some 12 years ago, at the Memorial
Theatre, Stratford-on-Avon, Frank Benson did the
tragedy in its entirety; but it took the whole after-
noon and evening of a memorable Monday. The
afternoon show closed with the play scene; and in
the evening the curtain rose on the fourth act, with
the guilty king making vain efforts to pray. Benson
was the Hamlet, and Australia was well represented
by Cscar Asche, who did the King. It was said at
tiie time that never since Shakspeare’s day—the
last-recorded performance was in 1604 —-had the
tragedy been previously given in its entirety.
“Spotlight”: When “Polonius” next goes to “Ham-
let” he ought to keep awake. lie writes (B.
6/7/’ll) that the speech to the players has been
knifed. Abodt five lines—the reference to the clowns
speaking more than is set down for them—is all that
is excised, and that is not very remarkable. The
beautiful speech on friendship which he quotes as
not spoken by Irving is given in its entirety. “Ham-
let,” of necessity, is always cut; Benson did it once
in extenso, and it todk 10 hours. “Polonius” is
evidently the .sort of person who would enjoy living
in China. There he can get a play that runs about
a decade.
“L.H.P.”: Most of the old traditions have dis-
appeared from Irving’s Hamlet. In Garrick’s time
it was customary for a performer to imitate the
crowing of a cock, so that the Ghost might have
cause for starting “like a guilty thing upon a fearful
summons.” Macready and the earlier Hamlets used
to follow Ophelia’s description, and signify madness
by appearing with one stocking “fouled, ungartered,
and down-gyved to his ankle.” The Gravedigger
used to amuse the audience for five minutes bj r
taking off an absurd series of waistcoats before be-
ginning to dig. Polonius, "despite the many wise and
beautiful speeches put into his mouth, was, down to
Garrick’s time, invariably played by a comic actor,
and was nearly always portrayed as a senile buffoon.
H. B. returns to a variation of the old medallion
business. His father and Salvini, casting tradition
to the winds, never availed themselves of any pic-
tures or medallions. Most Hamlets prefer to do
the comparison between the murdered king and
Claudius by the aid of pictures. Sarah Bernhardt
introduced some original business. She cut the open-
ing ghost scene, and the rag rose on the palace in-
terior. She rolled scenes four and five into one,
making all the incidents on the platform happen
in one place. This was done by the Ghost standing
still while Hamlet “shooed” Horatio and Marcellus
“off.” The Ghost appeared on the scene in a singular
manner. A stone sank from the castellated wall, and
the spirit mounted through the gap. In the chamber
scene Hamlet drew the Comparison between a minia-
ture and a life-sized picture of his father low down
on the wall. By an ingenious trick the Ghost was
made to stalk from the frame, an effect reminiscent
of the ghost scene in the portrait gallery of “Rud-
digore,” the Gilbert-Sullivan failure—which, never-
theless, brought a profit of £5OOO. Many would
like to write failures at that price, as Gilbert re-
marked.
“Calcium”: “Spotlight” says (B. 6/7/’ll) H. B.
Irving told him that he (H. B.) never saw Henry
Irving play Hamlet. To me that only shows that
the most distinguished of actors may be leg-pullers.
I would as lief believe that Alfred Deakin’s daughter
never heard her father “speak.” As regards the
difference between the interpretations of father and
son, “Spotlight” takes the point that Henry Irving
was obscure, despite himself; whereas H. 8., having
an “educated intelligence,” isn’t. The province of
the actor is to vitalise the character he is playing;
to show him in his habit as he lived. If he cannot,
he is as anomalous on the stage as a dumb man
would be in a choir. Of course, Henry Irving made
his characters live in an eminent degree. He was not
difficult to follow, because “in his creations there
was always something esoteric and essential which
eluded and defied analysis . . . and, sequestered and
withdrawn, an idiosyncratic and inscrutable soul.”
Blither aside, the whole trouble was that he was
a poor elocutionist, and the older he grew the worse
he got. As to the allegation that “H. B. Irving’s
acting is from without, inwards; Sir Henry worked
from inward without,” it conveys no more to my
variety of intellect than the equally profound obser-
vation that the trend of Miss Eugenie Duggan’s art
is invariably from port to starboard. It is not criti-
cism so much as piffle.
The new custom —Leonard Borwiclc adopts it—-of
adding biographical dates to the names of musical
composers on concert programmes, seems intended to
suggest that Great Masters are not good life assur-
ance risks. The fire of genius consumes them, as a
rule, ere they can make old bones. Take the figures
from a Borwick programme. Beethoven scored 57
vears, Mozart 35, Schumann 46, Mendelssohn 38,
Chopin 39, Schubert 31, and Tausig 30. One notices
that the composers beloved of women, except Liszt,
who was a great pianist rather than a master, had a
shorter innings than the more grave masters. Bach
totalled 65 years and Brahms 64. The living men
are either less fiery, or better served by medical
science. Squambati is already 68, Debussy 49, and
Moszkowski 57. But are these going to be famous
50 ' r ears hence?
“Propstick”: Apropos H. B. and Ethel Irving.
Florence Terriss will be remembered in Australia as
one of the original Two Little Vagabonds, with
Knight, Mervale, and Caleb Porter. When she ap-
peared in London, bluff William Terriss said, ‘Hi,
you, little girl, what right have you to take my
name?” Florence replied tartly: “Because it’s my
own. Is it yours?” It was not. As to
some others. J. R- Greville was John Rogers.
He took the Greville not to be confounded
with G. H. Rogers. Henry Richard Har-
wood was John Biggs. Stewart, Nellie’s father, was
Towsey. Frank Thornton is Tubbs. Howard Ver-
non is Dick Lett. Creswick was an assumed name.
Montgomery was Tomlinson, formerly drapery as-
sistant at Swan and Edgar’s, London. Edmund
Kean was the son of a woman named Carey. Ihe Ken-
dals are Grimstons. Their daughter acted in Aus-
tralia as Miss Grimston. and their son as Dorrington.
The Rignold name is slightly altered from Rignall.
“Culex”: They are practical patriots outback in
Westralia. Here’s a case. At Arrino, recently, a
concert was held in aid of some school fund ad-
mission: married men Is., unmarried men 2 s.”
They might also have made it: Married couples,
without encumbrances, 55., unless for cause shown ;
but evidently they were in a hurry.
“Snell” : “A Fool There Was” recalls some recent
“Poverty Point” remarks of mine on the use and abuse
of china as a vehicle of dramatic feeling. On no
less than four occasions crockery is shattered by
characters anxious to convince the audience that they
are roused far beyond considerations of cost. If
this thing isn’t stopped it is certain to grow on us.
The hurling of a wine-glass into the fender must
lose effect with constant use, and I fear it will pre-
sently be necessary to resort to fish-bowls, bread
crocks, tureens, wash-hand basins and filters to
give dramatic effect to the maiden’s curse; and
eventually the heavy villain may not be able to
satisfy us that he really means it unless he is pro-
vided with a plate-glass window to bash with a
mallet.
Manager Marlow, of the gore and bedpost melo-
dramas, created a mystery for an Adelaide bill-
posting man the other day. He wrote that he would
commence a season on July 1, and would send Blood
in advance. The billposter was puzzled, but politely
replied that he considered Marlow was giving Ade-
laide too much for its money, and that he thought
the usual posters would be sufficiently lurid. Then
a mild-mannered gentleman turned up, and said he
was George Blood, advance agent, and the mystery
was dissolved in two ginger ales.
“Nomad”: Re ancient H. P. Lyons, who is still at
work making smooth the path of the travelling show-
man. Par. (B. 25/5/’ll) mentions that he arrived
witu Blondin in Adelaide in 1875. Perth wasn’t visited
by many shows in those days ; but Lyons had previously
landed a circus there about 1870. The “pitch” was -
in Hay-street, about where Foy and Gibson’s is now.
The circus arrived without a horse, having lost
every hoof on the voyage. That did not stop them,
however. They set to work on the local brumby,
and in an incredibly short time had a full team, in-
cluding a wonderfully good Black Bess for Turpin’s
ride to York. H. P. 'Lyons afterwards rode in a pri-
vate match against Mr. (now Chief Justice) Parker,
and lost. It was about five years later that he
brought Blondin to Australia.
From Wellington (M.L.) : The Sheffield Choir
sharpened up its cutlery here the other day, and
looked like shaving off somebody’s whiskers. The
crowd, or some of it, thinks it is being inconsider-
ately treated, and overworked, and rushed, and given
insufficient time for meals, and bundled; and it is
taking all the diplomacy available to stop an earth-
quake or minor explosion. Probably this explains
the circular which Dr. Harriss is understood to have
issued, almost praying the birds to agree in their
little nest and sing their very best in perfect tune.
Gerald Kay Souper, who was the virtuous friend to
“A Fool There Was,” at Melbourne Theatre Koyal,
had another bit of bad luck at the last matinge. In
the last act he comes to blows with the Fool, Hugh
Buckler; and somehow he really got his eye m the
way of Buckler’s heavy left. A little blood flowed,
and a moment later a fine purple patch gathered.
W T hen “Count Hannibal” was running in’ Sydney,
Oscar Asche wounded Souper during the rapier duel;
and a similar mishap occurred when the piece was
doing a provincial tour in England.
Melba’s nervousness, when she started to read a
lecturette on “diction” to the Guildhall School of
Music (London), was probably quite genuine—she
no doubt funked the job of reading the awful piffle
prepared for her. The poor woman was confronted
with the absurdity of having to tell a mob of ex-
pectant students that the English language, although
not as easily singable as Italian, is much less ungainly
than German- or Dutch, and “should be sung as it is
spoken.” As though a school of idiots would have
needed to be told that much. The trouble with
young warblers is they haven’t been taught how to
speak in the first place, and in the next place, if
they are correct in their ordinary diction, they are
incapable of producing their singing voices as easily
as they talk. Melba, on one occasion, when asked
how proper singing was produced, said, “From the
lips.” Few amateurs can sing from the lips in a
Melba way of uttering notes. And many of them are
mere unintelligible mimics of a foreign singing
master or mistress, who has reduced them to the
level of a parrot.
“0: Ockney”: “A.E.G.” (B. 22/6/’ll) has my
best thanks for correcting my slip_ re Waller being
the “original exponent” of Beaucaire. I should, of
course, have written “original English exponent.” (I
hope “A.E.G.” will not further correct me by re-
marking that Richard Mansfield was English—as he
undoubtedly was before he became American.) I
was well aware that the play, adapted from Tarking-
ton’s novel of the same name, was first produced
in America, and that Mansfield was the producer;
also that the. dollars never stopped rolling in. And
yet the piece was hawked all over London before
Waller “chanced” it by giving a special trial week
of it at Liverpool. The various performances of a
showy part like Beaucaire may be likened to various
kinds of beer. Some are better than others —none
are bad. Personally, not having had the pleasure of
seeing Mansfield, I want nothing better nowadays
than Waller, who, I repeat, was in every way satis-
fying. Another important thing, Waller is alive!
By the way (and quite without prejudice) Mans-
field never plaved “Richard III.” at the Lyceum, as
“A.E.G.” asserts. His “pitch” for that show was
the long-ago demolished Globe, in Newcastle-street,
Strand, where I paid my good money to see a pretty
bad performance of the title role.
“Vulcan”: According to London Morning Leader
(May 4), “Cleopatra, the Australian snake charmer,
arrived in London yesterday for the Pageant of
Empire with her collection of Australian snakes.
Snake-charming is the latest occupation for women.”
The lady’s portrait is also given, but, materially and
pictorially, she seems to have eluded my local obser-
vation. Is she yet another of those “Australian ar-
tists” who gained their experience in the ’roo-infested
wilds of Clapham?
“Esta D’Argo,” returning to the Commonwealth in
September, doesn’t seem to fill the bill as “the bril-
liant Australian vocalist.” • Australian language of-
fers easy naturalisation to many Scandinavian, Ger-
man and French names, but the Dago variety remains
foreign in nearly all cases, like the Russian. The
Commonwealth wouldn’t take kindly to a Prime Min-
ister Petrakoff, or a Military Commandant by the
name of Gomez.
As a literary and dramatic curiosity, Laurence
Irving, on the first night of “Margaret Catchpole,”
at the London Duke of York’s, presented the aud-
ience with a facsimile of the playbill of an early
version of Peggy’s adventure, produced at the Vic-
toria Theatre, South London, in 1834. The title of
the piece was: “Margaret Catchpole, the female
horse-stealer; the Life and Adventures of a Suffolk
Servant Girl.” The scenes in the last act were as
follows: “New South Wales, Wigwam of the chief
Mataram.” “Deep Ravine of the Black Wolf Prairie.”
“Miraculous Preservation of Margaret from the Fury
of the Natives.” “Meeting with old friends. Her
union with John Barry. Free pardon for the heroic
Suffolk girl.” Even this 1834 version is not the
earliest on record. A Margaret Catchpole play was
produced in.a York theatre in 1814. One had a run
at the old Melbourne Royal in the ’6o’s, and no doubt
Sydney saw a Catchpole play a good deal earlier
than that.
Reg Wykeham, who recently took over Hugh J.
Ward’s comedy co., is a mummer who doesn’t stand
on ceremony when the occasion demands the other
thing. At a western (N.S.W.) town the other night,
a young squatter-galoot had been making the course
of “Seven Days” run unsmoothly, until his interjec-
tions became intolerable. Wykeham thereupon
stopped the play, and, walking forward to the lights,
asked the fellow to refrain from further distressing
the ladies on the stage and annoying the audience.
The appeal was met with “back talk.” “Well,” said
the actor-middleweight, “if you won’t be quiet you’ll
be put out.” “Who’ll put me out?” asked the other
defiantly. Wykeham provided the answer in person.
Leaping from the stage, he grabbed the interrupter
by the slack of the neck and the scruff of the pants,
ran him out of the building and, aeroplaned him
into the night. After that, “Seven Days” rolled on
peacefully.
Theo. Bruce, ex-Mayor of Adelaide, died
suddenly at 63. He got Agent-General Kirk-
patrick’s seat in the Leg. Council by a
whisker. Previously he had been a suburban
Mayor and City Councillor, and at various
times conducted a flourishing auctioneering
biz, built a brewery and ran racehorses. It
was a gran’dad of his who started the Leeds
Mercury.
The Sydney Telegraph downs tools: —
Loyalty, which takes the form of sulkily obeying
orders while muttering disloyalty, seldom is recog-
nised for more than it is worth.
Acting-Premier Holman did the Tele-
graph’s work for it during the Referenda
campaign; and that is what he gets for it
now. Still Holman knew all along the
generosity which Fat always serves out to
the strike-breaker when hostilities are over.
Sydney Telegraph lost a good staffman
in W. A. Jones last week. Editor of the
Westralian Worker and Barrier Truth in
turn, Jones was 12 months ago'appointed to
conduct the Labor section of the Tele-
graph when that paper thought it might be
as well to come out of the wet a bit. Up
to the time he was swiftly carried off by in-
fluenza and bronchitis he did his share so
well that the directors were, thinking of
sending for the police to prevent him con-
verting the staunchest Tories in the office.
Douglas Fry, artist and a popular figure
in social and sporting circles, died of pneu-
monia in Sydney on Sunday, aged 30. He
knew more about horses, and painted them
better, than any other artjst Australia
has known. He loved animals as lesser men
love sin or beer. It took the horse : owning
community some time to discover Fry’s
unique gifts, but latterly lie was rushed
with commissions to paint the great
thoroughbreds of the day. Some of his best
work appeared in The Lone Hand, and the
Sydney Gallery bought a couple of his pic-
tures.
When the Seven Mad Hatters voted
against the Industrial Arbitration Bill in
N.S.W. Assembly, the Tory Press thanked
its gods that we had returned to the two-
party system, and henceforth “Liberalism”
would present an unbroken front to Labor.
The purpose of the very next Government
Bill was to carry out the State coal mine
idea. After Opposition leader Wade had
made a bitter attack on the measure, the
House divided on the first reading, when all
the Storeyites present, as well as a couple
of Wade’s followers, voted for the Bill. A
two to one majority was the result.
The green young army of the Common-
wealth is mostly having a good time on ill-
lighted parade grounds these chilly even-
ings, cheeking its officers and flinging mud.
When the squads themselves are not making
trouble, the outer barbarians are throwing
insults and road metal. As the officers can’t
see who leads the revels, they can’t do any-
thing effective, and discipline goes by the
board. Meanwhile, many of the town halls,
mechanics’ institutes and places which they
may have to defend some day are occupied
by fancy-socked youths and languishing
flappers learning to dance to inferior music.
It may be that some of the idiots think that
if they cause enough trouble the compulsory
training scheme will be dropped. As a matter
of fact, all that these outbreaks show is that
young Australia needs disciplining rather
worse than was thought.
The P. and O. and Orient companies are
trying to make arrangements to leave Cir-
cular Quay, where they have been moored
ever since the beginning of things in Syd-
ney. Not only have the floating palaces in-
creased in size, but owing to the extensions
of the P. and O. line to Maoriland and the
Orient line to Brisbane the cos. find that
they require two berths apiece. As there is
not really enough room for one each, they
are making the best of a bad job, and are
applying for a home elsewhere. The German
mail steamers have two berths on the west
side of the Quay, and the British cos. darkly
hint at objecting to this preference to for-
eigners.
THE SILENT TERROR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A great knife in his hairy paw, the villain sound-
lessly
Raced up the staircase, stepping long and wide ;
He clumped upstairs in silence, and his trusty blade
did he
With horrid movements wave from side to side.
He reached the stairhead, raging, and he banged upon
the door
That blocked his way. He knocked, without a
sound,
Then oped his whiskered face and roared, a short,
sharp, noiseless roar,
Ilis syllables in utter silence drowned.
He entered then, and hacked his waiting victim clean
in two,
And laughed—with not a sound-wave in his
laugh !. .. .
That is the sort of murder for the careful knave to
do — m
The slaughter of the silent murdergraph !
VICTORIA.
STONY.
THE GOLDEN AGE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. H. B. Irving’s revival of “Hamlet,” which is
drawing crowded houses at Her Majesty’s Theatre,
was attended last night by . . . 250 students from
the Training College, who were accommodated in the
stalls. The latter witnessed the tragedy as part of
the term’s course. —S. M. Herald, 6/7/’ll.
How excellent are modern ways!
How very much superior
To what obtained in former days!
Why, everything is cheerier!
Take education: what a curse
Our ancestors considered it;
When they construed their Latin verse
And absolutely blithered it.
Ah, how they trembled when the Head,
Invincible, oracular,
Tlie birch-twigs carefully would spread
To teach them the vernacular.
They learned their way about the globe,
And pondered its sphericity;
They also watched the dunce disrobe,
A terrible felicity!
They learned how Romulus built Rome,
How Astur stormed Janiculum ;
Both anagram and palindrome
Formed part of their curriculum.
And, if in spite of all his pains,
Their knowledge seemed crepuscular,
The Head had sheaves of supple canes,
And he was fairly muscular.
Where Grand-dad met the birch’s sting,
And grim de Bello Gallico,
Our youngsters yell “Gor’save the King!”
And flourish scarlet calico.
And where, in Learning’s sombre halls,
He read Shakspeare euphonious.
Our students in the plush-lined stalls
Clap wildly for Polonius !
Hurrah ! And let the tale be told ;
Our times are much superior!
It seems a pity to grow old
Now things are so much cheerier!
N.S.IV.
O. C. CABOT.


Boys* Jersey Suits
Reduced to
Usual Price, 10/0.
9(6.
WELL and strongly knitted from good wool, and excellently
shaped. It is a three-piece Suit, consisting of Knickers,
Jersey and a Knitted Woollen Cap exactly as shown in the
illustration. The Jersey has stand collar ; buttons on shoulder —and
Cap being a smart Polo with tassel. In shades of Ivory, Brown and
Navy. Sizes—lB, 20 and 22 in. Usual price, 10/6 ; Sale price, 9/6.
WE PAY CARRIAGE
on all goods except Furniture, Floor Covering, Kitchenware and
Hardware to any part of the Commonwealth. Only on Toys
when ordered with other goods.
DAVID JONES LTD.,
Opp. G.P.0., SYDNEY.
gkgch
Nipped in the Bud.
A Cold, Cough, or Influenza ean be nipped in the
bud by a few doses of Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery
for Coughs and Colds. Price, Is. 6d. and 3s.*
Society
PENFOLD'S
WINES
CURRENCY.
COPPER: “ Copped !”
COPPED : “ Copper!”
tt “4 ke “ ehi ,” looks in a t the capital of
Uncle Sams newest possession:—
Prom Manila, the capital of the Philippines, T
have brought two memories, the very antithesis of
each other. One is of its architecture. There is a
walled city within the city. Walls and churches,
monasteries and convents, within the granite fold
were built by old Spanish architects, not for Time!
but for Eternity. The old-rose of the temple roofs,
the lichen-greys of their walls and the mouldy
jade-greens of their colossal doors, that look as if
they might yield only to cannon fire, would make
certain Australian artists mad with joy.
The aged city wall is many centuries old, and
nearly as wide as George-street. I hadn’t a tape-
measure with me, but I should guess it about that.
The monasteries have priceless records in their
archives, but the Church keeps them there. Trust-
worthy persons have told me there is no satisfactory
history of the Spanish occupancy of the Philippines
to be had. A few weeks ago 300 shocks of earth-
quake gave Manila jars. We were shown a big
church outside the old walled city that is built on
stone rockers to withstand earthquake shocks. It
is an astounding feat of architecture. The rockers
are plainly visible, and we would have given much to
see them tested.
The second memory is of two favorite items of
Filipino diet. They take the eggs from a brooding
hen a few days before the chick is due to break
through, and cook them. “Why not?” said my in-
formant. “They like their poultry very young and
tender.” Then the dog-eating tribe have dog-markets
that are attended as are our sheep sales. The bow-
wow is starved for two days; then given as much
boiled rice as he can eat. Immediately afterwards
he is killed, roasted, and, self-stuffed as he is, wholly
eaten.
Mrs. Filipino in her national dress—she is of poor
physique—wears a brightly-dyed and trained frock
of pine-apple fibre. The immense sleeves are trans-
parent and distended with a starch of much stiffen-
ing quality; and on her otherwise bare neck she has
a big horse-collar-shaped piece of the fibre as light
in weight as a skeleton leaf.
An endeavor to solve the ancient problem
of what a man shall do with his hat in
church has been made by the Rev. F. A.
Adams, rector of Doddinghurst, Essex
(Eng.). Mr. Adams has contrived an ar-
rangement of wire clips, which can be easily
fixed to the under side of the pew. The
English “religious” press has given the con-
trivance a warm welcome.
While church bells peal and anthems roll
The rector murmurs on the mat —
If he should fail to save your soul,
At least he will not wreck your hat.
The annual insanity statistics of S.A.
show, contrary to a rather general dread,
that the trouble is, on the whole, decreasing.
Even with a larger population, new cases
come in not more than half as fast as they
did last century. There are more male
lunatics than female, but the ratio is steadily
working down towards the “female predomin-
ance” _ generally found in old-established
countries. The only disquieting feature is
Dr. Cleland’s discovery that, in his great
establishment at Parkside, “of the 207 ad-
missions during the year, 32 per cent, were
reported to be born in England. Of the 83
female admissions, nearly 50 per cent, were
born in the Motherland.” Is Mother doing
the trick of the up-country J.P., and giving
her lunatics (as well as her remittance-men)
a plain hint to “leave the township” and
save her the expense of locking them up?
Territorial Captain S’John Fuller was ad-
vised by departing Governor Carmichael to
make himself popular by travelling
round Victoria. The novice took
the advice, and since his arrival a
month ago has been buzzing round
like a fly in a bottle. He has
already invaded about 16 town-
ships, setting local Mayors puff-
ing with gratification and heavy
meals. If he doesn’t soon ease
off, he will over-do Carmichael’s
stunt, and make I’irriwillock,
Banjerang and Sulky Gully ut-
terly sick of his habit of dropping
in at meal times.
“0.K.”: How distressing to
read that Andy Fisher and co. in
London “shied at gold braid, but
elected to wear black coats with
silver buttons, black breeches, silk
stockings, shoes with silver but-
tons and cocked hat...above lot
being chosen as the least objec-
tionable mass of glad rags obtain-
able.” Hoes tlie difference be-
tween gold braid and silver fix-
ings represent the difference be-
tween bloated Toryism and Andy
Fisherism? Aren’t those com-
promises in mummery exceedingly
petty-minded? If a man is play-
ing at being an official personage
at a “Court function ” he should
play the game, and wear the
clothes of the country. No man
is more arrogantly assertive in his
dressing in London than the
American Minister who wears
“plain evening dress” (in the
morning) at assemblages of men
in uniform. Nor can any adver-
tising democrat be more absurd
than Andy Fisher choosing silver
trappings instead of gold ditto, on
the ground that they are less as-
sertive.
A soulless Adelaide comp, made the usually
neat error the other day.' He headed a re-
port of a series of mostly-liquid guzzles “The
Cornation.”
FALLEN OUT.
THE LION HUNTRESS : " What's become of your bosom friend, Smithers ?"
THE AVIATOR LION : "Oh , I've dropped him,"
1 etramos” : A new kind of lunacy has been
invented by sundry harmless Adelaide citi-
zens, who band themselves together at inter-
vals, and elect, a Judge, prisoner, counsel,
jurymen and witnesses. Those left over are
ushers and bodies of the court.” Cele-
biated cases are then retried. One Daniel,
prosecuted by the son of a S. Aus. K.C. for
being illegally in a lions den, has lately
been successfully defended by a young jour-
nalist, with Costs against the lions. In the
charge of polygamy preferred against Solo-
mon, the Judge, to the utter dejection of a
great array of counsel, ruled that his wives
could not be examined as witnesses. Solo-
mon’s, housemaid (obliged with a seat on the
Judge’s knee) testified with closed doors,
After that, the monarch never had a chance,
Jonah has failed, on a point of law, to re-
cover damages against the owner of the
whale. A case pending is that of Adam for
wrongful eviction. Whilst the Court sits the
ushers bring in refreshments; and the body
of the court is fined 2s. 6d. for contempt
every time it fails to observe the Judge’s
te.
GOT THERE JUST THE SAME.
“ Whatever has happened to you?"
“ Football!”
“ Rut I didn't think you played?"
"No; but I do a bit o' barrackin"
HELPED CHILDREN THROUGH WINTER.
“In my opinion children’s colds should never be
neglected,” writes Mrs. M. E. Ellbourn, Piper Street,
South Broken Hill, N.S.W. “My two sons, Arthur
and Frank, were always catching colds during the
winter months, but I managed to get them through
the winter by the use of Chamberlain’s Cough
Remedy. If either of them wakens up coughing
I always give him a dose of Chamberlain’s Cough
Remedy, which has always been successful in ridding
them of the usual winter colds.”*
Adelaide Town Hall was 55 years old the
other day. When opened it was the biggest
in Australia, and “Billy” Townsend was
physically the smallest mayor. City coun-
cils had previously deliberated in a hired office
in Hindley-street, and had had difficulty in
paying the rent. The first Adelaide Council (it
was the first corporation of its kind estab-
lished in any “colony”) was limited to an
expenditure of £lO per week. The second
council reduced the mayoral allowance to
£lOO per year;. the mayor (Hurtle Fisher)
pluckily stood it for five months, when “on
account of pressure of private business,” etc.,
he resigned. The finances shook so that the
rate collectors were in the habit of deducting
their salaries from their collections, and
handing in the balance. The corporation
succumbed in September, 1843, leaving many
sorrowing debtors to mourn their loss. The
mineral discoveries at the Burra and Ka-
punda, and, later, the arrival of Gov. Young,
everything right. Young appointed a
City Commission” of five persons, and these
five practically did the work of a corpora-
tion, which formally rearrived in 1852, with
h isher again mayor. Since the building of
tne Town Hall there have been but four
Adelaide Town Clerks. One lasted a year;
Hughes reigned 13 years; Worsnop, 29; and
Cilery is 12, not out.
“Curse o’ Moses”: I believe
I have found the supreme ex-
ample of colossal cheek and
effrontery yet perpetrated in the
name of patriotism and empire.
Some time ago I was asked to
attend a meeting called for the
purpose of enrolling members in
a strange, wild thing called the
Overseas Club. As it seemed
to have no mission except to
exist, and offered no sort of de-
light, I turned it down, and re-
mained as far from its meetings
as_ possible. Last week I re-
ceived a poster from England,
printed in glaring colors, which
set forth that I was a duly-
qualified member. By thei fol-
lowing post came a circular
from a person in Sydney re-
peating the calumny, and send-
ing me tickets to sell in aid of
the funds of the awful institu-
tion of which he asserted that I
was part and parcel. I wouldn’t
buy or sell those tickets if the
King, and Mr. Asquith, and
the Chinese Ambassador, and
St. Paul, and the biggest police-
man in Sydney all went down
on their knees and begged me
to do it. The Overseas Club is
to me an insult and an infamy.
It insists on the brotherhood of
all within the Empire, and im-
plies that I have a common
bond with a Hongkong Chow
and an Indian nigger. I deny
't- I never had anything to do with
either of them : but what am I going to do
about it ! Will a few good Australians help
me to assess the value of the injury that I
have suffered?
Resolution carried by the Adelaide muni-
cipal tramway employees’ association :
, That the general manager of the Tramways Trust
be asked that all men in the service who have been
punished during the year shall have their pmnish-
ment rescinded, in honor of the Coronation, seeing
that a similar privilege has been given to prisoners
throughout the Commonwealth.
Still, they might have said “other prison-
ers, and that would have been worse.
PIE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A pie factory. ... The bakehouse floor was very
dirty and the walls were covered in fly-dirt. Horse
manure was trampled into the bakehouse floor, and
under the sink in the bakehouse there was much filth
Within two yards of the door was the stable, the floor
of which . . .—Police Court evidence.
Born to this world it murmurs, “What am I?”
With one profound and melancholy sigh,
Wafting strange perfumes manifold and thick.
And swift the answer falls, “Thou art a Pie.”
A mocking word, which truly answers not,
Nor solves the riddle of the How and What,
Nor tells the pie what process and what mind
Gave it its Being succulent and hot.
Even thus, when man sits pondering on his goal,
And through his mind tumultuous wonderings roll,
The parson’s foolish voice will make pretence
To answer, cackling thin, “Thou art a Soul.”
The Pie rests idle on its plate, and steams,
But in its heart are dim and restless dreams—
Veiled, cloudy fancies of the days that were
Before the Kitchen made it what it seems.
The flies left dirt upon the grimy wall;
Beneath the sink one saw the meat-scraps fall;
The half-uneaten sausage rolled across
The table, and the Pie absorbed them all.
The horses stamping in the stable near
Added new odors to the atmosphere,
And to the floor new ordure, to compose
The vast complexity now smoking here.
Yea, and the Pie remembers hands that toiled
About its moulding; deft, but foully soiled,
They slapped its doughy body into shape,
And stuffed its heart with scraps of roast or boiled.
Out of that sewer came its day to fly,
Hot, sweet, and fragrant on the board to lie,
That men might gaze upon it reeking there,
And say with careless glance, “It is a Pie.”
Now once again the moral I shall toll,
How men and maidens fair around us stroll;
With solemn wagging of the head we look,
And sapient say, “It is a Human Soul.”
The Cook has given it a cunning dress,
And mouths must water for it; none the less
In the deep Kitchen out of which it came
Are lust and hate and sordid beastliness.
So of my fellow-creatures I am shy,
Glimpsing their glory with suspicious eye;
Sniffing along through evolution’s reek
I view mankind as one great tupp’ny Pie !
VICTORIA.
L.


BMILtQNT
s fill
10,0Q0 S 000
/tablets of Sun*
light!Soap are
sol cl every week;
this is the high® ,
est possible proof
that Sunlight
Soap comes up
to expecta-
tions.
y* J
/
m
NO. 67. GUARANTEED UNDER THE
’’PURE FOOD ACT. 1908,"
BY LEVER BROTHERS LIMITED,
SYDNEY. N.S.W. No. 87.
HEADACHE AND MIGIIIM, two curses of modern
civilised life, are in ninety-nine cases out of a hun-
dred closely connected with functional disturbance
of the bowels. The simplest and best of all remedies
for the latter trouble is a wine-glassful of “HUN-
YADI JANOS” natural aperient water taken before
breakfast every second or third morning.*
Business Sydney, having no room to grow to the
north, has been spreading itself out to the south,
and practically a new city of very fine buildings is
springing up in the neighborhood of the railway
station. Right in the centre of this section the old
established A. Saunders has put up a new “J°wellerv
Palace”; and from these fine premises a 200-page
silver-plate catalogue (free) has just been issued,
worthy of the new place and the reputation of the
firm.*
Wild’s Hairdressing Rooms, 30 Upstairs,
Sydney Arcade, George and King Streets, Sydney, is the
proper place to go if you want the best of attention.
Electric head and face massage done in the latest
American style. Hours of business : 8.30 to 6.30 ; Satui.
day close at 1 o’clock.*
THIS BOOT FOR ALL-ROUND SERVICE.
khg
16,6
IT’S made of very pliable fine Box Calf
uppers fitted to the stout wide welted
and rope-stitched soles that give
sterling service.
The linings are smoothly finished, and in
every respect this Boot is one you will find
give thorough satisfaction.
Price 10/6.
Give Size and add l/= postage
if ordering by letter.
Inter=State, 1/3.
PEAPES & CO. LTD.,
“Men’s Outfitters,”
309-311 George Street, SYDNEY
The N.S.W. Tramway Union is at last
going to make a move in connection with
Sydney s dangerous habit of hanging on to
tram footboards and other forms of suicide.
A Wages Board is to listen to the tram-
men’s tale of woe, and is to be asked to pre-
scribe four conditions for the “industry.”
These aim at (1) prohibiting passengers
riding on the driver’s platform, (2) provid-
ing side-bars to prevent passengers alighting
on the wrong side, and thus getting them-
selves mangled and giving the tram-men un-
called for shocks; (3) prohibiting pas-
sengers riding on the footboards, so
that the conductors may collect the fares in
safety; (4) providing two men (driver and
conductor) for one car, and an additional
man for each extra car, so that the con-
ductor need not crawl from one hurrying
vehicle to. another at the peril of his life.
The question as to what is to become
of the passengers who ride on the foot-
boards because there isn’t anywhere
else for them to ride will be left to
somebody else to answer. The only pos-
sible answer seems to be an underground
railway ; but as that will take four or five
years to make, there is evidently going to be
a lot of worn-out shoe-leather after the new
and desirable regulations asked for by the
tramway men come into force.
CHIN MUSIC.
CLARA: “ I believe I am developing a double
chin.”
WILLIE: “My dear, there have been moments
when I believed you were developing a
dozen. ”
“Phil Harum”: There is a very annoyed
person in our district. He met a man in a
motor; the man was looking hard at the
country, and was clearly a prospective land-
buyer. They pulled up, as the habit is in
these , parts, and had a yarn. Our man ex-
patiated on the fertility of the district, de-
claring that 640 acres w T as a sufficient living
area for any ordinary farmer. (He holds
2560 acres himself.) At the next pub he
discovered that the stranger wasn t a land-
buyer, but the chairman of the Local Land
Board. Now he is wondering how he will
o-et on when he applies for an additional
holding; also he thinks that all Government
officials should be either put into uniform or
compelled to wear a badge of some sort.
George V., in an open letter ‘ to my
people,” after having had lard rubbed in his
hair, announced that "whatever perplexities
or difficulties may lie before me and my
people, we shall unite, facing them resolutely
and calmly, and with public spirit.” The
Bulletin now invites George to unite at top
speed to deal with the perplexities of his liege
people starving in London in thousands, and
offers him as a start a few mild cases recently
reported by an officer wearing his civil uni-
form : —
(1) In one cellar a man ill with small-pox, his
wife, just recovering from her eighth confinement, and
the children naked and covered with dirt.
(2) Seven people in one underground kitchen, with
a dead child in the same place.
(3) In another a poor widow with three living
children and a child who had been dead for 13 days.
(4) One room in which lived a widow and six
children, one a woman of 29, another 21, and a son
27.
(5) Cellar containing the gaunt children of a
woman who had died of starvation. No work, conse-
quently no food. She was lying on rags, and the
only food in the place was a filth-covered crust or two
which had been picked out of the gutter.
Those are only a few opportunities for
George to prove himself a man of his word,
and, if he does, The Bulletin, as in duty
bound will ever nray, etc.
* * * *
Touching the Victorian claim to Riverina,
it is a queer fact that Albury people always
call the river there the Hume. To refer to
it as the Murray at once places you as an
outsider. In the pretty little public gardens
there is a monument to Hamilton Hume, the
explorer who discovered the local stream.
Originally, the inscription said that the
monument had been erected to the memory
of Hamilton Hume by the inhabitants of the
Hume River, etc. A visitor noticed it and
casually remarked that the inscription
looked a bit fishy. So the Alburians hastily
chiselled in the word “District,” and the
local fish lost their reputation for supreme
cleverness.
From the Old-
est Inhabitant:
Lecturing before
the Australian His-
torical Society re-
cently, on “The
Great Southern
Road,” Mr. Frank
Walker stated that
Ashtield was t,o
named because of
the slaughter by
the blacks of a
number of whites
upon the spot, the
whites being sub-
sequently burned
and reduced to
ashes. F. H.
Grundy, a civil en-
gineer, in a little
volume published
in 1879, entitled
“Pictures of the
Past,” gave color
to this legend. As
a matter of fact,
Ashiield got its
name from the
Campbells, of the
Wharf. Robert
Campbell, who
came from Cal-
cutta to Sydney in
1796, belonged to
the family of
Campbells of Ash-
field, cadets of the
house of Duntroon,
Argyleshire. John
Campbell, father
of Australia’s first
merchant, was the
last laird of Ash-
field, Argyleshire.
Robert Campbell mar-
ried a sister of John Palmer, the Commissary-
General of the very early days, and died at Dun-
troon, Queanbeyan, in 1846. This historic homestead
is now Australia’s first military college. Robert
Campbell sold “Ashfield Park” to Joseph Underwood,
who in the ’3o’s used to hoist a flag when he was “at
home,” to intimate the fact to his friends. The Un-
derwood Estate was cut up many years ago, and now
forms a large part of the suburb known as Ashfield.
The first Surveyor-General, Alt, had a 100-acre grant
in the locality; he is kept in memory by Alt-street.
The Law’s persistent neglect to prosecute
the damsel who is bowled out in the story
with a dreadful man in it, is bearing its
natural fruit. Juries, knowing that the
■ear of unpleasant consequences is not before
the damsel, begin to give the man the benefit
of the doubt even where the doubt isn’t con-
spicuous. Justice a’Beckett (Vie.) had a case of
the sort before him the other day, and when
the jury said “Not Guilty,” lie expressed his
“amazement.” The chances, however, are
that his Honor will have to go on being
amazed until the Law gives the man in such
cases a fair deal. In this instance the dam-
sel’s narrative may have been pure gospel,
but the jurymen had heard and read of
so many instances of similar tales by similar
damsels being disproved and knocked out as
impudent lies, that they declined to convict
unless they were absolutely certain. They
knew that the Law deals in the very gentlest
manner with these prurient-minded damsels,
that it never deals out justice to them when
they are bowled out, and that it never com-
pensates the injured man when he is proved
innocent —and they declined in any way to
lend themselves to such a one-sided business.
Hobart owns municipal abattoirs and a
capable staff of experts to see that meat
intended for consumption in the city is pro-
gerly inspected at the time of slaughter.
iut meat killed in the country districts is
only inspected after the carcases have been
dumped in the city, and inspection in such
circumstances is farcical. Lately, for in-
stance, there arrived at the Hobart abat-
toirs “a beautiful bullock, as fat a bullock
as could be found.” It was a thing of
beauty to look at —provided you didn’t look
at its head. There it had “a great cancer,
the running from which had completely
REASON
FOR
HOPE.
NEW OFFICE
BOY: “And
I hope , sir ,
before very
long to get
somethitig
better.”
MANAGER:
“ Yes, that's
right. One
never knows.
Something
may happen
to me any
day.”
closed up one eye.” If this dreadful beast
had been put into a country slaughter-yard
and its head removed, the rest of the carcase
could have been dumped into city shops, and
there wouldn t have been a thing visible to
the naked eye to indicate that it was cancer-
ous meat. The Mayor, who drew attention
to the case, and invited the populace to come
along and inspect the bullock, is hammering
away at the point that it is absolutely
necessary, in the interests of the public
health, that every beast shall be inspected
before slaughter.
*_ * * *
A prisoner named Cooper, who attempted
to escape from Hobart gaol, was shot dead
by a warder the other afternoon. The arm-
ing of warders on duty inside the gaol walls
has only been customary since the escape of
three prisoners last October. Cooper was
one of the escapees on that occasion, as also
was Buckley, his companion in the present
bid for liberty. Both attempts were made
at the same spot—through the roof of the
bootmaking shop, which abuts on the gaol
wall, alongside which there is a _ tree,
through whose branches one can drop into a
churchyard. Though several prisoners have
got away by that route at various times, no
attempt appears to have been made to stop
the leak by raising the wall, or even by
making the roof secure. Tasmania evi-
dently thinks it cheaper to arm its warders.
But if it cannot make its gaols reasonably
safe, and it is necessary to arm the warders
to prevent prisoners falling out through the
roof, it might at least arm them with a less
deadly weapon than a revolver. A hay-rake
or a shot-gun would have proved far more ac-
curate and effective, and less fatal in the
present instance. Instructions to fire low
at a couple of prisoners scrambling along an
overhead beam certainly ought not to be is-
sued with a loaded #
m ~ Anl ~ , , , , ~
“The Tramp : All these tales about the
prevalence of Ah Chow in the giocery and
other stores of the Australian inlands, especi-
ally of Queensland, are very sad but I
know n ease where Ah Ghow is or was a
Know a case wiiere An ODOW IS, or was, a
Government official. He IS (or was) the
postmaster; and when somebody once grum-
bled about it, it was explained that there
was a white ancestress perched somewhere
high up m his family tree. Even so, in an
All-White Australia you would have thought
that the local inhabitants would have risen
up like one man and petitioned the Post-
master-General to at least give them the
local King Billy or some other home-grown
black-pfeller to manage their mail. One
man I spoke to said Ah Chow did the job all
right, except that it was never any good
writing for any of the hi? stores’ catalogues,
as thev never arrived The nost-nffieer was
as rnej never aim oil. xne posi omcer was
also a storekeeper; but that, of course, had
nothing to do with the inattention of the big
shops.
Victoria’s Licenses Reduction Board nearly
had the painful duty of wiping out one of
Melbourne’s very-best-known pubs the other
day. _ There were seven hotels too many in
the district, and those with the worst records
had to go. Now it happened that Young
and Jackson's had two convictions for serv-
ing over-elevated individuals, so the Court
sat down and laboriously and accurately
split. several hairs, and finally decided that
public convenience must be the paramount
consideration after all. Of course that
meant that the old hostelry was allowed to
remain.
At least one State Governor is busily argu-
ing the point with the Customs Dept, as to
what constitutes goods for “official use.”
Such goods can be cleared from the ship or
out of bond free of duty, and the phrase
“official use” has hitherto had a rather wide
definition. In fact, there wasn’t much the
gentleman-helps couldn’t get through the
Customs duty free, though the Act expressly
mentions that matters for household or
family use must pay. The particular Gov.
who is now arguing the point imported some
finished articles of summer apparel, and
claimed that they were not subject to duty.
In the subsequent debate the reasoning of
Government House ran something in this
fashion: His Excellency may have to open a
show in the tropics, or bite an unseemly
lump out of a big bun on a hot day; and any
white clothes used during those functions
would be strictly for official use. The rea-
soning hasn’t appealed to the Customs au-
thorities just yet; but while the matter is
being further considered, it is up to someone
to ask these officials why they want to import
made-up wearing apparel into a country
which pays them handsomely for very small
services.
Their Majesties will be glad to know that
N. S. Wales rejoiced so exceedingly over the
Coronation that on the great day even the
funeral train which left Sydney for Rook-
wood mortuary was gaily decorated with an
array of the grand old flag.
The station-master at Irrewarra (Vic.)
has a good knowledge of Victorian railway
necessities. Last Saturday one of the usual
playful incidents of the Victorian lines oc-
curred —the Melbourne train made a giddy
dash at the Cressy train, standing beside the
platform on the same set of rails. The
newspaper correspondent describes the scene
with an excited buzz in his voice :
The station-master called to the passengers in the
Cressy train to jump out, and then rushed with a
flag. On came the Melbourne train. Men held their
breath, and women screamed and fainted.
But there was no smash, for the Melbourne
train merely gave the other a slight kick in
the rear. The Bulletin does not even
know whether the men jumped. But there
is no doubt that the S.M. gave good advice.
“When in doubt, jump,” is a sound rule for
travellers in Victoria, whose railways won’t
be quite safe till spring-boards to jump from
are placed in every car.
A “WAGES WAR.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Before the Commission of inquiry into the alleged
shortage of labor in N.S.W., George Austin, clothing
manufacturer, said there was a sort of wages war
between the employers.—News item.
There’s a war between the bosses
In the tailor-clothing trade;
They are mourning for their losses
On the profits lately made;
Fat employers, fiercely striving
Lean employees to engage,
Are no longer all conniving
To reduce the “living wage.”
Oh, this war of rival striving—-
We have longed for its arriving!
If the workers now are thriving,
May that war for ever rage!
Sure, the man who loves his neighbor
Bitter struggles must deplore,
When grim Capital meets Labor,
And the latter sheds its gore ;
But when boss and boss are fighting
On the labor market stage,
Then the greed-shed is exciting—
It is Labor’s golden age!
And a looker-on, delighting
In the interchange of smiting,
Cries “What ho! employers fighting—
Such a war is good to wage!”
VICTORIA.
O. K.


'irJL'TjZ " U "..‘“"" M °'
factorles eXC,U<,e 8,1 Europeans from Chinese
3. To prevent Chinese employers giving ‘
any surplus work to factories employing
Australian workmen.
Rales °f'
Ise, Me lb C&.V •
A\^ e ''S Traces Untor).
fkƒgkgyh
B^r
Tr,ue_
Those who suffer under any
social or political disability are
generally an inarticulate mass.
They can do nothing without leader-
ship, but they cannot produce a leader
from among themselves. The modern
Labor party is attempting to reverse
all this.— Argus.
- - 7h € c r,^ ( .vr^tlcoUte
„ whicVj i«, you - a»Jwlfwmtly
-follow ‘tfre o|- tite l*+e —•
Which \*> rrje —^
TVe rrjVsV gO >
\i<i go*strong
It was said that there was brutality in
this sport. There was no brutality in
one manly fellow knocking spots off
another manly fellow, who was doing
his best to knock spots off him. (Laugh* /
ter
'O n
(
3 v,rnrr> ' r> .-“
/7 [ooK onne»;
! 'S r o'f'<d ,
W»n' One sided
s>'pose we o » 1'
codds off, se^' es
j+”~ on ~tv£ •fl®® l ” of
coa-'t', o*e "OJy>l)
ot %':
y bloKc
CITY KITCHENS
"The restaurant kitchens oi the city
are receptacles ot tilth—simply a living
disgrace—an absolute disgrace "
Th« Boss - V/*7y «' r 'S' t h€ c
-a, ka.V€ ? '
Qp'OS t '® ,rt^'ow S Waiter SC€ , ,
Vje bem & fri««d of I Coul<AV>t' serve
dk Trie's liK^€
*r e ftr >e a
fe />, , ‘•te e *t» A
;«<<>.*
"•rZ r 'n g
°"</i
A
A ARce -
—" Who'' m I f youve.
" hc&vra Oj- ififcv't' bio Victorian j..
-Come*- m b-eei- ? l'm I’M
The Acting-Premier of N. S. Wales
has received from the Attorney-Oeneral
of Victoria formal notice of the Inten-
tion of Victoria to lay claim to that por-
tion of the Rlverlna which has formed
the subject of controversy since The Age
: questioned the accuracy of the
present boundary between the
two States. -Age.
But the nomination ol a few
of the horses figuring in the Cup
list can only, however, be regarded
in the light of a Joke, or otherwise as
an indication of a certain kind of vanity
on the part of the . nominator who
acquires spurious distinction as the
owner of a Cup candidate.— Argus, f
•RibaOd Person (-h wc ,[ ,b o u v
SJ>orf%rr)&r> , Jln>bill oi> t,, b (^,u
] ~ . 'Of C&nd.dJcfe , you
. ulinorne, n€ more liKe
fov c&Jdron 1'
>/ic - ' Thi f.r*\ H
2k div'iyon o
poaT+ar' aj ”beiV«ev> 4*3 '
n'T" »v>€ 's>£■
op lour 1
-fo l«* b! ,l_ of *-) • £
I*o the I?£* c K 1 H
MOSTLY MELBOURNE.


Lewis & Whitty’s Harness Dressing
(BLACK OR TAN)
Gives a brilliant finish, preserves and nourishes Buggy
or Motor Hoods, Harness, Leggings and all Leather Goods,
LEWIS & WHITTY, MELBOURNE and SYDNEY. [3
McKENZIE’S EXCELSIOR BAKING POWDER.
4/- in the £
DISCOUNT.
WE ARE TARING OFF ALL
ELECTRO-PLATE TABLE WEAR.
WE have been able to make special
arrangements with the greatest and
best Manufacturers of England to
sell their Electro-Silver Products at 20 per
cent. Discount off their English Wholesale
Catalogue Prices.
This forced us to make similar reductions
on all our Electro-plate Stock.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
Plain Figures
Cash.
23 8 25 Hunter St.
1 :
m,
iJSJ)
a
Best Electro-plate on Hard White Metal, 13in. high.. £6 0 0
Less 20 per cent 140
£4 16 0
ABORIGIN
ALITIES
‘Berkeley” : The recent murder of a trader
at the Maravo Lagoon (Solomon Islands) recalls
some of the gentle habits of the natives of that
locality. One episode. A young unmarried Mary, de-
spite her objections to the proceeding, gave birth to
a fine, healthy baby. Next day she was noticed go-
ing about as usual, unaccompanied. Questioned
as to the little Solomon’s whereabouts, the erring
damsel replied: “Huh! No like piccaninny. Pig
kai kai finish.” It is no unusual thing to see a
woman suckling a young pig that has lost its natural
parent, while her own youngster squalls and fights
for its usurped rights. Sometimes baby and pig are
nourished at one and the same time, the gentle Mary
the while puffing contentedly at a short, black, clay
pipe. One could forgive the Solomon Islanders their
murderous disposition, but not their filthiness. A
sight calculated to turn up the average new chum
is that of the general type of kanaka, skin-diseased
and foul-smelling, in the act of feeding. It goes
without saying that in a comparatively few years the
Solomon Islander will have become extinct, and no
one will miss him much when he goes. On Guadal-
canar and certain other of the British islands, there
is no very noticeable indication yet of a diminishing
population, but in the German Solomons the decrease
during the past few years has been pronounced.
Abortion and infanticide are largely practised, and
the men are no longer anxious to marry as soon as
they have “plenty grass alonga face.”
EPIDEMIC.
MRS. HORACE: “ Everybody can get work but
you. I here's Peebles got a job to-day
MR. HORACE: " Peebles got work! Then I'll
venture out no more. It must be catching."
“E.H.P.”: Re the Australian nigger’s
bright and breezy tongue. Black Billy was the
groom at the bush-town pub, and the fat commercial
traveller ordered his caravan to be ready in an hour.
“Give it a wash,” said ! the boss to Billy; “there’s
a good tip hanging to it.” So Billy scrubbed the
vehicle, groomed the horse and carefully waited. It
is necessary to explain here that, with the exception
of one patch just outside the yard gate—a patch
about the size of a plate—the ground surrounding
the pub was bare of grass. When the commercial
appeared, Billy smilingly helped him aboard, and
stood at respectful attention; but there was nothing
doing. “Good-bye, Billy,” said the man in the trap,
and drove off. Billy watched him with silent dis-
gust until he was passing the grass patch; then he
yelled: “Hey, boss! Doan’ throw tixpence longa
grass. Might lose him.” And even then he didn’t
get it.
“Cellu Loid” : “F.L.8.,” in a recent Bul-
letin, tells uS that the missionary who said the banta
Cruz arrow is poisoned per medium of dead man was
talking through his hat. For the first time in my
life I chip in oh the missionary’s Side. I once had
the doubtful privilege of seeing Sammy Santa in his
revolting arrow-poisoning business, and this is how
he went about it. In an old shed some distance from
the village, some human remains were placed in a
broken canoe, which was swinging from the roof.
The bottom of the canoe was riddled with holes, and
below was a wooden trough in which were placed
the fish-bone points of hundreds of arrows. This
point need not break off to kill a man. A scratch
with a properly-prepared Santa Cruz arrow will kill
as dead as a 10-ton gun at 10 yards, with the differ-
ence that the poison takes 11 to 12 days to do its
work —a period of agony of mind right up to a few
hours before the end, and then Hell’s fire itself un-
til -. Except for his use of the poisoned arrow,
the Santa Cruz man is the fairest fighter I have
ever seen in the Pacific. No sneaking in at the
darkest hour before the dawn for him. He sends
notice to the tribe he intends attacking, so that they
may get the women, children, pigs, etc., away before
the dead man on the end of small sticks swoops into
action.
* * * *
“0.C.C.”: There are still dangers to be
faced by the “hardy prospector” in Sunny Noosowth.
Led by a resplendent expert of large tonnage, various
Sydney men went out to the wilds of Burrowa to
inspect a copper proposition. The leader of the
expedition warned its members that Casey, who had
camped on the claim since the year Four, strongly
objected to mining men, and, in fact, all strangers,
on general principles. Casey, his wife, and his sons
and his daughters coax the gentle spud and the
woolly cabbage towards the sunlight. Since copper
indications were discovered on his land, Casey has
warned off a fair crowd of “city blanks” ; and it is
beginning to get on his nerves. He had warned the
leader of this expedition that if he came back with
any more “rock-sneakers” he (the leader) would
stand a fair chance of being shot at. Consequently,
when the expert and the party landed from their
motor-cars in the early morning, Casey made the
welkin vibrate like a 48-knot motor-boat. All their
friendly advances, even whisky and sandwiches, were
rejected with scorn, disdain, contumely and spirit,
and he rushed inside for his gun. Then Mrs. Casey
and the Misses Casey threw themselves on the old
man’s neck, and the young Messieurs Casey came and
begged the mining crowd to disperse orderly
while there was yet time. A strained posi-
tion was ended by the timely appearance of
the Law, who had been informed of Casey’s
strenuosity, and who had followed the scent
of rum-and-milk and petrol all the way from Bur-
rowa. At latest advices the alarmed “blanks” had
decided to postpone their inspection until the Law
had reasoned with Casey, or he can be bought off at
a fair figure.
* * * *
“Arcarlo”: It is a pity that “Cellu Loid,”
when he set out (B. 15/6/’II) to correct one “J.C.C.”
concerning the cus-
toms of the Solomons,
knew so little about
his subject. To start
with, this talk of girls
being hedged by strict
tribal laws is all my
foot, as any trader or
recruiter knows; and,
as long as the “dol-
lars” are forthcoming,
hundreds of the beau-
ties may be purchased
on Malaita. Also
“Mala” is not the cor-
rect name of Malaita,
except a t Fui. At
Q.uoi it is “Malatta,”
and differs elsewhere
according to the dia-
lect. For the interest
of “J.C.C.” let me re-
late the story of the
creation as it was told
to me by one tribe. A
maiden of high degree
in the spirit world,
which is in the stars,
was captured by a
devil, and forced to
become his wife. By
incantations she caused
him to sleep heavily,
and escaped, but, on
returning to her own
star, her former people
cast her forth with
fierce curses, and her
familiar spirit, in
charity, turned her in-
to the shape of a
turtle, and in that
form she fell from the
star into the sea. She
reached Malaita, and,
as is customary with
the turtles, deposited
a large number of eggs
on the beach. From
half of these eggs were
hatched snakes, alliga-
tors, and all manner
of venomous animals.
Only two eggs of the other half hatched, but they
produced two glorious butterflies, which became the
parents of every good thing on Malaita, including
man and woman. The large blue butterfly extant
on that part of the island nowadays is a descendant
of the original pair.
* * * *
“Geofred” : If “Snakebite” is right that
there are no rabbits in South Gippsland, it is not
at all a curious fact, even although the grasslands
are first-class. In many parts of Queensland, with
splendid grass and water in plenty, bunny is as
scarce as Wowsers. For instance, on the Darling
Downs, where I have done much travelling per train,
coach, bike and boot, I haven’t counted even one
rabbit. It all depends on the chance bunny is
given, and in some parts of Bananaland rabbit-proof
fences give him no chance at all.
“A.Y.A.” : Apart from copper, the Mount
Perry mines (Q.) are rich in overgrown cockroaches
and overfed frogs, which live and die in perpetual
darkness at any depth to 1100 ft. The ’roaches grow
to a gigantic size, being on an average about six
times as big as the domestic variety, and their main
occupation is to supply the frogs with the means
of corpulence. They do it with the utmost success.
AWKWARDLY PUT.
REV. RAWLEY : “ Oh, yes, my young friend, our
Wednesday evening church card parties
have achieved their object. We are now
profiting abundantly. Trust me, the church has always something up her sleeve."
“Snell”: The train was a few miles on
the far side of Bealiba when it drew up with a jump
and a few bumps. A frantic bucolic, with huge
feet, had been seen bounding down the line, flutter-
ing a red neckerchief on the end of a stick. When
the train stopped, Bright Boy fell down from ex-
haustion or emotion, and required five minutes for
rest and recuperation before he could speak. Then
he tumbled it out: “They’s a big bull on the line
this side Reidy’s. If you was to run into him it ’d
throw ’er off the line.” “But why not have driven
the bull off ?” asked the guard. “Well, I’m jigged,”
said Bush Intelligence, “I never thought o’ that!”
He had run close upon four miles. When we
reached Reidy’s the bull had gone home to lunch,
Still, the train was saved.
* * * *
“Geofred” : Almost any bird (of the Aus-
tralian bush, anyhow) will destroy its nest eggs at
once upon discovering the trace of human fingers;
others hatch the eggs and then destroy the young,
An instance of this latter peculiarity came under
my notice after handling the eggs of a pair of swal-
lows. Three young ones were hatched and then
thrown on to my balcony, where I found them dead,
In the case of a canary, if you even breathe on its
nest while incubation is going on, the bird will
break the eggs by throwing them overboard.
* * * *
“Pick”: About the most sweated and un-
desirable billet in N.S.W. is that of manager of an
aborigine station. He is required to act as school-
master, station storekeeper, purveyor of free rations,
blankets and clothing, director of agriculture and
pastoral experiments, caretaker, architect, medical
attendant, spiritual adviser, night watchman and
T n•,j. , it t •
camp Judkins to suppress drink, gambling and mi-
morality. These various duties bring him under the
several directions of the Education Department,
travelling school inspector, the police, the Govern-
ment medical officer, the Aborigines’ Protection
Board, and a local Board appointed by the A.P.B.
from the neighboring landowners and cockies who
draw upon the camp for their supply of cheap
labor. If the alleged manager falls foul of the
local Board, as he surely will if he attempts to do
justice to his charge, he finds that** his name is
plain Mud there; while admonitions and reprimands
from headquarters, where he has no influence, fall
upon him like chimney-pots in an earthquake. So,
by degrees, he learns to let things slide, and takes
it as read that the Department brands him as in-
competent and indolent.
“Montalex”: “L. 8.” (B. 22/6/T1) does
not give the species of his 36ft. shark; but that
length is often exceeded by two kinds—one the most
formidable of all sharks, the other the most harmless,
The latter—the basking shark or bone shark—some-
times reaches 50ft. It feeds upon small marine
creatures, which, like the whale, it traps in a kind of
“strainer.” But in the shark this strainer does not
consist, as “L. 8.” supposes, of baleen (whalebone),
It is formed of long, slender “rakers,” which are
really prolongations of the gill-arches. The other
big shark is Carcharodon rondeletii , or white shark,
I have assisted at the capture of one of these brutes
that was 42ft. long* measured 25 inches across the
widest part of the jaw, and had teeth 2Jin. long by-
ljin. broad at the base. I don’t know anything of
the Polynesian sharks referred to by “L. 8.” as being
to ° slow in turning to catch an expert and cool-
headed swimmer, but I can affirm that no swimmer
would have the remotest chance of escaping the white
shark, since, for all its length, this terrible fish is
lightning-quick, and can overhaul even the nimble
albacore and bonito, though both of them are specially
“built for speed.” This sea terror is a survival from
the giant sharks of past ages, and the species is
rapidly disappearing.
* * * *
“Te Matan”: The bird te tcra beni of the
Equatorial Pacific Islands, mentioned, by “Te Babar-
(?- 15 /6/’ll), .is -a species of land rail pe-
™i.? W ; Iy J n f. lslands ° "‘ e Pa <f fl c, and J
, the . Z I l ndlcs - Dn Kubary he German
■ ,,rahst who dl f 1,1 the Oarolme Islands many
“ ed several live specimens but all
~ ~, p -, 1 y ’ . re liS n ” 0 tave food - e stat< ; d
“ ? ’a if' ranges from a dull brown to
black, that its habits are nocturnal, and that its food
. ’ n , , , , ’ “ , „ , '
\. tbe *™all hermit crab (also a nocturnal feeder),
W \ c 3 I 1 ™' s . lr ! ow isplnds \ According to the
natives the bird utters a peculiar, low, wh stlmg
" ote wben * ™, across a hermit crab which in-
duf “ tbe . shellflsh .*° / alBe lts . prawn-hke antennae
ar ! < , , ea 111 a PP rova °f the music, and before it can
withdraw and apologise it has been yanked out of its
conical shell and 18 on the road to the “tenor,
* * * *
“Left Hand”: The big Groperland squat-
ter put it this way to his friend: “I done the right
thing bv me daughters. I’ve had them girls edyercated
... . ,
* 1 1 f? 1 e era le es °f everything; and
r;OW their edyercation’s finished they’re pro
bono publico.”
A CRUSHER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A row arose in Tanner’s bar
About a simple glass of beer,
And Gill and Micks began to spar.
Micks got a sore distended ear;
Gill took nine seconds on the floor,
Already stained with nasal gore.
They fought another round or two,
And at the gong Gill found he had
Two bunged-up ej r es of heavenly blue,
And sundry bruises to the bad.
lie funked, but, as is oft the case,
Cursed vividly to save his face.
He called his foe a crimson swine,
A dog, a skunk, a‘ hog or so,
And then, with scorn extremely fine,
He launched this culminating blow:
“Garn! Here’s a bit for you to chew,
You cow —My wife’s not true to you!’’
VICTORIA.
SILAS SNELL.


gjf
Carters
■ITTLE
IVER
PILLS.
Your Liver
is Clogged Up
That’s Why You’re Tired- Out of
Sorts—Have No Appetite.
CARTE It’S LITTLE LIVER PILLS
will put you ri"ht in a few days.
They do their duty. Cure Consti-
pation, Biliousness, Indigestion, and
Sick Headache.
Small Pill, Small Dose, Small Price.
GENUINE must bear Signature
If you have the time you should read the Scien-
tific Australian. In the last issue, amongst a
variety of subjects, are: —Moving pictures r every-
where ; coal engines; air buses; industrial safety
associations; dynamite diminishes farm work; motor
battleships ; what an accident costs. The subscription
is 2/6 per annum, payable by postal note or stamps.
It is made in Australia, by Australians, for Aus-
tralians. Write patent attorneys Phillips Ormonde &
Co., 266 Flinders Street, Melbourne.*
A.N.A. Secretary writes:
“ It is astonishing how little
we know of our own in-
dustries; I shall always use
CALDWELL’S INKS in future.”'
PLASMON COCOA
“ A Delicious Beverage af much greater
nutritive value than ordinary Cocoa. 1
-British Medical Journal.
PLASMON IS USED BY THE ROYAL FAMILY.
Australian Depot: 5 & 7 Barrack St., Sydney.
.. GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Most centrally situated .Hotel in Sydney.
Best place to ldti'ch dnd dine in town.
J. W. COCKBA(N.E, Proprietor.
“Cellu Loid”: It wasn’t the missionary
who gave the Solomon Islands nigger the thick end
of the stick in trading, as stated bv “Berkeley”
(B. l/6/’ll). It was the old traders themselves,
who, in an endeavor to keep out the younger and
more business-like men, increased the rate of pay-
ment to black brother; and when the younger men
kept going at the higher figure, burning benzine and
half cleaning out the trading ports before the old''
hands had fairly started on the round trip, the child-
like heathen saw the game and played one trader
against the other, until the pace became too hot, and
a schedule of prices was agreed upon under a bond
of £5O. That waS about three years ago; but thd
Traders’ Association, as it was called, did not last
long, mainly for the reason that the bulk of those
who formed it had been too long amongst the niggers
to remember the white man’s code of unwritten
laws. To “Berkeley” I wish to utter a warning
against becoming friendly with the niggers. The
white man should never let his color be forgotten,
for nine out of 10 of the murders in the Solomons
have happened through the white being too friendly
and giving the black a chance. There is no word
in the three main Solomon languages for friendship,
and the native doesn’t know what it means. The,
best price buys his produce, and often enough the
buyer produces all the friendliness there is by sitting
in a deck-chair with a Colt .38 in hand, while the
mate or boy .hands out the trade.
A QUESTION OF ETIQUETTE.
DIGNIFIED PERSON (to his black boy, who insists on riding alongside): “Look heah, you
know, you musin' t ride heah; you follow behind.”
BILLEE JAMPOT (highly amused): “ You been makit prurry mistake, boss. You been
thin kit me one pfeller pack-horse
“Hayseed”: The description of the fight
between a black hornet and a spider in a recent
Bulletin reminds me of what happened when I
threw a wasp into a spider’s lace-factory. The
owner of the place made a rush towards the visitor,
and there was murder in his eye until he got within
half an inch of the wasp, when that insect hissed,
“Bur—r buzz,” which, being translated, means,
“Come any closer and I’ll” —. The spider stopped,
scratched his head, and considered. Then he pulled
a rope from around his waist or somewhere and tried
to lasso the wasp; but the rope fell short, and the
awful language decided old web-spinner to empty
the enemy into space. Climbing to the rafters of his
premises, he shook them until he gave the wasp the
hiccoughs, but didn’t get rid of him. Finally, he
wiped the honest sweat from his brow, slowly de-
scended, sorrowfully cut away the front portion of
his house, and let the wasp fall to the ground. “The
curse of Cromwell on you, you cow,” he said, as he
looked down from the wreckage. Anyhow, I reckon
that’s what he said.
SPOILS TO THE VICTOR.
BELOVED OF MANY : “ Well, and how was it
settled between you?"
WINNING SLICE: “Heads; and I won, dear!"
“Rufus Rechabite”: Following the re-
marks of “Leo Lear” concerning the attractions of
highly-colored book-covers, what’s wrong with the
compulsory covering of books to match their in-
teriors ? Thus, minor poems would wear pale pink
and subdued violet; patriotic eruptions, red, white
and blue; O’Dowd, ethereal blue with zigzag light-
ning ; sermons and tales with a moral, drab ; novels
supplying three murders and a suicide, bright red
with yellow trimmings ; four murders and a betrayed
heroine, black with scarlet borders; racing stories,
Cohen’s nose in high relief; “problem” stories, bright
blue, edged with flesh tints; the collected works of
“Bellerive,” blood splashes front and back. Thus we
would all know what we were buying, borrowing or
stealing.
* * * *
“Obix”: Satisfied the emu could digest
the 10 Commandments. The other day a couple of
them, kept as pets on a farm near Dubbo (N.S.W.),
surreptitiously swallowed two tins of white lead.
And, apparently, they didn’t even have a headache.
Wang : After long experience, I can’t
agree with “Leo Lear” that it is the glaring color of_
a book-cover that chiefly influences the Outbacker in
selecting a volume of reading matter. It is the
colored illustration on the cover that focusses Jim-
bill. Look at the popularity so long held in the
bush by the old “yellow-back.” With a horse pic-
ture on the glazed cover you couldn’t sell a Nat
Gould story quick enough ; and if it wasn’t the cover
that made the sales, I’d be charmed to know what it
was. The “penny dreadful” publishers discovered
the trick long years ago. Further proof lies in the,,
fact that everywhere Outback, in shearing-shed,
boundary-hut and other sanctuaries of Bill Sunburnt,
you’ll find these covers either in home-made frames
or tacked on the walls.
* * • *
“Mr. Ocky”: “Left Hand” (B. 22/6/’lll
writes of a remarkable coincidence concerning an Ade-
laide tram-ticket and a Tatt.’s winning number, and
says he does not expect anybody to believe it. Why
not ? These things do happen, as an experience of
mine will show. One Friday (I will send you the
exact date for 2d. in stamps) I was tossed out of a
vehicle, over the side of a bridge, and into a dirty
stream. When I reached the bottom of the trickle
something hard came in contact with my hand, and
I hauled it to the surface to investigate. It was a
small, nicely-bound box, containing 50 £lO notes.
There was also a letter, addressed to me by my worst
enemy, stating that the money was to be mine.
* * * *
“Cliloo”: I see “Montalex” owns up to
being a naturalist, and that’s why I appeal to him
to tell me why all members of naturalists’ clubs have
the animation of museum mummies. I spent part of
a quite recent night at a “Microscopic Evening” ; at
least, I meant to, but dropped in on a “swarry” of
the long-dead Pharaohs instead. The Pharaohs had.
their longest-dead wives with them and none pf the
dancing girls. Good Lord deliver me from such an-
other show! Have had pneumonia ever since from
the charnel-house draught. First, a pale patriarch
read in a death-rattle something about the life history
of the wild bee; while a melancholy procession of
other long-deads grouped themselves round micro-
scopes, which revealed this attractive mental menu:
(1) A wild bee’s tongue; (2) its hinder legs; (3)
its for’ard wings; (4) its “innards” (several “in-
nards”). After gushing over the most intimate
parts of the wild bee, we were invited to consider a
water flea, very much alive —indeed, the only live
creature present. The flea hopped, skipped, made
love to several partners (who produced several fam-
ilies on the spot). I knew what was coming! We
should presently be urged to come up and inspect
the flea’s interior. When I heard it rumbling in the
distance, I rushed to where I could hear the gladsome
rattle of street cars.
* * * *
“Walkabout” : About two years ago, in an
Outback mining centre in W.A., a man sold his camp
and a woman for half a crown. The new owner shifted
the whole caboose to a new field, and now the couple
have one of the best-paying shanties on the line. A
casual pair like that were cut out for sly-grog
sellers. W.A. sly-grog shanties, by the way, are
known nowadays as “State hotels,” and the baptis-
mal names of the owners generally come to light
only when the matter is being explained to the Beak.
At other times they are satisfied with trade names.
A few: “Soretoe,” “Hookie,” “Wingy,” “The Mi-
crobe,” “Nine-mile Liz,” “German Jack,” “Floro-
dora,” “Mulga Queen,” “Highland Mary,” and “Kan-
garoo Kate.’”
* * * *
“Polecat Pete”: Will someone on the
mainland tell me whether the slang phrase, “Snatch
it,” is used there by miners when they announce
their intention of “drawing their time”? It is
common on the mining fields of Tassy, especially in
the N.W., but I never heard it anywhere else.
“Frank” : While big-gun shearers -and ex-
peditious cane-cutters jostle for places in the Hurry-
up Stakes, let me butt in with a word for the hust-
ling maize-picker. Herewith ’a few tallies put up
this season by the men who hurry the hominy off the
stalk in the Gippsland district. In an eight-hour
hustle, Ted Callagan v. Tom Denis, the latter
husked, picked and bagged 48 bags; the other 474.
Callagan, however, claimed a win on weight. An-
other brother, George Denis, put up a record of 53
bags in nine hours ; but brother Tom claims the belt
with 60 bags in 104 hours. The Abo. liar who beats
this will have to move.
* * * •
“Staw”: When “Whaffor” (B. 22/6/’ll)
alleges that there is no aiicommodatibh at Loxton,
River Murray, for travellers; 1 he is : taikjiig bosh. I
don’t know (and I don’t mudh’ care) wffat Waikerie
has; but at Loxton there is one'of the'best-run, pubs
in S. Aus. outside the city boundary, and it is even
better than crowds of those inside. If “Whaffor”
had to doss under a tree, it must have been because
he couldn’t see the pub on account of the “buiuboat”
rum he speaks about. ‘
* * * m;"" ' *■
From an article in N’York EVeninu
Journal, being “the true and correct . .history of Bob
Fitzsimmons,” who was something in tlie ’lighting
line:— ,
Bob still wanted to come to America. He had the
£5O from the Hall fight, but that was, not enough.
Kangaroo skins were then selling in Sydney for about
£l5 apiece, so Bob decided to go hunting fbr, fhem.
With another man he travelled into ‘the interior to
Maruruland for kangaroo, or, as the Australians call
them, wallabees. He was engaged in this for several
months, and returned with quite a few skins
after having quite a few adventures. Three
times Bob was in danger of his life'.* The first
of these occasions was when he , * was'-pursued - by a
number of female kangaroos and had to make, use of
his long legs to reach a nearby, tree and climb to
safety. Still another time he and’lns partner were
forced to flee from a tribe of bushrneh. In doing so
they lost their way and wandered' around for several
days without food or drink until t. by chance they
found their way out to civilisation.
The article, curiously enough, doesn’t mention the
historic occasion when Fitzsimmons, having been
elected President of Milparinka, which; had only just
been proclaimed a republic, was called up late at
night to repel an attack of wombats. The Com-
mander-in-chief had fled in terror to, Geelong, and,
though Fitzsimmons protested that he had never rid-
den in a balloon in his life, he led the fleet down the
Cotter, and won the Burrinjuck Handicap, carrying
lOst. 61b. But it was a very close thing, and Fitz.
carries the scars to this day.
* * * #
“Jimmie Crow” : Now that we have de-
cided on the friendliest bush bird, what about the
friendliest bush animal? I place them: (1) The
W.A. boodie rat, (2) native cat, (3) carpet snake.
“L. 8. ”: A recent Abo. par may be cor-
rected by William Wyatt Gill, whose notes on the
natural history of the Cook group of islands are
accepted by scientists as authoritative. He relates
that, during continuous bad weather, sea eels (not
sea snakes), unable to obtain their usual fish food
on the reefs owing to the tremendous surf, found
their way on shore, and, wriggling upon the rough
trunks of the pandanus palm, preyed upon the
lizards with which the trees were infested. Also, I
can add that there are fish-hunting pigs, in the
Equatorial, Pacific Islands, just as there are . fish-
hunting dingoes in North Queensland in drought
time, when the rivers are merely chains of shallow
pools, in which fish become literally packed.'.- The
razor-backed, half-wild pig, of the atolls, wanders
about the reefs at low tide', finding in every shallow
pool the lazy, slow-swimming pipe-fish, the spiky
echidna and the smaller octopi. They all help to
vary the menu.
THE SCIENTIFIC MARRIAGE
BUREAU.
Amongst the newest social movement's to attain
prominence in England i 3 one for improving the
human race by substituting, for the present .haphazard
method of selection a system under which "scientific
measures will be adopted to ensure that the right
man shall always marry the right woman. —Daily
paper.
Professor: “ Madam, this is tlie-.-err~igentJt-
man zvho is undoubtedly mo it. fitted, to be-
come your husband. Congratulations l” r</r
“Spog” : In the name of the Great Sugar
cane, how many aliases docs treacle travel on
through the bush? Here are some of them: “Qock-
ies’-joy,” “Farmer’s-friend,” “Bqllocky’s-delight,’’f
“Oh-be-joyful,? “Wild honey,” “Malice- honey,”
“Bush honey,” “Cosmetique,” and .“Varnish.” Mpst
foodstuffs appear under strange names Outback,
but treacle masquerades as a whole dictionary,
THE GREAT STAMPEDE OF THE MAYORS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A movement is gaining ground among the subur-
ban municipal councils for united action in opposi-
tion to the Greater Sydney scheme. — Daily paper.
The news blew in with the evening blast
That Greater Sydney had triumphed at last!
Straight forty-two mayors
Rose from their chairs,
Seized their chain-halters and galloped downstairs,
And, snorting and bucking, with Bloggs in the lead,
In a maddened drove
Towards Sydney Cove,
Thundered along in a wild stampede!
The crowds divided to left and right,
As the warning flew through the frosty night:
“Hey! Get to the deuce! ,
Hey! The Mayors are loose!
They’re charging the town and it’s no d —n use!
The police can’t stop them or round them up !
They’re racing as if for the Melbourne Cup!
Don’t stop to draw breath!
You’ll be trampled to death!
Good God! how they gallop, that terrible herd!
Hey ! clear the street!
Make way for their feet!
Give ’em plenty of room and a run. My word!
A nice thing to take us unawares!
Make way! Make way! Make way for the
Mayors! ”
The streets were bare as a beggar’s palm,
At the first shrill sound that broke the calm;
And from windows high,
Next the wind-swept sky,
White faces looked out and demanded “Why
Are these galloping Mayors on destruction bent ?”
But, right on the instant, the night was rent
With thunder and squeals
And clatter of heels
On the tramway metals and paving stones,
As the bolting Mayors, amid hoots and groans,
With harness flying, and chain-bits broke,
Wide-eyed with frenzy, and breathing smoke,
In a screaming torrent past “tart” and “bloke,”
Clattered and roared. ’Twas a sight to see!
Away like H —l,
They swept pell mell,
Galloping—galloping on to the Quay!
The North Shore Bridge had been safely cleared,
When Bloggs at the head of his mob appeared
In George-street North,
All flecked with froth;
The galloping herd at his hocks in wrath
Bounded and squealed; their broken chains
Jingled and clashed like patent reins.
With a terrible drumming of hoofs they swept
Past The Bulletin office, where poets wept,
And left for a moment their cherished beer,
To lean from the windows and gaily cheer.
The forty-two
Straight onward flew
To the broad bridge spanning the Harbor blue.
But a yell went up from the crowded course,
“There’s Town Clerk Jones on the dustman’s horse!
Does lie think he can stop,
With a hunting crop,
That terrible charge? He’ll be killed, of course!”
Now, Town Clerk Jones had ideas in his pate;
As the mob charged down at a frightful rate,
He wheeled his prad,
And flogged like mad,
And away at the head of the herd, by Gad,
He thundered and shouted, “Pull up there! Hi!
Pull up there! R7ioa ! It’s a lie! A lie!
Turn off there all!
Don’t you hear the call—
There’s a feed for each, a drink and a stall!
\ ou’ve had a good gallop and nobody dares
To dream now of taking your chains! Whoa,
Mayors l”
Then behind Clerk Jones on the dustman’s grey,
The forty-two Mayors in the easiest way,
Slowed down to a canter and then to a trot,
And Jones very cleverly led the lot,
Battered and bruised from bump and fall,
To drink and fodder in his Town Hall.
Now a collar of brass Jones proudly wears,
For stemming the Great Stampede of the Mayors.
N.S.W.
NATHANIEL LOBSTER.


Belinda (in background, explaining) ; •• You see, wo have no
gardener just now, and can’t get one, so we let pa da
up the tennis court, as he's the biggest I ”
THE GAME OFF.
Puffum : “ I’m blow’d If my caddy didn’t teld-
’phone me this morning that he couldn’t go round
with me to-day. as he was going out for a spin ln>
his new motor-car l ”
prodgrass: » And mine says he won’t caddyanymore
as he has taken to golf himself. Now. I don t mind
carrying a club or two. but how the devil you and
me are to get down to tee the ball -Come, we 11
chuck it t "
THE ALLEGED SCARCITY OP
LABOR.
Even so it will not do Fatman
any harm to know what it feels
like to “do the washing up.
Fatman: ‘Tlost alarming, doctor. A curious kind o' moisture has been
a-oozing out of my body an* e-dripping off my forehead lately.
What’s It mean?”
Doctor : " Hum t Haven’t been working or anything have you?”
Fat.: “ Ye—yes, I’ve had to ; can’t get labor.”
Doc.: ’* I seel That moisture you complain of is what we call, In the
lower classes, perspiration; but it is not necessarily a fatal symptom.’'
THE SWEATEES.


GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
WORLD-FAMED
HATS.
For
QUALITY.
For
DURABILITY.
A MOTHER’S PRAISE.
There is no better medicine made for children than
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy. Mrs. Greig, of
tree Street, Balmain, Sydney, in the following lette
tells other mothers about it: “My two children have
derived great benefit from taking Chamberlain
Cough Remedy; they both suffered from colds, u
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy afforded them ins n
relief, and by the time two bottles were taken
cure was effected. I can thoroughly recommen
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy to mothers i
dren suffer from any kind of coughs or colds.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
AUSTRALIAN ADMIRAL CRESWELL.
Executors in a will case to be laid on the
table over which the Probate Judge presides
in N.S.W. —-Lamb and Tripe. Gent One
will do whatever carving is necessary.
Up north the union organiser isn’t an agi-
tator any more. It happened this way.
While Tudor, Minister of Customs, was try-
ing to settle the sugar-workers’ trouble, Prit-
chard, organiser for the growers, referred to
Hall, organiser for the men, as “that agi-
tator Hall.” Presently Tudor referred to
“agitator Pritchard.” Then there was a
bubble—he (Pritchard) was an “adviser.”
“Very well,” said Tudor; “then for the future
we had better refer to Mr. Hall as an ad-
riser also.”
THE ERROR OF HIS WAY.
REV. PERSON (persuasively): “ But, my dear friend, surely you knew it was wrong to hit
the old gentleman on the head and rob him!”
DEAR FRIEND: “ Yus, governor; Ido now—he made such a blanky fuss about it.”
Grit? Charlie Hjorth (M.L.), aged 1.2,
was shooting sparrows, when he caught the
trigger in a twig, and blew his lower jaw
away. Naturally, he dropped in lieu of the
sparrows; but, pulling himself together, he
wrote a note explaining his trouble, for a.
vounger boy to take to the nearest house.
Then he wrote a note to his absent mother.
After that he started to walk to the neigh-
bor’s. A boy like that deserved to live; but
he didn’t.
E. M. Smith, a brother-in-law of S.A.’s
just-dead Surveyor-General Strawbridge, is
to fill the vacant position. Smith and Straw-
bridge entered the Survey Department on
the same day, just on 50 years ago. They
kept almost level, and, when Strawbridge
became head of the Department, Smith be-
came Deputy. Now that he has got to the
top it is hoped Smith will give up following
Strawbridge further —anyhow, for some
years. T. D. Porter, who will take Smith’s
place, is the son of a former Inspector of
Public Buildings who designed the Police
Court building, formerly used as a Supreme
Court.
Adelaide is sorely disappointed over the
distribution of Coronation baubles. Sailor
Creswell, Under-Secretary L. H. Sholl, and
Jones of the Waterworks —three rank out-
siders—beat the hot favorite, Lewis Cohen,
and the runners-up, W. J. Sowden (of the
Register) and Josh. Vardon, of the
Y.M.C.A. and Federal Senate. Cohen’s con-
sistent failure to secure a bauble has occa-
sioned much gossip, and, if Adelaide wasn’t
tied to the Commonwealth, it would probably
read a Declaration of Independence. It is
generally supposed that Sowden’s failure was
due to the fact that the Register, on one
terrible occasion, referred to King Edward,
quite accidentally, as the Kink.
Joseph Ward is only the third Austral-
asian in active politics to be baronetted,
and the other two were just about to pass
out. Dan’l Cooper was in the yellow leaf;
and, moreover, the authorities of his day let
it be known that his tag was not for politi-
cal activity, but for his thousand pounds, and
his conditional promise of many more, to
carry on the Crimean war, and for certain
contributions to a Lancashire fund. Charles
Nicholson, likewise, got his brand more as
medical man and educationist than as poli-
tician. Other Australasians who have been
’netted have merely, with an exception or
two, had the virtue of a heavy purse and
the cunning to open it at the right time.
The heirs of the late Thos. Daniel Chap-
man, Treasurer in the first Tasmanian Min-
istry under Responsible Government (1856),
and the successful “Tea and Sugar Tommy”
of ancient Hobart Town, auctioned the family
bric-ff-brac the other day. Included in a
waggon-load of old furniture was a bookcase
“that had once held portion of the library of
the late W. E. Gladstone.” It was knocked
down for £l4 10s. A silver salver bearing
the crest of the Polar explorer, Sir John
Franklin, went at 42 guineas.
“Geology” Brown, who after long and
valuable service is resigning his job as Geo-
logist of S.A., was one of the injured in the
Windsor railway accident (Vic.) 23 years
ago. Brown was sitting in the same com-
partment as banker Parkes, and of the six
persons there he was the only one who
escaped death.
Dr. J. Cox, President of the Australasian
(Sydney) Pioneers’ Club, is a grandson of
William Cox, Paymaster of the old N.S.W. or
Rum Corps. That pioneer arrived in the
Minerva in 1800, with General Joseph Holt
and other Irish exiles shipped at Cork. At
the first annual meeting of the Club the
other day Dr. Cox “shouted” for the mem-
bers, and there wasn’t a single noggin of rum
called for. These descendants are a de-
cadent lot.
Melbourne people knew Alfred Tennyson
Dickens for many years as a misplaced citi-
zen in a weather-beaten tall hat—“some-
thing in the city,” and apparently not very
much of a something. Now there is news
that his return to Europe, under Tait man-
agement, as a Dickens lecturer, has done
him “a world of good.” He lost himself in
Australia, but in Britain and now in
America he has found himself again, a
genial gentleman, the son of his father.
And the more he finds himself in demand,
professionally and socially, the more does
the erstwhile battered Alfred Ten. Dickens
smooth out his creases and rise to the oc-
casions ; and his new importance fits him
like a glove.
John Macintosh, M.L.C., died in Sydney
last week, aged 91. “Old John” had been in
the hardware business in Sydney for close-on
70 years. Some time ago he and a trade pro-
tection society fought one another through
all the Courts because the society had said
things about the Macintosh business. Ap-
parently all that was the matter was that
“Old John” didn’t approve of new-fangled
ideas. They tell a yarn in the trade that
once —long ago, no doubt —the old gentleman
decided to have a stocktaking, and see how
he stood. He started business (he was an
assisted immigrant) with £lO or thereabouts.
So he counted up stock to the value of
£lO (or thereabouts) ; then counted enough
to square the debts; and then he knocked off.
“No need to go any further,” he said, accord-
ing to the trade yarn ; “the rest is profit.”
But “Old John’s” name was always good,
and the wonderfully active ironmonger—who
tramped into town almost to the last—had a
whole city-full of friends.
After 40 years among lunatics, A. C.
Deane retired as head-attendant at Parks'de
(S.A.) Asylum on June 30, and 1055 pa-
tients regretted his departure. The asylum
was opened in May, 1870, and Deane was
appointed in February, 1871. Miss Galviu,
the matron, joined the staff in 1871 also;
Watson, the secretary, has been at the in-
stitution even longer, and so has dispenser
Dickson; but Resident Medical Officer Cle-
land is a comparatively new officer, having
had his job only 32 J years.
Charles French, who for 46 years has
been busy with the weeds and grubs and in-
sects of Victoria, has retired from the billet
of Government Entomologist. In ’65 French
started his Government career as a work-
man in the Melbourne Botanical Gardens.
Von Mueller, the excellent German Baron,
who was Government Botanist, had a keen
eye for a likely man, and picked out French
for his assistant. Twenty-two years ago he
was appointed Government Entomologist.
Before entering upon his rest he completed
his valuable work on the destructive insects
of Victoria, for which the cockies ought to
be eternally grateful. Charles, his son, is
now acting-Entomologist, and seems to have
been marked as the old gentleman’s perman-
ent successor.
The men of the Age the other night dined
J. S. Stevens, 25 years sub-editor, along with
departing roundsman Jim Beckett. Stevens
graduated on the Bendigo Independent and
xldvebtisek— -which are, or were, the finest
schools for pressmen in Australia —and is
that rare “sub” who is admitted by the staff
to improve the “copy” he handles. Harry
Clarke, the Age printer, told the diners that
in his 42 years in the office lie had seen eight
“subs.” Two are now in Heaven, and three
still prefer the Age office —editor Schuler,
Short (editor of the Leader) and Stevens.
Beckett, as already told, goes to the Northern
Territory as Protector of Black Brothers;
Stevens, having been born with a blue pencil
in his mouth, couldn’t live outside a news-
paper office if he wanted to.
The late Col. Tom Price, of Victoria, had
a bad stvle, and was indiscreet and all that,
and so he came to say during the maritime
strike that if the command was given to the
citizen soldiers to fire low and lay ’em out,
they must obey. But Tom had good points,
lie came while Softgoods Sargood was mak-
ing an earnest attempt to give some reality
to the Victorian War Office. Sargood was
early in the field in perceiving the Asiatic
danger. He gave Price a free hand, and
Tom smashed up a heap of tomfoolery. One
of his exultations was in pounding up the
Prince of Wales Victoria Volunteer Light
Horse, an awful burlesque, performed by
swells in busbies, with a bit of red flannel
hanging out. Price it was who. after that,
introduced the khaki uniform of the Rebels
in the American Civil War, and these uni-
forms ultimately set the fashion for all Aus-
tralia.
MINISTER FOR WORKS McKENZIE
(M.L.).
Keir Hardie, M.P., presented Andrew
Fisher to London Daily News as a devout
Caledonian whose heart “will ever be at
liame in dear auld Scotland,” and who, Id
years ago, “brought his young wife home
that their first-born might see the light in the
dear auld land,” which “he loves with all the
poetic fervor of the patriot.” Surely this
picture was not submitted to the Prime Min-
ister for approval before publication. As the
result of circumstances which he created tor
himself, Andrew Fisher is an Australian
patriot; he is a native of Scotland merely
through circumstances over which he had
no control. And, as for Keir Hardie s refer-
ence to the Scottish nationality of hisher,
jun., it reminds one that a Scotch marquis
named Linlithgow lately claimed that his
brother was Australian, because he happened
to be born in Melbourne.
A RHYME OF TRIMMINGS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
With scraps of tin and ribbon tucked across his
manly chest,
The Guv’nor gleams and glitters in his beauteous
Sun lay-best,
With trimmings on his headgear and his coat-tails,
for it is
ilis turn to open Parliament. A gaudy guise is his,
And he is decked and garlanded and hung from neck
to knee
With trimmings great and small, to help him with
his dignity !
Wearing a bunch of horsehair where the bumps of
Justice sprout,
In decorated English does his Honah deal it out
To plain, untrimmed offenders. In a sweet dream of
a gown
With scathing words his Honah takes the brazen
burglar down ;
And, in his skirts and horsehair frills his llonali’s
just as proud
As Percy, glad in cackling checks and socks that
howl aloud.
And when in gay November comes the Admiral to
town
For early Spring manoeuvres, and to take the bookies
down,
With trimmings, in a blaze of guff, “his Excellency”
goes
To see his Ex. the Governor, and ask him what he
knows.
Judge, Governor and Admiral—-their minds on trim-
mings bent,
Each of them seems, this trinity, less man than orna-
ment !
Judge, Governor and Alderman, Inspector of Strange
Smells,
Brave, brass-bound Admiral, and him whom use or
pride impels
To trim his simple fighting-duds with gay, glad,
girlish gauds—
A curious, quaint array of prinked and trimmed and
padded frauds!
For though the Regulations frown on flummery and
frill,
The scarlet target-coat is dear to city soldiers still.
Yet, do we view with pleasure shiny buttons by the
score,
And feel true admiration for the ha’penny councillor
Who pants for ’possum trimmings and a petty sort
of state?
Shall we glitter ? Or if glitter means disaster, soon
or late,
Say, shall we save Australia on the patriotic plan
Of him, the plain Australian, who attempts to be a
Man?
When we at last must rise and strike for our Aus-
tralian pride,
Who’ll fill the breach in breeches with a stripe on
either side ?
What shall it help Australia, this gold-braid, gilt
and frill —
Plumes robbed from noble roosters, killed to make
us fit to kill?
Flash trimminsrs. tarnished tassels, feather-dusters
out of place?
Shall we find in shabby Trimmings the salvation of
our race?
VICTORIA.
FRANK HENTY.


f
N
£i
i
m
\ "i&
\ m
:. m m
-m, w%
& mm
&&
i-S
■
35
% m »
\ V*»JmP
Kiti
111®
4%,'tl
m
sfe
mbm
mm
M
fern*
»
w
mt
is&l
amt
ill
srafe3s?©
©V
>1
mrn^i
&. M2;s&'
Vi
SSfe
feWi.
«%%j
ks&. 'Ve*.
sra
Si
im>
ayggijfl
4k di
Mi
m
5®S
f II
ffaRHHK
m m
W&,
WW& i§ m I
ft* s#v vtg; m 4
;K[MM eCC,V J ,
& M ill # It /!
feiljgfffi
V, ';
fr, *?vSsW t: -?&
*•= ife> ‘^ ;
M iff
i jg $
s&£l *&;
tei
-• fi
¥8
II 111 I
fts Mif •■''•* <®
i% -S fc> $
#s#&#
Ml! I
111
i
rfftft
a 35 •% M i
«■ & $
Mf
I
k $?;
JTOW
ff? € f §
iIJ I Us
'£; \
m
Am
i*y<s
;ji>. .5
SE 3
'M
mm
w
CORRECT!
{N cut, style and finish ! Since 1868 we have been perfecting “ The Austral Suit,” and to-day it
stands correct. As regards our range of tweeds, these have been selected from an experience
extending over 43 years —we were established in 1868 —and we specialise in Australian wool-
lens, “ all wool, pure wool and nothing but wool,” made by our old friends, Vicars of Marrickville.
We quote 635., 705., 755. machine made, or 845., 905., 955., 105 s. hand made, and, on
receipt of a postcard, will send you full range of patterns with self-measurement form.
Gowing Bros
Pioneer Distributors of Australian Goods,
486. 488, 490 George Street ; and 7,9, 11, 13, 15
and 17 Royal Arcade, Sydney.


WORTHINGTON POMPS
General Service.
Boiler Feeding, Mining, Marine, Irrigation, Hydraulic, Water Works, etc.
For CATALOGUES and
INFORMATION apply
32 S 34 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
PERKS, DANE & CO. PTY. LTD.
MELBOURNE
and SYDNEY.
“ P.D.” Grease & "P.D.” Yarn
90 per cent, cheaper than any other system of lubrication.
FULL PARTICULARS ON APPLICATION.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
During the financial year to the end of
June, N. S. Wales spent no less than £4,190,886 of
borrowed money. This shows how the loan expendi-
ture has been rushing upwards:—
1907 £1,058,553
1908 1,965,329
1909 2,906,507
1910 3,246,640
1911 4,190,886
Ostensibly, no doubt, most of this money has been
spent on “permanent and reproductive undertakings.”
There are, however, very few really permanent things
in this world ; for the science that knocked out the
horse-tram and substituted the cable system, and then
knocked out the cable system and gave us the electric
car, isn’t likely to stand still. There was a time
when the Labor party, having an idea that State
ownership meant State ownership, proposed to only
borrow for works that would pay interest and a sink-
ing fund. Where is that sinking fund now? In this
respect the Labor party is proving just the same as
any other party when it gets into the pie-shop. It
is pouring out money, knowing that, while he spends,
the spendthrift is a tremendously popular chap, no
matter where the money comes from. So long, how-
ever, as the State borrows the money and owes the
money, State ownership is half a fraud. The people
certainly don’t pay dividends ; but they pay interest
instead, and you can be kept just as hungry through
trying to pay one as the other.
* * * *
Queensland, with its mere handful of
people, leaned on Cohen to the extent of £1,995,302
last year. When Kidston was put into the Treasury
it was mainly because the people were satisfied that
the old crowd were a lot of boomsters. Kidston,
recognising that the State had borrowed far too much
already, cut down the loan expenditure, and that was
when Wullie began to look like a white-haired boy.
But the old drift soon set in; and things have moved
this way:—
1905 .. £225,466 1909 ..£1,247,821
1906 .. 297,624 1910 .. 1,486,216
1907 .. 683,570 1911 .. 1,995,302
1908 .. 1,033,676
Moreover, the State has recently made bargains with
various cos. to take over railway lines in the dim
distance, so the real growth of the State’s debt has
been even more rapid than that little list shows.
Of course all this money has been put into “perma-
nent and reproductive works” too. Two things have
to be remembered, however. First, their produc-
tiveness has been viewed in the light of fat years;
and the years won’t always be fat. Indeed, the
south and south-west are getting a taste of drought
now. And, in the second place, the works here, as
in other States, are being rushed on when labor is
much scarcer than usual, and when, therefore, it can
command higher rates than usual, and when, also,
high prices rule for practically everything. Which
of course means an abnormally heavy capital outlay
and an abnormally heavy interest bill.
* * * *
In S. Australia the Labor party’s finance
has one wretchedly bad feature. Some years ago
the State was selling practically no land. Lately it
has found that much of the mallee country is ex-
cellent for wheat-growing under favorable conditions;
and large areas have been alienated, or are in process
of alienation. The proceeds from this sale of assets
were only a few thousands a few years ago ; in 1909-
10 the total reached £155,387 for the year; in the
past 12 months it was no less than £274,138. This
money, as said just now, is derived from the sale of
assets, and is not revenue at all; on the contrary,
every sale diminishes the real revenue derivable from
the rent of lands. In N. S. Wales the Labor party,
bad as its finance is in many respects, has at any
rate been honest enough to refuse to treat this money
as revenue, to be used to pay the policeman’s wages
and so on; and the sooner S. Australia follows suit,
and either knocks off selling land altogether, or uses
the proceeds from the sale of one lot of assets ex-
clusively to purchase other assets, the better for the
Labor party’s reputation as well as for the State’s
record for honesty.
* * * *
In the past 12 months Australia and
Maoriland have sent John Bull 60,000 tons of butter.
So far as the three eastern States of the Common-
wealth are concerned, the principal agricultural ex-
ports figured in this way;—
Butter. Flour. Wheat.
N. S. Wales ...£1,237,962 £266,722 £2,381,142
Victoria 1,780,099 607,441 3,079,341
Queensland .. 751,590 593 11
Thus, though wheat still takes the lead, the value of
the exports of butter was greater than that of the
exports of flour. The total value of the 1910 butter
exports from Australia alone was £3,951,186; and,
though those figures are large in themselves, they are
all the more significant when it is remembered that
the trade has grown up during the past 20 years.
In 1889, the total Australian export was under one
million pounds—say 450 tons. And the market
seems almost unlimited. Mulhall’s latest statistics
show that the average annual quantities exported in
the period 1902-6 by the various exporting countries
was 610 million lb., of which only 47 million lb.
was exported by Australia. The U.K. imported, on
the average, 457 million lb. ; so that, if every lb. of
Australian exported butter had been sent to the U.K.
—which it wasn’t—it would still amount to only one-
tenth of the total quantity imported by J. ” Bull.
Moreover, the consumption is increasing. Mulhall
shows the average annual value of butter imported to
the U.K. as follows:
1859-65 ~ .. 3s. 2d. per head
1880-86 .. 6s. 7d.
1901-07 .. .. ns. 2d.
The market in Asia is growing fairly rapidly also;
and altogether the butter trade is obviously well
worth cultivating.
An astonishing fact is that, though 60,000 tons
were exported last year, near] - all of which went to
England, practically nobody i,. England ever hears
of Australian butter. Nobody ever asks for it;
nobody ever chalks it up. And that isn’t surprising
when it is known that, in the opinion of the best
authorities, who are well able to get at the facts,
between 60 and 70 p.c. of the Australian exports go
blenders > who pass it on as something else
altogether. Butter blending is quite an industry in
Britain; and it is so profitable that the big concerns
interested in it pay as much as 20 p.c. dividends.
The process is simple. Commonwealth law won’t
allow butter to be exported if it contains more than
15 p.c. of moisture; and the average actual moisture
is only a shade over 13 p.c. In Britain 16 p.c.
moisture is allowed; so, even if the importer, or the
man who buys from the importer, puts the butter
on the English market as butter, he can and does
pump 3, or nearly 3, p.c. of milk or water into the
Australian fat. After that he doesn’t, of course, put
it on the market as Australian butter. It may be
anything then—“best Dorset,” or “best Devon,” or
“best” anything-in-the-world except Australian. And
a remarkable thing is that, in its new condition, it
may, and often does, command a higher price than
oefore the 3 p.c. of moisture was pumped into it, to
the great profit of the “blender.” For one thing,
Australian butter, just out of the freezing chamber,
is exceedingly hard. The blender makes it more
“spreadable”; and “spreadability” means economy
to the big consumer. Also, the blended or faked goods
masquerade usually under a well-known name —it
may be the high-priced “French rolls,” for instance,
made perhaps in London. Apropos French rolls, an
Australian butter-man not long ago, visiting Nor-
mandy, found a pile of empty Australian butter cases.
The contents had been turned out, and undoubtedly
faked into “genuine French rolls.” The plant re-
quired in the faking is very inexpensive—£300 worth
could turn out five or six tons a day. Frequently
a small percentage of margarine is added to the
Australian butter in the process of its conversion to
“best French rolls,” The same game is played in
Ireland. During the winter, Irish butter-makers
are, in fact, the'best customers for Australian butter.
It goes without saying that the butter they buy never
sees the market as Australian.
But there is a person who goes even further than
the blender. Though in Britain you may not sell
butter containing more than 16 p.c. moisture, you
may sell stuff that can be used as butter, though it
contains up to 25 p.c. moisture. You may call it
anything you like except butter —“Creamos,” or
“Butterina,” and so on. No less than 48 of these
trade names are registered; and the sale of the
goods is enormous. Butter is the base of practically
all of them ; and the better the butter, the further it
will go in the manufacture of the faked food. As
Australian butter is extraordinarily good, a lot of it
is mopped up by these buyers.
Thus, one way and another, it is reckoned that
betwen 60 and 70 p.c. of the Australian butter to
reach England never gets to the consumer as Aus-
tralian butter. The Commonwealth goes to some
trouble to ensure the high quality and honesty of the
product, and some of the producers go to still more
trouble to make a good name for themselves; and
then their product is dumped into a blending machine
and its identity is completely lost. It does not even
appear as “Australian blended.” Instead, it in most
cases is made to masquerade under the name of one
of Australia’s rivals in butter production. Every lb.
of good Australian butter put on the English market
as such would be an advertisement for Australian
butter, and the market for the goods would be thus
improving all the time, and the price would tend uo-
wards. But that advantage is lost; if the quality is
good, a rival mostly gets the benefit of it.
How the trouble is to be got over isn’t too clear.
It might be possible to prevent Australian butter
being sold as anything else ; but the prospects don’t
seem very cheerful, because, unfortunately, this isn’t
a matter with which our own Government can deal.
It certainly should, however, be possible to convince
J. Bull’s Government that a gross wrong is being
done to Australia in permitting Australian products
to be sold as “best Dorset.” or best anything else
except Australian. Australia doesn’t allow German
or French goods to masquerade in Australia as “best
British” ; and there ought to be reciprocity in these
matters. Then, no doubt, if there is (as there
seems to be) a real demand for “blended” butter,
the stuff would have to be sold as “blended Austra-
lian.” All the time, however, pure Australian butter
should be steadily advertised in the big market. There
is bound to be trouble over the old question of paying
the bill —who should do it ? Seeing that it is partly
to establish a trade for future producers, the Com-
monwealth might meet some of the cost of adver-
tising ; the balance ought to come out of the pockets
of those in the industry. One-twentieth of a penny
per lb., spent in the right way, would famjliarise
J. Bull’s millions with the fact that there are other
good butters in the world besides the “Dosset,” etc.,
they have been used to. Certainly something must be
done. It is intolerable that, in our biggest market,
the bulk of our goods should have their Australian
name stripped from them before they go to the public.
It isn’t in that way that big businesses are built up.
* * * *
The Electric Light Department op the
Melbourne City Council :
Paid Contri- Writ-
Gross as in- bution ten To Re- Re-
Feb., Profß. terest. to City. Off. serves, serves.
1901.. £11,786 £5,179 £6,607 £28,939
1902.. 10,566 17,866 21.639
1903 . 23,56-i 11,791 11,777 33,416
1904.. 30,877 12,750 18,127 51,543
1905.. 36,636 13,395 £lOOO £12,608 9,633 61,176
1906.. 40,986 13,456 1000 5,650 2U.850 82,056
1907.. 48,722 14,386 1500 5,039 27,797 109,853
1908.. 53,761 16,144 3000 62,079 82,391
1909.. 57,323 16,343 5000 5,532 30,448 112,839
1910.. 63,842 17,06! 7000 4,346 35,430 148,269
1911.. 70,078 17,533 9500 7,698 35,347 183,616
This very successful municipal undertaking is man-
aged by a committee of the City Council; the organi-
sation was pretty well perfected—so far as it has
been perfected—in the days when Malcolm McEaeharn
was mayor. The capital was provided by loans,
which amount to £526,000. The first of these loans,
raised in 1892, carries 4 p.c., and is due in 1922;
even at 4 p.c. it was issued at a small discount.
When the financial success of the scheme was assured,
subsequent loans were got for 31 p.c. They all carry
a sinking fund of 1 p.c. p.a.—not very large, but
capable of wiping out the debt, and making the
undertaking really the property of the city, in 40
or 45 years, according to the interest earned by the
fund. When the city is free of Cohen and owns the
works there will, of course, be no interest to pay,
which will mean that there will be another £lB,OOO
or so to spend on new works, or in reducing the
charges, or in any other way that may strike the
fancy of the council. Meantime, in order to provide
for the renewal of the works as they get beyond
repair, a Depreciation Fund is being built up. The
contributions to this depreciation fund were absurdly
small at first; but they are now of a respectable size.
This shows, first, how the past year’s profits were
made up (a few other figures are added for com-
parison) ;
1908. 1909. 1910. 1911.
Balance, working a/C.. £49,599 £52,458 £58,916 £63,934
Sinking fund interest.. 1,971 2,241 2,495 2,779
Renewals fund interest 2,046 999 1,768 2,676
Profit on sales of plant,
debentures, etc. .. 145 1,625 663 689
Total profit ..£53,761 £57,323 £63,842 £70,078
The first table shows in a general way what has been
done with this profit. The net additions made to the
various funds can be followed from the next little
table
1903. 1909. 1910. 1911.
Sinking Fund.. ..£40,985 £63,982 £71,378 £79,417
For renewals, etc. .. 48,778 74,333 102,864
P. and L. balance, Dr. 7,569
.. „ Or. 79 2,558 1,335
Total .. .. £33,416£112,839£148,269£183,616
That total corresponds, of course, with the total of
reserves given in the first table; and, after consider-
ing the size of the Depreciation Fund, one is bound
to say that the reserves are not so good and big as
they look. The Depreciation Fund, as mentioned
above, is a reserve to provide for the renewal of
worn-out plant, etc.; so the fund, as it is accumu-
lated, is really a set-off against wear and tear which
has actually occurred. The Sinking Fund, which is
for the repayment of Cohen, is invested in public
securities (mostly Board of Works and Savings
Bank debentures). Frequently concerns of this kind
drop their Depreciation Fund back into the business.
This one adopts the very prudent course of keeping
its fund liquid; the £102,864 shown above is made
up as follows:
Public securities .. .. .. .. £11,132
Bank deposits (34 p.c.) . . .. .. 63,610
Year’s contribution due (payable in cash) 28,’122
Total £102,864
It is the most satisfactory Depreciation Fund that
The Bulletin knows.
A contribution of £9500 to the city treasury is
made out of the year’s profits. The wisdom of this
is very doubtful. Originally, when a small contri-
bution was made, the council excused the grab on the
plea that it was surely entitled to some recompense
toi having' made itself liable for the loans at a time
when it was uncertain whether the thing would pay
or not. But a grab of £9500 a year is not to be
excused on that ground. The primary object of this
enterprise is to supply the citizens with cheap light
and power ; it is a perversion of the whole spirit of
the thing to turn the business into a scheme to relieve
the rates at the expense of the users of the light and
power. No doubt this sort of thing suits the Gas
Co. admirably; that concern would probably he glad
if the council would put up the prices, so that it
could extract another £9500 from the consumers to
go in relief of rates. But this municipal enterprise
wasn t designed in the interests of the Gas Co. The
grab is the one unsatisfactory feature of the under-
taking.
The next table shows some further details:—
„ „ Works’ Capital
. Revenue. Expenditure. Profit. Outlay.
1901 .. £35,727 £24,462 £11,265 £204 051
1903 .. 64,008 41,352 22,656 324’979
•’ 72,214 33 ’ 6 ' JB 38,586 380^565
1907 .. 81,190 35,660 45,530 420->36
.. 92,365 42,766 49,599 510’843
1000 " 50,177 52,458 556,248
l® 1 ® •• 113,578 54,662 58,916 575,291
1911 .. 120,363 56,429 63,934 628,067
But, as before mentioned, only £526,000 of that capi-
tal outlay lS represented by loans; the balance has
been provided out of revenue. It will be noticed also
that the works profit differs a little from the net
profit a few deductions on account of stores written
off, etc., have to be made from the works account
balance. The figures show a steady increase in
revenue, in spite of (or, it may be, on account of)
various concessions made in rates. In 1895 sixpence
per unit was charged for lighting ; in 1911 the maxi-
mum charge is 7d., the minimum 2d. Power, which
cost 3d. m 1902, now costs from 2d. to fd. And as
shown above, if the consumers got the full benefit of
the municipal enterprise, instead of large sums bein<>-
used in relief of rates, it would be possible to still
further reduce the charges.
* * * '*
It looks as though the Melbourne Tram-
way Co. will not be allowed to get to the end of its
concession period, which runs to 1916. A Commis-
sion with Swinburne, of the Gas Co., as chairman,
lias been considering the position, and reports that
the co. hasn’t been doing a fair thing, and isn’t likely
to. It, therefore, recommends the Government to in-
sist upon various concessions in fares—the Govern-
ment has this power—though it thinks it would be
far better for the State to buy the co. out at once
The price would have to be a matter for negotiation,
the position of the co. was last dealt with here on
August 25, 1910, when it was shown that the then
surplus of assets was £1,259,970, made up as fol-
lows :
Liquid assets £1,023,708
Freeholds 248,641
Leaseholds 9 qq.?
Other property ! 156’, 116
Total £1,438,127
Less Debts .. .. £145,310
Dividends due .. 32,847
178,15?
Surplus £1,259,970
But though there was thus less than £1,300,000 of
net assets visible, the investors have been valuing
the whole concern at over £2,000,000, indicating
that they expected this concern to extract from the
public £700,000 by the end of 1916 —with, perhaps,
a little help through the possible under-valuation of
securities.
• • • • • •
~ There is no way, apparently, of arriving at what
the Government would have to pay for the under-
taking. In 1916, the law says, the co. must hand
over the lines in “good working condition’’; but if
the Government resumes the property before 1916, it
must evidently be a matter of ordinary business
negotiation. The co. got its lease in return for
undertaking to pay interest on the capital put into
the business, and to provide a sinking fund sufficient
to wipe out the capital debt by 1916. In other
words, in 1916 the lines were to be handed over free
of all debt. The concern last year panned out as
follows:
Total revenue in excess of working
expenses £292,212
Sinking Fund ‘ .. .. £45,000
Interest 74,250
— 119,250
Co.’s Net Profit £172,962
The shares in the co. are worth (say) 445. = (say)
£2,100,000. The co.’s own assets are worth (say)
£1,300,000, leaving £BOO,OOO to be provided if
the Government were to buy the undertaking at that
price. So the Government would have to provide in-
terest and sinking fund on this extra £BOO,OOO.
The average net profit for three years past, after pay-
ing interest and sinking fund, has been £161,000;
but the accumulated profits of the co. have been
earning some of that—say, £46,000. That would
leave £115,000 available to pay interest and, sink-
ing fund on the new £BOO,OOO of debt; which would
be equal to over 14 p.c. Obviously, then, on the
past three years’ record, the Government could afford
to pay even the present market price of the under-
taking, and still make a handsome concession to the
public. Whether it ought to pay present market
price is another matter; it means three-quarters of a
million for the goodwill of a business with only five
years’ life!
* • * *
Broken Hall and Suburban Gas Co. (N. S.
Wales) v
Written To Re- Re-
April, Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1904.. £2401 6 p.c. = £1694 £707 £5,636
1905.. 2986 6 ~ ~ 1694 1292 6,928
1906.. 3165 6 „ ~ 1694 1471 8,399
1907.. 4542 6 ~ ~ 1694 £2051 797 9,196
1905.. 5014 6 ~ ~ 1694 1248 2072 11,268
1909.. 3792 6 „ „ 1694 106 1992 13,260
1910.. 4154 6| „ „ 1835 745 1574 14,834
1911.. 6682 8* „ „ 2362 1762 2558 17,392
During the past year the co. was more or less recon-
structed. Formerly there were 20,000 paid £1
shares, and 29,925 contributing shares paid to ss. 6d.
The 20,000 paids are now turned into ss. shares; 6d.
per share has been paid back to the other share-
holders, so that there are now 109,925 shares, all
fully paid to ss. The co. carries on business in a
town which is subject to violent bumps, inasmuch as
it depends wholly on mining for metals with an ex-
tremely variable market. Lately, owing to the rapid
development of the zinc business, which is to some
extent consequent on the regulation of the zinc mar-
ket, Broken Hill has been having a very good time;
and if the arrangement among the zinc producers
lasts, it will continue to have a good time for some
years to come. In these circumstances the co. feels
justified in putting up its dividend. On the figures
it is certainly entitled to do it; for even after
writing off liberally to cover depreciation—or what
would be liberally in any other but a mining town—
more is put by to reserves than is distributed in
even the increased dividend. The co.’s financial posi-
tion is easy. Look at it this way;—
Ap., 1904. Ap„ 1910. Ap., 1911.
Liquid assets ... £4402 £10,065 £9245
Liabilities 147 658 940
Surplus ... £4255 £9407 £8305
During the past year the co. has put £2OOO into
office premises. Further, £748 has been paid back
to shareholders, as described above. That transac-
tion, by the way, is not shown clearly in the pub-
lished accounts.
Ihs Southland Building and Investment
Society and Bank ok Deposit (Invercargill, M.L.):—
. Net To Re- Re-
April, Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1899.. £1687 4J p.c. =£2357 £3(j
1900.. 2445 4 ~ ~ 2326 £ll9 155
1901.. 2556 4 „ „ 2244 312 467
1902.. 2680 4J „ „ 2475 205 672
1903.. 2649 4J ~ „ 2429 220 89°
1904 . 2811 5 „ ~ 2637 174 1066
1905.. 2913 5 „ „ 2867 46 1112
1906.. 3483 5 „ „ 3177 306 1418
1907.. 4547 6 „ „ 4277 270 1688
1908.. 4866 6 ~ ~ 4829 37 1725
1909.. 5477 6 ~ ~ 5364 113 1838
1910.. 6151 6 ~ „ 5911 240 2078
1911.. 6688 6 „ „ 6613 75 2153
This society has during the year reduced its in-
terest to borrowers from 6 p.c. to 54 p.c.; still,
owing to the increase in advances, and the absence
of bad debts, the profit is larger. The capital is
provided partly by investing members’ shares and
partly by debentures. This shows the distribution of
the capital, with some other details of the business:
Ad- Properties
Capital. Debentures, vanees. in hand.
1899.. £54,169 414,865 £62,131 £1635
1900 .. 60,770 21,092 74,889 456
1005 .. 60,920 49,722 112,575
1907 .. 76,291 69,820 145,162
1908 .. 86,014 66,858 155,314
1909 .. 95,799 65,076 165,815 510
1910.. 105,571 79,348 183,427 524
1911 .. 117,913 81,062 201,055
The weak feature is that, under the rules, the re-
serves are kept at a mere 1 p.c. of the advances —a
very poor fund to meet any sudden or violent shrink-
age in the value of Southland securities. Apparently
the idea is that, as capital is withdrawable in cer-
tain circumstances, the shareholders are entitled to
the profits as they are made. But the security of
the business ought to be the first consideration; and
it certs' : uly isn’t under this system.
* • * *
The North Coast Co-op. Co. (N.S.W.), the
biggest butler-maker in the Southern Hemisphere :
Dividends
and De- Re-
Loss. Bonus. preciation. serves.
Oct., 1909.. £129 £BO3 £1,350 £4,505
Profit.
Apl., 1910.. 13,382 700 1,000 1 . so „
To Suspense account 11,364 / *>»-•>
Oct., 1910.. 16,966 8806 2,250 10,733
Api.,1911.. 6,240 1,050 15,923
The co. made 4169 tons of butter during the past
half-year, or 425 tons more than in the corresponding
half of the previous year; and it slaughtered 18,618
pigs, pig-raising being a side-line of cow-growing,
the grunts being- stifled in the skim-milk. The co.
got £372,730 for its butter and £47,435 for its
pigs, and, with a few trifles, the total revenue for
the six months came to £421,871. The co. doesn’t,
of course, grow its own butter or pork ; the milk or
cream and the pig are supplied by farmers, who
mostly have a small interest in the concern; there
are no less than 3503 shareholders. The co. has
several factories; and it goes on adding to the num-
ber. If a district wants a factory, and the directors
like the prospects, the local growers are asked to
take up a certain number of shares; that done, the
co. goes ahead. It has in all spent £89,018 on
plant and buildings (the land may be disregarded),
but it has wisely written this total down so hard
that the lot stands now in the books at only £39,877.
Results, so far as profits go, are very irregular. This
is mainly due to the foreign export business, which is
large; sometimes it happens that prices drop
suddenly, and then the co., having overpaid the
farmers, makes a loss on the fat that is on the way
to J. Bull’s market. Hence solid reserves are re-
quired. The co. has done and still does wonderful
things, considering that its paid capital is only
£18,534; and, with continued careful management,
it will do still bigger things; for, of course, the
yam about the Wages Board knocking out the butter
industry is all rubbish. The same thing exactly
was said about the pastoral industry when the
Shearers’ Union began to be a power in the land ;
yet the pastoral industry never was so prosperous as
it is to-day. What the demand for better pay did
was to make the pastoralists put more brains into
their business ; and if the present movement has the
same effect in the butter business, it will be a rat-
tling good thing for all concerned.
Nobody is likely to be much surprised at
the Privy Council deciding that, if the Perth muni-
cipality buys out the Gas Co., it must pay for good-
will as well as for plant. The Gas Go. was the ap-
pellant ; and after its counsel had stated its case and
the municipality had replied, the Court said it didn’t
want to hear the co. again, which was taken as a
hint that the municipality’s cake was dough. It is
the fault of the Parliament which passed the co.’s
Bill; that absurd measure didn’t say specifically
that, at the end of the concession period, when the
right to purchase matured, the people were not to
have to pay for purchasing their own custom. It is
a monstrous thing that such a payment can be in-
sisted upon ; for of course it will mean that now,
even though the municipality owns and runs the
works, it will not be able to supply cheap gas and
power, inasmuch as it will have to pay interest on
from £lOO,OOO to £150,000 represented by nothing
whatever that you can see, smell, taste or handle.
* * * *
Perth is having, or getting ready to have,
its building boom too. Millar’s Karri and Jarrah
Co. is putting something over £50,000 into a block
of offices; the A.M.P. also has a block under con-
sideration, to cost between £30,000 and £40,000.
With various business premises and Government
offices (telephone exchange, Health offices, Titles
office, etc), new buildings and additions running to
oyer £300,000 are in progress or under considera-
tion. Costs are high, and those who build now will
probably have to write off something substantial to
bring the premises down to real value under normal
conditions.
* * * *
Silverton Tramway Co. is again threat-
ened with competition for the highly profitable
Broken Hill trade. Years ago, when the silver-
fields seemed thousands of miles away from Sydney,
the co. got a concession through a probably well-
oiled Parliament; and it has had nearly a quarter-
century of fatness, paying on the average about 150
p.c. p.a. on its actual capital. Three times have
bills been prepared to authorise a competing line,
and once or twice a Government line has been pro-
posed ; but the Silverton Tram Co., though it may
have spent a bit of money, has smiled in the end. The
State has the right to take over the S. T.Co.’s line;
but the Act fixes the price to be paid at 21 times the
average of the previous seven years’ profits. The
past seven years’ profits average about £85,000 a
year; so the total purchase-money would be (say)
£1,785,000 —for about 32 miles of narrow-gauge
line and a few trucks and engines. (The arrange-
ment with the S. Aus. Government is that the co.
provides one-sixth of the rolling-stock required for
the Broken Hill traffic.) To pay that price is un-
thinkable ; yet, when it was proposed in E. W. O’Sul-
livan’s day to build a State line, the official report
was against it on the ground that it would amount
to some sort of a breach of good faith.
The new proposal is that a competing line shall
be built by a private co. But, breach of faith or
not, and competing private line or not, a State line
will have to be built some day. If only as part of
a transcontinental line, the western railway system
from Sydney must be extended to Broken Hill, en
route to the line that is to go from Port
Augusta (or thereabouts) to Westralia. And it is
inconceivable that the 30-mile link between Broken
Hill and the S. A. border shall be left in private
hands. The N.S.W. Railway Department favors the
extension of the existing line westward, and appears
also to favor the Condobolin or Lachlan Valley route.
Its idea seems to be that the line will have to be
some day built for national purposes, and that it


PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (Limited),
Specially constituted by Act ot
Parliament to act as
Trustees, Executors,
Administrators,
Attorneys under
Power, Agents, etc.
Efficient and Economical Management,
Absolute Security.
Trust Funds to lend on Farm
and Station Properties at
from 4 per cent.
Write or call lor Booklet giving full information.
2, 4 (Sb 6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
A. J. MACKENZIE,
Manager.
GREENING’S
SCREENING.
Agate Steel, Phosphor,
Bronze, Brass.
Write for particulars to
FRASER & CHALMERS LTD.,
Equitable Building:, Melbourne;
Macdonald Street, Kalgroorlie;
New Zealand: D. M. DAVIS, Agent, Hall of
Commerce, High Street, Auckland. [2
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire .
Monobcl
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
might, therefore, just as well be hurried on in order
to develop the country. If that were stated plainly
by the Railway Department, there probably wouldn’t
be much enthusiasm about putting up money for a
new private line.
Kyloe (N.S.W.), whose bottom level was
disappointing, is sinking its main shaft another lift,
and in doing so has struck a small leader giving
good assays, and dipping in the direction of the main
lode. A stringer like that may make good at the
junction. The mine is not yielding such rich ore as
it did: the average of 370 tons raised in a recent
week was less than 8 p.c. The last run of the mill
was 385 tons of 5 p.c. ore for 68 tons of concen-
trates, containing about 134 tons copper. Under
better conditions a 20 p.c. concentrate should return
a handsome profit; but Kyloe is 30 miles from a
railway station, and the station is 260 miles from
the coast; and circumstances don’t favor local smelt-
ing. By road and rail it costs approximately £2 a
ton to land the concentrate at the smelter, and that
means £lO per ton of metal. It would take a
better mine than Kyloe not to feel limp under such
a handicap as that.
The Sunny Corner (N.S.W.), which was
practically the forerunner of Broken Hill —its suc-
cess, anyhow, led to the prospecting of the country
for silver —has been lying idle for 13 years. Lately
the Mines Department reckoned that it was a fair
thing to give somebody else a chance. A big bank
had been sitting on the leases; and the institution
took some shifting. Eventually, however, the old
leases were forfeited, and new ones have been issued
in favor of people who promise to get to work
promptly.
* * * *
N.S.W. railways will carry truck-loads of
ore for distances over 80 miles for -Jd. per ton per
mile. Even that, however, means a heavy tax on
ore railed long distances. For instance, Oobar, with
its numerous small copper shows, is 464 miles from
Sydney. Now a reduction is made in mineral freights
generally, so that Great Cobar will get copper
hauled to the coast for 28s. per ton, or 14s. 6id.
less than the old rate. On 6000 tons of metal a
year this means a saving of £4360.
* * * *
Westralia’s gold output still shrinks. The
yield for the six months just ended was 57,2200 z.
less that for the first half of 1910, and 109,6090 z. less
than for the same period in 190 y , and the com-
parison with 1908 shows up worse still. The industry
is in danger of getting its neck stretched unless
something happens to break the fall.
Westralia’s other-than-gold mineral ex-
ports for May realised £15,665. Of this sum copper
accounted for £10,913, tin £3992, silver £409,
silver-lead ore £2BO, and sundries £7l. Up to
date other-than-gold minerals to the value of
£2,781,231 have been exported, two-thirds of which
have been copper and tin.
* * * *
Having decided by ballot against work-
ing with non-unionists, the lvalgoorlie Miners’ Union is
convening a conference of representatives of other
workers engaged in the local mining industry to
further consider the matter. It is unlikely that any
drastic step will be taken towards bringing things
to a head before the expiry of the present industrial
agreement in 1912.
* * * *
During the first year of its existence
Lake View and Star (W.A.) crushed 144,503 tons
for a return of £171,842. Development absorbed
£26,790, and after deducting the cost of mining,
milling and administration, the balance of revenue
lias been applied in writing off preliminary expenses
and reducing the plant and machinery account. Ore
reserves are computed at 403,318 tons, assaying a
shade over 295. per ton; but there is a large quan-
tity of partially-developed ore which has not been
included in this estimate. The consulting engineers
(Messrs. James Bros.), who live in London and draw
a fat fee chiefly for saying something about the co.
and its mines when required, reckon that “from
whatever point of view it is regarded—production,
development, preparation for increased future output,
economical administration, or quick and efficient con-
struction of new plant—the year’s work must be
considered satisfactory.”
* * * *
The farce of regarding the Bull Ant and
East Bullfinch as mines is now realised in London,
and shareholders are asking the Boards what they
are going to do. In the case of the Bull Ant it is
suggested that expenditure be stopped, and a waiting
game played until developments in the adjoining
Bullfinch show whether the property warrants any
further exploration. As regards the East Bullfinch,
an agitation has been started to wind up and give
scripholders what is left. The chances are, however,
that the money in hand will be sunk in some other
venture, and that too often means that in the end
shareholders get nothing.
* * * *
Bowan’s Find has got its eye on the
Transvaal at Morgans (W.A.). This show has
yielded a good deal of gold in its time, but hitherto
the ore has proved expensive to get at and take out
owing to its irregularity and the hard nature of the
country. 8., M. and Co. had it on trial, but gave it
up for this reason. It is hoped that the co. is not
making the mistake this time of relying too much
on the word of the class of expert who gave such a
gaudy report about its late-lamented Bullfinch pro-
perty.
Derwent Jack is dead and buried in the
paupers’ section of the Bullfinch cemetery. Like the
Chaffinch and other fizzles, this show was floated on
telegrams, of which the following are samples: “On
same line as Bullfinch. Gold obtained for about
300 ft. in length. Two shafts, 30ft. and 20ft., both
showing good gold, loz. 19dwt.” Later: “Can re-
commend ; thoroughly good prospects. Shafts 50ft.
apart; lode matter and all indications exactly similar
to Bullfinch ; gold not patchy, but evenly distributed.
Several lodes untouched, one of which prospects well
by dish. Bullfinch crowd pegged all round lease.”
And to make matters worse, carefully-worded ’ little
pars, were inserted in the local papers, and tele-
graphed to the Eastern dailies, congratulating in-
tending shareholders on the fine prospects in store.
* * * *
Last year the tonnage of ore raised and
treated by the Chaffers Co. (W.A.) was double that
of 1909, when treatment was in operation for only
six months; but the recovery was only 295. 3d., as
compared with 365. sd. Since the end of 1909 the
oxidised reserves have shrunk from 15,000 tons,
assaying 325. 6d., to 7300 tons, worth 245. The
stock of sulphide ore has, however, increased from
1000 tons, assaying 305., to 60,000 tons, worth 28s.
per ton. In talking over things at the annual meet-
ing, Chairman Lewis Aarons said that the co. could
not give shareholders dividends out of present profits,
as every penny of the surplus earnings was required
for prospecting and development. The mine would
have to be worked on a bigger scale if any dividends
were to be paid. He supported the managers re-
commendation to risk £3OOO of the co. s remaining
capital in special development, on the on-chance oi
a big increase in ore reserves resulting from the out-
lay ; and he thought thereby the way might be
cleared to dividends by reason of increased gold out-
puts and reduced costs. # #
Payne’s new find (W.A.) turns out to be
a field of ribbon reefs in heavily timbered country.
Some rich crushings are expected from a few of the
claims, but if present indications can be relied on,
there is not much chance of anything big.
The Commodore (W.A.), floated in Ade-
laide 18 months or so back, has had no luck to date.
There is a big lode channel; but a channel with no
ore in it is no more valuable than a pannikin with-
out beer in the middle of Sahara. The shoots so far
found have been too short to pay, and shareholders
will have to be bailed up and milked for calls to
carry the prospecting further.
* * # *
There hasn’t been much left of old Cool-
gardie lately, except the Miner ; and the editor of
that relic was informed the other day that the next
issue would be the last —“until more capital could
be got in.” He promptly took action to save for
himself a little of what remained in; and the Court
said he was right.
* * * *
Hampden-Cloncurry (Q.) reckons its re-
serves in the Duchess mine at 123,300 tons, half of
which is thought to be high-grade stuff, assaying
16 p.c. copper. These reserves are based on measure-
ments above the 400 ft. level; that level was driven
more than 550 ft., but with failing prospects at the
end. The best wedge of ore has been followed
downwards a little below the 400 ft. level; but to get
under it the deepest level, just opened at 550 ft. verti-
cal, will have 260 ft. to go. It should, however,
strike payable ore before it gets that distance. Be-
fore the Hampden Co. can show its best form, it must
have its railway to the Duchess, which is undoubtedly
the big end of the proposition. No one seems to
know when the line will be through, though a few
men have been put on to make a start. Meantime
the prospects of profits from shipments of 35 p.c. to
45 p.c. matte are not too bright.
* * * *
Mt. Elliott, Cloncurry, made £52,000
profit for last quarter. But Elliott’s trouble is that
it can’t take its ore out twice; and smelting has
been suspended to get the mine shipshape again. The
question which is now worrying people who bought
in at the top, with the foolish idea that the sky-
rocket returns were going to continue, is “What
effect is the creep in the mine going to have on ore
reserves?” There are people who remember the
Broken Hill Junction creep. Up to the moment that
happened the co. was pouring out dividends. For a
month or two the management said the fall was
really a Providential accident, as it saved the
trouble and expense of filling in worked-out stopes.
But that was 13 or 14 years ago; and there hasn’t
been a dividend since. Elliott isn’t likely to repeat
that history; but, for all that, you never know what
is going to follow a mine creep.
* * * *
Marshall’s Queen, Charters Towers,
crushed 102 tons from the Brilliant footwall reef for
an average of £3 18s. per ton. The crushing from
the Queen Central shaft was 326 tons, for an average
of £4 ss. 9d. These results are fair, and Marshall’s
is expected shortly to declare a dividend. There are
90,000 shares, so a threepenny costs £1125.
The Lancelot, Herberton (Q.), has been
doing well for a few miners who know tin when they
see it. A tribute was recently let, pending the sale
of the show, and the miners in a few weeks rattled out
some six tons of tin, followed by another three tons.
Something like £9OO got in a couple of months by
four men. It’s said that the unfortunate German
co., which has made such a mess of the mine, has a
dreadful pain as a result. The tribute has expired,
or there might have been more to follow. It is
rumored that the attempt of the co. to sell the con-
cern has not succeeded. The co. has lost £lO,OOO
in 21 years, while the Australian tin miner got not
much short of £lOOO in two months. No one in the
district who understands anything about mining, es-
pecially tin mining, is much surprised.
• • * *
Mungana, an offshoot from the C-hillagoe
(Q.), made a profit of £19,170 on working account
during the 12 months to the end of March; but de-
preciation ( £2049) and incidentals reduced the
amount to £14,712. The surplus of liquid assets at
the end of the year was £17,497, as against £4674
12 months previously. No dividend shows up, how-
ever. Still, after 10 years, the shareholders are used
to that. The total shipments were 25,896 tons, con-
taining 355,7090 z. silver, 1686-J tons copper and
4092 tons lead; but all the metal that was paid for
was 350,0730 z. silver, 15291 tons copper and 18731
tons lead —figures which are worth studying by the
foolish people who think they have something speci-
ally good when their ore contains numerous metals.
Apart from a small quantity of flux, sold straight
out, the Mungana ore was worth 17.36 p.c. lead,
7.44 p.c. copper, and 15.430 z. silver. Approximately
the metals paid for were worth £149,000 ; but all
that was left, after meeting freight and smelters’
charges, was £60,421. That shows where the money
goes. And, though Chillagoe probably made a bit
out of the business, that co. certainly hasn’t got fat
on it, and its shareholders have been as innocent of
dividends as those of Mungana. The future doesn’t
hold out any bright promises. For a while, no
doubt, fair profits will be made. There are two
principal mines, the Girofla and the Lady Jane. The
former seems to be pretty well worked out in the
upper levels; and, though considerable bodies have
been found, mainly by drill, below 510 ft., their value
is poorer than that in the upper levels from which
the co. has not paid any dividends. The other mine,
the Lady Jane, is expensive to handle, partly on
account of the heavy flow of water, partly because
of the rickety condition of some of the workings,
while other workings must remain sealed indefinitely,
owing to an underground fire. The ore is, moreover,
irregular both in occurrence and value. Shareholders
may be sweetened by an occasional dividend in the
future; but, unless the market helps, there is no
ground to expect anything regular. The co. is in
500,000 shares of ss. each.
“Melilla” : The Chillagoe Co. is going to
build a branch railway to Mount Mulligan, in the
Hodgkinson, where the coal is. The chairman said
lately that, 30 years ago, Tenison Woods, the geolo-
gist, told the Hodgkinson folk that coal would be
found there. A fine score that for the geologist;
but what has the Chillagoe Board been doing for the
last 10 years or so? Why didn’t it search for the
coal years back, especially when the Chillagoe line
was being built? Had the coal been opened then the
line could have been taken right through the Hodg-
kinson, and Chillagoe shareholders might have tasted
dividends. The mere suspicion of coal in a locality
should make a smelting co. search high and low.
It’s a bright mark for Tenison Woods —and a black
smudge for Chillagoe directors.
A yellow sapphire weighing 6dwt. was
dug up at Sapphiretown (Q.) the other day—the
largest yellow stone found there for years.
The mostly-Brisbane shindykit which has
had the option over the Blair Athol coal mine (Q.)
has declined to complete the purchase.
The Queensland Commission, consisting
of W. S. Murphy, of Croydon, Dr. Elkington, Com-
missioner of Public Health, and Chief Inspector of
Mines Jackson, which was appointed some months ago
to inquire into the health conditions in northern
mines, has made its report. It found, among other
things, that there is nothing in the “plumbago” of
the Croydon mines likely to cause the miner’s
phthisis that used to be so prevalent there; and in
places where dust did cause trouble, the miners them-
selves were to blame, as they didn’t bother to
apply for jets and sprays even where they could be
had for the mere asking, and were apathetic in the
matter of using respirators. The general health of the
miners was found to be good, though the miner was
more inclined to pulmonary disease than the average
worker, especially in the case of men addicted to
drink. The Commission recommends (1) compul-
sory presentation of a medical certificate, certifying
to freedom from any form of chest disease, before
any person is allowed to work below ground for the
first time; and (2) annual compulsory medical ex-
amination of all underground workers. They are
first-rate recommendations, in view of the facilities
underground for the spread of tubercular disease.
* * * *
Woodlark Island, off the Papuan coast,
is having its second time on earth; and its second
time is better than its first. The last 12 months’
gold output from the little speck was, as near as can
be got, 83240 z., worth £28,487. Kalamadau, owned
largely at Charters Towers, is of course the biggest
producer; but there are others. Six months or so
back a new lode was found, from which George
Slater has been getting crushings like this: 33 tons
for 2270 z.; 30 tons, 2870 z.; 26 tons, l7loz. The
Woodlark King has had some even better results.
Morley’s show, between Slater and the King, was
among the last found; 30 tons from this gave 50oz.
The King and Slater’s are about a mile apart, and
there are numerous shows in between, worth anything
from Joz. to 2oz. Of course expenses are high, in
spite of black labor; but the people mentioned have
evidently made money. Slater has just bought a 20-
head battery and the King has a mill up, and the
owners didn’t set up to be millionaires when they
*
Auckland (M.L.) Stock Exchange has
put its back up, and refuses to quote Talisman (Kar-
angahake) shares. The co.’s management won’t pay
for wires to the Exchange giving mine information
for public use. All other cos. pay for such wires;
and the Brokers’ Union thinks Talisman should, too.
It is likely the management will give way rather
than have another row on its hands.
Another oil co. has been formed in London
to prospect for gushers in Taranaki (M.L.). This
is a syndicate, said to have £lOO,OOO capital,
which takes up the oil options over 7600 acres
in the Inglewood, and 12,000 acres in the Mokau
country, held by a local prospecting association.
Wallaroo and Moonta (S.A.), in develop-
ing a block of high-grade ore in the west lode at
Moonta, ran up against a crosscourse which dips
south; so the ore should increase in length as the
block extends upwards and northwards. This sec-
tion sent away 407 tons of 17 p.c. ore for the fort-
night; the Wallaroo mine, which is proving reserves
of 6 p.c. ore below 2000 ft., sent away 1582 tons of
9 p.c. The metal in these shipments, with 21 tons
of 78 p.c. precipitate, totalled 229 tons copper. The
smelter treated 3040 tons for 247 tons. .These
mines look like producing over 5000 tons copper this
year; and, as there are only 160,000 shares, share-
holders should feel happier than they did when they
read that last year the 4855 tons of metal cost on
the average £54 11s. 2d. per ton.
* * * *
H. Y. L. Brown gives up being S. Aus-
tralia’s Govt, Geologist next November. He first
surveyed the earth at Nova Scotia. In ’65 he got
the billet of field geologist to the Geological Survey
of Victoria, and then knapped rocks in Westralia,
Canada, and N. S. Wales until 1882, when he got
his present job. No man knows more about the
mines of the central State, and nobody is sorrier that
there are not more mines to know.
* * * *
C.W.: No information available.. Frazer
M.: Can’t tell what the tin market is going to be;
but tin men in the Straits Settlements, where most
of the world’s supply comes from, say that there are
very poor prospects of increasing the output from
that part to meet the world’s increasing demand...
T.T.O’C.: There is no regular market for the shares; .
and quotations are erratic. So far no results have
been got on a commercial scale, and the thing is
highly speculative Notsgnol: The registered office
is in London ; Sydney premises, 9 Castlereagh-street.
Shares are neither listed nor quoted.
* * * *
Died last week, at Ballarat, Thomas
Elliott, an old Vic. digger, who made one excursion
to Westralia, and helped to discover the more or less
famous Londonderry—which looked like a mine, but
turned out to be a delusion. However, bigger
fools bought it, so Elliott became a Victorian grazier
by profession and an inveterate traveller by choice.
* * * *
The Commonwealth Government has re-
fused an application by a bird canning co. for the
privilege of shooting wild fowl over the Northern
Territory. The co. meant to export birds, either
canned or frozen—reckoned on 200 land birds daily,
or 22,400 in the season, while the river shooters
were to get 100 daily, or 11,200 in the season. The
co. was also to can turtles and turn dugong into
bacon. Dr. Basedow, Aboriginal Protector, knocked
the scheme out. Even Black Brother, he pointed out,
must eat sometimes.
* * * *
One of the “permanent and reproductive”
undertakings into which Victoria has put a hundred-
weight of Cohen’s money is the Moe-Walhalla
narrow-gauge line; and between its own rickety
condition and the still more rickety condition of
most of the Walhalla mines, this sink for money is
beginning to get on the Railway Department’s nerves.
It was a very expensive line to build. Nevertheless,
when the mines were paying big divs. 20 years ago,
the expenditure might have been justified; but the
Commissioners were not to be caught napping then
—they waited till the mines were nearly exhausted
before doing the work. The scenery along this railway
is undoubtedly beautiful; but scenery thereabouts isn t
a very profitable asset. It was a great engineering
feat to get the line through, and it is going to be a
circus to keep it open. The formation is slate and
loose red loam, and the vibration loosens big slabs
of stone, which fall on the line. Every shower of
rain causes falls of earth. The last rams played
havoc with an embankment four chains long; it
slipped and left the line Bft. in the air. To make
things even, the pug washed down from the face of
a cutting, worked under the sleepers and raised the
line 2ft. 6in. in a night. To keep the line clear a
little party of lengthsmen are constantly moving;
and when one of the frequent slips happens the De-
partment borrows extra men from Walhalla, etc.,
to get a patch put on. Borrowing money to build a
line like this is like trying to get ahead of Cohen-
stein and Co. at a “pony” meeting on a wet Monday.
Walhalla is on the decline, and the line could not
save it now; and the chances are that when Private
Enterprise has finished with the Long Tunnel, the
Railway Department will heave a sigh of relief, and
wind up its eight miles of foolishness and bury it in
the scrap-heap.
* * * *
“Will the undertaking pay?” The economical
transport of ores, fluxes, coal, coke, merchandise, etc.,
in or about mines, factories or warehouses very often
solves the problem. W. & J. Lempriere, of Mel-
bourne, as agents for Bleichert & Co., can give use-
ful information on this subject of transport. The
Bleichert firm has several aerial ropeways working
in Australia, or in course of erection, and will soon
have at work near Sydney one of the largest electric
“telpher” plants in existence.
Every engineer in charge of factories and mills
should give close attention to the power wasted in
transmission of power. The Hyatt Flexible Roller
Bearings save 20 per cent, power and 75 per cent,
of oil, so one of the first duties is naturally for
engineers to direct their special attention to these
bearings and to car boxes for trucks. Hyatts are
in continuous use in Cement Works, Ore Dressing
Mills, Factories, etc., in Australia. Bushings of
flexible rollers may be applied to loose pulleys or
truck wheels, etc. Should engineers require further
details, they can apply to the Australian Agents,
W. & J. Lempriere, Melbourne; or E. W. Hurst-
house and Co., of Wellington, the agents in New
Zealand.*
“FERRODOR” Paint. —Specially manufactured foi
preserving galvanised iron and steel. Unaffected by
sea air, sulphur fumes, cyanogen gases. Used on
Princes and Victoria Bridges, P. and O. and N.D.L.
steamers, etc. Covers 1000 sq. yds. per cwt. WM.
ADAMS & CO., LTD., 175 Clarence Street, Sydney.*
The BELL’S ASBESTOS CO., LTD., London, hav-
ing purchased the works of the ci-devant United
Asbestos Co., is extending its manufacturing opera-
tions. Apart from producing every known appliance
of Asbestos for mechanical engineering and Asbestos
Packed Boiler Mountings and Steam Valves, the
company has erected a plant for the manufacture of
Asbestos Wall Sheets and Roofing Tiles, known as
“Poilite,” being the only factory in Great Britain
making this new fireproof building material. Head
office in Australia, 315 Kent Street, Sydney.*
The Bigelow Patent Rock Breaker commends
itself to mine managers who welcome an effective
machine which is cheaper to maintain and repair
than Gyratory and other crushers. This machine is
of the well-known Blake type, but has some ad-
ditional improvements which have justified in prac-
tice all the claims advanced by the patentee. The
work of crushing is done on the down-stroke of the
pitman instead of the up-stroke; there is no strain
on the pitman cap; two large side rods resist the
thrust of the toggles, and enable the jaws to be
regulated within a large range; the back toggle is
so made as to resist all legitimate strains of crush-
ing, but will shear under exceptional conditions and
save the machine. The shaft and eccentric bearings
are self-lubricating; the jaws are convex and con-
cave, and with the cheek plates are made of steel
and are reversible. The Austral Otis Engineering
Company, of South Melbourne, have installed a great
number of these machines, and hold the sole manu-
facturing rights for the Commonwealth.* [3
FOR SALE Cheap, Second-Hand, 15 Break H.P.
Tangye Gas Engine, in good order. Apply Manager,
Bulletin Office, 214 George Street, Sydney.*
Extract from Assure, Manchester, September,
1910: “The Colonial Mutual —the first colonial office
to open an establishment in the Mother Country—
has always had a reputation for being an enterpris-
ing and progressive institution, and lately has at-
tracted special attention by enlarging the scope of
its operations so as to include Industrial and
Accident business.”*
* * W *
WOOD PIPE connections are easily made. Acids
or minerals in oil or water have no ill effects —it is
very economical. The Australian Wood Pipe Co.,
Ltd., Balmain, Sydney, will send catalogue if asked.*
SIMPITROL AIR GAS —the light that is nearest
daylight and almost as cheap. The Simpitrol Air
Gas System has all the advantages and none of the
disadvantages of other systems. It is simple, abso-
lutely safe, and is the most economical light you can
have, costing one-sixth that of electricity, one-quarter
that of oil, and one-fifth that of acetylene lights. It
is not explosive, and does not entail tedious winding
and regulating of burners. Write for Illustrated
Booklet, Simpitrol Lighting (Australasia), Ltd.,
84-88 William-street, Melbourne. Dept. W.*
* * * *
Mine Managers, Engineers.—Do you want a first-
class Pneumatic Tool, Machine, or an Air Com-
pressor. Ask for the NILES. BOHLER BROS. AND
CO., LTD., 1 Angel Place, Pitt Street, Sydney, and
183 Queen Street, Melbourne, will provide you with
it. Also with Castings, solid and hollow Miners’
Drill Steel, Cast Steel for all purposes, Motor-car
Steels, Tools, etc.*
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting ?
If so, write to Griffith and I-lassel, registered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address, 163 King
Street, Sydney, and 9 Queen Street, Melbourne.* [1
* * * *
An economical proposition in belt conveying of
great interest to mining and mill managers, en-
gineers, etc. “Condor” Brand Registered Black Sur-
face Hardened Conveyor Belting—specially adapted
for the Australian climate —for conveying ore, sand,
metal, wheat, coal, etc. Less than half cost of
rubber belting, giving excellent results, Kalgoorlie,
Broken Hill, and Wallaroo. Write for price lists
and particulars to Sole Manufacturers, Hopkins Bros.
& Odium Prop., Ltd., Leicester Street, Carlton, Mel-
bourne.*
* * * *
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co. Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modern scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne.*
F. DANVERS POWER, mining engineer, is pre-
pared to purchase approved MINING properties. Ad-
dress: National Mutual Chambers, Pitt and Bond
Streets, Sydney.*
* * * *
Nobel s Explosives are the best and most re-
liable. We are agents for the original makers,
Hamburg. Large stocks on hand. Contracts at low
rates. WM. ADAMS & CO., LTD., 175 Clarence
Street, Sydney.*
* * * *
Mine managers when requiring air compressors,
either belt, steam, or electrically driven, should not
fail to inspect the Reavell Air Compressor, when they
will be impressed by its simplicity, compactness and
portability. Owing to the working parts being en-
tirely enclosed it can be placed to work on any part
of the mine, either on the surface or underground.
The number of repeat orders which Messrs. Reavell
have received from the mining community proves
how greatly their compressor is appreciated. The
representatives for Australia are Messrs. Babcock
and Wilcox, Haymarket, Sydney.* [2
* * * *
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign Patents obtained.
Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Melbourne, and
Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write us for In-
ventors’ Guide.*
* * * »
Assayers, Mine Managers, and Projectors
write to H. B. Silberberg and Co., 443 Bourke
Street, Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining
requisites and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc
pulverisers to 200 mesh; hand sample grinders to
120 mesh; Ainsworth’s assay balances sensitive to
1/13000 grain; prospector’s balances to 1/1000
grain ; weight; pocket transits ; gasoline combination
furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles; chemicals; etc.*


I
Esfab
1818
pm°m
fj gjg
Renowned
Trade Mark.
STUHR’S
Finest Table Delicacies
Genuine Caviare.
Anchovies in Brine.
Peeled Shrimps.
Shrimps Extract.
Sold by all High-class Provision Dealers.
C. F. STUHR & CO., Hamburg.
English Export Agent: W.Lovegrove, London,E.C.
R©B«R
Allow me to introdooce myself
“I’m the Ro-bah tea johnnie—
that teapot above my head and
that word in front of me are
both necessary to let people
know who 1 am, and what I’m
he-ah fo-ah.
If you’ve never tasted the
Ro-bah tea you have no idea
a jolly good thing you-ah
missing—Ro-bah is the purest
tea, it is the most wholesome,
it is extrawdinary nice—but, l
say! let me give you one tip
—every time you buy a package
of Ro-bah, look for the date
that’s on it—it’s put there to
show when the tea was packed,
and the fresher it is when you
get it the nic-ah you’ll find it.
The Johnnie.
QUALITY—BUCHANAN WHISKY
“BLACK & WHITE
A
WOMAN'S
LETTER
_ _ _ Sydney, July 10, 1911.
My Deab Arini, —
The wattle will be shedding its gold in
September when the Medical Congress meets
in this city. While doctors differ the
patient has been known to sit up and take
nourishment; and there will be so many doc-
tors in Sydney that no end of patients will
be given tnis chance. Also the B.M.A. and
the Aus. Med. Assn, may bury some of their
discord for quite 10 days.
A ladies’ entertainment committee—Mrs.
Steer Bowker is treasurer, and Mrs. Pockley
president—is putting its mind into the prob-
lem ot giving all the visiting doctors’ wives
a i j i Z^ ln ® time. V'ery often —it occurred in
Adelaide the unknown country doctor’s wife
le ft to her own meditations, and considers
the lilies how they grow in Botanic Gardens,
or the hotel chimneys how they smoke the
sparrows tails, while the wife of the well-
known Knight of the Knife is pursued with
refreshments. The slight is unintentional—
the country lady is only forgotten—but it
cuts deep. Sydney women are already on
the trail of visitors’ names, and a programme
is taking shape. Lieut.-Gov. Cullen lias
offered a garden party, and the N.S.W. Gov-
ernment a harbor excursion. These are
two of the solid joints. The entrees are
likely to run into a column of pript.
Pianist F. S. Kelly’s “Lament” (his own
composition) was booked for Saturday night,
otherwise it might have been appropriate to
his first recital, when a well-scrubbed plat-
form slowly dried up round his piano legs.
Ihe piano—evidently his own, since it fails
to praise its maker in a large printed advt.—
1S a perfect instrument, with a tone of vel-
t-iT thunder and honey sweetness. Pianist
Kelly himself is so quiet in his manner that
he might as well be dead until he touches
the keys. Pie slips across the platform, a
sum figure with a shapely, close-cropped
head, the black thatch so short that there
isn t a hair left over to nod in musical
trenzy on his brow. His square piano stool
wheezed with asthmatic creaks, having prob-
ably caught cold in its joints, from getting
its feet wet on the damp floor.
~,T h, e expert fingers of musician Kelly are
like Melba s voice—always on the right spot,
fie is one of the most delightful persons at
a piano that this city has listened to for
a f He litts the sombre chords
or Bach, and puts them on a short cut to
the susceptibilities of the multitude —if the
multitude hadn’t stayed away and left St.
James _s Hall half empty at the first recital.
A sprinkling of the Well Dressed hugged
their fur-edg’ed cloaks close to bediamonded
bosoms. A little musical salt was sprinkled
over the floor Lemmone absorbed the Kelly
chords with the pleased expression of a man
who s out for harmony; Laurence Godfrey
omitli tossed nis mane in approval.
Brother T. LI. Kelly, who shakes a musical
mger in orchestra; Mrs. T. H., resplendent
in gold slippers, with her gown almost cov-
ered by a gorgeous Japenese silk cloak ; Mrs.
Burdekin and Mrs. Alec Hay, the latter like
f ’ white lily, with a sedge-green band
U ? lts graceful stalk —these were at
this first recital. So also were the Admir-
alty lady and her little daughter. The Ad-
mirable and his ancient ark, the Pah’f’l, were
putting their faith in Providence at that
moment on a wintry sea. The little King-
TT who I s taking lessons (I think from
De Beaupuis) was getting her mind im-
proved by watching the Kelly way with a
classic. She shook her crop of brown hair—
cut after the manner of the Royal Children’s
™ n w he f D u- ey ®. aid pod-bye to Charles I.
on old - fashioned almanacs—in a mild
ecstasy, when the Kelly fingers were full
speed ahead in a study by Liszt.
The Rose Bay Golf Club committee has
«niJ ar /° U | tlmes I ? een much agitated on the
subject of corn-colored hair. There are a
tew lady members who have flaxen locks, but
they ve either grown up here, or can bring
wealthy witnesses to swear that their blood
is cerulean blue, and their yellow thatch
came into the world with them. Any other
lady unless she possesses a motor —had bet-
ter go bald, or dye her own fair hair dark
green or navy blue, before she tries to enter
the camel s eye.
Recent exhibitions of the club’s snobbish
oolery are alleged to include a smack in the
a P *w a , PPty young fellow who is “in
very big wny, and is an
infinitely better citizen than any social para-
f'H ™ ho and plays golf on his debts.
1 he young fellow s young wife, who can give
f n h ?L dl ou f °1 every ten women
in the Golf Club, and then beat them at
their own nonsense—“high” connections, etc
—is a member. How long she will continue
to honor the golf dames with her personal
appearance is likely to depend on circum-
stances. The excruciating point of this al-
Rged impertinence is that a brother, who is
also in trade, _ and his wife are both mem-
bers ot this social elysium.
When Admiral Poore first came to Syd-
ney, Rose Bay was greatly distressed'by
tho application of a well-off commercial
traveller to join. He was severely jumped
on, but remained persistent. In the midst
of the postal altercation, Admiral Poore
walked into the sacred premises. “You’ve
had jour answer,” says the Golf Personage
in his lordliest manner. Poore wasn’t ac-
customed to this kind of snub, and produced
his card. He had been mistaken for the
commercial traveller, and Rose Bay golfers
were more careful for quite three months.
Miss Rose Scott, who wouldn’t strike a
mouse in self-defence, has been spreading
dove-like wings over recent yearnings of the
Peace Society for the abolition of gunpowder
and compulsory military service. Quite
harmless-looking persons are now likely to be
confronted at any moment by a roll of
papers, _ and a firm request to sign their
names in favor of disarming. They may,
if they hesitate, be severely asked whether
they are murderers, or merely Anarchists.
A women’s meeting, which was suddenly at-
tacked by a Peace Society’s petition the
other _ day, surrendered and signed without
shedding a feather in defence. Perhaps
they’d read a remark made by the wife of
Scottish Commissioner Carlaw Martin : “I’d
rather agree than disagree with the Peace
Society, for I went to one of their meetings
in London once, and thought them most bel-
ligerent. If anyone from outside expressed
an adverse opinion, a member of the Peace
Society would hit him on the head with an
umbrella.”
Concerning the new Sydney Club and
Depot for Arts, Jam, and the Home-made
Stitch, a Victorian friend drops in this con-
firmatory note: “The Ladies’ Work Assn,
here in Melbourne has been a losing concern
from a commercial standpoint. For 1910 I
believe its loss was about £2OO, or some-
where in that region—rather more than
less. Nevertheless, if the Admiralty House
peg is strong enough to hold it up, the new
Depot and Domestic Crafts Association here
may pay its gas bills and keep its temper
intact. The_ idea is good, but experience
proves that its foundation—the uncertain
patronage of_ Society and others—is rotten.
This matter is worth hammering at, because
the Woman Who Knows says the thing
can t be done at a commission of 10 per cent,
on sales. _ When the only showroom is an up-
stairs office, the gaps between sales are so
long that the rent alone drags the concern
towards insolvency. And the new depot is
going to try to do business at 5 per cent,
with no more help than it can get from a
mild entrance fee. The “working gentle-
woman” is generally a financial failure, be-
cause she leans too heavily on her “good”
connections, and doesn’t skim her jam. Un-
less the Sydney Club and Depot, which de-
serves _ support, doesn’t comb out its fancy
curls into plain, business-like locks, get a
shop window, and knock the “gentlewoman”
into an early-Victorian cocked-hat, while it
keeps the work and the worker up to the
mark, it is liable to become a benevolent
asylum, with a deficit in its cash-box.
The Valerie Willis wedding, with Oliver
Osborne as the male contracting party, will
have spangled a handsomely trimmed recep-
tion with diamonds before this reaches you.
July 12 is the day, and St. John’s, Darling-
hurst, the place for parson and bell. The
blue-eyed bride’s wedding finery is a deli-
cate array of gossamer muslin and lace, to
be top-dressed by an alluring form of bridal
robe m ivory satin and Brussels lace. Tim
satin shimmer follows the vogue of the
moment; it is so soft and sinuous in its
texture that it almost comes into range with
the old Indian muslin that was pulled
through a wedding ring as a proof of its
subtlety. Four bndesmaidens, plucked from
Sydney s Girl-garden for their good looks
will support the bride in clouds of grey
mnon with a pink sunset effect under the
grey mist. Bridegroom Oliver is one of the
Ben Osborne (Bowral) clan, whose tartan
is mostly wool.
Cattle-man Kidman’s daughter Elma, who
married Sidney Reid, of Adelaide, the other
day, is honeymooning in this State.
Maie Peach Reynolds, who wore her own
heavy crop of fair hair in “The Arcadians,”
mtted back to home and mother in North
Sydney parts by a recently-arrived P. and
O. liner. Her husband, Eric Reynolds, a
Gaptain in an Indian infantry regiment, will
follow later. Some Anglo-Indian wag once
defined the local difference between an in-
fantry officer and a crack cavalry-man: “The
infantry-man does as he’s told; the cavalry-
man does nothing, and calls it polo.”
Surgeon Hughes, of H.M.S. Psyche, who
was supported at the altar by Best-man
Hurd, of the gun-boat Encounter, married
Miss Mary Johnson at Mosman last week.
Mrs. Hughes is a daughter of the late W.
Johnson, of Newcastle, one time proprietor
of a paper there. Mrs. Phipps, another of the
good-looking Johnson sisters, also married
a surgeon who formerly mended naval break-
ages, but now attends to shore-going com-
plaints. The third sister, Miss Nellie John-
son, the bridesmaid of last week, is con-
templating her own orange blossoms. Her
engagement to Dr. Moran has been men-
tioned.
Mrs. James Allison died on Saturday. She
was the eldest of Mrs. Burdekin’s daughters,
and had been ailing practically ever since
her return from England last year.
George Reid’s mother-in-law died lately;
but the news wasn’t rushed through to Lon-
don by cable, so during the Coronation fes-
tivities Australia’s High Commissioner was
able to go on blissfully dining to save his
country.
The Women’s Patriotic Club, which cut it-
self in two a little while ago, left its political
tail in its old haunt in Bull’s Chambers, and
took the rest of itself to No. 15, Bligh-street
‘ Absolutely no politics,” said the polite damsei
who let me have a look-in at the handsome
new club-house. There are now two Wo-
men’s Patriotic Clubs. The Bligh-street
place, with Sec. Mrs. Cecil Youl to keep it
smiling, has been taken up by a limited com-
pany. It shows every sign of keeping its
head above water for a prosperous and in-
definite period.
Miss Margaret Harris gave the club its
drawing-room furniture. It’s a long room
with alluring tones of art-green and pastel
blues. When it settles down into a place
that attracts the smaller feminine luxuries
—gay cushions, bowls of flowers—this sit-
tinsr-room will be a nest of comfort. Offi-
cially, the new club is unopened, except to
the butcher and baker, for its upper rooms
are still unfurnished.
Muswellbrook, having achieved the right
to have and hold for 12 months the Dudley
Polo Cup, is now getting its breath. When
her recent-Ex. and the Duchess were travel-
ling round after the polo balls in that dis-
trict, station homesteads that were laid on
to telephones were frequently flung into a
mild state of kitchen-tremens by the message
that Lady Dudley and the Duchess would
arrive for lunch, or tea, or whatever meal
happened to be most convenient to the visi-
tors. An up-country household, even in
squatting circles, isn’t always panting to en-
tertain at an hour’s notice a Gov.-Gen.’s
wife, with a Duchess thrown in as a high-
class critic. Corned beef and cold mutton
can perform prodigies in French names, but
they must have time to change their appear-
ance.
Returning to the supper party at the
Australia, given by the Polo Whites to top-
off the Kensington tournament, slim silhou-
ettes in velvet shake their heads. The
Country, when it comes to Town, feasts its
friends on such solid material that the 19in.
waist has to turn back to toast crust as an
antidote to the flesh-forming diet of a fort-
night’s polo banquets. “It was half-past 11
when supper, really an elaborate dinner,
with soup, etc., began, and when we left, at
half-past 1 in the morning, they’d only
reached the speech-making stage.” Thus
mused a slender polo damsel over a non-
fattening cup of tea. “Fat,” I may mention
in passing, is this season’s nightmare. The
stylish young person of to-day still struggles
to represent the skeleton at the feast.
The Australian Woman and her Maoriland
sister in London have recently shown signs
of pulling Mr. Asquith’s front locks if he
doesn’t let them use the votes they are en-
titled to at home. Lady Brassey gave a cup
of tea and a drawing-room meeting to help
this Overseas female vote movement. Mr
Asquith, since the last mail left London, has
been in one of the tight corners of his un-
easy billet. He had to face an Australasian
deputation, which was armed to the teeth
with the franchise, and demanded, as wander-
ing British subjects, the right to use its
own property.
As the Jap training ship, Taisei Maru, is
now lying in Victorian waters, it seems the
right time to recall the first Jingo who made
a stir in the East. A woman, of course.
The Empress Jingo, who happened in
Japan when Anno Domini was attaining
its second century, was a warrior whose
career bears out Olive Schreiner’s conten-
tion that the belligerent “New Woman” is
verv oid. Empress Jingo took a hand in
the first Jap fisticuffs with Corea, and com-
manded a maritime force of row-boats or
other primitive galleys which poked their
p f°r W I s ,- mto earl y Corean affairs to the thud
ot falling heads.
The Cold Land press is full of entrees.
-t aper bags now flaunt side by side with
stars, silk stockings, crowns, and gold sticks
in waiting. Artist Mildred Lovett, who
took bid Long’s place in the Sydney Society
ot Artists, knows more things than china-
painting. She is an expert in souffles, and
reams of paper bags are likely to wend their
way to a cosy flat amongst the stars and
chimney-pots, where two girl artists think
they ve solved the hardest problem in city
life—board and residence. The era of paper-
bag cookery is a dispensation of Providence
to the girl who has to wash-up.
Artist Florence Rodway, who sits down
sometimes —in committee meetings—has no-
thing new to say about the Soc. of Women
Painters, which means to show its wares in
October. Art in petticoats has to shoulder
the same load as Art in breeches, when it
chases house-room for an exhibition. If it
is outside the Government subsidy it hasn't
even an attic it can call its own ; and the
struggle to find one at all suitable threatens
to reduce the brush lady to a hank of hair
and a skeleton form lying at the foot of 14
flights of stairs.
Photos of the historic Australian tableaux,
arranged by artists from this side who are
now in the Cold Land, give the impression
of fine posing. “The Landing of the Brit-
isll seems rather stiff, but “The Completion
of Federation” was an imposing tableau, the
carefully-grouped figures standing out boldly
against a wide expanse of water with a
rocky bluff in the background. British
Australasian enthuses on the success of
the affair, which occurred at the Imperial
Institute. Fred Leist and Will Dyson
were boundary-riders who discovered a rich
nugget in the wilds of the Institute; and
Tom Roberts is accused of hitching on the
reception-to-Australians idea.
When “Excellency” reaches the ordinary
hurried person, it is generally boiled down
to the bone. Smith was standing near the
lift when her lately-departed Ex. was sit-
ting for the presentation portrait. Being a
careful reader of Sydney Social reports, he
was staggered to hear the unvarnished per-
sonal pronoun. A Government House foot-
man or other bored plenipotentiary arrived
at the lift. Said he: “Ask her how long
she’s going to be?” The lift-boy nodded,
and hauled himself upstairs. He made an
unagitated descent from the Longstaff studio.
She says you needn’t wait!”
The Garters, Orders of the Bath, C.M.G’s
and other baubles that are hitting plain
citizens just now, recall the queer comment
of the letter-writing Lord Chesterfield to a
contemporary Garter or Heraldic sign-
painter : “You foolish man, you don’t even
understand your own foolish business!”
The Prince of Monaco’s interest in the
Mawson excursion to the great Antarctic
r reeze links Australian enterprise with one
of _ Europe’s oldest seafaring families, the
Grimaldis, who reign over the principality
Ranges, olives, lemons and rouge et noir
at Monaco. In a venerable Cornhill, with
l»t»4 branded on its battered back, there is
a curious account of the early days of Monte
Carlo: —
Every morning, Sundays not excepted, a small
port of Nice, and roundlnJ the 7 l pa httJ lng ° Ut of the
franche. Her h^hth °use of Ville-
hampers of provisions 8 anri U +n- C °S. slsts of a few
people in the highest spirits t ™^rJ? ily ' dressed
the Palmaria, thl propertv Af J hat 11 ll , ttle vessel is
triel named Prancois P Rlane f .f„,i We \' knoi i'' n indus-
for the principality of Momnn s i e * s tiound
ing owner has fonnrWi o na< ?°’ Y- here her enterpris-
Pirafls ?fSS iS com S ueti’
? ,=>ope “ 3
Sa X e-ae an |?l„S ln t^S
J3&
*i\£b
over a patch of stony olive ground and
Hi^ e armv Ch f S< l9 eeZe - d oranges and lemons.
His army of 12 privates, two non-coms, and
a drummer, like his princely fortune was
heaving its last gasp in 1859, when the En-
terprising person named Blanc made a bar-
fr-th him, and built a colossal fortune
tor both on rouge et noir. The present
Irince of Monaco’s scientific concern in
deep-sea dredging is a 20th century throb of
whon ll^ G p n T ldi pulse ’ which heat faster
it met stray merchandise knocking
about the high seas.
About 20 miles from Thursday Island
there s a small slice of tropic Paradise in an
island of considerable beauty and many
cocoanuts. A man at Thursday Island,
who had been out there recently in a pearl-
ing lugger, sends a hurried line to say he
has found a Human who is absolutely
money-proof. He s an old Samoan native
who owns (or leases) the island. He has
Slnrwv? ] vith Stoic contempt an offer of
±do,ooo for his cocoanut patch, for the
primitive reason that he’s quite happy. The
Simple. Life, fanned by trade winds, and
ted with turtle steak, seems to possess
points worth inquiring into. “Going on the
cocoanuts might form an idyllic counter-
blast to going on the land.”
, J wia £fv’ Sousa’s Band is marching
through. Wagner’s “Gotterdammering”
/which isn t as wicked as it looks in print),
William Tell,” and other popular music, in
£ e n T Sf n Hal L‘ “ Has Aa ybody Here Seen
iveliy { one of Sousa’s stock encores, may
now excite some Beethoven fanatic to hit
back with “He’s in St. James’s Hall!”
Yours, with a broad nib,
VANDORIAN.


lV;
H ' *
•ft
Eft
va®*
•:~"/
K w
%
RS
%
Pi
i V s K
mk
vrtf
yy.
r-
MifMM u
mmm f
W.
■7f«
n
v/jjfflgp&m
<r\J+.
is>
r>
7
mM.
W&mllmm
Mgm- :
w.
iips
§i
v
I ®P«§gl w *
SS
iS^g
l;#sj
V,
8
r
sg
.2\ :
WT
jagg
,5001 goiiswra
- W»©w
#®l
V
:•«• v*
jr 3njjsp JuJjj- *._. A : *
A ’At
F*A
N
\I
m; : mm
K?
mn
0S&
smifctMe
W&wMsM
&t m&PrQßm*!
Pr /
r /
; »»
Hill
iff
\| 1 f, 4
||f
pM
; ?■
i’s
i/5
r
ikT
/ £
//
|?kl;
/k
sms
■-^1
\
:
|||l|||f
•% h
/kr^
:F
I:.. # -/
&■' //
.....
St & MBs Zafoim assßfflffi^SKSSaffiSHwffS
;#»
1 5 ag
$W«j»
§j||
r^** ll vfL-kvj?; ''•••V;.- •* ‘ *
i»iiSi^^fe
&?•• .y - *'- sfeSh - * #£?»
n %xx
te: WtiMifl
% |g p , Ji VM
, m ng
NXH’Sx
;y • fejL ..r >«.„
K*»
«S
»■?
.?i-
-,, 'I
ww*. -wa
P
s.‘*<V., ...«fld^a^_JsSSs#s».^^aS&s
v>.^ t ;
g^ggt
jijy
®5«
K\-
W '*s&>&■
-yA'
ts< W----•
SSJM
i?'5 v " n
a*W:- ,
Uyip
COBRA, Sfte Boot PolisK.
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Had his Coron-
Ation too.
No one could
His claim demolish
To the title,
“ King of Polish.”
Chunder, when the
Primate crowned him,
Whispered to the
People round him:
All the best
Archbishops use
“COBRA” polish
On their shoes.”


D
LOP
g
m
Ensure
Satisfaction.
DUNLOP
RUBBER CO.
Melbourne. Sydney
Adelaide. Perth.
Brisbane and
Christchurch, N.JL
Mining
Goods
I ,are now used on all
the leading Mines on
account of their
i Quality,Wear&Price
OUR Suction
| Hoses, Rubber and
Balata Belting:,
Packings and In-
sertions, Valve and
Sheet Rubber, etc.,
I have no equal.
That’s why we are
now doing over 70%
of the Mining Rub-
ber Goods Trade
| of Australasia.
Tcaaeri and Sample, Sabaiittea.
The
pleasure
of
Cycling
depends
on the
Tyres
used.
'4(\
7
ft!\
' >!
If you order
DUNLOP
TYRES
you make a certainty
of riding the Best that
money can produce, for
these Tyres are Easily
the most Reliable and
Durable obtainable.
Accept no cheap substitutes.
Protect yourself by
seeing that Tyres bear
this Trade Mark wtr
ALL AGENTS.
jfjg
DUNLOP RUBBER CO., All State, and N.Z.
HAYWARD’S
Costumes 8 Riding Habits
are Known All Over Australia.
WRITE OR CALL FOR
CATALOGUE OF NEW FASHIONS.
323 George Street, Sydney a**
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, July 10, 1911.
My Dear Yarrie, —
Flemington had a dull day for the Grand
National Steeplechase. A tawny fog hung
low over Melbourne, and worried the poor
things who were trying to make up their
minds what to wear. One woman, who
had as escort a towering bachelor squatter,
tottered about the lawn in an immense
motor-coat. The skirt below it was skimpy
and terminated at the ankles, while the shoes
were pale suede. She was the boat with
too much top-hamper. Mrs. Donald McKin-
non, in a smart, flat hat and blue tailorings,
walked proudly with brother-artist Bunny
and his little French wife, who wore an
ermine stole round her shoulders at a Paris-
ian tilt. Mrs. Everard Browne, who has
been rusticating lately, turned up clothed
in a big handsome way in blue cloth and
sables, with a bright paddy-green • crown to
her hat. Mrs. Albert Miller was in a quan-
tity of fluffy furs, and a hat tilted up fore
and aft. Mrs. Chairman Casey wore rows
and rows of gun-metal buttons on her navy
serge. Mrs. Brodribb gave the tea of the
afternoon —though there were several cosy
ones among the motor cushions. Mrs.
Fisken walked down the steps at the tea-
interval in an enviable sealskin coat of the
latest cut. The largest weeping plume yet
seen in these parts adorned her hat. It was
black and blue-tipped, and resembled the one
worn by the Linlithgow Lifeguardsman on
Coronation Day.
Mrs. Fitzgerald wandered daughterless, as
her two pretty girls are married and trip-
ping in foreign parts. Amy Castles was a
blooming presence in a sealskin coat. Mrs.
Architect Pitt brought a newly-blossomed
daughter. Florence Vie, clad in black,
promenaded with Picture J. D. Williams,
who was crowned in tasteful blue. Essie
Perrin Kcrouse had a touch of cerise
atop, and wore a coat to which many squir-
rels had contributed. Mrs. Lorimer and
her daughter were completely covered in bear
furnishings. The bear is having almost as
bad a time this year as the squirrel; but,
being so large, he seems to stand less in need
of sympathy. Mrs. Salon Sadlier was well
muffled in sables. (The smaller animals
again !) Mrs. Beauchamp brought along
daughter Mrs. Charlie in dove grey and—
more squirrels!
Let us get out of the slaughter-house for
one paragraph, if we can!
The Fuller lady, who is constantly show-
ing new phases of prettiness, ventured out
again in a Punchinello species of hat, with a
mauve-colored peak and a turned-up blue
brim. She had smart blue and mauve extras
about her dress, which was partly obscured
by some beautiful (Nearly!) The Gov.
turned up his trousers above his spats in a
business-like way, and tramped the lawn and
paddock. Miss Phipps had her usual con-
tingent of aides, and several times got among
the shouting bookmakers. The special train
has apparently become a fixture. The early
birds now expect to find it waiting for the
homing vice-regals ; and they are not disap-
pointed.
It is hard to understand why the cere-
monious opening of the House, Federal or
State, is so attractive to women. To get
in they have to endure a long, dreary wait,
during which they are forced to be quiet—
and that, of course, is outrageous to begin
with. Then they are herded like sheep, and
have no chance of spreading their plumage.
Nevertheless, they go by the hundred. On
Wednesday, at the wrenching-open of the
State Parliament, they rushed the gal-
leries, trod on one another’s expen-
sive garments, and jabbed feather tips and
hatpins into neighboring eyes. The flock
was shepherded by a number of austere offi-
cials, who commanded it frequently to stop
chattering. After waiting for a distressing
hour or so, the arrival of Gov. Fuller and
his clanking, gold-laced escort created not
more than a ripple of interest.
The ceremony was succeeded by a
tea-and-cake stampede. Mrs. J. M. Davies
“received” in the corridor at the entrance
to the fooderies. The necessary pumphand-
ling ceremony scarcely served to check the
turbulent crowd. They “shook” in a
hurried, perfunctory way, and streamed to
the refreshments. When everyone was busy
with food and drink, Mrs. Davies, who was
in black with a plume in her bonnet, took
Lady Fuller into a cosy extra room. Her
Ex., who looked pale, wore an amethyst
velvet gown. Auntie Phipps convoyed the
usual nursery trio, whose mushroom hats
were twined strings of cherry-plums. Cap-
tain Awdry, their usual guide, on this oc-
casion contributed an imposing kilt to his
Ex.’s escort.
Out in the lobby, the Government did a
little advertising with an interesting exhibit
composed of the products of the Maffra beet-
sugar works. The industry is looking up again
after a long and awful slump. At one
time Allan McLean, “Maa-fra,” and sugar
beet were grouped together in the public
index. The ex-Premier, who is a very sick
man these days, was not among the admir-
ing throng; but he would, no doubt, hear
about it and remark, “Weel, weel,” in the
tone of a vindicated prophet.
Major J. A. C. Quilter, of the Grenadier
Guards, is due to arrive in Melbourne on the
17th, as advance aide to the new G.-G. He
and Chamberlain Victor Hood will have their
hands full until the 31st preparing the path
of roses for the feet of the Denmans. Pleas-
ant accounts of the new pair are arriving
from people on the other side; so we may
hope for the best.
Victor Hood (he has secretaried the last
three Victorian Governors) severs his con-
nection with the State establishment this
week, having got a license to pilot G.-G.’s
through the social shallows. If he con-
tinues he may follow the invincible Walling-
ton, who from aide became secretary, and
from secretary mounted the pedestal of
Chamberlain, climbing thence to a position
in the Royal Court. He is now secretary
to Mary, and can scarcely hope for further
promotion, unless he is appointed Chief
Scribe, of the Gate to Peter, to whom he
will certainly whisper “Better not!” if cer-
tain Melbourne people ever present their
cards. .
At their ball the Art Students strove after
new effects, and the results as a rule were
worth while. Half-way through the frivol
there was a clash of cymbals, the lights
dropped to twilight, and a procession
about a thousand years old drifted
weirdly round the room and over the stage.
It was understood to be a string of Persian
travellers tracking through the desert. Two
camels—realistic animals fashioned by the
Students, and supported by obviously human
legs—were included in the caravan. Two
small McCubbin boys, “Inky” and “Mop,”
in appropriate garments, led the amiable
brutes through the trackless waste. On-
lookers who had waded through the hot
sands remarked on the absolute accuracy of
the camel-chauffeurs’ scarlet-and-dirty white
costumes.
The organisers of the show should be of-
fered tall salaries to take on the jobs of
theatrical producers, for they got their fine
effects with any old thing they found handy.
The priceless tapestry was the den table-
cloth ; the Persian rugs were painted can-
vas; the.antique sword was more often than
not a paper knife; the ancient lamps were
made of yesterday’s cardboard. The ball-
room was heavily disguised with fine-pat-
terned rugs, which had all been worked by
artists —but not on looms. After the pro-
cession had passed two-steps, waltzes and
lager helped to pass the hours. Imposing
personages like Bernard Hall, Archibald
Strong, and visiting artist Bunny watched
the revels to an early hour, when motors
and cabs carried away the wealthy section
of the artistic crowd ; but the majority went
home happily afoot and in frivolous guise in
the dawn.
Ethel Irving and husband Porteous, with
Clive Meynell and leading-man Ewart, had
a jolly supper-party after Saturday night’s
show. Gaud Mayor Davey and his Mayor-
ess were there; also Dorothy Vane Menzies,
in a soft white dress. Mrs. Broad, who is
one of the Best daughters, wore a cunning
blue and paddy-green cape. Nellie Veitch
wore turquoises on her white dress. Major
Patterson and his wife, with Mrs. McAdam,
were also round the damask-hidden board.
Hugh and Mrs. Buckler drank a parting
glass of wine with the newcomers. Pursey
Chirnside, Mrs. Pursey and sister Miss Fen-
ner clinked in. Pianist Leonard Borwick
and Miss Pudney, the fair amazon who trav-
elled with Calv 6, were also amongst those
present. The lady, who is staying with Mrs.
General Williams, looked like a large-sized
peach in white and pink.
Ethel Irving was almost lost in a coat of
fur, with sable collar and cuffs —a truly
lovely garment. She tried to keep track of
the many graceful speeches made to her, but
could not quite accomplish it. Gaud Mayor
Davey spoke of the time when he appeared
in grand opera before the present King. He
was at the time a youth in McArthur’s ware-
house in the Lane, and he and some of his
brothers-in-fluff struggled through a couple
of hours of song at the old Royal, while the
young Prince listened in a box.
Last Wednesday a big, silent crowd
watched a gun-carriage with its burthen roll
slowly, northward through the city from the
Victoria. Barracks. Colonel Tom Price was
a favorite with the crowd, and Melbourne
stopped and mourned awhile when the mili-
tary funeral passed through. He belonged
to the most select woolly classes of the
Western District, but he was too keerf a
soldier to let that hamper him on active ser-
vice. When he took his contingent of
swashbucklers to Boerland, the mothers of
various gilded youths insisted that the
boys should go with Colonel Price,
as he would know their social “rank,”
and treat them accordingly. But it
turned out that the Colonel didn’t in-
clude a “Who’s Who” amongst his field
kit. As soon as the transport left, and
the slackness of the best families’ representa-
tives became apparent, the ship was filled
with short, sharp language that made the
half-baked soldiers jump; and before it eased
down several warriors had been shocked
into their proper places and made useful
members of the expedition. Roberts thought
much of the man who refused to temper the
blast of war to the pure merino. He gave
him a lot of hard work to do, and presented
him with a sword, that he might never lack
the means to slaughter and sudden death.
Australia has lost its lively old musical
friend, Benno Scherek, for good and all.
Benno departed to London a while ago with
a suitable billet in view, and last week his
wife and family went to join him. It was
from Maoriland that Benno Scherek came to
this country 20-odd years ago. Amy Sherwin,
after a concert tour of Australasia, engaged
him to descend on Melbourne as conductor
of her opera orchestra; but the opera season
was short-lived, and the clever little man
thenceforth figured mostly as a pianist and
teacher, and there was a time when he organ-
ised a Scherek Orchestra for concert pur-
poses. A most sympathetic accompanist to
singers when he chose to be careful, Benno
was a man of moods, who didn’t always take
himself or the singer quite seriously. A wind-
fall of money was said to have happened
to him three or four years back, and he went
to Europe. There he booked Carreno to
make another trip to Australia, and incident-
ally paved his way to the appointment which
has taken him back to London.
A Coronator, cooeeing out of the Fog.
mentions that Rupert Clarke’s dazzler was
one of the sensations of the Derby. Her
motor was nearly all glass, and more like
Cinderella’s coach in the pantomime than
anything else that consumed petrol. In-
side the show-case the lady appeared clad
in purple velvet and wearing a. huge hat with
a fortune in purple ospreys waving trium-
phantly.
. Commerce nowadays owes a bit to Art for
its advts., and Art is returning the obliga-
tion. In Britain a series of gloriously un-
profitable ventures in grand opera have been
conducted by Beecham, of the pills. The
financial power behind the touring Sheffield
Choir is Dr. Charles Harriss, who is closely
related to Cadbury’s Cocoa. A clever
pianist—Miss Katherine Goodson—who vis-
ited Australia a year or two ago, was under-
stood to be travelling on the strength of
somebody’s mustard. And the brilliant Bor-
wick, who plays to please himself as well as
the public, is a musician with private means
that originated in a baking powder.
The Dr. Power family, formerly of St.
Ivilda, will shortly have an interesting re-
union under the paternal roof at Drouin
Daughter Mollie (Mrs. Walker), who mar-
ried an Indian Army man, is coming home,
from Bombay or thereabouts, with her baby;
brother Jack is coming on leave from his
regiment in India; and sister Nellie, the
dashing horsewoman, who has been seeing
some stage-life in London, will complete the
conference of the Powers.
Professor Fred Beard and his Women
Students’ Choir have begun a series of
drawing-room concerts. They are inyita-
tion affairs, under swaggah patronage, and
are intended ( Attention , please!) “to give
an opportunity to aspiring students to gain
experience in presenting the more serious
examples of vocal art before an audience.”
The John Madden lady presides over the
scheme, so it should have an easy scale to
sing. Last Wednesday evening the first
concert of the series happened in the draw-
ing-room of the Grand Hotel, which was
cosily fire-warmed and decorated with flowers
for the occasion. Lady Fuller was too ill
to put in an appearance; but the room was
full of Sassiety’s brightest incandescents, in
their nicest frocks. Beard spoke some valu-
able and instructive words about the tuneful
Art. One remark sticks in my memory:
“There are many ‘schools’ of singing, but
only one way of singing all the world over—
that is. natural, sustained speech.” Pro-
' fessor Adam, of the Uni., also handed out
some pertinent observations in praise of
clear enunciation and expression.
From an uncrowned head at the Corona-
tion :
At the unveiling of the Queen Victoria memorial,
Mrs. John Forrest and Emperor John were prominent
figures. The lady flourished a wonderful head-pieco,
on which nodded four sky-blue plumes. But, at the
same open-air crush the Maoriland Ward lady went
one better even than that in the way of towering
plumage.
Those two grey-head pals—Reggie Bright and
Miss Millie Carter —generally gravitate towards each
other at the London-Australian crushes. To see
Reggie step out among the promenaders in Hyde
Park is a rare treat in old-beaudom.
The “Plevna” Ryans have reached the metropolis,
the doctor wearing his placid Turkish smile and she
with her energy at full Coronation pressure. The
youthful daughter, Maie, is frisking about with little
Winnie Tait, the chic daughter of the Canadian ex-
Railway Commissioner. He himself bulges fuller
and more crimson, and basks with his missus in the
glamor of his brand-new knighthood.
Sydney’s cynical beau, Owen Cox, with his girleen
and niece Gladys Bonsor, are at the Hotel Cecil, for
the crowning.
Lord Northcote, the little ex-G.-G., is only a
shadow of his old stolid self. A long illness has re-
duced him sadly.
“Hobble skirts are banned at the Court
of Mary,” writes a Melbourne girl from the
Big Smoke; “therefore‘any woman who is
anybody, or wants to appear as being on the
Court list, is letting her limbs go free. The
Royal objection to the ‘hobble’ was that no
substantially-built subject could achieve a
sweeping obeisance in it. In short, she
couldn’t curtsey worth a cent, and a Court
without curtseys was unthinkable.”
Australia’s Army of Infants has suffered
its. first defeat. A squad of 50 cadets was
being drilled at Yarraville, when the peace-
ful drill-ground suddenly became the scene
of dreadful battle. The ground was invaded
by an enemy three or four strong, who
opened the assault with a heavy fire of
crackers. Then, noticing that the cadets were
divided into sub-squads, each commanded
by a youthful non-com., the enemy changed
its tactics, and . incited the infantry to
mutiny. This failing, the invaders poured
in a brisk fire of mud and metal, and soon
Australia’s army was retreating for the
drill shed. The enemy opened fire on the
fort; but Constable Muldoon arrived, and
the hostile force was scattered. Casualties:
Nil. No Victoria Crosses awarded.
My Adelaide correspondent writes: —
Acting-Mayor Lav. Bonython has done so well
during the five months’ absence of Mayor Cohen
(who went to London to beg for a gaud mayoralty
for Adelaide), that he is now being asked to take
on the job permanently. Cohen did not even get a
C.M.G. or a Coronation medal as the result of his
quest, for which he was voted an extra £250 by the
council. Indeed, he has only twice had his name
mentioned among the long cabled lists of feeders.
Adelaide Parliamentary reporters feel bad because
politicians have cut them off from the privilege of
access to a balcony, on which between “turns” they
have sat to smoke, yarn, or have afternoon “tea”
for over 20 years. Merhbers wished to keep their
new billiard-room private, and the balcony opens
from that. If ever Hansard scribes now desire to
take the air, they must go out on the front steps
or the street pavement, for there is no other place
available.
It was wildly rumored in England, a while ago,
that beards were to “come in” by way of compliment
to Queen Mary’s husband. Here, on the contrary,
there has been quite a craze among Assembly men
for clean shaves. Ritchie, Ryan, Green and Hegga-
ton have all scraped off their facial hair within the
last few weeks.
A Peace Association was born at the May Club the
other day. The advocates of taking it lying down
wore olive branches, and pledged themselves to do
away, with strife in all forms. Meanwhile the cable
mentions that Japan has laid down four new Dread-
noughts.
Mrs. Jule Wendt gave a reception at the Grand
Central on Tuesday. The popular Queen Adelaide
Club did likewise, Mrs. Backhouse acting as hostess.
The only drawback to the club is that the premises
aren’t growing with the membership, so that a con-
cern, which some cautious Adelaidians regarded
originally with a dubious eye, now finds itself often
short of elbow-room.
Miss Gertrude Mack—who is being introduced
variously as “Mrs. Harrison’s sister” and “Louise
Mack’s sister”—is among us. Mrs. Harrison paid
Adelaide a flying visit in October last, and found
time to establish herself securely in the affections of
those who met her. The Macks are old S. Austra-
lians, the father of the bright family having in the
long ago been among our innumerable Methodist
reverends.
On Tuesday the Misses Boothby, who have success-
fully run the May Club for a number of years, in-
vited their friends to a species of house-warming at
their new rooms in Gresham-street. The little club
will benefit vastly by the change; not only is the ap-
proach to the new premises better, but there is more
space, and the whole affair is fresh from the hands
of painter and builder.
Port Noarlunga (a quiet spot on the coast, beloved
of artists) is bemoaning the loss of one of its
chiefest attractions—an oddly-balanced mass of stone,
known as Table Rock. Old age and a passing storm
had their why, and the ancient landmark is now a
mere jumble of boulders.
The ’Varsity students are rejoicing over a new
boat, which was duly christened by Mrs. Darnley
Naylor on Saturday. Mrs. Naylor and Mrs. Gavin
Gardner provided tea in the boat-shed afterwards.
Headings from the agricultural column of an Ade-
laide daily:—
“The Man on the Land.”
“Egg-laying Competition.”
We always knew we led the van in agricultural pro-
gress ; but —! !
The social and business worlds alike were shocked
by the death of genial Theodore Bruce last week.
He was one of the most popular mayors this village
has known. His younger daughter, Muriel, is now
in England, and Mr. Bruce himself was contemplat-
ing a trip to those parts.
There seems every chance that we will soon add
a woman to our list of city lawyers. Miss Egerton
Jones (who is only just legally “grown up”) is well
on her way through the law course, as ordained by
the ’Varsity, and practically the only obstacle to her
appearance in a wig and gown in Court is a musty
convention that debars women from practising. As
we have women doctors and a woman dentist, a Bill
will probably be shortly rushed through Parliament
to clear the way for women advocates.
Another Adelaide girl who is bringing us reflected
glory is Miss G. R. Edwards. After she had won
various degrees and diplomas in music, S’Africa
lately offered her a three years’ Conservatorium en-
gagement, but she refused it, and is returning to
Adelaide instead.
The annual meetiitg of the Royal Geographical
Society was noted for the absence of two important
members. His State Ex. had a prosaic cold, which
kept him prisoner, and the society’s veteran secre-
tary, Mr. T. S. Reed, was also “not present.” The
Governor is billed to lecture for the society on Tues-
day, giving some facts anent ships and navies, and
hopes still to keep to his engagement. Secretary
T. S. Reed is a living wonder, and trots off for jaunts
to Tasmania and I lioriland cheerily and alone, de-
spite the fact that he is past the eightieth mile-stone.
Sincerely yours,
JOHANNA.


111 IV
IN the selection of a whole-
some whisky, no method
is more simple, and certainly
none safer, than to specify
DEWAR’S. Its wholesomeness
is as its flavour, its flavour as
its maturity, its maturity as its
quality, and its quality—perfect.
Be sure it’s
Imperial’
: :
m
m
Mias
yv.
ft
S
HI
155
sa
•J
■a
/J
3k3
I
s
105 k
£E
r Mtf
r av;
K
wr
/ ,i
tt
I
V. 4
fi
>rJ
im
*
SC
««?
378
f
:::
K
•'-v
■ y'
/:.
*5
,~SV!
4'
»-v,
■S
ryt
sac
■ '■TSZZZto
jr’JixUZy.
*• l/i’
r
» •V" , J*fj- , -t»j|f
►'v :*
.'VJTX7
rs
’ /
&Mir+
*v
?TvA
w
Br'
W* , ,
a*
*r..
wa
V
<M3
\
*2
*£3
iX.
f
.j&r
agr*
V&L
K*S
*233
<*»
iff
I
ft!
*2


Many are Good
m
mmm
". m?/ m »v
/'. ; ''A'A* ' % >' ' x
' '','6' 4 y-,'. f •*' >
VS
mpfH M I gif?
'" f/ib to* *' '<
s??g?
SkSs?
LU
am
Ml
WATSON’S
No. 10
is best!
Aching Back,
The bane alike of the housewife and of the work-
ing inan. In some cases every movement of the body
is accompanied by a sharp stabbing pain in the small
of the back, and in others, the pain is dull and con-
tinuous. These are symptoms of kidney disease.
Arrest its progress by using Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills,
which will act in a surprisingly prompt manner.
Price, Is. 6d. and 2s. 6d.*
The Plum Razor is made with particular considera-
tion for our s.lb-tropical climate. Its specially
hollow-ground blade has a great sale. The Plum re-
quires little stropping, is always ready for use, and
will shave the roughest beard with a clean-cutting
result that leaves no stinging after-effect. The com-
position of the blade —pure silver steel—renders the
Plum impervious to climatic changes, and its splen-
did finish allows of its giving a particularly keen
edge after a few minutes’ treatment with the hone.
The Plum Razor is 10s. 6d., post free, and the Pro-
prietors, Messrs. Craig and Aitken, guarantee to
keep it in order two years free of charge.*
INDIGESTION FOR
OVER FIVE YEARS
This Woman had a Miserable
Existence.
Cured after everything; else failed
by Dr. Williams' Pink Pills.
After putting in five miserable years with
Indigestion, Mrs. David Watt, of Perkins-
street, South Townsville, Queensland, was
cured by Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills. That
these pills have cured a very large number
of sufferers from Indigestion, who have pub-
licly spoken of their cures in the news-
papers, is the highest recommendation they
could have. The following statement was
taken down word for word by a reporter
who interviewed Mrs. Watt
“Some years ago Indigestion came on me
by degrees, and I was a confirmed sufferer
with it for over five years. My food began
to disagree with me. I found it lying
heavily on my chest and causing quite a
tender aching pain at the end of the breast
bone and running right round to my
shoulder blades. I only found relief by
retching up the little I had swallowed, and
there was hardly a day when I could keep
it down. I could not wear a belt or any
tight clothing, I would be so distended with
wind for hours. I was as thin as a rake, as
you may say; my clothes fairly hung on me.
My skin was a saffron color. I never had
an hour’s peace. I slept restlessly at night,
and woke up heavy and drowsy with my
tongue coated and my mouth tasting nasty.
My heart would palpitate furiously if I
walked a few yards, and I would have to
stop and get my breath in gasps. My head
was always throbbing furiously in the fore-
head. For days I would hardly eat a
morsel. I had to get in outside help to do
the housework, as I would be fit for nothing.
I would faint off sometimes, and a cold
perspiration would break out all over me. I
was so low spirited I would sit and cry for
hours. I went to doctors, and tried many
medicines without getting any relief, but I
am glad to say my health was restored by
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills. Little by little
my appetite improved, and the chest pains
wore off. I kept on with them and never
looked back. My health since I took the
last box has been perfect. I filled out and
got a healthy color, and now I can eat what-
ever I fancy without suffering. I also tried
them for two of my children with good re-
sults.”
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are sold by
chemists and storekeepers, or sent by mail,
post paid on receipt of price. 2/9 per box, 6
boxes 15/3, by the Dr. Williams’ Medicine
Co. of Australasia Ltd., Sydney.
1!
3
<£«L-
fjg
A Truss in
time saves
trouble. I f
tup tu re d,
prevent de-
v el o pments
and expense
by at once
getting Den-
yer’s Special
Elastic
Truss made
to your exact size—a perfect safeguard ; also com.
fort itself. DENYER BROS., Truss & Abdomina t
Belt Makers, 281 George St. (opp. Hunter St.), Syd
key ; and cr. Swansron & Lonsdale Sts., Melbourne -
OENYER
Single, 17/6;
Double, 22/6
Call or write.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Victoria has an idea that it has just
discovered, among the N.S.W. archives,
proof that the Riverina belongs, not to the
Ma State, but to the little one on the other
side of the Murray. The discovery was
made wnile a search was in progress in con-
nection with another matter altogether ; and
Wade, V.C., and others profess to think that
it is ' despicable” of Victoria to use infor-
mation thus acquired. This opens up a
new question, which can only be answered
by the Ma State making all her records
bearing upon their early affairs accessible to
all the States, seeing that those records are
the only means Whereby many things can be
straightened out. If any alternative is de-
sired, it will have to be created by. cursed
Unification —in other words, Ma, with the
others, will have to give up her early records
to a Federal department which will handle
them in the interests of Australia.
The John Weary Government has just
discovered that, even if Freetrade England
is glad enough to get rid of its “surplus”
population, the Protectionist countries are
mostly quite as anxious to keep their people
as Australia is to get them. In the Weary
Government’s case, a Vic. immigration agent
in Copenhagen had booked a few young
Danes —mostly farm laborers —for passages
to the State, on contract terms as regards
their passage money. The immigrants have
been duly placed in employment, and are
apparentiy satisfied; but the Danish law
was infringed, it seems, by the agent who
induced those young men to sign in their
own land a contract which could be enforced
against them in a foreign country. Admit-
tedly, this excellent Danish law is intended
to discourage the emigration of Danish sub-
jects ; evidently Denmark has had previous
experience of immigration agents who have
lured good material away with promises of
fortunes that didn’t materialise when the
good material unshipped itself at the other
end.
THEY CANNOT HARM HIM NOW'.
A great deal of useful work had been accomplished,
especially in the matter of the exchange of flags.—-
British Empire League item.
Remark —nothing more —by Lloyd George :
I would treat the man receiving rents from insani-
tary dwellings as the receiver of stolen property.
When legislative power is given to do that
in Britain, it will be the forerunner of an
Act to entirely dissolve Fat. Judged by the
present rate of progress in Tory, starving,
Freetrade Britain, it will arrive just in time
to see Gabriel putting the Last Day in the
Eternal Dust-box.
“King Division”: Can’t Wade, V.C., ever
be anything but dull? Was listening to him
the other night on the Criminal Appeal Bill,
a subject upon which the old Crown Prose-
cutor ought to be an expert, and to
have been positively brilliant; but a prosier,
leadier speech I never heard. His favorite
expression was: “As I have already said
three or four times, Mr. Speaker,” a confes-
sion of dulness and of tedious repetition
which, in the interests of a bored Assembly
and wasted public time, the Speaker should
have taken notice of.
Socialism is a dreadful thing, and day
labor is a curse, and the man or the State
that doesn’t employ a middleman to build
railways and supply coal and make
bricks and do nearly everything else is, of
course, a fool. N.S.W. country storekeep-
ers, as a rule, hold * this true “Liberal”
faith with firm hands ; wherefore it is very
distressing to find that they have just formed
a co-operative concern called Merchants,
Ltd., with a capital of £50,000. They in-
tend to purchase direct from manufacturers
and manufacturers’ agents all classes of
general merchandise handled by wholesale
distributing warehouses, and they reckon to
save a heap of money. For one thing, they
are prepared to pay prompt cash, whereas
the middlemen warehouses, giving long-
credit themselves, get into the habit of ask-
ing for it.
With nice regard for the fitness of things,
Bigjohn Forrest chose a Fishmongers’ ban-
quet as the occasion for telling J. Bull how
much he despised the idea of a separate Aus-
tralian navy.
The present S. Aus. Parliament has the
curious experience of starting off with 42
members and dropping two on the road.
When tue Commonwealth took over the
Northern Territory, the two members for
that part had to quit. They were Tom
Crush (Labor) and J. A. V. Brown (Lib-
eral ).
The death of John Macintosh leaves
George Lee, of Bathurst, the unchallenge-
able ancient of the N.S.W. nominee Legisla-
tive Council. They were both put into
the House of Propputy in 1881, and for
nearly 30 years have been available, when
called upon, to drop in and say No to the
people’s Yes. And they call that “Govern-
ment by the people!”
Down South the gibe of “spoon-fed indus-
try” has always been thrown at the sugar
business on account of the white-labor
bonus. If the people who threw that gibe
didn’t know they were lying, they must nave
gaped in surprise the other day when
they heard the growers asking for the aboli-
tion of the bonus. Of course, it never has
been, strictly speaking, a bonus. It has
been merely a rebate of excise duty; and the
growers figure it out that the excise duty
which they l ave to pay amounts to fl per
ton more than the bonus which they receive
as an alleged reward for “working white.”
The Victorian Farmers’ Conference, sit-
ting at Shepparton, is squealing because the
“honorable understanding” among wheat-
buyers is pinching them. Yet the organised
farmers of Victoria bitterly opposed the
Referenda proposals, which could have made
short work of horrible understandings. As
a matter of fact, cocky has more to lose
through the operations of trusts and com-
bines than anv other class of the com-
munity. Mostly he has sense enough to
know it too, but his hatred of the Labor
party won’t let him vote for its proposals.
He is like the lady who refused to be rescued
from drowning because the man who dived
after her wasn’t wearing a necktie.
Victoria badly needs that Apprenticeship
Act which Willie Watt has promised, but
will probably throw overboard in order to
hurry to the elections. A solemn-faced
youth was charged at the Brunswick
(Melb.) police court the other day with
having broken his indentures of alleged ap-
prenticeship to a joiner. The boy’s father
gave evidence :
Defendant is my son. Instead of learning the trade
he has been sent out with a truck. I object to my
boy taking the place of a common horse in a cart.
(Laughter.) I am anxious for the apprenticeship
to be cancelled, so that my son can learn joinery
instead of being turned out as a job carpenter. I
am fighting this case to a finish to prevent my son
being sent back. (Laughter.)
Why the brainless guffaws ? Apprenticeship
in Victoria in dozens of cases merely gives
the employer some cheap boy labor; the boy
learns little, and by-and-bye is turned out
useless, shiftless and unskilled. (Laughter.)
Having reached manhood, he is generally
unemployed. (Renewed laughter.) If he is
reckless enough to marry, his wife and chil-
dren live on the edge of misery. (Roars of
laughter.) An Apprenticeship Act is needed
to make the employer do something for the
apprentice, instead of merely sweating the
apprentice under bond to his employer.
(Shrieks of dissent.)
WHERE THE SHOE PINCHES.
The N.S.W. Liberal conference after a long discussion
affirmed that the nominee system is best for the Upper
Chamber. —News item.
WADE : " Interfere with you? Certainly not!
The Federal Upper House is elective; and
what's the result? Filled with Labor mem-
bers.”
Every day some deputation goes to
some Minister to implore Government
to import artisans to fill the present
“ dearth ”; and The Bulletin waits
anxiously to hear from the Argus, or
the Telegraph, or some other economic
authority that this will be a dangerous in-
terference with natural laws of supply and
demand. It is up to the Argus to say that
the creation of such artificial conditions in
the labor market must inevitably end in con-
fusion, loss and ruin; but, instead, it
whoops enthusiastically for this meddle-
some interference by Government. Why?
Is not the supply-and-demand law good
sauce for the employer as well as for the
employee? It must puzzle the honest and
respectful reader of the Argus to find that
“paternal government,” so hideous when it
helps the working man, is So beautiful and
desirable a thing when it comes to the aid
of the boss.
w r .T, my ” Parata, chief of the Ngai-
tahu, Waitaha, and Ngatimamoe tribes, who
M T re M reSente r d w he S ° uthe ™ Maoris in the
I R . eps - for the Past 26 years,
has decided to sit under the shade of his
sheltering wharepuni for the future—or as
much of the future as his regiments of
friends hope will come his way—and let
I arhament look after itself. After the
pawnbroker, Parata is probably the most
popular man in the M.L. Parliament. It is
a pity he is retiring first.
MA GOES INTO TRAINING.
It would seem as if our Victorian friends are looking
for trouble [over the Riverina matter], and assuredly
they will get it.—S. M. Herald, broodingly.
There is more than a vague yearning for
conquest in the growling of the big dogs
over Morocco. That country is full of de-
posits of iron, which both France and Ger-
many want —partly to build navies where-
with to make remarks to each other. If the
dusky Moor did not walk on hills of iron
ore he would be much more likely to be
allowed his pastimes of assassination and
bastinado in peace. But as he is cursed
with this wealth beneath the soil, his Chris-
tian friends in Europe are all solicitous for
his health, his morals and his spiritual de-
velopment. He doesn't like it. The Eng-
lish Spectator remarks plaintively that the
Moor shows “a muddy mixture of pride and
ignorance” in his attitude towards his bene-
factors. The low, savage creature!
BILL AND BERT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The sergeant-major ant] the boy officers were
forced to take refuge in the area office, which was
bombarded with stones.
A boy, who had misbehaved himself in the ranks,
was brought out. . . . The services of a policeman
were requisitioned.
The officers ordered the boys to obey commands
. . . One lad was seen to stoop and pick up a
handful of mud. It left the hand of the youth, and
bespattered an officer.
—Commonwealth military news.
Mum sits at home and sighs and frets. It almost
makes her ill
When none of us have time to see young Bertie home
from drill.
Bill smokes his pipe and wildly says, “Oh, blow the
blooming kid 1
I wish to God he’d play at home like all us young-
sters did!”
Then mother says: “Now, Bill, you know quite well
it isn’t play !
Poor Bertie’s being taught to fight, and all the
papers say
That these poor children yet may have to fight with
men ! Oh, dear !
I wish that child was safe at home! It’s time that
he was here! ”
Bill smiles a wide, indulgent smile, and reads the
sporting page;
Bill’s big enough to fight a score—but, then, he’s
over age;
For twenty summers Bill has seen, and, though in
first-class health,
Ilis fighting days are past and done for this fair
Commonwealth.
Of course, he never buckled on a laden cartridge-
belt,
Or drilled, or practised at the butts, or burning
powder smelt;
According to the Act he’s much too old to learn the
trade;
What he could join would be a Novice Veteran’s
Brigade.
When Bertie hasn’t got to drill Bill hunts him off
to bed,
And if he tries to give him cheek he cuffs the
youngster’s head;
Then off he goes to listen to some politician’s brag
About the laws they’re going to pass, the Empire
and the Flag;
And when the speaker says we’ve got the guns to
back the laws,
Bill shouts “Hear! Hear!” and helps to swell the
popular applause.
He never thinks of this (and if you told him he’d
be hurt),
That what he cheers when he goes out is that poor
youngster Bert!
Poor Mum can’t settle down to sew when Bert is on
parade,
For hoodlums go and pelt the Austral Infantile
Brigade ;
The rear-rank keeps on throwing mud, and that plays
up with clothes;
And once when Bert kicked up a row a private
punched his nose;
The Major can’t keep order, so the Sergeant (of
Police)
Keeps handy when they’re “drilling,” to preserve
the precious peace;
Mum seems to think it likely that her youngest
child they’ll kill,
So she implores old Bill to go and bring him home
from drill.
And some nights Bill gets sick of it, and says, “Oh,
d- —n it all! ”
And tramps out singing loudly “Let me like a soldier
fall!”
He couldn’t if he tried to, for he hasn’t got a gun—-
Young Bert would man the trenches while his brother
cut and run.
Bill never stops and wonders what he’d do if trouble
came,
And all the banks were bursting, and there was no
football game.
So Bill makes fun of Mother, and when they reach
the door,
He hangs his hat up, saying, “Got the Colonel home
once more!”
He’d raze the suburb if you touched a hair of Bertie’s
head,
But he can’t read his paper till young Kitchener’s
in bed ;
For all the “army” chatter is of alley-tors and
tops—
It’s most uninteresting, and it never, never stops.
So Bill at last says: “Colonel! Ten o’clock now!
Off you go!
Retire and dream of battles till the breakfast bugles
blow-!”
Then he looks up the betting; but ’tis little heed he
takes
That Nippon is the fav’rite for the Grand Pacific
Stakes.
N.S.W.
FOE.


T £' LEADING HOUSE
FOR
PIANOS
STEINWAY BRINSMEAD
FEURICH
THE PIANOS INVARIABLY SELECTED
THE WORLD’S GREATEST ARTISTS.
EASY TERMS.
NICHOLSON 8 CO.
Sydney,
Brisbane,
LIMITED
Newcastle
Toowoomba
Orange
Warwick
PATH t
FRERES
51-53
PATHE
FRERES
ARE THE NUMBERS
... OF ...
Our NEW PREMISES in
ELIZABETH STREET,
WHERE WE INVITE YOU
TO CALL AND SEE
The Finest Stock of
Films & Cinematograph
Outfits in the World.
PATHE FRERES
AUSTRALIA,
SYDNEY BRANCH.
r
Quality <
Hats at
Farmer’s
1
QUALITY is the dominant factor in everything, and Quality Hats
are giving splendid service long after the price has beem forgotten.
Don’t wear a smart suit and an inferior make of Hat. The
whole effect is ruined.
A Good Hat costs but little more than the inferior kind,in the first
instance, but it will give three times the wear.
Quality Hats are the only kind that find a place in our Men’s Hat
section, and direct communication with the centres where Hat Styles
originate keeps us in the forefront as dictators of Men’s Hat Fashions.
DURING THE BONUS SALE
All Hats are Less the 10 % Bonus.
Real Fur Hard Hats (as illustrated ) —
Prices 7/6, 10/6, 12/6, 14 6, 15/6 each
(Less the Bonus).
Stetson’s Newest Soft Felt Shapes
(as illustrated ), The Last Word in Hat Perfection—
Prices 25/ — 36Z-* (Less the Bonus).
FARMER’S, SYDNEY.
'VAC MAR
K
r Sheep-branding Fluid
that lasts from shearing
fo shearing.
Yef comes out completely
in fhe scouring of the wool
DOES NOT MAT THE FLEECE
Vacuum Oil Company Propty. Ltd.
Throughout the Commonweairh
and New Zealand.
fjg


HAIR PRESERVED
AND BEAUTIFIED
BY USING
Rowland’s
MACASSAR OIL.
It prevents baldness, eradicates scurf, is the best
dressing for ladies’ hair and for Children it is invalu-
able. Also in a Golden Colour for fair hair.
Sizes 3s. 6d., 75., 10s. 6d. Sold by Stores
Chemists, & A. Rowland & Sons, Hatton Garden,
London.
Opinion of landed-gent. Onslow, M.L.A.,
as expressed by Morton, M.L.A., in the
N.S.W. Assembly the other night:—
Onslow: I should be inclined to think my hon.
friend knows more about cows than' horses.
Morton: I have known the hon. member for some
years.
No vote was taken. ,
Sprains and Bruises.
Comstock’s Nekve and Bone Liniment Used
with Wonderful Success. A Balmain
Resident’s Testimony,
“Some months avo,” writes Mr. J. Bur-
gess, of Balmain, Sydney, “I had a nasty
fall, severely bruising the kneecap and
spraining my wrist. Having been recom-
mended Comstock’s Nerve and Bone Lini-
ment on a previous occasion, I had the bal-
ance of the bottle in the house, and got my
wife to apply it, after bathing the parts
with warm water. It gave me almost in-
stant relief, and in a few days all traces of
the accident had disappeared. I really
think the Liniment saved me several days
of incapacitation.”
A sprain is an injury to the ligaments of
a joint, usually the wrist or the ankle, by
accident or over-straining. Sprains are
usually attended with much pain and swell-
ing of the part, and sometimes _ produce
fainting and vomiting. Comstock’s Nerve
and Bone Liniment is an ideal remedy for
sprains, and should be applied frequently
and well rubbed in until all traces have dis-
appeared. As sprains are one of the most
frequent accidents, every household should
contain a bottle of this valuable Liniment
for this purpose if for nothing else. Sold by
all leading chemists and storekeepers, price
2s. 6d., or will be forwarded by post at same
price by the W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd., 58
Pitt Street, Sydney.
t
fi
CORSETS
Made in Canada for Ladies
who seek a better figure.
RESCH’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents—RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Brewery and Offices :
Dowling Street, REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
In the typical grey weather of a Mel-
bourne July, the V.tt.C. National’s meeting was
concluded at Flemington last Saturday, when
the punters rolled up in their thousands, and
betted more freely than for years past. Only
14 runners lined up for the G. N. Steeple,
but 12 of them carried a lot of money; so
the victory of Confide, the final favorite
(Grafnax having got under suspicion during the
week), didn’t prevent the books from winning as
usual. Confide’s victory was said to be merely a
question whether that somewhat hasty jumper could
stand up. When the field passed the Grand Stand
the first time, it seemed that the favorite must
presently come to grief as the result of taking off
too soon for the leap. But he improved in this
respect, and, from the time he collared the great
Grafnax at the last fence, there was no doubt that his
speed would do the trick. With only a comfortable
lOst. 21b. to cany, he held everything safe at the
weights.
The error of this journal in tipping Confide in last
issue as a mare, and remarking that “her sex was
against her,” must be charged to the account of the
Australian Racing Chronicle, which had indexed
him of late as a mare instead of a bay gelding. On
the evidence of an otherwise trustworthy volume,
Confide ought to have been a mare; nor would any
feminine weakness have kept the offspring of Marcombe
and Trust from winning, perhaps. Leah Kleshna, the
only mare among the starters, finished a respectable
second in a rather slow-run race. Grafnax, the victor
in 1910 and 1909, ran third, and Squirm was
fourth.
Given any sort of show to mispronounce a horse’s
name, the bookmakers always seize the opportunity.
Nine out of ten of them bawled “Confide!” The
child of Trust was christened Confide; but the
bokoed monarchs of the Turf elected to dump their
accent on the first syllable. It recalls the days when
Floreat Etona was running in England. The Ring
pronounced the animal Florut Hettoner.
The Y.R.C. Committee having inquired into the
mystery of how Arquebus came to win the G. N.
Hurdle Race, and to be backed down to 12 to 1 for
that event, after two bad displays of “recent form,”
are of official opinion that the explanation was “satis-
factory.” Although not satisfactory to reasoning
experts in the racing game, the inquiry was luminous
as regards the tactics of the licensed gentlemen who
make the odds. An examination of all their books
is said to have revealed the fact that the whole of
the money laid against Arquebus,, including inter-
book wagers, amounted to less than £24,000, most
of which was booked at 33 and 25 to 1. These
were the extreme outside prices about a nag that had
no paper pretensions to win. A few big wagers being
laid, the odds-merchants brought the price down to
16, 14, and even 12 to 1, knowing that the
S’Australian section of punters would surely take the
best price obtainable, whilst the rest of the _ public
(mostly Victorian) would be choked off the idea of
backing the rumored good thing at absurdly short
odds. Had the V.R.C. inquiry produced a state-
ment of the total receipts of the books from all
sources, it would, probably, appear that they netted
at least £12,000 to £15,000 by the G. N. Hurdle
Race. On total receipts of (say) £40,000, the
bookmakers made a profit of '(say) 35 per cent.,
whereas a Totalisator would have stuck to 10 per
cent. only. It will be said that books lose a trifle
of their paper profits in bad debts. Well, the Tote
can’t make bad debts.
Before the sudden Arquebusean “reversal of form”
was inquired into, a Melbourne paper threw out the
soothing suggestion that the S’Australian horse had
won the National by a fluke. This gentle theory
was knocked a-cock last Saturday, when the same
Arouebus, carrying 221 b. more than his National
weight, won the Doutta Galla Hurdle Race in good
style. The distance was J-mile shorter, but the
“fluke” horse romped to the front half a mile from
home, and scored 'almost as easily as in the longer
race. # #
McGregor, who piloted Confide to victory
in the G. N. Steeple on Saturday, says he has had
109 falls in riding horses over fences. Six broken
bones and a twisted visage are among his trophies.
After one smash-up he had over nine months’ spell
in hospital. “Brutal” boxing fool to it.^
Maoriland’s Commission, annointed to
guide the Government in cutting down the Domin-
ion’s racing, has knocked out 47 days’ “sport,” leav-
ing 199 days altogether. The big centres have not been
badly hit; and elsewhere some of the “wiping out” has
been done to force amalgamation of adjacent clubs.
The Commission’s decision holds force for 12
months; thereafter the Minister is dictator.
Stepniak, one of late Maorilander G. G.
Stead’s bargains, has just died, aged 22. At three
years old he won the treble Canterbury Stewards’
Handicap, Derby and Cup. His descendants, the best
of whom was All Red, have won close on £lOO,OOO
in stakes.
Last year Queensland Government ga-
thered in £5BBB in tote tax, while the Canterbury
and Auckland racing clubs presented the M.L. Trea-
sury with £12,765 during the same period. In
N.S.W. and Victoria not only is the bookmaker, a
protected hawk that is permitted to gormandise
on the public pigeon, but the State, moreover, throws
away a respectable income.
Sydney bookmakerdom is plying its trade
more impudently than for years past. It is just as
easy to get five bob on a prad nowadays as it is to
swallow a long beer on a hot day ; and if the Law
doesn’t wish to fall into more disrepute than ever,
it should stop winking, and notify the fat parasites
that it is time they took out a hawker’s license to
offer their wares in the street, or else get work.
A steeplechase at Port Pirie (S.A.) only
came a little short of that absolute record in which
no horse finished at all. In the Port Pirie case, one
of the four starters was down and out at the first
fence, and another at the fourth. Pendle also fell
at the first, but got up again and proceeded, after
an interval. Coalbox ran off once, but had plenty of
time to reconsider the position, for Pendle’s rider had
now got off to tighten his girths I Coalbox came
home alone, thoughtfully, and Pendle strolled in some
time later. _
* * * *
The Dutch may be slow, but they get
there just the same. June 15 saw the end of Isaac
Noses and the installation of the tote all over
Schnappsland. Also, during the last week or so, a
number of alleged British “commission agents, at
Flushing, have cleared out to Switzerland —and by
the look of things they won’t be there long.
* * * *
A gasp of surprise and a guffaw of de-
rision greeted the announcement that Jack Johnson
and Bill Lang would fight in Sydney on Easter Mon-
day next. How on earth the word “fight” got on the
posters is beyond understanding. Still, there were
several people who saw nothing ridiculous in the pro-
posal—Mr. Lang among them. Another was Duke
Mullins. Said Mullins: “There’s not another man
living who knows as much about that nigger as I do.
I’m the only man in Australia who saw him weigh
for his match with Burns.” (And here the Duke
grows interesting.) “And I say now, for the first
time, that he scaled 14st. 101 b. exactly. Knowing
all I do know about Johnson, I don’t hesitate to say
that Lang has a tip-top chance of beating him.”
Lang’s remarks were too lengthy to be boiled down;
but what he said when asked how he would fare
against Johnson’s uppercuts, is too pure a gem to
be lost: “Johnson spent hours teaching me how to
block those. It’s not such a terrific punch, after all;
and even if it was it wouldn’t worry me. Johnson
is not like other boxers I have met.” (He isn’t,
Bill, he isn’t!) “He has not got a deadly knock-
out. If he had one, he would have put Burns out
when he fought him. The punches he used to land
on me in training never hurt me, and we did some
heavy work, I can tell you. Why, when the Burns
fight was in progress, he said, during one of the in-
tervals, that it was easier than sparring with me in
the gymnasium.”
* * * *
However, on Monday morning came the news that
Johnson denied having signed articles to fight Lang,
of whom he spoke somewhat contemptuously as a
fighter, remarking that he had previously walloped
the gentleman quite easily. Most contradictory yarns
continue to come along re Johnson’s financial state.
One set represents him as being dead-broke, and
anxious to take on any paying scrap whatever. An-
other represents him as still ablaze with jewels.
Probably the truth is that he has spent his wad, but
as he is still a mighty draw at the music halls, and
seems to be rushed with business, he is not likely to
have to pawn his jewels to avoid spending a night
on the Thames Embankment.
Honors were divided between metropoli-
tan and country boxers at the recent Bananaland
boxing championship meeting. The city won in the
bantam, feather and lightweight divisions, and the
countrymen were on top in the welter, middleweight
and heavyweight sections.
*" * * *
Jack Howard (12st. 20z.) met Bill Walsh
(12st.) at Melbourne Athletic Club’s Hall, and the
mill did not grind slowly, whereat the gods were
immensely delighted. Walsh is a good, conscientious
fighter, but with nothing of his own. There are
droves of scrappers like him, and Howard is not ex-
ceedingly different. When the fourth was well on its
way, it was plain that Howard had got his man
where he wanted him. Walsh was down on three
occasions in No. 5, but was greedy for more. They
had to carry him to his corner when the gong went,
and then a friendly policeman called a finish. Howard
the conqueror.
In the all-in jiu-jitsu pully-haul in Mel-
bourne, betwen Albert Mounier, Australia’s best at
12st., and Ryugoru Shima, the lOst. 101 b. Jap, the
small brown person satisfactorily demonstrated the
fact that we have nothing here or hereabout —at any
rate, out of the mammoth class —to wipe up the
bundle of muscles from Nagasaki. Mounier secured
the first two falls, but the squat alien was so indif-
ferent at this stage that Clarence Weber, who was
acting as referee, addressed a loud protest to the
assemblage, and threatened to step down if the con-
test did not rage with more convincing violence.
Then it raged. Shima batted the matting with
Mounier, and twisted grips on him that made him
look like a none-too-robust angle-worm in the grasp
of an angry crab. The Jap won with five falls out
of seven. It would appear that he did not regard
Mounier as a destructive opponent at any time, but
had a showman’s laudable desire to give the public
something for its money.
* » * *
It won’t take many affairs like the
Shima-Mounier affair in Melbourne to bring jiu-jitsu
contests on to the prohibited list. Anything more
unpleasant than the description of how Shima se-
cured a good strangle-hold, and choked Mounier till
his eyes bulged, and his tongue protruded, would be
hard to produce, and people who like that sort of
thing are probably descended from the “gods” who
barracked over the butcheries in the Colosseum. Jiu-
jitsu is a useful thing to have about you in case of
need, like a revolver, or a brain-smasher. But it is
not a sport; it is the science of disablement and
permanent injury.
The “world’s professional ped. champion-
ship,” at Agricultural Ground, Sydney, on Saturday,
wasn’t an exhilarating affair. Champion Donaldson
did not run, on account of a “leg”; so Hol-
way’s only opponents were Postle and Taylor, and the
Yankee dished them comfortably. Postle started
well, but his leg failed; Taylor was just out of a
sick-bed. The timekeepers gave it is 12 7-10 sec., or
three yards under “evens.” But the statistical
human ostrich of ordinary proportions finds it hard to
gulp that down, in view of the sodden state of the
ground after 80 minutes of football.
* * * *
There isn’t much in the claim of Donald-
son that Ilolway’s victory does not entitle him to
the Sprint Championship of the World because he,
Donaldson, did not run. Donaldson agreed to
race for the world championship, and, as he didn’t
race, Holway claimed the title. Donaldson retired
because he couldn’t run, and how can a man who
can’t run be sprint champion of the world ?
A complication has arisen over the sprint
championship. The Rugby League, which controlled
the affair, wished to have the best men to act as
starters, judges, etc., and asked six high officials of
the N.S.W. Amateur Athletic Association to act. As
thev were not competing in any way, these gentle-
men took the positions offered, and, of course, gave
honorary service. Somebody remarked that the fact
that A.A.A. officers were in charge of the actual race
showed the high appreciation in which the amateur
men held professional running; and not a soul even
whispered “Beware !” But hardly was the race run when
amateur after amateur rose to demand “Whaffor?”
“If it is contamination for the competitors to mingle
with pros., how can the officials remain unspotted?”
is the ugly inquiry that is being asked vehemently.
And there’s going to be a row.
* * * *
Only another 16 days and nights of mad
prophecy and blatant skite before Arnst and Pearce
meet oh the Parramatta. The more sober of the bar-
rackers are now telling Pearce how to win. One
party suggests that he make the pace a cracker from
the start, and burst up the Arnst boiler in the first
mile. This, it is admitted, will necessitate making
“the cracker” something unusual in crackers. The
other party suggests that he merely hang on, letting
Arnst make the pace, and come with an almighty
rush at the finish. Curiously enough, very few seem
to worry about how Arnst will row the race. It is
apparently taken for granted that he will just go
like blazes for the winning-post. Meanwhile any
other gentlemen who wish to give the scullers free
advice can do so at 11 a.m. and 4 p.m. every day
on the course.
League Rugby in Sydney on Saturday
was strictly according to the book,, the expected
happening every time. South Sydney is on top with
14 competition points. The seat, however, is any-
thing but comfortable, as the beefy fellows from
Glebe are just below, with 12 points, and are certain
to be handy at the death. Newtown and Eastern
Suburbs have 10 points apiece, and beneath them are
only single figures and curses. South Sydney and
Newtown scored a draw (three points each). Annan-
dale, with the glory of its victory over Newtown
thick upon it, met Glebe at Wentworth Park, and was
scrunched by 26 points to 5. Glebe scored 6 tries
and 4 goals against 1 try and 1 goal. Anna.n-
dale’s only consolation was that it played a plucky
losing game. North Sydney, which was also covered
with glory gained by downing Glebe on the previous
Saturday, was at home to Western Suburbs. The
glory, sad to say, had developed into swelled head
and protuberant chest. The Western team was de-
feated by 11 points to 2, but the play of the victors
did them no credit. Eastern Suburbs, which was
rapidly losing favor in the eyes of its barrackers
through being beaten three times, woke up. It was
Balmain’s misfortune to be in the way when the
event happened, and Messenger’s men got it down
and fell upon it by 29 points to 7. Eor the first
time for a long while the Eastern rank and file played
the game instead of gaping open-mouthed at the
doings of Messenger. The result was satisfactory.
Curiously enough,-. Eastern Suburbs, although three
times walloped, bas scored more points than any
other team. There is nothing wrong with its quan-
tity, only its distribution. It has scored 134 points
against 123 by South Sydney, the top dog; 117
by Glebe, the second-top dog; and 85 by Newtown,
which shares with itself the position of third dog.
* * * *
With two wallopings inflicted on Sydney
Uni., the Maoriland ’Varsity 15 felt fairly sure of
rubbing Sydney Metropolitan’s nose in the dirt at
the University Oval last Saturday ; and the thought
of returning home with an unbroken series of vic-
tories was sweet, even if the series did consist of only
three. But, alack, pride did ever go before a
buster, and on Saturday Maoriland ’Varsity got it—-
and got it by a ghastly 22 points to 6. The first
half was fairly even, and, although the Metropolitan
team drew first blood with a try, at half-time it led
by only 6 to 3. But in the second spell it fell on
the -Maorilanders with the fury of Gog and Magog,
and scored 16 points while the Dominion made only
three. #
About the only thing that counts in Vic.
League oofball now is the scuffle between ’Wood, Carl-
ton and ’Roy, to decide which two shall get into the
“final four” with South and Essendon. ’Wood was
away at Geelong, where it kept its end up (53 to 43),
so everybody who wanted to see a strenuous game
meandered out to Fitzroy, where the locals encoun-
tered Carlton. By better handling and passing they
held their own, and a bit over, till the last quarter ;
then the Old Blues put in some rushes that would
take no denial, and a couple of hard-earned goals gave
them a four-point lead. The Maroons responded
gamely, and one got a mark 20 yards in front. A
straight shot meant victory; but the tremendous is-
sue unnerved the kicker, and only a behind resulted.
Then the bell rang, and ’Roy’s supporters crept
home disgruntled. Scores: Carlton 46 points, ’Roy
43. The Essendon-Melb. collision was chiefly notable
for the comparatively narrow victory of the “Same
Old” —57 to 49. The recent play of the ’Dons
doesn’t inspire confidence. Souths upended St. Kilda
by 86 to 49, and Richmond similarly treated ’Varsity
by 46 to 26. But the capers of Saints and Students
are alike uninteresting nowadays.
* * * *
In the Ass., Essendon added another win
to its unblemished record, Port being the victim , 77
points to 49. North outed ’Scray by 41 to 28. The
hopeless Preston team continued its downward career,
’Town booting it a bit further in the mud (50 to
29) • Northcote stepped on Brighton (62 to 47), and
’Wick was at home to ’Pran. The last was a
joyous bout that satisfied the most bigoted barrackers.
The ’Wicks, lasting better, piled on 22 points in the
last quarter to P’ran’s 7, and so finished 7 points
to the good—49 to 42—whereat the barrackers
opined “it was boshter football,” or “th’ umpire was
a fair cow,” according to the point of view.
* * * *
The week’s “play” included a disqualifi-
cation by the League for four weeks, a ditto by the
Ass. for 12 months, the reporting of no less than six
players from Long Gully (Bendigo), for general up-
roariousness, and the fining in £5 of a Nagambie ’bailer
who recklessly and valiantly “jobbed” a goal umpire
for signalling a goal which the ’bailer challenged.
The harmless necessary goal umpire has hitherto been
left in peace, but it looks as if he will henceforth
live the strenuous life too.
Adelaide is already planning things vigor-
ously for the football carnival (Australian rules)
that is to fill up the first fortnight of August. Col-
lingwood (Vic.), Kalgoorlie, Boulder City, and South
Fremantle (Westralia), and one or two from Broken
Hill, are certain visitors; and representative teams
will be there from all the States except Queensland.
Ma has no hope, but is sending an 18 along in the
true sporting spirit.
* * * *
The energetic J. D. Williams and his
picture co. are going to try to revive track cycling.
Two races will be held, one each in Sydney and Mel-
bourne, early next year. The first prize will be
£750, the second £2OO, the third £5O, with a
number of specials, including £lOO for any Aus-
tralian team that can break the world’s six-day
record. Considering those figures are 2737 - miles
176 yards, the record will take some breaking. This
burst of infernal speed was perpetrated by McFarland
and Moran in a N’York race. The little cycling
flutter is going to cost £6OOO all told, and the
Williams co. is lodging £1650 to guarantee the
prize money.
Road-cycling on the Homebush (Sydney)
roadway on Saturday provided an interesting com-
parison between the tearing capacity of the pro-
fessional and amateur cycling sections over 20 miles.
F. D. Walcott (N.S.W. League of Wheelmen) came
out on top with the fastest time, 54min. 35jsec. ;
while the scratch Cyclists’ Union rider, C. Bird,
wheeled over the distance in 54min. 44sec. Con-
ditions were equal; still the League champion had
little to crow about over the Slsec. predominance.
* * * *
Recently some of the dew was brushed off
the summit of Ben Nevis by a Ford motor-car (20
h.p.). The Scottish mountain is about 4500 ft. high,
the track is 51 miles long, and its average gradient
is one in six. Legs are wasted on the tourist who
does such things in a motor.
# * * *
A wealthy motorist in Sussex (Eng.) has
just had this bunch of souvenirs handed him. Fine,
£2O; costs, six guineas; forfeiture of current
license; no right to obtain another for five years.
By the way, isn’t this a sort of step towards that
Sterilisation of the Unfit, of which scientific men
now talk longingly?
This is the year of somersaults; quite a
number of test bike road races have had their direc-
tions changed, and now word comes that the Maori-
land Dunlop Road Race, which has hitherto been
from Timaru to Christchurch, will this year be from
Christchurch to Timaru. Out of the successful com-
petitors will be chosen the Maoriland team for the
Warrnambool, and it is expected that a large, beefy
crowd will swoop over the Tasman Sea with one
eye on the Goulburn-Sydney, and the other on the
W arrnambool-Melbou rne.
Now that wire motor wheels are coming
in, the heart of the chauffeur grows heavy. As for
the man who cleans his own jigger, the contract of
fishing out the dirt from all those interstices would
make a parson swear in the middle of his prayer.
What is required is a light aluminium covering on
both inside and outside of, the wheels to prevent
dust and mud working through. Till something of
the sort is brought along, the wire wheel will never
be really popular.
* * * *
The bumptious Wright Bros., who have
recently been trying to grab all aviation appliances
on the grounds that they are infringements of their
own original patents, got a bad set-back last week.
The United States Government, which has decided
to go in for aerial defence experiments in a large
way, ordered three machines at a cost of £2600.
But did they do the Wright thing? Not much!
They chose the Curtis machines, as representing the
latest developments in aeronautics.
Students of the Bristol school of aviation
have their flutters from Salisbury Plain, and it
is there that Busteed and Harrison, formerly em-
ployed as motor experts by the Tarrant Co. in Mel-
bourne, are learning the tricks of aviation with a
view to an Australian venture anon.
The tug-o’-war is apparently defunct as
a method of improving bank balances. An Adelaide
syndicate, the other day, advertised largely, offering
a first prize of £l5O, and other prizes amounting to
another £lOO. The entrance was free, but so few
nominations came to hand that the promoters de-
cided to save their money and buy beer.
Sydney swimmer Hardwick seems to have
the Law beaten. At the Empire Sports in London
he knocked out in one round W. Hazell, the English
amateur heavy-weight champion; and, later on, a
huge S’Afriean named Thompson, who had a bye,
went down to him in less than a round. Both
these unfortunate gentlemen are policemen. Is it
possible that Hardwick is “the Hope” ?
Sydney lacrosse premiership is providing
a big struggle, and with the season barely half
through, the competition hangs very much in doubt.
Petersham, which for two years has held the title,
is getting more knocks than notches; on Saturday
Stanmore wiped it out by 8 goals to 4, while Syd-
ney’s margin over Mosman was 12 goals against «■s;
and Balmain submerged Manly by 9 goals to 1. In
some of the matches the play was rough; and the
Association will need to fall heavily on players who
smack opponents’ heads with the netted sticks rather
than smite the ball. Teams from Queensland and
Vic. will swoop down on Sydney on the 22nd inst.,
in an effort to settle the Australian championship,
and generally put warmth in this branch of sport.
* * * *
Tasmania gathered in the Australian
hockey championship, at Launceston last week. In-
vading teams came from S. Aus., N.S.W. and
Victoria, and the chests of the islanders bumped out
many inches with pride over the victory.
* * * *
After many months the balance-sheet of
the Arnst-Barry match on the Zambesi has been
published, and reveals a deficit of £B3, which the
three guarantors have made good. It was Arnsts sud-
den demand for the extra £lOO exes. (£4OO instead
of £300) that killed the pig. Some exception was
taken to the £B9 charged to “postages, telegrams,
etc.,” but all objections' were withdrawn when it
was explained that it included the cost of drinks
supplied to the Englishmen during the six weeks they
were there. Tucker cost nothing, as the party
were the guests of the Chartered Co. “Etc. covers
a multitude of sins.
* * * *
Enter polo, and exit —well, most likely
“goff.” “They” have taken suddenly to polo, so
everybody who is anybody must do likewise, ffliere
is nothing exclusive about “goff.” Any wretched
shop-walker or senior clerk can buy a bag of go ft
sticks and a pair of knickerbockers to play in; and
there you are. One never knows whom one may
play with. But polo—ah, that’s the game! It
means a team of useless ponies, fit for the game and
nothing else, but costly. And when teams go visit-
ing, the impeeuniosity of the daring parvenu finds
him out. So enter polo; exit “goff” !
The newest athletic eftort in Sydney is
the formation of a Professional Sculling Association,
and the rapidly-growing army of professional scullers
makes the organisation possible. It is proposed to
keep the pastime alive with periodical races.
* * * *
“Pick”: Found recently in a Scottish
weekly an advt. soliciting donations towards a fund
to help the once famous wrestler and strong man,
Donald Dinnie. Away back in the ’Bo’s Donald made
an apparently profitable tour through Australia, and
later on was said to have raked in much money in
America; but evidently this Donald didn’t know
how to stick to the bawbees after they had arrived.


LOOK FOR NAME ON STRAP.
x-x-.s'-Yr-'rTx?
mmmm
WHAT IS STYLE?
'Y’HE Marshall idea of correct style includes
not only graceful shape and pleasing pro-
portions, but a Comfortable Fit as well.
Marshall Styles are decidedly
original—the newest shoe ideas
are always Marshall’s—
and in addition to these
strictly-in-the-lead models,
you always get Marshall’s
famous no-breaking-in fit.
Why not let your shoes be
Stylish and Comfortable ?
Doesn’t cost a penny more.
Get our new Style
Book and look over our
new winners.
2,
is
22/6
Also made in “ Klim-ax"
(our No. z Grade), at
18/6
Style No. 1519.
Dango
Pat. Colt Bal.
Calf Kid Quarters,
Bogo Last
(also in Blucher).
Sold
in over
500 Towns
MARSHALL SHOE CO.
RICHMOND, VIC.
260
ANOTHER STYLE NEXT WEEK
Scoop them out!
PUT aside the pick and shovel! An
EARTH SCOOP provides a
much quicker way of making
drains, irrigation channels, sinking dams,
land grading, and various earth-working
jobs usually pick-and-shovelled. This
Scoop has a bowl pressed cold from a
plate of toughest hardened steel. (Hot
pressed bowls are weak —especially at tjie
corners.) Fitted with steel runners and
detachable handles. Fills in a flash in
to all.
Thos. McPherson & Son
Est. SO Years,
582-588 Collins Street, Melbourne
/A
O'-
/
yj
The product of
One source only
More miles on * Shell ” than
on any other.
Its perfect purity -that's
the point*
Make^
your
own
Cigarette
twice
asgoodi
B AC.
I
PAPER
BB.ST and mtST
IF NOT PROCURABLE AT YOUR
TOBACCONIST APPLY TO THE AGENTS
Jacobs Bros, li? 255“ George Sf Sydney
FOOTWEAR COMFORT.
J The Rigney Shoe is comfortable from the first time you wear it—the
old shoe” feeling with the “new shoe” appearance is guaranteed with
every pair.
In smartness of style, excellence of finish and serviceability, the Rigney
Shoe stands pre-eminent.
The Shoe illustrated is a Patent Kid Lace Shoe, dull calf Kid leg,
with patent lace facing. Walking or dress wear.
Price 27/6 And 30/« Postage 9d. extra.
Write for our NEW SHOE CATALOGUE.
The Rigney Shoe Co.,
“„The Men’s Exclusive High-Grade
Shoe Stores,”
305 GEORGE STREET, and
i 79a PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
Please note that the new shop in Pitt Street is under the personal management of Mr. F. C. Rigney, the
sole and only proprietor of the above firm.
jg
w
'J
LD
O BK^ey
ft
SCO
OLD ORKNEY
Real Liqueur Whisky
AGENTS:
SYDNEY-Tooheys, Ltd.
MELBOURNE—T. R. Jones & Go.
BRISBANE—EIIiott, Donaldson
& Douglas, Ltd.
ADELAIDE—Lord & Heseltine. ,
HOBART—John Ferguson & Co.'
LAUNGESTON—Jonn McKenzie & Co.
THE WHISKY
FOR IHf HOME
ĝĵg
CYCLE SUPREMACY
Cycle Supremacy is reached in “B. & B.” machines. That is the reason why you
should have one for your mount.
Our Model “A” is the one we particularly recommend. It is made throughout
of B.S.A. Parts, is light and easy running, yet the price is only £l3/10/-
Will you call and let us show you one? Then you will be in a position
to appreciate its merits. Open till 9 on Friday nights. If you cannot call, write
for Catalogue.
Bennett & Barkell, Ltd.,
Largest Cycle Building House in the State,
234 Pitt Street, and Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
THE “MOTA” HAT
(Regd.).
THE man who studies style and comfort in hats
has more than a DESIRE for the “ Mota” —he
has a NEED for one. For the “ Mota” at a
small price is the most comfortable and most dis-
tinctively stylish Soft Felt of the day.
For motoring, cycling:, riding, drivinsr and general
wear for town and country it is the Ideal Hat.
The material is good—it will wear well; the brim
and crown is easily adapted—it will suit your style.
Prices 7/6 to 12/6, in all fashionable colors, at
leading stores throughout Australia.
The name “ Mota ” is registered, and the design
also. Beware of infringements.
If unobtainable in your district, write us direct.
THE AUSTRAL HAT MILLS, LIMITED,
ABBOTSFORD, MELBOURNE.
THE LONE HAND offers you the Glad
Hand. It’s the Right Hand, and a week
after publication there are none left.
During the Progress of our GREAT REMOVAL
SALE we arc offering the following
Usual Price. Sale Price
Double - Barrelled, Breech - loading
Guns, engine-turned rib, left bar-
rel full choke, right modified, re-
bounding locks and pistol grip.
Trial £5 2 6 £3 12 6
Single-Barrel Duck Guns, large bore,
to kill at 100yds. Trial .. .. S 5 0 510 0
Single-Barrel, Hammerless, Breech-
loading Guns, choke bore, excellent
stock. Trial .. .. .. .. 310 0 117 6
Double - Barrelled, Breech - loading
Guns with Greener patent wedge
fast cross bolt, choke bore, walnut
stock, pistol grip, patent cartridge
ejector. Trial.. .. .. .. 510 0 417 6
Special Pigeon Guns, with patent
side clips, file cut rib, top lever,
choke bore, specially selected wal-
nut stock, Greener patent wedge
fast cross bolt. Trial .. .. 10 0 0 7 10 O
Mauser Principle Rifles, 22 calibre,
kill at 300yds. Trial .. .. 15 0 13 6
Guns by All Makers in Stock.
Write for Special Sale Catalogue.
ALL ORDERS FOR GUNS AND RIFLES DE-
LIVERED CARRIAGE PAID TO ANY ADDRESS
IN AUSTRALASIA.
tSmall Arms Co.
Gunsmiths &. Importers.
242-244 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE
THE PISTOL THAT MAKES NO MISTAKES.
YOU need not be an Expert revolver shot to
successfully use a “ Browning: Automatic
Pistol,” they are so absolutely accurate and
so steady in the hand that a mere novice can,
with a “ Browning',” frequently do better shoot-
ing than a practised shooter using an ordinary
revolver. This has been demonstrated most
conclusively by many of our clients, one case
being a man who, without previous experience,
before he had used 25 cartridges, could put five
out of six in the end of a kerosene tin at 50yds.
In addition to greater accuracy, they have more
than double the penetration of any revolvers of
the same Calibre. But, most important of all,
they are absolutely safe. The safest smallest
arm in the world, and can be left about where
children are without any danger whatever.
Price 60/- each.
Postage 1/- Catalogues Free.
rAsmoL'E mnoiMiE rtwiisfcsirm .mehsiai si.Ui.uji
LfIOVWNINCS FATBBT— OBPv SE
k *j; -i -*
B<|£ •_£ ■£
'
*SSf
ALCOCK & PIERCE,
318 Little Collins Street, Melbourne,
Between Elizabeth Street and Royal Arcade.
ĝ
fj
ĵgf
CAPILLARINE . NEVER FAILED YET.
THE SURE
MOUSTACHE
GROWER.
As a moustache producer and improver, we have received
the most excellent testimonials from men who used it. We
know of no case of failure. CAPILLAUINE is a perfect
moustache-food, strengthens the roots and makes the haii
bright and glossy.
START USING IT TO-DAY.
Price 10/6 a Jar, posted free anywhere.
The 0. &A. Moustache Trainer shapes the moustache. Morn
at nijfht. No. 1, 2/6; No. 2, 3/6; No. 3, 5/6. Post free.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
Established
30 Years.
S
J.


A. SAUNDERS’ DAINTY NEW JEWELLERY
FOR BIRTHDAY OR WEDDING GIFTS.
£2.
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Solid Silver Hunting
Keyless WATCH, Jewelled
Movement, Patent Adjusted
Balance,. £2-
Extra Quality, £2/10/. Works
Kept in Free Repair for 2 Yrs.
£2/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold LINKS, 10/6
loot Gold Links, 25/.
Silver, 3/6.
A SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold EAR-RINGS,
set Pearls and Turquoise
or Amethysts, 27/6-
A SAUNDERS.
9et Gold PENDANT,
set Pearls and Ame-
thyst, 25/-
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct Gold Claw-set
RING, Garnet, Ame-
thyst. or Topaz,
EXQUISITE GOODS, CHARAC-
TERISED BY DELIGHTFUL AND
ORIGINAL FANCY, AT ENTIRELY
MODERATE PRICES.
OUR FREE CATALOGUE IS A
BEAUTIFUL PRODUCTION, FULL
OF THOUSANDS OF GIFT SUG-
GESTIONS.
LET’S SEND YOU A COPY.
A. SAUNDERS.
loct Gold Secret Name BROOCH, Ruby
or Sapphire, £2.
Diamond-set. £2/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15et Gold, 2-Bar BROOCH, set Ruby or
Sapphire, 25/-
A. SAUNDERS.
9c t Gold PEND-
DANT, set Fine
Pearls and Ame-
thysts,
27/6-
9ct Gold Hand-clasp
RING, 25/.
15ct Gold, 40/.
A. SAUNDERS,.
Oct Gold LINKS, 17/6-
15ct Gold Links, 35/.
Initials Engraved, same
price.
A. SAUNDURS.
15ct Gold EAR-RINGS,
set Pearls and Peridot
or Tourmaline, £2-
7/6.
A. SAUNDERS
Solid Silver SOVEREIGN
TURSES, Plain 7/6, 8/6;
Silver-filled, 5/6; Nickel,
3/6.
*9/8
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Curb Bar and
BROOCH, 5/6-
Larger, 7/6.
Heart
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold, Diamonds and Rubies 01
phires, £2/10/-
Three Diamonds, £3/10/.
Sap-
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold, Expanding, WATCH BRACE-
LET, tl.e Latest Design, Lever Movement,
Lull Jewelled, a Perfect, Accurate, and
Reliable Little Timekeeper,
£6/10/.
Extra Jewelled Movement and
Heavier Bracelet,
£7/10/, £B/10, £lO.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold SOUTHERN CROSS
BROOCH, set Red, Blue, or
Stones, 7/6-
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Bar BROOCH, set Diamond and
Red or Blue Stones, 25A
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Double Bamboo BRACELET, with Safety Chain
attached, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold, Ivy Leaf BROOCH, 12/6.
15et Gold, 25/; Diamond, 40/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Plain Juvenile BANGLE, 15/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold, 2-Bar and Circle
set Red or Green Stone,
BROOCH,
10/6
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold, set Red
Stone or Olivine,
10/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Bird and Heart
CHARM,
7/6-
A. SAUNDERS.
38ct Gold, set Dia-
monds and Rubies or
Sapphires or Oliv-
ines, 3-row Half-hoop
RING, £7/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
ISct Gold, set Fine
Pure Double-cut Dia-
monds, £l2/10/-
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, set Dia-
monds and Rubies or
Sapphires, £2-
3 Diamonds, £3.
BEAUTIFUL
GIFT.
6 & Q
X .HO. J
ri
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold NECKLACE,
set 28 Fine Pure Double-
cut Diamonds and Three
Beautiful Green Tourma-
lines or Opals,
£25.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold “Dinna For-
get” CHARM,
10/.
Larger, 12/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold set 5
Pure Double-cut
Diamonds,
£7/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, Dia-
monds and Emer-
alds, Cluster RING,
£7/10/-
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, set Dia-
monds and Olivines,
£4/10/-
V. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold,
Set Pearls
and Garnet
ar Peridot,
12/6
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold, Fancy Basket Pattern BRACELET, Strong
Safety Chain attached, £3-
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold CURB NECKLET, Strong and Neat, 15/,
20/, 25/, 30/. 15ct Gold, 30/, 35/, £2, £2/10/, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold, 2-Bar BROOCH, set Diamonds and Rubies
or Sapphires,
25/-
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold, 2-Bar BROOCH, Amethyst Centre, 25/-
15ct Gold, £2.
£2.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Solid Silver Hunting Keyless Lever
WATCH, Full Jewelled, Non-magnetic,
Strong, Reliable, £2-
Guaranteed Free Repairs for 2 Years.
Extra Jewelled Movement, £2/10/.
£2/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold BAR BROOCH, Any Names
Engraved, 5/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold MEDAL,
15/-
15ct Gold, 30/.
Silver, 2/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
Act. Gold Plain Half-Round BRACELET,
Strong Catch and Safety Chain, £3/10.
15ct Gold, £5/10/.
& A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Crescent Pheasant BROOCH,
Pearls and Turquoise, 00/ -
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct Gold MEDAL,
set with Ruby or
Sapphire,
17/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold, “Heavy Trace’’ MUFF CHAIN, Particularly Handsome and Exclusive, £4/10/, £5/10/.
, 15ct Gold, £6/10/, £7/10/, £lO, £l2/10/.
15/-
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Nickel, Open-faced, Keyless, |-
Plate WATCH, Patent Adjusted Balance,
Non-magnetic, Time Spring, Dust and
Water Proof Cases, 15/-
Higher Grade, 25/-
20/-
gjgj
JEWELLER,
OCK t
MAKER
if
SAUNDERs
SYDNEYS LEADING JEWELLER.
807.809.811.813.815.817.GE0RGE ST. (Opposite Railway Station) SYDNEY.N.S.W.
g
SILVERSMITH
IHc
OPTICIAN


J
rsflcrigoi.
sW& ..
I tM-", *• m
> JS V /
.41
jf^Saw'y
v. ::y
*«*a
tes,
(JUdMNUED
WHISKT
[lUifli]
as
ĵfgjf
THE RED
w
BRAND OF
TRADE MARK
REQ. IN U. 8. PAT. OFF.
AND THROUGHOUT THE WORLD
Rifles, Shot Cuds and Ammunition
MADE HERE
:■&>. t.-
1 --‘jaM******
HH|
P»*
Gun and Cartridge Factor ies of the Winchester R epeati ng Arms Co.
D
is a well established fact that goods can be produced better and
more economically in a factory modern in equipment and
facilities. The plant of the Winchester Repeating Arms Co.
is such a one. It is the biggest in the world devoted to manufacturing
guns and ammunition, and its mammoth and up-to-the-minute equip-
ment, operated by experts of years of experience, produces the highest
class of goods at the lowest possible price consistent with the quality.
The Winchester plant is big, but it is still growing. Growth means
improvement in manufacturing processes, and better goods if it is
possible to make them so. Although Winchester goods are made in
this skillful and modern manner they cost no more than inferior
makes, but they are better by far—always ask for the Red Brand.
WINCHESTER REPEATING ARMS CO., NEW HAVEN, CONN., U. S. A.
gfg gf
pwwiwiwi
B BrandY-M
ĝ gf
The small round label on the Chateau
Tanunda Brandy bottle was placed
there by the Commonwealth Govern-
ment. First, and most important of
all, it proves that Chateau Tanunda
is a pure Australian Grape Brandy,
In these days, when doctors are pro-
testing so vigorously against the use of
raw, fiery alcohols, distilled from
improper materials, it is important
to know that Chateau Tanunda is
not only above suspicion, but is good
enough for your own Government to
guarantee.
H
“3
1
Alcock Billiard
Tables excel.
Consult any competent judge of billiard tables, and he’ll
promptly tell you that there are no tables equal to “ Alcock's.”
Many of the leading billiard matches have been played on
these tables—the Melbourne match between George Gray
and Fred Lindrum, jun., when Gray scored 836, 83f coming
off the red, is another proof of the marvellous accuracy and
perfect construction of our billiard tables.
Each table is fitted with Imperial Low Cushions, and
bears our trade mark.
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.
ALCOCK S’ CO. Pty. Ltd.
Billiard Table Manufadurers,
397 George St., Sydney. 114 Edward St., Brisbane. Baker Buildings,
Featherstone St., Wellington. 155 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
7 King William St., Adelaide. Murray St., Perth.
[5


Missing: Friends.
\ WILLIAM GEORGE DOREY, formerly of Camper-
down, Farmer, is requested to communicate
with LEONARD BUCKLAND, Solicitor, Camper-
down, Victoria, at once.
Business Announcements.
Price, 12/6 Posted, 13/'
JUST OUT.
DROVERS' GUIDE
By P. R. GORDON,
Late Chief Inspector of Stock and Brands, Queensland
Containing the latest Stock Route Maps of New South
Wales and Queensland, the new Queensland Maps
containing Stock Routes, Tanks and Dams, Main Roads,
Border Crossing Places, Bores, Trucking Yards, etc.
WATSON. FERGUSON & Co. Ltd. BRISBANE
CARBIDE.
For First-class Results Use Best
“ PERNIX ” CARBIDE.
Addresses of Merchants distributing it
can be obatined from
AUGUST BLUMENTHAL, LIMITED,
62 Pitt Street, Sydney, Sole Agents for Australia.
The Tongkah Harbour Tin Dredging Company
NOTICE OF DIVIDEND. No Liability.
XT OTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that a
T» DIVIDEND (the third) of 10 per
cent, has been declared, amounting to
£15,000, PAYABLE on 22nd July, 1911,
and for this purpose the SHARE REGIS-
TER will be CLOSED from 15th to 22nd
inst. H. J. WISE, Manager.
Hobart, Ist July, 1911.
Amusements,
Lyric and colonial theatres
Nos. 1 and 2, George Street, Sydney.
Direction J. D. Williams.
PERPETUAL MOTION from 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
PATRONISED BY 60,000 PEOPLE WEEKLY.
Run Under the Continuous Show System now the Rage
of England and America.
English and American Prices of Admission.
Same Prices at Each Theatre :
STALLS 3d. DRESS CIRCLE 6d.
ENTIRE CHANGE OF PROGRAMMES TWICE
WEEKLY : MONDAYS and THURSDAYS.
Afternoon Tea is Popular. Afternoon Pictures are the
Rage.
We Cater Specially for Ladies and Children During
Morning and Afternoon Sessions.
Ladies’ Retiring Rooms and Lady Attendants.
If it is to be seen anywhere you will see it at our
Theatres.
THE WORLD IN MOTION.
We want you to compare our Programmes and our
Theatres with others which charge twice our prices of
Admission.
THE GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS
AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
INTERNATIONAL PICTURES. COLONIAL
THEATRE BUILDINGS, 610 George Street, Sydney.
Mr. W. J. Morgan, General Manager.
This Company supplies the Lyric and Colonial Theatres
with all their photo plays, and also supplies the leading
photo plajr concerns throughout Australasia. In fact,
we supply more shows with pictures than any other
three (8) concerns combined.
Don’t forget, Mr. Showman, to write or call.
We have the money-getters. We do not represent any
one firm of photoplay manufacturers, but we represent
all the best. WE HAVE THOUSANDS OF EXCLUSIVE
SUBJECTS—EVERY ONE A WINNER.
Branches : Sutton Buildings, Melbourne ; Courier Build-
ings, Brisbane ; Wellington, New Zealand ; London,
England: Dewar House, Haymarket.
Just address your wire to “International Pictures.”
That’s sufficient.
> H
HALL,
SYDNEY.
NTONIA DOLORES.
FIRST CONCERT,
TUESDAY NEXT, JULY 18.
BOX PLAN AT PALING’S.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager: J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
MR. H. B. IR YI N G’S SEASON
EVERY EVENING at 7.50.
Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON presents
MR. H. B. IRVING and
MISS- DOROTHEA BAIRD
in Shakespeare’s Tragedy U A T\/f T 1-T 'l'
in Five Acts, XI AL -LVA Aj Aj X .
PLAN AT PALING’S.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Lessee & Manajrer .. J. C. WILLI AM SON, Ltd.
THE NEW COMIC OPERA COMPANY.
EVERY EVENING, AT 8.
Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON presents
THE MUSICAL PLAY IN THREE ACTS,
THU BALKAN PRINCESS.
Box Plan at Palinjr’s.
Prices as usual.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY
Lessee: FRANK MUSGROVE.
INSTANTANEOUS SUCCESS of the CLARKE and
MEYNELL NEW ENGLISH COMIC OPERA COMPANY
in
THE GAY GRTSETTE.
FOR A LIMITED SEASON ONLY.
Box Plan at ELVY’S. PRICES AS USUAL.
DELPHI SYDNEY.
Direction and Manajrement, Gkorge Marlow, Ltd.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of
DRIVING A GIRL TO DESTRUCTION.
SATURDAY NEXT, JULY 15,
will be presented FOR THE FIRST TIME in SYDNEY,
THE MOTHER of his CHI LI)
Interpreted by the Full Strength of GEORGE MARLOW’S
BRILLIANT DRAMATIC COMBINATION.
Box Plan at Elvy’s and White Rose Confectionery.
POPULAR PRICES—3s., 2s. & Is. Early Door, 6d. extra.
National amphitheatre, Sydney.
Sole Proprietors—Brennan’s Amphitheatres, Ltd.
Governing Director —Mr. James Brennan.
BRENNAN’S VAUDEVILLE ENTERTAINERS.
EVERY EVENING at 8 O’CLOCK.
Matinees—Wednesdays and Saturdays.
Startling . DE VILLIERS, Novelties.
TOBY CLAUDE, the Vest Pocket Comedienne.
ANITA DIAZ, with her wonderful Troupe of Monkeys.
JONES and JAMIESON. Our Great Double Company.
Ordinary Prices—2/-, 1 /6,1/.; Gallery 6d. Reserved Seats,
6d. extra. Saturday Nights—2/-, 1/6 & 1/-
AMATEUR TRIAL NIGHTS, FRIDAY EVENINGS
New princess theatre
(Late BIJOU, next to Glaciarium).
Also PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
COLOSSAL PEOPLE’S ENTERTAINMENTS BY
WEST’S PICTURES, LTD.
“BEST OF ALL.”
FAMILY MATINEES—WEDNESDAY, 2.30.
DE GROEN’S VICEREGAL ORCHESTRAS.
6d. to 2/- Plan at Nicholson’s (Fee, 6d. extu.G,
Amusements.
THE SHEFFIELD
CHOIR.
Direction .. .. DR. CHARLES HARRISS.
AUSTRALASIAN ITINERARY.
HOBART ...
MELBOURNE
BALLARAT...
ADELAIDE...
PERTH
JULY 13.
JULY 15 to 22.
JULY 21.
JULY 26 to 27.
AUGUST 3.
H. N. SOUTHWELL,
Sole Australasian Manager,
Sydney, c/o W. H. Paling & Co. Ltd.
Melbourne—c/o Allan & Co.
Adelaide— c/o Marshall & Sons.
Perth —c/o Nicholson & Co.
gYD N E Y GLACI A R I O M
REAL ICE SKATING.
THREE SESSIONS DAILY.
10 to 12. 3 to 5. 8 to 10.30.
Admission—2/-; Children : Morning & Afternoon only, 1/-
Children : Saturday Morning only, 6d.
SKATE HIRE-SIXPENCE.
Private Instruction may be Booked for Hours during
and between the Sessions.
’Phone, 492 Glebe. DUNBAR POOLE, Manager.
the. LYCEUM ..
__L EVERY EYENING AT S—
MATIHEES-VkEDNESOAYS SATURDAYS AND HOLIDAYS At 2 30-
SPENCERSIHEATRESCOPE <?.
PICTURES
/» /TRE SUPER. lOR TO /ILL OTHERS,
Popular Prices —Plata at PAUNoa.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor & Manager — Mr. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS.
BINNS & BINNS, the Comedv and Music Vagabonds.
ALCIDE CAPITAINE, The Perfect Lady Gymnast.
SPISSELL BROS. & MAOK, Eccentrics <fc Pantomimists.
ALE. HOLT, in his Laugh-provoking Imitations.
FRANCIS and ALFRED, Comedy Jugglers.
TED KALMAN, Australia’s Quaint Comedian.
KELDINE and KLEMO. THE TWO LILLIES.
And a GREAT COMPANY of Established Favorites.
PRICES—3s., 2s. and Is. Plan at Paling’s.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
REIOHEN’S PERFORMING DOGS.
LAMBERTI, in Impersonations of Great Masters of Music.
BLANCHE CHARMEROY, Musical Artiste.
MARGUERITE ISMAY and Girls in Spectacular Scene,
“Off to Lapland.”
TOM DAWSON, Australian Comedian,
DELINO, Wire Walker and Juggler.
Plan at Allan's. PRICES—3s., 25., Is.
THE KING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager : William Anderson.
A GREAT SUCCESS. i
WM. ANDERSON’S NEW DRAMATIC ORGANISATION.
SATURDAY, JULY 15,
a Revival of the Realistic Australian Drama,
THE MAN FROM OUTBACK
Reappearance of MISS EUGENIE DUGGAN.
Box Plan at Allan’s. PRICES-Ss., 2s. and Is.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager: J. C. Williamson, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING,
Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON presents
OUR MISS GIBBS.
By an Exceptionally Strong Cast.
Plan at Allan’s. PRICES —5/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/-.
pRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
LAST EIGHT NIGHTS OF SEASON.
HARRY PLIMMER & REYNOLDS DENNISTON CO. in
Clyde Fitch’s Charming Comedy of Rustic Manners,
LOVERS’ LANE.
PRICES AS USUAL. Plan at Allan’s.
yHEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE
THE EVENT OF THE YEAR.
A GIGANTIC ENTERPRISE.
MISS ETHEL IRVING and her LONDON COMPANY in
THE WITNESS FOR THE DEFENCE
Plans at Allan’s.
PRICES AS USUAL.
wi E S T’S PALACE, MELBOURNE.
THE BEST WEST’S PICTURES, T he best
OF ALL. LIMITED. OF ALL.
Managing Director : Mr. T. J. West.
NIGHTLY AT S.
Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays & All Holidays at 2.30.
The Greatest Pictorial Enterprise in the World.
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
Anv Moving Picture Worthy of Note always to be seen at
WEST’S PICTURES. Complete Change every week.
Prices—6d. to 2s. Box Plan at Glen’s.
Wl RTHSOLYMPIA.
EVERY EVENING AT B ——
MATIMEES-WEDNESDAYS.SATURDAYS AND HOLIDAYS AT 2 SO.
C PENCER'SIBtATRESCOPE <S.
rfRE SUPERIOR, TO PCI OTHERS
PIAM AS UeiIJAL.
YR Prices
LYRIC THEATRE, Chapel Street, Prahran, Vic.
EVERY NIGHT at 8. MATINEE, SATURDAY, at 2.30
THE FAMOUS “NON-FLICKER”
PHOTOPLAYS
on the Marvellous ” Mack ” Screen, together vvitn the
Superb LYRIC ORCHESTRA. 6d. to 2s. Plana at
Allan’s, C. M. Read’s and the Lyric Theatre Caf6.
| C E SKATING.
Melbourne GLACIAEIUM.
NOW OPEN
AFTERNOON—HaIf-past 3 o’clock.
EVENING-7.45 o’clock.
“LINSEED COMPOUND” —TradeMarkof Kay’s
jpmpoapd gseence of Linseed for Coughs and Colds.
ONQto
Business
is Business.
Even your pen can be a time saver . It is
foolish to use an old-fashioned dipping
steel pen when you can use the fountain
pen that fills itself and cannot leak.
Own an ONOTO—and save your time and money.
The ONOTO is British made—a perfect writing
implement that never scratches nor splutters— that is
guaranteed by its makers.
Price 12f and upwards.
Booklet about the Onoto Pen free on application >
to Thomas de la Rue & Co., Ltd., 351
Bunhill Row, London, E.C., or the
Australasian Representative,
Norman Baker, 50 York St.,
Sydney.
For BILIOUSNESS fir INDIGESTION
V)
u
es
D
ƒg
CONSTIPATION CONQUERED.
There lies the vital secret where so many diseases and ailments are
concerned — Constipation must be conquered, or normal organic action,
freedom from liver and kidney troubles, and from stomach and bowel
disorders, is not possible.
Cockle’s Pills conquer Constipation of the most stubbornly aggressive
kind; because they strengthen and stimulate and revivify the organs,
which they cleanse and regulate with such consummate ease and efficiency.
The whole system is freed from the wholesale disturbance due to the con-
stipated tendency, from blood impurities, from effete matter, from lurking
disease. Yet Cockle’s Pills act so gently and pleasingly that the most
delicate persons like them.
c/fteJMcm
fg
OTHER MODELS
From 7/6 to 40/*
The Accordeon with
The Mellow Tone
t Seta Ball Mata) Reeds. Price 161-. Post Free.
A FREE CATALOGUE WRITE TO
ALLAN & Co.,
276 Collins Street, Melbourne,
And also at BENDIGO & GEELONG.
PALMER
CORD
TYRES.
ĝ
THE
BEST
TYRES.
USED ON THE KING’S CARS.
Palmer Cord Tyres.
Only those tyres which have PROVED better than all others have the honor
of our King’s patronage——
Palmer Cord Tyres must, by reason of their unique and ingenious construction,
last longer and give greater satisfaction than those built upon a canvas foundation.
Apply for New Reduced Price List issued under date Ist May, 1911-
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER CO.,
279 GEORGE STREET SYDNEY and at 33 Bolton Street, Newcastle.


ğĵ
&
H
mmm
D*
FIDELITAS
gIL
■/> l%te yi>j • •
:Pi
■>£
till
JS.YS*
ip" s ,®'
/; ilO^r^^S
4*-
F.WOLFFaSOHN
, Karlsruhe
Triumph of
Modern Science
Obtainable from all leading establishments
The Body-Building
Power of
BOVRIL
* ■■
The Standardised BEEF FOOD.
Thus; If this refre -
seats the amount of
Bovril taken
n
( )
This outline dia-
rrum represents
the actual
MiODY-BUlLD-
kf.vr; power .
This diagram illustrates the
actual body-buil ding power of
Bovril, proved by recent
independent physiological
experiments to be
10 to 20 times
the amount taken.
Bovril, Ltd., hold the Royal Warrant of
Appointment to His Majesty King George V.,
an Appointment also held for many years
from the late King Edward VII.
BOOT POLIS HES
OF renown.
MELTONIAN
CREAMH
(Obtainable in Black and White).
LUTETIAN
CREAM ■■
(Made in light and dark colour*).
SOLD EVERYWH ERE.
Made by the Manufacturer* of the Celebrated
-MELTONIAN” BOOT POLISHES.
E. BROWN & SON, Ltd., LONDON, Eng.
Cannot beequalled
for renovatinß all
kinds of Glace Kid
Boots and Shoes.
For all kindk of
Brown Leather
Boot* «fc Shoe*.
mHE Australian Magazine. THE LONE
JL HAND, the National Monthly. Price 6d.
■‘LINSEED COMPOUND” for Coughs and
Colds. Loosens phlegm. Allays irritation.
Valuable alike
for
the
Invalid and Robust
A Complete Milk and Farinaceous Food.
Easy of Digestion, Most Agreeable to take, Simply and Quickly made.
The ‘Allenburys’ Diet is recommended for general use in place of ordinary milk foods, gruel, etc. and is
particularly adapted to the needs of Dyspeptics, Invalids and the Aged. Being largely predigested it is
easy of assimilation. A cup of the ‘Allenburys’ Diet is useful in the forenoon, between meals.
The ‘Allenburys’ Diet may be taken with advantage, on going to bed, in the place of stimulants.
Being easily digested it promotes tranquil and
refreshing sleep, free from the depressing re-
action ir the morning, which often follows
the taking of spirits.
For those who cannot readily digest milk the
‘Allenburys’ Diet is a welcome substitute, as it
does not cause indigestion and flatulence.
Allen & Hanburys Ltd., London, Eng.,
and MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
gjg
j
ĵg
Hi
tfk LCU77* vtKliv
m.
(tr
f»Misos c
*1
£3
'-eso N ev
7\
Gfl
?af.'k
1
.A 1
fSjiU
r
vafe»s<
NCW
V
S* UN
&S
’
Pit
iniifWa(utnut
m
vumrnn
r\ T
W^wMi
Mi
/O
•‘Ten thousand minds with but a single thought,
Ten thousand tongues that speak as one.”
Tyres for my car.”
"All the Leading Garages.
WARNING. —Don’t buy Michelin Tyres at
less than current prices. They may
be of old manufacture. Purchase only
from our Agents.
UNDER VICE-REGAL
j
PATRONAGE
The Misses Isaacs,
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair-
workers & Dermatologists,
161 KING STREET, SYDNEY, between Elizabeth & Castlereagh Streets.
Transformations from £4/4/. Tails from 7/6. Puffs from 26/- set. Fringes from 7/6.
Telephone 213 S Central. COMBINGS MADE UP.
Country orders receive prompt attention.
JASON
Unshrinkable
HOSIERY.
THE LOHE HAND
THE AUSTRALIAN MAGAZINE.
A monthly guide for everything Australian.
gj


CLEAR
TESSIN
s'
fh
With
CUTICUM
SOAP
And Cuticura Ointment.
No other emollients do so
much to dispel pimples,
blackheads, redness,
roughness and other annoy-
ing conditions of the com-
plexion, hands and hair
Sold everywhere. Send for free book on the
skin to R. Towns & Co.. Sydney. N. S. W.
9
fgjg
Heji Youth.
UKD.AfcLENJ
ll.y C U.5.A)
Mexican
WALNUT 3TAIN
for Grey Hair
IS THE
only permanent and really satisfactory
ONE SOLUTION Hair Stain
ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES
j
OSTRICH TIPS
From South Africa.
3 for 10/-
| Black, White,
Cream, Natural, or
Black tipped with
White.
(Length, 10 inches.) Post
Free to any address.
Worth twice the money. Write
to-day. Send Postal Notes.
Catalogues Free.
MILLER'S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY; also at
Corner of BOurkeand Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention Thk Bulletin.] [5
Pr. E.G. LE6ERERSON
formerly hon. physician Auckland and Broken Hill
general hospitals.
Also of Collins Sireet., Melbourne ; Macquarie Street,
Sydney ; and Hay Street, Berth,
His Resumed Practice at 30 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Consultation Hours
11.30 to 12.3), 6.45 to 7.45 p.m
SPECIALTY 606.
Tel. 453.
WHENEVER you see a bear with a Con-
tinent on bis back, think of THE LONE
HAND. It’s swag is a Continent.
“LINSEED COMPOUND” for Coughs and
Colds. Of proven efficacy for chest complaints.
gjgj
WHOLESALE:
R. Reid & Co., Ltd.
Sargood Bros.
Alcock Bros., Ltd.
Petersen, Boesen
& Co., Ltd.
Etc.
RETAIL:
Everywhere, at 6d.
per tin—Black, Tan,
and Ox-blood.
gj
FOR UNDERWEAR COMFORT
Wolsey Pure Wool Underwear keeps the warmth in and the
cold out; it maintains the body at an equable temperature;
it absorbs perspiration and keeps mischievous chills at
bay. Its splendid softness and elasticity, its perfect fit, its
freedom from chafing seams, all make for unrivalled comfort.
Wear Wolsey garments next
your skin by night and day
and note the splendid differ-
ence Wolsey makes, not only
to your comfort, but to health
GUARANTE E D
UNSHRINKABLE
PURE WOOL
selected by experts
for its durability
and sound quality.
Wolsey Pure Wool Under
wear is made for seivio ,
its skilful shaping and splen-
did workmanship conduce
to your entire satisfaction
REPLACED IF
IT SHRINKS
Wolsey Pure Wool Unshrinkable Underwear is sold everywhere in a wide variety
of garments, and in many, weights, sizes and qualities, for men, women, and children.
ICILMA
Dry SHAMPOO
POWDER.
TWO SHAMPOOS FOR THREEPENCE.
LADIES !
When your hair gets dirty and greasy,
And the winds are cold arid breezy,
There's a SHAMPOO DRY
That you should try
Called “ICILMA" —it's efficient and easy.
NO
WATER
AT ALL
NEEDED
USE
DRY
3d.
PER
PACKET.
AH Chemists and Storekeepers, or post free from
ICILMA DEPOT,
(DEPT. D),
139 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
COUGHS
gj
Colds, Asthma, Bronchitis and
Lung troubles quickly cured by
POWELLS
BALSAM
OF
ANISEED
Of Ml Stores
and Chemists,
BMSAM OPjjj.
%
'■ftADE mar* 1 *
gj
Wholesale Agents for Victorias DUERDEN & SA IN SB UR Y, Melbourne.
MEDLOW BATH, Blue Mountains, N.S.W.
MAJESTIC HOTEL.
COMPLETE arrangements have been made by the new proprietor (Mr. W. H. Burgess), late of the Grand
Hotel, Melbourne, for the comfort of visitors during: the forthcoming- season.
Medlow Bath is an ideal resort. The crisp mountain air is a delight, and the mountains, in their
Spring g-arb, appeal to lovers of the picturesque. Arrangements can be made at the Hotel for motors,
carriages and riding tours.
Motor parties can be arranged any time to start from the City Office—or your own residence—direct
to the Majestic Hotel.
To pedestrians Medlow offers ever-varying attractions. The views in the mountains are superb, and
hours can be spent in walks through the Hotel grounds.
Hot-air pipes are laid in many rooms. Daily Motor trips are made from the Hotel to Jenolan Caves.
Further particulars can be obtained from the Hotel, or from the Sydney Offices, 42 Oastlereagh Street.
W. H. BURGESS, Proprietor.
*
FOOD
is for Infants and Invalids
and for those whose digestive
•11 P owers have become weakened by
illness or advancing age.
If the digestive functions, however weak, can do
any work at all they should be given work to do to the
extent of their powers. In the easy process of its prepara-
tion the digestibility of Benger s can be regulated to give
this work with extreme nicety.
The British Medical Journal” says—“Benger’s Food
has, by its excellence established a reputation of its own.”
tBENGER S FOOD. LTD., Otter Works, Manchester, England.
Bengers Food is sold in tins by Druggists, etc., everywhere.
823
The Inky Way.
C. : Ever live in a boarding-house? Yes? No?
lhen note these facts about the morning paper. I
can always tell who has had it before me. Jones
buys mining-shares, and eats porridge for breakfast;
hence there is a sticky lump of pale, brownish matter
fastening the Day’s Quotations to the racing news
opposite, where Smith, a dirty devotee of gravy, has
left an umber splash. Johnson eats no sugar, so
props the paper _ against the sugar-bowl, and all that
happens with him is that the folded corner sticks
into the butter-dish. Wilkins is a fresh-food fiend;
his contribution is a grape-skin or some orange-
juice. The sooty mark on the Lost-and-Found
column is where the housemaid first picked the paper
up. After half a dozen breakfasts have been eaten
opposite the newspaper, it advertises both one-and-
twopenny tea and one-and-fourpenny coffee. I come
last downstairs, and find the rag full of nourishment
lor bodj r and mind. Yesterday’s paper can never be
discovered in our establishment. I know. They make
soup out of it.
* * *
The South Aus. Register completed its 75th year
last month. Its first number was printed in London,
and was issued on “Waterloo Day,” before any emi-
grant had started for S. Aus., though the pioneer
. buffalo was ready to sail. The second number
didnt arrive till a year later; then, up to June,
1838, the paper was a weekly; from 1839 to 1843
bi-weekly; and in 1850 it became a daily, under
■John Stephens. Shortly afterwards it was sold to
Anthony Forster, E. W. Andrews, W. I£. Thomas and
Joseph Fisher. The Thomas family has always been
interested in it; the present Thomas partner is the
youngest son of the original W. K. Thomas. Sowden,
now the senior member of the firm, entered the office
as _ a reporter, after serving his apprenticeship as a
printer in a country office.
* * * *
“Derwent”: The Hobart Writers and Artists’ Union
coHided with the Unexpected the other day, and had
its faith shattered. . Having drawn up a log to pro-
vhlo for an increase in wages, the union presented it
“the local Labor paper, a large share of which is
held by Labor organisations, and waited for the
directors glad approval. But instead of showing
satisfaction at this desire of the writers to obtain the
living wage which the paper publicly barracks for,
the directors assaulted the proposal with collective
disapproval. The adoption of the log would have
meant about £9 extra on the wage sheet, but the
directors said they wouldn’t go more than £2. This
offer so overcame the union that it murmured “Give
it to the poor,” and collapsed on the door-mat.
“T.J.M.” Be type-setting “whips” (B. 29/6/’ll).
the Australasian record was made by Bob Mans-
field, of the Argus, in a match against George Ven-
ables, of the Evening Standard, on June 24, 1893.
It took place in the Printers’ Club in Swanston-
street, was for two hours, minion type, 13 ems
measure, MS. copy, and they had ' their matter
dropped for them. George Naunton (overseer at
Stillwell’s) was judge, Harry Clarke (printer of
the Age) referee, and O. W. Skeeles (Government
Printing Office) reader. The judge’s certificate
reads: —
No. of Gross No. No. o'Eis Net No.
Name. Lines. of Ens. deducted, oi Ens.
1. R. Mansfield.. 158 6-44 6958 35 6923
2. G. Venables ..154 9-44 6785 27 6758
If Jack Reidy, of Yass, can beat that (which his
22 inches of long primer in lhr. 55min. does not)
he is slick.
* * * *
Hobart Mercury’s ancient and amiable steers-
man, H. R. Nicholls, was the other day accorded a
“reception” by a few score friends at Hobart Town
Hall, and a number of eminent Tories fired streams
of dreadful oratory at the harmless old man. He
will be 82 next January, has been 28 years editor
of the dullest daily paper on earth, and has been
over half a century toiling as a journalist. Up till
a dozen years ago he wrote leading articles in a
fairly vigorous Tory manner ; but whatever of fight-
ing quality the old Mercury possesses these days
may be attributed to associate-editor Broinowsld, who
is considerably less than 82 in the shade, though the
political opinions he expresses are at least old enougn
to have earned a pension.
* * * *
“Orient”: I would imagine Morrison, the Aus-
tralian, to be the writer of a striking article in the
last London Times to arrive. He has just returned
from a long stay in “the East.” Whirled along in
London’s roaring tides, dazed both with luxury and
poverty, he seemed in a dream. Then, prompted
by the Coronation fanfare and tinsel, he asked him-
self whether the English are not dreamers. Strident
newspapers, he finds, are full of outcry that seems
naught to a man from Asia. Everywhere he meets
the curious delusion that there is some inexhaustible
mine of hidden national wealth. Then he looks to
“the East,” sees forests of smoking factory chimneys,
owned and managed by brown men, with swarms of
workers, who toil 12 or 14 hours a day for a few
coppers; vast arsenals, where are made all weapons,
from giant cannon to rifles, without even white super-
vision ; battleships, made, manned, controlled, and
fought without any help from the white; the loco-
motive piercing jungles, crossing chasms, speeding
over vast distances, oinding Asia in a network of
steel rails. The mind is bewildered in estimating
the industrial development of China, Japan and
India. What will become of English markets? Asia
has leaders with brains more subtle, and wills more
tenacious than the English; and more than eight
hundred million people who have watched the whites
overrun their territories for 300 years. To-day they
are being quickened into a new spirit of resistance.
England it is that dreams on, not Asia. To fling
this into the Coronation vortex was the most notable
achievement of the Times during the bewildering
season. It does me good to think the eye that saw
and the hand that wrote were those of my country-
man.
* * * *
Announced for early publication in London, two
vols. on the “Benedictine Pioneers in Australia,”
by the Rev. 11. Norbert Birt, 0.5.8., largely based
on hitherto unpublished diaries and correspondence
of Dr. Ullathorne, first Vicar-General of Australia;
Dr. Folding, first Archbishop of Sydney; and Dr’.
Davis, first Bishop of Maitland—all three members ;
of the English Benedictine order. There ought to be
interesting stuff in it. Dr. Ullathorne, after refus-
ing Melbourne, Adelaide and Hobart, became the I
first Bishop of Birmingham, and ruled there for '
half a century or so.
SOME RANDOM REFLECTIONS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The thunder-stealing M.H.R.;
The greedy, limelight-grabbing star;
The frigid wretch, without a soul,
Who coidly jumps his neighbors pole;
The charitable cat, with claws,
Who steals the other cat’s applause—
In fact, the whole bang lot that rage
To get the centre of the stage,
Are hated by all quiet men
W'ho trot to work to drive a pen,
And then go trotting home again
To lurk in some suburban den.
Publicity no charm has got
For him who mows a garden plot;
Ilis prayer to ev’rv writing-man
Is “Keep my name out if you can.”
Or else —behind his glossy hat —•
“Now mind! Don’t say 1 told you that!”
Yet he, with pleasure in the dawn
Picks up his paper from the lawn
To read about the folk who rage
And claim the centre of the stage.
Anti who, to get a quarter-page,
Will in stupendous feats engage.
The reader, in the scornful eyes
Of him who needs must advertise,
Is but a grave suburban goat
Who dwells within a waste remote,
And eats his paper with the rest
Of other things he can’t digest.
The advertiser says “Alas!
His ignorance indeed is crass!
Yet, as he matters in the mass,
Here! feed yourself on me, you ass!”
The motives two of this select
And silly world appear to be:
(One) Universal Disrespect;
(Two) Raging Curiosity.
N.S.W.
THE INSOLVENT SAGE.


.
: !
■
' ■*-** *«r ■*■ v**;^
.
rW, oh a
■ -
;=
■
SS
• r .. ■ v ■'■■=•.
■ ■ ■■ ■•' *
"" . ■ .
s? mwMm
-■
%
'■
Wx.
fIM; '
W
««
mm u
.: ■ M
:
- :
'
'O*V- ‘ • *>" 'K
- ■ ,
£«£•«*' * •■' .
m
*NS*s.
- :
Iglgiy * i '.r rr f
[
v‘. f
, ; *
■ S 7 :
’ ‘“'i
%
.' -1
mm
®B\
BKSm
r ’
‘s&Avfs Vv -
V
fcr:
%
*
&
s
:
V
t V
r -■
£
\
■■. / *
Iff . |
fif
£i
h
Mm
MS
u
■ S
N
/
mmsse
ip
'
V ~.'
’ ■*■; ■■' - • :
. -j
i
m
jm
il
~ _r "
13
:
g
.iv*
<JSr«Sa=S4W
|i
Mii€v
&
X
>?-
V,. ‘ *
r*
% *
< «**- •- * ■ —»-.
I rff
I |ft
L-.«..■•'■•••'
.
.
.
V'WMW**w *>' -
■
• ■
»
srgfe!^s : ,*’
t 1 ■ ■■ ■ * s-:
% , i**..**%:■■-■.
f #
■
v I
<- .
rm
st&
mm
■»’ f
Jtx,
QUEENSLAND,
Australia’s Winter Paradise.
Exquisite and Enthralling Scenery. Mild and Bracing Climate.
Par excellence the trip, for which, at this time of the year, the Commonwealth offers no better.
DURING the Winter months no more enjoyable trip can be taken than along the picturesque
eastern seaboard, through the exquisite Whitsunday Passage and Hinchinbrook Channel.
These scenes of tropical beauty are unsurpassed in the World.
The ATHERTON and HERBERTON TABLELANDS, 2000 to 3000 feet above sea-
level, possess a bracing climate, rich soil, tropical vegetation, and scrubs full cf magnificent timber.
The BARRON FALLS and the TULLY FALLS have no equal in Australia.
In Central Queensland, Tourists have an opportunity of visiting MOUNT MORGAN,
near Rockhampton. This great mine—a mountain of gold—has paid over £7,500,000 in dividends.
The famous DARLING DOWNS, in Southern Queensland, can be reached by train
from Brisbane in four hours.
Full particulars and handbooks can be obtained on personal application, or by letter to
The Director, Intelligence & Tourist Bureau,
Corner of Queen & George Streets, BRISBANE .
SYDNEY Branch Office at 116 Pitt Street
A. MESTON\ Local Director.


Shipping.
P. and O. BRANCH SERVICE
For DURBAN, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
* Twin-screw
SALOON ACCOMMODATION, AMIDSHIPS,
CONVERTED INTO VERY SUPERIOR
ONE CLASS.
LONDON £l6, £lB and £2O.
CAPETOWN and NATAL £l3 135., £l5 15s. and £l7 17s.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD., 7 Bent St
Mki.homunk Agknts : .10IIN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Aoknts : GEO. WILLS & CO.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAND.
Kitted with Wireless Telegraphy. New and luxurious
12,000-ton Steamers. Cabines-de-luxe ; State-rooms, with
bedsteads; Single Berth Rooms, Private Bathrooms;
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Sailing every fortnight from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Eta.,
l2 Martin Place, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Bank of ||orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director :
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 4 QUEEN VICTORIA STREET, E.C.
Manager: R. R. LOVE.
Bankers : THE LONDON COUNTY & WESTMINSTER
BANK LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Bank of |) e|U Zealand-
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
Total Capital Paid-up £2,000,000
Uncalled Capital £500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits £1,034,405
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
THE
Australian Bank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL - - - £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,197,127
PAID-UP (31st December, 1910) - - £1.145,933
HEAD OFFICE—George and King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE—2 King William Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS—Sir William P. Manning, lit., Chairman ;
George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D.; Ciias. H. Myles, Esq. ;
Mark Sheldon, Esq. ; Arthur S. Barton, Esq.; Frank
N. Yarwood, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian C nnmonwealth,
New Zealand, and all ttie principal towns of the world.
A. P. STEWART, General Manager.
The .. .
Queensland National Bank,
Limited
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 413,484 8 10
Reserve (in Gov. Stock) 94,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock . 3,091,669 4 5
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
Directors: JAS. MILNE, Esq., Chairman; JAMES
MUNRO, Esq. ; Hon. A. J. CALLAN, Esq., M.L.C. ;
JOHN CAMERON, Esq. ; F. LORD, Esq.
General Manager—W. V. RALSTON.
Branches—London, Sydney & throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. .. £519,237 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. .. 161,384 0 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) .. 75,500 0 0
£756,121 0 0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE.
Gen. Mrigr.: Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London,
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
The Colonial Mutual Oife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and
Annuities without Mutual Liability ; also
Accident and Sickness Assurance.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds. £3,219,446.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £5,300,000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitahlv distributed.
Chief Office for New South Walks :
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hor. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruck Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Shipping.
REDUCED FARES
To EUROPE
BT
N ord 33 eutscher Lloyd.
PASSENGERS hooked to Egypt, Naples,
Genoa, Algiers, Marseilles, Gibraltar,
London, Antwerp, and Bremen.
w Fitted with “ Wireless” installation.
* Fitted with Gymnasium.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
REGULAR FOUR-WEEKLY MAIL
SERVICE from Sydney and Brisbane, via
New Guinea, by Twin-screw Steamers.
For Passage and Full Particulars apply to—
LOHMANN & CO., General Agents,
7 & 9 Bridge Street, Sydney ;
OSTERMEYER DEWEZ & VAN ROMPACY, Melbourne ;
H. MUECKE & 00., Adelaide;
L. RATAZZI & CO., Perth and Fremantle ;
THOS. BROWN & SONS, Ltd., Brisbane and Townsville.
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS—New
Series. IV., V.. VI. Packet of Twelve,
6d. ; Packet of Ten, sd. Forwarded Post Free
to any address.
TH€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth and
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
o Fitted Wireless Telegraphy,
t New Steamer. r Not taking- Passengers.
FARES— Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. ... From £57 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Special Return Tickets available for outward passage
by Orient Line—£ll2 (First-class each way) ; £B5
(Second-class Orient.).
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 I Os.
SALOON Cabins on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
DALCETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN,PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
ĵ
Twin-screw Steamers.
AFRICf 12,000 tons, to sail about
August 2.
SUEV/C, 12,500 tons, to sail about
August 30.
PERSIC, RUNIC and MEDIC to follow.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy and
Submarine Signalling Apparatus.
Only One Class of Accommodation.
FARKS —Capetown or Dur ban £l5 15 0 to £24 S 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
Melbourne 1 10 0
New York, Boston, Quebec,
Montreal, &c. from 25 0 0
Pamphlets and all other information on application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing,
DALGETY & COMPANY, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
YOUR WINTER
HOLIDAY.
OEND for our Booklet, “Papua and the
Pacific Islands, How to visit them ? ”
describing many delightful Island trips from
;£io upwards. Most attractive as Winter
Holiday Cruises.
r
■z&'A
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., 11 Bridge St., Sydney.
sdfsdf
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
HEAD OFFICE: MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
MONEY TO
LEND
To Farmers and Settlers from £5O to £2OOO,
repayable by instalments extending- over 30 years
with right to repay loan without penalty.
Partial repayments on fa\orable terms.
Low rates of interest.
Valuation Fees on lowest scale.
On Investment up to £25,C00 for fixed terms not
excesdin'trfive years on Freeholds or Certificated C.P’s.
and Associated 0.1/s. Interest payable half-yearly.
Right to repay one-fifth of principal each year
allowed.
Lowest current rates of interest.
Full particulars and forms of application for loans obtainable at any Branch or Post
Grown hand- Agents and at the Head Office, MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
Office Agency, or front
J. 11. Davjks. Secretary.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
jflßt
£2,913,820
£1,950,000
£2,913,820
£7,7 77,640
DIRECTORS:
The Hon. C. K. MacKellar, M.L.C., President.
Senator The Hon. Janies Thomas Walker.
The Hon. Reginald Janies Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Backhand, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Nonnand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.C.
Auditors: Alfred George Milson, Esq. ; William Harrington Palmer, Esq.
Head Office—George St., Sydney. London Office—64 Old Broad St., E.C.
With 330 Branches in all the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji and Papua (New South Wales 165, Victoria 38,
Queensland 49, South Australia 5, West Australia 11, New Zealand 54, Tasmania, Fiji 3, Papua 2,
London 1); and Agents and Correspondents throughout the United Kingdom, Europe, India, China, Japan,
and the East, Africa, Canada, the United States, South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
Cable remittances made to, and Drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills negotiated and
collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney , Limited.
Capital Paid-up £1,500,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 1,420,000 0 0
Reserve Capital 1,500,000 0 u
£4,420,000 0 0
DIRECTORS :
George J. Cohen, Esq. . . .. Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Rater, M.L.C Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C. A. J. Onslow Thompson, Esq.
Hon. James Borns, M.L.C.
Auditors : E. S. Cape, Esq., and F. W. Hixson, Esq.
General Manager: T. A. Dibbs.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
H. H. Massif,.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
Manager : A. J. Soutar.
Accountant: VV. R. Sayers.
Secretary: M. S. Grant.
Branch Accountant: J. Clayton.
Inspectors:
VV. C. B. Tilby, W. H. Pinhey.
London Office: 18 Bircliin - Lane.
Directors : F. H. Dangar, Esq. ; Hon. 11. S. Littleton ;
N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manager, F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
The METROPOLITAN
ACCIDENT, FIRE
and GENERAL
INSURANCE COMPANY, LIMITED.
THE CO-OPERATIVE FIRE OFFICE.
Shares Issued to Contributors of Business.
When Your Premium is Due Get Full Particulars.
HEAD OFFICE: 30 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
BRANCHES: Victoria, S. Aus., Queensland.
‘ COAGrULINE,’ ‘ KLINX,’ ‘TENASITINE’
•Cements for breakages, manufacturing- purposes, eto.
THE OCEAN
Accident & Guarantee
Corporation Limited,
Ocean House, 22 Moore Street, Sydney.
Fire, accident, workmen’s com-
pensation, PUBLIC RISK, BUR-
GLARY and PLATE GLASS INSURANCES
at Lowest Rates.
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.,
FOR
Ordinary 8 Industrial Life Assurance.
Directors:
H. Montgomerie Hamilton, Esq., Chairman.
Victor E. Ludlow, Esq., L.K.C.5.1., L.K.Q.C.P.I.
Claude Manning, Esq.
John F. Ure, Esq.
Ceneral Manager: J. A. Henderson.
Secretary: Consulting Actuary:
Freeman J. Eaton. W. R. Day, F.I.A.
Head Office:
30 CASTLEREACH ST. (facing Moore St.), SYDNEY.
Queensland: Victoria:
Metropolitan Buildings, 43 Queen St.,
Adelaide St., Brisbane. Melbourne.
The “Metropolitan" always has vacancies on its
Agency Staff for reliable and trustworthy men.
“LINSEED COMPOUND” of 40 years’ proven
efficacy, for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis, etc.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP GO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE co and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports*
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
FREMANTLE.
Transhippinsr at Fremantle
t.o all North Western Ports
GERALDTON (W.A.)
S.S. Ooolg-ardie, July 25.
S.S. Koombana. August 1
(To Fremantle direct,
thence to all North-
west Ports, without
transhipment).
BRISBANE
HACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Pom Norfh fco Cairns.
S.S. Innamincka, July 15.
S.S. Marloo, July 22.
S. S. Gran tala, J uly 29 (fitted
Wireless Telegraphy).
Best and Cheapest Route to Goldfields .
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, ■vhich can be ascertained
on application at the Company's Office.
G. S. YU ILL 8c CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
To VANCOUVER, via AUCKLAND
(N.Z.), FIJI, and HONOLULU,
thence by Rail to any part of
CANADA or UNITED STATES.
The Best Route to Europe.
SAILINGS :
And every 28 days thereafter.
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Illustrated Pamphlets Free on Application.
Agents throughout Canada, United States
and Europe—Canadian Pacific, Railway Co.
For full particulars apply— t
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 Sydney.
F.—H.=V
Federal-Houlder-Shire Lines.
STEAM TO LONDON
Via SUEZ CANAL.
T.S.S. “SOMERSET,”
11,400 Tons. B. G. Hayward, Commander.
Will be despatched from BRISBANE about 20th July
„ „ „ SYDNEY „ Ist Aug.
„ „ „ MELBOURNE „ sth Aug.
~ ~ ~ ADELAIDE ~ Bth Aug.
The saloon accommodation consists of all two-berth
cabins on the upper deck, situated amidships.
The superior third-class accommodation, comprised of
two, four and eight-berth cabins, situated on the main
deck, amidships, with dining room on the upper deck.
Well lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious decks.
Third-class passengers supplied with fresh provisions
from cool chamber throughout the voyage. Surgeon and
Stewardess carried. Electric light throughout. Return
and Round Trip tickets issued via Cape and (or) Suez
routes. Prepaid passages arranged.
Saloon. Third Class. *
FARES .. .. £49 10s. £l3 13s. £l5 15s. £l7 17s.
Steerage fares from Brisbane One Guinea extra.
To be followed at regular four-weekly intervals by fast
twin-screw passenger steamers. For further information,
illustrated hooks, pamphlets, etc., apply to
BIRT & CO., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane;
H. JONES & CO.. Ltd., Hobart;
MoILWRAITH, McEAOHARN & Co., Ltd., Melbourne;
ELDER, SMITH & Co., Ltd.. Adelaide.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 C
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £40,000 0 0
Dirkctors : It. Murray Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Chairman ;
John Grice, Esq., Vice-Chairman ; Hon J. M. Pratt; J. H.
MacFarland, Esq., M.A., LL.D. ; Alexander M‘Cracken.
JAMES BOHROvVMAN, Manager.
FItEDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
00
rsin
&
"EORGE HOTEL,
St. Kilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
Millars’ Karri 8 Jarrak
Co. (1902), Ltd.
We Supply—
JARRAH Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’ Scant=
ling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
72 BISHOPSGATE STREET WITHIN,
LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIG.
6S i PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
“ FTIHE Australian thinks in Continents,because
JL he is the only man who has a Continent
to think in.” THE LONE HANI) is the only
Magazine that caters for a Continent.


or
L
■
No. 3a Folding Pocket
Kodak Q O / -
The No. 3a. Folding Pocket Kodak is superior tc
all other folding hand Cameras. Takes the full-
size postcard picture, x Works in day-
light all the way. Provided with every feature for
the most serious work, yet so simple as to be effec-
tively handled by a novice.
Equipment includes double rapid rectilinear lens,
Kodak automatic shutter, automatic focussing locir
brilliant reversible finder and tripod sockets. Price,
Brownie Cameras from 5/-. Regular Kodak
Cameras from 26/-. All Kodak supplies at Eng-
lish list prices. Ask the Kodak dealer nearest you
for further details, or write us direct for a free
copy of our new 400-page Catalogue.
Austral
Printing'
Papers
Pearl Argentic,
Velvet Pearl and
Nepera Gaslight.
AUSTRAL PEARL ARGENTIC is a Platino
Matte Surface Bromide Paper giving soft platino-
type effects. It is easily manipulated, and can
be toned to a beautiful sepia or brown tone. The
most popular studio paper in Australia.
AUSTRAL STAR is a glossy surface paper, giv-
ing clear and beautiful half-tones with rich
shadows. Can be toned with ease.
AUSTRAL VELVET PEARL BROMIDE
PAPER has an exquisite semi-matte velvety sur-
face, yielding in appearance the texture of a carbon
print. Gives perfect details in the half-tones with-
out sacrificing the shadows.
AUSTRAL NEPERA GASLIGHT PAPER
gives good prints from all negatives—clear whites
and velvety blacks is easy to use, requires no
dark-room, and is a splendid medium for home
printing in the evenings.
All the above papers are obtainable in packets
at popular prices from all dealers.
austral
STANDARD
DRY PLATES
AUSTRAL STANDARD PLATES are of very
ne grain, possess good density, and give negatives
that combine brilliance with softness. They are
fresher than those imported, and afford extreme
latitude in exposure, with freedom from fog
Avadable in all sizes, in three speeds—Rapid,
Extra Rapid and Special Sensitive. Free sample
packets available at all dealers.
£270
in
Prizes.
Austral Standard Plate
Prize Competition.
This is the most important photographic compe-
tition ever held in Australia. Everybody using
Austial Standard Dry Plates is eligible to compete
and the prizes are really worth while.
Class A is for professional studio pictures only,
for which the first prize is £5O, second prize £2O,
third prize £lO, and there are other prizes to the
amount of £2O, making a total of £lOO.
Class B is for amateurs only, and the prizes are
the same as for Class A.
Class C. is for junior photographers. The first
prize is £25, and there are other prizes to the same
amount, making a total of £5O.
Class D is for professional outdoor and press
photographers, in which the total amount to be
awarded is £2O.
Conditions of the competition, etc., are obtainable
from all Kodak agents, or direct from any of our
branches.
KODAK (Australasia) LTD
Incorporating Baker
& Rouse Prop. Ltd.,
379 George St., Sydney.
78=80 Queen St., Brisbane. Ruthven
“ The Block,”
St., Toowoomba. Flinders
284 Collins St., Melbourne. 37 Rundle St., Adelaide.
St., Townsville. 3<frt Argent St., Broken Hill. 6 Mercer St., Wellington, N.Z.
J4925—15ct. Gold, Pearl and Bine Tour-
m.dine set Pendant, £2/2/-
qnoise set, Iset. Gold
Pendant, 70/-
C4l7B—lsct. Gold (Palm Leaf) Brooch
Pendant, set with Pink and Green
Tourmalines and Fine White Pearls,
£7/10/-
Fullest Value —Finest Quality.
The purchasing power of ten large establishments is greater than
that of one. There are ten large Stewart Dawson establishments in
different parts of the world, the buying for which is controlled in
London. When you come to compare our prices with other prices,
carefully keeping in mind the quality and merit of design, the inevitable
conclusion you arrive at is the superiority in value and quality of all
“Treasure House” goods. Send for our Illustrated Catalogue.
J4lB—Fine Diamond,
Pearl and Olivine
Pendant, £lB/10/-
J323l—9ct. Gold Pen-
d.uit, set Amethyst,
Green Tourmalines
and Pearls, 25/-
H2o79—9ct. Gold Plain Band Bangle, £1 7s. 6d. Others
from 21/- to 40/-
The “ Britannic” Expanding Watch Bracelet, 9et. Gold, with/
fine Lever Movement, £B/10/- 15ct. Gold ditto, £l2/10/-
15ct. Gold, Pearl set, £lB/10/-
CsSBl—lsct. Gold and Turquoise set Bangle, £6/15/-
Ditto, 9ct. Gold, £5.
Stewart Dawson 8 Co.
(Australia),
Strand Corner, 412 QEORQE STREET, SYDNEY.
J46S3—9ct. Gold, Pearl and Amethyst set
Necklet, £2/10/-
J299s—Fine Aquamarine
and Pearl set, 15ct. Gold
Pendant, £3/10/.


ĝj
Catarrh of
the Stomach.
25 O'Grady Street, Albert Park, Vic.
Dear Sirs, —I was suffering from catarrh of the stomach for a period of
over lour months and lost 16 lb. in weight. I used to have severe pains in
the stomach after meals and mouthfuls cf water would come up and
Ico uld only get relief when the food itself came up. I decided to try Angier’s
Emulsion, and the first week after I began taking it I gained 4 lb., and soon
went up to my usual weight. lam now able to eat my food without fear of
the awful pains, and shall always feel most grateful for the relief I have
gained from the Emulsion. (Signed) T. LOVELL.
ANgier#mulsioN
Angier’s Emulsion soothes the mucous membrane of the stomach and intestines,
arrests fermentation, and promotes normal, healthy action of the bowels. It is a
splendid tonic to appetite and digestion, and it builds up health and strength.
Doctors prescribe it for chronic indigestion, nervous dyspepsia, stomach and intestinal
catarrh, etc. It has cured many obscure and obstinate cases. Of all Chemists,
1/3, 2/9 and 4/6.
A FREE SAMPLE
sent on receipt of 4d. postage. Mention this paper.
THE ANGIER CHEMICAL CO., Ltd., 7. Barrack St., Sydney.
fgj
gj
gj
Never hesitate about giving Chamberlain’s Cough
Remedy to children. It contains no narcotic of any
description, and can be given with confidence. As a
quick cure for coughs and colds, to which children
are susceptible, it is unsurpassed.*
“Man wants little here below, but that
little he wants good,” it is said. Messrs.
PIKE BROTHERS LIMITED, of Bris-
bane, until just recently catered for him ex-
clusively, and to their credit, be it said,
that they did it well. They are now alive to
the fact that the womenfolk are also worthy
of consideration. Pike Brothers’ New
Showrooms are indeed a veritable dream
of loveliness. The new summer creations
recently imported threaten to out-do any-
thing previously considered worthy.*
/
1*
6
$0
Ready-
to-Wear
or
Made-
to-Order,
7/6
THESE PYJAMA SUITS are made of
Osman Flannelette. They are well
and comfortably cut, and are made
in our own electrically-equipped workrooms.
We have a fine stock in all sizes, but if
you send your measurements we ll make
yours to order.
At the same price ? Yes, sir !
Send for a couple of Suits and test the
Finney Service. For clothing needs “you
can't beat Finney’s.”
Finney, Isles 8 Co.
LIMITED,
T m„cK. s BRISBANE.
IN BANANA LAND
Minister for Railways Paget takes liis
fairl.v-frequent job of digging the first sods
in connection with new railway lines very
seriously. He has a pick, shovel and wheel-
barrow specially for the business. The
turn-out may come in handy soon for bury-
ing the Denham Ministry.
Garden Point, in the Brisbane River,
very troublesome to navigation and a big
source of anxiety in time of flood, is to be
bitten off at last. It will take a big slice
from the Brisbane Botanic Gardens; but
the Government proposes to hand over a
niece of the University Domain to make up
for the loss.
The cattiest fight of the coming session
will be over the Liquor Bill. Both parties
contain a Wowser brigade and a Bung fac-
tion, and the voting on this measure will be
a lovely exhibition. If the Bill be as radi-
cal as the Premier has hinted, it may be
safely prophesied that the nominee Legisla-
tive Council (where Beer is potent) will
murder it. to the infinite relief of a half-
hearted Ministry.
A deputation of Brisbane merchants
pleaded with Digby Denham the other day
for a reduction of stamp duties. Denham
was adamant, and refused a single grain of
comfort to his brother peddlers. In 1903
one Robert Philp went down in an attempt
to introduce stamp duties less onerous than
the present ones, and, by-and-bye, Digby
Denham rose out of Philp’s ruins to office
and power. No wonder he refuses to part
with those invaluable stamp duties!
“Northern Native”: I lived on Green
Island with “Yorky,” the one-armed fisher-
man and ex-satellite of the renowned
“Bully” Hayes, and can confirm the incident
of his being dragged out of his boat and to
a three-fathom (not eight) bottom through
the iron hook on his wooden arm catching in
the anchor ring. How many know that
“Yorky” died while playing kiss-in-the-ring?
A picnic party from Cairns had crossed to
Green Island, and “Yorky” was induced to
take part in the old game, but in running
from a buxom lass his heart failed, and he
died where he had fallen. We buried him
at Cairns.
Tlie Tory Daily Mail, of Brisbane, ad-
mits that there is a great want of sym-
pathy with the Ministry among the Den-
ham crowd, and piously hopes that ‘no
quarter will be given to any attempt to
form a third party.” The Queensland Con-
servatives fear the possible rise of a third
party even more than they do the Labor-
ites. It was the existence of a third party
in the Assembly, a party that “chummed
in” with Labor, that kept Toryism for six
weary years in Opposition.
It is the daily plaint of the Conservative
Brisbane dailies that the Caucus (the
Labor One, of course) is continually usurp-
ing the functions of Parliament. _ Last
week the Courier announced that it had
been decided to place W. D. Armstrong in
the Speaker’s Chair. But the Speaker is
supposed to be elected by the whole House,
and the House had not then met. So the
charge that the Caucus (or Cabinet) has
arrogated to itself the powers of Parlia-
ment isy after all, perfectly justified.
OFF THE ICE.
“ Hullo; drinking?” “No; rinking!”
The old Barcoo, which in the long ago was
the fastest vessel in the Australian coastal
trade, but has been lying of late years in the
Garden Reach of the Brisbane River, is to
be dismantled and used as a store hulk by
the A.U.S.N. Co. She was originally owned
by the old Q.S.S. Co., the rival of the
A.S.N. Co. in the trade between Sydney and
Cooktown. When the business of the two
cos. was taken over by the newly-formed
A.U.S.N. Co., she went over with the other
property.
Died in Brisbane the other day, aged 84,
Ebenezer Hooker, one of Bananaland’s oldest
parsons. He was a draper when Dr.
Dang persuaded him to come to Australia to
study; and for a time he was in the porcu-
piny Scotchman’s Australian College in Syd
ney. There was a row, however —there mostly
was where Dr. Lang was concerned —so
Ebenezer left and went back to business, and
all the rest of his days he was gravitating
between commerce and sky-pilotage.
No Bru-tal-i-tee.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They were too well off. They had too much
luxury. ... It was said there was brutality in this
sport. There was no brutality in one manly fellow
knocking spots off another manly fellow, who was
doing his best to knock spots off him. — Madden,
C.J., opening a boxing tournament.
There’s some folks in this sad, sad world, who say
they grieve to see
A breezy bruiser land his man in all gentilitee;
But Madden, J., he rose to say that people such as
he
They find the ring the very thing to brace up you
and me ;
If I knock spots
Off Plugger Potts,
And he knocks spots off me,
There may be groans
And broken bones,
But No Bru-tal-i-tee!
And Madden, J., went on to say when manly Mauler
Bill
Lays out in style his bruising pal in straight and
manly mill,
It shows the race is making pace in sand and wind
and grit,
And if we part from fistic art our future’s in the
pit;
I may see blood
In crimson flood
Result from Plugger P.,
But on my word
It’s quite absurd
To hint Bru-tal-i-tee!
There’s too much feather-bed to-day and too much
luxuree,
We cannot biff as once we biffed when I was young,
says he ;
The manly cove who drubbed and drove till all was
black and blue —
A Noble Heart, he played his part, and not for
revenue!
If I knock spots
Off Plugger Potts,
And he knocks spots off me,
There may be groans
And broken bones —
But No Bru-tal-i-tee!
QUEENSLAND.
PLUGGER B.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, July 8, 1911.
My Dear Tiiargomindah,—
There was a social flutter here over the
arrival of the G.-G.’s Countess, who, with
the Duchess of Bedford and Walter Callan,
tripped off the Zealandia on Tuesday, and
picked a bone with the Macgregors before
saying a final “So long !” to Australia. She
went round town in the afternoon in a kilted
Shantung silk, with much braiding, and a
white beaver hat, while the accompanying
Duchess wore ivory cloth and a black head-
piece, from which hung a weirdly-figured
veil. To the semi-official lunch the Pre-
mieress, the Morgan couple and Capt. Foxton
were bidden.
Another Zealandia passenger of note, home-
ward bound, was Katherine Grey, who, with
tears in her voice, conressed to a great "imme-
longing.” She refuged for the day at the
O’Shea mansion, Toowong.
It seems as if Southport, our prettiest
watering place, is coming into its own again.
For many years a bad train service, hard
times, and one or two other little misfor-
tunes knocked it out of the running; but
nowadays anybody who is anybody goes
there. In fact, not to look in for five or six
week-ends during the year is to write one-
self down “unknown.” And it’s so eminently
respectable. Papa and mamma and the
family are there in dozens; brides and
maiden aunts abound; even Mrs. Bonsfield
holidays there with her large adopted family
of “Grammar” boys. The Other People
still trip to Sandgate and Cleveland —with
goodness knows whose husband !
An interesting ceremony at the end of this
week will be the unveiling of a memorial to
old Tom Petrie at North Pine. Gov. Mac-
gregor will pull the string and let the curtain
fall. I was speaking recently to Johnnie
Allan, an educated black brother on Mun-
doolan Station, concerning Petrie’s printed
reminiscences, and he assured me that the
description of the Bora ceremony is abso-
lutely true in detail. “I know,” said
Johnnie, “because I was through it myself,
of course, and” But thereabouts I got
Johnnie to show me how to throw a boomer-
ang.
Talking of tough old colonists reminds me
that old John McElwee, who for 50 years or
thereabouts was a manager for the John
Collins firm out on the Dawson, is still hale
and hearty, and takes his ease in the city.
His stories of cattle-rushes, of floods,
droughts and general pioneering, read like
romance, but are no doubt true to a line.
' Among the arrivals in town during the
week were Mr. and Mrs. A. W. D. White,
of Bluff Downs, en route to Sydney. The
lady, who is a sister of our own handsome
Mrs. Geo. Perry, is very good to look upon,
and, like her lord, a good sport. For their
visit, the Children’s Hospital is 50 guineas
the richer. By the way, the long-needed
isolation wards in the hospital are to be
added during the coming year, thanks to the
energy and business-like ways of Mayoress
Diddams and others, who turned in £2OO as
the result of the recent three-tier ball The
year saw 1524 little patients in the wards
while 10,828 were treated at the out-patients'’
department. So you see we want all the
help we can rake in, if the mites are to be
properly treated. Anybody can send a
cheque for a “fiver,” and feel that it may
save a small boy’s life; It’s a cheap salva-
tion at that price.
Still another engagement in the clan Col-
lins, and Mr. Douglas Harris, of the
R.A.F.A., is one of the responsible parties.
The bride-to-be is Bertha Clotilda, and
looks quite out of the ordinary. She is
the fifth daughter of 14. M. Collins, of Tam-
rookum. Her Mr. Harris was stationed in
Brisbane some time ago, and put in some
good gunnery work at the annual Tam-
bourine camp.
The homestead at Felton station, on the
Darling Downs, where millionaire Jimmy
Tyson died, has been sold to W. A. Sheii,
late of Wilton Park, Darling Downs, for
something like £20,000. The main portion
of the estate has recently been surveyed for
closer settlement.
A “tennis tea,” at which Mrs. Arthur
Feez and Mrs. Leishman were the hostesses,
happened during the week. Roses crowded
every possible table and corner; they came
from the lovely gardens over which Mrs.
William Collins is queen. By the way,
that lady and Mrs. Feez are to be hostesses
on August 11 at what promises to be the
very smartest dance of the’ season. Just
about that time carnival week will be in
full flood and ’the Pali’ful swinging on the
local tide. So we know what to expect, my
char.
Yours affectionately,
MARIO.
“Stingaree” about cane-cutting :
It is difficult to name the crack cane-cutter.
Charlie Steve’s 16 tons of trashed cane in nine
hours is a fair performance, but “Yank” Chapman’s
tally at Prosperine some seasons back was better.
“Yank” trashed, cut, and loaded six tons in nine
hours daily for three months, and the cane wasn’t
weig itier than the average. It is common for a
cutler to put up a big tally for one day, but it’s the
other thing to continue the score for a month. It’s
the loading that damages the cutter’s chance of
making big tallies.
The Anglican Mission Station at Yarra-
bah is to go under Government supervision.
Practically,.the methods adopted couldn’t find
a friend outside the interested sect; and
when Home Sec. Appel went up and saw for
himself the dripping was utterly in the fire.
The Home Sec. insists that industrial de-
velopment, which has been greatly neglected,
must be properly seen to, and the present
superintendent is to be succeeded by one to
be approved of by the Government.
“Percival Packsaddle,” from the innards
of Australia, describes the great overlanding
of bushranger “Starlight” and his friends,
mentioned in B. 15/6/’ll: —•
The cattle were supposed to have been taken from
Budgerigar down the Johnson (part of Mount Cor-
nish) by Bedford (“Starlight”), McKenzie, “Scotty
Lawson, two other whites and a half-caste. The late
Mr. Edkins was managing the place at the time, but
was away on a holiday ; the head stockman, Butler
(who afterwards managed Western Creek), was in
charge. He was out mustering stragglers, when he
noticed tracks of a fair-sized mob of cattle, with
horse tracks, and at first thought stray horses were
running with the' mob. However, he tracked on,
and followed them right into Adelaide; one stage, of
100 miles, was dry track. Near Adelaide they saw
an imported bull on a cocky’s place, and that gave
the show away. Redford was tried before Judge
Blakeley in Roma, but the jury declined to convict,
which caused the Judge to remark: “Thank God,
gentlemen, it is your verdict, not mine.” It was
many a day before another Court sat in Roma.
Redford afterwards took up Corella (Q-), and was
drowned in Corella Creek. McKenzie took up Man-
eroo. Butler, Taylor, and another man tracked them
all the way south, which was as fine a piece of work
as the big piece of droving. All this took place in
1872-’73. The story of the cattle-yards is a
“mulga.” What they did was to round up aH handy
mobs, and, whilst droving, cut off all “fats, take
them on, and drop weaners.


A Drink, a
a Dig'estive,
Tonic,
Combined.
A most fruitful cause of colds is exposure
after the body has been heated by exercise
or sitting in a warm room.
WITHOUT ALCOHOL
zfr\CAj
RMa
POHTKOI.
golP
Specially approved
and recommended
as a pure product
by the BRITISH
ANALYTICAL
CONTROL ,
A body formed to protect the
food supplies of the public of
the United Kingdom.
O.T. is quite unlike any other
beverage—it stands alone. It has
the “ life ” and “ bite ” of Spirits,
but is without Alcohol.
t,u«w
**C«S T
Sito**'
0
N U%
WHISKY
&RANOY
WlNt OR
übt
ST BElAoi
SODA *
MAKES A
WATER>
DELICIOUS
L*HON*Oe|
*• drink
ALTO TMI
BEST
SCOuO
LIQUEUR
after meals
V
JDixon&O?
mio m 5T PR»»<'AN„ ctn-i
A GREAT CURE
FOR INDIGESTION
GOLD MEDAL and
DIPLOMA,
Paris Exhibition
Internationale,
1909 -
Compared with other non-alcoholic
drinks, O.T. is well endowed
with qualities which they lack—
Character, Distinction and Bene-
ficial Effects.
SEE THAT YOU GET THIS BOTTLE.
HOW TO PROTECT YOURSELF
FROM COLDS.
After Dancing or Skating you are particularly liable to catch cold, but little
need you fear if you take the precaution of making O.T. your drink during the
evening, for this excellent beverage will protect you. The exhilarating action of
O.T. equalises the circulation and promotes warmth, and by these means safe-
guards you from becoming chilled.
Taken at once, O.T. will counteract the effects of a Chill, and drive out a cold
that may be coming on you. If you suspect you have taken cold at any time, if you
begin to feel chilly and out-of-sorts, then is the time to take O.T. Take it often,
and you will be really benefited by it. O.T. is invaluable to athletes, outdoor
workers, and to all working, travelling, or driving at night.
O.T. is derived from Fruits and Herbs recognised for their nutritive and bene-
ficial properties, and having essentials favorable for the blending of a delicious,
healthful drink. Agreeable to the palate, and distinguished for its favorable
effects on the constitution, O.T. is an everyday beverage that can be taken at all
times with ha,ppy results—it is always a safe and desirable form of refreshment for
use at Home, at the Club, at the Bar.
Having the same warming, exhilarating, and cheering effects as spirituous
liquors, but being without any intoxicating quality, O.T. is the happy medium
between a soft and a hard drink, and the nearest approach to a substitute for
alcohol that has ever been produced. Full-bodied, new, and distinctive in charac-
ter, charming in flavor, not too sweet, not gassy, its taste grows on you, and after
the first bottle you just begin to fully appreciate its deliciousness.
BEWARE OF FRAUDULENT PASSING OFF.
Refuse inferior drinks put up by unscrupulous manufacturers in
their endeavor to imitate 0.T., as these imitations do not contain the
same ingredients and have not the virtues and merits of O.T.
Insist on Getting the Genuine.
Traders who pass off other drinks as O.T. will be proceeded
against under the Commonwealth Trade Marks Act.
if unable to get Genuine O. T. in your locality
please send us the name of your trader.
CONSIDER THE BENEFITS YOU
OBTAIN FROM O.T.
In all seasons O.T. lias excellent qualities to recommend it, but for the winter
it is specially suitable, as it is the only non-alcoholic drink capable of promoting
warmth. Its stimulating effect' on a cold day improves the circulation and pro-
motes the warmth in the body necessary to ward off Colds and Chills.
Added to water (hot or cold), Lemonade, Ginger Ale, or Soda Water, O.T.
improves the flavor and forms a blend more grateful and more powerful in allaying
thirst. A dash of O.T. improves the flavor of Whisky, Schnapps, or Gin in a
remarkable manner, and lessens their intoxicating effect.
O-T. has excellent properties as a stomachic, and is of the greatest service in
promoting appetite, helping digestion and assimilation, and enabling you to obtain
the greatest benefit from the food you eat. Drink iti some form is indispensable to
the solution and digestion of food, and, because of its beneficial influence, O.T. is
without doubt one of the best Meal-time drinks. No beverage sits so agreeably on
the stomach, so refreshes the system, or forms a more grateful repast. As a liqueur
after meals O.T. is more efficacious and has more value as a digestive than many
so-called liqueurs, and, not containing alcohol, its use is specially recommended to
ladies.
O.T. has a soothing and tonic effect, and if you wake up unrefreshed in the
morning, with a furred tongue and a bad taste in the mouth, a glass of O.T. will
clear the digestion, correct the liver, and make you fit and Well again. If you
suffer from Indigestion arising from errors in diet, Fulness after meals, Flatulency
or Colic, you have an excellent remedy in O.T. On a winter’s night, to promote a
healthy glow and ensure a good night’s rest, a glass of O.T. hot is the best of night-
caps.
The enormous sale and increasing demand for O.T. throughout the World
to-day indicates to some extent its value, and proves that it is a pure and whole-
some beverage with undeniable virtues and merit.
BUY A BOTTLE AND TRY IT.
As with everything else, the practical test
of O.T. is the one to go by. You can obtain a
bottle at a small cost, and if you put it to the
test you will find O.T. will prove to be the most
delicious and beneficial drink you have ever
known.
SOLE. MAKERS of 0.T.—0.T. LIMITED, Melbourne, Sydney and London.
Distributing Agencies and Branches throughout the World.


A nasty (yugh
was cured by
SCOTT’S
Emulsion
and the weak chest was
radically strengthened. The
mother of the boy, Mrs. K.
O’Grady, 2 White Horse
Street, Sydney, N. S. W.,
writes (20th June, 10) that
her son William, 16 months
old:
Suffered jrom birth with a weak chest
and was constantly troubled
with a nasty cough that kept
him awake at night. After
trying numerous so-called
remedies without success, I
gave Scott’s Emulsion.
His cough was soon quite
cured, and he has gained so
much in weight that he does
not look like the same child.
gj
He is now perfectly healthy and strong. ”
Those who try Scott’s
Emulsion for coughs and
similar troubles, never go
back to those “so-called re-
medies” mentioned by Mrs.
O’Grady. Scott’s Emul-
sion has a world-wide re-
putation for curing coughs
and colds, and Scott’s is
the only emulsion which
has. With Scott’s you buy
CERTAINTY, and Scott’s
is the only emulsion you do
buy it with. Therefore, do
not ask for “ emulsion ”
ask for SCOTT’S Emul-
sion. ,
Of all Chemists and Dealers in Medicines.
A FAMOUS DOCTOR
testifies to the
value of
SAMOL
as a successful treatment of Rheumatism, Gout,
Sciatica, and kindred complaints.
Professor Dr. William Turk (University Lecturer
and Imperial Chief Physician, Vienna) says:—
“SAMOL. I have used Samol in my hospital in
various ailments. The ointment has been invariably
used on patients without the Slightest irritation to
the skin, and brought about excellent results, par-
ticularly in cases of severe myalgia (muscular rheu-
matism).”
No remedy sold to the public has received such
recognition from the scientific world.
Samol is sold in tubes, price Is. 6d., 3s. fid., .and
65., and can be ordered through chemists or obtained
direct from the Wholesale Agent, H. A. Goddard,
96a Eagle Street, Brisbane; or 194 Vickery’s Cham-
-bers, 82 Pitt Street, Sydney. [l-
ff
Zd w PoinCS
Inventors
Can I Obtain a Patent ?
The quickest, wav to ascertain this,
WITUOUT EXPENSE, is to write
tome describing your invention, enclosing a small sketch
where necessary. Nicety of drawing is not essential ;
all that is necessary at first is to give me YOUR IDEA.
I will at once inform you whether the idea is patent-
able, and, if so, give the neces-ary instructions for
further procedure.
! Persons desirous of obtaining really reliable advice or
information regarding Patent matters are cordially in-
vjited to consult me personally or by letter. In all cases
tv careful consideration of their plans, an honest opinion,
hd a prompt reply may be expected.
A. J. CALLINAN, Patent Attorney,
Citizens’ Buildings, Collins Street, Melbourne.
QREME LA FRANCE.
FRENCH LIQUID COSMETIC.
gj
fg
j
An Exquisite Lotion for Beau-
tifying-and giving Tone and
Brilliance to the Com-
plexion. It is most
beneficial to those
whose skin is show-
ing a tendency to
become livid or dis-
colored. It softens
a hard, dry skin
Perfectly harmless
to the most delicate
skin. Price 2/6,
Posted 3/- Obtain-
able from MADAME
LEIGH, Ladies’ Hair-
dresser and Hairworker,
23 The Block Arcade,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Wholesale: DI'ERTHN AND SAINSBURY, Melbourne.
r* HEAP,Second-Hand 15 Brake H.P.
TANGYE GAS ENGINE,
IN GOOD ORDER.
Apply Manager, “ BULLETIN ” OFFICE,
214 George Street, Sydney.
A N Australian’s Two Hands—THE LONE
HAND and THE BULLETIN. You can’t
do without either, and theyboth cost the same.
“ LINSEED COMPOUND ” for Coughs and
Colds. Relieves Asthma and difficult breathing.
Allcocks
Established 1847.
Plasters
The World's Greatest
External Remedy.
jr
Pains in the Back
Allcock's Plasters have no equal.
Strengthen Weak Backs
as nothing else can.
Pains in the Side
Allcock's Plaslers relieve promptly
and at the same time
strengthen side and restore energy.
Allcock's is the original and genuine porous plaster.
For over 60 years it has been the standard remedy for
all aches and pains. Apply wherever there is Pain.
When you need a Pill
TAKE A Brandreth's Pill
Purely Vegetable.
(Est. 1752.)
For Constipation, Biliousness, Headache, Dizziness, Indigestion,
SOLD BY CHEMISTS EVERYWHERE.
ALLCOCK MANUFACTURING CO., Birkenhead, England.
HEN’S WINTER FOOTWEAR.
A NEW
MODEL.
Price 19/6.
The Glace or Box Balmoral illustrated is the result of the
best shoe-making thought obtainable, applied to the best
mechanical process and worked out in as excellent
leather as the world’s tanneries afford.
Write for our Booklet,
“ SHOELIGHT.”
EEEMING’S BOOT STORES
fgfgj
109 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
257-259 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
303 Chapel Street, Prahran.
1 and 3 Errol Street, North Melbourne.
“Aberdeen” Waterproof
Buggy Rugs !
For SERVICE and SATISFACTION.
QUITE. different to the ordinary kind. It is made
of special waterproof, and ROT-PROOF cloth
will not become sticky, crack, nor emit a dis-
agreeable odor under the sun’s heat, like rubber-covered
or glazed rugs. A rug that looks well, and wears splen-
didly. Colors: BROWN or KHAKI. Size 70in. x
60in. If unobtainable locally, send for price list.
Smith, Copeland & Go. Ltd.,
204-206 Clarence Street, Sydney.
AGENTS—
QUEENSLAND: H. J. H. ROSS, Edward Street, Brisbane.
VICTORIA : J. BARTRAM & SONS, King Street, Melbourne.
S. AUSTRALIA : C. WHITING, Currie Street, Adelaide.
JjJi
; 'V
EGS*
Aberdeen Horse and
Cow Rugs and Tents
are quite the best
obtainable, too. Lead-
ing stores sell them.
Gold Aedal Paris 1900 « Grand Prize St Louis 1904
KALODERHA
C=l
]
PREPARATIONS
F. WOLFF & SOHN, Karlsruhe and London
Kaloflermn Jelly
prepared with glycerine 5s honey without
oil or fat, does not grease; is most
agreeable # efficacious for preventing and allaying irritation.
Kalodermo Soap
prepared with glycerine and honey, a
most refined and delicately perfumed
Toiletsoap, the leading soap for softening # improving the sKin.
Kalodermn Rice Powder
most popular and refined
toiletpowder. Je/"
Knlodermq Shaping Soap
prepared with the renowned
Kaloderma Jelly undispu-
tedly the most emollient shaving soap on the market,
refined luxury at a popular price. Jcf UcT r JeT
Obtainable from all the leading establishments.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted, whether sent by post or handed
in; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps
(of any State) accomvany.
W.E.K.: Unable to use story. You
might place it elsewhere K.W.: Cannot drop
those few lines into the sea of publicity.... D.B.
(V.) : Both fail.... Fencer D.: Had almost decided
that your poem must be given a chance because you
had suffered from influenza, when a man hurried in
and claimed that an article of his should, be accepted
because he had a wooden leg... .R.J.A.: A raw pro-
duct R.S.T. (N.S.W.) : Afraid we can’t put out
to sea in the dream ships. As to “The Letter,” the
brightest spot is the gallant attempt to rhyme “town-
ship” with “bunyip.”. .. .F.P. (V.): Great possi-
bilities'ip the situation, but you haven’t the neces-
sary skill .Jim: Poem is only a dull procession
of cows witlij6ut a brass band.... Madge: It is a
sprightly rhyme:—-
I 1 shall gather roses
Roses all the day!
Ere the mist uncloses,
I shall gather roses —
Splendid, blushing roses!
Ilip-hip-hip l Hooray ! !
At least, that horrid last line isn’t yours ; but after
three solid pages of rose-picking, we had to do some-
thing of the kind or burst. .. .0.T.G.: “If no good
to you please return.” Have you got such a thing
as a stamp about you ?. .. . Pakeha: Amiable rhyme
on a fearfully overdone theme. Nothing distinctive.
Flo (V.): Unskilful verse B. Dick: Too
5ma11.... Jardo: Cold toast. .. .F.X. (S.A.) : Story
makes us wish that we could put the ice-cap of
Greenland on our bursting head Miles: Yarn
moves about as Rapidly as a glacier.... Lighter: Are
you a relative of the daily-paper young man who re-
cently got off the sentence, “Fortunately the con-
flagration was nipped in the bud”? Pagan: A
good old chestnut neatly served up. Unable to use.
.. . yPhyllis F.: “She cannot tell him of her love —
that is her grief, they say.” We are sorry for her,
and, in case he is a modern young man, we offer
her this:—
TO HAROLD.
I kneel —I kneel at your socks!
Oh ! my heart has ceased to beat!
How many have lost their blocks
At your beautiful brilliant feet ?
Orange, and green and pink !
Purple, and green and blue!
Down at your socks I sink
For your socks, my King, are YOU!!
....Prospector: A duffer. .. .P.M.S.: Sorry to have
to basket the product of your honest Anti-Wowser
rage, but it is too terrible. Why not read it to the
dismal being as he walks down Collins-street some
busy day? The spectacle of a distracted Wowser
trying to escape from a remorseless chanting poet,
armed with a fistful of bad verse, would give Mel-
bourne great joy and cheer it up in the midst of its
blizzards... .Percy J.: It is tremendous:—
Why should the eagle on yon frowning crag
Look down upon the smiling vale and say
“Methinks last night I heard upon the breeze
The last wild shriek of Freedom blowing Free?”
Give it up. If Freedom has emitted any shrieks
lately, none of them have blown into this office. Do
not know of any talking eagle. If there is one
about, it is an odds-on chance that he never says
“Methinks.” H.D.G.: Cut off F.L.P.: Your
cake is not exactly dough, but there is no icing on
it....M.T.: Torpedoed the battleship poem.... Gay
L.: The lady was justified in throwing him over. If
she had also pushed him under with the boat-hook
we wouldn’t have blamed her John X. (V.) :
unfurnished poem full of draughts...... C.
(Bondi): Two verses:—
Five years have passed since he was took,
They miss him down the street;
The roses bloom and fade away,
But we never hear his feet.
And as the months goes by I hear
Her face is getting pale,
But she’ll be true to him, they say,
Till he comes home again from jail.
.... Oanfa (and others) : Pars, are not acknowledged
in this column. If they are accepted they are
printed; that is the only acknowledgment that space
will permit Red Light: Don’t propose to throw
any bricks at any reasonable attempt to put down
street-begging by blind people. It is just about the
worst use to which the afflicted people can put them-
selves J.G.: Do put your stuff through the con-
centrating mill. We don’t want the mullock; send
us the metal Fleeced: Better not Tradoto:
They haven’t agreed yet about the billion. Some
allege it’s a million millions; others a thousand
millions. This paper is losing no sleep over the
problem. _____
•-* TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CONTRIBUTORS.
Frank N.: You’re improving S. Symon: Very
promising work : .A:B.: Can't’ judge much by
samples submitted A.J.H. i (Brisbane): Close-up
good enough lI.S. (Tas.) : Decrepit gag; and no
flicker of hope in the drawing.
The brilliant little Jesuit, Father Corti,
who has been lecturing in Melbourne, came
all the way round the world to photo an
eclipse which lasted a few minutes, and had
a lot of those minutes wasted by a careless
cloud which floated over the sky and totally
eclipsed his camera. ' When he is at home
he is professor of. astronomy at Stonyhurst
College, where he was educated. Among his
contemporaries at the famous Yorkshire
school were #§ N.S.W. Hughes brothers,
John and Toni, M’s.L.C.; “Tom” Dalton, of
Orange; Powders, the Spanish Consul in
Sydney Conan Doyle, M.P., the novelist ;
Bernard Partridge, Punch artist and cari-
caturist ; Father Cahill, of St. Aloysius,
North Sydney, and lots of other well-known
men who are doing things, or have done them
in various parts of the world. In the mat-
ter of oratory, Father Corti reminds Aus-
tralian people of the late Archbishop
Vaughan ; and all the Vaughans were silver-
tongued.
Moorabbin, where the Victorian cabbages
come from, is packed with market-gardeners,
both white and yellow—not a cleanly
peonle, as a rule. Moorabbin has a State
school, with 300 scholars, one towel for the
300 scholars, and a health-officer who has
reported to the Moorabbin council that one
towel is not enough for 300 children. Of
course there is some natural irritation, both
in the local council and at the offices of the
Education Department, at the action of the
health-person in taking it on himself to in-
terfere in the matter, even though it be his
duty. A system which has been in vogue
for a very long time in the Victorian schools,
without causing any considerable protest
from parents, should not readily be made
the subject of condemnatory remarks. There
must be something good in a practice which
lias stood the test of many years. In any
case, an extra supply of towels would cost
money—and where is the money to come
from now that so many country and other
people with votes to give away have to be
sweetened in view of a coming election?


WHY YOD CAN TBUST MY
FREE CIGAR
TRIAL
mm
£U4/Y\>
ALMOST everybody knows about my efforts
to make Cigar-smoking popular in Aus-
tralia.
My FREE CIGAR TRIAL is this:—l’ll send
you a box of ioo DIADEMAS for 22/6 —equal, as
they are, to any 6d. Cigar on the market; really
worth £2 ss, per 100 —and you can smoke 5 or 6
of them. If they aren’t as good as any Cigar
you have ever tried, send the remainder back to
me, and I’ll refund your money in full, without
any charge for those you’ve smoked.
fjg
Now, I want to prove to
you how straight this offer is.
You might think—“ Why
doesn’t he send the box up
without any money, and let
us send the money on when
we’ve tried the 5 or 6 and
found them as good as he
says, or else return the
balance then ?”
I tell you right ofi, I'd like
to do that. But that would
put all the trusting on my
side—and I've got to make a
living.
I know nearly every man-
jack ofyou wouldact straight
to me if I did make this ofler.
But you know as well as I
there are some who would
get the Cigars, and let me
whistle for the money.
I know there’d be only a
few who would do this; but
I sell my Cigars so close to
cost —cutting off all the ware-
houseman's, traveller’s and
retailer’s profits—that these
few would cripple my scheme
altogether, That’s wily I
can't do it and give the same
Cigar value as I give to-day.
1 know you’re trusting me
in sending down the money
before you get the Cigars.
But you’ll get the Cigars
right by return post, never
fear. You can smoke sor 6
of them, and if they’re not
as good as you expected,
you can send what are left
right back. I'll return your money —every
penny of it, with no deduction whatever—
and even here you needn’t only take my word
for it.
I have my banking account at the Com-
mercial Bank of Australia Limited, Melbourne.
The General Manager there knows all about
me and my way of doing business. He’ll vouch
for me; and you can refer to him before you
send any order at all to me. That’s proof of my
squareness, isn’t it?
Sit down now and send me 22/6 to-day, and
I’ll forward you a box of 100 DIADEMAS:—
Cigars that I promise are equal to any 6d.
Cigar sold in Australia —made from clean, long,
straight Brazilian leaf, and rolled in the finest
Java wrapper.
My Only Address is
LOUIS KAUFFMANN
34 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE
Illustrated Descriptive Booklet will be
Mailed Free to any address.
fgjfjg
fgj
The Celebrated
iSchiedmaveu
THB
BEST PIANO
for the
Australian Climate.
Obtainable from
MAX WURCKER,
99-101, York Street, SYDNEY.
Ana all prominent Piano warehouses In
the whole of Australasia.
“ The Chalmers
recommended
has been
me.
9 9
Day after day, both in Sydney and Melbourne, intending purchasers come to our showrooms to
see the Chalmers--men from the North of Queensland, men from Tasmania, men from all over
Australia.
We take this condition to mean that the Chalmers car has not only now made a good reputa-
tion in our country, but also that the Chalmers Company has succeeded in building cars that
appeal to the careful buyers here.
Out of the 46 cars we have sold since Christmas, 35 of them were Chalmers cars; out of
these 35 purchasers, 12 were experienced motorists —men who had previously owned cars. Again,
there were four repeat orders from Chalmers owners.
From Svdney to Narromine, 300 miles, at an average of 33 miles per hour, and over 20 miles
to the gallon of fuel. From AVarialda to Newcastle, 310 miles, in daylight. Seven thousand
miles in 10 weeks, and the front tyres still good. These records speak for themselves.
20-30 H.P. Touring Car
equipped with Five Lamps,
Generator, 880 x 120
Tyres,
£490
Both
Guaran-
teed
Two
Years.
55-40 H.P. Torpedo
with full equipment
and 920 x 120
tyres,
£790
ART CATALOGUES ARE FREE.
GET ONE.
ROY W. SANDFORD,
Agent for Chalmers and Thomas Cars and Empire Runabouts,
105 EXHIBITION ST., MELBOURNE; 181 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY.
fgj
The World’s Standard
Valveless Engine.
THE life history of a FERRO ENGINE would be
very Interesting were we to follow it from its
embryonic stage on the blue prints of the
designers, through the various phases of infantile
life, till it emerges from the factory to be transported
to some particular spot on old mother earth, to fulfil
its destiny as the WILLING SLAVE OF INDUSTRY.
From icy pole to torrid zone, from far-off Alaska
to Australia, the sun never sets on the “ FERRO.”
THE CURSE OF ADAM has no terrors for the
men who own them. A man must needs sweat, but
he can sweat to better advantage than by yanking a
saw, pump handle or chaffcutter. Turn these jobs
over to the “ FERRO ” ; they are built to do them.
If you do not happen to own one, get busy and
write the nearest agent, who will be only too happy
to suggest the right sweat-preventer for the job.
Made in the following sizes suitable for
Stationary, Portable or Marine use:
3,4, V/z, 8,11,12,15, 17, 25 H.P.
FERRO AGENTS :
Hall Bros., Druitt St, SYDNEY.
Acme Motor & Eng. Co., 355 Lonsdale St., MELBOURNE.
Howard Motor & Cycle Co., Queen St., BRISBANE.
F. J. Langley, Torrens St. E., ADELAIDE.
Perth Motor House, Hay St., PERTH.
Wearne & Ceard, LAUNCESTON.
Hayward & Garrett, Stuart St., DUNEDIN.
H. T. Whitson & Co., Customs St. W., AUCKLAND
H. T. Moors, APIA, SAMOA.
Note that
ft
POT POURRI
is the Highest Product of the
Tobacco Blenders’ Art. oR m d a E il BY
“ POT POURRI ” Cigarettes. —The highest grade obtainable, at 6d. per packet of io ;
4/6 per ioo.
“ POT POURRI ” Cigars.— A fragrant smoke — 3d. each ; 5 for l/= ; 18/6 per 100.
“ POT POURRI ” Tobacco.— 40Z. tins, 2/= ; Boz. tins, 4/= ; 8/= per lb. There is none
better than this—it is the BEST.
“POT POURRI ” Pipes, Silver-mounted, superior quality, all shapes, 2/6 each.
“ POT POURRI ” always the same, always enjoyable.
Clients in country or other States ORDER NOW, and it will be
posted FREE by return, with Catalogue which will interest you.
A. A. MARKS, Sole Agent, 376 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
ZEISS
FIELD GLASSES
WITH ENHANCED STEREOSCOPIC EFFECT.
For:
ARMY.
MARINE.
TRAVEL.
SPORT.
STALKING.
fgj
Features:
Brilliant
Definition.
Extensive Field.
Great Light
Intensity.
Mechanical
Precision.
Stability.
Tropic Proof.
With
separate eyepiece
focussing.
X 8 £8 15 0
Xl2—£l2 10 0
NEW MODELS
OF ALL
OPTICIANS AT
AUSTRALASIAN
PRICES.
With
central focussing
mechanism.
X 6 0 0
XB—£9 15 0
fgj
fgj
PEBECO
does far more than ensure
whiteness of the teeth. It
r counteracts the acid secretions
of the mouth, in which flourish the
bacterial ravages of the teeth.
As a breath purifier Pebeco is
invaluable. Night and morning
use of it will repay a hundredfold
in improved appearance, economy
in dental expense and better health.
PEBECO
Tooth Paste.
Of all Chemists, etc.
Sole Agent—
-6 O'Connell St, Sydney
■ AinOW, (Wholesale only).
fgj
m
A
BRAHAM'
COSTUME
FOR
WINTER.
DAVID BRAHAM
AND CO.,
76 Market Street,
Sydney.
Next door to Parmer’s.
%2) Well, of course
Anything worth doing is
worth doing well —so for
the antiseptic cleansing your
teeth need every day, use
CALVERT’S
Carbolic Tooth Powder
Lo:al Chemists and Stores sell it.
F. C. Calvert & Co.* Manchester, Eng.
\
fiSSI
BIRD’S
CUSTARD
/Tk, 0r.g.m.l
ot%ly Crnvlttt
Creamy
&EGG-like.
The World’s Daily Delicacy
From 1837 to 1911
Bird's
Custard
Crowns every meal with enjoyment-
_ Children revel in it; you r o
right to indulge their liking for
this creamy wholesome dainly,
with its rich stoie of nutriment.
W Insist on BIRD’S Custard-
No substitute can be so pure or
so wholesome.


c°
PERDRIAU
“TITAN”
Leather Belting.
Perdriau “Titan” Leather Belting is of
the highest possible merit. For the man or
firm who desires the most satisfactory, dur-
able and economical Belting it is without
equal.
With you, of course, it is not a matter of
choosing a “good” Belting. You naturally
desire the very best, and in the “Titan” you
are assured of nothing less. It is made for
us from specially-selected tanned leather. It
runs true, with practically no stretch, and is
suitable alike for high or low speed. There
are years of perfect service in the “Titan”
Belting.
We have in stock at all times a full range
of single, double and triple ply, lace or
copper sewn. We will be pleased to send you
copy of our Price List on request.
PERDRIAU RUBBER CO., Ltd.,
“The Best House for all Rubber Goods.”
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
fgj
Turn
This
Button.
Pen
Fills
Itself.
THE . . .
“MODERN”
AUTOMATIC
SELF-FILLING
FOUNTAIN
PEN
THE Modern Automatic
Self-Filling Fountain
Pen has many advan-
tages over the ordinary
fountain pen, and costs no
more. Simply twist end,
hold pen in ink, xintwist
and the pen is filled. No
joints to leak, no soiling of
fingers in filling. Made in
all styles of holders and
points to meet the use of
the most critical writer.
YVe have thousands of satis-
fied users in both America
and Europe.
Address:
Modern Pen Company,
Sole Selling Agent for
A. A. Waterman & Co.,
NEW YORK.
22 THAMES STREET,
NEW YORK, U.S.A.
If it isn't an A.A. it isn't a
“MODERN.”
YVe are offering to the
firms handling our line an
attractive showcase which
is furnished without charge,
and shall be glad to submit
full particulars to firms
interested. We also manu-
facture a complete line of
standard and safety types.
FROOTOIDS
Cure Headache, Indigestion, Constipa-
tion, and Biliousness. They are elegant
in appearance and pleasant to take;
they are immensely more valuable than
an ordinary aperient; they remove from
the blood, tissues, and internal, organs,
waste poisonous matter that is clogging
them and choking the channels that lead
to and from them. Frootoids are
THE BEST
aperient medicine to take when any
Congestion or Blood Poison is present,
or when Congestion of the Brain or
Apoplexy is present or threatening. They
have been tested, and have been proved
to afford quick relief in such cases when
other aperients have not done any good
at all. Frootoids are absolutely un-
rivalled for
FAMILY
use ; their beneficial effects are evident
by the disappearance of headache —a
bright cheery sense of perfect health
taking the place of sluggish depressed
feelings, by the liver acting properly, and
by the food being properly digested.
Frootoids are a very economical
MEDICINE.
A dose taken once a week, at bed-time,
is highly beneficial. They act splendidly
!on the Liver. A constipated habit of
! body will be completely cured if the
patient will on each occasion, when
suffering, take a dose of Frootoids in-
stead of an ordinary aperient. The
sufferer thus gradually becomes quite
independent of Aperient Medicines.
Price 1/6. From all Chemists and
Medicine Vendors, and W. G. Hearne &
Co., Ltd., Geelong, Victoria.
JERPAN’S “HOME” BATTERY.
fgjfgj
fgj
The Finest Health Restorer.
This little “ HOME ” Battery is NO
quack electrical apparatus —it is genuine,
reliable, efficient and LASTING in its
results. •
Its life-giving currents act IMMEDI-
\ ATELY on the weak spots.
Rheumatism, Lumbago, Gout —all uric
acid diseases and neuralgic troubles
yield to the “ Home Battery, and
the patient experiences great relief.
Try it—the working is most simple.
Price
35/-
Post
Free.
LET US SEND YOU THE
FREE BATTERY BOOKLET.
JERDAN’S
“ My Opticians,”
Opticians and Electricians,
393 George
Street
(Facing
Royal Hotel),
Sydney
A WATCH BARGAIN!
<ZLV
A HALF-GUINEA WATCH FOR 3/11.
HERE r S a real Half-guinea Timekeeper that we are offering you for 3/11
just to induce you to buy our “ Corn Cob” Tobacco or our “ King of
All ” Cigars. It has a fine railway dial, and is guaranteed. You get
it for well under half-price if bought at the same time as any of these purchases.
CIGARS : 4 for i/- ; Sample Box of io, 2/6 ; 50 for 9/6 ; Box of 100, 18/6.
All Post Free.
TOBACCO : 2oz. “Corn Cob,” packet, cut light or dark, iod. ; Watch, 3/11 ; postage 6d.
Total, 5/3. Inter-State, 2d. extra. 402. “Corn Cob,” plug, light or dark, 1/4 ; the
“Corn Cob” Watch, 3/11 ; postage 6d. Total, 5/9. Inter-State, 3d. extra. Per lb.
boxes, 6/- ; 2oz. packets, 6/6. Inter-State, 3d. extra. The Watch only, 10/6 post free.
Quantity Price to Storekeepers and Stations on application.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George St., Sydney.
Established
30 Years.
Underwear
Made in
England
trade
HMVW
The “BIRD MARK’* on your Underwear
is a guarantee that the garments are made from
the finest Australian Lambswool and Cotton,
and in some qualities Silk.is added.
The garments also have patented improve-
ments and fit the figure perfectly.
The most perfect underwear for hot weather
is the “BIRD MARK” Merino and Silk
Underwear, it will stand hard wear yet light in
weight.
Sold by all Drapers and Outfitters.
Wholesale only :
I. & R. MORLEY and GEO. BRETTLE & CO.,
London, E.C
Ask for THE ‘ BIRD MARK ’ ME UNO UNDERWEAR
£
HYPNOTISM
Would vou possess that strange mysterious power
WHICH' CHARMS AND FASCINATES men and
women, influences their thoughts, controls their de-
sires, and makes you supreme master of every situation ?
Life is full of alluring possibilities for those who master
the secrets of hypnotic influence ; for those who develop their
magnetic powers. You can learn at home, cure diseases and
bad habits without drugs, win the friendship and love of others,
INCREASE YOUR INCOME, gratify your ambitions, drive worry
and trouble from your mind, improve your memory, overcome domes-
tic difficulties, give the most thrilling entertainment ever witnessed, and
develop a wonderfully magnetic will power that will enable you to over-
come all obstacles to your success. YOU CAN HYPNOTISE PEOPLE
INSTANTANEOUSLY —quick as a flash —put yourself or anyone else to
sleep at anv hour of the day or night—banish pain and suffering. OUR
FREE BOOK tells you the secrets of this wonderful science. It explains
exactly how vou can use this power to better your condition in life. It is enthusiastically
endorsed bv ministers of the gospel, lawyers, doctors, business men and society women. It benefits
everybody. It costs nothing. We give it away to advertise our institution. Write for it to-day
on a Penny Post Card.
New York Institute of Sciences, Dept. 22K
Rochester, N.Y., U.S.A.
fgj
m
0
Is the most periect Preservative for the Skin
and Complexion. Invaluable for the SKIN
in HOT or COLD Climates, removing all
ROUGHNESS, IRRITATION and TAN
COOLINQ AND REFRESHING TO THE SKIN, KEEPING IT SOFT
AS VELVET ALL THE YEAR ROUND. VERY SOOTHING IF
APPLIED AFTER SHAVING
M. BEETHAM & SON, CHELTENHAM, ENGLAND
The
Edison
Amberola
Combines all the tonal richness of the othfr
types of Edison Phonographs with the added
richness, simplicity, and charm of a master-
piece of cabinet work. The Amberola plays
both Edison Standard and Edison Amberol
Records. It is made in several finishes of
Oak and Mahogany to harmonise with the
furnishings in your home, and has drawers to
hold 100 Records.
Hear the Amberola at the nearest Edison
Store to-day. Ask your dealer, or write us
direct, for Lists of Phonographs and Records.
National Phonograph Co. of Australia Ltd.
(Wholesale Only),
Dept. 8., 364-372 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
A BAD LEG
CURED BY
Solomon
Solution
"Some time ago I suffered intense
pain in my leg. For one week it was
terrible. A friend recommended
SOLOMON SOLUTION, so I got a jar. Ever
since using it I have had no return of
that excruciating pain; it certainly
suited my case MARVELLOUSLY. I am
57 and take long walks, so you can
believe I feel myself cured. I have re-
commended it to two of my friends
who have also greatly benefited by it.”
(Sgd.) Mrs. E. A. C. Payne
Budgeree, via Boolarra,
South Gipps'and.
Obtainable in 2/6 Jars from Chemists
and Storekeepers post free for 3/- from
SOLOMON COX & SON
439 Bourke Street, Melbourne
L.R.W.
f
MODERN
LIGHTING
ATMOSLITE— new air-
gas machine embodying
latest scientific principles
of Safety, Simplicity,
Eflieiepcy and Economy,
so essential to a modern
lighting-plant. The
Atmoslite is the best,
and will always be the
best—until it is equalled.
A postcard for Cata-
logue. Write to-day.
Brandt Bros., Ltd.,
LAMPHOUSE.
236 Pitt St., Sydney.
Elizabeth St, Melbourne
EHI3E
DiunßEnric
KIDNEY & DLaDDEK
REMEDY
A CORRECTIVE
OF THE
URINARY
ORGANS
M
IT IS
ALSO A
SPLENDID
TONIC
Obramsb/e <?// Chemists
■ CLARTON, HODGSON & C? I/TPI
jcle Australasian Agents. 73 YORK ST.SYDNEY \
Prompt Relief
fgj
i from Rheumatism
LUMBAGO, SPRAINS,
AND ALL ACHES AND PAINS
Assured by Applying
fgj
S T JACOBS
OIL
Sold everywhere.
The'Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries-
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
in use sine* 1686.
CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask yourchemißt tor its history—the book is free—or write
s. GREEN. 210, Lambeth Koad, London, Eng.


I3MU,WiM',I
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY.
GOUT. RHEUMATISM,
sciatica. LUMBAGO.
NEURALGIA.
Blair’
GOUT AND
RHEUMATIC
They Never Fail.
They Always Cure.
Pills
The only true and safe remedy for Gout and
Rheumatism that has stood the test of time
All Chemists and Stores at i/i J & 2/9 per box
Proprietors, PROUT & Co., 229. Strand.
London. England
rer-iTi
ARE YOU
D E A F?
If you are deaf, or going deaf, you will
be glad to hear of a simple and scientific de-
vice which will restore your hearing, no mat-
ter how old you are. There is no mystery
or secrecy about it; describe it fully and
explain just how it acts.
You use spectacles as sight magnifiers, and
in the same way you may use this sound
magnifier as an aid to weak hearing. But,
unlike spectacles, the Wilson Common-sense
Ear-Drums are invisible and comfortable.
You can’t tell you are wearing them. No
one ; else . can, either, because they are not
seen. 1
They rest the ear nerves by taking the
strain off them—-the strain of trying to hear
dim sounds. What a blessed ‘ relief to have
done with that tiring strain!
Being made of the purest and softest Para
rubber, they cannot be felt, even when the
head rests on a pillow. For the same reason,
a blow on the side of the head will not hurt
the ear. In fact, they protect the ear, the
tender inner parts that are so sensitive, from
cold winds, dust, sudden and piercing sounds.
So that 7 you may clearly understand why
these facts, are true, and why the Sound Mag-
nifier restores the hearing, we give an illus-
tration of one as it lies in the ear. You will
notice that the Sound Magnifier is. .shaped
, like a trumpet, and so conveys even the
faintest sounds right to the natural ear-
drum. Being of the softest rubber, it cannot
hurt the ear. It fits the orifice of the ear
with precision and comfort! The division
that runs across the mouth is-to allow the re-
moval and insertion ,of the ,Ear-Drum, and to
brSee it. • • ’ '
The shape- Of the Wilson Ear-Drum has
been chosen after years of! experience l as tlie
best adapted ,tq, .cqjgy. the faintest-sound right
down to the natural ear-drum.
To persons who are nearly -deaf, it> is- not
only trying to have people shout .at-. thCm,
but it hurts .the ear-djruftn - When age comes
the ear-drum sometiffiespgets ' thickenedj or
loses its tightness, and shouting does not act
properly on it. It only makes a confused
and-tiring noise. -But the Sound Magnifiers
concentrate the s,qund 4 jim- the best spot for,
perfect hearing. !
Of course, if yonf have lost the hearing-
nerve completely-, or were born deaf, we can-
not pretend to cure you. Only a miracle
could do that, in spite of some of the absurd
claims .made to-day. But if, you can hear the
faintest sound, do not despair. You will
heVer: regret trying the Wilson EartDrums.
We have letters, to show you from.deaf people
in Australia" and New Zealand who have been
cured, and you can be cured, too. You may
wear the'Ear-Drums day and night, and take
them out whenever you wish. Children can
wear them (we have special sizes for children
from six to twelve). Even a child can insert
and remove them without the least danger.
The price is £1 (the fee for a doctor’s
single visit). This includes a pair of Drums
(they are only sold in pairs), a fine nickel
remover and also an inserter! After the first
pair is bought you may purchase* a single
drum at any time for Bs., but the pair you
get at first will last quite two years. Do not
ask for a trial pair. We do not send them
out on trial, and so they are never second-
hand. Use the Order Form below, and the-
Outfit will be sent to you at once, with the
fullest instructions. Don’t delay, but have
the comfort of good hearing as soon as you
can.- • ht e? •
ORDER FORM.
STAR NOVELTY CO., -
103 Premier Buildings,
229 Collins Street, Melbourne . (Vic.).
Please send me an Outfit containing a pair
of Wilson Common-sense Ear-Drums, an In-
serter and a Remover, for which I enclose
One Pound.
Name
Address
NOTE. —Send by Money Order or Postal
Note. If a Bank Note or Sovereign is sent,
.you must register it. w
PHOSFERINE
The Remedy of Kings
%
The Greatest of all Tonics
A PROVEN REMEDY FOR
Debility
Influenza
Indigestion
Sleeplessness
Exhaustion
,i
Neuralgia j
Maternity Weakness
Premature Decay
Mental Exhaustion
Loss of Appetite
Lassitude
Neuritis
Faintness
Brain-Fag
Anaemia
Backache
Rheumatism
Headache
Hysteria
Sciatica
and disorders consequent upon a reduced state of the nervous system.
A further mark of Royal Appreciation has again dis-
. tinguished Phosferine by the bestowal of a
ROYAL WARRANT TO SUPPLY PHOSFERINE
TO HIS MAJESTY
THE KING OF SPAIN
This world-renowned restorative medicine has
already for many years been supplied by
ROYAL COMMANDS
fgj
To the Royal Family
H.I.M. the Empress 9f Russia
H.M. the King of Greece
H.M. the Queen of Roumania
H.I.M. the Dowager Empress of Russia
The Imperial Family of China
H.R.H. the Grand Duchess of Hesse
fgj
H.I.H. the Grand Duchess Olga of Russia
And the Principal Royalty and Aristocracy throughout the World
PUBLIC CAUTION
Purchasers of Phosferine (spelled Phosferine) should insist
upon being supplied with the genuine preparation, as
supplied to the King of Spain and nearly all the Royal
Families of Europe. The fact that Phos_ferine is The
Royal Tonic assures customers that it is highly com-
mended by the greatest living physicians. When- asking
for PHOSFERINE see that the article you get is the
genuine and spelt
PHOSFERINE
Refuse any preparation of a similar sounding name
which may be offered from interested motives. The
original and only genuine PHOSFERINE is prepared by
ASHTON & PARSONS, LTD., LONDON.
The 2/6 size contains nearly four times the 1/- size.
fgj
Prizes Value
IN THE
8-HOUR
£3OOO
ART UNION
and SPORTS
(Under sanction of the Attorney-General). Drawn October 28,1911.
Ist Prize, value £650- 2nd Prize, value £350.
3rd Prize, value £2OO. And 347 other Valuable Prizes.
The First Prize last year was won by Mrs. D. Owen, Bulli, N.S." ~
for the modest outlay of ONE SHILLING.
GET A TICKET AND HAVE A CHANCE FOR 1911.
Results of Drawing will be advertised in this paper on November 2.
To any person forwarding stamped addressed envelope, a list of
the results will be posted. Tickets may be had from Agents in all
towns, or direct from
JOHN W. DOVLE, Secretary, Trades-Hall, Sydney.
DR. J. COLL IS BROWNE’S
The Oi iginal ant/ Only Genuine
Convincing 1
Medical
Testimony
with each'
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prichs in
England—
-1/I*, 2/9 & 4/6
jgfjg
Checks and
arrests Fever.
Croup, Ague.
The Best
Remedy
known for
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS.
Acts like a charm in
DIARRHOEA, and is the only
specific in CHOLERA and DYSENTERY,
NEW
Queensland Railways.
Thousands of men will be working on
these shortly, and the wise ones will
wear our
Signal Brand
Boots
especially made for this work.
EACH PAIR GUARANTEED.
Take no other brand if you wish for
satisfactory wear.
Demand them from your storekeeper.
MADE WITH UNION LABOR.
Have
Green
Soles.
ill
m
om
- (REGIS * 1 TfRLTO
Have
Green
Soles.
The Davey Halliday C? to
BRISBANE, Q.,
SOLE MANUFACTURERS.
“ A Perfect Beverage,
combining Strength, Purity
and Solubility.”—
Medical Annual.
VAN
MOUTEITS
COCOA
\
Universally • appreciated
for its
High Quality
and
Delicious Flavour.
Best & Goes Farthest.
LETTERS COPIED
WHILE WRITING
By Using Your Own Letter
Paper, Invoices,
etc., WITH THE
NSC/ 200
Patent ZanetiC
COPYING BoO*>
tik
You simply insert
your writing paper
in the holder and write. Whereupon you secure by
the act of writing a perfect letter and a perfect copy
(which remains in the book). There is no sign of
copying or perforated edge.
Sample of the Celebrated Zanetic Paper which
produces this result free from ,
S.B. ZANETIC WORKS, Welford
Road, Leicester, England.
If stamped addressed envelope enclosed, one com-
plete NSC/100 Copying 200 full size lOin. x Sin.
letters, for 3/6 post free ; or Copying 400, 5/-.
WHOLESALE AGENTS WANTED.


“SURE CATCH” is Undoubtedly THE Fishing Tackle to Use
- SURE CATCH ” is the Tackle of DISTINCTION, QUALITY and RENOWN. It has Jest for Yeate, thus Provlag: its ABSOLUTE RELIABILITY.
It is used by the Most Prominent Anglers of the day, and CANINUI hachulku.
“RIG FISH” TACKLE SPECIALITIES.
RODS.
Extra Ouality Spilt Cane Rods, 2 joints, 2 tops, steel centre, double-
handed cork irrip, strong porcelain rod and end ring's, best bronzed
suction ferrules, double brazed, highly finished. Excellent value. A
perfect “ Big Fish ” Rod. 7£ feet, 57/6 each ; 8J feet, 62/6 each.
Rod A—Very Superior “Big Fish” Rod, made of mottled cane, 3
joints, 2 greenheart tops, one top spliced with w halebone and fitted
with pulley end ring, double swelled grip, hardened snake rings,
solid winch fittings, extra strong ferrules, double brazed and rubber
button. This rod has been made to our own special instructions.
9 feet, 35/- each ; 10 feet, 37/6 each.
Rod B—The “ Queensland ” Rod, 9J feet, 4 joints, 2 tops, made of
best seasoned greenheart, lock joints, double brazed, porcelain
bridge and end rings, hardened snake rings, and rubber button,
30/- each.
For EXCELLENCE and STERLING WORTH “ SURE CATCH ” Fishing
Tackle is ABSOLUTELY UNRIVALLED, as ISTESTIFIEDbythe EVER
INCREASING CROWD of SATISFIED and APPRECIATIVE ANGLERS
from near and far.
REELS.
No. 3C—Nottingham Wood Reels, aluminium lining and flange,
solid brass star back, movable check, very strong- line guard. A
perfect reel for “Big Fish.” 5 inch, 22/6 ; 6 inch, 27/6 ;6J inch,
30/- each.
REELS (continued).
No. s—The New “ Lockfast” Tension Big Fish Reels, aluminium
lining and flange, solid brass star back, optional check brass
handle plates. A splendid reel. 4 inch, 18/6; 5 inch, 20/-,
No. 6 16—Finest Quality Metal “Big Fish” Reels, nickel-plated
rims and bars, multiplying’ action, leather thumb brake for checking 1
speed, steel pivots, optional check, interleaved with aluminium,
which greatly strengthens the reel and reduces the weight,
3£ inch, 35/- ; 4 inch, 45/-
The MORE CRITICAL the ANGLER, the MORE EMPHATIC is HIS
APPRECIATION of “SURE CATCH” FISHING TACKLE. THE
TACKLE that CANNOT BE SURPASSED.
SPINNING BAITS.
M.S. Perfect Spinners, a splendid spinner for all same fish. Sizes—
‘ 3b inch, 3/3 each ; 4 inch, 3/9 each.
No. 23—M.S. Paragon Spinners, made specially to our own order,
and can be bad in the following sizes : 3 inch, 2/6; 3£ inch, 3/- ;
4 inch, 3/6 ; 5 inch, 4/6 each.
No. 3—Extra Heavy Spoon Baits, scaled back, red inside, mounted
with extra strong swivels, split rings, and treble hooks. An excel-
lent bait. 3 inch, 21- ; 3b inch, 3/; 4 inch, 3/6 each.
No. 4—Best Quality Ring-mounted Devon Baits, xx heavy and
very strong ; specially made for Big Fish.
3 inch, 2/9 ; 3£,inch, 3/3 ; 4 inch, 3/9 each.
We hold the foremost reputation for all Angling Requisites.
Give us a Trial and be Convinced.
wire: TRACIS.
“Tiger” Traces, made from hand-twisted, flexible steel wire. A Trace
of enormous strength. Size X, 1/9 each ; Size Y, 2/3 each.
No. I—Steel Wire Traces, 1£ yards long, 9d. each.
No. 2—'“ Hercules ” Big Fish Wire Gimp Traces, extra special
quality, 1 yard, 9d. ; 1J yards long, 1/3 each.
LINES.
The “ Zenith ” Plaited Flax Lines, made from best quality material,
and are splendid lines for all “ Uig Fish.” To he had in lengths of
100 and 200 yards. No. 3, 6/6 ; No. 2, 6/9 ; No. 1,7/-.
No. l/o, 7/6 ; No. 2/o, 8/- per 100 yards.
CUT THIS OUT.
FILL IN THIS COUPON with your name and address), and
we ivill forward you by RETURN OF POST a copy of our
AUSTRALASIAN FISHING TACKLE CATALOGUE, the
RE Sl' AND LARGEST TACKLE LIST EVER PUBLISHED.
The talk of the Angling world. Full of useful information.
Name
Address
Bulletin, May 4.
MICK SIMMONS LTD.,
The Largest and Most Progressive Fishing Tackle House.”
Head Depot—
Haymarket, Sydney, N.S.W.
Schute, Bell & Go.
LIMITED.
Wool Stores: Central Wharf. Produce Stores:
Quay. Offices :44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Do not sell Fat Stock,
but only Wool, Sheepskins,
Hides, Tallow, etc., and
Marsupial & Rabbit Skins.
Each head of the Company a worker
in the interests of their constituents.
Proceeds protected Trust Account
Bank of N.S.W.
1
m
HOTELKEEPERS !
We will Accept Half Your Present
Monthly Cordial Bill in Payment
of an AUSTRAL PLANT.
PERFECT SODA WATER for Jd. per Dozen!
GINGER ALE and LEMONADE at 3d!
PT" 3000 MACHINES IN DAILY USE.
A Postcard will bring- our latest Catalogue, post free.
Eckersley & Sons,
Melbourne, and 3 Bond Street, Sydney.
ENO S ‘FRUIT SALT’
A HOUSEHOLD REMEDY FOR
AH Functional Derangements of the Liver, Tempo-
rary Congestion arising from Alcoholic Beverages,
Errors in Diet (Eating or Drinking), Biliousness,
Sick Headache, Giddiness, Vomiting, Heartburn,
Sourness of the Stomach, or Constipation. It is
a Refreshing and Invigorating Beverage, most
Invaluable to Travellers, Emigrants, Sailors, and
Residents in Tropical Climates.
Eno’s ‘FRDIT salt’ assists the Functions of the Liver, Bowels. Skin, and Kidneys
bv Natural Means. There is no doubt that, where it has been taken in the earliest
stages of a disease, it has, in innumerable instances, prevented a serious illness.
C AUTION.— Examine the Capsule and see that it is marked ENO'S 'FRUIT SALT,'
otherwise you have the sincerest form of flattery —IMITATION.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO Ltd., ‘ FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS, London,
S.E., Eng., by J. C. ENO'S Patent.
Sold by Chemists and Stores everywhere.
Vi
%
;.5S
THE
“gUNYI P"
’Forest Devil.
Leaves the Ground Ready for Ploughing.
«r Positively the hardest work the Farmer, Settler or Squatter is called upon
II to do is grubbing. The old method of uprooting dry or green stumps and
trees is now entirely revolutionised by the introduction on the market of the
most marvellous labor-saving device for Farmers, etc., ever invented. It is
called “ The Bunyip ” Forest Devil. This particular Forest Devil is far superior
to any other Forest Devil on the market in that it is the very essence of sim-
plicity in adjusting and in manipulating. The most admirable featuies of
“ The Bunyip” Forest Devil are that it is not only light in weight, and can be
moved with the greatest ease from tree to tree, where it can be rapidly fixed and
adjusted, but it is absolutely certain to accomplish almost any task set to it.
f The tremendous strain which can be brought to bear with “ The Bunyip Forest
Devil makes it absolutely imperative for the tree or stump to leave the ground entirely—
roots and all, no matter how big the tree or stump, how long it has been growing, or how
firmly it be rooted in the ground.
Many “land men,” once doubtful of the assertions claimed for it, are now loud in their
praises of thfe unbounded and entire satisfaction it has given in their case, and in many instances
they have paid for the cost of the machine in a very short while by hiring it to their neighbors.
it Convincing proof of its wonderful power and its durability-the quickness with which it can be adjusted
the labor and money it saves, will be found in a special and attractive catalogue John Cooper
and Sons, 287-289 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, have just issued. Copies will be sent free to every inquirer,
together with any other information required. When writing, please mention this paper.
John Cooper & Sons,
287-9 ELIZABETH STREET (Opp.
St. Francis’ Church), MELBOURNE.
A MONTHLY GUIDE for everything Aus-
tralian. That’s The Lone Hand. “A
marvellous sixpenn’orth ! ”
BOOKS WORTH READING. The new
guide to the new fiction appears in each
issue of The Lone Hand.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
graving's, new 1908 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrif,
England, 6d. llowto Get Rich, Is posted. Da. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare hook by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth, 1/6.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Quadrille Call Book,
2s. Adventures of a Flirt, Is. 3d. Parlor Tricks
and Games, Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
ls2d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is 2d post.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
CARLtsLF.’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng.' Handbook, ss. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. Tiif. Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain for the
British, 6d. How to Read Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. Theory of Value, Is 6d. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d Prof'. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, ls6d.
1
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
KMBRACIN 0
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young android, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior- guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth -covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
BOOKSELLER TO THE- COMMONWEALTH. "Wi
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamut. krs‘ Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is; post Is 3d. .Camille, Is
post.. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready'Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-.
to-Datf., Is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts. Public
Speaking Made Easy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s ed.
Sulk Instructor : Evkry Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d.
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Elements of Social
Science, 3s (id. How McDougali, Topped the Score, &
other. Verses, Is 3i. The Gay Count, Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s (id posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, os.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
01 h rs, all at 2s Gd each posted: Lee’s Priceless
Pecipes, 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying: more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. I*F“ Established 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot —
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OP MY STOCK CAN
BE CiOT FROH THIS ADVT.
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS,
POSTAL NOTE
MONEY ORDER, OR
OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Ur, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappiio, genuine,
is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d post. 1)r. Milford s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions of the King,
Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. 6d. Secret
History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is ~d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, /s Gi post.
INGKRSOLL’S WORKS, Bd, 28. HOW TO READ HEADS
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasses Advice to a
Wife, 3s fid posted. Wonderful Budget Bong
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. \V.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappiio, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook^
ls 9 d posted. Fruits of Philosophy, Is post. lOUJNKw
Recitals and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Websters Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1000 dlus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid ( wl C v P a > 3 “ d 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dtna
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore ® bloth
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pa„es, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyanck,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason by : Pame,
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.


* - O R
folds a. Bronchitis
The immediate and continuous success of the unique Peps treatment for
coughs, colds, sore throat, bronchitis, and other throat and chest ailments
is due to the fact that Peps provide, in handy tablet form, a potent
medicine which is breathed direct into the
bronchial tubes and lungs. The dotted lines in
this diagram follow the direction of the air we
breathe, whether through the nostrils (x) or the
mouth (2). Passing over the tongue (3) the
air mingles with the fumes emitted from
the little Peps tablet dissolving on the tongue,
and both are carried through the opening (4) to the throat.
Note that the Peps fumes pass down a separate passage (5) direct
to the lungs, not down the gullet (6) to the stomach which is the
way all liquid medicines must go. To swallow any medicine into the
lungs is utterly impossible; and no medicine taken into the stomach
6 . can reach the lungs.
Free from all
drowsy drugs,
always pure
and constant in
comp osition,
Peps are of
incalculable
value as a sooth-
ing, healing; re-
storing, and
germ - destroy-
ing remedy for
the throat and
chest troubles
so prevalent at
this season.
Sold Everywhere
/16 & jj- per box
g
s;:;
to the
Lungs.
■
Beauty’s Favourite.
The article which excels all others
in improving the beauty of the sßin
is naturally and deservedly beauty’s
favourite. This has been the
acknowledged and honoured
position held by Pears 9 Soap for
nearly 120 years. It won, and has
maintained that position by virtue
of its complete purity, and by the
possession of those special emollient
properties which soften, refine,
and impart natural colour to the
skin. No other soap possesses
these qualities in such a pre-
eminent degree as
PEARS
Matchless for the Complexion.
The Western Road.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
MY camp was by the Western Road —
so new and yet so old —
The track the bearded diggers trod
in roaring days of old;
The road Macquarie and his wife, a hundred
years ago,
With warlike guard and retinue, went down
in regal show.
moon had silvered all the Bush; now,
like an ai-c-ligkt high,
She flickered in a scattered scud that
dimmed the lower sky;
And, dreaming by my dying fire, whose em-
bers fainter glowed,
I saw their shadows flitting by—the People
of the Road.
I heard the clank of iron chains, and, as an
evil blast
From some tormented nether world, the con-
vict gangs went past
With sneering lips and leering eyes—gray
ghosts of buried crime,
\v no built a way for honest feet to tread
in later time.
I caught the cruel click of steel; the trained
and measured tread
Of soldiers of King George the Third, in
coats of British red;
The moon upon their muskets gleamed, as,
marching two by two,
They might have marched in better case the
eve of Waterloo.
But, dreaming by my camp-fire still, uprose
the merry horn;
A heavy stage came lumb’ring up from
Penrith in the morn,
In beaver hats, the gentlemen their driver
sat beside,
And ladies in hooped petticoats and quaint
chignons inside.
Ta-ran-ta-ra! Blue Mountains hills re-
echoed as they sung
A lilt of love and long ago—when all the
world was young.
Ta-rap-ta-ra! Their shades went by, the
bravest and the best,
The first Australian pioneers—whose graves
are in the West.
A nignt wind whispered in the gums; afar
out went the cry
Of mourning curlews on the flats, as madly
galloped by
A fugitive with pallid face and pistol butt
to band,
And, hard behind with ringing hoofs, a close
pursuing band.
Then —well-remembered in my dream —a
picture came to me
Of bitter fruit that ripened once upon a
roadside tree;
Ilow travelers shunned the haunted spot
and evermore forbode
To camp beside the hangman’s tree along
the Western Road....
White-tilted in the moonlight went rough
waggons one by one,
Piled high with household goods and stores
of settlers dead and gone—-
Blithe British yeomen and their wives, and
sons of younger sons,
Who took tradition to the West, and axes,
ploughs and guns.
These new-chum settlers tramped beside
their dusty, creaking teams,
Their minds were filled with marvels new
and olden hopes and dreams ;
Their sons’ tall sons still yeomen be, but
mostly in the vVest
They ride their silken thoroughbreds, and
ruffle with the best.
A motley crowd of eager folk, with tools and
tents in fold.
Came on Adventure’s early quest to Gul-
gong, grief or gold;
They passed me in a jostling host, with
anger or with mirth,
The fortune-seekers gathered from the ends
of all the earth.
Yea, sailormen and tailormen, and prosti-
tutes and peers,
Some honest and of good intent, some rogues
and buccaneers.
Their camp-fires lit tue darkened range,
where, by the creeks, they lay
And dreamed of nuggets in their sleep—im-
patient for the day.
Came down the road a swaying coach, with
troopers ’hind and fore —
The mounted escort thundered on by Lap-
stone Hill once more,
Their rifles at the shoulder slung, their
scabbards long and bright;
They swung around the mountain side and
rumbled out of sight.
Came up the road a swaying coach, his rib-
bons holding free,
The perfect driver tilted back his cherished
cabbage-tree.
His girl will meet him at the fails to-night
in Hartley Vale —
So, clear the track, and let her pass, the
mid-Victorian mail!
Long shadows fell across the road ; the more-
poke in the still
And solemn midnight voiced aloud his warn-
ings on the hill.
Yet, tramping slow and riding fast along
that winding track,
The People of the Road went West, and
coached and footed back.
My camp-fire died in ashes gray, as through
my dream there went
That strange procession of the Past, on pay
or plunder bent;
The teamsters, drovers, swagsmen, “lags”;
the lovers and the thieves —
Until the East was red with Dawn, the dew
upon their leaves.
They vanished' with the haunted Night;
their hope and high desire,
As ashen as the grey, cold heap that erst-
while made my fire,
Across the tree tops in the morn the golden
sunlight showed;
And clearly rose another day—along the
Western Road.
VICTOEIA.
E. J. BRADY.
The Breaking of the Chain.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IT was abominable how this man Gilray
had dominated me all the voyage from
Fremantle to Ceylon. He had grey-
green eyes that bit into my soul and maue
me S?x taneson this blazing hot day —we were
near Colombo—l had slipped down to the
bar, and each time as the beautiful troth was
lust at my lips, I had felt a pair of remorse-
less eyes tearing at the back of my hand. -Lken
his hand would gently take the glass from
me and place it on the counter. After that
he would walk to the deck, and I felt 1 must
follow. , , 11T ,,n A
“Have an apple?” he would say. It 11 do
y Apples ! Temperature lOQdeg.! A glori-
ous thirst! Barrels of the coolest and best
of beer near by! Plenty of money in my
pocket.... and apples !
You can guess how I felt! I cursed those
apples, and him, too. I had, all along, en-
deavored to reapst his influence, but I was
like a child in his hands. The whole ship
seemed to stand in awe of him. No one
crossed him or contradicted him. If only
someone else had told him to mind his own
business, I would have quickly followed
suit. Unfortunately he had adopted me,
had taken a wonderful interest in me, and
wanted to help me, so he said.
“Look here, Barker; you’ve got to leave
that beer alone. It’s your greatest enemy.
“But shouldn’t we love our enemies?”
He was not one of the laughers. He re-
plied solemnly:
“Not when they are dragging you to Hell.
We glided round the Mole into Colombo
Harbor, and were soon at anchor.
“I’m not going ashore,” said Gilray; I
want to get some water-sapphires, and I’ll
have to barter for them.”
My eyes lit up with joy. In half an hour
I’d be at the G.O.H. or the Galle Face with
five long beers before me.
“You’ll stay and keep me company,” he
added.
"I want to get some white clothes, I said
hurriedly.
“So do I. But Cherundee will be here
soon, and you can get them from him, too.”
“All right,” I said, though I was almost
crying with rage.
He walked along the deck, I following like
a dog. We passed the captain, and I noticed
how he stepped aside to let Gilray pass. I
hated him for it. Would no one oppose this
man at all?
A better-class pedlar, in snowy-white petti-
coat, with bracelets on his wrists and tor-
toise-shell combs in his thick, piled-up hair,
accosted Gilray.
“Sar! You buy stones?”
He opened a little red bag and poured out
into his brown, delicately-shaped hand a
dozen uncut stones, clear and flawless. Gil-
ray examined them closely.
“How much?”
“Sevan poun’, sar.”
Gilray got those steel gimlets of eyes on
to the Cingalese.
“You’re a scamp. You’re a cheat. These
stones are worth two pound, and that’s all
I’ll give you.”
The coffee-colored man laughed.
“I not wild Vedda man! I not fool Tamil
man! You buy or not buy—l no care.”
He dropped his stones back into the bag
and turned. I could have embraced him.
He was the first man that had stood up to
Gilray. But the latter said deliberately:
“You will sell me those stones at my price
yet.”
Coffee gave him a startled glance, and
moved away. My heart sank again. I knew
what would happen.
Happy tourists dropped into the catamar-
ans and went ashore. The big coal barges
came alongside. The naked coal slaves in a
long line passed their little baskets of coal
from hand to hand, moaning a dolorous tune
the while. A stench from hundreds of dirty,
oily human bodies filled the air. And we sat
still.
The pedlar came back again and again,
lowering his price each time; but always-;
Gilray said: “Two pound, and not one cent'
more.”
Hours passed. Back came the tourists
with toy elephants and toy rickshaws, and
all the other rubbish of the bazaars. The
coal barges drifted away. The pedlars were
being bundled off the ship.
“Sar,” said Coffee, dangling his bag
temptingly before Gilray, “lars’ shance! I
go shore ! Tree poun’!”
“No,” said Gilray; “two.”
The man moved towards the gangway.
Gilray was beaten.
Then Gilray beckoned a sailor to him, and,
putting something in his hand, whispered to
him.
“That ugly old Snuff-and-Butter?” laughed
the sailor.
“AH right, my man,” said Gilray ; “where’s
the bag?” He put out his hand.
Coffee’s eyes lit up exultingly. So did
mine.
Gilray took the bag, then pushed two sove-
reigns into the pedlar’s hand and quickly
moved away.
“No ! No !” shrieked Coffee. “By my God !
No! I no sell” But the sailor had
stepped forward, and deftly thrown him,
struggling and protesting, into the little
wherry at the foot of the gangway. Gilray
had won. The beast!
“Come, Barker, down to my cabin, and
we’ll have a good look at my bargain,” Gil-
ray said exultingly.
I followed him, still like a dog at heel.
He sat down on his bunk, and, taking hold
of the bag by the bottom, emptied its con-
tents out on to the white quilt. My eyes
opened wide. Out fell about a score of bits
of gravel picked up anywhere on the Galle
Face road !
While Gilray was bribing the sailor, that
angel of a pedlar, seeing what was in the
wind, had substituted this bag for the other.
“What do you think of that?” said Gil-
ray, looking as helpless and indignant as
anyone would have looked in the same cir-
cumstances.
“I’ll tell you what I think,” I said, get-
ting up. “I’m going to the bar, to have six
beers, and. if you come interfering, I’ll
punch your fat, ugly nose. Do you hear
tnat. you swindling old sausage!”
The chain was broken. I was free.
GENUNG.


V
\
Every Picture
Tells A Story.”
Price 2/9 per bottle (six bottles 15/3), at all chemists
and stores, and post free from Foster McClellan Co.,
76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
WHEN BRIGHT DAYS ARE DISMAL
Sunny days bring joy to well folks. But to the man or woman
with an aching back, every day is dark- —just a dismal round of
suffering. Can’t work well, enjoy play, or even take restful sleep.
Always that dull, throbbing backache.
Have you thought that your kidneys may be disordered? Sick
kidneys signal for help. The first call may be lameness or pain in
the back—scanty, painful or too frequent urination—recurring
headaches or dizzy spells —nervousness, or a constant dead-tired
feeling.
Avert the serious kidney diseases —dropsy, gravel, diabetes,
Bright’s disease. Cure the weakened kidneys with Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pills, a remedy that strengthens weak kidneys, stirs
sluggish kidneys to action, soothes and heals inflamed, congested
kidneys. Backache is cured, and a perfect filtering of the blood is
restored.
Two Sydney Men Cured.
Mr. Geo. Hurcum, 63 Campbell Street, Glebe, says:—
“ I strained my back about two and a half years ago, and
shortly afterwards caught a chill, which settled in my back.
From then until quite lately I have been suffering agony with
backache. At times the pain was so severe that it was im-
possible for me to bend or turn, Hearing of cures effected
by Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills I decided to give them a
trial. After taking a course I was perfectly cured, and I
have had no return of the trouble. Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills are a boon to all who suffer with backache.”
Mr. Frederick Bradd, 34 Pearl Street, Newtown,
Sydney, says:—“l caught a severe cold, which settled in
my kidneys, and caused severe backache. I suffered in-
tense pain, and could not stoop or move about freely. I
did not know what to do to get ease, for the remedies I used
did me no good. Seeing an advertisement for Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pills led me to try these pills. They did me
good right from the first dose, and in a short time I was
cured. I have no sign of backache now, and attribute my
cure solely to Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills.”
SJNOfI
Backache
Kidney
PILLS.
Nocturne.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
BAVID, the King, grew weak and old.
And in his veins the blood ran cold ;
At night no covering could warm
The life still lurking in his form;
Wherefore in bed with him was laid,
On either side, a naked maid.
It was their nightly task abhorred
To lie, close pressed, against their lord,
Who, from their youth’s hot, hurrying flood,
Drew forth a glow that thawed his blood.
The years, the ruthless years, advance
With all the legions of Mischance;
Youth in the gloom of Time is hid,
And I grow old, as David did;
And to my bed companions twain
Creep night by night, and there remain—
Not maids, desirable and fair,
But pale Regret and cold Despair
Lie close—so, close —till break of day,
And slowly chill my life away.
N.S.W.
O. C. CABOT.
Where the Big Drum Grows.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IT is a Sunday of blistering heat. The
air quivers. The iron roof of the bar-
racks is as the gable-end of Hades.
The captain’s wife hr i charge of the meet-
ing. She is a woman, whose face, shorn of
every superficial beauty, proclaims a life of
endurance and labor. Her hair, dragged
back harshly into Army plait, is greying.
Her eyes are cavernous.
“Let us run the race that is set before
us,” she says. Truly hers has been a hard
one. With stoical patience she continues her
discourse. Of those addressed, many are
quite expressionless. Some are apathetic as
at an oft-told tale. Others bubble with ir-
reverent mirth. She exhorts them to feats
of moral strength, and mentions instances of
Divine encouragement received in times of
spiritual lassitude —Divine help out of tight
places. The soldiers are rich in interjection,
not always to the point. Sometimes one in
ecstasy assaults the drum.
“Many a time, friends, when weak and
weary”— (Interrupted chorus of “Alley-
loo-yah! Pr-aaaise Him!”) “and feeling like
giving way”— (“Ay Looard. Tha’s th’ way
we'feel ’ithput Thy staff to ’elp us,” remarks
the seated captain to his Maker.)
“I look aloft and gather stren’th,” pro-
ceeds 1 the lass.
“Pr-aaise Him,” grunt the corps.
“Praise ’is name,” shouts the captain.
The cornetist plays a note —a false one.
“Ah ! my friends” —the speaker again takes
up her tale—“some of you are worldly—
you are all for ambition.” (This on
the bulk of the listeners is a gross libel,,
ambition among them being as yet unborn.
They, however, accept the insult —the only
disclaimers coming from among the band.)
“Money is your Gard.”
“Ay, Looard,” solos the captain. Groans
come from the rank and file.
“Dress” —here she looks severely at the
smart set sitting aloof —“dress is your stum-
bling block. Cast it off,” she urges dramati-
cally. “Wear sack-cloth and ashes —and get
saved.”
“Yea, Loard,” chants the Army.
“Open the eyes of them that is blind 1
Alley-looyah ! Fire a volley !”
Out of the medley the voice of a hobble-
de-hoy is lifted.
“Can’t get shaved to-day, Miss,” he says
waggishly, “it’s ’airdressers’ ’oliday.”
But this sinner is quickly crushed. The
captain’s eye nails him. The captain’s voice
assails him.
“Get ’e out, Satan,” it commands. “We
doe’ant want ’e yefe—we got no room for ’e
in this yere barracks, so get ’e eout.”
Satan, thus located in the person of Billy
Brown, glad to escape with a caution, gets
out.
The captain’s wife sits down to nurse her
youngest-born. Into the breach caused by
this act of motherliness the -captain leaps
and starts a rollicking chorus, in which
“holy” and “jolly” rhyme with nice effect.
He leaps about meanwhile, and tweaks his
comrade’s hair in excess of religious joy. He
is a jovial rascal. The church is to him a
circus, and he is the chief clown. He takes
life and soul-saving easily. For every ounce
of flesh his strenuous wife has lost in the
cause, he has gained a pound. He is a
gross personage—his proper role that of a
titbit on some cannibal isle. A sly grin
simmers in his small black eyes, always at
variance with the words of truth upon his
unshaven lip. Under his guidance the
meeting wakes up and shakes itself.
“Why is the meeting not clapping?” he
asks. “Clap!” he says. “Clap” like the
Dev —ahem! like the Devil was ’andy. An’
so ’e is, brothers an’ sisters, too ’andy—
waitin’ to slip into our ’earts. So clap—
clap the ole Devil off the grass—we got no
time fer ’im.”
The hearers put vigor into the movement.
“Praise the Loard!” he exclaims fer-
vently. “Praise ’is ’oly name. Make a
glad noise unto the Loard. That’s my tex’,
frien’s. You doe-ant get them silent praises
from Me. I woe-ant ’ave that laid at my
door. If it’s kid-glove and frock-coat me-
thods o’ servin’ the Loard you want you’d
best go to church.”
He looks with awful severity at his fol-
lowers. “There’s plenty of ’em round,” he
adds; “empty for the most part, or filled
with ’ippocrites in ’igh ’ats.”
He lets this stern indictment sink rn.
Then his natural gaiety asserts itself. Clap-
ping loudly he cries—
“ Make a glad noise! Pr-r-aaise ’im!
Praise ’is ’oly name! Shout ’ia praises unter
the hends of the hearth !”
They make a glad noise—under cover of
it many slip out —a few slip in.
The captain’s wife, worn out with myriad
■duties, closes her eyes and ears' to her hus-
band’s tricks of trade. She is supposed to
be lost in pious thought. Perhaps she sleeps.
'The Lord in His goodness has perchance de-
veloped in her the faculty of slumbering
through glad noises. She surely deserves
His consideration.
Then .he sings, a lively hymn with full
band accompaniment, and stamps about, wav-
ing his arms. Now and then he turns his
rollicking eves ceilingwards, wipes the smirk
from his features, and rudely orders the
Almighty to send “showers o’ blessin.’ ”
If earthly arrogance will open Heaven’s
reservoirs the meeting should be inundated.
■One gathers that, should irrigation be with-
held, it is the captain’s intention to give his
Deity “nothing.” It is withheld. The
captain’s.command has seemingly miscarried,
lost in the post.
Next the captain recites his oft-told “ex-
periences”—how he, once the blackest of
black sheep, was wooed into the fold. “I
used to patronise the Army for the fun of
the thing,” he says (indulgent smiles among
Lis comrades) “and make eyes at the girls.”
(Laughter, and a conscious sidling among
the Army bonnets.) The captain leers at
his weary help-meet. “That’s where I
■caught my wife,” he says. (Great laughter
in which the narrator gaily joins.) “Or, to
be more exack, where my wife caught me.”
Roars of laughter—the entire corps rocks
with glee. The weary wife alone remains
unamused. To her, the “catch,” whichever
way she took it, was a fatal one—a tragedy.
Decorum is partly restored —handkerchiefs,
brought out to wipe away tears of hysterical
merriment, are restored to pockets.
“Ah, brothers, I didn’t ’ave no use for the
Looard in them days”
“Hallelooyah!” from a tactless adherent.
“No, black Tom Pascoe ’ad no use for the
Looard,” repeats the captain. “But, praaise
’is ’oly name, the Looard ’ad use fer Tom
Pascoe.” Great interruption. Groans of
joy.
A frenzy of interjection arises among the
band, and a quavering voice among the lasses
sings:
Black hearts shall be cleaned
And sinners be gleaned.
Experiences from the ruck follow. Sister
Thomas is asked to “give it lip,” She does.
She is the Gibson girl of the corps, and
knows it. While telling of the snares she
has providentially escaped, she throws
glances from her pretty eyes right and left,
always taking in the wicked back benches,
where some young sports from the city give
her every encouragement. They are all good
osrlers. Under the circumstances Sister
Thomas is loth to resume her seat. She is
enjoying the situation. Not so her legiti-
mate swain, Brother Pembartby, swart and
thickset. He, under the promptings of the
Devil, would gladly make a holocaust of the
back bepches with his wind instrument —-
even if he were “cut” by the Army ever after-
wards.
Comrades rise in turn. Some mutter un-
intelligibly in their beards. Some wag the
tongue brazenly. Most of them, in spite of
direct facial evidence to the contrary, claim
to have been sheer devils. One with a small
'downy head tells of a murderous impulse he
once had, while the Devil, in the shape of
Beer, tempted him. Groans of understand-
ing arise from the brethren. Another owns
midst a palpable gloom, to having once
backslid—into a Sunday concert. While
there he felt a something—an Intangible
Iresence—not repellent, he would have his
comrades know ; rather the reverse, indeed
Under its influence he had forgotten his
sacred obligations, his Army badge, his aged
mother, and had decided on going the “whole
hog,” and would noiv have been Damned
(groans and moans) had not he, in some oc-
cult fashion, discovered the foot of the Some-
thing to be (Oh, horror!) cloven. The
Devil, evidently more of a fool than is sup-
posed, had spoilt an otherwise effective dis-
guise by omitting to wear boots.
‘ During this windbag’s turn many of his
comrades, knowing him for a bore, sink
deep into their collars. Even the captain is
tired. But always able to turn even a
bore to good account, he seizes this oppor-
tunity of sorting out his pockets. He still
hobnobs with the Almighty by a turning-up
of his eyes occasionally, but his hallelujahs
have become mechanical, and as tinkling
brass. He counts odd coppers, utters cries
of praise, and tots up a butcher’s bill, all at
the same time. He chides boys, and glances
roguishly under Army bonnets; he searches
a War Cry for some elusive item, and at
last, unable to bear with the bore longer, he
simply sings him down.
At this moment the lass on sentinel duty
at the door opens it in answer to an impera-
tive knock, and Dives enters out of the heat.
The face of Dives is broad and mottled
liKp brawn. He rustles in an overall of
white oilskin. A ninety-shilling .Panama is
jammed down to his ears, and motor goggles
are strapped against its brim. Striding for-
ward, he sits without ceremony beside the
drum. His gaitered legs plant themselves
among the extremities of the “saved.”
The captain, meeting the ferocious stare
of the motorist, falters in his supplication
and becomes feeble with surprise. The
corps loses its grin of things Divine, and
speculates on the visitor’s reason for rubbing
shoulders with them. The soldiers decide,
and rightly, that his car is being mended in
the heat and dust of “outside” by a dapper
chauffeur, and that he is taking shelter.
Thus Dives becomes pre-eminent and the
Loard recedes to second place.
Tom Pascoe brings prayer to an untimely
conclusion. “The treasurer will now take
up your offering,” he announces, vaguely;
he feels now to be the turn of the tide. The
Lord moves in a mysterious way, he cogi-
tates. Even a motor-hog may be “an instru-
ment in His hands.” But as the tambourine
on its tour approaches the motorist, a loud
“toot-toot” announces that the repairs to
his chariot are complete. He rises. Tension
among .the faithful is great. To cover it,
they fire volleys with gusto.
Harshly summoning the treasurer, Dives
drops into the collection something.
In a trice he has left the building and the
neighborhood, enveloped in dust and the
stench of petrol.
The Army falls over itself to collect from
the plate the offering of Dives —a three-
penny-piece.
WEEROONA.


The
Oil Engine
ft r /,1 A?v - ' . :<• •'y.v'.' •* - •>;
For STATIONARY
and MARINE
PURPOSES
•: No '•/
Carburetter
or
Vaporiser.
:
No
Ignition
makes the following' claims upon your attention :—-
r—lt uses cheap lamp oil (such as kerosene), and other residuals. . ■
2 The oil is injected directly into the cylinder, thus dispensing with unre-
liable and inefficient vaporisers.
3 It is very simple in construction, there being no electric ignition or other
complicated mechanism.
4 Its speeds are such that electric generators and centrifugal pumps may
be coupled direct. '
5 No skilled labor is required, the supply of fuel and lubricant being all
the attention necessary. ( •
FULL PARTICULARS FROM
The Westinghouse Brake Company of Australasia Ltd.,
14 MARTIN PLACE. SYDNEY.
Queensland Agents: Holmes & Church, Brisbane.
Wyough an error t)
V cut;-does , not straw
•he- Automatic
attachment
Latest Standard HOT POINT
ELECTRIC IRON. Instantly
connected. Hot Iron and
Cool Handle.
MADE in 31b. and 61b. weights ; in sizes 2f " x s§", and 4" x 61" •
with a 330, 500 and 575 wattage. Prices 25“/-, respectively’
Xt has a pressed .steel top, metal covered plug—easy to re-
move—a glittering mirror finish—and, over all, our guarantee
Ihoroughly efficient, for both light and heavy work; simple, yet
Strong ; clean, handy and inexpensive. Can also be supplied in
larger sizes for Laundries and Tailors up to 301 b.
FURTHER PARTICULARS ON APPLICATION TO
W. G. WATSON & CO., Limited,
CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
- AGENTS FOR. ; , > , / \V r C
Murray’s English Ale. Club Rum.
: Dog Head Stout. King’s Liqueur Whisky.
Manufacturers of Aerated "Waters and Cordia’
''.lll *
Magnesia
I
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see that
“ Dinneford & Co.”
is on every bottle
and label.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
MAGNESIA
The Universal Kemedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
ifi
fgj
2 horsepower
•‘Farmer’s Friend ”
Portable.
engines~work
ON OIL OR QAS.
Guaranteed
2 Years.
Also Wood*
Sawing, Chaffcutting
and Pumping Outfits,
4,8, or 12-h.p. complete,
Portable or Stationary.
2-h.p.
3/,
4 „
6
Stationary
99
99
99
99
Portable,
99
99
99
99
, £25,
35.
45.
65.
85.
32.
46.
56.
96.
128.
-Terms:
91
II
99
99
99
99
99
99
99
£lO deposit, and £! month.
1/5/-
1/10/-
22
2/5/-
28
3/-/
1/5
1/10/-
20
2/-/-
3-/-
43
4/10-
ON TERMS
All complete, with Tanks and
__Pipes, f.o.b. Sydney. You have
no fitting's to buy—everything
Is supplied by us.
Larger Engines at propor-
tionate Prices and Terms.
Write for Catalogue.
g HODGSON.
49 York Street, SYDNEY
339 Collins St., MELBOURNE
New Digestions for Old
—strength for debility—cheerfulness for despondency—health for ill.
health such are the good results following a course of Beecham’s
Pills. If you are suffering from indigestion or any of the complaints to
which it gives rise you will find the World’s Family Medicine remove
the trouble and restore the organs to healthy action. This, at least,
has been the experience of hundreds of thousands of people who have
been led to adopt it during the past three generations and there is no
reason why it should not be your experience, also. Dyspepsia, liver
and kidney derangements, biliousness, headaches, sickness, constip-
ation are some of the many disorders from which you may find relief
After Taking
BEECHAM’S
PILLS.
jir
Sold everywhere in boxes, price 1/U (56 pills) & 2/9 (168 pills),
BUSINESS MEN and OTHERS in need of FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE
SHOULD CONSULT
CITY FINANCE COMPANY LIMITED,
Palmer’s Chambers, 289 Pitt St., Sydney,
who LEND MONEY on any REASONABLE SECURITY
from 10 PER CENT, per annum. FRtn. Mcwiluam. Manager.
HOWTO
GROW HAIR
A Simple, Safe and Reliable Way that Produces Surprising Results.
NEW PREPARATION CAUSES BIG STIR AMONG HAIR SPECIALISTS.
The above clearly shows Results from a Short Course of my True Hair-Growing Compound.
10,000 FREE TRIAL BOXES.
Those who are troubled with falling hair, dandruff,
baldness, itching scalp, etc., know full well the
humiliation that they cause. There is no need, how-
ever,, of such conditions. These troubles can be
quickly overcome by my True Hair Grower.
I am not an advertising quack, but am a business
man. My hair began to grow thin about the time
I reached the age of thirty. When I had reached the
age of thirty-five the top of my head was quite bald.
I had considerable pride, and sought for something
to cause renewed growth. I invested in every pre-
paration that I could see or hear of, and here let me
say that not only did I try all the English so-called
restorers, but those of Continental Europe. I also
visited specialists. My experimenting cost me many
sovereigns and considerable time—yet' the hairs came
not. I had given up the idea of ever growing hair
again. One afternoon, while enjoying a brief busi-
ness respite by an Alpine trip, I fell in with an old
collegiate chemist, whose hair was particularly plen-
tiful. I jokingly remarked that I wished he could
spare some of his hair for .my benefit, This led him
to tell me that he understood the human hair as well
as a good dentist understands teeth. He wrote out a
formula, and suggested that I have a quantity of the
Big G
Berated Goldenseal
Compound
A safe and simple remedy for
Bronchitis, Cafarrh, Hay Fever
Inflammations, Irritations, ulcer-
ations of ALL mucous membranes
or linings of the nose, throat,
stomach or urinary organs.
AT CHEMISTS
Why not cure yourself
Treatise with jach bottle
or mailed on request.
Hie Enas Chemical Co.
Cmdmati, Ohio,
U.S.A.
fgj
gjf
Superior to
INJECTIONS
ICUBEBS and
COPAIBA.
Cures the same
diseases without
inconvenience
in
Each Capsule bears the name aW ? “'
gjfjg
compound prepared. I did this a few days later. I
was astonished to see the hair coming forth after
several applications, and within six weeks my head
was covered by a firm, yet soft, black growth of hair.
Since then the hair on my head has been as luxuriant
as when in my school days. Having arranged for
the legal right to do so, I have for some time been
privately selling this marvellous hair-growing com-
pound- I hold over one thousand letters from people
who have actually grown new hair through the
medium of my true hair grower. I do not pretend
to say it is the only hair grower in the world—l am
not interested in decrying others—but I do assert
that it is the most reliable, and in the end by far the
cneapest.
Baldness, Dandruff, Itching, etc.,
Free Trial Coupon.
Cut out this Coupon and send, with 3 stamps
to cover postage, etc., and I will immediately
large trial box of my True Hair Grower
Stteet sJdSev U elSh ’ ■ De P fc R 14 ' 107 Castlerea^
CANT
B
BEAT
RIAR
IPIPES
ALL SHAPES
|/each post free i M
Quality Not Better
in a
Guinea Pipe
MICK SIMMONS
srojvsr.
snuiEKsepgfiSi, roßAccwisrs
SHOULD SEND FQK OVK TXADE UST
iHMSI
6RIMAULTS INDIAN CIGARETTES
Uifficnltv in expectoration. Asthma. Nervous Coughs
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediatnTi?
relieved by GRIM AULT & Co’s
ETTES. Soid to, all Chemists. OIGAR.
ED COMPOUND.”- _
for doughs & Colds. Of 40 years


ARCHITECTS specify
and have a Fire-Proof,
Sound-Proof
and Vermin-Proof
DIVIDING WALL.
Write for our Catalogue, or call and inspect.
MACK LTD.,
Royal Insurance Buildings,
Cor. PITT and SPRING STREETS, SYDNEY.
Melbourne Office: 19 Queen Street.
ELECTROMOTORS LIMITED
Manchester.
COMPLETE INSTALLATIONS of ELECTRIC POWER
PLANTS IN WORKS, MILLS and FACTORIES.
Queensland Government Printing Office equipped with 58 of our Motors.
' Australasian Agency :
T. K. STEANES, 39 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. [2
wAUtI Pv . Porfcla »d Cement, rein-
S- Askestos. It has the strength and
quadi Asbestos?' tT* T* 4*4
light, durable, cool, ant- and'
appearance.
Mad ® S, f te ® {or roofing, Red, drey and Purple.
In Sheets Bft. 2Mn. x 4ft. for Walls, Lining
and Ceilings.
lse rilnJul v®fi tra, j? n Governments; also for covering
Churches, Villas, Homesteads, Dairies, Silos, etc. "
Write for Illustrated Catalogue “B ” to Sole Importers,
JAMES HARDIE & CO.,
Circular Quay West, SYDNEY; and
581=583 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
WOLFE’S
The Family Stimulant.
FOR MEN—-
FOR WOMEN
sMil
Motor Driven
*BON ACCORD*
STEEL LINED
CENTRIFUGAL
PUMP
For PUMPING
SLIMES, TAIL-
INGS, etc. Also
for DREDGING
ORES, GRAVEL,
SAND & STONES
m
€
ft
“BON ACCORD”
Centrifugal Pumps.
HIGH EFFICIENCY.
F°r Sand Pumping, Sewerage, Salvage# Condensing;
Irrigating, Draining, DocK Pumping, Mine Pumping, etc.
J.WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR, Ltd., 82 Pitt St.,Sydney
ENGINEERS,
IRON FOUNDERS,
BOILER MAKERS,
&c., &c.
MEPHA
FERGUSON
PROPRIETARY LIMITED.
Governinq Directors
(MEPHAN FERGUSON
(ROBERT SHAND
■
uopjor)
:sj|jo M pm
Manufacturers of
WROUGHT IRON,
CAST IRON, and
STEEL PIPES.
fgj
(3236
\5221
ii .
■
*
ELECTRICAL and GENERAL ENGINEERS,
Have Removed Offices & Workshops to 307, 309, 311 Kent St.
(near Erskine
Street),
gj
Knowles Steam Pumps
Jm
Adapted for All
Services.
m
**>
s m
M
m
m
»»*■
i
mm
fgjfg
Outside Packed
Type for—
Mine Sinking, Cyanide Works, Battery
Supply, Tank Filling, Boiier Feeding, etc.
a>so ELECTRIC and POWER PUMPS.
SOLE AGENTS
... FOR ...
AUSTRALASIA
m
If /
f§ei
M
Engineers 8 Machinery Merchants, 60 Clarence St., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
j
fgjfgj
For MINES,
CONTRACTORS,
TIMBER HAULAGE.
made; in sections
For Easy Transport.
m
fgj
2*
h
!**
CO
Co
f
One Fast
One Loose
OSOOI pure
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD.} 263 Oeorsre St.,
Sydney ; 525 Collins St., Melbourne.
