

Tie EMBODIMENT OF PERFECTION-
m
■
Wfc
R. C*. WATKINS CO.,
107 Korrt Sydney,
Mining 1 and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLAN IS ALWAYS AVAIL ABL
fir
HcLaren
Road Locomotives.
The Most Powerful
Hauling Engines.
535 Kent Street, Sydney,
486 Collins Street, Melbourne.
B.A. Agent: C. C. DELAND, Victoria Square, Adelaide.
HOBA.RX.
—rpm
‘ ;‘j , .. * '
Radley s Orient fjotel.
PIONEEI>
LEATHER BELTING *V.
Guarantee!*.
J. C. Lucfowioi & Son, Ld.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
ƒhd
"Take it back.
I must have—
HUTTON’S
Pine-Apple Brand I
hgf
CHUBB’S SAFES
FOR JEWELLERS
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets is
recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the diges-
tive organs.
frtKEHZE
J
L_
ƒg
For INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially-prepared Tablets acts most
beneficially when taken daily after meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
Vj
IEET
Sydney .
A V» a. A'
>V y✓ y
%
Money advanced upon all Securities at Reasonable
Rates of Interest.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
THIS COMPANY WAS FORMED TO SUPPRESS USURY.
And at MELBOURNE, BRISBANE and NEWOASTLE.
DRINK Ml
& St-, '
PABCO
(Asbestos Coated Malthoid).
For all classes of buildings PABCO ROOFING will be found the
coolest and most satisfactory.
The amalgamation of MALTHOID and Asbestos leaves nothing to
be desired. Its cool ivory tint keeps perfectly clean and is restful
to look upon, as well as delightful to live or work under.
PABCO can be supplied in white or colo&d green or terra-cotta.
THE PARAFFINE PAINT COMPANY, CH ALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
D. S. Evans, Australasian Manager.
HOPPER WAGGONS.
ROAD-MAKING PLANTS
A SPECIALTY.
THE- CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY L l 9
hfg
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY L-?
Locomotive Builders,
General, Mining and*
Agricultural
Engineers.
Bridge Builders.
Machinery Merchants,
7 Bent St. (op. Lands Office) Sydney, N.S. W
rm
7/
h
MELIDQN SPA WATER
«It is a dream of the Physician realised,” so says a medical man
d Heiidnn fr*. HFITT)OW SPA is Nature's Eliminant.
DEWHURST § HALLORAN, Ltd.,
Asents.
The Bulletin
To]. 32.—N0. 1648.]
[Thursday, September 14, 1911.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


The Only Standard Work on Factory Organisation and Costs Ever Published.
FACTORY ORGANISATION AND COSTS
Dm. I ■ r- r- mi anj mm.,
By J. LEE NICHOLSON.
Treats
mi Organisation and '.Cost Finding,
Indirect Expenses, General Intro, t
George
Vlage Systems, Analysis of Cost and Accounting, Distrihntine- oi
.... to Forms and Systems, Designs and Explanations Pi, h .k, M ' • . n f 1
Raw Material, Cost Records, and ma/v other chapters of great interest. ’ ‘
to Pay/i Prospectus Paste l to Any Address on. Request.
Roberts fin & Co. Prop. Ltd., 238 Pitt Street, Sydney.
FOR THE VOICE! THROAT!!
Hudson’s “Eu menthol
LUNGS!!!
- -ym ‘ ■ 1 ■ :?•>••/
AIM IDEAL REMEDY
;hosacvh "o
• *i>oioav«
§§§
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats, Bronchitis.
Influenza, and the Prevention of Consumption.
Containing No Cocaine or other Poisonous Drug.
Suited for Old and Young.
Tiik Lancet says:Proved to be effective bactericidal!.'
as is creosote.”
Unlike cough medicines, “ EUAIENTHOL JUJt-’IiKS” do
iioi interfere with the Digestion; on the contrary, they
have a beneficial effect, 'as their antiseptic properties
prevent abnormal fermentation of the food when taken
after .meals.
.■■• \ \ ■
SOLr> ON'.Y IN TINS, Price t/6.
HODSOrS EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL
Sold by All Chemists, or
Post Free oii*Receipt of
16 in Stamps
ffghghfg
THE RED PAGE
A SONG OF PIPES AND TREES.
I know not if the trees of Aready
Had broader leaves,
Or if old suns wove finer ’broidery
Than our sun weaves
On the warm quiet of the dimpled ground.
In Tempo’s vale was laughter, and glad
sound
Of waters free;
I know not if the brown gods laughed as well
On Ossa’s knee
As the brown maids who hear the summer
tell
Tales ’ne'ath this tree.
They say Apollo had a reedy pipe
In Thessaly—
The world was all with wonder music ripe
On land and sea—
He blew his silver breath into the air,
Enchanted naiads with their dripping hair
Hose from the streams . . .
Perchance he would have changed his pipe
for mine
Whose incense seems
To make my couch beneath these boughs
divine
With olden dreams.
My pipe can call through rings of pearly
smoke
The old blue day,
All that Apollo saw beneath his oak
In ages grey,
All that the past upon the present spills
In joy of wonder through these shadows fills
My pipe with sound,
And all things seek at its enchanted call
This quiet ground—
I hold the flute Athene’s hand let fall
And Marsyas found.
DAVID MCKEE WEIGHT.
FRANCIS GRIERSON
To those who are interested in the liter-
ary expression of the reaction towards mys-
ticism the name of Francis Grierson is
known as a writer of original thought and
considerable charm of style. Maeterlinck,
chief of his clan, has praised his essays on
Modem Mysticism and The Celtic Tempera-
ment. The latter certainly deserves to stand
with the lectures of Renan and Arnold, and
the essay of Havelock Ellis as the most il-
luminating treatments of the subject.
Grierson is an American, and has told the
story of his life before the Civil War, with
a large historical background, in The Valley
of Shadoibs, which is in the form of a
superior kind of fiction. He went to Paris
in ISG9, and saw the end of the Second Em-
pire. Before the break-up, lie met many lit-
erary celebrities, and at this distance of
time sets down his memories of. them in
Parisian Portraits-i; Stephen Swift, 35.).
If you turned off the dusty thoroughfare
into a quiet, shady street, and found an un-
suspected gallery of good portraits in a little
house with a mellow light, you would have
something like the character of Grierson’s
verbal pictures. Much has been written,
and doubtless much will be written, about
Dumas pfere, Verlaine, Mallarme, Lamartine,
the Princess Racowitza. and others in his
collection—all remarkable figures in a
period of picturesque characters. They were
big enough to give many varied impressions,
and those of Grierson are fresh and original.
He was taken to the residence of Dumas
on the Boulevard Malesherbes.
As one thinks of a lion with his shaggy
mane full of the jungle-burs of adventure,
so I can see the author of Monte Cristo as
he appeared on that memorable evening.
Standing about were women friends—ac-
tresses, writers, poets, attracted by a world
of romance, symbolised in the figure seated
in the middle of the salon. I was instantly
impressed by two things : the figures on the
walls and the attitude of the poet. He sat
like a silent oracle surrounded by a crowd
of female admirers, the whole company set
off by panels representing life-sized figures
from Goethe’s great drama: Faust, Mephis-
topheles, Marguerite. There were no other
pictures in the room... Half indifferent he
sat, as some handsome young woman would
stroke his head, while another would place
her hand on his shoulder, as they might
have done with an old lion long tamed and
without teeth. There was nothing to dis-
tract the mind from the harmony of idea'
and personality; the company of women
might have been part of the frescoes, and
Dumas the creator of Faust instead of
Monte Cristo.
A romantic Bacchus, who had written
Monte Cristo and compiled a dictionary of
culinary art, what were his views of men
and things? The form of a face corresponds
to the spirit beneath, and had I been old
enough to judge. I might have guessed that
this wonderful man was above all things a
lover of sumptuous living, rare wines and
rich dinners, romantic suppers after dram-
atic triumphs, the table decorated with
human flowers from theatre, circus and
opera. I might have guessed that this im-
mense frame was never made for fasts and
vigils, and that, like Handel, he might have
ordered a dinner' for three and cleared it off
himself. And what musft have been his
cowers of digestion! Think of the barrels of
dynamic force consumed by such a human
generator in 50 years. . . the quantity and
quality of the viands that went to produce
books like Monte Cristo and Les Trois Moits-
qvetaires!
Grierson met Verlaine at a cafe where Jean
Moreas occupied a corner.
Once in a while he (Moreas) would fix
his eyes on his friend, and say with cnadish
glee: “J'ai du talent! Moi, j’ai du talent.”
M. Anatole France had just written a nat-
tering notice of the poet’s first success Le
I'Her in Itassionne. There was Verlaine sit-
ting before us, like a sleepy lion; others here
and there playing dominoes ; the general calm
broken now and then by the cry of exuberant
naivete : “Moi, j’ai du talent!”
His account of Verlaine does not add any-
thing to that which we have, had in Lepelle-
tier’s biography, but it is sympathetic, and
he says of his poetry: “There is more hu-
man feeling in two lines from Verlaine :
11 pleut sur 10 toit
Et.il plenr dans mon cceitr
than there is in the whole of Milton’s 1 Para-
dise Lost. To Grierson heart is the core of
Art, and the exquisite takes precedence of
the powerful.
Mallarme appealed to him more than any
of the other poets when he visited Paris in
ISS9, and the Quakerish meetings at Mal-
larme's house were in strange contrast with
the brilliant salons of the romantic Empire.
Locke’s New Novel
W. J. Locke is a novelist whose simple
purpose is to entertaim His stories move
in a world of their own, which has only a
superficial resemblance to the world we
know ; but the characters in it act consist-
ently, and seldom fail to hold the reader's in-
terest. If you have a well-made plot,
sprightly and often, times epigrammatic dia-
logue, it does not matter if the characters
are as unreal as those of the Arabian Nights
Entertainment.
Locke might, however, vary his formula.
The last few novels are built on the same
plan. Marcus Ordeyne, Septimus, Simon the
Jester, and Dr.' Quixtus are chips from the
same ecceptric block. And . the central idea
of his latest story, The Glory of Clementina
Wing (Dymock’s Book Arcade), is that of
Simon the Jester turned upside down.
It iiiay be remembered that Simon started
out on a career of active benevolence, which
led him into curious adventures. He quix-
otically scattered a fortune, and reaped a
magnificent crop of spiritual energy. In the
new yarn, Dr. Quixtus, who shares the
honors with Clementina, is crushed like Job
by a series of misfortunes, humiliated and
embittered, and then turns deliberately to do
evil to humanity. The perversion of his
simple nature is just as reasonable as that
of Othello’s ; but the methods adopted for
carrying out his fell design are rather ab-
surd. They serve to tangle up the charac-
ters, bring Quixtus into close relationship
with the famous artist Clementina Wing,
and lead to a settlement which is entirely
satisfactory.
Clementina is described in a sentence-
When her figure, which, as women ac-
quaintances would whisper to each other, but
never (not daring) to Clementina, had, after
all, its possibilities, was hidden by a straight,
shapeless, color-smeared, painting smock, and
all of Clementina as Cod made her that was
visible, save her capable hands, was the
swarthy face with its harsh contours, its
high cheek bones, its unlovely, premature fur-
rows, surmounted by the bedraggled hair
that would have "disgraced a wigwam,
Tommy Burgrave may be pardoned for re-
garding her less as a woman than a painter
of genius who somehow did not happen to be
a man.
When a figure is wrapped up in such in-
volved clauses and stabbed with such a pro-
fusion of commas, anyone would be par-
doned for regarding Locke as a careless
writer. That sentence,, however, is excep-
tional ; he is elsewhere clear and straight-
forward, and his account of Clementina’s
motor trip through France has many hashes
of fine description.
Clementina’s most interesting talk is with
Tommy Burgrave, the non-eccentric relief
character. Tommy has just been telling her
that she is a genius:—
“A woman has only one mission, to marry
and get babies... . Geqius, I can’t be a genius
for the simple reason that I’m a woman.
Did you ever hear of a man mother? No.
It’s a contradiction in terms. So there
can’t be a woman-genius.”
“Surely there was Bosa Bonheur, and—
and in your own line, Madame Vigee Le
Brun.”
“Very pretty,” said Clementina, “but stick
them beside Paul Potter and Gainsborough,
and what do they look like? Could a woman
have painted Paul Potter’s bull?”. ...
“What is your definition of genius?”
“Genius,” said Clementina, screwing up
her face, and looking at the tip of a discol-
ored thumb, “is the quality the creative
spirit assumes as soon as it can liberate it-
self from the bonds of flesh.”
“Good!” said Tommy. “Did you make up
that all at once? It knocks Carlyle’s defini-
tion silly. But I don’t see why it doesn’t
apuH equally to men and women.”
“Woman.” said Clementina, “has always
her sex hanging round the neck of her
spirit.”
There are some dramatic scenes in the book,
and the last, in which the essential woman
in Clementina drives her to do battle with a
professional seductress for the body and soul
of Dr. Quixtus. is a ripping one. The fairy
tale comes to a fitting end in that revelation
pf the hidden glory of Clementina Wing.
The contrast with Stanley P. Hyatt’s Off
the Main Track (Werner Laurie ) is a strik-
ing' one. Ilyatt has spent some years in
the wilds of S’Africa, and this book, like
Searcy’s, is the second skimming of his im-
pressions. They are for the most part un-
pleasant. The country and the people
offended him. The only really interesting
men he met were the scallywags, and he
writes about them coldly. They were much
the same as their kind in Australia—the
broken-down swell, the man who bathed in
champagne, the picturesque ne’er-do-well, etc.
One was a magistrate who cleared a bar in
Bulawayo with a chair once, and, appearing
next day on the Bench with a black eye,
fined all his opponents ss. each. He caine
to grief when he rode into the bar of the
Grand Hotel, and insisted on being served on
horseback.
*** • *
The author of Madge's Trip to Europe
and Hack (George Robertson and Co., Is.
6d.) had no eye for character and no origin-
ality of expression which would make her
letters interesting beyond her family circle.
They are the lively remarks of a girl who
saw _what the guide-book told her, and to
her innocence it seemed funny that Berlin
should be on the Spree. The photograph of
the statuary erected at Bern in commemora-
tion of the International Postal Union is
welcome, as the group is a bold and imagin-
ative piece of sculpture.
* * * *
. The hungry book-maker who tries to polish
off Australians in an imitation of Crosland’s
manner, is bound to have a scoff at the Aus-
tralian pronunciation of English. You can
hear almost every variety of English in the
motley crowds of the cities; but the Aus-
tralian-born is credited by competent
critics with a more correct enunciation than
is to be found, proportionately, in Britain.
In a volume of Essays and’Studies edited by
A. C. Bradley, and published by the Claren-
don Press, last year, Robert Bridges lam-
ented the decay of English pronunciation as
shown by Jones’s Phonetic Transcriptions of
English Prose (1907), a book intended for
the benefit of foreigners. Jones gives the
current pronunciation in this way
erv=of.
ernd-and.
ers=as.
frerm-from.
ert-at.
ter=to.
sergest=suggest.
ideei-idea.
prerduce=produce.
Bridges points out that English spelling
will inevitably develop in the phonetic direc-
tion. and the bad pronunciation will there-
fore be passed on. The only hope of arrest-
ing the decay of English is to invent an alpha-
bet which will represent every sound ; then
the correct pronunciation will be retained in
print, whatever may happen to the living
voice. He suggests an alphabet of 58 sym-
bols, and gives specimen passages in the new
style. He might as well suggest new courses
for the stars. ■ .
A new edition of A. W. Jose’s History of
Australasia has been issued bv Angus and
Robertson, Ltd., at Bs. 6d. net. The author
has added chapters on “The Story of Land
Settlement” and “The Growth of Indus-
tries,” and the printers have used a paper
which makes the photographs appear to
better advantage. The chapter on Aus-
tralian Literature has been illustrated with
portraits of the most prominent writers.
* * * *
From a publisher’s advertisement of the
books of an Australian novelist: “Who can
forget Adam Lindsay Gordon’s The Sick
Stock Rider, John Farrell’s Sundowner,
‘Banjoe’ Patterson’s The Man from Money
River f” The writer bungled better than he
knew. “Banjo” turned the Snowy into a
money river for someone, as the book sells
steadily at 55., and nearly 50,000 copies
have been printed.
« * * * *
Angus and Robertson send a number of
attractive reprints in cloth at Is. net. A
study of Napoleon, translated from the Ger-
man of Dr. Max Lenz, is worth reading,
though it gives too much space to the early
years. More important is Napotton Intime
(in French), by Levy, a remarkable attempt
to extract the real man from the tangles of
1 ! 1 l t j °I'-v 1 '- v - ~ (!liv . e Schreiner’s Story of on
African 1-arm is still her best book', and one
&,vS e U ; ,Vels - Phili P bibbs’ The
lifl V a story of journalistic
lire in London, was praised here on its first
appearance last year. One of The Rag's re-
porters likens a newspaper office to a bee-
awi-’ 1 Whei n t i ie whole ? warm is under the
awtut spell of one mysterious purpose—the
good of the paper. If you read Ticknor
Edward es Lore of the Honey Bee (from
Oeorge Robertson and Co.) the simile may
strike you. At any rate, you will get all
that is worth knowing about bees, with some
of the mysticism that Maeterlinck extracted
from the hive. From Methuen and Co., pub-
lishers, come Mirage , by E. Temple Thurs-
ton, and Virginia Perfect , by Peggy Web-
ling, both good average yarns.
“Jean Sibi”: The value of Italian Fan-
tasies, the latest work by Israel Zangwill, is
its appeal to almost, everybody, from the
artist to the washerwoman. This clever
Jew, who sees in Italy all the wonder hf a
pawnshop, and all the curious charm of a
lady with a past, “baedekers” all sorts of
“finds,” from the size of Tintoretto’s Para-
dise to the number of chemises in the trous-
seau of Lucrezia Borgia. Here Zangwill
talks lengthily on various topics, from soups
to saints; devotes much space to Machia-
velli, the Mantuan Palace of the Gonzagas,
the Picta theme in Renaissance art ; and
spends whole chapters on such subjects as
of Garibaldi, and the comic re-
public of San Marino. Israel’s most attrac-
tive chapter, however, is on St. Francis of
Assisi, in whom he appears to recognise a
kindred spirit. And certainly it can be
said that he shows a delightful .resemblance
to the holy man, for, much in the manner of
the saint, lie lias made the Wind his brother
and betrays the most conspicuous character-
istic of liis relation.
Still, apart from his volubility, he can
utter a few neat things:—
Not even Lot’s wife supplies sufficient
salt to swallow Genesis with.
Russia was naptised a thousand vears
ago, but she seems to have a duck’s back for
holy water. , *
What Nietzsche’s Superman was to be
Nietzsche did not precisely know, though we
may well suspect that the direction in which
he strained his vision was not the horizon,
but the looking-glass.
Those, however, are only rare flashes in
a prose that bores the- lover of clarified
writing. Israel’s system—if he has a sys-
tem —is to think in the grandiose, and write
in fanfares. Frequently he gives one
phrases like “gargantuan grotesquerie!” and
“megaphonious magnificence !”—which is
merely using language to make loud sounds.
“Hurtle” : In The Claw, Cynthia Stockley
allows (p. 254) her South African prejudice
to make her describe quite needlessly the
only Australian character in the book tliusly:
“Mr. Courtfield was an Australian, born and
bred. Judy told me this —perhaps to ac-
count for the extraordinary accent and bac
manners of the man—so obviously not a
gentleman. Cynthia does not, evidently,
know much about Australia, when she makes
Maurice Stair ask (p. 346) : “Would I
leave Africa with him for Australia, where
an old friend of his father’s had a large ranch
near Melbourne.”
* * * *
“B.J.TTiO.”: In “Fanny’s First Play,”
the anonymous” effort by G. B. Pshaw', the
name of the author of the plav about which
the play is written, is given forth as “Ber-
nadine O’Dowda.” What- says our cosmic
janitor, to this?
* * * *
by Louis Stone, is mentioned in
Jhc Athenaeum as “a story of larrikin life in
Sidney, the central figure being a young
Australian.”
“J.F.” : A few Bulletins back Dyson un-
burthened himself (as a fellow craftsman)
on the art of the dead O. Henry. The analy-
sis was_ excellently critical. The summing
up was impartial, and yet, after reading “An
Ornament of the Bar,” I fanev tbe gentle
Edward is drifting Henry-ward. “The
young lady succumbed to repeated attacks
on a m * n , er a ~<>z. quartz lode and a
-0-quarts’ load,” and “Somewhere between
Ipswich, Queensland, and the Eight Hours’
Monument” have a familiar ring. The “Cas-
tertniv “Chudleigh” “Chalmers” business
is, if memory serves, very like an over-
worked character of Rex Beach’s—“ Finge-
rless Fraser,” I think.
* * * *
Some Thoughts on Hamlet, the lecture
delivered at Sydney University by H. B. Irv-
ing, M.A. (Oxon.), has been published in
pamphlet form by Angus and Robertson. The
chief point he makes is that the “business”
added by actors, probably from the time of
Burbage, is essential to an understanding
ot the play.
* * * *
Louis Esson’s slandhr volume of verse,
‘Bells and Bees.” is favorably reviewed by
London Times. The writer observes:—
Mr. Esson bites in strongly and sharply
lus little etchings of Australian life, being a
rhymer who sees pictures rather than
visions, and he does so with a spirited lilt.
But as in a delightful “Cradle Song,” he has
a tender note.
Amongst the cheap reprints are IT. G.
M ells’ The Time Machine and Oscar Wilde's
Be Profundis (Is. net).
Alfred Stearcy’s adventurous career in
North Australia gave him plenty of material
for a second book. By Ftoo<l and Field (Geo
Robertson and Co.; 3s. 6d.), which is in
some respects a better book than the first.
In Australian Tropics was a collection of
episodes, set down as' remembered; but thjs
is a continuous narrative of his experiences
from the time when, as a lad. he was blown
ashore in a fishing boat, and had to live for
months with the blacks. The story of
his adventures with them, and of incidents
in his life as customs' officer and policeman
is one with plenty of excitement and no
little humor. He covered an extensive tract
of country from the Roper River, l-ouud the
North Coast to the Daly River, near which
is Alt. Searcy, to keep him in remembrance
if his book’s miss-fire. He became closely
acquainted with alligators, buitaloes, white
ants, Alalays, Chinkies and disreputable
Europeans, and talks about them brightly
and graphically.
In spite of the hardships and perils of his
life there, Searcy has an abounding enthusi-
asm for the Northern Territory. He urges
the , young man of courage and industry to
go *nd get busy with its undeveloped wealth.
There is not a note of regret or complaint
in his story.


w acre
Anthony Horderns* for
Agricultural Implements
We can supply everything wanted by the Man on the Land, and our illustrated
Departmental Price Lists place the vast resources of the New Palace Emporium
at the command of everyone in Australia.
Wiard
Patent
Steel-beam
Swivel Ploughs.
With Straight Coulter. . ' h OTOT . nroduced. The
These are the first practical Steel-beam Side-Hi other beam made.
beams are of highesl -grade forged Steel, and are stroi » reversed either way, and
They are so adjusted that the plough works perfectly anner The Coulter is the
all the parts are attached in the simplest but stronges
ordinary Colonial pattern, not as shown . f 1„ weivlit with clevis, 1181 b. 78/6.
N 6. 120-Steel beam, Sin. to Sin. deep, Sin. to 12in. wide, . t Tin .
No. 21— Wiard One-horse Hillside Plough, with wood beam, ploughs 4in.
deep, 6in. to lOin. wide; weight 781 b., 42/6.
ghf
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED
PRICE LISTS OF ANY-
THING YOU WANT, POST
FREE ON APPLICATION.
ĝf gh
hg gfh
The Matthews
New Universal
Excel
Harrow
Cultivator.
Weight 631 b.
For fine work among small plants where It is desired simply to loosen and pul-
verise the soil, this style of cultivator is unsurpassed. Adjustable and reversible steel
teeth diamond shaped may be used either end up, and may be set either straight or
slanting, backward P or forward. One end of each tooth is cut plain, while the other end is
curved and forged as illustrated. We recommend this implement as the strongest
and best harrow Cultivator made. Price, 31/6.
Anthony Horderns
for Cutlery.
ta
Ceo. Wostcnliol m s
I.X.X. Sport gma 11's
Kniie (us illustrated).
Designed for Bush Use
and made of the finest
Steel, that has< earned
for the i.X.L. Brand u
reputation for excel-
lence. The Sportsman
consists of two blades,
saw. picker and twee-
zers. gimlet, hole-
punch, corkscrew and
fleam. 6|in. long, flirt,
blades. Good staghorn
bandl«. P’-ice. fi «:
by post. 6/9
’’r/etr/WQ
ISJ
TfllL'NC 0/)
>Vx
Ka i. e i [i > s sheath Knife designed for the man on the land. The blade is
First Quality Steel, the’ shape gives the user a more powerful stroke than
can be obtained with other sheath knives. 1/6; by post. 1 a.
■»PLYING KNirt
Price Lists Posted
Free on Request.
Geo. Wostenholm’s I. XX. Bushman’s
Knife. Four Steel Blades, including
one blade for Speying. Best Staghorn
Handle. Price. 4/-: by post, 4/2.
S/< CJT//YO
euOD/ffc
ml
TA'Lly
tfiV
"'fi'/V/V
/>vG
Kaleski’s Patent Knife Is an ideal pocket knife for station, faim or orchard
work The blade is practically unbreakable, as the strength is in the light
place. Length of knife open, 81m. 2/3; by post, ■?/<>.
Anthony Horderns* for Satisfaction in Saddlery.
ft'V'
The Dreadnought
Saddle, Steel-plated
Tree, Hogskin Seat,
Knee and Thigh
pads, complete with
Girths, Leathers and
Irons, £5/5/-.
iVrX-Vy.y/.i-'-C
• •:
t• • % ;- ; •
r- ::
N <|>£: V
.v,*.
Side-Saddles,
Bag Leather Seat,
solid, safe, 82/6.
Hogskin Seat, solid,
safe, 87/6.
•’v--
m
The Wasrga Saddle,
Plated Tree, Hog-
skin Seat, Knee and
Thigh Pads, com-
plete with Girths.
Stirrup Leathers
and Iro'hs, 70/-
With Strapped
Kneepad, 77/6.
Many other designs are illustrated in our Price List of Saddlery and Harness. Write for a copy, posted free
on request, and reap the full benefit of our unique system of Spot Cash trading.
-
imm
w®
m
E&XjTV;
ss
m
Rr-
ms
Y-?j;
CK
9&St
m
Park or Exercise
Saddle, Plated
Tree. Bag Seat,
Knee and Thigh
Pads, 50/-.
With Hogskin Seat,
Bag, Knee and
Thigh Pads, 55/-,
60/-.
fhg fgh
The Stock Saddle,.
Hogskin Seat, Knee
and Thigh Pads,
Galvanised Steel,
plated Tree, com-
plete with Girths,
Leathers and Irons,.
70/-, 72/6.
MSI
I
Hogskln Seat. Bag
Leather Knee,
Thigh Pads, 55/-,
60/-.
Hogskin Seat. Knee
and Thigh Pads,
70/-, 72/6.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS
Only Universal
Providers)
New Palace Emporhim,
BricKfield Mill*
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


Amott’s MilK Arrowroot Biscuits
“THE: CHILDRJLN’vS FOOD.”
TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
STEVENS
f ghf
New Visible Loading
Repeating Rifle No. 70.
The Most Accurate .22 Calibre Repeating Rifle Made.
Barrel rifled with slow twist, one turn in twenty-five inches. Weight 4£ pounds. Handles fifteen .22
short cartridges, which are always in sight while being fed into chamber. Extra double extractors.
The No. 70 Rifle is also manufactured for .22 long Rifle Cartridges.
The Stevens No 70 Repeater is absolutely guaranteed, and bound to give universal satisfaction.
No. 70. Pitted with 'bead front and sporting rear sights.
Write for Catalogue to
Ask your Dealer.
Insist on
STEVENS.
ARTHUR H. HILL, Australian Represent-
ative for Stevens Arms and Tool Co.,
Box 86, G.P.0., Adelaide, S. Australia.
Send for latest Fire-
arm, Telescope and
Stevens-Pope Cata-
logues. [S
THE AGCORDEON for Country Residents.
1
We don’t believe any Accordeon comes
«o near perfection as the Celebrated
STAR Trombone Accordeon.
It has a powerful tone, handsome ebonised case, extra
larfre bellows protected by steel corners ; 2 sets of extra
broad steel bronze reeds/ Patent Rotary Celeste Stop.
Price £1
Postage to any Address
in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Extra quality, with 3 sets of Reeds, Celeste and Organ Stop,
15-fold Bellows with steel corners. Price £1 7s. 6d.;
postage to any address in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Other Accordeons from 7/6 to 100/-
HEINDORFF BROS.,
Importers of Pianos and all kinds of Musical
Instruments, Watches, Jewellery, etc.,
210 QUEEN STREET BRISBANE
V
Royal
Mothers
use
Ashton & Parsons*
Infants’ Powders
lor the
Little Princes and
Princesses
during the time of
teething and for fretfulness
and the many ailments common to infancy
Recommended by H.R.H. The Crown Princess of Ronmanla.
MISS FRANKLIN, c/o Capt. Embury, R.E., BLackdown Corner, near Leamington, writes:
“ I have been asked to write to you by an Austrian Lady, to know if you will send her two boxes,
each containing ioo of your Teething Powders. She says they are the same you have supplied
to the Crown Princess of Roumania, from whom sb.e first heard of them.”
ASHTON & PARSONS'
INFANTS’ POWDERS
are guaranteed to be perfectly harmless they caol the gums-
a natural, calm, refreshing sleep render teething quite easy
are pleasant to the taste are mild and gentle in action may
most delicate babe —and there is no possible objection to their
• comfort the child produce
prevent pain and disorder
je given to the youngest and
frequent and continued use.
ghgh
Supplied by Royal Command to—
H.I.M. THE DOWAGER EMPRESS OF RUSSIA
H.R.H. THE DUCHESS OF FIFE
H.R.H. THE CROWN PRINCESS OF ROUMANIA
H. I. H. THE GRAND DUCHjESS OLGA OF RUSSIA
H.R H. PRINCE CAROL OF ROUMANIA
H.R.H. PRINCESS ALEXANDER HOHENLOHE
fhg
Ashton C? Parsons’ Infants’ Powdens are guaranteed to be harmless ••fl
Price in Great Britain, Boxes, containing 20 Powders, 1/1%; 60 Powders, 2/9; too Powders, 4/6.
To be obtained at Chemists and 1 Stores throughout the World.
PROPRIETORS ASHTON & PARSONS, LIMITED, LONDON, E.C , ENGLAND
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
With her limitless potentialities, still in the process of initial development, Queensland
otters a field of unbounded scope to the investor, the scientist, the tourist, the prospective
settler and to the honest worker.
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
T. C. TROEDSON, Director.
Branch Office: 116 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W. A. MESTON, Local Director.
■/
iLlMCfl]
' . : RO OFING
Congo 2-ply or 3-ply Roofing will last Ten Years
THE io years of life is guaranteed by a genuine enforceable Surety Bond issued by
the Royal Exchange Assurance of London.
The guarantee is such that you get new roofing free of charge if Congo does not give
satisfaction.
You needn’t be an expert in roofing. You may not know good material when you see
it, but you do know what “ten years’’ means. Sample and further information free
on request.
Congo Damp Course for making foundations damp-proof.
Am.’NTS •—Noves Bros (Sydney), Ltd., Sydney; Noyes Bros. (Prop.), Ltd.,
° Rrahant & Co Brisbane; Walter Reid & Co., Rockhampton;
Harrow Colton &00.,Ltd., Adelaide ; Millar’s Karri & Jarrah Co., Ltd., Perth ;
William Hart & Sons, Launceston ; T. A. Tabart, Jr., Hobart, Tasmama.
Will Andrade ™ BOOKS.
Any of these Catalogues
Free for the asking-:
t.l) Plays, Recitations
and Make-Ups.
(2) Conjuring Appar-
atus.
(3) French Novels.
(4) Gift Books.
(5) Useful & Mechani-
cal Books.
(6) Medical Books.
(7) Socialistic Books.
(8) Sixpenny Novels.
(9) Australian Books.
(10) Cheap Music.
(11) Musical Instru-
ments.
Art of Boxing’ and Self-Defence, 1/2 ; Gold Hunter’s Adventures in Aus-
tralia, 1/9 ; Complete Book of Love Letters, 1/; How to Woo and Win, 1/1,
Astrology Made Easy, 1/1; Money-Making Secrets, 1/1; Minstrel
Eight Popular Farces, 1/1; Sixteen Amusing I‘arces, 1/1; Thirteen One-Act
Farces, 1/1; Twenty Humorous Dialogues, 1/1; Home Amusements, 1/1 ,
“ How Old Mose Counted the Eggs ” and 116 Other Humorous Recitations,
1/1 ; Famous Dramatic Recitations, 1/1 ; “ How Sockery Set a Hen ana
other Comic Recitations, 1/1; Famous Dialect Recitations, 1/1; 1401 Conun-
drums and Riddles, 1/1; Art of Ventriloquism, 1/1 ; Hypnotism Mesmerism
and Clairvoyance, 1/1 ; Popular Horse and Cattle Doctor, 1/1 , How to Teach
Animal Tricks, 1/1; What Young People Should Know, Confidential Talks,
1/1 • Dr. Faulkner’s Original Book of Nature, the only genuine and complete
edition, 3/6, posted 3/9 ; New Tricks with Cards, 1/; House Painting, Paper-
hanging, Whitewashing, etc., 1/2; 3000 Priceless Secrets, 1/8 ; Irish Jokes
and Witty Sayings, 9d. ; Complete Letter Writer for Ladies and Gentlemen,
V; Dancing Without an Instructor, 1/; Lover’s Guide to Courtship ana
Marriage, 1/; Bernard Macfadden’s Physical Training, 2/9 ; ■ Macfadden s
Building of Vital Power, 5/4 ; Macfadden’s Superb Virility’ of Manhood, , 6/4,
Macfadden’s Sweethearts for Lives, 5/4 ; Australian Billiard Champion Gray s
Book on Billiards, 1/5; Wrestling Instructor,
with 60 Photographic Illustrations, 1/9; Bag
Punching, lOd. ; All Steele Rudd’s Aus-
tralian Books, 1/1; Road Map of Victoria,
1/1.
STAND ANY BOOK
YOU WANT.
Mention This Bulletin.
Above prices include postage to any address. Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne
I
’%>
CLEMENTS
TONIC
GIVES HEALTH.
M
ANY members of the theatrical profession
have testified to the health-creating
_ powers of Clements Tonic. Scarcely
any profession so exactingly demands from its
members so much of brain-strength and mental
concentration in the studies of important and
nerve-trying rbles. This extends to members
of Comedy or Drama, also to those of Operatic
Choruses where singing r&les must be perfectly rendered. The letter h a
form of a Clements Tonic testimony was received from MISS ALICE MIIC >
member of the J. C. Williamson New Comic Opera Company, who lately appeared at tne
Theatre Royal, Sydney. Miss Mitchell, who keeps in the best of health by using Cem
Tonic, speaks of it as follows
" CLEMENTS TONIC LTD .
“After taking your valuable tonic for some
considerable time during an extended tour of the
Commonwealth and New Zealand, I find fljyse/
in perfect health, and strongly recommend this
medicine to anyone run down or suffering from
over-taxation of the nerves . / also find it keeps
the singing voice clear and strong -
“ ( Signed) ALICE MITCHELL•
Throughout Australia Clements Tonic is used in every profession, and its value as a health
restorer appreciated. The merits of this medicine are voiced by those who speak rip


That
Little
Hacking
Cough
ĝh
Hard coughs are bad enough, to
be sure. But it’s often the lit-
tle, hacking, tickling, persistent
cough that means the most,
especially when there is a his-
tory of weak lungs in the family.
What should be done? Ask your
doctor. He knows. Ask him
about the formula on the label
of every bottle of Ayer’s Cherry
Pectoral. Ask him if this med-
icine has his full approval for
throat and lung troubles. Then
do as he says.
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer &. Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
For RHEUMATISM
ghf
and all BLOOD DISORDERS.
Packets, 3d., 6d. and Is.
[i
PREPAID TO YOUR PORT.
Ten Days’ Trial allowed. Direct from
Factory. Highest-grade British MEAD
Coventry Flyers
WARRANTED FIFTEEN YEARS.
Defiance Puncture-Resisting or Dunlap
Tyres, Coasters, Variable-Speed Gears, Flyer
or Brook’s Saddles, etc.
ƒghg
MODELS
£3.10 to £9
Tyres and accessories at half usual prices.
Write at once, using sufficient postage*
for Free Art Catalogue and spccirt
Offer on sample machine. Agents wanted*
MEAD
CYCLE COMPANY,
Dent. LIVERPOOL.
'■-m
•. ;• ' > ;
L . ■
". na
I ILssar'- „,.....
I,' "M ’ H
' ' ,B
HHBrot
r *
r !*3
fc ' :
I . WS- )
I'. I •
: ' J
j.■ j v
f
-■ it 1
Always 1
r Reliable i
Eley Cartridges
offer a degree of
accuracy and relia-
bility which the lead-
ing sportsmen of the
world have not been
slow to appreciate.
To Specify *ELEY* when buying
cartridges is the easiest and quickest
way of ensuring complete satisfaction
ELEY
CARTRIDGES
Above is shown the
Eley‘44 Winches-
ter Central l ire Rifle
t artridge.
'I he Eley Univer-
sal.’ for Shot Guns, is
known throughout the
world as a reliable
black - powdei car-
tridge.
*Eley Smokeless’is
the popular low*
priced cartridge.
Eley '22 Rim Fire
Cartridge, blaclt &
smokeless powder
0/ Gunmakers
and Duilen
Eley Bros.
Lid.
London.
s*
£
For Children’s Coughs and Colds
There is no better remedy for Children’s
Coughs and Colds than
BONNINCTON’S
IRISH MOSS.
It does them as much good
as it does the older folk.
REFUSE SUBSTITUTES.
Ask for Bonningtons’s, and insist on getting it. It is dangerous to experiment
when you can get a remedy that has stood the test for over 45 years.
Sold Everywhere. Price, Is. 6d. and 2s. Gd
[2
Richardson Cushion Frame, Anti-Jar Ball
Bearing Roller Skates.
Used exclusively in all of the largest and most successful rinks in America^
nnd hv all the Champions of the World, fast and fanc\ . EIOHAKUoUJN
SKATES have held all World’s Records for ‘ii years. Write for Catalogue.
Tells how to open and operate Roller Rinks
i Doll Dan
vine suatfi no.. 311 Michigan Street, Chicago, U.S.A.
RICHARDSON
hgh
CHICAGO
(1403.)
r
&
to
-«r
FLAT-CHESTED WOMEN!
Sr a“xa.“ JS
S s «r»n'riT sg«s r e
the refreshing firmness and delightful fulness of the
feminine form that captivates, and the woman who is most
perfectly developed is the one who monopolises the endear-
T’&SS and ondeveloped Dr
SfS« SuflSpwVS’tE' cases re-
FALLIERE FLESH-FOOD CO., 1108 A.h Street, Sydney (rear HqulaMe LlfeJlmldingL
£2O FREE
EVERY WEEK
Try to Solve
this Puzzle.
EVERY WEEK we give away Cash °, r d® r . p^ z ®k-chiss
average over £lOOO a year—or brains
■jewellery—to persons who are e J»» tnia oicture,
3 anTtalents ft you can find tbe^bos^
mm. sSfss
No successful contestant ever received less thian a Fou
Shilling Order. This offer open foi limited time o y STI)VFY
ELECTINE MEDICINE CO., 203 EEECTINE BUILDING, SYDNEY.
This farm hand is diligently work-
ing because his Employer is near,
though hidden. Find the Employer.
h*2Si®i
- li. •'»»• —N 4K ”
nuCQ
perfect
FOOD
IN
TYPHOID & DYSENTERY
HORLICK’S MALTED MILK
is especially valuable as a diet in
Fever cases. Easily assimilated in
the weakest conditions. Whole-
some, nourishing and sustaining.
Recommended by the Medical Profession.
Of all Chemists and Stores.
,82, Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
' Horlick’s Malted Milk Co.,
Slough, Bucks.
England.
gh
SMOKERS
CAN BE CURED !
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a harmless veg-
etable remedy that will make the user
of tobacco in any form abandon the
habit for good. It not only destroys the crav-
ing, the desire, the appetite for tobacco, but
restores to health the entire nervous system, and
aids Nature in entirely eliminating the Nicotine
Poison from the system.
FREE TRIAL.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you a trial
package of this grand remedy, and also our free
booklet. Trial package often effects a cure.
Mr H Smith, Park Farm, Jericho, Tas., says: "I
was a hard smoker for 30 years, but since taking your
sample of 1 obacco Specific 1 have never had asmoke.
H. SINCLAIR & CO., Dept. G,
Victoria Arcade, SYDNEY.
Drunkards
Cured. “ Golden Specific ”is perfectly harmless
and can be given secretly. It has often cured a most
violent drunkard in a few days. Send 2d.
free Sample and Free Descriptive Booklet.
golden specific CO.,
Dept. 4, 100* MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
56 tons 7cwt.
The weight of the quarter-
million Wayb@ck Ppoks
sold to date.
gh
Waterman's
FouritmiiPen
The Pen that
works at its best
-ALWAYS.
The secret of the great success of
Waterman’s Ideal Fountain Pen
is—its reliability. One can always
depend on it. And what is the
good of a pen which cannot be
relied on—which is all right one
day, all wrong the next ? Water-
man’s Ideal never varies. It gives
perfect pen service the day bought,
and it will give perfect pen service
ten years hence. Buy one. _ You
will quickly learn to regard it as a
faithful friend.
12/6 and upwards. From Stationers,
Jewellers, &c, throughout the World.
L. & C. HARDTMUTH, Ltd.,
Koh-i-noor House,
London, England.
T ETTERS COPIED
WHILE WRITING
By Using Your Own Letter
Paper, Invoices,
etc., WITH THE
NSC/ 200
ATtN-r ZanETiC
BOO*'.
You simply insert
Your writing paper ,
in the holder and write. Whereupon you secure by
the act of writing a perfect letter and a perfect copy
(which remains in the hook). There is no sign o
copying or perforated edge.
Sample of the Celebrated Zanetic Paper which
produces this result free from
S.B. ZANETIC WORKS,
Welford Road, Leicester, England.
If stamped addressed envelope enclosed, one com-
plete NSC/100, Copying 200 full size lOtn. x Bin.
letters, for 3/6 post free ; or Copying 400, 5/-.
Please send Money Orders only, not P.O.’s.
WHOLESALE AGENTS WANTED.
THE LONE HAND offers you the Glad
Hand. It’s the Right Hand, and a week
after publication there are none left*
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Home-sickness.
Late along the mountain slopes the warm sun lingers,
Counting ev’ry pine and gum on loving golden
fingers;
But I know a yellow bay and a stretch of brown
lagoon
Where all the day amongst the reeds the salt winds
croon.
O blue waves, and gold sand, and brown reeds
a-sway,
My soul is sick with hunger for the sea to-day!
O’er the muddy meadow streams the willow arches;
Stiffly up the mountain roads the swarthy pine-tree
But 1 miss the twisted trees that, all silent, wait the
tide
And the peaceful guarded reaches where whip-birds
hide.
O brown trees so silent and still waters grey,
My soul is full of longing for your peace to-day!
Far above the gully’s slopes I hear winds calling,
And, far down, the music of the little waters falling.
But 'I have seen a hundred times the white sails dip
and sway,
And watched the white foam follow to the sea mists
grey.
White foam, and white sails, and. grey mist on the
blue,
With my whole heart I’m longing for a sight of you!
N.S.W.
R. B. WALLENDBEEN.
Winter.
Antarctic cyclones, on the wing,
Burst, howling o’er the Tasman Sea;
While Yarra’s floods, with swirl and swing,
Their “flotsam” o’er my garden fling,
With wrecks of cot and tree.
*Tis now I bless the cheery brand
That blazes, glorious, on my hearth;
I’d sooner far, than Sousa’s band,
Or any other in the land,
Fire-songs of warmth and worth.
No martial strains of tube or string,
Nor crash of drums, nor sigh of flute,
Could drag me forth, or comfort bring,
With southern cyclones on the wing.
Rude rain and sleet, to boot!
I’d rather, yes! before the Spring,
With Yarra whirling past at flood,
Than Melba, hear the kettle sing,
While Polar winds upon the wing
First still, then freeze, the blood.
For warmth is Life, and Love and more,
Our hearts’ desire, our nostrils’ breath;
While all our mountains, bare beneath
Are hearsed in snow; and every shore
The Sun smiled on in days before
Lies c01d... and cold is Death !
VICTORIA.
G. G. McG.
At the Judgment Seat.
“And so, Lord, it was all true, after all!”
Tints the astounded soul of Brown made moan,
Standing responsive to its Maker’s call,
Full in the glory of the Great White Throne.
Vast herald angels floated on the wing;
Well-fed they looked, and very clean and mild ;
Each wore a quoit-like halo ; ev’rything
Was as Brown’s Church had taught him as a child.
The soul of Brown peered round in frank amaze ;
It scanned the porphyry streets, and stairs of gold,
And all the rest, whereof, in youthful days,
Its owner had repeatedly been told.
And then the startled spook or wraith looked down.
It saw the fire that dieth not: a waste
Of white-hot flame where damned souls strove to
drown —-
A mercy they might never, never taste.
Stark terror made Brown’s ghost articulate,
And, turning from that marrow-freezing glow,
It prayed to be delivered from the fate
Of them that howled and gnashed their teeth
below.
“I never knew, dear Lord!” it wailed. “In life
My lot was cast among a Righteous horde
Whose days and nights were filled with hate and
strife,
People who grace and charity abhorred.
“ ’Tis true they snuffled of a Better Land,
And bellowed warnings of Hell’s agonies,
Yet bitter venom raged on ev’ry hand ;
They cursed their neighbors on their very knees.
“Their faith was hot abuse of other creeds ,
Wild Slander stood for Virtue in their eyes;
Their sermons dealt with other folks’ misdeeds ,
And all, or nearly all, their tales were lies.
“Am I to blame —who rarely heard the truth,
And saw but weird distortions of Thy Light •
In that I sinned, with little shame or ruth,
Convinced that nothing I was taught was right (
Brown’s spirit’s strange apology died dovvn,
It stood there speechless, limp and panic-grey.
And lo! all suddenly, Jehovah’s frown
Passed like a sudden, summer cloud away.
As in a gracious dream the ghost of Brown
Glimpsed near its ear the feathers of a wing ,
Upon its head there came a golden crown ;
It suddenly conceived a wish to sing.
No soul is more revered than Brown's to-day
Throughout the endless realms of time and space.
“He sinned and scoffed, no doubt,” the angels say,
“But who would have been different in his place.
K.S.W.
J. B. D.
Somebody’s.
There’s nothing to hope for and little to get
For a fellow of fifty in days like these;
But I somehow delight, as my last suns set.
In a bundle of letters of Somebody s.
They are not very brilliant or subtle or smart,
They do not amuse or especially tease,
And yet.. .how they tug at the roots of my heart,
These crumpled old letters of Somebody s!
And when at the end I lie still and behave-
Better far than I ever did yet, I wis
If you’d keep my old dust very warm in the grave
On my heart put those letters of.. .Somebody s.
MAORILAND.
FRANK MORTON.


Combination Couch and Bed.
CHANGED INSTANTLY.
Size when open, 4ft. x 6ft. 7in.
* Hi i * ». * . if'
V- * V- \ ■*- t.‘V )) »]
>■ ■». y. .*• a v ■>
yStfii 88 pB
N3B
CLOSED AS COUCH,
gh
fgh
fg
fhĝ
fg
fg
fgh
Commonwealth
Patent 12274.
OPEN AS DOUBLE BED.
Cannot get out of order; is
exceptionally strong and durable.
Just the thing for offices,
small rooms, or where an extra
bed is required.
Invaluable for hotels, boarding-
houses, coffee palaces, and similar
establishments.
Can be had fitted with box, to
act as linen press. Three pieces
of furniture in one.
Elegantly upholstered.
CASH PRICES:
In Cretonne, £4 10s.; in
Tapestry or American Leather,
£5 55.; in Rexine, £6 6s. With
Box, 20s. extra.
Patent Rights held by
MARCUS CLARK & Co. Ltd.
SYDNEY.
Rheumatism, Indigestion,
— Kidney Trouble.
PAGE’S INDIAN COMPOUND
is the One Rapid Reliable Rheumatic Remedy.
SOLD BY ALL STORES and CHEMISTS, PRICE
Wholesale Agents: ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney.
If not obtainable locally, Post Free from the Manufacturers,
PAGE 8 COMPANY LIMITED, 117 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
216
per
Bottle.
SB
HOTEL
METROPQLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF, from 11s. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 3s. 6d. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to The Manager.
Great Musical Innovation.
Two More (New) “BOOMERANG” Mouth
Orsran Types in the shape of the
“BOOMERANG GRAND” (48 Reeds),
Price 6/6 (New) ; the “ MINIATURE
GRAND” (24 Reeds), Price 3/6 (New),
Post Free to any Address.
ggojvy^3i§
a
KTERCHAWEABIf (rand
parts V ALBERT’S SYSTEM
HA "» F "-E0
Reeds f;®
These two new types possess already the great superiority of the “Boomerang” Mouth Organ
tonalitv, but being tuned to the grand concert pitch, and provided with extra reeds, they at once
raise their bewitching harmony above the best reed-combination. The sweetness and body of re-
sonance emanating from the “BOOMERANG GRAND” can only be equalled by the tuneful combi-
natLn of The Harp and Flute. Try one, and the “BOOMERANG GRAND” will become your
inseparable companion. Try the 6s. 6d. one for preference.
The other five types of the “Boomerang,” Mouth Organs are still sold at the same old prices.
The Professional, 4s.; the large “Boomerang,” 2s. 6d. ; the Miniature Professional, 2s; the Minia-
ture “Boomerang,” Is. 6d.; and the Pocket “Boomerang,” Is. But, as said, the apex of musical
joy can only be attained with the “Boomerang GRAND,” the Mouth Organ of the future.
Wholesale 8 Retail from J. ALBERT 8 SON, 137 Ring St., Sydney.
(Remit by Australian or
N.Z. Postage Stamps).
ĥg
WE HAVE A REPUTATION
FOR FIELD CAMERAS.
They are fitted with Lenses by Makers Whose Names are
a Guarantee of Quality.
Before deciding on a Stand Camera Purchase see the following :
The “ EMPRESS ” Outfit. Always popular.
Price complete, £3/15/-
The “ FAVORITE ” Outfit. Triple Extension.
Price complete, £4/10/-
The “SANDERSON ” Outfit. "One of the Best.” Price complete, £6/17/6.
All the above outfits include Lens, Tripod and one D.D. Slide. They a,re
illustrated in our Big 400-page Catalogue. Send for it. Posted gratis.
OUR STOCK OF HAND CAMERAS, FOR FILMS OR PLATES, IS ALSO RIGHT UP-TO-DATE.
The Leading Photographic Merchants,
HARRINGTONS L TD
386 George Street, SYDNEY.
And at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Auckland and Wellington, N.Z.
PERDRIAU
‘Watershed
Hose for
Good Service
£r//i
w
IF you are a prospective purchaser of Hose, a few facts con-
cerning “ Watershed ” Red Rubber Hose will surely interest
you. It is, first of all, the best Hose for gardening pur-
poses that can be made. That means it is the best that you can
buy. Permanent resiliency and long life are given it by the fine
quality of rubber from which it is made. Quality is evident in
every length ; and it is always fresh, and sure to give satisfactory
service. Considering its exceptional quality, it is really the cheapest
hose obtainable.
The prices, in any length a multiple of ioft., are as follow :
x 2 ply, 7j4d. per ft.
x /i in. x 3 ply, per ft.
x 3 ply, nd. per ft.
Perdriau Hose for
ioft. 2 oft.
6/3 12/6
7/1 14/2
9/2 18/4
Mechanical
30ft. 40ft.
18/9 25/-
21/3 28/4
27/6 36/8
Purposes.
We make a speciality of the manufacture of all kinds of Rubber
Hose. Our Rock Drill Hose is guaranteed to withstand extremely
rough wear. Bound with hand-served, knotted, tarred Marline to
stand highest air pressures.
We can also supply Rubber Hose for Delivery, Steam, Suction,
Wine and all general requirements.
Call or write for Price List and Free Samples.
Perdriau Rubber Go., Ltd.,
“The Best House for all Rubber Goods,”
270 George Street, Sydney,
And 105 Elizabeth Street, between Collins and BourKe
Streets, Melbourne.
ĝ
COLUMBIA
j*
T
BronsK^TcL
FREEMAN
MARDONES
BLANCHART
CAMPANARI
CAVALIERI
BRONSKAJA
BONINSEGNA
CONSTANTINO
ğfgh
Sing EXCLUSIVELY for
COLUMBIA.
Their RECORDS are INCOMPARABLY
A
SUPERB, and can be played on
ANY DISC MACHINE.
WHERE, you can
Hear them FREE s
CAMERON’S, 487 George St.
MARCUS CLARK’S, George St.
DEANE & SONS, 224 Pitt St.
SYDNEY GRAMO.325 George St
ART CATALOGUES may
be obtained from them, or
from —
T
A,
a;
oomuseQndL
f
CRAVEN TAYLOR & CO., LTD.
220 Clarence Street, Sydney.
54 BourKe Street, Melbourne. '
&


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 32. —N0. n;4S.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 1911.
Prick fin.
EVICTED,
The attempt to crowd all the N.S.W. population Into Sydney is producing curious results. The municipality wants to pull down
sundry ancient slums, but the tenants decline to leave on the ground that it is impossible to get accommodation elsewhere. However,
the summer is coming in, and the open air life is pleasant.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“ Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod,
of Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mos-
raan, for The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
Ltd., at the Office of the Co., 214 George-
street North. Sydney, N. S. Wales, Aus-
tralia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES: Business, 1384 Central.
Editorial, 257 City.
TERMR TO KUItSCRTBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Per Annum .. .. ..£l6O
Half-yearly . . .. . . 0 13 6
Quarterly .. .. . . 0 7 0
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office, Twenty-
Six Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin
posted regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques. Drafts, etc., and all Business Communica-
tions to he addressed to William Macleod, Manag-
ing Director.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the
paper {and, to an extent, themselves ) by taking
some care as to methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, ad-
vertisements, etc.) should in no case be addressed to
the editor. but to the Manager. To send them to
the Editor is to invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters
to anyone by name. “The Editor, The Bulletin,” is
the proper superscription for “copy.” Delay, and
even loss, is sometimes caused by addressing to per-
sons instead of officials. The person may not be
there; the official always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” col-
umn all contributions submitted, whether in the
form of Political. Social or other Articles, Verse,
Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially accept-
able), Paragraphs, Letters or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS.
when the address is specified and stamps are en-
closed. But no MS. will be returned, or preserved,
unless these conditions are observed. When MS. is
forwarded without stamps for return it will be un-
derstood that the copy is to be destroyed if not ac-
ceptable. Personal applications for return of MS.
cannot receive attention. The Bulletin desires,
further, those sending MS. to distinctly understand
that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or_ other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea,
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any pic-
ture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
The Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on
account of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale
agents) to Victoria, West Australia, Queensland,
Tasmania and New Zealand; and on account of
Messrs. Atkinson and Co. and Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide
■ —at li/(> per doz. nett.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotch, ljudgate Circus, and at British
Australasian Office. 115 High ilolborn, London,
W.C.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town; Dawson and Son. Capetown; The Central
News Agency, Durban, Natal; and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver
8.C.; Irvine and Forsyth, Til Hastings Street;
Norman, Caple and Co.. Stationers.
U.B.A.—lsserlis A., Seattle. Washington; Inter-
national News Agency, Los Angeles; Chicago News-
paper Agency, 110 Madison Street, Chicago.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port
Said.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Singapore. — Messrs. John Little and Co.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size
6%in. x lljin ., will be forwarded on application.
Larger sizes can be supplied if desired.
Postage Rates.
Single Copies, The Bulletin (Registered as a
Newspaper);—Throughout the Commonwealth, New
Zealand, Fiji, British New Guinea, Norfolk and Lord
Howe Islands, 10oz. Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea
Route, 16oz. Id. — otherwise, Boz. Id., and Bh>z. to
lOoz., 2(d; lOoz. to 120 z., 3d; elsewhere, joz., Id.,
a,id id. each additional 20~.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 14,1911.
“THE BULLETIN’S” SPRING POEM.
These are the gladsome days of spring,
when the earth rejuvenates itself like a
girl with a new garment; and the surfing
person, whose ambition it is to be the very
brownest bather on the beach, hunts up the
envelope in which he hid away his costume
last drear autumn time ; and the jackass is
joyful in the tree, where he disturbs the
slumbers of the furry ’possum; and the
spring poet sometimes drinks too much
spring beer, and sometimes finds his credit
stopped at the spring pub around the cor-
ner. All these are indubitable sign* that
the period of the earth’s reawakening has
come round again—-for the thousand billionth
time or thereabouts, it may be. But the citi ■■
»en of New South Wales has a sign of his
own by which he knows the spring when it
arrives. It is a voice not wholly akin to
that of the arboreal jackass—a voice which
clamors in the office of the Chief Railway
Commissioner, telling him that the crop this
year will be heavy, if Providence is good to
the man on the land; that last year the
bogged and staggered railways broke down
beneath tne strain, to the farmer’s great
loss and discomfiture; and that this year
they will probably be bogged worse and
even more severely staggered. And the
gentle utterance of spring asks the Chief
Kailway Commissioner, as it has done so
often before, what he proposes to do about
the matter. And he sidesteps the question,
as he has so often done before, and tries to
change the subject to the weather. Then
the raging deputation goes out, and falls
blindly over the bones of a thousand other
deputations that came on the same errand,
and received the same abundant lack of
satisfaction. This is the great spring func-
tion of New South Wales. It is part farce
and part tragedy.
This year, it is intimated in a regretful
sort of way that though the very small cul-
tivated area of N.S.W. has increased a little,
it hasn’t increased much —not nearly so much
as it should have done considering the vigor-
ous growth of population and the heroic fuss
about land settlement. In fact, the move-
ment is just a little better than impercept-
ible. Last year, thanks to the policy which
insists that all commerce must be dragged
to Sydney, regardless of time and space and
distance and cost and common-sense, there
were on occasions 4,000,000 bags of wheat
lying at wayside stations awaiting removal.
This huge stock overflowed the goods sheds
and lay on the platforms or even in stacks
by the roadside, where it was rotted by the
sun and rain, and exposed to thieves and
birds and casual animals. There is only one
port to which produce is allowed to go for
export, for it is the policy of the unspeak-
ably parish-minded State Governments of
N.S.W. to hold that not only is all Australia
that isn’t N.S.W. an accursed place, but that
all N.S.W. which isn’t Sydney is almost
equally accursed. There are splendid sea
outlets in the State besides Sydney, but
every possible effort is made, by refusing
them railway connection, and by the lavish
absence of wharfage and other accessories,
to prevent them being used. And the efforts
have been so successful that the foreign
trade of every coastal town outside Sydney
(with the possible exception of Newcastle,
which has a local coal industry that can’t be
suppressed) is either declining or has van-
ished altogether. This concentration policy
is so disastrous to the farmer that the cul-
tivated area of the State actually began to
diminish after 1906, when the policy of drag-
ging everything to Sydney made its first
heroic breakdown. There was a drop in
1907, and a worse one in 1908. After that
there began a small revival, and the increase
of production in 1909 and 1910 almost drove
many farmers to madness because it was
again found impossible for the railways to
get everything to Sydney in reasonable time,
and many unsold crops decayed and perished
in odd corners. The wheat area in N.S.W.
sank from 1,939,447 acres to 1,394,056
acres between 1906 and 1909, despite the
fact that the steady rise in the markets
made the industry more and more profitable
—on paper. The price of wheat might
ascend continuously in London, but if the
goods were stranded at the railway siding of
Godforgotten, one price was much the same
as any other.
Among the countries which supply Britain
with the material for its imported Foreign-
trade loaf, Australia has now taken the place
once occupied by the United States. But
among the wheat-exporting States of Aus-
tralia, N.S.W., with all its natural advan-
tages, occupies a minor place. The Corn-
stalk farmer labors under disadvantages
which make his position precarious. If he
lives in the far north or south he has to pay
for the carriage of his produce over scores
or even hundreds of miles of needless dis-
tance, and for the dragging of it past adja-
cent ports which would serve his purpose
perfectly well at a fraction of the present
cost. And even when he is prepared to pay,
he often can’t get his material off his hands,
except after delays which mean serious de-
preciation and a long lingering wait for the
money which is, in many cases, badly
needed. The single lines that converge on
Sydney are blocked by the effort to shove
on to them the entire trade of the State.
The wretchedly-hampered freight train
which is dragging wheat 400 miles to Port
Jackson when it might have found an outlet
at another port with only 100 miles of travel,
can only make half or quarter, or even less,
speed by reason of the congestion. It takes
three weeks to get back for a fresh load
when it should, if allowed to run by a
straight line to the nearest good harbor, be
back at the original spot in about three
days. If. after much tribulation, it
reaches the goal of its ambition, it often
happens that the trucks have to stand for a
while with their loads because the struggle
to send away all the exports of the State
from the wharves of one city has created
another deadlock. At these wharves, be-
cause practically all the oversea passenger
and cargo trade of a vast State is crowded
there, only six grain ships can load at a
time. Of course, many more could load at
Jervis Bay, Twofold Bay, Port Stephens,
Goff’s Harbor, etc., if they were allowed,
but then they are not allowed. So with the
block on the ships, the stoppage on the
wharves behind the ships, and the deadlock
on the railways which lie behind the
wharves, and the wickedness or wooden-
headedness of the legislators who lie behind
it all, there is no resource for the farmer
when his patience is exhausted save to go
to some extent out of business. And the
reduction of the area under wheat by over
25 per cent, in three years suggests that, to
some extent, he went out. Later, he began
to come in again, and already he says he is
sorry. Although the rush of 1911 has hardly
commenced, there has already been an occa-
sion when country station-masters were
ordered to refuse all consignments of pro-
duce because the wharves of Sydney were
suffocated and everything was at a sort of
dead finish.
* * * *
The farmer in the west of N.S.W., whose
natural outlet is Sydney, suffers from all
these drawbacks save the needless and costly
and wildly superfluous haulage. He can’t
get quick despatch because his produce is
blocked on the railways and the wharves by
other produce which should go elsewhere.
(These remarks, of courge, only apply to the"
farmer of the near west. The cheap and
natural outlet for the man far out is either
through South Australia or via Portland in
western Victoria. This remote person can’t
get. railway communication with the port
which he wants because it is in another
State, and he can’t get railway communica-
tion with the port that he doesn’t want
because it wouldn’t pay, so he has no rail-
way communication. And, being unable to
get on without it, he lias almost ceased to
exist, consequently he no longer wants any-
thing.) Quaint and interesting are the
stories that are told of this policy of Need-
less Haulage. It often takes four or five
times as much as it need do in wages of
drivers, guards and firemen to drag a freight
train to its destination, because through
much congestion it is four or five times as
long on the road as it need be if the lines
were built on business princioles. It takes,
in many cases, four or five times as
much rolling stock as should be necessary
to carry the freight because a truck or loco-
motive only manages to do one journey
when, with a system which didn’t sacrifice
everything to the making of a huge dead-
lock at one bottle-necked city, it might easily
make four or five journeys. And partly by
reason of this absurd waste of money, Sydney
never seems able to get its North Shore
bridge and tunnel, or its city railway. At
the same time the policy of dragging all the
trade to one city and shoving, as far as pos-
sible, the whole increase of population into
one city, is producing its natural result in a
stupendous increase of rents. The working
man complains bitterly, but it is difficult to
see what else he could expect so long as he
votes for incurable parochialists of the Hol-
man type.
* * * *
The other day Sydney couldn’t even find a
berth, except in a sort of marine back slum
miles from the business centre, for the mail
steamer Ophir. Yet in the desire to crowd
everything into one already almost bursted
spot, the Congestion Party clamors to have
the whole Australian fleet put on to this
same spot. And after years of toil, the party
has managed to get the proposed port at
Jervis Bay limited to a perfectly dry frag-
ment which stops at high-water mark, so
that instead of N.S.W. having another sea-
outlet to relieve the pressure, the trade of
the Australian capital must also come to the
place which is almost off its head with won-
derment as to how to deal with the trade it
already possesses. Great and strenuous
things are now proposed as remedies for the
trouble. The report of the Decentralisation
Commission doesn’t seem to be the basis for
any of the present crop of theories, whereof
the most notable is a scheme for the dupli-
cation, at a cost of perhaps £20,000,000 or
£30,000,000, of the existing lines. For in
the frenzy of Congestion it is considered
better to build, perhaps. 2000 miles of new
line than to make the 80 miles or so of rail-
way which would connect the southern lines
with Melbourne in one direction and with
Twofold Bay in another, and give the north-
ern lines an alternative outlet at Port Ste-
phens. There is nothing in the actual volume
of the traffic to justify all this work as yet,
and the duplication, with all its enormous
cost, won’t reduce by a single mile the
superfluous haulage which is now breaking
the heart of the outlying farmer. Nor will
it in the least diminish the necessity to have,
in many places, four locomotives and 100
trucks to do the work that could easily be
done by one locomotive and 25 trucks. It
will also make the crush at Sydney worse
instead of better. And, at the best, this
wholesale duplication is a very long busi-
ness. Its completion is very far ahead, and
many big loans _ must be floated in the in-
terim. Meanwhile, the immediate trouble is
so great that it lias been seriously proposed
in the press to give stock trains precedence
over everything, even the mails and the ex-
press traffic. The reasons assigned are that
Sydney must have its chop or steak for break-
fast—which, under present conditions, is be-
coming a matter of difficulty ; and that the
stunned and wretched cow, after being bat-
tered for six days along a railway journey
which should be accomplished in 30 hours,
ceases to be an edible animal in any proper
sense of the term.
* * * *
So far as it is possible to judge, the only
people who profit by the present policy are
the landlords of Sydney—a class to which
the Government appears to have sold itself,
body and soul—and it is questionable if even
their gain is quite all that it appears to be.
The rest of the community reaps nothing but
loss. _ It pays the exorbitant rents caused by
the insane Congestion policy. It pays for
the Needless Haulage system, by which the
proper cost of transit is often multiplied by
three or four. It pays for the depreciation
of its produce when a million bags of wheat
are lying round in the wind and weather
waiting for the deadlock to clear up. It
pays the interest on the bank overdraft
while it is waiting for the long-postponed
chance to turn its crop into coin of the
realm. It is the loss of the community when
the cultivated area of N.S.W. drops by
270,000 acres, as it did between 1906 and
1908. And now, on top of all this, the pros-
pect of a still larger loss gibbers at the com-
munity. It is evident that something sudden
must be done, and the State is up against
two possibilities. It may, at huge expense,
furnish more facilities for concentrating the
State’s business at Sydney; it may do vast
duplications and resume some of the highest-
priced land in the State for wharfage pur-
poses ; it may thus force the already exorbi-
tant rents of the metropolis even higher;
and, after achieving all these strenuous deeds,
and running the public debt up to perhaps
£I50,000,000 ; it may leave some of the worst
evils, including the tendency of the remote
parts of the State to become depopulated, un-
touched. Or it may resume, for a compara-
tively small price, great areas of land at
some of the good but wholly-neglected har-
bors like Port Stephens and Twofold Bay;
build the few miles of railway over cheap
and almost untenanted country which will
connect them with the existing lines; and
construct wharves where land costs almost
nothing instead of in places where the pur-
chase money of the soil, if put into sove-
reigns and spread over the surface, would
almost shut out the view. And then it may
allow two or three new cities to grow up,
with the State as sole ground landlord, so
that the ground rents will, in time, render
State taxation almost superfluous. Whether
the Government at Sydney refuses to avail
itself of this splendid chance out of sheer
dull-wittedness, out of a deep-rooted hatred
of the principle of public land-ownership, out
of that strange reasonless loathing which it
seems to have for all Australia which isn’t
Sydney, out of its love for the rich Sydnev
landlord, or out of its fear of the retrograde
Sydney morning press, no one can say. But
in this matter, as in that of the Australian
capital, it toils as manfully in the interests
of the Tory, the capitalist and the ancient
retrogressionist as ever did Gregory Wade
or the most virulent of his associates.
THE COMMONWEALTH BANK AND
SOME SUNDRIES.
Among the Fisher Government’s schemes
and devices for the new Federal session are
included the establishment of a Common-
wealth Bank —a really national Bank of
Australia—and the passing of a Banking
Act which will put tne linancial institutions
of the country on a common basis. Exactly
what these two measures will be like re-
mains, at time of writing, a matter for con-
jecture ; but, meanwhile, the muddled Federal
note issue casts a long shadow over the fin-
ancial reputation of uie Ministry. Anyone
who has walked round the Federal note
arrangement, and viewed it from all points,
is justified in indulging gloomy anticipations
as to the future, it is not that the Fisher
Government is suspected of lack of intelli-
gence. Its trouble is that it has inherited
Alfred Deakin’s affability; that it is too
much afraid of offending its worst enemies;
that it hates to make a large, strenuous, new
departure except in matters lying within the
four corners of the Labor programme, which
programme is supplied to the Government
ready made. When it is obeying its printed
instructions, it is fairly . energetic. When
it strikes some big question on which it has
no definite nrinted instructions, it is a polite
and hesitating and rather futile affair, w r hich
carries its hat in its hand, and is capable of
apologising to a cow if it happens to collide
with the animal.
It was announced, the other day, that the
Federal note issue had reached £9,275,969.
That is to say, the Government had issued
that amount in paper and received gold in
exchange. It held £4,527,033 of coin as a
reserve against its notes —a sum which would
be absurdly large if the Government had
taken any sensible and adequate steps to
keep its paper in circulation, but which is
probably none too extensive, seeing that the
Commonwealth depends on the forbearance
of the banks to prevent its paper being sud-
denly presented for payment in one exciting
barrow-load. If it nad adopted the simple
ana effective device of requiring the banks to
hold a certain proportion of their cash re-
serves (in Canada the proportion is 40 per
cent.) in Federal paper money, and to pay
their customers in Federal £1 notes on de-
mand, it would have had a very much larger
circulation. Also, the circulation would have
been much more steady and reliable, and a
smaller gold reserve would have furnished
ample security. In other words, the Aus-
tralian Government would have been able to
make use of a very much larger quantity of
gold. However,.considering the use it made
of such gold as it was able to dispose of, it
is perhaps just as well that the amount was
no larger.
The Government had a great opportunity,
and did little good with it. A while ago
it obtained, by referendum, a direct mandate
from the people to take over the whole of
tne State debts, and when it takes them over
it is almost bound, according to its avowed
principles, to establish a sinking fund for
their repayment. The taking over of the
debts being a difficult and complicated pro-
blem, and also one in which the Labor Con-
terence takes little interest, it has done abso-
lutely nothing. The mandate of the people,
for all the results that have yet appeared,
might just as well never have been given.
Still the opportunity to do something, and
to do it simply and easily, and without a
single penny of cost, was, and still is, visi-
bly present. The Government has had about
£4,750,000 of gold to dispose of. It might,
had it been less timid, have had £10,000,000
or £32,000,000 available for investment with
absolute safety. And if, with this amount,
it had proceeded to buy up the cheapest
State securities in the market —-some of
them are quoted as low as £B2 for £lOO
worth of stock —and had set the interest
aside as a permanent fund for the repur-
chase of more State securities, the process to
go on till all the State debts were redeemed,
it would have produced certain notable re-
sults. (1) It would have started in real
earnest to fulfil its mandate to take over the
State debts. (2) It would have lived up to
its professions as the party of solvency and
honesty by commencing to wipe off the said
debts. (3) It would have founded its Fed-
eral note issue upon a rock by putting some-
thing like 20s. 6d. of cash and saleable secur-
ities behind each £1 note at the very begin-
ning of things, and the security would have
grown larger every year until there would
have been £5 or £lO or £l5 or £2O of cash and
saleable, or pawnable, securities behind each
£1 note. And it could have done all this —
even the ultimate complete extinction of the
State debts —without the process costing the
country a single copper.
Unfortunately, the Government had no
very large ambitions, and when it had to
deal with a question on which there were no
specific instructions provided in. the party
programme, it lacked the courage to attempt
the Bigger Things. When once it reached
a place wffiere its sailing orders were not
clearly laid down, it was as affable and as
hesitating as Alfred Deakin himself. It
established its note issue on lines which
made the circulation small, which made the
existence of even that small circulation de-
pendent on the forbearance of the private
banks, which gave the Government about as
little money as possible, and which com-
pelled it to hold a very large proportion of
that little money as a reserve for the sort of
emergency that the private banks could
bring about at any moment. Yet with all
these disadvantages, it had some loose cash
—about 4J millions —to play with, and in
the use to which it put this sum it made a
remarkable display of its capacity for throw-
ing away large opportunities. Instead of
applying the fund to the purchase of the
cheapest State securities in the market, and
thus getting perhaps £llO worth of stock for
£lOO, it offered its few millions Jto the States
in the shape of new loans, and thus got
only £lOO worth of stock ' for each
£lOO. In place of teaching economy it in-
cited the States to fresh and extra
extravagance by crying out that it had
cash to lend, and was simply craving to find
borrowers. The States never require much
incentive to borrow, and they rushed the op-
portunity with such energy that N.S.W. last
year added over £4,000,000 to its debt, and
is now getting on a worse jag than ever, and
borrowing at the glorious rate of £5,000,000
per annum, or a little more. By inciting
the States to increase their liabilities the
Federal authority has made the job of tak-
ing over their debts—the job for which the
neglected popular mandate was given quite
a long time ago—so much the more difficult.


The Commonwealth, having lent some
£4,000,000 to the States, now holds and re-
ceives the interest upon a certain quantity
of State securities. But instead of that in-
terest being set aside as a fund, accumulating
at compound interest, for the purchase of
more and more and still more State securi-
ties, it is treated as part of the ordinary
Federal revenue. So the taking over of the
State debts makes no progress. The extinc-
tion of the State debts makes no progress.
The Federal note issue doesn't'expand much,
nor does it become any more secure, because
there is no increase in the reserve behind it.
The Federal note issue still exists by the suf-
ferance or forbearance of the private banks.
Finally, the Australian Government has de-
liberately taught the States a new lesson in
extravagance, by hawking money about as if
it was so much fruit on a barrow, and calling
on thriftless State Premiers to come and
get six bananas in a bag for threepence.
The present Australian Government has
certainly been honest in a plodding, unimag-
inative sort of fashion. But it has put up
such a dismal record as a waster of oppor-
tunities that it is difficult to enthuse in the
old fashion about the proposal to found _ a
Commonwealth Bank. The institution will
almost certainly be a solvent bank. It will
doubtless be an honest bank. It will be full
of good intentions. But, if the Fisiier Gov-
ernment can find a chance, by carefully fol-
lowing the advice of its enemies, the Tory
press, to make it a bank that will only
earn 2d. where it might easily earn
Is., the Fisiier Government, on its past
record, seems safe to seize that chance with
both hands.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
How an Assembly Was Not Utterl.
Degraded.
On the authority of “Common Law Side ’:
It is plain that the official “Liberal’’ lie for the
impending general election in N. S. Wales will be
that the “dignity and honor of Parliament ’ have
been “degraded,” “dragged in the mire,” and so
forth, in connection witli the Speakership bus.ness.
In view of the Hood of mendacity that must soon
start whirling round this matter, it is well to
present the facts of the case right away. Let it be
understood, in the first place, that, before the
Speaker is elected, under the existing system, the
House is to all intents and purposes its own master.
The Clerk of Parliament, who is nominally in
charge, hasn’t even the powers of the chairman of a
public meeting. He may point to this or that
member, as a sign that the person indicated may
speak, but there nis authority ends. Those in favor
of obstruction may babble on indefinitely about any-
thing or nothing, and those in favor of riot are at
liberty to struggle on the floor of the Assembly, and
gnaw each other’s ears; and none may say them nay.
In the N. S. Wales House, the other day, there was
a deliberate plot to take advantage of the situation
for the purpose of holding up the business of the
country. The idea was that the Opposition should
keep the debate going to such an interminable ex-
tent, that the Lieutenant-Governor would be driven
in despair to dissolve Parliament. When Speaker
Willis' took the Chair the scheme had been in opera-
tion for 20 hours ; one “Liberal” had filled in time
by reading an entire speech that had been delivered
by another man in another Parliament months be-
fore; and there was every indication of the insane
business continuing for weeks. The ‘ Liberal
papers were to assist in the event of the Lieutenant-
Governor showing a stiff lip, with editorials of
gradually-increasing violence, urging that an imme-
diate dissolution was the only cure for an intoler-
able situation. The placing of Henry AVillis m the
Chair by the Labor party frustrated this pleasing
arrangement; and it is hard to understand how any
citizen claiming to aspire after decency, law and
order and the rest, can cavil at the circumstance.
A closely analogous situation arose in the House
of Commons over a quarter of a century ago. The
Irish members, by virtue of the primitive rules of
procedure of the day, had reduced obstruction to a
fine art. The business of the British Parliament
threatened to be held up indefinitely. One night,
after a debate had been strung out for days, ana
while Joseph Biggar was steadily reading a Blue
Book from cover to cover —his supply of oratory
having temporarily run short —Speaker Brand broke
in with the words “Discussion on this question has
proceeded far enough.” And the debate ended. The
uproar was terrific. It was conceded on all sides
that the Speaker’s action was illegal—a point
which is by no means conceded in regard to the
recent action of Henry Willis and his supporters.
But it contained the elements of equity and horse-
sense, and that was good enough for the country.
Within a few months the Amended Rules of Pro-
cedure were passed, making wilful and fractious
obstruction an impossibility. . _ . ,
The action of Henry Willis in taking the Speaker s
Chair has not “degraded Parliament,” nor has the
action of the Labor party in putting him there
“trailed the Assembly in the mire.” In fact, an
exactly opposite effect has been produced;—as will
be admitted by anyone who reflects on the hideous
possibilities of a House wherein political hooligans
of the Wood-Onslow-Fitzpa trick breed were
suffered to rage indefinitely in a masterless state.
Also, the AVillis affair has been of value, inasmuch
as it has called attention to the need of new rules
regarding the appointment of the Speaker. As
things are, it is possible for an adroit and unscrupu-
lous Opposition to deny the Government of the day
a Speaker for practically as long as it pleases. With-
out a doubt, had the WADE-ites been skillfully gen-
eralled, they would still be debating the Speakership
matter. This contingency requires to be wiped out.
The Clerk of Parliament should be relieved of the
brief and exiguous authority he holds while the
Speaker is being chosen. A more rational plan
would be to put some Parliamentarian of weight
(preferably an ex-Speaker) in the Chair, and invest
him, temporarily, with all the powers to quell dis-
order or deliberate prolixity that the real Speaker
holds. Thus would such unpleasant spectacles as
those which threatened, last month, to debase the
N.S.AV. Assembly for an indefinite period, be obviated
for all time.
The Ghost of Yassberra.
A man who got a rather cold reception on
the opening day of the Australian Parlia-
ment was Palmer. M.H.R., who propounded
the theory that no more money should be
spent on the proposed Australian capital at
Yassberra until the people had had a chance
to declare, by a straight out vote at a refer-
endum, whether they wanted any blessed
Yassberra capital at all. It was annoying
of Palmer to rake up the subject, for the
very name of that old controversy arouses
unpleasant memories. It reminds a certain
crowd of cowardly or unscrupulous Labor-
ites (and a certain crowd of equally cow*
ardly or unscrupulous “Liberals”) how they
sold the interests of Australia, and how they
turned dog on the allegedly sacred princi-
ple of the referendum and declared the
people unfit to manage their own affairs,
partly because the only real principle that
some of them owned was the principle of
dragging all trade to Sydney, and partly
because some more of them were afraid of
the hollow but infuriated WadE and the
Tory press of the N.S.W. metropolis. Pal-
mes’s words recalled mean shifts, petty lies,
shabby dodges, low-down treacheries, dirty
expedients, cheap shufflings and threadbare
betrayals, all of which the Yassberra push
Simply hates to have dragged again into the
light of day. In order to gratify the crowd
which wants Australia to have a mean, un-
worthy capital, lest one that is lit to be the
centre of a whole continent should over-
shadow the adjacent big State cities, many
strange and smellful things were done. Ihe
report of the eminent N.S.W. Lands official
who was specially appointed to advise on
sites, and who gave his unhesitating vote tor
Monaro, was set aside. The records of the
N S W. Government Meteorologist, published
by the N.S.W. State Government, and show-
ing the district to be almost the driest in
eastern N.S.W., were treated as a series ot
lies. The report of the Federal Commis-
sioners declaring the place to be unsuitable,
and the water supply inadequate, was
shunted out of sight. The evidences ot com-
parative sterility shown in the agricultural
reports of the N.S.W. State Statistician,
were ignored just as if they had never ex-
isted. ‘ The proviso that the Federal site
must be at least 100 miles from Sydney was
strained to the extent that part ot the Aus-
tralian capital territory is only 87 miles trom
Sydney. In order to make certain that the
metropolis of Australia shall be a mere
suburb or annexe of Sydney, existing for the
greater profit and glory of the Sydney land-
lords for whom Hughes and Watson and
McGowen and Holman seem to care so ten-
derly, the scrap of land called the Federal
port was made to end at high-water mark, so
that not even a skiff can sail, except on the
sufferance of the State authorities, into the
so-called seaport. All these and a hundred
other petty meannesses had to be done be-
fore the Sydney Congestion Party came out
on top, and those who have the dirt of them
on their clothes and their consciences natur-
ally dislike any avoidable stirring up of
the ancient mess. Yet the misery of. the
business is that they can’t avoid at times
stirring up the old mess themselves. For
instance, some months ago, when it was pro-
posed that the world should be invited to
send in plans for the new city, it was neces-
sary to give the world some kind of descrip-
tion of the place so that it would know
what it was doing. And this was part of the
account of the balmy Land of Promise as
set forth by the people who Avere responsible
for it: —
The greater part of the city area lies on the Mo-
longlo River, and during periods of prolonged dry
weather the river ceases to run. It is readily fordable
at short intervals during the greater part of the year,
though subject to sudden alterations in volume. In
1891 the highest recorded flood took place, when
the waters overflowed the selected site for the
Federal capital. The maximum recorded summer
temperature is 104°.. .During winter the tempera-
ture frequently falls below freezing point.
That was the best face the Yassberra-ites
could put on their alleged Paradise when
they had to furnish something like a recog-
nisable description of it. It isn’t at all like
the descriptions they used .to give in the
glad old days when they toiled so manfully
in the cause of Congestion. Australia is to
have, it seems, the only white man’s capital
..in the world that is neither on a harbor, a
lake or a permanent-river. It isn’t a cheer-
ing prospect for those who think more of
Australia than of the policy .of dragging
everything to Sydney. And it is no v/onder
that the persons who constructed this insult
to their country looked coldly on. Palmer,
M.H.R., when he dug up the remains of the
great job and proposed that the people
should at last be allowed to express a direct
opinion upon it. Whenever this question re-
appears on the surface the astonishment of
Attorney-General Hughes and his clique
that anyone should propose to consult the
people, or that the people should want any
voice in the matter, is like unto the stag-
gered aspect of the old-time aristocrat when
he heard for the first time that the common
folk had souls. Yet the odds will pro-
bably be against Hughes and his parochial
gang in the end, and the day will come
when Yassberra will be a deserted capital,
and a decayed monument to the madness ot
its builders.
The State-Feeding of Anti-Socialists.
This is the season of the year when the pub-
lic-spirited citizens who associate themselves,
in a purely honorary capacity, with A., 11.
and P. Shows, are faced with the trying
problem of doing as well as possible for
themselves and their relatives and friends
out of the game, and at the same time still-
ing the infernal clamor which their methods
provoke among the general public. F Tin-
stance, according to a recent Melbourne
Mr. Coles, at the monthly meeting of the council
of the Ballarat Agricultural and Pastoral So-
ciety, referred to the recent anxiety regarding the
unsatisfactory condition of the finances of the so-
ciety, which necessitated a bank overdraft. While
complaint was being made in this respect, he found
that the society was extravagant in providing
numerous free luncheons at the two shows held eac.i
year under the auspices of the society. At the
Sheep Show last year the society, although in a
struggling condition, provided no fewer than 169
free luncheons, while at the Spring Show, held a few
weeks subsequently, 192 persons were entertained
on the grounds at luncheon. .. He moved that in
future no free luncheons, excepting for judges, be
Pr< Mr. Braznor, secretary, pointed out that it would
be impossible to make the proposed HteraHmi this
vear, as luncheon arrangements for the coming
Shows had already been made with the caterers.
The luncheon is the most prominent feature
of every Show which draws a i tor t Gov-
ernment subsidy. It doesn’t improve the
breed of sheep or cows, and, owing to the
vast quantity and mostly rotten quality of
the liquor supplied, its tendency is to deteri
orate the human beings who partake ot it.
It interferes with the real business of the
dav. (The writer recalls a W estern N.b.\\.
Show Avhere the officials emerged from the
leeuiiig tent at O.ou p.m. to juuge an event
timed for 2.15 p.m., and emerged in such a
palpably blithered condition that the bucolic
Avits of the place flung clods at them.) And
the meal costs so much —owing to the pr-
vailing custom of asking to it prettywe
everyone in the district who can afford to
pay for his own sustenance—that it keeps
the Anti-Socialists who organise Perpetu-
ally howling for more subsidy-money. In all
the circumstances, it is about up to the pub-
lic which finds the cash for this function to
ask AVhy it finds the cash? p
is no more reason Avhy A., H- prid 1. otticiais
should squander large .quantities of Gov ern
meht money on free victuals fot themselves,
their relatives and their friends than that
they should use the cash to buy diamonds
for barmaids. The various State Govern*
Lmfre e t n he usual'£ fo?£subsidy will
be withheld from those Shows which feature
a large, unnecessary food supply , and it
would if* them in many ways to do it.
The Case of Dry Brown.
“Herman Hogg” writes
I don’t think that Dry Brown, State Attorney-
General of Victoria, is the fool some people imagine,
with his claim that Victoria should possess the
Riverina. Rather I think he is on a very good
wicket —almost an infallible wicket if Brown is a
decent sort of batsman. In fact, his case seems so
good that it is difficult to imagine why it_ wasn’t
carried to the Courts long ago. According to
British Act of Parliament, the boundary between
Victoria and N.S.W. is “a straight line drawn from
Cape Howe to the nearest source of the River
Murray, and thence by the course of that river,” etc.
Now, certain facts stand out just here like fishing-
rods: (1) The topmost waters of the Murrumbidgee
are among the sources of the Murray. It is the con-
fluence of the Murrumbidgee and the old Hume
River which make the Murray! it was only in com-
paratively recent years that the name Murray has
been regularly applied to that part of the river
which lies above the junction of the Murrumbidgee.
The Murrumbidgee is a much more important source
of the Murray than the Indi, to which the boundary
line is drawn; and unless the N.S.W. Government
gets a spade and diverts the head waters of the Mur-
rumbidgee in quite a new direction, nothing can pre-
vent it being a source of the Murray. (2) Every
map shows that the head waters of the Murrumbidgee
(which afterwards helps to make the Murray) fire
much -nearer to Cape Howe than the head waters of
the Indi (which also helps to make the Murray).
(3) The most visible reason why the line was drawn
from Cape Howe, not to the head waters of the
Murrumbidgee, which are the nearest sources of the
Murray, but to the head waters of the Indi, which
are many miles more remote, thus cutting away the
Riverina from Victoria and adding it to N.S.W., is
that the Sydney Government had most of the job of
laying out the boundary. (4) And by way <>f col-
lateral evidence, the old District of Port Phillip,
which later became Victoria, extended from the
Murrumbidgee southward to the sea. Therefore,
Dry Brown of Victoria has a case —it almost looks
like an overwhelming case. Anyhow, if he carries
his point and annexes Riverina, it should be a
mio-hty good thing for Riverina. For then the half-
dozen Victorian railways which now stop dead at
the present border-line will be able to cross the
riveri and give Riverina short, straight, cheap lines of
communication with a much more adjacent port
than Sydney. In this matter the Yass-Canberra
push scattered away an opportunity. If the Aus-
tralian capital (which is to be fixed within the
boundaries of N.S.W.) had been located on Monaro
inside the Debatable Land, that would have amounted
to a recognition bv the Australian Parliament that
the Debatable Land is in N.S.W and not in Vic-
toria And if it had been so fixed without any pro-
test from the State Government of Victoria—tlm theii
Vic Government showed no desire. to protest that
would have amounted to a recognition by Victoria
that the Debatable Land is in N.S.W. and not m
Victoria. In fact, it was in the power of N.S.W. to
mike Victoria give away its case. The chance was
neglected, and now Dry Brown, of Melbourne, has a
very good show if he has the energy to push the
matter to a finish. The most uncertain item in the
case is the perseverance and tenacity of Dry Brown.
Does anybody know anything of Brown? In fact,
does Brown exist?
♦
An Officer and a (Prospective) Pauper.
Reference was made in the Australian Par-
liament, last week, to the meagre pay ot Area
Officers, and to the sweating that prevails m
the military service generally. _ The indict-
ment didn’t go far enough. It is a scandal,
for example, that there should be no pen-
sions for army officers. In every other army
on the civilised earth the regular fighting-
man is provided with a pension proportion-
ate to the rank he holds on leaving the ser-
vice In Australia tne soldier drifts into
private life without a farthing. The anom-
aly is obvious when it is remembered that
every civil servant, from the highly-salaried
front-rankers down to postmasters and
policemen, have certain pension rights. Other
countries are particularly considerate of
those who give their services to the State.
Only last July a resolution was carried in
the British Parliament increasing the then
maximum pension of £lOOO per annum for
Dominion Governors to £l3OO per annum.
And a similar tendency is observable else-
where. There is particular need that Aus-
tralia should make its military service worth
while, in a financial manner of speaking. Our
army carries no social or other prestige. In
fact, as one legacy of the muddling volunteer
system which prevailed in the States before
Federation, it is commonly regarded as
something of a jest, not to say a byword,
and there is no sort of a rush to break into
it. The only way the country can wipe out
that highly undesirable prejudice is by at-
tracting to the service men of character and
intelligence; and lots of them. And the sole
means by which that is going to be achieved
is by offering brainy men reasonable induce-
ments to make soldiering their life profes-
sion. As things are, a captain has to retire
at 40, a major at 45, and a lieutenant-
colonel at 48. It may be due to no fault on
the officer’s part that he did not get his
step, and is among those who are thrown
out on a co'd world at the age of two
score; it may be merely a matter of his
superiors being a long-lived lot. Yet he must
go, and —if he is an Australian —set about
the forlorn hope of finding a new job in his
middle age. Obvously such a system is no
good to anyone but a soldier of independent
means. For various reasons, besides the
powerful one above-mentioned, the army
offers scant allurement, as a calling, to the
moneyed Australian. And, in any case, it.
is the capable Australian —who sometimes is
born into a moneyed clan, but far more often
is not —whom it is desirable to attract. As
in every other walk of life, this class of citi-
zen will carefully eschew the profession of
soldiering unless he can discern a prospect of
reasonable comfort at the beginning, middle
and end of the job. Hutton fought hard for
a military pension system when he was in
Australia ; Kitchener has recommended the
reform in his official report, and likewise
verbally. If the Australian Government has
any arguments in rebuttal, it should . put
them forward; otherwise it has no justifica-
tion for delaying a measure that appears as
wise as it is equitable.
-♦
Men of Peace.
Ramsay Macdonald, one of the lamentable
British Labor members who have at various
times afflicted Australia, has been writing
silly advice to this country in the British
Friend, and Sydney Telegraph, character-
istically enough, gives him a heap of space.
Says Ramsay :
I disagree with Australia when it assumes that its
domestic politics require the backing of force. The
one influence above all others that will justify the
policy of a White Australia to the world, and keep
it safe in the long run for Australia itself, is that it
is not backed up by force, but by the elementary
justice of the case. ...
From the military point of view the citizen army
is unnecessary, because it presupposes invasion, a
thing which practically every military and naval
authority deems impossible. . . . The Australian
Government is said to have been advised to the Same
effect, and when one takes into account, not merely
the geographical difficulties, but those of a financial
and political nature, in which Japan will be involved
for years, one can appreciate a remark 1 heard from
a high military authority, that a plan for the in-
vasion of Australia by Japan would be worth the
while of the Editor of Punch to look at, but would
not be worth space in the archives of the Admiralty.
Moreover, for the time being, our treaty with
Japan should give Australia an added sense of
security, and, in the present moment of transition
between a military organisation and a judicial
system for the settlement of disputes, it is a great
pity that Australia should begin a policy ot mili-
tarism. This will hamper the fulfilment of an object
which the rest of the world is beginning to set its
heart upon with more and more determination, as
the result of experience of armies and navies
the establishment of an International Court which
will end militarism and establish peace.
They are wonderful talkers, these Peace
Society folk, but they somehow fail to carry
conviction. The idea that the White Aus-
tralia policy, without even a gun behind it,
should depend on the “elementary justice
of its case is very beautiful as coming from
a party which finds that the elementary jus-
tice of its own case doesn’t impress the local
landlord, monopolist, sweater, criminal or
House of Lords worth a cent. And it would
be interesting to know the name of even one
of these alleged or bogus military, and .naval
authorities who declare that the invasion ot
Australia is “impossible.” But the rare jest
of the whole story is that, picture ot an m-
ternational court which will settle all inter-
national differences without resort to force
the court which won’t have a single regi-
ment to enforce its decrees, yet will be im-
plicitly obeyed—on the good days of the mil-
lennium when the vegetarian lion slumbers
with its ear resting on the lamb.
Even the House of Commons has its
police and its chucker-out; and a
plain little English police court has
one or two vast bobbies on hand to pre-
vent the accused throwing his boots at the
magistrate. No court which hadn’t a police-
man handv ever amounted to much in this
world. Arbitration tribunals are very handy
when neither party wants to fight, and each
is looking for a chance to back out with dig-
nity • but they are of no service at any other
time.’ When poor little Korea carried its
case against Japan to the Hague tribunal
it haupened that Japan reallv wanted to
fight, and the blessed tribunal, knowing that
in such circumstances if didn’t amount to a
row of pins, saved its face bv disqualifying
the gentlemen from Korea, and chasing them
off the premises. Korea with an effective
army might have been listened to, but an
unarmed Korea was anybody’s stray dog.
♦
Batchelor, Minister of External Affairs,
has finally dismissed the matter of Hop Poon
Gooey, his Chinese wife and newborn Chink-
lin°' from the sphere of sentimental agita-
tion. The plaints of Hop Gooey and Ins
parson friends w T ere blown into space by the
cold breath of Batchelor. Gooey, of Gee-
long, before going to Hongkong to marry a
Chinawoman, got permission to bring her
with him for a six months’ honeymoon when
he returned to Australia. He delayed his
return so that his wife might produce a baby
within the six months’ limit, and the period
was extended to nine montns to allow of the
tinted matron being fit for deportation to
Hongkong. Meanwhile, Gooey and the par-
sons assailed the Australian Government
with arguments touching social morality, the
sanctity of the home, and precedental cases
of Chows who had been specially permitted
to establish Chow wives, in this country.
Gooey had evidently designed to lure the
Law into a further indiscretion by the grace
of Batchelor, but Batchelor is rigidly urn
gracious. Therefore Mrs. Gooey will return
to Hongkong in fulfilment of her husband’s-
contract, tAing her baby with her. It
rested with the Government to maintain the
law of local man, and if Mr. Hop Gooey
lias any sincere regard for the law of Goff
which the parsons speak about, he will not
part himself from wife and offspring. Goff
When the Shoddy Idols Go.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Truer faith this nation needeth —-we shall
build the Commonweal
When the larger Creed succeedeth and the
ancient idols reel!
Man who marches through the ages leaves
behind him changing creeds;
From his day’s swift-turning pages hner
truth and wisdom reads !
For the Past with galling shackle binds the
prisoned soul of man,
And its priests with cunning tackle, strangle
Progress for a span !
But new hymns of adoration in our hearts
are breathing low ; .
And this Land shall be a Nation when the
Shoddy Idols go !
We have bowed to idols olden, mumbled
creeds of dumb despair;
Swinging censers rich and golden we have
climbed the altar stair!
But the Truth that will not slumber, woke
our hearts with sudden pain,
And our father’s joss is lumber that we pass
in new disdain !
Man who drags his old gods slowly through
the everlasting years,
Spurns at, last each image holy, and his
prayers are changed to jeers !
So our fathers dragged Tradition over seas,
and bended low —
Fails the last, lone superstition when their
Shoddy Idols go!
Thought and Will —these make the Nation,
for the courage of the soul ,
Stirs the flesh with jubilation when its faith
is strong and whole!
Wherefore we shall doubt no longer—doubt
is handmaid unto Death ;
Find ye creeds of Truth and stronger, thus
the law eternal saith !
And this land is Truthward turning in these
new, aspiring days—
When the hearts of men are burning, clear
the path, unbar the ways !
And they see the newer dawning—signs are
these that plainly show-
That the sepulchre is yawning where the
Shoddy Idols go.
Stronger faith this land requireth—with the
soul as well as steel,
With the Truth that man desireth we shall
build the Commonweal!
Man who marches through the ages leaves
dead creeds and faiths behind ;
And To-morrow’s priests and sages will not
crucify the Mind !
For the Past with fetters galling strangled
Thought upon her bier,
But the sound of idols falling echoes loudly
in mine ear!
Hail! New hymns of jubilation in our
hearts now swing and glow;
And this land shall be a Nation when the
Shoddy Idols go!
VICTORIA.
GRANT HERVEY.


*S6
X
¥ EADING Australian
Company transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident 8
Live Stock Insurance.
International Patents and Trade
Marks. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street,
Melbourne, and Eagle Chambers, Adelaide.
Thirty years’ practice. Correspondence invited.*
CjHOWMEN! Write for particulars of the
Kelvin Generating Set for cheap electric
lighting. Jerdan’s Ltd., 393 George Street,
Sydney.
CINEMATOGRAPH EXHIBITORS!
and all who use Cinematograph Machines
and Accessories, should call or write to
HARRINGTONS Ltd.
The Leading- Cinematograph House, 386 GEORGE
STREET, SYDNEY, and at Melbourne, Brisbane,
Adelaide, Auckland and Wellington, N.Z.
Our Film Hire Library is the Largest in Australasia.
BEFORE YOU BUY
AN OIL ENGINE
see the “INVINCIBLE
For QUALITY and ECONOMY they
CANNOT be surpassed. Engines for
ALL purposes, Marine or Stationary, and
at MOST REASONABLE PRICES.
EVERY ENGINE IS GUARAN-
TEED FOR FIVE YEARS.
Invincible Motor Construction Co., Ltd.,
WORKS: Woolwich Dock, Sydney.
SHOWROOMS : 35 Pitt Street, Sydney.
And at Melbourne and Adelaide.
ZENOBIA
Perfumes
As supplied to H.M.
QUEEN ALEXANDRA.
Sweet Pea
Blossom.
Lilyof the
Valley
Natural.
Nigfiit-
■Scented
Stock.
The Zenobia Per-
fumes charm
everyone by their
absolute fidelity
to Nature and
their Refreshing
and Lasting
Fragrance.
r%%
S'-’B*’
v
Manufactured at the Zenobia Laboratories, Lough-
borough, England. To be obtained from leading
Chemists and Stores.
Wholesale Agents for Australia:
THE AUSTRALIAN MFC. & IMPORTING CO. LTD..
108 Pitt Street, Sydney.
has joined them together. If Hop continues
to gather riches in Geelong, he will lay up no
treasure in Heaven. Also, he will be playing
Mrs. Hop Gooey a dirty trick. Social mor-
ality calls him to Hongkong. In fact, H.
Gooey cannot get to Heaven unless he travels
via Hongkong, and starts pretty soon.
S. M. Herald, after referring acidly
(l/9/’ll) to “the dovecotes and dog ken-
nels in place of human habitations” that
the city landlord has been in the habit of
letting to the poor, proceeded as follows:—
The municipalities within reasonable distance of
the city are at the present juncture afforded an op-
portunity to do for the working classes what their
British compeers have done with excellent results.
If it pays Private Enterprise to put up cottages
suitable to the demands of the house-hunters, it is
reasonable to assume that municipal enterprise
would be similarly successful, and it is equally
reasonable to assume that a better class of dwelling
could be erected, and still let at a rental that would
pay the authorities without exposing the tenant to
the harsh conditions he has at present to face.
This clarion call for State landlordism
reads curiously in a sheet which, a year or
so ago, was representing Socialism to be all
the calamitous things George lleid said it
was. Furthermore, if it is desirable that
the ordinary common or garden council
should build and let houses as a means of
rescuing the indigent from the extortionate
treatment of the Private Enterprise land-
lord, it is obviously desirable, also, that the
State should sell gas, ferry trips, etc. (these
monopoly-controlled necessaries being notor-
iously extortionate in price and poor in
quality at present) ; and when that is ad-
mitted, it is hard to see what distinction
there is between the Herald’s point of
view and that of a mere Socialistic organ.
+
What the “Scotch Australians” of Mel-
bourne said to the Commonwealth’s Minister
of Defence last week, whilst petitioning for
a reprieve of the condemned Vic. Scottish
Regiment in Kilts, was almost as weak-
minded as the Minister’s reply. Having
stated that the question was a “racial one,”
involving glorious traditions of Scottish regi-
mental prowess in Britain’s wars, they
drifted into health reasons, and declared that
“the British Medical Association has given
the palm to the kilt as a soldier’s dress.”
Now, considering that the V.S.R. warriors
have rarely worn their legs uncovered in the
past, and would not have to remove their
pants much oftener if the Commonwealth
sanctioned their racial distinctiveness, it is
obvious that their kilts, under the circs., are
more conducive to rheumatism than helpful
to health. The racial argument is pernicious,
and the sanitary argument doesn’t wash.
Minister Pea.rce, in reply, laid down the
good Australian law of policy as regards
clans, sects and the symbols thereof—the
law that a general uniformity of Australian
army uniform makes for uniformity of Aus-
tralian sentiment. The army cannot have a
national outfit if part of it wears kilts, or
other ancient forms of foreign clothing. Or
the kilted section cannot be called national.
Having declared the policy, the Minister
proceeded to tamper with his principles. He
said he would consider the matter of allow-
ing the Vic. Scottish Regiment to enroll re-
cruits on its own,” and would not object
it regiments desired to retain, at their own
expense, special uniforms for special occa
sions. In short, the Minister, although
convinced of the necessity for an Australian
national sentiment in army clothing, would
be prepared to let foreign racial sentiment
clothe itself in un-Australian finery on special
national occasions.
The following is from Dalgety’s Review :
A notable shipment of merino rams and ewes
was placed aboard the Georgic last week for South
African ports. The sheep came from a number of
the noted studs and flocks in N. S. Wales... Our
stud- and flock-masters welcome the South African
buyers, and there is no embargo or high export duty
placed on sheep by Commonwealth laws. This
stand is in marked contrast to the prohibitive duty
placed on ostriches and Angora goats by the S
African Government. The South Africans come here
for the best types of Australian sheep for wool-
growing purposes, and every opportunity is afforded
them for securing the very best rams and ewes at
the same prices as are charged to Australian flock-
masters. There is no attempt to monopolise merino
wool-growing in Australia as there is in regard to
mohair and ostrich feather-growing in S. Africa.
Whether the freedom of Australians should be re-
ciprocated by the South Africans, or whether the
restrictions of the South Africans should be followed
by the Australians, it is not for us to say; it is
sufficient to point out the anomalous state of affairs,
for wool-growing to Australian pastoralists is fully
as important as Angora- and ostrich-breeding is to
South African farmers.
Of course it is, but “our flockmasters wel-
come the S. African buyers,” and the above
wise remarks appear in a paper that none
but the flockmaster reads. In the interests
of the nation’s ereat industry, the “anomal-
ous state of affairs” should be published in
newspapers that the other Australian reads.
Generations of Australian sheepowners have
evolved a sheep that is superior to all others,
and unpatriotic individuals are allowed to
sell to foreign countries this hard-won
national asset. The sheepman owns the
sheep, but the type belongs to the nation. An
export duty is not sufficient. Only total pro-
hibition will answer.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Hkr Majesty’s Melba Opera Co.
“ ,OYAI, “ A Waltz Dream.”
Criterion “The Witness for the Defence.”
Adklpiii “ The Angel of His Dreams.”
livoli RieKards' Vaudeville Co.
f alack “Nobody’s Daughter.”
Cyckum Spencer’s Pictures.
National Amphitheatre Brennan’s Vaudeville Go.
L YRIC Continuous Pictures.
Colonial (Nos. 1 &2).. Continuous Pictures.
Alhambra Continuous Pictures.
Olaciarium West’s Pictures.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK
Princess’s “ The Speckled Band.”
Her Majesty’s “Hamlet.”
{J ~VAI' “ The Chocolate Soldier.”
King's “ Struck Oil.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co
Glaciarium Ice Skating.
West’s Palace West’s Pictures.
Olympia Spencer’s Pictures.
Lyric, Prahran Photo Plays.
“Samson and Delilah,’’ which is being-
done occasionally at Her Majesty’s (Syd-
ney), has one supreme merit that is almost
unique in grand opera productions. The
stars not only sing, but look and act their
parts. Eleonora de Cisneros is a born Deli-
—a gorgeous sample of feminine grace
and vitality and vast barbaric beauty. Zeni
is the only operatic tenor the writer has
heard or seen who possesses the physical at-
tributes of a Samson. They make an epic
spectacle as they tower above the small,
whining Israelites and the latter’s degen-
erate-looking oppressors. Saint-Saens’s work
shows the tempting and undoing of Samson
by Delilah; she being impelled thereto, not
only by racial sentiment, but by reason of
the fact that Samson had spurned her on a
previous occasion. It ends with the des-
truction by Samson of the Temple of Dagon
and its Philistine worshippers. A dramatic
and effective picture.
* * * *
The music is familiar to many Sydneyites
(Georgina Delmar, Andrew Black and
Walter Whyte rendered it in the Town Hall
less than a year ago), but the present inter-
pretation amounts to a revelation. The
mezzo-soprano star is an actress as well as
a consummate vocal artist. Zeni has a ring-
ing tenor of mighty power and volume.
Kaufmann, a bass who plays Abimelech, and
Scandiani (the High Priest) are excellent;
and the stage settings are superb. It is con-
ceivable that this opera might be as per-
fectly produced in London or Paris, but it
is impossible that it should be more skilfully
cast or that the chorus work should be liner
anywhere.
JULES
GRANT,
W. ANDER-
SON’S
MANAGER,
WHO
JOINS
BERT
BAILEY
IN A NEW
THEATRICAL
CO.— BAILEY,
LTD.
Puccini gets a bold grip of the story that
stamps through “La Bolieme.” The jovial
quartet of Bohemians who warm their blue
fingers—in an ecstatic burst of song—by the
flames from Rodolfo’s Great Tragedy on the
hearth, are still skipping off to" the pawn-
shop in Act IV. Melba, as Mimi, fails to re-
peat the histrionic sensation of her first ap-
pearance as Violetta in “Traviata.” On the
dramatic side she is less convincing than
Bassich —who created the part of Mimi in
Sydney in 1901 —but Bassich, as a singer,
was a mile or two below Melba. The flaw-
less vocal art of Australia’s greatest song-
bird cast a new glamor over Puccini’s opera
on Saturday night, and there was great joy
when tenor McCormack, as Rodolfo, poured
his love-song into the moonlight with Mimi-
Melba, who couldn’t go home just then, be-
cause she’d lost her door-key, and wanted to
scratch for it on Rodolfo’s attic floor. All
the beauty of the Skylark’s perfect voice is
hung out at the sign of “La Bolibme.”
McCormack gets greater opportunities as an
actor here than in “Traviata”; and the
histrionic craft of Scandiani, harnessed to
his delightful voice, made Marcello one of
the prize snatchers in Puccini’s melodious
opera. Dammacco and Cristiani deserve a
bouquet for their determination to sing in
the act of packing up an overcoat for the
pawnshop. The tiny Axarine breaks into
“La Boh&me” in the Latin Quarter as
Musetta —Act 11. A slip of a girl, Axarine
has most of her troubles before her, if she
means to toil up the prickly path or operatic
fame. She is a graceful little creature with
a few bird-like notes in her soprano pipe,
but there seems to be only one good reason
for calling her the “Russian Patti’ - —all
the other Pattis must be doing time in
Siberia. Musical-director Angelini, and
deputy-conductor Sacerdote were hauled into
the public eye by Melba-Mimi, who left her
death-bed at the end of the fourth act to take
several tons of appiause.
ifc ifc
“The Witness for the Defence” has en-
tered on its last week at Sydney Criterion.
All those who have not yet been to it, and
who admire to see a sound play superbly
acted, are hereby counselled to take heed of
the above, and act accordingly.
** m %
“The Waltz Dream,” with Miss Young,
Miss Olive Godwin, Reginald Roberts and
a ravishing band of choristers, continues to
pervade Sydney Royal. It will go on per-
vading till further notice.
•*- *
The new piece at the Adelphi, “The Angel
of His Dreams,” is different from most
bellowdramas. The hero usually winds up
by marrying the heroine, but in this case he
marries the villainess, and doesn’t lock her
out when she comes home drunk. There is a
moral, of course—most melodramas have
morals—and it seems to be “The wages of
being good is lead” ; for a good young man in
the second act is shot by his wife, because he
didn’t steal some money. There is also a
change from the usual weapons of warfare;
and kitchen chairs and brandy bottles make
a refreshing variation upon noisy revolvers.
The story is of a woman—bad, naturally—
who came between a parson and his sweet-
heart, and, as aforesaid, shot her husband,
married the parson, and took to drink. The
parson is arrested for the murder. To shield
himself the murdered man’s father kills the
parson’s wife; but she gets in first with a
confession, and tells that it was the dead
man’s father who stole the money, and the
villain is arrested. There is the usual
sprinkling of funny people. Cecil Manner-
ing makes a good parson as the Rev. Chris
Esdaile, but puts up with too much from his
wife. Major Ferrars, the villain (C. R.
Stanford) ; R. W. Riley, as Roy, his son,
who was shot; and Sam Tippett (J. R.
Howard) are the chief male characters. Ada
Guildford (Hilda, the parson’s wife), Adele
Kelly (Milly, who wanted to marry the par-
son ). and Lilian Wiseman (Bessie, whose
job in life is to wear an apron and give
back-answers) are prominent among the
ladies.
*• * m *
“My dear man, don’t you know that King-
Henry the Eighth has been dead for hun-
dreds and hundreds of years ?” “Good Lord !
Has he? How the time does fly! I didn't
even know he. was ill.” The programme
asserts that eight calendars have become
waste paper since Clark and Hamilton were
last at Sydney Tivoli. No turn quite so re-
freshing has turned up in the interval, and
Memory, after a hurried glance over the
shelves of the Past, says: “No, we have only
received one sample of those goods.” Mr.
Clark (or Hamilton) fools naturally with-
out effort, and the decorative Miss Hamilton
(or Clark) acts up to him in a winsomely
demure way. A lot of the evergreen humor
of the original turn has been retained. The
male of the pair still stops in the middle of
a patter song to wearily damn his dropping
eyeglass, and plays both sides of a slice of
bread carefully on the piano. It is all non-
sense served up gaily. Plarry Allister, the
other newcomer, is a serious character im-
personator whose portraits are just limelight
waxworks. He works rapidly, and is most
successful with the celebrities we know only
by portraits. His. George Reid is recognis-
able; but his Deakin w-ould be cut by a heap
ot Australians. McLallen and Carson, on
skates, Dapper Louie Tracy, comedian Fred
Bluett,, and Clarke, and Mostol. the patter
pair with the electric feet, make up the rest
of the bill.
* * * *
Mill Sullivan, a dialect comedian from
Lancashire,, constitutes the week’s new goods
at the - National Amphitheatre. Lancashire
appears to be the region where jokes die
last; anyhow, every humorist from that
county, in the writer’s recollection, has been
a species of human chestnut tree. William
is no exception to the rule. However, he
unloads his ancient humor in a sprightly
and taking fashion. Eva Mudge, the quick-
change marvel, will flit shortly; but Jordan
and Harvey (Israelites) and Garrison (the
owner of the Roman Maids) are still going
strong.
** * *
The Bulletin came away from the
Y.M.C.A. Hall in Sydney, the other night,
profoundly discouraged. It had been listen-
ing to one of C. Wragge’s interesting lec-
tures concerning the flight of a sole, or per-
haps it was soul, and all went well until the
announcement was made that there is no
death, and that after we finish up on this
plane we are merely transferred to another
to get work again. So if the Inclement is
right, there is no escape through all Eter-
nity from Calamity Wade, Bro. Worrall,
Jokook, Fitzparrot, Jack Wren, Phidson, P.
Moses, and similar people whose existence
up till now had made The Bulletin’s
meteorological editor ready to pass in his
alley without protest. But the Inclement’s
remarks put a different complexion on
things, and unless this paper can learn from
him that the above-mentioned are to be
marooned on a plane of their own, it refuses
to have anything to do with the new arrange-
ment.
During the past few evenings, “Lorna
Doone” has been brightening up Spencer's
picture at the Lyceum. This adaptation of
Blackmore’s novel has been done very well
indeed. Just at present, the noble red In-
dian is all over the screen ; for, besides “The
Last of the Mohicans,” there is “Fighting
Blood,” another of the apparently intermix
able yet unceasingly popular series of “fron-
tier” thrills.
“ The French Spy," at
Melbourne King s. —
Spurned. Walter Baker
as Captain Vivian
Somers.
Type of Bulgarian
warrior in “ The
Chocolate Soldier"
at Melbourne Royal.
West’s are back at their old Sydney
home, the Glaciarium. The big item there
is “The Circus Girl,” or “All for the Man I
Love,” played by some of the best French
actresses. For the next week is mentioned
“In the Grip of Alcohol,” a moral play by
the Bathe Co., with the usual dash of scenic,
dramatic and comic films. The “Grip” is
running this week at West’s Building (Mel-
bourne).
** * *
For another week H. B. Irving, at Her
Majesty’s (Melb.), will present the Melan-
choly Dane as a more amiable egotist than
was expected, and the question as to whether
Gertrude's long-winded son was madder than
he thought himself, or less balmy than his
friends thought him, will receive undue at-
tention in letters to the daily press. The
management hungers and thirsts for intel-
lectual discussion on the point. Probably
the shade of England’s classic dramatist is
wondering what somebody will say next. A
revival of “Hamlet” seems bound to agitate
all Shakspearian students save the irrever-
ent few who reckon that the Bard dashed off
his immortal creations in commercial haste,
regardless of posterity and its admiration
societies. The present commentator, who —
Himself when wmng did eagerly frequent
Doctor and Crank, and heard great argu-
ment
About it and about; but evermore
Came out by the same door where in lie
went
inclines personally to the theory that Shak.
ought to have intended Hamlet to be mad,
seeing that the wmrling wordster speaks of
the Great Beyond as a country whence no
traveller returns, although his deceased par-
ent has just given him an object lesson to
the contrary No matter. On the 23rd “The
Lyons Mail” ’mil be staged.
** * *
“The Chocolate Soldier” is still adding to
its reputation at Melbourne Royal, where
its rivers and creeks of melody will flow till
further orders.
*■ * *
“The Speckled Band” goes on playing at
the Princess’s. Unhappily, the Band’s reper-
toire is. limited to one tune, Gaston Mer-
vale_ being the Conductor. Disguised as a
medical scientist of the deepest dye, Gaston
waves his arms mriously, whilst a certain
strain of melodrama is repeated again and
again. His shapely stepdaughter (Miss Dix)
in the clingsome gown, persists in trembling
in his hated presence for two long years, al-
though she has a private income, and might
go into board and residence elsewhere. The
incredible Doctor’s housekeeper (Miss
Vaugnan), who steadfastly loves him for his
murderous habits and horrible grimaces,
hangs on to the hope of marrying him when
his surviving stepdaughter has followed her
sister and mother to Eternity. The village
grocer patiently nurses his suspicions, and
Dr. Watson keeps on believing that some-
thing is wrong. The preposterous mystery
remains in a state of suspense waiting for
Sherlock Holmes to happen. And the whole
burden of the performance—the sole cause of
his employing an educated adder to wriggle
down a bedroom bell-rope, and bite ladies as
they lie asleep—is the raving doctor’s sordid
desire to inherit his victims’ private means.
All things considered, this degenerate Sousa
deserves to be slain by his own Speckled
Band. The reptile, chivvied from its fatal
bell-rope. by the providential Sherlock, bites
the waving hand that fed it, and leaves the
housekeeper without a hope of wedded bliss.


HUNTER STREET HOWES
WHERE THE
90/-SAC SUIT
COSTS YOU
85(6
FOR
CASH.
SAC SUITS from 4 to
5 Guineas.
LADIES’ COSTUMES
from 6 Guineas.
1111]
m.
Only Address: CORNER GEORGE and HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
MEDICAL MEN
RECOMMEND...
WOLFES
SCHNAPPS.
Next Saturday week Australian drama
will get a look in at the Princess’s. George
marlow, Ltd., has undertaken to present
“The Lady of the Pluckup” to a world that
wants to meet her. “The Lady” is Randolph
Bedford’s literary offspring, and her appear-
ance on the posters indicates an artistic tem-
perament.
** * *
Melbourne’s Repertory Theatre reopens
for its second season on Monday, 25th. Gre-
gan McMahon has got three plays in rehear-
sal —“Candida.” "The Fountain” and “The
Voysey Inheritance,” and two performances
of each will be given.
** * *
At the King’s there are only two more
nights of “The French Spy” and the present
co. On Saturday comes a one-time new and
original drama of domestic interest entitled
“Struck Oil.” In this, Maggie Moore will
make her latest reappearance as Miss Stofel,
supported by H. R. Roberts and a number of
more or less important comedians.
** * *
The Binns Vagabonds, who are musical,
and Alcide Capitaine, whose gymnastics are
sweet displays of female form divine, came
to strengthen the bill at the Opera House
last Saturday. Also, Sydney Bach returned
after a short absence. Several other people
are proceeding as before, but the Spissell-
macks, or McSpissells, are closing their
panto, to-night (Thursday).
Dolores, having added a Saturday matinee
to her farewell appearances at Melbourne
Town Hall, has departed for an uncertain
period. The lady of the dimples is not off
to Europe immediately. She has to sing in
some of the Victorian towns, and re-arouse
the drowsy enthusiasm of Tasmania ere she
quits these latitudes But Saturday’s, was her
good-bye recital in Melbourne, and when she
had sung “Home, Sweet Home” with just
enough of special reference-to-the-occasion
in her voice, the multitude sighed like a fur-
nace. Dolores is Queen of Arts in descrip-
tive warbling. She never loses charm for her
audience, as another fine singer would do
under equally exacting conditions. Her un-
affected winsomeness holds good all the time
because it never descends to bewitchery.
"THE CHOCOLATE SOLDIE," AT
MELBOURNE ROYAL.
Frank Wilson as Massakroff, Captain in the
Bulgarian Army.
In Adelaide, the King’s is making a vig-
orous snow with variety turns new to Aus-
tralia. One is Haydee’s marionettes, an old-
fashioned performance revived. The imita-
tion of Chung Ling Soo conjuring is remark-
able. Other items include Maude Mortimer,
with splendid costumes, a sense of humor
and a grand-opera voice; and Smite and
Smote, French acrobats, whose burlesque
wrestling match is a killing turn. The Tivoli
scores heavily with the cannon-ball play of
Francis and Alfred, Lamberti’s mixed music
and acting as various players and composers
of note, and Alexander Prince’s concertina
work. “The Whip,” at the Royal, is start-
ing that second week which in Adelaide is
the sure mark of success. It is the regular
Drury Lane type, obvious melodrama, but
of the best class, aim built round and de-
pending on several big stage effects. There
is an absence of higb-falutin’, the villain in
particular being almost real. The heroine’s
stagey proposal to act as jockey in a big race
is promptly frowned upon, and the comic
relief in the Chamber of Horrors’ scene
merges with great skill into the serious in-
terest of the" play. Wondergraph and the
Empire have both been starring “Enoch
Arden” (How do these things happen?) ;
West’s have made a feature of “The Circus
Girl”; Paris pictures at the old rink have
got well into their stride; and the Yitoscope
has got uack to the Victoria Hall after being-
elbowed out for a week or two, The subur-
ban halls are mostly full of films, too.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“0.K.”: You have it from “Stargazer” that news-
papers “here, there and everywhere” have credited
“The Chocolate Soldier” with “retaining the wit
and vivacity of Shaw.” Surely not. The plot of
“Arms and the Man” is roughly caricatured or tra-
vestied, and the opera is sufficiently bright to be
amusing. Nobody that I know of has credited it
with Shaw’s wit and vivacity. “Arms and the
Man” is for the educated minority, not for the
public that wants comic opera. Nor is “The Choco-
late Soldier,” being only an English translation of a
broad German travesty of Shaw’s witty satire, quite
meaningless enough for the average comic-opera
patron. It ought to be rather more simply ridicu-
lous, seeing that it couldn’t possibly have been made
so simply and gayly cynical and funny as a Gilbert-
Sullivan opera. Shaw didn’t intend his comedy to
be travestied for the musical stage. “The Chocolate
Soldier” couldn’t have prospered on a fidelity to
Shaw’s wit and vivacity, which have very little com-
mercial value on the stage. Why, in the name of
business principles, should the opera be expected to
breathe the literary, elfin spirit of “Arms and the
Man” ?
Lamberti, the good musician and better impersona-
tor, who has been showing at the Sydney Tivoli, is
an Englishman (proper name Lambert), who has
had what the classics call “a chequered career.” A
member of a big shipping family, he helped to
manage the first line of steamers that ran up the
Manchester Ship Canal, but as there wasn’t more
salary than he could spend, he resigned. Migrating
to Canada on spec., he got right up against tough
luck. “There was a time in Winnipeg,” he said the
other night, “when I was working about 15 hours
out of the 24—8 a.m. till 5 p.m., selling tickets for
the Canadian-Pacific Railway Co. ; from 6 p.m. to
8 p.m. acting as a head waiter; from 8.15 p.m. till
11 p.m., conductor of the Opera House orchestra —and
even then I couldn’t scratch together enough to get
clear of the town! That was before the boom. I
eventually raised 500dols. by composing a comic
opera named “Chon,” and producing it with ama-
teurs. I tried my hand at most things in Canada,
from gold mining to cattle punching. With my
500dols. I got to New York, and there things
brightened. I got a start as musical director of two
or three cos., and gradually worked on to the stage.
Sixteen years after leaving England I returned as
the ‘star’ at the Hippodrome. Then, being satisfied
that I had proved I could do better than collect a
few pounds a week in the shipping house, I wrote to
my relations. Coming back to Australia? Sure!”
A Melbourne father, appealing to H. B. Irving,
said: “Another reason why 1 think my son’s natural
inclination is for acting—he detests getting up
early.”
This paper referred to Mrs. Korolewicz-Wayda,
the delightful soprano of the Grand Opera Company,
as a Russian. It has been informed, more in
sorrow than in anger, that she is a Pole. She
scorns the insanitary and melodramatic race of
Nicholas 11., and those who accuse her of belonging
to it in future will do so at their own risk.
Thomas Kingston, whose death was reported last
week, was a son of the house of Shipwright, the
famous Piccadilly Circus (London) barber folk.
He was educated at a Benedictine monastery in
Kent, and at one time intended to become a priest.
The habit of religion stuck to him to the last.
When he was in Sydney the other day, playing in
“The Girl from the Golden West,” etc., he regularly
turned up at early mass at the Cathedral —-an un-
usual whim in a mime. His wife is Adeline de
Lara, the pianist.
“Singemoine” : Watching Melba expire as Mimi, in
“La BohSme,” last week, the shrieking discrepancy
between her robust appearance and the wasting com-
plaint she was supposed to be dying from, irritated
me, as it did when I saw Amy Castles, Bel Sorel and
other well-nourished artists pass over in this rSle
What is wrong with altering the libretto of Puccini’s
opera, so as to provide Mimi with a complaint more
or less in keeping with the immemorial prima
donna’s figure? For example, dropsy...l cast the
hint at the feet of grand opera for what it is
worth.
J. C. Williamson, Ltd., has been for some months
past preparing for the production, at Her Majesty’s
(Sydnev) of “Ben Hur,” on. a scale of magnificence
unequalled by the great settings of the piece which
went up in smoke when the previous Majesty’s was
burned some years ago. The cast will be made
up from amongst the various Williamson com-
panies, and the great chariot race will start im-
mediately after the close of the Melba opera season.
There is money in producing popular plays on
the cinematograph screen —over £5OOO was cleared
by C. Spencer out of “The Fatal Wedding”—and
the scramble for the transient lucre shows no sign
of slackening lately. At the present time Wests’,
L>td., are photographing a play; Roy Redgrave and
“Jimmy” McMahon are posing “The Christian” in
front of the machine ; and George Musgrove is bring-
ing “Sweet Nell, of Old Drury” to Sydney with a
similar object.
The old earliest - resident - first - discoverer-prime-
mover quarrel now blazes between Marshall-Hall and
W. A. Laver, as to which was the Father of the Mel-
bourne University Conservatorium of Music ? Most of
the writing comes from Laver, for Marshall-Hall
was the comet of the business, and need not polish
his shine. But The Bulletin, being interested in
all such disputes, is anxious to get to Heaven, in
order to interview the Disappointed Old Bloke who,
living many streets back of the Throne, claims to have
been the "original creator of the heavens and the
earth.
“Theorbo”: The Armes Beaumont testimonial is
making progress, but will be the better for another
fillip. It has not been stated here that Beaumont
made his first operatic appearance as Thaddeus,
in “The Bohemian Girl,” in Sydney. liis voice
first came under notice when he was a choir
boy at St. Peter’s, Melbourne. He worked
at that time as a clerk at Throckmorton’s,
on the wharf. (Mrs. Throckmorton was the leader
of Society, preceding Mrs. Malleson.) Beaumont
had reached some degree of public notice when the
Musical Union, a rival to the Philharmonic, gave
“The Messiah” at Christmas. Squires was to have
sung the tenor, but had a cold or something. The
manager came forward with: “Ladies and Gentle-
mell) —We have with us Mr. Edward Armes Beau-
mont, the young Australian Sims Reeves. He has
kindly consented to sing the tenor.” Beaumont de-
clares that this was the first notification he got.
Nevertheless, he complied. Next day he was famous.
He accepted an engagement from R. S. Smythe, to
travel with Poussard, the violinist; Douay, the
’cellist; and Miss Amelia Bailey (Mrs. Smythe), the
soprano. After returning from Maoriland, he was
laid up with a sprained knee. Fred Lyster came to
him with the music of Thaddeus, and said: “Here s
the thing, my boy. Study this while you are on
your back.” And he did ; and that is how he came
to appear in Sydney.
“Groper”: “Martin Luther” (B. 20/7/’ll) either
knows little about the Fisk Jubilee Singers, or else
he holds back what he does know. They started
out to make up (say) £5OOO, thinking they had a
gigantic job in front, but before they had got
through the English provinces they had raised that
£5OOO and another lot on top of it, and still had
nearly half the tour to do. Having raised for the
’Varsity all that was needed and more, they an-
nounced that they would return and do a bit for
themselves. There was no running under false pre-
tences with them, and their work was so fine that
they deserved every shilling they scooped.
“The Arcadians” has at last got itself superan-
nuated at the Shaftesbury Theatre, London. It had
reached the ripe old age of 2| years.
“Harrison O.”: I made lately a few well-chosen
remarks regarding the horrible habit of wedging
unnecessary acts into plays, and now a further lllus-
tration is supplied by “The Witness for the De-
fence.” In the first act, a wife who is bullied and
beaten, injects a small but adequate quantity of
lead into her husband’s carcase. In the interval we
go outside and see about the usual dog, _ and wonder
what will happen in the next act. Nothing happens,
except that a young man who is in love with the
lady tells his uncle as many of the circumstances
of the ease as he is acquainted with. We carry out
some further negotiations in regard to the quadru-
ped, and return for the third act. In this the lady
herself supplies a complete history of the whole
affair to the lawyer, whose evidence secured her
acquittal on the capital charge. The Gent. One
announces that she must unfold the _ narrative to her
voung man, and to the doing of this the fourth act
is devoted. All through the play the characters
keep on telling one another things they al-
ready know, or things the audience already knows.
There is some dramatic interest in the last act, since
the question arises: Will the lady be forgiven by her
adorer? But the two middle acts are absolutely
unnecessary, and consequently extremely dreary.
“SAVSONE E DALILA" AT HER
MAJESTY’S, SYDNEY.
The scissors
of Damocles.
—Sansone
( signor Zeni)
being hired
from the
straight
path. His
friend
the old
Hebrew
(Signor Dammacco) scents the danger of a haircut.
“C Ockney” : Still they come, the actor-dramatists.
(Come to think of it, we should be badly off for.plays
without them.) The latest is A. E. W. Mason, with his
“Witness for the Defence.” As a mummer the future
novelist, playwright and M.P. studied stagecraft
with F R. Benson’s Sliakspearian troupe, and for a
while with Edward Compton’s Old Comedy Co. (Ben-
son and Compton, by the way, are still travelling
the English provinces with the same goods—Compton
has been at it for 30 years!) Mason turned his
early experience to good account; Shakspeare and old
comedy should not be a bad diet for _ the embryo
playwright. His first success as a novelist was, nat-
urally enough, a “costume” drama in book form -
“The Courtship of Morrice Buckler.” Since then he
has published over a dozen novels, good, bad and
indifferent, in all of which, however, the plot, the
construction and the dramatic grip betray the hand
of the writer for the stage. It is something of a coin-
cidence that the two Irvings (Ethel and “H. 8.”)
were playing in Mason plays at the same time re-
cently in London, Ethel in her present Australian
production, and “H. 8.” in “Princess Clementina.”
Robert Grieg, an Australian, who did some sound
character-acting with the dismantled Hugh Ward
Co has joined Allan Hamilton’s “Beauty and the
Barge” crowd. As one result of the theatrical com-
bine the Australian will seemingly have to depend
for a shop almost entirely on either Hamilton, Plim-
mer and Denniston, or Bilanderson. The shows
controlled by these people have lapped up a dozen
capable artists of local extraction during the past
month.
“0.K.” : Astonishing to find Melbourne Argus say-
ing of Melba in “Traviata” that “there was curi-
osity as to her powers as an actress, as was to be
expected She portrayed the character with a
poignancy that few were prepared for.” Now, curi-
osity followed by great surprise implies a previous
ignorance of what was to be expected; yet Melba
appeared as Camille at Melbourne Princess’s nine
years ago. Three acts of “Traviata” were played
three times, Mrs. Slapoffski, Lempriere Pringle,
Louis Arens, Bensua(le and Charles Rose being the
other principals. During the same short season
Melba sang twice in two acts of “Faust” (in
French), one act of “Rigoletto,” and the Mad Scene
from "Lucia.” So her powers as an actress are no
new revelation to the Commonwealth ; and the mana-
gerial credit for the first revelation is due to George
Musgrove.
“Harrison 0” : Most quaint has been the evolution
of Sherlock Holmes. Conan Doyle, an Englishman,
depicted him as a calm, frozen person—a type much
admired by Bull, who is himself one of the most
jumpy of blokes. When a play was constructed
around S. Holmes, the reasoning machine, all brain
and no heart, slithered into love, and developed into
a sentimental humbug. Now, in “The Speckled
Band,” we meet a cove whom we feel convinced
would introduce himself as Sherlock S. Holmes, of
N’Yark City, U.S.A. —a good-natured Yankee humor-
ist, who appears more anxious to score cheap verbal
victories over his opponents than to have those
opponents quodded.
“8.J.H.0.”: Gregan McMahon will make his second
appeal to the lovers of the literary drama towards
the end of this month. On the 25th, and again
three nights later, Shaw’s “Candida” will tell her
reverend husband what every woman thinks she
knows; on October 2 the Repertory people will do
their best with Calderon’s sociological comedy, “The
Fountain” ; and for two nights during the following
week performances of Granville Barker’s “The Voy-
sey Inheritance” will be given. McMahon’s last
season was well worth while, though it is doubtful
whether among his band of mummeresses was one
capable of doing justice to Candida. Still, we may
hope for the best, and rest assured that the worst
won’t be awful.
“C. Ockney”: If “0.K.” (B. 24/8/’ll) thinks
that “Snell,” by simply making a statement and
inviting me to contradict it, “scores a point,” he is
welcome to his opinion. For his otherwise rational
contribution to the mimicry discussion, I, personally,
am grateful—he, evidently speaking with knowledge,
bears out everything I have had to say on the sub-
ject. “0.K.” has but to turn to my first “Poverty
Point” par. (B. 22/6/’ll), and he will find these
words: “This ‘profitable industry’ has, of course,
been going on for more years than I care to count.
...Every ‘fat’ part that has scored a big hit in
London has to be copied in every particular by the
mummer who is selected to play it in Australia.
The managements insist upon it.” Now, “0.K.”
substantiates all this by actually citing the case of
a prominent actor-manager (Frank Thornton), who,
when he played Dick Phenyl in “Sweet Lavender,”
gave “a close imitation of the voice and mannerr
isms” of Edward Terry, the original creator (Thorn-
ton, by the way, is not the only manager who has
been caught at it!). If, then, managers insist upon
it, and, when they act, practise slavish imitation,
how in the name of common-sense can the unfortu-
nate mummer (wljo, unless he be quite mad, looks
after his bread and butter first thing) be blamed?
Yet “Snell” (so he says) will continue to throw
bricks at him. Thornton copied Terry because he
evidently thought it the best thing to do if he
wanted to make good ; and, at the risk of once
again being accused of “defending the game,” I
submit he did right. Pinero, who knew Terry’s
mannerisms and idiosyncrasies as an actor (which
were most marked) to a nicety (having indeed pre-
viously exploited them in two comedies, “The
Rocket” and “In Chancerv”), built Dick Phenyl to
fit Edward Terry and nobody else. Terry scored an
enormous hit in the part and Thornton could not
help but copy him if he wanted to reproduce his
success. Ought he (Thornton) to have had one of
“Snell’s” bricks when he brought out the play to
Australia? Another question. When mummers imi-
tate, why should they thereupon be charged
with inability to do original work? “0.K.”
blames and belittles Leslie Holland for copy-
ing George Grossmitli, jun., in a musical
nnmedv part, yet, a“ a nressman, “0.K.”
had probablv seen Holland only a few months
before playing a straight light-comedy role
in “The Brass Bottle.” Is the mummer not entitled
to anv commendation for the different characterisa-
tions?' Verily, the actor-man might exclaim with
Dick Phenyl: “Blame, blame, blame! But praise
—oh, dear no!” And, in this connection, let it not
be forgotten that Grossmith, in addition to being
one of the leading comedians of the Gaiety, is in
manv plays there his own author. Grossmith, the
author, might well be pardoned if he thought that
Grossmith’s performance, of what has come to be
described as a “Grossmith part,” should be played in
the Grossmith manner, and in no other way.
The, movement for building a “Marshall-Hall
Conservatorium of Music” in Melbourne commands
sympathy on Marshall-Hall’s account only. He
started his conservatorium in a hired building, what
time he was the paid Professor of Music at the
University, and for love, not money, he advanced
the cause of Art, and put himself with a full
orchestra at its head. When he had to retire from
the University chair, and leave the salary to an-
other and a milder Professor, Hall fell practically
into the hands of a nretentious syndicate of patrons,
who “ran” him as the elders of a small religious '
sect run their parson. These appalling financiers of
the Cause seem to have alienated the working
musicians who formerly stood by Marshall-Hall in
his orchestral concert enterprise. The workers have
now established a Musicians’ Union and a Vic. Pro-
fessional Orchestra whose concerts get no support
from the pretentious patrons of Art. In fact, the
gilded push seems bent on “queering the pitch of
the V.P.O. As the matter now stands, the gilded
ones are the nobles who maintain the monarchy,
whilst the members of the Musical Union are rebels
ag’in the Government. Marshall-Hall himself may
have all the personal qualities to make a good in-
stitutional monarch, but he is ruled by a bumptious
bureaucracy which might dethrone him at any
time, and replace him with somebody who would
have no claim to sympathy whatever. If Melbourne
is to have a permanent conservatorium of music,
with plentv of room for expansion, it should surely
be provided by the local Government, and its man-
agement should be in perfect harmony with the
local musical trades union.
A LUST FOR FACTS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Sydney Protestant Defence Association and its Ir-
relevant H. Gainford strongly object to the with-
drawal of the biograph pictures of Sextus the Fifth.
According to the morning paper, “The Council fur-
ther expresses both its surprise and indignation at the
West’s Picture Company yielding to Papal clerical
pressure by withdrawing the film entitled Sextus \ ~
thus depriving the Australian public of seeing that
historical picture. This Council still further pro-
tests against the fact that the overwhelming majority
—over three-fourths of the people—are denied a pic-
ture because of the Papal ecclesiastical threat.” The
Irrelevant Gainford later said that “the fact that the
Catholics resent the picture is one of the greatest
evidences that it is historically true.”
“We hate the Papacy,
We scorn the Vatican;
The blessed Jasper Sea
’S for no It-al-ian !
We’d give the Cartherlicks the rope—
The awful scoundrels stole our Pope ! !
“Our Pope is truly bad —
Borgia and Deeming mixed—
That’s why we feel so mad !
A cleanly Pius Sixt
Is naught to us but opium dope.
The Pope we want’s an awful Pope!
“That it’s historical
’S a virtue in our eyes,
The Papists show their mal-
A-fides by their cries.
We know him well from heel to cope,
His character’s made him our Pope!
“No Francis of the birds,
No Camaldoli saint,
No priest of quiet words,
Nor free from worldly taint
We want —our sure and certain hope
Is on a really wicked Pope! ”
VICTORIA.
MARTIN LUTHER.
THE GALL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
H. B. Irving, talking, by special request, to the
boys of Melbourne Church of England Grammar
School, earnestly advised the lads not to think of
entering the theatrical profession, unless they had
“a clear and distinct call.”
So, little boy, do not aspire
To set the River Thames a-fire
As Hamlet, that funereal Dane,
Unless your call’s so clear and plain
You’ll not confound
It with the milkman’s, on his round.
Don’t lie awake for fear you’ll lose
The whispered summons of the Muse.
Her voice is stirring as a bell.
Some actors here have heard it well,
Though many swear
No sound disturbed the drowsy air.
The call is clear. Alas! of late
The hearer can’t discriminate.
He’s called upon the stage he knows,
And forth to play Othello goes,
When it but means
He’s called to meekly move the scenes,
VICTORIA.
D.


fhg
Men’s “Orient” Lounge Suits
READY TO WEAR.
AS ILLUSTRATION
27/6.
Our “Orient” Two Garment Suits are constructed to give true
Summer Comfort. The materials are light weight, consisting of Tennis
Suitings and Summer Flannels. To he had in Medium Grey Fancy
Stripes; Light Grey, with Black and White Stripes; Navy Blue, with
White Stripes; Grey Mixture, with Fancy Stripes; Plain, Medium and
Dark Grey. The materials are guaranteed unshrinkable —they are soap
and water shrunk, and if washed in hot soapy water will not shrink
again. Do not boil them. The Suit includes Lounge Jacket and
Trousers (TJnlined), with patch pockets, movable buttons, with or with-
out vent at back. As knock-about Suits; for Tennis; for Holiday or
Country Wear, you cannot surpass them—and they are finished in every
detail with minutest care. In all sizes .. . • • • • • .. 27/6
Distant Residents pay exactly the price quoted—which is the City
price—there being no need to enclose cost of freight, as
We l’ay Carriage on all Goods except Furniture. Floor Covering,
Kitchen and Hardware to any part of the Commonwealth. Only on Toys
when ordered with other goods.
DAVID JONES, LTD.,
Opp. G.P.0.,
SYDNCY.
A Reliable Remedy.
Rexona is a reliable remedy for all eruptions and
irritations of the skin, Eczema, Pimples, Sores, Chil-
blains, Chapped Hands, Sciatica, Itching: or Bleeding
Piles, Cuts, Burns, Bruises, Scalds, Bad Legs, Stings
of Insects, and all kinds of inflammation. Rexona
is sold only in triangular pots at Is. 6d. and 3s.*
Messrs. David Jones, Ltd., have just published a
large illustrated catalogue of 260 pages, composed
almost entirely of illustrations representing the
latest and smartest attire for men, women and
children; besides which, hundreds of illustrations
are devoted to the reproduction of household
drapery, travelling requisites, furniture and furnish-
ings This book should prove particularly interest-
ing to residents of the country, as it brings them
into direct touch with the latest fashions, and sup-
plies them with the same facilities as city dwellers.
To those who apply, a copy will be mailed, post
free,*
A SYDNEY MOTHER’S EXPERIENCE.
“I reallv cannot let the opportunity pass without
telling about the good done my little son by usmg
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy,” says Mrs H.
of 29 Dowling Street, Camperdown, Sydney. t".
had a very severe cold. The doctor gave me medi-
cine for him, but it did him no good. I was. recom-
mended to try Chamberlain’s Cough Kerned , *nd
before a small bottle was half hmshed he was as
well as ever.*’*
SOCIETY
PENFOLD'S
WINES
“Mere Bloke” : One of Australia’s staunch-
est barriers against the subversive tenden-
cies of mob rule is, undoubtedly, the M.L.C.
The M.L.C. stands for all that this God-for-
saken country has of cultivated intelligence.
But the note of intellectual superiority may
be over-stressed, and G. J. Crooke, M.L.C.,
of Gippsland (Vic.), erred in this fashion
last week. His purpose was to express sym-
pathy with the Sale borough council in its
agitation for an improved railway service to
Rosedale. He wrote :
My experience is that whilst the present manage-
ment —or rather mismanagement—of the railway
continues, it is quite useless to ask for or anticioate
any improvement in our antiquated system. I have
already informed the Department of my opinion,
which is not confined to Gippsland, and which I
hope will soon grow strong enough to get a shift on.
Then we will get that to which we are entitled.
Under the existing Act, members have no right to
make any requests.
How stingingly the illiterate toiler is
taunted in his futile gropings after the
meaning of the above! He cannot parse it;
nor, indeed, can anyone else. Being the
literature of an Upper House, it is neces-
sarily Greek to the commoner and caviare
to the general.
From an Adelaide critic:—
Blamire Young has opened an exhibition of his
pictures at the Art Society’s new rooms, lent to
him for the purpose. Adelaide has hitherto known
him only by two paintings in the Art Gallery—
Chaucer and an apprentice, and a fat, broken-down
music-master; both are heavy, powerful, a kind of
glorified scene-painting. The surprise at finding
Blamire’s talent to be so various is correspondingly
great. This is hardly a “one-man” show at all.
One would say four men had been at work. He can
paint washerwomen in the old familiar style—one of
these was the first to acquire the Red Label of
honor ; or misty seashores, with graceful nudes half-
hidden in the mist; or fantastic figures (often in
crinolines) that somehow seem to match a G.K.
Chesterton fantasy; or clever brown studies, as in
the mining town of Walhalla, seen nestling in its
gully by night—one of the best things in the show.
He can give water and wharves in the manner of
Will Ashton, or he can dash in his scenery in the
right impressionist style, with heavy storm-clouds,
such as may rarely be seen in Nature. (Those
storm-clouds seem to be becoming a habit with him.)
His coloring is delightful, and his show is already
popular. The financial aspect of it is a different
question. Most of the money in S.A., these times,
belongs to the farmers, and their buying runs rather
to pianos, phonographs and motor-cars than to
paintings.
Two sober facts that have no earthly con-
nection with each other have been dragged
into close relationship by some insignificant
but ultra-“loyal” members of Melbourne’s
Board of Shirks. Fact 1 is that that cum-
bersome body was appointed to carry out and
maintain the city’s sewerage system, and to
keep it adequately supplied with water. It
does neither of these things well, but that is
by the way. Fact 2 is that the Coronation
of George, May’s husband, was accomplished
months ago, and is now almost forgotten.
The connecting link between the two is that
the Board has just waited on Governor-
General Denman and handed him an address
congratulating the aforesaid George on the
above-mentioned Coronation, which address
he, Denman, is desired to transmit. It will
probably be handed to George’s head flunkey
to be shied under the copper, but that is also
by the way. The address, which took some
months of one of the employees’ time, is in-
scribed (addresses are never written) on
ivory white vellum, and bears, besides some
grovellous remarks, the coats of arms of (1)
George, previously referred to; (2)the State
of Premier John Weary; (3) the Board or
Plank itself: and (4 to 25 inclusive) those
of the 22 municipalities composing the Plank.
It is a sweet memento of the dead past, and
must be soothing to those who pay the heavy
sewerage rates; but citizens who have to
drink muddy water and precious little of
that, and who occasionally get a worm out
of the tap. begin to understand how the
worms breed so freely.
AS IF HE COULD BE OTHERWISE.
“ Well, good-bye, old man. Be good!"
HIS WATERLOO.
BRIDE (Sotto voce): “ What's the matter , Gus?”
Professor Gustavus Mnemonics (the Memory King): “Derring—I haf der ring forgoat!”
“Harrison O.” : It is some time since as
much blither, bosh and bunkum has been
talked as in connection with the case of Hop
Boon Gooey, the Chow who brought his wife
out here on the distinct understanding that
she was to return in six months’ time, who
had the period extended, and who is now
dropping tears over the cauliflowers because
she is not to be allowed to remain here per-
manently in defiance of the law of the White
Man’s Land. A deputation of parsons and
other barrackers for a Piebald Australia
talked a lot of maudlin rot about separating
husband and wife, and “putting apart those
whom God has joined together,” and drew
touching word pictures of H. P. Gooey’s
grief at being separated from his spouse.
However, their appeal was robbed of a good
deal of its pathos when it was announced
that Gooey had been given permission 10
years ago to bring out a missus (either the
present one or another), and had kept on
thinking about the matter for over nine
years before taking any action. Under the
circumstances, the touching picture of the
Chinese Romeo almost crazy with grief at
being parted from his Juliet does not look
as convincing as it might be. He seems a
calm, unimpassioned sort of Romeo.
* * * *
“C.I1.”: The fact is reported that some
clergymen turned out and did hard labor
among the strike-breakers at Manchester
(England). Well, let us consider their case
more in sorrow than in anger. The poor
devil of a sky-pilot must keep solid with the
affluent classes, who have “livings” to dis-
pose of, though some of these should be
called “starvings.” In England and Wales
there are over 500 full-blown Anglican clerics
receiving less than £75 annually per sin-
shifter. These are not curates —the down-
trodden curate may get anything down to
ss. per week, and a dubious egg for break-
fast —but the genuine article. To-day the
Congregational Union in Britain is scraping
together a fund of £250,000, in the hope of
being able to fix a minimum wage of £l2O
per year for its preachers. More than one-
tenth of the Baptist ministers never climb
the giddy financial Alp of £75 a year, and
nearly half don’t attain to £l5O. The Welsh
Baptist preacher seldom reaches £lOO, and
often he languishes in the abyss of £5O or
even less. So the superabundant cleric
hangs humbly on to the tail of the rich,
which is often a suppressed tail and very
difficult to hang on to- —not because he has
much hope of getting more, but because he is
in great dread lest he should get even less.
* * * *
Brutal frankness of a N. S. Wales factory
inspector as set out in the department’s
annual report recently issued: —
Another case was that of a Chinese fruiterer who
employed two young Chinamen, who informed me
they were paid 7s. 6d. per week and their keep ;
also that they did not get any half-holiday. When
the proprietor came into the shop he told me they
were his partners. He could not produce any regis-
tration of his firm, or any deed of partnership.
Action was taken, the case was defended, and
although the defendant could not produce any docu-
ments to prove his statement, the magistrate dis-
missed the case.
Whaffor?
“The Undertaker” : It seems impossible for
public talkers —and a good many public
writers, too —to say that anybody is Dead.
In his House of Rep.’s maiden speech,
Frank Brennan referred to the “demise” of
Harry Beard, his predecessor in Batman,
and also remarked that G. B. Edwards, of
North Sydney, had “passed away.” Then this
deponent strayed into the Vic. Legislative
Assembly, where Norman Bayles, M.L.A.,
fought with the problem of how to indicate
that a man was dead, without saying so. The
dead man had “passed into the Unknown.”
and had “gone into another sphere” (he said
“better sphere” at first, but hastily cor-
rected himself), and had “departed from
among us.” What a pity that so few people
say that Dead is Dead, for there is no other
word. Two things—Life, Death; Death,
Life —as in Victor Daley’s poem. Why
boggle about it? But even a medical man
at an inquest will say flatulently, “Life was
extinct.” When I’m buried (or cremated, if
Randolph Bedford is Dictator by then), I’m
not going to be Deceased, or Departed or
Life-Extinguished. I’m going to be adver-
tised as DEAD I
RIOT.
CABBAGES ONE AND SIX EACH.
SCARCITY OF VEGETABLES IN MELBOURNE.
—Neaspaer headings.
“I feel reckless to-night. Let us have souite
thing really expensive .”
“ Well what do you say to having a small
cabbage between us?”
Vic. Caledonians, arguing eloquently for
the retention of the kilt as the uniform of
their particular regiment, assured Senator
Pearce that, on the score of cheapness, there
is much to be said, as the Scotch petticoat
will last 10 years. But, really, the chief vir-
tue of the kilt is that it doesn’t bag at the
knees. Also, it never seems to clamor for
patches at the back.
* * * *
During the visit of the King and Queen
to Ireland, most of the local papers, even the
Nationalist ones, always started George s
pronoun with a capital “II,” and did the
same for Mary. “The people,” said one elo-
quent publication, “notwithstanding politicB
misunderstandings, love Himself and Her-
self.” The habit of putting a tower in front
of the pronoun used to apply only to the
Deity, but times or printers have changed.
THE CRY THAT REACHED HIS VEST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
London, Friday.—George Reid, Commonwealth
High Commissioner, is inaugurating a scheme for
actively advertising Australian products in France,
Austria, Switzerland, and Belgium, in view of the
dear food” outcry.
He is arranging also for the insertion of many
illustrated articles in French newspapers, emphasis-
ing that boats with Australian meat shipments call
regularly at Marseilles.— Cable.
MEAT!
Gorge has flung aside his napkin, and is scrambling
' to his feet!
Now the waiters fly before him, dropping bottles,
corks and dishes,
And the floor is simply littered with the entrees,
joints and fishes ;
There’s a wrangle in the kitchen —there’s disorder in
the hall,
Where the porter with his whistle sounds the urgent
motor call;
For the banquet is deserted and the chef is quite
insane—
He is peppering a turkey with a new insectibane!
And a parched and spectral tripe-hound on the table
has a feed,
While he wonders what disaster has disturbed his
owner Greid;
To a bone of utter sweetness his sad countenance is
glued,
When his master flies to answer an appeal for cheaper
food.
FOOD!I
How could any man resist it who with banquets is
imbued ?
Now the sympathetic waistcoat with its job of mercy
hurries,
While the dry and mournful tripe-hound on the
table snarls and worries;
And no carrier of dishes rushes in on tender feet.
With his limp and grimy serviette to thrash him
from the treat;
They are crowded in the hall way—-they are jumping
on the pave,
As with crumbs upon his waistcoat, Gorge is start-
ing off to save
Ev’ry empty vest in Europe with a simple ad. and
neat;
That each liner’s freezing-chamber is chock-full of
frozen meat;
Over other urgent matters Gorge will banquet,
sleep and brood ;
But he tramoles on the waiters at the howl for
cheaper food.
GREID ! ! I
Pie Commissioner in London and a man all cooks
must heed !
Art and Science, Commerce, Letters on his splendid
doorstep lurking,
Sniff the heavy fumes of dinner and observe Sur-
gorge is working.
See the butler, like a high-priest in a well-estab-
lished shrine,
In a stately manner passing with his offerings of
wine,
None may stop the dinner-service when he’s in a
working mood,
Save, by yelling at the window, “Hey, Surgorge!
We’re short of food!”
Comes a croaking cry of horror and a rush of flat-
tened feet,
And Surgorge bursts through the waiters, and,
crumb-powdered, gains the street,
From the turkey, wme and truffles he comes charg-
ing down the hall,
When above old London’s champing he hears fellow-
waistcoats call.
N.S.W.
THE TOOTHPICK.
ROSE, BLUE AND GOLD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
VICTORIA.
Rose and blue and gold
Go to make my sweet!
Tender words her lips unfold,
Tender thoughts her eyes have told,
Oh, her lips are sweet!
Golden is her hair —
Golden like a crown —
And the glow of Youth is fair
On her cheek as roses rare.
Oh ! her little feet!
Rose and blue and gold
Go to make my sweet.
G.J.


ĝh
Keep your Table and
Household linen white
as snow by always
using Sunlight Soap.
directions round each tablet.
NO. 67. GUARANTEED UNDER THE
“ PURE FOOD ACT, 1908."
BY LEVER BROTHERS LIMITED,
SYDNEY, N.B.W. NO. 6T.
Hunyadii
Janos I
The Best Natural Aperient Water
for sluggish bowels. Brings relief
in the natural easy way. Speedy,
sure and gentle. Try a bottle
—and drink half a tumbler i
lon arising) before breakfast, for I
CONSTIPATION
Wild’s Hairdressing Rooms, 30 Upstairs,
Sydney Arcade, George and King Streets, Sydney, is
the proper place to go if you want the best of atten-
tion. Electric head and face massage done in the
latest American style. Hours of business: 8.30 to
6.30; Saturday close at 1 o’clock.*
1
i
IDEAL for SUMMER
THIS 2-PIECE SUIT.
We introduced these garments originally, and our specialised
styles of to-day are easily leaders. They are cool and. comfortable
to a degree, and yet have a dash and good cut that you d only
expect to find in much more costly garments.
For Summer wear nothing approaches them —they wash well
and do up like new!
This style we illustrate includes a fine range of Flannels—
mostly in Greys overrun with harmonising stripes. The coat is
single-breasted, cut with centre seam and vent with three buttons,
plain back and three pockets—the trousers plain, with no permanent
turn up.
We have a big range of graduated sizes, and can fit any figure.
Send us your chest, waist and inside leg measurement when ordering
by Post,' please.
25/-
Postage 1/-
Inter-Stale, 1/6.
PEAPES & CO., Ltd.,
“ Men’s
Outfitters,”
309-311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Thus “Conscript’s Mother” in S. M.
Herald last week, in protest against her
“15-year-old boy being taught to kill his
fellow-men” ‘. —
I have watched over him and tended him, and
now he has to turn out to this. To learn to fight
for what? We have nothing to fight for in this
country. What working man has?
Yet the poorest and most unpatriotic work-
ing-man has something to fight for; for in-
stance, the honor of his women folks. If
“Conscript’s Mother” really holds that in-
vasion’s only horror consists in the destruc-
tion of property, there is. something gravely
wrong either with her intelligence or her
morals. And the frequent statement that
the working man in Australia has nothing to
fight for is sheer folly, anyhow. The people
who make it haven’t the beginning of an
idea what immeasurable depths lie below
them, and how poor they can become before
they have nothing to fight for. “Conscript’s
Mother” may think she has struck bottom,
but it would probably take her years of
travel and invest'cation to even faintly
realise what bottom is.
IF THE MOUNTAIN WON’T GO TO
MAHOMET —
Surf-bathing as a counter attraction to church-
going was alluded to yesterday by the Rev. T.
Morgan, of the McNeil Memorial Church, Waverley.
...“I am sorry to say,” observed the reverend
gentleman, “that not more than 10 out of every 100
young people growing up to manhood and woman-
hood —I am speaking now of the Protestant popula-
tion—go into the churches. There are more people
on Bondi Beach on a Sunday morning, I think, than
in all the churches in the eastern suburbs. It is a
common thing to see men and women going out on
Sunday morning for pleasure, and taking all their
children with them. They are bringing their
children up in ungodliness.”— Sydney daily paper ,
Parson (popping up in the surf): “Dearly
beloved breth'ren, the Scripture moveih us
in sundry places,” etc., etc.
“Anthrop” : Australia has an interest in
the Congress of Races, that was sitting in
London when the last mail left. The func-
ti ig run by para doxical whites of Eng-
landj America ; Germany and France, with
a mere insignificant leaven of the blacks and
tans, browns, yellows and reds, on whose
behalf the congress battles. Mrs. Annie
Besant is its dominating figure, and, indeed,
the women seem to bulk larger than the
men j n fiercely calling on Australia, Arner-
ica> etC-; to te ar down their racial gates. The
Bible is freely quoted in support of misceg-
enation by these people. Apropos, the Bishop
f Brisbane, at the Church Congress in Perth
(W.A.), once referred to the text: “He
h ath made of one blood all the nations of
the th „ Dean St ephen, of Melbourne,
added: “And hath fixed the bounds of their
ho hits, tion ”
1
FORBIDDEN DELIGHTS.
“ What , you wear a hare in skirt?"
“ Yes. You see, Fred has driven me to it."
Fred? impossible!"
"If , true. lie absolutely forbids it"
A Passing Bloke comments: —
Dr. Billy Maloney’s young daughter burst into the
limelight the other day as an advocate of the Tele-
phone Girl. She opened the new Exchange in Mel-
bourne by reading a little speech of protest against
the overworking of switchboard operators. Scores
of her suffering sistern were at work around the Ex-
change hall at the time, and Miss Maloney suggested
that their employment was “injurious to the ner-
vous system.” With ingenuous emphasis she spoke
of herself as “being only a girl,” the tacit sugges-
tion being that girls are specially subject to switch-
board nervousness. Then why are any of them em-
ployed on a job which seemingly would be less in-
jurious, or not at all injurious, to young men?
Common-sense (which is not always arrogant stu-
pidity) has grown weary of the woes of women
workers in the P.M.G.’s department. If their sex
demands particular consideration for them, why are
they there at all? Either they are well fitted for
their job, or unfitted, and if they are fitted for it,
then the sex question is quite out of place in their
periodical Book of Lamentations. Anyhow, the com-
munity at large doesn’t ask for “weak women” to
be doing any sort of Government work which could
be performed by strong men with less injury to the
public health. In fact, the community at large is
apt to wonder whv so many women are having their
nerves racked in the P.M.G.’s department, the com-
munity being not fully aware of the fact that the
tendency of every modern Government is to provide
as much employment as possible for the womankind
of its old friend, Political Influence. #
Billjim, down for the Show, is mostly re-
garded as the natural diet of the city spielers,
but sometimes the boot adorns the other leg.
During Melbourne’s annual Cadge week one
of him, having spent half a day at Fleming-
ton, and bitten Weary Watt’s ear for a new
road or bridge or something, bethought him of
the familiar backblocks. He had lost or
hypothecated his return ticket, but that
didn’t worry him. Going into a bike shop
he expressed a desire to buy a reliable motor-
bike, but insisted on a trial. The shop-
keeper was agreeable, and handed him a
machine; also, he personally superintended
the trial on a faster jigger. They went out
along the Sydney-road, and were half-way
home again, when William reckoned his
machine was hardly swift enough. The
trusting bike-man exchanged vehicles, so
that he was on the slow contraption, and
Jimbill on the fast one. Then William-
james went away at such a pace that the
other lost sight of him —and has kept on
doing so ever since. But Billiam didu t
want to steal the machine; he only wanted
to get home. So a few days later the bike-
seller . got a note from a Mallee township,
telling him to call at Spencer-street station
for his weapon, which Bill had sent back
per passenger train at “collect” rates. It
cost Bs. 6d., and the tyres were wrecks, the
frame joints and spokes loose, and the engine
almost worn out, but the handles were all
right. # #
The most mysterious circumstance about
Melbourne’s latest murder case or disappear-
ance mystery, whichever it is, is the failure
of detective Macmanamanammy to rush to
the front. Day by day the public was re-
galed with accounts of the doings of those
wondrous sleuths, Murphy, O’Dynamite,
Mac Moses, Mac Patrick, Columbus Johnson
and the rest. But for some inscrutable rea-
son, the greatest and most unspellable gepius
of them all failed to heave up on the horizon.
“Locust” : Referring to a par. about “the
strenuous ‘Jimmie Pannikin’ ” (long may he
stren.!) having school-grounds planted with
fruit trees, it is interesting to know that
miles and miles of German country roads
are improved by rows of fruit trees. In
that country, however, there is a very highly
developed civic sentiment; and that fruit re-
mains unplucked until ripe. Remembering
my own schoolboy days, I should say that —
unless the Australboy has changed—those
trees of “Jimmie Pannikin’s” could be relied
upon to produce aches in wide concentric
circles. Still there is no reason why we
shouldn’t cultivate civic sentiment along
with fruit trees. I remember, indeed, the
time when it would have been thought ab-
surd to grow flowers unprotected in un-
fenced Australian parks.
Some of the sickest sailormen afloat are
probably the crew of the lost Yankee ship
Puritan. Three days after they took to the
boats they sighted an island, but the mate
remembered some hair-raising cannibal yarns
he had read as a boy, and assured the crew
that a landing there would mean a big feast,
with themselves figuring on the bill of fare.
They pulled their belts a hole or two tighter
and sneaked past with fearful scannings of
the horizon for the cannibal chief’s canoes,
and kept their course for another 10 days of
misery. Finally, when they were beginning
to feel some sympathy for the feelings of
even cannibals, they sighted another island
in ,the same group, and decided that, even
if they were eaten there, they’d probably be
fed up on a few square meals first, and that
was worth it, so they ran the boat ashore.
When they were told that they couldn’t find
a cannibal with a fine tooth comb in all the
Eastern Pacifie, and that if they’d landed at
the first island they would have been met by
the Lord Mayor with an address of welcome
and the Municipal Band playing “Hail
Columbia,” and the Corporation cook
hastily putting on the turtle soup to warm
up for them, they made one or two remarks
to that mate. The mate had to admit sadly
that, when he thought of the 700 or 800
miles they had frantically fled away from
fried fish and turtle steak, they couldn’t say
anything that hurt as much as his own feel-
ingS ’ * * * . *
“Malbon” : Observe that a Vic. M.P. has
a Daylight Saving Bill on the stocks. The
Bulletin says there “is something to re-
commend” Outtrim’s idea. But why make
all this elaborate fuss, putting clocks on in this
month, and putting them back again some
other month 7 As a case in point, the Queens-
land Railway Department closes its goods
sheds at 5 p.m. in winter and at 5.30 p.m. in
summer, or thereabouts, and isn’t so puerile
as to pretend that the time is 5 o’clock,
when it is half an hour nearer the schnapps
and bitters that come before dinner.
* * * *
Some people go on strange pilgrimages.
As a case in point, an old man was recently
found at Tatura (Vic.) —a very, very old
and dirty man and nearly blind. He had
collapsed from exhaustion in a pool of water.
This ancient hoof-traveller was worth about
£1560, yet he was plugging in rags over a
stretch of 200 miles or more with Bendigo
for his destination. And he wasn’t looking
for his long-lost son or the holy grail, nor
was he on the track of the man who had
stolen his wife : the deplorable old person’s
destination was just the shop of a common-
place Chinese herbalist.
An unusual prosecution was undertaken
at Sydney in the Central Criminal Court a
few days ago, when the Newcastle and Hun-
ter River Shipping (jo. was asked to be up-
standing and either remove a dark suspicion
that the steamer Hunter had been sent to
sea in an unseaworthy state or take the
consequences. The allegations, put briefly,
were that the vessel ran or jumped upon a
natural monument in the Hunter river last
October. It climbed off, and, without being-
docked, was loaded up with 700 excursionists
and despatched to the Hawkesbury. But,
after it had finished the job, the officers be-
gan to have doubts and other portable pro-
perty. And these doubts grew into a cer-
tainty that was calculated to make the jaw
drop when they docked the Hunter and
found a big hole through which David Jones
was doubtless trying to crawl for all he was
worth. Happily, the hole was too small to
fully admit Jones, or Jones, much fattened
by the eating of wrecks, was too big for the
hole; still the hole was a disquieting cir-
cumstance, especially combined with the
knowledge that Jones was outside. Various
experts declared that the orifice didn’t, in
itself, make the ship unseaworthy, but they
all seemed to imply that they didn’t con-
sider it an advantage. It appeared, how-
ever, that the co., regarded as a co., didn’t
know that its ship was plugging up and
down the coast while afflicted with submar-
ine ventilation, so the hole blew over, so to
speak. It was a fairly exciting gap while it
lasted, but the incident, as diplomatists say,
is now closed. So is the hole.
Colonel Barney, and the story of what he
noted and what he didn’t note at the time
of his trip to Gladstone (Q.) in the very
long ago, are given a prominent place in the
re-awakened newspaper controversy re the
Spanish ship that is supposed to have per-
ished there in 1596. Barney’s testimony
either way is absolutely worthless. He was
careless of everything but himself, his family
anu belongings. The Lord Auckland, in
which he sailed from Sydney to take charge
of the new colony of North Australia (to be
peopled by prisoners from Pentonville)
grounded on a shoal while abreast of Facing
Island. Then Barney rose in haste, had his
portable goods put into a boat, got in him-
selr, hauled in his wife, and fled to the shore.
There he lay down and went to sleep, like
George Reid. He took no part in directing
or helping those on board, but when all was
announced safe, he and his family returned
to the ship. Some days later he issued a
manuscript Government Gazette proclaim-
ing the establishment of the new colony of
North Australia, and then he lay down again
exhausted with the effort. He was a most
horizontal colonel. Finding no control over
them, the military got drunk. The S. M.
Herald of that day denounced Barney, and
Robert Lowe said things about him that
even a dog would resent. Finally the flat
warrior threw up the sponge, and the enter-
prise was abandoned. As an authority upon
the alleged Spanish occupation of Gladstone
he is utterly valueless, and he doesn’t seem
worth much on any subject.
HEAH! HEAH!
Under the Parliament Bill the Lords will con-
tinue to possess exceedingly valuable rights and
powers. If they will thoroughly and sympathetically
study the nation’s needs, they will recover the in-
fluence which they are fitted by birth and education
to exercise on behalf of the general welfare. —S.A.
Register.
IST HEREDITARY PEER: "Haw! How do you
laike the latter part of that—er—observa-
tion?”
2ND DITTO: “ Bai Jove, I laike it. Blood and
bwains must eventually twiumph."
THE BENDING RACE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Saturday, 1.30 p.m.—Bending Race.”— Vic.
Show’s programme.
I watched the horsemen twist around,
Within, and past each steady post;
Whichever pony there was found
The twistiest, had the winner’s boast
And going thence to have a drink
I grew reflective o’er tmy beer,
And truly couldn’t help but think
Of Alfred Deakin’s bright career.
Men—facts —were like those posts to him :
Let one resist, or two deride,
Or three start howling with a vim—
Then Alfred nimbly skipped aside.
He skipped to left, he skipped to right.
To lofty hopes, to bargains base,
He shied at darkness and at light,
And ran a perfect Bending Race.
Too deft in sliding out of shock,
Too swift to mix it up in strife,
He would not take a lusty knock
In that hard steeplechase called Life.
With broken necks too many lie,
So fierce and fast the gallop goes!
And Alfred learned to swerve and shy
From foes to friends, from friends to foes.
There’s some will ride a hurdle down
Where others jump it high and clean,
And though it’s not the best renown,
Good winners with cut legs I’ve seen.
Take Old Bill Lyne—-he used to race
Much like a camel with a hump;
All scarred and bruised he got his place—
But Alfred always'dodged his jump.
Grand Nationals will yet be run
With big, brave horses in the lead,
And stakes be paid, and bets be won —
But Alfred sits and takes no heed.
For in a' little niche of fame
He finds himself a little place,
Wherein will stand inscribed his name —
The winner of the Bending Race.
VICTORIA.
C.


A l^dcfry
• fJ \
A e> e^
C o T o^
f e_«-y
iTt-^S
PI
The countryman, if he Is at all pros
perous. now comes to the metropolis in
a motor-car and a suit of clothes that a
Bond-street tailor might envy. Farmer
Hayseed is dying out in Victoria ; <f
there are many more prosperous seasons
he will be extinct altogether. As it is.
you can no longer pick him out in the
streets.
Tht Ao* rvi\y W"f V f l{ "■ '
Vh«, sfieK<, « f»; f"*
to * S K iS« WAJ -fo-fte 5
The conviction is therefore forced upon
us that the Federal Government possesses
all the powers which are requisite for
breaking up the sugar refining monopoly
of Australia. If it choose to establish the
works at the Capital site, it has plenary
authority under section I 25. and the 31st
. sub-section of Section 51 Age
C.ottrje ifyere. l>e
in I?re °f-
geitme beojole
I)m+-tfi I*3" C&n be i*
"+Tme 'Ke (oeof>le io Tfie
£MA (0 J
iv» 'tov'M >?> +o a* cow down £oH !*■»<>
S+, VrU* l 6« Soil V l ' be
fouv>a 'To
fov ih^h»>:■+*
bc/iod 4-0 -Hhc btAHotKT^
*«wir ,
They cannot be continued it they
do not pay The breaking-point with
Australian industries seems danger-
ously near already- Prices are going
up so much that workers are little
better off than they were before.—Argos
as 6tW i
rc« > X*'K'e- e * AV'lr'/irjo , -ftjcy SWW not-+a k i-Tynlcs^
-> rf.~ -S
The party will comprise both those
who are scorned by the other side as
being almost good-as-Labor men and
those who regard almost any political
change with a caution approaching
timidity. The party cannot take its pace
either from its most radical side or from
its most conservative section, but will
derive its impulses and its force from the
great middle, which loathes the falsehood
of extremes.
O" *l*'"
Jpe,+ . Pa/fy
• /V V°*7«y (?o€t
%r -o,
drav»n Continue*, l
!?«. Y'u !
rcor*!>S£ v
WvToU-
Jto^
or
'Vdle
'%t of ««*• "*> on
“Jh< 6t'e&J" Middle —■ *io+, corner if be fo you +o realise Ita r We c*>» r £o ba^K.
In the beginning of May. Britton was
convicted of an offence against a girl un-
der the age of 1 6 years. The material fact.
which was not brought out. was that, at
the time of one of the alleged offences.
Britton was I l miles away from the place
where it was sworn by the girl the affair
look place The detective questioned the
girl He obtained admissions from her
that her statement in the box was a
tissue of perjury.
Hr love o£ tfcd^en
%ej"~ *f> Bill. »H &>
gjrl
y/i Jc a _
A GENERAL LOOK ROUND.


Squatter Sheep Branding Oil
SCOURS OUT OF THE WOOL.
Does not contain Pitch, Tar or other injurious ingredients.
Melbourne and Sydney. [4
LEWIS & WHITTY
McKENZIE’S EXCELSIOR BAKING POWDER.
Diamonds
Reduced
Enormously.
WHY?
2 Special White
Di imonds and 1
Sapphire, £5/10/-
Selected Diamonds
and 1 Sapphire,
£l2/12/-
2 Choice Diamonds
and 3 Sapphires,
£lO/10/-
We took on some time ago a Sole Agency calling for an immense output, and to live up to it we
are selling Diamonds at merely a broker’s commission on Hie actual landed cost.
They are shown loose, and set in rings and jewellery generally, and we feel sure that our new
departure will pay us, owing to the advertisement and the increase of customers.
Plain Figures"!
Cash. J
FAIRFAX 8 ROBERTS,
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“Settled”: “Phoenix” (B. 10/8/’ll) may
know a thing or two about the N.S.W. Northern
Rivers stinging-tree, but he certainly knows nothing
about the one that grows in Queensland. In no way
do their leaves resemble those of a mulberry. For one
thing, they are quite heart-shaped. The sting is so
terrible that nothing alive in Queensland will pur-
posely rub up against it, and no sane cow would
dream of eating the foliage. I have seen working
bullocks go almost mad after coming in contact with
it, and I have been kicked yards while trying to
extract the juice from the working bullock’s sister
after she had met with the same sort of accident.
The effect is so severe on the goddess that the teats
go blind after a few stings; and many good cows
have found their way to the butcher’s in consequence.
The only living thing I have seen on the vegetable
is the big soldier ant; and I think this chap wor-
ships it on account of its ability to bite, as though
it were an army of “soldiers” rolled into one.
“Dossett”: All I can tell “Phoenix” (B.
10/8/’ll) about the stinging-tree is the most im-
portant thing to know. If he ever comes in contact
with it, liquid ammonia, freely applied, will enable
him to lower a pint of beer without turning somer-
saults. I’ve proved it.
SYNONYMOUS.
LADY (visiting navvies’ camp): “I suppose you go into town on Saturday night.”
N AVVIE: “ Sometimes , lady; but, as a rule, we get them to send it out in a demijohn .”
“9-3-11": Re pars. (B. 17/8/’ll) on the
death adder. One Abo-fellow asserts that the viper
is only found in rocky country. Another says he
loves to play in the dust on a floury road. Both
wrong. The death adder is found mostly in poor
forest country and on the grassy headlands along the
coast; whether there are rocks or not is only a
matter of detail, for the adder caretli not. The sand
is the place where he loves to play. I have killed
death adders measuring 3ft. in length in the Tweed
River District (N.S.W.). “Hassan” asks isn’t 7yds.
a little over the odds for the jump of an adder?
No; the large ones can jump that distance without
much trouble—l have seen them do a little more.
The reason he is quite still until pushed is that he
is deaf and very dull of eyesight. As soon as he
is touched, he strikes the nearest object he sees in
the direction from which the touch came; thus if
you stand on the south side and touch him on the
north side with a crooked stick, he springs at any-
thing he sees on the north, or, if nothing else offers,
at the air, and, consequently, right away from the
person manipulating the stick.
“Montalex” escapes the death that other
men have died: —
“Pride goeth before destruction.” I knew all
about the venomous properties of the little red-
backed spider, known in Maori land as the “katipo ;
and when a friend pointed out one the other day,
and asked if it were the real Mackay, I said, “You
bet! Fetch a little phial and a cork, and see me
get him.” But I didn’t. He got me! There’s a
knack of smartly nipping the little demon up be-
tween finger and thumb, and popping him into limbo
before he knows what’s happening. I had done the
trick often, but this time I must have been the tenth
of a second too slow. A pang shot from thumb to
shoulder. I “swore a prayer or two” and danced a
weird fandango until the pain let-up on me, which
it did in about half a minute. But, then, just as 1
was beginning to hope that the circus was happily
over, the agony hit me suddenly harder than ever,
and for the next three hours—minutes, I mean —X
executed corantos, lavoltas, sarabands, boleros, eachu-
cas, and all the rest of ’em. After that the intervals
became longer and the pain less poignant, but next
morning my arm was puffed and purple from wrist
to shoulder, and there was a big swelling in the
armpit that drove me to a doctor, and kept me at
him for a fortnight. He talked about septicaemia,
and said I was lucky. Dunno about the luck, but I
do know that, though I have been stung by most
kinds of bees, wasps and ants—including that holy
terror, the sumpit-api of Malaysia—-I give easily the
first prize for agony-production to little Monsieur
Rouge-et-Noir.
“Vagabond”: I’ve seen a-plenty nigger
mothers who went one better than the Solomon Island-
ers mentioned by “Arlo” (B. 10/8/’ll). He says that
a few days after the baby is found among the cab-
bages or the poetical island equivalent, the .mother
girds on her spade and hoe; and hies forth to dig
the spuds, etc. The African nig. beats that. It is a
common thing there for the mother to go on work-
ing in the fields till within an hour or so of the
trouble, to retire gracefully, and within another hour
or two get Back to the Land and bog in to work
again, leaving the new arrival under a scrap of
shade. The buck nigger in those parts doesn’t en-
courage spells-off on any excuse whatever. He buys
the ladies for so many cows down, and the market
value of the candidate is mainly decided on two
things—her probable horse-power in the fields and
the likelihood of her producing children, the latter
figured out on appearance and family records. Looks
don’t cut much ice, though, Of course, a good-looker
might tip the scale down another calf on a close
bargain. But if the proposed bride was a perfect
Venus, and had, say, only one hand, the groom would
as soon think of buying a working bullock with
three legs.
“Yalgun” : Before fowl-roosts are off, ex-
cuse me while I inform “Jeroi” that I have seen
fowls using a mulberry-tree and peach-tree in the
•same yard as boudoirs, with the result that the peach
died. If you will excuse “Jeroi,” he might explain
the reason.
“JDKZ”: Referring to the appeal of
“Wynde Wiffe” against the decision of “Mr. Justice
Ockey,” that venomous snakes do not climb (B.
24/8/’ll), I have looked into the Genesis law repoit
of the case referred to, viz., “Landlord v. Adam and
Another,” and find that there is no ieferer.ce to the
height of the apple-tree or the length of the snake,
There is ample evidence that the orchard had been
but recently planted, and it is, therefore, reasonable
to assume that the tree could not have been more
t j ian or sft. high. The snake was probably a
go-footer (as Nick would be sure to do the thing
,■, +Ol -i iL would
well )’ so that ’ by standmg on his tail he would
have reached over the top of the tree and down me
other side. Further, there is no evidence that it was
a venomous snake. And, lastly, even admitting that
the tree was a 50-footer, and the snake a little
josser and venomous, it would have been an easy
matter for him to have procured an apple for his
test match without climbing, as the law of gravita-
tion had- already been invented. Appeal, therefore,
dismissed, with costs on highest scale.
A BAR TO BUSINESS.
RABBY-O (ferociously): “Wi rabbi’! Wi ’ rabbi! Wi rabbi!" (Old parly puts her
head out above.) "D'yer WANT any wi rabbi?”
LADY: “ Wot's that?”
RABBY-O: “ I ses, d'yer want any rabbi’?”
LADY: “No.”
RABBY-O: “Well, take yer blessed ’ ead in!”
“Mallarapoonie” ; Westralia provides some
unusual aboriginal place-names. Here are a few
which I have hit up against lately, with detrimental
results to my jaw: Ivoorarawalyee, Gwambygine,
Moonyoonooka, Yundamindra, Dumbleyung, Widgie-
mooltha, Toodyay. Yowergabbie, Waggrakine, Nab-
bawa, Jennacubbine, Yatheroo and Mooliabeenee.
Then there are the “Ups,” a big family in Groper-
land—Dandalup, Kojonup, Wagerup,' Gwonangcrup,
Barrabupp, Cookernup, Mummbellup, Peringilup,
_ , j, 1 or, mmp the
Pootenup, Dwalgarup, and so on. Next come the
“ings”—Wandering, Benjabbenng, lillimmnmg,
Ivarping, Bulla Bulling, Gilgering,' Korrelocking,
Noggogering, Popanvinning, Ivatanning and Bowelling.
Personally, I thing'Bowelling ought to be abolished
as an indictable offence, and as being outside 1 olite
Society. Following these are a few that add to the
gaiety of life in an otherwise flat and montonous
r** lu,,b “ —nrS
his dusky bride in the Northern Terntorj , Mern o ig
might otherwise be Jim-jam; Narrogin was carica-
tured in The Bulletin long ago, with humorous
effect; Walkaway sounds like .someone humping
Matilda from a railwav terminus; while Y’ouanme
might be niggerised into “two pfella.” All these are
good Australians, and calculated to make a man’s heart
feel srood when he meets them in a mulga scrub or
jarrah forest. But there are old-world names that
make me tired. A 1 the Newcastles and Marybor-
oughs, and Strathfields, and Warwicks and so on,
show a lamentable and monotonous poverty of mven-
tion. Besides, no one would expect a traitor to
his native land to arise from a birthplace wit a
name like Coonabarabran. Give me the pure Aus-
tralian, the Goondiwindis, the Murnpeowies, the
Meanthijinnis, Carrulpa-ninnas, Y udnamutnas and Um-
baratnas every time. And there is no necessity to adlicie
to the long- term either, when there short two-
syllable ones like Cobar, Naria, Yatchaw, Bulli, Kulo,
Moonta, etc., to be had. The native place-name
should always be adopted. Invariably it he
found to be the most suitable and appropriate, besides
being euphonic. In fact, you couldn’t find better if
you searched the country from Stockinbingal to
Doodlakine.
* * *
“Blackall”: At Boatman (Q.) artesian
bore, just completed, we fixed the pipe so that the
water ran into two 400-gallon tanks direct. The tanks
when put in place were empty and clean. When
they were full we turned the water away, and then
found hundreds of small and apparently blind fish
swimming inside the tanks, in no way incommoded
by the water being scalding hot. There was abso-
lutely no other way for the fish to get into the tanks
except through the bore pipe. We struck a splendid
flow in the bore, and the owners did the christening
with a cask of whisky. The townsfolk tracked the
Luggy for the 2J miles; and next morning the town
was^deserted—no shops open; ditto, pubs. Of course
it was the fish they were all after.
“Quidam” ; Curious things, names. There
is Jenolan, as applied to caves, for instance. The
word, somebody will tell you, means “Abode of the
Bounding Kangaroo” ; another learned liar translates
it, “Big pfeller hole, where Debbil-Debbil live.”
Perhaps it’s true; still, long ago, one J. Nolan carved
his name at the caves, and it’s quite as likely that
that’s how the tourist show-place got its present-
day label. Then there is the River Lett, at Hartley
(N.S.W.). I often wondered why it was called the
River Lett, when other streams in the locality were
Brown>fi Rive ,. ; Middle River , Fish
River> and so OTI gut at last the mystery was ex-
plained. A surveyor, exploring the.district in its
early days, camped by the stream, and in the official
S p e i]j n g h e wrote “riverlet,” and marked the “river-
jet” on his sketch map. When the map was being
elaborated in Sydney, the Department’s draughtsman,
tfWtfMs
kj. » presumably out of pure philanthropy. And to
this day the little mountain stream is rippling gaily
over the rocks with this cart-before-the-horse sort of
name, and the two people who, between them, gave
Australia an extra river never even got a rise in
screw. And it’s just as good a river as the Cotter,
too, and more permanently damp. *
.
a exampie of tthiSTl driven by
tQ include in the menu (B . 31/8/’ll). It
surprise him to know that -there are civilised
comtri J where the dish is looked on as a luxury,
Around the Mediterranean the flabby goods are
ea^.en re g U i ar iy. j*n Italy, especially, there are fisher
Bovg who make a regu i ar living catching “polopi.”
Th ’ e procedure is to ramble round the rocks at low
y de and pok e ail arm down any likely crevice. The
oC j; opus f a neies he’s got something to eat, and freezes
on , and g e f- s y ank ed out and eaten instead. In the
seaport towns you can see the “polopi” being
hawked round the streets and sold at the corners
j US £ as y OU see pra wns here. They look like pink
dc ij r j um tremens ; but taste them, and you’ll find
them good goods. The lot I was broken-in with
wag cu t j n short lengths and fried in batter. The
flesh is something between fish and flesh in grain,
and has a taste like very delicately-flavored meat—
say> veal .
* * .* *
“Dick K.” : I beg to name grey box as
being a harder timber than the black wattle, men-
tjoned by “Wang” (B. 27/7/T1). In a green state
gTey box is slightly softer than flint; when dead it
j s harder than the Devil’s corns, and the chopping of it
would break anything but the heart of an Australian
bushman. The fact of “Wang” having “gapped”
his axe through assaulting wattle does not prove
hardness in the other party. I’ve seen axes “gapped”
in an argument with soft, green stringy-bark. It all
depends on the axe. Now, I use mine for quarrying,
but it won’t cut grey box. I use dynamite when I
want to knock splinters off that animal.
DUST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Melbourne man arose to sav
That lying filled him with disgust,
But on St. Kilda-road one day
He’d seen the air so stiff with dust
That when they hosed the cloud a bit
The water just bored holes in it.
A stranger out of Maoriland
Last Summer saw the dust so thick
That you could plough it over, and
When at a dog he threw a brick
The miss le he essayed to chuck
Rose in the atmosphere, and stuck.
Then Truthful James from Broken Ilill
With weary mien remembered when
Thick yellow dust the space did fill
’Twixt Heaven and Earth, and business men
Who’d aught of consequence to do
Were forced to put a tunnel through!
VICTORIA.
BILLY T.


ĥg
CARTERS
.E
The Wretchedness
of Constipation
Can quickly be overcome by
CAll i'ER’S LITTLE LIVER PILLS.
Purely vegetable act surely and
gently on the liver. Cure Biliousness,
Headache, Dizziness, and Indigestion,
They do their duty.
Small Pill, {'mall Dose, Small Price.
(iENLLSE must bear Signature
hg
A FINE FIVE=COLORED
PICTURE, shcvwing Cap-
tain Cook’s Statue and the Aus-
tralian Flag, with Calendar from
July to June, will be sent free
of cost on receipt of your name
and address..
Pi.easr Write to
THE INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LTD.,
“The 1.0. A.,”
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth,
Hobart, Rockhampton, Townsville.
Barked Your Shins?
Well, try Dr. Sheldon’s Magnetic Liniment;
will take away all the pain and stiffness, and y
will forget all about it. Price, Is. 6d. and 3s.*
CALDWELL’S
High
Quality
INKS
Stocked by
ANTHONY HORDERN 8 SONS,
Universal Providers, Brickfield Hill.
PLASMON
THE GREAT NERVE
AND BRAIN FOOD.
PLASMON COCOA. PLASMON CHOCOLATE.
PLASMON BISCUITS. PLASMON OATS.
Send for C- B. Fry’s Book on Tracing,
Post Free on application to
Australian Depot : 5& 7 Barrack St., Sydney-
The Royal Hotel,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Most centrally situated Hotel in Sydney.
Best place to lunch and dine in town.
J. W. COCKBAINE, Proprietor.
“Wilkie”: Up in the Ilodgkinson coun-
try (Q.) there are two descriptions of saurians, one
the small variety, locally known as “crocodiles,” and
accounted harmless, and the other the large gentle-
man called “alligator.” Both names are probably
misapplied ; but that is a trifling detail. The larger
lizard, if his appetite is good, is capable of
hooking a horse, or even a man, from the bank of a
lagoon. Consequently, wary prospectors generally
avoid trouble by heaving a plug of gelignite before
getting too close to a suspicious-looking waterhole.
One day a,couple of prospectors arrived at a lagoon,
and before watering their horses made the usual
commotion. About a quarter of a mile along the
waterhole a tribe of binghis were out in the liquid
catching the fish that they had stupefied with the
weed that the northern nigger uses for the purpose,
and too intent on the business to notice the approach
of the conquering white man. The incident fur-
nished a beautiful illustration of the vibration set
up in • aqua (fairly) pur a by the action of a high
explosive, as, almost simultaneously with the con-
cussion, the aboriginal sports left the liquid refresh-
ment with one wild, unnatural yell, and, without
waiting for spears, boomerangs, dilly-bags, and other
impedimenta, started on a sprint championship for
the scrub-covered fastnesses of Mount Mulligan,
about 10 miles towards the horizon. Even the
smallest piccaninny considerably exceeded the motor-
car speed limit.
* * « *
“Tamumu” : Re “turkey,” as applied to a
bushman’s equipment. In S. E. White’s “Blazed
Trail,” a drunken lumber-jack has just been thrown
off a train in motion, after the playful manner
adopted by railway conductors towards hoboes and
other ride-stealers in the free and enlightened Re-
public. Then follows:
“Where’s that fellow’s turkey?” he inquired.
Several men looked towards Thorpe, who, not under-
standing this argot of the camps, was a little be-
wildered. Shearer reached over his head and took
from the rack a heavy canvas bag, which he handed
to the conductor.
“That’s the ‘turkey,’ ” he explained.
This would seem to indicate that “turkey” is simply
an old and esteemed friend, well known throughout
Australasia as Swag, Bluey, Matilda, Drum, Totalisa-
tor, Parcel, Curse o’ God, etc., to say nothing of
other titles quite unfit for publication.
“The Pariah”: Have twice seen rabbits
mesmerised by cats. In each case the charmer was
a lady and the charmed a buck, but this may have
been only coincidence. Bunny seemed to have no
power to do anything but squeal, which he did with
vigor. How puss started operations I don’t know, as
I was attracted by the squealing in each case. Both
arrests were made in orthodox fashion by the coat
collar, and both prisoners died owing to a punctured
jugular. I was called a liar the first time, but I
had one of my base calumniators as a witness to the
second performance.
* * * *
“H.S.M.”: Took one of my tired immi-
grants out fishing to-day. He was new at the game;
so I fixed up the tackle, and we pulled out to the
middle of a deep waterhole in river, sat back to
back, and cast our lines. Presently he said: “What
do you call that little painted thing fixed on to the
line?” “That’s the float,” I replied. “Are they
expensive?” was his next. “That one of yours is
a pretty good one,” I volunteered. “Well,” he said,
“I’m sorry, sir, but it’s just sunk 1”
A LIVELY SENSATION.
P AT: “ Coo-ee! Mick, phwat does yez fale loike
up there ploying around loike a birrud in a
airy plane?"
M ICK: “Is it yerself, Pat? Well, come up
and see. I fate just loike one of Heaven’s
angels out on lave of absence, sure."
“Eddyson”: The man with tram-cable
nerves is the only fortunate. Juff had rotten nerves.
He was a studious man, with a mania
for microscopes, which he made him-
self, grinding the lenses with the
patience of a demnition Chilian mill.
He lived in a small bush township
beyond Dimolly, and one night a
rooster belonging to Winton, whose
house was quite a quarter of a mile
off, got hold of his nerves, and drove
Juff to the verge of idiocy. This
rooster had a particularly piercing
crow, with a tinny finish, breaking
deplorably on the high note. He
started experimenting with his crow
on the night in question, having made
lip his mind to fetch that triumphant
top-note, or break the welkin in the
attempt, and he crowed and crowed,
hour after hour, and Juff lay on his
bed and writhed like a soul in the
Pit. After that Juff was simply the
rooster’s meat. The rooster was the
boss fiend of a New Gehenna, and Juff
was the one and only damned. Even-
tually Juff appeared to Winton,
white-faced, haggard, tremulous as a
wheat field, and stated his piteous
case against the crowing cock with a
shattered top note. A fortnight later
Winton met Juff. “Great Scott,
man!” gasped the former, “you’re
looking worse and worse.” “Yes,”
replied the man of nerves ; “I’ve been
lying awake of nights, waiting for
that infernal rooster of yours to be-
gin.” “Confound it!” snorted Win-
ton, “I killed him the day you com-
plained. Your housekeeper bought
him.” “Then I ate him?” Juff said.
That should have been satisfactory,
but two months from date Juff was
stowed away in a wild asylum, and
his pleasant delusion was a strident
rooster in his inside that kept him
awake by crowing all night long.
‘Tete” : I’ll back the Maori to eat any-
one on this earth. And he knows his power, too.
“King” Mahuta, he of the big talk and the bigger
dreams, wishing to sell a few hundreds of thou-
sands of acres of “surplus” lands, lately summoned
a little house-party to help him consider the matter.
The following trifles appeared on the bill-of-fare:
3822 loaves of bread, 215 cases of cabin bread,
21281 b. of butter, 142 bags of sugar, 1640 tins of
jam, 57 bullocks, 54 pigs, 356 sacks of potatoes,
274 sacks of kumeras, 4 bags of rice, 1200 pigeons,
474 sacks of pipis, 70 boxes of toheroas, 102 sacks
of mussels, 83 sacks of tuna (eels), 35 sacks of
hapuka (the smell of which is enough at any time
to put the ordinary pakeha off his food for days),
80 boxes of manga (barracouta), 8 cases of cocoa,
2001 b. of tea, 12 bottles of tomato sauce. Latest
advices are that Mahuta is asking the Government
for a subsidy. I suppose he wants to buy some
medicine.
AN EPICURE.
THE GIRL: “I suppose there is nothing else in the world you like better than lollies, Sam?"
SAM: “My word ! One thing I like better, mine thinkit.”
THE GIRL: “Well, tell me."
SAM: Possum are honey."
“Pick” : When you’re talking of Australian
timbers that will stand the acid of age, I want to
introduce a line of red-gum posts that I helped to
extract from a swampy flat near Bermagui, on the
South Coast (N.S.W.). These posts stood with wet
feet for 34 years, holding up the rails of a boundary-
fence. The spotted-gum rails had given in to dry
rot and white ants, but the posts were still sound,
little weathered or sun-cracked, and the portions
underground had no appearance of footrot, or even
chilblains. I, therefore, vociferously proclaim the
red-gum as the daisy vegetable among long-standing
hardwoods, and I want to hear of its betters from
Abo-Washingtons only.
THE STERN REPROOF.
“Lish'n me, my friend! Pull yoursel’ togez-
ker—you're all crooked!”
“Condamine” : If any Abo-quack will tell
me the cause and cure of “brigalow itch,” I will
drink his health. For myself, I only know for cer-
tain that it was a most unpardonable oversight to
neglect it on a certain occasion, some years back,
when plagues were all the rage in Egypt. To those
fortunate ones who are not acquainted with it, I
might explain that it is something like a poisonous
insect bite, and only seems to affect workers in
brigalow and similar scrubs. What causes it I have
never heard properly explained ; but the bark of the
brigalow tree is generally debited with it. My own
opinion is that it is due to the hairy remains of a
caterpillar, which adheres to the bark after the owner
performs the caterpillar equivalent of throwing
seven. Anyway, I know that should one of these in-
sects drop on to the back of the neck and be slapped
off, the result is something like getting a stroke
from Sam Johnford.
“Chink” ; Apropos the discussion on snake-
killing birds, I can supply a few figures that will
cause some Aboliars to adjust their views. Where I
was in Gippsland some years ago, snakes were as
numerous as “Liberal” politicians’ excuses for ham-
pering Australia’s progress. A careful tally was
kept of the operations of their enemies, as observed,
and in five months the killings were credited as fol-
lows: Laughing Jacks, 62; butcher-birds, 15; spar-
row hawks (kestrels), 3; eagles, 2; and owls, 2;
total, 84.
“Wattle”: Black Billy was general utility
on a station, and his earliest morning job was feed-
ing the fowls. The boss suggested to him that they
might be fed a bit earlier, to which Billy replied.
“By cripes, boss, mine tinkit you bin wantem this
pfeller lift ’em off plurry roost next time.”
AT THE BOGEY-HOLE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The sun rolls blazing dow.i the west, t'.ie knock-off
whistle blows,
The smithy-shack falls silent, and the buzz-saw
slackens, dumb ;
The shadows lengthen eastward, and the surface-
“talent” goes
To skylark in the singing creek where whitening
waters hum
And purr across the stones, and swirl green in the
shady pool,
Green in the weedy depths, ‘and yellow on the sand
—a dream
Of sparkling color, as the flashing runnels, crystal,
cool,
Rush rippling past the painted rocks that sprawl
across the stream.
Low boughs bend blossomingabove the placid pool,
and drip
A scant, slow flood of petals, pink and white, upon
the creek
That crawls beneath; and Bill and Co. come loung-
ing down, and slip
Lazy into the flood, leaving the coarse, confining
breek
And shirt and hobnailed blucher planted where the
towels wait
Upon the looming shoulder of the falls, in breezy
shade
Among the scrub; and, later, throned in cool,
primeval state,
Bill lolls upon his gravel-bank, in nature’s robe
arrayed.
A while, below the spouting falls, uproarious naked-
ness,
Cleaving the shadowed deep, goes shouting breath-
less to the bank,
While, up above, swift scarlet marks the wild,
peculiar dress
Of niggers nipping through the scrub, long-footed,
bony, lank ;
Where lubras, black and blushless, giggle, goggle-
eyed, and screech
Wild nigger-gibes and jokes profound about this
Bill or that—
Strange gibes that sound like German to the heedless
ears they reach ;
How Sammy Brown is spindle-shanked and William
Johnson fat!
The sun goes down, with crimson clouds about his
chariot-wheels,
And Bill swims slowly out and slings his clothes
upon his back ;
The niggers’ camp-curs yelp and snarl, the skittish
lubra squeals
And cackles as she picks her pet from out the
mongrel pack.
The crowd is booted, shirted, breeched, that lounged,
brown-shouldered, bare,
Along the shallows. Night comes down; where
blazing splendor shone
Fine brilliance decks the sky. Above the creek the
camp-fires flare,
And, while Bill skins the fatted steak, Sam puts
the billy on!
VICTORIA.
FRANK HENTY.
THE ABSTAINER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The sky was of brass ; there was no sign of rain ;
My mouth seemed as dry as the sun-baked plain,
When I saw, in the shade of a tall, hot tree,
A drover, and asked him to drink with me.
He was wrinkled and bearded and old and grey,
And he smiled at me in a kindly way;
Then he started to talk of the old-time sprees
And the spidery ends of those jamborees.
“Well, there’s no doubt about it, to-day is hot;
But, if you don’t mind, son, I’d rather not.”
Then he grinned in the shade of that tall, hot tree.
“I’m thirsty enough as I am,” said he.
N.S.W.
TOY WHEEL.
REUNITED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The wife of Reverend Abel Brown
Went to the Summer Sea
To hunt her missing husband down;
Long since he’d sailed from Sydney town
The savage soul to free.
She came to where a chieftain sat,
And told her tale of woe.
I hate to have to tell you that
A heathen most polite and fat
Could treat a lady so ;
But when that nigger went to rest,
A glutton sore misguided,
He had tattooed upon his chest,
By way of loathly heathen jest:
“In death they’re not divided!”
VICTORIA.
SILAS SNELL.


THE CONTESTS BEGIN.-BOGEY NO. 1.
Mr Tonkin was in fine form in criticising the Government’s programme. He laid particular stress on the point of loyalty to the Empire, and before long his remarks
about the dominions being with Great Britain when there was anything to be gained, and not with her when there was trouble, tickled up members of the Labor party . The
S.M. HERALD, rousingly.
AUSTRALIA: “Yes, yes! A thrilling and graceful display, indeed. But I don’t see how it will help my railway construction, defence, land settlement,” etc., etc.


GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
5
For
QUALITY.
WORLD-FAMED
HATS.
For
durability.
20th Century Moleskin.
The Best for Hard Wear.
Registered Trade Mark.
[WARRANTED PURECOTTON
9
dJ
See that the above Registered Word and
Trade Mark are on and inside every garment.
Garments can be obtained at alt Storekeepers.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Captain Lloyd, who died at Hobart a few
days ago, aged 93 years, came to old Van
Diemen’s Land in the same ship that
brought Sir John Franklin as Governor, in
3837. The deceased once had a professional
interview with Martin Cash, bushranger.
A letter re Judkins: —
Adelaide Social Reform Bureau has raised a £2OO
subscription to the Judkins Fund in Melbourne, which
is now well into the second thousand. The hopeless
sickness of the pugnacious little Purist seems to have
reminded many people that, like Othello, he did the
State some service. It was Judkins who practically
compelled the Victorian Government to put an end
to Wren’s lawless Tote and club, what time Premier
Bent was personally hobnobbing with the law-
breakers. The Wowserism that vents itself in carp-
ings at “Social evils” is only a casual blot on the
Judkinsism that had a grave political evil to de-
nounce. Jud. did something that every decent citizen
of Melbourne approved. He worried and bullied the
Government into cutting a cancerous growth out of
the body politic, and whether he worked as a Wowser
or a reformer the result was equally good. Now that
his own poor little body is afflicted by a cancerous
growth, which seemingly is beyond eradication, he
has the comfort of knowing that public sympathy
is mounting up to a substantial figure. Spook jour-
nalist Stead, the man who owns the spirit of Julia,
sent £lOO by cable.
HORRIBLE REFLECTION.
For the purposes of this Act a Chinaman shall be
deemed to be a girl under 18 years of age.
To prevent Chinese competition in Maoriland
laundries (which come under the Factories Act)
the above amendment in the interpretation
clause was sent to the Crown Law Office for
consideration.
Joe Mikulee, the American who is said to
he walking round the earth for a 30,000-dollar
bonus, told an Age reporter that, when he
started Avalking, he took size six in boots,
but now he takes nines. Well, there have
been other athletes who started with a 6f
hat, and in 12 months developed a head the
size of a kitchen copper. Apparently suc-
cess must get you at one end or the other.
Incidentally, Mikulee’s statement casts a
vivid light on the progress and development
of policemen’s feet. There’s a well-known
politician, too, who has developed the largest
pair of feet in Australian politics, running
away from his principles.
Mrs. G. 11. Cox, who died recently at
Burrundulla, Mudgee (N.S.W.), aged 78
years, was the widow of G. H. Cox, who, at
his death in 1901, was dad of the Legisla-
tive Council. Mrs. Cox and her husband
were cousins, he being the son of George
Cox, and she the daughter of Henry Cox, of
Mulgoa. The original William Cox, who
came to Australia in ISOI, was paymaster
in the old New South Wales Rum-selling
Corps. On leaving that honorable and
strong-breathed regiment, he contracted with
Governor Macquarie to build the road across
the Blue Mountains, and did the work in a
fair to middling fashion.
The N.S.W. politician who has the worst
luck of all just now is Wood, M.L.A. Almost
the only language he has been accustomed to
use in the House is language that Speaker
Willis objects to, and his fluency has been to
a great extent turned off at the meter. Wood
is a sort of shipwrecked mariner adrift on
an ocean of undrinkable vocabulary.
The S.A. Labor party has lost a strenuous
worker in A. F. Block, who died last week
at the early age of 33. He held several im-
portant offices in connection with the Trades
Hall, and was secretary of the State branch
of the Federated Agricultural Implement
Makers' Association. Also, he hustled like a
man and a brother in the Labor cause gener-
ally, and left a good name behind him.
The “unearned increment” tax of S.A.
Treasurer Vaughan, if it had been passed
by the Legislative Council, would have smit-
ten one gentlemen who is about to sell city
property in Adelaide. This is Ruthven
Smith, a wealthy absentee, whose uncle in
1836 bought three acres facing Bundle and
Grote streets for £1 apiece. The uncle be-
queathed this dirt to the present holder, and
the Federal land tax is inducing him to sell
the greater portion. It is a moderate esti-
mate to put down the value of the three
blocks at £150,000.
“Bathurstian”:—
•h H. Stewart, of Mount Pleasant, Bathurst
(N.S.W.), who was presented with an address by his
tenants, on his birthday last week, is a marvellous
old citizen. He is 86, yet he may be seen any day
cantonng about on a. lively-looking cob. A month
or so ago the animal fell with him and broke his
arm; it didn’t seem to affect his vitality. Every
year lie goes fly-fishing to M.L., sometimes with a
friend, but more often by himself. Local rumor
avers that he _ has never taken a sleeping compart-
ment in his life. He regards such luxuries as lit
onfy for weaklings and sybarites. His father was
the old British General who was Acting-Governor of
N. S. Wales for a dozen days, and between them they
jived in as many reigns, probably, as any pair in the
Commonwealth.
By the Oldest Inhabitant:—
All the Sydney dailies mentioned Fred Lassetter,
recently dead and buried in his 83rd year, as being
the son of Rev. Matt Lassetter, a Methodist minister.
As a matter of fact, Matt Lassetter was a local
preacher in South London before 1832, in which year
he left for Sydney with his wife and the boy Fred.
It was not until 1835 that he applied for admission
to the ministry, by which time he had a wife and
four children. He did not wait for a “call,” but
entered into business, said business, I think, being
that of a pastrycook and confectioner. Towards the
end of the ’SO’s Matt Lassetter removed to Van
Diemen’s Land with his family, and took up a
small farm at Longford. His wife died, and he
shifted to Launceston, where he opened a school.
Soon after that he moved on to America, leaving
Fred to paddle his own canoe, and Fred proved a
very good navigator.
Am°ng the recently dead is Richard Grice,
ot Melbourne, who was connected with the
Purves and Levy clans, and one or two
other notable social sets. He was an
ancient “sport,” and a strenuous follower of
hounds and race horses. His name will be
missed from the list of committeemen and
from V.R.C. programmes. Tradition says
that he nearly won a Melbourne Cup with
a horse named Hova. The late Mr. Grice
was born in the building now occupied by the
Deutscher Turn Verein in East Melbourne
He married a Miss Currie, after whom he
christened his Berwick estate Eirruc. At
the picturesque Berwick cemetery he was
buried, and several racing identities—Byron
Moore among them—went to the funeral.
P r ° f - Walter Thos. Mills, of Milwaukee,
U.S.A., the little old chap with the snowy
side-levers, recently lecturing in Maoriland,
was pen-pictured by Upton Sinclair in “The
Jungle,” the sensational yaller-press fiction
of the year. Sinclair made Jurgis, the saved
soul, meet, among other Socialist leaders, “a
man who. was known in the party as the
‘Little Giant.’ The Lord had used up so
much material in the making of his head
that there had not been enough to complete
his legs; but he got about on the platform,
and when he shook his raven whiskers, the
pillars of Capitalism rocked. He had writ-
ten a veritable encyclopaedia upon the sub-
.leot. a book that was nearly as big as him-
self.
Concerning a brick :
Manchester (Eng.) papers tell of the presentation
to John Redmond of a brick taken from the cottage
in which dwelt John Mitchel, during his period of
transportation in Van Diemen’s Land. Senator Long
made the presentation, and expressed a hope that
Redmond would find the article handy as a paper-
weight for use m the restored Irish Parliament.
Mitchel returned to Ireland after serving his term of
banishment, and in 1875 was elected unopposed as
member for Tipperary. He was declared ineligible,
but a month later the same constituency returned
him a second time, with a majority of over 2500 his
opponent polling only 746 votes. Again Mitchel
was disqualified, and the opponent with the micro-
scopic minority got the seat. Then the flames of
dissatisfaction went up like a burning oil store, but
within a few days Mitchel died and the trouble
unavoidably fizzled out.
“Vagabond” makes a few cuss remarks;—
The Maoriland Workek recently loaded every line
and page of a whole issue up to the muzzle with
anti-militarism.” It parades photos, of the two
louts who went to gaol rather than to drill, and re-
quests readers—in fat black type, over the picture
of one of them taken in an Ajax-defying-the-Income-
Tax attitude—to “Honor the Fight He Made.” I
hope the hero jumps the Worker for damages and
defamation of character for insinuating that he’d
fight anything . except his dinner. One writer fires
some deadly volleys of verse, exhorting M.L. to
“Let her people triumph, let her people be free.”
Very good. If she wants to triumph, let ’er
triumph. P’raps the poet will explain how she’s
going to carry out the programme if some objection-
able foreigners come along and poke brutal bavonets
in her carcase. She might tell ’em to g’away, that
she was busy triumphing and letting her people be
free, and if they took no notice she could treat them
with dignified contempt, though it is a bit difficult
to be dignified when the other chap’s chasing vou
round at the business-end of a gun. What a pity
the Worker can’t run a Jap edition, and persuade
Japan that she also ought to triumph and let ’er be
free, and that the way to do it was to refuse to
learn the goose-step and which end to poke the car-
tridge in. Then there might be a better outlook for
the Worker programme.
L D. WILSON M.L.C., South Australians
Minister of Industry, whose pertinent re-
marks re weating and other industrial
troubles annoy the local House of Rich
Landlords.
William Perry was an Official Assignee
at Sydney in 1849, and was the first secre-
tary to the A.M.P. Society. With the aid
of Parson Walsh, Thomas Mort, Thomas
Holt and Charles Lowe, he founded the now
big Australian life office. It is understood
that Mr. Perry’s policy was the first issued
and among the first paid, as he died in
1854. He left a widow, a daughter of Rev.
W. W. Simpson, M.A., of Dapto, Illawarra,
who died on Tuesday, August 29, at her
residence, Roseneath, Albion, near Bris-
bane. She was aged 86 years.
Passed out at the age of 61, Thomas Lux-
ton, a Victorian personality of shaggy ex-
terior. Thomas arrived in Victoria in ’53,
and graduated in finance on the Stock Ex-
changes of Bendigo, Ballarat and Mel-
bourne. He acquired much cash in various
ventures, and was the controlling force in
the amalgamated businesses of J. McEwan
and McLean Bros, and Rigg. As a public man,
Luxton was bogged among a multiplicity of
interests. He was concerned in all sorts of
things, from school treats to jockey, clubs,
ana found time to spend 20 years in the
P’ran council, as well as seven or eight
years in the House of Fat. Politically, how-
ever, he was a person of little importance.
He sought the unhappy mean between Tory
inertia and “Liberal” inaction, and was
generally successful in his quest.
William Gilbert Marsh, of Adelaide, who
is about to retire from active sky-pilotage,
in the Anglican denomination, has it to his
debit that he was the first secretary of Mel-
bourne Y.M.C.A., and held the billet for 15
years. Then he took to the Church, and
toiled for another 15 years in the vineyard of
St. Luke’s, Adelaide. He is of United
States origin, and still gives out the hymn
through his nose to some extent—at least,
certain hypercritical folk so allege.
A “moving picture” sets “Screen” off on
the trail:—
The Australian biograph of “The Lady’’ Outlaw
interests me rather more than any other. It is sup-
posed to be founded on John Batman, the Victorian
pioneer. There is a tradition that Batman married
a woman outlaw, whom he captured in Tasmania. I
have been raking up, but cannot discover the slight-
est foundation for the story. The Batmans had eight
fine children; one daughter married Weire, after-
wards town clerk of Geelong. Can anybody explain
how the outlaw legend arose? Surely it must be
legend! According to the biograph, excellently
got up in Sydney by Rolfe, so long associated with
Dampier, the lady was of good family in England.
Her lover was transported, and went through some
Rufus Dawes kind of experiences in Tasmania. She
went there to seek him, and was informed that he
had died through the cruelty of Elton, his employer.
Thereupon she takes to bushranging, as leader of a
convict gang, and is just going to shoot Elton when
she finds that her lover is alive, and with a wife.
More agony! Here Batman comes in, under the
name of Dashwood, and, after a desperate chase, cap-
tures her. Of course, it winds up with the customary
cuddle of the biograph. But I don’t believe a flick
of it.
Three ex-Melbournians are giving Aus-
tralia a poor advt. in the City of Fog. They
are Mrs. Turner, clairvoyante, who could
not see clearly enough to discern detective
Macmanamny when she met him, with dis-
astrous results to her pocket; “Pastor” Ab-
bott, matrimonial agent; and Charles Bailey,
the notorious pseudo-medium. They are
showing on Sundays at Caxton Hall, on the
silver-coin admission racket, and they have
struck trouble in Wm. Marriott and Lad-
broke Black. Marriott tackled the trio, and
heaved at Bailey a challenge, which that
dealer in spirits has carefully side-stepped.
He offered £lOO if Bailey, being locked in a
cage in the middle of the Caxton Hall or anv
other public hall, could by occult mean's
transfer a marked coin or other small article
from a few feet outside the cage to its in-
terior. But though the spirits will turn
themselves into a parcels express when it’s a
matter of bringing jewels, etc., all the way
from Calcutta to Melbourne, Bailey isn’t
prepared to trust them with an insignificant
job like this.
Lord Denman has established one record
for Australia, anyhow. Last Friday he
rode over the big fences on Melbourne Show
Ground, being the first Governor-General to
perform the feat. The new potentate’s
nerve must be all right. The average Eng-
lish horseman, unaccustomed to tall and
unbreakable timber, either in the hunting
field or on steeplechase courses, shies
affrightedly at such obstacles as Denmau
surmounted.
Two ancient names appear among the
prospective applicants at the Victorian State
elections. Ex-Senator Trenwith will try to
secure the North Gippsland seat of Laborite
McLachlan, and James Mirams, of the
Brolly* wants to battle for Labor in opposi-
tion to “Talma” Weedon. Talma repre-
sents East Melbourne, and, despite his gen-
eral vacuity, will be diflicult to shift.
Mirams* too, is a very old man these days,
and isn’t quite the shifter he was.
C. F. Folland, just dead in Adelaide, was
an unushal veteran. He went on the land,
was a local preacher, and wrote copiously
to the papers. All that is commonplace in
S.A. But Folland, at the age of 60, turned
into a fighting Agnostic ; and after that he
treated the Biblical three-score-and-ten limit
with contempt, and lived gaily to the age of
over 97. He was one of the few remaining
people anywhere who were alive before
Waterloo; that disturbance occurred on the
first anniversary of his birth. He was thus
grown up when South Australia was founded.
He reached Adelaide when that village was
(wo years old, and used to hunt all kinds of
game with the natives, both game
and natives being then abundant within
a mile or two of the G.P.O. He
had a shot at law, printing, and painting, and
was ruined by the dishonoring of Governor
Gawler’s official drafts, before he started to
put in 68 years on a farm. And he leaves
97 descendants.
“Oxonian,” his Vindication :
The recently-appointed Melbourne Professor of Eng-
lish is described (B. 24/8/’ll) as a “gentleman from
Aberdeen,” the product of a “fifth-rate British Uni-
versity.” Now, Mr. Wallace was not chosen on the
strength of his Aberdeen degree alone. He is also a
graduate of Oxford, where he attended the lectures of
Professors Raleigh, Napier, Wright and De Selin-
court, and received private instruction from Ur.
Sweet. Also, he took a first-class in the Honor
School of English in 1907. All who know anything
of University work will realise that Mr. Wallace’s
wider experience is a factor that must have weighed
heavily with the selection committee. Mr. Murdoch
has presumably studied only under Professor Morris,
and the study of English has progressed greatly
since his time; Mr. Wallace is familiar with the
methods of some of the most eminent English
scholars now living, some of whom, as, for instance,
Sweet and Napier, have European reputations.
JUDGE DENNISTON, OF MAORILAND.
The Bulletin’s Oldest Inhabitant writes :
The will of Mrs. Macarthur Onslow, of Camden
Park (N.S.W.), who died in England recently, has
been probated at £200,000. She was the daughter
of James Macarthur, the only one of John
Macarthur’s four sons who had issue, and she was
an only child. She married Captain Onslow, a re-
tired R.N. man, who died in 1882, leaving five sons
and two daughters. Mrs. Macarthur Onslow was in
her 70th year. In 1899 the Camden Park estate
was formed into a limited liability company (not
including the homestead), the authorised capital
being £150.000. The capital subscribed (in 1904)
was £104,007, in £1 shares; 100.000 of the shares
being fully paid-up. There were 10 shareholders.
ROYAL PROGRESS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Perhaps,” said the High Commissioner, “his
Ma.iesty is the most highly and most wisely-trained
and most widely-experienced Sovereign who ever sat
on Britain’s throne.”— Cable.
So kings go out, and kings come in,
And still in grace and wisdom rise,
Mach greater, grander than his kin,
More learned, more wonderful and wise.
The king that died perfection seemed,
By word of mouth and praise of pen.
The newer king with splendor gleamed.
Such wit and virtue were undreamed
By simple, trusting subjects when
His father was the best of men.
So good begins, but better things
Are yet to come. ’Tis Heaven’s plan,
By so improving English kings,
To give us soon the Superman.
But here emotions traitorous
And melancholy feelings throng:
If kings go on perfecting thus,
’Tis quite ridiculous in us,
And manifestly very wrong,
To hope that one will linger long!
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


m
\r
CS»
m
>»«»
'in*
'-v
G
■'-'
Y
1
fci
'-X
9 9
“Hullo! Is that your Gowing Suit? How much?
“Only Three Guineas, and they send all over Australia carriage free!
You drop them a postcard, and they’ll send you patterns and
self-measurement form.
GOWING
486, 488 and 490 George Street; and 7,9, 11, 13, 15 and 17 Royal Arcade, SYDNEY.


WORTHINGTON POMPS
For
ALL SERVICES.
m ENGINES and PLANTS, Oil ENGINES, CONDENSING APPARATUS.
apply 32-34 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
ORE BUYERS.
Cash Advances Made Against Consignments.
CORRESPONDENCE SOLICITED.
EDWARDS’ ORE REDUCTION COMPANY,
HEAD OFFICE: SEBASTOPOL, BALLARAT.
Telephone N 0. —283 Cable Address : ** PYRITIC,” BALLARAT^^^^
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
All the States now open their financial
year on July 1 ; hence only two months have thus
far run. Under these circumstances the available
revenue figures don’t mean much ; but, so far as
they go, they are highly satisfactory. On the other
hand, the expenditure figures fill the atmosphere with
the drinky odor of Boom. In N. S. Wales the Labor
party was supposed to represent financial sanity;
but, having reached office, it has taken the
easy way of drift. The two months’ revenue
amounted to £2,185,021, or £56,332 more
than the receipts for the corresponding one-
sixth of the previous year; the expenditure was
£2,262,456, or £123,256 more than the figures at
this time last year. And that is not the worst
feature; the “other expenditure”—public works,
closer settlement, railway loan and general loan —
has run to £1,072,691, or at the appalling rate of
nearly £6,500,000 a year. The public works and
closer settlement funds are certainly provided to
some extent out of revenue and so-called revenue,
the so-called revenue being derived from the sale of
public lands; but, even apart from those items, the
party which was supposed to favor only public
works that would return interest and a moderate
sinking fund, is borrowing and spending at the rate
of just upon £5,000,000 a year—more, that is, than
any of the Governments whose extravagance the
party hitherto attacked. Such a thing as a sinking
fund is never mentioned nowadays. The whole busi-
ness amounts to a vast system of bribery: one party
is merely outbidding the other, and the price will
have to be paid by the fools who apparently think
they are getting it all for nothing.
Victoria, as usual, furnishes no progress figures as
to expenditure out of either revenue or loans. Its
revenue figures for the two months are £1,354,446,
as against £1,387,501. The shrinkage is wholly due
to smaller Commonwealth payments. State revenue
proper is £45,797 in excess of the previous year’s.
Railway revenue is soaring—another instance of the
dreadful effects of the Commonwealth’s gentle hint
to the land monopolist to move on. Queensland has
again taken the bit between its teeth, and is rushing
down the steep place leading to the old dry creek
that is strewn with the bones of the boom wrecks
of the ’9o’s. Its loan expenditure for two months
reached £436,443, or at rate of over £2,500,000 a
year for a mere handful of 604,000 people. N. S.
Wales had, according to the census, 1,648,210
people; so Queensland’s insanity is rather worse, on
figures, than Mother’s is. Its ordinary revenue for
two months was £898,334, as against £774,478 in
the corresponding fragment of 1909-10, and its ex-
penditure (apart from interest, not yet charged) was
£545,099, as against £442,085. Westralia started
the financial year with a so-called surplus of £13,302.
At the end of July the alleged surplus was turned
into a deficit of £46,096 ; and at the end of August
the disgrace had grown to £78,227. The branch of
the trouble in which Cohen is most interested isn’t
so much as mentioned. S. Australia preserves a pro-
found silence; and Tasmania merely issues a few
revenue figures that are so far of no significance at
all.
* * * *
Tas. Treasurer Lewis reports that he re-
ceived £970,092 for the financial year ended June 30,
and spent £1,016,963, thus overshooting the con-
stable by £46,871. As he started the year with a
floating deficiency of £51,271, his total leeway
amounts to £98,142. As it is expected that the
255. per capita return from the Commonwealth will
this year approximate £240,000 ( £lO,OOO increase
on last year’s receipts from the Commonwealth) ;
that the land tax will return £BO,OOO (increase
£15,000) ; income taxes £135,000 (increase of
£20,000); and interest on transferred properties
£30,000, the Treasurer reckons he can spend at least
£50,000 more than he spent last year, and still
wind up with no worse deficiency than his present
£98,142. The £50,000 is to be cut up thus: In-
creased interest payable, £21,000; increased railway
expenditure (mostly on repairs and wages), £15,000 ;
education, £4000; gaols and police, £2000; hospi-
tals and charities, £4000; and sundries, £4OOO.
As an election is looming up on the adjacent horizon,
it was not expected that the Tory administration
would promulgate any other sort of policy. The
burden of Treasurer Lewis’s song is: “We have
reached the limit of taxation; let there be peace,
blessed peace, and let the deficit stay on the
premises if it wants to!” So it is proposed to con-
tinue the old shiftless methods of the past: the de-
lightful policy of drift which leadeth to depopula-
tion. An illuminating passage in Treasurer Lewis’s
hopelessly drab statement is the announcement that
£5OO is to be voted for assisted immigration. As
Tassie is already failing to retain her natural in-
crease, the idea of assisting immigrants, even to the
funny little extent mentioned, is positively dazzling.
* * * *
Tho Maoriland State Land Bank, whose
deficit to begin with was due to preliminary ex-
penses and loss on loan flotations: —
Loss on Loan
March, Profits. Flotations. Deficit.
1900 .. £14,073 £28,142 £107,644
1901 .. 20,325 9,889 97,208
1902 .. 29,452 67,756
1903 .. 24,907 43,953 86,802
1904 .. 26,561 20,585 80,826
1905 .. 34,454 46,372
1906 .. 34,048 12,324
Reserves.
1907 . 44,972 32,648
1908 .. 48,449 . ■ 81,097
Premiums Received.
1909 .. 60,822 3,014 144,933
Loss.
1910 .. 41,832 6,439 180,326
1911 .. 60,441 -- 240,767
This very successful institution used to be officially
known as the Government Advances to Settlers
Office; but a couple of years ago it was made a
branch of a new concern —the State-Guaranteed Ad-
vances Office, which controls the financial props
offered to “settlers,” “workers,” and “local authori-
ties.” This Settlers Branch is, however, the senior
partner in the business, and finances the Workers
Branch. But behind the senior partner is the Public
Trustee, who represents the State which supplies
the money—borrowed money, of course, for we are
talking about Maoriland at present. It is a pretty
good indication of the rottenness of the Rickety
country’s financial methods, that to provide for the
repayment of the Public Trustee a so-called sinking
fund has been established, which is no more a sink-
ing fund than Joe Ward is a Dreadnought. This
bogus sinking fund consists “of a sum to be paid
in each financial year out of the Advances Account
...equal to 1 p.c. of the total moneys raised for
the purpose of the branch, and then outstanding.”
So, if the branch has borrowed £1,000,000 alto-
gether, it must pay £lO,OOO a year into this fraud;
but it doesn’t have to pay it in out of profits—it
simply has to pay it in out of the borrowed money.
If it hasn’t got that much borrowed money left in
the bag, then it may borrow some more; and if it
can’t borrow any more, then the precious “sinking
fund” can look after itself. Of course the financial
bosses of the office don’t show the “sinking fund”
among the reserves. On one side they just show so
much money borrowed, and on the other side the
“sinking fund” is among the assets into which the
loans have been put. It is such a ridiculous misuse
of a term that it ought to be dropped ; otherwise,
some day, when Maoriland may be honest enough to
have a real sinking fund, it may find it impossible
to get Bull Cohen to believe that the thing is the
genuine article.
The real reserves are shown in the table; and
they are growing so very nicely that there is no
need to offer any gilded ha’pennies. A solid ad-
dition of £60,441 to the reserve funds in 12
months is good enough to stand on its own merits.
Certainly, risks have increased considerably; and
the total to provide for contingencies is not a penny
more than it should be. This shows the risks in
force and some other details: —
Expenses
Cost of p.c. of
Advances Manage- Mortgages.
Outstanding. ment. s. d.
1900 .. £1,747,329 £7,267 8 4
1901 .. 2,131,100 6,869 6 5
1902 .. 2,368,317 7,696 6 5
1903 .. 2,690,543 7,316 5 8
1904 .. 2,795,849 7,439 5 4
1905 .. 2,753,182 6,834 4 11
1906 .. 3,125,069 7,989 5 1'
1907 .. 3,551,876 8,453 4 9
1908 .. 4,180,616 12,792 6 1
1909 .. 5,114,300 15,759 6 2
1910 .. 5,662,973 14,987 5 4
1911 .. 6,140,984 17,929 ■ 5 10
The expenses are still very moderate; they include
the fees paid to the Valuation Department for its
services. The actual management exes, were 3s. p.c.
on capital employed, and that represents no advance
on the very slim figure of the nrevious year. It all
amounts to this. The Maoriland settler is getting ac-
commodation at cost price—that is, the price at which
the most solvent entity can borrow in large sums —
plus a shade over I p.c. for exes., and a shade under 1
p.c. for contingencies. Thus, the poor little settler,
out of whom the private Cohen used to bite 7J or
8 p.c. interest, now has to pay only lj p.c. more
for his small lot than the State itself can negotiate
a big loan for. It is a dreadful thing, this Socialism,
and frightfully prejudicial to various interests —
especially the interests that run from 7 to 20 p.c.
As mentioned above, though £60,441 was put by
last year, the reserves are no bigger than they
ought to be. There is £6,140,984 out on mortgage;
and the reserves total £240,767. Thus, if some-
thing bad happened to Maoriland —and it is a place
that something bad might easily happen to—and the
bank had a lot of its securities thrown on its hands,
and realised only £4 p.c. less than it has lent upon
them, the whole of the reserves would be exhausted,
and the bank would have to hold out its hat to the
State, just as the private Bank of N.Z. did a few
years ago. But while that wasn’t regarded as a
very dreadful thing for the B.N.Z. to do, and nobody
has quoted it as proof that Private Enterprise is a
failure, a State bank’s repetition of the performance
would be quoted for ever and ever as full proof that
Socialism is an incompetent blunderer. So Maori-
land had better not let its eye rest too long on that
£60,441 of profit; it had far better consider the
risks that run side by side with £6,140,984 of ad-
vances, and go on building its reserves very much
higher yet.
* • * *
Maoriland State Bank—Advances to
Workers Department
Advances
Mnr., Outstanding. Loss. Deficit.
1907 .. £5,490 £434 £434
1908 .. 203,143 228 662
Profit. Reserves.
1909 .. 482,436 3757 3095
£1424 Loan Expenses written off .. 1671
1910 .. 818,341 1396 3067
£952 Loan Expenses written off .. 2115
1911 .. 1,177,959 6864 8979
This is a branch of what is officially known as the
State-Guaranteed Advances Office. The original
authority was given by the Advances to Workers
Act of 1906; but various changes have since been
made, including a recent and valuable one, whereby
power is given to the Board to make advances for
a shorter term than the originally-prescribed 364
years. No doubt many men foolishly undertake to
pay off a debt with a rapidity that is beyond them;
but when a Board is told, “You must not lend
money for less than 36i years,” then it often has to
sit down and say, “Very well; in that case we can’t
lend at all.” A mining town, for instance, though
flourishing to-day, will very likely be a mere harbor
for gohannas and moas and wallabies and other
reptiles 25 years hence. And there are a good many
other towns which one wouldn’t like to swear would
be of much account 361 years hence. That this
home-providery was needed is best shown by the
swift growth of its advances. That growth is very
gratifying, of course, to everybody except the land-
lord who has been extracting 15s. a week for the
use of his wooden rabbit-hutch; but the swiftness
has its perils. When trouble strikes a country, as
it struck Victoria on the bursting of the land boom,
that mortgage co. or building society mostly fares
worst which has made the biggest recent advances,
The old advances —the ones in connection with, which
many payments of instalment money have been made
—don’t worry the liquidator. In two years this
office has added £695,523 to its advances; and that
means that it has made more than £700,000 of new
advances. Yet it has only increased its reserves by
£ 5884; and £ 5884 wouldn’t go very far in pro-
tecting £700,000 of advances if the securities were
hit by some whirlwind. So the management’s job
is to move ahead very cautiously, keep a firm hand
on the expenses, resist the inevitable squeeze for
more liberal terms, and Dile up a reserve as fast as
possible. Though Maoriland hasn’t lately been hit
by any whirlwind worth mentioning, in this office’s
Settlers Branch “19 freehold and 13 leasehold securi-
ties have for various reasons been realised by the
Department during its existence. This year, losses
to the extent of £53 have been made. There are,
moreover,'"on the Department’s hands two securities
which are not satisfactory. At present they are
leased at a nominal rental, awaiting a favorable op-
portunity for realisation.” That is a danger signal,
hoisted up ahead of both branches. The £1,177,959
of outstanding loans is represented by 4282 mort-
gages ; the past year’s average advance on freehold
was £323, and bn leasehold £194. Of course, in
many instances the borrowers have themselves
thrown in a pretty big slice of the cost; and the
bigger the slice the less, of course, the Department s
worry.
» * * *
Finney, Isles and Co., Ltd., retail softgoods
people chiefly, of Brisbane: —
Towards
Julv Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
1904.. £17,566
1905.. £4,179 6 per cent. = £1768 £2,411 15,155
1906.. 5,323 6 „ „ 1909 3,414 11,741
1907.. 9,457 6 „ „ 2189 7,268 4,473
Reserves.
1908.. 12,767 6 „ „ 3929 8,838 4,365
1909.. 14,898 6 ~ ~ 3983 10,915 15,280
Provided for depreciation, £3OOO .. 12,280
1910.. 11.694 6 per cent. = 4037 7,657 19,937
1911.. *21,004 8 ~ ~ 6815 14,189 34,126
*Less something to be absorbed by an em-
ployees’ bonus fund. There may also be a
few pounds of share premiums included in
the total.
That is as close as The Bulletin can get to it on the
data available. Things, fortunately, promise to be
made clearer in the future. The position hitherto has
been that the Finney estate has had a lot of money
in the business, and on account of that liability, the
co.’s articles have contained provisions which have
caused many investors to stand off the stock ; also,
no balance-sheet has been published. When Thomas
Finney died, the junior partners naturally wanted
to hang on to the business, but evidently, like most
junior partners, they hadn’t got the capital to buy
the big man’s interest. In such a case, if the big
man’s representatives have a reasonable amount of
discretion and common sense, they don’t force a
liquidation sale; and they didn’t here. They
arranged to leave their money in the business as a
loan provided (1) the other partners didn’t draw
their divs., but put them into capital, and (2) the
loan was gradually paid off. The new concern had
good commercial and financial control; it struck out
vigorously just when Queensland was ready to repay
enterprise handsomely ; and. on the figures available,
the co. has moved forward rapidly. Nevertheless, if
profits were computed in the ordinary way, there
wouldn’t be as much difference between the last
two years’ figures as the table shows. The 1910
figures have been diminished by some unspecified
amounts written off and by others that have been
applied to a bonus fund ; while the 1911 bonus has
yet to come off the total for that year. If the net
profit is thus and otherwise reduced to £19,500
and it will probably be about that —the result will
still be very excellent. The dividend has been com-
puted on the capital as at the end of the year (July
31). On the total amount, the net profit (say
£20,000) was at the rate of over 22} p.c. ; and as
the increased div. is only 8 p.c., a very fine ad-
dition is made to reserves. And those reserves ap-
pear to be the real thing, inasmuch as there is now
no goodwill or other paper entry on the other side of
the balance-sheet.
This shows a few more details: —
1905. 1909. 1910. 3911.
Capital .. .. £29,462 £66,392 £67,293 £85,193
Debt to Finney’s .. 42,704 30,507 27,458 24,407
Other liabilities .. 60,962 111,674 133,795 126,898
Stock 60,878 82,106 59,119 100,601
Real property .. 7,665 58,266 84,332 87,671
Book debts.. .. 25,550 43,876 45,122 51,631
Other assets .. .. 25,648 43,588 34,649 31,535
It was mentioned above that the amount shown as
profit in the first table might contain .a few pounds
of share premium. Twelve months ago the Board
decided to issue 25,000 shares at a premium of Is.,
and apparently if there was anything left over after
paying the expenses of that issue, it was passed to
Profit and Loss. Now, partly to get rid of the
Finney liability, it is proposed to issue 65,000
shares at a premium of 2s. The co. certainly needs
more capital; for its liabilities on July 31 were
£151,305, including £41,240 of debentures, £24,407
of Finney money, and £41,590 of property mort-
gages. No doubt the bulk of this is cheap money ;
but while : it exists shareholders have only a second
mortgage on assets and profits, and second mort-
gages are cold things when misfortune looks in.
As security for the new issue, there is not only the
highly profitable business and the stock and book
debts, but property valued at about £37,000, over
and above the mortgage. The issue is, of course, not
preferential, so the other capital shares in the securi-
ties mentioned. The new issue is large; but it has
to be remembered that the original share capital was
ridiculously small, due to the special circumstances
under which the co. was launched. Also, since it
was launched, the co. has spent over £75,000 on
premises, the co.’s freehold replacing a short-term
leasehold—always an unsatisfactory and dangerous
tenure for a co. with an attractive name and a valu-
able connection. Since it started seven years ago,
the co. has wiped out goodwill items of £16,235,
besides flotation expenses, and has built up a reserve
of £34,126. Of its total profits it has divided less
than 32 p.c. ; and a co. which starts off with a re-
cord like that deserves to have bouquets thrown at
it. There are, of course, circumstances which can’t
be tested ; for instance, the stock valuation and the
book debts have to be taken on trust. Also, the co.
can’t reasonably expect to show the sarne rate of
profit on its new and proposed capital as it could on
its old capital, because much of the new money is
represented by city property, and the rest of it pays
off debt which wasn’t costing more than perhaps
4-j p.c. But, given all that in, the position has be-
come much sounder, and the new issue will make it
sounder still. <\
Pitt, Son and Badgery, Ltd.(Sydne|), station-
produce salesmen, etc.: —
Written Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. Off. serves.
1900.. £6,555 Nil £6,555 £7,500
1901.. 5,569 Nil 5,569 7,500
1902.. 12,299 Nil 12,299 7,500
1903.. 6,319 Nil 6,319 7,500
1904.. 6,438 5 per cent. =£2,500 11,438
1905.. 3,523 5 ~ ~ 2,500 • 12,461
1906.. 12,561 5 ~ ~ 2,500 7,500 15,022
1907.. 17,033 10 ~ „ 5,500 17,500 9,055
1908.. 8,277 10 ~ „ 5,500 11.832
1509.. 13,845 19 j, „ 10,500 -- 15,17(
Property written up, £lO,OOO .. .. 25,1/7
1910.. 19,859 *35 per cent. = 21,000 24,036
1911.. 17,509 23£ „ „ 17,500 24,045
There have been Pitts and Badgerys almost ever
since there have been sheep and cows in N. S. Wales,
so that when this co. was formed, in 1888, it took
over a couple of handy names and a profitable con-
nection. But that didn’t keep it out of difficulties;
in fact, the bigger one’s pastoral connection in the
early ’9o’s, the deeper one was likely to get into the
soup. Once this co. realised where it was, it didn’t,
however, try to persuade itself that it was anywhere
else; instead, it set to work steadily to get out, and
after that to empty the tureen and label it dangerous.
Part of the trouble, as usual, was that it had made
advances on securities which had dried up and blown
away; the other part was that much of the money
thus advanced belonged to other people—unreason-
able people who wanted their money back, no matter
what had happened. There was only one way to
honorably get out of the mess, and the co. took it:
it toiled on, and devoted the profits to the removal
of the old dead horse instead of scattering them
among the shareholders. Later on the prosperity of
the country gave the deserving co. a hand ; and by
1907 the directors reckoned that, in writing off a
final £17,500, they had got all their assets down to
bedrock. The last of the goodwill paper asset disap-
peared at the same time. Being thus out of the
soup, the co. proceeded to put itself as far as possible
out of the temptation to drop into the seductive
crockery again. This shows what happened (inci-
dentally it shows a few other things) :
1900. 1909. 1910. 1911.
Overdrafts ..£55,741 £43,896 £17,311 £29,272
Other liabilities .. 3,009 7,139 20,421 23,205
Advances, fore-
closures, etc. .. 87,087 34,744 35,303 41,459
Freeholds, etc. ... 10,718 94,218 104,465 123,813
Goodwill .. .. 25,000 Nil Nil Nil
Thus the capital and other funds which the co:
formerly put into advances it has sunk firmly in free-
holds; the latter item sorang from £10,718 in 1900
to £94,218 in 1909, and £123,813 in 1911. The
bulk of this is represented by city property—mainly
office premises for its own and tenants’ use, with
some recent additions in the shape of wool and pro-
duce stores and sale yards. Thus the co.’s capital
and reserves are wholly invested in freeholds, by far
the greater part of which may be regarded as a gilt-
edged security ; and the comparatively small amount
required to finance clients (“sundry debtors”) is
obtained by overdraft and otherwise. Whether un-
der adverse conditions the co. will be able to hold
its business without offering harassed clients the old
accommodation remains to be seen; if it can, it has
left four-fifths of its risks and troubles behind it.
Two years ago, having had a very good time, the
Board decided to nail down some of the profit by
transferring it to capital; so it paid a bonus of Is.
per share, and made a call at the same time. Next
vear, the same was done to the extent of 35.; this
year 2s. This last transaction will make the shares
17s. paid, leaving only 3s. to go. There are 100,000
of them.
Amalgamated Zinc (De Bavay’s), Ltd.:—
Written
Profits. Dividends. Off. Deficit.
£3,378
Reserves.
Mar., 1910 .. £32,194 Nil Nil 28 81ft
Sept., 1910 .. 44,253 Nil Nil 73069
June, 1911 .. 100,106 £75,000 Nil 98)575
De Bavay is a Melbourne brewery chemist, who took
a hand in solving the problem of the Broken Hill
zinc tailings. For about 18 years the B. H. cos.
mined sulphide ore, which contains up to 22 p.c.)
and occasionally more, zinc, and the object of their
concentration process was to eliminate that zinc
along with the other mullock. Certainly, zinc was
rather precious mullock, being worth anything up
to £3O per ton; but it wasn’t worth anything at
all so long as it was mixed with quartz, rhodonite,
etc., and it was worth considerably less than nothing
if it was mixed with the silver and lead, because the
silver and lead smelters imposed a fine if it was
present. Consequently huge Alps of the mullock,
that ought to have been precious but wasn’t, grew
up along the line of lode, and all sorts of scientists
poked their noses in and consumed much gas in
trying to solve the riddle. Exactly who solved it
hasn’t been decided yet, though various lawyers have
grown several inches fatter round the waist after
swallowing the fees that have been paid them to argue
things before Patents and other Courts. Three or
four of the scientists adopted the oil and acid pro-
cess, each with his own modifications; and De
Bavay was among the number. In this process acid
and oil (they mostly use eucalyptus oil nowadays)
are mixed with the sandy Alps, and the oil and
acid between them lift the zinc to the surface and
float it off —not pure zinc, of course, but from 42
to 48 p.c. metal.
The B. H. cos. had got rather tired of their
Alps, and they mostly sold them right out for very
little. For one thing they were not sure of the zinc
market. In the baby years of this century, when
zinc was first seriously talked about, the average
price for one six months got down below £l6 18s. ;
and, though it moved up again, in 1908, when De
Bavay’s people began to look around, it was down be-
low £l9 10s. To-daythe metal is worth £27 12s. 6d.
Under the co.’s most important contract the mining
co. shares in the extra profits with this co. ; but,
though it doesn’t thus get the whole hog, this co.’s
share of the animal is very fat, as the table shows.
In nine months the co. has made a profit of
£100,106 on its capital of £500,000 (and there is
a lot of water in that £500,000). And unless
something sudden happens to the zinc market, there
will be a big “surplus” to be added to next half-
year’s profit. The usual practice is to pay finally
for the zinc concentrates delivered in one half-year
at the price averaged in the following half-year.
For book-keeping purposes the metal delivered be-
tween January 1 and June 30 was valued at £22;
but, as remarked just now, the present price is
£27 12s. 6d. (June average was £24 9s. 7d. ;
July, £24 13s. lOd.; August, £26 11s. 2d.) If
the average for this half-year works out at £25 per
ton, then the profit for the past nine months, in-
stead of being £100,106, will be just upon £35,000
more than that. Unfortunately, the market that can
run up swiftly from £22 to £27 can run down just
as swiftly. The outlook is certainly alleged to be
excellent; and so, by the way, was the outlook for
copper when that metal soared up to £llO in 1907.
(In these days it refuses to go up to £58.) The
zinc or spelter market very largely depends upon a
“convention” or honorable understanding among
European smelters ; and though there is no sign of
a crack at present, such foundations are not the
best conceivable. It isn’t possible to arrive at the
price at which it would no longer pay the co. to
produce spelter, because it has got some Alps on
better terms than others; but the figures already
printed show, anyhow, the tremendous importance
of the rackety spelter market to this co.
Equity Trustees, Executors and Agency Co.
(Melbourne):— _ „
v To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Dec., 1903.. £1744 8 p.c. = £lOOO £744 £9,876
June, 1904.. 3036 12 „ „ 1500 1536 11,412
Dec., 1904.. 2435 8 ~ ~ 1000 1435 12,847
June, 1905.. 3775 12 „ ~ 1500 2275 15,122
Dec., 1905.. 3225 8 ~ ~ 1000 2225 17,347
June, 1906.. 2616 12 „ „ 1500 1116 18,463
Dec., 1906.. 2314 8 „ ~ 1000 1314 19,777
June, 1907.. 3301 12 „ „ 1500 1801 21,578
Dec., 1907.. 1994 8,, ~ 1000 994 22,572
June, 1908.. 1256 12 „ ~ 1500 22,328
Dec., 1908.. 2585 8 ~ „ 1000 1585 23,913
June, 1909.. 2170 12 „ ~ 1500 670 24,583
Dec., 1909 .. 3214 10 ~ ~ 1250 1964 26,547
June, 1910.. 2589 10 ~ ~ 1250 1339 27,886
Dec., 1910.. 2279 10 „ ~ 1250 1029 28,915
June, 1911 .. 1832 10 „ „ 1250 582 29,497
A bonus of £253 to the staff is deducted from the
half-year’s profits. The co. doesn’t give much infor-
mation about itself; but wherever you dig you get
good results. It has no debts whatever. On the
other side, its assets are a good lot. The capital is
£25,000, and all of that, and £8262 besides, is
represented by cash and public securities; most of
the balance of the reserves is invested in freehold
premises. In 10 years the co. has made this pro-
greSS:“ 1901. 1911.
Liquid assets .. .. £lO,OOO £33,262
Other assets .. .. 23,070 22,762
Liabilities . . . . 1,201 Nil
Thus it has practically the same total of non-liquid
assets as it had 10 years ago, while it has added no
less than £24,463 to its surplus of liquid assets.
That is to say, after paying a dividend of 10 p.c.
p.a., it has in 10 years accumulated an amount equal
practically to the paid capital—a very fine perform-
ance indeed. This accumulation of reserves, invested
in safe securities, is just about as good a guarantee
as one can have that divs. will be maintained at
somewhere about their present level. A 4 p.c. return
on the funds would, in fact, provide of itself an 8 p.c.
div. No doubt there are some risks; the co., for
instance, might misread a will or other instructions,
or misconstrue its powers, and have to part up, like
one or two other trustee cos. did a few years agfl.
But, given careful management, the risk isn’t a very
big one; and, as this co. always makes a feature of
having three or four front-rank lawyers on the
Board, it presumably is in even less than the average
danger of falling into an awkward hole and hurting
either itself or its clients.
* * * *
The Newcastle and Hunter River Steamship
Co. (N.S.W.): —
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Dec., 1904.. £3092 6 p.c. = £3OOO £92 £B,/93
June, 1905.. 2960 6 „ „ 3000
Dec., 1905.. 3385 6„ „ 3000 385 9,138
June, 1906.. 3053 6 „ „ 3000 53 9,191
Dec., 1906.. 5128 6„ „ 3000 2128 11.319
June, 1907.. 6348 6„ „ 3000 3348 14,66.
Dec., 1907.. 3247 6 „ „ 3000 247 14,914
r mno /1831 6 ~ ~ 30001 _ n,245
June, 1908.. | written off, £25,00 /
Dec., 1908.. 3271 6 p.c. = 3000 271 11,516
June, 1909.. 2829 6 „ „ 3000
Dec., 1909.. 3323 6 „ „ 3000 323 11,668
June, 1910.. 2798 6 „ „ 3000 77
Dec., 1910.. 4441 6„ „ 3000 1441 *2,90/
June, 1911.. 2718 6 „ „ 3000
The published accounts can’t be accused of being
garrulous. A shipping co. naturally has most 01
funds in ships, and ships wear out like boots, P
ence, and other inventions, and have to be paten ,
and, finally, renlaced. Boards of directors are
all possessed of equally good eyesight, and semie ~
them can’t see decay where others observe it _ 9“
plainly; hence one lot may put aside out °fP , i
to provide for repair and replacement, a great
more than another lot. The trouble with this
good many other cos. is that you don t kn
much they do put aside. It may be a bit too •
in which case something more than the profits
above is really earned; or it may be a bit too mu ,


Skilled Organisation
Brings Success.
Expert management to-day accounts for
businesses quickly taking the lead, caus-
ing chagrin to competitors. The “live”
concern, ever ready to improve, pro-
gresses. Half-hearted, misguided methods
invariably bring failure. We’ll skilfully
and successfully work your company,
float your undertaking, and arrange for
subdivision and selling of your suburban
or country estate. We also act as Trus-
tees and Attorneys under power. Call.
Telephone—Central 2437.
J. Earle Hermann Ltd.
(CAPITAL £150,000).
J. EARLE HERMANN, Managing Director.
B. J. McDOUGALL, Sec.
Imperial Buildings,
16 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
BETTI NCTON
SMOKELESS BOILER
Adapted for Burning Slack.
Guaranteed Highest Efficiency.
Write for particulars to
FRASER & CHALMERS LTD.,
Equitable Building:, Melbourne;
Macdonald Street, Kalgoorlie;
New Zealand: D. M. DAVIS, Agent, Hall of
Commerce, High Street, Auckland. [1
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
in which case the profits are overstated. On the co.’s
past record, this paper inclines to the opinion that
the co. doesn’t write off too little. This shows a few
of the movements :
Dec., June, June, Dec., June,
1904. 1909. 1910. 1910. 1911.
Ship Property .. 41,300 85,350 76,862 71,850 66,750
Freeholds, etc... 7,175 3,036 2,724 1,9 8 1,732
Plant, etc. .. 2,730 5,416 5,032 4,974 4,746
Liquid Assets .. 66,157 24,624 34,266 46,358 45.156
Debts to Public 5,569 4,804 4,189 8,924 5,445
In two years ship property has shrunk from £85,350
to £66,750, and that looks like strenuous writing
down; but it has probably been helped by the sale
of some of the co.’s more ancient arks. Two years
ago liquid assets exceeded the liabilities by £19,820;
to-daj' the surplus is £42,711. But, again, that
rapid increase is probably due in part to the con-
version of arks into coin. Anyway, the financial
position is strong, and the co. could increase its
navy without leaning much on its banker. The
least satisfactory feature is that there isn’t much
inducement to increase the navy, for the co. is up
against keen railway competition all the time.
* * * *
The Foster Brewing Co. (Melbourne)
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
June, 1908 .. £51,700
Jan., 1909 .. £971 Nil £971 52,671
July, 1909 .. 556 5 p.c. =£1440 51,787
Jan., 1910 .. 2328 5 „ „ 1440 888 52,675
July, 1910 .. 6191 8 „ „ 2304 3887 56,562
Jan., 1911 .. -2507 8 „ „ 2304 203 56,765
July, 1911 .. 2748 8 ~ ~ 2304 444 57,209
The Foster is one of the combine breweries ; it holds
72,500 shares in the co. that was formed to do the
business that was previously done by half a dozen.
The combine, of course, doesn’t use all the breweries;
it had tlie right to rent or acquire all those that it
wanted, and to disregard the others. For a while
it wanted the Foster brewery, and paid £2OOO a
year for it, but the lease was presently commuted
for £BOOO, and the co. during the past 12 months
has got only £177 as rent of premises, etc., which
cost £88,719, and still stand in the books at
£45,494. However, the co. gains in another way,
for, through the cutting down of exes., the combine
now pays a pretty regular 8 p.c. Its record for the
past three years has been: —
Jan., 1909 .. 3 p.c. p.a. I July, 1910 .. 16 p.c. p.a.
July, 1909 . . Nil Jan., 1911 . . 8 p.c. p.a.
Jan., 1910 .. 6 p.c. p.a. | July, 1911 .. 8 p.c. p.a.
That is a shade under 7 p.c. p.a. for the three
years; but in 1909 the combine spent a great deal
of profit in putting in new plant, etc. How close
it has to sail to the wind to pay the 8 p.c., which
now seems to be a regular thing, can’t be even hinted
at, because it issues no accounts. Eight p.c. means
to the Foster Co. £ 2900 a half-year ; and that pays
all management exes., and leaves enough for an 8
p.c. div. on this co.’s capital ( £57,600), with two
or three hundred over. Besides the share capital the
co. has £BOOO of debenture capital; but, as men-
tioned above, the brewery lease was commuted for
£BOOO, so that the debenture debt is squared. A
sinking fund is, moreover, being accumulated to wipe
out the debentures; a shower of £lOl2 fell into this
fund from some invisible cloud during the past half-
year. (This amount, by the way, is not included
with the profits mentioned in the table; nor is the
sinking fund included with the reserves. Its total
is now £1521.) The co.’s future depends chiefly
upon the maintenance of the combine—-which is prac-
tically assured —and the absence of any tremendous
opposition. The prospects are certainly good. Con-
sidering the size of the reserves, the div. is very
moderate; but then it has to be remembered that a
sum almost equal to the reserves is represented by
the brewery asset which is at least dormant.
Goulburn Gas Co. (Goulburn, N.S.W.):—
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Dec., 1904.. £llBO 15 p.c. = £750 £430 £7,414
June, 1905.. 1111 15 „ ~ 750 361 7,775
Dec., 1905.. 1205 15 „ ~ 750 455 8,230
June, 1906.. 997 15 „ ~ 750 247 8,477
Dec., 1906.. 1079 15 „ „ 750 329 8,«06
June, 1907.. 1273 15 ~ ~ 750 523 9,329
Dec., 1907.. 1097 15 „ ~ 750 347 9,676
June, 1908.. 1216 15 ~ ~ 750 466 10,142
Dec., 1908.. 972 16 „ „ 750 222 10,364
June, 1909.. 1117 15 „ „ 750 367 10,731
Dec., 1909.. 872 15 ~ ~ 750 122 10,853
June, 1910.. 1090 15 ~ ~ 750 340 11,193
Dec., 1910.. 412 15 ~ ~ 750 10,855
June, 1911.. 1081 15 „ „ 750 331 11,186
Or, put it this way:—
June, 1901. June, 1911.
Liquid assets .. .. £4424 £10,515
Liabilities . . .. 317 391
Surplus .. .. £4107 £10,124
In 10 years the co. has done these things: Paid a
regular 15 p.c. on its capital; spent enough on
plant, etc., to increase its half-year’s revenue from
£2481 to £3294 (though no doubt some of the old
plant has been earning more than it used to) ; and
added £6017 to its surplus of more or less liquid
assets. It is a pretty tall performance on a paid
capital of £lO,OOO, and is calculated to make the
shareholders feel better than the consumers.
* * * *
Aarons’ Exchange Hotel Co. (Sydney):—
Writ- To Re-
ten duce De-
Profits. Dividends. Off. Deficit. licit.
Dec., 1904. . £l2O Nil £l2O £14,682
June, 1905.. 465 5 p.c. = £437 28 14,654
Dec., 1905.. 390 5 „ „ 437 14,701
Loss.
June, 1906.. 640 Nil 15,341
Profits.
Dec., 1906.. 503 Nil 503 14,838
June, 1907.. 670 5 p.c = 437 £lO9 124 14,714
Dec., 1907.. 632 5 „ „ 437 109 86 14,628
June, 1908.. 725 5 „ ~ 437 109 179 14,449
Dec., 1908.. 1156 5 ~ „ 437 109 610 13,839
Furiher payment for goodwill, £5063 . 18,902
June, 1909.. 619 5 p.c. = 481 109 29 18,873
Dec., 1909.. 319 5 „ „ 481 110 19.145
June, 1910.. 362 Nil 362 18,783
Dec., 1910.. 786 5 p.c. = 525 337 18,859
June, 1911.. 1316 7J „ „ 7SB 225 303 18,556
These accounts are, as usual, badly presented, and
the whole position is unsatisfactory. The co. started
in leased premises with a capital of £17,500, of
which no less than £15,000 was represented by
goodwill. That goodwill item should by every rule
of sound —not to say honest —finance have been
written off during the currency of the lease, unless
there was an agreement to renew it. As a matter of
fact, not one penny was written off. Subsequently a
new lease was secured; and still nothing was written
off. About three years ago, still another lease was
got; but this time the co. had to pay £5063 for it.
Now, therefore, goodwill (that is to say, the capital
represented b} r nothing visible —merely the right of
the co. to occupy at £1450 a year premises which the
law may or may not license) stands at £20,063.
Some sort of pretence is now being made at writing
down; that is to say, last half-year £337 was written
off “lease, furniture and improvements account,’ and
this term £22s—a most unsatisfactory way of doing
tilings, because the amount written off for the wear
and tear of furniture should be kept separate from
the sinking fund for the extinction of the goodwill
asset. The present capital is £21,000 in 35,000
shares of 155., paid to 125., and £20,063 plus some-
thing spent on “improvements” is paper. After
meeting liabilities, the co. has not got £2OOO of
visible assets. No doubt it may make a fair amount
of profit out of the pub business; but —where is the
capital in the event of anything going wrong? In
fact, where is it even if nothing goes wrong ?
Ivyloe (N.S.W.) sings its third annual
song in a minor key; for things at the No. 5 level
are not what they were at No. 4. The argument
used to run this way. No. 2 was good, and No. 3
was better, and No. 4 was better still, therefore at
No. 5 the lode must be bigger and richer again, and
at No. 6 it must regard the body at No. 5 as a com-
paratively poor relation. It looked all right; but
The Bulletin invited the sanguine people to spend
l|d. on a pear, and stand it stalk up, and consider
how it widened and widened —and then came to a
sudden end. So far as the rich ore is concerned the
end came about 50ft. below No. 4 level, and No. 5 is
a dreadful blank ; the ore channel is there, certainly,
but the values are not. It is possible, no doubt,
that they resume at a greater depth. But the san-
guine people had now better apply their own old
argument. As No. 3 was better than No. 2, and No.
4 better than No. 3, therefore No. 5 was going to be
better than No. 4. On that principle, as No. 5 is
worse than No. 4, No. 6 is liable, to be still worse
than No. 5. There is certainly no evidence that it
won’t be. During the last few days.the lode has, in
fact, been pricked, and, unfortunately, it consists
mainly of the same broken country as No. 5. Driv-
ing upon it may develop something better; but pros-
pects are not brilliant. Fortunately the co. still has
(or had on June 30) about £5OOO of liquid assets to
the good, after providing for liabilities; and it has
(say) 12 month’s’ ore in reserve, and a shaft equip-
ment capable of reaching 1000 ft. The main shaft
will therefore no doubt be continued another lift.
Since the present co. took over the property the
record has been as follows: —
Written
Profits. Dividends. Off. Deficit.
Jan., 1909 .. £585
Reserves.
June, 1909 .. £6,102 Nil £3461 2056
June, 1910 .. 14,210 £7,000 1887 7379
June, 1911.. 13,528 10,000 3853 7054
Theoretically reserves are assets held in excess of
the capital; but in practice it doesn’t often pan out
that way with a mining co., because, as a rule, the
mining property is not written down, though it is
mostly a rapidly-wasting asset. In this case, unless
the bottom improves wonderfully, the mine is worth
little, so (barring that wonderful improvement) not
only are there no reserves, but most of the capital is
not there, either. The true movement can best be
shown this way:—
1909. 1910. 1911.
Liquid assets .. .. £10,329 £6318 £7543
Liabilities . . . . 266 1882 1478
Surplus .. .. £10,063 £4436 £6065
Between 1909 and the present, £17,000 has been
paid in divs.; so that the two years’ work has re-
sulted in cash profit, after paying for development
and some plant, of £20,998. Compared with whac
the market hoped for and paid for, it is a woefully
poor performance.
Though A. J. Chappie, late of the Occi-
dental, introduced the vacuum slime plant to the Cobar
district (N.S.W.), he is not connected with the instal-
lation of the process at the Boppy. For the design,
construction and future working of the plant there
the co.’s own metallurgist Williamson is solely re-
sponsible. Also The Bulletin is assured that the
plant isn’t “similar to the one at the Occidental.”
Local expert opinion expects great things of it, and
describes it as “a scheme for which the co.’s officers
have worked hard and successfully, and which will
undoubtedly prove one of the best, as it is also one
of the most unique in the State.”
Heavy London selling of Broken Hill in-
terests, and especially of shares in the zinc concerns,
is beginning to make some Australian operators
wonder whether the zinc-smelters’ “convention” is
the solid thing it is cracked up to be.
The patents litigation over the zinc-flota-
tion processes is to go on. The Elmore people (Ore
Concentration Co.) have told their English share-
holders, by circular, that they are appealing direct
to the Privy Council against the adverse N.S.W.
judgment in' the suit they brought against the Sul-
phide Corporation.
•*** •*
Kangiara (N.S.W.), though it is still
miles away from success, has more hopeful prospects
in the crosscut at the 300 ft. level. The lode, which
is made up of streaks of ore, interspersed with coun-
try rock, has been sampled for 18ft. The best assays
were obtained between 14ft. and 18ft., over a width
of 4ft. ; copner 8.82 p.c., lead 17.21 p.c., silver
140 z., and gold ldwt. Probably, when the formation
is driven on north and south, some solid makes of
ore will be met with. That, anyhow, was the case
in the shallow levels, and only recently the south
face of No. 2 level was showing 2ft. of high-grade
lead ore (36 p.c. lead). For the week, 24 tons of
lead concentrates and 16 tons of copper ore were
sent away. The stuff is rich ; but the shipments
are miserably small in proportion to the number of
ordinary and preference shares.
Some more about the Oroya Exploration
and its world-wide ventures. Yuanmi (W.A.) : The
estimated treatment capacity of the plant is 4500
tons per month. Transvaal (W.A.) : A safe estimate
of ore reserves to date is 48,500 tons, worth 445. per
ton. About 275. per ton should cover exes, and loss
in residues. Queen of the Hills (W.A.) : Work is at
a standstill pending the erection of a mill. Ore in
sight is now computed at 53,510 tons (actual), assay-
ing 575. per ton, and 17,280 tons prospective,
averaging 445. per ton. Babilonia (Nicaragua) :
Development is retarded pending sinking, and ore
treatment is “off” until the undersized mill on the
property has been patched up, when it is hoped
returns will be sufficient to cover exes, until further
equipment can be obtained. The co. holds its next
annual meeting in October, and in the meantime
every nerve is being strained to make its numerous
mines and side-lines look as presentable as possible.
* * * *
In talking over things at the Associated
meeting chairman Hooper said that the co. now had
an overdraft of £16,000, but against this he wished
it to be remembered that £25,000 had been expended
on new plant during the year. At a later stage of
the proceedings Herman Landau said that, in order
to pacify nervous shareholders, he wished to point
out that the co. had sufficient securities to meet the
overdraft, and still leave a lot in hand. Besides the
£41,000 invested in Consols, and which the market
had since depreciated to £32,000, the co. had
£lOO,OOO sunk in Transvaal 3 per cents., which at
their depreciated price were still worth £94,250.
On tiMnivr tMq fLrw nresent tried to feel comfort-
able, which feeling would no doubt have been con-
siderably intensified had the Board there and then
decided to take no more risks, and distribute the in-
vested capital, minus the amount of overdraft. As
ii is, tile money will probably be dropped in some
foreign spec., and in the end scrip owners will get
nothing. As an earner of dividends the mine seems
to be more hopeless than ever. The discovery at
depth of something better than it has got at present
is its only chance of pulling through.
A case arising out of the sale of the Bull-
finch Main Lode (W.A.) was disposed of in a
London court the other day, when someone named
Thompson was successful in a claim for commission
against the Occident and Orient, Ltd., and others.
Thompson’s case was that the defendants agreed to
give him £lOOO cash and 1000 £1 shares in any
co. formed to work the property, conditionally on
his securing an option. He secured the option, which
was afterwards acquired by the Westralian United
Goldfields, Ltd. —a visionary concern promoted by
the defendants. The defendants pleaded that the
commission was only to be paid to Thompson if he
underwrote £lOOO worth of shares, and as he failed
to do so, they reckoned that they did not owe him
anything. Finally, a verdict by consent was given
plaintiff for £2265, to be reduced to £265 upon the
transfer of 2000 Westralia United Goldfields pre-
ference shares, the market value of which may, on
account of a scotched flotation, be safely estimated
at approximately nil.
Bullfinch West is stated to have purchased
the King of the Hills at Leonora (W.A.), and already
the local papers have begun to profess a belief
that “the co. has got hold of something that will
pay dividends for years.” The show has been
worked off and on for a long while by its former
owner, and his published reason for selling is that
“he wishes to retire from the fields” —good old stock
phrase!
In all probability, ITavilah (W.A.) will
have to give its Black Range venture best, and get
hold of something else. Minus the main shoot, which
has pitched into an adjoining show, the property
has become practically worthless; and although a
notion preyails in official quarters that other payable
gold deposits will be found out east, there is nobody
in the district, from the oldest inhabitant to the
latest arrival, who can give any logical reason why
the mine authorities should cling to that belief. A
little driving would settle the point, however, and
bring matters to a head.
Whim Well Copper Co. (W.A.) unearthed
about 650 tons of high-grade export ore last month,
and now reckons that it has 2300 tons, averaging
14 p.c., awaiting shipment. A howl has been raised
on the co.’s behalf against the proposed Federal ex-
port duty on crude ore. Being near the seaside, this
concern is able to ship stuff to Europe and get the
copper extracted by the foreigner, a trifle cheaper,
probably, than it could be done just yet in the Com-
monwealth. This, coupled with some supplementary
whine about the danger of such a tax becoming too
burdensome to be borne, is said to be the thing that
is distressing the co.’s friends. The real reason for
the outburst of grief, however, is that the imposi-
tion of the duty would tend to put a stop to the
co.’s mania for gouging out the best ore for export,
and would thus compel the co. to carry on mining
operations along more sensible and legitimate* lines.
Financial help has been given the Oroya
Leonesa by the obliging Oroya Exploration, Ltd.,
to enable it to bear up more successfully against the
troubles which beset it in revolutionary Nicaragua.
Nearly a year’s delay in development and equipment
has been entailed by a sanguinary encounter between
those who are running the country and some of
those who aren’t; but as the latter appear to have
had enough for the time being, the co. is hopeful of
getting a move on towards the producing stage with-
out any further hindrance. The profit in sight is
computed at £150,000 ; but this appears to be more
of a guess than an estimate.
* * * *
It is difficult to shake the truth out of a
number of unofficial and conflicting statements.
Nevertheless, Mount Elliott shares have revived on
the strength of a wire from North Queensland that
the Limestone mine has been purchased. A co. that
neglects to give prompt information to its Australian
shareholders opens the way to the very worst kind
of market-manipulation. The Limestone mine is
situated on a creek of the same name, and was
prospected by George Hart. It has been more
thoroughly opened up by a co-operative party, which
has sent away a fairly large quantity of high-grade
oxidised ore to Cloncurry. It is probable that the
owners of the show refused to extend the option,
and thus forced the co. to come to terms.
Mount Morgan gives the speculator a very
indefinite idea of its monthly profit, because nothing
is said about costs. Including middle products that
have yet to be converted into blister, the run for
August gave £74,805. The mundic works treated
9309 tons for 34210 z. fine, which, at £4 4s. lOd.
per oz., runs to £14,510, leaving £60,295 as the
gross return from the furnacing of 23,450 tons of
copper ore, which pans out at the reduced average
of £2 11s. sd. per ton. The annual report to May
31 showed a gross revenue of £953,292 from
334,869 tons, giving an average from all classes of
ore of £2 16s. lid. The mine that can keep that
extraction going is a wonder, and it is owing to
this good return that Mount Morgan was able to
stand up against a bill of £759,316 for the year’s
expenses, and still hand out its usual Is. per quarter.
For two years the expenditure totalled £1,481,038,
but for a variety of reasons the nayments were ab-
normal.
The Bluff colliery (Q.) people have in-
creased their capital from £2OOO to £6OOO. The cry
for the last three years has been “more dollars.” At
one time the Government was asked to help, but the
State wasn’t taking any. All the profits (which have
never been furious) have, except for one little lot,
gone back into the concern. The whole trouble seems
to be the co.’s grabbing propensities. At present,
besides the Bluff Central colliery, with its coke ovens,
it has leases at Blair Athol (130 miles off by rail),
and an interest in the Mammoth Admiralty Co., and
now it has acquired an option over the Columba.
recently deserted by the big Mount Morgan co. “If
they had not gone outside the Bluff,” said the general
manager at a meeting recently, “they would not have
required this £6000.” Still the acquisition of the
Blair Athol leases has some justification, as a mixture .
of Blair Athol and Bluff coal will be a very fine
fuel. Orders thus far run to less than 2000 tons
per month, so there is room for a lot of expansion.
* * * *
At Charters Towers the improvement of
Kelly’s Queen Block reef (1450 ft. formation), par-
allel to the Brilliant and St. George boundary, has
put a little life into the share market. Some time
since Kelly’s crushing of 172 tons realised £894,
and as the reef is showing an improvement in size
and quality, the market is in a hopeful mood. Kelly’s
has also a crosscut at the 657 ft. level to the St.
George reef, which is now being prospected. Mar-
shall’s Queen crushed 594 tons for an average of
£3 4s. per ton, which gives a profit. East Mexican
crushed 577 tons for £2378. Fortnightly returns
like this provide dividends of 6d. per month; the
next one is declared payable on October 6. The
East Mexican’s prospects depend to some extent on
whether the hanging-wall shoot of stone, which is
being worked profitably by Mills’ United in No. 5
level, can be traced into the Mexican. So far this
has not been done.
Great Fitzroy (Q.) estimates its revenue
for August at £11,763. The report states that 152
tons of blister copper were produced, so apparently
Fitzroy expects to get £77 7s. 9d. per ton for its
blister. Working costs amounted to £10,621,
leaving a surplus of £1142. The furnace treated 5038
tons for 152 tons blister, containing copper 151 tons,
gold 8920 z., and silver 28740 z. On the tonnage smelted,
the extraction works out practically 3 p.c. copper
and 3Adwt. gold ; as often happens, the extraction of
gold is above the assays obtained by sampling the
ore sent to the furnace. Apparently, concentration
of the more silicious ore is to be tried again, for
some alterations have been made to the mill.
A Californian prospector has burst out
into a weird motor-caravan, with which he proposes
to prospect the sand deserts of California. The
engine, 33 h.p., besides supplying the power for the
car, will light up the outfit, and drive a small ore-
crushing plant.
Every engineer in charge of factories and mills
should give close attention to the power wasted in
transmission of power. The Hyatt Flexible Roller
Bearings save 20 per cent, power and 75 per cent,
of oil, so one of the first duties is naturallv for
engineers to direct their special attention to 'these
bearings and to car boxes for trucks. Hyatts are
in continuous use in Cement Works, Ore Dressing
Mills, Factories, etc., in Australia. Bushings of
flexible rollers may be applied to loose pulleys or
truck wheels, etc. Should engineers require further
details, they can apply to the Australian Agents,
W. & J. Lempriere, Melbourne; or E. W. Hurst-
house and Co., of Wellington, the agents in New
Zealand.*
“FERRODOR” Paint.—Specially manufactured for
preserving galvanised iron and steel. Unaffected by
sea air, sulphur fumes, cyanogen gases. Used on
Princes and Victoria Bridges, P. and O. and N.D.L.
steamers, etc. Covers 1000 sq. yds. per cwt. WM.
ADAMS & CO., LTD., 175 Clarence Street, Sydney.*
The undisputed benefit of asbestos covering for
steam-pipes and boilers has been exemplified by a re-
cent scientific treatise of the principles of steam
conveyance. Tests made have established the fact
that 100 square feet of pipe covered with this
material, at a pressure of 2001 b. per square inch, and
coal at 16s. per ton, will save £7 per year, and
prevent loss of pressure equal to 13.84 B. Th. U. per.
square foot per minute. Bell’s Asbestos Non-con-
ducting Composition, supplied in cwt. bags, or
applied by experienced workmen at contract rates.
Bell’s Asbestos, Ltd., 315 Kent Street, Sydney.*
The Bigelow Patent Rock Breaker commends
itself to mine managers who welcome an effective
machine which is cheaper to maintain and repair
than Gyratory and other crushers. This machine is
of the well-known Blake type, but has some ad-
ditional improvements which have justified in' prac-
tice all the claims advanced by the patentee. The
work of crushing is done on the down-stroke of the
pitman instead of the up-stroke; there is no strain
on the pitman cap; two large side rods resist the
thrust of the toggles, and enable the jaws to be
regulated within a large range; the back toggle is
so made as to resist all legitimate strains of crush-
ing, but will shear under exceptional conditions and
save the machine. The shaft and eccentric bearings
are self-lubricating; the jaws are convex and con-
cave, and with the cheek plates are made of steel
and are reversible. The Austral Otis Engineering
Company, of South Melbourne, have installed a great
number of these machines, and hold the sole manu-
facturing rights for the Commonwealth.* [3
FOR SALE Cheap, Second-Hand, 15 Break H.P.
Tangye Gas Engine, in good order. Apply Manager,
Bulletin Office, 214 George Street, Sydney.*
Extract from the Financial News, London
(29/8/1910) : “A young Life Office has many diffi-
culties to contend against, and in its early years the
progress of its business must be comparatively slow;
rapid growth can only be expected when a certain
amount of success has already been attained, and the
business on the books has reached a total of some
magnitude. To this general rule, the Colonial
Mutual is certainly a striking exception. From the
outset the Society has been remarkably successful in
obtaining business, and its rise to a position of
eminence has been exceptionally rapid.”*
PIONEER WOOD PIPE has three things to recom-
mend it in preference to metal pipe; it is more
economical, more durable, and has greater carrying
capacity. Catalogues may be obtained from the
manufacturers, the Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd.,
Balmain.*
SIMPITROL AIR GAS—the light that is nearest
daylight and almost as cheap. The Simpitrol Air
Gas System has all the advantages and none of the
disadvantages of other systems. It is simple, abso-
lutely safe, and is the most economical light you can
have, costing one-sixth that .of electricity, one-quarter
that of oil, and one-fifth that of acetylene lights. It
is not explosive, and does not entail tedious winding
and regulating of burners. Write for Illustrated
Booklet, Simpitrol Lighting (Australasia), Ltd.,
84-88 William-street, Melbourne. Dept. W.*
Mine Managers, Engineers.—Do you want a first-
class Pneumatic Tool, Machine, or an Air Com-
pressor. Ask for the NILES. BOHLER BROS. AND
CO., LTD., 1 Angel Place, Pitt Street, Sydney, and
183 Queen Street, Melbourne, will provide you with
it. Also with Castings, solid and hollow Miners’
Drill Steel, Cast Steel for all purposes, Motor-car
Steels, Tools, etc.*
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so, write
to Griffith and Ilassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address, 163 King Street, Sydney;
and 9 Queen Street, Melbourne.* [2
F. DANVERS POWER, mining engineer, is pre-
pared to purchase approved MINING properties. Ad-
dress: National Mutual Chambers, Pitt and Bond
Streets, Sydney.*
Nobel’s Explosives are the best and most re-
liable. We are agents for the original makers,
Hamburg. Large stocks on hand. Contracts at low
rates. WM. ADAMS & CO., LTD., 175 Clarence
Street, Sydney.*
The Bolinder Oil Engine, which is Known as the
simplest and most easily managed of all oil engines,
is now represented throughout Australia by Babcock
and AVilcox Ltd., Haymarket, Sydney. The advant-
ages of the Bolinder are small consumption of oil,
ease of starting, no complicated arrangement of
valves, and autcmatic lubrication, and these are testi-
fied to by Australian users. The engine is made by
a firm who have manufactured oil engines for 25
years, and comes from a factory with an output of
1500 engines per annum.* [1
One of the oldest and best-known engineering con-
cerns in the Commonwealth has been converted into
a proprietary company, with a capital of £150,000,
now trade as Mephan Ferguson Proprietary,
Limited, the governing directors being Mephan Fer-
guson and Robert Shand. The head office and works
are at Gordon Street, Footscray, Victoria.*
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign Patents obtained.
Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Melbourne, and
Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write us for In-
ventors’ Guide.*
* * • *
Assayers, Mine Managers, and Prospectors
write to H. B. Silberberg and Co., 443 Bourke
Street, Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining
requisites and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc
pulverisers to 200 mesh; hand sample grinders to
120 mesh; Ainsworth’s assay balances sensitive to
1/13000 grain; prospector’s balances to 1/1000
grain ; weight; pocket transits; gasoline combination
furnaces ; Morgan’s crucibles ; chemicals; etc.*


tftflt to H.M. if
Charles Heidsiech
BEOIS
AUd VIIIX3
☆ W
y
FINEST EXTRA Q?
ROBUR
To appear bright and breezy
when you’re attending a bad case
isn’t the easiest thing in the
world, and no matter what
anyone may say, when it’s a
matter of " Life or Death ” a case
will get you down if you let it —
but of course you musn’t let it.
I find when I’m getting the
blues the best thing to do is take
a cup of good, pure tea —sip it
steaming hot, and sip it quickly.
" Robur ” is the purest tea —
its flavour isn’t sickly, it brightens
you up, and does you no harm.
The "No. 1” Grade "Robur”
is really a delightful tea to drink,
and it isn’t expensive tea to
buy. They use it in many of
the Hospitals, and they don’t
generally use anything that’s bad.;
in those places.
The Nurse..
QUALITY—BUCHANAN WHISKY
BLACK & WHITE.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, September 11, 1911.
My Dear Arini, —
The power of suggestion, or some less
psychic complaint, recently laid low Tas-
manian Governor Barron’s pretty missus,
after she returned from a ball in aid of the
Apple-Garden’s Bush Nurses’ Fund. She is
getting well slowly, after this digression on
a sick bed.
Hobart, according to a confirmed inhabi-
tant, has had a mild epidemic of returned
Ooronator’s junketting, to welcome home the
wanderers. Premier Elliot Lewis and his
dame have unpacked their frills amid a whirl
of toasts, luncheons, and other explosions of
local hospitality. Elliot is alleged to tackle
his food gleefully, with the healthy appetite
of Australia’s “High Conditioner,” George
the Great. One welcome-home feed in Ho-
bart included a private luncheon, at which
the hostess filled Lewis with his best-loved
diet—cream and custard. This was the
moment ear-marked for the putting of an
awkward question to Tassy’s Premier.
While the company waited, Lewis, with
bulging cheeks, stoked cream and custard,
and cleverly dodged the answer behind a
yard or two of table linen.
Hobart’s Dr. Isabel Ormiston has torn
herself away from the eyes and teeth of
State school-children, which she habitually
inspects in the Apple-Island, for a holiday
trip to Sydney’s blue-water front.
Premier Jim McGowen’s wife lost her
heart to the London policeman during the
Crowning uproar. Mrs. Jim chatters joy-
fully about her scamper through overseas’
cities, and when she wasn’t catching taxis,
or counting her luggage, says sne sat clown
and thanked God she was coming back to
Australia. “Mind you, it’s been a fine edu-
cation, and opened my mind to broader
ideas —anyhow to a better knowledge of how
folks live in other parts ; and it’s given me a
greater appreciation of the splendid oppor-
tunities Australia offers to those who are
determined to succeed. In England the
poorer class seemed so down that they didn’t
want to get up. I’m only giving my own
impression, of course, but the most hopeless
part of the social problem in London was
the crushed outlook of these poor souls—•
‘the submerged tenth,’ they call them —who
don’t seem to have a spark of the Austra-
lian spirit to try and help themselves.
They’re submerged—and why should anyone
on God’s earth be allowed to get right down
under like that? I’m glad I didn’t see the
Thames Embankment in winter —they told
me about it. However, there is a bright and
beautiful side to London life, and I try to
remember only the pleasant picture.”
Mrs. Jim stayed on the eighteenth floor of
a New York sky-scraper, tossed three ostrich
tails on her head in the presence of British
royalty, wandered in English lanes, and has
talked Australia right through her trip, at
the rate of about 70 miles an hour. And she
has done it with such success that a rush of
desirable immigrants may be expected here
shortly. She’s easing off steam just now',
and returns to the broom and dust-pan of
domestic life.
Dr. and Mrs. W. Chisholm, of this patch,
when last heard of, were climbing Swiss
tourist resorts.
Hon. Sec. Miss Compton Legge and Hon.
Treas. Mrs. A. Fraser are sitting down to
get their breath after exhaustive labors on
behalf of Stray Dogs in general, and the
Neutral Bay Home for mislaid beasts in
particular. The recent skating Carnival in
North Sydney Coliseum pushed a stout
cheque into the kennels’ cash-box, and Mrs
Fritz Hart, who incidentally slipped down-
stairs in the middle of her sprint for the
Cause, is getting over her bruises.
Mrs. Lister-Lister poured out tea for the
JR.A. Society’s visitors on Saturday after-
noon.
The Medical Congress, which hasn’t fallen
on its own and each other’s necks in this
■city for 18 years, is dribbling into every
well-known tavern in the town. About 800
members of the B.M.A. will (d.v. and a
locum tenens permitting) meet together for
work and play in a few days. Officially, the
spree opens at the Uni. on September 10.
An evening party, which Dr. R. H. Todd is
helping to push into its place, occurs on the
19th, in the Town Hall. The guests will
not be entirely fed on music, though Henri
stael, Mabel Batchelor and Alice Bryant
are going to take a hand. This Pill and
Powder and Porous Plaster function will
also witness the beauty of the high kick in
a dance by clever Minnie Hooper’s pupils.
The Ernest Wunderlichs, now in Europe,
drop in on a Bayreuth post-card to a Svdney
friend. “Supper washed down with Moselle
from the lovely old cellar, after hearing
fourth day of ‘the Ring’ (‘Twilight of the
Gods’), a magnificent performance. It began
at 4 p.m.. and lasted till 9.45 p.m.” Bay-
reuth, by the way, the home of the elder
Wunderlichs, has an unquenchable thirst
for Wagner.
Does .Melbourne claim Miss Sylvia Yarra,
mentioned at the reception at Claridge’s
Hotel (London), in July?
Mrs. John McCormack is at present in
Lewisham Hospital, where a slight opera-
tion keeps her away from this week's menu
of Skylark pie at Her Majesty’s.
Before this reaches you, the State school
child will have decorated the Sydney Cricket
Ground with flags, a living picture of G.R.
and his gold hat, and other holiday sports.
Six or seven thousand youngsters, decked
out in new clothes for the occasion, will thus
give the local rag-trade a fresh impetus.
In the Town Hall, the other day, there
was a great rally of infants who were
heavily branded as “Christian Endeavorers.”
Rev. Varcoe Cock instructed these babes to
consider the ant —an appropriate change
from the busy bee who is usually hurled at
knickerbocker meetings. The ant is a foolish
beast, who brings half his troubles on him-
self by climbing mountainous grass blades
with gigantic loads on his back, instead of
walking round the obstacles. He is the em-
bodiment of Inherent Cussedness. Mark
Twain considered the ant one of Creation’s
fools, and the infant Endeavorer who carries
too heavy a swag of good resolutions on his
back is liable to develop the ant-like pro-
pensity of rolling in the dust.
The Plain and Fancy Corroboree, last
week, in aid of the North Sydney Women’s
and Children’s Hospital, is expected to
scrape together about £l3O when the cash
is counted in catmittee meeting.
The gilded feathers of modern song-birds
are very different from the shabby plumage
of the Italian opera companies that sang
through Europe in the ’6o’s and ’7o’s of last
century. The conduct of a prima donna of
grand opera, who washed her lingerie and
hung it out to dry—without a blush —in the
window of her hotel bedroom, drew the pro-
tests of the proprietor, but was otherwise not
considered eccentric. Provincial Italy, with
a large population of duchesses, countesses
and such, in poor circumstances, was as-
tonished at nothing—in which it resembled
Papua. G. A. Sala, in the early ’7o’s,
stayed at the Hotel Victoria in Venice,
where a troupe of operatic artists and the
proprietor spent their spare moments in
spirited arguments re the drying of operatic
underlinen on front window sills.
MISS ESTA D'ARGO, the Sydney soprano,
who is to tour Australia with Mr. Ben
Davies , the English tenor.
The short and fat, who nurse a grudge
against the present silhouette fashions in
skirts, have to remember with gratitude
that they have dodged the one-button even-
ing glove, to which the “Traviata” period
condemns Violetta so long as grand opera
walks the earth. It is a lamentable article,
and worthy of all condemnation.
The long arm of coincidence pulls three old
student friends together in the Melba Opera
Co. —John McCormack, M. Kaufmann and
Cristiani, who once shared the same cage in
Milan. The long arm has a wonderful drag-
ging power. If it could only be harnessed to
a plough it would dig up all the Western
District in about two hours.
Samson loses his Titian curls to Delilah
(in Saint-Saens’s massive opera), during the
second act, while a large thunderstorm is
hurrying across the stage. Delilah’s home
in the Valley of Soreck is the shearing shed.
Eleanora de Cisneros, as the Philistine lady,
achieves this clip in a glamor of azure blue,
with a silver-hoar-frost glittering on its milk-
white tunic. The same act reveals Eleanora-
Delilah in another device of Satan for the
downfall of the hefty Israelite —a drape of
royal blue shimmer, with a Tyrian purple
sheen in its subtle folds. One of Israel’s
worst business transactions on record is the
result. Eleanora-Delilah, a magnificent pil-
lar of round, white flesh, is a colossal suc-
cess of physical beauty, and Samson-Zeni,
who’s six feet three in his socks, hasn’t a
hundred to one chance of saving his thatch.
Abimelech (Ivaufmann) lost his yellow
pot-hat, as well as his life, at one produc-
tion of “Samson and Delilah,” and died
without a wriggle, in his bare head. Abime-
lech is killed so early in the opera that Mr.
Kaufmann is free to accept engagements for
supper, while Samson-Zeni is trying to keep
his hair on. It’s a wonderful growth, with
a thick forest of long auburn curls.
Eleanora-Delilah gets away from her
classic pose in purple, when the Strong Man
at Her Majesty’s is girding up his loins to
tackle the pillars of the Temple—final
eclipse in the third act. She covers her
finger joints with jewels the size of small
tombstones, or thereabouts, flashes great
golden flowers on her head, and glitters from
neck to ankles in plumage of blue, green and
gold that shatters the peacock’s pretensions
to consider himself a well-dressed singer.
Grand onera has flooded this city at night
with diamonds, purple and fine linen, motors,
and other signs that Capital still haunts
these parts. The first night of “La Bohfeme,”
with Melba as Mimi, filled various streets
near Her Majesty’s with petrol fumes from
goggle-eyed motors, and language from pedes-
trians who had to walk round a block to get
on to the right kerbstone.
Bassich, the Mimi whose acting was the
star turn of “Boheme” in this hamlet some
years ago, had a figure rather stouter than a
wooden match, mostly wore her melancholy
little head tied up in a black shawl, scat-
tered a consumptive cough across the Bo-
hemians’ attic, and, judging by her clothes,
earned about a day as a work-girl, and
found herself. Her harrowing end—an as-
tounding piece of realism —always sent a
sniffle through the theatre. Melba, better-
dressed, gave a lighter reading of the part,
sang divinely, and, on Saturday night, had
her death prolonged by a riotous curtain
that hung up at one end when it ought to
have come down.
Russian Axarine, the slim Musetta of
“BohSme,” showed the 1830 coiffure in fair
corkscrew curls that dangled over her ears.
The trousers of the period were worn with
cheerful resignation by all the Bohemians.
Bagged at the hips, with a wisp of material
at the ankle, Marcello-Scandiani’s 1830 leg
drapery was laid out in a large Highland
gathering pattern of plaid bars. Habitual
first-nighters were tightly wedged into a
crowded house. Dr. Stewart McKay, Mrs.
George Vivers in black velvet heavily
sprinkled with diamonds, and Mrs. Phil
Morton with an agitated green plume firmly
clasped to her head with a cameo, were in
a box. Overhead the tuneful McQuades sat
in their first-night pen. Front stalls—space
being worth something handsome per inch—
were just able to breathe without hustling
the orchestra. Mrs. Steer Bowker and Mrs.
Schute were half a bar behind Mr. Ange-
lini’s baton ; the Arthur Allens—Mrs. Allen’s
white lace mantle being the last remark in
theatre wraps—were further back, with
daughter Joyce clad in a blush pink film of
chiffon. Geranium-red gowns flecked the
stalls with joyous color. Miss Von Arn-
heim’s osprey nodded in front of Mr. Justice
Gordon’s party, and the Margaret Thomas
smile was in its usual place.
Marshall-Hall heard the beating wing of
the Angelini of his dreams in Melbourne,
anu fled to this Mecca of music for the first
night of “Boheme.” His black thatch, with
a rim of eyebrow, rose in agitated crescendo
above the standing-room-only row in Her
Majesty’s dress circle, when the Skylark’s
silvery song poured into the McCormack
gold mine in a duet.
On the first night, the “Faust” chorus
had a slight mishap to its singing. Wayda-
Marguerite averted the Angelini wrath when
on its way to interview the offenders —pre-
sumably hiding at that moment in the cellars
—by dragging him on to the stage. Thunders
of applause smoothed the Angelini forelock
back to normal, and the generous Wayda
tore her bouquets to pluck flowers for the
director’s ruffled feelings—a climax not anti-
cipated by the givers of the vegetables.
According to the gospel of Edmund Burke,
certain districts in France are the hardest
places out of Heaven to sing in. “They’ll
hiss and applaud a singer in the same item,
tear it to pieces in one bar, and clap it in
the next,” says the experienced Burke.
Melba mostly lives in Her Majesty’s
Theatre, supported by a 1 o’clock sandwich
and a lap of milk, and dives into every detail
of the evening’s production, with a physical
energy which makes the chorus mop its agi-
tated brow.
At last Thursday’s production of “Samson
and Delilah,” the chorus seemed to go to the
devil, or some other well-known musical ad-
dress, for about five minutes. This sprint
occurred in the first act, but Angelini
dragged the voices back to the baton before
the casualties were serious.
Artist Philip Streeton has been scratch-
ing Fogland for a nice-looking young John
the Baptist model with his head on his
shoulders —-with apologies to Maud Allan,
who carried the head as a separate institu-
tion. He wanted a blonde youth, with a
vigorous, upstanding presence, and a John
Storm manner, carefully disguised under a
sac suit. Streeton eventually snared young
Steffani MacDonald’s fair phiz as a study
for the Baptist portrait, which is likely to be
hung in the next Paris Salon. Steff., a
good-looking youngster now warbling on the
London stage, is the musical chick of Mr.
and Mrs. Will Mac Donald —she was song-
bird Kate Slattery, of these parts—and cut
his teeth to the trills of grand opera in his
home-nest.
Contralto Ella Caspers has snatched the
Royal Academy of Music (London) silver
medal, from all competitors, for her fine
singing in the July exam.
Esther Kahn has written some joyous
music for a convivial ballad about tankards
that clink in the early morn. “Old English
Tavern Song” is the name of this flowing
bowl melody, and Nicholson and Co., Ltd.,
forward it. The chorus is arranged for four
voices.
Mrs. Slapoffski is going to pack up her
voice for the Cold Land in January, the
Crystal Palace and Albert Hall being in-
cluded in her overseas’ song burst. On
Monday afternoon some citizens will as-
semble together at the Australia, to consider
a farewell concert to the departing Throat,
and thereby hope to convey to the Warble
that will shortly vanish how much she will
be missed.
Manager E. J. Kilpatrick, of the Alham-
bra Theatre (Haymarket), is looking for
feminine scalps for his “All Australia
Crowning Glory Competition,” and intends
to hand out £4O worth of prizes. The best
heads of hair will be biographed, and will
eventually travel over the globe to show
what can be done in the way of thatch when
an Australian woman is underneath. It’s to
be an all-Australian competition, and the
judges will be the public. Twenty pounds
will go to the woman with the best all-
round summit of roof glory—color, texture
and abundance all considered. The girl with
ropes of hair will get away with £lO if her
ropes are longer than those of any other
girl, this being a question of long continu-
ance only. The best-groomed hair will cap-
ture £5. Finally, a special reward of £5 for
the handsomest crop that children up to
fourteen can grow (without neglecting their
lessons) is the last prize which biograph
Kilpatrick hurls into the sweep.
Hugh Ward has taken a house at Potts
Point, known in old days as Percy Lodge.
In 1850 it was occupied by Mrs. Eleanor
Terry. She gave way to her relative, Major
Wingate, who resided there for many years,
and died there. Recent owners renamed the
place Bellevue. It is sandwiched in by the
old homes of James Martin (Clarens) and
Joseph Thompson (Tor Lodge). The latter
is being demolished to make way for C. J.
Roberts’s house (Chatsworth by name).
Woolloomooloo Day Nursery got a fresh
incentive to continue in well-doing out of
the Palace Theatre matinee for its benefit,
the other day. Ethel Irving was the garnish
of the menu in “Dolly’s Little Bills,” and
wept beautifully over the ancient domestic
problem, “How many new hats are neces-
sary to the happiness of a pretty woman?”
“Golden Lilies,” a new excuse to waltz, is
written by Lai Paton in swinging rhythm
and several flats. Beale and Co., Ltd., pub-
lish this melodious trifle.
Airman “Beaumont,” who won the Daily
Mail £lO,OOO prize, intends to remain in the
navy when he isn't careering through the
atmosphere. His chief trouble, at present, is
the daily post, which is over-weighted with
offers of marriage from girls who saw the
“Beaumont” £lO,OOO smile in the ha’penny
papers. Emancipated woman is taking the
bit in her mouth with a vengeance.
New York Evening News recently re-
corded a queer spasm of street-cleaning in
Atlanta. Society women tucked up their
sleeves, pinned up the tails of their frocks,
and, broom in hand, dashed at dirty streets
and unsavory back yards. Six thousand
housewives joined in the scrimmage, and the
battle of the broom was waged against dirt,
with terrific fury, till nightfall. Then a
clean city ate its supper and went to bed.
Yours, with a broad nib,
VANDORIAN.


HARDY BROTHERS
LIMITED,
Vice-Regal
ĝh
Jewellers
PRESENTATION SERVICES
In Solid Silver and High Quality Silver Plate.
Uti
HARuY
BROS:
!
“THE GEORGIAN ’’
Solid Silver Afternoon Tea Set, with Hot Water or
Coffee Jug, in case,
£24.
FULL PARTICULARS! OF THE MANY DESIGNS IN STOCK ON APPLICATION.
13 Hunter Street, Sydney.
118 Queen Street, Brisbane.
London Office—l 9 CHARTERHOUSE STREET, HOLBORN CIRCUS, E.C.
800,000 Copies Sold of the Popular
“Bookstall Series” of Australian Novels.
Written, Illustrated and Printed in Australia.
Price Is. each 5 Post Free, Is. Id.
“ROCKY SECTION.”
By SYDNEY PARTRIGE.
ILLUSTRATED BY E. H. MURRAY.
Price, 1/-. Post Free, 1/1.
This is an Australian Love Story pure and simple, and as such very refreshing
and very welcome. A young Queenslander falls in love with a fascinating girl from
town, but is jilted in favor of a titled man with money. He becomes a misogynist of the
deepest dye, and buries himself in a veritable wilderness called Rocky Section—miles
from anywhere. One day he discovers a girl near his place, who has evidently lost
her way, and fainted from sheer exhaustion. He takes- her to his hut, and revives
her, only to find that she has lost her memory, and cannot tell where she comes
from. He hates women with a bitter hatred, but is on the horns of a dilemma. What
happens? “The way out” is most interesting, but you must read it for yourself.
SELECTED LIST OF OTHER BOOKS IN THIS SERIES :
JOHN VANE, BUSHRANGER
SHORT-LIVED BUSHRANGERS -
A ROGUE’S LUCK -
THE SIGN OF THE SERPENT -
THE NEW CHUM
EPOS! EROS WINS!
THE MARE WITH THE SILVER HOOF -
BILLY PAGAN, MINING ENGINEER -
THE MYSTERY OF THE BOXING CONTEST
ON THE FRINGE OF THE NEVER NEVER -
THE DOUBLE ABDUCTION - -
TOM PAGDIN, PIRATE ------
ADVENTURES OF MR. BARNES - - - -
THE BARB OF AN ARROW
BY HIS EXCELLENCY’S COMMAND -
BULLETIN RECITER (New Edition)
THE SPELL OF THE BUSH
GENTLEMAN JACK -------
THE MISSING LINK -------
TOMMY THE HAWKER ------
BENNO AND SOME OF THE PUSH
AN AUSTRALIAN PEER ------
THE SELECTOR ------
THE LOST ECHO (The Story of The Richmond) -
Clias. White
Arthur Wright
J. H. M. Abbott.
A. H. Adams.
F. Agar.
Bob Alien.
R. Bedford.
“Bert James.”
H. K. Bloxham.
E. J. Brady.
Alt' Brasch.
Roy Bridges.
John X. Cameron.
“Don Delaney.”'
Edward Dyson.
George Forbes.
James Green.
N.S.W. Bookstall Co., 476 George Street, Sydney,
AND ALL BOOKSELLERS.
Lists sent Post Free to Any Address.
THE PIANOLA PIANO
(STECR or STEINWAY PIANO)
I
55s
ta
m
zz?
&.Z,
W-
-3*
WL
b
pr
Jr&
wWI
T MI GERMAN (M»tiun
Is tKe Ideal Home Piano.
What the Pianola Piano will mean in your home: —
It will mean that you can have music—the best of music—whenever you want
it.
It will mean that you will always have an ever-ready means of entertaining
friends.
It will mean a constantly growing familiarity with an abundance of beautiful
music you may not at present even realise is in existence.
It will mean an important educational factor for the children —a method of
making them familiar with the world’s great composers, thus supplying a deficiency
in the educational system of most schools.
It will mean that you can familiarise yourself with the grand operas that are
to be sung this season by Madame Melba’s Grand Opera Co., in advance of their
production, or it will keep you in touch with the successes of the comic-opera stage.
And, above all. it will mean that, instead of just listening to music, you can play it.
No one can tell you the tremendous fascination of producing music. You must
experience it yourself. And, when you do, you will realise for the first time in your
life you are learning what musical enjoyment is. The STECK Pianola Piano,
having a 1 lanola inside its case, may be played by anyone. The presence of the
Pianola, however, does not interfere with the piano’s use for hand playing and
practice.
IMPORTANT.—If you have reached the point where music in the home seems
essential to the happiness of the family, do not make the mistake of supposing that
there are other instruments just about as good as the PIANOLA PIANO.
wAVD^voTm^TA^ 11 you obtain the PIANOLA and STECK or STEIN-
WAY PIANOLA PIANOS.
a -2& er A firmsbave other Payers, for which extravagant claims are made, but the
PIANOLA continues everywhere to be regarded as the STANDARD. It is the
only instrument of the kind which has the hearty support of the musical world,
and which is bought by the most discriminating class of purchasers here and abroad.
Let us send you one of our catalogues. We will send it free if you will write us Ask
tor Catalogue C.
Full Value Allowed for Slightly Used or Second-hand Pianos as part payment on a STEINWAY or STECK PIANOLA PIANO.
THE PIANOLA COMPANY, 357 George Street, Sydney
(Next David Jones Ltd.) Also at MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and BRISBANE


Madame Mdsseran ,
Corsetiere,
of 9 ColUns Street, Melbourne, begs to in-
form, her Sydney clients that she will be at
the Hotel M6tropole, from Friday, 22nd, to
Wednesday, 27th inst., both dates inclusive.
DELAY IS DANGEROUS.
There is no class of ailment that affects the system
quicker than bowel complaints, and any delay in
treating diarrhoea or colic is dangerous. Chamber-
lain’s Colic, Cholera and Diarrhoea Remedy is the
only remedy that is absolutely reliable in cases of
this kind, and as some member of the family is
always liable to an attack at any time, it should
always be kept in the house.*
The courage and endurance which helped
Burgess in his great swim across the Eng-
lish Channel are the qualities which, when
aided by wisdom, conquer in every realm of
enterprise and achievement. And the wis-
dom part of the contract —the best to inspire
the best deeds—is that inspired by D.C.L.,
the Whisky of the Wise.*
Shopping—
by Post.
This method, of purchasing your re-
quirements means , with us, the com-
pletest satisfaction to you.
Note our special claims for supremacy
in our Mail Order Department: —
5f First and foremost, we refund the
money on all goods returned, except
articles made to order, or material cut
to special lengths.
If We have a capable and experienced
staff in this Department; this ensures
promptitude and despatch in all tran-
sactions.
H It is the policy of this house to afford
to Customers a never-failing and per-
fect courtesy. We pay to Country
Customers, who mail their orders, the
same attention that we do those at the
Counter or in the Showroom.
If Our New Spring and Summer Cata-
logue will be published in a few days.
We will be pleased to forward same,
with self-measurement and order forms,
to any address on application. We
consider the request a compliment,
whether goods are ordered or not.
1f Frequently we secure Job Lines from
Manufacturers, and these are thrown
out at very low prices. For particu-
lars of these, see Melbourne daily
papers.
If Finally, we pay carriage on all pur-
chases, except on bulky articles, as Floor
Coverings, Furniture, Bedding, Bed-
steads, Glassware, and the like, to any
address in the Commonwealth.
BALL & WELCH
PTY., LTD.,
180=188 Flinders Street,
MELBOURNE.
Opposite Princes Bridge Station.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbournk, September 11, 1911.
My Dear Yarrie, —
The Federal Parliament took down the
shutters again on Tuesday, and joked on the
doorstep. The small G.-G. who did the job
is as decorative as any previous figurehead
we have supported. His inches are few but
neat, and what there are of them are as long
as anybody else’s inches, and his feet reach
the ground easily when he is standing up.
He travels to his job with an unusually
large and elegant suite. On Tuesday, he was
accompanied by half a dozen scarlet, and the
same number of black and gold, military cir-
cumstances. He was punctual to the stroke,
and was forced to tvait several minutes for
members, who were engaged elsewhere. The
suite fidgeted impatiently; but his Ex. filled
in the wait easily by pulling off his white
gloves with immense deliberation. If the
Reps, and Senators had delayed much longer
than they did, he might have removed his
coat and hung it on the nearest nail like the
ordinary toiler when he gets down to graft.
However, just about the time he had fin-
ished stroking his gloves flat, the Clerk smote a
bell, an usher approached, and, several lengths
behind, came the dilatory politicians strung-
out like a Cup field. They had been delayed
by a proclamation or a count or something.
His Ex. then read the Speech in a small
voice, and everybody listened attentively. The
Official Black Beetle, or Usher of the Black
Rod, made his debut in ordinary trousers,
the picturesque but out-of-date knee-breeches
having been deducted from the Ushery. The
magnificent McCall, who has been moved up
one, witnessed the performance of his suc-
cessor with critical attention. The Mace,
like the- knee-breeches of Black Rod, was not
visible, having been left by order in the pro-
perty room. Bruce Smith seemed perturbed
about it, but business went on as usual.
Prime Minister Fisher gave a special tea-
party in the Senate Club Room after the
opening ceremony, to welcome Mrs. Fisher,
just home that day from America. She
stepped off the Sydney train at half-past one,
and came straight along to Parliament
House. , A black and white dress, which was
almost covered by a beautiful lace coat, was
the homing costume. Mrs. Pearce helped to
hostess the pleasant breaking of bread, and
the wives of the other Ministers assisted in
a homelike way. Mrs. P.M.G. Thomas was
in blue with a cute punchinello hat, and Mrs.
Hughes in grey. Lady Denman was in
purple, with waving plumes, and Miss Quirk
in sage green.
The dusty gallery seats were crowded to
suffocation, and the costly raiment of the
gallery guests cleaned the place up nicely.
Many inquiries were made by angry women
as to the whereabouts of the Usheress of the
Feather Duster.
A new and rather anxious G.-G. got the
invalid Chamberlain, Victor Hood, out of his
quiet private hospital, and implored his assist-
ance just once before he set out on the pre-
scribed voyage and extended holiday. The
dutiful sick man, looking very shaken, ap-
peared at the elbow of his Ex. at the opening
of the Australian Parliament, and there was
a relieved look on the faces of the brand-new
and nicely-upholstered suite.
The G.-G. and Lady’s racing carnival in-
tentions for Sydney and Melbourne are an-
nounced betimes by a typed programme from
the Chamberlain’s office. The exactitude of
the dates is not vouched for, but they are
given as “probable.” At Sydney Govern-
ment House there is to be a ball on Friday
the 29th inst., another ball on Monday, Octo-
ber 2, and a garden party on the Thursday
following. The Cup week events for Mel-
bourne are a dinner party at Government
House on Monday. November 6, a ball on
the Wednesday (Bth), and a garden party
on Friday (10th) —the three evenings of the
days when Flemington racecourse is closed
for cleaning and repairs.
| Governor Fuller opened the Daffodil Show
since I last wrote. He resolutely refused to
speechify until he had been shown the blos-
soms. When, at last, he uttered the longed-
for incantations, he accompanied them with
the statement that he was no gardener, and
could not speak with authority. “But,”
added he, “ my wife is a gardener.” The
Fuller lady had, however, made that fact
plain to all during the preliminary inspec-
tion. When his Ex. would merely remark,
“Now that’s a pretty flower,” her Ex. would
criticise or admire like an expert.
“Isn’t that name spelt wrongly?” she asked,
pointing at one polysyllabic label. A hurried
examination showed that it was.
Governor Denman must have “cottoned”
to Arthur Levey—of the Theatre Royal—
when they fellow-voyaged from England. His
Ex. lately presented Arthur with a silver
box, containing myriads of cigarettes, and
inscribed, souvenirly, on the lid.
Melba’s brother Frank secured his trea-
sure of a lady-love in holy bonds last week,
and bore her off to Sydney for the new
moon. On their return to Victoria the happy
pair will domicile with Dad Mitchell at
Doonside, where a suite of rooms has been
beautifully furnished for them.
About the beginning of September each
year the aldermen shuffle themselves, and
new mayors are chained up. Malvern, the
sacred city that houses the State Governor,
lias just started Worshipping solicitor Rupert
Wilks —a boyishffooking young man who is,
figuratively speaking, much too slight to
wear the rabbit skin. He has only been a
councillor for 15 months. Mrs. Rupert—a
fine type of the young Australian matron —
makes a handsome mayoress. Mrs. McKin-
ley, wife of the retiring mayor, was pre-
sented with a twinkling string of diamonds
by the Malvernites, who also placed a dia-
mond gaud upon his ex-Worship’s finger.
The other day, the woolly town of Hamil-
ton flocked to the wedding of Maud Fenton
and William Goodwin Beggs. Auctioneer
John Fenton gave his daughter away, and
Mrs. Fenton, in a wonderful black gown,
shed a few quiet tears over the farewell.
Nell and Molly Fenton, Miss Beggs and Miss
Philip made four pretty bridesmaids in lav-
ender and old lace. The newly-weds motored
away for the honeymoon, and, in the even-
ing, Mrs. Fenton and the bridesmaids
hostessed a dance in the Town Hall.
Ballarat’s wealthiest bachelor, Thomas
Loughlin, has allowed the Voice to breathe
o’er him in its richest brogue. The event
took place in Kilkenny, Ireland, and Thomas
and his bride are how inhaling the air of
freedom in Swiss cantons and other lofty
situations. The groom, who is 42, was long
regarded as incurably single. He owns a
big place at Warrenheip, and is reputed to
be worth a quarter of a million. He has
at different times handed about £15,000 to
various sporting and charitable institutions.
Also, he is known to have embarrassed the
R.G. Church with £60,000 in prodigal gifts.
For this he has naturally incurred the dis-
like of the Pope, who made Mr. Loughlin a
Knight of St. Gregory, to show his holy dis-
approval of such extravagance.
George Porteous, of the cherubic counten-
ance and silver hair, is taking to matri-
mony after a long bachelor career. The
lady with whom he is going into partner-
ship is the pretty widow of actor-manager
Maxwell.
The record-breaking Show is over; 153,350
people have witnessed the prize cow, the
windmills and the pumps; and at least
100,000 of them are suffering from swollen
feet. For some mysterious reason, the vice
of sitting down and resting is discouraged
by the Royal Agricultural Society as much
as possible. It is done by supplying only
a limited number of seats. The result is that
there are plenty of corns in Eygpt, and most
of them are aching. People with loose half-
crowns in their pockets have the grandstand
to sit in—if they get there early enough.
At parade time, that perch is crowded to
suffocation point. In the grounds the only
seats are attached to tea-tables which are
haunted by waiters. You have to eat and
drink, in order to occupy these chairs. If
you don’t, you must retire in favor of some
ravening sorefoot. You have, so to speak,
to rest your feet by subterfuge, and at extra
expense. The Society is knee-deep in cash,
and might, without injuring itself, provide
places where patrons could rest their weary
soles for nothing. Some shady trees, green
lawns and seats would cause such a down-
pour of blessings to descend that the com-
mittee would be forced to put up its
umbrella.
Golf is still raging in this locality. The
players and their friends are now wandering
in clubbed herds on the Metropolitan Links.
The male golfer is, occasionally, a vain crea-
ture. I recently noticed one of him with
cerise rings round the tops of his grey stock-
ings. Cherry-colored rosettes would have
finished the effect; but, apparently, he had
not thought of it. Architect Philip Hudson
has been altering the club house of the Royal
at Sandringham, and making it larger, so
that it will accommodate more residential
members. The rooms being built are lined
with polished hardwood, and perched high
over the terraces. These dens, which are
adorned with camp beds and simple furniture,
command fine views of rolling turf on one
side and surf on the other; also, you climb
to them up a breezy outdoor stairway.
One of the keenest players during the
practice games for the recent tournament was
a young priest, Father Roche.
The extinct pub in Victoria Parade, which
has been purchased by the Marshall-Hall
Conservatorium people needs a lot of altera-
tion before it becomes a fit place for top
notes to soar in. To help the building fund
along, the musical folk put their energies
into a matinee at Her Majesty’s, last Thurs-
day afternoon. The theatre was as full as if
it had been packed by hydraulic pressure.
Fortunately the Agricultural Show had
drawn many trainloads of people out of the
city, otherwise the place might have got over-
loaded and burst. The fat of the land was
present in large quantities, and the numerous
boxes were full of the very best social butter.
The Denman lady, wrapped in white ermine,
led the applause vigorously; she does not
pat her gloves delicately in the manner of
most Sassiety leaders, but really concusses
her hands, Pretty Lady Barttelot peeped
over the ledge of her pen in a black hat with
a delicate and beautiful veil. The rest of
her costume was black and tailor-made. Miss
Quirk, who was also present, is a droopy
young woman who affects pastel colors and
“art” cuts to her gowns. On Saturday, I
thought of the dressmaker in “Lady Fred-
erick,” who, doubtful of the compliment of
being called a “real artist,” remarks: “Well,
I would be ashamed of making some of the
dresses hung in the Royal Academy.” Sev-
eral aides filled in the odd spaces in the two
vice-regal boxes. A Sydney man occupied
another of the perches, and chatted with
three pretty girls in smart spring frocks.
Dolores, who sang a sweet song or two,
afterwards dimpled in a box. She was
wrapped in a scarlet-streaked grey kimono.
She did her warbling in white, with pearls
and diamonds sparkling and glistening on
her shoulders, while the pink health tint of
her real live complexion came and went
and came again in the full glare of the
footlights. Mrs. Pinschof, who waved butter-
colored feathers, entertained the artists in
her coop after they had made their stage
appearances.
The programme was on a high plane
throughout. Marshall-Hall, with the help
of his orchestra and chorus, rendered two
slices of “Faust.” Another weighty item
was a scene from Lytton’s “Richelieu,” with
Harry Hill as the Cardinal, and ’Lisbeth
Pinschof as Julie. An act from “Traviata”
and a playlet, “The Littlest Girl,” done by
Desmond and Winter Hall, also helped to
stretch the proceedings from 2 o’clock till a
quarter past 6, when the house rose stiffly
and tottered out in search of its evening re-
freshments. Meanwhile, however, the Gee-
Gees, being pledged to a complete patronage
and presence, wandered from one to other of
the two boxes like caged lions. They changed
seats, and varied their tete-d-tetes until every
chair and bit of standing room in the pens
must have had a whole series of occupants.
Four hours at a matinee, with the pangs of
hunger increasing as the time goes on, is an
ordeal indeed.
The Past Students (not such very Old
Girls) of the Loretto Convent foregathered
at Albert Park, last Monday night, and Pro-
fessor Tucker lectured to them on the abuse
of the King’s English in the home-made brand
of literature. The King’s English is mauled
by pen and tongue in sixty-nine different
ways in the land where it grows, and it has
to emigrate to Australia to get reasonably
fair treatment. The Australian is forced by
law to acquire a decent working knowledge
of the language, and, although he is occa-
sionally accused by tourists and others of
possessing a twang, a Caucasian from North
Bananaland has no difficulty in understand-
ing a white native of Westralia. It is not
so in England—at least I am told it isn’t.
Almost every county has its own brand of
dialect, and the native of one town spills
much beer in explaining to the native of
another hamlet what it was he really meant
to say before the disturbance took place.
After the lecture nice girls wearing blue and
silver badges handed round consoling refresh-
ments —and they were needed.
The ticket design for the forthcoming
Artists’ Ball, to be held in the Town Hall,
on the 15th, is signed by Laurie Tayler. It
shows a hornet-like dancer in black and scar-
let waving a mask before a fat, laughing
Pierrot, whilst a sad-looking Jester looks
on. The proceeds of the frivol go to help
the Marshall-Hall Conservatorium people
convert their extinct pub into a suitable
place for sonatas and other softgoods. The
students of the music factory who, for years
past, have been the tenantry of the Artists,
are selling the tickets as rubber shares sold
during the late, lamented boom. The Art
Students are reported to be laying in stocks
of feathers, with the intention of disguising
themselves as a tribe of Red Indians. The
unfurnished condition of several roosters I
have seen lately supports the rumor.
“The Arcadians,” as the Clarke and Mey-
nell comic opera crowd is always dubbed,
wandered through Melbourne the other day
on their way west. They overran town in
cheerful groups for a few hours; then, with
a waving of handkerchiefs, they resumed
their pursuit of the setting sun.
Henry Lingham is about to reappear on
the mat at the Austral Salon, and wrestle
with old dramatic subjects in Graeco-Roman
style. The event is fixed for Tuesday next.
Arthur Coppin and the Misses Burns and
Lazarus will assist the dauntless Lingham
in a series of scenes from classic story, “cor-
rectly costumed and staged.” Just now they
are all busy in the preparation of early
Roman and Greek “atmospheres,” which will
be bottled, as it were, and uncorked on the
eventful night. The native atmosphere of
the Salon, being charged with modern gases,
is unsuitable to blank verse dialogues be-
tween Hero and Leander, or Marc Antony
and Cleopatra.
During this tour, Dolores gathered
material for a unique Australian portiere
which is to hang in her home in the south of
France. It consists wholly of eucalyptus
buds, of which she gathered a few barrels
whilst in Maoriland. All the members of
the co. helped with the collecting. They
took long walks into the bush, and came, back
laden. The best haul was made when they
came upon a lonely splitter who was felling
trees. They acquired a few bushels there,
and the hospitable bush worker spent his
off time in carting them into town ; also, he
provided the party with milk and home-made
cake from his bachelor store. The sweet
singer had been ill before she started her
bush walks, and the doctor, with that fine
disregard for other people’s arrangements
which is characteristic of the profession, had
prescribed a long holiday and rest —in the
middle of a tour! Dolores shook her head
resolutely, and continued on her musical way.
However, much to her delight, the open-air
hunt for eucalyptus buds restored her health.
A patient jeweller bored the holes in the
buds, and the singer strung them in her
spare time. The color effect —dull green and
bronze —is very artistic.
Dolores has rural tastes. She keeps pedi-
gree cows, pigs, dogs and other animals at
her place, which is also the old home of
Madame Vandour, her inseparable companion
on all her journeys. Whenever they get
breathing time, they make for the peaceful
retreat. Antonia is almost continually
travelling, and never rents a house
since her experience as a full-blown
householder in London. During a pil-
grimage to the Show, last week, she sur-
prised her party by lingering critically before
each cow and pig. The lower chest notes
of many pigs are very fine. Also, if skilfully
irritated or excited with offerings of food,
they get off some delicious squeals in the
upper register.
The Catholic Ladies’ College has a Kin-
dergarten, and the Kinder had a blow-out
on Friday night. The very small pupils
dressed as grown-ups, and danced and
supped in adult manner. There was a Jose-
phine in full regalia on a miniature mea-
sure of about an inch to the foot, and a
Queen of Hearts had it much her own way.
Molly Holden, in pink roses and a torchon
frock and a mutch bonnet, was so well
dressed as to take a prize, and so begins her
feminine craze for finery and frippery. The
youngest Brenan sister, who is a big
C.L.C. girl, coached the youngsters in their
dance, which delighted mommers gazed upon
from a dais. The C.L.C. full-grown ball
was an affair of great moment about a
month ago, so this frivol was for kiddies
onlv.
From my Adelaide correspondent:—
The tote continues to shatter the last frail de-
fences of the bookmaking cause. In Tattersall’s
Handicap, on Saturday, Radlunga paid £6l. Peal
gave his backers over £l9 in the Spring Handicap,
and Netherton returned £lO 6s. for second place in
the Hurdles. How, in view of evidence like that,
backers in N. S. Wales and Victoria go on enduring
the old Moses is a mystery to all rational Adelaideans.
There weren’t many women at this meeting, the vice-
regal pen being empty. A spill in front of the stand
resulted in a broken leg for Sir Grenville, who’ had
to be destroyed.
The Hunt Club went to Salisbury on race dry.
Rain had made the roads sloppy, but the going for
the horses was excellent. About 500 road followers
saw most of a splendid run. A good many people
motored up from the city, 12 miles distant, and
others came by special train. Mr. and Mrs. Frank
Russell fed all hands at Paralowie at the end of
the day’s sport.
The Simpson Newlands (he of Murray Waters
fame) have been trying to sell their Burnside home
for some time. They have at last found a purchaser
in H. T. Ward.
Undelcarra has been the scene of much hospitality,
and at one time a hunt tea could be counted on
there as a natural part of the season’s programme.
The writer of “Paving the Way” has recently suffered
from a sharp attack of measles, but he's on the
mend now.
The Spring Show is due next week, as is duly
foreshadowed by fearsome bargains in the windows
of the cheaper shops; strange faces (and stranger
clothes) in the streets, and a cheerful disregard of
schedule time on the part of up-country trains. If
some of the cockies aren’t slain during the pending
festival it will be an everlasting mystery, for the
condition of our streets beggars description. Half of
the busiest corners are neatly railed off, while some
orgy of rail-setting or road-mending takes place
within, and as Show horses are usually led casually
down the most crowded thoroughfares, on the jour-
ney to and from the Show grounds, there should be
some excitement when they catch their first affrighted
glimpse of the electric trams.
There’s trouble in the Education Department. A
Mount Gambier school-teacher was dismissed, and
demanded a Ministerial inquiry. She got the in-
quiry, but apparently no satisfaction, so she has now
appealed to the Law, and Director Williams is cited
as defendant in a case to be heard next week.
When the W.O.T.U. gets hold of a notion, it clings
to it like a demented limpet. At present it is agi-
tating furiously re wines being allowed at the P.A.C.
Old Collegians dinner. The ladies have nothing par-
ticular to do with the college, and their acquaintance
with the merits of the case is indicated by the fact
that they urge pathetically that the accursed grape-
juice shall be kept from “college boys” —though all
the old collegians are grown up, and many are
hoary-headed. But trifling things like that don’t
weigh with your true-blue teetotal enthusiast.
Dr. Basedow has resigned his job of protecting
the N. Territory aborigines. “Geology” Brown is
also resigning, and it may be that the doctor hopes
to get back to his old loves—fossils and stones.
J. R. Beck, who up to now has worked for the
A.M.P., and in the intervals secretaried the Adelaide
Hunt Club and played lawn tennis, has gone on the
land. , .
From the West comes news of a new son for the
J. H. Gorses. Mrs. Gorse is a daughter of T. E. Barr
Smith, and went with her husband to the West early
in the year. ■ , .
The local golf tournaments resulted in a win, so
far as the lady’s championship went, for Mrs.
Fowler. The golfist is better known to fame as Miss
Florence Ayers, an ex-tennis champion, and one of a
family with something of a reputation for games.
She married a naval man.
Our recent dash of mid-summer heat was too much
for some of the oldsters. Among others, Mr. C. t.
Folland, of Enfield, passed over last week, aetat. 97.
He was about our frankest agnostic, and his name
often appeared at the foot of articles and letters
on the subject in the dailies.
On Friday officialdom and the Governor went to
Angaston, and “opened” the railway that has been
threatening the district for 30 years.
The T. R. Bowman estate has been finally locigea
for probate—paying some £16,000 on its £190,000
worth of property. A recent mail-boat bore to Eng-
land the Cecil Brays, she being one of the departed
squatter’s daughters. . ,
The Anglican Synod is in session, and our coffee
palaces and streets are full of melancholy black-
garbed men, with worried-looking wives, whose toilets
suggest speedy dressing and elusive hooks. In tne
intervals of tea-battles the clerics have foregathered
and discussed most things on earth, in Heaven and
elsewhere. They’ve voiced their objection to Easter
military camps, seeing that such revels interfere
with church-going, and cast a blight on the plate ,
also, they propose to take “vigorous measures con-
cerning good old “religious instruction in State
schools.” They beguiled the monotony of one_ sitting
by debating what narticular brand of clothing
parson should wear when exercising hisoffical
duties, and wound up by charging the Bishop with
Extreme Ritualism, at w.uch unlooked-for msilt
the holy man is understood to have leaped in tne
air as though stung by wild hornets.
One Rooney went to his reward on( Friday. He
fought in the Indian Mutiny, as a member ot tne
54th Foot.
Sincerely yours,
JOHNNA.


DEWARS
“IMPERIAL” WHISKY
tsaßinnußHinn
■hub
Ilk
*Y;
CSSs
|KJU
Iti
'ltei
B'
jiiimg
mi
tiuiiuaj
!$»
? \
irn
-A'Z'-k
-s 1
;)2
If life
v.,
Its
Jii
h l
tl
si
M
II
rJ
1
US!!
xiw;
ill
i« -
lg
it
Mi
iti
in.
til!
11l
'ills
188
!
SfeEii
. m
s.
m
>•
liiii
1$!
<O2
iS
<5
t; =
£
3s
Is?;
s*?<
**
5*
Bii
mi
•r*ss
fl-s-T
Bl
*s*
m
BBp?ss«gg! | f?a|; r »»»
£5
gawuS.fSjj,
gggjiiiW
Ki'
Mi
**l*
■un*
L»vV
k\
ar
9^
Sbc
A
\
=4
ws
/X
\Y.
7%\
>.
•if- .^v
/ /
•*«?
//
V .
r »
I’ll ■ I!
,f l ; i 7/
! ’> / 1
* •*)


SLEEPLESS
WITH SCIATICA.
♦
Feverish Nights of Suffering
With a Bad Attack.
♦
This Man tells how he Drove
it from his System with
Dr. Williams' Pink Pills.
An attack of Sciatica causing him many
sleepless, feverish nights was endured by
Mr. Henry Wilkins, of South Fremantle,
W.A., until he drove the complaint from his
system with Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills.
Mr. Wilkins is a wonderful old man of
over 80 years, who now enjoys splendid
health, works about the garden, and has
good sight, hearing and memory. He lives
with his married daughter, Mrs. M. Ma-
lacaki, on the Hamilton Road.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills have been found
to be of great benefit in treating Sciatica,
because it is a nervous disorder, and they
have proved of great value in toning the
nerves. When interviewed by a reporter,
Mr. Wilkins said :
“I had a very nasty attack of Sciatica a
few years back. In out-door work I would
very often get wet to the waist, going
through rushes and blackberry bushes, and I
suppose this was the original cause. It took
me slowly at first, and then increased
quite rapidly. I did not lie up with
it, I never would when ill unless
absolutely necessary, and I have gen-
erally enjoyed splendid robust health.
The pain was very great. I could hardly
walk, in fact I could rarely go out, and I
would have to press my hands to my hip;
that was the chief part affected. I dreaded
the night time, for as soon as I got settled
warm in bed the pain would start worse
than ever and bring on retching. I would
just have to lie and bear it. I could not
close my eyes until the attack eased off, and
then I might drop off into a doze. The sweat
just poured out of me. I was so feverish, I
was always longing for -water to drink.
Sharp pains like a knife-thrust would go
through the hip. I became a good bit pulled
down ; I could not eat or relish my food. At
last I tried Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills, and
gradually the Sciatica was driven out of my
system, and I am thankful to say has never
shown the least sign of coming back.”
The price of Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills is
2s. 9d. per box, six boxes 15s. 3d., and if
you have trouble in getting them send
a postal note for the amount to the Dr.
Williams’ Medicine Co. of Australasia Ltd..
Sydney, and they will be sent post free by
return mail.
I«IPTQKt
S u ff er e r s
everywh ere,
secure safety
and freedom
from discom-
fort in Den-
yer’s Special
Elastic
Truss. Made
to exact size,
ensures full
support and comfort. No irritating- springs. DENYER
BROS., Truss & Abdominal Belt Makers, 281
GEORGE STREET (opp. Hunter Street), SYDNEY ;
and at Melbourne, cor. Swanston & Lonsdale Streets.
DCNYER
17/6 Single;
22/6 Double.
Call or write.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Plain Bill Lyne, addressing the London
suffragettes, referred to the prophecy that
when Australian women got the vote they
would exercise it in favor of good-looking
candidates. Bill alleged that this prediction
had been falsified, as the women had helped
to send some particularly ugly men into
the Australian Parliament. Whereupon
London Punch, in a fairly bright moment:
“This not does prove anything. The unsuc-
cessful candidates may have been uglier
still.”
The Vie. Government, with the fear of
another general election before its eyes,
promises that the railways shall be worked
to a better political purpose than the earn-
ing of large departmental dividends. The
trucks that cheese-paring Tait wouldn't pro-
vide are to come along—l7oo before the end
of this year, and another 1000 by the middle
of next. Business profits are to be further
reduced in the interest of the farmer and
grazier, whose prosperous selves and abun-
dant produce will be carried at lower rates.
Firewood freights are to be cheapened, to
the advantage, possibly, of town consumers.
But the laying of new railway lines, to give
the western settler a short, straight, cheap
run to Portland, and the opening to trade
of that splendid, long-neglected harbor, are
not even dimly projected. The Weary Gov-
ernment is only looking ahead as far as the
imminent election.
The little forlorn-hope sheet run by the
single-taxers in Sydney remarks, in its last
issue, that “the recent utterances of Mr.
Wade on the land question show he is unfit
to hold any responsible position in the public
life of the country.”! Of course it is quite
true, only the Standard might just as well
have said that the Calamitous Person’s re-
marks on any question prove the same thing.
But the blinding sorrow of the business is
that the single-taxers habitually join with
the old Freetrade gang in voting for the great
“Liberal” party which the utterly unfit Wade
commands. In fact, dreary Lonsdale and
others actually fought with that party in the
very campaign in which Wade was guilty of
the “recent utterances.”
EAT AND GET THIN.
This is turning an old phrase face about,
but . modern methods of reducing fat have
made this revision possible.
If you are overfat, and also averse to phy-
sical exertion and likewise fond of the table,
and still want to reduce your excess flesh
several pounds, do this : Go to your chemist
and give him 3s. 6d. For this modest
amount of money the chemist will put you
in the way of satisfying your ambition for a
nice trim slim figure. He will hand you a
large case of Marmola Prescription Tablets
(compounded in accordance with the famous
Marmola Prescription), one of w r hich you
must take after each meal and at bedtime
until you begin to lose your fat at the rate
of 12 to 16 ounces a day. Tnat is all. Just
go on eating what you like; leave exercising
to the athletes, but take your little tablet
faithfully, and without a doubt that flabby
flesh will quickly take unto itself wings,
leaving behind it your natural self, neatly
clothed in firm flesh arid trim muscles. Mar-
mola Prescription Tablets are sold by all
chemists, price 3s. 6d., or sent post free on
receipt of price by The Marmola Company,
7 Barrack Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
NOTE. —For those who prefer the liquid
preparation, chemists are still dispensing
the famous prescription as follow.s: One
ounce of fluid Extract of Glycyrrhisa B.P..
one ounce of pure Glycerine B.P.. one half-
ounce of Marmola , and mix with pepper-
mint water to make six ounces in all. The
dose is two tcaspoonfuls after each meal.*
“M.L.C.’s” appreciation of Willis: —
'the further the present session of the N. S. Wales
Assembly proceeds, the more it is borne in on mem-
bers that Henry Willis is the best Speaker his State
has known since Edmund Barton. The new man’s
decisive attitude has opened people’s eyes to the fact
that McCourt, Cann, and the rest were weak creatures
after all. The chief reason why N. S. Wales has
borne the unsavorv reputation of owning the most
lawless, undisciplined, and generally disreputable
Parliament in Australia was because it has been
afflicted with absurdly-affable Speakers. Willis may
be a “political adventurer,” and all the rest of it,
but, certainly, he has courage, and he knows the
game he is playing from A to Z. His manner and
methods are closely modelled on those of the late
Frederick Holder, the most capable Speaker the
Australian Parliament ever knew. Before Willis’s
advent, the “push' legislators made trouble as a
matter of course, when things didn’t go their way.
Under this bad old system, the Speaker ruled, often
in a state of semi-chaos, with members standing or
half-standing, interjecting, cursing, muttering or
howling as the spirit moved them. With the phleg-
matic calm of the stout man, to whom nerves are
unknown, Willis waves dissentients into a humble
sitting posture and absolute silence, before giving
his ruling. And when the same is given, members
have to abide by it or go out.
UNITED AT LAST.
The Age for once agrees with the Argus lamentations on the Federal Government’s Referendum,
proposing the extension of the powers of the Arbitration Court.
GRANNY AGE (to Granny Argus ): “ Yes, love, I've often said some 'ard and bitter things
about yer; but let us forget the past in our common sorrer!”
“F.C.” writes:—
The democrats made another sensible innovation
at the opening of the Australian Parliament. Last
session Speaker and Senate President discarded the
horsehair kickshaws their predecessors used to wear,
and last week the Clerk and his assistant wore only
their own thatches, the blessed mace disappeared,
and Black Rod disremembered his absurd sword and
clothed himself like an ordinary sane person. Next
session the equally futile Address-in-Reply will pro-
bably forget to happen likewise. The State Par-
liaments still keep up the fripperies of the days
when men wore tin-plates on their chests and put
rat-traps on their countenances ; yet, considering the
associations of the Victorian mace, that brummy
affair should have been the first to be scrapped.
A LEADER'S GREAT ACHIEVEMENT.
N.S.W.: “My word, Mister Wade, you have
been getting yourself into a nice political
mess."
MISTER WADE: “ Never mind. Do you know
that I have had the pleasure of serving a
member of the Liberal party witi a writ? ”
Hobart Murky contributed a brief but
weighty utterance to the discussion re the
N.S.W. Speakership. It read :
shrdl shrdl shrdl shrdlu
emfwyp ppp
It was quite as bright as most of the lan-
guage used on the same subject.
Every day we see more plainly how Capi-
tal is being chivvied out of this country. The
latest Awful Example can be read in the
advts. of tlie Nestle Condensed-milk people,
wherein it is stated that at the recent Show
in Brisbane they entered 28 head of cattle
from their dairy herds, and scooped 34
awards. These cattle were from their farms
at Toogoolawah (Q.), where the co. runs
something like 1000 well-bred milk-producers
and a fair number of human families. The
same co. has another big factory at Benning-
ton (Vic.), which cheerfully gulps down ail
the milk the local farmers can pump from
Spot and Polly, and keeps bellowing for
more. Not so very long ago, it used to im-
port all its tinned milk, and the herds and
herders and factory hands browsed on the
hills of Switzerland and other countries. Of
course the transference of the business to Aus-
tralia is a Dreadful Thing for the country,
and a Shuddersome Sample of the evils of
Protection. Anyhow, no doubt that’s how
the Switzers regard it.
Governor Fuller has been wasting admira-
tion on “the agricultural patriotism of
wealthy gentlemen—whose names will read-
ily occur—who have spent money importing
the best stock from the Old Country.” Fuller
might almost as reasonably have extolled
the civic patriotism of the draper who im-
ports expensive “Paris models” for improv-
ing the breed of women’s cloaks and gowns.
Cattle-raising is a competitive business, like
fashionable clothes-making. The finest stock
fetches the best price in both cases. And a
general difference between the rent-paying
draper and the land-owning cattle-king is
that the one advertises the new season’s
goods, and the other cries out against the
new season’s ills in a Stinking Fish spirit.
The contractors for the
third section of the North
Coast (N.S.W.) railway
have surrendered their con-
tract to the Government on
mutually satisfactory terms.
One reason why the Gov-
ernment was anxious to
acquire the right to fin-
ish the job by day labor
was a clause in the con-
tract which entitled the con-
tractors to claim so much
per cubic yard for remov-
ing any part of the globe
which might fall into a cut-
ting after it had been passed
by the inspectors. At one
point of the line a huge hill-
side cutting had just been
completed, when heavy rains
dissolved the rest of the hill
and spread it over the vicin-
ity, and as the earth to be
removed was required for
filling-in purposes a short
distance further on, the con-
tractors were on a good wicket. However,
they had their own reason's for giving un the
business ; and now the Minister for Works
is gaffer of the gang.
The petrol chariot of Fat. which grunts like
a mad pig, throws up the dirt, and leaves m
offensive odor behind, is highly inflammable,
and it is likely to burn frequently in
future contests between Labor and its
owner. The Automobile Association of Eng-
land, the other day, offered the British Gov-
ernment the use of 50,000 cars and the ser-
vices of 35,000 members for the next indus-
trial argument. So the Fat will throw oil
on the troubled waters, and the Lean will
drop a light on top of the oil, and the
troubled waters will blaze like the very devil.
Adelaide Municipal Tram Trust is making
a big dent in the feelings of the people by
getting its car castings from America and
its rails from Germany. But for an ener-
getic protest it would have obtained the car
bodies also from the Canned Beef Country,
but they are being made in Adelaide.
ST. GREGORY, V.C.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Intrigue has been going on for months past to
such an extent that the public at large must be dis-
gusted.—Charles Gregory Wade.
I’ve read of many Noble Blokes beyond corruption’s
reach,
And Aristides was a theme my tutors used to teach ;
But even Aristides in his glory wasn’t made
Of such peculiar marble as the righteous Mr. Wade.
He finds that all of Belial’s sons against him are in
league;
He’s flabbergasted by their wiles, and shocked by
their intrigue ;
lie looks in pious horror on the things they dare to
do,
And whoever differs from him is a Judas through
and through.
I scarcely like to meddle with these sacred subjects,
yet
When Wade's disciples start to yell, one thing I
can’t forget,
That ordinary reverence in this is sacrificed,
For if Willis is a Judas, then Wade must be a Christ.
With all respect to Mr. Wade, I’ll boldly bet my hat
That, though he is a plaster saint, he’s not so high as
that;
And when he puts his halo on, I’d like him to devote
One moment to recalling how he snared the Syrian
vote.
There was a Compact (was there not?): while Jimmy
was away
The Saint would make no trouble ; and just look at
lrim to-day !
And there are other mysteries which make the sinner
doubt
The Wade who played the Hero till the papers bowled
him out.
He is a rather speckled Saint, this Wade whom we
behold,
And patches linger on him yet, from scandals not so
old; '
It makes a very spotty and a very piebald sight
When men with dirty fingers don a robe of dazzling
white.
VICTORIA.
T.
THE STRIKER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A strike of doctors for higher pay is at present
seriously embarrassing the Defence department. They
decline to examine the junior cadets unless they re-
ceive 2s. 6d. a head, and as this is regarded by the
department as beyond its means, the enrolment and
inspection of lads of 12 and 13 years of age is at
a deadlock.- —Melbourne Age.
Lo ! how the grasping Unionist
Demands what pay he likes,
And, failing to secure the same,
Incontinently strikes.
Time-honored economic laws,
Revered in ev’ry land,
Demand. .. .Supply. .. .their interplay,
He cannot understand.
The warnings of Bruce Smith, M.T.,
On his dull brain are lost;
He clamors for a higher wage
Regardless of the cost.
He does not grasp that by such acts
The value of his pound
Is shrunk by 25 per cent. ;
The Socialistic hound !
The people who provide his fees
Supply him, too, with food
And liquor and habiliments
And coal and boots and wood.
The more he charges then for health,
The more they sock it in
To him and his for meat and drink—
The thing’s as clear as Sin.
And yet—insensate Anarch'st
And dullard that he is!
He will not take his sweated pay
In thankfulness and bliss.
The Philosophic Liberal
Stands stupent at such deeds:
The Thoughtful Citizen is shocked,
His heart with anguish bleeds.
But Doctor Brown, M. 8., M.D.,
Heeds not their grief and race,
As cheek-by-jowl with Navvy Smith
He seeks a living wage.
N.S.W.
10-2-4.


15he CLAVIO LA-PIANO.
fvV
'-><3
r K
*r
p?
f
,v •
i ?
4-
•S’
A Superb
Combination of a
Roniscb or
Lipp Piano
and 1
Solo-
Claviola.
Tbis glorious instrument is playable by band, or
by means of tbe Claviola Music Rolls, tbus
making piano-playing a deligbt for all.
By reason of its surpassing' excellence of design,
construction and finis b, tbe CLAVIOLA
PIANO appeals to all wbo desire to possess
THE WORLD’S FINEST PLAYER-PIANO.
Call and Hear It, or Write for Catalogue.
___ __ __ . _ __ ___ . „ _ 338 GEORGE STREET,
W. H. PALING (Si Co., Ltd., Sydney
and at Brisbane, Newcastle and Toowoomba.
Beauty’s Favourite.
The article which excels all others
in improving; the beauty of the skin
is naturally and deservedly beauty’s
favourite. This has been the
acknowledged and honoured
position held by Pears* Soap for
nearly 120 years. It won, and has
maintained that position by virtue
of its complete purity, and by the
possession of those special emollient
properties which soften, refine,
and impart natural colour to the
skin. No other soap possesses
these qualities in such a pre-
eminent degree as
PEARS
Matchless for the Complexion.
Men’s Nickel-Plated Needs
u
Triple Toilet Mirror. Bevelled (B-’ss, M ’>kel to stand
hang. Size —
Ti x 5
±O/ 6
9x6 Size —10J x 74
25/- 37/6
13 x 9
47/6
hgf
Nickel Shaving: Set, with
Porcelain Lining, as
illustration. Price, 5/6.
Similar Designs. Price, 3/3.
ghgh
Cut-glass Tobacco Jar, with Nickel -
plated Cups, on Oak Base, and Stand
for 4 Pipes (as illustrated). Price, 21/-
a*
Nickel and Wood Pipe
Back, to hold 4 Pipes
(asillustrated). Price,B/6
Farmer’s
Sterling
Value.
<*•
Nickel and Glass Ash Bowl, with
Cigar Cutter and Match Holder
(as illustrated) 5/6
With Cigar Rests.. 6/- and 8/6
FARMER’S, SYDNEY


All Are United
In saying that for all Stomach Troubles there is no
remedy like Dr. Sheldon’s Digestive Tabules. Price,
2s. 6d. per tin of 80 Tabules.*
WORMS.
SOME STRIKING SYMPTOMS.
A child who is afflicted with worms will
often be in an indifferent state of health.
It becomes peevish and irritable, and will
have a strong tendency to pick the nose, and
there will be severe itching of
gh
the lower bowel. Grinding the
teeth and suddenly starting up
in the sleep will also be
noticed. The bowels are irre-
gular, sometimes constipated,
and at other times relaxed,
with bloody discharges as in
dysentery, and not infrequently
the discharges will be in flakes
and shreds, which might be
taken for partly-digested food.
The best proof of Worms is
Worms, and if their presence
is suspected, immediate steps
should be taken to positively establish the
fact, and once established, Comstock’s “Dead
Shot” Worm Pellets should be administered
according to directions. Worms require a
specific medicine, and there is no remedy so
effective as these Pellets. They kill the
Worms, destroy their eggs, and dislodge their
Comstock’s “Dead Shot” Worm Pellets
are a purely vegetable preparation for the
eradication of Worms in children and adults.
For sale by all chemists and storekeepers,
price 2s. 9d. per packet, or will be sent post
paid at the same price by the W. H. Com-
stock Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street, Church Hill,
Sydney.
gh
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BY
APPOINTMENT
g
TO
H.M. THE KINCL
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBS & CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrubb & Co. on each Bottle.
ĝh
RESCN’S
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents—RtCHAßO H4LMES A CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLQARDIE.
Brewert and Offices :
Dowling Street, REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
The decease of J. J. Miller’s Racing
Chronicle leaves the Argus publication—the Rac-
ing Calendar —in sole possession of the Victorian
field, as of yore. J. J. Miller’s Chronicle was a
plucky effort against an old monopoly. The Calen-
dar was a dilatory and incomplete annual record of
gee-gee events, published at 30s. J.J.M. brought
out his handy little Chronicle in half-yearly vol-
umes, at ss. a time. A large circulation would have
kept it going even at 55., but seemingly the principal
purchasers of books of Turf reference are not in a
hurry. The annual book, considerably belated in the
publication, was good enough for them. Besides, the
Argus shook up the Calendar— brought it out earlier
in the season, and reduced the price to 20s. On the
other hand, the Chronicle’s price rose to 7s. 6d.,
and afterwards to 10s, but even at the advanced figure
its two issues a year should have given it the pull
over the rival publication. All the same, the loss
continued, so its 31st appearance was its last. J. J.
Miller’s cheerful notice of the Chronicle’s decease
reminds one that his Sporting Pamphlet (which
summarises the performances of all the entrants for
the big Spring handicaps) is still going strong. The
veteran’s photo, is published on the forefront of the
latest Pamphlet, with the announcement that this
is its 35th year, and his 80th. J. J. Miller, if
not the only survivor of the Early Fathers of the
Australian betting ring, is certainly the only one
who retains a business connection with horse-racing.
The Pamphlet links him with the time of the first
Melbourne Cup (1861), when he was a spry young
bookmaker, and an all-round sport. In after years
his Sweeps made his name a household word, but a
crowd of cronk imitators rushed into the “consulta-
tion” game, and then the Law got on to it, and Miller’s
sweeps were swept away with the rest. After which
Adams arose, with a new method of gaining public
confidence, and Tattersall’s became a national institu-
tion.
Dead in Adelaide, Charlie McEnhill, for-
merly one of S.A.’s best jockeys. He won the Grand
National Hurdles on Ebb, a-nd before that had a
lot of winning mounts as a light-weight for Quinn’s
stable.
Tattersall’s race-meeting at Randwick
(Sydney), on Saturday, enticed over 20,000 to battle
with Dermot Mac Moses in the foolish desire to wax
fat —-and how miserably they failed. Of the six
events, only two fell to favorites, Moses heroically
offering 6 to 4 on one of them. Three of the others
started at anything between 12 and 20 to 1. The
chief event (Chelmsford Stakes, weight-for-age) was
won by the Maorilander Los Angelos, with Flavinius
and Bright Laddie in the other places, and the pick
of other N.S.W. prads creeping furiously behind. As
Los Angelos started at 12 to 1, the handful among
the multitude who defeated Shamrock Moses re-
ceived a fair return. The “double” of the day—
Tramway and Spring Handicaps—were gathered in
by outsiders Grist and Flava, with the heavily-backed
gee-gees trailing behind, accompanied by the smile
of the Man with the Bag.
The meeting was a pipe-opener for the
A.J.C. (Derby) meeting, which begins at Randwick
at the end of the month, and nearly all the big guns
were saddled up. The downfall of candidates, which
held favorite places for the Derby, Epsom and
Metrop., gave punters the usual opportunity to keep
their heads in bandages; but, as many of the candi-
dates were obviously only “out for a run,” the
downfall and bobbing-up of the gee-gees may perhaps
be taken with a bagful of salt.
* * * *
Blairgour—which the bookmakers have
kept at the head of the Epsom betting market since
the weights were loosened —finished second last in a
field of 25 in the Tramway Handicap at Randwick,
on Saturday, and was thereupon pushed to the other
end of the quotations. The prad was knocked about
greatly during the race, and, if it was a scheme to
settle his chances in future events, the attempt was
very nearly successful.
Prince Foote (alleged to have been backed
in the past two weeks for the Melbourne Cup) ran
like a commoner in the Chelmsford Stakes on Satur-
day, and finished near the tail-end. Which isn’t very
reassuring to punters. However, there wasn’t very
much reason why he should have performed any
better (it being his first run for a long while) ; and
he has plenty of time to improve before the Cup
meeting happens along.
* * * *
The horse contingent from Maoriland went
down badly at Randwick on Saturday. Los Angelos’s
success in the big event probably lightened the
horse-feed account of one stable; but other runners
froni the Ricketty Isles didn’t accomplish much.
Vice-Admiral was pounced upon as a “good thing”
for one of the events, and other prads were be-
friended, so the meeting wasn’t very prolific from a
M.L. point of view. However, there is plenty of
boodle left, and plenty of time to reap it; and the
M.L. clans will probably have a fist into it before it
is all over.
» * * *■
Australia’s Bill Lang, recently alleged by
the Mclnstoush to be the hope of the white race for
the overthrow of the sons of Ham (and chicken),
who have captured the front seats in pugdom, was
made a holy show of last Saturday night at the
Sydney Stadium. A party named Jack Lester, who
dropped in from some old where in Canada, went
20 rounds with him, and got a points’ decision.
This is the same party who was disqualified a few
months ago, in a match against Lang, for going down
before receiving a blow. Although his action at
that time was apparently the result of a misappre-
hension, it did Tommy Burns’s protSgS no good, so
that there was little business doing at 3 to 1 or 4
to 1 in favor of Lang on Saturday night, when the
two faced each other for the second encounter. The
battle was the hardest yet seen in the Stadium, and
although Lang was in as good fighting trim as ever
he was, the 20-year-old Canadian took everything
that Bill could send his way without showing any signs
of wear and tear to speak of, piled up points in the
last few rounds, and wound up as fresh as Bill was
otherwise. All of which is bad enough, but when
the said Bill reflects that his conqueror is raw and
utterly inexperienced, what consolation shall he
find? There never looked a more down-hearted man
as he sat with bowed head after “Snowy” Baker had
given the decision, and listened to the uproarious
cheers that heralded his downfall. Never —unless it
was the fistically-deceased Bill Squires who was in
Lang’s corner.
Except for its strenuousness the battle had little
to commend it. Lester displayed about 3in. of
science to the square yard of undefined biff. Lang,
with long experience, could do nothing to stop his
whirling opponent, and if it had been a “finish”
fight, the Australian would probably have been
knocked out, despite the fact that he was in good
trim. Billiam advances the excuse that his hand
went back on him again, and that he was not pro-
perly well. No good! Billiam is a second-rater
that’s all.
The unknown Lester, by defeating Lang, gets a
pass into the upper circles of the game, and as
things stand he should represent the white man
against McVea, Langford, or even Johnson at the
Stadium this season. He is an unassuming lad, and
although his chance of walloping the big coons
seems hardly worth hoping for, Australians will hope
on just the same. He has the qualities from which
champions are built, and can take punishment like
a wooden man, but he is woefully inexperienced, and
he hasn’t time to make up the deficiency before the
murky brigade will be hurling upper-cuts and other
discourtesies at him. Still he is lucky to get the
opportunity that the Mclnstoush will probably give
him within the next few months, and even if he
gets all the kicks he’ll certainly get a fair cut of
the ha’pence. And, anyhow, it is better to have
bashed and failed than had no chance to bash at all.
* * * *
Lester’s next fight will be on September
30, against Sam McVea, the colored man, who is
expected to wear Johnson’s ring-shoes when that gold-
mounted hunk of ebony steps out, or is biffed out, of
them. #
Old-time stousher Monte Andrews met
Joe Wallis in a 20-round argument at the Gaiety
Athletic Club (Sydney) last week, and although hog-
fat and minus that agility which is, alas, the mono-
poly of youth, got the decision over Joseph on points.
The fight went the full 20 rounds.
* * * *
The defeat of Hackenschmidt by Gotch
might be taken as the text for a sermon to young
athletes. Failing health, rather than advancing
years, explains why the really phenomenal Hacky
could be downed twice within 12 minutes or so by
a man 171 b. lighter than himself. The Russian is
still on the right side of 33, hardly so old as to be
past his wrastling prime—yet he was unable to make
a decent show against the man whom he kept busy
for two hours in their questionable bout three years
ago. As a matter of fact, Hackenschmidt has never
“taken care of himself” since the time when, as a
verv young man, he beat the Terrible Turk in London.
When he first came to Australia, in 1905, he told
his friends confidentially he had lost some of his
strength, and this was the 26-year-old “lion” _ who
could do as he liked with wonderful Buttan Singh,
after he had casually disposed of Buttan’s colored
mate on the same mat. The original Hacky was
probably the strongest, quickest, and most versatile
wrastler of all time. Now he is a back-number,
damaged in constitution.
By a strange coincidence the cable news of Hacky’s
easy defeat appeared on the same day in Australia as
the report or Clarence Weber’s match with Alex-
ander Bain. Hacky was something of a mentor to
Weber five years ago, and he always declared that the
statuesque young strong man lacked only craft and
“devil” to "make him a world’s champion on the
mat. Weber acquired the necessary vim (and he
needed all of it) to win the Australian champion-
ship from Buttan Singh, who was just half a century
old at the time. Meanwhile, he has been gaining
experience in his own wrestling school. Bain, the
Scotchman (15st. 81b.), seemed a mere novice in his
hands. Within three minutes of actual wrastling the
challenger had lost two falls, and the crowd in Mel-
bourne, like the 30,000 crowd in Chicago, noted the
fact that a genuine championship “go” is usually a
much more rapid affair than the ordinary match,
which is intended to pile up the agony for another
one. # #
Footballers and barrackers in the eastern
half of Sydney held high revelry last week-end,
owing to successes in the various competitions. In
the Rugby League premiership, Eastern Suburbs ac-
counted for both grades; while East Sydney demol-
ished Y.M.C.A. under the Australian Rules code.
The rest of the city had to be content with a halo
of bandages.
* * * *
Eastern Suburbs and Glebe provided a
strenuous struggle for the N.S.W. Rugby League
premiership, on Saturday. The event was patronised
by about 20,000 barrackers. Throughout the struggle
Eastern Suburbs held the upper hand, and from the
moment Messenger booted a goal 2min. after the
kick-off, Glebe never once raised the hope that it
possessed a winning chance. The first half ended
with East leading (14 points to 5) ; and in the
second section, Glebe dropped further to rearward,
until, at whistle-time, the scores were: Eastern
Suburbs 22, Glebe 9. These figures just about repre-
sented the difference between the teams on the day’s
play. Easts scored four tries to one by Glebe;
Messenger booted five goals (10 points), towards
East’s tally, and Algie shot two goals for Glebe.
The final will be played off between these teams next
Saturday, after which the blind will be finally
pulled down for the season.
The second-grade final provided a spark-
ling curtain-raiser, in which Eastern Suburbs
trampled over Glebe by 12 points to nil, and for the
fourth successive season tacked the second-grade
honors to their jersey.
Two bands of toughs, masquerading under
a sanctimonious title in the N.S.W. Church Rugby
Union, supplied another football riot in Sydney, on
Saturday. When the referee stopped the game, or
pitched battle,- the two, teams and their barrackers
were laying down the law under the Marquis of
Cain’s rules, and, as this is the second occasion on
which a somewhat similar disturbance has taken
place between these two pushes, it is up to the
Synod or Presbytery or Rugby Union, or other re-
sponsible religious body, to make some vigorous re-
marks. * * *
Australian Rules football this season has
been full of surprises, and the premiership final on
Saturday provided another boil-over. Y.M.C.A. and
East Sydney clashed at Erskineville Oval. Except
in the first quarter, when Y.M.C.A. led by 21 points
to 14, the game belonged to East Sydney, and, when
knock-off time arrived, the score was—East Sydney
61, Y.M.C.A. 28, the latter team registering only
seven points in the final three-quarters of the game.
Sydney (minor premiers) will play a challenge match
with East Sydney on Saturday, after which the in-
flation will be allowed to escape from the pig-hide
until next year. .
The semi-final for the Gardiner Cup (Syd-
ney Soccer) was a close thing. Balmain A and
Balmain B met to decide who was to meet Powerful
for the final, and A team got the verdict by one goal
to nil. On Sydney Cricket Ground No. 2, Powerful
will next Saturday argue with Balmain A as to
whether the King’s Navee shall keep the Cup an-
other year, or hand it over.
Something like a walloping was recorded
when Cananore (Southern champions) and North
Launceston (cock-o’-the-North) clashed for the Tas-
manian football premiership (Australian rules) at
Hobart, on Saturday. The Southerners trampled on
the other section of the Flyspeek by 114 points to 10.
Some 43,575 folk crowded into the Metro-
politan Cricket Ground at Yarra bank (Melb.l on
Saturday. The menu for the day comprised an
entree in the shape of a Metropolitan Ass. semi-final
between Beverley and Collegians—won by the latter
and, as joint, the first League semi-final between
South and ’Wood. This was remindful of paper-bag
cookery, inasmuch as all went well till the dish was
half cooked, then the bag broke or something, and
everything went to pieces. Up to half-time ’Wood
was 3 goals 7 behinds to South’s 2 goals 7 behinds.
On resuming, ’Wood staggered everybody, and
smashed South’s hopes by taking entire charge of
the proceedings, and piling up five consecutive goals
while Skinner’s Hirelings could compass but one.
South’s last-quarter task was impossible, but its
barrackers couldn’t see it. The red-and-whites, by
vigorous rushes, forced the ball down thrice, each
time getting a goal; then they got a behind —and
two goals would give them victory. The barrackers
were delirious. But then the Magpies took full
charge, piled up three additional goals in almost as
many minutes, and ran into the final with a tally
of 11 goals 11 behinds to South’s 6 goals 11 behinds.
The “gate” was £1624 6s. 6d., which compares
somewhat favorably with the Association’s first
semi-final “gate” of £250.
That body was simultaneously holding its second
semi-final, between Essendon and P’ran, on the North
Melbourne ground, before a moderate assemblage.
Up to the midway interval the ’Dons had all the best
of the deal —with 48 points to 25. Then P’ran put
its best foot forward, and got within two points, but
the effort was too great, and in the last term the
red-and-blacks managed to get five points further
out of danger, the ultimate tally being: ’Don, 8
goals 9 behinds to P’ran’s 7 goals 8 behinds. But
these ’Don’s are an unreliable lot, and writer’s
opinion is that, if their two chief goal-getters were
better watched, they would be easily beaten. They
now meet Brunswick in the final, but have two
chances to ’Wick’s one.
Sydney athletes are promised a big blow-
out on September 23, under the wing of the N.S.W.
Rugby League. On the professional side there will
be a 130yds. world’s championship struggle between
Jack Donaldson and C. E. Holway, and also a £2O
handicap; while for the amateurs there will be a
£lO handicap (open order) —the tallest amount
allowed under the laws of lily-white amateurism.
The ladies will also be attended to with the 75yds.
championship.
* * * *
The annual Beverley-Perth (W.A.) road
race this year produced a record for the journey. A.
Kaiser (17min.), who finished seventh, did the 116
miles in shr. 58min. 32 l-ssec., whereas the previous
fastest was 6hr. 30sec., done in 1909. The winner,
E. M. Gray (Perth), with 42min. handicap, covered
the distance in 6hr. 2min., with H. Ridley (Kal-
goorlie) second.
* * * *
“All About Cycling.” published by the
Dunlop Co., is as good as its title, and a penny
stamp sent to Dunlop’s will bring anybody a copy.
• * * *
The programme compiled by the Board of
Control in connection with the visit of the English
XI comprises 20 matches. The customary five
“tests” will be played to a finish; four days are
allotted to return matches with N.S.W., Victoria,
and South Australia; and three days to a single
match with Queensland. An “XI of Australia” will
confront the English XI at Brisbane; matches
against Hobart and Launceston will absorb the visit
to Tasmania ; while the remaining fixtures are two-
day picnics against Toowomba (Q.), Newcastle and
Hunter (N.S.W.), Bendigo, Ballarat, and Geelong
(Vic.). So, if the Englishmen have anything to
growl about (which, of course, they never do), it
won’t be that they are overworked.
* * * *
South Australia, Victoria and N.S.W. will
battle for the Sheffield Shield between the English
fixtures; Queensland will get a return State match
or two, though, thusfar, its inclusion in Sheffield
Shield cricket isn’t countenanced; and a Tassy team
may raid the mainland at any time. As for West-
ralia, it is pushed off the cricket map, although an
effort is being made to get the incoming English
XI to drop the kit and play a match at Perth on
the backward journey.
* * * * *
Rockhampton (Q.), which felt sore over
the refusal of the S’Afriean googlies to go up that
far, is now scheming to get a visit from the coming
Bullstein eleven Mount Morgan, alongside, has never
done much at cricket, but when it thinks of its
football it can only wear a very large size in hats.
Sydney baseball premiership fell softly into
the arms of Leichhardt, owing to Paddington being
too weary to play the postponed match. Still, Leich-
hardt’s win wasn’t out of turn, as the team, which
has lent a hand in the premiership turmoil since its
inauguration in 1900, has only gathered in the
bauble once previously (1902).
* * * *
Petersham gathered in the Sydney lacrosse
premiei'ship on Saturday, defeating Sydney by eight
goals to five, after a splendid exhibition. At half-
time the scores were four all; but in the second half
Sydney threw away scoring opportunities, and was
sent home the victim of its own bad judgment. This
is the third season in succession that Petersham has
hung the premiership in its humpy.
The recent ladies’ championship footrace
at Sydney has brought out some more fast women,
and challenges are as thick as hatpins in Johnson’s
tram-cars. Miss Moore, who holds the amateur title,
will make an effort to go the pace faster than any
other amateuress in the championship event on Satur-
day week; and, if that is accomplished, will con-
front Miss Ivy Evans (of Victoria) for the Austra-
lian professional championship. There is quite a
host of other ladies anxious to leg it for gold and
glory, and some of them are likely to be accommo-
dated in the near future.
* * * *
Burgess’s swim across the Channel differed
considerably in its conditions from Matthew Webb’s
famous feat. Webb, who used the breast stroke, ana
pegged away at much the same pace all the time,
was reckoned to have covered 35 miles in the 21}
hours he stayed in the water. The sea was four
degrees colder than Burgess found it, and tabloid
forms of nourishment were not available in 1876.
Webb followed pretty closely the course he had
planned, and prepared himself for the job in the
way his seafaring experience suggested. He had
been the captain of a small merchant sailing vessel.
He made only two attempts. Rough weather stopped
him early in the first try ; the second did the trick.
Burgess made 13 unsuccessful attempts. Appar-
ently he started his fourteenth at a fair racing pace,
with the idea of making a comparatively short jour-
ney across, but was carried far out of his course.
How many miles he was estimated to cover the cable
doesn’t say. Less than 30, perhaps. Anyhow, he
was 23} hours in the water, two hours longer than
Webb’s time. Considering that he had a remark-
ably smooth sea all the way, with a high tempera-
ture, and took two hours longer than the record to
cover a shorter distance than Webb swam with the
old breast stroke, it would seem that Burgess’s stay-
ing power was more passive than active. As a
Channel-swimming hero he doesn’t figure so pictur-
esquely as Matthew Webb, the huge-chested, blue-
eyed blonde, with classical features, and an aspect
that would have been Greek god-like, but for his
trim, flax-colored mo. Burgess, judging from photos,
is a swarthy fellow, with a long, bridgeless nose,
and a thick, unlovely growth of black beard, side-
whiskers and mo. His eye suggests the pertinacity of
the fanatic, and, now that he has bracketed his name
with Webb’s, he may be persuaded to try a swim
across Niagara Falls, where the gallant Captain of
old met his death. At the time it was said that
Webb attempted the impossible, but later student)
of the silly question have argued that he was tin
lucky in striking a snag.
Fogwell will have to come back to Au«-
tralia without the great English prize. On Monday
he rowed Barry for the Fog championship, the
Sportsman Cup, and £2OO a side. The race was
over the Thames championship course (4} miles),
and Barry paddled home four lengths to the good,
after being at one time eight lengths ahead. The
time was 22min. 4sec.
“Crack” billiardists are as much disheart-
ened by a hopeless prospect as the crudest amateurs,
seemingly. They make an up-hill struggle for just
as long as a reasonable offchance of victory remains,
but, when the figures have become appalling, they
take the “knock.” In Melbourne, a few weeks back,
even the veteran Stevenson dropped away beaten when
Lindrum, at a critical point in the' race, started to
increase his handicap lead. And then the young
Australian, with success practically assured, cast
anxiety to the winds, and played masterly, all-round
billiards. In Sydney, the position was reversed.
Stevenson overhauled the receiver of points from
the outset, and, as he drew nearer, he had Lindrum
dead beaten. The “boy” couldn’t play for nuts or
sour apples. In Melbourne, last week, Williams
had nearly succeeded in distancing Lindrum in their
Australian championship race, when the latter made
up his lost ground. The Englishman faltered, and
presently Lindrum had him beaten. It was a case
of Confidence winning easily from Despair.
George Gray, the Australian billiard won-
der, conceded W. Smith, jun., 2250 in a match of
5000, and when Smith had run his points to 4126
and Gray had scored only 1808, the Australian
stepped down rather than be beaten outright. That
he wasn’t off-color seems to be proved by the
fact that the same evening he gave Bedford, the
Cleveland champion, 250 in 750, and ran out while
his opponent added 289 to his handicap. Gray has
played about 40 matches in England, and gets his
first humiliation from a person named Smith. He
has made 23 separate breaks of over 1000. There
will be no new billiards champion of Australia yet.
Williams thought there should be, and he tried to
persuade Lindrum ; but Lindrum won the argument.
The final scores were: Lindrum, 8000; Williams,
6205. Lindrum’s average for the match was 35.8,
and Williams’s 27.8.
GOING OUT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Johnson lias informed Mr. Mclntosh that after he
has met McVea, Langford and Lang he intends to
retire from the ring.— Argus.
When he has had a few fights more,
Jack Johnson’s scrappings will be o’er.
He’ll go out with the championship,
None leaving on the earth to whip.
With oof to burn, he’ll take his fling,
And shape no more within the ring.
We’ve heard this little tale before
Of champion fighters half a score.
Oft from the ring in straits most dire
The mighty Johnson will retire.
Two men ’twill need to force retreat,
One at his head, one at his feet.
Till finally his backers stout
Don’t care again to tow him out.
VICTORIA.
BILLY i.


Jil
fences to
build:
A Ml
u c
iiH
SK(=«=
V
Young trees to
plant or any
earth boring to
do, you will find the
IWAN POST HOLE DIGGER
me greatest of all earth
boring tools. It cuts
the hole just the size
for the post, in a frac-
tion of the time taken
with bar and spade, and
no time is lost ram-
ming. ■ Works in all
conditions and kinds of
soil —not rock. On a
fencing job 120 ten-inch holes can
be easily bored in a day. or 200
smaller sizes. By extending the
pipe bar the IWAN POST HOLE DIGGER
bores down to 35 feet. Empties
with a shake; is built rigid—stays
rigid—has no adjustable parts to
wobble about or stick.
You Need the Iwan!
3456 7 89 10 12 Min.
7/- 7/- 7/- 7j- 7/6 8 6 9/6 10/- 27/- 34/-
OUR CATALOGUE
illustrates and prices a
multitude of Tools for
every conceivable use.
It’s a Money-saver—and
Post Free.
Write Dept. “M.”
thos. McPherson & son
Tbe House for Tools,
55 iS&j and 582-588 COLLINS ST.,
MELBOURNE.
'm
Yon get more Fuel Miles
out or
"SHELL'
tban oat of any other Motor Spirit
7774 TS WHERE ITS PER-
FECT PURITY SAVES YOU
MONEY.
; *
AC €TY L€N€
COMPARED
with other illuniinants proved
itself the neaiest approach to
sunlight—a brilliant steady
soft white light. Is economic
—5O candle-power for 5 hours
for 2d. Brandt’s Latest Auto-
matic Improved generators
are simple, durable, safe,
economic—principles so essen-
tial in a good generator. Send
for pamphlet.
BRANDT Bros., Ltd.,
LAMPHOUSE,
236 Pitt Street, Sydney,
Elizabeth St., Melbourne
i
TROUCHETS
DIUREHTIC
KIDM&BMDDER
REMEDY
A CORRECTIVE
OF THE
URINARY
ORGANS
ff/6
IT IS
ALSO A
SPLENDID
TOM 1C
Obf&mcib/e &// Ch&m/sts
iKKrs
Sole Austr&f&si&n Agents. 73 YORK ST.3YDNEY
£HEAP, Second-Hand 15BrakeH.P.
TANGYE GAS ENGINE,
IN GOOD ORDER.
Apply Manager, “BULLETIN” OFFICE,
214 George Street, Sydney.
THE PERMANENT
TRUSTEE COMPANY
of New
South Wales
Limited
Funds under Administration, Upwards of £3,200,000.
Incorporated 1888 by Special Act of Parliament to act as
Executors, Trustees, Attorneys, Agents, etc
Cost of Estate Administration Largely Curtailed under this Company’s Method.
AMPLE SECURITY AND EFFICIENT MANAGEMENT ASSURED.
17 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
Write for Full Particulars, sent Post Free.
A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager.
irAPTLLAPTNF. THE MOUSTACHE PRODUCE
gh
g
The Surest Moustache Grower.
None of the preparations for producing Moustaches which have
appeared from time to time have equalled or outlasted
CAPILLARINE.
The reason for its success is that it has never failed to grow a full
Moustache whenever used during the last 30 years.
PRICE 10/G, Post Free anywhere in the world.
The C. &' A.. Moustache Trainer shapes the moustache. Worn at night.
2/6, 3/6, 5/6, each Post Free.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
Established
30 Years.
s
Y
l
00 (DOUBLe‘O')
Old Orkney Whisky
'A
SHOE COMFORT!
You can wear Rigney Shoes with comfort every day
from the date of their purchase, without first break-
mg them in. Rigney Shoes are for those gents who
want Style, Comfort, Individuality and Serviceability
in their Footwear.
illustrated is. a Choice Tan Russian
ord §£oe, Back Counter, Circular Vamp,
Perforations, Fine Stitched Welts, 23/6, 25/-
Also, Dark Tan Willow Calf Shoe, 18/6. In
Lace Boots, ditto. Also Black, 21/-. 25/-
Postage, 9d. extra. 7
SEND FOR A COPY OF OUR NEW CATALOG.
The Rigney Shoe Co.,
“ The Men’s Exclusive High-Grade
Shoe Stores,”
305 GEORG E ST., and
179 a PITT ST., SYDNEY.
ĝh
Please note that the new shop in Pitt Street is under the pergonal management of Mr. F.
the sole and only proprietor of the above firm.
0. Eigney,
A. M. 1. g F. CO. Ltd.
(Australian Mercantile, Land 8 Finance Co., Ltd.)
.. ♦ FOR ♦♦ ♦
Top Prices. Quick Returns.
Liberal Advances When Required.
Wool, Produce and Grain
Salesmen,
Stock and Station Agents,
B. B. ALLEN,
Wool & Produce
Manager.
SYDNEY
JAMES KIDD,
Manager.
Also at Melbourne Brisbane
POWER AND RELIABILITY.
These are two of the essentials of a good Motor-cycle.
They are always found in Rudge-Whitworth machines —Motor-
cycles that have proved their merits against all-comers on
both track and road.
You can see one at our Pitt Street Dep6t any time. Will
you call to-day? Or, if that is not convenient, make it Fri-
day night before 9. Write now for Catalogue.
BENNETT g BARKELL, LTD.,
Agents for Triumph, Rudge-Whitworth Motor Cycles,
Manufacturers of B. & B. Motor Cycles,
234 PITT STREET, and 130-2 CASTLEREACH STREET, SYDNEY.
ĝh
C)0
o <->
oo
W-'l
O o
,°p(l
r:
o
1
p ■ '*" ' " \
■: O-.vi
O- u : cj.'. ; 0,
Hii
DUNLOP
CARDEN
Does not crack or burst
and Lasts for Years.
That’s why most of the
Garden Hose sold in this
country bears the “Dunlop”
Brand. Its quality ensures
long wear, and its con-
struction every satisfaction
to users.
Obtainable all leading Storekeepers, but
see that you obtain “ DUNLOP ” Brands.
* * * M
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
108 Flinders St., Melbourne 255 Clarence St., Sydney
268-270 Adelaide St, Brisbane 92 Pirie St., Adelaide
Courtenay Place, Wellington, NJL 67 King St, Perth
Worcester St., Christchurch, N.Z.
Une day or another the Federal Labor
party will have to resolve that Page, of
Queensland, is a Full Blown Calamity. Thus
spake last week the Huge Disaster from
Maranoa :
The right to strike is the only weapon the work-
ing man has. We are not going to give it up.
So, according to Page, arbitration courts and
Wages Boards are all a sham, and the exist-
ence of a Labor Government and a Labor
majority in Parliament makes no difference,
It would be well if this hulking and ill-
judged member could be sentenced to pre-
serve a dead silence for the next six months,
anyhow.
The Weary Parliament is now being in-
vited to pass a Bill to compel boot manufac-
t who make their boots of brown paper
* f,
instead of leather, to stamp them with the
unpleasant truth. Heaven only knows why
there should be any need for such a measure.
The man who went into a bank to change a
“tenner,” and was handed in return bogus
notes or brummy sovereigns, wouldn’t bother
about a special Bill or having the notes
stamped as bogus; he would merely call a
policeman, and the gaol door would open
quite naturally. And there is no sane reason
why it shouldn’t in the other case.


THE ASSORTMENT OF
DAINTY GIFTS IN
SILVERWARE AT A.
SAUNDERS’S JEWEL-
LERY PALACE IS
UNSURPASSED FOR
VARIETY, BEAUTY,
NOVELTY, AND
MODERATE PRICING.
GIFTS FOR EVERYBODY
AT
A. SAUNDERS
ALL SENT POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS, EXCEPT CHINA.
IT IS ONLY BY LARGE
DIRECT BUYING
FROM THE FINEST
ENGLISH HOUSES
THAT WE ARE ABLE
TO OFFER YOU A 1
QUALITY AND
VALUE IN SILVER-
WARE FOR THE MOST
ORDINARY PRICES.
g 9
V.c.:3<r>
/
?T3
Solid Silver MANICURE SET, comprising Powder
Jar, Pair Scissors, Nail File, and Cuticle Knife, in
Silk-lined Morocco Case.
rjUßOgKgfSEjflf fr - ' ' */ i~ f t~ri
£2-/10/.
Solid Silver HAIRPIN BOX, Richly Embossed.
4/6.
STUD ROX, Pure Silver-plated,
lticlily Hand-engraved.
5/- Per Pair.
art China Statuette
ORNAMENT, 7iin high.
fgh
WIN £650.
SEND FOR
AN 8-lIOUR
ART UNION
TICKET.
WE
POST
THEM
free to
ANY
ADDRESS.
Solid Silver HAND MIRROR, Hand-
somely Embossed, Full Size.
SAFETY PIN BOX, Pure Silver-
plated, Handsome Safety Pin Top.
m
20/-
French Briar PIPE,
Pure Silver-mounts and
Screw, Straight or Bent
Amber Stem.
fgh
fgh
fgh
fhg
4/6.
PIN CUSHION and TRINKET BOX, Solid Silver-
mounted.
fgh
gh
30/-
TOBAGCO BOX, Solid Silver, Richly liand-engraved,
9ct Gold Shield, Self acting Spring Lid.
ĥfg
MAGNI-
FICENT
180-PAGE
SILVER-
PLATE
CATALOG
FREE.
Solid Silver HAIR BRUSH,
Fine Bristles.
THOUSANDS
OF NEW
IDEAS
IN
WE.j DING
GIFTS.
5/6.
Ladies’ BELT BUCKLES, Pure Silver-
plated, “Bird” Design.
7/6.
Solid Silver-mounted HAIR COMB, in
Imitation Tortoiseshell.
hfg
£2.
JEWEL CASKET, Pure Silver-plated, Richly
Embossed, size oin x sin.
Gent’s Solid Silver Military HAIR
BRUSH, Richly Embossed, Long
Bristles.
CLOTH or HAT BRUSH, Solid Silver,
Hand-embossed, Silver-drawn Bristles. ,
fgh
'J/a
12/6.
t: nt’s SHAVING TIDY, Seal Leather,
I’lain-domed Solid Silver Mounts.
fghf
10/6.
BEDROOM or TRAVELLING WATCH CASE,
Sol i<l Silver, Morocco Covered, with Stand
and Handle. Including Watch, 15'.
ghfgh
15/6,
CHRISTENING CUP,
Pure Silver-plated Nickel
Silver, Richly Engraved,
“Fern” Design,
fg
£2.
Ladies’ Solid Silver Hand-engraved
CARD CASE, in Silk-lined Case.
fghfgh
fgh
5/6.
Real Pearl-shell TRINKET STAND,
Solid Silver Base.
5E
Complete GENT.’S CASE, containing Pair Finest
Quality Plain Concave Hair Brushes, Hat ana Clothes
Brush, with Comh, in Double-lock Morocco Case.
3S!
sp«sa
m
ayss>
-cH/fk
7/6.
PUFF JAR, Pure Silver-
mounted Top, Cut-glass,
Cherub Design, sin high
fghfghfgh
3/6,
GLOVE MIRROR,
Pure Silver, Oxidised
“Cherub” or Iris
Design.
fgh
Solid Silver
“Butterfly’ 1
HAIR BRUSH and COMB, Stork or
Design, Handsomely Burnished, in Silk-
lined Morocco Case.
fgh
15/6.
SHAVING CUP, Pure Silver-plated,
Richly Engraved, Highly Burnished,
Gilt Lined.
-mm
10/6.
Pure Silver-mounted “Cherub
Design BIRTHDAY BOOK.
JUVENILE BRUSH SET, Solid
Silver, Handsomely Embossed,
Best Bristles, in Silk-lined Case.
13/6.
Gent.’s AUTOMATIC RAZOR
STROP, Pure Silver-plated,
Richly Embossed.
fgh
5/6.
Morocco PEGGY BAG, Extra Well Finished,
Silk Sewn, Strong Frame.
New Art Copper PHOTO. FRAME, Mounted
on solid Oak, Richly Embossed,
Real Copper, Oxidised Finish.
JEWELLER. 1
.^(rtCHsCiOC/y,
ILmakerZ
Omnders.
SYDNEY'S LEADING JEWELLER.
807.809.811.813.815.817. GEORGE ST. ( Opposite Railway Station! SYDNEY. N.S.W.
S> SILVERSMITH
i pftHSULT/% l


In Memory of
Dailey.
HIS IDEAL HARBOR HOME
What Will Become of It?
T
HR, attention of pastoralists and leading men
ot commerce and the professions in the country
is directed to the SALE BY AUCTION, on
OCTOBER 14 NEXT,
244 h A < U'? tS ’ ii mited t 0 36 > of the DALLEY MANSION
EMAIL this represents the last of the available
highest-class virgin residential lands on the heights
just above Rose Bay, on the South Head Road. It
is the crowning position of the Vaucluse (William
VrinUo Wentworth) Estate, containing about 12
ACRES and was purchased by Mr. W. B. Dailey in
the 1 0 s, when that distinguished scholar, states-
man and patriot had the fullest scope for the exer-
o' B .*;, °f a classic choice of sites for his own home.
With eye of fine discernment, he realised it was the
key position to the Harbor, for it commanded the
Harbor from the Heads to Manly Cove, and right up
to the reaches of the Parramatta and Lane Cove
Rivers, with the inlets on both sides and the islets,
like gems on a plate of silver. From this noble
elevation, his eyes lighted on the ocean and the Blue
Mountains, North Sydney, and the turreted homes
above Rose, Double and Elizabeth Bays. He
realised it was a site that could never be excelled,
that could never be shut out from lovely, maj'es-
tic and incomparable vistas. On it he built “Clair-
veaux, with its quaint tower. There, in richest
soil, he planted cuttings and seeds of the choicest
trees, shrubs and flowers of the world, and they
flourished exceedingly. There Mr. Dailey entertained
the distinguished in art, politics and the professions
and visiting celebrities, all of whom tributed to the
glory of the site of his home. Subsequently, “Clair-
veaux” was the home of Mr. Alfred Bennett (of the
Evening News and the Town and Country Jour-
nal), and of Lady Martin (widow of the late Chief
Justice Martin). Recently the estate was purchased
tor sub-division and sale. The Dailey Mansion Es-
tate is in direct touch with the electric tramway ser-
vice right into the heart of the city. The tram route
is one of the most pleasant in the world, for there
is no more beautiful and romantic road than that
known as the South Head. It is lined by mansion
and picturesque homes, many of which are embedded
m noble gardens or set off by charming lawns.
There is an alternative ferry service along the in-
dented harbor. Country residents who can afford it
should not be content with rooms at hotels, or be
satisfied with houses rented for the season. These
never give full comfort or satisfaction, whatever th°
cost. They never afford the freedom and joy O'
one’s own home. Families realise this, and the staj
in the metropolis is a qualified pleasure and change
of scene. There is economy, wisdom and satisfaction
in having “a town house” of one’s own. It is always
ready for reception. The opportunity to secure a
superb site for a home of beauty and contentment
is now afforded.
For Illustrated Descriptive Booklet;
Particulars, etc., write
HARDIE 8 GORMAN.
Pitt Street, Sydney.
THREE WITCHES
CIGARETTES.
r mfo
■MiiL
HORRIoS I
hree Witches
CIGARETTE.
6° for 10';
I law*
HIGHEST GRADE.
Ss per 100, Post Free.
MICK SIMMONS, SYDNEY.
Storekeepers and Tobacconists should
send for our Trade Lists.
II
ILLERS
Hf/p
OSTRICH TIPS
From South Africa.
Black, White, Cream,
Natural, or Black Tipped
with White.
5/-
Length, 12 Inches.
POST FREE.
The Feathers we offer you
cannot be bought for twice the
money in any other house.
Send Postal Notes or Money
Order payable to John Miller.
Illustrated Price List Free.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY; also at
Corner of Bourkeand Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention The Bulletin.] [4
JJe'Standard Keraedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
_*n use since 1596.
:
CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
ilsll frJ he book ii free-or write
S- GREEN, 2XO, Lambeth Road, London, Eng.
Conjuring Tricks, Puzzles, Surprise 8 Joke Novelties
LOOK AND LAUGH GLASS.
fgh
See the Passing Show.
Your friends gro-
tesquely photo-
graphed—stout people
look thin—thin people
look stout. The
Laughing Camera
furnishes all this and
more. By getting a
focus on passing-pedes-
trians, horses, wag-
gons, trains, trams,
etc., tlie most gro-
tesque and ludicrous
pictures are wi t-
nessad. All grow fat from laughter. It is well and
strongly made, and cannot get out of order. Price 1/-,
post free anywhere.
THE U.S.A. LIQUID PISTOL.
Will
stop the
in o s t
vicious
dog or man without
permanent injury,
invaluable for cy-
clists, unescorted
ladies, cashiers,
night -watchmen,
homes, etc. Has more
effect on beggars and
tramps than a watch-
m
dote. Fires and recharges by pulling trigger. Over
20 shots in one loading. Reloading unlimited. It
creates great amusement for young and old, it is
strongly made of polished nickel, and is one of the
most useful, durable, reliable and economical novel-
ties ever produced. Used with water or ammonia.
Price, post free anywhere, 3/-
H. L. Hutchinson L-
New York Novelty Company.
710 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
JE® 3L
liilliiii
11
;
n— Ei
PUZZLE PURSE.
The Latest and Best Puzzle Purse on the market.
Even our most industrious puzzle enthusiasts baffled.
Three entirely different moves before purse can be
opened. It is made of superior leather, with inside
pocket, and strong polished nickel frame. Illustrated
directions enclosed. Price, post free anywhere, 2/=.
Do not miss this chance of obtaining one of the best
and most useful puzzles ever produced.
PUZZLE POCKET KNIVES.
fg
A Puzzle Pocket
Knife is one of
tile most useful
novehiesoblain-
able. Best qual-
ity steel blnde,
buff horn hand-
les, spring back.
Puzzle to shut as well as to open. Makes' a splendid
knife for general us ■, also a superior rabbiter's knife.
Price, with full directions, 2/-; post free any-
where, or same quality in larger size, 3/2 post free.
Po3ta! Addras3 —BOX 3, HAYMARKET POST OFFICE, SYDNEY. Write for Price Lists, free upon application-
Branches—lll KING STREET; 25 and 27 OXFORD STREET, SYDNEY.
BOOMERANG ACCORDEONS
(NINE NEW
TYPES).
f.'#«©
rnprcved Bellows andfasf-eners
-uoapjray bußuauioog s*iaqs
A/, /i S'/,/;
-i H!.I:1; 11 .; ;i H ■
! S
Each “Boomerang” Accordeon is the acme of Perfection;
the Reeds are hand-filed, and cost but 255., 405., and 555. Those
we specially recommend are:—
No. 105 Accordeon, “Boomerang” Brand, is of medium size,
black mouldings, two sets of wrought and hand-turned English
STEEL REEDS, invisible Fastener, NICKEL BELLOW PRO-
TECTORS, soberest workmanship, and highest quality of tone.
Price, including leatherette case, with lock and key, 30/- post
free. ’
No. 108 Accordeon, “Boomerang” Brand, large in size, black
polished mouldings, bellows fitted with patent nickel protectors,
encircling each individual rib of the bellows, and three inde-
pendent stops. Each Accordeon is fitted with instantaneous In-
visible Fastener, THREE full sets of highly-tempered English
STEEL REEDS, the Gem of Perfection in loudness and quality
of tone. Price, in leatherette case complete, 405., post free.
ALBERT (&L SON, 137-139 King' Street, Sydney.
RIFE
RAM
PUMPS WATER
DAY AND NIGHT
AUTOMATICALLY.
Low in first cost, easy to instal, no expense to operate, any capacity desired for
Country Homes, Farms, Dairies, Gardens, irrigation, Town Plants, Railroad Tanks, etc.
RIFE HYDRAULIC BAMS
Raise water 30 feet for every foot of fall.
Satisfaction aaiaranteed. Over 70(,0in use.
If there is a stream, spring or pond within a mile— Write for Free Plans and Book
GET OUR FREE TRIAL OFFER.
2613 Trinity Bldg. RIFE ENGINE CO. New York
fgh
SCIENCE
behind it !
PEBECO is a complete scientific health
course for the mouth and teeth.
Its alkaline properties correct the acidity of
the saliva, prevent bacterial inroads upon the
teeth and deodorise the breath. Pebeco imparts
a pearly whiteness, arrests decay, removes tartar,
and, by invigorating the tissues, remedies shrink-
ing gums.
PE.BECO
Tooth Paste
is highly antiseptic, and, if regularly used, pre-
vents many diseases of tlie mouth and throat.
Of all Chemists, etc.
SOLE AGENT—
Q ARNOLD, 6 O'Connell St., Sydney.
(Wholesale only.)
1
fghfgh
Other Models from 7/6 to 40/>
Catalogues Sent Free.
MELBA
the ACCORDEON with
The Mellow Tone.
Is just perfection for song accompaniments,
Dance and Picnic Music. The organ-like
tone of these instruments is attained by th.
use of Bell Metal Reeds which are hand
fitted and tuned.
3 Popular Models.
THE ORGAN-TONED MELBA
3 sets Bell Metal Reeds, price 23/6, postfree.
THE DANCE KING.
4 sets Bell Metal Reeds, price 30 /-, post free.
THE PICNIC MODEL.
* sets Bell Metal Reeds, price 15/-, postfree.
ALLAN & CO., 276 Collins St., Mclb.
NEW
Queensland Railways.
Thousands of men will be working on
these shortly, and the wise ones will
wear our
Signal Brand
Boots
especially made for this work.
EACH PAIR GUARANTEED.
Take no other brand if you wish for
satisfactory wear.
Demand them from your storekeeper.
MADE WITH UNION LABOR.
Have
Green
Soles.
THE
(REGIS r 1
ora
.TERED)
Have
Green
Soles.
The Davey Halliday C? t - d
BRISBANE, Q.,
SOLE MANUFACTURERS.
The Elite
Eau de Cologne
*S l SS^ssf3Pssaa'
MilEpiaiiß
FIDELITAS
►ST' v.
2«
am,
lags?
1*57 a
F.Wolff&Sohn
-Karlsruhe
Baden
« tyfc
Triumph of
Modern Science
Obtainable from all leading establishments
SBSESS* 3
Look manly and
smart by growing an attrac-
tive Moustache. ‘MOUSTA,’
the True Moustache Grower,
speedily forces one. at any
age like magic. Quite harmless to use.
Boys become men. * M oust a’ is used
all over the world and is strongly
recommended by the Medical Pro-
fession. Entire success or money willingly
returned. ‘Mousta* produces astonishingly
quick results and is the talk of London.
Full Treatment, sufficient to promote Good
Growth, 5/- (postage 6d. extra), sent at once
in plain wrapper on receipt of International
Money Order, 5/6. Send now to—
F. DIXON & CO., 42, Junction Road,
London, N., England.
fhg
A MONTHLY GUIDE for everythin-
tralian. That’s The Lone Hand.
marvellous sixpenn’orth ! ”
Aus-
“A..l


PAINS AFTER
EATING
WIND IN THE STOMACH—BILIOUS
ATTACKS—HEADACHES —LOSS OF
APPETITE —CONSTIPATION
ARE SIGNS
OF INDIGESTION.
Indigestion attacks your whole body,
for it poisons the well-springs of life,
and ruins your constitution. If you
suffer, much or little, take the herbal
tonic, Mother Seigel’s Syrup. This
standard remedy tones up the stomach,
liver and bowels, cleanses your system,
makes indigestion impossible, and
thus maintains your health & strength.
MOTHER
SEIGEL’S
SYRUP
MADE OF ROOTS, BARKS & LEAVES
Mr. J. Moynihan, Lillian Cottage,
Newstead, Fortitude Valley Queens-
j land, writes:—“l am pleased to say
j that, with me, thanks to Mother
Seigel’s Syrut', good digestion has
always waited on good appetite.”
GIVES
GOOD DIGESTION
AND
GOOD HEALTH
Salimenthol Tablets
for RHEUMATISM.
DO you KNOW of any one who has been cured of
Rheumatism by Mysterious “eureall” pills and
medicines, the coi *'Osition of which is kept
secret? Of course you do not.
Have you ever known a Doctor to recommend
them or a hospital to use them? Of course you
have not.
Would anyone but a lunatic take internally an
article containing a drug without knowing what that
drug was? Of course he would not. SALIMEN-
THOIti TABLETS and SAMOL Ointment are pre-
scribed by some of the greatest of the world’s Phy-
sicians and Specialists, and are being used in scores
of hospitals.
THERE IS NO SECRET ABOUT THEM.
Particulars of their composition are published,
and can be obtained by anyone.
SALIMENTHOL TABLETS can be taken by the
most delicate, or where an application is preferred,
SAMOL Ointment can be used.
SAAIOL Ointment is not an irritant, and does not
require friction when applied. It is a means of
givinq- Salicylic Ester of Menthol by absorption.
Salimenthol is sold in glass Cylinders, price
3s. 6d. ; and Samol, in Tubes, price, Is. 6d., 3s. 9d.,
and 6s. Obtainable from any chemist, or direct
from the Australian Agent, H. A. Goddard, 3 Eden’s
Buildings, 108 George Street, Brisbane; or branches,
194 Vickery’s Chambers, 82 Pitt Street, Sydney; 9
to 15 Stock Exchange B’ld’gs, Queen Street, Mel-
bourne; 3 Ellershaw’s B’ld’gs, Cliff Street, Fre-
mantle ; 213 Watson’s B’ld’gs, Auckland.
Before
HARE’S
COMPOUND
will grow a LUXURIANT
MOUSTACHE, and cover
Bald Patches when all else
fails.
Price, 5/6 Post Free.
After
London Specialities Agency,
44 OASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
WAVERLEY PENS
FOR SWIFT LEGIBLE WRITING NO PEN
CAN COMPETE WITH A WAVERLEY.
ITS ENTICING ACTION, ITS SMOOTH
TURNED-UP POINT, AND ITS DURA-
BILITY, MAKE IT INCOMPARABLY THE
BEST NIB AND THE CHEAPEST. THE
RESERVOIR WAVERLEY CAN DO 200
WORDS WITH ONE DIP. TRY IT.
SIXPENCE PER BOX
SOLD BY STATIONERS AND DEALERS.
Wholesale Agent
ROBERT HUTTON
521 FLINDERS LANE
: MELBOURNE :
Millars’ Karri S Jarrah
Co. (1902), Ltd.
We Supply—
JARRAH Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’ Scant=
ling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
72 BISHOPSGATE STB RET WITHIN,
LONDON, E.G.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68£ PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
WHENEVER you see a bear with a Con-
tinent on his back, think of THE LONE
HAND. It's swag is a Continent.
SHOW TIME IN MELBOURNE.
Don’t Miss the “Tarrant Shows”
at Garage and Show-grounds.
A Gallery of Art in Motors.
Perfect Pictures of Perfect Cars.
Handsome New Season’s Models-
Most Successful Cars of the
Year.
The Cars with the Greatest Sales:
“ Mercedes,” “ FJLA.T.,”
“F.N.,” “Rover,” “Ford,”
“Commer” Commercial
Cars.
fgh
TARRANT MOTORS PROPRIETARY LTD.
104-112 Russell Street, MELBOURNE.
Telephones : Central 3080, 2942 ; City 1280, 584.
THE GEAR-DRIVEN MOTOR-CYCLE.
has many points of superiority over the belt-driven machine. First and foremost
comes the elimination of all belt troubles, and this, alone, is a great advance along
the road of comfort and confidence. In all weathers, and under all conditions, a
gear-driven engine will give you every possible satisfaction, because it has no
belt to stretch or slip. And such a
fgh
machine is our
Two-Speed ‘Speedwell,’
which we have no hesitation in re-
commending to anyone wanting a
strong, easy running, entirely relia-
ble machine. Our stock of beautiful
motor cycles awaits your inspection
and approval, and please note we keep
open on Friday Nights until 9 o clock
for your convenience.
BENNETT 8 WOOD, LTD.
Corner of Pitt and Bathurst
Streets, Sydney.
M
H
m
j't.
Aall
Underwear,
SocKs and
Stocßings.
For Men, Ladies, and Children.
The beautiful texture of Australasian wool
is at its best m 72&- It is not made
harsh by process of rendering
it unshrinkable. On the contrary, it
retains to the full the soft fleeciness of
the natural wool. Hence there is no
better wear than . Why not
wear it ? It costs no more than otner
all-wool hosiery.
'jstss
Stockings. Sock* and Underwonr for Men.
Ladies A Children. In all prices,
aade Jerseys for Children are splendid _
wear. Of Men's Outfitters, Drapers and Stores.
If your dealer does not stock " Jason ' he can
obtain it from his wholesale house.
In cat* of diffUuUy toritt for "Jaton"
booklet and no Me of nearest agent to—
JASON HOSIERY Co..
Leicester, England.
&BS
EVERY “PLUM” RAZOR IS GUARANTEED!
The O. & A. Moustache Trainer shapes the Mous-
tache. Worn at night; 2/6, 3/6, 5/6 each, post free.
With every PLUM Razor we sell, we give a two years
guarantee; and not only that, but we keep it in good
order for that time free of charge.
Being practical men we know how to give a razor a
keen and lasting shaving edge.
We make this liberal offer, for we know the superiority
of the PLUM.
The Plum Razor,
10/6
POST FREE TO
ANY PART OF
THE WORLD.
Send for our Free
Illustrated Price
List.
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, IS/6.
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-
PLUM RAZOR, in Case, 10/6, Black
Handle.
Pair in Case, 21/-, Black Handles.
The Plum Razor Strop, 10/6 and 7/6.
Other good kinds from 3/6 each.
Stick good Shaving Soap, 1/-
The Plum Strop Dressing, 1/- Tube.
Gentlemen who shave themselves
should not be without it.
All the above Post Free.
We Grind and Set Razors, 1/- each.
SAFETY RAZORS from 5/6.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George St., Sydney
Established
30 Years.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original and Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
-1/I*, 2/9 & 4/6.
fgh
Made in England.
Checks Fever-
ishness, and
effectually
cuts short all
attacks of
SPASMS and COLIC.
The Best Medicine for
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, and in
the cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Acts like atcharm in
DIAFtRHCEA and simple DYSENTERY.
TIYCQL
GUARD YOUR HOME AGAINST DISEASE.
Use Hvcol, 18-20 times stronger than Carbolic Acid, and f
Y Non-poisonons. GET IT NOW-
Particulars from:— F. H. FAULDIING & GO,
The MQST powerful
• DISINFECTANT^
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted, whether sent by post or handed
in; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps
(of any State) accompany.
8.A.T.: You drop into poetry with diffi-
culty, and how on earth you will ever climb out
again we don’t know. .. . J.0.D.: tor the present the
subject had better drop... .P.H.N.: Bulletin, Nov.
12, 1908 F.W.8.: (1) Yes. (2) Think Senior,
George-street, Sydney .. . .N.lv.: A pair of futile jests.
.... A. Grette: Tame doggerel. It will never bark
again.... Cinderella: Lack of space makes it impos-
sible to consider your offer at present. ... Sr : Re-
ceived copy of the unlettered landlady’s note to the
butcher asking for “a soldier of mutton.” Have
forwarded it to Col. Onslow, M.L.A.. .E. Mann:
Much obliged. You may be interested to know that
The Bulletin’s “Oldest Inhabitant” helped to pre-
pare that book. .. .Anti-Pope: Don’t quite see the
force of Gainford’s statement that “the fact that the
Catholics resent the picture” (entitled “Sextus
V.”) “is one of the greatest evidences that it is
historically true.” According to this logic, The
Bulletin "might exhibit a picture professing to re-
present all Gainford’s collateral relatives in a state
of intoxication, and if Gainford objected, that
would be solid evidence that Gainford’s relatives
were really drunk. The theory doesn’t hang to-
gether somehow White Ant: Inquiry Branch,
Lands Department, Sydney S..T. (W.A.) : No
merit. They contain several false rhymes, and
generally resemble the earliest efforts of a beginner.
G.R. (W.A.) : Two verses will do:—
• And a band was playing as rich men danced,
In marble halls these men of gout.
And more were coming as e’en they pranced,
In costly gowns, a girl came out.
Too spoilt to know,
Too smug to care
How others go,
To table bare.
And stern bailiffs raided a mother’s home
To pav a debt her all they sold.
Lo! her man’s away ’aeath the raging foam
His babes must starve without his gold
Too old to mend
Too sick to work
Her pride must bend
Though rich men smirk.
We can’t help feeling sorry for the gouty rich,
dancing in marble halls. The smirk is plainly the
agonised expression of the tortured victims of Sas-
siety. and has nothing whatever to do with the un-
fortunate widow. .. .Arthur O’H.: A cheerful poetic
whoop. Not worth print.... Eleanor: Verses very
sweet and brook-like, but you need to read and
practice for a few years yet.... Hannibal: Techni-
cally it is not a bad attempt: but it arrives too
late, and is incorrect in one important particular.
He did not personally “abjure” the troops to shoot
the people down Patrick M.: Very tidy and
slight. .. .M.J.K. (V.): Rather neatly arranged, but
not at all striking. Probably, through inadvertence,
you have used the same rhyme all through the first
verse; the effect is monotonous and misleading.
Next time try and break awa.y from the old, well-
worn phrases, and, if possible, use the Australian
“creek” instead of “br00k.”... .J.: Had to court-
martial the Colonel. Other got nearer, but didn’t
score.... Jim C.: Football poem out of bounds....
Moralist: Y erses represent an ineffective struggle
with a large theme. Always attach your proper
name and address to M5....P.P.Q. (V.): Blossoms
not quite fresh enough. .. .W.L.D.: Both fail....
G.A.G.: Merely a fragment too small to stand alone.
You might try your hand on a com nlHe sketch, and
attach your name and address.... Lellerive: A suit-
able poem for the footpad and agricultural show
visitor season: —
NIGHT PADS.
Crouched like treacherous tigers
In the shadow out of sight
Watching for a victim Lurk
The grim pads of the night
They’ll pounce upon a lonely man
Bound for his abode
Render him unconscious
And rob him on the road
When they observe a fearless policeman
They’ll "exit out of sight
Difficult for to capture
Are the grim pads of the night.
J.M.0’8.: Glad to hear you’re happy. Poem one of
the cheerfully hopeless variety H.J. (Q.) :
Sorry all unsuitable. Think you had better get
quotations from two or three good firms H-B.
(Y.) : Forced humor E.P. (Sydney) : No sauce,
thank you F.C. (Sydney): Can’t trim them
LI.D.R. (V.) : Cheery, open-air jingle. Sorry no use
to U5....8-B: Yes, it is harrowing to be asked
why you haven’t been to the opera. Tell them next
time it is too cheap for you. Don’t write any more
verse about it.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CONTRIBUTORS.
D.A.M.: Just two loafers making a labored joke
about a third Yuba: Not a hope, nor a ghost or
semblance of a hope in the whole collection....
A.H.H.: Unless the homeward drunk makes a bril-
liant remark it is better to leave him unrecorded.
....Samuel S.: Silent contempt is the best treat-
ment for that style of art. The trouble is that if
you go on drawing the stock of silent contempt will
soon be exhausted... .Jim W.: Two impossible cows
doing nothing in particular. Also sketch of a sugar
cocky’s family. The cocky evidently married a
devil, and the family takes after her. .. .R. Nic.:
The canon who was only a pea-rifle is a brother of
the patriarchal tenor who was only a fiver.... Dan:
No good; but judge from your few strokes that you
could draw if you set your pencil to it.... McCon-
ville: You’re the 741st person who has sent us the
“original” yarn of the barmaid and the boozer and
the “brown” that was short. Send us the lady’s
address, and we’ll wire her Id. if that will wind up
the distressful business.... Stencil: Poor little over-
worked pun....Ahdo: We dare not....Thos. De
Kay: We forgive you; but if we put you in print
there are many who wouldn’t... .J. Hop: Too much
water in the milk; and it’s not fresh milk, anyway.
.... Bay Webb: Not throwing any cheap bricks in
that direction.... .W.R.S., J.P.0., R.P., C.C.K.,
Film, J. 8.5., C.H.T., C.A.0., Sylvania, J.D.G.: Un-
suitable... .Nelson: Too much like too many other
cannibal jokes J.F.D.: And after you tell us
sadly that we’ve printed an old joke, you send us
the hoariest chestnut in the basket —the yarn about
the man who paid the barmaid a penny short... .
Ixion, A.V.W., John Prank, A.E.H., J.M.M.: Old
age pensioners.... Brighton, Jho Hee: This is a
poor market for puns F.F.: “King’s Lodging
House” is interesting, but too dim to reproduce
well Lance M.: It is close on 40 years since we
attended the funeral of the man who “didn’t have
no last words.” As regards the picture, it also re-
quires a certain amount of burial —not excessive
burial, but a little burial to go on with Bert
R.: The wild pictorial jest about the lady with the
fowl in her hat is as old as the rooster that crowed
at St. Peter. .. .C.E.D.: Apart from the inhuman
aspect of the soldier, and his impossible face and his
improbable legs, there is nothing to go upon save a
sort of superannuated egg joke or egg pun. Puns
are bad; egg puns are dreadful; old egg puns are
three different kinds of horrible. .. .M. Richardson:
The remark which one leg-show lady is making to
the other is too profound D. 8.: The woman in
your picture looks like a depressed murderess....
E.E.H.: Passed out with enthusiasm. .. .F.L.: It
was thoughtful on your part to mention that the
sketch is humorous." . .Xonia: Pictures quite unlike
anything in the Art Gallery H. Shepherd: Pic-
ture doesn’t exactly clamor for publication
|R. J.D.: A man sitting under a tree and expressing a
desire for liquor isn’t much of a subject... .Jat:
Regretfully declined. .. .Ted St. J.: Advice would
be wasted. Give it up... .T.E.G.: The South Ken-
sington fees are very small, but before students can
enter they must pass an examination, and after that
they must work their way through special classes
from the antique upwards. But why look to S.
Kensington? More than one Australian artist who
has made a name in Europe has declared that as
sood instruction can be had from (say) Bernard
Hall, in Melbourne, or Julian Ashton, in Sydney, as
can be got in any English school.


dm,
p^
it»m m
V'j,
*.;a
in"’’
-d-%.
jbJ*£
3?rn.
■ *gt
i
Wc
m
c
IM
w
mmmihim
«*% •
WMmmvK
"fly*
H,
v/////u^^fß\
Uhl/
Tit
CXI
TO fib-
u !
iii/iimmmm-
irm\
ofdfigh-Grade Pianos
oO
“MUSICAL OPINION & MUSIC TRADE REVIEW,
LONDON, JULY, 1911,
Says :
“ A Hamburg trade journalist, who has just returned from the
“Antipodes, states that the pianos manufactured by the Beale Company
“ in Sydney greatly resemble in touch and in tone those turned out at the
“ best German factories. The Beale is sold at forty-five pounds and
“ upwards, and enjoys a good reputation not only in Australia but in India,
“Java, South Sea Islands and other colonial countries with hot climates.
“ The 'Hamburger’ fears that if these British colonials extend their piano
“manufacturing operations there will be little room left for continental
“makers in the musical instrument line.”
We publish the above extract without comment.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE OF THE BEALE HIGH-GRADE PIANOS.
E A L
Ltd
n<
378 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY (3 Doors from G.P.0.)
127 RUNDLE ST., ADELAIDE, S.A.
107 SWANSTON ST.. MELBOURNE
837 HAY ST., PERTH, W.A.
90-92 QUEEN ST., opp. Pike Bros., our new and ONLY Address in BRISBANE.
Offices also at Newcastle, Bathurst, Orange, Goulburn and Broken Hill, N.S.W.; Maryborough. Rockhampton, Mackay
and Townsville, Q. ; Kalgoorlie, W.A. cash or easy terms, write for caialogue. 25 years’ guar an i ee.
Head Office and Factories - - TRAFALGAR ST., AN NAN DALE, SYDNEY.
The Utmost Care in the Smallest Details. Save Middlemen’s Profits by Buying Direct from the Manufacturers.


( J||?LL WHO delight in
lo|a clear skin, soft,
W white hands, a
clean, wholesome scalp,
with live, glossy hair
will find that Cuticura
Soap and Cuticura Oint-
ment more than realize
every expectation. No
other emollients do so
much for distressing, dis-
figuring skin eruptions.
Sold everywhere. Send to R. Towns & Co.,
Sydney, N. S. W., for 32-page skin book.
r
A
An Interesting
Experiment.
If you would like to see the alteration Grey
Hairs make, just lay a piece of paper over each of
the two halves of the above portrait. The Grey
“ half ” will then be seen to have the appearance
of 45 years of age, whereas the other half looks
only 30. Dr. B. Allen’s (U.S.A.) Mexican Walnut
Stain will make all those years of difference if you
are grey or prematurely grey. It is perfectly
harmless, easy to apply, and will quickly restore
the hair to the natural shade of youth, or younger
years.
Dr- B. Allen’s <u.s.a.)
Mexican
Walnut Stain
is offered as a Superior Stain. It contains no lead,
mercury, silver, sulphur, etc., and is equally suit-
able for Ladies’ Hair, or Hair of the Beard or
Moustache. None genuine without the signature
of —Alfred Ardley (Registered in the Patents
Office of the Commonwealth).
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
CANT
B
BEAT
RIAR
PIPES
ALL SHAPES
J/-EACH POST FREE \fZ
Quality Not Better
in a
Guinea Pipe
MICK SIMMONS
SYDNEY.
'storekeepers a tobacconists
SHOULD SEND FOR OUR TRADE LIST
• IEA THt^
'^! Uf
WHOLESALE:
R. Reid & Co., Ltd.
Sargood Bros.
Alcock Bros., Ltd.
Petersen, Boesen
& Co., Ltd.
Etc.
RETAIL:
Everywhere, at 6d.
per tin—Black, Tan.
and Ox-blood.
Established 1752.
When you need a Pill, take a
Brandreth’s
Pill
PURELY VEGETABLE
ALWAYS EFFECTIVE.
Brandreth’s Pills purify the blood,
invigorate the digestion and cleanse the
stomach and bowels. They stimulate the
liver and carry off vitiated bile and other
depraved secretions. They are a tonic
m
Draw the picture up
close before your eyes
and watch the pill
go into the mouth.
medicine that regulate, purify, and fortify the whole system.
Fop Constipation, Dizziness, Drowsiness, Coated Tongue, Bad
Breath, Headache, Pain in Stomach, Indigestion, Dyspepsia,
Diver Complaint, Bilious Headache, Jaundice, or any disorder
arising from impure state of the blood.
Sold by Chemists everywhere.
ALICOCK MANUFACTURING CO., Birkenhead, England.
Established 1847.
Allcock's Porous Plaster
A Universal Remedy for Pain.
Wherever there’s pain apply an Allcock’s Plaster.
fgh
ft
I br
One, two, three, four-
the difficulty is when to stop, for “ Skippers” are so nice—
so different from the old sorts —that you feel you really
must finish the tin. The best of it is they do you good,
however many you eat—they’re twice as nourishing as
oysters ; three times as nourishing as cod or haddock.
Skipper Sardines
Sole Proprietors : ANGUS WATSON & Co., Newcastle-on-Tyne, England.
Keep smiling—there's always Skipper Sardines”
SPALDING GOLD MEDAL
Are the most correctly modelled and highly-
finished clubs ever turned out by any manu-
facturer, and whether driver, brassie or iron,
each has been selected with the greatest care
from the playing clubs of the most c.elebrated
amateurs and professionals.
Every head is cut from a clear block of
either Dogwood or Persimmon, and the irons
have all hand-forged heads, hammered on our
own forges at Putney Wharf, London. Every
shaft is specially selected from the finest sun-
dried, split Hickory obtainable, and only
the most experienced workmen are engaged
to make up these clubs.
Prices : Drivers or Brassies, 10/6 ; Irons, 9/=
All goods bearing the Spalding Trade
Mark are Guaranteed.
From all the better dealers, or
O 0
E°
£ r
w *1
fgh
Model o—Driver0 —Driver or Brassis
A. G. SPALDING & BROS, of Australasia Ltd.
228 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Buyers of
HORROCKSES’
LONGCLOTHS and
MADAPOLAMS
LATEST VICTOR -5 /
GRAND PRIZE
BRUSSELS
EXHIBITION, 1910
G. &G. 3001
Slave a guarantee if they will see
HORROCKSES’ name on Selvedge that they
are getting the very beat that the Old Country
Produces.
Decline all Substitutes
Sold by all First-Class Drapers and Storekeepers,
ON THE HOP!
A. superb library volume, handsomely printer*
and bound ; containing upwards of ihree hundred,
of “Hop’s” best drawings. Full Bulletin size-
Price, 21s.
4
One of the most
valuable foods known to
the Medical Profession. —“ The
Lancet ” describes it as “ Mr. Benger s
admirable preparation.
Benger’s Food is distinguished from the others by
the ease with which it can be digested and absorbed.
Benger’s Food is for Infants and Invalids,
and all whose digestive powers have become weakened
through illness or advancing age.
BENGER’S FOOD LIMITED, Otter Works, Manchester, England.
IRenger's Food is sold in tins by Druggists, etc.., everywhere.
824
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Mashtun”: Among the Deserted Villages of the
Commonwealth count in Hamelin, on the sou’-west
coast of Westralia. It took its name from Hamelin
Bay, the whilom principal shipping port for the out-
put of Davies’s Karridale Co., one of the big
timber-concession grabbing concerns in Forrestland.
Nowatimes the co. uses Flinders Bay, and Hamelin
Bay and the township are absolutely without human
inhabitants. Some 20 or 30 buildings—including
three fine structures, the Customs House, Police
Station, and M. C. Davies’s own “Government ’Ouse”
quarters—are all going to rack and ruin ; several of
the dwellings have become buried by the sand, and
one cottage is located only by its protruding chim-
ney-top.
* * * *
G. D. Meudell, from London: Fruit is a luxury
here, and is never good, except when bought by the
rich. All other fruit, imported for the poor and
others, is plucked green and sent frozen. All hot-
house-grown fruit is flavorless. Bananas from West
Indies and Canary Islands are putrid abominations,
weeks old. Apples from Canada are green, hard, and
not succulent. The soft fruits —strawberries and
raspberries—reach Covent Garden mashed outside,
and green and sour inside. Cherries, pulled before
they are quite ripe, are seldom seen outside stews.
Pears are unutterable lumber, and one would just
about as soon buy a pound of apricots as a tin of
toxo, unless he really was a rabbit. But the boast
of every islander here is the hot-house stuff—-which
lacks sun-made saccharin —and the unspeakable
Hinglish Happle. Codim moths, aphides, potato
bugs, gnats, hornets, and Colorado beetles make of
the local apple a habitation and an ephemeral
dwelling-place. Apples are so sour and uneatable,
they mostly squeeze cider out of them, and sell it
from chemists’ shops. The very best apple I’ve ever
eaten came last week from Westralia, which bids
fair to be the apple and wheat supplier of Australia
very soon, if not much earlier. The fruit ring lately
“knocked out” Tasmanian apples, and last week,
when they anointed George V., the dealers got two
shiploads at ss. a case, whereas the normal whole-
sale selling price is 10s. ! The knock-out is a flam-
ing scandal, for the price of apples has not been
changed. In the big shops, like Solomon’s, Brooks’,
Gerard’s or May’s, it is the same old threepence
each. In the smaller city shop, where I usually buy
Tasmanian apples at 2|d. each, the price is also un-
changed, although the fruit ring bought them at half
their value. Such treatment of a great Australian
industry causes one to be tremendously in favor of
an Australian Government depot here for all our pro-
ducts. Australia should buy the useless Royal Ex-
change, opposite the Bank of England, and sell penny
apples there and sixpenny rabbits, and defy the
rings.
* * * #
“P”: Bulletin quotes the Amurrkan Price Col-
lier : “Everybody agrees to question the honesty of
the Japanese as a trader.” Here is a sample from
a Jap merchant’s letter, printed in London West-
minster Gazette : “As Mr. Brown is most religious
and competent man, also heavily upright and
godly, it fears me that useless apply for his signa-
ture- —please therefore attach same by Y —- office mak-
ing forge, but no cause for fear of prison happen-
ings, as this is often operated by other merchants
of highest integrity.” Looks like a good fake, but
is vowed true.
* * * *
The wheedling ways of the modern “mission”
crowd seem to have been adopted with some effect-
iveness in London by the hustling Canuck advertise-
ment fiend. Here is a tip for the Commonwealth
Government, when next it writes to Reid: —
HEART TO HEART TALK ON CANADA FOR
WOMEN.
Any r girl or woman wishing to have advice on
Canada from a Canadian who knows that coun-
try from end to end should call on Mrs. Simp-
son Hayes at the offices of the Canadian Pacific
Railway, opposite the Nelson Monument, Trafal-
gar Square. Mrs. Simpson Hayes has had many
years of practical experience in enabling Eng-
lishwomen to find new homes and new oppor-
tunities in the West, and can explain what to
do and what not to do. She will gladly wel-
come any callers on Mondays, Wednesdays and
Fridays from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.
But let there be no appointing of some unhappy
English-woman Johnny, who has never even seen
the blasted er-colony !
* * * *
“Fisho” : There seems to be some room for official
supervision in the matter of the wholesale market-
ing of de oyst. In the Melbourne Fish Market re-
cently I saw some lots being sold at ss. a bag,
though the ruling price the same day was 60s. to
655. a bag. The difference speaks for itself; at
least the five-bob line should be able to utter some
pretty emphatic language.
* * * *
“Petramos” : Good Mr. Blobbs was a country pub-
lican, owning some city houses. Quaint Mons. Paree
had paid rent to. Blobbs for 17 years. Wicked Mr.
McSquidge was the agent who collected the rents.
Nice Mr. Blobbs one day came to town suddenly,
and casually called on polite’ Mons. Paree, who
opened some wine in the parlor. “Mons. Blobbs,”
he said, “eet is not good of you to raise my rent
five bobs.” “Mossoo,” replied Blobbs, “I wouldn’t
dream of raising the rent on a tenant who has been
in the house since it was a little cottage.” “Mon
Dieu ! but you haf,” cried Monsieur. “Monsieur the
collector say, ‘Up your rent go five bobs.’ ” It was
gradually revealed to trusting Mr. Blobbs that
McSquidge was making ss. per week for himself as
well as his collecting commission. He explained
everything to Monsieur. “Ah, ha ! Do not tell him
of this knowledge of yours,” pleaded the Frenchman.
“Let ’im come again for five bobs. / will deal.”
Blobbs was agreeable. He discovered that other
tenants also had been swindled, and decided to .let
them deal too. All the tenants went into active
training immediately, and, a few days later, when
kind Mr. Blobbs met unhappy Mr. McSquidge - looking
like a football umpire on Sunday morning, he con-
s’derately relieved him of his rent-collecting duties
for ever.
THE PARADOX.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Vice-Admiral King-Hall said that he was struck
with the small amount of money subscribed to the
mission zone fund in Sydney. The Dean of New-
castle, referring to a deficit in the same fund, said:
“It is a shame you cannot raise £2OO in Sydney to
conquer sin,” The Rev. W. L. Langley stated that
the church within was passionless. They wanted all
the business acumen of their men brought to bear
upon Christian work l—Daily Paper.
Oh, this is very sad —-
As sad as sad can be!
We’re going to the Bad
For lack of £ s. d.
Right here, where Sin abounds.
And Satan holds full sway,
Two hundred paltry pounds
Cannot be raised to-day!
The city is defiled!
Come! bring us bags of loot!
Here Evil’s growing wild
Because we lack its root!
The vineyard’s very broad,
And things are in a mess;
Through some unholy fraud
The Church is passionless!
Ye business “Christian” men —
A (paradox, by Gosh !
Rush in and hustle, then
They’ll ante-up some splosh!
Attack the Cursed Root,
And dig it up in blocks;
Then Evil gets the boot —
Another paradox !
“We’ll give old Satan fits—-
Lord, send us heaps of pelf!”
Thus cries the Church —and it’s
A paradox itself!
N.s.w.
PETRONIUS EARBITER.


Missing Friends.
Roland ell wood terry sliutt
—or TERRY. Anyone knowing the
whereabouts of above person, who left
Loughbro’, England. November, 1908, for
Otorohanga, W. T. W.. New Zealand, tlienee
for Sydney, August, 1909, please communi-
cate with
W. A.,
Bulletin, Sydney.
Business Announcements.
“Tho IDEAL HAIR-DYEING COMB~~
Instantly colors drey Hair. Restores Faded
Hair. Darkens Auburn Hair.
BY SIMPLY COMBING THE HAIR
Clij shade of brown ora brilliant blaok is
imparted. Does not disoulor skin nor soalp.
Cleanly and easy to nse. Success certain.
Improves the Hair. Guaranteed harmless
and free from mineral poison.
! with full directions, and
5 carriage paid anywhere.
* V
THE ONION GO., 299 Elizabeth Street, Melb.
dfgdfg
SOLAR TELESCOPE
Microscope Combined, with Special Eye Piece for
T'-'.oytß ||■ j%. rc e r i|‘LONo. •
viewing Eclipses of the Sun and observing the mysterious Sun
Spots. Five powerful lenses. Sight range sto 10 miles. Five
sectionsextending to nearly 4 Feet. A Book of Telescope Talk
with each instrument. Complete packed in a box and carriage
paid for only 8/6. The Union Company,
299 Elizabeth Street. Melbourne.
ghf
If you love your Wife you will make her a
FIRELESS COOKER
It saves 80 per cent, of Fuel, halves the Cook’s labor.
No heat, no smell, no trouble, no danger, no spoilt
Jood. It makes tough meat tender and preserve*
k the goodness and flavor. Anyone can make a
Fireiess Cooker. Send Half-a-CroWR
for Complete Drawings and full Printed
Directions, with Hints and Suggestions and
a good number of Recipes. The cost of
making a good-sized Cooker is less than 5/*
Tha Union Co.u 299 Elizabeth St., Mclb.
Michelin
Tyres.
Dr. LE6ER ERSON,
formerly Hon. Physician Auckland and Broken Hill
General Hospitals.
Also to Royal Victorian Institute for the Blind.
157 Collins St. (Zerco’s Chambers),
Telephone, City 2375. Melbourne.
Specialty 600.
Consultation by letter, £1 Is.
Amusements.
IYRIC AND COLONIAL, THEATRES,
™ Vos. 1 and 2, George Street, Sydney.
Direction J. D. Williams.
PERPETUAL MOTION from 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
PATRONISED BY 60,000 PEOPLE WEEKLY.
Run Under the Continuous Show System now the Rage
of England and America.
English and American Prices of Admission.
Same Prices at Esch Theatre :
STALLS 3d. DRESS CIRCLE 6d.
ENTIRE CHANGE OF PROGRAMMES TWICE
WEEKLY: MONDAYS and THURSDAYS.
Afternoon Tea is Popular. Afternoon Pictures are the
Rage.
We Cater Specially' for Ladies and Children During
Morning and Afternoon Sessions.
Ladies’ Retiring Rooms and Lady Attendants.
If it is to be seen anywhere y’ou will see it at our
THE WORLD IN MOTION.
We want you to compare our Programmes and our
Theatres with others which charge twice our prices of
Admission.
THE GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS
AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
1 NTERNATIONAL PICTURES. COLONIAL
■ Theatre Buildings, 610 George St., Sydney.
Mr. W. J. Morgan, General Manager.
This Company supplies the Lyric and Colonial Theatres
with all their photo plays, and also supplies the leading
photo play'concerns throughout Austmlasia. In fact,
we supply more shows with pictures than any other
three (3) concerns combined.
Don’t forget, Mr. Showman, to write or call.
We have the money-getters. We do not represent any
one firm of photoplay manufacturers, but we represent
all the best. WE HAVE THOUSANDS OF EXCLUSIVE
SUBJECTS-EVERY ONE A WINNER.
Branches: Sutton Buildings, Melbourne ; Courier Build-
ings, Brisbane; Wellington, New Zealand ; London,
England: Dewar House, Ha.vmarket.
Just address y'our wire to “international Pictures.”
That’s sufficient.
UER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
1 ■ Lessee and Manager: J. C. WILLIAMSON. Ltd.
THE MELBA GRAND OPERA SEASON.
THURSDAY (14th), SANSONE E DALILA.
FRIDAY (15th), LA BOHEME.
SATURDAY (16th), MADAME BUTTERFLY,
MONDAY (18th', LA BOHEME.
TUESDAY (19th), MADAME BUTTERFLY.
WEDNESDAY (20th), LA BOHEME.
Box Plan at Paling’s.
"THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
* Lessee & Manager .. J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd
THIS EVENING, AT 8 O’CLOCK,
The Brilliantly Successful MUSICAL PLAY,
A WALTZ DREAM.
Specially Attractive Cast from
THE NEW COMIC OPERA COMPANY.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Prices as usual.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee: FRANK MUSGROVE.
r EVERY EVENING.
The Greatest English-speaking Actress on the stage to-day
ETHEL IRVING
AND HER ENTIRE LONDON COMPANY,
Direct from St. James’s Theatre,
in A. E. W. Mason's Compelling Play,
THE WITNESS FOR THE DEFENCE.
Box Plan ELVY’S.
A DELPHI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction and Management, Gkouok Marlow, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING,
GEORGE MARLOW’S Elaborate Production of the
Sensational and Romantic Melodrama,
THE ANGEL OF HIS DREAMS.
Brilliantly Interpreted by Australia’s Established and
Favorite Company of Dramatic Artists.
Box Plan at Elvy’s and White Rose Confectionery.
POPULAR PRICES—3s., 2s. & Is. Early Door, 6d. extra
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction ALLAN HAMILTON.
SATURDAY NEXT, SEPTEMBER 16,
PLIMMER-DENNISTON SEASON.
First Production in Sydney of the Latest London Success,
NOBODY’S DAUGHTER.
A Play replete with Thrilling Human Interest,
By George Paston.
POPULAR PRICES. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
ATIONAL AMPHITHEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietors—Brennan’s Amphitheatres, Limited
Governing Director—Mr. James Brennan.
BRENNAN’S VAUDEVILLE ENTERTAINERS.
EVERY EVENING at 8 O’CLOCK.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS.
Diivct from England, WILL SULLIVAN, Lancashire
Comedian. Last week EVA MUDGE.
Entire Change of Songs and Dialogue, JORDAN and
HARVEY. JULES GARRISON & ROMAN MAIDS.
LES PETITS TOTOS, and GREAT DOUBLE COMPANY.
THE BEST IN VAUDEVILLE. POPULAR PRICES.
AMATEUR TRIAL NIGHTS, FRIDAY EVENINGS.
hTe ALHAMBRA THEATRE,
Haymarket, Sydney.
Direction E. J. KILPATRICK.
THE HOME OE EXCLUSIVE
DrrvrTTT> T7Q CONTINUOUS—
X A vJ JL U JaljO. a.m. to 10.3 p.m.
ALL AUSTRALIA “ CROWNING! GLORY ”
CONTEST. £4O IN PRIZES.
Address all Communications ALHAMBRA THEATRE.
N
THE LYCEUM..
_JL_ EVERY EVENING AT 8 r
Matinees -Wednesdays . Saturdays and Holidays at 230.
C pencershTewrikope <?.
J PICTURES
- rfflE SUPERIOR TO ALL OT/fERS.ta
Popular Prices —Plan at Paliwos.
GIACIAEIUJI-
YDN E Y
COLOSSAL PEOPLE’S ENTERTAINMENTS BY
WEST’S PICTURES, LTD.
“BEST OF ALL.”
FAMILY MATINEES—WEDNESDAY, 2.30.
DE GROEN’S VICE-REGAL ORCHESTRAS.
6d. to 2/- Plan at Nicholson’s (No’ extra Fee).
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor & Manager—Mr, Haiuiy Riokaiios.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS
CLARK and HAMILTON, Musical Comedy Artists.
HARRY ALLISTER, Character Impersonator.
McLALLEN & CARSON, Skaters & Novelty Dancers
MISS LOUIE TRACY, The Dapper Dandy Boy.
CLARKE AND MOSTOL, Dancers Extraordinary.
FRED BLUETT. THE THREE STARRS.
THE BRIGHT SISTERS. VINCENT & SINCLAIR.
And a GREAT COMPANY of Established Favorites.
PRICES—3s., 2s. and Is. Plan at Paling’s.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
BINNS and BINNS, in Comedy and Music.
ALCIDE CAPITAINE, Lady Gymnist.
SAXONY’S CONTINENTAL DANCERS.
VICTOR MARTIN, Juggler.
ALBERT REES, Drawing-room Entertainer.
SPISSELL BROS. & MACK, Eccentrics & Pantomimists
Plan at Allan’s. J3T PRICES —35.,
is
Melbourne repertory theatre.
Direction Gregan McMahon.
SECOND SEASON-
TURN VEREIN HALL, Victoria Parade.
SEPT. 25 & 28—Bernard Shaw’s “ CANDIDA.”
OCT. 2 & s—Geo. Calderon’s “THE FOUNTAIN.”
OCT. 9 <& 12—Granville Barker’s “ THE VOYSEY
INHERITANCE.”
TICKETS : 4/-, or Set of Six available any night, 21/-
2/6, or Set of Six available any night, 12/-
NOW ON SALE at Allan’s and Book Lover’s Library.
BOX PLAN at ALLAN’S, SEPT. 18.
pHIN CESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
FOR A BRIEF SEASON ONLY.
CONAN DOYLE’S THRILLING STORY,
THE SPECKLED BAND.
Prices as Usual.
Plan at Allan’s.
\AI E S T’S PALACE, MELBOCBN E.
the best WEST S iMCTUUES, TIIE uiss t
OF 1 ALE. LIMITED. OF ALL.
Managing Director : Jin. T. J. Wkst.
NIGHTLY AT b.
Matinees Wednesdays. Saturdays & All Holidays at ‘2.30.
Tub Greatest Pictorial Extk.rprisk ix the World.
PRE-EMINENT IN TWo HEMISPHERES.
An v Moving Picture Worthy of Note always to be seen at
WEST’S PICTURES. Complete Change every week.
Prices—6d. ro 2s. Box Plan at Glen s.
LYRIC THEATRE, Chapel St., Praliran, Vic
EVERY NIGH Tat 8. MATINEE, SATURDAY, at 2..
THE FAMOUS “NON-FLICKER”
30
PHOTOPLAYS
on tlie Marvellous "Mack” Screen, togetner with the
Superb LYRIC ORCHESTRA. 6d. to 2s. Rians at
Allan’s, C. M. Read’s and the Lyric Theatre Caf6.
ATHEN/EUM HALL, MELBOURNE.
Direction of J. & N. TAIT.
COMMENCING SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 23,
THE ACKNOWLEDGED EMPEROR OF MAGIC—
NICOLA! NICOLA!
AND HIS ORIGINAL AMERICAN COMPANY OF
SENSATIONAL MYSTI FIERY.
The Grandest and Most Artistic Production of the Age.
4/-, 3/-, 2/- and 1/- Matinees Wednesdays & Saturdays.
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
LAST EIGHT NIGHTS.
MR. H. B. IRVING and
MISS DOROTHEA BAIRD
IN
H A M L E T-
Prices as Usual. Plan at Allan’s.
THE KING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager : Wilmam Andkrson.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 16,
RETURN OF MAGGIE MOORE and
H. R. ROBERTS in
STRUCK OIL.
PRICES—3s., 2s. and Is.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
■p HEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
A NOTABLE ATTRACTION.
Messrs. CLARKE and MEYNELL’S NEW
OPERA CO. in
THE CHOCOLATE SOLDIER
Plan at Allan’s. PRICES AS USUAL.
OLYMPIA, OLYMPIA,
LYMPIA, MELBOURNE
(Just across Princes Bridge).
SPENCER’S THEATRESCOPE CO.
Presenting the Unrivalled
SPENCER’S PICT UR I .S.
POPULAR PRICES FOR PERFECT PICTURES _
WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS at 2.30,
and EVERY EVENING at 8.
|y| ELBOURNE GLACIARIUM.
ICE SKATING
EVERY AFTERNOON and EVENING.
ADMISSION—AFTERNOONS, 2/-; CHILDREN, 1/-.
EVENINGS, 1/-.
AUSTRALIAN CHILDHOOD
PORTRAITS.
SEVEN AND SIX for every photo, used. The
United Commercial Travellers’ Association of
Australasia, proprietors of the National Annual,
“AUSTRALIA TO-DAY,” wish to include in their
coming Christmas issue at least 30 of the most at-
tractive portraits of Australian children (boys and
girls). They want them from EVERY STATE in
the Commonwealth, and will pay 7/6 for every
photo, used, while all others will be promptly re-
turned, post paid. Ages of children to be from
youngest babyhood up to fifteen years. The help of
ALL AUSTRALIAN PARENTS is cordially solicited
to make these pages of Australian Children WORTHY
OF AUSTRALIA. They will be circulated ALL
OVER THE WORLD. No objection to receiving
more than one photo, from same family.
Photo., accompanied by name and address of child,
and name and address of sender, must reach the
EDITOR OF “AUSTRALIA TO-DAY,” 189 Flinders
Lane, Melbourne, by September 30, 1911.
EASY TO USE.
POST 45\ m FREE.
In Commonwealth
and New Zealand.
EMASCULATORS
SHARPE’S PERFECT EMASCULATOR com-
bines the Best AMERICAN IDEAS with RELI-
ABLE ENGLISH MANUFACTURE.
It CRUSHES before it CLEANLY CUTS ; makes
Hemorrhage Impossible.
RAPID-SAFE—MERCIFUL. Has just the proper
power. Satisfaction or Money Back.
Write for Knife & Vet. List.
SHARPE & SHARPE
18 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wbat is AERO6EN <SAS ?
THE CHEAPEST ILLUMINANT KNOWN.
The Ideal Light for Country Stores,
Hotels and Billiard Rooms.
The following are some of the users to whom
reference is permitted: —
New South Wales Railways Departments; New
South Wales Public AVorks Departments ; Mr. L. A.
Dangar, Warialda; Mr. D. Copland, A\ agga, Mi.
J. Loneragan, Mudgee; Victorian Railway Depart-
ments ; Victorian Home Affairs Departments; Sir
John Madden; Mr. H. Alan Currie; Mr. H.
Grimwade; Mr. Gordon Chirnside; Mr. Ernest
Austin ; Major C. Campbell.
For further 'particulars and catalogues apply to.
Sole Agents fob Australia:
PHILIPS & PIKE, Equitable Buildings, Sydney;
St. James’s Buildings, Melbourne.
Distributing Agents :
HANNAMS, Ltd., Sydney; CHAS. ATKINS & Co.,
Ltd., Adelaide; ALCOCK & Co., Pty., Ltd-,
Perth; E. RICH & Co Ltd., Brisbane W.
REID & Co., Ltd., Rockhampton; ALt SHAW,
LTD., Townsville.
m
as*p
Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS
Islands of Enchantment. Many-sided
Melanesia, seen through Many Eyes
and recorded by Florence Coornbe.
With Map and 100 Photographs by J.
W. Beattie. Bvo.
The Cambridge Natural History. Edited
by S. F. Harmer, Sc.D., F R.S., and A.
E. Shipley, M.A., F.R.S. In 10 Vol-
umes. Fully Illustrated, Medium Bvo.
Library Binding. Sold in Sets only.
Half Morocco, Gilt Top, £8 Bs. net.
The Publishers will be pleased to sup-
ply Prospectus giving full particulars.
A System of Medicine. Vol. IX. Com-
pleting the Second Edition. Revised
and largely re-written. Edited by Sir
Clifford Allbutt, K.C.8., M.D., and H.
D. Rolleston, M.D. In Nine Vols., Vols.
1., 11. (in 2 Parts). 111., IV. (in 2
Parts, V.—IX., 255. net each.
The Publishers will be pleased to sup-
ply Prospectus giving full details.
A Map of the World on Mercator’s Pro-
jection. Specially designed for Aus-
tralasian schools, showing AUSTRA-
LIA as the centre of the Universe. Size,
50in. x 42in. Mounted on cloth. Rollers
and varnished, 12s.
Atlas for Australasian Schools.
and Political, size 12in. x
maps, Is. Cd.
Physical
10in„ 36
MACMILLAN’S
Colonial LIBRARY
of Copyright Books.
In Paper Covers and Cloth Boards.
NEW VOLUMES.
595 The Song of Kenny. By Maurice
Hewlett.
597 Inside of the Cup. By Winston
Churchill, Author of “A Modern
Chronicle,” “Coniston,” etc.
601 The Centaur. By Algernon Black-
wood, Author of “Jimbo,” “The
Human Chord,” etc.
596 Ethan Erome. By Edith Wharton,
Author of “The House of Mirth,”
etc.
594 The Lost Iphigenia. By Agnes and
Egerton Castle.
598 The Secret Garden. By E. Nesbit,
Author of “The Magic City,” etc.
602 The Baron’s Heir. A Sixteenth Cen-
tury Romance for Young People.
By Alice Wilson Fox, Author of
“Hearts and Coronets,” etc.
600 John Temple: Merchant Adventurer,
Convict and Conquistador. By Ralph
Durand.
591 Members of the Family. Tales of
the Western Plains. By Owen
Wister, Author of “The Virginian,”
Lady Baltimore,” etc.
593 The Legacy. A Story of a Woman.
By Mary S. Watts, Author of
“Nathan Burke.”
592 The Unknown God. By Putnam
Weale, Author of “The Human Cob-
web,” etc.
589 Nina. By Rosaline Masson.
590 Trevor Lordship. A Love Story.
By Mrs. Hubert Barclay.
A Complete Catalogue of Macmillan’s
Colonial Library will be sent on
application.
MACMILLAN'S
NEW SHILLING
LIBRARY.
The Man-Eaters of Tsavo. By Lieut.-
Colonel J. H. Patterson.
Essays. By IL W. Emerson.
Essays in Criticism. First Series. By
Matthew Arnold.
Man’s Place in Nature. By Thomas
Henry Huxley.
South Sea Bubbles. By the Earl and the
Doctor.
A Poor Man’s House. By Stephen Rey-
nolds.
The Intellectual Life. By Phillip Gilbert
Hamerton.
Letters from Hell. Given in English by
Julie Sutter. With a Preface by Dr.
George Macdonald.
Send for COMPLETE LIST of
POPULAR 1/- BOOKS
(about 160 vols.).
MACMILLAN gCO. LTD.
LONDON.
Among the Weary Government’s recent
visitors was a deputation from the shire of
Seymour (Vic.), bent on securing a grant
of £360. The money, it was said, was badly
wanted, as Seymour happened to be beastly
unfinancial. It was then learnt that the
shire was striking a rate of Is. in the £ on
the usual low valuation, which often makes
the nominal “bob” an actual “tanner” rate,
and out of its annual revenue was providing
£SOO towards the redemption of a loan of
£16,100. The Minister did not think it
proper to read the deputation a lecture on
self-reliance and more honest valuations. On
the contrary, he said he would consider the
demand for a grant, and bowed out the
cadgers with an affability that clearly shows
the elections are approaching.


Shipping.
P. and O. BRANCH SERVICE
For DURBAN, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
* Twin-screw.
SALOON ACCOMMODATION, AMIDSHIPS,
CONVERTED INTO VERY SUPERIOR
ONE CLASS.
LONDON .. .. £l6, £lB & £2O.
CAPETOWN & NATAL, £l3 135., £l5 15s. & £l7 17s.
CILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD., 7 Bent St.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William Street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents: GEO. WILLS & CO.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN D.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy. New and luxur-
ons 12,000-ton Steamers. Cabines-de-luxe; State-
rooms, with bedsteads; Single Berth Rooms, Private
Bathrooms, Electric Lifts and Laundries
Sailing every fortnight from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE', ADELAIDE, and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Place, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF
NEW SOOTH WALES.
HIAD OFFICE: MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
FARMERS AND SETTLERS’
LOANS TO £2OOO
for 31 years. Repayable by half-yearly instalments.
J. H. DAVIES, Secretary.
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES.
HEAD OFFICE: MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
MORTGAGE LOANS FROM 4
TO 5 PER CENT.
up to £25,000, with special repayment privileges.
J. 11. DAVIES, Secretary.
of Rorth Queensland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves . . 370,000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director:
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE : 4 QUEEN VICTORIA STREET, E.C.
Manager: R. R. LOVE.
Bankers: TIIE LONDON COUNTY & WESTMINSTER
BANK, LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Bank of Reui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
Total Capital Paid-up .. .. £2,000,000
Uncalled Capital . . . • • . £500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits £1,034,405
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea
land, Fiji, Great Bri
tain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
THE
Australian Bank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. .. £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED . . .. .. £1,198,344
PAID-UP (30th June, 1911) .. £1,180,812
HEAD OFFICE—George and King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE—2 King William Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS —Sir William P. Manning, Kt., Chair-
man; George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D.; Ciias. 11.
Myles, Esq.; Mark Sheldon, Esq. ; Arthur S.
Barton, Esq; Frank N. Yarwood, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales & Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the world.
A. P. STEWART, General Manager.
The
Queensland National Bank,
Limited
0 0
8 10
0 0
4 5
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital . . • • • •
Capital Paid Up •• •• ••
Reserve (in Gov. Stock) . • • • 9MOO
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
Directors: JAS. MILNE, Esq., Chairman; JAMES
MUNRO, Esq. ; Hon. A. J. CALLAN, Esq., M.L.C. ;
JOHN CAMERON, Esq. ’J- ,r LO T ?P T ’cJA'I-
General Manager —W. V. RALSTON.
Branches—London, Sydney & throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
Shipping.
REDUCED FARES
To EUROPE
Nord D
eutscher
doyd.
PASSENGERS booked to Egypt, Naples,
Genoa, Algiers, Marseilles, Gibraltar,
London, Antwerp, and Bremen.
All 4 steamers fitted with “Wireless” Installation.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
REGULAR FOUR-WEEKLY MAIL SERVICE
from Sydney and Brisbane, via New Guinea,
by Twin-screw Steamers.
For Passage and Full Particulars apply to —
LOHMANN & CO., General Agents,
7 & 9 Bridge Street, Sydney ;
O'STERMEYER, VAN ROMPAEY & Co., Melbourne;
11. MUECKE & CO., Adelaide;
L. RATAZZI & CO., Perth and Fremantle;
THOS. BROWN & SONS, Ltd., Brisbane & Townsville.
COLORED POST CARDS, by Harry J.
Weston “ WEEKLY WORRIES.”
Set of six, posted free, 6d. Bulletin
Newspaper Co. 214 George St., Sydney.
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN, PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
ƒgh
Twin-screw Steamers.
PERSIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
September 27.
RUNIC, MEDIC, AFRIO and SUEVIC
to follow.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy and
Submarine Signalling Apparatus.
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Fares —Capetown or Durban £l5 15 oto £24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 oto 30 0 0
Melbourne . . . . 110 0
New York, Boston, Quebec,
Montreal, etc., from 25 0 0
Pamphlets and all other information on application.
LUGGAGE lieceived Only on Day of Sailing,
DALGETY & COMPANY, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
TH€ AB€RD€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth and
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLINC AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
6New Triple-screw Turbine Steamer,
f For the Melbourne Cup. * One Class only.
FARES — Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. From £57 £l6 Os. to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban From £3l 10s. £l3 13s. to £l7 17s.
Special Return Tickets available for outward passage
by Orient Line —£112 (First-class each way);
£B5 (Second-class Orient).
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £126 10s.
SALOON CABINS on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest stan-
dard.
pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
DALCETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia.
YOUR WINTER
HOLIDAY.
SEND for our Booklet, “Papua and the
Pacific Islands, How to visit them?”
describing many delightful Island trips Irom
upwards. Most attractive as Winter
Holiday Cruises.
/ {
\
w
BURNS, PHiLP & CO., LTD., 11 Bridge St., Sydney.
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
DIRECTORS
fgh
£2,991,560
£1,969,435
£2,991,560
£7,952,555
The Hon. O. K. Jlaelvellar, M.L.C., Presiden
Senator The Hoii. Janies Thomas Walker.
The Hon. lteginald Janies Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.C.
Auditors : Alfred George Milson, Esq. ; William Harrington Palmer, Esq.
Head Office -George St., Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle St., E.C.
With 332 Branches in all the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji and Papua (New Soutn Wales Ida, Victoria 38,
Queensland 49, S >uth Australia 5, West Australia 11, NeVv Zealand 57, Tasmania 1, Fiji 3, Papua 2,
London 1); and Agents and Correspondents throughout Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India, China,
Japan, and the East, Africa, Canada, the United States, South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
Cable remittances made to, and Drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills negotiated and
collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. £1,500,000 0 0
Reserve Fund . . . . 1,460,000 0 0
Reserve Capital .. 1,500,000 0 0
£4,460,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
George J. Cohen, Esq .. . • Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C. . . Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. 11. Moses, M.L.C. A. J. Onslow Thompson, Esq.
Hon. James Burns, M.L.C.
Auditors: F. W. Hixson, Esq., & W. L. Docker, Esq.
General Manager: T. A. Dibbs.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
H. 11. Massie.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
Manager: A. J. Soutar.
Accountant: W. R. Sayers.
Secretary : M. S. Grant.
Branch Accountant: J. Clayton.
Inspectors: W. C. B. Tiley, W. 11. Pinhey.
London Office: 18 Birchin - Lane.
■Directors: F. H. Dangar, Esq.; Hon. 11. S.
Littleton; N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up . . ■ • • • £519,237 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders . . 161,384 0 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) 75,500 0 0
£756,121 0 0
HEAD OFFICE : BRISBANE.
Gen Man . Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Man.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Bow. Cannon Street, London,
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
The Colonial mutual [ife
assurance society limited
for
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and
Annuities without Mutual Liability; also
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,219,446.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £5,300,000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C., Chairman.
The lion. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
THE OCEAN
Accident & Guarantee
Corporation Limited,
Ocean House, 22 Moore Street, Sydney.
Fire, accident, workmen’s com-
pensation. PUBLIC RISK, BUR-
GLARY and PLATE-GLASS INSURANCES
,at Lowest Rates.
THE TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS
* AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 ColiinB-Btreeti Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP -. £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Deben-
tures, Stock, & First Mortgages .. £41,000 0 0
Directors: R. Murray Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Chairman ;
John Grice, Esq., Vice-Chairman; Hon. J. M. Pratt;
J. H. MacFarland, Esq., M.A., LL.D. ; Alexander
M'Cracken. JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
The METROPOLITAN general E
INSURANCE COMPANY, LIMITED.
THE CO-OPERATIVE FIRE OFFICE.
Shares Issued to Contributors of Business.
When your Premium is Due Get Full Particulars.
HEAD OFFICE : 30 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
BRANCHES: Victoria, S. Aus., Queensland.
•• • Q
Zaw Points
&r Inventors
Can I Obtain a Patent ?
The quickest, wav to ascertain this,
WITHOUT EXPENSE, is to write
to me describing your invention, enclosing a small sketch
where necessary. Nicety of drawing is not essential;
all that is necessary at first is to give me YOUR IDEA.
I will at once inform you whether the idea is patent-
able, and, if so, give the necessary instructions for
further procedure.
Persons desirous of obtaining really reliable advice or
information regarding Patent matters are cordially in-
vited to consult me personally or by letter. In all cases
a careful consideration of their plans, an honest opinion,
and a prompt reply may be expected.
A. J. CALLINAIM, Patent Attorney,
Citizens’ Buildings, Collins Street, Melbourne.
CARBIDE.
For First-Class
Results use
Best
|*-“PERNIX” CARBIDE.
Addresses of Merchants distributing it can he obtained
from AUGUST BLUMENTHAL, LIMITED, 62
Pitt Street, Sydney, Sole As nts for Australia.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North western Ports,
GERALDTON (W.A.)
day, Sept. 30, and Oct.
28. Transhippintrat Fre-
mantle to all N.-West
Ports.
BRISBANE
MAOKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Ami Ports North to Oairns.
S.S. Grantala, Sept. 23.
S.S. Wollowra, Sept. 30
S.S. Innamincka, Oct. 6.
Best and Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can be
ascertained on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL Sc CO., LTD.,
Agents. 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE “ALL-llED” ROUTlii.
To VANCOUVER, via AUCKLAND
(N.Z.), FIJI, and HONOLULU,
thence by Rail to any part of
CANADA or UNITED STATES.
The Best Route to Europe.
SAILINGS :
And every 28 days thereafter.
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Illustrated Pamphlets Free on Application.
Agents throughout Canada, United States
and Europe—-Canadian Pacific Railway Co.
For full particulars apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George Street, Sydney.
F.—= H. 5.
Federal-Houlder-Shire Lines.
STEAM TO LONDON
Via SUEZ CANAL.
T. S.S. “ ESSEX,”
11,400 Tons. H. W Robertson, Commander.
Will be despatched from SYDNEY about 16th. Sept.
„ ~ ~ ADELAIDE „ 24th. Sept.
The saloon accommodation consists of all two-berth
cabins on the upper deck, situated amidships. The
superior third-class accommodation, comprised of two,
four and eight-berth cabins, situated on the main
deck, amidships, with dining-room on the upper deck.
Well lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious decks.
Third-class passengers supplied with fresh provi-
sions from cool chamber throughout the voyage. Sur-
geon and Stewardess carried. Electric light throughout.
Return and Round Trip tickets issued via Cape and
(or) Suez routes. Prepaid passages arranged.
Saloon. : Third Class.
FARES .. £49 10s. £l3 13s. £l5 15s. £l7 lis.
Steerage fares from Brisbane One Guinea extra.
To be followed at regular four-weekly intervals by
fast twin-screw passenger steamers. For further in-
formation, illustrated books, pamphlets, etc., apply to
BIRT & CO., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane;
H. JONES & CO., Ltd., Hobart;
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN & CO., Ltd., Melbourne;
i'Ti)i-'R. SMTTTT & CO.. Ltd.. Adelaide.
Hotels, &c.
George hotel,
St. Hilda., Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
Superior Inducements to Colonial Visitors at the
Westminster Palace Hotel,
VICTORIA STREET,
LONDON,
Opposite Westminster
Abbey and the Houses
England. of Parliament.
A thoroughly comfortable Home-like liotel,
located in one of the best districts in London.
Most convenient situation for business or pleasure.
Single bedrooms from 3/C, and Double Bedrooms
from 5/6 per dav, and NO ATTENDANCE
CHARGES.
Illustrated Tariff Booklet Sent on Request.
GEO. J. BRINK\VORTH, Manager.
BRISBANE VISITORS.
Xshe HOTEL VICTORIA,
Victoria Place, Brisbane, is MOST CENTRAL.
LARGE NEW BEDROOMS, with all latest Modern
Conveniences. Tariff from 61- a
JOHN BROSNAN, Proprietor.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULTS INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Coughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression tomediateiy
relieved by GRIMAURT & Co's INDIAN CIGAR-
ETTES. Sold bv all Chrmist*.


CAIRNS.
The Great Winter Pleasure
Trip to Sunny Queensland
m
9
M f
PH 4
ft .7
SEEN
THROUGH
A CAIRNS
TUNNEL.
CAIRNS
is picturesquely situated, has a healthy
climate, and the temperature in winter
seldom falls below 50°. First-class
hotel accommodation at Cairns and
Kuranda (Barron Falls) can be
obtained at a reasonable tariff, and the
fishing at Cairns is excellent. A trip
to the Barron Falls and gorgeous
scenery about that part of North
Queensland should not be missed.
For Fares and all Particulars
.. . -apply to ...
HOWARD SMITH GO. LTD
by Modern
Inter-State
Steamships.
SMOOTH WATER
SPRING-LIKE CLIMATE.
Up-to-Date and Comfortable
Steamships.
s.ri&H&H
■B
’W"‘ >■
m*
sr>
mKOSt.
wn.
mm
m
im
m
BARRON GORGE.
MR. DONALD McDONALD (the well-known writer)
describes the trip as follows: —
the greater part of the journey on the Queensland coast the steamer runs between the
P Great Barrier Reef and the mainland, making it one of the smoothest of the sea trips of Aus-
tralasia. The route is dotted with picturesque islands, covered with foliage strange to
southern eyes, and the boat is ever rounding headlands, streaming into fine bays and estuaries. The
famous Whitsunday Passage, between Mackay and Bowen, is extremely picturesque.”
■ I
:
Hi
1111111 l
i m (I C2L iflllP M||! I|
m
1®
Hi
fcM
;
m
m
m
a I ■Ol
,
i
m
&
:
mm
■HI
■K
| ' s?§«■»>
MR
mm
■
HI
SH
REGULAR &
EREQUENT SAILINGS BETWEEN
WEST AUSTRALIA, SQUTH AUSTRALIA.
VICTORIA, NEWSOUTO
I. ,} , *
and all
USTRAUAN STATE
fgh
ADELAIDES. C 9 LLP 'A.U.SIN.C? LIMITED
MFILWRAITH. M C EAC-HARN 4 C? PTT L™
fgh
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP GO. LTD.
AUSTRALASIAN UNITED STEAM NAVIGATION GO. LTD.


fgh
Children Thrive
on ANGIER’S.
There is nothing better for delicate children than a
course of Angier’s Emulsion. Bland and pleasant,
soothing alike to throat, lungs, stomach and intestines,
an aid to appetite and digestion, and a splendid tonic and
builder, it is the ideal remedy for children 's ailments, and
no mother should be without a bottle in the house. The
medical profession prescribe Angier's Emulsion not only
for coughs, bronchitis, whooping cough and all lung
affections, but also for scrofula, rickets and all wasting
diseases. Of Chemists, 1/3, 2/9 and 4/6.
“THE CHANGE IN HER IS WONDERFUL.”
8 Hampden Street, North Sydney, Aus.
Dear Sirs, —My little girl has been a constant anxiety owing-' to
loss of appetite and a very trying cough. I was so pleased to see
her relish her food after she had had a sample bottle of Angier's
that I got a large '4/6) bottle, which she has just finished.. The
change in her is wonderful; the cough is quite gone, she has put on
firm flesh and has a good colour and appetite. To have accomplished
this with a really palatable mixture is a great cause of thankfulness
to me and you have my full consent to publish this letter in case it
may persuade other mothers to try Angier's Emulsion.
(Signed) Mrs. K. WILKINS.
A FREE SAMPLE
on receipt of 4d. postage; mention this paper.
THE ANGIER CHEMICAL CO., Ltd.. 7 Barrack St., Sydney.
Mil
f 9
: S
3t*
Wiiiiii
ii t s!' r-;r
H i
! !
Cn
%
fgh
fgh
The Right Way to Buy Clothes.
In buying clothes, some things you can see for your-
self —color, weave, style, fit, price; your judgment for
your clothes is your best guide.
But some things you can't see —quality of fabrics,
quality of “insides,” quality of Tailoring.
Judge for yourself in the things you can see; our
Name on a garment is complete security for you in
the things you can't see. That’s why we say it s a
small thing to look for, and a big thing to find; and
that’s why it pays to look for it; and find it.
Our Celebrated Machine Made to Measure
BOSINESS SPITS, 651-, 70)-, 75|-
Write for Self-Measurement Forms and Patterns.
PIKE BROTHERS Ltd.
BRISBANE.
fgh
IN BANANA LAND
The proud confession of the Brisbane
Courier :
Japan, as a matter of fact, is our protector for the
next 10 years.
Then Heaven help the lamb !
Brisbane’s Water and Sewerage Board —
which doesn’t sewer worth tuppence—pro-
poses to construct another reservoir capable
of holding 5,800,000,000 gallons of water.
It will receive the water from the Cabbage-
tree Creek catchment area, which covers
28 A square miles. The proposed reservoir
will come in handy when a sewerage scheme
is incubated, especially if a dry time strikes
Bananaland. Curing the 1902 drought Bris-
bane’s tongue got very dry at times, and the
city has grown a big bit since then.
Queensland Minister for Lands Macartney
is resigning his seat for Brisbane North to
become a candidate for his old constituency,
Toowong. He lost it at the 1908 election to
It. J. Cottell, who died the other day. Tom
Welsby, who, with Philip Frankel, put up an
unsuccessful fight against Labor-leader Bow-
man and Peter McLachlan for the Forti-
tude Valley seat at the last general election,
is the Denham candidate for the Brisbane
North vacancy. J. T. Gilday, secretary of
the Federated Butchers’ Union, is opposing
Macartney, and Richard Sumner, who used
to represent Nundah, is the Labor candidate
for Brisbane North.
Denham’s party begins to wonder what
sort of a Jonah it has got hold of. In the
few months during which he has been in
charge, he has buried no less than four of
his followers.
August 21 was the fiftieth anniversary of
the first State trial in Australia —Regina v.
Pugh. Pugh was printer and publisher. or
the Brisbane Courier, and the Legislative
Council had instructed Attorney-General
Ratcliffe Pring to prosecute him for sedi-
tious libel in commenting upon certain reso-
lutions passed by the Council with reference
to Judge Lutwyche. The Attorney-General
and John Bramston, who was the next At-
torney-General,* prosecuted, and barristers
Jones and Carey, instructed by Charles
Lilley and J. F. Garrick, both of whom after-
wards became barristers and “took silk,” ap-
peared for the defence. The jury spent only
a few minutes in finding a verdict of not
guilty; and that night fireworks were let off
and bonfires were lighted in the streets of
Brisbane.
THE SUPREME TEST.
PROFESSOR BUNKUM : “I now
introduce to you Braind , the marvel-
lous man-ape. This wonderful creature , gentlemen, can perform all the most intelligent
and important tasks of daily life.'”
GIPPSIAND COCKY: “ Can he milk?”
The Inspector of Bananaland Orphanages
again breaks a lance against that venerable
inst itution, “Mother.” Theoretically (he
XX’, "»«>“ is “ instit “X;
But when the actual, cases that come unde
our notice are considered one doubts
whether the. mother is really the best person
to take charge of children. In a great num-
per 0 f State-assisted cases, I can frankly say
that the children would be better cared for
, £ ~ .
lf removed from their own mother. On t
other hand, the inspector has the highest
opinion of the foster-mothers. Their work
is worthy of great admiration. Ihe love and
affection bestowed on children by the tester
mother is beypnd the comprehension of those
who are not in touch with the work. No
wonder Mother s Day fell flat. Ihe star
of the Foster Mother was just dawning.
The righteous Denham Government has
been raiding two-up schools and betting
shops of late in a virtuous fury. The other
day Premier Denham informed the Assem-
bly that nearly 300 permits had been issued
in 12 months to churches and kindred reli-
gious institutions to hold raffles, lotteries and
art unions. “My House shall be called a
House of Prayer, but ye have made it a
Gambling Den!”
Writes the Q. Inspector of Orphanages on
a matter of grave social import: —
The State requires children, but, I think, healthy
ones. Some mothers, whose husbands were classed
as incurables, have had increases in their families,
and assistance has been paid right from the birth of
the child. One woman, in March, 1909, was re-
ceiving State assistance for four children. She in-
formed me that her husband, who had been suffering
from consumption for several years, had returned
home from the hospital. In October, 1910, she
again applied for help. Her husband was again in
the hospital much worse, but she had then six
children instead of four. Just think of it! State
funds being actually used for the propagation of
consumption !
Some 150 people of the old Pitcairn Is-
land stock feel that they want another
change—preferably to Queensland this time.
So the Banana country is arranging to form
a group settlement. The expected arrivals
are the descendants, more or less, of the
Bounty mutineers of the old whiskered year
1790. Those people went to Tahiti, and
there intermarried with the brown daugh-
ters of the island. Some stayed at Tahiti,
and were captured and more or less hanged;
nine of them, with six niggers and 12 brown
dames and demoiselles, reckoned Pitcairn
safer and moved on. On the new islet they
setlfbd down after a brief civil war, in which
the six niggers were killed, and established
a mixed race of slow, soft-spoken, contented
folk who knew so little of the world that
they scarcely knew there was a world. The
sons and djaughters of the mutiny were after-
wards shifted to Norfolk Island, but the
bustle and: strenuousness of that place was
too much for some of them, and they fled
back to the peaceful, silent fleshpots of Pit-
cairn. Now they propose to face the roar
and tumult of the tempestuous bullock dray
in Queensland. That will be bad enough,
but what a horror it would be if somebody
kidnapped a Pitcairner and deserted him in
the Strand, London, at 9 p.m. on Saturday!
The Call of the Flesh-Pots.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
bo .you hear the Flesh-pots calling in the city,
Brother Mine?
Do you hear a Voice that whispers “There is corn
and oil and wine!”
Do you hear the happy jingle of the glasses in the
bar ?
Do you hear the joy-bells tingle where the city lasses
are ?
Don’t you seem to find the Bush-land is a dreary
kind of beat?-
Don’t you fancy there’s a lush-land where they cool
your weary feet?
Don’t you dream when stars are drooping you’re a
bounder fat and fine?
Don’t you hear the Flesh-pots calling in the city,
Brother Mine?
Oil ! the Flesh is dreadful wicked —and it must be
mortified,
So the goody-goodies tell us (Moral folk who never
lied) ;
But, to judge by their dimensions in the region of the
girth
Where they keep the flesh in order there is mighty
little dearth.
It’s a mortal funny circumstance that folks who own
a lot
Are always telling poor folk: “Be content with what
you’ve got” ;
But how seldom do they clamor when they open up
the wine—
“ Come along and try the Flesh-pots and the Bottle,
Brother Mine?”
Your soul may yearn for better things, and seek the
higher plane,
But flesh and blood are mighty prone to sink to
earth again.
The manna in the wilderness may feed us many a
day,
But manna mush for twenty years is anything but
gay.
For fasting and for praying desert life’s without a
peer,
But Adam Old has yearnings that will culminate in
Beer;
When you’ve passed a quarter-century a-herding with
the swine,
You’re apt to hear the Calling of the Flesh-pots,
Brother Mine.
And the good man in the city, with his cosy feather-
bed,
Who never knew the want of place to lay his weary
head,
Who fills his precious Sabbath with the wind of
empty rant,
And lubricates his week-days with the oil of cunning
cant —
His breast is filled with horror that a Starveling
Fellow Soul
Should riot in a tumult when the bubbles kiss the
bowl.
And yet he lives but half a life who sits beneath his
vine,
In calm content, and never hears the Flesh-pots,
Brother Mine.
QUEENSLAND.
FURNESS BORN.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, September 9, 1911.
My Dear Thargomindah,—
The Macgregor, having expressed at the
Clifton Show his satisfaction with the stock
and agricultural capabilities of the State,
to-day escorted her Leddyship to Ascot, and
listened, with rapt attention, while she de-
clared a Congregational church bazaar open
for traffic and pillage. In return for the ad-
vertisement given the show by the Presence,
a bunch of flowering vegetables was handed
up, and “Gor’save” was dolorously chanted
by Wowsers and other Bohemians.
The week’s disasters have included an
unusual number of marriages. Bertha Mor-
rison and Mr. Harry Gearing led off, and
their example was followed at intervals by
Miss Essie Degn with the aid of Mr. Hayes,
and Miss Ernestine Schureck in league with
Mr. Bennett. Each ceremony was framed
in white satin and decorated with orange
blossoms and qhampagne corks. Talking of
weddings, 1 learn that a contract will be
signed in Melb. shortly, between Dr. E. B.
Heffernan, of Hey field (Vic.), and Dr. Hilda
Greenshields, the resident medical officer of
our Lady Bowen Hospital. Dr. Hilda, a cheery,
pretty little soul whose taste in dress and
hats is beyond that which usually associates
with the letters M. 8., will leave Brisbane
for the Weary capital next month. The
noose will be tightened at the Henry Berry
homestead, Mrs. H. B. being the bride-
groom’s mother.
The Commercial Rowing Club recently
decorated its riverside club house with elec-
tric lights and lanterns, and passed round
the effusive welcome to its girl friends, who
danced and suppered joyously at its expense.
The Ladies’ Rowing Club engineered an-
other frivol an evening later, when the
claret cup, flirtation and other accessories
were given a vote of general appreciation.
Mrs. Mahlon Cowlishaw, of Sydney, and
daughter Stella, are visiting relatives here,
and teas in their honor have become a habit.
Mrs. Tom Woolnough, a niece of the Cow-
lishaw family, took a hand on Thursday,
when several of the Very Tony accepted
bath-buns and other sustenance.
The citron-face which vice-regality turns
to the press representatives at times, re-
minds me of the female half of one Governor
who, while scratching hard in the gold-dust
for the benefit of a long, thin, attenuated
charity, turned to a local reporteress and
almost pleasantly invited her to lend a hand
or its equivalent. The professional lady ex-
plained the reason of her presence, and her
inability to attend to anything but her
work. “Dear, dear,” said the Imported Per-
sonage, gazing scornfully through her eye-
panes ; “what one will do to save a shil-
ling !”
Several of our musicians have decided
that good music shall be heard. Where-
fore private concerts of the Chamber variety
are loud in the land. The latest was given
by Miss Lena Hammond (whose contralto
is not unknown to you), Miss Lucy Baker
and Mr. Percy Brier. The last-named pre-
faced each number with a short description,
which enabled an untutored Plutocracy to
appear wise in its unmusical generation.
The luck of the politician again ! On Thurs-
day evening Mr. Ryan, M.L.A., was con-
suming a quart or so of soup, when the shin-
bone of a dinosaur, or something, wedged
itself in his wind-tube. Fortunately, or un-
fortunately—you can take your choice —an-
other Parliamentarian who was present had
a knowledge of first-aid, and yanked the ob-
struction clear, in time to save Ryan from
suffocation. Life is full of trouble.
Those unfortunate individuals who
chanced to board the Van Linschoten while
it lay at Pinkenba, have been coralled, and
firmly vaccinated, by an anxious Board of
Health, The three passengers who had left
the. vessel before the small-pox scare started
to rampage, were also pounced on after an
arduous search, and now figure forlornly
among the, detainees. Rpmor hath it that
one contact, a man of ink, escaped the wrath
to come by a timely exit to the West, and
his bright home is now in the setting sun.
Arrived back in. Brisbane this week, after
many moons in the Wool Country near Bar-
caldine, “Weary” Hammond, one of Queens-
land’s most strenuous hoofs in the Rugby
field. An injury received at Barcaldine will
prevent him pursuing the jhfseyed enemy in
the future, and brutal assault on the ball
is “off.”
The “Gay Gordons” co. has moved south
again, dragging its alleged funny men in its
train; and Cigarette, Ouida’s tempestuous
little vivandidre, will die nightly in the arms
of the imperturbable and much-beloved
Bertie, till the next stage heroine elbows her
to one side.
After a hurried tour of the Highlands the
Andrew Menzies have departed, bag and
baggage, for America, where they will spend
at least two years before returning to the
Land of the Wattle.
Yours, affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.


Ipll I 1 " ' x v - f I - 1
*
/ ... ■
, *- - . . M | f |,. |■- -
sKßaSnßtt&CHtt
m
WWSB
«£g
2A£fk2£Bßk fBSBi
Mi
xsm’sm
3j&g||ggg£ "4,
i£ *Sw&\
M
:
-v.
A J
■ : ■
... v .
wsimmM.
■
x v *-*' • * «, c.'- •'*.{.<'W3F ’■• £>*,' a wi f •; A *-?•»* ‘
.■ - -■'■■: ■■ "'. ■■■• ■
Ma;®'
. ...
1111
: ililßß
W§W* -s ,Vv.3C!
3»SBS( |®S " '-"■ . # " - \ SsMCSft &SS.
MMNMI
— H
■■■■■■■■
.
fgh
fgh
fgh
fgh
fghfgh
ĥfg
fgh
“Master's
F avorite'
SPARKLING
* XXXX ALE •
i. ~ «,. f . > ' ’* - ' ' ' / *
The Wine of the Barley.
FOR countless generations Ale has been a favorite beverage.
It was drunk in Egypt 3000 years before the Christian
era; it' was known and appreciated by the ancient Gauls;
it was the favorite liquor of the Anglo-Saxons and Danes, and
is still the premier drink of the most alert and active peoples of
the world. It was the drink of the lusty and strong, the “doers”
in the history of the past.
Cascade Ale is akin to the ale of old England, for it is rich
in the qualities that promote health and strength. That its merits
are appreciated by those most competent to judge is proved by
the rapidly-grov/ing sales in every part of the Commonwealth.
Sold at all first-class hotels and stores.
Cascade Ale.
©


Ti)c Uoioi) Bai)k of Australia Linjit^d.
BALANCE-SHEET, 28th FEBRUARY, 1911.
0 0
LIABILITIES.
Capital, £4,500,000;
less reserve
liability, £3,-
000,000 ; paid
up . . £1,500,000
Reserve Fund
Invested in the
names of trus-
tees as per
contra, £1,000,-
000 : not speci-
fically invested,
£350,000
Balance of undi
vided profits
1,350.000 0 0
147,189 8 9
Circulation
Beposits (includ-
i n g inscribed
stock depo
its)
Rills payable and
other liabilities
(including re-
serves held
against contin-
gencies)
£543,925 0 0
£2,997,189 8 9
22.817.957 18
2,042,520 1 0
25,401.402 19
£28,401,592 8 4
ASSETS.
Specie on hand and cash balances £4,852,760 8 11
Bullion and advances on bullion . . 100,95/ 14
Money at call and short notice
in London 930,000 0 0
Investments —
Reserve Fund —
Consols, £750,-
000 ; local loans
(imperial Gov-
ment stock),
a. 250,000 . . 3:1,000,000 0 0
Other Investments —
Consols, and ,
other stocks of,
o r guaranteed
by, the Imper-
ial Government,
£235,355/5/9 ;
1 n dia Govern-
m en t sterling
stocks, £50,224
15/'- ; Colonial
Government,pub-
lic boards, apd
municipal, .stocks
arid debentures,
£^72.4,475/15/7 1,010,055 16 4
Balance of remittances and drifts
in transitu, and bills receivable
at London office .
2,010,055 16 4
Bills discounted, loans, and other
securities at the branches and
in London
Bank premises
and property
in the colonies £427,093 2 9
Less appropria-
tion from pro-
fits
London leasehold
premises
Reserves against
same and ac-
crued interest
3,738,590 19 0
lB 8
10,000 0 0
142,304 19 4
23,208 13 4
16,183,038 0 11
417,093 2 9
119,096 6 0
£28,401,592 8 4
STATEMENT OF PROFITS.
Balance of undivided profits on 31st August, 1910.
Bess dividend and bonus —January, 1911
Leaving a balance of • ■
Profits of the past half-year, after making provision
and doubtful debts, and other contingencies . .
Less: .. , , .
Remuneration to the local directors, and salaries
and allowances to the colonial staff . .
General expenses in the colonies, including rent,
taxes, stationery, etc. .. •• •• ••
Remuneration to the Board of Directors and
Auditors, salaries of London office staff, rent,
taxes, stationery, and general expenses
Income tax
ifi
respect of bad
.. . . . . £305,385 15
£100,749 4 4
43,009 10 4
16,513 12 0
9,306 9 5
169,578 16
£146,382 9 2
105,000 0 0
. £41,382 9 2
8
1
- 135,806 19 7
£177,189 8 9
Deduct: , , .
Appropriation to write down bank premises and property
in the colonies £ ln’nnn
Transfer to Reserve Fund . . . . • • • • • • 2u,uuu
30.000 0 0
Balance of undivided profits at this date ..
..£147,189 8 9
London, lltli July, 1911.
H. P. STURGIS.
C. A. GALTON, >
W. R. MEWBURN, /
Directors.
A. C. WILLIS, Manager.
C. M. C. SHANNON, Accountant.
AUDITORS’ CERTIFICATE AJjTD REPORT.
1908,
In accordance with the provisions of section 113 of the Companies (Consolidation) Act
with the books at head o»oe, and hav, had aocj. to th«
branch accounts transmitted to the head office from the colonies We have verified the c ? r n n( l™ and
the cash, monev at call and short notice, investments, and the bills of exchange ld ".
having obtained all the information and explanations we have required, we are of opinion that such
balance-sheet is properly drawn up so as to exhibit a true and correct view of the state of the company
affairs according- to the best of our information and the explanations given to us, and as Jiown by t
books of the company and the said branch sfflTH> and WHINNEY , )
London, E.C., 11th July, 1911. Chartered Accountants, i
FOR THE SKIN.
We are in for a HOT SUMMER—this means that Ladies will find it increasingly difficult to
preserve that beautifully velvet skin which is one of their chief charms The difficulty disap-
pears “like snow before the sun” if ladies will only prepare their skin by consistently using
ICILMA FLUOR. CREAM,
the world-famed face cream -without grease, which brings the beauty that lasts. A little
rubbed on the skin daily, especially before going out, prevents the ravages of the Australian
Climate, leaves no trace on the skin, and never grows hair.
2
per pot, or
Sample tube
3d. stamps.
ALL CHEMISTS, or
ICILMA DEPOT, 139 yorkltreet, SYDNEY.
f
ORDER
BY
MAIL.
“ POT POURRI ” Cigarettes.— The highest at 6d. per packet of io ;
4/6 per ioo. J.
“ POT POURRI " Cigars.— A fragrant smoke— 3d. etich ; 5 for l/= ; 18/6 per 100.
“ POT POURRI ” Tobacco.— 40Z. tins, 2/- ; Boz. tins, 4/- ; 8/- per lb. There is none
better than this—it is the TEST.
“POT POURRI" Pipes, Silver-mounted, superior quality, all shapes, 2/6 each.
“POT POURRI" always the same, always enjoyable.
Cli< nts in country or other States. ORDER NOW, and it "ill be
posted FREE by return, with Catalogue which will interest you.
A. A. MARKS, Sole Agent, 376 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
SOR
THROATS
The
Great
Defender.
Hearne’s
Bronchitis
Cure.
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its splendid
healing power. Sufferers from Bronchitis, Cough, Croup, Asthma,
Hoarseness, Difficulty of Breathing, Pain or Soreness in the cheSt,
experience delightful and rapid relief, and to those who are subject
to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a complete cure.
It is most comforting in allaying Irritation in the Throat and giving
Strength to the Voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to
become chronic nor Consumption to develop. Consumption is not
known where "Coughs” have, on their first appearance, been
properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without
it, as taken at the beginning, a dose or two is generally sufficient,,
and a complete cure is certain.
Sold by all Chemists and Medicine Vendors^
NATURAL
ENOS
HEALTH-GIVING
FRUIT
REFRESHING
SALT
INVIGORATING
fgh
fgh
UNDER
VICE-REGAL
fgh
PATRONAGE
The Misses Isaacs,
Ladies’ Hairdressers. Halr-
workers & Dermatologists,
161 KING STREET, SYDNEY, between Elizabeth & Castlereasrh Streets.
Transformations from £4/4/- Tails from 7/6. Puffs from 25 - set. Fringes from 7/6,
Telephone 213 S Central. COMBINGS MADE UP.
Country orders reoeive prompt attention.
ARE YOU
RUPTURED
Have yon grown tired of wearing useless and
cumbersome trusses? Do you wint to pbtain an
appliance that is not only comfortable to wear,
but one I HAT WILL HOLD YOUR RUPTURE UNDER
ALL CONDITIONS? Then write us, and we will
send you particulars and testimonials regarding
our
AIRCUSHION APPLIANCE
wbicb is sornetlvng entirely new. is in fact, THE
BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE OF THE CENTURY. No
galling steel sprints or elpiflng leather under-
straps. The pad isinude of soft pliable rubber
wi'lch ptvsseH gently, yet firmly on THE CORRECT
SPOT. To show what we think of the Appliance
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The Trice is within
of all. Can von ask for more? PERFECT EaSS
AND COMF'RT F 10M THE FIRST DAY’S USE. An
bppliintce suitnb e lor men, women and children
Descriptive Pamphlet Posted Free.
THE WINSLOW CO..
•49 CCU.IN9 CT., MEkBOURttK, V’O.
Rest and Comfort
for
the mother, and health for the baby follow the
use of the ‘Allenburys’ Foods. They resemble
healthy human milk, in composition, nutri-
tive value and digestibility. Babies fed on
the ‘Allenburys’ Foods invariably thrive well.
gpt* PAMPHLET ON INFANT FEEDING
—AND MANAGEMENT FREE.—
MILK FOOD No. 1. MILK FOOD No. 2.
From birth to 3 months. , From 3to 6 months.
MALTED FOOD NO. 3.
From 0 months upwards.
The Allenbupys , Rusks
(Malted).
A valuable addition to the baby’s dietary, when
ten months old and after. They provide an
excellent, nourishing and appetising meal,
specially useful during the troublesome time
of teething. Eaten dry they mechanically aid
the cutting of teeth.
Allen & Hanburts Ltd., London, England, and Market Street, Sydney*
&


The Chalmers has been
recommended to me.”
Rafter a - v ’ both ' n Sydney and Melbourne, intending purchasers come to our showrooms to
see the Chalmers men from the North of Queensland, men from Tasmania, men from all over
Australia.
Me take this condition to mean that the Chalmers car has not only now made a good reputa-
tion in our- country, but also that the Chalmers Company has succeeded in building cars that
appeal to the careful buyers here.
~ of the 46 cars we have sold since Christmas, 35 of them were Chalmers cars; out of
these 35 purchasers, 12 were experienced motorists—men who had previously owned cars. Again,
there were four repeat orders from Chalmers owners. «
From Sydney to Narromine, 300 miles, at an average of 33 miles per hour, and over 20 miles
to the. gallon of fuel. From Warialda to Newcastle, 310 miles, in daylight. Seven thousand
nines in 10 weeks, and the front tyres still good. These records speak for themselves.
20-30 H.P. Touring Car
equipped with Five Lamps,
Generator, 880 x 120
Tyres,
£490
Both
Guaran-
teed
Two
Years.
35-40 H.P. Torpedo
with full equipment
and 920 x 120
tyres,
£790
ART CATALOGUES ARE FREE.
GET ONE.
ROY W. SANDFORD
Agent for Chalmers and Thomas Cars and Empire Runabouts,
105 EXHIBITION ST.. MELBOURNE; 181 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY.
fgh
he World’s Standard
Valveless Engine.
TO THE FARMER,
the FERRO ENGINE has
proven itself an inestimable
boon by relieving him of the hard work about the
farm, such as pumping water, chaff and ensilage
cutting, bagging and hoisting, corn grinding, husk-
ing and shelling, sawing wood, separating cream,
driving winnowers or any machine for which
moderate power is required. Also on account of the
Increased profit made by their use, which in many
cases has more than paid for the entire outfit before
the first season is over.
Drop a postcard to the nearest agent, giving par-
ticulars of machine or plant for which you require
power, and he will advise you of the most suitable
engine for the purpose. YOU WILL REMEMBER
THEIR HONEST SERVICE LONG AFTER YOU
HAVE FORGOTTEN THE SMALL COST.
Made in the following sizes suitable for
Stationary, Portable or Marine use:
3,4, 5K jy 2 , 8,11,12, 15, 17, 25 B.H.P.
FERRO AGENTS:
Hall Bros., Druitt St., SYDNEY.
Acme Motor & Engr. Co., Lonsdale St., MELBOURNE.
Howard Motor & Cycle Co., Queen St., BRISBANE.
F. J. Langley, Torrens St E., ADELAIDE.
Perth Motor House, Hay St, PERTH.
Wearne & Ceard, LAUNCESTON.
Hayward & Garrett, Stuart St., DUNEDIN.
H. T. Whitson & Co., Customs St. W., AUCKLAND
H. T. Moore, APIA, SAMOA.
Every Careful Man has an
ONOTO PEN
and Every Careful Woman 100.
It’s the Pen for the careful—always ready to
write, and write well.
It has two supreme merits— it Fills Itself from
any ink supply, and it Cannot Leak.
Price
Are you careful ?—then ask your stationer for
an ONOTO.
12/- and upwards at all
stores, jewellers, etc.
Made in Britain by British Labour,
Booklet about it free from the makers, Thos,
de la Rue & Co., Ltd,, 351 Bunhill Row,
London, E.C., or the Australasian Rep-
resentative, Norman Baker,
50 York St., Sydney.
stationers
ALCOCK’S
Billiard Tables
Vi i
V/
6
X?
1
THE business man finds recreation and respite
from the worries of the day in billiards. There
friends meet and together enjoy the game that
calls forth concentration, skill and judgment.
On an ALCOCK table the balls run perfectly,
the angles are accurate and the cushions play beauti-
fully, adding materially to the enjoyment of the game.
In the hotel; in the club; in the home —
wherever men largely congregate, there an Alcock
Billiard Table is usually found.
These are the same tables on which George
Gray and Fred Lindrum, jun., have become famous
for their record breaks.
The “Bijou” is a favorite home billiard table,
fitted with fast running cushions, superfine billiard
cloth, and faultlessly finished.
Write for Illustrated Billiard Catalogue.
ALCOCK & CO. PTY. LTD.,
BILLIARD TABLE MANUFACTURERS,
397 George St., Sydney. 114 Edward St., Brisbane. Baker
Buildings, Featherstone St., Wellington. 155 Elizabeth St.,
Melbourne. 7 King William St., Adelaide. Murray St., Perth.
COUGHS
Colds, Asthma, Bronchitis and '
Lung troubles quickly cured by
POWELLS
BALSAM
OF
ANISEED
Of All Stores
and Chemists,
oIISAM flPi
%
Wholesale Agents for Victoria: DUERDEN & SAINSBURY, Melbourne.
FREE
Colored and Artistic
' Post Cards.
NO MONEY WANTED.
Send us your name and address and we'will forward vou 12 packets, each
containing 6 of our colored and high art Post Cards to sell for us at fd,
per packet. \\ hen you have sold the cards, return us our Cs., and we will
send you for your trouble any present vou may choose from the list of
jewellery which we forward, ky cont\nuing the sale of our cards vou
can earn a Ladies’ or Gent.’e Silver Watch and Chain.
Remember, we want to do business with vou again, and to do this
we must give you full satisfaction. Wi> take all the risk. You
can return the cards if notsold. We hixvo no connection with
fgh
F
R
E
E
® riri T\* } Se ? re the largest dealers in post cards in Australia, and import our
jewellery, or we could not make you this liberal offer. Be the first in your district Our nost
cards sell at once, wherever seen. F
REGAL POST CARD CO.
126
BOND ST., SYDNEY.


r
IH
“THE HEART OF THE AUTOMOBILE”—
Famous Schebler Carburetor
The best Vaporising- Device for ALL PETROL
ENGlNES—either Land or Marine, Stationary
or Moving. If you want to get more HORSE-
POWER from your Engine or a GREATER
NUMBER OF MILES PER GALLON use
“THE SCHEBLER.” Booklet and all Infor-
mation Free. Correspondence Invited.
ROBERT C. SWAN & CO. LTD.,
304 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
(The Acetylene Burner House).
SPRING SUITINGS, in
the Latest Novelties,
now opened up.
David Braham 8 Co.,
TAILORS.
76 Market St., Sydney
(Next Door to Farmer’s).
Call or Write for Patterns.
Tbe NelSoo Mooarcb
Automatic Carboijator.
fgh
Not only the best at the price, but
best at any price.
Saves you Money every day.
Does away with the drudgery incident
to charging portable cylinders.
The saving in gas more than pays the
interest on the outlay.
CONTINUOUS. When we say “continuous”
we mean that the carbonated water
can be drawn continuously from this
apparatus without blowing off the
gas to refill the cylinder. This
machine will carbonate the water
as fast as it can be drawn off at
the Fountain. Every particle of
gas that the consumer pays for is
utilised. The saturation is complete.
The only human aid that is neces-
sary is to connect a fresh tube
of gas. .
We are SPECIALISTS in this line, and supply goods that are
always dependable. Anything you want in the Soda
Fountain line from a Straw to a Soda Fountain.
We have secured the order for the Crystal Palace Fountains,
George Street, Sydney, the largest in Australia. Total
length 28ft. This being a repeat order.
Let us quote you for anything you may require
NdSoi) CarbooatiQg Co. Ltd.,
(67 (jcorge Street, SYDN€Y.
Queensland Agents: Messrs. Short 8 Wilkins, 349 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Grand Opera by means
of the EDISON
PHONOGRAPH
Edison Phonographs echo every emotion of
the world’s greatest artists —-require no
skill to operate—and place the best of enter-
tainment within the reach of everybody.
Grand Opera is now attracting consider-
able attention throughout Australia by
reason of the visit of the Melba Grand Opera
Company. Many people will not have the
pleasure of hearing their superb voices, but
those who own an Edison Phonograph will
be able to have Grand Opera in the home
whenever they wish, the only expense being
the purchase of Records.
If you love good music, go to the nearest
dealer and hear the Edison Grand Opera
Records, Get lists from your dealer or from
us.
National Phonograph Co. of Australia, Ltd.
(Wholesale only),
Dept. 8., 364=372 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
Big G
Borated Goldenseal
Compound
I A safe and simple remedy for'
' Bronchitis, Catarrh, Hay Fever
inflammations, irritations, ulcer-
ations of ALL mucous membranes
or linings of the nose, tbroat,
stomach or urinary organs.
AT CHEMISTS
Why not cure yourself
Treatise with jach bottle
or mailed on request.
The Evans Chemical Co.
Cincinnati, Ohio,
U.S.A.
fgh
'sUNT/tf
Superior to
INJECTIONS
CUBEBS and
COPAIBA.
same
diseases without
inconvenience
in
48 hours.
Each Capsule bears the name
(m)
in
Q
TV-**
%
30 %
A Reliable, Keyless, Fly-back, Centre Second
Watch, in Oxidised Steel Case—the “Trotter,”
for official timing and professional purposes, 25/-
s
“ Derby” Double Chronograph, gives instan-
taneous records in minutes and seconds. Three-
quarter plate Lever, Ruby Jewelled, fine Chro-
nometer Expansion Balance, Brequet Hair
Spring. Solid Silver Open Case, £6/10/-;
Hunting, £7/10/-. 18ct. Gold Case: Open
Face, £2O ; Hunting, £22.
Our Leading Watch Values.
An Extra Strong Watch, manufactured
sneoiallv for us at the Waltham Factory.
Sterling- silver case, three-quarter plate,
jewelled levermovement. Grand value, £3/10/-
I
/
m
M
Bushman’s Lever Watch, specially suitable for
hard town and country wear. Keyless Lever
movement, jewelled, non-magrnetic, dust and
damp proof Oxidised Steel case. £l/1/-
Attractive Lames’ Waltham
Lever Watch, Three-quarter
Plate, Jewelled Compensating
Balance, Engraved lOct. Gold
Case, £B/10/- ; 14ct. Gold,
£lO/10/- ; 18ct. Gold, £l2/10/-
*
V.
.j3Mm
M
m
V
f.vAv
.'.V.vj
VAX
SC
'AV
V-v
'.‘Ai
<?>
i^r
•;.v:
yivi"
0»
>asc
<;:r.
Sasr.
XSVAW
•AW
wot.
i-.‘A2
Wv
m
•Tiiir.
W.v
*.»AV
1
OS
SC
s$
‘oor.
wOT.vA
‘AVOT.
SO
I
or/.
•ot
m
‘AW
xS-'A
Sir.
>ot
'Aw
>OT.
■siv
•Aw
•xr.
m
‘AW
sc
sc
Write for our
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE.
Every Stewart Dawson Watch guaranteed in writing, and given a week s trial.
9
Stewart Dawson & Co-
(Australia) Ltd.,
Strand Corner,
412 George Street, Sydney.


fgh
fhg
fhg
In all my
experien-
ce as a
grocer
I have
always
found
that
VAN
HOUTENS
COCOA
gives the greatest satis-
faction to my custom-
ers. Try it.
Pure , Soluble , and
Cheap to use because a
little goes a long way.
Ask your grocer fora gratis
Van Houten Novelty.
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
ftI EYE,
ointment
cures
;ttzE=E:<*>:=<:
V
INFLAMATION
of the Knee
CURED BY
Solomon
Solution
“Some time ago I suffered from
a swollen knee. Constant walking
on the hard pavements caused
-jnflamation to set in. I consulted
a 'doctor, but without relief. A
friend advised me to use SOLOMON
SOLUTION. I am pleased to say I did,
with the gratifying result that
after a few applications I was
cured.and have had no return of
the pain since.”
(Signed) J. J. I,i.oyd.
South Melbonrne.
Obtainable in 2/6 Jars from Store-
keepers and Chemists; post free
for 3/- from
SOLOMON COX & SON
439 Bourke St., Melbourne
A
A
'f«V
tss Well, of course
Anything worth doing &
worth doing well —so for
the antiseptic cleansing your
teeth need every day, use
CALVERTS
Carbolic Tooth Powder
Lcral Chemists and Stores sell it.
F. C. Calvert & Co*, Manchester, Eng.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONET TO LEND
On Security or Freehold or Leasehol i
City or Suburban Properties, or o>i
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Tills ofany or the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES Or INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
ur> to 20 per ce~nt. of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors
Short
Adriat
HEAD OF!
ROYAL
*l+
EXAMPLE
is a GUARANTEE for every purchaser of Phosferine that
the tonic is the verv best obtainable, embodies the highest skill,
and being the most potent remedy, benefits everyone equally
with Royalty. The original and genuine preparation is spelt
Honoured by
Commands from
The British
Royal Family
H.I.M. The
Empress of Russia
H.M. The
King of Greece
This world-renowned restorative medi-
cine has already for many years been
supplied by
ROYAL COMMANDS
To H.I.M. the Dowager Empress e
Russia
H.M. The Queen of Spain
H.I.H. the Grand Duchess of Hesse
H.I.H. the Grand Duchess Olga of
Russia
And the Principle Royalty and
Aristocracy throughout the world
SIR JOHN KIRK
THE FAMOUS CHIEF OF THE
RAGGED SCHOOL UNION
fhg
Photo —
Elliott &* Fry 4
London.
NOW VISITING AUSTRALIA.
Honoured by
Commands fro
H.M. The
King of Spain
H.M. The Queen
of Roumania
The Imperial
Family of China
Sir John Kirk (the Famous Chief of the Ragged School Union), writes: "I cannot withhold
my spontaneous testimony to the value of a remedy which, from personal experience, l nave
found to be so efficacious. In the neuralgic and other nerve disturbances consequent on
long, continuous brain activity, Phosferine fulfils its curative functions most successfully.
The Greatest of all Tonics
A PROYEN REMEDY FOR
Debility
Influenza
Indigestion
Sleeplessness
Exhaustion
Neuralgia
Maternity Weakness
Premature Decay
Mental Exhaustion
Loss of Appetite
Lassitude
Neuritis
Faintness
Brain-Fag
Anaemia
Backache
Rheumatism
Headache
Hysteria
Sciatica
and disorders consequent upon a reduced state of the nervous system.
SPECIAL WARNING
Insist upon having the original and genuine Phosferine (spelt
Phosferine) as supplied to Royalty, and prepared only by
Ashton & Parsons, Ltd., London. Similar names and styles are
deliberate attempts to deceive the purchaser, so do not be tricked
by appearance and sound into buying worthless imitations of
PHOSEERINE
The real Phosferine is the Royal Tonic, which fact assures
users that it is highly commended by the greatest living physicians.
Refuse all imitations under names that may be confused with
the original and genuine Phosferine, prepared only by
ASHTON & PARSONS, LTD., LONDON.
The 2/6 size contains nearly four times the 1/- size.
&
Prizes Value
IN THE
£,3000
8-HOUR
ART UNION
and SPORTS
(Under sanction of the Attorney-General). Drawn October 28,1911.
Ist Prize, value £650- 2nd Prize, value £350.
3rd Prize, value £2OO. And 347 other Valuable Prizes.
The First Prize last year was won by Mrs. D. Owen, Bulli, N.S.W.,
for the modest outlay of ONE SHILLING.
get a ticket and have A CHANCE FOR 1911.
Results of Drawing will be advertised in this paper on November 2.
To any person forwarding stamped addressed envelope, a list of
the results will be posted. Tickets may be had from Agents in all
towns, or direct from
JOHN W. DOYLE, Secretary, Trades-Hall, Sydney.
YOU DON’T KNOW WHAT A
* SMOKE* IS TILL YOU’VE
TRIED MY CIGARS
aur\.
I'M going to have my Cigars smoked over every
part of Australasia —and the most confirmed
pipe-smokers are going to be the biggest
smokers of my Cigars, too.
Talk about joy! Why, to sit round a camp
fire, over a billy of tea, pitching 1 1 your mates,
each of you smoking one of my Cigars, joy isn’t
in it! It’s just simply bliss!
As the yarns go round, the blue smoke
curling upwards in a fragrant cloud, the
smooth cool Havana flavor lingering on your
lips—l tell you, you'll spend some of the
happiest hours of your life.
fhg
Letters are coining in to
me in shoals from all over
Australasia, praising up my
Cigars. Take one I’ve just
got as I write this, for in-
stance —it's from a chap on a
cattle station up in Northern
Queensland. He writes:—
“Those DIADEM AS Cigars
of yoursare just alright. I’ve
always smoked a pipe—but
no more. Not that I've given
up pipe-smoking altogether;
but when I want areal smoke
—something rich—l light up
one of your DIADEMAS,
and give myself up to its
pure enjoyment.”
To make you acquainted
with my Cigars, and prove
their value, I make you this
FREE OFFER of
5 or 6 CIGARS
Remit the amount, and
I will deliver promptly,
postage or carriage paid,
to any address in Aus-
tralia.
Smoke 5 op 6 of them, and if they’re
not superior to most Cigars at double the
price, send the remainder back to me, and
I’JI return every penny of your money—no
charge made for the Cigars you’ve smoked.
My Cigars are made from the very finest '
mild, rich mellow Tobacco, the filling or inside
heart of the cigar being all straight long
leaf. The Cigars are hand-made by skilled
workers, and every box has to pass me before
it goes out to a customer; and is guaranteed
to burn freely and draw easily.
There sno “catch” about this offer—it’s just
plain and honest. To prove it, you can refer
as to my financial position and way of doing
business to the Manager of the Commercial Bank
of Australia, Collins Street, Melbourne. He’ll
vouch for me.
Send down for a box to-day—once you smoke
them you'll make it a habit, and buy regularly
from me. When ordering, say whether you
like light, medium, or dark colors.
My Only Address is
LOUIS KAUFFMANN
34 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE
'Ringing for More! 1
/A
Birds
Custard
stands alone in its absolute
purity, delicious flavor and
rich, egg like creaminess*
Has stood the test of time
Over 70 years' success . u


©
55
i©
National Arms Co.’s 12- or 16-Gauge D.8.8.L. Gun,
reintorced breech, top lever, full rebounding, bar interchangeable locks, Greener cross
bolt, extension rib, left full, right modified choke, 30in. specialsteel barrels, pistol grip,
walnut stock, engraved, weight of 12-gauge about 6|lb. to 71h.,
of 16-gauge 6|lb. to 6£lb. DELIVERED,
67/6
We can supply this Gun in 20-s-aug-e, at 14/- extra.
We are the Sole Ag-ents in N.S.W.'for the above Gun, which has been made to our own specifica-
tions, and therefore can thoroughly recommend same as n cheap, reliable weapon.
Harrington 8 Richardson’s
5.8.8. L. Gun,
fgh
12-g a u ge, top
action, solid case
hardened locks,
decarbonised steel barrel, 30in. pistol grip, walnut stock, weight
about 6£lb. Gun can be taken apart, same as an ordinary Double
Barrel Gun. Non-Ejector, 23/0; Ejector, 25/-
Postage—2/6 N.S.W.
4/8 Inter-State.
Our
Special
Snaps.
Send for our Illustrated
Sports, Fishing and
Tobacco Lists, FREE.
'THE MAINE
Pifle
“THE MAINE” S.S. Rifle
designed for 22 short, long, or extra long cartridges, Rim Fire. It
is a take-down, and can be taken apart easily and quickly, by simply
unscrewing the thumb-screw located underneath the fore arm. The action
used on this rifle is of the safety bolt type, and is exceedingly simple, con-
sisting of very few parts. The barrel is round, 18in. long, bored and rifled
with the same care as the military weapon, and guaranteed
accurate to 300yds. ; weight 31b., fitted with plain V back
sight
Or with Winchester Sliding Sights to 300yds.
Postage on one Riflle —1/3 N.S.W. ; 2/2 Inter-State.
12/6
15\-
fghfgh
REMINGTON RIFLES, No. 6 Model,
22 Calibre R.F., 20in. round blued
steel barrel, weight 3|lb.,
16/6
Or with Sliding Sights
21/
Postage—l/6 N.S.W.;
2/8 Inter-State
MICK SIMMONS, Ltd.
Head Depot, HAYMARKET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches —Hunter St., Newcastle f 273 Darling St., Balmain ( 197 Oxford
St., Sydney ; Church St., Parramatta ( 311 King St., Newtown . j 1
Schute, Bell & Go.
LIMITED,
WOOL and PRODUCE BROKERS,
44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
WOOL STORES'—Marris Street, Pyrmont.
Sell on Commission only.
New and thoroughly up-to-
date Stores. Inspection
invited. Personal atten-
tion a feature of the
business.
A Steadily growing com-
pany.
PRODUCE STORES—Athlone Place.
fgh
Extraordinary Success
OF THE
gh
31 h.p. Single Cylinder
MOTOR
BICYCLE
IN THE
LONDON TO EDINBURGH 81 BACK RIDE.
104 STARTED.—ONLY ONE B.S.A.—THAT AWARDED THE GOLD MEDAL.
In this ride only 32 out of 104 starters completed the double journey.
BIRMINGHAM TO LAND’S END & BACK RIDE.
37 ENTRIES.—ONLY TWO B.S.A.’s —BOTH AWARDED GOLD MEDALS.
Also FIRST and FASTEST TIME in both “Private Owners” and “Open”
Events in the M.C.U. of Ireland Hill Climb on June 10th.
The B.S.A. Motor Bicycle has proved a winner in practically every competition entered.
WRITE NOW FOR CATALOGUE, TO
D. Y. RENNIE, 5, Stock Exchange Buildings, MELBOURNE.
(Representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.)
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ UNIVERSAL BICYCLE.
Built of genuine B.S.A. Parts with EADIE Two-speed Coaster Hub. Free Wheel
on both gears, Back-pedalling and Front-rim Brake, and Dunlop Tyres. As
ridden by FRANCIS BIRTLES. £l2 10s. Write for Price List, post free.
Anthony Hordern ®. sons
Only Universal Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
Williams’
Talcum Powder
n
m
WJST
LoftH
Skit
p6*»
Four reasons for the rapidly
growing popularity of Wil-
liams 1 Talcum Powder*
1. The finest Talc the world
affords.
2. The sweetest, daintiest
perfumes.
3. Most artistic boxes.
4. The Hinged Top that prevents
sticking, leaking and loss of perfume.
The only High-Class Powder made
in the Popular Carnation Perfume.
Sold Everywhere.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1908 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 6d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made East, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s (id posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth, 1/6.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mech anics’
Workshop Handtbook, Is 3d. Quadrille Call Book,
2s. Adventures of a Flirt, Is. 3d. Parlor Tricks
and Games, Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
Is 2d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc.. Is 2d post.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ss. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain for the
British, 6d. How to Read Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. Theory of Value, Is 6d. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is 6d,
■
i
m
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR "PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 124 S Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which thev feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
SW BOOKSELLER TO THE- COMMONWEALTH.-*!
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Plat Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is 3d posted. Spekches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made EASy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustration*.-; and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor • Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d.
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougall Topped the Score, &
Other Verses, Is 3d. The Gay Count, Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, os.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Lee’s Priceless
Recipes, 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. !J](P Established 25 \ eaTs.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROn THIS ADVT.
♦
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How TO Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Old Busii Sonus, Is 3d post. Hr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical’ Palmistry, Is. Champions of the Bing,
Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. 6d. Secret
History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Decrees New Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s fid post.
INGERSOLL’S WORKS, Bd, 2S. HOW TO READ HEADS
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Ciievasse’s Advice to a
Wife 3s fid posted. Wonderful Budget Kong
Book’ over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. .
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy. Is post. 100 Aew
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 lllus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore s Univ ersal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
1b post 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete). is 6d posted. The Age of Reason by Paine,
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAV


D * SHELDONS
New Discovery
fgh
The Latest and Best
Of all the new discoveries in medical science the most
remarkable in recent years is one which has proved invalu-
able to thousands of people, and which has taken the place
o. all other remedies for the cure of coughs and colds. The
preparation is called Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery for
Coughs and Colds, and is a scientific compound of great
merit, it is most healing to the lungs and throat, and cures
the cough or cold in a remarkably short time, leaving no
bad after effects. As it contains no poisons of any kind it
is a perfectly safe remedy for children, and is particularly
good for croup and whooping cough. The dose is small,
and it L pleasant to take. Price, 1/6 and 3/-. ,
fgh
FOR
fghf
Dr. Sheldon s New Discovery
It has won the confidence of the parents and the love
of the children by its wonderful curative effect upon the
throat, chest and lungs. Children are particularly suscep-
tible to coughs and colds, and the medicine which always
cures and protects them from all dangers is the one the
mothers recognise as best.
It is a wise mother who prepares for trouble in time of
peace. She places Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery on the
shelf and rests secure against all winter dangers, knowing
well she has the remedy which will protect her little one
avainst the vicissitudes of cold weather.
ghfgh
AND
Colds
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd,
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Prize Medals.
ghfgh
Works s
Birmingham, England,
These series oh'
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. 1 hey glide
over the roughest
paper witli the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
HOLLOWAY’S
Pills (Q. Ointment
A TRIAL of HOLLOWAY’S PILLS has meant
The Dawning of a Brighter ©ay
to many a sufferer from liver, kidney and stomach
troubles. For over three-score years and ten they
have been supreme in all cases of biliousness,
headache, indigestion, depression and other com-
plaints which usually arise from constipation.
You should also use HOLLOWAY’S OINT-
MENT, which possesses remarkable healing
virtues in cases of skin affections and sores,
rheumatism, lumbago, sciatica, etc. See to
it that you always have a box and pot handy.
To be obtained from all Chemists, Stores,
etc.
Manufactured only at
113 SOUTHWARK ST. (late 78 New Oxford St.), LONDON, S.£.
In Memoriam,
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
rflO those who worship cammop-sepse
I 1 our paradise is out of bounds;
JL They drudge along their dreary
rounds, and close their eyes in self-
defence ;
They shudder at our laughter shrill, O
dweller on the city wall,
Not knowing how the moonbeams fall upon
your blossomed window sill.
No outlook can their souls devise except the
road they trudge and trust;
But I have lifted from the dust mine eyes
to find your questing eyes;
Let fools seek pleasure in the gloom, and
love the gloom for what it hides—
They cannot see the light that guides my
footsteps to yo» secret room.
Beyond its casement is a star; within its
walls an atmosphere
That makes the starlight’s meaning clear, its
spirit our familiar—
Venus herself, half-jealous lest Adonis for
your lips should sigh,
Made tender by desire when I kneel at your
knee and kiss your breast.
In all the crowded thoroughfare that lies
below our place of love,
None halts to cast his eyes above, for none
suspects a throne-room there,
Where one is crowned who needs no crown,
but that the sacrifice is sweet
To lay it at her lover’s feet, and do him hom-
age kneeling down.
What though our empire may not last?
What though the sands are running out
What Time, the traitor, casts about to break
the net that Love nas cast?
No wave stays ever at its crest, nor planet
at its zenith rides:
Enough to know, whate’er betides, we
plucked the bloom while at its best.
Even as incense was consumed when men
before their goddess fell,
That in their thoughts she yet might dwell
when at strange altars still it fumed,
So shall the fragrance of the rose, since
roses blow about you now,
Recall, some day, each loving vow that struck
to music life’s dull prose.
How should I not remember you, whose soul
is my soul’s counterpart,
Whose bosom beats beneath my heart, whose
kisses thrill me through and through ;
Whose love has taught me life is true, and
not a pinchbeck thing that palls,
While life remains or love enthralls —how
should 1 not remember you?
VICTORIA.
KETTLEDRUM.
The Rescue.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
quiet of an Bdwt. mining township
-—2 O years after its discovery and
12 years after the end of its boom —
brooded over the little Westralian mining
settlement. The long, wide, windswept
stretch of main street held practically
nothing hut golden heat, galvanised iron
roofs and steel-blue distance; a few goats
held the fort on the high backbone of the
buck reef; two gentlemen of leisure squatted
before the Club Hotel and spat at the flies.
The parson’s house-roof behind its pepper
trees crackled in the sun ; three goats sneezed
by the Government dam. In the paddock on
the flats near the railway, a supercilious
camel surveyed saltbush and mulga and the
township, splitting his upper lips as he
chewed ; near the power-house a dog dozed,
rousing himself at intervals to snap at the
battening flies. Everything quiet; no wind
to make a willy-willy; a stillness oppressive.
Suddenly from a house near the dam came
an angular lady with seven clothes pegs
in her mouth. She looked at the road and
the goats and the dam, and then, appar-
ently connecting the dam and the stillness,
dropped the clothes pegs, and rushed, dis-
hevelled by fear, her face grief-distorted.
She ran to the dam, then raised her hands
to tear at her hair, and screamed in horror
and affright.
“Oooooh! . . . Oooooh! . . . Oooooh! Wil-
lie !” The goats heard her, and sneezed
again. The high blue skies to which she
looked were impotent to help. Heaven
but reverberated her prayers.
Suddenly rounding the corner of an iron
shack came the mayor and local baker, coat-
less, and driving the heavy-footed horse
which drew the bread cart, rocking over the
uneven track like a barge in a cross sea. He
drove close to the edge of the dam where the
distraught lady made the welkin ring a com-
plete peal of bells, and the heavy horse
stopped as soon as he felt the backward pull
of the rein. The terrified lady saw him,
and ran to the shafts, shrieking wildly.
“Willie, my little Willie, in the dam!”
The baker slowly descended, and she
caught his sleeve.
“Willie! Little Willie in the dam !”
“All right, mum,’’ said the baker slowly.
“Just a minit. I’m the mayor. Just a
minit while I fasten the ’orse.”
She shrieked again about Willie being in
the dam, but he very slowly and deliberately
(as was his habit) put the strap between
the wheel spokes, and carefully sought for
the customary hole in the strap. That
found, he buckled it.
Then he said: “And now what is it,
mum ?”
“Little Willie in the dam.”
The baker walked to the edge of the em-
bankment and looked over into the thick
water.
“H’m,” he said after a study of the facts.
“In there, is he?”
“Willie, my little Willie, in the dam.”
“H’m. Have you got a clothes prop?”
“In the yard. Oh, Willie! Little Willie
in the dam!”
The baker selected the yard, and
off to get the clothes prop with the gait of a
man studying ft proposition with mftny pos-
sible solutions.
Meftnwhile the welkin rang like a tire-bell,
apjl in reply tg it the parson joined the dis-
tracted lady Oft the embapkmept- , „„ ,
“What i§ the matter, Mrs- Carboy? he
asked, suavely. ....
“Oh, Mr. Pennyshook! Willie s in the
dam ! He’s drowned.”
“My poor lady! But it may be better for
him —"better for us all.”
“Willie, Willie in the dam.”
The baker returned, with due regard to
the reposeful manner that was native to
him, dragging along an eccentrically twisted
prop of gimlet wood.
“Now, marm,” said he, “we’ll have him
out in a jiffy.” .
“Willie, my little Willie in the dam!
“My poor lady, what is his loss is our
gain!” . ~ ~ ~
“Now, don’t go puttin’ me out,” said the
baker, who had the star part, seeing that he
had the clothes prop, and wanted all the
stage. “Lemme get the prop down and rake
the bottom.”
“Willie, my little Willie in the dam!”
“My dear lady” .
“There y’are. I had him on, an y put
me out, an’ lie’s fell off.”
“Willie! in the dam.”
“Hold hard a bit. . . There, I got 1m
again ! My word lie’s heavy ! _ I got him !..
The prop’s giving way, I think. . . Hold
hard. Now we’ll have him in two twos. . .
Fell off’ again.”
“Willie in the dam !”
“My poor, suffering sister”
“You put me out! . . . Now I got him
here he is!”
“Willie ! My Willie !”
“Poor child ! Poor little lamb !
“Here he is.”
“Willie, my Willie!” , T>
“Poor little flower for the reapers! Poor
little flower!” „ .
The baker brought to the surface on the
prongs of the prop, bent almost to an arc
the body of a long deceased goat.
“Willie in the dam! Oh, my Willie in the
“Steady on, mum! Hold hard. An’ I’ll
fish for him again.”
“Willie in the dam! Oh, Millie, Willie
in the dam!”
“Tender little floweret!
“Don’t put me out! I’ll prod with this
till I get him, but don’t put me out.”
A little girl ran from the yard that had
yielded the clothes prop—ran to the dis-
tracted mother, and because the mother
shrieked, shrieked also.
“Oh, mum ! Wh-a-a-at’s the mat-matter i
“Oh, my little Mary! Dartin’ Mary!
Willie’s in the dam !”
“I’ll have him in a minit if you don t put
me out.”
“Tender flower”- _ ,
“Oh, mumma, Willie ain’t there! He s m
Mrs. Nexdore’s eatin’ joopoo.”
The parson stopped bleating tender
fldwer,” and looked at the spoiler of the
drama with more sorrow than he had shown
for the tragedy; the baker threw the clothes
prop into the dam, and withdrew to his
cart; the mother grasped Mary in her arms,
looked at the baker and the parson indig-
nantly, and hurried to Mrs. Nexdore’s.
And the goats sniffed contemptuously, for
they had known the facts all the time.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
A King of Kids.
THE CASTLE ROGERS RESTITUTION SYNDICATE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IT was Saturday noon. There was a
high post-and-rail fence of sawn tim-
ber around the deep dam at Waddy.
Danny Addis was hanging most gingerly
from the top rail by his calves. Fod Been-
by, having failed in an attempt to rival this
daring feat, was contorted in a knot on the
ground hard by, chin and knees close toge-
ther, his arms embracing his head, emitting
groans of ineffable agony. Fod sought to
convey an impression that he was mortally
injured, and the end was approaching
rapidly. Stonky Elliott, Dolf Ashworth and
Did Young watched the writhings of the
dying boy with apprehension.
Pepper Elliott arrived on the scene in a
feverish state with information of great pub-
lic interest, and the sad case of the mortally-
injured acrobat was abandoned. Elliott
was breathless. He was pointing across the
flat towards the quarry-holes.
“He’s there. I seen him,” gasped the
newsbearer.
“No fear!”
“He is, I tell yeh. Seen him meself. He’s
gotter tent in the furze. Seen him with me
own eyes —him ’n’ his dog.”
There was a rush for the quarries. Been-
by, forgetting his death agonies, was well in
front. Dan Addis, in his hurry, had fallen
from the rail, and was following lamely.
Further explanation from Elliott was un-
called for, but he was gasping particulars.
The interest of the boys just now was so
centred in one personality that an announce-
ment such as Pepper had made could apply
to nobody but old Bob Rogers.
They found Rogers sitting on the edge ot
the yellow waters under the steep embank-
ments of the big quarry. By his side sat his
astonishing dog. Rogers was fishing tor
yabbies; so was the dog! At first glance
old Bob’s face looked like a bunch ot stiff,
yellowy-grey hair, in which was thrust a
short clay pipe. The dog, Percy, by his
side, by reason of his uncommon hairiness,
presented a quaint family resemblance to
the man. Percy sat stiffly erect on his hind
end, holding the string in his mouth, fishing
with unnatural gravity. He was wearing
Bob’s conical felt hat.
The boys gazed for a few moments at the
delightful spectacle, and then clattered down
the rocky ledges. Old Bob held up his pipe
to them in greeting, and every hair ot turn
crinkled into a grin. ,
“Hello ! hello ! hello !” he chortled. Here s
the boys come t’ call on Ole Bob Rogers, best
friend a boy ever had. Been knockin round
now a couple o’ hundred ’n’ ten year, I have,
’n’ ain t never met a better man than Die
(Continued on next page.)


INDIGESTION
Maddened by Agonising Pain-
Many Treatments Prove Useless.
r>
THE following remarkable Indigestion
Cure by Bile Beans proves the won-
derful efficacy of this great family
medicine. Bile Beans are of untold value to
the wage-earner who cannot afford to “lay
up” when in ill-health. While mild in ac ion,
they quickly restore robust health and buoyant
spirits to the weak and depressed without
making “ lying up ” a necessity.
Mr. C. J. Brooks, residing at 352 Abercrombie
Street, Redfern, Sydney, is conversant with the
wonderful curative virtues of Bile Beans, and Writes
the following fetter for the benefit of fellow sufferers.
He says : —“ Indigestion troubled me for a long
time. I also suffered with the liver, which —
together with the Indigestion—accounted for the
terrible pains I experienced, which nearly drove
me mad. Insomnia also added to my misery. I
tried various remedies in the hope of alleviating
my sufferings, but without success. I was advised
to try Bile Beans, and decided to give them a
chance, and see if they would do me any good.
The results I have derived from Bile Beans are
most satisfactory. I underwent a course of the
Beans to the extent of two boxes, when all the pain had disappeared, the Insomnia had
left me, and lam once more myself. This having been my experience with Bile Beans, I
shall certainly recommend them to anyone whom I know requires a genuine Liver medicine.
THE STANDARD FAMILY MEDICINE.
BILE BEANS, Because of their absolute purity and unfailing efficacy, are the Standard
Remedy for Biliousness, headache, indigestion, constipation, piles, nausea, pains in the
chest, flatulency, heartburn, ansemia, offensive Breath, impure Blood, loss of appetite, dis-
turbed sleep, debility, ,
and all disorders of
the liver, stomach and
digestive organs. Bile
Beans are obtainable
from all chemists and
stores at 1/14, and 2/9
for large size (con-
taining three times
thel/U size),or direct
from the Bile Bean
Manfg. Co., 39 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
NA TURE’S
REMEDY.
Jile
eans {
[/• /. FOR
wousness
INTERNATIONAL PICTURES
GENERAL MANAGER: W. J. MORGAN.
COLONIAL THEATRE BUILDINGS, 610 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
A BIG CONCERN WITH A BIG REPUTATION.
Biggest Buyers of Photo Plays in the World.
ADVERTISE YOU SHOW INTERNATIONAL PICTURES, AND
WATCH YOUR RECEIPTS GO UP.
HEAD THIS LETTER, MR. SHOWMAN, AND THINK.
W. -T. Morgan, Esq.,
International Pictures.
Dear Sir,—Your favor enquiring as to whether your service of
factory is to hand. In reply. I would state that not only is it satisfactory. ur
that for the first time in seven months I have had I the Pjeksure Celebration”
receipts double my expenses. “The Indian and Cowboy Frontier CeieorauoUt
Picture is the biggest draw I ever had. I wish you would be so Jh, at> *
me have immediately a full list of your exclusive star Pictures, lfiey seem t
know all about your pictures before they get here. I suppose that s
of the big advertising they get in the Sydney morning papers.
This is onlv a sample of many similar letters we aie in receipt of daily ~y
Exchange includes absolutely the greatest list of star and etions^areAdvertised in the
film-renting concern in Australasia. In addition, our attiactions . better one with
leading Sydney papers. If you do a
International Pictures, but we especially from J. D. Williams’
are not paying to try advertising International Pictures, anect noi
Lyric and Colonial Theatres, and watch the result.
WE HAVE THE GOODS. THE PROOF OF THE PUDDING IS IN THE EATING.
Again we draw your at
necessary to the success of a Pictur
Again we draw your attention
PERFECT PICTURE PROJECTING MACHINE.
Further, it is (tnaranteeil by the manufacturers for one year—part ana
is; rs?ft,s sMk-U'W rp
to now, we have Seen no other firm make this otiei.
the POWERS’ PICTURE MACHINE.
WRITE FOR PARTICULARS, OR CALL, AND SEE IT IN ACTUAL OPERATION.
THE POWERS’ CAMERAGRAPH.
Used at the Colonials, Lyric and Melba Theatres for Twelve Hours Daily. Enough Said.
branches—
SUTTON’S BUILDING, MELBOURNE. FOWLD’S BUILDINGS, WELLINGTON.
COURIER BUILDINGS. BRISBANE. DEWAR HOUSE. 11 HAYMARKET, LONDO. .
The Greater J. D. Williams Amusement Co.
Capital £200,000.
Ltd.
Bob, more sociable, or generouser, or kinder
t’ children. Percival, where’s yer manners V
Speak t’ the boys,”
The dog turned with undiminished grav-
ity, and harked three times.
“He sez lipw’pe yell doin’?” interpreted
Bob. “Come along ’n’ I’ll give yeh lessons
how t’ catch crawfisu he moral suasion.”
The lads clustered about, kneeling on the
spawls. “Does he ever catch any?” asked
Pod, nodding towards Percy with a kind of
respect.
"Why, bless yer ’eart, iv course he does.
Does he look the Kinder dog what ’ud waste
his time pretendin'? Now, watch me. This
is how it’s done. When yeh fool the fish a-
tuggin’, you draw in gently, whistlin’ soft
’u’ low. Don't ferget the whistliu,’ that’s
the art iv it.” Boh Rogers was drawing in
his line, and he commenced to whistle, and
continued whistling seductively until a fat
yabbie was landed and throwp into an old
dish in which about a score were writhing
in holds.
“1 can catch ’em without whistlin’ —some-
times,” said Dan Addis.
“Sometimes maybe, Danny, me lad, hut
the whistlin’s most important. It mesmer-
ises ’em. ’Twas me ole mate Cocker Hobbs
what taught me that. Cocker Hobbs, the
most affectionate pirate what ever sailed
the main. Pirating for 30 year, he was, V
never once hanged a woman to the yardarm
’ceptin’ in self-defence, ’n’ alwuz said his
prayers reg’lar. I told veh ’bout Cocker.
Eight foot high, ’n’ with a beautiful, 18-carat
gold beard, long ez me arm. ’Twas him
saved me life after I was in the mouth iv a
cataleptic alligator seven days ’n’ seven
nights. That was in the Gulf Country,
when me ’n’ Cocker was runnin’ a alligator
hatchery, ’n’ sendin’ droves iv alligators
down t’ the Sydney market every month.
Cocker come back from overlandin’ seven-
undered prime fat crockerdiles, ’n’ discov-
ered me caged behind the teeth iv the big
bull alligator when ufe was near extinck.
There was I, a-breathin’ me last fer arf a
hour, while Cocker raced away fer two
pounds of the best red pepper, which he
flung up the nostrils of the hidyis fish. What
fullered?” Old Bob Rogers looked round
upon the excited and expectant youth of
Waddy. “Why, that bull alligator sneezed
somethin’ awful, V blew me clean head
over tip into Cameron’s ’aystack at Red
Rock. Five miles ez the crow flies. We
measured it with a foot-rule. ’N’ there’s
where the alligator stung me.” Rogers held
up a curiously distorted thumb as a guaran-
tee of good faith, and the horse-liair that
masked his features crinkled into a nest of
grins.
“Whew!” said Dolf. “You was glad yeh
got out, I betcher.”
“Glad, o’ course; but, bless yeh, me lad,
that ain't nothin' to old Bob Rogers, bucca-
neer onst, and” —here he looked about cauti-
ously, pressed a finger on his lip, and whis-
pered—“expert bushranger, late of Morf an’s
gang. See, I trust yeh, boys; but you’ll be
true to Ole Bob Rogers, ’n’ Ole Bob’ll be
true to you. True to death, he is, heart iv
oak, strong ez a horse, ’n’ brave ez a lion,
but lovin ’n’ kind to boys. How's that fer
Ole Bob? God bless ’im! Share his last
crust with yell, he would. Tinder ez a child
alwiz. Now for our fish dinner.” Rogers
took up the yabuies. “Pm a beggar for
fish.”
The boys followed him to his tent, neatly
nitched in the furze scrub. Before the tent
a billy of water was boiling over a burning
log. Bob dropped his yabbies into this,
threw in a handful of salt, and turned on
the boys, beaming happily.
“Now, what I suggest is a collection for
the bread ’n’ butter,” he said. “Bread ’n’
butter ’n’ hot boiled crawfish is a lunch for
a monarch. Who’s on?”
The boys turned out fourpence. Bob
turned it over in his palm with a dubious ex-
pression. “Come t’ think of it,” he said, “I
got plenty bread. S’pose one iv you lads
prigged a bit o’ butter; Ave could spend this
here on ras’berry vinegar. Lovely ras’berr.v
vinegar is with bread ’n’ butter ’n’ hot craw-
fish —nothing lovelier.”
“I can pinch a bit of butter,” said Dolf.
He fled homewards. -
“Good boy!” said Bob gaily. “Percy
brimrs the ras’berry.” Bob brought forth a
second billy, drooped the pennies in, and
the dog took charge, “Now, mind,” said the
little man, shaking an admonitory finger,
“ras’berry—three pen’orth o’ ras’berry vin-
egar. None o’ your tricks.”
Dolf was back before the dog, but Percy
arrived a few minutes later, carrying the
billy gingerly. His master seized the utensil
and lifted the lid. “Well, I’m jiggered,” he
said ; “Ole Bob Rogers is jiggered. Here” —-
he seized Percy by the scruff and pushed his
nose towards the billy. “Call that ras’-
berry? Didn’t I say ras’berry? I appeal
to the company, wasn’t it ras’berry vinegar
I said, straight ’n’ plain?” The boys all
nodded an affirmative. “There, ’ said Bob,
triumphantly, shaking the solemn dog. “It’s
no use you arguin’ ’n’ tryin’ t’ brazin’ it
out. I said ras’berry.” Bob arose with the
billy in his hand, and said with pathetic dis-
gust “The idyit’s bin ’n’ brought beer.” He
made as if to throw the stuff on the
ground. “No,” he said, “I won’t throw it
away. I know what I’ll do with it —I’ll
drink it.” He drank half of it there and
then. “Let this be a lesson to you boys,” he
said, “to bring your dogs up teetotal.”
That was a wonderful dinner. The boys
did not eat much, but Old Bob Rogers never
let the interest flag.
“B’iled crawfish is great eatin’,” he said,
“provided yeh don’t overdo it, ’n’ get craw-
fish poisonin’. I knew a bloke once what
made a hog of hisself eatin’ hot b’iled yab-
bies, ’n’ he got crawfish poisoned, ’n’ went
ereepin’ backwards like a crab fer 5 years,
’n’ nobody ’n’ nothin’ could stop him. His
family had t’ follow him up with his meals.
He was somewhere north o’ Cairns when I
last saw him, ’n’ still goin’.”
Danny Addis remembered a bloke who got
crawfish poisoning, and pinched his wife to
death in her bed.
At this point Bob Rogers arose, looked
carefully about among the furze, as if sus-
pecting* eavesdroppers, resumed his place,
and said in a low, impressive voice: —
“Boys, here’s where Ole Bob confides the
secret'of his life ’n’ the sorrer of his ’eart.
He’s got trust in boys. Boys, he sez, is
faithful ez a dog. The fact is” —lie leaned
forward, and his voice was low —“Ole Bob
Rosers is the rightful heir.” He sat back,
nodding sagely. “The rightful heir he is,
next iv kin, ’n’ lawful -wvner iv the castle
’n’ estates ’n’ all the gold ’n’ precious
stones.”
The boys were not surprised. They real-
ised that Rogers was a man from whom ex-
traordinary things were to be expected. Get
out; y’ain’t!” said Fod Beenby, with ecs-
tatic interest. ■. , .
Bob shifted nearer, bis voice dropped to
little more than a whisper. ’“lts me out
stepmother’s doin’s. A she devil n a sngfie
in the grass she is—a 'orrible woman with
eyebrows like a cat.” With a gesture he
drew the boys’ heads into a circle or awe.
“She don’t believe in llell!” he whispered
with tlie air of a man who has said the
worst. “She's took possession iv Gas tie
Rovers ’n’ all the lands n’ houses. She s
got the documents ’n’ last will ’n’ test ment
hid away in a lioak chest in the haunted
dungeon ’neath Lhe castle moat, n sties
druv ine forth ’ouseless 'u' hi me less, a wan-
derer ’u’ a houtcast, frien’less n alone.
Bob seemed to be on the point of weeping,
but pulled himself together. “Ole Bob
ain’t t’ be so easily beat homsomdever. He s
a sly one, ’n’ fierce, too, when lie’s roused.
It's'the Castle Rogers Restitootian Syndi-
kit what’s goin’ t’ do the trick. Whos the
Castle Rogers Restitootian Syndicate? sex
you. Why, you are. We're all in it, n
this is how. When Ole Bob wants faithful
follerers, ’eroes what’ll stick et nothin’,
bio ires what’s silent ez the grave, he goes fer
toys —specially ginger boys” (here Bob
looked at Addis), “ ’n’ freckled boys” (El-
liott was freckled), “ ’n’ boys with hare lips.’
Beenby had a hare lip.
The boys were too excited to eat, but Bob
had a happy knack of simultaneous masti-
cation and enunciation. The boiled yabbies,
the bread and butter, and the beer were nor
neglected.
“If yer a rigntful heir,” said Hid Young,
“you mus’ be a dook or a liearl.”
“Ssh,” whispered Bob, “walls have ears.
Now, I bet ten thousan’ pounds there ain't a
boy here wouldn’t lay down his life in the
noble ’n’ rightful cause of good Ole Bob
Rogers, libity, equality, ’n’ feternity.”
“I would,” said Dolf fervently. “I bet I
would.”
“Me too.” The boys were unanimous.
Bob nodded approvingly. “ ’Specially agin
a woman like Lady Polly Rogers, what’s a
fiend in human form, ’n’ given to drink.
Drinks like a fish, she does. Often ’n’ often
I’ve heard her say: “I’d far rather have a
glass of porter than a glass of cold water
any day.’ ’N’ she meant it, too. There’s a
she-devil for yeh.” Bob finished the beer.
“But the Castle Rogers Restitootian Syndi-
cate settles her. Three cheers for the right-
ful heir. A boy what has good instincks al-
ways stands up fer the rightful heir wher-
ever met. Him hip, hip” The cheers
were given.
Old Bob Rogers swore- in the members of
the Syndicate. The object of the Syndicate,
it was explained, was to collect funds to
send tne rightful heir to England to claim
Castle Rogers and all its contents. Each
member was expected to introduce a new
member on whose good faith and secrecy
the Syndicate could rely. All members were
to have lucrative billets as faithful retainers
at Castle Rogers when the Syndicate’s object
was gained.
“I propose fer Commander-in-Chief ’n’
honorary treasurer, dear Ole Bob Rogers,”
said the rightful heir; “honest ez the day,
strong ez a horse, ’u’ brave ez a lion. Carried
unanimous!”
Bob next beckoned the boys to follow him
to his tent. lie went cautiously, as if sus-
pecting the observation of an insidious foe.
Before entering, he scanned the horizon
under his palm. “All’s well,” he said.
Within, he pointed to a large block of blue-
stone over which he had built his tent. The
flat, projecting portion of the rock had
served him for a table, apparently. The
boys looked curiously at the rock, Bob’s
manner being mysterious and impressive.
“What is it?” wdiispered Addis.
“Hush,” whispered Bob; “this is a deadly
secret what must never be breathed to mor-
tal man or dog—it’s the sacred treasury of
the Castle Rogers Restitootian Syndicate.
Behold !” He nulled a cork-bung out of the
rock, and exposed a large drill hole. “In
there goes all our money, gold ’n’ precious
stones, w 7 here no ’uman hand can reach ’em.
That’s a fire ’n’ burglar-proof safe what’ll
baffle the hingenuity of any cowardly hemis-
saries what the hauvnty Lady Polly Rogers
might send agin us. The drill hole goes
down inter the bowells iv the earth more or
less, ’n’ with its riches stored in the him-
pregnable rock, the Syndicate can sleep in
peace. Who gives the fund a start, sez you.
Why. Ole Bob Rogers—Ole Bob gives his
last penny.” Bob took a penny from his
pocket, ajid dropped it into the drill hole.
“Ole Bob subscribes the family jools to the
noble cause.” With dramatic ostentation
Bob contributed a bone stud, a brass ring,
and a precious stone of cut glass as large as
a pigeon’s egg, the Castle Rogers diamond,
he said, and worth a matter of ten pounds.
The boys contributed what trifles of money
they had, and those who had no cash under-
tooK to provide something on Sunday, if
only the church nennies dedicated to the
heathen.
So the Syndicate went resolutely to work.
Many pennies and threepenny-bits dribbled
into the rock-bound vault. After school
hours the boys went resolutely to work on
Old Bob’s stone heaps on the Murrumbeet-
road, and cracked more metal in a couple of
hours than the Rightful Heir could break in
two days. The understanding was that these
surplus earnings went into the fund of the
Restitution Syndicate.
But it was on Saturday that the heroic
boys got in their most effective service. Then
tubs and cradles were carried to Pie Creek,
and they toiled all day long puddling,
cradling, and panning off. Bob did no fos-
sicking himself, but he sang roaring sea-
chanties that had a wonderfully-stimulating
effect upon the working partners. He sang
sitting on a tip, whirling a billy of beer.
You could get a little gold in every dish of
dirt along Pie Creek for a mile or more, and
the Saturday’s work was fairly profitable.
The gold, tied in chamois leather, was cere-
moniously dropped into the Syndicate’s
rocky vault, and the boys of Waddy, wet
and weary, but proudly conscious of good
service rendered to a worthy cause, w r ent
home.
A little later, Old Bob Rogers stole to the
back of his tent, and scraped some dirt from
the under edge of the rock, exposing what
looked like a rabbit burrow. Pulling a
string, he drew out of this a small fig box.
The box contained sundry coins and a couple
of weights of void tied in chamois. These
valuables Old Bob pocketed.
The drill hole went right through the
rock. The fig box was the treasury of the
Castle Rogers Restitution Syndicate.
EDWARD DYSON.


O\lSO
/•
§4
in©
For STATIONARY
and MARINE
PURPOSES
No
Carburetter
or
Vaporiser.
fgh
No
Ignition
Apparatus.
makes the fallowing claims upon your attention :
1— It uses cheap lamp oil (such as kerosene), and other residuals.
2 The oil is injected directly into the, cylinder, thus dispensing with unre-
liable and inefficient vaporisers.
3 It is very simple in construction, there being no electric ignition or other
complicated mechanism.
4 Its speeds are such that electric generators and centrifugal pumps mav
be coupled direct.
5 xNo skilled labor is required, the supply of fuel and lubricant bein" all
the attention necessary.
FULL PARTICULARS FROM
The Westinghouse Brake Company of Australasia Ltd.,
14 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Queensland Agents: Holmes & Church, Brisbane.
..
=. t f» t ,J? andard HOT POINT
ELECTRIC IRON. Instantly
connected. Hot Iron and
Cool Handle.
M
move
Tlrt'.r,
strong
large i
w.
ADE in 31b. and 61b. weights ; in sizes 2f"x s|", and 4" x 6A" ;
with a 330, 500 and 575 wattage. Prices 257-, respectively.’
It has a pressed steel top, metal covered plug—easy to re*
n^rror finish—and, over all, our guarantee.
Highly efficient for both light and heavy work; simple, yet
’•. c w an » handy and inexpensive. Can also be supplied in
■ sizes for Laundries and Tailors up to 30ib.
further particulars on application to
G. WATSON & CO., Limited,
CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
OUR QUOTE SAVES MONEY
Because of our systematic methods and large plant, which avoid loss
of time to us and to you, we are enabled to quote bedrock rates
on the smallest or the largest job.
Ring us up now- CITY 1290.
SANDERS, SUTTON & WHITEHEAD LTD.,
Removal, Storage and Carrying Experts,
HEAD OFFICE —43 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
' ■■
fgh
GUARANTEED TWO
fgh
This is cur
4-h.p. Portable
Wood Saw
WE ARE THE ONLY FIRM ADVERTISING
OUR PRICES OPENLY.
Don’t be misled by competitors who offer “lowest prices and long terlns ”
No one can sell an engine of equal quality under DOUBLE OUR PRICES
Get their prices and compare them with ours. We have an immense
sale, and this allows of small profits on our big turnover
fgh
All complete, with Tanks and Pipes, f.o.b.
Sydney, You have no fittings to buy—
Everything is supplied by us.
Small Deposit*
Terms.
Write for Catalogues and full particulars of All Kinds of Oil Engines
Pumping, Chaffcutting, and all other Classes of Machinery.
PARTRIDGE & HODGSON,
Head
Office:
49 YORK STREET, SYDNEY; 339 COLLINS STREET, MELI
T
MHE BEST STORIES written in Australia
-X appear in Ihe Lone Hand each month
Price sixpence.
BOOKS WORTH READING. The new
gmde to the new fiction appears in each
issue of The Lone Hand.
/J#
1
75
ft
%
c
r
BUSINESS MEM and OTHERS in need of FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE
SHOULD CONSULT
CITY FINANCE COMPANY LIMITED,
Palmer’s Chambers, 289 Pitt St., Sydney,
who LEND MONEY on any REASONABLE SECURITY
from 10 PER CENT, per annum. frfd. Mcwii.liam. Manager.
Dinnefords
Magnesia
I
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see that
“ Dinneford & Co.”
is on every bottle
and label.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
MAGNESIA
The Universal Remedy for
Heartburn, Indigestion, £
Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
our Eructations, Bilious Affections.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Club Rum. ,
Dog: Head Stout. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky.
Mamifacturers of Aerated Waters arid Cordials.
The Household Disinfectant
Carbolaeene
Cleanses and Disinfects in One Act.
Instantly Destroys all Germs.
Sold Everywhere Pint Bottles, J/j


ARCHITECTS specify
Mack Partitions
and have a Fire-Proof,
Sound-Proof
and Vermin-Proof
DIVIDING WALL.
Write for our Catalogue, or call and inspect.
MACK LTD.,
Royal Insurance Buildings,
Cor. PITT and SPRING STREETS, SYDNEY,
Melbourne Office: 19 Queen Street.
HOUSE LIGHTING.
Electric Generating: Sets, Steam, Oil
and Petrol; and Storage Batteries,
with all necessary fittings.
Lamps, etc., for complete installations.
Write for particulars to
T. K. Steanes, 39 Pitt Street, Sydney.,,
DICK’S PATENT
BELTING.
THE ORICINAL APQ
GENUINE BALAiA.
TRADt-
917
MARK
The STRONGEST and most EFFICIENT yet produced
Every Belt GUARANTEED. As a sruard against inferioi
imitations, look for the TRADE MARK on every few feet,
Sole
Importers:
James Hardie & Co.,
West Circular Quay, Sydney, and at Melbourne.
I
I
ONE O
THE
fgh
1161
hich can also be
tted to Canvas and
Wire Top Tubes.
Ask the Agents for Particulars and Cost.
DALGETY 8 COMPANY L™
SOLE AGENTS,
Machinery Dept., Miller’s Point, Sydney
fgh
fgh
OIL ENGINES
for Shearing, Chaffcutting, Pumping, Woodcutting
etc.
The Tangye has a Big Reputation for
SIMPLICITY and RELIABILITY.
Hundreds Installed in N.S.W,
and giving the UTMOST
SATISFACTION.
PORTABLE STEAM ENGINES
fitted
with all Up-to-date Mountings, and built
NONE CAN EQUAL
The “Clayton and
Shuttleworth.”
fgh
H. P. GREGORY e CO.,
Engineers and General Machinery Merchants,
74 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
n Co.’s
Planers, Matchers, Molders,
Sing/e and Double Spindle
Shapers, Sanders, Saw Benches, Band Saw Machines,
I Wood Lathes.
Simonds
Circular Saws, Wide and Narrow Band Saw
Blades and Files, Saw Sharpeners, Emery
Wheels, Shafting,
Split Puiteys .
"
"'"v-
N STOCK—Complete Lines of Machines and Supplies for the
Sawmiller, Cabinet Maker . Write for Catalogue.
fghfgh
fgh
DRILL.
Over
Five Hundred
in use on the
Rand.
Successful
Trial In
Australia.
fgh
Rock Drills,
Hammer
Drills,
Coal
BEFORE I
TRIAL.
• / '
International Channelling Machines, Sheffield.
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA:
CO
459 Collins Street, Melbourne,
And at SYDNEY.
NOYES BROS.
(Sydney)
-
109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
45 Adelaide Street, BRISBANE.
(Melbourne) Propy., Ltd.
153-7 William Street, MELBOURNE.
Commercial Bank Chambers, PFRTH
St. George’s Terrace, * 111*
7 Pirie Street, ADELAIDE.
MANNESMAN WELDLESS
STEEL PIPES.
A Perfect Substitute for Cast Iron .
fgh
FIRST£ FOREMOST
MACHINE
With alUhe Latest*
m
w
Sole Agents
Dan gar Gedyez CpSydney
fgh
THE GYRAL ORE SCREEN
Ease of Installation, Small Power Consumption, Great Capacity.
11 ; ' ll • ■■■■■■■■!. I I -i II I mi II !■ ' MM ■■■ I ( ■-
RECENT INSTALLATIONS :
Block 10 Broken Hill, Broken Hill Proprietary,
Blackwater Mines Ltd., N.Z., and other Leading Mines.
fgh
THE “GYRAL” is the only Ore Screen which exposes the
Mineral Particles alternately to Screen and Wash Water,
’ 1 , ■ ■ ■ , y■
Sole Manufacturers—
m
■i
265 GEORGE ST.. SYDNEY;
525 COLLINS ST.. MELBOURNE
>V*
-
■ ■
A*
