

Tie EMBODIMENT OF PERFECTION— DEWAR’S WHISKY
R. G. WATKINS &C, CO.,
107 TSL&toIX, Street, Sydney.
—FOR—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE. _____
a, .Swtfit i*. !^r
A MANN’S
STEAM CART
will reduce your Haulage Bill by Half.
535 Kent Street, Sydney,
486 Collins Street, Melbourne.
•.A. Agent: C. 0. DELAND, Victoria Square, Adelaide.
BCOBART.
a#*
fiadleys Orient [jotel.
PIONEEP
LEATHER BELTING
Guaranteed.
J. C. Ludowici & Son, Ld.
ll7 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
\ v .
Take it back.
1 must have—
HUTTON’S
fine Apple Brand
HAMS ®
BACON.
CHUBB’S DIAGONAL BOLTS
FIT PERFECTLY.
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets is
recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the diges-
tive organs.
HAN S E NS
J
L
11
fgj
*>, INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially-prepared Tablets acts most
beneficially when taken daily after meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prise Medals.
3
279 George Street 3ydney.
a a\»
wy
Money advanced upon all Securities at Reasonable
Rates of Interest.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
THIS COMPANY WAS FORMED TO SUPPRESS USURY.
And at MELBOURNE, BRISBANE and NEWCASTLE.
h
gj
gh
R
D
I
SUPERIOR
EVERY WAY*
r
liiiittiiftmimwimiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiwuiiimt
The best all-round roofing for all classes of buildings
is undoubtedly MALTHOID, which stands to-day in a class
of its own so far as ready roofings are concerned*
MALTHOID ROOFING is absolutely waterproof and
weather resisting to the last degree, while in the matter of
durability it is practically everlasting*
THE PARAFFINE PAINT COMPANY, CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLAGE, SYDNEY.
D. S. Evans, Australasian Manager.
KUPPER LAGER*
THORNE’S
I
liii
AGE AND PURITY
GUARANTEED
HELIDON SPA WATER
Three reasons why HELIDON SPA triumphs as a Perfect Table Water: \
Ist—Rapid absorption. 2nd—Rapid circulation. 3rd—Rapid elimination. J
DEWHORST 8 HALLORAN, LtJ.,
Agents.
The Bulletin
T01.32.— N0. 1655.]
[Thursday, November 2, 1911.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


AN AUSTRALIAN EDITION.
TOASTS AND MAXIMS. 1/3, posted 14/.
SPARKLING, WITTY AND SMART.
Tliia is certainly one of the most humorous books we have had the good fortune to handle •
contains Ancient and Modern Maxims, Words from the Wise, Sayings, Truisms Proverbs’
Toasts and Sentiments, with illustrations by W. L. Wyllie, the late Phil May, Frank
Reynolds, Edmund Dulac, Lawson, Wood and others.
ROBERTSON’S, Booksellers 238 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
HUDSON’S
“EUMENTHOL JUJUBES.”
The Great Antiseptic and Prophylactic,
contains no cocaine or other poisonous
drug.
For COUGHS, COLDS, SORE THROATS,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA, and the
PREVENTION OF CONSUMPTION.
The Lancet Laboratory report is conclusive evidence
of the vaiue of “ Eumenthol Jujubes as an Antiseptic.”
The Lancet says :—“ Proved to be as effective
bactericidaiiy as is creosote.”
vB
a
A. The Larynx or
Or<ran of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
C. The Bronchial
Tubes of a dis-
sected Lung.
D. A Lobe of one
of the Lungs.
Sold by all Chemists, po3t free on receipt of 1/6 stamps.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL COMPANY, LTD., 19 York Street, SYDNtY.
the Australian States, New Zealand, and at 3'_o Recent Street, London.
A
g-encies in
all
THE RED PAGE
Gilbert Murray
It can be said safely that no writer of
the present day has rendered so great a ser-
vice to .the classics as Professor Gilbert Mur-
ray. There have been a number of other
competent translators of ancient literature,
and doubtless there have been more pro-
found scholars at work upon some of the
texts. But Gilbert Murray has not only
given us a masterly history of “Ancient
Greek Literature,” which awakens real in-
terest in the long-dead authors who are
names and nothing more to most people; he
has also translated Euripides, the most
"modern” of the Greek poets, in such a way
that the general reader can get pretty well
the full value of the dramas without the
trouble of learning Greek.
In their new form, some of the plays of
Euripides have been acted in London with
as much success as the works of the living
“intellectual” dramatists. As they deal with
problems akin to those of our own tune, and
as women are the most active factors in the
plots, the author has been dubbed “the
Greek Ibsen” and “the Attic Shaw.”
Perhaps no better brief tribute to Mur-
ray’s work could be cited than that of Ber-
nard Shaw, in the preface to Major Bar-
bara :
The Euripidean verses in the second act
of Major Barbara are not by me, or even
directly by Euripides. They are by Prof.
Gilbert Murray, whose English version of
The Bacchw came into our dramatic litera-
ture with all the impulsive power of an
original work before Major Barbara was
begun. The play, indeed, stands indebted
to him in more ways than one.
The verses quoted in Shaw’s play are from
one of the lyrical passages which Murray
has rendered most successfully :—-
Will they ever come to me, ever again,
The long, long dances.
On through the dark till the dim stars wane?
Shall I feel the dew on my throat, and the
stream
Of wind in my hair? Shall our white feet
gleam
In the dim expanses?
Oh, feet of a fawn to the greenwood fled,
Alone in the grass and the loveliness;
Leap of the hunted, no more in dread,
Beyond the snares and the deadly press:
Yet a voice still in the distance sounds,
A voice and a fear and a haste of hounds;
O wildly laboring, fiercely fleet,
Onward yet by river and glen. ..
Is it joy or terror, ye storm-swift feet?.. .
To the dear lone lands untroubled of
men,
Where no voice sounds, and amid the shad-
owy green,
The little things of the woodland live un-
seen.
What else is Wisdom? What of man’s en-
deavor
Or God’s high grace, so lovely and so
great ?
To stand from fear set free, to breathe
and wait;
To hold a hand uplifted over Hate ;
And shall not loveliness be loved for ever?
Happy he, on the weary sea
Who hath fled the tempest and won the
haven.
Happy whoso hath risen, free.
Above his striving. For strangely graven
Is the orb of life, that one and another
In gold and power may outpass his
brother.
And men in their millions float and flow
And seethe with a million hopes as leaven;
And they win their Will, or they miss
their Will,
And the hopes are dead or are pined for
still;
But whoe’er can know,
As the long days go,
That To Live is happy, hath found his
Heaven!
* * * *
The literal translations of Greek tragedy
published by Bohn, when sampled by the
present writer, tasted like chips, and were
ejected in dismay. To compare them with
the rhymed versions, which contain pas-
sages like the above, is to recognise the ex-
tent of Gilbert Murray’s service as an in-
terpreter. The lyrical choruses, which are
the heart of Greek drama, can only be effec-
tively conveyed into another language by a
poet, and Euripides was dead to the Greek-
less English until this Australian-born poet
arose at Oxford. It may be that he has
not always been faithful to the letter; it is
much more important that he has captured
the spirit of the original, and given it a
new lease of life.
Murray’s prose is attractive by its free-
dom from pedantic stiffness, and its steady
glow of enthusiasm for his subject. The
introductory essay in the volume which con-
tains The Bacchw carries the reader across
the centuries into the mental atmosphere of
the dramatist reconstructed by Murray, after
a patient study of the plays and hints scat-
tered elsewhere. The Rise of the Greek
Epic, which is a landmark in Homeric
criticism, gives the intelligent reader a fas-
cinating account of the manners and cus-
toms of those far-off pagans whose litera-
ture is still an influence in our life.
Scholarship 'has strengthened the demo-
cratic instincts which Murray inherited, as
shown particularly in an essay on "The Ex-
ploitation of Inferior Races in Ancient and
Modern Times.” His high position in the
world of letters has not affected his modesty,
and the above remarks seemed necessary. as
an introduction to his own story, which
follows: —
* * * *
I will try to write some account of my
life for The Bulletin, though I fear that,
like most other men of letters. I am not a
very interesting subject for biography. My
father was Sir Terence Aubrey Murray, at
one time Speaker and afterwards President
of the Upper House of N.S.W. I was born
in Sydney, on the North Shore, in 1866, and
went to school at Mr. Southey’s, first at
Moss Yale and then at Mittagong. Though
I left Southey’s at the age of 11, I have a
very vivid memory of it; the dusty road
from the station, the big gums, the beautiful
little stream with rocky pools where we
bathed, and a great many thrilling cricket-
matches. Also, I fear, several fights; for it
was a rough place, and, though the masters
were kind, the cruelty of the boys to one
another is a thing which must have haunted
the dreams of many of us long after the
actual suffering and rage had passed. I re-
member one tiling with especial gratitude.
When I first went to school, my mother told
me that; if ever I was really and thoroughly
miserable, I might run away, and gave me a
half-sovereign, to be kept for the special pur-
pose of paying my train-fare to Sydney if
need should come. It never did come; but
the possession of that half-sovereign, and the
sense that escape was always open to me
as a great comfort in bad times.
PROF. GILBERT MURRAY.
At the age of 11, I went with my mother
to England. My brother Hubert—now
Judge Murray, the Administrator of Papua,
was left for a year at the Sydney Grammar
School, of which he was head boy. For a
year or two I stayed at home, reading a
good deal, and; —what was perhaps a little
unusual—especially puzzling out my Greek
in an ineffective way. Then I entered at
Merchant Taylors’ School, a very old London
foundation, which at that time had a great
reputation for winning classical and Hebrew
scholarships at Oxford and Cambridge, and
eventually became head of the school, and
won the first closed scholarship to St. John’s
College, Oxford. At that time, curiously
enough, my interests were chiefly in philoso-
phy and In radical politics. I was rather an
opponent of classical education, and used to
make speeches against all kinds of “mere
literature.” I had the profoundest rever-
ence for Science, of which I knew nothing.
I was a little ashamed of my love of poetry,
English and Greek, though this was to be
the real taste of my life.
At Oxford I found my brother Hubert the
senior scholar of his year at Magdalen. Like
me, he got two First Classes, but, unlike me,
he was a great athlete and a “Blue” —that
is, one chosen to compete against Cam-
bridge. I was respectable at cricket and
football, but no more. During my Oxford
time Mr. Gladstone introduced his first
Home Rule Bill (1886), and, as beseemed
my father’s son, I at once helped to found a
Home Rule League at Oxford, and did a
good deal of speaking. I also spoke on Temper-
ance. However, my chief taste was obviously
for classical literature; and as soon as I had
taken my degree, I won a Fellowship at
New College, the college which most of all
I for (I may mention that it is
called “New” only because it was so in the
year lS^).
I had uot been teaching at New College a
year when Sir Richard Jebb, probably the
chief Greek scholar of that generation in
England, left his chair in Glasgow to become
Regius Professor of Greek in Cambridge. I
was only 23, but was advised to stand for
the Glasgow Chair; and was, to my great
surprise, elected. Then began a period of
great responsibility and very interesting,
though excessive, work. I had about 400
students to teach, of the most varying stan-
dards of attainment. What made the work
so hard was that we were in a period of
transition. The old Scotch Professor used
simply to deliver his lectures each day, and
then go home, doing almost nO written work
and seeing very little of the students per-
sonally. The newer teachers, many of them
coming from Oxford, where the tutor is ex-
pected to take infinite pains with each
separate pupil, tried to see the students in-
dividually, and gave them essays and exer-
cises to write. The result was that we used
all to get ill. After a few years I had to
take a term off, in which I returned to Aus-
tralia for a short visit, and enjoyed more
than I can say the sight of the old places
and the smell of the gums and wattles.
At the end of 10 years I broke down, and
retired to live in the country.
I ought to mention that while still an
undergraduate I wrote a novel. It was a
success rather than otherwise, but I do not
think I much want anybody to read it now,
so I will not mention its name. At Glas-
gow, in the vacations, I managed to write
my History of Greek Literature. It was
much attacked, but lias, I think, weathered
its storms. I wrote very much under the in-
fluence of a German scholar, Ulrie von Wil-
amowitz-Moellendorff, who was then a
youngish Professor at Gottingen, and the pre-
face proclaimed emphatically my admiration
of his work. Since then, Wilamowitz has
been made Professor at Berlin, and is now
generally recognised as the leading Greek
scholar in the world.
I had also, while at Glasgow, written two
plays--both, unfortunately, tragedies. For,
though from time to time, I try hard to
write a comedy, as soon as 1 get interested
in it, it turns tragic. After retiring, I saw
to the acting and publishing of these —the
best one, .Gariyon Sahib, a dead failure;
the other, Andromache , rather a success.
Then for six years I lived quietly in the
country, writing and working. I began au
edition of the Greek text of Euripides, which
has taken some 10 years to complete. I
wrote a good deal in The Speaker (now The
’Nation), a philosophic-radical weekly which
strongly opposed the policy of the Smith
African War ; and I attempted to translate
Euripides in the way in which I thought he
ought to be translated. These translations
- —the Hippolytus, Bacchee, Trojan Women,
Electra, Medea, Iphigenia in Tauris —were
successful beyond my hopes, and proved to
be actable. In conjunction with Mr. Gran-
ville Barker, then beginning his bVilliant
career at the Court Theatre, I gradually
found out a more or less adequate way of
producing them, so as to achieve something
like the effect that Euripides may have in-
tended ; and since that time—the Hippohjius
was acted in 1902—1 may say that there
has not often been a period of three months
without one of these plays of Euripides
being somewhere in the bill of work of some
theatre or some company of amateurs in
England or America. The trouble is that,
without some guidance from persons who
have specially studied Euripides, producers
are apt to be bewildered by the classical
form. The florid style of acting which
passes for “Shakespearian” does not suit the
sincere simplicity of the Greek.
In 19CS the Regius Professorship of Greek
in the University of Oxford became vacant
and I was appointed. The work of this
great chair now occupies nearly all of my
time, though I still manage to do some trans-
lations —such as Sophocles’ Oedipus, and a
delightful Egyptian romance of unknown
authorship, called The Story of Nefrekepta.
I have also written on The Rise of the
Greek Epic, a study of earl/ Greek life and
poetry, of which I have just this summer
published a second edition.
I have been to lecture at American Uni-
versities, and have once had an invitation
from Sydney. It tempted me greatly, but
the length of the voyage made it almost im-
possible for me to accept. The Professor
here has no long stretches of leisure.
I should add that I married, in 1889,
Mary, the eldest daughter of the Earl of Car-
lisle, and have three sons and two daughters,
the eldest of whom, Rosalind, has followed
my bad example in publishing novels before
the age of wisdom. 140w T ever, her novels
are very much better than mine was.
There is nothing in the world I like so
much as studying and explaining Greek
poetry. One of my chief regrets is that I
never seem to get any Australian pupils.
The Rhodes scholars from Australia do ex-
cellent work in law and other subjects, but
I am still waiting for a first-rate Greek
scholar.
GILBERT MURRAY.
A little book of verses, styled Under a
Fool's Cap, was printed in London in 1884,
and seems to have escaped attention, until
one Norman Roe spread himself in Cornhill
Magazine of August, 1909, concerning its
charm. The author is Daniel Ilenry
Holmes, an American, who spent most
of his tiihe in Europe, and is now
dead. That benevolent pirate of Maine,
U.S.A., Thomas Mosher, lias reprinted the
verses, with Roe's essay, in the
dainty format known to bookiovers. The
verses are playful or ironic expansions of
old nursery tags, mostly in the same metre
as Mother Goose, and some of them are
worth while. Two are herewith passed
on:—
MARGERY DA W.
See-saw! Margery Daw!
Sold er bed to lie uyou straw;
Was she not a dirty slut
To sell her bed and lice in dirt?
And yet, perchance, were the circumstance
But known of Margery’s grim romance,
As sacred a veil might cover her then
As the pardon which fell on the Magdalen.
It’s a story told so often, so old,
►So drearily common, so wearily cold:
A man's adventure —a poor girl’s fall—
And. a sinless scapegoat born—that's all.
She was simple and young, and the song
was sung
With so sweet a voice, in so strange a
tongue,
Tuat she follow’d blindly the Devil-song
Till the ground gave way, and she lay head-
long.
And then; not a word, not a plea for her
heard,
Not a hand held out to the one that err’d,
Her Christian sisters foremost to condemn—
God pity the woman who falls before them!
They closed the door for evermore
On the contrite heart with repented sore,
And she stood alone, in the outer night,
To feed her baby as best she might.
So she sold her bed for its daily bread,
The gown off her back, the shawl off her
head,
Till her all lay piled on the pawner’s shelf,
Then she clench’d her teeth and sold herself.
And so it came that Margery’s name
Fell into a burden of Sorrow and Shame,
And Margery’s face grew familiar in
The market-place where they trade in sin.
What use to dwell on this premature hell?
Suffice it to say the child did well,
Till one night that Margery prowled the
town,
Sickness, was stalking, and struck her down.
Her beauty pass’d, and she stood aghast
In the presence of want, and stripped, at the
last,
Of all she had to be pawned or sold,
To keep her darling from hunger and cold.
So the baby pined, till Margery, blind
With hunger of fever, in body and mind,
At dusk, when Death seem’d close at hand,
Snatch’d a loaf of bread from a baker’s
stand.
Some Samaritan saw Margery Daw,
And lock’d her in gaol to lie upon straw:
Not a sparrow falls, they say—Oh, well!
God was not looking when Margery fell.
With irons girt, in her felon’s shirt,
Poor Margery lies in sorrow and dirt,
A gaunt, sullen woman, untimely grey,
With the look of a wild beast brought to
bay.
See-saw ! Margery Daw !
What a wise and bountiful thing, the Law!
It makes all smooth —dor she’s out of her
head,
And her brat is provided for. It’s dead.
HUMPTY DUMPTY.
Burn’d and bare, the sands are spread;
Fire implacable beats overhead,
Heavens like Hell, and beneath, there lies
An august head, with blind, dreaming eyes.
Once on a time, was lifted higher
No kinglier head, from Carthage to Tyre,
No loftier stature the sun look’d on,
Not even Rhodes or Singing Memnon.
Aeons sat on his huge, calm brows,
As sparrows perch’d on the pitch of a house,
Tempests crouch’d at his foot, abashd,
Like fawning hounds by the master lash’d.
Far to the edge of the desert’s girth
Stretch’d the shadow of him on the earth,
Cowering beneath like a thing afraid:
So was his fame on the vast world laid.
Nations came from far-away lands.
Over the deep and the waste of sands,
Kissing the footstool his huge feet trod,
To hail him High, Everlasting God.
Now he lies prone—he is fallen! Great
Pan,
God of Gods, very Lord of Man,
A shapeless litter of shatter'd rock
For newts and lizards to spit at and mock.
None now come to hail his fame,
His greatness is gone, forgotten his name.
Motionless, changeless, unbounded, untrod,
The desert broods o’er the broken God.
While on so much of its base that stands,
Worn by the tides of men’s lips, and the
sands,
This is inscribed in a Cockney’s scrawl,
Last and bloodiest gibe of all:
Humpty-Dumpty sat on a Wall.
♦
Lawrence Campbell is publishing a series
of musical monologues at 2s. net, which
includes Paterson’s “A Bunch of Roses,”
Ogilvie’s “A Broken Web,” and Agnes
Storrie’s “Twenty Gallons of Sleep.'
The pianoforte accompaniments are by Mrs.
Iv. Shaw Meyer, of Sydney. Other Austra-
lian verses will be published in the series,
which ought to be a big success.


ib.
V
1
1
'csncs IgS’jM%
r
i'
g>Ssi»3S
St
WSi
A
fl’lMU
X:.
• *
ft ft
i r»r
1 P! f
ffiti
I ■II
M
■1: /.
o*r
1730
25
n
mar.
■Mi
I
.
. ' '" v>;
556
Attractive^
Blcmses
j? at"
(tAnTHONYcHoRDEKNS
529
a. 123
kifl
r
; Smart Summer Blouses
No. 1730—Ivory Japanese Silk Blouse, yoke of Valenciennes Insertion and Silk
Embroidery, finished tucks .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 19/6
No. 1603—Ivory Japanese Silk Blouse, Embroidered Silk Front, finished
Valenciennes Insertion .. .. .. .. .. ... .. .. .. 11/9
No. 257—Ivory Japanese Silk Blouse, Square neck, trimmed Applique and
Valenciennes Insertion, fasten at back, three-quarter sleeves .. .. 15/9
No. 529—Cream Japanese Silk Blouse, trimmed Valenciennes Insertion, square
neck, three-quarter sleeves, fasten at back 10/6
No. 596—-White Net Blouse, Maltese Insertion Yoke, Lace down centre front,
finished with pipings of Colored Silk : Sky and Rose .. .. .. .. 19/11
No. Bl23—Cream Japanese Silk Blouse, Silk Embroidered front; finished
Malines Insertion, long sleeves
Ready-to-Wear Costumes
No. 322—-Blouse and Skirt Costume, Striped Cambric, shaped Yoke finished
piping, sets of tucks and Insertion, detachable dressed Collar, Skirt piped
to match, Fawn Stripes 12/6, Hat 25/-
No. 37/61 —Blouse and Skirt Costume, Fine White Lawn, trimmed fine Muslin
and Valenciennes Insertion .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 14/6
Other new styles in Muslin Blouse and Skirt Costumes, 13/6, 14/6, 19/6, Hat 21/-
No. 364—Coat and Skirt Costume, White Pique, trimmed Muslin Insertion 27/6
Hat 21/-
No. 310 —Blouse and Skirt Costume, of Striped Cambric, cut with shaped
\ Yoke and Panel effect, Skirt trimmed Strappings, detachable dressed
Collar, Fawn Stripes 11/6, Hat 27/6 (
/ 1
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
for the Summer Fashions.
THE skilfully selected collection of Fashion’s
choicest creations shown in the green room at
the Palace Emporium presents attractions that are
not to be found at any other store. There is a distinctive
smartness in the dainty Summer Costumes, Blouses and
perfectly-fitting Skirts, and exclusiveness is provided for
by the large number of imported Model Gowns. A feature
is the big variety of Smart Motor and Driving Coats.
The new Millinery is particularly attractive, inasmuch as,
while the extremes of the season are represented, there
is a pleasing array of beautiful and moderate examples of
the Season’s Millinery Modes. Send for our Summer
Fashion Book, posted free on request; it is an authori-
tative guide to all that is new.
oefecfsfyfej
A
-'Ji
E
2M
m
m
m
364
22
or
61
fO
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace E,mporitim,
Bricßfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
STEVENS FIREARMS
THE WORLD’S STANDARD.
STEVENS FIGHTING LINE
Our
POPULAR PRICED RIFLES
are notable for their ACCU-
RACY, RELIABILITY and
LASTING QUALITIES.
Our Demi-Bloc and Repeating Shotguns are "Superb for Trap and Field/'
All Progressive
Dealers handle
STEVENS.
Insist on our make.
Write for Catalogue to
ARTHUR H. HILL, Australian Represent-
ative for Stevens Arms and Tool Co.,
Box 86, G.P.O Adelaide, S. Australia.
Send for latest Fire-
arm, Telescope and
Stevens-Pope Cata-
logues. [7
Underwear
Elade in
England
TRAOf
MARK
The “ BIRD MARK” on your Underwear
is a guarantee that the garments are made from
the finest Australian Lambswool and Cotton,
and in some qualities Silk is added.
The garments also have patented improve-
ments and fit the figure perfectly.
The most perfect underwear for hot weather
is the “BIRD MARK” Merino and Silk
Underwear, it will stand hard wear yet light in
weight.
Sold by all Drapers and Outfitters.
Wholesale only
I. & R. MORLEY and (IEO. BRETTLE & CO.,
London, E.C
Ask for THE 4 BIRD MARK * MERINO UNDERWEAR
COUGHS
SANACINE prevents the wasting and tearing of the Tissues that occurs in violent colds, clears
away the congested phlegm, and speedily allays irritation and inflammation of the respiratory
organs, and strengthens the linings of the throat and nose. Coughs, Colds, Influenza,
Lung Weakness, Head and Chest Colds, Throat Weakness and more virulent forms of colds
immediately yield to the vigorous curative action of Sanacine. A few doses taken in the early
stages diminish the severity of an attack, and a rapid cure is assured.
jkjh
Sanacine benefits
Russian Royal Family
A Court Official writes : “ Sanacine was introduced
to the Russian Imperial Family, and they have found
great benefit from using it.”
k
SANACINE
NATURE’S LUNG HEALER
An Invaluable Remedy for
COUGHS
COLDS
ASTHMA
BRONCHITIS
CATARRH
INFLUENZA
CONGESTION
HOARSENESS
HUSKINESS
SORE THROAT
WHOOPING COUGH
CHEST WEAKNESS
and all Disorders of the Lungs, Chest, and Throat.
Prices in Gt. Britain: Liquid and Tablets 1/1 5 and 2/9. Sold by all Chemists, Stores, &c., in Australia.
Proprietors r- ASHTON & PARSONS. LIMITED, LONDON. E.C., ENGLAND.
THE
U.
gUNYI P‘
¥/ Forest Devil.
This One Caps Them All!
“ I have owned one of the ‘ Bunyip ’ Forest Devils
since 1909, and have used it in all classes of green stumps
and trees, large and small, and it has given every satis-
faction. I pulled two large trees in the township of
Marong, and plenty of the watchers stated that the
machine would not shift them. They were both pulled in
a very short time and with little trouble. I have pulled
large trees, one being 16ft. Bin. round the girth. The
machine, while in my use, never cost me one penny, and
is still in perfect order. I have used lots of other
machines, but this one caps them all.”
(Signed) E. J. OSBORN, Marong, via Bendigo.
JOHN COOPER & SONS,
287-9 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne
When writing, please mention this paper. (Op. St. Francis’ Church).
Will Andrade ~ BOOKS.
How to Woo
and Win.
THE ART AND
ETIQUETTE OF
Love and Courtship
The Best Lover’s Guide
Ever Published.
1/-, Post Free 1/2.
Art of Boxing and Self-Defence, 1/2 ; Gold Hunter’s Adventures in Aus-
tralia, 1/9; Complete Book of Love Letters, 1/; How to Woo and Win, 1/1;
Astrology Made Easy, 1/1; Money-Making Secrets, 1/1 ; Minstrel Show, 1/1;
Eight Popular Farces, 1/1; Sixteen Amusing Farces, 1/1 ; Thirteen One-Act
Farces, 1/1; Twenty Humorous Dialogues, 1/1; Home Amusements, 1/1;
“ How Old Mose Counted the Eggs ” and 116 Other Humorous Recitations,
1/1 ; Famous Dramatic Recitations, 1/1 ; “How Sockery Set a Hen " and
other Comic Recitations, 1/1 ; Famous Dialect Recitations, 1/1; 1401 Conun-
drums and Riddles, 1/1; Art of Ventriloquism, 1/1; Hypnotism, Mesmerism
and Cl irvoyance, 1/1 ; Popular Horse and Cattle Doctor, 1/1 ; How to Teach
Animal Tricks, 1/1; What Young People Should Know, Confidential Talks,
1/1; Dr. Faulkner’s Original Book of Nature, the only genuine and complete
edition, 3/6, posted 3/9 ; New Tricks with Cards, 1/ ; House Painting, Paper-
hanging, Whitewashing, etc., 1/2; 3000 Priceless Secrets, 1/8; Irish Jokes
and Witty Sayings, 9d.; Complete Letter Writer for Ladies and Gentlemen,
1'; Dancing Without an Instructor, 1/; Lover’s Guide to Courtship and
Marriage, 1/; Bernard Macfadden’s Physical Training, 2/9; Macfadden’s
Building of Vital Power, 5/4 ; Macfadden s Superb Virility of Manhood, 5/4;
Macfadden’s Sweethearts for Lives, 5/4 ; Australian Billiard Champion Gray’s
Book on Billiards, 1/5 ; Wrestling Instructor,
with 60 Photographic Illustrations, 1/9; Bag
Punching, lOd. ; All Steele Rudd’s Aus-
tralian Books, 1/1; Road Map of Victoria,
1/1.
SOTAND ANY BOOK
YOU WANT.
Mention The Bulletin.
Above prices include postage to any address. Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne
m
.
CAPT. H. E. U. BURKE.
An African
Letter to ...
CLEMENTS TONIC
Testimony received from Capt. H. E. U. BURKE, late
3rd King’s African Rifles, British E. Africa, and
Assistant Master, Sydney Grammar School, College
Street, Sydney. States his opinion of what Clements
Tonic can do in cases of Fever, Wasting Illness, Loss
of Sleep or Appetite, Indigestion, or Convalescence
after severe illness.
“ The Cottage,” 250 Ocean Street,
Paddington, 17/l/Tl.
CLEMENTS TONIC LTD.
“ I have benefited much by your medicine, principady in Africa
where it was first given to me by an Australian, after a severe attack of
malarial fever. I was taken to Nairobi, the centre of Govt, in British
E. Africa, in a state of collapse. The greatest care had to be taken
during mv convalescence.
“My Australian friend gave me three bottles. It improved my
appetite, creating desire for food, the beginning of a general restoration
to health, transforming a condition of extreme debility to one of
splendid strength.
“ I was so impressed with the medicine that I recommended it to
fny brother officers. I have cause to be very grateful to this excellent
medicine, and, as I am now in Sydney, I am only fulfilling a duty in
testifying to its worth. You may use this letter as you like.'’
(Signed) H. E. U. BURKE (Capt.).
This testimony is of a order, and proves the healto-oreative
possesses. Persons restored to health of such serious aihnents.. ... 2 . or Poor
Memory, Melancholia, Nerve-breakdown, Constipation, Broken R.j.-.
Blood, Biliousness and Sick Headache, write only for the public benefit.
All Stores and Chemists sell CLEMENTS TONIC.


J
*
A Family
Medicine
Without
Alcohol
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla is a tonic
and alterative, free from alcohol.
What is a “tonic”? A medicine
that imparts strength or tone; a
medicine that builds up, gives
vigor and power. What is an
“alterative” ? A medicine that
alters or changes unhealthy ac-
tion to healthy action. Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla does all this with-
out stimulation. Ask your doc-
tor if a family medicine, like
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, is not vastly
better without alcohol than
with it.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
FOR
RHEUMATISM
COIXRYST
/Ji m am iiiiiiiiiiii ii
Packets, 3d., 6d. and Is.
[2a
YOUR EYES !
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
EYE
OINTMENT.
INSTANT
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE IT!
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-. Or by post from
Proprietors, 443 Bourke Bt., Melbourne.
Practical Proof.
There never were so
many people using
Cerebos Salt as there are
to-day, which shows that
its purity, goodness and
daintiness are every day
becoming more and more
appreciated.
Cerebos
Salt
Agents—Harrison & Attwood, Sydney.
PAT LNTS
Collison&Co.
PATENTS and TRADE MARKS
obtained in all countries.
483 Collins St., MELBOURNE.
Eagle Chambers, ADELAIDE
Write us tor Invkntors’ Guidk. Establish rt> 187-
MILNERS’ SAFES
have the Largest Sale in the World.
LI
SYDNEY : John Keep & Sons, Ltd., Clarence St.
MELBOURNE : Bri-coe & Co., Ltd., Lit. Collins St.
BRISBANE : Webster & Co., Ltd., Mary St.
PERTH : McLean Bros. & Rigg.
Ans. Rep.—T. Nicholls, c/o Sydney Agents.
jk
Grandmother Used
BONNINGTONS !
For over 45 years Bonnington’s Irish Moss
has been the standard cough remedy. Grand-
mother used it, your mother used it, and
you probably use it yourself and give it to
your children.
BONNINCTON’S IRISH MOSS.
There is no medicine like it for breaking up coughs and colds, healing inflam-
mation in the bronchial tubes and preventing serious lung troubles.
REFUSE. SUBSTITUTES —get what you ask for, and ask for
Bonnington’s Irish Moss—there is no remedy “just as good.” [3
Richardson Cushion Frame, Anti-Jar Rail
Bearing Roller Skates.
Used exclusively in all of the largest and most successful links in America,
and by all the Champions of the World, fast and fancy. RICHARDSON
SKATES have held all World’s Records for 24 years. Write for Catalogue.
Tells how to open and operate Roller Rinks.
Richardson Ball-Bearing 1 Skate Co., 311 Michigan Street, Chicago, U.S.A.
RICHARDSON
CHICAGO
1402]
P
TT
A Well-Rounded Bosom
Is the Pride and Joy of All Women.
No woman need remain flat and undeveloped, tliin. and
miserable. Your weight can be increased, and bust developed
to normal. It is done for hundreds of others, and can be as
readily done for you. If your bust lacks development and
firmness, and your arms, neck and shoulders are thin and
scrawny, even though your face is pretty, you invariably take
second place to your more fully-developed, full-bosomed asso-
ciates in your own social set. It will always be so unless you
correct the imperfections in your figure. Send a 2d. Stamp
for a Tree Sample of Dr. Falliere’s Flesh-Food, and our free
book which tells how. Flesh-Food is harmless to use, and the
treatment rapidly and permanently develops a poor figure to
normal. Thousands endorse it. Full particulars free.
J'ALLIEBE FLESH-FOOD CO., 1103 Ash Street, Sydney (rear Equitable Life Building)
FREE
j
£lOOO IN JEWELLERY!
A PRIZE FOR EVERY CORRECT ANSWER.
This Picture Puzzle represents the Emperor
of the Zoowongs—find the Empress, mark
with a cross and return to us, and for every
correct answer we will send absolutely free a
pretty pair of Gold-cased Cuff Einks, suitable
for ladies or gentlemen. ... A solid gold Watch costs
from j£s to £ 10; don’t Ithrow your money away if you
want a watch that will equal for time any gold watch
made. Solve this puzzle correctly and we will send along
with your Cuff I,inks 20 packages of Orangine Nectar Cor-
dial to sell at 6d. each (by dissolving the contents of a 6d.
package in water you obtain one gallon of the most de-
lightful and healthful of summer beverages). When sold,
return the money received, and we will at once send you.
Free a substantial Watch and a beautiful, solid Gold-cased
Chain. Solve the puzzle and we send the prize. Write at
1 once, it costs nothing to try. Satisfaction guaranteed.
) Home Specialty Co., 203 Ash Street, Sydney.
I CAN YOU
SO LV E THIS
PUZZLE ?
a®
a,
S 3
MAtT
Especially
valuable in hot
climates.
IDEAL FOOD FOR
CHILDREN FROM BIRTH.
Only the choicest Malted Barley,
Wheat and Pure Milk used in the
manufacture, and so combined as
to form a perfectly nutritious
food suitable to all ages.
Beware of Infants’ Food containing Starch.
Horlick’s Malted Milk is passed by the Board of
Health for Australia, as Free from Starch.
Requires No Cooking. No added Milk.
Prepared instantly by stirring in water.
Wholesome. Invigorating. Sustaining.
Recommended by the Medical Profession.
Sold by all Chemists and Stores.
Samples:—B2, PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Horlick’s Malted Milk Co., Slough. Bucks., England.
Tobacco
ĵk
Kills!
MOST MEN would
cure themselves of
the Tobacco Habit if
they knew they could
do so easily and also
without causing
themselves discom-
fort. ... It takes but
ten minutes for To-
bacco to change the
beats of the heart.
To keep it up is to
tempt death by heart
disease, nervous col-
lapse, tobacco cancer
and stomach, liver or
kidney disease.
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a harm-
less, vegetable remedy that will make the
user of tobacco in any form absolutely aban-
don the habit for good. It not destroys the
craving, the desire, the appetite for tobacco,
but restores to health the entire nervous sys-
tem, and aids Nature in entirely eliminating
from the system the Nicotine Poison of
Tobacco.
FREE SAMPLE.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you, under
sealed cover, a Free Sample, also our Book-
let, “ The Tobacco Habit and its Consequen-
ces.” Write for particulars and Book to-day.
H. SINCLAIR CD. CO..
DEPT. G VICTORIA ARCADE. SYDNEY
56 tons 7cwt.
The weight of the quarter-
million Wayback Books
sold to date.
ARE YOU
RUPTURED
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not
only COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but ono
THAT WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS. Then write us, and we will
send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE
Never mind if you have tried everything
else. This is something ENTIRELY NEW;
it is, in fact. THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing
leather understraps. The pad is ntiade of
soft rubber, which exerts a GENTLE yet
FIRM PRESSURE on the CORRECT SPOT.
To show what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within
thr- reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT, and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men. women & children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
343 Collin*-st... Melbourne, Vic.
CARBIDE
For First-Class
Results use
Best
P?““PERNIX” CARBIDE.
Addresses of Merchants distributing it can be obtained
from AUGUST BLUMENTHAL, LIMITED, 62
Pitt Street, Sydney, Sole Agents fof Australia.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Southerly Change.
The wild and squally weather which set in on
Friday night developed into a gale, with hard rain
squalls.— Daily paper.
Summer came hand in hand with Spring, smiled, and
the city was faint with wonder;
Her warm breath touched the toiling people, and
made them turn to the playful sea ;
Bully Winter was dead and gone—till ev’ning came
with a growl of thunder ;
High in the sky the black cloud squadrons—brave
Winter’s henchmen—rode savagely.
Gone in a breath were Spring and Summer ; whistling
swords of the cloudy raiders
Cut at them, as they fled affrighted, with rustling
garments thro’ scrub and park ;
The level sea grew queerly old and rushed to buffet
the seaward traders;
Night came down on the seasons’ battle —the white
surf slashed in the roaring dark.
Up from the south great gusts came racing—Win-
ter’s vanguard on white-maned horses ;
Swift and terrible through the darkness the riders
swept on their northward way.
What gay sisters could face that fury? Who could
plead with such vengeful forces ?
That night of turmoil the whole coast trembled.
Winter ruled at the break of day.
Bravely in swept the smoking chargers, their grey
sides scarred and shrill winds whipping,
After the frenzied night-long gallop, in foam and
fury to charge and die;
White with brine from the battlefield, there reeled
into port a line of shipping;
A pale sun sought the vanished sisters, and lit in
passing the haggard sky.
N.S.W.
E. FRANCIS.
While the World Goes Round.
Now, this shall be a secret,
While e’er the world goes round;
I looked into your eyes, dear,
And deep therein I foundf
But that shall be a secret,
While e’er the world goes round.
It chanced—or was it written?—
When, like a hawk a-wing,
Fast followed fiery Summer
Upon the flight of Spring,
A man and maiden wandered
Within a fair demesne,
Where winding paths were shaded
By drooping boughs of green.
Across its gay lawns, gleaming,
Dark sylvan shadows grew,
Till Day in cloak of sable,
At eventide withdrew. ..
Then, in the starlight gloaming,
Her voice grew soft and low;
As “No” for “Yes” she whispered,
And maybe “Yes” for “No” l
She prayed his love platonic;
While, like a harp of Fate,
The echoes of the city
Fell deep and modulate.
But singing through the tree-tops,
He heard the night wind go,
As went the winds of Hellas,
Two thousand years ago.
Aye! Down the slopes of Athens,
And down the Delphic grove,
Where dreamed, beneath the starlight,
A lover and his love.
It brought the same old message,
It bore the same commands
That centuries beyond them,
Joined human lips and hands.
Ah, velvet was her cheek, dear,
And honey was her mouth;
And sweet to him her kisses,
As rain that follows drouth.
. .. And this shall be our secret:
While e’er the world goes round,
Within each others’ eyes, dear,
The truth that night they found.
VICTORIA.
E. J. BRADY.
Of Love in Absence.
Your face I left these many moons ago—
Itself a moon shining through Summer rain—-
Still shines for me with never-waning glow
Until the day 1 come to you again.
The tears even your brave eyes could not restrain
Oil our most miserable parting day,
Still make my cheek chill with an old salt stain:
Long absence cannot turn my love away.
And sometimes, when the whole of life grows grey,
Like a familiar murmuring, half heard,
Softly and tenderly I hear you say:
“Wait! There shall come an end to hope deferred !”
Meanwhile, your voice is with me, soft and low,
My longings and my prayers are not in vain,
For waves of memory all about me flow,
Until the day h, come to you again. .
Caresses of your finger-tips have lain
Upon my eyelids, as of old they lay;
And all my heart’s repeating one refrain:
“Long absence cannot turn my love away.”
A gift worth having is that, for which I pray,
Towards a goal worth winning my life is spurred.
For such a prize what would not man essay?
Wait! There shall come an end to hope deferred.
Yet, oh to be once more with you; to know
That nothing short of death can part us twain
One from the other: For the years drag slow,
Until the day I come to you again,
When Love supreme dominion shall attain,
And =ad hours go, and only sweet hours stay,
And you shall see how true these words remain:
Long absence cannot turn my love away.
Then there shall be an end of all dismay,
Your eyes shall shine, that once with tears were
blurred,
And Love alone shall bend us to his sway—
Wait! There shall come an end to hope deferred!
Until the day I come to you again
Long absence cannot turn my love away.
Wife! —if I dare to call you by that word—
At Fate’s inscrutable dealings why complain ?
Though for a while in loneliness we may
Wait, there shall come an end to hope deferred.
MAORILAND.
AWAKINO.


Combination Couch and Bed.
CHANGED INSTANTLY.
Size when open, 4ft. x 6ft. 7ln.
■*<<<»« ■«. \ ». -n V\“
v- ♦' * v » 'r v.‘ v n
f. ■»• V *■ * i> v •>
<«ft
CLOSED AS COUCH.
Commonwealth
Patent 12274.
—“
SLr._ - ~ * ./X. * - '. -*S
BJteT: - * • » *••»<*
- * ,v$
OPEN AS DOUBLE BED.
Cannot get out of order; is
exceptionally strong and durable.
Just the thing for offices,
small rooms, or where an extra
bed is required.
Invaluable for hotels, boarding-
houses, coffee palaces, and similar
establishments.
Can be had fitted with box, to
act as linen press. Three pieces
of furniture in one.
Elegantly upholstered.
CASH PRICES:
In Cretonne, £4 10s.; in
Tapestry or American Leather,
£5 55.; in Rexine, £6 6s. With
Box, 20s. extra.
Patent Rights held by
MARCUS CLARK & Co. Ltd.
SYDNEY.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’S, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Sewen
Prize Medals^
ķ
Works s Birmingham, England,
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. 1 hey glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention >s also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
The Goldfields Diamond Drilling Co., Ltd.,
339 Collins Street, MELBOURNE, 24 Bond Street, SYDNEY. Boulder Road, KALCOORLIE, W.A.
Diamond Drilling and Water Boring Contractors.
Sole Manufacturers of The Victoria Percussion Drill. Agents for THE SULLIVAN MACHINERY
CO.’S Diamond Drills, Air Compressors, Rock and Air Hammer Drills.
Drill Carbons and Spares for Diamond Drills Stocked. Full particulars and. prices on application.
WELSBACH
Electric Li£ht
Metal Filament Lamps.
no
rir
. i a
Far
Quality
Far
Strength
&
The life of the lamp is in the strength
of the Filaments. Hence the instant
success of the WELSBACH LAMP.
Write —NOW—for particulars to
Welsbach Light Co. of Australasia Ltd.,
302 Pitt Street, Sydney.
380 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
102-4 Victoria Street, Wellington.
GEO. WILLS & CO., Brisbane and Perth.
XMAS PRESENTS
It's time to thinK of them, and
it is well to remember tbat
if you buy them here yot»
will save money.
I pay postage on all goods,
and guarantee satisfaction
or money bacK.
Solid Gold Bangle,
set with 2 pearls
and 3 rubies, Safety
Chain attached,
Silver-plated, Self-closing Shaving Strop, beautifully
finished. Special value,
Solid Silver
Hair Brush,
handsomely
embossed,
good quality
bristles, only
10,6
Send me your Name and Address for a
copy of my BIG XMAS CATALOGUE.
It will be ready shortly.
JOE DAVIS,
• The Money-Saving Jeweller,
26 Park St.,
One Door from Pitt St.,
SYDNEY.
jhk
The Award of Good Judges for
ABDULLA CIGARETTES.
At the Festival of Empire Imperial Ex-
hibition, London, the only GRAND PRIX
for Cigarettes was awarded to ABDULLAS.
When you try them yourself, you will
be pleasantly, impressed by their subtle
charm —their soothing and satisfying inilu-
ence.
Turkish, Virginian and Egyptian grades.
Ask your tobacconist for them.
Dalgety & Co. Ltd.,
Wholesale Agents
for Australia.
The Halley is a practical
and powerful Motor Lorry
—it will do the heavy work, negotiate the roughest roads and hills, and do
it in ONE-THIRD OF THE TIME taken by horses. It will get your goods
to town quicker—often enabling you to catch an earlier and better market.
The Halley is easily controlled—a novice soon learns the way. It is powerful-
accessible—and constructed so thoroughly that danger of breakdown is absolutely minimised.
NEARLY EVERY ORDER HAS SECURED A REPEAT. This is convincing
evidence of satisfactory service.
Why not buy a Halley yourself —and have the modern transport service which is
becoming so popular in town and country ?
Available in Iscwt., 20cwt., 2>£ up to 6-ton sizes.
Write Jor full particulars.
DALGETY & GO. LTD.,
Motor Garage,
i-8 Phillip Street, Sydney


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Voi.. P. 2.— No. 1655.
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 2. 1911.
Prick fin.
NOT LIKE THE GOOD OLD DAYS.
THE YOUTH: “But all these things are necessary to one of my growth, Granny! Think of the ultimate value, the utility, the
THE OLD ’UN: “Tut, tut, my boy I That ain’t the point! Most barefaced an’ reckless extravagance I calls it—an’ without a single
bloomin’ pawn-ticket to show fer it!”
There is, however, this satisfactory feature in connection with
Federal finance that, though the taxpayers' money is being paid
out with a generous hand, it is largely being expended upon
works that many Governments provide for out of loan moneys.
—S. M. Herald.
Enough has, however, been said, to show
that this financial statement means a con-
tinuance of the present era of reckless and
extravagant expenditure.— Sydney Tele-
graph.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod,
of Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mos-
man, for Tiie Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
Ltd., at the Office of the Co., 214 George-
street North. Sydney, N. S. Wales, Aus-
tralia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES : Business, 1384- Central.
Editorial, 257 City.
TERMS TO BUItSCRTBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Per Annum .. . . ..£l6O
Half-yearly .. .. .. 0 13 6
Quarterly .. .. .. 0 7 0
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-
Si.r Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin
posted regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communica-
tions to he addressed to William Macleod, Manag-
ing Director.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the
paper (and. to an extent, themselves) by taking
some care as to methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, ad-
vertisements, etc.) should in no case be addressed to
the Editor, but to the Manager. To send them to
the Editor is to invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters
to anyone by name. “The Editor, The Bulletin,” is
the proper superscription for “copy.” Delay, and
even loss, is sometimes caused by addressing to per-
sons instead of officials. The person may not be
there; the official always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
, The Editor will carefully read and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” col-
umn all contributions submitted, whether in the
form of Political, Social or other Articles, Verse,
Short 'Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specialty accept-
able), Paragraphs, Letters or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS.
when the address is specified and stamps are en-
closed. But no MS. will be returned, or preserved,
unless these conditions are observed. When MS. is
forwarded without stamps for return it will be un-
derstood that the copy is to be destroyed if not ac-
ceptable. Personal applications for return of MS.
cannot receive attention. The Bulletin desires,
fiirther, those sending MS. to distinctly understand
that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
DIRECT reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea,
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any pic-
ture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
The Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on
account of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale
agents) to Victoria, West Australia, Queensland,
Tasmania and New Zealand; and on account of
Messrs. Atkinson and Co. and lligby, Ltd., Adelaide
—at Ij/G per doz. nett.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town; Dawson and Son, Capetown; The Central
News Agency, Durban, Natal; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., i/I/l Hastings Street;
Jepson Bros., Nanaimo, B.C.
U.S.A.—Golden Gate News Co., 789 Market Street,
San Francisco; C. IF. Jewett, Utah, U.S.A.; Childs
News Agency, corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego,
Cal.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port
Said.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon.. — ll. John and Co.
Agents’ Special Notice.
Tiie Bulletin metal advertising plates, size
6%in. x U/in., will be forwarded on application.
Larger sizes can be supplied if desired.
Postage Rates.
Single Copies, Tiie Bulletin (Registered as a
Newspaper) :—Throughout the Commonwealth, New
Zealand. Fiji, British New Guinea, Norfolk and Lord
Ilowe Islands, lOoz. id.; United Kingdom, All Sea
Route, 16oz. Id. — otherwise, Boz. Id., and Bsoz. to
lOoz., Hid; lOoz. to IZoz., 3d; elsewhere, l)OZ., Id.,
<.ad id. each additional Zoz.
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 1911.
THE FREEHOLD SCRIBE AND THE
LEASEHOLD PHARISEE.
When the State of N.S.W. isn’t harassed
by strikes or the problem of Speaker
Willis, it devotes its spare time, these days,
to making disturbances over the old Free-
hold v. Leasehold problem. Nominally the
Labor party, now in office, is the supporter
of the leasehold system. Leasehold is on its
programme, and has been there, if The Bul-
letin remembers aright, ever since there
was a programme. Minister Nielsen is un-
derstood to have dropped a profitable port-
folio by reason of disputes on this matter,
he having taken his principles’ too seri-
ously. Two private members are said to
have resigned over it, and thereby cast a
blight or a fungus over the McGowen Go-
vernment’s majoi'ity. Premier McGowen is"
alleged to be dodging it, and Attorney-
General Holman to be side-stepping it as
(langerous. On the other hand, the Wade
Opposition clamors for the freehold, and the
Tory press demands it as the only possible
salvation of the country. And behind all this
lies the curious fact that the Wade party,
on all the evidence, doesn’t care a straw
more for the freehold than the Government
does, and the Government cares a very little
more for the leasehold than Wade does.
The trouble seems to be partly a hollow
mockery, and partly a tinkling cymbal, and
partly an alarming evidence of how difficult
it is to shake off old mental habits.
As a matter of definition, land is free-
hold in a practical, though perhaps not in a
strictly legal, sense when it belongs to any-
body—the State, or Daniel Cooper, or
Tyson, or any other person or corporation.
Whether it is freehold when it has no
known owner save Providence is a ques-
tion which need mot be entered into here.
And it is leasehold when it is leased by
anybody from anybody—whether the second
anybody be the State, or Macartiiur On-
slow, or the Duke of Numskull. Practi-
cally all land is freehold and a lot of it is
leasehold, iiut the advocates of freehold
only use the term when the soil and the un-
earned increment thereof are in the hands of
a private owner. They don’t openly profess
that their belief in the sale of State lands to
private owners arises from an insatiable de-
sire to steal the unearned increment or com-
munity-created value. Their motives, by
their own account, are of the highest and
purest. The cultivator, they say, never does
his best, and never feels really settled on
the soil, dust, bog or whatever it is, unless
the patch of earth is his very own. Nations,
they allege, can only be really made out of
freeholders, and they badly want to make
nations. Yet their statement is, on
the face of it, about the dullest dog of an
imposture that could be imagined. The so-
called freehold party doesn't believe that
the way to make a nation is to settle men
each on his own bit of land —or else it
doesn’t care twopence about making a. na-
tion. It knows that the British Isles are
almost entirely leasehold, the only differ-
ence being that the leaseholder there pays
rent to some private owner instead of to a
State department, and finds the private
owner the much harder landlord of the two ;
yet it doesn’t profess to call the British
Isles a failure. It has seen all the Western
District of Victoria and great areas of the
longest-settled parts of N.S.W. drifting
into the leasehold system, but because the
leaseholder paid rent to a bumptious pri-
vate proprietor, instead of to the State, the
freehold party was quite content. Indeed,
when the party which believes, theoretically,
in leasehold imposed the progressive land
tax with a view to breaking up these great
leaseholds into a multitude of small free-
holds, each occupied and worked by the
owner, the alleged freehold party was so
mad with this proposal to abandon the
leasehold system that its shriek of “Confis-
cation !” was heard almost among the stars.
So an advocate of the freehold is simply
a person who wants some private individual
to get the rent and the unearned increment
instead of these going to the community.
He doesn’t care the value of one half-brick
whether the occupier of the land is the
freeholder or not. If he believes —which,
being a born liar, he probably doesn’t —
that only the possession of the freehold will
urge the occupier to do the best for himself
and the country, then he plainly cares for
neither the occupier nor the country. He is
always yearning to give the tenant of the
State a right of compulsory purchase from
his landlord. But when that person does his
purchase and lets the land, the advocate of
the freehold can never see why the new
tenant should get similar right of compul-
sory purchase as against his landlord. And
if it was proposed to give this new lease-
holder the same chance to acquire the free-
hold that the freehold party declared was
absolutely essential in the case of the old
leaseholder —well, the freehold party would
defend the leasehold system even unto the
last ditch, and the last pint of mud therein.
All this time, strangely enough, the
alleged leasehold party is prepared to nearly
ruin the country in the interests of the
freeholder —a freeholder who, as a rule,
hasn’t even the merit of occupying his own
bit of property. The only difference be-
tween it and the freehold party is that it is
difficult to say which is the worse fraud,
and that is rather a resemblance than
a difference. There are on the coast of
N.S.W. three or four deep-water ports sur-
rounded by land which is very little more
expensive to-day than it was in the days of
Captain Cook. These ports are carefully
shut off from access by land. Because
the adjacent population isn’t allowed to use
them its wheat often rots while waiting for
the almost impossible chance to get along
the immensely long and immensely con-
gested line which leads to the ohe port the
use of which is allowed. Also, its sheep
and bullocks often perish of thirst and
misery in the trucks while blocked on the
hopeless journey. If the Labor Government
resumed the cheap land round these closed
ports, and built a few short lines of railway
to open them up, it might be the sole
ground landlord of three big cities with
illimitable possibilities of expansion. That
would not only be a large and whole-souled
application of the leasehold policy, but it
would also call half the State back from
the tomb. But the present system, though
eminently disastrous to many outlying sec-
tions of the State, is very profitable to the
private landlords of Sydney. And, appar-
ently, the Labor Government, despite its
theoretical devotion to the leasehold sys-
tem, is the absolute slave of the great city
landlords.
* * * *
The alleged advocates of State owner-
ship and State leasehold make a certain
amount of fuss re the retention in the
hands of the State of some agricultural and
pastoral areas of considerable extent but
comparatively small value. Some of them
show signs of weakening even on this, but
in the main they are solid on retaining as
public property the areas not yet disposed
of. These are almost entirely of two classes
—the areas that are far out, and dry, and
barren because of their dryness, and those
that are closer to the coast, and fertile but
made of little value by their remoteness
from any city. The advocates of the lease-
hold system appear resolved t to carefully
preserve this remoteness and this conse-
quent lack of value, in order to give the
leasehold system the least possible oppor-
tunity. The lesson they refuse to learn is
that devotion to the principle of State land
ownership isn’t to be measured wholly by
the area of land that the State owns. Syd-
ney with its suburbs is a mere speck on the
map, and represents only about one-thou-
sandth part of the area of the Western
Division of N.S.W. Yet its unimproved
value is worth four times as much as that
of the Western Division. The Government
which founded, on a policy of State ground-
landlordism, three cities, each of them with
a chance of growing to be anything at all
like Sydney, would probably do a heap
more for the leasehold system than if it
abolished all further country land sales
from now till the Day of Judgment.
Yet the present N.S.W. Government does
nothing. The opportunity to found these
cities is there. Tae need for them is clamor-
ous. The success of the experiment is cer-
tain. But the Government could hardly, in
view of its alleged principles, found them
on the simple old system of selling the new
city allotments by auction to private specu-
lators. And Ht can’t found them according
to its own professed leasehold policy without
risk of damaging the future unearned incre-
ment of its beloved friend, the Sydney pri-
vate land-owner. So it carefully does nothing.
There are really no serious objections to
the freehold system provided it is practised
according to the methods which its advocates
profess to believe in but don’t. If the land
carries its fair share of taxation; if that
taxation is so adjusted as to grievously dis-
courage the holding of great areas and is
specially heavy on the man who lets land
as against the man who uses land; and if
not only does the State’s tenant have a
right to buy the freehold of his land at a
fair independent valuation, but every other
landlord's tenant has the same absolute
right —then the freehold is a perfectly
reasonable idea. Supposing it to be truej as
alleged by Wade and the Herald and the
Telegraph, that the occupant will never do
the best that is possible for iiimself and for
the country unless he can feel that his bit
of soil is his own, then by all means let it
be his own—not the property of Antill or
Onslow or Dan Cooper or Manifold or
James McGowen, or even the State. On
the other hand, there is much to be said for
the leasehold, provided the State isn’t afraid
to be the sole ground landlord of big cities as
well as of a few desolate cow or sheep areas
in the backblocks. Either method is logical
when worked logically. Unfortunately,
when there are two parties in Parliament,
and each one preaches its own policy badly
and practises its enemy’s policy clumsily,
nothing is logical.
THE BOTTLE.
The Bulletin’s Practical Revolutionist
writes: —-
The sale of bottled beer was prohibited in Liver-
pool (England) during the recent strikes, in order
that the bottles might not be used in street fighting.
The prohibition is itself a striking one, in view of
the fact that the race which still inhabits the British
places called Liverpool and London has pretty well
sown the face of the whole known world with the
empty shells of departed gladness. Were our civi-
lisation of to-day suddenly swept into the limbo of
forgotten things, it would be the bottle that, above
all else, would remain to telj of all our greatness.
Meat tins would rust and mingle with the desert
sands, galvanised iron would jserish> and newspapers
rot, together with last year’s leaves, but the bottle
would remain on to the last to tell its tale of heroic
endeavor at every outpost won by the British race.
Looking around the future world, men might every-
where read an empire’s epitaph written in glass. It
was an urn, dug from the preserving earth of cen-
turies, and still bright with its leaf-fringed legend
of a lost artist’s imaginings, that brought all the
glory of ancient Greece before the eye of Keats. A
glazed and painted vase, hardly saved from the wreck
of the ruined years, and yet the emblem that could
speak for ever the. full language of seven glowing
centuries of strong life! The world buries its kings
and kingdoms, its gladdest drunks and most forlorn
mornings after, its boasts, its spites, its dreams, its
fashions and its loves, and still holds all that races
of men have done in one little emblem of their power
and achievement. There is a boastful pyramid for
Egvpt, a squat Buddha of stone for ancient India,
a mound of bricks in the desert for Babylon, and for
Greece —white Hellas singing in the morning of the
world —an urn whose beauty of shape and color can
hold all the ashes of her artist-thought. Emblems
are not to be cast lightly aside into the rubbish-tips
of history. They gather up in smallest compass the
words that would cover whole reams of paper. They
are the forceful cartoons with which the artist Time
tries to drive home the lessons of the rolling ages
to the man whose real life is spent in the short
intervals betwen the hunt for bread and butter and
the sleep which enables him to renew the chase.
For Rome there stands a cross. Huge Rome,
spreading her arms to the east and west, drawing to
her purple heart the spoils of lands and peoples, lift-
ing her sword-girt eagles to the sun, and vaunting
her splendid strength in the eys of doom, has left
to the world the torture-gallows on which she was
wont to torment to death the enemies of her peace.
Rome chose the eagle as her standard. Time chose
the cross as her more fitting emblem. Wherever
her empire held sway, and far beyond its utmost
limit, the sign that Constantine dreamt in the sun-
set is reared on flag and building. Fashioned in
wood, cut in stone, blazoned on silk, stamped upon
paper, the Roman cross remains when all that ever
her purple designed is written over with
the large word “Ruin.”
In the red cap of Liberty is the soul of the whole
French Revolution. It stands as the emblem of that
sudden Gallic thunderstorm* which burst upon Europe
a hundred years ago, scorching with its lightnings
the old, effete things that had lain as a blight and
curse upon the, people. The noise, the forks of de-
stroying fire, the deep reverberations in the hills, the
wild havoc of an hour, and the rapid breaking of the
clouds which concealed the sun —all remain typified
in the red cap. French kings and nobles had chosen
lilies as their national symbol. They were not
natural lilies of the garden or meadow, but quaint,
conventional things which some early Court artist
had conceived as a hybrid between a spear-head and
a wineglass. As emblematic of the things that
were washed away in blood before the rising tide of
the Revolution they were excellent; but the red caps
which floated on the summit of that terrible wave
were the true token of the living France. That
red cap has been worn by the revolutionaries of other
lands, but it belongs to France alone. In the re-
publics of South America the thing stands merely
as proof of that unimaginative imitation, which
plays at upsetting Governments in the cause of
liberty when all the shooting is being done merely
in the interests of riot and plunder. France, the
land of splendid ideals and fiery courage, the land
of broken hopes and glorious failure, the land of
tumultuous emotion and sudden calm—France, at
once the olive grove and volcano of Europe—to her,
and to her alone, belongs of right the red cap of
Liberty.
* * * *
And England has her beer bottle. Grecian urn,
Egyptian pyramid, Roman cross, French cap of Lib-
erty, and British bottle—the emblems will stand in
the cartoons' of time for all the ages to read. An
English revolution has been reported to be in pro-
gress. To hoist a red cap over it were to .mock and
trifle with the true spirit which appears to be at
work from end to end of the fog-girt isle. England
is not France. The Keltic races are utterly distinct
from those of tlje old Gothic stock. The English-
man is still, both in race and instinct, a Goth.
When Rome was a rising Power, great waves of
Keltic invasion surged against her bulwarks, to reel
back shattered and broken from the brazen shields
of the coming mistress of the world. But when the
Goth came, it was as if a rolling tidal sea had burst
its bounds. Slow at first in its movement, the
storm gradually gathered head, until not all the
organised forces of the empire could check or
stay it. The Keltic descents were swift, sudden and
almost successful; the Gothic movements vast, slow
and beyond the power of all the world to stop. The
Kelt cut his way through with sharp swords and
spears; the Goth broke his passage with a tremendous
hammer. To-day, the Goth in England is slowly ris-
ing to assert his claim, and, in one mighty revolu-
tion of the social wheel, place himself on the top of
all the cumbering loads that have hitherto held him
down. He looks round for his old war-hammer, but
it: has been raislai.d for over 1000 years. The nearest
wea P° n^ to h >s hand is a bottle. #
The bottle of the Kn gbsli revolution is one that
lately held beer. The Kelt fires his soul
on swift wine or swifter spirits; the Goth drinks the
slow beer of his race. In Time’s large picture lan-
ffuage of symbol and emblem, this, too, is worthy of
"?*£• As lhe httie wineglass is to the huge measure
of beer > s 0 1S the force of the Gothic upheaval to
that of its Keltic forerunner. France leaped into
sudden, volcanic flame; in England, the premonitory
shocks of a great earthquake have been felt. Enor-
mous forces are at work. The grinding poverty of
centuries, the scorn and insult of caste, the ever-
f owin " pressure of the capitalistic system, and the
dawning knowledge that one Titanic effort may hurl
every burden from his shoulders, have awakened
the slumbering spirit of the Goth in Britain. Watch-
ing these things from Australia, we may possibly have
them in clearer perspective than those who are in
the midst of the turmoil. We read of cannon and
machine-guns, of cavalry to clear the streets, of vol-
levs Area over the strikers’ heads, of concessions
granted to the strikers, only to be followed a few
days later by renewed demands, and we see in these
happenings a foretaste of what is yet to come. The
f allant Scots Greys ride down on the shouting
thr ,°ng, the drawn sabres gleam, the crowds break
anti run for shelter. To-day, the streets are cleared,
and to-morrow, and to-morrow; and then—it may be
a week hence, or a year, of 10 j r ears—the fear of all
things departs, and it is the bottle of revolution that
ffleams, the bottle transformed by the madness of
a 7 ak ened hope, pressing the wild charge of a nation
of men no’ne on the military, who stand for the old
an( j passing, order. The bottle in 10 million hands
is mightier than all authority, hacked though it be
with cannon and military discipline. Words, papers,
bayonets, stone walls—ail the instruments of govern-
ments and princes—would then be but as the sprink-
whe+w I v, the + ac< n ° f v, a forest fi £ e -
Whether the revolution has actually begun, or the
present strikes are but its forewarning, all evidence
points to the fact that the whole social structure of
Britain is ripe for complete change. Failing drastic
aad sudden action on the part of statesmen, politi-
mans, capitalists, financiers, aristocrats, and other
S do th jhimself " ian 18 K °' n "
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Andrew Fisher’s Finance.
The verdict upon the Fisher Government’s
financial statement is that it might have been
better, and it also might have been worse.
At the same time, had any other party been
in charge, there would have been 10 chances
that the budget would be worse for one
chance that it would be better. This is how
the revenue and expenditure have gone, or
are expected to go:—
Revenue. Expenditure. Deficit.
1909- .. .. £15,540,669 £16,244,071 £703,902
Surplus.
1910- .... .. 18,803,873 16,523,065 2,280,808
Deficit.
1911- (estimate) .. 19,515,000 21,227,679 1,712,679
The deficit is a misfortune, yet it is not so
bad as it looks, for the old surplus will cover
it and leave a balance to the good—in other
words, should things turn out no better than
the forecast, there will still be a surplus at
June, 1912. But it is quite probable (the
drought not having fairly arrived yet) that
the revenue will be larger than the estimate
and the. deficit less, for Prime Minister
Fisher isn’t a wildly sanguine man in cash
matters. His proposed shortage is also a
shade better than it looks, inasmuch as it
includes a multitude of works which the
thriftless old State Governments used invari-
ably to charge to loans —such works as:
Telegraphs and telephones, £1,300,000; sites
for telegraph offices. £50,000; Sydney G.P.O.
extensions, £33,000; “wireless” stations,
£10,800; transcontinental railway survey,
£22,500, and the like. All these are things
which ought to be paid out of revenue; so
the verdict is that, the Fisher Ministry, so
far as it has gone, is no better than it should
be, in financial matters, yet a great deal
better than any other Government that Aus-
tralia has possessed for the last 50 years,
and more. Furthermore, the year’s accounts
are charged with £673,600, being two years'
interest and sinking fund on the cost of pro-
perties taken over from the States, which
makes them look £336,800 worse than they
really are. And the Commonwealth having
taken over the Northern Territory and the
Port Augusta-Oodnadatta railway with the
debts attached, it pays £65,600 into a sink-
ing fund towards the abolition of these debts
—which is, also, the sort of thing which the
State Governments weren’t much addicted
to doing. The sum of £1,515,000 is pro-
vided towards the miserable little “fleet
unit” —an affair which is described as to
consist of one big cruiser, three little ditto,
and nine smaller craft. This tiny lot, which
will cost about £4,000,000 to build and
£750,000 a year to maintain, is spoken of as
if it were the beginning and end of the Aus-
tralian naval defence, so it appears that the
£1,515,000 is not expected to be a regular
item, and the bill.is to be smaller after the
first splash is over. Yet if Australia paid as
much per head for naval defence as Britain
does, it would provide about four millions
(£4,000,000) a year as a steady thing, and,
seeing that the individual Australian has
about 200 times more country to defend
than the individual Briton, he really wants
to expend more per head instead of less. Two
other saddening features about the Fisher
budget are the proposal to borrow for the
construction of the first transcontinental
railway (though the loan will have the sav-
in'? grace of a sinking fund attacned), and
the lack of any assurance that the revenue
derived from the investment of the money
received in exchange for Federal notes will
not be used as ordinary income, but accumu-
lated at compound interest for the ultimate
extinction of the country's liabilities. The
transcontinental railway loan, however, is a
thing of the future. So far as it has gone,
the Fisher Government’s finance has been
the cleanest, most honest and most capable
that Australia has seen or heard of since the
giddy youth of the oldest inhabitant. It
could be improved, but the present Tory
party possesses nobody who seems likely to
do better, or even to do one-half as well.
■ ♦
Boneyards, Smells, etc.
The report of the Board that John Weary
appointed to inquire into Melbourne’s Nox-
ious Trades and allied matters raises a ques-
tion that will presently call for settlement
in a loud voice. The report advises the
Government to heave the whole of the live
stock sale-yards, abattoirs and noxious
trades of all kinds at least 10 miles out of
the city in a north-westerly or westerly di-
rection, and concentrate them in one local-
ity ; to appoint a permanent salaried com-
mission of three to autocratically control
these industries, professions or diseases; and
to revoke the grants of land to the city


CHRISTMAS EDITION of
“THE BULLETIN/’ 1911.
A Special and Enlarged Issue
Published on DECEMBER 14.
It will contain the best Stories, Verse and
Sketches, grave and gay (mostly gay), con-
tributed during the year by the foremost Aus-
tralasian writers.
The illustrations, by “Hop,” Alf Vincent, Nor-
man Lindsay and ocher leading representative
artists, will be the finest Black and White work
obtainable in Australia, and will reflect the
national humor.
The Bulletin Christmas Number is the annual
reflection of the life and thoughts of our country,
and therefore useful as well as interesting.
Agents will be supplied at the usual rates, but,
in consequence of the heavy outlay on this Special
Edition, NO RETURNS will be accepted.
ORDERS FOR EXTRA COPIES should reach
us not later than the 18tli NOVEMBER to ensure
supply.
Single copies post free to any part of the Com-
monwealth States and Maoriland, 7d.; Foreign
addresses, 9d.
council at Parkville and Flemington, and
compensate it for the buildings, etc., it has
placed thereon. As to I lie permanent com-
mission, the Board would like to see it take
over all private abattoirs, boneyards, etc.,
and generally boss all noxious trades of
whatever sort; and* by-and-bye, build and
run meat works, freezing and tinning
works and by-prodUct foundries. Scattered
among these recommendations are many in-
sulting remarks about the city council, its
monopoly of the metropolitan markets, the
difficulty of getting any information as to
what that monopoly iS worth, and the ex-
ceeding unwisdom of permitting any muni-
cipal body at One and the same time to draw
revenue from abattoirs and markets in its
capacity as a council, and to control the
sanitary administration of these affairs in
its capacity as a board of health. Mel-
bourne already has a Fife Brigades Board, a
Water and Sewage Board, a Tramway
Trust, a Harbor Trust, a Foreshore Trust
and other similar eotloerns, and there are
proposals for a larger Tramway Commis-
sion, a Charities Board, a Road
Board, a Noxious Trades Commission,
and the Lord knows what other planks
or scaffolds. If the WEARY Citizens are going
to govern themselves by commission, well
and good: but, in that case, the councils
ought to be abolished as superfluous. The
question that should be faced is whether
these isolated Boards, which are liable to
work in utter disregard of one another’s
plans, can possibly do as good work as one
strong municipal body, representing all Mel-
bourne and suburbs. The fact that com-
missions are called for suggests pointedly
that the present disjointed municipal gov-
ernment is a failure; but Instead of improv-
ing the municipal system, Melbourne is
drifting into another equally disjointed sys-
tem of government, though the disjointed-
ness—coupled, no doubt, with a rotten fran-
chise —is chiefly what Is the matter with the
old system.
The Postal Vote.
The clause in the Federal Electoral Bill
which abolishes the postal vote has driven
the Tory party to great anger. The postal
vote was devised, in the first place, for the
benefit of the sick, the infirm and the un-
avoidable absentees, and its abolition will
certainly disfranchise a lot of people wlio
don’t deserve to be disfranchised. But
Toryism has only itself to blame. It made
the postal vote stink right up to the gates of
lleaven in the McEaciiarn-Maloney con-
test for the Melbourne electorate in 1903.
Anybody has the right to vote by post if
absent from the electorate on polling day.
Anybody may be absent, or may declare that
he, or she, is going to be absent, under suffi-
cient pressure or inducement. The postal
vote lacks the secrecy of the ballot, there-
fore the party with the largest amount of
pressure or inducement concealed about it
can get the largest number of assured votes.
Pressure or inducement or threats or
bribery are of no account at the ballot-box,
for one may pay any amount for a vote, and
yet have no proof that the goods are de-
livered. But with the postal vote it is dif-
ferent. In the case alluded to, the propor-
tion of postal votes was amazingly large, and
the Tory party made the hideous mistake of
admitting that it knew in advance that the
said vote Aynuld be largely in favor of the
Tory candidate. The count of the ballot
papers put Maloney ahead, but an unfortu-
nate Conservative paper assured the public
that things might be quite different when the
postal vote was counted. And they were
quite different. People began to note that
the postal vote was often unaccountably
large, and that, when it was unaccountably
large, it was almost always strongly Tory.
So the Fisher Government proposes to abol-
ish it, and thereby disfranchise the sick,
infirm and bed-ridden, as well as the large
number of feminine voters who are incapaci-
tated. because they are about to help along
the birth-rate, or have just helped it
along. _ And, regarding this proposed dis-
franchisement, the Tory press laments like
Jeremiah, and thereby gives itself away
again. It is impossible to see why it should
lament so badly, assuming that it has been
honest in its dealings. The sick and infirm
of the poorer classes are those who are least
able to hire two nurses and a motor-car to
take them to the polling booth. The birth-
rate is much higher in the working-men’s
suburbs than in the places where the rich
congregate, so in this respect the woman who
votes the Labor ticket will be much oftener
disqualified than the one who votes the Tory
ticket. On any plain, fair basis the Labor
party, by abolishing the postal vote, is seri-
ously handicapping its own supporters.
Surely it cannot be that the Tory crowd is
going on a complex and unfair basis !
The Professional Politician.
Reuter mentioned last week that Lord
Dudley remarked :
He hoped England would never follow Australia’s
example in having professional politicians.
And immediately the welkin rang with the
protests of a number of enraged State politi-
cians, who considered that the utterance sig-
nified a reflection on their characters or use-
fulness or something. In point of fact, all
that it signifies is that the ex-Governor-
General suffers from the immemorial Tory
inability to assimilate new ideas. The
modern student of statecraft has accepted it
as an axiom for some time now, that the
only politician who is worth trusting with a
responsible job must be a professional. The
principle is recognised in practice in Con-
servative Britain no less than in progressive
Australia. Take the party now in office in
the United Kingdom. Rueus Isaacs —-the
unchallenged leader of the English Bar, and
a man who would go automatically to the
top in any profession to which he addressed
himself seriously—remains a political nonen-
tity, while immeasurably inferior Liberals- —
McKenna, Runciman, Crewe, Carring-
ton —march from one Cabinet position to
the other. The explanation is that these
men, unlike Isaacs, are professional politi-
cians, pure and simple, and are willing to
give their time to the job. Rosebery has
elected to be, in politics, the eternal ama-
teur, and, consequently, he has been a com-
parative failure. Such mediocrities as John
Burns, Herbert Gladstone and the late
Campbell-Bannerman, succeeded where he
failed, largely because they made politics
their life-work, to the exclusion of all other
interests. Australia’s most tragic failures,
the obstructionists who misunderstood the
people’s will in regard to almost every big
question—Federation, fiscalism, defence, in-
dustrial legislation—have been amateurs ;
men like George Reid, Bruce Smith, Wil-
liam McMillan, etc., who were only politi-
cians when there was nothing doing at the Bar
or in the softgoods trade. Its brightest lights
—men like Batchelor, Watson, Price,
Kingston, Berry, Parkes, who all stood
out conspicuously in their various ways—
have been straight-out professionals, first,
last and all the time. There is only one
real defect in this country’s considered
scheme of deliberately encouraging the pro-
fessional politician, namely, the fact that the
said encouragement is inadequate. High-
class barristers, engineers, doctors, and the
like, are only procurable at a high figure.
Professional Judges, railway commissioners
and other experts are paid well, and every-
one agrees that the custom represents good
economy. Probity has a most intimate rela-
tion to affluence. The British Judge re-
frains, as a class, from boodling, not because
he is of a different clay from his frequently
corrupt American brother, but because his
good salary and his steady job put him above
temptation in this respect. By some pro-
cess of utterly rotten logic—a survival,
probably, of the dark days when indigent
parliamentarians lived on what they could
steal —it is still widely accepted that, for
making the country’s laws, a man should be
paid a paltry wage. A thousand a year is
none too much for a member of the Aus-
tralian Parliament; and the sooner the elec-
tors appreciate it the better. For that
figure a capable and unassailably upright
type of representative should be got; one
whom the shade of a member of one of Wal-
pole’s parliaments, say—where there were
no professionals, but where the few ama-
teurs who hadn’t their price have been handed
down to history as marvels —would regard
as an incomprehensible freak.
The Ghost-Cows that Wait for Premier
McGowen at the Gate of Heaven.
“Railway Congestion” got a lot of space
all to itself in the N.S.W. Assembly and
the Sydney papers last week —in fact, it
was Congestion’s week out. A good many
curious statements were made by one person
■ and another. One member told of how he
had found 70,000 bags of wheat (another
report put it as 170,000 bags of wheat)
stored in a “mudhole” at Junee. Another
lamented about 505,511 bags stacked some-
where else. It was complained that when a
farmer had the luck to get his wheat to
Darling Harbor, Sydney, it often couldn’t
be unloaded for days owing to lack of space,
and though this wasn’t the farmer’s fault,
he had to pay rent for the trucks. It was
alleged that even if the railways were dupli-
cated at the cost of some millions, it would
do very little good, for Darling Harbor
would only be blocked worse. It was also
remarked that the railways would have to
be duplicated all the same, and Darling-
Harbor would have to darned well do the
best it could. Further, it was stated that so
many new branch lines are being built, all
converging on one spot, that the main lines
are likely to be congested as they approach
the city, even after they are duplicated, and
as for Darling Harbor, it will be congested
like perdition. It was declared that there
aren’t enough trucks, and that the
trucks there are can’t get to Syd-
ney owing to the pressure, and yet
that the trucks that do get to Syd-
ney are too numerous altogether. It was
pointed out that it now takes a week to get
a vehicle loaded with potatoes from Goul-
burn to Sydney, despite the fact that the
line is duplicated a great part of the way—
that is to say, it takes a w r eelc after the
spuds are fairly started. Amid all this
clamor of daily papers and wailful poli-
cians, not a soul mentioned that N.S.W. has
other useful ports besides Sydney. About
the tales of wheat and potatoes there were
certain relieving elements of humor. They
were tragic in their way, but no one ever
heard a,mangled wheat bag moaning in its
death agony, or a cwt. of potatoes going
mad with thirst and terror. It was the
horrors of the sheep and cattle business
which constituted the real misery. The
cow or jumbuck has a sad experience in a
crowded railway truck even at the best of
times. When its journey is made far longer
than it need be; when it spends a week or
more struggling over a mileage which should
be covered in a day; when it is bailed up
over and over and over again at dry sidings
to let other trains pass on hopelessly over-
crowded lines; when animals die of thirst
in the trucks or sink down from sheer ex-
haustion, and are trodden to death —then
the story becomes wholly unpleasant. There
should be the ghosts of many anguished cows
waiting to accuse Premier McGowen —
McGowen, Sunday-school superintendent
and prosperous Sydney landlord —and other
politicians at the gate of Heaven. Three
dead and three dying cows were taken from
one train last week after the animals had
been two days and two nights without
water. The outfit didn’t even reach Syd-
ney ; its load of mangled horror was dis-
charged prematurely at Campbelltown. That
makes six more bovine ghosts to wait for
McGowen at the gate of Heaven.
The Troubles of Peacock.
“0.K.” writes :
The third chapter of Melbourne’s Mary Davies case
has ended in the passing of sentence of death on old
Dr. Peacock, a medical man who enjoyed a certain
local notoriety. The first chapter of this unpleasant -
story told how Mary Davies entered Peacock’s
particularly private hospital as a patient, and passed
out of the ken of the only young man who had seen
her after she became an inmate. This young man,
under police pressure, accused Dr. Peacock of hav-
ing told him that Mary Davies died —not of the
puerperal fever she developed as the result of a fall
whilst she was convalescing, but through being chloro-
formed by the doctor when her end seemed near and
she was screaming in her delirium. Also, the young
man accused the doctor of having stated that he
disposed of the corpse “by means best known to
himself.”
From the outset there was every reason to sup-
pose that Mary Davies did die and disappear in
Peacock’s old-established institution. Some of the
details in the story of Mary’s lover were open to
grave doubt, nevertheless the main fact acquired a
certain aspect of plausibility from Dr. Peacock’s
confused narratives. Accused of murdering Mary
Davies, he first said that he had never seen; the girl.
When some of her jewellery was discovered in his
possession, he simply refused to answer any more
questions concerning Mary. He was “oyster,” as
the late Tom Bent would have remarked.
The next chapter told of how the Melbourne daily
papers were charged with contempt of court in hav-
ing published the details of the police case against
Peacock. The Court, in its legal horror at the
newspapers’ conduct, talked several yards of vocabu-
lary about the prisoner’s right to be tried by an
unbiassed jury-,' But the Court knew, as all the
world knows, that every report of every suspected
murder prevents the possibility of any possible jury
being unbiassed on entering the box. Had Dr.
Peacock offered any proof that the detectives were
seeking the dead body of a live girl, the newspapers
would have published his statement, thus prejudicing
the public mind in his favor. Critically considered,
this chapter of the story strikes ine as foolish.
Then came the trial of the aged Peacock, ending
in a sentence of death, subject to a subsequent
“statement of case,” or legal whatnot, which will
perhaps result in a cancellation of the jury’s verdict.
The old and (by some people) respected medico
asked the jury to believe that the purpose of his
attentions to his disastrous patient was the preven-
tion of a mishap, and that, in spite of her having
< suffered a fall, through trying to walk without
assistance, she actually was able to leave his hospi-
tal in a pregnant state, prepared to “face her trouble
alone.” Which yarn suggested Peacock as a person
whose cunning had forsaken him. Had he, whilst
bluntly admitting that the girl came to him to
procure abortion, declared that her object was about to
be arrived at by natural accidental means before he
took her in charge, and that his treatment was
merely protective to her life, rather than
destructive to another life, and that she subsequently
died, and he destroyed her remains, because he was
afraid, in the light of his professional character, of
being charged with a crime which he did not actu-
ally commit —had he thus pleaded innocence, the
jury could hardly have convicted the old man. As it
was,_ the jury found him guilty, without passing an
opinion on the uncorroborated allegation of his hav-
ing said that he chloroformed the girl into eternal
silence.
An apparently undeniable circumstance connected
with the patient’s death was the fall she sustained
whilst foolishly venturing to walk along a corridor,
with two steps in it, by her poor, weak self.
Patients in Peacock's private hospital were appar-
ently at liberty to do any risky thing that would
spare the attendants a little trouble. It is quite
possible that the fall killed Mary Davies —that she
was recovering from the operation when she left her
bed “on her own,” and that she was fatally injured
internally when the hospital attendants, summoned
bv her cries, helped her back to bed again.
On this old Peacock was a man who mie-’W
have had half a loaf of semi-exculpation, but went for
the whole loaf of complete acquittal, and got no
bread—at least up till time of writing he had got
none.
4.
I rime Minister Fisiier last week delivered
the budget of a boom harvest. Over 90
million bushels of wheat were reaped, as
against 44 millions in 1908 and 12 millions
in 1903 an average of 13| bushels to the
acre, compared with 9$ bushels in the pre-
vious eight years. And those wheat figures
supply a faithful index to the condition of
every other rural industry. The man, then,
who relies upon a repetition of last year’s
figures for even so much as one other year
must have come in by the last boat from a
land where statistics are unknown, and the
law of averages has never been heard of.
That a year which was estimated to produce
£16,541,629 of Commonwealth revenue
actually produced £1,902,244 more, is not so
much a reflection on Andrew Fisher’s
guessing as it is a proof of the remarkable
way in which Australia can beat its own
averages when the conditions are favorable.
Unfortunately, the country, or anything else
which can beat its own average by much, is
also pretty certain to be, at other times,
badly beaten by its own average; and for
that reason a fool at the Treasury in, or
immediately after, an exceptional year, is
liable to be a disaster. Under the circum-
stances, Australia is at present in some
luck to have a Treasurer and Prime Min-
ister whose front name is Andrew, and
who brought it from Scotland. In fact, if
he were more Andrew and more Scotch it
would be an advantage.
♦
Paul has again written an Epistle, and this
time it is a vigorous affair. The latest Paul
is a Scotch expert wno was appointed to re-
port and advise upon the iron and steel in-
dustry of N.S.W., together with its prospects
and a number of side issues. Naturally, his
inquiries took him to Lithgow, the centre of
the N.S.W. iron-industry, and brought him
up against C. H. Hoskins, the gentleman
whose employees are now on strike. As the
Hoskins firm has large contracts with the
N.S.W. Government, it was absolutely im-
possible to avoid contact with it. Paul, who
has written the new Epistle about the
Boeotians, says he found C. H. Hoskins a
difficult and cantankerous man to get on with
—in fact, he reckons that Hoskins was un-
civil. That isn’t a new charge by any
means; the incivility of Hoskins has been
alleged as the cause of a heap of trouble at
Lithgow. The rest of Paul’s document is a
series of blasting assurances re apparent cor-
ruption and positive muddle, and about
losses made by the Government in conse-
quence thereof. To these Hoskins has re-
plied in a trenchant fashion, so at least one
of Paul’s numerous correspondences have
been answered. Meanwhile, a large section
of Australia, depending for its iron supply
upon Private Enterprise as represented by
Hoskins, isn’t getting much iron to speak
of. There wouldn’t be anything like suffi-
cient iron even if the Hoskins establish-
ment worked smoothly, and the Hoskins
establishment seems to have a habit of not
working smoothly. Whatever may be the re-
sult of further inquiry into Paul’s Epistle
against Hoskins, and Hoskins’ counter
charges against Paul, the need for State
iron works, which has always been urgent,
is now a trifle more urgent tnan usual.
The Old Soldier: —
“Locust” discourses (B. 20/1/T1) about the
mad Italian adventure in Tripoli, but he has omitted
to record the portentous series of Italian failures
that marked the history of the 19th century. There
was the war of Liberation of 1848, in which
Charles Albert, of Sardinia, and his generals man*
< aged to commit almost every imaginable military
fault. Then there was the war of ’59, in which the
Italians, though consistently beaten when they went
to work on their own, profited by the two French
victories of Magenta and Solferino, gained by the
determined bravery of the French soldiers and the
wooden inertness of the Austrian General Gyulai.
It is hard to say whether the result of the war was
more disgraceful to the. generals or the diplomatists,
for Lombardy was acquired in exchange for Savoy
and Nice, given to Napoleon as a bribe. In the
war of ’66 the Italians on land went down at
Custozza before a smaller Austrian army. Only
one brigade of cavalry was seriously engaged, but
the Italian army went entirely to pieces. But at
least the Italian Government believed they could
rely on their fleet, “which contained in its armament
all the latest improvements which the modern art
of war had up to that time invented. The Re
d’ltalia and the Re di Portogallo each carried two
9-inch Armstrong guns, 10 heavy shell-guns, and 24
rifled guns firing elongated projectiles we'ghing
991 b.” That is from the “Professional Papers of
the Royal Engineers,” and here is a summary from
the same source of the condition of the Austrian
navy at the time: “The Austrian ships, rudely built,
rudely armored, were only protected by plates not
over 4fin. thick, and armed with guns of an old
type, of which the largest were smooth-bores which
only threw a solid shot weighing 661 b.”
The powerful Italian fleet was rushed- by the
much inferior Austrian sauadron coming round from
the naval port at Pola. The Austrians attacked in a
headlong fashion, and utterly routed the Dadoes, in
spite of their great superiority, sinking the flagship,
and another ironclad, and driving the rest of the
fleet into Ancona for safety.
After that there was the downfall in Abyssinia,
and now, barring the chance of outside assistance, or
the breaking out of dissensions among the enemy, the
tragedy of Tripoli is getting ready. About 108 years
ago, a wild Yankee person invaded Tripoli witli a
mixed host of 500 men. These adventurers did a
fearsome tramp . across the desert from Egypt.
They battered in the Tripolitan back door before the
dusty old black country knew what had hit it, and
stole the ash barrel out of Tripoli’s back yard, and
chased the cat up the chimney. But Italy never
has that kind of luck, somehow.
Calls, and a Chorus.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Calls!
Loud, long, insistent calls.
Do you not hear thetnV
Many moons have waxed flhd waned, cam-
erados, since last I spoke to you!
It is now full time to Call your attention to
w’liat is happening round you. Is it not
time ?
Do you not hear 'the call?
Who calls?
Spring calls, and the Voice of young Sum-
mer repeats the call ; I hear, too, the
call of the Bottle-oil!
Is not that the call of the Ice-Cream Man,
camerados'!
Hark! the call of falling waves, and of
dashing waters, green and silver, laving
the pale broffne Of the rocks and the
creamy Sands!
Again sounds by the Sed the murmur of the
neglected bait, pefishing in the strong-
grip of the .Stiff f
A trumpet at night I hear ; it is not blown
from tile Walls of Tripoli!
It is the challenge of the übiquitous, auda-
cious and edaciblis Mosquito.
Who calls?
Irritating, stridulant call—it is the Ac-
cursed Instrument, camerados!
“Give me Five Oh Four Oh Three! . . . .
Are you there? , . . . What Number?
.... This is Nine Four Three. . . .
Engaged ! . . . D- ! Purp-purp-
purp-purp! No ! I want . . Br-rrrp!
Zizzzzz! . . . // /”
Who calls?
It is the call of One sitting above Debate
and Contention—
Order ! Order!
Vainly he calls, camerados, vainly he calls!
Until, calling unto him One Who Must
Sometimes Be Obeyed, he saitli: “Ser-
geant, heave forth the lamentable Boy-
fighter!” Who hath him forth.
Who calls?
Divers calls and ulhlations are sounding:
Calls from the high gods, and from the
lesser divinities of the Stadium:
In the gloom of midnight, are lawns and
flower-beds vocal with the passionate
vows of Romeo Felis.
“Mar-ia ! Mar-ia l 1 * Is it not sweet, cam-
erados ?
Anon, in the murk and the stillness cometh
Maria, calling:
“Ro-mee-ow ! Ro-mee-ow ! Callest thou
Me? Ow„ Ro-mee-ow/”
Hear you not also the cry of the Wild Cat,
calling the Call of the wild —of the
D -d Wild, camerados?
“Notice is hefopy given that a Call (the
Fourteenth), of Two-and-Sixpence (2s.
Gd.) pef sattfe” .. .
Who calls?
It is the Call io the Bar. “What’s yours?”
cameradosf
It is the Call from Above: “Brethren, I
leave you} not for the larger salary,
but to ffb the work of the Husband-
man.,”
And, now, who calls?
One who never called in vain; it is the
voice of . Uncle calling to his Nephews.
Nephew MCGowen, nephew Murray,
nephew Ward, nephew Verran, nephew
DenHAM, and the others.
“Veil, voi; is idt dis time, pops? Dere is
£300.000.000 on dot IO U alretty, py
Jimihny!”
Listenjjgain, camerados! Hear the nephews
caning:
“Undid! . . . Bear old XJncle! . . .
It's only a little one, this time, Uncle! . . .
Only £5,000,000, Uncle!
Entirely reproductive, Uncle!
I assure you, Uncle, that the ivories will he
quite adamantine in their perman-
ency! . . .
My good Uncle, just look at the security!
We’ve got absolutely the greatest
Future. . . .
Remember our magnificent natural race-
horses, Uncle!” . . .
Who Calls?
“Py Crikey, poys, I to n't like idt all righd,
vot?”
“Oh, it’s all right, Uncle!” . . .
“Bere is £300,000,000 oudt, und all dis
Peace establishment —rich is vorse dan
Var! Vot’s der inderest?” . . .
Who Calls?
Hark !
A chorus, camerados, a chorus! Hear the
Nephews chorusing:
“Money was made to spin, my lads!
Raving's a thing that palls;
Back to the loans of our dear old Bads —
Back to the old Three Balls!”
N.S.W.
O. C. CABOT.


TO RUN A SUCCESSFUL
MOVING PICTURE SHOW
YOU REQUIRE
Ist. A reliable prjjection machine.
2nd. The Best and Most Reliable Film
Service in Australia.
3rd, To Trade with a Firm who will
Give You Prompt Attention and
Study Your Interests.
PLACE YOUR ORDERS WITH US,
and you will get satisfaction.
THE LEADING CINEMATOGRAPHIC
& PHOTOGRAPHIC MERCHANTS
SYDNEY
ADELAIDE
MELBOURNE
AUCKLAND
i
I™
Kexona.
The Rapid Healer is an Ointment which heals
with remarkable rapidity. Unlike the old-fashioned
ointments, which are very ,slow in their action,
Rexona speedily relieves after a very few applica-
tions. Sold in triangular pots at Is. 6d. and 3s.*
! Write for particulars of the
Kelvin Generating Set for cheap electric
lighting. Jerdan’s Ltd., 393 George Street,
Sydney.
FROM AUSTRALIA TO AUSTRALIA.
Direct from FACTORY to YOU.
No need to dicker with “JOBBERS.”
Direct from AUSTRALIA to AUSTRALIA.
No need to bother about dealing with
factories thousands of miles away.
Direct supnly of DUPLICATE PARTS.
Direct GUARANTEE. We guarantee our en-
gines for FIVE YEARS, and WE are HERE to
hack up our guarantee with our great works at
Woolwich.
When you want an r 'il Engine, therefore, deal
direct with us, the MAKERS. We can give you
a VERY WIDE RANGE OF CHOICE as to
TYPES and POWERS—that is to say, we can
supply your needs ACCURATELY, a thing often
very difficult with the JOBBER who has only
one type of engine, and perhaps only a limited
stock on hand.
BUY AN “INVINCIBLE”—the DIRECT Engine.
Invincible Motor Construction Co., Ltd. Head
Office and Works, Woolwich Dock, Sydney. Show-
rooms, 35 Pitt Street. And at Melbourne and
Adelaide.
Franz Josef
Lager Beer
SparKling,
Refreshing',
Exhilarating
and Pure.
Franz Josef possesses the true Lager quality
and character, being sharp, clean, and of
light gravity.
If by any chance Prime Minister Fisheb
finds himself with two minutes and a pound
or two to spare, it might not be amiss if he
spent the former in rushing at Hoskins, of
the Lithgow (N.S.W.) ironworks, with the
latter in his hand, and endeavoring to make
a purchase on fair terms. The Common-
wealth Government will require a vast
hmount of iron and steel soon for military
and railway-building purposes, and when it
takes over the entire railway systems of
Australia, which it can’t do too soon, it will
require a lot more. It will need a dozen
ironworks in various parts of Australia,
and it might as well get one to start with.
The Lithgow situation is interesting enough
regarded as melodrama. There is the strike
and the release of Dixon. Then there is
Paul’s report, in which he represents the
N.S.W. Government Departments as very
slow-witted and mud-headed institutions
with an amazing capacity for falling into
holes and being taken in. There is also
Hoskins’s indignant refutation or confuta-
tion or obliteration of Paul. Further, a
public official has been suspended, and a
shriek of newspaper correspondence has
arisen, with letters from old friends like
“Lover of Justice,” “Pro Bono Publico”
and “Mother of Hundreds.” These matters
are full of thrill, but they can’t be thrown
with any effect at an enemy should one
chance to land. That is where the trouble
comes in, and if the State officials have the
larg> incapacity which Paul’s report seems
to infer, then it is time some other set of
officials took a hand.
«
The book of the prophet “Bloggs” :
Immediately the figures for the N.S.W. by-elec-
tions were published, the greater portion of David
Storey s ‘Democratic” party turned round, and, in
a. manner of speaking, upper-cut “Liberalism”
hard with both hands, and kicked it in the stomach,
there is something particularly humorous about the
gyrations of this party. When things first began to
look black with Wade, the Democrats suddenly de-
veloped Labor leanings. The more Wade blundered the
more Laboristic the Democratics grew. Prior to, and
during last general election, they spumed “Liberal-
ism like the dirt beneath their feet, and as a result
got a lot of Labor support. In Parliament they
were as Laborite as could be, for a while. Then
Horne and Dunn resigned; Nielsen gave up his
portfolio, and it looked as though Labor was in for
trouble. In the most statesmanlike fashion Storey
and his fellow-patriots promptly reverted to “Liber-
alism.” Not a word was heard about the curse of
party politics. They became as docile as week-old
pups. But during the Speakership riots they began
dimly to suspect once more that there was something
rotten in the state of WADE-ism. They did so little
in the anti-WiLLis way of business, that certain
right-thinking “Liberals,” who had borne the heat
and blanky of the fray, and fairly wearied themselves
in the good work of aiming missiles at the Speaker’s
head and so forth, began to darkly hint that they
were anti-“ Liberal” at heart. And now about 80 per
cent, of the party has confirmed Wade's worst tears.
The name that an edified public knows this amaz-
ingly agile crowd by nowadays is the Acrobatic
Party.
Another piece of the Wade Government’s
legislation has been receiving half-suppressed
hoots from the Judges who are called upon
to make use of it. This is the N.S.W. Work-
ers’ Compensation Act, which was packed
through Parliament in August, 1910, when
the then imminent general elections were
overhanging the country. The measure was
rushed into position to build up bulwarks
against the Labor assault, but, as the time
was short, it was copied hurriedly from the
English Act of 1897, and dumped down re-
gardless of the weaknesses discovered in it by
English Courts. By its provisions, compen-
sation was to be forthcoming for a slain
worker, when _ (a) dependents were left
wholly depending on his earnings, or (b)
when partially ditto; but the Act
omitted to allow for compensation to
dependents under Section b when there
were also dependents under Section a.
The flustered Wade, in 1910, didn’t know
that in 1906 the error in the English Act
was righted by an Amending Act, and
N.S.W. Judges have held that the omission
in the local legislation has resulted in grave
hardship where dependents were partially
supported by a subsequently killed worker.
Now, Parliament will have to get busy again
and tinker up another of Wade’s 'blunders.
«
The N.S.W. “Liberal” press exposed itself
as the usual rotten prophet, political guide
and tactician in connection with the recent
by-elections. For example, the S. M.
Herald published these items on the three
days preceding the polls:
Mr. Perry is a popular candidate ... if effort
is not relaxed, the seat may be regarded as almost
a certainty for Liberalism. . . .
In Liverpool Plains, also, the Speakership must
necessarily loom large. Throughout the length and
breadth of the country, indeed, the occupancy of the
Parliamentary chair is in these days a subject of
such unfailing notoriety that the Government stands
irremediably condemned by reason of it alone.
The closer we come to the end of the contest the
more vital does the attitude of these two electorates
on which so serious a duty is cast, appear to be.
The Government might have discounted this aspect
of the matter by an absolutely definite pledge to dis-
solve by a given date. They have failed to do so,
and only one inference can be drawn.
Immediately after the contest, Henley,
M.L.A., and other “Liberals” hastened to
point out that the wretched Perry was in
no sense a popular candidate, but one who
was “out of stride” with the electors. Liver-
pool Plains, with an anti-“ Liberal” majority
of about 500 waiting to declare itself, was
not “almost a certainty for Liberalism.”
And the unwisdom- of the official organ of
“Liberalism” in announcing that the main
issues at Liverpool Plains were the Speaker-
ship and the question of an early dissolu-
tion, is now apparent. “Liberalism’s” chosen
arbiter has declared in the most decisive
fashion that it approves of Willis and all
his deeds, and has no wish for the dissolu-
tion which the S. M. Herald has been de-
manding for months.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Hrr Majesty's “ The Chocolate Soldier.
Hoyal “ Alias Jimmy Valentine.”
Criterion “The Girl in the Train.”
Adklphi “ Sweet County Kerry.”
Palace “ Beauty and the Baige.”
Lyceum Spencer’s Pictures.
Tivoli Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
National Amphitheatre Brennan’s Vaudeville Co.
Lyric Continuous Pictures.
Colonial (Nos. 1 &2) .. Continuous Pictures.
Alhambra Continuous Pictures.
Glaciarium West’s Pictures.
Victoria Continuous Pictures.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “The Swiss Express.”
Her Majesty’s Melba Grand Opera Co.
U°yal “ Lady Frederick.”
IN0 ’ 8 “ Tne Midnight Wedding-.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville
Glaciarium Tails’ Pictures.
West’s Palace West’s Pictures.
Olympia Spencer’s Pictures
Lyric, Prahran Photo Plays.
Atiien/Eijm Hall Joseph Blascheck.
Esplanade, St. Kilda.. The Follies.
It is always the other fellow who is the
rogue. When the parson promises Hell for
dishonesty, the milkman looks across at the
grocer and thinks of sand, while the grocer
looks across at the milkman and thinks of
water. So they are both perfectly happy,
and put the usual thruppence in the plate.
Or, if the milkman is particularly interested
in the grocer’s evil ways he may put in six-
pence, in recognition of the parson’s dutiful
conduct in preaching against sand. The
grocer may also drop in the doubtful shilling
with the hole in it, knowing quite well, of
course, that a dutiful preacher had the milk-
swmdler in his mind. All that happens,
therefore, is that the parson is a shilling or
eighteenpence to the good. The man who
adapted B. Pshaw’s “Arms and the Man ”
and turned it into “The Chocolate Soldier!’’
now on view at Her Majesty’s (Sydney),
seems to have been trained for that sort of
parson. He pulls the military’s leg, cer-
tainly, but he extends woman’s limb still
harder. Delightful satire on the soldier'”
says the woman. “Gad! what a fool he
makes the woman look!” says the soldier,
thus Pshaw, Ltd., enjoys the pleasure of
pulling two legs without being kicked in re-
turn by either.
* * * #
Alexius Spiridoff is the soldier who be-
comes a hero because his horse bolted and
took him up to the enemy’s guns, which,
happening to have been served with the
wrong ammunition, couldn’t enter into any
argument on their own behalf. In this way,
Alexius,. having been followed by a company
which didn t know that he was charging be-
cause he couldn’t help it, captured the artil-
lery and the glory. Having thus manufac-
tured the shoddy hero-goods, Pshaw, Ltd.
to justify itself, had also to supply the fool-
customers. Nadina and Maschina are the
result. Of course, one would be enough ; but
1 shaw, Ltd., saw that it would never do to
marry the nicest girl to the Brummagem
hero; so the firm had to invent another cus-
tomer who didn’t matter so much. Yet as
Nadina, the nicest girl, had to be married to
somebody before the stalls went to supper,
Lieut. Bumerli, the chocolate soldier, had
also to be invented. Bumerli, being Swiss,
is in the commissariat department, and
carries caramels where other men carry
cartridges. On the well-known maxim
that a commissariat lieut. in the hand is
worth two cavalry capts. in the field, Bu-
merli is made pretty comfortable straight
away, and, having only the egotistical bogus
hero as a competitor, finally wins in a can-
ter, though only Pshaw, Ltd., and Provi-
dence know how matters would have ended
if some other trousered person—say, a pro-
duce broker’s clerk—had dropped into the
running. Anyhow, as Leslie Gaze plays the
choc, soldier, tfiere is no particular reason
why the nicest girl should fall in love with
him. Still, who knows? —that may be
Gaze’s subtle way of suggesting that the
onlooker can never tell why any nicest girl
ever falls in love with anybody.
* * * *
This nicest girl, whom even Pshaw, Ltd.,
dare not marry to the nastiest man, has a
very great deal of work to do; and Miss
Winifred O’Connor does it surprisingly well.
In fact, we might have to go back to the
days of “Veronique” and Miss Margaret
Thomas for a parallel. Oscar Strauss, the
composer, helps her, no doubt—-helps her, in
particular, as an early course, to a charm-
ing song with a characteristic Strauss
waltz refrain, and, later on, to a
sugary duet with Gaze. But, for gen-
eral effect, not fling at Her Majesty’s is
better than the “Letter Song”; that and the
subsequent duet with the breezy, spontane-
ous Gaze make the best quarter-hour of the
whole show. Among the others, there is the
bogus hero, Noel Fleming, with a tenor
voice like ripe pears (and, on Saturday
night, you wanted to chloroform an often
blatant orchestra while you tasted him) ;
and Miss Graham, who is Mascha, sprightly,
but repeatedly submerged under the waves
of the tempestuous orchestra before men-
tioned ; and Miss Presano, the nicest girl’s
mother, whose mezzo-contralto was fre-
quently strong enough to drown the orches-
tra already alluded to, though not to drown
it as dead as it deserved ; and Albert Kav-
anagh, who might make much more of Pop-
off, the most ancient sinner of them all. The
chorus work is excellent, and so is Goat-
cher’s.
“Sweet County Kerry” is the Adelphi’s
most emphatic success to date. There is
more humor to the square inch in it than
there were bloodstains to the square yard in
all the Marlowdramas that preceded it; and
jokes are much more entertaining than
bloodstains—except when they appear in the
evening papers. Allen Doone and Edna
Iveeley are the principals, and they bring
Ireland with them. Most alleged Irish plays
consist of fat, able-bodied Cockneys, wiio
say “begorra” and “bedad” ; but this one is
different. Its plot is built upon the disturb-
ance of 1798 —a strenuous time, before gal-
lant colonels and others discovered the art
of using books and water bottles in their
political arguments. As Dan O'Hara, Allen
Doone is an irrepressible Irishman of the
type Andrew Mack used to present; and like
Mack, he warbles in a light tenor voice.
Edna Iveeley, as Nora Drew, although her
brogue has a Yankee flavor, won the first
bouquet this paper has seen at the Adelphi.
C. R. Stanford, the meanest man in Kerry,
is the harmless, necessary villain; and Cecil
Farnham (a gentleman rider), Tom Buckley
(Major Drew, one of the “ould sort”),
Frank Cullenane (Patrick Drew, who hates
races) and Murmur (the Caulfield Cup win-
ner) help to make the best cast the Adelphi
has had. Then there are jiggetty Irish
music and Irish songs, fresh from the sugar
mill.
** * *
Clark and Hamilton, who supply about
half a programme between them, came back
to the Tivoli last Saturday, to play a brief
farewell season, and, assist the other people
of the bill to hold up’ the box office. The un-
hopeful Mayo is still reluctantly delighting
the patrons, who seem to regard him as a
sort of insolvent undertaker who has been
driven out of his rightful job, and forced to
make jokes for a living instead of coffins.
The swimming Finneys provide the ideal
summer turn with their crystal tank. Zel-
ini’s juggling act is another cool item ; and
Albert Rees’ imitations are restful. The
dancing of Armstrong and Kelly, Daly and
O’Brien, and the Saxony pair is crisp and
entertaining, but a trifle hot for these
breathless nights. In the summer, all
dancers should endeavor to infuse some
coolth into their fatiguing business. They
might get the desirable Antarctic effect by
stepping in sandpapered shoes on large
blocks of ice.
TIVOLI THEATRE ,
SYDNEY.
SAM MAVO—
GLOOM
EXPERT.
The Lyric this week screened “The Girl
Behind the Counter,” a play which was
staged with considerable success in Sydney
a little while back. “Pathe’s European Ga-
zette” pictured the usual collection of Euro-
pean topics; and “Rhododendron Culture”
was a good botanical study. At Colonial No. 1
“The Rose of Kentucky,” an American love
yarn, and “The Gaumont Graphic” were the
principal features. Motor-cars were manu-
factured on the Colonial No. 2 screen while
you waited. “The Fall of Troy,” “Clios and
Phyletes,” and “Pathe’s Australian Gazette”
were also included in an interesting pro-
gramme.
$* $ $
“The Silver King” disappears from the
stage of Sydney Royal after the per-
formance on Friday night. Saturday even-
ing sees the first performance of “Alias
Jimmy Valentine,” a dramatised version of
one of the late O. Henry’s short stories.
** * *
“Mrs. McSweeney,” with Maggie Moore
in the name part, will hold the stage for
Australia and Ireland, at the Criterion, till
Friday night. “The Girl in the Train” is
due to arrive with a melodious rush about
8 p.m. on Saturday, and it is expected that
a big crowd will be on hand to welcome her.
** * *
“The Witness for the Defence,” at Ade-
laide Royal, has upheld its reputation as a
good play well acted. Miss Irving goes her
own way, and even defies the advice that all
emotional actresses should heed: “Don’t
make a noise when you cry.” The end is a
shade weak, as in most of these strong
plays. The pleasant artificialities of “Lady
Frederick” are finishing the all-too-brief sea-
son. At the Exhibition, Tiny Town is un-
expectedly successful, day and night. One
Hayati Hassid, a Turk, is the “mayor” of
it, also editor and comedian. Juggling and
circus turns are given by all hands, the star,
perhaps, being Miss Hansi, who can sing,
ride barebacked and walk a wire, and is lia-
ble to trip over her own hair as she walks.
The Tivoli has strengthened its bill with
Recco (who proudly claims to be Ridicu-
lous) and Louie Tracy; also, Fred
Graham is giving a farcical “sketch.” At
the King’s are the graceful Margaret Klos,
Eva Mudge, quick-change artist; Banseen,
a “human ’cello" ; and Jules Garrison with
his Maids —much too pretty to be disguised
in the nigger sketch they have been giving.
Wondergraph (which is going to build a
hall for itself presently) puts up a strong
picture programme at the Town Hall,
West’s have thrilling things in “Zigomar,”
and W. S. Percy’s prize play, “All for
Gold”; and the Empire stars the Caulfield
Cup and a remarkable “Inferno” film. The
latter it wisely does not show at matinees.
Melbourne’s first night of the grand
opera season, at Her Majesty’s, was full of
golden promise for those many other nights
to come, when mere curiosity will be sated
and novelty will have lost its gloss. “La
Traviata” delighted everybody, seemingly.
There was no doubt as to the wisdom of the
management in opening the campaign with
Verdi’s musical version of an old familiar
drama, handsomely staged and dressed in
unfamiliar fashion. The audience’s first
impression was a fine advertisement for the
season. Musically considered, “Traviata”
is behind the times. Its orchestration is
trivial as compared with “The Chocolate
Soldier.” Its melodies are so bound in the
hackneyed sentimentality of the period that
the heavy father offers consolation to his
weeping son in the strain of a love-lorn
shepherd. But it appeals to the ear and
memory of the large number of persons who
want not too much tone-grandeur in grand
opera to begin with; also, it gives Melba
many opportunities to sing her sweetest, and
act as effectively as her present physical
limitations permit. Melba’s voice, on Satur-
day night, was practically the same organ—
distinctively beautiful —that one heard in
the same opera at the Princess’s nine years
ago. No speck, streak or flaw marred, its
smooth surface. If it had lost any color in
the meantime —well, the previous voice
wasn’t there to place beside it. In the first
act, the production was not effortless as of
old, but the result was as surely attained,
and thereafter, to the closing scene, the artist
sang so beseechingly, caressingly, plaintively
that the magic of her tones sometimes de-
ceived the eye, and a slim, consumptive
Camille appeared in place of a buxom prima
donna with the flour of pathos on her
cheeks. She was said to have surpassed her
ONE OF THE JOYS—IRVING SAYLES.
best recent warbling in Sydney. John
McCormack’s sweet, round tenor and plump
and pleasing personality harmonised Alfredo
with the lady of his passion. The top half
of McCormack in this character suggests a
“buck” of olden time, and he is as quaintly
decorative in his way as Miss Buckman’s
smiling Flora. Miss Williams and one or
two Italian strangers gave good value to
small parts, and Scandiani scored a notable
first success as the heavy father; but Rufus
Ferguson, as an alleged Baron in a terra
cotta misfit, was the least grand operatic
figure that the eye of an orchestral conduc-
tor ever gleamed upon. There is little
enough for the bulk of the orchestrions to do
in “Traviata,” nor does the fine chorus go
for much, except in spectacular effect, but
conductor Angelini got a loud burst of ad-
miration when Melba hauled him into the
midst of a genuine furore.
If “Samson” fell somewhat short of Mel-
bourne’s highest expectations, the opera was
not much injured in the fall. Sandwiched
between a fine orchestra and a gaudy spec-
tacle, the vocalism seems rather thin. The
mezzo of Cisneros lacks force even as the
robust tenor of Zeni lacks richness,
whilst Burke’s pleasant basso cries for
better opportunities than his high priestly
music affords. But the singing is the least
of the three considerations. The perform-
ance, as a whole, is interesting, and it gains
admiration as it proceeds. At the outset,
the composer is always striving ,to strike
biblical chords of music, the result being
impressively dull. Also, the audience is
sorry to find that the nice Hebrew maidens
are wasting their companionship on a few
ugly old bearded men of their chosen race.


STECK
New Shipments of STECKS monthly in
Burl Walnut, Circassian Walnut, Rosewood,
Mahogany, Waxed Oak, Ebony, In Art Cases.
One of the World’s
Great PIANOS.
You can strike the keys of an ordinary
piano as hard as you please, but the tones
will not answer like those of the STECK.
The carrying quality is not there, and that
makes one point of difference between the
ordinary instrument and the STECK.
The STECK Piano is adapted to the
nlayiag of pieces requiring great technique,
because it has not only the carrying power
but also a scale of remarkable evenness and
a tone of characteristic purity.
You should call at PIANOLA-HALL, and
see the STECK if you are interested in
good pianos. We can take your old piano
in part payment.
THE PIANOLA COMPANY
PROPY. LTD.,
357 George Street,
SYDNEY
(next David Jones’).
88 Rundle Street,
ADELAIDE.
252 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE
(on The Block).
311 Oueen Street,
BRISBANE
(opp. Q. N. Bank).
London, Paris, Berlin and New York.
Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
*
FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED.
PITT AND KING STREETS, SYDNEY.
ACCIDENT, EMPLOYERS' LIABILITY, PLATE GLASS, Etc.
Lowest Rates Charged.
’Phone No. 236 Central.
Settlements Prompt and Equitable.
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman.
G. HOWARD POPE, Manaj
The Household Disinfectant
Carbolacene
Cleanses and Disinfects in One Act.
Pint Bottles, jfl }
Sold Everywhere.
From the moment when Delilah enters, at-
tended by 1C festive Philistine flappers, and
makes eyes and attitudes at Samson, the
success of the opera is assured. The second
act deals mainly with the historical weak-
ness oi the strong man as regards the lady,
and the last scene of the third act is full of
bright singing girls and ballets that Samson
would have loved to look upon if the Phil-
istines had spared him his sight. Miss
Elliott, who figures as chief dancer, is a
charming item. Finally, the thought of
what he is missing grows too painful for
Samson. Moreover, Delilah taunts him by
offering him wine from an empty goblet. So
he gets himself conducted by a sweetly in-
telligent kiddy to one of the back pillars of
the temple which trembles with emotion as
he touches it. When he pushes the pillar,
the lignts go out, and the last of the opera
is an orchestral crash of doom and a dim
suggestion of the 16 flappers lying crushed
upon the temple floor. After which, Cis-
neros, Zeni. Burke and the conductor bow
their acknowledgments many times. “Faust”
comes on Monday and “Carmen” on Tues-
day. To-night (Thursday), the second
“Butterfly” performance is due; to-mor-
row brings Melba in “Bohhme”; and on
Cup night, probably, another opera will
drop into the bill,
A new brand of entertainment — i.e., new
to Australia —will be unpacked at the Prin-
cess’s on Saturday (4th). Marlow, by ar-
rangement with the J.C.W. firm, is staging
"The Swiss Express,” which is musical
comedy-eim-panto. Every other country
worth mentioning lias seen this piece of
hustle at one time or other, and a numerous
co.. with a bright leading lady, has been im-
ported to rush it; through the land we live
in.
At; the Athemeum Hall, the gentle drol-
leries of Blaseheck and the songs of Miss
Wrigliton continue to make up a neat little
show which has no title. Blaseheck lapses
into seriousness sometimes, and the lady
turns her voice to Gounod's Serenade; but;,
as a rule, their moods range from light to
frivolous, and for more than two hours they
carefully refrain from being dull.
At the King’s, a worried Miss Duggan
resorts to matrimony-six nights a week, al-
ways with Boy Bedgrave, whilst Father J.
11. Nunn stands for the Voice that Breathed
O’er Eden. “The Midnight Wedding” is a
marriage of convenience; Miss Duggan is
not led to the altar; she rushes to it, to
avoid being dragged there later. Bather
than wed a man whom she does not love,
she marries one whom she does not know.
When she does get to know him (eight days
later), of course, she loves him for his curly
hair and drawing-room manners, The Wed-
ding in question has proved more popular
than a number of other nocturnal crimes
which have happened at the King’s, and the
male members of the co. will probably con-
tinue to spread themselves in gaudy mili-
tary duds until after the Cup.
At the Glaciarium (Melb.).last week, the
Taits unreeled a long photo drama of “The
Double Event,” adapted by W. J. Lincoln.
This up-to-date local production seems in-
tended to educate the guileless in the ways
of horses and the wiles of villains. Of Taits'
other ehusions, “Snowbound with a Woman-
Hater” contains some good situations; while
“The Worries of a Wealthy Widow” is
crowded with farce of a heavy kind. “A
Mexican Joan of Arc ” is mostly a moving
picture of boozing, slaughter and other
national Greaser industries.
“The Cross,” which ran at Melbourne
Olympia last Saturday night, is Spencer’s
latest addition to improving literature. Up-
held by a priest in a very strong light, the
Christian symbol achieves a marvellous act
of reformation. “That Dare Devil,” a
comic film, calls attention to the complex
pleasures of being a hero ; _ and “O’er Hill
and Dale,” a scenic item, is the Dauphine
Alps in a packet of views. Also good is
“The Parting Trails,” a tale of violent con-
trasts and a sad, sad end.
On Saturday night 11. B. Irving robbed
“The Lyons Mail” at Melbourne lioyal. The
ancient French bellowdrammer, which is
furnishing the last spasms of Irving’s sea-
son, is the most popular thing he has staged
by Yarra’s banks. It is pervaded by a
genial odor of brandy, and helped along by
a couple of comic relief characters, played
on broad lines by Arthur Whitby and Tom
Beynolds. Irving’s impersonation of Du-
bose is not as bad as the character itself;
and his Lesurques is merely his gentlemanly
self masquerading in fancy dress. Miss
Irene Browne is a decorative episode as
Lesurques’s daughter, Julie; but her grand-
papa, as played by Frank Tyars, is
a rather noisy old gentleman, trou-
bled in his bronchial tubes. Miss Dorothea
Baird’s Jeanette appears to suffer from a
severe stitch ; so also does her Mary Cave,
in “A Maid of Honor,” the unaccountable
playlet which precedes the major disturb-
ance. Next’Saturday the Boyal will acquire
a more reposeful Irving, in the person of
Miss Ethel, who is reviving “Lady Ireder-
ick” for the Cup. And Lady F. is a de-
lightful woman of this wicked world who
cannot be revived too much.
** * *
At the Opera ! House, on Saturday last,
the Bulletin made the acquaintance ot
the Four Kasracs. There are three ener-
getic Misses Kasrac, who tumble about in a
most strenuous manner, and indulge in mu-
tual assault and battery ; and a Mr. Kasrac,
who does the same, only more so. Harry
Allister, the impersonator, continues to as-
sume the wigs and whiskers that have made
history, and the Reeces have introduced a
fresh color-shriek into their costuming. J. F.
Ling, who is likeable, but hardly improves
upon acquaintance, is about to depart.
There are others whose departure seems less
imminent, but about whom this paper re-
fuses to become enthusiastic.
“THE MIDNIGHT
WEDDING,"
MELBOURNE
KING’S.
J. H. Nunn performs the
midnight wedding.
Bert Bailey goes to
make love.
This generation has not lived in vain, see-
ing that it has witnessed the declaration of a
Cmnese republic with President Ilung at the
head of affairs. So far, the republicans seem
to have carried everything before them, and
the Manchu dynasty has all the signs of a
concern that is rapidly going to the dogs.
The last straw, lately added to its load of
degradation, was the refusal of one of its
leading generals to fight because he
had sore feet. Probably he meant cold
feet. Even at this early stage of affairs,
there are rumors of Japanese intervention,
which would, of course, mean a reach out for
more plunder. And the prospect of a grow-
ing Jap empire on its border might easily
compel the Bear, in sheer self-defence, to try
another fall with his old friend the Monkey,
and see if this time he couldn’t swing him
round by the tail, and bump his cranium
against the wall. Possibly President Hung
has lighted a bigger fire than he is aware of.
Anyhow, amid all these chances, it is pleas-
ing to reflect that the first Australian war-
ship has been launched, yet if the armament
of the Watson’s Bay ferry boat were only
in better condition this country would feel
safer than it does.
The conviction of old Dr. Peacock for
the alleged obliteration of Mary Davies
drew this comment from Melbourne Age :■ —
If the medical profession lent itself to malpractice,
FEMALE VIRTUE WOULD ALMOST CEASE TO EXIST. So
easy would it be to get rid of the consequences of
sin, etc.
Well, the medical profession does lend it-
self considerably to malpractice, else there
would be no Peacocks. As for the ease
with which “the consequences of sin” can
be got rid of when the medical profession
puts its ears back and gets on the job in
dead earnest, ouite a lot of doctors have
been hanged because of the shameful
muddle they made in getting rid of
quences. Crippen was the last. And as re-,
'gards the Age’s theory that there would be
practically no female virtue left if abortion
was sufficiently cheap and easy, this writer
won’t argue. He leaves the Age to the fury
of its justly incensed maiden aunt.
Borne utterly mean and disreputable per-
son lately crawled by night into the
Women Painters’ Exhibition in Pitt-street,
Sydney, and badly damaged four pictures.
The Evening News stated that “a stout
hairpin was picked up on the floor, which,
it is believed, was used to do the damage.”
That seemed to imply that the floor was the
weapon employed, but the News probably
meant the hairpin. The inference is that
the unwholesome deed was done by a female,
or else by a male who desired to leave the
impression that he was a female. That is
about as far as the inquiry has got.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“On the Spot”: Chapel-street, richest of Mel-
bourne’s suburban shopping thoroughfares, has now
two picture theatres, within half a mile of one
another. The Lyric, which was opened about a
vear ago, is in the. Prahran section of the street,
whereas the Royal, opened more recently, is
opposite the Windsor rajway station; but, seeing
that Windsor is included in the . Prahran municipal
radius, the two theatres carry the same suburban
label. Each of them will seat some 2000 picture-
gazers. The newer one has wider margins of stand-
ing room, and a bigger entrance hall, than the
other. With another new theatre —in St. Kilda —•
situated not more than three-quarters of a mile to
the west of Windsor Royal, and with all three of
them on the tram route, and close to a railway
station, it only remains for South ,Yarra to raise a
picture theatre near its railway station on the
Toorak-road, and then all the districts on the gilded
side of the river will be practically cut off from
Melbourne city district as regards flickergraph en-
tertainment. It follows, as night follows day •
Feloniously speaking—that south suburban residents
will save the extra cost in cash and time involved
by taking themselves and family all the way to
town to see pictures, when they can get served as
well, or better, at a local establishment. The de-
centralisation of the flickergraph trade proceeds
apace in the Victorian capital. Brunswick, a “work-
ing-man’s suburb,” will have a second theatre
presently, bigger than the one lately opened. And
both of them will flourish. Every populous suburb
can support one or two big picture houses, for a
good Saturday night audience pays the whole of a
week’s exes. The pictures are doing more than
supply a want. They are increasing the want, and
are giving it a distinctly suburban character. The
writer, as an old show-goer, speaks from careful
observation and personal inclination. The public
might have tired of going to biograph shows, under
the old, troublesome conditions. And by “the pub-
lic” is meant even the large proportion of it that
rarely, or never, patronises a play, and the still
larger proportion that would never dream of taking
the kiddies to anything more dramatic than a panto.
The new conditions have put a different complexion
on the picture case. The “habit,” which was for-
merly acquired by degrees, is now forced upon
hundreds of thousands of suburban residents. It is
luxurious, where it formerly was troublesome. Pic-
ture theatres, nowadays, supply the most convenient
form of entertainment that the great bulk of Mel-
bourne’s population has ever known, and the cheapest
and the most generally satisfactory. This form of
entertainment has come Ho stay—in the suburbs.
“Cassandra” may predict disaster to all-day-long
shows in the city, if he has a prophetic soul, though
the signs of approaching dissolution are not yet
apparent. But if he had studied the conditions and
the clientele of a first-class suburban picture busi-
ness, he would recognise it as the natural healthy
offspring of its somewhat unnatural town-bred parent.
As for the all-day-long threepemnv show —it will not
be long lived. There is no health in it. It cannot
survive its novelty.
Lafayette, the famed entertainer who perished in
the fire at a Glasgow theatre, achieved the distinc-
tion of two funerals. For the purposes of his
illusions he employed a “double,” and it was this
man’s body that was mistaken for the original. The
day after it was buried as Lafayette, the real show-
man’s remains were found, and properly identified,
but fathoms of red tape had to be unwound before
the authorities would allow him to go and be interred
as himself.
“Vic”: Johnny Wallace, having scored 70, not out,
Melbourne amateurs are getting up a ben. for him,
mostly in return for his eminent services in produc-
ing amateur opera. Johnny claims to have been 60
years on the stage. He first emerged as stage-mana-
ger of Soldene’s 400 nights in “Genevieve de
Brabant,” at London’s tiny Philharmonic. He went
through America with the Soldenes, and so on to
Australia. It was then that Farley returned, im-
proved out of all knowledge. Thenceforward Wallace
was mostly connected with Australia, though for a
time he stage-managed for Musgrove, at the London
Shaftesbury, in the days of “The Scarlet Feather,”
with Nellie Stewart, and “The Belle of New York,”
with Edna May. I should say he ranks about next
to Coventry as a pantomime producer for these
parts.
“J.C.”: “Kobbi” (B. 19/10/’ll) is wrong in
asserting that “the only colleges which conduct
musical examinations are those that hang out their
shingles in Fogland.” The Melbourne and Adelaide
Universities hold exams, twice a year in every
grade. Examinations are also held in Tasmania, and
are to be held in Queensland under the same scheme.
These exams, are much stiffer than any of the
“Home” ones, and the standard required for honors
is very high, as it should be. There are numerous
exhibitions; one (open to all who obtain honors in
any grade) is tenable for three years at the Melb.
Uni. Conservatorium. These exams, are yearly be-
coming more successful, and the profit derived from
them goes towards founding fresh scholarships.
Albani, whose autobiography has just been pub-
lished in London, evidently wasn’t able to keep much
of the mint of money she must have made. Lat-
terly she has been singing at London suburban two-
houses-a-night halls —a big come-down from her
prima donna days, when she was the pet of Vic-
toria, Queen and Empress.
• “Theorbo”: A well-known figure passes from
Melbourne musical circles in Leandro Coy. He was
a Spaniard, but studied music in Italy, where he
sprang to considerable fame in opera, as a tenor, in
1803. I think his voice must have gone off a little
when he reached Australia, in 1871, for by that time
he was certainly nothing like so good as Rosnati, and
Beaumont would rank between ltosnati and Coy.
After a year or two in Italy Coy went to Spaiii,
where he had the luck to sing with the pretty,
gifted and amiable little Giulia Tamburini, niece
of the famous baritone. Coy and Giulia married.
The lady thereafter was known as Giulia Tamburini
Coy, and she and he were as nice a couple of love-
birds as could be wished. They whisked over the
whole continent; but affairs slackened, and they
thought it wise to join Cagli and Pompei’s large
company for India and “the East.” This company,
which found its way to Sydney in 1871, had no less
than four leading ladies: Zenoni, ltosavalle, Coy and
Cortesi, with Polli as contralto. The men included
Rosnati, Coy, Coliva, Grandi and Tournerie, to whom
Dondi was added. Lyster was amazed at tliis swoop.
He had just been in partnership with John Smith,
who, after a visit to Australia as a thin step-dancer,
returned as a fat entrepreneur, with a magnificent
Jap troupe of big tub men, jugglers, etc. —a crowd
that astounded Australia, having only been preceded
by Tanaker’s inferior company. Smith made so much
cash that he was enabled to partner with Lyster, in
fetching from Milan the opera company which in-
cluded Neri, Contini and Dondi, and Mesdames
Baratti and Chambers. Though there was a great
flourish of trumpets, the company did not draw
mightily, and Lyster was about full of grand opera
when the Cagli and Pompei troupe appeared without
any notification. Lyster soon perceived how much
better Italian impresarios could do than he could,
so he partnered with Cagli and Pompei. Mrs. Coy
was the chief favorite, but could not take the grand
roles like the somewhat faded Zenoni, nor could she
warble with such flexibility as Cortesi in “ r l he
Barber of Seville.” Rosnati was a very fine tenor
when he had not been eating. An enemy only bad
to give him a bushel of macaroni to spoil him ut-
terly.
“C. Ockney”: “The Whip” having at length been
relegated to the cold storage, I observe that some-
thing else —which does not necessarily mean some-
thing different —is now in the bills of “Old Drury.”
The latest Raleigh-llamilton concoction is entitled
“The Hope,” and, like its predecessor, it has a horse-
race in it. The dare-devil originality of these
dramatists! “Nothing succeeds like excess!” as O.
Wilde put it.
“Homesick” (from London) : During the strike
scare and the war panic the company-monger was
skulking in his lair. In six weeks only one
prospectus was published in the papers—tnat of
a picture show in Manchester. Nothing could stop
the picture craze. Everywhere they are tearing
down public-houses and running up picture palaces, of
lath and plaster and broken-up butter boxes. Prices
of admission are from a penny to sixpence. Every-
body goes. It is a mania, and just what the half-
educated Cockney wants, to show him something
of the world outside Leicester Square and Oxford-
street. When the Germans are here collectin'
boodle from the Bank of England, and drinking
all the penny ale in London, the seven and a-quarter
millions of the Fog will be safely ensconced in the
“palaces.”
“C. Ockney” : Australia’s old friend George Anson
has once more got a show in London. He is in the
cast of the prodigiously-boomed new Frohman pro-
duction, “The Concert,” at the Duke of York’s. It
is bad luck for the excellent mummer that the piece
does not seem to have caught o-n with any decisive
catch. Over-puffed in advance, perhaps. Managers
are prone to overdo the preliminaries nowadays.
How few shows come up to expectation. As Charles
Reade said: “The bill blows the trumpet and the
show blows the gaff!” “The Concert” is an adap-
tation from the German, turned out at the Belasco
factory, and has made pots of money—in N'Yark.
It is staged in London by Australia’s “Dot” Bouci-
cault.
The lady who was Miss Thelma Prendergast has
just married Mr. Alick Johnson, of Sydney. The
bridegroom is the only son of the late Mr. “Jimmy”
Johnson, clubman and station-owner, and is thor-
oughly eligible in every respect. Amongst other
things, he is a capable musician. Miss Prcndergast’s
smile and glorious Titian-red hair have been dis-
tracting patrons of the comic opera co. for the past
two years ; and her acting and dancing did a lot to
make Langford Kirby’s famous “I Wonder Who’s
Kissing Her Now” number the success it was.
Miss Rene Sandeman, hovering, at the time when
this was written, between life’ and death at a Manly
hospital, as a result of a motor smash in which one
of her companions got killed, is among the prettiest
of the present-day J. C. Williamson show girls. Her
counterfeit presentment, framed in a mass of hair,
proclaims, from a thousand hoardings, the virtues of
somebody or other’s hair-fertiliser.
“0.K.” The statement that Harry Rickards was
born of straight-laced parents who deplored his
music-hall tendencies, fits in with one of my earliest
recollections of his name. It appeared in the report
of a London police court case. Harry was charged
with assaulting a citizen who had accused him of
being “the son of a parson,” and probably he was
fined 20s. and costs for thus vigorously resenting the
soft impeachment. My infant mind was at a loss to ac-
count for Harry’s indignation, on the scanty evidence
reported in the” press ; a parent in holy orders seemed
nothing for even a lion comique to be ashamed of.
But now I take it for granted that the plaintiff rn
the case was a sneerful bloke, who, knowing that
Harry’s progenitor had a down on the purfesh., in-
tended the term “parson” as an insult to the
old man; wherefore, Henry showed a proper filial
feeling by stoushing the bloke.
“J.F.H.”: Nobody seems to have thought of
dramatising the grim and ghastly scenes that occur
in the plague spots of the Chinese quarters m Aus-
tralian cities, though San Francisco’s Chinatown
has provided material for several striking and suc-
cessful plays. The latest, just produced in London,
is “Expiated.” It tells the story of an American
whose wife has become a slave to the opium habit.
For years he has been searching for her through the
’Frisco dens, and when at last he discovers her, she
is living in one of the lowest and vilest of the lot,
the mistress of the Chow proprietor. By this time
he himself has become a slave of the drug. There is
an agonising scene, in which the husband implores
the wife to come away ; and though she refuses, she
in the end sacrifices her life to save his, after he has
been drugged and is about to be murdered by the
Chinese.
THE EXCUSE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The performance was not up to the average. May-
hap the performers had done badly at the races, and
were brooding over the trouble.- —Extract from recent
kindly critique.
“Good manager, your star is slow;
His face, which should be all aglow
With youthful fire to help the show,
Of joy reveals no traces:
He’s dried up, dead. Boss, what can be
The matter —is he ill? Tell me!”
“Kind sir, don’t hiss or throw bricks. He
Backed dead ’uns at the races!”
“The heroine’s a weepy part!
At curtain-rise her teardrops start,
Now, it’s Act 4, and still, poor heart,
Streaming with tears her face is!
An artist with a four-act cry!”
“Nay, nay, my friend, she pipes her eye,
Because she’s landed high and dry—
They wrecked her at the races.”
“Your comic man! (Yes, I’m aware —
In press pars., he’s a millionaire!)
All, well, the stage his phiz could spare —
In church its proper place is!
Never a mummer looked so glum,
He gets no laugh, the house sits dumb!”
“Pardon him, pray—he’s lost the sum
Of ten bob at the races!”
VICTORIA.
EARDLEY TURNER.


Australian Throughout
The D.J. SUIT CASE
IT is indeed Australian throughout—this
D..J. Suit Case —made of stout Australian
Cowhide, by Australian Workers in our
own specially equipped Australian factory.
When we say it is positively the best Suit
Case value for the price, you may depend it
is perfectly true, for we have proved it and
know. This D..T. Suit Case has two side
action nickel locks, of a rood strong qualitv.
and two inside straps. When you come to
consider the convenience of a Suit Case—
how you can pack so much into it without
crushing; how easy it is to handle in tram,
train or boat, and then add the superb value
of the D.J. in material and make and finish,
the prices we quote below are reasonable.
Sizes : 21 x 14 x 7, 24 x 14 x 7, 27 x 14 x 7 in.
Prices: 28/-, 32/-, 36/-
INITIALS STAMPED FREE, AND
CARRIAGE PAID ON THE D.J.
We stamp Initials on the D.J. Suit Case free of
charge, and send carriage paid to any part of Aus-
tralasia or the Pacific Islands.
DAVID JONES LTD.
Opp. G.P.0.,
SYDNEY,
.
m
H
Kugelmann’s
Pure Herbal
Skin Soap.
“Beauty's Aid.”
Free Sample sent on Receipt of
Twopenny Stamp,
Kugelmann’s Pure Herbal Skin Soap may be ob-
tained at all Chemists, Drapers and Storekeepers
throughout Australasia, at 2/6 per box of three large
tablets. . If not obtainable locally, send Postal Note
or Stamps of any State, to the value of 3/- (includ-
ing postage), when box will be posted per return
mail. ,
Sole Proprietors:
H. E. KUGELHANN & CO.,
Wholesale Druggists and Manufacturers,
14-16 Queen Street, MELBOURNE; Ptt Street,
SYDNEY; and at ALELAIDE and BRISBANE.
SOCIETY
PENFOLD'S
WINES
John Weary, of Vic., back from his
travels, is talking reasonably on some sub-
jects to the people who feed him up with
fatted calf. He tells them that, even in
Britain, where the goods-carters lately struck
Capital nearly dumb, by demanding 275. 6d.
weekly wages for 72 hours’ work, he saw —-
Many things that are excellent, and might be
copied. The roads of Great Britain, for instance,
are splendid, and are obtained by the peonle taxing
themselves. Australians rail at Federal, State and
municipal taxation, but in comparison with other
countries they are but learning the A B O of taxa-
tion.
Murray, however, merely mentions the fact
that good, ’ard, ’igh roads are due to good,
’ard, ’igh taxation. He says nothing about
the necessity for forcing shire councillors to
raise the local rates to a proper level, and
make the horrible country roads of Victoria
fit for a traveller who doesn’t want to be a
habitual suicide.
A queer story was told by a damp indivi-
dual who was lately landed at Queenscliff
(Vic.), from a fishing boat, with a thankful
expression and a set of wet togs. He was a
sailorman who, being desirous of returning
to the Cold Land, and being also in a tangled
state, had signed the articles of a Norwegian
ship. When he got aboard the windjammer,
out in the bay, he found things only mid-
dling. The “tucker” was poor, and the cook
worse, but the captain was a man who would
stand no nonsense. When the sailor and
some of his mates asked to be allowed to see
the Norwegian Consul, he curtly replied that
he, the skipper, made his own laws, and the
crew would have to abide by them. Then
they tried to signal the police and the war-
ships, but the boss prevented them. Three
tried to get away in a boat one midnight, but
the captain was a light sleeper and a revol-
ver shot, and an order to “put back and
come on board at once,” dissuaded them.
Finally, the vessel started on the long voy-
age round the Horn ; but just before reach-
ing the Heads, the narrator of the yarn
winked at the pilot, abandoned the wheel
and dived off for freedom. He reached a
fishing boat after a long swim and a narrow
escape from sharks. And that is all the notice
anyone is ever likely to take of the matter.
Jack has no effective vote, so he is a person
of very little account.
Provincial jealousy is wall-eyed as well as
green-eyed. The borough councillors of
Daylesford (Vic.) have been considering a
circular issued by the Portland Progressive
Association, urging the neglected towns of
Victoria to join in a Decentralisation move-
ment. Inasmuch as Portland has the strong-
est of reasons for demanding its railway
rights and seaport dues from the despotic Mel-
bourne Government, the Daylesford council-
lors snorted at a movement “which is being
urged for the particular benefit of one local-
ity.” Daylesfoid, itself, is one of the most
neglected towns in the State as regards rail-
way service. The 80 miles journey to and
from Melbourne takes five hours, more or
less, and there are only two trains a day on
the dreary _ job. But because Portland has
more to gain from the proposed attempt to
open up the country, the present state of
things may continue for ever for all that
Daylesford cares.
* * * *
It grows more and more probable that
Italy has struck a gigantic snag in Tripoli.
The Italians have captured one or two
coastal towns. They are in a position to
control, to a great extent, the sources of
information. If the cable says that 200
Italians have been killed, it is fairly probable
thac the real number is 400; and if it says
that 400 Turks and Arabs have been wiped
out, the chances are that the dead men
with the fez and the turban actuallv number
about 200. Yet reports keep leaking through
to the effect that, whenever the Dago gets
a little way inland, beyond the shelter of his
ships and his big guns, he strikes trouble.
Apparently, he lacks the nerve and the
canacity to meet a wild-cat enemy, who fights
like a fiend with guns, swords, paving-
stones, broken crockery and everything that
A NATURAL MISTAKE.
THE VISION: “ Come along heme, then, dar-
ling.”
(Delighted astonishment of Fatigued Frederick.)
comes to hand. The Mohammedan is in
such dead earnest that he would throw a
worm at his enemy if he had nothing else
to throw. In the end it will probably be
found that the Italian reigning family has
committed suicide in Tripoli. Success
might postpone the establishment: of the
Italian republic for a time, hut failure is
likely to bring it about so suddenly that the
king will have to flee from Rome before
breakfast. And already failure seems very
close.
A WINDY DAY IN TIIE ELYSIAN FIELDS.
NEW CHUM SPIPRIT: “ My word! you do have strong winds up here; there goes my
new halo!"
OLD HAND SAINT: “ Don't chase it. Stand still, and some cherub will catch it and
bring it to you.”
For years Dr. iUackellar, president of the
N.S.W. State Children Belief Board, has
been fighting to prevent women whose chil-
dren are born in benevolent institutions
being separated from them; and the riot
over the refusal to issue a license to the
Sydney Home for Babies, which has hitherto
been regarded as a training school for the
Norland Institute, just as Prince Alfred
Hospital is a training ground for the stu-
dents of the University medical school, is
likely to bring liim valuable assistance. The
doctor has made a close
study of his subject, and
the longer he studies it
the more convinced he is
that the only satisfac-
tory food for a babe is
that which it obtains
from its mother’s breast.
It was due to a savage
discussion between the
doctor and the late Car-
dinal Moran that the
Waitara Home swept out
its old system, and at
considerable expense
erected buildings so that
it could admit the moth-
ers with the babies.' The
results were enormous,
and from having about
the worst death-rate
around the Ma capital,
Waitara bounded to
about the best. For nine
weary years the doctor
has urged upon the pro-
cession of Governments
the necessity for provid-
ing nursing homes for
indigent mothers with their infants. And
for nine dreary years the Governments have
done nothing, and many valuable infants
have died in consequence.
* * * *
An angry man, who looked as though he
had gone through the revolution in China,
dropped this advt. into the Sydney D.T. the
other day :
AT ONCE. —Wanted, Double Room, by 2
men, no bugs. State rent. Box 903, G.P.O.
Promptly came this reply, among a sheaf of
others :
No. So-and-So, Foveaux-street, Surry Hills. If
Advertiser will call at above address will find a
clean comfortable front balcony room, 3 mins, form
centeral Railway Station. Barth Key. No bugs or
children. Terms 4s. Gd. per week each.
Poor little Australian “encumbrance”—
catalogued definitely now with the Norfolk
Howard!
It will be a proud day for the Australian
cowboss when a liner clears out for Father
Bull’s country with 1000 tons of butter
aboard. The P. and O. Co.’s Macedonia
got fairly close up last week when it sailed
away with 970 tons of boxed grease in the
freezing chamber. On the long run, the
passengers on the butter liner will occasion-
ally sight the white hats of the wheat ships
blowing slowly northward towards the waiting
millers and bakers, and the smoke of the Ar-
gentine cattle boats wallowing towards the
butcher. Thus are Bull's precarious vic-
tuals dragged round the world while Lon-
don waits with its seven-and-a-quarter mil-
lion mouths wide open.
INSULT TO INJURY.
P. C. S LOGOS : “ Come on , Liz — no kidding
Will J swear y'avail seen no signs of
Bongo Wilson about lately ?”
LIPPY LIZ : “No; not until you came along
with them patches on yer dial.”
THE ONION WRESTLER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Under below!” was the sing-song call from near
the steamer’s forward hatch. The warning came in
a tone that lacked the easy confidence of long use,
and it emanated from a young fellow with curlv
hair, who wore a straw hat and heliotrope socks. He
had put off his coat and vest, and his once white
shirt, with its turned-back cuffs, was smeared with
the oily grime of the vessel. — Extract from daily
paper report of wharf strike.
Charlie Penn, the ledger-keeper, shoved his heavy
truck to where
Swollen slings of fragrant onions soared and dangled
in the air ;
Limp and dirty was his collar, both his socks were
full of chaff,
And the way he hooked his onions made the strike
reporter laugh.
“Like it? Well, by Jove, old fellow, it’s a (grunt)
a holiday!
(Would you kindly push that bag? Oh, thanks
most awf’ll.v ! That’s the way!)
1 enjoy my meals much better than I ever did before.
Sleep ! You ought to hear the Mater talk about the
way I snore!
I enjoy this! . . . I’m not joking! My dashed
nerves were getting slack !
It’s a dashed (grunt) dashed sight better than
(Look out there!) working back!”
Straight across the wharf he trundled, gasping ev’ry
step he took ;
Charlie wasn’t built for lumping, and his knees
beneath him shook ;
But the eager, chatt’ring winches, dragging cargo
from the ship,
Brought him still more knobby burdens—bags which
slid and broke his grip ;
Still he puffed, and shoved, and struggled with his
large rebellious truck,
Fighting unfamiliar onions. (Mostly he had rotten
luck.)
While he gasped, they swayed and tottered, till they
fell and strewed the pier,
And the cursed onion rickshaw fell upon its side.
“Oh, dear!”
Charlie, clawing at his cargo with the lumper’s
burnished hook,
Seemed to wish that he was sitting by his clean,
unblotted book.
Charlie shoved his salvaged onions to the high and
fragrant stack ;
Spat upon his palms and snorted, seized the shafts
and trundled back:
“We’re not forced to do this, mind you! We’re
obliging them, that’s all!
We consider this is merely answering the bugle
call.
Loyalty, you know, ’s our watchword. We clerks
never go on strike.
Just imagine if we “downed our tools ” what Sydney
would be like!
Our employers don’t forget us, either, when the
strike is done.
We consider (grunt) this (Dammit!) lumping
(Look ou-u-u-t-t-t !) simply fun!”
Back and forth poor Charlie staggered in his sweat-
stained, ruined clothes —
Coal tar on his busted linen, perspiration on his
nose;
And the common smell of onions clung about his
long, dank hair,
As he shoved and dragged his weighty onion rick-
shaw here and there ;
Men of muscle stood and watched him toiling in
the summer heat—
Ass-food on his purple forehead, purple socks upon
his feet;
Fighting someone else’s battle —acting honorary
nark
To the brawn of fighting Labor—same old, green,
tea-money clerk.
N.S.W.
BERT SOFTGOODS.


If®
5a
WON’T YOU USE
what is good and pure?
Those common soaps that
do as much injury as cleans-
ing are never tolerated where
*?uiilight Soap has once
been tried.
>no^j
No. 67. GUARANTEED UNDER THE
PURE FOOD ACT, 1908,"
BY LEVER BR(/»ERS LIMITED,
SYDNEY, N.S.W. No. 57.
FUNCTIONAL LIVER TROUBLES are for the
most part the outcome of too little exercise and too
good living. The simplest and best of all remedies
is a wineglassful of “HUNYADI JANOS” natural
aperient water taken before breakfast every second
or third morning.*'
For a Gsauins
Coolest,
Lightest
and
Sweetest
of known
Pipes.
CATALOGUE
PP*T FREE
jhkhjk
A n v i-
H , co‘"ine.
Calabash Pipe
Send to
BLATTER & CO.,
THE ORIGINATORS,
3 ROYAL ARCADE,
MELBOUR'IF.
Wild’s Hairdressing Rooms, 30 Upstairs,
Sydney Arcade, George and King Streets, Sydney, is
the proper place to go if you want the best of atten-
tion. Electric head and face massage done in the
latest American style. Hours of business: 8.30 to
6.30 ; Saturday close at 1 o’clock.*
jhk
Madras Cotton Underwear
THESE mercerised Cotton Under-garments are of the
very lightest nature, specially purposed for Hot
Weather Wear, not merely on account of their light-
ness, but because the mercerising gives a silken feel and
softness, and the loose fitting nature makes for greater cool-
ness. Every day these short-length Pants become more
popular. We have both garments in all sizes, the patterns
being an attractive Blue and White stripe effect.
State Chest and Waist measure when ordering.
3/9
PER GARMENT.
Posted 3d. extra.
SEND FOR OUR NEW HANDBOOK OF MEN’S WEAR.
PEAPES & CO. Ltd.
“ Men’s
Outfitters,’
309-311 George Street, SYDNEY.
The Sydney Hospital had its 100th anni-
versary this week: Governor Macquarie
laid the foundation stone on October 30,
ISII. The place was designed mainly for
the patching l up of convicts, and as Mac-
quarie hadn’t any money to pay for the
building he gave the contractors the right
to import 45,000 gallons of rum, and sub-
sequently stretched it to 60,000 gallons.
There were three of them interested —
Blaxcell, Riley and D’Arcy Wentworth —
and they are supposed to have made £lO,OOO
apiece out of the deal. Wentworth was the
principal surgeon at the time; but, as he
was a lot of other things besides, Mac-
quarie swallowed him as a Government con-
tractor as well. That original hospital con-
sisted really of three buildings. The north-
ern wing, still standing, forms part of the
Parliament Houses, and the southern wing
is the present Mint building. The middle
one was the hospital proper; but even that
wasn’t all occupied for a while. Nobody
seems to know who designed the buildings,
but probably Mrs. Macquarie had a finger
in that pie as she had in many others. As
far as can be made out at this day, it took
the contractors something over five years
to finish the job, though meantime some of
the rooms were put to use now and then—
as, for instance, when a public meeting was
held there to raise a fund to help the men
who liad just been wounded at the Battle
of Waterloo. Many years later, by the
way, when the staff was reorganised (for
the 17th time or thereabouts) the man ap-
pointed to look after the stores was one
Jonathan Croft, who, as “purveyor,” bad
had entire charge of the 35.000 wounded
men left on Wellington’s hands after that
final unpleasantness with N. Bonaparte.
“A man named Cohen was first,” said
Sydney Evening News in its description of
how the crowd leaped in to buy tickets for
Melba’s last night. Well, who doubts it?
Isn’t a man named Cohen generally first?
THE LAST FURLONG—ALSO THE
LAST STRA W.
BOY: “What’s in front now , lather?”
MAN (bitterly): “Your mothers hat.”
“The Religious Editor”: If progress
doesn’t, at the coming Victorian State
elections, step over the collapsed heap of
creased garments which represents Premier
John Weary, someone should communicate
with the Minnesota (U.S.A.) Senate. That
body was said, some time back, to be con-
sidering the use of an anti-toxin for lazi-
ness, which, it was. claimed, would make the
chronic loafer trample on policemen and
other slow animals in his fury to obtain
toil. An injection of a pint of this might
make Weary leap into the air and run fast
enough to scorch his garments; or it might
just wake him sufficiently to loaf in a slop-
ing position and leave his feet in the fair-
way to be fallen over.
The North Shore ferry traveller is a con-
firmed fatalist these days. He has seen Sydney’s
narrow harbor getting more congested year
by year ; and at frequent intervals his boat
gets into ugly marine tangles, out of which
it emerges only with a great deal of luck and
much hooting. So he is firmly convinced
that the Big Smash is just about due. A
crowded boat will be cut down by one of the
steamers which should have been berthed
comfortably in Port Stephens or Twofold
Bay, and the disadvantage of dragging all
shipping to one place will be advertised on
many tombstones. It came near to happen-
ing on Wednesday week, when the How-
ard Smith Co.’s collier Derwent bumped the
Sydney Ferries’ Ivai Kai in mid-channel, and
practically wrecked one end of it. The
shock put out the electric lights, and the
captain of the sister boat Kulgoa, which
steamed across to the rescue, thought that
the stricken tub had gone down. He is
also reported to have expressed the opinion
that, had the Kai Ivai been hit amidships,
it would have Been cut in two. As he bosses
an exactly similar craft, he should know.
One day or night soon, in one of the ugly
mix-ups that are always happening, a ferry
is going to get the knock-out from a high
steel bow like the Gate of Doom.
* * * *
Melbourne Age recently whooped in its
shipping column about the crowded appear-
ance the Yarra wears nowadays. In another
part of the same issue was printed the re-
spectful official moan of the harbor master,
to the Melbourne Harbor T’-”st. about the
difficulty lie has in
finding berths and
shed accommodation
for vessels. Port Mel-
bourne is hated by
the importers, because
of a municipal
tion regarding width
of tyres, and also be-
cause it is a darned
long way from any-
where. So everything
that floats tries to
crush into the narrow
ditch, and the tub
that is shouldered out
has to drop anchor in
Hobson’s Bay, and
accumulate barnacles
until something strug-
gles down the gutter
and makes room.
Within the next few
months, steamers of
15,000 tons will be
using the murky
stream to dump their
loads .right on the im-
porter’s doorstep, and
the congestion and
bad language will be
worse than ever.
Meanwhile, the
straight cut which
Premier Weary was
going to go ahead
with seems to have
foundered somewhere,
and the useful harbor
of Portland is still shut
up. t Some day there
will be a collision in
the crowded water-
way, | a broad-beamed
tank will settle down
in the slush, and a
whole trading fleet
will be bottled up. A
marine blind alley is
liable to prove expensive under certain dis-
astrous circumstances.
* * * *
“Jabez” writes:—
If Dr. Peacock bangs, it will, in reality, be for an
offence of which the Law takes no cognizance. One
may term it: “Outraging the sensibilities of the
plain citizen.” He apparently performed an illegal
operation, and the patient died. But count-
less doctors do the same thing with the same
fatal result every year, and while a certain propor-
tion of them are put on their trial, not one in 1000
is ever convicted of anything.' A Sydney doctor,
who died a year or so ago,' notoriously earned his
entire living, during practically the whole of his
professional career, by performing abortions. He
did them with the cheery casualness of a cheap den-
tist pulling teeth; and he charged the same paltry
fee. The police, the public, even the Supreme
Court Judges knew all about his misdeeds. Yet,
time after time, the State failed to get a conviction
against him. And the authorities meet with a
similar difficulty in nearly all such cases, not only
here, but in Britain, America and on the European
continent. Depressing though it may be to the
moralist, it is, nevertheless, an indisputable fact
that abortion ranks with certain forms of perjury
(the phrase, “he lied — i.e., perjured himself —like
a gentleman,” has become classic) as a crime with
which the average . juryman has more than a
sneaking sympathy. One explanation is that many
a juryman, who has for years put unrighteousness
resolutely behind him, was driven, perchance, in his
unregenerate youth, to employ one of these prac-
titioners himself. Or perhaps the risk was taken to
save a son or nephew or brother, or what not, from
exposure, or from a marriage that would have
meant misery for all parties, or from worse. <"'ur
archaic laws, which still inflict barbarous penalties
on illegitimate children, and our social conventions,
which decree that every sort of shame and ruin shall
afflict the girl who “falls.” drive thousands of nor-
mally law-abiding folks to people like Dr. PeacocE
In their view he actually appears a very real sort of
saviour. There are plenty of parents who know
that their daughters would not be reputable women
to-day, and who have reason to think that they
might not be alive (since a girl “in trouble” is a
desperate character, and criminal incompetents—-
drunkards, perhaps, with no professional knowledge
whatever—are always ready to “help” her) if it
were not for the Peacocks of this muddled old world.
There are understandable reasons, when all is said
and done, why juries should strain points in favor
of flagrantly guilty abortionists.
Peacock would almost certainly have got off had
he been able to say that he had performed a neces-
sary curette ; or had he sent the girl away after the
operation, and then denied that, so far as he was
concerned, there ever had been an operation ; or had
he boldly let her die on his hands, and afterwards
defied the State to prove that he was primarily re-
sponsible for her condition. But here was a case
where something monstrous and hideous was sup-
posed to have been done. Peacock had not merely
experienced a bit of bad luck in his profession,
which led to his being charged with something that
the Law calls murder. He had deliberately torn a
corpse to pieces, boiled it, burned it, subjected it
to unthinkable indignities (assumipg, of course, that
the said corpse isn’t alive, and gone abroad or gone
to sea, or living in the backblocks, blissfully
ignorant that her walking remains are so badly
wanted). The imaginations of the jurors must have
been morbidly stirred by those considerations; and,
doubtless, the more they peered into the ashes at Car-
rum, and the more they examined the doctor’s baths
and enamelled cauldrons, the more the feeling of re-
vulsion grew. Whatever appeal he might have
made as a beneficent old man —one who had saved
hundreds from a fate worse than death —vanished.
He stood forth as a cold-blooded old ghoul.
The moral for intending assassins is: Avoid
shocking the public. If you find yourself with a set
of remains on your hands, keep them. The case of
Peacock, like that of the late Crippen, goes to
show (1) that nothing is to be gained by
scientificallv disposing of the dead; (2) that, any-
how, the dead mostly declines to be disposed of—
and there are cases in which the discovery of a
scrap of singed underclothing, or a few false teeth,
is liable to be more damning than the unearthment
of the entire corpse. In my opinion a criminal era
is at hand when the murderer will cling to his vic-
tim’s body as his one hope of salvation; and pas-
sionately resent the misguided efforts of his friends
to dispose of it.
* * * *
Justice a’Beckett, of Victoria, took but a
few hours to decide on following the recent.
English precedent in the case of Pretty v.
Pretty, and granting Mrs. Murphy, of Bal-
larat, a divorce from her Patrick. The lat-
ter, it appeared, had deserted his wife
thoroughly and completely, and the decree
nisi was fully earned; but Mrs. Murphy
had stated in her affidavit that since losing
Patrick she had, so to speak, adopted one
Lee. They had separated temporarily
pending proceedings, but if the divorce was
granted they proposed to marry imme-
diately. Lee also assured the Court that
this was his intention. It was a consider-
able confession for a petitioner for divorce
to make, and some Judges would have told
the lady to get work or something; but the
sensible a’Beckett perceived that if he re-
fused the decree the pair would almost cer-
tainly go and live together again, and thus
he would be encouraging immorality. So
he handed out the desired order after
making some unnecessary excuses. The Law
seems to have a great fear of being sus-
pected of common sense.
BROKEN DOWN!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Life’s a trainer —
Man’s the horse,
Dazed with life’s enragements ;
Owner Death comes on the course:—
“Scratched for all engagements!”
N.S.W.
O.C.C.
MASHED ON THE BALLET.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They all are pretty, all are plump,
And all arc fashioned neatly.
And when I see them in a clump
They dazzle me completely.
I’ve cash, and might wed one with case.
And fourteen leave forsaken.
The legend o’er is: “Take one please,”
But with the lot I’m taken.
Where all are choice, how can man choose?
This fact my courage smothers —-
Whichever girl I seize, I lose
The lovely fourteen others.
I would that Brigham Young I were.
And lived in Balt Lake Valley,
That l to fifteen might ic fair,
And wed a corps-de-ballet!
VICTORIA.
SILLIS SNELL.
THE ETERNAL PARADOX.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Mayor charged Colonel Onslow with having
hindered the Vaucluse sewerage scheme, and the
Minister’s suggestion to have bricks carried to out-
lying suburbs by means of trains, both vital matters
to Vaucluse. The voice of the member, the Mayor
declared, was not the voice of the people. Vaucmse
Council would rather the member not speak at all if
he was going to use them merely as a lever to oust
the present Government. In a year or so Vaucluse
would not know what to do with its sewerage, anil
buildings were being rapidly erected. Colonel
Onslow had better be warned that he must not stand
in the way of the progress of Vaucluse. —Sydney
Evening News.
This is the crime which, in an “Anti-Socialist”
community,
Arouses more resentment, not to say distrust and
hate,
Than any in the Decalogue. A man may with im-
punity
Assault the Speaker, talk wild rot, howl, curse
and agitate,
And from reproach be sure of gaining absolute im-
munity—
Provided he eschews the cause he’s there to advo-
cate.
In theory, the “Liberal” despises with an infinite
Contempt that Labor nostrum hight “State Aid.”
This curse he claims
“Saps self-respect and energy” ; in fact he glimpses
sin in it;
He calls it “false economy,” and such-like scorn-
ful names.
And yet, in practice, “Liberals” are never tired of
dinning it
Into their Rep. that State Aid must be first among
his aims.
State bricks, State hospitals et al are howled at,
when elections rage,
As wicked Socialistic stabs at Private Enterprise ;
Mad schemes, inspired by ignorance, with which all
thinking sections wage
(Or ought to) unrelenting war. And then the
tumult dies,
And “Liberals” start leaping for the Curse with
wild affection. Age,
Youth, men, girls, lads —all chase State Aid, with
passion in their eyes.
I do not know a paradox more staggering than this
appears.
A policy in June (we’ll say) is damned as mad
and vile;
July arrives, and, straightaway, the horror of it dis-
appears,
The erstwhile Curse is greeted in the warmest
sort of style.
What does it mean? Fraud? Foolishness? And
does it call for bliss or tears?
Should “Lib’ralism’s” antics cause dejection—or
a smile ?
N.S.W.
H. SINGEMOINE.


The new anti-dust campaign of the
Melbourne City Council has commenced.
The Council has resolved to spend £25
in a lump sum on laying a new bitumen-
ous matrix over about 200 yards of
selected roadway and watch the result.
I he bust 1 f'lervd Smiles..
47'If 'I '
King Hun Pang, the delegate from the'
Sydney branch of the league, has been
successful in stimulating the Chinese of
Melbourne to contribute to the rebellion
fund. *
\ Every work of
\ \SodvaKon rv\uvh
btij'i'
round of Tfce- Ko. t" „
Rentier flurra.\j - . . .
/ The best assistance Aus*
tralians could have in the great work be*
fore them was that of the big-armed,
big-hearted people from Great Britain.
(Applause.) j
V,cfcr;*n -"Hutlo, roaTls' wheel* arc you do.rvj
parts?" ( . ..
Immcaranl'-''W , eVe buj-armcJ, people from
Crea-I- /come "U c/evelofc IK*
_.>4lg c,oimTry. T-eel
BRIGHT, Monday—A party of six
lady tourists had an exciting experi-
ence while visiting Mt. Feathertop on
Saturday. After having spent a plea-
sant day, they started on the home-
ward journey, but took a wrong track.
At 8 o’clock at night a search party of
over 40 residents went out, and began
to scour the mountains. At last one of
the searchers detected a fire in a gully
some miles away, and round this fire
the young ladles were discovered.
STATE ELECTIONS.
Victoria
I hanks , John
but Itierc isn't"
<* conspicuously
<jooa ejy *w j
tKe. basket', lb
, /srrr C ne?' , U
Polling Day,
Nov. 23.
Pa^
'0 por
ar\
Idcl
{or loiv'n
ar\d
C ou r ' lr y •
THE
RESCUE
LosJ' Tourisb
mcrv / uje
you Lye.rc never
< ~X Com.ng!"
VICTORIAN DOINGS.


GOLDEN YELLOW AXLE GREASE.
A Pure Oil Lubrirant for
all Axles and Bearing's.
Manufactured by LEWIS & WHITTY, Melbourne and Sydney.
McKENZIE’S EXCELSIOR - BAKING POWDER -
20 Per Cent. Discount
Is taken off by us from the best
English manufacturers’ WHOLE-
SALE catalogue prices for Spoons
and Forks.
HOW can it pay? we are often
asked. Well, it only gives us a
broker’s commission of profit, but
the enormous output pays us, espec-
ially as Spoons and Forks are easily
handled, and make no bad stock.
We only sell the best possible
Snoons- and Forks, and they are all
extra heavily plated on white, hard
nickel silver, They will wear like
silver for 25 years; indeed, we have
seen them after 40 years’ wear
worn at the prongs, but otherwise
like new.
Fairfax 8 Roberts, Ltd.,
23 & 25 Hunter Street.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney.
i , i|i >i
Revolving Soup Tureens, Best Electroplate,
9i,| ch £5 10
Less 20% ,2
Nett
..£4BO
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“Fathead”: I don’t think much of any of
the hard timbers so far mentioned. Up here, near
Ayr (Q.), we’ve got something that’s a cross be-
tween a rriyrtle and carborundum. We never think
of trying to chop it down now ; we just light a fire
alongside, and melt the infernal invention.
“Off-sider”: The North Queensland hick-
ory is the hardest wood. When you hit it with an
axe, the axe rebounds three miles. White ants also
rebound. Other hard trees simply refuse to be bit-
ten by white ants, but this one throws them into the
next parish. I have known a money-lender stand
alongside a hickory, and his heart was so soft by
comparison that he lent a homeless widow £lO with-
out security. Also, saw a streak of lightning strike
a hickory sapling once. The sapling wasn’t injured,
but the lightning broke its neck, and the thunder,
which was following close behind, was knocked into
three pieces. There have been hard times in the
North, but even the times when the Q. N. Bank sus-
pended were a feather bed by comparison with this
tree—in fact, some people mistook them for soup.
The hickory is used for making milestones.
* * * *
“Odor”: Re “Smell” (B. 5/10/T1) and
his nomination of belar for the hardwood champion-
ship, I would like to know what sort of axes he was
using. I am very busy at present, or I would take
my axe over if I knew where he lived and make
matches out of that belar log. However, if he lets
me know his locality I will post the axe to him, or
I will give him my address, and he can send the
log, and 1 will split it into three-inch chips and re-
rn by next mail. TTis mistake evidently lay in
'acking the belar with a fish knife.
FOR CALE-
DONIANS ONLY.
CHIEF: “How do
you feel now , Jork?”
J OCK : “ Brawly—
thank ye for spearin"
Aitaca : Acarlo” (B. 10/8/’ll) casts
more cold ink on the red-hot testaments re South
Pacific sharks. Fijians won’t associate with any
devil-devil or good spirit (imported Scotch barred)
. . '
on any terms. Five years ago a native woman’s foot
was bitten off in the Ba River, 10 miles from the sea.
In 1909, at Vatualele, a man’s thighbone was picked
as clean as a Wowser’s wine bill. In Madroga, the
natives won’t venture into certain rivers or channels
for any money. They also fear the big houga, the
tiger eel on the reefs, and the Methody missionary.
Perhaps at Malaita there is a superfluity of the last-
named, the most voracious of land sharks, and the
natives take to the water and the lesser evil.
“Mallarapoonie” writes with a theodo-
lite :
The next most featureless thing to a “Liberal”
policy, or a wet week, would be a topographical
chart of Westralia. Groperland’s most elevated
bit of earth only reaches a height of 3640 ft.
above sea level. This geological insurrection is on the
Stirling Range, a bit to the nor’-east of Albany,
and its only rival is Mount Augustus, 3480 ft., ’way
up in the Gascoyne River district. After these two
protuberances there is a ruck of hillocks, whose
crests range round the 2000 ft. mark; but the region
of their abundance is tableland country, averaging
1500 ft. above sea level. As a matter of fact, there
isn’t an imposing mountain in the whole vast wilder-
ness of the Bigjohn State. The only really rugged
tract in Groperland is north of the Fitzroy River,
in the West Kimberley Division. There, the forma-
tions are principally of sandstone; and the great
tablelands formed thereof are ravined, seamed and
gorged into a perfect labyrinth of bluffs, precipices
and other verticals. On account of their stratified
nature, however, these ranges, of which the King
Leopold perpendicularities are the main vertebra,
never reach any great altitude; Mount Hann, on the
upper Prince Regent, being the overlord at 2800 ft.
Notwithstanding its fore-shortened mountains, and
the dreary wastes of sand-plain that fringe its coasts,
Westralia is possessed of one abounding feature
which, unluckily, isn’t as noticeable as it is im-
mense, viz., the huge interior tableland, which, for
area, anyhow, compares favorably with any elevated
tract on earth. From the headwaters of the Ord, in
the Far North, right round the coastal river-heads
to Eucla in the south, this huge plateau spreads in-
land to the heart of the continent. Like the eroded
continents described in “The Fool and his Inheri-
tance” (Sept. Lone Hand), Westralia would be a
fairly high country if it wasn’t so evenly distributed;
for there are hundreds of thousands of square miles
of interior tablelands running into an altitude of
four figures—country that averages between 1200 and
1500 ft. above sea level. A glance at Westralian
survey statistics convinces one of the astonishing regu-
larity and persistency with which the State’s rail-
way, etc., have tended to climb out on to the roof
of things. A traveller on the railway going east-
ward to the goldfields approaches the brink of the
great tableland when nearing Southern Cross (which
is beside the salt lake country, and that demonstrates
the flatness of affairs), and the same plateau will be
with him 500 miles east of Laverton. The same
applies to the Murchison railway. Locos snort labor-
iously from zero at Champion Bay to the edge of
the great plateau (about 100 miles inland), and,
after that is gained, they fairly romp across the
eternal wastes of level mulga scrub that stretch
eastward to the Uttermost Rim —to the places where
they have to dig up the daylight with crowbars, and
where Time stretches backward to keep the dust out
of his beard. Dwellers in those furthest inland
regions live mostly on the roof of things. Sand-
stone, at 1755 ft. above sea level, enjoys the honor
of being the highest township in Westralia, and, on
that account, Hans Irvine’s , mine at Black Range
may be said to be the tallest hole in the State.
Meekatharra, another outback terminus, comes next,
at 1708 ft. of elevation, while third place is easily
captivated by that remotest of villages, Laverton-on-
the-Edge.
When Westralia’s connecting transcontinental is
built it will run for hundreds of miles across a
plateau that is well above the 1000 ft. level. Num-
bers of people will doubtless be induced to make that
journey for the sake of the delightful desert air
alone; for, out east of Bulong, east of Boulder’s
belt of smoking mine stacks, there is little else but
earth and sky and —mostly atmosphere.
“Petto”: No good telling me the lizard
can’t unhook his tail. I know he can ; but what I
do not know is whether he can hook it on again.
I think he must be. able to, because I have never
found any unattached tails. My theory is that the
reptile, after dissolving partnership with his tail,
lurks round the corner until the coast is clear,
backs in, hitches up to the previously discarded
article, takes it home, and oils it for the next
emergency.
“Barcoo”: At Carrandotta, on the Georg-
hia (Q.), a. few years ago, a black boy, about 10
years of age ’ had his arm badly fractured. The
STbitK p®? jUSt been
called to attend to Peter, consequently there was no
medical attention left for Tarpot. The station
storekeeper, being a humane man, took a hand. The
arm gradually'got into an awful state; but the
locum tenens was persevering — he parboiled the
limb. hard and often. At the end of six or seven
weeks the arm dropped off at the shoulder. This is
known, I believe, as natural amputation, and occurs
once in about 999,999 cases. Tarpot is still alive on
the Georgina, and with stock is considered one of
the smartest—and that is where stockmen are smart.
Retired recently from active service, G.
M. Bowden, coachdnver on the roads between New
England and Murrurundi for the past 40 years, and
between Walcha and Walcha-road for another lengthy
period. Local residents in the last-named locality
handed him a cheque for £lOO in return for the
thousands of necks lie didn’t break during his long
turn in the steering box.
FEMININE
PERVERSITY
MRS. PARSON: "You leave
your young wife too
much, alone, William.
You should let her
share your pleasures."
WILLIAM: “ Sho' I would, mum; but I can assure you she won't toush a drop."
“Agricola”: Must congratulate “Gip” (B.
28/9/’ll) on the toughness of the Monaro (N.S.W.)
hounds that flourish on phosphorised rabbits. Have
squandered the best years of my youth in rabbit-
infested districts, and date from before the introduc-
tion of phosphorus as poison, but have rarely seen a
pup recover after chawing the carcase of a bunny
charged with the phos. Of course it depends upon
the amount of poison that bunny ate, and on
the sections consumed, although, as a carcase dries,
the phosphorus permeates it and makes it almost
all deadly. As a rule, in the case of a freshly-
poisoned animal, the dog first devours the portions
so freely alluded to by the late Thomas Bent when
denouncing an opponent, and when he gets the dope
he is a pitiable object. Have seen them hold out
from seven to 14 days, sometimes standing for hours
swaying from side to side, or, alternately, lurching
backward and forward. They were not my dogs, or
they wouldn’t have had to wait.
* * * *
“Reu-Tou”: At Armadilla (Q.) station
they have just struck water in the bore. Being
without supply tanks, the contractor let the fluid
flow into an adjacent clay-pan, where prickly-pear
cutters had heaped up a large stack of the spiky
devil. As I earn my crust dodging the boss here,
I can speak with authority. The owner caught me
one morning coming from breakfast with a sausage
in my mouth, and ordered me to go and muster
cattle in the bore paddock, and water them at the
clay-pan. I didn’t like to tell him to go to Gehenna.
So I went. I found 150 head and drove them to
water. While sitting on my horse waiting for
them to quench their thirst, I was struck with their
antics. The younger bullocks surrounded one old
piker, who was retiring, and started bellowing Tke
Bacchanalians, saying, “Have one with us.” When
they all retired to the shade and lay down, I thought
I would have a drink myself, and give my horse one.
I pulled my quart-pot off the saddle and was sur-
prised to find the fluid tasted like sherry, only bet-
ter. The nag took in a camel’s supply. I concluded the
mineral in the water had driven all the hidden
alcohol from the pear, and thus formed the wine.
Just before my e3'es closed, my moke started neigh-
ing that 'he would bet me two more drinks that he
was a better horse than I. I told him to go away
and sign the pledge, and then I fell down and slum-
bered.
Six shooters out of 20 participants in a
hare drive up Singleton way (N.S.W.) recently
bagged 278 hares, half a dozen snakes and a death
adder. Unfortunately no solicitors were sighted.
Within 18 months over 1000 hares have been de-
stroyed in the locality, and four-footed capital is
fleeing the country.
“Mashtun”: Latter-day sloppy and erotic
fiction, stocked by the gross in Outback stores
has fathered (or mothered) the christenings of all
the young gins in the Westralian nor’-east. Nothing
so common as the good old monicker of George V’s
consort is bestowed on a lubra nowadays Writer
knows of a Sybil, an Estelle and a C'W in a semi-
friendly tribe near Peak Hill. The full label of
Victoria Cross is prized by a Wiluna gin, and Lydia
was the front address of the youthful worse-half of
the buck Frank who murdered Drover Shoesmith and
ex-Constable Thomson on the Canning stock route
last April, and for whom two police parties set out
from Lawler’s a fortnight ago. Lydia, “lovely and
luscious,” on the word of one East Murchison mar-
ried observer. Which, perhaps, provides a clue to
the motif of the tragedy.
* * * *
T ~ -r ...
IjGO Lea. 1 . Is tneie Any authentic in-
formatlon to be obtained as to how fast a snake can
travel? . 1 have never clocked one of them, but from
casual observation I’m prepared to back the tiger
against all crawlers over any distance under 100yds.
Snake and stake will be Produced on demand,
* * * *
“Klifton” ; For over three weeks Fitz-
Jones had been in hospital, and had been fed ex-
clusively on liquid foods. To-day, however, the nurse
had brought him a teaspoonful of tapioca, which,
instead of satisfying him, only accentuated his
hunger. He felt as if he could have eaten a bullock,
and said as much to the nurse . but the angel merely
shook her head, and said he must be content with
what she had given him for that day. To-morrow,
perhaps> h e would get a double allowance, and, if
he continued to improve, the supply would be gradu-
ally increaS ed. The doctor had mentioned tfher,
too, that the patient would probably be allowed to
Bit up for five or six minutes in the morning, and
perhaps for a little while longer the following day,
and s 0 0,1 = but everything must be done very gradu-
ally at the start. The nurse was just rushing away
b ° t 0 ?, nC f er ““i wb « n . Fitz-Jones stopped
J* fZait Jf r^T ’ °~ °
* * * *
“Arcarlo”: Re “Nala Nodelpats” and his
desire to know something about Binghi’s smoke sig-
nals. While I was in the Solomons some of the boys
expatriated from Queensland brought back the code,
Three fires are used, and the niggers I had control of
received mesages from Malaita, via Florida—total
distance 67 miles. After events proved them true,
Another implement of long-distance signalling is the
drum, made of a huge 15ft. log hollowed out to a
parchment-like thinness. This, when struck with a
wooden mallet, will transmit signals down the wind
25 miles. Also, there is sub-marine signalling by
the coast natives on Malaita. They strike the water
sharply with the cupped hands, and produce a send
like a muffled rifle shot. I have myself heard this
six miles away whilst in a whaleboat. Could not
understand what was signalled, but my Malaitan
“boss-boy”’ interpreted.
McCORMICK’S HORSE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I went to buy McCormick’s horse,
A splendid neddy in whose veins
With youth’s ferocity did course
The. bloocl of many noble: strains.
All good were his, I know,
Because McCormick' told me so.
The horse was tall, the horse was strong,
The horse was swift and he was kind.
He’d tow a ton of spuds along, *
Or race a southern buster blind.
He was in great condition, too,
“And only twenty quid to you!’’
We walked up to the yard. The lad,
When called, led out a lonesome nag,
Who was so thin it made me sad.
A pair of hurdles in a bag
Beside a mildewed horse like that
Would be a monument of fat.
McCormick looked upon the horse,
And then with sorrow looked at me.
And, as a solemn thing of course,
He flogged the boy most direfully.
“You ass!” he bellowed, while he whipped—
“ You’ve been an’ gorn an’ ’ad ’im clipped l”
VICTORIA.
SILAS SNELL.


PLASMQN COCOA
“ A Delicious Beverage of much greater
nutritive value than ordinary Cocoa.”
—British Medical Journal•
PLASMON IS USED BY THE ROYAL FAMILY.
Australian Depot: 5& 7 Barrack St.. Sydney.
The Royal Hotel,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Most centrally situated Hotel in Sydney.
Best place to lunch and dine in town.
J. W. COCKBAINE, Proprietor.
The Army of
Constipation
Is Growing Smaller Every Day.
CARTER’S LITTLE
LIVER PILLS are
responsible—they not
only give relief—
they permanently
cure Constipation.
Millions use
them for
Biliousness,
jhk
Carters
■ITTLE
IVER
PILLS.
Indigestion, Sick Headache, Sallow Skia^
SMALL PILL, SMALL DOSE, SMALL PfilCE.
GENUINE must benr Signature
Are you going to the Cup? If so you will witness
the finish of the great race. Though sorely needed,
the horse race “starting” machine confronted oppo-
sition. But it survived and now rules supreme.
Idealists affirm the “finishing” machine is just as
sorely needed. It will assist the Judges, preserve a
permanent record and dissolve both doubts and dis-
putes. If it originates here, as the “starter” did, it
would add another feather to Australia’s cap.
Phillips Ormonde, patent attorneys, 2'jo Flinders St.,
Melbourne.*
“Condamine”: In the Queensland prickly-
pear board’s report, reviewed in the “Abo” page (B.
5/10/’ll), chemist Brunnich’s recommendation of a
mixture of cold water and 101 b. arsenic to 41b. soda
is a bit off. So, also, is his estimate of the amount
(100 gallons) of spraying mixture that quantity
would make. I am at present engaged in pear-
murder, and have tried many proportions. I find
the most effective to be equal quantities of caustic
soda and arsenic boiled (not mixed cold) for at
least 20 minutes. The spraying mixture should be
four gallons water —certainly not more than five —
to the lb. of arsenic. Large bunches of pear should
be sprayed, then chopped down and sprayed again.
Where an injector can be introduced into the bulb
and main branches, an injection should be given and
the leaves sprayed. Small bunches need receive an
injection only. Injection is practically useless in the
winter, and is most effective in the hottest weather.
Some people mix 4oz. saltpetre to the four gallons
of mixture to facilitate burning, but I think that is
unnecessary. One man with a spray and injector
will out more pear than a dozen men chopping
and burning, even where timber is plentiful.
As to the merits of pear as a fodder, we are
experiencing a pretty severe drought in this portion
of Queensland just now, and pear-eating cows on the
frontages are dying rapidly, but back in the scrubs
where water is not they are thriving.
* » * *
From “Jack o’ the North”:—
Found a Paradise in the Daly River country,
Northern Territory. I could talk like a tenth-rate
poet over the beauty of the billabongs out that way—
the big moon shining on them, and the thick,
scented jungle hedging them in, and the fluting of
the wild geese on the night breeze. I hear the
Protector of Abos. has resigned owing to the inter-
ference of clerics and office boys down south. All
the Abo. Protector crowd are being run down by Ohow
white-men, who hate any interference with the
ancient industry of multiplying half-castes. Some
of these mean whites dummv leases for Chows, and
help them in opium smuggling. But the Common-
wealth has got hold of things, and the oldest in-
habitants who spragged the wheels of the Territory
will have to alter or die. Nearly every mining lease
in the Territory is being worked by Chows and
dummies. The Abo. Protection officials are doing
their best to carry out an unworkable Act, and the
more intelligent people recognise it, but most of
the old Government officials are up against the new
men. The old hands have frightened the niggers
with tales of the new regime, and the niggers have
“gone walkabout alonga bush” in mobs. Still, the
new Protectors are gradually gaining the confidence
of the boys, and it’s about time. Out at the Daly
mining shows Chows are working aboriginals under-
ground on the face. They pay with opium charcoal
and Chinese gin. They have debased whole tribes,
and teach the gins how to procure abortion. The
Protectors took Vicky, a pretty half-caste girl of 15,
out of a filthy camp, the other day, and put her in
the Sacred Heart convent, and now the wasters
have helped her to escape.
* * * *
A light with some unusual features about
it, occurred at Ballyfarnan, Roscommon Co., Ire-
land, last month. It was for the welter-weight
championship of Connaught, and the principals were
Tommy Conlon, a local lad, and Jack McCoy, of Wex-
ford. Among Conlon’s seconds were Rev. Father Con-
lon, Tommy’s brother, and F. Fallon, J.P., Chairman
of the Leitrim County Council, his uncle. The re-
feree was the Earl of Kingston, and the hall where
the disturbance took place was crammed with the
indigenous gentry and clergy, both Romanist and
Protestant. Conlon won with a knock-out in the
17th round.
NOT HIS FAULT.
D R. KILLEM (to undertaker): “Ah, Brown , I
want you to go and take Jones’s measure
for a coffin. I saw the last of the poor old
man this morning.”
UNDERTAKER (affably): “Thank you, thank
yo u, doctor.”
DR. K.: " Don't thank ME, Brown."
“L.S.”: “Cellu Loid” (B. 13/7/’ll) has
evidently been out of the Solomons for some years.
The successful trader of to-day doesn’t sit in a “deck-
chair with a revolver in his hand.” He sells the re-
volver and buys a native wife, treats her well, and
gathers in all the cocoanuts owned by her relatives
and friends. Men like the late-lamented David and
Solomon would have captured all the trade in the
Solomons. A few traders, I’ll admit, walk the
narrow road and do well. Where competition is
keen, the main trouble is credit. An attempt was
made to stop the credit system, but the coons held
out strongly, and won in a canter. The pet aversion
of trader and planter alike is the Malayta Trading,
Planting and Mission Co. Don’t know whether this
concern catches many souls, but it catches plenty of
copra and ivory nuts.
A REST FROM COM-
PULSORY LABOR.
THE COP : “Wot yer loafing about
’ere fieri Why don't yer get work?"
THE RESTING SIKES : “I'm ’aving a vacation.
When I wants me 'air cut again , I might let
yer know."
“vagabond,” in reply:—
I hasten to explain to “Dinkum,” “What” and
“Angora,” who fell upon my query as to why the
Australian farmer doesn’t encourage the motor-
tractor, that I am not selling engines ; nevertheless,
I’ll try to reply with sufficient argument to remove
the objections raised.
First, the alleged sympathy of the cocky for the
harness-maker and all the other dependents upon the
four-legged system doesn’t appeal to me. If it were
true, the cocky, to be consistent, should refuse to
ride on the railway or send his goods by rail. Does
he?
The objection to the tractor because the farmer
isn’t an engine expert, and wouldn’t know what to
do if its complicated innards got out of gear, is
more reasonable, but agricultural tractors have
“reached the almost perfectly simple stage,” and a
person of average intelligence can be taught enough
in a day by the firm he buys from to run the jigger
Without trouble. I know a man who bought one, and
whose two sons have since been running it without a
hitch on all sorts of farm work, although they were
absolutely destitute of the slightest knowledge of
engines when they started. Even if this were not
so, a man expert enough for the work can be hired
at little more cost than the ordinary farm hand.
As to being able to divide up a horse team to do
ploughing and harrowing together, and there being
fundamental reasons why the tractor can’t be bi-
sected likewise, isn’t it right that if you divide one
horse team, you’d only have two half-horse teams?
And I’d back the tractor to plough and then harrow
an equal patch in less time than the two half-horse
teams would do the job.
It is, of course, true that the owner breeds the
horses cheap, gets work out of them, and can sell
them; but it is also true that valuable horses de-
velop diseases enough to fill fat volumes of veterinary
books, and have even been known to die or break
something important to their usefulness. If the
horse breaks a leg he can’t get anew one, while if
the tractor breaks its neck anew neck can be bought.
It is true, also, that the farmer gets his horse-
feed at first cost, whereas benzine has to be pur-
chased ; but he might be getting something more
valuable than feed out of his ground, his labor and
his time, and, even after the Trusts take their whack
out of the benzine, it costs less to feed a tractor
than a team equal to doing the same work. And
the tractor’s feed doesn’t run up to famine prices
when a touch of drought wanders on to the land.
If, as “Angora” says, it is “long ago” that he
passed out his tractor, I’d advise him to go into
the subject again. He’ll probably be dumbfounded
at the improvements, in strength and simplicity
especially, that the last two or three years have
made.
“P. Malthus”: Re the famous Speewah
station (B. 7/9/’ll), of Waybaek fiction, “Conda-
mine” says the boss of the board used to ride up
and down on a bicycle. He did, at odd times, using
one of the old high bikes; but ordinarily he drove
up and down in a buggy. “Condamine” also omit-
ted to mention that, at the Speewah, the duff for the
shearers’ dinner was cut up with disc harrows,
and the cook’s slushy had to go out in a boat to
sugar the tea.
“Bogan Bill” : The lady sundowner is an
abundant feature of the Riverina river-bends. There
is not an A.W.U. man along the eastern slopes who
hasn’t heard of Pearlie McGinty, The Trotting Cob,
The Bucking Donkey, The Black Magpie or Mother
McLeod. Neither is there a shearers’ cook who,
when the dames of hard visage and multitudinous
winters line up for a hand-out, doesn’t slip a bottle
of pickles and a tin of milk into the parcel of mut-
ton and brownie. They are popular visitors at the
sheds, and carry A.W.U. tickets to a girl.
“Phil. P ”: Don’t think much of the
opossum farming: proposition that was recently
talked about, and I speak with a considerable
knowledge of the furry person. He is difficult to
herd, and his aerial methods call for elaborate
fencing. But why not wallaby raising? There is
a constant and increasing demand for skins. (I sold
up to 3s. per pelt this season.) Wallabies are
easier to stock and handle than the prehensile-tailed
one, and can be more readily kept within bounds.
Even if the wallaby’s overcoat is only a third of the
market value of that of the ’possum, the profit
would be more certain —anyhow, until the aero-
plane is so improved that a person could go cruis-
ing round in the moonlight to muster his tree-top
stock.
A Moral and Some Tinned Fish.
On this subject, “G.W.” holds forth : —
When the Advisory Board appointed by the N.S.W.
Government made regulations under the Pure Food
Act, a couple of years ago, one of the best of them
(from the public point of view) permitted a manu-
facturer to guarantee his goods by lodging a pre-
scribed form with the Treasury, and then to place
on the label the words': “Guaranteed under the
N.S.W. Pure Food Act serial No.” (quoting the num-
ber of his guarantee). At the same time, a pen-
alty was provided to discourage the promiscuous
use of expressions that looked large, but meant
nothing. The old gag, “Absolutely Pure,” which
had no value, and looked out on the world just as
cheerfully from a tin of strawberry jam that was
largely tomato as from the genuine article, went
out of business. With the gentle stimulus of
further regulations regarding guarantees, statements
of purity and misdescriptions generally (whicn regu-
lations, it was hinted, might be applied to adver-
tisements just as readily as to labels), dealers got
down to a policy of moderation in boosting their
products, and an era of comparative commercial
honesty set in. For the first time since Phillip
landed on these shores, the public was getting a rea-
sonably pure article, free from exaggeration and
frill. A deep gloom settled on the dishonest grocer,
and the periodical reports of departmental prosecu-
tions kept his sugar-sanding propensities severely
in check. The stuff in which Boyce and Co. usually
honor the health of Prohibition, when they feel
sufficiently cheerful, was likewise improved by salu-
tary restraint. The food adulterator was steadily
drifting up King-street, and some dishonest capital
was leaving the country.
Then the Board of Health struck a snag. Australia im-
ports large quantities of American salmon. _ This stuff
was labelled, “Guaranteed under the United States
Pure Food Act.” It didn’t comply with the N.S.W. Act,
so the Board of Health told the importers that the
words must come off, or be replaced by the local
guarantee. A wordy conflict arose, the upshot of
which was that the American exporters refused to
go to the expense of printing fresh labels to suit
one State, since the other States, or those of them
that possessed pure food legislation, made no objec-
tion. They handed out an ultimatum to the Board
of Health, that either the stuff should be allowed
in as it was, or else they would cut N.S.W. out
of their trade altogether. The Board of Health, im-
bued possibly with that reverence for the imported
article which still lingers in certain quarters in
the Ma State, backed down. The salmon came in.
Really, the salmon doesn’t matter much. It is pro-
bably all right, though the Australian ought to give
his local tinned fish (they make some excellent
stuff on the Queensland coast) a show occasionally.
But the point is that the Board of Health, in remov-
ing its prohibition on the salmon, had to remove
it on every article of consumption. As a result, the
admirable provision abovementioned, designed to
safeguard the consumer from fraud as well as in-
jury, is now a dead letter. A lot of good work is
in a fair way to be undone. A manufacturer may
put any old rubbish into his stuff and call it “abso-
lutely pure,” “guaranteed under the Act,” and so
forth, and he can only be punished when his stuff
is sampled and analysed. Previously, if he de-
clared it was guaranteed, it was a simple matter
to look up the records, and, if he were lying, give
him a substantial penalty to go on with. Now, for
the sake of not losing the American salmon, the
THE ACTOR: A PROPHECY.
N.S.W. consumer has to submit to the risk of getting
999 other things in an impure state.
A Federal Pure Food Act, under which the
guarantee provision would apply to the whole Com-
monwealth, would meet the case. It is gratifying
to learn that, on the conclusion of the Medical Con-
gress, sitting in Sydney, the Government medical
officers of the various States were to confer as to
whether uniform pure food regulations should be
recognised throughout Australia. It is really a
waste of time to ask such a question, for the answer
stares the inquirer in the face. What is wanted is
for the Federal Government to get busy with a
scheme for Commonwealth control. It is another
instance of powers which the States can’t use effec-
tively, but which the Commonwealth could make a
powerful weapon, and that affords an additional . re-
minder to the fool voting public in its awakening,
that the Referenda proposals which it rejected erred
only on the side of moderation. Such a Federal
administration would probably make the salmon
kings think again, and speedily acquire a pastepot
and a new stock of labels._ Just now the label is
on the public’s back, and it reads “Ass.”
THE VILLAGE IDIOTS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
At the beginning of the year there were 5200 reg-
istered insane persons in Victoria. At the end of
that year there were 5349. At the end of 1909 the
ratio was one insane person to 250 of the popula-
tion. At the end of 1910 the ratio had become one
in 246.5. The number admitted to the Public Hospi-
tals for the Insane was 802, the highest admission
rate as yet. It is hard to understand why this
should be in a new country. ...There are explanations
which are deserving of investigation.”— Dr. Ernest
Jones, of Victoria, in his yearly report.
There are reasons no one mentions —explanations
one or two,
Which might grieve the saintly persons who infest
the Sabbath pew!
So we keep them covered over, and the Tory, with
disdain,
Sits upon this sombre secret, Why the People Go
Insane!
Well he knows the hidden reason, for the Worship of
the Cow
Keeps their brains upon the stagger, as the broken
victims bow !
In a land that’s labelled Christian, towards the
Madhouse see them go—
See the victims trudging Cow-ward, where the Village
Idiots Growl
Silent sits each solemn Tory on the dreadful Lid
of Shame —-
Like an idol melancholy served by helots weak and
lame !
For the Cow-yard breaks the reason, and the Hospi-
tals are crammed
With the persons whom the Tory in his eminence
has damned !
His the soil and all the acres where the Cow at
night and morn
Yields the pious Reason-Breakers wealth from mental
cripples torn !
His the splendor and the profit—this indeed I surely
know,
That the Cow is hailed as sacred Where the Village
Idiots Grow !
Year by year the tide is flowing—yea, it knows no
ebb or wane,
And the Hospitals are crowded with our Tory’s Own
Insane !
He it is who jerks the cripples towards the Coyr
at morn and eve,
For the Cow-bail is an Altar where the damned their
reason leave !
They are lost and given over—aye, their minds
hypothecate,
For the Tory’s sway is mighty in this Prehistoric
State !
He is Boss and he is Master —unto him the profits
flow,
Whilst his victims perish faster Where the Village
Idiots Grow !
These are reasons no one mentions—for it really
would not do
To annoy the pious Tory who infests the Sabbath
pew!
So we keep them covered over —but this low, infernal
Jones
Comes and asks for explanations, asks in loud, in-
sulting tones!
Well indeed may good men stagger—' “has it come to
this, that he
Is . employed, by US, the traitor !”—moans each
stricken M.L.C. !
In a land that’s labelled “Christian,” simply this I
surely know —
That the Cow is Baal and Rimmon Where the Vil-
lage Idiots Grow !
VICTORIA.
GRANT HERVEY.


A GROWN MAN WANTED.
THE TURK: “Well, praise be to Allah, the Commander of the Faithful didn’t depend on an army of schoolboys like
that fool, the Sultan of Australia! This isn’t any kids’ game.”


Brought to Bay
Are those enemies of civilisation, Indigestion and
Dyspepsia, when Dr. Sheldon’s Digestive Tabules
are employed; 2s. 6d. per tin of 80 Tabules.*
GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottln)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
WORLD-FAMED
For
QUALITY
HATS.
For
DURABILITY.
20th Century Moleskin.
Registered Trade Mark.
((WARRANTED PURE COTTON^
See that the above Registered Word and
Trade Mark are on and inside every garment.
Garments can be obtained at all Storekeepers.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
The position of Federal Attorney-General
Hughes is one that requires some active
dodging; but Hughes dodges brilliantly. He
is President of the Waterside Work-
ers Union, part of which is illegally on
strike, and he is also the person who may
yet be called upon to take strong measures
against the strikers. Some men would be
embarrassed, but Hughes doesn’t turn a
hair. The Bulletin hereby bets 2d. of its
hard-earned money that even if the situa-
tion becomes 10 times worse than it is,
Hughes will get through all right. With
sufficient diplomacy, a man might, at one
and the same time, be Pope and Boss
Orangeman.
South Aus. has decided to appoint Ameri-
can experts to advise about weirs and navi-
gation-locks on the Murray. With the con-
sent of the U.S. Government, “Captain”
Johnson will give four months of each year
to the work, which allows him about 50 days
in Australia each time. He gets £6OO
(about) for the first visit, and £5OO after-
wards. Also, he brings, and leaves in
charge, a resident engineer at £750 to carry
out his designs. Johnson is recommended
by Bixby, his chief, reputedly the finest
river-navigation expert in the world. (Bixby
is a “General.”) All the same, it is worth
remembering that the last time the
wonderful U.S.A. “experts” were allowed to
fool with the Murray, they made a surpris-
ing hash and muddle of things, and if the
State hadn’t intervened to save the work
from complete failure, there would have been
no Mildura settlement to-day.
EQUILIBRIUM.
New York, October 24.
A telegram from Killdevil Hill, North Carolina, re-
ports that Orville Wright, one of the famous pioneers
of aviation, had a narrow escape while aeroplaning
in that district yesterday. The glider of his
machine overturned while the aeroplane was in mid-
air, and the aviator fell with his machine to the
earth. Wright was picked up slightly injured. It
was a marvel that he was not killed.
A new mechanism has been designed to keep
aeroplanes at an even keel. Orville Wright is main-
taining secrecy regarding the results of the experi-
ment.
Sketch of Orville Wright busy maintaining
secrecy concerning his stability experiments.
The S. Aus. Hands Titles Office reckons it-
self the most militant crib in the Common-
wealth. Among a staff of 44 all told, there
are two majors, two lieutenants (signaller
and intelligence officer), three Red Cross
men, two light-horsemen, a bugler, five ser-
geants of cadets and seven miscellaneous.
In one way and another, they represent
eight distinct branches of the service.
Leandro Coy, who died the other day, was
one of the most likeable of Melbourne's mus-
ical men. Both he and his wife had done
great things in opera, and afterwards had a
good teaching connection, but his generosity
always kept his pocket empty. He had a
passion for helping pals in distress, and the
pals, some years ago, thought it was up to
them to do something for him; so a benefit
was arranged. He accepted the money—and
handed it over to a hospital which hap-
pened to mention that it was very hard up
at the moment.
There is a prospect of a joyous evening in
Adelaide. Tennyson Smith is due shortly
on a Prohibition campaign, and Paris Nes-
bit, Iv.C., has lured him on to a public de-
bate on the question. Nesbit told the
Liquor Trades picnic last week that “one
never sees a prohibitionist radiate happiness
around him—although, of course, Premier
Verran is an exception. God meant Mr.
Verran for a boniface, but lack of oppor-
tunity and of education made him a prohi-
bitionist.” Nesbit, of course, knew that the
comfortable-looking S.A. Premier has more
than once been taken, to his great disgust,
for a prosperous hotelkeeper.
The last will and testament of Charles
Franklin, of Munich. Bavaria, reminds one
that the Commonwealth’s absentee capital-
ists don’t all live in Hingland, and are not
necessarily Cohens of the bulldog breed.
Charles Franklin’s estate, sworn at
£283,000, consists wholly of shares in tiie
British Tobacco Co., Australia. Testator’s
bequests to friends and relatives included a
few thousands to the Kronheimers and Wcr-
theims, of Melbourne, and £3OOO or so to
Melbourne charities; but the great bulk of
Hie estate goes to relatives of Franklin, of
Munich, Bavaria, described in the Argus as
“a Melbourne merchant.”
Onslow, ex-Governor of Maoriland (1889
to 1892), who joined the great procession
between England and the Hereafter last
week, was one of the most capable men
that M.L. has had in the way of modern
Governors, and was popular as popularity
goes in the case of peregrinating aristo-
cracy. At different times he was Under-
secretary for the Colonies and India
(twice), President of the Board of Agri-
culture, an alderman of London, and Chair-
man of Committees in the House of Lords,
etc., since 1905. While the family was in
M.L. a son was added to it, and had the
name of “Hu.ia” tacked on to him by way
of a reminder. Also, he was made a chief
of one of the big North Island Maori tribes.
A few years back, being at an age to appre-
hend the proceedings, he journeyed from
Britain and was put through the necessary
rites and ceremonies amid jubilation and
fried shark. If the family was short of
money, which it isn’t, daughter Gwendolen
would be able to keep the wolf at a reason-
able distance. She married the son and
heir of Baron Iveagh, whose name is Guin-
ness and his business Stout.
Whitsitt, M.L.A., of Tasmania, who hurls
objurgations and motions of no-confidence at
the heads of his own “Liberal” party in Par-
liament, is the accepted butt of the Assem-
bly. He is personally popular despite (or,
perhaps, because) of his freakishness. He
smashes all the rules of the House twice a
week, but apologises with
such obvious contrition that
even the Speaker melts.
Whitsitt spent his youth as
a bank clerk in Tasmania
and elsewhere. He married
into a N.-W. Coast dynasty,
founded by one M’Quiggan,
who, in conjunction with
William Moor e—now
M.L.C., and the Speck’s
oldest living ex-Minister —
pioneered the saw-milling
industry in the old Emu Bay
district. His main business
in life these times is to pre-
serve the family estate of
his late pa-in-law from the
Socialistic tiger, and at the
same time secure as many
roads and bridges from the
Government as there is room
for in his district. It is
feared that there will one
day be so many roads in
Whitsitt’s district that there
will be no room for agriculture.
Donald Macdonell, Chief Secretary of
N.S.W., died last week in a Melbourne pri-
vate hospital of which he had long been an
inmate. He was a Victorian, so he passed
out in his own country. It was known for
months before he went that his case was
incurable, and death came as a happy release
from great suffering. Cobar was the de-
ceased’s first and last and only electorate,
it sent him to the Assembly unopposed in
1901; gave him a majority of 1083 (more
than two to one) in 1904; returned him un-
opp ised in 1907, and again in 1910. In
fact, during 10 years of political life, his
fatal disease was the only serious opponent
he met. When McGowen formed his Minis-
try in October, 1910, Macdonell became
Chief Secretary, but his illness came upon
him before he had time to leave much of a foot-
print on the sands of his new job. He left
behind him a notable reputation for capa-
city, honesty and high principle, and even his
worst political enemies dropped a flower on
his grave. He was not an old man, but Aus-
tralian politicians of the newer generation,
and especially the best class of politicians,
have developed an unfortunate habit of dy-
ing young. Some 30 years ago they were a
sluggish, casual lot who lived to a great age,
but the speed has increased greatly since
then, and the wearing process is very rapid.
ANOTHER BIG HAUL.
IST BURGLAR : “ Wot’s yer got, Bill? ” 2ND B URGLAR: “ Two gallery tickets for Melba!”
John Scaddan, Westralia's new Premier,
hails from Moonta (S.A.), and was a Kal-
goorlie miner before he entered Parliament.
He is a genial soul, with a lode of humor
that enables him to tell Cousin-Jack yarns
better than most. Like most Habor Pre-
miers, he is pious, and looks never upon the
beer when it is brown.
The oldest inhabitant of the Northern
Territory is Mr. Cleland, battery manager
at a Horseshoe Creek gold mine. Dr. Wool-
nough, geologist with the Commonwealth’s
scientific expedition to the Territory, met
this “magnificent-looking old man,” and
heard from one who knew him that he was
in the wreck of the Gothenburg, and saved
22 lives. His settlement in the Territory
dates back to 1864.
Australia has now produced an instructor
in flying. Young Busteed, who, some time
ago, left the Tarrant works in Melbourne to
learn ayiation in England, and was the first
Australian to get a certificate, is established
as one of the teachers at the Salisbury
I lams (Eng.) school. Eric Harrison,
Busteed s Melbourne shop-mate, went to the
Bristol works along with Busteed; but, until
lately, he devoted himself to the engineering
side of the business. Now, however, he too
has got his sky-skimmer’s certificate.
“Gwy” about a lately-departed :
Norman Selfe, like many another public-spirited
professional man, died poor, in spite of his busy
life of nearly 72 years. It was his misfortune that
engineers, and in a lesser degree medical men, give,
and are therefore customarily expected to give, their
brains for nothing, while lawyers never fail to ex-
act their fee. An eminent civil engineer may sit
day after day on a City Improvement Comnr'ssion
without any remuneration, but a K.C. will not un-
dertake his little bit toward the consolidation of
the Statutes unless he has his refresher. Norman
Selfe, who_ looked like a Little Wise Man out of a
German fairy tale, and was about as kindlv and. un-
affected, was pretty absent-minded; and ' I suspect
his absent-mindedness extended to big things as
well as small. It never occurred to him that he was
foolishly generous. And in his case, the State, be-
sides being a loafer, appears as a polite swindler.
His North Shore bridge design won the competition
promoted by the See-O’Sullivan Government, aet he
never received the prize ( £1100), and the Car-
ruthers Government, when reminded of the debt, loftily
declined to be bound by the engagements of its pre-
decessors—an attitude which, to say the least, is
disconcerting to those who hold the public securi-
ties of the Ma State. Disappointment over this busi-
ness clouded Selfe’s last years. He had won the
£llOO prize, and the liability was repudiated, and
he was out of pocket to the extent of fully £llOO
in preparing the design, for he put his best work
into the plans, which, as a piece of civil engineer-
ing, were probably worth . £20,000. And, as the
bridge was never built, he did not get the commis-
sion which would have been paid him by the
builders. Meanwhile, his practice perforce suffered
through neglect; and when he returned to it he was
older than the mere lapse of years made him. Alto-
gether, I fancy the State does owe him something
,-WKer the nice perception of politicians acknow-
ledges it or not.
The young Australian engineer is still
finding honor out of his own country. Oli-
ver Jagcr, a Ballarat mining-school gradu-
ate, who has been poking about in Mexico,
has caught the eye of a Pierpont Morgan
syndicate, which has sent him down to
Peru, at £lOOO a year and a few extras,
a. J. Balfour, the Fogland’s Tory leader,
is likely to find himself squeezed out of his
big Maoriland estate near Pahiatua. There
is a strong local demand that the country
should be cut up for closer settlement, and
Ward has been talking so severely of late
about the blocking of settlement that the
Balfour capital may be compelled to flee
the Dominion at any momefit.
The latest yarn about Dowieism is that
Elijah’s widow is founding tt fresh Zion city
somewhere in Michigan. She is to be assisted
ay ier Son ’ the un kissed Gladstone, who was
a ?°. rt of lieutenant to the old man when the
on^ nal Uj on was booming. America is the
most fertile of. soils for Alley religions, but
ow ,\ e s . Christian Catholic Church of
/jlon en o e( i amid such an evil smell that its
att empted revival by the new firm doesn't
look Poising.
Adams, a Bulletin and Lone
Hand contributor who has waded through
Australia with circuses and cinemato-
graphs, dabbled in many things, and mixed
in much company, is now assailing the
Commonwealth with a book “That Uncle
d r °“ o Fi ji,” in which the multifarious take-
downs that bloat on the gentle and in-
g'CIIUOUS Australian are exposed by print
and picture. Adams explains how every-
thing and everybody is done. Nothing in
& “ a i“« . of „ f a „ s » i .S *
? ke ea » e^ nes S the heads and guns to
ooy up the book should guarantee it a tre-
mendous sale.
“Harrison O.” : A collection of Oscar
Wilde’s autograph MSS. was auctioned at
Sotheby’s, the other day. “The Soul of
jyf an ” tbp third chanter of “The Picture of
47 L,;, n rU 'j L ' 1 P el , -Lne LlCture O!
Honan Grey, and an early draft of “The
Uphmx all fetched three-figure prices,
Among the MSS., curiously enough, was
Wilde’s sonnet, “On the Sale by Auction of
Keats’ Love Letters” (the letters were sold
ab Sothehv’s on March 2 1883) which
luarcn WUICII
De ‘- as •
These are the letters which Endymion wrote
To one he loved in secret and apart,
And now the brawlers of the auction mart
Bargain and bid for each poor blotted note,
THE CULT OF THE INCREDIBLE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
At every election Labor registers its whole voting
strength, and between elections the managers of the
organisations toil ceaselessly and tirelessly to in-
crease their strength. —Melbourne Age.
II hat would you think of one who claimed
That, on the cricket field,
He’d always bowled his very best,
And, also (while folks reeled,
In speechless wonder) bowled far more
Superbly than he had before?
Or, say, I told you of a pug
Who, in the hempen square,
Did all that in him lay to thrash
His adversary there,
Then, straight, put up a scrap so stark
It made the first look like a lark?
You’d say that Rot was in the air;
That such things could not be ;
That black was never white; that two
And two could not make three.
And you would be, in this respect,
Quite indisputably correct.
N.S.W.
10-2-4.


13
L
/
m
111111%%
urn
SE-Hiitl
Only Eight Weeks to Christmas.
YES ; it’s only eight weeks to Christmas. We are already very busy on Christmas orders,
although we keep twelve cutters constantly going. You should get your Christmas Suit in
hand at once, and you can rely on our guarantee to give you the utmost satisfaction in finish,
wear, quality and comfort. We have the most complete range of all kinds of Summer-time suitings,
specialising in Australian, as instanced by the well-known Vicars “ All Wool Marrickville
Tweeds. We quote the Austral to Measure (machine-made), 635., 705., 755. ; the Austral Special
(hand-made), 845., 905., 955., 105 s. Drop in on us during the week. If you cannot call, a Post-
card will bring you self-measurement form and patterns.
Tho fashions new old modes displace
Our Austral youths need not regret ;
For Gowing s, still ’ the dainty grace
Of former times do not forget.
Our stalwart youths , supremely blest ,
A t Yule-tide know no doubts or fears ;
In Gowing s latest style they re dressed
More fitly than in former years.
GOWING Bros,
486, 488 & 490 George Street; & 7, 9.
11, 13, 15 & 17 Royal Arcade, Sydney.


WORTHINGTON POMPS HI
—For
SERVICES.
GAS ENGINES and PLANTS, OIL ENGINES, CONDENSING APPARATUS.
Am.v 32-34 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
PERKS, DANE & CO. PTY. LTD.
MELBOURNE
and SYDNEY.
“P.D.” Grease & “P.D.” Yarn
90 per cent, cheaper than any other system of lubrication.
FULL PARTICULARS ON APPLICATION. Sole Agents for Queensland, E.S.C.A., Ltd., Brisbane.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
National Bank op Australasia (Melbourne):
•Net Ord. Pref. To Re- Re-
Profits. 3J p.c. 5 p.c. serves, serves.
5ept.,1904.. £36,950 £20,868 £7644 £8,438 £114,269
Mar., 1905.. 36,130 20,868 7644 7,618 121,887
4 p.c.
Sept., 1905.. 36,104 23,849 7644 4.611 126,498
Mar., 1906.. 41,144 23,849 7644 9,651 136,149
44 p.c.
Sept., 1906,. 44,982 26,830 7644 10,508 146,657
5 p.c.
Mar., 1907.. 48,158 29,811 7644 10,703 157,360
Sept., 1907.. 49,943 29,811 7644 12,488 169,848
Mar., 1908.. 42,305 29,811 7644 4,850 174,698
Sept., 1908.. 49,017 29,811 7644 11,662 186,260
Mar., 1909.. 59,170 29,811 7644 21,715 207,975
6 p.c. 6 p.c.
5ept.,1909.. 59.390 35,773 9173 14,444 222,419
Mar., 1910.. 60,564 35,773 9173 15,618 238,037
Sept., 1910.. 60,392 35,773 9173 15,446 253,483
Mar., 1911.. 66,815 35,773 9173 21,869 275,352
Sept., 1911.. 63,053 35,773 9173 15,107 293,469
There is a profit of £63,053 for the half-year after
writing £5OOO off premises and making the offi-
cers’ provident fund a grant of £2OOO. Even
after those cuts into the profit, the joint is 75 p.c.
juicier than the one that was served up only seven
years ago. This is a very extraordinary perform-
ance indeed. A few years ago the bank may have
been furtively dropping a few sovereigns into the
stocking to make up for a few assets of doubtful
value which were left over when the bank had its
cleaning up after the boom; and, of course, that
would diminish the visible profits of those days.
But, while that might explain some of the very big
difference between the visible profits of to-day and
of a few years, back, there are plenty of other
things to help in the explanation. Consider this,
for instance: —
Liabilities.
1901. 1911.
Notes £288,448 £102,732
Bills, etc 1,069,081 964,904
Government deposits.. 434,779 996,005
Private deposits .. 5,635,800 9,651,678.
Assets.
Liquid (coin, etc.) . 2,920,814 3,552,142
Advances .. .. 5,225,288 9,550,754
Bank premises.. .. 449,697 411,259
Oiher properties .. 432,233 44,825
That shows over 82 p.c. more advances out now
than there were 10 years ago; and advances are
the things a bank makes its money with —-it can’t
make it by taking deposits and shutting them up
in a safe. But advances are also the things a bank
makes losses with; and obviously the bank which
has rushed out most money during a period of high
values is the most likely to be struck heavily when
the slump comes. This paper admits cheerfully
that the National may be in no danger at all; in
spite of its big rush of advances, it may have pro-
vided for a large shrinkage in values by insisting
upon a wide margin between what the security was
alleged to be worth and what the bank would ad-
vance upon it. You can’t tell whether it is so or
not from the accounts; you can only tell when the
security is thrown on the bank’s hands (and you
can’t always tell then), and that may be years
afterwards. At present all that can be said is
that, unless the management has been exceedingly
cautious, this bank is liable to presently have large
losses unless the weather conditions and produce
markets remain as highly favorable as they have
been lately.
Reviewing the past 12 months’ movements, these
results show up:—
Sept.,’lo. Sept.,’ll.
Notes in circulation £295,453 £102,732 Dec. £192,721
Bills, etc 1.219,741 964,940 Dec. 244,801
Free deposits .. 3,460,962 4,059,057 Inc. 628,125
Deposits at interest 6,107,459 6,558,595 Inc. 451,136
Liquid assets .. 3,930,363 3,552,142 Dec. 378,221
Advances .. .. 8,470,465 9,550,754 Inc. 1,050,289
Premises .. .. 477,438 456,084 Dec. 21,354
A further extraordinary increase in advances has
taken place. This has involved a further drain on
liquid assets, with the result that the latter repre-
sent only 30 p.c. of the liabilities to the public—■
an exceptionally low proportion. Standing by it-
self, the figure does not look well. It suggests that
the bank is trading to the utmost limit of its
powers. The policy may be sound; at the same
time, there are very experienced bankers who prefer
to keep themselves in a position to presently
grant considerable further assistance to valuable
clients who will certainly want more assistance if
they are hit by a droughty season or two. And if
the droughty season isn’t here there are at least the
serious beginnings of one; in the most important
wheat belt of N. S. Wales the harvest will certainly
be not one-half as affluent as last year’s, and may
be a worse failure even than that.
In spite of the fact that the National of Austral-
asia has the use of about £6 10s. of the pub-
lic’s money for every £ 1 of its own, and in spite
also of the other fact that it is actually employing
so large a proportion of the money, the earnings
are not very large. This shows what they are in
proportion to capital and reserves combined:—
Mar., 1908.. £5 1 5 p.c. Mar., 1910.. £7 0 8 p.c.
5ept.,1908.. 517 2 „ 5ept.,1910.. 613 1 ~
Mar., 1909.. 619 7 ~ Mar., 1911.. 712 6 ~
Sept-.,1909.. 619 3 „ 5ept.,1911.. 7 2 2 „
That may mean that the bank is doing only first-
class business, and prefers a low rate of interest
and small risks to a high rate and big risks. A
low or comparatively low return doesn’t, however,
always mean anything so satisfactory; but the true
explanation isn’t to be gathered from the figures.
* * * *
The Royal Bank of Queensland (Brisbane):—
Writ-
Dividends and ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves.
Dec., ’04.. £9,569 3£ p.c. - £8,427 £1142 £64,782
June,’os.. 9,673 3£ „ ~ 8,463 1210 65,992-
Dec., ’05.. 9,896 3| „ ~ 8,468 1428 67,420
June,’o6.. 10,016 3| „ „ 8,468 1548 68,968
Dec., ’06.. 10,933 4 ~ ~ 9,711 £l5OO 68,690
June,’o7.. 11,246 4 „ ~ 9,790 1456 70,146
Deo., ’07.. 12,626 4£ ~ ~ 11,162 1000 464 70,610
Mar., ’OB.. 6.305 4i „ ~ 5,709 596 71,206
Sept.,’oB.. 12.768 U „ ~ 11,597 1171 72,377
Mar., ’09.. 12,707 4i ~ ~ 1.1,719 988 73,365
Sept.,’o9.. 12,826 4i „ „ 11,864 962 74,327
Mar., ’lO.. 13,211 4i ~ „ 12,100 1111 75,438
Sept.,TO.. 13,338 „ „ 12,228 1110 76,548
Mar., ’ll.. 15,137 5 ~ ~ 13,746 1000 391 76,939
Sept.,’ll.. 15,586 5 „ „ 13,931 1500 155 77,094
On a surface inspection this bank would deserve to
be spoken to severely, because it only puts £155
to reserves, while it divides £13,931 among its
shareholders. It seems very probable, though, that
the sausage is a good deal better than you would
judge by its overcoat. The Royal of Queensland
suffered severely from the northern State’s bad
break of 18 years ago, and it wasn’t in a position
to make good the losses by writing down capital, or,
at an} rate, it didn’t do it. And seeing that it, ad-
mittedly, didn’t do it out of capital, the manage-
ment has had to do it out of profits as they were
made. That, no doubt, explains why the disclosed
profits have never been much in excess of the divi-
dend ; anything more that was made went into the
sink. Unfortunately, the public doesn’t know how
much more the sink will take; the old shrunken
assets may have been by this time written down to
their real value, or they may still be considerably
overvalued. Latterly, however, the management has
been openly putting by a bit to a contingency fund
(in the table these amounts are shown as written
off) ; and that may be a hint that the past trans-
gressions have been just about wiped out, and that
the management thinks it is now in a position to
provide for some future o-rtes. The wisdom of
making some such provision is undoubted. Queens-
land is phenomenally prosperous at present. The
average business drummer says that he is kept
writing harder in Brisbane just now than in any
other part of Australia. But nobody who knows how
dependent Queensland is upon the uncertain seasons,
expects that things can keep up to their present
level. And the trouble in Queensland is that in a
bad year there is not merely a great shrinkage in
production ; there is also a groat actual loss of pro-
ductive assets—sheep and cattle. Consequently, if
it is laying by some of the present fat, this bank is
no more prudent than we should expect it to be
on its record of the past 12 or 15 years.
Detailed figures may be shown as follows
Sept.. TO. Sept.,’ll.
Bills and notes .. £42,090 £37,069 Dec. £5,021
Deposits, etc. .. 1,398.152 1,470,871 Inc. 72,719
Liquid assets .. 645,783 606.975 Dec. 38.808
Advances .. .. 1,333,29.1 1,451.983 Inc. 118,692
Premises .. .. 69,180 74,492 Inc. 5,312
Capital is £532,984 ; add the reserves, and you will
find that for every £1 of the shareholders’ funds
the bank holds not quite £2 10s. of public money.
This small holding of public money means very
solid security for the depositors and other creditors,
and comparatively small risks for the shareholders ;
for, of course, the shareholders have to stand the
racket if the depositors’ money is lost; wherefore,
the smaller the proportion of depositors’ money the
smaller everybody’s risk. On the other hand,
profits are naturally smaller too. Calculated on
capital and reserves combined, they have lately
worked out like this: —
Dec., 1907.. £4 12 7 p.c. Mar., 1910.. £4 911 p.c.
Sept., 1908.. 411 9 „ Sept., 1910.. 4 9 9,,
Mar., 1909.. 4 9 0., Mar., 1911.. 510,,
Sept., 1909.. 4 8 3 „ Sept., 1911.. 5 2 2 „
Even of the comparatively little public money
which the bank holds, just over 40 p.c. is kept in
liquid form ; and that also helps to keep the earn-
ings low, though it gives further strength to the
bank’s position. A bank can’t make big immediate
profits that way, but it can thus avoid disaster, and
it can also keep itself in a position to give help to
its clients when help is most needed. Altogether,
then, in spite of the very small amount of profits
added to visible reserves, and in spite of some doubt
as to whether the assets are yet worth their full
book-value, the accounts on the whole leave a plea-
sant taste in the mouth.
* * * *
The Colonial Bank of Australasia (Mel-
bourne) t
Divs. on To Re- Re-
Profits. All Shares. serves, serves.
Mar., 1904.. £19,117 sp.c. = £10,967 £8,150 £62,763
Sept,, 1904.. 18,287 5„ „ 10,967 7,320 70,083
Mar., 1905.. 19,320 5,, ~ 10,967 8,353 78,436-
Sept., 1905.. 18,314 5 „ ~ 10,977 7,337 85,773
Mar., 1906.. 19,405 5,, ~ 10,982 8,423 94,196
Sept., 1906.. 19,578 6,, ~ 13,178 6,400 100,596
Mar., 1907.. 22,086 6 ~ ~ 13,178 8,908 109,504
Sept., 1907.. 19,532 6,, ~ 13,178 6,354 115,858
Mar., 1908.. 23,205 6 „ ~ 13,178 10,027 125,885
1 23.501 6 ~ „ 13,178 1
Sept., 1908.. •< Voted for Provident V 323 126,208
( Fund, £10,00') J
Mar., 1909.. 22,710 7 p.c. = 15,375 7,335 133,543
Sept., 1909.. 19,293 7,, ~ 15,375 3,918 137,461
Mar., 1910.. 23,417 7 ~ „ 15,375 8,042 145,503
Sept., 1910.. 23,509 7 „ ~ 15,375 8,134 153,637
Mar., 1911.. 23,708 7 „ „ 15,375 8,333 161,970
Sept., 1911.. 24,626 7 „ „ 15,375 9,251 171,221
Unless this bank is putting something by where it
can’t be seen, the growth of reserves in these times
is none too rapid, and the position would have looked
better if the directors had been content with 6 p.c.
for some time longer. Unfortunately, the stupid
public doesn’t always give the proper reward to
the bank that practises such self-denial; in fact,
there are depositors who would apparently rather
leave their money with a bank which dips deeply into
the chest every half-year to pay big dividends, than
with one which prefers to take a little itself and
leave more in the stocking. This particular bank
certainly can’t complain of want of support. It
has now got £6 13s. of the public’s money (de-
posits, etc.) for every £1 of its own (capital and
reserves), and it isn’t usually considered prudent to
go beyond 7 to 1; hence, if deposits continue to
increase, the management will have to consider the
question of getting in more capital. It could either
issue more shares, for which it has authority, or
call up more capital on the ordinary shares.
The latter, £1 15s. paid, are liable for another
£2 10s. Still, this isn’t a matter that calls for
instant attention.
Besides having a large holding of the public’s
money, the bank makes use of a pretty large propor-
tion of it in ordinary banking business. Deposits
and all other liabilities total £4,068,451, and liquid
assets of all kinds amount to £1,334,531; thus the
reserve against the debt to the public amounts to
under 33 p.c., which is on the small side, and sug-
gests that the bank couldn’t do much more busi-
ness on its present resources if it wanted to—or,
anyhow, couldn’t do it safely. This shows the posi-
tion and the year’s movements in detail:—
Sept.,TO. Sept.,’ll.
Notes in circulation £117,352 £39,799 Dec. £77,553
Bills in circulation,
etc. .. .. 233,737 239,027 Inc. 5,290
Free deposits .. 1,351,249 1,387,826 ' Inc. 36,577
Deposits at interest 2,142,446 2,401,799 Inc. 259,253
Liquid assets .. 1,302,434 1,334,531 Inc. 32,097
Advances .. .. 2,928,324 3,145,503 Inc. 217,179
Premises, etc. .. 223,319 215,294 Dec. 8,025
Thus during the 12 months the bank’s liabilities
have increased by £223,669—that is to say, it has
got £223,669 more of the public’s money into the
business —and it has lent out £217,179. So, except
for a mere five or six thousand pounds, it has lent out
all the money received. The wisdom of it is very
doubtful. Things may, of course, turn out all right;
but supposing the seasons should change, or some
other trouble should strike Australia, so that de-
posits would be withdrawn and increased advances
legitimately asked for, the Colonial’s position might
not be any too comfortable. Nor might its clients’.
In fact, the position of clients, seeking further
accommodation and unable to get it, might be
worse than the bank’s. Of course, the bank may
see a way out. For instance, it may have on loan
a large amount, which can be called in quickly
without imposing any hardship. Such things natur-
ally don’t transpire from the accounts.
Having the use of so much outside capital, the
profits naturally are fairly substantial. Calculated
on capital and reserves combined, they look like
this: —
Mar., 1908.. £8 7 2 p.c. Mar., 1910.. £8 2 4 p.c.
5ept.,1908.. 719 3 ~ Sept., 1910.. 8 0 9,,.
Mar., 1909.. 8 0 7 „ Mar., -1911.. 8 0 0 „
5ept.,1909.. 614 8 ~ 5ept.,1911.. 8 310 „
From that return it is a fair thing to assume
that the assets are reckoned to be a solid and pro-
fitable lot, which are earning good interest.
Whether they really are, no man can, however, tell.
The directors will know more about it seven years
hence.
* * * *
The Savings Bank of Victoria
Ex- Written Re-
June, Earnings. Interest, penses. Off. serves.
1903.. £326,999 £216,503 £49,618 £19,913 £215,636
1904.. 347,955 265,616 49,445 19,039 224,491
1905.. 368,285 273,646 50,535 32,279 241,316
1906.. 388,279 287,686 51,636 14,040 276,227
1907.. 417,984 310,935 65,400 15,886 311,990
1908.. 456,727 332,951 58,069 16,355 361,342
1909.. 455,424 365,188 59,924 9,703 411.951
1910.. 538,697 413,733 64,499 38,111 434,305
1911.. 591,359 468,251 71,528 17,257 468,658
This Savings Bank—-a Government institution,
managed by an inspector-general and a Board of
Commissioners—has two departments—the Savings
Bank proper and the Advances Department, the
latter mainly concerned with that important person,
the cocky. These remarks, and the table on top of
them, relate to the Savings Bank proper. The main
difference between them is that the Savings Bank
takes deposits direct from the public, and invests
the money in Government debentures, mortgages,
fixed deposits, and otherwise, while the Advances
Department gets its funds by issuing debentures and
mortgage bonds. The Savings Bank is, however,
the largest individual holder of these securities. Of
£1,822,270 owing by the Advances Department on
June 30, a total of £882,800 was chalked up to the
credit of the Savings Bank, and £939,470 to the
credit of other people.
As before remarked, the bank gets its money
direct from depositors, whose total credit balance
has moved along in this brisk way:—
1900 .. ..£9,110,792 1906 .. .£11,764,179
1901 .. .. 9,662,006 1907 .. .. 12,792,590
1902 .. .. 10,131,604 1908 .. .. 13,428,076
1903 .. .. 10,341,857 1909 .. .. 14,101,710
1904 .. .. 10,582,808 1910 .. .. 15,417,888
1905 . . . . 10,896,741 1911 . . . . 17,274,424
The amount has just doubled itself since 1899. The
interest allowed to the public varies; but for over
30 years the maximum deposit entitled to any in-
terest at all has been £250. Since the beginning
of 1911, 3J p.c. has been allowed on deposits up
to £lOO, and 3 p.c. on the next £l5O. The aver-
age paid last year on depositors’ total balances was
£2 18s. Id. p.c. Of the funds—deposits and re-
serves combined —slightly over 50 p.c. has been
lent to the State on debentures. The chief invest-
ments now and 10 years ago compare as follows: —
1901. 1911.
Government debentures . . £1,330,488 £9,358,521
Treasury deposits .. 3,675,417 761,006
Advances Department . . 853,018 866,379
Mortgages . . . . 1,176,955 1,753,377
City and Board of Works
debentures . . . . 357,110 1,152,030
Fixed deposits . . . . 1,705,451 3,344,099
Premises 132,914 200,000
Foreclosed properties . . 319,149 35,000
Other assets . . .. 252,962 282,394
Total £9,803,464 £17,752,806
It will thus be seen that almost all the money
deposited by the public during the past 10 years
has been lent to the State or other public bodies:
the comparatively small amount which has not been
absorbed in that way has gone to the private banks
as fixed deposits.
It is deplorable that a much larger sum has not
been taken directly by the people who want assist-
ance in productive industries. That, however, is not
the fault of the bank, which is not authorised to do
ordinary banking business at present; and no mat-
ter how desirable a person a manufacturer may be,
he cannot get assistance as a manufacturer. Cer-
tainly the chief function of a Savings Bank is to
offer absolutely safe security to the man of small
means, giving him, at the same time, reasonable
interest for his money; but the State is also pro-
foundly interested in helping various people with
cheap money. The private banks have done and are
doing a great service; but they make anything up
to 15 p.c. while they do it, and there are some
things so desirable from the public point of view
that the State ought to see that a man gets the
money for such things at absolutely cost price. For
instance, a man wants a home. A bank or other
private mortgage concern will help him to get it,
but it will want to make a profit on the transac-
tion: in other words, it will want to add to the
difficulties of that man in getting a home. The
State doesn’t want to, make a profit; therefore it
and it alone is in a position to pass money on to
such a borrower at cost price—for the interest
paid, that is,:‘i olus management exes, plus a trifle to
cover contingencies. The State has done a great
deal to encourage thrift and saving. But the de-
positor can now look after himself for a while. The
man who could make good use of an advance of
cheap money now calls for much more attention than
the figures suggest that he has had.
Tooth and Co., Ltd., brewers, etc., Sydney:—
Net To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Mar 1904.. £43,414 Bp.c. = £36,000 £7,414 £155,942
Sept.’, 1904.. 37,570 8 „ „ 36,000 1,570 157,612
Mar 1905.. 46,964 8 „ „ 36,000 10,964 168,476
Sept., 1905.. 37,394 8 „ 36,000 1,394 169,8.0
Mar., 1906.. 46,532 8 ~ ~ 36,000 10,532 180,402
Sept., 1906.. 38,286 8 „ „ 36,000 2,286 182,688
Mar., 1907.. 45,156 8 „ „ 36,000 9,156 191,844
Sept., 1907.. 53,889 10 „ „ 45,000 8,889 200,733
Mar, 1908.. 75,071 10 „ „ 45,000 30,071 230,804
Sept., 1908.. 62,904 10 „ „ 45,000 17,904 ’118,708
Mar., 1909.. 75,372 10 „ „ 45,000 30,372 279,080
Sept., 1909.. 64,123 10 „ „ 45,000 19,123 ‘198,203
Mar., 1910.. 78,382 10 ~ ~ 45,0u0 33,382 331,585
Sept., 1910.. 71,330 10 ~ „ 45,000 26,330 857,915
Transferred to Capital, £lOO,OOO .. 257,915
Mar., 1911. 107,833 lOp.c. = 50,000 57,833 315,748
Sept., 1911.. 99,732 10 ~ „ 50,000 49,732 365,480
From April to September Sydney’s tongue doesn’t
hang out as far as it does during the otner half of
the year, and brewery profits are consequently less,
as a rule. Yet for the past six months the net
profits were over £99,000. Six months ago, when
so very big a jump was noted in the returns, some
people wondered whether there had been any lucky
fluke. The present figures suggest that there was no
fluke, but that the management has been practically
obliged to raise the level of declared profits. Pre-
viously the directors had, no doubt, been putting
something up their sleeve, and it looks as though
the sleeve at last got so heavy that they found it
uncomfortable. They may be still putting a bit
up, for all we know. Certainly, if the co. is making
£200,000 a year and no more now, it will make
a good deal less than £200,000 in a few years to
come, because it is practically impossible for condi-
tions to be always so phenomenally favorable to big
brewery profits as they are to-day. For the hundred
or two who feel that things are so good that they
can afford a motor-car, a hundred thousand or two
feel that things are so good that they can afford an
extra pint. Nevertheless, even if this company s
profits do slump and slump badly, the 10 p.c div.
looks very safe; for during the past 12 months it has
absorbed less than half the profits. And the longer
the present burst of prosperity lasts, and the bigger
the growth of the heap of reserves, disclosed and
undisclosed, the easier will be the job of maintain-
ing the dividend. What progress has been made
in the last few years this table shows: —
1901. 1911.
Liabilities .. .. .. £18,883 £37,197
Brewery plant and properties 672,294 762,981
Book debts .. .. .. 196,153 200,451
Stock 77,585 123,948
Liquid assets .. .. 139,313 370,297
So in 10 years the surplus of liquid assets (deposits
and bank balances) has put on no less than £212,670
to its bloated girth, notwithstanding a huge expendi-
ture on brewery premises and other properties, and
an addition of nearly £50,000 to stock. Meantime
no capital has been got in; so it is very evident
that the co. has had a lot to spare over and above the
dividend —£30,000 a year at the very least. Never-
theless, there is a fly even in this beer! Granted that
the Wowser will never be in the majority, the fact
remains that tens of thousands who are not Wowsers
want to clip the wings of the liquor trade, and the
undoubted tendency is to shut up hotels and thus
destroy the “trade” value of the premises ; and this
co owns many of those premises. Also, the national-
isation of the liquor business, though it may not
happen this year or next, is at least a possibility that
has to be taken into account.
* * * *
The Castlemaine Brewery and Wood Bros,
and Co. (Newcastle, N.S.W.):—
Nominal
Written To Re- Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves. serv< s
1901.. £13,093 4 p.C. = £lO,OOO £3OOO a'93 £41,983
1902.. 13.185 4 ~ ~ 10,000 3000 ISS 42,168
1903.. 13,080 4 ~ „ 10,000 3000 80 42,248
1904.. 13.022 4 ~ ~ 10,000 3000 22 42,270
1905.. 13,000 4 ~ ~ 10,000 3000 42,270
1906.: 15,019 4 ~ ~ 10,000 3000 2019 44,289
1907.. 15,522 4 ~ ~ 10,000 3500 2022 46.311
1908.. 14,754 4 ~ ~ 10,000 2500 2854 48.565
1909.. 13,767 4 ~ ~ 10,000 3000 767 49,332
1910.. 13,387 4 ~ ~ 10,000 2250 1137 50,469
1911.. 10,346 4 ~ ~ 10,000 346 50,815
Either the investing public is a fool, or the accounts
issued by this co. are a serious reflection cm the law
which permits such things to be issued. The public
says the whole outfit is worth about £137,500. That
means that, in the public view, not only are there
no reserves whatever, but almost half of the capital
is unrepresented by assets. The published accounts,
however, continue to show assets representing all
the capital and all the reserves mentioned above.
Probably to disguise the true position, most of the
assets are thrown into one heap—“ Freehold and
leasehold properties, buildings, machinery, plant,
goodwill, rolling stock, etc., £263,400.” Goodwill
may stand for £160,000, or only £15,000; and,
anyway, in a case of this kind it is mere pad-
ding. For practical purposes, the balance-sheet is
worth just nothing at all. It gives not the faintest
idea of the real value of the co.’s possessions. The
public may be all wrong, and instead of there being
£160,000 or so of padding in the accounts, there
may be only £50,000. Or there may be £200,000.
A few insiders know ; the general body even of share-
holders don’t. And if the insiders liked to take ad-
vantage of their knowledge, they could, no doubt,
make themselves rich at the expense of the others.
Probably the directors are not people of that sort.
But if directors year after year permit their names
to go out attached to such accounts, and make no
visible attempt to clean up things, and say nothing
about a valuation of assets, uncharitable people are
bound to draw uncharitable conclusions. And when
shareholders see a strenuous rush of people—as in
this case—to get seats on a Board, they may, at
least, be permitted to ask why there is such a de-
mand for a private view behind the scenes. No
doubt it may be simply that the aspirants want
a chance to let shareholders and the public know
the real strength of the position; but, if so, how
much longer are shareholders and the public to wait ?
For the past year profits are alleged to have
been £10,346. In 1907 they were said to be
£15,522. Even comparing the past year’s results
with those of its predecessor, there is a shrinkage
of about 25 p.c. This ought to mean that business
has either fallen off or been far less profitable re-
cently. It may, however, merely mean that a larger
sum has recently been written off against deprecia-
tion, or that over-valued assets have been written
down more severely. These almost worthless ac-
counts don’t enable one to say which it is. For
what they are worth these movements are noted: —
1901. 1910. 1911.
Liabilities to public .. £68,307 £69,565 £69,855
Properties, croodwill, plftnt,
etc. 215,922 258,168 263.400
Freeholds (special account) 41.848 47,138 48,52 S
Sundry debtors .. .. 77.348 39,667 37,361
Bills, cash, etc 6.826 10,463 6,205
Stock 26,346 21,849 20,177
Receipts .. .. .. 61,716 49,797 46,231
Expenses (including provi-
sion for bad debts) .. 48,623 36,410 35,855
Receipts from all sources are apparently shrinking,
in spite of the alleged increase of properties, etc. ;
and that calls for explanation. In fact, everything
calls for explanation.
* * * ♦
The United Insurance Co. (fire and marine),
of Sydney:—
Written To Re- Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1899.. £7,302 5 p.c. =£3,411 £3,891 £88,161
1900.. 10,267 10 „ ~ 6,823 3,444 91,605
1901.. 13,809 10 „ „ 6,823 £8560 90,031
1902.. 23,102 10 „ ~ 6,823 16,279 106,310
1903.. 21,686 12£ „ „ 8,528 212 12,946 119,256
1904.. 21,376 „ ~ 8,528 365 12,483 131,739
1905.. 21,603 12| ~ „ 9,673 4712 7,218 138,957
1906.. 20,032 12£ ~ ~ 10,675 9,357 148,314
1907.. 16,855 12£ „ ~ 10,675 6,180 154,494
1908.. 13,531 J2£ ~ ~ 10,675 2,856 157,350
1909.. 11,353 12i ~ ~10,675 113 565 157,915
1910.. 15,250 12£ „ ~10,675 4,5/5 162,490
1911.. 24,650 I2jf ~ „ 10,675 13,975 176,465
Though we are all honorable men, as Brutus was,
yet somehow the fire and marine insurance office is
much more apt to show big profits when times are
prosperous, than when buildings are hard to let
and freights hard to find for ships. For the past
year, at any rate, this old-established and (until
lately) not very hustling office, has, like most, if
not all of the others, done remarkably well. This
shows what a favorable loss rate it has had: —-
Pre- Ex- Loss Expense
miums. Losses, penses. Rate. Rate.
1895.. £58,499 £32,855 £19,580 56’2 p.c. 33‘5 p.c.
1900.. 70,779 38,589 25,296 54 5 ~ 357 „
1905.. 88,609 42,250 35,832 477 ~ 40'4 „
1907.. 95,620 46,350 39,822 485 ~ 41'6
1908.. 98,493 51,012 41,942 51 "8 ~ 42'5 ~
1909.. 100,713 52,746 44,535 52‘3 ~ 44'2 ~
1910.. 111,906 55,094 49,276 49'2 „ 44‘0 „
1911.. 117,483 47,800 53,214 407 „ 45'3 „
Probably the new accident and workmen’s com-
pensation business has had some effect on the year’s
figures, tending to put the loss rate down and the
expense rate up. But that may not last; anyhow,
it is a very common experience that the claims
under these policies grow after the first few years.
That happened in England after workmen’s com-
pensation came into force there, and in N. S. Wales
in connection with the Miners’ Accident Relief
Fund. It doesn’t mean malingering; it simply
means that employers gradually realise that they
have to pay premiums, and, therefore, knock a man
off if, having met with some accident, he is for the
time being not right up to the mark. It may be
taken for granted, however, that this co.’s fire and
marine business is still by far the bigger end of
the log. And it deserves the business even in
competition with the very best offices the foreigner
can send us. Its capital and reserves combined are
£261,867; its net premium income last year was
£117,483. Thus the funds amount to 222.9 p.c. of the
year’s premiums. Of the 20 greatest British fire cos. the
net premium income last year was £25,209,973, and
the total capital and reserves £41,411,269; so the
average funds of the British offices was 164.2 p.c.
of the risks —as against the much stronger 222.9 p.c.
of this Australian office. Apart from all questions
of patriotism, and disregarding the commercial ad-
vantage of keeping the money in the country and
building up our own investments, there is thus a
very solid reason why preference should be Riven to
the office whose headquarters are here, and whose
management we know. And whose investments we
know also. In this case the invested funds now
amount to £261,027, of which all but £61,362 in
freehold and £8289 in mortgages is represented by
deposits and public securities. Naturally, with such
investments, the interest earnings are not high.


ABSOLUTE SECURITY for
and EFFICIENCY of
TRUST MANAGEHENT
can only be obtained
by appointing....
Perpetual Trustee
Company (Limited)
as
Trustees, Executors,
Administrators, &c.
Write to or Call at
2, 4 and 6 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY,
for information.
A. J. MACKENZIE, Manager.
“Will the undertaking pav?” The economical
handling and transport of ores, fluxes, coal, coke,
merchandise, etc., in or about mines, factories or
warehouses!, very often solves the problem. W. and
J. Lempriere, of Melbourne, as agents for Bleichert
and 00., can give useful information on this subject.
The Bleichert firm has several aerial ropeways work-
irg in Australia, or in course of erection, and will
soon have at work, near Sydney, one of the largest
electric “Telpher” plants in existence. Special
electric and other cranes and mono-rail conveyors
can be procured from the same firm.*
Ferrodor Paint —specially manufactured for pre-
serving iron and steel. Unaffected by sea air, sul-
phur fumes and cyanogen gases. Used on the Princes
and Victoria bridges, and large quantities supplied
to the Mount Lyell. Broken Hill Proprietary, Walla-
roo and Colonial Sugar Companies for ironwork and
roofs. Ironwork of N.S.W. State Governor’s resi-
dence at Moss Vale painted with Ferrodor, and also
ordered by A. A. Dangar, Esq., of N.S.W., for roofs
of his Baroona homestead, Singleton, and all station
properties. Supplied in all colors in paste or ready
mixed, lcwt. covers 1100 square yards. Write for
particulars to sole agents, William Adams and Co.,
Ltd., of Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, and Perth.*
The undisputed benefit of asbestos covering for
steam-pipes and boilers has been exemplified by a re-
cent scientific treatise of the principles of steam
conveyance. Tests made have established the fact
that 100 square feet of pipe covered with this
material, at a pressure of 2001 b. per square inch, and
coal at 16s. per ton, will save £7 per year, and
prevent loss of pressure equal to 13.84 B. Th. U. per
square foot per minute. Bell’s Asbestos Non-con-
ducting Composition, supplied in cwt. bags, or
applied by experienced workmen at contract rates.
Bell’s Asbestos, Ltd., 315 Kent Street, Sydney.*
Professor Richards, in the revised edition of his
celebrated edition of “Ore Dressing,” 1909, devotes
14 pages to the Wilfiey concentrating table, and,
among other things remarks (p. 1465) : “The first
table sold was installed in the Puzzle Mill, at Breck-
enridge, Colorado. Since then over 12,000 have been
sold. This machine has revolutionised ore-dressing,
and as such is a phenomenal success. The original
form, and forerunner of all modern shaking tables
with longitudinal riffles . . has been greatly improv-
ed.” And further on (p. 1478) remarks: “One feature
of the Wilfiey table to which especial attention should
be called is its ability to separate sands from slimes
while making the ordinary concentration. This sep-
aration is more complete and thorough than can be
made by any classifier, and should be taken advant-
age of in designing mills.” In the extensive addi-
tions just made to the Golden Horseshoe Mine (W.A.)
a large number of Wilfiey Concentrators have been
installed. The Austral Otis Engineering Company,
Limited, South Melbourne, have the sole manufac-
turing rights.* [1
Extract from Assure, Manchester, September,
1910: “The Colonial Mutual —the first colonial office
to open an establishment in the Mother Country—
has always had a reputation for being an enterpris-
ing and progressive institution, and lately has at-
tracted special attention by enlarging the scope of
its operations, so as to include Industrial and Acci-
dent business.”*
WOOD PIPE shows to special advantage in mine
work. It is not affected by sulphur or other minerals
in soil or water, and does not chemically affect the
fluids it carries. Makers: The Australian Wood Pipe
Co., Ltd., Balmain, Sydney.*
Mine Managers, Engineers.—Do you want a first-
class Pneumatic Tool, Machine, or an Air Com-
pressor. Ask for the NILES. BOHLER BROS. AND
CO., LTD., 1 Angel Place, Pitt Street, Sydney, and
183 Queen Street, Melbourne, will provide you with
it. Also with Castings, solid and hollow Miners’
Drill Steel, Cast Steel for all purposes, Motor-car
Steels, Tools, etc.*
F. DANVERS POWER, mining engineer, is pre-
pared to purchase approved MINING properties. Ad-
dress: National Mutual Chambers, Pitt and Bond
Streets, Sydney.*
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting ?
If so, write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address, 163 King
Street, Sydney, and 9 Queen Street, Melbourne.* [1
For driving bands, conveyor and elevator belting
of all kinds, Hopkins Bros, and Odium Prop., Ltd.,
Leicester Street, Carlton, Melbourne. Leading
machine belting manufacturers. With largest stocks
and factory in the Commonwealth. Invite enquiries.
Leather belting (Australian and English) all sizes
stocked. Genuine British Balata and Taylors’
Patent Faced Camel Hair Belting, all widths up to
18in. Conveyor belting a specialty for ore, sand,
metal, coal. " Write for price-lists and discounts.
Agents wanted.*
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co. Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modern scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne.*
Mine managers when requiring air compressors,
either belt, steam, or electrically driven, should not
fail to inspect the Rea veil Air Compressor, when they
will be impressed by its simplicity, compactness and
portability. Owing to the working parts being en-
tirely enclosed it can be placed to work on any part
of the mine, either on the surface Or underground.
The number of repeat orders which Messrs. Reavell
have received from the mining community proves
how greatly their compressor is appreciated. .The
representatives for Australia are Messrs. Babcock
and Wilcox, Haymarket,. Sydney.* [2
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign Patents obtained.
Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Melbourne, and
Adelaide. Thirty years' practice. Write us for In-
ventors’ Guide.*
Ass Ayers, Mine Managers, and Prospectors
write to 11. B. Silbeuberg and Co., 443 Bourke
Street, Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining
requisites and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc
pulverisers to 200 mesh; hand sample grinders to
120 mesh; Ainsworth’s assay balances sensitive to
1/13000 grain; prospector’s balances to 1/1000
grain ; weight; pocket transits; gasoline combination
furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles ; chemicals; etc.*
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire .
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatins
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
They averaged last year a shade under 31 p.c. That
seems to be rather under what they might reason-
ably be expected to be, and suggests that very likely
the’ freehold property isn’t bringing in much of a
return, probably because the co. doesn’t make much
of a book-entry against itself for rent.
The County of Bourke Permanent Building
and Investment Society (Melbourne): —
Busi- Net
ness Profit on To Re- Re-
Sept., Profits. Sales. Dividends. serves, serves.
1900.. £6,010 £1561 6 p.c. = £5889 £1682 £12,087
1901.. 7,363 2869 6 „ „ SSBB 4344 16,431
1902.. 8,338 3913 7J „ „ 7361 4890 21,321
1903.. 8,844 2632 7J ~ „ 7361 4115 25,436
1904.. 10,763 1563 7* „ „ 7314 5002 30,438
1905.. 9,408 1 500 8| „ ~ 8533 2375 32,813
1906.. 10,291 1200 10 ~ ~ 9752 1739 34,552
1907.. 10,922 1300 10 „ „ 9752 2470 37,022
1908.. 10,870 1500 10 ~ ~ 9667 2703 39,725
1909.. 10,702 2000 10 „ ~ 9636 3066 42,791
1910.. 10,512 4000 10 „ „ 9636 4876 47,667
1911.. 11,768 3000 10 ~ ~ 9636 5132 52,799
As usual, in connection with Melbourne building
societies, things are not quite what they seem.
There is a long procession of “net profits on sales,”
but those profits have been made, not on the original
cost, but on a written-down value. After the trouble
in the early ’9o’s, and the usual long spell of dry-
nursing, it was decided in 1898 to write down all
remaining assets to bedrock, and square things by
writing off capital to correspond. On the revalua-
tion it was found that the £180,876 of assets (book
value) were then worth only £118,151, which meant
writing off £62,725 of capital or reserves. The
directors decided to do the thing properly, and by
wiping out two-fifths of the capital, not only pro-
vided for that deficit, but left £10,532 over to pro-
vide for any further contingencies. Instead of get-
ting worse, however, conditions began to improve,
and the} 7 have gone on improving; so that, instead
of the contingency reserve being drawn upon, the
funds have been largely added to by the sale of
assets at much beyond their written-down value.
Almost all the old properties have now been got rid
of; and while that is mostly a very good thing, in
this case it means that a fine source of profit has
been very nearly exhausted. As the money has been
got in from properties it has been loaned out on
new advances, partly, no doubt, to the purchasers
of the old properties. This shows how things have
changed:—
1900. 1909. 1910. 1911.
Capital .. .. £98,150 £96,361 £96,361 £96,361
Deposits .. .. 6,211 22,644 21,275 37,722
Other liabilities .. 1,897 2,724 4,347 6,973
Foreclosures .. 66,536 30,414 17,837 7,910
Advances .. .. 49,339 138,408 157,273 186,169
Other assets.. .. 5,907 1,720 563 4,595
Thus, while old foreclosed properties have been re-
duced from £66,536 to £7910, advances have
moved up from £49,339 to £186,169. The greater
part of this money for advances has been got from
sales, but a little has come from the public: de-
posits, etc., are now £44,695, as against £BlOB in
1900. From these figures it can be judged how very
far properties have jumped in value since the 1898
valuation. Since 1900 the net surpluses have
amounted to £27,038; and as the eo.’s practice is
not to take credit for any profit until the money has
been actually handled, there is still more to come
in. Roughly, so far as things have gone, it appears
that 50 p.c. more has been got for properties than
they were valued at. That, of course, is very grate-
ful and comforting; but when this co. is getting
these suddenly exalted prices, it means that other
people are paying them, and mortgage cos. are no
doubt lending on the basis of those exalted prices.
That means risk. You can’t often climb up a hill
without coming down again, and though it isn’t ab-
solutely necessary to break your neck in the process,
it is quite possible to do it, especially if the descent
is sudden. Which flower of speech is laid on the
table of every building society Board, and a sprig
of it is presented to each investor who thinks that
he ought to run up his overdraft a bit, and get a few
more shares in these prosperous things.
* * * *
J. H. Gillies having arranged for the issue
of debentures in England and elsewhere, the snare
capital of the big Tasmanian electric-power scheme
is now being pushed off in the Commonwealth. The
thing has huge possibilities—it is hard to say where
they will stop. The idea is to harness up the water
of the Great Lake, in the high inlands of Tasmania,
and make it do something for a living. On the
highest authority, which doesn’t seem capable of
being upset, 100,000-h.p. can be generated ; of this,
9000-h.p. can be got for £150,000, and another
9000-h.p. for a further £50,000. Once the power is
derived, there is no telling what may not be done with
it. Gillies, who is the father of the scheme, is a
metallurgist, and his thoughts naturally run to ore
treatment. He says he is going to make hundreds
of thousands out of the electric smelting of Broken
Hill zinc ores, and it is quite likely that he may.
But the investor, knowing that the bottom has
a bad habit of dropping out of metallurgical pro-
cesses, will probably glue his eye on to the contracts
made for the supply of light and power in Hobart
and elsewhere. Figures are, of course, estimates
only, but they are made by good men, and they show
a reasonable return on capital from this source alone.
The one unpleasant feature about the proposal is
its excessive capitalisation. An issue of £145,000
of debentures has been arranged ; but no less than
65,000 fully paid shares are to go as commission to
the underwriters or purchasers of those debentures,
and another 21,000 shares are to go to the under-
writers of the present issue of 70,000 cumulative
pref. shares. Altogether, the capital works out like
this :-r-
-£145,000 of 5 p.c., issued at 10 p.c. dis-
count.
£70,000 cum. pref. paid for by public.
£94,000 reserved, and optioned to the de-
benture underwriters or pur-
chasers.
£65,000, a free gift to the debenture under-
writers.
£21,000, a free gift to the underwriters of
the 70,000 shares.
£250,000 to the vendors of the rights, pa-
tents, etc.
Total £645,000
Of that £645,000, all that is actually to be put up
in cash now is £130,500 on debentures and £70,000
on shares; total, £200,500. Later on, presumably
the 94,000 reserved shares will be paid for in cash
—or they may be. For the present, however,
£200,500 has to earn interest for £551,000. It is
a dreadful amount of water to load any young con-
cern with. Certainly, the debentures have a first
bite, and the pref. shares have a second bite (5 p.c.
each) ; but after that they get nothing until the
vast swag of ordinary shares get 5 p.c. If it was
necessary for Private’Enterprise to pay such a huge
price to raise £145,0.00 on debentures, it is pretty
evident that Private Enterprise isn’t the right party
for a job of this kind.
* * * *
Probably those Australians who were
diddled out of the shares they thought they had
bought in the Marconi Wireless Telegraph Co. of
Canada, didn’t lose very much, after all. Something
which alleges that it is an “annual report, with
statement of account for the year ending January
31, 1910,” has just reached some of the few people
who did get a few shares. The report is hifalutin,
but the balance-sheet shows that up to January 31,
1910, the co. had piled up a deficit of 5389,444 (in-
cluding “organisation exes.”). It owed at that date
no less than 5719,819 ( £149,750) to the English
co., and was so hard un that it proposed to “create
and issue 52,500,000 30-year first mortgage 6 p.c.
gold bonds” ; and if some of them are going to be
used to pay off the English co., then the share-
holders’ prospects of a dividend don’t look cheerful,
to say the least of it.
* * » *
A proposal comes from Adelaide that
Broken Hill South shares should be cut up into
threes, making 600,000, instead of the present
200,000. The circular —a broker’s, of course—ad-
mits that the proposal wouldn’t add a cent to the
dividend value of the mine; so the one thing in its
alleged favor is that it would make the shares han-
dier to gamble in, and might thus jump up the
“capital value” of the mine a trifle. If the directors
listen to that plea they will deserve to be kicked
out. They would only be making a whip for their
own backs, anyway; for, obviously, the higher the
price the shares are forced to, the bigger the struggle
it will some day be for the management to pay in-
terest on the investment. The yarn is that shares
are over £6 now, and, “as there is a strong disin-
clination on the part of investors to purchase shares
in less than a hundred,” the little man doesn t get a
chance. “This is well known,” says the circular.
It is—well known to be arrant rubbish. How many
hundreds of Bank of Australasia shares, for instance,
are dealt in? One lot in a year? Certainly not
more.
* * * *
Broken Hill Junction had no revenue last
half-year, and mine expenditure, depreciation
( £2991), general exes., etc., brought up the P. and
L. debit from £31,711 to £38,042. The directors
have an idea that a Minerals Separation plant,
similar to the one at the Sulphide Corporation s
mine, would give a profit, so 50,000 10s. pref. shares
have been issued to provide funds. The old share-
holders (there were 200,000 ordinary shares) had the
right to take the new issue, but they called for only
28,423 shares. There is no certainty at all about
the future.
. * * *
Last year N.S.W. produced
40,326 tons of pig iron, upon which a bounty of
£24,196 was paid. According to the Hoskins farm
the cost was £3 3s. 5d., and the selling price £3
4s. 3d., showing a profit of lOd. per ton. Bounty
was also paid on 3385 tons of puddled bar iron
( £2036), and 3410 tons of steel ( £2046). The sad
part of the business is that these latter goods were
produced on so small a scale. _ It is upon coal, ot
which we have such fine supplies, that the world s
big enterprises in iron and steel primarily depend;
hence, even if Australia hadn’t a scrap of ore instead
of possessing mountains of it, the iron industry
should become a big thing, for the consumption of
coal and coke in finished products like rails, wire,
or sheet iron, is enormously greater than in the
production of pig iron.
* - w .- * *
Principal Westralian results for Septem-
ber:—
Value
Tonnage. Revenue. Profit, per ton.
Great Boulder .. 17,473 £48,024 £25,543 55/-
Ivanhoe . . . . 20,124 40,529 18,029 40/3
Kalgurli .. 10,760 21,629 9,029 40/2
Lake View and Star 15,531 18,802 2,473 24/2
Golden Horseshoe 21,812 37,349 6,668 34/3
Boulder Perseverance 21,146 28,636 7,024 27/1
South Kalgurli .. 9,404 12,018 2,276 25/7
Great Fingall .. 7,590 13,892 987 36/7
Sons of Gwalia .. 13,725 26,703 9,807 38/10
Oroya Links . . 9,020 11,297 1,784 25/-
Golden Ridge .. 2,758 6,542 2,800 47/5
Oroya-Black Range 4,600 9,223 3,085 40/1
Menzies Consolidated 2,412 3,995 1,144 33/2
Mararoa .. 2,590 6,375 49/3
Gwalia South .. 2,399 3,199 1,002 26/8
Black Range .. 2,280 6,821 1,928 60/-
Ingliston Extended 830 2,894 1,078 69/9
Lake View Consols 6,145* 1,768 598 5/9
Sand Queen .. 1,081 2,765 505 4X/2
Ilainault .. 5,506 6,820 251 24/9
Associated Northern 2,386 f 5,915 49/7
Northern Mines 7,081 7,849 24 22/2
Ida H 975 4,400 90/5
Loss
Associated . . 9,626 12,207 857 25/4
Chaffers - - 2,450 2,967 5281 24/3
Morning Star .. 1,006 1,929 183 38/4
* Old residues.
t Mostly tributors’ ore. .
t An additional £1348 was mopped up in special
development. * * *
Kalgurli’s report for the year ended July
31, causes another pitying glance to be directed at
Kalgoorlie. The features of the latter half of the
period under review, says manager Black, were a
heavy fall in the grade of stopes, which had been
previously fairly consistent in value, and a market!
absence of those rich telluride deposits which in
days gone by have sweetened the outputs. This,
coupled with the fact that Black believes in erring
on the side of caution, causes him to say (1) that
the grade, which, in a little more than 12 months,
has dropped from over 50s. to about 40s. per ton, must
be governed by a regular system of ore extraction,
and (2) that a further reduction m returns will pro-
bably follow the working of the mine on these safe
lines. Seeing i>at continuity of values is almost un-
known in the KAgurli, and that all other mines
in its row—the South Kalgurli, Associated, Boulder,
Perseverance and Lake View—-have long smce fa [ le
into reduced circumstances, the wonder is that this
property has kept up its high values so well.
* * * *
Golden Pole (W.A.) still manages to
keep on the list of producers, though it is very lame
and halt. Last half-year’s revmue—made up en-
tirely of tribute royalty—amounted to £623, and a
credit of £267 was shown by the working account.
The absorption of £712 by depreciation, however,
converted this surplus into a book loss of £445.
The tributors are stated to be working the mine in
a pleasing manner; but nothing has been disco ve
of Sufficient importance to warrant the co. resuming
operations. Seeing that the tributors are only
searching for the remnants of what fomierly kept
the co. in affluence, it is not to be wondered at that
no fresh discoveries have been made. In any it
seems hopeless to try. From the commencement of
tributing to the end of last July, £ 5268 . has been
recovered, and out of this sum the co. r ®, cei y ,
in royalty. It now has £1406 in hand, besides a
few hundred pounds’ worth of stores. Then there l
a plant which cost a lot, but probably wouldn t
fetch much at auction. #
Ida H. (W.A.) has resumed ore treat-
ment with £17,500 in hand, and a hint to share-
holders that record profits are going to ,t> e earned.
As previously emphasised on this page, the co. m y
manage to keep its word for a time,, but not tor
long. Meanwhile every possible effort will no doubt
be made to get the public interested. And what
happens afterwards will be the public s funeral.
* * * *
News comes from Westralia that a Ger-
man syndicate has had a look at Grant’s Not -West
copper mine, alias Oobagooma. Under the latter
name the show was floated in Melbourne some time
ago, but after a little work had been done, it was
handed back to its original owner. Hopes are now
entertained that someone else may buy it.
* * * *
Thus Chairman William Orr at the
Hampden South Consols (Cloncurry) meeting in
Melbourne: —
“At no distant date a central concentrating plant
would have to be erected. A magnificent site ex-
isted, where the railway crossed the Malbon River.
The spot he had in view was 15 miles from the
Hampden mine, and at the junction of the line to
the Duchess. A central works there would serve the
Hampden, Mount Elliott, Wee Macgregor, Duchess,
the Lady Fanny group, and the mines held by the
Leichhardt Syndicate, as well as many other pro-
perties. Shareholders of the two powerful companies,
the Hampden and Mount Elliott, should take into
consideration whether it would not be advisable to
amalgamate their interests, and take in such mines
as the Hampden South Consols, Macgregor, Lady
Fanny, and others. The union of these mines would
be of great benefit to the field, as some would be
the complement of the others, metallurgically. He
hoped the two big companies would take the matter
into early consideration.”
William Orr knows, of course, what amalgamation
has done for Lyell and North Lyell. He didn’t dis-
cover the Lyells, certainly, _but he led to the
“Queen-street crowd” discovering them; it was he
who induced Bowes Kelly and the others to ask
H. H. Schlapp to visit the new show, and he was
Schlapp’s guide on the journey that ended in the
“Queen-street crowd” backing its cart in for all the
interest it could get hold of.
* * * *
The little trouble between the union and
the Mount Elliott co. at the Limestone mine, has
been settled at last, and a contract has been let to
drive 100 ft. on the course of the lode at the 100 ft.
level. General-manager Corbould, of Elliott, has
been to Mount Oxide. He. and Nicholson did the 160
miles out in two and a-half days, and no night
travelling. It was a record trip—they drove three
horses abreast, and took six others for changes. ( n
their way back they had a leisurely look at the
country. Corbould has now seen most of the Clon-
curry district. His impression is that it is a great
mineral belt, some 280 miles tong by about 50 miles
wide —scattered, yet with capital and railways cer-
tain to make into far and away the largest copper-
producing field in Australia.
* * * *
Though nothing apparently was written
off against depreciation, Stannary Hills (Q.) went
£2738 further to the bad during the past half-year,
so things would have looked very sick if the expen-
sive debenture issue had not been converted into
shares. It is the old trouble ; where the ore is
rich, as in the Ivanhoe, it is most erratic, and
where it is in large bodies, it is usually very poor
In despair, evidently, of finding another sweet body
like the Ivanhoe produced in the old co. s brightest
days, the directors have bought the neighboring
Dead Finish for £3OOO. Long ago this was re-
ferred to here as the mine with the best indications
of permanency in the district; but there is not much
chance of a big production, though what there is of
it will be rich. As the co., on July 31, had only a
few hundred pounds of liquid assets in excess of
liabilities, the purchase money must be got by
calls.
* * * *
East Mexican, Charters Towers, for a
run of four weeks, crushed 1320 tons for £6348. A
sixpenny is payable on November 13, bringing the
Mexican’s total up to 4s. Some payable stone has
been risen on from No. 5 level, so the prospect ol
No. 4 running into a good make to the east has
improved. At the eastern end of No. 6 the reef has
carried heavy mineral stone right to the Freehold s
boundary, and driving on this extreme eastern make
is being continued. Prospecting is going on near
the western boundary for the hanging-wall reef
worked to so much advantage by Mills United.
Such a strong shoot of stone ought to have an
upper crust in the formation that slopes upwards
into the Mexican.
» * * *
Kelly’s Queen Block, Charters Towers,
crushed 583 tons for £3sl2—over £6 per ton of
stone from the cross reef worked over the 1450 ft.
level. For once in a way the share market got the
true strength of things.
* * * *
New Brilliant Freehold, Charters Towers,
paid a shilling div. a few days since. This makes
£37,500 this year, and £90,000 since work started
on the Day Dawn. The taking out of 15,238 tons
this year has made a hole in reserves, so that sink-
ing of the underlay below No. 4 level is being
anxiously watched. Below No. 3 patches of mineral
stone have been met with, but only in small quanti-
ties. There is some doubt whether the Brilliant
reef extends far to the west, for Mills’ United failed
to pick it up with the bore near the Freehold’s
boundary. The Brilliant Deeps’ No. 4 west at
2540 ft. vertical has made the Towers more hopeful,
but in looking westward for the Brilliant, or east-
ward for the Day Dawn, the theorist has to consider
blanks, and can form no idea of their size.
• * * *
Ajax Central, Daylesford (Vic.), adjoins
the Ajax; and the market, having spotted it as a
good prospect, was as eager for a gamble as the
punter for the Caulfield Cup flutter. A formation
2ft. thick, cut in the shaft at 380 ft., has led to as
much talk as was heard over the Nuggetty. The find
is important, for it proves that the flat Daylesford
makes are not confined to one or two favored claims;
hence a' big mining district may be developed in
what most people took to be a has-been field. Luck
in the Central means a heap to the Ajax, as only a
little driving has to be done to get into that claim
from the Central shaft. To help the Ajax would be
returning a compliment, as that claim has followed
one flat formation up to the Central mine.
Chiltern Valley, Rutherglen, with its mil-
lion output of gold, issues a deplorable report. John
Cock always wanted J. A. Wallace and his successors
on the Board to build up a solid reserve out of that
million, but “bread should be eaten hot from the
oven,” was J.A.’s maxim. Now, when the Lock Out
lead won’t junction with the Chiltern gutter, when
wash is as poor as a broker’s clerk, and when ground
is as heavy as a Western squatter’s balance, the
Board looks like chucking up the sponge. John
Cock, despite his years and his illness, wants the
Wallace shaft worked, provided labor isn’t too dear.
But his Board seems as shy about tackling 16,000 ft.
of ground as it is over taking fees in distressful
times. If these directors are not prepared to face
the job, why don’t they draw out? More than this
Chiltern Valley claim depends on the continuance
of work, for the pumping it does helps other claims
on the gutter. Rutherglen looks on dazed at the
feebleness of the Board, and a dazed took never
shifted an obstacle.
* * * *
Pyrenees Proprietary, Redbanks (Vic.),
has been flirting with Fortune for half a decade, and
has not hooked the coy young thing yet. The latest
move is to poke the shaft down to below 400 ft., to see
how things took there, and to try to make a mine
of the claim. Half-ounce stone has been the crush-
ing record of late. That ought to pay, but the co.
wants cash and a better following. The small credit
balance isn’t sufficient, for it means merely the pay-
ment of wages and low directors’ fees and salaries.
A good sign is that a new shoot of stone has been
unearthed south in the intermediate level above
250 ft. A few decent yields here and a little
patience should give the co. enough funds to hustle
its shaft down another 100 ft., to pick up the
shoots there. Unless that is done, the mine must
remain small potatoes.
London Financial Times has lately been
having a dig at the missing essentials in mining re-
ports. Instances are quoted of shareholders having
been kept in ignorance of matters seriously affecting
their interests, and of news being given out in such
a form as to convey very little meaning. More in-
formation is asked for regarding outputs, and a few
bricks are flung at annual and progress reports, which
lack essential data. Reports which contain a whole
tot about some things, and next to nothing about
others, also get a kick or two. Accounts, however,
have been entirely overlooked; yet they need shaking
up as much as mine reports. As J. H. Curie showed
some years ago, accounts can be and are frequently
doctored, so as to make it impossible to arrive at
the financial position of a co. A statement treated
in this way will show a month’s profit of such and
such an amount. But from this will have been kept
out the cost of development, etc. These items may
aggregate two-thirds of the reported surplus. The
directors argue that to keep one month’s costs
similar to another month’s, these items must be
placed to capital or some other account. Some day,
though, the mine is worked out, and then the ac-
counts show that a worthless hole in the ground,
known as the main shaft, stands in the books as
worth £150,000 —the amount by which profits have
been inflated.
* * * *
G.V.W.: (1) Very fair gamble. (2) Can’t
recommend A.G.: C.S.R. reviewed B. 4/5/’ll ;
Walker’s, B. 24/8/’ll.


✓
HEERING’S
COPENHAGEN
CHERRY
BRANDY.
Est. 1818.
World
Trade Mark.
Renowned
STUHR’S
Finest Table Delicacies
Genuine Caviare.
Anchovies in Brine.
Peeled Shrimps.
Shrimps Extract.
Sold by all High-class Provision Dealers.
C. F. STUHR & CO., Hamburg.
English Export Agent: W.-bovegrove.lontton.E.C.
It’s a pretty hard struggle to
make a living keeping boarders,
but l manage to keep my head
above water by being careful and
not throwing money away. Now,
l find that boarders take more
notice of the tea than they do
anything else, and 1 take good
care that mine have no cause of
complaint. I always give them
the No. 2 Grade Robur —it’s
wonder!ully saving tea to use,
and so it suits my pocket, and to
my mind it’s as nice a flavored
tea as anybody need wish for,
and I’ve tried hundreds. Another
good point about Robur is it
doesn’t vary from one year’s end
to another, and so you always
know exactly what you’re getting
for your money.
Most teas are different every
time you buy them, but Robur
is the exception— and, although
it’s saying a good deal, it isn’t
a bit more than the plain truth
when l say Robur tea’s a god-
send to boarding-house keepers.
The Boarding-House Keeper.
QUALITY— BUCHANAN WHISKY
“BLACK & WHITE.
A WOMAN'
LETTER
Sydney, October 30, 1911.
My Dear Arini. —
This office turned loose on the face of the
waters, per R.M.S. Orsova, one Alf Vincent,
whose black-and-white work in The Bulle-
tin has added to the gaiety of this contin-
ent for about 14 years. Artist Vincent is
habitually well groomed, has a large, up-
standing presence, is still open to engage-
ment, and is liable to come under the eligi-
ble bachelor tax in France. This tax is in
tne air, and may bump the earth in the
vicinity of the Riviera when Vincent is
breaking the bank at Monte Carlo. lie
leaves this patch for a six-months’ holiday.
N.B.—The accused is suspected of conceal-
ing inky finger-prints about his immaculate
person; he has brown eyes and straight fea-
tures, is addicted to snuff-colored garments
and golf. If found on the French coast at
the end of six months, either fishing, or mak-
ing love to an eligible mademoiselle, or
sketching the fortifications in contravention
of Clause XXX of the French Coastal Bom-
bardment Act, he may be packed up and for-
, warded to this office. Carriage paid on de-
livery.
Canterbury Times (M.L.) has torn it-
self in twain with a loud concussion, and
parted with its star artist, Low, who takes
Alf Vincent’s place at the Melbourne end of
Ihe Bulletin. Canterbury Times, by the
way, though it threatens to go into half-
mourning over its loss, has shown a gener-
ous desire to speed the departing Low to “a
wider sphere of work.”
Alfred aforementioned has promised to
send you in this letter, thumb-nail sketches
and remarks re such of his doings as can be
published without arousing the suspicion of
the bloated tyrants of Continental Europe.
A man who had “pump” as the last half
ot his name, recently shook his fist, through
the press, at the Water and Sewerage Board,
re the partial absence of water at the Crow’s
Nest blaze. Collectors of the long forearm
of coincidence might also add to their scrap-
books or strong-room deposit for odd happen-
ings, the fact that Miss Twelvetrees was the
first bush nurse in this State.
I hear that Auckland (M.L.) Herald
has just been led aside into a dark se-
cluded spot by one Beriah Evans, and
Beriah has whispered behind his hand into
its ear. His news is that the Prince of
Wales is that David spoken of aforetime by
Ezekiel —the same man who recorded the
first four flying capitalists “in the form of a
man, and every one had four faces, and
every one had four wings.” It seems that
Blanche, Countess of Waterford, and a
great friend of Queen Mary when she was
May, Duchess of York, had a kind of reve-
lation or presentiment or nightmare that in
the prince’s day the Lost Tribes (which are
mostly located in England) would re-possess
the Holy Land. So Blanche persuaded May
to call the boy David, among other things,
and there is talk of putting Solomon’s old
palace in repair to be ready for eventualities.
An unreliable rumor says that a Point
Piper, or Pipe Pointer (these tales do get so
tangled) gathered together a large galaxy of
Society frills to meet the Melba opera co.,
the other Sunday—the Sunday before the
last one. But the opera co. either wouldn’t
be met, or forgot it had been asked ; so it
carelessly stayed away, and the extra cakes,
chairs, etc., borrowed for the occasion, were
uneaten and unsung, and returned at sunset
to their original address. Melba, one of the
delinquents, and Burke, another sinner, are
said to have been inhaling ozone at Manly,
instead of breathing in muffins at the Piper
tea-party.
The male bird’s plumage is looking up.
Not only is he glorious in his socks, but lie
threatens to become striped in his collars,
Cold Land’s Minister for War Lord Hal-
dane is reported to have been recently seen
—and promptly photographed—in garments
of the ordinary tailor-rig lifted out of the
common rut by a collar decorated with large
red stripes. When a War Lord takes to
slabs of red on his linen, the Peace Society
may begin to believe that guns are popping
in Tripoli, and that there are more than tea-
parties on the hills of China.
Roller skating had a night out, last week,
in aid of the Sydney Hospital centenary
fund. The ancient Exhibition Building, iii
Prince Alfred Park—once dedicated to hen-
coops, dog shows and similar cattle raids —
was the place. Dr. McDonagh helped to
push the fancy-dress parade along. Mayoress
Allen Taylor lent her aid at the food stall,
and a large consignment of doctors, nurses,
and other healing balms were carefully
rubbed into the entertainment. The Red In-
dian team scooped up considerable applause,
being headed by a long, lean warrior who
looked as if he’d escaped from one of Feni-
more Cooper’s cloth covers. The Challenger
boys shouldered a Dreadnought, without
damaging Grace Darling, who paddled the
air in her roller-tyred craft just ahead.
“Temptation” was represented by four tame-
looking maidens, who were incapable of in-
citing even a puppy to riotous behavior.
Women, wine, cards and horses were flung
at the mhle herd by. this team. It was
driven by a Mephistopheles in petticoats, who
dropped her mask to show a face that be-
longed to the best girl in a Sunday-school
class.
The W.C.T.U. convention has been stamp-
ing after the juvenile smoker in this city,
and following the long beer to its alleged
long but premature home in the cemetery,
where, it is said, the beer’s misguided enve-
lope of flesh goes before his time. Mrs.
Nolan of the W.C.T.U., has even removed
her eye, for 15 fifteen minutes or so, from
the prohibition cure, to turn an X-ray glance
on the half-grown cigarette. Prohibition in
Maoriland, however, according to an escaped
Australian, wants more watching than any
publichouse bar. “The drunks in Invercar-
gill,” says Mummer, “are more drunk than
any other drunks I’ve met, except those of
Gore (M.L.), which is another prohibition
paten the actor strikes, with furious lan-
guage, when he’s on the road over there.”
Mrs. McMillan, the calico politician's
lady, declared the Kindergarten Game Festi-
val to be well and truly open at liushcutter’s
Bay Oval, the other afternoon. General sec.
Ellen Desailly helped Miss Elizabeth Jen-
kins (who drives the Kindergarten training-
coach at Roslyn Gardens) to round up visi-
tors into the compound that fenced in the
spectators, while the spectacle—-very young
—frisked round in mimic march or kicked
up its heels in circle games.
Froebel’s notion of treating work as a pill
to be swallowed in jam—all work being up
against a normal, healthy little animal’s de-
sire to get out into the sunshine, and rend
its garments in the sheer joy of life—makes
the Kindergarten method acceptable on this
happy shore. The art of shoving the three
IPs down the throat r.: infancy in the guise of
games is good enough to be encouraged. But
the fantastic trimming of folk dances —the
Morris dance, for instance —ought to be torn
off the gate of the child-garden. That sort of
thing is an attempt to graft hoary traditions
on to fresh young stock, and the students
who contributed the hop of the Middle Ages
to the Kindergarten day out at Rushcutter’s
Bay, didn’t carry much conviction. A Morris
dance really belongs to a side-show in an
English village with twopence extra to see
the Fat Lady. Australia is several centuries
too young to cultivate peasant games.
The “Ladies’ Kennel Club” yelped itself
hoarse in the Town Hall cellarette or under-
ground bureau, last week. The floor was
heavily sprinkled with somebody’s disinfec-
tant powder, and the exhibits had ample
time to lift up their voices—the smaller the
dog the larger was his voice and the higher
did he lift it. The Yorkshire silky terrier, a
queer little beast, defies the Universe behind
a mane of hair which is either plaited into a
small pigtail off his forehead, or falls into
his eyes. Mrs. Watson, Mrs. Coombe and
Mrs. Longhurst were well represented in
this section. Two Yorkshire toy terriers,
with their pigtails halfmast like Chinese
courtiers, made as much noise as a small in-
surrection.
The pugs at the Kennel Club show were
sustained and comforted by the presence of a
large circle of admiring friends. Mrs. Meeks’
Bobs and Mrs. Tovey’s Patricia appealed to
pug lovers. These petted beasts are the most
useless of their kind, and a pug capable of
earning his own bones is as rare as a duke
who cleans his own boots. Yet most women
have a weakness for pugs and dukes. The
Queen o’ Scots (Miss O. Osborne’s good-
looking lady beagle), Lord Velos (a deex*-
hound) and Lord Macquarie (the property
of J. Dickson) were amongst those present
in the disinfected sawdust on Saturday after-
noon.
The Philharmonic Society’s concert filled
the Town Hall to its last air-hole, the other
night. “The Flying Dutchman” continued
to fly—with 10 minutes interval for refresh-
ments —till a late hour. Steersman Harry
Neil kept his voice at the helm in storm and
calm. Mariner Andrew Black (the Dutch-
man) rolled out a large volume of sombre
song. Senta (Mrs. Slapoffski) warbled her
devotion to the Dutchman to the brink of a
watery grave. Mrs. Slap, floated away from
the rest of the crew in the ballad, “A Ship
Upon the Restless Ocean Sails.” Dame
Mary (Alice Braund) had an occasional
wobble in her voice, probably due to the rest-
less ocean getting underneath it. Percy Her-
ford’s extensive notes were scattered with
satisfactory results over the song carved out
by Wagner for Senta’s weird parent, Dal-
and. The-overture, as played by the Phil-
harmonic orchestra, and the “Spinning-
Chorus,” with the Philharmonic ladies in
charge, were fine efforts that lapped the
edge of the society’s best achievement in this
city. The Flying Dutchman went down with
all hands about 10.30 p.m., and conductor
Joseph Bradley waded home in a tram.
The Melba opera co. storm centre having-
moved to Melbourne, this town has resumed
its normal condition. While the din of battle
lasted, floods of tears must have soaked the
stage entrance to Her Majesty’s, and they
were known to trickle over the stalls at
more than one performance. The jealousies
that rage between the most obscure singers
grow into dangerous explosives when they’re
bottled up in grand opera. Two of the
younger lady-birds in the J.C.W. aviary flew
south with a teardrop in each eye, in conse-
quence of having been rather pecked at by
other warblers.
Sydney Zoo last week acquired a python
eight yards long. I have felt kindly dis-
posed towards the python family ever
since one of them lived next door to this
office. It was an ideal neighbor in a street
which is noisier than any thoroughfare has a
right to be. It never got drunk, howled,
cursed, thrashed horses in the lane, threw
packing cases about, or rang an auction
bell; also, so far as I am aware, it was
never guilty of playing a cornet, blowing its
own trumpet, or turning a barrel organ. It
just strewed itself round its cage and gave a
clever imitation of a discarded canvas fire
hose which had been decorated by a lunatic
artist. It is alleged that it stirred a yard or
two of itself one day and hissed an actor ;
but he was an inferior actor, and deserved
hissing, anyway. All the other beasts and
reptiles that ever lived in Lower George-
street are unregretted. But I still think
kindly of the serial serpent, and I hope that
his relative at the Zoo has a comfortable
hat-rack to drape himself on.
One thing worried the inquiry department
of the average woman’s cranium when she
drank in the dresses and other material joys
of the opera season. Did Delilah have her
frocks made by a French dressmaker (the
Delilah of de Gisneros being right up to date
in embroidered tunics and jewelled trim-
mings) and are we slipping back to the
gowns worn when a Montague and Capulet
banged each other on sight? The Juliet
gown of grey glitter, worn by Melba in the
first scene, was made like the gowns of half
the smart women in the stalls —very narrow
with a slashing of silk garniture at one side.
The Juliet sleeve, with the fluff of cliinon
near the elbow, gets back to the 1760 period.
But the Juliet knees evidently bumped to-
gether, owing to the restricted area of skirt,
just as the 1911 knees knock each other in
the correctly incorrect tube mouldings of the
fashionable frock.
Seven millionaires and others have been
waited on in this town in the matter of
blind organist Gordon Lavers. The million-
aires are said to have rather curled up at
being suspected of owning spare cash, but
they’ve promised to chance ruin and contri-
bute about £l5O towards the urgently
wanted £3OO. In the Thames village (at
Norwood), there’s a college where the speci-
ally gifted .blind are filled with useful infor-
mation, and afterwards pushed into places
of prominence. Organist Gordon Lavers, of
Hunter’s Hill, has discovered music in his
realm of eternal night, and a local commit-
tee is now stirring itself to send him to Nor-
wood for three years’ instruction. That
sprightly evergreen, Matthew Henry Ste-
phen, also C. R. Walsh, Arthur Mason and
other searchers for stray coin for the Lavers
fund, are now on the track of more citizens
for the £l5O that’s still in the atmosphere.
The latest English importations are full
of the latest development of the picture-
show business in England. At these “cine-
mas,” afternoon tea is provided free of
charge. It seems to be as great a success
as the counter-lunch was originally. “Some-
thing for nothing” is the eternal battle cry
of the multitude.
Esta d’Argo and her concert co., on the
wing for Brisbane, rested the soles of their
feet in this city on Sunday, after a train
jolt of 27 hours. This included four changes
of locomotive, for the dhvrgo-Davies team
started from the hamlet of St. Arnaud
(Vic.), which contains about 2000 leather
soles, and a musical postmaster. When Post-
master Mountjoy hears a good concert co.
warbling 100 miles or so away, he gets into
the line of communication, wrestles with or
implores its management to come to St.
Arnaud —the centre of a big pastoral stretch
of grass—and undertakes to sell tickets as
a guarantee of good faith. Financial results
are always good, though the, stamp man
doesn’t get a copper for his trouble. St.
Arnaud missed the last Melba concert tour
by a fluke.
After the siege of Paling’s for opera tic-
kets, H. N. Southwell retired to an appar-
ently peaceful breaker on Bondi beach. Up
went a hand out of the adjacent billow.
“Hi, there —you’re (biff from billow) the
man I’m looking for. I say —you didn’t get
those opera tickets for me —had none left?
(biff) never mind—hi, there ! I want you
to do me another favor.]’ Both swallow
some sea and sand, then rise to the surface.
Southwell dives, but is seen alive in the
offing. “I say,” yells the pursuer, “I’ve got
over a thousand autographs of singers and
(biff) other celebrities—but I haven’t John
McCormack’s —will you—” biff from i
breaker in a big way of business. Both
bodies were washed ashore, alive.
“Robbed” sends an urgent wire :
On the day before the Hospital Saturday raid,
Sydney Telegraph contained a brief paragraph to-
the effect that the most successful collector at the
Southend (Eng.) lifeboat and hospital carnival was
a small female donkey. There are many advantages
about employing the four-legged variety of ass in the
work of street brigandage. It can't make sarcastic
speeches when refused donations, and it uses all its
limbs to walk with, consequently it is unable to
rattle its collection-box offensively in the face of the
public. Then, too, it may be shoved out of the road
without apology, and insults may be heaped upon it
without creating a disturbance. On next Hospital
Saturday I hope to see lots of female asses in the
streets.
The latest freak comes from Berlin, where
the Society ladies are now having their por-
traits painted in bed. Deserted studios are
given over to the rats, for the fashionable
portrait painter carries his tubes and
brushes to my lady’s bower, where the sitter
reclines against lace-trimmed pillows with
eyes closed. Presumably, it was a grand
duchess or serene highness with a squint who
started the shut-eye system. The craze has
proved a harvest to the artists. Anyhow, it
is a change from the wry-necked gazing-
at-nothing-in-particular pose which wearies
the eye at most exhibitions.
Massachusetts (U.S.)'has just built an
electric fan for George’s lady, which is said
to be the most costly affair of its kind a
tired old world has heard tell of, since the
days when the Queen of Sheba plunged in
peacock’s tails.
Before this reaches you, Frank, a son of
solicitor W. F. Brennan will have been mar-
ried, bar the interference of the King’s
enemies or other causes (on November 1), to
Florence, a daughter of the late.apd wealthy
E. J. Sparke, of Potts Point. The wedding-
party was chipped down to the offshoots of
both family trees. It carefully abstained
from the large, ostentatious dazzle that usu-
ally flings confetti over several hundred
guests when the bride’s parents are dwellers
in marble halls. Florence is a Nice Girl,
with a large flicker of humor in her mental
poise. The honeymoon will be in Melbourne
with Menzies hostel as the ’mooners’ head-
quarters.
Two ancient law tomes were recently re-
presented by junior branches at an orange-
blossom party in the village of Paterson
(N.S.W.). On that occasion, Edward,
youngest son of the late Justice Windeyer,
and grandson of another eminent lawyer,
was wedded to Louisa Florence, youngest
daughter of Mrs. Holden, of Sunnyside,
Paterson, and grand-daughter of the late
lawyer G. M. Holden, who was at one time
Examiner of Titles and other legal knots.
Sydney has suddenly subsided into a pro-
found social calm. There isn’t a ripple on
its surface. The Melbourne migration has
drained Society, and its dress trunks, and
its assisted complexions, to the lees. The
same people go to the same old—well, not
exactly the same old—Cup each year, stay
at the same taverns, tell the same plain "and
fancy lies about their dear friends’ affairs,
and dream the same old unreliable dreams
about the double that never comes off.
May your fancy romp home first at the
Byron Moore horse-play.
VANDORIAN.
At the recent Westralian elections there
were 441 electors for Gascoyne, and, despite
the big distances, 429 of them got to the poll.
Only two ladies failed to turn up, and one
of them was so ill that it was impossible for
her to get out. So there, at all events, the
defeated candidate can’t say that “apathy”
knocked him out.
The Herald, of Sydney, last Saturday
mournfully warned the capitalist of the dan-
ger of indiscriminately investing his good
money without calculating the chances. She
instructed him to provide against the fol-
lowing seven devils, any one of which, she
fears, is likely to be let loose:
/l) War with Germany, (2) plague, (3) coal
strike, (4) maritime strike, (6) drought, (6) finan-
cial panic abroad, (7) Labor victory next elections.
War, pestilence, famine and Labor! Things
seem to be getting worse.


fcjjjPS
is
■vu
V; i>, §j| |j
ifa* i
hbu!
illS#fiffSff!f!
/ •
m
Jv *£?
X
•t\\ tHnMa
m
C
/«
//js
os>
M
\s» \
mi
.--" Y
llv
SjM
D
«
nv
V
1 - _ii
Ii
fMll
fell
@w
<SS-5f
-'>~
&SMSW ? v ■
--^
Kff
W^'is.
•• • •'
y'lK'
--
swi?p
K'xfe'
v%
>'r*'.
;-• :■ -•■
«
ii
'
v^;o
W&
; -' ;> -7 Cy’i ~ '-• “£,y : '' A-o£v
PP#pl#
pKWCwrS
-
cT6 «"
V
QBU
?MWm
egs
H
Swri
@ll
span.
m
m
••vrv>
ISK
SSM
m
Saass
■ : . ;-;'.-':v':' '•' -
»
COBRA, Sfte Floor
good as COBRA, 15he
‘■fik
% \
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
With his magic
Makes for you
And the baby,
Bright and clever,
Rivers where you
Row for ever,
Floipng on a
Woolly mat
With the foxie
And the cat ,
All aboard 1
Away we float
"Down the river
In our boat I


hjk
FANCY TUNIC SHIRTS.
Soft 8 Cool for Summer Wear.
Best English make, splendidly cut, ac-
curate in sizes, perfect fitting, faultless
materials, with soft fronts, stiff cuffs and
neckbands, in Striped Oxfords, Zephyrs and
Cambrics.
PRICES 4/6, 5/6, 6/6, 7/6, 8/6 each.
“DUVAL” SHIRTS, the new London
Fashion, made of oatmeal cloth, in tricolor
stripes, with soft double collar to match.
PRICE 7/6.
Send for Men's Wear Catalogue.
FARMER’S,
Pitt, Market
and George
Streets,
SYDNEY.
DUNLOP
GARDEN HOSE
Lasts for Years and
does not kink or burst
OBTAINABLE ALL STOREKEEPERS.
ACCEPT ONLY “DUNLOP” BRANDS.
THE DUNLOP RUBBER CO.. All States and N.Z.
'mji*
W::M
DUNLOP
Tennis
Balls
FOR.
QUALITY & PRICE,
They Play better
and wear longer
than any other Ball.
TRY THEM !
v ALL SPORTS DEPOTS
DUNLOP RUBBER CO
DUNLOP
RUBBER HEELS
Outwear all Others.
Unequalled for COMFORT
QUALITY and PRICE
VARIOUS SHAPES.
ALL BOOT SHOPS.
• m m
ACCEPT ONLY
'DUNLOP" BRANDS.
r • mm
DUNLOP RUBBER CO„ All State. & N.Z.
0
1
€>
DUNLOP
TYRES
OUTWEAR
ALL OTHERS
Unequalled for
QUALITY
and PRICE.
* *
beware of
IMITATIONS.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO , All States & N l
1^
\\\
DUNLOPKELLY
50LID RUBBER-
W 3
LV\
/ W 'll
<. j
VEHICLE
fcTYRES
absorb all
noise and
vibration,
double the
life of your
vehicle, and
last for
years. Fit-
ted from
jES and
upwards.
P-ice List Pntet
DUNLOP
RUBBER CO.
All States A AX
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, October 30, 1911.
My Dear Yarrie, —
The streets of Melbourne were deserted
on Saturday afternoon, the whole populace
being crazily concentrated on the Yarra’s
banks. The hot crowds pushed and kicked
themselves across the bridge early in the
afternoon, and poured down to the edges of
the slow-moving stream, leaving the city to
empty tramcars, dust clouds and stray dogs.
The centre of the river w T as buoyed off; but
on either side, decorated launches and boats
like floating birthday cakes crawled and
puffed, while the buzz of a vast crowd went
up to the blue. The committee, this year,
sent the house-boats further up stream, in
order to give the shore crowd an uninter-
rupted view. Some of the house-boats
dropped out. The Gaud Mayor’s float-
ing residence was amongst the missing
fleet; so was the Athenaeum Club’s ark,
which was condemned. The G.-G.’s house-
boat, all green, looked enticingly cool. On
the deck of it, exalted personages posed be-
neath parasols, the best of which was an
ivory-watered silk. Lady Denman hid her-
self under a purple roof. Aides in flannels
and straw hats hurried about regardless of
perspiration, and Dick Nevill was observed,
at intervals, being attentive to everybody.
Mrs. Fairbairn’s presidential barge was
crowded to the edge. The conservative
Alexandra Club’s ark was a socialistic red,
and had green lanterns strung round ready
for the evening.
Mrs. Donald Mackinnon, in a red linen
dress, received the guests and their congrat-
ulations on her stage appearance the night
before. The crowded day wore away in
momentary spurts of excitement, as the rac-
ing boats swept down the course, and ended
gloriously in flirtation and fireworks.
There was an exciting gathering at Fed-
eral Government House, the other mid-day,
when half a dozen men were “invested” with
certain orders by his Vice-Majesty the
G.-G. The victims arrived early, and were
put through an impromptu rehearsal by
Chamberlain Nevill, who had witnessed the
performance often at headquarters. The
comedy was staged in the State drawing-
room, the ballroom being reckoned too vasty
for a handful of people. A score or so of
privileged shes watched from the comfort of
the side lounges. Women are not allowed
at this solemnity in England, but, whilst in
Melbourne, the present Queen created a
precedent, when her husband handed out the
baubles of the year, by inviting herself and
some distinguished sistern to the ceremony.
Admiral Creswell was the only courtier to
be hit on the shoulder in the good old way,
and told to arise and bear the added burden
of “Sir.” The five others were simply
C.M.Geed, or had other alphabet shot at
them.
The small G.-G., in a uniform heaped with
silver lace and tied up with ribbons, clanked
to the dais, while her Ex., in a mouse-col-
ored dress, trailed to her seat. The stage
was crowded with a herd of glittering
Gentlemen Helps, amongst whom was Big-
john Forrest, wearing his own collection of
baubles. First Admiral Creswell, preceded
by Chamberlain Nevill, came bowing up the
aisle,_ and put his head into a collar held
by his Ex. Then he knelt and the plain
Australian tempest howled and dashed hail
against the windows. Six times Nevill
strode up the room, carrying the bauble to
be presented on a velvet cushion, and closely
followed by the docile subject and his two
seconds. Dr. Barrett came bowing in flat
boots and a scarlet cloak to get his C.M.G.
After the batch had been finished, the
party broke up with a clatter of iron-
mongery, and the ladies fluttered from the
lounges to congratulate the decorated half
dozen. Lady Barttelot and Miss Quirk
were with the Denman lady. The dames
of Best, Quick and Cresswell were likewise
on hand ; also Mrs. Atlee Hunt, with a
whole bird of Paradise in her hat, and Mrs.
Pursey Chirnside in a smart morning dress
of dull blue. Forty or fifty invitations were
issued, but, on account of the hostile wea-
ther, only a score or so attended.
The State drawing-room, which has had
the same old wall - paper for the last 20
years or so, has been done up for the Den-
man lady, who wanted a suitable back-
ground for some lovely tapestries she brought
out with her. The job had just been com-
pleted, and the painters hurried out of the
way, before the private theatrical perform-
ance commenced. The new paper is a dull
buff, and the household is now worrying over
patterns of brocade for the lounge covers.
Chintz, of course, is too bedroomy for a
stately apartment which is adorned with the
latest portrait of Queen Mary in her reno-
vated crown.
The Denmans journeyed to Ballarat last
Friday, to learn what the annual South-
street upheaval really means, Twenty bands,
with one mighty blast of “Gorsave,” blew
the party on to the City Oval. The “South-
street” label sticks to the mammoth uproar,
though it long ago outgrew the small South-
street hall where it was started. This was
the Denmans’ first advance on Ballarat, and
they were suitably impressed. (It is a
solemn vice-regal duty to be “impressed”
with the Golden City.) During the recep-
tion, the Mayor presented the Denman lady
with a silver case of rich specimens from
one of the local mines, and Alfred Deakin,
as member for the district, added a sample
of his golden oratory.
The Government House programme for
Cup Week is one dinner and one evening
party on Wednesday; then another dinner
on Thursday, and a garden party on Mon-
day, November G. The list shows that the
guests and the off days are to be filled in
at the same time.
Captain Robb and the staff of Dalgety’s
are clearing the decks of the Demosthenes
for an eight-to-ten party on Friday, Novem-
ber 3. Special trains are to take the guests
alongside the ship.
The Writers’ Club recently farewelled
Margaret Cuthbertson, who is leaving by
the Orsova to bring out a consignment of
Mariannes to the housewifes of this har-
assed country. The women who believe in
importations, human and otherwise, hope
that Miss Cuthbertson’s consignment will
prove docile and unacquainted with the
troublesome Maryanntics of the locals.
An epidemic of measles has been troubling
the W. J. T. Clarke family, of late. When
the trouble appeared, the unspotted mem-
bers of the family fled to a uighboring hash
tower; but, finding they had brought a sup-
ply of measles with them, they fled back
again from the spotted tower.
Mrs. Phyllis Reggie Power is At Homing
on Steeplechase Sunday afternoon. Mrs.
Emmerton, who lives across the road, has
secured the Sabbath which runs second to
Derby Saturday. This day, for years, was
sacred to the “Como” Armytage cherry par-
ties —impressive teas that dated their fruity
title back to the dark ages, when a few
familiar friends came annually to eat cher-
ries from the trees. By the way, Mrs.
Phyllis, etc., has again burst into song as
an authoress. In other words, she proposes
to harness up her boat and launch it once
more on the sea of literature. She is pub-
lishing a second or third chirp shortly.
The National Council of Women fore-
gathered, last Tuesday evening, at the In-
dependent Hall. The Denman lady, who
looked very weary, presided in a sad-looking
cloak of olive-green velvet over a black frock
and fine diamonds. Miss Quirk, in soft
white, and with her hair in quaint soft
curls, snuggled into the depths of a comfort-
able chair; and Captain Stewart-Richard-
son yawned furtively at frequent intervals
in the background. Various delegates rose
in turn, and made uninteresting remarks
amidst the purple and gold platform decora-
tions. Then Dr. Edith Barrett produced a
wad of manuscript, which she read aloud to
the bitter end, or thereabouts, After that,
darkness fell, and the remorseless doctress
jabbed with a long wand at lantern slides
of institutions, while she explained them in-
side and out. I came away with a bursting
head, caused partly by trying to keep count
of the Stewart-Richardson yawns.
Charlie Wallace and Miss Urquhart, a
Western District girl, were married quietly
last Tuesday. They have been staying at
the Oriental Hotel. Probably the bride and
her race-time trousseau will be seen at
Flemington.
The Jack Osborne widow stole a march
on her friends the other day by wedding
unobtrusively with Mr. Trumble, an Ameri-
can woolbuyer. The two will stay in. Me-
lbourne during the race rush, then move
round Australasia in pursuit of the Golden
Fleece, and, finally, sail for America. Mrs.
Stirling lias turned out of her cosy flat in
Flinders-street for them, and is back in her
old quarters at the Grand, till the Cup has
run its course and drained itself to the
dregs,, metaphorically speaking.
Artist John Shirlow has etched a fine
portrait of Bernard O’Dowd, whose poems
are rarely shallower than 100 fathoms, and
frequently swallow the whole of the critic’s
sounding apparatus.
The Lionel Weatherly newly-weds have
returned from their long-distance honey-
moon, which included London and other
places. They will put in a week or two at
the Bill WeatheiT- mansion, down Brighton
way, before returning to squalterdom in the
Western District. Mrs. Lionel belongs to
the Chomley clan, and is a niece of the
veteran Judge who has just stepped officially
off the Bench.
The most daring Caulfield Cupper of all
was she who appeared in a semi-transparent
white dress over black tights.
Secretary Lesley Madden and her com-
mittee patted themselves on the back on
Friday night. They drew a big audience to
the Royal with Oscar Wilde’s “The Import-
ance of Being Earnest,” and sent the con-
gregation away uttering praises. Lesley,
herself, was the Miss Prism of the cast, in
black glace; Mrs. Donald Mackinnon, as
Lady Bracknell, powdered her hair and
donned the lilac silk of a blameless social
life; and the two pretty Levey girls played
rival ingenue parts in white muslin and
rose-wreathed hats. Lawyer Hector Mac- .
Donald and Tommy Cochran wrestled capa-
bly with the principal men parts. The com-
mittee formed itself into an artistic guard
of honor, and lined Lady Fuller’s path to
the box. , Mrs. Ross-Soden blazed in a hun-
ter’s pink'Cloak, and the widow Staughton,
in black, provided a good contrast. Her Ex,
flashed many diamonds, and wore a beauti-
ful cloak—a delicious thing of mild-toned
Oriental embroidery and fringe. Lord Dick
Nevill watched the show, at his ease, from a
seat in the circle.
The house was full of the very best people'
in their very best clothes. The finest toilette
on view was made of rose-pink chiffon.
Bachelor George Allan, with his care-free
smile and benevolent bald patch, both
gleaming, sat with a party of ladies. The
society programme sellers included both
clans of Madden maidens, with their curls
in rose pink snoods. The girl sweet-sellers
had big bows on their well-stocked baskets,
and witching smiles for every nice man.
There must be an interesting growth of old
associations attaching, like ivy, to Norman-
hurst, the secluded house in the higli-walled
garden that is soon to disappear from the
corner of Collins-place and Flinders-street
—“Collins-place” being the high-toned end
of Exhibition-street. It happened, the other
day, that Mr. George Ireland was invited to
dinner at the ancient boarding-house, and
the fittings of the room reminded him that
he had once sat in the same place as the
guest of G. V. Brooke. To the veteran
George Ireland, with his memory still going-
strong, the incidents of 50 years ago are
quite modern events; out the city is so al-
tered since he was a young actor, that he
had only the vaguest recollections of Nor-
manhurst until he got inside the house. And
then the social scene in which he had played
with the visiting star came back to him, and
the world seemed half a century younger.
Melba had a wonderful first night at Her
Majesty’s. Nearly everyone came early, the
awful dread of closed doors hurrying up the
dawdling dressers as no maddened husband
could have done. Not one of them would
have willingly missed the triumph of Melba’s
entrance. Violetta made a glittering de-
scent into the supper room of the first
scene. Her dress, flared and flounced in the
approved style of a Louis XIV. dame, left
the shoulders quite bare. Around the
singer’s neck, great rubies glowed amid a
frosty sparkle of diamonds. The instant
Melba appeared, the house rose and roared
like two oceans and a menagerie of unfed
lions. She bowed low, in an athletic way,
several times, and then signalled to the audi-
ence with an imperious wave of the hand
to cease making a noise. The applause
drained away. Then she unloosed the
whole aviary and the house felt that it had
got its money’s worth. There was Melba—
with ’em all on!
Everyone who had had sufficient luck was
jammed in somewhere. The gallery was
full of well-groomed heads and shoulders.
At 10s. a head, the tony gods were getting
better value than some of their guinea
friends below. The value of the house —
£lBOO or so —will be chalked up reverenti-
ally in many box offices.
Just before the start. , G.-G. Denman
marched in at the head of a battalion.
Every Gentleman Help turned up, and the
two reserved boxes were so full that some
of the Helps had to perch on the ledges.
Chamberlain Nevill stood in the shadow and
kept his glasses on the stage all through the
first act. The G.-G. was richly ribboned.
Her Ex. was gowned sombrely in black,
with a coat of flimsy black and gold mar-
quisette. Her diamond coronet, of course,
flashed expensively on her brow. Lady
Barttelot wore good, old-fashioned puce.
She favors the cherry-purple tint that only
good complexions can dare. At Henley she
wore the trying color, with fuchsias in her
hat.
Dad Mitchell, very proud and critical, sat
with son Charles, and the Lemprieres.
Boxes, Pattersons, and others of the Mit-
chell clan were scattered at various points.
Dr. Barrett, who was C.M.Geed during the
week, was on hand amongst other devoted
first-nighters; and the Bendigo Halls list-
ened and watched in the stalls. The Fair-
bairns were comfortably boxed; and the
auburn-haired youngest girl turned her
white-draped shoulders. to the stage and
watched the record house, the well-lit,
motored tail of which stretched from the
doors to the very outskirts of the city.
Melba has booked a flat at Melbourne
Mansions for race-time use. The combina-
tion of racing, singing and functioning will
sometimes keep the singer too tired for the
50-minute car spin to the distant Lilydale
cottage.
The Swastika Dramatic Circle bade Doro-
thea Baird Irving to the Club rooms on
October 27. The guest duly arrived, in a
trailing purple and black gown, and violet-
wreathed hat. A recitation by Unie Rus-
sell, and some piano melody, interrupted
the gossipers twice, and tea was subse-
quently served in a daisy-decked room.
Dolores and co. fluttered through Mel-
bourne, on Henley Day, on their way from
the Flyspeck to Sydney.
From my Adelaide correspondent:—
The week has been a welter of conferences. The
Esperanto enthusiasts propagated the linguistic faith
that is in them for all they were worth; and the
anti-gamblers spent many strenuous hours denounc-
ing gambling, especially “Tatt.’s” But, alas, the
possibility of getting £5OOO for ss. has an abiding
attraction. The ceaseless efforts of the Righteous
to eliminate it may be said to be so many struggles
to bring off a million to one chance.
The latest development of the controversy anent
the North Terrace gardens is the outbreak of a wild
argument between the Legislative Council and the
City ditto. More or less unveiled hints have been
projected, suggesting mutual lack of veracity. Mean-
while, summer is upon us, and all we have in the
way of shade growths are a few arid heaps of road
metal.
The citizens of Tiny Town have been driven to
take rooms near the Exhibition. The populace de-
veloped a disconcerting habit of mobbing the midgets
whenever they appeared in the streets —not in anger,
mark you, but from that curiosity which is some-
thing akin to affection. By the way, one of the
midgets attempted to stop a runaway the other day.
That is to say, the dauntless mannikin stood, with
arms outstretch d, before the approaching avalanche,
till he was yanked out of the danger zone by a full-
grown citizen. This city is glad all round that its
small visitors aren’t going to be quite so much in
evidence. There is something peculiarly nerve-
wracking in unexpectedly treading on a midget.
The Rose Show would have been a bigger success
-—qua Rose Show —had the roses not been as scarce
as rum in Arcady. The few that were shown were
perfect—in fact, one may almost say, bosker —blooms.
And the columbines, sweet-pea and pelargoniums
were exquisite. There were only two decorated
dinner tables, and the judges gave pride of place
to that of Mrs. T. W. Babbage.
The Mercantile Rowing Club opened its season on
Saturday. The day was fine, as also was the tea
given by the patron (Mr. W. L. Ware).
Miss Isabel Beresford has just married Mr. Wood-
ham, of Burmah. The Beresfords are an old-estab-
lished Adelaide clan, and Mr. Woodham has relations
engaged in fruit-growing at Renmark. The honey-
mooners are at Victor Harbor. They will put in a
week in Adelaide before departing for the “East.”
Commandant Lee has left for Sydney. He and his
wife were popular here. Colonel Le Messuner, his
successor, has taken a house in North Adelaide.
The list of intended departures steadily grows.
Dr. and Mrs. Charles Todd leave for England in
early Deeember, and the MacDiarmids are making
preparations for surveying the Durbar. Miss Isabel
Marryat is also bound for England, and goes next
week.
The Lyric Club entertained Miss Ethel Irving the
other night. The entertaining of visiting stars is
becoming a chronic habit with this club.
The Literary Theatre gave a very creditable ren-
dering of Ibsen’s “The Master Builder.” Church
and stage foregathered amicably, with the object of
making the show a success. The Rev. D Sykes, of
Stow Church, was able to give the performers some
valuable hints.
Tuesday was a perfect day for the small Govern-
ment House garden party. Lady Bosanquet, a fer-
vent flower-lover, has vastly improved the vice-regal
grounds. Hitherto, they’ve been mostly a wilderness
of battered shrubs and snail-gnawed geraniums. The
guests were received on the lawn, and thence ushered
through the reception-rooms to the ball-room for
afternoon tea. Lady Bosanquet was in a soft powder
blue frock—one of her favorite shades. Miss Bosan-
quet’s pink muslin showed a white fichu.
On a vastly different scale was the Mayoral garden
party yesterday, when some 4000 guests assembled
at the A.R.C. racecourse, at the invitation of the
Mayor and Mrs. Cohen. Everything—grounds,
weather, dressing, hostess and host —was delightful.
It is evidently time for the picture-shows to start
building theatres for themselves. Their monopoly
of our civic halls is beginning to be resented. Chief
Justice Way was absolutely peevish t’other night,
when the Bible Society was perforce relegated to the
Victoria Hall, as a result of the flickergraph occu-
pying the town establishment.
Sincerely yours,
JOHANNA.


SI
'•■•ML.'
.. tk
4
rm
r>r-
s&sa
i>.vi
/ , f 4.
",*?jßi
'-I* "Vi-.
r
*a
ft. ' I 4 i
K»snn&
;
yaws
s-f
esss
■■■
ajri*
i
■
«U fe ;vj k% f,: : . . ••
1
tw
f «
■ ■ s
i*' ;;. -vt ■
im
3.wm
* 3BP nV
ws^' :
*
■■l
MM
gffil ISM
%k- ft
: .z. s
= . ■, . : $
'■ : ’ c
. . t.J> . . £y h .
. ' • ", / f-
fm
IS e a
•V
mm*
__ I
*fj | ;>* rm
ms
wm
mm
HP
• < - !«»
. \; ', '
V -
\ : ■
■ ■
fv .
I .
SCHWEPPE
(mil
yi | Ptfn evw* iJ , t t m ic,
j m vajut' mi >:nnx
ft Hp im, ?«<sNCt u- vt
' j ***** c-r wAtesl
/ »■&s f* -THf
/>V?LL4-ONpON
jhkj
Made from Fresh Lemons.
Mixed with •Schweppes* Soda Water or Lithia Water,
maK.es a most Delightful and Refreshing DrinK.
Purveyors o/ Mineral "Waters to His Majesty the King.
Head Office: 49 Pall Mall, London.
Agencies throughout
the World.
OXHVS
THE NEW DRINK.
Palatable and Refreshing. Made from the Best
Jamaica Sarsaparilla Root. A Blood Purifier.
BOTTLED by SCHWEPPES LTD.


jhk
r
hjk
You never know your
luck till the numbers
go up, but you're on
a winner if it's
Watson’s No. 10
Whisky.
Join the Army
Of those who have tested the wonderful remedial
virtues of Dr. Sheldon’s Magnetic Liniment. It
gives speedy relief whenever applied to a burn,
blister, bruise, ■or a pain or sore of any nature.
Price,-Is. 6d. and ss.*
51-
JUST TO ADVERTISE ! !
A Sixpenny Bottie'of CALDWELL’S INK
and a Half-Cuinea 14-carat Iridium
Tipped Twin-Feed Fountain Pen for
If you can’t buy it locally, send Postal
Note direct to
CALDWELL’S INKS PTY. LTD.,
Yarra Bank Road, Melbourne.
ECZEMA—THE
SKIN SCOURGE.
«
This Man Tortured Night and
Day —Cured by Rich New
Blood*
♦
Eczema is one of the most torturing of
Skin Disorders. The burning, itching, prick-
ling sensation is often maddening. Some-
times persons apparently healthy in every
other way are attacked. Often it is a symptom
in stomach trouble, rheumatism, gout or a
generally low state of health. Lotions and
ointments are only of value to allay the itch-
ing sensation. They do not cure. All the
highest medical authorities agree that a
tonic is necessary to drive the complaint
from the system.
Amongst tonics, Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills
stand alone. They actually make the new
good blood that drives the impurities from
the system and leaves the skin soft and
smooth as a child’s.
“For months I suffered with Eczema,”
said Mr. Malachi O’Mara, 409 Lonsdale
Street, Melbourne, Victoria. “It first ap-
peared on my arms, and then spread all
down the front of my body, on to my thighs,
and as far as the calves of my legs, in the
form of a dry scale which would rub off in a
dry powder. If I rubbed the skin hard it
would go quite raw and inflamed. I could
not go to business for some weeks. Count-
less tiny red pimples with matter would
push through the skin and a rash would
come out in large patches. I might say my
body was covered with small sores, and as
fast as some would go others would come. I
got very thin. I could not eat or sleep for
the terrible itching. I was told if I took
mineral water baths I would get better, so
I went to Daylesford and took them for
some weeks. They didn’t do me any good,
so I bought some ointment and took sulphur,
thinking that might cure me, but it did not.
It would only stop the itching for a little
while. I grew quite ill with worry and
weakness. I thought I was permanently
affected, when one day I read that Dr. Wil-
liams’ Pink Pills would cure Eczema, so 1
sent at once and got some, and took between
nine and ten boxes altogether, and here is
the result; I am completely cured, and my
skin is as clear as ever it was. If it had
not been for Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills 1
don’t think that I would ever have got
better. I am sure no one ever suffered more
than I did, and in curing me Dr. Williams
Pink Pills have proved their worth —I shall
always adyertise them.” _ .
Don’t let any dealer talk you into taking
something which he says is “just as good.
If you are pestered to take a substitute,
send 2s. 9d. for one box, or 15s. 3d. for six
boxes, to the Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co. ot
Australasia Ltd-, Sydney.
OPTuRE
In hot weath-
eratrussvvith
steel bands is
unbearable.
Denyer’s
Special Elas-
tic Truss
none, is, per-
fectly com-
fortable /and
c o o l,r and
OENYCR
Single, 17/6!
Double, 22/6.
Others from 3/6
“fully supports. DENYER BROS.','Truss & Abdo
miiial Belt Makers, 281 GEORGE STREET (opp
Hunter Street), SYDNEY,; and corner Swanstcn
and Lonsdale Sreets, Melbourne.
POLITICAL
POINTS
It was so like Victoria’s utterly tired
Premier, that nobody even took the trouble
to put in proper order the proclamation dis-
solving the local Assembly. So a shocked
but sloppy Ministry had to take legal advice
as to whether it had shut up the House on
the 24th or the 31st. And if the advice is
wrong, the elections may be illegal, because,
in Victoria, a certain time must elapse be-
tween the dissolution and the election. So
the new House may be illegal, and,
the new House being illegal and the old
one gone, there tvill be no House. And, con-
sequently, there will be no Government.
And then there won’t even be anybody who
is legally empowered to take steps to get a
real House, and in the confusion Victoria,
as a lost land with no definite status, will
probably he annexed by Tasmania.
The cold, heroic Wade, addressing a
little meeting of cockies at Bective or there-
abouts, was asked: “Now, what about the
Wade Government and the Gunnible sub-
division?” “That is a fool’s question,”
-snapped the courteous statesman. “Yes, but
can’t another fool answer it?” came the re-
tort; and that “loud laughter” somehow
didn’t get into the Sydney papers to prove
how Mr. Wade had fascinated the country’s
backbone.
TO KNOW ALL IS TO FORGIVE ALL.
It is true that the Speaker irritated Mr, Wood,
but then, Mr. Wood is very easily irritated, and Mr.
Wood has said things and done things that have
irritated the Speaker. The House, in fact, has got
itself into a state of hyper-sesthesia; its nerves are
overwrought, and there is a continual condition of
overstrain. —Sydney E. News.
THE COURT : “ You are charged with assault
with intent to do grievous bodily harm.
How do you plead , Guilty or Not Guilty?"
PRISONER: “ Neither, yer Honor. Tin suffer-
ing from hyper-cesthesia."
Thrower, M.L.A., gave way to unreason-
ing anger re the foolish strictures of ex-G.-G.
Dudley, and brought up the matter in
N.S.W. Assembly after this fashion: —
Mr. Thrower: He states that members of Parlia-
ment in Australia generally are simply a number of
men living on the game
Mr. Price : It is absolutely true.
Mr. Thrower: What! Do you plead guilty?
Mr. Scobie asked if the Premier would take steps
to authenticate the alleged statement before he took
any action.
Why this heat? Isn’t Dudley a hereditary
landlord living on the game? Isn’t Geo. V.
a kinv. and the Archbish. of Canterbury a
cleric living on the game? Isn’t Price a
half-tailor and half-politician living on two
games? Dudley is interesting in his way.
But it isn’t worth while getting angry about
Dudley.
TOO MUCH DELAY.
MANUFALTURER : “ Throw us a rope."
LABOR PARTY : “ I will after the other chap
is safe."
MANUEACDURER : “ Then we'll both drown."
There are three or four matters in which
Canada sets an example worth following.
They include its High Protection, its bank-
ing system, its law under which Stinking
Fish persons can be put in gaol, and the
fact that it doesn’t struggle to crowd all
its population into a few huge cities. The
census shows that Canada has 7,100,000
people, which is about 2,500,000 more than
the human contents of Australia. Yet its
most bloated city, Montreal, has only
466,000 _ people, against Australia’s chief
bloat, with 650,000, and its second biggest
city (Toronto) has 376,000 against Mel-
buorne’s 600,000 or more. Canada’s two
big cities stand for one-ninth of the popula-
tion, whereas Australia’s bulky pair repre-
sent more than one-fourth.
Maoriland proposes to follow Australia’s
example by issuing Government notes.
Against the first £3,000,000 worth of notes
issued, £750,000 is to be held in cash, so that
the State will proiaably Have £2,250,000 to
plav with. All notes over £3,000,000 are to
be covered by a cash reserve of 20s. in the £.
It is noteworthy tnat Ward’s scheme repro-
duces to the letter the weak
points of Fisher’s. There is no
provision for keeping the notes
in circulation, as in Canada;
and there is no proviso for using
this easily-got money as a pub-
lic debt sinking fund, in order
to shift the stupendous public
burden on one hand, and, on
the other, to entrench the note
issue behind an ever-growing
heap of public securities. So far
as can be seen, Ward is just
going to have a fine big public
blow-out with the £2,250,000.
A great blower-out is Ward.
With the big loan he is just
floating, he should have nearly £4,000,000
with which to paint his islands a bright raw-
meat color.
This is the notice of motion which the
cantankerous little Fitzpatrick dabbed on
the N.S.W. Assembly notice* paper last
week :
That, because of the lack of knowledge of the
rules and nrocedure of Parliament,,' B jhis frequent
erroneous rulings, his obvious partiality (towards the
Ministerial iSarty, his unfair and arrogant treatment
of the Opposition, in addition to his tyrannical de-
meanor generally, the continued occupancy of the
Speaker’s Chair by the hon. member for the Upper
Hunter constitutes a grave public scandal, and is
a standing menace to what should be .the free in-
stitution of Parliament.
If Minister for Labor Millar does not
soon carry -out his-threat to -alter the-Con-
stitution of the Maoriland Arbitration
Court, so many unions will have seceded
from registration under the Act that the
Court will have no justification for taking
its eight bob a day, or whatever wage it is
paid. Already the big miners’ and shearers’
unions have struck the Court off their visit-
ing list, two or three smaller unions have
done likewise, others are reaching for the
blue pencil, while the balance are muttering
and even bellowing in their beards. The
mates on the smaller coastal vessels who
downed sextants after receiving from the
Court an award which they looked upon as
the dead finish, are still chewing their quids
ashore; and, at the time of writing, the
chances of the trouble spreading are sig-
nalled in the offing. The Court is now faced
with the demands of the officers on steamers
of 1000 tons and upward, and if they receive
as much as did the officers of the smaller
steamers, the ensuing storm is likely to leave
the Court with much wreckage on the lee
shore of its horsehair.
This item appeared in the S. M. Herald
of last Friday :
“TOWNS WHILE YOU WAIT.”
THE CANADIAN METHOD.
Ottawa, Oct. 26.
ft*, A ,," evv ,. tovvn , Coronation, has been established in
w the Canadian west in remarkable circumstances.
The Canadian-Pacific railway cut up a strip of
prairie, laid out a town site, and then ran a railway
to it. A crowd of settlers arrived by the first pas-
senger train, and a large number of houses were at
once erected, and several shops are now doing busi-
ness, and a newspaper is being issued.
The passenger train was only a mile behind the
track-laying machine when the latter reached Coro-
nation.
And N.S.W. might have Cities While You
Wait at places like Port Stephens and Two-
fold Bay, with lots of new towns behind
them, if dreadful but influential papers like
the S. M. Herald didn’t want all the popula-
tion congested at their office doors. Canada
has some 2,500,000 more people than Aus-
tralia., yet its two biggest cities are only a
little more than half the size of Australia’s
two biggest. The people who rushed to the
new Canadian town of Coronation were the
people who weren’t crowded into the cities.
And they got to Coronation because it was a
desirable spot with a railway. The reason
why people don’t get to places like Twofold
Bay and Port Stephens is that they are de-
sirable spots without any railway.
The sickest man in Australian politics to-
day is W. H. Wood. He has sworn in the
most public and bellowdramatic fashion that
he will not apologise for his insults to
Speaker Willis and the N.S.W. Legislative
Ass. After all that has passed, the consum-
ing of humble pie, in this connection, would
be about as alluring a feast for Wood as a
quart of Yarra mud. If he is to get back to
Parliament without swallowing the loathly
meal, he must ask Bega to endorse the im-
becilities he has indulged in during the past
two months. But he has reason to think
that Bega eyes him coldly, not to say
angrily; and that an appeal to that arbit-
rament is unsafe. And so he remains a
lonely, miserable politician, with nowhere
that he can curse and howl and talk fight in
safety.
Maitland (N.S.W.) returned a “Liberal” at
Saturday’s by-election just as it used to do,
but whereas the late J. Gillies won the seat
in 1910 by a majority of 1617, it was held
this time by a very much diminished major-
ity of 795. Labor-candidate Vial received
2091 votes last year, while this year he
found 2900 supporters. Liverpool Plains,
where the other by-election happened, is a
curious sort of animal. In 1910 it gave
Labor-man Horne a majority of 792. Horne
resigned because his party wobbled on the
leasehold question, and Liverpool Plains
went “Liberal” by a majority of three —re-
duced on a re-count to a dead heat. Now it
goes Labor again by about 500. Adding the
two results together, Labor is a gainer in
votes. The Government party has now a
majority of two while Willis is in the chair,
or rather three until Wood apologises to
Willis; and it will have four (provided
Wood doesn’t apologise) if another Labor
man is elected for Cobar in the place
of the late Donald Macdonell —which is
practically certain.
Ex-G-.G. Dudley’s yarn in England about
payment of members having produced a
breed of professional politicians in Austra-
lia resurrects Peter McGregor, who served
a few months in the N.S.W. Assembly when
it wasn't paid. McGregor and his crowd
wanted to get the right to build a railway
from Broken Hill to the S. Aus. border, and
the festive and affluent Peter, who was
chairman of the Broken Hill Proprietary
Co., was chosen for the job of rolling the
Bill through. There was no trouble about
getting him a seat —in those days the two
or three members for Wentworth and the
Far West were always appointed by a few
Melbourne .squatters at Scott’s-Hotel. Peter
soon had his Bill going, and when it was
through, “urgent private business” deman-
ded his retirement —and he retired accord-
ingly. “Well, you got it through, Peter!”
somebody sa,id during the subsequent cham-
pagne bath at Silverton. “Got it through !”
said Peter, in scorn of the ease of the job.
“Why, with the same grease you could get
a Bill through to link up with the moon.”
Peter-s Bill is still- l&w, and thb Silverton
Tramway Co. is -still -drawing its 169 per
cent, per annum on the capital it put up.
You see unpaid members have so often to
pay themselves. One reason why the
British private enterprise railways are such
unpayable propositions is that they have to
earn dividends on an immensity of “gfease”
that went to the unpaid members-of- the
British Parliament.
S. M. Herald, re the Burrinjuck
(JS.S.W.) dam, which won’t be regdy for
business as soon as was anticipated :
Had day labor been employed, the delay would
have been laid to its charge, although, as we can
now see, altogether different causes were and are at
work
And this paper is willing to lay a fiver to a
brass farthing that had day labor been em-
ployed, one of the first journals to yell “I
.told yer so,” would have been the S. M.
Herald.
A rapidly-increasing trade in the no-license
districts of Maoriland is that of the “drop-
per,” who takes orders for smuggled grog
and leaves the loaded bottles at a spot agreed
upon by the parties to the deal. The pur-
chaser removes the goods as convenient. It
was stated before a Masterton magistrate, a
few days ago, that one woman “dropper” in
the town could conceal 12 bottles of beer
about her person.
Extract from a letter by “P.H.,” of Vic-
toria
Re “The Necessity for Kicking John Weary” (B.
19/10/’ll). In the course of your just indictment
of that strangler of this State, you say:—
“Victoria is retarded some more by the circum-
stance that it includes a larger proportion of pic-
turesque, but barren and almost inaccessible, moun-
tain country than any other mainland State. Also,
it is already by far the most thickly peopled of all
the States, so it has less room for expansion than
its neighbors.”
Here I think you concede too much to Weary. 1
consider the “barren and almost inaccessible” moun-
tains of north-eastern Vic. as among its best assets;
not, certainly, for their beauties, but for their
economic value as steady contributors to the water
supply of the northern half of the State. Their
snows are really natural reservoirs of moisture for the
warm fertile lands that lie between the Murray and the
Dividing Range, awaiting exploitation when a sane
Government develops the Victorian irrigation system
to its logical conclusion. From the S.A. border to
the foot of the mountain chain, the soil is rich and
varied, and the climate warm. Thousands of acres
are suitable for intense culture, tens of thousands
will grow lucerne, and millions are good for wheat-
growing. But the rainfall is a little scanty. The
conservation of the rain and snowfall is all that is
necessary to make this fragment of Victoria capable
of carrying 5,000,000 people.
There is still plenty of room for settlement in Vic-
toria. In fact, there is more available land than
ever there has been accessible before. Almost the
whole State has to be settled over again. It is
notorious that there are hundreds of localities where
once 10 or a dozen families were reared, which now
are like Goldsmith’s “Deserted Village.” Re-
visiting recently the scenes of my boyhood, on the
Pentland Hills, near Ballarat, I found a cron of oats
growing where the old common school (No. 702)
used to shelter 50 scholars. And that is onei case in
many.
THE SITE OF FOOLS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A sum of £lOO,OOO is set down for establishing'
the Federal capital at Canberra. —Budget item.
Scene : A Blasted Heath. . . .—Macbeth.
Rock, and gorge, and dust;
Scrub and fallen tree —-
Kerosene tin —bust;
Lizards running free.
Here and there a tent,
Shows a dingy peak,
Where the dwellers went
Hunting for the creek.
Hungry is the land—
Stony, brown and bare ;
Thirsty is the band
Stuck forlornly there!
Desolate and dry,
Round and round about —-
Winds that whistle by,
Speak of Coming Drought.
Should it strike next week
On the Site of Fools,
With Molonglo Creek
Just a chain of pools.
What, oh, what the tale
That we shall be told ?
“Rivers never fail . . .
Mountains full of gold! . . .
Scenery superb! . . .
Cataracts and lakes . . .
Pools no winds disturb . . .
Not a sign of snakes. . . .
Thus —and thus —and thus —-
Through the Press that rules.
Comes the tale to us,
From the Site of Fools !
N.S.W.
PETRONIUS EARBITER.


Are You Thinking
of Buying a Piano?
Before you decide on an instrument, come to
NICHOLSON’S.
bh
We are the Largest
Importers of Pianos in
Australia, and are thus able to
sell at LOWER PRICES than
any other firm.
Let us explain our System of Easy Payments*
Nicholson 8 Co., Limited,
342 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
NEWCASTLE, ORANGE, BRISBANE, TOOWOOMBA
n
90.
Ot*
Who are the Pioneers of Cinematography?
Everyone knows that
pathe freres
hold this proud distinction.
THEIR FILMS AND MACHINES
are so justly celebrated in every country in the world that
ADVERTISING IS UNNECESSARY.
A WORD OF ADVICE!
Watch the columns of
“PATHE’S WEEKLY.”
The first Australian bulletin of Cinematography. Week by week you will see
the latest news about
THE PATHE PRODUCTIONS,
and all about Cinematography.
Pathe
51 & 53 ELIZABETH
ST., SYDNEY.
95 Grenfell Street, ADELAIDE.
672 Hay Street, PERTH.
Send G/G to
Freres
50 QUEEN STREET,
MELBOURNE.
76 Queen Street, BRISBANE.
66 Elizabeth Street, HOBART.
And 291 Hunter Street, WELLINGTON,
and the paper will be posted to you week fay week for one year.
Ssar
fM
GRAND OPERA
AT HOME.
GRAND Opera is in the air. Everybody is talking of the Melba
Grand Opera Co., many thousands have heard it, and thou-
sands more will do so. But what of those, who by force of
ciicumstance or distance from the city are unable to enjoy such a
rare musical feast?
The Edison Phonograph with Edison Grand Opera Records
solves the problem. It is the last word in a home entertainer. Its
sweetness and clearness are most beautiful, eminently suitable for
the reproduction of the voices of the world’s operatic stars. Its
volume of sound is just right for the home —your home.
The range of choice of Edison Grand Opera Records is not by
any means limited. It is being increased month by month by the
addition of further successes.
If you love good music go to the nearest dealer and hear the
Edison Grand Opera Records. Get lists from your dealer or from us.
Edison Phonographs
NATIONAL PHONOGRAPH CO. OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.,
(Wholesale only), Dept. B, 364=372 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
V
iX
• •'U
Xv
m
V .
Fi
*
%
\
*
■.
the
price
and
r
Vacm
It
jDrm
o
the.
V


On
Everybody’
Lips.
m
£EfMT
r
O
v
?r Rh
Six-Day
Bicycle Race
and Cycling Carnival.
Promoter: J. D. WILLIAMS.
Prize Money: £1650
Sydney Cricket Grounds.
COMMENCING
JANUARY 1, 1912.
Are you frequently hoarse? Do you have that
annoying tickling in the throat? Does your cough
trouble you in the night, and do rise mucus in the
morning? Do you want relief? If so, take Cham-
berlain’s Cough Remedy, and you will be pleased.*
ASSIST NATURE.
OLD BLAYNEY RESIDENT FOUND
DR. MORSE’S INDIAN ROOT PILLS
BROUGHT GENUINE RELIEF FROM
CONSTIPATION.
“Some twelve years ago,” writes Mr. G.
Bevear, Ogilvie Street, Blayney, “I was a
sufferer from rupture, and as nature needed
some assistance, being more or less consti-
pated, I found nothing so good for genuine
relief as Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills, and
I always keep them by me for use. As a
family remedy I can also recommend them.
At Blayney I am a resident for forty-three
years, and well known. You can use thi>
testimony.”
Nature often requires a little assistance,
and if this assistance is given at the first
indication much distress and suffering may
be averted. Mothers, especially, should
guard the health of their children, and in-
culcate regular habits from infancy.
As a family remedy for Costiveness, Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills have a wide repu-
tation. They are mild in their action, caus-
ing neither weakness or sickness, and do not
gripe.
To overcome constipation take from one
to four pills regularly until the bowels
move daily, and are restored to healthy ac-
tion.
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents-RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Brewery and Offices :
Dowling Street, REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
.Next Saturday begins the race-meeting
winch costs young Australia (.and many of Ins
elders) five times as much money as any other ex-
pensive entertainment of its kind. Not only does
the sporting public, so-called, subscribe heavily to
the gentry who live by the game, and who often stack
the cards, which would always be fairly dealt by a
Totalisator; but, in addition, thousands of occa-
sional punters, on the spot, and all around the Com-
monwealth, lose their coin. For their information
the coming disaster is discussed, a week before the
event, by one who knows a little more than they,
but a lot less than —Solomon Green, f’rinstance. It
is an old-established fact that the Melbourne Stakes,
as a rule, and the V.1t.0. Derby, less frequently,
offer both wolves and lambs the best up-to-date “in-
formation” for the Cup. This year, the four ap-
proved cracks of the moment —Malt King, Comedy
King, Trafalgar and Lady Medallist—-are likely run-
ners for the Stakes, and the first-named should win
if he is still the hero he was three weeks ago. Tra-
falgar, the hardy stayer of the quartette, can’t be
expected to do more than finish in the first flight
with his more brilliant rivals. If Bridge, Aurofo-
dina or Cadonia (especially the first or last named)
gets fairly amongst the cracks at w.f.a., the tip will
be worth taking, for Bridge, a proved two-miler in
Maoriland, is said to be recovering the form he has
not yet shown in Australia, and Cadonia did well
when he ran second to Trafalgar in the Randwick
Plate (two miles) at a difference of 71b.
The Derby appears to be a struggle between Cisco,
Jacamar, Piastre, Woolerina and Flaith, nothing else
looking dangerous. Whereas Jacamar is an absurdly
false-priced favorite, for market reasons, Cisco, on
paper, is a real good thing for the Derby, now that
the handsome little fellow has shaken off the cold
he acquired after smothering the opposition in the
A.J.C. Derby. The stable reckons Cisco to be
quite himself again, or even better. Jacamar has
twice beaten Woolerina, who subsequently beat
Flaith; yet it seems unreasonable to expect him
to have improved sufficiently to turn the tables on
the colt that flew away from him at Randwick last
month. Piastre, by Positano, has not yet met the
other three-year-olds. He ran a good race in the
Metropolitan—fourth to Malt King, Lady Medallist
and Hartfell —and next to Cisco he has the best 11
mile credentials of any of this season’s youngsters.
Now, for the older nags engaged in the Cup. The
writer’s fancies, taking them alphabetically, are
Aurofodina, Bridge, Cadonia, Camballo, Comedy
King, Didus, Flavian, Lord Nolan, Prizefighter, Sand-
bath, The Parisian, Trafalgar and Woad. The ob-
jection to Camballo, the “dark” horse, is that the
bookmakers, thus far, have paid no attention to the
whispers of his being a rod in pickle, and have laid
100 to one against him to any customer who came
along. Woad, a difficult horse to manage, will
probably be publicly tested again in the Hotham
Handicap, next Saturday, and, if he wins that event,
the light-weighted four-year-old will have a solid
claim to respect for the Cup. In the meantime,
this selection may be boiled down to Bridge, Cadonia,
Comedy King, Didus, Trafalgar and the best of the
three-year-olds on the V.R.C. Derby running—-prob-
ably Cisco and Piastre. Trafalgar has already car-
ried something more than 9st. in two Cups, and been
pretty near winning each time. Last year he was
unlucky to lose the race to Comedy King (7st.
111 b.). who was coughing at the time. With no
eonsnicouslv smart middle- or light-weighted veterans
in the field, it is fairly assumed that Trafalgar,
handicanned with 71b. more than he carried last
vear, will finish in the first three. Also, it is evi-
dent that the rather hollow-backed Comedy King,
for all his comparative brilliancy, is not the proved
stayer under a heavy burden that old Trafalgar is.
Tf the Cup were a 12-furlong race, the black, Eng-
lish-bred horse, now only 4-J years old, would be
an even-money chance, but his stamina is ques-
tioned —outside of the stable. Anyhow, the odds
against either of the top-weights will probably be
verr short on the day, and, if they are not verv
short indeed, neither of them will be worth backing.
The wr : ter tips
Comf.pt Kino
for the Cup under protest, and likes the look of
Cisco, and fancies Deeside for the Maribyrnong
Plate, and has a horrible suspicion that his predic-
tions will turn out to be unworthy of the ink de-
voted to them.
* * » *
From “10-2-4” :
In the forthcoming Melbourne Cup the public has
made the two top-weights, Comedy King (9st. 71b.)
and Trafalgar (9st. 91b.), favorites, and is backing
them at absurdly short odds. My purpose is to
show that, if either of them wins, it will be against
pretty well all the rules of the game as it has
been played here for the past quarter of a century
or more. In the first place, a big handicap, unlike
a w.f.a. event, is demonstrably bad business for the
top weights. They haven’t to run one race during
the lengthy journey, but perhaps half a dozen. One
sprinter after another must be tackled and beaten,
and then, perchance, at the end, some lightly -
burdened outsider forges to the front, and snares the
prize. This has probably a good deal to do with
the fact that, in the last 30 years, the Cup has been
won by only four horses carrying more than 9st. —
and one of them was the incomparable Carbine. For
the rest, consider some of the paltry-weighted Cup
winners: Banker (sst. 41b.), Lantern (Gst. Bib.), Don
Juan (6st. 121 b.), Haricot (6st. 71b.), Briseis (6st.
41b.), Chester (6st. 121 b.), Grand Flaneur (6st.
101 b.), Zulu (sst. 101 b.), Poseidon (7st. 61b.),
Lord Nolan (6st. 101 b.), and so on. Last year
Trafalgar was favorite with over 9st. He ran
second. He is a great horse, and might have won
had he not been bumped hard and often during the
journey. This is another peril that menaces _ the
horse that carries weight in a big field, and it is
one that will certainly menace Trafalgar and Comedy
King next Tuesday. A bump, in the ease of a top-
weight, takes a terrible lot of recovering from —a
fact which the great army of favorite-stiffeners
well know. ....
The winning zone, on the form of the past 30
years, is nowhere near the 9st. odd that the present
Cup favorites are to carry, but is rather somewhere
between 7st. 41b. and Bst. There is a curious tend-
ency for the Cup to be won by horses carrying an
increasingly big weight for three successive years;
for a slump to occur ; and then for the former pro-
cess to be repeated. I'or example, in the years ’92,
’93 and ’94, the winning weights were respectively
7st. 131 b., Bst. 41b. and 9st. 31b. In ’95, there was
a slump to 7st. 41b. In 1900, ’Ol and ’O2 the win-
ning weights were 7st., 7st. 101 b. and Bst. 131 b.
Next year there was a fall to Gst. 81b. In 1903, ’O4
and ’O5 the weights were 6st. 81b., 7st. 61b. and Bst.
In 1906, the winner carried 7st. 61b. In 1908, ’O9 and
’lO, the usual rise occurred, the winning weights
being 6st. 101 b., 7st. 81b. and 7st. 111 b. Is it un-
reasonable to look for the usual drop this year ? As
regards Comedy King, it is worth mentioning, in
passing, that, if he wins next week, he will accom-
plish that which only one other horse in the history
of Australian racing has managed to do; namely,
win two Melbourne Cups. Archer achieved the feat
half a century ago. All things considered, I shall
accordingly look for the victor among the likely
horses below the 7st. 111 b mark. And the best of
of them seems to be Piastre (6st. 81b.), who is
fast, a stayer and as game as they make them.
While the top weights haven’t been able to do much
good in the matter of firsts, they have scored a
number of seconds and thirds. Fifteen horses, carry-
ing over 9st., have run into places in the last 30
years. Comedy King—strong enough to pull a dray
and as active as a cat —looks a sound investment for
a place at almost any price; though, for the reasons
stated above, he should find it hard to win. The
words that I shall murmur into the shell-like ear of
the community will therefore be: “Piastre to win,
Comedy King a place.” And even if they both
finish down the course, I shall still be cheered' by the
reflection that they did so in rank defiance of most
of the laws of chance and logic.
The Sam McVea who made an unholv
exhibition of Billiam Lang at the McStadium, Syd-
ney, on Saturday night, was very different from the
man who got a points decision over Lester in the
same establishment a month ago. On that occasion,
he was either out of form and taking no risks, or he
was extending to a fellow-citizen the glad hand that
refraineth from the bad biff. The general feeling was
that the latter influence was at work, and comment
was frequent and fairly free, for charity to the in-
dividual doesn’t cover the sin of putting up a fake
on the multitude. The which reflections no douht
urged the sunburnt Scotchman to get busy on his
second appearance. Poor, old brittle Bill! Five
minutes after he climbed into the ring he was being
dragged out of it, like the Christmas duck returning
from the axe-block in the back yard. It was a
pathetic comedy in three biffs, or a comic tragedy
in two rounds, as you like it. Both men looked in
the best of athletic condition as they faced each
other at the gong-stroke, and fairly evenly matched
in height and weight, although McVea had more
animal strength than the white man. But those
comparisons were forgotten when the business
of the evening commenced. It was clear, then, that
the alleged “Australian champion” was no more a
match for the Gaelic negro than is W. H. Wood,
M.L.A., for Speaker Willis. In his spar with Lester,
McVea practically used his left hand only; in his
fight with Lang he appeared as a two-handed
walloper of the deepest dye. Lang, however,
although dusted like a carpet for the first two
minutes, retained his composure until Ham’s relative
made a mishit. Then the comedy commenced. Bill,
taking advantage of McVea’s mistake, crowded after
him without giving him time to recover his position,
and did his best to make the coon wish he was back
with the old folks at home. It was a miserable,
laughable best, but it pleased the crowd mightily,
and Bill not a little. The four or five thousand
Christian brethren round the ring exhorted William
to go in and do his very worst, and William did
by plugging Samuel between wind and weather.
The round ended without much more damage to
either party. Nevertheless, that rally was in reality
the end of the fight, for it deceived the Australian
into the belief that if he forced the pace he would
have a better chance than he would by standing off
and being chipped to pieces. Next round, therefore,
he waded in with a cwt. of determination and a dwt.
of intelligence; and while he was dabbling his arms
in the atmosphere, McVea swiped him an almighty
swipe on the jaw, and Billiam went to the canvas
backwards, and with great suddenness. He stayed
there for nine seconds, and rose apparently only for
the sake of appearances. McVea took a long sighter
at him, and landed both hands in the exact spots
he had determined upon. Down went the white man
again. He rose, only to be dropped by our
respected colored brother like a rotten log. The
time-keeper had gone, and the man was waiting to
put out the lights when the “champion of Australia”
recovered.
This fight with McVea was Lang’s last chance to
redeem his badly-scratched reputation; and it is a
matter of national sadness that he should have
made such a sorry exhibition. It’s enough to make
one weep. And especially when one thinks of the
fighters Australia used to produce. But consider
the champions of the latter days: Billy McColl, Bill
Squires, Bill Lang! A sorry procession, indeed.
And why has Australia fallen from the high estate
in Pugdom as the breeder of mighty champions? The
men are as strong, as big, and as plucky as ever.
And yet the continent is unable to produce a white
man able to out-point or out-slog a Yankee negro.
There’s some reason for it, and the only one that
seems to hold common sense is that, in Yankeedom,
the rising “hope” has the chance of getting good
tuition. There are men there whose business it is to
make champions; and they make them. If the
boxing supremacy is worth having, there is only one
way to get it. Somebody with more money than
he knows what to do with will have to arrange for a
supply of pug-making experts to be scattered over the
land, to teach the young idea how to biff, and how
to be biffed without going to sleep. Will nobody
arise and save the country ?
Mehegan’s fight with Hock Keys, at Syd-
ney, was his 55th appearance in the ring since
September, 1905, when he beat Tim Healy at Mel-
bourne. Of those 55 contests, he has won 44, drawn
two and lost nine. One of the defeats was handed
him by Keys in November, 1907, at Melbourne.
Johnny Summers is the only man who has knocked
Australia’s light-weight champion out.
Rill Walsh (Melb.). list. 61b., met Bill
Rudd (Syd.), list. 41b., in the Melbourne Athletic
Club’s d*op6t the other evening, and a fine, spectacular
scrap resulted. Rudd got to it with the greatest
heartiness, and during two rounds made the Mel-
bournian look something like the emu that has in-
advertently swallowed a hot nut, and is trying to
duck the consequences. He painted signs of trouble
all over Walsh in that brief space; but Walsh is a
lad who was suckled on punching, and weaned with
a maul. He kept at his enemy, and in the third re-
torted in kind, with such result that thereafter the
Sydneyite was a slower and less venturesome foe.
It was such a ding-dong fight for 10 minutes that
a let-up was inevitable. After the sixth Walsh began
to forget the pasting he had received, much to
Rudd’s disgust. The Sydneysider was trying to
finish it, but Walsh took the job off his hands, and
in the seventh socked him a right, from which he did
not recover till the 10 second;! check had gone home.
Last. Friday night’s battle at the Guild
Hall (Melb.) served to dispose of a local “rising
hope” for the time being. Smart little Billy Robert-
son, of Ballarat, fresh from remarkable amateur
triumphs, and with a record of 20 wins and never a
miss, went forth against Jimmy Hill, of Sydney.
The State featherweight championship was at stake,
and the lads made it an earnest, aggressive and skil-
ful mill. The Sydney boy got away with better pace
and nicer judgment. For eight rounds he was on
top. The ninth was Robertson’s ; he put in his hot,
hard, following right with effect time after time.
Hill was too cute not to tumble to this punch, how-
ever. He kept himself well inside it for the rest of
the fight, scoring with good, close work, and was
easily top pointsman when the distance was
The third round of Sydney First Grade
cricket ended, as it began, in a victory for the
bowlers. Only one man (Macartney, of Gordon),
crossed the century line, and he scored 112 and car-
ried his bat. It was Mac’s day out. And he piled
up his very pretty little pile in 71 minutes, too!
The next best score was the 84 R. V. Minnett (N.
Sydney) acumulated in 110 minutes, against the
bowlers of Burwood. Scott, of Petersham, collected
78 in 65 minutes, against Gordon ; and E. P. Barbour
made 73 in 50 minutes for University, against
Waverley. S. E. Gregory’s 66, made for Waverley
against University, was also good. But for pretty
figures, turn to the bowling: W. Dowd, of Padding-
ton, butchered four Middle Harbor wickets for 24
runs; J. A. Massie, of Uni., smashed up six Waver-
ley sticks for 44; 0. Asher, of Sydney, ruined five
Balmaniacs for 45, and was well backed by his club
mate, Firmeran, who took four for 52.
Several of the matches had close finishes, but
that of North Sydney and Burwood came mighty
close to being a draw. As it was, North struggled
out with a margin of three on the first innings, the
figures being 185 and 182. All the matches were
won on the first innings. University’s wrn over
Waverley was also close, but still wide enough to
suggest superiority, the figures being 212—184, and
the margin 28. Central Cumberland’s defeat of
Glebe, though more decisive —219 to 163, 56 to the
good—was nothing to take to drink over. Padding-
ton had some excuse for looking on the beer when
it is yellow underneath and white on top, for it
smothered Middle Harbor by 264 to 123. Judging
by its score, Middle Harbor mistook the game, and
thought it was playing poker.. Sydney made a
wretched showing against Balmain, making only 56
to Balmain’s 117. Both scores were miserable, and
a defeat by 61 on such figures is a positive disgrace.
The match of the round was that between Petersham
and Gordon. Peter, having declared with nine wic-
kets down for 265, got Gordon out for 135, thus
winning by 130. #
There is joy in Heaven over the Sydney
First Grade batting averages. Barring Syd Gregory
(who has developed a fresh youth), the eight bats-
men at the top of the list are colts. Pride of place
is held by R. V. Minnett, with 149£ per innings,
Folkard (H3i), Gregory (81) and Barbour (80).
Barbour also holds the best aggregate tally (3J3)-
The eight leading bowlers are all youthful, and
clamoring on the selection committee’s doormat with
all the clamorousness of young life. The committee
seems impressed, judging by the way it crowded the
colts into the inter-State team, to meet Queensland
this week-end. Anyhow, it’s always pleasing to see
the rising generation coming on. It works so hard.
On second thoughts, it is not always pleasing to see
the rising generation coming on. After all, we old
ones deserve some consideration.
On Saturday the first inter-State cricket
match of the season will be going, on the Adelaide
Oval, with the English XI arriving to look on, and
play the home team next. Vic. has lost Hazlitt, but
gained the Rhodes scholar, Seitz, back from Oxford.
The side, as selected, is: Armstrong, Ransford, Oar-
keek, Seitz, Matthews, Wame, Kortlang, D. Smith,
Kyle, Brown, Laver and Parsons. South Aus. starts
heavily handicapped by the absence of Dolling
(exams.) and Gehrs and Rees (business claims).
On the other hand, Kirkwood, an all-rounder of the
past, has returned from Westralia, and gets a place.
Webster, late of Central Cumberland, Sydney, is
chosen as wicketkeeper. The State XII. is: demand
Solly Hill, Crawford, Mayne, Whitty, Webster, Kirk-
wood, Chamberlain, Stirling, Hewer, Wright and
Down. _ ,
» » * *
Henley-on-Melbourne’s-murky-Yarra is im-
proving every year, from the oarsmen’s point of
view In fact, now that a clear course is kept,
Henley is a Regatta. On Saturday a record number
of crews disturbed the river between Richmond
Rowing Club’s shed and the dead finish. This
latter is now so placed that boats miss the bend,
which formerly gave the south-side crew an advan-
tage. The narrowness of the river, though it pro-
hibits more than three crews racing at a time, is an
advantage, inasmuch as no rough water is ever en-
countered. The improved Henley, it seems, will
presently develop into a two-days’ affair, when the
heats will be paddled off on a Friday, and the finals
on the Saturday afternoon. This year the Tas-
manians were in strong force, with Sandy Bay,
North Eslc and Mersey. The Challenge Cup for
eights fell to Albert Park, which had a hard tussle
in winning its heat with ’Varsity. In the final,
Parks met Mercantiles, their old opponents, and
managed to get their nose home by a yard or so.
Banks and Mercs have adopted the swivel rowlock,
but Parks proved the old-fashioned outrigger to be
all right, if the boys in the boat are good enough.
If there is an advantage in the swivel, Charlie and
Jim Donald would have got wise to it quick enough.
St Peter’s (Adelaide) settled Melbourne Grammar
in the final of the Ladies’ Challenge Cup for school
crews. In the sculls, the silver-haired tooth-doctor,
Horace Stevens, upheld his reputation as the best
hereabouts on the water. All oarsmen registered
with the V.R.A. get tickets for the glorified mud-
barge reserve, and the clubs usually receive a divi-
dend from the ’Enley committee. This year the
receipts are said to have beaten the record by £4OO,
so there is reason to hope that an Australian crew
will be financed to the Olympic Games next year.
* * * *
A youngster named Hill, playing in Pad-
dington (Syd.) Third Grade recently, placed a new
record for his division on the wall of his club, by
scoring a double century—ll 4 and 112. It was a
fine performance, and, as Paddington First Grade
seems to be in need of brightening up, it might be
worth while promoting this youth.
Amateur athletes had a mighty blow-out
at Sydney Sports Ground last Saturday, and ran
through seven championships and 17 handicaps in one
afternoon. It was a more or less brilliant affair,
but the gem was the hop, step and jump of Denis
Lane; 46ft. 2in. being the distance cleared by that
son of Hibernia. It was a good performance, and
broke the Australian record by 7in.
* * * *
Sydney Yachtsman Marks has again won
the Gascoigne Cup, this time with Culwulla 111.
But, although he has won it three times, he does not
appropriate the utensil, as the stringent conditions
require that it shall be won three times in succession
by the same owner with the same yacht. Away back
in 1906 Mr. Marks scored his first win with Cul-
wulla 1., but it was no good to him, for it was- not
till 1909 that he won again, and that time it was
the second Culwulla that did the trick. So now he
has made a fresh start with Culwalla 111. He cer-
tainly deserves to eventually get the drinking vessel,
One way and another he seems to have established a
moral mortgage over it —that is, if any mortgage
can be moral.
N.S.W. Cyclists’ Union rang down the
curtain on the season’s road racing on Saturday last.
The closing scene was “The Speedwell,” a 50-mile
event, that happens annually over the Parramatta-
Ivingswood-Windsor triangle. The field numbered 90,
and over 50 had returned to Parramatta before the
officials left their posts, and failed to find the way
to the pub where they had ordered dinner. The
road was in good condition, and the motor-bike sec-
tion patrolled the whole course, to see that all things
were decent and in order. In fact, it was one of the
best supervised contests ever held. As for the con-
test itself, there wasn’t much in it. F. J. Porter
(15min.) went to the front about 15 miles from
home, and poured out a scoot that left Cutliffe and
Edworthy quite bewildered. The latter two filled
second and third places in that order, and Cutliffe
secured the fastest time, running through in 2hr.
45min. 7sec. This deed of merit, on top of his
recent winning of the 10-mile championship at
Brisbane, suggests that the Redfern flier is a flier
out of the common.
* * * *
The smashing of A. 11. Collins, erstwhile
winner of the 1911 Warrnambool, was somewhat in-
teresting. Boiled down and summed up, the allega-
tion against Collins was that he did wickedly, un-
fairly, and nefariously, and of evil design, seize, lay
hold upon, and grab the back of Lessing’s saddle,
whereby he destroyed Lessing’s chances, without
helping his own very much. Collins, very naturally,
denied that he had done anything of the sort,
and pointed out that, although it was said
to have been done right under the noses of
the officials, not one of them saw anything
of it, and outside evidence was always open
to suspicion. But the evidence was emphatic, and
the stewards blew Collins out. Collins promptly-
appealed to the League of Victorian Wheelmen, and
when that august body sat on the case, it requested
Messrs. Pathe Freres to give a private display of its
film of the closing scene, and run it through slowly
—very slowly. This was done, and when the League
committee had gazed steadfastly upon the pictures,
the members thereof arose and heaved the Collins
appeal to limbo. This is the second time the cinem.
has burst up the hopes of the sportsman who went
in on the win-honestly-if-possible-but-win racket.
The other case was when Battling Nelson fouled
Cans in the fight at Denver. Nobody saw the foul
blow struck, and Nelson denied that any such blow
had been struck. Doctors swore that Gans was in-
jured. Nelson swore he did not injure him. And
then the pictures were printed, and run slowly
through the machine, and blew Nelson right out.
The cinem. is a powerful witness for the prosecution.
Collins’s break was the second thing of its
kind in the Warrnambool series. The last case was
away back in 1897, when the man who got home
first managed it by taking a short cut across country
at Little River, about 32 miles from Melbourne. He
picked up the road in front of the leading bunch in
a neat, business-like manner, without being seen, and
scooted in an easy winner. The amazement of the
leading bunchers was a sight to be remembered; and
they howled loudly that some trick had been put
up. Not a soul could remember him having passed,
and when the astute young man was asked to say
where he passed the leaders, his replies were uncon-
vincing. Had he not been so proud of his exploit,
he would probably have bluffed through; but he had
to tell somebody or burst —and so he told, and was
busted.
Tlie result of J. A. Farr’s motor-bike ride
from Sydney to Melbourne in 48hr. 40min. has been
to somewhat enhance the dignity of the human hind-
leg. His actual riding time was 36hr. for the 575
miles, equal to a shade less than 16 miles per hour.
The remarkable part of the business is that his full
time is only some 20min. better than that put up by
E. A. Pearson on his hoof-propelled bike; and his
actual riding time is more than that occupied by
the foot riders in the 1909 Dunlop relay event. The
relay riders delivered the despatch in 34hr. 39min.
It may seem unfair to compare relay riders on foot
bicycles with a lonely motor-bikist, slithering over
575 miles straightaway, more or less, on his lone-
some ; but the comparison of Farr with Pearson is
perfectly fair. The interesting application of the
matter is to the Adelaide-Sydney relay despatch ride,
organised by the Dunlop co. In this event-to-be, the
motor-bike men have been ordered to give the foot
cyclists a handicap of 24 hours, equal, roughly, to
360 miles in a 1149 miles run. And on Farr s show-
ing they can’t do it and retain a possibility of win-
ning. Of course, the question that arises is just
this: Is the motor-bike a failure compared to the
boot-driven contraption, or is Farr a failure?
Farr himself evidently felt that his per-
formance was far from being anything to write home
about, for he promptly announced that he would ride
back to Sydney, and make an attempt to reduce his
own figures for the distance. He met with a good
deal of unexpected difficulty on his run from Sydney
to Melbourne, and learned a lot of things during
the trip. Also, he had a feeling that the luck was
against him. So he drew up a new time-table, by
which he would leave Melbourne at 2 a.in. Monday
morning, and running through in 20hr. 50min., arrive
in Sydney at 7.50 a.m. on Tuesday morning. Such
a swinging reduction suggests that the gentleman
had a very bad opinion of his first attempt.
Adelaide (S.A?) cricket *reeked with big
scores on Saturday. Hack, who carried his bat,
topped the list with 120. Gelirs built up the large
pyramid of 111, Crawford 110 and Kirkwood 101.
Which is good news, considering the close proximity
of Warner and his merry men. It is a matter ot
regret, however, that the useful Gehrs will not be
available for the matches against England and Vic-
toria. S.A. will feel his absence.


THE
•Si
■
m
4
I
f
STYLE 1516
BOGO
MADE IN
AUSTRALIA
DANGO
PATENT
Other Manufacturers can duplicate the PRICES
but not the VALUES.
WE STAND BACK OF EVERY PAIR WE MAKE.
MARSHALL SHOE CO,, RICHMOND, vic.
"KEEP THE QUALITY UP,”
MELBOURNE.
SYDNEY. ADELAIDE.
BRISBANE;
00
o
DOUBLE
Old
Orkney whisky
I
;
ENO S ‘FRUIT SALT’
’ A HOUSEHOLD REMEDY FOR
All Functional Derangements of the Liver, Tempo-
rary Congestion arising from Alcoholic Beverages,
; Errors in Diet (Eating or Drinking), Biliousness,
} Sick Headache, Giddiness, Vomiting, Heartburn,
( Sourness of the Stomach, or Constipation. It is
a Refreshing and Invigorating Beverage, most
I Invaluable to Travellers, Emigrants, Sailors, and
I Residents in Tropical Climates.
1 Eno’S 'Fecit Salt’ assists the Functions of the Liver, Bowels. Skin, and Kidneys
t by Natural Means. There is no doubt that, where it has been taken in the earliest
l stages of a disease, it has, in innumerable instances, preventeu a serious illness.
] CAUTlON.— Examine the Capsule and see that it is marked UNO'S 'FRUIT SALT,’
otherwise you have the sincerest form of fIattery—IMITATION.
1 Prepared only by J. C. ENO. Ltd., ‘ FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS, London,
1 S.E., Eng., by J. C. ENO'S Patent.
Sold by Chemists and Stores everywhere.
the: name: rigne:y
r
on a shoe is a guarantee of correct style,
expert workmanship, high grade appear-
ance, and honest value.
The Shoe illustrated is a Choice Tan
Russia Calf Oxford Shoe, very neat, ser-
viceable and dressy.
Price 25/- Postage 9d. extra.
Send for a Copy of our Catalogue.
The Rigney Shoe Co.,
“The Men’s Exclusive High-
Grade Shoe Stores,”
305 George St., Sydney,
and 179 a Pitt St., Sydney.
Please note that the new shop in Pitt Street is under the personal management of Air. P. C Rigney,
the sole and only proprietor of the above firm.
HESS°PH°NE
THE
Natural Talking
Machines.
From £3 to £27/10/-
FAVORITE
RECORDS
DOUBLE-
S I OED
3/-
each.
3/-
each.
Needles 9d., 1/-, 1/3,1/6 per box.
PATHE ATTACHMENTS.
Sound Boxes ... 17/6 each
Sapphires ... 2/6 „
CATALOGUES ON APPLICATION.
Write to us or our Agents—
J. HESS & CO.,
199 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Make
your
_ own
Cigareftei
twice
as good
!AG
\ CIGARETTE
' PAPER
and V\y^LST
IF NOT PROCURABLE AT YOUR
TOBACCONIST APPLY TO THE AGENTS
Jacobs Bros. L** 255* George SE Sydney
h
You get more Fuel Miles
out of
SHELL
than out of any other Motor Spirit.
THAT'S WHERE ITS PER-
FECT PURITY SAVES YOU
MONEY.
jk
A I R-G AS
LIGHTING.
BRANDTS’ ATMOS-
LITE is noted for its
superior quality o f
light, its strength,
durability and safety,
and its low cost of
operation. Atmoslite,
Gas consists of 98%
air, only 2% petrol.
Cost: Id. per hour for
5-50 C.P. lights. 0
sizes stocked. Bettefci
send for literature. *
Brandt Bros., Ltd.
LAMPHOUSE,
236 Pitt St., Sydney.
Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
ASTHMA CURE
ERmULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Coughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by G 1! IMA ULT & Co’s INDIAN CIGAR;
E'l TES. fin d by all Chrmists .
JUST OUT. Price, 12/6 Posted, 13;.
DROVERS’ GUIDE
By P. R. GORDON,
Late Chief Inspector of Stock ana Brands, Queensland
Containing the latest Stock Route Maps of New South
Wales and Queensland, the new Queensland Maps
containing Stock Routes, Tanks and Dams, Main Roads,
Border Crossing Places, Bores, Trucking Yards; etc.
WATSON, FERGUSON & Co. Ltd. BRISBANE
Piles Quickly Cured %
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS.
The cause of Piles is centred in the system, and not on its surface, hence Jfre absurdity of
endeavoring to dispel them by outward applications such as ointments, etc. These at most only
give temporary relief, but oftentimes serve to aggravate the trouble.
You should try Murphy’s Pile Pills. They give immediate relief, and are undoubtedly the
greatest, because the surest, remedy ever offered for Piles.
They are non-aperient, perfectly harmless, and equally effective in either recent or long-
standing cases of internal or external Piles. Full directions and testimonials supplied with
every box. For sale at all leading chemists and storekeepers, or may be ordered direct from the
proprietors. Price, 3/- per box, post free.
SOLE PROPRIETORS:
ANDREW MURPHY, LTD.,
Department 8.,
109 Regent St., Sydney.
IGHT-Hour Demonstration, 1911
ART UNION. Result of Drawing.
We, the undersigned, hereby certify that we have this day witnessed the drawing of the above
Art Union, and declare the same has been conducted
fairness (Signed)
J. MAHONY, “Worker.”
V. DOWNEY. “Sunday Times.”
G. A. KENNEDY, “Sun.”
The Prizes will be paid over to the winners on FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 3, at 10 a.m., at the Trade*
Hall. Goulburn Street, Sydney. ae "
Trades llall, Sydney, October 2S, 1911. JOHN W. DOYLE, Secretary,
proper manner, and with absolute
DAVID YOUNG, Sen. Constable.
JOHN HEPHER. M.L.C.
JOHN TRAVERS, M.L.C.


m A. SAUNDERS’ TOILET-SILVER «
A. SAUNDERS.
Crocodile Leather MOTOR BAG, High-class
Lining, Good Quality Frames,
10/6 '
A. SAUNDEUS.
COLLAR STUD BOX, Pierced Design,
Pure Silver-plated,
7/6.
iSS
1
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Solid Silver Embossed CARD
CASE, in Silk-lined Case, Size 4x3 inches.
30/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Real Mother-o’-Pearl TRINKET STAND
or ASII TRAY, Ebony Base, Solid Silver-
mounted,
4/6-
A. SAUNDERS.
FRENOII BRIAR PIPE, Pure Silver
Mounts and Screw; straight or bent Amber
Stem, ’ Case,
12/6
m
- V'
A. SAUNDERS.
SHAVING TIDY, Pure Silver-plated Mounts,
5/6
BEAUTIFUL GIFTS That Would Please Immensely.
ORDER BY MAIL ’Tis Easy And so Satisfactory.
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s HAIR BRUSH,
Solid Silver-mounted,
Handsomely Embossed,
Fine White Bristles,
7/6.
A. SAUNDERS
SEWING COMPANION,
Solid Silver-mounted, com-
prises 4 Articles and 2 Set
of Needles,
12/6
A. SAUNDERS.
Plush HANDKERCHIEF Box.
Pme Silver-plated Mounts,
4/6-
Glove Bjx to Match, 5/0.
UT-
A. SAUNDERS.
Antique Design Solid Silver
plain fluted CABINET PHOTO
FRAME, highly burnished,
7/6
A. SAUNDERS.
BIRTHDAY BOOK, Pure Si
ver-Mounted., Cherub Desigi
Full Size,
A. SAUNDERS.
LADY’S TOILET SET, Solid Silver-Mounted,
Handsomely Embossed, comprising 2 full-sized
Hair Brushes, Comb, and Hand Miror, in Silk-lined
Case with double catches,
£5/5A
SOLTD
SILVER.
12/6
ķhj
SOLID
SILVER
12/6
WE PAY
POSTAGE
ON ALL
THESE
GOODS.
LET US
SEND
YOU
OUR
BEAUTI-
FUL
FREE
0 Vf A-
I.OGUES.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver MIRROR,, Grape and Cherub Design.
British Plate Glass, bevelled, size x 5 inches.
12/6
A. SAUNDERS.
JEWEL CASKET, Pure Silver-plated, Plain and
Embossed Design, Silk-lined. Size sin x sin.
£2/.
HI
m
Its
A. SAUNDERS.
MANICURE SET, Solid Silver-Mounted, Beautifully
Embossed, comprising 9 articles, in Silk-lined
Morocco Case,
35/
A. SAUNDERS.
SCENT PUMP, Solid
Silver, Embossed or
Plain Mounts, Fancy
Cut Glass,
15/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
HAT or CLOTHES
BRUSH, Pure Silver,
Large Size, Embossed
Design, Long White
Bristles, S/6-
A. SAUNDERS.
TOILET POMADE
BOX Fine Diamond
Cut Glass, Solid. Sil-
ver Top; height,
2J inches,
8/6
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Solid Silver
CARD CASE, Richly
Embossed, 10/6-
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver Moun-
ted COMB, Embos-
sed Design, Full
Size,
5/6
A. SAUNDERS.
BACK COMB, Oct Gold, Scoll Mount,
IT/6
o m
A. SAUNDERS.
ENT.’S HAIR BRUSH, Solid
ilver, nicely Embossed; fine
White Bristles,
8/6
WE HAVE
CATALOGUE
OF
BOTH
DEPART-
MENTS.
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Solid Silver PURSE and CARD CASE,
Handsomely Embossed, Extension Inner Frames,
£3/10/-
KINDLY
MENTION
WHICH IS
REQUIRED
WHEN
WRITING.
935
WKIWI
maazanuizir- mm - r 7 ■■*■, vvT y t W'
: W .TTTr..rTT w.w.y^ft- ggjS
A. SAUNDERS.
GENT.’S CARD CASE, Solid Silver, Hand-
Engraved, with lid, 15/6-
Without Lid, 12/6.
H
m
A. SAUNDERS.
SHOE LIFT and HOOK, Solid Silver, 7in long,
nicely Embossed, in Silk-lined Case,
7/6-
F
1
SJvBSr
A. SAUNDERS.
Handsomely Engraved Solild Silver CIGAR CASE,
to hold 3 cigars,
•50/- -
JE
k^tJCHsC/OQ- j
'ik MAKER Iff
\r,
V
SYDNEY'S LEADING JEWELLER?
807,809,811,813.815,817, GEORGE ST. (Qpposite Railway Station) SYPNEV.N.S.W.
!> SILVERSMITH


V
NS**
. ■'
m
Austral Standard Plate
Competition closes
December 30, 1911.
The Austral Dry Plate Prize Competition is now drawing to a close.
Ihe last day for the receipt of entries is December 30, and all intending
competitors should make a note of it.
Pheret are classes for amateur and junior photographers, as well as for studio
and outdoor photographers. Fifty-four prizes are to be awarded, ranmno- in value
from to 1 os. each, and everybody using Austral Standard Dry Plates is
eligible to compete.
Conditions of the Competition, etc., are obtainable from all Kodak dealers,
or direct from any of our branches.
KODAK LTD
Incorporating: Baker & Rouse Prop. Ltd
(Sole Agents for THE GAUMONT CO., LTD., Cinematograph Experts),
379 George St., Sydney.
Ruthven St., Toowoomba.
“ The Block,” 284 Collins St., Melbourne. 37 Rundle St., Adelaide. 78=80 Queen St., Brisbane.
Flinders St., Townsville. 346 Argent St., Broken Hill. 6 Mercer St., Wellington, N.Z.
■'SrJ
“S
r~‘
y
K
Alcock Billiard
Tables excel.
Consult any competent judge of billiard tables, and he’ll
promptly tell you that there are no tables equal to “ Alcock’s.”
Many of the leading billiard matches have been played on
• these tables—the Melbourne match between George Gray
and Fred Lindrum, jun., when Gray scored 836, 831 coining
off the red, is another proof of the marvellous accuracy and
perfect construction of our billiard tables.
Each table is fitted with Imperial Low Cushions, and
bears our trade mark.
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.
ALCOCK & GO, Pty. Ltd,
Billiard Table Manufacturers,
397 George St., Sydney. \l4 Edward St., Brisbane. Bake? Buildings,
Featherstone St., Wellington. 155 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
7 King William St., Adelaide. Murray St., Perth.
[5
Caliber Cartridges jj
tNCHtST,
The Red W Brand
Winchester Cartridges and Winchester
Rifles are made in the same factory and
tested together. Hence the best results
are always obtained when they are used
with each other. Moreover, the knowl-
edge obtained in the manufacture of
firearms, gives the Winchester Com-
pany an advantage in making cartridges
for all kinds of rifles, as they know
their requirements. Winchester .225,
both black and smokeless, are made
in all sizes of this caliber and will
surely give the best results in yor.r
rifle. The smokeless cartridges o e
loaded with Greaseless Bullets, which
do not soil the hands or clothing.
FOR SALE BY ALL DEALERS
f
ƒ


fj
Turn
This
Button.
Pen
Fills
Itself.
kj
1]
A Self-Filling Fountain
Pen —that is Different.
Users of Fountain Pens
will find the
“MODERN”
AUTOMATIC
Self-Filling
Fountain Pen
especially desirable for com-
mercial or home use. You
simply twist the button at
the end, hold pen in ink,
untwist, and the pen fills
itself. There are no joints,
therefore avoiding any
danger of soiling the fin-
gers or clothing. Costs
no more than the ordinary
fountain pen. Made in both
plain and fancy holders,
with a variety of nibs.
Modern Pen Company,
Sole Selling Agent for
A. A. Waterman & Co.,
New York.
22 THAMES STREET,
NEW YORK, U.S.A.
Ryan, Lewis & Co. Pty. Ltd.,
521 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, Sole Agents for
Waterman Fountain Pens.
We also manufacture a
complete line of lower end
joint and Safety types.
Dealers will find our en-
tire line a profitable one.
Write for trade prices.
They will interest you.
If it isn’t an “ A.A.” it
isn’t a “MODERN.”
During the Progress of our GREAT REMOVAL
SALE we arc offering the following
Usual Price. Sale Price
Double - Barrelled, Breech - loading
Guns, engine-turned rib, left bar-
rel full choke, right modified, re-
bounding locks and pistol grip.
Trial £5 2 6 £.112 6
Single-Barrel Duck Guns, large bore,
to kill at 100yds. Trial .. ..8 5 0 510 0
Single-Barrel, Hanunerless, Breech-
loading Guns,choke bore, excellent
stock. Trial 3 10 0 1 17 6
Double - Barrelled, Breech - loading
Guns with Greener patent wedge
fast cross bolt, choke bore, walnut
stock, pistol grip, patent cartridge
ejector. Trial 5 10 0 4 17 0
Special Pigeon Guns, with patent
sid • clips, file cut rib, top lever,
choke bore, specially selected wal-
nut stock, Greener patent wedge
fast cross bolt. Trial .. .. 10 0 0 7 10 0
Mauser Principle Rifles, 22 calibre,
kill at 300yds. Trial .. .. 15 0 13 6
Guns by All Makers in Stock.
Write for Special Sale Catalogue.
ALL ORDERS FOR GUNS AND RIFLES DE-
LIVERED CARRIAGE PAID TO ANY ADDRESS
IN AUSTRALASIA.
vSmall Arms Co.
Gunsmiths & Importers.
24-2-244 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE
{''Ringing for More!*}
M
A
Bird’s
Custard
stands alone in its absolute
purity, delicious flavor and
rich, egg like creaminess.
Mas stood the test of time
L Over 70 years * success,
Increase your Reserve of
Vital Energy by taking
EVREN
NERVE and BRAIN
TABLETS
THE TRUE NERVE AND
BRAIN REMEDY.
Highly beneficial in all cases of Phy-
sical Exhaustion, Female Ailments,
Brain Fag, Persistent Headache,
Anaemia, Sleeplessness, Nervous
Dyspepsia, Loss of Appetite, and
that run-down feeling arising from
Overwork or Worry.
All Chemists and Stores.
Price, 21- per Box.
Elliott Bros., Ltd., Sydney & Brisbane
Wholesale Distributors for Australia.
Oxleyne,
Beauty’s Favorite
Skin Food.
Beautifies and Preserves
the Complexion, Removes
Wrinkles, Sallowness and
all Blemishes, making the
Skin Transparent and
White.
ALL CHEMISTS,
3/6 and 6/6 pot.
OXLEYNE
FACE POWDER,
THREE SHADES,
1/6, 3/- box.
FOR SPECIAL FACE AND NECK
TREATMENT CONSULT
\
X\
OXLEY fIANNERS,
Equitable Buildings,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
ĵ
PETER PEN KNOWS THOUSANDS
WHO USE THE ONOTO PEN
“ But I am still looking for the men, women and children
who have writing to do—and do it without the Onoto Pen,
“ What a pen to have—the pen that doesn’t leak.
“It does not splutter, blot or scratch.
“It fills itself in a flash. Fancy that —no filler —no squirt. It fills
alone—a pen on its own.
“ I could say much more. But when it’s summed up Peter Pen’s
speech is ‘ Get a British-made
Price 12/- and upwards af all
stationers, jewellers and stores.
Booklet about it free from Thos
De La Rue & Co., Ltd., 167,
Bunhill Row, London, E.C., or
the Australasian Representative,
Norman Baker, 50 York-st,, Svdnty
Important.— For those who require a larger pen, with a very flexible
mb, a special model—the new “G ” has been put on the market. Try this
new G” at your stationers.
note
Self-FilUng - -
Safety Fountain
Pen
Also ask for Onoto Ink
—the best for fountain
and all other pens.
CASTRATION—EASY'
Oar Emaseulator combines the best American Ideas with
Reliable English Manufacture.
It is the Best Instrument for Castrating Stallions, Colts, Bulls,
etc.
Sharpe’s Perfect Emaseulator
Crushes before it Cleanly Cuts, making
Hemorrhage Impossible.
RAPID SAFE MERCIFUL.
Has just the proper power, and being made of best
Sherrield Steel will give perfect satisfaction for
many years.
UNEASY TO USE.
hlfĵl
FREE
POST 40/~
ANYWHERE.
Satisfaction or Money Back.
Write for Knife and Vet. List.
SHARPE & SHARPE
' 18 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
eyft&lMcm
OTHER MODELS
From 7/6 to 40/-
The Accordeoti with 1
The Mellow Tone
Is just perfection for Song Accompaniments, Dance Music, and
Picnics. The Organ-like Tone of these Instruments is attained
by the use of Bell Metal Reeds, which are hand-fitted and tuned.
THREE POPULAR MODELS.
THE ORGAN TONED MELBA
8 Sets Bell Metal Reeds, Price 22/6, Post Free.
THE DANCE KING
4 Sets Bell Metal Reeds, Price 30/-, Post Free.
THE PICNIC MODEL
2 Sets Bell Metal Reeds, Price 16/*, Post Free.
FOR A FREE CATALOGUE WRITE TO
ALLAN & Co.,
276 Collins Street, Melbourne,
And also at BENDIGO A GEELONG.
Plfi=!LS
For BILIOUSNESS O'INDIGESTION
CONSTIPATION CONQUERED.
There lies the vital secret where so many diseases and ailments are
concerned Constipation must be conquered, or normal organic action,
freedom from liver and kidney troubles, and from stomach and bowel
disorders, is not possible.
. C° c kl e s s conc l u er Constipation of the most stubbornly aggressive
kind because they strengthen and stimulate and revivify the organs,
mu' 01 u cleanse and regulate with such consummate ease and efficiency.
The whole system is freed from the wholesale disturbance due to the con-
stipated tendency, from blood impurities, from effete matter, from lurking
isease. Yet Cockle’s Pills act so gently and pleasingly that the most
delicate persons like them.
w.
QIVEN AWAY.
To Advertise
our
OSTRICH
TIPS.
O/A the Bunch
u post free.
Three Black Tips,
or Black Tipped
with White.
Write to-day. Send
Postal Notes.
Catalogues Free.
Miller’s Feather Shop,
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY ; also at
Corner of Bourke and Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention The Bulletin.] [8
Millars’ Karri S Jarrah
Co. (1902), ltd.
We Supply—
JARRAH Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’ Scant-
ling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.O.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN'S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIO.
68£ PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Brunches in all parts of the world.
FOR ALL
BLOOD DISORDERS
imi
Packets, 3d., 6d. and Is
f2A
h
Big G
Borated Goldenseal
Compound
A safe and simple remedy for
Bronchitis, Catarrh, Hay Fever
Inflammations, Irritations, nicer*
atlons of ALL mucous membranes
or linings of the nose, throat,
stomach or urinary organs.
AT CHEMISTS
Why not cure yourself
v Treatise with jach bottle
or mailed on request.
k Hie Evans Chemical Co.
Chrinnali, Ohio,
U.S.A.
TWUCHETS
' DIURETIC y
KIDM&MDBK
REMEDY
A CORRECTIVE
OF the:
URINARY
ORGANS
l
IT IS
ALSO A
SPLENDID
TO/NIC
Obr&mah/e e?// Cfipm/sAs
' “ CLARTON,HODGSON & C? L?? *
So/e Aus/ra/as/e# Agents. 73 YORK ST.SYDNEY
RHEUMATISM
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY.
GOUT, RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA, LUMBAGO,
NEURALGIA.
Blair’s
GOUT AND
RHEUMATIC
They iJeuer Fail.
They Always Cure.
¥)| 11 £
A llld
The only true and safe remedy for Gout and
Rheumatism that has stood the test of time
All Chemists and Stores at i/i J & 2/9 per box
Proprietors, PROUT & Co., 229. Strand,
London, England
h
Well, of course
Anything worth doing is
worth doing well —so for
the antiseptic cleansing your
teeth need every day, use
CALVERT’S
Carbolic Tooth Powder
Loral Chemists and Stores sell it.
F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester, Eng.


Get What You Want
When You Want it
m
%
%
m
Do not Wait for
the Travelling
Thresher Gang
Don't miss the market with your wheat.
Don't have to do your wheat carting when the roads are had.
Don't pay away a big chunk of your year's profits in fancy prices
for threshers.
You don't have to do any of these unpleasant things.
You can get a “Sterling" Thresher and “1.H.C." Engine, and avoid
them all.
Capacity approximately 25 bushels of wheat or 50 bushels of oats
per hour.
Enables you to thresh 3,000 bushel crop of wheat in two weeks,
and at just such a time as it suits you.
You will be surprised at the low price we charge , and the easy
terms we offer.
It's a positive fact, and we will prove it to your satisfaction it
you'll let us do so, that the money you would otherwise pay to the
ihresherman will buy this outfit for you.
When it's paid for, you'll still have a good engine and a good
thresher to “show for it."
If you keep on with the thresher gang you'll have the receipts to
show for the money you have spent. Which is best for you?
Must have your order early or you are certain to be disappointed.
Now is the best time to begin the saving.
WeTeceive letters addressed to any of the cities
named below.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY
OF AMERICA
200 Roma St., Brisbane .
545 Bourke St., Melbourne.
37 Broadway, Sydney.
18-20 North Terrace, Adelaide.
75 York St., Launceston.
ROBT. NETTLEFOLD, Hobart, General Agent for Southern Tasmania.
GEO. WILLS & CO., Perth, General Agents for Western Australia.
(, 338)
Important!
The " l.H.CService Bureau
gives to farmers Free Tech-
nical Advice from Eminent
Authorities on Agriculture.
Any and every Soil Tillage
or Hai vesting Problem dealt
with.
Thousands have already
benefited by its advice.
Ask for particulars.
nli/ALf i n or
Take regularly the ‘Allenburys’Diet. It is most easy of assimilation, increasing vitality
and diminishing fatigue. It restores the impaired digestion and gives tone to the whole
system. Prepared from pure, rich milk and whole wheat, combined in a partially
predigested form, the ‘Allenburys’ Diet is a complete food, and is valuable alike for
the Invalid and Robust. Made in a Minute add boiling water only.
Allen & Hanburys
Ltd.
LONDON, ENGLAND, and
MARKET STREET. SYDNEY
jh
gjhl
THE LONE NANP
THE AUSTRALIAN MAGAZIN IS.
A monthly guide for everything Australian.
6d
ARE YOU
DEAF?
If you are deaf, or going deaf, you will
be glad to hear of a simple and scientific de-
vice which will restore your hearing, no mat-
ter how old you are. There is no mystery
or secrecy about it; we describe it fully and
explain just how it acts.
You use spectacles as sight magnifiers, and
in the same way you may use this sound
magnifier as an aid to weak hearing. But,
unlike spectacles, the Wilson Common-sense
Ear-Drums are invisible and comfortable.
You can’t tell you are wearing them. No
one else can, either, because they are not
seen.
They rest the ear nerves by taking the
strain off them—the strain of trying to hear
dim sounds. What a blessed relief to have
done with that tiring strain!
Being made of the purest and softest Para
rubber, they cannot be felt, even when the
head rests on a pillow. For the same reason,
a blow on the side of the head will not hurt
the ear. In fact, they protect the ear, the
tender inner parts that are so sensitive, from
cold winds, dust, sudden and piercing sounds.
So that you may clearly understand why
these facts are true, and why the Sound Mag-
nifier restores the hearing, we give an illus-
tration of one as it lies in the ear. You will
notice that the Sound Magnifier is shaped
like a trumpet, and so conveys even the
faintest sounds right to the natural ear-
drum. Being of the softest rubber, it cannot
hurt the ear. It fits the orifice of the ear
with precision and comfort. The division
that runs across the mouth is to allow the re-
moval and insertion of the Ear-Drum, and to
brace it.
The shape of the Wilson Ear-Drum has
been chosen after years of experience as the
best adapted to carry the faintest sound right
down to the natural ear-drum.
To persons who are nearly deaf, it is not
only trying to have people shout at them,
but it hurts the ear-drum. When age comes
the car-drum sometimes gets thickened, or
loses its tightness, and shouting does not act
properly on it. It only makes a confused
and tiring noise. But the Sound Magnifiers
concentrate the sound in the best spot for
perfect hearing.
Of course, if you have lost the hearing-
nerve completely, or were born deaf, we can-
not pretend to cure you. Only a miracle
could do that, in spite of some of the absurd
claims made to-day. But if you can hear the
faintest sound, do not despair. You will
never regret trying the Wilson Ear-Drums.
We have letters to show you from deaf people
in Australia and New Zealand who have been
cured, and you can be cured, too. You may
wear the Ear-Drums day and night, and take
them out whenever you wish. Children can
wear them (we have special sizes for children
from six to twelve). Even a child can insert
and remove them without the least danger.
The price is £1 (the fee for a doctor’s
single visit). This includes a pair of Drums
(they are only sold in pairs), a fine nickel
remover and also an inserter. After the first
pair is bought you may purchase a single
drum at any time for Bs., but the pair you
get at first will last quite two years. Do not
ask for a trial pair. We do not send them
out on trial, and so they are never second-
hand. Use the Order Form below, and the
Outfit will be sent to you at once, with the
fullest instructions. Don’t delay, but have
the comfort of good hearing as soon as you
can.
ORDER FORM.
STAR NOVELTY CO.,
103 Premier Buildings,
229 Collins Street, Melbourne (Vic.).
Please send me an Outfit containing a pair
of Wilson Common-sense Ear-Drums, an In-
serter and a Remover, for which I enclose
One Pound.
Name
Address
NOTE. — Send by Money Order or Postal
Note. If a Bank Note or Sovereign is sent,
you mult register it.
CANT
BEAT
)
RIAR
PIPES
ALL SHAPES
POST FREE 1/2
Quality Not Better
H ,n a
HS Guinea Pipe
#MICK SIMMONS
y SYDNEY.
storekeepers* tobacconists
SHOULD SEND FOR OUR TRADE UST
I
Superior to
INJECTIONS
CUBEBS and
COPAIBA.
Cures the same
diseases without
Inconvenience
In
48 hours |
Each Capsule bears the uane
m)


Baby Dreadful Sufferer. Could Not
Keep Him from Scratching. Every
Joint Affected. UsedCuticuraSoap
and Ointment and He Is Well,
“Enclosed find my son’s photo and I feel
by writing these few lines to you I am only
doing my duty, as my son was a dreadful
jh
sufferer from eczema. At
the age of two weeks he
began to get covered with
red spots on his legs and
groins, which mother
thought was red gum or
thrush 1 but day by day
it grew worse until every
joint and crevice were
affected and baby started
screaming for hours day
and night, such a thing
as sleep was out of the
question. I took him to
two of Sydney’s leading doctors; one said it
was one of the worst cases he had seen, the
other did not think it so serious; one ordered
ointment for rubbing in, the other a dusting
powder. I followed their prescriptions for
over four months and still baby kept getting
worse. I could not keep him from scratching
so great was his agony.
“ When he was five months old I tried the
Cuticura Remedies and I am very thankful to
say my baby is to-day free from all his suffer-
ing. His groins were bleeding when I started
and other parts affected were the lower part
of_ his body, under the knees, arms, in arm
joints, eyebrows and neck; but after twice
using Cuticura Ointment I began to see a
difference and by the time I had used one
tin, along with the bathing with Cuticura
Soap, baby was nearly cured. I still kept on
using the Cuticura Soap and Ointment, and
now, thank goodness, he is auite well and,
although he is now ten months old, has not
had any further return of the trouble.”
(Signed) Mrs. G. Martin, 2 Knight St.,
Erekineville, Sydney, N.S.W., Mar. 31, 1911.
Cuticura Soap and Ointment are sold
throughout the world, but a liberal sample ot
Cuticura Ointment, with a 32-page book on
the care and treatment of the skin and hair
will be sent free on application to R. Towns
& Co., Pent,. 12K, Svdnpv. N. S. W.
An Interesting
Experiment.
If you would like to see the alteration Grey
Hairs make, just lay a piece of paper over each of
the two halves of the above portrait. The Grey
“ half” will then be seen to have the appearance
of 45 years of age, whereas the other half looks
only 30. Dr. B. Allen's (U.S.A.) Mexican Walnut
Stain will inake all those years of difference if you
are grey or prematurely grey. It is perfectly
harmless, easy to apply, and will quickly restore
the hair to the natural shade of youth, or younger
years.
Dr. B. Allen’s <u.s.a.)
Mexican
Walnut Stain
is offered as a Superior Stain. It contains no lead,
mercury, silver, sulphur, etc., and is equally suit-
able for Raldies’ Hair, or Hair of the Beard or
Moustache. None genuine without the signature
of Alfred Ardley (Registered in the Patents
Office of the Commonwealth).
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
ĵhlj
Rat
Death
a Reliable Rat Destroyer
Prepared from formula supplied
by DR. BURNETT HAM.
Price 1 I
Wl/
per large
Tin.
Very Attractive and Always Fatal to RATS and MICE.
WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTING AGENT—
DUERDIN 8 SAINS BURY, MELBOURNE.
Before
HARE’S
COMPOUND
will grow a LUXURIANT
MOUSTACHE, and cover
Bald Patches when all else
fails.
Price, S/6 Post Free.
4©
After
London Specialities Apency,
44 CASTLEREAUH STREET, SYDNEY.
m
m
&
m
n
S
Si
231 Clarence Street. Sydney,
GLASS
mibbs cOI/TD '
AND ALL STATES
'TV
BY SPECIAL APPOINTMENT
TO MIS EXCELLENCY
fH[ Cii'EM-GEntyflL
&
:*»
1
To the woman
who wants something “different ” for breakfast to-morrow
morning—try “Skipper” Sardines on toast. Dainty in
appearance, delicious to taste, and so very, very different
from the old sorts, “Skippers” cannot fail to please.
Skipper Sardines
?ole Proprietors : ANGUS WATSON Sc Co., Newcastle-on-Tyne, Kngland.
Keep smiling—there’s always Skipper Sardines’*
Conjuring Tricks, Puzzles, Surprise S Joke Novelties
LOOK AND LAUGH GLASS
ljh
See the Passing Show.
Your friends gro-
tesquely photo-
graphed— stout people
look thin —thin people
look stout. Th e |
Laughing Camera
furnishes all this and
more. By getting a
focus on passingpedes-
trians, horses, wag-
gons, trains, trams,
etc., the most gro-
tesque and ludicrous
pictures are wit-
nessed. All grow fat from laughter. It is well and;
strongly made, and cannot get out of order. Price 1/-, |
post free anywhere.
THE U.S.A. LIQUID PISTOL.
Will
stop the
111 o s t
vicious
dog or man without
permanent injury.
Invaluable for cy-
clists, unescorted
ladies, cashiers,
night -watchmen,
homes, etc. Has more
effect on beggars and
tramps than a watch-
dog. Fires and recharges by pulling trigger. Over
20 shots in one loading. Reloading unlimited. It
creates great amusement for young and old, it is
strongly made of polished nickel, and is one of the
lrvst useful, durable, reliable and economical novel-
ties ever produced. Used with water or ammonia.
Price post free anywhere, 3/»
fj
f
ƒ
H. L. Hutchinson U d
New York Novelty Company.
710 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
Hi
I
!
, ;r
i, 1
!! lEliiiifi
111 BUN
! i
I 111
PUZZLE PURSE.
The Latest and Best Puzzle Purse on the market.
Even our most industrious puzzle enthusiasts baffled.
Three entirely different moves before purse can be
opened. It is made of superior leather, with inside
pocket, and strong 'polished nickel frame. Illustrated
directions enclosed. Price, post free anywhere, 2/=.
Do not miss this chance of obtaining one of the best
and most useful puzzles ever produced.
PUZZLE POCKET KNIVES.
f
A Puzzle Pocket
Knife is one of
the most useful
noveliies obtain-
able. Best qual-
ity steel blade,
buff horn hand-
les, spring back.
Puzzle to shut as well as to open. Makes a splendid
knife for general use, also a superior rabbiter's knife.
Price, with full directions, 2/- ; post free any-
where, or same quality in larger size, 3/2 post free.
Postal Address—BOX 3, HAYMARXHT POST OFFICE, SYDNEY. Write for Price Lists, free upon application.
Branches—lll KING STREET; 25 and 27 OXFORD STREET, SYDNEY.
ON TNEHOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound; containing’ upwards of Three hundred
of “ Hop’s ” best drawings. Full Bulletin siza
Price, 21s.
WSk
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting: Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
With her limitless potentialities, still in the process of initial development, Queensland
otters a field of unbounded scope to the investor, the scientist, the tourist, the prospective
settler and to the honest worker.
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
T. C. TROEDSON, Director.
Branch Office: 116 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W. A. MESTON, Local
ldld
l
FOOD
is for Infants and Invalids
and for those whose digestive
powers have become weakened by
illness or advancing age.
If the digestive functions, however weak, can do
any work at all they should be given work to do to the
extent of their powers. In the easy process of its prepara-
tion the digestibility of Benger’s can be regulated to give
this work with extreme nicety.
The “British Medical Journal” says—“Benger’s Food
has, by its excellence established a reputation of its own.
BENGERS FOOD. LTD., Otter Works, Manchester, England.
Benger's Food is sold in tins by Druggists , etc., everywhere
823
The S. M. Hekald, talking about some
recent big transactions in Sydney properties:
Just now there is, in fact, more money availablt
than can find an immediately profitable point oi
application. This is shown, amongst other things
by the ease with which new flotations are effected
in spite of the fact that only a proportion of then,
are likely to attain success. On the other hand
although the returns from property investment are
not high, there is good reason to have a lively faith
in their security.
Thus does the Herald turn dog on itself,
and eat its numerous solemn affidavits (1)
that Labor legislation would drive all the
capital out of the country, and (2) that pro
perty values would be quite wiped out bj
the progressive land tax.
Members of the “Liberal” tribe in the
N.S.W. Assembly are at a crossway when
the Devil waits with a horn at each corner.
All the country electorates are clamoring
for new railway lines to be built, or for old
ones to be duplicated, or for other large pub-
lic works to be started. If the sitting “Lib-
eral” lends a hand to the other mad Mullahs
who are howling round the Speaker, the
chances are that the work his constituents
are clamoring for will be one of the pro-
posed undertakings held over, as a result of
the time wasted. Which will be bad busi-
ness for the conspiring Mullah. If he
attends to his business, instead of Willising,
and is still unable to get his particular log
rolled on to the general heap of 50 or CO
others, the constituency will arise and curse
him for a loafer or an incompetent. If he
does manage to get his railway put through,
large herds of wild navvies will over-run
his district and kill his cat at the ballot
box. It is a dark and gloomy outlook, which-
ever way you look at it, and the only re-
deeming feature is that the average “Lib-
eral” doesn’t matter, anyhow.
One of the most exclusive and best-patron-
ised billiard saloons in Adelaide is situated
in Parliament House. On the door is a
large, fat notice to the effect that strangers
are not admitted “even when accompanied
by a member.” This is either to discourage
the politician whose strongest point is show-
ing ladies over the building or to save the
intruding taxpayer from the discovery that
the “tireless devotion to public duty,” which
he heard so much about, consisted mostly in
notting the red and cannoning off the cush.
There are very few occasions now when
there are not more members in the billiard
saloon than in the Chamber. Even when the
Treasurer was delivering his financial state-
ment attendance dropped to 16, while, when
Coombe was moving his Household Suffrage
Bill, there was only eight listeners.
Westralia’s meat ring is gradually Crush-
ing the old-fashioned master butcher out of
existence. Kalgoorlie and Boulder; for in-
stance, have now only about three shops
which really belong to the man who owns
the name over the door. All the others are
run by the ring, _ under the names of the
people whom the cormorant has eaten up.
Occasionally, there is a change of name, and
the public is informed that Messrs. Bull and
Cow have taken over the business of Sheep,
Swine and Co., and that all debts due to the
former must be paid at once. But this is
merely one of the ruses for collecting coin,
and the profits made by Messrs. Bull and
Cow go into the same old pocket that
pouched those of Sheep, Swine and Co.
The Verran (S.A.) Government has a
Bill before Parliament to stop the further
sale of State lands, and substitute a sys-
tem of perpetual leasing. At present selec-
tors have the option of taking land under
either tenure. Originally wor,king-men’s
blocks, near Adelaide and other centres of
population, were only let on perpetual lease;
but Parliament recently yielded to the
clamor of the holders, who were allowed to
purchase the fee-simple. Some of those sub-
urban blocks are now very valuable.
It is difficult to see that the Australian
Government will gain anything worth squab-
bling about even if it succeeds with its pro-
posal to pay the State Governments only 3
per cent, on the value of resumed properties.
They were mostly built with loan money
that costs 3i per cent., and that appears
the reasonable interest to pay. Of course,
as it is the people of Australia who both pay
and receive, iT is merely a question between
the right pocket and the left, and it wouldn
make much difference even if the interest
was 1 per cent, or 6 per cent. Still if tin-
right pocket technically owes, say, and
the left pocket wants it, and refuses to be
stalled off with 3d, and a bit of fluff, and
there is danger of the two pockets becoming
uncivil and infuriated about it, it seems a
simple matter for the right pocket to pay up
and avoid annoyance.
As every newspaper reader knows, an at-
tempt was made a few years ago to intro-
duce six hatters to N. S. Wales; but the
Commonwealth Government fell upon them,
and fried them in fat, and hanged them, and
subsequently compelled them to commit sui-
cide by drowning, after which they were be-
headed. Naturally this completely killed the
proposed hat-making industry, and tue
patriot who proposed to be the founder
cleared out to Maoriland —the papers men-
tioned it at the time. At least, these things
should have happened; but owing to some
dreadful accident, and in spite of the twin
curses of Federation and Protection, the
Sydney D. T. is compelled to record that “the
century began with 10 small struggling fac-
tories in the State; the first decade has
ended with 32. Fourteen hundred employees
are to-day steadily at work, where less
than 300 were then fitfully employed.” And
many more might be employed if they were
available; but the Telegraph mourns that
they are not to be had. Presumably to
guarantee that the Hivh Protection will be
maintained, and to thus encourage the
needed extra hands to go into the business,
the Telegraph \ II barrack for the Joe
Cook group of Freetraders at next election.
When the Telegraph wants to guard
against being thirsty, it always orders "a ton
of coal and a fire-grate. And, in politics, a
lot of other fools do the same thing.
Some stodgy genius proposes “Austral” as
the name for the Australian capital. But
the place has been christened already. Na-
ture did it. Its name is Mud.
The British Admiralty has issued a return
showing that the naval expenditure of seven
Powers for the current year is close upon
£146.000,000: —
The cost of living’s very high,
The poor complain with every breath.
And still more fiercely they decry
The still increasing cost of death 1
victoria. S.


1
X- <'v i
wmm
;
,
V
* '
•'• V
: :
,
m
ipgfi
- - / ■* ... i
-■
mm i
■
m
Hi ■■■ liliMilI®«lffl§lll
"'ll
KEEP TO THE RIGHT!
JD 1
WHISKY
IS
RIGHT
ĺ
i rt '
1
!wss at com mm
R.Tkorme, fir Sons uwmso
D'SrsaLß- -
UCS test :»sf; HiU. LOW© E C
YOU will choose the right whisky
when you order THORNE’S ; for in
its rich, full flavor you will find true
pleasure; in its mellowness you will
find the real evidence of genuine maturity;
and in its pure, wholesome quality you will
find that SATISFACTION which invari-
ably follows the choice of such a fine old
Highland Malt Whisky.
For 80 yearsTHORNE’S has maintained
a standard widely appreciated by all good
judges of whisky.
Ask for THORNE’S—it will be served in
that distinctive bottle which is illustrated here.


Shipping.
P. and O. BRANCH SERVICE
For DURBAN, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
SALOON ACCOMMODATION. AMIDSHIPS.
CONVERTED INTO VERY SUPERIOR
ONE CLASS.
LONDON .. .. £l6, £lB & £2O.
CAPETOWN & NATAL, £l3 135., £l5 15s. & £l7 17s.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SA'OERSON, LTD., 7 Bent St.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William Street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents: GEO. WILLS & CO.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAND.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy. New and luxur-
ous 12,000-ton Steamers. Cabines-de-luxe; State-
rooms, with bedsteads ; Single. Berth Rooms, Private
Bathrooms, Electric Lifts and Laundries
Sailing every fortnight from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Eta.,
12 Martin Place, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES.
HEAD OFFICE : MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
FARMERS AND SETTLERS’
LOANS TO £2OOO
on Country Lands, for 31 years. Repayable by
half-yearly instalments.
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES.
HEAD OFFICE: MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
LOANS from 4 to 5 per cert.
on City and Suburban Securities and broad acres,
up to £25,090, with special repayment privileges.
J. 11. DAVIES, Secretary'.
™- jjank of |)orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
.Sidney Office: Corner of George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director:
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 4 QUEEN VICTORIA STREET, E.C.
Manager: R. R. LOVE.
Bankers: THE LONDON COUNTY & WESTMINSTER
BANK, LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Bank of Heui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
Total Capital Paid-up . . . . £2,000,000
Uncalled Capital . . . . . . £500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits £1,034,405
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea
land, Fiji, Great Bri-
tain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
THE.
Australian Bank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. .. £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED .v •■. . .. £1,198,3441
» .PAID-J^P'i (30th June, 1911) .. £1,180,812
HEAD OFFICE—George and King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE—2 King William Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS—Sir William P. Manning, lit., Chair-
man; George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D. ; Chas. IT.
Myles, Esq.; Mark Sheldon, Esq.; Arthur S.
Barton, Esq; Frank N. Yarwood, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales & Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the world.
A. P. STEWART, General Manager.
The ...
Queensland National Bank,
Limited
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. £SOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up . . . . . • 413.494 810
Reserve (in Gov. Stock) .. .. ICO,COO 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
Directors: JAS. MILNE, Esq., Chairman; JAMES
MUNRO, Esq. ; JOHN CAMERON, Esq. ; F.
LORD, Esq.
General Manager —W. V. RALSTON.
Branches—London, Sydney & throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
Shipping.
REDUCED FARES
To EUROPE
BY
N ord Deutscher Lloyd.
PASSENGERS hooked to Egypt, Naples,
Genoa, Algiers, Marseilles, Gibraltar,
London, Antwerp, and Bremen.
All steamers fitted with “Wireless” Installation.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
REGULAR FOUR-WEEKLY MAIL SERVICE
from Sydney and Brisbane, via New Guinea,
by Twin-screw Steamers.
For Passage and Full Particulars apply to—
LOHMANN & CO., General Agents,
7 & 9 Bridge Street, Sydney ;
OSTERMEYER, VAN ROMPAEY & Co., Melbourne;
li. MUECKE & CO., Adelaide;
L. RATAZZI & CO., Perth and Fremantle;
THOS. BItOWN & SONS, Ltd., Brisbane & Townsville.
COLORED POST CARDS, by Harry J.
Weston —‘ ‘ WEEKLY WORRIES. ”
Set of six, posted free, 6d. Bulletin
Newspaper Co. 214 George St., Sydney.
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN, PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
ļ
Twin-screw Steamers.
RUNIC, 12,500 tons, to sail about
November 8.
MEDIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
November 22.
AFUIO, SUEVIC and I’ERSIC to follow.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy and
Submarine Signalling Apparatus.
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Fares —Capetown or Durban £l5 15 0toi: 24 3 0
London . . . . 19 0 oto 30 0 0
Melbourne .. . . 1 10 0
New York, Boston, Quebec,
Montreal, etc., from 25 0 0
Pamphlets and all other information on application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing,
DALGETY & COMPANY, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
TN€ RB€RD€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth and
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
a New Steamer. b Triple-screw Turbine.
* Third Class only.
FARES — Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. From £57 £l6 Os. to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban From £3l 10s. £l3 13s. to £l7 17s.
Special Return Tickets available for outward passage
by Orient Line—£ll2 (First-class each way);
£B5 (Second-class Orient).
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £126 10s.
SALOON CABINS on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest stan-
dard.
Pamphlets. Time-Tables. &c.. on application.
DALGETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia.
POES THIS APPEAL
TO YOU?
A CRUISE through the coral isles of the Pacific,
affording tourists an opportunity, previously un-
thought of, of viewing the strange inhabitants of
the various South Sea Islands in their still semi-barbarous
state.
If so, we will be happy to forward you our pamphlet
describing our different island lours.
jlĵ
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., 11 Bridge St., Sydney.
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Esia.b3ishcd 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
DIRECTORS
j
£2,991,560
£1,969,435
£2,991,560
£7,952,555
The Hon. 0. K. Maclvellar, M.L.C., Presiden
Senator The Hon. James Thomas Walker.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.C.
Auditors : Alfred Georsre Milson, Esq. ; William Harrington Palmer, Esq.
Head Office— George St., Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle St., E.C.
With 332 Branches in allthe Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji and Paoua (New South Wales lds, Victoria 38,
Queensland 49, S >uch Australia 5, VVest Australia 11, New Zealand 57, Tasmania 1, Fiji 3, Papua 2,
London 1); and Ajrentsand Correspondents throughout Tasmania, the United Ivinirdom, Europe, India, China’,
Japan, and the East, Africa, Canada, the United States, South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
Cable remittances made to, and Drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. ’ Foreign Bills negotiated and
collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT THE AVORLD.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manasrer.
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. £1.500,000 0 0
Reserve Fund . . . . 1.460,000 0 0
Reserve Capital . . 1,500,000 0 0
£4,460,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
George J. Cohen, Esq .. .. Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Rater, M.L.C. .. Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C. A. J. Onslow Thompson, Esq.
Norman Shelley, Esq.
Auditors: F. W, Hixson, Esq., & W. L. Docker, Esq.
General Manager: T. A. Dibbs.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
H. H. Massie.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
Manager: A. J. Soutar.
Accountant: W. R. Sayers.
Secretary: M. S. Grant.
Branch Accountant: J. Clayton.
Inspectors: W. C. B. Tiley, AV. H. Pinhey.
London Office: 18 Birchin - Lane.
Directors: F. H. Dangar, Esq.; Hon. H. S.
Littleton; N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up . . . . . . £519,237 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders . . 161,384 0 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) 75,500 0 0
£756,121 0 0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE.
Gen. Man., Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Man.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London,
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
The Colonial (Dutual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and
Annuities without Mutual Liability; also
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,219,446.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £5,300,000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. *ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
THE OCEAN
Accident & Guarantee
Corporation Limited,
Ocean House, 22 Moore Street, Sydney.
Eire, accident, workmen’s com-
pensation, PUBLIC RISK, BUR-
GLARY and PLATE GLASS INSURANCES
at Lowest Rates.
The METROPOLITAN
ACCIDENT, FIRE
and GENERAL
INSURANCE COMPANY, LIMITED.
AN AUSTRALIAN OFFICE FOR
AUSTRALIAN INSURERS.
HEAD OFFICE: 30 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
BRANCHES: Victoria, S. Aus., Queensland.
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.,
— FOR
Ordinary § Industrial Life Assurance.
Directors:
H. Montgomerie Hamilton, Esq., Chairman.
Victor E. Ludlow, Esq., L.R.C.5.1., L.K.Q.C.P.I.
Claujoe Manning, Esq.
John F. Ure, Esq.
General Manager: J. A. Henderson.
Secretary:
Freeman J. Eaton.
Consulting: Actuary
W. R. Day, F.I.A.
Head Office:
30 CASTLEREACH ST. (facing Moore St.), SYD
Queensland:
Metropolitan Building's,
Adelaide St., Brisbane.
Victni ili ■
48 Queen t.
Melbau, iiu.
The “Metropolitan” always has vacancies on its
Agency Staff for reliable and trustworthy men.
1
1G
Gives
STYLE
>&nd
COMFORT
Shipping:.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP GO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MFLBOURNK
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GOLF PORTS
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at, Freniiinr.le
t,r> all North Western Ports
GERALDTON (W.A.)
S.S. Kyarra (7000), Satur-
day, Nov. 25, and Dec.
23. Transhipping at l p re-
uiantle to all N.-West
Forts.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Pores Norrl. co Olirn
S.s. Innamincka. Nov. 4.
S.S. Marloo, Nov. 11.
S.S. Urantala, Nov. 18.
Best and Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can be
ascertained on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, G BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE “ ALL-KED ” HO UTIL.
To VAN CO UV Ell, via AUCKLAND
(N.Z.), FIJI, and HONOLULU,
thence by llail to any part ot'
CANADA or UNITED STATES.
The Best Route to Europe.
SAILINGS :
And every 28 days thereafter.
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Illustrated Pamphlets Free on Application.
Agents throughout Canada, United States
and Europe—Canadian Pacific Railway Co.
For full particulars applv—-
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George Street, Sydney.
F.— H. 5.
Federal-Houlder-Shire Lines.
STEAM TO LONDON, via SUEZ CANAL.
T.S.S. “DORSET.”
7630 Tons. W. L. Prentice., Commander.
Will be despatched from: —
BRISBANE, about 7th November, 1911.
SYDNEY, about 14th November, 1911.
MELBOURNE, about 21st November, 1911.
ADELAIDE, about 28th November, 1911.
The Saloon accommodation consists of all two-
berth cabins on the upper deck, situated amidships.
The superior third-class accommodation, comprised
of two, four and eight-berth cabins, situated on the
main deck, amidships, with dining room on the
upper deck. Well lighted and ventilated cabins and
spacious decks.
Third-class passengers supplied with fresh pro-
visions from cool chamber throughout the voyage.
Surgeon and Stewardess carried. Electric light
throughout. Return and Round trip tickets issued
via Cape and (or) Suez routes. Prepaid passages
arranged.
SALOON. THIRD CLASS.
FARES, £4O. £l3 135., £l7 17s.
From Brisbane, Saloon £2 ; Steerage One Guinea
extra. To be followed at regular four-weekly intervals
by fast twin-screw passenger steamers. For further in-
formation, illustrated books, pamphlets, etc., apply to
BIRT & CO., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane ;
H. JONES k CO.. Ltd.. Hobart:
McILWRAITH, McEACIiARN & CO., Propty., Ltd.,
Melbourne.
ET aif-i-TT f. r n . T,td.. Adelaide.
Hotels, &c.
l
George hotel,
St. Hilda., Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
SMOTE
&he HOTEL VICTORIA,
Victoria Place, South Brisbane, is MOST CENTRAL.
LARGE NEW BEDROOMS, with all latest Modern
Conveniences.
Oval Billiard Table.
Tariff: 6/- Day; 30/- Week.
JOHN BROoNAN, Proprietor
UNITED
THE
j INSURANCE
CO. Limited.
HEAL) OFFICE :
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY,
CAPITAL
Fire Insurances
Marine Risks. •
- £500,000.
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Bents also assured.
on Wool. Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “ United ” is an Australian Institution.
THOMAS M. TIKLKY, Manager.


iSouvenirs Typically
Australian
Here at the 44 Treasure House ” is much Jewellery and
Silverware symbolical of Australia, which is eminently
suited for conveying your good wishes to friends both
in and out of the Commonwealth*
•jl Displayed in our Show Cases, at all times, are many
suitable Australian presents, and in every instance the
sterling value and reliable quality characteristic of all
Stewart Dawson articles, exist*
CB7O0 —Engraved anil
Silver-plated Kangaroo
Serviette King, 10/6.
Others, from 2/6 up-
wards.
C 8 8 5 I—B eot quality
Silver-plated Kniis
Bests. 13/6 pair.
C 8226—Emu Ser-
riette Kins, best
silver-plate. 10/6.
J 6412 —Solid Sil-
ver and Enamel
Souvenir Spoon,
9/6.
J24Bs—Solid Sil-
ver and Enamel
Souvenir Spoon,
Australian wild
flower. “Wattle,”
price, 10/6.
Sterling: Silver-mounted Queensland
Bean Match Boxes, 8/6 and 10/0 ea.
9ct. Gold “Southern Cross” Brooch,
set with Australian Garnets or Ame-
thysts, 10/6; set with Australian
Tourmalines, 21/-
Solid Silver Souvenir Spoons,
with
KANGAROO, EMU,
NATIVE BEAR,
KOOKOOBURRA,
LYRE BIRD or
BLACK SWAN,
10/6 Each.
C 8731 ■*£ Silver - plated
Ornament or Menu
Stand, Australia base,
siin. high, 20/-
C 3 4 6 4—B e s l
Quality Silver-
plated Cake or
Bread Fork,
wood handle.
Kangaroo o r
Emu top, 9/6.
J2sll—Solid Sil-
ver and Enamel
Souvenir Spoon,
14/6.
J249l—Solid Sil-
ver and Enamel
Souvenir Spoon.
Australian “War-
atali,” 10/6.
C 8795 —Kangaroo &
Leaf Serviette Ring,
Silver-plates 7/6.
Gum
best
C 8854 Silver-
plated Australia
and Kangaroo
Serviette Bing,
10/6.
CBBss—Best quality Sil-
ver-plated Emu and Kan-
garoo Knife Bests, 14/6
pair.
Write
for
Catalogue
umiTeo.y
We
Pay
Postage
Strand Corner, 412 George Street, Sydney.
CHALMERS CARS
ACKNOWLEDGE NO COMPETITOR.
1912 MODELS and PRICES—
30=36 H.P. New Model, 4-speed gear —self starter (air
pressure)—36-inch wheels—long stroke motor. Fully equipped
with hood, screen, five lamps, generator, horn, tools, jack, etc.,
£,600
FULLY EQUIPPED.
20=30 H.P. Touring Car or Torpedo, unaltered (or 1912.
This is the car of which we have sold 60 odd since Christmas.
Fully equipped as above.
£4 7 5
FULLY EQUIPPED.
20=30 H.P. Torpedo, 2=seater same construction as touring
car, except 11 inches shorter in the wheelbase.
Fully equipped as above.
SEND FOE CATALOG.
£445
FULLY EQUIPPED.
ROY W. SANDFORD,
(WE GUARANTEE SERVICE).
CHALMERS THOMAS EMPIRE,
105 EXHIBITION ST., MELBOURNE; 181 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY.
Aerogen Safety Gas Machines
Produce an Absolutely Perfect Light. - *!
Ideally Suited for Country Houses,
Stores, Hotels and Billiard Saloons.
AEROGEN GAS can be used for HEATING and
COOKING with best results.
NO OFFENSIVE ODOR. NON-EXPLOSIVE.
Costs one-quarter that of Acetylene, and gives one-
tenth the trouble.
CAN BE USED WITH UPRIGHT OR INVERTED
BURNERS.
NO ENGINE IS NECESSARY. The AEROGEN
GAS MACHINE simply winds up like a clock, and is
entirely automatic.
Sole Agents for Australia:
PHILIPS & PIKE, Equitable Buildings, Sydney;
St. James’s Buildings, Melbourne.
Distributing Agents:
IIANNAMS, Ltd., Sydney; CHAS. ATKINS & Co.,
Ltd., Adelaide; ALCOCK & Co. Pty., Ltd.,
Perth; E. RICH & Co., Ltd., Brisbane; W.
REID & Co., Ltd., Rockhampton; ALF SHAW,
LTD., Townsville.
m
Z P\.
ms
ini
rm
mm
Dinneford's]
, - Magnesia.
DINNE FORD’S
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi.
tations purchasers
must see that
“Dinneford &Co.”
is on every bottle
and label.
The Physiciaji’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and riiost
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
MAGNESIA
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
Beard’s British-Built
Bioscopes, £37/10,-
No Bio Showman wants a better
machine than this. It’s the limit of
value and guaranteed in every particu-
lar.
There’s staunch British construction
in it. It’s as simple as AB C to operate,
and there’s never a flicker in Pictures
shown with it.
Let us send you full particulars—FßEE.
jl
We Stock Every-
thing for the Bio
Showman.
Send for our List of
Second-Hand Films.
JERDA^’S,
393 George Street, Sydney.
THE LEADING CINEMATOGRAPH
SPECIALISTS,
jl
3
c*
A MOUSTACHE PRODUCER of REAL MERIT.
A Moustache Producer which has
stood the test of 30 Years.
CAPELLARINE.
Other Pomades have come and gone, but CAPILLARINE remains
—a standing testimony to its merit as a Moustache Producer.
Even though you’ve got no Moustache at all, CAPILLARINE will
produce a strong growth of hair in double quick time.
Apply at night. No one can detect its use. Get a jar to-day.
Price 10,6.
Post Free Anywhere.
Send for our Free Illustrated Price List.
The C. & A. MOUSTACHE TRAINEK —worn at
shapes the moustache. 2/6, 3 6, 5/6 each, Post
CRAIG & AITKEN. 654 George Street, Sydney.
niuht
Free.
Established
30 Years.
s
J


HAPPY THOUGHT!
A “Montserrat” Lime Juice and Small
Soda; it: cools and purifies the,blood. Ask
your storekeeper for it to-day.
The people who sell Malthoid, Pabco and the P.
and B. products work an interesting idea. Each
country produces a booklet, “Our Interchange,’’
illustrating the local buildings in which the goods
are used, and passes it on to the other agencies. Jk>-
7 booklet, just issued by the Australasian agency, is
a fine set of views of modern Australian architecture
—a good advt. for the country as well as for the
co.’s goods.*
CHRISTMAS EDITION of
“THE BULLETIN,” 1911
A Special and Enlarged Issue
Published on DECEMBER 14.
It will contain the best Stories, Verse and
Sketches, grave and gay (mostly gay), con-
tributed during the year by the foremost Aus-
tralasian writers.
The illustrations, by “Hop,” Alf Vincent, Nor-
man Lindsay and other leading representative
artists, will be the finest Black and White work
obtainable in Australia, and will reflect the
national humor.
The Bulletin’ Christmas Number is the annual
reflection of the life and thoughts of our country,
and therefore useful as well as interesting.
Ayents will be 'supplied, at the usual rates, but,
in consequence of the heavy outlay on this Special
Edition. NO RETURNS will be accepted.
ORDERS FOR EXTRA COPIES should reach
vs not later than the 18th NOVEMBER to ensure
supply.
Single copies post free to any part of the Com-
monwealth States and Maoriland, 7d.; Foreign
addresses, 9d.
Martin’s Pills are sold by all chemists and
stores in Australasia. Ladies recommend
them. Be sure you get the genuine with the
signature, Martin, Chemist, Southampton.*
. Missing Friends.
| > OLAND ELLWOOD TERRY SHUTT
l\/ —or TERRY. Anyone knowing the
whereabouts of above person, who left
Loughbro’, England. November, 190 S. for
Otorohanga, W. T. W., New Zealand, thence
for Sydney, August, 1909, please communi-
cate with
W. A.,
Bulletin, Sydney.
[ IT PATRICK and HENRY McDONOUGH, sons ot
1 JOHN McDONOUGH, late of Cranbourne, will
"communicate with the Curator of Estates of De-
ceased Persons, Melbourne, they will hear of some-
thing to their advantage. , -A
JOHN llARRlSONußanufacturer
of North Street, Belfhsvwill hear of
something advantageous by communicating
with Frank Kerr, Solicitor, Belfast, Ireland.
IS.
I s
a
A
Sensible
Tropical
Suit.
" M 'ie style of Patrol
Suit is the most sen-
sible for the warm
weather. The only
undergarment it calls
for is a singlet. as it
buttons right to the
neck.
We have these suits
in all sizes, and can
heartily recommend
them.
In White Drill, the price is l"/ 6; ,n
fancy Tussore, 21/-.
SAC SUITS (ordinary style) \ n 'f'
meal crash —a material which is de ism
fully cool, and which will wear " e
also 17/6 and 21/-
If you haven’t our Catalogue, vill
send for a copy?
LIMITED,
The Big' BlocK,
BRISBANE-
IN
BANANA LAND
The Home Secretary is going to intro-
duce a Bill to make public holidays
out of Anniversary Day—it is called Foun-
dation Day up North—St. George’s
Day, St. Patrick’s Day and St. Andrew’s
Day. Heaven and Appel only know the
reason for this invidious distinction. What
less have St. David, and St. Blaize and St.
(Iliad done for Australia than George and
Pat and Sandy?
Died at Toowong, on October 25, aged
48, W. F. Wilson, a member oL Banana-
land's Land Court. A Victorian by birth,
lie was taken to Queensland as a youngster,
and, after eating some food at Oxford, was
called to the English Bar in ISB6. Return-
ing to Bananaland, he was admitted there,
and in 1898 was appointed Counsel to
the Lands Department. When Kidston de-
cided to go on to the Land Court, lie took
Wilson with him, being, it was said at the
time, smitten with a doubt whether he per-
sonally knew quite as much about the Land
law as a Land Judge should.
The chairman of the Royal Bank of
Queensland had his little fling at the pro-
posed Commonwealth Bank the other day :
Such an institution will inevitably be of a politi-
cal nature, and for that reason alone a danger to
ithe public, because its policy will be liable to
periodical changes as political parties change.
Well, S. Aus. has had a State Bank for a
long while, and though a Labor Government
has been in office for three or four years, the
State Bank’s management is just the same
as it always was —which is to say, it is non-
political and mostly Conservative. And Vic-
toria has had a State Bank for many years
also, and the who run it include a very
Fat; jfeegchahfy and a very Fat ship-bwner
jand a very- Fat pastoralist, and all these, of
course, are liable to become anarchists on a
change of Government. Furthermore, there
lias been a Laborite at the head of the Post
Office for some time, and the shocking class
administrator immediately got to work by
letting affluent banks send their tuppenny
letters for one penny. On the other hand,
this writer, though an immoral Labor sym-
pathiser, notices that when in Sydney he still
has to pay the same old penny to ride on
the railway tram, though a Laborite is boss
of the Treasury. And he has a suspicion
that the Commonwealth Bank, when it ar-
rives, will treat him in. the same offensive
way.
The Select Committee appointed by the
Bananaland Assembly to inquire into W. H.
Ramin’s claim to have discovered the virtues
of cattle-vaccination agaijist tick fever, and
to have been the first to report the discov-
has presented its report. Ramm based
his claim on a letter written to the Stock
Department on January 9, 1896. In it he
suggested that “to prevent redwater in a
tick-infested district, the whole herd should
be inoculated with the blood of a perfectly
immune or tick-proof beast.” The commit-
tee found that the information contained in
the letter was not information of a discov-
ery, but a suggestion based on deductions
from results of experiments with scrub
ticks; so it sits on a rail by finding that
Ramm was the first to suggest inoculation.
THE DUTIES HE DID.
AMI CUSS : “ Well , old Imports was a hard man , but he aways did his duly."
CYNI CUSS : "Yes, that’s so—customs during his life, and probate at his death.”
“8.L.R.”: Queensland has been sounding
the chests of a few of its friendly societies,
and has discovered a hollow rattle in some
of them. The unpleasant epidemic simply
shouts for a periodical State inspection by
certificated travelling auditors, who should
also be instructors in simple bookkeeping.
These “lodges” deserve that much help at
least. In the days when I was an Oddfel-
low I was struck with the generous com-
radeship of the members. When a secretary
was asked to name those in arrears, the an-
nouncement would be, “Smith a month to
the bad,” whereupon Brown would offer to
“make him good.” Jones would later on
confide to Brown that he had “kept Smith
good” for three months, and so on. The
majority of the members were hard country
.toilers, and included timber getters, team-
sters, mailmen, laborers, farmers, a few
tradesmen and an odd professional man;
and, after all the scraping to keep them-
selves and their neighbors “good,” it is
hard mozzle to- be robbed by some highly-
p'aid official, termed a “brother,” simply be-
cause there isn’t some cold, mistrustful per-
son on the premises capable of checking the
dear brother’s cunningly-faked accounts.
We have been told by a man who lost three
children by dysentery during the epidemic last year,
that he saved his fourth child by giving it Cham-
berlain’s Colic, Cholera and Diarrhoea Remedy, and
says that he is convinced that had ’ he given the
other three this medicine they would '»have been
saved. Although he had the best medical' advice he
lost his three children. Chamberlain’s Colic, Cholera
and Diarrhoea Remedy is the most successful remedy
in use for bowel complaints in children. It should
be kept in every home, to be used in case of emer-
gency.t
A Protest.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The sea is (lod’s, and He made it, at least so the
Bible says ;
And I’ve worked for a bare existence on His pro-
perty all my days,
From cabin-boy to a skipper, in clipper ship, tramp
and scow,
And the days when I worked the hardest were plea-
sant compared with now.
fighting the sea for a living and sticking to duty
well
(You must carry out sailing orders, though told to
“proceed to II —11”) —
The sea I am not condemning. No brief do I hold
for Fate.
But 1 hurl a curse at the wages doled out on the
Lord’s estate!
If God in His wond’rous mercy would look to the
sea He made,
And give us a Royal Commission to sit on the sea-
man’s trade —■
Or, better still, if He ran it (as sailors would have
Him do),
Instead of leaving it wholly to those He has leased
it to,
Then things would turn for the better. We’d work
for the working's sake.
No tickets would be suspended. No sack for a slight
mistake!
Our trips they would last for aeons, and things would
be all serene.
No sneering youth from the office would ask where
the ship had been.
And then in the Barrier reaches, two moons would
be standing by,
And one would relieve the other to light up the
tropic sky.
No peering out in the darkness, with eyes that are
strained and sore,
To pick up a tin-pot beacon that's marking a reef
off-shore.
For light would be all-prevailing, and night would
be just like day,
We’d steer with a mind unburdened past island and
reef and cay ;
Full speed down the silver pathway—the track that
the moonbeams make —
Thanking the Lord as the Giver, and loving the sea
for Ilis sake!
But now we are rough and godless. We work for
the greed of gain,
Cursing the Lord in our trouble, and taking His
name in vain.
We stand bv the law of wages. We ask what is just
and fair
From those who have leased’the ocean from Him who
has placed it there!
They go to the church and chapel, and Heaven’s
their chosen goal,
They fill the plate with their bounty and pray for
the sailor’s soul.
The sailor’s soul I ,’Tis a poor thing. A thing that
the owner hires
To do his will on the waters . . . but wait till the
lease expires !
OFF THE QUEENSLAND COAST.
ALBATROSS.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Bkisbane, October 28, 1911.
My Dear Tiiargomindah,—
The clan Macgregor has escaped from an
orgie of dinner parties, and taken to the
wilderness. Since I wrote to you last week
the “poisoner” and rouseabout at Government
House have been preparing extra tucker for
the welcoming of the clerical Lowther-
Clarkes, of Melbourne, the Agent-General
Robinsons, and herds of local politicians and
other notorious characters. The giving of
dinners is a weakness of the Chiel Mac-
gregor, and the eating of them is the strong
point of local Society. But, for the time
being, Mac and her Ex. are wandering in
Central Queensland, inspecting precious
stones, fat cattle, new railroads and natural
resources and devices. Secretary Blythe,
an Australian, who recently scooped a B.A.
degree in Sydney, accompanies the party.
The Sub-Dean Pattinsons secured vice-
regal patronage and the vice-regal presence
for the bun scuffle to which the upper crust
of Brisbane Anglicanism was bidden to meet
the Lowther-Clarkes. Another such gather-
ing is threatened when Brother Donaldson,
alias “St. Clair Brisbane, Archbishop,” will
distribute the joyous welcome and hard-
shell tarts at his gaunt and comfortless-
looking bachelor establishment. Oh, let us
be joyful!
Talking of future feeds reminds me that
the meats are already baking in several
camp-ovens for the still much-feted Robin-
sons. The Premier Denham folk, with a
“bother-tlie-expense” air, have issued invi-
tation cards to Parliamentarians and their
expensive halves, to feed on the Government
launch Lucinda, with the Agent-General
pair. Mrs. Jim Robertson is also ringing
the dinner bell for a few pals, who will
break bread at an al fresco meal in the
Gardens. During an interval in the festivi-
ties Robinson will accompany Digby Den-
ham to open the new Thallon railway line.
In the meantime, his missus will become one
of. the Denham household, and fill in time
drinking tea and other edibles with the No-
bility, or what there is of it in stock.
Probably because Bernard Shaw is fash-
ionable, there is a slump in giving or being
given in marriage. Nevertheless, Miss
Ruth Lade, a pillar of local athleticism,
took her luck on her third finger on Wed-
nesday, when Mr. Colin McNaught pressed
a ring upon her. And what do you think?
The hitherto invulnerable bachelor, Modera-
tor Lundy, is shortly to become the worse
half of Miss Eva Bailey, a pretty Too-
woomba maiden. Sotchbyteria is all of a
flutter.
Miss Grace Cameron, a locally-bred ar-
tist, is back home fur a short spell. This
week her studio, full of pictures, lovely old
china, Oriental rugs and such things, has been
overrun by the gusliful plutocracy, to the
benefit of the lady’s bank account. Unfor-
tunately, we can’t keep our artist girls here.
Constance Cliauvel is in Sydney, Edith An-
derson returns to Paris, and Italy claims
Mabel Tliynne. Frankie Payne, who con-
sents to dwell in our tents, has deserted the
brush for the pencil, and her posters make
strone- drink and patent foods appear an
absolute necessity.
This week another death. F. W. Wilson,
son of the late Horatio Wilson, one time
Postmaster-General, passed over the Jordan
on Thursday. For several weeks his health
has been unsatisfactory, but, with charac-
teristic unselfishness, he refused to hear any
proposal to postpone his daughter’s wedding.
For many years he was prosecuting barrister
representing the Government in the Land
Court, and was regarded as one of the
greatest authorities in Queensland on land
matters. Recently, when two vacancies oc-
curred on the Land Court Bench, he was ap-
pointed to fill one, and rose from a sick bed
to be sworn in. He married a daughter of
the late Judge Harding, and his quiet life at
Dovercourt has always been marked by in-
tense devotion to his family. He has gone
where the good men go.
Miss Mabel Woolcock, whose warbling
at the Liedertafel, in Ipswich, the other
night, drew much joyful applause from the
audience, is booked to warble again at the
1 <iedertafel concert in Brisbane next week.
She and brother Jeff spent a few days in
Brisbane last week, after the latter had been
holidaying in Melbourne. Quite a number
of tea-drinking comnetitions in their honor
were liquidated in the limited time at their
disposal.
Mrs. Pinnock, ably backed up by Miss
Stephens and other friends and allies of the
Blind, Deaf and Dumb Institution, col-
lected about CO of the afflicted juveniles from
that place and gave them a hap’w afternoon
in the Botanical Gardens on Friday. In
case the applause should be overlooked, I rise
to give three cheers for the kindly pro-
moters. May they increase and multiply.
Yours affectionately.
AUSTRALIA JANE.
Digb.v Denham ‘.rets hold of some queer im-
migrants. A few days ago a new arrival was
charged with habitual drunkenness; wife
ditto. Three of the children of this hilarious
couple were already being supported by the
State; so there should be ample use for the
£1 fine that was deemed sufficient.
That scarred and battered clerical warrior.
Dr. Frackieton, has finally come to an under-
standing with his Ann-street (Brisbane)
Presbyterian congregation. He is to retire
on a pension of £156 per annum, and to be
allowed the title of Senior Minister —or
Wrangler— The Bulletin isn’t sure which.
“Itan”: Apropos the yarn that no man
will improve a leasehold. Three years ago,
Dr. Macansh had the courage to take up a
place called Arno, off the Barcoo, 321
square miles, without a drop of water on
it- —hopeless country for stock in its natural
state. To-day, there are six artesian wells,
providing for 35,000 sheep; the allotment
is divided into paddocks; the homestead is
lit with electric light, and electricity is on
tap to pump the wells when necessary.
Within two years, the progressive doctor
hopes to have 20 wells, with 150,000 wobbly
balls roaming over the domain —one of the
leaseholds that no man will improve! The
trutn is that the only way to make money
out of a non-transferable leasehold is by
improving it and working it, while, as for
freeholds, many millions have been made
by the simple process of sitting down and
doing nothing.


AUSTRALIAN
OPINIONS.
The following extracts from letters received by the Cambridge University Press
sbow the judgment formed of the new Encyclopaedia Britannica by some well-
Known Australian readers. Their enthusiasm for tbe new work coincides with
that already expressed by tbe leaders of thought and action in other English-
speaKing countries. Appended are a few extracts from leading newspapers in the
Commonwealth. The reader who wishes to own the great work thus described
should bear in mind two facts—(l) That the present offer at the minimum price
will shortly be withdrawn and the price raised; (2) that immediate application is
necessary to secure prompt delivery.
From His Honor Judge Heydon, Judge of the
Industrial Court.
“I wish to express to you the great pleasure
which I derive from my new Encyclopaedia Britan -
nica. For reference it is most satisfactory, and
for reading it is delightful. It is really wonderful
that such an immense mass of information should
be conveyed in so interesting a way, packed in so
small and convenient a space, and obtainable at
Avhat seems to me so reasonable a price. I look at
it every day with increased satisfaction/’
(Signed) CHAS. G. HEYDON.
From Professor R. D. Watt, Professor of
Agriculture in the University of Sydney.
“The Encyclopaedia arrived in splendid order,
and seems quite up to date, as may be judged
from the accounts of the South African Union and
South Polar Exploration.”
(Signed) R. D. WATT.
“It may fairly be claimed for the new Ency-
clopaedia Britannica that it covers a wider range
of human knowledge than any single work in
English, and covers it so well that it forms by
itself a sufficient reference library for the general
reader. The arrangement of the material is ad-
mirable/common-sense being the guide rather than
any fixed plan; and the spelling of names is in
accordance with usage. The Encyclopaedia has a
reputation for literary excellence, and the new
edition establishes it more firmly than ever as an
educational institution of the highest value. It is
self-explanatory, authoritative and up to date.”
—Bulletin (Sydney).
“This edition contains the very latest infor-
mation upon most topics. . . Australia comes in
for a good deal of notice. There are articles both
on Australia itself, and on its component States,
and the names of T. A. Coghlan, Sir John Cock-
burn, and others (who are responsible for the
historical and economic part), and of Professor
Gregory, of Melbourne, who described the physi-
ography and geology, are sufficient guarantee that
the work is thorough and the treatment adequate.”
—Morning Herald (Sydney).
“The 28 quarto volumes of text —to which a
•special index volume has been added, for the con-
venience of inquirers—were all prepared before a
single page was sent to the printer, and were,
therefore," also published simultaneously. This
means that the whole of the manuscript has been
under the editorial survey at one time —a real gain
as regards comprehensiveness of scholarship, for'
all articles will be up to date, and one will not con-
tradict another, as often happened in previous
editions.”
—Daily Telegraph (Sydney).
“It has been well said theft the Cambridge edi-
tion of the ’Encyclopaedia Britannica is a univer-
sity in print, bringing the highest academic learn-
ing of the world within the ken of every
purchaser. It is even more than that, for at least
half the 1500- contributors are not academic lec-
turers, but practical experts in the arts and indus-
tries—in medicine, law, engineering, commerce,
finance, exploration, agriculture, manufacturing
industries—who have paused, as it were, in their
activities to lay the fruit of their experience before
the general reader.”
—Surrdny Sun (Sydney).
From Professor Edgeworth David, C.M.G.,
F.R.S., Professor of Geology and Physi=
cal Geography in the University of
Sydney.
“Having read some of the articles dealing
with scientilic subjects in the 11th edition of the
Encyclopaedia Britannica ( Cambridge University
Press), I am of opinion that they are able sum-
maries of the best and most recent observations
on the subjects of which they treat. In view of
the masterly way in which the scientific portions
have been written —the only portions the merits of
which lam capable of judging —I am led to infer
that the rest of the work is probably of an equally
high standard.”
(Signed) T. W. EDGEWORTH DAVID.
From the Rev. Canon Bevan, Rector of St.
Matthew’s, Albury.
“The articles which I read are written in a
clear and intelligent style, and cover the subjects
with which they deal so amply that, though 1 no-
where found a superfluous word, I could discover
no omission of any important fact.
“I can imagine no. trade, profession, or occupa-
tion whatever in which the present edition of the
Encyclopaedia Britannica would not prove useful,
and, at times, indispensable.”
(Signed) FREDERICK BEVAN.
“We shall confine ourselves, therefore, to a
brief notice of such articles as are of special in-
terest to Catholics. . . As would be expected from
such eminent authors, the articles we have men-
tioned are scholarly, yet easy to read, terse, yet
comprehensive. It would be hard to find in any
one of them a superfluous word, and still harder
to discover the omission of any important fact.
Necessarily limited, as all articles in an ency-
clopaedia must be, they nevertheless succeed in
giving the reader a grasp of the subjects treated,
such as he might well fail to get from more lengthy
treatises.”
—Freeman’s Journal (Sydney).
“Whereas formerly one who wished to read or
even to refer to the Encyclopaedia Britannica was
obliged to place the volume in use on a table or
shelf, one who consults the present edition may do
so seated in an arm-chair. He may even hold it
in one hand, for each volume is bound with a
flexible back, to enable the reader to fold it back as
he would a magazine.”
—The Worker (Sydney).
“The Encyclopaedia Britannica has always
been a great literary compendium, an exhaustive
work of reference, an authority on every branch of
science, a geographical and historical treatise of
brilliance, weight and profundity, the expositor of
every school of philosophy and theology, a vade
mecum of the erudition and experience of all
lands and of all ages. But these qualities were
never more conspicuous or presented with such
completeness and originality as in the handsome
volumes now offered to Australian readers.”
Age (Melbourne).
“The reputation of the Encyclopaedia Britan-
nica as a work of reference is world-wide, and needs
no.e v plati«ation. Now that it is in the hands and
carries the guarantee of a great historic university
it is safe to predict that its prestige will stand,
higher than ever.”
Argus (Melbourne).
From Hr. Pietro Baracchi, Government
Astronomer for the State of Victoria.
“I have read all the more important articles
relating to Astronomy which are scattered under
various headings in the 11th edition of the Ency-
clopaedia Britannica, published by the University
of Cambridge. I find them all entirely up to
date, and possessing m a . mutikamy high degree
the rare combination of accuracy ancl completeness
with such brevity as is compatible with clearness
and efficiency. The authors, who are in all cases
the best known exponents of the subjects respec-
tively dealt with, have, as was to be expected,
thoroughly achieved the objects which a great
work like the Encyclopaedia Britannica is in-
tended to servo.”
(Signed) PIETRO BARACCHI.
From Mr. C. H. Hodges, M.A., formerly
Headmaster of the Church of England
Grammar School (Sydney).
“The names of the authors of articles in tlm
eleventh edition of the Encyclopaedia Britannica
suffice hs guarantees that the articles are thor-
oughly up to date and exhaustive. The maps and
illustrations are of the highest excellence, but the
point in which it is incomparably superior to
former editions and to all works of the same class
known to me is certainly in being Tandy/ ”
(Signed) C. H. HODGES.
“Through the pages of this eleventh edition of
the Encyclopaedia Britannica the professors of a
world-wide university address their students, for
the editors have been able to draw upon the whole
world of learning.”
—Daily Mail (Brisbane).
“The association of the Encyclopaedia Britan-
nica with the name and fame of a great English
university means that it appears before the public
with commercial aims, made subservient to those
of sound learning and profound scholarship.”
—Advertiser (Adelaide).
“Of all general works, of reference the Ency-
clopaedia Britannica is the most thorough and
complete. It deals with all manner of subjects,
both ancient and modern, history, art, literature
and science. Fifteen hundred contributors, the
foremost writers and scholars of the day, have
been drawn upon in the compilation of this edi-
tion, and all the matter contained in it is abso-
lutely original, and Avritten expressly for this pur-
pose. The casual reader finds much that is inter-
esting, apart from its educational, aspect, in this
work, Avhile for general reference'it is invaluable.”
—Daily Post (Hobart).
Send To-day for Prospectus
and 56 Specimen Pages.
CUT HERE.
CUT HERE.
TO THE CAMBRIDGE UNIVERSITY PRESS,
Q Bridge Street, Sydney (P.O. Box 1612).
.J jj •: »V':
Please send me, Name ..........
gratis and post free.
the prospe'ctus and Address
56 specimen pages
of the new Eney- Sc 6 < 4
clopaedii Britan-
r.ica. ' ©Penpal ion
** • t


Vigorous
life restored bp
SCOTT’S
Emulsion
which succeeded at once
after other things had failed.
His mother, Mrs. E. Cross,
Bray Street, Mosman, Syd-
ney, N.S.W. (29th July, 10),
writes that:
" Without success I tried numerous pre-
parations for my son, aged 10 months.
He was very ill with a severe cough, had
no appetite, would not retain his food, and
jl
u:as so restless at night that
it teas impossible for me to
sleep. After the first bottle
of Scott’s Emulsion he
was decidedly better, and
now he looks quite a different
child, and sleeps and eats
well, cough quite gone and
cutting teeth without any
trouble. It is due to
Scott’s Emulsion that my son’s life has
been saved. ”
The sooner Scott’s Emul-
sion is tried, the sooner the
“ upward turn ” begins.
Scott’s Emulsion is the
only emulsion which can
give you CERTAINTY,
which rests upon a world-
wide reputation for saving
sick children, and which
should be worth to you
many times the price you
pay for Scott’s Emulsion.
Therefore do not ask
for “ emulsion ” —ask for
SCOTT’S EMULSION.
Of all Chemists and Dealers in Medipinesr
IF YOU CARRY A
£wanl
FOUNT
PSN
you are always ready to “jot it
down.” The “SWAN” has
no intricate or delicate parts
—consequently it never
gets out of order, and is
always ready to write
without adjusting or
coaxing. Good for
a lifetime.
jl
Sold by
Stationers
and Jewellers.
Catalogue free
from
MABIE, TODD 8 CO.,
LONDON, or
JAS A. BURKE
(Wholesale Only),
15 WALTHAM BUILDING,
24 Bond Strest, Sydney, N.S.W.
THE LAST WORD ON THE TREATMENT OF
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica, Lumbago,
AND KINDRED COMPLAINTS IS
SAM O L.
SAMOL is the result of a life’s research work by
a distinguished physician, Dr. Scheuble, of Vienna.
Dr. Scheuble has received for his discovery the
greatest honors it is possible for a medical man to
gain, including the highest award from the Vienna
Chamber of Science and decoration by the Emperor
of Austria.
SAMOL is a scientific product, the result of all
that is latest and up-to-date in the medical science.
SAMOL gives immediate relief. You have not
to wait for weeks before you get results —-you learn
its value in a few minutes.
SAMOL is not a strong, hot liniment, and needs
neither friction nor rubbing. It is a refined, delicate
ointment, so bland and soothing that it is specially
recommended for burns, wounds, eczema, etc.
SAMOL cures by administering the Salicylic ether
of Menthol by absorption.
SAMOL contains no harmful ingredients. It is
sold in tubes, price 3s. 9d. - and 65,, and can be
ordered through any chemist, or obtained post free
direct from the wholesale agent for Australia, H. A.
Goddard, No. 3 Eden’s Buildings, 108 George Street,
Brisbane; or branches; 194 Vickery’s Chambers,'B2
Pitt Street, Sydney 9to 15 Stock Exchange Build-
ings, Queen Street, Melbourne; 3 Ellershaw’s Build-
ings, Cliff Street, Fremantle; -213 Watson’s Build-
ings, Auckland.
Those preferring; an internal remedy can obtain
the same results from Dr. Scheuble’s Salimenthol Tab-
lets, put up in glass cylinders, price 3/6, post free.
“ ri dHE Australian thinks in Continents,because
1 he is the only, ipan who has a Continent
to think in.” THE LONE HAND is the only
Magazine that caters for a Continent.
APENTA
NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
Obtainable from All Chemists.
MOTHER SEIGEL’S SYRUP
THE HERBAL
REMEDY MADE OF
ROOTS-BARKS & LEAVES
CURES
INDIGESTION-HEADACHES
BILIOUSNESS-WIND
AND OTHER
When you only eat because you must
eat, though you well know that you will
suffer agonies afterwards—when you
have no energy for either work or rec-
reation, take Mother Seigel’s Syrup after
each meal, for a while, and all the tor-
tures, all the gloom of indigestion, will
be overcome. The Syrup exerts a re-
markable tonic and strengthening effect
upon the stomach, liver, and bowels ;
and when these organs are in thorough
working order, you will never have
pains after eating, heartburn, furred
tongue, headaches, biliousness, anaemia,
or constipation. Test it now—to-day.
STOMACH
& .
LIVER
TROUBLES
TAKE IT DAILY-AFTER MEALS.
“Aberdeen”
AS APPLIED TO
Tarpaulins
“ABERDEEN,” as applied to Tar-
paulins, I Vater Bags, Tents, etc., is
merely a short way of saying “ALL
THAT IS STRONGEST, MOST DE-
PENDABLE, RELIABLE AND
BEST.” “Aberdeen” always means
exactly this. If you want all the
above, then you want “ABERDEEN”!
,
There’s solid Value in “ABERDEEN ”
goods, and if unobtainable locally, send
for Price List.
Smith, Copeland & Co. Ltd
204-6 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
AGENTS—
VICTORIA : J. Dartram & Son,
King: Street, MELBOURNE.
S. AUSTRALIA : C. Whiting,
Currie Street, ADELAIDE.
QUEENSLAND : H. I. H. Ross,
Edward Street, BRISBANE.
TASMANIA: Seabrook & Neal,
Collins Street, HOBART.
AERATED WATERS
r*"'!?.
m
THE REGAL Aerated Water Machine. 1911 Model.
of the very best quality are produced with the
REGAL
at less than ONE
PEIiNY per dozen.
The most perfect and compact
m.iclline ever offered for the use
of Hotelkeepers, Cafes, etc.
11 7 rite at once for Catalogues
and I'rices.
Sole Manufacturers:
Eckersley S Sons,
3 Bond Street, Sydney,
and Melbourne.
AGENTS:
QUEENSLAND: Elliott, Donaldson
& Douglas, Brisbane,
s. Australia : Auid & Sons,
AdMaide.
W. AUSTRALIA : L. Samson & Sons,
Fremantfr.
Notb As a warWw-ty for the ex-
cellent quality of the a«*ted waters
produced by Eckersley’s msrahiaos,
we may mention that they are
used exclusively in the leading hos-
pitals in Sydney, Melbourne and
'Wellington.
F" EFI
■ m wmmm bni
Colored and Artistic
Post Cards.
NO MONEY WANTED.
Send us your name and address and we will forward voil 12 pafc rets, each
containing u of our colored and high art Post Cards to sell for us at 6d.
per pac ;et. When you have sold the cards, return us our and we will
send you for your trouble any present you may choose from the list of
jewellery which we forward. By continuing the sale of our cards you
can earn a Ladies’ or Gent.’S Silver Watch and Chain.
Remember, we want to do business with vou again, and to do this
we must give you full satisfaction. We take all the risk. >mi
can return the cards if notsold. We have no connection with
j
F
R
E
E
any other Firm. \\ e are the largest dealers in post cards in Austr dia, and import our
jewellery, or we could not ma :e you this liberal offer. de the iirst in your district, ou p s
cards sell at once, wherever seen.
126 BOND ST., SYDNEY.
REGAL POST CARD CO.
VICE-REGAL
ĵlj
HAIRDRESSERS,
The Misses Isaacs
161 iting Street,
_ SYDNEY.
Transformations from £4/4/- Tails from 7/6.
Puffs, Pin Curls and Ail Accessories always in Stock.
COUNTRY ORDERS RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION.
Fringes from 7/3.
Combings'made up.
’Phone 2138 Cent ral.
ST
The Queen of Table JVaters
OBTAINABLE FBOM ALL CHEMISTS
The'Standard Remedy which has outlived the Century.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
in om since 1596.
CURES
Australia Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for itshistory—the is fre«
s. ORfcEN; 210, Lambeth Load, London, w*-
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted, whether sent by post or handed
in; apd no MS. will be returned unless stamps
(of qny State) accompany.
Noosa: Who produced the alleged statis-
tics showing that, if the cow business paid Bs. per
day wages, the cost of producing butter would be
Is. sd. to Is. 6d. per lb. ?.... Sledge: Too vague
and wordy.... Mollie Bawn: All of them right off
the B.’s literary beat. .. .llava Pot: Drunk yarns, to
be acceptable, must contain points of novelty. The
adventures of Charlie and his friends befall
our Religious Editor practically every night
. ...G.C.S.: “Ways of Many Waters” from
any bookseller. Verses asked for are not in
book-form yet, but E. J. Brady will publish another
vol. of verse shortly... .C.M.McI.: Write to the
headquarters of the co., and if you can’t get any
satisfaction, let’s have the correspondence.... Pons:
Don’t remember the circumstances, but resolve to
pass the verses 0ut.... Lupus: The Bulletin doesn’t
know every old story that has been printed, but it
has the record of that drowned dog ; and as a para-
graph is known by the company it keeps, the other
story is sentenced to sudden death on suspicion....
Dreamer: None of them suitable for B. Can’t dis-
cover any name or address on MS. No stamps at-
tached for return.... Ixion: Incoherent poem....
A. (Tas.) : They fail to allure us. . . . J.M.S-Y.
(West Africa): Unable to use them. .. . F.T.M.:
No. ... Y.E.X. : Two lines of yours and two of the
First Fish Liar’s:—
By close, unsundered ways of speech
Eternity prevails.
(This fact the old sea serpents teach
In schools of senior whales.)
....Adenoid: Bearings of poem loose. .. .R.M.: You
needn’t try again.... R.N.C.: Rejected all with en-
thusiasm S.K.C. (V.): Skull poem thrown
from the battlements.... Q.: The foolish theme de-
mands a lava flow of scornful verse. You are no
volcano. .. .C. G.'M.: Gentle, kittenish poem. Haven’t
the heart to thrbw bricks at it. Please take it
home in a lunch-basket. .. .Warder: The best verse
of your poem planed flown and varnished :
She flew like a ghost to "the battlements high ;
A white moon looked out friwn the depths of the sky.
The jewels from her throat
She cast in the moat
And shrieked at her husband: “You villain! Good-
bye!”
Then the monster came out in his aOn or bedight
And flung at his missus a sneering “GoW-night
. ...F.J.G.: Yes, think it might have a‘Xshance in
England.... G.A.G.: Brightly libellous verse.i . .Red
Ink: The Office undertaker assures us with tears in
his voice that it would shock the trade. The
basket, wearing a band of crape, received it rever-
ently. .. .G. 8.: Both graceful, but not up to stand-
ard. .. .R.M. (V.): Does it howl for publication?
It doesn’t even whine! Eavesdropper: Must
admit we don’t care for Jim.... Drake G.: Let an-
other 17 years roll by, and try again. . . .S.G. (Tas) :
You have murdered Tiifie, and found his pockets
empty.... Cynic (M.L.) : Dreadfully dull and mono-
tonous. There are 11 verses —or rounds—and at the
end of each the reader gets slammed on the ear with
the line: “In God’s Own Blessed Country.” As a
matter of fact, it isn’t country at all; it’s
Cohen’s.... Alice M.: It is a bleak, cheerless poem,
with unexplained snow on its summits and obscure
death-adders in its abysses. One swoop:—
Grief keeps its vigil on the starry heights
By sleepless Sleep.
Adown the vale I see the watchers’ lights.
Fear flies for ever thro’ these chilly nights.
Now who will weep?
Perhaps sleepless Sleep will oblige.... R.F.M.: Un-
suitable for u 5.... Will C.: Neither of them scores.
W.T.S.: Can’t decide what to call them ourselves.
Still pondering. Perhaps, in a year or so, a fitting
epithet will occur to us.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CONTRIBUTORS.
Henry D.: There’s just one fault about your pic-
tures ; they are horrible. If they weren’t horrible
they would be very good pictures. .. .J.E.F.: In-
ability to get a girl has long since ceased to be a
joke, and has become a tragedy,.. .Fitz: One of
them will serve as suggestion.... Lance M.: Too
wild a variety of art.... J. W. Mac: Chestnuts; and
you’re not much of a hand at choosing them either.
V• • B-: That man who was “doing anybody,” has been
appe too often before... .F.H.M.: The idea for the
political drawing might have scored a sovereign if
it hadn't wandered in late. Others unsuitable. .. .
B. hard: Not up, though there’s promise in the
drawing. ...A1 Reah: Ditto... .M.Y.: Very anaemic
little jestv)’.. .Terrier: Please don’t send us any more
original jokqs. They remind us that we’re getting
very old oursqlves.... Glenara, McG.: Pensioners. . .
S.M.: The mail- who couldn’t get in because a thief
had stolen the keyhole gave up drink nearly 100
years ag0....P. Cunningham: You’re miles away
from it, Peter —or Percy, as the case may be....
Or, Ob.: Too obscure. .. .Gasob: Not bad, but the
mango is a vegetable little (! known to most Aus-
If Australia adopts nickel coins for small
change instead of the big, hulking c6>pgr, it
should follow the simple Belgian idea. v In
Belgium, when you get an ordinary white 1
coin about the size of one bob, it is silver,
and represents a franc. When you get a
white coin of the same size, but with a
breathing hole in the centre, it is nickel, and
represents one-tenth of a franc —about a
penny. The blow hole in the centre is a
reliable test for dark nights.
“Brass Button”: Landsmen are apt to
jeer at sailormen and call them superstitious
when they talk about “lucky” and “unlucky”
ships, but I suppose even a landsman would
think twice before booking a passage by the
poor old Papanui now, if it was able to put
to sea again. Every sailor knows a long
list of “unlucky” ships, and has to be hard
up before he will sign on in one of them.
There is the Aotea, for instance. It strained
its luck on the coast of South America
first and was badly damaged. Then a few
months ago, when bound to Montreal to load
for Australia, it took the wrong turn and
tried to travel overland from the Gulf of St.
Lawrence. It was reported as being in a
critical condition, and the doctors said it
would never leave its bed, but they were
wrong, and it was revived sufficiently to
hobble to the Mersey for repairs. These
were extensive, and when they were com-
pleted it put to sea, and managed to keep
going for about a month. Then another fit
of giddiness or something seized it, and it
tripped and fell over some rocks at Morville
Point, on its way to Maoriland from Liver-
pool. The spot where it bumped this time
has an evil reputation. The reef is known
as the “Athens Reef,” from the old mail
steamer Athens which opened the lid of the
locker of Davy Jones there. The old Ther-
mopylae also left its bones there. Although
no trouble or expense was spared to float
them off, these two craft went to pieces. The
Aotea stuck for six weeks, but was towed off
and dragged round to Cape Town. It lin-
gered there five months, and now someone has
decided that it is to be patched up enough to
allow it to proceed to Genoa, where it will
be broken up. Shipowners are a hard-
headed crowd who don’t worry about luck,
as a rule, but evidently the Aotea was too
much for even their nerves.


r iW '
: '
m
. :
4
1
11
'y -\
V>AV * ■ r - «TAt 5
SI
£ ■■ i
dflfliaw
BREWED- from
MALTED- BARIEV
***y&r> •% «v‘ nvw/Vw**'’*
r PW£R BRIDGE R?
ti»o.
!>
. I'-yyfpttl
feM^MPTONS
GMR
H
A£=Lf.4
m
.
E
jT
ljl
gases
[z2y.
m
THE
BEST PIANO
for tho
Australian Climate.
Obtainable from
MAX WURCKER,
99-101, York Street, SYDNEY.
Ana all prominent Piano warehouses in
the whole of Australasia.
a. *
jL& w Points
iSr /ni/entorj
Can I Obtain a Patent ?
The quickest, wav to ascertain this,
WITEIOUT EXPENSE, is to write
to me describing your invention, enclosing a small sketch
where necessary. Nicety of drawing is not essential;
all that is necessary at first is to give me YOUR IDEA.
I will at once inform you whether the idea is patent-
able, and, if so, give the necessary instructions for
further procedure.
Persons desirous of obtaining really reliable advice or
information regarding Patent matters are cordially in-
vited ro consult me personally or by letter. In all cases
a careful consideration of their plans, an honest opinion,
and a prompt reply may be expected.
A. J. CALLINAN, Patent Attorney,
Citizens’ Buildings, Collins Street, Melbourne.
THE CAUSE OF TOOTH
DECAY IS “ACID
MOUTH.”
THE Acid is Lactic
Acid, present in
most mouths,
and caused by fer-
menting food par-
ticles. It gradually
eats through the
enamel of the
teeth.
m
fei?'
P
4/
PEBECO
TOOTH
PASTE
overcomes
Acid Mouth.
While - Peb e c o
cleans the teeth
and keeps them
white, it over-
comes soft, bleeding
gums and maintains
the mouth in a
healthy condi-
tion. It is a soft,
smooth paste,
pleasant to the
taste, and valuable
in overcoming un-
pleasant breath.
G. ARNOLD,
6 O’Connell St., Sydney
(W HOLESALK ONLY).
>0
0
%
0
MM
8
irx
to
T+
*
Vi
w
o
o
s*
SLa.
This is the
‘Semelle” Non-skid
—the safest non-skid you can fit to your car.
This cover —which has specially hardened
steel studs projecting well above the tread and
deeply embedded in the rubber —ensures a
firm grip on the greasiest of road surfaces,
because the studs penetrate the grease.
Increased strength and support is afforded
by the stout leather tread, which is not an
attachment but an actual part of the tyre, and
renders it practically unpuncturable.
Remember! It is efficient as
a Non-Skid until worn out.
19
STOCKED BY ALL THE LEADING GARAGES.
fiYCoL
Is the Sentinel
of Your Home.
“ HYCOL ” guards it from disease.
Be sure therefore to keep it ‘on duty’ always.
18 TIMES STRONGER THAN CARBOLIC
Agents— and it is non-poisonous.
F. H. Faulding
& Co., Sydney
THE M9ST POWERFUL
DISINFECTANT*
ICILMA SHAMPOOS
TOO MUCH or TOO LITTLE washing ruins the hair. The ICILMA shampoos allow
you to clean the hair WITH OR WITHOUT WETTING, just as your hair* needs it
—a wet shampoo with ICILMA SHAMPOO SACHETS every two or three weeks,
and a dry shampoo with ICILMA HAIR POWDER whenever the hair is dull, dusty or
greasy, and wetting is inconvenient. Both ICILMA shampoos contain the wonderful
ICILMA elements which benefit and beautify the hair.
3d. Packet all Chemists and Stores.
Send 3d. Stamps and we will send you Post Free one to try.
ICILMA DEPOT, Dept. H, 139 York Street, Sydney.
THREE WITCHES
CIGARETTES.
tyORRISS
iree Witches
CIOARETTCS
tm/n
for
London
rcauc
HIGHEST GRADE.
Kb per 100, Post Pres.
MICK SIMMONS, SYDNEY.
Storekeepers and Tobacconists should
send for our Trade. Lists.


Amusements.
IYRIC ANI) COLONIAL THEATRICS.
™ Nos. J and 2, George Street, Sydney.
Direction J. D. Williams.
PERPETUAL MOTION from 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
PATRONISED BY 6'>,000 PEOPLE WEEKLY.
Run Under the Coni irmous Show System now the Rage
of England and America.
English and American Prices of Admission.
Same Prices at Each Theatre :
STALLS 3d. DRESS CIRCLE Gd.
ENTIRE CHANGE OF PROGRAMMES TWICE
WEEKLY : MONDAYS and THURSDAYS.
Afternoon Tea is Popular. Afternoon Pictures are the
Rage.
We Cater Specially for Ladies and Children During
Morning and Afternoon Sessions.
Ladies’ Retiring Rooms and Lady Attendants.
If it is to he seen anywhere you will see it at our
Theatres.
THE WORLD IN MOTION.
We want you to compare our Programmes and our
Theatres with others which charge twice our prices of
Admission.
THE GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS
AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
■ NTE It NATIONAL PICTURES. COLONIAL
■ Theatre Huildings, 610 George St., Sydney.
Mr. W. J. Morgan, General Manager.
This Company supplies the Lyric and Cotonial Theatres
with all their photo plays, and also supplies the leading
photo play concerns throughout Australasia. In fact,
we supply more shows with pictures than any other
three (3) concerns combined.
Don’t forget, Mr. Showman, to write or call.
We have the money-getters. VVe do not represent any
one firm of photoplay manufacturers, but we represent
all the best. WE HAVE THOUSANDS OF EXCLUSIVE
SUBJECTS-EVERY ONE A WINNER.
Branches: Sutton Buildings, Melbourne ; Courier Build-
ings, Brisbane; Wellington, New Zealand ; London,
England: Dewar House, Havmarket.
Just address your wire to “ international Pictures.’.’
That’ssufficient.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee ami Manager: J. < . WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
“THE BEST IN THE WORLD.”
EVERY EVENING AT 8 O’CLOCK.
MR. J. C. WILLIAMSON presents
THE NEW ENGLISH OPERA CO.
and
THE CHOCOLATE SOLDIER
In Three Acts.
BOX PLAN AT PALING’S.-
X 11 E A THE R O Y A L, SY DN E Y.
* Lessee Hi Manager .. J. C. WILLI AM>O.N. Ltd.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF THE SILVER KING.
SATURDA.Y EVENING NEXT.
IMPORTANT NEW ATTRACTION.
MR. J. 0. WILLIAMSON will present for the first time
... in Australia the Great. Comedy : Pram& .Success,
ALIAS JIMMY VALENTINE.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Prices as usual.
ADELPHI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction and Management, Gkoiigk Marrow, Ltd,
TO-NIGHT AND EVERY EVENING
MR. GEORGE MARLOW will present
ALLEN DOONE, America’s Irish Singing Comedian and
Actor, in the charming play.
SWEET COUNTY KERRY.
Box Plan at Elvy’s and White Rose Confectionery.
POPULAR PRICES —35., 2s. & Is. Early Door, (id. extra.
National amphitheatre. Sydney.
Sol- Proprietors—Brennan s Amphitheatres. Limited
Governing Direct r —Mr. James Brennan.
THE BEST IN VAUDEVILLE.
LORDY’S DOG ACTORS, the Inimitable. Incomparable.
FRANK J. SIDNEY & CO., Direct from India.
WALKER & SCOTT, Comedy Wire Act.
ARCHIE GLEN, “You Can’t Do Father.”
SMITE & SMOTE, Bur’esque Wrestling Match.
Thornton, Johnny Gilmore, Will Sullivan and our Great
Double Co. Amateur Trial Competitions, Friday
Evenings. PRICES AS USUAL.
J H E LYCEUM, SYDNEY.
SPENCER’S PICTURES LTD.
Direction : C. SPENCER.
THE PREMIERE PICTURE HOUSE
IN AUSTRALIA.
PRICES AND PLAN AS USUAL.
WE CHANGE MONDAYS AND THURSDAYS.
gYDNEYGLA C I A R I U M .
COLOSSAL PEOPLE’S ENTERTAINMENTS BY
WEST'S PICTURES, LTD.
“BEST OF ALL.” . <
FAMILY MATINEES—WEDNESDAY, 2.30.
DE GROEN’S VICE-REGAL ORCHESTRAS.
6d. to 2/- Plan at Nicholson's (No extra Fee).
T H
ALHAMBRA THEATRE,
Haymarket, Sydney.
Direction : E. J. KILPATRICK.
HOUSE OF CONTINUOUS EXCLUSIVE
PICTURES.
ALL AUSTRALIA.
“CROWNING GLORY” BIOGRAPH CONTEST.
£'4o PRIZES.
For Entry Forms and all information address
ALHAMBRA THEATRE, SYDNEY.
THE PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
1 Direction FRANK MUSGROVE.
ajm. CONTINUOUS PHOTO-PLAY p ”.
COOL, COMFORTABLE, SLIDING ROOFS.
TO BE SEEN
“AT THE VICTORIA FIRST.”
ENTIRE CHANGE OF PROGRAMME TWICE
WEEKLY—MONDAYS and THURSDAY.
6d. and 3d. Ciias. F. Joses, Manager.
TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
1 General Manager : MR. JOHN C. LEETE.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS
SAM MAYO, Quaintest Comedian on Earth.
CLARKE & HAMILTON, Musical Comedy Duo.
ALBERT REES, Emin u nt Drawing-room Entertainer.
THE FINNEYS, in their Tank Swimming and Diving Act
BARNEY ARMSTRONG & KELLY. ZELINI.
DALY * O’BRIEN. THE SISTERS SAXONY.
And a GREAT COMPANY of Established Favorites.
PRICES—3s. and Is. Plan at. Paling’s.
f\PERA HOUSE. MELBOURNE.
General Manager: MR. JOHN 0. LEETE.
EUGENE OSSIPOFF, Russian Baritone.
HARRY ALLISTER, Character Impersonator.
BERT LEVY, Lightning Sketch Artist.
FRANK HAWTHORN COMEDY CO.
KAVANAGII BOYS, Jugglers.
STARR TRIO. Eccentric Dancers. .
Plan at Allan's. PRICES—3s., 25., Is.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
" Sole Lessee : GEO. MARLOW LTD.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 4,
GEORGE MARLOW presents
THE SWISS EXPRESS,
The Musical Pantomimical Comedy and Continental
Latighmaker,
By a Strong and Specially Organised Company.
Price? as Usual.
Plan at, Allan’s.
J«| ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
MELBA GRaNd OPERA CO.
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 2, MADAME BUTTERFLY.
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 3, I A BOHEME.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 4, SANSONE E DALI LA.
PLAN AT ALLAN’S.
■HE KING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
sole Lessee and Manager : William ani>kr,sok.
A GREAT SUCCESS
WM. ANDERSON’S DRAMATIC CO., including MISS
EUGENIE DUGGAN, in the Great Romantic Military
Drama,
THE MIDNIGHT WEDDING
Box Plan at Allan’s.
■jpHEATRE
PRICES—3s., 2s. and Is.
ROYAL,
MELBOURNE.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 4.
ETHEL IRVING
LADY FREDERIC K.
FOR 12 NIGHTS ONLY.
Plan at Allan’s.
PT“ PRICES AS USUAL
OLYMPIA,
L
OLYMPIA,
Y M P I A, MELBOURNE
(Just across Princes Bridge).
, SPENCER’S THEATRESCOPE CO.
Presenting the Unrivalled
SPENCER’S PICTURES.
POPULAR PRICES FOR PERFECT PICTURES.
WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS at 2.30,
and EVERY EVENING at 8.
■HE
GLACIAR I U M, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J.tN.TAIT’S
PICTURES.
ALT, THE LATEST PICTURES from Europe & America.
A COMPLETE CHANGE WEEKLY. Prices—2/-. 1/6,
1/-, 6d. Matinees —Wednesday, Saturday, All Holidays
UIEST’S PAT, ACE, ME I, BOURNE
the best WIIBI S PIC IC J IKS, TH _ E BEST
OK ALL. LIMITED. OF ALU
Managing'Director : Mr. T. .1. Whst.
NIGHTLY AT 8.
Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays & All Holidays at 2.30.
Tiik. Gimathst Pictorial Enthrprish in tiik World.
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
Any Moving Picture Worthy of Note always to lie seen at
WEST’S PICTURES. Complete Change every week.
Prices —(id. to 2s. Box Plan at Glen's.
LYRIC THEATRE, Chapel St., Prahran, Vic.
EVERY NlGHl'at 8. MATINEE. SATURDAY, at 2.30
THE FAMOUS “NON-FLICKER”
PHOTOPLAYS
on the Marvellous “Mack” Screen, together with the
Superb LYRIC ORCHESTRA. 6(1. to 2s. Plans at
Allan’s, C. M. Read’s rind the Lyric Theatre Caf6.
ATHEN/EUM HALL, MELBOURNE.
Direction : WILLIAM ANDERSON.
EVERY EVENING.
MR. JOSURIi BLASCHECIv,
THE FAMOUS HUMORIST,
assisted bv
MISS MILDRED WRIGHTON,
with her ((harming “Songs at the Piano.”
Popular Prices : 35., 25., Is. Plan at ALLAN’S.
M. J. BLOOMFIELD, Manager.
The follies. the follies.
yTHE FOLLIES, THE FOLIUS,
"• Esplanade, St. Kilda
'■Direction ' ..- J A. N.-TAIT.
EVERY EVENING—AT S.3O—EVERY EVENING.
THE POLLIES.
With all the Late-t
Novelties from London.
Specially Selected Com-
pany of leading- Artists.
THU FOLLIES.
Prices : 1/6, 1/- and 6d. Reserved'Seals, 2/- at Allan’s.
THE NEW
EXCELSIOR
SOLAR TELESCOPE
and Microscope Combined, with Special Eye Piece for
jlfjhjhl
viewing Eclipses of the Sun end observing the mysterious Sun
Spots. Five powerful lenses. Sight range sto 10 miles. Five
sections extending to nearly 4 Feet. A Book ol Telescope Talk
with each instrument. Complete packed in a box and carriage
paid for only 8/6 The Union Company,
299 Elizabeth Street. Melbourne.
CONFIPCNTIAL Utters
Retail) Private
when the Zanetic
N.S.C. Copying
Book is
used.
NSC / 200
Pahni ZanetiC
copying Boo>v,
&
You slip your, letter
paper into the
holder, write your lei ter in ink, and the copy is made
as you write. Letter shows no sign of copying. The
letter !■- po-ted and the locked up. 400 octavo
(Biii. x sin.) letters, or 20(j qu.rto, can be copied in
NSC/100, post free for 3/9 ; or son octavo, or 400
quarto, in NSC/200, post free for 5/-. Sample of the
celebrated Zanetic ink paper which produces this
result, free, if stamped envelope sent to
S. B. ZANETIC, Zanetic Works, Welford Road.
LEICESTER, ENGLAND.
Please send Money-Orders , not P.O.’s.
DIABETES
la rated the
world over
aa incurable
but recover*
ies are being reported daily through Fulton's Diabetic Com-
pound. You may ask how it is possible for a person to
recover under the Fulton treatment when medical text books
admit they have nothing for it. Let us say in reply that when
the late John J. Fulton discovered that the text books had no
soec'fie for inflammation of the kidneys, which was the real
difficulty, he >et out in a new direction to evolve an emollient
that would reduce inflammation in the kidney tissues. He
worked it out, and now abouc 87 in every 100 cases, both of
Diabetes ami Bright’s Disease, even in’ chronic forms, are
shown to be curable.
Send for free booklet; it may save your life. We will
freely apprise doctors of the components. Several physicians
havi cured themselves.
The Union Manufacturing Co,,
299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
AGENTS
CANVASS
AND
CANVASSERS
Wanted all over Australia, N.Z. and South Sea Islands to
accept district monopoly for ever 100 American
and Continental quick selling special
Novelties. Saleable in every home. Agents settled or
travelling men and women can make big money. Lines
suitable for every district. Address Manager,
3 Waterloo Chambers. George St. Sydney, N.S.W.
Clement-Bayard
Motor Cars
Speak for Themselves.
Extract of a letter
from the late Manager,
“Motor Transit Com-
pany of Australia.”
Ulen Innes: “During
the time I was manag-
ing ‘The Motor Transit
Go. of Australia,’ we
had plying between
8-h.p. 2-cylinder Clement-Bayard Car, £225.
Glen Innes and Inverell an 11-10 Clement-Bayard Car, which we purchased as second-
hand. We did about 00,000 miles with her up to the time of my leaving (she is still going
well). Nearly all the running was done between Glen Innes and Inverell, over the famous
Waterloo Range, some of the grades of which are one in six. The Car was invariably
overloaded, and was given very little care; hut in the face of the had usage she received
at our hands she stood up wonderfully well, and the only repairs that were effected
were two ball races for road wheels and a set of new valves.” Call and allow us to
ex-plain the. reason why our prices for Cars generally, Commercial Lorries and High-
wheel Buggies will be found to be 25 per cent, lower than the usual Sydney quotations.
10-15-h.p., 4 Cylinder, fitted with one wide Seat and Boot at the Back, £365.
12-18-h.p., 4 Cylinder, fitted with Touring Body, £475.
15-h.p., 6 Cylinder, fitted with high-class Touring Body, £550.
Sole Agents :
Office
FAIRFAX 8 ROBERTS, LTD.,
Garaire—6 & 8 Underwood Street, off 37 Pitt Street.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23=25 HUNTER STREET.
MYSTERY SOLVED AT LAST
NO MORE SUPERFLUOUS HAIR.
A Positive Means That Takes Away Superfluous Hair for Ever.
SYDNEY “BULLETIN” COUPON FOR READERS.
No woman with a moustache, or, indeed,
with any hair disfiguring her face, neck,
arms or bust, need suffer
this mortification any
longer. To relieve all
such unhappiness arrange-
ments have been made for
IUUU copies of the com-
plete literature, describ-
ing the way to perman-
ently remove superfluous
hair, to be given away to
readers of the, Sydney
Bulletin, who are con-
stantly miserable because
oi sucn an unnatural un-
sightly growth. This
literature tells how the
women of Ancient Rome
kept their skins free and
clear from superfluous
hair, and how a Parisian
woman discovered the se-
cret. You are bound to
be surprised and de-
lighted after sending the
Coupon to the ROMAN
SOLVENE LABORA-
TORY, Dept. 631 D., 85
Great Portland Street,
London, W„ Eng., but
you must send this
Coupon without delay, as the supply
limited.
mm
BBS
No matter how heavy or light the growth,
it can now be permanently destroyed in a
few minutes on the face,
neck, arms, bust, or any
portion of the body. This
is not merely temporary
relief, for once the hair
roots are destroyed the
growth can never re-
turn.
The Vicomtesse de
Freminville, of St. Malo,
writes : “I am astonished,
as I have tried so many
things in vain. Your dis-
covery, I believe, is the
real means for removing
superfluous hair, and I
may repeat. I am de-
lighted.” Mile. Julie
llivaz, of Re Rainey,
says: “I no longer have
superfluous hair, al-
though before I had a
great deal. I have up
to now tried everything
in vain to remedy it. I
would not have thought
it possible to find a
means of removing so
completely and for ever
the superfluous hair.” Just fill up the Cou-
pon below and post to-day.
FREE SUPERFLUOUS HAIR COUPON.
GOOD TO ALL READERS OF THE SYDNEY “ BULLETIN.”
Cut out this Coupon to-day (or write and mention No. 6311).). and send with your name and address to
THE ROMAN SOLVENE LABORATORY (Dept. 0:111>.),• Bf> Great. Portland Street, London, W. Emr., and you
will receive full particulars hv return post, in a plain sealed envelope, regarding the way to PERMANENTLY
REMOVE SUPERFLUOUS HAIR.
Name
A ddrexst
X
rr
i •
The most heaUhy drink in
hot weather.—
Montserrat'
lime: juice
is a pure natural fruit juice which cools
and purifies the system; it is free from
alcoholic risk. The children love it.
SUPPLIED IN TWO FORMS—
Unsweetened, i.t.% Plain Lime Juice. Sweetened, i.e. Lime Juice Cordial.
Shave, Sir? Use a PLUM Razor!
Just why we recommend the PLUM is because
we guarantee it to be all that we claim for it. Depend-
able always—no matter how strong or how soft the
growth of your beard, the PLUM cuts clean and
easy. No tearing—no dragging. We keep it in
order free of charge for two years. Send for one
to-day.
PRICE 10/0, Posted Anywhere.
TheC. &A. Mous-
tache Trainer
shapes the Mous-
tache. Worn at
nij;ht; 2/8, 3/6,
5/6 each post free.
Send for our free
illustrated price list
We Grind and Set
Razors, 1/- each.
Single Razor, Black Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 21/-.
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-. This line
makes a very handsome present.
The Plum Razor Strop, 10/6 and 7/6.
Other good kinds from 3/6 each.
Stick good Shaving Soap. 1/-
The Plum Strop Dressing, 1/- Tube.
Gentlemen who'strive themselves
should nor be without it.
All tne above Post Free.
SAFETY RAZORS from 5/6.
THE PLUM RAZOR—
the Acme of Shaving Comfort.
CRAIG
AND AITKEN,
654 A GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
Established 30 Years.
10-2-4 : Bill Lang made a gross tactical
ei;ror in his engagement with MeVea, on Saturday
night. Either by accident, or of set purpose bred of
temporary dementia, he went so far as to deal his
gleaming adversary a good, hard knock in the epi-
gastrium, or thereabouts. Two minutes later the
foolish fellow was expiating his folly on the
floor, as insensible to the happenings of
this world as though a Nasmyth hammer had fallen
oil him from the top of the post office. A golden rule
for the present-day breed of “white hope” is: “Avoid
annoying the Coon.” In my opinion Lester went 20
rounds with MeVea solely because, with consummate
ring generalship, he held his hands over his face, and
refrained from attempting to inflict pain or em-
barrassment on the Ethiopian while in the ring.
“Snell”: The anti-boxing crusaders are
sharpening their fangs for the coming of Johnson;
and 1 wonder if any of them were giving themselves
an airing at the finish of the Marathon race in Mel-
bourne. It was a grievous and pitiful procession of
dead-beats. Never have 1 seen an array of athletes
so absolutely out. 'they doddered. They even gib-
bered, some of them being momentarily delirious as
a result of the prolonged and intolerable strain.
Yet, if the Wowsers were there to give their fangs
some practice, the linked misery long drawn out has
excited no protest from them, though it would take
at least 150 ordinary boxing bouts to dole out as
much suffering to participants, and create so sad-
dening a display of used-up humans.
Victorian Public Schools sports happened
at Melb. Cricket Ground iasc l> nday. Six schools
loed tne mark right through—Wesley, Scotch,
Xavier, Geelong, Melbourne Glummer and Geelong
Grammar. But Wesley and Scotch promptly cleared
right away in the point scoring, and the former
finally laid hands on the Cup, with, a score of 104
points to 95. The bright star of the meeting was
J. W. E. Adams (Wesley), a tall, well-proportioned,
under-16 boy, who smashed four records in four
starts. He did the lOOyiJs in 10 4-5, 220yds. in
24see., and 440yds. in 554, and hurled himself a
distance of 18ft. 24in., and never got on to the board
once. His leaping was really in the same class as
the open event won by J. A. Troup (Scotch), with
19ft. 9in. Last year Kelly took the high jump
with 6ft., but this year he was content to win with
sft. 7in. Troup cut out the 220,vds. in 23 2-ssec,
and Kelly ran a slashing good auarter in 514 see.
Laurence (Melb. Grammar) did 35ft. 4in. with the
161 b. shot, and Laing (Scotch) just got there from
Ivaighin (Wesley) in the 120yds. hurdles. Nichol-
son (Geelong Grammar), the dead cert., rattled the
timber in the early flights. The walkers gave a
drearv display. Walking, indeed, is a sport which
should be practised only by fat men, for the benefit
of their livers.


Dont turn upyournosr.ndo, its
Van Houten’s, the vty best /
f
w
VAN
HOUTEN’S
COCOA
So Much in
Such a little
Space
Ask your grocer for a gratis
Van Houten Novelty and free
BOOT POLISHES
OF RENOWN.
MELTONIAN
CREAM
Cannot be equalled
for renovating all
kinds of Glace Kid
Boot* and Shoe*.
(Obtainable in Black and White).
LUTETIAN
CREAM
For all kind* of
Brown Leather
Boots “Sc Shoes.
(Made in light and dark colours).
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
Made by the Manufacturers of the Celebrated
“ MELTONIAN ” BOOT POLISHES,
E. BROWN & SON, Ltd., LONDON. Eng.
A
moa
Tickles the Palate
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONET TO LEND
On Security or Freehold or Leaseholi
City or Suburban Properties, or o«i
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Government Debentures. Inscribed Stock or Treasury Sills *>/_anjr of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand sNb- AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
ud to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Dirkctors —The Hon. A. VY. Meeks. M.L.C., Chairman : Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman : Benjamin
Short Esq. : The Hon. James Burns. M.L.C. : The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.: The Horn E. E. Wincheombe, M.L.C.,
Adrian Knox. E=q.. K.C. General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece. F.1.A., Kf.A., i.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. D. W. APPERLY, Seoretaiy.
ROYAL
F§*
<x.'ctya>xr l n f v,7
EXAMPLE
is a GUARANTEE for every purchaser of Phosferine that
the tonic is the very best obtainable, embodies the highest skill,
and being the most potent remedy, benefits everyone equally
with Rovalty. The original and genuine preparation is spelt
PHOSFERINE
Honoured by
Commands from
The British
Royal Family
H.I.M. The
Empress of Russia
H.M. The
Kins: of Greece
This world-renowned restorative medi-
cine has already for many years been
supplied by
ROYAL COMMANDS
To H.I.M. the Dowager Empress of
Russia
H.M. The Queen of Spain
H.I.H. the Grand Duchess of Hesse
H.I.H. the Grand Duchess Olga of
Russia
And the Principle Royalty and
Aristocracy throughout the world
THE KING’S STATE
BARGEMASTER
m
■
Honoured by
Commands from
t T t
t + t
m
H.M. The
King of Spain
H.M. The Queen
of Roumania
The Imperial
Family of China
Mr. W. G. East, the King’s Bargemaster, writes: "Phosferine considerably increases one's
powers of muscular endurance. Since taking Phosferine I have been free from Neuralgia and
Influenza, and have a better appetite and sleep well, and taking it all round I am sure I owe
it to Phosferine that I keep so well as I do ; Phosferine is the only tonic that agrees with me.
The Greatest of all Tonics
A PROYEN REMEDY FOR
Debility
Influenza
Indigestion
Sleeplessness
Exhaustion
Neuralgia
Maternity Weakness
Premature Decay
Mental Exhaustion
Loss of Appetite
Lassitude
Neuritis
Faintness
Brain-Fag
Anaemia
Backache
Rheumatism
Headache
Hysteria
Sciatica
and disorders consequent upon a reduced state of the neryous system.
SPECIAL WARNING
Insist upon having the original and genuine Phosferine (spelt
Ph os ferine) as supplied to Royalty, and prepared only by
Ashton & Parsons, Ltd., London. Similar names and styles are
deliberate attempts to deceive the purchaser, so do not be tricked
by appearance and sound into buying worthless imitations of
PHOSFERINE
The real Phosferine is the Royal Tonic, which fact assures
users that it is highly commended by the greatest living physicians.
Refuse all imitations under names that may be confused with
the original and genuine Phosferine, prepared only by
ASHTON & PARSONS, LTD., LONDON.
The 2/6 size contains nearly four times the 1/- size.
BOOMERANG
ACCORDEONS
(NINE NEW
TYPES).
Each “Boomerang” Accordeon is the acme of Perfection;
the Reeds are hand-filed, and cost but 255., 405., and 555. Those
we specially recommend are: —
No. 105 Accordeon, “Boomerang” Brand, is of medium size,
black mouldings, two sets of wrought and hand-turned English
STEEL REEDS, invisible Fastener, NICKEL BELLOW PRO-
TECTORS, soberest workmanship, and highest quality of tone.
Price, including leatherette, case, with lock- and key, 30/-., post
free.
No. 108 Accordeon, “Bbomerang” Brand, large in size, black
polished mouldings, bellows fitted with patent nickel protectors,
encircling each individual rib of the bellows, and three inde-
pendent stops. Each Accordeon is fitted with instantaneous In-
visible Fastener, THREE full sets of highly-tempered English
STEEL REEDS, the Gem of Perfection in loudness and quality
of tone. Price, in leatherette case complete, 405., post free.
ALBERT (SI SON, 137-139 King* Street. Sydney,
WHY YOU CAN TRUST MY
FREE CIGAR
TRIAL
■
ALMOST everybody knows about my efforts
to make Cigar-smoking popular in Aus-
tralia.
My FREE CIGAR-TRIAL is this:—l’ll send
you a box of 100 DIADEMAS for 22/6 —equal, as
they are, to any 6d. Cigar on the market; really
worth £2 ss. per 100 —and you can smoke 5 or 6
of them. If they aren’t as good as any Cigar
you have ever tried, send the remainder back to
me, and I’ll refund your money in full, without
any charge for those you’ve smoked.
jhl
Now, I want to prove to
you how straight this ofleris.
You might think—“ Why
doesn't he send the box up
without any money, and let
us send the money on when
we’ve tried the 5 or 6 and
found them as good as he
says, or else return the
balance then ?”
I tell you right ofl, I’d like
to do that. Cut that would
put all the trusting on my
side —and I’ve got to make a
living.
I know nearly every man-
jack of you would act straight
to me if I did make this offer.
But you know as well as I
there are some who would
get the Cigars, and let me
whistle for the money.
I know there’d be only a
few who would do this; but
I sell my Cigars so close to
cost—cutting off all the ware-
houseman’s, traveller’s and
retailer’s profits—that these
few would cripple my scheme
altogether. That’s why I
can’t do it and give the same
Cigar value as I give to-day.
I know you’re trusting me
in sending down the mopey
before you get the Cigars.
But you’ll get the Cigars
right by return post, never
fear. You can smoke sor 6
of them, and if they’re not
as good as you expected,
you can send what are left
right back. I’ll return your money —every
penny of it, with no deduction whatever—
and even here you needn’t only take my word
for it.
I have my banking account at the Com-
mercial Bank of Australia Limited, Melbourne.
The General Manager there knows all about
me and my way of doing business. He’ll vouch
for me; and you can refer to him before you
send any order at all to me. That’s proof of my
squareness, isn’t it?
Sit down now and send me 22/6 to-day, and
I’ll forward you a box of 100 DIADEMAS —
Cigars that I promise are equal to any 6d.
Cigar sold in Australia—made from clean, long,
straight Brazilian leaf, and rolled in the finest
Java wrapper.
My Only Address is
LODIS KAUFFMAHN
34 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE
Illustrated Descriptive Booklet will be
Mailed Free to any address.
SPRING SUITINGS, in
the Latest Novelties,
now opened up..
David Braham S Co.,
TAILORS,
76 Market St., Sydney
(Next Door to Farmer’s).
Call or Write for Patterns. ,


TROUT TACKLE!
We are Australia’s LARGEST Wholesale
and Retail Fishing Tackle Distributors.
Stockists of High-Class Fishing Tackle.
RODS.
The “Perfection” Split Cane Rods, 11 feet, 3 joints, 2 tops,
steel centre, cork grip, lock joints, agate bridge and
end rings, etc. Highest quality £7/10/-.
No. 1. Split Cane Rods, 10* and 11 feet, 3 joints, 2 tops, steel
centre, cork grip, lock joints, bridge rings, etc. £5/10/-.
No. 5. Split Cane Rods, 12 feet, 3 joints, 2 tops, cork grip,
lock joints, serrated ferrules, snake rings, etc. £2/15/-.
The M.S. Split Cane Fly Rods, 10* and 11 feet, 3 joints. 2
tops, cork grip, serrated ferrules, snake rings, etc.
Splendid value £2
No. 10F. Short, Jointed Split Cane Rods, 10* feet, 5 joints,
2 tops, cork grip, welted ferrules, double brazed, 21/-.
The M.S. Guinea Greenlieart Rods, 10* and 11 feet, 3 joints,
2 tops, cork grip, snake rings, stained olive green,
splendid value 21/-.
No. 11. Split Cane Rods, 10* feet, 3 joints, 2 tops, cork
grip, welted ferrules, nickel fittings, good value .. 18/6.
For EXCELLENCE and STERLING WORTH “ SURE CATCH ” Fishing
Tackle is ABSOLUTELY UNRIVALLED, as ISTESTIFIED by the EVER
INCREASING CROWD of SATISFIED and APPRECIATIVE ANGLERS
from near and far.
Creels, Bags, Gaffs, Spinners. Casts, Fly Books and Boxes,
Flies, etc., etc., in endless variety.
REELS.
The M.S. “Perfection” Trout Reels, with tension screw and
contracted drum —a perfect reel—3 inch, 25/-,
30/- each.
The “1.X.1i.” Trout Reels, made of best aluminium, op-
tional check, large drum for quick winding, oscillating
line guard and front brake. An excellent reel:
3 inch, 25/-.; 31 inch, 27/6; SS inch, 30/- each.
The M.S. Rotary Check Reels, ebonite back, wire drum for
rapid winding—a high-class reel:
Zi inch, 13/6; 22 inch, 15/6; 3 inch, 17/6 each,
The MORE CRITICAL the ANGLER, the MORE EMPHATIC is HIS
APPRECIATION of “SURE CATCH ” FISHING TACKLE.
TROUT LINES.
“Kingfisher” Plaited Silk Lines.
Double Tapered, 30 yards, No. 2, 10/-; No. 3, 11/6 each.
Double Tapered, 40 yards, No. 1, 11/6; No. 2, 12/6; No. 3,
13/6 each.
“Perfect” Waterproof Plaited Silk Lines.
A good quality level line, made specially for us.
No. 40. 25 yards, 2/6; 30 yards, 3/- each.
No. 30. 25 yards, 3/-; 50 yards, 6/- each.
LANDING NETS.
The M.S. “Perfect” Collapsible Trout Net, highly finished.
a splendid net 17/6 each.
The “X.L.” Collapsible Net, telescopic handle, superior
quality, net and belt clip 14/6 each.
SUNDRIES.
No. 1. Cast Books, with parchment pockets 4/- each.
No. 2 Aluminium Cast Boxes, very light 2/- each.
No. 6. Japanned Eyed Ely Boxes, fitted with steel spring
clips, mounted to xylonite:
51 clips, 4/6; 85 clips, 5/6; 119 clips, 7/- each.
Spinning Head Elies 1/6 and 1/8 each.
Bouke Trout Spinners, a splendid line 9d. each.
The New Pearl Flash, an excellent bait .. 6d. and 9d. each.
Best Trout Flies, from 2/- per dozen
WE ARE RECOGNISED AS THE HOUSE
THAT SELLS THE BEST TACKLE.
Telescopic Gaffs, one and two slide..7/6, 12/6 and 17/6 each.
Best Waterproof Wading- Trousers, light make, made of
superior steamed Cashmere, all sizes in stock:
10, lOi, 11, Hi and 12 inch loot 45/- pair.
Heavier Make, all sizes 37/6 pair.
Fishing Brogues, made from good-quality leather, with
canvas uppers, all sizes 22/6 pair.
Red JLoop Tapered Gut Casts, something new in casts
which we can recommend 1/6 each.
Hercules Tapered Gut Casts, 3 yards long, 1/3 & 1/0 each.
Write for a Copy of our “AUSTRALASIAN FISHING TACKLE
CATALOGUE’’-THE BEST EVER PUBLISHED.
MICK SIMMONS LTD.,
"The Best House for ALL ANGLING REQUISITES,”
Head Distributing' Depot
Haymarket, Sydney, N.S.W.
Schute, Bell & Go.
LIMITED,
WOOL and PRODUCE BROKERS,
44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
WOOL STORES Harris Street, Pyrmont.
Sell on Commission only.
New and thoroughly up-to-
date Stores. Inspection
invited. Persona! atten-
tion a feature of the
business.
A Steadily- growing com-
pany.
PRODUCE STORES—Athlone Place.
jl
Why you should wear
99
All=wool unshrinK-
able. SocKs, Stockings,
and Underwear.
Because
they are the most comfortable -Australasian-wool we ar:
they are absolutely unshrinkable: they are English Made.
The process imparts a soft, silky finish which makes
wear SU penor to all others.
Yet cost no more than ordinary hosiery and
underwear.
2SB»'i
Aa7
Socks, Stockings, and Underwear for Men, Ladies, and Children.
In all prices. Of Men's Outfitters, Drapers, and Stores. If your
dealer does not stock "Gn-Asm" he can obtain it from his wholesale house.
In case of difficulty write for " Jason " booklet and name of nearest
Agent, to —
Jason Hosiery Co., Leicester, England.
THE LONE HAND
A Monthly Guide for everything
Australian.
6d
MDcetKarrLS
0
is the most perfect Preservative for toe Skin
and Complexion. Invaluable for the SKIN
in HOT or COLD Climates, removing all
ROUGHNESS, IRRITATION and TAN
COOLING AND REFRESHING TO THE SKIN, KEEPING IT SOFT
AS VELVET ALL THE YEAR ROUND. VERY SOOTHING IF
APPLIED AFTER SHAVING
M. BEETHAM & SON, CHELTENHAM, ENGLAND
*
1
HE
7
II
Joshua’s
Boomerang; Brandy.
Says Cheery Chofly : There’s Whisky and Polly,
And Ale, Lemonade, Rum and Shandy,
But take the straight tip, and leave all for a nip
Of Joshua’s Boomerang Brandy.
THE BEST STORIES written in Australia appear in Till
LONE HAND each month. Price Sixpence.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OB NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1908 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merßie
England, 6d. How to Gut Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tinb’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare hook by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zolas,
including Nana, ls6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Datk Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter. Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List),' Co-operative Commonwealth, 1/6.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Quadrille Call Book,
2s. Adventures of a Flirt, Is. 3d. Parlor Tricks
and Games, Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
ls2d All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Marta Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of 1 ate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is 2d post.
Equality 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted, ’sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, os. Not Guilty (Blateh-
ford) 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain for the
British, 6d. How to Read Faces. Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d Theory of Value, Is 6d. French Polishing
AND STAINING, 1/2. PHOTOGRAPHY SELF-TAUGHT, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth. Is on.
m
If
home cyclopedia
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAfN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1243 Pastes.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Hereare answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting' subjects concerning mai-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men ana
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH.-*!
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CAROS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Skcbets and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Plat Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle's
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. How TO
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Datf., Is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Eas.v, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers,, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d.
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougall Topped the score, .'c
Other Verses, Is 3d. The Gay Count, Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, os.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and mam
oth rs, all at 2s 6d each posted. Lee’s Priceless
Recipes, 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Ga\
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. ffitf 25 1 ettr#.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot—
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROM THIS ADVT.
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappiio, genuine,
is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d nose. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions of the Ring,
Is id. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. 6d. Secret
History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Decrees, New Edition, Is posted. Vest Pockf.t
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s fid post.
Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevassk’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s fid posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 3CO latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. w.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. Tiie Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy. Is post. 100 new
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 lllus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s fid posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, hy Pama,
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.


PROSTRATED BY
MAN’S THREE YEARS’ SUFFERING FROM GENERAL WEAR-
NESS, LOSS OF APPETITE, ETC., ENDED BY BILE BEANS.
It. T. RAFTER, of 4 Quarry Street, St. Peters, Sydney, says
1 1 “For three years I have been a sufferer from general weak-
ness, loss of appetite, lack of energy, listle3sness, etc., causing me
extreme lassitude and impairment of health. I was attended by two
different doctors, and both of thtam told me that I was not likely to
git any relief, as my -.ondition had become chronic.
“ One day I accidentally came across an empty Bile Bean box, and I
thereupon made up my mind to purchase a box of Bile Beans and give
them a trial. The results have proved so satisfactory that now I would
not have any other medicine. I have ueen undergoing a course of Bile
Beans for the last six months, and they have done me great good.
My general health has improved in very way, and my bodily weight
increased almost daily. In conclusion, I am extremely glad that 1
happened on Bile Beans, and you may use my statements as above for
the benefit of other sufferer
bHE STANDARD FA Nill Y MEDICINE
When the liver *3 sluggish the //hole system is upset, causing- headaches, constipation
and biliousness. Jow, Bile Beans stir up the liver to healthy action, purify the blood,
strengthen the digestive organs, and banish the cause of the many stomach disorders
which make both men and women unfit for the daily work at this season. Bile Beans end
Indigestion, constipation, biliousness, bad breath, headache, that tired feeling, lassitude,
debility and all stomach and liver complaints. Sold by all stores and chemists at
is lid. and 2s. Bd. per box (contains three times the Is. lid.).
cans
THE
QUESTION of the DAY.
The question of to-day,
of to-morrow and of
every succeeding day is
HAVE YOU USED PEARS’ SOAP ?
If you have not, you have not
done your duty by your skin and
complexion. If, on the other hand
—that is, on both hands, and on the
face, and on the skin generally—you
HAVE used PEARS, you can feel
happy, for you will have done the
best that possibly can be done tor
the skin’s health and beauty. There
can be no question about that.
PEARS has been making beautiful
complexions for nearly 120 years#
PEARS
Matchless for the Complexion.
Ballad of Jock McPhun.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HERE’S a bearded Scot that I know,
God wait, and a forthright man is he ;
And I think of him when the lights
grow dim in the lair of Smiff, M.P.
For we shipped lang syne where the winches
whine on the black Newcastle dyke;
And we met last year by a Ilobart pier, and
I’ve got the flaming spike!
By the Ganges stream goes his steel trireme
to Shem’s old pagan land,
While I earn my crust as a Pressman must
by the toil of my inky hand.
A letter is here, and my heart draws near to
the Clyde's waiun-fisted son;
And a glass shall clink, though the Smiffs
should sink, to the letter of Jock Mcßhun!
’Tis a line or two from a Scotchman true —
thez-e’s a swift, scrawled word to say:
“VVe are carting jute for our monthly loot
’twixt Bristol and Bombay!
Are ye still a scribe for the feckless tribe
that wrestle with sport and beer?
Will ye not come back to the ocean-tr" He —
ye were meant for an engineer!
Are ye toiling still in the longshore mill with
your slaveliug’s ink and pen,
When ye might be free from the fool M.P.,
and along with the Glasgie men?
Will ye ne’er return to the sea, and earn your
bread as ye should have done;
There’s a job that waits —will ye leave your
mates, and yakker with Jock McPhun?
“We are steaming south from the Hoogly’s
mouth when we’re done with the flaming
jute;
Will ye sit ye down in the jawful town, or
toil for a greaser’s loot?
Do ye mind lang syne when ye spilt red
wine in the cui’sing Dago’s face ;
When ye broke the back o’ the Dago pack,
and littered the bawdy place?
Do ye keep yon curl of the black-eyed girl
ye knew by the Plata shore;
Is her ribbon lost that ye used to toast when
we drank in the nights of yore?
Do ye not regret ye have left the sweat and
the steam where the engines run?
Will ye not admit ye would rather sit with
the pagan Jock McPhun?
“Do ye mind the night o’ the Cardiff fight—
ye wei’e wild and sinful then;
Now ye waste your fist and your iron wrist
with traffic of paste and pen!
Ye were born to toil with spanner and oil —
to tend to the whirling screws;
Now ye sit and write like a clerkling wight,
and dicker with cabled news!
Ye’re a hireling slave, and ye’re staid and
grave as ye toil in your inky den;
Will ye no idse up from your longshore cup,
and turn to the ti’ade of men?
Will ye not come back to your heathen Mac
—will ye not l’eturn, my son;
Ye were born to graft by the gland and
shaft—come back to your Jock
McPhun!”
And I know, God wot. that the bearded Scot
is the man I wish to see;
And I think of him when the lights grow dim
o’er the blai’e of Smiff, M.P.!
For we met last year by the Hobart pier—
and I wish my fist might strike
In the palm of Jock where the winches rock
on the black Newcastle dyke!
Shall his tramp-ship steam by the Derwent
stream, or lie by the Sydney Quay?
the Speaker nods) and the piston-rods
ring deep to the soul of me!
His letter is here —let him soon draw near!
To the shaggy Glasgie son
Lo, a glass shall clink, for I rise and drink
to the Coming of Jock McPhun!
victoria.
GRANT HERVEY.
Tent and Camp.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THERE are numbers of men knocking
ai-ound -who would not exchange their
humble and diminutive tent for a
tuckpointed villa, or a mansion; there are
others, living discontentedly in houses,
who would gladly exchange for the tent; and
there are those again who dispense with
oven that much covering, preferring the open
air. Drovers and non-commissioned travel-
lers, who carry tents, seldom erect them ex-
cept on wet or dewy nights. They spread
them underneath, instead of overhead. Jimmy
Tyson, the squatter king, though he hob-
nobbed with the best, loved his quart pot
and his tent to the last. People called him
mean because he would boil his quart on the
bank of a creek within coo-ee of a wayside
pub; but they do not understand the hold
the bush gets on a man, and the fascination
there is in tent life.
To such men as Tyson, the camp-fire is
more homely and cheerful than a gas stove;
their beds of grass or gum leaves, laid on
the ground and covered with a rug, more
comfortable than a spring mattress; and the
tea made in a billycan and drunk out of a
ipannikin is incomparable to any that is
poured from a teapot into china cups. I
remember an old tent-dweller who once
treated himself to a Melbourne Cup trip,
nnd, getting into a fairly-good hotel, dis-
covered the first spring mattress he had ever
seen. He had always vegetated in the far-
out bark and sapling architectural districts,
lying on beds that didn’t “give” under him.
When he got back, he told his mates that
they had given him a wire fence, laid side-
ways, to sleep on, but he had pulled the
-clothes off the concern and slept on the floor.
The tent is certainlj clean, and there is
no doubt about the life one leads therein
being healthy. It is the quickest and handi-
est sort of dwelling to erect, the cheapest,
and the easiest to keep in repair; you can
•carry it about with you and put it up any-
where in a few minutes —unless you are a
travelling circus. Further, you haven’t to
buy or lease the ground, as you do when you
build a house; you stick tne bit of canvas
up without so much as inquiring who owns
the tei’ritory.
The most common size in use is the 6 x 8.
The miner's tent is usually 8 x 10, and has a
fly over it. That of the bushworker or con-
tractor, particularly if he has a wife with
him, is lai-ge and heavy. It is secured at
the sides with ropes to heavy horizontal
poles, and lias a two-feet wall, which drops
vertically from the rope line, and is pegged
"to the ground. Travellers never use this
kind of rigging. A fly is stretched over a
second pole above it; and sometimes there
is a lining, made of bags sewn together, in-
side the tent. This ensures warmth in win-
ter and coolness in summer. A trench is
dug round three sides to run the water off,
and to prevent the wash from higher ground
flooding the interior. The fire is under a
rough frame covered with bark, and the din-
ing hall is simply a big fly or tarpaulin, open,
all round, with a long table down the centre,
and saplings at the sides for seats. Out
west, where there is not much wet weather,
such places are generally roofed with boughs
or cane grass. Many tents are walled in
with bushes, the wall lapping in front so as
to leave an entrance passage. This is neces-
sary where there is much wind. Elsewhere,
the wall is not advisable.
The furniture is made on the spot-—and is
mostly left in the same place when the
owner shifts. For stretcher, two poles are
thrust through a couple of bags, end on, and
laid on forks a foot or so off the ground.
Some merely lay the poles on the ground,
and fill the space between with leaves or
grass. This is not a safe bunk in snake
country; it also harbors centipedes, scor-
pions and other undesirable immigrants.
No one goes to the trouble of cutting poles
for a temporaz-y camp; an armful of grass
for a hipper suffices for most people. Four
stakes and a squai’e piece of bark complete
the table. The usual light is a slush lamp.
When a candle is used, it is held between
three upright nails on one corner of the
table, or in a slit at the top of a stake, or in
a jam-tin partly filled with sand. There is
plenty of variety in candlesticks. On windy
nights the candle is covei’ed with a glass
bottle, the bottom of which has been evenly
taken off. Many travellers are provided
with a yard or two of mosquito-netting,
which is drawn over two looped wires to
pi-otect the face. Others are content to
burn cowdung. This necessitates the gather-
ing of supplies every evening, and the heap
at the tent door is unsightly. The average
camper is particular about the look of nis
premises. I saw one tent on the Paroo
which had a length of mosquito-netting but-
toning across the front, so as to allow the
flaps to be turned back. This made the place
cool in summer, and excluded all trouble-
some insects —not the least annoying of
which are beetles and flying ants. I never
saw but one tent-dweller in a hammock, and
not more than half a dozen who were en-
cumbered with air mattresses and air pil-
lows. The hammock is easily carried, and
may, on a pinch, be used as a fishing-net;
but it is not easily rigged, and is anything
but comfortable.
Old stagers exercise considerable care in
the choosing of a camp site. They will never
pitch a tent within reach of a dead tree, or
against a log. Tney note the lean of green
trees, and scrutinise limbs from which dan-
ger may be expected in stormy weather.
Stumps and driftwood are also avoided, as
they are favored by snakes; so also is a
dinted surface, whei'e water is likely to col-
lect. The troublesome black ant, the elec-
trifying jumper, the greenhead and the pug-
nacious bulldog have likewise to be con-
sidered. There are spots absolutely free
from ants, whilst places within a few yards
around are swarming. Other spots, again,
are traversed by highways and branch tracks
regularly used by ants in their comings and
goings. In such places the camper is care-
ful not to thi-ow any scraps about that
would draw Solomon’s favorite insect to the
tent. These matters are quickly noticed by
the experienced eye, and the site of the prim-
itive habitation chosen accordingly.
At many favored spots, little canvas vil-
lages spring up, mushroom-like, in a night,
glisten like huge snowballs for a time in the
sun, then disappear, leaving nothing but ash
heaps behind. Along the banks of the Dar-
ling, Murrumbidgee, Lachlan, Bogan and
Barwon rivers, and westward along the
Maranoa and Warrego, and on the shores
of Bulloo lake, the tent-dwellers make their
homes when out of work, and when condi-
tions militate against travelling. Fish are
plentiful, and game fairly abundant. Dur-
ing the hot months these campers make a
prolonged stay, mostly leading a lazy, idle
life. The majority break camp periodically,
as at shearing time, and may be working or
wandering for nine months in the year. On
returning, they usually make for the old
spot, dig up their home effects, which have
been buided under a tree, and resume the
old routine. This is home. Many of them
never leave the rivers, mei-ely tramping up
one side and down the othei 1 , like Bogan
Dan, and make a living by cutting out pipes,
“snobbing,” tinkering, mending umbrellas,
making waterbags, carving emu eggs, polish-
ing bullocks’ horns, plaiting whips and
bridles, and following many other trades
that can be carried on under canvas. On
the Paroo I encountered a well-educated
Pole who tuned pianos. It amused other
travellers to see him dressing in his tent
preparatory to going up to the homestead
to inquire about the health of the family in-
strument. He came out in faultless style,
and with a leather bag in his hand. When
moving, he was dressed like an ordinary
battler, swinging a black billycan in place of
a handbag. He did very well, too.
Between the tent and an average dwell-
ing house there is a long list of humpies and
hovels, gunyahs, mia-mias, canvas and gal-
vanised-iron habitations, hessian and bark
huts, in which the freedom and ruggedness
of tent-life is observable, though, as a rule,
they are not as clean and healthy. Any of
them is acceptable as a home to the majority
of those who lead a rough and wandering
life: but there are many Ishmaels, long used
to camping out with only their share of the
sky for roof, who will not avail themselyes
of any such shelter, even when opportunity
offers. Drovers, musterers and swagmen
may often be seen sleeping in the open
around an empty hut. Others, again, with
whom the cloister of white canvas has
become second nature, eschew the. huts as
unclean, and likely to contain vermin or the
germs of disease. I have seen these men,
when they have been working on stations,
erect their customary six-by-eights by the
side of the men’s hut, though the latter was
well-built and comfortable. On one occasion
I saw a man rig his tent inside a hut, though
what he did it for only himself knew —un-
less, as I have said, the canvas had become
inseparable from his idea of home. I re-
member once, when doing a journey across
Queensland from east to west, I camped
every night for weeks at a waterhole, or by
some watei’course, and made my fire under a
tree. One night I was unable to reach any
such place, and I felt lonely and miserable.
(Continued on nexi pa'/e.J


IT IS A MATTER
OF FACT
That Backache, Rheumatism, Gout, Neu-
ralgia, Bladder Troubles, Stone, Gravel,
Lumbago, Sciatica, Nervousness, Dizzi-
ness are caused by Diseased Kidneys.
Many men and
women look uponsuch
symptoms as back-
ache, dizziness, head-
ache, dimness of sight,
urinary disorders,
gravel, swellieg of the
limbs, rheumatism,
sleeplessness, ner-
vousness and neural-
gic pains as trifling
complaints But no
symptom of kidney
disorder is trifling, for
it shows that the kid-
neys are failing to
filter the poisonous
uric acid from the
blood, and this is the
beginning of most
diseases. At the first
sign of kidney dis-
order, begin with
Doan’s Backache Kid-
ney Bills, the great
kidney medicine.
Doan’s Bills cure
every form of kidney
Pi
<;t
v
3
!/
'i
r 2
Is
i
Story.
&
K
KT-JRBtTRSEg
trouble, because they are a special medicine for the kidneys.
Sydney Man’s Cure.
Mr. John Loaney, 20 Swanston Street, Erskineville, states: “Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills have cured me of very serious kidney disease. My ill-health com-
menced three years ago, when I had first to lay up. I had terrible pains in my
back and right side, and my secretions scalded, and were thick and contained sedi-
mentary matter. I also had fits of giddiness, and every day I would have a vio-
lent headache. For two years I spent an average of two weeks out of every three
in bed, and even when up I was very ill. I was very weak, and fell away. I had
the best medical advice and treatment to be procured : ten leading Sydney phy-
sicians treated me in the three years of my illness ; their bills totalled £ ISO. The
general idea was that I suffered with stone in the kidneys, and I was constantly
advised to undergo an operation. At last a specialist put me under the X-rays. He
found no foreign substance in the kidneys, but a dark veil enveloped the right kid-
ney, showing pronounced disease. I gave up all hope of recovery, and fully ex-
pected to die soon, and my friends were of the same opinion. My lawyer wa,s
brought home, and made out my will. I was held up to sign it. Not long after
this I was advised to use Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. The man who urged me
to give this remedy a trial had been cured by it, and had the utmost faith in its
healing properties. One could not but be convinced that he was in thorough earn-
est, so I sent for a supply to Ellis’ Pharmacy, Erskineville. I used nine bottles, and
was cured. I felt no good effect until I was using the third bottle ; but after that
my recovery was gradual. I might mention that an operation, which had been
suggested, was to cost £6O. My cure by Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cost me less
than 30s. If I had used these pills when I first got ill, I would be considerably over
£2OO richer to-day.”
Four years later Mrs. Loaney says : —“I am pleased to be able to say now that
my husband is still free of kidney trouble, and has been for the past four years. In
fact, he was never better in his life, and is without ache or pain. I think his cure
is marvellous, for he is 77.”
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers at
2s. 9d. per bottle (six bottles 15s. 3d.), or will be posted on receipt of price by
Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
WSL
BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS
PILES.
A LASTING CURE BY
DOAN’S OINTMENT.
Mr. Geo. Risby, grocery store, corner Hunter and O'Connell Streets, Parra-
matta says:—“For some considerable time I suffered from itching and protruding
piles. Day and night I got no ease. I could not sleep for the pain and irritation,
and during the day I was worn out for want of sleep, i was tortured with this ail-
ment, and I used so many remedies without getting relief that I thought 1 would
never get better. However, I had the good fortune to get Doan s Ointment, and
this was the beginning of the end of my torture. lhe first application gave me
ease and two pots cured me absolutely and completely. 1 let some time go by be-
fore’writing you, to be quite sure my cure was permanent. It is now six months
since I used Doan's Ointment, and I am still well. ; so can safely say Doans Oint-
ment has cured me of itching and protruding piles.'
Two years later Mrs. Risby says : “M- husband has had no return of the I lies.
We are very grateful to Doan’s Ointment for his cure.
DOAN’S OINTMENT is sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers at 2/9 per pot.
Another night I had no matches to make a
fire, and experienced the same feelings. A
fire and a waterhole, and a bit of loose sky
for roof, and the edge of the Northern Terri-
tory to keep the wind off had become home
to me, and without them I felt as the Sove-
reign might do if he had to put up in a
hotel owing to the palace having been burned
down.
The tentless swagman at times has to
make queer shifts on wet nights. I once shared
a hollow log with a dingo—but neither of us
had any sleep. We were too interested
in watching each other. On another night I
slept in the hollow of a tree, and in the
morning, as I rolled my things up, I noticed
a big black snake crawling out of the roof
to sun himself. I made a detour round my
fellow boarder.
When once you have been scared by
snakes, you live in dread of them. Bushmen
tell you that snakes wander on hot nights,
and that your fire attracts them. They
travel for miles before a dust-storm; and so,
when a dust-storm is coming, you lie expec-
tant. Every crooked stick resembles a rep-
tile, and if you look at it by the firelight, it
seems to dance and to wriggle. That sort
of thing gets on your nerves, and makes
camping out exciting. I travelled with one
man who made it a rule to gather up every
little stick before dark. Said he had killed
two or three dry sticks that summer, and
didn’t want to be making a fool of himself
any more. It lowered his dignity.
When a storm finds you in thick timber,
you are forced to take violent exercise dodg-
ing falling branches and limbs. Many a
camp has been smashed by a tree blown down
by the hurricane; and many a man, too, has
been pinned under one. Such recollections
always crop up at these times, and you peer
anxiously around, while a stream of water
trickles down your spine to keep you cool.
When the storm has passed, you find that
most of your things are wet, and you have
an uncomfortable damp nap for the night.
You- have also callers —all sorts of crawl-
some things come in unannounced, looking
for dry lodgings.
One evening, when I was on an out-of-the-
way track, and without a tent, I found an
old blackfellow trying to fix up a camp, as a
storm was coming on. I helped him, there
being no other shelter. Two sheets of bark
were placed against, a stump, and the end
blocked with boughs. We put in the night
there. He snored on one side of the stump,
I had insomnia on the other side. Nine
dogs scratched fleas between us. One dog
had a lump in liis throat, and made you feel
as if you wanted to cough to ease him. An-
other had no hair, and whined continually
with cold. But the worst of all was a wall-
eyed brindle which had nightmare. I never
saw a living thing have so many nightmares
on end. Every time that he yelped, all the
others would start up and yelp, too. Then
one brute fossicked out a lizard, and the
whole pack chased it round and round the
stump. They caught it at last, and worried
it until, being a brittle lizard, it broke up
badly; and presently the nine of the curs
were wrestling with nine pieces all over old
Murri. And such a commotion he made!
After awhile they got round to my side.
Two serviceable bluchers met them, and set
them fighting in half a dozen places. Down
came the caboose, and then it was pandemon-
ium ! I never thought an aged blackfellow
had such lungs, or that dogs could yowl so. I
rolled up, and precipitated myself into the
dawn and dampness.
Camping out, when you are careful in the
selection of your scenery, weather and other
circumstances is all right. To be a
healthy, happy millionaire in a tent under
ideal conditions has been the great desire of
my life.
EDWARD S. SORENSON.
Sunset on the Yarra.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
‘ I X RAM it!” moaned Reggie. “Where
W are you going to, Claude? Ai say,
where are you going to, dram it?”
“Aw —language !” protested Claude.
“ ‘Dram it,’ I said. Let’s get ashore.
We’ve had enough o’ the blessed river for
one day. Let’s get ashore!”
“Aw —no!” Claude had the oars.
“We’ll row down a bit in the cool. No
hurry !”
It was a fat, family row-boat. Mirabel
sat opposite Claude in the stern, and smiled
at him every second minute. Reggie, crowded
in the bows with Ethel, had had a disagree-
ment with that lovely girl. The trouble had
taken place during the afternoon tea ad-
journment, and the sun had set for Reggie,
although the real sun was only just disap-
pearing into the west. The party had
reached and passed the Ivew sheds on the
return trip, and Reggie’s evening appetite
had by now begun to obliterate his heart-
ache. , ,
“Ai say, Claude, let’s get ashore! I hey 11
be thinking we’re —you know, drowned, or
something. Let’s get ashore.”
Reggie caught Claude by the shoulder, and
shook him. Claude caught a small crab, and
turned furiously on the shaker.
“Aw —y’ want to upset the show?” he
demanded. “We’ll row down the river a bit,
in the cool. Won’t we, Mirrie?”
“Love to,” purred Mirabel, and smiled
again.
“/ don’t mind,” breathed, Ethel.
“There y’ are!” growled Claude, and re-
sumed his languid stroke.
Reggie was wearing a high collar. He
bumped impatiently upon the seat, and mur-
mured to himself.
By drifting and propulsion, the boat cov-
ered’ a double curve of the sylvan Tarra
reaches. Reggie pulled out Lis watch.
“Mai godfather!” he wheezed sepulclirally,
“look at the time!”
“Aw —-I say, language !” warned Claude.
“Well, let’s get ashore !” There was a hint
of blackmail in the demand.
“P’r’aps we’d better,’ sighed Mirabel.
“Aw!” Claude was speechless for the
moment. He ceased rowin''-, and presentlv
pulled one oar, still languidly. “Aw —we’ll
go back and row up and down near the
sheds. Moon’ll be up presently.”
Thev came to the sheds. True to his
word, Claude made no attempt to land, but
kept on up-stream for a hundred yards.
Then he turned and rowed back again.
“Going to be a lovely evening.” chirped
Mirabel. “It gets dark very slowly in the
summer-time.”
“Helen —•!” muttered Reggie, and began to
unlace his right boot.
“Aw —wliat’s that?” Claude asked sharply,
glancing over his shoulder.
Reggie answered nothing, but unlaced his
other boot, and held the pair over between
Claude and Mirabel.
“See that?” he hissed.
“Aw—don’t be a goat, Reg.!” urged
Claude. “What’s the game?”
“Game?” snapped Reggie. “No game!
Ai’m going to swim ashore! That’s all!”
He flung his boots to the bottom of the
boat, in front of Claude.
For the first time, the oarsman burst into
a shriek of laughter.
In reply, Reggie threw his coat after the
boots. His vest followed.
“Aw —here, what’re y’ up to, Reg?”
Claude’s voice had something of consterna-
tion in it.
“Up to?” quivered Reggie in a deep voice.
“Up to? I’m going ashore —that’s all!”
They were in mid-stream opposite the
sheds. Over against them, on the other bank
of the river, a stretch of gums cast a broad
shadow upon the sun-crimsoned water. It
was a gorgeous, peaceful evening.
Claude watched Reggie furtively with one
eye.
“A man can’t swim ashore with his clothes
on, can he?” muttered Reggie, in the self-
communing whisper of a madman, pulling
his tie away from his collar. The collar
came next, and Reggie carefully put the
studs into a trousers pocket. It was when
he began fumbling at the middle breast-
button of his shirt that Claude gave way.
“Aw —aw right, then, if you’re going to
be such a blessed nark!” he laughed scorn-
fully, “we’ll blessed well go ashore ! We’ll
go ashore!”
With his feet carefully planted by design
on Reggie’s boots, Claude pulled for the
sheds with some alacrity, and Reggie began
sulkily to resume his collar and tie. By the
time the boat’s nose touched the stage-planks,
Reggie had only worried one stud into place.
Claude bent down and fiddled with some-
thing in the half-darkness, and then
straightened himself. The boat-owner came
down and held the painter.
Claude helped the two girls out, while, in
haste, Reggie roughly knotted his tie, and
reached for his other clothes.
Claude and the girls were a dozen yards
up the bank.
“Hai!” demanded Reggie, groping eagerly
in the bottom of the boat. “Ai say, Claude,
where’s mai boots?”
“Aw —come on!” giggled Claude, grabbing
each girl by an elbow, and hurrying them up
the rise among the gums. “There, go on !”
He gave them each a push, and turned, and
shouted with his hand to his mouth.
“Y’ll find y’ booce in the dashed river, y’
silly cow!” And then he turned again and
fled after the girls, while a murderous silence
surrounded the stricken figure that swayed
in the boat below.
FRANK HENTY.
Margaret.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
(-yOUL of my soul, I did but have and
\ hold
For one short hour a costly living
pearl,
Set in a treasure of pure-hearted gold,
And all the worlds are homeless while I miss
The warm, clear laughter of one dark-eyed
girl.
In the immeasurable sum of things
I float as floats a feather down the wind,
Hearing a beating as of waves and wings,
And murmurs of an elemental tide,
Far swaying to the thought of cosmic mind.
The colored marbles of this universe
Spin on through countless sunsets. Balls of
flame
Play with their lustrous shadows through the
stress
Of timeless ages and forgetful days,
And no star knows who makes or mars the
game.
Shrouded in words are all the worlds and
ways,
Paths in the endless woods of arching-
thought,
Where lost imagination vainly strays
Under tall branches, and the yellow sun
Seems but a fancy in green meshes caught.
There is no height of vision to be won,
No open place beyond the boles and leaves.
But every way the shadowy mazes run
With never hint of ending till the night
A solemn curtain of deep darkness weaves.
And if beyond the blackness there be light
Of clearer stars, or but the utter peace
Where words fall meaningless and thought
and sight
Droop wearied wings forever, who can tell?
The play goes on whether we dream or cease.
The play goes on. Vast tides in ebb and
swell
Draw light and force to world shores darkly
known.
Flotsam and jetsam tremble like the shell
Tossed white at midnight on the sandy shore,
When all the grasses of the dunes are blown.
What winds between the worlds a white soul
bore,
Bent like a lily in the soundless deep,
To cast in stranger meadows? Never wore
This world so fair a blossom on her heart
As that frail sweetness that she could not
keep.
For her I hold the curtained dark apart,
As I would hang upon the knees of God,
And force his eyes to answer. Echoes start
From the astonished silence, and 1 fall,
Blinded, from ways no foot of man has trod.
Down the dark steep I hear an angel call:
“Seek not to follow, ’tis enough for thee
To hold the sweetness of an hour in thrall.”
And rippling to my feet I feel the flow
Of the sun-cherished, hungry-hearted sea.
The rose and all her sisters richly grow
On summer-fondled stems. The magic fire
Of dawn and evening sets the world aglow.
The noon has played the spendthrift with his
gold.
But all their splendors match not my desire.
In conquering dreams my empty hand can
hold
The universal glory as a pearl.
Costlv beyond the gift of singers old
Who swayed imperial strings, yet, holding,
miss
The living laughter of one dark-eyed girl
N.S.W.
DAVID MCKEE WRIGHT.


The
Oil Engine
For STATIONARY
and MARINE
PURPOSES
No
Carburetter
or
Vaporiser.
jl
Ignition
makes the following claims upon your attention :
r—lt uses cheap lamp oil (such as kerosene), and other residuals.
2 The oil is injected directly into the cylinder, thus dispensing with unre-
liable and inefficient vaporisers.
3 It is very simple in construction, there being no electric ignition or other
complicated mechanism.
4 Its speeds are such that electric generators and centrifugal pumps may
be coupled direct.
5 No skilled labor is required, the supply of fuel and lubricant being all
the attention necessary.
FULL PARTICULARS FROM
The Westinghouse Brake Company of Australasia Ltd.,
14 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Queensland Agents: Holmes & Church, Brisbane.
jl
Live in Comfort
in tHe Hot Weather
IT COSTS VERY LITTLE FOR OUR FANS.
THEY RUN FOR SEVERAL HOURS for Id.
W. G. WATSON 8 CO., LTD.,
171 Clarence St.,
SYDNEI
THE LARGEST PLANT—WELL ORGANISED !
In every phase of removal and carrying work, we are experts.
We have spacious storage accommodation, large vans, and small carts
manned by experienced men. We c m save YOU time, trouble and
money. May we send you a quote ? ’Phone City 1290.
SANDERS, SUTTON & WHITEHEAD LTD.,
Removal, Storage and Carrying Experts,
HEAD OFFICE— 43 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
DEPOTS: Chatswood, Mosman, Waverley, Burwood, Dulwich Hilt
Kogarah, Parramatta and Manly.
jh
jlj
hlj
ĵl
j
ĵl
Guaranteed 2 Years.
j
This is our 2-h.p.
Hand Portable Engine.
OIL
ENGINE
Otto Four Cycle Type.
WE ARE THE ONLY FIRM ADVERTISING
OUR PRICES OPENLY.
Don’t be misled by competitors who offer “lowest prices and long terms.”
No one can sell an engine of equal quality under DOUBLE OUR PRICES
Get prices and compare them with ours. We have an immense sale’
and this allows of small profits on our big turnover.
2-h.p. Stationary, £25 ,* Portable, £32
All complete, with Tanks and Pipes, f.o.b.
Sydney, You have no fittings to buy—
Everything is supplied by us.
Small Deposit.
Lonfi Terms.
Write for Catalogues and full particulars of All Kinds of Oil Engines,
Pumping, Chaffcutting, and all other Classes of Machinery.
PARTRIDGE & HODGSON,
555.,49 YORK STREET, SYDNEY; 339 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
r PHE BEST STORIES written in Australia
appear in The Lone Hand each month,
rrice sixpence.
BOOKS WORTH READING. The new
ginde to the new fiction appears in each
issue of The Lone Hand.
As A Family Medicine
nothing has yet been put before the public to be compared with Beecham’s
Pills. For over half a century this medicine has been an easy First Favourite
in countless households, and the name and fame of Beecham’s Pills have
spread all over the world. The reason for the enormous popularity of this
remedy is not far to seek. Experience has shown that there is nothing better
for derangements of the sbomach and digestive organs generally. Taken in
accordance with directions, Beecham’s Pills give quick relief, stimulate the
organs to healthy action and have a tonic effect upon the whole system
They are compounded of the best and purest ingredients and there are very
few people who would not feel better for an occasional dose of
Beecbam’s Pills
If you have not tried them and have any doubt as to their real value and
efficacy, get a box and judge for yourself. You will find Beecham’s Pills a
valuable aperient and unequalled in regulating the stomach, bowels, liver,
and kidneys, and restoring the powers of digestion. A periodical dose will
enable you to keep well and "fit,” ready for work or play. By eliminating
impurities from the system, Beecham’s Pills increase the appetite, promote
assimilation of food and establish good health. No household should ever
be without a box. Many thousands have proved the worth of Beecham’s Pills
and there is no doubt at all that they
Are Tbe Favourite Remedy.
BUSINESS MEN and OTHERS in need of FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE
BHOUI.D CONSULT
CITY FINANCE COMPANY LIMITED,
Palmer’s Chambers, 289 Pitt St., Sydney,
who LEND MONEY on any REASONABLE SECURITY
from 10 PER CENT, per annum. frfd. McWilliam. Manager.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s/English Ale. Club Rum.
Dog: Head Stout. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
The
Great
Def enc? ?r.
Hearne’s
Bronchitis
Cure.
_ /inMl.
+2
v
HP
gs.
sS
<V
=L~!
C.-Z='
I *3
X\
e
AST'iMA
COL 05
•s
o on s
SORE
THROAT*
fill
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its splendid
healing power. Sufferers from Bronchitis, Cough, Croup, Asthma,
Hoarseness, Difficulty of Breathing, Pain or Soreness in the
experience delightful and rapid relief, and to those who are subject
to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a complete cure.
It is most comforting in allaying Irritation in the Throat and giving
Strength to the Voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to
become chronic nor Consumption to develop. Consumption is not
known where Coughs have, on their first appearance, been
properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without
it, as taken at the beginning, a dose or two is generally sufficient,
and a complete cure is certain.
Sold by all Chemists and Medicine Vendors.


ARCHITECTS specify
Mack Partitions
and have a Fire-Proof,
Sound-Proof
and Vermin-Proof
DIVIDING WALL.
Write for our Catalogue, or call and inspect.
MACK LTD.,
Royal Insurance Buildings,
Cor. PITT and SPRING STREETS, SYDNEY.
Melbourne Office: 19 Queen Street.
Willans & Robinson, Limited,
For . . .
Electrical Generators,
Blowers, Fans,
etc., etc.
A%t
For. ..
High Pressure
and
Mixed Pressure Steam.
AUSTRALIAN
AGENCY:
X
* •
K. STEANES, 39 Pitt Street, Sydney. [3
Fireproof Buildings of
Fihro-Cement (Asbestos) Sheets
at the cost of Weatherboards.
Suitable for Dwellings, Theatres, Halls,
Warehouses, etc.
Timber is dear,'so is labor. You only require about
three-fourths the quantity of studding and labor for a
building of Fibro-Cement.
LOOK AT THE SAVING THAT IS MADE.
Fibro-Cetnent is made of best Portland cement reinforced
with Asbestos.
FIRE, HEAT, ROT and ANT PROOF.
Easily erected by ordinary carpenter. Outlasts timber
iron, or lath and plaster.
CONSTANTLY IMPROVES WITH LAPSE OF TIME.
Supplied also in Slates for roofing.
Write for Lithos and Catalog L to sole importers-
JAMES HARDIE & CO.,
Circular Quay West, Sydney.
WOLFE’S
The Family Stimulant.
FOR MEN
FOR WOMEN
SCHNAPPS
ljl
“McINNES DOBBIE” INBIGATBRS
For Steam, Oil or Gas Engines and Ammonia Compressors.
The Most Extensively Used Indicator on the Market. LARGE STOCK OF INDICATORS and ACCESSORIES CARRIED.
SELLERS’ PATENT PORTABLE DYNAMOMETERS
-i~ ce -. ai ” in^ B r ake Honu-pow of
Steam, Oil or Gas Engines and Electric Motors.
J. WIIDRIDGE 8 SIN
BBBHB
WBmKmmKM
Prell’s Buildings, Melbourne.
228 Elizabeth St., Brisbane.
ENGINEERS,
IRON FOUNDERS,
BOILER MAKERS,
&Cij &Cm
PHAN FERGUSON
PROPRIETARY LIMITED.
Governing Directors
(MEPHAN FERGUSON
Irobert SHAND
Head Office and Works:
Gordon St., Footscray, Victoria.
Manufacturers of
WROUGHT IRON,
CAST IRON, and
STEEL PIPES.
VERETT
Voltmeters
Edgcumbe
REMIER ACCUMULATORS
LECTRIC
LEVATORS.
Push Button
WARBURTON,
FRANKI, LTD.,
307-11 Kent Street,
SYDNEY.
454 Flinders Street,
MELBOURNE.
IMPROVED
mm
m
J 88»
Adapted for All Services.
Exhausting Refuse from Woodworking Plants.
Ventilating Factories and Public Buildings.
Mine Ventilation .
Forced and induced Draft for Boilers.
Supplying Blast to Cupolas, Furnaces and Forges.
Exhausting
Smoke and Fumes, etc .
FULL INFORMATION and PRICES
ON A PPUCA TION.
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD..
Engineers and Machinery Merchants, 60 Clarence St., SYDNEY. N.S.W.
* - *-■
RICHARDS PULSATOR CLASSIFIER
Made in Two Sizes. Capacities 90 to 170 tons per 24 hours.
For Classifying 1 all classes of Mineral Pulp.
SMALL FLOOR SPACE, SMALL H.P., SMALL HEAD ROOM.
With a Richards Classifier 6 distinct products can be obtained.
SEND FOR PARTICULARS AND COPY OF TESTIMONIALS.
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD.,
Sole
Agents,
263 George Street, Sydney.
525 Collins Street, Melbourne.
hjl
