

R. 6. WATKINS «SC CO.,
107 Kent street, Sydney,
—FOR—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYB AVAILABLE.
Sikkim, &• & M-
Herbert’s Capstan
and Turret Lathes.
Save Labor. Increase Output.
535 Kent Street, Sydney*
AND
486 Collins Street, Melbourne.
S.A. Agent: C. C. DELAND, Bowman’s Bldgs., Adelaide.
*|9)oy)uauOsjia|pey
■ ' —awe —-
PIONEER
LEATHER BELTING *>■
Guaranteed. ■
</. C. Ludowioi <& Son, Ld.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
*
Take it back.
I must have
HUTTON’S
HAMS S
BACON.
CHUBB’S SAFES
with PATENT ASBESTOS INNER DOORS.
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets is
recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the diges-
tive organs.
HANSENS
J
For INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially-prepared Tablets acts tnof 1
beneficially when taken daily after meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
QMsa, ouUb. (frajj&A/ 6s tfdLs
v *JCo t&Js fetvuXZf GUUCL JCUOiJcusji/ij "Glita •
'>V V
%
Money advanced upon all Securities at Reasonable
Rates of Interest.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
THIS COMPANY WAS FORMED TO SUPPRESS USURY.
And at MELBOURNE, BRISBANE and NEWCASTLE.
DRINK
THe Roofing' that Means Protection and Comfort
MALTHOID
Essentially Different to Roofings which only Outwardly Look Like It
THE PARAFFINE PAINT COMPANY, CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.—D. S. EVANS, Australasian Manager.
HOPPER WAGGONS.
ROAD-MAKING PLANTS
A SPECIALTY.
THD CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY U?
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY U°
Locomotive Builders,
General, Mining and
Agricultural
Engineers.
Bridge Builders.
LI DON SPA WATE
The wonderful efficacy of HELIDON SPA \
lies in its capacity for rapid absorption. J
DEWHURST
8 HALLORAN, Ltd..
Agents.
The Bulletin
Vol. 32.—N0. 1634.]
[Thursday, June 8, 1911.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Posto as a Newspaper.


NEW BOOKS AND NEW SUPPLIES.
Shaw, Bernard : Man and Superman, 6d, p. Bd. [p. 2sBd.
McCarthy, J-: History of ®ur Own Times, vol. 4,2 s 6d,
Bremont, C.: Oscar Wilde and His Mother, Ss, p. 3s 3d.
Hawker, G.: Twenty-Five Years in Tropical Africa, 6s,
Billingand Walker : Meat and Food Inspector’s Examina-
tion, 4s, posted 4s 3d. , .
Truths Investigator : Great Oil Octopus, 6s, p. 6s 4d.
Brookfield, O.: Random Reminiscences, Is 3d, p. Is 4d.
Martin, (?.: Wonders of Modern Chemistry, 9sj p. 9s 4d.
Petrie, W. M. F. : Revolutions of Civilisations, 3s,
posted 3s 2d.
Constable, F. C.: Personality and Telepathy, 9s, p. 9s 4d.
Benson, A. C.: Ruskinia: A Study in Personality, 9s,
posted 9s sd.
Hodgson, J. E.: Dredging of Gold Placers, 6s, p. 6s 4d.
Just Published : A New List of Boohs o n Agriculture, Dairying, Horses, Cattle, Sheep, Pigs, etc.,
Sent Free to Any Address.
ROBERTSON’S, BOOKSELLERS, 238 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
HUDSON’S
“EUMENTHOL JUJUBES.”
The Great Antiseptic and Prophylactic,
contains no cocaine or other poisonous
drug.
For COUGHS, COLDS, SORE THROATS,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA, and the
PREVENTION OF CONSUMPTION.
V
The Lancet Laboratory report is conclusive evidence
of the value of “ Eumenthoi Jujubes as an Antiseptic.”
The Lancet says: —“ Proved to be as effective
bactericidall.v as is creosote."
UJ
a
A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
Tubes of a dis-
sected Lung.
Sold by all Chemists, post free on receipt of 1/6 stamps.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL COMPANY, LTD., 19 York Street, SYDNEY. Agencies in ail
the Australian States, New Zealand, and at 320 Regent Street, London.
THE RED PAGE
Brother Copas —“Q.” (Dymock’s.) A very
pleasant story of some realistic Brothers
in an imaginary “College of Noble Pov-
erty.” There is a flavor of the classics
in their talk, and Brother Copas re-
cites portion of his translation of
Pervigilium Veneris in Swinburnian
verse.
Lord Bellinger —Harry Graham (Dymoek’s).
Clever satire of the middle-class peers
of England.
Down our Street —J. E. Buckrose (Mills and
Boon). Humorous suburbanites. Mrs.
Bean is an attractive ci'eation, some-
thing like Mrs. Wiggs of the Cabbage
Patch.
The Bermondsey Twin —F. J. Randall
(Dymock’s)." Farcical complications
which arise though a long-lost twin
(with a sense of humor) turning up and
impersonating his smug, successful
brother.
The Lead of Honor —Norval Richardson. A
well-made story of love and adventure,
somewhat better than the usual Ameri-
can mushy novel.
Love and Treasure Laden —Will Brooke
(Dymock’s). A plain tale of varied ad-
ventures at sea and in Australia 50
yeai’s ago. There is something about
gold mining, river navigation, pearling
in Torres Strait, and an encounter with
the famous Bob Towns; but not much
about love.
Shaw
George Bernard Shaw was satisfied at an
early age that he is a gi-eat man. He hasf
no false modesty, and no regard for any con-
ventions which would prevent him from pro-
claiming that fact aloud. A natural desire
to obtain the benefit of his greatness in his
own time led him to play fantastic tricks
and throw startling gibes at the public.
Talked about, laughed at, abused —eventu-
ally he was heard. George B. Shaw did
not wait to be discovered; he discovered him-
self, and has never since allowed himself to
be hidden. And now he is the most fre-
quently discussed person in the literary
woi’ld.
It would be small comfort for such a man
to know that after death he would be dealt
with by his biographer in five volumes. He
could have been his own Boswell if he had
had time; in fact, he has thrown out a large
amount of biogi-aphical matter in newspaper
articles, and interpreted himself liberally in
prefaces. However, he has done well in
catching his biographer young, filling him up
with material, and helping him with explana-
tions. '
Archibald Henderson, who is responsible
for George' Bernard Shaw: His Life and
Works (Sydney Book plub), is an American
professor who has already written a biog-
l-aphy of Mark Twain, and some essays on
Ibsen, Maeterlinck, Shaw and others whom
he styles Interpreters of Life (Duckworth).
His “authorised critical biography” of Shaw
is a bulky vqlurne (sold here at 255.), illus-
trated with many portraits, caricatures, etc.
Hendei-son seems a l-ather earnest person
who has taken Shaw tod seriously. He has
x’epeated himself frequently, and made the
book too big. Its principal value is that, in
addition to the record of Shaw’s, progress
through life, it contains most of the inter-
esting things said about Shaw, and a large
amount of autobiography.
Born on the 26th July, 1856, of a
Protestant family in Dublin —the father a
narrow-minded, impecunious merchant, the
mother an accomplished musician—with no
schooling worth mentioning, and a little
business training:—
I crossed St. George’s channel into the
decadence of the mid-nineteenth-century Eng-
land of Anthony Trollope, and slowly made
my way to the forefront of the age—the
pei’iod of Ibsen, Nietzsche, the Fabian So-
ciety, the motor-car, and my own writings.
The progress was slow, for in nine years,
1876-1885, he received altogether £6 for his
literary efforts; his clothes turned green, and
his shirt cuffs were cut to the quick. Mean-
while he was educating himself and living
on his mother, who obtained a small income
by teaching singing.
I did not thi-ow myself into the struggle
for life: I thi'ew my mother into it.
From his mother he says that he derived his
brains and character —“which do her credit”
—and that thorough knowledge of music
which made him later on the ablest musical
critic of his time.
In that apprenticeship period he wrote
five -novels, which were persistently refused
by publishers until H. H. Champion, now
of the Melbourne Book Lover, printed
“Cashel Byron’s Profession” in the Socialist
paper, To-Day. Champion admired the story
so much that he stereotyped the pages and
published the book at Is. Henley, Steven-
son and others praised it, but the public re-
mained indifferent. . /
Shaw’s novels do not count for much, but
in them are to be found the first drafts of
many ideas and characters used subsequently
in the plays. Some of these ideas are
original, and Henderson claims that G.B.S.
arrived independently at conclusions which
he is said to owe to Nietzsche and others.
Shaw admits his debt to many people
Samuel Butler of Erewhon, Karl Marx,
Sidney Webb, etc.
I am an expert picker of other men’s
brains, and I have been exceptionally fortu-.
nate in my fi-iends.
He read Shelley and became a vegetarian;
he heard Henry George and turned to So-
cialism. He induced Sidney Webb to join
the Fabian Society, and began a fiery cam-
paign which has had a considerable influence
in British politics. By force of will the
“nervous, shrinking novice” made himself an
efficient speaker, and orated from platform
or cart-tail. He was wx-iting art criti-
cism then and living “like a‘greengrocer and
unlike a minor poet.”
I have lived instead of dreaming and feed-
ing myself with artistic confectionery.
It is in that fact of living energetically that
Shaw’s success lies. He is a Force by vir-
tue of wit derived from Celtic forebears, and
audacity, which he cultivated, being used
incessantly to propagate ideas. His phil-
osophy, wherever it may be derived, is
boiled down to this: —
Life is no “brief candle” for me. It is a
sort of splendid torch which I have got hold
of for the moment, and I want to make it
burn as brightly as possible before handing
it on to future generations.
His policy is stated moi-e than onqe by his
characters: —
Take care to get what you like or you
will be forced to like what you get.
The only really simple thing to do is to
go sti'aight for wfiat you want and get it.
By slashing attacks upon the false gods of
Respectability, by trenchant di’amatic criti-
cism which helped to destroy conventional
standards, by paradox and epigram, he got
what he wanted —the figure. of “G. 8.5.”
prominently before the public. Then he
bi-ought on his own plays. In these there
are types new to the stage; people as they
ai - e essentially, but not as they parade the
streets; sometimes crude and blatant, but
alive with the ideas and wit of Shaw. In-
ferior as works of dramatic art, they are ex-
cellent for propaganda purposes. And they
are refreshing to read, titillating the brain
like an electric shampoo. By supplying
full stage directions and explanatory pre-
faces for the reader, he has given modern
drama a chance of success as literature.
Though this book is mainly autobiography,
Henderson’s work in piecing it together, and
in his running commentax-y, is valuable to
anyone who wishes to understand that de-
lightful phenomenon—G.B.S.
C. K. Allen writes from Oxfoi-d (Eng.)
about the latest Shaw play:—
The other day I saw “Fanny’s First
Play,” at the Little Theatre, with Lillah
McCarthy in the chief part. According to
the rule of the theatx-e, the play is pro-
duced anonymously, but the identity of the
author is unmistakable within five min-
utes of the ring-up. In the induction,
Fanny, the Girton daughter of a father
whose whim it is to live in the eighteenth
centui-y, is pi-ivately producing her first
play, at which she has secured the presence
of four eminent critics. After one of them,
Trotter (no other than A. B. Walkley, who
is reported to have given sittings, as it
were for his portrait) has made a prelimin-
ary fool of himself in an interview with the
coltish authoress, the play proper begins.
Bobby Gilbey and Margaret Knox have
been pitchforked into a kind of semi-en-
gagement by their acutely respectable shop-
keeping parents. Bobby, in company with
a daughter of joy, bashes a policeman’s hel-
met, and gets 14 days. The daughter of
joy calls on Bobby’s parents and explains
the situation in an excruciating interview.
Meanwhile, things have been happening
to Margaret. . She gets spiritually intoxi-
cated at a revival meeting, and goes into a
music-hall in search of experience: there
she makes the acquaintance of a French
naval officer, finds herself in a dancing-
saloon, and subsequently in a mix-up with
the police: in short, 14 days. Naturally
there is a cross-ruffing game of concealment
between the parents; but, behold, Margaret
has bumped hard up against real life, and
she is going to conceal nothing. TheiVare
mutual disclosures between Bobby and Mar-
gai*et; thei-e is a discussion between the
parents, wherein it appears that the dis-
grace has lent a pleasurable flavor of
wickedness to the Methodist existences of
the husbands, who are brought up with a
jerk by the sepulchral Mrs. Knox: there is
an enormous centi’e-stage oration by the
Frenchman, contrasting French .and Eng-
lish women, to the advantage of the latter:
and there is Juggins, the Gilbeys’ butler,
who posseses the common-sense of the party,
and in the approved style of the chauffeur in
“Man and Superman,” and the waiter in
“You Never Can Tell,” turns out to be a
duke’s brother,' and finally marries Mar-
garet, who t has long cherished a secret pas-
sion for him. Lastly comes the epilogue,
in which the critics deliver their judgments,
all too supeidatively silly to be anything but
a Shavian parody on Shaw.
And so the guns of the critics are spiked.
Naturally, they don’t like it. Grein, for
instance, calls the anonymity cowardly, and
declines to walk into the ingenious tnouse-
trap. After all, you don’t refute criti-
cism, merely by anticipating it: and some
of Pshaw’s self-judgments come very near
the mai’k. It is all admirable fooling: we
laughed as only Pshaw can make us laugh
—a hesitating giggle, and then the uncon-
trollable crescendo as the consummate ab-
surdity sinks in. And the laughs were
helped by the admirable acting, for Pshaw
does know how to select a cast. But while
his sense of incongruity is as incomparable
as ever, there is a distressing lack of the
old substantial, stentorian Pshaw. The
B. P. can’t altogether do without him yet,
for he hasn’t exhausted that splendid source
of fun, himself. But was there not a time
when he had something besides fun?
Wells, “Marie Claire,” and
Om Henry
“Meriden”: About the respective merits
of Marie Claire and The New Machiavelli,
Mrs. Jerome (“Red Page” 18/5/T1) exaiis
the former, to the disadvantage of Wells s
book; but to my mind The .New Machiavelli
is infinitely the finer work, simply because
it possesses those characteristics which Mrs.
Jerome attacks. Its triumph is in its
masterly analysis of a man’s developing
mind: in the story of Richard Remington
we are shown, instead of the stock emotion
of the usual novel-puppet, a mirror of that
period of half-guessed mysteries through
which all men must pass. To greet such a
delineation with the outci-y "Vulgar!” is
surely, in these days, an anachronism —a
relic of those sorry times in which the hu-
man body itself became “indecent” to the
unwashed monks of the Thebaid.
Aiarie Claire affects me merely as an ap-
peal to the ear and eye: it conjures
up pale and delicate word-pictures, each
as inconclusive as a dream....lt is a
"bleached” story, one washed free from the
sinful color of life. Here and there we are
led almost to the brink of some momentous
event, only to turn the page and find that
nothing happens, or will happen, or can hap-
pen. After the briefest glimpse of daylight
and strife we find ourselves back again in
that placid moonlit garden of trimmed rose-
bushes which is the soul of Marie Claire... .
Much of Wells’s book is “hard” ; but it is a
deliberate hardness, an emotional reserve:
you can still feel the pulse beating below.
The same cannot with truth be said of the
“softness” of Marguerite Audoux. That is
spontaneous: the “exquisite expi’ession of a
temperament” “curiously detached” from
reality. Many may seek no further than
uie pretty little walled-in flower-garden of
such a temperament: but to those who live
a fuller life there is more enchantment in
those “worlds beyond the wall” of which
Wells has written —the realities of the hu-
man soul.
* * * *
“Jean Sibi”: One fears that few will
agree with Mrs. Helen Jerome’s hectic appre-
ciation of Marie Claire. I bought the book,
and tried to uplift myself into that innocent
heaven where everything is so delight-
fully respectable. Marie Claire left me
as hopelessly mundane, suburban and as
prosaical as before. One could not see in
the book any excuse for writing mad eulo-
gies in feverish adjectives and fussy nouns.
One only saw a procession of animals, peas-
ants and religieuses stalking through the
volume like decorous phantoms, carefully
pausing at the commas, sitting down at the
full-stops, and determined never to intrude
on the prodigious margins. Doubtless those
dear ghosts have a certain beauty and divine
spirituality to rhapsodes, though I am more
impressed by the fact that their orderly pro-
gression through Marie Claire cost me 3s.
6d. to watch and produced intolerable ennui
during the performance.
As to the booming of the book by Octave
Mix-beau and a literary cotei-ie, one can say
that one’s admiration for those people is
tempered by the knowledge that French lit-
terateurs are notoriously fickle and unre-
liable in their literary judgments. I can-
not forget that the poetry of Stephane Mal-
larme was denounced by the foremost critics
of his generation, and was subsequently so
acclaimed by Paris and Fi-ance that he was
called Poete des Po&tes, and received the
adulation of pei-sons so different in their
literai-y “likes” as Adolphe Rettd and
Francois Coppee. I can also recall that
Barbey d’Aurevil'ly led the herd in journal-
istic philippics against the Parnassians,
which included, among other great persons,
Paul Yerlaine and that brilliant, burn-out
amorist, Catulle Mendes. Those facts well
support the suspicion that French critics
will call the genius of to-day the nonentity
of to-morrow, with the same conscienceless
aplomb as they will make the witless ob-
scurity of Monday the adorable artist of the
following week. For that reason one must
slightly discount the ardent “spruiching” of
Octave Mirbeau and Co., without forgetting
also that the exploitation of an alleged “lit-
erary saint” means no inconsiderable addi-
tion to their own prestige. They gain in
popular estimation in their fiery “flotation”
of Miss Audoux, and, like thorough-going
Gauls, are not above exciting attention to
their efforts by bowing with the lady to their
own applause.
* * * *
“Dele” objects to Dyson’s depreciation of
O. Henry : —-
Granted that O. Henry descends to word-
juggling, he rises to word-painting of no
mean order. At times he is a willing prey
to the fascinations of slang—argot—jargon :
but always because slang, as Gelett Bur-
gess has said, is “the illegitimate sister of
poetry.”
Both stand for lavish luxuriance in trope
and involution, for floriation and adorn-
ment of thought. It is their boast to
make two words bloom where one grew
before. Both garb themselves in meta-
phor, and the only complaint of the cap-
tious can be that, whereas Poetry fol-
lows the accepted style, Slang dresses her
thought to suit herself in fantastic and
bizarre caprices; that her whims are un-
stable, and too often in bad taste. But
this odium given to Slang by superficial
minds is undeserved.”
This was written of American slang,
which comes not only from the mouths of
a nation of artists in the verbal graphic,
but largely from the keen, intensive brains
of slick newspaper men of the type ot
George Ade, Gelett Burgess, Will and Wal-
lace Irwin, and O. Henry himself. To that
extent it is a hot-house plant, susceptible to
the cold breath of alien criticism —but in
its own atmosphere it blooms with a tropic
luxuriance all its own. Of that slang, Aus-
tralia knows little or nothing. The nation
whose idea of superlative excellence is con-
veyed by the nonsense-word “boshter” has
yet to devise such expressions of praise as
“the king-pin,” "the snowy-petailed mar-
guerite,” “the star-bright looloo,” which at
the least are tolerably ingenious imagery.
Truly, too much of it palls—but how little
of "boshter” suffices to pall also. The only
ingenious slang that has appeared in Aus-
tralian print is in Edward Dyson’s own
book, "Fact’ry ’Ands” ; and how much of it
is the factory hand’s, and how much is Dy-
son’s, let those declare who, .. in search of
local color, have mashed the Melbourne fac-
tory girl on Alexandra Avenue, and listened
to her artless discourse upon men and
things. It must be admitted that O. Henry
is a master of the mechanics of his marion-
ette-made slang, but at times the figure
works so passing well that one dare swear
it were alive. But slang, grotesque and
exotic as it is, is no garb for immortality,
and the very bricks with which O. Henry
built so many of his literary structures—
and there stands in his name a city of di-
versified architecture—bear in themselves
the germ of crumbling and decay. He cut,
perhaps, no marble: but the tale of bricks
was faithfully told.
“Colac” asks for the names of some useful
books on Socialism. In the new “Home
University Library” (Is. 3d. per vol.) there
is a good monograph on The Socialist Move-
ment, by J. liamsay Macdonald, with a list
of other books worth studying. The fol-
lowing might be added to Macdonald’s list:
Jensen, The Rising Tide (Worker Office,
Sydney), Is.; Kelly, Twentieth Century
Socialism, 95.; Le Rossignol, State Social-
ism in N.Z., 65.; Shaw, Socialism and Su-
perior Brains, Is. 3d. George’s Progress
and Poverty, which turned Shaw and many
others to Socialism, is still valuable.
* * * *
“Bluenose” wants books which will help
in self-education on general questions.
Knowledge is Power, by Philip Gibbs, pub-
lished by E. Arnold, London, at 3s. 6d., is
perhaps the best guide. The range of
subjects is wide, and the tone as little prig-
gish as possible. Scientific Ideas of To-
day, by 0. R. Gibson (Dymock’s, 65.), ex-
plains in simple language the nature of mat-
ter, electricity, light, heat, etc. —so far as
their nature is understood. Seeley’s
“Library of Romance” includes some en-
tertaining volumes at ss. each. One on
Modern Invention, by A, Williams, will put
the reader almost up to date on such mat-
ters as wireless telegraphy, liquid air, air-
ships, submarines, advanced photography,
etc.
* * * *
The Australian Onlooker, a new quarterly
whose first number is dated March last,
states that it “adds another effort to the
already long list of journals whose main ob-
ject has been the furtherance of genuine
literature in this country.” Such an honor-
able intention will excite sympathy, and
may excite a flow of half-crowns to the man-
ager’s address —19 Queen-street, Melbourne.
2s. 6d. is the annual subscription.
It must be understood that in the opinion
of the Onlooker “genuine literature” is
something different to that “form of litera-
ture which is a degenerate outcome of
Lindsay Gordon, and which may be termed
the Cup and Stirrup School, inasmuch as
its muse is mainly vocal upon the subjects
of malted liquor and the turf.”
This organ of the Superior Person is of
the same size as London Punch. Its at-
tempts at humor are feeble; but it has some
good verses by Enid Derham, a translation
from De Banville by A. T. Strong, and a
sensible review of Turner’s First Decade of
the' Australian Commonwealth by O’Dowd.
It is not safe to prophesy on the strength or
the weakness of first numbers. The On-
looker has begun low enough to leave plenty
of room for rising higher.
* * * *
Randolph Bedford writes:—
Mr. Albert Dorrington included in a story
of an alleged Bully Hayes, published in Life,
40 lines or so descriptive of pearling
in Torres Strait, which seemed familiar.
I at last discovered that these 40 lines or
so had been lifted bodily from one of a
series of pearling articles which I wrote
for a syndicate, including S. M. Herald, in
1906. And in the current Life I find more
of it, mixed up with inaccuracies of Mr.
Dorrington’s own. A typographical error
in the S. M. Herald's article drops him into
the trap. I wrote “Binghis,” meaning York
Peninsula aboriginals; S. M. Herald made
it “Burghis,” and now Mr. Dorrington
talks of “a. half-caste Burghis man.” There
are _ other inaccuracies, which convict him
of ignorance of the Strait and the pearl
fisheries.


JL
w ace
Anthony Horderns’ for Fashion 8 Economy
IK
M
i
W.
Ir.ii
A
I Ml
m
fir®
73
109
1100
. i -Girl’s Tweed Norfolk Coat and Skirt
Costume, in light and dark shades, 9-gored
skirt, raised seams, suitable for girls from 14 to
18 years. Sizes—6, 7,8, 9,10, 19/6.
No. 873— Maid’s Coat and Skirt Costume, in
Serge and Tweed ; Coat pleated at sides, finished
strap collar and cuffs, trimmed silk to match ;
pleated skirt.
Sizes 5 6 7 8 9
Prices 19/- 20/= 21/= 22/= 23/=
We are Family Drapers, Complete House Fur-
nishers and Universal Providers, and the New
Palace Emporium, with its immense stock of
the World's Choicest Commodities, offers attrac-
tions not to be found elsewhere. Write for Illus-
trated Departmental Price Lists. Posted free
—on request
No. 4597— Blanket Frieze Coat, 3-length, panel back,
trimmed self buttons, well tailored in Light and Dark
Moss Green Mixtures, 18/6.
No. 972— Venetian Face Cloth Coat and Skirt Costume,
smartly tailored, belt effect back and side, new shape
revers of plain Black Satin, lined Cream Silk Polonaise,
well-cut Skirt. Colors: Wine, Sage, Green, Amethyst,
Peacock Blue, 67/6.
SR
56
i)
-?r
y M,
n
Willi
m
4/
63
No. 56—' Tweed Hat,
trimmed band and quills,
8/11.
No. 63 Felt Cloth
Hat, trimmed band
and bow of ribbon
velvet, 8/11.
No. 41— Felt Hat, trimmed
band and cabaochou, 9/11.
No. 53— Cloth Hat,
trimmed cord and
fancy wing, 12/6.
Sk
>'\V
C&1
126
128
No. 126—Straw Hat, trimmed band
and rosette of ribbon velvet In
Brown, Navy, Wine, Moss, Saxe
and Rose, 4/6.
No. 128—Straw Hat, trimmed Scarf
of Fancy Chiffon. Colors —Moss,
Saxe, Navy, Brown and Rose, 7/11
No. 130— Burnt Straw Hat,
trimmed Band and Rosette
of Velvet Ribbon, 5/6.
V
D 4318
81000
4617
No. 4517 Girl’s Serge Paletot, collar and cuffs trimmed corded silk to match;
double breasted, suitable for girl from 8 to 16 years.
Sizes 27 30 33 36 39 42 45 48 5
Prices 19/6 21/6 22/6 23/6 24/6 25/6 26/6 27/6 28/6
No. Blooo— Girl’s Taffeta Voile Costume in pretty shades of Green, Navy and
Amethyst, suitable for girls from 8 to 14 years.
Sizes 27 30 33 36
Prices 14/9 15/9 16/9 17/9
Co. D4slB—Girl’s Navy Serge Coat and Skirt Costume, imitation gauntlet
cuffs, panel back, pleated at bottom, patch pockets, pleated skirt.
Sizes 5 6 7 8
Prices 25/6 26/6 27/6 28/6
No. 7154— Girls’ Paletots in pretty
shades of Green, Brown, Navy, belt
at waist, pleated skirt, collar and
cuffs, trimmed silk to match.
Sizes 27 30 33 36 39
Prices 16/- 17/= 18/- 19/- 20/=
Sizes 42 45 48 51
Prices 21/- 22/= 23/= 24/=
Consult our Winter Fashion Portfolio for
all that is new in the world of Dress. It
faithfully illustrates the Latest Styles,
and will solve the problem of eco-
nomically conforming: to the prevailing:
modes. Write for a copy, posted free
on application.
No. 2192— Navy Face Cloth Coat, panel back,
trimmed to waist with silk embroidery, self strappings
and buttons. Collar and revers finished embroidery to
match, 29/6.
No. 1606—Stylish Herringbone Tweed Coat, J-length,
panel back, trimmed self buttons at back and side
reinforcements. Collar finished velvet and Russia
braid. Colors, Medium Grey and Fawn, 24/6.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
BricKfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
SH* *8»l+
PUBLIC CAUTION
When asking for PH OS FERINE see that the article
you get is the genuine and spelt
PHOSFERINE
' j. ■ .
Refuse any preparation of a similar sounding name
which may be offered from interested motives. The
original and only genuine PHOSFERINE is prepared by
ASHTON & PARSONS, LTD., LONDON
The Royal Example
Phosferine is used by the Royal Families of Europe,
which, in plain language, means that every user of
Phosferine knows and feels that this famous Tonic is
recommended hy the greatest living Physicians.
Indeed such has been its fame and recommendations, that
there is scarcely a Royal Residence in which PHOSFERINE
is not used and favourably spoken of.
PHOSFERINE
THE GREATEST OF ALL TONICS
No other medicine has received such absolute proof of its
extraordinary properties in restoring shattered constitutions
and in giving back to the prematurely aged new life and
energy. It is a proven remedy for Neuralgia, Nervous
Debility, Indigestion, Sleeplessness, Exhaustion,
Loss of Appetite, Lassitude, Faintness, Brain=Fag,
Headache, and all disorders consequent upon a reduced
state of the nervous system.
Remember.
name. Insist upon
Phosferine the
Imitations of Phosferine
are similar only in
having the genuine
kind that is supplied
by Royal Command
To the British Royal Family
H.I.M. the Empress of Russia
H.M. the King of Spain
H.M. the King of Greece
H.M. the Queen of Roumania
H.M. the Queen of Spain
H.I.H. the Dowager Empress of Russia
H. I. H. the Grand Duchess Olga of Russia
H.R.H. the Grand Duchess of Hesse
The Imperial Family of China.
And the Principal Royalty and Aristocracy throughout the world.
Ihe Genuine Phosferine is sold by all Chemists Stores, etc., in bottles, l/» and 2/0.
The 2/6 size contains nearly four times the \l- size.
Richardson Cushion Frame, Anti-Jar Ball
Bearing; Roller Skates.
Used exclusively in all of the largest and most successful links in America,
and bv all the Champions of the World, fast and fancy. RICHARDSON
SKATES have held all World’s Records for ‘<24 years. Write for Catalogue.
Tells how to open and operate Roller Rink*.
Richardson Ball-Bearing Skate Co., 311 Michigan Street, Chicago, U.S.A.
“RICHARDSON’
CHICAGO
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONET TO LEND
On Security or Freehold or Leasehold
City or Suburban Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand IMS' AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mort<ra<re Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan durinsr any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Dirkctors —The Hon. A. \V. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman : Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman : Benjamin
Short Esq. : The Hon. James Burns. M.L.C. : The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.; The Hon. F.E. Winchcombe, M.L.C.;
Adrian Knox, Esq., K.C. General Manager ana Actuary : Richard Teeee. F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. H. VV. APPERLY, Secretaiy.
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau.
Full Particulars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Climate Health)' and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Crown Land suitable for Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on
Better Terms than elsewhere in Australia.
Corner of Queen and T. C. TROEDSON,
George Streets, Brisbane, General Director.
Sydney Branch Office at 116 Pitt Street.—Local Director : A. MESTON. *
Ali=wool unshrink*
able Socks. Stockings,
and Underwear.
There is no wear so healthy and hygienic as wool —not
a mixture of wool and cotton —but all wool.
If the name is on the socks, stockings, and underwear
you buy you will know that you have all - Australasian - wool wear,
and more —that they are absolutely unshrinkable.
Further, the process makes them as soft and com-
fortable as silk. And 3 are made in England.
Stockings, Socks, and Underwear for Men, Ladies, and Children.
In all prices. Of Men’s Outfitters, Drapers, and Stores. If your
dealer does not stock he can obtain it from his wholesale house.
In case of difficulty write for “ Jason " booklkt and name of nearest
Agent to — 4»*
Jason Hosiery Co., Leicester, England.
Will Anprape ~ BOOKS.
8 POPULAR FARCES
FOR* AMATEURS.
Contents—
Turn Him Out.
Box and Cox.
Popping the Question
That Rascal Pat.
A Kiss in the Dark.
A Regular Fix.
My Turn Next.
The Loan of a Lover.
All these are IN ONE
VOLUME for 1/-;
Post Free, 1/2.
Art ot Boxing and Self-Defence, 1/2; Gold Hunter’s Adventures in Aus-
tralia, 1/D; Complete Book of Love Letters, 1/; How to Woo and Win, 1/L;
Astrology Made Easy, 1/1; Money-Making Secrets, 1/1; Minstrel Show, 1/1;
Eight Popular Farces, 1/1; Sixteen Amusing Farces, 1/1 ; Thirteen One-Act
Farces, 1/1; Twenty Humorous Dialogues, 1/1; Home Amusements, 1/1 ;
“ How Old Mose Counted the Eggs ” and 116 Other Humorous Recitations,
1/1 ; Famous Dramatic Recitations, 1/1 ; “How Sockery Set a Hen ” and
other Comic Recitations, 1/1; Famous Dialect Recitations, 1/1; 1401 Conun-
drums and Riddles, 1/1; Art of Ventriloquism, 1/1 ; Hypnotism, Mesmerism
and Cl irvoyanoe, 1/1 ; Popular Horse and Cattle Doctor, 1/1 ; Howto Teach
Animal Tricks, 1/1; What Young People Should Know, Confidential Talks,
1/1; Dr. Faulkner’s Original Book of Nature, the only genuine and complete
edition, 3/6, posted 3/9 ; New Tricks with Cards, 1/ ; House Painting, Paper-
hanging, Whitewashing, etc., 1/2; 3000 Priceless Secrets, 1/8; Irish Jokes
and Witty Sayings, 9d. ; Complete Letter Writer for Ladies and Gentlemen,
1/; Dancing Without an Instructor, 1/; Lover’s Guide to Courtship and
Marriage, 1/; Bernard Macfadden’s Physical Training, 2/9; Macfadden’s
Building of Vital Power, 5/4 ; Macfadden’s Superb Virility of Manhood, 5/4;
Macfadden’s Sweethearts for Lives, 5/4 ; Australian Billiard Champion Gray’s
Book on Billiards, 1/5 ; Wrestling Instructor,
with 60 Photographic Illustrations, 1/9 ; Bag
Punching, lOd. ; All Steele Rudd’s Aus-
tralian Books, 1/1; Road Map of Victoria,
1/1.
ZOTAND ANY BOOK
YOU WANT.
Mention The Bulletin.
Above prices include postage to any address. Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne
The WONDERFUL VIRTUES
The following letter was written from “ Glenevonf Sodwalls, Ah.S. Wales,
yth March , iqii, and it shows what a wonderful remedy this is for restoring
the sick man or woman to health and strength. Read this letter :
Clements Tonic Ltd.
“I wish you to know what benefit I have received from your Tonic and Fletcher’s
Pills, which you seil with your Tonic. I have suffered from chronic indigestion for
many years, and about 10 months ago, through an illness and trouble, my health, com-
OF CLEMENTS TONIC
pletely gave way. My digestion, as well as all other functions of my body, became so
weak that I could not take even the lightest of food without suffering very much pain. I
became quite a wreck. I suffered pain from all parts of my body and limbs, which
ached to such an extent that I could scarcely walk about. There was not one part
of me which was not in pain, my heart especially felt very bad, with constant pain
and heaviness there. Also, a feeling of weakness, which made me feel it was quite
impossible for me to live for long. There was also a dreadful cold sensation shoot-
ing from the heart. My nerves, too, were weak, that the slightest noise upset me
completely, and increased the awful pain and weakness at my heart. I had given up
hopes of ever getting better, as I had been attended to by three doctors, and also two
SAVED this WOMAN’S LIFE
chemists, and had taken different patent medicines, but without any improvement. I
then decided to try Clements Tunic, and I cannot find words to express my feelings
of pleasure in doing so. Before the first bottle was completed, I found I was improv-
ing in every way. I have taken three bottles only. I can now take any kind of food,
and can sleep well, and all pain has left my body and limbs. My heart, too, is feeling
quite well again. I have taken a great amount of medicine during my life, but never
any have I derived so much benefit from as Clements Tonic and Dr. Fletcher’s Pills.
You may use this testimony as yom wisli, as I have witnesses to prove it is true.
Yours faithfully, (Signed) EMMA JENKINS.”
Clements Tonic is unequalled for the relief of Anaemia, Loss of Sleep,
Appetite, or Confidence. It benefits Nervousness, Indigestion,
Constipation and Biliousness. All Stores and Chemists sell it.


Makes
The
Hair
Grow
We are talking about Ayer S
Hair Vigor. Just note that word
“Ayer’s.” You are perfectly
Safe with it. No harm to you or
to your hair. Makes the hair
grow ? It certainly does. Stops
falling hair, too. Remember, it’s
“Ayer’s ” we are talking about.
Ask your doctor about your hair
and about Ayer’s Hair Vigor.
Get his approval. Your own
doctor and “Ayer’s” make a
Strong Combination. It means
faith, confidence, satisfaction.
Ayer’s Hair Vigor
DOES NOT COLOR THE HAIR
Prepared by t)r. J. G< Ayer &. Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
BLOOD DISORDERS
Packets, 3d., 6d. and Is.
[2A
TEN DAYS’ FREE TRIAL.
Packed Free. All charges Prepaid to you*
Port direct from our Factory. Highest-
grade British-made MEAD
Coventry Flyers
WARRANTED FIFTEEN YEARS.
Defiance PuttctUre-Resisting or Dunlop
Tyres, Coasters, Variable-Speed Gears,
I Flyer or Brook’s. Saddles, etc.
(LATEST
MODELS
£3.10 to £9
Tyres and accessories half usual prices*
»PCtITC wanted ill each district. rite
AulNlo at bnfce, Usiilg suffleieht postage,
for Fro© Art Catalogue and ou#
ntfnr on samole machine.
MEAD
■nOOdHSAn 08 S **daa
‘ANVdNOO 3TOAO
JAS. J. GILTINAN, Agent, 167 Clarence St., Sydney.
'4 4
WINCHESTER
Always
Reliable !
As is the case with
all ‘ELEY’ Goods,
the accuracy of the
Eley ’44 Winchester
Central Fire Car-
tridge is such as
should commend it
to the attention of
critical sportsmen.
4 Eley Smokeless pop-
ular low-priced cartridge.
‘Eley 22 Rim Fire Car -
| tridge’ black and smoke-
less powder.
All Eley Cartridges
are made in London
, OfGunmakers ,
and Dealers
Seethe
name
‘Eley'
on all
car-
tridges
Eley
Bros.,
Ltd.,
London
C 3
CO
CO
m
CO
Sold Everywhere.
to the question—is it the best ? Yes it is undoubtedly the
best Cough Remedy that skill and purest ingredients can
produce. This preparation has been curing Coughs
and Colds for upwards of 45 years, and although numer-
ous imitations have appeared from time to time none
have stood against “BonningTon’s*' of 40 years fame.
BONNINGTON’S
Irish Moss.
The ideal family medicine is equally
beneficial for Adults or Children.
Mothers can give it to the little ones
with every confidence as it is entirely
free from harmful narcotics.
Do not take imitations—just ask for “BONNINGTON’S” and
see that you get it.
u MOSS
IRIS
HEALTHFUL. ECONOMICAL*. CONVENIENT.
BICKFORDS Essence of Coffee,
n quh JACK” Brand. Fulfils the requirements of the “PURE FOODS" Act.
Obtainable Everywhere. 100 CUPS FOR 1/6 .
A. M. BICKFORD & SONS, LTD., Fitt St., Sydney; Currie St., Adelaide; Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
Thin Women!
Would you like to
be Well and Fully
Developed ?
ANY WOMAN who lacks good bust development lacks the one
essential that creates a perfect appearance. Lack of proper
bust development, hollow cheeks and “salt-cellars” quickly
take from a woman the bloom and freshness of healthy womanhood. . .
Misfortune may have been your lot in so far as natural development
is concerned, but science has found a way to correct your deficiency.
Even though you have never been full-bosomed, and although you
have been attenuated all your life, if you suffer from no wasting
disease, your bosom can be fully developed and your weight increased
to normal.
There are, to-day, hundreds of women who were once thin, flat-bosomed,
hollow-cheeked, and generally scraggly in appearance, and suffering the effects
of anaemia and defective digestion, who are now, for the first time in their lives,
healthy, full-bosomed and pink-cheeked, and enjoying the full vigor of robust
womanhood, as the result of a few weeks under our wonderful
“ Flesh-Food ’* Treatment.
Many women whose figures have been spoiled by maternal duties havg been
entirely restored to splendid form, and flat-chested young women who suffered
glow development have had the fault corrected by this treatment.
Flesh-food is totally harmless in every respect. Its efficacy is beyond
question, and its use is no demand upon the subject’s time. Many eases have
gained even up to six pounds a week, and an increase in bust measurement up
to eight and ten inches.
TRIAL SAMPLE FREE!
We publish an interesting book on the subject pf attenuation and develop-
ment, and will-send same and a FREE SAMPLE TREATMENT to you free, of
charge, upon receipt of a 2d. stamp to pay part postage. All communications
private and confidential. Write or call for full particulars.
FAILIERE FLESH-FOOD CO.,
5 LINDEN COURT, SYDNEY, [lBOO
cor. Castlereagh & Market Streets.
Sjgyg?,
PERFECT
FOOD
TYPHOID & DYSENTERY
HORLICK’S MALTED MILK
is especially valuable as a diet in
Fever cases. Easily assimilated in
the weakest conditions. Whole-
some, nourishing and sustaining.
Recommended by the Medical Profession.
Of all Chemists and Stores.
Pitt Street, Sydney, N..S W.
Horlick's Malted Milk Co.,
Slough, Bucks. .
England.
SMOKERS
Can be Cured!
Tobacco specific is a harmless
vegetable remedy that will make the
user of tobacco in any form abandon
the habit for good. It not only destroys the
craving, the desire, the appetite for tobacco,
but restores to health the entire nervous sys-
tem, and aids Nature in entirely eliminating
the Nicotine Poison from the system.
FREE TRIAL.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you a
trial package of this grand remedy, and also
our free booklet. 1 rial package often effects
a cure.
Frank Ford, Blackall Plains, Queensland, on
Mav 14, 1911, writes : —“ I was a smoker from 7
years of age, and am now 73. Your Tobacco
Specific has made a new man of me.”
H. SINCLAIR & CO., Dept. G.,
Victoria Arcade, Sydney.
£1573|1*|9
at a penny a smile, the cash value
of . y .°“ The Wayback Series.
RUPTURE
Do you suffer from this complaint ? No
doubt you wish to be cured without operation.
Have you grown tired oi wearing useless
trusses ? Then send for our little book,
giving a full description of our
AUTOMATIC
Air Cushion Appliance
by means of which a permanent cure can be
effected. We positively affirm this in spite ot
the many previous disappointments you may
have had. This appliance is something en-
tire! v new —is in fact the Best Rupture
Appliance of* the Ccnturyj and to
prove this to you
WE GIVE YOU TWO DAYS TRIAL
with each appliance that we send out. Perfect
comfort and ease trom the first day s use. No
ste 1 bands to torture or galling pads or
leather chafing understraps ; Ihe pad is made
of soft pliable rubber, which presses gently
but firmly on the correct spot.
Full Particulars Posted Free
WINSLOW co.,
34-9 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
Waterman’s
( Ideal
FountairiPen
The
Pen to Trust.
The more useful an article is, the more
imitators it has. There are now many Foun-
tain Pens, there is only one Waterman s
Ideal. Only one pen which possesses the
essential characteristics of a per/eel
Fountain Pen only one , and that is
Waterman s Ideal.
You will not have trouble with Water-
man’s Ideal. It will always write when
you want it to write, it will neither leak
nor spurt, it will not get out of order, it will
last a lifetime. Nibs supplied to suit any
handwriting.
12/6 and upwards. From Stationers,
Jewellers. &c„ throughout the world.
L. & C. HARDTMUTH, Ltd,
Koh-i-noor House,
London, England.
Ask to see Waterman s Ideal Safety
Pens and Pumo-fiMing Pens.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Poet’s Window.
From out the window of his soul,
As from a tower, he peers.
He sees the misty cloud-wracks roll;
He looks across the years.
He watches, from the niche on high,
The peoples of the world go by.
He hears the clamor of the street;
He hears the city’s roar;
The roll of wheels, the tramp of feet
Along the river shore;
He sees the river, dark and wide,
Co winding through the country-side.
Along the lawns, beneath the trees,
Trim youths and maidens, pass
By bordered plots and terraces,
And on the smooth-cut grass;
And children’s voices at their play
Float to his window day by day.
The dainty ladies, gaily clad,
More brilliant than the blooms;
The poor, the rich, the gay, the sad ;
Gilt youths and smooth-faced grooms;
The laborer, heavy-foot and slow—
All pass his window, to and fro.
From Death, the Harvester, he gleans,
Through contemplation long,
A spoil of many fields and scenes
Wheteout he weaves his song;
Mot heeding profit of his pains,
Nor counting his uncertain gains.
VICTORIA.
G. G. A. COLLES.
Going On for Eighty Year.
Mother, I’ve been dreaming, dreaming, dreaming
all the eventide
Of a cottage in the country over on the Tambo side.
You and I were there together, we who love each
Other so,
Seated ’midst a many flowers, in the evening’s after-
glow.
There were wrinkles on your forehead, and your hair
was strewn with grey,
But your cheeks had caught the color of the slowly
dying day,
And you smiled as one grown gentle in the face of
conquered fear ;
“You are happy,” 1 was saying, “going on for eighty
year.”
And your voice! “Do you remember, lad of mine
who loves me so,
How you used to tell your father in the days of long
ago—
‘We will buy the old place, daddy, where your little
laddie grew,
With a'heap of things for mammy, when I’m just as
big as you’ ?
Ah! you little thought you hurt him with your
simple prattle then ;
But you’ve kept your childish promise, and I’m glad
we’re back again.”
And I watched you looking outward with a smile
that hid a tear—
i Is there sometimes joy in sadness, going on for
j eighty year ?
, But I’m waking, mother, waking, now the long hot
day is dead,
And my heart is aching, aching for the vision that
has fled,
For the dear old Tambo River with its ever-running
rune, '
For the old, white roofs of Beulah in the pathway
of the moon,
For the seat among the flowers, where we lingered,
you and I,
When our lives were rosy-colored as the sunset in
the sky ;
But the four walls of the city hold me as a captive
here,
And, my mother, you are lonely, going on for eighty
year.
Ah! the hope that kept us working—Beulah yours
until the end,
Mine the river flats for tillage and the mountain
flocks to tend.
But a stranger reigns ac Beulah where the Spring
doth linger yet,
And we dwell at Parting-places in the valley of
Regret. , . ,
Oh! ray heart-strings seem to harden, and I dare no
longer think ;
Christ who sweated in the garden had no cup like
this to drink ;
| But if strength of love availeth, mother, be of better
cheer ;
| You shall yet find joy of being, going bn for eighty
year.
QUEENSLAND.
MILKY WHITE.
Coffin Ships.
Old iron tanks that are rolling ever,
Back and forward upon the main;
Sent to sea with the hope that never
Into port they will steam again.
Decks a-wash and their plimsolls under;
Bilge pumps running to keep them free.
Day by day on their ways they blunder;
Staggering blindly upon the sea.
Rusted cranks which are weakly turning
Save when they race in a drunken way;
Certain death is the greaser earning,
A racing shaft and a broken stay.
So they shoulder the big seas under,
“How do they do it?” It’s hard to say.
The gale is rising. We pause and wonder
Where they’ll be at the close of day.
J'.S.W.
FRANK JESSUP.
Idols.
While I may forward look and back
A-down a vista lit with love,.
I shall not break my heart for lack
Of riches, nor seek joy thereof.
For when 1 look into your eyes
And see your heart’s gold shining there,
I know love is a richer prize
Than they that worship riches share.
Their idol is cold gold, but mine
Warm flesh and tender thought, and breath
Made beautiful with speech divine,
That fears no bitterness in death.
Yet, since my love is all in all,
I tremble lest a rough word shake
The altar and my idol fall; . . .
For then indeed my heart would break!
N.S.W.
W. M. WHITNEY.


Combination Couch and Bed.
CHANGED INSTANTLY.
Size when open, 4ft. x 6ft. 7in.
* i
* « * ‘
: » v v ■>- v.' v T) *
JA 1 j
v>\'A vifrAAyVtV-v'WA\.‘Wi«
1
4b iffg^
?fe
-~
CLOSED AS COUCH.
V.» . O O
r’O:
7 A. <
S.
&
OPEN AS DOUBLE BED.
Commonwealth
Patent 12274.
Cannot get out of order; is
exceptionally strong and durable.
Just the thing for offices,
small rooms, or where an extra
bed is required.
Invaluable for hotels, boarding-
houses, coffee palaces, and similar
establishments.
Can be had fitted with box, to
act as linen press. Three pieces
of furniture in one.
Elegantly upholstered.
CASH PRICES:
In Cretonne, £4 10s. ; in
Tapestry or American Leather,
£5 55.; in Rexine, £6 6s. With
Box, 20s. extra.
Patent Rights held by
MARCUS CLARK & Co. Ltd.
SYDNEY.
THE ACOOBDEON for Country Residents.
We don’t believe any Accordeon conies
so near perfection as the Celebrated
STAR Trombone Accordeon.
It has a powerful tone, handsome ebonised case, extra
laige bellows protected by steel corners; 2 sets of extra
broad steel bronze reeds. Patent Rotary Celeste Stop.
Pv'jf'A Postage to anv Address
■ i ivc cfmt I . in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Extra quality, with 3 sets of Reeds, Celeste and Or«-an Stop
10-fold Bellows with steel corners. Price £1 7s. 6d
postage to any address in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Other Accordeons from 7/6 to 100/=
HEINDORFF BROS.,
Importers of Pianos and all kinds of Musical
Instruments, Watches, Jewellery, etc.,
210 QUEEN STREET— — BRISBANE
m
V.
ip*
2:
SI vm
Aleoek Billiard
excel.
Consult any competent judge of billiard tables, and he’ll
promptly tell you that there are no tables equal to “Alcoek's.”
Many of the leading billiard matches have been played on •
the- tables—the Melbourne match between George Gray
Lindrum, ]un., when Gray scored 836, 831 comino-
off the red, is another proof of the marvellous accuracy and
perfect construction of our billiard tables.
Each table is fitted with Imperial Low Cushions, and
bears our trade mark.
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.
ALcociaFca pty. Ltd.
Billiard Table Manufacturers,
397 George St., Sydney. 114 Edward St., Brisbane. Baker Buildings,
Featherstone St., Wellington 155 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
7 King William St„ Adelaide, Murray St., Perth.
[5
OLD
ORKNEY
»
SCO
OLD ORKNEY
Real Liqueur Whisky
4§m
AGENTS:
SYDNEY-Tooheys, Ltd 7
MELBOURNE —T.R. Jones & Co.
BRISBANE—EIIiott, Donaldson
& Douglas, Ltd.
ADELAIDE—Lord & Heseltine.
HOBART—John Ferguson & Co.VH
LAUNGESTON-Jonn McKenzie & Co.
rHF V, in SKY
FOR IHE HOME
UL9
WM3
iflesfisf-liii'lid
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF, from 11s. per day, or apartments
may he secured separately by the day from 3s. 6d. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to The Manager.
Health, Wealth
and Prosperity !
BUT ABOVE ALL
<s>
GOOD HEALTH.
You Can GET and KEEP Good
Health for
THE PRICE OF THE
GROVER VIBRATOR
Fits on any Ordinary WATER TAP,
and can be used by a CHILD.
YOU FEEL IT CURE!
IF YOU SUFFER FROM
headache:,
INDIGESTION,
TORPID LIVER,
NEURASTHENIA,
VERTIGO,
LUMBAGO,
RHEUMATISM,
CONSTIPATION,
INSOMNIA,
SCIATICA,
or ANY KINDRED AILMENT,
The GROVER WATER-POWER VIBRATOR
WILL CURE YOU.
Write for Illustrated Booklet FREE to
\CRAVEN, TAYLOR & CO. Ltd.,
226 Clarence St., Sydney
54 Bourke St., Melbourne.
/


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 32.—N0. 1634.
THURSDAY, JUKE 8, 1911.
Piucrc fJn.
SOME ADVICE TO LITTLE WILLIE.
The Speech at the opening of the N.S.W. Parliament mentioned with joy that the Labor Government had borrowed all the money it needed within the State.
AUNTIE DAILY PAPER: “You must keep on being a good boy, Willie, and always be kind to the nice fat gentleman, who. is really a poor
widow and a lone orphan. And when you do anything for him you mustn’t ask him to pay ; you must be a nice good boy and
ask him to lend you the money, and then you’ll be able to supply him with interest all your life. And he’ll be so glad that in time
he may adopt you for his own little boy.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“ Australia for the White Man.’*
Printed and published by William Macleod,
of Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mos-
man, for The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
Ltd., at the Office of the Co., 214 George-
street North, Sydney, N. S. Wales, Aus-
tralia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES: Business, 1384 Central.
Editorial, 257 City.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Per Annum .. . . ..£l6O
Half-yearly . . . . .. 0 13 6
Quarterly 0 7 0
By sending direct to fun Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin
posted regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communica-
tions to he addressed to William Macleod, Manag-
ing Director.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the
paper (and, to an extent, themselves) by taking
some care as to methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, ad-
vertisements, etc.) should in no case be addressed to
the Editor, but to the Manager. To send them to
the Editor is to invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters
to anyone by name. “The Editor, The Bulletin,” is
the proper superscription for “copy.” Delay, and
even loss, is sometimes caused by addressing to per-
sons instead of officials. The person may not be
there; the official always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused. '
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers'. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” col-
umn all contributions submitted, whether in the
form of Political, Social or other Articles, Verse,
Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially accept-
able), Paragraphs, Letters or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly coiifi- '
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS.
when the address is specified and stamps are en-
closed. But no MS. will be returned, or preserved,
unless these conditions are observed. When MS. is
forwarded without stamps for return it will be un-
derstood that the copy is to be destroyed if not ac-
ceptable. Personal applications for return of MS.
cannot receive attention. The Bulletin desires,
further, those sending MS. to distinctly understand
that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous' or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and - adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea,
but unfitted for direct reproduction-—i.e.. any [pic-
ture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid for ds a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
The Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on
account of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale
agents) to Victoria, West Australia, Queensland,
Tasmania and New Zealand; and on account of
Messrs. Atkinson and Co. and Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide
■ —at 4/6 per doz. nett.
Copies of The Bulletin can be- obtained .in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, . from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British
Australasian Office, 115 High Holborn, London,
South Africa.— The Central News Agency, Cape-
town; Dawson and Son, Capetown; The Central
News Agency, Durban, Natal; and. others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery . Co., Vancouver
8.C.; Irvine and Forsyth, J/jl Hastings Street;
Norman , Caple and Co., Stationers.
U.S.A. —Isserlis A., Seattle, Washington; Inter-
national News Agency, Los Angeles; Chicago News-
paper Agency, 170 Madison Street, Chicago.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port
Said, j h
Hong 1 Kong.— Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Singapore. — Messrs. John Little and Co. ’
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size
6%in. x 11/in., will be forwarded on application.
Larger sizes can be supplied if desired.
THURSDAY, JUNE 8, 1911.
IN THE CAUSE OF PEACE.
When the other day the Acting-Premier of
N.S.W. referred to the trouble caused by
men who frivol with other men’s wives, and
gave it as his opinion that they should be
gaoled, not because such misconduct is mor-
ally wrong, but because it enrages the in-
jured party, he opened up a line large vista
in front of the reformer. There are many
maddening things in the world, but there
is probably nothing that causes quite so
many murderous thoughts as the political
catch-cry. Our party government system pre-
scribes that Liberals and Laborites shall
range themselves on opposite sides in every
big question that comes up for discussion.
The average man knows little about the
matters at issue; consequently he recog-
nises his incompetence to argue them
except in the home circle, where his
wildest pronouncements are, of course,
incontestable. Outside that circle he
falls back in self-defence on some
plausible gag supplied by his party leaders
or party newspapers, and exploits it. with
slight variations, whenever he is challenged
as to his views on this or that problem of
the hour. The gag is always designedly
irritating to the other side. Thus the rank
and file of “Liberals” swelled their chests
and gave “Home Rule” and . “Freedom” as
their reasons for voting “No” to the Refer-
enda proposals. Inferentially anyone who
favdred a “Yes” vote was for bondage. In
“The New Machiavelli.” by Wells, the cen-
tral figure is quoting from the diary of his
well-meaning but hopelessly stupid mother:
D. would not go to church, and hardened his heart
and said wicked and infidel things, much disrespect
of the clergy. The anthem is tiresome! ! !
That men should set up to be wiser than their
Maher !
“Dreadful little tangle of misapprehensions
and false judgments,” is Wells s exasper-
ated comment on the lady’s effort. It pre-
cisely fits the average political gag, and the
manner and spirit in which it is exploited.
* * * *
An Empire Day festival made its first ap-
pearance on the calendar recently, and was
boomed by an undistinguished old British
person of leisure named Meath. Certain
Australian citizens, mostly politicians and
professional men in need of self-advertise-
ment, banded themselves into leagues, and
took to speechifying in the streets and in the
State schools on May 24 —folks like B.
Smith, M.P., and Judkins, of Melbourne,
being particularly wordy and effusive on
these occasions. At a time when the blither
about Imperialism was at its height, Aus-
tralian “liberalism” formally appropriated
this Empire Day, in a manner of speaking,
thus again demonstrating its unique girt
for "cottoning on” to the most futile of Old-
World movements. Presently Britain start-
ed to speak of the Boer war as "a mistake.”
The Enited Kingdom began to view Mate-
king Day and its rejoicings, and the old
daredevil talk about singeing Kruger’s whis-
kers, in their proper perspective. And, sim-
ultaneously, Empire Day started to wilt.
In the United Kingdom, S’Africa, Canada
and India it w r ould seem to be now practi-
cally extinct. In Australia, however, a
political party having fathered the function,
there is a disinclination to admit that the
thing which was acclaimed immortal has
gone the way of all fluff. So a multitude of
blackguardly motives are attributed by “Lib-
eralism” to all who decline to go through
certain ceremonies yearly in the presence of
a piece of bunting wdiich has eight
times out of ten been imported from
Germany. Thus one Smithurst, of Syd-
ney, wrote to the papers last week blandly
propounding that those who neglected to
hoist “the grand old Union Jack which had
braved,” etc., over their dwellings on Em-
pire Day, but instead hoisted an Australian
flag, were unworthy of the esteem of respec-
table citizens. “Liberal” papers in Syd-
ney, Melbourne and elsewhere went several
steps further, and stated bluntly that the
man who omitted to celebrate Empire Day
was one who yearned for “the disruption of
the Empire”—a traitor, a biter of the
hand that had fed him, and a hundred other
opprobrious things. And immediately, in
all those centres which take people like
Smithurst and papers ■ like the Argus
seriously, the landscape became a mass of
citizens snarling fierce charges of mad “dis-
loyalty” and “revolutionary views,” and
counter-charges of lying and dishonesty, to
the imminent danger of the public peace.
Of course no sane Australian wants to dis-
rupt the Empire. The Empire-disrupter
is the same old fraud as W. E. Johnson’s
myth, who was represented as advocating an
Australian fleet because he wanted to see it
“blow the British Navy out of the water.”
The type that refuses to “celebrate” Empire
Day does so for all sorts of sound reasons,
such as: (1) Because he hasn’t time, (2)
because he lias watched Joseph Cook or
llenley celebrating, and has a sense of the
grotesque, (3) because it reminds him of
old-time hat-smashing and bar-looting or-
gies he would rather forget, and (4) be-
cause he lacks the music-hall instinct. His
attitude is perfectly logical, but it is never
accepted as such by the people who have as-
similated the “Liberal” catch-cries on this
subject, and his portion is licensed insult
till the excitement simmers down.
The “Liberal’s” muddled frame of : mind
concerning the enemy was never exemplified
better than during the Dreadnought cam-
paign. Dreadnausea is now recognised to
have been a mere party manoeuvre, designed
to put Fisher out of office, and Reid in.
No one in his senses considered that loyalty
to Ed. VII. entered into the controversy.
Nevertheless, the well-liked monarch was
dragged into the fray, and there he stopped.
It was the custom of George Reid and
other Dreadnought orators, on being re-
quested to state their objections to an Aus-
tralian fleet, either to call excitedly for
“three cheers for His Majesty,” or to ask
the audience to rise in unison and sing “God
Save the King.” This laid the contraver-
sialist out flat, as indeed it would have de-
feated a Demosthenes. Also it impressed
on a muddy-minded populace that all who
weren’t for George Reid were in some
vague unexplained way hostile to Edward
VII. There were thousands of backyard
rows in 1909 over Brown’s inability to ex-
plain to Smith that, while believing in an
Australian fleet, he (Brown) did not neces-
sarily want to see the King of England de-
throned ; and Jones’s dogged, unreasoning
assertion that all who were against Dread-
nausea were necessarily also “disloyalists,”
made innumerable Nationalists rage.
In a really civilised community all this
shouting and insult would be condemned to
death. If a youth so much as addresses a
strange young woman in the street he is
seized and dealt with by the Law. “Abus-
ive language” is an offence; so is the em-
ployment of any of a thousand other means
of provoking people. But no one does a
thing to the citizen who infuriates his fel-
low man by publicly accusing him of trai-
torous conduct, gross ingratitude, and a
yearning for Blood. The accusations are
never true. They are arrived at by a pro-
cess of rotten logic, a striking instance of
which occurred in the Anti-Socialist cam-
paign, where it was argued that some La-
bprites were Socialists, and that certain So-
cialists were atheists and advocates of free
love, wherefore all who supported the Aus-
tralian Labor party were in favor of abol-
ishing religion, destroying the marriage tie,
and bursting up home life. It enrages a
respectable citizen to be publicly accused of
sentiments like these, almost as much as it
enrages him to find a friend making love to
his wife, and certainly far more than it does
to curse at him. _ So the political insult, if
only because it is the most frequent and
virulent of modern insults, is one of the
first things a Government which seeks to
promote peace and good feeling in the com-
munity should lay itself out to abolish.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Progressive Land Tax Held Valid.
In unanimously declaring the land-tax valid,
the High Court did the obvious thing. As
Justice Higgins put it: —
A great part of the argument for plaintiff must
seem to an outsider grotesque. Counsel had taken the
Acts and had examined ever}' nook and corner with
microscopic care in order to find, if possible, some
provision which had transgressed the Constitution in
any particular, even the most insignificant, and they
had applied great industry and ingenuity to demons-
trating that if such and such a provision was treated
as invalid the remainder of the Act would be “sub-
stantially different” from what Parliament intended,
and must be invalid also. It was not pretended
that the impugned provisions affected the' plaintiff,
but if the plaintiff could show that the whole of the
leg'slation was bad because of some provision which
did not concern him, he would be free from ob-
ligation to pay tax. Into such barren intellectual
gymnastics they were forced in this case, and pro-
bably in cases to come. In this case, however, he
was glad to find that whatever their individual
opinions might be as to the proper principles of
severability, all the members of the Court agreed in
the view that either no invalidity had been shown,
or that, if there was any invalidity, the invalid pro-
vision could be severed from the rest of the Acts
which remained valid.
Nevertheless, it is plain that the Federal
Government still has a host of land-tax
troubles before it. The judgment of C.J.
Griffith foreshadows some provisions which
may be declared invalid in cases to come,
viz., (1) the acquisition clause, which em-
powers the Commonwealth to acquire land
at an owner’s valuation plus 10 per cent.;
and (2) the section which provides for the
taxing of the absentee shareholder’s interest
in land. Justice O’Connor said in the lat-
ter connection: —
Technically, no doubt, the holder of shares in a
company had no interest in the lands of the com-
pany ; but, looking at the substance of the matter,
every owner of a share was interested in the lands
of a company proportionately to the number of his
shares, just as a partner was interested in the lands
of a partnership. The Legislature, disregarding the
provisions of _ common law, imposed a tax according
to the real interest of the shareholder, taking the
number of his shares as a measure of his interest.
It might be that the section was open to the objec-
tion that it was not a valid exercise of the power of
taxation.
The acquisition clause was borrowed from
Maoriland, which is untrammelled by a Con-
stitution that habitually gets in the way of
popular legislation. It has proved there the
most effective and economical device for pre-
venting landholders from defrauding the
Government by undervaluing their property.
The owner has necessarily a pretty accurate
idea of the value of his land. By requiring
that he shall put his own price on it for
purposes of taxation, the Government does
him no wrong, causes him the minimum of
hardship, and avoids a vast amount of liti-
gation, valuers’ fees and expense generally.
The public interests are safeguarded by the
fact that. a landowner undervalues his es-
tate at his own peril. As to the other sec-
tion, apparently the Court may hold on some
future occasion that, while a tax on land is
valid, a tax on an absentee shareholder’s in-
terest in land isn’t. The logic of the matter
is beyond the layman’s comprehension. Cer-
tainly such a conclusion will be a. violent
and unpleasant shock to the bulk of the
Commonwealth electors. Already there
looms over the horizon a fresh blizzard of
litigation, in which the people of Australia
stand to have at least two of their cherished
proposals blown right out with heavy costs
for the sole benefit (1) of the local land
monopolist, and (2) of an oversea capital-
ist who, for the most part, has as much per-
sonal interest in Australia as he has in the
fortunes of Iceland. It is a dreary prospect:
the only cheerful feature is the fact that
such happenings tend to make thinking
people more and more favorable to unifica-
tion—-the system of government which Brit-
ain, S’Africa and Maoriland enjoy.
• -♦ —
A New Bill and a Good One.
An interesting characteristic of the Indus-
trial Bill which was introduced in the
N.fcS.W. Legislative Assembly last week is its
family likeness to the Arbitration Act of
181)9. The grouping together of industries,
the making of trades unions industrial
units, the principle of collective bargaining
were all essential features of the old Act.
The Wages Board system is, in its present
form, admittedly hopeless. If Wages Boards
were suffered to go on increasing as they
have increased in the last couple of years,
every barrister in the "country would shortly
have a job as chairman* of one of theSe in-
stitutions, and hall- the population would
spend the daylight hours giving evidence be-
fore them: The grouping system should eli-
minate that abuse. Beery’s proposal is an
improvement on the old arrangement. Under
B. It. Wise’s Act the Court had power to
refer all technical matters to Boards of ex-
perts—virtually to Wages Boards. The
Court’s duty, in theory, was to deal broadly
with rates of wages, hours of work, prefer-
ence to unionists, piece work and appren-
tices. In practice Justice Cohen attempted
to handle personally all the details which he
might have referred elsewhere, with the re-
sult that the Court became hopelessly con-
gested. The difference herein between the
old Act and the new is that whereas in the
former case reference to Boards was option-
al, in the latter it is compulsory. The re-
adoption of trades unions as industrial
units means, amongst other things, that none
but organised Labor bodies will be entitled
to apply for an award. Under the Wade
Act any 20 persons could apply, one effect
of which was to pave the way for the form-
ation of bogus unions. The principle of col-
lective bargaining, now restored, should
never have been dropped. Under that system,
within three years of the passing of the
original Act, more than half the industries
in N.S.W. were working under industrial
agreements voluntarily arrived at by the vari-
ous organisations and registered in the Court.
C. Griffith’s wholly unexpected decision
that a voluntary agreement could not be
turned into a common rule—in short, that
before there could be a common rule there
must be a dispute and litigation—disturbed
65,000 workers, and materially assisted to
bring about the breakdown of the Act. To
the best features of the old Bill Minister
Beeby has added a number of excellent new
ones. Conciliation committees have long
since justified themselves in Canada. They
are based on the presumption that working
men don’t throw up decent jobs out of mey'f
fractious waywardness, and that, therefore,
if some person in authority—a qualified um-
pire, so to speak—is on hand to consider the
merits of each fresh dispute as it crops up,
and before tools have actually been downed,
much trouble may be averted. The pro-
vision allowing unions to strike, under cer-
tain circumstances, amounts to a challenge
to the horse-sense of the Labor Party’s foes,
the Socialists. The irreconcilables, in com-
mon with other workers, are offered every
inducement to give the Arbitration principle
a fair trial. If, having once registered, they
strike, they will be fined, and the money
collected by means of a garnishee on their
future earnings. On the other hand, they
can refuse to register, and exercise man’s in-
alienable right to cease work when he feels
like it. In the Minister’s opinion, self-in-
terest will ultimately drive these wild
workers to the Court, as the place where,
after all, they can do most financial good
for themselves. On paper it is by far the
likeliest-looking industrial measure that has
.vet been presented to Australia. But. in the
last resort, its success must, of course, de-
pend on the sort of treatment it gets. There
is no industrial legislation that incompe-
tent or unsympathetic administration won’t
swiftly slay.
♦
The Rent Dragon.
Nothing in the programme of the N.S.W.
Labor Government is of more bread-and-
butter value than the proposals to use the
resources of the State to provide the people
with cheaper lodging. In this respect Ma
has hitherto shown up miserably, with the
result that every burst of prosperity has
seen the rent-payers of Sydney and suburbs
mercilessly fleeced. Even if it has to bor-
row—though there is no need for that—the
State can command money at a cheaper rate
than anybody else, and can therefore fulfil
the functions either of landlord or of build-
ing society on better terms than anybody
else. So long, however, as the State has
a revenue from land, and especially so long
as it receives a penny from the sale of pub-
lic estate, there should be no lack of coin
for the purpose. It has been a scandal that
millions of land-sales money has been used
as ordinary revenue, and scattered in police-
man’s wages and suchlike things, for which
the country has nothing at all to show. This
present Government having resolved to choke
that scandal, every penny of money derived
from the sale of one lot of assets will for
the future have to be applied either to the
reduction of existing debt, or to the purchase
of other assets. And no better or more
proper use could be found for it than in con-
nection with the housing of the people. Ac-
cording to Statistician KNibbs, last year the
N.S.W. “revenue 7 from sales alone—exclu-
sive of rentals —was £944,164; and if for a
start even half that amount were, applied to
this purpose, 1000 or 1200 workmen’s homes
could be provided in a twelvemonth, and the
investment could thereafter be fairly relied
upon to pay 4 per cent, and a sinking fund.
But equally as important as the provision of
workmen’s homes for rental is the financing
of men to secure homes of their own. Al-
ready the State, through the Government
Savings Bank, assists men to secure farms
by offering them loans at low. interest with
easy terms of repayment; and a roof is just
about as necessary to the man who toils in
a city factory, or store, or office, as a farm
is to the farmer. In South Afiatralia, where
a State Bank has been at work for 15 years,
a man can borrow £5OO to build a house, and
by paying £3B 3s. 6d. a year—say 14s. , a
week—he can become the absolute owner in
20 years. What is done in Adelaide in that
way can certainly be done in Sydney. If
that part of the community which isn’t Fat
is not a lunatic of the worst kind, it will
only need to have the facts made plain
to rush the scheme—and the main fact at
present is. that it is easily possible to buy
a home within 20 years for a less payment
per week than the private landlord now ex-
torts by way of rent. If the borrower ac-
tually threw his bargain up at the end of,
say, 10 years, he would be in pocket ; but
there is no reason why he should throw it
up. Until a few years ago surrender values
were unknown in connection with life insur-
ance ; to-day they are universal. The same
principle might easily be applied, to this
other form of home-insurance or invest-
ment ; and that would wipe out the objec-
tion of the man who says that, though he
may be able to pay to-day, he doesn’t know
whether lie will be able to pay to-morrow,
and though lie may be here this week, his
work may take him somewhere else next
week. For, if he couldn’t pay to-morrow,
his surrender value would keep the roof
over his head, while if he was forced to
leave for some other district, he could draw
a modified surrender value in cash, and the
property, reverting to the State, would be
available for some other tenant on reduced
terms that would almost command a pur-
chaser.
+
The Gorged Town.
Victoria in 1901 contained 1,201,070 people,
of whom 496,079 were in Melbourne, and
704,991 were outside Melbourne. Roughly,
the proportions were: Melbourne, 41 per
cent. ; outside Melbourne, 59 per cent. In
1911, according to the census returns just
“provisionally” counted, Victoria contains
1,315,000 persons, of whom 591,830 are in
Melbourne, and 723,170 outside the swollen
city. The proportions now are: Melbourne,
45 per cent.; outside Melbourne, 55 per
cent. In 10 years Melbourne’s population
has increased by 95,751; and the population
of the rest of Victoria by only 18,179. Dur-
ing those 10 years some millions of pounds
have been spent by the State in a frantic en-
deavor to buy land for the people to settle
on; immigrants have been sought; and all
sorts of coddling has been given to “rural
interests.” Yet the country stands still, and
all its record of big harvests and high prices
has served only to make Melbourne bloat
with a dropsical plethora of people. There-
fore Victoria needs to stand five yards away
from itself, and, contemplating itself ear-
nestly with its strongest pair of spectacles,
ask: Why won’t people go and work in the
country? And then it will find the answer in
two facts. The first is that the squatters,
who gobbled the best of Victoria with an il-
licit appetite many years ago, have never dis-
gorged, and until the Labor party passed
the Commonwealth Land Tax, no one tried to


make them disgorge. Therefore the ma
who. during the past 10 years, lias thought
of cultivating the land, has been driven out
of Victoria because of the impossibility ot
finding cultivable land at a reasonable price,
or within reasonable reach of a market, ilie
second fact is that no man could find work
in the country unless (in most cases) he
would accept the housing of a dog, the work
of a slave, and the wages of a Hindoo. Ihe
Melbourne Argus, examining the causes ot
Melbourne’s bloat, finds them in the slack-
ening of country railway-building, and in the
jumping of city business because of rich har-
vests. But these are the least of the rea-
sons. Wherever a man goes, he goes be-
cause there is something to go after. If
he drops a line into the sea, it is not in a
spirit of scientific inquiry, but because he
expects to catch a fish. If he digs a hole
in the ground, he wants gold and not mun-
dic. And the reason why men haven’t gone
into the country in Victoria is because there
is so little to go there for. There is hardly
any land available which will keep a man
in comfortable existence, for the squatters
and tfie squires have got the best of it, and
will either not pass it on at all or only do it
at an extravagant price. And for the la-
borer or “hand,” country life is generally a
slovenly sort of slavery. Oust the squatter,
and provide a decent schedule of wages and
conditions for rural workers, and then Vic-
toria will have no further need to fret that
the belly swells while the rest of the body
stays lean.
Australia Must Look After Herself.
Dear Bulletin, —A friend —once a pro-
fessor in an Australian University—who
now resides in Switzerland, but Still has a
deep interest in the Commonwealth, writes
thus from Neuchatel: —
Imperial defence is all right on paper, but, will,
never be any good in practice. Recently I had occasion
to talk to a very high Continental military man
in respect to that matter. At first he would not rip
out, but on my assuring him that I would like to hear,
his candid view he gave it to me. Here it is:—»,
“You know England is detested on the whole
Continent. Attempts are made at times to popu-
larise her, but they don’t go down. One hears of
friendly speeches in Paris, in Berlin, in Vienna —-
they arrange ententes cordiales, etc., but they are
only on paper. The people—l mean the country—
won’t have the English at any price. King Edward
came round and tried all kinds of alliances, in the 1
vain hope that one or the others of these allies might
be induced to have a go at Germany. But did they?
No, of course not. They knew quite well that they’d
have to pay for it while England remained all right
across the Channel. And Germany kept on building
her ships. Now she has set Austria going, and
between the two they’ll get ahead of Great Britain.
For all I know they may be already up to her. It
is really nonsense to think that Great Britain could
keep up with them, considering that Austria and Ger-
many have about two and a-half times as many in-
habitants as Great Britain, The masses will tell in
the end.
“Besides, look at British society: a large number
of them titled foreigners! Then look at its navy:
It has ships ; but where are the men ? Germany, as well
as Austria, has the men and reserves for every ship.
They know where they are, and with their systems
of compulsory service they can get as manv more if
they care to send them along. The British helped
Spain against Napoleon. They stuck to Gibraltar.
They helped Turkey against the Russians, and stuck
to Cyprus. They assisted Egypt, and stuck to it.
There are dozens of other cases which may
be cited in support of my argument that Europe
would not turn a finger if Britain came to the end
of its tether. We suffer them on the Continent be-
cause they bring money, but we only suffer them.
As to the Britisher himself, he is arrogant and ignor-
ant. Owing* to his rotten system of secondary edu-
cation, a number of the Continental Universities
won’t allow students to matriculate on English cer-
tificates. Ignorance tells in war time—on the wrong
side, though.
“Look abroad. India is none too safe. The
colonics will find out in war time that they need not
expect any help from England. She wants every
gun to protect herself. The Australians are quite
right in looking to themselves as their best friends.
America, you say! The President isn’t 1 America.
There are millions and millions of Germans there,
and millions of others who wouldn’t support England
against Germany. The other way round —yes!
“Arbitration! It will prove the same as King
Edward’s alliances. They came to nothing. It was
merely another attempt to run in Germany, but she
simply said ‘No,’ and there ended that affair. She
knows she has the trump cards, and she is going to
play them. What cards, you ask me! Well, Ger-
many doesn’t want any war. She,' along with
Atutria, wants peace to expand her trade — and she
does it with a vengeance. Meantime the two coun-
tries are increasing their navy and army with all
the speed they can.
“Tne end ? Germany will soon be in a position to
stop all oposition. Indeed, she could do it now. This
is the secret of the Emperor William’s love for
peace, for peace gives him the chance to put his
nets round Austria and to build a navy which need
not fear to meet Great Britain on the seas. ‘Brit-
annia rules the waves’ is merely a saying now. She
is winded, and the refusal to agree to arbitration, re-
ceived recently from Germany, shows this only too
well.”
So much for the military man. I tried to argue
against his views—but my replies did not strike
home, because he is right. Britishers have no friends
on the Continent, and as to Britain’s chance against
Germany and Austria, I would not care to back her
in cash, though if cash would do it I’d cheerfully
put my hand in my pocket. What this man said I
hear daily from others. I travel a great deal and
meet many.
If you can do it, back Australia’s navy and army.
In these two lies Australia’s only salvation. The
ship that is not in Australian waters will be of no use
to her when the struggle’ comes. Great Britain will
not be able to help her —she’ll want help herself.
For this reason I am glad that Labor men have gone
to England. They cannot be so easily caught with a
title as to overlook Australian interests.
That is the message of a man who, besides
having no anti-British prejudices, left Aus-
tralia with a deep affection for it and its
people-—a. man, moreover, of a singularly
judicial temperament, who lives where he
can not only collect evidence, but come to a
cold judgment upon it.—Yours, C.R.W.
Government by Humbug.
Between them N.S.W. Acting-Premier Hol-
man and Works Minister Griffith last
week managed to throw some more mud on
the party-Government system. Griffith
understood that his colleagues approved of
free ferries; and personally Griffith didn’t,
though he added that, of course, he would
carry out the will of the majority. There-
upon Holman burst out into a long state-
ment to the effect that a Minister’s duty
was to carry out a Government’s policy, and
not to criticise it, and if Griffith wasn’t
prepared to accept that dictum, his place
was outside the Cabinet. Prom his natur-
ally-Conservative point of view, Holman
was probably right; but it is an absurd point
of view all the same. No ten or twelve
intelligent men can be expected to have the
same opinions on every detail of a policy ;
and if they pretend to, they are merely act-
ing the hypocrite. Griffith evidently as-
sumed that he was talking to intelligent
men, who wouldn’t expect any 10 or 12 other
men to be mere machine-made fac-similes of
one another; and he didn’t pretend to be a
fac-simile of the rest. So far from discredit-
ing the Ministry, this attitude distinctly
strengthened it in public estimation. It
stripped off a lot of humbug and make-
believe, and frankly represented the Govern-
ment as consisting of intelligent entities,
each with a brain of its own, each man
throwing his individual opinion into the
common stock, each man urging whatever
view he judged from his own personal ex-
perience and reflection to be right, and yet
accepting the verdict of the majority in the
end, a'nd loyally carrying it out. If pre-
cedent be against Griffith, and with Hol-
man, so much the worse for precedent and
Holman, and so much the worse also for
the party which allows precedent and Hol-
man to lead it by the nose into sham and
dissimulation.
From the Dark Ages.
“If a man has committed a fraud, let him remain
in gaol an indefinite period. Let him remain there
at work until the heads of a special Board appointed
should tell him that he had done a fair thing, .that
he had worked for, say, four years, and had earned
by his industry the sum of £lOO or £l5O towards
wiping out the effect of his crime. Now he may go.”
A voice: Would that do away with the sentence
of the Judge?
“In most cases I should be in favor of an indeter-
minate sentence, to which, perhaps, a maximum
limit could be applied by the Judge.”— Holman,
2/6/’ll.
“I am in favor of sending a man to gaol who com-
mits adultery with a woman living with her hus-
band.”—-Holman, 3/6/’ll.
A born reactionary is YV. A. Holman, of
N.S.W., and the lurther he goes the more
anomalous he appears as head of an alleg-
edly-progressive administration. The idea of
forcing a thief to return an eye for an eye
to the person he has despoiled, goes back to
the troglodyte period. In those days pilfering
Was an offence against the individual alone;
and the latter was at liberty, if he felt
Wronged, to seize his dub and take it out
of the robber’s hide in the event of the rob-
ber having nothing worth distraining on in
ills cave. The law of retaliation was fol-
lowed by that of expiation. At a later period
the thief was compelled, by personal service
or btherwise, to repay the citizen he had de-
frauded. The modern world has given these
crude old methods the go-by, and crime is
now regarded, as it should be, as an offence
against the community. In any case the
Holman scheme of expiation is demon-
strably impracticable. A criminal bricklayer
would take years to amass a sum which an
equally guilty playwright might earn in a
few weeks. Briefly, penal institutions are
not designed to wring from their inmates
dividends for the benefit of folks whose pro-
perty the police have failed to protect; and
the Government which sets out to fix the
duration of sentences by the convict’s abil-
ity to earn money must stultify itself 150
times a day. Equally retrograde is the
notion of making adultery a criminal
offence. It is nearly as old as the scheme
of forcing a thief to stay in gaol till he has
worked off the amount of his theft, and con-
siderably more discredited. In the most
licentious days of the Roman Empire laws
were promulgated which visited adultery
with “the vengeance of the sword and pun-
ishments of the utmost severity.” Yet Dio
Cassius noted that in Rome alone, shortly
after the law of Septimus Severus, there
were 3000 charges of adultery. The gaols
of fifteenth century England were full of
adulterers. Stephen, in his “History of
the Criminal Law of England,” mentions
the case of Thomas Cotton and Dorothy
Thornton, who “spent four years in Staf-
ford Gaol in great misery’*’ for this offence.
The whole case for proceeding criminally
against a man >on such a ,score is based on
the ancient and exploded theory that the
wife is the husband’s chattel, like his dog or' >
his umbrella—a fact which is driven home
by the circumstance that gaol is never advo-
cated for men who, ruin women under a pro-
mise of marriage, or, who. take away other
men’s sweethearts—deeds which are as
anti-social on the one hand, and as exas-
perating to the wronged party on the other,
as any adultery. If the N.S.W. Government
feels it simply must manufacture a new crime,
and incidentally fill the prisons to overflow-
ing, it would do better to prescribe gaol for
those who infect others with venereal dis-
ease. More misery is caused, both to the
individual and the community, by this prac-
tice than by any offence in the Crimes Act.
:
A Cold Country Sample of Sosh.
That Commission which is inquiring as
to ways and means of carting Mel-
bourne about speedily and effectively,
has just received a report,. drawn up by the
manager of Manchester’s electric system,
which practically answers all the conun-
drums that the Commission was set to an-
swer, besides offering a powerful hint as to
the advantage of municipal over private own-
ership. Manchester, in 1895, decided to buy out
the then existing company, though it was
admittedly pretty good as companies go.
Since that was done the city has spent nearly
£2,000,000 on the repair of old and the con-
struction of new lines. Against that outlay,
there is now a sinking fund amounting to
£284,511, while the renewal and depreciation
fund has reached £422,200. The governing
policy laid down when the council took
charge was (1) to benefit the travelling pub-
lic by providing better and cheaper transit
facilities; (2) to benefit the ratepayers
through contributions out of profits; (3) to
benefit the employees by granting better con-
ditions of service. And this is how Man-
chester’s council has done it: —
(1) The public has been given increased travel-
ling facilities without regard to the mere earning
of profits; wherefore, though passengers increased
from 23 millions in 1902 to 159 millions in 1910,
the miles. of track rose in a still larger measure —-
from 20 to 181 —-and tile car mileage from
nearly two millions to 17 millions. Also the fares,
ranging from -Jd. for three-quarters of a mile and
Id. for two miles to sd. for 9 i miles, have been re-
duced an average of 40 per cent, below those charged
by the old private eo. Were those old fares in force
now, the public would be paying £500,000 per
annum more than it does for the same amount of
service.
(2) The payments out of profits towards relieving
the city rates vary from £20,000 in 1902 to
£75,000 last year, and the payments have already
aggregated £527,000. Besides all this, the Tram-
way Department pays rates ,on its track and build-
ings amounting to £34,000 a year, as compared with
£BOOO a year paid by the company.
(3) The employees’ hours have been reduced from
70 to 54, and their wages raised. Guards get 68
per cent, more and drivers 47 per cent, more than
the company paid.
As to the wages, the nominal increase ap-
pears to be not quite so much as that; but
as the municipality provides free uniforms,
free rides to and from work, one week’s holi-
day on full pay, and half-pay during sickness
for one month, and a variable amount after-
wards, the men are in reality 68 and 47 per
cent, better off respectively. Further, as
other concessions became possible, the muni-
cipality instituted reduced fares for school-
children, reduced long-distance fares, and
free travelling for blind persons; and,
finally, to supply an obvious public demand,
it introduced a parcels delivery system which,
though only a few years old, already gives
a profit of £2500 per annum. All these
things Manchester has done beyond the pos-
sibility of denial; and seeing that it pos-
sesses 181 miles of track to Melbourne’s 37,
and has a population of 800,000 as against
Melbourne’s 500,000, it looks as if the Mel-
bourne. Commission need look no further than
England’s Cotton centre for all the guidance
it requires on the question of street traffic.
♦
Pioneers of “Wet” Farming.
“J.E.W” describes the beginnings of El-
wood Mead’s “wet” farms in Northern Vic-
toria :
Settlers are dribbling into the holdings along the
Waranga-Mallee channebvays around Rochescer, es-
pecially to the east. The class of men may be
stamped as medium in most things, but superlatively
earnest. They may lack the stamina of the earlier
pioneers, but the set purpose is there. They mean
business, and what is more, most of them have saved
money under Cold Land conditions, which would
make the average- Australian swear luxuriantly.
They are clear-faced and clear-headed and optimistic.
Much good land has been allotted to such men along
the Waranga Channel, and adjacent to the irriga-
tion sucker-channels, while not far away, and near
enough to be irrigated for the greater part when
required, lies the Cornelia Creek estate, recently
Sliced. This is now carrying 82 settlers and their
dependents, as against the one homestead previously
occupied by old dead-and-gone George Simmie,
M.L.C.
Judging by the results on the Restdown and Wyuna
settlements adjacent, the “dry” farmers on Cornelia
Creek blocks should do well if the seasons continue
propitious. Some of the blocks on the erstwhile
Simmie estate (which has never been cultivated to
any extent worth mentioning) are reputed to be third-
rate land, merely fit for grazing, and poor at that.
But one never can tell. One of the Restdown blocks
went begging; no one would touch it. After a time
a local lad and his sister applied for it and got it
dirt cheap on 31 years’ terms. Behold! The first
year these two took several thousand bags of wheat
from their block, and realised enough to pay off
the whole balance of purchase money. Over 200
would-be settlers applied for the 82 blocks on Cor-
nelia Creek. They showed comfortable bank bal-
ances in almost every instance—in fact, the Chair-
man of the Land Board vowed that never had there
been such an affluent battalion of land-hungry appli-
cants in his experience in the State. Baulked in
their desires to get land at Cornelia Creek, many
are now applying for the smaller “wet” farming
blocks along the channel-ways, especially to the east
of Campaspe.
Excellent though the eastern blocks are at Nan-
nulla, perhaps the pick of the irrigation blocks are
at Bamawm, eight miles and more to the west of
the Campaspe. Vine-growing, citrus fruit raising,
and various branches of intense culture, as well as
dairying on scientific lines, may be practised with
all chances of success. A township is being sur-
vevod amidst the blocks, and land-sharks are already
sniffing round.
One thing stands to the Murray Government’s dis-
credit, and that is the lack of housing accommo-
dation on the holdings. Excepting for the farm
homesteads on the sliced* areas, there are no houses.
Hence the settlers are having their first taste of
the simple life in Australia even as the Dioneers did
of old. It will not hurt them. Tent life is
healthy—and cosy, if proporlv catered for. Of
course there are many little Cold-Country ways that
the newcomers will have to forget ere they become
properly acclimatised. The Cold-Country way of
killing pigs at home, for instance, ■ and carting the
dead carcase to probable- purchasers. Dead
swine are not welcome wares in the height of sum-
mer. But, in one matter, at any rate, the settlers
may give a lesson to the Australians. Each pays
for his own drink. They don’t “shout.”
There is- hardly a newcomer who hasn’t money to
tide him- over a bad year or two. Some have been
tenant farmers in the Cold Land. Englishmen pre-
dominate. Irish families ; (the sturdiest-looking of
the lot) are dribbling in, with a Scotch heart or two.
Yankees are few to date, and inexperienced. A
number of new-chum would-be settlers who arrived
last year have taken billets with district farmers to
get experience.
To-day the promises for the season are ideal.
Grass has been growing so that you could see it mov-
ing, thanks to the heavy unseasonable February rains.
Thus a rattling dairying season was assured. No
irrigation will be required till the height >of next
summer, at least. With so good a start, the suc-
cesses of Cohuna and Lancaster settlements, where
modest fortunes are being made on holdings of 20
acres, are likely to be repeated in the new ventures.
On the Bamawm rich lands a second Mildura is ex-
pected to rise, and Rochester promises to be a city
of importance.
It is significant that it is an ex-Australian
Governor of Bombay who has ordered the
local Turf Club to limit the number of its
racing days, and substitute the totalisator
for the “bookmaking evil.” This he does
with the purpose of diminishing gambling
among the white military and officials, and
the colored “toffs” of the Presidency. As
for the colored masses, the new gambling
edict doesn’t practically apply, seeeing that
they have no money to lose. Now, Governor
Sydenham Clarke gained his knowledge
of turf-betting in Victoria at a time when
the mitigated evil of the Tote was under
warm discussion, and when the S. Aus.
Commissioner of Police had issued a report
as to the decrease in the number of em-
bezzlements and thefts in that State since
the Tote was legalised, and bookmakers
were warned off. He saw the Tote at work
in S. Aus., and he heard the roar of the
leather-lunged parasites of racing in Vic-
toria and N. S. Wales, where, by the grace
of ear-bitten legislators, they still lay the
odds. And his experience of the two sys-
tems of gambling has led him to legalise
the machine and illegalise Ikf.y in Bombay
—for the nood of the community. Are the
Wowsers listening? And are the legisla-
tors?
—
The Orange Pup in Melbourne has been
yapping again, and, though it has as usual
yapped up the wrong tree, this time there was
something to yap at, if the terrier had only
known where to find it. Brother Snow-
ball, M.L.A., told a meeting of Protestant
Alliancers that the Customs Department re-
fused to let the “leading Nationalist paper”
from Home —good old Rome —be landed in
the Commonwealth, which astounding state-
ment was referred to Minister Tudor for
verification. Tudor explained that the
G.P.O. had once lodged a complaint against
an Italian paper—the Asino —on the ground
that its matter was “blasphemous and inde-
cent” ; but when a cony, stopped at the Cus-
toms, was inspected at the head office, no-
thing “officially objectionable” was found in
it, wherefore no hostile action was taken.
That ended the matter, so far as the Cus-
toms was concerned. But the P.M.G. ad-
mitted that an Italian publication, of which
he professed to be profoundly ignorant, had
been prohibited from passing through the
post. In short, the Postal Department
pleads guilty to putting its veto on a paper
which, according to the Customs Depart-
ment, was “officially unobjectionable” in the
only copy that the latter Department ever
scrutinised. So it remains with the P.M.G.
to show where the “indecency” or “blas-
phemy” of the vetoed Italian newspaper
comes in. In this free-thinking country the
fiery Yarra-banlc and Sydney Domain'ora-
tors are at liberty to say the rudest things
about the Almighty, and can mock at Re-
ligion and its various ministers until further
orders. Even grave agnostics are apt to
turn an honest penny by demonstrating the
futility of holiness at lecture halls on Plea-
sant Sunday afternoons. Therefore it is
certainly up to the Commonwealth P.M.G.
to account for his Department’s seizure of a
“blasphemous” newspaper, the more especially
as it was “blasphemous” in Italian, and the
ungodly language had to be explained to the
P.M.G. by an interpreter. A terrible lot of
blasphemy has been warbled by Italian
opera singers in Australian theatres at one
time or other, but the audience put a harm-
less interpretation on the words, and the re-
sult was a double encore in many cases.
Bearing this fact in mind, one would like
to know who supplied the Postmaster-Gen-
eral with the blasphemous interpretation,
and whether the interpreter’s views were
subseouently confirmed by a duly-qualified
irreligious person.
A big deputation from the Australian Cham-
bers of manufactures, which interviewed
Acting-Prime Minister Hughes last week,
got a few unpleasant truths poured into its
ear. One of the things it asked for was
a prohibition of the admission of the drugs,
etc., that contribute to race suicide. “Just
so,” replied Hughes, in effect ; “this Gov-
ernment in in complete accord with you
there. _ But so far the sole effect of such
prohibitions has been to stimulate the manu-
facture of the articles in Australia. It is
the same all round. We stopped the im-
portation of a certain alcoholic liquor in
bottles bearing labels saying it was of dis-
tinct medicinal benefit. We even confis-
cated the labels. The merchants imported
it in bulk, got labels printed here, and dis-
tributed the goods broadcast. Again, we
stopped certain pills imported under a mis-
leading label. The importers now comply
with the Commerce Act, but put the labels
on here and sell them as before. It is en-
couraging, isn’t it? We absolutely pro-
hibited the introduction of a certain article
because it was alleged to be a cure for al-
most every ailment: it is still sold every-
where, and as it isn’t imported it must be
manufactured here. Again, we blocked olive
oil which was adulterated with rapeseed.
peanut, and other cheap oils; now the mer-
chants get it in bulk, pure, and adulterate
it themselves. _ It. is the same with mus-
tard, lard, limejuice, turpentine, pepper,
neatsfoot oil, and a dozen other articles. We
would keep these substances pure, but we
have not the power—and when we asked
for more power a month or two ago, the
Chambers of Manufactures decided that we
shouldn’t have it.” Probably the manu-
facturers made a mental note to vote differ-
ently when those questions are put to them
again. If they didn’t, their requests look
a good deal like bunkum and hypocrisy.
♦
Being too fatigued to tackle the business of
penal reform itself, the Weary Government,
is now monkeying with a proposal to imnort a
‘man from England with special knewledge
of modern prison methods,” and appoint him
Inspector-General of Prisons. Simultane*
The Helot’s Cur.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A casual laborer on the wharves recently died in
the Melbourne Hospital from hunger and exposure,
and the Lost Dogs’ Home saved from a vagrant life
a fox terrier which had excited compassion by its
eager quest of the dying man, its master. Now a
lady of Adelaide has written offering to provide a
home for the terrier if they will send it to Ade-
laide by the express at her expense, and attach a
docket to the dog, recounting its history. No doubt
if thfr terrier has not yet been given a comfortable
kennel it will find its Canaan in Adelaide.— Argus.
In hospice bed they laid the Son of Sorrow,
A slave no more to be,
For when the world was flusht with dawning
morrow,
The Helot’s soul was free.
Yes here, in open day, a son of Labor,
If honest truth be said,
While Life went by with merry lute and
tabor,
Passed out for want of bread.
But stay! No hasty word of blame unkindly
Must pass our lips to-day ;
For though men sinned, perchance they acted
blindly,
In hapless human way.
And though the Lab’rer all untimely per-
ished,
To Hunger fierce a prey,
Yet, in a cosy crib, securely cherished,
His dog is safe to-day!
And should you ask us—“ Say, is this the
fashion
Wherein your toilers end?”
We yet can boast —“We do not lack compas-
sion ;
His terrier’s found a friend !”
“Was he not sent with short descriptive
docket
To some sweet, gentle soul,
Who found the cash within her kindly pocket
To'meet the canine dole?”
And though men’s record in the case before
us
Is dark with blot and blur.
Yet we can chant in sweet forgiving chorus —
ü ßehold, they saved the cyr!”
QUEENSLAND.
FURNESS BORN.


AUSTRALIAN MEAT EATERS.
Australians are such heavy meat-eaters that we are
fast becoming a nation of dyspeptics, and it is telling
on the general health of the country. Constipation
is the forerunner of this complaint, and if you have
any signs of it you should not hesitate to get' a box
of Chafnberlain’s Tablets at once. They are a posi-
tive cure for' this complaint.*
There are all sorts of devils, and of many colors;
but probably the one which can be turned to the
best account for practical purposes is the Bunyip
Forest Devil. It pulls up forest giants by the roots
as easily as a boy pulls up a turnip. For full in-
formation about this energetic imp, write John
Cooper and Sons, Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.*
B
EARD’S British-Built Bioscope,
second to none. Sole Agents—Jerdan’s
Ltd., 393 George Street, Sydney. Let us send
you particulars.*
International Patents and Trade
Marks. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street,
Melbourne, and Eagle Chambers, Adelaide.
Thirty years’ practice. Correspondence invited.*
URRINGTONS LTD.,
The Cinematograph
Supply House.
The largest assortment of CINEMATOCRAPHS AND
FILMS always in stock by the World’s best makers.
If you want to procure a better supply of Films than
you are obtaining at present, get into communication
with us and state your requirements. Our Film
Library is the largest in the Commonwealth.
We are the people to give you satisfaction.
SYDNEY-MELBOURNE—BRISBANE— ADELAIDE.
Motor Car Repairs.
Promptly, Efficiently,
and at Reasonable Rates.
INVINCIBLE MOTOR
CONSTRUCTION CO., LTD.,
Works: WOOLWICH DOCK, SYDNEY.
SYDNEY Office and Showroom : 35 PITT STREET.
MELBOURNE : 519 LITTLE COLLINS STREET.
ADELAIDE: BANK,STREET.
NOTICE TO AGENTS.
Owing to Coronation Day falling
on Thursday, 22nd inst., “ The
Bulletin ” for that date will be
published on Wednesday, 21st.
Felton, old “Jimmy” Tyson’s favorite
property, and his home so far as he ever had
any one in particular, is to be auctioned in
farms at Toowoomba (Q.) on June 29. Ty-
son, having a few thousands burning his
pockets, looked over the Darling Downs close
on 40 years ago, picked Felton as the place
he wanted to buy, and set his wits to work
to get it. The results he won from it made
him fonder of it than ever. The subdi-
viders are offering remarkably liberal terms :
the purchaser of a block pays 15 per cent,
down, and then he needn’t pay any more
principal for 10 years.
James Ashcroft, Wellington’s (M.L.) old
coroner and official assignee in bankruptcy, who
died there not long ago, always had a soft spot in
a big heart for the man who “filed his shovel,”
holding strongly to the opinion that the default
to pay was generally due to anything but ras-
cality. He was continually impressing this view
upon creditors, and many a bankrupt had to
thank him for totally unhoped for conditions.
One time he was examining a country carter who
stated that the main cause of his bankruptcy was
the loss within a short period of four horses
valued af £4O or £5O each. Turning benignly on
the creditors, the assignee said : “ Well, gentle-
men, you know it's hard enough to work off one
dead horse, let alone four.” The meeting agreed
that it was, and that’s the last the carter heard of
his indebtedness.
The youths whom the Australian Military
College will train up in the way a soldier ought
to go are mostly a fine lot of young Australians.
The giant of the present crowd is a Claremont
(W.A.) youth, by name Selby. Though only 17,
he stands 6ft. 3in. in his socks, goes 40in. round
the chest, and is built in proportion. George
Capes, a Victorian youth, runs him close, being
6ft. 2in. high, 38in. round the chest, and 18 years
of age. College-made officers in older countries
frequently turn out snobs, but these youths don’t
threaten to shape that way. The post of first
Cadet Captain falls to E. H, Biden, a brainy lad
from the Ma State. ,
Perfumes
As supplied to H.M.
QUEEN ALEXANDRA.
Sweet Pea
Blossom.
Lily of the
Valley
Natural.
Night*
Scented
Stock.
The Zenobia Per-
fumes charm
everyone by their
absolute fideltiy
to Nature arid,
their Refreshing
and Lasting
Fragrance.
Manufactureu at the Zenobia Laboratories, Lough-
borough, England. To be obtained from leading
Chemists and Stores.
Wholesale Agents for Australia:
THE AUSTRALIAN MFC. & IMPORTING CO. LTD.,
108 Pitt Street,'Sydney.
ously the Indeterminate Sentences Board is
urging the Government to set apart 200
acres of the Werribee Park estate and build
a reformatory thereon. The Indetermin-
ate Sentences law came into force nearly
three years ago, in July, 1908, and already
some 40 persons have been sentenced under
it —and that is all. The whole essence of
the Indeterminate Sentence policy was re-
form —the correction and training of youth-
ful first-offenders, and the regeneration,
where possible, of habituals. But as no
provision has been made for the regenera-
tion, the Act has become a dead letter. Now
the usual foreign expert is to be brought to
the rescue. Fifty experts cannot, how-
ever, produce the reforms, which cost
money. All they can do is to tell the Go-
vernment what it ought to do. But Parlia-
ment has already done that; it did it when
it passed the Indeterminate Sentences law.
The whole trouble is that the Parliament’s
instructions have been allowed to slide. The
Weary Government wants a scheme that
won’t cost any money, or any work —and
there isn’t any such scheme. So, until the
Administration is changed, it is useless to
import a man to propound schemes. Vic-
toria doesn’t want him anyhow; what it
does want is a Government that isn’t too
lazy to do the bullocking work which is
necessary to give effect to the schemes that
have been propounded and authorised
already.
+
The black-and-white ants that infest law
courts and “chambers” ate a hole through
the bottom of another piece of Wade’s “Re-
form” legislation the other day. In the
late Government’s Act dealing with news-
papers and libel, it was provided that a per-
son who considered himself aggrieved might
come along and demand of a newspaper the
name of the writer of the allegedly-offensive
article. One or two such applications had
been side-stepped on one ground or another;
but at last Justice Ferguson had to
say something definite on the subject. And
what Justice Ferguson did say was that the
Act didn’t oblige the Court to order the
newspaper to let the cat out of the bag;
therefore, the matter being left to the discre-
tion of the Court, the Court wouldn’t order
the cat to be let loose unless the other party
showed that he would be prejudiced in his
action if he couldn’t see the cat. And as
the application to view the cat is, in 99 cases
out of 100, a mere fishing expedition, there
isn’t much left of that particular provision
of Wade’s reform.
♦
Within the last week or so the jumpy sub-
ject of ramshackle boilers has been shot into
the -Ma State’s eye by two explosions and a
letter from the Engine Drivers and Firemen’s
Association, pointing out that there are quite
a lot of steam bombs installed in busy cen-
tres. Anyone requiring a boiler may buy
any old second-hand thing and work it at
any pressure he likes to risk; so that when
a boiler is condemned and shot out of one
shop, a more frugal soul usually buys it and
puts it into commission somewhere else, with
out the Law raising as much as an eyelid.
Mine boilers have to be tested periodically
by competent men, under Government au-
thority ; but the little manufacturer in the
back iane, or the farmer in the backblocks,
is allowed to threaten life and Proputty
with a shaking cylinder of rust until his
nerve gives way, or his engine-driver waits
on him with his hair standing on end, and
reports that Sheol is imminent. If Bruce
Smith really wants to see an Anarchist in
the' flesh, he might call round on one of these
boiler-owners some day when steam is up.
But it would do far more good if an in-
spector called round with a new Land
Boilers Inspection Act.
Most ludicrous is the false pathos with
which the Anti-Labor daily seeks to stir up
sympathy on behalf of the absentee Austra-
lian, unjustly smitten, so it is claimed, by
the Federal Government’s land-tax. For
instance
Parliament has struck a blow at all capital owned
outside of Australia. Now, even if it be granted
that an Australian, after, perhaps, many years of
hard pioneering work in the Commonwealth, is not
fairly entitled, having made his money, to live
where he chooses, this certainly does, etc.
It suggests the flat, bald query: How many
Australians, who have achieved fortunes in
this country by pioneering, settle down
abroad ? On all the available evidence the
answer is: None! It is not the Abbey
Dangars, Horsfalls and Horderns, of
N.S/W - ., nor the original Clarkes, Buck-
leys and Manifolds, of Victoria, nor the
Barr-Smiths, of South Australia, who take
up their permanent abode in the United
Kingdom as soon as they amass sufficient
money. In practically every case the con-
firmed absentees are the non-working
descendants of old-time land-snatcliers
or rum-vendors, euphemistically known as
“pioneers”—the Coopers, of N.S.W., the
Wilsons, of Victoria, and so on. A cer-
tain amount of more or less legiti-
mate pathos might be squeezed by a skilful
hand out of the case of an industrious
ancient mercilessly taxed by a tyrannous
Government, because he elected to pass his
evening elsewhere than in the Common-
wealth. But to apply the gag to the oldster’s
descendants, many of whom have never seen
Australia, or done a vestige of pioneering
anywhere, is trenching closely on the
idiotic.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Jack and the Beanstalk.”
Royal “ The Balkan Princess.”
Criterion “The Gay Gordons.”
Adklpiii “ Under Two Flags.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Palace West’s Pictures.
New Princess’s West’s Pictures.
Lyceum Spencer’s Pictures.
Lyric Continuous Pictures.
Colonial (Nos. 1 & 2).. Continuous Pictures.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “ Nobody’s Daughter.”
Her Majesty’s “Our Miss Gibbs.”
Royal “The Woman in the Case.”
King’s “A Woman of Pleasure.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co,
West’s Palace West’s Pictures.
Glaciarium Sousa Band.
Olympia Spencer’s Pictures.
Lyric, Prahran Photo Plays. ,
Although “The Dollar Princess” is still
declaring dividends at the Sydney Royal, the
managing directors have decided to with-
draw the script on Friday, and -on Satur-
day “The Balkan Princess” will be floated on
the exchange of public opinion. Judged by
the prospectus, the new Princess will be
worth early investigation.
i at * *
If a solvent Sydneyite has not visited
“Jack and the Beanstalk” there is a prima-
facie case against him of being an incorri-
gible Wowser. The show has not many more
nights to run at Her Majesty’s, and citizens
who desire to evade a humiliating slur must
therefore take speedy action.
* at * *
“The Gay Gordons” continues to do ex-
cellently at Sydney Criterion. In the words
of the advt., “it is gay”—and surely the
advt. should know.
at at at *
Sydney Adelphi continues to do fair busi-
ness with ‘‘Under Two Flags.” The new
thriller, “Driving a Girl to Destruction,” is
almost ready for its run; but the starting
date had not been announced up to the time
this Bulletin dived through the presses in
search of its pink overcoat.
at at at at
The musical Columbia Comedy Trio and
the juggling Kavanagh Boys are heading
the hill at Sydney Tivoli. Fanny Powers
came back last week with a few new imita-
tions, and brought the Australian Dartos
with her; the advertisement respectfully
mentions both turns in capital letters. Other
performers still available are Eunice and
Zena (girl instrumentalists), Blanche Char-
meroy (of Paris and the piano), and Ted
Kalman. The introduction and finale to the
first part are still being performed with great
solemnity, the ladies responsible cleverly
managing to keep the audience from over-
hearing the words of the ancient ritual.
“THE GAY
GORDONS
AT THE
SYDNEY CRL
The comic family that WILI. he funny. Mother
(Nellie Cozens) and son (David Jefferson),
with father waiting to he funny.
On Monday, the 12th, the programme at
Sydney Lyric will be strengthened by the
Vitagraph Co.’s representation of Dick-
ens’s “Tale of Two Cities”—the thrilling
story of the French Revolution. This great
production, among the best of the world’s
photo-plays so far produced, will be shown
in addition to the ordinary programme with-
out any increase in the price of admission.
** * *
The star item this week at Sydney Lyceum
is the “Life and Death of Robert Emmett.”
Robert was a fine figure of a man, and the
dress of the period was evidently designed
by someone who had a good leg, or thought
he had. The feature next week will be a
“Trip to Hobart,” showing the beauty spots
of the Apple Island and all the best places to
visit. Dickens’s “Tale of Two Cities” will
also be shown.
** * *
Sousa’s band at the Glaciarium is mak-
ing large audiences swing in rhythm to its
bracing marches. Occasionally Wagner,
Weber and Tschaikowsky are introduced for
the good of the higher musical soul, but
Weber’s “Invitation h la Valse” and the
“Lohengrin” fantasia do not find the re-
sponse that follows the stirring “Stars and
Stripes,” or “Washington Post,” or even
that embroidered futility, the “Hobomoko”
march. Among the soloists, Herbert Clarke
has been blowing some radiant notes from
his treasured cornet, and Miss Zedeler left
the audience in frantic admiration for her
violin melodies. The soprano voice of Miss
Root was rather lost in an immense glorified
crypt like the Glaciarium, though her sing-
ing of “Annie Laurie” gave her an immedi-
ate hold on the affections of the crowd. As
for Sousa himself, it is hard to tell whether
the veneration for the man is not aroused
by the conspicuous cleverness of his methods.
Anyhow, there is no doubt about the goods
he delivers.
sis * * *
In “Our Miss Gibbs,” at Her Majesty’s,
the very English smile of Miss Blanche
Browne—a smile crowded from end to end
with pearls—gives no evidence of diminish-
ing, although she has been scattering it in
the same opera in Australia and elsewhere
ever since Miss Gibbs first went into busi-
ness. Melbourne has settled down to a pro-
longed indulgence in Gibbs, which is a kind
of habit, like opium-eating or sipping gin.
** * *
Melbourne is understood to be taking the
useful moral of “The Woman in the Case”
seriously to heart, and the Wowsers have
not felt .called upon to unduly exert them-
selves since the Fitch play went on. Men
perceive that the lesson taught is the advisa-
bility of avoiding sirens with hair like a
flaming lucifer, and are carefully searching
for this particular tint in rich auburns,
with the deliberate intention of abjuring it.
So far the hunt for the missing hair is un-
availing. Really, as a fascinator, Claire
Forster does not strike Melbourne as likely
to satisfy a cultivated taste. She might be
a success in a private bar frequented by
jockey boys and shilling bookmakers, but
scarcely anywhere else. However, in an im-
personal way, the appeal of a thoroughly
bad woman in a remarkably good gown is
practically unlimited, and Royal audiences
are keeping the house warm these chill even-
ings.
** * «
With “A Woman of Pleasure” looming as
next Saturday’s attraction at the Melbourne
King’s, this journal lias only to dismiss “The
Executioner’s Daughter” with a few well-
chosen words of regret, spoken on behalf of
the students of the foolish in drama, who
will be sorry to lose this tumbled creation of
liill-Mitchelson’s brain. Quite apart from
its unbridled fancy, the play presents in
Felice Roche one of those grand villainesses
whose faces are paintings, and whose pasts
are problems. Felice is capable of any-
thing. Her crimes range from arson to at-
tempted murder, and her moderate faults em-
brace lying, deceit and petty larceny. As
an artist in sin she is at the top of her class ;
even Satan might take lessons from her with
advantage to himself and his many disciples.
* * *
Reginald Wykeham is fairly established
in that numerous and rapidly increasing
class, the theatrical managers of Australia.
His initial venture at Melbourne Princess’s
encourages him to go further, in the hope
of faring no worse. “Seven Days” has
drawn well, if not amazingly. Maud Chet-
wynd, as _ the young wife galvanised by a
solitary nip, is a remarkable enlargement of
the gossamer Maud who not so very long
ago frisked with the Royal Comics. She is
now quite a good all-round actress—any-
how, she’s an all-round actress. Her version
of a conventional young middle-class matron
infused with the spirit of a Martini cocktail
is commended to Willie Judkins and those
whom it may concern as a harmless and
edifying jag. All “Seven Days” wants to
round it off is a concerted effort on the part
of the famished household to bake Officer
Flannigan for lunch. The comedy run ter-
minates prematurely on Friday night. On
Saturday night Harry Plimmer and Mrs.
Brough give events at the Princess’s a
serious turn with “Nobody’s Daughter.”
** * *
This week’s programme at the Opera
House is twin-brother to last week’s bill.
R ; A. Roberts is still “Ringing the Changes”
with the aid of a dummy and several shifts
of. clothes. _ The two Lillies repeat their
mirror illusion, and Godfrey James continues
to raise his voice two or three miles above
his hat. Also, Peggy Pryde is the same old
Peggy, whose whimsical mouth still flouts the
early-closing legislation.
m * *
“Henry VIII.” has been running at West’s
Building, Melbourne, pursued by an enter-
taining bunch of other films. Among the
latter were some interesting scenes in Al-
giers, and a lively drama of Yankee extrac-
tion. Crowding into this picture are des-
peradoes, gamblers, and an “Injun,” with an
overpowering crop of virtue and lank, oiled
hair. The Red, it is seen, is the hero of
the piece, and, sure enough, he dies in the
melee to show his regard for a kindly boss.
** * *
The Prahran Lyric (Vic.) is offering
varied fare. In addition to the usual com-
edy and travel subjects, the Lyric people
show weekly editions of “Pathe’s Gazette,”
French and Italian dramas in color, and pic-
tures of star acrobatic turns, as well as the
instructive industrial films. Each Friday
evening, also, grand opera is screened, with
suitable music supplied by the band. This
week the Friday feature is Gounod’s “Faust,”
and next week there will appear a pictorial
veision of “I Pagliacci.”
«* * *
“Paid in Full” has run the regulation
week at Adelaide Royal. Desmond caught
“SEVEN days," AT
MELBOURNE
PRINCESS'S.
ROBERT
GREIG, AS
JAMES
WILSON,
SITS
DOWN FOR
A WHILE.
the public fancy at once, notwithstanding
that Americanisms such as “He- is long on
putting down them talk-fests” were Hebrew
to 98 per cent, of every audience. The play,
though good, is not so good as the players.
In particular, these modern American dram-
atists seem “short on” last acts. Eugene
Walter might easily have tacked an extra
half-minute on to the end of Act 3, and made
the weak Act 4 unnecessary. Thus: Captain
Williams being left alone by Emma and
“Jimsy,” his telephone rings. “Hullo. No,
she’s not. She’s just gone. What’s that?
Shot himself? Is he dead? Thanks. Well,
that’s the best thing he ever did in his life.
I wonder how long Jimsy will let her wear
mourning.” (Curtain.) “The Third De-
gree,” which made its Australian first ap-
pearance in Adelaide, is now being revived.
The Tivoli has a strong programme for
Birthday Cup time. The Zanfrellas, hand-
some and incredibly supple, continue their
feats on the pillar, and Reichen’s clever dogs
do ground tumbling. Sam Elton gets roars
of laughter cheaply—well, say simply—by
crockery smashing, always a safe card to
play. Holt and Miss Cromer-Challis are
other desirable performers. The King’s pegs
away with vocal or instrumental or elocu-
tionary recitals, and pictures are getting
almost beyond counting. West’s have the
sensation of the moment with “ Henry
VIII.,” showing Tree, Miss Vanbrugh, and
Bourchier’s beard specially grown for the
part.


PIKE BROTHERS LIMITED.
4^
THE GENUINE
“FLAXITE FIBRE”
SUIT CASES.
Two Brass Double Action Locks; Leather
Capped ; will resist the most severe handling.
BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE, TOOWOOMBA and LONDON
For All
Seasons
WOLFES
SCHNAPPS.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“0.K.”: It is quite reasonable for musical en-
thusiasts to argue that the visible presence of Sousa
is distracting to those who would concentrate their
minds on the tumult of Sousa’s Band. They can
escape the distraction only by closing their eyes
or turning their backs, which latter alternative
might entail worse distractions. And why is this
thus? Because custom demands that the conductors
of concert orchestras shall display themselves to the
audience like conductors at theatres, whose presence
in the'midst of the instrumentalists and in front of
the singers is indispensable. Yet, the concert-
orchestra conductor were better placed in a signal-
box at either corner of the platform, waving his in-
structions to performers ranged on the bias, so to
speak. A view of Sousa and his movements is un-
necessary to a critical enjoyment of his band’s
achievement. At the theatre we don’t demand a view
of the stage-manager and ballet-mistress directing a
fine spectacular performance which owes all the
charm of its effect to their rehearsals. “Open your
ears and shut your eyes, and hear, what Sousa will
send you,” would be the Press’s exhortation to the
public, if the public were listening for novelties in
concerted music sounds. But the public is just look-
ing for Sousa, the creator of the band, and is fed
with personal paragraphs accordingly.
Bland Holt and suite are a-wing for Australia
again. The betting is 10 to 1 that Bland has seen
things which be feels impelled to confer on Anti-
podean audienpes across the fierce, white footlights.
“Bowbell”: Gilbert’s talent—or genius, if you will
■ —had its limits. He could not put an ounce of
genuine human feeling in his writing, and never
touched the heart at all. He was somewhat eminent
as a Greek scholar, and perhaps that made him too
metallic. His numerous and excellently-written
comedies had no spark of the touch of nature that
makes the whole world kin, except when he borrowed
it from George Eliot, with his Dan’l Druce. His
best work was in pieces that failed through this lack
of humanity. Credit him, on the other hand, with a
noble and invariable cleanness, like that of Scott,
Dickens and Thackeray. He could not pen an evil
line, although a few of his conceits might make
ladies squirm a little, as when the Arcadian, in
“lolanthe,” is half man and half fairy. As a pro-
ducer, he had all the knack of his model, Tom Rob-
ertson. The run of the Gilbert and Sullivan operas
would never have started but for Gilbert’s “pro-
ducing,” his inexorable and arbitrary stage-manage-
ment. What looked like impossibility and fatuity
must be done under his unerring judgment. The
trinity of Gilbert, Sullivan and Carte was matchless.
Mrs. Carte, known professionally as Miss Lenoir
(maiden name, Miss Black), was invaluable, too;
she stood next to Gilbert in the producing. Gros-
smith was the acting backbone, but Gilbert drilled
him to the finest point, allowing him no initiative.
He was implacable. At the premiere of the “Mikado”
Mrs. . Carte said to Gilbert: “Wonderful! Barring-
ton is singing in tune.” Gilbert: “Only the ner-
vousness of a first night.”
H. HENNINGHAM,
MUSICAL
DIRECTOR
FOR “SEVEN
DAYS,” AT
MELBOURNE
PRINCESS'S.
“Busk”: Reviewing Gilbert and Sullivan in Aus-
tralia, the first mention must be given to Vernon.
Above all shone his Bunthorne and Ko-Ko,
though his Lord Chancellor and Major-General Stan-
ley. were good. Vernon brought Ko-Ko from
Japan. Verdi’s Grosvenor, in “Patience,” was
happy. No performer who saw him could
get out of an imitation. AndrSe Navaro’s Lady
Jane was powerful—“ Sing hey, Gooday!”—and Celia
Ghiloni was not far behind. But of all the ladies
Nellie Stewart, in “Princess Ida,” was best. Alice
Rees was the Patience in all innocence and sim-
plicity. Bob Brough’s Lord Chancellor was match-
less, and Thornton’s almost equalled Vernon’s.
Ryley shone as the Gondolier. Riccardi is not for-
gotten as Sir Joseph Porter, and Lauri’s work in
that was his best bit of Gilbert. Finally, Vernon’s
Grand Inquisitor, in “The Gondoliers,” flashes across
my mind.
The late W. S. Gilbert was guilty of one dramatic
criticism. Asked what he thought of a great actor’s
“Hamlet,” he said: “Splendid performance. Funny,
without being vulgar.”
“Petramos”: We had sauntered in from Poverty
Point to a Bourke-street bar on the day Henry
Irving’s death was announced. Sorrowfully address-
ing his fellow-“artists,” the hero of many melo-
dramas thundered cheerfully: “Well, boys, another
of us gone."
DEATH.—Last week, at their late residence, Syd-
ney, the Beloved Hopes of Sunday entertainment pro-
moters, ' in the first year of the Labor Government.
By request, no Flowers.
Wondergraph, Ltd., an Adelaide picture concern,
is encouraging local talent, and now shows the
“Wondergraph Weekly,” comprising all-Adelaide in-
cidents, photographed by H. Krisehock, who, a few
years ago, didn’t know a camera from a crowbar.
He was clerk in Quiz office when he first experi-
mented with a hand-camera. He quitted Quiz when
the- Critic, under McKain, began to illustrate lav-
ishly. Now he serves S’Langdon’s Advertiser, and
is in the first flight of Press photographers—and
there are not many in that flight. The inquest after
the gruesome Towitta tragedy was held in a shed.
Detective Priest, holding a piece of hair between his
fingers, was seeking to prove that it was human,
when he was staggered by Krischock’s, “One moment,
please.” The fiend escaped whilst the Court was con-
sidering to what extent its dignity had been mal-
treated.
Joe Blascheck, the monologue entertainer lately
returned to Australia after many years, graduated
for the profesh at the old Dagonet Club, Melbourne.
The Dagonet had a number of bright young men on
its roll some 15 or 20 years ago, _ and several of
them are now something to speak of in the theatrical
world. Blascheck was one leading light; another
was Jo Smith, who of late years has done respectable
work as an Australian dramatist. Albert Whelan,
the gifted versatile mimic and actor, gave some of
his first performances when he was a Dagonetian;
and among other young bloods of the club were
F. W. Newby (who took up Wilson Barrett’s run-
ning in England), Reg. Robins (nowadays scenic
artist for Anderson), and Bert Levy (the black-and-
white artist who went to America and made his mark
as a lightning-sketeher on the vaudeville stage).
Alfred Deery, the tall and spry young Australian
baritone who "more than holds his own among the
importations of “The Gay Gordons” Co., is said to
be leaving shortly to try his luck in the land the
importations came from.
“0.K.”: How beautifully untrue to fact are some
of the bouquets which a theatrical management
casts at its own show! For instance, Clarke and
Meynell’s florist a while ago supplied the interesting
allegation that “The Gay Grisette” gave Robert
Courtneidge a great lift in business. The story was
that Courtneidge, after leaving Australia, took “The
Gay Grisette” in hand, and toured it for many years.
“It was an enormous success, and with the money
derived from this source he embarked in managerial
enterprise in London, where, with ‘The Arcadians,’
he has reached the very top of the tree.” And he
owed it all to “The Gay Grisette.” Now, the truth
of the matter is that when Courtneidge tried his luck
with the “Grisette” many years ago, he had no suc-
cess with it. It lost him all the money he could
afford. In after years he had better luck with “The
Blue Moon,” but his first notable hit in musical
comedy management in London was “The Dairy-
maids,” after which he scored more honor than finan-
cial glory with “Tom Jones.” Then came “The
Arcadians,” which has passed its second year at the
Shaftesbury Theatre, and earned a pile of money for
him. When that charmingly uncommon opera has
exhausted its present vogue in London, he will pro-
duce a Japanese musical play, which is to be a
gorgeous thing, and has been in rehearsal for some
time. It will come to light in September probably.
“Ajacks”: Recent “Poverty Point” par. mentions
that Howard Edie is doing well in S’Africa. I knew he
would do well somewhere. Last time I saw him he
was one of the two members of the Howard Edie
Dramatic Co., doing the backblocks of S.A. The
play was “The Bells,” and I fancy Edie played 15
parts. I am sure he played eight, but the other
seven were confusing, because Edie would sometimes
swerve round quickly and answer his own remark,
and it was difficult to keep count. There were bells
behind scenes. When both Edie and his assistant
were on the stage, I think Edie rang the bells with
his foot. The audience didn’t much care for tragedy,
and yelled for something brighter, whereupon the
versatile actor told them of the Irish actor playing
“Hamlet.” Hamlet’s audience tired of the bard, and
demanded “Pat Molloy and the Roisin’ Shtep.”
Hamlet shouted: “Damn yer ois! Wotcher expect
for toppence?” The audience (Edie’s) hardly ap-
preciated the point of the story, but it liked the
fearless use of the “Damn,” and thereafter was his
very good friend.
“C. Ockney”: If “Ancient Pistol” (B. 18/5/’ll)
can possess his soul in patience for a few months, he
will in all probability have the opportunity of en-
joying once more. his “rousing, supremely-actable
Henry V.” It is one of Lewis Waller’s best parts,
and Waller is due here next year. By-the-way, what
a pity that “Monsieur Beaucaire” will not be avail-
able to its original exponent! If there is anything
more satisfying than Waller’s exquisite performance
of this part, the-present scribe would be glad to
know of it —and then he wouldn’t believe it.
“Carmine”: “Perdita” Robinson, by Hoppner, has
been added to the Melbourne Art Gallery, at a cost
of a trifle of £3OOO, paid out of the Felton Be-
quest. “Perdita’s” maiden name was Mary Darby;
the surname had been arbitrarily changed from
McDermott by some ancestor. Born in Bristol, she
was married at 16, under the vain delusion that
Robinson had coin. Finding he had none, she went
on the stage, by Garrick’s advice, and did extremely
well as Juliet and Perdita, and in numerous other
parts. Yet she left the stage at 22, having become very
friendly with the Prince of Wales of those days be-
fore he was of age—so very friendly that he gave her
a post-obit on his father for £20,000. She never
seems to have attempted to use it. In later years
she wrote poetry and novels, and the books had a
large sale through the princely aroma —which, by-
the-way, she was fond of introducing obliquely. A
heap of lies have been told about her ; in fact, it is
hard work to disentangle the truth —except that she
was very beautiful and was painted often by such as
Reynolds, Gainsborough, Romney, Hoppner, and
Cosway.
“L.H.P.”: With so much Sousa in the air, why
doesn’t someone put on one of his operas—“El Capi-
tan” for preference? New York saw the entertain-
ing work in 1896, and London in 1899. It is the
best of his dozen operas. De Wolf Hopper, “the
’Murkan comedian,” was the star of “El Capitan,”
which breaks delightfully fresh stage ground, the
locale being Peru during the Spanish conquest in the
15th century, and naturally the clothes-man and the
scene-painter have a glorious chance. Chas. Klein,
author of “The Third Degree,” wrote the libretto,
which is wedded to some of the sprightliest of the
March King’s music.
“Brither Scot”: I said that, in the play, the line
“M” foot’s upon my native heath,” etc., was Helen
McGregor’s and not Rob Roy’s. “Taree” (B. 1/6/11)
says it is Rob’s, and refers to Scott. This. is the
reg’lar thing in Glasgie, ye ken. Sawney refers to
Rob Roy’s speech. Tougal declares that Helen
McGregor says it. Bang goes saxpunce down as a
wager. Sawney comes up with the buik of the novel
and Tougal with the buik of the play. It is referred
to Andrew. He decides that the point is too ab-
struse. So the saxpunce is liquidated in three small
noggins of Glenlivet.
“Philoyid”: I wrote of the two remarkable Yid-
dish theatrical performances given last year in the
Melbourne Temperance Hall, under the direction of
Weisberg, a Yid actor and manager, from N’York.
Success has emboldened him to obtain a professional
Yid co. from New York. They will appear once
a week for six months in the Temperance Hall
(Melb.), and will be seen also in Sydney. The
rdpertoire is extensive; there are peculiar Yid dra-
mas, such as adaptations of “Leah the Forsaken” and
the opera of “The Jewess,” by the Hebrew com-
poser Halevy, with the adapted plays of such au-
thors as Shakspeare and Schiller. Although last
year the houses were pretty good, the shows were
very poorly advertised. Now some capitalists are
in it, so there will doubtless be proper advertisement.
Quite a rush may therefore ensue, as the New
York actors and actresses will peg in with an
energy like that with which the Sicilian players
startled London.
Southern Cross (W.A.) talks of having a theatre,
and the local Times says: “The concern is to be run
on very strict lines. No gentlemen without socks
will be admitted, and the management reserves the
right to fumigate anyone before admittance when
deemed advisable. It will thus be seen that the
venture deserves every success, and that it is sure to
fill a long-felt want.”
The benefit to the Hagans at the Melbourne Royal
was marked by the production of a playet by a Mel-
bourne pressman,, Alfred Buchanan. The piece,
“Straws in the Wind,” enacted by two or three
members of the Anderson co., has a rather worn
plot, but its satire is keen. The principal character
is a politician, Edmund Bulstrode, who in one scene
is represented as discussing with his secretary cer-
tain political missives and invitations—among them
a request for his presence at a dinner “to meet the
Archbishop of Melbourne and Mr. John Wren.”
“Grant 0. L.”: Mick Jones was a good milk-carter
but a rotten actor. Occasionally a suburban touring
co. would give him a small part and a chance to
make an ass of himself. Vhen the Montague Swaggers’
All Star Combination came round to Mick’s suburb,
he was allotted the part of the faithful old body-
servant in the Russian thriller, written by Swaggers
himself, and entitled “To the Death.” On the first
night, in the great scene where Swaggers, as the
travelling Englishman, fumes to his factotum about
the villainous Grand Duke’s insult, Mick stood limply
before his boss with bent knees and open mouth, like
an exhausted cab horse. This attitude was under-
stood to represent rapt attention. “I must fight
him,” screamed Swaggers to Mick. “This insult
must be wiped out in blood!” And right there a
brisk, business-like voice from the gallery said:
“Mick, leave ’arf a pint o’ blood t’morrer!” ,
GEORGE MARLOW. PURVEYOR OF
MELODRAMA .
The Dance du Vaurien was out of the Miss Gibbs
menu at Melbourne Majesty’s for a few nights, Ivy
Schilling having damaged a toe. Understudies have
all been failures in this dance. The management
reluctantly confesses it cannot get change for its’*
Schilling.
Official list of the plays which Gregan McMahon’s
Melbourne Repertory Theatre is going to grapple
with: “The Return of the Prodigal” (Hankin), “In-
tCrieur” (Maeterlinck), “Chains” (Baker), “Labore-
mus” (Bjornsen), “The Comedy of Errors” (Shaks-
peare), “The Night Shelter” (Gorky), “The Trojan
Woman” (Euripides), “The Poor Gentleman” (Cole-
man), “The Voysey Inheritance” (Granville Barker),
“Justice” (Galsworthy), “Le Monde ou l’on s’ennuie”
(Pailleron), “Candida” and “You Never Can Tell”
(Shaw), and “The Wild Duck,” “The Doll’s House”
and “An Enemy of the People” (Ibsen). Plays by
local scribes will be considered as they come along.
“The Minister for Grace and Elegance”: Was con-
sidering the repulsive lumpishness of a toe-dancer’s
feet the other night, and wondering sympathetically
what the poor thing did for her dreadful corns, when
a whispered argument started in the seat ahead.
The gentleman contended that the performer’s foun-
dations had been deformed by dancing; the lady was
firmly of the opinion that she had plugged the toes of
her dancing stockings with wadding. I looked at the
laborious stilted circling of the rigid skirted figure,
and decided that, however it was accomplished, it
wasn’t worth while. The ballet dancers who used to
flutter about the stage on their toes with one of the
bygone Italian Opera Cos., made the painful style
of dancing look easy and pleasant; the quick, bird-
like run from the back of the stage to the footlights
used to astonish and delight the audiences —it was as
if the dancer had suddenly been lifted on to a pair
of noiseless skates, so graceful and effortless did it
appear. That was the perfection of art. The oc-
casional toe-dancer, who elevates herself nowadays,
gives a sort of ugly endurance test. Whether the
lumpiness of her feet is due to corns or wadding I
don’t know; but they certainly are not decorative,
and I am going to take some steps about it —to
music, of course.
The entry at the Strand registry office runs this
way: “Pearl Ola Jane Mordant, formerly Humphrey,
spinster, aged 27, the divorced wife of Edwin Mor-
dant.”
The vehicle of the road-hog is now known
to the walking class as the murder car.
The police-court at Millicent (S.A.) held
the other day—following a recent English prece-
dent—that “a single damn was sufficient founda-
tion for a charge of indecent language.” And no
doubt it swore the witnesses on the Sacred Book,
as usual —the book of the hundred damns.
Australia is getting large, unsolicited tes-
timonials from a German named Broeg, who
represents Count Castell, the head of the pencil
firm of Faber. Broeg, who hails from Nurem-
berg, paid two visits'to the Commonwealth, and
became so enamored of its climate, resources and
prospects that he appointed himself Australia’s
Spruicher-in-Ordinary to the German nation.
At Nuremberg and Berlin allegedly huge audi-
ences are reported to have listened to his lectures
with wolfish appetite.
“ Percival Hardcash ” (from Stockholm):
Driven out of Australia by Socialistic legislation
—and other things—l said to myself : “ Now let
me never be reminded of the cursed country
again.” So I went ski-ing at Sartsliog, in Swe-
den, and one day saw a pink streak in the snow.
Picking it up, I found it was the best part of an
unmentionable Australian paper. Can I never
get out of way of the vile thing ! I kept the rag
—a mere oversight—and I dare say it made me
mention Australia. My friend was a Swedish
banking magnate. “How pitiful,” said he,
“ that so large a country should have no material
from which to make iron and steel! ” “Ah! ” I
said. “ How did you discover our secret ? ” Oh,
he had met many travelling Australians— “ and,
besides, if you had the raw materials, of course
you would use them, and, as you don’t, they must
certainly be right.”- I sniffed, and smelt the
perfume of the Stinking Fish still upon his
clot lies.
“Snooks”: I have just been reading
The Lone Hand’s account of the semi-starved
women-workers of Sydney. It grieves me that
such things should be ; but what grieves me most
is the thought of all those women wasting in
Sydney. In Queensland there are hundreds of
good farm-homes just starving for women, and
not lonely Outback homes either. Plenty of
selections and farms would be better cultivated if
there were a wife and kiddies about; but there is
no inducement to a bachelor to beautify or im-
prove the place unless there’s money in it. And
there’s no money in home improvement. In fact,
one gets tempted to lease to a Chow and reside in
a town where women can at least be seen some-
times. The plain, unpleasant truth is that the
starved white-worker prefers to stay in the town
where she can see the gorgeous window-displays
of unattainable frills and fashions.
The Oldest Inhabitant has a good half-
hour :
Apropos Melbourne’s ancient pubs (B. 11/5/’ll), In
1854 the only beer-pump on the west side of Swanstou-
street, from Flinders-street to Collins street, was in the
Queen’s Arms Inn, on the nor’-west corner of Flinders-
lane ; it was kept by Tom Monahan. On November 7,
1837, John Batman gave £59 for the corner half-acre, and
£6O for the half acre adjoining, which constitutes the
corner of Collins-street. The next pub on that side, and
in that year, ’54, was the Royal Oak, kept by W. Finlay.
It stood three doors from Little Collins-street.
There was none other until you reached the Rail-
way Hotel, three doors north of Bourke-street,
and kept by James Neales, a member of the Garrick,
and, I think, an old pro. Three doors north of Little
Bourke-street was the Turf Hotel, kept by Billy Lang,
afterwards the racing man. Further up, at the corner of
Lonsdale-street, was the Britannia, kept by J. Farmer.
On the south-west corner of Latrobe-street was the
Travellers’ Rest, kept by Michael D’Arcy. This
D’Arcy proposed Graham Berry on the old hustings in
Swanston-street, where the new portion of the Town Hall
now stands. The City Police Court stood there then ;
the hustings were on the space between the court and
the old Town Hall. There was a vacancy for East Mel-
bourne, and Edward Cohen and Pat O’Brien were candi-
dates. Governor Barkly meanwhile had given Richard
Heales a dissolution, arid Cohen and O’Brien, the House
being on its deathbed, agreed to propose absentee C. H.
Ebden for the seat. D’Arcy, however, spoiled the
scheme and proposed Berry, who was in the crowd. He
got the show of hands, too, and as Ebden’s supporters
did not demand a poll, Berry was declared duly elected,
I saw him take his seat that night. In a couple of days the
House was dissolved. Berry got in for Collingwood at the
general election, and Cohen for East Melbourne (with
Ambrose Kyte for colleague). O’Brien, of Kincora, was out
of it. Away up towards a’Beckett-street was the Farm-
ers’ Home, by J. Stone. On the opposite side, where the
Cathedral Hotel now is, were Walker and Wright, grocers.
There was no pub nearer than John Jordan’s Rainbow,
on the north corner of Little Collins-street (Jordan was a
big M.U.0.0.F. man). On the south-east corner of Bourke-
street was the Royal Mail, by H. Callow, afterwards kept by
Charles C. Skarratt, who became a Mount Morganaire.
The opposite corner was then William Hickinbotham’s
carpet warehouse, afterwards converted into the Royal
Admiral Hotel, and kept by a City Councillor, John
Walker. Next Hickinbotham was the grocery shop of
Michael Dawson, who became Town Clerk Fitzgibbon’s
father-in-law, and died a very wealthy man. Young and
Jackson’s public house was originally The Princes Bridge
Hotel ; that half-acre was also purchased by John Batman
for £lOO.
“Gwy”: Doubtless the chairman of the
Bank of N. S. Wales would have been surprised
and pained had one of the shareholders arisen at
the meeting the other day and told him that he
was interfering in other people’s business. Dr.
Mackellar was replying to a question, and, from
the nature of his answer, some notice had evi-
dently been given of it. Probably the answer was
directed against criticisms which have from time
to time been passed on the bank’s treatment of its
officers, considering what a great and prosperous
institution it is. He referred to the addi-
tions that had been made to the pen-
sion fund, and remarked that the directors
considered these contributions were better
than “ ephemeral benefits.” Thus he admitted
in effect that the bank could afford to do more for
its officers ; but it would be a bad thing to put it
on their screws. The clerk might be tempted to
spend it—in fact, there is no saying to what
limits he might go in the excess of his joy.
With all deference to Dr. Mackellar, this grand-
motherliness is all rot, and it only dodges the
real question. Provision for old age is excellent;
but if one thing is more exasperating than
another to a full-grown man, it is to have an
employer, with this false benevolence and con-
cern, telling the employee of the comfortable old
age be will have if he will trust his future to the
benevolent employer. The average employee
would prefer to get something out of the stock-
ing now, and look after his own future. No one,
for example, stands at the elbow of the directors
of the B.N.S.W. when they are at their clubs
and deprives them of the “ephemeral” joy of a
good dinner, although it might be a lot better for
their digestion.
THE HORNY-HANDED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The hairy palmist gazed into
The hand the youth held out to him:
“The toilers’ curse has smitten you.
You wield a shovel for your bread.”
The wan youth shook his weary head.
“You hold the plough? You use the pick?
You swing a hammer? Pound up paint?
You pile the hay upon the rick?
You are a miner? Here’s the taint
Of graft.” The youth observed, “I ain’t.
“Then why these palms with half-inch hide?
Why do these fingers horny grow?”
“I am an usher,” he replied.
“I get my hands all toughened so
Through clappin’ actors at the show.”
VICTORIA.
BILLY T.
THE SCHOOLROOM OF THE MIME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The great study of the actress is modern life —
the life of this world of men and things which it is
her part to portray. If she is to make her work
vital and broad, her knowledge of the world must be
vital and broad. She must keep in touch with every
part of it. —Ethel Barrymore.
Brains,' beauty, study, diction, dress
These days cut little ice
As factors in a stage success ;
The mummer pays Fame’s price
By methods which are more or less
Abhorrent to The Nice.
See where, in yonder foetid slum,
Fair Ermyntrude de Vere
Foregathers with an ancient “hum” —
Nay, do not rail or sneer,
Or turn oh her, with .visage glum;
She learns her acting here 1
No modern hero is equipped
To play a sailor’s part,
Who has not personally shipped
Before the mast. The heart
Of ev’ry audience is gripped
By his resultant Art.
No dock or penitentiary,
Or haunt of persons bent
On deeds of criminality,
But holds its complement
Of pros, acquiring painfully
Their craft’s embodiment.
You’ve noticed how each city bar,
From morn to even-fall,
Contains its pet dramatic “star,’’
Now bright, now faint and small: —
The mimes crowd in from near and far
For Art’s sake —that is all.
N.S.W.
10-2-4.


3111 DOZEN
Pure Linen
Handkerchiefs.
1
A Special Purchase from a Manufacturer.
OUR Buyer when in Belfast effected a purchase of 5000
dozen Pure Linen Handkerchiefs at a special price
from a Manufacturer. The quality of these goods is
absolutely the finest we have ever offered at such a price.
The Handkerchiefs are a useful size, not too large, with
narrow hemstiched hems.
Well worth 4/11, for
dozen.
this price no matter where you live. Mail us your order if you cannot call, even
if you only ask for half a dozen —it will pay you. And WE PAY CARRIAGE on all Goods except
Furniture, Floor Covering, Kitchen and Hardware to any part of the Commonwealth. Only on Toys
when ordered with other «oods.
DAVID JONES LTD.
Opp. G.P.O
SYDNEY.
\
Did It Ever Strike You
WHY
HARRINGTONS’
CAMERAS
are used by all the Leading Photographers,
Amateur or Professional?
It is because of their reliability and efficiency
in the production of striking pictures, while
the prices make competition impossible.
Send for Illustrated Catalogue to
HARRINGTONS LTD.,
AUSTRALASIA’S LEADING
PHOTOGRAPHIC MERCHANTS,
SYDNEY : 386 George Street.
MELBOURNE : 266 Collins Street.
BRISBANE: 93-95 Queen Street.
ADELAIDE: Gawler Place.
SOCIETY
PENFOLD'S
WINES
SWELLED HEAD.
NEVERSWEAT NED : “ Clarence is puttin’ on a
lot er dog this mo ruin'. ”
HIS FRIEND : “ Well, yr see, 'e earnt th' price
of a counter-lunch yesterdy . ”
“ Button-stick ” waves his sporran :
The man who dropped into the “ Melbourne Chatter ”
(B. 25/5/T1) with a millinery item had better drop out
again and dig up his facts. He prophesies the abolition
of the kiltie for several reasons. He says it’s a.fool of a
dress for military purposes “in a climate like ours.” Is
our climate wor.-e than the Egyptian deserts? Or India
in the hot weather? Yet the kilties managed to flap
along there. The Mutiny was about as tough a testing
as men or uniforms were ever put to, and the cake-and-
kiltie regiments showed amongst the lowest averages of
sick (apart from wounded, of course). Again, the man-
that a Highland Brigade at Magersfontein
had to lie on its tummy in the sun, and that the sun,
“ beating down on the unprotected calves,” tied such
knots in the muscles that the whole brigade “was ren-
dered unserviceable for months.” Now, the Highland
Brigade wore stockings which cover the calves. That’s
a minor point, I admit, and the men did get sun-burned
in the back portions of the knees. But they had lain in
the same position and had a similar roasting at Modder
Rivera few days before, without being “ rendered unser-
viceable for months.” And, again, Magersfontein was
fought Dec. 10, and on Feb. 3 four of the same kiltie
regiments were scrapping at Koodoosberg—the first in-
fantry to be used by Roberts in his big move, too. And
a few days after they marched 30 miles and waded into
the Paardeberg shindy without a break. Nothing very
unserviceable about that, eh ?
The Gov.-General is to pack up his luggage
when the present lease runs out, and move on
from the mock-castle which was built for the use
of N.S. VV. State Governors, unless Holman
and his colleagues can be turned from their
present purpose. The fine grounds bite a
large slice out of the Botanic Gardens, and
the Labor Government comes to the sensible con-
clusion that it is time the public had the use of
them, since they are put to practically no use at
all now. The building will come in handy for
public-library purposes. The official rubber-
stamp might probably have still reposed undis-
turbed, and a horse or two might have grazed
unmolested on these matchless slopes of the har-
bor, if it hadn't been certain that other bites will
presently have to be taken out of the Domain.
The Sydney Hospital must be extended, and
there is only one way to extend it: so things
will be evened up by throwing down the fences
that now warn the public off one of the most pic-
turesque parts of the harbor foreshores, and the
G.-G. will have to be housed in some place where
keep-off-the-grass notices won’t matter so much
* * * *
“ Brass Button ” : There are very few of
the first-class deep-sea boats now which are not
fitted with wireless, except some of the Maori-
landers. The recent feverish haste in the matter
was mainly the result of a whisper that voluntary
action would show great wisdom. Somebody got
the alarming tip that a little Act was being
framed,' something to the effect that evert/ steamer
carrying passengers—the Sydney Ferries ex-
cepted, T suppose —would have to rig up the
spark. This is a good deal more than the inter-
state cos. had been plotting out; so the word was
passed for all hands to get at it, that the
Government might be induced to sit back. What-
ever the cause, there was a stampede for sparks,
and the first time my marine residence is assaulted
by Providence, I’m now in the happy position of
being able to call up a cab.
* * * *
Neptune has been good to Sydney dock-
yards this last year. First, the French mailboat
Salazie came in with its engine-room mashed up
after a breakdown ; then the Eastern argued with
the Salamander Bank, near Brisbane, and the
hospital expenses came to £30,000; now the
Prinz Waldemar is getting its broken nose
straightened for four figures after a coral reef ex-
perience in the Caroline Group. These big
smashes are thinly-disguised blessings to the ship-
wrights of a country which, for want of a duty,
imports its vessels from a land of low wages and
older and therefore sometimes better-organised
industry. Every crippled ship that thus struggles
into an Australian harbor for repairs helps to stun
the Stinking Fish, and gives the shipwright a
chance to drop a steel-plate of proof on the
ignorant, abject being who habitually decries the
Australian artisan and trie-; to drive him to
become some other country’s artisan.
“The Shark”: So the Sydney Clerks’
Union and the Sydney Trades Hall are ponder-
ing whether the article or apprentice system
should be approved in connection with clerical
labor, and niade a subject for the Wages
Board. I shall feel sorry for the future
generation of clerks if it is. I have just
finished five years under articles to a
man I detested from the first week ;
but there was no escape for me.
He never had the spirit to kick
me out, although he received
enough provocation. No doubt
he recognised that my services
were cheap, unwilling though
they were. And that is the
reason the apprenticeship system
has continued so long. Free ser-
vice, generally with a substantial
premium, just suits most employers.
The Clerks’ Union will find that
employers will consider the indenture
proposal only too readily. It will also find that, on
account of the “experience” the lad will acquire,
the remuneration will be less. But do you think
that employers will go out of their way to inst ruct
the lad ? Not much ! Take solicitors’ clerks :
you will find plenty of them with a better general
knowledge than the articled specimen, notwith-
standing the opinion the latter commonly has of
himself. And that's another objection. It breeds
snobbery.
* * . * *
Through his superabundant sympathy for
the deserted wife and his desire to mulct the
defaulting husband in damages, costs, alimony, or
whatever else he can throw at him, Victoria’s
Chief Justice MLadden lately made an order that
is liable to have consequences. It occurred in the
case of Beer v. Beer, in which the female Beer
asked for a decree because the male Beer had gone
to “ the West” permanently and finally. Knowing
the malty-named gentleman, she didn’t bother
about alimony; she was able to look after herself,
and merely wanted to get rid of the bad liquor.
In his wisdom Madden, however, declined to give
her a decree till he learned more about Tangle-
foot; then, finding he was in a billet worth £4 ss.
a week in Perth, his Honor directed the iady to
amend her petition by claiming alimony, and pre-
sent it to him that day four weeks. It doesn’t
seem to have struck Madden that most women
divorce deserting husbands because they want to
marry someone else—the mere getting of a decree
doesn’t make them any less or any more deserted
—so by thus postponing this lady’s matrimonial
freedom for a month he is probably running a
risk of fracturing two loving hearts, bursting up a
proposed happy home, and kicking a prospective
marriage tie into oblivion. All of which feats are
understood to be the peculiar prerogative of Sosh.
GETTING HIS MONEYS WORTH.
MRS. IZITT : "Isaac! Isaac! Vy don'd you Lome in and o' der rain?
MR. IZITT : “ Not for twelf and a half minutes yet, Repecca. I hired der umbrella for
two hours.”
The impressions of James Edmond :
We struck Marseilles on a dav that looked like a page
torn out of Paradise. And Marseilles is worth striking.
The Cold arrived near Paris, a gale of it. In London the
. com ariiveu ueai ran®,
ram rained, and it was very wet rain indeed. Also the
snow snowed, and it was cold white snow. The wind
blew, and the hail hailed, and the blizzard blizzed, and
great was the bliz thereof.
Much of the West End of London has been recon-
structed since I was a boy, and it is magnificent. As for
the places where the great, mass of people live—Wap-
ping, Rotherhithe, Whitechapel, Hoxton, Limestone,
Bermondsey, Barking, Blackwall, etc., and the by-ways
of Westminster, Islington and Battersea—l fancy perdi-
tion must be better. I spent two days exploring them
and didn't see a cheerful face except when the owner was
coming out of a public-house. Liquor is cheap, and men
and women drink in the pubs promiscuously.
I hunted up Louis Brennan’s place, but didn’t find
Brennan. He is no longer with the War Office. His tor-
pedo was a thing which could be fired wnh absolute
accuracy for two or three miles ; dug modern guns cat ry
so far that vessels no longer come within that range of
one another. So the old Whitehead torpedo, though it
is much more of a gamble, but has a very long range, is
on top again. In all Brennan’s stupendous factory I
found one confidential clerk and a boy. His experimental
mono-rail line isn t working just now, yet mee
engineers who swear bv it, and all the printed reports
about it seem favorable. In the old countries, where
most of the railways are built, railway people view it
with horror as a device which may one day drive them
to the cost of general reconstruction, and new countries
look on it with suspicion because the old ones don’t take
it up.
I looked in at Kidderminster to see the place where I
spent some early years. It isi a bleak,. black, muddy
little town of allevs and crooked by-ways. And Liver-
pool, which is bigger than Sydney, hasn’t a wide street
or a straight street in it. The five buildings opposite
my very comfortable hotel were (l)a factory with two huge
chimneys,(2)apublichouse,(3)apublichouse,(4:)an eating
house with a beer license, (5) a public house. It was the
day after Good Fnday and the number o hatless u.i-
tidy, diner v women with bruised faces and blackened c\ es
was amazing. In Liverpool a public holiday is a day
when you spank your missus. Here the old buildings
are black, the middle-aged ones are getting black, and
the new ones are smudged.
Manchester is the same, only more so. Glasgow is
much the same, only it has the lower Clyde at hand, and
the lower Clyde is a paradise in fine weather. I struck it
in a roaring 'gale with blasphemy on its wings-did 22
miles by tram car to see the beauties of Loch Lomond,
but, owing to mist and driving rain, I saw nothing. It
was on such a day the Devil got drowned and Hell became
full of water. . .......
In Edinburgh the New Town is beautiful and the Old
Town hasn’t been cleaned or repaired since the days of
Queen Mary. And many of the inhabitants haven’t been
cleaned or repaired since then either.
‘‘Bos : Hooray for the Hempire the
Chinese Empire ! Certain persons, allegedly
Britishers, subscribed funds at the North Coas
sugar-growing village of Condone (N.S.W
towards a bun-worry and “ Hirnperial sentiment
()Utbreak (m May 24 , when the Union Jack was
unfurle d and told what a glorious flag it wa-. The
refreshments provided consisted largely of fruit,
There are numerous British fruit suppliers in
those parts, but they were all passed over, and
one solitary Ah Chow in Murwillumbah was
given the order. Again, three times three for the
Hempire—and be hanged to the white race !
* * * *
Local—or should ifc be yokel ?—Society has
~ _ ,
reached the dog-christemng stage, issuing formal
invitations to the functions and conducting tl e
ceremonies with all the. imitation that makes f< r
the sincerest sacrilege. At one of these exhibitions
j n Sydney the other day, the mongrel was dressed
j baby > B christening robes, w carried in the
. J
arms of a stalwart Austrahan man, was sprinkled
from a mock-gold yessel and presided over the
company at the carving of its own ceremonial cak<.
Numbers of other tripe-harriers, that had aceom-
nanied their languid mistresses, alternately fought,
j ove( j anc j were f e d ou swe ets on the lawn,
~ V iri t , £ i • i
amidst rounds of dog applause, most qf which was
very loud. What is urgently required for the
good of this young nation is an Act of Parliament
nlako Society get work—or children,
# *
“Vic”: Acting Premier and Treasurer
is giving way to a lot of nonsense about
” ”, . J , ■ , , r
Stonington not being big enough for Governor (in
reality only Lieutenant-Governor) B uller. I have
just made a visit to Stonington and will declare on
my oath that Denman, Governor-General, would
SO oner live there than at his Melbourne Govern-
ment House. The fact is Fuller has brought an
~,,,, - , , 0 •
absurdly redundant gang of understrappers, just
as if he was going to be a Viceroy. So Watt is
talking about spending thousands of poundson the
enlargement of Stonington. Arc hitect D’Ebro
built it, with every luxury, for Wagner, a million-
. ’ , TTnoiiesHonablv it is the nicest
alre tney go. U nquestiouaDiy it is tne nicest
house in Melbourne, and far more truly com modi-
ous than the Governor Generals. That oi.e is a
waste of too-big apartments. Architect Warded
( a ] so of St, Mary’s, Sydney, and St. Pat s, Melb.)
asked Governor Canterbury : “Is there anythin
, f » n anterburv • “Yes I
. uggest . OanterOury. e. J
would like a quiet little place to eat a chop in.
That about sums it up.
THE “LOVE” CHILD
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Wanted kind person to adopt healthy baby boy, one
week old, of refined parentage. —Melbourne paper.
Ma is refined.
Ma had the fun without the fee
And but a half maternity—
Ma is refined.
Pa is resigned—
To be a father for a week.
Then the “ kind person ” he must seek.
Pa is refined.
Ma is resigned.
She takes the creature of her womb,
And sends it slowly to the tomb—
And so refined !
Oh ! for the coarse
And handy p irent who protects
The little ehi.d his love selects !
Or for the horse !
Or for the bear,
Jealous of anyone that helps
Or hurts her clumsy lumbering whelps,
Or finds her lair !
Eagles that bind
The thorny twigs to make the nest—
That fly home with a bloody breast —
Are not refined.
The winter wind
Assaulting earth with icy shock,
The clumsy python on the rock,
Are not refined.
But, bear in mind,
The slayers of the sacred lust
Who give their nursling to the dust —
They are refined.
VICTORIA.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.


/10,000,000
'tabletsof Sun*]
light Soap are
sold every week
this is the high-
est possible proof l
that Sunlight
Soap comes up
to expecta-
tions.
/
}
No. BT. GUARANTEED UNDER THE
"PURE FOOD ACT. 1903,"
BY LEVER BROTHERS LIMITED.
SYDNEY, N.S.W. No. ST.
Hunyadf
Janos j
Is the Best
Natural Aperient Water
Bottled at the Springs
Used the World overi
Drink on arising a wineglassful for M
INDIGESTION and 1
BILIOUSNESS
Wild s Hairdressing Rooms, 30 Upstairs,
Sydney Arcade, George and King- Streets, Sydney, is the
proper place to go if you want the best of attention.
Electric head and face massage done in the latest
American style. Hours of business : 8.30 to 6.30 : Satur-
day close at 1 o’clock.*
N
Good Winter
Flannelette Pyjamas
8/6
AT this price, 8/6, we are now making a special offer of
Flannelette Pyjamas in warm winter weights and a bright
array of attractive designs.
The color blends are cheerful and very happily harmonized
being Blue, Green and Helio Grounds, overrun with stripe effects’.
The Pyjamas are all made in our own establishment from
patterned flannelettes specially reserved for us by the manu-
facturer—hence in cut and fabric they express that “Peapes”
exclusiveness that particular dressers look to us to supply. The
quality is much above the average.
Price
Postage 9d. extra.
fn ordering by post please state what color you desire—and tell
us your waist and chest measurements.
PEAPES & CO. LTD.,
“ Men’s
Outfitters,”
309-311 George Street, SYDNEY.
When the mostly-Labor Broken Hill
council made a muddle of things, a few months
ago, the Fat press held up the tangle as a shock-
ing result of “ Labor domination.’’ Now there is
considerable trouble brewing in some of the
toniest councils in the Ma State, and the Blue
Mountains Shire Council, which is anti-Labor
beyond the average, seems to be in for special
trouble. The auditor recently gave it a mild
slating for a number of shortcomings, whereupon
the snail-like body retired to its shell, and has
been sitting in it ever since. But, as it was so
fervently anti-Labor, the “great” dailies have
of coarse carefully abstained from noticing any
bad smell. It begins to be suspected that more
than half the representatives of the Backbone of
the Country are doing things which the Act never
contemplated, and are not doing things that the
Act (nominally) insists should be done ; so the
Works Department is likely to soon have a merry
time trying to comb out the burrs.
Acting-Chief Sec. Flowers’s decision that
N.S.W. picture shows may deal only with sacred
subjects, and may take up a collection only after
the service, is all very well as far as it goes ; but it
doesn’t go far enough. To guarantee respecta-
bility, Mr. Flowers should insist that any
announcements or explanations should be made
only by ordained ministers. This would help a
poorly-paid profession to put a little extra butter
on the bread, and might even enable some of
them to shut up their marriage shops.
NOT MUCH ELEVATION.
SHORT UN: “I hadn't much to start with, but
I was well brought up.”
LONG 'UN: “ Yes, but not far.”
Red Tape, Junr.”: Our department is
hooraying. The staff was working day and
night, and the pressure was such that our new
Minister-in-Charge, Holman, was scandalised.
He decided that something had to be done, and
this is how he did it. With one blow tie re-
solved to turn the chief clerk into Assistant
Under-Secretary, but hastened to inform the
newspaper Johnnies that this involved no addi-
tion to the staff, nor would it increase the depart-
mental vote on the Estimates. It was the
simplest solution ever; arid I now suggest that
Mr. Smith, who comes next, be appointed
Deputy Assistant Under-Sec., and that the man
next to him be gazetted Sub-Assistant Under-
Sec., and so on. Thus the Department will be
able to get through the same work in half the
time, and everything will be “reformed” and
the garden Will be beautiful.
* * * *
Uncle Cohen, who held a bill of sale over
a Sydney burgher’s property, recently realised on
it by forcibly removing the chattels. For this
proceeding he was sued by the owner, who was
awarded £25 damages for trespass, on the ground
that the money-lender was not registered under
the Act. This case has made various opulent
clerks in banks and Government offices do some
hard thinking. They lend their own (or some-
body else’s) money to fellow-employees at high
rates of interest, on personal security, bills of
sale, pro. notes, etc. They dare not register under
the Act, and if they strike an enlightened snag
who declines to pay up, knowing the fatal flaw in
the lender’s position, they must put up with the
loss. Still, their profits are large enough to stand
an occasional bump; and, anyway, bumps are
very few, because 99 per cent, of the customers
are in deadly fear of advertising their hard-
upness.
* * * *
A N.S.W. North Coast medical man’s
warning:—
This year for the first time dengue hns leaped right
down from the Queensland border to the Clarence. The
autumn just closed was by far the worst mosquito year
the coast has experienced ; and the mosquito is blamed
for carrying the dengue germ. Indeed, there were cases
of so-called influenza in Sydney this year which were
desperately like mild dengue. The mosquito also carries
the disease which a Brisbane medico first diagnosed a
few years ago as filaria ; it was then ascertained that
most of the inmates of the Brisbane Hospital were vic-
tims to it. So far, there has not been a great deal of
research work carried out in the North in any of these
diseases, partly because, when dengue strikes a place
there are not many who can spare time to investigate!
As it has got well into the Ma State now, there may he
some attempt to treat it as a Federal matter, as should
done; with the cattle tick also. It is said, by the way,
that a liberated cattle tick will never crawl in any other
direction than south or west.
* * * *
All the honors paid to coming and depart-
ing Governors these times fade into insignificance
in comparison with early Australian tributes to
viee-regality. Think of what happened when the
foundations of the Commonwealth were being laid
at Botany Bay ! Australia’s first two stone churches
oTthe Anglican persuasion were at Sydney and
P&tTamatta respectivelv. and were named by
an order of Governor King in 1802. The one
was dedicated to St. Phillip, as a delicate compli-
ment to Governor Phillip, the original Excellency;
whilst the other was named St. John’s, in memory
of Sir John Hunter, the successor to Phillip. The
Parramatta church, completed in 1803, was a
quire-tony edifice, with two towers to it. The
earlier religious services in the ancient village
were held by the Rev. Johnson in a carpenter’s
shop-an appropriate place of Christian worship,
anyhow. But the church that came 12 years later
was felt to be a place where even the Naic \st might
get spiritual improvement. The Sydney Gazette
of April, 1803 stated that “many ladies of the
first respectability were present” at the inaugural
service, and probablv, had the tabernacle been
christened St. John Hunter’s, the attendance of
“ ladies of the first respectability ” would have
been even larger.
It has been left to Malvern “City," a
newly-glorified suburb of the overblown city of
Melbourne, to invent the foolishest stunt for the
entertainment of a Governor. His Ex. Fuller
(the volunteer captain who is going to teach Aus-
tralia how to soldier) was last week “presented
with the freedom of the city,” which aping of a
British custom, with little modern meaning in the
Cold Country, is absolutely meaningless in Aus-
tralia. Ihe dog-tax man is just as free of the
city of Malvern as the imported Governor tfho
lives at Stonington. But the inane thing was
done; and the Mayor of Malvern, to make rhe
ridiculous show still more ridiculous, eked it out
with feeble jokes about married men and latch-
keys.
* * * *
The imaginative female has a brother—a
fairly-numerous brother. He usually is a young
man who, on a screw of 18s. 6d., or thereabouts!
cuts a dash as a wealthy young man, and becomes
“engaged.” On the eve of the wedding, lie real-
lses his position, and announces that
a masked highwayman has robbed
him of £127 13s. 7Ad. (which, in view
of his approach mg
marriage, lie had with-
drawn from the
bank), a gold watch
and the wedding
ring. Usually ho
has a slight—very
slight— cut on his
forehead as evidence
of the heroic fight he
had with the highway-
man. When the police
investigate, they can't
discover the bank from
which he withdrew
£127, and they miss the
jeweller who sold the
wedding ring. But
they do unearth os. 4d.
and an old nickel watch
secreted in the young
man’s room ; and then
lie confesses. In Vic-
toria lately a young
man was discovered
tied to a gatepost with
his own handkerchief. He
had the usual tale of loss ;
but when an inquisitive
policeman with a faculty for
observation asked him to take off his boots he
confessed that the tale was a fiction invented to
give a reason for his inability to find housekeep-
ing funds. The funds were in the boots and
panned out about £3; but the bride-to-be’s
parents reckoned that £3 and a job worth 255. per
week weren’t enough. ’ *
Even his former colleagues now pour notes
of interrogation over Victoria’s railway expert
Tait. Thus, Chief Commissioner Fitzpatrick
recently told the Railways Standing Committee
that the alleged deficit of .£50,000 a year which
Tait asserted the suburban lines produced had
almost disappeared, and would most likely disap-
pear- altogecher by the end of the financial year.
Doubtless the overcrowded suburban lines are
paying now—if they aren’t they never will—but
to recover wholly from an annual loss of £50,000
in less than 10 months was too much, and’the
Committee smiled thoughtfully.
j Sardonyx : Why are the parsons mak-
I i n £ such a hullabaloo about this JVe tcmere
decree ? If a man and woman are duly married
according to 13ritish law, their children are ipso
facto legitimate, and no foreign promulgation can
affect that status. What the members of any
particular church may think about the matter is
.of no consequence so long as they only think.
But if they proceed to say that, for instance, So-
and-so’s children are illegitimate, ,by reason of a
certain Papal deliverance, they can be dealt with
in the ordinary way for slander. Also, there’s
nothing but bosh in the assertion that if a
Catholic husband should weary of his Protestant
spouse, he could plead an awakened conscience as
an excuse for deserting her. No authority exter-
nal to a nation; can relieve any member of that
nation from his civil obligations, and the Law
would get up and hit the gentleman with the
conscience just as hard as if he hadn’t a scrap of
such a thing about him.
N.S.W. Education Minister Beeby’s deci-
sion that all State waifs are to be sent to farm
homes has impressed the Victorian Government.
Notwithstanding that only lately Victoria
adopted the now-discarded Sydney idea of a
training ship, and put the John Murray, formerly
of the Loch line, in commission, Attorney-
General Brown is in favor of following N.S.W.
right out, and it is likely the Cabinet will come
round to the same view. Already Ballarat has an
orphanage farm home of 50 acres. Formerly old
mining ground, and regarded as useless, the patch
supplies the orphanage with all the vegetables,
milk, butter and eggs it needs, and showed a sur-
plus profit last year of £577. This experiment is
such a success that it thunders to Beeby to go on,
and to the Victorians to follow as fast as they are
able.
* * * *
There are not many Chinese fruit-sellers
in Adelaide, but there are some, and one of them
was astonishingly candid in court last week. He
had beaten a price-cutting rival about the legs
with a pole, and when accused of murderous in-
tent replied: “I no want to kill him; want to
break his legs.” The court enjoyed the case so
immensely, even to the extent of making puns on
defendant’s name, Ah Chee, that that sneeze
seemed quite surprised when the case suddenly
took the serious form of a fine of £lO and costs.
Ihe heathen’s cheerful admission concerning
his neighbor’s legs recalls an interview the writer
once “did ” with Way Lee, a big Adelaide mer-
chant, who had just returned from China. Thp
Australian atmosphere was full of strikes at the
time, and the interviewer asked if there were any
labor unions in China. Plenty. Any strikes?
Plenty. And what did China do? Oh, it sent
around a magistrate, who inquired, and said so-
and-so. Yes, but supposing the parties wouldn’t
accept the award ? The largest guffaw in the
continent burst from about the .middle of Way
Lee’s face. Then he drew his forefinger across
his throat, said “Cluck,” guffawed again at the
absurdity of the last question, and remarked
laconically, “Plenty men China.”
THE URGENCY OF CITY
RECONSTRUCTION.
The widening of the streets is becoming daily more
necessary. —Sydney paper.
Following upon the resignation of the
N. S. Wales hangman, The Bulletin has re-
ceived this advertisement:—
a respectable, able-bodied HANGMAN
at once ; must be experienced ; no night work;
Sundays off; rope provided; good opportunity to
start a business career in a thriving centre with a
large gaol delivery ; salary, £lOO and bonuses. Apply,
with copies of testimonials, at Darlinghurst Gaol.
Child not objected to.
MORE MEMORIALS!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The soldiers whom Napoleon worked,
We’re told, were very well content
If batons in their knapsaclc3 lurked ;
But here the swaddy is intent ,
On finding: there a monument,
And in the field will take no risk
Unless assured an obelisk.
Each town and hamlet has its stone
To glorify heroic Brown,
Or gallant Tompkins, overthrown
By brutal Boer, who must bow down
To Britons’ might and England’s crown,
And learn by force (the blinded fool !)
The biessedness of British rule.
In Melbourne fully half a score
Of grim war monuments are seen ;
But more are wanted, more and more,
Big piles with little ones between,
And needles tall on every green.
Let stones the high and by-ways choke,
Till all the land is stony broke !
Brave M’lnerney will desist,
And martial Madden cease his pleas
When pyramids to pierce the mist
And columns tall as Pyrenees
Restrict pedestrian liberties,
And for each thousand warrior gents.
We have two thousand monuments !
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.
A BRAVE GIRL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ ' ! ''HE man I love," the
dancer said,
‘ ‘ Need not be tall andfine.
I ao not ash a splendid
head,
Nor an ancestral tine.
“ I won t insist that
he must do
Heroic deeds and
rash.
1 only take a modest
view —
He must have heaps
op cash!"
The harlequin was
very sad,
And softly made
reply:
“ There's many a good
thing to be had
"That money will not buy."
“ ’ Tis true," she said, “the
poet sings
Of such, but when all’s done
Good nioney buys a lot of
things,
And poverty buys none.
“Still not a greedy girl am I;
My little heart is stout,
And what the money will not buy
I’ll bravely do without."
VICTORIA.
SILAS SNELL.


THE LAST USE OF THE GALLOWS.
The N.S.'Y. hangman has resigned.
He was paid by piecework, and threw
up the job in despair when he found
that he had been robbed of his last 11
customers by reprieves.
The Acting Premier of N. S. Wales
constructs a Cabinet after his own
heart.
The Minister for Internal Affairs has'
existed for 10 days on three quarts of
water a Hay -Cable from Ihe Common-
wealth to London
Ine High Commissioner: “A Disgrace
to Australia ! ”
ir WON’T KEEP our TUfe WET.
In the case of Osborne v. the Com-
Wealth the High Court held last week
that me Federal land-tax was valid.
BAILING UP THE SOCIALISTIC
" TIUER."
Deputations of Fat Cltliens are pour-
ln on the Labor Government pointing
out the great advantages of free ferries,
punts, and other State services, and
clamoring for State railways, tram-
ways, etc.
An edict in China prohibits public
officials working on Sundiys unless
there are special reasons for urgency.
—Cable.
Pooh Bah: “It hurts me ; but l will
do it! ”
Prime Minister Fisher is being lion-
, ised in London.— Cable.
Allred: ••Ah, it I only had his chanct
to spread myself!”
MOSTLY ABOUT DISAPPOINTMENTS.


GOLDEN YELLOW AXLE GREASE.
A Pure Oil Lubricant for
all Axles and Bearing's.
Manufactured by LEWIS & WHITTY, Melbourne and Sydney.
McKenzie’s excelsior baking powder.
Gent s Fx«R Watch
IS a f-plate Lever —has 15 Jewels.
HAS a Ruby Roller Jewel.
HAS a Brequet Hairspring.
HAS a Compensated and Adjusted Balance.
IS guaranteed for 15 years, and kept in order for
two (2) years (breakages excepted) without
charge.
WILL stand hard riding and knocking about.
IS made in every style of case.
IT goes with profound accuracy.
EXTRACT of a letter from a constituent at
Bundarra:—“l might here mention for your
pleasure that I have worn one of your watches
for nearly nine years, and during that time it
has given every satisfaction. It has had very
hard usage, having had several falls—one
from a building about 80ft.”
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
Plain Figurbs Gash.] 23 Hunter Street.
Gent.’s J-plate Lever Movement, Oxidised Steel
Movement, Open-face Case, 15 Jewels, 33/-;
7 Jewels, 28/- Also in Silver and Gold.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“Quidam”: Anyone who wants to create a
commotion among white cockatoos (and pretty
well everyone who has a maize crop wants to do
something dreadful to the white invaders) should
try the dodge of first capturing one in a trap, a
difficult but not impossible task, and then darken-
ing i the captive’s complexion with black lead or
something similar. The awful horror of the mar-
auders when the liberated black brother arrives on
the scene is manifested by their hurried scorch for
the horizon, over which, accompanied by a fearsome
and unanimous screech, the whole brigade will dis-
appear about 1J seconds later ; and for some material
period even the prospects of an eternity of corn-
fields will not tempt them back. For the purpose
of promoting rapid emigration the method can only
be compared to that of painting the figure of a man
in phosphorus paint on a gum tree by a nigger’s
camp. This scientific expedient, applied by a
jackeroo per medium of a tin of cockroach-exter-
minating paste, has been known to deprive an Out-
back Queensland station of its colored supernumer-
aries for upwards of 12 months. What the jackeroo
would have got had the boss sheeted home the crime
was a question that caused the successful scientist
many misgivings.
CUT OUT FOR THE JOB.
THE LAW : “Move on out iv this—yer alwiz lyin' round."
RECUMBENT RALPH : “ Well, ain't I admirably adapted for it?"
“Condamine”: “Austra” (B. 4/5/T1)
quotes the Queensland Agricultural Journal as
saying that in some cases of snakebite a ligature is
useless. What the article did say was that a bite
on the wrist or lower leg should be ligatured above
the elbow or knee respectively, as .the presence of
two bones in the lower portions of the limbs renders
a ligature there useless. As to the danger of
strychnine, the warning applies only in ease the
snake which tastes you is non-venomous. 1 have
never known permanganate (effective also in cases
of adder-bite) to be dangerous under any condi-
tions. ’
“Eddyson”: An accident at the Rival
Miners had disabled our braceman, and so scared
the -whim-boy that he threw in his resignation. In
this extremity Crowther, the boss, was constrained
to employ Ragan on the brace, and his son “Jawn”
to pilot the old roan round the whim ring. The
Ragan was from a distant spud “farum,” and
wholly unskilled, but his confidence was enormous.
He went on the night-shift, and at about three in
the morning came rattling at Crowther’s hut. “Are
ye awake, sor?” said the new braceman. “Have ye
the bit av a ball iv sthring beside ye?” “What the
devil do you want with a ball of string?” growled
the manager. Ragan put up a pathetic cry. “Thim
fellies down the hole,” said he, “have been yellin’
be the hour fer a packet iv candles, ’n’ how I’m
t’ reach ut down to them widout the sthring, .1
don’t know.” “Why, you blighted ass, put them in
the bucket!” roared Crowther. Ragan went away;
but he was back in an hour, knocking diffidently.
“Av ye plaze, sor,” he whined, “here’s King cursin’
all the saints in glory t’ come up frim the well be-
yant. Where d’ ye be lcapin’ the ladder at all?”
“Ladder !” cried Crowther. “Haven’t you got goat-
sense? Pull him up with the rope.” Ragan re-
peated his wail. “’Tis no use,” he whimpered.
“I’ve been thryin’ t’ do ut this ha’f hour, ’n’ there
ain’t an inch iv shkin lift on ayther hand iv me.”
* * * *
“H. J.E.”: I can add a piece to this
argument concerning mind-over-matter cure for snake-
bite ; the incident came under my own notice in
India. Chunder was repairing the thatched roof of
his dilapidated residence one evening, when he sud-
denly dropped to the ground, howling that he had
been bitten by a snake. His sahib, a retired civil
officer, knowing the yellow streak in the Indian, de-
clared the undoubted snake punctures to be a rat bite,
and told Chunder to get out. Chunder begged and
implored to be treated for snake, while the boss
cursed him for a fool. The bluff came off, and when
Chunder was leaving the room, satisfied that he had
nothing worse than a rat wound, the sahib called
him back and said he would treat him for snake-bite
if he liked. Chunder thought it might be as Well,
but he didn’t want to be a trouble, since there was
nothing the matter with him. “No trouble,” said
the boss, sarcastically, and used the customary anti
dotes. Chunder was quite well in a couple of days,
and started on the thatch again. This time he used a
stick, and as he was poking about he disturbed a
cobra. With one affrighted yell the nigger fell
headlong from the roof, and died with all the
symptoms of cobra-bite.
* * , * *
“Gip”: Will someone please, invent a
rabbit-trap that will do its work without causing
bunny so much needless pain? Those now in use are
altogether too sharp and powerful, and I have known
of one to hold a dingo till it starved to death. Almost
invariably fur and flesh are torn away, and a length
of generally broken bone exposed; and unless the
traps are looked to every few hours, a big percentage
of the rabbits get away, minus half a limb. Some
trappers try filing the jaws of the traps, others pad
them with a rag (mostly with a utilitarian view,
I confess) ; but that shouldn’t be necessary. Couldn’t
some inventive mind think out a trap that will not
cut, but still hold its prey ?
“Jack Jay”: Maoriland’s handsome song-
bird, the tui, which had fled to the heart of the bush
before the gun-hog- and the fear of man generally,
has begun to return to the settled districts in small
numbers. This is partly due to increased confidence
in public protection, and partly because of the plen-
tiful supplies of honey in the flowers of the Aus-
tralian gums planted by many of the settlers. In
these eucalypt clumps the stranger is now frequently
to be seen in his black clothes and white choker
(hence his other name of “parson bird”), and
with his sweet, deep, bell-like note he more than pays
for his board and lodging.
VENUS DE SILO.
“Machete”: Dr. R. P. Jones, medical
officer at Samarai, puts down the prevalence of beri-
beri among Papuans to the rice which is the staple
kai-kai of many of them. Though this is only an
old theory revived, the doctor, who has had plenty
of experience of beri-beri in the Philippines, has a
good deal of evidence on his side. Beri-beri, which
is the peculiar scourge of the rice-eating nations of
the Orient, first appeared in Papua with the institu-
tion of indented native labor. The food of natives
carrying or working for miners, largely consists of
the easily-transported rice; and native vegetables
are hard to come by, especially in the foot-hills.
The native living on the. food to which he has been
accustomed all his life, never contracts beri-beri.
On the Gira River, where many imported rice-fed
boys died of beri-beri, there was no recorded in-
stance of the taro-eating northern natives suffering
from the disease. In the same way, white men,
with their fairly varied diet, very rarely afford a
case. The doctor seems to think that the extra
preparation given to “white rice” cuts out “sub-
stances necessary for normal nutrition of the nerve
tissues, while the defaulting elements are in super-
abundance.” What all that means is not quite
clear, but he seems to have barked his shins against
a lot of hard facts.
* * * *
“O. and E.”: It happened close to
Jacob’s Ladder, round the point from the Blowhole,
at Kiama (N.S.W.). The stadium was a shelving
rock, fronted and fringed with variously-colored
masses of seaweed. The large, brown crab came out
for his afternooon stroll, and I watched him with
interest. So did another. The crab moved along with
a philosophical air, when, like a flash, a couple of
long feelers, colored like the surroundings, shot out
from under the lower rock, and the crab was grabbed
and thrown on his back. Then the octopus appeared
with eyes bulging like door-knobs from his nest of
shells, and lay flabbily over his prey. But the prey
wasn’t taking any, and with a mighty effort righted
himself and laid hold with his nippers. There was
a sudden squeak as from an enraged parrot, and I
wondered where it came from. But the battle, like that
of Burns and Johnson, was too unequal, so I went
to the assistance of the crab. Catching a claw of
Burns, I hauled him and Johnson right up on to the
rock among the winkles, and Burns scored quite a
lot of points. Just as victory seemed assured, how-
ever, my fool fighter shed the limb I was holding,
and I fell into a pothole and broke my best pipe.
Was just up in time to see the bubbles arise from
below, while two tiny baby crabs rushed down to
look after their doomed parent. It must have been
the octopus that squeaked, as crabs don’t. Somehow
1 felt sorry for that crab —it was horrible.
“Petramos”: I am the man with the
musical spiders. Ravages of horrible earthquakes
have left extensive cracks in the ceiling of my
room, in which I play the piano. I play Chopin.
I maintain that if ■he heard me he would design
another Funeral March. Every time I play the
spiders come out. They are black, with furry legs.
1 am convinced that the fur is in imitation of the
manes adopted by famous musicians. I wrote a
composition, which I entitled, “The Plea of the
Orphan Fly.” The spiders were visibly affected.
They did not retire immediately I stopped, but re-
mained and held a mass meeting. It was evident
that a resolution was unanimously carried. That
was a week ago. To-day my room is full of flies.
Just now the corpse of a starved spider fell from the
ceiling with a faint, feathery thud.
•*•***
“The Calathumpian Deacon”: The pas-
sionate plea entered by Sydney D.T. recently for the
keeping open, at endless expense, of the bar-bound
North Coast ' (N.S.W.) rivers, reminds me of the
cheerful cattle-owner I met in Sydney, and his tale
; of how he once got a shipment of horned beasts out
of the salted wet. His little mob were penned on
the forward deck of, a coaster, which struck heavy
weather, and arrived off the bar at a most unprom-
ising time. The captain had a good look at the
entrance and decided it was too dangerous to risk.
At this point, the cattleman, who could see the value
being knocked off his live-stock as they slipped on
the cinder-strewn deck, lurched up to the master-
mariner, and, explaining that he was anxious to get
his beasts ashore, offered to bet him £5 to nothing
that he couldn’t get in. “Right!” said the sporting
sailor, decisively, and with a whirl of the spokes
sent his tub like a fat steeplechaser at the water-
jump. By the grace (or oversight) of Providence,
they cleared the sand safely, and the grateful stock-
owner promptly paid up. The bar harbor is more of
a gamble than a serious commercial proposition.
“Pick”: “Condamine” (B. 27/4/T1) has
been led to doubt his moke’s homing capacity simply
through his own impatience. Like a dog, homing
pigeon, bee or any animal that instinctively finds
its way in strange country, or at night, a horse will
always make a few circuits to get his bearings be-
fore striking for home; but when he once starts off,
it is safe every time to bet drinks that, if left un-
guided, he will get there by the shortest possible
route, whether he has been across that country be-
fore or not. “Condamine,” by-the-bye, found his
own way so very easily after losing faith in his
“turkey ” that I suspect he was bushed in the home
paddock, within coo-ee of the sliprails, and probably
the mistrusted prad was still hunting round for one
of the cows that “Condamine” had missed.
THE HANGMAN’S JOKE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“These are the drops,” the chemist said.
The customer said “Ta!
To-night I’ll early go to bed;
This dashed insomnia
Has made me weak as any cat!
Ah, well! I will not stop.
The dose?” (He hovered on the mat.)
The chemist said, “One drop!”
“’Old on!” broke in the furtive man
Who waited in the chair;
His fingers through his beard he ran
With a reflective air.
“If them there drops don’t send you off,
You come erlong to me.”
He gave a dry judicial cough
And nodded solemnly.
“And who are you ?” the chemist sneered
And o’er the counter leant.
At both the anxious patient peered
To find out what it meant.
The stranger, grinning through his grime,
Said in his whiskers, “Er—
I am —that is t’ say—well, I’m
An ole practitioner!
N.S.W.
KODAK.


Hotel
A ustra/ia
TARIFF:
From 13/- per Day
AND UPWARDS.
The Hotel is finely situated,
with abundance of air and
light. It is the most cen-
tral, largest, most modern,
most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING HALL; Guest Night
ever) - Thursday ; excellent band engaged.
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea, with
Instrumental and Vocal Concert every
Tuesday afternoon, 4 to 5.30.
HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running da)’ and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of guests.
Connected with Wireless.
J. URE SMITH, Manager,
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
A.N.A. Secretary writes:
“ It is astonishing how little
we know of our own in=
dustries. I shall always use
CALDWELL’S INKS in future.”
Don’t Persecute
your Bowels
Why use harsh purgatives ? They are brutal
—harsh—unnecessary. Try
CARTER’S LITTLE
LIVER PILLS.
Purely vegetable. Act
gently on the liver, elim-
inate bile, and soothe A
the delicate membrane
of the bowel.
Cure Constipa-j
tion, Bilious-
ness, Sick
Headache,
Carters
L
'ITTLE
IVER
PILLS.
and Indigestion, as millions know.
Small Pill, Small Dose, Small Price.
GENUINE must bear Signature
PLASMON
THE GREAT NERVE
AND BRAIN FOOD.
PLASMON COCOA, PLASMON CHOCOLATE.
PLASMON BISCUITS, PLASMON OATS.
Send for C. B. Fry’s Book on Training,
Post Free on application to
Australian Depot : 6& 7 Barrack St., Sydney.
The Royal Hotel,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Most centrally situated Hotel in Sydney.
Best place to lunch and dine in town.
J. W. COCKBAINE, Proprietor.
“Condamine” : Gilligan was about full of
the shed, and wanted the sack. He tried all the
usual methods in vain, and when he commenced
hacking the wool the boss merely threatened to
prosecute him for damages. Then a brilliant idea
entered Gilligan’s head. He asked the butcher to
save him the teat-ends of a few ewes, and say no-
thing about it. A couple of days later, while the
pens were being counted out at smoko, Gilligan
pretended to be busy until the last of his sheep
were mixed with the mob. Then he came up and
inquired how many sheep were in his pen. “Four-
teen,” said the boss. “You’re a liar,” yelled Gilli-
gan. “I had a notion that you were rooking me
for a sheep or two, so L Cut a teat off each one as
I shore it, and here TOey are —fifteen of them.”
Gilligan was allowed to go.
“Leo Lear”: J. A. Leach, M.Sc. and
ornithologist, has driven a final 6in. spike into the
“land of songless birds” lie. According- to him —
Australia contains representatives of 28 families
of song-birds. Representatives of but 19 families
have been recorded from Great Britain. The Indian
Empire contains representatives of 22 families, North
America 22, and South America 23. Again, while
89 song-birds have been recorded as permanent resi-
dents of, or regular visitors to, Britain, almost 500
species of song-birds have, so far, been recorded from
Australia and Tasmania.
Considering that Britishers have been the chief
abusers of our birds, it is fitting and proper that the
first should be last and the last should be first, that
the Scriptures may be fulfilled and the Devil con-
founded.
“Billanine”: Has any Aboliar ever sent
in an authentic record of a kangaroo’s pace? If so
I would like to know how it tallies with my timing.
Motoring recently on a road near Manilla (N.S.W.),
we came upon a pair of the now-rare marsupials in a
straight lane. The ’roos set off, and we whizzed
right behind. For quite two miles the beasties
kept their pace and their lead, and when I looked at
the speedometer it registered 35 miles an hour. An-
other turn or two and we passed them after a better
two-mile race than I have ever seen on a racecourse.
ANOTHER HORRIBLE EXAMPLE.
"Sam, wot's become of yer cobber 'Enery? ”
“ Oh, HIM! ’E got shickered last week and
took a job."
A KEEN SEARCH.
DAN THE BEER-EATER : “ HO, ’ere you are at larst! Why, I been lookin' fer you all day."
F RIEND: “ Where yer been lookin’ fer me?”
D AN: “ In 'ere.”
“W. King”: Can’t agree with “Blackboy”
that the W.A. wild brumby is easy to catch, and I
have chased him at all seasons of the year. The best
time to gather him is in the dry season when the
waterholes in the hills are gasping. Track him then
to his few watering places, and securely, fence off
the moisture for, say, a week. At the end of that
period let him at the water, and when he has
filled himself he is as helpless as an aged Wowser
after a blow-out at a free tea and bun scuffle.
* * * *
“10-2-4”: lie this Abo. controversy
as to whether the Australian nigger has a sense of
humor. Some years ago 1 was in a Baclcblocks
courthouse, when a Crown “defender” was repre-
senting a boy of the Binghi
breed on a charge of murder.
As usual in such cases, he
never had the semblance of a
run for his neck. His advo-
cate concluded a lengthy and
earnest, but utterly fatuous
effort, by calling a witness
whose testimony proved fatal
to whatever faint hopes Bing-
hi had of evading the rope.
Exasperated at the onlook for
evidence he was eliciting,
counsel turned, tiger-like, on
his witness, and subjected him
to a searching cross-examina-
tion concerning his past im-
moralities and convictions.
The Judge being almost stone-
deaf, and the Crown Prose-
cutor temporarily stunned by
his learned friend’s unprece-
dented line of action, the
now-maddened witness was
able to voice the views that
his interlocutor was a crim-
son idiot and his client a gory
assassin, before a “Stand
down! ” bumped him once
more into private life. His
sentiments coincided more or
less, seemingly, with those of the jury, who,
without leaving the box, returned a verdict of
“Wilful Murder.” Even as Binghi was being led
away to his doom, he turned, and, waving a sable
paw at his crestfallen defender, shouted cheerily:
“Buck up, boss. Nebber. you mind. You plurry
fool now. Bimeby you grow up and get sense like
plurry old deaf bloke on top. Then you do all
right.” “A callous villain” was the phrase the
local paper used to describe the condemned next
morning. There are some people who cannot recog-
nise a humorist when they meet him.
* * * *
“T.O’C.”: “Petifi” B. 30/3/T1) asks if
any “leaping brother” can beat his pal’s little free
trip from Sydney to Melbourne and back. Yes, cer-
tainly. A few years ago, finding the climate of the
Mallee, Victoria, uncongenial, a mate and I de-
cided to migrate to the sugar fields of Queensland.
We “jumped the rattler,” where we discovered an-
other traveller under a tarpaulin, and reached Ten-
terfield, New England, with very few breaks. There
a limb of the Law introduced itself, but as it couldn’t
run three ways at once, only one of the syndicate
was caught. The remaining two went on to War-
wick (Q.), and waited there for the third partner to
arrive, when a fresh start was made. At Gympie, we
were all hauled out of a lavatory and handed three
months’ cold cell; and, the irony of it, conveyed
back to Brisbane to serve the sentence. Neverthe-
less, on a dark night two months later, three swags
were unobtrusively lowered from a railway truck
in the Childers railway yard, and our State-assisted
passage of over 1300 miles was accomplished. It
had taken about 13 weeks.
“Mimosa”: After some years’ experience
of both lots, I think the animals of Australia show
more affection for those of their kind than do the
natives of S’Africa. So far I haven’t met any
Australian beast that is forced adrift from its mob,
herd, or pack by its own fellows and relatives when
it becomes qualified for an old-age pension. On the
other hand, in S’Africa practically all animals, from
the jackal to the elephant, “drum out” their has-
beens, and, strangely enough, the veterans show not
the least inclination to return. The “Arctic” treat-
ment received from its own family, coupled with the
solitary life, is probably responsible for the increased
vice of the recluse, not only towards its fellow beings,
but towards man. By the way, I’m not sure about
dingoes: Can anybody tell me how they deal with
their toothless brethren?
* » # *
“E. J.C.” : When I was at Gympie many
years ago the boys used a fuse and plug to depopu-
late the Mary River and its thickly-timbered creeks,
but I found on returning recently that the practice
had been scrap-heaped in keeping with progressive
ideas. The rifle bullet has supplanted the dynamite
plug. Your small boy waits for the shoal, fires
one shot slantwise, then strips and gropes for sick
and dead mullet. Judging from the bags I saw
it seems as effective as dynamiting, although I can’t
understand the reason. One youthful scientist oblig-
ingly dissected Mr. Mullet, and presented his much-
disturbed and blackened stomach in proof of a com-
pressed-air-concussion theory, but to me it did not
solve the problem as to why the rifle bullet should
sicken the fish. Will some contributor diagnose?
* * * *
“Vectis”: “Something to keep blowflies
off a horse’s injured leg?” asks “T.J.M.” (B.
11/5’11). Answer: A bandage. A wound on a part
that can’t be bandaged is a rather harder proposi-
tion. “T.J.M.” had better give up the useless
search for the universal blowfly-baffler. Some of the
winged horrors will attack anything that isn’t red-
hot. But practically it is just a question of taking
enough trouble. (If the horse isn’t worth it, sell
him.) Any strong-smelling antiseptic ( e.g lysol,
in proper dilution) will do the business, but it must
be used often and freely. Keep the animal in a
clean stable, and attend to him three times a day
or oftener. If “T.J.M.” had a wounded back, and
were turned into a paddock unclothed, and with
his hands tied, perhaps the blowflies would have a
good time with him. And he wouldn’t be much
better off if someone dabbed his wound with kero-
sene about twice a week. If only it were recognised
that the principles of surgical treatment are the
same for beasts as for men, there would be less piti-
able suffering.
“Jack” Anybody ever heard of one adult
bird spoon-feeding another? I know of a brown
weka ( Ocydromus earli ) which was born in the Wel-
lington (M.L.) Zoo. It has a malformed beak, its
upper and lower mandibles being crossed in such a
manner that it cannot pick up anything. Neverthe-
less, it is the fattest of a family of three, its plump
condition being due to the assistance of its mates,
who feed it with their own bills, thus setting a
nature-lesson for fat bishops. In Hutton and Drum-
mond’s “Animals of Maoriland” mention is made of
a huia ( Hetralocha acutirostis) , with a beak shaped
like a corkscrew. It could not possibly have picked
up food for itself, and, as it was evidently hatched with
the malformation and was fully grown, it- must have
been attended to in infancy by a pa and ma huia until
it was old enough for matrimony (the birds mate in
pairs), and was afterwards helped through life by
an affectionate hubby. The male and female of
these birds are so unlike that ornithologists at first
thought they belonged to different species, the bill
of the male being short and straight, while that of
the lady has a curve in it like the blade of Father
Time’s scythe. Saw a kaka ( Nestor meridionalis)
once that had had its beak shot off. As it was
fully grown and quite as fat as any other respectable
kaka, I conclude that it, too, must have been tuckered
by its relations. Once my nipper (which species, the
census tells us, is fast becoming extinct in M.L.)
brought home a young thrush (Alerula musica)
in a covered box. The mother was not in sight
when the boy abstracted the young ’un; neverthe-
less, within an hour, ma had arrived on the scene
and begun to feed her chick, at the same time en-
deavoring to persuade sonny to fly, which, owing to
his infancy, he was unable to do. This was con-
tinued for a day or so, the young ’un receiving all
the protection that I could give him, being left at
liberty to fly if he wished. After a while young
M. Musica dropped dead, and Mrs. M. M., with a
few plaintive cries, vanished. Have since been told
that Mrs. Thrush, when she cannot secure the re-
lease of her young, acts Virginius, and supplies her
offspring with poison berries.
* * * *
“Leo Lear” : What chiefly influences the
Aboscribe towards the purchase of a book when he
finds himself confronted with innumerable desirable
specimens ? The normal bloke, in other walks of
lifp, has his favorite author or publisher, but the
Aboriginalist is not normal. He is mostly a rudi-
mentary litterateur, with a strong liking for variety.
For my part, title, illustrations and color of
binding would decide the point, although illustra-
tions such as a Lindsay bear or a boiled “Hop” mis-
sionary would carry a bad title over Kosciusko. But
the color of the publication’s outer garments is the
thing. A dull green or a drab grey looks about
as encouraging as a wood-heap. Give me a good
flare-up like Sid Long’s “Flamingoes” in the Sydney
Art Gallery, interspersed with lines of blue and
stars of yellow—something that will catch the eye,
and compel you to grab the book to see if the
paint has soaked through to the middle. And even
if the reading matter of the volume is mud, there
is some compensation in having a decoration for
the book-slielf.
* * * *
“Tas.” : Bill had a genial temper, but li n
couldn’t keep it when he lost at cribbage. One night
we set up a four-handed game, and Bill and partner
were badly beaten. “How d’ye feel now ?” I said to
Bill, chaffingly. “Like Lazarus,” he replied, with his
temper in a knot. “Like Lazarus?” I says. “What
do you mean?” “Licked by dogs,” were the laconic
words of William,
“Wang” : This is how I dodge the mos-
quitoes, anyhow. I hang up two or three paper
masks that the boys use on G. Fawkes day, and
smear a bit of honey on them. The airopests, as
they arrive, are attracted by the bee fruit, drive
their torpedoes into the masks, and are held fast.
In the morning I go round with a saw and decapitate
the projections. The owners never return.
DOWN ON ITS KNEES.
THE MAN IN FRONT OF THE SWAG: “ Wot!
Is the 'orse goin' in fer the same game,
boss?”
“Sapphire Smith”: Re the Australian
vandal. Retribution catches up to him sometimes.
Thus, at the Barron Falls (N.Q.) shelter-shed, one
at least of the ugly ilk has been upheld to widespread
ridicule by some wandering Bedford. This particular
vandal had carved (say) “J. J. Smith and wife,” to
which the acid wag has added “pro tern.”
CARES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I don’t know if I care or not
(Moreover, I don’t care to know)
About the things that plague a lot
Of simple folk, and give them woe,
Or hopelessness, or fear or doubt;
I’ve not a lot to care about.
My ehiefest care is not to care.
For anything that care can give;
The clothes of life I well can spare:
The naked fact that 1 can live
Is all I want—in nakedness,
The less to care for I possess.
It strikes me as a foolish thing
That he who owes and cannot pay
Should make that cause for worrying;
The care should lie the other way ;
Or, if his creditors don’t care,
Why should he for his debts despair?
And what a simpleton is he
Who cares for one who does not care,
Ami frets his heart out grievously
To do her worship 1 When a pair
A care for one another share,
I do not mind that kind of care.
I do not care for cares ; and though
My carelessness a larger share
Of cares may bring, they give no woe;
Since I refuse to care for care,
I dodge all cares as best I can—
I never was a careful man.
N.S.W.
HAMER.


The population of Victoria at the
census of March 31, 1901, was
1,201,070, which was 113.930 be-
low the present figures.
NEW SOCIALIST ORGANISER.
He would require pledges that ,h„
r” U,d P '" vil,e M ' m With £2S per we.k
- 1, «,r;.T " Tire <=.“*
y life is to provide in Australia •
Sre r a C t ai ng tbe oWer A or the WOrkers «
) workers!’- Pr ° dUCin * P ° Wer «>•
yi(.tov*& Only gaoned 0 io if
your i-r,^cVnevn bos<>, I+s SicKenm's^O w
• w K "ftj'S a|?
WAl.lls The miJl<> of the gods sloWl^
9ec Win ( lucres d il bfory
& M of
Everybody condemned Joseph
f- Ward’s ill-judged motion for an
/Imperial Council; and when
I submitted it had not a solitary
friend, ejther English or colonial.
N't to say a good word for it.
Joe V
"to *be/
-itjc lion 3
—l<?fl (opvcn'tiote
iti rnosf-
V
Josebl! —"I sufboy? I 2yS well c^
lo'hn /‘ho-TunKindlyj :- ' BucK wb . ber a, live wlj^lb^
is
,j _
striKi»7p
illusion of -fife Arg« s v.de* of o^ c u/>/><?K '•
, The fact Is notorious that it is
the employee in Australia who
has the upper hand.
-">Vhen Hr. Fisher appeared in
England people probably looked’
for something of the sagacity,
the eloquence, or the personal
charm which raised Lincoln'
from a log cabin to the White
House; they saw instead a man,
who has nothing in the least l
striking in his personality.
y/i DEFENCE AND DENTISTRY
' An offer to supply to the
Federal Government a ful|y-
j | equipped dental corps has
' been declined.
CW Who cU-r" D
-rfje Mims f c*' of Defence in r'e{'‘*S»n2 ( do Im.
Co/j>b lb Showing morbid Com}>3vssion -foe
— AV'S' l ”~ Werry
rnVtm, hat/in fp >
2v.1l row in yet- b*.cK Jr
'ibXd . I wishes yer+o Under- Ajljil
&*r)d most- ber+icKler, lydy, Sn V
-theVe. none, o' my rearin'.
A LOOK AROUND.


GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
WORLD-FAMED
For
QUALITY.
HATS.
For
DURABILITY.
Weare Born to
offer Benefits
THE INSURANCE OFFICE
1 OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
Head Office-
-263 George St., Sydney.
Complete Cover will be
{■ranted promptly against
your liability under
The Workmen’s Compen-
sation Act, 1910.
WRITE AT ONCE.
H. H. Stockfeld \
H. S. Doherty /
Joint
ALuia (gei's
PERSONAL
ITEMS
John Wood Fleming, said to be the oldest
native of Victoria, was 74 on May 30, He is a
councillor of Brunswick, having been elected 50
years ago. He has been mayor six times.
Two of the three £lO,OOO Dreadnoughters
are now gone—Sam Hordern and “ KiHarney ”
Buchanan. Abbey Dangar alone remains. He
may get the tag yet, though it is a long time
coming.
“X ” : Dapper John Madden was a Wax-
cellency ; the bucolic Carmichael an Oxcellency.
What were the others ? I remember more than
one Hoaxcellency, and here and there a deplor-
able Hiccellency. You may even recollect a
Hogcellency.
R. J. Campbell, the beauty parson of
London, is booked for a trip to Australia. Camp-
bell combines pulpit originality with faded hair
and burning eyes, and makes more than a success
of it. He is the father of the absorbing theory
that Adam didn’t fall, and wasn’t even pushed.
Senator McGregor announces that he is the
27th direct lineal descendant of King Fergus I. of
Ireland and Scotland. King O’Malley, being of
Irish extraction, is, of course, descended from
Brian Boru—every Irishman is. The Australian
Labor Party is getting too aristocratic.
Amongst those who watched N.S.W.
Lieut.-Gov. Cullen “open” his first Parliament
the other day was Mrs. Eliza Jane White, widow
of R. H. D. White, M.L.C., who was a grandson
of Robert Hoddle, the first Surveyor-General of
Victoria and the godfather of the city of Mel-
bourne. Mrs. White is a daughter of the late
Dean Cowper, and mother of the Lieut.-Gov.’s
wife. She married Mr. White in May, 1863, long
before he succeeded in wresting his large fortune
from grandfather Hoddle.
THE ART
CRITIC.
OROVER BILL:
"Not a patch
on the bloke at
La Perouse!”
The most inveterate intei'jectors in the
N.S. W. Parliament, which suffers badly from the
interjector nuisance, are little Fitzparrot, who is
inane; and “Jack ” Meehan, who is minatory;
and Wood, who is spiteful. If a vote were taken,
the House would vote Wood’s interjections the
most intolerable, chiefly because they are the
worst-tempered. His splinters almost always
provoke retorts, though when the other night he
exclaimed ‘‘ I know nothing ! ” there wasn’t a
word said on the other side.
Miss Emilia Hawson, j ust dead in Adelaide
at 74, was a daughter of Henry Hawson, who
had the unusual distinction of coming to
Australia in his own ship, being a man of
wealth, in spite of having six sons and
seven daughters. This was in 1837.
He had a look at Sydney, Perth
and the infant Adelaide, but
finally adopted a widespread
opinion of the day, that Port
Lincoln was S.A.’s de-
stined capital, and took up
land there. There were
“bad niggers” in those
parts then. One brother,
a boy of 12, was found
with two spears in him.
He had lighted a fire,
and was burning the
ends off so as to be
able to ride home !
The wounds were,
however, mortal ;
and Port Lincoln
lias lately put up a
monument over his
remains. TheHamps
were neighbors, and
the sons of that
family, coming home
one night, had the
dreadful experience
of finding their
father’s head in the
camp-oven when
they went to look
there for supper.
Kink O’Malley
lately broke out in a
new spot, and sub-
sisted for 10 days on
three quarts of water
per day as a cure
for headaches, from
which lie has suf-
fered for 20 years.
What O’Malley
really wants, how-
ever, is to learn to
do without water,
not food, in view of
a possible prolonged
residence at Yass-
berra.
Makea, the stout old lady who has for
many years past been queen, or ariki, of Raro-
tonga, Maoriland’s foreign possession, lately died,
aged 72. The Federal Council will probably
appoint Rangi, a former candidate, as her suc-
cessor.
Lecturing lately on “Life in Ancient
Athens,” Professor Tucker, of Melbourne Uni.,
said: “One pleasing scene of quiet domestic life is
recorded for us in the marble of the time.” Then
he tapped for the lantern picture, and the operator
threw upon the screen—a ferocious bout be-
tween two wrestlers, one of whom had got the
other down !
From Sydney Telegraph :
Had he lived with the illustrious brotherhood of the
earlier period mentioned, Gilbert would have frequented
smart clubs and been dined frequently in titled company.
From which it may be assumed that when Dill
Snowball dies the Telegraph will commiserate
with him in that he never managed to secure an
audience with the Pope.
Somebody got away with Police Commis-
sioner O’Callaghan’s overcoat from Moonee
Valley (Melb.) racecourse the other day. Proba-
bly it was the purloiner’s only successful invest-
ment at the meeting, and he simply took it
because he wanted it badly. Therein he differed
from O’Callaghan and his men. They rarely take
anybody or anything, no matter how badly
wanted the body or the thing may be.
“ Diogenes ” looks for the Original Wow-
ser:—
I think he was John Tawell. Anyhow, if John was not
the Original Wowser, he was certainly an O.W. John
was a good young man of London Town, and did his best
to grow a face that looked like a hymn book. He
aspired to the hand of his master's housemaid, and made
good. Just at the time John was most assiduous in his
benevolence towards the collection-plate he got found
out. Tlie incidental discoveries were sufficient to hang
John, but hts previous fervency saved him, and instead
of going to Heaven at the end of a rope he came to Aus-
tralia in a convict ship. John soon got a ticket-of-leave
from Governor Macquarie and set up as a chemist in
Hunter-street. He waxed rich, and was joined by his
wife. Then he started in on the Wowser business again.
He built a church, donated £3O annually to a religious
school, and emptied 600 gallons of rum into Sydney Har-
bor to encourage temperance. Whilst his wife was' ill she
was attended by a nurse. John started aspiring to the
nurse's hand, and aspired with very good success. He
kept the nurse in seclusion till the wife died, when he
started aspiring again, and wedded a widow. Possibly
feeling that he was behaving badly towards the nurse in
keeping her in seclusion, he administered prussic acid.
So John went to glory on his birthday in the year 1845.
A. G. Hales, who once drove an Australian
pen that could paint purple patches but couldn’t
spell to save its life, was at latest seeking color for
more pot-boilers in South America. Hales,
having done a good deal of war-correspondent’s
work, is nowadays a more militant “ Smiler” than
ever, and he writes to a Buenos Ayres paper to
say that the U-S. and Japan must come to holts
shortly, wherefore he wants all Australians in
S. America to get ready to chip in for Uncle Sam: —
We Australians may kick in times of peace against our
Yankee cousins, but in time of trouble we can be counted
on to the last man. In this respect I should be very-
pleased to get a note from every Australian in the Argen-
tine, not for publication, but that I might show the
American authorities that Australian sentiment is solid
in time of danger. If Roosevelt does mobilise his Rough
Riders, there is nothing under Heaven that I would like
better than to take two or three hundred Anglo-Saxons
from these parts to the “ Old Man,” and say, “ Sir, here
we are, such as we are, try us out.”
Whereupon, no doubt, the “Old Man ” would say,
“ Thank you kindly. And now can we sell you
some canned beef ? ”
AN AUTHORITY ON DOORSTEPS.
POLICEMAN : “You had better get home; you
cannot sleep on this doorstep, you know.”
STOP OUT (dreamily): " Yesh I can, eon-
shable, it'sh just as comfort — abl's our slip
John James Moikle, the Maorilander who
for many years thumped a drum through the
islands to recruit public sympathy for his claim
to be compensated for false imprisonment, has
gone to London in the hopes of raising more
trouble. Meikle has been paid considerable
amounts by the M.L. Government, and last year
was voted £2500 by Parliament in full and final
payment. But as the Government had proposed
to pay £5OOO, he considers that he has been de-
frauded, and is now seeking a means to drag the
British Government into the argumeiit. This
paper figures it: Meikle + His Chance of Getting
that Extra £2500 = Buckley’s.
Prof. Laurie, who recently resigned the
chair of Logic and Philosophy in Melbourne Uni-
versity, is an old inky-
vvayfarer. He arrived in
Vic., an LL.D. of Edin-
burgh, in the late ’6o’s,
and bought the Warrnam-
bool Standard. He in-
duced the proprietor of the
Examiner to amalgamate
with him, and the twain
became one under the
editorship of the learned
doctor. A little later hjs
partner, one Fairfax,
withdrew, and Laurie be-
came sole proprietor. In
1882 he was chosen to
lecture in Logic at the
University, and three cr
four years later he sat in
the chair of Logic and
Philosophy. He still kept
on the inky way, and until
a short while ago wrote
leaders and reviews for
the Australasian. It is
said that the Prof., who is
still full of mental vigor,
proposes to devote a good deal of time to litera-
ture of a solid brand.
Inclement Wragge scored a point over the
authorised expeditions despatched to various
localities to view the solar eclipse of April 29. He
formed himself into a private expedition to the
Friendly Islands, where he observed the pheno-
mena in a perfect sky what time the official par-
ties elsewhere battled with an obscurity due to
sudden cloud formation. The British expedition
was quite unsuccessful.
South Aus. has a Scotchbyterian, Rev. E.
11. Ross, who believes that the best way to argue
with, a man with a gun is to have a gun yourself,
and know how to use it. Ross therefore applied
for a commission as second lieutenant in the
infantry. But, taking parsons at their own valu-
ation and classifying them with the women and
children, the Soustr ilian Commandant refused to
recommend the Board at Headquarters to grant
the application. Precedent was with the Com-
mandant ; but the Board, at its next meeting, ran
the office sword through the heart of that ancient
warrior, and recorded its opinion that any parson
possessed of the necessary physical and other
qualifications may receive a combatant com-
mission.
In view of his cutting style, the Acting-
Prime Minister is to be christened Billy Hews.
Yung-Liang-Hwang, the new Consul-
General for Australia, went through a University
course in America, and speaks English in a fluent,
florid fashion. He professes Christianity of the
Methodist brand, and may yet be seen on some
Pleasant Sunday Afternoon in double harness
with Joe Cook or P.M.G. Thomas.
L. M. Isitt, Maoriland’s apostle of Cold
Tea and, incidentally, of sly grog, has gained a
verdict with £5OO damages and costs against a
trades protection association of Christchurch.
The society black-listed Isitt on the information
of a chemist, who denounced the Chief Wowser as
a bad pay; and its unavailing defence was
“truth, no malice and privilege.” Some law
points have, however, to be threshed out before
Isitt can wear the plaster on his injured feelings.
The clothes of John Fuller, Victoria’s
new Governor, are not so full of Fuller as they
might be—which is to say that he suffers from
the same sloppy complaint as recent Governor
Carmichael in the early stages of his “govern-
ing ” career. Later on, the whole Carrnike
family spruced up tremendously, and left looking
a brighter, more blooming and more prosperous
bunch than when they arrived.
J. A. Millar, Maoriland’s Minister for
Marine, etc., has broken out as an inventor ; and
his patent covering a collapsible rowlock has been
taken up by Stone and Sons, Admiralty contrac-
tors. The rowlock can’t be lost in a capsize, but
it can be thrown below the level of the gunwale.
Millar has been talking lately of seeking a peace-
ful life outside politics; and perhaps the profits
of his invention will run to a fig-tree and some
cucumbers, with an occasional whisky and half a
sov. for the “tote.”
Died a few days ago Frederick Bevill,
M.A., who in the ’Bo’s opened a school in Dar-
linghurst (Sydney) called Royston College, much
patronised by the New Jerusalem which has
grown up in the adjacent village of Potts Point.
Later on he threw up the college, and became
secretary to the Publicans’ Union. Bevill, who
was about the stoutest man in Sydney in middle
age, and as such was not the ideal dominie for
irreverent schoolboys, began life as a journalist,
and went to Japan as special for a London paper
Norman Cameron, brother of the soldier-
Senator and a one-time stormy petrel of Tas.
Assembly and later of the Representatives, is
again offering himself to his country after four
years’ compulsory retirement. The Camerons
have perhaps as much solid wealth as any family
in Tasmania. Notwithstanding that, the people
who asked him to stand sent the request in a
reply-paid telegram. In opening his campaign
the other night, Norman said this fine ponsidera-
tion had deeply touched him, and helped to
melt his firm resolve not to forgive his country’s
previous base ingratitude.
Sam McCaughey’s action in promptly
handing in his Federal land-tax, “ with gratitude
to the country which had done so much for him,”
brings back the yarn that was prevalent in the
Riverina district when James Ashton fathered
the State land-tax. At that time Ashton was
running the Narrandera Argus ; and when the
big squatter was called upon to pay, the story
was that he wrote to the Argus to the effect
that, owing to the heavy ini oads made upon his
income, he would be no longer able to continue as
a subscriber. Ashton replied that he was sorry
any action of his should cripple the squatter, and
that he had given instructions to have him put on
the free list.
LIGHTENING THEIR DARKNESS.
The Corporation of the City of London, the city
companies and business houses are spending £100,000
on illuminations in connection with the Coronation
festivities.— Cable.
THE FACE AT THE WINDOW : “ There, now—
ain't it considerate? That will save them
the price of a night light."
George A. Jury, the Adelaide warehouse-
man, who owned the Flinders-lane (Melb.)
building consumed by fire the other day,
is managing partner of G. and It. Wills.
Thirty-eight years ago Jury joined the
firm as a clerk. There had been only three
managing partners, but in 12 years he had
not only turned himself into a fourth, but had
married the daughter of one of the other three.
As a clerk he worked alongside Hayward, the
founder of the big John Martin firm. “Jimmy 1 ’
Marshall and Taylor, of the next-biggest Rnndle-
street concern, came to Australia at about £vo a
year to work for one Northmore, an early draper,
who fell foul of the daily paper ad. rates and
established his own rag.
RECOMPENSE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Obit. 30/5/’ll: Sir W. S. Gilbert, Knight.
He gave a dull and stilted age
A store of quaint, delightful quips ;
Pretentiousness and snobbery
And sham he lashed with scorpion-whips.
His magic people, elfish, gay,
Absurdly sane and gravely mad,
Shared with the sun the gracious gift
Of making all the nations glad.
He proved that England still can breed
A wit whose touch is sure and light;
And, at the end, his country turned
And made her Wonder-Child—a Knight!
N.S.W.
10-2-4.


Tobacco
<V
0\
>6
a
S*
S
a
Sh f&%|f
$> $
*$
%
s
s§
tu
*>
«v°
\\/,
yp
ore
Order
BEFORE
30ib June
&
SECURE
A STOCK
The Manufacturers of “VENUS” TOBACCO will give FREE in return for the
RED PAPER SEALS from the 2oz. Tins, or the TIN (figure) TAGS
from the Plugs, as under;
NICKEL KEYLESS
WATCH.
I
liSi
For
75 Venus (2oz. tin) Seals
or
75 Venus (plug) Tags.
LADY’S MOROCCO LEATHER BAG,
For 75 Venus (2oz. tins) Seals or
75 Venus (plug) Tags,
LEATHER PUZZLE
PURSE.
4E&,
9E
For
25 Venus (2oz tin) Seals
or
25 Venus (plug) Tags.
For 10 Venus
(2oz. tin) Seals.
For 15 Venus
(2oz. tin) Seals.
SELF-FILLING FOUNTAIN PEN.
FIRST QUALITY TWO BLADES POCKET KNIFE.
Or 10 Venus
(plug) Tags.
Or 15 Venus
(plug) Tags.
DIRECTIONS.
1. Send or post the Seals or Tags to KRONHEIMER LTD., Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, or Perth, and write your name
and address distinctly on the outside of the package.
2. Post at the same time a letter stating the number of Seals or Tags in the package, and the gift you desire.
3. — The Gifts can be obtained on personal application, or will be posted free of charge to anyone complying with
the foregoing directions.
4— This offer will absolutely close on 30t JUNE, 191 s.
A


BETTINCTON
SMOKELESS BOILER
Adapted for Burning Slack.
Guaranteed Highest Efficiency.
Write for particulars to
FRASER & CHALMERS LTD.,
Equitable Building;, Melbourne;
Macdonald Street, Kalgoortie ;
New Zealand; D. M. DAVIS, Agent, Hall of
Commerce, High Street, Auckland. [i
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Western Australian Bank:—
Net To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £
Mar., 1904.. 22,278 174 p.c. = 10,938 11,340 313,380
Sept., 1904.. 24,846 17£ „ „ 1",938 13,908 327,288
Mar., 1905 .. 21,233 174 .» ~10,938 10,295 337.583
Sept., 1905 .. 21,309 20 ~ ~12,500 8,869 346,452
Premiums on 2500 new shares .. 25,000 371,452
Mar., 1906.. 20,556 20 p.e. = 12,500 8,056 379,508
Sept., 1906.. 24,059 20 ~ ~15,000 9,059 388,567
Mar., 1907 .. 24.758 20 ~ ~15,000 9,758 398,325
Sept., 1907.. 27,993 20 „ ~15,000 12,993 411,318
Premiums on 2500 new shares .. 31,560 442,878
Mar., 1908 .. 23,568 20 p.e. = 17,006 6,562 449,440
Premiums on new shares .. .. 11,372 460,812
Sept.,l9. 8.. 21,457 20 p.e. = 17,500 3,957 464,769
Mar., 1909.. 25,238 20 „ ~ 17,500 7,738 472,507
Sept., 1909.. 27,429 20 „ ~17,500 9,929 482,436
Premiums on new shares .. .. 27,024 509,460
Mar., 1910.. 27,945 20 p.e. = 19,189 8,756 518,216
Premiums on new shares .. .. 12,976 531,192
Sept., 1910.. 27,206 20 p.e. = 20,000 7,206 538,398
Mar., 1911 ... 29,066 20 „ ~20,000 9,066 647,464
This bank was in a very small way, though it was
doing a very profitable business, when the dreadful
t’othersider broke into the West, turned up gold,
and started to make Cinderella get busy. In 1890
the capital was only £60,000, and the dividend
was 174 p.e. Naturally, paying a div. of that size,
the bank was able to command a big premium for
any new shares it issued; and every new issue has
thus been made to add to the reserves. The average
paid for the £lO shares has been somewhere about
£26. The present paid capital is £200,000, so
that on the majority of the shares the 20 p.e. divi-
dend really means only a shade over 7{ p.e. Now it
is proposed to send a new lot of shares to market,
the meeting held the other day having authorised
the directors to issue another 5000 ( £50,000),
though the terms have not yet been disclosed. Pre-
sumably, however, the established practice of offer-
ing them to shareholders at a fixed premium won’t
be departed from; the plan of putting them up to
tender has been tried, but doesn’t seem to be popular.
There is really no call to get in more capital so
far as the strength of the bank is concerned. It at
present owes the public altogether £3,273,671, and
its capital and reserves combined total £747,464,
so there is less than £4 Bs. of public money for
every £1 of the shareholders’ money; and that is a
very moderate proportion indeed. Further, even of
the comparatively small amount of public money, no
less than 48 p.e. is in liquid assets ; and, of course,
the greater the proportion of liquid assets the
smaller the risk. Nevertheless, though there may be
no urgent call for more share capital, if share-
holders want to make security the first consideration,
they are following the right policy.
Some stupid person at the meeting the other day,
in proposing that the new shares be issued, said that
if the Referenda vote hadn’t been “No, No,” he
would “certainly not have consented to the increase
of capital or taken up any shares.” The same sort
of foolish talk was heard in the West 12 years ago,
when the same brand of foolish people foretold dis-
aster ; even the late Speaker of the Assembly blath-
ered that Bigjohn Forrest deserved to be boiled in
fat or something of the sort for helping to hand the
State over to the Eastern plunderers. Yet in 10
years this bank has shown the following changes:—
1901. 1911.
Notes and bills .. .. £182,192 £296,465
Free deposits .. .. 1,006,302 1,467,481
Deposits at interest .. 728,702 1,509,725
Liquid assets 1,283,982 1,577,062
Advances 913,134 2,390,072
Premises 53,235' 74,000
And the net profit, which was £11,787 for the half-
year to March, 1901, was £29,066 for the half-year
to March, 1911. However, and notwithstanding such
figures, the foolish person before mentioned has a
perfect right to refuse to put up his capital for
banking purposes. In that case it is just as well
that he and others like him should understand that
banking facilities will be provided even though they
won’t provide them. This sort of gentleman really
intimates to the Labor Government that, if the
Labor policy is adopted, Private Enterprise can’t be
depended upon to put up money for banking. Which,
of course, supplies the Labor Government with all
the argument it needs for establishing a Common-
wealth State Bank. Some people don’t know when
to hold their tongues.
Like most banks, the Westralian has had plenty of
money pushed towards it during the year, and—
mainly on account of agricultural deVelopment—
it has got customers for more than half of it—prac-
tically for all the fixed deposits. There no doubt
will be many farming failures in the West; but the
land prices are at present so low that there can’t be
any bad smash. This bank, moreover, hasn’t shown
much affection for the outlying parts, where success
is most doubtful. Aggregate figures as to March,
1910, and March, 1911, follow:
Mar., TO. Mar.,’ll.
Notes in circulation.. £147.399 £146,661 Dec. £738
Bills, etc 153,140 149,804 Dec. 3,336
Free deposits.. ..1,231,884 1,467,481 Inc. 235,597
Deposits at interest. 1,114,657 1,509,725 Inc. 395,068
Liquid assets .. .. 1,283,754 1,577,062 Inc. 293,308
Advances .. ..2,031,783 2,390,072 Inc. 358,289
Premises .. .. 68,950 74,000 Inc. 6,050
Having the use of comparatively little public money,
the interest return calculated on combined capital
and reserves is only moderate; it was at the rate of
£7 17s. 6d. p.e. for the past half-year. A low in-
terest return often suggests that some of the assets
are over-valued, or are not productive; but there
are plenty of other satisfactory explanations in this
case. Among other things, the low figure at which
premises stand in the books suggests that a poliev
of conservative valuation is followed. And the
policy of strengthening the reserves by issuing all
shares at a stiff premium is evidence of the same
satisfactory kind.
The Electric Light Department op the
Sydney City Council :
Sinking Deficit
Fund less
Contri- Written Sinking
Dec., Iftjsa bution. Off. Fund.
£4,794
1904.. £1,921 £1767 6,715
1905 ( 661 2045 ■ e1404 8,780
\Loan flotation expenses, £787 .. .. 9,567
Profit.
/ 8.648 3349 1400 2,319
"I. Net profit on Loan flotation, £357 .. 1,962
{Loan flotation and other expenses, £lOl 2,063
Goodwill Empire Co., £31,000 .. .. 33,063
Compensation for disturbance, £13,300 19,763
Profit. Sinking Fund. Written Off.
£19,144 £3587 £l4OO 2,019
{Goodwill of purchases, £79,375 .. .. 81,394
Less Loan premiums. £lOOO .. ~ 80,394
Profit. Sinking Fund. Written Off.
£17,697 £4652 62,697
1909.. 37,371 5211 25,326
Loan expenses, £627 25,953
Reserves.
1910,. 45,471 6999 19,518
The last year’s profit was arrived at as follows:
Balance from working £44,787
Sinking Fund interest .. .. . 684
Total .. ... , £45,471
And the amount was appropriated this way:—
Sinking Fund contribution .. .. .. .. £7,685
Depreciation Fund contribution .. .. .. 17,774
Renewal Fund .. .. .. .. .. .. 5,000
Profit and Loss.. .. .. .. .. .. 4,711
Written off Goodwills.. .. .. .. .. 10,000
Written off Preliminaries, etc 501
Total £45,471
The whole position as to reserves, etc., may be sum-
marised as follows:- —■
Book value of goodwill .. .. .. ..£100,375
Loan flotations and other exes. .. .. .. 3,050
Total paper assets .. £104,025
Less Sinking Fund £28,295
Depreciation Fund .. .. 50,053
Renewals R serve 5,000
Capital Reserve .. .. .. 13,300
Loan Premiums .. .. .. 5.31
P. and L. balance 26,304
123,543
Reserves .. .. £19,518
The Sydney City Council began this undertaking
with practically no goodwill. That is to say, all the
capital it borrowed and put into the concern was
represented by substantial and tangible assets. The
only “assets” of the other sort were a few small
preliminary expenses. At that time there were four
private cos. carrying on electric light and power
business in Sydney—the Empire, Strand, Imperial
and Oxford-street, each confined to its own little
section of the city. The municipal and private
mains trailed along in front of the same premises,
and, apart from that waste, there was a ridiculous
loss in administration expenses and in upkeep, etc. ;
for the municipal plant was capable of supplying
the whole lot. An arrangement was, therefore,
made to buy out the private concerns, a start being
made with the Empire Co. The very satisfactory
arrangement made with that concern served as a
basis for the other deals. The council didn’t buy
tile plant, but it bought the business at a fixed price.
The customers were transferred to the council, and
all revenue in excess of Id. per unit is paid to the
co. in extinction of the capital debt; interest on
the unpaid balance is also payable in some cases.
The total amount now owing and repayable in that
way is £56,956. The amounts owing at various
periods are shown next:—
1908. 1909. 1910.
Empire (purchase money) £17,650 £12,222
Strand (ditto and interest) 40,103 39,190 £32,248
Imperial ( „ ~ ) 17,074 18,778 17,422
Oxford-st. ( „ ~ ) 10,086 9,270 7,286
Total owing £84,913 £79,460 £56.956
The bargain with the Imperial Co. turned out a
little better during the past year; in the previous
year the excess revenue from the transferred cus-
tomers did not suffice to pay interest on the capital
owing, so that the indebtedness to the old co. actually
increased.
The reserves, it will be noted, include a Deprecia-
tion Fund; also a Renewals Fund has just been
started. As usual, insufficient provision was made
at the outset to cover depreciation ; but in 1909 the
council thought over its sins, and, getting some good
advice, decided to put by an annual 3 p.c. of the
capital outlay. Figures were quoted here to show
that other and older electric light and power con-
cerns—that of Melbourne, for instance—had found
even 3 p.c. insufficient. Apparently the council, ad-
vised by what seems to be a very good committee,
has come to the conclusion that it should be more;
hence, no doubt, the special reserve for special re-
newals. The only other complaint to make is that
the Depreciation and Renewal Funds are not in-
vested separately, like the Sinking Fund. This paper
admits that all this is in accordance with practice;
but that doesn’t make it right. The object of a de-
preciation or renewal fund is to provide the means
to buy new plant when the old wears out; and you
can’t buy new plant with a fund which has already
been spent in extensions. Anyway, since these funds
are more or less a set-off against actual depreciation,
they are not a true reserve; in other words, the
undertaking isn’t really as much to the good as the
figures indicate. Nevertheless, it has made very
good progress indeed. The object of the very
gradual Sinking Fund (1 p.c. p.a.) is. of course, to
repay the various Cohens who lent the council the
money to build the works, etc. Some time after the
middle of this century, if things go all right, the
city will really own the business. A 1 p.c. sinking
fund, invested at 31- p.c., will wipe out a debt in
43$ years.
Further details of the working of the business
follow:
Working Net
Revenue. Expenses. Revenue. Interest. Loss.
1904.. £4,061 £5,313 £2,436 £3,688
1905.. 22,176 15,005 £7,171 7,874 703
Profit.
1906.. 40,983 21,567 19,416 10,931 8,485
1907.. 65,868 31,899 33,969 15,025 18,944
1908.. 93,600 56,785 36,815 19,380 17,435
1909 . 125.980 67,338 61,642 24,575 37,067
1910.. 166,047 88,497 77,550 27,763 49,787
Deduct the £5OOO transferred to the Renewal Fund,
and you get the £44,787 of profit mentioned earlier
in these remarks. As to previous years’ figures,
there are slight differences between the profit shown
in that table and in a previous table; this is by
reason of small amounts having been deducted in the
first table on account of preliminary exes. The pre-
sent debenture debt is £750,000. The profit, after
writing off (say) £22,000 for depreciation, amounts
to just on 3% p.c.—which provides for sinking fund
and contingencies. It is a reasonable margin.
Suburban municipalities begin to see the advant-
ages of coming into a scheme whose chief object is
to supply light and power at cost price, plus a
margin for sinking fund and contingencies. So the
output continues to grow:—
Power. Lighting.
1906 .. .. 1,202,482 units. 1,361,803 units.
1907 .. 2,386,959 „ 1,945,349 „
1908 .. .. 3,097,636 „ 2,540,437 „
1909 .. ■ . 4,374,898 „ 3,171,795 „
1910 .. .. 5,367,979 „ 3,583,953 „
This is exclusive of light and power supplied to the
old cos’, transferred customers, and of sales made to
the City Council for municipal services.
* * * *
Port Adelaide Dock Co. (S.A.):—
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
June,’o6.. £4399 7 p.c. =£2680 £1719 £12,865
Dec., ’06.. 4074 7 „ „ 2680 £lOOO 394 13,259
June,’o7.. 3231 7 ~ „ 2680 551 13,810
Dec., ’07.. 4893 7 „ „ 2680 2233 16,023
June,’oB.. 4546 7 „ „ 2680 1866 17,889
Dec., ’OB.. 4994 7 „ „ 2680 2314 20,203
June,’o9.. 3683 7 ~ „ 2680 1003 21,206
Dec., ’09.. 5203 7 ~ „ 2680 2523 23,729
June, TO.. 4882 9 „ „ 3446 1436 25,165
Dec., 10.. 6746 9 „ ~ 3446 3300 28,465
The prosperity of S. Australia is reflected in the
figures. And the last half-year’s figures might have
been made to look even better had not £674 been
spent on deepening, and charged to working ex-
penses ; this was in addition to ordinary repairs.
The co. has £4OOO on deposit; apart from that,
practically all the reserves have been put into the
dock property.
* * * *
The Newcastle and Hunter River Steamship
Co. (N.s.w.): —
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves
Dec., 1904.. £3092 6 p.c. = £3OOO £92 £8,793
June, 1905.. 2960 6 ~ ~ 3000 8,753
Dec., 1905.. 3385 6 „ ~ 3000 385 9,138
June, 1906.. 3053 6 ~ ~ 3000 53 9,191
Dec., 1906.. 5128 6 ~ ~ 3000 2128 11,319
June, 1907.. 6348 6 ~ „ 3000 334 s 14,667
Dec., 1907.. 3247 6,, ~ 3000 247 14,914
ions _PB3I 6 „ „ 3ooo\
June, 1908.. -J W r itten . bfl , £ 2500 j 11,245
Dec., 1908.. 3271 6 p.c. = 3000 271 11,516
June, 1909.. 2829 , 6 „ ~ 3000 11,345
Dec., 1909.. 3323 6 „ „ 3000 323 11,668
June, 1910.. 2798 6 ~ ~ 3000 11,466
Dec., 1910.. 4441 6 ~ „ 3000 1441 12,907
The profits include £lOOO added to the Insurance
Fund, and a small addition to Contingency Fund.
The published accounts really tell little, because
amounts of unknown, but no doubt variable size, are
written off revenue to cover depreciation. Various
balance-sheet items have moved as follows: —
Deo., June, Dec., June, Dec.,
1904. 1909. 1909. 1910. 1910.
£ £ £ £ £
Ship Property .. 41,300 85,350 81,150 76,862 71,850
Freeholds, etc... 7,175 3,036 2,863 2.724 1,908
Plant, etc. ~ 2,730 5,446 5,169 5,032 4,974
Liquid Assets .. 66,157 24,624 31,619 34,266 46,358
Debts to Public.. 5,569 4,804 5,932 4,189 8,924
The shrinkage in the book-value of ship property
suggests that in the half-year the amount written
off was very substantial; and there is no doubt that,
owing to the good seasons, the co. is still doing un-
usually well. The very solid liquid assets are mostly
cash ; and, in view of their size and substance, some
slight pressure has been put on the directors lately
to increase the dividend. The co. is, however,
managed on very conservative lines; and the direc-
tors so far show no disposition to go beyond 6 p.c.
* * * *
The Metropolitan Mutual Permanent Build-
ing and Investment Association, Ltd. (Sydney),
from the year when £103,898 of capital was written
off on account of the revaluation of securities:—
Loss on Net Divi- Written Re-
Dec., Profit. Sales. Profit, dends. Off. serves.
190 L.. £1597 £5OO £1097 Nil £21,811
1902.. 538 385 153 Nil 21,964
Forfeited capital, £lB .. .. 21,982
1903.. 2223 591 1632 Nil 23,614
1904.. 2019 1041 978 Nil £2500 22,092
1905.. 1217 743 474 Nil -- 22,566
1906.. 1398 98 1300 Nil 447 23,419
1907.. 1152 291 861 Nil 24,280
(5 p c.)
1908.. 1660 970 690 £2lOB 247 22,615
(34 P-C.)
1909.. 1541 619 922 1404 22,133
(5J p.c.)
1910.. 2785 581 2204 2458 6957 14,922
And this shows a few other things:—
1901. 1907. 1908. 1909. 1910.
Capital ..£42,083 £42,099 £42,138 £42,138 £42,138
Debentures.. 51,572 20,229 Nil Nil Nil
Other debts 57,495 51,748 28,548 21,807 6,603
Advances .. 14,175 13,517 12,080 11,491* 6,786*
Defaulters’
mortgages 23,109 5,847 4,700
Estates, etc. 132,363 97,287 75,489 73,044 56,051
Cash, etc... 3,449 22,746 4,349 4,069 4,584
including defaulters’ mortgages.
So the co. last year got rid of a fair amount of the
old dead horse, and the liabilities have now been re-
duced to £6603. When the smash came, close upon
20 years ago now, the total was £254,000. But the
reduction has cost the shareholders pretty severely.
There are 28,092 shares, which were gradually called
up to £5 ; and then the capital was written down
to 30s. Also, the old debenture-holders had to put
up with the reduction of their interest to 3 p.c.
Things have, however, gradually righted themselves
more or less, and for 1908 the first of the new series
of divs. was paid. Last year, in the hope of pushing
off properties faster, book-values were reduced, and
the reserve fund was also written down to make
things balance. In other words, the reserve fund to
that extent was mere froth, which shows what a re-
serve fund in a concern of this sort may be really
worth. The bulk of the property is leasehold—-
leaseholds represent £47,225 of the total property
item of £56,051 —but the book-value is being re-
duced by an annual appropriation of £2OOO, which
is not shown as profit. Even after making that
standing charge, the leaseholds show a return of
about 7 p.c.; so the co. isn’t by any means in the
same position as one whose assets consist mainly of
the suburban block which merely gapes for someone
to come along and buy it, and meantime only collects
jam tins and rate notices.
* * * *
The Sydney Permanent Freehold Land and
Building Go.
Loss Loss Total Capital
on on Loss nomi-
Busi- Proper- for Total nally
Dec., ness. ties. Year. Deficit. Intact.
1899 .. £33 £2,328 £2,361 £23,506 £79,249
1900.. 340 34,372 34,712 58,218 44,537
1901 .. 562 2,723 3,285 61,503 41,252
1902 .. 361 2,006 2,367 63,870 38,885
1903 .. 89 89 63,959 38.796
1904 .. 383 1,725 2,108 66,067 36,688
1905 ... 352 236 588 66,655 36,100
1906.. 472 120 592 67,247 35,5'8
1907 .. 521 521 67,768 34,989
1908 .. 365 11,626 11,991 79,759 22,998
1909.. 478 137 615 80,374 '22,383
1910 ... 462 462 80,836 21,922
This is the wreck of an old land-boom co. Most
others long ago had a revaluation, and cut their
losses by writing off capital. This one hasn’t had a
cleaning-up, though something of the sort now seems
probable. The original trouble was, of course, a big
debt-close upon £300,000. This money was in
shrinkable securities; but, as usual, though the
securities shrank, the debt didn’t, and the share-
holders had to stand the racket. Much of the pro-
perty was suburban land—the sort that brings in
nothing but ratepapers. Hence, though the property
assets are supposed to still represent over £48,000,
the total amount received in rents and interest last
year was only £449. It is all very sad. Also, it is
all very well worth remembering.
* * * *
The Equitable Permanent Benefit, Build-
ing, Land and Savings Institution (Sydney) :
Written Re-
Mar., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves.
1899 .. £7,810 9 per cent. = £6363 £421 £28,339
1900 .. No information supplied 317 26,785
1901.. 7,556 9 per cent. = 6373 1286 26,682
1902 .. 8,431 9 „ „ 6338 522 28,253
1903 .. 8,466 12 „ „ 8451 210 28,058
1904 .. 8,966 9 „ „ 6338 1053 29,633
1905 .. 9,086 9 „ ~ 6338 30 32,351
1906 .. 9,545 12 „ „ 8451 677 32,768
1907 .. 9,875 9 „ ~ 6338 36,305
1908 .. 10,102 9 „ ~ 6338 518 39,551
1909 .. 9,933 12 „ ~ 8451 455 40,578
1910 .. 10,741 9 ~ „ 6338 760 44,221
1911 .. 11,835 9 „ ~ 6338 100 49,618
The distressful results of Socialistic legislation and
of Federation and Protection are manifest here.
The country never has been so prosperous; and the
city has had a bigger slice out of that prosperity
than it ought to have had. So there has been a very
vigorous suburban building campaign, for which
several things have been responsible: the marriage
rate has improved (a sure sign of prosperity) ; muni-
cipal taxation on unimproved values has made subur-
ban estates available at a much lower price than they
certainly would have soared to if it hadn’t been for
that tax; and increased pay, due to Wages Boards,
has decided many a man to venture into a cabin of
his own. So this lending co. has been having a very
much better time; advances have moved along like
this:—
1908 .. £224,725 I 1910 .. £247,725
1909 .. 232,259 | 1911 .. 262,306
The eo.’s own cauital is only £70,425 ; the balance
(apart from that supplied by reserves) comes from
deposits, £179,242. This large debt, practically
all represented by shrinkable securities, constitutes a
pretty considerable risk, of course; but it means
large profits so long as things go well. When they
don’t go well, the co. is liable to have property
thrown on its hands, and then the large reserves may
come in very handy. Still, the advances are all
understood to be lent out on building-society terms
of repayment; so unless the slump is very sudden
and very sharp, there shouldn’t be much loss. Alto-
gether, the return looks remarkably, good in com-
parison with the risks. The future is in more doubt.
The State has hitherto done practically nothing in
N. S. Wales towards assisting working people to be-
come their own landlords; but it is now following
in the footsteps of S. Australia, and if the result in
N. S. Wales is the same as it is in S. Australia,
there won’t be any 9 or 12 p.c. to be made out of
this class of business by private concerns. As to
the 12 p.c. which appears occasionally in the table,
the co. reviews the position every third year, and,
if it thinks it can afford it, makes a distribution of
part of the surplus.
The Grand Hotel, Ltd. (Melbourne): —
Nominal
Written To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. Dividends. Off. serves. serves.
1900.. £4035 If p.c. =£562 £1,336 £2137 £15,750
1901.. 4608 3 ~ ~ 927 3681 19,431
1902.. 7255 3 ~ ~ 927 6328 25,759
Loss.
1903.. 629 Nil 25,130
Profit.
1904.. 2061 Nil 2061 27,191
1905.. 2018 Nil 2018 29,209
1906.. 3511 2| p.c. = 843 -- 2668 31,877
1907.. 1323 Nil 1323 33,200
1908.. 3021 2J p.c. = 843 2178 35,378
1909.. 2044 2| „ „ 843 1201 36,579
1910.. 2713 2j ~ ~ 843 1870 38.449
1911.. 5597 3| ~ „ 1124 11,553 31,369
As to this last line, it may be that or it may be
something else ; the accounts are presented in so un-
satisfactory a way that one can’t be sure. Formerly
there was a Replacement and Reparation Fund,
which 12 months ago was in credit £12,608, and
another £1344 has since been transferred to it. The
furniture was revalued as at March 31 this year,
and the management took the very proper course of
writing down the book value, making the accounts
square by writing a corresponding amount off the
Replacement Fund. Apparently this left a balance
of £ 2400 to the credit of the fund ; and that amount
was no doubt transferred to the formal reserve fund,
thus wiping out the Replacement Fund altogether.
The reserves are now made up as follows: —Mortgage
Reduction Fund, £11,500 ; Assets Contingency
Fund, £10,613; Reserve Fund, £5432; unappro-
priated profit, £3824. The year, then, shows a
profit of £5597 ; but from that something must be
written off for current wear and tear —say, the £1344
which has been appropriated to the Replacement
Fund, as previously mentioned. Like most Mel-
bourne hotel and coffee palace cos., this one carried
a large plaster; 10 years ago the mortgage was
£65,000. The job of shifting it has been very slow ;
so, though £2BlO more capital has been got in, the
debt still amounts to £56,000. The position has
changed in 10 years as follows:
1901. 1911.
Liabilities .. .. £70,360 £57,890
Assets (other than premises and furni-
ture) .. .. .. . v .. 4,168 5,488
Deficiency .. ..£66,192 £52,402
That is a reduction of £13,790, of which £10,980
has been from surplus profit and £2BlO from calls;
and meantime some small additions and improve-
ments have been made. The profit for the past year
is much better than the average for recent years,
this being the sort of season when uncle does the
thing properly on his visit to town.
* * * *
The Hobart Gas Co. (Tasmania)
Writ- To
Dividends and ten Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves.
Dec., ’03.. £5132 £B/17/9 p.c. =£4620 £512 £6,267
June,'o4.. 5032 8/17/9 ~ „ 4620 412 6,679
Dec., ’04.. 5192 8/17/9 „ „ 4620 572 7,251
June,’os.. 5075 8/17/9 ~ „ 4620 455 7,706
Dec., ’05.. 5138 8/17/9 ~ „ 4620 518 8,224
June,’o6.. 583 8/17/9 ~ „ 4620 - 463 8,687
Dec., ’06.. 5242 8/17/9 „ ~ 4620 622 9,309
June, ’07.. 5238 8/17/9 „ ~ 4620 618 9,927
Dec., ’07.. 5003, 8/17/9 ~ „ 4620£3000 5,210
June, 08.. 5432 8/17/9 „ „ 4620 812 9,022
Dec., ’OB.. 5690 8/17/9 „ ~ 4620 - 1070 10,092
June,’o9.. 5633 8/17/9 „ ~ 4620 1250 -- 9,855
Dec., ’09.. 6211 8/17/9 ~ ~ 4675 500 1036 10,891
June,’lo.. 4571 8/17/9 ~ ~ 4675 10,787
Dec., TO.. 6688 8/17/9 ~ ~ 4620 500 1568 12,355
Besides the gas business this co. does a little electric
lighting; but it writes so much off for repairs, re-
newals and depreciation of plant that the electric
light department never shows more than a few
pounds of profit. Curiously, though so much is
written off in this department, the sum invested in
the fixed assets (plant, etc.) never diminishes. Ap-
parently the co. is building up a plant more or less
out of revenue. No doubt the co.’s policy has been
to show that electric lighting isn’t worth bothering
about in Hobart. However, if the scheme for har-
nessing up the Great Lake comes off—and Parlia-
ment has passed the Bill, and J. Bull is to be asked
to join various Hobart people in putting up the
money-—the Gas Co. may have to worry a lot. On
the plans, estimates, etc., prepared, Hobart can be
supplied with electric light and power at a remark-
ably low rate; and the time may come when the
Hobart Gas Co. will find itself in very much the
same sad position as the Launceston Co., which also
had the misfortune to be bumped by cheaply-produced
electricity.
Albury Gas Co. (Albury, N.S.W.):—
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Dec., 1903 .. £459 10 p.c. = £375 £B4 £826
June, 1904 .. 471 10 „ „ 375 96 922
Dec., 1904 .. 524 10 „ „ 375 149 1071
June, 1905 .. 418 10 ~ ~ 375 43 1114
Dec., 1905 .. 554 10 ~ ~ 375 179 1293
June, 1906 .. 516 10 ~ ~ 375 141 1434
Dec., 1906 .. 508 10 ~ ~ 375 133 1567
June, 1907 .. 488 10 ~ ~ 375 113 1680
Dec., 1907 .. 543 10 ~ ~ 375 168 1848
June, 1908 .. 673 10 ~ ~ 375 298 2146
Dec., 1908 .. 613 10 ~ ~ 375 238 2384
June, 1909 .. 672 10 „ ~ 375 297 2681
Dec., 1909 .. 731 10 ~ „ 375 356 3037
June, 1910 .. 779 10 ~ ~ 375 404 3441
Dec., 1910 .. 719 10 „ „ 375 344 3785
Profits apparently are gross, without deduction for
wear and tear; and almost all the reserves belong to
a fund for repairs and renewals. Therefore the posi-
tion is not as good as it looks in the table. Still it
isn’t by any means bad, and has moreover improved
this way:—
Dec., 1903. Dec., 1910.
Liquid assets .. £B7O £3398
Liabilities .. 5116 5064
Deficit .. £4246 £1666
Thus in seven years the co., besides paying the div.,
has paid for all repairs and renewals and extensions,
and has also wiped out £2580 of debt—a very good
record for a co. of this size, presuming that repairs
and renewals haven’t been shamefully neglected.
Taranaki (M.L.) is quite sure that it is
going to see a big J. Bull co. formed to buy its Petro-
leum Co.’s property. J. D. Henry has put up £2OOO,
and that settles it. Henry certainly has considerable
influence in London, and there’s been a pot of money
made lately in oil-specs, in Asia Minor and there-
abouts, so the chances are that the co. will be floated.
The price to be paid is a minimum of £50,000 cash
(more is to be paid in certain events), and £50,000
in shares in a co. with not more than £400,000
capital.
J. D. Henry, by-the-way, inspected the Common-
wealth Oil Corporation’s property while he was in
Australia, on his way back from Maoriland, but his
opinions on that bloated enterprise don’t appear to
have been made public. The corporation’s annual
meeting is overdue. Apparently, the London manage-
ment is holding it off until it can have word of the
starting of the new oil-making retorts. Then, no
doubt, there will be fireworks, in the midst of which


The Pacific Cable Board
(Of which the Commonwealth of Australia is
the largest part owner).
The direct route to UNITED KINGDOM, CANADA,
U S.A., GERMANY, PACIFIC ISLANDS and
NEW ZEALAND.
RATES: —U.K., 3/-; Canada and U.S.A.,
from 2/4; GERMANY, 3/-: FIJI, Bd. per word.
‘•VIA PACIFIC” (Signalled free of charge).
' ISydney the Board has its own offices
at 40 Huntkr Strkkt, for dealing direct with the
Public for all INTERNATIONAL Cablegrams;
with special wire to Cable Terminus at Southport.
At this office all Standard Code-Books may be
consulted. At all other places in Commonwealth,
messages marked “ VIA PACIFIC ” are accepted
at Post and Telegraph office. New Zealand cable-
grams. 4id. per word, “ VIA PACIFIC,” accepted
at all Telegraph Offices.
Cablegram Forms, Maps, Pamphlets, and all
information on application to :
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
40 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Imperial Buildings, 408 Collins Street,
Melbourne; or Southport, Queensland.
Every engineer in charge of factories and mills
should give close attention to the power wasted in
transmission of power. The Hyatt Flexible Roller
Bearings save 20 per cent, power and 75 per cent,
of oil, so one of the first duties is naturally for
engineers to direct their special attention to these
bearings and to car boxes for trucks. Hyatts are
in continuous use in Cement Works, Ore Dressing
Mills, Factories, etc., in Australia. Bushings o\
flexible rollers may be applied to loose pulleys or
truck wheels, etc. Should engineers require further
details, they can apply to the Australian Agents,
W. & J. Lempriere, Melbourne; or E. W. Hurst-
house and Co., of Wellington, the agents in New
Zealand.*
“FERRODOR” Paint. —Specially manufactured fo‘
preserving galvanised iron and steel. Unaffected by
sea air, sulphur fumes, cyanogen gases. Used oil
Princes and Victoria Bridges, P. and O. and N.D.L.
steamers, etc. Covers 1000 sq. yds. per cwt. WM.
ADAMS & CO., LTD., 175 Clarence Street, Sydney.*
Steam Users are invited to send for illustrated
catalogue of Engineering Specialities manufactured
by Bell’s United Asbestos Co., Ltd. Every descrip-
tion of asbestos goods, patent “Belfry” steam valves
and asbestos packed cocks and water gauges are
stocked at the depots of Bell’s Asbestos Austra-
lian Agency, Ltd., 315 Kent Street, Sydney, and
Beach Street, Fremantle; also at Victorian Agency,
W. H. Lamond & Co., 328 Flinders Street, Mel-
bourne. *
Professor Richards, in the revised edition of his
celebrated edition of “Ore Dressing,” 1909, devotes
11 pages to the Wilfley concentrating table, and,
among other things remarks (p. 1465) : “The first
table sold was installed in the Puzzle Mill, at Breck-
enridge, Colorado. Since then over 12,000 have been
sold. This machine has revolutionised ore-dressing,
and as such is a phenomenal success. The original
form, and forerunner of all modern shaking tables
with longitudinal riffles . . has been greatly improv-
ed.” And further on (p. 1478) remarks: “One feature
of the Wilfley table to which especial attention should
be called is its ability to separate sands from slimes
while making the ordinary concentration. This sep-
aration is more complete and thorough than can be
made by any classifier, and should be taken advant-
age of in designing mills.” In the extensive addi-
tions just made to the Golden Horseshoe Mine (W.A.)
a large number of Wilfley Concentrators have been
installed. The Austral Otis Engineering Company,
Limited, South Melbourne, have the sole manufac-
turing rights.* [1
FOR SALE Cheap, Second-Hand, 15 Break H.P.
Tangye Gas Engine, in good order. Apply Manager,
Bulletin Office, 214 George Street, Sydney.*
* * * *
Extract from the Finance Chronicle, London
(1/9/1910). —“The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance
Society: Its moderate premium rates and its prompt-
ness and liberality in the settlement of its claims
have gained for it a favorable and firm footing
throughout the Kingdom. The annual accounts of
the Society have all along shown a steady onward
tendency, and of more recent years a marked activ-
ity; by the extensions of the benefits granted to its
assurers, the introduction of Accident assurance, and
a carefully adapted scheme, combining Accident and
Invalidity assurance with Life Assurance under one
policy.”*
WOOD PIPE is easy to lay and cheap to transport,
it is also cheap to buy, and is practically everlast-
ing. The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd.', Balmain,
Sydney, will send catalogue on application.*
Mine Managers and Engineers. —Send vour orders
for miners’ drill steel, octagon, hexagon and cruci-
form, solid or hollow; manganese and chrome steel
castings and forgings; all tool steels and engineers’
tools, pneumatic tools, machine tools, saw blades
and frames, etc., to Bohler Bros. & Co., Ltd., 1
Angel Place, Sydney, and at Melbourne.*
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so, write
to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address, 163 King Street, Sydney ;
and 9 Queen Street, Melbourne.* [2
TUCKETT & STYLES, Machinery Auctioneers,
Agents and Valuers, Tuckett Chambers, 359 Collins
Street, Melb. (J. W. Styles, 20 years Expert Sales-
man.)*
F. DANVERS POWER, mining engineer, is pre-
pared to purchase approved MINING properties. Ad-
dress: National Mutual Chambers, Pitt and Bond
Streets, Sydney.*
Nobel’s Explosives are the best and most re-
liable. We are agents for the original makers,
Hamburg. Large stocks on hand. Contracts at low
rates. WM. ADAMS & CO., LTD., 175 Clarence
Street, Sydney.*
The Bolinder Oil Engine, which is Known as the
simplest and most easily managed of all oil engines,
is now represented throughout Australia by Babcock
and Wilcox Ltd., Hay market, Sydney. The advant-
ages of the Bolinder are small consumption of oil,
ease of starting, no complicated arrangement of
valves, and autc matic lubrication, and these are testi-
fied to by Australian users. The engine is made by
a firm who have manufactured oil engines for 25
years, and comes from a factory with an output of
1500 engines per annum.* [1
One of the oldest and best-known engineering con-
cerns in the Commonwealth has been converted into
a proprietary company, with a capital of £150,000,
and will now trade as Mephan Ferguson Proprietarjq
Limited, the governing directors being Mephan Fer-
guson and Robert Shand. The head office and works
are at Gordon Street, Footscray, Victoria.*
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign Patents obtained.
Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Melbourne, and
Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write us for In-
ventors’ Guide.*
* * # »
Assayers, Mine Managers, and Prospectors
write to H. B. Silbeiiberg and Co., 443 Bourke
Street, Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining
requisites and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc
pulverisers to 200 mesh; hand sample grinders to
120 mesh; Ainsworth’s assay balances sensitive to
1/13000 grain; prospector’s balances to 1/1000
grain ; weight; pocket transits ; gasoline combination
furnaces ; Morgan’s crucibles ; chemicals; etc.*
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
ths management will probably be heard asking tot
it is 8 fun time that the shareholders
and debenture-holders insisted upon an independent
inquirv into the use that has been made of the capi
tal already eaten. If that isn t done, the Common
wealth Government will have to consider whether it
shouldn’t take a hand. It has put on a Pjetty heavy
dutv in the interests of this one co.—there is none
other producing oil in the C° mm on wealth, and non
other in sight—and the Government has, therefore,
right to inquire whether the practically -subsidis
co. is working on lines which give it any chance ot
success. + ~
Heartrending particulars of Golden Horse-
shoe’s backsliding, as set out in the last three
annual reports:—
1908. 1909. 1910.
Ore reserves, tons 1,065,409 1,071,638 803,151
Gold conlents, oz. .. 633,577 693,924
Gross value of reserves .. 2,690,000 2,500,000
Revenue £618,340 £606,741 £415,598
Expenditure 374,813 363,871 340,3|i4
Profit 243,517 242,870 75,294
Amount debited for de-
velopment, machinery
plant,, etc. .. ... 61,374 42,942 16,933
Amount credited for de-
velopment Nil Nil 33,000
Amount added for plant
expenditure Nil 22,000 <0,600
The drop of over a million sterling in the value of
estimated ore reserves since the end of 1908 is bad
enough, but this tremendous shrinkage may be a
mere circumstance compared with the dismal fact
that it is only by making no allowance whatever
for depreciation, by placing all new plant to credit
as an asset, and by putting two-thirds of the amount
expended on development into the balance-sheet as
an asset, that the co. is able to show a surplus of
£75,294 for 1910. That amount is only £394
more than the dividend which the Board unwisely
paid in April, 1910. The cash position also shows
how the co. has gone from bad to worse during the
year just ended. It started with £55,959, and
raised £lOO,OOO on debentures; total, £155,959.
Wiping off the whole of the £70,500 now figuring
as an asset for plant, there is a balance of £85,459 ;
yet the co. winds up with only £29,202 in cash,
and on the other side there are liabilities as fol-
lows: Sundry creditors, £37,526 ; unclaimed divi-
dends, £.1783; and the aforesaid debentures,
£lOO,OOO. Only a few words are said in the direc-
tors’ statement about the exhaustive critical report
on the property by the French expert Ivuss, and no
mention is made of the promised reply by the
general-manager. Moreover, the directors add no-
thing by way of confirmation or otherwise to the re-
mark in their January circular that the latest news
from the mine enabled them to “indulge a confident
hope that such a satisfactory monthly output will
soon be reached as will lead up to an early return
to a dividend-paying position.” Altogether, in fact,
there is a pronounced air of “like it or lump it”
about the whole business; and that gives room for a
suspicion that the real position is stiß being withheld
from shareholders.
North Ivalgurli (W.A.) has abandoned its
option at Bullfinch. A fair quantity of gold is
still being won from the co.’s Kalgoorlie property,
the tributors’ output for the six months ended March
31 aggregating 54060 z., on which the co. pocketed
£3724 royalty.
* * -* *
Oroya Exploration and Oroya-Black
Range (W.A.) have put their heads together and de-
cided to form a separate concern to acquire their
jointly-owned Youanme leases. The new co. will be
known as the Yuanmi Gold Mines, Ltd., and will
have an authorised capital of £350,000 in shares of
£1 each, of which 280,000 shares, credited with
18s. 6d. paid, will be exchanged for the property, and
70,000 shares will be reserved for working capital.
It is intended to erect a 20-head mill now and double
the plant later on. *
Word comes from London that the Wes-
tralia United Goldfields flotation got ice from the
London public. Subscriptions were invited at par
for 700,000 • participating preference shares of 10s.,
but from what The Bulletin can learn the number
of shares applied for was so small that the applica-
tion money may about balance the advertising bill.
Now that the attempt to sell the properties to J.
Bull has failed, they will probably be abandoned, as
no one else is likely to bother about them.
* M * *
Ida 11. (W.A.) has made a change in
mine management, and in view of what the direc-
tors have been told about the value of the ore at
depth, and the necessity for doing certain work in
order to reduce working costs, the co. has decided to
raise £20,000 by the issue of an additional 80,000
ss. shares. The Board has already provisionally
accepted an offer for 20,000 of these shares at Bs.
per share, and shareholders are to have the right of
applying for the remaining 60,000 at the same price.
Should the total number be taken up, £32,000 ad-
ditional capital will be provided, making the total
issued capital £BO,OOO.
Lancefield (W.A.) is said to have issued
a circular in London postponing the shareholders’
meeting until the co. has had time to look around and
find some fresh excuse for its inability to earn pro-
fits. The reorganised plant is now able to treat
10,000 tons monthly, but for various reasons the
mine is behindhand with development, and is not in
a position to keep the mill properly fed. Under the
most favorable conditions the ore is only likely to
yield a small profit per ton, and towards this goal
the co. has been struggling for years. So far, how-
ever, for every step it has taken forward it has slid
two steps or thereabouts backward.
Gwalia South and Golden Pole (W.A.),
which practically belong to the same people, made
two attempts lately to hold half-yearly meetings;
but as nobody except the directors and a few friends
entered an appearance, the gatherings were first ad-
journed and then lapsed.
Accounts from Dunn’s Find (W.A.) are
glum. Elated at the gaudy reports which came to
hand about the gold in sight, one of the directors
went over to the West and engaged an expert en
route. What he discovered led him to upend the
title, and re-name it “Find’s Done.”
* * * *
There are a few big low-grade shows
south of Southern Cross and out to Parker’s Range
(W.A.). The biggest so far is the Great Victoria,
not far south of Marvel Loch and Jaccoletti. Its
lode is of banded iron and laminated quartz, and
is said to be over 100 ft. wide. A number of shafts
are down, and in one crosscut at 50ft., there is
107 ft. of ore showing without a wall, and in another
90ft. of ore. From 1056 tons crushed prior to 1908,
mill recoveries were 2200 z. fine gold, or 4-4dwt. per
ton from the plates. The present owners have got
out 2000 tons, which gave 355. a ton. Oxidised ore
will probably persist to 300 ft.; one shaft that is
down 265 ft. is in ore from top to bottom. The
Great Victoria has a 10-head mill to go on with.
A Water supply for a much bigger tonnage can be
got without great difficulty, and, if it wants any-
thing, the Great Victoria wants stamps by the score.
Present rate of working looks like two ants trying to
tunnel a cannon-ball.
Over in the West the big mining cos. are
reciting how they beat the favorite —in this case the
State Taxation Department—for £40,000 dividend
duty. The dispute arose in this way: In declaring
dividends the cos. distributed the full amount of the
dividend, and paid the 5 p.c. tax to the State out of
other funds. The Taxation Department allowed this
to go on for years, then suddenly billed the cos. for
the sum mentioned. Its contention was that if a
dividend amounted to £20,000, the co. was entitled
to only pay £19,000 to the shareholders, the State
getting the other £lOOO, whereas the co. has habit-
ually paid the £19,000, and handed the State only
5 p.c. of that = £ 950. The claim was for the other
£5O, multiplied, of course, many times. The Golden
Horseshoe was put forward to fight a test case, and
the action was heard before Justice Burnside, who
gave judgment for the State. The Horseshoe then
appealed to the Full Court, which backed up the de-
cision of the Court below. The case was then taken
to the Privy Council, which turned the lower Courts
down, and found for the Horseshoe.
From Randolph Bedford: Recent Bul-
letin remarks, apropos some self-defence of Mr. G.
Williams, that I was “defending my attitude in the
Bullfinch-Chaffinch business.” I was not defending
myself; I have never been put on my defence; in
the Bullfinch matter I was attacking Williams. The
Bullfinch will prove itself the mine I said it was.
As for the Chaffinch, well, the W.A. Government initi-
ated a prosecution which established its own justifica-
tion by proving that the Chaffinch find was genuine;
and all the whitewashing, and all the bluff of asking
the W.A. Government for compensation, won’t alter
the fact that the prosecution established these things
—-the concealment for three weeks of 52 bags of
ore worth 6oz. to the ton, and five bags worth 20oz.
to the ton, all of which came from the trench al-
leged to have been salted ; the opening of the tele-
graph office by certain of the defendants at three in
the morning, and their forward cancellation of a
telegram which could not be handed in till the office
opened four hours later ; the sending of the wire in-
structing the “bear” sale of 10,000 “before lunch,”
with the statement that the official report would not
be despatched till late in the afternoon; and the
finding of the manager bloodless and collapsed after
he had been “lost” in the bush for 24 hours. One
defendant, I am told, has left Australia; it would
be more decent if the others dropped the bluff of
asking for compensation. As to Mr. Williams, he
may be the kind of altruist who is so busy protect-
ing the public that he usually misses lunch and has
only time for a cheese sandwich and a small candy ;
but he can make mistakes like other people. He put
a lot of Melbourne people into a N.S.W. tin show in
200 shares of £25. The stock went to £6O, and
then it was discovered that the “gem stones could
not be separated from the tin,” and now the co. is
down and out. and the first and final dividend is
about 30 bob a share.
* * * *
William Orr, one-time a business man at
Shepparton, then a big promoter at Broken Hill,
later still a leader in the Mt. Lyell float, later still
a copper pioneer in N. Queensland, starts a new
lead. He wants the Chamber of Mines of Victoria
to call on the Murray-Watt Ministry to father steel
and iron works. Orr’s argument is that, as the
Government has established a profitable coal mine
at Wonthaggi, thus saving the State from the private
coal barons, it should now free Victoria from the
exactions of Steel Trust kings, who dump their goods
here. Orr is right, of course. The States build
railways, locomotives, carriages and trucks, which
eat up vast quantities of iron and steel yearly. So
if it is proving good business for the State to mine
its own coal for its own railways, it is likewise good
biz to use the coal for iron and steel making for
public works and railway purposes. Orr, however,
had no hope of getting the council of the Chamber
of Mines to admit it.
Once Mariners Reef, near Maryborough
(Vic.), was a mine. Next it became an eater of
calls. Since the shoot of gold cut out, co. after co.
has played the game of hunt the slipper. Local
talent is now trying its trained hand. If big talk
means anything, divs. ought to be soon pouring out
like slag from a furnace. The stone was giving
only a sniff of gold, but just when that leaked out
the effect was balanced by the news that rich speci-
mens had been fired down. After that there Was
cross-firing between a Maryborough broker and some
of the directors. A charge was made that the direc-
tors trafficked in scrip. To that they owned up so
manfully that the Stinking Fish crowd had the
chagrin of seeing shareholders bestow a blessing on
those who had bought and sold, whether wisely or
foolishly. Still, to the outsider the disclosure points
a moral.
Eaglehawk Consolidated, Maldon (Vic.),
w r ent into the melting pot some 15 months back as
part of a scheme to get cash to sink to test the reefs
at depth. Before that it had paid an occasional 3d.,
but beyond that it never did more than flatter share-
holders with a pleasing tale. In 13 months it suc-
ceeded in turning out gold worth £4363, just about
enough to pay for grease. Now stone has been got
at 1550 ft. ; but the directors don’t go farther than
to hope that further prospecting will disclose good
values. Only British shareholders would be con-
tent with a vague remark like that. To go on with,
the co. is drawing 6dwt. dirt from above the 650 ft.,
and there is a nice looking shoot at 850 ft., which
assays 12dwt. —a value which should pay well at
Maldon.
The invulnerable Tassy O’Connor turns
up again, this time with a request to Melbourne to
put up a few modest hundreds to further prospect
some East Gippsland claims at the head of the Com-
bienbar River. A very favorable report on the new
district has been made by Mines Inspector Hawke,
who thinks “there is a good chance of establishing
a payable field here.” O’Connor says the reef or
ore channel is from 3ft. to 4ft. wide, and he hasn’t
been able to get a sample without gold in it. The
average, he reckons, at 7dwt. to lOdwt. The field is
remote, and the tracks wild; but tunnelling should
make mining costs low.
» * « »
Einasleigk (Q.) has its mill ready, and by
this time it should be at work on the big body of
stuff which is too low-grade to stand freight charges
to the Chillagoe furnaces. On appearances it is
going to call for a good deal of nursing, and the
man who expects least from it will probably be
least disappointed.
* * * *
South Glanmire and Monkland (Gympie)
slumped heavily in front of a 3d. dividend. The
monthly clean-up resulted in 531)0z. gold from 700
tons stone. This includes 740 z. gold from the plates.
The result of prospecting for the Power reef has been
disappointing. Some small leaders are being driven
on in favorable country, and the manager thinks
that these leaders coincide with the Power reef. For-
tunately, the co. also has the Inglewood reef, but it
is not large at present, and it is likely that weekly
amalgam returns will vary a good deal.
At Charters Towers Kelly’s Queen Blocks
have had a large turnover. The last crushing was only
40 tons, but it gave an average of £7 13s. sd. The
crosscut at the 657 ft. level, aiming at the St. Pat-
rick reef, is in the distance where a development
may be expected; further ahead is the St. George
reef, which is being prospected by tributors in the
claim next door (the Brilliant and St. George). The
co. has had a long run of calls, and the market got
so very sick that a large number of shares were for-
feited. But the Towers remembers now that this is
a show that in bygone times has repeatedly made a
quick recovery.
* * * *
The £5OOO deposit put up three years ago
by the Queensland Silver Lead Mines, Ltd., in con-
nection with the construction of the Burketown-
Lilydale (N.Q.) tramway, has been forfeited on ac-
count of the failure of the co. to go on with the
work. The mineral leases have also been forfeited.
Remarkable results are being got at the
Fitzroy (Q.) flotation plant by using eucalyptus oil
in place of the crude mineral oil hitherto applied to
the process.
*** . *
This scribe hurries in to say he was
wrong in putting Kalumadau’s costs at 375. The
half-year’s revenue was £11,788 from 4509 tons,
which returned a profit of £4353. This shows—
average extraction, £2 12s. 3d.; profit, _ a shade
under £1; total expenses, 335. per ton. Since then,
however, output has increased and costs have been
brought down.
The wire sent south about the revised
Blair Athol (Q.) option didn’t state the position
correctly. The original option mentioned £ 165,000
as the purchase price, payable £65,000 in cash and
the balance in paid shares. The new resolution runs
this way: “To accept, in addition to £65,000 cash,
a further sum of £85,000 in lieu of paid shares.”
A forecast of the Briseis (Tas.) accounts
for 1910 is out in Melbourne, where a hungry crowd
deplores the heavy capitalisation and the wasted
condition of the old Briseis mine. It is said that
trading profits for the 12 months were £32,125,
and that £18,450 undivided profits go into this
year’s current account. Not at all bad. The
co.’s luck has been exceptional, for when yields be-
gan to dwindle, up soared the price of tin to almost
record heights. The London Board keeps the reserve
firmly at £50,000, working the divs. on the margin
allowed by the cash assets. These look fairly
well. In 1908 thev were £39,681, in 1909
£51,489, and now £25,135. Seeing that the co.
has paid up additional funds on the Wallace leases in
Victoria, and is also doing big dead work, the year
has jangled out better than was expected—save with
regard to the Wallace leases. Four months’ work
to the end of April last only brought in £l3OO
profits from the Wallace dredges, which cuts up
about |d. per share on the 600,000 shares with
which little Langford and the London Board endowed
the co. at its birth.
Langford and Northey’s defunct Tas-
manian dredging area, the Weldbroolc, is being re-
suscitated as the Rio Grande by a Launceston syn-
dicate. “Tiger” Wilson is in charge. The thing
may succeed, no doubt; but in view of previous
failure, the public should ask for some very good
reasons for thinking well of it, and for backing the
opinion with its money.
Tasman and Crown Lyell (Tas.) has
bought the old Colonel North milling plant to con-
centrate its silver-lead ore. The chairman talks op-
timistically about getting the plant in going order
by October. The shoot of ore has yet to be proved
as a concentrating proposition, though low costs
should be a great help.
* * * *
Seems that Metallurgist Weinberg pins
his faith to a process for extracting zinc from fur-
nace slugs. The tentative proposal is to amalgamate
the Hercules and Primrose with the Tasmanian
Smelting Co. Ore has been treated at these works,
but the zinc has been slagged off, the object being to
make good recoveries of lead, gold and silver. In
Germany zinc oxide has long been produced from
slags that run fairly high in zinc; but it has been
supposed that the process was applicable only where
fuel is cheap.
* * * *
Tongkah has produced 378 tons 12cwt. of
tin concentrates in five months. The 121) tons for
May is the best this year. Five dredges worked
2414 hours, so the yield is 112.741 b. per hour.
Taking the average selling price at £lOO-—which is
a bit risky in the absence of assays—the total yield
was worth £12,150. Practically, the five dredges
recover £1 per dredge per hour. It is obvious that
under those conditions, good as they appear, money
can’t be wasted. There are 150,000 shares, so each
of the five dredges has to provide a profit for 30,000.
That is why Tongkah requires a fleet of dredges to
pay fair dividends, and a fleet eats up a deal of
money. An optimist may reckon that £12,150 from
tin oxide is as good as 3000 oz. of gold, and that each
dredge, in earning £2430 per month, obtained the
monthly equivalent of 600 oz. of gold. But having
done that much, let the optimist consider the specu-
lative nature of the tin market.
T.H. J.; Mines Department says the quan-
tity is very miaute.
“Skeeter”: After a long and chequered
career, extending over 40 years, the Lyndhurst Rail-
way Gold Mining Co., Junction Reefs (N.S.W.),
owned by J. Bull, has apparently thrown up the
sponge. ” The co. recently applied for six months’
suspension, but the warden made rude remarks, and
wound up by allowing three. Suspension expires on
June 8, but the co. has evidently arrived at the con-
clusion that it is played out, for it has handed the
show over to a locai tributing party. During the
mine’s life it has had about 20 managers, who re-
ported 20 methods of treatment. In addition to the
managers, it has been visited and overhauled by
innumerable experts. W. Burns, now at Reefton
(M.L.), broke the record with a reign of seven years.
Said here the other day that the Y-Water
Tin Co. (N.S.W.) had a capital of £90,000 in
60,000 shares of 30s. Nominally the capital is
£90,000 in 60,000 shares; but only 52,000 were
issued, and 12,000 of them were forfeited in the
days when people didn’t know what was coming.
The paid capital is thus at present £60,000 in
40,000 shares.
* * *
An attempt is to be made to turn the
swarms of game on the coast of the Northern Ter-
ritory to profitable account by preserving and canning
them; and turtle, fish, eggs, etc., are to be included
in the bill of fare. A representative of the scheme
has sailed for the sophisticated south, where they
possess the necessary cash without the necessary
game; and if he can get some of the cash so much
the better. The more industries at the back door the
better for the front one.
* * * *
A manager who was in charge of a big
mine about 100 miles from Melbourne was sum-
moned to appear before the directors to explain how
he contrived to amass so much property on the salary
he was getting. The interview ran this way: Chair-
man : “Well, Mr. Blank, we have asked you to attend
here and enlighten us on certain matters. We hear
that you have been buying some hotel properties, and
that you have built a terrace of houses, that you also
have built a grand place near the mine, and bought
a piano, a carriage and horses and other things, and
we think you cannot do all these things out of your
salary.” Mr. Blank: “Now, Mr. Chairman, you do
know that a man can save a deal out of eight pounds
a week if he is careful.” Chairman: “Yes, we know;
still this appears a little over the odds. Anyhow”^—
after a pause—-“we have decided to dispense with your
services.” Mr. Blank: “Well, I think, Mr. Chairman,
thee’re very foolish. I ’spect thee’ll be puttin’ an-
other man in my place.” Chairman: “Certainly, we
intend to appoint another man.” Mr. Blank: “Well,
doan’t ’ee see, gentlemen, if thee appoint another
man in my place, he’ll have all they things to get.
I’ve got ’em!”
* * *
N. S. Wales will soon rub off its slate the
registration of the Moorlort Goldfields (1906), and
the Victorian Deep Leads. (1906). Though domi-
ciled in Sydney, the home of these busted shows
was near Carisbrook (Vic.). They blossomed first
under Kozminslcy and “Billy” Robinson, Hercules
Robinson’s Governor-brother. Then they fell into
the liquidator’s net, to be resuscitated by 8., M. and
Co. These got the water out of the Berry lead,
but failed at the gold. Then Algernon Moreing
popped a few pounds of the co.’s cash, saved from
the sluice boxes, into the Maikop oil region. The
oil boom duly appeared, and cheap shares got a
market. Now the two one-time half-dead leadites
have each £30,000. This is to be lumped, and a
modest little thing in 2,500,000 shares, called the
Maikop Orient Oil Co., is to swallow them up, and
use the cash and anything the shareholders may put
up to bore for oil-claims got from one of the Lon-
don promoting cos. There are the usual big ads. in
the London papers, and the directors avow the new
co. will turn out a gusher. If it does, N.S.W. won’t
have the pleasure of collecting income tax, as the
domicile is to be in 8., M. and Co.’s London palace.


Charles Heidsieck
REIMS
EXTRA DRV
I .
FINEST EXTRA 0?
“Cbe Sacred Oils”
Absolutely the only remedy guaranteed to remove
lines and wrinkles, cure faded complexions, and tone
up relaxed facial muscles. This secret compound
has been handed down from generation to generation,
until it has become the sole property of the Nuns of
Yalda.jov, Servia.
‘‘The Sacred Oils” possess a remarkable power in
removing those signs of age which most women
dread. No woman need have lines, crowsfeet, or
loose, baggy skin now that “The Sacred Oils’” is
obtainable in Australia. Write to Westall Guest,
Toilet Specialist, 38 Chapel Street, Windsor, Vic"
Advice and pamphlets free. Price, ss. bottle; post’
S ' Sydney Agents —
MISS CUTHBERT, Otis Chambers, 82 King Street
MRS. SHEARER, 54 Strand Arcade. ■
Wholesale Agents—ELLIOTT BROS
R©B»R
At home most people only take
tea with their meals, but in a tea-
room they come just especially
for the tea and a gossip—that’s
why, if 1 were running tea-rooms
of my own, I’d give them tea
they’d talk about.
I think the best advertisement
is to get a name for good tea.
At one place 1 used to be in
they gave the people “ Special ”
Grade Robur, and we had to
make a fresh pot for each
customer, and l do assure you
without exaggeration men whose
business places were whole
blocks away used to come to
our room for their afternoon cup,
and women wou!d crowd in
until there wouldn’t be a seat
vacant. Still, it’s my opinion the
No. 1 Grade, made fresh every
time, is quite good enough for
anybody, and people who would
grumble at it would grumble at
anything. 1 should say for family
use it would be just the thing
—it’s awfully saying, you know.
The Waitress.
QUALITY—BUCHANAN WHISKY
“BLACK & WHITE.”
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, June 5, 1911.
My Dear Arini, —
George V. made more fuss about his 46th
birthday than most people who see half a
century within coo-ee. Sydney took a holi-
day, and spread itself across a Rand wick
race meeting, a Centennial Dark display of
war wardrobes, and other birthday crackers.
The Review has always been embedded in
the public mind as a gilt-edged affair that
goes off with a bang at noon. The mere
woman has been wont to spruce up for the
big dress rehearsal at 12 o’clock, snatch her
habitual snack at 1 p.m., and turn up
smiling at afternoon sports. That’s her
idea of a holiday. This year the military
show in the Park, at which Lieut.-Gov-
ernor Cullen made a first appearance as
chief War-lord, fell socially as flat as a half-
cooked pancake.
The kilt is _ not extinct. Large plaid
skirts, with boiled lobster jackets, mounted
—rather uneasily—on horseback, jolted
through suburban streets after the march
past Lieut.-Gov. Cullen’s cocked hat.
A few weeks ago an unreliable rumor hit
my letter in its latter end. It swore
that Lady Dudley was booked to leave
immediately for Maoriland by the Ma-
heno. I tracked the foster-parent of
that rumor to his roll-top desk. He
was penitent but firm. He vows he ac-
tually saw Pier Ex.’s name on the passenger
list, though it was afterwards cancelled.
Anyway, Lady Dudley stayed at home, to
come within ten seconds of being killed in a
motor smash.
The Alliance Francaise produced its
best Parisian accent at St. James’s Plall one
chilly night last week. The Admirable
King-Plalls, who are going to tweak the ear
of Culture in this city till it answers back in
several languages, were present. Dr. Thi-
bault, an accomplished Frenchman, served
up Racine’s “Britannicus” (published, by
the way, in 1669) to an audience of chiffons
which was working hard to have its mind
improved. Nero and Agrippina, revolving
round the Racine manner, were adminis-
tered in homoeopathic doses by the learned
lecturer. “Britannicus” is rather a tricky
play to ease off on unsuspecting Australian
Society. “It is,” said one solid-weight
critic, “the piece in which persons of a dilet-
tante turn are seduced by the beauties
which do exist, to discover those that do
not.” Darling Point is now suffering from a
Racine recovery.
Governor Islington, of Maoriland, is hav-
ing an uneasy time in the matter of his gen-
tleman-helps. “Late A.D.C.” is getting in-
to print fairly often. Captain Crichton
Maitland, now in England, wears a “late
A.D.C.” tail. Mr. Kerr-Clark gave notice
before he had time to know much about the
Islington situation. And there are others.
Is it “the Missus,” or the uncertain geyser
service (Waimangu being on strike), or the
shortage of domestic help, that is so hard to
get along with?
The passing of the Macquarie-street Gov-
ernment House into a public museum and
storehouse for books is in the air. A Gov-
ernor-General with a roving commission
may be fishing off a northern reef, opening
a bazaar in Adelaide, signing his name in
Melbourne, or mopping his perspiring brow
in Brisbane. So the handsome old house in
Macquarie-street is generally tenanted by
housemaids’ brooms.
In the picturesque days when tne travel-
ling carriage, the footpad, and the lash
evolved a triangle of mixed results, Governor
Gipps made the first big splash in the Farm
Cove Camp. He gave a ball on May 24,
1843, in torrents of ram, in the then'half-
completed Governor’s nest, and Svuney So-
ciety had some cause to remember it. The
porch and archway wasn’t then even pigeon-
holed on paper, and the occasional hired
vehicle, with the carriages of the Moneyoc-
racy, floundered into red clay. Next morn-
ing dozens of boots and shoes were dug out
of the mud in front of Gov. House, and left
“to be called for.” The agitated owners
may have remembered a couplet that was
current in those days :
If you give him an orange, he’ll hand you the pips;
They’ll grow if you plant ’em,” says Governor
Gipps.
The R.A.A. has just cut another tooth.
In time of peace it is going to spread a
peacock’s tail as the Royal Australian Gar-
rison Artillery. When war’s alarms shake
up this pastoral patch, the R.A.G.A. is likely
to be melted down into plain Gunner with a
tough job.
,A military ball in aid of the Norland In-
stitute is now preparing its blare of trum-
pets for June 28. The Town Hall will be
the place. The R.A.G.A. will shed a mild
radiance over the scene, while militia and
volunteer corps are going to walk out with
ladies in white satin frocks, powdered hair
and patches. No others need apply. The
Gov.-General will lend his presence. Mrs.
Wood-Davies has arranged a Court set;
Mrs. Dabbs is engineering a presentation set
(no chiffon details to hand) ; Mrs. Carver
and Miss Hart are linking up a dazzling ar-
ray of white satin shimmer, with pearl or-
naments and floral top-dressing; and Mrs.
Norman is rounding up a Coronation set.
Major Christian, R.A.G.A., has been im-
pounded as the responsible head of a Field
Battery set. Will he send his battery at a
gallop through the City Fathers’ water-fil-
ter, which advertises its presence in a pas-
sage adjacent to the ballroom, or meekly
hang his horses’ halters on the Town Hall
organ pipes? And will Mr. Waters, who
is adjutant of an Automobile Corps, toot the
horn of command at the rate of 50 miles an
hour, or motor so gently over the early
Victorian set (Mrs. Palmer’s device) that it
won’t know whether rubber is up or down?
Dolores is scampering across the blue
Pacific. She will take a few bars’ rest be-
fore the Hospice concert on June 10, when
the Town Hall is likely to need repairing
with elastic sides. The booking is climbing
up to star-performance limits. Walter
Kirby is coming from Melbourne to lend his
tuneful tenor to the charity. Lemmone on
the flute, Bryce Carter on the fiddle, and
Laurence Godfrey Smith on a grand piano,
are entrees of interest in a bill of fare which
adds to its strong meat the limpid sweetness
of the artistic Margaret Thomas (Mrs. Alex.
Gordon! chirrup.
The Coronation crackers in England will
go off to the accompaniment of free rail-
way tickets to the “colonial” guests. Thir-
teen is "oing to reform its reputation as an
Ishmael in numbers. Thirteen commercial
princes of 13 railway companies will
refuse to take a brass farthing from Austra-
lasian big-wigs.
Mrs. H. B. Irving, as Dorothea Baird,
was picked by Du Maurier partly for the
promise she bespoke when playing with Ox-
ford amateurs, and partly for two shapely
feet that fitted Trilby’s light-hearted romp
through Latin Quarter studios. It has
been mentioned more than twice that Doro-
thea is a sister of Mrs. B. R. Wise. The
Wise return to Sydney recalls a graceful line
I once saw in the autograph confession book
of an old friend, “To know all, is to forgive
all.” Over it were the initials “8.R.W.”
Olive Schreiner’s “Woman and Labor”
(Dymock’s) is txe best-discussed book the
Australian woman fs digging into at the pre-
sent moment. Notably she gets some fine
thunder out of a passage on the “New Wo-
man” :
The truth is, we are not new. We, who lead in
this movement to-day, are of that old, old Teutonic
womanhood which, 20 centuries ago, ploughed its
march through European forests and morasses beside
its male companion; which marched with the
Cimbri to Italy, and with the Franks across the
Rhine. ... We are women of a breed whose racial
ideal was no Helen of Troy, passed passively from
male hand to male hand, as men pass gold or lead ;
but that Brynhild, whom Segurd found, the warrior
maid who “wrought on him to the performing of
great deeds.”
Another gas-light wedding is on the wing.
Mr. J. P. Maiden and Miss Joyce Walford
are to be married this week some time after
sunset. The evening wedding is gradually
putting the day-light pageant into the cold
shades of opposition. There seems to be a
boom in beauty. The brilliant background
the Nice. Girl now feels it necessary to
hang behind her bridal veil is a decorative
luxury that riots in expensive trimmings.
Nigel Barker, who was a few years ago
the darling of the Sydney Uni. sports
grounds, is to be married on Saturday to
Miss Tilley, whose father plays with bulls
and bears and other wild animals in the
Sydney Stock Exchange.
Beerbohm Tree’s Wolsey and Cookson’s
Cardinal Campeius appear in the trial scene
of “Henry VIII.,” wearing their red hats.
As a fact, no cardinal ever wears his hat of
office. One reason is that it is as big as the
average dinner table. A Cardinal couldn’t
even take his hat with him to such a func-
tion as a London cause celebre. The
head covering is permanently in Rome.
Each Cardinal has a church there —for ex-
ample, Cardinal Moran’s is Saint Susannah
—and there his massive millinery is hung
till the day of his death.
Lieut. Harold Nutting, of 17th Lancers,
one of Lord Denman’s gentlemen-in-waiting,
has a cousin already located on this desir-
able earth-heap. Mummer Kirby’s the man,
and he’s in the “Balkan Princess” Co.
Some years ago Mr. Henry Clay Ide, then
Chief Justice of Samoa, used to bring his
two handsome young daughters here for a
holiday trip. According to the Maoriland
Observer, Marjorie lde, who was only let-
ting down the hem of her frock during the
Australian holiday scampers, has been turn-
ing heads in Madrid. Henry Clay Ide has
been located in the city of Dons and bombs,
in some billet connected with U.S.A. Lega-
tion. Marjorie’s good looks went to the
Spanish head, notably to that of one Don
Alfonso de Vallos, who comes from a family
which has been cultivating a crop of mar-
quises since the first land-selection in Spain.
Don Alfonso has persistently played the
guitar under the walls of the U.S.A. Lega-
tion. Henry Clay has played the indig-
nant father. Marjorie, after smasning up
public opinion, by riding through Madrid
with the infatuated Don (no duenna being
tied on to the tail of her horse), is to go to
N’York city or thereabouts for a change.
Altogether, it seems, Henry Clay Ide has
got as much excitement as a hen with one
chick out of his Madrid diplomatic roost.
A Froebel birthday party last week was
arranged by the Sydney Kindergarten
Union. Froebel, as everyone knows, found-
ed the Cult of the Unsmacked Child in Ger-
man. As a slight token of esteem, his
memory was served up in the Manchester
Unity Hall, with sprigs of Teutonic folk-
lore. Forty kindergarten students, in Ger-
man garb, formed the connecting link be-
tween Kaiserland dances and Australian
beeswaxed boards. Miss Elizabeth Jenkins,
who keeps an all-seeing eye on Girl and
Child-gardens in this city; Miss Margaret
Windeyer, who ploughs up the infant mind
with selected literature in her spare mo-
ments ; General Sec. Ellen Desailly; Mr.
Secretary Milner Stephen; and Chaplain
Brook Robinson, who teaches the Powerful
crew to trust in the Lord —a wise precau-
tion if this antiquated cruiser ever gets into
argument with a modern battleship—shewed
the cud of cake-and-coffee at the resurrec-
tion.
Prof. Anderson Stuart presided at the
first annual gathering of the King Edward
Home for Dogs the other day. The Rothery
family has a hard-worked reputation for
speaking severely to those who hurry horses
with crowbars, or wipe the eye of dejected
dogs with a brick. Miss Olga, of this
family, is lending an hon. nib to the new
dogs’ hostel as sec. Mrs. Brown-eyed Mac-
Kinnon, an elegant pillar of the Victoria
Club, is president, and Dr. A. J. Brady
and Mr. Leonard Dodds are vice-presidents.
Mrs. E. A. Irvine, hon. see. to the Waver-
ley stallholders at the recent All Nations’
Pair, had to grapple with one form of the
Lie Malicious that dogs the heels of suc-
cess. “They say” alleged that the stall
showed a deficit of £3O. Was Waverley down-
hearted? No! It gathered itself together, and
got a sworn statement from the treasurer.
Now it wears a smile of bashful apprecia-
tion of its own efforts. The sworn state-
ment affirms and kisses the book to the ef-
fect that £2OO 6s. 2d. was the net profit.
Ethel Turner’s cheerful chatter about the
burnt-umber beggars of Colombo recalls some
of Mrs. Ellis Rowan’s Cuban tales. The
Australian flower-painter went from U.S.A.
to the West Indies a few years ago, and
chased exotic blooms through Dominique and
Cuba. Here she was beset by myriads of
small, gravy-colored beggars, clad chiefly in
fresh air, who followed her easel, or aired
their bare legs on the box-seat of the tumble-
down carriage that bumped her over local
scenery. “One of these,” she told me, “a
bright-eyed urchin with fewer rags and more
audacity than the others, became my de-
voted follower. He asked me if I had come
from America. I told him I had. This was
his opportunity. ‘You see George Washing-
ton? I poor boy—l George Washington’s
own little boy: he my papa—you my
mamma!’” .But George Washington junior
was not in line with the cherry-tree morals
of his adopted parent. “One afternoon,”
said Mrs. Rowan, “I noticed an exquisite
rose growing over the high wall of a private
garden. George Washington, jun., on the
box-seat of my carriage, must have heard me
say I longed to paint it. Next morning it
was on my breakfast table. I thought it
wiser to ask no questions.”
It has taken about 25 years to discover 15
new stars in the velvet-shod vault of night.
Nine have been tracked by Mrs. Wilhelmina
P. Fleming, of the Harvard Observatory.
The American Suefragette drops this
news item with a loud clang on the feet of
any male person who says Woman can’t
find time to record her vote. She can find
heavenly systems, and lost dogs, and water
in the morning milk, and short-weight in
mutton chops, so it’s quite likely she is able
to locate the right square in which to pencil
a remark on a mere ballot-paper.
One who knows, or thinks she does, says
the recent Arthur Allen flower-trimmed
ball cost £lOOO. Allowing several grains of
salt for this quotation—which is given for
what it is worth—£6oo is not an outrageous
estimate for a glittering soiree that plunged
into a specially-built ball-room floor, before
it poured out one glass of champagne, or cut
one slice of turkey.
Captain Verney’s sister, who spent a sea-
son here, found Australia so pleasant a place
that she is likely to make her home-nest in
Queensland. Miss Verney is going to marry
Captain Newton, who hails from Brisbane,
and was formerly one of Lord Chelmsford’s
young gentleman. His present address is
a wool or cattle station out in Queensland’s
great spaces.
“Passionate socks,” a burst of dazzling
color on male ankles, first flurried feminine
emotions about two years ago. The epi-
demic has now spread to female hose. The
short skirt, is the obvious excuse for the
present shriek. Where, I ask you, is whis-
kerless youth to look—under or over the edge
of his evening paper—if he sits in a crowded
tram, bound for fashionable dress-centres,
opposite a pair of trim ankles, boldlv ad-
vertised in saxe-blue hose, with red and
white roses climbing round the insteps?
Twenty years ago, even a piano had its
legs draped. Ten years ago we clothed a
mantelpiece. Tan open-work hose, scaling
the heights of a city tram by daylight, were
once considered mild dissipations in dress.
Somebody has said that morals are merely
a matter of geography. The stocking, se-
verely snubbed (excepting in the ballet),
seemed to have no latitude to call its own.
To-day it swaggers in the public eye, and
expects to be mentioned in the social news.
Miss Edith Currie, whose family tree is
(or was; tied up in wool bales down River-
ma way, was, when last heard of, meditat-
ing a descent on the ancient town of Bruges.
Dora Meeson Coates, of this side, has been
getting herself talked about in the London
standard for her fine poster work. Lord
Roberts has approved of her last Rule Brit-
annia effort, designed for the National Ser-
vice League. The Standard, which isn’t
P r °he to slobber over inferior work, labels
the Meeson Coates poster “noble and im-
pressive.”
The newspaper notice of the Watson-
Higgs wedding party, which occurred at
JNewtown a few weeks ago, was heavily
weighted with the name of a deceased rela-
tive. Harold Rendall, eldest surviving son
of Walter C. Watson, M.D., of Manly, and
grandson of the late William Bourne Wat-
son, ex-member of N.S.W. Legislative As-
sembly.” It suggests an inquiry into the
pedigree of ex. Is the late respected Wat-
son “ex” because he has crossed the Styx, or
was he “ex” prior to that melancholy free-
ferry service? This reminds me (chiefly
because it is entirely unconnected) of the
query wedged in between sponge cake and
international politics at a Rose Scott tea-
P art y the other day. “Can you tell me,”
aska d Miss Blank, a minx with a persistent
note ot interrogation in her grey matter,
“the present address of Tolstoi?”
A,r„ , r „ ,
-M.l. Hugh Ward, back from Aiaonland,
bas ms t a iied his motto, “Keep on Smiling,”
j n “ tbe fi rra ’ s ” headquarters in Pitt-street.
“Did I try a Rachel beauty bath in Roto-
rua? Now, candidly, do you think I needed
it?” he chuckles. “We had a fine time
over there—went through the South Island
gorges, and saw most of Maoriland’s best
scenery. But I’m glad to be back and
settled down to this work. Busy? Well,
think what it means to the J.C.W. manage-
ment to bring out a Grand Opera Co., prac-
tically intact, from Covent Garden, and
ata ? a he ™ on the same scale. Abroad
” a > d op eras either the to.\ of millionaires,
t; man-
a^ aient , has ever tackled without help.”
„ pT 6 6
d w ,^. tz by I beo - W. Watkms. Paling s
P ubFsb t bls melodious addition to the local
aI f tz J lb £ ary ’ hlch 18 growing so large
t e Au fw ian . c f omposer ought soon to
Bort hls or° tchets in , to some new brand of
dance. The same firm publishes a much
mo re ambitious “Cantata Grotesque”—
Browning’s “Pied Piper” set to music by
Ernest Truman, Sydney’s city organist.
Yours, with a broad nib,
VANDORIAN.


The Kabo Girl
Always Has a Graceful Figure.
M
A
K
E
H
A
P
P
Y
F
I
G
U
R
E
S
—Bmaawa——■
■ mm,
JSSS
wmmammm
M
A
K
E
H
A
P
P
Y
F
I
G
U
R
E
S
Mbctfmek
HAVE NO BRASS EYELETS
Allow Perfect Freedom of
Movement without
sacrifice to appearance.
America’s Earliest Production.
Guaranteed Proof Against Rust.
Famous for their System of Loop Lacing.
ALL LEADING DRAPERS.
800,000 Copies Already Sold of the Popular
“Bookstall Series” of Australian Novels.
Written, Illustrated and Printed in Australia.
Price Is; Post Free, Is. Id.
“TOMMY THE HAWKER AND HIS BOY SNIFTER
By EDWARD DYSON, author of “ The Golden Shantyetc., etc.
Fully Illustrated. Price Is.; Post Free, Is. Id.
Tommy the Hawker is a “character,” and Snifter is not one whit behind. This is
essentially a humorous book, but it is something more, for on various occasions the Hawker
shows himself to be a man of parts —cool, calculating, daring and courageous. The stratagem
by which he, single-handed, captured two bushrangers is in itself worth buying the book for,
and his raiding of the Chinese gambling den is a fine example of what nerve, resource and
courage can accomplish.
ON AN AUSTRALIAN FARM. By STEELE RUDD.
The same rollicking fun pervades this book that obtained in the Selection Series, for Mr.
Davis’s keen sense of hnmor is his best asset, and he distributes largesse with a generous hand.
THE DASHWOODS. By STEELE RUDD.
A sequel to “On an Australian Farm.” The well-to-do farmer who takes his family to the
metropolis to see the sights, meets many amusing adventures. There is a smile in every line.
Books by that Prince of Australian Writers, STEELE RUDD.
A LAUGH IN EVERY PAGE.
“BOOKSTALL SERIES,” Price Is. each, post free, Is. Id.
X'l « 3il
•OUR
New
C^iecTi^'
The Poor Parson.
From Selection to City.
Our New Selection.
Duncan M‘Clure.
For Life.
Stocking Our Selection.
Sandy’s Selection.
Dad in Politics.
On an Australian Farm.
Back at Our Selection.
On Our Selection.
The Dashwoods.
BUSHRANGING BOOKS.
John Vane, Bushranger,
By CHARLES WHITE.
Three Years with Thunderbolt,
By AMBROSE PRATT.
Short-Lived Bushrangers,
By CHARLES WHITE.
Übique, the Scientific Bushranger,
By CLARENCE MARTIN.
ALL ONE PRICE, Is. each; POST FREE, Is. Id.
LISTS SENT POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS.
N.S.W. Bookstall Co., 476 George St., Sydney.
And all
Branches and
Booksellers.
HARDY BROTHERS
LIMITED
atssi
fiTiMmmohd
0-0
VICE-REGAL
JEWELLERS
QUALITY
DESIGN
VALUE.
Ruby- «s? Diamond
r-fJtp-o-o
SPECIAL ILLUSTRATED PRICE
LIST SENT POST FREE TO
ANY ADDRESS,
c^o\ ce
X»2O
Three Stone
j^k'i
2.3
£BO
Rings
\
SELECTIONS OF RINGS FOR-
WARDED TO THE COUNTRY
ON APPROVAL IF DESIRED.
Diamond
FIVE PER CENT. DISCOUNT ON ALL CASH TRANSACTIONS.
SHOWROOMS :
13 HUNTER STREET,
118 QUEEN STREET,
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
London Address: 19 Charterhouse Street, Holborn Circus, E.C.
Diamond
ft Jack


Speechless With Wonder
are the friends of- those relieved of Indigestion, and
all Stomach Troubles, by Dr. Sheldon’s Digestive
Tabules. Price, 2s. 6d. per tin.*
Australian football is magnificent. But it
demands tremendous self-restraint to play it
without riotous proceedings and stoush.
iherefore the clever player, having thor-
oughly assimilated the rules of the- game,
knows his best chance of putting on the
brake ot self-control consists in wise and
consistent assimilations of DCL the
Whisky of the Wise.*
9P
:
o m
P.D
“You
Can
Keep
Youthful.
Every woman
knows that she is
as old as she looks.
Facial beauty may
pass w th the flight
of time, but the
figure youthful and beautiful remains when
proper care and corseting is faithfully
attended to. The famous French
Royal
“P.D”
Rustless Corsets
are the only' corsets modelled on those
principles of scientific symmetry and
resiliency which impart the graceful lines
of beauty to the figure. Each corset model
designed to ensure the wearer sylph-like
charm of line and curve in absolute com-
fort always.
“Ask to be shown the New Season’s
Models.”
TRADE
CT
MARK.
HAYWARD’S
*
Costumes S Riding Habits
arc Known All Over Australia.
WRITE OR CALL FOR
CATALOGUE OF NEW FASHIONS.
323 George Street, Sydney
Opp.
Paling’s.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, June 5, 1911.
My Dear Yarrie, —
The Birthday Meeting, at Flemington on
Saturday; drew more women than usual. Or
it may have been the new Governor and his
party that were the magnets. Excellency
Fuller wore spats, astrachan collar, and an
intensely shiny top-hat. The Lady wore
electric-blue feathers .in her spreading hat
and a soft chiffon velvet coat. Her sister,
Miss Phipps, looked the true- sport in a
short skirt, with a sealskin coat well clear
of her ankles and smart shoes. Over her
shoulder were slung a business-like pair of
glasses, and she explored the paddock, at-
tended by a devoted pair of aides. She is
a tall, handsome brunette, with an easy
carriage, and looked smart in a broad black
hat, wreathed about with little Eve’s apples.
In the viceregal box, Mrs. and Miss
Clarke—Apple isle relatives of Rupert—
took an exalted view of things. Mrs.
Clarke was in a magnificent sealskin coat
with a sable collar; Miss Clarke distanced
all the good frockers with her short, navy-
blue tailor-made, a pot-hat in bright blue
satin, and black fur. Beatrice Madden, in
blue and a beatilic smile, was with fiance
Jack Baillieu and his sister. Miss Bail-
lieu wore the cutest small hat, with squirrel
tails cocked up at the back of it. Colonel
Appleton’s girl Tettie sported a paddy-green
sash to her turned-up hat. Mrs. Geddes
chaperoned three or four Toorakian maidens
in a snug party, which kept to one corner
of the grandstand, while the attendant men-
folk “did” the paddock.
Mrs. Howard was followed by positive
cries of .envy. Her sable cape was a criss-
cross affair of perfectly-matched skins, and
shone even among a winter.’s-day show.
Several recent brides paraded. Mrs. Judge
Casey, with a cockade in Her hat, hostessed
a motor party with a specially-served ham-
per tea. Mrs. Jim Purves wore sable in her
flat hat, and white cloth tailorings. The
returned Fenner girl has cultivated a dash-
ing style of frocking and hatting since her
wanderings with Gwladys Chirnside; she
waved some impressive plumes on an acre or
so of hat. Eugenie Duggan Anderson was
in black velvet, with a whole ostrich on her
head. Mrs. Grantham, buried in furs,
had her daughter along, for the last time be-
fore the marrying.
Came to the conclusion after a stroll
round that furs are the salvation of woman;
they make a fresh face glow like-a rose, and
old faces lose, wrinkles and crow’s feet.
Governor Fuller, surrounded by a large as-
trachan collar, kilted Boy Scouts and a
crowd attired for wet weather, proclaimed
the vice-regal suburb of Malvern a city
one moist afternoon lately. In return he
was given -a certain amount of refreshments
and an ornamental key which, so far as 1
am aware, will open nothing. Lady Fuller
sat alongside and. smiled under a Gainsbbr-
ough hat, made of cherry juice, decked
with pheasants’ quills. She gowned her
slender form in black, and muffled in cosy
furs.
Malvern’s Mayoress McKinley waved
Coronation-blue feathers from her hat, and
Miss McKinley was attired in sapphire blue
and squirrel furs. The Best lady wore
mouse-color. Mrs. Knox and Mrs. Carty
Salmon were amongst those present on the
dais, set like a bandstand on the lawn. A
marquee was snugly arranged as a reception
room, and through it the guests strolled
in single file over the nice, damp,
sawdusted grass. It was a day for
thick Soles and the awful things known
as “serviceable shoes.” Subsequently the
Governor and his party inspected the gar-
dens, and the guests followed like sheep.
Turnstiles blocked the uninvited majority
from joining in and disorganising the stately
function. They looked over and through
the fence for someone to present them with
the freedom of the place—with or without
an ornamental key. But of course nobody
attended to them.
Malvern did not intend to stop at the
proclamation and reception; but two dy-
namos stopped somewhere and the electrics
refused to light. A torchlight procession
was thereupon hurriedly cancelled and post-
poned to some evening in the near future.
Torchlight processions along dark streets
would have looked too much like the search
for the missing will.
The day following was Children’s Day,
when the Corporation presented each
imp with a bag containing one bun,
one piece of a heavy plum-cake, and
one slab of iced sweetness. The ravening
infants absorbed the gifts of food, and then
played about in the damp. The weather
had been weeping for days, and was not
yet quite over its hysterics, so an inspired
daily paper reporter wrote that the young
Malvernites _ “swished the raindrops from
the grass with their swinging feet.” It no
doubt looked poetical; but when Jimmie
and Dulcie rush round in wet grass for
the best part of a day, it frequently means
that mother has to put on the kettle and
fight croup most of the night.
The most brilliant dance of the early win-
ter, so far as the younger set is concerned,
was the Bachelors’ Ball on Friday night.
Twenty bachelors with good recommenda-
tions to mammas took the St. Kilda Town
Hall. Each supplied a solid chaperone and
wore the blue badge of a flameless life. To
an.excellent orchestra, and a floor that was
a dream, the Twenty added decorations in
amber-tinted leaves, and the prettiest girls
of their acquaintance. The committee-men,
led by Secretary Leo Crane, gave themselves
no rest and few dances, and came out of the
ordeal of stage management with flying-
colors.
The dressing recipe mostly started : “Take
one and a-lialf yards of duchesse satin,
cover it with three-quarters of a yard of
mnon, and weight the total with several
pounds of expensively veiled beads and cry-
stals.’’ The rest was girl and stockings.
Stockings and shoes are having an innings ;
none of the little-mouse-peeping-in-and-out
business of earlier days. Nearly every girl
wore silken stockings and silken shoon to
match her brief frock, and girded up her
pinned-on curls with a snood to match the
beaded draperies.
There were only about three long frocks
among the dancers. Stately Molly Linden
wore her powder-blue draperies long and
sweeping, and her shoes were powder-grey.
Mrs. Thomas held up several yards of silk
and showed pink silk extremities. Mrs.
Thiele wore a lovely - black envelope, and
brought her big, handsome husband —also in
black. Mrs. Willie Felstead wore gold
tissue and gold shoes. Mrs. Gunn wore
black and silver. Miss Ellis, a small, fair
belle of St. Kilda, put some snap into a black
and gold net cap. a-top of a black and gold
dress. One girl made a castanet accom-
paniment to the two-step by wearing
“bugles” that clashed around her.
The Fuller chickens run so: Bridget,
Patience and Maude, Gerard and Christo-
pher, and baby Victoria.
The willowy Fuller lady has become
President of the Victoria League. So the
household is not going to monopolise her
time.
Henry Bracy has been busy trying voices
for the Melba Opera at' Her Majesty’s.
There has been an overpowering rush of
excellent sopranos. He could easily fill up
the opera-houses of London, Paris and New
York with this line of goods—gems (more
or less) from the field which gave the dia-
mond of Melba and the pearl of Castles.
All the church choirs would willingly tum-
ble in for the opera, but Bracy has to cry,
“Hold, enougu!” to the sopranos. So
nightingales, larks, thrushes, and black-
birds, not to speak of lyrebirds, kooka-
burras, stormbirds, mopokes and magpies,
return to perch in church. The next big-
gest rush, has been of mediocre baritones;
but there are very few srood basses. Con-
traltos are not so many, either; most of
them exult in a bullock-hell tang—the clank
of a frog in a pond. “Oh!” exclaims
Bracy, “please don't!” The grievance is
with the tenors; as to these Bracy is almost
desperate. “You know, my man, you’re not
a tepor at all.” Positively Melbourne has
not, it seems, 13 all told, even though other
parts have been sending ambitious q'uotas.
There is a curious deficiency in this quality
of voice, and Bracy is asking why. There
must be razors in our air, for there are
heaps of chorus tenors in Germany, Italy,
France, England and America.
Three-minute impression of Fuller ( Victoria's
new State Governor) passing along Collins-
street on his arrival.
The St. Kilda house that sheltered the
now-honeymooning Clarke lady has been
done up and re-let, and the chronically
curious confess they are “dying to see what
it looks like inside.” The gossips regard it
as a hallowed spot.
Staunch friends of Mrs. Doubleday and
daughter Leila whipped up a fair-sized mat-
inee benefit for the Doubleday Fund'at'St.
Kilda Theatre last Thursday. There was
only the usual picture programme plus three
or four musical items to set against the
rival attraction of a Martyn Hagan mat-
inee at the Royal; still the smart new hall
in George-street was quite half filled.
Manager Willie Lincoln did the amiable in
front of the house, and ex-Senator Best
made a speech from the stage. He
talked in Parliamentary terms of Leila
Doubieday and her talent, and the lot of
money that had been needed to keep the
gifted maiden at her studies in Vienna for
five years or so, and he delicately suggested
that a little more of the needful remained
to be raised ere she was a self-supporting
artist. The making of a violinist s reputa-
tion is an expensive process. Gentle Leila,
whose portrait in the vestibule showed her
as a charming bud, is to get her first show
m London next week, when she will play
at the Queen’s Hall with a big orchestra be-
hind her. Afterwards she will nave to
complete ner conquest of the critics in Ger-
many, no doubt. These remarks, or some
of them, were delivered by lawyer Best in
an elderly spirit. He spoke paternally of
Leila,” without adding her surname. But
he looked —from a little way off—more
youthful than ever. He might have been a
hard, spry citizen of 30. Somehow he has
contrived to support the indignity of knight-
hood without putting on rotundity, or other-
wise looking conscious of his painful posi-
tion.
Alma Barber, who has been appearing as
a kittenish Miss in “Our Miss Gibbs,” has
left for London for a few sips of fog and a
little recreation. Connie Milne is taking her
place in the Williamson show.
The co. which passed from Hugh Ward to
Reg. Wykeham has a weakness for matri-
. In the journeying round, Celia
Ghilom and Rosie Musgrove annexed part-
ners ; also the advance agent succumbed to
an attack of orange _ blossom. Now Miss
Redfern, a youngster, in her early twenties,
blushingly admits that she has been mar-
ried since January, and that her Sydney
husband is dragging her off the stage. Miss
1 reston, a small, dimpled, fair girl, is re-
hearsing for the bride’s stage shoes. Manager
Vvykeham, who is a nice bachelor in the
thirties, smilingly congratulates his happy
people—and remains single!
The Dog and Poultry Show, which is just
now barking and crowing at the Exhibition
Building, has a compensating circumstance
this year. The concert hall that used to be
deserted is now a People’s Picture Palace,
and the wearied dog-fanciers and hen-experts
can drop in there at concession prices and re-
vive themselves with melodrama on the screen.
After an hour of walking amidst the din of
a dog show’, half an hour’s contemplation of
a silent cinematograph should be refreshing.
Miss Elma Highett, of Armadale, who is
something of an heiress, has whispered the
usual “les” to the youngest son of Admiral
and Mrs. W ake, of Helens, Sidmouth, Devon
(Eng.). The young man w r as terribly dealt
with in his christening. In a moment of
rapture his parents called him Arthur Leofric
St. Aubyn.
The latest engagement links the name of
Dorothy Hinde—a Toorakian maiden with
a dazzling complexion—with that of Lieuten-
ant George Meredith, of Launceston.
Miss Charlotte Hemming gave a sober
little party at the Alexandra Club last week.
Since her mother’s recent death she has
been living very quietly. Now, to add to her
loneliness, sister Addie has departed to
Fogland, and her married sister has gone
with her husband to South America. The
cheer-up party included Mrs. Robert Walker,
who is wanning fame locally for the work
she is doing with the South Melbourne
crhches for children of busy work-a-day
mothers.
The Alexandra Club spreads in ever-in-
creasing content over the Gas Co.’s fine
premises. It has two dozen large bedrooms,
with an extra-special brand of Marianne to
look after the comfort of members. The
amber drawing-room curtains are comfort-
ing to the eyes these bitter grey winter days.
In the whole two flats occupied by the Club
only two footholds are open to male crea-
tures. Members may conduct a man into
the dining-room and afterwards plant him
in a cosy little brown smoking-room. But
from all other parts of the Club’s domain he
is rigidly excluded. At the door of the read-
ing-room a large notice demands Silence in
foot-high letters. I am sure a lot of the
members avert their eyes when they pass it.
Gaud Mayor Davey and his Mayoress will
give their Coronation hop on June 23. Gov-
ernor-General Dudley and the little Coun-
tess, and State Ex. Fuller and his lady,
w’ill be present. The list of guests also glit-
ters with the names of the new Marquis and
Marchioness of Linlithgow.
Melbourne’s polite Bohemian circle was
sorry to hear last week that Mrs. Abrahams,
of South Yarra, had been interviewed by a
surgeon, and w’as lying a-bed with a nurse in
attendance. She is now on the mend after a
somewhat bad turn, but for which she would
have taken the trip to Fiji with her husband,
whose health is also off color of late. Mr.
Abrahams started from Melbourne last Sat-
urday, with his sister-in-law and niece Julie,
and Dr. and Mrs. Joske.
Andy Brennan, the youngest son of Coun-
cillor Brennan, has made a small stir in his
corner by taking his M.D. degree at the
early age of 20 or so. He is now resident at
St. Vincent’s Hospital.
Bachelor girls hereabouts are getting into
the habit of drifting off in pairs for foreign
touring. Leila Armytage, of the woolly
clan, and Cissie O’Loghlen, daughter of the
late baronet Bryan, are the latest travel-
duettists. They left on the China, and will
tour and flat together for a year or more.
They will dive into Ireland during the wan-
der, and pull up at the castle of Cissie’s
brother, who is Lord-Lieutenant of County
Clare.
The most expensive people are beating up
political meetings this winter. Mrs. Les-
lie Stuart invited the surrounding motors
to Woodside,, Toorak, on Tuesday afternoon,
and spoke seriously to their furred owners.
Mrs. Herbert Brookes, who revealed an ex-
quisitely-fitting frock to an admiring circle
when she flung off her furs, wrestled grace-
fully with the eight planks of the Liberal
party’s shaky platform. Allegedly to “edu-
cate” Australian women, monthly meetings
are held in snug Toorakian drawing-rooms.
Mrs. Barrett is president and Mrs. Knox
secretary. A male person was induced to
help this time by speaking severely of Labor.
The befurred darlings rewarded him with
glove-muffled applause. Tea followed this
exertion.
Any woman who wears artificial hair
should keep a gun to shoot the limelight man
if he attempts to direct his beam in her direc-
tion. The concentrated glare of the spot-
light shows up her dead hair as it really is—-
dry, lustreless stuff, which suggests Egyp-
tian tombs, mummies and cere-cloths. I was
at the theatre the other night when the de-
mon at the back of the circle started his fizz-
lantern. A few seats in front was a per-
fect haystack of fair hair which looked the
genuine goods while all the lights were up.
In the_ intense gloom, the white merciless
beam lit up that fraudulent coiffure as it had
never been lit before, and made most of it
look just like chair-stuffing. The unfortu-
nate female beneath it went on chatting to
her escort unconscious of the awful revela-
tion.
Montague Brown has been exhibiting his
works at the Melbourne Athenaeum. Most
of his efforts picture the gum-tree, made
pink or pallid by setting sun or morning
fog; but he has also copied a lot of the cli-
mate in Queensland, Tasmania, and other-
where. His biggest productions are “Even-
ing’s Golden Glow” and “Summer Past-
ures,” both of which show groups of Austra-
lian trees with their customary companions
of shadows and sheep. Some of his minor
bits, picturing the country around Cairns,
are flat, and his frightfully rainy subjects
supply a fit of the miserables. For the rest,
there are Scottish pieces, with some very
fair painting in them.
, A historic cottage in Little Bourke-street
has just been pulled down to make room for
a new wool store. There, in the ’4o's, the
late Justice Redmond Barry practicallv
founded the Public Library. ' In 1 the build-
ing, which was at the rear of his little cottage
home, he had a library, and early Melbourne
residents were free to come in and read of
an evening. An old mulberry tree which
was in the Judge's garden has been spared
the axe.
From my Adelaide correspondent:—
Tuesday night’s Empire Ball was for the benefit
of the popular society which exists to missjonise
visiting seamen. It was crowded; also it was one
of the most gorgeous functions that ever struck this
city’s eye. Actually one managed to forget the
gauntness of the Exhibition Building wherein the
parade occurred. Most parts of the Empire (not
even forgetting the Solomons) were represented in
the “sets,” and the dresses did the originators proud.
Hugo Leschen drilled the parades in an effective
march. The promoters even arranged a final comic
item. The way back to privacy at the conclusion of
the march led up a steepish ramp, and as the par-
ticipants’ shoes had collected no small quantity of
French chalk during the evolutions, the effect—
from a spectator’s point of view—was most exhil-
arating. Have you ever tried to negotiate a steep
ascent in slippery shoes? If not—don’t! Some of
Adelaide’s ieunesse doree is busy framing quite un-
necessary excuses for its amazing gymnastic feats
and its poor balancing powers.
Queer what assets the seeker for work lavs claim
to. One jackeroo advertised the other day for a
billet as farm or station hand. Amongst other gifts
he mentioned his “refinement.” No doubt it would
come in useful in clearing mallee scrub and reason-
ing with dilatory oxen.
The S.P.C.A. meeting on Monday was responsible
for a hurried hour for milliners. Many feminine en-
thusiasts, much beplumed as to headgear, were en
route for the meeting, when the news got about that
an eminent K.C. was to make birds the text of his
discourse. The result was a wild rush for the hat
shops to buy harmless velvet toques and smug gear
with only artificial vegetables for their decoration
This society, by the way, has put up a sort of record
Among the audience last week could be counted
quite a number of young male bloods, whereas the
average S.P.C.A. meeting in other parts is attended
by old ladies and thin lath-like gentlemen.
Government House promises a ball in honor of the
Coronation, as well as the lesser joys of a reception
and there are rumors of some private frivols. Also,
Acting-Mayor Bonython promises to entertain. Thus
those of us who are left won’t do so badlv, and aided
by the moving picture-shows we’ll possibly see the
affair far better (for a modest shilling and with no
discomfort) than those who strain sadly on the outer-
most edge at “ ’Ome.”
The weather authorities are all on the side of
sport just now. Rain threatened for the opening of
the A.R.C. Birthday Meeting on Saturday, but did
not do more than threaten, and a big crowd assembled
* n ? a !< e a record to te. There was a cheerful displav
of chiffons and well-built gowns, and the racing was
good. *
North Terrace, east of King William-street, long
sacred to local medicos, has received a shock. China
has invaded it in the person of a “specialist,” who
paid £4OOO for a residence formerly occupied by the
late Dr. Ellison. As the “specialist’s” new abode
almost faces the Adelaide Hospital gates, and as he
hangs out a glaring electric sign about 12ft. long
the wrath of the profession is bubbling over at the
spout. Worse still, the learned man of China charges
03. Od. for consultation, and his consulting-room is
already working overtime.
Sincerely yours,
JOHANNA.
“R. 8.”: Plinyner and Denniston have done boom
business m Westralia. Brains, energy and a com-
plete ignorance of G. V. Brooke’s and Alfred Dam-
pier s achievements will give any man success if he
has the goods and knows how and when to book a


BBMBMBBMBBMBIHMWBj
*
I |Sil
ss#S s s»sl^wS«l^S,*i«»f* : iiii
.
SMNMnMMMw
m
118
m
msi
■
i
■ :
uSSSE
« W
Wm&
u
8 i,-' 98
:• H
■H
*
N
V. ; . <
< i*? ,.
■■ - -
%
w
%*\
sw.
<5?
*s*£ te&U j**
1
■■ll
JBBp ■■
Mi
>.£i;
m.
**< w
■:_J
Ir *jfc '~~‘rn ' \V>»
Wwl
itllHEMli/WMjl
£& Ro AkinV^w r. "'....
W- v l
mm
SRAMI&
■
:
iiii#ssiiiiiii
mam
IB
■MI
:
Government Guaranteed Brandy.
THERE are Pure Food Laws and Pure Beverage Laws for the protection of the
people of Australia to-day.
Chateau Tanunda Brandy is distilled under the direct control of the
Federal Government, and from the time the grape juice leaves the presses until the
Brandy is thoroughly matured, the Commonwealth officers watch every process
IN YOUR INTEREST.
The presence of that G. R. label on the bottle means that your Government
guarantees the contents to be distilled WHOLLY FROM GRAPE WINE by a
pot still or similar process, and that the Brandy has been matured by storage in
wood for a period of not less than two years.
In no other part of the world is Brandy made under conditions that offer
such complete protection to the consumer.
Ask for Chateau Tanunda—the Pure Australian Standard Brandy.
■
m
■


HER OBJECTION TO IT.
“The only objection I have to Chamberlain’s
Cough Remedy is that the children are always asking
for it,” writes Mrs. J, S. Phillips, of Rockwell Street,
South Broken Hill, N.S.W. “My kiddies have both
been subject to colds and croup ever since they were
born. My eldest boy was so bad at one time that
he was in bed for a week. In fact we despaired of
his life, but thanks to Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy
he was soon well again.”*
The “King of All” Cigar brings the American
method of “Cigars direct from the maker to the
smokers,” to Australia. Messrs. Craig and Aitken
import the “King of All” direct from the maker,
and thereby assure a very high quality smoke at a
moderate price. The “King of All” is a pure young
leaf cigar of the finest quality, shaped by hand and
dried by natural means. At 3d. each, Messrs. Craig
and Aitken claim the “King of All” Cigar to be the
equal of many selling at 6d., selling in light or
heavy weights. It is stocked by all tobacconists and
good hotels, and is known by the registered brand,
without which none should be accepted as the genuine
“King of All.” If not obtainable in any district, the
“King of All” can be had four a shilling, post free,
or 50 in a box for 9s. 6d. Sample box of 10, 2s. 6d.,
post free, direct from the Australian agents, Messrs.
Craig and Aitken, 654 George Street, Sydney.*
The Rapid Healer.
Rexona provides the latest short cut of Science to
a complete remedy for Pimples, Boils, Sores, Wounds,
and Skin Diseases generally. Which road will vou
take, reader? The old-fashioned, tedious, long way
round, full of irritations, relapses and delays; or the
short cut to the rapid remedy which modern Science
has provided you in the shape of Rexona? Sold in
triangular pots at Is. 6d. and 3s,
HEART TROUBLE
Distressing Symptoms that
Cause a lot of Worry and
Anxiety,
♦
Symptoms of heart trouble are frequent
in Anaemia and Indigestion. “I can’t hurry,
my heart thumps so,” is the common expres-
sion of every anajmic person. In Indiges-
tion there are wind spasms that send dart-
ing pains about the heart, which make the
victims often think they have heart disease.
When the blood supply is built up or the
Indigestion cured, the heart symptoms natur-
ally disappear, as there is nothing to cause
them. Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills have cured
a great many cases of Anmmia and Indiges-
tion and have given sufferers relief from dis-
tressing heart symptoms that caused a lot of
worry and anxiety. They actually make
new blood. The following case shows how
valuable they are in heart trouble.
Mrs. Helene Warnock, 75 Mason Street,
S. Yarra, Melbourne, tells how Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills built up her health, and her
experience should prove of interest to other
sufferers. Mrs. Warnock’s own words are:
“Some time back my health began to fail.
My heart began to give me a great deal of
trouble. I had always had a good consti-
tution previously, but now I noticed my
heart would flutter nearly all the time, and
with any exertion it would begin to thump
furiously, especially if I walked up a hill,
and I’d get such a gone sort of feeling, as if
I were going to die. I dare not hurry for a
tram. My heart would palpitate, as if it
were going to jump out of its place. I’d
get out of breath at once, and have to stop
every few yards to rest. My breathing
would be so quick and hurried I’d have to
gasp. I used to feel sure my heart was ;
seriously affected. I always had a cough,
apparently from the stomach, and I was de-
void of my strength. My face was always
flushed, without cause. I’d have to take a
rest now and then in the day, I felt so
fagged and tired out. I slept and ate pretty
well, but really the food didn’t seem to do me
any good, or nourish me, and I fell away
considerably. Even a little bit of house-
work was a trouble, I got so easily knocked
up. My heart was rarely free from palpi-
tation. My nerves were so weak, and my
blood so thin. I Was very easily startled,
and at times would feel very worried and ir-
ritable. But I found Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills a perfect tonic. They began to tone
me up from the start. My nerves steadied
down, and my heart began to beat less ir-
regularly. I bought another box, and felt
better still, so I kept on with four boxes.
My health was quite restored, and I have
kept well ever since. My strength and en-
ergy gradually came back,' and I feel better
than I have done for years.”
You can judge the shopman’s opinion of
you if he tries to sell you anything else
when you ask for Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills.
Those “just as good” remedies are never of-
fered unless he thinks the customer easy to
gull. The price is 2s. 9d. per box; six
boxes 15s. 3d., of all dealers, or from the
Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co., of Australasia
Ltd., Sydney.
flpa^g
None but »
good Truss
is of ser-
vice. Den-
yer’s Special
Elastic Truss
has been
evolved b y
careful study
to provide
perfect sup-
port and
safety. No springs to irritate. DENVER BROS.,
Truss and Abdominal Belt Makers, 281 GEORGE
STREET (opp. Hunter Street), SYDNEY : and
corner S'vansron & Lonsdale Streets, Melbourne.
denyer
©
Single, 17/6;
Double, 22/6
Call or write.
POLITICAL
POINTS
A cable message states that Ireland had
a surplus of £4,000,000 worth of eggs last
year for export. Yet some politicians won-
der why so many Irish electorates return
Home Rulers unopposed.
SAMPLING THEM.
BUYER: “ This dog, which you told me had a
fond and affectionate disposition, has already
bitten every member of my family."
SELLER: “ And which does he like best?”
Even Holman is beginning to see it now!
In the Assembly the. other night, speaking of
the Referenda, he said :
The people have decided that the task of dealing
with social abuses is not to be taken out of our
unworthy hands and given to an abler body.
Open confession for the good of the mole.
Judging by his public outburst when a
colleague dared to differ from him, the
N.S.W. Acting Premier doesn’t want Min-
isters. He wants automatolmans.
The hero of Mount Kembla is now, it
seems, the hero of Referendum Day. A post-
card has been issued, adorned with a per-
sonal photograph, and subscribed “Thanks
and Congratulations. C. G. Wade. Ap. 20,
1911.” Bill Adams has won the Battle of
Waterloo again.
Victoria is handling its new Elwood Mead
immigrants in a sprightly fashion. One
little lot arrived by the Runic on a recent
Friday* went up to Bamawm the same day,
inspected the land available, chose the blocks
they favored most, returned to town to lodge
their applications, and were back again and
at work on the land on the following Thurs-
day.
The census figures show that Sydney has
a total population of 637,794, and that the
female mnabitants exceed the male by
12,000. In 1901 Melbourne led Sydney by
3000, but the bloated Ma capital’s popula-
tion for 1911 has now got 45,964 ahead;
wherefore Sydney rejoices. At its present
rate of gorge Sydney will reach the million
mark about 1922.
Now it’s Scotland that is feeling the pinch
of the English, Yankee and Jewish land-
grabbing, land-wasting millionaires. The
census just taken shows an appalling de-
cline in rural population—-only 96 McTav-
ishes and Stewarts and the like, where but
10 years ago there were 100. Almost every
Scotch paper is filled with bitterness at the
discovery.
The dames of one Fat Woman’s Political
Association in Victoria undertake to devote
one hour a day to providing meals, knitting
socks, and making underwear for “the re-
spectable poor, ’ which in such cases means
the respectful poor. Tiie Bulletin hopes
the dames will not expect “the respectable
poor” to eat the hash they make of politics:
it won’t matter so much if they are content
to remain merely sisters of mercery.
The divided-control folly in Sydney civic
government has had its worst development
in the fact that 10 or 12 bodies can and do
tear up the streets at any old hour of the
day or night. If you meet a gang of work-
men with pickaxes and spades digging holes
in Sydney, you have to guess which it is—
City Council, Works Department, Water
and Sewerage Board, Harbor Trust, Gas Co.,
Hydraulic Power Co., Telephones, or Rail-
way and Tramway Commissioners. Still,
they might be burglars digging a tunnel into
a bank, as no one notices who they are, the
citizens and police being so used to strange
men coming along with tools and sinking
shafts in the main streets.
The Labor lead-
er of the N.S.W.
House of Doze
threw himself
against Ancient
Custom on the
first day of the ses-
sion, and merely
bruised himself.
A fter listening
drearily to about
three and a-half
tons of reports and
other words, Flow-
ers suggested that,
to save time and
tongue, the Lieut.-
Governor’s speech
might be “taken as
read.” The House
gasped at the idea,
and McLaurin ob-
jected in pained ac-
cents that it would
“involve discour-
tesy to the Lieut.-
Governor.” The
Speech ran into 3!)
long paragraphs,
and the Sleepers
knew everything it
contained, having-
heard the Lieut.-
Gov. read it only
a couple of hours
previously; still it
was “the custom”
to read it in the
House, so read it
was. And the
Sleepers dozed hap-
pily, and Time
tramped remorse-
lessly on, and
Business waited
on the doormat.
There are some Acts of Parliament
through which it is quite possible to drive
a coach and four. Yet any attempt at
carrying one’s swag through would result in
six months, without the option.
Weary’s Government is thinking of tack-
ling the main roads problem in a typically
weary way: it proposes to borrow a million
or thereabouts, and lend the landowners
money to repair some old roads and make a
few new ones. Of course there is to be a
sinking fund ; that is to say, the Govern-
ment which borrows the money to relieve the
landowners from taxing themselves, will
also provide the sinking fund. It is a
beautiful scheme, and if nobody had men-
tioned a general election one could be sure
that such a thing was within smelling dis-
tance.
Walter Bevan, Solicitor-General—ap-
pointed by the McGowen Cabinet—has been
told off to attend the Legislative Council
and assist the representatives of Fat in
wrestling with legal teclinicalil'es. The
reason given is that, owing to t’.' dearth of
legal talent in the Chamber* members are
unable to get expert advice when neecssarv.
Apart from a sprinkling of solicitors, three
Ks.C. are in the Upper House —Pilcher,
Garland, and Gannon—and there are a
couple of barristers who don’t wear silk.
But this array of legal talent isn’t appar-
ently going to take any professional interest
in the measures of a Labor Government.
Certain Right Thinking people at Ren-
mark (S.A.) have been threatening to “take
the law into their own hands” for the good
of their country. A new name offers for
their “national” emotion —Fatriotism.
NOT QUITE HIS WAV.
BILL: “ Say, ’Any, how would you like to go
in for flying?”
HARRY: “No good to me! I’d rather die a
natural death by drinking."
Apropos the proposed N.S.W. legislation
to deal more effectively with wife-deserting
husbands. One of the first laws promul-
gated by Phillip, Australia’s first Governor,
was that “none should be permited to quit
the colony who had wives or children in-
capable of supporting themselves, until they
had found security for the maintenance of
such wives or children.” Nowadays it is
only the merchant who can prevent his credi-
tor quitting: the wife can see the “old man”
packing up, and can’t do more than heave
the crockery at him.
The N.S.W. cow cocky voted No at the
top of his voice the other day, when he was
asked to strengthen the hands of the Com-
monwealth, so that it might deal with rings,
combines, trusts and monopolies. Now he
is getting his reward. Pig-raising is his
chief side-line; and a correspondent to the
S. M. Herald exposes the existence of a
ring of pig-buyers in Sydney, and shows that
the members are raking in about £1 a head
profit on the squealers.
The three ways of doing political party
business in N.S.W.: (1) The Laborites
hold a caucus; (2) the Liberals hold a con-
ference; (3) the members of David Storey’s
party “have an exchange of opinions.” They
all three amount to the same thing, and the
consequences are the same; but for party
purposes the Sydney daily press pretends that
the caucus is ruining the country, while the
conference and the “exchange of opinions”
are intended to save it.
Dear Bulletin,—May I draw Mr.
Wade’s attention to another conspiracy to
benefit Melbourne at the expense of Syd-
ney? In a recently-published table of mar-
ine-route distances which will be shortened
by the opening of the Panama Canal, the
distance of New York and London from the
chief ports of the world is given. In this
table Melbourne is mentioned, but not Syd-
ney. Now, considering that Sydney is the
greatest port in the Southern Hemisphere,
with the most beautiful harbor and the
greatest and noblest statesmen, this is an
insult. The canal will shorten the dis-
tance from N’York to Melbourne by nearly
3000 miles. Why cannot we have the dis-
tance to Sydney also shortened? Why are
we neglected? Where are Wade
kin and Percy Hunter?—Yours, Locust.
The recent Adelaide Chamber of Com-
merce Congress burst into applause when its
chairman, in his opening address, got to —
“As commercial men, we must congratulate
ourselves upon the result
of the Referendum.”
Then it proceeded to
business, and part of the
business was to pass re-
solutions in favor of uni-
formity throughout the
Commonwealth with re-
spect to (1) bankruptcy
and insolvency and (2)
foreign corporations
formed within the limits
of the Commonwealth.
The speakers were prac-
tically unanimous tnat
uniformity was essential,
and that the States
couldn’t supply the ar-
ticle. Which is a good
deal as though the Cham-
ber had congratulated it-
self upon having knocked
a hole through the bot-
tom of the lifeboat, and
then discovered that it
was impossible to get
ashore on the hencoops.
The South Australian
Advances for Homes Act,
passed by the Labor Gov-
ernment last session, has
proved such a boon that
all the Capital set aside
for the purpose has ueen
used up, and a further
supply lias had to he
called for. The Govern-
ment advances four-fifths
of the money required to
build, and sinking fund
and interest combined doesn’t amount to as
much as a man would pay Private Enter-
prise in rent during the landlords present
outrageous bout of buccaneering.
THE INQUIRING CHILD AND THE MADDENED
PARENT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In the case Osborne v. the Commonwealth, the
High Court ruled that the Federal land-tax is valid,
and entered judgment for the defendants. -Traffic
News Item.
The public executioner in Sydney recently re-
signed.—Pathetic News Item.
Oh, why do you leap in the air, Papa?
Why do you leap in the air?
Why don’t you sit down on your chair, Papa?
Why don’t you sit down on your chair?
I want you to tell me a tale, Papa —
Oh, Papa, it’s wicked to swear —
You said that you would without fail, Papa !
Please, why do you leap in the air ?
Oh, why are you grinding your teeth, Papa?
Oh, why are you grinding your teeth?
You know they are false underneath, Papa !
You know they are false underneath 1
If the Labor Government died, Papa,
Would you send them a lovely white wreath?
' You seem to be shaking inside, Papa!
And why are you grinding your teeth?
Oh, why do you dance when you’re old, Papa?
Oh, why do you dance when you’re old?
Your feet are they dreadfully cold, Papa?
Are both feet so terribly cold?
Whenever you’re asked to a bail, Papa,
You always commence to scold.
But now you’ve waltzed twice up the hall, Papa.
Does that warm you up when you’re cold?
Please, why are you wringing my neck, Papa?
Oh, why are you ringing my neck?
Have you got to send someone a cheque, Papa?
Have you got to send someone a cheque?
Will they get a new hangman for you, Papa—
The old one is not now on deck?
Is my tongue all swelled-up and blue, Papa?
Pa! why are you wringing my neck?
N.S.W.
NATHANIEL LOBSTER.
BIG!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Oh, father, dear,” young Willie said (and it was
Empire Day),
“Please tell me why I wave the flag and why I shout
’Ooray !”
And father answered as he spat upon the fender’s
marge:
“You love the Empire, Willie dear, because it’s very
large.
“If you could bend your little back and carry bricks
all day,
And likewise carry bricks all night till you were
worn and grey,
And keep on humping bricks till you were old as
Pharaoh’s bones,
You couldn’t shift one-half the bricks the British
Empire owns.
“And also, if you took your spade and dabbled in the
mud,
And trained your children to the task, and all your
kindred blood,
And all their stout descendants with the shovel made
a spurt,
In forty centuries from now they’d still dig British
dirt.
“Within the British Empire there’s more warts upon
the face,
More wasps and wars and Wowsers than in any other
race;
In writs we hold the record; and our statisticians
claim
That the Empire’s snake-bite figures put our rivals
all to shame.
“The mighty British nation, even foemen have con-
fessed,
In blunders, bugs and Bibles is ahead of all the
rest.;
In navies and in niggers quite decisive is its lead ;
The British Empire, Willie dear, is very large in-
deed.”
So father helps the orators, who bid young Willie
note
How marvellous is Bigness, how magnificent is
Bloat;
And even in his slumbers little Willie won’t forget
The - gross Gargantuan Empire where The Sun Can
Never Set.
VICTORIA.
L.


<s6 e BECHSTEIN PIANOS
I vS
Ipvis'v.
RHt*<>
II
ifcs=s^
m.
a
’4W
vk
•N
L/
V
U
are used by all the great pianists of the
present day—no other piano can fully
satisfy their requirements.
Their Tone Quality is Perfect.
JOSEF HOFFHANN writes of them :
“The Bechstein Piano pos-
sesses greater poetry of tone,
and resembles the human voice
more than any other instru-
ment. It is the realisation of
my idea of a piano, and the
only one on which I can express
all I feel.”
MADAME CARRENO writes: —
“The Bechstein Piano is the
ideal of perfection, and, above
all other instruments, responds
to all demands of an artist.”
We stock these magnificent Pianos in both Grands and Uprights, and invite you to call
and inspect them, or to write for full particulars, Catalogues are Free for the asking,
SOLE AGENTS—
W. H. PALING <&. CO., LTD.,
And at Brisbane,
Newcastle and Toowoomba.
338 Georg'e Street, Sydney.
UNDER VICE-REGAL
PATRONAGE,
The Misses Isaacs,
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair-
workers & Dermatologists,
161 KING STREET, SYDNEY, between Elizabeth & Castlereagh Streets.
Transformations from £4/4/- Tails from 7/6. Puffs from 25/- set. Fringes from 7/6.
Telephone 2138 Central. COMBINGS MADE UP.
Country orders receive prompt attention.
Give your hair the nourishment it needs!
Ward off that
bald spot with
J.S.W. Hair Food
Ward off that
bald spot with
J.S.W. Hair Food
m
WM
9
1
iiiiMMM
HP
NINE out of ten men and women—men more particularly- give little thought
to the care of the hair until it begins to show the effect of neglect. When
the comb biings the hair out—when the hair becomes lank and dull—
when your friends begin to remark “ You’re going bald ! ” the importance of hair-
culture is realised.
Take time by the forelock—you, especially, who at present have a good head
of hair. Brush your hair frequently, and APTLY JOHN STRANGE WINTER
FOOD REGULARLY EVER\ DAY. It is essential that the hair must
have nourishment and attention if you would retain it.
If a bald spot has appeared, if your hair is falling out, or if you are troubled
with dandruff, start right in now to use the John Strange Winter Flair Food. It is
an effective remedy.
John Strange Winter NON-OILY Hair Food. Price 3/6 bottle;
post free, 4/=. Ordinary John Strange Winter Hair Food, 2/6 :
post free, 3/=
J.S.W. Dental Cream, J.S.W. Lakshmi Cream ; J.S.W. Lakshmi Lotion, J.S.W.
Creme Marquise; J.S.W. Poudre Marquise; J.S.W. Savon Marquise (Toilet); J.S.W.
Shaving Soap ; and J.S.W. Papier Marquise are all equally essential to the toilet.
ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES.
JOHN STRAN6E WINTER,
LONDON, PARIS, VIENNA.
SYDNEY: 82 PITT STREET.
Agencies at MELBOURNE: 414 Collins Street; ADELAIDE: Bowman Buildings.
IO9J WIH
Warmth and Comfort
■■ FARMER’S
PRESSING COWHS.
THE more quality you secure in a Dressing
Gown, the more warmth you get, and that
is the first consideration. Farmer’s
Dressing Gowns are made by the best manufac-
turers, and represent positively the last word in
sterling value.
In Blue or Green Plain Cloth ... Price 22/6.
In Check or Striped Tweeds— Prices 25/-,
27/6, 30/-, 35/-, 37/6
In Wool— Prices 40/-, 45/-, 47/6, 50/-, 55-/,
65/-, 70/-
In Camel Hair —Prices 63/- and 65/=
m
FARMER’S TRAVELLING OVERCOATS.
SUITABLE for TRAVELLING, DRIVING or MOTORING.
Double-breasted, Deep Collar.
In English Tweed Prices 50/- and 65/-
Wool Lined ... ... ... ... ... Price 84/-
Dark Grey Motor Coat, Leather Lined... ... Price £4/15-
English Tweed, with Detachable Leather Lining
Price 8 Guineas.
FARMER’S, Sydney.


ROWLAND’S
KALYDOR
FOR ™ SKIN
Produces soft, fair, delicate skin, heals all
cutaneous eruptions, and insures a lovely
delicate complexion to all who use it.
2/3, 4/6, of Stores and Chemists.
WILD AUSTRALIA.—SKUTHORP’S SHOW coming
to Brisbane at last. —The Greatest Buck jumping
Show in the World is that of SKLTHOIiP’S, where
some 60 head of Bucking Horses, Bullocks, Ponies
and Mules travel with the Show, and a number of
the World’s Greatest Horsemen, including that King
of the Saddle and Bridle, Lance Skuthorp. He who
repeated Adam Lindsay Gordon’s Leap, and rode
Martini’s BOBS to a standstill. The Proprietor of
the Show has rented the BRISBANE SHOWGROUND
for SATURDAY, JUNE 24. On that day the full
combination will perform. And there will be a £5O
prize for the Quickest Thrower and Tier of a Bul-
lock- —the American Cowboys against the Australian
Stockmen. Also, £lOO prize for the Best Buckjump
Rider in Australia (for men), and a £5O prize
for the Best Lady Buckjump Rider; and a £lO
prize for the Best Camp Rider; £5O for the
Quickest at Catching and Saddling and Riding an
unbroken Colt. The Proprietor intends to take his
Show all round the world. Horsemen and Horse-
women that can prove themselves good enough
to represent Australia on that day can be engaged at
a salary not less than £lO a week. All Letters,
G.P.0., Brisbane.
INDIGESTION, AND THE REMEDY.
The first essential to good health is sound
digestion. If, however, your food does not
digest and assimilate, it causes pain and
sickness, creating heartburn and flatulency,
palpitation, sour stomach, and inevitably
causes constipation, headache and nervous-
ness. That Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills
are a valuable remedy is well illustrated in
the following case.
“I am only too pleased to tell you that
I think Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are
a wonderful remedy for Indigestion,”
writes Mrs. Annie Birch, 10 Allen Street,
Mrs. A. Birch.
(From a photo.)
Pyrmont, Sydney.
“For years I was
subject to,severe
attacks, b‘ut re-
cently they have
become quite rare.
At times I had ex-
cruciating "pains
behind the shoul-
der blades, deep
feelings of de-
pression, and felt
entirely unable to
do my work. I
felt irritable and
out of sorts gen-
erally. I took
many kinds of
medicines, but un-
til I commenced
taking Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills the
attacks lasted for days. Only yester-
day I had a slight attack, having eaten
something that did not agree with me; but
I took a couple of the pills last night, and
to-day I feel splendid—without a vestige of
pain or discomfort, but with renewed, appe-
tite, and brighter disposition. This is how
the pills always act upon me, and I can
therefore conscientiously recommend them.”
First Quality Aerated Waters Made at 3d. per doz.
EASILY, QUICKLY, ECONOMICALLY.
THE “BANKER,”
A Money Maker for Hotelkeepers. Easy to Buy.
£lO Deposit secures delivery with an expert to
erect same. A few pounds a month pays the balance.
PRICE FROM *25-
THE NELSON CARBONATING CO., LTD.,
167 George Street (North), SYDNEY.
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brower by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents—RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH. KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Brewert and Offices :
Dowling Street, REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
First inter-State football match of the
season occurred on Saturday at Sydney Agricultural
Ground. It was a great day for the League, between
thirty-five and forty thousand enthusiastic followers
of the game being present, and fully one-third of
them belonged to the allegedly gentler sex. When the
teams faced, there was nothing to choose between
them in appearance, and an impartial spectator could
have bet his life on a very even game. But in foot-
ball apearanees go for nothing. The Queensland
League crowd were simply not in it. Yet, strangely
enough, the first score was registered by the visitors,
Brackenrigg booting a goal before the game was 10
minutes old. These two points seemed to rile the
’Walers, who immediately broke loose, gallop-
ing through and over the other mob, scored when
and how they liked. The contempt with which the
home team treated the visitors was ghastly; they
juggled the ball about apparently with the view of
making a holy show of the Queenslanders. And yet
it was an interesting game to follow. The passing
was easily the best ever shown on the ground, and
completely broke up the Queenslanders. The goal-
kicking of Messenger was great. Besides landing 10
goals off his own boot, he scored four tries, and, in
all was responsible for 32 points, or half of the total.
In an array of paladins he was the mightiest of them
all, his running, dodging, feinting, and tackling
being about the best he has ever shown. He was
evidently rubbing it in to the Sydney sporting
papers, which last week suggested that he be left
out. When the end came, N.S.W. had scored 65
points to 9.
* T- * *
In the Union Rugby competition Univer-
sity is at the top with 10 points, Newtown running
up with eight, followed by Western Suburbs and
Manly with 7 each. As all the Union teams are
colts," they started fairly even, and North Sydney is
the only club which has the distinction of losing all
five matches played. South Sydney met North Syd-
ney at Rushcutters Bay. The South team developed
a very decent pack ; for a time the Norths made an
excellent defence, but then crumpled up, and South
Sydney won by 8 to 3. At University Oval ’Varsity
found itself attacked by Western Suburbs. Per-
sistent line-kicking completely puzzled the students,
and resulted in long, dull spells. But when ’Varsity
did get hold of the ball, the men from the West
looked very sick, and the game ended in favor of
’Varsity by 24 to 3. West had failed to cross the
line, and its only points were from a penalty goal.
A feature of this match was that over 2000 specta-
tors looked on, and for a time the Union thought the
drought had broken. At Sydney Cricket Ground
Newtown met Eastern Suburbs, and the first half
saw them three all. In the second half Newtown’s
back machine was very much better than that of the
East, and Newtown won by 9 points to 3. The
Manly-Balmain upheaval was a very close thing. On
paper Manly was miles ahead of Balmain, but when
tlie numbers went up Manly had managed to squeeze
home by 8 to 6. Glebe and St. George played a
dull, uninteresting scrap, which Glebe won by 8 to 3.
The Australian Rulers put on two start-
ling games at their enclosed ground, Erskineville
Oval. The opening match was between East Sydney
and Newtown, both of which have the reputation of
being very fast. The attendance was good ; the play
was brilliant. East, attacking, for a time carried all
before it, and then suddenly froze. Newtown came
away in splendid style, and by quarter time was
leading by 27 points to 24. The second quarter saw
a regular turn-and-turn-about, but in each deal Easts
seemed to gain slightly. At half-time they were lead-
ing by 43 to Newtown’s 35. In the second quarter New-
town lost many points through over-eagerness. East de-
clined to get excited, but, nevertheless, Newtown
crept level, with 47 points each. Verjr little scoring
that quarter. When the final quarter commenced,
Fists came with a tremendous rush, and lost it at
the finish. Newtown then had a chance to score,
and failed miserably. With only a few minutes to
go, East was leading by one solitary point, and right
on the tick of time a Newtown forward, with one
last kick, registered a behind and made the score
equal—s 6 points all. The struggle between Y.M.C.A.
and Sydney on the same ground was terrific and in-
describable. At the end of the first quarter Y.M.C.A.
led by 3 goals 1 behind to Sydney’s 1 goal. Second
quarter saw the game grow faster still. But with all
the speed, Sydney was playing a distinct plan of
campaign, and, verily,, it had its reward. In the end
Sydney ran out winners by 52 points to 48, which,
in this game, is close indeed.
Saturday’s most cheerful League game
was that between South Melbourne and Richmond.
Skinner’s hirelings having not yet grasped the fact
that brute force is of little avail when there is a
strict referee around, tossed the game away after
having foreclosed upon it, and Richmond won by 62
to 54. Richmond, playing with much individual
brilliance, was a goal in arrears at half-time, but
had forced a 13-point lead when the lemons came
along. Then the hirelings, by rushes, got two goals,
and looked, as though they were in full blast for
their own. But disregard of the rules lost them
their advantage, and the yellow-and-black made a
last dash to save the game, and did it. Skinner is
understood to have once more spoken firmly to his
darlings. At Victoria Park, ’Wood, acting its old
foolish caper of taking things easily at first, found
Melbourne a tougher proposition than expected, and
was nine points behind at lemon-time. A “Colling-
wood finish,” however, added 15 points, while the
Red Legs added nil; so ’Wood won—49 points to 43.
The Saints, on their own ground, kept Carlton mov-
ing all the time, and lost a strenuous scrap by onjv
10 points—42 to Carlton’s 52. The Students were
at home to Fitzroy, and with the strongest available
team held their own till half-time, after which they
just faded out, and ’Roy won by 76 points to ’Var-
sity’s 42. Essendon went down to Geelong, and ad-
ministered a mild castigation—’Don 59, Sleepy Hol-
low 42.
i,i * * *
Only one Association game - promised excitement,
that between Brunswick and ’Scray, and it was
willing enough to satisfy the most bloodthirsty. The
umpire twice called a halt, and reminded the teams
they were not playing under the rules of the
old Marquis. The riot ended in favor of Brunswick,
with 61 to Footscray’s 49. P’ran downed ’Town
by 53 to 43, enough to swear by, but nothing to
sing about. North gave Brighton cold shivers by
totting up 95 points to 40. Northcote and Pres-
ton accepted their customary defeats in a contrite
frame of mind, ’Cote 42 to Port’s 60, and Preston
27 to Essendon’s 128. Still, this wasn’t the worst
doing of the day; Footscray Juniors dog-walloped
Brunswick ditto by 84 points to 0. That was
awful.
“S.S.”: Minister M’Bride has appealed to
Chief-Commissioner O’Callaghan for a report contain-
ing the best advice of the police for the suppression
of ruffianly conduct at Melbourne football matches.
I am surprised that the authorities have not long
since put a few pertinent questions to the police to
satisfy general inquisitiveness re the astonishing
blindness of John Hop when a footballer starts out
to cripple the Law and his opponent. I’ve seen police-
men looking on at conduct on the football field that
would have resulted in the prompt lumbering of any
street youth who so disported himself for half a tick.
The idea that the ’oofballer in action is a privileged
blackguard is eagerly entertained by J. Hop, whose
sympathetic attitude is in strong contrast to his
readiness to butt .in in the interests of humanity
when a boxing bout takes on an angry flush.
* , * * *
On tlie Parramatta River on Saturday the
brief and inglorious career of Frank Hagnev as a
sculler came to a sudden stop. In a race with Alt'
Felton for £5O aside, the ex-cyclist was donkey-
licked. Felton went to the front with a bound, and
stayed there till the end. Hagney made a valiant
chase of it, but never had a chance. Dick Arnst.
who was present, said “It was a terribly good race,”
and that Felton rowed like a veteran. Harry Floyd,
Arnst’s trainer, said Felton’s display astonished him.
Altogether there seem to be more than mere possi-
bilities about Felton.
* * * *
Five weeks ago Dick Arnst was challen-
ged by Harry Pearce to defend his championship of
the world, and £lOO was passed along as evidence
that Pearce was a true and proper person to chal-
lenge the champion. But, up to the present, no
articles have been signed. First of all Arnst was
waiting for his stake, and after some delay it was
said that it had been safely landed by a Maoriland
steamer. Still the articles were not signed, and
Arnst was reported to have said that he did not
despair of retaining his title. On Wednesday week
an appointment was made at the Royal Hyde Park
Hotel for the purpose of signing up. Pearce arrived,
but there was no trace of Arnst; it was said that,
feeling a slight chill, he had hurried back to his
training camp at Mortlake. Then the Pearce fol-
lowing went mad: “Arnst could not raise his
stake,” “Arnst was trying to side-step Pearce,”
“Arnst had seen some of the marvellous spins put up
by Pearce, and knew that he was as good as licked,”
etc. The chances are that the astute Richard is
angling for long odds.
“X ” : Although Dick Arnst cannot spare
time to clinch Harry Pearce’s challenge for the
world’s sculling championship, the burly Maorilander
still pursues the pigeon-butchering business. At the
N.S.W. Gun Club’s abattoirs last week, he “divided”
three sweepstakes. •
Two Parisian aviators had a curious
smash last Saturday. Loping along about 150 ft.
above the earth, they dashed into a hollow pipe in
the air, down which the aeroplane dropped like a
stone. Fortunately the pipe was narrower at the
bottom than at the top, and they escaped with a
broken leg each. The small aeroplane will never be
safe. Holes in the air and tubes that run down to
within a few feet of the earth render it necessary
to have great wing space, so that the machines may
safely traverse these air spaces, on the same prin-
ciple that a motor-car can safely cross a hole which
would spill a bicycle.
N.S.W. Bowling Association is getting no
better very fast, and last week President Raffan
and his officers got right out. Another secretary and
president have been appointed, and it is averred
that the game will not suffer in the slightest. But
confidence has been shaken —badly shaken.
* * * *
Australian professional cycling recognises
that it is in a bad way, and unless something ex-
tra galvanic happens the next development will be
the funeral. So on June 27 an effort will be
made to resurrect the Federal Cycling Council
when delegates from all the State bodies will fore-
gather in Melbourne. It will be the first meeting
of the Council for many years, and its object will
be to devise ways and means to import bright over-
seas stars, who will shed a glory ovet the, sinking
cause, attract fresh dollars, and bring new life.
But it is a dead hope. The only chance of pro.
cycling is to lie fallow for a few years.
On the other hand, amateur cycling is booming,
especially in N.S.W. On Saturday the Picton to
Ashfield 50-Mile Road Race attracted over 200
wheelers. The long-markers had it all their own
way, and collared the swag. The winner was R.
W. Page (llmin. 40sec.), who led from A. V.
Anderson (15mjn.) and A. C. Gray (14min. 30sec.).
Scratch rider L. A. .Walcott took fastest-time prize,
getting over the distance in 2hr. 7min. 54sec. Last
year hq also scored, the fastest-time prize with the
record dash of 2hr. lmin. 23sec. Handicapping is
a difficult job, but it certainly looks as though the
long starters will have to be clipped a little.
A freak car, a two-cylinder Leon-Pougeot
light voiturette with a bore of 80 millimetres and
a stroke of 280 millimetres (over 11 inches), has
been doing things, and impish things at that. The
flying half-mile was cut out in 24min. 24sec. ; 50
miles in 39min. 47see. ; 100 miles, 89min. 28sec.;
and 78 miles in the hour. A performance which in
that type of car bangs Banagher!
* * * *
Some time ago the English cycling press
clawed at all Australasian records because the Christ-
church Cycling Club had discovered that one of
its road events was short-distanced. It was not
the club’s fault, but the mistake of a sur-
veyor ; and when the Christchurch Club found it
out, it at once made the matter public. A similar
error has now occurred in England, but the cream
of the joke is that the offending club admits that
it knew its hundred miles course was really only
99j miles. As, however, a surveyor had estimated
the hills and corners would be sufficient to make
up the difference, the club is quite satisfied to adver-
tise the course a hundred miles one. Now what
about some of these fast English times?
Melbourne is shortly to have the fastest
racing track in Australasia for motor-cycles. £BOO
is being spent on remodelling and asphalting at the
Friendly Societies’ Ground, and it is believed that
when completed the track will carry a speed of well
over 70 miles an hour. As soon as the warm wea-
ther comes around there will be some hair-raising
runs, as a number of crack motor-cyclists have an-
nounced that they are out after records. Jake de
Rosier’s American times are: Flying mile, 41
l-ssee.; five miles, 3min. 28 l-ssec.; ten miles,
7min. 1 4-ssec; 25 miles, 17min. 44 3-ssec. ; 50
miles, 35min. 41 4-ssee. ; and 83 miles 135 yards
in the hour. So the Australian cracks are up
against something pretty sudden. The great Jake
himself will return from America to England via
Australia, and will probably be seen on the Mel-
bourne track.
The effete Englishman still holds the
world’s record for the all-day motor drive, in spite
of a desperate attempt made in America recently to
secure the record. The winning car, a Fiat, covered
1491 miles, and the second, a Cadillac, 1448 miles.
Both of these, wonderful runs as they were, pale
alongside S. F. Edge’s bewildering 1581 miles 1310
yards, which the Anglo-Australian put up on the
Brooklands track when that wonderful road was first
opened. #
Agar Wynne, big dog of the A .R.C., and
one-time Victorian Attorney-General, has taken on
a big task. He proposes to standardise the rules of
racing in each State. This means that he has to
read, mark, learn, and inwardly digest all the racing
rules of all the States, and then bring the things
into line. The quickest way would be to draft a
new code, label it the Australian Racing Rules, and
have done with it.
* * * *
The marvellous accuracy of the informa-
tion received by Christian Noses is beginning to
worry people. As Sydney Referee puts it: “A horse
may not run for months, but if at its reappearance
it is supposed to have any chance, the books are
generally prepared for it, and it is the same in any-
thing that, after shaping bad on a few occasions, is
expected to show improved form. It may open at
10 to one a dozen times, but at the thirteenth it
will be at a comparatively short price throughout. . .
The wonder is how they succeed in doing so in such
effective fashion.” Of course the secret is the book-
makers have an intelligence department, based on
treachery and bribery, which finds it cheaper to
spend a few pounds among jockeys and stable-boys
than to let the public have an occasional win.
Hard to take seriously the Melbourne
match between bind rum and Reece on even terms.
The Englishman is a pretty player, and some of his
art is distinctly inter-
esting, but the best re-
cords of the two men
stamp it as an unequal
match. Reece is not
even the best of the
English p la y e r s,
whereas Lindrum, on
figures, would be back-
ed to beat all the
world, bar his young
compatriot, George
Gray. The “discovery”
of the deadly losing
hazard off the red has
revolutionised b i 1 -
liards, and Gray and
Lindrum thus-far are
the pre-eminent leaders
of the revolution.
Against Lindrum’s oc-
casional great breaks
Reece can show nothing
of compensating
value.
FRED FINER UM,
AUSTRALIAN
BILLIARD
PLAYER, NOW
PLAYING
REECE (THE
ENGLISH
PLAYER), IN
MELBOURNE,
IN A GAME
16,000 UP.
The “bookies” are not quite defeated in
Maoriland yet, despite the recent stringent legisla-
tion. One well-known betting firm has issued its
business cards thus: “Skinnum and Fleesum, wool-
brokers,” and there is much indignation—apparently
on the ground that wool-brokers don’t shear the
lambs.
* » * *
Killed the other day, by a fall over a cliff,
the 25-year-old Liberator, about the best all-round
horse M.L. ever saw. He won the Grand National
Hurdles twice, Great Northern Steeple, Dunedin and
Wanganui Cups, and many other events on flat and
over sticks. Ilis most notable owner, Patsy Butler,
pre-deceased him by only a few weeks.
Queensland Turf Club’s Brisbane Cup
meeting, the Northern State’s principal horse carni-
val, was the most successful for some years, in
spite of wet weather on the opening day. Prize
money amounted to £5340, and 39 owners got a
share of it. W. R. Munro, whose Persian Jewel
won the Moreton Handicap and ran second in the
Brisbane ■ Cup and St. Leger, was top score with
£BO5 ; but John Finnie, “the father of the Queens-
land turf,” was close up with £BOO, the result of
Black Paint’s victor in the Cup. McCrimmon,
with four wins, was the most successful rider, and
N. Wood, a Sydney jockey, was first past the post
three times. #
In the V.A.A.A.’s fifteenth 5-mile Second
Teams Race, on Saturday, no less than 276 runners
competed. As a spectacle the episode was pleas-
ing, but as a race it lacked excitement, young
Russell H. Watson (Malvern Harriers), the Public
Schools mile and half-mile champion, winning easily
by 200 yards, in 30min. 24sec. Time is good, but
not up to the performances of G. B. Blake, in ’99,
or G. C. Stillwell, S. G. Hollow, and M. O. McEl-
hinney in ’O7, ’OB, and ’lO respectively.
The inter-University sports meeting,' on
the new ’Varsity Oval in Adelaide, was as easy a win
for Melbourne as it used to be in Nigel Barker’s
time for Sydney. J. L. Davis is the Melbourne
champion; he won the hundred, hurdles, and long
jump, leaving the quarter to his colleague, footballer
Ilartkopf. Sydney had the high jump (Rofe) and
the mile (Mac Neil and Arnold) pretty well to itself,
and Adelaide could only manage seconds and thirds.
Result: Melbourne, 14 points, Sydney 5, Adelaide, 2.
Maorilander W. F. Trembath justified bis
challenge by easily accounting for A. B. Postle in
the 440yds." world’s championship at Rockhampton
(Q.) on Saturday, winning by syds. in 50 l-ssec.
Postle led most of the way, but in the last 50yds.
the youthful Maorilander outpaced the veteran.
Trembath will now pack his. shoes and rush towards
England in search of gold and glory.
The Daily Mail Empire Cup was this
year captured by Wellington (M.L.) Suburbs with the
extraordinary tally of 824 points. This is the same
score with which East London (S’Africa) captured
the trophv in 1908. The runners-up this year
were the "Australian Rifles (Sydney) and the Ibis
Rifle Club of London, who both notched 816. About
700 teams and clubs shot for the coveted utensil,
so the Maorilanders achieve considerable fame by
their win.
Francis Birtles and his cinematographic
mate report progress from Cunnamulla, about 120
miles north of Bourke. The roads, it seems, are in
a horrible state owing to recent heavy rains. They
are likely to work cross-country to Brisbane before
starting for the Northern Territory.
Yankee automobilist Robert Burman has
been at it again. It is not so long since he estab-
lished new figures for the world’s flying mile record,
when he covered the 1760yds. in 26min. 12sec., equal
to over 138 miles per hour. His latest exploit was
on Florida’s wonderful speedway, the Ormond-Day-
tona beach, where his big Benz car whizzed over the
hard, wet sand in 25.45ec., equal to nearly 142 miles
per hour. At the same time he covered the flying
kilometre (1093yd5.) in 15.8 sec. This easily beats
aeroplaning.
liow are the mighty fallen! Jack John-
son is. actually considering the offer of a big guar-
antee from the Mclnstoush for a 20-round fight with
Bombardier Wells. How much Johnson is to receive for
licking his fellow-bruiser is not stated. When the
news hit Johnson he scratched his head and said:
“Waal, I guess there ought to be something doing.
I ain’t got no motor-cars, and I ain’t got no aero-
plane, but I’m not down to the last dollar yet. I
guess I’ll ponder over it, and let you know early.”
“Petramos” : This is in justice to Waddy,
who beat Tom Dunn at Adelaide. The ring at that
fight (of which, by the way, I was promoter) was
not slippery, as “Tykes” suggests (B. 18/5/Y1). It
sufficed Hughie Mehegan and Jim Armstrong a night
or two previously, and Waddy and the referee were
satisfied. Had Snowy Baker refereed the mill, Dunn
would assuredly have gone out on a foul very early
for going down without being hit. Dunn got back
some glory the other night by beating Bob Rollo,
who was helpless throughout, and showed none of
the clever footwork that made Turner remark to the
crowd on an occasion when the two met: “I can beat
this fellow if I can catch him. Somebody bring
me a bicycle.”
Broken Hill (N.S.W.) has come to a pro-
per apreciation of the importance of things,
and will, in the future, pay its football um-
pires £2 per match. That much the referee
is certain of; exactly how many hatpins,
curses, kicks and blows is problematical; and
even at £2 per afternoon it is doubtful if the
game is worth the risk. The Association might at
least have chucked in an armor suit and an acci-
dent insurance policy.


THE “MOTA”
( Regd.).
ttPitif
:'S:R-
The “ MOTA ” HAT is conceded everywhere to
be the standard in style, quality and workmanship.
It is easily ihe most comfortable of hats, and
equally suitable for town or country wear, for
busines- or holidays, for walking, driving' or riding,
for week days or Sundays, for wet days or fine days,
for warm weather or cold weather.
The “ MOTA ” is THE hat that suits every head
and every occasion. Stocked by leading houses
throughout Australia, in all fashionable colors.
PRICES, 7/6 to 12/6.
If unobtainable in your district, write us direct.
THE AUSTRAL HAT MILLS, LIMITED,
ABBOTSFORD, MELBOURNE.
GUARANTEED 2 YEARS.
20-30 h.p. Chalmers
SL 49O
s=Seater
Touring Car.
40-hp. THOMAS,
6=Cy Under 7-Seater.
ROY W. SAND FORD,
181 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Also at 105 EXHIBITION STREET, MELBOURNE.
Cost-Reducing
Machines.
Sagar’s Woodworking Machines em-
body every modern improvement for
increasing output,
and are solidly
built by British
workmen. You
can buy cheaper
machines than
Sagar’s, but would
it not be worth
your while to pay
the small dif-
ference in
price to se-
cure the life
and se r -
vice insured
by such
High-Grade,
Up-to- date
Machines ?
SOLE AGENTS:
Thomas
McPherson & Son
582=588 Collins St., Melbourne.
Ask for Catalogue M 5, Post Free!
PAY £1 for Black and White
’ ’ Comic Sketches accepted. No hack-
neyed topics wanted, but bright, clean humor.
Handiest sizes about \Y 2 in. deep by 3m. wide, or
6in. wide by 4m. deep. Rejections promptly
returned. Editor:
“AUSTRALASIAN TRAVELLER,”
189 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
“ LINSEED COMPOUND.”— The “Stockport
Remedy ” for Couirhs & Colds. Of 40 years’ proven efficacy.
//A
<3^
/
o
55
The product of
one source only
More miles on ** Shell" than
on any other*
Its perfect purity lhat'9
the point'
The Permanent
Removal of
Superfluous Hair.
A Lady Will Give You Her Secret Free.
1
For years I have searched for a simple and satis-
factory way to removei superfluous hair from the skin
so that it would not return. Experiments proved to
me that the various pastes, powders, depilatories,
electrical appliances, etc., now on the market, were
often injurious, and not lasting in their effects.
At last I discovered a plan which succeeded in pro-
ducing marvellous permanent results where all others
failed. A fashionable Parisian lady, - who followed
my advice, says:—-“My, face is now soft and smooth,
and no one would ever think it had been disfigured
by a growth of superfluous hair.” Others write: —
“It seems too good to be true.” Well, the test will
tell. No matter how much or how little superfluous
hair is on your face, neck, arms or body, I am con-
fident that you can now remove it permanently and
with perfect safety. I will send full information re-
garding the secret of my discovery absolutely free to
every woman who writes at once, but this Offer is
limited to a short time only, so do not delay if you
wish to benefit free. Address—KATHRYN B.
FIRMIN (Dept. 631 B), 85 Great Portland Street,
London, W. (Eng.), and you will receive full par-
ticulars by return post in a plain sealed envelope.
c
HEAP, Second-Hand 15BrakeH.P.
TANGYE GAS ENGINE,
IN GOOD ORDER.
Apply Manager, “BULLETIN” OFFICE,
214 George Street, Sydney.
A MONTHLY GUIDE for everything Aus-
. tralian. That’s Thk Lone Hand. “A
marvellous sixpenn’orth ! ”
Legal Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
1 NEW SOUTH WALES. MATRIMONIAL
CAUSES JURISDICTION. No. 7677. Between
ANNIE MAY CREAIGON GIBBS Petitioner and
ALEXANDER GIBBS Respondent. To ALEXANDER
GIBBS late of Bourke. TAKE NOTICE that the said
ANNIE MAY CREAIGON GIBBS has commenced a
suit against you in this Honorable Court and is ap-
plying for a divorce on the ground of (1) That you
have without just cause or excuse wilfully deserted
her and without any such cause or excuse left her
continuously so deserted during three years and up-
wards. (2) Adultery. And take notice that you are
required to enter an appearance to the said suit at
the proper office of this Honorable Court on or be-
fore the First of September 1911 and in the event of
your not doing so within the time limited or ob-
taining further time the Petitioner will proceed and
the suit be heard and determined vour absence not-
withstanding. A copy of the Petition filed herein
may be had on application to the undersigned free
of charge. Dated this 30th May 1911. ROBERT
WILLIAM FRASER, Solicitor for Petitioner, Post
Office Chambers. 114 a Pitt Street, Sydney. For the
Registrar (Signed) JOHN GEO. LEARY (1.5.).
Chief Clerk. '
Rigney Shoes for Men !
:ire made by experienced workmep, from materials of the highest quality,
and in the most distinctive styles.
Rigney Shoes appeal particularly to business and professional men
who require something exclusive in high-grade footwear.
The boot illustrated is a Patent Kid Lace Boot, dull Calf Kid Leg,
with Patent Lace Facing, walking or dress wear.
Prices, 275. 6d. and 30s.
Write to=day for a copy of our New Catalogue.
The Rigney Shoe Co.,
“The Exclusive Men’s High-Grade Shoe Stores,”
305 George Street, Sydney,
and 179 a Pitt Street, Sydney.
Please note that the new shop in Pitt Street
is under the personal supervision of Mr.
F. C. Rigney, the sole and only proprietor
of the above firm.
A.M. L. 8 F. CO. Ltd.
(Australian, Mercantile, Land 8 Finance Co., Ltd.)
‘ *♦♦ FOR .♦ .
Top Prices. Quick Returns.
Liberal Advances When Required.
Wool, Produce and Grain
Salesmen,
B. B. ALLEN,
Wool & Produce
Manager.
SYDNEY
JAMES KIDD,
Manager.
Also at Melbourne (El Brisbane
THERE’S NO VIBRATION IN
A “B. & B.” MOTOR CYCLE.
We manufacture these motor-cycles ourselves. There’s no doubt about ohr
knowledge when we say they are the best machines you can get for £55. Tin
engine is a J.A.P., while the frame is a medium weight—some 351 b. or 40lb.
lighter than the usual type of heavy-duty cycle.
Call and see one. if you cannot get in during the day-time our Pitt Street depot is open till 9 p.m. on
Fridays. Call then.
Bennett & Barkell, Ltd.,
AGENTS FOR THE FAMOUS
Largest Cycle Building House in the State,
234 Pitt Street, and Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY
“TRIUMPH” MOTOR CYCLES.
“ Snakebite ” : I’m sorry to have to do it,
but experience forces me to agree with a recent
writer in The Bulletin who 1 darned the working
man’s wife for not “ living white.” She is mainly
responsible for the success of the gimcrack, yellow-
agony furniture on the market, and in other lines
also she gives solid patronage to the black,
brindle or piebald trader. And you don’t need to
go to Queensland to find it out either. Hundreds
of wealthy Syrian, Hindu and other colored
hawkers all over Australia, if they could be coaxed
or flogged into a truthful statement, would prove
that practically the whole of their business is done
with the wife of the white worker. I had a good
example of it on a big construction job in north
Victoria that lasted for some years. Most of the
men had their wives in the camps, which were
scattered 20 miles through the ranges, and were a
happy hunting-ground for the Hindu and his kind.
There were two decent men who used to run
waggons through, loaded with all sorts of drapery
and other merchandise, but they couldn’t make
headway against the niggers. I don’t, know why,
because they sold their goods just as cheaply; but
the opinion I’ve formed is that the white woman
has not the natural aversion to the colored man
that is so strong in the white man.
M
U
HL
'm
$ \ -
"x
\ \
V £s
\
w*
VKI
w,
syip
# ll( 'it f
Vi 7 ,■ .
you drive
a Car shod with
en
DUNLOP
MOTORTYRES
you feel safe, and with good reason, for
the high quality of material and work-
manship in these Reliable Tyres ensures
a feeling not only of security, but of
satisfaction in getting such good results.
You can have a big mileage any
time by fitting your Car with
“Dunlops.” Try them!
PRICE LIST ON APPLICATION.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO., All States and N.Z.


A. SAUNDERS m POSTAGE
On all These Beautiful
Silverware Goo ds.
YOUR ORDER WILL BE PROMPTLY AND PER-
SONALLY ATTENDED TO, CAREFULLY PACKED,
AND SATISFACTORILY RECEIVED.
A. SAUNDERS.
PICKLE JAR, Pure Silver-plated, Nickel Sil-
ver, AI Quality, Finest English Cut Class,
85/-
A. SAUNDERS.
EGC FRAME ANr SPOONS, Pure Silver-Plated
Nickel Silver, Al Quality, Richly Fluted, Gilt
Lined Cups and Spoons. Embossed Base.
40/.
iiiwmi
•**
m
wi
V T -*» •*?
si as
rvvs
UPS
v¥« v.m jr
NOT
K
r
A. SAUNDERS.
HEART SALT CELLARS, Pure Silver Mount, and
Spoons, Fine Cut Glass Bowls, in Silk Lined Case.
13/0.
5E
m
' •r ,'f v i?
A. S VENDERS.
CRUET, SIX BOTTLE, Pure Silver-Plated, A 1
Quality, Crystal Cut Glass Bottles, with Shield,
701-
A. SAUNDERS.
DOUBL" PRESERVE DISH, Pure Silver-Plated
Nickel Silver. Solid Base, Fancy China Dishes.
12/6
Better Quality, 15/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
REVOLVING SOUP OR STEAK DISH, Pure Sil-
ver Plated, A 1 Quality, Handsomel” Engraved and
Embossed Handles and Feet.
180/
lil
A. SAUNDERS.
CREAM JUG, Pure Sil-
ver-plated on Nickel
Silver, Hand Engraved,
15/0
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-plated,
SERVIETTE RING,
Richly Engraved, Satin
Finish,
2/-
SPECIAL DINE.
A. SAUNDERS.
PRESERVE DISH, Pure Silver-
plated, Handsomely Decorated China
Dish, with Server,
TEAPOT, Pure Silver-plated, A 1 Quality,
Hand-engraved and Fluted, 30/‘-
A. SAUNDERS.
BREAKFAST CRUET,
Pure Silver Plated Nickel
Silver, Crystal Glass
Bottles,
10/6.
A. SAUAOERS.
SUGAR SCUTTLE, Pure
Silver-plated, A 1 Quality,
Handsomely Hand Em-
bossed,
A. SAUNDERS.
(ARD RECEIVER, Pure Silver-
Plated, A 1 Quality, Handsome
Floral Design,
15/6
SPECIAL VALUE,
15/6.
SPECIAL VALUE
15/G
A. SAUNDERS.
SUGAR AND CREAM STAND,
Pure Silver-plate Nickel Silver, A 1
Quality, Highly Burnished.
35/.
WE SEND
CATALOGS
OF EACH
DEPART-
MENT,
POST
FREE,
ANYWHERE
MENTION
WHICH
ONE IS
REQUIRED
WHEN,
ORDERING.
A. SAUNDERS.
CAKE BASKET, Pure Silver-Plated
Burnished or Satin Finished, Either
Finish.
20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
SAUCE BOAT, Pure Silver-plated
Silver, Richlv Embossed,
30/
HONEY JAR and
SERVER, Silver-
plated Top, Crystal
Glass Jar,
A. SAUNDERS.
SUGAR BASIN, Pure
Silver-Plated Nickel Sil-
ver, Richly Embossed,
Gilt Lined.
30/.
A. SAUNDERS.
HOT WATER JUG,
Pure Silver • Plated,
Richly Engraved and
Eluted,
BREAD SERVER, Solid Silver, Richly En-
graved and Embossed, in Silk-lined Case,
Tin. long, 20/-
BISCUIT BARREL,
Pure Silver - Plated
Mounts, Hand Painted
Floral Chi'”' 20/.
A. SAUNDERS
BUTTER DISH, Pure Silver-
Plated Nickel Silver, A 1
Oualicv, Cut Glass Dish.
A. SAUNDERS.
HOT WATER KETTLE and STAND, Pure
Silver-plated, A 1 Quality, Rustic Stand,
Richly Embossed,
40/-
A. SAUNDERS.
SPECIMEN TUBE, Two-Branch Daffodil Design,
Pure Silver-Plated, Satin Finish, Gilt Lined.
12/6
rSNOOHaBVOHET
A. SAUNDERS.
JAM SPOON and BUTTER KNIFE, Pure Silver-
plated. Handsomely Engraved, in Silk-lined Case,
15/6
A. SAUNDERS. .
FERN POT, Pure Silver-plated on \Vhite Metal,
Beautifully Embossed, 4jin. High,
12/6
A. SAUNDERS.
BREAKFAST PLATE COVER, Pure Silver-plated,
Hand Engraved, Fern Design. Size, 8 inches.
30/
A. SAUNDERS
SALAD BOWL AND SERVERS,
Glass, Pure Silver-Plated Mounts.
50 /•
Fine Crystal Cut
JEWELLER,
LOQc
k MAKER A
Ta
}
SYDNEYS LEADING JEWELLER.
807.809.au.813.815.817.GE0RGE ST. (Opposite Railway Station) SYDNEY,N.S.W.
SILVERSMITH
t0 HSULT//y e j
koPTICIAN./


CAIRNS.
The Great Winter Pleasure
Trip to Sunny Queensland
ft*:
'
a®
SEEN
THROUGH
A CAIRNS
TUNNEL.
by Modern
Inter-State
Steamships.
SMOOTH WATER
SPRING-LIKE CLIMATE.
Up-to-Date and Comfortable
Steamships.
■
. - *....v .*
' ; - ji
-;i ■'*
” Z■> . •< 1 r'l-**'* ?«*.s**’
*>,/ * r #§&** ~- *rf*-
ii
SB ;,
Vt? ;■ •
fe: .*« . r j< 'fc&V -
fy4, V
o'Aiiv.'K'r 1
V ‘ ‘ • %
/•••-
#
Vt -y ,
BARRON GORGE.
MR. DONALD McDONALD (the well-known writer)
describes the trip as follows: —
** I the greater part of the journey on the Queensland coast the steamer runs between the
Great Barrier Reef and the mainland, making it one of the smoothest of the sea trips of Aus-
tralasia. The route is dotted with picturesque islands, covered with foliage strange to
southern eyes, and the boat is ever rounding headlands, streaming into fine bays and estuaries. The
famous Whitsunday Passage, between Mackay and Bowen, is extremely picturesque.”
CAIRNS
is picturesquely situated, has a healthy
climate, and the temperature in winter
seldom falls below 50°. First-class
hotel accommodation at Cairns and
Kuranda (Barron Falls) can be
obtained at a reasonable tariff, and the
fishing at Cairns is excellent. A trip
to the Barron Falls and gorgeous
scenery about that part of North
Queensland should not be missed.
For Fares and all Particulars
.. . apply to ...
HOWARD SMITH GO. LTD
*»»»**s
-7
7m.
m
sa
,
*
i
mi
%
m
raa
i
- REGULAR &
FREQUENT SAILINGS
VICTORIA,
■
an< * ai P or;
Ll M TED
V
ittl
H!
HgllTOMEimMW—■:
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP GO. LTD.
AUSTRALASIAH UHITED STEAM NAVIGATION CO. LTD.


A
DYSPEPSIA
PAINS AFTER EATING
HEADACHES, LANGUOR,
CONSTIPATION
Dyspepsia, pains after eating,
headaches, biliousness, constipa-
tion, that fagged-out feeling, and
similar ailments are only possible
when there is some disorder of
the stomach, liver or bowels.
To restore these organs lo
working order, and thus rid your-
self of all such troubles, take a
few doses of Mother Seigel’s
Syrup daily, after meals, and you
will soon feel fit ard well again.
This herbal tonic has no equal in
in the world as a sure and swift
stomach and liver tonic. In
thousands of cases, it has cured
after all else has failed. Try it!
YIELD TO MOTHER
SEIGEL’S
SYRUP
Made of roots, barks, and leaves.
TShe
“Boulevard
The Latest
and
Smartest.
i>
V
Will not
slip at heel.
PRICES—
-14/6, 18/6 &21|-
Pumps and low-cut Oxfords are the fashionable
Shoes for Women’s wear. The great objection to
pumps in the past has been that they would slip
off the heel.
THE “BOULEVARD,”
an entirely new style, is so cut that it cannot
slip. It is decidedly smart, and we guarantee it
to stay where it belongs.
Prices 14/6, 18/6 and 21/-
Postage in Victoria, 9d. ; other States, 1/- extra.
Gazcka Shoe Paste, in Black and
Brown. Large Tins 6d.
Write for our Booklet “ Shoelight.”
LEEMINGS,
109 Swanston Street, Melbourne;
257-259 Bourke Street, Melbourne;
303 Chapel Street, Prahran ;
1 & 3 Errol Street, Nth. Melbourne.
A MARVELLOUS ADVANCE IN MEDICAL SCIENCE.
SAMOL,
The New Treatment for Rheumatism,
Gout, Sciatica, Lumbago, etc.
IMMEDIATE RELIEF OF PAIN.
“SAMOL” is an ointment for the treatment of Rheu-
matism, Gout, Lumbago, Sciatica, etc., affording imme-
diate relief from pain in the above cases, as also in cases
of Neuralgia, To thache, Sprains and Burns. It further
allays inflammation and irritation in Eczema, Stings,
Chilblains. Insect Bites, etc.
When “ SAMOL” is applied to a painful part the pain
will be relieved.
“ SAMOL ” is prescribed in most hospitals in Austria-
Hungary by the leading Medical Professors and Physi-
cians on the Continent.
“SAMOL” is sold at 3s. 9d. and 6s. per tube, and can
be ordered through all chemists or obtained post free
direct from the Wholesale Agent, H. A. GODDARD, 96a
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE, or 194 AHCKERY’S
CHAMBERS, 82 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. [2
AREME LA FRANCE.
FRENCH LIQUID COSMETIC.
Wholesale:
An Exquisite Lotion for Beau-
tifying: and giving Tone and
Brilliance to the Com-
plexion. It is most
beneficial to those
whose skin is show-
ing a tendency to
become livid or dis-
colored. It softens
a hard, dry skin
Perfectly harmless
to the most delicate
skin. Price 2/6,
Posted 3/- Obtain-
able from MADAME
LEIGH, Ladies’ Hair-
dresser and Hairworker,
23 The Block Arcade,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
DUERDIN AND SALISBURY, Melbourne.
“ LINSEED COMPOUND ” for Coughs
Colds. Relieves Asthma and difficult breathing.
and
SPALDING GOLD MEDAL
Are the most correctly modelled and highly-
finished clubs ever turned out by any manu-
facturer, and whether driver, brassie or iron,
each has been selected with the greatest care
from the playing clubs of the most celebrated
•amateurs and professionals.
Every head is cut from a clear block of
either Dogwood or Persimmon, and the irons
have all hand-forged heads, hammered on our
own forges at Putney Wharf, London. Every
shaft is specially selected from the finest sun-
dried, split Hickory obtainable, and only
the most experienced workmen are engaged
to make up these clubs.
Prices : Drivers or Brassies, 10/6 ; Irons, 9/=
All goods bearing the Spalding Trade
Mark are Guaranteed.
From all the better dealers, or
GOLF
CLUBS
Model o—Driver or Brassie
A. G. SPALDING & BROS, of Australasia Ltd.
228 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
THERE IS NOWHERE SO GOOD AS
THE TARRANT,
Melbourne’s
Big Garage.
?■
WE REPRESENT IN VICTORIA
Fiats, Fords, F.N.’s, Mercedes,
Commer Commercial Cars, De Dion’s,
Argyles, Rovers,
AND
The “ Mea ” Magneto, the Leader
of Ignition.
Repairs, Accessories, Tyres, Oils, Gears, at Lowest Prices.
TARRANT MOTORS PROPRIETARY LTD.,
104-112 RUSSELL STREET, MELBOURNE.
COUCHS
For Coughs of
all kinds Freeman’s
—the' Original—Chlorodyne brings quick and sure relief. It stops
the trying night cough, enabling the sufferer to secure restful sleep.
In cases of Influenza, Bronchitis, Asthma, and other Chest complaints
FREEMAN’S effects the most gratifying results. 1 I.J, /9&4 ; 6 per bottle.
Used by Doctors all over the World. Refuse imitat ons, which
cannot possibly possess the wonderful healing powers of Freeman’s.
If your chemist
is out of stock,
order a bottle,
he can quickly
get it
r
is
TRADE
MARK
FREEMAN'S
CHLORODYNE
/
/
%
Royal
Mothers
use
Ashton & Parsons*
Infants* Powders
for the
Little Princes and
Princesses
/ during the time of
/ teething and for fret-
fulness and the many
ailments common to infancy
Powders Recommended by H.R.H. THE PRINCESS OF HOHENLOHE.
VON-REUX LEBbN, Marshall of the Court to H.R.H. the Duke of SaxeCoburg,
Duke of Albany, Winter Palais, Gotha, writes: —“ With thanks for your sending Infants’
Powders, I have the honour to let you know that the Powders are recommended
by H.R.H. The Princess of Hohenlohe, for my own children.’’—January n, 1910.
ASHTON & PARSONS’
INFANTS’ POWDERS
are guaranteed to be perfectly harmless —they cool the gums—comfort the child—produce
a natural, calm, refreshing sleep- render teething quite easy —prevent pain and disorder-
are pleasant to the taste—are mild and gentle in action—may be given to the youngest and
most delicate babe—and there is no possible objection to their frequent and continued use.
Supplied by Royal Command to—
H I M. THE DOWAGER EMPRESS OF RUSSIA
H.RH. THE DUCHESS OF FIFE
H.RH. THE CROWN PRINCESS OF ROUMANIA
H.I.H. THE GRAND DUCHESS OLGA OF RUSSIA
H.R H. PRINCE CAROL OF ROUMANIA
H.R.H. PRINCESS ALEXANDER HOHENLOHE
WP* Ashton fi? Parsons’ Infants’ Powders are guaranteed to be harmless
Price in Great Britain, Boxes, containing 20 Powders, x/i|; 60 Powders, 2/9;
100 Powders, 4/6. To be obtained at Chemists and Stores throughout the World.
PROPRIETORS:—ASHTON & PARSONS, LIMITED, LONDON, E.C., ENGLAND.
WAVERLEY FOUNTAIN PENS
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE
:: FREE
DIFFER FROM ALL OTHERS BY REASON OF
THE ELASTICITY AND PERFECTION OF THE
GOLD WAVERLEY NIB. IT DOES NOT TIRE THE
HAND AS DO THE STUBBORN LIFELESS NIBS
IN ORDINARY FOUNTAIN PENS. THE FLOW OF
INK IS FAULTLESS. ' ::
; SOLD BY ;
STATIONERS
AND
; DEALERS :
Wholesale Agent: ROBERT HUTTON, 321 Flinders Lane, Melbourne
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
A’o notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Naine and address must appear on MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted, whether sent by post or handed
in; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps
(of any State) accomvany.
Ballina: (1) The actual performance is
photographed. (2) Dunno; should say about one-
fifth of the t0ta1.... Owen Deed: Trifle not handled
brightly enough Student Aforementioned : Good
par.; but it would probably cost us a bit in shark-
fees. ... G.P.C.: We’ve seen him blind-drunk, but
never knew his vision to be otherwise affected....
Red Hanky: Humorous idea, but too crudely handled.
.... Maorilander: Don’t know the address of ex-
cliampion shearer Ewen Cameron. Anybody oblige?
. ...G.A.8.: Good item; but newspaper clip of the
report should be sent in such a ease. .. .Hellerive:
The tribute to the travelling friend :
The friends of Mr. Smithson
Are invited one and all
To celebrate his send-off
At the Australian Hall.
He’s going to Old England
Far o’er the bounding foam.
And his absence will be sorely missed
By his loved ones at home.
... .C.M. (W.A.) : Sorry not up to print standard.
. ...8.P.: Very clumsy. One cry:—
1 wish tiiat you in raging sea
Were struggling, death in sight,
I’d stake my soul to rescue thee,
For love would give me might.
We can hear the loved one muttering vindictively:
“Oh, would it! If ever he asks me to walk on a
lonely pier with him, I’ll scream for help right
away !”. .. .D.R.McI.: Sweetly commonplace rhymes.
.... D.S.J.: Usual simple bush rhyme, with one
quaintly original touch:- —
Thev have lost their bullock-driver and the mate they
loved so well.
No more he’ll muster bullocks or listen for a bell,
And no man knows the sorrow that every man there
feels,
Still in fancy they can hear (him) ’mid the groan-
ing of the wheels.
. ...T.V.T.: An old line. Afraid you had better sky
the towel Rhys: Not enough skill M.F.G.:
Unsuitable.. . .J.A.D.: Must decline to mourn with
y0u....1v. Lalion: Too labored... . A.C.: Dog-chris-
tening verse terrible.... T.G.: Cheerful, rough-hewn
bush verse full of dingoes, ’possums, wool and strong
drink. Too splintery to u5e....R.J.: Careful, aver-
age work. Try one of the weeklies with it.
R.H.E.: Not enough steam... .H.P.C.: This paper
thanks you for calling it valuable, and regrets to
say that it can’t say the same about the poem....
M.D. (W.A.) : Very poor treatment, M.D.! It is a
case for a specialist C.0.P.: Mechanical. Might
have been produced by an internal-combustion
rhyming machine and a pint of petrol... .Narruc:
Poem as pale as the ink. . . .Harper M.: We will pass
on the glad news:—
Of all my rivals I was rid.
“Ah, does Rose love me now?” I cried,
“Say, does she love me now?”
She did !
Glad to hear it. When is the wedding to be?....
Hannibal: Furious and disjointed. Stop fuming for
a moment and tell us what it is all about
A.8.C.: You don’t carry enough guns to sink those
galleons. .. .Mick M.: “They will cease their ape-
like jeering when they feel our swords careering
through their weazand spare-framed carcase.” Well,
if that doesn’t discourage them nothing wi11....
C.A.G.: Standard rapturous love-poem. Quality—
vague and mild. No. 4728. (Please quote catalogue
number when ordering.).... 8.E.P.: Neither worth
while... .F.G.S. : Amiable fumbling verse with a
couple of duplicated rhymes. .. .11.G.J.: Regret all
unsuitable. .. .L.M.: Sentiments excellent, but treat-
ment just ordinary. Respectfully declined... .Abori-
ginal: That pfeller song no good. .. .Robert D.: It
fails gracefully; better treatment might have saved
it....C.M. (Sydney): Regret sample set of verses
are below print level. Afraid it would be no use
forwarding rest of batch York: It rambles, and
never succeeds in being interesting. .. .X.L.: Liable
to be misunderstood. For instance:—
He was a good and decent man ;
A better I do not know ;
I see him in the camp-fire’s smoke.
And now he’s gone below—
Deep down below!
Not too far, please! 8.G.: Dull. You have a
deadly knack of automatically stringing threadbare
phrases—“regaining my composure,” “his mates
were one and all agreed,” “he was justly, proud of
himself,” “a . cruel fate intervened,” “until we are
acquainted with all the facts,” “in support of my
contentions,” “they were soon on the best of terms.”
Are you a daily paper leader-writer?. .. .M.E.8.:
It promises—but not too hard J. Mersey: “‘Ah,’
she cried, ‘it has come at last! You have spoken !
You love me!’ She hid the knife in the folds of
her dress; a thin stream of gore stole across the
floor. Her husband was slowly bleeding to death.
She turned to Montague. ‘Take me!’ she cried.
‘Take me, for I am free!’ ‘She lies!’ said a
weak but terrible voice.” Oh, bother! Why couldn’t
he hurry up with his bleeding? Eye-witness:
You saw with your own eyes the charred bodies of
the bushrangers Dan Kelly and Steve Hart pulled out
1 of the ruins of Mrs. Jones’s pub at Glenrowan;
\ wherefore you suspect that the yarn that Dan is
| now writing an autobiog. is grossly exaggerated,
j WeTe inclined to think so too.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CONTRIBUTORS.
i S.N.R.: Not good enough as a drawing; and the
gag is too weak to totter past the basket N. 8.1.:
Junis Poort, W. Car., A.G.: Fruit of the old chestnut-
tree... .R.E.R.: Had the bad luck to bump better
drawings on the same subject... .T.J.M.: Too ob-
scure. .. .E.M.C., A Greenhorn, X.0.N., Dumnorix,
Whoa, A.R.P.: Unsuitable. .. .J. Mudd: Very nearlv
splashed in... .Pauline D.: They’re hopeless as draw-
ings; but one gets through as a suggestion for a
Norman Lindsay picture... .J. Edale: Close up....
C.S.D.: Calls for too much labelling to be effective.
Miss Jessie Ackerman, who used fcolecfcme
on temperance, “White Slavery,” a :d “How
I Earned My Living in the East End,” is now a
political organiser in Westralia; and, by a turn
of the whirligig, at the last Fremantle election
she supported the “ Liberal ” nominee, who w s
also Bung’s favorite, in opposition to the Labor-
ite, who was an ardent teetotaler. The lady,
however, occasionally graces Methody meetings,
where she can still be eloquent on the evils of
grog and profligacy in general.
“S.T.S.”: Rose Boldrewood—daughter
of Rolf —has written a bush novel of sport and
love-making. The Brownes are all more or less
“sporting,” but that didn’t save her from work-
ing in a betting-list that has not been equalled
since Ouida was in her prime. It was a field of
six, four of them “not likely to have a show
unless accident interfered with the favorites.”
The favorite “ had the support of all the talent,
being backed down to 3 to 1”; and the other,
“ the local favorite, went out at 10 to 1.” Why
don’t some of these good things come our way?
I am not sure that it is not better than Ouida,
for she merely showed odds laid on several
starters, and over-confident backers might just
conceivably be mad enough for that; but the
Man with the Bag is never taken with that form
of insanity.


4J,
'••V,
i 1 --v «r ty^S)
i 5
5 s.
J^'l
■ yV;
as
«SBa
15
iifi
JI3BI
h
I H
i
IS s 'i!
iiii j: ; !!|i ■; 11
'ill-, iff 1 '; 1
!;«!■ \.. i !?• • •• >! ! ,\W
IR'HI >ii .i .O
?!
?* f
« c
£
1
1 \
-H Ml I.^
r«
1 i
mm i s
ilr li: 11 ? fa
i? 111
;mV;
\ r V»
?
a?.*
M? : !
II
Sir
;••■a?
,«***£££a
il
(£Pr'
£*2
:n3^j ’’M'W®
MmihiZr
a ,; - Las
v:-'" :
■-" S as?v ;
m
im*
tSd
y <
w%.
%
fif*>
m
o
«&
/ /yr^
/ c
m
$ K?) H
o
! &a
f£
: 'a-
-5V
if j
i>
asw
|WJI
li
IM
mm
w
fj
u
m
C
<T,
Makers of High-Grade Pianos .
THE utmost care in the smallest details is exercised in the making of Beale High-
Grade Pianos, whether they be intended for the mansion or for the cottage. We
make only High-Grade Pianos. o ver fifteen thousand Beale Pianos, made in
Australia, have now been sold, and the public reliance on the high quality of our
instruments is greater than ever. Please call and inspect at any of the undermentioned
showrooms, or write for our catalogue.
0.
o
A L
L
£Tni
n<
PRINCIPAL SHOWROOMS—
378 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY (3 Doors from G.P.0.)
127 RUNDLE ST., ADELAIDE, S.A.
107 SV/ANSTON ST., MELBOURNE
837 HAY ST., PERTH, W.A.
90-92 QUEEN ST., opp. Pike Bros., our new and ONLY Address in BRISBANE.
Branch Offices at Newcastle, Bathurst, Orange, Goulburn and Broken Hill, N.S.W.;
Maryborough, Rockhampton, Mackay and Townsville, Queensland ; Kalgoorlie, W.A.
TRAVELLERS EVERYWHERE. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE. 25 YEARS’ GUARANTEE.
Head Office and Factories - - TRAFALGAR ST., ANNANDALE, SYDNEY.
CASH or EASY TERMS. REPAIRS and TUNING. Save Importers’ Profits by Buying Direct from the Manufacturers.
The Utmost Care in the Smallest Details.


PAINFUL TROUBLE
WITH FINGER NAILS
Sometimes Three Fingers Without
Nails at One Time, Began 25
Years Ago, No Permanent Cure.
Began to Use Cuticura Soap and
Ointment. In a Short Time Nails
Were Well. No Further Trouble.
“I have suffered from the same trouble
[painful finger nails] at different periods of
my life. The first time of its occurrence,
perhaps twenty-five years ago, after trying
home remedies Without getting helped, I
asked my doctor to prescribe for me, but it
was not for n year or more that my nails
and fingers were well. The inflammation and
suppuration began at the base of the finger
nail. Sometimes it was so painful that I
had to use a poultice to induce suppuration.
After the pus was discharged the swelling
would go down until the next period of
inflammation, possibly not more than a week
or two afterwards. These frequent inflam-
mations resulted in the loss of the nail. I
had sometimes as many as three fingers in
this state at one time.
“Perhaps ten years later, T began again
to suffer from the same trouble. Again I
tried various remedies, among them a pre-
scription from a doctor of a friend of mine,
who had suffered from a like trouble. This
seemed to help somewhat for a time, but it
was not a permanent cure, next tried a pre-
scription from my own doctor, but this was
so irritating to the sensitive, diseased skin
that 1 could not use it. I began to use Cuti-
cura Soap and Ointment. I had used the
Cuticura Ointment previously on my chil-
dren’s scalps with good effect. I did not use
the Soap exclusively, but I rubbed the Cuti-
cura Ointment into the base of the nail every
night thoroughly, and as often beside as I
could. I had not used it but a few weeks
before my nails were better, and in a short
time tliey were apparently well. There was
no more suppuration, nor inflammation, the
nails grew out clean again. One box of Cuti-
cura Ointment was all that I used in effecting
a cure.” (Signed) Mrs. I. J. Horton, Kato-
nah, N. Y., U. S. A., Apr. 13, 1910. On Sept.
21, Mrs. Horton wrote: “1 have had no re-
turn of the trouble with my finger nails.”
Send to R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.,
for free sample of Cuticura Ointment, with
32-page book.
9
Her Youth'S
m
LEN'J
• ll.s « S - AJ
Mexican
WALNUT STAIN
for Grey Hair
IS THE
only permanent and really satisfactory
ONE SOLUTION Hair Stain
ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES
'Ringing for More!
rv
Bird’s
Custard
stands alone in its absolute
purity, delicious flavor and
rich, egg like creaminess*
Has stood the test of time
Over 70 years * success .
“ LINSEED COMPOUND ” for Coughs and
Colds. Of proven efficacy for chest complaints.
WHOLESALE:
R. Reid & Co., Ltd.
Sargood Bros.
Alcock Bros., Ltd.
Petersen, Boesen
& Co., Ltd.
Etc.
RETAIL:
Everywhere, at 6d.
per tin—Black, Tan,
gn() Ox-blood.
WOLSEY
FOR UNDERWEAR VALUE
*• Wolsey has become the most widely-selling Underwear
in the world, simply because it offers such Value as is
unobtainable elsewhere. No matter what Wolsey Garment you
buy, or where you buy it, it will fit, and wash, and wear in
a way which will make you thoroughly glad you chose it.
‘Wolsey’ means freedom from chills, better comfort, economy, and satisfaction.
GUARANTRED
ALL PURE WOOL
The Wolsey material is clean,
new wool, soft, elastic, protect-
ive ; no cotton or mixtures.
tyOLSEY
REPLACED FREE
IF IT SHRINKS
Wolsey Underwear is guaran-
teed unshrinkable,and replaced
free should it proyh otherwise.
Wolsey Underwear is made in many;garments for men, women, and children,
and is the finest value for all. When buying be sure to see the Wolsey mark.
Wolsey Pure Wool Unshrinkable Underwear is obtainable from any retailer.
THE TWO-SPEED “SPEEDWELL.”
&■>
THE
NO BELT
WONDER.
To the Tourist, the delight of Motor-Cycling
will ever be enhanced by the assurance that he
will get out and home without vexatious delays
and stoppages, so often caused-by belt troubles.
Every motorist knows what we mean. The best
belt made is sensitive to weather; if it gets
damp it stretches and slips; if it gets wet it
comes off; if it remains dry it gets hot and
bursts. There is only one remedy, and it is a
simple one —-buy the Two-speed “Speedwell,”
which has no belt, but is driven by bevel gears,
which run in grease, and are completely covered
in. Safe in sand anil mud; safe in rain and
storm, you will find the Two-speed “Speedwell”
just perfect for either business or pleasure.
Price only £65.
Cash or Easy Terms. Call and see it.
BENNETT 8 WOOD, Ltd.,
Corner PITT and BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.
If you want the very best
G. * G.
3004
Flannelette
the Old Country Produces
buy HORROCKSES’
latfst vrnroßY
GRAND PRIZE
BRUSSELS
EXHIBITION, 1910
SEE HORROCKSES’ NAME ON
SELVEDGES and decline all substitutes
Sold by all First-Class Drapers and Storekeepers.
Watch Your Skin Grow Clearer
Using soap and water only is expecting Nature to do too much.
Chaps, rough or red skin, sallowness, blotches, wrinkles, and
other unsightly skin conditions result from the presence of ex-
traneous matter which soap and water does not always eradi-
cate. Help Nature, and keep your skin in tone by using
Icilma Fluor Cream
(Greaseless).
Everyday, especially before going out, apply a little of the
cream, and enhance your beauty. • Good for preventing
sunburn and freckles.
The native girl reminds you that ICILMA is
the product of a Natural Spring in Algeria.
SAMPLE OFFER. On receipt of 2d. in stamps a dainty
sample of (ireaseless Cream will be sent by
PRICE 2/-
per
Pot.
ICILMA CO. Ltd.
(Dept. D),
139 York Street, SYDNEY
Food
FOR INFANTS , INVALIDS AND THE AGED.
A food of great nutritive value, which can be made
suitable for any degree of digestive power by the
simple process of letting it stand for a longer or
shorter period at one stage of its preparation.
Benger’s Food forms with milk, a dainty, delicious and
highly nutritive cream, entirely free from rough and
indigestible particles. “The Lancet” describes it as
“Mr. Benger’s admirable preparation.”
BENGER’S FOOD, LIMITED, Otter Works, Manchester, England.
{Fjenger's Food is sold in tins by Druggists, etc., everywhere.
823
Business, Robbery, etc.
“S.”: Smith and Jones were public servants in a
N.S.W. western town—Smith in the telegraph office,
Jones in the Lands. Regularly the cronies took
tickets in “Tatt.’s,” the postal official being respon-
sible for the transit arrangements. They never drew
more than a £ 5-note until a couple of months ago,
when a horse (which meant a cool £2OOO, less the
usual 10 per cent.) came their way. There was much
rejoicing, in the midst of which .Jones became ill
with appendicitis, and, after an operation, died.
Smith mourned the loss of his old chum just when
they had the chance of making things hum; but
when the prize came along, he suspended his mourn-
ing while he called around for Ins whack. A sur-
prised executor met him, and pointed out that his
name did not appear on the ticket. Smith applied
to his Department for special leave of absence to
transact urgent private business ; he hurried to Syd-
ney, and paid awav good money to be told that he
hadn’t a leg to stand on. Now it isn’t safe to ask
Smith to go in even a church sweep for a pair of
hand-worked slippers.
“Xelamon”: Isn’t it high time to put something
on the statute-book to meet such cases as the recent
pitching into the Pacific of 20,000 bunches of ban-
anas, to avoid bringing down the Sydney market
price? The owners of the fruit would probably say
that they could do what they liked with their own ;
but there ought to be a law to hit a man very hard
for wilful destruction of edibles, even when they are
commercially and technically his “own.” The same
game is worked with fish ; but we pretty well deserve
it all for having allowed the Dagoes to capture prac-
tically the whole retail trade in these two important
constituents of a sub-tropical dietary. The street-
hawker, if the police authorities would give him a
chance to live, can sell fruit and fish at just about
half the rate maintained by the Italians for the one
and by the Greeks for the other. The argument that
the Dago’s extortionate tariff must be protected be-
cause he rents a shop merely means that the public
must be victimised in the interests of the fat land-
lord.
“Quidam”: Anjmne who desires to know why Vic-
toria was christened the Cabbage Garden has only
to take a trip up the Bairnsdale line. For miles the
scenery consists chiefly of fields of cabbages, turnips,
pie-melons, and so on. Not content with growing
vegetables up to the railway fences, enthusiastic cab-
bage-producers lease the ground inside the fences
from the Railway Department, so that the succulent
vegetables extend almost up to the metals. Further
out the prevailing industry changes principally to
dairy-farming, and patches of maize, grown mainly
for cattle-fodder, make pleasant light-green patches
on the landscape, although, for that matter, no one
could at present complain about lack of greenness in
the Gippsland landscape anywhere. Judging by the
conversation of knowing residents, there are other
verdant products of the soil. As is the case almost
everywhere in Victoria, the opinion of shrewd people
is that it is practically impossible to make anything
out of land if it has to be purchased at the present
price. The prevailing confidence trick is to sell the
enthusiastic newcomer a block at an exorbitant
figure, but on attractive terms, the usual result being
that the unfortunate purchaser, if not very financial,
eventually forfeits what he has paid, and goes away
“skinned.” The valuable property is in time re-
sold. One particular block is pointed to with pride
as having been recently got rid of five times. This
sort of thing explains why so many Victorians are
leaving their own State in search of land.
* * * *
“Bromide”: Australia is beginning to have its re-
ward. Till recently there was competition in the
condensed milk business, and we got the potted juice
fairly cheap. But ~ now the competitors have com-
bined, and the first notification came when the trav-
ellers quoted an increase from 4s. 7id. to ss. per
dozen. When asked why, they coolly admitted that
a combine had been formed. It is pounds to pen-
nies that this is only the first of the jumps in
price, and when the public finds it has to_ pay more
and more for its milk it ought to go behind a door
and kick itself hard in its pantry.
■K * * *
“C.J.”: The colossal scheme for defrauding the
Customs in the matter of dry goods which Kingston
exposed, and the more recent revelation in the
matter of motor-car importing, point to a Govern-
ment Indent Department with an absolute monopoly.
The private enterpriser is evidently not to be trusted
in the matter of importing. He will swindle —it
seems that he can’t help it. And the cost of catch-
ing him is growing too heavy. The easiest and
cheapest thing to do is to wipe him out and replace
him by a Government Indent Department which will
import everything, and charge a percentage for doing
so. This would not only save a lot of revenue, but
also bring in a tidy penny in the way of commis-
sion ; and it would give the Government a vast
amount of information which would come in handy
when re-shaping its tariff, and be useful also for the
Court of Industrial Arbitration. In fact, there are
stacks of advantages in the idea, not the least being
that it would stop certain swindlers from posing ag
men of brains and standing in the community.
A BUSY AUSTRALIAN DAY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Austral man awakes each morning fine,
And, rising from his lowly Sheffield bed,
He softly treads the floor of Swedish pine,
And scans the German ceiling overhead.
He pulls aloft the Yankee roller-blind,
And draws aside the curtain made in France,
When, through the English window-pane he’ll find
The Swiss asphalted pavement meets his glance.
His sleeping suit of Yorkshire flannelette
He doffs, as in his bath of foreign brand
The water bubbles through a water-jet
Imported from the dear old Motherland.
He washes with a soap in London bred.
Which lies upon a Dutch enamel shelf ;
A Turkish towel dries his dripping head,
The only thing Australian is himself.
He dresses in a suit of Scottish tweeds,
In patent boots from far-off New Orleans,
With cotton socks from Lancashire or Leeds —
Then breakfasts on a tin of French sardines.
His Hindoo coffee, from a German pot,
He samples in a vessel Japanese;
God bless the Yankee stove that kept it hot,
His true Australian appetite to please!
His breakfast over, with a morning rush
He grabs a hat with soft Italian crown,
And, on a Yankee tram-car joins the crush
Of fellow-patriots, en route for town.
The tram man smiles a faint Australian smile
As he with Foreign bell-punch checks the fares;
The very rails beneath him, mile on mile,
Are Trust-made steel from Pittsburg millionaires.
Our hero scans his paper carelessly,
And reads of workers waiting for a berth;
'Poor silly fools,” says he, “they’ll have to flee
To some remoter corner of the earth.”
Reflecting thus, and jumping off the car,
His office door, of sturdy British oak,
He opens, as his Mexican cigar
Just ends its brief Australian life in smoke.
A ring upon his Scandinavian ’phone
He answers; then he sits with busy air
Beside a desk from Baltic timber grown,
Upon his pet Vienna office chair.
Some business needs a good Australian think.
He works it out with steady brain, and then
He writes his thoughts in good imported ink,
On Scottish paper with an English pen.
His typiste, on a Birmingham machine,
Raps off his outward letters in a bunch ;
This gives him time to go, for change of scene,
Into a Chinese restaurant for lunch.
The afternoon moves on. With English mail
And German indent orders on his mind,
Alas I ’tis sad to know he’ll surely fail
To buy Australian goods of any kind.
At night again we find him, sleeping fast,
In West of England blankets snugly rolled;
Poetic justice thus comes home at last — .
Australian wool —disguised ! —keeps out the cold.
So, dreaming of imported kangaroos,
And eucalyptus from a Foreign shore,
The sleep of Grecian Morpheus he .woos —
The one thing pure Australian is the snore!
VICTORIA.
ALF LUMSDEN.


Arnott’s MilK Arrowroot Biscuits
“THE CHILDREN'S FOOD.”
A CIGAR is the BEST
SMOKE OF ALL!
But why can’t you get a
Good Cigar in the Country?
a*vY\ t
ALL over Australasia the only places you can
buy a really high-class Cigar is in the big
cities. In the country districts a good Cigar
cannot be had; because it’s only at the pubs that
you can buy Cigars at all in the out-back districts.
The publican knows that selling liquor pays him
better. He reckons that his customers only call
for a Cigar when they -ve got a few drinks in and
want to dodge getting “fu’ the noo.” Any old
Cigar does for that.
So he buys a few hundred at a time from
some “back-yarder"—real “Flor de Cabbage"
with big gold pictures all over the box and
mighty pretty bands round them —made from the
waste leaf and the cheapest growths, but called
by some high-falutiu’ name. (The making of these
Cigars is another story—l’ll tell you about it
another time.)
The storekeeper or tobac-
conist in country towns does
not sell good Cigars either.
If he does, he has to add to
the selling price of the Cigar,
the maker’s profit, the profit
of the warehouseman he
buys from, the profit of the
traveller who calls and sells
them to him, and his own
profit.
So that a good Cigar
that sells in the city at 6d.
he’d have to charge 9d, for,
and not grow fat on it then,
because the number he would
sell would be small; and
good Cigars have to be kept
in a uniform temperature,
free from exposure to the
air, or else they'll go off.
Those are just some of
the reasons why you can’t
get a good Cigar in the
country parts of Australia,
and also why so very few
Cigars are at present smoked
in the country.
Buy a 100-box of my
'* DIADEMAS,” smoke 5 or
6 of them, and, if they’re
not as good as any 6d.
Cigar you’ve ever smoked,
you needn’t pay a penny.
That's the way I’m in-
troducing my Cigars into
Australia. I know Cigar-
making from A to Z. I know
these DIADEMAS Cigars of
mine are just the coolest,
smoothest and most luxu-
rious smoke any man could wish for. Cigar-
smokers of a lifetime say so; and the more you
know about a good Cigar the better you’ll like
them.
My DIADEMAS are made from the very
finest, mild, rich, mellow, Java leaf, the filling or
inside heart of the Cigar being all straight long
Brazilian. The Cigars are hand made by skilled
workers, and every box has to pass’me before it
goes out to a customer; and is guaranteed to
burn free and draw easily. The Cigar is 4 inches
long, and the picture at the side is a copy of it,
exact in size and shape.
Now, this DIADEMAS Cigar is as good as
any 6d Cigar, sold in the cities by high-class
tobacconists, as I sell it direct to the customer—
saving the cost of wholesalers’, salesmen’s, and
retailers’ profit. I only charge you 22/6 the box
of 100 DIADEMAS, postage paid right to your
address.
Send 22/6 to-day, and get the box of 100
DIADEMAS by return post. In ordering, say
whether you like the mild, medium, or strong
grade. Please add exchange to country and
interstate cheques.
My Only Address is
LOUIS KAUFFMANN
34 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE
Illustrated Descriptive Booklet will be
Mailed Free to any address.
FARMERS SIMPLEX
BOOKKEEPER
Complete set of
Books in One.
Simplifies Land and Income Tax Returns, and
Keeps Your Business in Thorough Order.
Sold toy Recommendation—one FARMER
Recommending to ANOTHER.
1000 COPIES Already
SOLD IN W. A.
Price 12/6, Posted 13/9.
E. S. WIGG & SON LTD., PERTH.
Also obtainable at E. S. Wigg & Son Ltd., Adelaide ;
Angus & Robertson, Sydney; Watson, Ferguson
&Co., Brisbane ; Cole’s Book Arcade, Melbourne.
When Weaning Baby
The Best Food to give is
The Allenborys' Milh Food No. 1.
On the addition of water as directed, it forms an accurately estimated
humanised milk, and may be given alternately with the natural food
without fear of upsetting the child or causing digestive disturbance.
Weaning can therefore proceed gradually with comfort both to mother
and child. Farinaceous foods should not be given at this time.
Foods
PAMPHLET OH INFANT FEEDING AND MANAGEMENT FREE
Allen & Hanburys Ltd.
LONDON, ENGLAND, and
MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
SENSATIONAL TERMS!
SUBDIVISION OF THE FAMOUS and WELL-KNOWN
Felton Estate
DARLING DOWNS, QUEENSLAND
For 25 Years the home of the late HON. JAS. TYSON, the
place which he called “THE GARDEN OF AUSTRALIA,” situated
close to the Sydney-Brisbane Railway Line, 18 miles South of Toowoomba
Comprising 34*500 Acres Freehold
WILL BE SOLD BY AUCTION AT
CAMBOOYA, on THURSDAY, 29th JUNE, 1911
At 1 p.m., on arrival of the Brisbane Mail Train.
In blocks of from 80 to 3,000 Acres (which includes the Homestead Portion).
Southbrook Railway Station only 3 miles from the Estate, Broxburn Rail-
way Station 4 miles, Pittsworth Railway Station 5 miles, Cambooya Railway
Station 6 miles, Greenmount Railway Station 4 miles, Nobby Railway Station
6 miles, and Clifton Railway Station 10 miles.
Cheese and Butter Factories at Pittsworth and Southbrook. Butter Factory
at Clifton, and Cheese Factories at Cambooya and Greenmount.
This is, without doubt, the best property on the Darling Downs, and was one
of the earliest properties made Freehold by the late Hon. Jas. Tyson when he
had the pick of the whole of the Country,
The whole of the Estate is admirably adapted for Dairying, LUCERNE
GROWING, Maize, Wheat, Barley, Oats and Potatoes, and a large area
of the country is ready for the plough.
Ideal Fattening, Breeding, and Lamb-raising Country.
Watered by Hodgson’s Creek, a never failing stream running through the
centre of the Property.
Subartesian Water easily obtained all over the Property at from 30 to 80 feet.
Rainfall averages over 30 inches per annum.
NOTE THE REMARKABLE TERMS.
TERMS:—IS Per Cent. DEPOSIT, NO FURTHER PRINCIPAL FOR
10 YEARS at buyer’s option; Interest at 5 per cent, payable half-yearly.
Recognised Agents, buying for or influencing buyers to purchase, will
receive one-half commission.
NO STATE. LAND TAX.
Facilities to inspect, and for further information, lithographs, etc., apply to
Felton Estates Office, Cambooya, or
THE AUSTRALIAN ESTATES & MORTGAGE GO. LTD.
Auctioneers, BRISBANE. Q.
p
Congo./?**™:
EACH roll of Congo roofing is a yard wide and
7a feet long. It can be cut and trimmed
easily with a knife.
To make a roof with it, simply unroll the roof-
ing and nail it down, cementing the laps firmly
together with the adhesive cement which we supply
free. We supply the nails and tin caps free also.
The roof thus laid with Congo will last upwards of
ten years, and will require no care except paintings
at intervals of three or four years. Sample free on
request.
Congro Damp Course is a waterproof, |
antiseptic felt to be laid against the foundation walls
on the outside to protect them against dampness and
vermin. Use it to insure having a dry cellar. The
expense is trifling.
AGENTS Noyes Bros. (Sydney'), Ltd., Sydney ;
Noyes Bros. (Prop.), I.td., Melbourne ; Brabant & Co.,
Brisbane ; Walter lteid & Co., Rockhampton ; Harrold
Colton & Co., Ltd., Adelaide ; Millar’s Karri & Jarrah
Co., Ltd., Perth.
Tasmanian Agents— William Hart & Sons, Launceston ; T. A. Tabart, Jr., Hobart.
HAVE REGARD TO YOUR
BEST INTERESTS BY APPOINTING
The Permanent Trustee Company
of New South Wales Ltd.
Executors, Trustees, Administrators, Agents, etc.
AMPLE SECURITY ASSURED. TRUST ACCOUNTS ALWAYS OPEN TO INSPECTION.
RESERVES EXCEED THE PAID-UP CAPITAL.
AND PROPERTIES EFFICIENTLY MANAGED.
EVERY .DESCRIPTION OF TRUSTEE WORK UNDERTAKEN. FULL DETAILS ON APPLICATION.
17 O*CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY. A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager. [1
Experience Proves
the Value of
Solomon
Solution
' /• -• V. '• ■■ , : vk:
to Horse Owners.
“Sebastopol. U
“We have used SOLOMON
SOLUTION for a number of years
for Sore hacks Girth and
Collar Galls—Greasy Heels—
and all kinds of wounds and
sprains in Horses and Cattle
We have great pleasure in re-
commending it, as no stable
should be without it.”
(Signed)
D. Hanrahan & Sons.
Dairymen.
.Large Jars 5/- from Chemists
Stores and Saddlers everywhere
or post free for 5/6 from
SOLOMON COX & SON,
439 Bourke St., Melbourne
L.R.W.
A
BRAHAM
COSTUME
FOR
WINTER.
DAVID BRAHAM
AND CO.,
76 Market Street,
Sydney.
Next door to Farmer’s.
Zaw Points
iSr // luentors
Can I Obtain a Patent?
1 The quickest wav to ascertain this,
WITHOUT EXPENSE, is to write
to me describing’ your invention, enclosing a small sketch
where necessary. Nicety of drawing is not essential v
all that is necessary' at first is to give me YOUR IDEA.
I will at once inform you whether the idea is patent-
able, and, if so, give the necessary instructions for
further procedure.
Persons desirous of obtaining really reliable advice or
information regarding Patent matters are cordially in-
vited to consult me personally or by letter. In all cases
a careful consideration of their plans, an honest opinion,
and a prompt reply may be expected.
A. J. CALLINAN, Patent Attorney',
Citizens’ Buildings, Collins Street, Melbourne.
mm
mKs
Wi
OSTRICH TIPS
From South Africa.
3 for 10/-
* Black, White,
1 Cream, Natural, or
Black tipped with
White.
(Length, 10 inches.) Post
Free to any address.
Worth twice the money. Write
to-day. Send Postal Notes.
Catalogues Free.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP ,
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY ; also at
Corner of Bourke and Swanston Sts., MELBOy RM
[Mention The JjuMiETßf,] ,


Shipping;.
P. and O. BRANCH SERVICE
For DURBAN, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
* Twin-screw.
SALOON ACCOMMODATION, AMIDSHIPS,
CONVERTED INTO VERY SUPERIOR
ONE CLASS.
LONDON £l6, £lB and £2O.
CAPETOWN and NATAL £l3 135., £l5 15s. and £l7 17s.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD., 7 Bent St.
Mklkouknk Aoknts : JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William-street.
Adklaidk & Frkmantlk Aoknts : OEO. WILLS & CO.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA E N CLAN D.
ORVIETO .. Twin-Screw
OSTERLEY
OTRANTO
OTWAY .. „
OItSOVA
ORONTES . „
OMRAH
OPHIR .. „
ORAMA (Building) ~
12,130 Regd. Tons.
12,129
12,124
12,077
12,036
9,023
8,282
6,814
13,000
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy. New and luxurious
12,000-ton Steamers. Cahines-de-luxe ; State-rooms, with
bedsteads; Single Berth Rooms, Private Bathrooms;
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Sailing every fortnight from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Eta.,
12 Martin Place, Sydney.
Banking;, Public Companies, &c.
Bank of north Queensland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J, P. CANNY.
Local Director:
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 4 QUEEN VICTORIA STREET, E.C.
Manager: R. R. LOVE.
Bankers: THE LONDON COUNTY & WESTMINSTER
BANK LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Bank of Bem Z ea ' an d-
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
Total Capital Paid-up £2.000.000
Uncalled Capital £500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits £864,134
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
THE
Australian Bank nf Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL - . . £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,197,127
PAID-UP (31st December, 1910) - - £1,145,933
HEAD OFFICE—George and King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE—2 King William Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS—Sir William P. Manning, Kt., Chairman ;
George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D.; Ciias. H. Myles, Esq.;
Mark Sheldon, Esq. ; Arthur S. Barton, Esq.; Frank
N. Yarwood, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the world.
A. P. STEWART, General Manager.
The ...
Queensland National Bank,
Limited
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 413,484 8 10
Reserve (in Gov. Stock) 94,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock . 3,091,669 4 5
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
Directors: JAS. MILNE, Esq., Chairman; JAMES
MUNRO. Esq. ; Hon. A. J. CALLAN, Esq., M.L.O. ;
JOHN CAMERON, Esq. ; F. LORD, Esq.
General Manager— W. V. RALSTON.
Branches—London, Sydney & throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up £519,237 0' 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. .. 161,384 0 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) . . 75,500 0 0
£756,121 0 0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE.
Gen. Mngr.: Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London,
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
The Colonial (Qutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and
Annuities without Mutual Liability ; also
Accident and Sickness Assurance.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds. £3,219,446.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £5,300,000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Walks:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hoi. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon, Bruce Smith; K.C., M.P.
A- ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary,
Shipping.
REDUCED FARES
To EUROPE
N ord
BY
D eutscher
L/loyd.
PASSENGERS booked to Egypt, Naples,
Genoa, Algiers, Marseilles, Gibraltar,
London, Antwerp, and Bremen.
w Fitted with “ Wireless” installation.
* Fitted with Gymnasium.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
REGULAR FOUR - WEEKLY MAIL
SERVICE from Sydney and Brisbane, via
New Guinea, by Twin-screw Steamers.
For Passage and Full Particulars apply to—
LOHMANN Sc CO.. General Agents,
7 & 9 Bridge Street, Sydney ;
OSTERMEYER DEWEZ & VAN ROMPAOY, Melbourne :
H. MUECKE & CO., Adelaide;
L. RATAZZI & CO., Perth and Fremantle;
THOS. BROWN & SONS, Ltd., Brisbane and Townsville.
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS-New
Series. IV., V.. VI. Packet of Twelve,
6d. ; Packet of Ten, sd. Forwarded Post Free
to any address.
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN, PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
Twin-screw Steamers.
MEDIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
July 5.
AFFtIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
August 2.
SUEVIC, PERSIC and RUNIC to follow.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy and
Submarine Signalling Apparatus.
Only One Class of Accommodation.
FARES—CaDetown or Durban *l5 15 0 to £24 3 0
London .. ... 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
Melbourne 1 10 0
New York, Boston, Quebec,
Montreal, &c. from 25 0 0
Pamphlets and all other information on application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing,
DALGETY & COMPANY, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
TN€ AB€RD€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth and
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLINC AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
o Fitted Wireless Telegraphy,
f One Class Oijjy. ’ Not taking Passengers.
FARES— Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £57 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Special Return Tickets available for outward passage
by Orient Line—£ll2 (First-class each way); £B5
(Second-class Orient).
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
DALGETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia.
YOUR WINTER
HOLIDAY.
OEND for. our Booklet, “Papua and the
Pacific Islands, How to visit them?”
describing many delightful Island trips from
upwards. Most attractive as Winter
Holiday Cruises.
■Bern
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., 11 Bridge St., Sydney.
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
HEAD OFFICE: MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
MONEY TO LEND
To Farmers and Settlers from £5O to £2OOO,
repayable by instalments extending- over 30 years
with right to repay loan without penalty.
Partial repayments on favorable terms.
Low rates of interest.
Valuation Fees on lowest scale.
On Investment up to £25,C00 for fixed terms not
exceeding: five years on Freeholds or Certificated C.P’s.
and Associated O.L’s. Interest payable half-yearly.
Right to repay one-fifth of principal each year
allowed.
Lowest current rates of interest.
Full particulars and forms of application for loans obtainable at any Branch or Post Office Agency, or from
Grown Lands Agents and at the Head Office, MOORE STREET, SYDNEY. J. 11. Davies, Secretary.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
DIRECTORS
£2,913,820
£1,950,000
£2,913,820
£7,7 77,640
The Hon. C. K. MacKeilar, M.L.C., President.
Senator The Hon. James Thomas Walker.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.C.
Auditors: Alfred Georgre Milson, Esq. ; William Harring-ton Palmer, Esq.
Head Office—George St., Sydney. London Office—64 Old Broad St., E.C.
With 330 Branches in all the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji and Papua (New South Wales ldo, Victoria 38,
Queensland 49, South Australia 5, West Australia 11, New Zealand 54, Tasmania, Fiji 3, Papua 2,
London 1); and Agents and Correspondents throughout the United Kingdom, Europe, India, China, Japan,
and the East, Africa, Canada, the United States, South America. Honolulu, and the West Indies.
Cable remittances made to, and Drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills negotiated and
collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney , Limited.
Capital Paid-up £1,500,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 1,420,000 0 0
Reserve Capital 1,500,000 0 0
£4,420,000 0, 0
DIRECTORS:
George J. Cohen, Esq. .. .. Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C. .. .. Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C. A. J. Onslow Thompson, Esq.
Hon. James Borns, M.L.C.
Auditors : E. S. Cape, Esq., and F. W. Hixson, Esq.
General Manager : T. A. Dibbs.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
H. H. Massif,.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
Manager : A. J. Soutar.
Accountant: W. R. Sayers.
Secretary: M. S. Grant.
Branch Accountant: J. Clayton.
Inspectors:
W. C, B. Tiley, W. H. Pinhey.
London Office: 18 Birchin - Lane.
Directors : F. H. Dan gar, Esq. ; Hon. H. S. Littleton ;
N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manager, F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
The METROPOLITAN
ACCIDENT, FIRE
and GENERAL
INSURANCE COMPANY, LIMITED.
THE CO-OPERATIVE FIRE OFFICE.
Shares Issued to Contributors of Business,
When Your Premium is Due Get Full Particulars.
HEAD OFFICE: 30Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
BRANCHES: Victoria, S. Aus., Queensland.
‘ COAGULINE,’ ‘ KLINX,’ ‘TENASITINE
■Cements for breakages, manufacturing purposes, etc.
THE OCEAN
Accident & Guarantee
Corporation Limited,
Ocean House, 22 Moore Street, Sydney.
Eire, accident, workmen’s com-
pensation, PUBLIC RISK, BUR-
GLARY and PLATE GLASS INSURANCES
at Lowest Rates.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND(lnvestedin Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £40,000 0 0
Dirkctors : R. Murray Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Chairman ;
John Grice, Esq., Vice-Chairman ; Hon. J. M. Pratt; J. H.
MacFarland, Eso., M.A., LL.D. ; Alexander M‘Cracken.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
Well, of course
Anything worth doing is
worth doing well —so for
the antiseptic cleansing your
teeth need every day, use
CALVERT’S
Carbolic Tooth Powder
Lo:aI Chemists and Stores sell it,
F. C. Calvert & Co,* Manchester* Eng.
“LINSEED COMPOUND” of 40 years’ proven
efficacy, for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis, etc.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports*
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
GERALDTON (W.A.)
S.S. Kanowna, June 24
(To Fremantle without
transhipment), connect-
ins.'' with Koombana
in Fremantle for North
West Ports.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Oairns.
S.S. Wollowra, June 10.
S.S. Innamiticsta, June 17.
S.S. Grantala, June 24.
Best and Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which Can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO.. LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
To VANCOUVER, via BRISBANE,
FIJI, and HONOLULU, thence
by Rail to any part of CANADA
or UNITED STATES.
The Best Route to Europe.
SAILINGS :
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
* Via Auckland, New Zealand ; omits Brisbane.
Illustrated Pamphlets Free on Application.
Agents throughout Canada, United States
and Europe—Canadian Pacific Railway Co.
Eor full particulars apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 269 George-sweet, Sydney.
F. H. vS.
Federal-Houlder>Shire Lines.
STEAM TO LONDON
Via SUEZ CANAL.
S.S. “FIFESHIRE,”
10,000 Tons. E. T. Crf.mer, Commander.
Will be despatched from BRISBANE about 20th June
„ „ „ SYDNEY „ 27th June
„ „ „ MELBOURNE „ 4th July
„ „ „ ADELAIDE „ 11th July
The saloon accommodation consists of all two-berth
cabins on the upper deck, situated amidships.
The superior third-class accommodation, comprised of
two, four and eight-berth cabins, situated on the main
deck, amidships, with dining room on the upper deck.
Well lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious decks.
Third-class passengers supplied with fresh provisions
from cool chamber throughout the voyage. Surgeon and
Stewardess carried. Electric light throughout. Return
and Round Trip tickets issued via Cape and (or) Suez
routes. Prepaid passages arranged.
Saloon. Third Class.
FARES .. .. £49 10s. £l3 13s. £l5 15s. £l7 17s.
Steerage fares from Brisbane One Guinea extra.
To be followed at regular four-weekly intervals by fast
twin-screw passenger steamers. For further information,
illustrated books, pamphlets, etc., apply to
BIRT & CO., Ltd., Svdnev ;
TURNBULL, MARTIN &'CO., Brisbane;
H. JONES & CO.. Ltd., Hobart;
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN & Co., Ltd., Melbourne;
ELDER. SMITH & Co., Ltd.. Adelaide.
* EORGE HOTEL,
* St. Hilda., Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
Superior Inducements to Colonial Visitors at the
Westminster Palace Hotel,
VICTORIA STREET, Opposite Westminster
Abbey and the Houses
) England, of Parliament.
A thoroughly comfortable Home-like Hotel,
located in one of the best districts in London.
Most convenient situation for business or pleasure.
Single bedrooms from 3/6, and Double Bedrooms
from 5/6 per day, and NO ATTENDANCE
LONDON
CHARGES.
Illustrated Tariff Booklet Sent on Request.
GEO. J. BRINK WORTH, Manager.
Millars’ Karri 8 Jarrak
Co. (1902), Ltd.
We Supply—
JARRAH Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’ Scant-
ling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
72 BISHOPSGATE STREET WITHIN,
LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
6S£ PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W. .
Branches in all parts of the world.


Superior
Quality
Silverware
—yet not expensive.
Orders through the Post receive
prompt attention, and we send
ALL GOODS POST FREE.
BJ4496—Fruit or Oake Stand, Fancy, China Plates and
Silver-plated Stand, 32/6.
BJ264s—Pine Cut-Glass Four-Bottle
Dinner Cruet, £l/12/6.
8J4757 —Biscuit Box, Cut Glass and Fine
Quality Silver-plate, 25 /-
8J1689-Silver-plated Ejrg- Stand and
Spoons, with Four White China
Cups, 18/6.
BJl4o6—Silver-plated Sauce Boat,
10/6.
BG222l—Tile Tea Pot Stand,
Silver-plated Mount, 7/6.
m
am
ttiSSA
m
k
BG7l22—Handsome Pull Cut-Glass and Polished Oak Liquor Frame,
with Glasses, £5/5/-
8E9417 —
Silver-plated
One Cup Tea
Infuser, 3/6.
BC6loB—Handsome Silver-plated Flower Stand
and Rose Bowl, £6/10/-
BJ3929—Fruit Dish and Spoon, Clear Glass and Fine Quality
Silver-plate, 21/-
& CO. (AUSTRALIA) LTD.,
STRAND CORNER,
Your Government
says it’s pure.
4 BOVE everything else the
" label on the JOSHUA
bottle is a Government
guarantee that the whisky
is pure and that you run no
risk in drinking it. While
the seal is on the bottle, the
collar round the neck, the
cork (with Joshua’s brand)
inside and the capsule over
that, you are absolutely safe.
The Government protects you.
Obtainable at
The Civil
Service Stores,
Pitt Street, Sydney.
xsogotm
[7/m R
I
yvj
Dtp
a*
\
if
$
<
R\W
O/o
STANDARD]®
MALT
HISKY
&ST(®
JoAuxi f
wChmph;
MCLBOUDrt
Ul
cxa o^>
The Whisky, you
will agree, is good ;
and that will agree
with you because
it’s good.


Catarrh of
the Stomach.
25 X3’Grady Street, Albert Park, Vic.
Dear Sirs, —I was suffering from catarrh of the stomach for a period of
over four months and lost 16 lb. in weight. I used to have severe paptsiin
the stomach after meals and mouthfuls cf water would come upt and
I could only get relief when the food itself came up. I.decided to tryA/iAcer's
Emulsion, and the first week after I began taking it I gained 4 lb., aydaoon
went up to my usual weight. lam now able to eat my food without fetar of
the awful pains, and shall always feel most grateful for the relief I Hake
gained from the Emulsion. (Signed) T. T.OVET.T.
ANGIEKOMULSION
Angier’s Emulsion soothes the mucous membrane of the stomach rind ‘iitestines,
arrests fermentation, a,nd promotes normal, healthy action of the. bowels. It is a
splendid tonic to appetite and digestion, a,nd it builds up health and strength.
Doctors prescribe it for chronic indigestion, nervous dyspepsia, stomach ahd inlestinai
catarrh, etc. It has cured many obscure and obstinate cases. Of tChemists
1/3, 2/9 and 4/6.
A FREE SAMPLE
sent on receipt of 4d. postage. Mention this paper.
THE ANGIER CHEMICAL CO., Ltd., 7, Barrack St.. Sydney.
No Household
Should ever be without a bottle of Dr. Sheldon’s
Magnetic Liniment; a reliable remedy for cuts,
bruises, aches, pains, rheumatism and lumbago.
Price, Is. 6d. and Ss.
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BY
APPOINTMENT
TO
H.M. THE KING.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plat£ and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
For BWi<s by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrubb Sc Co. on each Bottle.
IN BANANA LAND
The proposed match for the shearing
championship between Zimmerle and Living-
t- tone, which was to have taken place in Syd-
ney in January, has fallen through for the
time; but Livingstone and Seary are likely to
be matched.
After an effort spread over several weeks,
the. appeal to the Georges of Rockhampton
, to subscribe to a gift to George of England
has resulted in a collection of a small and
as yet unnamed total from six Georges.
a Georges in Rockhampton seem to be few—
• or sensible.
Brisbane Courier agrees cordially with a
local Customs official who says: “There is
no such thing as a slack month now in
Queensland.” What! With a Labor Gov-
vernment running Australia, with two La-
bor Premiers starring the Old Country, and
a grievous land-tax on the back of the Fat
Man ! Tut, tut!
T. M. King, who gave up being Railway
Commissioner the other day, has in his time
been Collector of Customs, Chief Inspector
of Distilleries and Excise, Under-Secretary
in the Treasury, Auditor-General and Dep-
uty Railway Commissioner; and, finally, for
two months, on Thallon’s death, he was
Railway Commissioner.
The “unwritten law” got a lift in Bris-
; bane the other day, when one Cochrane ap-
peared before Supreme Court Justice Chubb
;on a charge of stabbing. He pleaded not
guilty, but admitted the stabbing and
pleaded (lie “unwritten law.” The jury
took the matter out of the Judge’s hand by
bringing in a verdict of not guilty, after less
than a quarter of an hour’s consideration.
“The Prod”: Longreach Show, which is
Central Queensland’s great rally, is over,
and the squatters have departed for their
i dens. This show is, among other things, a
matrimonial fair, and every year a number of
t squatters meet their fates. The just-con-
eluded one is no exception to the rule ; visit-
ing belles have snapped up woolly eligibles,
and on short engagements too. Another de-
velopment was the subscribing of £50,900 to
procure motor wool-waggons if the. carriers
persist in refusing to haul wool at the old
rate after July. The reason the squatters
didn’t rush in without any “if” is that they
like the carriers, because the gentlemen of the
road buy horse-flesh from them and assist to
bulge the squatter purse, especially in
drought time.
“Flinderino” sends off a black brother: —
Died recently on the Yarrabah reserve, in the
North, an old" outlaw named Paddy. Before the
advent of the missionary, Patrick was chief of the
Binghis who speared their wallaby or bandicoot on
the country that is now the Yarrabah mission sta-
tion. In the bad old days he ran a sort of labor
agency: for payments of a kind, he supplied skip-
pers of beche-de-mer craft and pearling luggers with
black, crews. Cape York aboriginals made splendid
sailors. Paddy bitterly resented the coming of the
missionary folk, as it interfered with his dealings
with the white and yellow mariners. Also it knocked the
bottom out of his kingdom. Some of his tribe
joined the mission; the others, all except Pat, cleared
out to new country. The deserted chief spent the
remainder of his days wandering aimlessly over the
reserve, chyacking the black converts, and starting
bush fires where they were least wanted. He in-
variably had a gin with him, but she wasn’t always
the same gin. One time he got so troublesome
that the mission authorities took him over to Fitzroy
Island, where he could do but little damage. He
put up with it for a few weeks, and then escaped to
the mainland by paddling across the intervening
three or four miles of Pacific Ocean on a bit of a
log —a mere sapling.
THE TRUANT
CALLER: “Is your father at home, my little man?"
YOUNG BILL : “ Yes sir, ’e’s inside — ’e’s waggin' it from work ter-day.”
William Pagan, the new Deputy Railway
Commissioner, has moved around more than
most men. Trained in the Caledonian Co.’s
service, he afterwards engineered in Vene-
zuela and the U.S. and Jamaica, and again
in England; then moved out to N. S. Wales,
where his brief job was with the Works De-
partment ; then on to Bananaland, where,
after showing much push and initiative on
construction works, he followed H. C. Stan-
ley as chief engineer 10 years ago.
The man who wrote reporting the death
of the Wild River Times was guilty of a
gross exaggeration. The Times isn’t dead ; all
that has happened is that the paper is leased,
and that J. T. Algar has had to take over
his late partner’s interest. And Algar
tackles the job with heaps of confidence in
both the paper and the rich district in whose
interest it keeps a watchful eye alike on the
big potato and the little potentate/
Our [?]ory Hope.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The country is not clamoring for empirical legisla-
tion and revolutionary enactments during the coming
Parliamentary session. It desires a steady continu-
ance in the present paths of progress.
—Brisbane daily.
We hope you will not interfere
The while we raise the little loan,
Nor smite the Council’s hoary Peer
With Gideon’s sword or Samson’s bone ;
Just let us pour the dollars out
In one unending, shining flood,
And dream no more of strike or rout
Or wading deep in Patman’s blood.
For change the eouhtry does not pine,
She simply clamors “Let me be
At rest beneath my fig and vine,”
Although at large Iniquity
: May stalk, with iron-handed Greed,
A gruesome pair, hard-faced and dour,
Who sweat the helpless bands of Need
And grind the faces of the Poor.
Oh never, never, should we wish
To tread the paths of Anarchy ;
Sir Fat may bide beside his dish,
•And cuddle fair Monopoly;
It is' not ours to pull them down
Or rudely break their soft repose,
Or scowl with evil-boding frown
On Purse’s mid-day glutton doze.
Pour/out, pour out, the borrowed tin,
And bid the people shout “Hooray!”
Let callous Greed, with evil grin,
Crush down the young and grind the grey;
And see with sacrilegious hand
Ye smite no link from off the chain
That holds the poor in ev’ry land,
The while they plead—and plead in vain.
QUEENSLAND.
F.B.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, June 3, 1911.
My Dear Tiiargomindaii, —
On Thursday the baby university was
proudly displayed in its swaddling clothes
to admiring uncles and aunts from other
universities. Sir William Macgregor, in
gorgeous robes, read the Chancellor s ad-
dress, which was an hour long. Its tail
was greeted with an outburst of cheering.
Wullie Kidston was handed an honorary
degree, and may now proudly label himself
“Doctor.” His own particular brand is
LL.D. One of the undergraduates whis-
pered to me that this means “Lor’-Love-a-
Duck,” but you never can trust these under-
grads. The' Medicals, in their flowing robes
and hoods edged or lined with scarlet,
looked more le beau sabreur than the staid
family doctor. The undergrads received
them with piercing demands to “say 99,”
and sadly whistled the “Dead March” as
they filed out. The Vision, overcome by
the, perhaps, too oft-rehearsed parental
speech, sank her picturesque head and plac-
idly slumbered, like the sleeping beauty in
the hall of the Ogre of Furthermore. Aud-
ible sighs of relief stirred the ooultry on
the women’s hats as the representatives of
other universities announced that their
speeches should be “taken as read.”
The Hospital Ball on Tuesday was a
huge monetary and social success, and
Mayoress Diddams wore the satisfied air of
one who. sees her efforts crowned with laurel
wreaths and trimmed with banknotes. The
officers from Kaiser Bill’s battle-cutter Cor-
moran rolled up in force, and their rapidly-
filled programmes was satisfactory evidence
that the Brisbane girls look upon the Ger-
man menace as a false alarm.
Last week, when the gas men were on
strike, and a heavy darkness brooded over
this fair city, Mrs. Egley White besought
the many guests expected in honor of Rica
Da.rvall to bring along their own illumin-
ants. As a result, kerosene lamps, motor
head-lights, lanterns and candles were spread
over the White house until it looked like a
chapter from the Arabian Nights.
Rica Darvall became liica Bell on Thurs-
day, and was formally presented to Camboon
as" its future mistress. She accepted the
responsibility in a becoming white satin dress,
set off by a gift of diamonds and pearls
from the bridegroom.
During a month spent among the islands
in the wonderful North, your Mario has
been discovering many things, amongst them
a mission station where the heathen in Ins
blindness is unable to understand the blessed-
ness of Christianity as he finds it. Even
to me it seemed a little strange that, while
some of the mission children are unable to
ou.tain the meat they crave for, the station’s
launch is sent to a neighboring port twice a
week, and generally brings back a supply of
bull-beef for the Saints’ tripe-hound. A she
missionary up that way told me that so eager
were the sinful to do wrong that one of the
little lads had actually dug up and eaten a
portion of meat the hound had hidden. She
said it with the air of one relating a scan-
dal. We were also told in shocked whispers
of a former saint, who bathed surrounded by
dusky Hebes, in the only water available for
the drinking of the multitude. As a monu-
ment of failure the place is a wonder to the
unprejudiced, and if it is the best thfit
the mission can do for its lost black brother,
the sooner it leaves him to his fate, or the
care of the Government, the better.
In our travels we saw into the ways of a
trading-cum-holiness co. which has leased
land for the growing of cocoanut and the
raising of shell. Profit above 5 per cent, upon
subscribed capital (when it arrives) is to go
to the enlightenment of the nigger. Mean-
while, the nigger explains fhat, having
bought his boat on terms from the co., he is
forced to trade with and procure stores
from his benefactors, and, as a consequence,
his pay works out at exactly two-thirds of
that ruling at Thursday Island. His arith-
metic may be wrong; but, anyhow, believing
it to be right, the heathen rages.
We also called upon a sturdy Samoan,
who kings it over the wonderful island of
Nigheer, about five hours’ sail or less from
Thursday Island. He was one of the men
who, during the pearl-shell row some years
ago, ran many tons of pink pyramids into
the continental market and sold them at
a fabulous price, until the trade settled its
little differences. An expert diver in his
time, he worked for Frank Jardine, who
still lives at Somerset, in the beautiful Al-
bany Pass, with his Samoan princess, and is
at present accompanying the royal lady on
a trip to her native island.
The Federal edict having gone forth that
the black diver must go, the Shellers’ Asso-
ciation of Thursday Island, bowing, its head,
is: arranging a school for white divers, on
the principle of a six months’ course. At
the end of that time it is reckoned that cer-
tificates of competency will be issued, and
the association will employ the holders on a
co-operative basis. The association is willing
to pay half the cost of establishing the ih-
structional school (£400), on condition the re-
mainder of the money is provided tom the
amount derived from the registration of
boats. Two pugnacious under-secretaries
are arguing the point, and Thursday Island
is waiting for some information.
Mrs. Ellis Rowan was in the
other day, on her way to the scrubs of North
Queensland, - where tehe’ will track, the. un-
painted flower to its lair, and paint it in
spite of its resistance. She expects to be
two months over the job, and is going alone.
Miss Hermione Frederica Ulrich, lately
lecturer in Modern Languages at Or-
mond College, Melbourne —a talented lady
who has won scholarships of enormous ton-
nage and is an M.A., of Melbourne Univer-
sity—has been appointed sub-lecturer in her
favorite tongues at Brisbane’s seat of learn-
ing. The lady is an Australian.
Yours affectionately,
MARIO.
A Brisbane man named King is claiming
the Australian long-distance motor record.
He started from the Northern capital, went
to Sydney, thence to Melbourne, Broken
Hill and Cunnamulla, and back to Brisbane.
That is nearly 6000 miles. The same tyree
were used all through the trip, and the only
mishap was a broken back axle near Cunna-
mulla.
Bananaland Government has some notion
of taking over the aboriginal station at Yar-
rabah from the Anglican authorities, who
seem to fail in the matter of making the
place self-supporting. At a recent meeting
of Yarrabah blacks, held to protest against
any break-up or deportation, one “Billy” re-
marked : “We do not want to leave Yarra-
bah, and go out into the world to learn to
drink and swear.” If the Church people
have not taught the aboriginal to work, they
have at least taught him to cant.
Among those present at the outing given
by Walkers Limited, of Maryborough, to
celebrate the delivery of the 150th locomotive
to the Bananaland Railway Department, was
Thomas Braddock, one of the three founders
of the firm of John Walker and Co., which
afterwards became Walkers Limited. The
other two were John Walker and J. F.
-Wood, both of whom are dead. The trio left
Ballarat on account of slackness of work,
pushed north with the object of establishing
a foundry for the manufacture of mining
machinery, and picked upon Maryborough as
the site for their smithy. Gympie was then
beginning to boom, and that gave them such
a lift that within a few years they started
building locomotives.


s.
'ST’
6
N
■>
D
Sr
1
5
$
M y^
B
Jj THE
COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE
Assurance Society Limited.
“The Most Progressive Life Office.”
COMPARISON OF NEW BUSINESS.
For Year 1909 FOR YEAR 1910
Ordinary Department New Business £l,l 01,059 ••• £2,620,246
Industrial Department New Business ... £1,865,212
Accident Department New Business ... £1,068,677
Total New Business 1,992,679 ... £5,554,135
THE COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE now declares
ANNUAL BONUSES.
BONUS FOR 1909
£1 per £lOO assured.
BONUS FOR 1910—
£1 ss. per £lOO assured.
THE SOCIETY TRANSACTS:
1. Life and Endowment Assurances and Annuities.
2. Life and Endowment Assurances combined with
Sickness and Accident Benefits.
3. Personal Accident and Sickness Assurance.
4. industrial Assurance.
The following points tend to make The Colonial
Mutual Life “THE MOST PROGRESSIVE
OFFICE.”
1. Vigor of Management.
2. Wide range of most attractive Tables.
3. Prompt Settlement of Claims.
4. Purely Mutual Office.
Principal Office: 419-421 Collins Street, Melbourne, Victoria
The Society has established Branches, and is actively conducting business throughout. AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND, GREAT BRITAIN, SOUTH AFRICA, EGYPT and FIJI.
\ Board of Directors:
GERALD T. BAKER (Chairman).
HENRY HENTY, J.P.
H. BYRON MOORE.
ARTHUR BONVILLE WERE, J.P.
The Hon. AGAR WYNNE, M.H.R.
Secretary and Actuary : JAMES PULLAR, F.F.A.
Manager of Ordinary and Industrial
Depts. for Australasia :
C. E. MELVILLE.
Sub-Manager of Ordinary and Industrial
Depts. for Australasia:
A. G. MELVILLE.
The Insurance and Banking Record, May
20, 1911“ The Report of the Colonial Mutual
Life Assurance Society came rather as a surprise.
A very large New Business is shown, at a cost
less than might have been expected. The Busi-
ness of. the Industrial Department has assumed
large proportions. The Report is remarkable for
the magnitude of the New Business in both the
Ordinary and Industrial Departments.”
The Sydney Morning Herald, May 11, 1911:
“The Report shows that the period under review
was one of great progress.... This large amount of
New Business has been attained at a considerably
lower cost than in any previous year.”
The Daily Telegraph, Sydney, May 11, 1911: —
“The Annual Meeting of the Colonial Mutual Life
Assurance Society was held in Melbourne yester-
day, when a very favorable Report was presented..
The Annual Bonus is a new departure with the
Society.”
The Evening News, Sydney, May 11, 1911:
“The period under review was one of great pro-
gress .... owing to the improved internal organisa-
tion of the Society and the attractive contracts
which the Society is offering to the public.”
The Age, Melbourne, May 11, 1911: —“In the
figures presented to Policy-holders in the Colonial
Mutual Life Assurance Society, Ltd., yesterday,
the Chairman of Directors has justification for con-
gratulating Members on the position of their organ-
isation. Great progress has been made in all
branches of the business.”
The Argus, Melbourne, May 11, 1911 : —“The
Report of the Colonial Mutual Life Assurance
Society, Ltd., for 1910, shows that great energy
was infused into the management of the Institu-
tion during the year.”
The Register, of Adelaide, May 11, 1911:
“The Bonus of £1 ss. has been declared on the
most conservative principles. It will therefore be
quite understood the solid grounds for the expres-
sion of the Directors’ confidence that ‘the position
will result in the declaration of a still better Bonus
on future distributions.’ ”
The Brisbane Courier, May 11, 1911:—“The
total volume of New Business transacted was
85,231 Policies, assuring £5,554,136. These results
have been produced at a remarkably low cost.”
The Telegraph, of Brisbane, May 11, 1911 :
“Taking the Report in any Department, and as a
whole, both Management and Policy-holders may
be congratulated.
The Times, of Wellington (N.Z.), May 12,
1911'“The Report shows that the year 1910 has
been a record one in the history of the Society.
The New Business was obtained at smaller cost
ratio than in any previous year.”
The Evening Star, Dunedin (N.Z.), May 13,
1911: — “The results.... have surpassed the most
sanguine anticipations. The increase in the amount
of new business can only be characterised as
phenomenal. The affairs of the Colonial Mutual
Life are evidently in the hands of able men.”


Complete Cinematograph Outfits Supplied
For the man with a few pounds a Picture Show,
either local or travelling, is one of the most
profitable investments.
The cost of maintenance is small.
The public everywhere demand them !
We supply complete outfits at all prices.
Call and see our huge stock of Films —
Over One Million Feet of Pictures to choose from.
SECOND-HAND FILMS.
Send for our PINK LIST, which gives
particulars of our Second-Hand Films —
the Cheap-st in Australia!
CATALOGUE POST FREE.
Get our Prices for Regular
Supplies they’re Small I
Duplicate parts, accessories, always in stock.
Everything for the Showman for Sale.
JERDAN’S,
393 George Street
“ My Opticians,”
Opticians and Electricians,
(Facing
Royal Hotel),
Sydney.
K.
£
SCIENCE
behind it !
PEBECO is a complete scientific health
course for the mouth and teeth.
Its alkaline properties correct the acidity of
the saliva, prevent bacterial inroads upon rhe
teeth and deodorise the breath. Pebeco imparts
a pearly whiteness, arrests decay, removes tartar,
and, by invigorating- the tissues, remedies shrink-
ing gums.
PEBECO
Tooth Paste
is highly antiseptic, and, if regularly used, pre*
rents many diseases of the mouth and throat.
Of all Chemists, etc.
SOLK AGENT —
G ARNOLD, 6 O’Connell St., Sydney.
(Wholesale only.)
POT POURRI Stands for Quality.
The Highest Product of the
Tobacco Blenders’ Art.
“ POT POURRI ” Cigarettes.— The highest grade obtainable, at 6d. per packet of io ;
4/6 per ioo.
“ POT POURRI ” Cigars. —A fragrant smoke — 3d. each ; 5 for l/» ; 18/6 per 100.
“POT POURRI ’’ Tobacco. — 40Z. tins, 2/= ; Boz. tins, 4/- ; 8/- per lb. There is none
better than this—it is the BEST.
“ POT POURRI ’’ Pipes, Silver-mounted, superior quality, all shapes, 2/6 each.
“POT POURRI’’ always the same, always enjoyable.
Clients in country or other States ORDER NOW, and it will be
posted FREE by return, with Catalogue will interest you.
A. A. MARKS, Sole Agent, 376 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The World’s Standard
Valveless Engine.
THE life history of a FERRO ENGINE would be
very interesting were we to follow it from its
embryonic stage on the blue prints of the
designers, through the various phases of infantile
life, till it emerges from the factory to be transported
to some particular spot on old mother earth, to fulfil
its destiny as the WILLING SLAVE OP INDUSTRY.
From icy pole to torrid zone, from far=off Alaska
to Australia, the sun never sets on the “ FERRO.”
THE CURSE OF ADAM has no terrors for the
men who own them. A man must needs sweat, but
he can sweat to better advantage than by yanking a
saw, pump handle or chaffcutter. Turn these jobs
over to the “ FERRO ” ; they are built to do them.
If you do not happen to own one, get busy and
write the nearest agent, who will be only too happy
to suggest the right sweat=preventer for the job.
Made in the following sizes suitable for
Stationary, Portable or Marine use:
3,4, VA, 8, 11, 12, 15, 17, 25 H.P.
FERRO AGENTS S
Hall Bros., Druitt St., SYDNEY.
Acme Motor & Eng. Co.. 355 Lonsdale St., MELBOURNE.
Howard Motor & Cycle Co., Queen St., BRISBANE.
F. J. Langley, Torrens St. E., ADELAIDE.
Perth Motor House, Hay St., PERTH.
Wearne & Ceard, LAUNCESTON.
Hayward & Garrett, Stuart St., DUNEDIN.
H. T. Whitson & Co., Customs St. W., AUCKLAND
H. T. Moors, APIA, SAMOA.
r«n i) i »Vttti n»i i nm'a m ; ram >i' m
4
\
Grow a Moustache.
Grow a moustache—a full, flowing, healthy moustache by the aid of
Gapillarine.
It will improve your appearance immensely. Never fails. A little rubbed
on each night before retiring is all that is needed. Will give you full satisfaction
in a few months.
Price 10/6 a jar. Post free anywhere.
If you have a moustache try the C. & A. Moustache Trainer.
Keeps it the right shape. Worn at night. 2s. 6d. post free.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
Established
30 Years.
s
HAVE YOU GOT?
1. A Tearing, hacking Cough?
2. A Stuffed-up Chest?
3. A Teasing Irritation in your Throat?
4- A Difficulty in Breathing?
5. A Cold in Your Head ?
6. A Fit of Sneezing ?
7. A Pain in Your Chest ?
8. A Shortness of Breath ?
9. “Only a Bit of a Cold?”
IF YOU HAVE. TAKE
HAVE
YOU?
hEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE
TIIE GRANDEST REMEDY FOR
COUGHS & COLDS
“A STITCH IN TIME SAVES NINE.”
FROM ALL CHEMISTS AND STOREKEEPERS, AND
W. G. HEARNE & CO., Ltd., Geelong, Vic.
N-S.W. Branch Office: 522 George Street, Sydney.
PALMER
CORD
TYRES.
THE
BEST
TYRES.
USED ON THE KING’S CARS.
Palmer Cord Tyres.
Only those tyres which have PROVED better than all others have the honor
of our King's patronage—
Palmer Cord Tyres must, by reason of their unique and ingenious construction,
last longer and give greater satisfaction than those built upon a canvas foundation.
Apply for New Reduced Price List issued under date Ist May, 1911.
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER CO.,
279 GEORGE STREET SYDNEY and at 33 Bolton Street, Newcastle.
iz/fCetINXJi
OTHER MODELS
From 7/6 to 40/-
1
The Accondeon with
The Mellow Tone
Is just perfection for Song Accompaniments, Dance Music and
Picnics. The Organ-like Tone of these Instruments is attained
by the use of Bell Metal Reeds, which are hand-fitted and tuned.
THREE POPULAR MODELS.
THE ORGAN TONED MELBA
3 Sets Bell Metal Reeds, Price 22/6, Post Free.
THE DANCE KING
4 Sets Bell Metal Reeds, Price 30/-. Post Frea.
THE PICNIC MODEL
2 Sets Bell Metal Reeds, Price IS/-. Post Free.
FOR A FREE CATALOGUE WRITE TO
ALLAN & Co.
276 Collins Street, Melbourne,
And also at BENDIGO & GEELONG.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original and Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
witK each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
-1/IJ, 2/9 & 4/6
’/ilcrcW*
specific
Checks and
arrests Fever,
Croup, Ague.
The Best
Remedy
known for
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS.
Acts like a charm in
DIARRH(EA, and Is the only
n CHOLERA and DYSENTERY.


LETTERS COPIED
WHILE WRITING
By Using Your Own Letter
Paper, Invoices,
etc., WITH THE
'NSC/ SOO
Patent ZanetiC
copying Book.
You simply insert
your writing paper
in the holder and write. Whereupon you sequre by
the act of writing a perfect letter and a perfect copy
(which remains in the book). There is no sign of
copying or perforated edge.
Sample of the Celebrated Zanetic Paper which
produces this result free from i
S.B. ZANETIC WORKS, Welford
Road, Leicester, England.
If stamped addressed envelope enclosed, one com-
plete NSC/100 Copying 200 full size lOin. x Sin.
letters, for 3/6 post free ; or Copying 400, 5/-.
WHOLESALE AGENTS WANTED.
1
LIGHTING
RESULTS
Guaranteed with the
purchasing of an
Atmoslitk Air Gas
Machine. The At-
moslite is representa-
tive of the best efforts
of skilled engineers—
theeondensed axperi-
ence of masters in
illuminant engineer-
ing. Testi d under
local conditions. Ap-
proved of by all Fire
Insurance Under-
writers’Associations.
Write for literature.
Brandt Bros., Ltd.,
LAMPHOUSE,
236 Pitt St., Sydney.
Elizabeth St, Melbourne
“THE HEART OP THE AUTOMOBILE”—
hmou s Schebler Carburetor
The best Vaporising: Device for ALL PETROL
ENGlNES—either Land or Marine, Stationary
or Moving- if you want to get more HORSE-
POWER from vour Engine or a GREATER
NUMBER OP MILES PER GALLON use
“THE SCHEBLER.” Booklet and all Infor-
mation Free. Correspondence Invited.
ROBERT C. SWAN & CO. LTD.,
304 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
(The Acetylene Burner House).
•‘LINSEED COMPOUND” for Comrns and
Colds. Loosens phlegm. Allays irritation.
Don’t Wear a
T russ.
After 30 Years’ Experience I have produced an ApplL
ance for Men, Women or Children that Cures Rupture.
I SEND IT ON TRIAL.
If you tried most everything else, come to me. Where
others fail is where I have my greatest success. Send
attached coupon to-day, and I will send you free my
illustrated book on Rupture and its cure, showing my
Appliance and giving you prices and names of many
people who have tried it and are extremely grateful. It
is instant relief when others fail. Remember, I use no
salve no harness, no lies.
The above is C. E. BROOKS, who has been
Curir.g Rupture for over 30 years.
If Ruptured write to him to-day.
I make it to your measure and send it to you on a
strict guarantee of satisfaction, or money refunded, and
I have put my price so low that anybody, rich or poor,
can buy it. I send on trial to prove what I say is true.
You are the judge ; and nhce having seen my illustrated
book and read it, you will be as enthusiastic as thousands
of patients whose letters are now on file in my office. Fill
in this free coupon and post to-day,
FREE INFORMATION COUPON.
C. E. BROOKS, 115 a Bank Bldjrs., Kingsway,
London, England.
Please send me by post in plain wrapper your
Illustrated Book and full information about your
Appliance for the cure of rupture.
NAME .
ADDRESS
Please write plainly.
JOSIAH WEDGWOOD & SONS, LTD.
Registered Trade Mark, “WEDGWOOD.”
Established at Etruria, England,
1760 A.D.
as Manufacturers of
CHINA, EARTHENWARE, TEA
and DINNERWARE, TOILET-
WARE and ARTISTIC POTTERY
of all Kinds.
IMPORTANT. —AII our Goods are
branded “ WEDGWOOD ” only. Any
addition such as “ & Co.” means you
are not buying- “ Wedgwood.”
Sole Agrents for
Australasia—
WM. HODGE * SON
91a York Street, Sydney; and
29 Elliott Street, Auckland.
A PIPE OF SMOKE JOY—
A PIPE OF “NIMROD’
Tourists who have smoked all grades of Tobacco in a dozen
different climes say that */ Nimrod ” is the choicest and most
palatable Tobacco they have enjoyed. Its natural, aromatic
and delightful flavor pleases all. Fine (Wafer) and Medium cut.
Jib., 2/-; posted, 2/3
11b., 7/6; posted, BJ3
£ lb., 3/9; posted, 4/3
3 Ib., 21/-; posted, 22/3
KISMET CIGARETTES, Virginian and Turkish
VIRGINIAN. *
10 in a box, 9d.; posted, 10d.
25 in a box, 1/9; posted, 1/11
50 in a box, 3/6; posted, 3/10
10 J in a box, 6/6 ; posted, 7/-
TURKISH.
10 in a box, 1/-; posted, 1/1
25 in a box, 2/6 ; posted, 2/8
50 in a box, 5/- ; posted, 5/4
100 in a box, 9/-; posted, 9/6
ANDREW McGEE
Sydney’s Leading
Tobacconist,
5 & 7 CASTLEREAGH ST., corner Hunter St., SYDNEY.
THE FOUNTAIN PEN
that fills itself and
cannot leak is British
made.
You know it by
reputation of course
—the Onoto—but are you using it
yourself—taking advantage of its great
convenience?
No other pen*is like it —no
other pen is always ready for
use—no other pen never leaks—
or fills itself from any ink
supply. Cleans itself in filling.
Don’t put off. Go to-day
and buy an
Onoto
Self-Filling - -
Safety Fountain
Pen
May be obtained from all stationers, jewellers, and
stores, price 12/- and upwards.
Write for free booklet telling all about it to Thos. De La
Rue & Co., Ltd., 365 Bunhill Row, London, E.C., or the
Australasian Representative, Norman Baker, 50 York
Street, Sydney.
important— For those.who require a larger pen with a very flexible nib, a
apecial model—the new G—has this year been put on the market.
It is exceptional value for the money. Xry this new Gat your stationers.
JLlso ask for Onoto Ink—the best for fountain and all other pens.
GET A “PLUM” RAZOR NOW.
Yes, get a lovely little “Plum"—the razor that just
glides over the toughest stubble and never drags a single
hair. Blade is ringing silver steel, that takes little strop-
ping—we put the edge on each razor before it goes out, and
being practical hairdressers know how to do so. We guar-
antee to keep all “ Plums” sold in order for two years free
of charge.
PLUM RAZOR
10/6
Post Free anywhere.
The C. & A. Mous-
tache Trainer
makes .and keeps
the moustache any
shape you want it.
Worn at niyht.
2/6 POST FItEE. j
Single Razor. Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-
PLUM RAZOR, in Case, 10/6.
Pair in Case, 21/-
SAFETY RAZORS from 5/6.
The Plum Razor Strop, 10/6 and 7/6.
Other good kinds from 3/6 each.
Universal Shaving Soap, 6d.
Razoieo Lightning Sharpener, 6d.
All the above Post Free.
We Grind and Set Razors, 1/- each.
Send for our Free Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George St., Sydney.
Established 30 Years.
RUBBER GOODS
FOR MECHANICAL AND
DOMESTIC PURPOSES.
\X/HENEVER you need anything-of rubber, you
vv will find it profitable to send your order to
us. If we do not carry the particular line in our
stock, we will probably be able to make it, for our
local factory is equipped with modern machinery
and manned by an efficient staff.
FOR ENGINEERS AND MINING MEN
We make Valves, Sheet Rubber, Insertions,
“Titan” Jointings, Hose and Packings of all
descriptions.
FOR HOUSEHOLD USE
We make Fruit Jar Rings, Wringer Rollers, Rub-
ber Mats, Gas Tubing, Bed Sheeting, “ Titan ” Hot
Water Bags, Rubber Door Springs and Stops,
Rubber Plugs for Baths and Basins, Waterproof
Bath Curtains, etc.
Write for special list on the line
in which you are interested.
PERDRIAU RUBBER CO., LTD.
“The Best House for all Rubber Goods,"
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
S T JACOBS
OIL
Cures
RHEUMATISM
and Bodily Aches and Pains.
Of all Chemists and Stores
TROUCHET’S
DIURETIC
KIDM&BMDDER
REMEDY
A CORRECTIVE
OF THE
(JRINARV
ORGANS
fg|
IT IS
ALSO A
SPLENDID
TONIC
Obr&m&h/e s// ChF>mrsfs
| CLARTON,HODGSON & C? 1/T?
Sole Austm/asiem Agents. 73 YORK ST.SYDNEY
%
Fai uhg
<s
THREE WITCHES
CIGARETTES.
MORRIS*
Wtcnes'
Mirrrt*
Htvffll
for
Him-
HIGHEST GRADE.
6s per IQO, Post Free.
MICK SIMMONS, SYDNEY.
Storekeepers and Tobacconists should
send for our Trade Hists.


Missing: Friends.
WT ANTED.—SAMPSON BEAMISH
T T BENNETT, Native of Ireland. Last
heard of at Tambo, Barcoo River, Queens-
land, 10 years ago. If alive would now be
over 80 years old. Information desired as to
present whereabouts, or if dead, as to place
and time of death. Apply FOXTON,
HOBBS & MACNISH, Solicitors, Brisbane.
A NIoNE knowing- the whereabouts of CHARLES
** W. PILLING, late of Tas., would they please
communicate with his brother, THOMAS PILLING,
Shipwrights’ Point, Huon, Tas.
Amusements.
Lyric and colonial theatres
Nos. 1 and 2, George Street, Sydney.
Direction J. D. Williams.
PERPETUAL MOTION from 11 a.m. to 11 p.rii.
PATRONISED BY 60,000 PEOPLE WEEKLY.
Run Under the Continuous Show System now the Rage
of England and America.
English and American Prices of Admission.
Same Prices at Each Theatre :
STALLS 3d. DRESS CIRCLE 6d.
ENTIRE CHANGE OF PROGRAMMES TWICE
WEEKLY : MONDAYS and THURSDAYS.
Afternoon Tea is Popular. Afternoon Pictures are the
Rage.
We Cater Specially for Ladies and Children During
Morning and Afternoon Sessions.
Ladies’ Retiring Rooms and Lady Attendants.
If it is to be seen anywhere you will see it at our
Thpnlrpt!
THE WORLD IN MOTION.
We want you to compare our Programmes and our
Theatres with others which charge twice our prices of
Admission.
THE GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS
AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
INTERNATIONAL PICTURES. COLONIAL
THEATRE BUILDINGS, 610 George Street, Sydney.
Mr. W. J. Morgan, General Manager.
This Company supplies the Lyric and Colonial Theatres
with all their photo plays, and also supplies the leading
photo play concerns throughout Australasia. In fact,
we supply more shows with pictures than any other
three (3) concerns combined.
Don’t forget, Mr. Showman, to write or call.
We have the money-getters. We do not represent any
one firm of photoplay manufacturers, but we represent
all the best. WE HAVE THOUSANDS OF EXCLUSIVE
SUBJECTS-EVERY ONE A WINNER.
Branches: Sutton Buildings, Melbourne ; Courier Build-
ings, Brisbane ; Wellington, New Zealand; London,
England: Dewar House, Haymarket.
Just address your wire to “International Pictures.”
That’s sufficient.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager: J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45 SHARP.
Mr. J. 0. WILLIAMSON presents
“The Greatest of all Pantomimes,”
JACK and THE BEANSTALK
PLAN AT PALING'S.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Lessee & Manager .. J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
L4ST .TWO NIGHTS of THE DOLLAR PRINCESS.
SATURDAY NEXT, JUNE 10,
Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON presents, for the First Time in
Australia, THE LIVELY MUSICAL PLAY,
THU BALKAN PRINCESS.
By THE NEW COMIC OPERA COMPANY.
Box Plan at'-paling’s. Prices as usual.
CRITERION THEATRE. SYDNEY.
Lessee: FRANK MUSGROVE.
A SUCCESS OF PLAY AND PLAYERS.
CLARKE AND MEYNELL’S NEW OPERA COMPANY
in that Notable Musical Success,
THE GAY GORDONS.
Box Plan at ELYY’S. PRICES AS USUAL.
A DELPHI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction and Management., Gkohge Marlow, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING, AT 7.50,
UNDER TWO ELAGS.
Special Dramatic Adaptation of “ Ouida’s ” World Famous
Novel ON A SCALE OF UNPRECEDENTED SPLENDOR.
Interpreted by the full strength of GEORGE MARLOW’S
BRILLIANT DRAMATIC COMBINATION.
See Cigarette’s Famous Ride in full view of the audience
on real Arab Horse. POPULAR PRICES—3s., 2s. & Is.
Box Plan at Elvy’s and Theatre.
HE LYCEUM
EVERY EYENING AT 8.
M ati hees -Wednesdays . Saturdays and Holidays at 2 50.
C PENCER'SHTf ATRESCOPE <P.
J PICTURES
•» /t&E 3 OPE ft rOR TO /til OTHERS. «,
Popular Prices Plait at PAHNoa.
NEW /PRINCESS THEATRE
(Late BIJOU, next to Glaciarium).
Also PALACE THEATRE, SYpNEY.
COLOSSAL PEOPLE’S ENTERTAINMENTS BY
WEST’S PICTURES, LTD.
“BEST OF ALL.”
FAMILY MATINEES—WEDNESDAY, 2.30.
DE GROEN’S VICE-REGAL ORCHESTRAS.
(id. to 2/- Plan at Nicholson’s (Fee, 6d. extra).
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor & Manager—Mr. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS.
EUNICE and ZENA. Instrumentalists and'Vocalists.
COLUMBIA COMEDY TRIO, Burlesque Operatic Vocalists
MDLLE. BLANCHE CHARMEROY, Parisian Comedienne
THE KAA r ANAGH BOYS, Novelty Club Jugglers and
Racquet Spinners. SCOT GIBSON, Scotch Comedian.
FANNY POWERS, Comedienne and Mimic.
THE AUSTRALIAN DARTOS, Whirlwind Dancers.
And a GREAT COMPANY of Established Favorites.
PRICES—3s., 2s. and Is. Plan at Paling’s.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE^
Sole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
BLACK and WHITE Lady Acrobats.
KELDINE and KLIMO, Comedy Trick Cyclists.
MR. R. A. ROBERTS, Protean Actor in Ringing
the Changes.
PEGGY PRYDE, Comedienne.
FRED BLUETT, Comedian.
Plan at Allan's. J3T PRICES—3s., 25., ls<
THE KING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■ Sole Lessee and Manager : William Anderson.
SATURDAY NEXT, JUNE 10.
WM. ANDERSON'S NEW DRAMATIC ORGANISATION,
in the Great Naval Drama,
A WOMAN OF PLEASURE.
Reappearance of MISS EUGENIE DUGGAN.
Box Plan at Allan's. PRICES-Ss., 2s. and Is.
|_| ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
* ■ Lessee and Manager :J. C. Williamson, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING,
Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON presents
OUR MISS GIBBS.
By an Exceptionally Strong Cast.
Plan at Allan’s. PRICES—S/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/-.
pRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
SATURDAY NEXT, JUNE 10.
HARRY PLIMMER & REYNOLDS DENNISTON CO. in
NOBODY’S DAUGHTER.
Played Wyndham’s Theatre, London, Seven Conseculive
Months.
PRICES AS USUAL. Plan at Allan’s.
%A# E S T’S PALACE, MELBOURNE.
the best WEST’S PICTURES, THE best
OF ALL. LIMITED. OF ALL.
Managing Director : Mr. T. J. West.
NIGHTLY AT 8.
Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays & All Holidays at 2.30.
The Greatest Pictorial Enterprise in the World.
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
Any Moving Picture Worthy of Note always to be seen at
WEST’S PICTURES. Complete Change every week.
Prices—6d. to 2s. Box Plan at Glen’s.
W IRTHS OLYMPIA.
.EVERY EVENING AT 8
Matinees-Wednesdays.Saturdays and Holidays at 230.
C PENCER'SIiTEATMJCOPE <?.
J PICTURES
suPE/ziorz ro /ill
Popular Ppices .»»- Plan as Usual
LYRIC THEATRE, Chapel Street, Prahran, Vic.
EVERY NIGH! at 8. MATINEE, SATURDAY, at 2.30
THE FAMOUS “NON-FLICKER”
PHOTOPLAYS
on the Marvellous " Mack ” Screen, together with the
Superb LYRIC ORCHESTRA. 6d. to 2s. Plans at
Allan’s, C. M. Read’s and the Lyric Theatre Caf4.
JHEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING,
CLARKE AND MEYNELL’S GREAT
DRAMATIC PRODUCTION,
THE WOMAN IN THE CASE.
Plans at Allan’s. PRICES AS USUAL.
MELBOURNE REPERTORY THEATRE.
Director: Gregan McMahon.
INAUGURAL PERFORMANCES :
JUNE 26, JULY 3—“ THE TWO MR. WETIIKRBYS”
and “ THE CRITIC.”
JUNE 29, JULY 6—“ JOHN GABRIEL BOItKMAN,”
At the TURN VEREIN HALL.
Tickets, 45., 35., Is. 6d. : Sets of Six Tickets, 215., 155.,
6s. ; on sale at Allan’s and Book Lovers’ Library.
BOX PLAN ,at ALLAN’S, JUNE 22. Prospectus on
application at Oxford Chambers, Bourke Street.
Town hall, Melbourne.
Direction of J. & N. Tait.
THREE RECITALS by
LEONARD BORWICK,
“THEGREATEST OF ALL ENGLISH PIANISTS.”
“ Leonard Borwick plays Chopin with a spirit and
verve, and a degree of lightness and delicacy which is not
only enchanting in itself, but, coming from an English-
man, is something phenomenal.” —Zeitung Munich.
BOX PLAN OPENS at ALLAN’S, JUNE 21.
BOOKS WORTH READING. The new
guide to the new fiction appears in each
issue of The Lone Hand.
Pre*emment
as the Queen of Dress Fabrics is the
LOUIS
VELVETEEN,
with all its charming lustrous
finish; draping exquisitely to suit
the clinging fashions of the day—
yet sold at a price within the
reach of all.
DO NOT TOLERATE A SUBSTITUTE.
Every Yard you buy
phould be stamped L.'O'U'l'S
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Prize Medals^
Works t Birmingham, England.
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
■
■V.V.V
;.vK
MM
mmm
mm
v%v
WM
m
SSS
•m
OR
HERE is no more
suitable fabric than
1 “ VIYELLA ” from
which to make pyjamas.
This fabric provides
warmth and cosiness, ex-
ceptional softness to the
skin, and its texture is
such as to keep the body
at a normal temperature
while allowing the free
passage of air.
Its durability means
that it will resist severe
treatment, and it does not
shrink.
The “VIYELLA”
name is a guarantee of
the good qualities of the
material. See it on the
selvedge of the cloth.
To be obtained from
the leading Stores in each
town.
fed)
ISON
r*
c
Y
J
9
w
•/
m
rn
K
JL
•e*
PHONOGRAPHS
THE EDISON PHONOGRAPH was invented by Thomas
Alva Edison, and is the only sound-reproducing instrument
that has had the continuous service of the great inventor. It
is still controlled by Mr. Edison, and it still has the constant
benefit of his efforts as an inventor and his advice as a scientist.
No other sound-reproducing instrument has so distinguished a
man at its head.
The Edison is the only type of machine in which the tone volume is right
for the home ; in fact, its tones are modulated so as to be most pleasing when
played in the rooms of the average house. The noisy, scratchy machine
played by your neighbor is not an Edison.
There is nothing in the whole range of music that the Edison Phonograph
cannot reproduce as well, or better than, any other machine. "Mechanically it
has no equal; its construction is a marvel of workmanship and material.
You ought to know more about the Edison. There is a model to suit
everybody’s means, from the Gem at £2/12/6 to the Amberola at £45.
Get complete lists from your dealer, or from us.
NATIONAL PHONOGRAPH CO. OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.
(Wholesale Only), Dept. 8., 364-372 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.


The Elite
Eau de Cologne
I
A'ii'l]
&
WSiS^B
m
sTsref'ca-sra r
K.
S*~~.
l—~T
nflatWTfJ
SSSE&IEi«J|
■ iSlIi i ll»
%
#ij|| -ri; i
.'. m \* r*
F.WOLFFaSOHN
-KARLSRUHE
!'|j| :i! , !Hii|!;;|g
Triumph of
Modern Science
Uiit'aniii ble from all leading establishments
THE GEM SEWING AWL;
EVERYBODY CAN USE IT.
Repairs Bags,
2S. Posted.
<AwI, 2 needles,
* reel cotton.)
Belts, Straps, Harness, Boots, Shoes ; Sews
Carpets, Canvas, Blinds, Tarpaulins
etc., etc;, with a LOCK-STITCH.
Its immense value in repairs to Boots
and Shoes is now well known, and in
repairs to Bags, Belts, Straps, etc,, it
[is the “ Awl-you-want.” Thread from the
feel (which may be kept in one's pocket) is
supplied continuously—a great advantage,
apparent in sewing Carpets, Canvas, Blinds, Tarpaulins, etc:
Needles are interchangeable, extra ones can always be obtain,
•d. Stout or Fine, Bent or Straight. t
PRICE—Gem Sewing Awl (polished wood handle, brass
fittings, brass bobbin, 2 steel needles—j bent, 1 straight— 1 reel
prepared cotton), 2s. complete, post free. Extras : Cotton,
5d., post free. Needles (stout or fine, straight or bent), 4d.,
post free: 2 for jd., set of 8 for 2s. Send postal note to
STAR NOVELTY CO., 229 Colling Street, Melbourne.
THE DAZZLES
ELEctrk
03533
Best Pocket Lamp on the market. Instantly available—
press the button and a brilliant light floods forth. Can’t bow
out ; no smoke, no oil, no matches. Powerful simple battery,
can be re-charged with water. Strong case, fits the hand and
fits the pocket. A wonderful demonstration of the every-day
utility of electricity, as light i* quite safe near gunpowder,
gas, naphtha, etc. A novelty, and good fun—may be used
m a hundred mirth-provoking ways. Fitted with new 2-cell
battery (having 6 times the life of the old style 3-cell) and
new metallic filament lamp (giving a brighter light on less
current than the old carbon lamp). Lamp, complete. 65.,
post free. Extra cells when required, is. 9d. ; bulb lamps to
fit, is. 9d., post free. Scarf-pin lights, to attach, 3s. 6d. Send
postal notes.
STAR NOVELT7 CO., 229 Collins Street, Melbourne.
“ KURLO ’’-Hair-Curling Fluid. Beautiful
wavy hair is most admired. “ Kurlo “ produces
most natural-looking waves or curls in a lew-
days. Very little trouble ; no tongs or pins re-
quired. “ Kurlo ” curls are not affected by fog,
sea air, heated ballrooms, etc. May be used
for I.adies’, Gent’s or Children’s hair. Neither sticky
nor greasy; makes the hair soft and silky. Bottles,
2s. 6d., post free, in plain wrapper. American Toilet
Agency, Box 466 G.P.0., Melbourne.
a
-&A.
" GRO-A-MO ’’ forces growth of moustache and whis-
kers. Bottles, 25., post free, in plain wrapper.
American Toilet Agency, Box 466 G.F.0.. Melbourne.
Medlcator, size
3i laches long.
with 4 months
Address:
Melbourne.
WHAT IS CATARRH ?
Catarrh is inflammation of tiie lining
membrane of the nose and adjoining
passages. If this inflammation is not ar-
rested it invades the passages which lead
from the nose to the head, ears, throat and
lungs. It injures the sight and hearing,
destroys the sense of taste and smell, ren-
ders the breath offensive, breaks down
the affected tissues, and consumes the
nasal cartilages. The discharge, passing
through the lungs and stomach, causes
dyspepsia, also consumption. Do you
want relief and cure I If so, try our
great remedy.
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR cures Catarrh,
Hay Fever, Catarrhal Deafness, Head-
ache, Neuralgia, Colds, Bronchitis, Asth-
ma. Write for booklet free, or send
Postal Note ros. for Medicator complete
treatment, post free anywhere. *
Star Novelty Co., 209-231 Collins Street,
(Box 466, G.P.0.)
TT;/v?r~ h:
THE DRUM
IN POSITION
(INVISIBLE)
DEAFNESS
And HEAD NOISES Relieved by
Using WILSON'S COMMON-SENSE
EAR-DRUMS.
A scientific invention entirely different
in construction from all other devices.
They have restored hearing when other
devices fared and medical skill gaverno
relief. Soft, comfortable and invisible;
no wire or string attachment.
Write for Pamphlet. Mention this paper.
STAR NOVELTY CO., *29 Collin*
Street, Melbourne.
“LINSEED COMPOUND”— Trade Mark of Kay’s
Compound Essence of Linseed for Coughs and Colds.
MEDLOW BATH, Blue Mountains, W.S.W.
MAJESTIC HOTEL.
COMPLETE arrangements have been made by the new proprietor (Mr. W. H. Burg-ess), late of the Grand
Hotel, Melbourne, for the comfort of visitors during the forthcoming season.
Medlow Bath is an ideal resort. The crisp mountain air is a delight, and the mountains in their
Spring garb, appeal to lovers of the picturesque. Arrangements can be made at the Hotel for’motors
carriages and riding tours. ' ’
Motor parties can be arranged any time to start from the City Office—or 3-our own residence—direct
to the Majestic Hotel.
To pedestrians Medlow offers ever-varying attractions. The views in the mountains are superb and
hours can be spent in walks through the Hotel grounds. 1 ’
Hot-air pipes are laid in many rooms. Daily Motor trips are made from the Hotel to Jenolan Caves.
Further particulars can be obtained from the Hotel, or from the Sydney Offices 42 Castlereavh Street
W. H. BURGESS, Proprietor.
NATURAL
ENOS
HEALTH-GIVING
FRUIT
REFRESHING
SALT
INVIGORATING
r-r
K Magic
si
♦
YOU all know the “ man who does the
tricks ” at the party—don’t you ?
Makes everybody laugh, puzzles and tricks
them, and they can’t tell how he does it.
YOU can be as clever and funnj as he by
the use of our Tricks, Novelties and Magic Surprises. Very simple if you follow the instructions with each
Write for Free Catalogue of Makers
of Mirth and Mystery.
The Wonderful Gyroscope and
Mono=rail Top.
Perfect demonstration of the railroad of
the future. This marvellous top defies
the laws of gravity and equilibrium.
Spins in any position—on top of finger,
end of nose, edge of tumbler, etc. Baffles
Science, delights children, astounds
adults. The more you spin it, the more
it will puzzle you.
Post Free 1/3, or Larger Size, 2/3.
ffrfrfp
CO
Chinese Ring Bar Puzzle.
Endless amusement. The idea is to
remove the handle from the rings. Looks
so simple, yet puzzles them all till they
know how. Well made of solid polished
brass. Fits vest pocket. Write for it
to-day, enclosing stamps for amount.
1/- Post Free.
The Wonderful Plate=Lifter.
Will make your friends’ plates and cups dance quite
unexpectedly as they sit at meals. No
one can see the cause ; works quite im-
perceptibly from the other end of the
table. Shrieks of laughter. 1/- post free.
The Wizard Fortune-
Telling Cards.
Endless interest. Lends
a new charm to pre-
dicting- fortune. Sim-
ple to use.
Wondrous Disappearing
Handkerchief Trick.
This handkerchief makes anythin#
disappear. Very effective.
1/3 Post Free.
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
(H. L. HUTCHINSON, LTD.)
710 GEORGE STREET,
111 KING STREET,
25-27 OXFORD STREET,
SYDNEY.
STEVENS
FAVORITE RIFLE NO. 1 7
‘THE BULL’S EYE KIND.”
Pioneer Small Bore Arm of Efficiency. For .22 Long Rifle, .22-7-45 Winchester
R. F., .25 Stevens and .32 Long rim-fire cartridges.
All Progressive
Cealers handle
iTEVENS.
Write for Catalogue to
ARTHUR H. HILL, Australian Represent-
ative for Stevens Arms and Tool Co.,
Box 86, G.P.0., Adelaide, S. Australia.
Send lor latest Fire-
arm, Telescope and
Stevens - Pope Cata-
logues. [2
NEW
Queensland Railways.
Thousands of men will be working on
these shortly, and the wise ones will
wear our
Signal Brand
Boots
especially made for this work.
EACH PAIR GUARANTEED.
Take no other brand if you wish for
satisfactory wear.
Demand them from your storekeeper.
MADE WITH UNION LABOR.
Have
Green
Soles.
rm
THE
IRECIS
DUCK
TERED)
Have
Green
Soles.
The Davey Halliday C®- a
BRISBANE, Q.,
SOLE MANUFACTURERS.
“What we have for
Breakfast and Supper.”
Van
Houten’s
Cocoa
is the lightest &
most digestible
A PERFECT COCOA.
RHEUMATISM
Packets, 3d., 6d. and Is.
[2a
Michelin
Tyres.


OUR SPECIAL SNAPS.
Stevens’ 11 FA VORITE”
22 WR F or 22 Calibre Rim Fire, half-octagon 22in. barrel,
// vv.n.r.. u. breech block, takedown action, open front and rear sights, «c '
case-hardened frame, aohdbree£ _>>« g w 3/2 Inter -State. 20/'
Wel We"can supply the above Rifles fitted with Beach Combination Front Sight and Vernier Rear 37/6
25 or 32 Rim Fire Calibres, same description as above, 2/6 each
“ The Continental/' 5.8.8. L. Bicycle Collector Gun,
410 bore finest Siemen’s steel barrel, side lever action, solid or skeleton, walnut stock, case
hardened locks, 24in. .barrel, length over all 38i.n weight about 41b. A sple qq.
gun for use in Orchards.
Postage—ls. 9d. N.S.W., 3s. 2d. Inter-State.
MICK SIMMONS, Ltd
WINCHES" ER
TRADE MARK
1906
Winchester Repeating Rifle, 1906 Model,
16 shot, 20in. round barrel, plain trigger, straight
for 22 short, long or long rifle cartridges.
p, slide action,
4216
Send for our Illustrated Sports,
Fishing and Tobacco Lists, FREE.
••The Continental” C
12- or 16-gauge, top lever, 30-in<
Greener cross bolt, rebounding
stock, snap fore-end, weight 12
Head Depot,
Branches Hunter St.,
Sydney; Church St., F
K8.8.L. EJECTOR Gun,
ch Siemen’s steel barrels, both choke.
Delivered, £3/15/-
HAYMARKET, SYDNE y >N‘?-W-
-, Newcastle ; 273 Darting 1i97 Oxford St.,
arramatta ; 113 King St., NeWtown.
Schute, Bell & Go.
' LIMITED
Wool Stores: Central Wharf. Produce Stores:
Quay. Offices :44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Do not sell Fat Stock,
but only Wool, Sheepskins,
Hides, Tallow, etc., and
Marsupial & Rabbit SklnSh
Each head of the Company a Worker
in the interests of their constituents.
Proceeds protected Trust Aocount
Bank of N.S.W.
$
CADI C
(•AftTKR
The CONVINCING MERIT
of the Eadie Coa»ter should appeal strongly to
every cyclist who appreciates combined sim-
plicity and lightness, together with unequalled
efficiency. Thi
EADIE COASTER
contains the brake "that always acts”—a brake
that is efficient under any circumstances and
one which answers immediately to the slightest
backward pressure of the pedals. There are no
troublesome rods or levers to operate and the
bicycle is always under perfect control. With
the j
EADIE TWO-SPEED COASTER
you have the Eadie Coaster Efficiency combined
with the advantage of a variable gear. Send
for a free copy of the B.S. A. Handbook and
learn more about these famous Hubs, and the
equally famous B.S. A. Fittings-
D. Y . RENNIE
(Representing B-S.A. Co- Limited)
S Stock Exchange Building, MELBOURNE
ANTHONY HORDERNS* UNIVERSAL BICYCLE.
Built of genuine B.S.A. Parts with EADIE Two»speed Coaster Hub.
Free Wheel on both gears, and Dunlop Tyres. As ridden by
FRANCIS BIRTLES. £l2 10s. Write for Price List, post free.
Anthony Hordern ®. Sons,
Only Universal Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
Discomfort
of Indigestion
Is usually th£ Jesuit
of improper food*
Right food will correct the
trouble* p
Grape-Nuts
is a predigested, scientifically
made, pure food that nourishes
and strengthens the weakest
stomach.
“There’s a Reason”
DOCTOR ON FOOD.
Experimented on Himself.
A physician says : “For the last few
years I have been a sufferer from
gestion, and although I have used
various remedies and prepared foods
with some benefit, it was not until I
tried Grape-Nuts that I was completely
cured.
“ Asa food it is pleasant and agree-
able, very nutritious, and is digested
and assimilated with very little effort
on the part of the digestive organs.
“As a nerve food and restorer it has
no equal, and, as such, is especially
adapted to students and other brain
workers. It contains the elements
necessary for the building of nerve tis-
sue, and by so doing maintains ail
equilibrium of waste attd repaid
“ It also enriches the blood by giving
an increased number of red blood cor-
puscles, and in this way strengthens
ail the organs. I take great pleasure
in recommending its use to my pa-
tients, for I value it as a food and
know it will benefit all who use it.”
GRAPE-NUTS
Revised Rules for the Game of Five Hundred sent to
any address for a penny stamp. Grape-Nuts,
Box 98, G.P.0., Sydney.
BOOKS YOU CAN’T GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
«■ raving's new 1908 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrib
England, 6d. How to Get Rich, is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is postal.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, - latest edition, 3s (3d- posted. Riddle of the.
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints,.
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mech anics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Quadrille Call Book,
2s Adventures of a Flirt, Is. 3d. Parlor: Tricks
and Games, Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
Is 2d All Tiie Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide); price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids,** Baldheads, etc., Is 2d post.
Fquality 9d Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. * S.andow’s Book of Strength, 3s. posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Fiagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ss. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford) 9d The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and' My Neighbor, 6d. Britain for the
British 6d. How to Read Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, ls6d,
M
%
■
i
HOME cyclopedia
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR "PLAIN HOME TALK.*
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain iangua e a thc,
«and questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but abc t
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage' which makes it a superior guide to the action omen and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman w
anticmates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life lnits
fullest?!sense, can afford to dispense with the information embrace
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will v posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
TO THE COMMONWEALTH.-!!
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS— LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc.. Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyles
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River, ds 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is 3d posted. , Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Easy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is ; post
Is 2d. Electricity' Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Scuoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers Handybook, Is M.
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Elements of So
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougall Topped the Score &
Other Verses, Is 3d. The Gay Count, Is 3d. 1 RF.nch
Self Taugiit, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver s Ouidf.,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb]Mi’
Decameron of BoccaCcio, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bruib of the I msr
Night Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. JjAY
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got It.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. D* - Established, 25 1 ear s .
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OP MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT.
Write tor my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How TO Make Up, Illustrated. Guide to the Stage, Is
nosted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
Is. Old Busii Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dr. Milford s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made ls.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions of the Ring,
Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. 6d., Secret
History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post.
INGERSOLL’S WORKS, Bd, 2S. HOW TO READ HEADS
(jas Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse s Advice to a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2 ® each
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wipes Handbook,
is 2d Dosted Fruits of Philosophy, Is post. 100 New
reckons and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness AND
Pttrtt is 2d Dosted. Webster s Large uji
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 i llu s-, leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (whypay3 and
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is
mos and ; Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore s Uni vers.
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound"' los 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (woi ds and music com-
plete), is 6d posted. The Age of Reason. ™’
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.


CHILD BITTEN BY A SPIDER.
“ For weeks she could not put her foot to the ground.”
REXONA PROMPTLY CURES.
yyi Y little girl, aged five, was bitten on her foot by a big black spider,
with a red spot on its back,” writes Mrs. Fanny Kann, 133 Bridge
Street, Valley, Brisbane, Q. “ Her foot
was very swollen. For weeks she could
not put it to the ground. I thought she
would lose it, there was such a deep
hole in it. I tried all kinds of lotions and
ointments, and poulticed it, but nothing
seemed to reduce the swelling. I was
quite alarmed, it lasted so long. One
day I was at my mother’s place, and she
gave me a little Rexona Ointment to try.
The first time I used it I found it drew
all the poison and pain out of it, and
within a week the foot was cured, and
she was able to wear her boots again.
We never had such a good ointment be=
fore, and shall always keep a tin of it in
the house.”
There are so many uses for Rexona that a pot of this
New Rapid Healing Ointment should be kept in every
home: One day it may be useful to cure the bites of
Insects ; another day to heal the Cuts, Bruises or Scalds
which are for ever occurring: in everyday life. Again,
for the more serious complaints, such as Bad Legs,
Piles, Eczema, Ringworms, and the various forms of
Skin Disease, Rexona is a proved remedy.
EVERYONE Needs REXONA.
A SAMPLE POT OF REXONA FREE.
Cut out this Coupon, write your name and
address on the blank lines below, and post
to us, and we will send you a sample pot of
Rexona free, so that you may test it and
see what it is like. Rexona is so universally
successful that we want everyone to write
and get a free pot, for we feel sure that the
sample will convince you that there is a
remedy for you in Rexona, the Rapid Healer.
Name
Address
Out this out and post to Box 974,
G.P.0., Sydney.
In this Ointment are combined Juices and
Essences in an entirely new and unique manner,
forming- a remedy justly celebrated for its won-
derful rapid cures.
Rexona is sold only in triangular
pots at t/6 t or in larger pots holding
nearly four times the quantity at 3/-
o
THE RAPID HEALER
RAM
RIFE
PUMPS WATER
DAY AND NIGHT
AUTOMATICALLY.
Low in first cost, easy to instal, no expense to operate, any capacity desired for
Country Homes, Farms, Dairies, Gardens, irrigation, Town Plants, Railroad Tanks, etc.
RIFE HYDRAULIC RAMS
Eaise water 30 feet for every foot of fall.
Satisfaction guaranteed. Over 7000 in use.
If there is a stream, spring- or pond within a mile— Write for Free Plans and Book.
GET OUR FREE TRIAL OFFER.
2613 Trinity Bldg. RIFE ENGINE CO. New York.
DemonstratorAgentsWanted
Immense field open for Detroit Oil Engines. New invention permits operating on ordinary
lamp oil. Operates equally well on Petrol, Paraffin, Alcohol, Benzine, I fistillate, Naptha
or Coal Oil. No heating device required. Stationary Engines for farms, shops, and all
power purposes. Electric lighting outfits. Pumps and pumping outfits. Sawing out-
fits. Marine Engines for boats and Marine Reverse (*ears, Sizes 2-h.p. to ioo-h.p. One
to eight cylinders. Engines fully warranted and built to work. Liberal commissions
paid. Special wholesale price on first outfit in a community. Handsomely finished
demonstrator engine at no extra cost. Complete Illustrated Catalog mailed FREE.
Write for our proposition to agents and users of power. Bank references given.
Detroit Engine Works, 15 Meldrum Avenue, Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A.
HOLLOWAY’S
Pills ®, Ointment
A TRIAL of HOLLOWAY’S PILLS has meant
The Dawning 0/ » Brighter Day
to many a sufferer from liver, kidney and stomach
troubles. For over three-score years and ten they
have been supreme in all cases of biliousness,
headache, indigestion, depression and other com-
plaints which usually arise from constipation.
You should also use HOLLOWAY'S OINT-
MENT, which possesses remarkable healing
virtues in cases of skin affections and sores,
rheumatism, lumbago, sciatica, etc. See to
it that you always have a box and pot handy.
To be obtained from all Chemists, Stores,
etc.
Manufactured only at
113 SOUTHWARK ST. (late 78 Hew Oxford St.), LONDON, S.E.
Night and the Singer.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HE sgffron sunset loitered up, the pgss,
I Thep dropped into the day-jit fiinter-
land;
The blotted shadows, thrusting through the
grass,
Showed like the fingers of a Titan s hand ;
And shot with sudden silver, the lagoon,
Flaked with the splendor of the springing
moon.
The rutted side-track where the oxen go;
Lean, ghostly scandent limbs and shrivelled
bark;
And ever and again, beyond the glow,
The still white-columned forest and the
dark
Mottled in light and shade, and otherwhere
The reed-beds pattered like a monk at prayer.
Bull-throated, heavy-shouldered, bare of
breast,
Thewed as an ox is thewed, and tawny-
“ skinned,
The blue-eyed Singer spoke: “Is this the best
Life gives us—this, that men have spurred
and sinned?”
Then following, steady-eyed, the spiring
smoke,
Into the Dawn-Song of the Hewer broke:
“When the reddening ranges show and shape
Like a saw-blade washed with wine,
Ho! For the hills where the white scarves
gape,
And the lopped trunks lie a-line!
For the creeping dawn in the gully-gaps,
the sun-splashed boles aflame,
Hola! Ho!
For the kings that go,
And the pawns that play the game!
“Timed to the swing of the axe-tune's charm
Is the sweep of the gasping saw,
The level throw of the driving arm,
And the lift of the arms that draw,
The blundering crash and the canting fall,
When the bruised earth rocks and groans —
Hola! tie!
For the pawns that play
For the dead king's crown and bones!
“There is danger that whirls from the wheel-
ing dust
In the streets of the thirsty town —
Yet here is the shuddering backward, thrust
Of the brown trunk reeling down;
And a meagre inch is the margin-line
'Twixt, life and the leaping Death —
Hola! Ho!
For the hazard-throw,
And the gamblers' blood and breath!''
The Singer ceased, but twanging through
,oiir' blood
His strenuous music harped tumultuously;
The vast deep-throated valleys, the dim wood,
The rhythmic axe, the swaying white-
gapped tree
Crashing to lie the bearded creek along—
Ran, richly-clamorous, shouting through his
song.
Far down the listening air the Singer’s
rhyme
Drew into silence; yet we know, as then,
That it shall finger, through the aftertime,
The hidden hatp within the hearts of men.
Singing, in scattering chords, that world
that lies
Beyond walled gardens and a woman’s eyes.
VICTORIA.
J. ALEX. ALLAN.
Mr. Maunder’s Mistake.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
road stretched out dusty and unin-
I viting; the sun was setting behind a
bank of purple cloud.
The swag-laden Mr. Sharp, in a mood
made malignant by unaccustomed exercise,
hailed the lagging Mr. Maunder with acer-
bity.
“Carn’t ’elp it, Sam,” said the latter re-
signedly. “This ’ere walkin’s too like ’ard
work fer me. ’Ow much further, mate?”
“Reck’n that’ll be ole Lillicrapp’s shanty
standin’ back in the little bit o’ scrub yon-
der,” replied Mr. Sharp brusquely. “Now,
Jerry, yer know the programme, don’t yer?”
Mr. Maunder nodded. “Me an’ you’s
walkin’ round the world fer a bet o’ five
’undered p’und apiece,” he began, with the
air of one rehearsing a task ; “an’ knowin’
him to ’ave bin a great pede—pede—wot’s-
its-name, in ’is young days, we couldn’t pass
by ’is ’ouse without lookin’ in on him.”
“That's orright as fer as it goes,” said
Mr. Sharp with approval; “but yer mustn’t
fergit we gotter make ourselves sech conjoo-
gal eomp’ny that ’e’ll want us to spend the
night with ’im —’e lives orl alone an’
oughter be ou’y too glad o’ our ’igh-class
sassiety. I dessay ’e’ll be good-’earted
enuff to put up with you fer my sake, Jerry.
Well, I’ll git ’im torkin’, an’ then you’ll chip
in an’ say ’ow terrible tired you are arter
trampin' orl day long, so wot price bed?
Where did Bill say the ole bloke kep’ the
boodle ?”
“In a small wooden box in a little cup-
board openin’ out of ’is room,” prompted Mr.
Maunder.
“Good boy, Jerry,” commented Mr. Sharp
encouragingly. “You’ll slip in there while
me an’ ’im‘s busy yappin’, pinch the box an’
'ump it as fer as the gate, where you’ll ’ide
it among the bushes; that done, you'll come
back to the ’ouse an’ turn in. Presently
I’ll join yer, an’ then when the ole man’s
gone to roost, we’ll mizzle an’ find Bill
Smithers ready waitin’ on us with a ’orse
an’ trap. In two hours’ time—less’n two
hours’ time —we’ll be in Melbourne, safe
with the swag.”
“Reck’n Bill might ha’ drove us,” grumbled
Mr. Maunder. “Me feet are that crool sore
I kin ’ardly walk.”
“That wouldn’t never ’ave done, Jerry,”
said Mr. 'Sharp reprovingly. “Show a bit o’
sense. Ole Lillicrapp ain’t quite a fool, an
we gotter let ’im see we bin ’oofin’ it, else
’e’ll pass us out quick ’n’ lively. Now then,
’ere we are. Pull yerself together an look
as pleasant as that face o’ yers’ll let yer,
matey.”
jfle knocked modestly at the door of the
unpretentious building under whose galvan-
ised iron roof Mr. Jonah Lillicrapp lived a
life of comparative seclusion, a retirement
fostered by popular rumors regarding his im-
mense and hoarded wealth. The summons
was attended by the hermit himself, a tall,
gaunt old man with a bushy grey beard, and
a roving eye which rested with manifest
disfavor upon the applicants for admission.
“Wot d’yer want?” he demanded, aus-
terely. “I ain’t got nothink to say to tramps.
If I was to give to ev’ry cadgin’ loafer wot
come along I should be on the road meselt
in a week’s time.”
Mr. Sharp looked pained, not to say
shocked.
“Yer makin’ a mistake, guv’nor,” he said
with dignity; “but p’raps yer ain’t see’d the
papers lately. My name’s Joe ’Opkins, an’
this ’ere’s Peter Jolly. We’re walkin’ round
the world fer a wager o’ five ’undered p’und
apiece, an’ we couldn’t pass by yer ’ouse
without fust droppin’ in to shake ’ands with
the finest pede —pedestal in the ’ole of Ors-
tralia.”
Mr. Lillicrapp’s hairy countenance under-
went a sudden and remarkable change. He
beamed benevolently upon his athletic visi-
tors.
“Well, now, I take this real good-’earted
of you,” he declared warmly. “Come inside,
mates. No, I ain’t seen the papers the last
few days. Jest fancy—-round the world!
That whips me entirely. My biggest walk
was Melbourne to Sydney—beat orl records.
The noospapers was full of it at the time.
If you like I’ll read you wot they said about
me arter you’ve ’ad some tucker. Come
along inside. You mustn’t go no further to-
day; you’ve made a fairish start, and I can
five you both a shakedown for the night.”
le ushered his guests into a small room,
where a rickety table was littered with the
remains of a meagre repast. “I can’t offer
you much of a spread,” continued Mr. Lilli-
crapp, as he reinforced the table appoint-
ments with a knuckle of cold pork and a
couple of cracked cups; “but wot I ’ave
you’re welcome to. If there’s any think else
you want and don’t see, ask for it; if I’ve
got it you shall ’ave it; if I ain’t, you won’t.
Wot do you gin’rally walk on, mates?”
“Ho, we ain’t partic’lar,” replied Mr.
Sharp, truthfully. “One o’ the principal
clauses in the wager is we ain’t allowed to
carry no money in our pockets—we gotter
live on wot kind-’earted people give us be the
wayside Our steamboat passiges is paid
afore’and,” he added hastily, as he saw the
cold light of suspicion dawn in his host’s
venerable eye. “At Sydney we ’ope to ketch
the Maori fer ’Frisco.”
It was not until he had refreshed himself
with considerable meat and drink that Mr.
Maunder’s tongue was sufficiently loosened
to enable him to participate in a conversa-
tion which dwelt mainly upon the extraord-
inary feats of endurance sometimes accom-
plished by the redoubtable Mr. Lillicrapp.
“I’m a ’ole man, but I’d walk round the
world with ’im not once but twice over,” he
announced, indicating Mr. Sharp with a
stubby thumb. “Me an’ ’im’s been together
now fer I dunno ’ow many year. Never
separated fer more ’n three, or maybe six
months at a stretch, ’cordin’ to the charge
Sam intervened with celerity.
“Yer good feelin’s does yer credit, Jer —
Peter, meantersay,” he said with conviction.
“If ev’rybody on’y ’ad a ’eart like yers, wot
a world this ’ud be! But yer lookin’ dog-
tired, matey ; yer must take care o’ yourself—
yer ain’t as young as yer was twen’y year
agQ. P’r’aps Mr. Lillicrapp ’ere ’ll s’cuse
yer goin’ off to bed while ’e reads me them
interestin’ noospaper cuttin’s he was torkin’
about. Yer know we gotter make a early
start in the mornin’.” He gave Mr. Maun-
der a warning wink.
Nothing loth, Jerry took the hint, and for-
tified by his host’s benediction, retired to
rest in a small iron room, simply furnished
with two infirm stretener-beds.
For three interminable hours did the long-
suffering Mr. Sharp listen to lengthy remin-
iscences of his elderly entertainer’s past
efforts on road and track, a narration inter-
spersed with anecdotes, redounding to the
great personal glorification of the raconteur.
At last, however, Mr. Lillicrapp showed un-
mistakable signs of failing animation, and
Sam’s chastened spirits rose, especially when
the old gentleman unlocked a cupboard and
produced therefrom a bottle and two tum-
blers.
“Limejuice,” exclaimed Mr. Lillicrapp.
“Finest drink in the world if you’re in ’ard
trainin’ and want to keep fit. D’ you like
it sweetened or plain? I drink it plain me-
self. Lord! it’s grand stuff! Keeps me
alive, matey.”
“I wouldn’t git in the ’abit o’ takin’ it, if
I was you—it’s apt to lie a bit sour,” said
the disappointed Mr. Sharp, himself not
without acidity* as he accepted the proffered
glass.
“Nonsense ! Couldn’t ’ave a more whole-
somer drink. I does a tidy bit o’ walkin’ still
—collectin’ speciments for dealers in objecks
o’ nat’ral hist’ry. The curate o’ the Mel-
bourne Zoo is a dear ole cobber o’ mine.
Nex’ time you run acrost ’im, ask ’im if he
knows ole Jonah, and see wot he ses. I’m
takin’ a case inter ’im to-morrer. I’ve bin
up in the ’ills for the last fortnight, and on’y
got ’ome this mornin’. Glad I did, as it give
me the pleasure o’ meetin’ you and yer
mate.”
Mr. Sharp thanked him curtly, and seiz-
ing a favorable opportunity, emptied his
glass out of the window.
“When do you expect to be back in Mel-
bourne again?” inquired Mr. Lillicrapp, as
he, extinguished the lamp by a great effort of
lung power.
“To-morrer mornin’,” responded the ab-
sent-minded Mr. Sharp. “Meantersay to-
morrer mornin’ six year, punctual to the
day,” he corrected himself, grateful to the
darkness for hiding a spasm of unavoidable
confusion.
“This way—mind, there’s a step here.
•Test wait ’arf a moment while I strike a
light,” besought Mr. Lillicrapp, who wasn’t
listening.
He kindled a fag-end of candle, and by its
feeble glimmer the two men became aware
of the disreputable form of Mr. Maunder,
(Continued on next page.)


Piles
A Man’s Terrible Martyrdom—Suffering Always—
Life was a Misery—Other Remedies Prove Useless.
llllUlui
Zam-Buk is in-
valuable for
Cuts, Bruises,
Burns, Scalds,
Boils, Eczema,
Pimples, Sores,
Poisoned
Wounds, Bad
Legs, Ring-
worm, Barber’s
Rash, and all
injured and
diseased con-
ditions of the
skin. Of all
chemists and
stores at 1/6
per pot, and 3/6
family size (con-
taining nearly
four times the
1/6).
One of the greatest living
physicians, referring to piles,
says : —“ The pain is often so
intense that the patient feels
he can neither walk nor lie,
while in some cases the loss
of blood is so great as to con-
stitute a grave danger
The way in which piles yield to Zam-Buk
is nothing short of marvellous. The con-
centrated and wonderfully combined in-
gredients of which Zam-Buk is composed
take away the inflammation ; and the pain and
irritation, which at times almost amounts to
agony, is relieved the moment the healing balm
is applied.
Confirmation of this statement is furnished hy Mr. J.
Abood, of Albion Street, Warwick, Q., who says :
“ Three years ago I suffered all the agony incidental to
piles. At times I would pass nearly half a cupful of blood,
and became so distressed that life was perfect misery. I
suffered all the time when either standing or lying down. I
tried all sorts of ways and means in my endeavor to rid
myself of this miserable complaint, but the many so-called
remedies I used proved fruitless. At last I thought I would
give Zam-Buk a trial, and from the very first application of
the balm I derived relief. The burning inflammation
gradually subsided and the terrible pains were subdued,
and ten days after the first applications of Zam-Buk I was
completely cured of the piles. I feel convinced I had as bad
an attack of piles as any of my acquaintances, some of whom were
troubled for years, and they were astonished at the speedy cure Zam-
Buk had effected in my case.
“ I cannot speak too highly in favor of this wonderful balm, and
will never be without a pot. It is now three years since Zam-Buk
brought me ease and comfort, in place of torture and distress, and as I
have not had the slightest symptoms of piles since, I feel quite satis-
fied the cure is permanent.”
//*9yy/7y^
GW V ONIHJ-OOSjf
THE
QUESTION of the DAY.
The question of to-day,
of to-morrow and of
every succeeding; day is
have YOU USED PEARS’ SOAP ?
If you Have not, you Have not
done your duty Hy your skin and
complexion* If, on the otHer Hand
—tHat is, on botH Hands, and on the
face, and on the skin generally—you
HAVE- used PEARS, you can feel
Happy, for you will Have done the
best tHat possibly can be done tor
tHe skin’s HealtH and beauty* There
can be no question about tHat.
PEARS Has been making beautiful
complexions for nearly 120 years.
PEARS
Matchless for the Complexion*
that glided unobtrusively down a narrow
passage leading to the back door.
“Hullo!” exclaimed Mr. Lillicrapp rather
gruffly. “I thought your pal was in bed
and asleep this three hours.”
“ ’Ush ! Fer ’Eaven’s sake ’ush !” whis-
pered Sam excitedly. “Don’t take no notice
of ’im—-’e’s walkin’ in ’is sleep. Look at ’is
starin’ eyes. ’E’s that anxious to be movin’
that keep in ’is bed ’e cannot, try ’ow ’e will.
Ev’ry blessed night fer the last month ’e’s
started up orf ’is sleepless pillar the same
way. If you was to wake ’im sudden-like
it ’ud be ’is death. I’ll ’ave to foller ’im
now till ’e drops o’ eggs’austion. So long,
boss; s’cuse me runnin’ orf like this ’ere,
won’t yer? Ain’t it enuff to make a bloke’s
'eart bleed? See, the pore ole man’s ’umpin’
my swag as well as ’is own, sech a ’urry ’e
is to be takin’ the road.”
As the somnambulist vanished into outer
darkness, something distinctly resembling a
hoarse chuckle was drowned by Mr. Sharp
opportunely stumbling over a step that was
lying malevolently in wait for him.
“Well, if you must, you must,” said the
bewildered Mr. Lillicrapp. “I never ’eard
o’ sech a thing, not in orl me born days.
Lord! the ole ehap.’s game to the backbone.
I on’y ’ope he gits ’ome safe and lives to
spend that live ’undered pound—he’ll ha’
earned it honest, my word! So will you,
mate. Well, good luck to you both.”
“You gravy-eyed porkipine, you!” hissed
the incensed Mr. Sharp, as he overtook Mr.
Maunder half-way down the gardep path.
“You nearly botched the ’ole bloomin’ show.
Wodger want to go sneakin’ round with
them swags afore I was ready? If it ’adn’t
a-bin fer me kiddin’, ole Lillicrapp ’ud ha’
smelt a rat.”
“Save yer puff, Sam,” requested the porcu-
pine with acrimony. “Bill’s waitin’ on us
a chain or so along the road. ’E tol’ me
to git yer on the move some’ow. We begun
to think as ’ow you an’ the ole bloke ’ad
fallen asleep in one another’s arms. The
box is in the trap—orl we gotter do is clear,
quick ’n’ lively.”
“ ’Ark!” whispered Sam, holding up an
imperative hand. “Wot’s that? ’Ere,
dodge in among them bushes, sharp now!
Ole Lillicrapp’s twigged the rook. Lie low,
fer (law’s sake!”
Together they crouched behind a flowering
oleander, as a loud voice coming from the di-
rection of a hessian stable was heard angrily
adjuring an invisible recusant to “Come up,
and be damned !” A few moments later, Mr.
Lillicrapp, bestriding a shaggy and self-
opinionated pony, cantered within a yard of
the spot where Sam and Jerry lay ensconced.
“’E’ll run bung inter Bill,” murmured Mr.
Maunder, not without anticipation.
“S’truth! I’d give somethin’ to see Bill’s
ugly mug !”
“Shut yer fat ’ead, carn’t yer?” growled
Mr. Sharp ferociously. “Listen !”
“Wo ho! Stiddy, lass! Hullo! Who
the devil are you?” It was Mr. Lillicrapp
seeking information, menace in his tones.
“Where the blazes yer cornin’ to- —’ave yer
bought the ’ole blanky road?” counter-ques j
tioned Mr. Smithers gruffly. “If yer want
to know ’oo I am, strike a light an’ look at
the name on me collar—you’ll find me iden-
tity there in indelible markin’-ink.”
Mr. Maunder sniggered. “Good ole Bill!”
he remarked approvingly.
“No offence, mate,” resumed Mr. Lilli-
crapp’s voice in somewhat milder accents.
“Did you ’appen to run agin a couple o’
blokes goin’ your way? They’d be carryin’
swags and a small wooden box along o’
them.”
“Yus,” replied Mr. Smithers promptly.
“I didn’t take notice if they was ’umpin’ a
box, but I see’d two men—a dirty-lookin’ ole
chap with white whiskers, an’ a younger
bloke, undersized little monkey of a man—”
(Mr. Sharp muttered strange words beneath
his breath) —“goin’ as ’ard as they could
pelt down the road—that direction. D’yer
want ’em partic’ly?”
“My oath ! Do I not!” said Mr. Lillicrapp
with emphasis. “They’ve snatched a box o’
mine I wouldn’t lose for a ’undered quid.
The Lord knows wot they want with it
either. Told me they was walkin’ round
the world for a wager, and like a silly mug
I believed ’em. Thanks, matey. I’ll nail
them yet. Come up, lass !”
As the sound of cantering hoofs died away
in the distance, Mr. Sharp and his com-
panion emerged from their hiding-place and
made expeditiously for the road.
“Look alive —tumble in!” requested Mr.
Smithers, with an anxious backward glance
over his shoulder. “Wot a time you’ve
bin, Sam. It’s ’ell an’ leather now! I’ve
put the old ’un on the wrong scent, but ’e
won’t git fer afore ’e twigs I was on’y kiddin’
’im. Look slippy, Jerry ! Orl aboard. Ri’o
—git arp, there !”
The trap swung into the centre of the
track, and for sevei’al minutes the pace pre-
cluded anything in the nature of a sustained
conversation. At last, however, Mr. Sharp
rose from an uneasy stooping posture he had
adopted, and spoke: “Rum lookin’ box, Bill;
the lid’s drilled with little ’oles an’ wire-
netted over. S’pose it’s orl right, mate?”
“That’s to keep the yaller-boys from
jumpin’ out o’ nick,” explained Mr. Smithers,
who was in high good-humor at the success
of his scheme. “But ’ow the blazes did
ole man Lillicrapp come to- Look out
there, the road’s up! ’Old tight, Sam, fer
Gawd’s sake! Kim up, blarst yer!”
The moon shot suddenly from behind a
cloud as the trap tilted precariously, and
with a slide and a stumble the bony quad-
ruped in the shafts sank deliberately upon
its knock-knees. At the same instant, Mr.
Sharp, whose curiosity concerning the con-
tents of Mr. Lillicrapp’s alleged strong box
had prompted him to a searching investiga-
tion, uttered a yell of terror, and precipi-
tated himself sidelong into a ditch. Mr.
Smithers, giving vent to a peculiar guttural
exclamation, flung himself recklessly for-
ward, and pitching over the splash-board,
alighted at full length upon his prostrate
steed. Mr. Maunder, after accomplishing a
bodily contortion, remarkable in a man of his
mature years, made a vain but deteiunined
attempt to achieve the impossible, and sit
upon his own feet. Meanwhile half a dozen
lively and robust snakes, issuing from their
cramped place of confinement, flopped one by
one into the roadway, and went wriggling
off in all directions.
“ ’Oly Moses ! S’welp me. I’ll never touch
another drop!” Mr. Smithers’s quavering
voice would have moved the stoniest heart
to pity.
“On’y let me lay ’old o’ yer, Jerry, you
greasy ass! On’y let me lay ’old o’ yer!”
petitioned the enraged Mr. Sharp, as he
crawled painfully out of the ditch, and by
almost superhuman agility avoided the coils
of a reptile of undecided habits.
Mr. Maunder said nothing; fear and
amazement held him palsied and mute.
Every moment the ominous clatter of a
horse’s hoofs, coming at a hand-gallop, drew
nearer.
LAWRENCE B. JUPP.
An Autumn Evening Reverie.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
fHMHE gods that hold the ribbons of the
wind
Drive their cool steeds up from the icy
South
Over an Autumn road with sunshine gay;
Swathes of fine light the city’s forehead bind,
And blushing evening turns her face away
With wonder’s kisses burning on her mouth.
(To make my meaning very plain and clear,
The weather has grown colder, and the breeze
Is blowing from Tasmania. All the West
Is striped with red and yellow, and down
here
It’s getting almost dark enough to please
A pair of lovers who sit down to rest.)
With the long whisper of a chill delight
The glowing water ripples on the shore,
Full of the heart-break of all memory —
Dear memory trailing round her ankles white
The gossamer of dreams, and over me
Throwing the worn veils of the Nevermore.
(I know the past was sordid as a Jew,
Penurious, grasping for his cent, per cent.;
Weighing out joy in balances awry,
Eager to take and hold my I O U,
Till credit failed, and nothing but a sigh
Remained to tell the ivay youth's money
went.)
Dear God! Her lips were red, her cheeks
were pale.
What magic robbed the turquoise for her
eyes?
Wind, clear with hope, beneath the apple
bough,
That rained pink blossom o’er an old love
tale?
Ah, sere, brown leaves that o’er a broken
vow
Fell ere the winter made the dead year
wise!
(In truth she was a little commonplace,
And looked consumptive, and her yellotv hair
Gould not redeem her features, which were
plain.
Her love died young, which is a common
case,
And, though our latest parting gave me pain,
A fortnight eased me of my heavy care.)
Gold of the summer! Song of happy bees !
Breeze flaunting poppies in the pride of sun!
Cream in the arbor! Dalliance in the shade!
The wine-warm glances of my nut-brown
maid !
How the lights wane, and the far distance
flies —
Some happier lover all my treasure won!
(A milkmaid with some freckles and brown
eyes.
I well remember her round, shapely arms,
Sinewed with farmwork —how they used to
cling
At evening by the slip-rails! Should I prize
The songs without one H she used to sing,
If I were owner of her present charms?)
Glamor of lights and music, speech and song,
The thunders of the pit and gallery,
Long vigils at the stage door in the lane —
And lo ! She comes 1 Life’s wine is sweet
and strong,
Despite the dregs grown bitter with long-
pain—
Her tresses brush the sleeve of memory!
(A rather clever actress in her way,
I felt the witchery of her ancient spell,
For all her painted youth of fifty years.
1 spent six evenings watching that old play.
Next year I saw a brace of pretty dears,
Her daughter’s children —and I loved them
well.)
Dusk is the long rose clinging to the wall.
Is it a dream? Oh, white arm, round and
bare,
In the wild setting of the summer moon!
Oh, dimpled face that holds the night in
thrall!
Oh, voice of music, to sweet thoughts attune!
Oh, wonder of that raven rippling hair!
(Throgmorton’s tvife. I saw her one hot
night,
Or morning, when the clock was striking
three.
She threw the window up to get some air.
She really lias got splendid eyes, all right,
And any quantity of fine, dark hair;
But she had never any time for me.)
O Memory ! With the pang of parted years,
Like half-forgotten sweetness of dead
dreams,
The old loves thronging cloud the evening
waj's,
Seen through a mist of unavailing tears.
Oh, for the fairer lights and clearer days
Whose sweetness for a moment round me
streams!
(Yet don’t imagine I should care to meet
The mob of all the sweethearts that were
dear.
Fond memory tells me lies of summer’s blue,
But life is mostly things to drink and eat;
Old myrtles mix their wreaths with joyless
rue,
And dead romance re-lives in younger beer!)
N.S.W.
PAT O'MAORI.


The
Oil
For STATIONARY
and MARINE
PURPOSES
No
Carburetter
or
Vaporiser.
? V
*wmh
Ignition
*atus.
makes the following claims upon your attention :
1— It uses cheap lamp oil (such as kerosene), and other residuals.
2 The oil is injected directly into the cylinder, thus dispensing with unre-
liable and inefficient vaporisers.
3 It is very simple in construction, there being no electric ignition or other
complicated mechanism.
4 Its speeds are such that electric generators and centrifugal pumps may
be coupled direct.
5 No skilled labor is required, the supply of fuel and lubricant being all
the attention necessary.
PULL PARTICULARS- FROM ' /
The Westinghouse Brake Company of Australasia Ltd.,
14 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Queensland Agents: Holmes & Church, Brisbane.
Latest Standard HOT POINT
ELECTRIC IRON. Instantly
connected. Hot Iron and
Cool Handle.
MADE in 31b, and 61b. weights ; in sizes 2§" x 5 b", and 4" x 61"
with a 330, 500 and 575 wattage. Prices 25/-, respectively’
It ha 3 a pressed stpel top, metal covered plug—easy to re’
moVe-a glittering mirror finish—and, over all, our guarantee,
-thoroughly efficient for both light and heavy work; simple yet
strong : clean, handy and inexpensive. Can also be supplied in
larger sizes for Laundries and Tailors up to 30ib.
FURTHER PARTICULARS ON APPLICATION TO
W. G. WATSON & CO.,
CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY. 1
TOOHEYS LIMITED
<y ' T ‘‘. ‘ '.7; . fi •\ j ~ **;L 3 *3\ v , l ' /*! iir* { * vf.. ,
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Club Rum.
Dog: Head Stout. Kingr’s Liqueur Whisky.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
Dinnefordl
» Magnesia
I
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tation s purchasers'
must see that
“Dinneford &Co."
is on every bottle
and label.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
-
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
a LW: I m
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
ii
FARMER'S FRIEND” OIL
ENGINE
2 horsepower
“ Farmer’s Friend *'
Portable.
ENGINES WORK
ON OIL OR GAS-
Guaranteed
2 Years.
Also Wood-
Sawing, Chaffcutting
and Pumping Outfits,
4, 8, or 12-h.p. complete,
Portable or Stationary.
ON TERMS
All complete, with Tanks and
Pipes, f.o.b. Sydney. You have
no fittings to buy—everything
is supplied by us.
Larger Engines at propor-
tionate Prices and Terms.
Write for Catalogue.
PARTRIDGE 8 HODGSON,
49 York Street, SYDNEY
339 Collins St., MELBOURNE
I A F?-
■
r
m
it
Z
M
m
*9
First c/ass 5/r 7
Yes. thanks to - ,
BEECHAMS P/US.
ASTHMACURE
GHIMAULTS INDIAN CIRARFTTFS
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Concha
relieved’ mM a ™T B i? d .t ° PPr£ission immediately
ETTES. by ln^ancJ^ C ,:: 3 INDIAN CIGA^
FROOTOIDS
Cure Headache, Indigestion, Constipa-
tion, and Biliousness. They are elegant
in appearance and pleasant to take;
they are immensely more valuable than
an ordinary aperient; they remove from
the blood, tissues, and internal organs,
waste poisonous matter that is clogging
them and choking the Channels that lead
to and from them. Frootoids are
THE BEST
aperient medicine to take when any
Congestion or Blood Poison is present,
or when Congestion of the Brain or
Apoplexy is present or threatening. They
have been tested, and have been proved
to afford quick relief in such cases when
other aperients have not done any good
at all. Frootoids are absolutely un-
rivalled for
FAMILY
use; their beneficial effects are evident
by the disappearance of headache—a
bright cheery sense of perfect health
taking the place of sluggish depressed
feelings, by the liver acting properly, and
by the food being properly digested.
Frootoids are a very economical
MEDICINE.
A dose taken once a week, at bed-time
is highly beneficial. They act splendidly
on the Liver. A constipated habit of
body will be completely cured if the
patient will on each occasion, when
suffering, take a dose of Frootoids in-
stead of an ordinary aperient. The
sufferer thus gradually becomes quite
independent of Aperient Medicines.
Price 1/6. From all Chemists and
Medicine Vendors, and W. G. Hearne &
Co.. Ltd., Geelong, Victoria.
The'Stajndard Bemedy which has outlived the Centime!.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT).
in use since 1596.
CURES ■" r™”"*"®
AostraFan Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist lor its history—the book is free—or write
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, Eng.
SSBE
Manufacturers
of
Fireproof
Safes.
Doors.
■
Government
Contractors.
'
WEARNE * BREAKSPEAR,
296 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
Superior to
INJECTIONS
CUBBBS and
COPAIBA.
Cares the same
diseases 'without
lenience
in
48 hours.
Each Capsule bears the name iV~
m
m
QP
mgG
Borated Goldenseal
g Compound
/ A safe and simple remedy for
f Bronchitis, Catarrh, Hay F«#|t
Inflammations, Irritations, nicer
atlona of ALL mucous men.' runes
or linings of the nose, throat,
stomach or urinary organs.
AT CHEMISTS
IVhy not cure yourself
Treatise with jach bottlo
or mailed on request.
i He Etui Chemical Co.
Cincinnati, Ohio,
D.S.A. .
CANT
B
BEAT
PIPES
ALL SHAPES
[/-EACH POST FREE 1/2
Quality Not Better
| in a
Guinea Pipe
MICK SIMMONS
SYDNEY.
v STOREKEEPERS & roBAtW/YISTS
SHOULD SEND SOU DUB TRADE UST


architects specify
Mack Partitions
and have a Fire-Proof,
Sound-Proof
and Vermin-Proof
DIVIDING WALL.
Write for our Catalogue, or call and inspect.
mack” ltd..
Royal Insurance Buildings,
Cor. PITT and SPRING STREETS, SYDNEY.
ELECTROMOTORS LIMITED
Manchester.
COMPLETE INSTALLATIONS of ELECTRIC POWER
PLANTS IN WORKS, MILLS and FACTORIES.
Queensland Government Printing Office equipped with 58 of our Motors.
Australasian Agency :
T. K. STEANES, 39 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. ..
DICK’S PATENT
BELTING
THE ORIGINAL AND
GENUINE BALATA.
TRADu
MARK
The STRONGEST and most EFFICIENT yet produced
Every Belt GUARANTEED. As a auard against inferior
imitations, look for the TRADE MARK on every few feet.
importers: James Hardie & Co.,
West Circular Quay, Sydney, and at Melbourne.
mHE BEST STORIES written in Australia
appear in The Lone Hand eaoh month.
Price sixpence.
TANGYE Oil Engines
Copy of Testimonial received from Mr. P. Squire,
Cowra, N.S.W. :
“ With the * Tangye ’ Oil Engine and Wolseley
Sheep Shearing Machines, erected for me this
year, I have gone through the shearing without
a hitch.
“ I am more than pleased with the Engine and
Machines and the erection of same. ”
For Shearing Sheds.
THE
SHEEP SHEARING MACHINE
IS THE WORLD’S BEST.
Competition has only tended to emphasise this well-known fact, ?s
improvements which have recently been added to the machine haw
established beyond any doubt the right to claim for the “ Wolseley
the title-
THE PREMIER SHEARING MACHINE.
WRITE FOR PRICES AND CATALOGUES.
Clayton and Shuttleworth
' *—■ —«lff iiliiimii| Mill—lll—l—MM—■
Portable Steam Engine
Is a particularly welLbuilt and Substantial
Engine, and SPECIALLY SUITED TO
AUSTRALIAN CONDITIONS. Numbers In
use in N.S.W. driving; Pumps, Circular
Saws, Cbaf feu tiers, etc.
For Shearing: Sheds.
DALGETY & COMPANY, LTD.,
Sole
Agents,
HIGH-SPEED MODERN MACHINE TOOLS
, IN STOCK.—
Lathes, Shapers, Milling
Machines, Radial, Up-
right and Sensitive
Drills, Punching and
Shearing Machines,
Power Hammers.
Fay and Egan Planers, Holders, Matchers, Saw Benches,
Simonds’ Knives, Circular and Band Saw and all
Supplies for the Engineer, Woodworker and Sawmiller.
H. P. GREGORY CO.,
74 CLARENCE STREET. SYDNEY.
o
UJ
m
LLi
we STOCK
Radial Arm
Benches,
Continuous Roller
Feed,
Rising and Falling.
Three and Four
Cutter Moulding
Machines.
AGENCIES:
Lodge and Shipley
Lathes,
Seneca Falls “Star”
Lathes,
John Stirk's High
Speed Lathes,
Mark Flather’s
Shapers,
Crescent Wood=
working Machines,
National Screwing
Machines,
Jessop’s Drills and
Steel.
an & Edwards Prop. Ltd.,
M *
KING STREET,
MELBOURNE.
NOYES
(Sydney) Limited,
109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
45 Adelaide Street, BRISBANE.
(Melbourne) Propy., Ltd.
153-7 William Street, MELBOURNE.
Commercial Bank Chambers, DUDTIf
St. George’s Terrace, *UK 111.
7 Pirie Street, ADELAIDE.
Rabbit Proof Wire Netting
and All Supplies for
'
the Man on the Land.
Acknowledged by Leading Architects to be the most successful material for Roofs, Floors
Walls and Ceilings, Ships’ Decks, Baths, Tramcar Floors, Freezing Chambers, Hospital and
Asylum F oors, Fire-proof Stairs, Pavements, Roadways, Leaking Tanks, Mantelpieces
Overmantels, Skating Rink Floors and thousands of other purposes. P ’
Sole Manufacturers and Patentees-
PETRITE LIMITED, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
SORS
In Stock for Immediate Delivery.
263 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
525 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Tilghman’s Patent Sand Blast Co., England.
Laidlaw-Dtmn-Gordon Co., America.
1 , 1" / v ' /■ * I '
