

The EMBODIMENT OF PERFECTION
R. 6. WATKINS & CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—POE—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
- EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE. ■
atf&ro, .&0&IU, &> & M-
Herbert’s
Machine Tools.
Economy in Labor. Increased Output.
535 Kent Streets Sydney,
AND , >
486 Collins Street, Melbourne.
S.A. Agent: c. C. DELAND, Bowman’s Bldgs., Adelaida.
»IK-— .
fiadSeys Orient fiotel.
ghjhjhjkjhk
Take it back,
I must have-
HUTTON’S
Pine Apple Brand
ghjhjhjkjhk
PIONEET>
LEATHER BELTING
GUARANTEED.
</. C. Ludowioi <& Son, Ld,
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
CHUBB’S DIAGONAL BOLTS
FIT PERFECTLY.
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets is
recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the diges-
tive organs.
J
HANSENS
tablets
INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially-prepared Tablets acts most
beneficially when taken daily after meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prlxe Medals.
v^str.
fas
aUs.
Os
'Qj&i&f uJjCMJtj €4 OtijolXi&, tArt/UJ ~&‘&fffsLA[
<%*
j?
V
.<? *
Money advanced upon all Securities at Reasonable
Rates of Interest.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
THIS COMPANY WAS FORMED TO SUPPRESS USURY.
And at MELBOURNE, BRISBANE and NEWCASTLE.
BENSDORPS
Royal
Dutch
ghjhjhjkjhk
is the Queen of sJI Cocoas
I F°H.
|Aroma,Strei\gthfc-Purit)C
The Only Roofing' That Defies the Elements,
MALT
I
Head and Shoulders Above All Others for Quality.
THE PARAFFINE PAINT COMPANY, CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTINx PLACE, SYDNEY.—D. S. EVANS, Australasian Manager.
KUPPER LAGER.
ARE YOU A JUDGE OF
GOOD WHISKY? TRY
THORNE’S.
HELIDON SPA WATER
The efficacy of HEUDON SPA lies in its \
solvent power and cleansing properties. j
DIWHURST 8
Agents.
The Bulletin
Vol. 32.—N0. 1631.]
[Thursday, May 18, 1911.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


THE DOOM OF SAILS.
Alas! must ye utterly vanish, and cease
from amidst us,
Sails of the olden sea ?
Now dispossessed by the stern and stunted
ironclad.
Wingless and squat and stern?
Purple sails of the heroes I lured to the
Westward,
Spread for the golden isles !
Sails of a magic foam with fairy plunder,
Waiting the wizard gold !
Sails of the morning, come like ghosts on the
sea-line.
With midnight load of the deep!
Sails of the sunset, red over endless waters
For the furthest Orient filled!
Sails of the starlight, passing we know not
whither,
Silent, lighted, and Jone!
Sails of the sea-man accursed, and cruising
for ever,
Hoist by a spectral crew!
Sails set afire by the lightning, resounding
to tempest,
That drum and thunder and sing!
Sails that unruffled repose on a bosom of
azure,
Glassed by a placid flood!
Alas! must ye go as a dream, and depart as
a vision.
Sails of the olden sea?
Stephen Phillips (Spectator).
MY WORLD.
I took the purple of the heather,
And the white of a rose,
And the blue, hill air, and the wild, wet
weather-,
With a thought of the woman my glad soul
knows:
And I made me a wonderful, magic world,
Like the globe of rain in a rose-leaf furled,
A world complete, and far more real,
That this that we seem to see and feel.
Frederick Niven (T. P.’s Maga.).
* * * *
Ambrose Pratt’s The Big Five, which ran
through The Lone Hand, has been published
in book-form by Ward, Lock and Co.
Ana 01 saooa
It costs many guineas to obtain Tuition i
"Technical Study. In books you have the me
n any Branch of
efficient World's Workers, and the cost is only a few shillings.
Maycock’s Electric Wiring, Fitting, Switches and Lamps,
new edition, revised, 7s, posted 7s Sd. ilss9d.
Pieree GW.: Principles of Wireless Telegraphy, 15s, p.
Richardson, A. 0. :The Power of Advertising, 7s 6d, p. 7sBd
Renard, A. H r ABO of Scientific Stock Feeding, ss,
posted 5s 3d.
Hutton’s Practical Engineer’s Handbook, 18s, p. l.°a 9d.
Nangle, J. : Aust. Building Practice, 10s 6d, p. 10s 9d.
Howells, F. J. : Soil Problems in Wheat Growing 6s
posted 6s. 3d. ’
Standard Handbook for Electrical Engineers, 3rd Edition
fully revised, 20s, posted 20s 4d.
THE FARMER’S HAHDBOOK, 760 pages, fully illus., published for Dept, of Agriculture, N.S.W., 3s 6d, posted 3s lOd.
George Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd., 238 Pitt Street, Sydney.
HUDSON’S
“EUMENTHOL JUJUBES.”
The Great Antiseptic and Prophylactic,
contains no cocaine or other poisonous
%. drug.
For COUGHS, COLDS, SORE THROATS,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA, and the
PREVENTION OF CONSUMPTION.
The Lancet Laboratory report is conclusive
of the value of “ Eumenthol Jujubes as an Antiseptic.”’
The Lancet says :—“ Proved to be as effective
baetericidally as is creosote.”
w
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
C. The Bronchial
Tabes of a dis-
sected Lung.
D. A’ Lobe of ene
of the Lungs.
Sold
HUDSON’S EU MENTHOL
the
all Chemists, post free on receipt of 1/6
ICAL COMPANY, LTD., 18 York Street, SYDNEY,
States, New Zealand, and at 320 Regent Street, London.
Agencies in all
The RED PAGE
DAWN.
I watched her steal across the sky at break-
ing of the day :
She took a golden planet for a lantern on
her way.
The glances danced from out her eyes like
little cats at play.
She walked along the sunway, clad in sheen
of twilight blue:
I saw her draw the veils of night and raise
her sandal-shoe
To tread the little stars to dust, and let the
daylight through.
The East became a wave of gold, the fading
moon was gz-ay;
I saw the Dawn’s reluctant feet that faltered
on the way—
The Dawn, her simple heart in strife, who
toiled for love o’ Day.
The Sun dz-ove in to Heaven-Town ’mid
golden belfry-peals.
He hath no eye for toiling maids. He hath
no heart that feels.. . .
I saw her sink before his car, and die beside
his wheels.
N.S.W.
H. C. McKAY.
TRAUMEREI.
I sit by the fmeside, musing,
With the firelight in my eyes . .
I send you kisses, my dearest,
Like small white buttei-ffies.
They flutter to your heart’s window,
And beat their wings on the pane.
Ah, why will you never open?
They will die of the cold and the rain.
N.S.W.
FRITZ S. BURNELL.
Brazenhead the Great
The hero of the old-fashioned hovel was
generally married and done for in the last
chapter. The roystering gallants and blus-
tering adventuz-ers might turn up in a sequel,
to be killed off magnificently at the end. You
knew that, once married or buried, they
would be seen no more, and your memory
of them would not be disturbed. Fielding,
Scott, Dickens, Dumas and their kind,
when one lot of characters had been done
with, would create a fresh company, and then
others while blood and ink lasted. If the
modern novelist is fortunate enough to
create a striking character, he makes the
most of him; sometimes too much of him.
His Galloping Dick, though he had done
enough for one lifetime, is sent out on the
road again; Captain Kettle, laid on the
shelf with many wounds, is dragged forth
to swagger some more; Sherlock Holmes,
having been properly killed, is dug up for
the sake of the gold that had been left in his
false teeth.
In a similar way Maurice Hewlett treated
one good character unwisely. Senhouse, the
attractive gentleman gipsy of Halfway
House, was extended at both ends of his
career in two subsequent books, filled with
windy doctrine and made to act absui’dly.
The illusion of reality created on his first
appearance was destroyed by the last. Hew-
lett did not make the same mistake with
Captain Brazenhead, the great, hairy
swashbuckler who did stirring things in
The New Canterbury Tales and Fond Adven-
ture. The sketch has now been filled out;
further deeds are related, and a full-length
portrait of this valorous gentleman appears
in Brazenhead the Great (Sydney Book
Club). And the whole of him is well worth
having.
Snaith recently tried to create a similar
character in Fortune, and J. H. McCarthy
in The O’Flynn; but Brazenhead is greater
than these, and worthy of his illustrious
ancestry in fiction. When we read “how
Brazenhead slew 300 Anabaptists with the
thigh-bone of a philosopher” we can believe
that he did so; and also take for granted
the statement that after his confession in
the church of All Hallows, the priest who
shrove him died in the night, howling like
a wolf.
Perhaps the best introduction to Brazen-
head is the account of his interview with
the Duke of Milan, to whom he applied
for the post of Third Murderer, after
having slain the recent occupant of that
office: —
“Your business, Testadirame?” the Duke
enquired.
“Death,” said Capt. Brazenhead, “is my
business.”
Many and many a maxim of rhetoric as
this hero exemplified in his career through
the courts and camps of Europe, it may be
said with confidence that he never brought
more apposite illustration to that one which
teaches: “If you would be listened to at
length, be heard first in brief. “Strike,” says
this profound guide to persuasion, “strike
hard and sharply.”....
“I ask no more of Providence than a foot
inside the door” —a favorite saying of his.
Having got that beyond question, he never
faltered in the flood of his discourse, which,
like a river fed by a thousand rills, sucking
substance as it runs from mountain and
morass, rolled free and irresistible towards
its goal. If the matter of his allocution
was extraordinary—as it was —its manner
made it reasonable and indeed inevitable.
You might as well have headed up the Dan-
ube as Capt. Brazenhead when once he was
under way. The tongues of men and angels
seemed in pawn to him who, without pause
or stay, spoke headlong, with a fierce and
white-hot fluidity indescribable by me, for
the space of an hour and a quarter. His
subject ranged from metaphysics to man-
slaughter ; he borrowed freely and imparti-
ally, now from the Seraphic Doctor, now
from Hermes the Thriee-Mage. These the
sages and captains of antiquity, Plato and
Ilolophernes, Quintus Fabius and Michael
Scot, Roger Bacon, the Witch of Endor and
other ladies and gentlemen, as it were, dis-
solved in oil, came swirling down the tide.
Not the sciences only, but the virtues—
Justice, Fortitude and Mercy, with exemplars
of each, engaged his tongue.... He knew
how many lovers had Semiramis, what rav-
ages the fire had made in the breast of Cleo-
patra, Queen of Egypt, what proved a stum-
bling-block to Caesar, how Charlemagne
doted, the luxuries of the Persian kings; he
renearsed them all, brought them to a fer-
menting head, and, if I may say so, slicing
off that head, laid it on the point of his
tongue at the feet of Milan.
* * * *
The flamboyant adventurer has found a
biographer with a suitably picturesque style,
and he is ably conducted to a glorious end :
“Thus fell, in the year of grace, 1477,
Solomon Brazenhead the Great, seventh son
of a seventh son, born miraculously in the
seventh month.”
Le Gallienne’s Essays
Richard Le Gallienne still writes with the
preciosity and affectation of twenty books
ago, yet Attitudes and Avowals (Syd-
ney Book Club) contains some prose fancies
and litez-ai*y ci-iticism worth reading.
He writes of fairy tales as paradoxes
made of poVerty and dreams —the dreams of
the common people, and declaims that their
chief business is to remind us of the wonder
of the world : :
The world is a world—just because it is
supernatural, and it goes on spinning its
way among the other stars —just because it
is a fairy tale.
It is, of course, the scientist, the explorer,
the practical man who is revealing the won-
der of the world, and fairy tales are becom-
ing the favorite reading of the old.
Concerning gossip, Le G. inquires why
people are so much more interested in the
naughtinesses of great people than in their
goodness, and offers an answer from Hafiz: —
Talk to me not about the Book of Sin,
For, friend, to tell the truth,
That is the book I would be written in—
It is so full of youth,
And mark me, friend, when on the Judgment
Day,
The black book and the white
Are angel-opened there in Allah’s sight,
For all to read what’s writ —-
Just watch how lonely the white book will
be,
But the black book, wherein is writ my
name,
My name, my shame, my fame —
With busy readers all besieged you’H see,
Yea! almost thumbed away,
So interesting it!
. “Once in a youthful flight of epigram,” says
Richard, “I wrote: ‘Beauty is the smile upon
the face of Power.’ The English comic pa-
per called Punch connected me. No, it said,
rather your epigram should run: ‘Power is
the smile on the face of Beauty.’ ” That is
expanded into an essay.
There is truth in his Chestertonian expres-
sion of the “Need of Coney Island,” that
garish place of entertainment for most of
New York’s four million: —
Every nation has —and needs —and loves
—its Tom-Tom. It has its need of orgiastic
escape from respectability—that is from the
world of what-we-have-to-do into the world
of wbat-we-would-like-to-do, from the world
of duty that endureth forever into the world
of joy that is graciously pei-mitted for a
moment.
The coming of airships is regained with
apprehension for the soul of man, for they
will kill the beauty of the sky
All the old peace and prayer of the world
will have gone. The air once so pure and
tranquil will be filled with the sound of
gongs, the flash of signals and undreamed-
of forms of noise and color. Man will have
placed a cloud of gigantic gnats between
himself and the Infinite. . . . For him the
moon no more shall rise among the quiet
trees, the morning-star will be surrounded
by—excursionists. Where now will be the
sweet influence of the Pleiades? And no
more even may he lie down in the green pas-
tures or walk beside the still waters. He
will have lost both Heaven and earth.
Appreciations of Grant Allen, Tennyson,
Meredith and Hawthorne are in Le Galli-
enne’s best mannez - .
The Complications at Collaroi, by Rose
Boldrewood (Geo. Robertson and Co.), has
interest as the first book of the daughter of
“Rolf Boldrewood,” and has some merit of
its own, as a lively narrative of love affairs
in Australia and India. The complications
are the good old sort which will persist in
arising because Propinquity is Cupid’s ad-
vance agent, and a long absence does not
make the heart grow fonder. The bush peo-
ple in this story seem to spend most of their
time in drinking tea, flirting and playing
polo. No dqubt they are representative of
their class# and the local color is accurate,
though fafot. It would have been better if
Miss Browne had concentrated her atten-
tion upon fewer characters, and put more
vital stuffing into them. She has command
of an easy narrative style, and with experi-
ence will be able to tell a good story.
“Condot”: Reverting to Sladen’s new book
(B. 6/4/T1) and the lifting of a letter pub-
lished in “Babu English” 20 years ago, I
notice that the learned reviewer of the work
for the Age quotes a portion of the “bor-
rowed” letter to illustrate the supposed fact
that Sladen had become humorous. The
notice of the book says that the letter in-
dicates that Mr. Sladen is not the same
humorless Mr. Sladen that wrote in a blank
verse poem —•
Her baby was better and more cheerful,
And condensed milk appeai’ed to agree with
it.
It is excusable in the Age to be ignorant
of the fact that the letter was borrowed, as
it is not acknowledged; but to describe
Sladen’s famous condensed milk poem as
blank verse shows an unpardonable ignor-
ance of what every student of Australian
poetry ought to be familiar with. Can these
significant and relevant lines be called blank
verse:—
The Maid of Arc, had she not chivalrous
Frenchmen,
Impatient to follow wherever she led?
The Countess of Brittany, had she no hench-
men ?
And Ilennebon Castle was battlemented.
Perhaps the word was a misprint for
“blanky.”
* * * *
Helen Jerome disagrees with the Red
Page’s opinion of two recent books: —
Marie Claire is like a fine piece of sculp-
ture, unbelievabiy flawless. It does not con-
tain one superfluous word. The short pure
sentences are like rows of sparkling jewels.
Not a word may be missed, and at the end of
the book one is left with the impression of
having been in a rarefied high altitude, with
only the cold purity of the moon and the
divine peace of the stars for company.
Octave Mirbeau undertook its “literary
fiotation”—and went to work on it “with
flames and lightnings”—at the instigation of
a group of litei-ary Fz-enchmen. W hat a
genuine love of art must exist in France
when men will not only acknowledge the
genius of a woman, but will help her to ex-
press it!
Marguerite Audoux, its author, is a work-
ing sempstress, with no education. This
doesn’t matter in the least, though much
surprise is felt concerning it. There is
one human being born in every million with
the power of expression. That is all. She
is a poet who writes in prose. And her
prose is a strange and delicate thing.
There is nothing sensational ; there are
no sex problems. Indeed, she is curiously
detached. The book might concern a boy,
just as easily as a girl. That is what makes
if so startlingly pure. She possesses a high
reticence of soul and body that is entirely
absent from contemporary literature —especi-
ally that of the feminine writers. They
are all passionately intent on explaining—
indeed on exposing themselves. Though if it
comes to that, why should I exempt the mas-
culine world? Look at the indecency of
Wells’s last book, “The New Machiavelli!”
He strips his soul threadbare. All his vile
processes from adolescence to manhood are
dragged into the market-place. Interesting,
of course, to psychologists—but what abysses
of vulgarity it suggests! Because one wishes
to study the architecture of a house, one
need not necessarily be confronted with the
method of disposing of its garbage!
“Marie Claii'e” is a study in brevity, i*
simplicity. Her life was without incident,
and yet her unaffected terse style of record-
ing her impressions and the sentiments of her
childhood is extz-aordinarily eloquent. As
a pui - e work of art, the book is the most sat-
isfying and artistically uplifting I have ever
read. One can only describe Margureite
Audoux as a literary saint.
* * * *
Edward Dyson writes as one craftsman
about another —O. Henry :
The case of O. Henry is of exceeding in-
terest to professional tale-bearers the world
over. It stands for tremendous success, and
yarn-spinners have been at him, avid an-
alysts, segregating, testing, resolving his
work into its components, to discover how
and why this man came to be Worth a dollar
a word and over, counting book profits in.
A casual story was all I had read of the
author of “Cabbages and Kings” till quite re-
cently, then I swallowed seven volumes in
successive gulps, and experienced a sensa-
tion somewhat similar to that once pro-
vided by an inspection of a nail foundry,
where a jet of wire nails was playing out of
a wonderful machine —excellent nails, but
each of them very like the others.
O. Henry could think a story most
adroitly, but he sauced his dish for vitiated
palates, and his pickles were strong onions
for hard drinkers. Too often the excita-
tion is not honest, it is not in the thing
said, but in the way of saying it, and every
man Jack and girl Jill in the books of Wil-
liam Sydney Porter is afflicted with the
same weird Yankee itch after verbal gro-
tesques. Not a dry dog of them all would
dream of saying, “Pass the mustard,” when
it is so much more fascinating and clever to
say: “Bud, when you quit biting geographi-
cal features into that pie, you might spin
the fire-box three paces west.” They all do
it, cowboys, confidence men, ranchers,
miners, business men, diplomats, soldiers,
tramps, shop girls, art damsels, typewriters,
model wives, and ladies of the asphalt.
But the most severe charge against O.
Henry as a literary light, is that he has
given us no one to live with. When we
have said our worst of Kipling, Mulvaney
remains; but where is the rememberable
character in the American’s merry proces-
sion, from “Cabbages” to “Whirligigs”?
William Porter has begotten no man child,
consequently his books are “perishable
goods.” The artifice of our author is con-
spicuous, his recipes obtrude, but they are
most apparent when he handles a girl, and
jolts our artistic sensibilities with his super-
ficial, cynically, fraudulent, American chiv-
alry. O. Henry has a goou deal to tell
about girls, but he does it with his left
hand on the market for magazine stories.
Everybody knows how splendid an American
man must be in his literary attitude towards
the American woman, and O. Henry never
forgets his duty to Humbug, with the result
that the character of even his wickedest
women is not more than skin deep.
Coincidence is despised by conscientious
story-writers because it is pitifully easy, and
because real life literally abounds with it.
The extraordinary coincidence of the two
presidents in “Cabbages and Kings” is not
objectionable on the grounds of its improba-
bility, but because it does not call for much
art, nor for an exceptional imagination to
evolve complications when clashing the iden-
tities of two run-away presidents of the
same name and with similar companions,
accoutrements and ware. In other stories
O. ; Henry pulls the long arm of coincidence
out of joint, notably in “Proof of the Pud-
ding,” flagrantly in “The Badge of Police-
man O’Roon.” And many times O. Henry
trusts to his manner when he is short of
matter, and makes a story out of material
for a five line paragraph, as in “The Robe
of Peace.”
We are told that some time before his
death, O. Henry set to work with the de-
termination of writing a series of straight-
out dramatic stories, in the hope of demon-
strating that he could turn tales that would
cling without the artful aid of American
slang. “The Dream,” his last story, is pub-
lished in proof of his success. Unfortu-
nately, “The Dream” is exactly and circum-
stantially the idea of “The Occurrence at
Owl Creek Bridge,” Ambrose Bierce’s
great story. This brings O. Henry into
comparison with a man who is a very
superior artist, and puts him back in his
class. • ■
' And, after all disparagement, O. Henry re-
mains a delightful yarmspinner, with many
happy knacks,, and an unequalled faculty
for establishing an affectionate intimacy.
This latter gift was no small factor in
securing his sudden and wide success
Millions read him with delight, and even
at a dollar a word he was not over-paid by
the country that finances John Rockefeller.


JL
r a
For the LATEST FASHIONS
PUT PERFECT FAITH IN .. .
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ FAMOUS LOW PRICES.
.-1
• '
K
C 57
No. 057— Coat and Skirt Costume
of Dark Oxford Grey Diagonal
Cheviot ; Coat is full f-length, semi-
fitting, Panel back, unlined, Step
Collar of Black Satin and self-
strappings, new six-piece Skirt, 32/6.
Also No. C6l, similar style, unlined, in
Striped Heather Mixture Tweed, 29/6.
G—Cream Japanese Silk Blouse, Lace
Insertion Front, fasten at back, 9/6.
No. 259— Cream Embroidered Voile Blouse, fasten at back, long
sleeves, 9/9.
No. 5278— Cream and Colored Striped Delaine Shirt Blouse,
fasten at front, yoke back, 7/6.
rsr
/154
No. 7154—Girl’s Paletot, in pretty
shades of Green, Brown, Navy, belt at
waist, pleated Skirt, collar and cuffs
trimmed Silk to match. Sizes —
27in., 16/-; 30in., 17/-; 33in., 18/-;
36in., 19/-; S9in., 20/-; 42in., 21'/-;
45in., 22/-; 48in., 23/-; 51ih., 24/-
jf
4
aililS
:
■
2?
842
314
N,o. 642— Coat and
Skirt Costume of
Stripe Vicuna Cloth,
Panel back Coat, re-
verse effect on hips,
Black Velvet Collar,
new shaped Skirt,
Panel back and
front; Colors :
Green, Brown and
Raisin, 45/=
No. 314—Coat and Skirt Costume of Dark Grey
Cloth Suiting-, relieved faint Green and Black Stripes,
semi-fitting, j-length Coat, finished fine Black Braid
at sides and Cuffs, lined Italian, smartly cut Skirt,
plain back, trimmed Braiding to match, 63/-
KX
*d-\
? Jf*f?
■ •
h
>
Ty
Wf.
LJhlAi
30?
ire,
£y
2t57
53»p(raSsajRK
, ss
/5
saa
1410
No 1410— Smart Little Miss Gibbs Shape, in soft tucked Silk and Cloth, trimmed two rosettes
soft tucked Silk, frill Valenciennes Lace under leaf, Silk strings ; 4 to 6 years ; 8/11.
No 150 Mushroom Droop Shape, in colored Velvet, trimmed soft Silk, lining of soft gathered
silk ; colors—Navy, Vieux Rose, Ruby, Cinnamon, Tabac, Cream ; 14 to 15 years ; 9/11.
No. 2157— Pretty Hat, of soft tucked Silk and Lace, trimmed tucked rosette, White only;
7 to 11 years ; 9/6.
No. 721— Extra Quality
Panama Walking
Skirt, trimmed Silk
Braid, in Black and
Navy, 23/=*
Other styles in All Wool
Panama, 14/6, 19/6.
No. 1854— Stylish Skirt, ot
All Wool Tweed Homespun,
new. shape, trimmed Braid ;
Colors : Grey, Brown, Navy
Mixture and Peacock, 22/6.
Other new styles, 17/6, 22/6,
24/6.
No. 847— Smart Taffeta
Voile Skirt, trimmed Band
and Flounce of Taffeta Silk
and rows of Silk Braid,
gathered back, 32/6.
Better quality, trimmed Silk
Appliqu6, S2/6.
No. 151— Well-made Walk-
ing Skirt, of All Wool Coat-
ing Serge, smartly trimmed
Silk Braid, Box pleat at back,
19/6. Out sizes in Black and
Navy, 217-
Other new styles in Fine
Serge Coating, Black or Navy,
15/6, 18/6, 22/6.
Also No. 6898, similar style in
Black and Navy Melton
Cloth, 7/11.
No. 3636— Stylish Coat, f-length, of
Navy Beaver Face Cloth,, smartly fin-
ished Black Silk Braid Embroidery and
Military Braid, Black Satin Collar, fin-
ished Braid, 52/6. Similar new styles,
39/6, 45/-, 47/6, 49/6.
Plain tailor-made, 25/=
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W


TOOTH & CO. Ltd
l ' '
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery,
PUBLIC CAUTION
When asking for PHOSFERINE see that the article
you get is the genuine and spelt
PHOSFERINE
Refuse any preparation of a similar sounding name
which may be offered from interested motives. The
original and only genuine PHOSFERINE is prepared by
ASHTON & PARSONS, LTD., LONDON
ghjhjhjkjhk
The Royal Example
ghjhjhjkjhk
Phosferine is used by the Royal Families of Europe,
which, in plain language, means that every user of
Phosferine knows and feels that this famous Tonic is
recommended by the greatest living Physicians.
Indeed such has been its fame and recommendations, that
there is scarcely a Royal Residence in which PHOSFERINE
is not used and favourably spoken of.
PHOSFERINE
THE GREATEST OF ALL TONICS
No other medicine has received such absolute proof of its
extraordinary properties in restoring shattered constitutions
and in giving back to the prematurely aged new life and
energy. It is a proven remedy for Neuralgia, Nervous
Debility, Indigestion, Sleeplessness, Exhaustion,
Loss of Appetite, Lassitude, Faintness, Brain=Fag,
Headache, and all disorders consequent upon a reduced
state of the nervous system.
ghjhjghjhjhjkjhkhjkjhk
Remember.
Imitations of Phosferine
are similar only in
name. Insist upon having the genuine
Phosferine the kind that is supplied
ghjhjhjkjhk
by Royal Command
To the British Royal Family
H.I.M. the Empress of Russia
H.M. the King of Spain
H.M. the King of Greece
H.M. the Queen of Roumania
H.M. the Queen of Spain
H.I.H. the Dowager Empress of Russia
H. I. H. the Grand Duchess Olga of Russia
H.R.H. the Grand Duchess of Hesse
The Imperial Family of China.
And the Principal Royalty and Aristocracy throughout the world.
The Genuine Phosferine is sold by all Chemists Stores, etc., in bottles, 1/- and 2/6.
The 2/6 size contains nearly four times the il- size.
Richardson Cushion Frame, Anti-Jar Ball-
Bearing- Roller Skates.
ifspd exclusive! v'Wall of the larsrest and most successful rinks in America,
and bv all the Champions of the World, fast and fancy. RICHARDSON
SKATES have held all World’s Records for 24 years. Write for Catalogue.
Tells how to open and operate Roller Rinks.
Richardson Ball-Bearing 1 Skate Co., 311 Michigan Street, Chicago, U.S. A.
“RICHARDSON"
CHICAGO
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security ot Freehold or Leasehold
City or Suburban Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Government Debentures. Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus
tralian States or New Zealand AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowin': Borrowers the privilege of repavin':
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during- any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Dirkctors—The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman : Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman : Benjamin
Short Esq. : The Hon. James Burns. M.L.C. : The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.; The Hon. F. E. Winchcombe. M.L.C.;
Adrian Knox, Esq., K.C. General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece. F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE, S 7 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. H. W. APPERLY, Secretary.
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau.
Full Particulars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Climate Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Crown Land suitable for Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on
Better Terms than elsewhere in Australia.
Cornet* of Queen and T. C. TROEDSON,
George Streets. Brisbane. General Director.
Sydney Branch Office at 116 Pitt Street.—Local Director: A. MESTON.
tfONM*
v pAste-
°°*CALM
7oj ? aEA mnG
r
XAFflT^f
Ti
\WI
Amy shall. Quantity with brush
\AU6 To A POLISH THEN FINISH
\with padoa soft CLOTH.
For your BOOTS * and SHOES.
PASTE.
In BLACK and BROWN
The best and also the cheapest
PASTE POLISH on the market
for cleaning, polishing, and
preserving all kinds of Leather
Boots, Shoes, Harness, &c.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
Made bv the Manufacturers of the Celebrated
“ MELTONIAN ” BOOT POLISHES.
E. BROWN 8 SON ( B,ack^ n “'? a d ct B u 0 r f rs Po,iBh ) LTD., LONDON and PARIS.
Will Anprape ~ BOOKS.
How to Woo
and Win.
THE ART AND
ETIQUETTE OF
Love and Courtship
The Best Lover’s Guide
Ever Published.
1/-, Post Free 1/2.
Kelly Gang, True Story,
1/-. Book ok Coin Tricks,
1/-. Wrestling, by Frank
Gotch, World’s Champion,
lOd. One Thousand Ways
to Get Rich, 1/6. How Old
Mosb Counted Eggs, and
115 other Recitations, 1/-.
Letter Writer, 1/-. Dr.
Foote’s Plain Home Cyclo-
pedia, latest edition, 1248
pages, 400 colored plates
and engravings, 7/6. Dr.
Faulkner’s Original Book
op Nature, the ohly genu-
ine and unabridged edi-
tion, 3/6, posted 4/-. Free-
masonry Explained, 1/3.
New Tricks with Cards,
1/-. How to Mesmerise, 1/-
ANY BOOH
YOU WANT.
Mention The Bulletin.
CHEAP CONJURING TRICKS.
IKT
L
Marvellously Simple !
Simply Marvellous !
Multiplying and Van-
ishing Billiard Balls,
Produced from no-
where, appearing at
word of command be-
tween the fingers (see
illustration). Complete
with Full Instructions
(enabling the merest
amateur to perform it),
1/6 ; posted, 2 -
Two-from-Five Card
Trick. Another start-
ler, introducing some-
thing quite new in
magic. Price 6d. ; post
free, Bd.
Tgis Above Two Tricks (which require no stage,
no confederates and no special skill), post free any-
where) with Illustrated Catalogue of Magic, 2/6.
Above prices include postage to any address. Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne.
“EVERY HAN, WOMAN and
CHILD KNOWS WHAT
CLEMENTS
READ THIS LETTER:
36 Morris Street, Williamstown, Melbourne, 21/3/’ll.
CLEMENTS TONIC LTD.
“It is about two years since my illness started. We had just finished loading a
ship with wheat, and were waiting for another to come up to the wharf, when, with-
out any warning, I fell unconscious with convulsions, and was carried home, where I
lay for six hours in that condition, quite as stiff as a dead man, without a relaxation
of any muscles. That was the start of a nine months’ illness for me. The doctor was
soon in attendance, but I believe he was puzzled as to what my complaint was, and
treated me for some spine disease. After a time another doctor examined me, and
said I had Uric Acid, but I believe my complaint was in the spine. After a time I
was able to get about a little by holding on to the fence. At times I could feel that
my heart was ceasing to beat, and my head would swim round. Every man, woman
and child in this part of Williamstown recollect the bent-up cripple I was, trying to
shuffle along from place to place, and were always ready to help me, for they believed
I was a permanent cripple. One doctor said he could do no more for me, so that if
I were ever to get better it must come from other sources. A neighbor who knew
from experience the value of Clements Tonic bid me try it; six bottles and I, began to
feel better, and have taken some pounds’ worth of that medicine, but what’s that, I
have got my health back, thanks to Clements Tonic. No stranger would think I
ever had a day’s illness in my life. My statement in this letter can be backed up by
business men about here. You can use this as you think fit.
(Signed) FREDERICK JOHN HARDEN.”
TONIC
FOR ME!”
This is but one of the many physical resurrections this great medicine effects
in run-down and broken constitutions. For Ancemia, Debility, Insomnia or
Loss of Sleep, Constipation, Biliousness Sluggish Liver, Poor Appetite, or
Low spirits, take it. All Stores and Chemists sell Clements Tonic.


no)
l -
!g
J Family
Medicine
Without
Alcohol
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla is a tonic
and alterative, free from alcohol.
What is a “tonic”? A medicine
that imparts strength or tone; a
medicine that builds up, gives
vigor and power. What is an
‘ ‘ alterative ” ? A medicine that
alters or changes unhealthy ac-
tion to healthy action. Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla does all this with-
out stimulation. Ask your doc-
tor if a family medicine, like
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, is not vastly
better without alcohol than
with it.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lovell, Mass., U. S, A.
NTJ
Collison&Co.
PATENTS and TRADE MARKS
obtained in all countries.
483 Collins St., MELBOURNE.
Eagle Chambers, ADELAIDE
Write us for Inventors’ Guide. Established 1877
Practical Proof.
There never were so
many people using
Cerebos Salt as there are
to-day, which shows that
its purity, goodness and
daintiness are every day
becoming more and more
appreciated.
rebos
Salt
Agents— Harrison & Attwood, Sydney.
YOUR EYES!
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
EYE
OINTMENT.
INSTANT
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE IT!
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-. Or by post from
Proprietors, 443 Bourke St., Melbourne.
FOR ALL
BLOOD DISORDERS
ghjhjhjkjhk
Packets, 3d., 6d. and Is.
[2a
MILNERS' SAFES
have the Largest Sale in the World.
SYDNEY : John Keep & Sons, Ltd., Clarence St.
MELBOURNE : Briscoe & Co., Ltd., Lit. Collins St.
BRISBANE : Webster & Co., Ltd., Mary St.
PERTH : McLean Bros. & Rig?.
Aus. Rep.—T. Nicholls, c/o Sydney Agents.
ghjhjhjkjhk
Grandmother Used
BONNINGTONS !
For over 45 years Bonnington’s Irish Moss
has been the standard cough remedy. Grand-
mother used it, your mother used it, and
you probably use it yourself and give it to
your children.
BONNIHCTON’S IRISH MOSS.
There is no medicine like it for breaking up coughs and colds, healing inflam-
mation in the bronchial tubes and preventing serious lung troubles.
REFUSE SUBSTITUTES —get what you ask for, and ask for
Bonnington’s Irish Moss —there is no remedy “just as good.” [3
HEALTHFUL. ECONOMICAL. CONVENIENT.
BICKFORD S Essence of Coffee,
OUR .JACK” Brand.
Obtainable Everywhere.
Fulfils the requirements of the-' PURE FOODS" Act.
100 CUPS FOR 1/6.
A. M. BICKFORD & SONS, LTD., Pitt St., Sydney; Currie St., Adelaide; Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
ghjhjhjkjhk
WE are here to tell your beautiful-faced
women that faces do not attract so
readily as does figure, and we will
gladly tell any woman who writes us the
secret of how many hostesses and actresses
develop their busts and fill out the hollows of
their cheeks.
The hollow-necked, scrawny-armed and
flat-chested woman is always at a great dis-
advantage, socially, with her full-bosomed,
well-developed associates. She who is most
fully-developed always monopolises the
DEVELOPING
endearments of the opposite sex, and is a
source of envy to her ill-developed sisters.
If you are flat and hollow-chested, without
bosom, and suffer from attenuation, we will tell
you, free of charge, how you may develop
your bust and figure to pleasing proportions.
Thousands of women in similar health have
accepted and followed this advice, and are to-
day, as the result, radiant in the enjoyment of
good health, a pleasing, fully-developed figure,
and a plump, well-rounded bosom.
Attenuated women who have for years suf-
fered the ravages of indigestion, constipation,
biliousness, internal functional disorders, and
various other troubles are numbered in this
category.
We surest that all larl.v readers who see this
article will do well to investigate the truth of these
assertions. Send 2d. stamp, and we will post you
full particulars and a Free Sample of Treatment.
FALUERE FLESH-FOOD CO.,
5 LINDEN COURT, SYDNEY,
corner Castlereagti and Mar: et Streets. [ISO3
ghjhjhjkjhk
T FOR ALL AGES,^
from the nursery upwards,
HORLICK'S MALTED MILK
is an ideal food-beverage, easily digested,
, nourishing, invigorating. It is indis-
l, pensable to invalids and the aged, and
provides a full diet in sickness.
ghjhjhjkjhk
Especially valuable
in Hot Climates.
Of all Chemists & Stores.
Samples & Pamphlets:
82, Pitt Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Horlick’s Malted Milk
Co., Slough,Bucks,Eng.
A
MALTED MILK
Free to Smokers!
Mr. R. J. Hinton, Jerrara Creek, Marulait,
N.S.W., writes:— , T
“It gives me great pleasure to inform you that i
have been completely cured of the Tobacco
Habit by your wonderful Tobacco Specific, after
using tobacco heavily for seven years, sometimes
Boz. to lOoz. in the week. It is now 12 months
since I last used tobacco, and, although I am con-
tinually in the company of smokers, I do not have
the least desire to smoke, therefore I consider
the cure permanent.
“My general health is now perfect; aU my
former complaints, such as irregular Heart
Action, Dizziness, Nervousness and Stomach
Trouble, which I have every reason to believe
were caused through the use of tobacco, have en-
tirely disappeared, and are only remembered as a
hideous nightmare. I eat and sleep well, and feel
fit to face the world again. It will give me great
pleasure to recommend your remedy to others.
FREE SAMPLE.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you a FREE
SAMPLE of Tobacco Specific, also Booklet, Testi-
monials, etc.
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
DEPT. G, VICTORIA ARCADE, SYDNEY. If
£1573)18/9
ac a penny a smile, the cash value
ot. y ™ The Wayback Series.
RUPTU
Do you suffer from this complaint? No
doubt you wish to be cured without operation.
Have you grown tired o; wearing useless
trusses ? Then send for our little book,
giving a full description of our
AUTOMATIC
Air Cushion Appliance
by means of which a permanent cure can be
effected. We positively affirm this in spite ot
the many previous disappointments you may
have had. This appliance is something en-
tirely new —is in fact the Best Rupture
Appliance of the Century, and to
prove this to you
WE GIVE YOU TWO DAYS TRIAL
with each appliance that we send out. Perfect
comfort and ease from the first day’s use. No
steel bands to torture or galling pads or
leather chafing understraps. The pad is made
of soft pliable rubber, which presses gently
but firmly on the correct spot.
Full Particulars I'osted Free
WINSLOW CO.,
34-9 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
V AC
MOHTSCm
There’s Sauce for you!
Montserrat
Lime Juice Sauce suits
all tastes, and owing to its
purity, adds a zest to food,
without upsetting the most
delicate digestion. It helps
your food to feed you.
Jlsk your Storekeeper for it.
Guaranteed free from Preservatives.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Grievance.
No pleasure in the earth we spy
But someone weeps upon it —
Makes grief because we soon must die,
And weaves therefrom a sonnet;
There is no pleasant thing on earth
But gives those people sorrow,
Who waste a present theme of mirth
With augurs of to-morrow.
And, after all, to-morrow may
Hold fuller pleasures than to-day.
It is a dismal sort of thing
To make of joy a question;
And that so many rhymsters sing
- Poetic indigestion,
Is very sad; ’tis sad to know
That sorrow man possesses;
To find some people will find woe
In what another blesses.
I would not mind their misery,
But they will force their tears on me.
I don’t see why those folk who weep
With augurs sad should taunt me;
I bury sorrow six feet deep,
And keep no ghosts to haunt me;
1 really don’t know why they try
To lacerate my feeling,
And I refuse o’er loss to cry,
Or keep old wounds from healing.
Sorrow is but a dismal joy—
I see no points about it;
No mirth of mine shall it destroy,
In every Way I flout it.
From future days I drag no grief,
The future days may keep it;
And when it comes, for my relief,
I’ll do my best to leap it.
N.S.W.
HAMER.
Gods and Men.
Dark, in the great world’s shades,
Stretches a lonely strand,
Where strike with their silver blades
Seas at the shaken land:
Seas that with stroke of sword
The old gods slew,
And over their wan shapes poured
The slow wave blue.
Again to the brink, like wraiths
Streaming, our race makes goal.
Burdened with creeds and faiths,
Charms for the fearing soul
To find at the lonely strand
Our hope turned vain:
Instead of the Promised Land,
A moving main.
Towering tides, in a storm,
Flutter with wave-wild arms:
Fingers of foam upswarm,
Seizing our treasured charms:
We halt on a shifting sand,
Wavering, fain to flee:
Yet fearless the leaders stand
Fronting the tiger-sea.
The shadowy tide draws on ;
Toys that our hearts- still crave,
Heavens, of ages gone—
Saviours, that could not save —
Prophets who died for sins—
Sins that the prophets gave—
They are all swept out to the unknown deep
In the sweep of the ebbing wave.
O men at the sea-verge vast,
O heroes true!
From our outworn toys, from our painted gods,
at last
We turn to You.
The old faiths wane and fail.
The old truths fall:
Only in You our hope when the storms are rife,
To front new worlds, to win to the heart of life,
To fight the fight for man in the shadowy strife
And . . . conquer all!
N.S.W.
HUGH McKAY.
A Brown Study.
There are color schemes that dazzle, there are beauties
that allure,
There are triumph hats and corsets that can make a
conquest sure ;
But the beauty that is lasting, whether fortune smile
or frown,
Is the kind that looks its sweetest in a dress of
simple brown.
For though red may suit Eliza, and though Jennie
shines in green,
Though in robes of glowing violet Maria looks a
queen, ■’
Yet the boys are very certain that the belle of all
the town
Is pretty Carolina when she comes to church in
brown.
All the week we call her Carry, and whene’er we
chance to view
Our bewitching little maiden she is mostly dressed
in blue,
With her apron soiled and ragged, and her heels a
little down ;
But the actual Carolina is the Sunday girl in brown.
I have little faith in flounces, I should hold the
girls as fair,
If, like Venus of Medici, they wore little but their
hair,
And although the mere suggestion might provoke an
angry frown,
in the simple garb of Eden Carry’s dress would still
be brown.
For her hair is brown and wavy, and there’s plenty
of it, too,
And her witching eyes are dusky as an evening in
the dew,
And her lips are dark red roses, and our belle Of all
the town
Wears a velvet skin, sun-tinted to a warm Australian
brown.
Yes, I hear the wings of angels flitting round me as
I sit
In the sultry little vineyard where the parson does
his bit,
\nd I worship, oh, I worship at the shrine of that
soft gown,
(The demure and pretty goddess that has swathed my
soul in brown.
N.S.W.
D.M.W.


Combination Couch and Bed.
CHANGED INSTANTLY.
Size when open, 4ft. x 6ft. 7in.
•* i. * •« * •» *• ‘ • tS ■
v > v v. -i tt *
W i. •*- ‘«r *■ * V V ■>
m»v
SMigigr
sfe
CLOSED AS COUCH
£*&
fe
OPEN AS DOUBLE BED.
Cannot get out ol order; is
exceptionally strong and durable.
Just the thing for offices,
small rooms, or where an extra
bed is required.
Invaluable for hotels, boarding-
houses, coffee palaces, and similar
establishments.
Can be had fitted with box, to
act as linen press. Three pieces
of furniture in one.
Elegantly upholstered.
PRICES: .
In Cretonne, £4 4s. ; in
Tapestry or American Leather,
£4 155. ; in Rexine, £5 ss. and
£5 15s. With Box, 20s. extra.
Can only be obtained from
MARCUS CLARK & Co. Ltd
SYDNEY.
The Bulletin Post Cards.
NEW SERIES, IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve ...
Paqket of Ten
... 6d
... 5d
ghjhjhjkjhk
UNDER VI CE-REGAL
PATRONAGE.
The Misses Isaacs,
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair-
workers & Dermatologists,
161 KING STREET, SYDNEY, between- Elizabeth & Castlereaprh Streets.
Transformations from £4/4/- Tails from 7/6. Puffs from 25/- set. Fringes from 7/6.
Telephone 2138 Central. COMBINGS MADE UP.
Country orders receive prompt attention.
The Goldfields Diamond Drilling, Co., Ltd.,
339 Collins Street, MELBOURNE. 79 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Boulder Road, KALCOORLIE, W.A.
Diamond Drilling and Water Boring Contractors.
Sole Manufacturers of The Victoria Percussion Drill. ' Agents for THE SULLIVAN MACHINERY
CO.’S Diamond Drills, Air Compressors, Rock and Air Hammer Drills.
Drill Carbons and Spares for Diamond Drills stocked. Full particulars and prices on application.
Proved to Assist Digestion beyond any Doubt or Question
SQUARE SCHNAPPS
ABSOLUTELY
PURL.
3*
OBTAINABLE
EVERYWHERE.
The Largest Distillers
in the World.
freebooter
brand
RCGUTEReO
SqUARE
SCHNAPPS
1T '3 PROOUCE
Of
Ware houamd
proprietors
rarHeaiATtM disthuhies
delft HOLLAND
CIGARETTES
Banish care and
vain regrets;
Smoke ABDULLA
CIGARETTES.
ghjhjhjkjhk
WELSBACH AIR GAS MACHINE.
15_30—50—100—and 150 Light.
AIR
GAS.
The CHEAPEST
Light on Earth.
1000 Candle
!'* ; l
Power per hour
for One Penny.
NO
Intricate Meters for Measuring the Air
Buckets to Measure the Petrol.
Needle Float Valves.
ghjhjhjkjhk
Mercury.
Sight Feed Valve.
'i i
Flooding of
Carburetter.
The ONLY Plant which will successfully convert ordinary
Motor Spirit into Gas without the employment of heat
The Gas is suitable for Cooking and Heating, is practically
odorless, and is absolutely safe—being non-explosive*
Write for Particulars to
Welsbach Light Co. of Australasia Ltd.,
302 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Or Branches- 380 LONSDALE STREET, MELBOURNE.
102=4 VICTORIA STREET, WELLINGTON, N.Z.
wmmm'
Sv-
a;
A,
mmm
JvS
SggV^v.A
■
mmm
r :*>%'•!<
iii
v ;.J;.-;SVf]
■gj-ssasß
•v?V'.v..;:i
YOU
- t. , . ■
Cannot THinR
f >
of the,Best and Leading Makes of Motors
without remembering the names—
Daimler,
Delaunay - Belleville,
Austin, F.N.,
w ‘ ' • nj- * , i:
Schacht Motor Buggy
Surely it is a big point to be able
to see all these cars under the one
roof and to know that -you .can •
inspect them all and consider their
various good features, and to get
expert advice on the question of which is the best to suit your needs. There is not one
of them that is not at the top of its class, and not one of them that we cannot recommend
as being of the Finest Quality, Material, Workmanship and Finish.
You cannot think about Commercial Cars without thinking of the
HALLEY MOTOR LORRY.
It has proved its capabilities as a big, powerful w'eight-carrier strong and simple in
design—reliable in its work, economical in its running cost and upkeep.
YOUR INSPECTION IS CORDIALLY INVITED.
Sole Agents :
DALGETY 8 CO. LTD., 136-158 Phillip St., Sydney


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 32.—N0. 1631.
THURSDAY, MAY 18, 1911.
Pmcfi 6u.
THE JAPS AT VAUCLUSE.
Intend K a in an M aru h a v e landed at Vaucluse, on the Harbor aide of the Sooth Head (Sydney) fort, and
LITTLE BOY AT MANLY: “Well! this is about the last place anybody should come expecting to find the South Pole!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod,
of Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mos-
man, for The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
Ltd., at the Office of the Co., 214 George-
street North, Sydney, N. S. Wales, Aus-
tralia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES: Business, 1384 Central.
Editorial, 257 City.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Per Annum .. . . .. f 1 G 0
Half-yearly .. .. • • 033 6
Quarterly .. . ■ • • 0 < 0
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin
posted regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communica-
tions to be addressed to William Macleod, Manag-
ing Director.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the
paper (and, to an extent, themselves') by taking
some care as to methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, ad-
vertisements, etc.) should in no case be addressed to
the Editor, but to the Manager. To send them to
the Editor is to invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters
to anyone by name. “The Editor, The Bulletin,” is
the proper superscription for “copy.” Delay, and
even loss, is sometimes caused by addressing to per-
sons instead of officials. The person may not be
there; the official always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” col-
umn ''all contributions submitted, whether in the
form of Political, Social or other Articles, Verse,
Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially accept-
able), Paragraphs, Letters or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS.
when the address is specified and stamps are en-
closed. But no MS. will be returned, or preserved,,
unless these conditions are observed. When MS. is
forwarded without stamps for return it will be un-
derstood that the copy is to be destroyed if not ac-
ceptable. Personal applications for return of MS.
cannot receive attention. The Bulletin desires,
further, those sending MS. to distinctly understand
that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea,
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any pic-
ture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
The Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on
account of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale
agents) to Victoria, West Australia, Queensland,
Tasmania and New Zealand; and on account of
Messrs. Atkinson and Co. and Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide
—at i/6 P er d,oz. nett.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British
Australasian Office, 115 High Ilolborn, London,
W.C.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town; Dawson and Son, Capetown; The Central
News Agency, Durban, Natal; and others.
Vancouver.— Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver
8.C.; Irvine and Forsyth, jl/l Hastings Street;
Norman, Caple and Co., Stationers.
U.S.A. —laser lis A., Seattle, Washington; Inter-
national News Agency, Los Angeles; Chicago News-
paper Agency, 110 Madison Street, Chicago.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port
Said.
Hong Kong.—Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Singapore.— Messrs. John Little and Co.
Acjxnts’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size
O s / s in. x lfjin., will be forwarded on application.
Larger sizes can be supplied if desired.
THURSDAY, MAY 18, 1911.
AN INSTITUTION WHICH IS LEGALLY
PREVENTED FROM DOING ANY WORK.
The people who best understand the situa-
tion which has arisen out of the Ilefei enda
voting like it least. Within 24 hours of
the poll, W. A. Holman came out with a
proposal that the State Parliament should
voluntarily give the Commonwealth the
powers which he had done as much as any
man to deny it. There is a significant ab-
sence in all the States of the fulsome jubila-
tion which ordinarily follows anything that
may be twisted into a “Liberal triumph.
True C. G. Wade is alleged to have de-
scribed the voting as “sensible,” and various
subsidised Coronators sent back the mes-
sage, “Hurrah! Well done!’ But the bulk
of politicians on both sides of the paity
fence, and likewise those on top, can get no
satisfaction out of it at all. Labontes. see
o mass of badlv-needed democratic legislation
hung UP indefinitely; knowledgable “Lib-
erals” are troubled with the haunting uneasi-
ness of the litigant who has fluked a verdict
uvhicli he recognises will be upset on appeal.
its Parliament ..
hobbled. * *
To appreciate the tragic absurdity of the
OommSwenlth Parliament's present post-
tion, it is only necessary to consider some
or the more important powers which the peo-
ple, after mature deliberation, handed to it
1U years ago, and contrast them with the
powers which Australia’s “Third Parlia-
ment” —as London Nation termed the High
Court last month —has left to it. Parlia-
ment was originally given 39 specific powers.
A few of them —Census and Statistics, De-
fence, Quarantine, Old Age Pensions —have
been exercised. But the vast majority have
not been exercised; and unless the Consti-
tution is amended, as the Fisiieu Govern-
ment suggests, or the High Court is wiped
out, as W. A. Holman su-gests, or the
personnel of the Court is in some way al-
tered, they never can ne.
* * * *
“The Commonwealth Parliament,” says
the Act which created the Commonwealth,
“has, subject to the Constitution, power to
make laws.... with respect t 0.... foreign
Corporations and trading or financial Cor-
porations formed within the limits of the
Commonwealth.” What does the plain citi-
zen make of that? Surely, that it carries
the power to deal with injurious trusts in
whatever part of Australia they may appear
—a power which the best lawyers in the
Federal Parliament thought till lately it did
carry. But the High Court’s decision in
Appleton’s case laid it down that any in-
terference by the Australian Parliament with
a State trust would amount to “a flagrant
invasion of the power of the States to make
laws in respect of their own internal com-
merce.” The State Parliaments are im-
potent to scotch price-raising combines —as
is unpleasantly evidenced by the timber,
tobacco, brick, fruit, fish and other trusts
and rings which are springing up in N. S.
Wales, Victoria and other States. There-
fore the intolerable position is that any Yan-
kee oil, machinery or steel trust may, by the
simple process of registering in one State
and operating in another, flout the people s
will, as expressed in their own Constitution,
and, incidentally, rifle their pockets.
* * * *
Commonwealth interference with trading
or financial corporations (Sec. 20) being
ruled out, it follows also that Sec. 13, which
was designed to allow the Commonwealth to
make laws in regard to banking, other than
State banking, and Sec. 14 (insurance other
than State insurance) are also ultra vires.
The graduated land-tax is being assailed on
the grounds, amongst others, that by the
High Court’s decision in Rex v. Bargee, it is
unconstitutional. The New Protection is
dead. The Union Label is buried. Railway
servants may not appeal to the Federal Arbi-
tration Court. The unexpected has hap-
pened in 47 different directions. The tariff-
protected manufacturer is beside himself with
satisfaction at the prospect of high prices
for his goods and low wages for his em-
ployees ; the trusts are joyful; the cost of
living, which has been rising steadily of
late, must rise still higher; and a Parlia-
ment, which was elected by Australia, vot-
ing as a nation, is impotent to do anything
in the matter, because a politically-appointed
“Third Parliament,” which is responsible to
no one, puts, by a majority of three to two,
a certain interpretation on our Constitu-
tion.
Assume that in an Australian town there
was only one doctor, and that he, as a re-
sult of the British Medical Association hav-
ing gone quite mad, was debarred from per-
forming any but minor operations, or from
prescribing any drug but senna-tea. The
residents would certainly get together, as
soon as they grasped the full purport of the
situation, and insist that the medico should
get the insane embargo removed, or agitate
to have the British Medical Association re-
formed, or retire and make way for another
practitioner. Australia is in this grotesque
position. It can do the small legislative
things without hindrance. It can attend to
lighthouses, lightshins, beacons and buoys;
to fisheries in Australian waters beyond ter-
ritorial limits; to astronomical and meteor-
ological observations, and so on. But in re-
gard to most of the big things—the things
which it was created to accomplish—its use-
fulness is on a par with that of Judkins.
It is incredible that the country should be
content to remain in this blind alley. The
question is, How is it to get out?
* * * *
During the American Civil War, Con-
gress, acting under the power in the Ameri-
can Constitution which authorises it to
“coin money and regulate value,” made
Treasury notes legal tender. The U.b. feu-
preme Court has always been divided, as
the Australian High Court is to-day, between
Judges in favor of the strictest construction
being put on the Constitution, and Judges
who favor a broad construction. It would
be unjust to an upright body of men to put
the phenomenon down to rancorous party
feeling, surviving in an atmosphere where
nothing of the sort should exist. It is rather
seemingly a matter of temperament. Thus,
in Australia, Justice O’Connor, whose poli-
tical tendencies were democratic, interprets
our Constitution in the narrowest sense,
while Justice Isaacs, who was a DEAKiN-ite
Anti-Socialist, takes the broad view. In
3870, when the Legal Tender cases were
heard, the U.S. Supreme Court happened to
consist of five Judges who interpreted the
Constitution narrowly, and three who inter-
preted it broadly. By a majority of five to
three, the Court declared invalid the Act ot
Congress making Government paper a legal
tender for debts. The situation was impos-
sible As James Bryce —an eminent
thority who has always insisted that the
credit and dignity of the U.S. Supreme Court
stand very high”—puts it: —
The Court was changed by the creation of an ad-
ditional judgeship, and by the appointment of a
new member- to fill a vacancy which occurred alter
the settlement, though before the delivery of the
first decision. Then the question was brought up
again in a new case between different parties, and
decided in the opposite sense (i.e., in favor of the
power of Congress to pass legal tender A"ets) by a
majority of five to four. Finally, in 1884, another
suit having brought up to a point practically the
same, though under a later statute passed by Con-
gress, the Court determined, with only one dis-
sentient voice, that the power existed.
To the conservative mind this procedure
may appear objectionable. And yet there
is no more reason why a bench of Judges
should defeat the people’s will, as clearly
and repeatedly expressed, than that any
other institution should. Australia has de-
manded the New Protection and Common-
wealth control of monopolies so clamantly
that the most rabid of “Liberals” shrink from
openly opposing either. The fact that, last
month, about 23 per cent, of the Common-
wealth electors voted against a set of pro-
posals designed, among other things, to ef-
fectuate these policies, is neither here nor
there. It is incredible that even those who were
humbugged into voting Anti-Labor by “Liber-
alism’s” wild threats of revolution and blood-
shed meant to vote in favor of low wages for
factory hands and increased prices for con-
sumers. Yet these serious troubles must
smite the Commonwealth for so long as the
Constitution remains unamended, or the
personnel of the High Court remains un-
altered. Since, at the best, the Constitu-
tion cannot be touched for two years, Par-
liament and the country might do worse than
follow the U.S. precedent, and turn their at-
tention to the Court.
THE DISADVANTAGE OF BEING DEAD.
The native population of one of Sydney’s
slum areas appeals against the erection of
factories on the site of the late hovels. The
protesting patriots desire to have fresh slums
of newer design created in the old neighbor-
hood, in order to satisfy their cat instinct
for sleeping and eating near their birth-
place. The fact is a remarkable one, of
which due note should be taken by all fresli-
air enthusiasts who imagine that they are
alleviating human woe when they seek to
replace ant-heaps by garden cities of health
and beauty. To those who have a penchant
for sunshine and oxygen, the contrast be-
tween Arcadia and Chippendale may seem
to be as that of life and death; but this view
is not shared by the troglodytes inhabiting
the brick caverns of Blackfriars. Terms
and names are often put to strange uses ; and
so these people speak of having homes in
the walled wildernesses of the grimiest
slums, and of living in the pent streets and
crooked alleys which have grown up, < or
fallen down, within a stone’s throw of im-
portant city thoroughfares. The whole
business adds a new complexity and weird-
ness to the ancient mystery of existence.
* * * *
“To be or not to be?” Ever since the
Prince of Denmark first made the remark in
the Globe Theatre, it has been freely recog-
nised both by the gods and those occupying
reserved stalls, that this is the question;
and although it is occasionally necessary to
give earnest consideration to the problem of
how to keep on being, the public vote is
enormously in favor of the view that it is
worth while to be alive. It may, in fact,
be taken as an axiom that humanity has a
distinct prejudice against death, and that
dying is regarded as one of the most objec-
tionable processes known to science. The
fact that the habit is strongly implanted,
and the unpleasant practice largely in
vogue, must not be taken as evidence to the
contrary. Human nature is a paradoxical
affair at best; and the extent to which the
custom of dying prevails is no more a proof
of its popularity than the recent “No” vote
is an indication of the permanent and incur-
able insanity of the voters of Australia.
Yet \thile this prejudice against being dead is
large, it is vague and indefinite, probably be-
cause no very clear idea of the nature of
death exists in the public mind. It is gen-
erally recognised that stones, six-year-old
debts, and Julius CLesar are dead, while
cabbages, Commonwealth notes and John
Smith are alive; but the degree of life and
death in every case varies, and many things
alleged to be in a live state have so much
in common with the average corpse that it is
a matter for the decision of experts in which
category they ought to be placed. Thus it is
a thing of common knowledge that William
Shakspeare has been lying under a tomb-
stone for nearly four centuries; yet he is
considerably more alive than many an Aus-
tralian William who offers passive resist-
ance to the fungus which might otherwise
grow upon verandah posts. Similarly, the
fossils of the Old Red Sandstone period are
supposed to represent the corpses of animals
long defunct; but their vigor and sprightli-
ness of thought is in marked contrast to the
alleged life which inhabits the ancient strata
of our Legislative Councils.
* * * *
Confining the investigation to the human
animal, we find men and women in all stages
of life and death both below and above the
ground. Some are in funeral urns, some in
drawing-rooms, some in tombs of varied de-
sign, some in factories and offices, a few m
skeleton form recline on the bottom of the
sea, others dwell unburied in caves ot air-
less brick, and a certain number may be
found in Parliament and in the asylums
for the insane. The degree of liveness or
deadness varies greatly; but appearances are
deceptive, and the extreme of deadness may
be reached by those who still keep their pipes
alight, oi* continue to address crowds from
balconies. The disease of death is both
endemic and epidemic; and the kind which
requires no certificate from a doctor, and
calls for neither inquest nor post-mortem
examination, is at once the most widely
spread and the most influential in its nature.
The legend, “He being dead yet speaketh,
which has been engraved on many notable
tombstones, might with equal fitness be
pasted inside a large portion of the public
hat, or inscribed upon a considerable amount
of the world’s visiting card. Unfortunately
the recent census enumeration took no note
of this aspect of affairs, and we have no
ready means of discovering what proportion
of the four or five millions of the Australian
population may still be living, and how many
of those who wrote M or F on their papers
are merely keeping up a show of vitality
until the undertaker is free to attend to
their needs. Statisticians are merely con-
cerned with the superficial appearance ot
things; and no Australian is regarded as of-
ficially dead until his or her conclusive en-
velope has been ordered from the timber
yard The public is thus kept in ignorance
of the true facts of the case,. and it is there-
fore necessary to show the intimate connec-
tion between physical and outward death,
and the alleged life that is practised about
certain portions of the city of Sydney.
The disadvantages of being dead in a phy-
sical sense are numerous. In the grave
there is a complete absence of air, sunlight,
aDd pleasant intercourse. It is quite im-
possible for any person enclosed in a narrow
coffin to fill his lungs full of good air, to leei
the warm and kindly sunshine falling
through a crystal atmosphere, to grasp the
hand of a friend, or feel the delights of
kindly companionship. The blue skies are
hidden; the stars are obscured by an over-
coat of clay. There is no hint of bright
flowers or waving branches; the rush of
singing waters and the chatter of bright
birds are alike unheard. No converse on
high themes is possible; no vision of beauty
delights the eye. Whatever the supposed
advantages of the tomb may be, it is plain
that the resident there is surrounded,
hemmed in, and imprisoned on all sides by
dirt. Dirt is before his eyes, dirt is be-
neath his feet, dirt encompasses his whis-
kers, dirt is spread upon his garments, dirt
is around, above, on all sides. In a word,
the great disadvantage of being dead is just
dirt.
The slum portions of Sydney are officially
reported to contain persons who are. alive;
but a close examination of the conditions by
which they are surrounded goes to show
that the very advantages which they are so
loth to relinquish are similar in nature,
scope and quality to all that is regarded as
disadvantageous in the regular and recog-
nised grave. It is quite impossible for any
person living in a slum to fill his lungs full
of good air; the sunshine which reaches
him struggles down between the pent houses
through a murky, second-hand atmosphere;
and all friendship and pleasant intercourse
wither before the prevailing suspicion and
distrust. Flowers, trees and birds, the
grace of art and the grandeur of knowledge
are rigidly built out by the grimy walls of
brick. Through the dirty windows there
comes no hint of blue sky by day, nor of
clear starlight by night. The view is re-
stricted to the neighbors’ sombre-hued wash-
ing on the line, and the narrow alley where
the unkempt children play. No vision of
beauty delights the eye; no gleam of high
thought or noble aim finds an entrance there.
Be the disadvantages of a slum life what
they may, it is plain that the resident there
appreciates the advantage of being hemmed
in and imprisoned on all sides by dirt. Dirt
is before the eyes, dirt is beneath the feet,
dirt encompasses the whiskers, dirt is spread
upon the garments, dirt is around, above, on
all sides. In a word, the great advantage
of living in a slum is just dirt.
* * * *
The parallel between the grave and the
slum is thus so complete that the difference
between Rookwood and portions of the city
of Sydney is merely a nominal one; and a
further connection between the places indi-
cated is maintained by the very steady pro-
cession of corpses which flows from the open
graves of the city to the burial place in the
suburbs. This is inevitable.. An open
grave in a place of population is a constant
menace to the whole community. The
riotous microbe of disease feasts at will in
the pent streets, narrow rooms, and filthy
yards of the slums. The good air and sun-
shine that make for life and health are ex-
cluded, and physical death holds revei
wherever mental and moral death spread the
banquet.
* * *' *
Something has been done in the way of re-
clamation. Areas that would have been a
discredit to a city of mediaeval Europe, and
a by-word if seen in the purlieus of a Hotten-
tot capital, are being slowly transformed in-
to something else. Rows of human sties
are giving place to factories and markets;
but the effort lags far behind up-to-date civic
thought. Certain parts of the city have
been labelled slums, and marked down for re-
building ; but street upon street where the
conditions only differ from those of the con-
demned areas as pigs differ from swine, are
regarded as healthy and altogether delect-
able. Terraces of ill-ventilated and over-
crowded brick houses are packed into every
available space, regardless of comfort and
even of common decency; and the thoroughly
respectable tenants who pay the landlord for
the right to die in them would resent, with
the ardor of patriots defending their, native
shores, any attempt to cleanse their sur-
roundings with sunlight and air. But,
though this horrible misview of things is
plain, it is not quite clear what is to be
done about it. The prejudice which exists
against being dead and buried under a tew
feet of soil does not, unfortunately, extend
to any other sort of death and burial. The
thing to do is to create the prejudice. And
first we must attack that system of drawing
all things to one bloated capital, because that
system is responsible for more than mere
congestion and the creation of slums. Its
effect has been to sb pervert healthy human
feeling that the person in the. living tomb
has become enamored of the sights, smells
and pollution of the placet He refuses to
come out even when the door is thrown open,
and publicly pleads to be" allowed this share
of corruption and dirt. Yet there is an
antidote for even so gross a disease as
the dirt poison in a people’s blood ; and that
antidote will grow and flourish if planted at
Port Stephens, Twofold Bay and other nat-
ural gateways for the trade of Eastern Aus-
tralia.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Trusts, Oppressive and Otherwise.
The pro-trust or “Liberal’’ party continues
to make vigorous play with the argument
that various Laborites have at different times
approved of specific combines as tending to
obviate cut-throat competition and keep
wages on a decent level. Only last week
Sydney Telegraph, echoing the Adelaide
Register, reminded W. M. Hughes that
he had “bestowed his pontifical blessing on
certain vends —the inference being that h
was inconsistent of him to object thereatt
to the doings of any vend. The point whic
is severely overlooked is that there w
vends and vends. A large P art ot "f,"
many’s industrial business is in the han
of big associations. Yet there is no complaint
about their methods. Said one obser
the other day:— .
The Conservatives, the moneyed Nationally >
the so-called Free-minded Radicals, and the
Democrats hold in wide outline the same con
regarding the legitimacy of syndicates.
The explanation is i that they are °
formed, and invariably closely watched
controlled, by the Imperial Government.


For example, some years ago, the potash pro-
ducers of Germany entered into merciless
competition among themselves. lo ob-
viate a general smash the Imperial Govern-
ment stepped in. The Governments ot An-
halt, Prussia and Alsace-Lorraine had tor
many years been members of the Potash
Syndicate, which was formed in 18 t 9, to
take in the Prussian Governments two
mines, and two private concerns, with a
Prussian official as chairman. Other con-
cerns came in as the demand for potash tor
making fertiliser grew. On June 30, 1309,
the Syndicate agreements expired, and could
not be renewed, because one large concern
thought it could make more money by run-
ning its mines at their fullest capacity, and
selling the produce on the American market,
the largest buyer. Long-time contracts
were thus made within an hour or two after
midnight on June 30. The Prussian Cabinet
thereupon recommended the Imperial Gov-
ernment to pass a Bill forming a compul-
sory syndicate. The Bill was introduced,
but withdrawn owing to a protest from theU.S.
to the effect that American contracts were
affected. It was, however, almost immediately
reintroduced with some verbal alterations,
and passed. It is to run for 20 years, al-
lots to each of 65 mines the proportion it
may produce, prices are to be fixed by the
Federal Council, and minute regulations
about wages, ventilation, etc., protect the
miners. If the Australian Government
could forbid the Colonial Sugar Refining
Co. to charge so exorbitantly for its wares
that up-country storekeepers are forced to
retail sugar at cost price; or if it could com-
pel the Sydney and Melbourne gas cos. to
provide the public with good gas at the rate
(say) at which the Municipal Gas Works of
Bathurst supply it; or if it could protect
the Sydney consumer from being charged 4d.
for an apple for which the grower probably
got half a farthing, there would be the same
lack of anti-trust feeling in this country that
there is in Germany. Unfortunately the
High Court has ruled that the Australian
Parliament can do none of these things.
There is a lot to be said for combines whose
operations are controllable by a democrati-
cally-elected Parliament. But there is not
a word to be said, by any Democrat, on be-
half of the sort of trust which, being inde-
pendent of Government supervision or in-
terference, exploits both the harassed pro-
ducer of raw products and the harassed con-
sumer of the finished goods to the limit of
their endurance.
-4.
British Criminal Injustice.
“Lex” on the one-sidedness of criminal
trials: —
The Bulletin mentioned (11/4/T1) the gigantic
organisation an accused person who is without
means has to face under British law, and cited the
fact that in the murder-trial of Stinie Morrison
last month the police were able, for the purposes of
the Crown case, to put their hands on every taxi-cab
driver who was in a certain district at a certain
date. An even more striking example of the “pull”
which the Crown has over its prey occurred in this
case. The Crown Prosecutor opened that the pris-
oner, at the police station, had mentioned murder
before he was ever charged with it. This allega-
tion, though denounced by Morrison as a lie, was
made the most prominent feature of the
opening, and of the conduct of the Crown
case. Said the Crown Prosecutor: “Detec-
tive Brogden will tell you, gentlemen, that
the prisoner said to him —‘You have charged me with
murder.’ Gentlemen, the detective had done no-
thing of the kind, and he will come here and tell
you so. The prisoner had evolved this charge out
of his guilty inner consciousness,” etc.
Detective Brogden duly came along and sup-
ported this opening. In the last stages of the trial
—just before the summing-up, in fact —leave was
given the defence to call a new witness —Constable
Greaves —who had been in the charge-room at the
time with Brogden and the prisoner. Greaves, im-
pelled, as he put it, by the dictates of his conscience,
swore that Brogden did charge the prisoner with
murder. It became a question whether Brogden or
Greaves was lying. Obviously evidence as to the
character of each was of vital import, in order that
the jury might choose between the two. The Crown
knew at midnight that Greaves was going to be
called by the defence, and at 11 the next morning
he went into the box. His evidence-in-chief lasted
but a minute or so, and he was cross-examined for
an hour and a-half. The 11 hours grace had been
sufficient to enable the Crown’s organisation to pre-
pare an elaborate dossier of Greaves’s entire career,
to hand the same to the Crown Prosecutor, and in-
struct him how to use it. Greaves’s whole life, in
its minutest details, was entered into, right down
to date; and although it has no relevance to the
point made here, it may be mentioned that he came
out of the fray with credit.
Of course the Crown did not furnish a similar
life-history of its own witness, Brogden. For the
prisoner to have prepared one half so complete as
that of Greaves’s would have involved the employ-
ment by him of a full company of solicitors, a
battalion of clerks and a regiment of private detec-
tives. Brogden left the court practically unchal-
lenged as to his past' record. The jury accepted
his story. Morrison was convicted.
It is well known to lawyers that the Crown de-
pends for something, like 80 per cent, of its con-
victions on what the prisoner says on his arrest. It
is also well known that in certain cases the police
are none too delicate in the methods they employ to
sheet home guilt on an accused. To secure the
conviction, for example, of Digby Grand and Jones,
eight years ago, the N.S.W. police authorities stuck
at nothing. The men were suspected, rightly or
wrongly, of having done more than murder one
policeman, and the object was to get them out of
the way at any price.
In cases of this sort —and they are common —the
Crown holds all the cards, the prisoner none. He is
led to the shambles without even the satisfaction of
hearing his side of the ease articulately voiced. A
country does not do complete justice to a man on
trial for his life even when it provides him with an
able and experienced counsel. He requires also to
be given, as nearly as possible, the same facilities for
testing the bona, fides of the Crown witnesses as the
Crown has for testing his witnesses. It would be ex-
pensive. But it is better that much State money
should be spent than that one innocent man should be
hanged.
The Cow Slaves.
This is the sort of letter (it comes from
the N.S.W. South Coast) that makes The
Bulletin want to go out and hit somebody
with its heaviest, soggiest umbrella: —
The sooner this Rural Workers Bill becomes law
the better it will be for the country. Our children
are being worked silly ; and that’s how it is, when
they grow to be men, they are too tired, or some-
thing, to demand their rights. The coal miners,
and other workers, can, and do, look after a living
wage ; but the poor dairy hand has neither time nor
energy. And, what about child labor! In this
district a child, eight years old, is hired by a low-
down cocky, for one shilling a week, to milk ten
cows night and morning. He has, too, to trudge
two miles across snaky paddocks to do it. I know ,
because I happen to be the child’s teacher ; and I’m
asked by the parents to let him out early. You
should just see the poor little tired kiddie. The
sight of those wee, chapped and bleeding hands goes
to my heart.
Doesn't N. S. Wales own one Shaftesbury
who will make this dreadful child-slavery
subject bis own, and hammer at it tin. he
achieves reform? Isn’t there one politician
in N. S. Wales who will do something for the
poor, shivering little helots, tramping bare-
footed in the slush of the cow-yard, some-
times having a toe well-nigh amputated
through being trodden on by the cloven hoof
of the Cow-devil —isn’t there one who will
do it for them, even though the poor little
helots can’t yet express their gratitude with
a vote?
Sydney, Sin, and Clerical Bellowdrama.
Sydney takes first place among the cities of the
world so far as sin is concerned.—Rev. S. D. YAr-
rington, at the Town Hall (11/5/’ll).
It is the usual wild, baseless allegation
which a certain class of “reformer” hurls
with the object of attaching a spurious im-
portance to his job. There are no means of
identifying the world’s most sinful town;
and no one except a cleric of the Worrall
breed, or the type of lay moralist who
claimed, the other day, to have discovered
a pubful of drunken children outside
“one of the most brightly-lighted hotels of
the city,” would venture to dogmatise on the
subject. Nevertheless, on all the available
evidence Sydney is rather a virtuous place
as cities go. In London ladies with pro-
nounced Pasts pervade the chief streets in
such numbers that, after 5 p.m. or there-
abouts, respectable women do not care to go
out unattended. The more expensive music-
halls-—the Empire, Alhambra, and others—
are recognised assignation places. In Pai'is,
the mere fact that women are in a restaur-
ant or music-hall, without their men folk,
or in the street after dark, is accepted as
proof presumptive that they are Lost. A
Saint Cecilia would be immediately accost-
ed, with intent, at any hour of the day, pro-
vided she attempted to stroll down the Rue
de la Paix alone. The proportion of ille-
gitimates in Peebles, as compared with Syd-
ney, is, allowing for the difference in popu-
lation, as 5 to 2. In the average seaport
town of Southern Italy the moral code of
Casanova’s day still obtains. The Right
Thinking person might walk through the
streets of Sydney for six weeks and not ex-
perience the severe moral shocks that he
would within a quarter of an hour of step-
ping ashore at, say, Brindisi. Tokio’s
Yoshiwara would put the capital of Japan
well ahead of Sydney for the vice stakes,
even if the rest of the population pretended
to morality, which they don’t. In Singa-
pore, according to Coghlan, 228 per 1000 of
the population are in gaol, which beats the
criminal figures for the Sydney metropolitan
police district by about 3 to 1. In Liver-
pool (England) 42 drunks are convicted
yearly per 1000 of the population; in Syd-
ney only 45 persons out of every 1000 are
apprehended, for all offences against good
order, ihcluding drunkenness. And there is
San Francisco, which claims to show Paris
and, Yienpa points in what is euphemistically
termed “gaiety” ; and New York, where Tam-
many lives, and the deaths from drink aver-
age 12 per 1000 per annum; and Constanti-
nople, which resembles, in an ethical man-
ner of speaking, those cities which Genesis
mentions as having gone “up as the smoke
of a furnace.” A point missed by the Aus-
tralian reformer who howls about the im-
morality of Sydney is that, if Sydney is what
he says, the matter constitutes a deplorable
advertisement for him and his political
henchmen. Sydney has almost as many ca-
thedrals, tabernacles, churches, chapels, mis-
sions and bethels as it has bars. It is al-
most the only city in the world where the
trams are held up to permit the populace to
Worship in peace. It is almost the only city
where the dailies habitually employ Rever-
end editors. It is one of the few remaining
spots on this enlightened globe where clerics
are able to bulldoze working people into
voting for low wages and monopoly prices
on sectarian grounds. It shares with
Alaska (where the pubs shut at 10 p.m.) the
reputation of going longer between drinks
than any other civilised town. It is riddled
with Liquor Acts, Anti-Gambling Acts and
other ligislative aids to morality. In fact,
by comparison with other big cities, Sydney
is moral—not to say Wowserish. The local
reformer, for obvious reasons, will not admit
it. But he should be discouraged, in the
public interest, from going to the other ex-
treme. Mud sticks, even when it is only
thrown by a sensation-loving cleric.
The Australian Pressman.
A few words from the Press table
By permission of the Court, I desire to make a few
remarks on the Australian pressman, consequent
upon the recent complaint of Justice Pring (N.S.W.),
concerning inaccurate law-reports. “I have seen
things published of myself in papers,” said his
Honor, “which were no more true than a statement
would be that I am standing now where you are”
(this to a barrister who was at the Bar table) ;
and, again, “a Judge, now dead, was represented to
have said something in his summing-up in a notori-
ous criminal ease which he had not said at all. He
said, on the contrary, something which he had a
perfect right to say; and yet there are numbers of
very intelligent people who believe the incorrect
version.” Now, as for Justice Pring, in particular,
I, myself, have sat beneath him at a series of the
most "important trials ever' conducted in N. S. Wales,
and had to drop, in two places, portions of his sum-
ming-up that I could not hear. No doubt Mr. Pring
read that report next day, and condemned the fool
who did the work just as heartily as I condemned
the party who was responsible for the address.
Counsel can, and frequently do, rise and say, “I beg
v’ On’s pardon; I did not catch what y’ On’r said” ;
but I know precisely what Mr. Justice Pring would
reply, polite as he always is, if a pressman similarly
broke the thread of his remarks. Take Justice
Cohen. He talks with his throat, and calls tenders
for misreports. Others, both on the High Court
Bench and the States’ Benches, tail off their sen-
tences to a mumble that would necessitate their
associates having an ear-trumpet if they had any
desire to hear the wisdom. Then the reporter takes
his reputation in one hand and his job in the other,
and does the best he can with what is audible.
It is the same with Parliamentarians on the floor
of the House. If for no other reason, there was
general thankfulness when Gregory Wade lost his
Premiership, because he was so difficult to “take”
from the Gallery of the Assembly. The reporter’s
trouble was, that Gregory bounced his words against
the roof of his mouth, and three or four of J them
would rush out locked together. Alfred Deakin
once complained that the report of a speech he made
did not “read sense” in parts, which is a proof that
on that occasion, anyhow, he was accurately noted.
I was there giving a hand, and I well remember one
sentence that contained 10 parentheses. Premier
McGoiven, when he was leader of the Opposition in
N. S. Wales, more than once made the charge that
interviews with him were distorted; but so rambling
and obscure was McGowen then (he has improved
since) that it was difficult even for men familiar
with the subject, and more familiar with the speaker,
to state his case clearly. And if it got astrav 'in
the process it was the reporter whom McGowen
invariably blamed, of course. I’ve known cases, too,
where high and allegedly honorable politicians have
furiously repudiated a statement made in the heat
of the moment or the fizz. I have two in my mind
now which had considerable notoriety, but, although
the law of libel was available, it was not moved;
and for an excellent reason.
In interviewing people, also, I claim for the Aus-
tralian reporter that there is no more honest penman
on the planet. The methods that exist in America,
particularly, if suggested to an Australian pressman,
would be met with hob-nailed remarks. I am saying
nothing of managerial influence on the editorial de-
partment ; my case is entirely with the man who
gets the news and the facts. And in this country—-
glory be!—the managerial hand on the metropoli-
tan papers has, so far, not guided the reporter’s
pencil. It is utterly inconceivable to Australian
paper men how their American brothers would lay
themselves open to such a denunciation as that of
Hugo Munsterberg, the psychologist, in McCbure’s
Magazine for February last. Munstebberg, although
emphatically and invariably refusing to be inter-
viewed, was “starred” in leading papers of New
York and elsewhere throughout the United States, as
the giver of interviews on subjects which had never
crossed his mind until he saw them in print. One
pressman begged Munstebberg to answer a few
questions for his private information as a
master to a student. On that understanding the
answers were given, were promptly printed, and, at
the bottom of the story, fun was poked at the learned
scientist for being such a bad psychologist that he
did not know when he was being interviewed. Mun-
sterberg asks if, after his experiences, he can be
blamed if he cannot read any interview or report
except with the underlying feeling that it is probably
exaggerated, confused, or altogether invented. Could
that even be hinted in Australia ?
Mistakes will happen in reporting just as in judg-
ing a law-suit or a girl; but for my client, the Aus-
tralian pressman (and I include the Maorilander), I
submit that they are unconscious mistakes, made in
good faith, and, on the whole, few and far between.
And the man who is most sorry is the man who
makes the slip.
A Weary Way of Providing Cool Stores.
If those Victorian primary producers who
depend on the export trade to get rid of their
produce don’t keep their eyes open, they may
presently find themselves pushed into a deep
ditch. Some years back, to save these inno-
cents from being exploited by the private
owners of cool stores, the then Government
hired the badly-situated City Council stores
on a yearly lease, which has since been re-
newed from time to time. These producers
may recollect that Bent’s Minister of Agri-
culture, Swinburne, a great champion of
Private Enterprise, once proposed to let the
lease run out, and hand the business over
to P.E. entirely, but was “persuaded” other-
wise. Swinburne isn’t Minister of Agri-
culture now; Graiiam is, which is some-
thing. But Graham isn’t everything. He
is merely one member of a Ministry notori-
ously fatigued and procrastinating, and,
therefore, easily induced to “let someone
else do the job.” Wherefore the producer-
innocents, especially those dependent on the
butter and meat export trades, should ponder
over the facts that the State lease of the
City Council’s stores expires on June 30
next; that the Council now proposes to
build a new lot of cool stores at Newmarket,
and no doubt will attempt to load the cost of
both lots on to the producer; and that the
State Cool Stores, which John Weary and
Co. undertook to build in the right place,
alongside the Victoria dock, and which were
to be ready for the season starting next
August, are not yet commenced. In the ab-
sence of State Stores, the producer seems to
be in for a squeeze ; and if he isn’t wide awake
he may presently encounter the clutch of
Private Enterprise; and that may be worse
than a squeeze—it may be a death-grip.
This extract from the Toronto Globe
(13/7/’10) shows what State Rights eain do
when they take off their coat and really get
to business: —
Attorney-General Bowser, of British Columbia,
has positively refused to suspend the operation of
the Companies Act of 1910, which practically pre-
vents extra-provincial companies from doing business
in Columbia except under conditions that are onerous
in the extreme. The Eastern manufacturers and
merchants, who have secured legal advice as to the
scope of the law, have been assured that even the
writing of a letter to a British Columbia house, so-
liciting business, is an illegal act, unless the com-
pany so soliciting lias obtained a license or registra-
tion under the British Columbia law. This is a de-
gree of exclusion altogether undreamt of in the Com-
panies Act of Ontario, on which that of British
Columbia was supposed to have been modelled, and
makes the Pacific Province a sort of Commercial
Tibet—a walled-in State;
That is State Rights, naked and unashamed
—the beautiful thing which the Australian
trading person in particular thinks he must
defend at all hazards. Some day, when a
Bowser arrives, he will find the beautiful
thing getting up and hitting him violently in
the eye.
♦
“The Poor Parmer” : Strange that when
the commission agent drives out in his lordly
motor-car and charges me per cent, on all
stock in the paddock, or when my fatted
landlord scoops in his yearly toll, or when
the “reconstructed” bank calmly charges me
10s. per annum for “minding” my current
account for me, or when any one of the hun-
dred and one cormorants who are ever prey-
ing on the farmer, and praying him and bray-
ing him to vote the Anti-Labor ticket, collect
something extra-outrageous, not one of my
many “paper” friends sheds a tear for
me. But when a toil-worn, dust-
stained farm hand arrives per broken
blucher, with a bluey on his shoul-
der and a hollow ’neath his shirt in the
place where the boodler has a bulge, and
asks for a living wage, just a bare 30 bob a
week, how the floodgates of the “friendly”
hearts open for me! I can hear the drip of
the. large fat tears falling as the mail boy
arrives, bowed with the weight of the
Argus’s grief. The local Echo re-echoes
the mournful monotony. “Mother of Ten”
again mothers her ten in all her agony in
the “Correspondence column”; “City Clerk”
expresses his wholesome views in a perfect
hand on his perfumed page; and “Pro Bonn
Publico,” who must be quite bald and tooth-
less now, does his stunt on the old page again.
Funny, isn’t it? Yet the toil-stained
bluey-laden, bluchered bloke gives me, as a
rule, value for my lucre, far better than the
conservative storekeeper does ; far, far better
than the “right-thinking” manure agent
does ; still farther better than the commission
catching, dust-raising motor-hog does, whilst
to compare his honest service with the part
my landlord plays for me is the ultimate
height of blasphemy. Still, all these vultures
are my “friends,” whilst my greatest enemy
is the “man” who ploughs my stubborn
ground for me, knowing that a harvest will
come of his labor, but that beyond his sub-
sistence wage he will not share it, though
each and every of the aforesaid vultures will.
—♦ ;
Winton, “away out” in Queensland, has a
scheme of its own for keeping the wolf from
the door of its local hospital. Hundreds of
people have a few pounds or shillings which
they haven’t got any immediate use for, so
they drop the coin into an old stocking, or
leave it to the credit of their current bank
account, and it doesn’t earn them a ha’penny
in either place. Winton suggested that peo-
ple like that might as well drop the money,
or some of it, into a Fund or Bank, and it
reckoned that there would be always a total
large enough to be earning something. Since
February 1, 1908, £13,823 has been deposited
and £10,404 has been withdrawn, leaving
£3419 on hand; and £3lOO of that is bearing
interest. The earnings pay the doctor s
salary, and nobody is a penny the poorer—
unless perhaps it be the big banks, which
used to get the free use of some of the
money; but they certainly are not worrying
about the trifle. It is, in fact, money saved
from waste; and all the successful scheme
has needed has been a bit of organising on
the part of a few, and a bit of public spirit
on the part of the many.
♦
From London Morning Post (23/3/T1) :
LADY CHELMSFORD REQUIRES immediately
First-rate KITCITENMATD for State Government
House, Sydney, Australia; wages, £4O ; passage
paid both ways if remains two years.—Apply two
o’clock or after seven, Dowager Lady Chelmsford, 34
Onslow Square, S.W.
N.S.W. pays the Chelmsford family £5OOO
per annum for opening its bazaars and so
forth, and throws in a couple of rent-free
houses to boot. In the circumstances, it is
justified more or . less, in expecting that the
native-born kitchenmaid shall be given the
chance of a job in the vice-regal establish-
ment when anything of the sort is going.
The State needs immigrants, wherefore it
emphatically does not want the servitor who
comes here on the understanding that her
return fare to England shall be paid. Also,
the State needs advertisement; and it is the
worst sort of advertisement to proclaim in
the columns of a widely-read London paper
that vice-regality is obliged to import its
very kitchenmaids to this benighted spot.
The one cheering feature of the affair is the
implied declaration that the Chelmsfords’
indentured employee will not be arrested by
the Commonwealth immediately she arrives,
and cast into a dungeon, and generally treat-
ed as the Stinking Fish party said Ander-
son’s six free-born British hatters were
some years ago. Every free-born Briton
who arrives here under agreement to work,
and goes ungaoled, casts in this way a fresh
load of mud on one of Toryism’s favorite
lies.
♦
This sort of thing makes one wonder in
what state of mind these little English State-
Governors come to Australia. Hearken to
the words of S’Joiin Fuller, new Gov.
of Victoria, at a banquet in London: —
Although as Governor he would not be responsible
for the defence measures of the State, as an officer
in the Territorials he would be delighted to be of
any assistance in helping the system of defence.
(Cheers.)
Help ! A Territorial officer will help ! God
ha’ mercy on Australia! Here are some re-
cent facts regarding that alleged army of
British Territorials. Its deficiency below
nominal strength is over 40,000. About one-
third of its 267,000 so-called “men” are boys
between 17 and 20 years of age. In 1909,
one-sixth of its number never fired a shot
out of a rifle, and one-half of the total failed
to pass the easy qualification test in mus-
ketry (the standard was then lowered).
The conclusion of experts is that 200,000
Territorials would be rather less than equal
to 70,000 troops of any good European army,
or of the British regulars. Haldane’s army
has never been recruited up to its strength
since it began, and whatever recruiting it
has managed has been chiefly among what
General lan Hamilton calls “weedy hobble-
dehoys.” And a political captain of this
Retrospect.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There is not much reason to fear that Labor will
fail to feel the steadying influence of responsibility.
—S. M. Herald.
The usual “no confidence” motion is unnecessary.
During the recess little, if anything, has transpired
to throw any discredit on the administration of the
N.S.W. Government.—Sydney Telegraph.
But yesterday the Tory prophesied
Rank lawlessness and anarchy
If Anti-Socialism was defied.
The dailies tore round breathlessly,
And spoke of happy marriage bonds untied,
And homes destroyed remorselessly.
“Vote Sosh and be prepared for Blood,” they
cried,
“And open, shameless robbery!”
The worst occurred. The Labor party won;
Wild threats of gore endured a slump.
The Liberal put away his mtile gun,
Descended from the village pump,
And hedged. “Though legal murder be not
done,”
He said, “the Laborites will jump
On Trade: the Commonwealth’s commercial
sun
Will set, nor rise till Gabriel’s Trump.”
Each week saw one or more weird Tory yarns
Retailed to Labor’s detriment:
The widow’s mite, the farmer’s crops and
barns,
The Bible-banger’s Testament,
The banker’s horde, the settler’s fields and
tarns,
All looked for swift abolishment.
The party forged ahead ’mid “damns” and
“darns,”
And did not confiscate a cent.
No deed of purposeless “disloyalty”
Caused Empire Leaguers grief and pain.
The fears of Elliott Johnson, Lang’s
M.P.,
Proved quite foundationless and vain.
The Pope of Rome concealed whatever glee
He felt at Labor’s win. No stain
Was put upon the Flag. Prosperity
Descended on the land like rain.
To-day the Liberal tales of yesteryear
Are hopelessly discredited.
The Tiger “Socialism” causes fear
To no one. All the old-time dread
Of theft has been induced to disappear.
And lo! With ashes on its head,
The daily press stands forth and drops a
tear,
And eats its words from A to Z.
N.S.W.
H. SINGEMOINE.


Brought to Bay-
Are those enemies of civilisation, indigestion and
dyspepsia, when Dr. Sheldon’s Digestive Tabules
are employed ; 2s. 6d. per tin of 80 Tabules.*
BEARD’S British = Built Bioscope,
second to none. Sole Agents—Jerdan’s
Ltd., 393 George Street, Sydney. Let us send
you particulars.*
lARRINGTONS LTD
•» Supply House. P
The largest assortment of CINEMATOGRAPHS AND
FILMS always in stock by the World’s best makers.
If you want to procure a better supply of Films than
you are obtaining at present, get into communication
with us and state your requirements. Our Film
Library is the largest in the Commonwealth.
We are the people to give you satisfaction.
SYDNEY—MELBOURNE—BRISBANE—ADELAIDE.
THE VERDICT OF PRACTICAL USE,
ME. E. R. H. PICKERING, the well-known
sporting authority, writes “It will afford
me great pleasure to place on record my
appreciation of the splendid 3-H.P. * Invincible ’
engine you made forme nearly 18 months ago. It
has never given me any trouble, and it is a
splendid piece of workmanship. It is most
reliable. I knew nothing whatever about engines
when I got it, and yet I have never had any trouble
with it. It consumes very little oil, and is there-
fore cheap to run. The speed is about eight miles
per hour, that is without extending the engine.”
Invincible Engines = Absolute Reliability.
INVINCIBLE MOTOR CONSTRUCTION CO., LTD.,
WOOLWICH, SYDNEY.
Showrooms : 35 Pitt Street, Sydney.
519 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Bank Street, Adelaide.
Franz Josef
Lag'er Beer
SparKling',
Refreshing',
Exhilarating
and Ptire.
Franz Josef possesses the true Lager quality
and character, being sharp, clean, and of
light gravity.
tlisastrous “army” says that he is coming
here to give his delighted help to our system
of defence! Somebody ought to put S’ John
Fuller in the ice-chest for a week.
His help! A Captain of Territorials! A
Captain of Territorials!
+
Now that the N.S.YV. Government has de-
cided to get hold of an irrigation expert,
Labor has a chance of smiting the “imported
man” craze where it lives! There is no
reason to go to America and hold out several
thousand dollars for a person guaranteed to
know as much about running water as
Johnson knows about running trains. The
Government Fruit Expert, W. J. Allen,
should be able to hold the job if he is given
the chance. Allen has been in his present
billet about 13 years, and knows as much
about coaxing the apple off the tree and
chasing the wily codlin moth and other
similar matters as the next man. Before he
fot his present billet he was seven years at
lildura. Chaffey Bros, brought him out to
help the settlers and teach them how to irri-
gate their crops, fruit trees, etc. Before
that, again, he was for about 11 years at
Riverside, the pioneer water settlement in
California. Now, after 20 years, he is a
good Australian, who knows all about Aus-
tralian conditions, which a fresh importa-
tion would have to learn. Following usual
precedent the latter would probably make
some costly mistakes while he learned, just
as the Ciiaffeys did at Mildura. Through
expensive “bloomers” of that sort, Australia
has had such a sickener of imported experts
that an acclimatised one would be a whole-
some change, and the next best thing to the
locally-bred. Here is a particularly favor-
able chance for Labor to say so.
The other day Gregory Wade, K.C., V.C.,
etc., almost wept over the lone widows and or-
phans who might be starved if the State in-
terfered with the Sydney Ferries monopoly.
Now conies along the Privy Council’s judg-
ment on the appeal of the same warm-hearted
lawyer, as N.S.YY. Attorney-General, in the
Giddy-Williams case. Giddy, an ancient
public servant, established his claim before
the N.S.YV. Full Court to seven months’
salary as retiring allowance —a sum “not
exceeding one month’s salary” for seven years’
toil. Wade had contemptuously offered
7d., or one penny for each year, the “brown”
being a sum not exceeding a month’s pay,
and was thrown out on his legal ear. Then
he obtained leave to appeal to the Privy
Council, and this is how that body fell upon
the Public Service Board, which had nothing
to do with the 7d., in mistake for him: —
Did the Government, or, rather, did the Public
Service Board, in whose province the matter lay,
exercise any discretion at all as regards the plain-
tiff’s claim in respect to December 23, 1895 ? They
have awarded seven pennies for seven years’ employ-
ment, or, to be quite accurate, they have awarded
one farthing for every quarter of a year spent in the
service of the Government, and they have thrown
in an extra farthing to make even money. Well,
this is not the first occasion on which seven years’
faithful service has met with a recompense at once
unexpected and undesired. That is probably the
best that can be said for the action of the Board.
But was it reasonable? Was it fair? Few would
deem it a generous or handsome tribute to the work
of an old and faithful servant even with an extra
farthing thrown in. Plain folk would call it a
mockery, a sham, a pretence.
And, while you’re there, pass the Costs.
The Argus scruffs the A.N.A. because of
its agitation to secure thorough instruction
in Australian history in Australian State
schools. No one would dream, listening to
the paper’s splutter, that it was the most
pig-headed exponent of Jingoism on this con-
tinent :
It is a narrow superstition to make a fetich of our
own historical records to the neglect of everything
that led up to our being here at all. Peace-lovers,
like the members of the A.N.A., should reflect that
from such “historical” study spring Jingoism and
hatred.
But it is only Australian Jingoism that is de-
testable ; nothing, however mean, that ever
inspired an Australian native to make an
uproarious, long-eared Jingoistic animal of
himself over a British folly or an English
fad has yet found condemnation in Argus
columns. The fear of Australians becom-
ing markedly Australian pursues Fat like
a ravening nightmare. He would love to
stamp a piece out of our Commonwealth ex-
actly the shape of Old England, and sink
the rest a thousand fathoms deep, so eager
is he to preserve the likeness to the Mother
Country.
A deputation of railway workers called the
other day on the N.S.W. Treasurer to protest
against the astoundingly careless way in which dan-
gerous explosives are stored and used on railway
construction works. A couple of weeks back a man
was blown to pieces at Wyee, and as his was the
25th recorded death on railway works in the State
within the past three years, the deputation asked
the Minister whether he couldn’t do something.
The scandalised Carmichael expressed his aston-
ishment that it took 25 fatal accidents to serve as
an introduction to the matter, and promised to do
the something by first post. At present any sort
of lunatic may handle the explosives; and no
regulations exist bearing either on the length of
fuse to be used or on the distance of the magazine
from the works. In the Wyee case it is supposed
that a spark from the blacksmith’s shop caused
the magazine to stampede.
The circular inviting competitive designs
for a Federal Capital gives this sort of in-
formation about the city that Australia is
going to build on, presumably, the best site
it can find :
The greater part of the city area lies on the Mo-
longo River, and during periods of prolonged dry
weather the river ceases to run. It is readily ford-
able at short intervals during the greater part of
the year, though subject to sudden alterations in
volume. In 1891 the highest recorded flood took
place, when the waters overflowed the selected site
for the Federal Capital. The maximum recorded
summer temperature is 104° . . . during winter the
temperature frequently falls below freezing point.
The Iscariots who sold their country for a
few pieces of silver (in expectation) are
giving Australia a beautiful advt. before a
cynical world.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ Jack and the Beanstalk.”
Royal “ The Dollar Princess."
Criterion “The Gay Gordons.”
Adeu'lH “ Under Two Flags.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Palace West’s Pictures.
New Princess West’s Pictures.
Lyceum Spencer’s Pictures.
Town Hall Sousa’s Band.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOlt COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “ The Third Degree.”
Royal “The Woman in the Case.”
Her Majesty’s “Our Miss Gibbs.”
Kino’s “ The Squatter’s Daughter.”
Oi’EUA House Rickards’Vaudeville Co,
West’s Palace West’s Pictures.
Olympia Spencer’s Pictures
Glaciarium Taits’Pictures.
Lyric, Prahran Photo Plays.
It is difficult to sit still through a Sousa
march —the music is ordering you all the time
to awake, arise and step out briskly. So
the audience compromises by letting its feet
go as soon as the last note is sounded. The
first concert of the Band’s Australian tour,
at Sydney Town Hall, on Monday night,
was thus a riot of encores. The big audi-
ence came prepared for enthusiasm; and
the brisk, quiet, famous man and his perfectly-
trained wind-orchestra —as he prefers to call
it —earned all the applause the crowd had
brought with it. Sousa himself, the trim,
eye-glassed and bearded conductor, who calls
forth, directs and controls the always-inter-
esting music with quaintly expressive move-
ments of his hands and body, holds the at-
tention of the onlooker all the way. He
uses his baton like no other man who ever
stood in front of a band. Sometimes he bats
with it, as, for instance, when he sweeps
joyously into the “El Capitan” march; at
other times he uses it like a toy bayonet to
bring a clash from the cymbals; and he has
a way of smoothing out the sound waves by
bringing it slowly round in a wide circle.
While the baton is talking to the brasses, the
white-gloved left hand, signalling to the
wind instruments, is kept as busy as
a flagship’s Morse lamp. By the sudden
contraction of the fingers the twittering of
the flutes is stopped. He seems always to
be delicately holding the thread-reins of the
music with that eloquent left hand and the
tip of the baton. In trying to express that
idea, American cartoonists have managed to
give people the idea that the March King is
a gymnastic band-leader. Actually he is a
Music Admiral with a genius for signalling.
The Band itself may be described briefly as
the sombrely-clad instrument of 60 stops on
which he plays.
* * * *
The first programme was varied enough to
suit everyone; it ranged from the Tiinrihauser
Overture to a musical joke called “Has Any-
body Here Seen Kelly?” wherein the whole
menagerie of instruments took it in turn to
ask the question. The silver-plated ptero-
dactyl in the back row was the second-last
; inquirer. It asked sullenly after the where-
abouts of Kelly in a series of slow, sleepy
subterranean grunts which seemed to im-
ply that it had taken off its boots and gone
to bed for ten thousand years, and that if
Kelly didn’t turn up pretty shortly he would
be locked out and have to take his chance
of being talked to death by bald-headed mid-
night dodoes. And, while the giggle ran
round the hall, the very last inquirer about
Kelly chirped meekly like the smallest and
most nervous bird that ever whetted its beak
in the dawn on a frosty roof-gutter. A de-
licious trifle it was, beautifully done by a
musician with a strong sense of humor. “The
Bells of Moscow” (Rachmaninoff), Wagner’s
“Ride of the Y T alkyries,” Edward German’s
“Welsh” Rhapsody, and an Entr’acte by
Helmsberger were some of the Band’s other
programmed numbers. A strongly original
series of three musical “character sketches”
by Sousa himself proved interesting—par-
ticularly the first, which puts the noble Red
Man into music. Miss Virginia Root, the
soprano soloist with the co., sang with sym-
pathy and distinction “Maid of the Meadow”
—a graceful composition, also by Sousa, Miss
Nicoline Zedeler proved herself a finished
artist in a violin solo (Sarasate’s “Ziguener-
weisen”) ; and Herbert Clarke trumpeted
brilliantly a cornet solo, “Showers of Gold,”
the fluttering mellow notes of which exactly
suited the title. As has been mentioned be-
fore, the concert was a riot of encores. The
Band resnonded promptly with a care-banish-
ing sand-shuffle, or one of its leader’s
marches—the electric quicksteps that would
make even a Peace Society president aim
his hat at the sky and shoulder his way
somehow into the laughing ranks, without
troubling to inquire where they were march-
ing to.
* * **
The feature which differentiates “The
Gay Gordons” from all its predecessors is
the lavish and persistent way in which, from
start to finish, foodstuffs are thrown about,
stamped on, torn up and, generally, treated
like dirt beneath the performers’ feet. In a
community which is afflicted with a doken
different food combines, the wasteful spec-
tacle is painful. Carefully dressed “juven-
iles” have flour dashed in their faces and on
their clothes, a Gordon Highlander becomes
involved in a struggle with a mass of dough
and ultimately fells a friend with it;
chickens and pies are torn to pieces; cham-
pagne is poured out upon the stage; sand-
wiches are dropped, trodden on and objur-
gated ; blanc-manges are bounced upon the
earth, and bread is treated despitefully—in
short, the Comedy of Ruined Provender is
exploited to the top of its bent.
* * * *
There is plenty of humor in “The Gay
Gordons.” One may even say that there is
a surplusage of it; the dogged determination
of a number of the characters to be waggish
at any price grows trying at times. Angus
Graeme’s comic lovemaking in Act 2; Mr.
Siddons’s ecstasy at the prospect of temporary
solvency; his son’s idiocy, his wife’s ec-
centricity—all are grievously overdone.
There is as much falling down, kicking and
beating in this show as there is in a vaude-
ville knock-about turn. The net result is to
render the production less a musical comedy
than a music-hall extravaganza.
* * * *
A plot which is maturer in its essentials
than any of the performers’ jokes peers fit-
fully through the laughter-makers’ business.
Peggy Quainton, sole offspring of a U.S.
millionaire, fears that she may be married
for her father’s money, and so she changes
clothes with Victoria Siddons, the daughter
of a wandering Punch and Judy artist. An-
gus Graeme, private soldier, loves her under
the impression that she is poor. She loves
him under the delusion that he is a mere
Atkins. In reality he is the Earl of Mel-
trose —a fact which is disclosed by a de-
mented-looking Scotch person, presumably a
Writer to the Signet, who arrives tempest-
uously clad in a vast shawl and no hat, and
waving what to the journalistic eye, unused
to documents relating to the peerage, re-
semble a couple of judgment summonses.
Complications arise, due to America’s un-
precedented hostility to an alliance with a
Briton of title. But they are overcome; the
characters sort themselves out in a matri-
monial manner of speaking; the audience
reaches for its hat.
The central figure, Angus Graeme, is
played by Frank Lincoln, a useful and ener-
getic actor. His main handicap is that he
is not Seymour Hicks. This is one of those
genre characters which can only be success-
fully expressed by the unusual personality
around wdiich they are built. Miss Florence
Imeson (Peggy Quainton) dances astonish-
ingly for one who acts and sinsrs as well as
she does. Miss Nell Finnis (Victoria Sid-
dons) is an alluring young woman with a
pleasant and cultivated voice. As Nat
Siddons, showman, Tom Graves toils hard
to be bright. In fact he works overtime.
It is evidently Thomas’s ambition that the
audience shall not endure one dull moment
while he is on the stage. Pie would achieve
this aim more surely if he wore fewer face-
stripes, gagged less, and generally toned
down the exuberance of his humor. Miss
Maggie Knight, Alfred Deery, Miss Nell
Cozens and Miss Katherine Starling are all
good. The scenery, by Goatcher, is ex-
quisite.
** * *
“Jack and the Beanstalk” maintain the
even and profitable tenor of their growth at
Her Majesty’s, Sydney. This state of
things is likely to continue indefinitely.
“THE GAY GORDONS," AT SYDNEY
CRITERION.
Two military men: Red nose and wrinkles
(Tom Graves), small waist and high heels
(Florence Inieson).
“The Dollar Princess” was revived at Syd-
ney Theatre Royal on Saturday night. Miss
Olive Godwin, whom Sydney knew T formerly
as Olga Labinska, is Alice Conder in the
present production; and a charming and
melodious Alice she is. The lion-quelling
business is adequately conducted by Miss
Florence Young. Reginald Roberts sup-
plies a new Freddy Fairfax. Under Rob-
erts’s judicious treatment this character is
well-nigh intense enough to be addressed as
Frederick, and it is more tuneful than of
yore. Langford Kirby (Dick) is another
whom Sydney sees for the first time in a
TJ.S. environment. Bert Gilbert, Frank
Greene, W. S. Percy and the delightful Miss
Lottie Sargent all fill roles in which Sydney
has cheered them scores of times before.
Time has not laid its blighting hand on
either the chorus or the scenery, and all
round the new arrival should boom during
her stay here.
*# * *
The guardians of “The Bad Girl of the
Family” have decided to put a stop to her
stage career at the Sydney Adelphi, and on
Saturday night her place will be taken by
the most scented character in fiction —Bertie,
the Life-guardsman, in Ouida’s “Under Two
Flags.” Those addicted to the bad girl habit
are reminded that Cigarette will be with
Bertie in Algiers.
** * *
The Kavanagh Boys, who juggle with ten-
nis racquets, hoops and other things, are
responsible for the latest turn at Sydney
Tivoli. The Seven Perezoffs, whose chief
business also is juggling, are on the bill and
brilliantly defying the impartial law of
gravity—which, being impartial, was ob-
viously not passed by Gregory Wade, V.C.
If anyone has neglected to see the Perezoff
waiter with his hammer smash the crockery
concealed inside his fellow-waiter’s vest, the
omission should be rectified at once. As a
further inducement, it may be mentioned
that Peggy Pryde is billed to depart this
(Thursday) evening; so there is need for
haste. Cadwell and Verne, Black and
White, and Reichen’s Dogs remain, and are
mentioned in proud capitals by the advts.
** * *
The reappearance of the delightful tinted
Pathe films at West’s Pictures would seem
to indicate that there is peace once more
between the local association and the great
French firm. Whereat the leader of the
orchestra will rejoice ; for the classic Pathe
films give the man in charge of the music
a chance to spread himself, and unload se-
lections from the best composers. The star
item at West’s just now is “The Fall of
Troy,” produced by some Italian company
with a name no sober man could spell.
In some of the acts, according to the pro-
gramme, there are over 800 actors. But it
isn’t that which counts; it is the splendor of
the tinting, the magnificence of the fakes.
The lovemaking betwen Helen and. Paris in
the garden of the palace at Sparta is a won-
derful scene, wherein the moonlight effect is
exquisite. Finally, when the Greeks are en-
gaged in the destruction of the Trojans who
are making a last stand in Priam’s palace,
realism runs riot. Enthralled by the
ferocity of combat, neither Greek nor Trojan
realises that the palace is on fire, and the
gigantic pillars come crashing down amidst
the struggling soldiers, sending up clouds of
dust, smoke and sparks, and smashing war-
riors to pulp. It is a triumph of decep-
tion —the very apotheosis of Fake.
* * -* *
At the time of writing “The Fatal Wed-
ding” is in its last throes at Sydney Ly-
ceum, and just about the time this appears
in print, the Tin Gan Band will cease from
troubling, and the baby-band people will go
to bed at a proper hour. The Wedding has
been a howling success, just as it was in its
drama form, and the measure of that suc-
cess is a scathing commentary on the artis-
tic taste of Sydney public- —unless the Syd-
ney public applauded it merely as a photo-
graphic masterpiece. Besides the Wedding
Spencer has been showing some more of the
everlasting Wild West drama, and a tinted
representation of Riva and its lakes. Riva
is, apparently, a scrap of Elysium on the
film, anyhow. Possibly could we but fly to
it we should find it as insanitary as beauti-
ful. Also there is a lurid film of “The Fall
of Troy”—a most impressive picture, which
must have cost thousands to produce, and is
likely to hold the screen for a long time to
come.
** * *
One hundred thousand pounds’ worth of
motor-cars tumbled ten thousand pounds
worth of astonishing frocks and nine pecks
of diamonds, to say nothing of cotton under-
skirts, crush hats and face varnish, into Her
Majesty’s (Melbourne) on Saturday night;
and the one consuming purpose of the owners
of this unprecedented pressure of valuables
was to discover why “Our Miss Gibbs” had
so preyed upon the affections of the Ma
metropolis. Numerous, if not wholly satis-
factory reasons were found, apart from Ma s
belated skittishness and enormous pecuni-
osity. “Miss Gibbs” is not astonishingly
new in conception, nor exceedingly novel in
treatment. YVe have had shop girls simi-
larly situated, and girls behind the counter
in the same straits; but in all par-
ticulars the surroundings and circum-
stances of the latest saleslady go one and
a-half better than the appliances and ap-
purtenances of previous light-operatic hero-
ines of the stores. Splendor of setting ; a
gorgeous copiousness in the use of Girl
garbed to make Solomon look like a Quaker
by comparison ; the sedulous employment of a
large and efficient staff of comedians ; some
brisk, easy music; Nellie Wilson’s transport-
ing frocks; the Schilling hop —all these are
the features that serve to account in a large
measure for Sydney’s infatuation, and to
lead us to expect an almost equally pro-
longed seizure in Melbourne. And a few
effective details are still unspecified: the
neatness of Miss Blanche Browne, her gentle
art of making friends, and the gay, unforced
little way she’s got, especially when singing
songs like “Mary” and in “Yorkshire”; the
nice, mother’s-best-boy manners of Higgin-
son; and the easy, airy talent of Miss Alma
Barber. Among the numerous comedians,
Leslie Holland is most surprising, mainly be-
cause he isn’t so much like one Kirby who
first appeared here in “The Waltz Dream.’
Bertie YVright, as Gibbs, is very sugges-
tive of Bertie under any other name. He is
an exponent of a brand of humor that pro-
vokes laughter; but the day is approaching
when it will be done by machinery. Fred
Leslie’s Slithers is a tough of a type that
Leslie revels in, and his acrobatic dance with
the clinging Ivy is worth more to the opera
than any other item. Per contra, the pro-
cession of potentates in Act 2 should be
rudely deleted with a chopper. These dig-
nitaries are unknown and unappreciated in
Australia, and anyhow they look like a pack
of masquerading suburban mayors with


= s = pi
HIP «r
USE
smm
f p
11
pin
*i.»i
the
m
6
for Cash
Where
90 r '
Sac Suit
Costs^
Tailor&CostumeMaker
Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED,
PITT AND KING STREETS, SYDNEY.
FIRE ACCIDENT, EMPLOYERS’ LIABILITY, PLATE GLASS, Etc.
Lowest Rates Charged.
'Phone No. 23j Central.
Settlements Prompt and Equitable.
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman.
G. HOWARD POPE, Manager.
wives en suite, and are not worth while in
a show that runs on after the 11th hour.
* # * *
Seventeen years after its first presentation,
at the Avenue Theatre, London, G. B.
Shaw’s most popular pleasantness, “Arms
and the Man,” has been professionally ex-
pounded in a Melbourne house. In the last
20 years no playmaker has been as widely
and inquisitively read as G. 8.5., and on
Saturday night it was made plain by the
manner in which points were scored that the
gentle reader had turned up in force to see what
Katherine Grey and Company could do with
a comedy demanding a nice sense ot charac-
ter and the capacity to realise marked and
diverse personalities, without the caricatured
types or over-emphasis of manner and in-
cident wdiich even a Pinero permits himself.
Shaw tickles the fancy by playing a cool
common-sense off against the feverish exub-
erance of conventional romanticism. Sar-
anoff, the inflated warrior of song and story,
eternally “flashing his sabre bare,” dashes
his two-penny-colored sentimentalism up
against the bare rock of Bluntschli’s practi-
cal mind and hard, drab experience. The
contrasting personalities are deliberately du-
plicated. Nicola is Bluntschli’s mental and
temperamental twin, and Louka’s barbarian
appreciation of crude truth and directness is
set brazenly against Raina’s extravagant af-
fectations. The result is crisp, tingling,
well-sustained fun. The play stimulates,
and may induce a politician here and there
to discard a few attitudes and be almost
human.
* * * *
From the handling of “Arms and the
Man” at the Princess’s Shaw devotees will
derive some pleasure, though there is no call
for effusive gratitude. Nothing is indiffer-
ently done, yet no one quite realises . the
Shawian character. Cyril Mackay as
Saranoff certainly comes very near it.
Figuratively he is. just the thing, but he
makes the hero’s posings a little too self-con-
scious, just as now and then William Des-
mond weakens his otherwise excellent idea
of Bluntschli with a trace of slyness. The
smallest hint that the matter-of-fact Swiss
is pulling a leg is fatal to Shaw’s idea, as is
any suggestion of deliberate bamboozling in
Saranoff’s heroics. Leslie Victor is just
about right as Petkoff, but Winter Hall has
not caught the flavor of Nicola. Contrary
to expectation, Miss Katherine Grey adven-
tured forth in the short skirts of Louka, the
ambitious handmaiden. She provides an in-
teresting servant, with a calculating eye on
a better place as Mrs. Saranoff, but it is not
the bold Bulgarian Shaw has in mind ; and
Miss Florrie Gleeson, a clever little actress
in a. suitable situation, carries hardly enough
weight for Raina Petkoff. Mamma Petkoff
goes to Miss Susie Vaughan, who treats her
well. “Arms and the Man” is preceded by
Belasco’s woebegone playlet, “Madame But-
terfly,” an effort at the higher emotionalism.
Unless there is an unexpected run on Shaw,
“The Third Degree” will reappear on Satur-
day night, with a sudden apparition of “The
Lion and the Mouse” on vVednesday.
* * * *
To-morrow evening, at the Melbourne
Royal, “The Belle of Brittany” wil ~et her
valedictory cheers. On Saturday there ap-
pears “The Woman in the Case,” the highly-
wrought drama with the exciting sunner
scene, and the pink wig, and the fatuous hus-
band, and the iron-grey family solicitor who
works overtime and doesn’t once mention
Costs.
* * * *
Six nights a week Ben Hall and his bush-
rangers roam about the scenery of the King’s,
sticking up rich, poor and the fairly com-
fortable, and acquiring sacks of £ s. d. Yet,
with all that wealth accruing to the gang,
Ben alone preserves any appearance of pros-
perity. His girth, which pays such a com-
pliment to the power of grub, contrasts
strangely with the condition of his men. The
burliest of these poor wretches looks only
moderately fed ; while one seems so particu-
larly thin that he might serve as a trans-
parency. Perhaps, however, this is the deli-
cate way in which Anderson and the manu-
facturers of “The Squatter’s Daughter” in-
culcate their moral lesson —“Don’t bushrange
unless you can be the boss bushranger.”
* * * *
At the King’s next Tuesday, Melbourne
showmen will “benefit” the family of the late
Maud Perman; and this paper’s Religious
Editor bestows his best blessing on the en-
terprise.
* * # *
The Opera House forces are still led by
the protean R. A. Roberts. The quick-
changer is a great attraction: his ability to
lead two or three double lives makes him a
marvel to giddy papas who wear off their
hair in the tussle to successfully live one.
Other features at the Opera House are the
cornet solos of Eunice and Zena, and the
tuneful ballads of Godfrey James. The
Zanfrellas, equilibrists, are on the point of
departure to other parts—which is some-
thing new in favor of other parts.
* * *
Two attractive Oriental items were seen
at the Melbourne Glaciarium last Saturday
night. The first, entitled “The Dance of
Siva,” narrated a tale of Hindu passion
made more exciting by the deeds of a jealous
wife. The second, “A School in Fan Auri,”
described the quaint training of the Samurai.
This film shows how aristocratic Japs are
taken at a very tender age and instructed in
the use of the two-handed sword, and in a
vast mass of other learning, to qualify them
for the high art of saluting and kow-towing.
** * *
“Looking Forward,” at Melbourne Olym-
pia last Saturday, turned the world upside
down, and gave a view of the result. Wo-
men were shown controlling affairs, while
men had become the inferior sex. Every-
where males were depicted humble and fawn-
ins. and apologising for their impudence in
being alive, while the ladies were exhibited
strutting and spouting and ordering. Alto-
gether it is a capital film, though as
prophecy it is doubtful.
“ THE SQUATTER’S DAUGHTER ,” AT
MELBOURNE KING’S.
Edmund Duggan
as Ben Hall , the
Bushranger.
Roy Redgrave as
Tom Bathurst , the
Overseer.
“David Ballard,” Charles McEvoy’s three-
act play, has been given its Australian trial
trip by the Adelaide Literary Theatre. It
is an uncomfortable play about uncomfort-
able people—a sort of “Englishman’s Home”
with the military and patriotic element left
out. Even the “hero” is hardly made a sym-
pathetic character; but whether that is a
failure on McEvoy’s part in Art (the art of
the stage), or a triumph of Naturalism, is
a question with two sides. David is a mem-
ber of a miserable family: weak father,
fussy mother, bounder brother, nagging sis-
ter. Domestic “scenes” are incessant. He
wants to get out of it all, and Live his Life
as a writer. But he talks too much. He
loses all sympathy when he tries to borrow
a fiver to start on. In the second act he is
starving, and is told by a previously-comie
character, who suddenly takes control of the
play, that he can’t write, never could, and
never had any stock-in-trade but vanity. And
it seems to be true. At the end, he is back
again at the old office-work, and apparently
happy in it; also he writes a little in leisure
moments, and has made £lOO with a prize
poem on Someone’s Soar). A year elapses
every time the curtain is down, and in the
last act the author springs a neat surprise.
The nagging sister is engaged in Act 2. In
Act 3 the characters are seated in the same
old surroundings, but at a sudden yowl she
picks up an infant from a cradle and hurries
off with it; and “Shall I bring the other?”
somebody asks. A mostly feminine audience
roars at this triumph of domesticity. The
play is, in fact, full of fun. The acting was
in the usual competent hands: Gordon
Swann, Douglas Walsh, Miss Dorothea
Jacob, and so on. Adelaide is full of clever
amateurs, and a new recruit, Miss Ruby
Kurth, deserves a special word. She showed
that high form of acting which consists in
not appearing to act at all. There was an
unpleasant girl on the stage, and she was It.
* * -* *
At Adelaide the Scarlet Troubadours have
left the King’s, which is settling down for
the present as the much-needed home of
musical and choral events of all sorts —
needed because the Town Hall has been let
for the winter to the Wondergraph pictures,
and the Exhibition is not suitable for con-
certs. An American “illusionist,” with sev-
eral tons of apparatus, has come in to the
Exhibition, and at the Tivoli his countrymen
are prominent, in threes: the Potter-Hart-
w r ells, who are agile ; and the Columbias, who
are humorous and musical. West’s, the Em-
pire, and Wondergraph have settled down to
a keen rivalry, with films ranging from cur-
rent boat-races to familiar stage-plays. The
quality of the programmes is improving
steadily. Also, the Woods-Williamson Co.
is playing at Adelaide Royal; but The Bul-
letin’s Adelaide critic, being mysteriously
refused admission, “after reviewing your
comments upon our production during our
last season,” is content to believe the Regis-
tee (8/5/T1) that “the company fails to
make the story impressive. There is no
vim in the work, no striking effects of emo-
tional acting. It is cold, with a wealth of
opportunity for fine warmth.... One would
like to see ‘ln the Palace of the King’ in bet-
ter hands.” The present writer never said any-
thing as bad as that ; so presumably there
is by now yet another gap in the rank of
critics
THE DOWNFALL OF WILLIE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Bishop said they had lately read a very sweep-
ing indictment of the effect of picture-shows on
young people. That probably was merely one phase
of the lamentable lack of oversight by parents over
their children. He (the Bishop) had been invited
by a stipendiary magistrate to attend the Children’s
Court. He said that it would be a terrible revelation
of the extent to which youthful crime was increasing.
—S. M. HIiKALD.
“In Horsetralia,” said the Boozer,
“Where the climate’s bright and painful
And the people’s often thirsty”—
Here he eyed the Bishop sagely—
“ln Horsetralia things is bosker.
Trade and pollytics and football.
Racin’, tucker, dress and schoolin’—-
Everything except the children”...
“Gracious me!” exclaimed the Bishop—
“ Goodness gracious! You don’t say so!”
“In Horsetralia,” said the Boozer,
“Things is always well conducted;
All the papers is religious,
All the pollytics is upright,
All the merchants most pertickler,
All the sportsmen straight and truthful,
All the church-blokes truly Christian,
All the women ’ighly virtuous.
Only them carousin’ children”—
Here he sighed right on the Bishop—
“ Only them perwerted children,
They are positive appalling!”...
“Goodness me!” remarked the Bishop.
“Gracious goodness! Oh, how painful!”
Thoughtfully the Boozer spoke then:
“Mister, did you ’ear the story—
Ah, it breaks me ’eart to tell it!
But, as Tennyson has put it,
What am I ? A hinfant cryin’
For a drink, there’s no denyin’ ?”
Once again he eyed the Bishop,
But that worthy man was praying,
Or it seemed so, with his eyes shut.
“Would you like to know the story
All about the fall of Willie?”
“Goodness, yes!” replied the cleric,
Eyes wide open—“l should say so ! ”
“In Horsetralia,” said the Boozer,
“Willie was reared up most fortnit;
Lots of tucker, moral suasion.
Taught to holler ‘Rule Brittanyer’;
Showed how wrong it was to wag it
From the good, kind-hearted mistress,
And the simple, happy school-life
Where they fold up colored papers
All day long, and pickle tadpoles,
And recite from Missus Ilemans”...
“Goodness me!” exclaimed the Bishop,
“Really? I should not have thought it!”
“Willie was just risin’ seven,
Such a playful little feller!
We’d a dog got fond of Willie,
Till that cherub stuck his ears through
With the carvin’-fork —in play, like!
Howsomever, his high spirits
Never did much harm to no one—
’Cept he once took his pa’s whisky,
Poured it out, and —sold the bottles —-
Fourteen of ’em —that was awful!”...
“Tut, tut, tut!” exclaimed the Bishop;
“That implies a wasteful spirit!”
With his hand the sad narrator
Wiped away suspicious moisture
From his eyes fixed on the Bishop.
“Ah, sir, that was next to nothing
To what’s cornin’! That bright cherub
On his joyous seventh birthday
Was, by his short-sighted parents,
Took along to see the pictures—
Them immoral, movin’ pictures,
What has caused the gravest strictures.”
“Oh!” exclaimed the shuddering Bishop,
Cease I beg, this tale of horror !...
“Nay.. .continue.. .1 will bear it!”
Eyes aglow with admiration
At the worthy cleric’s courage,
Or else honest expectation,
That good Boozer thus proceeded:
“From that fatal, natal evening
We all dated Willie’s downfall;
Every week he’d smooge for pennies
To his fond, devoted mummer;,
Or explore the left-off trousers,
Coats and waistcoats of his father
For the wherewithal in copper
To indulge his vicious craving.
Often from his anxious teacher
He was distant; when the classes
Were rehearsing Empire Day songs
Willie was abstracting bottles
From adjacent yards and gardens
For the entrance fee to pictures!”
“Horrible!” the Bishop muttered,
Stricken to his very gaiters!
“Little more remains to tell, sir.
Hear the dreadful culmination!
One day Willie told his teacher
That he’d had enough of lessons—
He was going for a pirate!
He would not salute the Flag, sir”—
Here the Bishop moaned in anguish—
“ But upon this one condition:
It must be the Jolly Roger!
The terrific Skull and Crossbones!
And he would not sing ‘Gorsave,’ sir,
He had learned the pirates’ song, sir,
11 is called Lilliburlero” ....
But the Bishop lay unconscious,
And the Boozer searched the Scriptures!
N.S.W.
O. C. CABOT.
AT POVERTY POINT.
Box Officer” : "Our Miss Gibbs” having achieved
the longest Australian run, and the longest in the
English dominions anywhere outside London, we may
glance at runs in general. The world’s record is
held by ‘Our Boys,” 1200 nights, at the tiny Lon-
don Vaudeville. At the same house “The School for
Scandal” ran 400 nights. Yet that was nothing like
so wonderful as Irving’s “Hamlet,” which held the
Lyceum for 200 nights. In “The Bells” he ran
150, “Charles L” 120, and “Richelieu” 80. The
longest run up to 1861 was “The Colleen Bawn,”
400. Not long afterwards Sothern’s” “Dundreary”
ran 400. “Dundreary,” by the way, failed at first,
and after less than a week Manager Buekstone stuck
up in the greenroom, “Saturday night, ‘She Stoops
to Conquer.’ ” On Mathews’s advice he took that
down and persevered with the other. Afterwards he
and Sothern made £30,000 each out of “Our Ameri-
can Cousin.” Elliston made as much from “Black-
eyed Susan,” but the author, Jerrold, only got £3O.
And “Our Boys” is said to have only yielded Byron
£7O. Hawtrey’s gains over “The Private Secretary”
are set down at £BO,OOO, with scarcely any author’s
fees, for the thing was a translation from the Ger-
man. Yet Hawtrey afterwards went insolvent. “The
Mikado” is said to have yielded £lOO,OOO each to
Gilbert and Sullivan, with a 600 nights’ run. Never-
theless, Gilbert was reduced to taking a London
magistracy, worth only about £1000: a year. “Pin-
afore,” “Cloches de Corneville,” and “The Chi-
nese Honeymoon” ran each over 500 nights. Half a
dozen of the Gilbert and Sullivan pieces did a year
each. “Tambour Major” long topped the Melbourne
J 1 ®*- with I?® nights. Equally remarkable was
uncle Tom s Cabin,” about the same time, at the
Melb. (old) Princess’s, 80 nights.
Tom Pollard, of one-time juvenile opera notoriety,
celebrated his fifty-third birthday at Greymouth
(M.L.) a few days ago. The combined townspeople
handed him a valuable congratulation.
Grattan (“Teddy”) Coughlan, the comedian, died
at 42 in Adelaide last week. He had for a long time
been under treatment in Melbourne for rheumatic
gout, but pulled himself out, and was playing an
Adelaide season at the Royal. He got through his
part as a jester in “The Palace of the King,” on
Tuesday evening, but was found dead in bed the next
morning. Mrs. Coughlan is in Sydney.
Coughlan, the comedian who died the other day,
candidly admitted he was “the plainest actor
on the Australian stage.” Said he lately: “I was
shown the photograph of an American actor, who
claimed to have the homeliest face on earth. I sent
him my picture. Then he wrote back: ‘Mr. Coughlan,
don’t hit. I give up without a struggle. But my
face is my own; surely yours has been tampered
with ?’ ” •
Maggie Papakura’s party of Maoris struck its first
piece of misfortune en route to London, between
Fremantle and Colombo, when one of the pick of the
men, Aparo Terawhio, a tenor singer, died suddenly
form cerebral hemorrhage. He was a son of Sophia,
the Rotorua guide, who played such a prominent
part when Mount Tarawera broke loose in 1886.
Alfred Ingleson, an old-time scenic artist, died at
Wellington (M.L.) a few days ago, aged 63. Twenty-
odd years back his brush was well known on the cloths
of many of the big touring cos., but in later years
he did very little paint work, except for amateurs
and the smaller theatres.
“Hoddle”: The curtain threatens to finally ring
down on the old Cremorne, at Richmond, alongside
the Yarra. A jam factory is about to be erected on
all but a scrap of the last remaining portion of the
grounds where, over 50 years ago, the first balloon
ascent in Australia took place. The pioneer, “Mont-
golfier,” floated inland for eight miles before
coming to earth. Scraps of the old, high, thick
walls which kept Harcourt’s “private” lunatics
within bounds (this was after Cremorne failed as a
“draw”) may still be traced here and there; and
crowds of gamins play around where sedate gentle-
men, in tall hats, with their “ladies” on their arms,
in broadest of crinolines, used to stand and utter
long-drawn cries of “Ah-a-a-aah,” as Coppin’s
rockets lightened the evening heavens.
John Fuller, jun., finding time dragging on his
hands with only a dozen or so shows to control in
Maoriland, has entered municipal politics in Welling-
ton. At the recent elections he won a seat on the
City Council, where he proposes to pull the Anti-
quated Idea by the moss of its head.
“Screen”: Well done! The J. D. Williams people
have abandoned the ridiculous name of “Colonial”
for the new picture theatre in Bourke-street,
Melbourne. It now bears in bold gilded
letters “Melba Theatre.” Meanwhile, in an
application to de-license the Queensland Hotel,
in Bourke-street, it was mentioned per contra that
the J. C. Williamson people were about to build a
comedy theatre and concert hall in Russell-street,
near the Queensland Hotel. This establishment, like
Taits’ Auditorium, Collins-street, will not be for any
specialty. The Auditorium is not started yet. First
the Presbyterian Assembly Hall, formerly St.
Enoch’s, has to come down, and it still lifts its in-
effectual spire. Nor have Brennan and Co. com-
menced their Bourke-street amphitheatre. Mean-
while, Sun-Spot Wragge is again prophetic—
Pharaoh’s seven lean kine are at hand following the
seven fat ones. Still, so far, it’s “On with the
dance, let joy be unconfined! ” Bourke-street on
Saturday night is full of men and women with
agonised visages, because they can’t find room any-
where to spend their money.
“Hamer”: The scenic artist does not always get
his full reward from theatrical managers, but he
usually gets it from a pleased public. Leader Wil-
liams, a scenic painter who did a lot of work in
M.L., turned out some splendid pictures, but lacked
the push necessary to secure recognition. Moreover,
he asked little but the opportunity to spread himself
over canvas in elaborated scenes. Allied to a com-
pany which boasted a conceited leading man, he
amazed Auckland with some of his scenery. At the
close of a big scene the audience rose and howled its
approval, and the conceited leading man rushed be-
fore the curtain, and bowed. When he retired the
audience howled some more. “By God! it’s going
great—it’s going great!” said the leading man, and
he went and bowed some more. Twice again the
leading man went before the curtain to bow his
acknowledgments, but the audience remained un-
appeased; and finally a voice from the gallery
yelled, “Get off, you d —-n fool; we want the artist!”
“Ancient Pistol”: What was the matter with
George Rignold’s “Henry V.” that “A Von” makes
no mention of it in his reminiscent par. (8.4/5/’ll)?
Henry V. was assuredly Rignold’s star personation.
I speak of his playing the part 27 years ago and
more, what time he brought the Yankees to his royal
feet. I am puzzled to know why this rousing,
supremely-actable Shakspearian play is not again re-
vived. The present generation of playgoers has had
no chance to hear “Once more unto the breach, dear
friends!” delivered amid its stage-setting, often as
it has heard the speech mouthed and murthered by
the amateur Thespian. Will Oscar Asche please put
it on his list?
A syndicate has just about settled preliminaries
for a Nat Gould lecture tour. Nat will begin his
turf talks in Sydney about September next, and will
be in Melbourne at Cup time. And, of course, there
will be pictures.
“Brither Scot”: Might not “Rob Roy” be revived?
Observe how an Australian audience is exhilarated
by any bit of Scotch music. It is the same in
America, as witness Harry Lauder. I heard a tune
which set the people agog the other night. Hullo,
what’s this? The music when the redcoats ad-
vance to the capture of Rob Roy, in the Clachan of
Aberfoyle. In Melbourne “Rob Roy” has not been
professionally acted since 1891 or so. Bentley was
a downright Avator as Rob. Cathcart was “Ma
Conscience!” There have been two amateur repro-
ductions since. Of course the great performance
was in Bendigo about half a century ago. John
Mclntyre, the politician, was the Baillie; Rob Roy
was played by Angus Mackay, afterwards M.L.A.
and Minister, and founder of the Sydney Daily
Telegraph. No Helen Macgregor seen in Melbourne
has approached Eloise Juno’s. The grand clap-
trap line, “My foot’s upon my native heath,” etc.,
is hers, and not Rob’s. The first performance m
Edinburgh was about the mightiest premiere on'
record. Scott was in. a stage box. And there was a
furore again in Glasgow, where the earlier scenes of
the play are located.
“Stargazer”: “Bass Viol” put it to me like
this: —“All the heroes in a theatre are in the
orchestra, I tell you. The tripe actor may scale
the scenic giddy heights, fling himself into the nine-
inch abyss, pound recklessly into the damp water-
tank, or dash with desperate daring into the paper
conflagration ; but if there is any real danger going
or coming, it’s up against the disregarded and in-
consequential cuss scraping the fiddle. Who gets
it in the neck when the vaudeville tumbler fails
to take hold of his proper supports? Why, the
first violin. When the trick cyclist precipitates
himself off the stage, or the juggler’s cannon-ball
misses the spot, it’s a humble musician who’s dragged
under the stage with a rake, and sent off to hospital
in a carrier’s van, C.O.D. When the hysterical
horse in the melodrama oversteps the bounds of rea-
son, he treads on the cornet, or sits plump on the
balloon of the Dutch hero exercising the slide bugle.
When the second villain hurls a black bottle, or a
brick, or the gaol ornaments at the hero, 10 to 1
he hits the orchestra in a tender place. While I’ve
been fiddling round Australia, 15 musicians have
been ‘removed hurt,’ as the result of misapplied
motor-cars, deransred horses, runawar tricycles, and
other hard fragments of the drama hitting them
up; but the only thing that ever hurts the blather-
skite actor, who gets all the glory, is beer.”
Motor Street Cleaners.
The Renault Co. of Paris appear to be always
ading the world in automobile matters, and
heir latest achievement is the supplying to the
city of Paris a number of motor-driven street
sweepers. The experiment is a distinct success,
and our city council would do well to enquire into
such an invention.*
Bovril has been awarded the Diplome d’Honneur
(the highest award) at the International Cookerv
Exhibition, Paris.*


ghjhjhjkjhk
MENS “ORIENT” CLOTHING.
SPLENDID SAC SUIT
at David Jones, Ltd.
501-
THERE is style and quality in every garment bearing the name
of “Orient”—and these Sac Suits at 50/-, as illustrated, are
no exception. Cut and tailored by Experts, perfect in fit, made
from excellent materials, they are absolutely the best Suit Values pro-
curable for the price. They are made of superior West of England
Tweeds in Mid Grey and White Diagonal Mixtures, Dark and Green
Stripes, Mid Grey Herringbone Mixture with Dark Green Mixed
Stripes, Dark Green Mixture with Mole, Brown and Purple Stripes,
fine Botany Twill Navy Serge. Pure Indigo Dye.
All Sizes —3 to 10%
501
WE PAY CARRIAGE on all Goods except Furniture, Floor
Covering, Kitchen and Hardware to any part of the Commonwealth.
Only on Toys when ordered with other goods.
DAVID JONES LTD.,
Opposite G.P.0., SYDNEY.
SOCIETY
SHE HAD TO BE CAREFUL.
MISTRESS (to new hired help): “You can
leave your work for a time and take baby
for an airing."
H. H.: “It's more than I could do, mum. You
see my young man's that awful perticular."
About the most disgusted alien in Aus-
tralia on May 5 was a Malay seaman, who, at
Circular Quay, Sydney, was accosted by a Water
policeman on general principles, and searched for
opium oh suspicion. Nothing contraband being
found upon him, he was given a formal send-off
by the,Law, and slid for obscurity at once. Just
then J. Hop heard a noise under his feet (which
gives some idea of the size of the noise), and on
looking down was surprised, though much grati-
fied, to see a black hand thrust through a hole in
the planking and in the hand a tin of opium. The
officer took the tin, bowed, and waited for another.
It came, and 40 others to keep it company. Then
he reckoned it was time to do something in return
for the £l5O worth of poppy, and' when the hand
came up again he sought to give it a friendly
grasp. But the opium smuggler is a shy bird, and
this one snatched clear and dived. And, so far as
the Law knows, he hasn’t come up from the innards
of that ship yet.
“ Box 110 ” : Re the Queensland medicine
man’s objection to kissing the germ-loaded
Word which lingers in the Australian courts
as a relict of the dark ages, alongside horsehair
and cumbersome old-world procedure (B. 13/4/T1).
Maoriland has gone so far along the road to
reform that the kissing part of the lunacy has
been abolished by a recent Act. When a witness
is now sworn in M.L. courts he stands on his
feet, takes the Word in his right hand, and
repeats the oath, ending with the words “I will.”
This is certainly a step towards biffing the
disease-carrier into outer darkness, for you only
get the 72,067,973 microbes on your thumb
instead of on your lips. To complete the reform,
the whole box of ancient, superstitious tricks
should be hurled on to the dust-heap, and the law
amended so that every witness is automatically
on his oath as soon as he enters a court. Added
to this, a definite system of sudden, relentless
and lengthy jug is required to combat the increas-
ing habit of deliberate perjury.
The tale of Melbourne’s latest tragedy :
Luigi Ricci, when aged 30 years, married Dominica, a
Tuscan girl of 22. He brought her to Australia. “ Thou
also, Carlino,” he said to his 24-year-old man-cousin,
Carlo Antoinetti; and the three came to Australia, to live
in Lansdowne-place, off Queensberry-street. That was
two years ago. In these two years Carlo fell madly in
love with Dominica, and from persuasions turned to
threats. Carlo swore to Luigi that he would not live
without Dominica. Luigi laughed, and called him
“Carlino mio.” Dominica and Carlo were young; Luigi
was—what? 32 years ! Neighbors winked and nudged ;
nevertheless, Dominica was faithful, and Luigi laughed
more lightly than ever. One week Carlo shot at Dominica
in bed, and the bullet wounded her pillow. She took the
pistol from him and gave it to Luigi. The neighbors
—Marie, Antonio and Isidor —told him to fetch
the police ; he laughed again. The police—for
Carlino! No! Carlo pleaded his suit more pas-
sionately than ever, and Dominica wept with distrac-
tion and grief. On the night of May 9, Carlo came home
at half-past two, and sat on the bed wherein Dominica
was nestling to Luigi’s side. “ I cannot live without
Dominica,” he said. “ I shall take her with me to Italy.”
Luigi held Dominica’s frightened hand in his. “Foolish
boy, Carlo,” he said, gravely. Next morning Luigi went to
work. Carlo found Dominica in the kitchen, and since
she would not come to Italy with him, he shot her in the
head, and she died. Then he walked upstairs, and shot
himself in the head, and he died. Luigi came from
work, and, falling beside Dominica’s body, kissed her face
and hands until they dragged him away. Now he lives
alone with Dominica’s baby.
Estelle, the mulatto wife of the Syrian, told me much
of the tale with tears rolling down her cheeks. Giuseppe,
who in the daytime drives a plane, and at night fiddles
Mascagni very tenderly, would say nothing but “ Pover-
ino Carlo! Poverina Dominica!” The Englishwoman
said : “ I thort ’e’d do for ’er one day or another.” When
I talked of the affair to the Greek fish-seller, who is called
Tommy, though his true name is Dionysius, he shrugged
his shoulders. “He was darn-a fool-a! ” said Tommy.
“ But”—it was Dionysius who added this —“what-a else?
He was in love.”
* * # *
The progressive land-tax is making a com-
motion in the Sydney Harbor-side suburb of
Neutral Bay. Away back near the
beginning of things, large slices of
land thereabouts fell into the
hands of the Coopers and others,
who, scenting great increments,
resolved never to sell the free-
hold, but to perpetually exact
rent from those who came to dwell
in those parts. Being thrifty,
however, they declined to put
up any houses themselves, but
mostly let the land on long build-
ing leases, when it was let at all.
Thus, while neighboring suburbs
have boomed, Neutral Bay has
stagnated. Then came the progres-
sive tax —and now come the auction
sales. One block of the Cooper
estate was sold as freehold on a re-
cent Saturday. It was a part of the
original Thrupp grant. Thruppsold
to Daniel Cooper the first (uncle of
Daniel, the first baronet), who died
in England in 1853. The property
passed to his nephew, John Cooper,
who one recent day woke up to the
horrible fact that, though some future
Cooper might coin money out of the estate, just
at present the taxes amounted to £BOO a year
more than the lease rents. Thereupon John de-
cided to let the future Coopers take their chance,
and called in the auctioneer.
* * * *
The inauguration of penny postage through-
out Australia on May 1 recalls that it is little
more than 70 years since the first letter wgs
posted from Sydney to Melbourne. The
latter’s G.P.O. was then a little private hut in a
lane off Flinders-street, kept by one Bagster. He
was succeeded in March, 1839 by Skene Craig,
who was followed in Sept., 1839, by the first official
P.M., one Kelsh, who had been specially sent from
Sydney. The letter rate in those days to the Ma
colony’s capital was 15d. by land, or 3d. by ship.
The overland trip took three weeks ; the sea trip
took just as long as the weather decided.
Until the other day nobody but a Fatman
ever called anybody else a “ rabid Laborite.” It
was a term of the utmost reproach. Now, how-
ever, even Percy doesn't mind calling himself by
this bitter name. For instance (Argus, 5/5/’ll): —
Wool firms work their clerks in the season from 8 to 11
at night, every Saturday afternoon and sometimes on
Sundays, and give them—nothing. Is it any wonder that
the majority of clerks are rabid Laborites, and vote
accordingly?
Percy has evidently begun to realise that it is
more profitable to be a rabid Laborite than a
rabbit anti-Laborite.
A PARADOX.
“My poor man, you're very wet."
“I'm not half so wet as I am dry, lydy.”
The marble Venus on North Terrace,
Adelaide, has had notice to quit and make room
for the King Edward Memorial. Nobody seems
to know what is to become of Venus ; but as the
Ministry contains two choice Wowsers—the Pre-
mier and another—she and Hercules will probably
be thrown into a cellar together to do their worst.
The removal of Venus will rob Adelaide of the
thing that reminds itpf one of its most cherished
stories. Some country visitors, searching for the
Glenelg Railway Station (near Victoria Square,
but‘so unlike a station that, to find it, a stranger
must listen till he hears a sound like a locomotive
selling King William-street by auction, and then
make a bee-line for the Noise), came upon Mile.
Venus in all her simplicity of attire. “We ain’t
fur off,” said Pumpkins; “ ’ere’s Queen Vic-
torier’s statcher.”
* * * *
“J.D.”: Some old-time postage rates,
taken from “Melville’s Van Diemen’s Land
Annual for 1836.” From Hobart to Antill Ponds,
59 miles, fid. ;to Brighton, 15 miles, 4d.; Both-
well, 43 miles, 5d.;
Evandale, 79 miles,
9d. ; Fingal, 112
miles, 9d. : Laun-
ceston, 121 miles,
9d. ; George Town,
152 miles, lid.;
Oatlands, 50 miles,
fid.; Brown’sßiver,
7 miles, 3d. ; Kan-
garoo Point (Belle-
rive now, made
more famous in
these latter days
by one of the
Bulletin’s most
lustrous poets),
three miles, 3d.
There are 29 post
offices listed alto-
gether, and the
rates appear to
have been fixed
approximately at
3d. for any dis-
tance up to 15
miles, with a penny
added for every
further 20 miles or
thereabouts. That
made it impossible
for Marmadulte at
Hobart to breathe his love to Angelina at George
Town (152 miles) for less than lid. The Postmaste-
r is named by Melville as John Thomas
Collicott, Esq., J.P.; the Accountant and Chief
Clerk was Mr. Stephen Tunbridge Hardinge.
Melbourne is going to have another
“ biggest in the world ” —this time the reinforced
concrete dome of the new reading room at the
public library, now nearly finished. Its top is
145 ft. from the ground, and the width of the ribs
from angle to angle is 129 ft. Certainly there are
one or two domed humpies which sport larger
figures, but they are not of reinforced concrete ;
the biggest of all sorts in the world is 142 ft. wide,
and forms part of the Vatican. (If the Watch-
man gets to know of this, it will probably open a
shilling fund to buy enough dynamite to blow the
lid off the Scarlet Woman’s residence.) Hitherto
Melbourne’s most conspicuous top-piece bas been
the one worn by the Exhibition Building ; but
that is quite a small pimple, a mere 58ft. across.
Join the Army
Of those who have tested the wonderful remedial
virtues of Dr. Sheldon’s Magnetic Liniment.
It gives speedy relief whenever applied to
a burn, blister, bruise, or a pain or sore of any
nature. Prices Is. fid. and 3s. *
During the Referendum fight some of
Fat’s hired wire-pullers and jackals presented
Sydney with a gun which kicks horribly. For
years past, on special occasions, it has been the
practice to hold mid-day meetings in Moore-street
and Martin-place—wide thoroughfares in the
heart of the city, where the crowds
don’t block either tram or vehicle
traffic. There Bruce Smith has
been in the habit of orating
once a year on the glories of
Hempiah ; and there, too,
once a year the social bigwigs
who manage the Hospital
Saturday brigandage prop
up a band and make a
demonstration. But, though
Bruce Smith had been suf-
fered to spin in peace, no
sooner did the Yes crowd
attempt to do what Smith
had done repeatedly, than
the Law was armed with a
city regulation and sooled
on to Gardiner, Meagher,
Black, Fitzgerald and other
speakers. Of course they
were fined—to the great joy
of the Right Thinker. But,
alas, when, a fortnight later,
the Right Thinker pro-
ceeded to block the road
with his Hospital Saturday
show, the Law tapped him
on the shoulder. Then
there was an explosion, in
the midst of which the Law
was heard to explain that it
couldn’t be quite as blind
as that even to oblige.
Lawnorder. So, presum-
ably, Bruce Smith will for
the future have to talk
about Empiah in some less
conspicuous place; and
when the Stock Exchange
or the Chamber of Com-
merce wants to maffick, it
will have to crawl into its
own cellar, and do it there.
“Should the Church amuse?” asks the
Argus. Well, perhaps it shouldn’t; but, unfor-
tunately for its influence, it often does.
* * * *
“F.C.”: I was dreamily perusing the
paper the other morning and thinking of other
things, when I came across this : ‘‘A well-known
investor said that he was loth to re-open the sub-
ject, but the offence of milk-adulteration was an
old sore, which it was difficult to detect. It was
practised persistently, and fines seemed to have
no effect; when therefore the Appeal Judge
characterised the magistrates’ sentence of 12
months as ‘ cruel,’ and reduced it to a fine of £lO,
he felt constrained to remark that the offence was
in reality being encouraged. Such serious crime
could only be abolished by the awarding of long
terms of imprisonment. He was going to bring
the matter before the Chamber of Mines ” —-—at
the word “Mines” I awoke from my reverie,
and then saw that the well-known investor wasn’t
alluding to milk-adulteration at all, but to gold-
stealing. True, I might have known that all
along. When Commerce, represented by even so
humble an instrument as a milk-merchant, robs
you, a fine quite meets the case; but when a
workman robs you, and isn’t sentenced to 12
months’ gaol, the offence is “in reality being
encouraged.”
THE ECONOMIST.
1ST LADY BACHELOR: “So Gertie is engaged
to be married .”
2ND DITTO: “Yes, she always was mean. She
thinks with the new styles it will be more
economical—they'll be able to buy—er—
things in quantities .”
“Kaylee ” : Apropos “ pinky,” the cheap,
new wine which has givenS. Australia a thousand
headaches, and (along with methylated spirits)
has just been cursed vigorously by the Yankee
drink-specialist, Dr. Soper. The name started
this way. Charley Chandler, a well-known
sporting journalist, was gaoled for libel. He was
a first-class “patient,” had tons of friends, and
his cell was liberally supplied with refreshment.
He was usually mixing himself a coffee-royal
when an aboriginal prisoner came in to sweep his
cell in the morning. The newspaper man would
mostly ask the native to drown his sorrows,
whereupon black brother would emphatically
choose to drink from a bottle of red wine, re-
marking “ Givum pinky.” The methylated-
spirit drinker, by the way, invariably refers to
his (or her) dreadful beverage as “a drop of the
grocer.”
CONSTIPATION.
The most persistent and troublesome human
ailment known, and the fore-runner of many
other diseases, is now most effectively cured with
Chamberlain’s Tablets, and then most of the other
ailments vanish because Nature has a free chance
to work. Chamberlain’s Tablets are a simple and
reliable remedy and one that contains no harsh,
injurious drug.*
BETWEEN SNEEZES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Forecast: Rain, more particularly southern part
where heavy falls are likely; strong south winds and
cold generally.— Daily payer.
This is m3' last pneumonic “ D n !”
This is my final sneezing curse ;
Cold as a frozen fish I am ;
Bottles of chemist’s muck I nurse ;
Cold is rapidly getting worse ;
Draughts come swooping, and back doors slam ;
Whistle me up the nearest hearse ;
Up the chimney some paper cram.
The Evening Skull the blast will dam ;
With some verses I’ll d n the pair ;
I have suffered like any lamb ;
Let me think of a sizzling swear—
Something vicious to rend the air
And cause below an eager jam,
As startled fiends by furnace-glare
Break and rush from my 12-inch “ D n ! ”
Out on the dripping rocks the clam
Clings and revels in winter seas ;
Nobody comes I)3' boat or tram ;
Uncooked and gay he takes his ease ;
I think of him and wildl3' sneeze,
Swallow an ineffective dram,
Clutch at my' frozen, aching knees,
And breathe a faint and husky “ D n ! ”
Volleys of rain sweep down the street;
Howleth the wind for my poor bones ;
I have lost interest in my' feet
(Deader are they than paving stones).
Spectres of ice with little moans
Ruffle my' hair with hands of sleet.
Who sings in joyous tones
The end of Summer and its heat!
N.S.W.
THE RELIGIOUS EDITOR.
THE GOLD BROWN GIRL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
She’s browner than the English maids,
This gold-brown girl of New South Wales ;
Brown-skinned, with eyes more golden brown
Than sundown through brown fisher-sails.
She beats the girls from London town ;
She’s fierce and fine—no prutting dove ;
She beats ’em black, she beats ’em brown,
This gold-brown maid, in hate and love.
N.S.W.
HUGH McCRAE.


Rich Women need Sunlight Soap.
Poor Women need Sunlight Soap.
All Women need Sunlight Soap.
IT DOES WHAT IT PROMISES.
What’s -
put
in |
the
Soap
comes
out
in
the
clothes.
No. 57.
Guaranteed under
the " Pure Food Act, 1908,'
by Lever Brothers Limited
Sydney, N.S.W.
No. 57.
( -Yt
ghjhjhjkjhk
PEAPES’ OVERCOATS
Please Those Most Particular!
OVERCOATS too Ions: have been looked upon as affording protec-
tion from wet and cold as their sole purpose.
Undoubtedly it is their primary purpose, but one should
as well demaud from an Overcoat that it have style and distinctive-
ness since when worn it hides all one’s other clothiner from view.
The materials are specially manufactured for us, and treated to a
process that makes them rainproof without injuring the texture of
the fabric. When it reaches us it is handled by skilled cutters and
craftsmen, and given that fairly full skirt that is a feature of present
season’s modes.
The one depicted here is made in Grey and Herringbone Scotch
Tweeds and Fawn-colored Checks —also Dark Brown Tweeds with
Green Stripes.
32/6 Posted 1/3 extra.
PEAPES & CO. LTD.,
“ Men’s
Outfitters,”
309-311 George Street, SYDNEY.
The S. Aus. Supreme Court has been con-
sidering the odd case of a man who, having had
his vehicle bumped by an electric tram-car,
refused to get off the line until the motorman
gave his name, and thus hung up traffic for six
minutes. The magistrates had dismissed the
case, but the Tramways Trust easily got the
decision overruled, with £2 fine, and £7 more for
the privilege of having helped to settle a doubtful
point. Incidentally, the English case of one
Hardy was cited. Wanting to catch a non-stop
train, he stood on the line in front of it till it did
stop. He got «x months !
* * * ■*
According to London Evening. News, the
Chapzander Evangelists arrived in England from
the U.S. last month and “made straight for
Swansea, where they propose to start a six weeks’
mission prior to making yet another attempt on the
spiritual salvation of Australia.” It is significant
that the Chapzander people nowadays only attempt
to “save” those places which have been “saved ’
several times before. Swansea is one of the most
excitable towns of the most hysterical portion
of Britain. To the working Evangelist it is what
“ East Lynne” is to the wilting theatrical com-
bination —a sure cinch Ten years ago it went
fanti over the religious ravings of a small boy of
11, and it has repeatedly gone fanti since.
On the other hand, there are some British towns
which no Evangelist ever attempts to snatch from
the burning. For example, Oxford, Cambridge,
Aberdeen and Margate in August. Yet the
average undergraduate is badly in need of reli-
gious treatment; so is the typical native of Aber-
deen ; likewise the dissolute Cockney who
proceeds annually, in a beer-laden state, to the
seaside for his summer holiday, The explanation
no doubt is that there is neither glory nor money
to be made by a scrap with Satan in those parts.
When the Chapzander people were last here they
alienated backsliders from Satan in hordes, many
of them being converts who had been “saved”
frequently before, and in whom hysterical holiness
has become a craze. As a net result Australia
has acquired the reputation of being a good mark
for the “revivalist,” and has got itself into much
the same position as the .IT.S. householder who,
as a result of listening sympathetically to
the tale of some work-hating hoboe, has his
gate scored with a mystic sign which brings every
tramp in the neighborhood to his front door.
From which it may be concluded that either our
educational system or a section of the national
intellect is all wrong.
IT ALWAYS WORK’S.
ARTHUR: “I don't know that she cares for me. How can a man induce a woman to
show her hand? ”
EDGAR: “ Give her a diamond ring , dear boy."
The census figures supply some mathe-
matical reasons for the house-famine in Sydney.
Owing to the erection of business places within
the city area, 7029 people have been driven out of
Sydney. The increase of population in the
suburbs (not including Parramatta, Liverpool and
Gosford, where a number of Sydney people have
spread themselves) has been 119,494; and that
would mean, taking an average of five people to
each dwelling place, that 23,897 new dwelling
places should have been built in 10 years to meet
the demand—23B9 a year. No wonder that in the
bloat of Sydney the Wail of the tenant is heard !
James Edmond after call . in S °“ ‘
ha ; e fc ba^ e a of oo p ‘ a rt Viewed from the’water, is
V j fascination . ItB big hotels and its one good
gtree j. and all its twopenn’orth of magnificence are there
f or the whole world to see. Behind that strip of beauty
; s j us t plain Egypt. As you go further back the attrac-
tions diminish. The streets G ' l /!/ S ' a ' l l' somesix
lumpy, dusty and neglected, by-vvays
feet e g - r wag h buil(iing the great canal still
lino . erB . ou can j ook a t its ear and find the
brand ’ o f t be year x 859 or so quite plain to this
day _ Here the people dwell with their doors open, and
Egyptian domestic economy is more or less exposed to
vi ew And here Baby Egypt-the small, brown, n , un-
shod, unwashed and almost undressed daughter of Afiica
_ nie ’ s a kifce made of a thread with a bit of yrocer’s sugar
bag-at the end. And Cleopatra, in decay and disrepair,
hails you at intervals, while the pig Mark Antony wallows
in the general confusion.
Port Said is the only Mohammedan town where I
ba ; e r ;;;; r “^ b \v; ay) notfar7rom the junction of Pharaoh!
Alexander tbe Great> j foi)nd
seven of him—two senior pigs, an adolescent pig not yet
0 j vot i n „. a}je) and three junior pigs. The two senior
pigs were fighting a battle which filled up the entire street
and blocked my progress. The adolescent pig skirmished
c bj e f p jg—the very large brownish one—was routed and
fledi f e " vin „ all hig baggage and artillery behind him.
Then the track was clear, and I resumed liiy progress
towards the street of Alexander the Great,
The Egyptian police are a well-dressed, vigorous,
smart-looking body of men, but they don’t seem able even
to arrest attention, let alone a hardened offender. Their
methods are interesting. A street quarrel arises sud-
like a whirlwind leaping out of nothing. The
J n ’ ents clamol . like a myr i ad 0 f cockatoos. The more
despera t; e 0 f the two seizes his enemy by the
clothes and shakes them moderately. Twenty people
arrive and clamor. Thirty people turn up and
jabber. Fifty people transpire and roar. The
the origimd "disturbance. He'
tQ lisCen t 0 ever ybody’s story and everybody talks
at once The affair rises to the dignity of an inter-
national complication. The two combatants fade away
round the corner, and the policeman still listens, haggles,
argues, inquires and roars. Then he suddenly realises
that his case has ffone—has been gone a long while and is
half-way to Nub a—and he abandons the problem and
h:B y BCale i y progress.
There is a dinky little tramway system in Port Said,
The cars are small and dusty. The line is on a two-foot
gauge. Each vehicle is dragged by one horse which looks
as if its father had been a Newfoundland dog, and its
mother an old door-mat. A peculiar variety of sheep is
a , sQ geen wandering about the native town, it looks
bke a very large Skye terrier, only more so. You find
0(lt which is the front end of this unfathomable mass of
haii by waiting to see which extremity it eats with.
The Egyptian, like most of his colored kin, does no
repairs worth mentioning. He builds and then he trusts
in Allah. Port Said is new, yet it looks, in its back
parts, fully 500 years old. There are tall dwelling
houses of which the top storey seems to have been bashed
in—places that look like an immense habitable belltopper
with a wrecked crown—and the summits of these seem
to have been shored up with palings. There are smaller
places similarly bashed and similarly shored up. There
are innumerable drinking shops, native or semi-
European ; innumerable street-hucksters ; innumerable
people sitting around on the pavement or the place
where the pavement should be, for wherever one native
ist working three seem to be looking at him ; countless
touts for all manner of shops ; every kind of decay, every
variety of faded and sun-bleached coloring, and man in
every possible species of petticoat. If the old fighting
Egyptian wore that petticoat, Heaven only knows how he
got into battle soon enough to arrive, and how he got out
of it in time to get home for dinner.
A good deal of the scum of all nations seems to have
been left behind at Port Said when r.he Canal was finished.
Much of it married, I should think, and its grandson is
now in evidence—Monsieur Scum, Senor Scum, Signor
Scum, Herr Scum (rarely), and Sambo Scum the half-
caste. Above all there is Mr. Constantine Scumopoulos,
who is always with us. The agents for houses of ill-fame
tout shamelessly and point eagerly to some disreputable
and cut-throat looking shanty round the corner, and the
oily Egyptian bloke runs soft-footedly beside you and
gives the address of the place where the strictly un-
dressed variety of picture can be viewed. Also there are
gambling houses of a sort, and the wise stranger doesn’t
leave the little patch of civilised front street after dark —
not by himself, that is.
By a huge effort Bull, the ruler, keeps that bit of front
street clean and respectable. The rest he has given Up.
It is just Egypt—just old dirty Pharaoh and the back-
yard of a Cleopatra who has given herself up as the bad
job she is.
* * * *
“Mother’s Day” was celebrated in Syd-
ney on Sunday, May 14. “ Elsewhere it is a popu-
lar institution,” says an artless daily-paper par.
“The celebration takes various forms, one of the
most popular being the wearing of a white flower
—preferably a carnation—emblematic of purity,
beauty, love and faithfulness, all typical virtues
of a good mother.” This is very nice for Mother,
but what’s the matter with Father? Why not a
small cheque, surmounting a bundle of bills, worn
as a rosette, to indicate Daddy’s usefulness in
hours of emergency ? The Poor Old Bloke isn’t
given half a chance when sentimental people grow
symbolically poetic.
FUNCTIONAL LIVER TROUBLES are for the most
part the outcome of too little exercise and too good
living. The simplest and best of all remedies is a wine-
glassful of “ Hunyadi Janos ” natural aperient water
taken before breakfast every second or third morning.*
Set of head-lines in the Argus (Melb.) :
STATE CABINET.
RAILWAV ROLLING STOCK.
pEATH SENTENCES COMMUTED.
No doubt jt is very good news for railway travel-
lers. Still, to put it that way is very rough on
the imported genius who left the old rolling stock
in such a condition.
The Referendum fight was responsible for
a queer state of things in the Melbourne Advo-
cate office. The Advocate is the Vic.
R.C. organ, edited by Forde and
owned by Joe Winter, brother of
the late S. V., of the Herald.
Evidently the two couldn’t hit
it on this question; so editor
Forde wrote, in his authori-
tative column, that the
Advocate stood neutral,
being a religious paper,
while in another column
there was a long and
powerful letter from
Winter, giving his
reasons for voting No.
At this there was
much indignation
among the Yes
Catholics, and a
rumor was started
that Winter had got
£4OOO. He refers
to this yarn in the
last Advocate, and
declares that he
never got a cent.
Before the vote
was taken Mel-
bourne Catholics
gathered in St.
Pat’s Hall, Mel-
bourne, to hear
opposing mem-
bers of their
faith. Brennan
supported Yes
with great
effect. Ex-At-
torney - General
Glynn cha m-
pionedNo. Glynn’s
speech has been
described in the
words of Sir Anthony
Absolute to Mrs.
Malaprop: “You are
a truly modest and polite
arguer, for every third word
you say is on my side of the question.” To he
definite, Glynn said that the Referendum pro-
posals were all right, only they were prema-
ture. Which apparently means that they were
wrong merely because Glynn’s opponents pro-
posed them.
* * * *
At a London function the other day, Dan
O’Connor, holding a champagne-glass aloft, ad-
vanced to meet Ada Crossley, whose hand he
clutched while he made a long and characteristi-
cally O’Connorian speech. Australia’s contralto
endured it awhile, hut at last, seeing all eyes fixed
upon her and her flatterer, she began to squirm.
“Mr. O’Connor,” she said, “ please don’t hold on
to both wine and woman at once—one at a time,
if you please.” “My dear madame,” replied the
ever-gallant and unabashable Daniel, “it’s not
merely two that I have got in hand—it’s three:
woman, wine and song !
Who loves not Woman, Wine and Song
Remains a fool bis whole life long.”
So Dan still hung on, until Australia’s Ada could
invent some other excuse to go away and fan her-
self in a corner.
* * * *
“ Slag Dump ” from the great dust: —
Broken Hill has been the field of another liquor battle.
Following a recent reduction in the price of beer, two
hotels cut the price of wines and spirits to 3d in the front
bars. The howls of the other publicans were heard for
miles. As a start it was proclaimed that the liquor was
inferior ; but the two licensees satisfied the public about
that. Then other levers were tried. An attempt
was made by means of a petition to oust
one of the alleged “blacklegs” from the presidency
of a local racing club. That also failed. Then
the firms supplying the two pubs with liquor were
threatened with boycott. But there were too many
firms, and too many rival brands of firewater, for that to
succeed. The last move was a request to the Hotel
Employees’ Union to call out the staff and picket the
offending hotels. That gun w'as loaded both ends—and
went off at the wrong one. The union representatives
listened to what the complainants had to say, and replied
that if any employer wished to even give his goods away
he was at liberty to do so ; the union’s only concern was
to see that the employees were not sweated in the giving
away process. And the plaintiffs were further informed
that at a forthcoming conference I etween employers and
employees, the wages-sheet and the hours of working of
the two hotels under discussion would probably be
adopted by the union as a basis for improvements to be
demanded all round. The licensees had not recovered
from this shock at time of writing.
The Law can be not only an ass, but the
most idiotic brand of the beast. In South Au?.,
if bread is found to be under weight, it is the
baker’s cart-driver who goes through all the un-
pleasantness of the court proceedings, and is in
the end fined. The thief who cheats the public
and pockets the proceeds is not touched. Cer-
tainly, in most cases the thief-employer pays the
fine, but not always ; a case of the latter sort hap-
pened only the other day. The Law is aware of
all this, and has even been known to be sympa-
thetic ; but it hasn’t sense enough to score out the
weird injustice.
Justice has some weird ways in the West.
The other day an ex-municipal magnate was up
once more, charged with rooking the public by
selling short-weight bread. The Departmental
prosecutor told the R.M. that the man l ad been
up before and been fined <£s. “Been fined .£5
already, has he?” said the R.M. “Oh, in that
case we’ll make it £2 10s. this time ! ” Two moro
convictions, and he’ll obviously be getting a
bonus.
THE WRONG FUEL.
DRUNK (waking up on the hotel verandah and
warming his hands at the rising moon):
“ I'm always fellin' the mishits ter put
box logsh on the fire. There"sh no blanky
heat in thish 'ere green wood!”
If you want something really good in the way
of razors or razor strops, buy the Diamond Edge brand,
the best that money can buy. Razors 7s. 6d. and 10s. 6<l.
each. Strops 6s. Sold only by the Sole Agent, T. Wild,
Vice-Regal Hairdresser, 30 Sydney Arcadeentrance
from George or King Streets, Sydney.*
THE UNEMPLOYED HERO.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Manly Council has decided to dispense for the
winter months with the services of the life-savers on the
beach. An endeavor will be made to find the men some
other employment in the council while the bathing
season is off. —News Hern.
When the first shrill whoop of approaching winter is
heard in the south where the gales abide,
When the first swift touch of the wind Antarctic has
ruffled the beaches and greyed the tide,
When the brown-skinned surfers are overcoated and the
surf-girls cosily indoors lurk,
One weary bloke sits by the icy breakers--’tis the salaritd
hero out of work.
When the wild Pacific is showing white teeth right along
the base of the North Head cliffs,
When the rain is dashing against the windows and all is
umbrellas and fires and sniffs,
Roams a large, sad man on the empty Corso whose sum-
mer job is to be prompt and brave ;
The grief at his heart (Oh, the pity of it!) is that there
is no one about to save 1
Oh! the sullen boom of the great seas breaking- mono-
tonous anthem that never dies,
Till the calendar is attenuated, and back to the scene
come the summer flies !
It worries the man who, for weeks unending, has rescued
and basked for his daily bread ;
For the winter comes with its squalls to tell him he has
got to tackle plain work instead.
With his brown thews hid ’neath an old blue jumper, he
will shovel stones where the cars go by,
And the motors, driven at speeds excessis e, will spatter
their grit at his watchful eye ;
And, blinking back there in the dust-cloud, maybe 1 e
will recognise with a weary smile
A terrible road-hog he saved from drowning, and ask
himself sadly : “ Was it worthwhile?”
But the first warm breath of returning summer will see
him parade on the beach again ;
And the brown surf-maidens will stand and worship the
depth of his sunburn like walnut stain ;
He will lounge on the sands a king, my brothers, while
we remain tied to our desks in town.
But—this month is on'y the start of winter, so find i.s
some work for a hero brou u 1
N.S.W.
SURFER.


What we want is a body of upright
•nen, self-respecting, courageous, who
know what moral responsibility is, and.
what is most important of all. who
know the value of good manners-
4
B°y
SHOULD THE CHURCH AMUSE?
The Rev. E. Davies said that his posi-
tion had always been one of indifference
to most pleasures and amusements, on
the principle that, while they were not
wrong, they were really not worth
while. He had known churches which
ran cards and billiards, dnd got some
J good out of them.
J*W„ % v/K>lc j>olitcocSsr""
mioVT "We Toy sco<A+/^t$ co<A+ /^t: + "
'S A v <*l^ r ° Ka c
r ° *« t7 ofr °; t s 7 d
feel."? if tfe f>»&+«• stoofed -fe fivKe a. W &
At" r*te it" would nelfc
7 -fo Keep 'fy* \>°°X
Lord Denham recalled that the High
Commissioner had given him some good
advice, particularly as to interesting
Australian public meetings. He had
said : "I would advise you to give up
that cold, calculating style of speaking
that obfains in the House of Lords, and
impart more warmth and life and en
y thusiasm into your address."
TWld iii l*»tge very „
'«e ".(««* .njl-wtc «(■ rshg.-.-foKf*
f> O WaJ
IMPORTING LOCOnOTIVES-
A SHAMEFUL BUNQLE.
The question arises whether moiiths
ago the Commissioners could not have
prepared plans for the extension of New-
port Workshops, and requested the
State Government to provide the needed
artisans.
Vic _ " IV7comcs oj
S»cKn«S^*
— Furthermore. your
|or<*s,hU>» I s^ d ' t ‘° P^ll*
' JSu wf* s°">J °P m a ov '" 'i e * a
I "
T„ M.cKo, If fcp'or'K
Lllo-er, ii *
fro**^ 00 *’ c^Ut '* ,
JrThe clubs take almost all the gate-
money, and a young man playing senior
football lives lor five months at the
rate of about £lOOO a year, while for
the remaining seven months such lux-
uries are withdrawn, leaving a sharp
contrast between the poverty of sum-
mer and the wealth of winter
f School
\ l OH
Oof’b*ll )
A^o
4 rr °^
%» s
IH mrv, C r
h* "ta expected -to
*)&><£ Jrurtive
vi s wftfj f>£t%&ti c sj»/}esl 5
■ / f«K ' lb>' , l } l 3^r,ee ./*
o' f3/«*vs«» /^, 5S u S*
AS THE WORLD LOOKS TO VINCENT.


Lewis & Whitty’s Harness Dressing
(BLACK OR TAN)
Gives a brilliant finish, preserves and nourishes Buggy
or Motor Hoods, Harness, Leggings and all Leather Goods.
LEWIS & WHITTY, MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
McKenzie’s excelsior baking powder.
Diamonds Reduced
Enormously.
For six months we will offer Diamonds in Rings
and Pendants, and Jewellery generally, at
prices never before attempted in Australia.
WHY ? Well, we have undertaken a Sole
Agency that calls fof an enormous output,
and we have to live up to it, and so we are
offering all Diamond goods at merely a
commission on the actual cost.
It will pay us, because of the advertisement and
the increase of customers.
Choice Dia-
monds and
Whole
Pearls,
£8 pair.
Selected Diamonds and
Peridots or Opals,
£l5/15/- pair.
Fine Di a-
monds and
Whole
Pearls,
£2l pair.
Flain Figures
Cash.
Fairfax & Roberts,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“Hip” : Quite expect to see the foxes com-
ing in for a “warm” at the fireside this winter.
They begin to show a superb indifference here, in
Monaro, to the man without a gun. I was going
round some rabbit-traps about daybreak the other
morning, when my breath was stopped by the sight
of a fox a few yards off, calmly regarding me. One
of the traps had bitten his front foot. It looked a
good trap, and cost tenpence, so with a rush of in-
dignation I seized half a tree and went for him. He
loped off, looking rather bored, and kept just near
enough to tempt me to make blind hits at him and
fall over every log in my path. I chased him to
the foot of a mountain, where he fell back into a
creek; and I stopped to consider whether I’d die of
temper or exhaustion. After deciding to postpone
the corpse, I returned to the traps. Bless me, if
there wasn’t another red monster sniffing round!
He also appeared alarmingly collected, and watched
me with cool interest. The spectacle of a lean
female of uncertain age, in a dissipated-looking
hat, might thereafter have been seen tearing for
home, and a man and a gun. We got the fellow
with the trap; the other must have guessed the
reason of my haste. Now, to-day, a stockman tells
me that a fox came ambling towards him between
his two dogs —which, apparently, were on quite
friendly terms with the beast.
SWEET MEMORIES.
CONVERTED CANNIBAL: “ My word, she been put-em blenty spice alonger dat peller."
“Billy T.”: The train had run into a red
cow at Brandy Creek, with the result that two car-
t-iages had been jolted off the line, and about 50
yards of rails and sleepers ripped up. Three pas-
sengers, victims of “shock,” displaced collar-bone and
splintered rib, were lying on the bank, and hysterics
arid frenzy possessed everybody but the man on the
fence. The man on the fence was a leathery hermit,
with fuzzy, ginger whiskers swarming all over his
visible surface, and he sat there in a state of stony
calm, scraping and munching a carrot, and regard-
ing the wreckage and the riot with the dull eye of
an assassinated cod. When they carried the stunned
stoker, and propped him against the fence, the man
on the top rail gulped his carrot, and said “Jist
what I bin expectin’. ” “What ?” “This here spill,
Watched her waltzin’ round on the line for more 'n
’arf a hour, an’ I reckoned the 2.30 would fetch
her.” “Then, why the Devil didn’t you drive her
off ?” “Ain’t got time chasin’ other folkses’ cows,”
said the man on the fence, and broke off the col-
loquy short.
“McTavish”: In Cloncurry district (Q.)
a sheep-man with two half-caste children and the
gin mother drove up with all three, walked up to
the man who told me the yarn and said: You the
parson?” “Yes,” said Reverend Bush Brother.
“Right,” said the sheep-man; “I’ve got a couple of
clean-skins in the trap want branding, may be
duffed later on, you know, by the R.C.’s —so you’d
better get your brand on.”
* * * *
“Kodak”: Joe and Tat were the most
affectionate pair of brothers that ever went prospect-
ing. They lived and drank together in peace and
happiness, except when Pat did some unusually
careless and clumsy thing and endangered his life.
Pat was always making minor mistakes; but every
now and then he made a mistake with his explosives
—and all mistakes with explosives are unfriendly.
The day after we met them he almost succeeded in
getting blown to bits with the last of four shots
which he had put in and forgotten to count. He was
about to go below, to resume work when the charge
exploded and spattered the side of the shaft with
rock fragments. Joe, the devoted, first thanked
Heaven for his brother’s escape; but, as he grew
calmer, he lashed himself into a passion over Pat’s
lunatic carelessness. “I declare t’ God,” he shouted,
thrusting his immense knotted fist close under Pat’s
nose, “I’ve a good mind to knock th’ face off yez!”
Pat, thoroughly scared, staggered back ; but Joe, now
quite hysterical with rage, pursued him with clenched
hands and further threats. “I’m thinkin’ that if I
gave yez a hidin’ now it might be th’ savin’ of yez
later on! Why th’ divil can’t yez count your d—d
shots an’ not go riskin’ yer ’life? On me sowl, if
yez don’t get more sense an’ take some care av your
skin, I’ll break your neck! Phat th’ ! divil d’ye think
I’d be doin’ without yez, ye fool? D’ye want t’ see
me goin’ round with crape on me hat for yez?” The
monologue went on for half an hour; and when it
was over and Joe had dismissed him with a final
malediction, poor Pat slunk over to our camp for
some tobacco and consolation. A less clumsy and
forgetful miner would not have made any more bad
mistakes for at least a week after such a shaking
up; but Pat was no ordinary forgetter. Three days
after he lost count again, and this time the volley
dropped him. We rushed over, in response to Joe’s
frenzied call for help, and helped him to get the
limp form to.,the surface. Then Joe got out his
bicycle and started off like . one demented for the
doctor, while we rendered a passable imitation of
first-aid. Our attentions and whisky at last brought
Pat round, and he stared up at us dully from under-
neath the bandage we had wrapped round his cruelly-
gashed head. We asked him how he felt, and waited
anxiously for his reply. Like a half-drugged man he
brooded for a minute; then sat up with a jerk and
looked wildly about him. “Boys,” he cried, “hide
me, for the love of God! If Joe finds me alive he’ll
kill me!”
“Boyd”: I think I can put “Jonnel” (B.
20/4/’ll) on a fair track to the explanation of the
origin of the saying “running the cutter.” In most
parts of Scotland a “cutter” is the accepted name
for a flat flask bottle used by the natives for carry-
ing supplies of the lime-juice of those savage parts,
Hence, I have heard the North speak of itself as
“the land o’ cakes and cutters.” They don’t speak
there, though, of “running the cutter”; the local
phrase is “rinning the coble.” A coble is a flat-
bottomed rowing boat with a sharp and a blunt end.
It is used in fishing, and especially in the hauling of
the salmon nets, which are usually set close inshore
and, consequently, in shallow water. Local tales say
that up to fairly recent times the bigger fishing
boats used to meet the French luggers, which hung
about over the horizon, and buy cheap supplies of
brandy, which were quietly dumped overboard near
the salmon nets with a cork-float attached. The coble
would collect the spoil when they collected the
salmon, or would make a quiet little business trip in
the darkness.
IN THE COW COUNTRY.
M. C.: “wha t, not darncing, Bill?"
B ILL: “ Naw. My heifer's broke away — that's ’er darncing with Barney."
M.C.: “ Never mind ’er. Bail up one o’ ther ole milkers."
“Curse o’ Moses”: “Hamer’s” evasive re-
ply to my challenge to produce a black Maori (B.
27/4/’ll) moves me to tears. He says that he
never said the Maori was black, and goes on to
vaguely assert that he once knew a family of half-
castes who were half black and half white. Again
I must complain of “Hamer’s” failure to produce
his variegated family. What court would accept
such evidence as he tenders? Privately, I believe
that “Hamer,” as his name indicates, is a son of
Ham, or else holds a brief for that race. He
wants to find blackness where none exists. My claim
is that the Maori, both by descent and nature, is
in all essentials a white man; and any
fool of a mother who “ brooded ” over the
dreadful fact that her son might resemble
a noble Ngatitoa or Ngapuhi, deserves to
be compelled to christen the infant Potatau
Kohutuknokawau, and call him by his full name
every time she addresses him. Anyhow, “Hamer”
sidesteps my challenge. He has thrown black Ham-
etic mud at the white-intentioned Aryan race who
preceded Cohen in the possession of louland, and,
by the beard of the late Hone Heke, the only way in
which he can redeem his character is to face the
situation like a man, produce a reasonable number
of black Maoris, or else eat his own vain and
vague aspersions cast on half-caste motherhood.
“Condamine”: I think I can enlighten
“Araemo” (B. 16/3/’ll) as to the bird that, builds
nests 15ft. and 150 ft. around, vide an English paper.
It is called the Deak hen. Its chief habitat is the
wilds of Ballarat, but different varieties of the
species are to be found all around the frontage of
Australia. It is a very friendly bird, a good talker,
and finds the erection of these structures an easy
matter, as it has a great faculty of making moun-
tains out of molehills. Its chief building material
are the leaves of a tree called the vocabulary, and
it is remarkable how it gives the. flimsiest of these
structures the appearance of great solidity. The
English paper was wrong, however, in describing the
things as nests. As a matter of fact, the structure
is really a clever trap for its prey. It lives mostly
on insects called constituents.
*■ * * *
“Condoi”: Re nests of jungle-fowl and
scrub turkey. Have seen nests of latter 30ft. in
diameter and about sft. high. Once watched a pair
of turkeys making a nursery. They worked in
shifts, one keeping watch on top of the mound,
while the other, with its tail to the nest, sent a
cloud of sticks, leaves, dirt and stones flying towards
its mate for about two minutes. Its wind or
something used to give out then, and it would mount
the look-out for a spell, while its mate used the
shovel. Turkeys usually take about eight days to
get their nest in order, and then leave it till
the decaying vegetation generates enough heat for
incubation purposes. The nest of the jungle-fowl,
commonly called the scrub hen, is similar in build
and material to that of the turkey, but smaller.
The largest measures about 15ft. in diameter, and
between 3ft. and 4ft. high. It also differs from
that of the turkey in that it is almost invariably
built round the foot of a tree, and usually on low
ground, while the turkey likes high ground, and
builds his residence in a clear space.
* * * *
“Marc Antoni”: A Fiji nigger yarn.
When the white men came, of course they wore boots,
and the natives looked and marvelled. Presently
one got hold of a pair. He boiled them for three
days, and then they . weren’t eatable. When the
niggers got to know the white man bettter, they asked
him how he managed to get his feet so tough.
“Les”: I, too, wish to say a few words
on behalf of the cocky farmer:—
(1) He knows more about cream than all the but-
ter factory managers in Australia.
(2) He has forgotten more about diseases in cattle
than all the vets, in the world.
(3) He is grateful to his cows; never chases them
while there is a savage dog handy; never takes any-
thing heavier to them than a spade when tney won’t
bail up.
(4) He keeps his shed and cans scrupulously
clean, especially if he knows the inspector is in the
district.
(5) He pays his men a living wage of 15s. a week,
even if he is getting only £lOO a month for cream.
(6) He gives the poor immigrant an early start-
early as possible.
(7) He allows his hands a few hours off every
Saturday to do their own washing.
(8) He sends his children to school rather than
pay fines.
(9) He gets the corn-fed price for pigs,, despite
the fact that he has to fatten them on skim milk
and molas3es.
If immigrants want any more information they will
have to see me personally.
THE MUSE IN THE COUNTRY.
Mr. Trefle says there is too much pushing into
the already overcrowded professions, and that there
is scope on the land for the most capable intellect.
—News Item.
One of The Bulletin bards is trying it.
“ But the difficultysays he, “is to keep up
the cow’s hind leg."
“Pick”': The late Arthur Nicols, with the
many letters after his name, who is quoted by “St.
S.” (B. 30/3/T1) as an authority to refute the state-
ment that snakes fascinate their prey, may be right,
but my observations induce me to swear otherwise.
Recently I was attracted by the unusual behavior of
a rabbit, which, while circling around an open space,
threw paw-springs backwards after spasmodic darts
towards the centre. The creature squealed pitifully
meanwhile, and on approaching I saw protruding
from the middle of a coil the evil-looking flattened
head of a large tiger snake. As the snake whirled
his head, drew back, or shot forward, his victim
tremblingly followed the movement, ever drawing
nearer to the folds; and though plainly in the most
deadly fear he apparently lacked all power to get
away from the horrid presence. I put Svengali out
of business with a hunk of wood.
THE FLYING DRUNK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
N.s.w.
.. , .
The bi-plane like an injured kite
Rocked on the rising gale;
A godly fowl with all his might
1 lew in its petrol trail;
One beakful large of fumes he caught,
Then quickly gave it best,
And hurried homeward to report
The matter to the nest.
“I flew to-day,” he told liis wife,
“Behind a monstrous thing.
’Twas drunk as Chloe. On my life,
It staggered on the wing!
As it went singing through the air,
Its vile breath made me shrink.
Have you encountered anywhere
An albatross in drink ? ’
AH TOO SOON.


A.N.A. Secretary writes:
“ It is astonishing how little
we know of our own in-
dustries. I shall always use
CALDWELL’S INKS in future.”
PLASMON COCOA
“1 BeMcleus Beverage ef much greater
nutritive value than ordinary Cocoa."
—British Medical Journal*
PLASMON IS USED BY THE ROYAL FAMILY,
Australian Depot: 5& 7 Barrack St., Sydney.
The Royal Hotel,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Most centrally situated Hotel in Sydney.
Best place to lunch and dine in town.
J. W. COCKBAINE, Proprietor.
/
Constipation
Vanishes For Ever
Prompt Belief Permanent Cure.
CABTEB’S LITTLE LIVEB PILLS
never fail. Purely vegetable—act
rarely but gently on the liver. Stop
after-dinner distress— cure indigestion
—improve the complexion—brighten
the eyes.
Small Pill, Small Dose, Small Pric*
GENUINE must bear Signature
Carters
ITTLE•
IVER
FILLS.
“Montalex”: “Sapphire Smith’s” funny
little friend of the Cairns mud-flats (B. 13/4/’ll)
is an old acquaintance of mine, easily identifiable
through the big, bulging eyes, which give the
creature such a ludicrous expression of mingled im-
pudence and astonishment. His genus rejoices in
the imposing zoological label of Periophthalmus, all
the species whereof have the pectoral fins modified
almost into sturdy little legs for mud-walking pur-
poses, and are able to breathe for a considerable
time out of water, by means of a special air-storing
chamber lying beneath the gills. P. is very common
in the mangrove flats of the Malay Archipelago, and
there I have timed him to be out of water, or tem-
porarily self-interred in moist mud, up to three and
a-half minutes. Stranger still, he can respire through
the skin of his tail; so that if he be but allowed
to keep his peroration in the water, his exordium
can remain for half an hour in the air.
THE LAST STRAW.
SUNDOWNER ( who has noticed steam rising
from radiator): “Say, boss, would yer
mind sparing a drop of 'ot water ter make
a billy o' tea?"
“Jok” : Further evidence against the Aus-
tralian Binglii’s capacity for coining new words (B.
27/4/’ll). Recently, while conversing with a
dusky monarch, King Yowel, of Tabulam tribe
(N.S.W.), a traction engine came snorting down a
neighboring hill. Asked his Majesty, “What name
you call that feller?” “I call him traction engine,”
I answered expectantly. What name you call
him?” “Yohi, I call ’iin dracshun injun, too” he
grunted.
* * * *
“Yalgun”: “The Jester” (B. 27/4/T1)
kills a cow with a carpet snake. I never tried to
kill a “carpet” with a cow, but I failed to settle
one the other day by driving a sharp stick through
his head twice, and then cutting a previously swal-
lowed kangaroo rat out of his abdomen. Met him
next day about half a mile from the scene of en-
counter. He still wanted to fight; but I let him off
with a caution.
HUMILITY.
GINGER R AFFERTY: “ Madam , ye jes' asked
me ter split that wood."
MRS. TUBBS: “ Yes."
G.R.: “ Wouldn't ye like me to carry it into the ’ouse and make a fire fur yer?"
MRS. T. (surprised): “If you wish to."
G.R.: “ Oh , no, mum; I don’t wish to. I was merely showin’ yer how, when yer smite
me on one cheek, I can turn the other to yer."
“F.L.8.,” from a very remote archi-
pelago :
“G.R.F.” (B. 22/9/’10) is quite right in declar-
ing that diving is white man’s work. I, myself, put
in six months on a lugger at, Thursday Island learn-
ing the business. If the tucker were improved no
healthier life could be desired for a young Aus-
tralian. The life could easily be made more at-
tractive than pick-and-shovel work or station life,
or working for a cocky. I did not stick to it in
Thursday Island, because at the time the white men,
at £2O a ton, were only making about £7O to £9O
a year. The monthly ratiohs were also never enough,
and the crew always had the spare hand fishing.
Re par by “S.
S. Severn” (B.
17/3/’10). The
charts of Torres
Strait at one time
were marked “in-
habitants danger-
ous.” Once Deaf
Bill, the diver, in
calm weather, told
his crew to get out
the oars and pull
towards a large
windjammer. He
was received by all
hands and the
cook, armed with
guns. The captain
took him for a pi-
rate. All that poor
old Bill wanted
was to buy grog.
Any vessel going
to anchor in Santa
Anna had better
not drop the mud-
hook opposite the
canoe - house.
There’ll be no lady
visitors if this sail-
ing instruction is
not observed. The
young women of
that island are
light - brown and
made like goddes-
ses, and do not
conceal their beau-
ty in any way. But
no woman may pass in front of the canoe-house.
One missionary, I see, stated in Sydney that the
natives of Santa Cruz steep their arrows in the
putrid bodies of the slain. It was the usual sensa-
tional exaggeration. The Santa Cruz arrows are
pointed with human bone, ground to a fine, brittle
point. As this point nearly always breaks off and
remains in the wound (a small punctured wound),
tetanus ensues.
Like Mr. “Barbarantiko,” I have been trading for
a long time in the South Seas. (Big place that.)
Everywhere I have found the native to be a mere
child in intellect. He has not got the brains to be
successful. But he is, in my opinion, no more dis-
honest than the white. Even in “bad” islands, I’ve
often been astonished at his throwing away good op-
portunities for stealing.
“Walkabout”: As “Culux” says (B.
23/3/’ll), there are some white patches in West-
ralia; but there are some black ones. On
the Murchison Goldfields, Chow cooks (or
Chows of any sort) are seldom, if ever,
met, but the little Jap is in nearly every
town. At Sandstone, which thinks it is a hotbed of
unionism, “Tommy” proudly advertises the fact that
he owns and runs “the Japanese laundry next to the
A.W.A. Hall,” and the takings of this laundry are
alleged to be about £l2 a week. It is safe betting
that a good part of that £l2 comes out of the
pockets of moleskin pants.
Fifteen years ago Phillips Ormonde were im-
pressed when the first motor-car in Melbourne drew
up at their office door. These Patent Attorneys
were, however, far more deeply moved when they
recently beheld the first aeroplane flight over the
Station. But wide and untouched are many other
domains still waiting for the inventor to fathom. Is
the perfect illuminating system an accomplished fact?
Is domestic drudgery incapable of alteration ? Is build-
ing construction perfect ? Or farm machinery ? Improve-
ments are patented at 266 Flinders St., Melbourne.*
“Condamine”: Various Bulletin writers
miss the point when they assert that good bush and
pea-rifle shots are no good at long-distance target
shooting. From plenty of experience, I am con-
vinced that a man who can “get bells” at pool-
shooting, with the 22 pea-gun, and drop wallabies
in the Jlush, can shoot straight up to any distance.
That is, he can hold the gun steadily and sight it
accurately. The fact that wind, etc., alters the
course of the bullet, only shows that he must ac-
quire the knowledge to overcome the difficulty, just
as the man who learns wholly on the long range did,
and he’ll acquire it quickly. As far as elevation
goes, it is the custom of kangaroo shooters to get
this, not on the ladder, but by taking a thicker
sight, or firing high on the game, according to dis-
tance, and also they allow for wind. And here I
ask, how many target shots who get windage on
the bar with flags and vernier, know what distance
they are actually sighting from the target, and how
many of them could allow correctly for wind and
elevation in hurried shooting under war conditions?
In a pitched battle the enemy will not perch him-
self on a mound, with an arrangement of flags at
previously ascertained distances, while the Australian
marksman fools around with a vernier and soap-
pencil. As to guerilla \<;arfare, where our strength
would lie, give me still more the man who has been
accustomed to shoot game under all conditions in the
bush.
* * * #
“Hassan” : Permit me to clear up “Blue
Bottle’s” trouble at Manly (B. 27/4/’ll). His op-
ponent on that occasion was one of the Cup-moth
larvae (Limacodidce) , probably Doratifera vulnerans.
This beast is a placid person, who is usually found
on gum-trees; the tea-tree habitat is new to me.
He has, as “Blue Bottle” remarks, eight groups of
red erectile spines with which he makes his pre-
sence felt. When he has finished annoying people
in this manner, and has grown into a comely youth
about an inch long, he spins a remarkable little grey
silken cup, about a third of an inch, in diameter,
and as hard as wood, attaching it firmly to a branch.
In this, unless an ichneumon fly gets him (which
often happens), he roosts comfortably until the
time when he is due to appear as a small brown
moth. Then he looks round for a wife, and his
descendants carry on the same old joke upon unsus-
pecting strangers. Numbers of our moths have sting-
ing spines upon them, notably the larvae of the
Liparid species (Teara contracta), which, roping
themselves together with a thin thread of silk,
wander about like roaring teddy-bears, seeking what
they may devour. But none of these have the power
of retracting their prickles like “Blue Bottle’s”
savage foe.
“Drayman” on the humor of Binghi:
That “somebody,” who is accused by “Biomide”
(B 27/4/’ll) of having said that Black Brother
has no sense of humor, is hereby suspected of being
a No-bodv, he handles the truth so carelessly. Binghi
has always had a reputation for saying witty things
to raise a laugh, and his enjoyment of a joke of any
sort proves that he is not devoid of the sense man-
tioned The Bulletin has printed hundreds of
quaint similes, some of them white scribes’ fakes,
no doubt, but many scores of them genuine, spon-
taneous ebullitions of the cheerful humor that bubbles
out of blackfellows as freely as out of children
and other irresponsibles. (By the way, there might
be money in a book of black fellow similes and
smarticisms. Wonder Meston or 1 avenc didn t com-
pile such a volume years ago.) I have never lived
among blacks in their absolutely untamed state, so
cannot speak with authority as to the e\ ideuces of
wit and humor extant in the tribal languages; but
a big percentage of the hundreds of half-civilised
blacks I have met in various parts of Australia
impressed me as being particularly jocular citizens.
They are inveterate punsters, and far more prolific
in that regard, considering the limits of their Eng-
lish vocabulary, than are the whites who, as profes-
sionals at that species of gymnastics, pose unasham-
edly. They also have all the white pun-makers
alertness in the detection of unintentional puns.
Half a century or so ago, writer’s dad, in company
with a lad named James Morrow (a new chum), met
a remnant of the Moorabin (Vic.) tribe of abori-
ginals, to whom the new chum lad was unknown.
“Name you?” demanded a stalwart binghi, to
“Jimmy Morrow,” replied the youth; what s
'°“ Jimmy Yessadee,” flashed the black, with a loud
Sn in the guffaw most of the tribe joined, showing
that they, too, appreciated the clever turning of the
tables on the supposed “leg-puller.”
Old Brighton boys might write and tell you that
the spot where this actually occurred was close to the
present site of Gordon’s grave, and that the dialogue
took place between a blackfellow and a youth named
Ered Weber (pronounced Webber) —sire of champion
wrestler Clarence —and that the darkie’s rejoinder
was “Freddy Flycatchum” (meaning spider) ; but
don’t give credence to such a far-fetched taradiddle.
The “Morrow” version is the only genuine article.
Besides, mine is a better story.
Once heard a Queensland black, during Ins first
trip with cattle overland to Sydney-side, say of the
present High Commissioner: “By cripes, that pfeller
no Reid; him ole man bottle-tree!”
At Coranderk (Vic.) —or, perhaps, it was at Dar-
lington, on the Murrumbidgee (N.S.W.) —an old mis-
sion black gin listened gravely to a station jackeroo’s
impassioned account of having seen and chased into
a hollow log a black snake “longer than that”—
pointing to a nine-feet fence rail. “My word!” said
Grong-Grong Mary, with a merry twinkle in her only
eye, “mine thinkit that pfeller gallopin’ like ’ell
w’en you bin inejjer ’im, boss!” It was a true
bill; the youth had guessed the reptile’s measure as
it fled for shelter.
It was a station blackfellow who told me, as a
huge joke, of his missis, as black as himself, having
sung out to their 10-year-old son, who was as black
as the blackness of both parents freshly tarred:
“Come inside, you bin catchem sunstruck and bin git
as brown as a berry.”
Then we have the Cobar Jakky-Jakky, who is
alleged to have cadged a “tchillin’ ” from a well-
known politician (who said he was sorry to see
Jakky stumped), backing his dilapidated belltopper
into the same silvermine a second time. On being
asked to explain his fresh demand, Jakky pointed
to his bob-tailed kangaroo dog, with: “Mate longa
me, boss; him stumped too!”
* * * *
“Otipua”: Recently got into a patch of
M.L. where football savages are bred. Sunday was
the usual practice day, and about 11 a.m. the mob
used to get to it in an adjacent paddock. Two
minutes after kick-off there were generally seven
stand-up fights in progress simultaneously, while the
language was strong enough to pull the tussocks up
by the roots. One day a new referee came along,
and in the middle of a conglomeration of scrap he
blew his whistle. Two ol the savages were still kick-
ing Sheol out of each other when the referee inter-
fered. First savage: “What’s up with ye?” Referee:
“The ball has been kicked into the creek.” Second
Savage: “To hell with the barl—let’s get on with
the game!”
LEARNING THE BUSINESS.
ABRAHAMS: “ Hey , vat you buy this old thin"
for? ”
ISAACS: “I picked tip a ticket ' Very March
Worn,' and I didn't vant to vaste it."
ACROSS THE RANGE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Your old dog gazes up at me with wistful human
eyes,
Or whines a long-drawn note of human pain;
He is mourning for the master who has crossed the
misty rise,
And whose footfall he will never hear again.
The candle flames burn yellow in the grey light of
the dawn,
And waver in its faint insistent breath,
That bears the dewy fragrance of the flowers across
the lawn,
Within the heavy atmosphere of Death.
From the white and rigid outlines of the silent hills
of clay,
I turn hot tearless eyes, my vigil done,
To meet the far-flung glory of the coming of the
day,
As the Eastern gates swing open to the Sun ;
And it seems your spirit passes on the pinions of
the breeze,
As the river mists roll back o’er plain and hill —
In the whispering of the grasses and the sighing
of the trees,
Oh, my comrade, are you speaking to me still?
Your horse impatient whinnies as he frets within
his stall,
And gazes forth your stalwart form to seek;
He is waiting for your kindly voice his name again
to call,
And to press his velvet muzzle to your cheek;
And here within this quiet room, amidst funereal
flowers,
As cold and white as they you slumber on,
The clock upon the mantel marks the passing of the
hours —
You who loved to boot and saddle, and begone.
Shall we ever ride together through those joyous
hours again,
’Neath the grand cathedral arches of the trees,
With our bridles making music to a light and care-
less rein,
And the heel-plates of our guns upon our knees?
Or across the blazing pine-logs, on the broad, old-
fashioned hearths,
At the finish of a long and glorious day,
Retrace our steps together down some dear for-
gotten path,
Through boyhood’s fairer vistas far away ?
Yes! if in the Great Hereafter any lesser living
thing.
Than Man deserves the Master’s love and care,
Oh, you’ll hear the bridle music and you’ll hear the
stirrups ring,
When we cross the misty ranges over there !
And you’ll greet us in our coming—the man, and
horse and hound,
Who loved you well and mourned you not in vain,
And across the flower-starred meadows of the Happy
Hunting Ground,
We shall take the track together once again.
N.s.w.
HORACE HALLORAN.


IN CHAINS.
After months of struggle, during which it was announced that H. V. McKay would remove some of his works to Europe, the Harvester strike has at
last been ended. In view of threatened labor difficulties, other manufacturers are considering the question of following Mr. McKay in establishing part of
their works elsewhere. —News Item.
AUSTRALIA: “And they chained me so that I cannot give Industry a hand over the bridge!"


GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
WORLD-FAMED
For
QUALITY
HATS.
For
DURABILITY.
THE
RIGHT DRINK
On a Sea Voyage.
It has been found by many people that one of the
best drinks aboard ship is the non-alcoholic O.T.
This beverage is a stomachic of undoubted merit,
whose action tones the stomach, aids digestion
and prevents the unpleasant sensations of nausea
which accompany sea-sickness.
For the tropical regions O.T. has proved a par-
ticularly safe drink, as it derives beneficial pro-
perties from certain ingredients much used by the
inhabitants of hot climates to resist fevers, dysen-
tery and other inflammatory complaints. O.T.
carries the endorsement of the highest medical
and analytical authorities, and is now obtainable
in any part of the world.
PERIONAL
ITEMS
At a gathering of the clans in Melbourne,
Vic.’s retiring Governor Carmichael admitted that
two of his ancestors were hanged, and that 'they
richly deserved it. This is an example of open
confession Australian “ Sassiety ” will be slow to
follow.
Strong man Sandow has been appointed
Professor of Scientific Physical Culture to the
King. This honor has been bestowed in thanks
for Sandow’s distinguished services to Britain and
its people. Apparently the distinguished services
mostly in view consist of the whooping with which
Eugen tried to boom the Territorials—the awful
failure with which Britain has been trying to
dodge compulsory military training.
Engineer Keele, of Sydney, who is chair-
man of the Commission of three appointed by the
Bananaland Government to inquire into the
possibilities of Mackay as a deep-water port, gave
that sugar centre some good Australian advice
when it welcomed him the other day. He
remarked that the discoverer of the place ("Captain
John Mackay, of the Brisbane Marine Depart-
ment) ought to be kept in memory, and, since
men did not live for ever, a cast of the features
should be secured before the old skipper laid aside
his sea boots for ever. “ And should you decide
to erect a monument,” concluded Keele, “build
it of good Australian marble.” Mackay will
celebrate its jubilee next year, so Keele’s sugges-
tion may be carried into effect.
GEORGE CLIFFORD, MAORILAND’S
SPORTING BARONET.
The Federal Government has succumbed
to the importing mania, and selected a British ex-
naval officer named Brewis for the job of light-
house expert; pay, £750 a year. Commander
Brewis is a young man, 36 years of age, who was
retired at his own request last June, and visited
Australia on spec. His luck was in, and, if he
possesses the two essential qualifications for his
billet, so was Australia’s. Perhaps absolute
familiarity with this continent’s geographical and
meteorological conditions is insisted upon in the
British navy, and a knowledge of lighthouse con-
struction, mechanics, equipment, illuminants and
optics generally may be a special study for
officers. The harrowing experiences of this
country with the general run of imported geniuses
will make it sincerely hope so, anyhow.
Various papers
are now publishing
serially the alleged
memoirs of Dan
Kelly, who is said
to have survived the
little unpleasant-
ness with the police
at Glenrowan, and
to be still on'eartli.
If this is true, some-
body is wrongfully
in possession of the
£2oooreward offered
for the body of
Daniel. A total of
£BOOO was offered
for the two Kellys,
Steve Hart and Joe
Byrne, and the lot
was collected. As
blood-money goes, it
was a big price,
even for bush-
rangers. Originally
£lOOO was offered
for Dan Morgan ;
but this was in-
creased to £l5OO as
Dan grew more
atrocious. He was
ultimately shot. For
the22-year-old bush-
ranger, John Gil-
bert, £lOOO was also
offered. Ben Hall
was worth £lOOO,
£5OO of which went
to his betrayer and
£5OO to the police
present at his death.
The police were
evidently keen on
the £5OO, for Ben
was punctured in 35
places. £lOOO was
paid for John Dunn
(hanged on Christ-
mas Eve, 1865), and
a like amount for
John Clark. “Thun-
derbolt” (the gentle-
manly person who
once robbed a Ger-
man band, but
promised to return
their money if he
successfully robbed a richercrowd, and kept
his word) was never more valuable than
£5OO. The same was offered for Frank
Gardiner and Henry Power. Power is supposed
by many people to have been betrayed by Ned
Kelly, who, eight years later, took to the business
himself. Perhaps the most valuable reward ever
offered in Australia was for the capture of an
insurrectionary black named Saturday. That
little bait ran "to 500 acres of land near Sydney.
Sir Oliver Lodge, F.R.S., Professor of
Physics at University College, London, is ex-
pected in Australia shortly, and may lecture here
—probably on his pet subject of spooks, in whieli
he is nowadays an enthusiastic believer. Lodge’s
handiest spook is one that brought a decanter of
wine from the cupboard and poured out a glass
for him. If Lodge can keep that spook in good
working order, he can book himself for a lecture
in every town in Australia. Still, he ought to
make it beer and come in summer.
Hugh J. Ward is leaving in his wake in
M.L. a trail of hospitals or additions to hospitals.
In Dunedin the inhabitants were short of some-
thing like £lO,OOO for a separate ward for the
treatment of women. So they looked Ward up
and suggested that he should do something. He
did ; with one hand he passed over a cheque for
£5O with a proviso that 10 citizens should
do the same ; and with the other he sent a message
> to the company to line up for a street collection
and matinee. When the mail left, McTavish had
banged his last saxpence, and was afraid to answer
a knock at the door in case it should be Grace
Palotta come round for the family bagpipes.
Dr. Louis A. Bauer, director of the de-
partment of terrestrial magnetism of the Carnegie
Institution of Washington (U.S.A.), has started a
small job in Australasian waters which will end
in the inspection of the sea routes of all the world,
and the correct charting of their compass varia-
tions. From the South Sea Islands, M.L. and
Australia the eminent scientist will go on to the
Southern Asia seaboard, taking charge of the
non-magnetic yacht Carnegie at Colombo, and
continuing his work until he finishes it in (he
hopes) 1913. Then the Amalgamated Society of
Those Who Go Down to the Sea in Ships is ex-
pected to hold out the tarry hand of appreciation.
Gehr OLsson Seffer, who was shot during
the recent heated argument in Mexico, was a man
who pursued scientific adventure to its farthest
boundary, even unto the interior of the Austra-
lian continent, where, in 1901, he spent six
months. At that time he was only 28, and had
just arrived from his native country, Finland.
Returning from Central Australia, he joined a
sugar plantation near Maryborough (Q.), and
thence moved on to Papua, New Hebrides, the
Solomons, Maoriland and California, where he
was appointed an instructor in the botanical de-
partment of the Leland Stanford University. In
1905 he was under engagement to the U.S.
Government to take up a position in the Philip-
pines, but changed his mind and wheeled into the
rubber boom in Mexico. After he had spent a
few years there as director of a botanical station,
the Mexican Government sent him to Europe and
on through the tropical world for more informa-
tion. When he got back he established a special
experimental rubber station and a publication
entitled The American Journal of Tropical
Agriculture. In between times he had written
numerous books in various European languages,
and had others in view when an insurrectionist’s
bullet found him.
THE IMPOSSIBLE.
“ Did you see the aeroplane? ”
"No. I have on my new hat."
R. J. Cooper, with 30 years’ experience,
speaks out for a “ white ” Northern Territory :
The country is all right. In 50 years I expect to see as
many dairy farms there as there are Chinamen at present.
Cooper recently paid his first visit to Adelaide in
21 years. He reckons he has shot in all about
20,000 buffalo, the hides and horns of which he
ships to England. On three occasions his horse
has been ripped from under him and killed ; but,
up to date, no buffalo has laid violent horns on
Cooper himself.
Denis O’Donovan, a well-known figure in
the champagne days of Bananaland politics, went
over in the ferry the other day. O’Donovan was
Parliamentary Librarian in Brisbane for more
than a quarter of a century, starting in 1874. He
belonged to the prolific family which traces
its descent from the Kings of Munster and
the Plantagenets. But, in spite of his
royal ancestry, he was a man of com-
manding presence and considerable learn-
ing. fie compiled an admirable cata-
logue of his beloved library, and, though
not popular with the type of member
that regards a librarian as a kind of over-
paid message-boy, he was respected by
those who were best able to appreciate
his services. An unsuccessful attempt
was made at one time to have his salary
reduced for his alleged haughtiness. He
was a Fellow of many learned societies in
England and in France (where he spent
the first half of his life, and acquired a
wife) and a Chevalier of the Legion of
Honor. About eight years ago he left
Australia, and was on his way back when he
was taken ill. Landing at Fremantle, he
could go no further, and died aged 77.
This is how the Age informed its readers
that an Australian writer had passed along :
Mr. Thos. K. Spencer, who was widely known as a Past
Grand Master of the Masonic body, died suddenly at
Sydney on Saturday.
As a matter Of fact, Australia knew Thomas
Spencer as the man who wrote “ How M ‘Dougall
Topped the Score,” and had no idea of him as
past, present or future Grand Jam of any
Millinery Society whatever. Possibly the Age
ignored Spencer as a writer, because it did not
want to prejudice his' chance of entering the
business man’s heaven.
This is the story of another miner-hero,
name of Frank Smith, Maorilander. Smith and
Joseph Bates were working on the Round Hill
(Southland, M.L.) Co.’s claim, sinking a paddock,
or hole, in drifting sand, when somehow Bates’s
leg was jambed in the pipe of the big suction
pump which was keeping the shaft clear of water
and sludge. The leg was smashed and the pump
put out of action. Smith, a youngster, just
turned 20, held up the injured man and worked
with a crowbar to wrench open the mouth of the
pipe wide enough to get the broken limb clear.
How long he worked nobody knows, but he held
up his injured mate so long that at last the .rising
slime pinned him as in a quicksand. What fol-
lowed in the dark, with the filth climbing slowly
up their bodies, no man will know nor wish to
know. The midnight shift found their coats
floating on the drift, and when the shaft had been
pumped clear Smith was still holding up his
mate. Where Men go at the finish they had
staked out a new claim together.
Bamford, M.H.R., of Queensland, has
decided that the Coronation will have to get along
without him, so the runner-up in the ballot
(Laird Smith, Tas.) was called on to get himself
ready in a hurry. He was willing, and fled over-
seas by the Omrah. The Speck now cuts a figure
at the Big Fireworks with three politicians, Pre-
mier Lewis, Rep. Smith and Senator Long.
Long, by the way, left for the Fog on April 16,
and was roped in to lunch at Perth by Governor
and Lady Strickland. When Strickland was
Governor of Tas. he expressed much surprise at
the fact that local Labor M’s. L. A. were always
(or nearly always) absent from Government
House functions. The “prior engagement”
excuse is said to have filled the Governor’s soul
with dark suspicions ; but these were dispelled
when a visit of the vice-regalities to the mining
fields of the West Coast discovered “Big Jim”
Long and some of his Parliamentary mates com-
ing off shift and forming up with the party of
welcome at the tunnel-mouth of a mountain mine.
His Ex. then understood why the Tas. Labor
members always had a “ prior engagement ” ;
they had to earn enough during recess to bring
their Parliamentary 38s. 6d. a week up to a living
wage.
E. J. Riddiford, better known as “ Old
Riddiford,” who died in Wellington (M.L.) re-
cently, was 68 years of age when he unhitched
from his pile of wealth and moved on to where
the currency is feathers or fans, according to cir-
cumstance. His father, Daniel Riddiford, was
influential in the first M.L. Land Co., which
founded the settlement at Wellington ; and his
mother for years wrote the dispatches of the co.
E.J., the son, took little part in public affairs,
but he made about 70,000 acres of land get work.
What looks like an art treasure has been
found in Williamstown (Vic.). It appears to be
an original oil portrait of Sir Walter Scott from
the brush of Leslie. Miss Sanders, a daughter of
a Bendigo pioneer, got the portrait from her
father, who in 1830 bought it in Scotland from
Alaric Watts, a publisher and a minor poet of
Edinburgh. Watts appears to have got it from
his friend Constable, Scott’s publisher. It is
stated that the only other original portrait of
Scott is in the Boston Museum.
A TWO-EDGED SWORD.
At the Baptist Conference, the chairman urged
that employment be found for young people in their
leisure hours. Their working hours were too short,
and when evening came on their vigor was unabated,
and led them into danger.— News Item.
THE O PTIMIST (after the reform): "They're
too exhausted vow to get into any trouble.”
THE PESSIMIST: “ Steady , brother; perhaps
they'll be too tired to come to church!”
John Fuller, who is replacing Carmichael
as Governor of Victoria, is a Primitive Methodist,
and proudly proclaims the fact that he is directly
descended from Oliver Cromwell, “the most
commanding Methodist that England has ever
seen.” Melbourne Methodies, of course, are
deeply stirred by this intelligence, and hope soon
to see 1 lis Ex. biting a bun or basking in the smile
of a middle-aged sandwich.
BOY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A boy is the most vicious of all wild beasts.— Plato ,
quoted by Emerson.
The boys were playing at Red Indians ; and one, eight
years old, was to undergo torture without flinching. His
companions wrapped paper round him and set it on fire.
He died of his burns. — Press Cables (10/5/’ll).
Now, if you take a tiger and a panther and a crow,
And mix them in their pastimes of most unholy joy,
The mixture is a lamb beside the worst of heasts below—
Which is a Bo3’.
To strew a bed with cow-itch till the sleepless wretch
goes mad,
To wreck a house with dynamite on purpose to annoy—
These are the wayward fancies of a fiend “not Really
Bad,
But Just a Boy.”
lie’ll scatter logs on railway lines “to see the train tip
up,”
He’ll mix the baby’s gruel with the substance known
as gloy,
And if a family perishes through Poison in the Cup—
Cherchez le Boy.
1 love my fellow-creatures, and I like to see the sun
Go down on some unselfish deed that’s quite without
alloy;
And if I stuck to principles, I'd daily take my gun
And shoot a Boy.
VICTORIA.
L.
SPARTAK WILLIE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
One may say without reserve of any sort that there is
probably no more important movement in Australia, at
any rate amongst the very young people, than this Scout
movement. — Extraordinary statement made to a bunch
of Boy Scouts at Malvern (Vie.) by Chief Justice
Madden.
When Little Willie goes to war across the Malvern hills,
Mooching along the tram-track in his stick and colored
frills,
He moves with vast importance, in exceeding bright
array,
A mumma’s-angel, fat of head, flag-flapping all the way.
When Willie wears his uniform his chest is pigeon-stout,
Bearing the red, white, blue and pink insignia of the
Scout;
Feathers and frills and furbelows, and flags and fluff and
fuss —
Yes, that’s the stuff ! We'll make a man of Little Willie
thus!
VICTORIA.
FRANK HENTY.


JH\
I
&
at#
i
$
■a-r,
< i-v
%
r>^
3
as*
m
y-tP
I
§
@i J
1
*s
um
L
id
P
cm
“The Austral.”
*
There is nothing better. It is the utmost
development of our experience, extending
down the years since 1868. We quote 63s.,
70s., 75s. machine made, or 84s., 90s., 95s.,
105s. hand made, and, on receipt of a post-
card, will send you full range of patterns
with self-measurement forms.
Gowing Bros.,
Pioneer Distributors of Australian Goods,
486, 488, 490 George Street; and
7, 9, 11, 13, 15 and 17 Royal
Arcade, Sydney.


ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER & CO.,
CIRCULAR QUAY (EAST), SYDNEY.
Specialise in “ROBEY” Portable Steam Engines and Traction Engines,
“NATIONAL” Gas Engines and SUCTION Plants, “ ROBEY=
LEPLASTRIER ” Roadmaking Plants, Light TRAMWAY Material, etc.
The WILD CAT
The Australian Mutual Provident Society :
ORDINARY DEPARTMENT.
Written
Off , or
Provided
Against Added
Total Ex- Depre- to
Income. Claims. penses. oiation. Funds.
1898.. £2,152,177 £1,223,261 £197,977 £31,468 £699,471
1899.. 2,243,644 1,104,551 223,942 19,461 895,690
1900.. 2,364,216 1,178,107 213,268 17,737 955,104
1901.. 2,456,389 1,389,051 208,749' 23,920 834,669
1902.. 2,509,729 1,355,073 218,394 21,663 914,599
1903.. 2,598,809 1,451,680 229,987 21,832 895,310
1904.. 2,687,155 1,519,890 237,293 37,260 892,712
1905.. 2,794,231 1,642,341 245,242 38,7011 aw „, 7
Aid to Industrial Department 12,000/ ‘
1906.. 2,932,755 1,645,681 259,769 29,818 1 QQft v , ( .
Aid to Industrial Department 6,741/ " ’
1907.. 3,086,216 1,738,804 272,267 42,475 1,032,670
1908.. 3,184,488 1,781,750 285,804 40,714 1,076,220
1909.. 3,337,426 1,875,516 296,585 30,947 1,134,378
1910.. 3,492,096 1,841,184 291,775 36,366 1,322,771
The old A.M.P. has had another excellent year. In
almost every particular an improvement is shown.
Not only is the total income larger than ever it was,
but, much more significant, a larger amount of new
business has been got than in any previous year, and
the cost of getting that business is very much under
the A.M.P.’s own average. It is fairly clear that
the keener competition which the office has to meet
nowadays has done the A.M.P. good. It really had
too big a start and too easy a time: it was a case
of Eclipse first, the rest nowhere —especially in the
eyes of those who are attracted by big figures. Then
came the wonderfully well organised Citizens’, which
to its splendid organisation presently added the fig-
ures and tremendous respectability of the M.L.A.
and Widows’ Fund, with which it amalgamated.
That combination made the A.M.P. sit up and look
round —indeed, the progress of the Citizens’ had be-
gun to make it do that before the amalgamation
took place. It has been good for everybody, though
possibly the staff has so far benefited least. Still
that will come. When an office or any other busi-
ness has to fight, the good man and the trier get
a chance. The concern can’t afford to throw them
away. When it hasn’t got to fight, merit is less
liable to count.
The expenses shown in the first table are less
than those for 1909, in spite of the bigger business.
That, however, requires a word. In 1909 the staff
got a “diamond jubilee” bonus ( £8047), so if that
special outlay is disregarded there hasn’t been a
positive shrinkage. Still, in proportion to total in-
come, there has been a very substantial reduction.
This shows recent averages -
Expenses Compared with Total Income.
1901 .. £8 10 0 per cent. 1906 .. £8 17 2 per cent.
1902 .. 814 0 ~ 1907 .. 816 5
1903 .. 817 0 „ 1908 .. 819 6 „
1904 .. 8 16 7 „ 1909 .. 8 12 11 „
1905 .. 815 6 ~ 1910 .. 8 7 1 „
Policy-holders may well congratulate the manage-
ment upon the year’s figures in this connection. The
mean expense rate for the previous five years was £ 8
16s. 3d. p.c. ; so the saving last year was only a
few pence less than 4 p.c. The total income for
the year was £3,492,096 ; and J p.c. on that is
£17,460. So the reduction in last year’s expense
rate, other things being equal, means that another
£17,460 becomes available for bonuses. And that
is equal to just over 15s. p.c. of the premiums.
Certainly, any method of calculating expenses on
total income is clumsy, and, for comparative pur-
poses, is, moreover, to the advantage of the office
which, being old-established, has a large accumula-
tion of funds and a large income from interest. Also,
much depends upon how much money an office is
spending in the expensive pursuit of new business.
Obviously, an office which didn’t chase business could
work at a very low rate; for the -actual commis-
sions on new business account for about 25 p.c. of
the total expenses. In the following table an at-
tempt is made to show the varying cost of new
policies. The renewal business is charged 7 p.c.;
annuity and single-premium business is charged 3
p.c.; and then the balance of the expenses is as-
sumed to be the cost of the new business:—
Renewal New Ex- Newßusi-
Premiums. Premiums. penses. ness Cost.
1877.. £353,345 £33,951 £58,905 99 6 p.c.
1887.. 837,164 103,694 131,591 70'1 „
1897.. 1,220,405 105,788 179,215 87‘4 „
1907.. 1,791,403 163,348 272,267 85'6 „
1908.. 1,868,208 166,640 285,804 91‘9 „
1909.. 1,944,035 168,972 296,555 88'8 „
1910.. 2,022,470 185,559 291,775 79'8 „
The reduction shown in the past three years is very
remarkable. Probably no one thing has produced
it; a dozen influences may have been at work —the
great prosperity of the country, and the abundance of
money, the general rousing-up already alluded to,
and especially the establishment of an Industrial
branch as a feeder for this Ordinary department.
Anyhow, one way and another, the figures are ex-
cellent —provided that they haven’t been accomplished
at the expense of the men who have worked to pro-
duce them. On that point it would certainly be
worth the management’s while to make some very
careful inquiries. The Bulletin gets a good many
hundreds of groans poured into its ear during a
twelve-month, and the groans from and on behalf of
A.M.P. men have been recently too numerous to be
pleasant.
The rate of interest earnings shows practically no
change from that of the previous year:—
Interest Realised on Average Funds.
1901.. ..£4 9 7 p.c. 1906.. ..£4 9 7p.c.
1902.. .. 4 9 6 „ 1907.. .. 4 911 „
1903.. .. 4 810 ~ 1908.. .. 4 9 4 „
1904.. .. 4 9 0 „ 1909.. .. 4 9 8 „
1905.. .. 4 9 8 „ 1910.. .. 4 9 8 „
The funds for the purpose of this calculation in-
clude the reserve for the depreciation of securities.
Unfortunately this reserve has been draw-n upon
rather heavily during the year. Twelve months ago
it stood at £97,631, and though £6798 has been
transferred to it (in addition to £9096 written off
foreclosed properties), it has shrunk to £58,182.
In view of the fact that the assets amount to
£27,425,435, this depreciation reserve is. wretchedly
small. The revenue account was swollen last year
to the extent of £26,163 by surpluses on the sale of
foreclosed properties. It would be much more satis-
factory if all such surpluses were, as a matter of
policy, turned over at once to the depreciation fund.
Without a substantial reserve of that character
bonuses must suffer in the event of any quite pos-
sible serious shrinkage in the value of securities;
and the experience of the M.L.A. and Widows’ Fund
shows how bad a blow a contraction of bonuses
amounts to. It is satisfactory to note that the
management has appropriated some of the year’s
profits to strengthen this reserve.
The A.M.P. makes an annual valuation and de-
clares an annual bonus. The surplus for the year
was £1,039,602, as against £891,992 for 1909, and
£537,894 for 1900. It is proposed to put aside
£170,000 for contingencies—a most prudent thing
to do, for the reason mentioned above——and there
will still be £839,602 available for division. This
will allow of a bonus of 38.4 p.c. of premiums re-
ceived —a division which compares with that of past
years like this: —
18SS-1893 (boom years) 40'3 p.c. of premiums
1894-1898 .. .. 34T „
1898-1903 .. .. 34-8 „ „
1903-1906 .. .. 35-7 „ „
1907 .. .. 36T ~ „
1908 .. .. 36-4 „
1909 .. .. 36-5 ~
1910 .. .. 38-4 „
“It may be fairly claimed,” says General-Manager
Teece, “that the past jmar has been the most suc-
cessful in the history of the society.” It is always
risky to take the figures of a boom period and build
castles upon them, because one never knows what
losses may be made by investments taken at a boom
valuation. With that reservation, this paper says
“Hear, hear” to the manager’s remark, and throws
its bouquet on to the platform.
INDUSTRIAL DEPARTMENT.
Added to Added to
Income. Claims. Expenses. Deficit. Funds.
1905.. £6,123 £124 £19,069 £13,070
1906.. 18,610 669 23,572 5,631
1907.. 34,551 1689 30,663 £2,199
1908.. 54,284 2584 36,018 15,682
1909.. 77,723 2821 43,488 31,414
1910.. 105.438 4189 51,639 49,610
According to that reckoning the total funds in this
new department should be now £80,204. A total
of £18,742 was, however, advanced by the Ordinary
department; and apparently that debt has been for-
given. Anyhow, it doesn’t appear among the Indus-
trial department’s liabilities or the Ordinary depart-
ment’s assets; hence the total funds of the industrial
department are represented as £80,204, plus
£18,742 ; total, £98,946. The claims so far have
been extraordinarily small, and the progress of this
part of the business has been extraordinarily rapid.
Still, it is never much use comparing the Industrial
figures of any two societies or companies. One
office, for example, counts as Industrial policies
what another office would regard as Ordinary poli-
cies. The A.M.P.’s Industrial policy is much larger
than that of perhaps any other office ; the average is
about £33 per policy. It isn’t merely that larger
policies are written in this department; other offices
collect smaller premiums than this one will look at.
This, of course, also affects the expense rate in the
way of reducing it. Nevertheless, the rate is still
very high; it amounted to £4B 19s. p.c. of the
total income last year. It is a deplorable outlay;
it means that over 50 p.c. of the total amount paid
in premiums went in expenses. Presumably the
A.M.P., like other well-conducted offices, uses every
effort to encourage the Industrial policy-holder to
transfer to the Ordinary, and save some of this ap-
palling waste in shoe-leather and wear and tear of
tongue. It is hardly to be wondered at that a shock-
ing proportion of the policies lapse; in spite of
the small amount paid out in claims (only about
£lO,OOO since the department was founded), policies
assuring £1,389,174 have become void —that is to
say, have either lapsed or become claims. This
tremendous lapse rate goes a long way towards
making the business so expensive, because of every
three policies captured at great expense one lapses
within a few months, and that, too, in a period of
great industrial prosperity. The A.M.P. has done the
proper thing in offering what facilities it can for
this working-man insurance; but one can’t consider
the figures without being forced to the conclusion
that nothing short of universal and compulsory in-
surance—which, of course, means State insurance—
will meet the case.
The Australian Mutual Fire Insurance
Society (now Ltd.), of Sydney :
Bonus
to Added Total
Policy- to Re-
Mar., Profits. Dividends, holders. Funds, serves.
1899.. £17,530 24 p.c. = £6,055 £4055 £7,420 £116,099
£12,500 Reserves transferred to Capital .. 103,599
1900.. 17,213 18J p.c. = 7,087 4087 6,039 109,638
1901.. 19,963 18if ~ „ 7,036 4036 8,891 118,529
£12,500 Reserves transferred to Capital .. 106,029
1902.. 17,952 16J p.c. = 8,224 4224 5,504 111,533
1903.. 17,184 164 „ „ 8,248 4248 4,688 116,221
1904.. 23,313 16J ~ „ 8,290 4290 10.733 126,954
£12,500 Reserves transferred to Capital .. 114,454
1905.. 21,447 14f p.c. = 9,312 4312 7,823 122.277
1906.. 20,403 14| .. ~ 9,262 4262 6,879 129,156
1907.. 21,562 14f „ ~ 9,237 4238 8,087 137,243
£12,500 Reserves trinsferred to Capital .. 124,743
1908.. 21,230 14 p.c. = 10,430 4430 6,370 131,113
1909.. 18,277 14 ~ ~10,553 4553 3,171 134,284
1910.. 22,337 14§ „ ~ 10,983 4984 6,370 140,654
£15,000 Reserves transferred to Capital .. 125,654
1911.. 24,005 13J p.c. = 12,040 5140 6,825 132^479
A fire insurance co. is a good deal like a fire. It
isn’t very much trouble to start either of them in
a small way; but most of them get put out before
they go very far. Once, though, they have got a
hold it is hard work to put them out. The bigger
they get the easier it is for them to get still bigger.
But they begin to differ when they have grown big.
No matter how big a fire gets, the efforts to beat it
never stop. With a fire-insurance co., there isn’t
this struggle. Those who are in the same business
say, “Well, let us pull together.” So they fix up
tariffs, and, though they do break aw r ay here and
there and now and then, mostly they are very good
friends, indeed. This co. was one of the lucky ones
that didn’t get put out in infancy. It started in
1872 with the very modest capital of £6250. It
was scarcely more than a lucifer match in those days.
But it fed itself with some nice dry shavings. After
paying its shareholders 8 p.c., it undertook to cut
up the balance of the profits equally between policy-
holders and shareholders. Hence the “mutual.” The
bonus or rebate is nowadays practically universal;
but this co. got in early, and reaped the reward.
Clearly it was to shareholders’ advantage, since they
take a first bite of 8 p.c. on capital, to transfer re-
serves to capital; for they get no interest on the
reserves. By 1890 the capital had, therefore, been
doubled; between 1890 and 1911 it has been gradu-
ally increased to £90,000. And still reserves haven’t
been bled white; they amount, as shown above, to
£132,749, or nearly 14 times the watered capital.
The co.’s loss rate is extraordinarily small, and
always has been so. This, no doubt, arises mainly
from a very careful selection of risks. That, of
course, means extra expense; but still it cuts down
the losses so severely that the underwriting profit,
or margin between losses and expenses on the one
side and premiums on the other, is invariably large.
This shows the co.’s experience:—
Pre- Ex- Loss Expense
miums. Losses, penses. Rate. Rate.
1895.. £29,416 £6,717 £12,828 22'8 p.c. 43-6 p.c.
1900.. 33,888 8,131 13,765 24’0 ~ 407
1905.. 36,088 7,149 15,009 19‘8 „ 41*6 ,
1908.. 37,462 7,710 16,818 20'6 ~ 44-9 „
1909.. 38,824 11,223 18,170 28’9 „ 46’8 ~
1910.. 41,845 9,890 18,748 23'6 „ 44'8 ~
1911.. 43,459 11,039 17,760 25’4 „ 40‘9 „
The co. had some non-recurring expenses in the
previous two or three years; it converted itself, for
example, into a limited liability co., and it also
organised agencies to deal with various side-lines
in insurance. The rate for the past year is probably
nearer the normal. From the insurers’ point of view,
the position is very strong indeed; capital and re-
serves combined are five times greater than the year’s
premiums (which may be taken as the measure of
the current risks), whereas the funds of British
offices are, on the average, less than twice greater
than the year’s premiums. The investments are re-
presented by property and mortgages (£168,200),
and deposits (£63,028) ; and on the average a re-
turn of about 41 p.c. is shown —more than enough
to pay 10 p.c. on the capital. The authorised capital
is £200,000 ; of that, as mentioned above, £90,000
is now paid up.
* * * *
The Trustees, Executors and Agency Co.,
of Maoriland (Dunedin) :
To Re- Re-
Mar., Profits. . Dividends. serve*, serves.
1902 .. £1370 9 per cent. = £9OO £470 £5,180
1903 .. 1365 10 „ ~ 1000 365 5,545
1904 .. 2234 12 ~ „ 1200 1034 6,579
1905 .. 4138 15 ~ ~ 1500 2638 9,217
1906 .. 2880 15 „ ~ 1500 1380 10,597
1907 .. 1697 15 „ ~ 1500 197 10,794
1908 .. 1880 15 ~ ~ 1500 380 11,174
1909 . . 1847 15 ~ „ 1500 347 11,521
1910 .. 2185 15 „ „ 1500 685 12,206
1911 .. 1880 15 ~ ~ 1500 380 12,586
The manager’s commission has been deducted from
the profits in the foregoing statement. The profit
column is as full of bumps as a Sydney footpath. In
1905 the net earnings were £4138 —about 31 times
more than they were in 1903, and more than double
what they were in the past year. “Agency and
commission” receipts vary so much that, apparently,
the income from the corpus of trust estates is taken
credit for in lumps. As usual, this trustee eo.
makes two charges—one on the capital value of
estates; the other on the income while the estate
is being administered. Suppose the estate is worth
£15,000, and brings in 4 p.c. as an average. The
co., for administering the estate, under will, charges,
first, £250 (2J p.c. for the first £5OOO, 11 p.c. for
the second £5OOO, and thereafter 1 p.c.). Then,
year by year, it charges 5 p.c. on the first £5OO of
income and 21 p.c. on the balance = £27 10s. per
annum. There are, however, special charges under
special circumstances. Obviously, in the ordinary
case just mentioned, if the £250 is taken credit
for in a lump, the profits from year to year are liable
to vary greatly; inasmuch as in one year half a
dozen big estates may happen to fall into the co.’s
hands, and in the next year only one or two. It is
much better and fairer to spread out the corpus com-
mission over the term of years which it is expected
that the estate will take to wind up. But, since
that is often not done, very little attention need be
paid to a trustee co.’s accounts for one year—-they
must be viewed over a range of years. So far as the
client, or prospective client, is concerned, he needs
to know two things—(l) “What would my estate have
to pay for the co.’s services?” (2) “What security
have I got that the co. will go straight when I am
too dead to kick even if it is inclined to go crooked?”
The amount at credit of trust estates on March 31
was £1,626,424. Agency and commission charges
were £4079 =an almost exact ss. p.c. of the capital
value. Assuming that all the agency and commission
income was from trust estates, this means that the
average charge works out at ss. p.c. p.a.—which is
extraordinarily moderate, considering the expert ser-
vices that a trustee co. renders. Then as to security.
First, this co. is in the trustee business; it has to
make its living by it. In that respect it differs
from the unprofessional trustee, who may make a
mess of any trustee business he takes in hand, and
still not suffer in his income or prospects. Then it
has put up a capital of £lO,OOO, and has £12,586
of reserves besides; also, it has £40,000 of un-
called capital to come on in case it or its officers
make a bad break. That, then, represents the
security offered. _ The paid capital and reserves are
almost wholly in “mortgages, debentures and de-
posits.” It isn’t a satisfactory definition; still they
are, apparently, bringing in very excellent interest
(£lll5 last year). It is this profitable investment
of big reserves which makes it possible to pay as
much as 15 p.c. on the capital, while still putting a
fairly substantial sum by.
* * * *
The Townsville Gas and Coke Co. (Q.): —
Dividend and Written To Re- Re-
Mar., Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves.
1901.. —12 J = £1969 £3953
1902 .. £3505 10 „ „ 1575 £1930 5883
1903 .. 3466 10 ~ ~ 1575 £lBO2 89 5972
1904.. 3705 10 ~ „ 1575 2130 8102
1905 .. 3751 10 ~ „ 1575 1691 485 8587
1906.. 3504 12J ~ ~ 1969 1335- 200 8787
1907.. 3738 12j ~ ~ 1969 1299 470 9257
£7500 of Reserves Capitalised .. 1757
1908 .. 3390 10 p.c. = 1643 375 1372 3129
1909.. 3715 10 ~ „ 2614 1000 101 3230
Premiums on shares .. .. 96 3326
1910.. 4156 10 p.c. = 2625 531 4857
1911 .. 5549 12£ „ „ 3670 2000 4736
These accounts are not as well presented as they
might be. Twelve months ago £lOOO was appro-
priated out of profits “for new retort ovens, etc.”
Under ordinary circumstances that amount would
not again figure in the balance-sheet; it would be
written off altogether. At the most, if it wasn’t
entirely written off, it would figure as a special re-
serve. Apparently, however, it has been added to
the formal reserve fund. In the same way £2OOO
has been this year appropriated to cover depreciation
of plant. It remains to be seen now what the co.
will do with that —write it off, or add it to reserves.
If the latter, then the reserve fund won’t be a re-
serve fund at all; more or less of it will be merely
deadweight, representing nothing but rust and decay.
These uncertainties don’t add to the confidence with
which one goes to work on the post-mortem. How-
ever, as far as one can tell, the co. is doing much
better business. Dirty, untidy Townsville—which
was going to die when the North lost its Tommy
Tanna —has “bucked up” wonderfully. It is the port
of- a huge district, served by a main-line railway
which crawls out past Chatters Towers and Hughen-
den to Cloncurry. Good seasons and good prices in
the pastoral industry have much more than atoned
for the depression on the Charters Towers goldfield.
And then the wonderful Ayr sugar-growing district
has added its little bit to Townsville’s new pros-
perity. So the gas co. has been doing well, and now
feels itself in a position to reduce its charges. Its
present capital is £29,936; it owes only a few
pounds in trade debts; and it has over £5OOO
liquid. The point about which one can’t be sure is
as to whether it is writing off and putting by enough
to cover depreciation.
* * * *
The Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Co. :
Dividrnds and Written
Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. Deficit.
Sept., 1903.. £2,048
Reserves.
Mar., 1904.. £115,172 Nil 113,124
Sept.-1904.. 129,502 12J p.c. = £78,780 163,846
Mar., 1905.. 161,755 12 ~ „ 78,750 £8,764 238,087
Sept., 1905.. 201,985 12£ ~ ~ 78,750 9,021 352,301
Mar., 1906.. 267,795 20 „ ~ 126,000 8,713 485,383
Sept., 1906.. 251,095 25 ~ ~ 157,500 10,071 568,907
Mar., 1907.. 282,938 32£ „ ~205,074 11,515 635,256
Sept., 1907.. 150,625 35 „ ~220,551 11,740 553,590
Mar., 1908.. 141,730 20 „ ~ 126,168 9,723 559,429
Sept., 1908.. 168,130 17£ „ ~110,364 12,006 605,189
Mar., 1909.. 141,683 174 „ ~110,372 10,153 626,347
Sept., 1909.. 155,051 17£ „ ~ 110,300 9,930 661,198
Mar., 1910.. 131,506 17£ ~ ~ 111,094 10,076 671,534
Sept., 1910.. 106,274 1?| ~ ~110,594 10,147 657,067
Mar., 1911.. 100,022 121 ~ „ 79,282 9,964 667,843
This co. is an amalgamation of the Mount Lyell and
the North Lyell; and the union has been a splendid
success. Neither could do much, if anything, without
the other; the Lyell wanted the North’s rich ore, and
the North wanted the Lyell’s fluxing ore. What was
originally in doubt was whether the North’s ore
would last out the other. There is little question now
on that score; for the developments in the North
have been very fine indeed. At the first measuring-
up, a few months after the amalgamation in 1903,
Lyell had 4,495,310 tons, and the North had
170,494 tons. Since then nearly 900,000 tons
have been taken out of the North Lyell, and
the present estimate of ore reserves in the mine is
947,519 tons, with 2,601,297 tons in the Lyell, from
which something like 1,800,000 tons have been taken
since that first estimate was made. The average
mixture has been two tons of Lyell ore to one ton of
North ore; but it is now judged safe, as it is also
practicable, to increase the proportion of North ore.
The result, of course, is an increase in the average
copper value of ore treated, although that is partly
counterbalanced by an increase in smelting costs.
Total costs are still, however, wonderfully low—
17s. Bd. per ton, including 7s. 101 d. for mining,
Bs. 7|d. for smelting, and Is. 2d. for converting.
Smelting costs have increased by upwards of Is.
during the past couple of years. This is mainly due
to the larger quantity of coke called for ; and that,
again, has compelled the co. to add to its ovens on
the South Coast of N. S. Wales. It is worth while
observing that, though it might buy coke, this eo.,
like the Broken Hill Prop., prefers to make its own
furnace fuel. Somebody else’s Private Enterprise
may be an excellent thing; but these big cos. refuse
to depend upon it. On exactly the same principle
the N. S. Wales Works Department is ■ justified in
its establishment of brickworks; and the Railway
Department ought to have its own coal mines.
After writing off £9964 for depreciation, and de-
ducting £4282 for dividend and income taxes, the
disclosed profit was £85,776. The actual profit was
higher. The co. takes credit to the extent of only
£5O per ton for the copper in hand ; and there was
409 tons more on hand at the close of the half-year
than at the commencement. Close upon £3OOO sur-
plus would, no doubt, be received upon this 409 tons.
Even then, however, a shrinkage in profits would be
shown. This is due chiefly to the falling off in gold
and silver contents. Down to the end of September,
1910, the total output since the amalgamation
(August, 1903) was 59,809 tons copper, 5,130,7750 z.
silver, 137,9900 z. gold. That means 85oz. silver and
2.30 z gold per ton of copper. For the past six
months the converter results were—4o63 tons copper
298,4580 z. silver and 53570 z. gold, equal to only
<3oz. silver and 1.30 z. gold per ton of copper. There
never was much gold worth mentioning in the North
Lyell—the average has been 48oz. in 10,000 tons—
but the Lyell gold value has now shrunk about 50
p.c. below the average for the whole period of the
co. s operations.
The co. has treated :■ —-
Mt. Lyell ore .. .. 2,090,222 tons
North Lyell ore .. .. 921,570
There remain in reserve :
Mt. Lyell ore .. .. 2,211,278 tons
North Lyell ore .. .. 947,519 ~
The total amount paid in divs. to the end of March
was £1,620,000, or 275. per share. On ore figures,
there ought thus to be more than 275. showing in the
mine. But this paper isn’t prepared to say that the
ore in the mine will pay as well as the ore that has
been taken out. Much depends on the copper market
in 12 months (1906-7) no less than 6s. 9d. per share
was paid_ ( £405,000) ; and that sort of copper boom
doesn t happen often. Also, the shrinkage in the
gold and silver contents is a factor to be taken into
Still, the bottom hasn’t been reached in the
North Lyell yet, and something unknown has to be
added on that account.
And there are other things. The co. is now a
larg:e manufacturer of superphosphates. What this
business is worth it doesn’t even whisper. “Blister
copper and superphosphates accounts” are carefully
combined, so that no inkling shall be got about the
facts of the manure business, in which the co. has
sunk £200,000 for works alone (present book value,
£189,567). Also it has an eye open for other
mining properties, although, so far, it doesn’t seem
to have alighted on anything that will much more
than give William Knox’s old resurrected shay an-
other coat of paint.
* * * *
The Zinc Corporation, formed in 1905, to make
millions out of the Broken Hill ore after the silver
and lead have been skimmed from it: —
Divs. (Pref. Written
Loss. Shares). Off. Deficit.
Psb., 1906 .. £4,499 £4 499
Aug., 1906 .. 7,981 12’,450
_ * Reserves.
Premiums on new shares, £28,333 15,853
tk u , Deficit.
Feb., 1907 .. 13,841 28,333 26,321
*eb., 1908 .. 22,901 35,932 85,154
Profit.
Dec., 1908 .. 25,504 59,650
Capital written off, £29,650 3o’ooo
Reserves.
Dec., 1909 .. 116,910 £44,756 21,043 21,111
Dec., 1910 .. 119,373 89,513 21,467 29,504
It is mentioned in the table that £29,650 of capital
was written off; but that wasn’t the total by any
““'i' a t Lee., 1908, the paid capital was
£602,158; then this happened:—■
Capital (Dec., 1908) .. .. £602,158
New pref. capital .. .. 30,000
r ... , , £632,158
Less written off public s ordinary
shares £74,626
„ written off promoters’ or-
dinary shares .. .. 16,000
90,626
Capital at present .. .. .. £541,532
That total of £90,626 written off was disposed of
this way:—
Written off tailings dumps, etc. .. .. £l7 374
Written off plant, buildings, etc. . . .. 41’,602
Profit and loss Dr. balance wiped out .. 29’650
Unspecified .. .. . # # 2 090
Total £90,626
Still it was a mere book-keeping writing off —a bogus
and make-believe affaib—since, thougn the ordin-
aries were nominally reduced from 20s. to 165., they
carry dividend and other rights as though they had
not been reduced. Mention, it will be seen, has been
made of a late issue of pref. shares. There are peo-
pie who always sniff when that and previous pref
issues are mentioned. The works had been a shock-
ing disappointment in their early days, and there
was no telling where the co. would land. Shares
got down to a few shillings. More capital was
wanted, and prefs. were issued on extraordinary
terms. First, they were to get 20s. in the £of
t T. ca P ltal back; then they were to get a pref. div.
of 20 p.c.; then they were to rank alike with the
ordinaries for dividend. As it happened, the tide
tinned almost at once. And of course there have
ever since been people—some of them holders of or-
dinary shares —who have been asking, “Did the peo-
Pj? who stood benind the pref. issues know any-
thmg ? If they didn’t it was a wonderfully lucky
The prefs. total £179,026, so they have first to get
their £179,026; and very rapid progress has been
made with the payments. To the end of 1910
£134,269 had been paid, and £22,378 (2s. 6d. per
share) has been coming along quarterly; one half-
crown was paid in March, and with the next little
lot the full 20s. will have been paid. Then the or-
dinaries may begin to get a look in. The 20 p.c.
on prefs. will only call for £35,805 a year; and on
the record of the past couple of years there ought
to be another £45,000 or £50,000 to divide beyond
that. (That would run to about Is. 6d. per share.)
But it is not safe to assume that future profits—at
any rate, per ton of zinc tailings—will be equal to
past profits. This remark in the manager’s report
is significant: “To counteract the reduction in grade
of tailings consequent upon the exhaustion of the
high-grade Block 10 dumps, the monthly tonnage is
being increased to approximately 30,000 tons.” The
average for the past year has been 22,550 tons,
starting with 19,460 in January, and ending with
26,985 in December. Also various modifications
have to be made in the plant. The truth is that,
as usual, the co. ate the richest and most tractable
material first, and has now to turn to something
more nearly approaching the husks that the swine did
eat. Unfortunately no improvements have been
made in the process to counterbalance this shrinkage
in the value of the material handled.
The co. paid £67,659 for the tailings it treated
last year, and it has in dumps a total of £368,097
(purchase price) still to treat; also, in addition, ap-
parently, it has the right to pay about £133,056 to
the B. H. South for tailings bought under a special
agreement. Assuming that a fair amortization
charge has been made for the year’s meal of tailings,
then there is about 51 years’ supply in the dumps,
apart from the South’s lot. But the meal will now
be bigger, without increasing the output of metals;
so that the food will be eaten before 51 years. There
will be the South tailings in addition; and there
will be any other dumps that the co. may buy. But
it is quite clear that it won’t be able to buy them on
the old terms. Mining cos. won’t sell for £67,659
any more tailings out of which this co. may make a
net profit of £98,000.
* * * *
Apparently with the object of prolong-
ing its life, the Zinc Corporation has been negotiat-
ing with the South Blocks, and the latter will no
doubt be absorbed. The basis proposed is that the


PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (Limited),
SPECIALLY CONSTITUTED
TO ACT AS
Trustees, Executors,
Administrators,
Attorneys under
Power, Agents, etc.
Efficient and Economical Management
combined with Absolute Security.
Trust Funds to Lend
at from 4 per cent.
2, 4 and 6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
A. J. MACKENZIE,
Write or Call for Booklet. Manager,
GREENING'S
SCREENING.
Agate Steet, Phosphor,
Bronze, Brass.
Write for particulars to
FRASER & CHALMERS LTD.,
Equitable Building, Melbourne;
Macdonald Street, Kalgoorlie;
New Zealand: 0. M. DAVIS, Agent, Hall of
Commerce, High Street, Auckland. [2
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
South Blocks shareholder shali get one
share for each Blocks share, plus one prel. snare io
gamation ought to mean a trifle* more econ * y.
32"“*. as
XfiS M.« .'e’VS
and for each two thus applied and paid for heMisto
o-et a bonus share. Thus the holder of 60 contriDS.
lets his holding paid up, P lusl J
£lOl n lns five free shares; total 75, at a cost ox
£l9,’instead of 90 at a cost of £2O as previously
alleged. t * *
A man who has got into a fairly strenu-
ous existence among bulls and bears, though he
doesn’t profess to be able to tame those wild animals,
is E. L’Estrange, secretary of the Sydney Stock Ev
change. Having decided to take a rest froin the
job, he was, the other day, bailed up by the hard-
headed brotherhood and unanimously presented with
something more solid than a prospectus. L Estrange
has seen 23 years’ service on Change. When he
started it was a small affair under the wing of the
Royal Exchange, but after a while the fledgling flew
off, and finally, 10 years ago, built its present nest
in Pitt-street. . *
* * *
The reformed Vegetable Creek Tin Co.,
working near Emmaville (N.S-.W.), is getting more
encouragement from development work, and has
from 2ft. to 3ft. of washdirt in the crosscut started
236 ft. along the leading drive. Some of the dirt is
estimated to go as high as 1601 b. of stream tin to
the cubic yard, which will help to pay expenses
while a good deal of shaft-sinking and crosscutting
is being done. Though the overweighted co. pre-
viously got water-logged, prospects are quite good
enough to command a call or two should the pro-
gramme of development demand that help.
* * * *
Y-Waterholes —a Melbourne co. working
alluvial tin at. Emmaville (N.S.W.) —has declared its
second dividend of Is. per share. (There are
90,000 shares.) It is reckoned that the dirt will
yield 1.341 b. per cubic yard, and that 100 cubic
yards per hour can be sluiced, which, of course,
means 1341 b. of tin per hour —better than the
general average of such a fashionable tin proposi-
tion as Tongkah Harbor. What has made for success
is the increased quantity of dirt put through and the
improved recovery of fine tin, both the results of
skilful engineering.
* * * *
Scantlebury, skipper of the Amalgamated
Hill End (N.S.W.), struck another snag the other
day just when he thought he was in the fairway,
with a smooth passage ahead: when he turned up to
register his co. he found that some very clever gen-
tlemen had pushed in ahead, and a day or two
previously had registered their concern as the Amal-
gamated Hill End. Apparently Scantlebury has no
legal redress; it looks as though he will have to go
to some expense and change the/title of his*co.
The proposed amalgamation of B. H.
Junction North and Junction having fallen through,
the British and Junction people are now colloguing.
They are neighbors. The first proposed amalgamation
would have been best; the one at present in contem-
plation is the second-best, and is much to be desired.
Re par. concerning the Tottenham
(N.S.W.) copper amalgamation (B. 11/5/’ll). A
nought was dropped in stating the assay of the
Tottenham ores. They actually show 4 p.c. copper,
40 p.c. iron, 40 p.c. sulphur, and 7 p.c. silica.
D. L. Doolette has spoken and given
shareholders the tip about the Bullfinch Proprietary.
Among other things a lot of cash is to be expended
in systematic development, and all going well the
dividend stage should be reached in two or three
years from now. The question of treatment plant
is to be shelved until something definite is known
about the nature of the sulphides in the mine, and a
very good plan too. ’Most everybody who knows
anything about the Yilgarn field expects that the
Bullfinch sulphides will be a bit of nuisance to deal
with, and the finding of azurite specimens on the sur-
face of the property has given rise to the suspicion
that copper will be found associated with the ore in
depth. In that case a big sum of money will be
wanted for plant, to say nothing of the cash mopped
up in development; but the co. ought easily to be
able to pull through without flying any kites.
Bullrush Co. is the latest Bullfinch con-
cern to button up and look around for a property
elsewhere. For the past few months it has been
trying its luck on 12 leases, but, like nearly every-
thing else at Tooletteville they all appear to be
worthless. The Bullrush was floated shortly after
the “Enough, Enough” trench was dug out on the
Chaffinch, and has still somewhere about £20,000 of
its subscribed capital left. Bull Ant Proprietary,
which has £70,000 or thereabouts to its credit in
the bank, is also reported to be anxious to get hold
of something else.
Central and West Boulder (W.A.) is again
trying tu reconstruct itself. On the present occasion it is
proposed to mark down the nominal capital by one-
half, and put a liability of 2s. on the new shares.
This will give the co. an additional £25,000 to go
on with. A previous reconstruction took place in
August, 1901, when a similar amount was obtained
from shareholders. This enabled the mine to be
more or less toyed with, and the directors and officials
to live in comfort until about a year ago, when funds
became scarce. Since then the co. and its dependents
appear to have subsisted on tribute royalties.
Gwalia South (W.A.) presents a half-
yearly report that needs explanation. At the begin-
ning of the term, which ended on January 31, the
reserves were estimated at 61,000 tons of 41s. ore.
During the term, 13,756 tons were treated for a
return of a shade under 335. 6d. per ton. Yet,
although development expenditure amounted to
£7107 in the interim, all that was visible at the
end of the term was 29,400 tons of 375. stone. .In
other words, 17,844 tons of ore, which were alleged
to be in sight on July 31, 1910, and were not ex-
tracted, could not be seen on January 31, 1911,
and there was nothing to show for the sum spent
in looking for new reserves. Receipts (including
£l6OO taken from the bullion reserve) totalled
£24,664, but as expenditure absorbed £25,743, a loss
on the six months’ operations of £1079 is shown.
Luckily the co. still has a cash reserve of something
over £lO,OOO at its back ; but unless it takes more
care in arriving at its Ore estimates, and watches
the general management of affairs, it will soon be
reduced to the financial straits of a Domain dosser.
A statement from the mine manager accompanies the
report, but it contains nothing to guide shareholders
as .to what the current half-year is likely to bring
forth.
New Bayley’s Mines, Ltd., got a cooler
in the Coolgardie Warden’s Court the other day.
The co. exemption because the workings were
flooded, and backed up its application with a mourn-
ful tale about running short of money and having to
stop pumping until shareholders forked out more.
Warden Finnerty listened to the yarn with im-
patience, and then grudgingly granted the request,
adding that the co. had messed the mine about so
much that he would not recommend any more ex-
emption on the same grounds.
R. B. Pettigrew has been booming the
Greenfinch Co.’s Boodallin lease. Some unkind
persons, who may or may not know Mr. Pettigrew’s
optimistic tendencies, reckon that the rich ore met
with on the surface and in the prospecting shaft at
40ft. is only a patch, and until this important point
is definitely settled, Greenfinch and its crowd of
share-market gamblers had best be given a wide
berth.
* * * *
Murchison Associated and Golden Bull-
finch have joined forces at Ennuin, near Bullfinch
(W.A.), and taken a six months’ option over half a
dozen 24-acre blocks. Good prospects are alleged
to be visible on the surface, and shafts are to be
put down to see how things look at depth. Water
is scarce in this locality, but there should not be
much difficulty in getting an extension of the Gov-
ernment pipe line if the gold is there.
* * * *
Golden Pole (W.A.) is gradually wasting
away. Six months ago it had 2500 tons of ore re-
serves and £2378 cash. Now it hasn’t any ore re-
serves, and the cash has dwindled to about £lOOO.
Exclusive of depreciation (£791), the last half-
year’s expenditure exceeded receipts by £334, and in
order to prolong the agony as far as possible, the
mine and plant has been let to tributors for 12
months. By that time most of the little bit of
cash that is left will probably have been absorbed in
general expenses and fees.
* * * *
Dead, at 69, “Captain” Bill Oates, first
M.L.A. for Yilgarn (W.A.). He worked in a Cor-
nish mine at 11 years of age, and came to Bendigo
to learn gold-mining when 42. He managed a tin
show at Euriowie from ’B5 to ’BB, and then went to
Southern Cross to manage Frasers South. In five
years he won a ton of gold from Frasers and Frasers
South. He was the first to report favorably on the
Golden Mile, but, alas, he also reported favorably on
many miles which were not golden. A tough, strong,
big, likeable man, he might have lived till 90 had he
stayed in Cornwall; but Australia brought him much
money and loss of occupation, and to “Bill” Oates
that was fatal.
Monkland and Inglewood Deep Sink-
ing Co., of Gympie (Q.), has issued a prospectus,
which is well worth looking at; an abridgment is
printed on another page. This is the project to
which the word of encouragement was given a few
weeks ago. Alongside the property is the very
profitable Scottish Gympie, and there is every reason
to expect that the co., by sinking, will get into
corresponding makes of stone. The best-known
mining men of Gympie stand behind the venture
and recommend it.
Charters Towers has been giving Mar-
shall’s Queen a run, on the strength of a report that
there is a large area of unworked ground adjoining
the Queen Central. Sinking was continued from
the 1300 ft. level on the dip of the reef, which was
followed for nearly 200 ft. Two levels have been
driven on this formation, and both disclose fairly
good prospects. There are 96,000 shares, half of
which are contributing; but there is a very light
liability remaining on contributing shares. Victory
has also had some attention, mainly because of its
position adjoining other cos. that are likely to do a
deal of prospecting. Some of the East Mexican
levels approach the Victory boundary, but are not
far enough to the east to give any definite idea of
boundary prospects.
* * * *
Copper concentration in a mill fails
four times out of five. It is usually practised on
low-grade ore; and that fact, coupled with, the in-
evitable losses, cooks the goose. Great Fitzroy fQ.)
has just been driven to admit that it is no exception
to the rule, and has decided to close down its dress-
ing mill. It needs one of two things: a much-im-
proved copper market (and the prospects in that re-
gard are not hopeful), or a staff much more experi-
enced in copper metallurgy than 8., M. and Co. have
so far been able to command. The chief trouble ap-
pears to be that 8., M. and Co. thought beans could
take the place of brains.
Mount Elliott, Cloncurry, reckons its
profit for the March quarter at £51,740. This is
good, but there are a few expenses not enumerated
in working costs to take a clip out of the fine total.
To get this return of £51,740, the furnaces handled
12,442 tons ore for 1694 tons blister, containing—
copper, 1681 tons; gold, 32020 z. ; and silver,
1581 oz. The lot, with copper at £5O per ton and
gold at £4 per oz., was worth £97,016. The
profit is high; but, then, the value extracted averaged
between £7 and £8 per ton, and there never was a
mine that lasted long on that scale. The only safe
course is to consider a big proportion of the present
dividends as a return of capital.
Vulcan tin mine (Q.) is now crushing
stuff that returns a fair profit. The most hopeful
news is that the north drive, at the 1220 ft. level, is
following a formation sft. wide, carrying a little tin.
During March, this deepest tin mine in the southern
hemisphere crushed only 168 tons for £865 worth
of tin oxide, which followed 367 tons for £1698, so
it is obvious that a healthy addition to ore reserves
is badly wanted. The Vulcan is the kind of show to
make good again quickly, but latterly the patches of
ore disclosed in the underhand stopes from the 600 ft.
level have not maintained a big enough output to
pay a dividend.
Stannary Hills (Q.) for three weeks
crushed 2671 tons (including 1814 tons of cheaply-
got ore from the Central Hill) for 11 tons 9 cwt. of
concentrates. It isn’t good enough. Certainly
Mount Bischoff (Tas.) makes a large profit from
i p.c. ore, but it only does it through very cheap
mining, aerial lines for conveying ore, electric power
and very up-to-date crushing and concentrating ap-
pliances. And Stannary finds its ore hard and re-
fractory at depth, and low working costs are im-
possible.
* * * *
At 3263 ft. the Great Extended Hustlers,
of Bendigo, has been ignoring traditions by punching
away at stone on a syncline. Luck had it that gold
should come into the stone like plums in a pudding.
The reef is 2ft. to 3ft. thick, and is a long way the
best seen in the mine for ages. But it is too soon
to make guesses at what is really meant by the
strike. Hitherto) synclinal formations fit Behdigb
never have punched out profits. Near by the Co. is
operating an eastern formation) alas! too poor to do
much. It is also breaking dowii dirt below the
500 ft., but isn’t startling the world with results at
either of these points.
* * • *
The tineven way mining goes at Ben-
digo is exemplified by the quarterly returns. For
March quarter, 1910, 57>0000z.; ditto, for 1909,
65,5060 z. j ditto, for 1907) 57,9680 z. (practically
the same as to-day) ; and in 1906, 77,5510 z. The
Central Red, White and Blue is still proving that
large blocks have been lying neglected, and men
who were pessimists are finding cash to shoot at
other side-lines. They thereby singe the edge off
“Geology” Dunn’s recommendation to go down in
the deep mines. The fact is, Bendigo has found that
a shilling spent in shallow country goes twice as far
as eighteenpence at 4000 ft.
Cassilis (Vic.), having been backed
heavily and failed, is now up again as a job lot.
Brother Dickson’s promised turn-up hasn’t matured,
and a fresh hand has been brought on to the mine to
do the in-fighting. This is Lilburne, late of the
South German, Maldon. On the strength of the new
man’s hopes, the directors now ask for another bob
to flutter with. Cassilis, when you look at it in
the lump, has not been a bad goer, but it never
trained properly. Cash called up has been £27,500,
divs. £15,200, and machinery—-hooray for metal
merchants and German vendors !• —-£53,000. So far
for every £1 called, machinery has taken over £3.
On top of all, the directors say: “We appeal to share-
holders not to allow so promising a property, with
such great possibilities, to languish for want of Small
financial support.” Cassilis has been a good mine,
and may be a good mine still, but it has been driven
hard, and has wearied. Why don’t the directors do
the heroic, and say: “We have had about 10 years of
trial and haven’t done much more than pay wages.
Let’s chuck the show into a big firm’s lap, to chance
them pulling us through, allowing a salary and a per-
centage of profits!” Cassilis ought to be the central
customs works for many Gippsland shows, but dash
and skill are wanted. Unfortunately no one is con-
fident that these essentials are loafing round the
Cassilis board-room.
T’other day some genius notified that
pyrites were showing in the schist being broken in
the Lyell Blocks shaft, next to the North Lyell
(Tas.). Whereupon the god of Greed said, “Let’s
fling the tats on the green velvet to see if there are
any mugs about.” So Mercury and Mammon spread
the lucky Cloth, and while Mercury kept the weather-
eye open Mammon cast his Net. And it is said in
the Market-place that Mammon snared some Big
Fish, but that he did not hold them all, because
Sharks broke a hole in the Net. Whereupon many
Silly Fish wagged their tails, and, murmuring
“Here’s a let-out,” got. The moral, of course, is
that all pyrites that show in schist aren’t share
certs. ’Tis said that Big Bowes Kelly has written
this up in his North Lyell closet at the 1200 ft.
level. The truth thereof no one can say.
* * * *
Premier Verran has given S. Aus. a tough
mouthful to chew. He has taken over the Paramatta
and Yelta copper mines, on Yorke Peninsula, and
proposes to work them as State mines. Heaven only
knows why, unless it be that Verran represents some
of the Yorke Peninsula miners. But this isn’t re-
presented as “relief work”; it is submitted as an
outbreak of State enterprise. State mines are quite
justifiable. Every State which runs its own railways
ought, for instance, to run its own coal mines. It is
quite right, too, for a State which owns ore-reducing
works to run a mine or two as a stand-by for the
works. But Verran starts on his “nationalising”
scheme by taking over derelicts which Private En-
terprise gave up as a bad job when copper was 20
p.c. above its present price. Especially as Verran
sits for a Yorke Peninsula district, this kind of
thing will do the Labor party no good, and will put
into the hands of its enemies a whip wherewith to
thrash “Socialism.” There are a thousand better
ways of being Socialistic. In fact, Verran might
with better reason make a State-enterprise of almost
any sort of production. The primary object of
Socialism is to eliminate the loafer —to give to the
actual producer and the distributer all that the con-
sumer pays for the product. So Socialism is designed
to put up the producers’ pay a little and reduce the
consumers’ charges a little. S. Aus. isn’t a con-
sumer of copper, however; and as for the producer
—well, he has had not only all that Paramatta and
Yelta have produced, but many tens of thousands
besides. Verran had better drop his weird scheme
before he does any worse mischief.
* * * *
From Maoriland: Talisman (Karang-
hahake) has just declared its regular div. on the new
basis of Is. 6d. for old and Is. lid. for new issue.
This will absorb £25,000, and bring total divs. to
£534,234. Last return is not to hand, but values
in the mine continue good, and it will probably be
much as usual. Waihi gives its April return as
£59,156, from 29,450 tons. On the same tonnage
for April of last year, the recovery was about £lO,OOO
more. This shows how the value of the ore is de-
creasing. Still shares have hardened a bit. Waihi
Grand Junction puts up a record return for April of
£13,589, from 9152 tons. Total return to date is
oyer £445,000, but divs. are still only showing
dimly on the horizon. The new tube mills account
for the increase. The lately discovered lode is to be
called the Grace, after the mine superintendent.
For 133 ft. of driving, 59in. exposed in width assays
£2 10s. This is on footwall; hanging-wall side is
low-grade. Consolidated Goldfields (Reefton, M.L.)
keep steady returns. Progress crushed 4249 tons for
£2680, with extras £1196; Wealth of Nations,
1665 tons for £2501, and 1105 tons cyanided for
£802; Blackwater, 3701 tons for £6890, extras
£lllO.
Private: Sorry, but can’t advise that way.
... .Jobber: Can’t advise.
The bonus of £2500 offered by M.L.
Government for the first 250,000 gallons of crude
petroleum produced in the country, has been col-
lected by the Taranaki Petroleum Co. A couple of
weeks ago the output had reached 268,000 gallons.
Some time ago a quantity of the oil was handled
by A. F. Craig and Co., the well-known refiners at
Paisley, Scotland, and their verdict on analysis was
that it was the most superior oil they had ever
examined. Taranaki is talking in millions at pre-
sent, and the old reliable dairying is looked upon
as a low trade. Meantime the British Imperial Oil
Co. has got into holts with the Standard Oil Co. over'
the invasion of the China market by the latter, and
has started a war of retaliation. M.L. being a small
preserve of the Americans, a skirmish will take place
there, and the market will probably commence to
sag in the middle shortly. The first British ammuni-
tion is on its way per steamer John Hardie. This
fight between the big fellows isn’t likely to do the
local article any good.
* * * *
Minerals, other than gold, to the value of
£16,985, were exported from the West during
March, making the total to the end of that month
£2,745,291. Of this amount copper accounted for
£998,131, tin £935,311, silver £253,844, silver-
lead ore £10,091, and other minerals £547,914.
* ■*■ * *
Joe Tanks, who returned to Melbourne
from London the proud possessor of a nail-can hat,
a frock-coat and French-kid . shoes, got rid of these
West-enders when he went out to shake up the Midas
claims at Sulky Gully. Joseph induced J. Bull to
pick up the skein which Miss Cornwall dropped in
the days of 20 years ago. But friend Tanks lets the
alluvial alone. He wants to test the reefs whence
the famous Midas nugget was shed. Getting decent
prospects, he is erecting a battery bought with a
strict Baliarat economy. The reef he is on darries a
good face of solid quartz. What, so far, has made it
attractive is the percentage of mineral. It thus re-
sembles the mineral lode from which the Star of the
East paid its iast divs. under ’Enery Edwards’s
direction. Joe Tanks thinks things sufficiently but-
tery to advise re-opening a shaft near the old'Midas
Consols. He has got Peter Mcßride to bless his en-
terprise and to give the Bond-street suit another
airing.
* * * *
Every engineer in charge Of factories and mills
should give close attention to the power wasted in
transmission of power. The Hyatt Flexible Roller
Bearings save 20 per cent, power and 75 per Cent,
of oil, so one of the first duties is naturally for
engineers to direct their special attention to these
bearings and to car boxes for trucks. Hyatts are
in continuous use in Cement Works, Ore Dressing
Mills, Factories, etc., in Australia. Bushings of
flexible rollers may be applied to loose pulleys or
truck wheels, etc. Should engineers require further
details, they can apply to the Australian Agents,
W. & J. Lempriere, Melbourne; or E. W. Hurst-
house and Co., of Wellington, the agents in New
Zealand.*
“FERRODOR” Paint.—-Specially manufactured fo-
preserving galvanised iron and steel. Unaffected by
sea air, sulphur fumes, cyanogen gases. Used on
Princes and Victoria Bridges, P. and O. and N.D.L.
steamers, etc. Covers 1000 sq. yds. per cwt. WM.
ADAMS & CO., LTD., 175 Clarence Street, Sydney.*
* * * »
Steam Users are invited to Send for illustrated
catalogue of Engineering Specialities manufactured
by Bell’s United Asbestos Co., Ltd. Every descrip-
tion of asbestos goods, patent “Belfry” Steam Valves
and asbestos packed cocks and water gauges are
stocked at the depots of Bell’s Asbestos Austra-
lian Agency, Ltd., 315 Kent Street, Sydney, and
Beach Street, Fremantle; also at Victorian Agency,
W. H. Lamond & Co., 328 Flinders Street, Mel-
bourne.*
* * » *
Professor Richards, in the revised edition of his
celebrated edition of “Ore Dressing,” 1909, devotes
14 pages to the Wilfley concentrating table, and,
among other things remarks (p. 1465) : “The first
table sold was installed in the Puzzle Mill, at Breck-
enridge, Colorado. Since then over 12,000 have been
sold. This machine has revolutionised ore-dressing,
and as such is a phenomenal success. The original
form, and forerunner of all modern shaking tables
with longitudinal riffles . . has been greatly improv-
ed.” And further on (p. 1478) remarks: “One feature
of the Wilfley table to which especial attention should
be called is its ability to separate sands from slimes
while making the ordinary concentration. This sep-
aration is more complete and thorough than can be
made by any classifier, and should be taken advant-
age of in designing mills.” In the extensive addi-
tions just made to the Golden Horseshoe Mine (W.A.)
a large number of Wilfley Concentrators have been
installed. The Austral Otis Engineering Company,
Limited, South Melbourne, have the sole manufac-
turing rights.* [1
* * * *
FOR SALE Cheap, Second-Hand, 15 Break H.P.
Tangye Gas Engine, in good order. Apply Manager,
Bulletin Office, 214 George Street, Sydney.*
Dick’s Patent Balata Belting, invented and made
by R. and J. Dick, Glasgow, is the only original arid
most reliable Balata Belting. To ensure getting
real article, branded with makers’ name, obtain from
Sole Importers, James Hardie and Co., West Circular
Quay, Sydney, who carry large stocks, guaranteeing
quality.* [2
* * * *
Extract from Assure, Manchester, September,
1910: “The Colonial Mutual—the first colonial office
to open an establishment in the Mother Country—
has always had a reputation for being an enterprising
and progressive institution, and lately has attracted
special attention by enlarging the scope of its opera-
tions, so as to include Industrial and Accident busi-
ness.”*
NO EXPOSED METAL is the secret of Wood
Pipe’s success. Neither rust, acid, electricity or
minerals have any effect on the wood, hence its dura-
bility. The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Bal-
main, Sydney, will send catalogue on application.*
Mine Managers and Engineers. —Send vour orders
for miners’ drill steel, octagon, hexagon and cruci-
form, solid or hollow; manganese and chrome steel
castings and forgings; all tool steels and engineers’
tools, pneumatic tools, machine tools, saw blades
and frames, etc., to Bohler Bros. & Co., Ltd., 1
Angel Place, Sydney, and at Melbourne.*
Patents.— Have you an idea worth patenting?
If so, write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address, 163 King
Street, Sydney, and 9 Queen Street, Melbourne.* [I
* * * *
An economical proposition in belt conveying of
great interest to mining and mill managers, en-
gineers, etc. “Condor” Brand Registered Black Sur-
face Hardened Conveyor Belting—specially adapted
for the Australian climate —for conveying ore, sand,
metal, wheat, coal, etc. Less than half cost of
rubber belting, giving excellent results, Kalgoorlie,
Broken Hill, and Wallaroo. Write for price lists
and particulars to Sole Manufacturers, Hopkins Bros.
& Odium Prop., Ltd., Leicester Street, Carlton, Mel-
bourne.*
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co. Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modern scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne.*
Nobel’s Explosives are the best and most re-
liable. We are agents for the original makers,
Hamburg. Large stocks on hand. Contracts at low
rates. WM. ADAMS & CO., LTD., 175 Clarence
Street, Sydney.*
* * * *
Mine managers when requiring air compressors,
either belt, steam, or electrically driven, should not
fail to inspect the Reavell Air Compressor, when they
will be impressed by its simplicity, compactness and
portability. Owing to the working parts being en-
tirely enclosed it can be placed to work on any part
of the mine, either on the surface or underground.
The number of repeat orders which Messrs. Reavell
have received from the mining community proves
how greatly their compressor is appreciated. The
representatives for Australia are Messrs. Babcock
and Wilcox, Haymarket, Sydney.* [2
* * * *
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign Patents obtained.
Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Melbourne, and
Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write us for In-
ventors’ Guide. *
Assayers, Mine Managers, and Prospectors
write to H. B. Silberberg and Co., 443 Bourke
Street, Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining
requisites and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc
pulverisers to 200 mesh; hand sample grinders to
120 mesh; Ainsworth’s assay balances sensitive to
1/13000 grain; prospector’s balances to 1/1000
grain ; weight; pocket transits ; gasoline combination
furnaces ; Morgan’s crucibles ; chemicals; etc.*


:5
° f O
o
“Give me your name
and address ? ”
Now, don’t be afraid—lt’s only
for the Robur tea people, who
are anxious to know where you
live, so that in case your grocer
doesn’t stock Robur, they may
let you know the name of the
nearest grocer who does keep it.
Would you believe it, there
are still some grocers so short-
sighted as to think by not stock-
ing Robur they can weedle their
customers into taking some
other tea out of which they
make a big profit. I don’t
know what other people think
but I do know it wouldn’t be
good for the fellow I buy my
groceries from to try to regulate
what I shall or shall not put
into my stomach.
In my opinion, it’s a grocer’s
place to keep in stock whatever
his customers ask for, and sell
it them, so long as they are
willing to pay for it. and those
who* try to mislead people into
believing that something
else is as good—when it
isn’t —ought
to be run in
ghjhjhjkjhk
The Policeman
Esteb
1818
World
ghjhjhjkjhk
Renowned.
r Trade Mark.
STUHR’S
Finest Table Delicacies
Genuine Caviare.
Anchovies in Brine.
Peeled Shrimps.
Shrimps Extract.
Sold by all Hlgh-olass Provision Dealers.
C. F. STUHR & CO., Hamburg.
L English Export Agent: W. Lovegrove, London,E.C.
QUALITY—BUCHANAN WHISKY
“BLACK & WHITE.
A
WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, May 15, 1911.
My Dear Arini, —
The Prince Alfred Hospital management
hurled speeches at the All Nations Fair la-
dies in the Town Hall the other day. It
was one of those grey afternoons that incite
a thrifty woman to wear her worst clothes,
and a wet-day umbrella fell down suddenly
in the midst of the chief peroration. The
platform looked as if it were peopled by
tame missionaries gazing at a broken-spirited
assemblage of reformed cannibals. Tne
“cannibals” supported themselves —round a
mushroom growth of tables —with their own
thoughts. The main body of the Town Hall
could not be eaten. Every chair-leg squeaked
with impatience. Sometimes a feather as-
serted itself by bobbing up. But the atmo-
spheric pressure was too heavy, and it fell
down again. Umbrellas went on beating
their ribs against the floor. Refreshments
came later.
Miss Lottie Gilbert —one of the “Old Eng-
land” stall girls—was an exception to the
All Nations Fair funeral, and wore cheer-
ful garments of cream serge, with elaborate
accessories in curly silk braid. Miss Innes-
Noad was another nice-looking damsel who
was not garbed in gloom. There must have
been scores of others, but whenever I moved
to find them an umbrella went bang. 11.
N. Southwell caught the “atmosphere,” and
side-stepped a musical programme on tip-
toes, with the air of one who had no inten-
tion of waking the dead. Mr. W. G. Lay-
ton, who has an eye for color, turned a pen-
sive smile on to the plethora of sad-hued fe-
male plumage. Prof. Anderson Stuart and
Mayor Allen Taylor were not responsible for
the damp-cracker effect of their oratory. It
was simply one of those revival meetings that
won’t revive.
Judge Murray, the Australian-born Lieut.-
Governor of Papua, is finishing up his 12
months’ furlough in this city. The first
week in June will see his departure
from Brisbane for the land of the rubber-
tyred mosquito. Governor Murray is an
incurable optimist. He tells me the New
Guinea mosquito isn’t half a bad fellow, if
/uii know his habits. Says he: “The best
way to dodge the genuine malarial mosquito
is to go to bed at sunset, and get under the
nets before his evening performance begins.
However, we don’t often do it.” Life in
Papua goes on foot, in spite of the climate.
White women, with the notable exception of
Beatrice Grimshaw, who is happy and hearty
in her Port Moresby headquarters, don’t
usually stand the heat as well as men.
“I have an immense admiration for the
white women over there,” says Governor
Murray. “Only devotion to their husbands
keeps them going. Generally speaking, they
suffer a good deal from fever. Men stand
the climate much better. We play tennis
and walk during the heat of the day. In
fact, we try not to notice it. Personally, I
keep well, and think it’s only a matter of
ime before we conquer the fever question,
.n fact, it’s better understood every year.
Ve’re getting healthier conditions already.
We can walk 20 miles a day in the flat
country. Sunstroke? I’m not aware of
it, but that’s supposed to be our way in
New Guinea. Britishers in other tropic
parts say we all suffer from chronic sun-
stroke, and that’s why we’re all mad.” Gov-
ernor Murray appears to be remarkably
level-headed. Perhaps that’s his special
brand of sunstroke.
First, night of the “Gay Gordons,” at the
Criterion, was a boom in kilts. Frank Lin-
coln, who plays the part of Angus Graeme,
tells me he rather dotes on kilts for habitual
wear. Says he: “They’re most comfort-
able.” He denies any tendency to catch
cold in his knees. Perhaps Mr. Lincoln
would mention this to Senator McGregor,
who’s jumping on the tartan skirt with both
feet. Mr. Lincoln’s love for kilts is now
diluted with a frantic affection for Sydney.
He has already fallen off the step of a city
tram. “They’re rather hurried after London
cars. Before we got here, by the way, we
heard a good deal about the narrow streets
of Sydney, but one immediately compares
them with some of our narrow London streets,
and I don’t think yours are to be spoken of in
the same breath. Your public buildings are
so fine; as for your Harbor !” Out
of deference to the feelings of people who
can’t grow a Reckitts’ blue water-front, I
refuse to repeat the Lincoln panegyric.
The principal girls in the “Gay Gordons”
have the only type of figure which the modern
dressmaker has an,y use for. Florence Ime-
son, steeped in azure blue garments, with
suggestions of silver fringe, is as slim and
active as a dancing doll. Nell Finnis is
another good-looking girl with the silhouette
lines that make the plump woman sigh to
hide her own waist in a long course of toast
crusts and lemon juice. Andrew Quainton
is alleged to be an American millionaire.
He might be more extravagant in the price
he pays for his grey wig, which gets off
the track and shows brown bracken under-
neath.
Mr. and Mrs. Anthony Hordern, Mr.
“Billy” Watson and Mrs. Watson were in a
box at the first “Gay Gordon” revelry. Mrs..
Anthony, in soft garb of raven black, with a
touch of white on her corsage, was One of
the most quietly-dressed women in the
theatre.
Aviator Hammond was not arrested for
obstructing the traffic in Martin Place the
other day. Until the local police wear com-
plete sets of wings, instead of cotton gloves,
bird-men who flirt with city by-laws at
500 ft. or 1000 ft. above the street level are
likely to escape the Riot Act. Nevertheless,
business habits were hung on office pegs
while the male population cricked its neck
and gazed into a translucent canopy of blue
sky. Consequently, Martin Place, while
Aviator Hammond was coquetting with
space, was as easy to negotiate as a packed
herring-barel.
General Gordon went aloft last week. Vic-
toria Barracks held its breath and prepared
to run up signals of distress. But the aero-
plane broke nothing—not even a record.
Mr. Lawrence Hargrave, of Sydney, has
worn wings in his brain for over 20 years.
His oldest acquaintances are now scratch-
ing round “the little gates of memory,” to
find a date when this persistent person was
not trying to fly. Youthful friends, in the
pre-aeroplane years, believed that the Har-
grave feet were shod with wings, and used
to listen for the whir in the vicinity of
Rushcutters’s Bay. In those days the Har-
graves’ front door-bell was in the neighbor-
hood of Bayswater-road, just beyond lawyer
John Williams’s home-nest. It’s one of
the ironies of life that the early habitation
of a man who means to soar to a (pre-
sumably) Better World, in his own brand
of aeroplane, should have nothing left to
mark its location but an underground bath.
This relic is said to be still visible to the
naked eye of Australian explorers with
a thirst for excavations. The stone sarco-
phagus, let into the bathroom floor, was not
uncommon when the Hargrave brain was
growing its first box-kites.
John Longstaff, who has acquired the dis-
graceful habit of not growing any older, is at
the present moment using up all the avail-
able daylight, and mixing it with oils in his
portraits of Prof. Anderson Stuart and Prof.
MacCallum. Another, of Mr. Edmund Fos-
bery, is to follow. All three are good
subjects for the Longstaff way with
a brush. He is wary of saying
anything that may be used against
him in print, but his trick of taking notice
worried him into dropping a few remarks
the other day re feminine looks. “English-
women have more color and a more brilliant
appearance, perhaps, than Australian wo-
men, from an artist’s point of view, but they
haven’t better complexions, nor so fine a tex-
ture of skin as one sees amongst Sydney and
Melbourne women.” On the agitating topic
of harem-skirts Longstaff is deaf and
dumb. He thinks Julian Ashton has com-
pletely abandoned any idea of getting older;
rejoices in his native scenery; and dodges
the artistic “wrapper” style of ndglige so
much affected by juvenile Art-students by
being well-groomed to a hair.
Mr. F. S. Kelly, one of the wealthy “tin”-
Ivelly band, has been getting himself talked
about. He has grafted on to his Australian
start in life a Fog Land reputation for be-
ing something exciting in Diamond Sculls, as
well as a pianist of many notes. A pupil of
the late Sydney Moss, F. S. Kelly is said to
be a musician because he can’t help himself.
He is not looking for a crust.
Oarsman-player Kelly met John Lemmone
on the voyage to these sunlit shores, and
forthwith plunged into a composition for the
flute. Lemmone sees no reason to use it for
shaving-paper, and means to play it at a
July concert. Moreover, the Sydney Sym-
phony Orchestra has tripped over diamond
sculler Kelly, and impounded the pianist to
play the Beethoven Concerto at its con-
cert, in combination with the Sheffield Choir.
Violinist William Coad, formerly of Syd-
ney, has injected a serum of praise for Kreis-
ler into the S. M. Herald’s musical critic.
According to a London friend, who sends me
a meaty item re this Master-Fiddler Kreis-
ler, some years ago he was wandering round
the United States, playing for his daily
bread and dripping, when he met and mar-
ried an American woman with an abnormal
gift for business. Kreisler’s struggles oe-
came properly organised. Then followed
his first appearance in London. He was
unknown to the newspapers, but, after his
performance, the Times opened its criticism
with the dramatic line, “Hats off, gentle-
men ! We are in the presence of genius.”
Later came Kreisler’s primary attack on the
big spaces of the Queen’s Hall. Two male
critics, sitting behind a lady in the audience,
expressed a slight doubt as to the carrying
power of Kreisler’s fiddle-tone in a big hall.
The lady turned round. “You just throw
that off your liver, young man. My Fritz’s
tone’s all right.” It was the indefatigable
Mrs. Kreisler.
The Ethel Stephens picture rally boiled
over in a copper kettle on the studio hearth
at a final qfternoon thanksgiving service.
“Those present” crooned over Chancellor
McLaurin’s portrait. Miss Stephens has
captured a striking likeness, with a flinty
“No Commem.” expression in the tail of both
eyes. The Normandy sketches, in tempera
.and other things, show that this artist’s
work has climbed up quite two flights of
stairs since her recent walks abroad. She
planked her easel down for a while in
Etaples, an artist-haunted French town with
a good reputation for tame peasants and at-
tractive scenery.
_ Barrister Lingen stamped up to a desirable
piece of Ethel Stephens’s purple color-work,
modestly branded “Study for Design,” and
bought it on sight. The little red seal, freely
translated “sold,” made bright spots, like
the dab of a hot poker, on a generous per-
centage of the studio exhibits.. Judge Back-
house, Mrs. Salusbury, Mr. and Mrs. Carter,
Mrs. Wilfred Docker, Mrs. J. Ranken and
Miss Marian Clark were among those who
offered encouragement to the present epi-
demic of picture shows.
Norman Carter opens an exhibition as
this letter closes, proving his unshaken re-
solve to go on painting in oils, in spite of the
threatened rise in bread. Norwich Cham-
bers is the scene of this assault on the better
feelings of those who habitually buy motor-
cars and foreign diamonds.
Artist Florence Rodway leaned up against
my teacups the other day. She was looking
for rest for the soles of her aching shoe-
leather. After chasing this city’s highest
altitudes, and diving into the den of every
person suspected of concealing a possible
studio on his premises, she became a hard-
boiled pessimist, with a limp in both feet.
Miss Rodway, who is too guileless to be
trusted alone with “To let” ads, had to
tackle an acute problem in officeitis. No
man wants to let an office to a woman- —
if he can find another man to inhabit it.
One complaint was based on the libellous
statement that women hire offices for the sole
purpose of gossiping with other women.
Florence is now, however, unpacking a serene
smile, and taking her feet out of splints. She
has found a studio! It cost her eight weeks’
tram fares and about fourteen pairs of
welted soles.
Loud and cheerful noises prevailed at the
’Varsity Students’ Festival in the Town Hall.
Spiders with creepy legs dangled from one
gallery, and crawled automatically over the
faces of unsuspecting arrivals on the ground
floor. Aggressive effigies chewed the air on
the other side of the hall. The ’Varsity
boys were on their honor. No big gathering
in the same place has ever been better
handled than Saturday’s Senate-snubbed
meeting. It was shorn of its distinguished-
person whiskers, but it extracted a cheerful
speech from Opposition-leader Wade.
On Saturday Miss Meares, M.A., and Mr.
Mitchell, widower, are going to take each
other for better. Miss Meares, who has
been head and front of Rivi&re College fox-
years, was amongst the earlier crop of am-
bitious young women in this State who
trekked for University honors and snared an
M.A. degree.
The engagement of Herbert Willsallen,
son of late pastoralist T. P. Willsallen,
to Miss Kathleen King, daughter of another
wool man, the late Mr. G. B. King, has been
mentioned. T. P. Willsallen and the late
R. G. Higgins were step-brothers. Mr. Hig-
gins, who died a few months ago, was also
something considerable in flocks and herds.
His will was proved the other day at
£147,000 or thereabouts. Handsome Alice
Higgins, the youngest chick, is ruminating
over a first trip to the Cold Land, a few
months hence. In years that are now moth-
eaten memories, the Higgins family kept
their hospitable latch on the click at Clif-
ford, Potts Point. Ivickabil Station was
their wool-growing resort.
The farewell concert to Miss Madge Hellm-
rich, the contralto, got a stitch in its side,
or broke its engagement-ring, and didn’t oc-
cur when I said it would. It has now pulled
itself together, and promises to happen on
24th instant. “In honor of her marriage,”
is the official label for this event. Y.M.C.A.
Hall will be the place.
Mrs. Walter Clark and Miss Clark are
back in their Victoria Barracks lair after a
long-drawn halt in Melbourne and amidst
the adjacent scenery. Lieut.-Col. Clark
clanks a serious sword in the N.S.W. R.A.A.,
and takes the place of lately-lamented Col.
Wallace. The Clarks show a kindly inter-
est in junior limbs of local artillery. They
gave a Christmas party, in Victoria Bar-
racks, to gunners’ youngsters, which still
lives in the kiddies’ minds as a local cloud-
burst of toys and story-books.
Mrs. Ivenric Brodribb, who pursues the
gilt-edged hobby of being “in the swim” in
Melbourne Society, is at present varying this
occupation by staying at the Australia.
The Ramaciotti quartet left by the Oster-
ley for European capitals. Mr. Ramaciotti’s
business connection with the J.C.W. firm
has only two or three weeks more to run.
The Laidley Morts and Dr. Jarvie Hood
and sister, joined the Osterley migration for
Coronation and other capers.
Bessie Major, writing to a friend, says
the Asche-Brayton team will meet the Indian
Durbar, and return to Sydney much sooner
than Halley’s comet, which collected no
gate-money here. Easter 1912 is hinted at
as the approximate day of the Asche inva-
sion.
The Lily Mackenzie Seton concert was a
dressy function, stage managed by Mrs.
Quesnel, and ushered to its seats by the
Noble Seven volunteers. These amateurs,
in immaculate swallow-tail plumage, feeling
that the eyes of the world were on their
collar studs, were so careful not to mix up
the reserved seats that plain persons felt
as if they’d suddenly fallen into a dress re-
hearsal for a seraphic choir. Mrs. Alex.
Gordon sent Miss Seton a cheque to keep her
bouquet nicely balanced.
The Rose Bay Golf Club has had several
recent and severe fits of tea and cake.
Three Merewether sisters, namely, Mrs. G.
Massy, Mrs. Wardell and Mrs. T. Busby,
gave one of the largest and latest of these
confectionery rallies. It was chiefly a ga-
thering of old friends, who revived memories
or “teeny” years. Judge Docker found his
lost youth in a gorgeous artificial straw-
berry. He ached to steal it from its iced lair on
a special brand of cake. The Devil tempted
him and he fell. Artificial stalk and
Satanic scarlet berry were swallowed in
haste. The Majesty of the Law was heard
to murmur “Prussic acid” between his
clenched teeth. Says his Honor, after the
first shock, “I think I’d better walk it off.”
The way of the transgressor was a bee-line
for home.
The floral fete in aid of St. Vincent’s
Hospital deserves to be served up in frills
of flattery. It achieved a blue-ribbon for
getting a maximum of coin at a minimum of
expense. The average charity entertain-
ment nibbles at the profits in all sorts of
insidious ways. Occasionally the harmless-
looking item, “Stationery and Printing,” has
wiped the floor with plump committee ladies.
Mayoress Allen Taylor had a cheerful tale
to tell last week, when she handed in £1052
to the Mother Rectress. This was the com-
bined result of various side-shows in the
cause. An abbreviated item for expenses,
£62, stands alone. The fixture wears the
gold medal for shrewd business habits.
Edward Branscombe, Ltd., is in charge of
a “matutinal tea” to Sousa’s band, as this
letter closes. Probably this is a frilly rela-
tion of the morning tea which every woman
knows she intends to give up —next week.
Jim Hardbeat has just tumbled up these
stairs. He’d been to the Sousa “matutinal
tea” and lost most of his collar on the front
steps of the Town Hall. He says there
were about 50,000 people hanging on to the
front railing, and he guesses there must have
been 14,000 inside. He didn’t get inside.
He had his fight out-of-doors. He chal-
lenged all obstruction to prove that he hadn’t
got an invitation card in his pocket. When
he found the pocket, the card was pulp, and
his collar was hanging down his back. He
put in here for repairs.
Somebody said that Miss Russell,
daughter of an Auckland lawyer, was the
first Maoriland girl to plunge in coronets,
when she married Earl Hardwick. She’s
in the first flisrht, but the Earl of Seafield, a
few years ago, married a Christchurch girl.
Nina, daughter of Dr. J. T. Townend. I
don’t think the Seafield title is heavily gilded.
The family name is Ogilvie-Grant. Lord
Seafield is an amateur photographer of merit,
and gives his camera employment at Oamaru,
M.L.
Yours, with a broad nib,
VANDORIAN.


mm up
w.
nmmmzm
jm
cv;
jgg#B&£Sg
tsggSM?*
} h Jfj! | |f
*s>*
.
M
&W*
JJ; | rfV- };?>&:& i* < f*
I ih mm aA H 1
/•'/
5^
IS
S. 3 <
: ■
i<-S-
-\-
SS?
s
i
‘M
ssc
1
b : ;
i
i
Vwl
5«
if
S
w
?M
i?
liik!
%asm
!III|p|»
II
&
y <j'
YA
warn
mmx
J-\; £
■'A-S3L
V«¥2S®
’«==£>
£*»>*
Wf
UA
fe +
m
, ..' -'■ ~
8P
£W
»*■»
\cV
Am
c.
V
w
?Zm&4
B
M
4
istui
I iis
©6
•S&4
"V
'6c.*o
m.
M
fslf
wm
m
;'aS
*
f (;'
WSxP
gp§M
g*&
ft&LirU
1
to
IpfL
Jv
:»•;
.....
Bi®?
Sii&J
&
JMB
' 6C/ * 1 ..'Mi--;Vr<. HSI
.imrjMw- tiwZAyr- .:***
.A
riv
yA : A*M4
V®3g
.,v.^
: : i
SfS
■‘^sSa®
•^y..* v ~y' f
. .y'k
••'■ a'<'y ; ;>a-:.y,, i »f‘ ,v^v
WK
>*<i£A ~:.•/* .:•■:•'• <r«' -;•:«>* -:•
•J 3?
_
Air-
COBRA FLOOR POLISH is as
good as COBRA BOOT POLISH.
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Polishes the
Floorcloth, too,
Till you say,
‘ For goodness sake
It’s like walking
On a lake 1 ”
Cobra Polish
Always use
For the floorcloth,
Boots and shoes ;
And this maxim
Think upon :
Chunder puts the
Polish on 1 ”


V--
m
m
m
'm
§
&
1
w
M
m
1 v':
H/TlTe re’sn o thing like
»l our soft Para Rubber Dunlop
I Heels for Comfort, Wear
V//\ and Finish. Thav absorb all
m I and Finish. They absorb all
///A iarrinif. nnH mitwpar spvpral
jarring, and outwear several
y/\ pairs of leather heels.
Obtainable in various shapes' and
sizes from all leading Stores. But
to get Best Results you must
l specify “DUNLOP” Brand.
RUBBER HEELS
Outwear
All
Others.
Only Accept
Dunlop
Brandy
DUNLOP RUBBER
Melbourne, Sydney
ChrlatchufcK. ftUk
HAVE
YOU
driven in
a Vehicle
fitted with
mC
\
32.
DUNLOP-
KELLY ■»
TYRES?
If so, then you have appreciated the
freedom from noise and vibration
associated with our popular Solid
Rubber Tyres, which are now fitted
to thousands of Vehicles.
Do you know that they last for
years on a private conveyance,
double the life of a vehicle, and
can be fitted to new or old wheels
from £5 per pair and upwards ?
* * *
Let us post you a copy of our Illustrated
Catalogue' IT WILL INTEREST YOU.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.,
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane,
HAYWARD’S
Costumes 8 Riding Habits
are Known All Over Australia.
WRITE OR CALL FOR
CATALOGUE OF NEW FASHIONS.
323 George Street, Sydney
Opp.
Paling’s.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, Mat 15, 1911.
Mt Hear Yarrie,—
The week has been punctuated with good-byes
to the Carmichaels, who depart on Wednesday.
The day before the final hand-waving there is to
be a mammoth farewell to the lady from the
“ women of Victoria.” Mrs. Mayoral Davey, who
leads this onslaught, will present a bulky volume
to the voyager. The book, it is explained, holds
the signatures of “well-wishers.” Which reminds
me of Mrs. Cabbage-patch Wiggs’s husband. In
religion he was a “Well-wisher,” you remember.
When I think first of the multitudinous pages
that have been sprinkled about Melbourne for
weeks past, and when I think second of her Ex.’s
popularity, I feel sure the Mayoress will need a
crane and tackle to raise the volume. As for the
Governor-lady, she will no doubt receive it upon
the bent backs of four contiguous gentlemen
helps.
Last week the departing Carmichaels shook
Ballarat by the hand. They rose before daylight
and, with secretary Victor' Hood and A.D.C.
Vaux, sped northward to the City of South Street.
It proved to be a long farewell, for they only got
away at 7.30 in the evening, It was probably
near midnight by the time they were back at Ston-
ington, a tired, damp and over-farewelled party.
Rain fell steadily all day, and the starting tear,
which was too numerous to dry, added to the
general dismalness. Lady Carmichael’s fascinat-
ing frock cheered things up somewhat; it was
a twilight-beyond-the-purple-hills petunia velvet
cut snugly into a Russian coat. The black hat
which went with it had a gay tilt and possessed
one flat side and a cockade.
The Victoria League women specially fare-
welled the lady when they got her in their
hospitable clutch, and gave her a nugget of gold
to remember them by. The speck was of mer-
chantable size and was shaped exactly like the
map of our continent. The aims and objects of
the League (founded on Empiah Day, 1908) are
“to promote a friendly understanding between
Britons all over the world.” Given a good supply
of nuggets, that should be easy.
Capitain Vaux was in attendance on the lady
while she made her special adieux, and Victor
Hood followed faithfully in the footsteps of his
Exit.
It is to be hoped that Governor Carmichael is
as Scotch as people think him. Never has a man
been serenaded and haunted by bagpipes as he.
During his term, now drawing rapidly to a close,
a fraction of a regiment of Scotch Boy Scouts has
been formed and provided with miniature bag-
pipes, which are even more excruciating than the
full-grown animals. No one ever seems to enter-
tain Carmichael without dragging a piper to the
scene, and ordering him to squeeze out wild
sounds for the comfort of the eminent guest. The
Caledonian Society ceremoniously bade good-bye
to their countryman at dinner on Wednesday
night. President Boyd said farewell cheerfully
on behalf of the local clansmen, and Carmichael,
in a long speech, coupled Australia and Scotland
by quoting Will Ogilvie. A little music and a
lot of bagpipes helped out the speeches, food and
drink; and William McNeilage read a valedictory
verse addressed to the guest of the evening.
The Victorian Government has dealt a full
hand of invitations for the swearing-in ceremony
of John Michael Eleetwood Fuller, as Chief
Bazaar Opener, on May 24, which used to be the
birthday of the august lady after whom the
State is named.
Your Miss Gibbs really and truly became Our
Miss Gibbs on Saturday last. A triple row of
motors, which extended from the theatre doors
round the corner and down Bourke-street to
Russell-street, indicated that Her Majesty’s was
full of the most expensive people. Several regi-
ments of foot-patrons besieged the doors; but
terror of a rushed house had sent people early, and
they were mostly tucked in snugly, like pressed
figs, by curtain-rise. In the interval many who
had rushed dinner, wandered out for coffee in the
foyer. There were some exquisite gowns. Mrs.
Edwards wore a complete envelope of Maltese
lace, the color of which made her hair look like
maize-tassels silk. Mrs. Tallis was gowned in
dull-rose silk, bound tightly with jet. Mrs. Harry
Kirltby swathed herself in a pink scarf. Billy
Williams brought his handsome wife in black
with a green fillet in her bronze hair. Mr.
“ Dewar ” Theile was another husband who
had a beautiful helpmate under his wing.
Mamma Atherton brought two pretty daughters
in peacock cloaks; one of the two has just grown
up in time to take the place of newly-wed
sister, Mrs. Ben Osborne. Fan Dango-Mackie
was in a box with hubby ; she had. to come out
of her ermine mufflings to acknowledge an enthu-
siastic “hand” from the gallery. Katherine
Mcßryde engineered a schoolgirl party. Mamma
Mcßryde kept to her country castle, but the 17-
year-olds simply had to see “ Higgy.”
I always suspected that nine-tenths of the
women go to musical comedies to see the dresses.
They proved it on Saturday by applauding the
frocks, and doing it openly and unashamedly.
Miss Gibbs has been provided with a new library
of dresses for the Melbourne season. Florence
Vie wore a white cloth dress that brought down
the house with a very special clatter.
Dancer Ivy Schilling got a splendid reception.
She is a St. Kilda girl, and has been with the J.
C. Williamson firm for years. In charm and
talent she is well ahead of most of the imported
dancers we have paid to see at various times.
During the first act many opera-glasses were
kept levelled at the “ models ” hung on thestands
“ on the roof,” as Bertie Wright calls the elevated
showroom. The stage-management is cute in
having a smart assistant to trip downstairs every
now and' then with a perfect duck of a cloak or a
petticoat over her arm, or a hat poised on her
hand. It is a gorgeous clothes show, and no mis-
take. Nellie Wilson, as head chiffon-planner,
nearly takes one’s breath away, and little Alma
Barber has a new dress of painted ehiffon like
butterflies’ wings, which demands the last gasp of
admiration.
Admiral Bridges has carried off daughter Gladys
to the Fog and mamma. Mrs. Bridges, that most
handsome of our dames, is in London, launching
two other daughters into its whirl-pool gaieties ;
“Marjie,” the younger, has just put her hair up
into fashionable grown-up swathings, and plunged
nto debutancy through a ball of great magnifi-
cence at the gorgeous Ritz.
The clouds of discord have been cleared
from the Harvester industry, and the sun-
shine of peace shines once more. Indeed
the clouds of hostility need never gather if
the belligerents adjourned before coming to
blows to the genial atmosphere of D.C.L.
wisdom. Nothing makes brighter the smiles
of peace and prosperity than the sunny wis-
dom of D.C.L., the Whisky of the Vise.-'
Trawalla, where the ex-naval family grows
lambs and other valuable beasts, lies between
Beaufort and Ballarat, and has a fascinating home-
stead. There is a turreted castle of a house, with an
expansive flagged courtyard. Though so long off
the sea, Bridges remains a man-o’-warsman, and
he conducts the affairs of his homestead as if he
were on the quarter-deck. That stone court-
yard is swept and scrubbed as clean as a
deck, and there are irons or something dreadful if
the Admiral finds any litter within the sacred
area. The stables share the same scruples. In
one respect, if no other, the lord of all this order-
liness is a democrat; he has built a chapel—a
magnificence of carved woods and stained glass—
and, though he is a strict churchman, he refuses to
have it consecrated to his own shepherd, as that
would exclude other denominations. Any
preacher can take his Sunday stand there —even
down or up to a Plymouth Rock.
The Admiral lias the “collector” disease in an
aggravated form. Old timepieces are one of his
enthusiasms; sundials, fat turnip-watches and
quaint Dutch and Swiss clocks can be unearthed
from almost any corner and cupboard of his fast-
ness. But the most worshipped possession is the
chair in which Nelson used to sit and dream in
his cabin.
With May begins a fury of dances; the card
that bids youth and beauty come and spin drops
in two deep. The Melbourne Dental Students
Society joins in the frivol. This toothsome collec-
tion of young men has taken St. Kilda Town
Hall for June 7, and that ball is going to be talked
about.
The yearly mayoral hop at Caulfield, our second
horse-suburb, is to happen on Thursday, July 13.
There were the usual organ effects at the Sacred
Heart Church, Malvern, the other afternoon,
when Miss Maude Smithwick said the customary
‘‘ I will ”to Dr. Frank Davies. The bride is the
youthful chick of a St. Kilda J.P., and the ’groom
is the son of ex-Attorney-General Davies.
Maud McCaughey, daughter of Mrs. John
Fisken and the late David McCaughey, is to be
married to Leslie Macpherson on June 1.
■ Another approaching wedding is that of Tillie
Gourlay to Lieutenant G. H. Watson, son of
Colonel Watson. The joyous event will happen
on Wednesday, June 7, at St. George’s, Malvern.
Australian sculptor Harold Parker and his lady
are nesting in these parts for a month or two.
The clever fellow is making a popular reappear-
ance in pursuit of pleasure and business. He has
several important commissions from artistic ad-
mirers, and is also to chisel a panel for the Sydney
Art Gallery. Mrs. Parker, you may remember,
is a daughter of Tommy Robinson, Queensland’s
Agent-General in London.
One of the few inward-bound travellers of last
week was Mrs. Harpy Creswick. Mamma-in-law,
Mrs. Alec Creswick, picked a nice blue day for the
welcome-home party, and arranged a choice musi-
cal programme for those who liked to stay indoors
and listen. Una Bourne at the piano, Olga
Cooper with her ’cello, and warbler Lewis with
his baritone were the artists responsible. Tea
was served at tables decked with delphiniums
under golden tissue streamers. Justice a’Beckett’s
wife was among the guests; and Mrs. Hodges,
just returned from her Second wedding trip
abroad, brought daughter Gwladys Chirnside.
Mrs. Charlie Lempriere wore weeping plumes in
her hat, and Mrs. Reggie Morrison’s blue dress
was the exact shade of the delphinium decorations.
Hostess Creswick, in blue veiled satin, had Mrs.
Bride Creswick assisting her to “receive” in an
autumn-leaf bower in the hall.
Major C. L. Gregory, of the 19th Lancers, is
here for keeps, with Mrs. Gregory. An exchange
officer from India, he has been transferred from
Sydney, where he had been giving an eye to
Young Australia’s military training. Major F.
A. Wilson, D. 5.0., who was Director of Military
Training, becomes Director of Operations—of the
eyes-right sort. Major Gregory was long ago
bitten by the golfing microbe, and is already be-
ginning to measure brassies with champions here.
When he isn’t soldiering or golfing he is risking
his neck as a cross-country rider.
Queen Mary has bought a picture that is caus-
ing a little stir in Melbourne. It is a portrait by
Shirley Fox, the English painter, of Miss Rose
Gayer, a sister of Mrs. Henry Cornish, Mrs.
Cornish has gone to England, and is to
carry the pictured lady out of the London fogs
for a sunny holiday-on the Continent., Hubby
Henry Cornish is to go round by the Eastern and
Siberian route, and meet his wife in America on
the return trip.
A girl who is making her contralto voice heard
in the land is Eileen Shettle. When Katherine
Grey was playing “ The Dawn of a To-morrow,”
Eileen’s was the invisible voice which sang
an ecstatic hymn. There was much remark
on that voice. Miss Shettle is a Williamson
chorus girl who was playing with “Our Miss
Gibbs” in Sydney, but was brought over to Mel-
bourne to sing it a hymn. When she went back
. with Florence Young and “ The Dollar Princess,”
the bereaved Dawn refused to have any other
voice, and the orchestra wailed mournfully
instead.
Reginald Wykeham, of the Hugh J. Ward co. ,
has taken over the amusing band of mimes now
that Hugh is settling down with J. C. William-
son, Ltd. They will appear in “Seven Days” in
Melbourne in about ten days. (This looks like a
paradox, but it isn’t.)
Alice Crawford, the stately Bendigonian, moves
along in a solid London success. She is lead in
the present Shakspearian season at the Coronel
Theatre, London.
Dolores has been accumulating more than cash
and laurels in the South Island of M.L. Mrs.
Rumor asserts that the sweet singer has been
annexing acres and a sheep or two. She is now con-
quering the North Island in a musical sense. For
her first concert in Wellington the queue stretched
from the Opera House away into the distance, and
terminated only at the city’s back-door cliffs.
And many ordinary eight-o’clock arrivals were
turned away.
If the Asche-Brayton people, when they return
to these parts, stage everything that they are
credited with having put into their play-box for
the purpose, the season will run to about seven
years, or there will be two changes a day. The
yery latest added to the list is “ Kismet,” which
George No. 5 recently witnessed at the Garrick.
In Ballarat harems are known now as the
Otherwise. A drapery firm put two harem-
skirted damsels in the shop-window, and thereby
caused a crowd to gather. The P.M. looked hard
at the Police Offences Act, which says that you
shall not obstruct the path “ by allowing any cart
or animal to remain across such footpath or
carriage road, or by placing goods thereon, or
otherwise.” The “otherwise” does it, said the
P.M., and fined the draper £1; so “Otherwise”
the new fashion is as far as Ballarat is concerned.
Outback has met and fled from the Harem.
The wearer, garbed in white and with a white
veil floating from her hat, came cycling down a
hill towards two men in a buggy. The shocked
horse, which does not read the fashion notes,
gave one look and bolted. Result: Two broken
heads, a splintered buggy, and a policeman’s
notebook full of bright and original remarks
about the Sex and its vagaries.
One can almost see a new St. Mary’s College
arising within the University of Melbourne.
Already there is a Newman Club, composed of
R.C. students; it has just had its first annual
soiree—a quite brilliant affair —and out of that is
bound to grow something larger.
Statistician Knibbs, having threatened to ask
for a £5O penalty in cases where wrong ages were
given in census papers, has been inundated by a
flood of 3000 letters from contrite ladies in Yic.-
toria. Now he is thinking of having a form
printed to facilitate corrections in the other
States. A penitent form ?
Two hundred University grads, met one night
during the week at the Grand, and ate much food
in many courses, and finished up with toasts and
learnedly frivolous speeches some time before the
dawn. The name of each lion and the year of
graduation was printed on the back of the menu.
The veteran graduate owned to 1862. The pro-
fessors had their own annual supper at the same
hostelry some nights later.
Professor Osborne, who knows more about pre-
serving health than most people, is off for a
European trip, and the Commonwealth Govern-
ment has asked him to represent Australia at the
international hygiene conference and exhibition
to be held at Dresden.
The new President of the Victorian Chamber
of Manufactures is William McNeilage, who, when
he isn’t manufacturing glass bottles, holds the
Caledonian Society together. He hails from
Glasgow, but is an energetic and valuable Aus-
tralian. His father was responsible for the first
glass bottle made in Victoria ; and as it would be
impossible for fishermen to carry their bait and
experienced travellers to transport the most pre-
cious part of their luggage without the brittle
implements, the family deserves to be kindly
remembered by every Australian who uses a
corkscrew.
From my Adelaide correspondent
Last week was an orgy of gaiety. Our hotels, hasheries
and bars have been crammed to bursting point. The
Adelaide Cup and the Chamber of Manufactures’ Confer-
ence occurred in unison.
Queer how these sternly utilitarian male conferences
invariably coincide with race meetings—or Burns-
Johnson fights. The conferencers were banqueted
heavily, and some tons of oratory were projected by and
at them. Government House added a lighter touch by
distributing cards for a garden party. That is, it
should have been a garden party, but Fate de-
creed otherwise. Why, on that day of all, a belated
heat-wave should have given way to a steady
downpour, no one knows. But it was so,
Hence the garden party became an indoor recep-
tion, the thousand-odd guests dwindled to 500, and the
band had a huge marquee and a soggy lawn all to itself.
Vice-regality must have had a strenuous morning up-
ending all its arrangements ; nevertheless, the show ran
on well-oiled wheels, and those of the elect who braved
the deluge rejoiced in their neighbors’ absence and the
increased elbow-room for themselves in a Government
House where elbow-room is none too plentiful. The
dressing was good. Those who doubt the prosperity of
S. Aus. need only look to its frocking. Not long since
Adelaide was a synonym for dowdiness. Now we can
ruffle it with the best—sometimes!
En passant, why only sometimes? Where do smart-
frockers hide themselves and their clothes on ordinary
working days? You can walk the entire length of
Rundle-street and not see one really smart woman. The
Contrast to Collins-street is huge. Can you picture the
Block a confused mass of perambulators, “go-carts”
and women who are certainly clothed, and equally cer-
tainly not dressed ?
There is a movement afoot to close Rundle-street to
those sellers of flowers and fruit who dispense their
goods from band-carts. The reason given is that the
hawkers pay no rent while their shopkeeper rivals do. I
shall be sorry if the street sellers go. Their barrows are
cheerful spectacles, and their wares sound and cheap.
Why should we make a fetich of Rent ?
Goodwood Day owed nothing of its success to the
weather, which was vile. Indescribably hot, with a tear-
ing north wind that scorned dust and blew pebbles and
bricks. And yet some women wore furs ! However, it
was a cheerful crowd, if a hot one, and the racing was
good. Monday made ample amends. For once in a way
Cup Day fell on a public holiday and the crowd,
which numbered many t’other siders, was vast. The
only fly in the ointment was the Cup start. A section of
the fool-populace got on the track just in front of the
start. The policeman reducing them to reason had
a restive mount, which blundered into the field, with
disastrous results ; and immediately after, the gong rang.
On Friday night the Girls’ Realm sought to add to its
funds by a subscription dance at North Adelaide. A
modest ss. included everything, and an energetic com-
mittee saw to the selling of the tickets. The Guild has
“ caught on ” here, and does a lot of useful work in a quiet
w'ay.
The Literary Theatre staged Charles McEvoy’s “ David
Ballard ”on Saturday. A club, formed lately in connec-
tion with the theatre, is busy scraping together some
sticks of furniture ; and to aid in that necessary busi-
ness a special performance is billed for next week. The
programme of four plays includes one by Bernard Shaw,
whose “Arms and the Man” Adelaide playgoers re-
garded with a suspicious eye when Julius Superbus
staged it here.
Sincerely yours,
JOHANNA.
Massina and Co. write, re the pioneer
printeries of Melbourne, that the ancient com-
positor Ward shouldn’t be credited with founding
the Australian Journal— the Massinas founded
it themselves in 1865, producing it first at a shop
in Little Collins-street.
The McGhoulman section of the N.S.W.
Labor Cabinet is a silent and disgruntled
crowd these days. It begins to realise that
leaders who assist in the triumph of the
party’s traditional and irreconcilable foes
by humiliating its friends, and who play in-
to the hands of a press which is intractably
hostile, do not know enough to come in out
of the wet. And while it isn’t a pleasant
thing to suspect that of oneself, it is even
less pleasant to suspect that one’s own fol-
lowers suspect it too.
“John Drayman”: A majority of the peo-
ple of Australia having decided (for the
present) not to take the short cut to the exe-
cution of the Legislative Councils, it is now
up to the State Labor parties to concentrate
their efforts on that particular obstruction
in their respective States. If it could have
been conclusively shown that in the Referen-
dum fight the issue really was property-
elected or nominee Upper Houses versus
Democracy, not one State would have re-
jected the Federal request. But it was not
made clear. Confining the struggle to that
proposition will make it so clear that the
funeral of the Councils is bound to ensue.
What State Laborites will lead the way?
Soon after the details of the Federal land-
tax were announced, Fat said his experts
had made the most careful calculations,
and, instead of the estimated million, the
revenue —“extortion,” he called it—would
be at least three millions. Now, most of the
returns having been received, the Commis-
sioner announces that the revenue will be
about the officially estimated million. As
Fat wouldn’t like this paper to call him a
plain liar who never called in any expert
at all, it is driven to the horrible suspicion
that he has been undervaluing his property;
and in that- connection the Commissioner no
doubt has his eye on recent press reports to
the effect that “the landowners of So-and-so
met yesterday and decided that the value
of the land in their district for land-tax
purposes was such-and-such.” That sudden
shrinkage of twd-thirds in Fat’s estimate
calls for some explanation.


FACIAL TREATMENTS
To Obtain and Retain Beauty of the Skin.
FOR A DRY SKIN.
Dryness and harshness of the skin are due to the lack
of natural oil in it. To increase or restore the fat-con-
tent of the skin, the following home treatment is essen-
tial: Valaze Skin Food for night use, and the Novena
Cerate during the day ; Valaze Skin Tonic for bathing
the face in the morning, and Novena Sunproof and
Windproof Cream, as a protective agent, should be
thoroughly rubbed into the skin and some Novena
Poudre dusted on before leaving the house.
Washing the face with soap and water had best be
stopped till the condition of dryness has improved, ihe
cleansing properties of Novena Cerate will prove quite
sufficient for every purpose of hygienic cleanliness.
FOR A GREASY SKIN.
A skin comes within this description when it is ab-
normally oily and shiny. The remedy is frequent
washing in warm water with Valaze Soap and Vosk-
pasta, and the application three or four times a day of
Valaze Liquidine, which has a direct influence on the
pores, and, stimulating them, frees them of over-abund-
ant secretion. In addition Valaze Blackhead and Open
Pore Cure should he used at night, followed by a slight
application, by means of a hot towel, of Valaze Skin
Food, in accordance with special directions given for
the purpose. Allowing the Blackhead and Open Pore
Cure to remain on the face for about a quarter of an
hour before rinsing produces more effective results. A
suitable Face Powder is Valaze Complexion Powder,
while Snow Lotion is to be recommended as a liquid
powder.
FOR A NORMAL SKIN.
This treatment preserves the good appearance of the
skin, and prevents injury, within reasonable bounds.
The yielding oneself to preservative treatment, by
which the face is enabled better to withstand the strain
of modern life, and to retain the color and brightness
and the delightful velvet surface typical of youthfulness,
requires but the merest fraction of the day’s routine.
Ladies who are unable to come to Madame Rubinstein
require the following preparations for home treatment.
Valaze Skin Food, Yalaze Complexion Soap and Vosk-
pasta, Yalaze Complexion Powder in summer and for
night functions generally, and Novena Poudre in winter;
Novena Cerate for cleansing the skin when it has been
exposed, and Valaze Liquidine for use once a day in the
summer, or generally when the face is inclined to per-
spire.
LINED WRINKLED SKIN.
The use of Valaze Skin Food combined with the usual
hygiene of cleanliness, with an occasional stimulating
application of Valaze Skin Tonic, and a little massage
to retain the natural tautness of the skin of the face, is
practically all that is ordinarily required to ward off
Time’s dreaded tracings on the face. But when they
begin to appear, the relaxed tension of the skin can be
restored, and further inroads checked, by the combined
action of Novena Extrait, Valaze Skin Food, and
Novena Cerate, which last should be massaged into the
skin with regular persistence, and afterwards carefully
wiped off. Special directions for massage will be sup-
plied, and the exercises can be performed either with
the fingers or by means of specially constructed Mas-
sage Rollers, by the use of which every undue stretch-
ing of the skin can be avoided.
To counteract and prevent lines near the eyes, or
“crowsfeet,” Novena Extrait is warmly recommended,
and with it explicit directions for eye massage will be
sent along, especially devised to heighten the circulation,
and add nourishment to the lined, relaxed parts.
BLACKHEADS, PIMPLES and
BLOTCHINESS.
The use of Valaze Soap and Voskpasta is essential
every morning, to be followed with a rub of Valaze
Liquidine. Blackhead and Open Pore Cure No. 1 is
to be used at night on retiring, and should be left on
the face for about a quarter of an hour before rinsing.
Afterwards apply a small quantity of Valaze Skin Food
according to special directions which are sent with the
preparation.
In more obstinate cases Valaze Blackhead and Open
Pore Cure No. 2 is necessary, and a little Valaze Skin
Food should be rubbed in immediately before going to
bed, according to special directions.
FRECKLES, SUNBURN and SALLOWNESS.
In this branch of treatments great progress has taken
place, because not only can one totally rid oneself of
them when they have once made their appearance, but
—and this is more to the point—these blemishes can
now be virtually prevented.
By that new and, as a scientific achievement, almost
marvellous specific, Novena Sunproof and Windproof
Cream, those particular rays of the sun which cause the
pigmentation or freckling of the skin are made ineffective
and become paralysed, as it were. The cream is applied
by thoroughly rubbing it into the skin before going out,
after which some powder should be dusted on.
Now, as to removing freckles, sunburn, and sallowness,
there again the stimulating properties of Valaze Skin
Food come into play, by which, after penetrating into it,
the skin is enabled to throw off the pigment deposited in
it by the sun’s chemical action. For more obstinate
freckles and sallowness the Yalaze Freckle Fasta is re-
commended.
FOR REDNESS OF NOSE and CHEEKS.
For home treatment the use of Novena Red Nose
Ointment and Powder as well as Valaze Liquidine is
recommended as a first resort, to be followed, if neces-
sary, by a special Astringent and Bleaching Pasta.
In the more advanced stages of the trouble, when small,
veinlike blood vessels become noticeable, home treat-
ment should be taken at the Valaze Massage Institute
by one of the three methods practised and devised by
Drs. Unna, Lassar and Ivapp.
Valaze Skin Food, 3/6, 6/6, 6d. postage. Valaze Soap,
2/2 posted. Valaze Powder and Novena Poudre, 2/- and
3/- a box. Valaze Skin Tonic, 3/6, 6d. posted. No-
vena Sunproof Creme, 3/6. Novena Cerate, 2/- and
3/6. Valaze Voskpasta, 3/-. Valaze Liquidine,
5/- and 8/6, 6d. postage. Valaze Blackhead and
Open Pore Cure, 2/10, posted. Valaze Snow Lotion,
3/6, 6d. postage. Novena Extrait, 7/6, 6d. post.
Valaze Massage Rollers, Single 8/6, set of two 18/0,
full set of three in case 25/-.
All orders accompanied by remittances, for advice, and
for appointments, should be addressed to Mile. Rubin-
stein, Dept. 20, 158 Pitt Street, opp. Strand, Sydney,
and 274 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Holds the Record for Australia.
The Popularity of these Cars has made it necessary to greatly increase our shipments.
The Photograph shows Cars ex s.s. Swanley, viz., 23 Cars complete, which is the largest number ever received in
Australia by one steamer. Sales on this scale prove conclusively what the motoring world think of the Hupmobile
£220
20-H.P.
Four
Cylinders
‘■PHIiACKERLEY '
T*LBOTI CAR*
MimervJl cors
I 1
i- *v
£220
c3>.' • . ':
20-H.P.
Four
Cylinders
SPECIFICATION.
ENGINE.—Four cylinder 20 horse-
■ power—water cooled—3Jin. bore
by 3§in. stroke, offset crank shaft.
TRANSMISSION.—SeIective slid-
ing gears.
CLUTCH.—Multiple disc type.
FRONT AXLE.— Drop forging, i
beam section.
REAR AXLE.—Shaft drive, large
section, high ground clearance.
BRAKES.—Two, hand and foot, on
rear hubs internal expanding.
RADIATOR.— With vertical tubes
and straight fins.
STEERING GEAR.—Rack and
pinion type, with rakish slant.
CARBURETTO R .—Automatic,
with hot air connection.
IGNITION.—Bosch High Tension
Magneto.
INSPECTION
CORDIALLY
INVITED.
ghjhjhjkjhk
INTERESTING
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE
I. PHIZACKERLEY, 169 Elizabeth St.,
Sydney.
SOLE AGENT,
SPECIFICATION.
TYRES.— Thirty inches by three
inches—G. &J. standard clincher.
Wheel Base—B6iu.
Track —Standard—4ft. 6in.
FRAME.— Pressed Steel.
SPRINGS.—Semi-elliptical in front
and patented cross spring in back.
WEIGHT.— IOcwt. complete, with
regular equipment.
PRICE. —Car complete with two
side lamps, tail lamp, horn, tools,
repair kit and pump, £220.
ACCESSORIES (Extra!. Pair
Acetylene head lamps and genera-
tor, fitted, £7 10s.
Folding glass wind screen, £7 10s.
Hood with side curtains, £7 10s.


Rexona,
The Rapid Healer, is an ointment which heals
with remarkable rapidity. Unlike the old-
fashioned ointments, which are very slow in their
action, Rexona speedily relieves after a very few
applications. Sold in triangular pots at Is. Gd.
and 3s.*
-o
This Woman Spent Weeks
in Agony Until She Tried
the Tonic Treatment.
Many who are tortured with Neuralgia
will read with interest the statement of Mrs.
J. Adcock, of Bunbury, W.A., who was cured
of a very severe case by Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills. * Her experience is only one of many,
as these pills have cured a host of cases, and
those who have used them for neuralgia
have gone on sound medical lines. Neural-
gia is a nervous disorder, and experience
has proved that there is no better nerve tonic
than Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills. Mrs. Ad-
cock, whose husband has a store on Whites
Road, lives at the corner of Railway Parade
and Carey Road. She stated
“We were living at. Derby, and the climate
there affected my nerves and brought on
neuralgia. I suffered dreadfully for weeks,
and in spite of all the remedies I tried I
could not find any relief. The pain was
present all the time. I could not sleep or
eat, and fell away in looks. I would try
applications of hot salt and hot bran, and
anything that I might get a little ease from.
Every nerve of my face gave me pain. It
would throb up to my temples and affect the
back of my eyes. I could not see to read or
sew. At night I could not sleep. I would
rise and walk about quite frantic. It was
in cold weather and I dreaded to go outside,
the nagging shooting pains always felt worse,
and I would often have to bandage my face
to avoid a chill. I don’t know how I got
through the day’s duties, but they had to
be done. I tried many remedies all in vain,
then I read in a newspaper about Dr. Wil-
liams’ Pink Pills and Mr. Adcock got them
for me out of our store. They gradually
toned up my system, and drove the neuralgic
pains away. I am always glad to recom-
mend this tonic, for I have never had an
attack since, my health remaining capital.
I took three boxes altogether.”
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are sold by
chemists and storekeepers, or sent by maii,
post paid on receipt of price 2s. 9d. per box,
six boxes 15s. 3d. by the Dr. Williams’ Medi-
cine Co., of Australasia Ltd., Sydney.
ghjhjhjkjhk
Our Special
Elastic Truss
enables ful-
lest activity
with a mind
free from
worry. Pro-
perly sup-
ports and
protects, and
has no irri-
tating steel
DENYER
©
Single, 17/6;
Double, 22/6
Call or write.
band. We assure exact fit. DENYER BROS.,
Makers of Trusses and Abdominal Belts, 281
GEORGE St', (opp. Hunter Sc.l, SYDNEY ; and at
Melbourne, cr of Su anston & Lonsdale Streets, i
POLITICAL
POINTS
j The latest Referendum returns show that,
while in some electorates there was a bare
Majority for “Yes,” in a great many others
(here was a beer majority for “No.”
j Having for the moment defeated the Na-
tional proposals, the Slowgressive dailies
furn quite naturally to the discussion of
mammoth pumpkins. The Argus has dis-
covered one which “turned the scale at
1271 b., being 171 b. heavier than the one re-
cently mentioned ,as having been grown in
Gippsland.”
Hurried news item (13/5/T1) concerning
the whereabouts of our old friend Nippon,
who set off recently to find the Pole :
j Thirty Japanese from the exploring ship Kainan
Maru have landed at Yaucluse, and intend to camp
there for three months.
The pole that Nip is apparently keeping his
eye on is the one that grows above the
fortifications at Sydney’s sea entrance.
This Labor legislation is driving Capital
out of the country at an appalling rate. In
1908, according to the Economist, the new
British investments in Australasia totalled
£4,028,200; for last year, with a Common-
wealth Labor Government in office most of
the time, the, total was £13,385,200. A
part of the explanation, no doubt, is that
early in the year the country got rid of the
political crowd which thought the best way
to protect foreign investments in Australia
was to. pay for a battleship to float in the
English Channel.
It is gratifying to observe how Private En-
terprise continues to prove its superior
claims to the support of the public. To
the chorus of clamor for more subsidies
from the N. S. Wales Government, the voice
of Prince Alfred (Sydney) Hospital has
just been added. Its position, on last year’s
figures, is something like this: Outgoings,
£29,000; income, Government subsidy
£17,000; donations and charges £700; de-
ficit £5OOO. So that, even when Sosh pro-
vides 60 per cent, of the income, old, drivel-
ling Anti-Sosh can’t make ends meet.
F. M. B. Fisher, a Maoriland M.P. who
visited Victoria during the Referenda cam-
paign, and attached himself to the Right
Thinking party, said at the final “Liberal”
rally in Melbourne Town Hall:—
The amended Constitution would not keep out the
American Trusts. If all the State Parliaments were
swept away there would be only one Parliament for
the combines to buy, and no man could tell him
that the Federal Parliament would not be as easily
, bought as any other.
As a judge of honesty and purity of pur-
pose in public men, Fisher may be qualified
to speak. Still it isn’t so very many years
since the crash over the “Seddon voucher.”
The Coal Vend strongly urged the Com-
monwealth Government to obtain its own
fuel mines the other day, when asked to for-
ward samples of Newcastle coal to Britain
for test purposes in connection with, the
boiler construction of the cruiser-battleship
Australia. It wasn’t that the colliery pro-
prietors gave the advice in so many words ;
they simply said, in effect: “You’ll get no
samples sent to England for nothing, no mat-
ter whether the object is to improve the de-
fence of this country or not. Our troubles!
And that is only how we’re feeling just now;
later on we might not feel inclined to let
you have coal at any price. . So, if you’ve
got any horse-sense concealed about you, re-
sume some of the mines we got from the
country for practically nothing, or open up
hew ones.” And, as the Government paid
for the shipment of the samples without a
jnurmur, the probabilities are that the ad-
vice was well and favorably received.
ALWAYS RECOMMENDS IT.
“ On a number of occasions during the past three
years I have used Chamberlain’s Colic, Cholera
and Diarrhoea Remedy, and cannot speak too
highly of it for giving ease and relief.” says Mr.
J. H. Bickerstaff, of Napier, N.Z. “I might also
mention having recommended it to customers who
were equally well pleased with results. For pains
in the stomach, diarrhoea and dysentery there is
nothing equal to Chamberlain’s Colic, Cholera and
Diarrhoea Remedy.”*
A. C. Morley, the Melbourne barrister
who, in company with ex-Postmaster-Gen-
eral Gurr, was walloped out of sight at the
last Victorian elections by Labor-man Plain,
intends to have another try for the Geelong
State seat. He will find the job more hope-
less than it was last time. Every good
Australian in the district is bound to Plain
by ties of steel for the fine fight which he,
a State member and a prosperous farmer,
put up on behalf of the Referenda proposals.
According to the Sydney daily press, a
“caucus” of the N.S.W. Parliamentary Labor
party was held last week, while about the
same time a “conference” of the “Liberals”
took place. A caucus is all that is tyranni-
cal, despicable, and Socialistic, but a con-
ference is noble, disinterested and heroic.
While the former attacks the home and the
marriage tie, the latter is full of the milk of
human kindness. Hence a secret business
meeting of the political “Liberals” may be
thrice blessed and praiseworthy, while a se-
cret business meeting of the political Labor-
ites is accursed and unholy. Some people
may have a difficulty in differentiating in
this way, but the word of the daily press
may be taken that it is so.
Refreshing item in the S. M. Herald :
Mr. James Dunlop, a member of the Scottish Com-
mission, writing to the Kilmarnock Standard an
account of his visit to this State, refers to meeting
Mr. John Ross, of Messrs. Ross Bros., the well-known
pastoralists. “He says,” writes Mr. Dunlop, the
proposed Federal land-tax will cause them (Ross
Bros.) to sell the bulk of their land, from which he
expects to realise about £1,000,000 sterling.”
This John Ross has for years been a shining
light in the so-called Farmers and Settlers
Association, which has put up a persistent
bluff of fighting for the small man. Inci-
dentally it opposes Labor, the graduated
land-tax, and anything else of a progressive
nature. Noting the existence of members
like John Ross —unfortunate farmers who
are threatened with having to struggle along
with a million pounds of cold cash —it is
not so difficult to understand why the F
and S. Ass. has opposed the graduated land-
tax and the men who fight for such legisla-
tion.
From Paris Nesbit: —
A recent Bulletin describes me in words which
suggest that I have become a Conservative. If it is
libellous to call a man a Socialist, what is it to
call him a Conservative ? Please note that I left the
Labor party because my hopes of its becoming a
National party were falsified. It has, on the con-
trary, become clearly a party representing manual
labor alone. But my political opinions are exactly
the same as they were when I carried the Labor
flag through my Barossa election tour, with the sole
exception that, for reasons with which I will not
trouble' you, I do not believe in the abolition of the
Legislative Council. Having been elected to a very
high position on the Labor party plebiscite for the
last Federal election but one, I was jockeyed out of
my position, and Mr. Blundell was put in it by the
machinations of some of the party’s Adelaide wire-
pullers, who, though they dared not oppose me
openly, did not scruple to slander me behind my
back. I hold the names ; of two of these gentlemen
for future reference, if necessary.. But I cannot be
too grateful to the Divinity which overruled my pur-
pose of representing the Labor party in the Federal
Parliament. I should have had to leave the party
for the reason I have above mentioned.; and this
might have been painful if the party had sent me
to Parliament.
So Paris Nesbit left the party because it
wasn’t shaping towards Nationalism. Yet
when the party split into a State Frights
section and a Nationalist section, he joined
the section which was fighting against Na-
tionalism. Nesbit’s appeal, therefore, dis-
missed ; costs against the appellant.
A STURDY REBEL.
COUSIN JACK C HOIKMASTER: “ ’Ere! thee
baazers! Em alius, fellin’ av 'ee that when
’ee do sing A-b-r-a-h-a-m thee shtt’st say
Obb-rom.”
BILLY BILCOCK (double bass): “Well, I never
’eeard the man called no such naame before,
and darnny if I’m goin’ call ’n that now. ”
Westralia has a weird way of selecting
its Labor candidates, which probably ac-
counts for some of its weird Labor mem-
bers. Anybody who holds a Labor Plat-
form ticket can vote; and these tickets (2s.
a time) are issued in books, just as if they
were chances in a sweep. One doubtful
member lately applied for an armful of
books; and the list of mine owners and
mining sharks who have now become hold-
ers of Platform tickets reads like a report
of “those present” at a wild-cat meeting.
“S.SMr. “W.R.W.” (B. 4/5/T1) is
quite cruel to me because of my surprise at.
Socialists’ appreciation of Nietzsche, the
philosopher of aristocracy. I expressed gen-
tle astonishment at their delight in him,
and “W.R.W” “wonders where such delight
exists outside the fertile imagination of
‘S.S.’ ” Possibly “W.R.W.” has not yet
heard of G. Bernard Shaw, an exuberant
appreciator of the wonderful German. Has
he come across one Wells, novelist, another
Socialist to whom Nietzsche is a joy for
ever? The articles in the New Age are
often strongly flavored with Nietzscheistic
teaching, writers in the little local Social-
ist quote “Antichrist” and “Zarathustra”
freely, and with great apparent apprecia-
tion; and there are others. By the way, I
have not misread “W.R.W.’s” epoch-marking
article in the International Socialist ;
in fact, there is no reason outside
“Vv .R.W.’s” pleasing egotism for supposing
that I have even read it.
From the Age paean on the end of the Mel-
bourne iron-trade strike: —
Faults there were on both sides, and if one side
was less culpable than the other, we have no reason
to suppose that it has not been adequately punished.
Faults on both sides! And that comes from
the paper which has been recently thunder-
ing that all the faults were on the side of
the strikers. Evidently the Age has been
changing its mind again.
One of the quaint features of
John Weary’s Government is that,
while it is openly and proudly wav-
ing the banner of Anti-Sosli, it is
practising the doctrine of Sosh
whenever it gets the chance. Just
at present it has three new Social-
istic schemes in hand. One is the
establishment of State ship-building
yards. So anxious is the Govern-
ment to get these going that Edgar,
M.L.C., actually went down to the
site and “asked for the preparatory-
work to be hurried on as quickly
as possible.” So Edgar, of the
House of Fat, not only wants Sosh,
but wants it urgently. At Von-
thaggi, where the State owns not
only the coal mine, but also the
whole of the land on which the
town is built, a State brickworks is
nearing completion, and the first lot
of bricks will soon be available.
Finally, at the State sugar factory
at Maffra, it was found that the
farmers would not grow enough
beet to keep the machinery going;
so John’s Anti-Sosh Cabinet has
decided to grow beet itself. It has
bought 700 acres of land, and is
going to turn farmer on a big scale.
Had these things been done by a
Labor Government there would
have been an uproar; as it
is, while Fat now and then gives
a snort, the shameless embracing of
Mrs. Sosh passes without any other
comment whatever.
The emphatic Y r es vote in the trusty West
has shaken the Wilson Government horribly,
and Wilson himself, who is on the way to
the royal hatting, can’t sleep for ghosts.
The State elections will happen within six
months, and it is already made plain that
the time is to be filled in by a vigorous jury-
squaring campaign. The Redistribution of
Seats Bill was a good start; now the Pub-
lic Service is being sugared (Commissioner
Jull’s claws are to be clipped), and is being
told that if it would itself like to have a cut
at Parliament, no obstacles will be placed in
the way; and if you want (the promise of)
a railway up to your back door, now is the
time to speak.
If there is a split in the ranks of the N.S.W.
Labor party, Holman, the man who invented
what the daily press now calls the “heresy
hunt,” will be the first to suffer from the
process. He it was who, at the time of the
split in the inexperienced and distracted first
Labor party, brought a sword instead of
peace. It was he who either introduced, or
backed up, the famous “andying hostility”
motion, which turned out of that party men
with a better record than himself, and kept
them out for years. That and other exploits
in the days when Holman was a pink young
man who lectured the “stalwarts” at Leigh
House, reduced the original party from 36 to
20.
“Sandy Grain”: The
very morning that my
large, intelligent news-
pancake - warned me that
it would be impossible
for the Federal Govern-
ment, even if it were
given the powers asked
for on the Referenda, to
deal with Australian in-
dustrial conditions, ow-
ing to the great width of
territory to be covered, a
cablegram was published
from Capetown announc-
ing the third reading of
the Miners Phthisis Bill,
which provides for a levy
of £25,000 on the mine-
owners, and a Govern-
ment subsidy of a like
amount. As no footnote
was attached to the mes-
sage explaining that
Capetown is over 1100 miles from the
Rand, where most of , the miners are
employed, I immediately sent along the in-
formation with the request that it should be
printed. I presume it was swallowed by a
State Fright on the way, because I never
saw it again.
Just how the advocates of Yes-Yes were
handicapped in the Referendum Campaign
is illustrated by the fact that the P.L.L.
Executive in N.S.W. is sending out re-
quests to the affiliated leagues and unions
to pay up their capitation fees (usually col-
lected quarterly) for the year, in order to
square up the liabilities incurred during the
campaign. Whilst the vested and double-
vested interests were pouring in their
shekels for the use of the Noes brigade, the
champions of “Yes” were fighting with an
empty treasury.
State Frighters are cordially invited to
consider these wise words of the Bunbury
Herald, Bigjohn Forrest’s special Westra-
lian trumpet:—
Notwithstanding the Liberal victory in the other
States, the Herald sees no reason why the formation
of an anti-Eastern league should not take place as
soon as possible.
The Herald’s idea is that “the East” —that
is to say, the Eastern States —should be
harassed and boycotted, mainly because the
t’otherside Goldfielders insist upon being
Australians, and not narrow Westralians.
This ought to make Deakin still prouder of
his victory; it should be wonderfully com-
forting to him, as a Federalist, to know that
he had the enthusiastic support of people
who love the sister-States so much that they
propose to form a league to boycott them and
their goods, and to generally make trouble in
the family.
Cheerful item from Sydney Evening
News :
Yass, Saturday.—For the month of April no rain-
fall was recorded. There is a great scarcity of water
for household purposes, and the river is almost dry.
The country is beginning to present a parched ap-
pearance, and the outlook for winter feed for stock
is gloomy.
And that is the magnificent river on which
Australia is going to build its capital un-
less the atrocious swindle on the Common-
wealth is speedily exploded!
YOUNG AUSTRALIA'S DAY OUT!
A brilliant and joyous assembly is sure to be the
result... and for one day, at any rate, the Crown
and the child will be brought into close juxtaposi-
tion.— S. M. Herald's Coronation Spasm.
It is pleasing to see Fat condescend to de-
tails, but it isn’t always wise on his part.
Thus, in warding off Labor’s imaginary at-
tack on Wages Boards, during the Referenda
fight, Melbourne Age showed that the Boards
had given Victorian employees an additional
£3,000,000 in wages since their institution;
while the Argtjs, in recently condoling with
the - big drapery firms on their small profits,
showed that the Wages Board in that busi-
ness alone had given the employees an extra
£54,000 a year in wages. Thus Fat gives
the lie to his own assertion of a few years
back, that the statutory regulation of wages
or prices is “impossible” on account of “the
immutable law of supply and demand.”
AUSTRALIA FINDS SALVATION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The daily papers are still discovering fearsome
things that would have happened had Australia
voted “Yes” on April 26.
Thank God, the people voted “No”!
The patriotic daily press,
A thousand ills we did not guess
Has found, our grisly fate to show,
Had everybody voted “Yes.”
A horrid fear would grip the town,
Stout Capital would cross the main
Hot foot, and Anarchy would reign,
While people pulled their houses down,
And sent the bricks all back again.
No more would gooseberries be grown,
And trousers would be wiped away,
For making trousers would not pay.
Big Fat would lose a dozen stone,
And speckled hens refuse to lay.
- )
The breweries would cease to brew,
And creeks and rivers backward flow,
The Argus roll its drum and go.
Where one ache gnaws we’d all have two,
If people hadn’t voted “No.”
Fleas woqld be big as wallabies,
And day-by-day grim Want would plan
One sordid meal of stew for man.
A black financial blight would seize
And close each baked potato can.
i Thank God the people voted “Nay” 1
Thank God no anxious mother waits
With heart that widely palpitates,
i While people of Australia slay
And eat the people of the States !
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


The World’s
Greatest
ITusicians Say
That the
ghjhjhjkjhk
Is the
World’s
Greatest
PIANO
Sole
Agents
NICHOLSON 8 CO.
LiniTED,
Sydney,
Brisbane,
Newcastle,
Toowoomba,
Orange,
Warwick.
ACMAR
Jm Sheep-branding Fluid
# that lasts from shearing
W to shearing.
Yef comes out completely
in the scouring of the wool
»
DOES NOT MAT THE FLEECE
Vacuum Oil Company Propry. Ltd.
Throughout the Commonweairh
L and New Zealand. i
TRAVELLING
or MOTORING
OVERCOATS
at FARMER’S
IF we were asked to point with pride
to one particular style of overcoat
in our wide and varied assort-
ment, we should probably pick out the
particularly fine travelling or Motoring
Coat we illustrate.
Merit, stylishness, warmth and
excellence are crowded into it.
The material is Good Fancy Eng-
lish Tweed, in Green and Grey mix-
tures, Double Breasted with turn-up
cuffs, cut with full skirt and belt at
back.
Price
501-
ghjhjhjkjhk
BETTER QUALITY, 655. Also WOOL LINED, Price 84s.
DESIRABLE DRESSING GOWNS.
For these sharp, crisp, winter mornings, there’s a world of comfort to be
derived from a warm, snug-fitting Dressing Gown. We have a splendid
showing of them in the latest designs in Woollens and Camel Hair, with
rded 255., 505., 355., 405., 455., 50s. to 70s.
FARMER'S, Sydney.
sr-,r
z
•WINCHESTER
REPEATING RIFLES
.25-20, .32, .38 and .44 Calibers
Boys in America look forward to
the time when they can own their
own Winchesters. These are the rifles that have
always been used by the American cowboy and
western plainsman, who are among the best
marksmen in the world. In encounters with
the Indians and in rounding up cattle, these
hardy men have often been obliged to stake
their lives on their Winchesters. If you want
a rifle that will wear well and always be re-
liable and accurate —buy a Winchester.
Winchester Guns and Winchester Ammunition—
The Red W Brand— are made in the same
plant for each other and sold everywhere.
FOR SALE BY ALL DEALERS


BOWLANO’S
KALYDOR
FOI" SKIN
Produces soft, fair, delicate skin, heals all
cutaneous eruptions, and insures a lovely
delicate complexion to all who use it.
2/3, 4/6, of Stores and Chemists.
The British and Colonial
Aeroplane Company Ltd.
(Head Offices 8 Works: Bristol, Eng.).
Contractors to the
BRITISH AND RUSSIAN ARMIES.
THE PRICE OF A
“Bristol” Biplane
complete with 50-H.P. “ GNOME ”
Engine delivered f.o.b. Bristol is
£lOOO
This price will purchase an exact reproduction of the
machine which has been so successfully demonstrated
throughout Australia by the Company’s Pilots.
IMMEDIATE DELIVERIES.
For Further Particulars apply
SYDNEY E. SMITH, Manager,
c/o Union Bank, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents—RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Brewery and Offices :
Dowling Street, REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
A hoarse roar of derision greeted the
announcement that the weights of Lang and Lester
were 13st. 101 b. and 12st. 1141 b. respectively. Lang
looked nearer 14st. 61b., and he towered over Lester
in a most menacing way. It didn’t seem humanly
possible for the (comparatively) little fellow to last
five minutes. But when they got going, and Lester
unfolded his beautiful double shift, Lang was left
standing still. Like a flash Lester landed his left
in the middle of Lang’s fair white abdomen, caught
him over the ear, banged him on the ear again, gave
him another on the ribs, whacked the other ear to
keep things even, and bashed the jaw. Lang, in re-
turn for all that, got in only one poor smack on the
ribs. Loud praise of the visitor’s cleverness filled
the air. But the stolid Australian took it all, and
came up again for the second round, evidently de-
termined to mix things. He bored in and gave
Lester one On the jaw; Lester shook himself, and
with a wild-cat spring got home on the ear and the
cheek. As he backed off Lang caught him on the
throat with a beauty, which nearly knocked his head
off and rocked him badly. But he recovered wonder-
fully, and, rushing in, smote Lang on the chest, then
on the jaw. Lang tried to finish it, but missed, and
got one on the ear and another on the jaw for his
trouble, and then he backed off and looked wonder-
ingly at the man from ’Merica.
One thing Lang had suddenly discovered —the best
defence against the vicious onslaughts of Tahmmy’s
pupil was to attack from the jump. And he did it,
with the result that he smothered Lester’s attack and
discomfited him ; anil when Lester bashed him on tne
stomach he crossed his right and sent the visitor to
the boards. Again, however, Lang’s mental slowness
ruined his chance, for the staggering Yankee got up
and weathered the gale till the bell went. And
when it did go it was Lester who was attacking, and
not Lang. The fourth was a wild rally, and some
heavy smashing took place on both sides. Lang was
using his weight, and Lester was playing the goat
by wrestling with a stronger and bigger man than
himself when out-fighting -should have beqn his game,
as it gave his marvellous quickness more chance,
lie did most of the effective hitting in that round,
and, after a tornado of smashes, it was seen that
Lang’s old wound over his left eye had burst. In
the fifth there was more torrid work, and Lester,
catching Lang on the swing, knocked him down.
But he was up again, and fighting madly, and when
they went to corners honors were easy. The end
came in the sixth round. Twice Lester tried for a
knock-out, and got banged on fhe nose when he
missed ; but twice Lang was in the shadow of death.
Then Lester closed in, and Lang bent lief ore the
storm and turned sideways, and as he did so Lester
charged him. Lang rushed to meet him, and the
bash that should have caught Lang in the bread-
basket, went round him. But if the fist missed the
forearm didn’t, and it landed full weight on Lang’s
bony elbow. Up went the arm ; Lestev danced with
pain, and waved the member wildly in the air,
trying to make out whether he had knocked it off
or not. Lang rushed at him, and Lester dropped on
one knee —Out.
Heavy condemnation has been thrown at Lester,
but this writer does not agree, with it. At present
he is a rusher, it is true, and a scientific fighter of
the Burns calibre would have knocked him out in
the second round, as he leaves himself very open.
But he is young, and he carries a fearsome hitting
power, and his double shift is a dangerous and
beautiful manoeuvre. He has remarkable speed, is as
plucky as a bulldog, can take punishment, and hits
hard as a horse-kick every time. All he has to get
away from is that habit of rushing in wide open;
then, fighting more warily, he will have a great
future before him,
“F. Croson” : Clarence Weber’s challenge
to a heavy-weight boxer for a scuffle “all in,” got
some light thrown on it in Melbourne the other night.
One Foga Singh, a wrestler of Buttan Singh’s
persuasion, collided with three rascals in a city lane.
When a much-wanted John at last arrived, Singh’s
watch and cash were gone, and he himself was much
out of sorts. As he put it: “I am the good wrest-
ler, but they hittee me on the chin, and I lie down
and think I die. I kick and twist, but they get
the strangle-hold on me, and they Lit. I wrestle
good, but I do not know the box.” Of course they
were three to one, but they wouldn’t be accomplished
heavy-weight boxers. Would those three wastrels
have thus tackled, say, Joe Goddard or Frank
Slavin ?
The New York World’s almanac for
1911, recently issued, gives the figures of the John-
son-Jeffries disturbance at Reno (U.S.A.), as fol-
lows: Johnson—purse, £12,120; bonus, £2000;
share of picture rights, £10,000; exhibition tour
previous to fight, £5000; total, £29,000. Jeffries
—purse, £8080; bonus, £2OOO ; share of picture
rights, £13,333 ; exhibition tour receipts, £15,000 ;
total, £38,413. The gate receipts amounted to
£54,155, so, deducting the exhibition tour returns,
and allowing for a third share of the picture
which the fighters agreed to hand back to Rickard
and Gleason, the promoters collected a gross sum of
about £62,000.
“Tykes”: Re par. (B. 27/4/Y1) anent
AVaddy and his claim to the welter-weight ’ship of
South Oss. The fight alluded to by “Petramos” was
not a fight. The floor resembled an ice rink more
ttian anything else, and it was onlv luck that got
AVaddy the referee’s decision. That gentleman
himself was playfully tapped during the final
scramble. Tom Dunn still claims his right
to the title, and challenges AVaddy for a £75
trophy, which will be put up by Williamson, who
owns the fight-house, and runs Adelaide boxing bouts
when he isn’t paying fines incurred for “laying the
odds.”
“F.N.” : “Amateur” Victorian football is a
bad thing to be out of nowadays. Last season a
player was rubbed out “for life,” for giving an op-
ponent what he would have got about two years
hard for had it happened anywhere else. Then fol-
lowed the usual “indignation” meeting, at which a
crowd of glorified maniacs assembled with a hatful
of sympathy and sovereigns. And now he is allowed
to play again. AA r hen South played Essendon a
season or two ago, Billy Davis (Ess.) had his jaw
broken by a hander-out of stoush (at £4 a ween).
Although the Press geese cackled noisily, no egg
was laid, as the offender wasn’t even reported! They
went so far as to publish his name, but the League
was not to be bothered with trifles just then. In-
stead of standing down an offender for a week or
two, how about fining his club a substantial amount
(say, £2O), and handing it over to a Home for
Retired Football Pugs?
* * * *
Umpires of Vic.’s great ball game are now
protected by a space limit. It has been decreed that
in all contingencies, when the umpire has the ball,
players must stand off a specified distance of 10ft.
Apparently this was considered preferable to putting
the master of ceremonies in iron armor or a portable
brute-proof cage. An irritated ’oofballer cannot now
get in, and put in good short-arm work on the um-
pire without breaking the rules. Previously he
merely broke the umpire.
* * * *
“Snell”: The permit system is being
worked largely to the detriment of football by the
monarchs of the Vic. League. If a decent player
finds he has precipitated himself into a club of
toughs, and wants to climb out, with a view to pur-
suing the bubble in more congenial society, it is 10
to one the dictators will say him nay. AVithout their
permit he cannot play elsewhere, and the well-
intentioned bloke has the alternative of accommodat-
ing himself to his company or getting out of the
game for good. I know a couple of players in this
predicament who talk of securing the intervention
of Bro. AVillie Judkins.
♦ * * *
N.S.W. Rugby League is pushing on its
preparations for the trip to England, and last week
selected O. 11. Ford and J. Quinlan as managers.
Presumably, one will be manager and the other
treasurer, as it should not be necessary to have two
managers for a team of 28 men all told. That is,
unless the League intends to run its invasions on the
lines of the ancient Romans, who always appointed
two Consuls to command an army, the gentlemen
acting as boss on alternate days. The worst part
of managing an English-going team is the horrible
job of counting up the thrum-pieces after the matches.
The Englishman always pays his admission in either
thrums or ha’pennies; and both are the devil.
The most notable thing about League Rug-
by in Sydney on Saturday was the unholy “doing”
served out to the formidable Eastern Suburbs team
by the men of Glebe, who wear red and live near
the abattoirs. It was apparent from the start that
the men in red were out to play man and ball im-
partially, or if there was any predilection; the man
had it. The game had not been in progress more
than five minutes before the referee hauled M. F.
Burge out of the ruck and spoke earnestly to him.
But regardless of the warning, the Glebe team con-
tinued the butchery tactics, and in due time “Son”
Burge was ordered off. However, some of what was
flying about went Glebe’s way, and just before full
time a red forward was carried off, suffering from
“slight concussion.” Then one of the Eastern team
was ordered off, and the sides became more equal.
Messenger did not fizz as usual. To sparkle was im-
possible with Peter Burge grassing him every few
minutes. In fact, it was Messenger’s afternoon on
the grass. Glebe won by eight to nil, but three of
those were presented to them by Kinghorne, the
Eastern full-back. He misfielded the ball, and before
he could recover the Philistines were upon him.
Otherwise Kinghorne played a slashing game. At
the Agricultural Ground, before 20,000 mad bar-
rackers, Newtown and South Sydney tried co decide
which was top dog, but failed to do so, as, after a
particularly fine contest, each side had registered
seven points. North Sydney got busy on Balmain,
and kicked up 30 points, while the Balmainiacs
scratched up 14. The Annandale and Western
Suburbs match happened at St. Luke’s Park, and
’Dale won by a majority of three—five to two.
Young as is the League season, Glebe
and Balmain have established a reputation for serv-
ing out stoush, and their meeting at Birchgrove next
Saturday is eagerly looked forward to. Birchgrove
is the bafrackers’ paradise, and the impending scrap
should provide an opportunity for a revival in armor-
malting. The management is hereby urgently adjured
to organise a field ambulance.
* * * *
The badly-battered Union brand of Rugby
tottered through its second round on Saturday before
the usual beggarly array. At the Cricket Ground,
Eastern Suburbs delved into South Sydney and totted
up 17 points to 11. Newtown, exhilarated by the
sea-trip across the harbor, bogged into North Sydney
at a tremendous rate, and finished up with 20 to
three. The struggle between AVestern Suburbs and
Manly was as tame as a Sunday-school bun-fight,
and ended in a quiet draw with five points each.
The proverbial two men and a dog watched Glebe
wobble home unsteadily with six to Balmain’s five.
The ’Varsity found St. George a harder nut to crack
than Eastern Suburbs proved the previous week, and
just got home with a majority of three.
** V * *
Tbe Y.M.C.A. crowd that plays under
Australian rules, evidently does not know that the
cricket season is over, as on Saturday it charged
the Training College, and cut it to pieces—119 to
19. East Sydney was almost as stark, walloping
South by 76 to 24. Paddington and Newtown had
the closed-in area at Erskineville Oval, and Padding-
ton won by 15—76 to 61. Sydney rolled up North
Shore, 39 to 27. This was the closest match of the
day.
* * * *
On paper only one of Saturday’s Victorian
League games promised sport—that between Rich-
mond and ’Varsity—but things turned out otherwise.
Richmond and Uni. certainly entertained the spec-
tators, but not in the expected way. Richmond’s
18 obviously consists of two sections, which don’t
play speaks; also their kicking was lamentable. The
Students, on the other hand, marked and kicked well,
but are short of training. Consequently the Yellow
and Blacks, lasting better, got an undeserved victory
by 12 points—s 3 to 41. Collingwood, weakened by
casualties, indulged in its regular caper of taking
things easy in the first half, and overwhelming its
opponents by a “Collingwood finish.” Unfortu-
nately, Geelong got so far ahead by half-time that
an extra strenuous finish was needed, and it wasn’t
there, and the score was: Geelong 68, ’AVood, 65.
The best game of the day happened where no one
expected, in the Carlton-’Roy imbroglio. The
latter’s new boot is being licked into shape by some-
one who understands football, and Carlton got a
heavy shock when it saw the derided novices going
off with a slight lead and maintaining it right
throughout. At the finish- —45 to 43—there was
much “Blime” and “AVotsort?” Skinner’s hirelings
visited St. Kilda, and gathered together 73 points to
the Saints’ 17, and Essendon made a holy show cf
Melbourne before a select assemblage of M.C.C.
deadheads, by totting up six goals 11 behinds to
nine behinds. But nobody anticipated much else
from Melbourne.
The collisions of Melbourne Ass. clubs pro-
vided but one pleasing episode, wherein Brunswick
came into its own once more and jumped on North
very decisively. North, of course, bought its pre-
miership when it bought its Carlton stars —one of
whom, by the way, having been refused a transfer
by the League, finds his name is to be Mud. North
also makes a discovery—that the local ’bailers of
renown now fight shy of it, and listen to the seduc-
tions of other clubs. Brunswick, having assimilated
the hint lurking in two sound wallopings, had placed
its house in order, and passed the premier club a
doing—44 to 40. For the rest, Essendon hurled it-
self on ’Town, and collected 60 points to 36. ’Scray,
in like manner, spread itself over Brighton, and
raked in 69 points to 33, while P’ran and Port ac-
counted for Northcote and Preston with 141 points
to 44 and 130 points to 41 respectively. As ’bailers,
’Cote and Preston are of less account than Judkins.
The League delegates having met and
finally expunged the busted rule prohibiting pay-
ment of players, both branches of Melbourne football
are now openly professional. The four votes in the
minority represented University and Melbourne ; there
were 16 on the other side. No one mentioned pool-
ing the gate receipts or establishing a proper district
system, so the new professional era does not look at
all promising, except from the boodle standpoint.
,It means that the richer clubs will get all the best
players, and in the fulness of time there will be
only one in it —if the game lasts that long. But
the prospects of lacrosse and hockey are rising
rapidly, thank you.
Collingwood (Vic.) has adopted a means
of satisfying the cravings of the local ’oof-bawler.
For the future the executive of the club will take
25 per cent, of the gross gate for “administrative
purposes,” and the men who smite the ball and bite
the umpire will cut up the other 75 per cent, among
them. Players are to labor or to wait under signed
agreement, embracing these conditions; so ’AVood
has finally and decisively dropped the gentleman-
player idea into the dust-bin, and abandoned any
sentimental notions it may have had.
The Rugby Union game is getting bumped
out in favor of the League game in unexpected
places. Maryborough (Q.) has now 14 teams play-
ing the League game, and can’t rake up one Union
team.
* * * *
The crack M.L. 3-year-old Danube was (
patched up sufficiently to beat two ordinary hacks in ‘
the Leger Stakes at Trentham; but he was hog-fat
and dead-lame, and unless a miracle happens, the
track has seen the last of one of the greatest of
Maoriland three-year-olds since the days of Noctui-
form.
* * * *
Adelaide Cup, held for the first time for
years on a public holiday, had a tremendous crowd
at Morphettville, and put £23,387 through the
totalisator, which is more than double the figures of
four or five years ago. Eye Glass, who had two days
before run Trafalgar to “half a head” at Weight-for-
age, won with the greatest ease, and the £3 14s.
dividend was comfortably earned. Size is not every-
thing in totalisator returns. The visiting sportsmen
. who collected 445. (better than level money) on
Trafalgar in the Elder Stakes, had expected to have
to lay odds on; but the crowd hates these very short
prices, and by taking odd shots on outsiders helps
to make a respectable return. Rupert Clarke, too,
must have been surprised at picking up £ll odd on
Ipidi in the S.A. Stakes (for two-year-olds) ; visiting
horses are generally treated with more respect.
Eighteen Carat, Sparkle, and Karnattan followed
Eye Glass home in procession in the Cup; a mounted
policeman had jibbed into the track, and got bowled
over by (and with) Dyed Garments and Goodwood
almost as soon as the race began.
•X- * * *
Tattersall’s Club, Adelaide, is dealing
generously with its retiring secretary, James Moor-
house, who has helped it along for 21 years, and
seen it come out of adversity into a membership of
500 members, with a comfortable home and several
race-meetings a year. It gives him full pay for six
months, and £lOO a, year for life afterwards.
“Sandy Pannikin”: Bullock-racing, a
sport rarely, if ever, seen Near-in and not often
Outback, is to be revived at Bourke (N.S.AV.) during
Show week. The animals are saddled and bridled
horse-fashion, - and the event causes almost as much
entertainment as Arthur Adams, jun.
The. trout season closed on May 1, and the
biggest fish competition for fully-equipped anglers
was made dry-hash of by a small boy on the Tuross
River (N.S.AV.), who, with the assistance of a grass-
hopper, yanked forth a speckled fellow weighing
llllb.
Physical culturist Clarence Weber pos-
sesses a remarkable pupil in Aaron Beattie, a little
athlete, weighing about lOst. 61b. The other night
young Aaron, with one arm, lifted his teacher above
his head, and held him in the air for ssec. Clarence
weighed 13st. 12%1b. at the time.
The Yankee press is beginning to howl
at Johnson to fight Langford, and the blast is likely
to grow till it gets strong enough to blow Johnson
into the ring. Johnson, who is apparently feeling
the strain already, announced a while ago that he
would fight Samuel for 30,000, not almighty dol-
lars, but almightier sovereigns. To this the press
howled back that he was merely putting up an im-
possible price to save his skin from the hiding his
colored brother would surely inflict on him. Sooner
or later he will have to fight Langford or be branded
as a cur, and have the “Yellow Streak” flaunted at
him from Erie’s shore to the Mexican border.
* * * *
Though bad management sent hundreds
away, unwilling to face the crush at the gates, some-
thing like 10,000 persons attended Melb. Exhibition
Oval on Saturday night to see the two swiftest
sprinters on earth —Australian Jack Donaldson, lithe
and limber, 25 years old, sft. Sin. high, and lOst.
! 41b. heavy, and American Charles E. Holway, big,
strong, and square, 26 years old, 6ft. high, and
weighing 12st. 121 b. The match was an alleged
“return” to the recent meeting at Bendigo, and was
for three distances —75yds., 100yds., and 220yds.
At all three distances Donaldson got away as swiftly
as Holway, led throughout, and won handily. In
the 220yds. he was looking round. For the 75yds.,
Ikey, who pervaded the place, wanted five to two on
Donaldson, and offered two to one against Holway.
The Australian won by l%yds. in 7 3-ssec. For the
100yds. Noses desired to take seven to one on D.,
and offered four to one against H. D. won by 3yds.
in 9 4-ssee., a world’s record for a grass track. At
the last go Noses notified a scornful public that his
price as to D, was 10 to one on, while he mag-
nanimously offered seven to one against 11. The
Australian reached the tape 6yds. ahead of the
American this time, in 22 l-ssec. Altogether the
outbreak was a cheerful circumstance, and shows that
the public will once more pay out to see first-class
pedestrians, provided their records are sweet and
fresh. As the Australian won, everybody felt sure
such was the case, and departed happy and friendly.
Anyhow, Ikey’s prices didn’t hint at anything un-
savory, and Ikey generally knows.
* * * *
The annual eight-oar race of the Public
Schools of Vic. occurred at Geelong last week. Wes-
ley College and the two Grammar Schools (Melb. and
Geelong) were left in the final. While the others
clashed and broke one another’s blades, Wesley, per-
fectly steered and beautifully stroked, got away and
won by a length. Geelong ran into second place
after a magnificent sprint. This makes nine wins
for Wesley in 11 years. #
A lady with a tall show-ground record is
Airs. R. Clarke, of Grafton (N.S.W.). She has gath-
ered altogether 103 first prizes, 12 seconds, and ave
Champion prizes, besides lesser honors for details of
riding. A record, mine tink it!
N.S.W. Ladies’ Swimming Association is
trying to save its face, and succeeding badly. Having
disqualified some scores of girls for taking part in
the Public Schools’ A.A.A. carnival in the presence
of things in trousers, it suddenly realised that it
had committed suicide. After some straight, talk and
a lot of cackling, the ancient brahmapootras who run
the institution, climbed down, and, removing the
disqualification, left a caution instead. In all pro-
bability the P.S.A.A.A. will kick against the
“caution” —if it has any sense it will, and thus bill
the whole foolishness to Kingdom Come.
* * * *
Francis Birtles, the cycling overlander, set
off last week for an amble across Australia, this time
with a mate, Richard Plimmer. Birtles stuck to the
machine on which he had already done 16,500 miles
of cross-continent riding—one of Anthony Horderns
Universals. The main object of the present iambic
is to get cinematograph pictures, and for that purpose
they will strike the Transcontinental telegraph line,
thence branching oft' to various cattle runs.
* * * *
Another record, and one likely to stand
for a while, is Henri Wymaelon’s Drop. His
aeroplane upset 450 feet above the mud, and Henri
started for earth. Just when he expected to shake
hands with St. Peter he found himself m a pond,
uninjured. He scrambled out, feeling that he had
exhausted all his share of good luck in one act. .
* * * *
Road-racing cyclists are in for trouble, as
recently the Law appeared on what is known as “the
Chatsworth circuit,” with pencil and notebook, and
gathered in the names of the performers. Hurricane
riding on the roads around Sydney is to stop, say the
police, and the racing cyclist will have to put his
hand in his pocket and shell out the price of the
Sports Ground, or some other resort where there is
a track.
Australia’s old friend, cyclist Walter Ilutt,
has come to grief at last. Racing at Dresden, on a
track which is only 110 yards in circumference, he
came a buster, broke his collar-bone, sustained con-
cussion, and nearly died of shock. He was taken to
hospital. At the same meeting his partner, Johann
Stol, mentioned in this column a few weeks back,
also came down after Rutt had left, and injured him-
seir internally. Dresden track is the most dangerous
in Europe, and has an awful tale of smashes, deaths
and sudden disappearances. Time it was boycotted.
Fred White’s time from Fremantle to
Sydney was 36 days 13 hours. Birtles’s was two
hours more. The latter stages of AVhite’s journey
were made as comfortable as possible by the Con-
tinental Tyre people, who are becoming experts in
long-distance record-snaring—by deputy.
*.**.*
Fred White, who knocked two hours
off the record of Birtles from Fremantle to Sydney,
must be a bit of a wonder. Birtles knew the track
as well as he knew George-street, Sydney. It was
White’s first attempt. Birtles ran through when the
days were longest; White came over when there was
nearly three hours less light in the 24. Birtles was
a hardened campaigner; White was practically a
novice, who had never ridden more than 50 miles in
a day. White got off the track quite a number of
times, and at the last some hoodlum in the Riverina
deliberately sent him 20 miles out of his way, over
rocky hills, into a howling rain-storm. The way
White made up time after getting out of the wilder-
ness is amazing, and he is evidently a rider of high
degree. It seems that Fred White had no particular
desire to hold the record, but that some 13 years ago
Frank White, an elder brother, established a record,
which stood till Birtles ran through in December
last. Frank, having put on a waist, ordered his
younger brother Frederick to recapture that record
for the White race, and Fred went and did it.
The statistical fiend has now got loose on
the tyre-durability question in the United States,
and, for a wonder, has dug out some interesting in-
formation. Yankee makers “figure out” that a fair
run for a set of tyres is 3500 miles, but the statis-
tical fiend, after collecting reports from 145 owners,
boldly states that 5199 J miles is the average per set.
The 145 included men who ran cars under every
possible condition, and were picked with a view to
getting as fair an average as possible. Another in-
teresting discovery was that 563 f miles was the
average monthly run, and the average number of punc-
tures per month 3%. The average motorist buying
his tyres in the ordinary way required a new tube
every 3543 J miles. The inquiry ranged over 30
different makes of cars and 10 makes of tyres.
CONSTIPATION OVERCOME
BY DR. MORSH'S INDIAN ROOT PILLS.
Constipation brings many ailments in its
train, and is the primary cause of almost all
sickness. Keep your bowels open regularly
and your * blood pure, and you will escape
many of the ailments to which women are
subject. If you suffer from Constipation, the
following letter will interest you.
“I was a sufferer from Constipation and
its train of evils, dizziness, languor, head-
aches, and general uneasiness for some time,"
writes Mrs. Julia Bateman, 391 Pynnont
Street, Ultimo, “and found much trouble in
overcoming the ailment. Having used
Mrs. J. Bateman.
From a photo.
purgative medicines
without any lasting
benefit, I was per-
suaded to try Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root
Pills, and after one
dose I was wonder-
fully relieved. I con-
tinued their use, tak-
ing them on alter-
nate nights, and mj
bowels were restored
to a normal and reg-
ular condition, and
in consequence I lost
all those dreadful
sensations of dizzi-
ness and depression. I always keep the pills
in the home, and can recommend them as
an invaluable medicine for women.’


THE
an mm
LOOK FOR NAME ON STRAP,
UPPER Quality. The leather for Marshall Shoes is cut
from the center of the hide. It is
firm and flexible. It wears long and doesn t get shabby.
Leather cut from the edges of the hide mi ght
look all right, hut shoes made of it would
not give service. Therefore such leather
can t go into Marshalls. Most
makers cut the skins all up.
Add to Marshall dura-
bility the comfort result-
-Ing from true -to - nature
lasts, and the smart,
breezy styles as shown
by the illustration,
and you have in a
nutshell the
reasons for
Marshall
superi-
ority.
ghjhjhjkjhk
Half
Sizes.
No. 1504
Glace Kid BaL
The Bogo Last
21/
Send for Style Book.
Stocked by / ntho.ny Hordern & Sons
Sydney, and most other Good Dealers
Inquire of yours.
MARSHALL SHOE CO„ Richmond, Vi,
ANOTHER STYLE NEXT WEEK
Footwear for Men of Taste!
Those gents who exercise care m the selection of
their footwear will be more than satisfied with Rigney
Footwear.
Rigney Shoes are the most stylish, serviceable and
comfortable gent.’s footwear made.
If you live out of town, send for a copy of our
New Catalogue.
The Shoe illustrated is a Choice Willow Calf
Derby Shoe, Fine Stitched Welts, Perforated Vamp,
Lace Face and Cap. 22/6. 25/-. In Black or Tan.
The Rigney Shoe Go.,
"The Men’s Exclusive High-Grade Shoe Stores,"
305 George Street, Sydney; 179 a Pitt Street, Sydney.
Please note that the new shop in Pitt Street is under the
personal management of Mr. F. C. Rigney, the sole and
only proprietor of the above firm.
ghjhjhjkjhk
yj/
//a
Co
/
O
The product of
tine source only
More miles on " Shell" than
on any other.
Its perrect parity —that's
the point*
Make^
your
own
Cigarette
twice
as good
>AC
CIGARETTE
PAPER
and VBBBST
IF NOT PROCURABLE AT YOUR
TOBACCONIST APPLY TO THE AGENTS
Jacobs Bros. L! 1 ? 255? George S* Sydney
GUARANTEED 2 YEARS.
20-30 h.p. Chalmers
£,490
s=Seater
Touring Car.
40-hp. THOMAS,
6-Cylinder 7-Seater.
ROY W. SAND FORD,
181 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Also at 105 EXHIBITION STREET, MELBOURNE.
Well, of course
Anything worth doing is
worth doing well —so for
the antiseptic cleansing your
teeth need every day, use
CALVERT’S
Carbolic Tooth Powder
Local Chemists and Stores sell it.
F * C. Calvert & Co. t Manchester, Eng,
OLD ORKNEY
Real LiqueurWhiskv
LD
O BKNfj,
scol4
S' V
“W ---
W": yy- j-b J
AGENTS
Tooheys
SYDNEY
Ltd
MELBOURNE
CO
Jones
Elliott
Donaldson
BRISBANE
Douglas
Ltd.
Heseltine
ADELAIDE
Lord
Ferguson
Co
HOBART
John
McKenzie
Co
LAUNGESTON
Jonn
THE WHISKY
FOR IHE HOME
ghjhjhjkjhk
A TRIBUTE TO “B. & B.” DURABILITY
Mr. E. 0. Milton, of Oadpregonp, is a most enthusiastic B. & B. Cyclist. Just read
this letter we recently received from him :
“It affords me very much pleasure to advise you that the Model 3
B. & B. I purchased on the 16th April, 1908, has given complete satis-
faction, and is still good for a further term of hard work.
‘‘The New Departure hub is still perfect, and I can honestly recom-
mend the B. & B. Cycle to anyone.”
You would find just; as good value in one of these £11 Cycles as did Mr. Milton. Better come in and look
one over before purchasing, at any rate. Our Pitt Street Depot is open till 9 p.m. Fridays for those men
who cannot call during the day.
Bennett & Barkell, Ltd.,
Largest Cycle Building House in the State,
234 Pitt Street, and Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY,
When it comes to rapid manipulation, to
promote output, to save excessive and
needless labor, Cincinnati
Millers are right on the job. The
few parts, extreme rigidity, all levers at
operator’s hand, special Indexing Head
of entirely new design ; these are a few
of the points which make Cincinnati
Millers supreme in Power, Handiness
and High Efficiency. All sizes in stock.
Write for Complete Catalogue.
WE ARE SOLE AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS—
Thomas McPherson
8 Son,
Iron & Woodworking- Machines,
582-588 Collins St., Melbourne.
CIF.
m
THE “MOTA”
( Regd.).
x % v % v::»jr• *'•
:•*. -*.*;,»!•••, v..
The “ MOTA ” HAT is conceded everywhere t°
be the standard in style, quality and workmanship.
It is easily the most comfortable of, hats, and
equally suitable for town or country wear, for
business or holidays, for walking-, driving or riding,
for week days or Sundays, for wet days or fine days,
for warm weather or cold weather.
The “MOTA ” is THE hat that suits every head
and every occasion. Stocked by leading houses
throughout Australia, in all fashionable colors.
PRICES, 7/6 to 12/6.
If unobtainable in your district, write us direct.
THE AUSTRAL HAT MILLS, LIMITED,
ABBOTSFORD, MELBOURNE.
[ Most doctors from goodness of heart treat some
[ cases without expectation of payment, but did you
ever know of a doctor who returned fees when tie
j failed to cure ? The Union Manufacturing Com-
pany guarantee to return itjffir&Ab4mount paid if
I Wight’s RheumatfaMiinedy Ahej Canadian
f cure, does Jrotl cure jh ur
W e y this
e many failures,
__ iere have been only
thrde instances imife/e'years in which the refund
was claimed I-fyou send to 299 Elizabeth Street,
Melbourne, the company will give you full par-
ticulars and a copy of the legally binding guarantee
they issue with the remedy. The price is only
5/6 for a full month’s treatment, that is often
sufficient to cure a severe and long-standing case.
done i
matter
ghjhjhjkjhk
P ERDRIAU
Engine Packings
WE stock a splendid assortment of Engine
Packings, both Piston Rod and Flange,
that will stand highest pressures. Hers
are three leading lines: —
’•TITAN” SHEET JOINTING, being only
semi-vulcanised, is warranted to remain
tight where jointing surfaces are rough
and uneven —a splendid quality.
“ENDURIT” HIGH PRESSURE JOINT-
ING will stand where rubber packings
cannot be used, and is especially suitable
for Motor Engine and Oars.
“TITAN” HIGH PRESSURE PISTON
PACKINGS are used by all the leading
S.S. Companies, and always give satis-
faction under the highest pressures.
Ask lor a Copy of our Mechanical Rubber
Goods List.
PERDRIAU RUBBER CO., LTD.
“ The Best House for all Rubber Goods,"
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
“LINSEED COMPOUND” of 40 years’ proven
efficacy, for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis, etc.


ghjhjhjkjhk
SYDNEY’S
LEADING
JEWELLER and
SILVERSMITH.
A. SAUNDERS
A. SAUNDERS.
Crocodile Leather MOTOR BAG.
Good Quality Frame, High
class Lining, 10/0.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pair of Handsome “An-
tique” Bronzette Figures,
on Black Metal Pedes-
tal. Height, 14 inches.
25/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Miner’s MAGNIFYING
GLASS, Triple Lens,
Nickel Mounted, 5/0-
Double, 2/; Stronger,
3/6.
ghjhjhjkjhk
A. SAUNDERS.
THE A. SAUNDERS’
NEW "RIMLESS”
CLIP,
15/. 17/6-
Gild-Filled Mounts,
Solid Gold, 25/, 30/.
Secure, Light,
Comfortable.
Write for our Free
‘‘Home Eye Test
Chart,”
posted to any
address.
WE DO NOT
EMPLOY
TRAVELLERS.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Military Ebony
HAIR BRUSH, Solid
Silver Shield, Fine
White Bristles, 7/(»•
A. SAUNDERS.
Pair of Handsome “An-
tique” Bronzette Eigures,
on Black Metal Pedes-
tal. Height, 14 inches.
25/.
Morocco Leather WRITING FOLTO,
Good Strong Nickel Silver Lock and
Key, Fitted with -1 Large Divisions
for Stationery, etc., also Writing
Pad, in Two Colours, Sultan and
and Dark Green, S/<>-
A. SAUNDERS.
OAK TOBACCO JAR, Barrel Shape,
with Plated Lids, Mounts, and
Shield, Porcelain Mnts., 0/0
Quanpc
A. SAUNDERS'.
WALNUT ANEROID BAROMETER,
Highly Sensitive and Accurate, Open
Enamel Dial,
A, SAUNDERS.
GENT.’S BRUSH SET,-contains Brush,
Mirror, and Comb, in Morocco Lea-
ther Case, 10/0.
A. SAUNDERS.
LADY’S HAND MIRROR, Nicely Embossed,
S/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
SHAVING BOWL and
BRUSH, Polished
Nickel, Porcelain China
Bowl, 5/ 6-
A. SAUNDERS.
Pearl-handled POCKET
KNIFE, 3 Best Sheffield
Steel Blades, Button
Hook, Nail Cleaner, and
File. 10/6-
m
m
LADY’S EBONY HAIR BRUSH, Silver-mounted, Good
Quality Bristles, 12/G-
WE PAY
CARRIAGE ON ALL
GOODS EXCEPT
CLOCKS AND
CHINAWARE.
WE SEND
CATALOGUES OF
EACH DEPARTMENT,
POST FREE,
ANYWHERE.
SB&
u
> ,
©
m
? rh
m
m
V
. r
wlfSfi fflffilißS
A. SAUNDERS.
14-DAY WALNUT CABINET CLOCK, chiming the
Hours and Half-hours on Cathedral Gong, High-grade
Works, Handsome Silver and Brass Dial, £2/10/-
Works kept in Free Repair for 2 Years.
A. SAUNDERS.
Student’s Powerful
MICROSCOPE, in
Cedar Case,
IO'G.
A. SAUNDERS.
Maximum and Mini-
mum THERMO-
METERS, White
Japanned Case,
Metal or Opal
Scale, 8/6.
Wooden Bodies, 3/,
5/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Brass-cased Sight COMPASS, Jewelled Bar,
2-inch Card Dial, -X2/6-
A. SAUNDERS.
FIELD GLASSES, Enamel-finished Frame, Morocco
Leather Covered, Achromatic Lenses, Sharp De-
finition, 125/-, including Case and Strap. Fitted
with Compass, 27/6.
A SAUNDERS.
Round Hand READING GLASS, 1/6, 2/6, 3/6 4/6.
Rectangular Lense.s, 2/6, 3/6, up to 7/6. _
A. SAUNDERS.
GENT.’S DRESSING COMPANION. Fitted with
Every Convenience, 10/0-
A. SAUNDERS. . , -
POWERFUL S-DRAW BRASS TELESCOPE, 14in extended, 5m closed.
Light, Portable, contained in Tan Leather Case, 10/b-
«Ni
A. SAUNDERS.
SET OF CARVERS, Finest Sheffield Steel, Knife, Fork, and Steel, with Square Xylonite Handles,
in Velvet-lined Case, 10/0.
A SAUNDERS.
GENT.’S COMPANION, containing High-grade
Sheffield Razor, Nail Scissors, Corn Knife, Tweezers,
Corkscrew, and Nail Cleaner, in Solid Leather Case,
14/6- Without Corkscrew, 12/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
SMOKER’S SET, Comprising Highly-polished Nickel
Tobacco Jar, 2 Ripe Racks, Match-holder, and
Crystal Glass Ash Tray (pipes not included),
15/6-
15/6
15/6
JEWELLER, 1
&ClOQfj
$L maker A
SYDNEYS LEADING JEWELLER.
807.809.8U.813.815.817. GEORGE ST. (Opposite Railway Srationl SYDNEY.N.S.W.
»SILVERSMITH
O HSUL TINCI


■ ■
:
m
■:
Jlliiliiiißli
... jMi
mmmmmmmm
■
•.
" ..- ...
jgiiiii
Do not judge
a tyre by its weight or its
appearance. J udge Continental
Tyres by their long list of splendid
successes, under all manner of tests.
These Tyres are supplied under a guaran-
tee of absolute satisfaction. They are doubly
strengthened at precisely the part that comes in
for the Greatest wear —the tread. If it were
humanly possible to make a motor tyre
‘‘cut-proof” —that tyre would be the
.iai—
.
■■■HW
py> j
i
mMmmm
■ mSmmmm
mmmm ■■
WKHBKm
KYf
11 H
■
|f •
MW
lisa
■
KTry
L
s
“Continental.”
■Mfiis
■HMygi
lilllSl
r; :
Wmommm
U ,v* ’* § i
mi
mi
■
vY'^' v ' > V f 4 *f! 'f'l


Scalp Affected, Hair Began to Fall,
Hands So Disfigured She Had to
Wear Gloves All the Time. Two
Hospitals Unable to Assure Cure.
First Application of Cuticura Soap
and Ointment Allayed Itching.
Psoriasis Has Disappeared.
"Allow me to say a few words in praise
of the Cuticura Remedies. About three years
ago, 1 was affected by white scales on my
knees and elbows. I consulted a doctor
who treated me for ringworm. 1 saw .no
change and consulted a specialist and he
claimed 1 had psoriasis. I continued treat-
ments under him for about six months until
I saw scales breaking out all over my body
save my face. My scalp was affected, and
my hair began to fall. I then changed
doctors to no avail. I went to two hospi-
tals and each wanted to make a study of
the case and seemed unable to cure it or
assure me of a cure. I tried several pat-
ent medicines and was finally advised by
a friend who has used Cuticura on her
children since their birth, to purchase
the Cuticura Remedies. I purchased a cake
of Soap, the Ointment and the Resolvent.
After the first application, the itching
was allayed.
"I am still using the Soap and Ointment
and now feel that none other is good enough
for my skin. The psoriasis has disappeared
and I everywhere feel better. My hands
were so disfigured before using the Cuti-
cura Remedies that I had to wear gloves
all the time. Now my body and hand's are
looking fine.” (Signed) Miss Sara Durnett,
2135 Fitzwater St.. Philadelphia, U. S. A.,
Sept. 30, 1910.
Cuticura Soap and Cuticura Ointment are
sold throughout the world. Send to R. Towns
& Co., Sydney, N. S. W., for liberal trial tin of
Cuticura Ointment, with 32-page book.
THE FOLLY OF DRUG
TAKING.
Do not take tonics for nervous breakdown.
There is only one way in which nervous breakdown
jin be repaired, and that is by feeding: the brain and
nerve centres with Lecithin in an active, organic form.
ANTINEUIIASTHIN does this, and actually builds up
the nervous system by administering to it its natural food.
If you suffer from brain fag, inability of concentration
of thought, want of application, dyspepsia, indigestion,
neuralgia, headaches, languor and irritability, send to
t le wholesale distributor for Australia and New Zealand,
H. A. Goddard, 06a Eagle Street., Brisbane, Q., or 194
Vickery’s Chambers, S 2 Pitt Street, Sydney, enclosing
ninepence in stamps, and a sample of Antineurasthin,
With pamphlet dealing with nervous troubles, will be
forwarded to you by return of post. [1
Her Youtfc
3
(.U.5.A.)
Mexican
WALNUT 3TAIN
for Grey Hair
IS THE
only permanent and really raiislactory
ONE SOLUTION Hair Slain
ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES
AGENTS WANTED.
LI YE Representatives to control exclusive
territory for manufacturer’s line of High-
’ - grade Soaps and Toilet Articles. Sensible
assortments in beautiful boxes at low prices.
100; pej’ cent, to 200 per cent, profit. Write for
GJustrated Catalogue.
E. M. DAVIS SOAP CO., Chicago, U.S.A.
Established 15 Years.
‘‘LINSEED COMPOUND” for Coughs and
Colds- ‘Of prove.ij, efficacy for chest complaints.
WHENEVER you see a bear with a Con-
tinent on his back, think of THE LONE
HAND. It’s swag is a Continent.
s
%
%
4
#ATH'
■jp
,0>
WHOLESALE:
R. Reid & Co., Ltd.
Sargood Bros.
Alcock Bros., Ltd.
Petersen, Boesen
& Co., Ltd.
Etc.
RETAIL:
Everywhere, at 6d.
per tin—Black, Tan,
and Ox-blood.
WOLSEY
FOR UNDERWEAR VALUE
Wolsey has become the most widely-selling Underwear
in the world, simply because it offers such Value as is
unobtainable elsewhere. No matter what Wolsey Garment vou
buy, or where you buy it, it will fit, and wash, and wear in
a way which will make you thoroughly glad you chose it.
' Wolsey' means freedom from chills, better comfort, economy, and satisfaction.
mr.
GUARANTEED
ALL PURE WOOL
The Wolsey material is clean,
new wool, soft, elastic, protect-
ive ; no cotton or mixtures.
WolseY
REPLACED FREE
IF IT SHRINKS
Wolsey Underwear is guaran-
teed unshrinkable,and replaced
free should it prove otherwise.
Wolsey Underwear is made in many garments tor men, women, and children,
»nd is the finest value for all. When buying be sure to see the Wolsey mark.
Wolsey Pure Wool Unshrinkable Underwear is obtainable from any retailer. .
“Aberdeen"
Rugs.
'
Wl
“ ABERDEEN ” RUGS are essentially
Rugs of Reliable Quality.
Every feature in their material and work-
manship is unexcelled for sound value.
That’s why thousands of Stockowners
prefer them, and why every storekeeper
of note sells them.
Ask for the “ Aberdeen ” Brand. If un-
obtainable locally, send direct to us for
price list.
Smith, Copeland 8 Co. Ltd.,
204-206 Clarence Street, Sydney.
AGENTS:
QUEENSLAND: H. J. H. Ross, Edward Street,
Brisbane.
VICTORIA: J. Bartram & Son, King Street, Mel-
bourne.
8. AUSTRALIA : C. Whiting, Currie Street, Adelaide.
ghjhjhjkjhk
PRICE 2/-
per
Pot.
Watch Your Skin Grow Clearer
Using soap and water only is expecting Nature to do too much.
Chaps, rough or red sallowness, blotches, wrinkles, and
other unsightly skin conditions result from the presence of ex-
traneofls matter which soap and water does not always eradi-
cate. Help Nature, and keep your skin in tone by using
Icilma Fluor Cream
(Greaseless).
Every day, especially before going out, apply a little of the
cream, and enhance your beauty. Good for preventing
sunburn and freckles.
The native girl reminds you that ICILMA is
the product of a Natural Spring in Algeria.
SAMPLE OFFER. On receipt of 2d. in stamps a dainty
sample of (ireaseless Cream will be sent by
ICILMA CO. Ltd.
(Dept. D),
139 York Street, SYDNEY.
INFLUENZA
Never neglect theshivery,sneezy, headachy symptoms
of Influenza, take Freeman’s —the Original —Chlorodyne.
Invaluable also for Colds, Bronchitis, Asthma, Consumptive
Cough, Diarrhoea, Rheumatism, Ague, and all Nerve Pain.
Recommended, by Doctors for over sixty-five years. Price 1/I J, 2/9 & 4/6 per bottle.
Freeman’s Chlorodyne does not cause Headache.
TRADE
MARK
If your Chemist is
out of stock,order
a bottle, he can
quickly get it.
NEVER accept
imitations.
FREEMANS
CHLORODYNE
QER.
Food
FOR INFANTS , INVALIDS AND THE AGED.
A. food, of great nutritive value, which can be made
suitable for any degree of digestive power by the
simple process of letting it stand for a longer or
shorter period at one stage of its preparation.
Benger’s Food forms with milk, a dainty, delicious and
highly nutritive cream, entirely free from rough and
indigestible particles. “The Lancet”, describes it as
“Mr. Benger’s admirable preparation.”
BENGER’S FOOD, LIMITED, Otter Works, Manchester, England.
fFjenger’s Food is sold in tins by Druggists, etc., everywhere.
823
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on MSS. Mo
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted, whether sent by post or handed
in; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps
(of any State) accompany.
P.C.8.: “Compulsory voting—wliat about
it?” Well, this paper doesn’t view it with much
enthusiasm. The opinion of the person who doesn’t
vote isn’t worth much, anyhow ; and it is a very
grave question whether it would be worth more if he
were compelled to vote Nemo: The housing busi-
ness is rather a municipal job, and it will move
along faster when Greater Sydney arrives. ...Pabst:
Another villain who jambs his type-written 1« •
so tight together that even a W owser s conscience
couldn’t wriggle between them; and a sub-editor s
nib is a much broader thing. .. .E.J.. What this
paper prints it pays for. Cut out pars., send (vit
!late and page) to Accountant. Of those sent, one
too local, t’other too windy. We want meat ...
8.W.: The Commonwealth notes are issued by the
Treasury, and not by any bank. There is no Com-
monwealth bank. The National Bank is a private
concern, over 50 years 01d....Cu1: Suggest you drop
the interested departments a line, quoting Qualili-
cations, and asking to be informed of any vacancies
as they occur. Good men in that line are not
treated to the glassy eye nowadays.. .Biltong.
Bosh Garfield: Perse unsuitable As Now. lhe
words don’t fascinate us, and there is no sl; . l “
musician available at the moment to play over the
music.... Val J.: Scotch census poem needs a bag-
pipe accompaniment.... H.D.F.: Sorry, no use; too
long and clumsy... .Ilellenve: Once more the
gambler: FATAL ARGUMENT.
Silence, Woman, if you
Value thy Life,
Replied a reckless gambler
To his unfortunate Wife;
But fearless she argued
With the human Bear,
Whom seized a decanter
And hurled it at Her;
It struck her on the temple
And a thin stream of gore
Trickled from the Wound
As she lie prone on the floor,
He knelt by his victim
And glared at her face —
Alas, not a quiver of Life
Could the Assassin Trace.
I’ve killed her, he gasped,
And staggered out of the room,
And by self Destruction
He sealed his own Doom.
• .Unknown: Neither good enough R.J.E.:
Creditable attempt, but too rough to patch.....
A.C.K.: Unfortunately the rest of it is not within
coo-ee of the breezy prologue:
These lines were wrote by cattlemen, two lonely
greenhide bards,
Who saw and ran Pegasus with some scrubbers to
the yards, . ,
And hung to him through thick and tlnn, through
rear, and prop, and buck,
And sent the product on per gin to try its doubtful
luck.
A.P.W.: Respectfully note that your power of
words is gone, and that you are left speechless upon
the sheltering shores of Time. Deepest sympathy .. .
Ilughie: You are hereby awarded a Fourth-class
Doggerel Certificate. .. .A. 11.: If you are the in-
ventor of the word “beerishness,” contained in your
story (which, by the way, is unsuitable), we salute
you. It is a good word, and should be brought
under the notice of the people who compile diction-
aries. .. .Hugh S.: Rabbit poem caught in the old
basket trap. . . .M.8.P.: You’re struggling along the
right track. Just now you are failing rather grace-
fully.... F.L.P.: One really fine sentence from the
duel scene: “A shade of annoyance passed over the
marble face of the Countess as she noticed the Earl’s
body lying on the floor.” It was untidy of the Earl
to go and die on the best carpet in the castle
Jack Navvv: Rough work, Jack....P. Nut: Treat-
ment weak W.H.C.: Unskilful verse, and the
story lacks force Walker G.: Almost threadbare.
Sorry to see you have not got any ink. . .. B. Bi-
plane: It fluttered into its wicker cage like a weary
bird W. Willow: You are a prudent lover:
And why should I bewail her ?
And why should I repine?
And why should I assail her?
She is no wife of mine.
In that case you had better not repine, bewail or
assail. Her husband may be a furious man with
large feet Super: Hospital verses sank rapidly,
and expired in the usual place. .. .S.J.C.: Biplane
I verses crashed down on top of hospital verses....
S.K. (S.A.) : Frenzied attempt to mix up Art and
Eggs. . . .A.T.M.: One screech:
Now the fearsome bird of nightfall
Its sombre plumage flecked with gore
Shrieks and shrieks its demon summons
There close by the barred door.
Subsequently the insane fowl breathed on you and
vou fainted. Guess it must be a relation of the
Jird of Adversity mentioned in this column last
week. What pub are 'these things escaping from?
j ....A.P.W.: “Slum Children” very mechanical poem.
I We can see you moving about your poetical engine-
room with an oilcan and a piece of cotton waste,
watchfully tending the well-worn rhymes and phrases.
... .Bury the Pen: “Laws are made to darn us all.”
But, ere we depart amicably to Perdition, give us as
of old the final “n.”... .Rivers: U.S. “single track
mileage,” June 30, 1909, was 236,869 miles ; “tracks
of all kinds in operation,” 342,351 miles
11.C.5.: Obliged ; but most, if not all, the points
have been incidentally noted already... .Left Hand:
Too rambling and dull. Try the right hand and see
if you can’t put some brightness into your work.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CONTRIBUTORS.
E.A.H.: Please spare us the puns Chipper:
Sketch faint; joke gasping.
The wrangle of the ancient mariners (con-
tinued and concluded): —
“Joynt” (B. 23/3/T1) deals out tommyrot when he
talks about an alleged passage of 51 days from London
to Melbourne, made by the Elizabeth Ann Bright.
Undoubtedly the record made by a windjammer be-
tween the ports named was that of the Thermopylae in
1868-69 —61 days from Gravesend to Hobson’s Bay. Next
comes that of the Ben Voirlich ; this vessel covered the
same course in 1875 in 62 days. Between London and
Sydney, I think the record is the 68 days put up by the
Rodney in 1887. The Aberdeen clipper Patriarch did the
distance in 69 days on her maiden voyage (about 1872),
and so did the Ben Cruachan a year later. But perhaps
the cßampion of all the old-time' heelers was the Sir Lan-
celot, a regular visitor (o, Port Jackson in those days,
and the winner of the tea race in 1869—90 days
from Fop Choo Foo to the West. India Docks, beating the
Thermopylae by a day. The best d,ay’s run recorded by
the Thermopylae was 380 statute miles but on one occa-
sion the Sir Lancelot ran by the log, afterwards con-
firmed by observation, 408 miles in 24 hours, or at the
rate of 17 miles an hour. Of course, had those ships
been manned on the same economical scale as wind-
jammers flying the red ensign generally are to-day, they
could not have put up such performances. The Ther-
mopylae, for instance, was only a 900 tonner, but she
carried at least double the crew that in these days is
thought sufficient for a British four-poster of perhaps
3000 tons. Most of the fliers of the olden days have
been converted into coal-hulks, or have vanished from
the face of the waters altogether. Of the ships men-
tioned above, the Thermopylae (unless the Republicans
have blown her up) is now the Pedro Nunes, utilised as a
training ship on the Tagus ; the Patriarch is a timber
drogher under Scandinavian ownership ; the Ben Cru-
achan, when last I heard of her, was doing duty as a
hulk on the coast of Mexico ; the Ben Voirlich, flying the
Dagoes’ flag, was a few years ago bumped against an ice-
berg off the Horn with such violence that, though she
managed to reach Genoa, she was there condemned and
broken up; the Rodney was piled up_ on the coast of
Cornwall in 1901; and a typhoon in the'Bay of Bengal in
i«qs wound nn the career of the Sir Lancelot.


EXCELLENT ConP/KNY-
GOVCPNNCNT QU^BdNTEED
ill
UN
The Whisky, you will
agree, is Good, and it
will agree with you,
because it’s Good.
Ask for it at the
Bar—and get it.
4083
m
i
m
\
rail
m
£
&
m
ydt
§■/$&
m
kj
pi
C-\' :
i
m
BUIS
m
a
<■-4
98»
KC5S
M
£5
$
:JWfl
sws
i
SKSsS
I
ss
Kg
J4925—15ct. Gold, Pearl and Bine Tour-
maline set Pendant, £2/2/-
Gl6Bo—Pearl and Tur-
quoise set, 15ct. Gold
Pendant, 70/-
C4l7B—lsct. Gold (Palm Leaf) Brooch
Pendant, set with Pink and Green
Tourmalines and Fine White Pearls,
£7/10/-
Fullest Value —Fittest Quality.
The purchasing power of ten large establishments is greater than
that of one. There are ten large Stewart Dawson establishments in
different parts of the world, the buying for which is controlled in
London. When you come to compare our prices with other prices,
carefully keeping in mind the quality.and merit of design, the inevitable
conclusion you arrive at is the superiority in value and quality of all
“Treasure House” goods. Send fori our Illustrated Catalogue.
J4lB—Fine Diamond,
Pearl and Olivine
Pendant, £lB/10/-
J323X—9ct. Gold Pen-
dant, set Amethyst,
Green Tourmalines
and Pearls, 25/-
H 2079 —9ct. Gold Plain Band Bangle, £1 7s. 6d. Others
from 21/- to 40/-
&
s
m
Vi
S-
%
The “ Britannic ” Expanding: Watch Bracelet, Dpt. Gold, with
fine Lever Movement, £B/10/- 15ct. Gold ditto, £l2/10/-
15ct. Gold, Pearl set, £lB/10/-
06881—16 ct. Gold and Turquoise set Bangle, £6/15/-
Ditto, 9ct. Gold, £5.
Stewart Dawson 8 Co.
(Australia),
Strand Corner, 412 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
J4CS3—9cfc. Gold, Pearl and Amethyst set
Necklet, £2/10/-
J299s—Fine Aquamarine
and Pearl set, 15et. Gold
Pendant, £3/10/-


THE BANK OF AUSTRALASIA.
(Incorporated by Royal Charter, 1835.)
Paid-up Capital
* “ 1U '-'dpilUl . . t
( in okooiiS 0 k 00 i iS inv l n "?$ P e r cent. Consols," the remainder
oeing used in the business of the bank)
Reserve Liability of Proprietors under the Charter . ’ ”
£1,600,000
1,810,000
1,600,000
£5,010,000
SEVENTY-SEVENTH ANNUAL REPORT of the DIRECTORS of the BANK OF AUSTRALASIA,
Presented to A * C( :? unt f i for , th ® Half-year to 10th October, 1910.
e Proprietors at the Annual G Ol j^j^p qj^ 1 n Held on Thursd ay, 30th March, 1911.
Account for r tti t e° r halfS to tha/Ze^Tf^ 6 bal^ sbeet as at 10th October last, with the Profit
colonial ratesand taxes -md to/ »if'lfa a A ? e ? P y l ?7 I 1 dl ? ! ’ *°r rebate on bills current, for British and
i- 198,530 18s. 9d. 9 ‘ anc * doubtful debts, the net profit for the half-year amounted to
a total of 15 £213 725 S 6s be ird de ont £ of s ’wHeh 8 V1, 2 ' 3 )i- bro I ,ght i, forW^ rd from the P revious half-year, making
the rate of 12 per cent DeJ annum or 2* t w d ”' ectors )liv * declared a dividend for the half-year at
The rlivtoirwi , p annum, or £2 Bs. per share, and a bonus of 18s. per share, free of income tax.
to the Reserve Fund* amf U f on ftfio bß ° rt> f 12 .3,000, and the directors liave further appropriated £50,000
the dividend and bonus will be payable in London and in the colonies on the 31st inst
Esq., and 1 the Ct ltt S Hon 1 Alfred P 6 H h I £ > ”' L °^ d .£\ eorge F - Hamilton, Charles E. Barnett,
' The auditors Messrs iv,l™ t 0n ’ M.P., who, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
The directors reeorU ’ I 0110 * and Co., also oiler themselves for re-election,
intended after over /n segret5 egret - the r^ lr ?, ner ‘t °f Mr - c - R. Cowper from the office of super-
have appointed Mr C I il,.r, S | ydued servme with the bank. To. the office thus vacated the directors
and Te *4 New
4 Threadneedle Street, London, 20th March, 1911. ALFRED LYTTELTON, Chairman.
PROFIT ACCOUNT, from APRIL 11, 1910, to OCTOBER 10, 1910.
Undivided profit, April 11, 3 910
Less dividend and bonus, 7th October, 1910 . ‘ ‘ ) *
Profit for the half-year to October 10, 3 910, after deducting rebate on
bills current at balance date ( £8,928 6s. 7d.), and makimr pro-
vision for all bad and doubtful debts .. .. £371 oj;
Less: , " ” ■ ’ ’
I. Charges of Management—
Colonial- —
'• A Salaries and allowances to the colonial staff,
including the superintendent’s department
and 188 branches and agencies .... £lO4 590 8 6
. General expenses, including rent, repairs, sta-
London— tlonery ’ travelling ’ etc 25,314 5 H
#J ariea . .. 9,661 12 6
General expenses .. .. .. .. 3 104 13 0
..£143,194 8 2
.. 128,000 0 O'
£15,194 8 2
14 2
11. Rates and. Taxes—-
Colonial, £13,795
£16,250 10s. 3d.
£142,670 19 10
ss. 4(b
London,
Total amount of unappropriated profit
Irom which deduct—
For transfer to Reserve Fund
For reduction in cost of bank premises
Leaving available for dividend ..
30,045 15 7 172,716 15 5 198,530 18 9
.. £213,725 6 31
I
70,000 0 0
.. £50,000
... 20,000
£143,725 6 11
BALANCE-SHEET, OCTOBER 10, 1910.
Dr. LIABILITIES.
Circulation .. .. .. £564,886 0 0
Deposits 16,896,475 13 9
Bills payable and other liabili-
ties .. 2,823,364 11 S
£20,284,726 5 5
Capital ..£1,600,000 0 0
Iteserve Fund 1,810,000 0 0
Profit account,
undivided
balance 143,725 6 11
■ 3,553,725 6 11
£23,838,451 12 4
„ . ASSETS. Cr
Specie, bullion, and cash bal-
ances .. .. ..£4,830,845 11 7
Lioans at' call and at short notice 2,360,000' 0 0
British Government s securities . . 1,079,736 9 2
India and colonial Governments
securities and , other invest-
ments 682,088 11 6
Bills receivable, advances on se-
curities and otlier assets . . 14,755,338 0 11
Bank premises in Australia, New
Zealand and London .. .. 130,442 19 2
£23,838,451 12 4
F. H. BLOGO, Accountant R. W. JEANS, General Manager,
j. _ have examined the cash and securities in London, and the London books, and have verified the
transfers trom the several branches in the Commonwealth and New Zealand, and we beg to reDort that
in our opinion the foregoing is a full and fair balance-sheet of the bank, and that it exhibits aTrue and
b * nt '* aS S, »>" b >- the b ~ ta - Th,‘valued"?
J " uutm ’ luth March > 19u - WELTON, JONES and CO., Auditors.
c
mK
wm
sar<
t
mr.i
■&K&
m
mmm
IACIg
IYSTERY
AND
llßTfl
YOU all know the “ man who does the
tricks” at the party—don’t you?
Makes everybody laugh, puzzles and tricks
them, and they can’t tell how he does it.
YOU can be as clever and funny as he by’
the use of our Tricks, Novelties and Magic Surprises. Very simple if you follow the instructions with each
Write for Free Catalogue of Makers
of Mirth and Mystery.
The Wonderful Gyroscope and
Mono=rail Top.
Perfect demonstration of the railroad of
the future. This marvellous top defies
the laws of gravity and equilibrium.
Spins in any position—on top of finger,
end of nose, edge of tumbler, etc. Baffl-s
Science, delights children, astounds
adults. The more you spin it, the more
it will puzzle you.
Post Free 1/3, or Larger Size, 2/3
Chinese Ring Bar Puzzle.
Endless amusement. The idea is to
remove the handle from the rings. Looks
so simple, yet puzzles them all till they
knowhow. Well made of solid polished
brass. Fits vest pocket. Write for it
to-day, enclosing stamps for amount.
1/- Post Free.
The Wizard Fortune-
Telling Cards.
Endless interest. Lends
a new charm to pre-
dicting: fortune. Sim-
ple to use.
1/9 Post Free.
r
r'
N
l
The Wonderful Plate*Lifter.
Will make your friends' plates and cups dance quite
unexpectedly as they sit at meals. No
one can see the cause ; works quite im-
perceptibly from the other end of the
table. Shrieks of laughter. 1/-post free.
Wondrous Disappearing
Handkerchief Trick.
This handkerchief makes anything
disappear. Very effective.
1/3 Post Free.
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
(H. L. HUTCHINSON, LTD.)
710 GEORGE STREET,
111 KING STREET,
25-27 OXFORD STREET,
SYDNEY.
THE COLONIAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA Limited.
The Thirty-Sixth Report of the Directors of the Colonial Bank of Australasia Limited.
To be presented to the Shareholders at the Thirty-sixth ORDINARY GENERAL MEETING, to be held
at the Bank, 126 Elizabeth Street, at noon on FRIDAY, the 28th APRIL, 1911.
REPORT.
The Directors beg to submit to the Shareholders their Thirty-sixth Report, with a Balance-sheet and
Statement of Profit and Loss for the half-year ended 31st March, 1911, duly audited.
i "\n*' er pro S d . in^. for Expenses of Management, Interest Accrued on Deposits, Rebate on Bills Cur-
Tax on Note Circulation, Income Tax, Land Taxes, and making provision for Bad and Doubtful
Debts, the Net Profit amounted to
Brought forward from 30th September, 1910
Which the Directors propose to apportion as follows, viz:—
Dividend at the rate of 7 per cent per annum on preference shares
Dividend at the rate of 7 per cent, per annum on ordinary shares
To Reserve Fund (making it £160,000)
To Officers’ Provident Fund
Balance carried forward .. ..
The Dividend will be payable at the Head Office on and after Ist May, and at the Branches on
receipt of advice.
The Thirty-sixth Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders will be held at the Head Office of the
Company, 126 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, on Friday, the 28th day of April, 1911, at noon.
By order of the Board, SELBY PAXTON,
Melbourne, 19th April, 1911. General Manager
BALANCE-SHEET of the COLONIAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA Limited. -
Du. For the Half-Year ending March 31, 1911. (Including London Office to February 28,1911.) Ou
To Capital Paid-up, viz.: —
31,184 Preference
Shares paid in
cash to £9/15/
per share . . £304,044 0 0
77,278 Ordinary
Shares paid in
cash to £l/15/
per share .. 135,236 10 0
£439,280 10 0
To Reserve Fund. . 160,000 0 0
To Profit and Loss 18,345 8 0
£617,625 18 0
To notes in circulation .. . . 128,851 0 0
To bills in circulation . . . . 335.643 13 11
To balances due to other banks .. 941 2 3
To Government Deposits—
Not bearing in-
terest, £120,290
5/9 ; bearing in-
terest, £305,370
16/2 .". . . 425,661 1 11
To Other Deposits,
Rebate and In-
terest Accrued —
Not bearing in-
terest,, £1,437,-
560/3/3 ; bear-
in g interest,
£1,933,089-
17/7 . .. 3,370,650 0 10
• 3,796,311 2 9
£4,879,372 16 11
To contingent liabilities, as per
contra .. ..£216,251 11 2
By coin, bullion,
Australian notes,
and cash at
bankers, £757-
063/1/2; by
money at call
and short notice
in London, £ll5-
000/-/-
By British Consols,
£70,668/15/2, at
£BO per cent.,
£56,535/-/-; by
Victorian Gov-
ernment stock,
M e t r o p olitan
Board of Works,
and municipal
debentures, £76-
413/14/3
By Bills and Remit-
tances in tran-
situ and in Lon-
don .. . ,
By notes and bills
of other banks
By balances due
from other banks
By stamps
£872,063 1 2
132,948 14 3
763,578 17 7
6,527 0 0
23,620 15 6
1,354 15 10
By Real Estate,
consisting of—
Bank premises
Other real estate
By bills discounted
advances, exclusive
£1,800,093 4 ! 4
for bad or doubtful debts
and other
of provision
203,899 10
13,878 10
2,861,501 12 ,5
£4,879,372 16 11
By liabilities of customers and
others in respect of ontingent
liabilities as per contra.. ..£216,251 11 2
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
To ctfftent expenses (•including sala-
ries, rents, repairs, stationery, s etd.) £34.424 1 8
To bank note tax .. . . , . 1,260 2 3
To transfer to Reserve Fund . . 10,0,00 0 0
To balance .. .. .. .. 18,345 8 0
£64,029 11 11
By balance brought, forward
By gross profits for the half-year,
after allowing for interest
accrued on deposits, rebate on
bills current, and making pro-
vision for income-tax, land-taxes,
and bad and doubtful debts ..
£3,037 4 0
Ofi, 392 7 5
£04,029 11 11
RESERVE FUND ACCOUNT.
To balance
. £160,000 0 0
£160,000 0 0
By balance brought forward
By transfer from Profit and Loss.
£150,000 0 0
10,000 0 0
£160,000 0 0
ZEISS
FIELD GLASSES
WITH ENHANCED STEREOSCOPIC EFFECT.
For:
ARMY.
MARINE.
TRAVEL.
SPORT.
STALKING.
ghjhjhjkjhk
Features:
Brilliant
Definition.
Extensive Field.
Great Light
Intensity.
Mechanical
Precision.
Stability.
Tropic Proof,
With
•eparate eyepiece
focussing.
X 8 £8 15 0
NEW MODELS
OF ALL
OPTICIANS AT
AUSTRALASIAN
PRICES.
With
central focussing
mechanism.
X6.—£9 0 0
X 8 15 0
ENO S ‘FRUIT SALT’
A HOUSEHOLD REMEDY FOR
All Functional Derangements of the Liver, Tempo-
rary Congestion arising from Alcoholic Beverages,
Errors in Diet (Eating or Drinking), Biliousness,
Sick Headache, Giddiness, Vomiting, Heartburn,
Sourness of the Stomach, or Constipation. It is
a Refreshing and Invigorating Beverage, most
Invaluable to Travellers, Emigrants, Sailors, and
Residents in Tropical Climates.
w N ? S ™IT SALT’ assists the Functions of the Liver, Bowels. Skin, and Kidnevs
by Natural Means. Thefe is no doubt that, where it has been taken in the elrdest
stages of a disease, it has, in innumerable instances, prevented a serious illness.
CAUTION. - Examine the Capsule and see that it is marked ENO'S ‘FRUIT SALT'
otherwise you have the sincerest form of fIattery—IMITATION. '
Prepared only by J. C. ENO. Ltd., ‘ FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS, London
S.E., Eng., by J. C. ENO’S Patent.
Sold by Chemists and Stores everywhere.


Missing: Friends.
HERBERT KEARNEY.
TyANTED, information regarding above, who left
'' Armagh (Ireland) in 1881, and was in Parramatta
in that year, and has not since been heard of. Apply
Box 3411, T. B. Browne’s Advertising Offices, 163 Queen
Victoria Street, London (Eng.).
QREME LA FRANCE.
FRENCH LIQUID COSMETIC.
m
An Exquisite Lotion for Beau-
tifying and giving Tone and
Brilliance to the Com-
plexion. It is most
beneficial to those
whose skin is show-
ing a tendency to
become livid or dis-
I colored. It softens
I a hard, dry skin
Perfectly harmless
to the most delicate
skin. Price 2/6,
Posted 3/- Obtain-
able from MADAME
LEIGH, Ladies’ Hair-
dresser and Hairworker,
23 The Block Arcade,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Wholesale :
DUERDIN AND SAINSBURY, Melbourne.
a
a
i
Gives
STYLE
Jjtaui
COMFORT
% S
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager •' «J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45 SHARP.
Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON presents
“The Greatest of all Pantomimes,”
JACK AND THE BEANSTALK
PLAN AT PALING’S. >
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Lessee & Manager .. J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.50,
Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON presents
THE NEW COMIC OPERA COMPANY in the Most
Exquisitely Graceful and Charming Musical Play,
THU DOLLAR PRINCESS.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Prices as usual.
RITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee: FRANK MUSGROVE.
A SUCCESS OF PLAY AND PLAYERS.
CLARKE AND MEYNELL’S NEW OPERA COMPANY
in that Notable Musical Success,
THE GAY GORDONS.
Box Plan at ELVY’S. PRICES AS USUAL.
A DELPHI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction and Management, George Marlow, Ltd.
SATURDAY NEXT, MAY 20, for the First Time Here,
UNDER TWO ELAGS.
Special Dramatic Adaptation of “ Ouida’s ” World Famous
Novel ON A SCALE OF UNPRECEDENTED SPLENDOR.
Interpreted by the full strength of GEORGE MARLOW’S
BRILLIANT DRAMATIC COMBINATION.
See Cigarette’s Famous Ride in full view of the audience
on real Arab Horse. POPULAR PRICES —3s. f 2s. & Is.
Box Plan at Elvy’s and Theatre.
JO W N HALL, SYDN |E Y.
TO-NIGHT, AT 8 O’CLOCK,
AND FOR SEVEN MORE NIGHTS ONLY,
Sftl >ll
PLAN AT CARNEGIE’S, 80 KING STREET,
Prices—7/6, 5/-, 3/-, 2/-
HE LYCEUM
• EVERY EVENING AT 8
Matinees-Wednesdays Saturdays and Holidays at 2-JO.
C pencer'shTeatrexope (s
J PICTURES
-o. SUPERIOR TO /ILL OTHER'S, o
Popular Prices ~t~ Plan at Paiincs,
New princess theatre
(Late BIJOU, next to Glaciarium).
Also PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
COLOSSAL PEOPLE'S ENTERTAIMENTS BY
WEST’S PICTURES, LTD.
“BEST OF ALL.”
FAMILY MATINEES—WEDNESDAY, 2.30.
DE GROEN’S VICE-REGAL ORCHESTRAS.
6d. to 2/- Plan at Nicholson’s (Fee, 6d. extra).
Lyric and colonial theatres
Nos. 1 and 2, Georg's Street, Sydney.
Direction J. D. Wilmams.
PERPETUAL MOTION from 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
PATRONISED BY 60,000 PEOPLE WEEKLY.
Run Under the Continuous Show System now the Rage
of England and America.
English and American Prices of Admission.
Same Prices at Each Theatre :
STALLS 3d. DRESS CIRCLE 6d.
ENTIRE CHANGE OF PROGRAMMES TWICE
WEEKLY : MONDAYS and FRIDAYS.
Afternoon Tea is Popular. Afternoon Pictures are the
Rage.
We Cater Specially for Ladies and Children During
Morning and Afternoon Sessions.
Ladies’ Retiring Rooms and Lady Attendants.
If it is to be seen anywhere you will see it at our
THE WORLD IN MOTION.
We want you to compare our Programmes and our
Theatres with others which charge twice our prices of
Admission.
THE GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS
AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
INTERNATIONAL PICTURES. COLONIAL
THEATRE BUILDINGS, 610 George Street, Sydney.
Mr. W. J. Morgan, General Manager.
This Company supplies the Lyric and Colonial Theatres
with all their photo plays, and also supplies the leading
photo play concerns throughout Australasia. In fact,
we supply more shows with pictures than any other
three (3) concerns combined.
Don’t forget, Mr. Showman, to write or call.
We have the money-getters. We do not represent any
one firm of photo play manufacturers, but we represent
all the best. WE HAVE THOUSANDS OF EXCLUSIVE
SUBJECTS -EVERY ONE A WINNER.
Branches: Sutton Buildings, Melbourne; Courier Build-
ings, Brisbane ; Wellington, New Zealand ; London,
England : Dewar House, Haymarket.
Just address your wire to “ International Pictures.”
That’s sufficient.
TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
* Sole Proprietor & Manager— Mr. Harry Rickards,
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS
PEREZOFFS (7), Comedy Jugglers.
REICHEN’S PERFORMING DOGS.
THE KAVANAGH BOYS, Novelty Club Jugglers and
Racquet Spinners. SOOT GIBSON, Scotch Comedian.
CADWELL and VERNE, English Comedy Sketch Artists.
BLACK and WHITE, Ladv Novelty Acrobats.
VAUDE and VERNE.
And a GREAT COMPANY of Established Favorites.
PRICES—BB., 2s. and Is. Plan at Paling’s.
OPERA H OUSE, MELBO U R N E.
Sole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
THE TWO LILLIES, in their Mirror Illusion. ‘
MR. R. A. ROBERTS, Protean Actor in Dick Turpin.
MISS FLORENCE CROMER CHALLIS,
England’s Clever Young Comedienne.
EUNICE and ZENA, Instrumentalists.
THE ZANFRELLAS, Equilibrists.
AUSTRALIAN DARTOS.
Plan at Allan’s. tS" PRICES—3s., 25., Is.
■J*H EAT RE ROYAL, MELBOU RN E.
SATURDAY NEXT, MAY 20,
CLARKE AND MEYNELL’S GREAT
DRAMATIC PRODUCTION,
THE WOMAN IN THE CASE.
Plans at Allan’s. S'-T* PRICES AS USUAL.
THE KING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager : William Anderson.
EVERY EVENING,
WM. ANDERSON’S NEW DRAMATIC ORGANISATION,
in the Great Australian Drama,
THE SQUATTER’S DAUGHTER.
Box Plan at Allan’s. PRICES—3s., 2s. and Is.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager: J. C. Williamson, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING,
Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON presents
OUR MISS GIBBS.
By an Exceptionally Strong Cast.
Plan at Allan’s. PRICES-5/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/-.
pRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
MAY 18 & 19—ARMS AND THE MAN.
MAY 20, 22, 23—THE THIRD DEGREE.
MAY 24, 25 —THE LION AND THE MOUSE.
Presented by
KATHERINE GREY, WILLIAM DESMOND,
and an Augmented and Brilliant Cast.
PRICES AS USUAL. Plan at Allan’s.
lA# E S T’S PALACE, MELBOURNE.
THE BEST WEST’S PICTURES, the best
OF ALL. LIMITED. OF ALL.
Managing Director: Mr. T. J. West.
NIGHTLY AT S.
Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays & All Holidays at 2.30.
The Greatest Pictorial Enterprise in the World.
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
Any Moving Picture Worthy of Note always to be seen at
WEST’S PICTURES. Complete Change every week.
Prices —6d. to 2s. Box Plan at Glen's.
The glaciarium, Melbourne.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J.&N.TAIT’S
PICTURES
ALL THE LATEST PICTURES from Europe & America.
A COMPLETE CHANGE WEEKLY. Prices—2/-, 1/6,
l/-, 6d. Matinees—Wednesday. Saturday, All Holiday's.
W IRTHS OLYMPIA
EVERY EVENING AT 8
Mati nees-Wednesdays . Saturdays and Holidays at 2 30.
CPENCERSIHEATREJCOPE <?.
J PICTURES
rfß£ superior ro pi.l others. ,
Popular Prices >«. Plan as Usijal^i>]
LYRIC THEATRE, Chapel Street, Prahran, Vie.
EVERY NIGHT at 8. MATINEE, SATURDAY, at 2.30
THE FAMOUS “ NON-FLICKER”
PHOTOPLAYS
on the MarvellpW,*'' Mack ” Screen, together
Superb lA' WG. BbCHESTRA. 6d. to 2s.
Allan’s,'C. M'. Read’s and the Lyric Theatre
wiui the
Plans at
Caf6.
£HEAP, Second-Hand 15BreakH.P.
TANG YE GAS ENGINE,
IN GOOD ORDER.
Apply Manager, “ BULLETIN ” OFFICE,
214 George Street, Sydney.
•"BRANDT^
ATMOSLITf
Gas Machine/!
COUNTRY
LIGHTING
by air-gas is far more bril-
liant and efficient than
other illuminants, and
considerably cheaper.
The Atmosiite air-gas
machine is simple, auto-
matic, always ready for
use, and maintains light
at an even pressure.
Write for Literature To-day.
BRANDT BROS., LTD.,
LAMPHOUSE,
236 Pitt St., Sydney.
Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
FOR
RHEUMATISM
GOLCRYST
Packets, 3d., 6d. and Is.
[2a
“VIKING”
GUN
£
11
11
0.
starts in to get busy just when
other guns begin to fail. It is
such a long distance killer that
users of ordinary guns are
simply astounded when they
first try a “Viking.” This is
proved over and over again by
the letters we get from Shooters
who have them. There is no
guesswork about “Viking”
shooting, the 32in. steel barrels
are of such a high quality, and
are so accurately bored and
regulated, that their long, sure
shooting is a certainty. Over
and above all is the fact that
with every “Viking” we give a
3 years, legally drawn up, sign-
ed guarantee. This guarantee
covers the user against break-
down, repairs or defects, and is
a guarantee such as NO
OTHER FIRM in Australia
has ever offered. The price of
a “Viking” is £ll 11s., and it
will last a lifetime.
Send To-day and Get
Particulars.
Alcock & Pierce,
Gun and Cartridge
Manufacturers, '
318 Little Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS.
The Monkland 8 Inglewood Deep Sinking G. M. Co. Ltd.
Gympie, Queensland. (To be Registered.)
CAPITAL £20,000 ; Divided into 80,000 Shares of 5/- Each.
The United 7 and 8 Monkland C. M. Co. Ltd. (the Vendor Company) retains 20,000 fully paid-up Shares.
60,000 Shares are now offered for subscription as follows:—3d. per Share on application and 3d.
per Share on allotment; the balance as required in calls not to exceed Id. per Share at
intervals of not less than 28 days.
Provisional Directors: R. KENNEDY, Esq. (Gympie); W. McNUTT, Esq. (Gvmpie);
W. R. MITCHELL, Esq. (Maryborough); V. H. TOZER, Esq. (Gympie).
Solicitor: V. H. TOZER (Gympie). Secretary : D. 0. MOODIE (Gympie).
The Property consists of three Goldmining Leases, containing in the aggregate an area of 23 acres
3 roods 32 perches.
The leases are situated at the Monkland, Gympie Goldfield, and are in close vicinity to the South
Glanmire and Monkland, 2 South Great Eastern and the Scottish Gympie Goldmines.
The locality has been proved to be one of the richest on the Gympie Goldfield, in the top slates.
There are three shafts on the leases, viz., the 7 and 8 Monkland shaft, 840 ft. deep; the Aurelia shaft,
1501 ft. deep ; and the Inglewood shaft, 1195 ft. deep. On the 7 and 8 Monkland shaft there is a Winding
Engine, but a new boiler will be required.
The proceeds of the shares, less brokerage, flotation expenses and costs of registration, will be placed
to the credit of the Company.
The following reefs go through the Company’s property: Monkland, Glanmire, Great Eastern, St.
Patrick, Wiltshire and Inglewood. On the Inglewood the Company has 1120 ft. on line of reef.
Once the winding plant is erected on the Aurelia shaft, the shaft repaired and baled out, there is
nothing to prevent the Company working the veinlets at the 1479 ft. level, 161 ft. from the shaft, and the
reef cut at 317 ft. from the shaft, both of which are considered to be payable.
. The objects of the Company are, briefly
1. To sink the Aurelia shaft a distance of 100 ft. more or less to prove the third bed of slate, and work
tfi6 reefs in. it.
2. To work the veinlets of calcite, 161 ft. from the shaft at the 1479 ft. level, and the reef cut at 317 ft.
at the same level.
3. To sink the Aurelia shaft to a depth to correspond with the depth the Scottish Gympie Goldmines,
Ltd., is at present working, at estimate to be about 500 ft. from the present depth (1501 ft.), and
there work the Inglewood reef in particular.
Applications should be made to Edgar A. Jones, Box 15, Maryborough, Q. ; or The Secretary, Gympie, Q.
POT POURRI
Stands for Quality.
The Highest Product of the
Tobacco Blenders’ Art.
“ POT POURRI ” Cigarettes. —The highest grade obtainable, at 6d. per packet of io ;
4/6 per ioo.
“ POT POURRI ” Cigars. —A fragrant smoke— 3d. each ; 5 for 1/= ; 18/6 per 100.
“ POT POURRI ” Tobacco. — 40Z. tins, 2 /= ; Boz. tins, 4/-.; 8/= per lb. There is none
better than this—it is the BEST.
“POT POURRI” Pipes, Silver-mounted, superior quality, all shapes, 2/6 each.
“POT POURRI ” always the same, always enjoyable.
Clients in country or other States ORDER NOW, and it will bo
posted FREE by return, with Catalogue which will interest you.
A. A. MARKS, Sole Agent, 376 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
W E
t mm
4
-J*
M*.
’* ' ' ' -•!
WA N T MEN
to Represent Us
Big opportunity to make money. No competition,
exclusive territory, on low-priced, quick-selling office
specialty that saves licking envelopes.
s
AUNDERS
EALER
with automatic
moisture- feed
seals 40 to 50 en-
velopes a minute
with one opera-
tion ; SUoO envelopes without refilling. Always ready.
Made of brass —polished nieKel finish.
No Rubber Bulb to Press. Nothing to ge out of order. GUARANTEED FOR ONE YEAR.
PRIC£ 12/G post free. Experience not absolutely necessary, but references essential.
Saunders Sealer has to be seen to be understood and appreciated, and for this reason all applications
must be accompanied by Postal Note for 12/6 to cover cost of mailing sample. This will, of course, be refunded
to successful candidates. We do not send samples on consignment because the amount involved is too small.
All applications will be treated as strictly confidential. Open until Ist AUGUST, 1911.
Address:
SAUNDERS SEALER COMPANY,
BOX 920, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Operation Avoided by Using
ghjhjhjkjhk
“For 23 years I suffered with an enlargement of the wrist. Three medical men
pronounced it incut rable without an operation. A friend advised me to use SOLOMON
SOLUTION, which I did—only a tew jars—and it has perfectly cured me. It is the
best liniment I have ever used.”
(Signed) Jas. E- Chevelp
Bungerang North.
Obtainable in 2/6 Jars from Chemists or Storekeepers, or post free for 3/- from
SCLOMON COX & SON, 439 Bourka St., Melbourne, £
General Burnett, the Australian who has
risen to great things in the British Army,
and is visiting his “own country—the finest
in the world,” says he knows the Jap well,
and affirms that he is a peaceable, well-dis-
posed person who isn’t likely to come poking
into this Continent. The Bulletin is glad
to hear it. It is also glad to hear that the
Mooltan, Osterley, Thermopylae are well-
found, seaworthy boats. But it notices that
they carry lifeboats and lifebelts, and have
boat-drill. Also, America, and Germany,
and Britain, and China, and France, and
Russia, according to various authorities,
are peaceable and well-disposed. But it
notices that Japan has an army and a navy
nevertheless.
The other day, at a meeting of cockies
held near Mitiamo (Vic.), those present pledged
themselves to boycott two specified Melbourne
machinery firms unless they ceased running their
factories as union shops. And the Melbourne
papers, which for weeks past have been preaching
the horrors of the boycott when unionists apply
it, hadn’t a word to say by way of reproach. Pro-
bably the Mitiamo cockies didn’t know the gun
was loaded, either. When their crops are ready
for harvesting they may yet be horrified to receive
a cold intimation from the Union of Rural
Workers that, labor being scarce, it has been de-
cided to supply it first to gentlemen who don’t
boycott “ union ” tools.
“Philoyid”: A great rabbinical council
was held in Leeds, England, last month. The
most learned Hebrews attended from all over the
globe. Those from the European continent,
especially Germany, were the most determined
Tories— “ everything is going to the svine, s’help
me.” A knot of these ferocious Shylocks insisted
that there must be a universal return to the Jew-;
ish rule that women must cut off their hair upon
marriage. This is rabbinical. The married
woman must wear an ugly cross between a cap
and a wig, called a shaitel. How’s that for Rabbi
Cohen’s Synagogue ? (By the way, this honored
Rabbi has expressed his warm agreement with
the Papal Bull against mixed marriages.) Next
time you meet the blooming young Mrs. Meplu-
bosheth ask, “Where’s your shaitel?” Blest if
she’ll know.


Shipping.
P. and 0. BRANCH SERVICE
For NATAl, CAPETOWN and LONDON,
SALOON ACCOMMODATION, AMIDSHIPS,
CONVERTED INTO VERY SUPERIOR
ONE CLASS.
LONDON £16, £18 and £20.
CAPETOWN and NATAl, £13 13s., £15 15s. and £17 17s.
CILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD., 7 Bent St.
Mklkouknk A0K.NT8 i JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
Ill William-street.
AnKiiAiDK & Fiucmantj.e Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN D.
ORVIETO .. Twin-Screw .. 12,130 Regd. Tons.
OSTERI.EY 12,129
OTRANTO.. „ „ .. 12,124
OTWAY .. 12,077
ORSOVA .. „ „ .. 12,036
ORONTICS .. „ „ .. 9,023
OMRAH .. „ „ .. 8,282
OPHIR .. „ ,. 6,814
ORAMA (Building:) ,, .. 13,000
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy. New and luxurious
12 000-ton Steamers. Gabines-de-luxe ; State-rooms, with
bedsteads; Single Berth Rooms, Private Bathrooms;
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Sailing every fortnight from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Place, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Rank of [|ortli Queensland
limited.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director :
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 4 QUEEN VICTORIA STREET, E.C.
Manager: R. R. LOVE.
Bankers: THE LONDON COUNTY & WESTMINSTER
BANK LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
|ank of fieui Z ealand -
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING. GEORGE STREET.
Total Capital Paid-up .. -. -- £2 '°°°,000
Uncalled Capital •• £660,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits £864,134^
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Bankimr business.
THE
Australian flank of Commerce
limited.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL - - - £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED - - - - -
PAID-UP (31st December, 1910) - - £1,145,933
HEAD OFFICE—George and King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE-2 King William Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS—Sir William P. Manning, Kt., Chairman;
George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D.; Chas. H. Myles, Esq. ;
Mark Sheldon, Esq. ; Arthur S. Barton, Esq.; Frank
N. Yarwood, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the world.
A. P. STEWART, General Manager.
The
Queensland National Bank,
Limited
o o
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital o in
Capital Paid Up 413,484 8 ™
Reserve (in Gov. Stock) ... •• ®4,000 ,0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock . 3,091,669 4 5
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 Specially Protected.
Directors: JAS. MILNE, Esq., Chairman; JAMES
MUNRO, Esq. ; Hon. A. J. CALLAN, Esq., M.L.C. ;
JOHN CAMERON, Esq. ; F. LORD, Esq.
General Manager— W. V. RALSTON.
Branches—London, Sydney & throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Oanada, South Africa, China, the East.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. ..
Reserve Liability of Shareholders
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock)
£519,237 0 0
161,384 0 0
75,500 0 0
£756,121 0 0
HEAD OFFICE : BRISBANE.
Gen Mngr.: Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Bow, Cannon Street, London,
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
The Colonial mutual pe
assurance society limited
! FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds. £3,000,000.
Policies Issued n6.1r»4-Assunng £33,888 510.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,727,264.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributer..
Chief Office for New South Wales :
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hoi. C. J. Roberts, O.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruck Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Shipping.
REDUCED FARES
To EUROPE
BY
l3 eutscher I-^loyd.
' PASSENGERS booked to Egypt, Naples,
Genoa, Algiers, Marseilles, Gibraltar,
London, Antwerp, and Bremen.
w Fitted with “ Wireless ” installation.
* Fitted with Gymnasium.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
REGULAR FOUR - WEEKLY MAIL
SERVICE from Sydney and Brisbane, via
New Guinea, by Twin-screw Steamers.
For Passage and Full Particulars apply to —
LOHMANN & CO.. General Agents,
7 & 9 Bridge Street, Sydney ;
OSTERMKYER DEYVEZ & VAN ROMPACY, Melbourne ;
H. MUECKE & CO., Adelaide;
L. RATAZZI & 00., Perth and Fremantle;
THOS. BROWN & SONS, Ltd., Brisbane and Townsville.
mHE BULLETIN POST CARDS—New
X Series. IV., V.. VI. Packet of Twelve,
6d. ; Packet of Ten, sd. Forwaided Post Free
to any address.
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth and
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
o Fitted Wireless Telegraphy,
f One Class Only.
FARES— Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. - From £57 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l/ 17s.
Special Return Tickets available for outward passage
by Orient Line—£ll2 (First-class each way); £B5
(Second-class Orient).
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
DALCETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE*
DURBAN, CAPETOWN, PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
ghjhjhjkjhk
Twin-screw Steamers.
RUNIC, 12,500 tons, to sail about
June 7.
IEDIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
July 5.
FRIO, SUEVIO and PERSIC to follow.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy and
Submarine Signalling Apparatus.
Om/ One Class of Accommodation.
FAHES-Oauetown 0 " Durban *l5 15 0 to AX S 0
Melbourne . • ■ •• 110 0
New York, Boston, Quebec,
Montreal, &c. from 15 0 0
Pamphlets and all-other information on application.
T.UGGAGK Received Only on Day of Sailing,
DALGETY & COMPANY, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
% YOUR WINTER
HOLIDAY.
SEND for our Booklet, “Papua and the
Pacific Islands, How to visit them?”
describing many delightful Island trips from
io upwards. Most attractive as Winter
Holiday Cruises.
*•#»
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., 11 Bridge St., Sydney.
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES,
HEAD OFFICE: MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
MONEY TO LEND
To Farmers and Settlers from £5O to £2OOO,
repayable by instalments extending- over 30 years
with right to repay loan without penalty.
Partial repayments on fu\orable terms.
Low rates of interest.
Valuation Fees on lowest scale.
On Investment up to £25,C00 for fixed terms not
exceeding five years on Freeholds or Certificated C- .
and Associated 0.1/s. Interest payable half-yearly.
Right to repay one-fifth of principal each y
allowed. _ .
Lowest current rates of interest.
Full particulars and forms of application /oHoans obtainable at any Branch or Post
Crown Land* Agents and at the Head Office, MOORE STREEI, M lun&i. ~
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
EstabSishod 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
ghjhjhjkjhk
£2,817,660
£1,872,695
£2,817,660
£7,503,015
DIRECTORS:
The Hon. 0. K. MacKellar, M.L.C., Presiden
Senator The Hon. James Thonaas Walker.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.O.
Auditors : Alfred George Milson, Esq. ; William Harrington Palmer, Esq.
Office—George St., Sydney. _ London Office-64 Old BroadM^tC^
\Vittf3i9 Branches in all the Australian States, New Zealand, I iji and Papua (New South W a l * es I l^’ d Y lc^ r . la 7 J
Queensland 47 South Australia 5, West Australia 11, New Zealand 54, Fiji 3, Papua 2 London 1) and
Agents and Correspondents throughout Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India, China, Japan, and
the East Africa Canada, the United States, South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
the Cabl’e remktancesm’ade to, and Drafts drawn on, Foreign.pieces
collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued NEG ©TI ABLE TH ROUG HOUT EWORLD
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up
Reserve Fund
Reserve Capital
£1,500,000 0 0
1,420,000 0 0
1,500,000 0 0
£4,420,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
George J. Cohen, Esq Chairman.
Hon II E. Rater, M.L.C Deputy-Chairman.
Hon! H.' Moses, M.L.C. A. J. Onslow Thompson, Esq.
Hon. James Burns, M.L.C.
Auditors : E. S. Cape, Esq., and F. W. Hixson, Esq.
General Manager : T. A. Dibbs.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
H. H. Massie.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
Manager : A. J. Soutar.
Accountant: W. R. Sayers.
Secretary: M. S. Grant.
Branch Accountant: J. Clayton.
Inspectors:
W. C. B. Tilby, W. H. Pinhey.
London Office: 18 Birchin - Lane.
Directors : F. H. Dangar, Esq. ; Hon. 11. S. Littleton ;
N. D- Cohen, Esq.
Manager, F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
The METROPOLITAN “S' g e e~ t er»E e
INSURANCE COMPANY, LIMITED.
THE CO-OPERATIVE FIRE OFFICE.
Shares Issued to Contributors of Business.
When Your Premium is Due Get Full Particulars.
HEAD OFFICE: 30 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
BRANCHES: Victoria, S. Aus., Queensland.
4 N Australian’s Two Hands —THE LONE
HAND and THE BULLETIN. You can’t
do without either, and they both cost the same.
THE OCEAN
Accident & Guarantee
Corporation Limited,
Ocean House, 22 Moore Street, Sydney.
Fire, accident, workmen’s com-
pensation, PUBLIC RISK, BUR-
GLARY and PL ATE-GLASS INSURANCES
at Lowest Rates. .
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Colline-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. -*7,5°0 0 0
Dirkctors: R. Murray Smith, Esq., C.M.G. , Chairman ,
John Grice, Esq., Vice-Chairman; Hon. J. M. Pratt; J. H.
MacFarland, Esa., M.A., LL.D. ; Alexander M Cracken.
JAMES BORROW MAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
Royal Agricultural Hall, London, England.
CORONATION YEAR. Visitors interested should
make arrangements to attend, the following recog-
nised TRADE gatherings.
The Confectioners, Bakers and Allied Traders’
19th ANNUAL EXHIBITION and MARKET,
September 2 to 9, 1911.
The Grocery and Allied Trades’
19th ANNUAL EXHIBITION and MARKET,
September 16 to 23, 1911.
The Brewers and Allied Traders’
33rd ANNUAL EXHIBITION and MARKET,
October 14 to 20, 19! >.
The Best Markets for Buyers.
VALUABLE COMPETITIONS and DEMONSTRATIONS.
ARTHUR T. DALE, Managing Director.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australia* South Australian,
Victorian and Quaansiand Ports*
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
FREMANTLE.
Transhippin? at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
GERALDTON (W.A.)
S.S. Kanowna, May 27 and
June .24
(To Fremantle without
transhipment), eonnect-
irur with Koombaua
in Fremantle for North
West Ports.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Oairns.
S.S. Grantala, May 27.
S.S. Marloo, June 3.
S.S. Wollowra, June 10.
Best anti Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO.. LTD..
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
CANADIAH-AUSTRAUAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALLrIiED ROUTE.
To VANCOUVER, via BRISBANE,
FIJI, and HONOLULU, thence
by Rail to any part of CANADA
or UNITED STATES.
The Best Route to Europe.
SAILINGS :
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
* Via Auckland, New Zealand ; omits Brisbane.
Illustrated Pamphlets Free on Application.
Agents throughout Canada, United States
and Europe—Canadian Pacific Railway Co.
For full particulars apply—
UNION STEAM SNIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George-screet, Sydney.
F.— H. 5.
Federol-Houlder-Shire Lines.
STEAM TO LONDON
Via SUEZ CANAL.
T.S.S. "DORSET,”
11.400 Tons. W. L. Prentice. Commander
Will be despatched from BRISBANE - about 23rd May
~ SYDNEY-'- „ 30th May
„ MELBOURNE ~ 3rd June
„ ~ HOBART „ 7th June
” „ ~ ADELAIDE - „ 13th June
The saloon accommodation consists of all two-berth
cabins on the upper deck, situated
The superior third-class accommodation, comprised of
two, four and eight-berth cabins, situated on the main
deck, amidships, with dining room on the upper deck.
Well lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious decks.
Third-class passengers supplied with fresh provisions
from cool chamber throughout the voyage. Surgeon and
Stewardess carried. Electric light throughout. Return
and Round Trip tickets issued via Cape and (or) Suez
routes. Prepaid passages arranged.
Saloon. Third Class.
FARES .. .. £49 10s. £l3 13s. £l5 15s. £l7 17s.
Steerage fares from Brisbane One Guinea extra.
To be followed at regular four-weekly intervals by fast
twin-screw passenger steamers. For further information,
illustrated books, pamphlets, etc., apply to
BIRT & CO., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane;
H. JONES & CO., Ltd., Hobart;
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN & Co., Ltd., Melbourne;
ELDER', SMITH & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.,
— FOR
Ordinary $ Industrial Life Assurance.
Directors:
H. Montgomerie Hamilton, Esq., Chairman.
Victor E. Ludlow, Esq., L.R.C.5.1., L.K.Q.C.P.I.
Claude Manning, Esq.
John F. Ure, Esq.
Ceneral Manager : J. A. Henderson.
Secretary: Consulting Actuary.
Freeman J. Eaton. W. R. Day, F.I.A.
Head Office:
30 CASTLEREACH ST. (facing Moore St.), SYDNEY.
Queensland:
Metropolitan Buildings,
Adelaide St., Brisbane.
Victoria:
48 Queen St.,
Melbourne.
The “Metropolitan” always has vacancies on its
Agency Staff for reliable and trustworthy men.
Millars’ Karri 8 Jarrah
to. (1902), Ltd.
Wb Supply—
Jarrah Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’ Scant*
ling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
72 BISHOPSfGATE STREET WITHIN,
LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN'S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
6SJ PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.VY.
Branches in all parts of the world.
THE Australian Magazine. THE LONE
HAND, the National Monthly. Price 6d.
‘ KLINX,’ ‘TENASITOT
—Cements lor breakages, manufacturing purposes, etc.


EORGE. HOTEL,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
HOTEL
CECIL
(LONDON).
The largest and
most magnificent
Hotel in Europe.
O Intending visitors
to the CORONATION
should book their
rooms early.
Cable Address: “CECELIA, LONDON.”
c Cariff Booklet gratia
at office of thia paper.
oH
'(X
Every pen has a point.
Here are eleven points you
ought to remember:
The first is the Onoto fills
itself in a flash from any
ink supply.
The second is it cannot
leak.
The rest are “To get an
Onoto now” —for posses-
sion is nine points, says
the law.
Get an Onoto pen, and know wb.at
writing comfort really is.
Your own pen, suited to your hand,
wherever you may happen to bo.
Self-Filling - .
Safety Fountain
Pctt
Price 12/- and upwards, at all
Stationers, Stores, Jewellers, &c.
British made by British labour.
Booklet free on application to Thos.
Be La Rue & Co., Ltd., 195 Bunhill
Row, E.C., or the Australasian Repre-
sentative, Norman Baker, 50 York
Street, Sydney.
Important. —For those who require a larger
pen witfct a very flexible nib, a special model
the new G—has been put on the market.
It is exceptional value fur the money. Try
this new G at your stationer’s
Always use ONOTO INK—the best for
fountain and all other pens.
“ rpHE Australian thinks in Continents,because
I he is tiie only man who has a Continent
to think in.” THE LONE HAND is the only
Magazine that caters for a Continent.
In HEALTH or SICKNESS
Take regularly the ‘Allenburys’Diet. It is most easy of assimilation, increasing vitality
and diminishing fatigue. It restores the impaired digestion and gives tone to the whole
system. Prepared from pure, rich milk and whole wheat, combined in a partially
predigested form, the ‘Allenburys’ Diet is a complete food, and is valuable alike for
the Invalid and Robust. Made in a Minute — add boiling water only.
Allen & Hanburys
Ltd.
LONDON, ENGLAND, and
MARKET STREET, SYDNEY
ghjhjhjkjhk
»
ghjhjhjkjhk
!. A Tearing, Hacking Cough ?
2. A Stuffed-up Chest?
3. A Teasing Irritation in your Throat?
4- A Difficulty in Breathing?
5. A Cold in Your Head ?
6. A Fit of Sneezing ?
7. A Pain in Your Chest ?
8. A Shortness of Breath ?
9. “Only a Bit of a Cold?”
HAVE
YOU?
IF YOU HAVE, TAKE
HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE
THE GRANDEST REMEDY FOR
COUGHS & COLDS
"A STITCH IN TIME SAVES NINE.”
FROM ALL CHEMISTS AND STOREKEEPERS, AND
W. G. HEARNE & CO., Ltd., Geelong, Vic.
N.S.W. Branch Office s 522 George Street, Sydney.
BULLETIN POST CARDS
PACKET OF TWELVE 6d. PACKET CF TEN sd.
ghjhjhjkjhk
The World’s Standard
Valveless Engine.
ghjhjhjkjhk
YOU CANNOT AFFORD
to be without Power for your Farm
or Workshop.
Write nearest Agent TO-DAY, giving particulars of
any Machine or Plant for which you require Power
at a Minimum Cost.
A 20th CENTURY FERRO FORMULA.
LABOR minus POWER equals Small Out-
put; Small Profits.
LABOR plus POWER equals Larger Out-
put ; Larger Profits.
LABOR plus FERRO POWER equals
Largest Output; Largest Profits.
Let us Help You—with a
FERRO—to Make Profits.
Made in 3,4, 5/ 2f 7#, 8, 11, 12, 15, 17, 25 h.p.
Suitable for STATIONARY, PORTABLE or MARINE USE.
FERRO ACENTS:
Acme Motor & Eng. Co., Lonsdale St., MELBOURNE.
Hall Bros., Druitt St., SYDNEY.
Howard Motor & Cycle Co., Queen St., BRISBANE.
F. d. Langley, Torrens St. E., ADELAIDE.
Perth Motor House, Hay St., FERTH.
Wearne & Geard, LAUNCESTON.
H. T. Moors, APIA, SAMOA.
Hayward & Garrett, Stuart St., DUNEDIN.
J. F. Connelly, Fort Street, AUCKLAND.
WHY YOU CAN TRUST MY
FREE CIGAR
TRIAL
aart\ t
ALMOST everybody knows about my efforts
to make Cigar-smoking popular in Aus-
tralia.
My FREE CIGAR TRIAL is this:—l’ll send
you a box of ioo DIADEMAS for 22/6—equal, as
they are, to any 6d. Cigar on the market; really
worth £2 ss. per 100 —and you can smoke 5 or 6
of them. If they aren’t as good as any Cigar
you have ever tried, send the remainder back to
me, and I’ll refund your money in full, without
any charge for those you’ve smoked.
ghjhjhjkjhk
Now, I want to prove to
you how straight this offer is.
You might think—“ Why
doesn’t he send the box up
without any money, and let
us send the money on when
we’ve tried the 5 or 6 and
found them as good as he
says, or else return the
balance then ?”
I tell you right off, I’d like
to do that. But that would
put all the trusting on my
side—and I've got to make a
living.
I know nearly eveiy man-
jack ofyou would act straight
tome if I did make this offer.
But you know as well as I
there are some who would
get the Cigars, and let me
whistle for the money.
I know there’d be only a
few who would do this; but
I sell my Cigars so close to
cost —cutting off all the ware-
houseman's, traveller's and
retailer's profits—that these
few would cripple my scheme
altogether. That's why I
can't do it and give the Same
Cigar value as I give to-day.
I know you’re trusting me
in sending down the money
before you get the Cigars.
But you’ll get the Cigars
right by return post, never
fear, You can smoke sor 6
of them, and if they’re not
as good as you expected,
you can send what are left
right back. I’ll return your money every
penny of it, with no deduction whatever—
and even here you needn't only take my word
for it.
I have my banking account at the Com-
mercial Bank of Australia Limited, Melbourne.
The General Manager there knows all about
me and my way of doing business. He’ll vouch
for me; and you can refer to him before you
send any order at all to me. That’s proof of my
squareness, isn’t it?
Sit down now and send me 22/6 to-day, and
I’ll forward you a box of 100 DIADEMAS—
Cigars that I promise are equal to any 6d.
Cigar sold in Australia —made from clean, long,
straight Brazilian leaf, and rolled in the finest
Java wrapper.
My Only Address is
LOUIS KAUFFMANN
54 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE
Illustrated Descriptive Booklet will be
Mailed Free to any address.
“LINSEED COMPOUND.”— The “Stockport
Remedy’’for Coughs & Colds. Of 40years’proven efficacy.


Children Thrive
on ANGLER’S.
There is nothing better for delicate children than a
course of Angier’s Emulsion. Bland and pleasant,
soothing alike to throat, lungs, stomach and intestines,
an aid to appetite and digestion, and a splendid tonic and
builder, it is the ideal remedy for children’s ailments, and
no mother should be without a bottle in the house. The
medical profession prescribe Angier’s Emulsion not only
for coughs, bronchitis, whooping cough and all lung
affections, but also for scrofula, rickets and all wasting
diseases. Of Chemists, 1/3, 2/9 and 4/6.
“THE CHANGE IN HER IS WONDERFUL.”
8 Hampden Street, North Sydney, Aus.
Dear Sirs, —My little girl has been a constant anxiety owing to
loss of appetite and a very trying cough. I was so pleased to see
her relish her food after she had had a sample bottle of Angier’s
that I got a large (4/6) bottle, which she has just finished. The
change in her is wonderful; the cough is quite gone, she has put on
firm flesh and has a good colour and appetite. To have accomplished
this with a really palatable mixture is a great cause of thankfulness
to me and you have my full consent to publish this letter in case it
may persuade other mothers to try Angier's Emulsion.
(Signed) Mrs. K. WILKINS.
A FREE SAMPLE
receipt of 4d. postage; mention this paper.
v>
I'lfilfa
III!:!
1!
m
li •
B I
THE ANGIER CHEMICAL CO., Ltd., 7 Barrack St., Sydney.
NEURALGIA.
If the affected parts are bathed freely with
Chamberlain’s Pain Balm those stabbing, burning,
darting pains will Rub the Balm
well in several times keeping the
patient warm and out rtf* tlfeVcbTa wind. Dozens
of people suffering from neuralgia have been
cured by the use of Chamberlain’s Pain Balm.*
TAILOR-
MADE,
3716
THIS illustration
gives you some
idea of the smart-
ness of the Finney work.
It’s a Tailor-made
Skirt in navy blue or
black serge ; front panel
is prettily braided, and
the sides are pleated
from hip to knee. It is
finished with buttons
and braiding. -
The price is
37/6
Two other styles will
interest you, too :
s
■f
NS67
NSS7 —Tailor-made Skirt, in Navy Blue
and Black Serge, and stripe effect in
Tweed ; trimmed with four straps from
front, panel finished with Velveteen tips
and buttons and raised seams, 14/6.
NSS6 —Neat Tailor-made Skirt, in Navy
Blue and Black Sicilian and striped
Tweed effects; trimmed straps from,
front to back, panel finished buttons
and raised seams, 19/6.
Finney, Isles 8 Co.
LIMITED,
The Big' BRISBANE.
BlocK,
IN
BANANA LAND
May 10 was the fiftieth anniversary of the
arrival in Brisbane of Bishop O’Quinn, the
first R.C. Bishop of the Northern capital.
He died in August, 1881, and was succeeded
by Bishop Dunne, who, though now very
feeble, is still in charge.
Walkers, Limited, of Maryborough, turned
out its 150th locomotive the other day. The
first was built as far back as 1873, while the
Stinking Fishermen of Freetrade Sydney
were saying that Australia naturally
couldn’t make so much as a mousetrap.
Southern Queensland is beginning to rea-
lise that dengue is not to be trifled with.
The mortality this year has been alarming;
and in scores of cases the patient has actu-
ally invited the undertaker to call. People
have gone on assuming that the fever is
only a trivial matter. Neglect has been fol-
lowed by a relapse, and relapse has, in dozens
of instances, been followed by a hearse.
“Chloe”: I have seen the best coffee plan-
tations in Java and Ceylon, and nothing
among them is finer than the crop now turn-
ing crimson and orange on the basalt slopes
of Buderim Mountain, only about 30 miles
from Brisbane. It is an ideal home for
the berry, and mile after mile of the country
of the same character is lying unoccupied.
For over a quarter of a century the berry
has been grown here, yet to-day there is
still only a handful of small growers, each
with his ancient hand-mill and hand-worked
oven. This primitive process is deadly in
a climate like Brisbane’s, besides involving
a loss of all the caffein, a by-product of al-
most as great commercial value as the coffee
itself. And still the coffee is never heard of
beyond Brisbane, and indeed is hardly known
there. A glance at any “Year Book of Aus-
tralia” will show what sum goes annually to
Asiatic growers ; and as Queensland has it-
self shown by its sugar industry what can
be done by a White Australia, this writer
says to the Queensland coffee growers, “Com-
bine ! Hustle! Get a move on after 30
years of sleep! Stop reading the papers
that are ruining their country with their
pessimistic cry of ‘The price of labor will
ruin the agriculturist!’ ” The price of la-
bor won’t; but the taste of Australian coffee
drinkers will be ruined by the vile compound
known as “coffee,” if a better local article
isn’t put on the market. Anyone who has
been domiciled for any time in Java, and has
used the fragrant, pale-golden, clear, pun-
gent-tasting coffee of the Dutch hotels at
Batavia and Sourabaya, finds it hard to
realise that the atrocious compound of cof-
fee, chicory (adulterated) and burnt sugar
is known by the same name in Australia.
From the North:—
Private Enterprise usually takes care that it
doesn’t pinch the man who can punch; but it made a
mistake at Mackay the other day. The Bananaland
Government appointed a Commission (with Iveele,
of Sydney, as chairman) to measure up the
shipping facilities and possibilities of Mackay.
After they had got ashore, and felt whether
any bones were broken, one member remarked
that sheep w T ere better treated than passengers.
From their own experiences at Flat Top anchorage
(three miles from Mackay) they were convinced the
shipping cos. had no consideration for human travel-
lers. The coasting steamer dropped anchor at about
3 a.m., and passengers were crowded on to a small
lighter, where there were no conveniences of any
description. To help make more room available, the
four members of the Commission’s party climbed
into the only dingey, on the vessel’s bridge. Had the
ship sprung a leak with the bumping, the lifeboat
would not have held a sixth of those on board. Not
a lifebelt or lifebuoy could be seen anywhere.
“But the crew knew where they were,” insisted a
witness, to which the Commission retorted in effect
that drowned men tell no tales.
A DAUGHTER OF EVE.
MABEL: “ Aren't you going home
with Teddy Smith to-day? ”
TOTTIE: “ Oh, no! We spent his school
money yesterday .”
Still another death from starvation on
the Inky Way of the North. The
corpse this time is the Wild River Times.
The dreadful fluctuation of the fortunes of
the mining camp is mainly responsible for
littering the North witn these ink-stained
bones. Sometimes, even with that handi-
cap, they might pull through; but the big
well-equipped paper of the settled towns
dashes in with its budget of local news, and
the poor little struggling rag is counted out.
Some time ago a Sydney firm got an order
for a 32ft. motor-boat, from some rubber
planters in the New Hebrides. It was duly
made, and a Sydney mechanic started out
the other day to deliver the goods. He is
captain and engineer all in one, and has a
crew of two Kanakas. He called in at
Brisbane on the way, and plainly wasn’t wor-
ried by the fact that he had 1200 miles of
open sea ahead of him.
THE STRANDED GHOUL
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Our birth-rate keeps on rising ; our death-rate con-
tinues to sink. This is a bad country for undertakers.—
Brisbane paper.
Send up a sigh for the disused hearse,
Breathe up a scrap of an olden prayer;
Let me tell in a language terse
All my sorrow and all my care ;
Biz is dull, and the Corpse is rare,
Hence, O Brothers, my tale of dool,
Death hath fled from a germless air—
Pity the woes of a Stranded Ghoul!
The death-rate’s going from bad to worse,
Less and less is the sexton’s share ;
Coffins gape, like an empty purse,
“ Churchyards yawn ” and the board is bare ;
Plague is rife in the Manchu lair—
No such luck for a hapless fool
Waiting here for a dead man’s fare !
Pity the woes of a Stranded Ghoul!
“ Birth-rate’s up ! ” Ah, it makes one curse
Just to think of the wrecks they spare,
Just to think of the shells they nurse
Back to life, and how well they wear !
Hang the Press with its “ healthy ” blare,
Duns grow hotter and friends grow cool,
Pass me by with a distant stare —
Pity the woes of a Stranded Ghoul!
Envoi.
Did I dream that a cholera-scare
Swept the land till the dawn of Yule ?
Mocking dreams—but I may not swear !
Pity the woes of a Stranded Ghoul 1
Queensland;
F.B.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, May 13, 1911.
My Dear Thargomindaii,—
The Vision still entertains largely, and a
ball and another garden party are an-
nounced. The ball, of course, is the Coro-
nation hop, and is to take place in the
Museum, his Ex. having seized the oppor-
tunity of a general clean-up by Curator
Hamlyn Harris, to obtain the use of the
largest floor-space available in Brisbane. *
At the official welcome to Commander Hyde
and the officers of the visiting Australian
destroyers, Premier Denham, either by acci-
dent or by design, applauded the Labor
party in the Commonwealth for its platform
planks—Protection for Australian industries
and Defence. Whereat, my dear, everybody
forgot that Denham had been doing his best
to politically ruin the party responsible for
the carrying out of these reforms, and passed
him the loud aplause. I hooted under my
breath rather than spoil the harmony.
Mayor and Mayoress Diddams entertained
the officers of the Yarra and Parramatta,
also some local warriors, at the Empire
Music Hall. Proprietors Holland and St.
John, rising to the patriotic Occasion, pre-
sented a large bouquet to the Mayoress, and
supped the whole party. The uniformed
heroes and the stage beauties shared the
honors of the evening.
These Jack Tars of ours are also getting
their hands in as social entertainers, and did
the champagne and biscuits well on the oc-
casions of the official calls.
Digby Denham, whose admiring consti-
tuents propose to burden him with more
family plate and cutlery, is, at tinje of
writing, touring the West, accompanied by
Mrs. Denham; Home Secretary Appel is
picnicking in the North; while Minister
for Agriculture Tolmie is studying the
native elector in the Central districts. I
have heard something about a re-distribution
of seats scheme and a general election.
The Commercial Rowing Club ball brought
forth four Suffers, a whole regiment of new
men, a good supper, excellent music, frocks
absolutely innocent of last-season scandal,
and —what more could the most captious de-
sire ? Anyhow, when Deputy-Governor Morgan
(who brought along Mrs. D.-G.) said
“good-night” to secretary Wetherill, he re-
marked that the show had been right up to
snuff, or something that meant the same,
thing.
More weddings! Musical Brisbane re-
cently extended the usual butter-dish and
biscuit-barrel to baritone Stanley Lewis and
pianiste Alma James, who covenanted to-
gether. Now, Mina Macdonald, one of the
bevy of pretty Macdonald sisters, is to wed
a Crombie; and Rica Darvall is bearing up
under a shoal of invitations to congratula-
tory teas. The lucky man, in her case, is
one of the Bells of Coochin.
Archbishop Donaldson displayed unwonted
tact when, to placate the congregation of
All Saints, he appointed as their shepherd
the evicted Douglas Price’s personal friend,
oDe Nightingale, of Charters Towers. The
gentleman with the musical name possesses
a sense of humor that should speedily soften
the hearts of the irate saints and sinners.
May 10 saw the fiftieth anniversary of
the landing in Brisbane of the Sisters of
Mercy, a little band of six who arrived with
Bishop O’Quinn. Their work has kept pace
with the advance of Queensland. The only
survivor of the original six is Mother Brid-
get, the gentle head of that excellently-con-
ducted institution, the St. Vincent’s Orphan-
age, at Nudgee. It was the Sisters of Mercy
who erected the Mater Misericordise Hos-
pital in Dublin, and the local Sisters have
just finished the Brisbane Mater.
The much-postponed meet of the Auto-
mobile Club took place on Saturday. Dr.
and Miss Brockway tea-d the hungry mo-
torists, and a run round pretty little Cleve-
land preceded a joyous rush for home.
An automobile run throws interesting
sidelights on human nature. For instance,
a motorist never loses his superiority.
Should he be beaten by Smith, then Smith
is “taking years off the life of his car."
But should he beat Smith, why, Smith Is
only getting his just deserts for “wasting
money on an inferior car.”
Mrs. Dou Bond, one of the Toowoomba
Chronicle Grooms, left by the Marama on
Wednesday to see America at work; thence
to England and the Continong. The travel-
ling microbe has infected her badly. Last
year she was addressing her characteristi-
cally cheery and entertaining letters from
Japan.
Dr. Lilian Cooper and Miss Bedford —
the latter, by the way, a cousin of Admiral
Bedford, late of Westralia —leave next
month for the Cold Country..
The first subscription concert of the Bris-
bane Liedertafel’s 1911 season was given
during the week, and showed that, while
conductor Robert Kaye had worked great
general improvements, he had not elimin-
ated from the male units the passion for in-
dividual interpretation. However, the so-
loists, Miss Lena Hammond and Mr. Crisp,
were sufficient atonement for the slight in-
adequacies of the choir and orchestra.
Talking of soloists, Mrs. Robert Bell, In
a much-bejewelled gown, delighted an Orches-
tral Society audience last week. The little
brunette has become a firm favorite with
Brisbane music-lovers.
Brisbane girls are hurrying to and from
country race-meetings and the inevitable
accompanying dance, and enjoying them
both; which is easily understood, seeing
that the Outback man can waltz as well as
he can ride. House parties in different
centres are giving him all the practice he
requires.
At a local amateur show the other even-
ing, there bounded on to the stage a vision
in pink tights and short pink tunic, eked
out with a silver tasselled girdle. After a
silent moment of horrified contemplation,
an elderly gentleman was heard to utter in
accents of awe, “Well, thank God for the
tassels, anyway.”
Barrister J. W. Bain, well known in
journalistic circles, breaks loose from news-
paper work this month, and leaves for 12
months’ tour of the world.
Yours affectionately,
MARIO.
Although North Queensland can hold its
own in the long-distance moisture competi-
tion, the record for the 24 hours’ event still
remains in the South. It was put up by
Crohamhurst, on the Stanley River (a tribu-
tary of the Brisbane), during the ’93 flood,
and the tally was 35.71 inches for the day.
Even this praiseworthy effort is not a world’s
record, though. At Cherra Ponjee, in the
Khasi Hills, Assam, 40.80 inches have been
registered in a day. If it rained less damp-
ness and more soap thereabouts, our brown
brother Butna might be a little less insani-
tary when he arrives in Australia.


ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS OF
LONDON STORES LIMITED
(To bo Registered under the “Companies Act 1910.”)
Capital £lOO,OOO, in 100,000 Shares of £1 each.
. - f
40,000 shares of £1 each are now offered to the public, payable 10s. on application and lOs. on
allotment. j
30,000 shares fully paid up to be allotted and issued to the vendor, Mr. Frank Samuel Meyers,
as hereinafter provided, which said shares shall not be transferable or disposed of for a
period of two years without the consent in writing of the Board of Directors.
30,000 shares to be held in reserve for future use, if necessary.
The proceeds of the issue are to be applied after payment of preliminary expenses and brokerage towards payment of the purchase money of the businesses and
concerns acquired by the Company, and the balance is to be placed to the credit of the Company as working capital.
Directors :
FRANK SAMUEL MEYERS, Esq., Numbers 345-361 Bourke Street, Melbourne,
the vendor and the present proprietor of The London Stores, Melbourne, shall
be one of the first Directors of the Company, and also its Managing Director.
Cr. THOMAS JAMES DAVEY (the Lord Mayor of Melbourne), Town Hall,
Melbourne ; and
WILLIAM HENRY FELSTEAD, Esq., of Beath, Schiess and Felstead, Ware-
housemen, Flinders Lane, Melbourne, shall be the other Directors.
Bankers:
THE BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED, Melbourne.
Soliciiors:
HEDDERWICK, FOOKES & ALSTON, 103 Williams Street, Melbourne.
Brokers :
WARD & CO., 383 Collins Street (corner Queen Street), Melbourne.
WALLACE H. SMITH & CO., of 377 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Auditor: E. D: CRELLIN, F.C.P.A., 31 Queen Street, Melbourne.
OBJECTS.
The Company is being formed for the purpose of acquiring as a going concern the Clothing, Mercery and General Outfitting businesses now being conducted by
Mr. FRANK SAMUEL MEYERS (trading under the title of “ THE LONDON STORES ”), including all the assets of such concerns, on the terms and conditions
set out in the agreement dated May io, 1911, made between FRANK SAMUEL MEYERS of the one part, and EDWARD WARD, trustee for the Company, of the
second part.
The businesses referred to are being carried on at the following addresses:—
“The London Stores”—Corner Bourke and Elizabeth Streets, Melbourne (opposite the G.P.0.).
“ The London Stores ”—234 and 236 Flinders Street, Melbourne (nearly opposite the main entrance to the Central Railway Station).
“The London Stores”—26s and 267 Chapel Street, Prahran (near Prahran Town Hall).
“ The Hub ”—220 and 222 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
“ The Londoji Stores ” —Brisbane Street, Launceston, Tasmania. ' _
The purchase money and consideration consist of the sum of to be paid in cash to the said Frank Samuel Meyers, and of the above-mentioned fully
paid-up shares to be allotted and issued to him—the said F. S. Meyers undertaking not to transfer or dispose of same for a period of two years without the consent in
writing of the Board of Directors.
The businesses are to be taken over as from the Ist day of February, iqii. and the Company is to receive from the vendor the profits earned therein since that
date, which are estimated at
AUDITOR’S REPORT.
The affairs of the business have been closely examined by the well-known
Public Accountant, Mr. E. D. Crellin, F.C.P.A., of 31 Queen Street, Melbourne,
whose report is as follows
Broken Hill Chambers, 31 Queen Street,
Melbourne, 12th April, 1911.
I beg to state that I have examined the books of the London Stores and the Sub-
sidiary Branches for the eighteen months ended 31st January, 1911, and find that the net
profit earned, as disclosed by the books, was at the rate of f 11,316 per annum, after
writing down the fixtures and furniture very heavily. ■
The business shows a steady increase each half-year, the profit for the last six
months amounting to £6513.
The surplus of assets over liabilities is as shown in the accompanying statement;
BUT DOES NOT INCLUDE ANY VALUATION FOR LEASEHOLDS, ALTHOUGH
CONSIDERABLE VALUE SHOULD BE ATTACHABLE TO THE LONG LEASES
FOR THE BOURKE STREET AND CHAPEL STREET PROPERTIES.
LONDON STORES.
ASSETS as at the 31st January, 1911.
By Stock at cost, less ordinary depreciation £25,844, less Special Re-
serve, £5OOO . .
„ Stock Reserve, as above . . • • •. - •
„ Sundry debtors ...
„j Sundry debtors, due on goods manufactured and awaiting de-
livery against which deposits have been paid
„ Special amount owing—since paid
Fittings and manufacturing plant at Head Store, Bourke Street, cost
during last five years £4284. Written dowh to ..
The plant is valued at nearly £5OO
Flinders Street fittings cost during last 18 months £1,308.
Written down to ....
Prahran fittings—expended in December last ..
Cash in hand and in bank
Less sundry creditors and bills payable
Surplus of assets over liabilities . .
*ln addition to the above assets, the profits for the three months end-
ing 30th April, I estimate, should be well over
£20,844
5,000
£25,844
1,122
928
500
.. ' 1,608
999
1,820
5,002
£37,823
2,482
£35,341
3,000
£38,341
♦This is a conservative estimate, as the sales for February and Marph amount to 30 per cent,
more than those for the corresponding months in 1910.
As the business is practically a cash one, the book debts at 31st January last
amounted to only £1076, and the sundry customers' accounts to £928, the latter being on
account of goods ordered and in course of manufacture, and on which deposits have
been paid.
FIXTURES, FURNITURE and MANUFACTURING PLANT. —At the head store
the cost during the last five years was £Jf2Blt, but stands in the books at £1608; the
manufacturing plant alone has been valued at nearly £5OO. At the Hinders Street store,
which has been fitted up during the last 18 months, the cost was £l3OB, but stands in the
books at £999. At Prahran branch, which was opened in December last, the fittings
cost £lB2O, and appear in the books at that amount. At Launceston only the nominal
amount of £1 is shown; the expenditure of £BO has been written off during the last five
years. e. D. CRELLIN, F.C.P.A., Public Accountant.
It will be seen from the report tnat the tangible assets of the business, including a
stock reserve valued at £5OOO, are worth £38,341. The balance of the purchase money
is represented by goodwill, thus all the valuable leaseholds hereinafter mentioned are
being acquired without any further payment, and, basing calculations on the rents paid
for adjacent shops, considerable value should be attached to the satisfactory leases at the
head store and Prahran premises.
It will be further noted that FIXTURES AND FITTINGS HAVE BEEN
WRITTEN DOWN TO EXCEPTIONALLY LOW FIGURES.
THE AVERAGE NET PROFIT earned for the three half-years ended 31st January
last, as set out in the Auditor’s Report, WAS EQUAL TO A RETURN OF OVER 16
PER CENT. ON THE PROPOSED ISSUE FOR THE TIME BEING OF THE NEW
COMPANY (£70,000).
THE GROWTH OF THE BUSINESS has been continual during the pakt 12
years. The net result for the six months ended 31st January, 1911, was £6513, or at the
rate of over £13,000 per annum net profit.
LEASEHOLDS TO BE TAKEN OVER.—A fifteen years’ lease of the present
premises at the corner of Bourke and Elizabeth Streets, other than Nos. Bourke
Street, but including the additional shops and business chambers next door in Elizabeth
Street, lately acquired and now included under the new lease. The lease of Nos. 345-347
Bourke Street expires on 31st May, 1915. The Prahran lease is for twenty-one years;
the Flinders Street lease is for six years.
ALTERATIONS AND EXTENSIONS.—The head shop is to be renovated and im-
proved by the erection of island windows and the removal of partition walls. The
premises are now being extended so as to take in the adjoining shops just acquired in
Elizabeth Street. The total expenditure for these alterations and extensions, which will
be borne by the Company, is estimated at between £BOOO and £9OOO.
The position of the Head Stores is one 'of the best in Melbourne, and
when alterations are completed the appearance and business facilities of The
Stores should favorably compare with anything of the kind in the Common-
wealth.
NEW DEPARTMENTS. —The expansion of the business has been so large that for
some time the lack of room has been a source of serious inconvenience to every depart-
ment. The extra space resultant from the alterations will not only make available the
necessary additional room, BUT WILL ENABLE THE COMPANY TO OPEN UP
NEW AND PROFITABLE DEPARTMENTS.
PRAHRAN BUSINESS. —This shop is in a splendid position, and is fitted up upon
most modern lines. It was only opened at the end of 1910, and therefore had not a
chance of contributing materially to the profits of the last half-year, but, judging by the
present trade therein, this new branch of the business should have a very beneficial effect
upon total profits in future.
The business is conducted on an almost entirely cash basis, and yields a very satis-
factory margin of profits, without the usual attendant risks of bad debts.
MAN AGE MEN T. —The retaining of the services of Mr. Frank Samuel Meyers as
Managing Director for a period of not less than seven years ensures a continuance of
present sound and progressive management.
The minimum subscription on which directors may proceed to allotment is the full
issue of !fO,OOO shares.
The said FRANK SAMUEL MEYERS is the promoter of the Company.
As this advertisement is not intended to be a full prospectus within the meaning of
the Companies Act 1910, the requirements of section 88 of the Companies Act 1910 have
not been fully complied with in this advertisement.
This advertisement does not contain anything to which the requirements of section 88
of the Companies Act 1910 apply, and which is not in the prospectus or is inconsistent
with the prospectus.
The said full prospectus gives the particulars required by the Companies Act 1910,
and mentions other particulars relating to the Company.
Applications for shares will proceed only on one of the forms of application referred
to and endorsed on a printed copy of the prospectus.
Copies of the Full Prospectus and Forms of Application may be obtained from the Brokers
Messrs. WARD S CO..
383 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
(Corner of Queen Street), and
Messrs. W. H. SMITH 8 CO..
$77 COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
And also from the Solicitors of the Company, Messrs. HEDDERWICK, FOOXES and ALSTON, 103-5 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE


E6e
‘Boulevard.
The Latest
and
Smartest.
ghjhjhjkjhk
V
Will not
slip at heel.
PRICES—
-14/6, 18/6 & 21,
Pumps and low-cut Oxfords are the fashionable
Shoes for Women’s wear. The great objection to
pumps in the past has been that they would slip
off tiie heel.
THE “BOULEVARD,”
an entirely new style, is so cut that it cannot
slip. It is decidedly smart, and we guarantee it
to stay where it belongs.
Prices 14/6, 18/6 and 21/-
Postage in Victoria, 9d. ; oilier States, 1/- extra.
Gazeka Shoe Paste, in Black and
Brown. Largo Tins 6d.
Write for our Booklet “ Shoelight."
LEEMING’S,
109 Swanston Street, Melbourne ;
257-259 Bourke Street, Melbourne;
303 Chapel Street, Prahran ;
1 & 3 Errol Street, Nth. Melbourne.
NEW
Queensland Railways.
Thousands of men will be working on
these shortly, and the wise ones will
wear our
Signal Brand
Boots
especially made for this work.
EACH PAIR GUARANTEED.
Take no other brand if you wish for
satisfactory wear.
Demand them from your storekeeper.
MADE WITH UNION LABOR.
Have
Green
Soles.
*
THC
(RECIS
OUCH!
TERED)
Have
Green
Soles.
The Davey Halliday C? w
BRISBANE, Q.,
SOLE MANUFACTURERS.
THREE WITCHES
CIGARETTES.
M
. WfM.
MORRIS'S 1
meiMches
* ''""Wt*/:
ffoflO'l
LoadaS *w«
HIGHEST GRADE.
Ss per 100, Post Free.
MICK SIMMONS,
SYDNEY.
Storekeepers and Tobacconists should
send for our Trade Lists.
21
211-
Full of Style,
Wear and Comfort!
Fay’s Special Value—a grand Boot ! Made in
. High Quality Vici Kid, on the Latest and Best
Principle—good in every detail. Twenty-five
shillings’ worth of solid wear and style for a
guinea. It’s the famous Bostock’s Best Eng-
glish Make—newest style. Best English Oak
Tanned Soles, Hand Sewn. Get a pair if you’d
have something good. We’ll post them, if you
live away. Please add postage lI-
EDWARD FAY,
THE BIG BOOT BLOCK,
Write for Illustrated Catalogue
Post Free.
Corner PITT g LIVERPOOL STREETS,
And 716 GEORGE STREET, HAYMARKET.
PALMER
CORD
TYRES.
ghjhjhjkjhk
THE
BEST
TYRES.
USED ON THE KING’S CARS.
Palmer Cord Tyres.
Only those tyres which have PROVED better than all others have the honor
of our King’s patronage
Palmer Cord Tyres must, by reason of their unique and ingenious construction,
last longer and give greater satisfaction than those built upon a canvas foundation.
Apply for New Reduced Price List Issued under date Ist May, 1911.
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER CO.,
279 GEORGE STREET SYDNEY and at 33 Bolton Street, Newcastle.
COLDS
SANACINE prevents the wasting and tearing of the Tissues that occurs in violent colds,
clears away the congested phlegm, and speedily allays irritation and inflammation of the
respiratory organs, and strengthens the linings of the throat and nose. Colds, Influenza,
Lung Weakness, Head and Chest Colds, throat weakness and more virulent forms
of colds immediately yield to the vigorous curative action of Sanacine. A few doses
taken in the early stages diminish the severity of an attack, and a rapid cure is assured.
ghjhjhjkjhk
Sanacine benefits
Russian Royal Family
A Court Official writes: “Sanacine was introduced
to the Russian Imperial Family, and they have found
great benefit from using it.”
ghjhjhjkjhk
SANACINE
NATURE’S LUNG HEALER
An Invaluable Remedy lor
COUGHS
COLDS
ASTHMA
BRONCHITIS
CATARRH
INFLUENZA
CONGESTION
HOARSENESS
HUSKINESS
SORE THROAT
WHOOPINO COUGH
CHEST WEAKNESS
and all Disorders of the Lungs, Chest, and Throat.
Prices in Gt. Britain: Liquid and Tablets 1/1$ and 2/9. Sold by all Chemists, Stores, &c. in Australia.
Proprietors ASHTON & PARSONS, LIMITED, LONDON, E.C., ENGLAND
ghjhjhjkjhk
OSTRICH PLUHES
FROM OUR FAMOUS FARMS IN SOUTH AFRICA.
BLACK, WHITE, CREAM, GREY, NATURAL, or BLACK
TIPPED WITH WHITE (Length, 15 inches).
This style of Ostrich Feather is very fashionable.
10/6
POST FREE
to any address.
The Feathers we offer you cannot be bought for twice the
money in any other house. They are the Best Value in
Australia. Write to-day. Send Postal Notes or Money Order
payable to John Miller. Illustrated Catalogues Post Free.
MILLER S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner of Strand Arcade,
i Pitt-street, Sydney.
[Mention The Bulletin.]
Also at Corner of Bourke and Swanston Streets, MELBOURNE.
ghjhjhjkjhk
Buy a “PlvUM** 10/6.
Why use a Razor that drags, that pulls the hair out instead
of cutting with a velvety, soft touch? A “PLUM ” is a
perfect razor—fine silver-steel blade, tempered to a nicety,
and just glides over the roughest stubble, leaving the skin
like satin. We use “PLUMS” in our own saloon, and
guarantee to keep yours in order free for two years.
10/6
Post Free
Anywhere.
Send for our
Illustrated
Catalogue.
PLUM Razor, in Case, 10/6.
Pair in Case, 21/-
Singie Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-
The Plum Razor Strop, 10/6 and 7/6.
Other good hinds from 3/6 each.
Cake Universal Shaving Soap, Gd.
Razoleo Lightning Sharpener, 6d.
All the above Post Free.
We Grind and Set Razors, 1/- each.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
Established
30 Years.
The Inky Way.
Next to a defeated State Fright, the most furious
person is the suburban correspondent of a “big”
newspaper whose special article on the new water-
cart purchased by the council or the furious tennis
tournaments of the Church of England’s Young
2, e A Cll i| 3 , carved to the bone or otherwise
assaulted. Not long ago the sporting editor of one
T had the following letter dropped in on him •
Sir, I asked you to endeavor to get the bowl notices
ior to-day on the cable page. Will you kindly let
™ know if you tried. I waited from 10 a.m. until
».d0 pm. to get the information, spent about £3,
and got a dose of influenza, and then the information
is stuck anywhere. The Sydney Morning Herald
would have made a leading article about it.” Which,
though it may be true, is being unnecessarily unpleas-
ant to the Herald.
* * *
fi, Th T iS i wa ® the puff preliminary of that pioneer of
“ n lrl ky Wa F> th e Sydney Gazette, dated June 5,
1819. On the Ist of October will be published the
first number of the Australasian Magazine or
Quarterly Review; containing agricultural and
commercial reports, original essays, British intelli-
gence interesting to the Colony, with the domestic
occurrences of the day, including philosophical, mpral
and poetical essays, with an appendix of the arrivals
and departures, and every other matter connected
with or concerning the inhabitants of these terri-
tories. Each number will be embellished with an
appropriate engraving. The price of the publication
to each subscriber, one dollar on delivery. N B —The
editors of, the above work will be happy to' insert
any essays of merit, and invite accordingly a corres-
pondence from their subscribers.”
* * * *
“Montalex”: I observe that some of the Yankee
papers are reviving an idea first promulgated by me
that TH^^ U a L l TINj many / ears ago ' 1 then wrote
tnat, since a lare:e percentage of English words re-
main qmte intelligible after one, two, or even three
syllables have been lopped off the hinder part, “the
Eng lang can be considerab abbrev for the ben of
mon if ® tenoB Y’ The . Practice is already com-
sl,an »’ . and has also to some extent “made
£ ood , ln „ technical talk, as when a printer speaks of
an ad., or an actor of a “pro.” In fact—since a
spesh charac of the pres day is the endeav to obt the
max of efhsh with the min of exersh, conveni may
yet conk sentim, and this meth of abbrev becom prac
umver. A numb of small lib with ortliog would be
necess, as in the case of “conk,” just used for
conquer, but few peop would find much diffic in
automat making the necess modifica. [But suppos-
mg The Bulletin printed, “The nig is of more ult
bdi to the State than the Liberal ?” wd Greg Wad
gard”?j B ° S LUfl Under that nig stood f or “nig
* * * *
‘‘Billy Pressmen in Australasia are having
the time of their lives. In the Commonwealth, life
A S rH I Jlc’ C T7 briB ' hter v.- b l y watchin - the Writers and
Artists Union, which is hitched to the advanced
Labor movement, battling side by side with the
wealthy organs of Fat to keep working journalists
‘ ,oor the Federal Industrial Registrar’s
( iv? ee a \ n tle Dominion 10 entries per day on
the duty book cannot repress the joy in the re-
porters bosoms implanted by the publication of a
fpnfw ° f'X ln + Preparation for journalism re-
cently adopted by the University Senate at Christ-
church (M.L.). The course inckides: “I—English
language and literature, as for B.A. pass- Tl—-
General history, as for B.A. pass; lll—Economics
as for B.A. pass; IV—Constitutional history, as for
B.A. pass; V—Geography, as for Bachelor of Com-
merce; Vl—Statistical method, as for Bachelor of
Commerce; Vll—Psychology and logic, as for B.A
pass; VIII—A paper on the practical work of jour-
nahsm: the meaning of ‘news’; the respective value
of facts as news’; reporting; the writing of heads
and titles; paragraphing and summaries; the
economy of words; interviews; preparation of copy •
proofreading; the uses of works of reference, dic-
tionaries atlases, encyclopaedias, hand-books and year-
books of history and statistics, quotations; the proper
application of a knowledge of history, economics
and political science to contemporary public affairs •
the relations of a newspaper to the public; compari-
son of the methods and styles of representative news-
-in' d , Journa i s ; .advertising ; general acquaint-
ance' with the mechanical processes of printing books
and newspapers ; the general organisation of a news-
paper office. After that the aspirant will be given
a certificate that he is qualified to learn journalism
and sure enough, if he gets a job as a junior in a
good office he will learn—in the ordinary course of
events. Meanwhile the bright boy who washed the
rollers, and ran copy,” and brought in a couple of
pars, that he nosed out will get a start; and he will
bog m, and grab a “scoop” or two, and whale poli-
ticians, and become an editor before the other fellow
has turned into the jungle where a proper application
of a knowledge of history, economics and political
science to contemporary public affairs gambols in 14
languages and bellows in 400 different aspects simul-
taneously.
LINES WRITTEN IN DEPRESSION NEAR
FOOTSCRAY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Harmless album verse: why not send it to the
girl.— Answers to Correspondents.
“Thy fine arched eyebrows span above
The twin pools of thine eyes,
A bridge from, which the archer Love
IHs choicest arrow tries.”
John Smith had loved sweet Mary Brown
A whole, fair summer long;
And Love, who erst put heroes down,
Disdained not playing with a clown,
And drove him into song.
“Thy hair hath stol’n the Autumn gold,
The burnished wheat-stem’s gleam;
Thou’rt shy and beautiful and bold
As was Endymion’s dream.”
John’s soul, on wings of rosy flame,
Admired and stood apart;
Oil! surely ’twere eternal shame
Such verse should win nor pelf nor fame
Ere it had won her heart.
“Thy breasts are two white Mils, oh Sweet,
With snow and roses spread;
And at their feet thy heart doth beat
Amidst its rivers red.”
And written fine in flowing hand,
And tied with ribbon green,
This poem went to swell the band
A\ hi eh liurtleth in from every land
Unto The Bullyteen!
“Thy lips are shores where coral grows
Beside a curving beach,
And where in music ebbs and flows
The warm tide of thy speech.”
Thus read the Editor and he,
The Swine who found the Pearl,
Wrote in blue pencil, wearily—
“’Tis harmless album poetry ;
Please send it to the girl.”
“And, oh! thine arms are ivory-white;
As tender-white and pale,
As where the surf, in half-moonlight,
Drives home against the gale.”
The verse returned—Ah, bitter day!
The stricken poet thrice
Cursed deep the churl whose gibe did stay
Ail hope of cash or honor—yea,
Yet followed his advice.
“Shall this fair shore a desert be,
Untilled, unwatched, unmanned!
Shall the winds blow from the sea
To woo an empty landt”
The damsel read the verse; and, oh!
Loud were the poet’s moans:
The third quatrain it shocked her so
(She had been well brought up, you know)
She went and married Jones.
VICTORIA.
HASSAN.


A First-Class
Hobby for the Boys
GIVE your boy a Brownie Camera and you open the way
-to a pastime of many delights for him. Every youngster
wishes for a Brownie, and the wish is a natural one,
because these little instruments are known and accepted every-
where as producers of first-class pictures, with a minimum of
trouble and inconvenience, and a maximum of pleasure.
Brownie Cameras are daylight loading and unloading. The
films can be developed in daylight; in fact, it’s daylight from
start to finish. And everything is so delightfully simple and
interesting that really a child of seven years could produce
successful photographs with a Brownie. At least give your son
a chance to prove his intelligence by getting him one to-day.
The results he will produce will please you to the utmost.
The No. i Brownie Camera is a marvel of compactness and
completeness. It is well made and is covered with fine quality
imitation leather, has nickel fittings, and makes square pictures
x Has a capacity of six exposures without
reloading, and weighs only Boz. The Lens is a Meniscus of
good quality, and the Shutter an Eastman Rotary.
The pii;e of the No. i Brownie Camera is only 5/-,
postage 6d. extra.
Details of other and larger Brownie Cameras are given at
the right; but if you wish for further details you should call at
one of our branches or agents and see the Cameras for yourself.
If that is not convenient, please write us direct for a free copy of
the Kodak Catalogue.
£.270
AUSTRAL DRY PLATE COMPETITION.
Full details will be found in the current
issue of the “ Australasian Photo-Review/' or a pamphlet giving
complete particulars may be had free upon application.
ghjhjhjkjhk
Get your Son
a BROWNIE
CAMERA.
ghjhjhjkjhk
No. 2 Brownie, 10/-
Makes Rectangular pictures
2iin. x 3Jin.,and has a capacity
of six exposures without re-
loading. Weighs only 13oz.
Price 10/-
Postagc 9d. extra..
No. 2a Brownie, 12/6.
Takes six or twelve pictures
2£in. x 4Jin., without reload-
ing, and weighs 21oz.
Price 12/6.
Postage 1/- extra.
No. 3 Brownie, 17/6.
Makes twelve quarter-plates,
3Jin. x 4iin., without reload-
ing'. Weighs 250 z.
Price 17/6.
Postage 1/- extra.
No. 2 Folding Brownie,
21/-
For pictures 2Jin. x 3J;in., and
makes six exposures without
reloading. Weighs lOoz.
Price 21/-
Postagre 9d. extra.
No. 2a Folding B/ewnle,
30/-
For pictures x4Jin., and
makes six or'twelve pictures'
without reloading. •,
Price 30/-
Pdetage 1/- extra.
No. 3 Folding Brownie,
37/6
Makes twelve quarter-plate
pictures, 3Jin. x 4Jin., with-
out reloading. Weighs 250 z.
Price 37/6.
Postage 1/- extra.
No. 3a Folding Brownie,
42/-
The popular postcard size,
3Jin. x siin., has a capacity
for 12 exposures without
reloading:. Price, with
Single Lens, 42/-;
Rapid Rectilinear
Lens, 50/- Postage
1/3 extra.
No. 2 Stereo Brownie,
50/-
For stereo pictures, each 3Jin.
x 2Jin., and has a capacity for
ten stereo exposures, without
reloading'. With a pair of
Achromatic Meniscus Lenses.
Price 50/-
Postagc 1/3 extra.
KODAK (Australasia) LTD.,
Incorporating: Baker
& Rouse Prop. Ltd.,
379 George St., Sydney. “The Block,” 284 Collins St., Melbourne. 37 Rundle St., Adelaide.
78-80 Queen St., Brisbane. Ruthven St., Toowoomba. Flinders St., Townsville. 346 Argent St., Broken Hill. 6 Mercer St., Wellington, N.Z.
THE
“gunrip"
Forest Devil, mw
I ■s
The Most Powerful Machine
for Uprooting Trees.
POSITIVELY the hardest work the Farmer, Settler or Squatter is called
upon to do is grubbing. The old method of uprooting dry or green
stumps and trees is now revolutionised by the introduction on the
market of the most marvellous labor=saving device for Farmers,
etc., ever invented. It is called “ THE BUNYIP FOREST DEVIL.” This
particular Forest Devil is far superior to any other Forest Devil on the
market, in that it is the very essence of simplicity in adjusting and in
manipulating. The most admirable features of “ THE BUNYIP FOREST
DEVIL ” are that it is not only light in weight and can be moved with
the greatest ease from tree to tree, where it can be rapidly fixed and
adjusted, but it is absolutely certain to accomplish almost any task set to it.
The tremendous strain which can be brought to bear with “The Bunyip Forest Devil’’
makes it imperative for the tree or stump to leave the ground entirely—roots and all, no matter
how big the tree or stump, how long it has been growing, or how firmly it be rooted.
Many “ land men,’’ once doubtful of the assertions claimed for it, are now loud in their praises of the
unbounded and entire satisfaction it lias given in their case, and in many instances they have paid for the
cost of the machine in a very short while by hiring it to their neighbors.
Write for Free Catalogue and Full Particulars.
John Cooper & Sons,
287-9 ELIZABETH STREET (Opp.
St. Francis’ Church), MELBOURNE.
ghjhjhjkjhk
ghjhjhjkjhk
Capillarine, the Moustache Producer.
DON’T LOOK A MERE BOY.
Young looks handicap you. A man must look a man to get on in the world-
boyish looks will never get you man’s work, man’s wages, or man’s respect.
CAPILLARINE ■will give you a Moustache.
The C. & A. Moustache Trainer makes the moustache a nice shape.
Worn ac night. 2/6 post free.
PRICE 10/6 a. JAR., to any address in the world in plain packages.
CRAIG & AITKEN
654 George Street, Sydney.
Established
30 Years.
-
*
A
BEARD’S
BRITISH
BUILT
BIOSCOPES
ghjhjhjkjhk
£37 lOs.
This is the'ideal Bioscope for Showmen
—guaranteed in every particular and
British built throughout !
No flicker —simple as ABC to operate.
Let us send you all particulars about
hem.
Send for our List of Second-Hand
Films. WE STOCK EVERYTHING
FOR THE 810-SHOWMAN !
JERDAN’S
“My Opticians,”
Opticians and Electricians,
393 George Street
(Facing
Royal Hotel),
Sydney,
Pre-eminent
as the Queen of Dres% Fabrics is the
LOUIS
VELVETEEN,
with all its charming lustrous
finish; draping exquisitely to suit
the-clinging fashions of the day—
yet sold at a price within the
reach of all.
DO NOT TOLERATE A SUBSTITUTE.
Every Yard you buy
should be stamped L’O'U'PS
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNIE’S
The Original and Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
-1/IJ, 2/9 & 4/0
ghjhjhjkjhk
Checks and
arrests Fever,
Croup, Ague.
The Best
Remedy
known for
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS.
Acts like a charm in
DIARRHtEA f and Is the only
spaoifia in CHOLERA and DYSENTERY.


ghjhjhjkjhk
ghjhjhjkjhk
PEBECO
does far more than ensure
whiteness of the teeth. It
counteracts the acid secretions
of the mouth, in which flourish the
bacterial ravages of the teeth.
As a breath purifier Pebeco is
invaluable. Night and morning
use of it will repay a hundredfold
in improved appearance, economy
in dental expense and better health.
PEBECO
Tooth Paste.
Of all Chemists, etc.
Bole Agent—
C Arnold 6 O’Connell St, Sydney
u. nillUlU, (Wholesale only).
ghjhjhjkjhk
yjjSta
I
I i.
* o >
' c >
llifi
Turn
-®(1 This
Button.
Pen
Fills
Itself.
THE ...
“ MODERN ”
AUTOMATIC
SELF-FILLING
FOUNTAIN
PENS.
AN innovation forfountain
pen users. Simply twist
end, hold pen in ink,
untwist, and the pen is filled.
Construction simple, no
joints to leak. The soft
rubber reservoir which con-
tains the ink is guaranteed
for five years. The most
practical self-filling pen on
the market. This pen has
met with the highest ap-
proval of users in America
and Europe.
Made in all styles of hold-
ers and points. We have
attractive propositions for
the dealer, and shall be glad
to send particulars upon re-
quest. We also manufac-
ture a complete line of
standard and safety foun-
tain pens.
Address:
Modern Pen Company,
Sole Selling Agent for
A. A. Waterman & Co.,
NEW YORK.
22 THAMES STREET,
NEW YORK, U.S.A.
If it isn’t an A. A. it isn’t a
“ MODEBN.”
ghjhjhjkjhk
FdRiS STLPUiS
1900 1904-
m
THE
BEST PIANO
for the
Australian Climate.
Obtainable from
MAX WURCKER,
99”ioi, York Street, SYDNEY.
Ana all prominent Piano warehouses in
the whole of Australasia.
kim-ftrt
r T
A It.-
REM EDY
A COBPECTIVE
OF THE
URINARY
ORGANS
ghjhjhjkjhk
IT IS
ALSO A
SPLENDID
TO /NIC
Obr&mat>/e &// Che*m /s As
f 1 CLARTOtf,HODGSON &C? I/T? II
I So/e/Jus/ra/as/dfi Agents. 73 YORK ST.SYD/iEY
JUST OUT.
Price, 12/6 Posted. 13/.
DROVERS’ GUIDE
By P. R. GORDON, J,
Late Chief Inspector o f Stock and Brands, Qmenslaiid
Containing the latest Stock Route Maps of New South
Wales and Queensland, the new Queensland Maps
containing Stock Routes,' Tanks and Dams, Main Roads,
Border Crossing Places, Bores, Trucking Yards, etc.
WATSON, FERGUSON & Co. Ltd. BRISBANE
ALCOCK’S
Billiard Tables
(:-
x»
THE business man finds recreation and respite
from the worries of the day in billiards. Then
friends meet and together enjoy the game that
calls forth skill, judgment and concentration.
On an Alcock table the balls run perfectly, the
angles are accurate and play beautifully, adding
materially to the enjoyment of the game.
In the hotel—in the club—in the home
wherever men largely congregate, there an Alcock
Billiard Table is usually found.
These are the same tables on which George
Gray, the Australian champion, first became famous
for his record breaks.
The “ Bijou ” is a favorite home billiard table,
fitted with fast running cushions, superfine billiard
cloth, and faultlessly finished.
Write for Illustrated Billiard Catalogue.
ALCOCK & CO. PTY. LTD.,
BILLIARD TABLE MANUFACTURERS,
397 George St., Sydney. 11.4 Edward St., Brisbane. Baker
Buildings, Featherstone St., Wellington. 155 Elizabeth St.
Melbourne. 7 King William St., Adelaide. Murray St., Perth!
FIREARMS
THE WORLD’S STANDARD.
mr J&i-
-' ax 4 /irv
l.
*..< I t,lL '*
j \/fce 4i "V-
Our
POPULAR PRICED RIFLES
are notable for their ACCU-
RACY, RELIABILITY and
LASTING QUALITIES.
STEVENS FIGHTING LINE,
Our Demi-Bloc and Repeating Shotguns are "Superb for Trap and Field."
All Progressive
Dealers handle
STEVENS.
Insist on our make.
Write for Catalogue to
ARTHUR H. HILL, Australian Represent-
ative for Stevens Arms and Tool Co.,
Box 86, G.P.O Adelaide, S. Australia.
Send for latest Fire-
arm, Telescope and
Stevens-Pope Cata-
logues- [7
m
AaB
All=wool unshrink*
able Socks. Stockings,
and Underwear.
There is no wear so healthy and hygienic as wool —not
a mixture of wool and cotton —but all wool.
If the name is on the socks, stockings, and underwear
you buy you will know that you have all - Australasian - wool wear,
and more that they are absolutely unshrinkable.
Further, the process makes them as soft and com-
fortable as silk. And 32*22> are made in England.
, Stockings, Socks, and Underwear for Men, Ladies, and Children.
j',7T„ r . 1,1 “** Prices. Of Men’s Outfitters, Drapers, and Stores. If your
dealer does not stock GaAory he can obtain it from his wholesale house.
JLgeut'to- difficulty write for “J«son " booklet and name of nearest
Jason Hosiery Co., Leicester, England.
9
*. &
Zaw Points
£r Inventors
Can I Obtain a Patent ?
The -quickest wav to ascertain this,
WITHOUT EXPENSE, is to write
to me describing your invention, enclosing a small sketch
where Nicety of drawing is not essential ;
all that is necessary at first is to give me YOUR IDEA.
I will at once inform j t ou whether the idea is patent-
able, and, if so, give the necessary instructions for
further procedure.
Persons desirous of obtaining really reliable advice or
information regarding Patent matters are cordially in-
vited to consult me personally or by letter. In all cases
a careful consideration of their plans, an honest opinion,
and a prompt reply may be expected.
A. J. CALLINAN, Patent Attorney,
Citizens’ Buildings, Collins Street, Melbourne.
EDISON RECORDS
by SOUSA'S BAND
‘HIS famous band, which is de-
lighting Sydney audiences at
the present time, is said to be the
greatest of its kind in the world. What
more fitting then than that it should
make records for the Edison Phono-
graph—the clearest, the sweetest, the
most natural, and the best sound-
reproducer and home-entertainer ever
produced ?
By securing your selection of the
Edison Sousa Records you can have the
beautiful playing of this great band at
your command wherever and whenever
you wish. Call on the nearest Edison
dealer and ask him to play over some
of them. Write us if you do not know
the address of a dealer, and we will tell
you that of the nearest, and also send
you the latest lists of Edison Phono-
graphs and Records.
NATIONAL PHONOGRAPH CO. OF
AUSTRALIA, LTD. Dept. 8.,
(Wholesale only) 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
r
When Marketing
do not forget the
BIRD’S CUSTARD
Powder the busy
howsewife’S never-
failing resource*
BIRD’S CUSTARD
with STEWED or
CANNED FRUITS
forms an Exquisite
Dish.
Birds
burner
Don’t Wear a
T russ.
After 30 Years’ Experience I have produced an Appli-
ance for Men, Women or Children that Cures Rupture.
I SEND IT ON TRIAL.
If you tried most everything else, come to me. Where
others fail is where I have my greatest success. Send
attached coupon to-day, and I will'send you free my
illustrated book on Rupture and its cure, showing my'
Appliance and giving you prices and names of many
people who have tried it and are extremely grateful. It
is instant relief when others fail. Remember, I use no
salve, no harness, no lies.
ms
'’he above is C. E. BROOKS, who has been
Curing Rupture for over 30 years.
If Ruptured write to him to-day.
I make it to y our measure and .send it to" you on a
strict guarantee of satisfaction, or money refunded and
I have put my price so low that anybody, rich or poor,
can buy' it,. I send on trial to.prove what I say is true.
You are the judge ; and once having seen my' illustrated
book and read it, y'ou will beas enthusiastic as thousands
of patients whose letters are now on file in my office. Fill
in this free coupon and post to-day'.
FREE INFORMATION COUPON.
C. E. BROOKS, 115 a Bank Kingsway,
, , London, England.
Please send me by post in plain wrapper your
Illustrated Book and full information about your
Appliance for the cure of rupture.
NAME
r
ADDRESS
Please write plainly'.'


m
m
3,
Try this cover—it s a
Square Tread
—much stronger than an ordinary plain cover, because it has no joins.
The common practice is to make casing and tread separately, and then
stick them together, more or less securely. But the Michelin Square Tread is
all one piece—casing and tread are moulded together.
Then there is another difference : The tread is strongly compressed.
Consequently a cut has a tendency to close up, rather than to provide a
gaping cavity for the lodgment of water and grits.
j - ... '
ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIST POST FREE ON APPLICATION.
Send for a copy to-day.
mmm
' ss * >■<
All the Leading Garages
WARNING.—Don’t buy Michelin Tyres at
less than current prices. They may
be of old manufacture. Purchase only
from our Agents.
THE BULLETIN POST CARPS
NEW SERIES—IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve, 6d. ; Packet of Ten, sd.
The Body-Building
Power of
BOVRIL
The Standardised BEEF FOOD.
fhus: If this repre-
sents the amount of
Bovril taken
, This outline dia-
gram represents
the actual
\BODY-BUILD-
ING POWER
This diagram illustrates the
actual body-building power of
Bovril, proved by recent
independent physiological
experiments to be
10 to 20 times
the amount taken.
Bovril, Ltd., hold the Royal Warrant of
Appointment to His Majesty King George V.,
an Appointment also held for many years
from the late King Edward VII.
UNDERWEAR
Made in
England
The “ BIRD MARK” on your Underwear
is a guarantee that the garments are made from
the finest Australian Lambswool and Cotton,
and in some qualities Silk is added.
The garments also have patented improve-
ments and fit the figure perfectly.
The most perfect underwear for hot weather
is the “BIRD MARK” Merino and Silk
Underwear, it will stand hard wear yet light in
weight.
Sold by all Drapers and Outfitters.
Wholesale only ;
I. & R. MORLEY and GEO. BRETTLE & CO.,
London, E.C
Ask for THE ‘ BIRD MARK * MEiUNO UNDERWEAR
The Elite .
Fa ude Cologne
%
W*pF"
£
Kt
SjHEi
• a
IDELITAS
i'fWV
'^KS^-S's'*-■ v?
;U\ •*. ‘fits'- «£ * ■/;!
JLkw< /v . %f| filial
llilltlfp
r .Wolf Fa Soi-in
•Karlsruhe
Baden
il
Triumph of
Modem Science
Obtainable from all leading establishments
THE GEM SEWING AWIi.
EVERYBODY CAN USE IT.
Repairs, Bags, Belts, Straps, Harness, Boots, Shoes; Sews
(•uojiod \aai i
z ‘|«v)
*Sg
ghjhjhjkjhk
Carpets, Canvas, Blinds, Tarpaulins
etc., etc., with a LOCK-STITC&.
Its immense value in repairs to Boots
and Shoes is now well known, and in
repairs to Bags, Belts, Straps, etc., it
is the “ Awl-you-want.” Thread from the
reel (which maybe kept in one's pocket) is
supplied continuously—a great advantage,
apparent in sewing Carpets, Canvas, Blinds, Tarpaulins, etc:
Needles are interchangeable, extra ones can always be obtain,
•d. Stout or Fine, Bent or Straight.
PRICE—Gem Sewing Awl (polished wood handle, brass
fittings, brass bobbin, a steel needles—i bent, i straight—i reel
prepared cotton), 2s. complete, post free. Extras: Cotton,
cd., post free. Needles (stout or fine, straight or bent), 4d.,
post free; 2 for 7d., set of 8 for-as. Send postal note to
BTAR NOVELTY CO . 229 Collins Street. Melbourne.
THE DASZLER
Best Pocket Lamp on the market. Instantly available—
press the button and a brilliant light floods forth. Can't blow
out; no smoke, no oil. no matches. Powerful simple battery,
can be re-charged with water.. Strong case, fits the hand and
fits the pocket. A wonderful demonstration of the every-day
utility of electricity, as light is quite safe near gunpowder,
'gas, naphtha, etc. A novelty, and good fun—may be used
in a hundred mirth-provoking ways. Fitted with new 2-cell
battery {having 6 times the life of the old style 3-cell) and
new metallic filament lamp (giving a brighter light on less
current than the old carbon lamp). Lamp, complete. 65.,
post free. Extra cells when required, rs. 9a. ; bulb lamps to
fit, is. 91!., post free. Scarf-pin lights, to attach, 3s. 6d. Send
postal notes.
STAR NOVELTST CO., 229 Collins Street, Melbourne.'
ghjhjhjkjhk
“ KURLOHair-Curling Fluid. Beautiful
wavy hair is most admired. “ Kurlo ” produces
i most natural-looking waves or curls in a few
days. Very little trouble ; no tongs or pins re-
quired. “ Kurlo ” curls are not affected by fog,
sea air, heated ballrooms, etc. May be used
for Ladies’, Gent’s or Children’s hair. Neither sticky
nor greasy; makes the hair soft and silky. Bottles,
2S. 6d., post free, in plain wrapper. American Toilet
Agency, Box 466 G.P.0., Melbourne.
ghjhjhjkjhk
“GRO-A-MO” forces growth of moustache and whis-
kers. Bottles, 25., post free, in plain wrapper.
American Toilet Agency, Box 166 G.P.0., Melbourne.
Mcdicator. aizo
33 inches Ions:.
PC
%
WHAT IS CATARRH ? ,
CATARRH is inflammation of the lining
membrane of the hose and adjoining-,
passages. If this inflammation is not ar-
restee! it invades the passages which lead
from the nose to the head, ears, throat and
lungs. It injures the sight and hearing,'
destroys the sense of taste and smell, ren-
ders the breath offensive, breaks down
the affected tissues, and consumes thh
nasal cartilages. The discharge, passing
through the lungs and stomach, causes
dyspepsia, also consumption. Do you
want relief and cure! If so, try our
great remedy.
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR cures Catarrh,
Hay Fever, Catarrhal Deafness, Head-
ache, Neuralgia, Colds, Bronchitis, Asth-
ma. Write for booklet free, or send
Postal Note jos. for Medicator complete;
with 4 months treatment, post free anywhere. ,
Address: Star Novelty Co., 209-231 Collins Street*
Melbourne. (Box 466, G.P.0.)
THE DRUM
IN POSITION
(invisible*
DEAFNESS
ear-drums.
A scientific invention entirelydifferent
in construction from all other devices.
They have restored hearing
devices fai ed and medical- skill gdve-no
relief. Soft, comfortable and. invisible ;
no wire or string attachment.
Write for Pamphlet. Mention this paper.
STAR NOVELTY CO., 529 Colllni
Street, Melbourne;
“LINSEED COMPOUND” —Trade Mark of Kay
Compound Essence of Linseed for Coughs and Colds.


mi in
National Arms Co.’s 12- or 16-Gauge D.8.8.L. Gun,
reinforced l>reech, top lever, full rebounding, bar interchangeable locks, Greener cross
bolt, extension rib, left full, right modified choke, 30in. special steel barrels, pistol grip,
walnut stock, engraved, weight of 12-gauge about 6Jlb. to 71b.,
of 16-gauge to 6|lb. DELIVERED, Q £
We can supply this Gun in 20-gauge, at 14/- extra. <
We are the Sole Agents in N.S. W. for the above Gun, which has been made to our own specifica-
tions, and therefore can thoroughly recommend same as a cheap, reliable weapon.
Harrington 8 Richardson’s
5.8.8. L. Gun,
12-g a u g e, top
action, solid case
hardened locks, -
decarbonised steel barrel, 30in. pistol grip, walnut stock, weight
about o|lb. Gun can be taken apart, same as an ordinary Double
Barrel dun. Non-Ejcctor, 23/6 ; Ejector, 25/-
ghjhjhjkjhk
Postage—2/6 N.S.W.
4/8 Inter-State.
Our
Special
Snaps.
Send for our Illustrated
Sports, Fishing and
Tobacco Lists, FREE.
THE MAINE
PiFle
•Shewing Pifle hpdrT.
THE MAINE ” S.S. Rifle
designed for 22 short, long, or extra long cartridges, Rim hire. It
is a take-down, and can be taken apart easily and quickly, by simply
unscrewing the thumb-screw located underneath the fore arm. The action
used on this rifle is of the safety bolt type, and is exceedingly simple, con-
sisting of very few parts. The barrel is round, 18in. long, bored and rifled
with the same care as the military weapon, and guaranteed
accurate to 300yds. ; weight 31b., fitted with plain V back
sight
Or with Winchester Sliding Sights to 300yds.
Postage on one Riflle —1/3 N.S.W. ; 2/2 Inter-State.
12/6
15\-
■5553
REMINGTON RIFLES, No. 6 Model,
22 Calibre R.F., 20in. round blued -cg>l£S
steel barrel, weight #o/0
Or with Sliding Sights 21 -
Postage—l/6 N.S.W.
2/8 Inter-State
MICK SIMMONS, Ltd.
Head Depot, HAY MARKET, SYDNEY,
Branches Hunter St., Newcastle; 273 Darling St., Balmain ,
St., Sydney; Church St., Parramatta; 311 King St., Newtown
N.S.W.
? 197 Oxford
[1
Schute, Bell & Go.
limited
Wool Stores: Central Wharf. Produce Stores:
Quay. Offices : 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Do not sell Fat Stock,
but only Wool, Sheepskins,
Hides, Tallow, etc., and
Marsupial & Rabbit Skins.
Each head of the Company a worker
in the interests of their constituents.
Proceeds protected Trust Account
Bank of N.S.W.
There is no rival to the Gillette Safety
Razor. It is the only razor whose
blades are so hard and sharp that
stropping and honing can be entirely
dispensed with.
British made and sold everywhere.
Write for " Hints on Shaving," sent post free. Mention this paper,
GILLETTE SAFETY RAZOR, Ltd.. 17 Holbom Viaduct, London. England.
Gillette
NO STROPPING NO HONING
ghjhjhjkjhk
MEDLOW BATH, Blue Mountains, N.S.W
MAJESTIC HOTEL.
COMPLETE arrangements have been made by the new proprietor (Mr. W. H. Burgess), late of the Grand
Hotel, Melbourne, for the comfort of visitors during the forthcoming season.
Medlow Bath is an ideal resort. The crisp mountain air is a delight, and the mountains, in their
Spring garb, appeal to lovers of the picturesque. Arrangements can be made at the Hotel for motors,
carriages and riding tours.
Motor parties can be arranged any time to start from the City Office—or your own residence—direct
to the Majestic Hotel.
To pedestrians Medlow offers ever-varying attractions. The views in the mountains are superb, and
hours can be spent in walks through the Hotel grounds.
Hot-air pipes are laid in many rooms. Daily Motor trips are made from the Hotel to Jenolan Caves.
Further particulars can be obtained from the Hotel, or from the Sydney Offices, 42 Castlereagh Street.
W. H. BURGESS, Proprietor.
15he BULLETIN POST CARDS
PACKET OF TWELVE 6d. PACKET OF TEN sd.
Gold Aedal Paris 1900 9 Grand Prize St. Louis 1904
KALODERMABI
HU PREPARATIONS
F. WOLFF A JOHN, Karlsruhe and London
Modena Jelly
prepared with glycerine # honey without
oil or fat, does not grease; is most
agreeable # efficacious for preventing and allaying irritation.
Knlodermn Soap
prepared with glycerine and honey, a
most refined and delicately perfumed
Toiletsoap, the leading soap for softening $ improving the sKin.
Knlodermti Rice Powder
most popular and refined
toiletpowder. Jc/' Jc/'
Kfllodermn Sftnuing Soap
prepared with the renowned
Kaloderma Jelly undispu-
tedly the most emollient shaving soap on the marKet.
fl refined luxury at a popular price, js/" t /c/ % Jc/' JeT
Obtainable from all the leading establishments.
m
HOTELKEEPERS !
We will Accept Half Your Present
Monthly Cordial Bill in Payment
of an AUSTRAL PLANT.
PERFECT SODA WATER for Jd. per Dozen!
GINGER ALE and LEMONADE at 3d !
|gF" 3000 MACHINES IN DAILY USE.
A Postcard will briny our latest Catalogue, post free.
ECKERSLEY 8 SONS, 3 Bond Street, Sydney.
Queensland Agents —ELLIOTT, DONALDSON & DOUGLAS,
108 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1908 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 6d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, liusii Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Quadrille Call Book,
2s. Adventures of a Flirt, Is. 3d. Parlor Tricks
and Games, Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
Is 2d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is 2d post.
Equality 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted, ’sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Fiagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11 s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ss. Not Guilty (Blateh-
ford) 9d The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain for the
British 6d. How to Read Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d.. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught ,l/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is 6q.
ghjhjhjkjhk
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR "PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Hereare answered, in plain language, athou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The nevv 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
TO THE- COMMONWEALTH. “Wl
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle's
Card Games (Rules for all Gaines), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Easj, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d.
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Elements ok Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougall Topped the Score, &
Other Versus, Is 31. Tiik Gay Count, Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, os.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash, jpp - Established 25 Years .
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OP MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS A DVT.
♦
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
KEMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Ur, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
Is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d post. I>r. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions of the King,
Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. 6d. Secret
History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter. Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan’s Prf.emasonry Exposed, Key to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. "V est Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post.
Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Bead Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevassf.’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s (id posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.


NAUSEOUS RISINGS, LOSS OF APPETITE, LISTLESSNESS AND
DEBILITY BANISHED—BILE BEANS RESTORE HEALTH AND ENERGY.
I
>» •*
**B
! Haussmann. who oives
, his good, general health to
\ Bile Beans.
Mr. WI. B. HAUSSMANN, of Water Street,
Highgate Hill, Brisbane, says: “ Bile Beans
have proved a most excellent medicine in ridding
me of the wretched symptoms of, and suffering
incidental to, biliousness. My occupation being
of a sedentary nature, my liver at times becomes
disordered and the bowels very much constipated.
My whole system seems to become clogged and
sluggish, making me feel drowsy, listless, with
consequent disinclination for work. My appetite
at these times is fickle, and nasty nauseous risings
(water-brash) are very unpleasant.
“Bile Beans, however, suit my constitution
admirably. A dose or two of this splendid medi-
cine puts new life and energy into me. They act
gently, though searchingly, on the bowels, banish
the nasty sluggishness and bilious sensations,
and tone-up and regulate my whole system
generally.
“As I say, Bile Beans act on me splendidly,
and so long as they do this I am quite content to
keep them as my general family medicine, and do
not wish to experiment with other medicines.”
All mothers should always keep by them a box of Bile Beans ; they are
good for children, and especially for young girls entering upon womanhood,
for they are mild in action, do not gripe, and are easy to take. Bile Beans
are a proved remedy for all liver and digestive ailments. A dose or two in
time may save pounds in doctors’ bills.
THE STANDARD FAMILY MEDICINE.
When feeling at all out-
of-sorts a few doses of
Bile Beans soon put one
right, and are often the
means of preventing a
serious illness. Bile Beans
end headache, constipa-
tion, biliousness, liver
disorder, indigestion, flat-
ulence, bad breath, general
debility, sickness, poor
blood, anaemia and female
ailments. Sold by all
chemists and stores at
Is. 2s. 9d. per box.
u
eans
Beauty’s Favourite.
The article wbicb excels all otHers
in improving* tbe beauty of tbe sßin
is naturally and deservedly beauty’s
favourite. Xbis bas been tbe
acknowledged and honoured
position beld by Pears’ Soap for
nearly 120 years. It won, and bas
maintained tbat position by virtue
of its complete purity, and by tbe
possession of tbose special emollient
properties wbicb soften, refine,
and impart natural colour to tbe
skin. No otber soap possesses
tbese qualities in sucb a pre-
eminent degree as
PEARS
Matchless for the Complexion.
The Beloved.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
T TNTO the judgment seat of God
E A soul came simpering, sleek and prim.
On earth a smooth, cramped path he d
trod,
And slander could not prey on him.
His little morals mean and white
Were all unsmirched by flagrant sin ,
He’d lived secluded day and night,
Far from the harsh world’s cark and din.
And God cried, “You are well content,
And confident, my man, I see.
The soul I fashioned fair, and lent
To you, comes shrivelled back to me.”
“Lord,” smirked the soul, “it is, I ween,
A soul as pure as it was when
I had it from Thy hand. It’s been
Kept from the taint of common men.
“All sins of sense I have disdained ;
Nor tempted been by leaping lust.
From all transgression I’ve abstained.
I have, I think, fulfilled my trust.
“I’ve lived with caution, scorning all
The hateful lures of which men tell.
I’m neither rake nor prodigal,
Rut seemly and respectable.”
God answered: “All untouched you bring.
From that My world’s stern work and
strife,
The soul I made a lordly thing
To spur you when I gave you life!
“You’ve stuck it in a sordid clod,
You’ve built it from the sun with wood,
What are you, who thus deem that God
Prefers a man withouten blood?
“You’ve grinned secure where Mine own men
’Mid sin and sorrow fought and fell— —
You louse in ermine !. .. Get you then
Now to pollute My neighbor’s hell !”
The soul slunk forth. I heard it moan.
And then came proudly, stained and scarred,
A soul that stood before the throne
Erect and stalwart, breathing hard.
And God laughed. “Brother Mine, I wis,
Ye’ve fought the fight and dared the death.
Ye’ve lived to shame mine enemies,
And never drawn a caitiff breath.”
The soul cried out, “Despite Thy will,
I’ve lived a sinful man, O God.
The good I’ve planned has turned to ill.
lam abased. Spare not Thy rod !
“Not faithful, I. My cursfed pride
The soul I bring has stained with lust —
This soul of mine for which Christ died,
In Whose high death I dare not trust!
“I’ve lived a selfish beast, and blind;
And I could weep to have lived so,
In pity for poor humankind
I might have succored there below.
“I owe Thee wife and children dear;
But others fallen by the way
I have not loved enough ; so here,
O God, I am abased, I say !”
God stooped and kissed him on the brow.
Amazed, he lay on God’s deep breast.
The angels whispered gladly, “Now,
He giveth His beloved rest!”
MAORILAND.
FRANK MORTON.
Nifty.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ASTOUTISII, middle-aged gentleman,
with a new-chum flush, and wearing
a tourist’s suit, entered the bar rev-
erently, as one might visit a deceased grand-
parent, closed the door softly, and went,
almost tip-toe, along the wall to the far end
of the counter, where he leaned across to
Patrick Mackaboy, and breathed confidenti-
ally, in a grave voice:
“Will you be so good! Three-pennyworth
of colonial ale, if you please.”
Patrick Mackaboy dished up the beer, the
scarlet sinner drank it in three rhythmical
waves, murmured a tender “Good day!” and
went back along the wall. He closed the
doors after him ever so carefully.
“Did you get on to it?” asked the barman,
dancing a few coppers in his left hand.
“That was an Excellency, a vice-regal rep.
You didn’t know him out of his black satin
pantlets, his cocked cady, and gilt edging,
lie is a distinguished connoisseur of the var-
ious beers indigenous to this country, and
keeps a bicycle merely to lean up against
things while he invades adjacent licensed
premises, to improve his acquaintance with
the many quaint and curious concoctions of
hops in common use at the Antipodes. That’s
his private vagary. The bike is so accus-
tomed to this class of district visiting that
it cannot be persuaded to pass a pub till it
has leaned on a wall for two minutes, while
his Excellency steps inside to further his
studies. His nibs has fourteen family man-
sions, nine titles, and fifty thousand a year,
and he paid for his pint with four ha’pennies
and one gangrened penny that he found
when the plumbers shifted the sink last
Tuesday.”
Patrick Mackaboy dipped his Excellency’s
“empty,” put an effective polish on it with
three quick turns of the wrist, and added
it to the queue of resting tumblers.
“You should tack a label on it, and set it
up as a souvenir,” said Long, indicating the
utensil.
“Tush!” answered the barman. “You
could collect a crate of pewters under vice-
regal patronage in any of the non-sumptuous
suburbs. All the same, Wilks kept a simi-
lar trophy on the centre shelf, ’twixt the
green chartreuse and the red curacoa —
which liqueurs, by the way, Wilks would
never sell. ‘Them’s not drinks,’ says he,
‘them’s orneyments!’ The glass was suit-
ably inscribed, and Wilks was as proud ot
it as a defunct King Billy of his bombazine-
bound coffin with a brass door-knocker.
But Wilks wasn’t exactly a man, being more
in the way of a mayor.
“This Stephen Wilks was the first to em-
ploy me as a public practitioner. But Chap-
ter I. dates many years prior, going back to
that time when Chesterfield had a piquant
name like Hogan’s Bones, and was a mere
scrap of scrub country, important only in
being midway between somewhere else and
a third place.
“Wilks set up an oasis in the desert, a
private-and-confidential pub in the scrub, a
three-roomed shanty, with a tin-lined pack-
ing-case on its side for a bar-counter, and a
little red keg and one dozen best pint panni-
kins for fittings and ware, Mrs. Wilks was
the firm’s distiller and chemical expert.
That woman had gifts. She could inveigle
a pint of scathing whisky out of a knuckle
of redgum. Not for Susan the dilly busi-
ness of calling spirits from the vasty deep
when there were leagues of grass-tree scrub
-—the original rum-shrub —at her back door,
from which she could cull a rain-barrel of
Scotch as old as Fergus, son of Ere, or a
tank of the finest scrimmings rum, three
bites of which would infuse equatorial
snakes into the whiskers of ye mariners of
England named Haco Bjerregaard and Hans
Heemskerck.
“Have you seen the fleas of Gippsland
well up out of its great empty snaces to in-
terrogate the amateur camper? When Wilks
opened for trade at Hogan’s Bones there
was not a Christian in sight, hearing, or ex-
pectation, but within four hours tnree men
were fighting an impartial triangular mill
on the grass, another was howling chanties
in the bar, and a fifth was following a pro-
cession of lemon-yellow mudfish headfirst
down Stephen’s kitchen chimney. And
after that such evidences of civilisation were
never absent from the shanty at Hogan’s
Bones.
“Later came Nifty. Why Nifty_ I don’t
know, unless it was for a certain finicky gen-
tility that showed through the mould and
bristles. Nifty was something from Ox-
ford, Eng., according to his own statement,
but the assertion lacked verification, nobody
caring to scrape him for brands. It would
appear that Nifty had not washed himself
since 1884, a.d. ; he was stale and doggy, a
flea-bitten little man, a litter of whiskers and
chips, wearing some few clothes that would
have blown off him in a gale. No local au-
thority had yet seen him in possession of a
hat and boots, and if he had sober moments
they were too momentary to excite remark.
He carried a swag that looked like the nest
of a Skye terrier, and in his dexter hand he
bore his begging bowl, a chipped teacup,
which he presented for whisky with a look
of supplication and mute agony that once
wrung real tears from a navvies’ ganger.
“When Nifty first came to Hogan’s Bones
he had money—much of it. Riches were
very evanescent at Stephen Wilks’s rum
homelet, and Nifty brushed off £45 in 11
days, but never quite awoke to consciousness
of the fact. He remained as a sort of pen-
sioner, thrusting out his battered cup, and
getting odd helpings of hand-made liquor.
“Eventually it became the duty of Stephen
Wilks to push away Nifty’s face when it
projected its dumb suffering across the bar.
At any hour of the day you might rely upon
seeing Wilks rushing Nifty off his unlicensed
premises, and forcefully kicking him into
the atmosphere. On occasions he would
follow up his advantage, and kick the out-
cast 12 times in 20 paces. But that made
little difference to Nifty. He was like the
dog smothered in dun, dreary whiskers
whom you try to pelt home on Sundays, and
who cannot bring himself to believe that
in your heart you really mean it. Nifty
would be back at the bar on Stephen’s heels,
without prejudice, humbly solicitous, the
begging bowl jigging in his tremulous hand,
his voice keyed to the last anguished appeal
of a dying man.
“When Susan and Steve cut off eleemosy-
nary rum Nifty got about among the cus-
tomers, begging drips, the smallest contribu-
tion thankfully received. ‘A drop apiece,
for the love of God, gentlemen,’ was his little
plea—‘a drop apiece for a neighbor in hell.’
And each man would slop a little in to res-
cue the perishing.
“Of course Nifty was useful about the
house. If a wayfarer chanced along with
wealth to dissipate, Nifty was there to ex-
pedite the dissipation, justifying Stephen and
Suze in announcing the complete exhaustion
of a cash deposit sooner than might other-
wise have seemed fair and feasible.
“When other measures failed, Nifty was
in the habit of trying to win the sym-
pathies of the pecunious with a document
drawn from an impressive blue envelope.
The document was ragged and spattered, and
only legible in spots, but it had the inscrip-
tion of a reputable firm of Melbourne solici-
tors, and a careful student might gather
that the writer was happy to enclose a
cheque for £5O, in accordance with instruc-
tions received by his firm from Lord Ed-
ward’s solicitors; furthermore, that this
money would enable the recipient to present
himself at the Melbourne office, where the
firm would rejoice to place matters more
fully before him, prior to taking such steps
as might be necessary to hasten his return
to England, a course rendered urgent by
Lord Edward’s sudden and lamentable death.
“As a rule this letter was received with
derision, sometimes with violence, it being
looked upon as a gross and palpable attempt
at a confidence trick on the part of a grubby
vagrant, in whom any effort at imposition
was a flaring insult to simple common-sense, i
Nobody believed Nifty was the interested
person; and the ’beat was never sober
enough to shoo the cockchafers out of his
rank, encumbering hair, let alone offer a
lucid explanation.
“So Nifty lingered on at Wilks’s, a
mouldy spook, with an uncanny stare and a
disconcerting shiver, harassed by flies, an
eyesore by day, and a disturbance by night.
“Before Wilks had quite resolved on dras-
tic measures, however, a stranger arrived,
and, taking complete possession of Nifty,
dragged him off, hosed him at the nearest
township with a water supply, dressed him
in a manner becoming a human being, and
left for parts unknown, still towing his
prize.
“Nifty’s swag and his important docu-
ment, with a few letters, were left in the
possession of Wilks; and Stephen, after a
(Continued on next page.)


IT 1$ A MATTER
OF FACT
That Backache, Rheumatism, Gout, Neu-
ralgia, Bladder Troubles, Stone, Gravel,
Lumbago, Sciatica, Nervousness, Dizzi-
ness are caused by Diseased Kidneys.
Many men and
women look upon such
symptoms as back-
ache, dizziness, head-
ache, dimness of sight,
urinary disorders,
gravel, swelling of the
limbs, rheumatism,
sleeplessness, ner-
vousness and neural-
gic pains as trifling
complaints But no
symptom of kidney
disorder is trifling, for
it shows that the kid-
neys are failing to
filter the poisonous
uric acid from the
blood, and this is the
beginning of most
diseases. At the first
sign of kidney dis-
order, begin with
Doan’s Backache Kid-
ney Pills, the great
kidney medicine.
Doan’s Pills cure
every form of kidney _
trouble, because they are a special medicine for the kidneys.
4 Piet
x
Z>\l2
l
St
T
or y
■
r */
Jlr-THBITaBtE
Sydney Man’s Cure.
Mr. James Higgins, 97 Great Buckingham Street, Redfern, Sydney
says : “ Some time ago I was taken very badly with kidney trouble. Id in
know how to account for it, unless several accidents were to blame, lco -
suited three doctors, and underwent treatment, and each one, do
me good, advised me to go into the hospital for an operation. I iey • y
case was almost hopeless, and that an operation was my only chance as one
of the kidneys was in a very diseased state. I took medicines of allgjte,
the empty bottles alone being worth a considerable amount. Lveiytl g
failed, and I was in such pain and misery that I did not care 1 .
died. I had severe pains in the back, giddiness, headaches and scal4in• " n “®*
I was completely done up, and scarcely able to lift anything. r X .
appointed for the operation, when a friend asked me if I had yet tried Dca
Backache Kidney Pills. He told me he knew of a man who was as bad as 1
was, and had been cured completely and for good by these pills. I post-
poned the operation, and commenced using Doan s Backache Kidney P>.
A fortnight later I returned to work, and the men there could not believe
that the change they saw in me would ever have been possi. e. A • • „
doubt it is wonderful. lam quite cured, and as ht for work as a man eou •
Six years later Mrs. Higgins says: ‘ the above statement is t
everv word, and I can now add the important fact tnat my husband is still free
of every distressing symptom of kidney trouble. His lasting cure is proof P -
tive that Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills will cure serious kidney
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are sold by all chemists and storekeepers ays 9d.
per bottle (six bottles 15s. 3d.), or will be posted on receipt of price by .tost
McClellan Co., 76 Pitt Street, Sydney. ■
I
I
BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS
Piles.
Cured After Years of Suffering-
Proof that Doan’s Ointment
Will Cure Piles.
Mr. Peter A. Dunn, late postmaster at
Moruya, now living with his daughter, who is
postmistress at Gordon, Sydney, writes: I
furnish you herewith, unsolicited, my experi-
ence of the use of Doan’s Ointment. lam in
my 63rd year, and was for 20 years subject to
itching piles. The pain and irritation of this
complaint were very hard to bear iweive
years ago a chemist at Deniliquin told me that
he had tried various remedies, but did not
know of a cure for this complaint. Therefore,
I tried but few remedies, as I had no hope of
ever finding a cure, especially as the few 1 did
try proved ineffectual. A man told me he had
suffered terribly, and was advised to use Doan s
Ointment. He did so, and it cured him ; and
that man would have given £2O to anyone who
guaranteed to cure him as Doan s Ointment
did. I obtained a pot of the Ointment and
used it as directed, night and morning. I only
used half a pot and was free of the complaint,
and remained so for some months. I felt a
slight return of the irritation, however, and
applied the ointment for a few days, when I
was perfectly cured. I sent a box to an elderly
clergyman, a friend of mine, who had suffered
for 30 years, and he has since informed me
that a few applications cured him. His doctor
had prescribed remedies which burned him
dreadfully, but did not cure. The same doctor
told him that he did not think there was a.
cure as he could not cure himself. A natural
repugnance to reveal private matters is over-
come by the hope of doing a good turn to other
sufferers You can therefore publish this, and
those who see it may rely on it being a truth-
ful statement.” ,
Six years later, Mr. Dunn says : Doan s
Ointment proved a permanent cure for itching
piles in my case. I have been free of this
torturing ailment for the past six years.
Doan’s Ointment is sold by all chemistsand
storekeepers at 2s 9d. per pot, or will be
oosted on receipt of price by Foster-McClellan
Co., 76 Pitt Street, Sydney
But, be sure you get DOAJN b.
puzzled study of the papers, put them and
the matted swag carefully aside, and resumed
the even tenor of his sway.
“When I, Patrick Mackaboy, appear as
head dispenser of feverish liquors to Stephen
Wilks, the latter has ‘Esq.’ tripping after
his monicker, and is president of the shire.
Hogan’s Bones has become Chesterfield, and
the uncertified pub has developed into the
Chesterfield Family Hotel, the leading hos-
telry in a prosperous area devoted to Cow
and.Sheep.'_... ....... ,
1 “By this- time- Stephen Wilks-has become •
a fat, prosperous leader -of -public-
pauncheous pilot, and Suze is a perfect lady
in everything but appearance and behavior,
and-no longer worms rum
, From fungus or fruits,
From old rags or from roots, '
Grass, cabbages, pickles, old bedding or boots,
as one of our miner poets succinctly puts
it. . .
“I had been making up the prescriptions
at Chesterfield for about 15 months when
the local Agricultural Association held its
first show. The show was an event in the
history of Chesterfield, and the opening was
to be a Tremendous Ceremony. It was
felt that something extra and special was
necessary. A Governor was called for. His
Excellency responded under pressure.
“When it was known that his Lordship,
her Ladyship and suite were coming to open
up the cow competition, Chesterfield went a
little off its moral base; it began to wander
in its mind, and influential residents started
running aimlessly. A diseased activity af-
fected the town, and Stephen Wilks was the
fussiest of the bunch.
“As president of the shire and of the Agri-
cultural Association, it would devolve upon
Stephen to receive his Ex.; as landlord of
the most- superior two-storeyed hash plant m
sight, it must be his duty to entertain the
vice-regal pilgrims. Stephen responded like
a patriot, and Suze, who already possessed
the seven worst dresses, ordered seven more.
“I taught President Wilks the few, well-
chosen words, and Steve started teaching
himself etiquette and acrobatics. Receiv-
ing governors, according to the preconceived
ideas of Mr. Wilks, was almost entirely a
matter of walking backwards.
.“But it was all a waste of effort. When
the- Governor landed on the platform, and
Stephen Wilks stepped up to do the honors,
his nervousness suddenly paralysed lam, and
he stood inert, gaping like an idiot, his
mouth rounded to a small black hole in an
expanse of dead-white face, liis eyes blinking
fatuously, and the perspiration rolling down
from his dome-like brow in succeeding lip-
Pl For a terrible minute, the dumb, terrified
President faced the silent, expectant Gov-
ernor. Just when it seemed that, someone
would shriek, or that the vice-regal party
would blow up with a horrid report as a
result of-strain, a youth stepped up briskly,
- and saved the situation. The hero was a
billiard-marker in a rival establishment,
-with no status whatever. He went to the
front. , , ~ .
‘“Glad t’ see yeh, Guvner,’ he said. Wel-
come, yer Ladyship. This way to the
lUt ‘‘He* led his Lordship, her Ladyship and
suite out to the carriages, bundled them m,
and piloted the party to the luncheon room,
the brass band, the president of the shire
and the local notabilities following in silent
ignominy.
“Stephen Wilks never got over that.
Never once during the stay of the guberna-
torial crowd did he quite recover his presence
of mind. On all occasions, when he and
his Excellency were thrown together, Steve
degenerated into a disconcerting exponent
pf blithef.
“On the morning of the second day, when
the opening ceremony was over, and the
Governor and suite were examining a pen
of adipose pigs, a shrill voice broke in upon
their meditations, piping excitedly: xour
Excellency is welcomed to Ghesterheld.
Chesterfield is proud of the honor you do it,.
proud to receive and to entertain you, as
representing’
“It was the president of the shire, who,
under some unaccountable impulse, had burst
into eloquence, and was reciting my tew
well-chosen words out of season. But he
went no further. He shut up as suddenly
as he had opened out, and stood shuddering
at his own temerity, his loony gaze bent upon
the disconcerted personage with terrible in-
tensity.
“Before the vice-regal visit was ended
Stephen Wilks had got the Governor down.
His Lordship was making quite a bearable
speech on the importance of Cow, till he en-
countered Steve’s dull, hypnotic eye and his
fatuous face, and then he slumped into sput-
tering incoherence. After that he seemed
pitifully conscious of the nearness of the
abashed president, and the dog-like fixity ot
the presidential eye.
“Wherever his Excellency turned he en-
countered the Eye. It got on his nerves.
He lost his grip, and became shaky and ir-
ritable. Finally it needed all the efforts ot
the suite to keep him from running openly
from the hateful glare, and on brief occa-
sions, when partially withdrawn from pub-
licity, he fell into fits of dancing exaspera-
tion over the haunting stupidity of YV ilks,
and cursed the president of the slnre in
squeals that could be heard all over the
Chesterfield Family Hotel. _
“The hour of departure came. His Ex.,
her Ex. and another grand dame were in
the open landau before the hotel; the suite
was in a drag a few feet behind. But the
Governor had not finished with Stephen Wilks.
At the last moment Steve came blundering
from his door. In one hand he carried an
outrageous horse-collar swag, tattered and
dusty ; in his other a packet of papers and
a conspicuous blue envelope. Stephen surged
to the side of the landau, his nervous lunacy
strong upon him, and dropped the deplorable
bundle into the vehicle. He held out the
pa ß”jj iem ’ s yours,’ he jerked. ‘You left ’em
with me when I kep’ me shanty at Hogan s
Bones. Most important they are hiost im-
P °“His Excellency arose. He glared into
the eyes of the president of the shire, his
rubicund countenance assumed a faint helio-
trope tint. Then, with a fierce word, he
kicked the noisome swag fair and haid into
the face of Mr. President,. and, turning,
hissed with viperish politeness:
“ ‘Will you drive on, please !
“Stephen went down on the road, with
the horse-collar swag about his neck, and
he sneezed three times in the thick dust ot
the receding vehicles. . ,
“Three days later that souvenir appeared
on the shelf between the chartreuse and the
curacoa. There was an inscribed silver
breastplate on it, implying that Stephens
house was under vice-regal patronage. Ihe
trophy was Nifty’s old begging bowl.
EDWARD DYSON.
Second Engineer.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I’VE played at Love a lot o’ times, and
Love has played with me —
Hear the good old engines throbbing.
Hear the thumping of the Sea!
Far away in Melbourne city I can see the
lamps aglow — r
Hark the kind old engines singing! Hear
the grand old rollers go!
She’d a face just like a pansy, velvet-soft
and dreamy-eyed;
How she swore, at Mordialloc, to be faithful
till she died!
Peachy-pink and golden headed, shed be
“faithful, fond and true” ,
“Yah!” the cynic shaft is shouting. "Y ip-
i-addy, Hoo-hoo-hoo!”
So I studied engineering, so I fagged for my
exam;
Keeping straight and keeping sober—like the
bally ass I am.
She’d a mouth a man to madden; Lord, liei
lips were soft as cream
Shift that cursed ventilator! Can’t you
hear, unless 1 scream?
Yep, your humble started saving. In his
stuffy bunk at nights
Painted pictures, rosy-colored, of the mar-
ried man’s delights—
Little cottage in the suburbs, little garden
out at Kew. ( .
“Yow,” the steam-escape is snorting—“Sissh-
nah, hissh-nah, boo-hoo-hoo!”
Guess it comes of novel reading, when you re
in your downy days; ( „
Poring over cheap romances, smoking “fags,”
and seeing plays;
Building angels in your fancy out of woman-
flesh till you
Think, like fools who thought before you,
one and one make one, not two.
Lesson one ‘in mathematics, which your
“second”'took to sea,
With his pansy-faced Ideal, now of blessed
memory.
And he crammed his head with Knowledge,
and he saved his scanty screw
For a cottagfe in the suburbs — U Y ip-i-addy!
Hoo-hoo-hoo !”
Yep, her name it may be Clara, or it might
be Jane —or Kate.
Sonny dear, ’twill matter nothing , when
you find “you’ve met your fate.”
Why, her soul might be as vacant as a back
suburban lot, ,
You will see a Grecian goddess in the virgin
you have got.
But you’ll never see how Nature, cunning
hoyden, hides the hook,
Till the bait has caught your fancy—as was
written in the book,
And embellished on the cover, when the
Comedy began
Of the velvet-breasted Woman and the hairy-
chested Man.
I was coming home from China, to be mar-
ried in the spring
(Hear the rude eccentrics chortle! Hear
the rowdy engines sing!),
With her portrait in my locker, and my
bank-book fairly fat,
And that picture in my fancy of the cottage
and the cat.
But the steward brought a letter, as we
made our shore-lines fast,
From my pansy-featured idol, who had “met
her fate” at last ...
He was married, so she told me, but his
wife was “ such a shrew” ;
They’d decided on eloping; ’twas the only
thing to do!
Would I think she was a sinner? Would I,
later on, forgive?
Find some woman better-suited to my wor-
ship—dear—and live?
She was sorry ! Felt I loved her! “But
we womenfolk are queer”...
And her new-found fate had money— l was
second engineer!
[ Where’s the waste, you ugly blighter?
Where’s your oil-can got to now?
Think you've struck a floating picnic on
this un-anointed scow?
Think you’ll loaf around my gratings? By
the Sacred Vestals Nine,
I’ll destroy your sweet illusions —same as
Someone busted mine.]
Yep, I’m “second” still, an’ hearty, and my
whisky-colored nose
Is a beacon unto sinners, as the shipping
office knows.
But I’m friendly to the ladies; and the en-
gine-room can tell
That I’ve learnt the ways of boilers, that
I’ve learnt ’em fairly well.
Yep, her face was like a pansy, and the
sequel runs, of course,
That the jay and she were married, after
doings an’ divorce;
Hear the little valves a-cooing, “ They’ll be
faithful, fond and true,”
While the cynic shaft is shouting—“Yip-i-
-addy! Hoo-hoo-hoo!”
Hear the good old engines grieving! Hear
the mourning of the Sea!
And “I’ll thank you, for the spanner; there’s
a nut here working free.”
And to-night in Melbourne city, I’ll be
drinking bottled beer
With some light o’ love that’s waiting for a
Second Engineer.
VICTORIA.
E. J. BRADY.


W esting'house
Oil Engine
For STATIONARY
and MARINE
PURPOSES
No
Carburetta
or
Vaporiser.
ghjhjhjkjhk
Ignition
Apparatus
makes the following claims upon your attention :
1— It uses cheap lamp oil (such as kerosene), and other residuals.
2 The oil is injected directly into the cylinder, thus dispensing with unre-
liable and inefficient vaporisers.
3 It is very simple in construction, there being no electric ignition or other
complicated mechanism.
4 Its speeds are such that electric generators and centrifugal pumps may
be coupled direct.
5 No skilled labor is required, the supply of fuel and lubricant being all
the attention necessary.
FULL PARTICULARS FROM
The Westinghouse Brake Company of Australasia Ltd.,
14 MARTIN PLACE. SYDNEY.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
agents for -——
Murray’s Eng-fish Ale. Club Rum.
Dog Head Stout. King’s Liqueur Whisky.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
BTnnefqrlS
Magnesia 1
I
s
The Physician’s
Cure for ,Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see that
“Dinneford &Co.”
is on every bottle
and label.
ghjhjhjkjhk
'he Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headacl
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affecti
THE BESSES O’ THE POCKET
The Besses o* the Barn
have gone, but the
Besses o' the Pocket
have come to stay.
CRACKAJACK Senior "
ACK
(SENIOR)
s =
Built t
o Beat the Band
if The Reeds are made
of Beil Meta], and
are Tuned to Perfec-
tion.
Crackaiack Mouth Organs
J ear- made in six styles
Crackajack Professional, 40 Reeds, 3/- Crackajack Double, 40 Reeds . ,
Crackajack Senior, 20 Reeds ... 2/- Boss Cracker, 20 Reeds ......
Crackajack Junior, 20 Reeds ... 1/6 Crackajack Cadet, 20 Reeds . . ,
SOLD
Sole Agents
EVERYWHERE
!/•
1 1-
6d.
-ALLAN & CO. PROP. LTD.
Melbourne
For BILIOUSNESS S' INDIGESTION
%
m
U
o
m
Plt-LS
CONSTIPATION CONQUERED.
There lies the vital secret where so many diseases and ailments are
concerned— Constipation must be conquered, or normal organic action,
freedom from liver and kidney troubles, and from stomach and bowel
disorders, is not possible.
Cockle’s Pills conquer Constipation of the most stubbornly aggressive
kind; because they strengthen and stimulate and revivify the organs,
which they cleanse and regulate with such consummate ease and efficiency.
The whole system is freed from the wholesale disturbance due to the con-
stipated tendency, from blood impurities, from effete matter, from lurking
disease. Yet Cockle’s Pills act so gently and pleasingly that the most
delicate persons like them
PLAIN TRUTHS
on the subject of Health are the only acceptable pronouncements.
Exaggerated statements end by convincing no one—rather do they create
suspicion, and give rise to doubt. But you may safely listen to universal
opinion. The public have for long known the value of Beecham’s Pills
in cases of disorder and irregularity of the Stomach, Bowels, Liver and
Kidneys. Thousands of men and women know, from glad experience
that an occasional dose of Beechain’s Pills will promote the healthy action
of these organs, and that all the good things heard on every hand
ABOUT
this medicine are true in the strictest sense. Most people desire a
specific that can be depended upon at all times to correct the vital
functions when they are out of order and Nature calls for some assist-
ance. Such a preparation may be found in BEECHAM’S PILLS.
They will put you right and keep you up to the mark. They have
proved an immense boon to many thousands of men and women
all over the world. It is just as certain that they will benefit you—
and this is a plain truth you may accept and act upon in regard to
BEECHAM’S
PILLS.
Sofd everywhere in boxes , price 1/1\ (56 piiis) and 2/3 (168 pttim),
- _ _
The’Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
in uie since 1690.
CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist lor its liistory—the book 5b free—or write
S- GREEN, 210, Lambeth Load, London, Eng.
CANT
B
BEAT
RIAR
PIPES
ALL SHAPES
J/each post free 1/2
i Quality Not Better
in a
Guinea Pipe
MICK SIMMONS
SYDNEY.
T STOREKEEPERS4 TOBACCONISTS
SHOULD SEND FOR OUR TRADE LIST
s
During the Progress of our GREAT
SALE we are offering the following
Usual Price. Sale Price
Double - Barrelled, Breech - loading
Guns, engine-turned rib. left bar-
rel full choke, right modified, re-
bounding locks and pistol grip.
Trial .. £5 2 6 £3 12 6
Single-Barrel Duck Sum, large bore,
to kill at 100yds. Trial ..8 5 0 5 10 0
Single-Barrel, Hammerless, Breech-
loading Guns, choke bore, excellent
stock. Trial 310 0 117 6
Double - Barrelled, Breech - loading
Gums with Greener patent wedge
fast cross bolt, choke bore, walnut
stocks pis'ol grip, patent-cartridge
ejector. Trial 5 10 0 4 17 6
Special, Pigeon Guns, with patent
sid ■ Clips; tile cut rib, top lever,
choke bore, specially selected wal-
nut stock, Greener patent wedge
fast cross bolt. Trial .. .. 10 0 0 710 0
Mauser Principle Rifles, 22 calibre,
kill at 300yds. Trial .. .. 15 0 13 6
Guns by All Makers in Stock.
Write -for Special Sale Catalogue.
ALL ORDERS FOR GUNS AND RIFLES DE-
LIVERED CARRIAGE PAID TO ANY ADDRESS
IN AUSTRALASIA.
tSmall Arms Co.
Gunsmiths & Imporiers-
-242-244 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE
QQ
Bag
Borated Goldenseal
Compound
r A cafe and simple remedy for
Bronchitis, Catarrh, Hay Fever '
Inflammations, Irritations, ulcer-
ations of ALL mucous membranes
or linings of the nose, throat,
stomach or urinary organs.
AT CHEMISTS
IVky not cure yourself
Treatise wl th jach bottle
or mailed on request.
Tie Eras Chemical Co.
Cbrinoati, Ohio,
U.S.A.
•‘LINSEED COMPOUND” for Coughs and
Colds. Loosens phlegm. Allays irritation.
rpHE BULLETIN POST CARDS. -New
JL Series. IV.. V.. VI. Packet erf Twelve, 6d ;
Packet ot Ten, sd. Posted free to any address!
Special rates to agents. The Bulletin Office,
214 George Street, Sydney.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIAIiLT'S INDIAN CIfiARFTTFS
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, NerronsComtfis
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
A Cp’B INDIAN Cl OAK.
relieved by GIUMAULT „ „„
F/' TFS. Fnd frti all Chrrnists.
I
Superior to
INJECTIONS
iCUBEBS and
I COPAIBA.
Cure£ the same
diseases without
inconvenience
in
48 hours
Each Capsule bears the name HW*
OTJ
LINSEED COMPOUND’’ for Coughs and
Colds. Relieves Asthma a*d difficult breathing.
FROOTOIDS
Cure Headache, Indigestion, Constipa-
tion, and Biliousness. They are elegant
in appearance and pleasant to take;
they are immensely more valuable than
an ordinary aperient; they remove from
the blood, tissues, and internal organs,
waste poisonous matter that is clogging
them and choking the channels that lead
to and from them. Frootoids are
THE BEST
aperient medicine to take when any
Congestion or Blood Poison is present,
or when Congestion of the Brain or
Apoplexy is present or threatening. They
have been tested, and have been proved
to afford quick relief in such cases when
other aperients have not done any good
at all. Frootoids are absolutely un-
rivalled for
FAMILY
use ; their beneficial effects are evident
by the disappearance of headache—a
bright cheery sense of perfect health
taking the place of sluggish depressed
feelings, by the liver acting properly, and
by the food being properly digested.
Frootoids are a very economical
MEDICINE.
A dose taken once a week, at bed-time,
is highly beneficial. They acrt splendidly
on the Liver. A constipated habit of
body will be completely cured if the
patient will on each occasion, when
suffering, take a doge of Frootoids in-
stead of an ordinary aperient. The
sufferer thus gradually becomes quite
independent of Aperient Medicines.
Price 1/6. From all Chemists and
Medicine Vendors, and W. G. Hearne &
Co., Ltd., Geelong, Victoria.
YOU REQUIRE A STIMULANT.
Doctors recommend Port Wine for Invalids.
V.A.V.BudgerreePort
Nature’s Gift.
fills this prescription.
(Refuse substitutes.)
Don’t think it is too cheap.
Buy a bottle and compare
with other brands at a greater
cost.
The secret is—we grow,
make and bottle this Wine,
thereby saving you middle-
men’s profits.
If your hotel or store does
not stock “ Budgerree Port,”
send us a P. 0.0. for 18s.,
and we will forward you a
dozen properly packed with-
out delay.
VICTORIAN ASSOCIATED
VINEYARDS CO.,
Growers and Merchants,
Basement, 78 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Ami at 19 McKILLOP STREET, MELBOURNE, VIC.


Prompt Relief
r^ 0 ® Rheumatism I
LUMBAGO, SPRAINS,
AND ALL ACHES ANB PAINS
Assured by Applying
si JACOBS
h—OIL—M
Sold everywhere. IBHm
LONE HAND offers you the Glad
Hand. It’s the Right Hand, and a week
er publication there are none left.
REFUSE DESTRUCTION.
Combined Electricity and
Destructor Undertakings
are becoming general. The “ HEENAN ” Patent is the last thing in
Refuse Destruction—
PAYS FOR ITSELF IN A FEW YEARS.
Full particulars on application to
AUSTRALASIAN
AGENCY:
T. K. STEANES, 39 Pitt Street, Sydney. [4
" Fibro-Cement’
WHAT IS IT? Portland Cement, rein-
forced with Asbestos. It has the strength and
durability of concrete, and the cool and fire-proof
quality of Asbestos. It is, therefore, strong,
light, durable, cool, ant- and fire-proof, artistic in
appearance.
Made in Slates for roofing, Red, Grey and Purple,
in Sheets Bft. 2£in. x 4ft. for Walls, Lining
and Ceilings.
Used by the Australian Governments ; also for covering
Churches, Villas, Homesteads, Dairies, Silos, ete.
Write for Illustrated Catalogue “ B ” to Sole Importers,
JAMES HARDIE & CO.,
Circular Quay West, SYDNEY; and
581-583 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
The bulletin post cards-Kw
Series, IV.. V., VI. Packet of Twelve, 6d:
Packet of Ten. sd.
WOLFE S -
THe Family Stimulant. SCHNAPPS
FOR MEN
FOR WOMEN
“SENTINEL
JUNIOR.”
SIMPLE
ENGINE.
DIRECT
DRIVING
A DYNAMO
FOR
ELECTRIC
LIGHTING
PURPOSES.
EH
SEND FOR CATALOGUES.
SENTINEL
J. WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR, Ltd
AIR COMPRESSORS
Special Designs to meet all requirements.
HIGH-SPEED ENGINES
Economical in Steam Consumption and Thoroughly Reliable.
HIGH-PRESSURE STEAM TRAPS
The Best High-Pressure Trap now in use.
Feed Water Filter 8 Oil Separator
Simple and Efficient, with large Filtering Surface.
82 Pitt Street, Sydney; Prell’s Buildings, Mel-
boarne; and 228-50 Elizabeth Street, Brisbane.
ENGINEERS,
IRON FOUNDERS,
BOILER MAKERS,
&Gij &Ca
MEPHAN FERGUSON
PROPRIETARY LIMITED.
Governing Directors
(MEPHAN FERGUSON
(ROBERT SHAND
Head Office and Works:
Gordon
ms
on
Manufacturers of
WROUGHT IRON,
CAST IRON, and
STEEL PIPES.
Central [%%%f
ELECTRICAL MINING MACHINERY SPECIALISTS.
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LIMITED
AGENTS_FOR_ERNEST SCOTT & MOUNTAIN, LIMITED, GATESEND ON TYNE, ENGLAND.
-162 Clarence St.
t en
ENGINEERS’ HIGH-GRADE
%
'
;■"« <***.-&,
Mac Kine Tools.
Screwcutting Lathes, Milling Machines and Cutter,
Grinders, Shaping, Drilling, Screwing, Sawing and
Grinding Machines, in stock, and
ALL ENGINEERS’ REQUISITES. Write for Price Lists.
ParKe & Lacy Co. Ltd.
-
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
60 Clarence St., Sydney
CHERSEN ROCK DRILLS.
The 2fin. Machine is Specially Designed for Sloping, and can be Easily Handled by One Man.
The 3?in. is Particularly Adapted for Sinking and Crosscutting, combining Simplicity with Great Strength.
ghjhjhjkjhk
Latest Installations.
GREAT BOULDER, W.A.
OROYA=BROWN HILL, W.A.
NORTH END DEVELOPMENT, W.A.
OTRIA TUNNEL, N.Z., and
BROKEN HILL MINES.
ft
'.^rar.v
NOTE—The Cost of Maintenance
with this Drill is Next to
N.
Nothing. Write for Authenti-
cated Proofs.
Sole
Agents:
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD.,
263 George Street, Sydney.
525 Collins Street, Melbourne.
